
Normand C(1).

Author information:
(1)Trinity College, University of Dublin, Dublin 2, Ireland. normandc@tcd.ie

Health technology assessment processes aim to provide evidence on the 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of different elements of health care to 
assist setting priorities. There is a risk that services that are difficult to 
evaluate, and for which there is limited evidence on cost-effectiveness, may 
lose out in the competition for resources to those with better evidence. It is 
argued here that end-of-life care provides particular challenges for evaluation. 
Outcomes are difficult to measure, can take place over short time scales, and 
services can be difficult to characterise as they are tailored to the specific 
needs of individuals. Tools commonly used to measure health care outcomes do not 
appear to discriminate well in the end-of-life care context. It is argued that 
the assumption that units of time of different quality of life can simply be 
added to assess the overall experience at the end of life may not apply, and 
that alternative perspectives, such as the Peak and End Rule, might offer useful 
perspectives.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133112000229
PMID: 23079301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Lancet. 2012 Nov 24;380(9856):1840-50. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)60919-2.
Epub  2012 Oct 16.

Global burden of cancer in 2008: a systematic analysis of disability-adjusted 
life-years in 12 world regions.

Soerjomataram I(1), Lortet-Tieulent J, Parkin DM, Ferlay J, Mathers C, Forman D, 
Bray F.

Author information:
(1)Section of Cancer Information, International Agency for Research on Cancer, 
Lyon, France. soerjomatarami@iarc.fr

Comment in
    Lancet. 2012 Nov 24;380(9856):1797-9.

BACKGROUND: Country comparisons that consider the effect of fatal and non-fatal 
disease outcomes are needed for health-care planning. We calculated 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) to estimate the global burden of cancer 
in 2008.
METHODS: We used population-based data, mostly from cancer registries, for 
incidence, mortality, life expectancy, disease duration, and age at onset and 
death, alongside proportions of patients who were treated and living with 
sequelae or regarded as cured, to calculate years of life lost (YLLs) and years 
lived with disability (YLDs). We used YLLs and YLDs to derive DALYs for 27 sites 
of cancers in 184 countries in 12 world regions. Estimates were grouped into 
four categories based on a country's human development index (HDI). We applied 
zero discounting and uniform age weighting, and age-standardised rates to enable 
cross-country and regional comparisons.
FINDINGS: Worldwide, an estimated 169·3 million years of healthy life were lost 
because of cancer in 2008. Colorectal, lung, breast, and prostate cancers were 
the main contributors to total DALYs in most world regions and caused 18-50% of 
the total cancer burden. We estimated an additional burden of 25% from 
infection-related cancers (liver, stomach, and cervical) in sub-Saharan Africa, 
and 27% in eastern Asia. We noted substantial global differences in the cancer 
profile of DALYs by country and region; however, YLLs were the most important 
component of DALYs in all countries and for all cancers, and contributed to more 
than 90% of the total burden. Nonetheless, low-resource settings had 
consistently higher YLLs (as a proportion of total DALYs) than did high-resource 
settings.
INTERPRETATION: Age-adjusted DALYs lost from cancer are substantial, 
irrespective of world region. The consistently larger proportions of YLLs in low 
HDI than in high HDI countries indicate substantial inequalities in prognosis 
after diagnosis, related to degree of human development. Therefore, radical 
improvement in cancer care is needed in low-resource countries.
FUNDING: Dutch Scientific Society, Erasmus University Rotterdam, and 
International Agency for research on Cancer.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)60919-2
PMID: 23079588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Health Econ. 2013 Oct;22(10):1272-81. doi: 10.1002/hec.2879. Epub 2012 Oct
19.

Valuing QALY gains by applying a societal perspective.

Bobinac A(1), van Exel NJ, Rutten FF, Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management and Institute for Medical 
Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Health Econ. 2023 Sep;32(9):2168-2170.

Interpreting the outcomes of cost utility analyses requires an appropriately 
defined threshold for costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). A common view 
is that the threshold should represent the (consumption) value a society 
attaches to a QALY. So far, individual valuations of personal health gains have 
mainly been studied rather than potentially relevant social values. In this 
study, we present the first direct empirical estimates of the willingness to pay 
for a QALY from a societal perspective. We used the contingent valuation 
approach, valuing QALYs under uncertainty and correcting for probability 
weighting. The estimates obtained in a representative sample of the Dutch 
population (n = 1004) range from €52,000 to €83,000, depending on the 
specification of the societal perspective. The scale sensitivity was weak, 
however.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2879
PMID: 23080321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Br Med Bull. 2012;104:21-39. doi: 10.1093/bmb/lds027. Epub 2012 Oct 18.

Peripheral arterial disease: a literature review.

Abdulhannan P(1), Russell DA, Homer-Vanniasinkam S.

Author information:
(1)Leeds Vascular Institute, Leeds General Infirmary, Leeds, UK. 
peshang81@yahoo.co.uk

INTRODUCTION: Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is a common vascular condition 
that affects both quality of life and life expectancy with an increased risk of 
cardiovascular events.
SOURCES OF DATA: A literature search was carried out of Pub-Med, MEDLINE, the 
Cochrane Library and Google Scholar from the establishment of these databases up 
to February 2012. The search was performed by using the keywords 'peripheral 
arterial disease' and one of the following words: 'management', 
'investigations', 'risk factors', 'epidemiology', 'revascularization', 
'cryoplasty', 'atherectomy' and 'gene therapy'. Studies were limited to those 
published in English language.
AREAS OF AGREEMENT: Aggressive risk factors modification is needed to reduce 
cardiovascular-related mortality in PAD patients.
AREAS OF CONTROVERSY: Choice of endovascular or surgical intervention remains 
controversial in an ever-evolving field.
GROWING POINTS: There is a rapid expansion of endovascular technologies aiming 
to improve the effectiveness of this modality.
AREAS TIMELY FOR DEVELOPING RESEARCH: The advances in the fields of gene therapy 
and therapeutic angiogenesis mean these are potential future treatments. Tissue 
engineering is a developing area and aims to produce grafts with similar patency 
and infection profiles to those of autologous material. Further elucidation of 
the pathophysiology of atherosclerosis is required to provide new targets for 
pharmacotherapy.

DOI: 10.1093/bmb/lds027
PMID: 23080419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e46914. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046914. Epub 2012
Oct  17.

Formation of phosphoglycosides in Caenorhabditis elegans: a novel 
biotransformation pathway.

Soukup ST(1), Spanier B, Grünz G, Bunzel D, Daniel H, Kulling SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Safety and Quality of Fruit and Vegetables, Federal Research 
Institute of Nutrition and Food, Max Rubner-Institut, Karlsruhe, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) has become a widely used model 
to explore the effect of food constituents on health as well as on life-span 
extension. The results imply that besides essential nutrients several flavonoids 
are able to impact the aging process. What is less investigated is the 
bioavailability and biotransformation of these compounds in C. elegans. In the 
present study, we focused on the soy isoflavone genistein and its metabolism in 
the nematode as a basis for assessing whether this model system mimics the 
mammalian condition.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: C. elegans was exposed to 100 µM genistein for 48 hours. The 
worm homogenate was extracted and analyzed by liquid chromatography (LC). 11 
metabolites of genistein were detected and characterized using LC electrospray 
ionization mass spectrometry. All genistein metabolites formed by C. elegans 
were found to be sugar conjugates, primarily genistein-O-glucosides. The 
dominant metabolite was identified as genistein-7-O-phosphoglucoside. Further 
interesting metabolites include two genistein-di-O-glycosides, a 
genistein-O-disaccharide as well as a genistein-O-phosphodisaccharide.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our study provides evidence for a novel 
biotransformation pathway in C. elegans leading to conjugative metabolites which 
are not known for mammals. The metabolism of genistein in mammals and in C. 
elegans differs widely which may greatly impact the bioactivity. These 
differences need to be appropriately taken into consideration when C. elegans is 
used as a model to assess possible health or aging effects.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046914
PMCID: PMC3474776
PMID: 23082135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


460. Biotechniques. 2012 Aug 14;53(3):182-188. doi: 10.2144/000113913.

Improving the limit of detection for Sanger sequencing: A comparison of 
methodologies for KRAS variant detection.

Davidson CJ(1), Zeringer E, Champion KJ, Gauthier MP, Wang F, 
Boonyaratanakornkit J, Jones JR, Schreiber E.

Author information:
(1)Life Technologies, Foster City, CA, USA.

Fluorescent dye terminator Sanger sequencing (FTSS), with detection by automated 
capillary electrophoresis (CE), has long been regarded as the gold standard for 
variant detection. However, software analysis and base-calling algorithms used 
to detect mutations were largely optimized for resequencing applications in 
which different alleles were expected as heterozygous mixtures of 50%. 
Increasingly, the requirements for variant detection are an analytic sensitivity 
for minor alleles of <20%, in particular, when assessing the mutational status 
of heterogeneous tumor samples. Here, we describe a simple modification to the 
FTSS workflow that improves the limit of detection of cell-line gDNA mixtures 
from 50%-20% to 5% for G>A transitions and from 50%-5% to 5% for G>C and G>T 
transversions. In addition, we use two different sample types to compare the 
limit of detection of sequence variants in codons 12 and 13 of the KRAS gene 
between Sanger sequencing and other methodologies including shifted termination 
assay (STA) detection, single-base extension (SBE), pyrosequencing (PS), high- 
resolution melt (HRM), and real-time PCR (qPCR).

DOI: 10.2144/000113913
PMID: 23083368


461. J Urol. 2012 Dec;188(6):2114-9. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2012.08.005. Epub 2012
Oct  18.

Economic and humanistic consequences of preventable bladder tumor recurrences in 
nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer cases.

Lee CT(1), Barocas D, Globe DR, Oefelein MG, Colayco DC, Bruno A, O'Day K, 
Bramley T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan 
48109-5946, USA. ctlee@umich.edu

Comment in
    Urol Oncol. 2014 Oct;32(7):1089.

PURPOSE: Perioperative intravesical chemotherapy following transurethral 
resection of bladder tumor has been underused despite level 1 evidence 
supporting its performance. The primary objective of this study was to estimate 
the economic and humanistic consequences associated with preventable recurrences 
in patients initially diagnosed with nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using population based estimates of nonmuscle invasive 
bladder cancer incidence, a 2-year model was developed to estimate the number of 
preventable recurrences in eligible patients untreated with perioperative 
intravesical chemotherapy. Therapy utilization rates were obtained from a 
retrospective database analysis and a chart review study of 1,010 patients with 
nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer. Recurrence rates of nonmuscle invasive 
bladder cancer were obtained from a randomized clinical trial comparing 
transurethral resection of bladder tumor with or without perioperative mitomycin 
C. Costs were estimated using prevailing Medicare reimbursement rates. Quality 
adjusted life-year estimates and disutilities for complications were obtained 
from the literature.
RESULTS: The model estimated that 7,827 bladder recurrences could be avoided if 
all patients received immediate intravesical chemotherapy. It estimated an 
economic savings of $3,847 per avoidable recurrence, resulting in an aggregate 
savings of $30.1 million. The model also estimated that 1,025 quality adjusted 
life-years are lost every 2 years due to preventable recurrences, resulting in 
0.13 quality adjusted life-years (48 quality adjusted days) lost per avoidable 
recurrence. This translates into 0.02 quality adjusted life-years (8.1 quality 
adjusted days) lost per patient not receiving immediate intravesical 
chemotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Greater use of immediate intravesical chemotherapy in the United 
States has the potential to substantially decrease the economic and humanistic 
burdens of nonmuscle invasive bladder cancer.

Copyright © 2012 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2012.08.005
PMID: 23083857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. J Pediatr Surg. 2012 Oct;47(10):1951-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2012.06.008.

Prenatal detection and postnatal management of an intranasal glioma.

Okumura M(1), Francisco RP, Lucato LT, Zerbini MC, Zugaib M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Hospital das Clínicas da Faculdade de Medicina da 
Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo 05403-900, Brazil. mariaokumura@hotmail.com

Nasal gliomas are rare benign congenital midline tumors composed of heterotopic 
neuroglial tissue. They have potential for intracranial extension through a bony 
defect in the skull base. Neuroimaging is essential for identifying nasal 
lesions and for determining their exact location and any possible intracranial 
extension. Computed tomography is often the initial imaging study obtained 
because it provides good visualization of the bony landmarks of the skull base; 
it is not, however, well suited for soft tissue imaging. Magnetic resonance 
imaging has better soft tissue resolution and may be the best initial study in 
patients seen early in life because the anterior skull base consists of an 
unossified cartilage and may falsely appear as if there is a bony dehiscence on 
computed tomography. A frontal craniotomy approach is recommended if 
intracranial extension is identified, followed by a transnasal endoscopic 
approach for intranasal glioma. A case is presented of a huge fetal facial mass 
that was shown by ultrasound that protruded through the left nostril at 33 weeks 
of gestation. Computed tomography of the neonate suggested a transethmoidal 
encephalocele. Magnetic resonance imaging showed a huge mass occupying the 
nasopharynx and the nasal cavity and protruding externally to the face but ruled 
out bony discontinuity in the skull base and, therefore, any intracranial 
connection. The infant underwent an endoscopic resection of the mass via oral 
and nasal routes and pathologic examination revealed intranasal glioma.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2012.06.008
PMID: 23084215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Nutr Res. 2012 Sep;32(9):648-58. doi: 10.1016/j.nutres.2012.07.002. Epub
2012  Aug 22.

Resveratrol role in cardiovascular and metabolic health and potential mechanisms 
of action.

Xu Q(1), Si LY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Southwest Hospital, Third Military Medical 
University, Shapingba District, Chongqing 400038, China.

Resveratrol is a polyphenolic flavonoid found in a diversity of plants, 
especially berry fruits and is a popular nutritional supplement. It is known to 
have antioxidant, anti-inflammatory, and anticarcinogenic properties. Recently, 
additional evidence has been found that resveratrol is beneficial to metabolic 
and cardiovascular health and may increase the life expectancy of various 
organisms. These biological effects are widely believed to be due to the ability 
of resveratrol to activate silent mating-type information regulation 2 homolog 
1, a nicotinamide adenine dinucleotide-dependent deacetylase. However, other 
research has shown that 5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated kinase and not 
silent mating-type information regulation 2 homolog 1 may be the target of 
resveratrol. A recent study reported that resveratrol directly inhibits cyclic 
adenosine monophosphate-specific phosphodiesterases and then activates 
5'-adenosine monophosphate-activated kinase. Therefore, the mechanism underlying 
the diverse nutritional and therapeutic activities of resveratrol needs to be 
further explored. Furthermore, the optimal dose and possible adverse effects of 
resveratrol in humans are completely clear. The purpose of this review is to 
present some of the newly discovered biological effects of resveratrol, 
including autophagy and stem cell regulation, and research opportunities for the 
application of resveratrol in cardiovascular and metabolic health. Described 
herein is the recent understanding of the mechanism of action of resveratrol and 
future research directions to ascertain the potential of this flavonoid that is 
present in food.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nutres.2012.07.002
PMID: 23084637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Lancet Oncol. 2012 Nov;13(11):e501-8. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70461-8.
Epub  2012 Oct 19.

Tackling cancer burden in the Middle East: Qatar as an example.

Brown R(1), Kerr K, Haoudi A, Darzi A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer, Department of Surgery and Cancer, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2012 Nov;13(11):1076-8.

Cancer prevalence is increasing in the Middle East, partly because of increased 
life expectancy and adoption of western lifestyle habits. Suboptimum delivery of 
health care also contributes to late diagnosis and poor survival of people with 
cancer. Public awareness of cancer risk is frequently low and misconceptions 
high, thereby preventing patients from seeking treatment early and constituting 
a substantial barrier to improvement of cancer outcomes. Screening programmes 
might have low uptake in Arab populations because of social and health beliefs 
about cancer. This review outlines the opportunities available to Middle Eastern 
countries and their emerging economies to learn from global experiences in 
cancer care, service provision, and research partnerships. The Middle East has 
begun to develop several health-care transformation programmes. Qatar, in 
particular, has published a National Health Strategy, in which cancer is one of 
the main commitments; this Strategy provides the focus of this review. The 
development of effective health-care strategies and evidence-based medicine 
directly linked to innovative cancer research is needed to improve cancer care. 
Although the full extent of the proposed solutions are not necessarily 
implementable in all Middle Eastern countries, wealthy states can lead 
derivation of population-specific approaches that could have effects throughout 
the region. Key challenges are outlined-namely, human capacity and training, 
subspecialisation of services, building on international cancer research 
initiatives, and the need for earlier diagnosis and awareness in the population. 
Countries in the Gulf Region (ie, countries bordering the Persian Gulf, 
including Iran, Iraq, Kuwait, Saudi Arabia, Bahrain, Qatar, UAE, and Oman) need 
to address these challenges to be at the forefront of integrated cancer care and 
research and ensure that the latest innovations and best possible care are 
delivered to their populations.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70461-8
PMID: 23084766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Rev Psiquiatr Salud Ment. 2013 Apr-Jun;6(2):80-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.rpsm.2012.07.002. Epub 2012 Aug 29.

Burden of disease in adolescents and young people in Spain.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Catalá-López F(1), Gènova-Maleras R, Alvarez-Martín E, Fernández de Larrea-Baz 
N, Morant-Ginestar C.

Author information:
(1)Centro Superior de Investigación en Salud Pública (CSISP), Conselleria de 
Sanitat, Generalitat Valenciana, Valencia, España. ferran_catala@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVE: This article analyses the burden of disease in adolescents and young 
people in Spain in 2008.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A cross-sectional population-based study. We estimated 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) by sex and cause for subjects aged 15-29 
years. Data sources were used: 1) National death records by age, sex and cause; 
2) Population data (both in July 2008); and 3) Estimates of the disability 
pattern for European countries with very low mortality.
RESULTS: In 2008, adolescents and young people lost 786,479 DALYs (414,346 in 
males). Non-communicable diseases generated 661,282 DALYs (84% of the total). 
The main specific causes of disease burden were: unipolar depression (16% of 
DALYs), alcohol use disorders (11%), migraine (9%), bipolar disorder (7%), 
schizophrenia (6%), road traffic accidents (5%) and drug addiction disorders 
(5%).
CONCLUSIONS: The burden of disease expressed in DALYs can define the loss of 
health in adolescents and young people. At these ages, health promotion and 
protection are essential to prevent the onset of disease in adulthood.

Copyright © 2012 SEP y SEPB. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rpsm.2012.07.002
PMID: 23084798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. Curr Biol. 2012 Nov 20;22(22):2140-3. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2012.09.021. Epub
2012  Oct 18.

Longer life span evolves under high rates of condition-dependent mortality.

Chen HY(1), Maklakov AA.

Author information:
(1)Ageing Research Group, Department of Animal Ecology, Evolutionary Biology 
Centre, Uppsala University, Norbyvägen 18D, 752 36 Uppsala, Sweden.

Aging affects nearly all organisms, but how aging evolves is still unclear. The 
central prediction of classic theory is that high extrinsic mortality leads to 
accelerated aging and shorter intrinsic life span. However, this prediction 
considers mortality as a random process, whereas mortality in nature is likely 
to be condition dependent. Therefore, the novel theory maintains that condition 
dependence may dramatically alter, and even reverse, the classic pattern. We 
present experimental evidence for the evolution of longer life span under high 
condition-dependent mortality. We employed an experimental evolution design, 
using a nematode, Caenorhabditis remanei, that allowed us to disentangle the 
effects of mortality rate (high versus low) and mortality source (random versus 
condition dependent). We observed the evolution of shorter life span under high 
random mortality, confirming the classic prediction. In contrast, high 
condition-dependent mortality led to the evolution of longer life span, 
supporting a key role of condition dependence in the evolution of aging. This 
life-span extension was not the result of a trade-off with reproduction. By 
simultaneously corroborating the classic results [8-10] and providing the first 
experimental evidence for the novel theory, our study resolves apparent 
contradictions in the study of aging and challenges the traditional paradigm by 
demonstrating that condition-environment interactions dictate the evolutionary 
trajectory of aging.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2012.09.021
PMID: 23084993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Prog Neuropsychopharmacol Biol Psychiatry. 2014 Jan 3;48:287-94. doi: 
10.1016/j.pnpbp.2012.09.016. Epub 2012 Oct 17.

Immune system and glucose metabolism interaction in schizophrenia: a chicken-egg 
dilemma.

Steiner J(1), Bernstein HG, Schiltz K, Müller UJ, Westphal S, Drexhage HA, 
Bogerts B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Magdeburg, Magdeburg, Germany; Center 
for Behavioral Brain Sciences, Magdeburg, Germany. Electronic address: 
johann.steiner@med.ovgu.de.

Impaired glucose metabolism and the development of metabolic syndrome contribute 
to a reduction in the average life expectancy of individuals with schizophrenia. 
It is unclear whether this association simply reflects an unhealthy lifestyle or 
whether weight gain and impaired glucose tolerance in patients with 
schizophrenia are directly attributable to the side effects of atypical 
antipsychotic medications or disease-inherent derangements. In addition, 
numerous previous studies have highlighted alterations in the immune system of 
patients with schizophrenia. Increased concentrations of interleukin (IL)-1, 
IL-6, and transforming growth factor-beta (TGF-β) appear to be state markers, 
whereas IL-12, interferon-gamma (IFN-γ), tumor necrosis factor-alpha (TNF-α), 
and soluble IL-2 receptor (sIL-2R) appear to be trait markers of schizophrenia. 
Moreover, the mononuclear phagocyte system (MPS) and microglial activation are 
involved in the early course of the disease. This review illustrates a 
"chicken-egg dilemma", as it is currently unclear whether impaired cerebral 
glucose utilization leads to secondary disturbances in peripheral glucose 
metabolism, an increased risk of cardiovascular complications, and accompanying 
pro-inflammatory changes in patients with schizophrenia or whether immune 
mechanisms may be involved in the initial pathogenesis of schizophrenia, which 
leads to disturbances in glucose metabolism such as metabolic syndrome. 
Alternatively, shared underlying factors may be responsible for the 
co-occurrence of immune system and glucose metabolism disturbances in 
schizophrenia.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pnpbp.2012.09.016
PMID: 23085507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2013 Feb;39(1):83-93. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1328936. Epub
 2012 Oct 21.

Massive posttraumatic bleeding: epidemiology, causes, clinical features, and 
therapeutic management.

Lippi G(1), Favaloro EJ, Cervellin G.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Patologia e Medicina di Laboratorio, U.O. Diagnostica 
Ematochimica, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria di Parma, Italy. glippi@ao.pr.it

Bleeding typically results as a consequence of derangements of primary 
hemostasis, secondary hemostasis, or both, and can be dramatically amplified by 
the presence of other predisposing conditions, especially inherited bleeding 
disorders. Life-threatening hemorrhages are, however, almost exclusively caused 
by penetrating wounds, blunt traumas of chest and abdomen, suicide attempts, 
amputations, bone fractures with concomitant injury to internal organs and blood 
vessels, and shearing forces from sudden rotation, violent flexion, extension, 
or deceleration injuries. The pathogenesis of posttraumatic bleeding is complex 
and multifaceted. The most dramatic phenomenon that always accompanies major 
hemorrhages is the abrupt and considerable loss of intravascular volume, that 
further leads to hypovolemic shock, also known as hemorrhagic shock, culminating 
with peripheral ischemia, especially in those tissues where oxygen delivery is 
more critical (i.e., central nervous system and myocardium). The mortality rate 
of severe posttraumatic bleeding can be as high as 50%, especially when an 
appropriate treatment is not established in a timely manner. The damage control 
sequence basically entails a four-step approach including damage control 
surgery, damage control resuscitation with fluid restoration, and hemocomponents 
administration, as well as correction of the coagulopathy with platelets, 
antifibrinolytic (e.g., tranexamic acid), and/or procoagulant agents such as 
fresh frozen plasma, prothrombin complex concentrate, or recombinant-activated 
Factor VII.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1328936
PMID: 23086540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 2013 Jun;48(6):985-96. doi: 
10.1007/s00127-012-0606-6. Epub 2012 Oct 21.

Modelling the cost-effectiveness of pregabalin versus usual care in daily 
practice in the treatment of refractory generalised anxiety disorder in Spain.

De Salas-Cansado M(1), Álvarez E, Olivares JM, Carrasco JL, Ferro MB, Rejas J.

Author information:
(1)Trial Form Support Spain, C/Arturo Soria, 336, 7º Izda, 28033, Madrid, Spain. 
marina.desalas@pfizer.com

PURPOSE: To model the cost-effectiveness (CEA) of the use of pregabalin versus 
usual care (UC) in outpatients with refractory generalised anxiety disorder 
(GAD) treated in daily practice in mental health settings in Spain.
METHODS: This CEA model used data extracted from a 6-month prospective 
non-interventional trial: the Amplification of Definition of ANxiety (ADAN) 
study, which was conducted to determine the cost-of-illness in GAD subjects. 
Refractory subjects were those who reported persistent symptoms of anxiety and 
showed suboptimal response in the Hamilton-anxiety scale (HAM-A ≥ 16) after a 
standard dose regimen of anxiolytics other than pregabalin, alone or in 
combination, over 6 months. The pregabalin arm was documented with data 
extracted from patients who received pregabalin in the study for the first time, 
added or replacing the existing therapy. In the UC arm, treatment might include 
one or more of the following: a serotonin selective reuptake inhibitor, a 
serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitor, other anti-depressants, a 
benzodiazepine or an anti-epileptic drug other than pregabalin. The time horizon 
of the modelling was 6 months in the base-case scenario, and the National Health 
System perspective was chosen to calculate costs. Effectiveness was expressed as 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, which were derived using the EQ-5D 
questionnaire, at baseline and end-of-trial visits. Results of the CEA model was 
expressed as an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per QALY gained. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis using bootstrapping techniques was also 
carried out to obtain the cost-effectiveness plane and the corresponding 
acceptability curve.
RESULTS: Data from a total of 429 subjects per arm (mean HAM-A score 25.7) 
meeting eligible criteria for inclusion in CEA modelling were extracted from the 
original trial. Compared with UC, pregabalin (average dose 218 mg/day) was 
associated with significantly higher QALY gain; 0.1209 ± 0.1030 versus 
0.0994 ± 0.0979 (P = 0.003), but increased healthcare costs as well; 
<euro>1,272 ± 1,240 versus <euro>1,070 ± 1,177 (P < 0.069) and drug costs 
<euro>525 ± 252 versus 219 ± 211 (P < 0.001), resulting in an ICER of 
<euro>15,804/QALY (95 % CI 6,661; 37,186) for healthcare costs and 
<euro>15,165/QALY (7,947; 31,754) when drug costs were considered alone. A total 
of 94 % of re-samples fell below the threshold of <euro>30,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: This evaluation modelling suggests that pregabalin may be 
cost-effective in comparison with UC in outpatients with refractory GAD treated 
in mental healthcare settings in daily practice in Spain.

DOI: 10.1007/s00127-012-0606-6
PMID: 23086587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Demography. 2013 Apr;50(2):545-68. doi: 10.1007/s13524-012-0159-z.

The contribution of smoking to black-white differences in U.S. mortality.

Ho JY(1), Elo IT.

Author information:
(1)Population Studies Center, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA 
19104-6298, USA. yjho@sas.upenn.edu

Smoking has significantly impacted American mortality and remains a major cause 
of morbidity and mortality. No previous study has systematically examined the 
contribution of smoking-attributable deaths to mortality trends among blacks or 
to black-white mortality differences at older ages over time in the United 
States. In this article, we employ multiple methods and data sources to provide 
a comprehensive assessment of this contribution. We find that smoking has 
contributed to the black-white gap in life expectancy at age 50 for males, 
accounting for 20 % to 48 % of the gap between 1980 and 2005, but not for 
females. The fraction of deaths attributable to smoking at ages above 50 is 
greater for black males than for white males; and among men, current smoking 
status explains about 20 % of the black excess relative risk in all-cause 
mortality at ages above 50 without adjustment for socioeconomic characteristics. 
These findings advance our understanding of the contribution of smoking to 
contemporary mortality trends and differences and reinforce the need for 
interventions that better address the needs of all groups.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-012-0159-z
PMCID: PMC3606656
PMID: 23086667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. Clin Infect Dis. 2013 Feb;56(4):587-97. doi: 10.1093/cid/cis887. Epub 2012
Oct  19.

The clinical and economic impact of genotype testing at first-line 
antiretroviral therapy failure for HIV-infected patients in South Africa.

Levison JH(1), Wood R, Scott CA, Ciaranello AL, Martinson NA, Rusu C, Losina E, 
Freedberg KA, Walensky RP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 
02114, USA. jlevison@partners.org

BACKGROUND: In resource-limited settings, genotype testing at virologic failure 
on first-line antiretroviral therapy (ART) may identify patients with wild-type 
(WT) virus. After adherence counseling, these patients may safely and 
effectively continue first-line ART, thereby delaying more expensive second-line 
ART.
METHODS: We used the Cost-Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS Complications 
International model of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease to simulate a 
South African cohort of HIV-infected adults at first-line ART failure. Two 
strategies were examined: no genotype vs genotype, assuming availability of 
protease inhibitor-based second-line ART. Model inputs at first-line ART failure 
were mean age 38 years, mean CD4 173/µL, and WT virus prevalence 20%; genotype 
cost was $300 per test and delay to results, 3 months. Outcomes included life 
expectancy, per-person costs (2010 US dollars), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (dollars per years of life saved [YLS]).
RESULTS: No genotype had a projected life expectancy of 106.1 months, which with 
genotype increased to 108.3 months. Per-person discounted lifetime costs were 
$16 360 and $16 540, respectively. Compared to no genotype, genotype was very 
cost-effective, by international guidance, at $900/YLS. The cost-effectiveness 
of genotype was sensitive to prevalence of WT virus (very cost-effective when 
prevalence ≥ 12%), CD4 at first-line ART failure, and ART efficacy. 
Genotype-associated delays in care ≥ 5 months decreased survival and made no 
genotype the preferred strategy. When the test cost was <$100, genotype became 
cost-saving.
CONCLUSIONS: Genotype resistance testing at first-line ART failure is very 
cost-effective in South Africa. The cost-effectiveness of this strategy will 
depend on prevalence of WT virus and timely response to genotype results.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/cis887
PMCID: PMC3552524
PMID: 23087386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Front Neurol. 2012 Oct 18;3:140. doi: 10.3389/fneur.2012.00140. eCollection 
2012.

The value of glioma extent of resection in the modern neurosurgical era.

Hardesty DA(1), Sanai N.

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurological Surgery, St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical Center, 
Barrow Neurological Institute Phoenix, AZ, USA.

OBJECTIVE: There remains no general consensus in the neurosurgical oncology 
literature regarding the role of extent of glioma resection in improving patient 
outcome. Although the value of resection in establishing a diagnosis and 
alleviating mass effect is clear, there is less certainty in ascertaining the 
influence of extent of resection (EOR). Here, we review the recent literature to 
synthesize a comprehensive review of the value of extent of resection for 
gliomas in the modern neurosurgical era.
METHODS: We reviewed every major peer-reviewed clinical publication since 1990 
on the role of EOR in glioma outcome.
RESULTS: Thirty-two high-grade glioma articles and 11 low-grade glioma articles 
were examined in terms of quality of evidence, expected EOR, and survival 
benefit.
CONCLUSION: Despite limitations in the quality of data, mounting evidence 
suggests that more extensive surgical resection is associated with longer life 
expectancy for both low- and high-grade newly diagnosed gliomas.

DOI: 10.3389/fneur.2012.00140
PMCID: PMC3474933
PMID: 23087667


473. Clin Cases Miner Bone Metab. 2012 May;9(2):73-5. Epub 2012 Sep 30.

Evaluation of fracture risk and fracture prevention: an Italian picture.

Brandi ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Mineral and Bone Metabolism Unit, Department of Internal Medicine, University 
Hospital of Careggi, Florence, Italy.

Italy has one of the longest life expectancies when compared to other countries 
in the world, with 20% of the entire population being over 65 years of age and 
about 6% of these being already 80 years and over. Increased life expectancy is 
associated with a greater frailty index, typical of the elderly population, with 
higher prevalence of chronic and degenerative disorders, including fragility 
fractures. Data have been accumulating about the incidence of fragility 
fractures in the Italian population, with numbers that are truly alarming for 
the future decades. In this scenario, the need for the use of antifracture 
agents becomes strategic in our Country. Therapeutic options currently available 
for fracture prevention include both antiresorptive and anabolic compounds. 
Despite the incorporation of this evidence from randomized trials into clinical 
practice guidelines, these interventions are considerably underutilized. 
Furthermore, adherence to these therapies is a critical parameter affecting the 
effectiveness of treatments. Results of institutional databases pose the problem 
of unsatisfactory outcomes of compliance to antifracture agents prescriptions 
recorded within regional pharmaceutical databases. These care gaps highlight the 
finding that additional effort is needed to optimize management of osteoporosis 
in patients at risk of fragility fractures. Given that there is evidence that 
appropriate management of osteoporosis decreases fractures, it is felt that the 
use of appropriate management as the primary outcome is per se relevant. Future 
efforts should consider treatment appropriateness, treatment sustainability and 
treatment adherence, as the needed parameters to be applied to programs of 
osteoporosis care in a community setting.

PMCID: PMC3476518
PMID: 23087713


474. Clin Cases Miner Bone Metab. 2012 May;9(2):107-11. Epub 2012 Sep 30.

Musculoskeletal problems in soccer players: current concepts.

Longo UG(1), Loppini M, Cavagnino R, Maffulli N, Denaro V.

Author information:
(1)Specialization School in Orthopaedics and Traumatology, University "Campus 
Bio-Medico" of Rome, Rome, Italy ; CIR, University "Campus Bio-Medico" of Rome, 
Rome, Italy.

Soccer is the most popular sport worldwide, with about 200 million players, both 
professionals and amateurs. Because of its popularity, it has been often 
proposed to be able to prevent or cure health problems around the world. 
Although participation in football leads to significant physical benefits such 
as improving well-being, extending life expectancy and reducing the likelihood 
of several major non-communicable diseases, the possibility to incur in soccer 
injuries must be considered. On average, an elite football player suffers from 
1.5-7.6 injuries each 1,000 hours of training and 12-35 injuries each 1000 hours 
of match. Several risk factors for soccer injuries have been described. The most 
important of them are the level of play (the risk appears to be higher in 
professional than amateur players); the exercise load; and the standard of 
training. The injury prevention program "The 11", developed with the support of 
the Federation Internationale de Football Association (FIFA), aims to reduce the 
impact of intrinsic injury risk factors in soccer, and it has been validated in 
that sport. A successive modified version of "The 11" ("The 11+") has been also 
shown to be effective in preventing injuries in young female soccer players. The 
FIFA 11+ provided more than 40% of reduction of the risk of injury. Several 
factors can be related to the risk of injury during sport. Therefore different 
exercises or factors might have been responsible for efficacy of the FIFA 11+ to 
prevent injuries. Several improvements have been surely achieved in the last ten 
years, but further investigation is needed to improve the benefits of playing 
soccer on human health.

PMCID: PMC3476519
PMID: 23087721


475. Arch Public Health. 2012 Oct 22;70(1):23. doi: 10.1186/0778-7367-70-23.

European innovation partnership on active and healthy ageing: triggers of 
setting the headline target of 2 additional healthy life years at birth at EU 
average by 2020.

Lagiewka K(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit 02 - Innovation for Health and Consumers, Directorate General for Health 
and Consumer Policy, European Commission, Rue Belliard 232 7/41, Brussels, 1049, 
Belgium. karolina.lagiewka@coleurope.eu.

BACKGROUND: The objective of this paper is to provide analytical research that 
supported the European Commission in setting the global target of additional two 
healthy life years (HLY) at birth by 2020 in the EU on average, within the 
European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing (the EIP on AHA). 
It produces a straightforward analysis of HLY projections that helped the 
European Commission set a firm, politically sound, target. In order to reach 
that goal, policy makers need to commit to redefining health priorities and 
goals and developing and implementing relevant strategies and programmes.
METHODS: The study computes a simple simulation of the HLY at birth based on 
three demographic scenarios: compression of morbidity, expansion of morbidity 
and an intermediary scenario, the dynamic equilibrium, given the expected 2.1 
year gain in male and 1.6 in female life expectancy (LE) by 2020. Data on HLY 
and projections of life expectancy were obtained from Eurostat and 2008 was 
taken as a baseline. For consistency and given data gaps, EU27 average values of 
HLY were calculated.
RESULTS: In the EU27 as a whole, the difference between LE and HLY in 2008 was 
nearly 15 years for men and 20 years for women. The developments of healthy life 
expectancies across the EU Member States (MSs) are even more diverse that makes 
it difficult to model any robust EU level trends.Under compression of morbidity, 
life expectancy and HLY would increase by 2020 on average by 2.1 and 2.0 years 
for men and by 1.6 and 1.4 years for women respectively. The expected years with 
disability would remain unchanged while the HLY/LE ratio would improve leading 
to a 0.5% gain for both genders. Under expansion of morbidity, life expectancy 
would increase by 2.1 years for men and 1.4 years for women by 2020, while HLY 
would remain unchanged and the expected years with disability would increase by 
2.1 years and 1.6 years in women. This would imply the deterioration of the 
HLY/LE ratio for both men and women generating a 2.2% and 1.4% loss of health 
for men and women accordingly. Under dynamic equilibrium, the HLY would increase 
but to a lesser extent as the rise in life expectancy. The HLY would increase by 
1.6 and 1.2 years for men and women respectively. HLY/LE ratio would remain 
unchanged for both men (+0.1%) and women. The study shows that the first 
scenario would reduce the HLY gap between the EU MSs by 1.4 years in men and 1.2 
years in women, the second would generate no change, while the third one would 
reduce the gap by 0.9 years in men and increase it by 0.7 years in women.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the study triggered the political decision of 
setting the global target of 2 additional HLY for the European Innovation 
Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing to be achieved by 2020. It is a 'grand' 
goal but can be achieved. Statistics clearly show that EU countries characterise 
very different levels of health progress, with a gap of 2 decades and diverging 
trends. With this in mind, the EU HLY target should be complemented by national 
HLY targets for men and women, set by MSs.

DOI: 10.1186/0778-7367-70-23
PMCID: PMC3492155
PMID: 23088612


476. Ann Vasc Surg. 2013 Jan;27(1):113-22. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2012.05.012. Epub
2012  Oct 23.

Chronic mesenteric ischemia: critical review and guidelines for management.

Pecoraro F(1), Rancic Z, Lachat M, Mayer D, Amann-Vesti B, Pfammatter T, Bajardi 
G, Veith FJ.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Cardiovascular Surgery, University Hospital Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland; Vascluar Surgery Unit, University Hospital P. Giaccone, Via 
L.Giuffrè 5, Palermo, Italy. felicepecoraro@libero.it

BACKGROUND: CMI is caused by chronic occlusive disease of mesenteric arteries. 
In such an uncommon disease, clear recommendations are strongly needed. 
Unfortunately, treatment options for symptomatic CMI are still controversial and 
no guidelines exist.
METHODS: A systematic literature review of the last 25-years was conducted 
through MEDLINE, Embase, and Cochrane Review/Trials register to identify studies 
reporting on CMI treatment with more than 10 patients. Primary outcomes were 
perioperative mortality and morbidity rates. Secondary outcomes were survival 
rates, primary and secondary patency rates, vessels treated, CMI recurrence, 
follow-up (FU), technical success (TS), and in-hospital length of stay 
(InH-LOS). Patients were divided into endovascular treatment (ET) or open 
treatment (OT) groups. Subsequently, primary and secondary outcomes were 
analyzed by study publication year for the interval periods 1986-2000 ("A") and 
2001-2010 ("B"). Differences were assessed using the t-test and the χ(2) test.
RESULTS: Forty-three articles with 1,795 patients were included. Perioperative 
mortality and morbidity rates were lower in the ET group. No difference in 
survival rate was observed. Primary and secondary patencies were superior in the 
OT group. A greater number of vessels were revascularized in the OT group. CMI 
recurrence was more frequent in the ET group. FU was longer in the OT group. TS 
was superior in the OT group and InH-LOS was shorter in the ET group. A higher 
number of patients were treated by ET in the period "A." No differences in 
mortality and morbidity were observed between period "A" and "B" in ET and OT 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the lower periprocedural mortality and morbidity after 
ET, this approach should be considered as the first treatment option in most CMI 
patients, especially in those with severe malnutrition. Primary OT should be 
restricted to cases that do not qualify for ET or good surgical risk patients 
with long life expectancy. Considering better long-term results of OT, ET 
treatment should be considered as a bridge therapy to OT in some patients 
requiring retreatment if ET does not preclude subsequent OT.

Copyright © 2013 Annals of Vascular Surgery Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2012.05.012
PMID: 23088809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Ann ICRP. 2012 Oct-Dec;41(3-4):170-8. doi: 10.1016/j.icrp.2012.06.017. Epub
2012  Sep 12.

Radiological protection in paediatric computed tomography.

Khong PL(1), Frush D, Ringertz H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic Radiology, Queen Mary Hospital, The University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong. plkhong@hku.hk

It is well known that paediatric patients are generally at greater risk for the 
development of cancer per unit of radiation dose compared with adults, due both 
to the longer life expectancy for any harmful effects of radiation to manifest, 
and the fact that developing organs and tissues are more sensitive to the 
effects of radiation. Multiple computed tomography (CT) examinations may 
cumulatively involve absorbed doses to organs and tissues that can sometimes 
approach or exceed the levels known from epidemiological studies to 
significantly increase the probability of cancer development. Radiation 
protection strategies include rigorous justification of CT examinations and the 
use of imaging techniques that are non-ionising, followed by optimisation of 
radiation dose exposure (according to the 'as low as reasonably achievable' 
principle). Special consideration should be given to the availability of dose 
reduction technology when acquiring CT scanners. Dose reduction should be 
optimised by adjustment of scan parameters (such as mAs, kVp, and pitch) 
according to patient weight or age, region scanned, and study indication (e.g. 
images with greater noise should be accepted if they are of sufficient 
diagnostic quality). Other strategies include restricting multiphase examination 
protocols, avoiding overlapping of scan regions, and only scanning the area in 
question. Newer technologies such as tube current modulation, organ-based dose 
modulation, and iterative reconstruction should be used when appropriate. 
Attention should also be paid to optimising study quality (e.g. by image 
post-processing to facilitate radiological diagnoses and interpretation). 
Finally, improving awareness through education and advocacy, and further 
research in paediatric radiological protection are important to help reduce 
patient dose.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.icrp.2012.06.017
PMID: 23089016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. J Med Internet Res. 2012 Oct 22;14(5):e147. doi: 10.2196/jmir.2242.

A panel analysis of the strategic association between information and 
communication technology and public health delivery.

Wu SJ(1), Raghupathi W.

Author information:
(1)The Gabelli School of Business, Fordham University, Bronx, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: In this exploratory research, we use panel data analysis to examine 
the correlation between Information and Communication Technology (ICTs) and 
public health delivery at the country level.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this exploratory research is to examine the strategic 
association over time between ICTs and country-level public health.
METHODS: Using data from the World Development Indicators, we construct a panel 
data set of countries of five different income levels and look closely at the 
period from 2000 to 2008. The panel data analysis allows us to explore this 
dynamic relationship under the control for unobserved country-specific effects 
by using a fixed-effects estimation method. In particular,, we examine the 
association of five ICT factors with five public health indicators: adolescent 
fertility rate, child immunization coverage, tuberculosis case detected, life 
expectancy, and adult mortality rate.
RESULTS: First, overall ICTs' factors substantially improve a country's public 
health delivery on the top of wealth effect. Second, among all the ICTs' 
factors, accessibility is the only one that is associated with improvements in 
all aspects of public health delivery, while the contributions from the usage, 
quality, and applications are negligible. ICTs' accessibility factor is 
associated with a considerable extension to life expectancy and reduced adult 
mortality rate. Third, all entity-specific factors are significant in each 
model, indicating that countries' economic development level does influence 
their public health delivery.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that ICT accessibility has a strong 
association with effective delivery of public health. There are others, but the 
key strategic applications are eHealth and mHealth. The findings of this study 
will help government officials and public health policy makers to formulate 
strategic decisions regarding the best ICT investments and deployment. For 
example, the study shows that providing accessibility should be a critical 
focus.

DOI: 10.2196/jmir.2242
PMCID: PMC3510718
PMID: 23089193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


479. Health Technol Assess. 2012;16(39):1-543. doi: 10.3310/hta16390.

The effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of enzyme and substrate replacement 
therapies: a longitudinal cohort study of people with lysosomal storage 
