in 2008 and 2009. Discharged patients were evaluated for primary prevention, ICD 
indication and prescription by general cardiologists. Of 1711 discharged 
patients, 1525 (89%) had data available for evaluating indication status. Class 
I indications for ICD therapy were met for 153 (10%) patients based on collected 
data. Only 20 (13%, 95% confidence interval: 7.7-18.4%) patients with indication 
were prescribed an ICD. Patients prescribed an ICD were younger than patients 
who were not prescribed an ICD (62 vs. 68 years, P < 0.01). The reasons given by 
cardiologists for not prescribing an ICD for 133 patients with an indication 
were: indication criteria not met (75%), life expectancy <1 year (9.7%), 
rejection by the patient (5.2%), no medical coverage paying for the device 
(3.7%), psychiatric patient (2.2%), and other reasons (4.2%).
CONCLUSIONS: In Latin America, international guidelines for primary prevention 
ICD implantation are not well followed. The main reason is that cardiologists 
believe that patients do not meet indication criteria, even though study data 
confirm that criteria are met. This poses a significant challenge and underlines 
the importance of continuous and improved medical education.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eus253
PMID: 22968848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Exp Ther Med. 2012 Feb;3(2):171-180. doi: 10.3892/etm.2011.398. Epub 2011
Dec 1.

Cryotherapy is associated with improved clinical outcomes of sorafenib for the 
treatment of advanced hepatocellular carcinoma.

Yang Y(1), Lu Y, Wang C, Bai W, Qu J, Chen Y, Chang X, An L, Zhou L, Zeng Z, Lou 
M, Lv J.

Author information:
(1)Center of Therapeutic Research for Hepatocellular Carcinoma, Beijing 302nd 
Hospital;

Sorafenib may prolong survival in patients with advanced hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC), but with limited efficacy. The present study aimed to assess 
the safety and efficacy of sorafenib combined with cryotherapy (cryoRx) for the 
treatment of advanced HCC. A total of 104 patients met the following criteria: 
advanced HCC without distant metastasis, presence of portal vein thrombosis, 
Child-Pugh class A or B and life expectancy of at least 12 weeks. All patients 
were randomly assigned to sorafenib and cryoRx (n=52) or sorafenib-alone (n=52) 
treatment groups. The primary end-point of the study was overall survival (OS). 
The secondary end-points included time to progression (TTP) and tolerability. 
Microvessel density (MVD) was assessed following immunostaining for CD34. In a 
median of 10.5 (4-26) months follow-up, the median OS was 12.5 months (95% CI 
10.6-16.4) in the combination therapy vs. 8.6 months (7.3-10.4) in the 
sorafenib-alone (P=0.01) group. The median TTP was 9.5 months (8.4-13.5) in the 
combination therapy vs. 5.3 months (3.8-6.9) in the sorafenib alone (P=0.02) 
group. CryoRx was an independent factor associated with improved clinical 
outcomes of sorafenib for the treatment of advanced HCC. Patients with low 
intratumoral MVD receiving the combination therapy exhibited a significantly 
longer median TTP and OS compared to those receiving sorafenib. High 
intratumoral MVD was an independent predictor of poor responses to sorafenib for 
advanced HCC. Compared with previous reports of sorafenib-related adverse drug 
reactions (ADRs), cryoRx did not further increase the frequency and degree of 
sorafenib-related ADRs. In conclusion, compared to sorafenib alone, the addition 
of cryoRx to sorafenib significantly improves the clinical outcomes of sorafenib 
for the treatment of advanced HCC with acceptable tolerance and similar safety 
profiles as previously reported. High intratumoral MVD is predictive of poor 
responses to sorafenib in advanced HCC patients.

DOI: 10.3892/etm.2011.398
PMCID: PMC3438709
PMID: 22969864181. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e42771. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0042771. Epub 2012 Aug
27.

Open field release of genetically engineered sterile male Aedes aegypti in 
Malaysia.

Lacroix R(1), McKemey AR, Raduan N, Kwee Wee L, Hong Ming W, Guat Ney T, Rahidah 
A A S, Salman S, Subramaniam S, Nordin O, Hanum A T N, Angamuthu C, Marlina 
Mansor S, Lees RS, Naish N, Scaife S, Gray P, LabbÃ© G, Beech C, Nimmo D, Alphey 
L, Vasan SS, Han Lim L, Wasi A N, Murad S.

Author information:
(1)Oxitec Sendirian Berhad, Kuala Lumpur, Wilayah Persekutuan, Malaysia.

BACKGROUND: Dengue is the most important mosquito-borne viral disease. In the 
absence of specific drugs or vaccines, control focuses on suppressing the 
principal mosquito vector, Aedes aegypti, yet current methods have not proven 
adequate to control the disease. New methods are therefore urgently needed, for 
example genetics-based sterile-male-release methods. However, this requires that 
lab-reared, modified mosquitoes be able to survive and disperse adequately in 
the field.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Adult male mosquitoes were released into an 
uninhabited forested area of Pahang, Malaysia. Their survival and dispersal was 
assessed by use of a network of traps. Two strains were used, an engineered 
'genetically sterile' (OX513A) and a wild-type laboratory strain, to give both 
absolute and relative data about the performance of the modified mosquitoes. The 
two strains had similar maximum dispersal distances (220 m), but mean distance 
travelled of the OX513A strain was lower (52 vs. 100 m). Life expectancy was 
similar (2.0 vs. 2.2 days). Recapture rates were high for both strains, possibly 
because of the uninhabited nature of the site.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: After extensive contained studies and regulatory 
scrutiny, a field release of engineered mosquitoes was safely and successfully 
conducted in Malaysia. The engineered strain showed similar field longevity to 
an unmodified counterpart, though in this setting dispersal was reduced relative 
to the unmodified strain. These data are encouraging for the future testing and 
implementation of genetic control strategies and will help guide future field 
use of this and other engineered strains.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0042771
PMCID: PMC3428326
PMID: 22970102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Authors affiliated to 
Oxitec Ltd. or Oxitec Sdn Bhd are past or present staff or students of Oxitec 
Ltd. or Oxitec Sdn Bhd. These authors also have, or had, shares or share options 
in Oxitec Ltd. The genetically modified line of Aedes aegypti OX513A used in the 
study is a product of Oxitec Ltd. and contains patented technology owned by 
Oxitec Ltd. and Oxford University. Specific details will be made available upon 
request. This does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLoS ONE policies 
on sharing data and materials, as detailed online in the guide for authors. All 
other authors declare no conflicting interests.


182. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e44043. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0044043. Epub 2012 Sep
6.

Cost per QALY (quality-adjusted life year) and lifetime cost of prolonged 
mechanical ventilation in Taiwan.

Hung MC(1), Lu HM, Chen L, Lin MS, Chen CR, Yu CJ, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, National Cheng Kung University College of 
Medicine, Tainan, Taiwan.

INTRODUCTION: Patients who require prolonged mechanical ventilation (PMV) are 
increasing and producing financial burdens worldwide. This study determines the 
cost per QALY (quality-adjusted life year), out-of-pocket expenses, and lifetime 
costs for PMV patients stratified by underlying diseases and cognition levels.
METHODS: A nationwide sample of 50,481 patients with continual mechanical 
ventilation for more than 21 days was collected during 1997-2007. After 
stratifying the patients according to specific diagnoses, a latent class 
analysis (LCA) was performed to categorise PMV patients with multiple 
co-morbidities into several homogeneous groups. The survival functions were 
estimated for individual groups using the Kaplan-Meier method and extrapolated 
to 300 months through a semi-parametric method. The survival functions were 
adjusted using an EQ-5D utility value derived from a convenience sample of 142 
PMV patients to estimate quality-adjusted life expectancies (QALE). Another 
convenience sample of 165 patients was used to estimate the out-of-pocket 
expenses. The lifetime expenditures paid by the single-payer National Health 
Insurance (NHI) system and patients' families were estimated by multiplying 
average monthly expenditures by the survival probabilities and summing the 
values over lifetime.
RESULTS: PMV therapy costs more than 100,000 U.S. dollars (USD) per QALY for all 
patients with poor cognition. For patients with partial cognition, PMV therapy 
costs less than 56,000 USD per QALY for those with liver cirrhosis, intracranial 
or spinal cord injuries, and 57,000-69,000 USD for patients with multiple 
co-morbidities under age of 65. The average lifetime cost of PMV was usually 
below 56,000 USD. The out-of-pocket expenses were often more than one-third of 
the total cost of treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: PMV treatment for patients with poor cognition would cost more than 
5 times Taiwan's GDP (gross domestic products), or less cost-effective. The 
out-of-pocket expenses for PMV provision should also be considered in policy 
decision.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0044043
PMCID: PMC3435371
PMID: 22970160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


183. Haemophilia. 2013 Mar;19(2):166-73. doi: 10.1111/hae.12006. Epub 2012 Sep
13.

Orthopaedic co-morbidities in the elderly haemophilia population: a review.

Stephensen D(1), Rodriguez-Merchan EC.

Author information:
(1)Kent Haemophilia Centre, Kent and Canterbury Hospital, Canterbury, UK. 
david.stephensen@ekht.nhs.uk

Due to improvements in the treatment and medical care of haemophilia, the life 
expectancy of individuals with haemophilia has approached that of the general 
population. To review the main co-morbidities of the musculoskeletal system in 
elderly persons with haemophilia, we have performed a review of the literature 
on the musculoskeletal problems of elderly haemophiliacs. Chronic arthropathy is 
the main co-morbidity in the ageing person with haemophilia. Age-related 
orthopaedic co-morbidities include degenerative joint changes, osteoporosis, 
muscle atrophy or sarcopenia, muscle weakness and disturbance of gait and 
balance. Increased pain, muscle weakness and atrophy along with an increased 
risk of falling are key features of advanced haemophilic arthropathy and ageing. 
An ageing haemophilia population in which arthropathy continues to be the 
primary co-morbidity is a current challenge for those responsible for their 
care. Exercise programmes undertaken two to three times per week for at least 
12Â weeks seem most effective in reducing the impact of age-related changes on 
the musculoskeletal system. Establishing effective exercise programmes and 
strategies to identify individuals who would benefit from early surgical 
intervention together with presurgical physiotherapy prehabilitation is a 
priority for future research.

Â© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12006
PMID: 22970726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2013 Feb 1;128(1-2):90-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2012.08.009. Epub 2012 Sep 9.

The cost-effectiveness of rapid HIV testing in substance abuse treatment: 
results of a randomized trial.

Schackman BR(1), Metsch LR, Colfax GN, Leff JA, Wong A, Scott CA, Feaster DJ, 
Gooden L, Matheson T, Haynes LF, Paltiel AD, Walensky RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Weill Cornell Medical College, 402 East 67th 
Street, New York, NY 10065, USA. brs2006@med.cornell.edu

BACKGROUND: The President's National HIV/AIDS Strategy calls for coupling HIV 
screening and prevention services with substance abuse treatment programs. Fewer 
than half of US community-based substance abuse treatment programs make HIV 
testing available on-site or through referral.
METHODS: We measured the cost-effectiveness of three HIV testing strategies 
evaluated in a randomized trial conducted in 12 community-based substance abuse 
treatment programs in 2009: off-site testing referral, on-site rapid testing 
with information only, on-site rapid testing with risk-reduction counseling. 
Data from the trial included patient demographics, prior testing history, test 
acceptance and receipt of results, undiagnosed HIV prevalence (0.4%) and program 
costs. The Cost-Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS Complications (CEPAC) computer 
simulation model was used to project life expectancy, lifetime costs, and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for HIV-infected individuals. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (2009 US $/QALY) were calculated after adding costs of 
testing HIV-uninfected individuals; costs and QALYs were discounted at 3% 
annually.
RESULTS: Referral for off-site testing is less efficient (dominated) compared to 
offering on-site testing with information only. The cost-effectiveness ratio for 
on-site testing with information is $60,300/QALY in the base case, or 
$76,300/QALY with 0.1% undiagnosed HIV prevalence. HIV risk-reduction counseling 
costs $36 per person more without additional benefit.
CONCLUSIONS: A strategy of on-site rapid HIV testing offer with information only 
in substance abuse treatment programs increases life expectancy at a 
cost-effectiveness ratio <$100,000/QALY. Policymakers and substance abuse 
treatment leaders should seek funding to implement on-site rapid HIV testing in 
substance abuse treatment programs for those not recently tested.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2012.08.009
PMCID: PMC3546145
PMID: 22971593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest There are no author 
conflicts of interest to declare.


185. J Urban Health. 2013 Oct;90 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):23-36. doi: 
10.1007/s11524-012-9761-z.

Urban health challenges in Europe.

Lawrence RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Social and Economic Sciences, 
University of Geneva, Carouge, Geneva, Switzerland, roderick.lawrence@unige.ch.

This article synthesizes diverse official reports, statistics, and scientific 
papers that present demographic, economic, environmental, and social trends 
impacting on the health and quality of life of citizens living in European 
cities. A literature review led to the identification of some key challenges 
including an aging society, migration flows, inequalities in health, global 
change, and risk behaviors that should be addressed in order to promote urban 
health. Other challenges, such as food production and consumption, are also 
relevant, but not included. Cities that have participated in one or more of the 
phases of the WHO European Healthy Cities Network have implemented a number of 
policies, programs, and measures to deal with the challenges discussed in this 
article. Some contributions are presented to illustrate how health and quality 
of life in urban areas can be promoted by local authorities.

DOI: 10.1007/s11524-012-9761-z
PMCID: PMC3764275
PMID: 22971931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Am J Sports Med. 2012 Nov;40(11):2610-6. doi: 10.1177/0363546512458413. Epub
 2012 Sep 12.

The prevalence of low back pain among former elite cross-country skiers, rowers, 
orienteerers, and nonathletes: a 10-year cohort study.

Foss IS(1), Holme I, Bahr R.

Author information:
(1)Oslo Sports Trauma Research Centre, Department of Sports Medicine, Norwegian 
School of Sport Sciences, Norway. idastangefoss@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Some cross-sectional studies have suggested that the prevalence of 
low back pain (LBP) may be high among endurance athletes with repetitive back 
loading, but there are no large, prospective cohort studies addressing this 
issue.
PURPOSE: To compare the prevalence of symptoms of low back pain (LBP) among 
former endurance athletes with different loading characteristics on the lumbar 
region: cross-country skiing (flexion loading), rowing (extension loading), and 
orienteering (no specific loading), as well as a nonathletic control group.
STUDY DESIGN: Cohort study; level of evidence, 2.
METHODS: Self-reported questionnaire on LBP adapted for sports based on 
standardized Nordic questionnaires for musculoskeletal symptoms. Responders were 
173 rowers, 209 orienteerers, 242 cross-country skiers, and 116 control subjects 
(88% of the original cohort).
RESULTS: There were no group differences between the athletic groups and the 
control group with regard to the 2 main outcomes: reported LBP the previous 12 
months (P = .66) and frequent LBP the past year (>30 days with LBP) (P = .14). 
More rowers than orienteerers reported frequent LBP the past year (adjusted OR = 
2.32; CI, 1.02-5.28). Occupational changes due to LBP were reported more often 
by rowers (13%) than skiers (7%) and orienteerers (3%) (P = .002). More rowers 
and skiers reported having received outpatient medical assistance than 
orienteerers or controls. A training volume >550 h/y was a risk factor for 
reporting LBP during the previous 12 months compared with a training volume <200 
h/y (adjusted OR = 2.51; CI, 1.26-5.02). A previous episode with LBP was 
associated with LBP later in life (adjusted OR = 3.02; CI, 2.22-4.10).
CONCLUSION: Low back pain was not more common among former endurance athletes 
with specific back loading compared with non-athletes. The results indicate that 
years of prolonged and repetitive flexion or extension loading in endurance 
sports does not lead to more LBP. However, a large training volume in the past 
year and previous episodes with LBP are risk factors for LBP. Comparing the 
sports of rowing, cross-country skiing, and orienteering, it appears that 
whereas orienteering is protective, rowing can provoke LBP.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546512458413
PMID: 22972850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. J Res Med Sci. 2011 Sep;16(9):1183-8.

Is Tokuhashi score suitable for evaluation of life expectancy before surgery in 
Iranian patients with spinal metastases?

Mollahoseini R(1), Farhan F, Khajoo A, Jouibari MA, Gholipour F.

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, Department of Neurosurgery, Firoozgar Medical Center, 
Tehran University of Medical sciences, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: One of the most important selection criteria for spinal metastases 
surgery is life expectancy and the most important system for this prediction has 
been proposed by Tokuhashi. The aim of this study was to evaluate predictive 
value of the Tokuhashi score for life expectancy in Iranian patients with spinal 
metastases one year after diagnosis.
METHODS: From February 2007 to March 2009, of 180 patients suffering spinal 
metastatic tumors, 71 patients were excluded. This left a study population of 
109 patients with known malignant metastases to spine (56 females and 53 males; 
mean age, 57 Â± 12 years). Tokuhashi revised evaluation system for the prognosis 
of metastatic spinal tumors was used for all patients. The survival period 
predicted by this system for the prognosis and the actual survival period after 
1 year follow up were evaluated.
RESULTS: The predicted survival according to Tokuhashi prognostic scoring system 
was less than 6 months in 38(34.9%) patients, 6-12 months in 39(35.8%) patients 
and 1 year or more in 32(29.4%) patients. 39 (35.8%) patients died at first 
six-month of the follow up, 28(25.7%) patients at the second six-month period 
and 42(38.5%) patients were alive at the end of the year. There was no 
significant difference between predicted and actual survival time (p = 0.116).
CONCLUSIONS: Present study showed that the Tokuhashi revised scoring system may 
be practicable and highly predictive preoperative scoring system for patients 
with spinal metastases in Iran.

PMCID: PMC3430043
PMID: 22973387

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests Authors have no conflict 
of interests.


188. Heart Advis. 2011 Jan;14(1):8.

I heard that women with heart failure live longer than men with heart failure. 
If this is true, can you tell me why?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 22973598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Heart Advis. 2011 Jan;14(1):12.

I was diagnosed with coronary artery disease about a year ago and have since had 
one stent put in. I take my medications and try to live a healthy lifestyle with 
regular exercise and a good diet, but I frequently find myself worrying about my 
heart and life expectancy. Any advice?

[No authors listed]

PMID: 22973602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Nov 1;30(11):1067-84. doi: 
10.2165/11595080-000000000-00000.

The cost effectiveness of genetic testing for CYP2C19 variants to guide 
thienopyridine treatment in patients with acute coronary syndromes: a New 
Zealand evaluation.

Panattoni L(1), Brown PM, Te Ao B, Webster M, Gladding P.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand. 
laura.e.panattoni@gmail.com

Erratum in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2020 Mar;38(3):315.

BACKGROUND: A recent clinical trial has demonstrated that patients with acute 
coronary syndromes (ACS) and the reduced function allele CYP2C19*2 (*2 allele), 
who are treated with thienopyridines, have an increased risk of adverse cardiac 
events with clopidogrel, but not with prasugrel. The frequency of the *2 allele 
varies by ethnicity and the Maoris, Asians and Pacific Islanders of New Zealand 
have a relatively high incidence.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to evaluate, from a New Zealand health system 
perspective, the cost effectiveness of treating all ACS patients with generic 
clopidogrel compared with prasugrel, and also compared with the genetically 
guided strategy that *2 allele carriers receive prasugrel and non-carriers 
receive clopidogrel.
METHODS: A decision-tree model consisting of five health states (myocardial 
infarction, stroke, bleeding, stent thrombosis and cardiovascular death) was 
developed. Clinical outcome data (two TRITON-TIMI 38 genetic sub-studies) 
comparing clopidogrel and prasugrel for both *2 allele carriers and non-carriers 
were combined with the prevalence of the heterozygosity for the *2 allele in New 
Zealand Europeans (15%), Maoris (24%), Asians (29%) and Pacific Islanders (45%) 
to determine the predicted adverse event rate for the New Zealand population. 
National hospital diagnosis-related group (DRG) discharge codes were used to 
determine alternative adverse event rates, along with the costs of 
hospitalizations during the 15 months after patients presented with an ACS. The 
primary outcome measure was the incremental cost per QALY (calculated using 
literature-reported weights). Monte Carlo simulations and alternative scenario 
analysis based on both clinical trial and national hospital incidence were used. 
Additional analysis considered the overall TRITON-TIMI 38 rates. Costs (in New 
Zealand dollars [$NZ], year 2009 values) and benefits were discounted at 3% per 
annum.
RESULTS: Actual hospital-based adverse event rates were higher than those 
reported in the TRITON-TIMI 38 randomized controlled trial and the genetic 
sub-studies, especially for myocardial infarction and cardiovascular death, and 
for Maoris and Pacific Islanders. For both sources of adverse event rates, 
treating the population with prasugrel was associated with worse outcomes 
(QALYs) than clopidogrel. However, prasugrel became cost effective 
($NZ31â751/QALY) when the overall TRITON-TIMI 38 rates were used. A genetic test 
to guide the selected use of prasugrel was cost effective ($NZ8702/QALY versus 
$NZ24â617/QALY) for hospital and clinical trial incidence, respectively. Based 
on the hospital rates, the genetically guided strategy was especially cost 
effective for Maoris ($NZ7312/QALY) and Pacific Islanders ($NZ7041/QALY). These 
results were robust to the sensitivity analysis, except the genetically guided 
strategy under the 15-month clinical trial event rate scenario ($NZ168â748/QALY) 
did not remain cost effective under a $NZ50â000 threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of a genetic test to guide thienopyridine treatment in patients 
with ACS is a potentially cost-effective treatment strategy, especially for 
Maoris and Pacific Islanders. This treatment strategy also has the potential to 
reduce ethnic health disparities that exist in New Zealand. However, the results 
comparing clopidogrel and prasugrel are sensitive to whether the genetic 
sub-studies or the overall TRITON-TIMI 38 rates are used. While the national 
hospital event rates may be more appropriate for the New Zealand population, 
many assumptions are required when they are used to adjust the genetic 
sub-studies rates.

DOI: 10.2165/11595080-000000000-00000
PMID: 22974536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Nov 1;30(11):1035-49. doi: 
10.2165/11593040-000000000-00000.

Losing sight of the wood for the trees: some issues in describing and valuing 
health, and another possible approach.

Dolan P(1), Lee H, Peasgood T.

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics, London, UK.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: The ability to value health in a way that allows the 
comparison of different conditions across a range of population groups is 
central to determining priorities in healthcare. This paper considers some of 
the concerns with the 'received wisdom' in valuing health--to describe it using 
a generic descriptive system and to value it using the hypothetical preferences 
of the general public.
METHODS: The literature on the dimensions of health that matter most to people 
was reviewed and this paper discusses the use of global measures of subjective 
well-being (SWB) as a possible alternative. New analysis of the British 
Household Panel Survey was conducted to explore the relationship between life 
satisfaction and the preference-based quality-of-life measure the SF-6D. The 
impact on life satisfaction of each level for each dimension of the SF-6D is 
estimated through a linear model predicting life satisfaction with the SF-6D 
levels as determinants.
RESULTS: Valuing changes in the health of the general population via changes in 
life satisfaction would lead to different weights being attached to the 
different dimensions of health, as compared to a well used utility score in 
which weights are taken from general population preferences. If preferences 
elicited via standard gamble exercises are based only on a prediction of what it 
would be like to live in a particular health state, then these results suggest 
that reductions in physical functioning matter less than people imagine and 
reductions in mental health impact upon our lives more than preferences would 
suggest.
CONCLUSIONS: Using data from the British Household Panel Survey, it is shown 
that a focus on SWB would place greater emphasis on mental health conditions. 
The implications for health policy are considered.

DOI: 10.2165/11593040-000000000-00000
PMID: 22974537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Curr Biol. 2012 Sep 11;22(17):R741-52. doi: 10.1016/j.cub.2012.07.024.

Ageing as a risk factor for disease.

Niccoli T(1), Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing, Department of Genetics, Evolution and 
Environment, University College London, Darwin Building, Gower St, London WC1E 
6BT, UK.

Age is the main risk factor for the prevalent diseases of developed countries: 
cancer, cardiovascular disease and neurodegeneration. The ageing process is 
deleterious for fitness, but can nonetheless evolve as a consequence of the 
declining force of natural selection at later ages, attributable to extrinsic 
hazards to survival: ageing can then occur as a side-effect of accumulation of 
mutations that lower fitness at later ages, or of natural selection in favour of 
mutations that increase fitness of the young but at the cost of a higher 
subsequent rate of ageing. Once thought of as an inexorable, complex and 
lineage-specific process of accumulation of damage, ageing has turned out to be 
influenced by mechanisms that show strong evolutionary conservation. Lowered 
activity of the nutrient-sensing insulin/insulin-like growth factor/Target of 
Rapamycin signalling network can extend healthy lifespan in yeast, multicellular 
invertebrates, mice and, possibly, humans. Mitochondrial activity can also 
promote ageing, while genome maintenance and autophagy can protect against it. 
We discuss the relationship between evolutionarily conserved mechanisms of 
ageing and disease, and the associated scientific challenges and opportunities.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cub.2012.07.024
PMID: 22975005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Demography. 2013 Feb;50(1):181-206. doi: 10.1007/s13524-012-0139-3.

The association between individual income and remaining life expectancy at the 
age of 65 in the Netherlands.

Kalwij AS(1), Alessie RJ, Knoef MG.

Author information:
(1)Utrecht University School of Economics, The Netherlands. a.s.kalwij@uu.nl

This article quantifies the association between individual income and remaining 
life expectancy at the statutory retirement age (65) in the Netherlands. For 
this purpose, we estimate a mortality risk model using a large administrative 
data set that covers the 1996-2007 period. Besides age and marital status, the 
model includes as covariates individual and spouse's income as well as a random 
individual specific effect. It thus allows for dynamic selection based on both 
observed and unobserved characteristics. We find that conditional on marital 
status, individual income is about equally strong and negatively associated with 
mortality risk for men and women and that spouse's income is only weakly 
associated with mortality risk for women. For both men and women, we quantify 
remaining life expectancy at age 65 for low-income individuals as approximately 
2.5 years less than that for high-income individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-012-0139-3
PMID: 22975777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Dec;14(6):853-61. doi: 10.1007/s10198-012-0430-7.
Epub  2012 Sep 14.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of top-down versus step-up strategies in patients 
with newly diagnosed active luminal Crohn's disease.

Marchetti M(1), Liberato NL, Di Sabatino A, Corazza GR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Cardinal Massaia Hospital, Asti, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Top-down (TD) strategy with frontline infliximab proved to be more 
effective than the traditional step-up (SU) approach in newly diagnosed luminal 
moderate-to-severe CD patients. However, the considerable cost of infliximab 
calls its universal use as frontline treatment into question. The aim of this 
study is to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the TD approach using a Markov 
decision model.
METHODS: Four states were modelled, namely step 1, step 2, step 3 and death. The 
first three steps were in TD infliximab induction plus azathioprine, infliximab 
rechallenge plus azathioprine and steroids plus azathioprine, and in SU steroid 
induction, azathioprine plus steroid rechallenge and infliximab plus 
azathioprine. Each health state lasted 1 month. The time horizon of the model 
was 5 years. Transition probabilities and quality of life were estimated from a 
randomised trial. First- and second-order sensitivity analyses were done to test 
the robustness of the results.
RESULTS: At baseline analysis, TD improved quality-adjusted life expectancy from 
3.76 to 3.90 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), that is, 0.14 QALYs, while 
allowing a saving of euro 773, proving dominant when compared to SU. TD was 
cost-saving in 66% of the Monte Carlo simulations and cost <euro 20,000/QALY in 
84%. At sensitivity analysis the most significant variables were infliximab cost 
and time horizon: doubling infliximab cost (euro 1,000 per 100 mg vial) resulted 
in an incremental cost-utility ratio of euro 12,114/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: TD is a cost-effective treatment in newly diagnosed CD patients 
with luminal moderate-to-severe disease, and sensitivity analysis showed the 
result to be robust.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-012-0430-7
PMID: 22975794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. BMJ Qual Saf. 2012 Dec;21 Suppl 1(Suppl_1):i29-38. doi: 
10.1136/bmjqs-2012-001210. Epub 2012 Sep 13.

Evaluation of a predevelopment service delivery intervention: an application to 
improve clinical handovers.

Yao GL(1), Novielli N, Manaseki-Holland S, Chen YF, van der Klink M, Barach P, 
Chilton PJ, Lilford RJ; European HANDOVER Research Collaborative.

Collaborators: Barach P, Pijnenborg L, Johnson J, GÃ¶bel B, Kalkman C, Kutryba B, 
Johnson J, Kutaj-Wasikowska H, Dudzik-Urbaniak E, Kalinowski M, Venneri F, 
Toccafondi G, Molisso A, Albolino S, Wollersheim H, Hesselink G, Schoonhoven L, 
Vernooij M, Zegers M, Hansagi H, Olsson M, Bergenbrant S, Flink M, Ohlen G, 
Orrego C, Sunol R, Groene O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of 
Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: We developed a method to estimate the expected cost-effectiveness of 
a service intervention at the design stage and 'road-tested' the method on an 
intervention to improve patient handover of care between hospital and community.
METHOD: The development of a nine-step evaluation framework: 1. Identification 
of multiple endpoints and arranging them into manageable groups; 2. Estimation 
of baseline overall and preventable risk; 3. Bayesian elicitation of expected 
effectiveness of the planned intervention; 4. Assigning utilities to groups of 
endpoints; 5. Costing the intervention; 6. Estimating health service costs 
associated with preventable adverse events; 7. Calculating health benefits; 8. 
Cost-effectiveness calculation; 9. Sensitivity and headroom analysis.
RESULTS: Literature review suggested that adverse events follow 19% of patient 
discharges, and that one-third are preventable by improved handover (ie, 6.3% of 
all discharges). The intervention to improve handover would reduce the incidence 
of adverse events by 21% (ie, from 6.3% to 4.7%) according to the elicitation 
exercise. Potentially preventable adverse events were classified by severity and 
duration. Utilities were assigned to each category of adverse event. The costs 
associated with each category of event were obtained from the literature. The 
unit cost of the intervention was â¬16.6, which would yield a Quality Adjusted 
Life Year (QALY) gain per discharge of 0.010. The resulting cost saving was 
â¬14.3 per discharge. The intervention is cost-effective at approximately â¬214 
per QALY under the base case, and remains cost-effective while the effectiveness 
is greater than 1.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: We offer a usable framework to assist in ex ante health economic 
evaluations of health service interventions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjqs-2012-001210
PMCID: PMC3551195
PMID: 22976505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Gac Med Mex. 2012 Jul-Aug;148(4):390-9.

[Health in Mexico: old and rising challenges. An updated assessment].

[Article in Spanish]

Narro Robles J(1), Zepeda Tena C.

Author information:
(1)RectorÃ­a, Universidad Nacional AutÃ³noma de MÃ©xico, MÃ©xico.

In recent decades, Mexico has come a long way in health care matters, which has 
influenced the standard of living of the population and the development of the 
country. However, much remains to be done and changes should happen faster. Some 
of the main challenges Mexico faces currently are presented in this document and 
include: the challenge of reducing poverty in order to improve the health status 
of society; the development of health services that affect the slowdown in the 
pace of evolution of demographic indicators, life expectancy at birth and infant 
mortality; the challenge of reducing inequality; the challenge of great 
infrastructure available in the country for health care and the limited 
performance obtained in terms of organization, management and financing; the 
challenge resulting from human resources training systems, both undergraduate 
and postgraduate; the challenge that relates to academic and scientific 
productivity; the challenge of diabetes as an example of a serious public health 
problem; and the challenge of ethical implications in the organization and 
administration of health services, specifically, the allocation of public 
resources to them.

PMID: 22976757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Epidemiol Health. 2012;34:e2012005. doi: 10.4178/epih/e2012005. Epub 2012
Aug  31.

The Burden of Premature Mortality in Hamadan Province in 2006 and 2010 Using 
Standard Expected Years of Potential Life Lost: A Population-based Study.

Poorolajal J(1), Esmailnasab N, Ahmadzadeh J, Motlagh TA.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Health Sciences, Department of Epidemiology & 
Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, 
Hamadan, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Examining the premature death rate represents the first step in 
estimating the overall burden of disease, reflecting a full picture of how 
different causes affect population health and providing a way of monitoring and 
evaluating population health. The present study was conducted to assess the 
burden of premature mortality in Hamadan Province, Iran in 2006 and 2010.
METHODS: To calculate years of potential life lost (YPLL), the dataset was 
categorized into 5-year age groups based on each person's age at death. Then the 
age groups were subtracted from the relevant age-based life table produced by 
the World Health Organization in 2009. The YPLL for each individual were then 
added together to yield the total YPLL for all individuals in the population who 
died in a particular year. Finally, we calculated the YPLL for all sex-, age-, 
and cause-specific mortality rates and reported them as percentages.
RESULTS: We analyzed 18,786 deaths, 9,127 of which occurred in 2006 and 9,659 in 
2010. Mortality rates were higher in men than women for all age groups both in 
2006 and 2010. In addition, age-specific mortality rates in both genders for all 
age groups were higher in 2010 than in 2006. The percentage of YPLL from 
ischemic heart diseases, cerebrovascular diseases, transport accidents, and 
intentional self-harm were among the greatest sources of premature death.
CONCLUSION: The results of the present survey indicate that the eight major 
causes of premature death in both 2006 and 2010 were non-communicable diseases, 
especially ischemic heart diseases, cerebrovascular diseases, transport 
accidents, and intentional self-harm. Furthermore, our findings indicate a 
change in the role of non-communicable diseases in premature mortality in recent 
years.

DOI: 10.4178/epih/e2012005
PMCID: PMC3437377
PMID: 22977738

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare for this study.


198. Acta Biomed. 2012 Apr;83(1):69-71.

Biases in bone metabolism studies.

Borderi M(1), Viale P.

Author information:
(1)Infection Diseases Unit, S. Orsola Hospital, University of Bologna, Bologna, 
Italy. marco.borderi@aosp.bo.it

An increase in life expectancy, contracted HIV infections in the elderly, 
comorbidity, and a discrepancy between real and biological age make BMD loss an 
unavoidable phenomenon in each patient. Both HIV and antiretrovirals amplify the 
age effect on BMD. Among N(n)RTIs, the effect oftenofovir on BMD seems to exceed 
the effect of other antiretrovirals, but we can find studies which confirm this 
observation, and other studies which doubt the conclusions and/or minimize the 
implications. This disagreement exists because there are a number of biases in 
all these studies that, unfortunately, compromise the conclusions. In the same 
analyses are men and women, different BMIs, different ages, different times of 
HIV infection before entering the trial, resulting in different biological ages, 
and especially different baseline BMD. All these biases together create a pool 
that is not homogeneous, having many variables, which complicates the correct 
interpretation of the results, especially in comparative studies between two 
pools. BMD in the studies is expressed as percentage loss during the follow-up, 
and not as the variation of absolute values of BMD: this feature may be 
deceptive regarding the real loss of BMD. Another bias is the approximate use, 
when defining BMD loss, of T-score even in non-menopausal women and in men 
younger than 50. Finally, another bias is the use of a different DXA machine to 
determine BMD. Prospective studies with a longer follow-up and without all these 
biases are urgently needed.

PMID: 22978062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2013 Oct 20;19(12):1400-19. doi:
10.1089/ars.2012.4921.  Epub 2012 Dec 10.

Forkhead box(O) in control of reactive oxygen species and genomic stability to 
ensure healthy lifespan.

Charitou P(1), Burgering BM.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Cancer Research, University Medical Center Utrecht , Utrecht, The 
Netherlands .

SIGNIFICANCE: Transcription factors of the Forkhead box O class (FOXOs) are 
associated with lifespan and play a role in age-related diseases. FOXOs, 
therefore, serve as a paradigm for developing an understanding as to how 
age-related diseases, such as cancer and diabetes interconnect with lifespan. 
Understanding the regulatory inputs on FOXO may reveal how changes in these 
regulatory signaling pathways affect disease and lifespan.
RECENT ADVANCES: Numerous regulators of FOXO have now been described and a clear 
and evolutionary conserved role has emerged for phosphoinositide-3 
kinase/protein kinase B (also known as c-Akt or AKT) signaling and c-jun 
N-terminal kinase signaling. Analysis of FOXO function in the context of these 
signaling pathways has shown the importance of FOXO-mediated transcriptional 
regulation on cell cycle progression and other cell fates, such as cell 
metabolism, stress resistance, and apoptosis in mediating disease and lifespan.
CRITICAL ISSUES: Persistent DNA damage is also tightly linked to disease and 
aging; yet, data on a possible link between DNA damage and FOXO have been 
limited. Here, we discuss possible connections between FOXO and the DNA damage 
response in the context of the broader role of connecting lifespan and disease.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: Understanding the role of lifespan in diseases onset may 
provide unique and generic possibilities to intervene in disease processes to 
ensure a healthy lifespan.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2012.4921
PMID: 22978495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. J Food Prot. 2012 Jul;75(7):1278-91. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-11-418.

Ranking the disease burden of 14 pathogens in food sources in the United States 
using attribution data from outbreak investigations and expert elicitation.

Batz MB(1), Hoffmann S, Morris JG Jr.

Author information:
(1)Emerging Pathogens Institute, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 
32610-0009, USA. mbatz@ufl.edu

Erratum in
    J Food Prot. 2012 Aug;75(8):1366.

Understanding the relative public health impact of major microbiological hazards 
across the food supply is critical for a risk-based national food safety system. 
This study was conducted to estimate the U.S. health burden of 14 major 
pathogens in 12 broad categories of food and to then rank the resulting 168 
pathogen-food combinations. These pathogens examined were Campylobacter, 
Clostridium perfringens, Escherichia coli O157:H7, Listeria monocytogenes, 
norovirus, Salmonella enterica, Toxoplasma gondii, and all other FoodNet 
pathogens. The health burden associated with each pathogen was measured using 
new estimates of the cost of illness and loss of quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) from acute and chronic illness and mortality. A new method for 
attributing illness to foods was developed that relies on both outbreak data and 
expert elicitation. This method assumes that empirical data are generally 
preferable to expert judgment; thus, outbreak data were used for attribution 
except where evidence suggests that these data are considered not representative 
of food attribution. Based on evaluation of outbreak data, expert elicitation, 
and published scientific literature, outbreak-based attribution estimates for 
Campylobacter, Toxoplasma, Cryptosporidium, and Yersinia were determined not 
representative; therefore, expert-based attribution were included for these four 
pathogens. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the effect of 
attribution data assumptions on rankings. Disease burden was concentrated among 
a relatively small number of pathogen-food combinations. The top 10 pairs were 
responsible for losses of over $8 billion and 36,000 QALYs, or more than 50 % of 
the total across all pairs. Across all 14 pathogens, poultry, pork, produce, and 
complex foods were responsible for nearly 60 % of the total cost of illness and 
loss of QALYs.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-11-418
PMID: 22980012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. J Food Prot. 2012 Jul;75(7):1292-302. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-11-417.

Annual cost of illness and quality-adjusted life year losses in the United 
States due to 14 foodborne pathogens.

Hoffmann S(1), Batz MB, Morris JG Jr.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Department of Agriculture, Economic Research Service, Washington, DC 
20024, USA. shoffmann@ers.usda.gov

In this article we estimate the annual cost of illness and quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) loss in the United States caused by 14 of the 31 major foodborne 
pathogens reported on by Scallan et al. (Emerg. Infect. Dis. 17:7-15, 2011), 
based on their incidence estimates of foodborne illness in the United States. 
These 14 pathogens account for 95 % of illnesses and hospitalizations and 98 % 
of deaths due to identifiable pathogens estimated by Scallan et al. We estimate 
that these 14 pathogens cause $14.0 billion (ranging from $4.4 billion to $33.0 
billion) in cost of illness and a loss of 61,000 QALYs (ranging from 19,000 to 
145,000 QALYs) per year. Roughly 90 % of this loss is caused by five pathogens: 
nontyphoidal Salmonella enterica ($3.3 billion; 17,000 QALYs), Campylobacter 
spp. ($1.7 billion; 13,300 QALYs), Listeria monocytogenes ($2.6 billion; 9,400 
QALYs), Toxoplasma gondii ($3 billion; 11,000 QALYs), and norovirus ($2 billion; 
5,000 QALYs). A companion article attributes losses estimated in this study to 
the consumption of specific categories of foods. To arrive at these estimates, 
for each pathogen we create disease outcome trees that characterize the 
symptoms, severities, durations, outcomes, and likelihoods of health states 
associated with that pathogen. We then estimate the cost of illness (medical 
costs, productivity loss, and valuation of premature mortality) for each 
pathogen. We also estimate QALY loss for each health state associated with a 
given pathogen, using the EuroQol 5D scale. Construction of disease outcome 
trees, outcome-specific cost of illness, and EuroQol 5D scoring are described in 
greater detail in a second companion article.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-11-417
PMID: 22980013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2012 Oct;26(5):613-26. doi: 
10.1016/j.beem.2012.03.004. Epub 2012 May 22.

Early determinants of the ageing trajectory.

Langie SA(1), Lara J, Mathers JC.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Brain Ageing and Vitality, Institute for Ageing and Health, 
Newcastle University Campus for Ageing and Vitality, Newcastle on Tyne, UK. 
sabine.langie@ncl.ac.uk

Over the past 250 years, human life expectancy has increased dramatically and 
continues to do so in most countries worldwide. Genetic factors account for 
about one third of variation in life expectancy so that most inter-individual 
variation in lifespan is explained by stochastic and environmental factors. The 
ageing process is plastic and is driven by the accumulation of molecular damage 
causing the changes in cell and tissue function which characterise the ageing 
phenotype. Early life exposures mark the developing embryo, foetus and child 
with potentially profound implications for the individual's ageing trajectory. 
Maternal factors including age, smoking, socioeconomic status, infections, 
nutritional status and season of birth influence offspring life expectancy and 
the development of age-related diseases. Although the mechanistic processes 
responsible are poorly understood, many of these factors appear to affect foetal 
growth directly or via effects on placental development. Those born relatively 
small i.e. which did not achieve their genetic potential in utero, appear to be 
at greatest disadvantage especially if they become overweight or obese in 
childhood. Early life events and exposures which enhance ageing are likely to 
contribute to molecular damage and/or reduce the repair of such damage. Such 
molecular damage may produce immediate defects in cellular or tissue function 
that are retained into later life. In addition, there is growing evidence that 
early life exposures produce aberrant patterns of epigenetic marks that are 
sustained across the life-course and result in down-regulation of cell defence 
mechanisms.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2012.03.004
PMID: 22980044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Med Clin North Am. 2012 Sep;96(5):915-31. doi: 10.1016/j.mcna.2012.07.010.

Evidence-based therapy for heart failure.

Deedwania PC(1), Carbajal E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Fresno Medical Education 
Program, University of California San Francisco, Fresno, CA 93703, USA. 
deed@fresno.ucsf.edu

Heart failure (HF) is a major public health problem associated with increased 
morbidity and mortality. As the US life expectancy increases and the population 
ages, the overall prevalence of HF will continue to escalate. The increasing use 
of effective selective therapies such as neurohormonal blockade in the treatment 
of patients with HF has led to considerable improvement in their prognosis. 
During the past several decades, some studies have demonstrated the benefits of 
treatment; based on the evidence available from these studies, various national 
and international guidelines have specific recommendations for the 
evidence-based therapy with these drugs in patients with HF.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mcna.2012.07.010
PMID: 22980055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. Encephale. 2012 Sep;38(4):356-9. doi: 10.1016/j.encep.2011.11.008. Epub 2012
Jan  5.

[Chronic subdural hematoma and psychotic decompensation].

[Article in French]

Jomli R(1), Zgueb Y, Nacef F, Douki S.

Author information:
(1)Service de psychiatrie A, hÃ´pital Razi-Manouba, Tunis, Tunisie. 
rabaa.jomli@yahoo.fr

BACKGROUND: In Tunisia, with the remarkable progress in health, life expectancy 
has significantly increased these last decades. Indeed, in 2004, 9.3% of the 
population was aged over 60, and this rate is predicted to reach 17% in 2029 and 
about 29% by 2050. In the elderly, chronic subdural hematoma (HSDC) may be 
caused by even minimal trauma or occur spontaneously. The manifestations of this 
type of accumulation depend on the degree of cerebral compression and the 
localisation of the mass. They could be delirium, dementia, convulsions or 
psychiatric disorders (frontal location).
CASE REPORT: When the psychiatric presentation predominates, the decision to 
hospitalise an elderly person in a psychiatric unit is difficult and often 
avoided. We report the case of an 81 year-old man without history of medical 
condition or personal or family psychiatric history, who, in 2000, began to 
exhibit behavioural disorders, delusions of persecution and jealousy, visual 
hallucinations and sexual disinhibition. This clinical picture that set in so 
insidiously and in moderate intensity was long tolerated by the family circle. 
The patient was admitted to a psychiatric hospital in January 2008 with the 
worsening of the symptoms. The clinical examination and investigations confirmed 
the diagnosis of chronic frontoparietal subdural hematoma without compression. 
The decision in neurosurgery was to refrain from surgical drainage and 
administer high doses of steroids under supervision (clinical and biological). 
The evolution was good with progressive resorption of the hematoma to complete 
recovery. Currently, the patient is symptom free and the last CT scan on 
03/11/2010 confirms the total resorption of the hematoma.
CONCLUSION: It appears from this case and review of the literature that various 
psychiatric manifestations may reveal an HSDC and that, in the elderly, 
neuroimaging should be systematic, even for minor symptoms. The total resorption 
led to the disappearance of psychiatric symptoms in most patients, but this 
remains a topic of discussion for patients who retain residual symptoms, even 
after resorption of the mass. Caution is required when faced with an elderly 
person suffering, and we should strive to explore all possible causes before 
jumping to the conclusion of the fatality of growing old.

Copyright Â© 2011 LâEncÃ©phale, Paris. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All 
rights reserved.

