to determine if teriparatide is cost effective against oral bisphosphonates for 
two large and high risk cohorts.
METHODS: A computer simulation model was created to model treatment, 
osteoporosis related fractures, and the remaining life of PMO and GIOP patients. 
Natural mortality and additional mortality from osteoporosis related fractures 
were included in the model. Costs for treatment with both teriparatide and oral 
bisphosphonates were included. Drug efficacy was modeled as a reduction to the 
relative fracture risk for subsequent osteoporosis related fractures. Patient 
health utilities associated with age, gender, and osteoporosis related fractures 
were included in the model. Patient costs and utilities were summarized and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for teriparatide versus oral 
bisphosphonates and teriparatide versus no treatment were estimated.For each of 
the PMO and GIOP populations, two cohorts differentiated by fracture history 
were simulated. The first contained patients with both a historical vertebral 
fracture and an incident vertebral fracture. The second contained patients with 
only an incident vertebral fracture. The PMO cohorts simulated had an initial 
Bone Mineral Density (BMD) T-Score of -3.0. The GIOP cohorts simulated had an 
initial BMD T-Score of -2.5.
RESULTS: The ICERs for teriparatide versus bisphosphonate use for the one and 
two fracture PMO cohorts were €36,995 per QALY and €19,371 per QALY. The ICERs 
for teriparatide versus bisphosphonate use for the one and two fracture GIOP 
cohorts were €20,826 per QALY and €15,155 per QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The selection of teriparatide versus oral bisphosphonates as a 
first-line treatment for the high risk PMO and GIOP cohorts evaluated is 
justified at a cost per QALY threshold of €50,000.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2474-13-213
PMCID: PMC3545974
PMID: 23110626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Health Care Manag (Frederick). 2012 Oct-Dec;31(4):342-50. doi: 
10.1097/HCM.0b013e31826fe30f.

The US Organization for Economic Cooperation and Development Health Care 
spending chasm: better understanding some of the reasons for the gap and some 
suggestions as to how it might be narrowed.

Paul DP 3rd(1), Babitsky DR, Chandra A.

Author information:
(1)Marketing and Healthcare Management, Graduate Concentration in Healthcare 
Management, Department of Management and Marketing Leon Hess School of Business, 
Monmouth University, West Long Branch, New Jersey 077664, USA. 
dpaul@monmouth.edu

Comparisons of health care spending between the United States and the rest of 
the world are frequently made. This article examines macrolevel secondary data 
comparing health care spending in the United States and other OECD countries, 
but this comparison does not necessarily present a complete picture. This 
article puts the US OECD health care spending gap into better context by 
examining the implications of population differences, quality-of-life spending, 
obesity trends, and defensive medicine and their contribution to US health care 
costs.

DOI: 10.1097/HCM.0b013e31826fe30f
PMID: 23111486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2012 Nov;168(5):967-79. doi:
10.1007/s12010-012-9800-y.  Epub 2012 Nov 1.

Selection of single chain variable fragments specific for the human-inducible 
costimulator using ribosome display.

Pan Y(1), Mao W, Liu X, Xu C, He Z, Wang W, Yan H.

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Province Key Laboratory for Molecular and Medical Biotechnology, 
College of Life Sciences, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing, People's Republic 
of China.

We applied a ribosome display technique to a mouse single chain variable 
fragment (scFv) library to select scFvs specific for the inducible costimulator 
(ICOS). mRNA was isolated from the spleens of BALB/c mice immunized with ICOS 
protein. Heavy and κ chain genes (VH and κ) were amplified separately by reverse 
transcriptase polymerase chain reaction, and the anti-ICOS VH/κ chain ribosome 
display library was constructed with a special flexible linker by overlap 
extension PCR. The VH/κ chain library was transcribed and translated in vitro 
using a rabbit reticulocyte lysate system. Then, antibody-ribosome-mRNA 
complexes were produced and panned against ICOS protein under appropriate 
conditions. However, in order to isolate specific scFvs for ICOS, negative 
selection using CD28 was carried out before three rounds of positive selection 
on ICOS. After three rounds of panning, the selected scFv DNAs were cloned into 
pET43.1a and detected by SDS-PAGE. Then, enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay 
showed that we successfully constructed a native ribosome display library, and 
among seven clones, clone 5 had the highest affinity for the ICOS and low for 
the CD28. Anti-ICOS scFvs are assessed for binding specificity and affinity and 
may provide the potential for development of the humanized and acute and chronic 
allograft rejection.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-012-9800-y
PMID: 23111920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. J Blood Med. 2012;3:119-29. doi: 10.2147/JBM.S27400. Epub 2012 Oct 19.

Treating thalassemia major-related iron overload: the role of deferiprone.

Berdoukas V(1), Farmaki K, Carson S, Wood J, Coates T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Children's Hospital Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, CA, USA.

Over the last 20 years, management for thalassemia major has improved to the 
point where we predict that patients' life expectancy will approach that of the 
normal population. These outcomes result from safer blood transfusions, the 
availability of three iron chelators, new imaging techniques that allow specific 
organ assessment of the degree of iron overload, and improvement in the 
treatment of hepatitis. In October 2011, the Food and Drug Administration 
licensed deferiprone, further increasing the available choices for iron 
chelation in the US. The ability to prescribe any of the three chelators as well 
as their combinations has led to more effective reduction of total body iron. 
The ability to determine the amount of iron in the liver and heart by magnetic 
resonance imaging allows the prescription of the most appropriate chelation 
regime for patients and to reconsider what our aims with respect to total body 
iron should be. Recent evidence from Europe has shown that by normalizing iron 
stores not only are new morbidities prevented but also reversal of many 
complications such as cardiac failure, hypothyroidism, hypogonadism, impaired 
glucose tolerance, and type 2 diabetes can occur, improving survival and 
patients' quality of life. The most effective way to achieve normal iron stores 
seems to be with the combination of deferoxamine and deferiprone. Furthermore, 
outcomes should continue to improve in the future. Starting relative intensive 
chelation in younger children may prevent short stature and abnormal pubertal 
maturation as well as other iron-related morbidities. Also, further information 
should become available on the use of other combinations in chelation treatment, 
some of which have been used only in a very limited fashion to date. All these 
advances in management require absolute cooperation and understanding of 
parents, children, and, subsequently, the patients themselves. Only with such 
cooperation can normal long-term survival be achieved, as adherence to treatment 
is now likely the primary barrier to longevity.

DOI: 10.2147/JBM.S27400
PMCID: PMC3480237
PMID: 23112580


532. Iran J Public Health. 2010;39(1):42-56. Epub 2010 Mar 31.

Iran Mortality and Measures of Risk: Rankings for Public policy.

Aalabaf-Sabaghi M(1).

Author information:
(1)E.C.O. College of Insurance, Allameh Tabatabai University, Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: This paper offers mortality risk rankings for Iranian mortality 
data. It extends methods to include mixed cohorts, tests changes in mortality 
risks, compares measures of risk and discusses public policy implications.
METHODS: The methodology used in risk measures takes current practice and 
extends it to include variations in population dynamics. The specification is 
presented and compared with existing literature.
RESULTS: Our findings confirm literature results in the re-ordering that takes 
place when different risk measures are used. In addition, we find there is 
consistency in risk rankings between 1999 and 2000 records of Iranian mortality 
data. Thus, these risk measures are stable, robust across time and relay risk 
information consistently.
CONCLUSIONS: There are considerable implications in adopting particular risk 
measures for public policy. However, given properties of risk measures discussed 
here, it is clear that policy makers can select relevant risk measures depending 
on their priorities.

PMCID: PMC3468977
PMID: 23112989


533. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2012 Nov 1;10(6):381-95. doi: 
10.1007/BF03261873.

Cost effectiveness of guanfacine extended-release versus atomoxetine for the 
treatment of attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder: application of a 
matching-adjusted indirect comparison.

Erder MH(1), Xie J, Signorovitch JE, Chen KS, Hodgkins P, Lu M, Wu EQ, Sikirica 
V.

Author information:
(1)Shire Development LLC, Wayne, PA 19087, USA.

Erratum in
    Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2013 Jun;11(3):309. Dosage error in 
published abstract; MEDLINE/PubMed abstract corrected.

Comment in
    Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2013 Jun;11(3):305.
    Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2013 Jun;11(3):307.

BACKGROUND: About 7% of children and adolescents are diagnosed with 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD) in the US. Patients with ADHD 
who are intolerant of or do not have an optimal response to stimulants often use 
non-stimulants as alternative therapies. Guanfacine extended-release (GXR) and 
atomoxetine (ATX) are the only non-stimulants approved by the US Food and Drug 
Administration for once-daily use in the treatment of children and adolescents 
with ADHD in the US. ATX has been on the market since 2002 while GXR was 
recently approved in 2009. To date, there is no comparative effectiveness or 
cost-effectiveness study comparing the two drugs.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to assess the cost effectiveness of GXR 
versus ATX for the treatment of ADHD in children and adolescents, using the 
comparative efficacy results from a matching-adjusted indirect comparison 
(MAIC).
METHODS: The MAIC method was used to compare the efficacy between GXR (target 
dose and lower doses) and ATX (target dose) in the absence of head-to-head 
clinical trials. Individual patients in the GXR trials were weighted such that 
the summary baseline characteristics and the efficacy of the placebo arm of the 
GXR trials matched exactly with those from published ATX trials. After 
weighting, the efficacy (i.e. change in the ADHD rating scale, fourth edition 
[ADHD-RS-IV] total score from baseline) was compared between each GXR dosing 
group and the ATX group. The results from the MAIC analyses were used to 
populate a 1-year Markov model that is used to compare the cost effectiveness of 
GXR versus ATX from a US third-party payer perspective. Effectiveness outcomes 
for each treatment group were estimated as the proportion of responders, defined 
as patients with ≥25% reduction in ADHD-RS-IV total score from baseline, and 
average quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Utilities associated with 
response/non-response and disutilities due to adverse events were applied in the 
model. Costs included drug and medical service costs and were inflated to 2011 
US dollars ($US). Incremental cost/QALY and incremental cost/responder were 
estimated. Univariate sensitivity analyses were conducted by varying all model 
parameters, including costs, utilities, and response rate.
RESULTS: The target dose of GXR was 0.12 mg/kg/day. In match-adjusted 
populations with balanced baseline characteristics, patients receiving GXR at 
the dose of 0.09-0.12(p = 0.0016) [DOSAGE ERROR CORRECTED] and 
0.075-0.09 mg/kg/day (p = 0.0248) had better efficacy, while those receiving GXR 
at the dose of 0.046-0.075 mg/kg/day had comparable efficacy (p = 0.0699), 
compared with patients receiving ATX at the target dose of 1.2 mg/kg/day. In the 
base case of the cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA), GXR had incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of $US10 637/QALY and $US853/responder, compared with 
ATX (incremental costs: $US74; incremental effectiveness: 0.007 QALYs and 86 
responders per 1000 patients treated). Results of all univariate sensitivity 
analyses showed that the model results were robust to changes in model inputs.
CONCLUSIONS: To our knowledge, this is the first application of the novel 
comparative efficacy method of MAIC to a CEA model. The MAIC results indicate 
that GXR (0.075-0.12 mg/kg/day) was more effective than ATX (1.2 mg/kg/day) in 
the trial population. The CEA results indicate that GXR is cost effective 
compared with ATX for the treatment of ADHD in children and adolescents.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03261873
PMID: 23113551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Qual Prim Care. 2012;20(5):317-20.

Healthcare in Asia: a perspective from primary care at the gateway to a 
continent.

Jiwa M, Othman S, Hanafi NS, Ng CJ, Khoo EM, Chia YC.

Malaysia has achieved reasonable health outcomes even though the country spends 
a modest amount of Gross Domestic Product on healthcare. However, the country is 
now experiencing a rising incidence of both infectious diseases and chronic 
lifestyle conditions that reflect growing wealth in a vibrant and successful 
economy. With an eye on an ageing population, reform of the health sector is a 
government priority. As in other many parts of the world, general practitioners 
are the first healthcare professional consulted by patients. The Malaysian 
health system is served by public and private care providers. The integration of 
the two sectors is a key target for reform. However, the future health of the 
nation will depend on leadership in the primary care sector. This leadership 
will need to be informed by research to integrate care providers, empower 
patients, bridge cultural gaps and ensure equitable access to scarce health 
resources.

PMID: 23113999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Psychiatr Danub. 2012 Oct;24 Suppl 3:S311-5.

Is acute and transient psychotic disorder (ATPD) mini schizophrenia? The 
evidence from phenomenology and epidemiology.

Farooq S(1).

Author information:
(1)Staffordshire University, Black Country partnership NHS Foundation Trust, 
Wolverhampton, UK. sfarooqlrh@yahoo.com

Acute and transient psychotic disorders (ATPD) first appeared in ICD-10 but 
classification of acute psychosis has a long historical tradition. The 
prevalence rate of these disorders varies from 3.9 to 9.6 per 100,000 
populations. Systematic clinical information that would provide definitive 
guidance on the classification of acute psychotic disorders is not yet 
available. Moreover there is no evidence available to guide the treatment of 
these disorders. In absence of the reliable epidemiological information the ATPD 
is treated as a form of 'mini schizophrenia' as if the disorder is an attenuated 
form of schizophrenia. A systematic review of the literature on acute and 
transient psychosis was conducted and all studies on epidemiology and treatment 
of acute and transient psychosis were identified. The existing evidence 
suggested that ATPD has little relationship with schizophrenia. ATPD is 
diagnostically unstable over time. Various estimates suggest that about 1/3 of 
patients with baseline ATPD retained their diagnosis over 3-12 years, the most 
frequent re-diagnosis being bipolar disorder and not schizophrenia. There are 
important differences in the epidemiology of this disorder from schizophrenia. 
These include gender distribution (ATPD has preponderance of females while equal 
gender distribution is one of the most established finding in epidemiology of 
schizophrenia) and much better premorbid level of functioning and social 
interactions. Other distinguishing features include the age at onset (onset 
throughout adult life, but usually between the 30- 50 years), development, and 
duration of symptoms (ATPD have an acute or even abrupt onset and the onset is 
only rarely precipitated by acute severe stress) and usually a favourable 
outcome, in spite of the fact that they are frequently recurrent. Literature on 
the subject is scanty and has serious methodological limitations. Treating ATPD 
has serious long term implications for the care of those suffering from ATPD. 
Long term treatments with antipsychotics which can induce metabolic disorders 
and reduce life expectancy, amongst many other side effects mean that we have to 
reconsider our approach to the diagnosis of ATPD seriously. Treating the acute 
and transient psychosis as a mini schizophrenia is seriously hindering research 
and clinical practice. I will review the epidemiology and phenomenology of acute 
and transient psychotic disorder, the current gaps in knowledge and its effects 
on our clinical practice in the light of systematic review of the evidence.

PMID: 23114808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Soins. 2012 Sep;(768):10.

[The French do not take care of themselves as much as they think].

[Article in French]

Barsky E.

PMID: 23115917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Aviakosm Ekolog Med. 2012 Jul-Aug;46(4):48-52.

[Methods of bio-engineering destruction of root residues in application to a 
space vitamin greenhouse with ionite artificial soil].

[Article in Russian]

[No authors listed]

Regeneration of ionite artificial soil (AS) in root modules (RM) of 
conveyor-type space greenhouses should be proceeded by removal of root residues 
without disruption of the AS capillary-porous structure. The proposed method 
consists of two stages of root residues destruction. On the first stage, AS 
treatment by 0.7% an alkali water solution with added 0.7% hydrogen peroxide 
over 3.5 hours in a thermal-insulation container at 95 +/- 4 degrees C reduces 
root residue mass up to 60%. Specific energy cost of SHF pulses to maintain the 
required temperature is 1 W x hr for cleaning 1 g and AS sterilization from 
saprotrophs. On the second stage, AS undergoes saturation with a liquid 
anaerobic medium for 7-day cultivation of thermophilic Clostridium thermocellum 
at 55 degrees C. Seven days of bio-engineering regeneration enables removal of 
90% root biomass. Residual products of fermentation have a stimulating effect on 
seed germination and subsequent plant growth. Bio-engineering testing of 
regenerated AS with cultivation of leaf cabbage Brassica chinensis L. attested 
to suitability of the technology for extension of AS useful life.

PMID: 23116044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Palliat Med. 2012 Nov;15(11):1270-1. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2012.9548.

Withdrawal of dialysis: decision making #207.

Davison SN(1), Rosielle DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine University of Alberta Edmonton, Alberta Canada T64 
2R3. sara.davison@ualberta.ca

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2012.9548
PMID: 23116273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Dec 1;30(12):1203-14. doi: 
10.2165/11595420-000000000-00000.

Impact of transformation of negative values and regression models on differences 
between the UK and US EQ-5D time trade-off value sets.

Augestad LA(1), Rand-Hendriksen K, Kristiansen IS, Stavem K.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Centre, Akershus University Hospital, Lrenskog, 
Norway. l.a.augestad@medisin.uio.no

BACKGROUND: National EQ-5D value sets are developed because preferences for 
health may vary in different populations. UK values are lower than US values for 
most of the 243 possible EQ-5D health states. Although similar protocols were 
used for data collection, analytic choices regarding how to model values from 
the collected data may also influence national value sets. Participants in the 
UK and US studies assessed the same subset of 42 EQ-5D health states using the 
time trade-off (TTO) method. However, different methods were used to transform 
negative values to a range bounded by 0 and -1, and values for all 243 health 
states were estimated using two different regression models. The transformation 
of negative values is inconsistent with expected utility theory, and the choice 
of which transformation method to use lacks a theoretical foundation.
OBJECTIVES: Our objectives were to assess how much of the observed difference 
between the UK and US EQ-5D value sets may be explained by the choice of 
transformation method for negative values relative to the choice of regression 
model and the differences between elicited TTO values in the respective national 
studies (datasets).
METHODS: We applied both transformation methods and both regression models to 
each of the two datasets, resulting in eight comparable value sets. We arranged 
these value sets in pairs in which one source of difference (transformation 
method, regression model or dataset) was varied. For each of these paired value 
sets, we calculated the mean difference between the two matching values for each 
of the 243 health states. Finally, we calculated the mean utility gain for all 
possible transitions between pairs of EQ-5D health states within each value set 
and used the difference in transition scores as a measure of impact from 
changing transformation method, regression model or dataset.
RESULTS: The mean absolute difference in values was 1.5 times larger when 
changing the transformation method than when using different datasets. The 
choice of transformation method had a 3.2 times larger effect on the mean health 
gain (transition score) than the choice of dataset. The mean health gain in the 
UK value set was 0.09 higher than in the US value set. Using the UK 
transformation method on the US dataset reduced this absolute difference to 
0.02. The choice of regression model had little overall impact on the 
differences between the value sets.
CONCLUSIONS: Most of the observed differences between the UK and US value sets 
were caused by the use of different transformation methods for negative values, 
rather than differences between the two study populations as reflected in the 
datasets. Changing the regression model had little impact on the differences 
between the value sets.

DOI: 10.2165/11595420-000000000-00000
PMID: 23116290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2012 Nov 1;12:99. doi: 10.1186/1471-2261-12-99.

Heart failure among Indigenous Australians: a systematic review.

Woods JA(1), Katzenellenbogen JM, Davidson PM, Thompson SC.

Author information:
(1)Combined Universities Centre for Rural Health, PO Box 109, Geraldton, WA 
6531, Australia. john.woods@uwa.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases contribute substantially to the poor health 
and reduced life expectancy of Indigenous Australians. Heart failure is a 
common, disabling, progressive and costly complication of these disorders. The 
epidemiology of heart failure and the adequacy of relevant health service 
provision in Indigenous Australians are not well delineated.
METHODS: A systematic search of the electronic databases PubMed, Embase, Web of 
Science, Cinahl Plus, Informit and Google Scholar was undertaken in April 2012 
for peer-reviewed journal articles relevant to the topic of heart failure in 
Indigenous Australians. Additionally, a website search was done to identify 
other pertinent publications, particularly government reports.
RESULTS: There was a paucity of relevant peer-reviewed research, and government 
reports dominated the results. Ten journal articles, 1 published conference 
abstract and 10 reports were eligible for inclusion. Indigenous Australians 
reportedly have higher morbidity and mortality from heart failure than their 
non-Indigenous counterparts (age-standardised prevalence ratio 1.7; 
age-standardised hospital separation ratio ≥3; crude per capita hospital 
expenditure ratio 1.58; age-adjusted mortality ratio >2). Despite the evident 
disproportionate burden of heart failure in Indigenous Australians, the accuracy 
of estimation from administrative data is limited by poor indigenous 
identification, inadequate case ascertainment and exclusion of younger subjects 
from mortality statistics. A recent journal article specifically documented a 
high prevalence of heart failure in Central Australian Aboriginal adults (5.3%), 
noting frequent undiagnosed disease. One study examined barriers to health 
service provision for Indigenous Australians in the context of heart failure.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the shortcomings of available published data, it is clear 
that Indigenous Australians have an excess burden of heart failure. Emerging 
data suggest that undiagnosed cases may be common in this population. In order 
to optimise management and to inform policy, high quality research on heart 
failure in Indigenous Australians is required to delineate accurate 
epidemiological indicators and to appraise health service provision.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2261-12-99
PMCID: PMC3521206
PMID: 23116367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. S Afr Med J. 2012 Sep 7;102(11 Pt 1):830-2. doi: 10.7196/samj.5779.

Models for increasing the health workforce.

Essack SY(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, University of KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa. 
essacks@ukzn.ac.za

A stable human resource base in the health sector is critical to achieving 
health-related Millennium Development Goals. There is a severe quantitative and 
qualitative shortfall of healthcare professionals in South Africa, and the 
existing and future health workforce production is inadequate for our healthcare 
needs. The production model must include all healthcare disciplines because the 
quadruple burden of disease necessitates multi-professional healthcare teams 
working synergistically to improve health outcomes and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.7196/samj.5779
PMID: 23116735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2012 Dec;44(6):543-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ejvs.2012.10.002.  Epub 2012 Oct 30.

Cost-effectiveness at two years in the VA Open Versus Endovascular Repair Trial.

Lederle FA(1), Stroupe KT; Open Versus Endovascular Repair (OVER) Veterans 
Affairs Cooperative Study Group.

Collaborators: Ketteler ER, Kingsley DD, Marek JM, Massen RJ, Matteson BD, 
Pitcher J, Langsfeld M, Corson JD, Goff JM Jr, Kasirajan K, Paap C, Robertson 
DC, Salam A, Veeraswamy R, Milner R, Kasirajan K, Guidot J, Lal BK, Busuttil SJ, 
Lilly MP, Braganza M, Ellis K, Patterson MA, Jordan WD, Whitley D, Taylor S, 
Passman M, Kerns D, Inman C, Poirier J, Ebaugh J, Raffetto J, Chew D, Lathi S, 
Owens C, Hickson K, Dosluoglu HH, Eschberger K, Kibbe MR, Baraniewski HM, 
Matsumura J, Endo M, Busman A, Meadows W, Evans M, Giglia JS, El Sayed H, Reed 
AB, Ruf M, Ross S, Jean-Claude JM, Pinault G, Kang P, White N, Eiseman M, Jones 
R, Timaran CH, Modrall J, Welborn M 3rd, Lopez J, Nguyen T, Chacko JK, Granke K, 
Vouyouka AG, Olgren E, Chand P, Allende B, Ranella M, Yales C, Whitehill TA, 
Krupski WC, Nehler MR, Johnson SP, Jones DN, Strecker P, Bhola MA, Shortell CK, 
Gray JL, Lawson JH, McCann R, Sebastian MW, Tetterton JK, Blackwell C, Prinzo 
PA, Lee N, Padberg FT, Cerveira JJ, Lal BK, Zickler RW, Hauck KA, Berceli SA, 
Lee W, Ozaki C, Nelson PR, Irwin AS, Baum R, Aulivola B, Rodriguez H, Littooy 
FN, Greisler H, O'Sullivan MT, Kougias P, Lin PH, Bush RL, Guinn G, Bechara C, 
Cagiannos C, Pillack S, Guillory B, Cikrit D, Lalka SG, Lemmon G, Nachreiner R, 
Rusomaroff M, O'Brien E, Cullen JJ, Hoballah J, Sharp W, McCandless JL, Beach V, 
Minion D, Schwarcz TH, Kimbrough J, Ashe L, Rockich A, Warner J, Moursi M, Eidt 
JF, Brock S, Bianchi C, Bishop V, Gordon IL, Fujitani R, Kubaska SM 3rd, Behdad 
M, Azadegan R, Agas CM, Zalecki K, Hoch JR, Carr SC, Acher C, Schwarze M, Tefera 
G, Mell M, Dunlap B, Rieder J, Stuart JM, Weiman DS, Abul-Khoudoud O, Garrett H, 
Walsh SM, Wilson KL, Seabrook GR, Cambria RA, Brown KR, Lewis BD, Framberg S, 
Kallio C, Barke RA, Santilli SM, d'Audiffret AC, Oberle N, Proebstle C, Johnson 
LL, Jacobowitz GR, Cayne N, Rockman C, Adelman M, Gagne P, Nalbandian M, 
Caropolo LJ, Pipinos II, Johanning J, Lynch T, DeSpiegelaere H, Purviance G, 
Zhou W, Dalman R, Lee JT, Safadi B, Coogan SM, Wren SM, Bahmani DD, Maples D, 
Thunen S, Golden M, Mitchell ME, Fairman R, Reinhardt S, Wilson MA, Tzeng E, 
Muluk S, Peterson NM, Foster M, Edwards J, Moneta GL, Landry G, Taylor L, Yeager 
R, Cannady E, Treiman G, Hatton-Ward S, Salabsky B, Kansal N, Owens E, Estes M, 
Forbes BA, Sobotta C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (III-0), Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 1 Veterans 
Drive, Minneapolis MN 55417, United States. frank.lederle@va.gov

BACKGROUND: Long-term clinical outcomes have been similar for endovascular and 
open repair of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA), increasing the importance of 
comparing cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: We compared data to two years from a multicenter randomized trial of 
881 patients. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated from EQ-5D 
questionnaires. Healthcare utilization data were obtained from patients and from 
national VA and Medicare sources. VA costs were obtained using methods 
previously developed by the VA Health Economics Resource Center. Costs for 
non-VA care were determined from Medicare or billing data.
RESULTS: Mean life-years were 1.78 in the endovascular and 1.74 in the open 
repair group (P = 0.29), and mean QALYs were 1.462 in the endovascular and 1.461 
in the open group (P = 0.78). Although graft costs were higher in the 
endovascular group ($14,052 vs. $1363; P < 0.001), length of stay was shorter 
(5.0 vs. 10.5 days; P < 0.001), resulting in lower cost of AAA repair 
hospitalization in the endovascular group ($37,068 vs. $42,970; P = 0.04). Costs 
remained lower after 2 years in the endovascular group but the difference was no 
longer significant (-$5019; 95% CI: -$16,720 to $4928; P = 0.35). The 
probability that endovascular repair was both more effective and less costly was 
70.9% for life-years and 51.4% for QALYs.
INTERPRETATION: Endovascular repair is a cost-effective alternative to open 
repair in the US VA healthcare system for at least the first two years.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2012.10.002
PMID: 23116986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. J Epidemiol. 2012;22(6):551-8. doi: 10.2188/jea.JE20120015. Epub 2012 Oct
27.

The Hatoyama Cohort Study: design and profile of participants at baseline.

Murayama H(1), Nishi M, Shimizu Y, Kim MJ, Yoshida H, Amano H, Fujiwara Y, 
Shinkai S.

Author information:
(1)Research Team for Social Participation and Community Health, Tokyo 
Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Tokyo, Japan. murayama@tmig.or.jp

BACKGROUND: Investigation of frailty among elderly adults and development of 
prevention strategies to address this are critical in delaying progression of 
functional decline and thus extending healthy life expectancy. However, there 
has been no Japanese epidemiologic cohort study of frailty. The Hatoyama Cohort 
Study was launched in 2010 to identify factors that predict functional decline 
and to establish strategies to prevent frailty among community-dwelling elderly 
Japanese. This report describes the study design and the profile of the 
participants at baseline.
METHODS: The Hatoyama Cohort Study is a prospective study of community-dwelling 
individuals aged 65 years or older living in the town of Hatoyama in Saitama 
Prefecture, Japan. Comprehensive information, including socioeconomic status, 
physiological indicators, physical, psychological, and cognitive function, 
social capital, neighborhood environment, and frailty, was collected in a 
baseline survey using face-to-face interviews in September 2010. Survival time, 
long-term care insurance certification, and medical and long-term care costs 
after the baseline survey will be followed. In addition, a follow-up survey will 
be conducted in the same manner as the baseline survey every 2 years.
RESULTS: A total of 742 people participated in the baseline survey (mean age: 
71.9 ± 5.2 years, men: 57.7%, living alone: 7.7%). Almost all participants were 
independent in their daily lives, and approximately 10% were categorized as 
frail on the kaigo-yobo (care prevention) checklist.
CONCLUSIONS: The Hatoyama Cohort Study is expected to contribute to the 
development of strategies that prevent frailty in later life and extend healthy 
life expectancy in Japan's rapidly aging society.

【背景】: 
高齢期の虚弱の解明とその予防策の検討は、生活機能低下の進展を遅らせ、健康余命を延伸させるために重要である。しかし、虚弱に焦点を当てた疫学研究は未だ日本に存在しない。日本人地域在住高齢者の生活機能低下の予測因子を検討し、虚弱予防に向けた対策を確立するため、2010年に鳩山コホート研究を立ち上げた。本報では、鳩山コホート研究の研究デザインとベースライン時における研究参加者の特性について記述する。
【方法】: 
鳩山コホート研究は、埼玉県鳩山町に在住する65歳以上の高齢者を対象にした前向き研究である。2010年9月、面接方式によるベースライン調査において、社会経済的状態、生理学的・身体的・心理的・認知的機能、ソーシャルキャピタル、近隣環境、そして虚弱指標を含む包括的情報が収集された。死亡、転出、介護保険認定、医療・介護給付費に関する情報をベースライン調査以降追跡している。また、ベースライン調査と同様の形式を用い、2年毎の追跡調査を実施することにしている。
【結果】: 
ベースライン調査には742名が参加した（平均年齢71.9±5.2歳、男性57.7%、独居7.7%）。ほぼ全員が日常生活動作は自立しており、約10%が「介護予防チェックリスト」によって虚弱と判定された。
【結論】: 急速な高齢化が進む日本において、鳩山コホート研究は後期高齢期の虚弱予防、および健康余命の延伸に向けた対策の確立に寄与することが期待できる。

DOI: 10.2188/jea.JE20120015
PMCID: PMC3798568
PMID: 23117221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Age Ageing. 2013 Mar;42(2):222-9. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afs160. Epub 2012 Oct
31.

Objective measurements of daily physical activity patterns and sedentary 
behaviour in older adults: Age, Gene/Environment Susceptibility-Reykjavik Study.

Arnardottir NY(1), Koster A, Van Domelen DR, Brychta RJ, Caserotti P, 
Eiriksdottir G, Sverrisdottir JE, Launer LJ, Gudnason V, Johannsson E, Harris 
TB, Chen KY, Sveinsson T.

Author information:
(1)Research Center of Movement Science, University of Iceland, Stapi 
v/Hringbraut, Reykjavík 101, Iceland. nya@hi.is

BACKGROUND: objectively measured population physical activity (PA) data from 
older persons is lacking. The aim of this study was to describe free-living PA 
patterns and sedentary behaviours in Icelandic older men and women using 
accelerometer.
METHODS: from April 2009 to June 2010, 579 AGESII-study participants aged 73-98 
years wore an accelerometer (Actigraph GT3X) at the right hip for one complete 
week in the free-living settings.
RESULTS: in all subjects, sedentary time was the largest component of the total 
wear time, 75%, followed by low-light PA, 21%. Moderate-vigorous PA (MVPA) was 
<1%. Men had slightly higher average total PA (counts × day(-1)) than women. The 
women spent more time in low-light PA but less time in sedentary PA and MVPA 
compared with men (P < 0.001). In persons <75 years of age, 60% of men and 34% 
of women had at least one bout ≥10 min of MVPA, which decreased with age, with 
only 25% of men and 9% of women 85 years and older reaching this.
CONCLUSION: sedentary time is high in this Icelandic cohort, which has high 
life-expectancy and is living north of 60° northern latitude.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afs160
PMCID: PMC3575120
PMID: 23117467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Ther Adv Med Oncol. 2012 Nov;4(6):321-7. doi: 10.1177/1758834012455684.

Older patients with breast cancer: is there bias in the treatment they receive?

Markopoulos C(1), van de Water W.

Author information:
(1)Athens University Medical School and Department of Surgery - Breast Unit, 8 
Lassiou Street, 11521 iassiou, Athens, Greece.

Breast cancer is the most frequent malignant tumor in women worldwide and as 
breast cancer incidence increases with increasing age, over 40% of new cases are 
diagnosed in women older than 65 years of age. However, older patients are not 
treated to the same extent as younger patients and increasing age at diagnosis 
predicts deviation from guidelines for all treatment modalities. Evidence-based 
medicine in older patients is lacking as they are usually excluded from clinical 
trials often because of existing comorbidities and limited life expectancy. 
Accordingly, there is a higher competing risk of death from other causes than 
breast cancer compared with younger patients and this may have led to the false 
interpretation that prognosis of breast cancer in older patients is relatively 
good. However, every treatment modality should be evaluated during treatment 
decision making. Multimodal therapy should not be routinely withheld as data 
show that disease-specific mortality increases with age, probably due to 
undertreatment. Prognostic markers, fitness and comorbidities rather than 
chronological age should determine optimal, individualized therapy. It is 
recommended that treatment decisions should be discussed in a multidisciplinary 
setting, ideally in combination with any form of geriatric assessment, to 
improve breast cancer outcome in the older population.

DOI: 10.1177/1758834012455684
PMCID: PMC3481560
PMID: 23118807

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: Christos 
Markopoulos received educational grants and lecture honoraria from AstraZeneca, 
Novartis (Basel, Switzerland), and Pfizer Inc. (New York, NY, USA). Willemien 
van de Water has no conflict of interest to report. No writing assistance was 
utilized in the production of this manuscript.


546. Indian J Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2001 Oct;53(4):267-9. doi: 
10.1007/BF02991544.

Gerontology in ENT (Geriatric Otolaryngology) - an over view.

Sahoo GC(1).

Author information:
(1)RMMC & Hospital, Annamalai University, B- 4, R. S. A. Housing Complex, 
Annamalainagar - 608 002, Chidambaram, S. A. V. District, Tamil Nadu.

Age and ageing is a biological property of all living beings. It has been 
estimated that there would be more than 120 crore people by 2020 over 65 years 
in the world out of which 90 crores alone n.ill be in the developed countries. 
At present there are than 30% people in Europe who are more than 60 Years the 
highest being in Sweden. Lin India the percentage of old people is around 10 
which is comparatively low. But the total number of such people is very 
significant due to the vast population, increasing life expectancy and better 
health care. Hence there is an increasing awareness of the multitude problems in 
the field of geriatic Otolaryngology due to various degenerative changes in the 
Head and Neck region. Not only the affection of the special sense organs of 
hearing & olfaction reduces the quality of life but also the life span is 
reduced as head & neck malignancy is very common in old age. The cosmetic 
problems of an ageing face poses a formidable challenge due to the ever 
increasing appetite for a youthful appearance in the modern soicety.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02991544
PMCID: PMC3450501
PMID: 23119819


547. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2012 Sep;137(37):1786-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1327765.

[HIV patients in Germany: new problems due to increased life expectancy].

[Article in German]

Weiß J.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1327765
PMID: 23120764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Glob J Health Sci. 2012 Oct 10;4(6):179-84. doi: 10.5539/gjhs.v4n6p179.

Brain damage treated with non proven intensive training 2003-2011: a Norwegian 
cost analysis.

Norum J(1), Ramsvik A, Tjeldnes K.

Author information:
(1)Northern Norway Regional Health Authority trust , Bodo, Norway. 
jan.norum@helse-nord.no

OBJECTIVES: There has been an increased request for intensive training and 
rehabilitation of patients with brain damage in Norway. These programs are 
demanding with regard to personnel, travelling, time and economic resources. We 
aimed to indicate cost and gain to make these programs cost-effective.
METHODS: A retrospective study included all patients referred to the Northern 
Norway Regional Health Authority (NNRHA) trust during the nine years period 
2003-2011. All referrals to the NNRHA trust for the economic coverage of foreign 
based rehabilitation or habilitation programs (The Advanced Bio-Mechanical 
Rehabilitation (ABR), Institutes of Achievement of Human Potential program 
(IAHP) (Doman Method), Family Hope Center (FHC) program and the Kozijavkin 
Method) were included. 17 patients were detected and 15 fulfilled the inclusion 
criteria for funding. Median age was 8 years (1-31 years). Cost from the 
specialist health care point of view was calculated. A cut-off limit of 
€57,000/quality adjusted life year (QALY) and a 4% discount rate was employed.
RESULTS: The undiscounted cost per patient enrolled was calculated €133,210 
(discounted €121,348). To make these therapies cost effective, a total of at 
least 2.13 QALYs (2.34 undiscounted QALYs) must be gained per patient enrolled. 
Such a gain could not be indicated and we doubt it is achievable.
CONCLUSION: Non-proven intensive training programs for patients with brain 
damage are costly. As long as their effect has not been documented, health care 
services should not spend resources on these programs outside clinical trials.

DOI: 10.5539/gjhs.v4n6p179
PMCID: PMC4776988
PMID: 23121754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. J Mal Vasc. 2012 Dec;37(6):295-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jmv.2012.09.002. Epub 2012
Oct  31.

Objective for 2015: 70% of treated and controlled hypertensive patients. Seven 
key points to reach this goal in practice. A joint call for action of the French 
League Against Hypertension and the French Society of Hypertension.

Mourad JJ(1), Girerd X.

Author information:
(1)Maison du cœur, 5, rue des Colonnes-du-Trône, 75012 Paris, France. 
Jean-jacques.mourad@avc.aphp.fr

Comment in
    J Mal Vasc. 2012 Dec;37(6):281-2.

For the past 50 years, the implementation of therapeutic advances to the largest 
number of people has made it possible to have an exemplary reduction in 
cardiovascular mortality, contributing to extension of life expectancy observed 
in France. Nevertheless, such gains are fragile, and largely dependent on the 
quality of blood pressure control. The relative stagnation of blood pressure 
control in France for the last 5 years is potentially one of its early markers. 
The French League against Hypertension and the French Society of Hypertension, 
with the support of the French Ministry of Health, have decided to combine their 
efforts to provide a new impetus to management of this disease and to make blood 
pressure control a priority. An ambitious improvement of the percentage of 
controlled hypertensive patients from 50% to 70% in 2015 is targeted. To achieve 
this goal, a simplified decisional algorithm is proposed: seven key points 
dedicated to general practice are emphasized.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmv.2012.09.002
PMID: 23122678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2012 Dec 25;60(25):2683-92. doi:
10.1016/j.jacc.2012.09.018.  Epub 2012 Nov 1.

Cost-effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve replacement compared with 
surgical aortic valve replacement in high-risk patients with severe aortic 
stenosis: results of the PARTNER (Placement of Aortic Transcatheter Valves) 
trial (Cohort A).

Reynolds MR(1), Magnuson EA, Lei Y, Wang K, Vilain K, Li H, Walczak J, Pinto DS, 
Thourani VH, Svensson LG, Mack MJ, Miller DC, Satler LE, Bavaria J, Smith CR, 
Leon MB, Cohen DJ; PARTNER Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Clinical Research Institute, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013 Apr 23;61(16):1748.
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013 Apr 23;61(16):1747-8.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) compared with surgical aortic 
valve replacement (AVR) for patients with severe aortic stenosis and high 
surgical risk.
BACKGROUND: TAVR is an alternative to AVR for patients with severe aortic 
stenosis and high surgical risk.
METHODS: We performed a formal economic analysis based on cost, quality of life, 
and survival data collected in the PARTNER A (Placement of Aortic Transcatheter 
Valves) trial in which patients with severe aortic stenosis and high surgical 
risk were randomized to TAVR or AVR. Cumulative 12-month costs (assessed from a 
U.S. societal perspective) and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were compared 
separately for the transfemoral (TF) and transapical (TA) cohorts.
RESULTS: Although 12-month costs and QALYs were similar for TAVR and AVR in the 
overall population, there were important differences when results were 
stratified by access site. In the TF cohort, total 12-month costs were slightly 
lower with TAVR and QALYs were slightly higher such that TF-TAVR was 
economically dominant compared with AVR in the base case and economically 
attractive (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio <$50,000/QALY) in 70.9% of 
bootstrap replicates. In the TA cohort, 12-month costs remained substantially 
higher with TAVR, whereas QALYs tended to be lower such that TA-TAVR was 
economically dominated by AVR in the base case and economically attractive in 
only 7.1% of replicates.
CONCLUSIONS: In the PARTNER trial, TAVR was an economically attractive strategy 
compared with AVR for patients suitable for TF access. Future studies are 
necessary to determine whether improved experience and outcomes with TA-TAVR can 
improve its cost-effectiveness relative to AVR.

Copyright © 2012 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2012.09.018
PMID: 23122802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2012 Dec;106(12):743-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.trstmh.2012.09.003. Epub 2012 Nov 1.

Analysis of economic burden for patients with cystic echinococcosis in five 
hospitals in northwest China.

Wang L(1), Wen H, Feng X, Jiang X, Duan X.

Author information:
(1)First Affiliated Hospital of Xinjiang Medical University, Urumqi, Xinjiang, 
PR China.

The direct and indirect economic burden of human cystic echinococcosis (CE) was 
investigated in the five specialist hydatid hospitals in Xinjiang, PR China, to 
provide information for health policy in the future. A total of 2018 CE patients 
(age range 2-88 years) attending the hospitals were studied between 2004 and 
2008. The per-person direct medical cost was US$1493.12 (95% CI 1438.43-1547.80) 
and the per-person direct non-medical cost was US$19.67. The indirect economic 
cost was US$1435.96 per person, and the disability-adjusted life-years (DALY) 
lost was approximately 1.03 DALY/person. This study is the first to combine the 
human capital method with DALYs to analyse the indirect CE economic burden in 
northwest China. Factors such as age, occupation and hospital level should be 
considered when developing polices to reduce the economic burden of CE.

Copyright © 2012 Royal Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trstmh.2012.09.003
PMID: 23122883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Gait Posture. 2013 Apr;37(4):586-92. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2012.09.023.
Epub  2012 Nov 1.

Alterations in gait speed and age do not fully explain the changes in gait 
mechanics associated with healthy older women.

Alcock L(1), Vanicek N, O'Brien TD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport, Health and Exercise Science, University of Hull, HU6 
7RX, United Kingdom.

Older adults exhibit modified gait patterns compared to the young, adopting 
movement strategies in response to changes in musculoskeletal function. 
Investigating the functional mobility of older women is particularly important 
because of their increased life expectancy and greater falls risk compared to 
men. We explored the relationships between gait parameters and age in healthy 
older women whilst accounting for declining gait speeds. Kinematic and kinetic 
data were collected from thirty-nine women (60-83 years) whilst walking at a 
comfortable cadence. Regression analysis assessed the capacity of gait speed and 
age to explain the variance in gait associated with older age. Speed explained 
the majority of variance in many gait parameters. By including age in the 
regression, the total explained variance (R2) for foot clearance (70%), ankle 
plantarflexion angle (30%), peak ankle plantarflexor moment (58%), and hip power 
generation (56%) were significantly (p<0.05) greater than for speed alone. 
Nonetheless, changes in speed and age did not fully explain the variance in gait 
mechanics associated with older age and other contributing factors must exist. 
Losses of 1.2%/year in gait speed were predicted by age, exceeding previous 
predictions of -0.7%/year. Furthermore, the accumulation of apparently small 
decreases of 0.2 cm/year in peak foot-to-ground clearance has clinical 
implications and offers insight into the mechanisms by which gait becomes 
hazardous in older age.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2012.09.023
PMID: 23122897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Presse Med. 2013 Feb;42(2):160-6. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2012.09.004. Epub 2012
Nov  1.

[Which indications and access routes for transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation? Health technology assessment from HAS].

[Article in French]

Velzenberger E(1), Galmiche H, Denis C, Machecourt J.

Author information:
(1)Haute Autorité de santé, 93218 Saint-Denis-La-Plaine cedex, France. 
e.velzenberger@has-sante.fr

The transcatheter aortic valve implantation should be restricted to patients 
with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis with a contraindication for a surgical 
replacement (taking into account surgical risk scores, comorbidities, anatomical 
conditions, life expectancy and frailty). Patient eligibility should be 
performed by a heart team with the involvement of a cardiac surgeon, an 
interventional cardiologist, a clinical cardiologist and an 
anaesthetist/resuscitation specialist. The advice of a geriatrician is strongly 
recommended. The long-term efficacy remains unknown. The French National 
Authority for Health (Haute Autorité de santé [HAS]) reminds that 
contraindications in the CE mark should be strictly respected (i.e.instructions 
for use). Extension of current indications should be conditional to the 
presentation of clinical evidence. Thus, implantation in patients at lower 
surgical risk or the use of direct transaortic route are not eligible for 
reimbursement given the current state of knowledge.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2012.09.004
PMID: 23122941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Lancet Neurol. 2012 Dec;11(12):1029-38. doi: 10.1016/S1474-4422(12)70257-0.
Epub  2012 Nov 1.

Pallidal deep brain stimulation in patients with primary generalised or 
segmental dystonia: 5-year follow-up of a randomised trial.

Volkmann J(1), Wolters A, Kupsch A, Müller J, Kühn AA, Schneider GH, Poewe W, 
Hering S, Eisner W, Müller JU, Deuschl G, Pinsker MO, Skogseid IM, Roeste GK, 
Krause M, Tronnier V, Schnitzler A, Voges J, Nikkhah G, Vesper J, Classen J, 
Naumann M, Benecke R; DBS study group for dystonia.

Collaborators: Benecke R, Volkmann J, Gierl L, Gierl L, Benecke R, Deuschl G, 
Müller J, Pinsker MO, Poewe W, Volkmann J, Wolters A, Mehdorn MH, Gruber D, Kivi 
A, Kühn AA, Kupsch A, Müller B, Schneider GH, Trottenberg T, Schnitzler A, Sturm 
V, Timmermann L, Voges J, Wojtecki L, Nikkah G, Pinsker M, Prokop T, Vesper J, 
Kloss M, Krause M, Eisner W, Fiegele T, Müller J, Hering S, Poewe W, Deuschl G, 
Herzog J, Mehdorn MM, Pinsker MO, Pötter M, Steigerwald F, Volkmann J, Boothe 
HW, Brentrup A, Vollmer-Haase J, Roeste GK, Skogseid IM, Benecke R, Müller JU, 
Wittstock M, Wolters A, Classen J, Naumann M, Schramm A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Christian-Albrechts-University, Kiel, Germany. 
volkmann_j@klinik.uni-wuerzburg.de

Comment in
    Lancet Neurol. 2012 Dec;11(12):1014-5.

BACKGROUND: Severe forms of primary dystonia are difficult to manage medically. 
We assessed the safety and efficacy of pallidal neurostimulation in patients 
with primary generalised or segmental dystonia prospectively followed up for 5 
years in a controlled multicentre trial.
METHODS: In the parent trial, 40 patients were randomly assigned to either sham 
neurostimulation or neurostimulation of the internal globus pallidus for a 
period of 3 months and thereafter all patients completed 6 months of active 
neurostimulation. 38 patients agreed to be followed up annually after the 
activation of neurostimulation, including assessments of dystonia severity, 
pain, disability, and quality of life. The primary endpoint of the 5-year 
follow-up study extension was the change in dystonia severity at 3 years and 5 
years as assessed by open-label ratings of the Burke-Fahn-Marsden dystonia 
rating scale (BFMDRS) motor score compared with the preoperative baseline and 
the 6-month visit. The primary endpoint was analysed on an intention-to-treat 
basis. The original trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov (NCT00142259).
FINDINGS: An intention-to-treat analysis including all patients from the parent 
