stroke is estimated to be up to 250 times higher than in the general childhood 
population. Transcranial Doppler (TCD) ultrasonography is a non-invasive 
technique which measures local blood velocity in the proximal portions of large 
intracranial arteries. Screening with TCD ultrasonography identifies individuals 
with high cerebral blood velocity; these children are at the highest risk of 
stroke. A number of primary stroke prevention strategies are currently used in 
clinical practice in the UK including blood transfusion, treatment with 
hydroxycarbamide and bone marrow transplantation (BMT). No reviews have yet 
assessed the clinical effectiveness and cost effectiveness of primary stroke 
prevention strategies in children with SCD identified to be at high risk of 
stroke using TCD ultrasonography.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
primary stroke prevention treatments for children with SCD who are identified 
(using TCD ultrasonography) to be at high risk of stroke.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched from inception up to May 2011, 
including the Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR), the Cochrane 
Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), the Database of Abstracts of 
Reviews of Effects (DARE), EMBASE, the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) 
database, ISI Web of Science Proceedings, ISI Web of Science Citation Index, the 
NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED) and MEDLINE.
REVIEW METHODS: The assessment was conducted according to accepted procedures 
for conducting and reporting systematic reviews and economic evaluations. A de 
novo Markov model was developed to determine the cost-effectiveness of TCD 
ultrasonography and blood transfusion, where clinically appropriate, in patients 
with SCD.
RESULTS: Two randomised controlled trials met the inclusion criteria involving a 
study population of 209 participants. One compared blood transfusion with 
standard care for children who are identified as being at high risk of stroke 
using TCD ultrasonography. In this trial, one patient in the transfusion group 
had a stroke (1/63) compared with 11 children in the standard care group 
(11/67). The other trial assessed the impact of halting chronic transfusion in 
patients with SCD. Sixteen patients in the transfusion-halted group had an event 
(16/41) (two patients experienced stroke and 14 reverted to abnormal TCD 
velocity); there were no events in the continued-transfusion group (0/38). No 
meta-analyses of these trials were undertaken. No relevant economic evaluations 
were identified for inclusion in the review. The de novo modelling suggests that 
blood transfusions plus TCD scans (compared with just TCD scans) for patients 
with SCD at high risk of stroke, aged ≥ 2 years, may be good value for money. 
The intervention has an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £24,075 per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained, and helps avoid 68 strokes over the lifetime 
of a population of 1000 patients. The intervention costs an additional £13,751 
per patient and generates 0.6 extra years of life in full health per patient. 
The data available for the economic analysis are limited. Sensitivity analyses 
and validation against existing data and expert opinion provide some reassurance 
that the conclusion of the model is reliable but further research is required to 
validate these findings.
LIMITATIONS: The main limitations relate to the availability of published 
clinical data; no completed randomised controlled trials were identified which 
evaluated the efficacy of either BMT or hydroxycarbamide for primary stroke 
prevention. Both the clinical and cost data available for use in the economic 
analysis are limited. Sensitivity analyses and validation against existing data 
and expert opinion provide some reassurance that the conclusions of the model 
are reliable, but further research is required to validate these findings.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of TCD ultrasonography to identify children at high risk of 
stroke, and treating these children with prophylactic blood transfusions, 
appears to be both clinically effective and cost-effective compared with TCD 
ultrasonography only. However, given the limitations in the data available, 
further research is required to verify this conclusion. Several research 
recommendations can be proposed from this review. Clinically, more research is 
needed to assess the effects and optimal duration of long-term blood transfusion 
and the potential role of hydroxycarbamide in primary stroke prevention. From an 
economics perspective, further research is required to generate more robust data 
on which to base estimates of cost-effectiveness or against which model outputs 
can be calibrated. More data are required to explain how utility weights vary 
with age, transfusions and strokes. Research is also needed around the cost of 
paediatric stroke in the UK.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42011001496.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16430
PMCID: PMC4780999
PMID: 23140544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2013 Aug;46(2):207-18. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.07.014. Epub 2012 Nov 8.

An open-label extension study to investigate the long-term safety and 
tolerability of THC/CBD oromucosal spray and oromucosal THC spray in patients 
with terminal cancer-related pain refractory to strong opioid analgesics.

Johnson JR(1), Lossignol D, Burnell-Nugent M, Fallon MT.

Author information:
(1)Shropshire and Mid-Wales Hospice, Shrewsbury, Shropshire, United Kingdom. 
jeremyjohnson@severnhospice.org.uk

CONTEXT: Chronic pain in patients with advanced cancer poses a serious clinical 
challenge. The Δ9-tetrahydrocannabinol (THC)/cannabidiol (CBD) oromucosal spray 
(U.S. Adopted Name, nabiximols; Sativex(®)) is a novel cannabinoid formulation 
currently undergoing investigation as an adjuvant therapy for this treatment 
group.
OBJECTIVES: This follow-up study investigated the long-term safety and 
tolerability of THC/CBD spray and THC spray in relieving pain in patients with 
advanced cancer.
METHODS: In total, 43 patients with cancer-related pain experiencing inadequate 
analgesia despite chronic opioid dosing, who had participated in a previous 
three-arm (THC/CBD spray, THC spray, or placebo), two-week parent randomized 
controlled trial, entered this open-label, multicenter, follow-up study. 
Patients self-titrated THC/CBD spray (n=39) or THC spray (n=4) to symptom relief 
or maximum dose and were regularly reviewed for safety, tolerability, and 
evidence of clinical benefit.
RESULTS: The efficacy end point of change from baseline in mean Brief Pain 
Inventory-Short Form scores for "pain severity" and "worst pain" domains showed 
a decrease (i.e., improvement) at each visit in the THC/CBD spray patients. 
Similarly, the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
Quality of Life Questionnaire-C30 scores showed a decrease (i.e., improvement) 
from baseline in the domains of insomnia, pain, and fatigue. No new safety 
concerns associated with the extended use of THC/CBD spray arose from this 
study.
CONCLUSION: This study showed that the long-term use of THC/CBD spray was 
generally well tolerated, with no evidence of a loss of effect for the relief of 
cancer-related pain with long-term use. Furthermore, patients who kept using the 
study medication did not seek to increase their dose of this or other 
pain-relieving medication over time, suggesting that the adjuvant use of 
cannabinoids in cancer-related pain could provide useful benefit.

Copyright © 2013 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.07.014
PMID: 23141881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Vaccine. 2012 Dec 17;31(1):96-108. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.10.103. Epub
2012  Nov 8.

Cost-effectiveness and economic benefits of vaccines in low- and middle-income 
countries: a systematic review.

Ozawa S(1), Mirelman A, Stack ML, Walker DG, Levine OS.

Author information:
(1)Department of International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public 
Health, Baltimore, MD 21205, United States. sozawa@jhsph.edu

BACKGROUND: Public health interventions that prevent mortality and morbidity 
have greatly increased over the past decade. Immunization is one of these 
preventive interventions, with a potential to bring economic benefits beyond 
just health benefits. While vaccines are considered to be a cost-effective 
public health intervention, implementation has become increasingly challenging. 
As vaccine costs rise and competing priorities increase, economic evidence is 
likely to play an increasingly important role in vaccination decisions.
METHODS: To assist policy decisions today and potential investments in the 
future, we provide a systematic review of the literature on the 
cost-effectiveness and economic benefits of vaccines in low- and middle-income 
countries from 2000 to 2010. The review identified 108 relevant articles from 51 
countries spanning 23 vaccines from three major electronic databases (Pubmed, 
Embase and Econlit).
RESULTS: Among the 44 articles that reported costs per disability-adjusted life 
year (DALY) averted, vaccines cost less than or equal to $100 per DALY averted 
in 23 articles (52%). Vaccines cost less than $500 per DALY averted in 34 
articles (77%), and less than $1000 per DALY averted in 38 articles (86%) in one 
of the scenarios. 24 articles (22%) examined broad level economic benefits of 
vaccines such as greater future wage-earning capacity and cost savings from 
averting disease outbreaks. 60 articles (56%) gathered data from a primary 
source. There were little data on long-term and societal economic benefits such 
as morbidity-related productivity gains, averting catastrophic health 
expenditures, growth in gross domestic product (GDP), and economic implications 
of demographic changes resulting from vaccination.
CONCLUSIONS: This review documents the available evidence and shows that 
vaccination in low- and middle-income countries brings important economic 
benefits. The cost-effectiveness studies reviewed suggest to policy makers that 
vaccines are an efficient investment. This review further highlights key gaps in 
the available literature that would benefit from additional research, especially 
in the area of evaluating the broader economic benefits of vaccination in the 
developing world.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2012.10.103
PMID: 23142307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. J Arthroplasty. 2013 Apr;28(4):585-90. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2012.07.014. Epub
 2012 Nov 8.

Incidence, predictors, and effects of residual flexion contracture on clinical 
outcomes of total knee arthroplasty.

Koh IJ(1), Chang CB, Kang YG, Seong SC, Kim TK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Uijeongbu St. Mary's Hospital, The 
Catholic University of Korea College of Medicine, Uijeongbu, Gyeonggi-do, Korea.

Patients who present with large flexion contracture (FC) but have well 
maintained maximum flexion tend to have a flexion-extension gap mismatch, which 
can cause residual FC or flexion instability after TKA. We routinely use 
posterior-stabilized implants, perform soft tissue balancing and additional 
distal femur resection, and determine the polyethylene insert thickness based on 
flexion-extension gap difference to avoid postoperative FC and flexion 
instability. We retrospectively reviewed 911 TKAs performed with this protocol 
to determine the incidence, predictors and effects of postoperative FC on 
clinical outcomes. Knees with postoperative FC ≥10° were identified, and their 
clinical outcomes were compared with knees without FC. The average follow-up 
period was 35months (range, 24-72months). Eighteen (2.0%) of the 911 knees 
presented with postoperative FC. The occurrence of postoperative FC was 
associated with preoperative FC and anterior knee pain, but not with a 
flexion-extension gap mismatch. A mild to moderate postoperative FC does not 
increase pain, but may be detrimental to quality of life.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2012.07.014
PMID: 23142447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Free Radic Biol Med. 2013 Feb;55:109-18. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2012.11.001. Epub 2012 Nov 9.

Oxidative stress adaptation with acute, chronic, and repeated stress.

Pickering AM(1), Vojtovich L, Tower J, A Davies KJ.

Author information:
(1)Ethel Percy Andrus Gerontology Center, Davis School of Gerontology, 
University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA.

Oxidative stress adaptation, or hormesis, is an important mechanism by which 
cells and organisms respond to, and cope with, environmental and physiological 
shifts in the level of oxidative stress. Most studies of oxidative stress 
adaption have been limited to adaptation induced by acute stress. In contrast, 
many if not most environmental and physiological stresses are either repeated or 
chronic. In this study we find that both cultured mammalian cells and the fruit 
fly Drosophila melanogaster are capable of adapting to chronic or repeated 
stress by upregulating protective systems, such as their proteasomal proteolytic 
capacity to remove oxidized proteins. Repeated stress adaptation resulted in 
significant extension of adaptive responses. Repeated stresses must occur at 
sufficiently long intervals, however (12-h or more for MEF cells and 7 days or 
more for flies), for adaptation to be successful, and the levels of both 
repeated and chronic stress must be lower than is optimal for adaptation to 
acute stress. Regrettably, regimens of adaptation to both repeated and chronic 
stress that were successful for short-term survival in Drosophila nevertheless 
also caused significant reductions in life span for the flies. Thus, although 
both repeated and chronic stress can be tolerated, they may result in a shorter 
life.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2012.11.001
PMCID: PMC3687790
PMID: 23142766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Unfallchirurg. 2012 Nov;115(11):1009-21. doi: 10.1007/s00113-012-2317-6.

[Treatment of periprosthetic and peri-implant fractures : modern plate 
osteosynthesis procedures].

[Article in German]

Raschke MJ(1), Stange R, Kösters C.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Unfall-, Hand- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, 
Universitätsklinikum Münster, Waldeyerstraße 1, 48149, Münster, Deutschland. 
Michael.Raschke@ukmuenster.de

Periprosthetic fractures are increasing not only due to the demographic 
development with high life expectancy, the increase in osteoporosis and 
increased prosthesis implantation but also due to increased activity of the 
elderly population. The therapeutic algorithms are manifold but general valid 
rules for severe fractures are not available. The most commonly occurring 
periprosthetic fractures are proximal and distal femoral fractures but in the 
clinical routine fractures of the tibial head, ankle, shoulder, elbow and on the 
borders to other implants (peri-implant fractures) and complex interprosthetic 
fractures are being seen increasingly more. It is to be expected that in the 
mid-term further options, such as cement augmentation of cannulated polyaxial 
locking screws will extend the portfolio of implants for treatment of 
periprosthetic fractures. The aim of this review article is to present the new 
procedures for osteosynthesis of periprosthetic fractures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00113-012-2317-6
PMID: 23143032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Health Place. 2013 Jan;19:25-32. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2012.09.012.
Epub  2012 Oct 12.

The impact of nursing homes on small-area life expectancies.

Jonker MF(1), van Lenthe FJ, Donkers B, Congdon PD, Burdorf A, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.jonker@erasmusmc.nl

The geographical distribution of nursing homes can significantly distort 
small-area life expectancy estimations. Consequently, uncorrected life 
expectancies should not be used for small-area life expectancy comparisons. 
Instead, several nursing home corrections have been proposed. The practical use 
of these corrections, however, is severely limited by data availability. This 
paper introduces a new, model-based nursing home correction that requires 
considerably less detailed nursing home data. A formal comparison shows that the 
proposed model-based approach is the recommended correction for all small-area 
life expectancy estimations where detailed previous residential address 
information of the nursing home population is not available. This makes the 
approach highly relevant for a wide range of empirical applications.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2012.09.012
PMID: 23143136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2013 Feb;16(2):193-6. doi: 
10.1093/icvts/ivs444. Epub 2012 Nov 9.

What is the best timing of surgery in patients with post-infarct ventricular 
septal rupture?

Papalexopoulou N(1), Young CP, Attia RQ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Guy's and St Thomas' Hospital NHS 
Foundation Trust, London, UK.

Comment in
    Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2013 Feb;16(2):196; discussion 197.
    Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2013 Feb;16(2):196-7; discussion 197.

A best evidence topic in cardiac surgery was written according to a structured 
protocol. The question addressed was 'in which patients with a post-infarct 
ventricular septal rupture (PIVSR) might immediate surgery give better results 
than delayed surgery in terms of mortality'? Altogether, 88 papers were found 
using the reported search criteria, of which 6 represented the best evidence to 
answer the clinical question. The authors, journal, date and country of 
publication, patient group studied, study type, relevant outcomes and results of 
these papers are tabulated. The recommendations are based on outcomes from 3238 
patients undergoing surgery for PIVSR. Mean age was 67.5 ± 8.8 (40-88 years). 
Left ventricular function was compromised in most patients with mean ejection 
fraction of 40%. All papers carried out univariate and/or multivariate analyses 
of variables that contributed to different in-hospital mortalities. Early 
surgery, i.e. from >3 days to within 4 weeks after MI, had an overall 
in-hospital mortality of 52.4%; delayed surgery, typically from 1 week to after 
4 weeks post-myocardial infarction, had an overall operative in-hospital 
mortality of 7.56%. Most authors observe that a shorter time between rupture and 
surgery is an unfavourable predictor of outcome independent of haemodynamic 
status. The consensus was that nearly all patients with PIVSR, particularly if 
>15 mm diameter with a significant shunt and resultant haemodynamic 
deterioration, should undergo early surgical repair. The precise timing of 
surgery depends on patients' haemodynamic status. Exclusion from surgery should 
be considered if life expectancy or quality is severely limited by another 
limiting underlying pathology. If the patient is in cardiogenic shock, due to 
pulmonary to systemic blood flow ratio shunt rather than infarct size, immediate 
surgery should follow resuscitation measures and cardiac support. If the patient 
is haemodynamically stable, surgery could be performed after 3-4 weeks of 
medical optimization with inotropic and mechanical cardiac support. If there is 
clinical deterioration, immediate surgery is indicated.

DOI: 10.1093/icvts/ivs444
PMCID: PMC3548527
PMID: 23143273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Eur Respir J. 2013 Aug;42(2):341-9. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00072212. Epub
2012  Nov 8.

Resting heart rate is a predictor of mortality in COPD.

Jensen MT(1), Marott JL, Lange P, Vestbo J, Schnohr P, Nielsen OW, Jensen JS, 
Jensen GB.

Author information:
(1)Copenhagen University Hospital Gentofte, Hellerup, Denmark. 
magnustjensen@gmail.com

The clinical significance of high heart rate in chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) is unexplored. We investigated the association between resting 
heart rate, pulmonary function, and prognosis in subjects with COPD. 16 696 
subjects aged ≥40 years from the Copenhagen City Heart Study, a prospective 
study of the general population, were followed for 35.3 years, 10 986 deaths 
occurred. Analyses were performed using time-dependent Cox-models and net 
reclassification index (NRI). Resting heart rate increased with severity of COPD 
(p<0.001). Resting heart rate was associated with both cardiovascular and 
all-cause mortality across all stages of COPD (p<0.001). Within each stage of 
COPD, resting heart rate improved prediction of median life expectancy; the 
difference between <65 bpm and >85 bpm was 5.5 years without COPD, 9.8 years in 
mild (Global Initiative for Chronic Obstructive Lung Disease (GOLD) stage I), 
6.7 years in moderate (GOLD stage II) and 5.9 years in severe/very severe COPD 
(GOLD stage III/IV), (p<0.001). Resting heart rate significantly improved risk 
prediction when added to GOLD stage (categorical NRI 4.9%, p = 0.01; category 
less NRI 23.0%, p<0.0001) or forced expiratory volume in 1 s % predicted 
(categorical NRI 7.8%, p = 0.002; category less NRI 24.1%, p<0.0001). Resting 
heart rate increases with severity of COPD. Resting heart rate is a readily 
available clinical variable that improves risk prediction in patients with COPD 
above and beyond that of pulmonary function alone. Resting heart rate may be a 
potential target for intervention in COPD.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00072212
PMID: 23143550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. J Endocrinol Invest. 2012 Dec;35(11):1021-9. doi: 10.3275/8717. Epub 2012
Nov  12.

The cardiovascular system in growth hormone excess and growth hormone 
deficiency.

Lombardi G(1), Di Somma C, Grasso LF, Savanelli MC, Colao A, Pivonello R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular and Clinical Endocrinology and Oncology, Federico II 
University, Naples, Italy. gaelomba@unina.it

The clinical conditions associated with GH excess and GH deficiency (GHD) are 
known to be associated with an increased risk for the cardiovascular morbidity 
and mortality, suggesting that either an excess or a deficiency in GH and/or 
IGF-I is deleterious for cardiovascular system. In patients with acromegaly, 
chronic GH and IGF-I excess commonly causes a specific cardiomyopathy 
characterized by a concentric cardiac hypertrophy associated with diastolic 
dysfunction and, in later stages, with systolic dysfunction ending in heart 
failure if GH/IGF-I excess is not controlled. Abnormalities of cardiac rhythm 
and anomalies of cardiac valves can also occur. Moreover, the increased 
prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors, such as hypertension, diabetes 
mellitus, and insulin resistance, as well as dyslipidemia, confer an increased 
risk for vascular atherosclerosis. Successful control of the disease is 
accompanied by a decrease of the cardiac mass and improvement of cardiac 
function and an improvement in cardiovascular risk factors. In patients with 
hypopituitarism, GHD has been considered the under- lying factor of the 
increased mortality when appropriate standard replacement of the pituitary 
hormones deficiencies is given. Either childhood-onset or adulthood-onset GHD 
are characterized by a cluster of abnormalities associated with an increased 
cardiovascular risk, including altered body composition, unfavorable lipid 
profile, insulin resistance, endothelial dysfunction and vascular 
atherosclerosis, a decrease in cardiac mass together with an impairment of 
systolic function mainly after exercise. Treatment with recombinant GH in 
patients with GHD is followed by an improvement of the cardiovascular risk 
factors and an increase in cardiac mass together with an improvement in cardiac 
performance. In conclusion, acromegaly and GHD are associated with an increased 
risk for cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, but the control of GH/IGF-I 
secretion reverses cardiovascular abnormalities and restores the normal life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.3275/8717
PMID: 23143695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):729-31. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100978.
Epub  2012 Nov 9.

What's wrong with enhancements?

Temkin LS.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):741-2.

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):722-8.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100978
PMID: 23143997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. BMJ Open. 2012 Nov 8;2(6):e001572. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-001572. Print
2012.

Health expectancy in the occupied Palestinian territory: estimates from the Gaza 
Strip and the West Bank: based on surveys from 2006 to 2010.

Qlalweh K(1), Duraidi M, Brønnum-Hansen H.

Author information:
(1)Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics, Ramallah, Palestinian Territory.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the study was to estimate health expectancy for the 
Palestinian population and to evaluate changes that have taken place over the 
past 5 years.
DESIGN: Mortality data and population-based health surveys.
SETTING: The Israeli-occupied Palestinian territory of the Gaza Strip and the 
West Bank.
PARTICIPANTS: 17 034 and 38 071 adults aged 20 or over participating the 
Palestinian Family Health Surveys of 2006 and 2010. Death rates for 2007 and 
2010 covered the entire population.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Life expectancy and expected lifetime with and without chronic 
disease were estimated using the Sullivan method on the basis of mortality data 
and data on the prevalence of chronic disease.
RESULTS: Life expectancy at the age of 20 increased from 52.8 years in 2006 to 
53.3 years in 2010 for men and from 55.1 years to 55.7 years for women. In 2006, 
expected lifetime without a chronic disease was 37.7 (95% CI 37.0 to 38.3) years 
and 32.5 (95% CI 31.9 to 33.2) years for 20-year-old men and women, 
respectively. By 2010, this had decreased by 1.6 years for men and increased by 
1.3 years for women. The health status of men has worsened. In particular, 
lifetime with hypertension and diabetes has increased. For women, the gain in 
life expectancy consisted partly of years with and partly of years without the 
most prevalent diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Health expectancy for men and women diverged, which could to some 
extent be due to gender-specific exposures related to lifestyle factors and the 
impact of military occupation.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-001572
PMCID: PMC3532998
PMID: 23144257


622. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e47497. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047497. Epub 2012
Oct  29.

Inhibition of pre-mRNA splicing by a synthetic Blom7α-interacting small RNA.

Löscher M(1), Schosserer M, Dausse E, Lee K, Ajuh P, Grillari-Voglauer R, Lamond 
AI, Toulmé JJ, Grillari J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, BOKU - University of Natural Resources and Life 
Sciences, Vienna, Austria.

Originally the novel protein Blom7α was identified as novel pre-mRNA splicing 
factor that interacts with SNEV(Prp19/Pso4), an essential protein involved in 
extension of human endothelial cell life span, DNA damage repair, the 
ubiquitin-proteasome system, and pre-mRNA splicing. Blom7α belongs to the 
heteronuclear ribonucleoprotein K homology (KH) protein family, displaying 2 KH 
domains, a well conserved and widespread RNA-binding motif. In order to identify 
specific sequence binding motifs, we here used Systematic Evolution of Ligands 
by Exponential Enrichment (SELEX) with a synthetic RNA library. Besides sequence 
motifs like (U/A)(1-4) C(2-6) (U/A)(1-5), we identified an AC-rich RNA-aptamer 
that we termed AK48 (Aptamer KH-binding 48), binding to Blom7α with high 
affinity. Addition of AK48 to pre-mRNA splicing reactions in vitro inhibited the 
formation of mature spliced mRNA and led to a slight accumulation of the H 
complex of the spliceosome. These results suggest that the RNA binding activity 
of Blom7α might be required for pre-mRNA splicing catalysis. The inhibition of 
in-vitro splicing by the small RNA AK48 indicates the potential use of small RNA 
molecules in targeting the spliceosome complex as a novel target for drug 
development.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047497
PMCID: PMC3483155
PMID: 23144703 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: JG and RGV are co-founders 
and employees of Evercyte GmbH. RGV is also affiliated to ACIB GmbH. This study 
was partly funded by CERIES, part of the Chanel company. There are no patents, 
products in development or marketed products to declare. This does not alter the 
authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials, 
as detailed online in the guide for authors.


623. PLoS One. 2012;7(11):e48820. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0048820. Epub 2012
Nov 7.

What is the optimal threshold at which to recommend breast biopsy?

Burnside ES(1), Chhatwal J, Alagoz O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, School of Medicine and Public Health, University of 
Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin, USA. eburnside@uwhealth.org

BACKGROUND: A 2% threshold, traditionally used as a level above which breast 
biopsy recommended, has been generalized to all patients from several specific 
situations analyzed in the literature. We use a sequential decision analytic 
model considering clinical and mammography features to determine the optimal 
general threshold for image guided breast biopsy and the sensitivity of this 
threshold to variation of these features.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We built a decision analytical model called a 
Markov Decision Process (MDP) model, which determines the optimal threshold of 
breast cancer risk to perform breast biopsy in order to maximize a patient's 
total quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The optimal biopsy threshold is 
determined based on a patient's probability of breast cancer estimated by a 
logistic regression model (LRM) which uses demographic risk factors (age, family 
history, and hormone use) and mammographic findings (described using the 
established lexicon-BI-RADS). We estimate the MDP model's parameters using SEER 
data (prevalence of invasive vs. in situ disease, stage at diagnosis, and 
survival), US life tables (all cause mortality), and the medical literature 
(biopsy disutility and treatment efficacy) to determine the optimal "base case" 
risk threshold for breast biopsy and perform sensitivity analysis. The base case 
MDP model reveals that 2% is the optimal threshold for breast biopsy for 
patients between 42 and 75 however the thresholds below age 42 is lower (1%) and 
above age 75 is higher (range of 3-5%). Our sensitivity analysis reveals that 
the optimal biopsy threshold varies most notably with changes in age and 
disutility of biopsy.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Our MDP model validates the 2% threshold currently 
used for biopsy but shows this optimal threshold varies substantially with 
patient age and biopsy disutility.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0048820
PMCID: PMC3492229
PMID: 23144986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


624. PLoS One. 2012;7(11):e48839. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0048839. Epub 2012
Nov 7.

Long-term survival in HIV positive patients with up to 15 Years of 
antiretroviral therapy.

McManus H(1), O'Connor CC, Boyd M, Broom J, Russell D, Watson K, Roth N, Read 
PJ, Petoumenos K, Law MG; Australian HIV Observational Database.

Collaborators: Ellis D, Agrawal S, McCann L, Cunningham N, Vincent T, Allen D, 
Little JL, Gray C, Vale R, Jackson E, McCallum K, Grotowski M, Taylor S, Cooper 
D, Carr A, Lee F, Hesse K, Norris R, Finlayson R, Prone I, Jackson E, Shakeshaft 
J, Brown K, McGrath C, Wray L, Read P, Lu H, Couldwell D, Smith D, Furner V, 
Watson J, Lawrence C, Mulhall B, Wright S, McManus H, Bendall C, Boyd M, 
Kulatunga A, Knibbs P, Chuah J, Ngieng M, Dickson B, Russell D, Downing S, 
Sowden D, Broom J, Taing K, Johnston C, McGill K, Orth D, Youds D, Kelly M, 
Gibson A, Magon H, Donohue W, Moore R, Edwards S, Liddle R, Locke P, Lau H, 
Silvers J, Zeng W, Watson K, Bryant M, Price S, Woolley I, Giles M, Korman T, 
Williams J, Nolan D, Skett J, Robinson J, Sowden D, Templeton DJ, Hoy J, Wray L, 
Chuah J, Morwood K, Read T, Roth N, Woolley I, Kelly M, Broom J, Vanar S, 
Faridah S, Kamarulzaman A, Vannary B, Ditangco R, Tsukada K, Han SH, Pujari S, 
Makane A, Sasisopin AJ, Drummond F, Boyd M, Bloch M, Franic T, Smith D, Baker D, 
Halligan S, Law M, Templeton DJ, OConnor CC, Dijanosic C, Sinn K, Petoumenos K, 
Roth NJ, Nicolson J, Read T, Hoy J, Li PC, Lee MP, Choi JY, Ng OT, McGrath V, 
Halligan S.

Author information:
(1)The Kirby Institute, UNSW, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 
hmcmanus@kirby.unsw.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy has increased for newly diagnosed HIV patients since 
the inception of combination antiretroviral treatment (cART), but there remains 
a need to better understand the characteristics of long-term survival in 
HIV-positive patients. We examined long-term survival in HIV-positive patients 
receiving cART in the Australian HIV Observational Database (AHOD), to describe 
changes in mortality compared to the general population and to develop 
longer-term survival models.
METHODS: Data were examined from 2,675 HIV-positive participants in AHOD who 
started cART. Standardised mortality ratios (SMR) were calculated by age, sex 
and calendar year across prognostic characteristics using Australian Bureau of 
Statistics national data as reference. SMRs were examined by years of duration 
of cART by CD4 and similarly by viral load. Survival was analysed using 
Cox-proportional hazards and parametric survival models.
RESULTS: The overall SMR for all-cause mortality was 3.5 (95% CI: 3.0-4.0). SMRs 
by CD4 count were 8.6 (95% CI: 7.2-10.2) for CD4<350 cells/µl; 2.1 (95% CI: 
1.5-2.9) for CD4 = 350-499 cells/µl; and 1.5 (95% CI: 1.1-2.0) for CD4≥500 
cells/µl. SMRs for patients with CD4 counts <350 cells/µL were much higher than 
for patients with higher CD4 counts across all durations of cART. SMRs for 
patients with viral loads greater than 400 copies/ml were much higher across all 
durations of cART. Multivariate models demonstrated improved survival associated 
with increased recent CD4, reduced recent viral load, younger patients, absence 
of HBVsAg-positive ever, year of HIV diagnosis and incidence of ADI. Parametric 
models showed a fairly constant mortality risk by year of cART up to 15 years of 
treatment.
CONCLUSION: Observed mortality remained fairly constant by duration of cART and 
was modelled accurately by accepted prognostic factors. These rates did not vary 
much by duration of treatment. Changes in mortality with age were similar to 
those in the Australian general population.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0048839
PMCID: PMC3492258
PMID: 23144991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Matthew Law has received 
research grants, consultancy and/or travel grants from: Boehringer Ingelheim; 
Bristol-Myers Squibb; Gilead; GlaxoSmithKline; Janssen-Cilag; Johnson & Johnson; 
Merck Sharp & Dohme; Pfizer; Roche; and CSL Ltd. Mark Boyd has been a board 
member for Merck and BMS received research grants, consultancy and/or travel 
grants from: Merck Sharp & Dohme; Abbott; Gilead; Janssen-Cilag; and from 
Boehringer Ingelheim. Darren Russell has received research grants, consultancy 
and/or travel grants from: Janssen-Cilag; Merck Sharp & Dohme; Abbott; and 
Gilead. Norman Roth has received research grants, consultancy and/or travel 
grants from Boehringer Ingelheim; ViiV; Merck Sharp & Dohme; and Janssen-Cilag. 
This does not alter the authors‚ adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on 
sharing data and materials.


625. ACS Nano. 2012 Dec 21;6(12):10950-64. doi: 10.1021/nn304505s. Epub 2012 Nov
12.

Single-molecule imaging and functional analysis of Als adhesins and mannans 
during Candida albicans morphogenesis.

Beaussart A(1), Alsteens D, El-Kirat-Chatel S, Lipke PN, Kucharíková S, Van 
Dijck P, Dufrêne YF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Life Sciences & Institute of Condensed Matter and Nanosciences, 
Université catholique de Louvain, Croix du Sud, 1, bte L7.04.01., B-1348 
Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.

Cellular morphogenesis in the fungal pathogen Candida albicans is associated 
with changes in cell wall composition that play important roles in biofilm 
formation and immune responses. Yet, how fungal morphogenesis modulates the 
biophysical properties and interactions of the cell surface molecules is poorly 
understood, mainly owing to the paucity of high-resolution imaging techniques. 
Here, we use single-molecule atomic force microscopy to localize and analyze the 
key components of the surface of living C. albicans cells during morphogenesis. 
We show that the yeast-to-hypha transition leads to a major increase in the 
distribution, adhesion, unfolding, and extension of Als adhesins and their 
associated mannans on the cell surface. We also find that morphogenesis 
dramatically increases cell surface hydrophobicity. These molecular changes are 
critical for microbe-host interactions, including adhesion, colonization, and 
biofilm formation. The single-molecule experiments presented here offer 
promising prospects for understanding how microbial pathogens use cell surface 
molecules to modulate biofilm and immune interactions.

DOI: 10.1021/nn304505s
PMCID: PMC3528847
PMID: 23145462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Eklem Hastalik Cerrahisi. 2012;23(3):122-7.

[Functional outcomes and quality of life in patients with proximal row 
carpectomy].

[Article in Turkish]

Akkaya N(1), Demirkan F, Akkaya S, Gökalp O, Yörükoğlu C, Sahin F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Medical Faculty of 
Pamukkale University, 20070 Kınıklı, Denizli, Turkey. nrakkaya@gmail.com

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to assess pain, functional status, patient 
satisfaction, and quality of life in patients with proximal row carpectomy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between December 2007 and November 2011, demographic, 
clinical, and operational data, and physical therapy program of 16 patients (11 
males, 5 females; mean age 41.4±16.6 years; range 19 to 77 years) with proximal 
row carpectomy were recorded. Pain (0-no pain, 10-severe pain), and patient 
satisfaction (0-not satisfied, 10-very satisfied) were assessed with visual 
analog scale (VAS). Wrist range of motion, and hand grip strength were 
evaluated. The quick-disabilities of the arm, shoulder and hand (Q-DASH), and 
Mayo wrist score were used for functional evaluation of the upper limb. Short 
form-36 (SF-36) was used for the evaluation of quality of life.
RESULTS: Postsurgical duration was 20.6±16.4 (range; 6-56) months. Complex 
regional pain syndrome (CRPS) was detected in two patients (%12.5). The mean 
session numbers of physical therapy were 16.7±9.4 (range; 0-30), satisfaction 
VAS was 8.4±2.1, rest VAS 0.8±0.9, activity VAS was 2.3±2.2, grip strength of 
operated side 82% of nonoperated side, Q-DASH score was 13.4±16.5 (substantially 
good), and Mayo wrist score was 80.0±19.4 (good). Significant improvement was 
detected in postoperative flexion-extension arc compared to preoperative status 
(p=0.001). A correlation was detected between hand grip strength percentage and 
session numbers of physical therapy (p=0.025, r=0.558). Relationships between 
quality of life-pain subscore and activity pain (p=0.001, r= -0.819), Q-DASH 
(p=0.003, r= -0.698), and Mayo wrist score (p=0.037, r=0.525) were detected. The 
presence of complication was the only independent variable for prediction of 
functional status in multivariate linear regression analysis.
CONCLUSION: Increased number of physical therapy session results in improved 
hand grip strength following the proximal row carpectomy, while CRPS 
complication which can be seen after surgery affects the functional status 
adversely.

PMID: 23145753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. BJOG. 2013 Feb;120(3):354-61. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.12040. Epub 2012 Nov
12.

The outcome of pregnancies in women with cystic fibrosis--single centre 
experience 1998-2011.

Thorpe-Beeston JG(1), Madge S, Gyi K, Hodson M, Bilton D.

Author information:
(1)Department Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Chelsea and Westminster NHS Foundation 
Trust, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the maternal and fetal outcomes of pregnancies in women 
with cystic fibrosis.
DESIGN: Retrospective study.
SETTING: Single obstetric hospital and adult cystic fibrosis centre.
METHODS: Retrospective case-note review of pregnant women with cystic fibrosis 
referred for antenatal care and delivery.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Maternal and fetal outcomes, mode of delivery, lung 
function and pregnancy complications.
RESULTS: Forty-eight pregnancies were studied in 41 women. There were two 
miscarriages, 44 singleton pregnancies and two sets of twins. All babies were 
liveborn and survived. The mean gestational age at delivery was 35.9 ± 3.3 
weeks. There were no fetal abnormalities or terminations of pregnancy. The 
median birthweight centile was 31.9 (interquartile range 14.9-55.6). Twenty-five 
(52.1%) of the women had pancreatic insufficiency and 17 (35.4%) required 
insulin. There was a positive correlation between booking predicted forced 
expiratory volume in 1 second (FEV(1) ) and gestational age at delivery (P < 
0.01). Women with FEV(1) ≤60% were more likely to deliver earlier and by 
caesarean section compared with women with FEV(1) >60% (35.0 ± 3.2 weeks versus 
37.1 ± 3.0 weeks; P = 0.02 and 75.0% versus 25.0%; P = 0.01). Three of the seven 
women with an FEV(1) <40% died within 18 months of delivery. Four of the eight 
women with FEV(1) 40-50% died between 2 and 8 years after delivery.
CONCLUSION: Pregnancy for women with cystic fibrosis is possible and results in 
favourable maternal and fetal outcomes, but the incidence of preterm delivery 
and caesarean section is increased. Women with pre-existing poor lung function 
should be counselled antenatally to ensure that they understand the implications 
of their shortened life-expectancy and parenthood.

© 2012 The Authors BJOG An International Journal of Obstetrics and Gynaecology © 
2012 RCOG.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.12040
PMID: 23145929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Expert Rev Hematol. 2012 Oct;5(5):505-11; quiz 512. doi: 10.1586/ehm.12.42.

Hypercoagulability in β-thalassemia: a status quo.

Cappellini MD(1), Poggiali E, Taher AT, Musallam KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, IRCCS Ca' Granda Foundation Maggiore 
Policlinico Hospital, University of Milan, Milan, Italy. 
maria.cappellini@unimi.it

Life expectancy of thalassemia patients has markedly improved over the last few 
decades, but patients still suffer from many complications of their congenital 
chronic disease, and several new complications are now being acknowledged, 
including thrombosis. The high prevalence of thromboembolic events, especially 
in thalassemia intermedia, has led to the identification of a hypercoagulable 
state in these patients. This review summarizes current knowledge of the 
clinical and pathophysiological characteristics of hypercoagulability in 
thalassemia patients. Strategies to prevent thrombotic events are also 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1586/ehm.12.42
PMID: 23146054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Mol Genet Metab. 2012 Dec;107(4):669-73. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2012.10.020.
Epub  2012 Oct 24.

Effects of exercise training during infusion on late-onset Pompe disease 
patients receiving enzyme replacement therapy.

Terzis G(1), Krase A, Papadimas G, Papadopoulos C, Kavouras SA, Manta P.

Author information:
(1)1st Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of Athens, 
Eginition Hospital, Greece. gterzis@phed.uoa.gr

Pompe disease is an autosomal recessive disorder caused by the deficiency of 
acid α-glucosidase resulting in lysosomal accumulation of glycogen and abnormal 
autophagic function. The late-onset form of the disease is characterized by 
progressive skeletal and respiratory muscle dysfunction. Enzyme replacement 
therapy (ERT, Genzyme Corporation, Cambridge, MA, USA) was recently introduced 
and resulted in significant prolongation of the life expectancy of the patients 
with the infantile form while the results were less significant for the 
late-onset form. It has been postulated that the weak influence of ERT in 
late-onset patients might be due to a non-effective delivery of the recombinant 
enzyme to the skeletal muscles perhaps due to the relatively low blood flow to 
the resting skeletal muscles during infusion. Exercise training acutely 
increases the blood flow to the exercising muscles. Thus, it was hypothesized 
that exercise training during enzyme infusion might increase the effectiveness 
of the ERT therapy. Five late-onset Pompe disease patients receiving ERT and 
following regular exercise training for approximately 10 months, followed a 
6-month period of exercise training during infusion of the recombinant enzyme. 
Before and after this period, body composition, isometric strength and 6 minute 
walking distance were determined. Analysis of the results revealed that none of 
these parameters changed significantly after the 6-month intervention period 
(e.g. 6 minute walking distance before: 532±31 m, vs. after: 527±29 m, P=0.246). 
These results suggest that exercise training during infusion may not add 
significant functional changes in late-onset Pompe patients receiving ERT and 
undergoing regular exercise training.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2012.10.020
PMID: 23146291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Transplant Proc. 2012 Nov;44(9):2601-2. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2012.09.037.

Ambulatory blood pressure monitoring in kidney transplant patients: RETENAL 
study.

Fernandez Fresnedo G(1), Franco Esteve A, Gómez Huertas E, Cabello Chaves V, Díz 
Gómez JM, Osorio Moratalla JM, Gallego Samper R, Gallego Valcárcel E, Campistol 
Plana JM, Marín Iranzo R, Arias Rodríguez M; RETENAL Group.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Universitario Marqués de Valdecilla, Santander, Spain. 
nefffg@humv.es

Hypertension is common following renal transplantation, affecting up to 80% of 
transplant recipients. It is generally accepted that hypertension is associated 
with poor graft survival and reduced life expectancy, contributing to increased 
cardiovascular risk factors and mortality rates. The aim of the study was to 
compare the blood pressure (BP) control in kidney transplant patients through 
the use of ambulatory BP monitoring (ABMP) versus office BP measurements (oBP). 
A multicenter, cross-sectional, observational study was conducted in 30 
nephrology/kidney transplant units. Eligible patients included hypertensive 
cadaveric kidney transplant recipients aged <70 years, with a functioning kidney 
for at least 1 year and with an estimated glomerular filtration ≥30 mL/min/1.73 
m(2) and a serum creatinine < 2.5 mg/dL. Recorded data included demographic 
characteristics, oBP, and ABPM and labroatory investigations. The 868 patients 
showed a mean recipient age of was 53.2 ± 11.6 years and mean follow-up after 
transplantation, 5.5 ± 2.8 years. Mean systolic and diastolic oBP were 140.2 ± 
18 and 80.4 ± 10 mm Hg, respectively. Seventy-six percent of patients had oBP 
higher than or equal to 130/80 mm Hg. Mean 24 hour ABPM were 131.5 ± 14 and 77.4 
± 8.7 mm Hg for systolic and diastolic BP, respectively. Using the ABPM, we 
observed that 36.5% of subjects were controlled (mean 24-hour BP < 130/85 mm 
Hg). The two methods (oBP and ABPM) showed significant agreement. After ABPM, 
65% of patients diagnosed as true controlled hypertension were considered to 
have white-coat RH. In clinical practice ABPM may help for better adjustment of 
drugs for adequate BP control.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2012.09.037
PMID: 23146468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Bras Pneumol. 2012 Sep-Oct;38(5):566-72. doi:
10.1590/s1806-37132012000500005.

Electric ventilation: indications for and technical aspects of diaphragm pacing 
stimulation surgical implantation.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Tedde ML(1), Onders RP, Teixeira MJ, Lage SG, Ballester G, Brotto MW, Okumura 
EM, Jatene FB.

Author information:
(1)InCor, Heart Institute – University of São Paulo School of Medicine Hospital 
das Clínicas, São Paulo, Brazil. tedde@usp.br

OBJECTIVE: Patients with high cervical spinal cord injury are usually dependent 
on mechanical ventilation support, which, albeit life saving, is associated with 
complications and decreased life expectancy because of respiratory infections. 
Diaphragm pacing stimulation (DPS), sometimes referred to as electric 
ventilation, induces inhalation by stimulating the inspiratory muscles. Our 
objective was to highlight the indications for and some aspects of the surgical 
technique employed in the laparoscopic insertion of the DPS electrodes, as well 
as to describe five cases of tetraplegic patients submitted to the technique.
METHODS: Patient selection involved transcutaneous phrenic nerve studies in 
order to determine whether the phrenic nerves were preserved. The surgical 
approach was traditional laparoscopy, with four ports. The initial step was 
electrical mapping in order to locate the "motor points" (the points at which 
stimulation would cause maximal contraction of the diaphragm). If the diaphragm 
mapping was successful, four electrodes were implanted into the abdominal 
surface of the diaphragm, two on each side, to stimulate the branches of the 
phrenic nerve.
RESULTS: Of the five patients, three could breathe using DPS alone for more than 
24 h, one could do so for more than 6 h, and one could not do so at all.
CONCLUSIONS: Although a longer follow-up period is needed in order to reach 
definitive conclusions, the initial results have been promising. At this 
writing, most of our patients have been able to remain ventilator-free for long 
periods of time.

DOI: 10.1590/s1806-37132012000500005
PMID: 23147048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Scand J Public Health. 2012 Nov;40(8 Suppl):6-8. doi:
10.1177/1403494812457733.

Health Inequality--determinants and policies. Summary.

Diderichsen F(1), Andersen I, Manuel C; Working Group of Danish Review on Social 
Determinants of Health; Andersen AM, Bach E, Baadsgaard M, Brønnum-Hansen H, 
Hansen FK, Jeune B, Jørgensen T, Søgaard J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
fidi@sund.ku.dk

DOI: 10.1177/1403494812457733
PMID: 23147860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Scand J Public Health. 2012 Nov;40(8 Suppl):12-105. doi: 
10.1177/1403494812457734.

Health inequality--determinants and policies.

Diderichsen F(1), Andersen I, Manuel C; Working Group of Danish Review on Social 
Determinants of Health; Andersen AM, Bach E, Baadsgaard M, Brønnum-Hansen H, 
Hansen FK, Jeune B, Jørgensen T, Søgaard J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. 
fidi@sund.ku.dk

DOI: 10.1177/1403494812457734
PMID: 23147863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Ther Adv Respir Dis. 2013 Apr;7(2):101-9. doi: 10.1177/1753465812464411.
Epub  2012 Nov 12.

Transplanting the adolescent cystic fibrosis patient: can we do it?

Oshrine K(1), McGrath D, Goldfarb S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 
Philadelphia, PA 19104, USA.

Bilateral lung transplantation remains a treatment for end-stage cystic fibrosis 
(CF) lung disease when there is no further medical or surgical treatment 
available. The aim of lung transplantation is to improve patient life 
expectancy. The consensus view that lung transplantation extends life in 
children has been challenged. However, challengers have faced alternative 
explanations of their finding and it is largely accepted that lung 
transplantation in the adolescent patient population is an important treatment 
modality. The goal of this article is to address these concerns and assist with 
developing creative approaches to this known challenging subset of patients. The 
main focus of this article will be to discuss the looming question: what 
existing evidence or best practice insights could improve bilateral lung 
transplantation outcomes for adolescent patients with end-stage CF?

DOI: 10.1177/1753465812464411
