It is the optimal cervical cancer screening strategy to be generalized in our 
country. careHPV testing at 3 years interval can be considered in more developed 
areas to achieve better effectiveness.

DOI: 10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2012.08.017
PMID: 23159002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Bioinformatics. 2013 Jan 15;29(2):281-3. doi: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bts674.
 Epub 2012 Nov 17.

mzMatch-ISO: an R tool for the annotation and relative quantification of 
isotope-labelled mass spectrometry data.

Chokkathukalam A(1), Jankevics A, Creek DJ, Achcar F, Barrett MP, Breitling R.

Author information:
(1)College of Medical Veterinary and Life Sciences, Institute of Molecular Cell 
and Systems Biology, University of Glasgow, Glasgow G12 8QQ, UK.

MOTIVATION: Stable isotope-labelling experiments have recently gained increasing 
popularity in metabolomics studies, providing unique insights into the dynamics 
of metabolic fluxes, beyond the steady-state information gathered by routine 
mass spectrometry. However, most liquid chromatography-mass spectrometry data 
analysis software lacks features that enable automated annotation and relative 
quantification of labelled metabolite peaks. Here, we describe mzMatch-ISO, a 
new extension to the metabolomics analysis pipeline mzMatch.R.
RESULTS: Targeted and untargeted isotope profiling using mzMatch-ISO provides a 
convenient visual summary of the quality and quantity of labelling for every 
metabolite through four types of diagnostic plots that show (i) the 
chromatograms of the isotope peaks of each compound in each sample group; (ii) 
the ratio of mono-isotopic and labelled peaks indicating the fraction of 
labelling; (iii) the average peak area of mono-isotopic and labelled peaks in 
each sample group; and (iv) the trend in the relative amount of labelling in a 
predetermined isotopomer. To aid further statistical analyses, the values used 
for generating these plots are also provided as a tab-delimited file. We 
demonstrate the power and versatility of mzMatch-ISO by analysing a 
(13)C-labelled metabolome dataset from trypanosomal parasites.
AVAILABILITY: mzMatch.R and mzMatch-ISO are available free of charge from 
http://mzmatch.sourceforge.net and can be used on Linux and Windows platforms 
running the latest version of R.
CONTACT: rainer.breitling@manchester.ac.uk.
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics 
online.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/bts674
PMCID: PMC3546800
PMID: 23162054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. J Immunol. 2012 Dec 15;189(12):5773-85. doi: 10.4049/jimmunol.1103720. Epub
2012  Nov 16.

In vitro generation of long-lived human plasma cells.

Cocco M(1), Stephenson S, Care MA, Newton D, Barnes NA, Davison A, Rawstron A, 
Westhead DR, Doody GM, Tooze RM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Experimental Haematology, Leeds Institute of Molecular Medicine, 
University of Leeds, Leeds LS9 7TF, United Kingdom.

Plasma cells (PCs), the terminal effectors of humoral immunity, are short-lived 
unless supported by niche environments in which they may persist for years. No 
model system has linked B cell activation with niche function to allow the in 
vitro generation of long-lived PCs. Thus, the full trajectory of B cell terminal 
differentiation has yet to be investigated in vitro. In this article, we 
describe a robust model for the generation of polyclonal long-lived human PCs 
from peripheral blood B cells. After a proliferative plasmablast phase, PCs 
persist in the absence of cell division, with viability limited only by elective 
culture termination. Conservative predictions for PC life expectancy are 300 d, 
but with the potential for significantly longer life spans for some cells. These 
long-lived PCs are preferentially derived from memory B cells, and acquire a 
CD138(high) phenotype analogous to that of human bone marrow PCs. Analysis of 
gene expression across the system defines clusters of genes with related 
dynamics and linked functional characteristics. Importantly, genes in these 
differentiation clusters demonstrate a similar overall pattern of expression for 
in vitro and ex vivo PCs. In vitro PCs are fully reprogrammed to a secretory 
state and are adapted to their secretory load, maintaining IgG secretion of 120 
pg/cell/day in the absence of XBP1 mRNA splicing. By establishing a set of 
conditions sufficient to allow the development and persistence of mature human 
PCs in vitro, to our knowledge, we provide the first platform with which to 
sequentially explore and manipulate each stage of human PC differentiation.

DOI: 10.4049/jimmunol.1103720
PMID: 23162129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Front Psychol. 2012 Nov 7;3:441. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2012.00441. eCollection 
2012.

The rights and freedoms gradient of health: evidence from a cross-national 
study.

Bezo B(1), Maggi S, Roberts WL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Carleton University Ottawa, ON, Canada.

This study examined the combined influences of national levels of socioeconomic 
status (SES), social capital, and rights and freedoms on population level 
physical and mental health outcomes. Indicators of mental health were suicide 
rates, alcohol consumption, and tobacco use. Indicators of physical health 
included life expectancy, infant mortality rates, and prevalence of HIV. Using 
pathway analysis on international data from a selected sample of European, North 
American, South American, and South Caucasus countries, similar models for 
mental health and physical health were developed. In the first model, the 
positive effects of SES and social capital on physical health were completely 
mediated via rights and freedoms. In the second model, the positive effect of 
SES on mental health was completely mediated, while the impact of social capital 
was partially mediated through rights and freedoms. We named the models, the 
"rights and freedoms gradient of health" in recognition of this latter 
construct's crucial role in determining both physical and mental health.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2012.00441
PMCID: PMC3491584
PMID: 23162498


662. Zh Mikrobiol Epidemiol Immunobiol. 2012 Sep-Oct;(5):42-8.

[Evaluation of the effect of mass vaccination against hepatitis B in the Russian 
Federation].

[Article in Russian]

Klushkina VV, Kozhanova TV, Bazhazhina PG, Popova OE, Il'chenko LIu, Kiuregian 
KK, MikhaÄ­lov MI.

AIM: Evaluate the effect of mass vaccination against hepatitis B implemented 
within the framework of national project Health on the rate of development of 
unfavorable outcomes of infection and on average lifetime of the population of 
Russia.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Hepatitis B markers (HBsAg, anti-HBc, HBeAg, anti-HBe) 
were determined by enzyme immunoassayin 6211 blood serum samples from 
conditionally healthy population of 6 regions of the Russian Federation. 
Analysis of damage to health of the population caused by hepatitis B and 
favorable effect of mass vaccination against hepatitis B was performed by using 
mathematical model by Goldstein S.T. et al. (2005), that used results of 
detection of hepatitis B markers in discrete groups (women of childbearing age, 
children up to 5 years of age, adults aged 30 years and older). A formula 
developed by us was used to evaluate the effect of vaccination on the average 
lifespan of the population of the Russian Federation.
RESULTS: The rate of HBsAg detection in the conditionally healthy population of 
the Tuva Republic was significantly higher (8.1%) than in other studied regions 
of the Russian Federation (p < 0.05): in Moscow Region--1.6%, in Rostov 
Region--1.6%, in Sverdlovsk Region--1.2%, Khabarosvk Region--2.0%, in Sakha 
(Yakutia) Republic--2.5%. The rate of detection of anti-HBc was significantly 
higher in the Tuva Republic and Sakha (Yakutia) Republic (46.2% and 42.3%, 
respectively); in other regions: Moscow Region--13.6%, Rostov Region--18.9%, 
Sverdlovsk Region--17.5%, Khabarovsk Region--21.0%. HBeAg in women of 
childbearing age was detected only in the Tuva Republic (0.4%). The mathematical 
analysis performed demonstrated that the level of coverage of vaccination of 
newborn children that in the studied regions is 96.1-99.6% may lead to the 
reduction of morbidity and mortality from hepatitis B and its outcomes by 91-95% 
that exceeds the similar parameter obtained by using our model, described in the 
literature for Africa, Asia and Europe. The calculated level of decrease of 
morbidity and mortality from hepatitis B and its outcomes may lead to the 
increase of average lifespan of the population of the Russian Federation by 1.44 
- 4.08 months.
CONCLUSION: The strategy of vaccination of newborn children against hepatitis B 
employed in the Russian Federation significantly reduces the risk of this 
disease and development of unfavorable outcomes of the disease especially in 
hyper endemic regions and promotes the increase of average lifespan of the 
population of Russia.

PMID: 23163035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Popul Stud (Camb). 2013;67(1):7-23. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2012.737473. Epub
2012  Nov 20.

Multidimensional life-table analysis of the effect of child mortality on total 
fertility in India, 1992-93, 1998-99, 2005-06.

Eini-Zinab H(1).

Author information:
(1)East-West Center, Honolulu, HI, USA. eini@hawaii.edu

This paper presents a new method for estimating the effect of child mortality on 
the total fertility rate (TFR). The method is based on discrete-time survival 
models of parity progression that allow construction of a multivariate 
multidimensional life table of fertility with four dimensions: woman's age, 
parity, duration in parity, and number of previous child deaths. Additional 
socio-economic variables are included in the set of predictor variables in the 
underlying survival models of parity progression. The life table yields a 
replacement rate, which measures the effect of one additional child death on the 
TFR. The method is illustrated by applying it to three Indian National Family 
Health Surveys. Major findings are that dead children are incompletely replaced, 
and that the replacement rate rises as the TFR falls, reflecting women's 
increasing ability to control their fertility.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2012.737473
PMCID: PMC3570666
PMID: 23164133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. BMC Cancer. 2012 Nov 19;12:530. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-12-530.

Fractionated radiosurgery for painful spinal metastases: DOSIS - a phase II 
trial.

Guckenberger M(1), Hawkins M, Flentje M, Sweeney RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of WÃ¼rzburg, 
Josef-Schneider-Str, 11, WÃ¼rzburg 97080, Germany. 
Guckenberger_M@klinik.uni-wuerzburg.de

BACKGROUND: One third of all cancer patients will develop bone metastases and 
the vertebral column is involved in approximately 70% of these patients. 
Conventional radiotherapy with of 1-10 fractions and total doses of 8-30âGy is 
the current standard for painful vertebral metastases; however, the median pain 
response is short with 3-6 months and local tumor control is limited with these 
rather low irradiation doses. Recent advances in radiotherapy technology - 
intensity modulated radiotherapy for generation of highly conformal dose 
distributions and image-guidance for precise treatment delivery - have made 
dose-escalated radiosurgery of spinal metastases possible and early results of 
pain and local tumor control are promising. The current study will investigate 
efficacy and safety of radiosurgery for painful vertebral metastases and three 
characteristics will distinguish this study. 1) A prognostic score for overall 
survival will be used for selection of patients with longer life expectancy to 
allow for analysis of long-term efficacy and safety. 2) Fractionated 
radiosurgery will be performed with the number of treatment fractions adjusted 
to either good (10 fractions) or intermediate (5 fractions) life expectancy. 
Fractionation will allow inclusion of tumors immediately abutting the spinal 
cord due to higher biological effective doses at the tumor - spinal cord 
interface compared to single fraction treatment. 3) Dose intensification will be 
performed in the involved parts of the vertebrae only, while uninvolved parts 
are treated with conventional doses using the simultaneous integrated boost 
concept.
METHODS / DESIGN: It is the study hypothesis that hypo-fractionated image-guided 
radiosurgery significantly improves pain relief compared to historic data of 
conventionally fractionated radiotherapy. Primary endpoint is pain response 3 
months after radiosurgery, which is defined as pain reduction of â¥â2 points at 
the treated vertebral site on the 0 to 10 Visual Analogue Scale. 60 patients 
will be included into this two-centre phase II trial.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of this study will refine the methods of patient selection, 
target volume definition, treatment planning and delivery as well as quality 
assurance for radiosurgery. It is the intention of this study to form the basis 
for a future randomized controlled trial comparing conventional radiotherapy 
with fractionated radiosurgery for palliation of painful vertebral metastases.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01594892.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-12-530
PMCID: PMC3522547
PMID: 23164174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Gend Med. 2012 Dec;9(6):390-401. doi: 10.1016/j.genm.2012.10.001. Epub 2012
Nov  17.

Sex and life expectancy.

Seifarth JE(1), McGowan CL, Milne KJ.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Human Kinetics, Department of Kinesiology, University of Windsor, 
Windsor, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: A sexual dimorphism in human life expectancy has existed in almost 
every country for as long as records have been kept. Although human life 
expectancy has increased each year, females still live longer, on average, than 
males. Undoubtedly, the reasons for the sex gap in life expectancy are 
multifaceted, and it has been discussed from both sociological and biological 
perspectives. However, even if biological factors make up only a small 
percentage of the determinants of the sex difference in this phenomenon, parity 
in average life expectancy should not be anticipated.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this review is to highlight biological mechanisms that may 
underlie the sexual dimorphism in life expectancy.
METHODS: Using PubMed, ISI Web of Knowledge, and Google Scholar, as well as 
cited and citing reference histories of articles through August 2012, 
English-language articles were identified, read, and synthesized into categories 
that could account for biological sex differences in human life expectancy.
RESULTS: The examination of biological mechanisms accounting for the 
female-based advantage in human life expectancy has been an active area of 
inquiry; however, it is still difficult to prove the relative importance of any 
1 factor. Nonetheless, biological differences between the sexes do exist and 
include differences in genetic and physiological factors such as progressive 
skewing of X chromosome inactivation, telomere attrition, mitochondrial 
inheritance, hormonal and cellular responses to stress, immune function, and 
metabolic substrate handling among others. These factors may account for at 
least a part of the female advantage in human life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite noted gaps in sex equality, higher body fat percentages and 
lower physical activity levels globally at all ages, a sex-based gap in life 
expectancy exists in nearly every country for which data exist. There are 
several biological mechanisms that may contribute to explaining why females live 
longer than men on average, but the complexity of the human life experience 
makes research examining the contribution of any single factor for the female 
advantage difficult. However, this information may still prove important to the 
development of strategies for healthy aging in both sexes.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.genm.2012.10.001
PMID: 23164528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Assist Inferm Ric. 2012 Jul-Sep;31(3):158-62. doi: 10.1702/1176.13044.

[Report SVIMEZ: population, education and the labor market and migration].

[Article in Italian]

Cura Della Redazione A.

SVIMEZ REPORT: Population, school, job market, migrations. The Svimez, a private 
non profit institution, is an association for the development of business and 
industries in the south of Italy, whose aim is the study of the economy of the 
South of Italy to propose development programs. The report on the Economy in the 
South of Italy is the main annual yearly report since 1974. The main indicators 
and the development of southern economy in several key sectors are presented and 
discussed, each year focusing on different specific problems. AIR has already 
proposed contributions on the gap between north and south to reflect on 
inequalities. The relationship between economy, wellbeing and health has been 
demonstrated. The section on school, job market and migrations is presented.

DOI: 10.1702/1176.13044
PMID: 23164970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Am J Intellect Dev Disabil. 2012 Nov;117(6):478-96. doi: 
10.1352/1944-7558-117.6.478.

Into the unknown: aging with autism spectrum disorders.

Perkins EA(1), Berkman KA.

Author information:
(1)University of South Florida, Tampa, FL, USA.

Research investigation of older adults with autism spectrum disorders (ASD) 
noticeably lags behind studies of children and younger adults with ASD. This 
article reviews the current literature regarding a range of quality of life 
outcomes of aging adults with ASD. Studies that have addressed life expectancy, 
comorbid physical and mental health issues, ASD symptomatology, and social, 
residential, and vocational outcomes are reviewed. Research challenges in 
identifying older cohorts of adults with ASD are also discussed, and notable 
areas of concern are highlighted. Overall, aging with ASD does present 
challenges, but there is also evidence that positive outcomes are attainable. 
The article concludes with brief recommendations on how to optimize the aging 
process for individuals with ASD.

DOI: 10.1352/1944-7558-117.6.478
PMID: 23167487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Am J Intellect Dev Disabil. 2012 Nov;117(6):509-32. doi: 
10.1352/1944-7558-117.6.509.

Unique and universal barriers: hospice care for aging adults with intellectual 
disability.

Friedman SL(1), Helm DT, Woodman AC.

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado, CO, USA. sandra.friedman@childrenscolorado.org

As life expectancy of people with intellectual disability (ID) has increased, 
there has been a concurrent increase in age-related illnesses and conditions 
similar to that of the general population. These circumstances result in people 
with ID dying from typical life-ending conditions, and thus, they require 
similar end-of-life services such as palliative and hospice care. Although there 
are notable barriers to hospice for all, people with ID face additional 
challenges in accessing the benefits of these services. This article presents a 
review of the literature on these issues, underscoring the multiple challenges 
and the importance of a more collaborative approach between hospice and 
palliative care workers with people with ID, their families, and other important 
stakeholders.

DOI: 10.1352/1944-7558-117.6.509
PMID: 23167489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. J Palliat Med. 2013 Jan;16(1):9-19. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2012.0376. Epub 2012
Nov  20.

ACR Appropriateness Criteria Â® spinal bone metastases.

Expert Panel on Radiation Oncology-Bone Metastases(1); Lo SS, Lutz ST, Chang EL, 
Galanopoulos N, Howell DD, Kim EY, Konski AA, Pandit-Taskar ND, Rose PS, Ryu S, 
Silverman LN, Sloan AE, Van Poznak C.

Author information:
(1)University Hospitals Seidman Cancer Center, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, Ohio, USA. Simon.Lo@UHhospitals.org

Abstract The spine is a common site of involvement in patients with bone 
metastases. Apart from pain, hypercalcemia, and pathologic fracture, progressive 
tumor can result in neurologic deterioration caused by spinal cord compression 
or cauda equina involvement. The treatment of spinal bone metastases depends on 
histology, site of disease, extent of epidural disease, extent of metastases 
elsewhere, and neurologic status. Treatment recommendations must weigh the 
risk-benefit profile of external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) for the 
particular individual's circumstance, including neurologic status, performance 
status, extent of spinal disease, stability of the spine, extra-spinal disease 
status, and life expectancy. Patients with spinal instability should be 
evaluated for surgical intervention. Research studies are needed that evaluate 
the combination or sequencing of localized therapies with systemic therapies 
including chemotherapy, hormonal therapy (HT), osteoclast inhibitors (OI), and 
radiopharmaceuticals. The roles of stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) in 
the management of spinal oligometastasis, radioresistant spinal metastasis, and 
previously irradiated but progressive spinal metastasis are emerging, but more 
research is needed to validate the findings from retrospective studies. The 
American College of Radiology Appropriateness Criteria are evidence-based 
guidelines for specific clinical conditions that are reviewed every 2 years by a 
multidisciplinary expert panel. The guideline development and review include an 
extensive analysis of current medical literature from peer-reviewed journals and 
the application of a well-established consensus methodology (modified Delphi) to 
rate the appropriateness of imaging and treatment procedures by the panel. In 
those instances where evidence is lacking or not definitive, expert opinion may 
be used to recommend imaging or treatment.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2012.0376
PMID: 23167547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Mol Ecol. 2013 Jan;22(1):249-59. doi: 10.1111/mec.12110. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

Telomere length and dynamics predict mortality in a wild longitudinal study.

Barrett EL(1), Burke TA, Hammers M, Komdeur J, Richardson DS.

Author information:
(1)School of Biological Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich Research 
Park, Norwich, Norfolk NR4 7TJ, UK.

Explaining variation in life expectancy between individuals of the same age is 
fundamental to our understanding of population ecology and life history 
evolution. Variation in the length and rate of loss of the protective telomere 
chromosome caps has been linked to cellular lifespan. Yet, the extent to which 
telomere length and dynamics predict organismal lifespan in nature is still 
contentious. Using longitudinal samples taken from a closed population of 
Acrocephalus sechellensis (Seychelles warblers) studied for over 20 years, we 
describe the first study into life-long adult telomere dynamics (1-17 years) and 
their relationship to mortality under natural conditions (n = 204 individuals). 
We show that telomeres shorten with increasing age and body mass, and that 
shorter telomeres and greater rates of telomere shortening predicted future 
mortality. Our results provide the first clear and unambiguous evidence of a 
relationship between telomere length and mortality in the wild, and substantiate 
the prediction that telomere length and shortening rate can act as an indicator 
of biological age further to chronological age when exploring life history 
questions in natural conditions.

Â© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mec.12110
PMID: 23167566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. J Environ Manage. 2013 Jan 15;114:216-24. doi:
10.1016/j.jenvman.2012.10.002.  Epub 2012 Nov 17.

Scenario analysis of the benefit of municipal organic-waste composting over 
landfill, Cambodia.

Seng B(1), Hirayama K, Katayama-Hirayama K, Ochiai S, Kaneko H.

Author information:
(1)International Research Center for River Basin Environment, University of 
Yamanashi, 4-3-11 Takeda, Kofu 400-8510, Japan. seng@yamanashi.ac.jp

This paper presents insight into the benefits of organic waste recycling through 
composting over landfill, in terms of landfill life extension, compost product, 
and mitigation of greenhouse gases (GHGs). Future waste generation from 2003 to 
2020 was forecast, and five scenarios of organic waste recycling in the 
municipality of Phnom Penh (MPP), Cambodia, were carried out. Organic 
waste-specifically food and garden waste-was used for composting, and the 
remaining waste was landfilled. The recycling scenarios were set based on 
organic waste generated from difference sources: households, restaurants, shops, 
markets, schools, hotels, offices, and street sweeping. Through the five 
scenarios, the minimum volume reductions of waste disposal were about 56, 123, 
and 219 m(3) d(-1) in 2003, 2012, and 2020, respectively, whereas the maximum 
volume reductions in these years were about 325, 643, and 1025 m(3) d(-1). These 
volume reductions reflect a landfill life extension of a minimum of half a year 
and a maximum of about four years. Compost product could be produced at a 
minimum of 14, 30, and 54 tons d(-1) in 2003, 2012, and 2020, respectively, and 
at a maximum in those years of about 80, 158, and 252 tons d(-1). At the same 
time benefit is gained in compost product, GHG emissions could be reduced by a 
minimum of 12.8% and a maximum of 65.0% from 2003 to 2020. This means about 3.23 
(minimum) and 5.79 million tons CO(2)eq (maximum) contributed to GHG mitigation. 
In this regard, it is strongly recommended that MPP should try to initiate an 
organic-waste recycling strategy in a best fit scenario.

Copyright Â© 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2012.10.002
PMID: 23168253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Heart Fail Clin. 2013 Jan;9(1):93-106. doi: 10.1016/j.hfc.2012.09.005.

The economics of heart failure.

Kazi DS(1), Mark DB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA 94110, USA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hfc.2012.09.005
PMID: 23168320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. J Bronchology Interv Pulmonol. 2009 Jan;16(1):15-7. doi: 
10.1097/LBR.0b013e318195dd07.

Novel use of a disposable curved stent insertion plastic device for silicone 
stent placement in patients with limited neck extension.

Hsu LH(1), Liu CC, Nobuyama S, Miyazawa T.

Author information:
(1)*Division of Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine â Division of Thoracic 
Surgery, Koo Foundation Sun Yat-Sen Cancer Center, Taipei, Taiwan â¡Department of 
Respiratory and Infectious Diseases, St Marianna University School of Medicine, 
Kawasaki, Kanagawa, Japan.

As granulation tissue formation frequently complicates the insertion of metallic 
tracheobronchial stents in patients with longer life expectancy, the inert 
silicone tracheobronchial stent remains the treatment of choice for inoperable 
benign tracheal stenosis. Similarly, the Y silicone stent insertion also plays 
an important role for refractory malignant stenoses involving the carina and 
tracheobronchial junction. The classic insertion method of a straight or Y 
silicone stent requires rigid bronchoscopy under general anesthesia with a 
hyperextended neck. This is not an option for patients with limited neck 
extension. We report a novel method of silicone stent insertion using a 
disposable curved stent insertion plastic device to solve the problem in 2 
patients. The new device may have a role in managing patients with central 
airway obstruction but limited neck extension. As a valuable alternative to 
conventional rigid bronchoscope, it also adds to the ease of the silicone stent 
placement.

DOI: 10.1097/LBR.0b013e318195dd07
PMID: 23168461


674. Medicina (Kaunas). 2012;48(9):472-7.

Particulate air pollution and its impact on health in Vilnius and Kaunas.

Orru H(1), LaukaitienÄ A, ZurlytÄ I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Tartu, Ravila 19, 50411 Tartu, 
Estonia. Hans.Orru@ut.ee

Particulate matter in outdoor air has a significant impact on health. Small 
particles, composed of a variety of organic and inorganic compounds, are inhaled 
deep into the respiratory tract. The mechanisms and outcomes are manifold, 
resulting mainly in cardiopulmonary diseases. The current study aimed to 
quantify the health effects of particulate pollutants in Vilnius and Kaunas.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: For risk estimation, the methodology of health impact 
assessment was employed. The exposure was defined as annual PM(2.5) levels for 
long-term exposure effects and daily PM(10) averages for short-term exposure 
effects. The baseline mortality/morbidity data were retrieved from health 
registers and exposure-response relationships from previous epidemiological 
studies. For health impact calculations, the WHO-developed tool AirQ was also 
applied.
RESULTS: The annual average concentration of PM(2.5) was 11 Âµg/m(3) in Vilnius 
and 17.5 Âµg/m(3) in Kaunas. The exposure above the natural background 
corresponded annually to 263 (95% CI, 68-464) and 338 (95% CI, 86-605) premature 
deaths in Vilnius and Kaunas. This resulted in 3438 (95% CI, 905-5952) and 3693 
(95% CI, 983-6322) years of life lost and in an average decrease in life 
expectancy of 0.43 (95% CI, 0.11-0.74) and 0.69 (95% CI, 0.18-1.19) years, 
respectively. In addition, 143 (95% CI, 86-200) and 129 (95% CI, 78-179) 
respiratory and 297 (95% CI, 188-377) and 267 (95% CI, 169-338) cardiovascular 
hospitalizations per year could be expected in Vilnius and Kaunas, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: There is substantial exposure to particulate matter in the main 
Lithuanian cities, which causes considerable adverse health effects. Traffic and 
domestic heating are considered locally the most important contributing factors 
to the degradation of air quality.

PMID: 23168922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. J Vis Exp. 2012 Nov 7;(69):4216. doi: 10.3791/4216.

A new screening method for the directed evolution of thermostable bacteriolytic 
enzymes.

Heselpoth RD(1), Nelson DC.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Bioscience and Biotechnology Research, University of Maryland, 
MD, USA.

Directed evolution is defined as a method to harness natural selection in order 
to engineer proteins to acquire particular properties that are not associated 
with the protein in nature. Literature has provided numerous examples regarding 
the implementation of directed evolution to successfully alter molecular 
specificity and catalysis(1). The primary advantage of utilizing directed 
evolution instead of more rational-based approaches for molecular engineering 
relates to the volume and diversity of variants that can be screened(2). One 
possible application of directed evolution involves improving structural 
stability of bacteriolytic enzymes, such as endolysins. Bacteriophage encode and 
express endolysins to hydrolyze a critical covalent bond in the peptidoglycan 
(i.e. cell wall) of bacteria, resulting in host cell lysis and liberation of 
progeny virions. Notably, these enzymes possess the ability to extrinsically 
induce lysis to susceptible bacteria in the absence of phage and furthermore 
have been validated both in vitro and in vivo for their therapeutic 
potential(3-5). The subject of our directed evolution study involves the PlyC 
endolysin, which is composed of PlyCA and PlyCB subunits(6). When purified and 
added extrinsically, the PlyC holoenzyme lyses group A streptococci (GAS) as 
well as other streptococcal groups in a matter of seconds and furthermore has 
been validated in vivo against GAS(7). Significantly, monitoring residual enzyme 
kinetics after elevated temperature incubation provides distinct evidence that 
PlyC loses lytic activity abruptly at 45 Â°C, suggesting a short therapeutic 
shelf life, which may limit additional development of this enzyme. Further 
studies reveal the lack of thermal stability is only observed for the PlyCA 
subunit, whereas the PlyCB subunit is stable up to ~90 Â°C (unpublished 
observation). In addition to PlyC, there are several examples in literature that 
describe the thermolabile nature of endolysins. For example, the Staphylococcus 
aureus endolysin LysK and Streptococcus pneumoniae endolysins Cpl-1 and Pal lose 
activity spontaneously at 42 Â°C, 43.5 Â°C and 50.2 Â°C, respectively(8-10). 
According to the Arrhenius equation, which relates the rate of a chemical 
reaction to the temperature present in the particular system, an increase in 
thermostability will correlate with an increase in shelf life expectancy(11). 
Toward this end, directed evolution has been shown to be a useful tool for 
altering the thermal activity of various molecules in nature, but never has this 
particular technology been exploited successfully for the study of bacteriolytic 
enzymes. Likewise, successful accounts of progressing the structural stability 
of this particular class of antimicrobials altogether are nonexistent. In this 
video, we employ a novel methodology that uses an error-prone DNA polymerase 
followed by an optimized screening process using a 96 well microtiter plate 
format to identify mutations to the PlyCA subunit of the PlyC streptococcal 
endolysin that correlate to an increase in enzyme kinetic stability (Figure 1). 
Results after just one round of random mutagenesis suggest the methodology is 
generating PlyC variants that retain more than twice the residual activity when 
compared to wild-type (WT) PlyC after elevated temperature treatment.

DOI: 10.3791/4216
PMCID: PMC3520584
PMID: 23169108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Mar;25(3):380-4. doi: 
10.1097/MEG.0b013e32835b7124.

Surgical management of gallbladder disease in the very elderly: are we operating 
them at the right time?

Lupinacci RM(1), Nadal LR, Rego RE, Dias AR, Marcari RS, Lupinacci RA, Farah JF.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, SÃ£o Paulo Estate Employees Hospital, SÃ£o 
Paulo, Brazil. rmlupinacci@gmail.com

Comment in
    Eur J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Jun;25(6):749.

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy rises worldwide and the prevalence of gallstones 
increases with age, the number of very elderly patients requiring treatment for 
gallstone diseases is increasing. The aim of this study was to compare the 
results of cholecystectomy in patients 80 years or older according to different 
clinical presentations.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study of 81 patients 80 years or older. 
Indications for surgery were stratified into three groups: outpatients 
(symptomatic chronic cholecystitis), inpatients (complicated gallstone 
diseases), and urgent patients (acute cholecystitis). Data analysis included 
age, sex, the American Society of Anesthesiologists score, indication for 
surgery, length of hospital stay, morbidity, and mortality.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 83.9 (range 80-94 years); there were 
34 (42%) men. Thirty patients were operated on for acute cholecystitis. Patients 
in the urgency group significantly required the ICU more often, required a 
longer hospital stay, and had more complications, with 32% mortality. No 
differences were found between inpatients and outpatients, with both groups 
presenting low morbidity, no mortality, and the same postoperative length of 
stay.
CONCLUSION: More than 80% of the patients were operated on because of 
complicated gallstone disease. Although the outcomes of patients undergoing 
semielective cholecystectomy were similar to those of patients treated as 
outpatients, patients operated with acute cholecystitis presented extremely high 
morbidity and mortality rates. Thus, we can only recommend that early elective 
cholecystectomy be performed in elderly patients as soon as they are found to 
have symptomatic gallstones. Also, further trials are required to elucidate the 
optimal management of acute cholecystitis in elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1097/MEG.0b013e32835b7124
PMID: 23169310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. AIDS. 2013 Mar 13;27(5):795-801. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32835c54f9.

The cost-effectiveness of expanded HIV screening in the United States.

Lucas A(1), Armbruster B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Industrial Engineering and Management Science, Northwestern 
University, Evanston, IL, USA. aalucas@u.northwestern.edu

OBJECTIVE: The current Centers of Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
guidelines from 2006 recommend a one-time test for low-risk individuals and 
annual testing for those at high risk. These guidelines may not be aggressive 
enough, even for those at low risk of infection, due to the earlier initiation 
of HAART and a movement towards a test-and-treat environment. We evaluated the 
optimal testing frequencies for various risk groups in comparison to the CDC 
recommendations.
METHODS: We build a deterministic mathematical model optimizing the tradeoff 
between the societal cost of testing and the benefits over a patient's lifetime 
of earlier diagnosis.
RESULTS: Under a test-and-treat scenario with immediate initiation of HAART, the 
optimal testing frequency is every 2.4 years for low-risk (0.01% annual 
incidence) individuals; every 9 months for moderate risk (0.1% incidence) 
individuals; and every 3 months for high-risk (1.0% incidence) individuals. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness of the optimal policy is $ 
36â,342/quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) for low-risk individuals and $ 
45â,074/QALY for high-risk individuals compared with 20-year and annual testing, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: The current CDC guidelines for HIV testing are too conservative, and 
more frequent testing is cost-effective for all risk groups.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32835c54f9
PMID: 23169333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Mediterr J Hematol Infect Dis. 2012;4(1):e2012058. doi:
10.4084/MJHID.2012.058.  Epub 2012 Oct 3.

Quality of life in patients with thalassemia major and intermedia in kerman-iran 
(I.R.).

Safizadeh H(1), Farahmandinia Z, Nejad SS, Pourdamghan N, Araste M.

Author information:
(1)MD. MPH, Neurosciences Research Center, Kerman University of Medical 
Sciences, Kerman, Iran.

Thalassemia is the most common hemoglobin disorder in the world and thalassemia 
major and intermedia stand among the most severe forms. Due to recent 
improvements in treatment, patients with thalassemia have longer life 
expectancies; hence it is of utmost importance to pay careful attention to their 
quality of life together with life expectancy. This study was conducted to 
assess the quality of life in patients with thalassemia and also to compare it 
between thalassemia major and intermedia. In this cross-sectional study, 
patients who referred for blood transfusion or follow-up visits were evaluated 
for their quality of life (QOL). Short Form-36 questionnaire was applied to 
evaluate QOL. In this study, 308 patients with a mean age of 22.95Â±4.82 years 
were evaluated. The scores of QOL were regarded as moderate in eight domains 
under evaluation; the least score was given to General Health (53.05Â±16.96) 
whereas the highest score was given to Physical Functioning (67.95Â±22.68). The 
QOL in the patients with thalassemia major was better than those with 
thalassemia intermedia regarding Physical Functioning and Role Limitation 
Emotional domains. Compared to injecting chelators, patients who received oral 
chelators showed to have a better QOL considering Social Functioning and Mental 
Health domain. The patients under study didn't have a satisfying QOL ; the QOL 
of patients with thalassemia major was better than that of patients with 
thalassemia intermedia in only 2 domains of sf-36(Physical Functioning & Role 
limitation-Emotional). It is then essential that experts pay proper attention to 
improve QOL among patients.

DOI: 10.4084/MJHID.2012.058
PMCID: PMC3499998
PMID: 23170187


679. Int J Equity Health. 2012 Nov 21;11:71. doi: 10.1186/1475-9276-11-71.

Social inequalities in life expectancy and mortality during the transition 
period of economic crisis (1993-2010) in Korea.

Son M(1), Cho Y, Oh J, Kawachi I, Yi J, Kwon S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Medical College, Kangwon National 
University, Kangwon, South Korea.

BACKGROUNDS: This study examines social inequalities in life expectancy and 
mortality during the transition period of the Korean economic crisis (1993-2010) 
among Korean adults aged 40 and over.
METHODS: Data from the census and the national death file from the Statistics 
Korea are employed to calculate life expectancy and age-specific-death-rates 
(ASDR) by age, gender, and educational attainment for five years: 1993, 1995, 
2000, 2005, and 2010. Absolute and relative differences in life expectancy and 
Age-Specific Death Rates by educational attainment were utilized as proxy 
measures of social inequality.
RESULTS: Clear educational gradient of life expectancy was observed at age 40 by 
both sexes and across five time periods (1993, 1995, 2000, 2005, and 2010). The 
gradient became notably worse in females between 1993 and 2010 compared to the 
trend in males. The educational gradient was also found for ASDR in all five 
years, but it was more pronounced in working age groups (40s and 50s) than in 
elderly groups. The relative disadvantage of ASDR among working age Korean 
adults, both males and females, became substantially worse over time.
CONCLUSIONS: Social inequalities in life expectancy and ASDR of the working age 
group across socioeconomic status over time were closely related to the widening 
of the social difference created by the macroeconomic crisis and the expansion 
of neo-liberalism in Korea.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-11-71
PMCID: PMC3515457
PMID: 23171369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Rev Med Suisse. 2012 Nov 7;8(361):2107.

[Population aging: the challenges of success].

[Article in French]

Gold G, BÃ¼la C.

PMID: 23173344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Rev Med Suisse. 2012 Nov 7;8(361):2109-14.

[Principles for the assessment and management of polymorbid elderly patients: a 
guide for clinicians].

[Article in French]

Riat F(1), Rochat S, BÃ¼la C, Renard D, Monod S.

Author information:
(1)Service de gÃ©riatrie et rÃ©adaptation gÃ©riatrique, CUTR Sylvana, CHUV, 
Epalinges. fabienne.riat@chuv.ch

Providing care to multimorbid older patients is complex, not only because of the 
coexistence of multiple chronic conditions, but also because of their frequent 
intrication with psychological and social problems. This article describes a 
guide for clinicians to assess and manage multimorbid older patients. This guide 
was adapted from the work of a group of expert US geriatricians. It proposes 
seven steps: identification of the main problem; identification of patients' 
preferences; setting of goals of care; estimation of life expectancy; 
identification of relevant evidence in the literature; revision of the plan of 
care; and discussion of the options with the patient. The use of this guide is 
illustrated by a clinical case.

PMID: 23173345 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Rev Med Suisse. 2012 Nov 7;8(361):2115-8.

[Assessment of life expectancy in older people].

[Article in French]

Vaucher Y(1), Monod S, BÃ¼la C, Rochat S.

Author information:
(1)Service de gÃ©riatrie et rÃ©adaptation gÃ©riatrique, CHUV, CUTR Sylvana, Chemin 
de Sylvana 10, 1066 Epalinges. Yves.Vaucher@chuv.ch

Evaluation of the remaining life expectancy in elderly persons plays an 
important role in their care, most importantly when treatments are associated 
with severe side effects or when they reduce the quality of life. Prognostic 
scores, incorporating the functional status in addition to age and 
comorbidities, enable evaluation of the mortality risk during different periods 
of time. Despite some limitations, these scores are useful in establishing 
individualized treatment plans.

PMID: 23173346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2012 Jul;23(7):1927-32.

[Effects of temperature on population parameters of Therioaphis trifolii 
(Monell) (Homoptera: Aphididae)].

[Article in Chinese]

Liu CZ(1), Du JL, Zhang TW, Qian XJ, Chen YW.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Education Key Laboratory of Grassland Ecosystem/Gansu Province 
Key Laboratory of Grassland Engineering, College of Grassland Science, Gansu 
Agricultural University, Lanzhou 730070, China. liuchzh@gsau.edu.cn

To investigate the effects of temperature on the population growth of 
Therioaphis trifolii (Monell) (Homoptera: Aphididae), a laboratory experiment 
was conducted to study the development, reproduction, and life table of the 
spotted alfalfa aphid at nine constant temperatures ranged from 15 to 35 degrees 
C. The aphid could not survive at 35 degrees C. The total nymphal period 
shortened significantly with increasing temperature. From birth to adult stage, 
it required 18.33 days at 15 degrees C, but only 4.02 days at 32 degrees C. The 
survivorship of the nymphs ranged from 40.0% (32 degrees C) to 83.6% (25 degrees 
C). The average longevity of the adults ranged from 10.64 days at 32 degrees C 
to 20.87 days at 23 degrees C. The reproductive peak was advanced with 
increasing temperature, and the reproduction duration at all test temperatures 
was 3-6 days except that at 15 degrees C (15 days). The average fecundity and 
the highest fecundity were the highest at 25 degrees C, being 82.0 and 149.0 
offspring per female aphid, respectively. When the temperature increased, the 
mean generation time was gradually decreased from 31.17 days at 15 degrees C to 
10.17 days at 32 degrees C. The net reproductive rate was the highest (68.62) at 
25 degrees C and the lowest (13.96) at 32 degrees C. The intrinsic rate of 
increase was 0.10-0.30 per day, with the highest at 28 degrees C but the lowest 
at 15 degrees C. The developmental threshold temperature and thermal constant of 
the nymphs were 9.35 degrees C and 97.83 day-degrees, respectively. Unary 
quadratic equation could be used to describe the relationships of the fecundity, 
net reproductive rate, and intrinsic growth rate with the temperature.

PMID: 23173469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Rev Infirm. 2012 Nov;(185):37-40.

[Nursing practice in Lebanon: specificities and challenges].

[Article in French]

Kazan RS(1).

Author information:
(1)DÃ©partement de formation supÃ©rieure, FacultÃ© des sciences infirmiÃ¨res, 
UniversitÃ© Saint-Joseph de Beyrouth, Liban. rima.sassine@usj.edu.lb

The increase in life expectancy as well as the emergence of non-communicable 
diseases have had an influence on the nursing profession in Lebanon. In this 
predominantly female profession, the profession is recognized and encouraged to 
pursue higher education degrees and engage into research. The Order of Nurses in 
Lebanon contributes to the promotion of the professional autonomy of nursing.

PMID: 23173495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. BMC Surg. 2012;12 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S20. doi: 10.1186/1471-2482-12-S1-S20.
Epub  2012 Nov 15.

Major postoperative complications and survival for colon cancer elderly 
patients.

Grosso G(1), Biondi A, Marventano S, Mistretta A, Calabrese G, Basile F.

Author information:
(1)Department G F Ingrassia Section of Hygiene and Public Health, University of 
Catania, Via Santa Sofia 82, 95123 Catania, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Increased life expectancy has led to elevating the mean age of the 
patients at the time of diagnosis of colon cancer and subsequent treatment. 
Differences in complication rates and outcome between elderly and younger 
patients have been investigated.
METHODS: We retrospectively analysed a database containing the information of 
patients who underwent surgery for stage I-III colorectal cancer from January 
2004 to January 2012 at our institution and compared demographic, 
cancer-related, and outcomes data of 235 elderly patients with 211 patients â¤ 65 
years old.
RESULTS: Intraoperative complications did not differ between young and old 
patients whereas some differences have been found in postoperative and late 
complications: elderly patients suffered more by ileus (P = 0.024), peritonitis 
or septic shock (P = 0.017), pelvic abscess (P = 0.028), wound infection (P = 
0.031), and incisional/port herniation (P = 0.012) compared with younger 
patients. Moreover, elderly patients suffered by systemic complications such as 
cardiovascular (4.7% vs. 1.4%, P = 0.049), renal (4.7% vs. 0.5%, P = 0.006), and 
respiratory (10.6% vs. 5.2%, P = 0.036). The multivariate analysis assessing the 
odds of having a complication revealed that older age (Odd Ratio [OR] 2.75, 95% 
Confidential Interval [CI]: 1.67-4.52) and open surgery (OR 1.63, 95% CI: 
1.01-2.62) are significantly and independently associated with having a 
complication.
CONCLUSIONS: In our series, elderly patients have presented a slight higher 
incidence of comorbidities that may affect the incidence rates of postoperative 
complications. These results have implications in increasing the hospital stay 
as well as a higher rate of death.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2482-12-S1-S20
PMCID: PMC3499273
PMID: 23173563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(13):2351-65. doi: 10.2174/1381612811319130003.

Effect of aging on metabolic pathways in endothelial progenitor cells.

Felice F(1), Barsotti MC, Poredos P, Balbarini A, Di Stefano R.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac, Thoracic and Vascular Department, University of Pisa, Via Paradisa 
2, 56124 Pisa, Italy. francescadi@hotmail.it

Age represents a significant risk factor for the onset and progression of 
cardiovascular disease, with the increase in life expectancy in developed 
countries going in parallel with increased incidence of such pathologies. 
Treatment strategies alternative or additive to pharmacological treatments are 
needed. The relationship between aging and progenitor cell-mediated repair is of 
great interest. Endothelial progenitor cells (EPC) mediate repair mechanisms for 
endothelial regeneration and maintenance, but they are subject to age-associated 
changes affecting negatively their number and/or function. Aim of this review is 
to examine the impact of age on EPC-mediated vascular repair, with a focus on 
the metabolic pathways involved and on the therapeutic targets with potential 
for attenuating this effect.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612811319130003
PMID: 23173584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. BMC Surg. 2012;12 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S36. doi: 10.1186/1471-2482-12-S1-S36.
Epub  2012 Nov 15.

Centenarians and supercentenarians: a black swan. Emerging social, medical and 
surgical problems.

Vacante M(1), D'Agata V, Motta M, Malaguarnera G, Biondi A, Basile F, 
Malaguarnera M, Gagliano C, Drago F, Salamone S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Senescence, Urological and Neurological Sciences, Cannizzaro 
Hospital Via Messina 829, 95125 University of Catania, Italy.

The Black Swan Theory was described by Nassim Nicholas Taleb in his book "The 
Black Swan". This theory refers to "high-impact, hard-to-predict, and rare 
events beyond the realm of normal expectations". According to Taleb's criteria, 
a Black Swan Event is a surprise, it has a major impact and after the fact, the 
