moderate to severe RA.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047373
PMCID: PMC3467255
PMID: 23056637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


392. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e47473. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047473. Epub 2012
Oct 9.

Cost-effectiveness of apixaban compared with warfarin for stroke prevention in 
atrial fibrillation.

Lee S(1), Mullin R, Blazawski J, Coleman CI.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, University of Connecticut, Storrs, United States of 
America.

BACKGROUND: Apixaban was shown to be superior to adjusted-dose warfarin in 
preventing stroke or systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) 
and at least one additional risk factor for stroke, and associated with reduced 
rates of hemorrhage. We sought to determine the cost-effectiveness of using 
apixaban for stroke prevention.
METHODS: Based on the results from the Apixaban Versus Warfarin in Patients with 
Atrial Fibrillation (ARISTOTLE) trial and other published studies, we 
constructed a Markov model to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of apixaban versus 
warfarin from the Medicare perspective. The base-case analysis assumed a cohort 
of 65-year-old patients with a CHADS(2) score of 2.1 and no contraindication to 
oral anticoagulation. We utilized a 2-week cycle length and a lifetime time 
horizon. Outcome measures included costs in 2012 US$, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), life years saved and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Under base case conditions, quality adjusted life expectancy was 10.69 
and 11.16 years for warfarin and apixaban, respectively. Total costs were 
$94,941 for warfarin and $86,007 for apixaban, demonstrating apixaban to be a 
dominant economic strategy. Upon one-way sensitivity analysis, these results 
were sensitive to variability in the drug cost of apixaban and various 
intracranial hemorrhage related variables. In Monte Carlo simulation, apixaban 
was a dominant strategy in 57% of 10,000 simulations and cost-effective in 98% 
at a willingness-to-pay threshold of $50,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with AF and at least one additional risk factor for 
stroke and a baseline risk of ICH risk of about 0.8%, treatment with apixaban 
may be a cost-effective alternative to warfarin.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047473
PMCID: PMC3467203
PMID: 23056642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Dr. Coleman has received 
research funding from Janssen Pharmaceuticals Inc. and is a member of their 
Speaker's Bureau. No other authors have any conflicts of interest to report.


393. Omega (Westport). 2012;65(3):173-87. doi: 10.2190/OM.65.3.a.

Place of death among Botswana's oldest old.

Lazenby JM(1), Olshvevski J.

Author information:
(1)Yale University School of Nursing, New Haven, CT 06536-0740, USA. 
mark.lazenby@yale.edu

Botswana, a country in sub-Saharan Africa, has been in the midst of an HIV/AIDs 
pandemic that has halted its previously lengthening life expectancy trend. 
However, one group to escape immediate effects on falling life span is the 
oldest old age group (> 80 years). Their roles in the community due to the 
pandemic, however, have changed. Place of death is an important consideration in 
end-of-life care for older adults, and one which has been well studied in the 
Global North. The purpose of this article is to determine where Botswana's 
oldest old die (home or hospital), and to see whether cause of death, gender, or 
residence in a city, town, or rural area is associated with place of death. We 
use death certificate data from 2005 and 2006 to describe where the oldest old 
Batswana (the name for the people of Botswana) died, home or hospital. 
Two-thirds died at home. The mean age at death was 88.46 (+/- 6.21) years; more 
were female (56.9%); and of known causes of death, cardiovascular disease was 
the leading cause (16.8%). Most stated causes of death (62.4%) were listed as 
"unknown." Most oldest-old Batswana died in rural areas (70.1%), and in rural 
areas, proportionally more oldest old died at home compared to cities and towns. 
On multivariate analysis, being a woman > 80 years of age at death predicted 
home death. Future longitudinal study needs to determine preferences of place of 
death and the quality of death of Batswana > 80 years, especially women.

DOI: 10.2190/OM.65.3.a
PMID: 23057243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. BMC Gastroenterol. 2012 Oct 12;12:139. doi: 10.1186/1471-230X-12-139.

Effects and outcomes of interferon treatment in Japanese hepatitis C patients.

Yamasaki K(1), Tomohiro M, Nagao Y, Sata M, Shimoda T, Hirase K, Shirahama S.

Author information:
(1)Narao Medical Center, Shinkamigoto, Japan. rsr03768@nifty.com

BACKGROUND: No study has compared the long-term prognoses of hepatitis C 
patients with hepatitis C virus (HCV) antibody-negative individuals and 
investigated the effects of interferon (IFN) treatment. To clarify the long-term 
prognosis of HCV-positive residents of an isolated Japanese island and 
prospectively investigate the effects of IFN treatment in comparison with the 
HCV-negative general population.
METHODS: HCV antibody was positive in 1,343 (7.6%) of the 17,712 individuals 
screened. 792 HCV RNA-positive, HBsAg-negative subjects were enrolled. 1,584 HCV 
antibody-negative, HBsAg-negative general residents were sex- and age-matched to 
the 792 subjects. A total of 154 <70-year-old patients without liver cirrhosis 
(LC) or hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) underwent IFN treatment. The survival 
rate with all-cause death as the endpoint was determined and causes of death 
were compared.
RESULTS: The 10- and 20-year survival rates of the hepatitis C and general 
resident groups were 65.4% and 87.8%, and 40.8% and 62.5%, respectively (p < 
0.001; hazard risk ratio, 0.444; 95% confidence interval (CI): 0.389-0.507). 
There were 167 liver disease-related deaths and 223 deaths from other causes in 
the hepatitis C group, and 7 and 451, respectively, in the general resident 
group. Liver disease-related death accounted for 43.8% and 1.5% of deaths in the 
hepatitis C and general resident groups (p < 0.0001). The cumulative survival 
rate of the hepatitis C patients without IFN (n = 328) was significantly lower 
than the gender- and age-matched general resident group (n = 656) (p < 0.0001) 
but there was no significant difference between the IFN-treated (n = 154) and 
general resident groups (n = 308).
CONCLUSIONS: In the hepatitis C group, the proportion of liver disease-related 
death was markedly higher, and the survival rate lower, than the general 
resident group. Introduction of IFN treatment in <70-year-old patients with 
hepatitis C without LC or HCC improved the survival rate to a level comparable 
to that of the general residents.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-230X-12-139
PMCID: PMC3502559
PMID: 23057417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Popul Stud (Camb). 2013;67(1):61-81. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2012.724696. Epub
 2012 Oct 11.

Trends, patterns, and determinants of regional mortality in Belarus, 1990-2007.

Grigoriev P(1), Doblhammer-Reiter G, Shkolnikov V.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Germany. 
grigoriev@demogr.mpg.de

We report analyses of regional trends in overall and cause-specific mortality in 
Belarus for the period 1990-2007. We explore the respective spatial patterns and 
attempt to determine the factors responsible for the regional mortality 
variation. The results show that inter-regional mortality differentials tend to 
rise, mainly because of the growing advantage of the capital over other regions. 
The increasing variation is associated with diverging trends in mortality from 
external causes of death. Mortality tends to be higher in the eastern part of 
the country. Regional data show that changes in mortality are largely explained 
by alcohol and socio-economic conditions, as measured by unemployment and 
poverty rates. Cardiovascular and external-cause mortality are strongly 
associated with alcohol and unemployment, while poverty is an important 
predictor of suicide and homicide mortality. Clusters of elevated mortality from 
certain cancers located in the contaminated zone point to the possible impact of 
the Chernobyl accident.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2012.724696
PMCID: PMC3590752
PMID: 23057689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. J Med Econ. 2013;16(2):202-12. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.739226. Epub 2012
Nov  1.

Ipilimumab in 2nd line treatment of patients with advanced melanoma: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Barzey V(1), Atkins MB, Garrison LP, Asukai Y, Kotapati S, Penrod JR.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health Economics and Outcomes Research, 210 Pentonville Road, London, UK. 
vbarzey@uk.imshealth.com

Erratum in
    J Med Econ. 2013;16(2):212.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of ipilimumab (3 mg/kg) compared 
with best supportive care (BSC) in pre-treated advanced melanoma patients.
METHODS: The analysis was based on a US payer perspective and lifetime time 
horizon. A three-state Markov model was developed representing clinical 
outcomes, quality-of-life, and healthcare resource use of patients treated with 
ipilimumab and BSC. Transitions between states were modeled using overall and 
progression-free survival data from the MDX010-20 trial. Utility data were from 
a melanoma-specific study of the health state preferences of the general 
population. Disease management costs expressed in 2011 US Dollars were based on 
healthcare resource use observed in a US retrospective medical chart study. 
Uncertainty was analyzed using one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The gain in life years and QALYs from introducing ipilimumab over BSC 
were 1.88 years (95% CI = 1.62-2.20) and 1.14 (95% CI = 1.01-1.34) QALYs, 
respectively, over the lifetime time horizon. The estimated incremental cost of 
treating with ipilimumab vs BSC was $146,716 (95% CI = $130,992-$164,025). The 
estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were $78,218 per life year 
gained and $128,656 per QALY gained. Ipilimumab was 95% likely to be 
cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay of $146,000/QALY.
LIMITATIONS: Ipilimumab's method of action causes a tumor response pattern that 
differs from the Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors upon which the 
model is based, leading to a potential under-estimate of quality-of-life of 
ipilimumab patients. Survival and QALY gains were related to the time horizon of 
the analysis. Sensitivity analyses indicated that qualitative conclusions 
regarding the cost-effectiveness of ipilimumab were unchanged when the method of 
quality adjustment and the time horizon were varied.
CONCLUSION: The analysis shows that the estimated cost-effectiveness of 
ipilimumab is within what has been shown to be acceptable to payers for oncology 
products in the US.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.739226
PMID: 23057750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Int J Immunopathol Pharmacol. 2012 Jul-Sep;25(3):765-70. doi: 
10.1177/039463201202500324.

Chronic idiophatic urticaria and Helicobacter pylori: a specific pattern of 
gastritis and urticaria remission after Helicobacter pylori eradication.

Persechino S(1), Annibale B, Caperchi C, Persechino F, Narcisi A, Tammaro A, 
Milione M, Corleto V.

Author information:
(1)U.O.C. Dermatology, Sant' Andrea Hospital, Faculty of Psychology and Medicine 
of Rome "Sapienza", Italy.

Chronic urticaria (CU) is defined as the occurrence of spontaneous wheals for a 
duration of more than 6 weeks and is the most frequent skin disease, with 
prevalence ranging between 15 and 25%, and is a seriously disabling condition, 
with social isolation and mood changes causing a significant degree of 
dysfunction and quality of life impairment to many patients. The main clinical 
features of CU are the repeated occurrence of transient eruptions of pruritic 
wheals or patchy erythema on the skin that last less than 24 hours and disappear 
without sequelae. CU is often defined as chronic idiopathic urticaria (CIU) 
because the causes of CU remain unknown in the great majority (70-95%) of 
patients. Drugs, food, viruses, alimentary conservative substances or inhalant 
substances often seem to be involved in determining CIU skin flare. Despite a 
general agreement that bacteria infections and parasitic infestations can be 
involved in the pathogenesis of CIU, proven evidence of these relationships is 
lacking. The aim of the present study is to evaluate the prevalence of 
Helicobacter pylori (Hp) infection, and the extension and severity of gastritis 
in a group of CIU patients compared to controls and to evaluate the 
effectiveness of eradication of Hp on the CIU symptomatology, and the role of Hp 
infection in pathogenesis of CIU.

DOI: 10.1177/039463201202500324
PMID: 23058028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2012 Nov;87(11):368-72. doi:
10.1016/j.oftal.2011.10.005.  Epub 2012 Jun 2.

[Von Hippel-Lindau disease: family study].

[Article in Spanish]

González Escobar AB(1), Morillo Sánchez MJ, García-Campos JM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Oftalmología, Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Victoria, 
Málaga, España. anadupi83@hotmail.com

CASE REPORT: The case of 5 members of a family who suffer from Von Hippel-Lindau 
disease (VHL) is presented. It is shown that retinal capillary hemangioma was 
the main ophthalmic symptom, with hemovitreous and tractional retinal detachment 
as the main complications.
DISCUSSION: VHL disease is rare, but very serious, even fatal, thus it is 
important to obtain an early diagnosis by ophthalmoscopy, in order to change the 
visual prognosis and life expectancy, not only for the patient, but also for the 
family.

Copyright © 2011 Sociedad Española de Oftalmología. Published by Elsevier 
Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oftal.2011.10.005
PMID: 23058196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Complement Ther Clin Pract. 2012 Nov;18(4):197-203. doi: 
10.1016/j.ctcp.2012.06.004. Epub 2012 Jul 15.

Enhanced external counterpulsation: a novel therapy for angina.

Braverman DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, PA, USA. bravermd@einstein.edu

Improved pharmacological, invasive, and surgical therapies for cardiovascular 
diseases over the last few decades have led to an increase in life expectancy of 
individuals with angina. Despite treatment with multiple medications and 
invasive procedures, these patients remain symptomatic and functionally limited. 
Enhanced external counterpulsation (EECP) is a safe, noninvasive, 
well-tolerated, and clinically effective outpatient physical therapy for many 
patients with refractory angina. Numerous trials demonstrate positive clinical 
responses to EECP, including reductions in angina and nitrate use, increase in 
exercise tolerance, and enhanced quality of life. Several mechanisms are thought 
responsible for the clinical benefits of this therapy. Despite the marked 
success rates EECP achieves, the treatment remains largely unknown. This review 
will summarize the current evidence for the use of EECP and spark a better 
understanding of the potential role of this treatment.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctcp.2012.06.004
PMID: 23059432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Health Policy Plan. 2013 Aug;28(5):558-71. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czs094. Epub
2012  Oct 11.

Who cares about health inequalities? Cross-country evidence from the World 
Health Survey.

King NB(1), Harper S, Young ME.

Author information:
(1)McGill University, 3647 Peel St., Montreal, QC H3A 1X1, Canada. 
nicholas.king@mcgill.ca

Reduction of health inequalities within and between countries is a global health 
priority, but little is known about the determinants of popular support for this 
goal. We used data from the World Health Survey to assess individual preferences 
for prioritizing reductions in health and health care inequalities. We used 
descriptive tables and regression analysis to study the determinants of 
preferences for reducing health inequalities as the primary health system goal. 
Determinants included individual socio-demographic characteristics (age, sex, 
urban residence, education, marital status, household income, self-rated health, 
health care use, satisfaction with health care system) and country-level 
characteristics [gross domestic product (GDP) per capita, disability-free life 
expectancy, equality in child mortality, income inequality, health and public 
health expenditures]. We used logistic regression to assess the likelihood that 
individuals ranked minimizing inequalities first, and rank-ordered logistic 
regression to compare the ranking of other priorities against minimizing health 
inequalities. Individuals tended to prioritize health system goals related to 
overall improvement (improving population health and health care responsiveness) 
over those related to equality and fairness (minimizing inequalities in health 
and responsiveness, and promoting fairness of financial contribution). 
Individuals in countries with higher GDP per capita, life expectancy, and 
equality in child mortality were more likely to prioritize minimizing health 
inequalities.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czs094
PMCID: PMC3743307
PMID: 23059735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Front Psychol. 2012 Oct 8;3:380. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2012.00380. eCollection 
2012.

The Dynamic Interplay between Appraisal and Core Affect in Daily Life.

Kuppens P(1), Champagne D, Tuerlinckx F.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Psychology and Educational Sciences, KU Leuven-University of 
Leuven Leuven, Belgium ; School of Psychological Sciences, University of 
Melbourne Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

Appraisals and core affect are both considered central to the experience of 
emotion. In this study we examine the bidirectional relationships between these 
two components of emotional experience by examining how core affect changes 
following how people appraise events and how appraisals in turn change following 
how they feel in daily life. In an experience sampling study, participants 
recorded their core affect and appraisals of ongoing events; data were analyzed 
using cross-lagged multilevel modeling. Valence-appraisal relationships were 
found to be characterized by congruency: the same appraisals that were 
associated with a change in pleasure-displeasure (motivational congruency, 
other-agency, coping potential, and future expectancy), changed themselves as a 
function of pleasure-displeasure. In turn, mainly secondary appraisals of who is 
responsible and how one is able to cope with events were associated with changes 
in arousal, which itself is followed by changes in the future appraised 
relevance of events. These results integrate core affect and appraisal 
approaches to emotion by demonstrating the dynamic interplay of how appraisals 
are followed by changes in core affect which in turn change our basis for 
judging future events.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2012.00380
PMCID: PMC3466066
PMID: 23060842


402. Front Microbiol. 2012 Aug 8;3:287. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2012.00287.
eCollection  2012.

Food applications of natural antimicrobial compounds.

Lucera A(1), Costa C, Conte A, Del Nobile MA.

Author information:
(1)Lab of Food Processing and Packaging, Department of Food Science, 
Agricultural Faculty, University of Foggia Foggia, Italy.

In agreement with the current trend of giving value to natural and renewable 
resources, the use of natural antimicrobial compounds, particularly in food and 
biomedical applications, becomes very frequent. The direct addition of natural 
compounds to food is the most common method of application, even if numerous 
efforts have been made to find alternative solutions to the aim of avoiding 
undesirable inactivation. Dipping, spraying, and coating treatment of food with 
active solutions are currently applied to product prior to packaging as valid 
options. The aim of the current work is to give an overview on the use of 
natural compounds in food sector. In particular, the review will gather numerous 
case-studies of meat, fish, dairy products, minimally processed fruit and 
vegetables, and cereal-based products where these compounds found application.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2012.00287
PMCID: PMC3441195
PMID: 23060862


403. Oncology (Williston Park). 2012 Sep;26(9):793-801.

Adjuvant therapy of breast cancer in women 70 years of age and older: tough 
decisions, high stakes.

Jones EL(1), Leak A, Muss HB.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina, 
USA.

Comment in
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2012 Sep;26(9):804, 806.
    Oncology (Williston Park). 2012 Sep;26(9):811-2.

In most Western nations, the incidence and mortality rates for breast cancer 
rise dramatically with increasing age, and in the coming decades oncologists 
will be faced with managing an increasing number of older patients with breast 
cancer. Having the knowledge and tools to optimally treat this group will be 
essential. The challenge of caring for an older cancer patient is to provide 
treatment options that maximize long-term survival and account for life 
expectancy, comorbidities, and the effects of treatment on function. For 
example, a mild treatment-induced peripheral neuropathy can transform a 
functioning elder into one who is dependent on institutional care. Complicating 
matters, there is a paucity of data from randomized trials on the risks and 
benefits of our newer and increasingly effective treatments in older breast 
cancer patients. In this review we will discuss how to evaluate older breast 
cancer patients, including estimating survival, defining functional limitations, 
and providing guidelines for optimal adjuvant therapies.

PMID: 23061331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. J Neurosurg. 2012 Dec;117(6):999-1006. doi: 10.3171/2012.9.JNS12294. Epub
2012  Oct 12.

Surgery for convexity meningioma: Simpson Grade I resection as the goal: 
clinical article.

Hasseleid BF(1), Meling TR, Rønning P, Scheie D, Helseth E.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

Comment in
    J Neurosurg. 2012 Dec;117(6):997-8; discussion 998.

OBJECT: Recently the relevance of Simpson resection grade as a prognostic factor 
for recurrence of WHO Grade I meningiomas was challenged, contradicting many 
previous scientific reports and traditional neurosurgical teaching. The 
objective of this study was to determine whether the predictive value of Simpson 
resection grade is outdated or remains valid with respect to meningioma 
recurrence and overall survival.
METHODS: All patients at least 16 years old who underwent primary craniotomies 
for convexity meningiomas at Oslo University-affiliated hospitals 
(Rikshospitalet and Ullevål University Hospitals) in the period between January 
1, 1990, and January 27, 2011, were included. Overall survival and 
retreatment-free survival rates were correlated with patient- and 
surgery-specific factors.
RESULTS: Three hundred ninety-one consecutive patients were included in the 
study. The median patient age was 60.1 years (range 19-92 years). The 
female-to-male ratio was 2.1:1. The WHO grades were Grade I in 353 (90.3%), 
Grade II in 22 (5.6%), and Grade III in 16 (4.1%). The follow-up rate was 100%. 
Median follow-up time was 7.1 years (range 0.0-20.9 years) and total observation 
time was 3147 patient-years. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year overall survival rates were 
96%, 89%, and 78%, respectively. Age, sex, WHO grade, and Simpson grade were 
significantly associated with overall survival. The 1-, 5-, and 10-year 
retreatment-free survival rates were 99%, 94%, and 90%, respectively. Simpson 
resection grade and WHO grade were significantly associated with 
retreatment-free survival. The hazard ratios for retreatment after combined 
Simpson resection Grades II+III and IV+V were 4.9- and 13.2-times higher than 
after Simpson Grade I resection, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Simpson Grade I resection should continue to be the goal for 
convexity meningiomas.

DOI: 10.3171/2012.9.JNS12294
PMID: 23061394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. BMC Public Health. 2012 Oct 13;12:872. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-872.

Modeling the impact of the difference in cross-protection data between a human 
papillomavirus (HPV)-16/18 AS04-adjuvanted vaccine and a human papillomavirus 
(HPV)-6/11/16/18 vaccine in Canada.

Kohli M(1), Lawrence D, Haig J, Anonychuk A, Demarteau N.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Health Economics and Outcomes Research, 5500 North Service Rd, 
Burlington, ON L7L 6W6, Canada. michele.kohli@optum.com

BACKGROUND: In Canada, two vaccines that have demonstrated high efficacy against 
infection with human papillomavirus (HPV) types -16 and -18 are available. The 
HPV-6/11/16/18 vaccine provides protection against genital warts (GW) while the 
HPV-16/18 vaccine may provide better protection against other oncogenic HPV 
types. In this analysis, the estimated clinical and economic benefit of each of 
these vaccines was compared in the Canadian setting.
METHODS: A Markov model of the natural history of HPV infection among women, 
cervical cancer (CC) and GW was used to estimate the impact of vaccinating a 
cohort of 100,000 12-year-old females on lifetime outcomes and healthcare system 
costs (no indirect benefit in males included). A budget impact model was used to 
estimate the impact of each vaccine by province.
RESULTS: In the base case, vaccination with the HPV-16/18 vaccine was predicted 
to prevent 48 additional CC cases, and 16 additional CC deaths, while 
vaccination with the HPV-6/11/16/18 vaccine was predicted to prevent 6,933 
additional GW cases. Vaccination with the HPV-16/18 vaccine was estimated to 
save 1 additional discounted quality adjusted life year (QALY) at an overall 
lower lifetime cost to the healthcare system compared to the HPV-6/11/16/18 
vaccine (assuming vaccine price parity). In sensitivity analyses, the 
HPV-6/11/16/18 vaccine was associated with greater QALYs saved when the 
cross-protection efficacy of the HPV-16/18 vaccine was reduced, or the burden of 
GW due to HPV-6/11 was increased. In most scenarios with price parity, the 
lifetime healthcare cost of the strategy with the HPV-16/18 vaccine was 
predicted to be lower than the HPV-6/11/16/18 vaccine. In the probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses, the HPV-16/18 vaccine provided more QALY benefit than the 
HPV-6/11/16/18 vaccine in 49.2% of scenarios, with lower relative lifetime costs 
in 83.5% of scenarios.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the predicted lifetime healthcare costs and QALYs saved by 
implementing each of the vaccines are similar. Vaccination with the HPV-16/18 
vaccine is expected to be associated with reduced CC disease morbidity and 
mortality compared to vaccination with the HPV-6/11/16/18 vaccine. Differences 
in these outcomes depend on the extent of cervical disease prevented by 
cross-protection and the burden of GW caused by HPV-6/11.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-872
PMCID: PMC3503751
PMID: 23061913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Public Health. 2012 Dec;126(12):1024-31. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.08.012.
Epub  2012 Oct 9.

Measuring the burden of disease and injury in Spain using disability-adjusted 
life years: an updated and policy-oriented overview.

Gènova-Maleras R(1), Álvarez-Martín E, Morant-Ginestar C, Fernández de 
Larrea-Baz N, Catalá-López F.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care General Directorate, Regional Health Council, Madrid, Spain. 
ricard.genova@salud.madrid.org

OBJECTIVE: To provide a comprehensive and detailed overview of the burden of 
disease in Spain for 2008. Implications for public health policies are 
discussed.
STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional population-based study.
METHODS: Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) were calculated at country level 
using the methodology developed in the Global Burden of Disease study. DALYs 
were divided into years of life lost and years of life lived with disability. 
Results were obtained using Spanish mortality data for 2008 and morbidity data 
estimated previously by the World Health Organization for Euro-A.
RESULTS: In 2008, DALYs lost due to all diseases and injuries were estimated at 
5.1 million. Non-communicable diseases accounted for 89.2% of the total DALYs. 
The leading causes of DALYs were neurological and mental disorders (29.9%), 
malignant neoplasms (15.8%) and cardiovascular diseases (12.5%). The main 
specific causes included depression (5.5%), ischaemic heart disease (5.5%), lung 
cancer (5.3%) and alcohol abuse (4.7%) among males; and depression (11.7%), 
dementias (10.0%), hearing loss (4.2%) and cerebrovascular disease (3.5%) among 
females.
CONCLUSIONS: Measuring DALYs specifically for Spain represents a systematic 
analysis of population health losses, and also provides an important measure to 
track the outcomes of future health interventions.

Copyright © 2012 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.08.012
PMID: 23062632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Ophthalmology. 2012 Dec;119(12):2558-62. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.015.
Epub  2012 Oct 9.

Clinical applications of cost analysis of diabetic macular edema treatments.

Smiddy WE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami 
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida 33101-6880, USA. wsmiddy@med.miami.edu

Erratum in
    Ophthalmology. 2013 Apr;120(4):676.

OBJECTIVE: To apply cost-benefit analyses in specific circumstances in which the 
results of multiple modalities of treating diabetic macular edema (DME) are 
similar, as a basis for considering economic ramifications in clinically 
relevant applications.
DESIGN: A model of resource use, outcomes, and cost-effectiveness and utility.
PARTICIPANTS: There were no participants.
METHODS: Results from published clinical trials (index studies) of laser, 
intravitreal corticosteroids, intravitreal anti-vascular endothelial growth 
factor (VEGF) agents, and vitrectomy trials were used to ascertain visual 
benefit and clinical protocols of patients with DME. Calculations followed from 
the costs of 1 year of treatment for each modality and the visual benefits as 
ascertained.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Visual acuity (VA) saved, cost of therapy, cost per line 
saved, cost per line-year saved, and costs per quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) saved.
RESULTS: Four specific situations were observed or analyzed: (1) Treatment 
results for DME causing VA loss <20/200 show at least as much visual benefit for 
intravitreal triamcinolone (IVTA) versus laser; (2) a subgroup analysis of 
pseudophakic DME eyes shows equivalent visual results with anti-VEGF treatment 
versus laser combined with IVTA; (3) eyes with VA of ≥ 20/32 have been studied 
only by laser; and (4) less frequent use of aflibercept yields equivalent visual 
results as more frequent treatment. When the results are equivalent, opting for 
the less-expensive treatment option could yield cost savings of 40% to 88%.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness analyses can be clinically relevant and may be 
considered when formulating and applying treatment strategies for some subsets 
of patients with DME.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial 
interest in any materials discussed in this article.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.09.015
PMID: 23062655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Maturitas. 2012 Dec;73(4):312-7. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2012.09.012. Epub
2012  Oct 11.

Exercise and longevity.

Gremeaux V(1), Gayda M, Lepers R, Sosner P, Juneau M, Nigam A.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Prevention and Rehabilitation Center (Centre ÉPIC), Montreal 
Heart Institute, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

Aging is a natural and complex physiological process influenced by many factors, 
some of which are modifiable. As the number of older individuals continues to 
increase, it is important to develop interventions that can be easily 
implemented and contribute to "successful aging". In addition to a healthy diet 
and psychosocial well-being, the benefits of regular exercise on mortality, and 
the prevention and control of chronic disease affecting both life expectancy and 
quality of life are well established. We summarize the benefits of regular 
exercise on longevity, present the current knowledge regarding potential 
mechanisms, and outline the main recommendations. Exercise can partially reverse 
the effects of the aging process on physiological functions and preserve 
functional reserve in the elderly. Numerous studies have shown that maintaining 
a minimum quantity and quality of exercise decreases the risk of death, prevents 
the development of certain cancers, lowers the risk of osteoporosis and 
increases longevity. Training programs should include exercises aimed at 
improving cardiorespiratory fitness and muscle function, as well as flexibility 
and balance. Though the benefits of physical activity appear to be directly 
linked to the notion of training volume and intensity, further research is 
required in the elderly, in order to develop more precise recommendations, 
bearing in mind that the main aim is to foster long-term adherence to physical 
activity in this growing population.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2012.09.012
PMID: 23063021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Ann Thorac Surg. 2013 Jan;95(1):98-104. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2012.08.005.  Epub 2012 Oct 11.

Cost-effectiveness of mitral valve repair versus replacement by biologic or 
mechanical prosthesis.

Beresniak A(1), Sabatier B, Achouh P, Menasché P, Fabiani JN.

Author information:
(1)Data Mining International, Geneva, Switzerland. 
aberesniak@datamining-international.com

Comment in
    Ann Thorac Surg. 2013 Jan;95(1):104.

BACKGROUND: Surgical treatment strategies for mitral valve disease have 
progressively shifted toward repair given the better survival outcomes with this 
type of intervention. However, valve repairs and valve replacement may require 
reoperations with time. In the absence of clinical trials assessing the 
effectiveness of various mitral surgical treatments with time, we propose to 
develop cost-effectiveness models to compare sequential treatment strategies.
METHODS: Three simulation models were carried out to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of mitral valve repair as first-line treatment, compared with 
either mechanical or biologic valve replacements. Efficacy data were derived 
from both the published literature and from a specific clinical cohort of 582 
patients treated for this condition. Using the French public health care system 
perspective, relevant direct costs were derived using a local resource 
utilization assessment and official costing data sources.
RESULTS: Over 10 years, costs per success were significantly lower (p < 0.01) 
for the mitral valve repair strategy versus biologic or mechanical valve 
replacements (€35,550, €49,492, and €54,634 per success, respectively). Over 20 
years, costs per success were significantly lower (p < 0.01) for the mechanical 
valve replacement strategy compared with the mitral valve repair and biologic 
valve replacement (€94,763, €100,053, and €147,484 per success, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the increased referral rate in older patients with 
degenerative mitral valve disease, and their shorter life expectancy, these 
results show that when medically required and technically practicable, mitral 
valve repair should be considered as the first-line strategy.

Copyright © 2013 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2012.08.005
PMID: 23063201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Exp Gerontol. 2013 Feb;48(2):229-39. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.09.007. Epub
2012  Oct 10.

Curcumin is an early-acting stage-specific inducer of extended functional 
longevity in Drosophila.

Soh JW(1), Marowsky N, Nichols TJ, Rahman AM, Miah T, Sarao P, Khasawneh R, 
Unnikrishnan A, Heydari AR, Silver RB, Arking R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Wayne State University, Detroit, 48202, 
USA. jungwon.soh@gmail.com

Larval feeding with curcumin induces an extended health span with significantly 
increased median and maximum longevities in the adult fly. This phenotype is 
diet insensitive and shows no additive effect on longevity when combined with an 
adult dietary restriction (DR) diet, suggesting that curcumin and DR operate via 
the same or overlapping pathways for this trait. This treatment significantly 
slows the aging rate so that it is comparable with that of genetically selected 
long lived animals. The larval treatment also enhances the adult animal's 
geotactic activity in an additive manner with DR, suggesting that curcumin and 
DR may use different pathways for different traits. Feeding the drug to adults 
during only the health span also results in a significantly extended health span 
with increased median and maximum life span. This extended longevity phenotype 
is induced only during these stage-specific periods. Feeding adults with the 
drug over their whole life results in a weakly negative effect on median 
longevity with no increase in maximum life span. There are no negative effects 
on reproduction, although larval curcumin feeding increases development time, 
and also apparently accelerates the normal late-life neuromuscular degeneration 
seen in the legs. Gene expression data from curcumin-fed larvae shows that the 
TOR pathway is inhibited in the larvae and the young to midlife adults, although 
several other genes involved in longevity extension are also affected. These 
data support the hypothesis that curcumin acts as if it is a DR mimetic 
nutraceutical. These data also suggest that the search for DR mimetics may be 
enhanced by the use of stage-specific screening of candidate molecules.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.09.007
PMID: 23063786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Exp Gerontol. 2013 Jul;48(7):596-602. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.09.009. Epub
 2012 Oct 11.

Regulation of longevity by the reproductive system.

Antebi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing, Gleueler Str. 50a, D-50931 
Cologne, Germany. AAntebi@age.mpg.de

Pioneering work in model organisms reveals that the reproductive system is 
involved not only in propagation of the species but also regulates organismal 
metabolism and longevity. In C. elegans, prevention of germline stem cell 
proliferation results in a 60% extension of lifespan, termed gonadal longevity. 
Gonadal longevity relies on the transcriptional activities of steroid nuclear 
receptor DAF-12, the FOXO transcription factor homolog DAF-16, the FOXA 
transcription factor homolog PHA-4, and the HNF-4-like nuclear receptor NHR-80. 
These transcription factors work in an integrated transcriptional network to 
regulate fatty acid lipolysis, autophagy, stress resistance and other processes, 
which altogether enhance homeostasis and extend life. Because the reproductive 
system also regulates longevity in other species, studies in C. elegans may shed 
light on ancient mechanisms governing reproduction and survival.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2012.09.009
PMCID: PMC3593982
PMID: 23063987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Exp Brain Res. 2012 Dec;223(4):525-32. doi: 10.1007/s00221-012-3279-1. Epub
2012  Oct 11.

Exploring the modulation of attentional capture by spatial attentional control 
settings: converging evidence from event-related potentials.

Ishigami Y(1), Hamm JP, Satel J, Klein RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Neuroscience, Life Science Centre, Dalhousie 
University, 1355 Oxford St., Halifax, NS, B3H 4R2, Canada. ishigami@dal.ca

Automatic attentional capture by a salient distractor can be prevented by 
spatial attentional control settings (ACSs) (e.g., Yantis and Jonides in J Exp 
Psychol Hum Percept Perform 16:121-134, 1990). Earlier, converging evidence for 
a spatial ACS (Eason et al. 1969) was found in event-related potentials (ERPs). 
In these studies, the ACS was defined by a single target-relevant location. In 
an extension, Ishigami et al. (Vis Cogn 17:431-456, 2009) demonstrated a 
successful ACS in performance that was based on multiple (two) target-relevant 
locations. The purpose of the current study is to seek converging evidence from 
ERPs for a spatial ACS defined by multiple (two) target-relevant locations, 
using the methods in Ishigami et al. (Vis Cogn 17:431-456, 2009). Any one of 
four figure-8s brightened uninformatively (cue) before presentation of a digit 
target calling for a speeded identification (2 or 5). A spatial ACS was 
encouraged because in different blocks, the digit targets appeared only on the 
horizontal or vertical axis. Performance was more impaired following the 
invalid-attended cues than following invalid-unattended cues, consistent with 
Ishigami et al. (Vis Cogn 17:431-456, 2009) and verifying a successful spatial 
ACS. The direction of attention significantly affected the visual evoked 
potentials (VEPs) elicited by otherwise identical cues: the amplitudes of early 
VEPs were greater when the location the cue was presented in was target-relevant 
than when the location was target-irrelevant. These results re-affirm that 
attentional capture by irrelevant salient stimuli can be modulated by spatial 
ACSs defined by multiple target locations in performance and provide converging 
evidence from ERPs for the previously established behavioral findings.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-012-3279-1
PMID: 23064790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 Apr;68(4):473-82. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls203. Epub 2012 Oct 12.

Health consequences of familial longevity influence among the Chinese elderly.

Zeng Y(1), Chen H, Shi X, Yin Z, Yang Z, Gu J, Blazer D.

Author information:
(1)Center for Study of Aging and Human Development, School of Medicine, Duke 
University, PO Box 3003, Durham, NC 27710, USA. zengyi68@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: A comparative analysis between centenarians' children and 
neighborhood controls is an efficient approach to learn how familial longevity 
influence and its interaction with environmental factors affect healthy aging. 
Yet, there are few extant studies that inform this topic; this study expands 
this literature.
METHODS: We analyze data from 417 children of centenarians and 560 neighborhood 
controls without family history of longevity in China (all participants aged 
60-80) using ordered logit regression models.
RESULTS: We found that, compared to the neighborhood controls and adjusted for 
various potentially confounding factors, centenarians' children had 
significantly better instrumental activities of daily living function(p < .001), 
smaller number of chronic conditions or health problems(p < .01), less anxiety 
and loneliness(p < .01), better cognitive function (p < .01), more resilience (p 
< .01), better self-rated health (p < .001), and better self-rated life 
satisfaction (p < .001). The results also reveal that interactions between 
familial longevity influence and one of three environmental factors (whether, as 
children, they received adequate medical care when ill, number of living 
children, and household economic conditions) may possibly affect health outcomes 
at old ages (p < .05). We discovered that effects of the environmental factors 
on health outcome are substantially stronger among elders who have no family 
history of longevity compared to centenarians' children who probably carry 
positive genes and/or lifestyle behaviors from their long-lived parent(s), which 
may promote longevity.
CONCLUSION: Familial longevity influence, through genetics and family lifestyle, 
is significantly associated with various aspects of health at older ages. 
Interactions between familial longevity influence and some environmental factors 
may affect health in old age.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls203
PMCID: PMC3593617
PMID: 23064818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2012 Nov;136(2):495-502. doi: 
10.1007/s10549-012-2286-z. Epub 2012 Oct 12.

Tamoxifen adherence and its relationship to mortality in 116 men with breast 
cancer.

Xu S(1), Yang Y, Tao W, Song Y, Chen Y, Ren Y, Liu J, Pang D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Breast Surgery, The Affiliated Tumor Hospital of Harbin Medical 
University, 150 Haping Road, Harbin 150040, China.

Recent studies have revealed that many, perhaps most women with 
hormone-responsive breast cancer have low adherence to tamoxifen adjuvant 
hormonal therapy. However, limited data are available on tamoxifen adherence in 
male breast cancer (MBC) patients. The goal of this study was to assess 
tamoxifen adherence and its relationship to mortality in MBC patients. A cohort 
of 116 men who were diagnosed with receptor-positive breast cancer between June 
1987 and July 2012 was recruited for the study using the cancer prevention and 
treatment system database of Heilongjiang Province. From the 116 patients who 
received a five-year tamoxifen prescription, only 64.6 % were still taking their 
medication 1 year later, and this percentage decreased to 46.4 and 28.7 % after 
2 and 3 years, respectively, to 25.8 % after 4 years, and to 17.7 % in the last 
year. After multivariate adjustment, factors that significantly decreased 
tamoxifen adherence were low social support [Hazard ratio (HR) = 2.45, 95 % CI 
1.32-4.55], age (HR = 1.10, 95 % CI 1.01-1.21), and adverse effects (HR = 2.19, 
95 % CI 1.57-3.04). The primary endpoints in the adherence or low-adherence 
groups from this study were overall survival (OS) and disease-free survival 
(DFS) of the MBC patients. The five- and ten-year OS of the patients was 97.9 
and 79.6 %, respectively, in the adherence group, and 84.7 and 50.4 %, 
respectively, in the low-adherence group (p = 0.008). The five- and ten-year DFS 
of the patients was 95.4 and 72.8 %, respectively, in the adherence group, and 
72.6 and 42.3 %, respectively, in the low-adherence group (p = 0.007). The 
consequences of low treatment adherence in men, who have a potentially long life 
expectancy, may be significant. In light of these findings, there is an urgent 
need to acknowledge and tackle the issue of tamoxifen adherence in this patient 
group.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-012-2286-z
PMID: 23065002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Dig Dis Sci. 2012 Dec;57(12):3240-5. doi: 10.1007/s10620-012-2432-9. Epub
2012  Oct 12.

Risk of colorectal adenomas in women with prior breast cancer.

Shukla A(1), Shukla S, Osowo A, Mashtare T, Bhutani MS, Guha S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University at Buffalo, 462 Grider Street, Buffalo, NY 
14215, USA. ashukla2@buffalo.edu

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Longer life expectancy in patients with prior breast cancer 
may increase their risk of developing other primary cancers, including 
colorectal cancer (CRC). Whether the risk of developing CRC in this patient 
population is higher in comparison to those with no prior cancer remains 
unclear. The purpose of this study was to compare the prevalence of colorectal 
adenomas and any CRC in breast cancer survivors with those who have no history 
of prior cancer and assess any difference with use of antiestrogen therapy.
METHODS: We compared the prevalence of colorectal cancer and adenomas in breast 
cancer survivors with that of a group of matched controls. Eligible survivors 
were ≤85 years of age; had initially been diagnosed with stage 0, I, II, or III 
breast cancer; had completed all cancer treatments with the exception of 
adjuvant antiestrogen therapy; and had no evidence of recurrence on follow-up. 
We used the screening colonoscopy database at our institution to identify age-, 
sex-, and race-matched controls with no history of cancer.
RESULTS: We identified 302 study-eligible breast cancer survivors and 302 
matched controls. No colorectal cancers were found in either group. Forty-one 
breast cancer survivors and 30 controls had tubular adenomas; four survivors and 
three controls had villous adenoma; and eight survivors and ten controls had 
advanced adenoma. Multivariate regression analysis revealed that adjuvant 
antiestrogen therapy was not significantly associated with an increased risk of 
advanced adenoma.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of colorectal adenomas in breast cancer survivors 
and controls was similar. Breast cancer survivors, including those receiving 
adjuvant antiestrogen therapies may follow the colorectal screening guidelines 
used for average-risk population.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-012-2432-9
PMID: 23065089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Mol Biol Rep. 2013 Feb;40(2):1721-33. doi: 10.1007/s11033-012-2223-6. Epub
2012  Oct 14.

Soft tissue fibroblasts from well healing and chronic human wounds show 
different rates of myofibroblasts in vitro.

Schwarz F(1), Jennewein M, Bubel M, Holstein JH, Pohlemann T, Oberringer M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma-, Hand- and Reconstructive Surgery, Saarland University, 
Kirrberger Strasse, Bldng. 57, 66421, Homburg, Germany.

Due to an increasing life expectancy in western countries, chronic wound 
treatment will be an emerging challenge in the next decades. Because therapies 
are improving slowly appropriate diagnostic tools enabling the early prediction 
of the healing success remain to be developed. We used a well-established in 
vitro assay in combination with the analysis of 27 cytokines to discriminate 
between fibroblasts from chronic (n = 6) and well healing (n = 8) human wounds. 
Proliferation and migration of the cells as well as their response to hypoxia 
and their behaviour in co-culture with microvascular endothelial cells were 
analyzed. Myofibroblast differentiation, a time-limited essential process of 
regular wound healing, was also quantified. Besides weaker proliferation and 
migration significantly higher rates of myofibroblasts were detected in chronic 
wounds. With respect to the cytokine release, there was a clear trend within the 
group of chronic wound fibroblasts, which were releasing interferon-γ, monocyte 
chemotactic protein-1, granulocyte-macrophage colony stimulating factor and 
basic fibroblast growth factor in higher amounts than fibroblasts from healing 
wounds. Although the overall response of both groups of fibroblasts to hypoxia 
and to the contact with endothelial cells was similar, especially chronic wound 
fibroblasts seemed to benefit from the endothelial interaction during hypoxia 
and displayed better migration characteristics. The study shows (1) that the 
assay can identify specific features of fibroblasts derived from different human 
wounds and (2) that wound fibroblasts are varying in their response to the 
chosen parameters. Thus, current therapeutic approaches and individual healing 
prediction might benefit from this assay.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-012-2223-6
PMID: 23065295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Neth J Med. 2012 Oct;70(8):357-64.

Which long-acting bronchodilator is most cost-effective for the treatment of 
COPD?

Hoogendoorn M(1), Kappelhoff BS, Overbeek JA, Wouters EF, Rutten-van Mölken MP.
