structure was found to resemble that of an (ancestral) cyanobacterium. Using 
elastic network modeling to investigate the ring's eigen-modes, we found five 
dominant modes of motion that fell into three classes. They revealed the 
following deformations of the ring: (I) ellipsoidal, (II) opposite twisting of 
the luminal circular surface of the ring against the stromal surface, and (III) 
kinking of the hairpin-shaped monomers in the middle, resulting in 
bending/stretching of the ring. Extension of the elastic network analysis to 
rings of different c(n)-symmetry revealed the same classes of dominant modes as 
in P. sativum (c(14)). We suggest the following functional roles for these 
classes: The first and third classes of modes affect the interaction of the 
c-ring with its counterparts in F(O), namely subunits a and bb'. These modes are 
likely to be involved in ion-translocation and torque generation. The second 
class of deformation, along with deformations of subunits γ and ε might serve to 
elastically buffer the torque transmission between F(O) and F(1).

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043045
PMCID: PMC3458034
PMID: 23049735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


365. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e45912. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045912. Epub 2012 Sep
25.

A versatile overexpression strategy in the pathogenic yeast Candida albicans: 
identification of regulators of morphogenesis and fitness.

Chauvel M(1), Nesseir A, Cabral V, Znaidi S, Goyard S, Bachellier-Bassi S, Firon 
A, Legrand M, Diogo D, Naulleau C, Rossignol T, d'Enfert C.

Author information:
(1)Institut Pasteur, Unité Biologie et Pathogénicité Fongiques, Département 
Génomes et Génétique, Paris, France.

Candida albicans is the most frequently encountered human fungal pathogen, 
causing both superficial infections and life-threatening systemic diseases. 
Functional genomic studies performed in this organism have mainly used knock-out 
mutants and extensive collections of overexpression mutants are still lacking. 
Here, we report the development of a first generation C. albicans ORFeome, the 
improvement of overexpression systems and the construction of two new libraries 
of C. albicans strains overexpressing genes for components of signaling 
networks, in particular protein kinases, protein phosphatases and transcription 
factors. As a proof of concept, we screened these collections for genes whose 
overexpression impacts morphogenesis or growth rates in C. albicans. Our screens 
identified genes previously described for their role in these biological 
processes, demonstrating the functionality of our strategy, as well as genes 
that have not been previously associated to these processes. This article 
emphasizes the potential of systematic overexpression strategies to improve our 
knowledge of regulatory networks in C. albicans. The C. albicans plasmid and 
strain collections described here are available at the Fungal Genetics Stock 
Center. Their extension to a genome-wide scale will represent important 
resources for the C. albicans community.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045912
PMCID: PMC3457969
PMID: 23049891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have the 
following interest. Co-author Christophe d'Enfert served as an editor at PLOS 
ONE until 2010. This does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials. Please note that he is not a PLOS ONE 
Editorial Board member any more.


366. NCHS Data Brief. 2012 Jul;(99):1-8.

Death in the United States, 2010.

Minino AM(1), Murphy SL.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Center for Health 
Statistics, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

Data from the National Vital Statistics System (Mortality) Life expectancy at 
birth is 78.7 years. Hispanic females have the longest life expectancy (83.8 
years) followed by non-Hispanic white females (81.1 years). The largest decrease 
in mortality between the years 2000 and 2010 occurred in the age group under age 
25 years (15.8 percent), followed by those aged 65 years and over (13.3 
percent). States in the southeast region generally have higher death rates than 
those in other regions of the country. In 2010, the five leading causes of death 
were: heart disease, cancer, chronic lower respiratory diseases, stroke, and 
accidents. The ranking of conditions varies according to demographics such as 
age, sex, and race. The infant mortality rate reached a record-low level of 6.14 
infant deaths per 1,000 live births in 2010.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 23050606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Nov 1;30(11):1015-34. doi: 
10.2165/11597660-000000000-00000.

Cost effectiveness of hepatitis C-related interventions targeting substance 
users and other high-risk groups: a systematic review.

John-Baptiste A(1), Yeung MW, Leung V, van der Velde G, Krahn M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
a.john.baptiste@gmail.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: In developed countries, injection drug users have the 
highest prevalence and incidence of hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection. 
Clinicians and policy makers have several options for reducing morbidity and 
mortality related to HCV infection, including preventing new infections, 
screening high-risk populations, and optimizing uptake and delivery of antiviral 
therapy. Cost-effectiveness analyses provide an estimate of the value for money 
associated with adopting healthcare interventions. Our objective was to 
determine the cost effectiveness of hepatitis C interventions (prevention, 
screening, treatment) targeting substance users and other groups with a high 
proportion of substance users.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic search of MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, HealthSTAR 
and EconLit, and the grey literature. Studies were critically appraised using 
the Drummond and Jefferson, Neumann et al. and Philips et al. checklists. We 
developed and applied a quality appraisal instrument specific to 
cost-effectiveness analyses of HCV interventions. In addition, we summarized 
cost-effectiveness estimates using a single currency and year ($US, year 2009 
values).
RESULTS: Twenty-one economic evaluations were included, which addressed 
prevention (three), screening (ten) and treatment (eight). The quality of the 
analyses varied greatly. A significant proportion did not incorporate important 
aspects of HCV natural history, disease costs and antiviral therapy. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) ranged from dominant (less costly and more 
effective) to $US603,352 per QALY. However, many ICERs were less than $US100,000 
per QALY. Screening and treatment interventions involving pegylated interferon 
and ribavirin were generally cost effective at the $US100,000 per QALY 
threshold, with the exception of some subgroups, such as immune compromised 
patients with genotype 1 infections.
CONCLUSIONS: No clear consensus emerged from the studies demonstrating that 
prevention, screening or treatment provides better value for money as each 
approach can be economically attractive in certain subgroups. More high-quality 
economic evaluations of preventing, identifying and treating HCV infection in 
substance users are needed.

DOI: 10.2165/11597660-000000000-00000
PMID: 23050771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Affect Disord. 2013 Apr 25;146(3):441-6. doi: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.08.030.
Epub  2012 Oct 7.

A test of faith in God and treatment: the relationship of belief in God to 
psychiatric treatment outcomes.

Rosmarin DH(1), Bigda-Peyton JS, Kertz SJ, Smith N, Rauch SL, Björgvinsson T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, McLean Hospital/Harvard Medical School, 115 Mill 
Street, Belmont MA 02478, USA. drosmarin@mclean.harvard.edu

BACKGROUND: Belief in God is very common and tied to mental health/illness in 
the general population, yet its relevance to psychiatric patients has not been 
adequately studied. We examined relationships between belief in God and 
treatment outcomes, and identified mediating mechanisms.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective study with n=159 patients in a day-treatment 
program at an academic psychiatric hospital. Belief in God, treatment 
credibility/expectancy, emotion regulation and congregational support were 
assessed prior to treatment. Primary outcomes were treatment response as well as 
degree of reduction in depression over treatment. Secondary outcomes were 
improvements in psychological well-being and reduction in self-harm.
RESULTS: Belief in God was significantly higher among treatment responders than 
non-responders F(1,114)=4.81, p<.05. Higher levels of belief were also 
associated with greater reductions in depression (r=.21, p<.05) and self-harm 
(r=.24, p<.01), and greater improvements in psychological well-being (r=.19, 
p<.05) over course of treatment. Belief remained correlated with changes in 
depression and self-harm after controlling for age and gender. Perceived 
treatment credibility/expectancy, but not emotional regulation or community 
support, mediated relationships between belief in God and reductions in 
depression. No variables mediated relationships to other outcomes. Religious 
affiliation was also associated with treatment credibility/expectancy but not 
treatment outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Belief in God, but not religious affiliation, was associated with 
better treatment outcomes. With respect to depression, this relationship was 
mediated by belief in the credibility of treatment and expectations for 
treatment gains.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jad.2012.08.030
PMID: 23051729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Trop Med Int Health. 2012 Dec;17(12):1534-43. doi: 
10.1111/j.1365-3156.2012.03096.x. Epub 2012 Oct 11.

Economic burden of acute pesticide poisoning in South Korea.

Choi Y(1), Kim Y, Ko Y, Cha ES, Kim J, Lee WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, College of Medicine, Korea University, 
Seoul, South Korea  Office of Health Service Research, National Evidence-based 
Healthcare Collaborating Agency, Seoul, South Korea  Department of Preventive 
Medicine, College of Medicine, Keimyung University, Daegu, South Korea.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the magnitude and characteristics of the economic 
burden resulting from acute pesticide poisoning (APP) in South Korea.
METHODS: The total costs of APP from a societal perspective were estimated by 
summing the direct medical and non-medical costs together with the indirect 
costs. Direct medical costs for patients assigned a disease code of pesticide 
poisoning were extracted from the Korean National Health Insurance Reimbursement 
Data. Direct non-medical costs were estimated using the average transportation 
and caregiving costs from the Korea Health Panel Survey. Indirect costs, 
incurred by pre-mature deaths and work loss, were obtained using 2009 Life 
Tables for Korea and other relevant literature.
RESULTS: In 2009, a total of 11,453 patients were treated for APP and 1311 died, 
corresponding to an incidence of 23.1 per 100,000 population and a mortality 
rate of 2.6 per 100,000 population in South Korea. The total costs of APP were 
estimated at approximately US$ 150 million, 0.3% of the costs of total diseases. 
Costs due to pre-mature mortality accounted for 90.6% of the total costs, 
whereas the contribution of direct medical costs was relatively small.
CONCLUSION: Costs from APP demonstrate a unique characteristic of a large 
proportion of the indirect costs originating from pre-mature mortality. This 
finding suggests policy implications for restrictions on lethal pesticides and 
safe storage to reduce fatality and cost due to APP.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-3156.2012.03096.x
PMID: 23051841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 Apr;68(4):465-72. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls198. Epub 2012 Oct 9.

Relationship between serum isoflavone levels and disability-free survival among 
community-dwelling elderly individuals: nested case-control study of the 
Tsurugaya project.

Hozawa A(1), Sugawara Y, Tomata Y, Kakizaki M, Tsuboya T, Ohmori-Matsuda K, 
Nakaya N, Kuriyama S, Fukao A, Tsuji I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Epidemiology, Tohoku Medical Megabank 
Organization, Tohoku University, Sendai 980-8573, Japan. hozawa-thk@umin.ac.jp

BACKGROUND: The longer healthy life expectancy observed in Japan may be partly 
attributed to the Japanese diet. The researchers sought to examine whether serum 
isoflavone levels are associated with disability and death.
METHODS: The researchers used a nested case-control study to compare serum 
isoflavones (daidzein, genistein, glycitein, and equol) levels between 165 
participants that died or were certificated as disabled (cases) and 177 
controls. Disability was defined by certification of long-term care insurance. 
Conditional logistic regression models were used to calculate the risk of 
isoflavones for the composite outcome.
RESULTS: The proportion of cases was lower in the group with the highest levels 
of equol (34/91, 37%) compared with equol nonproducers (84/161, 52%). The risk 
of disability or death among equol producers remained reduced after adjusting 
for age and sex (odds ratio: 0.55, 95% confidence interval: 0.33-0.93). In a 
multivariate model, this risk was also unchanged (odds ratio: 0.51, 95% 
confidence interval: 0.27-0.96). There were no significant associations between 
daidzein, genistein, and glycitein with the composite endpoint.
CONCLUSIONS: Higher serum equol levels, but not any other isoflavones, were 
inversely associated with the composite endpoint of disability and death. 
Although it cannot be concluded that equol per se has preventive effects on 
disability or death, higher equol levels appear associated with better health.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls198
PMID: 23051976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2012 Dec;67(12):1400-9. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls202. Epub 2012 Oct 10.

Geriatric renal palliative care.

Swidler MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Renal Division, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, 1 Gustave L. Levy Place, New 
York, NY 10029, USA. mark.swidler@mssm.edu

Elderly patients with advanced chronic kidney disease or who are on dialysis 
should be able to live as fully and comfortably as possible. Geriatric patients 
are most interested in outcomes that will optimize mental and physical function 
and limit suffering and pain. Nephrologists must help them answer the question: 
"How will my kidney problem affect the way I live now and in the future?" This 
means management must move beyond glomerular filtration rate-related targets and 
incorporate geriatric principles that focus on assessment of function, 
comorbidities, geriatric syndromes, and quality of life issues. Therapeutic 
decisions should be individualized and directed by patient goals of care, which 
must be explored and documented. Accomplishing this requires inclusion of the 
patient's family-support system in the shared decision-making process. There is 
no substitute for spending time listening to and understanding the patient and 
family agenda, providing timely medical and prognostic updates; discussing 
realistic scenarios to balance expectations; and planting the seeds of change as 
the quantity and quality of medical events, geriatric syndromes, and 
comorbidities accumulate. Synergy of the interdisciplinary renal team with 
geriatric and palliative medicine specialists provides the expertise to achieve 
these goals. This falls into the domain of geriatric renal palliative or 
supportive care (1) and is the subject of this practical review.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls202
PMID: 23051980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. BMC Fam Pract. 2012 Oct 10;13:98. doi: 10.1186/1471-2296-13-98.

Cost-effectiveness of problem-solving treatment in comparison with usual care 
for primary care patients with mental health problems: a randomized trial.

Bosmans JE(1), Schreuders B, van Marwijk HW, Smit JH, van Oppen P, van Tulder 
MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU 
University Amsterdam, The Netherlands. j.e.bosmans@vu.nl

BACKGROUND: Mental health problems are common and are associated with increased 
disability and health care costs. Problem-Solving Treatment (PST) delivered to 
these patients by nurses in primary care might be efficient. The aim of this 
study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of PST by mental health nurses 
compared with usual care (UC) by the general practitioner for primary care 
patients with mental health problems.
METHODS: An economic evaluation from a societal perspective was performed 
alongside a randomized clinical trial. Patients with a positive General Health 
Questionnaire score (score ≥ 4) and who visited their general practitioner at 
least three times during the past 6 months were eligible. Outcome measures were 
improvement on the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale and QALYs based on the 
EQ-5D. Resource use was measured using a validated questionnaire. Missing cost 
and effect data were imputed using multiple imputation techniques. Bootstrapping 
was used to analyze costs and cost-effectiveness of PST compared with UC.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences in clinical 
outcomes at 9 months. Mean total costs were €4795 in the PST group and €6857 in 
the UC group. Costs were not statistically significantly different between the 
two groups (95% CI -4698;359). The cost-effectiveness analysis showed that PST 
was cost-effective in comparison with UC. Sensitivity analyses confirmed these 
findings.
CONCLUSIONS: PST delivered by nurses seems cost-effective in comparison with UC. 
However, these results should be interpreted with caution, since the difference 
in total costs was mainly caused by 3 outliers with extremely high indirect 
costs in the UC group.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Nederlands Trial Register ISRCTN51021015.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2296-13-98
PMCID: PMC3515338
PMID: 23052105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. World J Surg. 2013 Jul;37(7):1478-85. doi: 10.1007/s00268-012-1796-5.

Economic modeling of surgical disease: a measure of public health interventions.

Corlew DS(1).

Author information:
(1)ReSurge International, 857 Maude Avenue, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA. 
scorlew@pol.net

The measurement of the burden of disease and the interventions that address that 
burden can be done in various units. Reducing these measures to the common 
denominator of economic units (i.e., currency) enables comparison with other 
health entities, interventions, and even other fields. Economic assessment is 
complex, however, because of the multifactorial components of what constitutes 
health and what constitutes health interventions, as well as the coupling of 
those data to economic means. To perform economic modeling in a meaningful 
manner, it is necessary to: (1) define the health problem to be addressed; (2) 
define the intervention to be assessed; (3) define a measure of the effect of 
the health entity with and without the intervention (which includes defining the 
counterfactual); and (4) determine the appropriate method of converting the 
health effect to economics. This paper discusses technical aspects of how 
economic modeling can be done both of disease entities and of interventions. Two 
examples of economic modeling applied to surgical problems are then given.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-012-1796-5
PMID: 23052800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Urologe A. 2012 Oct;51(10):1368-74. doi: 10.1007/s00120-012-3011-6.

[Approach to prostate cancer in men older than 75 years: active or passive?].

[Article in German]

Spahn M(1), Haeni K.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Universitätsklinik, Inselspital Bern, Anna Seiler-Haus, CH-3010, 
Bern, Schweiz. martin.spahn@insel.ch

Based on the exponential aging of the population and the increasing life 
expectancy in industrialized western countries, prostate cancer (PCa) in elderly 
men is becoming a disease of increasing significance. Consensus exists that men 
over the age of 75 years should not be screened for PCa; however, higher age as 
a single parameter should not exclude men from being diagnosed with prostate 
cancer and treated accordingly. It is well-known that overdiagnosis and 
overtreatment are frequent in this age group. Competing mortality risks of men 
older than 75 years may supersede the risk of dying from PCa several fold. Both 
the treating physician and the patient himself should therefore balance the 
possible risks and benefits of diagnosing and treating prostate cancer 
concerning the impact on quality of life. This is of special importance when 
taking into account that the complication rates of curative treatment modalities 
are higher in older patients than in younger men and that hormonal treatment 
might have negative effects especially in older men.Age, existing comorbidities, 
cognitive and physical status in combination with specific tumor parameters are 
useful tools for an individualized treatment.Therapy should be considered for 
healthy, active men aged 75 years or older who present with high-risk PCa and/or 
with a PSA doubling time <12 months. Elderly men who are unfit or have low to 
intermediate risk PCa will most likely not benefit from treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-012-3011-6
PMID: 23053031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. Urologe A. 2012 Oct;51(10):1375-80. doi: 10.1007/s00120-012-2919-1.

[Renal function in the elderly after radical tumor nephrectomy and partial 
nephrectomy].

[Article in German]

Mehralivand S(1), Thomas C, Hampel C, Thüroff JW, Roos FC.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Universitätsklinik, Langenbeckstraße 1, 55131 Mainz, Deutschland. 
sherif.mehralivand@web.de

Due to rising life-expectancy and increasing use of tomography more elderly 
patients with incidental renal tumors are being diagnosed. The current article 
gives an overview of kidney function after renal surgery in the elderly and the 
aim is to give assistance in clinical practice for deciding how to adequately 
treat these patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-012-2919-1
PMID: 23053032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Urologe A. 2012 Oct;51(10):1419-23. doi: 10.1007/s00120-012-3019-y.

[Radical cystectomy and ileal neobladder reconstruction in elderly female 
patients over 70 years old: morbidity, functional and oncological long-term 
results].

[Article in German]

Jentzmik F(1), Schrader M, de Petriconi R, Hefty R, Doetterl J, Eickhoff A, 
Schrader AJ.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinik Ulm, Prittwitzstraße 43, 89075 Ulm, 
Deutschland. florian.jentzmik@uniklinik-ulm.de

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy is increasing the incidence and therefore the 
number of elderly female patients with bladder cancer is also increasing. The 
aim of this study was to assess long-term clinical, functional and oncological 
outcome in elderly women (≥70 years) who were treated by radical cystectomy and 
ileal neobladder reconstruction for invasive bladder cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 121 women with clinically organ-confined 
invasive urothelial carcinoma underwent radical cystecomy with an orthotopic 
ileal neobladder in Ulm between 1995 and 2010. The clinical course, functional, 
pathological, and oncological outcome of these women were analyzed 
retrospectively and compared between patients ≥70 (n=24) and <70 years of age 
(n=97). All complications which occurred during the first 90 days after surgery 
were analyzed in detail, defined and classified according to the modified 
Clavien system.
RESULTS: The overall 90 day complication rates were 66.7 % and 62.5 % for 
patients ≥70 and <70 years, respectively. Of these 54.2% and 44.8% were minor 
complications and 12.5 % and 17.7 % were major complications, respectively. 
Infections were the most frequent cause of complications with 36.7 %. Univariate 
analyses revealed that neither age nor comorbidity (ASA score) were significant 
predictors of perioperative complications. The daytime continence rates were 
comparable in both age groups (71% versus 82%, p=0.64); however, younger 
patients showed significantly higher night time urinary continence rates (43% 
versus 89%, p=0.013). Neither univariable nor multivariable analyses indicated 
that age ≥70 years had a significant impact on tumor-specific survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronological age per se does not seem to be a contraindication for 
the creation of an orthotopic ileal neobladder; however, the risk of 
postoperative incontinence seems to increase with age.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-012-3019-y
PMID: 23053038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Urologe A. 2012 Oct;51(10):1424-31. doi: 10.1007/s00120-012-2925-3.

[Robot-assisted radical prostatectomy in elderly patients: surgical, oncological 
and functional outcomes].

[Article in German]

Porres D(1), Pfister D, Labanaris AP, Zugor V, Witt JH, Heidenreich A.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Urologie, Universitätsklinikum der RWTH Aachen, 
Pauwelsstraße 30, 52074 Aachen, Deutschland. dporres@ukaachen.de

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to evaluate the perioperative oncological 
and functional outcomes after robot-assisted radical prostatectomy (RALP) in 
older men.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The records of n = 2,000 men who underwent RALP from 
February 2006 to April 2010 were retrospectively reviewed. A total of 45 
patients ≥ 75 years were indentified. Subsequently this subgroup was compared to 
the overall patient cohort with regard to perioperative results, pathological 
tumor stage, functional outcomes after 12 months and the prostate 
cancer-specific mortality and biochemical recurrence free survival.
RESULTS: The following results reflect the comparison of the cohort of patients 
who were ≥75 years of age versus the overall cohort of patients. A statistical 
difference of the parameters analyzed was observed only for minor complications 
15.5 % versus 11.4 % (p<0.05), neurovascular bundle (NVB) preservation 51.1 % 
versus 65.7 % (p<0.05) and potency after 12 months 39.6 % versus 66.2 % 
(p<0.001). Major complications were noted in 2.2 % versus 1.3 % of cases. A 
Gleason score <7 was noted in 37.4 % versus 42.8 %, a Gleason score 7 in 51.1 % 
versus 47.7 % and a Gleason score >7 in 11.6 % versus 9.5 %. Tumor stages pT2 
and pT3 were noted in 68.8 % versus 73.5 % and in 31.2 % versus 25.2 %, 
respectively. The positive surgical margin status was encountered in 11.1 % 
versus 8.9 % of cases, respectively. At 12 months 86.9 % versus 92.8 % of 
patients were continent and 39.6 % versus 66.2 % were potent, respectively. 
After a median follow-up of 17.2 months the prostate cancer-specific mortality 
in the subgroup of elderly patients was 0 % and the biochemical recurrence-free 
survival was 95.5%.
CONCLUSIONS: The RALP approach in patients ≥75 years of age is a safe surgical 
procedure with a limited complication rate, excellent oncologic and continence 
outcomes as well as acceptable erectile function. Nevertheless, RALP should be 
limited to a selected cohort of patients with a good health status and an 
individual life expectancy of more than 10 years. For the assessment of the 
final oncological benefits of RALP in this patient population a longer follow-up 
is necessary.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-012-2925-3
PMID: 23053039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. World J Urol. 2013 Feb;31(1):77-82. doi: 10.1007/s00345-012-0960-8. Epub
2012  Sep 29.

Oncologic outcomes obtained after neoadjuvant and adjuvant chemotherapy for the 
treatment of urothelial carcinomas of the upper urinary tract: a review.

Cordier J(1), Sonpavde G, Stief CG, Tilki D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Grosshadern, 
Ludwig-Maximilians-University Munich, Marchioninistr. 15, 81377, Munich, 
Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Nephroureterectomy with excision of a bladder cuff is the gold 
standard in the treatment of upper urinary tract carcinomas (UTUC). But 
especially for patients suffering from advanced tumor stages, life expectancy 
has not improved over the years with local recurrence or distant metastases 
being the main reasons for treatment failure. Chemotherapy in an adjuvant or 
neoadjuvant setting seems therefore to be a promising approach.
METHODS: The literature of the last 20 years was searched using Medline. 
Articles were chosen by using the given abstracts. Only articles written in 
English and not older than 20 years were considered.
RESULTS: Most information concerning chemotherapy of urothelial carcinomas is 
gained from studies comprising patients suffering from lower urinary tract 
carcinomas. The combination of methotrexate, adriamycin, vinblastine and 
cisplatin as well as the combination of gemcitabine and cisplatin are the most 
used chemotherapy regimens in advanced UCC and have shown beneficial results. 
The summarized data of studies for UTUC contained no level one information. Down 
staging effects as well as prolongation of survival have been shown for some 
patients treated with neoadjuvant chemotherapy, but because of the small study 
groups and the retrospective design, no definite conclusions can be drawn from 
these results. In addition, there exists an uncertainty for preoperative 
staging. Results for adjuvant chemotherapy are lacking.
CONCLUSION: No definite recommendations for peri-operative chemotherapy in UTUC 
can be derived from the current literature. Current therapy is largely based on 
extrapolation from the bladder cancer literature. Prospective studies dedicated 
to UTUC are needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-012-0960-8
PMID: 23053212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2012 Nov;136(2):547-57. doi:
10.1007/s10549-012-2268-1.  Epub 2012 Sep 30.

Economic evaluation of radiotherapy for early breast cancer after 
breast-conserving surgery in a health resource-limited setting.

Bai Y(1), Ye M, Cao H, Ma X, Xu Y, Wu B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiotherapy, Renji Hospital, Affiliated with the School of 
Medicine, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China.

The primary objective was to assess the cost-effectiveness, from the Chinese 
societal perspective, of additional radiotherapy for women with early breast 
cancer after breast-conserving surgery (BCS). The Markov model was constructed 
to simulate women's transitions across various health states based on the 
clinical course of breast cancer (no recurrence, local or distant recurrence, 
and death) and treatment strategy (radiotherapy vs. no-radiotherapy). The 
clinical and utility data were estimated from published studies. Costs were 
estimated from the perspective of Chinese society. Quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) and incremental cost-effective ratios (ICERs) were determined. 
Probabilistic and one-way sensitivity analyses were performed. The addition of 
radiotherapy following BCS was associated with improved overall survival (22.20 
vs. 19.51 years) and QALYs (13.25 vs. 11.75) and reduced lifetime costs 
($24,518.9 vs. $25,147.0). The ICER of radiotherapy vs. no-radiotherapy was 
-$420.56/QALY gained. Sensitivity, subgroup and scenario analyses indicated that 
these results were robust against plausible assumptions and variations. In 
health resource-limited settings, the addition of radiotherapy is a very 
cost-effective strategy in comparison to no-radiotherapy in women with early 
breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-012-2268-1
PMID: 23053654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. AIDS Behav. 2013 Jan;17(1):1-4. doi: 10.1007/s10461-012-0321-z.

Is the US AIDS drug assistance program cost-effective?

Pinkerton SD(1), Kibicho J, Galletly CL.

Author information:
(1)Center for AIDS Intervention Research, Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, 2071 North Summit Avenue, 
Milwaukee, WI 53202, USA. pinkrton@mcw.edu

Each year, the US AIDS drug assistance program (ADAP) provides access to 
prescription drugs-including antiretrovirals-to more than 110,000 persons living 
with HIV (PLWH) who lack adequate medical insurance. PLWH on effective 
antiretroviral therapy live longer lives, with enhanced quality of life, and are 
less likely to transmit HIV to others. There are thus significant benefits 
associated with the ADAP program. But there also are substantial costs. A 
mathematical model was used to assess the cost-effectiveness of the US ADAP 
program. Findings indicate that by providing antiretrovirals to underinsured 
persons, the ADAP program prevented 3,191 secondary infections and saved 24,922 
quality-adjusted life years in 2008. The net cost per quality-adjusted life year 
saved was $11,955, which suggests that the ADAP program is cost-effective by 
conventional standards.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-012-0321-z
PMCID: PMC4103006
PMID: 23054037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Ann Surg Oncol. 2013 Jan;20(1):5-6. doi: 10.1245/s10434-012-2615-9.

Cost-effectiveness of treatment strategies for primary operable pancreatic head 
adenocarcinoma: do we have more scientific evidence to call for further 
centralization of care?

Gajdos C, Schulick R.

Comment on
    Ann Surg Oncol. 2012 Nov;19(12):3659-67.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-012-2615-9
PMID: 23054108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Lifetime Data Anal. 2013 Jan;19(1):59-78. doi: 10.1007/s10985-012-9231-7.
Epub  2012 Sep 28.

A proportional hazards regression model with change-points in the baseline 
function.

Oueslati A(1), Lopez O.

Author information:
(1)Innovation and Research Department, SNCF, 40 Avenue des Terroirs de France, 
75611 Paris Cedex 12, France. abdullah.oueslati@gmail.com

In this article, we consider a new regression model for counting processes under 
a proportional hazards assumption. This model is motivated by the need of 
understanding the evolution of the booking process of a railway company. The 
main novelty of the approach consists in assuming that the baseline hazard 
function is piecewise constant, with unknown times of jump (these times of jump 
are estimated from the data as model parameters). Hence, the parameters of the 
model can be separated into two different types: parameters that measure the 
influence of the covariates, and parameters from a multiple change-point model 
for the baseline. Cox's semiparametric regression can be seen as a limit case of 
our model. We develop an iterative procedure to estimate the different 
parameters, and a test procedure that allows to perform change-point detection 
in the baseline. Our technique is supported by simulation studies and a real 
data analysis, which show that our model can be a reasonable alternative to 
Cox's regression model, particularly in the presence of tied event times.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-012-9231-7
PMID: 23054240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Lifetime Data Anal. 2013 Jan;19(1):79-99. doi: 10.1007/s10985-012-9232-6.
Epub  2012 Oct 9.

Nonparametric estimation of the cumulative intensities in an interval censored 
competing risks model.

Frydman H(1), Liu J.

Author information:
(1)Leonard N Stern School of Business, 44 West 4th Street, Suite 8-55, New York, 
NY 10012-1126, USA. hfrydman@stern.nyu.edu

The nonparametric maximum likelihood estimation (NPMLE) of the distribution 
function from the interval censored (IC) data has been extensively studied in 
the extant literature. The NPMLE was also developed for the subdistribution 
functions in an IC competing risks model and in an illness-death model under 
various interval-censoring scenarios. But the important problem of estimation of 
the cumulative intensities (CIs) in the interval-censored models has not been 
considered previously. We develop the NPMLE of the CI in a simple alive/dead 
model and of the CIs in a competing risks model. Assuming that data are 
generated by a discrete and finite mixed case interval censoring mechanism we 
provide a discussion and the simulation study of the asymptotic properties of 
the NPMLEs of the CIs. In particular we show that they are asymptotically 
unbiased; in contrast the ad hoc estimators presented in extant literature are 
substantially biased. We illustrate our methods with the data from a prospective 
cohort study on the longevity of dental veneers.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-012-9232-6
PMID: 23054241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Int Urol Nephrol. 2013 Feb;45(1):107-11. doi: 10.1007/s11255-012-0305-y.
Epub  2012 Oct 6.

Primary adenocarcinoma of the urinary bladder: a single site analysis of 21 
cases.

Zhang H(1), Jiang H, Wu Z, Fang Z, Fan J, Ding Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Huashan Hospital, Fudan University, No. 12, WuLuMuQi 
Middle Road, Shanghai, China.

PURPOSE: To investigate whether there is a difference between urachal and 
non-urachal adenocarcinomas in terms of patient survival and to determine the 
significant prognostic factors.
METHODS: Thirty-four patients with histologically proven adenocarcinoma of the 
urinary bladder were treated at Huashan hospital between 1999 and 2010. 13 cases 
were excluded, including 12 patients with metastatic involvement from 
gastrointestinal or reproductive tracts and one without follow-up data after the 
initial consultation. Life tables, Kaplan-Meier, Cox regression analysis and 
log-rank test were used.
RESULTS: The difference between patients with urachal adenocarcinoma and 
patients with non-urachal adenocarcinoma was not statistically significant using 
the Kaplan-Meier estimates (P = 0.0763). Clinical stage had a significant 
influence on survival (P = 0.0320, Fig. 2). Patients with surgical resection 
including partial and radical cystectomy did not have a better prognosis (P = 
0.7992, Fig. 3). However, the difference is statistically significant between 
patients who received partial cystectomy and patients who received radical 
cystectomy (P = 0.0123, Fig. 4).
CONCLUSION: Survival of Patients with adenocarcinoma is correlated with clinical 
stage. Patients with urachal adenocarcinoma and non-urachal adenocarcinoma may 
have similar survival outcome. Tumor stage was a highly significant predictor of 
outcome (P = 0.0320). Surgical resection seems to be more important than 
chemotherapy in the cases of adenocarcinoma of the urinary bladder. We are in 
favor of radical cystectomy for all patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s11255-012-0305-y
PMID: 23054322 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Front Med. 2012 Dec;6(4):339-53. doi: 10.1007/s11684-012-0213-7. Epub 2012
Sep  28.

Basic consideration of research strategies for head and neck cancer.

Gao J(1), Panizza B, Johnson NW, Coman S, Clough AR.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Dentistry, James Cook University, Cairns, QLD 4878, 
Australia. jin.gao@jcu.edu.au

Head and neck cancer (HNC) consists of a group of malignancies affecting closely 
related anatomical regions of the upper aerodigestive tract (UADT), including 
the oral cavity, salivary glands, upper and lower jaw bones and facial skin; the 
nasal cavity, paranasal sinuses, pharynx, larynx and thyroid gland (although the 
latter is often excluded and considered as part of endocrine neoplasms). Of 
these, 90% of HNCs are histologically squamous cell carcinomas originating from 
the mucosal lining. These malignancies are strongly associated with certain 
environmental and life-style risk factors, principally tobacco in both smoked 
and smokeless forms, excessive alcohol consumption, diets poor in antioxidants 
and essential micronutrients, UV light, chemicals used in certain workplaces, 
and viruses, principally certain strains of human papillomavirus (HPV) and 
Epstein-Barr virus (EBV). These cancers are frequently aggressive in their 
biological behaviour with local invasion and metastasis to lymph nodes in the 
neck. Since most patients are already at late stages of disease at the time of 
diagnosis, the desirable practice of early diagnosis (first sign of the 
malignant lesion at an initial stage) and early treatment, a critical priority 
to save lives and retain quality of life, is difficult to implement. Thus, 
primary prevention has been set as a key goal. This article aims to reinforce 
the basic knowledge of aetiology, key risk factors related to the development of 
head and neck cancer, basic features of clinical appearance of this group of 
cancers, and strategies for prevention and early detection.We also suggest basic 
research strategies on the basis of current knowledge, which should ultimately 
lead to the improvement of clinical management.

DOI: 10.1007/s11684-012-0213-7
PMID: 23054500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2012 Oct 1;10(10):1284-309. doi: 
10.6004/jnccn.2012.0132.

Palliative care.

Levy MH(1), Adolph MD, Back A, Block S, Codada SN, Dalal S, Deshields TL, Dexter 
E, Dy SM, Knight SJ, Misra S, Ritchie CS, Sauer TM, Smith T, Spiegel D, Sutton 
L, Taylor RM, Temel J, Thomas J, Tickoo R, Urba SG, Von Roenn JH, Weems JL, 
Weinstein SM, Freedman-Cass DA, Bergman MA; NCCN (National Comprehensive Cancer 
Network).

Author information:
(1)Fox Chase Cancer Center.

These guidelines were developed and updated by an interdisciplinary group of 
experts based on clinical experience and available scientific evidence. The goal 
of these guidelines is to help patients with cancer experience the best quality 
of life possible throughout the illness trajectory by providing guidance for the 
primary oncology team for symptom screening, assessment, palliative care 
interventions, reassessment, and afterdeath care. Palliative care should be 
initiated by the primary oncology team and augmented by collaboration with an 
interdisciplinary team of palliative care experts.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2012.0132
PMID: 23054879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. J Gastrointest Surg. 2012 Dec;16(12):2212-9. doi: 10.1007/s11605-012-2039-7.
 Epub 2012 Sep 28.

Pancreatic volumetric assessment as a predictor of new-onset diabetes following 
distal pancreatectomy.

Shirakawa S(1), Matsumoto I, Toyama H, Shinzeki M, Ajiki T, Fukumoto T, Ku Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Kobe 
University Graduate School of Medicine, 7-5-2 Kusunoki-cho, Chuo-ku, Kobe, 
Hyogo, 650-0017, Japan.

INTRODUCTION: Pancreatogenic diabetes after pancreatectomy is of growing 
importance due to the increasing life expectancy of pancreatectomized patients. 
Although reduction of pancreatic volume is thought to affect glucose metabolism, 
a consistent relationship has yet to be determined. This study aimed to 
investigate functional consequences of distal pancreatectomy (DP) in 
preoperatively non-diabetic patients.
METHODS: This study included 61 non-diabetic patients who underwent DP. Clinical 
data were obtained, and the percent resected volume (PRV) of each pancreas was 
determined via multi-detector row computed tomography volumetry.
RESULTS: During the follow-up period (median 26 months), 22 patients (36 %) 
developed new-onset diabetes within a median onset time of 8 months (range 
0.5-42 months) postoperatively. The remaining 39 patients also showed impaired 
glucose metabolism. Multivariate analysis identified preoperative hemoglobin 
A1c ≥ 5.7 % (odds ratio 15.6, p = 0.001) and PRV > 44 % (odds ratio 11.3, 
p = 0.004) as independent risk factors for new-onset diabetes.
CONCLUSIONS: Key determinants of postoperative glycemic control include 
preoperative functional reserve of the endocrine pancreas and the volume 
reduction of pancreatic parenchyma. Our findings enable reliable preoperative 
evaluation of the risk of postoperative diabetes and appropriate postoperative 
surveillance, which is helpful for early intervention in high risk patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s11605-012-2039-7
PMCID: PMC3508270
PMID: 23054900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. J Gen Intern Med. 2013 Feb;28(2):292-8. doi: 10.1007/s11606-012-2227-x. Epub
 2012 Sep 28.

Individualizing cancer screening in older adults: a narrative review and 
framework for future research.

Eckstrom E(1), Feeny DH, Walter LC, Perdue LA, Whitlock EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of General Internal Medicine & Geriatrics, 
Oregon Health & Science University, 3181 SW Sam Jackson Park Rd, L475, Portland, 
OR 97239, USA. eckstrom@ohsu.edu

Older adults often have multiple chronic conditions that may decrease additional 
life expectancy. Research evaluating the benefits and harms of screening must 
include consideration of competing morbidities and patient heterogeneity (beyond 
age), potentially increased harms of screening, and patient preferences. Other 
areas in need of additional research include the lack of evidence for older 
adults on the harms of screening tests; the overdiagnosis of disease; the burden 
of disease labeling; the effects of inaccurate test results; the harms of 
disease treatment; and harms related to prioritization of healthcare (e.g., for 
a particular patient, lifestyle counseling may be more important than 
screening). Nontraditional outcomes, such as the effects on family caregivers, 
are also relevant. Studies comparing trajectories of quality-adjusted survival 
with and without screening to assess net benefit are typically lacking. There is 
little evidence on the preferences of older adults for deciding whether to be 
screened, the process of being screened, and the health states associated with 
being or not being screened. To enhance the quality and quantity of evidence, 
older adults need to be enrolled in screening trials and clinical studies. 
Measures of functional status and health-related quality of life (HRQL) need to 
be included in trials, registries, and cohort studies. This article addresses 
these challenges, and presents a framework for what research is needed to better 
inform screening decisions in older adults.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-012-2227-x
PMCID: PMC3614148
PMID: 23054920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Demography. 2013 Feb;50(1):261-83. doi: 10.1007/s13524-012-0145-5.

Coherent mortality forecasting: the product-ratio method with functional time 
series models.

Hyndman RJ(1), Booth H, Yasmeen F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Econometrics and Business Statistics, Monash University, 
Clayton, VIC 3800, Australia. rob.hyndman@monash.edu

When independence is assumed, forecasts of mortality for subpopulations are 
almost always divergent in the long term. We propose a method for coherent 
forecasting of mortality rates for two or more subpopulations, based on 
functional principal components models of simple and interpretable functions of 
rates. The product-ratio functional forecasting method models and forecasts the 
geometric mean of subpopulation rates and the ratio of subpopulation rates to 
product rates. Coherence is imposed by constraining the forecast ratio function 
through stationary time series models. The method is applied to sex-specific 
data for Sweden and state-specific data for Australia. Based on out-of-sample 
forecasts, the coherent forecasts are at least as accurate in overall terms as 
comparable independent forecasts, and forecast accuracy is homogenized across 
subpopulations.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-012-0145-5
PMID: 23055234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Front Microbiol. 2012 Sep 26;3:346. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2012.00346.
eCollection  2012.

Interaction of the pathogenic mold Aspergillus fumigatus with lung epithelial 
cells.

Osherov N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Microbiology and Immunology, Aspergillus and 
Antifungal Research Laboratory, Sackler School of Medicine, Tel-Aviv University 
Ramat-Aviv, Tel-Aviv, Israel.

Aspergillus fumigatus is an opportunistic environmental mold that can cause 
severe allergic responses in atopic individuals and poses a life-threatening 
risk for severely immunocompromised patients. Infection is caused by inhalation 
of fungal spores (conidia) into the lungs. The initial point of contact between 
the fungus and the host is a monolayer of lung epithelial cells. Understanding 
how these cells react to fungal contact is crucial to elucidating the 
pathobiology of Aspergillus-related disease states. The experimental systems, 
both in vitro and in vivo, used to study these interactions, are described. 
Distinction is made between bronchial and alveolar epithelial cells. The 
experimental findings suggest that lung epithelial cells are more than just 
"innocent bystanders" or a purely physical barrier against infection. They can 
be better described as an active extension of our innate immune system, 
operating as a surveillance mechanism that can specifically identify fungal 
spores and activate an offensive response to block infection. This response 
includes the internalization of adherent conidia and the release of cytokines, 
antimicrobial peptides, and reactive oxygen species. In the case of allergy, 
lung epithelial cells can dampen an over-reactive immune response by releasing 
anti-inflammatory compounds such as kinurenine. This review summarizes our 
current knowledge regarding the interaction of A. fumigatus with lung epithelial 
cells. A better understanding of the interactions between A. fumigatus and lung 
epithelial cells has therapeutic implications, as stimulation or inhibition of 
the epithelial response may alter disease outcome.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2012.00346
PMCID: PMC3458433
PMID: 23055997


391. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e47373. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047373. Epub 2012
Oct 9.

Cost effectiveness of different treatment strategies in the treatment of 
patients with moderate to severe rheumatoid arthritis in china.

Wu B(1), Wilson A, Wang FF, Wang SL, Wallace DJ, Weisman MH, Lu LJ.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Outcomes and Economics Group, Department of Pharmacy, Renji 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, People's Republic of 
China.

BACKGROUND: To analyse the cost-effectiveness of traditional disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drugs (tDMARDs) compared to biological therapies from the 
perspective of Chinese society.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: A mathematical model was developed by 
incorporating the clinical trial data and Chinese unit costs and treatment 
sequences from a lifetime perspective. Hypothetical cohorts with moderate to 
severe RA were simulated. The primary outcome measure-quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs)-was derived from disease severity (HAQ scores). Primary analysis 
included drug costs, monitoring costs, and other costs. Probabilistic and 
one-way sensitivity analyses were performed. Treatment sequences that included 
TNF antagonists and rituximab produced a greater number of QALYs than tDMARDs 
alone or TNF antagonists plus DMARDs. In comparison with tDMARDs, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for etanercept, infliximab, and 
adalimumab without rituximab were $77,357.7, $26,562.4 and $57,838.4 per QALY 
and $66,422.9, $28,780.6 and $50,937.6 per QALY, for etanercept, infliximab, and 
adalimumab with rituximab. No biotherapy was cost-effective under the 
willingness to pay threshold when the threshold was 3 times the per capita GDP 
of China. When 3 times the per capita GDP of Shanghai used as the threshold, 
infliximab and rituximab could yield nearly 90% cost-effective simulations in 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: tDMARD was the most cost-effective option in the 
Chinese healthcare setting. In some relatively developed regions in China, 
infliximab and rituximab may be a favorable cost-effective alternative for 
