Turkova A(1), Webb RH, Lyall H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Infectious Diseases, St Mary's Hospital, Imperial 
College NHS Trust, London, UK.

Over the last decade there have been dramatic changes in the management of 
pediatric HIV infection. Whilst observational studies and several randomized 
control trials (RCTs) have addressed some questions about when to start 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) in children and what antiretrovirals to start, many 
others remain unanswered. In infants, early initiation of ART greatly reduces 
mortality and disease progression. Treatment guidelines now recommend ART in all 
infants younger than 1 or 2 years of age depending on geographical setting. In 
children >1 year of age, US, European (Paediatric European Network for Treatment 
of AIDS; PENTA) and WHO guidelines differ and debate is ongoing. Recent data 
from an RCT in Thailand in children with moderate immune suppression indicate 
that it is safe to monitor asymptomatic children closely without initiating ART, 
although earlier treatment was associated with improved growth. Untreated HIV 
progression in children aged over 5 years is similar to that in adults, and 
traditionally adult treatment thresholds are applied. Recent adult observational 
and modeling studies showed a survival advantage and reduction of age-associated 
complications with early treatment. The current US guidelines have lowered CD4+ 
cell count thresholds for ART initiation for children aged >5 years to 
500 cells/mm3. Co-infections influence the choice of drugs and the timing of 
starting ART. Drug interactions, overlapping toxicities and adherence problems 
secondary to increased pill burden are important issues. Rapid changes in the 
pharmacokinetics of antiretrovirals in the first years of life, limited 
pharmacokinetic data in children and genetic variation in metabolism of many 
antiretrovirals make correct dosing difficult. Adherence should always be 
addressed prior to starting ART or switching regimens. The initial ART regimen 
depends on previous exposure, including perinatal administration for prevention 
of mother to child transmission (PMTCT), adherence, co-infections, drug 
availability and licensing. A European cohort study in infants indicated that 
treatment with four drugs produced superior virologic suppression and immune 
recovery. Protease inhibitor (PI)-based ART has the advantage of a high barrier 
to viral resistance. A recent RCT conducted in several African countries showed 
PI-based ART to be advantageous in children aged <3 years compared with 
nevirapine-based ART irrespective of previous nevirapine exposure. Another trial 
in older children from resource rich settings showed both regimens were equally 
effective. Treatment interruption remains a controversial issue in children, but 
one study in Europe demonstrated no short-term detrimental effects. ART in 
children is a rapidly evolving area with many new antiretrovirals being 
developed and undergoing trials. The aim of ART has shifted from avoiding 
mortality and morbidity to achieving a normal life expectancy and quality of 
life, minimizing toxicities and preventing early cancers and age-related 
illnesses.

DOI: 10.2165/11599640-000000000-00000
PMID: 23013459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2012 Oct;28(4):382-9. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462312000517. Epub 2012 Sep 26.

Cost-effectiveness of oral triptans for acute migraine: mixed treatment 
comparison.

Asseburg C(1), Peura P, Oksanen T, Turunen J, Purmonen T, Martikainen J.

Author information:
(1)ESiOR Oy; School of Pharmacy, University of Eastern Finland, Finland. 
christian.asseburg@esior.fi

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of triptans in the treatment of migraine has 
not been assessed since generic sumatriptan entered the Finnish market in 2008.
METHODS: Using systematic review and mixed treatment comparison, the 
effectiveness of triptans was estimated with regard to 2-hour response, 2-hour 
pain-free, recurrence, and any adverse event, using published clinical data. 
Direct and indirect costs (2010 EUR, societal perspective) and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) were evaluated over one acute migraine attack using a 
decision-tree model.
RESULTS: The meta-analysis combined data from fifty-six publications. The 
highest probability of achieving the primary outcome, "sustained pain-free, no 
adverse event" (SNAE), was estimated for eletriptan 40 mg (20.9 percent). 
Sumatriptan 100 mg was the treatment with lowest estimated costs (€20.86), and 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of eletriptan 40 mg compared with 
sumatriptan 100 mg was €43.65 per SNAE gained (€19,659 per QALY gained).
CONCLUSION: Depending on the decision-maker's willingness-to-pay threshold, 
either sumatriptan 100 mg or eletriptan 40 mg is likely to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462312000517
PMID: 23013610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. BMJ. 2012 Sep 25;345:e6456. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e6456.

The key to longevity.

Kamerow D(1).

Author information:
(1)RTI International. dkamerow@rti.org

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e6456
PMID: 23014907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Int J Cancer. 2013 May 1;132(9):2157-63. doi: 10.1002/ijc.27871. Epub 2012
Nov  5.

Increasing prevalence of comorbidity in patients with colorectal cancer in the 
South of the Netherlands 1995-2010.

van Leersum NJ(1), Janssen-Heijnen ML, Wouters MW, Rutten HJ, Coebergh JW, 
Tollenaar RA, Lemmens VE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Centre, Leiden, The 
Netherlands. n.j.van_leersum@lumc.nl

Comorbidity has large impact on colorectal cancer (CRC) treatment and outcomes 
and may increase as the population ages. We aimed to evaluate the prevalence and 
time trends of comorbid diseases in patients with CRC from 1995 to 2010. The 
Eindhoven Cancer Registry registers comorbidity in all patients with primary CRC 
in the South of the Netherlands. We analyzed the prevalence of serious comorbid 
diseases in four time frames from 1995 to 2010. Thereby, we addressed its 
association with age, gender and socio-economic status (SES). The prevalence of 
comorbidity was registered in 27,339 patients with primary CRC. During the study 
period, the prevalence of comorbidity increased from 47% to 62%, multimorbidity 
increased from 20% to 37%. Hypertension and cardiovascular diseases were most 
prevalent and increased largely over time (respectively 16-29% and 12-24%). 
Pulmonary diseases increased in women, but remained stable in men. Average age 
at diagnosis increased from 68.3 to 69.5 years (p = 0.004). A low SES and male 
gender were associated with a higher risk of comorbidity (not changing over 
time). This study indicates that comorbidity among patients with CRC is common, 
especially in males and patients with a low SES. The prevalence of comorbidity 
increased from 1995 to 2010, in particular in presumably nutritional diseases. 
Ageing, increased life expectancy and life style changes may contribute to more 
comorbid diseases. Also, improved awareness among health care providers on the 
importance of comorbidity may have resulted in better registration. The 
increasing burden of comorbidity in patients with CRC emphasizes the need for 
more focus on individualized medicine.

Copyright © 2012 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.27871
PMID: 23015513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Oncologist. 2012;17 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):1-3. doi:
10.1634/theoncologist.2012-S1-01.

Optimizing the management of prostate cancer in senior adults: call to action.

Fitzpatrick JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mater Misericordiae Hospital and University College 
Dublin, Dublin 4, Ireland. jfitzpatrick@irishcancer.ie

This article briefly reviews the current state of therapy for older patients 
with prostate cancer and provides a call-to-action highlighting the need for an 
improved global standard of care in this patient population.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2012-S1-01
PMCID: PMC3593778
PMID: 23015678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: John M. Fitzpatrick: Sanofi, 
Janssen, Astellas, Orion, Millennium, Takeda, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, 
Hoffman-la-Roche (C/A).


287. Oncologist. 2012;17 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):4-8. doi:
10.1634/theoncologist.2012-S1-04.

Is radical prostatectomy a useful therapeutic option for high-risk prostate 
cancer in older men?

Graefen M(1), Schlomm T.

Author information:
(1)Martini Clinic, Prostate Cancer Centre, University Hospital 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany. graefen@uke.de

Prostate cancer affects a high proportion of men over 70 years of age, who are 
likely to have high-risk disease and a substantial risk of 
prostate-cancer-specific death. With life expectancy increasing worldwide, the 
burden of prostate cancer is also expected to rise. Thus, effective management 
of this high-risk senior patient group is increasingly important. Radical 
prostatectomy can increase survival and decrease the risk of metastatic 
progression. Postsurgery complications are affected more by comorbidity than by 
age. In patients without comorbidities, surgery is associated with a low risk of 
mortality. Advanced age may increase the likelihood of incontinence following 
radical prostatectomy, but patients with higher risk disease are no more likely 
to experience this complication compared with lower risk groups. Treatment 
decisions should be made after considering the health status and life expectancy 
of the individual patient. If eligible, the patient should be offered radical 
prostatectomy as a potentially curative treatment, without a rigid restriction 
to a certain chronological age.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2012-S1-04
PMCID: PMC3593781
PMID: 23015679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Markus Graefen: Amgen (C/A); Ipsen, 
Takeda, GlaxoSmithKline (H). The other author indicated no financial 
relationships.


288. Oncologist. 2012;17 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):16-22. doi: 
10.1634/theoncologist.2012-S1-16.

Management of advanced prostate cancer in senior adults: the new landscape.

Aapro MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Multidisciplinary Oncology Institute, Genolier, Switzerland. 
maapro@genolier.net

Erratum in
    Oncologist. 2015 Feb;20(2):230.

The landscape of treatment for advanced prostate cancer is continually evolving 
as new therapies are developed and guidelines are constantly updated. However, 
the management of older men with advanced disease is not optimal. Many men are 
denied chemotherapy based on their chronological age, not their health status. 
Androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT) remains the mainstay of first-line treatment 
of advanced disease. Once the disease becomes resistant to castration, 
docetaxel-based chemotherapy is the regulatory-approved standard of care, 
irrespective of age. The place of weekly docetaxel in patients with poor 
performance status and signs of frailty has to be further evaluated in clinical 
studies. New treatments are now available, or on the horizon, for disease that 
progresses during or after docetaxel therapy. Cabazitaxel and abiraterone have 
been shown to prolong survival, irrespective of age, and are already in clinical 
use having received regulatory approval. The optimal sequence for these two 
agents is still unknown, although there is some indication that in patients 
predicted to be poor responders to abiraterone (high Gleason score, progression 
during docetaxel therapy, rapid progression to castrate-resistant prostate 
cancer with ADT) cabazitaxel should be the preferred choice. Further advances 
are being investigated, with promising data reported from phase III trials.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2012-S1-16
PMCID: PMC3593779
PMID: 23015681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Matti Aapro: Abraxis, Amgen, 
Bristol-Myers Squibb, Celgene, GlaxoSmithKline, Helsinn, Novartis, Merck, Merck 
Serono, Pfizer, Pierre Fabre, Roc (C/A); Amgen, Bayer Schering, Cephalon, 
Ferring, GlaxoSmithKline, Helsinn, Hospira, Ipsen, Jn (H).


289. Oncologist. 2012;17 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):31-5. doi: 
10.1634/theoncologist.2012-S1-31.

A comment on the International Society of Geriatric Oncology guidelines: 
evidence-based advice for the clinical setting.

Fitzpatrick JM(1), Graefen M, Payne HA, Scotté F, Aapro MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Mater Misericordiae Hospital and University College 
Dublin, Irish Cancer Society, 43/45 Northumberland Road, Dublin 4, Ireland. 
jfitzpatrick@irishcancer.ie

Largely a disease of older men, prostate cancer is likely to become a growing 
burden in the developed world as the population ages and overall life expectancy 
increases. Furthermore, prostate cancer management in older men is not optimal, 
reflecting the lack of training dedicated to senior adults in fellowship 
programs and the lack of specific guidelines to manage senior adults. The 
International Society of Geriatric Oncology (SIOG) convened a multidisciplinary 
Prostate Cancer Working Group to review the evidence base and provide advice on 
the management of the disease in senior age groups. The Working Group reported 
that advancing age, by itself, is not a reliable guide to treatment decision 
making for men with either localized or advanced prostate cancer. Instead, the 
SIOG guidelines advise health care teams to assess the patient's underlying 
health status, which is largely dictated by associated comorbid conditions, but 
also by dependency in activities of daily living and nutritional status, and to 
use the findings to categorize the individual into one of four groups: healthy, 
vulnerable, frail, or terminally ill. The guidelines recommend that a patient 
categorized as healthy or vulnerable (i.e., with reversible problems following 
geriatric intervention) should receive the same approach to treatment as a 
younger patient. Frail patients should be managed using adapted treatment 
strategies, and the terminally ill should receive symptomatic/palliative care 
only. The guidelines may have ongoing relevance as the treatment options for 
prostate cancer expand.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2012-S1-31
PMCID: PMC3593782
PMID: 23015683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: John M. Fitzpatrick: Sanofi, 
Janssen, Astellas, Orion, Millennium, Takeda, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, 
Hoffman-la-Roche (C/A); Markus Graefen: Amgen (C/A); Ipsen, Takeda, 
GlaxoSmithKline (H); Heather A. Payne: Astra Zeneca, Janssen, Johnson and 
Johnson, Sanofi, Takeda, Ipsen, GlaxoSmithKline, Ferring, Novartis (C/A); Astra 
Zeneca, Janssen, Johnson and Johnson, Sanofi, Takeda, Ipsen, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Ferring, Novartis (H); Matti S. Aapro: Abraxis, Amgen, Bristol-Myers Squibb, 
Celgene, GlaxoSmithKline, Helsinn, Novartis, Merck, Merck Serono, Pfizer, Pierre 
Fabre, Roc (C/A); Amgen, Bayer Schering, Cephalon, Ferring, GlaxoSmithKline, 
Helsinn, Hospira, Ipsen, JN (H). The other author indicated no financial 
relationships.


290. Sports Health. 2011 Mar;3(2):182-9. doi: 10.1177/1941738111398583.

Effect of therapeutic modalities on patients with patellofemoral pain syndrome: 
a systematic review.

Lake DA(1), Wofford NH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Armstrong Atlantic State University, 
Savannah, Georgia.

CONTEXT: Patellofemoral pain syndrome (PFPS) is a common orthopaedic condition 
for which operative and nonoperative treatments have been used. Therapeutic 
modalities have been recommended for the treatment of patients with 
PFPS-including cold, ultrasound, phonophoresis, iontophoresis, neuromuscular 
electrical stimulation, electrical stimulation for pain control, 
electromyographic biofeedback, and laser.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effectiveness of therapeutic modalities for the 
treatment of patients with PFPS.
DATA SOURCES: In May and August 2010, Medline was searched using the following 
databases: PubMed, CINAHL, Web of Science Citation Index, Science Direct, 
ProQuest Nursing & Allied Health, and Your Journals@OVID.
STUDY SELECTION: Selected studies were randomized controlled trials that used a 
therapeutic modality to treat patients with PFPS. The review included articles 
with all outcome measures relevant for the PFPS patient: knee extension and 
flexion strength (isokinetic and isometric), patellofemoral pain assessment 
during activities of daily life, functional tests (eg, squats), Kujala 
patellofemoral score, and electromyographic recording from knee flexors and 
extensors and quadriceps femoris cross-sectional areas.
DATA EXTRACTION: Authors conducted independent quality appraisals of studies 
using the PEDro Scale and a system designed for analysis of studies on 
interventions for patellofemoral pain.
RESULTS: TWELVE STUDIES MET CRITERIA: 1 on the effects of cold and ultrasound 
together, ice alone, iontophoresis, and phonophoresis; 3, neuromuscular 
electrical stimulation; 4, electromyographic biofeedback; 3, electrical 
stimulation for control of pain; and 1, laser.
DISCUSSION: Most studies were of low to moderate quality. Some reported that 
therapeutic modalities, when combined with other treatments, may be of some 
benefit for pain management or other symptoms. There was no consistent evidence 
of any beneficial effect when a therapeutic modality was used alone. Studies did 
not consistently provide added benefit to conventional physical therapy in the 
treatment of PFPS.
CONCLUSIONS: None of the therapeutic modalities reviewed has sound scientific 
justification for the treatment of PFPS when used alone.

DOI: 10.1177/1941738111398583
PMCID: PMC3445135
PMID: 23016007

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest declared.


291. J Med Econ. 2012;15 Suppl 1:26-34. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.734884. Epub
2012  Oct 23.

The cost-effectiveness of paliperidone extended release in Spain.

Treur M(1), Baca E, Bobes J, Cañas F, Salvador L, Gonzalez B, Heeg B.

Author information:
(1)Pharmerit BV, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. mtreur@pharmerit.com

BACKGROUND: Paliperidone Extended Release OROS (ER) is a new atypical 
antipsychotic for the treatment of schizophrenia. The objective is, based on a 
previously published model, to analyze the clinical and economic effects of 
Paliperidone ER in a Spanish setting compared to olanzapine oral and 
aripiprazole.
METHODS: An existing discrete event simulation model was adapted to reflect the 
treatment of schizophrenia in Spain in terms of costs, resource use, and 
treatment patterns. Inputs for the model were derived from clinical trial data, 
literature research, database analysis and interviews with local clinical 
experts. The time horizon is 5 years and Spanish discount rate was applied. 
Outputs include direct medical costs and Quality Adjusted Life-Years (QALYs). 
Extensive sensitivity analyses were carried out to assess the robustness of the 
results, using ordinary least squares analysis and cost-effectiveness scatter 
plots.
RESULTS: The results show that the mean incremental QALYs (95% CI) compared to 
olanzpine is 0.033 [-0.143, 0.304] and compared to aripiprazole 0.029 [-0.107, 
0.300]. The corresponding mean incremental costs and corresponding confidence 
intervals are -€1425 [-€10,247, €3084] and -€759 [-€10,479, €3404], 
respectively. The probability that paliperidone ER is cost-saving and health 
gaining compared to olanzapine and aripiprazole is 76% and 72%, respectively. 
Paliperidone ER was estimated to have 80% and 81% probability of being 
cost-effective compared to olanzapine at a willingness to pay of €20,000 and 
€30,000 and 73% and 74% compared to aripiprazole, respectively.
LIMITATIONS: Some of the modeled inter-relationships had to be based on expert 
opinion due to a lack of information. Also, foreign sources for the disutility 
of adverse events had been used due to a lack of Spanish data. Prolactin-related 
side-effects, indirect costs, and potential compliance advantages of 
paliperidone ER were not considered. It is unlikely that these limitations 
affected the conclusions.
CONCLUSION: Based on differences in drug acquisition costs, side-effects, and 
risk of relapse, the model predicts that, in the Spanish healthcare setting, 
paliperidone ER dominates oral olanzapine and aripiprazole, with a probability 
of 76% and 72%, respectively.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2012.734884
PMID: 23016569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Suicide Life Threat Behav. 2012 Dec;42(6):654-71. doi: 
10.1111/j.1943-278X.2012.00120.x. Epub 2012 Sep 28.

Music and suicidality: a quantitative review and extension.

Stack S(1), Lester D, Rosenberg JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry & Criminology, Wayne State University, Detroit, MI 
48202, USA. steven_stack@hotmail.com

This article provides the first quantitative review of the literature on music 
and suicidality. Multivariate logistic regression techniques are applied to 90 
findings from 21 studies. Investigations employing ecological data on suicide 
completions are 19.2 times more apt than other studies to report a link between 
music and suicide. More recent and studies with large samples are also more apt 
than their counterparts to report significant results. Further, none of the 
studies based on experimental research designs found a link between music and 
suicide ideation, prompting us to do a brief content analysis of 24 suicide 
songs versus 24 nonsuicide songs from the same album. Using Linguistic Inquiry 
and Word Count software, we found no difference in the content of the suicide 
songs and controls, including the percentage of sad words, negative affect, and 
mentions of death, thus providing an explanation for nonfindings from 
experimental research. In summary, ecologically based (which capture at-risk 
persons not in typical school-based samples) and more recent investigations 
(which have used superior or new methodologies) tend to demonstrate a linkage 
between music and suicidality. Experimental research is needed with a control 
group of songs from an alternative genre with low suicidogenic content.

© 2012 The American Association of Suicidology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1943-278X.2012.00120.x
PMID: 23016988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2013 Jan;45(1):56-62. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2011.12.288. Epub 2012 Sep 24.

Prognostic factors of survival in patients with advanced cancer admitted to home 
care.

Mercadante S(1), Valle A, Porzio G, Aielli F, Adile C, Casuccio A; Home 
Care–Italy Group.

Author information:
(1)Pain Relief and Supportive Care Unit, La Maddalena Cancer Center, Palermo, 
Italy. terapiadeldolore@lamaddalenanet.it

CONTEXT: Data regarding prognostication of life expectancy in patients with 
advanced cancer are of paramount importance to patients, families, and 
clinicians. However, data regarding patients followed at home are lacking.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the correlation between 
various factors recorded at the beginning of home care assistance and survival.
METHODS: A sample of consecutive patients admitted to two home care programs was 
surveyed. A preliminary consensus was achieved as to the possible variables easy 
to be recorded at home. These included age at the time of home care admission, 
gender, residence, marital status, primary cancer diagnosis, Karnofsky 
Performance Status (KPS) score, measures of systolic blood pressure and heart 
rate, cyanosis, use of oxygen, and body temperature. The Edmonton Symptom 
Assessment System was used to record the intensity of each symptom. Patients 
were divided into two groups: patients with a survival of less than 10 days 
(short survival) and patients with a survival of 10 days or more (medium-long 
survival).
RESULTS: Three hundred seventy-four consecutive patients admitted to home care 
programs were surveyed, of which 187 were male. The mean±SD age was 72.1±12.7 
years. The mean survival was 56.2±65 days. Mean survival was 71.5±67 days (287 
patients) and 5.6±2.7 days (87 patients) in the short and medium-long survival 
groups, respectively. No association between type of tumor and survival was 
observed (P=0.162). Univariate logistic regression analysis revealed that male 
gender (P=0.020), older age (P=0.012), lower KPS scores (P<0.0005), systolic 
blood pressure less than 100 mmHg (P=0.003), heart rate greater than 100 beats 
per minute (P=0.0006), delirium (P=0.004), the use of oxygen (P=0.002), 
intensity of fatigue (P=0.006), drowsiness (P<0.0005), anorexia (P<0.0005), 
dyspnea (P<0.0005), poor sense of well-being (P<0.0005), and distress score 
(P<0.0005) were associated with a survival of less than 10 days. Marital status, 
residence, cognitive function, fever, pain, depression, and anxiety were not 
found to be significantly correlated with survival. In a multiple logistic 
regression model, low systolic blood pressure and high heart rate, gender, 
delirium, use of oxygen, KPS score, drowsiness, anorexia, and dyspnea were 
significantly correlated with a shorter survival.
CONCLUSION: Low systolic blood pressure and high heart rate, male gender, poor 
KPS score, anorexia, and dyspnea were correlated with a shorter survival. 
Moreover, patients with low systolic blood pressure and high heart rate, male 
gender, poor KPS score, and greater intensity of anorexia and dyspnea are more 
likely to die within one week. The combination of physical symptoms from the 
Edmonton Symptom Assessment System and other parameters included in this study, 
which are simple to assess and are repeatable at home, should be further 
explored in future studies to provide a simple tool for use with patients with 
advanced cancer admitted to a home care program.

Copyright © 2013 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2011.12.288
PMID: 23017625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Soc Sci Res. 2012 Jan;41(1):74-91. doi: 10.1016/j.ssresearch.2011.07.006.
Epub  2011 Aug 3.

Imprisonment and (inequality in) population health.

Wildeman C(1).

Author information:
(1)Yale University, Department of Sociology, PO Box 208265, New Haven, CT 06520, 
United States.

This article extends research on the consequences of mass imprisonment and the 
factors shaping population health and health inequalities by considering the 
associations between imprisonment and population health-measured as life 
expectancy at birth and the infant mortality rate-and black-white differences in 
population health using state-level panel data from the United States (N=669), 
1980-2004. Results show that imprisonment is significantly associated with 
poorer population health, though associations between imprisonment and infant 
mortality and female life expectancy are somewhat more consistently 
statistically significant than are associations with male life expectancy, and 
associations are more pronounced and statistically significant for blacks than 
they are for whites. Results also show, however, that increases in imprisonment 
are associated with decreases in the mortality rates of young black men. Thus, 
though imprisonment tends to be associated with higher mortality risk and 
greater black-white differences in mortality, it may, in the short-run, have 
some paradoxical mortality benefits for young black men.

Copyright © 2011 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ssresearch.2011.07.006
PMID: 23017698


295. Cancer Lett. 2013 Jul 1;334(2):176-87. doi: 10.1016/j.canlet.2012.09.012.
Epub  2012 Sep 24.

Nanophotosensitizers toward advanced photodynamic therapy of Cancer.

Lim CK(1), Heo J, Shin S, Jeong K, Seo YH, Jang WD, Park CR, Park SY, Kim S, 
Kwon IC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Theragnosis, Korea Institute of Science and Technology, 39-1 
Hawolgok-dong, Seongbuk-gu, Seoul 136-791, Republic of Korea.

Photodynamic therapy (PDT) is a non-invasive treatment modality for selective 
destruction of cancer and other diseases and involves the colocalization of 
light, oxygen, and a photosensitizer (PS) to achieve photocytotoxicity. Although 
this therapeutic method has considerably improved the quality of life and life 
expectancy of cancer patients, further advances in selectivity and therapeutic 
efficacy are required to overcome numerous side effects related to classical 
PDT. The application of nanoscale photosensitizers (NPSs) comprising molecular 
PSs and nanocarriers with or without other biological/photophysical functions is 
a promising approach for improving PDT. In this review, we focus on four 
nanomedical approaches for advanced PDT: (1) nanocarriers for targeted delivery 
of PS, (2) introduction of active targeting moieties for disease-specific PDT, 
(3) stimulus-responsive NPSs for selective PDT, and (4) photophysical 
improvements in NPS for enhanced PDT efficacy.
HIGHLIGHTS: ► Conservation of normal tissues demands non-invasive therapeutic 
methods. ► PDT is a light-activated, non-invasive modality for selective 
destruction of cancers.► Success of PDT requires further advances to overcome 
the limitations of classical PDT. ►Nanophotosensitizers help improve target 
selectivity and therapeutic efficacy of PDT.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canlet.2012.09.012
PMID: 23017942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Drugs Aging. 2012 Sep;29(9):717-31. doi: 10.1007/s40266-012-0006-3.

Nutraceuticals in the management of osteoarthritis : a critical review.

Ragle RL(1), Sawitzke AD.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, 84132, USA.

Osteoarthritis (OA) is a chronic, highly prevalent and disabling disease that is 
expected to increase in prevalence secondary to longer life expectancy and a 
disproportionately aging population. Treatment of OA is only marginally 
effective and has been focused primarily on symptom control using weight loss, 
physical therapy, nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs), acetaminophen, 
intra-articular steroids or viscosupplementation, topical NSAIDs and analgesics, 
diacerein (an oral interleukin-1β inhibitor) and finally joint replacement 
surgery. The use of nutraceuticals in the treatment of OA is common, and 
scientific studies examining the effects of nutraceuticals on the pathogenesis 
and treatment of OA are increasing. This review examines the efficacy and safety 
of select nutraceuticals for the treatment of OA. The reviewed nutraceuticals 
include glucosamine, chondroitin, collagen hydrolysates (CHs) and 
avocado-soybean unsaponifiables (ASUs). There have been several clinical trials 
examining the efficacy of these products and the results demonstrate significant 
heterogeneity. Significant improvements in pain, function and structural 
outcomes have been shown for some of the treatment arms or subgroups of 
patients, but the effects are not consistent across the studies. Glucosamine, 
chondroitin and the two in combination have been the most extensively studied. 
Significant improvement in pain and functional indices and a decrease in the 
loss of joint space width were demonstrated in some but not all studies. CHs 
showed significant improvement in pain and functional indices for several 
subgroups of patients, but these findings were not pervasive amongst the 
treatment arms. ASU has demonstrated positive results with respect to decreased 
NSAID use in several studies and functional and pain end points in most of the 
reviewed studies; however, in the two studies examining structural end points, 
the results were mixed. The safety of these nutraceuticals has been demonstrated 
across all of the reviewed trials, and there were no significant issues with 
tolerance. Given the good safety profile of nutraceuticals, the marginal 
efficacy of conventional treatments, the high prevalence and rate of disability 
from OA and the possible benefit of nutraceuticals to patients with OA, use of 
nutraceuticals in select patients is appropriate. An overall recommendation to 
use nutraceuticals in the treatment of all patients with OA is not strongly 
supported by the available data. Future studies should focus on standardization 
of symptomatic and structural outcome measures, be of longer duration and pay 
careful attention to the content of the investigational product.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-012-0006-3
PMID: 23018608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. East Asian Arch Psychiatry. 2012 Sep;22(3):126-33.

Schizophrenia and suicide.

Balhara YP(1), Verma R.

Author information:
(1)National Drug Dependence Treatment Centre, All India Institute of Medical 
Sciences, New Delhi, India.

OBJECTIVE: Schizophrenia is characterised by distorted thinking and perception 
and tends to run a chronic course. The World Health Organization reported that 
suicide accounts for almost 2% of the world's deaths. There is a close 
relationship between schizophrenia and suicide. Patients with schizophrenia 
experience personal distress and socio-occupational dysfunction and reduced life 
expectancy as a group. The current article presents a review of suicide in 
schizophrenia.
DATA SOURCES: The literature search included MEDLINE, CINHAL, EMBASE, and 
Cochrane Controlled Trials Register databases.
STUDY SELECTION: Search terms used included 'schizophrenia', 'suicide', 
'positive symptoms', 'negative symptoms', 'self-harm', 'anti-psychotics', 'risk 
factors' in different combinations.
DATA EXTRACTION: We included epidemiological findings, socio-demographical 
variables, symptom profiles, biological underpinnings, risk factors, and 
management issues. No publication year limits were applied but the search was 
restricted to articles in English. The abstracts of articles retrieved in the 
search were manually scanned.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Male gender and being unmarried are associated with an increased 
risk of suicide among individuals with schizophrenia. The presence of depression 
and depressive features is associated with an increased risk of suicidality. An 
association between insight into the illness, a consequent feeling of 
hopelessness, and increased risk of suicide has also been a consistent finding. 
In contrast the role of schizophrenia subtype in suicidal risk remains 
controversial.
CONCLUSIONS: To date, the impact of specific pharmacotherapeutic agents and 
non-pharmacological interventions on the suicidal behaviour of individuals with 
schizophrenia is also yet to be fully explored by robust research.

PMID: 23019287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 2012 Sep;62(9):989-91. doi: 
10.1080/10962247.2012.697445.

A reanalysis of fine particulate matter air pollution versus life expectancy in 
the United States.

Krstić G(1).

Author information:
(1)Fraser Health, Environmental Health Services, New Westminster, British 
Columbia, Canada. Goran.Krstic@fraserhealth.ca

Republished in
    J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 2013 Feb;63(2):133-5.

A reduction in population exposure to fine particulate matter air pollution 
(PM2.5) has been associated with improvements in life expectancy. This article 
presents a reanalysis of this relationship and comments on the results from a 
study on the reduction of ambient air PM2.5 concentrations versus life 
expectancy in metropolitan areas of the United States. The results of the 
reanalysis show that the statistical significance of the correlation is lost 
after removing one of the metropolitan areas from the regression analysis, 
suggesting that the results may not be suitable for a meaningful and reliable 
inference.
IMPLICATIONS: The observed loss of statistical significance in the correlation 
between the reduction of ambient air PM2.5 concentrations and life expectancy in 
metropolitan areas of the United States, after removing one of the metropolitan 
areas from the regression analysis, may raise concern for the policymakers in 
decisions regarding further reductions in permitted levels of air pollution 
emissions.

DOI: 10.1080/10962247.2012.697445
PMID: 23019812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Cancer Invest. 2012 Nov;30(9):637-41. doi: 10.3109/07357907.2012.726387.
Epub  2012 Sep 28.

The effect of metastatic site and decade of diagnosis on the individual burden 
of metastatic melanoma: contemporary estimates of average years of life lost.

Salama AK(1), Rosa Nd, Scheri RP, Herndon JE, Tyler DS, Marcello J, Pruitt SK, 
Abernethy AP.

Author information:
(1)Duke Comprehensive Cancer Center, Duke University Medical Center (DUMC), 
Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Metastatic melanoma (MM) is a leading cause of years of life lost 
due to malignancy. This study aimed to identify the average years of life lost 
(AYLL) in MM patients.
METHODS: MM patients were identified from a prospectively maintained database, 
and a linear model predicting AYLL was developed.
RESULTS: Between 1970 and 1999, 4,774 patients diagnosed with MM died. The AYLL 
was 23.2 years. AYLL remained stable across three decades.
CONCLUSIONS: AYLL for MM is greater than 20 years, and has not improved. This 
burden underscores the need for continued research and access to funding for 
this disease.

DOI: 10.3109/07357907.2012.726387
PMID: 23020583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Surg Oncol Clin N Am. 2012 Oct;21(4):635-43. doi: 10.1016/j.soc.2012.07.010.
 Epub 2012 Sep 1.

Peritoneal mesothelioma: current status and future directions.

Chua TC(1), Chong CH, Morris DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of New South Wales, St George Hospital, 
Sydney, NSW 2217, Australia. terence.chua@unsw.edu.au

Peritoneal mesothelioma is a rare malignancy where life expectancy with systemic 
chemotherapy remains poor. Most patients with this disease are diagnosed late 
with extensive peritoneal disease burden leading to nausea, pain, and abdominal 
distention as a result of ascites and a partial bowel obstruction. A newly 
proposed staging system comprising elements of the tumor burden measured by the 
peritoneal cancer index, abdominal nodal status, and extra-abdominal metastases 
has been demonstrated to reliably stratify patient outcomes based on staging 
subgroups after cytoreductive surgery and hyperthermic intraperitoneal 
chemotherapy. This new staging system may form the basis of selecting patients 
for radical surgery and improve survival outcomes.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soc.2012.07.010
PMID: 23021721 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Prion. 2013 Jan-Feb;7(1):42-6. doi: 10.4161/pri.22380. Epub 2012 Sep 28.

Peptidylarginine deiminase and protein citrullination in prion diseases: strong 
evidence of neurodegeneration.

Jang B(1), Ishigami A, Maruyama N, Carp RI, Kim YS, Choi EK.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Cellular Aging and Neurodegeneration, Ilsong Institute of Life 
Science, Hallym University, Anyang, Republic of Korea.

The post-translational citrullination (deimination) process is mediated by 
peptidylarginine deiminases (PADs), which convert peptidylarginine into 
peptidylcitrulline in the presence of high calcium concentrations. Over the past 
decade, PADs and protein citrullination have been commonly implicated as 
abnormal pathological features in neurodegeneration and inflammatory responses 
associated with diseases such as multiple sclerosis, Alzheimer disease and 
rheumatoid arthritis. Based on this evidence, we investigated the roles of PADs 
and citrullination in the pathogenesis of prion diseases. Prion diseases (also 
known as transmissible spongiform encephalopathies) are fatal neurodegenerative 
diseases that are pathologically well characterized as the accumulation of 
disease-associated misfolded prion proteins, spongiform changes, glial cell 
activation and neuronal loss. We previously demonstrated that the upregulation 
of PAD2, mainly found in reactive astrocytes of infected brains, leads to 
excessive citrullination, which is correlated with disease progression. Further, 
we demonstrated that various cytoskeletal and energy metabolism-associated 
proteins are particularly vulnerable to citrullination. Our recent in vivo and 
in vitro studies elicited altered functions of enolase as the result of 
citrullination; these altered functions included reduced enzyme activity, 
increased protease sensitivity and enhanced plasminogen-binding affinity. These 
findings suggest that PAD2 and citrullinated proteins may play a key role in the 
brain pathology of prion diseases. By extension, we believe that abnormal 
increases in protein citrullination may be strong evidence of neurodegeneration.

DOI: 10.4161/pri.22380
PMCID: PMC3609049
PMID: 23022892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Clin J Oncol Nurs. 2012 Oct;16(5):471-80. doi: 10.1188/12.CJON.471-480.

Oncology clinical challenges: caring for patients with preexisting psychiatric 
illness.

Thomson K(1), Henry B.

Author information:
(1)Texas Oncology-Austin Central, USA. kkt1955@hotmail.com

People with severe mental disorders (SMDs) have a higher mortality rate and 
reduced life expectancy compared to the general population. Factors that 
contribute to higher mortality rates include a higher rate of smoking and 
increased incidence of obesity from lifestyle, diet, or medication side effects. 
Cancer treatment may exacerbate mood and psychotic symptoms in patients with 
SMD. Some of the medications used in cancer treatment or the medications used to 
alleviate the side effects of cancer treatment can have adverse reactions with 
psychotropic medications. This article examines problems that patients with SMD 
encounter with their cancer diagnosis and treatment. Oncology nurses in any 
clinical setting play a pivotal role in identifying the special needs of a 
patient with SMD and must become familiar with psychosocial issues, psychotropic 
medications, and SMD to educate and advocate for these patients and their 
families. Collaborating and coordinating care between oncology and psychiatry 
providers is needed for optimal patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.1188/12.CJON.471-480
PMID: 23022930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Cornea. 2013 Apr;32(4):496-502. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e31825aba0e.

Quo vadis older keratoconus patients? Do they die at younger ages?

McMonnies CW(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Optometry and Vision Science, University of New South Wales, 
Kensington, Australia. c.mcmonnies@unsw.edu.au

Comment in
    Cornea. 2014 Jun;33(6):e3.

PURPOSE: To examine the validity of the observations made by specialist corneal 
surgeons that there seems to be an absence or loss of older patients with 
keratoconus (KC).
METHODS: Using a PubMed search and key words such as KC, epidemiology, 
mortality, mitral valve prolapse, atopy, and asthma, the literature related to 
this topic was reviewed. Specialist contact lens fitting practitioners were 
asked to supply age-related details of KC and nonkeratoconus patients within 
their practices.
RESULTS: Results suggested a marked absence or loss of older KC patients as has 
been observed by specialist corneal surgeons. Several possible explanations are 
described including increased mortality associated with mitral valve prolapse, 
asthma, obesity, and/or obstructive sleep apnea, for example. In addition, 
gender bias, the influence of progression to keratoplasty or age-related 
diseases, as well as difficulty in traveling to specialist practices and the 
need for and dependence on specialist contact lens fitting skills of KC patients 
were considered. The possibility that KC corneas could improve with age-related 
increased natural crosslinking and stiffening is discussed.
CONCLUSIONS: An absence or loss of older KC patients has been found in some 
specialist contact lens fitting practices. Notwithstanding the possible 
influence of numerous other issues, the absence or loss of KC patients may be 
because of reduced life expectancy, a topic that seems to warrant further 
examination. There may be implications for improving the understanding of the 
pathogenesis of KC if reduced life expectancy can be confirmed and the 
associated reasons elucidated.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0b013e31825aba0e
PMID: 23023400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Surg Technol Int. 2012 Dec;22:320-5.

Litanium expandable pedicle screw for the treatment of degenerative and 
traumatic spinal diseases in osteoporotic patients: preliminary experience.

Gazzeri R(1), Roperto R, Fiore C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, San GIovanni Addolorata Hospital, Rome, Italy.

Osteoporosis is a major global health problem, with over 10 million people 
currently diagnosed with the disease. Although 80% of osteoporotic patients are 
women, a considerable number of men are also affected. Also, due to increasing 
life expectancy, the number of elderly patients with osteoporosis affected by 
degenerative and traumatic spinal diseases will increase further. Osteoporosis 
reduces bone quality through negative bone remodelling. Low bone quality can 
reduce the pull-out strength of pedicle screw, and negative bone remodelling can 
cause delayed bone fusion. However, pedicle screw instrumentation of the 
osteoporotic spine carries an increased risk of screw loosening, pull-out, and 
fixation failure. Our preliminary study aims to investigate the efficiency of 
expandable pedicle screws (OsseoScrew-Spinal Fixation System, Alphatec Spine 
Inc., Carlsbad, CA) in osteoporotic spinal patients. All osteoporotic patients 
with degenerative and traumatic spinal diseases admitted in our department 
underwent a pre-operative spinal x-Ray and MRI or CT. Pre-operative clinical 
assesment of patients was based on the visual analog scale (VAS) and Owestry 
Disability (ODI) questionnaire-a disease-specific outcome measure. Ten 
osteoporotic patients were treated with expandable pedicle screws (OsseoScrew). 
Post-operative clinical assessment of patients was based on the VAS and ODI 
questionnaire at 3 months and 1 year of follow-up. Post-operative radiologic 
follow-up was performed after 3 days (CT, x-ray); 3 months (x-ray); 6 months 
(spinal CT); and 1 year (spinal CT). Expandable pedicle screws improved pull-out 
strength as compared to standard pedicle screws in osteoporotic patients with 
degenerative and traumatic spinal diseases.

PMID: 23023577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. IUBMB Life. 2012 Nov;64(11):879-84. doi: 10.1002/iub.1088. Epub 2012 Sep 29.

Role of androgen receptor polyQ chain elongation in Kennedy's disease and use of 
natural osmolytes as potential therapeutic targets.

Kumar R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Sciences, The Commonwealth Medical College, Scranton, PA 
18509, USA. rkumar@tcmedc.org

Instability of CAG triplet repeat encoding polyglutamine (polyQ) stretches in 
the gene for target protein has been implicated as a putative mechanism in 
several inherited neurodegenerative diseases. Expansion of polyQ chain length in 
the androgen receptor (AR) causes spinal and bulbar muscular atrophy (SBMA) or 
Kennedy's disease. Although the mechanisms underlying gain-of-neurotoxic 
function are not completely understood, suggested pathological mechanisms of 
SBMA involve the formation of AR nuclear and cytoplasmic aggregates, a 
characteristic feature of patients with SBMA. The fact that certain AR 
coactivators are sequestered into the nuclear inclusions in SBMA possibly 
through protein-protein interactions supports the notion that AR transcriptional 
dysregulation may be a potential pathological mechanism leading to SBMA. AR 
conformational states associated with aberrant polyQ tract also modulate the 
interaction of AR with several coactivators. In many cases, such diseases can be 
treated through protein replacement therapy; however, because recombinant 
proteins do not cross the blood-brain barrier, the effectiveness of such 
therapies is limited in case of neurodegenerative diseases that warrant 
alternative therapeutic approaches. Among different approaches, inhibiting 
protein aggregation with small molecules that can stimulate protein folding and 
reverse aggregation are the most promising ones. Thus, naturally occurring 
osmolytes or "chemical chaperones" that can easily cross the blood-brain barrier 
and stabilize the functional form of a mutated protein by shifting the folding 
equilibrium away from degradation and/or aggregation is a useful therapeutic 
approach. In this review, we discuss the role of polyQ chain length extension in 
the pathophysiology of SBMA and the use of osmolytes as potential therapeutic 
tool.

Copyright © 2012 International Union of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/iub.1088
PMID: 23024039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Lancet Oncol. 2012 Aug;13(8):762-3. doi: 10.1016/s1470-2045(12)70289-9.

NICE guidance on abiraterone for castration-resistant metastatic prostate cancer 
previously treated with a docetaxel-containing regimen.

Dyer M, Rinaldi F, George E, Adler AI.

DOI: 10.1016/s1470-2045(12)70289-9
PMID: 23024987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Lancet Oncol. 2012 Aug;13(8):764-5. doi: 10.1016/s1470-2045(12)70296-6.

NICE guidance on erlotinib for first-line treatment of EGFR-TK mutation-positive 
advanced or metastatic non-small-cell lung cancer.

Dillon B, Naidoo B, Knight H, Clark P.

DOI: 10.1016/s1470-2045(12)70296-6
PMID: 23024988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Lancet Oncol. 2012 Aug;13(8):766-7. doi: 10.1016/s1470-2045(12)70290-5.

Lapatinib or trastuzumab in combination with an aromatase inhibitor for 
first-line treatment of metastatic hormone-receptor-positive breast cancer that 
overexpresses HER2.

Doss S, Robertson J, Adam J.

DOI: 10.1016/s1470-2045(12)70290-5
PMID: 23024989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Rev Biol Trop. 2012 Sep;60(3):955-65. doi: 10.15517/rbt.v60i3.1750.

Demography of zooplankton (Anuraeopsis fissa, Brachionus rubens and Moina 
macrocopa) fed Chlorella vulgaris and Scenedesmus acutus cultured on different 
media.

Morales-Ventura J(1), Nandini S, Sarma SS, Castellanos-Páez ME.

Author information:
(1)Dirección General Adjunta de Investigación en Acuacultura, Instituto Nacional 
de Pesca, Ciudad de México, México. secciondf@yahoo.com.mx

Generally zooplankton growth is often limited by the quality of their algal 
diet. A cheaper common practice in aquaculture, is to culture algae with 
fertilizers; however, the demography of zooplankton when fed these algae has not 
yet been evaluated. We studied the population growth and life table demography 
of the rotifers Anuraeopsis fissa and Brachionus rubens, and the cladoceran 
Moina macrocopa. For this, the algae Scenedesmus acutus or Chlorella vulgaris 
were cultured on defined (Bold's basal) medium or the commercial liquid 
fertilizer (Bayfolan). Experiments were conducted at one algal concentration 1.0 
x 10(6) cells/mL of C. vulgaris or its equivalent dry weight of 0.5 x 10(6) 
cells/mL of S. acutus. The population dynamics were tested at 23 +/- 1 degrees C 
in 100 mL transparent jars, each with 50mL of the test medium, with an initial 
density of 0.5indiv/mL, for a total of 48 test jars (3 zooplankton 2 algal 
species x 2 culture media x 4 replicates). For the life table experiments with 
M. macrocopa, we introduced 10 neonates (<24h old) into each test jar containing 
the specific algal type and concentration. For the rotifer experiments, we set 
5mL tubes with one neonate each and 10 replicates for each algal species and 
culture medium. We found that the average rotifer life span was not influenced 
by the diet, but for M. macrocopa fed S. acutus cultured in Bold's medium, the 
average lifespan was significantly lower than with the other diets. The gross 
and net reproductive rates of A. fissa (ranging from 18-36 offspring per female) 
were significantly higher for C vulgaris cultured in Bold medium. Regardless of 
the culture medium, Chlorella resulted in significantly higher gross and net 
reproductive rates for B. rubens than S. acutus diets. The reproductive rates of 
M. macrocopa were significantly higher in all the tested diets except when fed 
