CONCLUSION: We found that the HMI is a cost-effective means of providing 
evidence-informed, chronic disease management in primary care to patients with 
hypertension.

DOI: 10.2147/CEOR.S33390
PMCID: PMC3501398
PMID: 23180969


711. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2012 Nov 26;10:142. doi:
10.1186/1477-7525-10-142.

Health economics research into supporting carers of people with dementia: a 
systematic review of outcome measures.

Jones C(1), Edwards RT, Hounsome B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation, IMSCaR, College of 
Health and Behavioural Sciences, Bangor University, Dean Street Building, 
Gwynedd LL57 1UT, UK. c.l.jones@bangor.ac.uk

Advisory bodies, such as the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) in the UK, advocate using preference based instruments to 
measure the quality of life (QoL) component of the quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY). Cost per QALY is used to determine cost-effectiveness, and hence 
funding, of interventions. QALYs allow policy makers to compare the effects of 
different interventions across different patient groups. Generic measures may 
not be sensitive enough to fully capture the QoL effects for certain 
populations, such as carers, so there is a need to consider additional outcome 
measures, which are preference based where possible to enable cost-effectiveness 
analysis to be undertaken. This paper reviews outcome measures commonly used in 
health services research and health economics research involving carers of 
people with dementia. An electronic database search was conducted in PubMed, 
Medline, the Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), 
PsycINFO, the National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED), 
Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE) and Health Technology 
Assessment database. Studies were eligible for inclusion if they included an 
outcome measure for carers of people with dementia. 2262 articles were 
identified. 455 articles describing 361 studies remained after exclusion 
criteria were applied. 228 outcome measures were extracted from the studies. 
Measures were categorised into 44 burden measures, 43 mastery measures, 61 mood 
measures, 32 QoL measures, 27 social support and relationships measures and 21 
staff competency and morale measures. The choice of instrument has implications 
on funding decisions; therefore, researchers need to choose appropriate 
instruments for the population being measured and the type of intervention 
undertaken. If an instrument is not sensitive enough to detect changes in 
certain populations, the effect of an intervention may be underestimated, and 
hence interventions which may appear to be beneficial to participants are not 
deemed cost-effective and are not funded. If this is the case, it is essential 
that additional outcome measures which detect changes in broader QoL are 
included, whilst still retaining preference based utility measures such as EQ-5D 
to allow QALY calculation for comparability with other interventions.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-10-142
PMCID: PMC3541129
PMID: 23181515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. Aust J Rural Health. 2012 Dec;20(6):305-11. doi: 
10.1111/j.1440-1584.2012.01314.x.

Complex impact of remoteness on the incidence of myocardial infarction in 
Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people in Western Australia.

Katzenellenbogen JM(1), Sanfilippo FM, Hobbs MS, Briffa TG, Knuiman MW, Dimer L, 
Thompson PL, Thompson SC.

Author information:
(1)Combined Universities Centre for Rural Health, University of Western 
Australia, Geraldton, Western Australia, Australia. 
judith.katzenellenbogen@uwa.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact of remoteness on Aboriginal and 
non-Aboriginal myocardial infarction incidence rates in men and women of 
different ages.
DESIGN: Descriptive study.
SETTING: Western Australia.
PARTICIPANTS: Incident cases of myocardial infarction in Western Australia from 
2000-2004 identified from person-linked files of hospital and mortality records. 
Analysis was undertaken for Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal populations, 
separately and combined, by broad age group, sex and remoteness.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Incidence of myocardial infarction.
RESULTS: In the combined analysis, age-standardised incidence was significantly 
higher for men in very remote areas (rate ratio 1.31: 95% confidence interval 
(CI), 1.19-1.45) and in women in both regional (rate ratio 1.12: 95% CI, 
1.01-1.20) and very remote (rate ratio 2.05: 95% CI, 1.75-2.41) areas. 
Aboriginal rates were substantially higher than non-Aboriginal rates in all 
substrata. Compared with metropolitan people, regional Aboriginal men and very 
remote non-Aboriginal men aged 25-54 years had significantly higher incidence 
rates. For the remaining rural strata, there was either no geographical 
disadvantage or inconclusive findings.
CONCLUSIONS: Non-metropolitan disadvantage in myocardial infarction rates is 
confirmed in regional areas and women in very remote areas. This disadvantage is 
partly explained by the high rates in Aboriginal people. Non-metropolitan 
dwellers are not uniformly disadvantaged, reflecting the interplay of the many 
factors contributing to the complex relationship between myocardial infarction 
incidence and sex, age, Aboriginality and residence. Aboriginal Western 
Australians in all regions and young non-Aboriginal men living in very remote 
areas need to be targeted to reduce disparities in myocardial infarction.

© 2012 The Authors. Australian Journal of Rural Health © National Rural Health 
Alliance Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1440-1584.2012.01314.x
PMID: 23181814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Nurs Inq. 2013 Dec;20(4):363-71. doi: 10.1111/nin.12013. Epub 2012 Nov 27.

The meaningful encounter: patient and next-of-kin stories about their experience 
of meaningful encounters in health-care.

Gustafsson LK(1), Snellma I, Gustafsson C.

Author information:
(1)School of Health, Care and Social Welfare, Mälardalen University, Sweden.

This study focuses on the meaningful encounters of patients and next of kin, as 
seen from their perspective. Identifying the attributes within meaningful 
encounters is important for increased understanding of caring and to expand and 
develop earlier formulated knowledge about caring relationships. Caring theory 
about the caring relationship provided a point of departure to illuminate the 
meaningful encounter in healthcare contexts. A qualitative explorative design 
with a hermeneutic narrative approach was used to analyze and interpret written 
narratives. The phases of the analysis were naïve interpretation, structure 
analysis on two different levels (narrative structure, and deep structure 
through metaphors) and finally a dialectic interpretation. The narratives 
revealed the meaning of the meaningful encounter as sharing, a nourishing 
fellowship, common responsibility and coming together, experienced as safety and 
warmth, that gives, by extension, life-changing moments, a healing force and 
dissipated insight. The meaningful encounter can be seen as a complex phenomenon 
with various attributes. Understanding the meaningful encounter will enable 
nurses to plan and provide professional care, based on caring science, focusing 
on patient and next-of-kin experiences.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/nin.12013
PMID: 23181930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Gend Med. 2012 Dec;9(6):557-68. doi: 10.1016/j.genm.2012.10.007. Epub 2012
Nov  20.

Low testosterone concentrations in men contribute to the gender gap in 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality.

Haring R(1), John U, Völzke H, Nauck M, Dörr M, Felix SB, Wallaschofski H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Clinical Chemistry and Laboratory Medicine, University Medicine 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany. robin.haring@uni-greifswald.de

Comment in
    Gend Med. 2012 Dec;9(6):569-70.

BACKGROUND: Across the industrialized world, men experience an earlier onset of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) and a life expectancy 5 to 10 years shorter than 
women. Low total testosterone (TT) concentrations in men have been suggested as 
a novel CVD risk factor, but its contribution to this gender gap is less well 
studied.
METHODS: We used data of 4152 individuals (2113 women and 2039 men) aged 20 to 
79 years from the longitudinal population-based cohort Study of Health in 
Pomerania, Germany. Multivariable Poisson and Cox proportional hazard regression 
models were used to investigate the risk of incident cardiovascular morbidity 
(5-year examination follow-up), as well as all-cause and CVD mortality (10-year 
follow-up) between men and women. Additionally, the added risk attributable to 
low TT in men (<10th percentile) was assessed.
RESULTS: Compared with women, men were uniformly at higher risk of incident 
cardiovascular morbidity, including overweight, hypertension, dyslipidemia, 
metabolic syndrome, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. Men were also at increased 
all-cause mortality (hazard ratio = 2.05; 95% CI, 1.61-2.60) and 10-year CVD 
risk compared with women. In subgroup analyses, men with low TT showed the 
highest 10-year CVD and mortality risk compared with both men with higher TT and 
women. TT was also negatively associated with cardiovascular risk as defined by 
the Framingham risk score (P < 0.001), after multivariable adjustment.
CONCLUSIONS: Analyzing a large population-based sample, we observed that men 
have a generally higher risk of incident cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. 
Furthermore, men with low TT concentrations were identified as high-risk 
individuals with regard to 10-year CVD and mortality risk.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.genm.2012.10.007
PMID: 23182129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Rev Med Inst Mex Seguro Soc. 2012 May-Jun;50(3):335-46.

[Clinical guideline for the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of ischemic 
cerebral disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Rivera-Nava SC(1), Miranda-Medrano LI, Pérez-Rojas JE, de Jesús Flores J, 
Rivera-García BE, del Pilar Torres-Arreola L.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de Especialidades, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, Distrito 
Federal, México.

Stroke is considered a big public health problem in adults and older adults. 
Increased life expectancy is one of the greatest achievements of development; 
however it is also a great challenge because of the implications with regard to 
increasing chronic disease that it will lead complications such as stroke. 
Stroke is the leading cause of disability worldwide in adulthood and the second 
leading cause of dementia. In developing countries, it is estimated that the 
costs of care for stroke are from 6000 to 8000 euros, as well as the social 
costs of informal care and changes in family dynamics around patients. So the 
purpose of this clinical practice guideline is to define recommendations based 
on the best available evidence for the standardization of health care of 
patients with stroke.

PMID: 23182266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2013 Sep;46(3):315-325.e3. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.08.017. Epub 2012 Nov 20.

Rehabilitation in advanced, progressive, recurrent cancer: a randomized 
controlled trial.

Jones L(1), Fitzgerald G, Leurent B, Round J, Eades J, Davis S, Gishen F, Holman 
A, Hopkins K, Tookman A.

Author information:
(1)Marie Curie Palliative Care Research Unit, UCL Mental Health Sciences Unit, 
University College London, London, United Kingdom. caroline.jones@ucl.ac.uk

CONTEXT: Two million people across the U.K. are living with cancer, often 
experienced as a long-term condition. They may have unmet needs after active 
treatment. Rehabilitation aims to address these needs, maximize psychological 
and physical function, and enable minimum dependency regardless of life 
expectancy.
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to test, in a randomized controlled trial, the clinical and 
cost effectiveness of a rehabilitation intervention for patients with advanced, 
recurrent cancer.
METHODS: We conducted a two-arm, wait-list control, randomized trial of a 
complex rehabilitation intervention delivered by a hospice-based 
multidisciplinary team vs. usual care for active, progressive, recurrent 
hematological and breast malignancies, with a follow-up at three months. The 
primary outcome was the psychological subscale of the Supportive Care Needs 
Survey (SCNS). Secondary outcomes were other domains of the SCNS, psychological 
status, continuity of care, quality of life, and resource use.
RESULTS: Forty-one participants were enrolled and 36 completed the trial. The 
primary outcome was significantly lower in the intervention arm (adjusted 
difference -16.8, 95% CI -28.34 to -5.3; P = 0.006). The SCNS physical and 
patient care subscales (-14.2, 95% CI -26.2 to -2.2; P = 0.02 and -7.4, 95% CI 
-13.7 to -1.1; P = 0.02, respectively) and self-reported health state (12.8, 95% 
CI 3.2 to 22.4; P = 0.01) also differed significantly. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was £19,390 per quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSION: This intervention significantly reduced the unmet needs of cancer 
survivors and it is likely that it is cost-effective. Despite small numbers, the 
main effect size was robust. We recommend implementation alongside evaluation 
in wider clinical settings and patient populations.

Copyright © 2013 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.08.017
PMID: 23182307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Parkinsonism Relat Disord. 2013 Feb;19(2):238-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.parkreldis.2012.10.016. Epub 2012 Nov 20.

Rest energy expenditure in Parkinson's disease: role of disease progression and 
dopaminergic therapy.

Capecci M(1), Petrelli M, Emanuelli B, Millevolte M, Nicolai A, Provinciali L, 
Ceravolo MG.

Author information:
(1)Dept. Experimental and Clinical Medicine, Politecnica delle Marche 
University, Via Tronto 10/a, 60020 Ancona, Italy. m.capecci@univpm.it

BACKGROUND: Weight loss affects more than 50% of subjects suffering from 
Parkinson's Disease (PD) and is associated with reduced life expectancy. The 
pathogenesis is multifactorial and the mechanism of PD metabolism control is 
unresolved. This cross-sectional study aimed to ascertain the relationship 
between rest energy expenditure (REE), PD duration, Hoehn & Yahr (H&Y) stage, 
drug therapy and body mass index (BMI), in order to determine possible 
predictors of weight loss.
METHODS: We studied fifty-eight PD subjects, after excluding conditions with a 
known influence on metabolism and weight (severe tremor, dyskinesias, dementia, 
fever, on-going infections, thyroid disease, and dysphagia). Subjects underwent 
REE measurement, through indirect calorimetry, in both the OFF state (12 h 
fasting and off medications) and in the ON state (60 min after taking 
dopaminergic drugs).
RESULTS: OFF state. In the majority of PD patients REE values did not differ 
from those expected (based upon age, gender and BMI), being significantly higher 
in subjects in H&Y stage IV than H&Y stage II (t = 3.5; p = 0.001). Disease 
duration and rigidity were significantly associated with increased REE (r(2) = 
0.31, F = 3.6; p = 0.0045). ON state. REE decreased by approximately 8% in all 
subjects, irrespective of disease duration or H&Y stage. BMI was inversely 
related to disease duration and UPDRS motor score in the OFF state and directly 
related to UPDRS motor score in the ON state (r(2) = 0.333, F = 3.5; p = 0.003).
CONCLUSIONS: In PD REE increases as a function of disease duration; its adverse 
role in the decrease in BMI seems to be compensated for by dopaminergic 
medication.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2012.10.016
PMID: 23182312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2013 Feb;28(2):413-20. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfs487.
Epub  2012 Nov 25.

An economic evaluation of intravenous versus oral iron supplementation in people 
on haemodialysis.

Wong G(1), Howard K, Hodson E, Irving M, Craig JC.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
germaine.wong@health.nsw.gov.au

BACKGROUND: Iron supplementation can be administered either intravenously or 
orally in patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) and iron deficiency 
anaemia, but practice varies widely. The aim of this study was to estimate the 
health care costs and benefits of parenteral iron compared with oral iron in 
haemodialysis patients receiving erythropoiesis-stimulating agents (ESAs).
METHODS: Using broad health care funder perspective, a probabilistic Markov 
model was constructed to compare the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of 
parenteral iron therapy versus oral iron for the management of haemodialysis 
patients with relative iron deficiency. A series of one-way, multi-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted to assess the robustness of 
the model structure and the extent in which the model's assumptions were 
sensitive to the uncertainties within the input variables.
RESULTS: Compared with oral iron, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) for parenteral iron were $74,760 per life year saved and $34,660 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. A series of one-way sensitivity 
analyses show that the ICER is most sensitive to the probability of achieving 
haemoglobin (Hb) targets using supplemental iron with a consequential decrease 
in the standard ESA doses and the relative increased risk in all-cause mortality 
associated with low Hb levels (Hb < 9.0 g/dL). If the willingness-to-pay 
threshold was set at $50,000/QALY, the proportions of simulations that showed 
parenteral iron was cost-effective compared with oral iron were over 90%.
CONCLUSIONS: Assuming that there is an overall increased mortality risk 
associated with very low Hb level (<9.0 g/dL), using parenteral iron to achieve 
an Hb target between 9.5 and 12 g/L is cost-effective compared with oral iron 
therapy among haemodialysis patients with relative iron deficiency.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfs487
PMID: 23182811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2013 Apr;28(4):917-26. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfs490.
Epub  2012 Nov 25.

Health benefits and costs of screening for colorectal cancer in people on 
dialysis or who have received a kidney transplant.

Wong G(1), Li MW, Howard K, Hua DK, Chapman JR, Bourke M, Turner R, Tong A, 
Craig JC.

Author information:
(1)Centre of Kidney Research, The Children’s Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, 
NSW, Australia. germaine.wong@health.nsw.gov.au

Comment in
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2013 Apr;28(4):774-7.

BACKGROUND: Despite the higher risk of colorectal cancer (CRC) in people with 
chronic kidney disease, it remains uncertain whether early detection through 
screening is cost-effective in this setting. We aimed to determine the costs and 
health benefits of CRC screening in people on dialysis or who have received a 
kidney transplant.
METHODS: Using a government health perspective, three probabilistic Markov 
models were constructed to compare the cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of 
annual immunochemical faecal occult blood test (iFOBT) screening against 
no-screening in a cohort of 1000 patients (age 50-70 years) on dialysis and with 
kidney transplants. A series of one-way, multi-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were conducted to assess the robustness of the model structure and the 
extent in which the model's assumptions were sensitive to the uncertainties 
within the input variables.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of CRC screening 
compared with no-screening were $138 828 per quality-adjusted life year [QALY; 
$122 977 per life year saved (LYS)], $121 973 per QALY ($ 85 095 per LYS) and 
$44 790 per QALY ($25 036 per LYS) for dialysis patients not listed on the 
transplant waiting list, patients on the transplant waiting list and patients 
with kidney transplants, respectively. The test specificity of iFOBT, the 
starting age of screening and cancer prevalence were influential factors that 
determined the overall cost-effectiveness of screening in this setting.
CONCLUSION: Screening for CRC using iFOBT may reduce cancer-specific mortality 
in patients on dialysis and with kidney transplants. However, the benefits and 
costs of screening CRCs in patients on dialysis, especially for those deemed not 
suitable for transplantation, greatly exceeded the typical thresholds for 
acceptable cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfs490
PMID: 23182812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Gerontology. 2013;59(4):289-96. doi: 10.1159/000343990. Epub 2012 Nov 24.

Exercise limitations by the oxygen delivery and utilization systems in aging and 
disease: coordinated adaptation and deadaptation of the lung-heart muscle axis - 
a mini-review.

Burtscher M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sport Sciences, Medical Section, University of Innsbruck, 
Innsbruck, Austria.

Cardiorespiratory fitness (aerobic exercise capacity) is one of the most 
important prerequisites for successful aging in human beings and depends on 
adequate oxygen transport by the respiratory and circulatory systems from 
environmental air to the working muscles and the efficient utilization of oxygen 
by the mitochondria. A linear dose-response relation between aerobic exercise 
capacity, morbidity, mortality, and quality of life is well documented. The 
process of normal aging is associated with a variable reduction in functional 
capacity of the main organs involved in oxygen delivery and utilization. 
Integrated changes of the heart-lung muscle axis are termed here 'coordinated 
deadaptation', e.g. due to aging and disease, in contrast to the beneficial 
effects of 'coordinated adaptation', e.g. resulting from exercise training. 
Physical inactivity in aging persons initiates a circulus vitiosus resulting in 
coordinated deadaptation of the oxygen delivery and utilization systems mainly 
affecting the heart-muscle axis. Whereas in the healthy elderly the deadaptation 
process starts from inactive locomotor muscles, the lung or the heart represent 
the origin in patients suffering from respiratory or cardiovascular diseases. 
Specific exercise training programs, considering the state of cardiorespiratory 
health and physical activity, are the most important and almost the only 
effective intervention to avoid or to break the circulus vitiosus, thereby 
promoting quality and expectancy of life in aging humans.

Copyright © 2012 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000343990
PMID: 23182831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. J Biotechnol. 2013 Feb 10;163(3):281-91. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2012.11.008.
 Epub 2012 Nov 23.

Expression of wheat expansin driven by the RD29 promoter in tobacco confers 
water-stress tolerance without impacting growth and development.

Li F(1), Han Y, Feng Y, Xing S, Zhao M, Chen Y, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Crop Biology, College of Life Sciences, Shandong 
Agricultural University, Tai'an, Shandong, 271018, PR China.

Expansins are the key regulators of cell wall extension during plant growth. 
Previously, we produced transgenic tobacco plants with increased tolerance to 
water stress by overexpressing the wheat expansin gene TaEXPB23 driven by the 
constitutive 35S cauliflower mosaic virus (CaMV) promoter. However, the growth 
and development of 35S::TaEXPB23 transgenic tobacco plants were altered under 
normal growth conditions, with a faster growth rate at the seedling stage, 
earlier flowering and maturation, and a shorter plant height compared to WT. In 
the current study, we determined that cellular characteristics and carbohydrate 
metabolism were altered in 35S::TaEXPB23 transgenic tobacco plants. We also 
generated transgenic Arabidopsis plants using the same vector. The transgenic 
Arabidopsis plants had the same phenotype as the transgenic tobacco plants, 
which may have resulted from the altered expression of several flowering-related 
genes. We then produced TaEXPB23 transgenic tobacco plants using the 
stress-inducible RD29A promoter. The use of this promoter reduced the negative 
effects of TaEXPB23 on plant growth and development. The RD29A::TaEXPB23 
transgenic tobacco plants had greater tolerance to water stress than WT, as 
determined by examining physiological and biochemical parameters. Therefore, the 
use of stress-inducible promoters, such as RD29A, may minimize the negative 
effects of constitutive transgene expression and improve the water-stress 
tolerance of plants.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2012.11.008
PMID: 23183383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Eur J Epidemiol. 2013 Mar;28(3):229-40. doi: 10.1007/s10654-012-9747-x. Epub
 2012 Nov 27.

Convergence and divergence of life expectancy in Europe: a centennial view.

Mackenbach JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. j.mackenbach@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Eur J Epidemiol. 2013 Mar;28(3):203-4.

It has been noted that national life expectancies have diverged in Europe in 
recent decades, but it is unknown how these recent trends compare to longer term 
developments. Data on life expectancy, cause-specific mortality and determinants 
of mortality were extracted from harmonized international data-bases. Variation 
was quantified with the inter-quartile range, and the contribution of changing 
economic conditions was analyzed by comparing observed life expectancy 
variations with those expected on the basis of changes in levels of national 
income and/or changes in the relation between national income and life 
expectancy. During the first decades of the 20th century, variation in life 
expectancy in Europe increased to reach peak values around 1920, then decreased 
to reach its lowest values in 1960 (among men) and 1970 (among women), and 
finally increased strongly again. The first widening was due to less rapid 
decline in mortality in Southern and Central and Eastern Europe, particularly 
from infectious diseases, and coincided with an increasing strength of the 
national income-life expectancy relation. The second widening was due to 
stagnating or increasing mortality in Central and Eastern Europe, particularly 
from cardiovascular diseases, and coincided with a very strong rise of 
between-country differences in national income. Despite some similarities, 
differences between both episodes of widening differences in life expectancy 
cast doubt on the idea that the current episode of widening represents a simple 
delay of epidemiological transitions. Instead, it is an alarming phenomenon that 
should be a main focus of European policy making.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-012-9747-x
PMID: 23184355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Cancer. 2013 Mar 15;119(6):1266-76. doi: 10.1002/cncr.27864. Epub 2012 Nov
26.

Cost-effectiveness of alternating magnetic resonance imaging and digital 
mammography screening in BRCA1 and BRCA2 gene mutation carriers.

Cott Chubiz JE(1), Lee JM, Gilmore ME, Kong CY, Lowry KP, Halpern EF, McMahon 
PM, Ryan PD, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02114, USA.

BACKGROUND: Current clinical guidelines recommend earlier, more intensive breast 
cancer screening with both magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and mammography for 
women with breast cancer susceptibility gene (BRCA) mutations. Unspecified 
details of screening schedules are a challenge for implementing guidelines.
METHODS: A Markov Monte Carlo computer model was used to simulate screening in 
asymptomatic women who were BRCA1 and BRCA2 mutation carriers. Three 
dual-modality strategies were compared with digital mammography (DM) alone: 1) 
DM and MRI alternating at 6-month intervals beginning at age 25 years (Alt25), 
2) annual MRI beginning at age 25 years with alternating DM added at age 30 
years (MRI25/Alt30), and 3) DM and MRI alternating at 6-month intervals 
beginning at age 30 years (Alt30). Primary outcomes were quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs), lifetime costs (in 2010 US dollars), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness (dollars per QALY gained). Additional outcomes included 
potential harms of screening, and lifetime costs stratified into component 
categories (screening and diagnosis, treatment, mortality, and patient time 
costs).
RESULTS: All 3 dual-modality screening strategies increased QALYs and costs. 
Alt30 screening had the lowest incremental costs per additional QALY gained 
(BRCA1, $74,200 per QALY; BRCA2, $215,700 per QALY). False-positive test results 
increased substantially with dual-modality screening and occurred more 
frequently in BRCA2 carriers. Downstream savings in both breast cancer treatment 
and mortality costs were outweighed by increases in up-front screening and 
diagnosis costs. The results were influenced most by estimates of breast cancer 
risk and MRI costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Alternating MRI and DM screening at 6-month intervals beginning at 
age 30 years was identified as a clinically effective approach to applying 
current guidelines, and was more cost-effective in BRCA1 gene mutation carriers 
compared with BRCA2 gene mutation carriers.

Copyright © 2012 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.27864
PMCID: PMC3586945
PMID: 23184400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial Disclosures: Dr. Gazelle has served as 
a consultant for GE Healthcare. There is no direct conflict with the content of 
this article.


724. Qual Life Res. 2013 Sep;22(7):1717-27. doi: 10.1007/s11136-012-0322-4. Epub
2012  Nov 25.

Measurement properties of the EQ-5D-5L compared to the EQ-5D-3L across eight 
patient groups: a multi-country study.

Janssen MF(1), Pickard AS, Golicki D, Gudex C, Niewada M, Scalone L, Swinburn P, 
Busschbach J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Erasmus MC, Erasmus 
University, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
mf.bas.janssen@gmail.com

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to assess the measurement properties of the 
5-level classification system of the EQ-5D (5L), in comparison with the 3-level 
EQ-5D (3L).
METHODS: Participants (n = 3,919) from six countries, including eight patient 
groups with chronic conditions (cardiovascular disease, respiratory disease, 
depression, diabetes, liver disease, personality disorders, arthritis, and 
stroke) and a student cohort, completed the 3L and 5L and, for most 
participants, also dimension-specific rating scales. The 3L and 5L were compared 
in terms of feasibility (missing values), redistribution properties, ceiling, 
discriminatory power, convergent validity, and known-groups validity.
RESULTS: Missing values were on average 0.8% for 5L and 1.3% for 3L. In total, 
2.9% of responses were inconsistent between 5L and 3L. Redistribution from 3L to 
5L using EQ dimension-specific rating scales as reference was validated for all 
35 3L-5L-level combinations. For 5L, 683 unique health states were observed 
versus 124 for 3L. The ceiling was reduced from 20.2% (3L) to 16.0% (5L). 
Absolute discriminatory power (Shannon index) improved considerably with 5L 
(mean 1.87 for 5L versus 1.24 for 3L), and relative discriminatory power 
(Shannon Evenness index) improved slightly (mean 0.81 for 5L versus 0.78 for 
3L). Convergent validity with WHO-5 was demonstrated and improved slightly with 
5L. Known-groups validity was confirmed for both 5L and 3L.
CONCLUSIONS: The EQ-5D-5L appears to be a valid extension of the 3-level system 
which improves upon the measurement properties, reducing the ceiling while 
improving discriminatory power and establishing convergent and known-groups 
validity.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-012-0322-4
PMCID: PMC3764313
PMID: 23184421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Adv Healthc Mater. 2012 Jan 11;1(1):27-34. doi: 10.1002/adhm.201100001. Epub
 2011 Dec 2.

Bio-electrospraying and cell electrospinning: progress and opportunities for 
basic biology and clinical sciences.

Poncelet D(1), de Vos P, Suter N, Jayasinghe SN.

Author information:
(1)ONIRIS, UMR CNRS GEPEA 6144, route de la Géraudière, BP 82225, 44322 Nantes 
Cedex 3, France.

Engineering of functional tissues is a fascinating and fertile arena of research 
and development. This flourishing enterprise weaves together many areas of 
research to tackle the most complex question faced to date, namely how to design 
and reconstruct a synthetic three-dimensional fully functional tissue on demand. 
At present our healthcare is under threat by several social and economical 
issues together with those of a more scientific and clinical nature. One such 
issue arises from our increasing life expectancy, resulting in an ageing 
society. This steeply growing ageing society requires functional organotypic 
tissues on demand for repair, replacement, and rejuvenation (R(3) ). Several 
approaches are pioneered and developed to assist conventional tissue/organ 
transplantation. In this Progress Report, "non-contact jet-based" approaches for 
engineering functional tissues are introduced and bio-electrosprays and cell 
electrospinning, i.e., biotechniques that have demonstrated as being benign for 
directly handling living cells and whole organisms, are highlighted. These 
biotechniques possess the ability to directly handle heterogeneous cell 
populations as suspensions with a biopolymer and/or other micro/nanomaterials 
for directly forming three-dimensional functional living reconstructs. These 
discoveries and developments have provided a promising biotechnology platform 
with far-reaching ramifications for a wide range of applications in basic 
biological laboratories to their utility in the clinic.

Copyright © 2012 WILEY-VCH Verlag GmbH & Co. KGaA, Weinheim.

DOI: 10.1002/adhm.201100001
PMID: 23184685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2013 Feb;43(2):258-67. doi: 10.1093/ejcts/ezs588.
Epub  2012 Nov 25.

State of the art in paediatric heart transplantation: the Berlin experience.

Hetzer R(1), Weng Y, Delmo Walter EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, Deutsches Herzzentrum 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.

Enormous progress has been made in paediatric heart transplantation since the 
first unsuccessful effort by Kantrowitz in 1967. Early reports of children 
undergoing heart transplantation showed alarmingly high perioperative mortality 
rates of 25-60%, with the diagnosis of congenital heart disease (CHD) 
representing a particularly high-risk subset compared with cardiomyopathy. Many 
of these early failures were related to poor patient selection, suboptimal 
immunosuppression and technical problems. We learned a great deal from these 
earlier difficulties. Presently, with more refined techniques, better-defined 
patient selection criteria, excellent graft rejection monitoring and optimal 
immunosuppression, the ISHLT 2011 registry reported a 10-year survival rate of 
60% for patients transplanted for end-stage CHD and >70% for those transplanted 
for cardiomyopathy. The technical dilemmas in complex CHD were overcome by 
surgical ingenuity and creativity, innovative solutions and careful surgical 
planning, adapting the complex recipient anatomy to the normal donor anatomy. 
The miniaturized Berlin Heart pulsatile ventricular assist devices in children 
as a bridge to transplantation have revolutionized treatment and become a 
significant contribution in heart-failure therapy. The intramyocardial 
electrogram and echocardiographic strain rate imaging have been employed as 
non-invasive techniques of rejection monitoring. Immunosuppressive drugs have a 
major impact on the development and progression of cardiac allograft 
vasculopathy, the main cause of cardiac allograft loss and a leading cause of 
mortality after the first year post-transplantation. The questions of whether a 
transplanted heart in a newborn grows to adult size along with the child and 
whether the dimensional cardiac growth allows adequate function over time have 
been largely answered in our previous investigations. As more transplanted 
children reach adulthood, concerns about their life expectancy when they have 
reached 10 years of life post-transplant are raised, particularly with respect 
to establishing partnerships and families, their ability to earn a living and 
the fulfilment of personal life perspectives. Some heart-transplanted patients 
require retransplantation to remain alive. The disparity between the demand for 
and supply of donor hearts makes retransplantation an ethical issue. We 'do not 
refuse' any patient who needs retransplantation. Mechanical circulatory support 
devices for long-term use are now largely available to accommodate such cases.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezs588
PMID: 23184909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. PLoS One. 2012;7(11):e49831. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049831. Epub 2012
Nov  20.

Molecular pathways involved in prostate carcinogenesis: insights from public 
microarray datasets.

Baetke SC(1), Adriaens ME, Seigneuric R, Evelo CT, Eijssen LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioinformatics - BiGCaT, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer is currently the most frequently diagnosed 
malignancy in men and the second leading cause of cancer-related deaths in 
industrialized countries. Worldwide, an increase in prostate cancer incidence is 
expected due to an increased life-expectancy, aging of the population and 
improved diagnosis. Although the specific underlying mechanisms of prostate 
carcinogenesis remain unknown, prostate cancer is thought to result from a 
combination of genetic and environmental factors altering key cellular 
processes. To elucidate these complex interactions and to contribute to the 
understanding of prostate cancer progression and metastasis, analysis of large 
scale gene expression studies using bioinformatics approaches is used to 
decipher regulation of core processes.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: In this study, a standardized quality control 
procedure and statistical analysis (http://www.arrayanalysis.org/) were applied 
to multiple prostate cancer datasets retrieved from the ArrayExpress data 
repository and pathway analysis using PathVisio (http://www.pathvisio.org/) was 
performed. The results led to the identification of three core biological 
processes that are strongly affected during prostate carcinogenesis: cholesterol 
biosynthesis, the process of epithelial-to-mesenchymal transition and an 
increased metabolic activity.
CONCLUSIONS: This study illustrates how a standardized bioinformatics evaluation 
of existing microarray data and subsequent pathway analysis can quickly and 
cost-effectively provide essential information about important molecular 
pathways and cellular processes involved in prostate cancer development and 
disease progression. The presented results may assist in biomarker profiling and 
the development of novel treatment approaches.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049831
PMCID: PMC3502280
PMID: 23185449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


728. Heart Int. 2012 Jun 5;7(2):e10. doi: 10.4081/hi.2012.e10. Epub 2012 Jun 14.

Transulnar sheathless percutaneous coronary intervention during bivalirudin 
infusion in high-risk elderly female with non-ST segment elevation myocardial 
infarction.

Summaria F(1), Lucci V, Mustilli M.

Author information:
(1)Interventional Cardiology, Policlinico Casilino;

Due to the ageing population and raised life expectancy, elderly patients are 
increasingly referred for percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) during acute 
coronary syndromes (ACS). Bleeding complications are not infrequent during ACS, 
occurring in 2-5% of patients with prognostic and economic consequences. In 
particular, periprocedural bleeding and vascular complications are associated 
with worse clinical outcome, prolonged hospital stay and increased short- and 
long-term mortality, especially in elderly patients with acute coronary 
syndromes. We report the case of an 83-year old female referred to our hospital 
because of non-ST segment elevation myocardial infarction with high bleeding 
risk and unsuitable radial artery undergoing tran-sulnar sheathless PCI during 
bivalirudin infusion. The clinical, technical, pharmacological and prognostic 
implications are discussed.

DOI: 10.4081/hi.2012.e10
PMCID: PMC3504302
PMID: 23185677

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests: the authors report no 
potential conflict of interests.


729. Prescrire Int. 2012 Oct;21(131):233.

Vandetanib: too dangerous in medullary thyroid cancer.

[No authors listed]

Treatment of medullary thyroid cancer is mainly based on surgery. Life 
expectancy exceeds 10 years in almost half of patients with inoperable advanced 
or metastatic disease. Cytotoxic chemotherapy is generally ineffective when this 
malignancy progresses. Vandetanib (Caprelsa, AstraZeneca), a multiple kinase 
inhibitor, is authorised in the European Union for use in this setting. Its 
clinical evaluation is mainly based on a double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled trial in 331 patients, 70% of whom had progressed within the 
previous 6 months. Median follow-up (2 years) is too short to detect an impact 
on overall survival (about 85% in both groups). Analyses based on other outcomes 
(progression-free survival and pain) are unreliable, due to the large amount of 
missing data. The adverse effect profile of vandetanib is unfavourable: it 
includes diarrhoea and other gastrointestinal disorders, cardiovascular 
disorders, and cutaneous, neuropsychological, haemorrhagic and metabolic 
disorders. Visual disturbances have also been observed. Vandetanib also prolongs 
the QT interval: 3 cases of torsades de pointes and 9 sudden deaths have already 
been reported. Renal failure increases this risk. Numerous pharmacokinetic 
interactions are likely to occur, notably via cytochrome P450 isoenzyme CYP 3A4. 
Vandetanib reduces the effectiveness of levothyroxine. Vandetanib should not be 
combined with other drugs that prolong the QT interval. The long half-life of 
vandetanib (about 3 weeks) must be taken into account when managing interactions 
and adverse effects. There is no firm evidence that vandetanib has a favourable 
harm-benefit balance in patients with inoperable advanced or metastatic 
medullary thyroid cancer.

PMID: 23185843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Prescrire Int. 2012 Oct;21(131):242-8.

Management of localised prostate cancer: watchful waiting, surgery or radiation 
therapy, depending on the natural course, which is often relatively slow.

[No authors listed]

Localised prostate cancer, confined to the prostate gland, occurs mainly in men 
over 65 years of age. The principal management options are watchful waiting, 
prostatectomy and radiation therapy. Which of these options has the best 
harm-benefit balance for patients with localised prostate cancer? To answer this 
question, we conducted a review of the literature using the standard Prescrire 
methodology. The natural history of localised prostate cancer depends on the 
extent and histologic grade of the tumour, and pretreatment PSA level. Without 
immediate treatment, the risk of death from prostate cancer that only one 
involves one lobe, a Gleason histological score of 7 or less, and a PSA level of 
20 ng/ml or lower is less than 0.5% per year. The risk is about 4% per year in 
patients with larger tumours, poorly differentiated cancer cells (Gleason score 
above 7), or an elevated PSA level. Most data on radical prostatectomy come from 
a randomised trial versus watchful waiting in 695 men with localised cancer. 
Prostatectomy reduced all-cause mortality after a median followup of about 13 
years (46% versus 53% without treatment), but this benefit was only seen in 
patients younger than 65 years at diagnosis. After 4 years of follow-up, 
prostatectomy was associated with erectile dysfunction in approximately 40% of 
patients and with incontinence in about 25% of patients. External beam radiation 
therapy reduced overall mortality to a lesser degree than prostatectomy, but the 
level of evidence is lower for this modality. Brachytherapy (implantation of a 
radioactive isotope in the prostate) has not been compared directly with other 
treatments. Transient radiation proctitis is common after external beam 
radiation therapy. About 15% of patients treated with external beam radiation 
therapy and 10% of patients treated with brachytherapy experience long-term 
intestinal disorders. About half of patients treated with external beam 
radiation therapy and the majority of patients treated with brachytherapy have 
transient symptoms of radiation cystitis. In the long term, about 5% of patients 
treated with radiation therapy have urinary incontinence, versus 12% to 25% of 
surgical patients. In the long term, about 75% of surgical patients experience 
erectile dysfunction, compared to about 60% of patients treated with external 
beam radiation therapy and about 50% of patients who opt for watchful waiting. 
Brachytherapy appears to cause less erectile dysfunction than external beam 
radiation therapy. In patients treated with external beam radiation therapy, the 
addition of hormone therapy for 4 to 6 months reduced all-cause mortality in two 
randomised trials but caused gynaecomastia, more erectile dysfunction, hot 
flashes, and hepatitis. Hormone therapy has an unfavourable harm-benefit balance 
when used alone to treat localised prostate cancer. Further studies of 
cryotherapy and high-intensity focused ultrasound therapy are needed to 
determine their respective benefits and harms. In practice, watchful waiting is 
the most reasonable option for men with low-risk localised prostate cancer and a 
life expectancy of less than 10 years. In men with low- or intermediate-risk 
localised prostate cancer and a life expectancy of more than 10 years, there is 
insufficient data available in early 2012 to show which of the following options 
is preferable: watchful waiting, radical prostatectomy, external beam radiation 
therapy, or brachytherapy. Patients should be informed of the risks associated 
with each of these options and should be actively involved in the choice of 
treatment. Treatment is often warranted for patients with high-risk localised 
prostate cancer.The main options are either radical prostatectomy or external 
beam radiation therapy combined with hormone therapy.

PMID: 23185849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Addict Sci Clin Pract. 2012 Aug 28;7(1):15. doi: 10.1186/1940-0640-7-15.

Can screening and brief intervention lead to population-level reductions in 
alcohol-related harm?

Heather N(1).

Author information:
(1)Northumbria University, Newcastle upon Tyne, NE1 8ST, UK. 
nick.heather@northumbria.ac.uk

A distinction is made between the clinical and public health justifications for 
screening and brief intervention (SBI) against hazardous and harmful alcohol 
consumption. Early claims for a public health benefit of SBI derived from 
research on general medical practitioners' (GPs') advice on smoking cessation, 
but these claims have not been realized, mainly because GPs have not 
incorporated SBI into their routine practice. A recent modeling exercise 
estimated that, if all GPs in England screened every patient at their next 
consultation, 96% of the general population would be screened over 10 years, 
with 70-79% of excessive drinkers receiving brief interventions (BI); assuming a 
10% success rate, this would probably amount to a population-level effect of 
SBI. Thus, a public health benefit for SBI presupposes widespread screening; but 
recent government policy in England favors targeted versus universal screening, 
and in Scotland screening is based on new registrations and clinical 
presentation. A recent proposal for a national screening program was rejected by 
the UK National Health Service's National Screening Committee because 1) there 
was no good evidence that SBI led to reductions in mortality or morbidity, and 
2) a safe, simple, precise, and validated screening test was not available. Even 
in countries like Sweden and Finland, where expensive national programs to 
disseminate SBI have been implemented, only a minority of the population has 
been asked about drinking during health-care visits, and a minority of excessive 
drinkers has been advised to cut down. Although there has been research on the 
relationship between treatment for alcohol problems and population-level 
effects, there has been no such research for SBI, nor have there been 
experimental investigations of its relationship with population-level measures 
of alcohol-related harm. These are strongly recommended. In this article, 
conditions that would allow a population-level effect of SBI to occur are 
reviewed, including their political acceptability. It is tentatively concluded 
that widespread dissemination of SBI, without the implementation of alcohol 
control measures, might have indirect influences on levels of consumption and 
harm but would be unlikely on its own to result in public health benefits. 
However, if and when alcohol control measures were introduced, SBI would still 
have an important role in the battle against alcohol-related harm.

DOI: 10.1186/1940-0640-7-15
PMCID: PMC3507632
PMID: 23186309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Acad Med. 2012 Dec;87(12):1665-7. doi: 10.1097/ACM.0b013e318272113f.

Commentary: linking health equity with economic development: insights from my 
year as Chairman of the Board of the Chamber of Commerce.

Clancy GP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oklahoma School of Community 
Medicine, Tulsa, OK, USA. gerard-clancy@ouhsc.edu

Many urban areas struggle with significant health disparities. In Tulsa, 
Oklahoma, there is a 14-year difference in life expectancy between the 
predominantly African American population in north Tulsa and the predominantly 
Caucasian population in south Tulsa. The roots of Tulsa's health disparities can 
be linked, in part, to a long history of racial mistrust stemming from the 1921 
Tulsa Race Riot, arguably one of the worst race riots in U.S. history. In 2011, 
the author served as both a university campus president and chairman of the 
board of the Tulsa region's chamber of commerce. Through his work with the 
chamber, he discovered the business community's substantial resources and 
advocacy abilities. He also found that regional business leaders strongly 
supported health equity, diversity, and inclusion initiatives, both as moral 
obligations and regional economic development imperatives. After sharing the 
lessons he learned from working closely with business leaders, the author 
encourages other academic health centers (AHCs) to reach out to their business 
communities, which are likely willing and able to help them undertake similar 
initiatives. In doing so, AHCs and businesses can work together to improve the 
economic vitality of their regions.

DOI: 10.1097/ACM.0b013e318272113f
PMID: 23187917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2013 May-Jun;47(5):443-8. doi: 
10.1097/MCG.0b013e3182703409.

Prognostic factors in patients with gallbladder cancer after surgical resection: 
analysis of 279 operated patients.

Lim H(1), Seo DW, Park DH, Lee SS, Lee SK, Kim MH, Hwang S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Asan Medical Center, University of Ulsan 
Medical College, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: Identification of prognostic factors can help predict life 
expectancy and decide treatment plan. We evaluated prognostic factors in 
patients with gallbladder cancer (GBC) after surgical resection.
STUDY: Data from 279 patients with GBC who underwent surgery between January 
1999 and February 2009 were reviewed retrospectively.
RESULTS: Of the 279 patients, 127 (45.5%) were male; median age was 63 years. R0 
resection was achieved in 164 (58.8%) patients, 35 by cholecystectomy and 129 by 
extended resection. Chemotherapy and radiotherapy were performed in 72 (25.8%) 
and 55 (19.7%) patients. At a median follow-up of 17.0 months, median overall 
survival (OS) was 26.0 months. Five-year survival rates for stages I, II, IIIA, 
IIIB, IVA, and IVB GBC were 94.7%, 75.7%, 44.5%, 21.7%, 4.7%, and 2.6%, 
respectively. Compared with cholecystectomy, extended resection showed improved 
OS in all T stages, but statistical significance was observed only in T3 
(P<0.001) and T4 (P=0.007). Although OS was similar in patients who received 
chemotherapy or radiotherapy, radiotherapy significantly improved OS in patients 
with positive resection margin (P=0.023). Low-grade histologic type (P=0.047) 
and clear resection margin (P=0.002) were significant predictors of increased 
OS, but epidemiological factors such as gallstones and anomalous 
pancreaticobiliary ductal union were not.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with GBC after surgical resection, TNM stage was the 
most important prognostic factor. Prognosis was also associated with extent of 
resection, histologic differentiation, and involvement of resection margin. In 
patients with positive resection margin, radiotherapy seems to prolong OS.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0b013e3182703409
PMID: 23188077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Mol Diagn Ther. 2012 Dec;16(6):389-99. doi: 10.1007/s40291-012-0010-7.

Genetic testing in combination with preventive donepezil treatment for patients 
with amnestic mild cognitive impairment: an exploratory economic evaluation of 
personalized medicine.

Djalalov S(1), Yong J, Beca J, Black S, Saposnik G, Musa Z, Siminovitch K, 
Moretti M, Hoch JS.

