we demonstrate the design, fabrication, and implementation of a novel, modular 
nerve-lengthening device, which allows the imposition of moderate tensile loads 
in parallel with existing scaffold-based tissue engineering strategies for nerve 
repair. This concept would enable nerve regeneration in two superposed regimes 
of nerve extension--traditional extension through axonal outgrowth into a 
scaffold and extension in intact regions of the proximal nerve, such as that 
occurring during growth or limb-lengthening. Self-sizing silicone nerve cuffs 
were fabricated to grip nerve stumps without slippage, and nerves were deformed 
by actuating a telescoping internal fixator. Poly(lactic co-glycolic) acid 
(PLGA) constructs mounted on the telescoping rods were apposed to the nerve 
stumps to guide axonal outgrowth. Neuronal cells were exposed to PLGA using 
direct contact and extract methods, and they exhibited no signs of cytotoxic 
effects in terms of cell morphology and viability. We confirmed the feasibility 
of implanting and actuating our device within a sciatic nerve gap and observed 
axonal outgrowth following device implantation. The successful fabrication and 
implementation of our device provides a novel method for examining mechanical 
influences on nerve regeneration.

DOI: 10.1089/ten.TEC.2012.0021
PMCID: PMC3629849
PMID: 23102114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Med Clin (Barc). 2013 Mar 16;140(6):241-5. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2012.06.027.  Epub 2012 Oct 25.

[Identification of people with chronic advanced diseases and need of palliative 
care in sociosanitary services: elaboration of the NECPAL CCOMS-ICO© tool].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez-Batiste X(1), Martínez-Muñoz M, Blay C, Amblàs J, Vila L, Costa X.

Author information:
(1)Observatorio QUALY-Centro Colaborador de la OMS para Programas Públicos de 
Cuidados Paliativos (CCOMS-ICO), Institut Català d'Oncologia (ICO), Cátedra de 
Cuidados Paliativos, Universitat de Vic, Vic, Barcelona, España. 
xgomez.WHOCC@iconcologia.net

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 2013 Mar 16;140(6):260-2.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Around 75% of the population in our country will die 
as a consequence of chronic advanced diseases. Advanced chronic care is one of 
the major challenges for public health systems. This study describes the 
development of a tool to identify patients with advanced chronic diseases and 
life limited prognosis that might require some type of palliative intervention 
in our health and social environment.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Spanish translation of PIG/GSF, cultural and clinical 
adaptation, identification of indicators of severity and progression -general 
and specific-; study of content validity and pre-test.
RESULTS: The NECPAL CCOMS-ICO(©) tool proposes a quantitative-qualitative, 
multifactorial, indicative and not dichotomous evaluation combining subjective 
perception assessment (surprise question) with demand and perceived needs; 
parameters of severity and progression, geriatric syndromes, emotional aspects, 
comorbidity and use of resources; and indicators for selected pathologies.
CONCLUSIONS: The NECPAL CCOMS-ICO(©) tool, feasible and easy to use, would 
identify patients with advanced chronic palliative needs of any cause, early and 
in all resources.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2012.06.027
PMID: 23103110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. BMJ. 2012 Oct 26;345:e6879. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e6879.

Vaccination of risk groups in England using the 13 valent pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccine: economic analysis.

Rozenbaum MH(1), van Hoek AJ, Fleming D, Trotter CL, Miller E, Edmunds WJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology and PharmacoEconomics, Department of Pharmacy, 
University of Groningen, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, 9713 AV Groningen, Netherlands. 
m.h.rozenbaum@rug.nl

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost effectiveness of vaccinating people with high 
risk conditions against invasive pneumococcal disease using the 13 valent 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation using a cohort model from the perspective of 
healthcare providers.
SETTING: England.
PARTICIPANTS: People aged 2 years and older at increased risk of invasive 
pneumococcal disease due to chronic kidney disease; splenic dysfunction; HIV 
infection; a compromised immune system; chronic heart, liver, or respiratory 
disease; or diabetes.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs, gains in life years and quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs), and incremental cost effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: Increasing indirect protection resulting from the vaccination programme 
of infants using the 13 valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine means that the 
burden of disease preventable by targeting high risk groups will diminish in 
time. Under base case assumptions--that is, no overall impact on non bacteraemic 
pneumonia in high risk groups and assuming the high risk vaccination programme 
would be launched two to three years after the infant programme--the incremental 
cost effectiveness ratio was estimated to be more than £30,000 (€37,216; 
$48,210) per QALY gained for most risk groups. If, however, the vaccine does not 
offer protection against non-bacteraemic pneumococcal pneumonia or the vaccine 
was introduced concomitantly with the infant 13 valent pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccination programme then vaccinating high risk people would (more) likely be 
cost effective. Sensitivity analyses showed that the cost effectiveness was 
particularly sensitive to assumed herd benefits and vaccine efficacy estimates.
CONCLUSION: Under base case assumptions it is unlikely that a pneumococcal 
vaccination programme aimed at risk groups could be considered cost effective. 
Uncertainty could be substantially reduced by establishing the effectiveness of 
the 13 valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine against non-bacteraemic 
pneumococcal pneumonia, particularly in at risk groups.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e6879
PMCID: PMC3482156
PMID: 23103369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available 
on request from the corresponding author) and declare: no support from any 
organisation for the submitted work; MHR was involved in this study while an 
employee at the University of Groningen. MHR joined Pfizer Netherlands on 1 
September 2011. Pfizer had no involvement in the development of the model nor 
any influence on the results, outcomes, and conclusions drawn or in the 
preparation of this paper; no other relationships or activities that could 
appear to have influenced the submitted work.


508. Qual Life Res. 2013 Sep;22(7):1685-96. doi: 10.1007/s11136-012-0296-2. Epub
2012  Oct 27.

Development and validation of a mental health subscale from the Quality of 
Well-Being Self-Administered.

Sarkin AJ(1), Groessl EJ, Carlson JA, Tally SR, Kaplan RM, Sieber WJ, Ganiats 
TG.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Center, University of California, San Diego, 9500 
Gilman Drive, La Jolla, CA 92093, USA. asarkin@ucsd.edu

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to create and validate a mental health 
subscale for the Quality of Well-Being Self-Administered (QWB-SA).
METHODS: The QWB-SA and other measures such as the Profile of Mood States 
(POMS), Medical Outcomes Study 36 Item Short Form (SF-36), EuroQOL 5D (EQ-5D), 
and Health Utilities Index Mark 2 (HUI) were administered to three samples: a 
general population (N = 3,844), a non-psychiatric medical population (N = 535), 
and a psychiatric population (N = 915). Independent expert ratings of which 
items represented the construct of mental health were used along with 
psychometric methods to develop and validate a 10-item QWB-SA mental health 
scale.
RESULTS: The mental health scale demonstrated high internal consistency 
(Cronbach's alpha = 0.827-0.842) and strong correlations with other measures of 
mental health, such as the POMS (r = -0.77), mental health scale from the SF-36 
(r = 0.72), EQ-5D mood item (r = 0.61), and HUI Emotion Scale (r = 0.59). It was 
not highly correlated with measures of physical health. Among the psychiatric 
population, the new mental health scale was moderately correlated with 
indicators of psychiatric problem severity.
CONCLUSIONS: It is now possible to report outcomes and relationships with mental 
health in studies that use the QWB-SA. This new mental health subscale can also 
be used with the large volume of previously collected data using the QWB-SA to 
examine the impact of illnesses and interventions on mental health-related 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-012-0296-2
PMCID: PMC4819419
PMID: 23104088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Demography. 2013 Apr;50(2):673-97. doi: 10.1007/s13524-012-0156-2.

Modeling and forecasting health expectancy: theoretical framework and 
application.

Majer IM(1), Stevens R, Nusselder WJ, Mackenbach JP, van Baal PH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. i.majer@erasmusmc.nl

Life expectancy continues to grow in most Western countries; however, a major 
remaining question is whether longer life expectancy will be associated with 
more or fewer life years spent with poor health. Therefore, complementing 
forecasts of life expectancy with forecasts of health expectancies is useful. To 
forecast health expectancy, an extension of the stochastic extrapolative models 
developed for forecasting total life expectancy could be applied, but instead of 
projecting total mortality and using regular life tables, one could project 
transition probabilities between health states simultaneously and use multistate 
life table methods. In this article, we present a theoretical framework for a 
multistate life table model in which the transition probabilities depend on age 
and calendar time. The goal of our study is to describe a model that projects 
transition probabilities by the Lee-Carter method, and to illustrate how it can 
be used to forecast future health expectancy with prediction intervals around 
the estimates. We applied the method to data on the Dutch population aged 55 and 
older, and projected transition probabilities until 2030 to obtain forecasts of 
life expectancy, disability-free life expectancy, and probability of compression 
of disability.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-012-0156-2
PMID: 23104206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Lifetime Data Anal. 2013 Jan;19(1):100-16. doi: 10.1007/s10985-012-9234-4.
Epub  2012 Oct 27.

Estimation of odds of concordance based on the Aalen additive model.

Martinussen T(1), Pipper CB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Copenhagen, Øster Farimagsgade 5B, 
1014 Copenhagen K, Denmark. tma@sund.ku.dk

The Cox regression model is often used when analyzing survival data as it 
provides a convenient way of summarizing covariate effects in terms of relative 
risks. The proportional hazards assumption may not hold, however. A typical 
violation of the assumption is time-changing covariate effects. Under such 
scenarios one may use more flexible models but the results from such models may 
be complicated to communicate and it is desirable to have simple measures of a 
treatment effect, say. In this paper we focus on the odds-of-concordance measure 
that was recently studied by Schemper et al. (Stat Med 28:2473-2489, 2009). They 
suggested to estimate this measure using weighted Cox regression (WCR). Although 
WCR may work in many scenarios no formal proof can be established. We suggest an 
alternative estimator of the odds-of-concordance measure based on the Aalen 
additive hazards model. In contrast to the WCR, one may derive the large sample 
properties for this estimator making formal inference possible. The estimator 
also allows for additional covariate effects.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-012-9234-4
PMID: 23104317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Breast Cancer. 2014 Sep;21(5):532-41. doi: 10.1007/s12282-012-0423-5. Epub
2012  Oct 27.

Cost-effectiveness analysis for breast cancer screening: double reading versus 
single + CAD reading.

Sato M(1), Kawai M, Nishino Y, Shibuya D, Ohuchi N, Ishibashi T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Imaging, Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine, 
2-1 Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai, Miyagi, 980-8575, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Computer-aided detection (CAD) increases breast cancer detection, 
but its cost-effectiveness is unknown for breast cancer screening in Japan. We 
aimed to determine whether screening mammography diagnosed by one physician 
using CAD is cost-effective when compared with the standard double reading by 
two physicians.
METHODS: We established our model with a decision tree and Markov model concept 
based on feasible screening and clinical pathways, combined with prognosis of 
the health state transition of breast cancer. Cost-effectiveness analysis 
between double reading by two readers and single reading with CAD by one reader 
was performed from a social perspective in terms of the expected cost, life 
expectancy and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). The hypothetical 
population comprised 50-year-old female breast cancer screening examinees. Only 
direct medical costs related to breast cancer screening and treatment were 
considered. One simulation cycle was 2 years, and the annual discount rate was 
3 %. Sensitivity analysis was performed to evaluate the robustness of the model 
and input data.
RESULTS: Single reading with CAD increased expected costs by 2,704 yen and 
extended life expectancy by 0.0087 years compared with double reading. The ICER 
was 310,805 yen per life year gained, which is below the threshold. Sensitivity 
analysis showed that the sensitivity and specificity of CAD and the number of 
breast cancer screening examinees greatly affected the results.
CONCLUSIONS: Single reading using CAD in mammography screening is more 
cost-effective than double reading, although the results are highly sensitive to 
the sensitivity and specificity of CAD and the numbers of examinees.

DOI: 10.1007/s12282-012-0423-5
PMID: 23104393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Herz. 2012 Dec;37(8):869-74. doi: 10.1007/s00059-012-3702-1.

[Artificial heart and heart transplantation].

[Article in German]

Moosdorf R(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Herz- und thorakale Gefäßchirurgie, UKGM - Universitätsklinik 
Marburg, Baldingerstr. 1, 35033, Marburg, Deutschland. 
moosdorf@med.uni-marburg.de

The advances in the treatment of many different heart diseases have on the one 
side led to a significant prolongation of life expectancy but have also 
contributed to an increase of patients with heart failure. This tendency is 
supported even more so by the demographic development of our population. The 
replacement of insufficient organs has always been in the focus of medical 
research. In the 1960's Shumway and Lower developed the technique of cardiac 
transplantation and also worked intensively on the treatment and diagnosis of 
rejection. However, it was Barnard who, in 1967 performed the first human 
cardiac transplantation. Other centers followed worldwide but the mortality was 
high and the new therapy was controversially discussed in many journals. By the 
introduction of cyclosporin as a new immunosuppressive agent in 1978, results 
improved rapidly and cardiac transplantation became an accepted therapeutic 
option for patients with end stage heart failure and also for children and 
newborns with congenital heart defects. Today, with newer immunosuppressive 
regimens and improved techniques, cardiac transplantation offers excellent 
results with a long-term survival of nearly 50% of patients after 15 years and 
among the pediatric population even after 20 years. However, the donor organ 
shortage as well as the increasing number of elderly patients with end stage 
heart failure has necessitated work on other alternatives. Neither stem cell 
transplantation nor xenotransplantation of animal organs are yet an option and 
there are still some obstacles to be overcome. In contrast, the development of 
so-called artificial hearts has made significant progress. While the first 
implants of totally artificial hearts were associated with many comorbidities 
and patients were seriously debilitated, new devices today offer a reasonable 
quality of life and long-term survival. Most of these systems are no longer 
replacing but mainly assisting the heart, which remains in place. These 
ventricular assist devices have been used as a bridge to transplantation for a 
long time and are now also offered as a destination therapy for patients who for 
a variety of reasons are no longer amenable to heart transplantation. Further 
miniaturization and a decrease of the costs will make these devices a realistic 
alternative to a sole medical therapy and studies have already proven the 
superiority in terms of survival as well as rehospitalization rates. However, at 
present they are still not an alternative to heart transplantation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-012-3702-1
PMID: 23104433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Palliat Med. 2013 Jun;27(6):553-61. doi: 10.1177/0269216312462272. Epub 2012
Oct  26.

Similarities and differences between continuous sedation until death and 
euthanasia - professional caregivers' attitudes and experiences: a focus group 
study.

Anquinet L(1), Raus K, Sterckx S, Smets T, Deliens L, Rietjens JA.

Author information:
(1)End-of-Life Care Research Group, Ghent University and Vrije Universiteit 
Brussel, Brussels, Belgium. Livia.Anquinet@vub.ac.be

Comment in
    Palliat Med. 2014 Apr;28(4):367-8.
    Palliat Med. 2014 Apr;28(4):369.

BACKGROUND: According to various guidelines about continuous sedation until 
death, this practice can and should be clearly distinguished from euthanasia, 
which is legalized in Belgium.
AIM: To explore professional caregivers' perceptions of the similarities and 
differences between continuous sedation until death and euthanasia.
DESIGN: Qualitative data were gathered through focus groups. Questions pertained 
to participants' perceptions of continuous sedation. The focus groups were 
recorded and transcribed verbatim. Analyses were conducted by a 
multidisciplinary research team using constant comparison analyses.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: We did four focus groups at Ghent University Hospital: two 
with physicians (n = 4 and n = 4) and two with nurses (n = 4 and n = 9). The 
participants could participate if they were ever involved in the use of 
continuous sedation until death.
RESULTS: Although the differences and similarities between continuous sedation 
until death and euthanasia were not specifically addressed in the questions 
addressed in the focus groups, it emerged as an important theme in the 
participants' accounts. Many caregivers elaborated on the differences between 
both practices, particularly with regard to patients' preferences and requests, 
decision-making and physicians' intentions. However, some stated that the 
distinction between the two sometimes becomes blurred, especially when the 
sedating medication is increased disproportionally or when sedation is used for 
patients with a longer life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: The differences and similarities between continuous sedation until 
death and euthanasia is an issue for several Flemish professional caregivers in 
their care for unbearably suffering patients at the end of life. Although 
guidelines strictly distinguish both practices, this may not always be the case 
in Flemish clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216312462272
PMID: 23104513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Clin Trials. 2013 Feb;10(1):160-9. doi: 10.1177/1740774512461858. Epub 2012
Oct  25.

Conducting the ACTIVE randomized trial in hospice care: keys to success.

Kruse RL(1), Parker Oliver D, Wittenberg-Lyles E, Demiris G.

Author information:
(1)Curtis W. and Ann H. Long Department of Family and Community Medicine, 
University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65212, USA. kruser@health.missouri.edu

BACKGROUND: Untreated pain is common for patients at the end of life. Informal 
caregivers, often family or friends of patients, are responsible for working 
with hospice staff to provide pain management. Interdisciplinary team meetings 
conducted in hospices every 2 weeks provide an opportunity for hospice staff to 
communicate about pain management with informal caregivers of hospice patients.
PURPOSE: We present challenges, solutions, and keys strategies for carrying out 
a randomized trial in the hospice setting.
METHODS: We are conducting the Assessing Caregivers for Team Intervention 
through Video Encounters (ACTIVE) study to determine whether regular 
videoconferencing between hospice patients' informal caregivers and the hospice 
care team alters caregivers' perceptions of pain management and patients' pain. 
Participants must be primary caregivers for a hospice patient, at least 18 years 
of age, capable of providing informed consent, and have access to a computer 
with a high-speed Internet connection or a telephone. We randomized caregivers 
to participate in biweekly team meetings through video or phone conferencing 
(intervention) or to receive usual care from the hospice. All patients receive 
standard hospice care regardless of the group assignment of their informal 
caregiver.
RESULTS: As of 1 July 2012, there have been 1038 new admissions to the 
participating hospices. Of 391 cases in which no contact was made, 233 patients 
had died or had life expectancy less than 14 days. Home visits were made to 271 
interested and eligible caregivers; 249 caregivers of 233 patients were randomly 
assigned to the usual care or intervention arm. Enrollment is on pace to meet 
recruitment goals. Lessons Learned Thorough pilot testing of instruments and 
procedures helped us overcome barriers to conducting research in this vulnerable 
population. Keys to success included obtaining support from hospice medical 
directors, including hospice staff in study preparation, minimizing the burden 
on hospice staff, housing research staff in each participating hospice, using 
newsletters to enhance communication, developing and maintaining a detailed 
procedural manual, producing regular data quality reports, developing a secure 
site to facilitate coding videos for qualitative studies, and holding regular 
teleconferences with key staff.
LIMITATIONS: Late enrollment of many patients in hospice left little to no time 
for their caregivers to take part in the intervention. Assisting caregivers of 
patients with very short life expectancy may require different methods.
CONCLUSIONS: The challenges of conducting randomized trials with hospice 
patients and caregivers can be addressed with appropriate study design, 
well-tested research methods, and proactive monitoring of any issues or 
problems.

DOI: 10.1177/1740774512461858
PMCID: PMC3554844
PMID: 23104974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 May;68(5):530-8. doi:
10.1093/gerona/gls219.  Epub 2012 Oct 26.

Calorie restriction does not increase short-term or long-term protein synthesis.

Miller BF(1), Robinson MM, Reuland DJ, Drake JC, Peelor FF 3rd, Bruss MD, 
Hellerstein MK, Hamilton KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Exercise Science, Colorado State University, Fort 
Collins CO 80523-1582, USA. benjamin.f.miller@colostate.edu

Increased protein synthesis is proposed as a mechanism of life-span extension 
during caloric restriction (CR). We hypothesized that CR does not increase 
protein synthesis in all tissues and protein fractions and that any increased 
protein synthesis with CR would be due to an increased anabolic effect of 
feeding. We used short- (4 hours) and long-term (6 weeks) methods to measure in 
vivo protein synthesis in lifelong ad libitum (AL) and CR mice. We did not 
detect an acute effect of feeding on protein synthesis while liver mitochondrial 
protein synthesis was lower in CR mice versus AL mice. Mammalian target of 
rapamycin (mTOR) signaling was repressed in liver and heart from CR mice 
indicative of energetic stress and suppression of growth. Our main findings were 
that CR did not increase rates of mixed protein synthesis over the long term or 
in response to acute feeding, and protein synthesis was maintained despite 
decreased mTOR signaling.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls219
PMCID: PMC3693598
PMID: 23105041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Indian J Clin Biochem. 2000 Aug;15(1):11-6. doi: 10.1007/BF02873541.

Platelet protein damage by free radicals and glycationin vitro: The pathological 
consequences.

Goswami K(1), Bhatla BD, Shankar R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry Institute of Medical Sciences, Banaras Hindu 
University, 221005 Varanasi.

Modification of platelet proteins by free radicals and glycation has been 
studied in the present work, as anin vitro model. The results of the two 
parameters, SDS-PAGE and carbonylation study are quite corroborative. We 
observed that the inducers like ferrous sulphate, ascorbate (mainly in 
supraphysiological concentration) and glucose attack the protein in a dose 
dependent manner, of which ferrous sulphate is most potent. Proteins from aged 
and degenerative conditions like malignancy and diabetes mellitus have suffered 
greater damage than normal adult and foetal proteins. The individual life 
expectancy in terms of biological versus chronological age may also be worked 
out from the individual stress level.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02873541
PMCID: PMC3453542
PMID: 23105231


517. Indian J Clin Biochem. 2003 Jul;18(2):27-33. doi: 10.1007/BF02867364.

Determination of cancer antigen 125 in ovarian carcinoma.

Thakur V(1), Anand AK, Mukherjee U, Ghosh D.

Author information:
(1)Biochemistry Unit, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Batra Hospital & 
Medical Research centre, 1, Tughlakabad Institutional Area, MB Road, 110062 New 
Delhi, India.

Appropriate therapeutic measures can improve the life expectancy of patients 
with ovarian malignancy. There has been a pressing need for serodiagnostic 
assays to enable, the close patient monitoring. Cancer Antigen 125 (CA125) has 
been described as a useful marker in patient monitoring for ovarian malignancy. 
Keeping this in view, the present study was planned. 40 consecutive female 
patients of ovarian carcinoma (mean age 52.4±10.7 years) were selected for serum 
CA125 analysis during the period of year 1995-2001. The tumour marker 
concentration was compared with histologic types of ovarian tumour and the FIGO 
staging of the disease. 25 healthy females (mean age 35.2-10.4 years) served as 
control. Mean serum CA125 concentrations in patients with papillary serous 
adenocarcinoma(Mean±%CV 1571±121.5 U/ml) was much higher than patients with 
mucinous adenocarcinoma(775±78U/ml). Mean serum CA125 concentration in 
endometrioid carcinoma was very high(2853±136 U/ml). The patient with clear cell 
carcinoma however had shown moderate increase(60 U/ml). No correlation was found 
between serum CA125 concentration and the FIGO staging of disease.Quantitation 
of CA125 was most helpful in monitoring the response of treatment and followup 
of the patients after completion of their treatment. Posttherapeutically its 
concentration showed more than 50% reduction in almost all (91.4%) patients 
(P<0.001). Importantly these patients had also shown significant regression of 
the disease clinically and radiologically. 8.6% of patients had shown static or 
increase in serum CA125 concentration which was associated with either 
clinically static or progressive disease. Recurrence of the disease was noted in 
patients who had shown increase in serum CA125 concentration (biochemical 
recurrence) in the followupHowever, in our test population biochemical 
recurrence(increase in serum marker concentration) preceded the clinical or 
radiological recurrence by an average of 6.5 months.Kaplan meier survival 
analysis for evaluation of overall survival in our test subjects showed an 
overall survival of 32% at one year and median survival of 9 months with 
confidence interval of 6.34 to 11.66. We conclude that serum CA125 is a useful 
marker for monitoring the treatment and predicting an early recurrence of the 
disease in ovarian carcinoma patients. A study in larger number of patients is 
needed to define its exact role in the management of the carcinoma ovary.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02867364
PMCID: PMC3453871
PMID: 23105389


518. Indian J Clin Biochem. 2003 Jul;18(2):197-205. doi: 10.1007/BF02867387.

Oxidant and antioxidant status in vegetarians and fish eaters.

Poornima K(1), Cariappa M, Asha K, Kedilaya HP, Nandini M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Centre For Basic Sciences, Kasturba Medical 
College, 575001 Mangalore.

An adequate antioxidant reserve which is usually present in a vegetarian diet is 
associated with higher life expectancy. On the other hand habitual consumption 
of fish is associated with lower risk of cardiovascular diseases which is 
attributed to the polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) present in it. However the 
PUFA are readily susceptible to oxidation leading to the formation of free 
radicals which is known to be involved in the causation of several diseases.The 
oxidant-antioxidant status of 23 vegetarians and 22 fish eaters was studied by 
determining the plasma lipid peroxides measured as malondialdehyde (MDA) and the 
antioxidants, viz. glutathione (GSH), ascorbic acid, ceruloplasmin and uric 
acid.Results show that the ascorbic acid values were significantly higher in 
vegetarians. In addition, MDA correlated negatively with ascorbic acid only in 
vegetarians. However, correlation of MDA with glutathione showed a significant 
negative correlation only in fish eaters. There was no statistically significant 
difference in the MDA, GSH, ceruloplasmin and uric acid levels. The mechanism 
behind these findings are not clear and needs to be explored.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02867387
PMCID: PMC3453877
PMID: 23105412


519. Acta Neurol Scand Suppl. 2012;(194):19-28. doi: 10.1111/ane.12016.

Zonisamide: its pharmacology, efficacy and safety in clinical trials.

Brodie MJ(1), Ben-Menachem E, Chouette I, Giorgi L.

Author information:
(1)Epilepsy Unit, Western Infirmary, Dumbarton Rd., Glasgow, Scotland. 
mjb2k@clinmed.gla.ac.uk

Zonisamide is a benzisoxazole derivative, chemically unrelated to other 
antiepileptic drugs, that appears to have multiple mechanisms of action, 
including inhibition of Na(+) channels and reduction of T-type Ca(2+) currents. 
It is currently licensed in Europe and the USA for adjunctive treatment of 
partial seizures in adults, and in Europe as monotherapy for treatment of 
partial seizures in adults with newly diagnosed epilepsy. Zonisamide displays 
predictable, dose-dependent pharmacokinetics and has a half-life of ~60 h, 
allowing once- or twice-daily administration. It has a low potential for 
interactions with other medications, including oral contraceptives. The clinical 
efficacy of adjunctive zonisamide therapy has been established in four pivotal, 
phase III, randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled trials, which together 
included approximately 850 patients, aged 12-77 years, with refractory partial 
epilepsy. In all four trials, zonisamide 300-600 mg/day resulted in significant 
reductions in median total seizure rates vs placebo, and zonisamide was 
generally well tolerated; the most frequently reported adverse events being 
somnolence, dizziness and anorexia/weight loss. Subanalysis of the primary 
European trial indicated that zonisamide was effective when administered as 
first-line adjunctive treatment, and a long-term extension to the same trial 
demonstrated that the efficacy and safety/tolerability of adjunctive zonisamide 
was sustained for up to 36 months. Once-daily monotherapy with zonisamide 
(200-500 mg/day) has been shown to be non-inferior to, and as well tolerated as, 
twice-daily monotherapy with controlled-release carbamazepine (400-1200 mg/day) 
in adults with newly diagnosed partial epilepsy. Zonisamide has also been shown 
to have favourable long-term retention rates, an important indication of its 
overall effectiveness.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/ane.12016
PMID: 23106522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Eur J Clin Invest. 2013 Jan;43(1):27-33. doi: 10.1111/eci.12011. Epub 2012
Oct  28.

Comorbidities and survival in obstructive sleep apnoea beyond the age of 50.

Marrone O(1), Lo Bue A, Salvaggio A, Dardanoni G, Insalaco G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedicine and Molecular Immunology, National Research Council, 
Palermo, Italy. marrone@ibim.cnr.it

BACKGROUND: Although mortality risk associated with obstructive sleep apnoea 
(OSA) tends to disappear from the age of 50, it has been suggested that OSA 
treatment by continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) improves survival even 
in older subjects. Life expectancy of subjects with several diseases is worse if 
OSA coexists. The objectives of this study were to evaluate the relevance of 
comorbidities in the relationship between OSA and mortality, and in the effect 
of CPAP on survival, in subjects ≥ 50 years old.
METHODS: Data from 810 patients studied by polysomnography for suspected OSA 
between 1991 and 2000 were retrospectively evaluated. In 2009, state of survival 
and use of CPAP were enquired. Three hundred and thirteen subjects were < 50 and 
497 were ≥ 50 years at diagnosis.
RESULTS: Age and comorbidities, but not apnoea/hypopnoea index (AHI) or lowest 
nocturnal arterial oxygen saturation (Nadir SaO(2)), predicted mortality in the 
whole sample. Nadir SaO(2) was related to mortality among the younger subjects 
without comorbidities (P = 0·01), but not among the older subjects. In the older 
patients with an AHI > 30 CPAP treatment was associated with a better survival 
only if comorbidities coexisted.
CONCLUSIONS: Unlike in younger subjects, in subjects ≥ 50 years old, 
comorbidities do not mask an effect of OSA on mortality. Among OSA subjects ≥ 50 
years old, comorbidities could separate those who may expect an improvement in 
survival with CPAP treatment from those who may not. Possibly, after the age of 
50, OSA per se does not affect survival, but worsens prognosis of subjects with 
coexisting diseases.

© 2012 The Authors. European Journal of Clinical Investigation © 2012 Stichting 
European Society for Clinical Investigation Journal Foundation.

DOI: 10.1111/eci.12011
PMID: 23106598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Aging Cell. 2013 Feb;12(1):93-101. doi: 10.1111/acel.12025. Epub 2012 Dec 2.

A metabolic signature predicts biological age in mice.

Tomás-Loba A(1), Bernardes de Jesus B, Mato JM, Blasco MA.

Author information:
(1)Telomeres and Telomerase Group, Molecular Oncology Program, Spanish National 
Cancer Research Centre (CNIO), Melchor Fernández Almagro 3, Madrid, E-28029, 
Spain.

Our understanding of the mechanisms by which aging is produced is still very 
limited. Here, we have determined the sera metabolite profile of 117 wild-type 
mice of different genetic backgrounds ranging from 8 to 129 weeks of age. This 
has allowed us to define a robust metabolomic signature and a derived 
metabolomic score that reliably/accurately predicts the age of wild-type mice. 
In the case of telomerase-deficient mice, which have a shortened lifespan, their 
metabolomic score predicts older ages than expected. Conversely, in the case of 
mice that overexpress telomerase, their metabolic score corresponded to younger 
ages than expected. Importantly, telomerase reactivation late in life by using a 
TERT-based gene therapy recently described by us significantly reverted the 
metabolic profile of old mice to that of younger mice, further confirming an 
anti-aging role for telomerase. Thus, the metabolomic signature associated with 
natural mouse aging accurately predicts aging produced by telomere shortening, 
suggesting that natural mouse aging is in part produced by presence of short 
telomeres. These results indicate that the metabolomic signature is associated 
with the biological age rather than with the chronological age. This constitutes 
one of the first aging-associated metabolomic signatures in a mammalian 
organism.

© 2012 The Authors Aging Cell © 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/Anatomical Society 
of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12025
PMCID: PMC3552107
PMID: 23107558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Healthc Pap. 2012;12(3):30-4. doi: 10.12927/hcpap.2012.23086.

50 years of physical growth and impressive technological advances unmatched by 
health human resources reform and cultural change.

Scott GW(1).

Author information:
(1)Graham Scott Strategies Inc.

The year 1962 was pre-medicare. The public was concerned about access and 
individual affordability of care. Funding involved public or private 
responsibility and the role of government. Physicians, the most influential 
providers, were concerned that government funding would result in the loss of 
their independence and their becoming state employees. The retrospective 
analysis "Looking Back 50 Years in Hospital Administration" by Graham and 
Sibbald is arresting as it underlines just how much progress we have made in 
what could be termed "hardware" in support of healthcare policy and hospital 
administration. From this perspective, the progress has been eye opening, given 
the advent of universal healthcare, the advancement in our physical facilities, 
the development of high-quality diagnostic equipment, the explosion of new 
research centres and new and complex clinical procedures. The development of 
this hardware has given our providers better weapons and contributed to a 
remarkable improvement in life expectancy. But progress in health administration 
and policy management involves more than hardware. If the hardware constitutes 
the tools, then the "software" of the healthcare system involves the human 
resources and the culture change that must be positioned to make maximum use of 
the hardware. In 2062, looking back at the 2012 experience, the legacy test may 
be whether we dealt with health human resources and culture change at a rate 
that matched our progress in hardware.

DOI: 10.12927/hcpap.2012.23086
PMID: 23107903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. New Microbiol. 2012 Oct;35(4):359-75. Epub 2012 Oct 1.

Antiretroviral molecules and cardiovascular diseases.

Gibellini D(1), Borderi M, Clò A, Morini S, Miserocchi A, Bon I, Re MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology and Oncological Sciences, University of Bologna, 
Bologna, Italy. davide.gibellini@unibo.it

Antiretroviral therapy has effectively tackled HIV replication and prevented the 
development of AIDS-related complications in the majority of HIV-positive 
patients. This pharmacological approach has dramatically increased the life 
expectancy of HIV-positive subjects transforming HIV infection into a chronic 
disease. Notwithstanding this major improvement in HIV disease management, 
several HIV-positive patients show an earlier and significant onset of aging 
related chronic conditions such as cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, 
diabetes and neoplasias with respect to uninfected individuals. In particular, 
cardiovascular diseases are associated with both HIV infection and 
antiretroviral treatment, and represent major clinical complications in 
HIV-positive patients. Here, we discuss the interaction between antiretroviral 
therapy and cardiovascular system in HIV-positive patients focusing on the 
antiretroviral-related mechanisms involved in cardiovascular alterations.

PMID: 23109004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Orthop Surg. 2012 Nov;4(4):211-5. doi: 10.1111/os.12001.

Total joint arthroplasty in human immunodeficiency virus positive patients.

Swensen S(1), Schwarzkopf R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, New York University Hospital for Joint 
Diseases, New York, New York, USA.

Recent advances in the medical management of patients with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) have led to improvement in their life expectancy. 
The growing numbers of HIV-positive patients are now living long enough to 
develop end-stage arthritis, as well as other long-term musculoskeletal 
complications of HIV infection and treatment. This has resulted in an increased 
demand for total joint arthroplasty among these individuals. However, the safety 
and outcomes of such procedures are frequently questioned in published reports. 
Although increased complication rates have often been reported, most studies 
have reported on joint arthroplasties in HIV patients with hemophilia. The most 
widely reported complications in both HIV-negative and positive hemophiliac 
patients are aseptic loosening and postoperative infection. A possible 
relationship between the rate of these complications and cluster of 
differentiation (CD4) lymphocyte count has also been proposed. In addition to 
hemophilia, other factors frequently comorbid with HIV infection, such as 
intravenous drug use, can further complicate the clinical outcomes of these 
individuals following total joint replacement procedures. Physicians treating 
HIV positive patients must remain aware of the risks and outcomes of total joint 
surgery in this group when counseling them on treatment options.

© 2012 Tianjin Hospital and Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/os.12001
PMCID: PMC6583138
PMID: 23109304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Eur J Public Health. 2012 Dec;22(6):752. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cks141. Epub
2012  Oct 28.

The enigma of Russian waves and not so bad prospects.

Vlassov V.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cks141
PMID: 23109662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Bull World Health Organ. 2012 Oct 1;90(10):764-72. doi:
10.2471/BLT.11.100750.  Epub 2012 Aug 20.

Mortality measures from sample-based surveillance: evidence of the 
epidemiological transition in Viet Nam.

Hoa NP(1), Rao C, Hoy DG, Hinh ND, Chuc NT, Ngo DA.

Author information:
(1)Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.

OBJECTIVE: To report methods and results from a national sample mortality 
surveillance programme implemented in Viet Nam in 2009.
METHODS: A national sample of 192 communes located in 16 provinces and covering 
a population of approximately 2.6 million was selected using multi-stage cluster 
sampling. Deaths for 2009 were identified from several local data sources. 
Record reconciliation and capture-recapture methods were used to compile data 
and assess completeness of the records. Life tables were computed using reported 
and adjusted age-specific death rates. Each death was followed up by verbal 
autopsy to ascertain the probable cause(s) of death. Underlying causes were 
certified and coded according to international guidelines.
FINDINGS: A total of 9921 deaths were identified in the sample population. 
Completeness of death records was estimated to be 81%. Adjusted life 
expectancies at birth were 70.4 and 78.7 years for males and females, 
respectively. Stroke was the leading cause of death in both sexes. Other 
prominent causes were road traffic accidents, cancers and HIV infection in 
males, and cardiovascular conditions, pneumonia and diabetes in females.
CONCLUSION: Viet Nam is undergoing the epidemiological transition. Although data 
are relatively complete, they could be further improved through strengthened 
local collaboration. Medical certification for deaths in hospitals, and shorter 
recall periods for verbal autopsy interviews would improve cause of death 
ascertainment.

OBJECTIF: Rapporter les méthodes et les résultats d'un programme national de 
surveillance de la mortalité basée sur l’échantillonnage, mis en place au 
Viet Nam en 2009.
MÉTHODES: Un échantillon national de 192 communes situées dans 16 provinces et 
couvrant une population d'environ 2,6 millions de personnes a été sélectionné 
par échantillonnage en grappes à plusieurs degrés. Pour l’année 2009, les décès 
ont été identifiés sur la base de plusieurs sources d’informations locales. Le 
recoupement des dossiers ainsi que des méthodes de capture-recapture ont été 
utilisés pour compiler les informations et évaluer l'exhaustivité des dossiers. 
Les tables de mortalité ont été calculées en utilisant les taux de mortalité 
présentés et ajustés par âge. Chaque décès a été suivi d'une autopsie orale pour 
déterminer la ou les causes probables de la mort. Les causes sous-jacentes ont 
été certifiées et codées selon les normes internationales.
RÉSULTATS: Un nombre total de 9921 décès a été identifié dans la population de 
l'échantillon. L’exhaustivité des dossiers de décès a été estimée à 81%. Les 
espérances de vie à la naissance étaient, après ajustement, de respectivement 
70,4 et 78,7 ans pour les hommes et les femmes. L’accident vasculaire cérébral 
représentait la principale cause de décès pour les deux sexes. D'autres causes 
importantes comprenaient les accidents de la route, les cancers et l’infection 
par le VIH chez les hommes, et les maladies cardiovasculaires, la pneumonie et 
le diabète chez les femmes.
CONCLUSION: Le Viet Nam est en pleine transition épidémiologique. Bien que les 
données soient relativement complètes, elles pourraient être encore améliorées 
par une collaboration locale renforcée. Une certification médicale des décès 
dans les hôpitaux ainsi que des délais de rappel plus courts pour les entretiens 
d'autopsie orale permettraient d'améliorer la constatation de la cause de la 
mort.

OBJECTIVO: Informar de métodos y resultados de un programa nacional de 
vigilancia de la mortalidad mediante muestras realizado en Viet Nam en 2009.
MÉTODOS: Se seleccionó una muestra nacional de 192 municipios localizados en 16 
provincias y que abarcan una población de aproximadamente 2,6 millones mediante 
muestreo por conglomerados multietápico. Las muertes de 2009 se identificaron 
por varias fuentes de datos locales. Se emplearon métodos de captura-recaptura y 
reconciliación de registros para recopilar datos y evaluar la integridad de los 
registros. Se computaron las tablas de mortalidad mediante tasas de mortalidad 
por edad registradas y ajustadas. Cada muerte iba acompañada de una autopsia 
verbal para establecer la(s) probable(s) causa(s) de la muerte. Las causas 
subyacentes se certificaron y codificaron según las directrices internacionales.
RESULTADOS: Se identificó un total de 9921 muertes en la población del muestreo. 
Se calculó que la integridad de los registros de mortalidad fue del 81%. La 
esperanza de vida ajustada al nacer fue de 70,4 y 78,7 años para hombres y 
mujeres, respectivamente. Los accidentes cerebrovasculares fueron la principal 
causa en ambos sexos. Otras causas destacadas fueron los accidentes de tránsito, 
el cáncer y la infección por el VIH en hombres, y las enfermedades 
cardiovasculares, la neumonía y la diabetes en las mujeres.
CONCLUSIÓN: Viet Nam está experimentando una transición epidemiológica. Aunque 
los datos son relativamente completos, podrían mejorarse considerablemente 
mediante una mayor colaboración local. Los certificados médicos de las 
defunciones en los hospitales y periodos recordatorios más breves para las 
entrevistas de las autopsias verbales mejorarían la causa de la comprobación de 
las muertes.

الغرض: تقديم تقرير عن طرق ونتائج البرنامج الوطني لترصد معدل وفيات العينة الذي تم 
تنفيذه في فييت نام في عام 2009.
الطريقة: تم انتقاء عينة وطنية مؤلفة من 192 مجتمعاً محلياً تقع في 16 مقاطعة وتغطي 
حوالي 2.6 مليون نسمة باستخدام أخذ العينات العنقودي متعدد المراحل. وتم تحديد 
حالات الوفاة لعام 2009 من مصادر البيانات المحلية المتعددة. وتم استخدام تسوية 
السجلات وطرق الالتقاط-الاسترداد لتجميع البيانات وتقييم اكتمال السجلات. وتم حوسبة 
جداول الحياة باستخدام معدلات الوفاة التي تم الإبلاغ عنها والخاصة بالسن المصحح. 
وتم متابعة كل حالة وفاة من خلال التشريح الشفوي للتحقق من السبب (الأسباب) 
المحتملة للوفاة. وتم توثيق أسبابها الأساسية وترميزها وفقاً للمبادئ التوجيهية 
الدولية.
النتائج: تم تحديد ما إجماليه 9921 حالة وفاة في العينة السكانية. وتم تقدير اكتمال 
سجلات الوفاة بنسبة 81 %. وبلغ متوسط سنوات العمر المصححة عند الميلاد 70.4 سنة 
و78.7 سنة للذكور والإناث، على التوالي. وكانت السكتة الدماغية السبب الرئيسي 
للوفاة في كلا الجنسين. وكان من بين الأسباب الرئيسية الأخرى حوادث المرور وأمراض 
السرطان وعدوى فيروس العوز المناعي البشري لدى الذكور والحالات القلبية الوعائية 
والالتهاب الرئوي وداء السكري لدى الإناث.
الاستنتاج: تشهد فييت نام تغيراً في الأوضاع الوبائية. وبرغم اكتمال البيانات 
نسبياً، إلا أنه يمكن تحسينها من خلال تعزيز التعاون المحلي. ومن شأن التوثيق الطبي 
لحالات الوفاة في المستشفيات وقصر فترات الاستدعاء لإجراء مقابلات التشريح الشفوي 
أن يؤدي إلى تحسين سبب التحقق من الوفاة.

目的: 报告2009 年在越南实施的全国抽样死亡率监测方案的方法和结果。
方法: 使用多阶段整群抽样,选择分布在16 个省,覆盖人口约260 万的192 个市镇的全国抽样。由数个本地数据源确定2009 
年的死亡人数。使用记录对账和获取-再获取方法编译数据并评估记录的完整性。使用报告和调整后的特定年龄死亡率计算生命表。每例死亡之后执行口头尸检,以确定可能的死因。按照国际准则,对根本原因进行认证和编码。
结果: 抽样人口中确定共有9921 例死亡。死亡记录的完整性估计为81%。男性和女性调整后的出生时预期寿命分别为70.4 年和78.7 
年。中风是导致男女死亡的主要原因。其他突出的原因:男性为道路交通事故、癌症和艾滋病感染;女性为心血管疾病、肺炎和糖尿病。
结论: 越南正在经历流行病学转变。虽然数据相对完整,但可以通过加强地方合作进一步完善。医院中死亡的医学证明和更短的口头尸检面谈回忆期将会改进对死因的确认。

ЦЕЛЬ: Представить отчет по методам и результатам национальной программы 
выборочного эпиднадзора за смертностью, осуществленной во Вьетнаме в 2009 году.
МЕТОДЫ: Было проведено национальное выборочное исследование 192 общин, 
расположенных в 16 провинциях, с приблизительной численностью населения 
2,6 миллиона человек с применением многоступенчатой групповой выборки. Из 
нескольких местных источников данных были выявлены смертельные исходы за 
2009 год. Применялись методы соотнесения данных и двойного охвата в целях 
сопоставления данных и оценки полноты задокументированных данных. Были 
рассчитаны таблицы вероятности дожития с использованием зарегистрированных и 
скорректированных повозрастных показателей смертности. Каждая смерть 
сопровождалась опросом об обстоятельствах смерти в целях установления вероятных 
причин(-ы) смерти. Истинные причины были освидетельствованы и зашифрованы в 
соответствии с международными правилами.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: В выборочной совокупности выявлена 9921 смерть. Полнота регистрации 
количества смертей оценена в 81 %. Уточненная вероятная продолжительность жизни 
при рождении составляла 70,4 и 78,7 лет у мужчин и женщин соответственно. 
Инсульт являлся основной причиной смерти у обоих полов. Другими значимыми 
причинами являлись дорожно-транспортные происшествия, онкологические заболевания 
и ВИЧ-инфекции у мужчин, и сердечно-сосудистые заболевания, пневмония и диабет у 
женщин.
ВЫВОД: Вьетнам подвержен эпидемиологическому переходу. Несмотря на относительную 
полноту данных, они могли быть далее улучшены через укрепление сотрудничества на 
местном уровне. Медицинское освидетельствование смертей в лечебных учреждениях и 
более короткие периоды проведения опросов об обстоятельствах смерти улучшили бы 
установление причины смерти.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.11.100750
PMCID: PMC3471050
PMID: 23109744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. PLoS One. 2012;7(10):e47828. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047828. Epub 2012
Oct  23.

A large extension to HIV-1 Gag, like Pol, has negative impacts on virion 
assembly.

Haraguchi H(1), Noda T, Kawaoka Y, Morikawa Y.

Author information:
(1)Kitasato Institute for Life Sciences, Kitasato University, Minato-ku, Tokyo, 
Japan.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2015;10(1):e0117765.

The GagPol protein of HIV-1 harbors viral enzymes, such as protease (PR), 
reverse transcriptase, and integrase, that are all crucial for virion 
infectivity. Previous studies have suggested that expression of GagPol alone 
does not produce viral particles and that the budding defect is caused by the 
presence of the Pol region. However, it has remained unknown why GagPol fails to 
produce viral particles. We show here that HIV-1 GagPol is incapable of membrane 
binding and subsequent particle assembly. Our confocal data indicated that, 
despite full N-myristoylation, GagPol protein failed to target plasma membrane 
with diffuse distribution in the cytoplasm. Membrane flotation analysis 
confirmed these findings. Progressive C-terminal truncation of GagPol to give 
GagPR allowed for plasma membrane targeting but still not for particle 
production. Conversely, the C-terminal addition of a noncognate protein, such as 
ß-galactosidase or 4 tandem GFP, to Gag impaired the membrane affinity, 
indicating that the Pol region, a large extension to Gag, inhibits membrane 
binding in the context of GagPol. The addition of the 10 N-terminal amino acids 
of Fyn kinase [Fyn(10)], a tight membrane-binding signal, conferred plasma 
membrane targeting on GagPol, but the Fyn(10)GagPol did not produce viral 
particles. The defect in particle budding was not rescued by the introduction of 
the PTAP motif, which is responsible for a late stage of viral particle budding. 
Rather, electron microscopy suggested that the budding defect of GagPR occurred 
at an early stage of particle morphogenesis. Our data, which were consistent 
with previous observations, demonstrate the defects of GagPol in membrane 
binding and particle assembly.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0047828
PMCID: PMC3479142
PMID: 23110110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


528. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2012 Oct 30;13:213. doi: 10.1186/1471-2474-13-213.

The cost effectiveness of teriparatide as a first-line treatment for 
glucocorticoid-induced and postmenopausal osteoporosis patients in Sweden.

Murphy DR(1), Smolen LJ, Klein TM, Klein RW.

Author information:
(1)Medical Decision Modeling Inc, 8909 Purdue Road, Suite 550, Indianapolis, IN 
46268, USA. drm@mdm-inc.com

BACKGROUND: This paper presents the model and results to evaluate the use of 
teriparatide as a first-line treatment of severe postmenopausal osteoporosis 
(PMO) and glucocorticoid-induced osteoporosis (GIOP). The study's objective was 
