
Schmidt TH(1), Kandt C.

Author information:
(1)Computational Structural Biology, Department of Life Science Informatics 
B-IT, Life & Medical Sciences (LIMES) Institute, University of Bonn, 
Dahlmannstr. 2, 53113 Bonn, Germany.

At the beginning of each molecular dynamics membrane simulation stands the 
generation of a suitable starting structure which includes the working steps of 
aligning membrane and protein and seamlessly accommodating the protein in the 
membrane. Here we introduce two efficient and complementary methods based on 
pre-equilibrated membrane patches, automating these steps. Using a voxel-based 
cast of the coarse-grained protein, LAMBADA computes a hydrophilicity 
profile-derived scoring function based on which the optimal rotation and 
translation operations are determined to align protein and membrane. Employing 
an entirely geometrical approach, LAMBADA is independent from any precalculated 
data and aligns even large membrane proteins within minutes on a regular 
workstation. LAMBADA is the first tool performing the entire alignment process 
automatically while providing the user with the explicit 3D coordinates of the 
aligned protein and membrane. The second tool is an extension of the InflateGRO 
method addressing the shortcomings of its predecessor in a fully automated 
workflow. Determining the exact number of overlapping lipids based on the area 
occupied by the protein and restricting expansion, compression and energy 
minimization steps to a subset of relevant lipids through automatically 
calculated and system-optimized operation parameters, InflateGRO2 yields optimal 
lipid packing and reduces lipid vacuum exposure to a minimum preserving as much 
of the equilibrated membrane structure as possible. Applicable to atomistic and 
coarse grain structures in MARTINI format, InflateGRO2 offers high accuracy, 
fast performance, and increased application flexibility permitting the easy 
preparation of systems exhibiting heterogeneous lipid composition as well as 
embedding proteins into multiple membranes. Both tools can be used separately, 
in combination with other methods, or in tandem permitting a fully automated 
workflow while retaining a maximum level of usage control and flexibility. To 
assess the performance of both methods, we carried out test runs using 22 
membrane proteins of different size and transmembrane structure.

DOI: 10.1021/ci3000453
PMID: 22989154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Exp Brain Res. 2012 Nov;223(2):189-97. doi: 10.1007/s00221-012-3250-1. Epub
2012  Sep 19.

Dynamic transformation of vestibular signals for orientation.

Osler CJ(1), Reynolds RF.

Author information:
(1)School of Sport and Exercise Sciences, College of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK.

The same pattern of vestibular afferent feedback may signify a loss of balance 
or a change in body orientation, depending upon the initial head posture. To 
resolve this ambiguity and generate an appropriate motor response, the CNS must 
transform vestibular information from a head-centred reference frame into 
relevant motor coordinates. But what if the reference frame is continuously 
moving? Here, we ask if this neural transformation process is continuously 
updated during a voluntary change in head posture. Galvanic vestibular 
stimulation (GVS) was used to induce a sensation of head roll motion in 
blindfolded subjects marching on the spot. When head orientation was fixed, this 
caused unconscious turning behaviour that was maximal during neck flexion, 
minimal with the head level and reversed direction with neck extension. Subjects 
were then asked to produce a continuous voluntary change in head pitch, while 
GVS was applied. As the neck moved from full flexion into extension, turn 
velocity was continuously modulated and even reversed direction, reflecting the 
pattern observed during the head-fixed condition. Hence, an identical vestibular 
input resulted in motor output which was dynamically modulated by changes in 
head pitch. However, response magnitude was significantly reduced, suggesting 
possible suppression of vestibular input during voluntary head movement. 
Nevertheless, these results show that the CNS continuously reinterprets 
vestibular exafference to account for ongoing voluntary changes in head posture. 
This may explain why the head can be moved freely without losing the sense of 
balance and orientation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00221-012-3250-1
PMID: 22990288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Dec;14(6):863-73. doi: 10.1007/s10198-012-0431-6.
Epub  2012 Sep 19.

The cost-effectiveness of TNF-inhibitors for the treatment of rheumatoid 
arthritis in Swedish clinical practice.

Lekander I(1), Borgström F, Lysholm J, van Vollenhoven RF, Lindblad S, Geborek 
P, Kobelt G.

Author information:
(1)LIME/MMC, Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden, ingrid.lekander@ki.se.

OBJECTIVE: The objective was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
TNF-inhibitors for the treatment of rheumatoid arthritis in Swedish clinical 
practice, both as a first and second biological treatment, with or without the 
combination of conventional DMARDs. Further sub-group analysis of etanercept 
treatment was performed.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patient level data were obtained from three regions of 
the Swedish Rheumatology Registers. The dataset contained 2,558 patients who had 
started TNF-inhibitor treatment, 1,049 with etanercept as their first biological 
treatment. A total of 819 patients had switched to a second TNF-inhibitor, of 
which 425 to etanercept. A Markov cohort model was used in which health states 
of disease severity were classified according to HAQ and DAS28. Disease 
progression and discontinuation rates of TNF-inhibitors were based on the 
registry and for the comparator on published literature. Mortality, costs and 
utilities were based on Swedish data. The main analysis had a societal 
perspective over 20 years and efficacy was measured in quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: TNF-inhibitor treatment was associated with an increase in QALYs and an 
incremental cost compared to no biological treatment. The cost per QALY gained 
with the three TNF-inhibitors ranged from euro 50,000 to euro 120,000, with 
lower estimates for TNF-inhibitors used in combination with MTX and as a first 
biologic. At a progression of 0.045 for the comparator, most values remain 
within the accepted range for cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: These results demonstrate that the cost per QALY for TNF-inhibitors 
was higher than in previous assessments based on registry data and that the 
results were sensitive to the HAQ progression of the comparator.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-012-0431-6
PMID: 22990378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Int Angiol. 2012 Oct;31(5):468-73.

Pilot trial of motivational interviewing in patients with peripheral artery 
disease.

Quirk F(1), Dickinson C, Baune B, Leicht A, Golledge J.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Dentistry, James Cook University, Townsville, QLD, 
Australia.

AIM: Peripheral artery disease (PAD) is a common cause of impaired quality of 
life and reduced life expectancy in older adults. An important component of PAD 
management is improvement in health behavior, but few effective means to achieve 
this have been identified. The aim of the present study was to assess the 
efficacy of motivational interviewing (MI) to facilitate positive health 
behavior change in patients with PAD.
METHODS: Participants (N.=23) diagnosed with PAD were randomized to MI sessions 
or a control group. Primary outcomes of physical activity and dietary behavior 
and secondary outcomes of quality of life were assessed with questionnaires at 
baseline and after 12 weeks.
RESULTS: At 12 weeks, physical activity (330 vs. 396 met-mins/week, P=0.74) and 
dietary behavior (1 vs. 1, P=0.89; 2.67 vs. 2.61, P=0.62) were similar in both 
groups. MI participants reported significantly better quality of life compared 
to control participants (71 vs. 61, P=0.01). Participants' comments suggested 
that MI promoted a process of re-appraisal of health status.
CONCLUSION: This exploratory study has indicated that MI may improve aspects of 
quality of life and provide a prompt to reappraise health status and health 
behaviors in patients with PAD. Validation of these findings and assessment of 
impact on health outcomes is required in a larger and long-term study.

PMID: 22990510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Cancer. 2013 Feb 15;119(4):722-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.27802. Epub 2012 Sep 18.

A population-based study of metastatic colorectal cancer in individuals aged ≥ 
80 years: findings from the South Australian Clinical Registry for Metastatic 
Colorectal Cancer.

Kumar R(1), Jain K, Beeke C, Price TJ, Townsend AR, Padbury R, Roder D, Young 
GP, Richards A, Karapetis CS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Flinders Medical Center, Bedford Park, South 
Australia 5042, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy is increasing, and more patients are presenting with 
cancer at an advanced age (≥80 years). Optimal management for this group of 
patients has not been well defined.
METHODS: The South Australian Clinical Registry for Metastatic Colorectal Cancer 
(mCRC) collects data on all patients diagnosed since February 2006 in South 
Australia. The authors examined cancer characteristics, treatments administered, 
and outcomes for patients aged ≥80 years compared with patients aged <80 years.
RESULTS: Data from 2314 patients were evaluable, and 29.2% of these patients 
were aged ≥80 years. The majority had moderately differentiated tumors. Poorly 
differentiated tumors were reported in fewer patients aged ≥80 years (20.1% vs 
26.1%; P < .005). Overall, 28.1% of patients aged ≥80 years received 
chemotherapy, and 74.2% received single-agent fluoropyrimidines as first-line 
treatment. By comparison, 68.2% of patients aged <80 years received 
chemotherapy, 74.3% received combination chemotherapy, and 25.7% received 
single-agent fluoropyrimidine as first-line treatment. No treatment was received 
by 38.2% of patients aged ≥80 years compared with 11.4% of those aged <80 years. 
Participation in clinical trials was lower in patients aged ≥80 years (2% vs 
13%). The median survival was worse for patients aged ≥80 years (8.2 months vs 
19.2 months; P < .001), and the median survival of patients who received 
chemotherapy was 19.0 months for those aged ≥80 years and 22.3 months for those 
aged <80 years (P = .139). Patients who did not receive treatment had a poor 
median survival regardless of age (2.6 months for patients aged ≥80 years vs 2.7 
months for patients aged <80 years).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients aged ≥80 years were less likely to receive intervention 
for their metastatic colorectal cancer and had poorer survival. The survival of 
selected patients aged ≥80 years who received chemotherapy was similar to the 
survival of those aged <80 years despite the receipt of single-agent therapy. 
Patients aged ≥80 years with metastatic colorectal cancer are less likely to 
receive intervention for their disease and have poorer survival. Survival for 
selected patients aged ≥80 years who receive chemotherapy is similar to the 
survival of patients aged <80 years despite the receipt of single-agent therapy.

Copyright © 2012 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.27802
PMID: 22990939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2012 Mar-Apr;86(2):153-63. doi: 
10.1590/S1135-57272012000200004.

[Premature mortality excess related to influenza in Spain during an 
interpandemic period].

[Article in Spanish]

Simón Méndez L(1), López-Cuadrado T, López Perea N, Larrauri Cámara A, de Mateo 
Ontañón S.

Author information:
(1)Centro Nacional de Epidemiología, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Madrid, 
España.

BACKGROUND: The indicator of Potential Years of Life Lost (PYLL) has been 
frequently used to analysis of premature mortality and recently has been used to 
estimate the impact of the last influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 pandemic. The aim of this 
study was to estimate the excess deaths from pneumonia and influenza (P&I) in 
Spain and the PYLL during the period 1980-2008, measuring the mortality 
attributable to influenza regarding the type/subtype of influenza dominant in 
each season.
METHODS: Monthly excess deaths were calculated with cyclical regression models. 
The PYLL calculation was performed as the product of the number of excess deaths 
and the difference between life expectancy at birth and years lived for each age 
group. The analysis of the variation between P&I excess deaths and PYLL, 
depending on the predominant influenza virus type/subtype was carried out with a 
Poisson regression analysis.
RESULTS: In seasons dominated by influenza virus A(H3) the average P&I excess 
deaths was estimated at 1,348, and for PYLL in 5.297, while in seasons dominated 
by A(H1) or B the average P&I excess deaths was 648, and for PYLL 2.885. The 
adjusted rate ratios of excess (2.11, CI-95%=2.05-2.16) and PYLL (1.86, 
CI-95%=1.83-1.88) indicate that the relative frequencies for both indicators are 
significantly larger in seasons dominated by influenza virus A(H3).
CONCLUSIONS: Excess deaths and PYLL doubled when comparing seasons predominantly 
subtype A(H3) and other influenza viruses.

DOI: 10.1590/S1135-57272012000200004
PMID: 22991058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Rev Esp Salud Publica. 2012 Mar-Apr;86(2):163-76. doi: 
10.1590/S1135-57272012000200005.

[Cost-effectiveness analysis of maintenance therapy with rituximab in patients 
with follicular lymphoma responding to induction therapy at the first line].

[Article in Spanish]

Castro Gómez AJ(1), López-Guillermo A, Rueda Domínguez A, Salar A, Varela Moreno 
C, Rubio-Terrés C.

Author information:
(1)Roche Farma (Madrid), Madrid, España.

BACKGROUND: Maintenance therapy with rituximab for follicular lymphoma (FL) 
responding to induction at the first-line, significantly increases 
progression-free survival compared with observation. To estimate the efficiency 
of this therapeutic option, we performed a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
maintenance therapy of the follicular lymphoma (FL) that responds to induction 
in first line, with rituximab, compared with the option of "watch and wait" 
strategy.
METHODS: We did a Markov model of the FL, with four health states (progression 
free survival in first or second line, progression and death). The transition 
probabilities between states were obtained from clinical trials PRIMA and EORTC 
20981. Health state utilities were obtained from literature. The use of health 
resources, from the perspective of the National Health System was estimated by a 
panel of Spanish clinical experts. Unit costs (euros in 2011) were obtained from 
Spanish sources. Deterministic and probabilistic analyses were made.
RESULTS: In the deterministic base case analysis, for a time horizon of 30 
years, the cost per life year gained (LYG) and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) gained, was euros 5,663 and euros 6,253 respectively. The sensitivity 
analyses confirmed the stability of the base case for time horizons of 10 and 20 
years and various statistical distributions (Weibull, exponential, log-logistic, 
log-normal, Gompertz, and gamma) ranging between euros 4,222 and euros 8,766. 
Rituximab maintenance is cost-effective from a time horizon of 5.7 years (cost 
per QALY gained of euros 29,998).
CONCLUSION: Compared with observation, rituximab maintenance treatment of the FL 
that responds to induction therapy in first line, is cost-effective according to 
the present model.

DOI: 10.1590/S1135-57272012000200005
PMID: 22991059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2012 Jun;19(3):374-81. doi: 10.1177/1741826711409324.

Cause-specific mortality in diabetes: recent changes in trend mortality.

Abi Khalil C(1), Roussel R, Mohammedi K, Danchin N, Marre M.

Author information:
(1)Diabetology, Endocrinology and Nutrition Department, Hôpital Bichat-Claude 
Bernard, Paris, France. charbel.abi-khalil@bch.aphp.fr

Diabetes is one of the most chronic diseases in Western populations. Mortality 
rates in diabetic patients are higher than in the general population and their 
prognosis following any cardiovascular event is generally worse. Type 1 diabetic 
patients' acute complications-related mortality decreases with time and the 
interval free from the diagnosis of diabetes until the development of chronic 
complications is larger although global mortality is still higher than that of 
sex- and age matched healthy individuals. As a consequence of better primary and 
secondary prevention, recent data in the general population show that there is a 
trend towards decreased cardiovascular events and increased life expectancy. The 
same thing applies for type 2 diabetic patients. However, increased survival in 
the general population associated to epidemic bursts of obesity and sedentary 
lifestyle all over the globe, leads to a higher incidence of type 2 diabetes 
worldwide. This counteracts the diminution of diabetes-related mortality that 
would move forward on an ascending slope in the next decades.

DOI: 10.1177/1741826711409324
PMID: 22991697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Harefuah. 2012 Jun;151(6):368-71, 376.

[The implementation of innovative medical technologies: biological 
pharmaceuticals for the treatment of psoriasis--a case study].

[Article in Hebrew]

Tal O(1), Lomnicky Y.

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Health. ornat@gertner.health.gov.il

Advanced health systems worldwide strive to adopt new technologies that will 
ensure improved health and better clinical outcomes. The implementation of new 
medical technologies is affected by medical factors as well as economic and 
social forces, influencing both the individual and the health care providers. 
Chronic disease management is a major challenge to governments, as a result of 
the cumulative effects of chronic morbidity, life expectancy, quality of life 
and the national burden of disease due to accelerating medical expenditure. 
Psoriasis, a common chronic disease, for which advanced technologies were 
recently implemented, was chosen as a case study. The distribution of utility of 
various technologies for the treatment of psoriasis over the past nine years was 
analyzed to categorize "patterns of behavior" in accordance with the lifecycle 
of medical technology described in the Literature. It is expected that these 
changing trends will produce overall economic consequences, on direct 
expenditure combined with a reduction in some health services. Analyzing these 
clinical and economic trends, may add important considerations for the adoption 
of emerging medical technologies, presenting an important tool for policymakers 
at at all levels.

PMID: 22991870 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Cost Eff Resour Alloc. 2012 Sep 19;10(1):12. doi: 10.1186/1478-7547-10-12.

Patient- and population-level health consequences of discontinuing 
antiretroviral therapy in settings with inadequate HIV treatment availability.

Kimmel AD(1), Resch SC, Anglaret X, Daniels N, Goldie SJ, Danel C, Wong AY, 
Freedberg KA, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Healthcare Policy and Research, Virginia Commonwealth 
University School of Medicine, Richmond, VA, 23298, USA. adkimmel@vcu.edu.

BACKGROUND: In resource-limited settings, HIV budgets are flattening or 
decreasing. A policy of discontinuing antiretroviral therapy (ART) after HIV 
treatment failure was modeled to highlight trade-offs among competing policy 
goals of optimizing individual and population health outcomes.
METHODS: In settings with two available ART regimens, we assessed two 
strategies: (1) continue ART after second-line failure (Status Quo) and (2) 
discontinue ART after second-line failure (Alternative). A computer model 
simulated outcomes for a single cohort of newly detected, HIV-infected 
individuals. Projections were fed into a population-level model allowing 
multiple cohorts to compete for ART with constraints on treatment capacity. In 
the Alternative strategy, discontinuation of second-line ART occurred upon 
detection of antiretroviral failure, specified by WHO guidelines. Those 
discontinuing failed ART experienced an increased risk of AIDS-related mortality 
compared to those continuing ART.
RESULTS: At the population level, the Alternative strategy increased the mean 
number initiating ART annually by 1,100 individuals (+18.7%) to 6,980 compared 
to the Status Quo. More individuals initiating ART under the Alternative 
strategy increased total life-years by 15,000 (+2.8%) to 555,000, compared to 
the Status Quo. Although more individuals received treatment under the 
Alternative strategy, life expectancy for those treated decreased by 0.7 years 
(-8.0%) to 8.1 years compared to the Status Quo. In a cohort of treated patients 
only, 600 more individuals (+27.1%) died by 5 years under the Alternative 
strategy compared to the Status Quo. Results were sensitive to the timing of 
detection of ART failure, number of ART regimens, and treatment capacity. 
Although we believe the results robust in the short-term, this analysis reflects 
settings where HIV case detection occurs late in the disease course and 
treatment capacity and the incidence of newly detected patients are stable.
CONCLUSIONS: In settings with inadequate HIV treatment availability, trade-offs 
emerge between maximizing outcomes for individual patients already on treatment 
and ensuring access to treatment for all people who may benefit. While 
individuals may derive some benefit from ART even after virologic failure, the 
aggregate public health benefit is maximized by providing effective therapy to 
the greatest number of people. These trade-offs should be explicit and 
transparent in antiretroviral policy decisions.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7547-10-12
PMCID: PMC3502124
PMID: 22992315241. Am J Prev Med. 2012 Oct;43(4):385-91. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2012.06.021.

Smoke alarm giveaway and installation programs: an economic evaluation.

Liu Y(1), Mack KA, Diekman ST.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Injury Prevention and Control, CDC, 4770 Buford Hwy. NE, 
Atlanta GA 30341, USA.

BACKGROUND: The burden of residential fire injury and death is substantial. 
Targeted smoke alarm giveaway and installation programs are popular 
interventions used to reduce residential fire mortality and morbidity.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness and cost benefit of implementing a 
giveaway or installation program in a small hypothetic community with a high 
risk of fire death and injury through a decision-analysis model.
METHODS: Model inputs included program costs; program effectiveness (life-years 
and quality-adjusted life-years saved); and monetized program benefits (medical 
cost, productivity, property loss and quality-of-life losses averted) and were 
identified through structured reviews of existing literature (done in 2011) and 
supplemented by expert opinion. Future costs and effectiveness were discounted 
at a rate of 3% per year. All costs were expressed in 2011 U.S. dollars.
RESULTS: Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) resulted in an average 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ACER) of $51,404 per quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) saved and $45,630 per QALY for the giveaway and installation programs, 
respectively. Cost-benefit analysis (CBA) showed that both programs were 
associated with a positive net benefit with a benefit-cost ratio of 2.1 and 2.3, 
respectively. Smoke alarm functional rate, baseline prevalence of functional 
alarms, and baseline home fire death rate were among the most influential 
factors for the CEA and CBA results.
CONCLUSIONS: Both giveaway and installation programs have an average 
cost-effectiveness ratio similar to or lower than the median cost-effectiveness 
ratio reported for other interventions to reduce fatal injuries in homes. 
Although more effort is required, installation programs result in lower cost per 
outcome achieved compared with giveaways.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2012.06.021
PMCID: PMC4624218
PMID: 22992356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Neurology. 2012 Oct 2;79(14):1428-34. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31826d5fe8.
Epub  2012 Sep 19.

Cost-effectiveness of apixaban vs warfarin for secondary stroke prevention in 
atrial fibrillation.

Kamel H(1), Easton JD, Johnston SC, Kim AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology and Neuroscience, Weill Cornell Medical College, USA. 
hok9010@med.cornell.edu

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of apixaban vs warfarin for 
secondary stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF).
METHODS: Using standard methods, we created a Markov decision model based on the 
estimated cost of apixaban and data from the Apixaban for Reduction in Stroke 
and Other Thromboembolic Events in Atrial Fibrillation (ARISTOTLE) trial and 
other trials of warfarin therapy for AF. We quantified the cost and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy resulting from apixaban 5 mg twice daily 
compared with those from warfarin therapy targeted to an international 
normalized ratio of 2-3. Our base case population was a cohort of 70-year-old 
patients with no contraindication to anticoagulation and a history of stroke or 
TIA from nonvalvular AF.
RESULTS: Warfarin therapy resulted in a quality-adjusted life expectancy of 3.91 
years at a cost of $378,500. In comparison, treatment with apixaban led to a 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of 4.19 years at a cost of $381,700. Therefore, 
apixaban provided a gain of 0.28 quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) at an 
additional cost of $3,200, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
of $11,400 per QALY. Our findings were robust in univariate sensitivity analyses 
varying model inputs across plausible ranges. In Monte Carlo analysis, apixaban 
was cost-effective in 62% of simulations using a threshold of $50,000 per QALY 
and 81% of simulations using a threshold of $100,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Apixaban appears to be cost-effective relative to warfarin for 
secondary stroke prevention in patients with AF, assuming that it is introduced 
at a price similar to that of dabigatran.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31826d5fe8
PMCID: PMC3525294
PMID: 22993279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Cardiopulm Phys Ther J. 2012 Sep;23(3):37-45.

Physical therapy management of two patients with stage d heart failure in the 
cardiac medical intensive care unit.

Macauley K(1).

Author information:
(1)MGH Institute of Health Professions, School of Health and Rehabilitation 
Sciences, Boston, MA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Due to the increasing prevalence of heart failure (HF) 
and medical advances extending the life expectancy of patients with HF, physical 
therapists are often consulted to assist in the management of these patients in 
light of the benefits of exercise for them. The purpose of this paper is to 
review the equipment and measures often encountered in patients with Stage D HF 
in the intensive care unit (ICU) and to discuss the care provided to two 
patients in this setting.
CASE DESCRIPTIONS: One patient was a 40-year-old man with Stage D HF on multiple 
inotropes receiving physical therapy intervention while awaiting a cardiac 
transplant. The second patient was a 57-year-old man with Stage D HF due to 
ischemic cardiomyopathy, treated by physical therapy while receiving inotropic 
and intra-aortic balloon pump support, awaiting a renal and cardiac transplant.
DISCUSSION: Different physical therapy interventions were safely provided to 
both patients during their cardiac medical ICU courses. Despite multiple medical 
issues requiring more complex decision making skills, this patient population 
may greatly benefit from physical therapy intervention.

PMCID: PMC3443468
PMID: 22993501


244. Front Neuroanat. 2012 Sep 13;6:38. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2012.00038.
eCollection  2012.

The human brain intracerebral microvascular system: development and structure.

Marín-Padilla M(1).

Author information:
(1)Departments of Pathology and Pediatrics, Geisel School of Medicine at 
Dartmouth Hanover, NH, USA.

The capillary from the meningeal inner pial lamella play a crucial role in the 
development and structural organization of the cerebral cortex extrinsic and 
intrinsic microvascular compartments. Only pial capillaries are capable of 
perforating through the cortex external glial limiting membrane (EGLM) to enter 
into the nervous tissue, although incapable of perforating the membrane to exit 
the brain. Circulatory dynamics and functional demands determine which 
capillaries become arterial and which capillaries become venous. The perforation 
of the cortex EGLM by pial capillaries is a complex process characterized by 
three fundamental stages: (1) pial capillary contact with the EGLM with fusion 
of vascular and glial basal laminae at the contact site, (2) endothelial cell 
filopodium penetration through the fussed laminae with the formation of a funnel 
between them that accompanies it into the nervous tissue while remaining open to 
the meningeal interstitium and, (3) penetration of the whole capillary carrying 
the open funnel with it and establishing an extravascular Virchow-Robin 
Compartment (V-RC) that maintains the perforating vessel extrinsic (outside) the 
nervous tissue through its entire length. The V-RC is walled internally by the 
vascular basal lamina and externally by the basal lamina of joined glial cells 
endfeet. The VRC outer glial wall appear as an extension of the cortex 
superficial EGLM. All the perforating vessels within the V-RCs constitute the 
cerebral cortex extrinsic microvascular compartment. These perforating vessels 
are the only one capable of responding to inflammatory insults. The V-RC remains 
open (for life) to the meningeal interstitium permitting the exchanges of fluid 
and of cells between brain and meninges. The V-RC function as the brain sole 
drainage (prelymphatic) system in both physiological as well as pathological 
situations. During cortical development, capillaries emerge from the perforating 
vessels, by endothelial cells growing sprouts analogous to their angiogenesis, 
entering into their corresponding V-RCs. These new capillaries to enter into the 
nervous tissue must perforate through the V-RC outer glial wall, a process 
analogous to the original perforation of the cortex EGLM by pial capillaries. 
These emerging capillaries are incapable of reentering the V-RCs and/or 
perforating vessels. As the new capillary enters into the nervous tissue, it 
becomes surrounded by glial endfeet and carries a single basal lamina (possibly 
glial). Capillaries emerging from contiguous perforators establish an 
anastomotic plexus between them, by mechanisms still poorly understood. The 
capillaries of this anastomotic plexus constitute the cerebral cortex intrinsic 
microvascular compartment and together constitute the so-called 
blood-brain-barrier. The intrinsic capillaries are changing and readapting 
continuously, by both active angiogenesis and reabsorption, to the gray matter 
neurons developmental and functional needs. The brain intrinsic capillaries are 
among the most active microvessels of the human body. Unresolved developmental 
and functional aspects concerning the cerebral cortex intrinsic capillary plexus 
need to be further investigated.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2012.00038
PMCID: PMC3440694
PMID: 22993505


245. Int J Health Serv. 2012;42(3):403-24. doi: 10.2190/HS.42.3.c.

Wealth inequality and health: a political economy perspective.

Nowatzki NR(1).

Author information:
(1)nowatzkn@cc.umanitoba.ca

Despite a plethora of studies on income inequality and health, researchers have 
been unable to make any firm conclusions as a result of methodological and 
theoretical limitations. Within this body of research, there has been a call for 
studies of wealth inequality and health. Wealth is far more unequally 
distributed than income and is conceptually unique from income. This paper 
discusses the results of bivariate cross-sectional analyses of the relationship 
between wealth inequality (Gini coefficient) and population health (life 
expectancy and infant mortality) in 14 wealthy countries. The results confirm 
that wealth inequality is associated with poor population health. Both 
unweighted and weighted correlations between wealth inequality and health are 
strong and significant, even after controlling for a variety of potential 
aggregate-level confounders, including gross domestic product per capita, and 
after excluding the United States, the most unequal country. The results are 
strongest for female life expectancy and infant mortality. The author outlines 
potential pathways through which wealth inequality might affect health, using 
specific countries to illustrate. The article concludes with policy 
recommendations that could contribute to a more equitable distribution of wealth 
and, ultimately, decreased health disparities.

DOI: 10.2190/HS.42.3.c
PMID: 22993961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Am J Public Health. 2012 Nov;102(11):2173-80. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2012.300805.
 Epub 2012 Sep 20.

Deaths from secondhand smoke exposure in the United States: economic 
implications.

Max W(1), Sung HY, Shi Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health & Aging, Suite 340, 3333 California Street, San 
Francisco, CA 94118, USA. wendy.max@ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVES: We estimated the number of deaths attributable to secondhand smoke 
(SHS), years of potential life lost (YPLL), and value of lost productivity for 
different US racial/ethnic groups in 2006.
METHODS: We determined the number of SHS-related deaths among nonsmokers from 2 
adult and 4 infant conditions using an epidemiological approach. We estimated 
adult SHS exposure using detectable serum cotinine. For each death, we 
determined the YPLL and the value of lost productivity. Results. SHS exposure 
resulted in more than 42 000 deaths: more than 41 000 adults and nearly 900 
infants. Blacks accounted for 13% of all deaths but 24% to 36% of infant deaths. 
SHS-attributable deaths resulted in a loss of nearly 600 000 YPLL and $6.6 
billion of lost productivity, or $158 000 per death. The value of lost 
productivity per death was highest among Blacks ($238 000) and Hispanics ($193 
000).
CONCLUSIONS: The economic toll of SHS exposure is substantial, with communities 
of color having the greatest losses. Interventions need to be designed to reduce 
the health and economic burden of smoking on smokers and nonsmokers alike and on 
particularly vulnerable groups.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2012.300805
PMCID: PMC3477960
PMID: 22994180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Drug Alcohol Rev. 2013 Mar;32(2):162-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1465-3362.2012.00500.x.  Epub 2012 Sep 20.

The relationship between placebo alcohol and affect: motives for drinking.

Bailey RC(1), Baillie AJ.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Emotional Health, Department of Psychology, Macquarie University, 
Sydney, Australia.

INTRODUCTION AND AIMS: Although alcohol is often used in an attempt to alleviate 
negative affect, alcohol oftentimes exacerbates depressive symptoms. Therefore 
the relationship between alcohol and affect, and the role of motives for 
drinking remain unclear. The present study hypothesised that placebo alcohol 
would blunt affective responding and that desire to drink would increase in 
individuals who expected alcohol to help them cope after a negative experience. 
The present study also explored whether motives and reasons for drinking altered 
after a negative experience.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Participants (36 first-year psychology students and 41 
community members) were randomly assigned to one of four experimental groups, 
being soft drink or placebo alcohol, neutral or negative mood induction.
RESULTS: Two repeated measures analyses indicated that placebo alcohol did not 
significantly blunt affective responding after the negative mood induction. 
T-tests showed that desire to drink did not significantly increase post negative 
mood induction for participants who endorsed coping motives for drinking. 
However, interestingly coping-depression and enhancement motives decreased after 
negative mood induction, and participants misattributed the majority of their 
mood to other life events.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSIONS: The findings indicate that motives for drinking are 
amendable with prior learning, providing support for expectancy challenge 
procedures. The study also provides some evidence for alcohol's effect on 
emotional lability.

© 2012 Australasian Professional Society on Alcohol and other Drugs.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1465-3362.2012.00500.x
PMID: 22994550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2012 Oct;28(4):398-406. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462312000463. Epub 2012 Sep 21.

Shortened peginterferon and ribavirin treatment for chronic hepatitis C.

Hartwell D(1), Jones J, Baxter L, Shepherd J.

Author information:
(1)d.hartwell@soton.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Peginterferon alfa and ribavirin combination therapy is an effective 
treatment for many patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV). Reducing the 
length of treatment may be advantageous. We performed a systematic review and 
economic evaluation to assess shorter treatment duration of this regimen.
METHODS: We searched fourteen bibliographic databases (including The Cochrane 
Library, Medline, and Embase) from 2000 to October 2009 and consulted experts 
and drug manufacturers. Eligible articles were randomized controlled trials 
(RCTs) selected according to predefined criteria. We undertook an economic 
evaluation to assess the cost-effectiveness of shortened treatment versus 
standard treatment in the UK.
RESULTS: Six trials were included. In the sub-group of patients who had low 
viral load (LVL) and a rapid virological response (RVR), there were no 
statistically significant differences in sustained virological response (SVR) 
rates between patients who received standard treatment (range, 83 percent to 100 
percent) and those who received shortened courses (range 84 percent to 96 
percent) (24 weeks for genotype 1, 16 weeks for genotype 2/3). Shortened 
treatment resulted in cost savings, but in some scenarios also resulted in 
poorer outcome, compared with standard treatment. This requires a judgment to be 
made on the value of the quality-adjusted life-year loss resulting from adopting 
a shorter treatment regimen, if shorter treatment is associated with a lower SVR 
than standard treatment duration.
CONCLUSIONS: For chronic HCV patients who have LVL and achieve an RVR, shortened 
peginterferon and ribavirin combination therapy could be considered as a viable 
treatment option.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462312000463
PMID: 22995040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Lancet. 2012 Nov 3;380(9853):1568-74. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61141-6.
Epub  2012 Sep 18.

Premature death after self-harm: a multicentre cohort study.

Bergen H(1), Hawton K, Waters K, Ness J, Cooper J, Steeg S, Kapur N.

Author information:
(1)University of Oxford Centre for Suicide Research, Department of Psychiatry, 
Warneford Hospital, Headington, Oxford, UK.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2012 Nov 3;380(9853):1558.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2012 Nov 3;380(9853):1536-8.

BACKGROUND: People who self-harm have an increased risk of premature death. The 
aim of this study was to investigate cause-specific premature death in 
individuals who self-harm, including associations with socioeconomic 
deprivation.
METHODS: We undertook a cohort study of patients of all ages presenting to 
emergency departments in Oxford, Manchester, and Derby, UK, after self-poisoning 
or self-injury between Jan 1, 2000, and Dec 31, 2007. Postcodes of individuals' 
place of residence were linked to the Index of Multiple Deprivation 2007 in 
England. Mortality information was supplied by the Medical Research Information 
Service of the National Health Service. Patients were followed up to the end of 
2009. We calculated age-standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) and years of life 
lost (YLL), and we tested for associations with socioeconomic deprivation.
FINDINGS: 30 950 individuals presented with self-harm and were followed up for a 
median of 6·0 years (IQR 3·9-7·9). 1832 (6·1%) patients died before the end of 
follow-up. Death was more likely in patients than in the general population (SMR 
3·6, 95% CI 3·5-3·8), and occurred more in males (4·1, 3·8-4·3) than females 
(3·2, 2·9-3·4). Deaths due to natural causes were 2-7·5 times more frequent than 
was expected. For individuals who died of any cause, mean YLL was 31·4 years 
(95% CI 30·5-32·2) for male patients and 30·7 years (29·5-31·9) for female 
patients. Mean YLL for natural-cause deaths was 25·9 years (25·7-26·0) for male 
patients and 25·5 years (25·2-25·8) for female patients, and for external-cause 
deaths was 40·2 years (40·0-40·3) and 40·0 years (39·7-40·5), respectively. 
Disease of the circulatory (13·1% in males; 13·0% in females) and digestive 
(11·7% in males; 17·8% in females) systems were major contributors to YLL from 
natural causes. All-cause mortality increased with each quartile of 
socioeconomic deprivation in male patients (χ(2) trend 39·6; p<0·0001), female 
patients (13·9; p=0·0002), and both sexes combined (55·4; p<0·0001). 
Socioeconomic deprivation was related to mortality in both sexes combined from 
natural causes (51·0; p<0·0001) but not from external causes (0·30; p=0·58). 
Alcohol problems were associated with death from digestive-system disease, drug 
misuse with mental and behavioural disorders, and physical health problems with 
circulatory-system disease.
INTERPRETATION: Physical health and life expectancy are severely compromised in 
individuals who self-harm compared with the general population. In the 
management of self-harm, clinicians assessing patients' psychosocial problems 
should also consider their physical needs.
FUNDING: Department of Health Policy Research Programme.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61141-6
PMID: 22995670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Internist (Berl). 2012 Oct;53(10):1151-6. doi: 10.1007/s00108-011-2990-5.

[Morbidity and mortality in HIV infection].

[Article in German]

Stöckle M(1), Elzi L, Rockstroh JK, Battegay M.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Infektiologie und Spitalhygiene, Universitätsspital Basel, 
Petersgraben 4, 4031, Basel, Schweiz.

Combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has dramatically improved the 
prognosis of HIV-infected individuals, with a close to a normal life expectancy 
in a significant proportion of treated individuals. Upon start of cART, 
HIV-induced immune deficiency can be prevented or, if already present, 
reconstituted. Remaining morbidity and mortality is partly due to the late 
diagnosis of HIV infection or late presentation of patients, when CD4-T-cells 
have already fallen below 200 cells/µl and/or AIDS-defining conditions have 
manifested. Further reasons for remaining morbidity and mortality are related to 
co-morbidities such as viral hepatitis and tumors, particularly in older 
patients. As HIV-infected patients become older, increasing co-morbidities and 
socio-economic costs may become a challenge in the future.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-011-2990-5
PMID: 22996358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Ear Nose Throat J. 2012 Sep;91(9):E1-3.

Prostate cancer metastatic to the larynx: a case report.

Katime EE(1), Khurana JS, Arosarena OA.

Author information:
(1)Valley Family Medicine Residency of Modesto, an affiliate of the University 
of California Davis Family Practice Residency Program, Modesto, CA, USA.

Prostate cancer, which is the most common cancer among men, rarely metastasizes 
to the neck. We report a case of prostatic carcinoma that metastasized to the 
larynx in a 71-year-old man who presented with hoarseness and shortness of 
breath. Computed tomography (CT) detected a 2.9 × 3.1 × 2.6-cm mass that 
extended from the cricoid and arytenoid cartilages into the superior trachea. 
Findings on histopathology and immunohistochemistry of the laryngeal tumor were 
consistent with a metastasis of the patient's earlier prostate cancer. CT of the 
chest later detected a soft-tissue mass in the right paraspinal area and other 
thoracic pathology that represented metastatic disease. The patient was treated 
with palliative radiation therapy. As androgen deprivation therapy continues to 
increase the life expectancy of prostate cancer patients, detection of distant 
metastases will likely increase, as well. Urogenital cancer metastatic to the 
head and neck should be considered in the differential diagnosis of laryngeal 
masses.

PMID: 22996711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Clin Infect Dis. 2013 Jan;56(1):140-2. doi: 10.1093/cid/cis813. Epub 2012
Sep  20.

Editorial commentary: turning the tide on HIV in women and children: preventing 
breast-milk HIV transmission while increasing maternal life expectancy.

Becquet R, Dabis F.

Comment on
    Clin Infect Dis. 2013 Jan;56(1):131-9.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/cis813
PMID: 22997213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Health Serv Res. 2012 Dec;47(6):2097-117. doi:
10.1111/j.1475-6773.2012.01462.x.  Epub 2012 Sep 21.

Comparative cost-effectiveness of interventions to improve medication adherence 
after myocardial infarction.

Ito K(1), Shrank WH, Avorn J, Patrick AR, Brennan TA, Antman EM, Choudhry NK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics, Department of 
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 
02120, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the comparative cost-effectiveness of interventions to 
improve adherence to evidence-based medications among postmyocardial infarction 
(MI) patients.
DATA SOURCES/STUDY SETTING: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
STUDY DESIGN: We developed a Markov model simulating a hypothetical cohort of 
65-year-old post-MI patients who were prescribed secondary prevention 
medications. We evaluated mailed education, disease management, polypill use, 
and combinations of these interventions. The analysis was performed from a 
societal perspective over a lifetime horizon. The main outcome was an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) as measured by cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
DATA COLLECTION/EXTRACTION METHODS: Model inputs were extracted from published 
literature.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Compared with usual care, only mailed education had both 
improved health outcomes and reduced spending. Mailed education plus disease 
management, disease management, polypill use, polypill use plus mailed 
education, and polypill use plus disease management cost were $74,600, $69,200, 
$133,000, $113,000, and $142,900 per QALY gained, respectively. In an 
incremental analysis, only mailed education had an ICER of less than $100,000 
per QALY and was therefore the optimal strategy. Polypill use, particularly when 
combined with mailed education, could be cost effective, and potentially cost 
saving if its price decreased to less than $100 per month.
CONCLUSIONS: Mailed education and a polypill, once available, may be the 
cost-saving strategies for improving post-MI medication adherence.

© Health Research and Educational Trust.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1475-6773.2012.01462.x
PMCID: PMC3523366
PMID: 22998129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. CNS Neurol Disord Drug Targets. 2012 Nov 1;11(7):937-49. doi: 
10.2174/1871527311201070937.

Radiation-induced neuroinflammation and radiation somnolence syndrome.

Ballesteros-Zebadúa P(1), Chavarria A, Celis MA, Paz C, Franco-Pérez J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurophysiology, National Institute of Neurology and 
Neurosurgery M.V.S., Insurgentes Sur No. 3877, Col. La Fama, México D.F., 
México.

Cranial irradiation remains a standard treatment for malignant and benign brain 
diseases. Although this procedure helps to lengthen the life expectancy of the 
patient, the appearance of adverse effects related to radiation-induced injury 
is inevitable. Radiation somnolence syndrome (RSS) has been described as a 
delayed effect observed mainly after whole-brain radiotherapy in children. The 
RSS was first linked to demyelination, but more recently it has been proposed 
that the inflammatory response plays a primary role in the aforementioned 
syndrome. To evaluate the feasibility of this hypothesis, we explored previous 
work about RSS and reviewed published research that included measurements of the 
inflammatory response in models of brain exposure to ionizing radiation. 
Pro-inflammatory cytokines such as interleukin-1β, tumor necrosis factor-α, 
interleukin-6 and interleukin-18 as well as other inflammatory markers such as 
cyclooxygenase-2, prostaglandin E₂, glial fibrillary acid protein, intercellular 
adhesion molecule-1 and nuclear factor-κB appear to be involved in the brain's 
response to radiation. However, certain publications have described the 
somnogenic effects of these cytokines and inflammatory markers. Although the 
radiation response is a complex phenomenon that involves several molecular and 
cellular processes, we propose that inflammation may be closely related to the 
adverse effects of brain irradiation and therefore to the etiology of RSS.

DOI: 10.2174/1871527311201070937
PMID: 22998139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Value Health. 2012 Sep-Oct;15(6):887-93. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.06.004.

Orthopaedic trauma care in Haiti: a cost-effectiveness analysis of an innovative 
surgical residency program.

Carlson LC(1), Slobogean GP, Pollak AN.

Author information:
(1)University of Maryland School of Medicine, R. Adams Cowley Shock Trauma 
Center, Baltimore, MD 21201, USA.

OBJECTIVE: In an effort to sustainably strengthen orthopaedic trauma care in 
Haiti, a 2-year Orthopaedic Trauma Care Specialist (OTCS) program for Haitian 
physicians has been developed. The program will provide focused training in 
orthopaedic trauma surgery and fracture care utilizing a train-the-trainer 
approach. The purpose of this analysis was to calculate the cost-effectiveness 
of the program relative to its potential to decrease disability in the Haitian 
population.
METHODS: Using established methodology originally outlined in the World Health 
Organization's Global Burden of Disease project, a cost-effectiveness analysis 
was performed for the OTCS program in Haiti. Costs and disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) averted were estimated per fellow trained in the OTCS program 
by using a 20-year career time horizon. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was 
used to simultaneously test the joint uncertainty of the cost and averted DALY 
estimates. A willingness-to-pay threshold of $1200 per DALY averted, equal to 
the gross domestic product per capita in Haiti, was selected on the basis of 
World Health Organization's definition of highly cost-effective health 
interventions.
RESULTS: The OTCS program results in an incremental cost of $1,542,544 ± 
$109,134 and 12,213 ± 2,983 DALYs averted per fellow trained. The 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $133.97 ± $34.71 per DALY averted is well below the 
threshold of $1200 per DALY averted. Furthermore, sensitivity analysis suggests 
that implementing the OTCS program is the economically preferred strategy with 
more than 95% probability at a willingness-to-pay threshold of $200 per DALY 
averted and across the entire range of potential variable inputs.
CONCLUSIONS: The current economic analysis suggests the OTCS program to be a 
highly cost-effective intervention. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
demonstrates that the conclusions remain stable even when considering the joint 
uncertainty of the cost and DALY estimates.

Copyright © 2012 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.06.004
PMID: 22999139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Value Health. 2012 Sep-Oct;15(6):894-906. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.06.005.
Epub  2012 Aug 9.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of antiviral treatments for HBeAg-positive chronic 
hepatitis B in Canada.

He J(1), Bowen JM, Xie F, Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Institute for Health Information, Toronto, ON, Canada. 
mail.jinghe@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To conduct a cost-effectiveness analysis of currently available 
nucleos(t)ide antiviral treatments (lamivudine, telbivudine, entecavir, and 
tenofovir) for chronic hepatitis B in Canada.
METHODS: Markov modeling was used to project the lifetime health benefits and 
costs associated with the antiviral treatments. The hypothetical patient 
