several representative species from different evolutionary eras. Using a 
SelGenAmic-based selenoprotein identification method, 178 selenoprotein genes 
were identified in 6 invertebrates: Amphimedon queenslandica, Trichoplax 
adhaerens, Nematostella vectensis, Lottia gigantean, Capitella teleta, and 
Branchiostoma floridae. Amphioxus was found to have the most abundant and 
variant selenoproteins of any animal currently characterized, including a 
special selenoprotein P (SelP) possessing 3 repeated Trx-like domains and Sec 
residues in the N-terminal and 2 Sec residues in the C-terminal. This gene 
structure suggests the existence of two different strategies for extension of 
Sec numbers in SelP for the preservation and transportation of selenium. In 
addition, novel eukaryotic AphC-like selenoproteins were identified in sponges.
CONCLUSION: Comparison of various animal species suggests that even the most 
primitive animals possess a selenoproteome range and variety similar to humans. 
During evolutionary history, only a few new selenoproteins have emerged and few 
were lost. Furthermore, the massive loss of selenoproteins in nematodes and 
insects likely occurred independently in isolated partial evolutionary branches.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2164-13-446
PMCID: PMC3473315
PMID: 22943432 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Colorectal Dis. 2012 Dec;14(12):e807-14. doi: 10.1111/codi.12002.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of sacral neuromodulation for faecal incontinence in 
The Netherlands.

van Wunnik BP(1), Visschers RG, van Asselt AD, Baeten CG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Maastricht University Medical Centre, The Netherlands. 
b.van.wunnik@mumc.nl

AIM: Sacral neuromodulation (SNM) plays a major part in the algorithm of 
management of faecal incontinence, but there are limited data on its 
cost-effectiveness. This study aimed to analyse this and the quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) associated with two different treatment algorithms. The first 
(SNM-) included use of an artificial sphincter [dynamic graciloplasty (DGP) 
(50%) and artificial bowel sphincter (ABS) (50%)]. The second (SNM+) included 
SNM (80% of cases) and artificial sphincter (DGP 10%; ABS 10%) The incidence of 
sphincteroplasty was assumed to be equal in both algorithms.
METHOD: A Markov model was developed. A hypothetical cohort of patients was run 
through both strategies of the model. A mailed EuroQoL-5D questionnaire was used 
to determine health-related quality of life. Costs were reproduced from the 
Maastricht University Medical Centre prospective faecal incontinence database. 
The time scale of the analysis was 5 years.
RESULTS: The former treatment protocol cost €22,651 per patient and the latter, 
after the introduction of SNM, cost €16,473 per patient. The former treatment 
protocol resulted in a success rate of 0.59 after 5 years, whereas with the 
introduction of SNM this was 0.82. Adhering to the former treatment protocol 
yielded 4.14 QALYs and implementing the latter produced 4.21 QALYs.
CONCLUSION: The study demonstrated that introducing SNM in the surgical 
management algorithm for faecal incontinence was both more effective and less 
costly than DGP or ABS without SNM. This justifies adequate funding for SNM for 
patients with faecal incontinence.

© 2012 The Authors. Colorectal Disease © 2012 The Association of Coloproctology 
of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/codi.12002
PMID: 22943485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Glob Health Action. 2012 Aug 23;5:1-13. doi: 10.3402/gha.v5i0.18847.

Assessing research activity on priority interventions for non-communicable 
disease prevention in low- and middle-income countries: a bibliometric analysis.

Jones AC(1), Geneau R.

Author information:
(1)Non-Communicable Disease Prevention, International Development Research 
Centre, 150 Kent Street, Ottawa, ON, Canada. ajones02@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Action is urgently needed to curb the rising rates of 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) and 
reduce the resulting social and economic burdens. There is global evidence about 
the most cost-effective interventions for addressing the main NCD risk factors 
such as tobacco use, unhealthy diets, physical inactivity, and alcohol misuse. 
However, it is unknown how much research is focused on informing the local 
adoption and implementation of these interventions.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the degree of research activity on NCD priority 
interventions in LMICs by using bibliometric analysis to quantify the number of 
relevant peer-reviewed scientific publications.
METHODS: A multidisciplinary, multi-lingual journal database was searched for 
articles on NCD priority interventions. The interventions examined emphasise 
population-wide, policy, regulation, and legislation approaches. The publication 
timeframe searched was the year 2000-2011. Of the 11,211 articles yielded, 525 
met the inclusion criteria.
RESULTS: Over the 12-year period, the number of articles published increased 
overall but differed substantially between regions: Latin America & Caribbean 
had the highest (127) and Middle East & North Africa had the lowest (11). Of the 
risk factor groups, 'tobacco control' led in publications, with 'healthy diets 
and physical activity' and 'reducing harmful alcohol use' in second and third 
place. Though half the publications had a first author from a high-income 
country institutional affiliation, developing country authorship had increased 
in recent years.
CONCLUSIONS: While rising global attention to NCDs has likely produced an 
increase in peer-reviewed publications on NCDs in LMICs, publication rates 
directly related to cost-effective interventions are still very low, suggesting 
either limited local research activity or limited opportunities for LMIC 
researchers to publish on these issues. More research is needed on high-priority 
interventions and research funders should re-examine if intervention research is 
enough of a funding priority.

DOI: 10.3402/gha.v5i0.18847
PMCID: PMC3427597
PMID: 22944364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Arch Neurol. 2012 Dec;69(12):1644-7. doi: 10.1001/archneurol.2012.486.

Fulminant subacute sclerosing panencephalitis in an individual with a 
perinatally acquired human immunodeficiency virus infection.

Sivadasan A, Alexander M, Patil AK, Balagopal K, Azad ZR.

BACKGROUND Case reports of subacute sclerosing panencephalitis (SSPE) in 
individuals with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection are scarce, and 
the natural history is unclear. To our knowledge, a fulminant presentation has 
not yet been described. OBJECTIVE To describe a case of fulminant SSPE in an 
individual with a perinatally acquired HIV infection. DESIGN Case report and 
literature review. SETTING Christian Medical College Hospital, Vellore, India. 
PATIENT A 17-year-old boy with a perinatally acquired HIV infection. RESULTS The 
patient presented with subacute-onset cognitive decline and myoclonic jerks with 
rapid deterioration of health (the patient died within 12 weeks of onset). The 
findings from magnetic resonance imaging and electroencephalography and the 
cerebrospinal fluid and serum measles antibody titers were suggestive of SSPE. 
The fulminant presentation in this case needs to be noted. CONCLUSIONS Along 
with the better life expectancy of HIV-infected individuals, there may be an 
increase in the incidence of SSPE in this population. Fulminant SSPE may be 
added to the spectrum of measles-associated neurological disorders in HIV.

DOI: 10.1001/archneurol.2012.486
PMID: 22944871


106. Spinal Cord. 2013 Feb;51(2):144-9. doi: 10.1038/sc.2012.101. Epub 2012 Sep
4.

Kinematic characteristics of tenodesis grasp in C6 quadriplegia.

Mateo S(1), Revol P, Fourtassi M, Rossetti Y, Collet C, Rode G.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U1028, CNRS UMR5292, Lyon Neuroscience Research Center, ImpAct Team, 
Lyon, France. sebastien.mateo@chu-lyon.fr

STUDY DESIGN: Descriptive control case study.
OBJECTIVES: To analyze the kinematics of tenodesis grasp in participants with C6 
quadriplegia and healthy control participants in a pointing task and two daily 
life tasks involving a whole hand grip (apple) or a lateral grip (floppy disk).
SETTING: France.
METHODS: Four complete participants with C6 quadriplegia were age matched with 
four healthy control participants. All participants were right-handed. The 
measured kinematic parameters were the movement time (MT), the peak velocity 
(PV), the time of PV (TPV) and the wrist angle in the sagittal plane at movement 
onset, at the TPV and at the movement end point.
RESULTS: The participants with C6 quadriplegia had significantly longer MTs in 
both prehension tasks. No significant differences in TPV were found between the 
two groups. Unlike control participants, for both prehension tasks the wrist of 
participants with C6 quadriplegia was in a neutral position at movement onset, 
in flexion at the TPV, and in extension at the movement end point.
CONCLUSION: Two main kinematic parameters characterize tenodesis grasp movements 
in C6 quadriplegics: wrist flexion during reaching and wrist extension during 
the grasping phase, and increased MT reflecting the time required to adjust the 
wrist's position to achieve the tenodesis grasp. These characteristics were 
observed for two different grips (whole hand and lateral grip). These results 
suggest sequential planning of reaching and tenodesis grasp, and should be taken 
into account for prehension rehabilitation in patients with quadriplegia.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.2012.101
PMID: 22945744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. BMJ. 2012 Sep 3;345:e5898. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e5898.

UK population enjoys a healthier older age.

Limb M.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e5898
PMID: 22945957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Zoo Wildl Med. 2011 Jun;42(2):197-204. doi: 10.1638/2009-0173.1.

Hospice in a zoologic medicine setting.

Jessup DA(1), Scott CA.

Author information:
(1)California Department of Fish and Game, Marine Wildlife Veterinary Care and 
Research Center, 1451 Shaffer Road, Santa Cruz, California 95060, USA. 
djessup@ospr.dfg.ca.gov

Forty years ago, Dr. Elizabeth Kubler-Ross in her landmark book On death and 
dying observed "maybe at the end of our days, when we have worked and given, 
enjoyed ourselves and suffered, we are going back to the stage that we started 
out with and the circle of life is closed." Just as human life expectancy has 
steadily increased over the last 4 or 5 decades, animal life expectancy has 
increased, including that of zoologic species. With this has come a need for 
humans to openly and frankly deal with end-of-life issues for themselves and for 
their animals, including those in zoos. By necessity, zoos have been dealing 
with problems such as aggressive pain management and triage, and efforts to 
incorporate end-of-life care into zoologic medicine. But these efforts have yet 
to include formal acknowledgment that they are a basic form of hospice. Hospice 
for humans, and now for companion animals, includes much more than pain relief 
and geriatric care. This article reviews the concepts and basic practices of 
hospice and the closely related field of palliative care, their relatively 
recent application to companion animal care, potential applications to zoologic 
medicine, and the ways this could provide opportunities for personal growth of 
zoo visitors and staff, including veterinary staff.

DOI: 10.1638/2009-0173.1
PMID: 22946395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Ann Med. 2013 Mar;45(2):156-61. doi: 10.3109/07853890.2012.700115. Epub 2012
Sep  4.

Markers of biological fitness as predictors of all-cause mortality.

Eriksson JG(1), Kajantie E, Lampl M, Osmond C, Barker DJ.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Health and Welfare, Department of Chronic Disease 
Prevention, Helsinki, Finland. Johan.eriksson@helsinki.fi

INTRODUCTION: Within the Helsinki Birth Cohort, men who were tall when they were 
7 years old lived for 5 years longer than men who were short. In the present 
analyses we examined two other influences known to be associated with lifespan: 
having children and educational attainment. We hypothesized that tall stature, 
the ability to have children, and high educational attainment reflect three 
aspects of biological fitness that are acquired during development.
METHODS: We examined all-cause mortality in 6975 men and 6370 women born in 
Helsinki during 1934-1944, whose childhood growth, number of children, and 
educational attainment were recorded.
RESULTS: In contrast to men, tall stature in childhood was not associated with 
longer lifespan among women. Men and women who had children lived for longer 
than those who had no children. Among women, having children was only associated 
with increased lifespan among those whose body mass index increased between 2 
and 11 years. High educational attainment was associated with longer lifespan in 
both sexes. The trends of lower all-cause mortality with higher educational 
attainment were present in each socio-economic group. The men and women who had 
children, and attained upper tertiary education, lived for 16 years longer than 
those who had no children and only basic education.
CONCLUSION: We suggest that the associations between having children, 
educational attainment, and lifespan reflect two different aspects of biological 
fitness that are acquired during early development.

DOI: 10.3109/07853890.2012.700115
PMID: 22946648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. BioDrugs. 2012 Oct 1;26(5):315-23. doi: 10.2165/11206880-000000000-00000.

Recombinant human c1 inhibitor (conestat alfa): in the treatment of angioedema 
attacks in hereditary angioedema.

Plosker GL(1).

Author information:
(1)demail@springer.com

Conestat alfa is a recombinant human C1 inhibitor used in the treatment of 
angioedema attacks in patients with hereditary angioedema (HAE). Patients with 
type I or II HAE have a deficiency in functional C1 inhibitor, which is an 
important regulator of complement and contact system activation. The therapeutic 
efficacy of conestat alfa in the treatment of angioedema attacks in patients 
with HAE was evaluated in two similar randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled trials conducted in North America and Europe. The randomized 
controlled phases of both studies were closed after interim analyses provided 
compelling evidence of statistically significant positive efficacy findings and 
showed no apparent adverse safety findings. Results of the pooled analysis of 
the two trials showed that conestat alfa provided significantly faster initial 
relief of symptoms than placebo. The median time to the beginning of relief of 
symptoms (primary endpoint) was 66 minutes with conestat alfa 100 units/kg, 122 
minutes with conestat alfa 50 units/kg, and 495 minutes with placebo. Conestat 
alfa was also statistically superior to placebo for the secondary endpoint of 
median time to minimal symptoms, with values of 266, 247, and 1210 minutes for 
the respective treatment groups. On the basis of data from open-label extension 
studies and integrated analyses of clinical trial data, conestat alfa has 
demonstrated efficacy in the treatment of repeated HAE attacks and in patients 
with potentially life-threatening HAE attacks with involvement of the upper 
airways. Conestat alfa was generally well tolerated in clinical trials, with the 
most frequently reported adverse event being headache. In the two randomized 
controlled trials, headache and vertigo were the only adverse events deemed to 
be related to study treatment.

DOI: 10.2165/11206880-000000000-00000
PMID: 22946752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. BJU Int. 2013 Mar;111(3 Pt B):E24-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11368.x.
Epub  2012 Sep 5.

Tumour characteristics, oncological and functional outcomes in patients aged ≥ 
70 years undergoing radical prostatectomy.

Kunz I(1), Musch M, Roggenbuck U, Klevecka V, Kroepfl D.

Author information:
(1)Kliniken Essen-Mitte, Department of Urology, Paediatric Urology and 
Urological Oncology, Essen, Germany.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2013 Oct;190(4):1249.

Study Type - Therapy (case series) Level of Evidence 4 What's known on the 
subject? and What does the study add? The marked increase in life expectancy in 
recent years calls for reconsideration of the decision-making process for the 
treatment of prostate cancer, a condition particularly affecting the elderly. To 
date the general approach in elderly patients has tended to be more 
conservative, not least as it is generally thought that prostate cancer in these 
patients is less biologically aggressive. The present data showed that patients 
aged ≥70 years had biologically more aggressive tumours significantly more often 
than those aged <70 years. Nevertheless, advanced age itself was not an 
independent predictor of survival after retropubic radical prostatectomy, 
whereas adverse prostate cancer features and severe comorbidities were.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the effect of advanced age (≥70 years) on prostate 
cancer characteristics, oncological and functional outcomes in patients 
undergoing retropubic radical prostatectomy (RP).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between June 1997 and September 2009, 1636 patients 
underwent RP at one institution. Of these patients, 1225 were aged < 70 years 
and 411 ≥70 years. Both groups were compared for prostate cancer 
characteristics, oncological and functional outcomes. Multivariate analyses were 
used to estimate the effect of advanced age on overall survival (OS), 
cancer-specific survival (CSS), biochemical recurrence-free survival (BFS) and 
postoperative continence.
RESULTS: The median (range) age of the patients aged ≥ 70 years was 72 (70-85) 
years and for those aged < 70 years was 64 (40-69) years (P < 0.001), 
respectively. The patients aged ≥ 70 years were assigned higher American Society 
of Anesthesiologists (ASA) classes (P < 0.001) reflecting a higher rate of 
severe comorbidities in this group. In the patients aged ≥ 70 years there were 
significantly more clinically palpable and pathologically non-organ-confined 
tumours (P= 0.030 and P= 0.026, respectively), and higher biopsy and RP Gleason 
scores (P= 0.002 and P= 0.004, respectively). Accordingly, patients aged ≥ 70 
years presented with a higher proportion of high-risk prostate cancer, although 
the difference was not significant (P= 0.060). There were no differences between 
the groups for preoperative prostate-specific antigen level (P= 0.898), rate of 
pelvic lymph node dissection (P= 0.231), pN+ (P= 0.526) and R+ status (P= 
0.590). Kaplan-Meier curves showed a significantly lower 10-year OS (67 vs 82%; 
P= 0.017) and a trend towards a lower 10-year CSS (70 vs 83%; P= 0.057) in 
patients aged ≥ 70 years. However, on multivariate analysis advanced age was not 
an independent predictor of OS (P= 0.102) or CSS (P= 0.195), whereas pN+ status 
(both P < 0.001), RP Gleason scores 8-10 (both P < 0.001) and ASA classes 3-4 
(P= 0.037 and P= 0.028, respectively) were. The 2-year postoperative continence 
rates was comparable between the groups (International Continence Society [ICS] 
male incontinence symptom score 2.10 vs 2.01; P= 0.984). In multivariate 
analysis it depended only on the preoperative ICSmale incontinence symptom score 
(P < 0.001) but not on advanced age (P= 0.341).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients aged ≥ 70 years had biologically more aggressive and 
locally advanced tumours significantly more often than those aged < 70 years. 
However, advanced age itself was not an independent predictor of survival after 
RP. Rather, survival was associated with adverse prostate cancer features and 
severe comorbidities. Consequently, it seems unjustifiable to generally exclude 
elderly patients from RP, not least because surgery achieved excellent 
postoperative continence in this age group, too.

© 2012 THE AUTHORS. BJU INTERNATIONAL © 2012 BJU INTERNATIONAL.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11368.x
PMID: 22947135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Evol Psychol. 2010 Sep 23;8(3):492-505.

The effect of life expectancy on aggression and generativity: a life history 
perspective.

Dunkel CS(1), Mathes E, Papini DR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Western Illinois University, Macomb, IL, USA. 
C-Dunkel@wiu.edu

Following a model that is inclusive of both dispositional and situational 
influences on life-history behaviors and attitudes, the effect of life 
expectancies on aggression and generativity was examined. Consistent with the 
hypotheses it was found that shorter life expectancies led to an increase in the 
desire to aggress and a decrease in the desire to engage in generative 
behaviors. The results are discussed in terms of how life history theory can be 
used to frame research on person-situation interactions.

PMID: 22947815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. J Mech Behav Biomed Mater. 2012 Oct;14:248-58. doi:
10.1016/j.jmbbm.2012.06.009.  Epub 2012 Jun 27.

Experimental and numerical tribological studies of a boundary lubricant 
functionalized poro-viscoelastic PVA hydrogel in normal contact and sliding.

Blum MM(1), Ovaert TC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Aerospace and Mechanical Engineering, University of Notre Dame, 
Notre Dame, IN, USA.

Hydrogels are a cross-linked network of polymers swollen with liquid and have 
the potential to be used as a synthetic replacement for local defects in load 
bearing tissues such as articular cartilage. Hydrogels display viscoelastic time 
dependent behavior, therefore experimental analysis of stresses at the surface 
and within the gel is difficult to perform. A three-dimensional model of a 
hydrogel was developed in the commercial finite element software ABAQUS™, 
implementing a poro-viscoelastic constitutive model along with a 
contact-dependent flow state and friction conditions. Water content 
measurements, sliding, and indentation experiments were performed on neat 
polyvinyl alcohol (PVA), and on low friction boundary lubricant functionalized 
(BLF-PVA) hydrogels, both manufactured by freeze-thaw processes. Modulus results 
from the indentation experiments and coefficient of friction values from the 
sliding experiments were used as material property inputs to the model, while 
water content was used to calculate initial flow conditions. Tangential force 
and normal displacement data from a three-dimensional simulation of sliding were 
compared with the experiments. The tangential force patterns indicated important 
similarities with the fabricated hydrogels that included an initially high force 
value due to time dependent deformation followed by a decrease in a stabile 
value. A similar trend was observed with the normal displacement. These 
comparisons rendered the model suitable as a representation and were used to 
analyze the development and propagation of stresses in the immediate surface 
region. The results showed that in a three-dimensional stress field during 
sliding, the maximum stress shifted to the surface and rotated closer to the 
leading edge of contact. This occurred because the stress field becomes 
dominated by an amplified compressive stress at the leading edge due to the 
biphasic viscoelastic response of the material during sliding. Also, the complex 
multi-axial contact stress field was reduced to focus predominately on stress in 
the contact surface region in the direction of sliding. The results showed that 
during biphasic viscoelastic frictional sliding, the maximum tensile stress 
develops at the trailing edge of contact and a compressive stress develops at 
the leading edge in the direction of motion. The BLF-PVA hydrogels displayed a 
decrease in this tensile and compressive stress as compared to the standard PVA. 
The diminishment of these stresses would be expected to give the BLF-PVA 
hydrogels lower material wear with greater life expectancy as a synthetic 
articular cartilage implant.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmbbm.2012.06.009
PMID: 22947923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Evol Psychol. 2011 Dec 16;9(4):588-99.

The effect of individual differences and manipulated life expectancies on the 
willingness to engage in sexual coercion.

Dunkel CS(1), Mathes E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Western Illinois University, Macomb, IL, USA. 
c-dunkel@wiu.edu

The role of the individual difference variables of mate value, short-term and 
long-term mating preferences, and life history strategy along with the 
manipulated variable of life expectancy were used to predict differences in the 
willingness to engage in sexually coercive behaviors. Short-term preferences and 
long-term preferences were correlated with the willingness to engage in sexual 
coercion at all life expectancies. Life history strategy was correlated with the 
willingness to engage in sexual coercion at only the shortest and longest life 
expectancies. Most importantly short-term and long-term mating preferences 
interacted with life expectancy to predict the willingness to engage in sexually 
coercive behaviors. Short life expectancies increased willingness in individuals 
with high short-term and low long-term preferences. The results are discussed in 
terms of the varying theories of sexual coercion with emphasis put on a life 
history approach.

PMID: 22947996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Internist (Berl). 2012 Oct;53(10):1157-68. doi: 10.1007/s00108-011-2974-5.

[Antiretroviral treatment of HIV-1 infection].

[Article in German]

Stellbrink HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Infektionsmedizinisches Centrum Hamburg (ICH), Grindelallee 35, 20146, 
Hamburg, Deutschland. stellbrink@ich-hamburg.de

Antiretroviral treatment of HIV-1 infection requires a combination of compounds 
from different drug classes. It aims at life-long virus suppression, resulting 
in prevention of disease progression and improvement of life expectancy as well 
as quality of life. Efficacy, resistance, side effects, drug interactions, and 
patient preferences have to be considered along with factors improving long-term 
high-level adherence. Treatment indication is primarily based on clinical 
symptoms and CD4(+) T-cell count. In view of the perspective of treatment over 
decades, the complexity of therapeutic considerations increases and requires a 
high level of continuing medical education.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-011-2974-5
PMID: 22948343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Transplantation. 2012 Oct 15;94(7):703-13. doi: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3182637078.

Clinical practice guidelines on wait-listing for kidney transplantation: 
consistent and equitable?

Batabyal P(1), Chapman JR, Wong G, Craig JC, Tong A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Kidney Research, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Sydney, NSW, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Transplantation. 2012 Oct 15;94(7):669-70.

BACKGROUND: Apparent variability in wait-listing criteria globally has raised 
concern about inequitable access to kidney transplantation. This study aimed to 
compare the quality, the scope, and the consistency of international guidelines 
on wait-listing for kidney transplantation.
METHODS: Electronic databases and guideline registries were searched to December 
2011. The Appraisal of Guidelines for Research and Evaluation II instrument and 
textual synthesis was used to assess and compare recommendations.
RESULTS: Fifteen guidelines published from 2001 to 2011 were included. 
Methodological rigor and scope were variable. We identified 4 major criteria 
across guidelines: recipient age and life expectancy, medical criteria, social 
and lifestyle circumstances, and psychosocial considerations. Whereas some 
recommendations were consistent, there were differences in age cutoffs, 
estimated life expectancy (2-5 years), and glomerular filtration rate at listing 
(15-20 mL/min/1.73 m). Cardiovascular contraindications were broadly defined. 
Recommended cancer-free periods also varied substantially, and whereas 
uncontrolled infections were universally contraindicated, human immunodeficiency 
virus thresholds and adherence to highly active antiretroviral therapy were 
inconsistent. Most guidelines recommended psychological screening but were not 
augmented with specific clinical assessment tools.
CONCLUSIONS: Wait-listing recommendations in current guidelines are based on 
life expectancy, comorbidities, lifestyle, and psychosocial factors. Some 
recommendations are different across guidelines or broadly defined. There is a 
case for developing comprehensive, methodologically robust, and regularly 
updated guidelines on wait-listing for kidney transplantation.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3182637078
PMID: 22948443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2013 Mar;471(3):735-40. doi:
10.1007/s11999-012-2558-2.

Which implant is best after failed treatment for pathologic femur fractures?

Forsberg JA(1), Wedin R, Bauer H.

Author information:
(1)Regenerative Medicine, Naval Medical Research Center, Silver Spring, MD 
20910, USA. jaforsberg@me.com

BACKGROUND: Successful treatment of pathologic femur fractures can preserve a 
patient's independence and quality of life. The choice of implant depends on 
several disease- and patient-specific variables; however, its durability must 
generally match the patient's estimated life expectancy. Failures do occur, 
however, it is unclear which implants are associated with greater risk of 
failure.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: We evaluated patients with femoral metastases in whom 
implants failed to determine (1) the rate of reoperation; (2) the timing of and 
most common causes for failure; and (3) incidence of perioperative complications 
and death.
METHODS: From a prospectively collected registry, we identified 93 patients 
operated on for failed treatment of femoral metastases from 1990 to 2010. We 
excluded five patients who subsequently underwent amputations leaving 88 who 
underwent salvage procedures. These included intramedullary nails (n = 11), 
endoprostheses (n = 61), and plate fixation (n = 16). The primary outcome was 
reoperation after salvage treatment.
RESULTS: Seventeen of the 88 patients (19%) required subsequent reoperation a 
median of 10 months (interquartile range, 4-14) from the time of salvage 
surgery: 15 for material failure, one for local progression of tumor, and one 
for a combination of these. Five patients died within 4 weeks of surgery. 
Although perioperative complications were higher in the endoprosthesis group and 
dislocations occurred, overall treatment failures after salvage surgery were 
lower in the that group (four of 61) compared the group with plate fixation 
(eight of 16) and intramedullary nail groups (five of 11).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite relatively common perioperative complications, salvage 
using endoprostheses may be associated with fewer treatment failures as compared 
with internal fixation.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, therapeutic study. See Guidelines for Authors for 
a complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-012-2558-2
PMCID: PMC3563804
PMID: 22948531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Biotechnol Bioeng. 2013 Feb;110(2):401-7. doi: 10.1002/bit.24719. Epub 2012
Sep  18.

Characteristics of the binding of a bacterial expansin (BsEXLX1) to 
microcrystalline cellulose.

Kim IJ(1), Ko HJ, Kim TW, Choi IG, Kim KH.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea University, Seoul 136-713, 
Korea.

Plant expansin proteins induce plant cell wall extension and have the ability to 
extend and disrupt cellulose. In addition, these proteins show synergistic 
activity with cellulases during cellulose hydrolysis. BsEXLX1 originating from 
Bacillus subtilis is a structural homolog of a β-expansin produced by Zea mays 
(ZmEXPB1). The Langmuir isotherm for binding of BsEXLX1 to microcrystalline 
cellulose (i.e., Avicel) revealed that the equilibrium binding constant of 
BsEXLX1 to Avicel was similar to those of other Type A surface-binding 
carbohydrate-binding modules (CBMs) to microcrystalline cellulose, and the 
maximum number of binding sites on Avicel for BsEXLX1 was also comparable to 
those on microcrystalline cellulose for other Type A CBMs. BsEXLX1 did not bind 
to cellooligosaccharides, which is consistent with the typical binding behavior 
of Type A CBMs. The preferential binding pattern of a plant expansin, ZmEXPB1, 
to xylan, compared to cellulose was not exhibited by BsEXLX1. In addition, the 
binding capacities of cellulose and xylan for BsEXLX1 were much lower than those 
for CtCBD3.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bit.24719
PMID: 22949138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2012 Jun;51(6):350-8. doi:
10.3340/jkns.2012.51.6.350.  Epub 2012 Jun 30.

Perioperative risk factors related to lumbar spine fusion surgery in korean 
geriatric patients.

Lee JH(1), Chun HJ, Yi HJ, Bak KH, Ko Y, Lee YK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hanyang University Medical Center, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: Life expectancy for humans has increased dramatically and with this 
there has been a considerable increase in the number of patients suffering from 
lumbar spine disease. Symptomatic lumbar spinal disease should be treated, even 
in the elderly, and surgical procedures such as fusion surgery are needed for 
moderate to severe lumbar spinal disease. However, various perioperative 
complications are associated with fusion surgery. The aim of this study was to 
examine perioperative complications and assess risk factors associated with 
lumbar spinal fusion, focusing on geriatric patients at least 70 years of age in 
the Republic of Korea.
METHODS: We retrospectively investigated 489 patients with various lumbar spinal 
diseases who underwent lumbar spinal fusion surgery between 2003 and 2007 at our 
institution. Three fusion procedures and the number of fused segments were 
analyzed in this study. Chronic diseases were also evaluated. Risk factors for 
complications and their association with age were analyzed.
RESULTS: In this study, 74 patients experienced complications (15%). The rate of 
perioperative complications was significantly higher in patients 70 years of age 
or older than in other age groups (univariate analysis, p=0.001; multivariate 
analysis, p=0.004). However, perioperative complications were not significantly 
associated with the other factors tested (sex, comorbidities, operation 
procedures, fusion segments involved).
CONCLUSION: Increasing age was an important risk factor for perioperative 
complications in patients undergoing lumbar spinal fusion surgery whereas other 
factors were not significant. We recommend good clinical judgment and careful 
selection of geriatric patients undergoing lumbar spinal fusion surgery.

DOI: 10.3340/jkns.2012.51.6.350
PMCID: PMC3424175
PMID: 22949964


120. Mod Healthc. 2012 Jun 18;Suppl:22.

Making progress. Life-expectancy gap between races decreasing.

Smith P.

PMID: 22950283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Pharmacoeconomics. 2012 Nov 1;30(11):991-1004. doi: 
10.2165/11597160-000000000-00000.

Omalizumab for the treatment of severe persistent allergic asthma in children 
aged 6-11 years: a NICE single technology appraisal.

Burch J(1), Griffin S, McKenna C, Walker S, Paton J, Wright K, Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination-CRD, University of York, York, UK. 
jane.burch@york.ac.uk

Following a licence extension to include those aged 6-11 years, the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) invited the manufacturer of 
omalizumab (Novartis Pharmaceuticals UK) to submit evidence for the clinical and 
cost effectiveness of this drug for patients with severe persistent allergic 
asthma in this age bracket. NICE had previously considered the use of omalizumab 
in patients aged 12 years and over. The Centre for Reviews and Dissemination 
(CRD) and the Centre for Health Economics (CHE) at the University of York were 
commissioned as the Evidence Review Group (ERG) to critically appraise the 
evidence presented by the manufacturer. This article summarizes that review of 
the evidence, the deliberations of the NICE Appraisal Committee and the 
resulting NICE guidance. The ERG critically reviewed the evidence presented in 
the manufacturer's submission and identified areas requiring clarification, for 
which the manufacturer provided additional evidence. The relevant patient 
population was patients aged 6-11 years of age with severe persistent allergic 
immunoglobulin E-mediated asthma whose condition remained uncontrolled despite 
best standard care with high-dose inhaled corticosteroids and a long-acting 
inhaled β₂-agonist. The main clinical effectiveness data were derived from a 
pre-planned subgroup analysis of a single randomized controlled trial comparing 
omalizumab plus standard therapy against standard therapy alone. At a 52-week 
follow-up, the only outcome to show a statistically significant benefit of 
omalizumab compared with placebo was the number of exacerbations defined as 
'clinically significant' [CS] (relative risk [RR] 0.504; 95% CI 0.350, 0.725; 
p < 0.001). At the ERG's request, the manufacturer provided analyses stratified 
by baseline exacerbation rate, which indicated the effect of omalizumab on CS 
exacerbations was statistically significant only for those children with ≥3 
exacerbations as baseline. The ERG identified a number of issues relating to the 
clinical effectiveness results: it was unclear whether the pre-planned subgroup 
analysis had sufficient power; the definition of CS exacerbation was less severe 
than that used in UK clinical practice; and the method for imputing 
exacerbations for those who withdrew from treatment may have underestimated the 
exacerbation rate. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio based on the 
manufacturer's results was considerably above the threshold range stated in the 
NICE Guide to the Methods of Technology Appraisal. The ERG identified numerous 
issues relating to the cost-effectiveness results, which included the following: 
the 10-year time horizon for treatment may exceed that in clinical practice; the 
assumption of constant exacerbation rates over a lifetime given that adolescence 
is expected to impact on the severity of asthma; and whether it is appropriate 
to use health-related quality-of-life data collected in adults for children. The 
ERG concluded that omalizumab appears to reduce CS exacerbations but there was 
no evidence of improvement in daily symptoms, CS severe (CSS) exacerbations or 
hospitalization rates. The main driver of cost effectiveness was the reduction 
in asthma-related mortality associated with a reduction in CSS exacerbations. As 
the number of CSS exacerbations avoided was low, as is asthma-related mortality 
in children, the potential small gain in QALYs associated with omalizumab was 
not sufficient to compensate for the high treatment cost even under the most 
favourable scenario analyses. The Appraisal Committee recommended that 
omalizumab should not be routinely provided for the treatment of severe 
persistent allergic asthma in children aged 6-11 years.

DOI: 10.2165/11597160-000000000-00000
PMID: 22950547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Australas J Ageing. 2012 Sep;31(3):147-51. doi: 
10.1111/j.1741-6612.2011.00552.x. Epub 2011 Jul 25.

Cities, environmental stressors, ageing and chronic disease.

Black D(1), O'Loughlin K, Kendig H, Wilson L.

Author information:
(1)Ageing, Work and Health Unit, Faculty of Heath Sciences, University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. deborah.black@sydney.edu.au

Comment in
    Australas J Ageing. 2012 Sep;31(3):140.

AIM: This study attempts to identify any association between length of exposure 
to urban environmental risk and non-infectious chronic disease in a group of 
Australian residents who lived in the same location for at least 20 years.
METHODS: Using Australian survey data, we selected 1256 participants who were 45 
years and older and had lived in the same location for at least 20 years. We 
used logistic regression and survival analysis to identify factors associated 
with the presence of non-infectious chronic disease at baseline and after 7 
years.
RESULTS: Results show that increasing age, living in an urban area and living in 
an area with a lower socioeconomic status increase the odds of having a 
long-term health condition.
CONCLUSION: This study provides empirical evidence that older long-term 
Australian urban residents are more likely to have a non-infectious chronic 
disease, which may be associated with environmental exposure, than those living 
in rural locations.

© 2011 The Authors. Australasian Journal on Ageing © 2011 ACOTA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-6612.2011.00552.x
PMID: 22950584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Jan 1;236(1):35-47. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.08.020.
Epub  2012 Aug 20.

High-throughput screening of stem cell therapy for globoid cell leukodystrophy 
using automated neurophenotyping of twitcher mice.

Scruggs BA(1), Bowles AC(2), Zhang X(3), Semon JA(3), Kyzar EJ(4), Myers L(5), 
Kalueff AV(4), Bunnell BA(6).

Author information:
(1)Center for Stem Cell Research and Regenerative Medicine, Tulane University 
School of Medicine, 1430 Tulane Avenue, SL-99, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA; 
Department of Pharmacology, Tulane University School of Medicine, 1430 Tulane 
Avenue, SL-83, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA.
(2)Department of Cell and Molecular Biology, Tulane University, 2000 Percival 
Stern Hall, 6400 Freret Street, New Orleans, LA 70118, USA.
(3)Center for Stem Cell Research and Regenerative Medicine, Tulane University 
School of Medicine, 1430 Tulane Avenue, SL-99, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA.
(4)Department of Pharmacology, Tulane University School of Medicine, 1430 Tulane 
Avenue, SL-83, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA.
(5)Department of Biostatistics & Bioinformatics, Tulane University School of 
Public Health and Tropical Medicine, 1440 Canal Street, Suite 2001, New Orleans, 
LA 70112, USA.
(6)Center for Stem Cell Research and Regenerative Medicine, Tulane University 
School of Medicine, 1430 Tulane Avenue, SL-99, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA; 
Department of Pharmacology, Tulane University School of Medicine, 1430 Tulane 
Avenue, SL-83, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA. Electronic address: 
bbunnell@tulane.edu.

Globoid cell leukodystrophy (Krabbe's disease) is an autosomal recessive 
neurodegenerative disorder that results from the deficiency of 
galactosylceramidase, a lysosomal enzyme involved in active myelination. Due to 
the progressive, lethal nature of this disease and the limited treatment options 
available, multiple laboratories are currently exploring novel therapies using 
the mouse model of globoid cell leukodystrophy. In order to establish a protocol 
for motor function assessment of the twitcher mouse, this study tested the 
capability of an automated system to detect phenotypic differences across mouse 
genotypes and/or treatment groups. The sensitivity of this system as a screening 
tool for the assessment of therapeutic interventions was determined by the 
administration of murine bone marrow-derived stem cells into twitcher mice via 
intraperitoneal injection. Animal behavior was analyzed using the Noldus 
EthoVision XT7 software. Novel biomarkers, including abnormal locomotion (e.g., 
velocity, moving duration, distance traveled, turn angle) and observed behaviors 
(e.g., rearing activity, number of defecation boli), were established for the 
twitcher mouse. These parameters were monitored across all mouse groups, and the 
automated system detected improved locomotion in the treated twitcher mice based 
on the correction of angular velocity, turn angle, moving duration, and 
exploratory behavior, such as thigmotaxis. Further supporting these findings, 
the treated mice showed improved lifespan, gait, wire hang ability, twitching 
severity and frequency, and sciatic nerve histopathology. Taken together, these 
data demonstrate the utility of computer-based neurophenotyping for motor 
function assessment of twitcher mice and support its utility for detecting the 
efficacy of stem cell-based therapy for neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2012.08.020
PMCID: PMC3482265
PMID: 22951180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of Potential Conflicts of Interest No 
potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.


124. Dan Med J. 2012 Sep;59(9):A4495.

Promising results after vacuum-assisted wound closure and mesh-mediated fascial 
traction.

Kleif J(1), Fabricius R, Bertelsen CA, Bruun J, Gögenur I.

Author information:
(1)Kirurgisk Afdeling, Hillerød Hospital, 3400 Hillerød, Denmark. 
kleifen@dadlnet.dk

INTRODUCTION: Patients with an open abdomen (OA) present a major challenge to 
the surgeon. High mortality and associated complication rates have been reported 
depending on the specific method of temporary abdominal closure, the primary 
disorder and any co-morbidity. Vacuum-assisted wound closure and mesh-mediated 
fascial traction (VAWCM) is a novel technique recently introduced for late 
fascial closure of the OA. In previous studies, the disease aetiologies were 
mainly vascular and visceral surgical disease and trauma. We report our results 
using VAWCM in a non-trauma patient population treated with an OA due to 
visceral surgical disease.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Medical records of all patients in our department treated 
with VAWCM during the period from 1 August 2009 to 31 May 2011 were reviewed. 
All sixteen patients were non-trauma patients. The initial treatment was 
vacuum-assisted closure (VAC) (Abdominal Dressing System KCI, San Antonio, 
Texas, USA). VAWCM treatment was initiated if complete fascial closure could not 
be obtained with VAC.
RESULTS: Two patients died of multiple organ failure that was not associated 
with the VAWCM treatment. In one patient, treatment was terminated due to a very 
short life expectancy. We achieved a complete fascial closure rate in seven out 
of 16 patients. One patient had a pancreatic fistula at discharge that was not 
associated with the VAWCM treatment. No enteric fistulas occurred.
CONCLUSION: It seems that VAWCM can improve the rate of complete fascial closure 
after treatment with OA without increasing the mortality or the occurrence of 
enteric fistula compared with other kinds of temporary abdominal closure.
FUNDING: not relevant.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: not relevant.

PMID: 22951196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Iran J Psychiatry. 2010 Fall;5(4):128-33.

How to break bad news: physicians' and nurses' attitudes.

Arbabi M(1), Roozdar A, Taher M, Shirzad S, Arjmand M, Mohammadi MR, Nejatisafa 
AA, Tahmasebi M, Roozdar A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Bad news disclosure is one of the most complex tasks of physicians. 
Recent evidences indicate that patients' and physicians' attitude toward 
breaking bad news has been changed since few years ago. The evidence of breaking 
bad news is different across cultures. The aim of this study is to evaluate the 
attitude of medical staff toward breaking bad news to provide a clinical 
guideline in Iran.
METHODS: A descriptive study was conducted during 2008-2009 on a sample of 100 
medical staff (50 physicians and 50 nurses) at Cancer Institute of Imam Khomeini 
hospital. The subjects' demographic characteristics and their attitudes toward 
the manner of revealing the diagnosis were registered in a questionnaire.
RESULTS: The majority of the physicians (86%, n=43) and nurses (74%, n=37), 
mostly the older and more experienced, tended to reveal the diagnosis to 
patients. Only a few physicians (8%, n=4) had been trained how to disclose bad 
news, which discloused diagnosis more than non trained ones. Physicians and 
nurses preferred to inform the patients about the diagnosis when either the 
patients were alone or in the presence of their spouse respectively. Only a few 
physicians (14%) and nurses (24%) agreed to explain life expectancy to patients.
CONCLUSION: Compared to past, physicians and nurses are more willing to share 
cancer diagnosis with patients. However, lack of adequate communication skills 
in caregivers, and their concerns about managing patients' emotional reactions 
reduce their tendency to disclose bad news to the patients. Therefore, training 
physicians and nurses to expose bad news to the patients seems to be necessary.

PMCID: PMC3395928
PMID: 22952506


126. PLoS One. 2012;7(8):e43254. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043254. Epub 2012 Aug
27.

The limits of mean-field heterozygosity estimates under spatial extension in 
simulated plant populations.

Kitchen JL(1), Allaby RG.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Warwick, Coventry, United Kingdom.

Computational models of evolutionary processes are increasingly required to 
incorporate multiple and diverse sources of data. A popular feature to include 
in population genetics models is spatial extension, which reflects more 
accurately natural populations than does a mean field approach. However, such 
models necessarily violate the mean field assumptions of classical population 
genetics, as do natural populations in the real world. Recently, it has been 
questioned whether classical approaches are truly applicable to the real world. 
Individual based models (IBM) are a powerful and versatile approach to achieve 
integration in models. In this study an IBM was used to examine how populations 
of plants deviate from classical expectations under spatial extension. 
Populations of plants that used three different mating strategies were placed in 
a range of arena sizes giving crowded to sparse occupation densities. Using a 
measure of population density, the pollen communication distance (P(cd)), the 
deviation exhibited by outbreeding populations differed from classical mean 
field expectations by less than 5% when P(cd) was less than 1, and over this 
threshold value the deviation significantly increased. Populations with an 
intermediate mating strategy did not have such a threshold and deviated directly 
with increasing isolation between individuals. Populations with a selfing 
strategy were influenced more by the mating strategy than by increased 
isolation. In all cases pollen dispersal was more influential than seed 
dispersal. The IBM model showed that mean field calculations can be reasonably 
applied to natural outbreeding plant populations that occur at a density in 
which individuals are less than the average pollen dispersal distance from their 
neighbors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0043254
PMCID: PMC3428328
PMID: 22952655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Robin Allaby is an 
Editorial Board Member of PLoS ONE. This does not alter the authors’ adherence 
to all the PLoS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


127. Saf Health Work. 2010 Dec;1(2):112-23. doi: 10.5491/SHAW.2010.1.2.112. Epub
2010  Dec 30.

Shift work and health: current problems and preventive actions.

Costa G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational Health, University of Milano, IRCCS "Ca'Granda - 
Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico" Foundation, Milan, Italy.

The paper gives an overview of the problems to be tackled nowadays by 
occupational health with regards to shift work as well as the main guidelines at 
organizational and medical levels on how to protect workers' health and 
well-being. Working time organization is becoming a key factor on account of new 
technologies, market globalization, economic competition, and extension of 
social services to general populations, all of which involve more and more 
people in continuous assistance and control of work processes over the 24 hours 
in a day. The large increase of epidemiological and clinical studies on this 
issue document the severity of this risk factor on human health and well being, 
at both social and psychophysical levels, starting from a disruption of 
biological circadian rhythms and sleep/wake cycle and ending in several 
psychosomatic troubles and disorders, likely also including cancer, and 
extending to impairment of performance efficiency as well as family and social 
life. Appropriate interventions on the organization of shift schedules according 
to ergonomic criteria and careful health surveillance and social support for 
shift workers are important preventive and corrective measures that allow people 
to keep working without significant health impairment.

DOI: 10.5491/SHAW.2010.1.2.112
PMCID: PMC3430894
PMID: 22953171


128. PLoS Curr. 2012 Jul 10;4:e4f7f6dc013d4e. doi: 10.1371/4f7f6dc013d4e.

Intrastriatal transplantation of neurotrophic factor-secreting human mesenchymal 
stem cells improves motor function and extends survival in R6/2 transgenic mouse 
model for Huntington's disease.

Sadan O, Melamed E, Offen D.

Stem cell-based treatment for Huntington's disease (HD) is an expanding field of 
research. Although various stem cells have been shown to be beneficial in vivo, 
no long standing clinical effect has been demonstrated. To address this issue, 
we are developing a stem cell-based therapy designed to improve the 
