with S. acutus in Bold medium. The population increase rate, derived from growth 
experiments of A. fissa and B. rubens, ranged from 0.1-0.25/d and were 
significantly higher on C vulgaris cultured in liquid fertilizer as compared to 
the other diets. The growth rates of M. macrocopa ranged from 0.1 to 0.38/d, and 
were highest with diets of C. vulgaris cultured in Bold medium and S. acutus 
cultured in fertilizer. Thus, regardless of the culture medium used, the growth 
rates of the evaluated zooplankton species were higher with Chlorella than with 
Scenedesmus. The peak population density was highest (2 800ind/mL) for A. fissa 
fed Chlorella that was cultured on liquid fertilizers, while B. rubens and M. 
macrocopa had peak abundances of 480 and 12ind/mL, respectively under similar 
conditions.

DOI: 10.15517/rbt.v60i3.1750
PMID: 23025072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Rev Biol Trop. 2012 Sep;60(3):1205-16.

[Population structure of Polythore gigantea (Odonata: Polythoridae) in lotic 
systems with different conservation states in Antioquia-Colombia].

[Article in Spanish]

Altamiranda-S M(1), Ortega-M O.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Nacional de Colombia sede Medellín, Grupo de investigación en 
ecología y sistemática de insectos (GIESI), Calle 59A No 63-20, Medellín, 
Colombia. maltamiranda2@gmail.com

The knowledge about population structure and dynamics of some neotropical 
species, especially those living in lotic systems is still barely studied. This 
study had the aim to assess if the conservation status of some lotic systems, is 
related to some demographic variables of P. gigantea, so this may be used as a 
model for ecological monitoring. For this, we evaluated the population structure 
of P. gigantea three times per month (almost one sampling event every eight 
days) in four streams of the state of Antioquia, Colombia, from March-June 2009. 
The specimens were collected using entomological nets along a transect of 200m 
in the littoral zone of each stream. The insects were marked on the wings and 
the population size was estimated with the mark-recapture method. Our results 
showed that the largest population size was recorded for the stream "La 
Catedral" with aprox 299 individuals, followed by the stream "La Doctora" with 
218 individuals. Nevertheless, no significant differences in population size 
among the evaluated streams were found; and no statistical relationships were 
found between vegetation variables and the population size of P. gigantea. 
However, taking into account the limited dispersal capacity of P. gigantea, its 
survival in the studied streams was considered to be at risk, due to the 
continuous modification of large riparian forest areas, which cause the increase 
of forest patches, with different levels of interconnection, and hinder 
long-term permanence of populations.

PMID: 23025091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. J Indian Med Assoc. 2012 Apr;110(4):212-3.

Good health adds life to years.

Ganguly S.

PMID: 23025218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2012 Oct;12(5):645-60. doi: 
10.1586/erp.12.54. Epub 2012 Oct 1.

Cost-effectiveness of vaccinating adults with the 23-valent pneumococcal 
polysaccharide vaccine (PPV23) in Germany.

Jiang Y(1), Gauthier A, Annemans L, van der Linden M, Nicolas-Spony L, Bresse X.

Author information:
(1)Amaris, 1 Water Lane, London NW1 8NZ, UK. yjiang@amaris.com

The introduction of routine infant vaccination against pneumococcal disease has 
resulted in a decreased overall invasive pneumococcal disease incidence in 
adults but also a change in invasive pneumococcal disease serotypes. This study 
aimed to assess the cost-effectiveness of 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide 
vaccine (PPV23) in Germany in this context. A population-based Markov model was 
developed. A cohort of adults currently eligible for vaccination was followed 
until death. Adult vaccination with PPV23 was associated with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of €17,065/quality-adjusted life years gained from the 
third-party payer's perspective. Univariate sensitivity analyses showed that the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was below €50,000/quality-adjusted life 
years gained in most test scenarios. The model suggests that adult PPV23 
vaccination is cost effective in Germany, due to its broad serotype coverage. 
This is despite epidemiological changes in Streptococcus pneumoniae serotypes 
caused by wider use of pneumococcal conjugate vaccines during childhood.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.12.54
PMID: 23025422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Clin Oral Implants Res. 2013 Dec;24(12):1369-74. doi: 10.1111/clr.12034.
Epub  2012 Oct 2.

Longevity of implant crowns and 2-unit cantilevered resin-bonded bridges.

Lam WY(1), Botelho MG, McGrath CP.

Author information:
(1)Oral Rehabilitation, Faculty of Dentistry, University of Hong Kong, Hong 
Kong, China.

OBJECTIVE: To compare "survival" and "success" of implant-supported crowns (ISC) 
and tooth-supported 2-unit cantilevered resin-bonded bridges (cRBB) in the 
rehabilitation of a bounded single tooth space (BSTS), after an observation 
period of ≥5 years.
METHODS: A case-control study among subjects who received ISC or cRBB 
rehabilitation at a teaching hospital. The (i) survival (retention in mouth) and 
(ii) success (absence of complications requiring intervention) for the ISCs and 
cRBBs were compared (overall, supporting structures and that of the prostheses). 
Rates of survival and success were compared using log-rank statistics. 
Prevalence of survival and success (categories) were compared by 
chi-square/Fisher's exact test.
RESULTS: Seventy eight subjects participated in this study (39 ISC and 39 cRBB 
cases). Both had a mean observation time exceeding 100 months, P > 0.05. ISCs 
and cRBBs had similar survival rates: overall (P = 0.96), supporting structures 
(P = 0.14) and prostheses (P = 0.44) There was a significant difference in the 
rate of overall success between ISCs and cRBBs (P = 0.03), specifically with 
respect to the success rate of the supporting structures (P = 0.03). There was 
also a significant difference in the prevalence of supporting structures 
categorized as a "success": ISCs (69.2%) and cRBBs (89.7%), P = 0.03. Biological 
complications of supporting structures were more common among ISCs (25.6%) 
compared with cRBBs (7.7%), P = 0.03.
CONCLUSION: Implant-supported crowns and cRBBs in the rehabilitation of a BSTS 
survive similarly after at least 5 years. However, cRBBs had a higher success 
rate and were more frequently categorized as successful than ISCs. Notably, 
there were fewer biological complications of cRBBs supporting structures than 
ISCs.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/clr.12034
PMID: 23025467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Am Coll Radiol. 2012 Oct;9(10):684-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jacr.2012.06.018.

Roots of health care reform.

Rawson JV(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic, Therapeutic and Interventional Radiology, Georgia 
Health Sciences University, Augusta, GA, USA. jrawson@georgiahealth.edu

The health care reform legislation of 2010 was a response to chronic issues in 
the US health care system that had been unresolved for decades. Whether health 
care reform is implemented in its current form or in a variant, the issues to 
address remain the same. In addition, those issues that have not been 
specifically addressed in national legislation remain areas of potential future 
policy.

Copyright © 2012 American College of Radiology. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacr.2012.06.018
PMID: 23025860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Allergy Asthma Proc. 2012 Sep-Oct;33(5):377-85. doi:
10.2500/aap.2012.33.3599.

Omalizumab: an update on efficacy and safety in moderate-to-severe allergic 
asthma.

Chipps BE(1), Figliomeni M, Spector S.

Author information:
(1)Capital Allergy & Respiratory Disease Center, Sacramento, CA 95819, USA. 
bchipps@capitalallergy.com

Omalizumab is an anti-immunoglobulin E (anti-IgE) monoclonal antibody approved 
in the United States since 2003 for treatment of moderate-to-severe allergic 
asthma in adults and adolescents (aged ≥12 years) inadequately controlled with 
inhaled corticosteroids (ICSs). Current treatment guidelines recommend 
considering the addition of omalizumab if allergic asthma symptoms are not 
adequately controlled with high-dose ICS + long-acting beta-agonist (LABA) 
therapy. This study was designed to review the clinical efficacy and safety of 
omalizumab as established in previously published pivotal clinical trials used 
to support registration in the United States, i.e., primarily including patients 
receiving only concomitant ICS therapy, as well as results from the recently 
completed additional study, which specifically enrolled patients who were poorly 
controlled despite high-dose ICS + LABA therapy ± additional controllers 
(including oral corticosteroids [OCSs]). Summary of published omalizumab pivotal 
trials and associated extension trials, plus key results from the additional 
study, were used. Pediatric data (i.e., <12 years) were outside the scope of 
this article. Treatment with omalizumab significantly reduced asthma 
exacerbations versus placebo when added to ICS therapy during both 
steroid-stable and steroid-reduction phases of two pivotal trials. In the 
additional study, omalizumab significantly reduced asthma exacerbation rates 
versus placebo when added to high-dose ICS + LABA therapy with or without other 
controller medications. Results from the additional clinical study further 
support current asthma guideline recommendations to consider omalizumab in steps 
5 or 6 for persistent allergic asthma patients whose symptoms are not adequately 
controlled despite high-dose ICS + LABA therapy ± additional controllers 
(including OCS).

DOI: 10.2500/aap.2012.33.3599
PMID: 23026179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Int J Psychophysiol. 2013 Mar;87(3):234-43. doi:
10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2012.09.009.  Epub 2012 Sep 28.

Stop or stop-change--does it make any difference for the inhibition process?

Boecker M(1), Gauggel S, Drueke B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology and Medical Sociology, RWTH Aachen 
University, Germany. mboecker@ukaachen.de

In the course of daily living altering environmental conditions or changing 
internal states often cause us to abandon obsolete planned or initiated actions 
and force us to update our behavior. The stop-change paradigm, an extension of 
the very popular stop-signal paradigm, allows the investigation of response 
inhibition and response re-engagement in a laboratory setting. This is very 
important as everyday life rarely calls for the complete suppression of actions 
without subsequent behavioral adjustment. The present review first gives a short 
overview on stop-signal inhibition and its behavioral and neural models before 
summarizing the findings in the stop-change domain. In doing so, this review 
shall contribute to a better understanding of the functional and neural 
architecture of response inhibition and re-engagement. Moreover, the question is 
raised whether the same or different inhibition process(es) are involved in 
stop-signal- and stop-change inhibition.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpsycho.2012.09.009
PMID: 23026439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Clin Drug Investig. 2012 Dec;32(12):805-15. doi: 10.1007/s40261-012-0008-2.

Lifetime cost-utility analyses of deferasirox in beta-thalassaemia patients with 
chronic iron overload: a UK perspective.

Karnon J(1), Tolley K, Vieira J, Chandiwana D.

Author information:
(1)University of Adelaide, Adelaide, Australia. jonathan.karnon@adelaide.edu.au

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Regular blood transfusions for beta-thalassaemia 
patients lead to the accumulation of iron deposits in the body. In order to 
remove such deposits, iron chelation therapy is required. Subcutaneously 
administered deferoxamine has been the gold standard chelation therapy for over 
40 years. Deferasirox is a newer chelation therapy that is taken orally once 
daily. The objective of this study was to estimate the long-term costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) associated with deferoxamine and deferasirox 
in a cohort of transfusion-dependent beta-thalassaemia patients from a UK health 
service perspective.
METHODS: A 50-year annual cycle state transition model comprised three core 
health states: alive without cardiac complications, alive with cardiac 
complications, and dead, as well as representing other chronic complications of 
iron overload: diabetes, hypogonadism, hypoparathyroidism and hypothyroidism. 
The model was calibrated to identify sets of convergent input parameter values 
that predicted observed overall survival by mean lifetime compliance with 
chelation therapy. A pivotal non-inferiority trial informed the main estimates 
of the effectiveness of deferasirox, which were applied to the calibrated model. 
Using cost values for the year 2011, costs and utilities were summed over 
patients' lifetimes to estimate lifetime costs and QALY gains.
RESULTS: Mean lifetime treatment costs for patients receiving deferoxamine were 
£70,000 higher than deferasirox. Drug acquisition costs were £100,000 higher for 
deferasirox, but administration costs associated with deferoxamine were £170,000 
higher. Higher compliance associated with oral deferasirox administration led to 
fewer complications. Combined with the quality-of-life effects of an oral mode 
of administration, an average gain of 4.85 QALYs for deferasirox was estimated. 
In the base case, deferasirox dominates deferoxamine, i.e., costs less and 
patients gain more QALYs. The key parameter is the proportion of deferoxamine 
patients using balloon infusers. Sensitivity analyses showed that even when the 
proportion of patients using balloon infusers is decreased from 79 to 25 %, the 
incremental cost per QALY gained remains well under £20,000.
CONCLUSION: Higher drug acquisition costs for deferasirox are offset by the 
avoidance of infusion-related equipment costs. Combined with health benefits 
derived from an oral mode of administration and improved compliance, deferasirox 
has a high probability of being a cost-effective intervention compared with 
deferoxamine.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-012-0008-2
PMID: 23026844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. J Public Health (Oxf). 2013 Mar;35(1):139-46. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fds058.
Epub  2012 Sep 30.

An economic evaluation of screening 60- to 70-year-old adults for hearing loss.

Morris AE(1), Lutman ME, Cook AJ, Turner D.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Wessex Deanery, Winchester SO21 2RU, UK. 
annamorris2@nhs.net

BACKGROUND: Hearing loss is common among older adults and has consequences for 
sufferers, families and society, but there is substantial unmet need for 
intervention. Screening could expedite intervention and improve outcomes.
METHODS: We use Markov models to estimate the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) of potential screening programmes compared with current provision 
(GP-referral), from a health service perspective. Alternative options are 
investigated through scenario analysis. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses are undertaken.
RESULTS: All modelled screens are cost-effective and reduce unmet need for 
hearing aids. The most cost-effective option identified is a one-stage 
audiometric screen for bilateral hearing loss ≥30 dB hearing level (HL) at age 
60, repeated at ages 65 and 70. This option has an ICER of £1461 compared to 
GP-referral and would mean an additional 15 437 adults benefiting from hearing 
intervention per 100 000 population aged 60. The cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curve shows that screening is more cost-effective than GP-referral 
provided a Quality Adjusted Life Year is valued at £2000 or more.
CONCLUSIONS: Adult hearing screening would provide a cost-effective way to 
improve quality of life for older adults. We recommend piloting an audiometric 
screen offered to all adults age 60, 65 and 70 years to identify bilateral 
hearing loss of at least 30 dB HL.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fds058
PMID: 23027734 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Fam Pract. 2013 Apr;30(2):179-84. doi: 10.1093/fampra/cms064. Epub 2012 Oct
1.

Does prevention of risk behaviour in primary care require a gender-specific 
approach? A cross-sectional study.

Vos HM(1), Schellevis FG, van den Berkmortel H, van den Heuvel LG, Bor HH, 
Lagro-Janssen AL.

Author information:
(1)Women's Studies in Medicine, Radboud University, Nijmegen Medical Centre, 
Department of Primary and Community Care, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. 
hmmvos@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: In planning a prevention programme, it is important to know to what 
extent gender, risk behaviour and GP consultation need to be taken into account.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether gender plays a role in the relation between risk 
behaviour and use of GP services.
METHODS: The data used in this study originate from the Second Dutch National 
Survey of General Practice of 2000-02. We used respondent interviews in three 
age groups: 555 respondents aged 18-22; 1005 respondents aged 45-49; and 536 
respondents aged 70-74. We studied smoking, alcohol abuse, excessive alcohol 
intake, use of soft drugs, overweight and insufficient physical exercise in 
relation to use of primary care and gender.
RESULTS: Almost all risk behaviours were more prevalent in men. Of all studied 
risk behaviours, only smoking was related to yearly GP contact and consultation 
frequency in relation to gender. Smoking men consulted their GP significantly 
less frequently than non-smoking men, whereas in women, the opposite was the 
case.
CONCLUSIONS: Both rates of consultation and yearly contact were significantly 
lower in smoking men than in smoking women. Preventive actions by means of 
case-finding, therefore, are less attainable in men than in women. This outcome 
may create a double setback for Dutch men, as smoking is a major cause of lower 
life expectancy in men. Recent data show that under-representation of men among 
consulters in general practice and excess of smoking men still exist in the 
Netherlands. This confirms the actual relevance of our findings although these 
were obtained 10years ago.

DOI: 10.1093/fampra/cms064
PMID: 23027999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. PLoS Comput Biol. 2012;8(9):e1002630. doi: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002630.
Epub  2012 Sep 13.

Predicting the extension of biomedical ontologies.

Pesquita C(1), Couto FM.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sciences, University of Lisboa, Lisboa, Portugal. 
cpesquita@xldb.di.fc.ul.pt

Developing and extending a biomedical ontology is a very demanding task that can 
never be considered complete given our ever-evolving understanding of the life 
sciences. Extension in particular can benefit from the automation of some of its 
steps, thus releasing experts to focus on harder tasks. Here we present a 
strategy to support the automation of change capturing within ontology extension 
where the need for new concepts or relations is identified. Our strategy is 
based on predicting areas of an ontology that will undergo extension in a future 
version by applying supervised learning over features of previous ontology 
versions. We used the Gene Ontology as our test bed and obtained encouraging 
results with average f-measure reaching 0.79 for a subset of biological process 
terms. Our strategy was also able to outperform state of the art change 
capturing methods. In addition we have identified several issues concerning 
prediction of ontology evolution, and have delineated a general framework for 
ontology extension prediction. Our strategy can be applied to any biomedical 
ontology with versioning, to help focus either manual or semi-automated 
extension methods on areas of the ontology that need extension.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pcbi.1002630
PMCID: PMC3441454
PMID: 23028267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


321. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e44774. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0044774. Epub 2012 Sep
17.

Cost-effectiveness of the third-agent class in treatment-naive human 
immunodeficiency virus-infected patients in Portugal.

Aragão F(1), Vera J, Vaz Pinto I.

Author information:
(1)Escola Nacional de Saúde Pública, Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Lisboa, 
Lisboa, Portugal. filipaaragao@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Current Portuguese HIV treatment guidelines recommend initiating 
antiretroviral therapy with a regimen composed of two Nucleoside Reverse 
Transcriptase Inhibitors plus one Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor 
(2NRTI+NNRTI) or two Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors plus one 
boosted protease inhibitor (2NRTI+PI/r). Given the lower daily cost of NNRTI as 
the third agent when compared to the average daily costs of PI/r, it is relevant 
to estimate the long term impact of each treatment option in the Portuguese 
context.
METHODS: We developed a microsimulation discrete events model for 
cost-effectiveness analysis of HIV treatment, simulating individual paths from 
ART initiation to death. Four driving forces determine the course of events: 
CD4+ cell count, viral load, resistance and adherence. Distributions of time to 
event are conditional to individuals' characteristics and past history. Time to 
event was modeled using parametric survival analysis using Stata 11®. Disease 
progression was structured according to therapy lines and the model was 
parameterized with cohort Portuguese observational data. All resources were 
valued at 2009 prices. The National Health Service's perspective was assumed 
considering a lifetime horizon and a 5% annual discount rate.
RESULTS: In this analysis, initiating therapy with two Nucleoside Reverse 
Transcriptase Inhibitors plus one Non-nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor 
reduces the average number of switches by 17%, saves 19.573€ per individual and 
increases life expectancy by 1.7 months showing to be a dominant strategy in 57% 
of the simulations when compared to two Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase 
Inhibitors plus one boosted protease inhibitor.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that, when clinically valid, initiating therapy 
with two Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors plus one Non-nucleoside 
Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitor is a cost-saving strategy and equally effective 
when compared to two Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors plus one 
boosted protease inhibitor as the first regimen.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0044774
PMCID: PMC3444496
PMID: 23028618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors' have read the 
journal's policy and have the following conflicts: FA has received consultancy 
fees and travel grants from Gilead Sciences, paid scientific work from Escola 
Nacional de Saude Publica and Janssen-Cilag. FA has received grants from 
Fundação para a Ciência e Tecnologia. FA is a volunteer at the non-governmental 
organization Associação SER+ and earns no financial or other benefits as a 
result of such affiliation. JV has received consultancy fees, travel grants and 
honoraria for speaking or participation at meetings from ViiV Healthcare, 
Boheringer Ingelheim, MSD, Gilead Sciencies, BMS, Abbott and Janssen. IVP has 
received travel grants and honoraria for speaking or participation at meetings 
from ViiV Healthcare, Boheringer Ingelheim, MSD, Gilead Sciencies, BMS, Abbott 
and Janssen. This does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLoS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials.


322. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e45176. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045176. Epub 2012 Sep
18.

Cost effectiveness of screening strategies for early identification of HIV and 
HCV infection in injection drug users.

Cipriano LE(1), Zaric GS, Holodniy M, Bendavid E, Owens DK, Brandeau ML.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management Science and Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, California, USA. Lauren.Cipriano@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost, effectiveness, and cost effectiveness of HIV 
and HCV screening of injection drug users (IDUs) in opioid replacement therapy 
(ORT).
DESIGN: Dynamic compartmental model of HIV and HCV in a population of IDUs and 
non-IDUs for a representative U.S. urban center with 2.5 million adults (age 
15-59).
METHODS: We considered strategies of screening individuals in ORT for HIV, HCV, 
or both infections by antibody or antibody and viral RNA testing. We evaluated 
one-time and repeat screening at intervals from annually to once every 3 months. 
We calculated the number of HIV and HCV infections, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: Adding HIV and HCV viral RNA testing to antibody testing averts 
14.8-30.3 HIV and 3.7-7.7 HCV infections in a screened population of 26,100 IDUs 
entering ORT over 20 years, depending on screening frequency. Screening for HIV 
antibodies every 6 months costs $30,700/QALY gained. Screening for HIV 
antibodies and viral RNA every 6 months has an ICER of $65,900/QALY gained. 
Strategies including HCV testing have ICERs exceeding $100,000/QALY gained 
unless awareness of HCV-infection status results in a substantial reduction in 
needle-sharing behavior.
DISCUSSION: Although annual screening for antibodies to HIV and HCV is modestly 
cost effective compared to no screening, more frequent screening for HIV 
provides additional benefit at less cost. Screening individuals in ORT every 3-6 
months for HIV infection using both antibody and viral RNA technologies and 
initiating ART for acute HIV infection appears cost effective.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045176
PMCID: PMC3445468
PMID: 23028828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


323. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e45503. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045503. Epub 2012 Sep
20.

Unlike physical exercise, modified environment increases the lifespan of 
SOD1G93A mice however both conditions induce cellular changes.

Gerber YN(1), Sabourin JC, Hugnot JP, Perrin FE.

Author information:
(1)INSERM U1051, Institute for Neurosciences of Montpellier, Pathologies 
Sensorielles, Neuroplasticité et Thérapies, Saint-Eloi Hospital, Montpellier, 
France.

BACKGROUND: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is characterized by a gradual 
muscular paralysis resulting from progressive motoneurons death. ALS etiology 
remains unknown although it has been demonstrated to be a multifactorial disease 
involving several cellular partners. There is currently no effective treatment. 
Even if the effect of exercise is under investigation for many years, whether 
physical exercise is beneficial or harmful is still under debate.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We investigated the effect of three different intensities 
of running exercises on the survival of SOD1(G93A) mice. At the 
early-symptomatic stage (P60), males were isolated and randomly assigned to 5 
conditions: 2 sedentary groups ("sedentary" and "sedentary treadmill" placed on 
the inert treadmill), and 3 different training intensity groups (5 cm/s, 10 cm/s 
and 21 cm/s; 15 min/day, 5days/week). We first demonstrated that an appropriate 
"control" of the environment is of the utmost importance since comparison of the 
two sedentary groups evidenced an 11.6% increase in survival in the "sedentary 
treadmill" group. Moreover, we showed by immunohistochemistry that this 
increased lifespan is accompanied with motoneurons survival and increased glial 
reactivity in the spinal cord. In a second step, we showed that when compared 
with the proper control, all three running-based training did not modify 
lifespan of the animals, but result in motoneurons preservation and changes in 
glial cells activation.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: We demonstrate that increase in survival induced by a 
slight daily modification of the environment is associated with motoneurons 
preservation and strong glial modifications in the lumbar spinal cord of 
SOD1(G93A). Using the appropriate control, we then demonstrate that all running 
intensities have no effect on the survival of ALS mice but induce cellular 
modifications. Our results highlight the critical importance of the control of 
the environment in ALS studies and may explain discrepancy in the literature 
regarding the effect of exercise in ALS.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0045503
PMCID: PMC3447796
PMID: 23029057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


324. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e46434. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046434. Epub 2012 Sep
28.

Survival and population dynamics of the marabou stork in an isolated population, 
Swaziland.

Monadjem A(1), Kane A, Botha A, Dalton D, Kotze A.

Author information:
(1)All Out Africa Research Unit, Department of Biological Sciences, University 
of Swaziland, Kwaluseni, Swaziland. ara@uniswa.sz

Investigating the ecology of long lived birds is particularly challenging owing 
to the time scales involved. Here an analysis is presented of a long term study 
of the survival and population dynamics of the marabou stork (Leptoptilos 
crumeniferus), a wide ranging scavenging bird from Sub-Saharan Africa. Using 
resightings data of tagged nestlings and free flying birds we show that the 
stork population can be divided into three general life stages with unique 
survival probabilities and fecundities. Fecundity of the storks is inversely 
related to rainfall during their breeding season. Corroborative evidence for a 
metapopulation structure is discussed highlighting the impact of the Swaziland 
birds on the ecology of the species in the broader region. The importance of tag 
loss or illegibility over time is highlighted. Clearly, any attempt at 
conserving a species will require a detailed understanding of its population 
structure, of the sort examined here.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0046434
PMCID: PMC3460887
PMID: 23029517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


325. Indian J Physiol Pharmacol. 2012 Jan-Mar;56(1):63-8.

Effect of yoga practices on pulmonary function tests including transfer factor 
of lung for carbon monoxide (TLCO) in asthma patients.

Singh S(1), Soni R, Singh KP, Tandon OP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, University College of Medical Sciences & Guru Teg 
Bahadur Hospital, Dilshad Garden, Delhi, India.

Prana is the energy, when the self-energizing force embraces the body with 
extension and expansion and control, it is pranayama. It may affect the milieu 
at the bronchioles and the alveoli particularly at the alveolo-capillary 
membrane to facilitate diffusion and transport of gases. It may also increase 
oxygenation at tissue level. Aim of our study is to compare pulmonary functions 
and diffusion capacity in patients of bronchial asthma before and after yogic 
intervention of 2 months. Sixty stable asthmatic-patients were randomized into 
two groups i.e group 1 (Yoga training group) and group 2 (control group). Each 
group included thirty patients. Lung functions were recorded on all patients at 
baseline, and then after two months. Group 1 subjects showed a statistically 
significant improvement (P<0.001) in Transfer factor of the lung for carbon 
monoxide (TLCO), forced vital capacity (FVC), forced expiratory volume in 1st 
sec (FEV1), peak expiratory flow rate (PEFR), maximum voluntary ventilation 
(MVV) and slow vital capacity (SVC) after yoga practice. Quality of life also 
increased significantly. It was concluded that pranayama & yoga breathing and 
stretching postures are used to increase respiratory stamina, relax the chest 
muscles, expand the lungs, raise energy levels, and calm the body.

PMID: 23029966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Health Soc Work. 2012 May;37(2):67-70. doi: 10.1093/hsw/hls009.

Why we should keep the social security retirement age.

Gorin SH.

DOI: 10.1093/hsw/hls009
PMID: 23029973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Disabil Rehabil. 2013 Jun;35(13):1097-103. doi:
10.3109/09638288.2012.718407.  Epub 2012 Oct 3.

Active LifestyLe Rehabilitation interventions in aging spinal cord injury 
(ALLRISC): a multicentre research program.

van der Woude LH(1), de Groot S, Postema K, Bussmann JB, Janssen TW; ALLRISC; 
Post MW.

Collaborators: Adriaansen J, Kooijmans H, van der Scheer J, Bakkum A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Human Movement Sciences, University Medical Centre Groningen, 
University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. l.h.v.van.der.woude@umcg.nl

BACKGROUND: With today's specialized medical care, life expectancy of persons 
with a spinal cord injury (SCI) has considerably improved. With increasing age 
and time since injury, many individuals with SCI, however, show a serious 
inactive lifestyle, associated with deconditioning and secondary health 
conditions (SHCs) (e.g. pressure sores, urinary and respiratory tract 
infections, osteoporosis, upper-extremity pain, obesity, diabetes, 
cardiovascular disease) and resulting in reduced participation and quality of 
life (QoL). Avoiding this downward spiral, is crucial.
OBJECTIVES: To understand possible deconditioning and SHCs in persons aging with 
a SCI in the context of active lifestyle, fitness, participation and QoL and to 
examine interventions that enhance active lifestyle, fitness, participation and 
QoL and help prevent some of the SHCs.
METHODS: A multicentre multidisciplinary research program (Active LifestyLe 
Rehabilitation Interventions in aging Spinal Cord injury, ALLRISC) in the 
setting of the long-standing Dutch SCI-rehabilitation clinical research network.
RESULTS: ALLRISC is a four-study research program addressing inactive lifestyle, 
deconditioning, and SHCs and their associations in people aging with SCI. The 
program consists of a cross-sectional study (n = 300) and three randomized 
clinical trials. All studies share a focus on fitness, active lifestyle, SHCs 
and deconditioning and outcome measures on these and other (participation, QoL) 
domains. It is hypothesized that a self-management program, low-intensity 
wheelchair exercise and hybrid functional electrical stimulation-supported leg 
and handcycling are effective interventions to enhance active life style and 
fitness, help to prevent some of the important SHCs in chronic SCI and improve 
participation and QoL.
CONCLUSION: ALLRISC aims to provide evidence-based preventive components of a 
rehabilitation aftercare system that preserves functioning in aging persons with 
SCI.

DOI: 10.3109/09638288.2012.718407
PMID: 23030594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. J Spinal Cord Med. 2012 Sep;35(5):361-70. doi:
10.1179/2045772312Y.0000000046.

Impact of impairment and secondary health conditions on health preference among 
Canadians with chronic spinal cord injury.

Craven C(1), Hitzig SL, Mittmann N.

Author information:
(1)Lyndhurst Centre, Toronto Rehabilitation Institute, University Health 
Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Cathy.craven@uhn.ca

CONTEXT/OBJECTIVES: To describe the relationships between secondary health 
conditions and health preference in a cohort of adults with chronic spinal cord 
injury (SCI).
STUDY DESIGN: Cross-sectional telephone survey.
SETTING: Community.
PARTICIPANTS: Community-dwelling adult men and women (N = 357) with chronic 
traumatic and non-traumatic SCI (C1-L3 AIS A-D) who were at least 1 year 
post-injury/onset.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Health Utilities Index-Mark III (HUI-Mark III) and SCI 
Secondary Conditions Scale-Modified (SCS-M).
RESULTS: SCS-M responses for different secondary health conditions were used to 
create "low impact = absent/mild" and "high impact = moderate/significant" 
secondary health condition groups. Analysis of covariance was used to examine 
differences in HUI-Mark III scores for different secondary health conditions 
while controlling for impairment. The mean HUI-Mark III was 0.24 (0.27, range, 
-0.28 to 1.00). HUI-Mark III scores were lower (P < 0.001) in high impact groups 
for spasms, bladder and bowel dysfunction, urinary tract infections, autonomic 
dysreflexia, circulatory problems, respiratory problems, chronic pain, joint 
pain, psychological distress, and depression compared with the low impact 
groups. As well, HUI-Mark III scores were lower (P < 0.05) in high impact groups 
for pressure sores, unintentional injuries, contractures, heterotopic bone 
ossification, sexual dysfunction, postural hypotension, cardiac problems, and 
neurological deterioration than low-impact groups.
CONCLUSION: High-impact secondary health conditions are negatively associated 
with health preference in persons with SCI. Although further work is required, 
the HUI-Mark III data may be a useful tool for calculating quality-adjusted life 
years, and advocating for additional resources where secondary health conditions 
have substantial adverse impact on health.

DOI: 10.1179/2045772312Y.0000000046
PMCID: PMC3459565
PMID: 23031173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Oct 2;12:346. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-346.

Cost-effectiveness of compression technologies for evidence-informed leg ulcer 
care: results from the Canadian Bandaging Trial.

Pham B(1), Harrison MB, Chen MH, Carley ME; Canadian Bandaging Trial Group.

Author information:
(1)Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment Collaborative, Department 
of Health Policy Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, Leslie Dan 
Pharmacy Building, 6th floor, Room 651, 144 College Street, Toronto, ON, M5S 3 
M2, Canada. ba.pham@theta.utoronto.ca

BACKGROUND: Venous leg ulcers, affecting approximately 1% of the population, are 
costly to manage due to poor healing and high recurrence rates. We evaluated an 
evidence-informed leg ulcer care protocol with two frequently used high 
compression systems: 'four-layer bandage' (4LB) and 'short-stretch bandage' 
(SSB).
METHODS: We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis using individual patient 
data from the Canadian Bandaging Trial, a publicly funded, pragmatic, randomized 
trial evaluating high compression therapy with 4LB (n = 215) and SSB (n = 209) 
for community care of venous leg ulcers. We estimated costs (in 2009-2010 
Canadian dollars) from the societal perspective and used a time horizon 
corresponding to each trial participant's first year.
RESULTS: Relative to SSB, 4LB was associated with an average 15 ulcer-free days 
gained, although the 95% confidence interval [-32, 21 days] crossed zero, 
indicating no treatment difference; an average health benefit of 0.009 QALYs 
gained [-0.019, 0.037] and overall, an average cost increase of $420 [$235, 
$739] (due to twice as many 4LB bandages used); or equivalently, a cost of 
$46,667 per QALY gained. If decision makers are willing to pay from $50,000 to 
$100,000 per QALY, the probability of 4LB being more cost effective increased 
from 51% to 63%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings differ from the emerging clinical and economic 
evidence that supports high compression therapy with 4LB, and therefore suggest 
another perspective on high compression practice, namely when delivered by 
trained registered nurses using an evidence-informed protocol, both 4LB and SSB 
systems offer comparable effectiveness and value for money.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-346
PMCID: PMC3532083
PMID: 23031428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. J Cardiovasc Med (Hagerstown). 2013 Sep;14(9):683-5. doi: 
10.2459/JCM.0b013e328358fdc4.

Dabigatran in atrial fibrillation: incremental benefit over a time horizon of 5 
or 10 years.

Messori A, Fadda V, Maratea D, Trippoli S.

DOI: 10.2459/JCM.0b013e328358fdc4
PMID: 23032961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2012 Oct;137(41):2117-22. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1305332.
 Epub 2012 Oct 2.

[Testosterone in old age: an up-date].

[Article in German]

Hilbert-Walter A(1), Büttner R, Sieber C, Bollheimer C.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin 2 - Geriatrie des Klinikums Nürnberg, Nürnberg.

Contrasting the relatively abrupt hormonal changes during female menopause, male 
reproductive function gradually declines during aging. This leads to the formal 
diagnosis of androgen deficiency in many apparently healthy 80-year-old men, 
when conventional thresholds are applied, and consequently to the question of 
androgen substitution in geriatric medicine. Although many clinical studies have 
documented a correlation between low plasma testosterone levels and mortality a 
clear causal relationship - which would imply immanent substitution therapy - 
has not been demonstrated. With this in mind, the diagnosis of late-onset 
hypogonadism (LOH) should only be made when testosterone-deficiency related 
symptoms concur with low testosterone levels. Which exact symptoms justify the 
diagnosis of LOH, however, is not sharply defined. Using criteria defined in the 
recent EMAS study, LOH might even be an over-diagnosed entity without huge 
relevance in geriatrics. Low testosterone levels are associated with frailty, 
but testosterone supplementation has only shown limited effects on age-related 
sarcopenia. Moreover: the increased incidence of cardiovascular events in the 
TOM study should be a caveat and lead to a moratorium for uncritical 
testosterone supplementation in aging men with cardiovascular diseases.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1305332
PMID: 23033170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. BMJ. 2012 Oct 2;345:e6608. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e6608.

Charity calls for NHS to commission services to improve health of homeless 
people.

Kmietowicz Z.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e6608
PMID: 23033366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2012 May-Jun;(3):27-31.

[The preventable losses because of rural population mortality].

[Article in Russian]

[No authors listed]

The common and special issues of mortality in the Republic of Bashkortostan are 
established The analysis of tendencies and ratio of leading causes of gender 
proportions of mortality of urban and rural population established that in 
comparison with the national data the characteristics of the Republic of 
Bashkortostan are determined by higher life span rate of rural population and 
lower share in the structure of mortality due to traumas and intoxications, 
digestive apparatus diseases and neoplasms. At the same time, the quality of 
diagnostics in the Republic of Bashkortostan is inadequate due to large share of 
inaccurately specified states. The expertise survey revealed high degree of 
preventability of losses related to high mortality of rural population. The 
reserves to decrease preventable mortality of rural population are established 
on the basis of calculated preventability coefficients. The possibility of 
decreasing mortality of main classes of death causes based on the mathematical 
modeling is analyzed. It is demonstrated that in the Republic of Bashkortostan 
the mortality rate will significantly decrease only concerning cardiovascular 
disease and external causes. The coefficients of preventability of death main 
causes of rural population of the Republic of Bashkortostan are analyzed.

PMID: 23033574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Rev Psiquiatr Salud Ment. 2009 Mar;2(1):49-59. doi: 
10.1016/S1888-9891(09)70714-1. Epub 2009 May 6.

Cardiovascular disease and diabetes in people with severe mental illness.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Hert MD(1), Dekker JM, Wood D, Kahl KG, Möller HJ.

Author information:
(1)University Psychiatric Centre, Catholic University Leuven campus Kortenberg, 
Kortenberg, Bélgica. Electronic address: marc.de.hert@uc-kortenberg.be.

Position statement from the European Psychiatric Association (EPA), supported by 
the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) and the European 
Society of Cardiology (ESC). People with severe mental illnesses, such as 
schizophrenia, depression or bipolar disorder, have worse physical health and 
reduced life expectancy compared to the general population. The excess 
cardiovascular mortality associated with schizophrenia and bipolar disorder is 
attributed to an increased risk of the modifiable coronary heart disease risk 
factors, obesity, smoking, diabetes, hypertension, and dyslipidaemia. 
Antipsychotic medication and possibly other psychotropic medication like 
antidepressants can induce weight gain and further increase the risk of adverse 
metabolic effects which may result in further increased incidence of 
cardiovascular disease. Patients have limited access to general healthcare with 
less opportunity for cardiovascular risk screening and prevention than would be 
expected in a non-psychiatric population. The European Psychiatric Association 
(EPA), supported by the European Association for the Study of Diabetes (EASD) 
and the European Society of Cardiology (ESC) published this statement aiming to 
improve the care of patients suffering from severe mental illness. The intention 
is to initiate co-operation and shared care between the different health care 
professionals and to increase the awareness of psychiatrists caring for patients 
suffering from severe mental illness to screen and treat increased 
cardiovascular risk factors and diabetes.

Copyright © 2009 Sociedad Española de Psiquiatría and Sociedad Española de 
Psiquiatría Biológica. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1888-9891(09)70714-1
PMID: 23034198


335. Nat Rev Mol Cell Biol. 2012 Nov;13(11):713-26. doi: 10.1038/nrm3448. Epub
2012  Oct 4.

Induced pluripotent stem cells: the new patient?

Bellin M(1), Marchetto MC, Gage FH, Mummery CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Embryology, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.

Worldwide increases in life expectancy have been paralleled by a greater 
prevalence of chronic and age-associated disorders, particularly of the 
cardiovascular, neural and metabolic systems. This has not been met by 
commensurate development of new drugs and therapies, which is in part owing to 
the difficulty in modelling human diseases in laboratory assays or experimental 
animals. Patient-specific induced pluripotent stem (iPS) cells are an emerging 
paradigm that may address this. Reprogrammed somatic cells from patients are 
already applied in disease modelling, drug testing and drug discovery, thus 
enabling researchers to undertake studies for treating diseases 'in a dish', 
which was previously inconceivable.

DOI: 10.1038/nrm3448
PMID: 23034453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Harv Womens Health Watch. 2012 Sep;20(1):1, 7.

What's the beef with meat? Why too many burgers and steaks might shorten your 
life.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 23035321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Proc Am Philos Soc. 2012 Mar;156(1):9-44.

Evolution of the human lifespan, past, present, and future: phases in the 
evolution of human life expectancy in relation to the inflammatory load.

Finch CE(1).

Author information:
(1)Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, USA. 
cefinch@usc.edu

PMID: 23035388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Lik Sprava. 2012 Jan-Mar;(1-2):68-74.

[Angiographic evaluation of coronary vessels in patients with diabetes mellitus 
type 2 and myocardial infarction].

[Article in Russian]

Shatokhina IV.

High risk of vascular complications in diabetes foundation gave the American 
Heart Association ranked diabetes to diseases of the cardiovascular system. More 
than 60% of patients with type 2 diabetes life expectancy will be reduced by the 
development of their coronary artery disease, diabetes was an independent factor 
that increases the risk of myocardial infarction (2-3 times), stroke (more than 
2 times) independently of other known risk factors for cardiovascular disease, 
and acute coronary events are characterized by the extremely serious nature 
against the background of pronounced coronary atherosclerosis. In the present 
study, a comparative assessment of the frequency of coronary vessels of 
different severity in patients with myocardial infarction in the presence of 
diabetes and without. Status of the coronary vessels were studied by means of 
selective coronary angiography. The study found that in patients with myocardial 
infarction in combination with type 2 diabetes is much more frequent multivessel 
disease and coronary delay the passage of contrast material than patients with 
MI without diabetes. These features and characteristics of coronary lesions in 
patients with diabetes and myocardial infarction may explain why more severe 
myocardial infarction with frequent development of coronary events in these 
patients. After analyzing the data obtained, it can be assumed relationship 
progression of vascular lesions with concomitant coronary glycemic 
decompensation.

PMID: 23035602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. J Med Econ. 2012;15 Suppl 1:3-14. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2012.737393. Epub
2012  Oct 16.

Cost-effectiveness of denosumab in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporosis 
in Canada.

Chau D(1), Becker DL, Coombes ME, Ioannidis G, Adachi JD, Goeree R.

Author information:
(1)Amgen Canada Inc, Mississauga, Ontario, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Denosumab is a novel biologic agent approved in Canada for treatment 
of post-menopausal osteoporosis (PMO) in women at high risk for fracture or who 
have failed or are intolerant to other osteoporosis therapies. This study 
estimated cost-effectiveness of denosumab vs usual care from the perspective of 
the Ontario public payer.
METHODS: A previously published PMO Markov cohort model was adapted for Canada 
to estimate cost-effectiveness of denosumab. The primary analysis included women 
with demographic characteristics similar to those from the pivotal phase III 
