PMID: 23147986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Top Companion Anim Med. 2012 Aug;27(3):113-6. doi:
10.1053/j.tcam.2012.04.005.  Epub 2012 May 30.

Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency in the cat.

Steiner JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Gastrointestinal Laboratory, Department of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, 
College of Veterinary Medicine and Biomedical Sciences, Texas A&M University, 
College Station, TX 77843-4474, USA. jsteiner@cvm.tamu.edu

Exocrine pancreatic insufficiency (EPI) is a syndrome caused by an insufficient 
amount of pancreatic digestive enzymes in the small intestine. Clinical signs 
most commonly reported in cats with EPI are weight loss, loose and voluminous 
stools, steatorrhea, polyphagia, and in some cases a greasy soiling of the hair 
coat in the perianal region. Serum feline trypsin-like immunoreactivity 
concentration is the diagnostic test of choice for the diagnosis of affected 
cats. Treatment of cats with EPI consists of enzyme supplementation with either 
a powdered pancreatic extract or raw pancreas. Most cats with EPI also have 
severely decreased serum cobalamin concentrations and may require lifelong 
parenteral cobalamin supplementation. Most cats respond well to therapy and can 
have a normal life expectancy and quality of life.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.tcam.2012.04.005
PMID: 23148851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2013 Aug;46(2):275-81. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.07.013. Epub 2012 Nov 11.

Does assessing patients' expectancies about chemotherapy side effects influence 
their occurrence?

Colagiuri B(1), Dhillon H, Butow PN, Jansen J, Cox K, Jacquet J.

Author information:
(1)School of Psychology, Centre for Medical Psychology, Sydney School of Public 
Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia. 
ben.colagiuri@sydney.edu.au

CONTEXT: Increasing evidence suggests a link between patients' expectancies and 
post-chemotherapy side effects. However, it remains unclear whether asking 
patients about their expectancies might actually increase side effects.
OBJECTIVES: The present study tested whether questioning first-time chemotherapy 
patients about their pretreatment expectancies for four common side effects 
influences the occurrence and/or severity of these side effects post-treatment 
and whether these pretreatment expectancies are predictive of post-treatment 
side effects.
METHODS: Ninety-one first-time chemotherapy patients were randomly allocated to 
have their expectancies for nausea, fatigue, feelings of sadness, and loss of 
appetite assessed before their first infusion or to no such assessment. All 
patients then rated the occurrence and severity of these side effects at the end 
of their first chemotherapy cycle.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences in occurrence or 
severity of side effects in those who had their expectancies assessed compared 
with those who did not. There was, however, evidence of a statistically 
significant positive relationship between patients' pretreatment expectancies 
and their post-treatment reports of nausea, loss of appetite, and feelings of 
sadness, after controlling for age, sex, and baseline symptom levels.
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that patient expectancies might be a useful 
point of intervention for attempting to reduce the burden of 
chemotherapy-related side effects, as there do not appear to be any detrimental 
effects of asking patients to report their expectancies and their expectancies 
do appear related to the occurrence of post-treatment side effects.

Copyright © 2013 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.07.013
PMID: 23149081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Exp Parasitol. 2013 Jan;133(1):62-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exppara.2012.10.015.
Epub  2012 Nov 10.

Identification, sequence analysis and characterization of Clonorchis sinensis 
ubiquitin.

Huang Y(1), Liao H, Li W, Hu Y, Huang L, Wang X, Sun J, Chen W, Deng C, Liang C, 
Wu Z, Li X, Xu J, Yu X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Parasitology, Zhongshan School of Medicine, Sun Yat-sen 
University, Guangzhou, China.

Ubiquitin is a functionally important protein expressed in eukaryotic cells 
usually encoded by multigenic families containing two types of genes, ubiquitin 
extension genes and polyubiquitin genes. One independent monomeric locus and two 
independent polyubiquitin loci were firstly identified from the genome of 
carcinogenic liver fluke, Clonorchis sinensis (C. sinensis). The nucleotide and 
amino acid sequence of C. sinensis polyubiquitin, especially polyubiquitin with 
five tandem ubiquitin repeats (CsPUB5), were analyzed. We obtained recombinant 
CsPUB5 (rCsPUB5) and anti-rCsPUB5 IgG. The ubiquitin transcripts in life cycle 
of C. sinensis were investigated. In addition, we found that ubiquitin or 
ubiquitination was ubiquitous in adult worm of C. sinensis and significantly 
observed in the content of biliary tract and intrahepatic biliary epithelium of 
liver from C. sinensis infected rat. We confirmed that rCsPUB5 could bind to 
human intrahepatic biliary epithelial cell by immunofluorescence in vitro. It 
was considered that ubiquitin family constitutively expressed in C. sinensis for 
variety of cellular processes and might be implicated in the genesis and 
progression of cholangiocarcinoma induced by the infection of C. sinensis.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exppara.2012.10.015
PMID: 23149166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. J Hand Ther. 2013 Apr-Jun;26(2):139-46; quiz 147. doi: 
10.1016/j.jht.2012.10.001. Epub 2012 Nov 11.

Effects of a dynamic progressive orthotic intervention for chronic hemiplegia: a 
case series.

Doucet BM(1), Mettler JA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rehabilitation Sciences, School of Health Professions, University 
of Texas Medical Branch, 301 University Boulevard, Galveston, TX 77555-1137, 
USA. bmdoucet@utmb.edu

Comment in
    J Hand Ther. 2013 Oct-Dec;26(4):369-70; discussion 370.

STUDY DESIGN: Case series design on a single subgroup of participants.
INTRODUCTION: Management of hypertonicity and resistance to passive movement 
(RTPM) in the upper extremity is an intractable problem for persons with stroke 
and the therapists who provide their care. Therapists have limited options for 
assessment and treatment of this condition which can profoundly limit functional 
performance and quality of life.
PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: To evaluate the effect of a 12-week dynamic progressive 
orthotic intervention in persons with chronic stroke exhibiting wrist flexion 
contracture who are residents of a long-term skilled nursing facility.
METHODS: A custom-fitted dynamic progressive wrist extension orthotic was 
applied to 6 residents with chronic stroke. The orthotic was worn for 4 h daily, 
4×/week for 12 weeks. Wrist passive range of motion (PROM) and RTPM were 
measured weekly and after discontinuation of the orthotics using the Modified 
Ashworth Scale and the Tardieu Scale of Spasticity. Signal analysis of 
electromyographical (EMG) flexor response to extensor stretching was also 
measured before and after orthotic intervention using maximal root mean square 
(RMS) values and EMG burst onset time.
RESULTS: A moderate effect was found for changes in PROM with the orthotic 
intervention. Progress made diminished following discontinuation. Moderate 
effects were also seen in EMG measures which indicated increases in amount of 
resistive-free movement following intervention.
CONCLUSION: A dynamic progressive orthotic intervention can be an effective 
option for increasing wrist PROM and reducing RTPM in persons with chronic 
stroke.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4.

Copyright © 2013 Hanley & Belfus. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jht.2012.10.001
PMCID: PMC4163551
PMID: 23149271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Am Nat. 2012 Dec;180(6):744-50. doi: 10.1086/668009. Epub 2012 Oct 19.

Short-lived ants take greater risks during food collection.

Moroń D(1), Lenda M, Skórka P, Woyciechowski M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Systematics and Evolution of Animals, Polish Academy of 
Sciences, Kraków, Poland. dawidmoron@poczta.onet.pl

Life-history theory predicts that organisms should alter their behavior if life 
expectancy declines. Recent theoretical work has focused on worker life 
expectancy as an ultimate factor in allocating risk-related tasks among the 
workforce in social insects. A key prediction of this evolutionary model is that 
workers with shorter life expectancy should perform riskier tasks. We tested 
this hypothesis, using laboratory colonies of the ant Myrmica scabrinodis. We 
modified foraging so that it differed in level of risk by manipulating 
distances, temperatures, and the presence of competitors on foraging patches. 
The life expectancies of foragers were shortened by poisoning with carbon 
dioxide or by injury through removal of their propodeal spines. Both treatments 
significantly shortened worker life expectancy in comparison with untreated 
ants. We show, for the first time, that foragers with a shorter life expectancy 
foraged under risk more often than foragers in the control group. Thus, a 
worker's strategy of foraging under risky circumstances appears to be fine-tuned 
to its life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1086/668009
PMID: 23149399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Jan;93(1):86-97. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2012.183. Epub
2012  Nov 14.

Longitudinal cystic fibrosis care.

Antunovic SS(1), Lukac M, Vujovic D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Belgrade, Belgrade, 
Serbia. sanja.sindjic@udk.bg.ac.rs

Cystic fibrosis is a complex disease entity that presents considerable lifelong 
challenges. Implementation of medical and surgical treatment options involves 
multisystem interventions to prevent and treat lung and gastrointestinal 
manifestations of cystic fibrosis and associated comorbidities. From birth 
through adulthood, cystic fibrosis care entails a longitudinal regimen aimed at 
achieving relief of disease symptoms and enhanced life expectancy. With 
increased knowledge of the molecular behavior of the cystic fibrosis 
transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) in health and disease, clinical 
practice has been enriched by the prospect of novel strategies, including 
mutation-specific drug and gene therapy targeting restoration of corrupted 
transepithelial ion transport. Emerging paradigms of comprehensive care 
increasingly enable personalized solutions to address the root cause of 
disease-transforming management options for individuals with cystic fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2012.183
PMID: 23149927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Jan;98(1):172-80. doi: 10.1210/jc.2012-2458.
Epub  2012 Nov 12.

Life expectancy is reduced in differentiated thyroid cancer patients ≥ 45 years 
old with extensive local tumor invasion, lateral lymph node, or distant 
metastases at diagnosis and normal in all other DTC patients.

Verburg FA(1), Mäder U, Tanase K, Thies ED, Diessl S, Buck AK, Luster M, Reiners 
C.

Author information:
(1)University of Würzburg, Department of Nuclear Medicine, 97080 Würzburg, 
Germany. fverburg@ukaachen.de

OBJECTIVE: Differentiated thyroid carcinoma (DTC) generally has a good 
prognosis. As yet, however, it is unclear whether life expectancy is reduced in 
these patients and, if so, to what extent. The aim of this study was to 
determine how the all-cause mortality rate in DTC patients compares to that of 
the general population.
DESIGN: A prospective database study was conducted.
PATIENTS: The study included 2011 DTC patients treated in our hospital from 
1980-2011. All patients received total thyroidectomy with subsequent (131)I 
ablation, except for those with an isolated papillary microcarcinoma. Survival 
data for the general German population were obtained from the German Federal 
Statistics Agency and matched to our DTC population for age and sex.
RESULTS: Patients who were at least 45 yr old at diagnosis and had extensive 
perithyroidal invasion (UICC/AJCC TNM system, 7th edition, stages IVa and IVb), 
lateral cervical lymph node metastases (TNM stage IVa), or distant metastases 
(TNM stage IVc) showed a clearly reduced life expectancy [relative cumulative 
survival rate (observed:expected) for stage IVc after 20 yr, 0.295; 95% 
confidence interval, 0.033-0.556]. In patients over 60 yr of age at diagnosis, 
the loss of life expectancy was (much) greater than for those aged 45-59 yr in 
all groups. Life expectancy was not reduced in patients with TNM stages I, II, 
or III (86% of patients).
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy is not significantly reduced in 86% of DTC patients; 
only patients at least 45 yr old with extensive local invasion, lateral lymph 
node metastases, and/or distant metastases (TNM stages IVa, IVb, and IVc) at 
diagnosis showed a clearly lower life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2012-2458
PMID: 23150687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. J Palliat Med. 2012 Dec;15(12):1342-9. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2012.0172. Epub 2012
Nov  14.

Pros and cons of prognostic disclosure to Japanese cancer patients and their 
families from the family's point of view.

Yoshida S(1), Shiozaki M, Sanjo M, Morita T, Hirai K, Tsuneto S, Shima Y.

Author information:
(1)Center for Cancer control and Information Services, National Cancer Center, 
Tokyo, Japan. saryoshi@ncc.go.jp

BACKGROUND: The primary goals of this analysis were to explore the pros and cons 
of prognostic disclosure to patients and their families from the bereaved 
family's point of view.
METHODS: Semistructured interviews were conducted with 60 bereaved family 
members of patients with cancer in Japan.
RESULTS: There were eight categories of influence related to the disclosure of 
prognosis to the family, including pros (e.g., "Enabling mental preparedness for 
the patient's death") and cons (e.g., "Being distressed by acknowledging the 
patient's prognosis"); and seven categories of influence of not disclosing the 
prognosis to family, including pros (e.g., "Being able to maintain hope") and 
cons (e.g., "Being prevented from providing adequate care for the patient"). 
There were also nine categories of influence related to the disclosure of 
prognosis to patients (e.g., "Enabling various discussions regarding death with 
the patient"), and eight categories of influence related to not disclosing the 
prognosis to patients (e.g., "Maintaining the patient's hope").
CONCLUSIONS: Although prognostic disclosure to family members can contribute to 
psychological distress and hopelessness, at the same time, it has the potential 
to prepare them for the future both emotionally and practically, and also to 
make the time until the patient's death as meaningful as possible. It is useful 
for physicians to introduce pros and cons of prognostic disclosure to family 
members at the time of decision making, to understand the family members' 
psychological state, and to provide support considering pros and cons whether or 
not they disclosed prognosis.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2012.0172
PMID: 23151232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. BMJ Open. 2012 Nov 14;2(6):e002168. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-002168. Print 
2012.

Efficacy of multimodal, systematic non-surgical treatment of knee osteoarthritis 
for patients not eligible for a total knee replacement: a study protocol of a 
randomised controlled trial.

Skou ST(1), Roos EM, Laursen MB, Rathleff MS, Arendt-Nielsen L, Simonsen O, 
Rasmussen S.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Surgery Research Unit, Aalborg Hospital-Aarhus University 
Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: It is recommended that non-operative treatment of knee 
osteoarthritis (KOA) should be individually tailored and include multiple 
treatment modalities. Despite these recommendations, no one has yet investigated 
the efficacy of combining several non-surgical treatment modalities in a 
randomised controlled study. The purpose of this randomised controlled study is 
to examine if an optimised, combined non-surgical treatment programme results in 
greater improvements in pain, function and quality of life in comparison with 
usual care in patients with KOA who are not eligible for total knee arthroplasty 
(TKA).
METHODS AND ANALYSIS: This study will include 100 consecutive patients from the 
North Denmark Region not eligible for TKA with radiographic KOA (K-L grade ≥1) 
and mean pain during the previous week of ≤60 mm (0-100). The participants will 
be randomised to receive either a 12-week non-surgical treatment programme 
consisting of patient education, exercise, diet, insoles, paracetamol and/or 
NSAIDs or usual care (two information leaflets containing information on KOA and 
advice regarding the above non-surgical treatment). The primary outcome will be 
the change from baseline to 12 months on the self-report questionnaire Knee 
Injury and Osteoarthritis Outcome Score (KOOS)(4) defined as the average score 
for the subscale scores for pain, symptoms, activities of daily living and 
quality of life. Secondary outcomes include the five individual KOOS subscale 
scores, pain on a 100 mm Visual Analogue Scale, EQ-5D, self-efficacy, pain 
pressure thresholds, postural control and isometric knee flexion and knee 
extension strength.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: This study was approved by the local Ethics Committee 
of The North Denmark Region (N-20110085) and the protocol conforms to the 
principles of the Declaration of Helsinki. Data collection will be completed by 
April 2014. Publications will be ready for submission in the summer of 2014.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: This study is registered with 
http://clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01535001).

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-002168
PMCID: PMC3533085
PMID: 23151395


644. Lancet Oncol. 2012 Dec;13(12):1260-70. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70423-0.
Epub  2012 Nov 12.

Quality of life in men with locally advanced prostate cancer treated with 
leuprorelin and radiotherapy with or without zoledronic acid (TROG 03.04 RADAR): 
secondary endpoints from a randomised phase 3 factorial trial.

Denham JW(1), Wilcox C, Joseph D, Spry NA, Lamb DS, Tai KH, Matthews J, Atkinson 
C, Turner S, Christie D, Gogna NK, Kenny L, Duchesne G, Delahunt B, McElduff P.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Public Health, University of Newcastle, Newcastle, 
NSW, Australia. jim.denham@newcastle.edu.au

Erratum in
    Lancet Oncol. 2014 Sep;15(10):e417. Dosage error in article text.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2012 Dec;13(12):1182-3.
    Asian J Androl. 2013 May;15(3):356-7.

BACKGROUND: Adjuvant androgen suppression and bisphosphonates with escalating 
doses of radiotherapy might improve efficacy outcomes in men with locally 
advanced prostate cancer. In this study, we investigated whether these 
treatments had a detrimental effect on patient-reported-outcome (PRO) scores.
METHODS: We undertook a phase 3 trial with a 2×2 factorial design in 23 centres 
in Australia and New Zealand in men with non-metastatic adenocarcinoma of the 
prostate (stage T2b-4 or T2a, Gleason score ≥7, and baseline prostate-specific 
antigen concentration [PSA] ≥10 μg/L), and without previous lymph node or 
systemic metastases or comorbidities that could reduce life expectancy to less 
than 5 years. The men were randomly assigned in a 1:1:1:1 ratio to 6 months of 
neoadjuvant (short-term) androgen suppression (STAS) with leuprorelin (22·5 mg 
every 3 months, intramuscularly) or an additional 12 months (intermediate-term 
androgen suppression [ITAS]) of leuprorelin with or without 18 months of 
zoledronic acid (4 mg every 3 months, intravenously). Study drug administration 
commenced at randomisation after which radiotherapy started within the fifth 
month in all groups. Treatment allocation was open-label, and computer-generated 
randomisation, stratified by centre, baseline concentrations of PSA, clinical 
stage of the tumour, Gleason score, and use of a brachytherapy boost, was done 
by use of the minimisation technique. PRO scores were calculated from European 
Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer quality-of-life and 
prostate-specific quality-of-life module questionnaires and compared with 
multiple regression models at baseline, and end of radiotherapy, and 18 months 
and 36 months according to group and radiation dose. The trial is ongoing and 
the primary endpoint, prostate-cancer-specific mortality, will be reported in 
2014. This study is the final report of PRO scores (a secondary endpoint). 
Analysis was by intention to treat. This trial is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00193856.
FINDINGS: 1071 men were randomly assigned to STAS (n=268), STAS plus zoledronic 
acid (n=268), ITAS (n=268), and ITAS plus zoledronic acid (n=267). At the end of 
radiotherapy, significant detrimental changes in PRO scores (p<0·01) occurred in 
all groups. There were no significant differences in global health status 
between groups at any timepoint. At 18 months, PROs that were significantly 
worse in the ITAS groups when compared with STAS were hormone-treatment-related 
symptoms (HTRS; STAS, 10·20 [95% CI 8·66-11·75]; ITAS, 17·36 [13·63-21·08], 
p<0·01; and ITAS plus zoledronic acid, 19·14 [15·43-22·85], p<0·01), sexual 
activity (STAS, 26·38 [23·50-29·27]; ITAS, 14·40 [7·44-21·36], p<0·01; and ITAS 
plus zoledronic acid, 16·34 [9·39-23·28], p<0·01), social function (STAS, 90·31 
[87·89-92·73]; ITAS, 87·35 [81·52-93·18], p=0·09; and ITAS plus zoledronic acid, 
83·66 [77·85-89·48], p<0·01), fatigue (STAS, 17·05 [14·58-19·51]; ITAS 24·52 
[18·58-30·46], p<0·01; and ITAS plus zoledronic acid, 24·26 [18·33-30·18], 
p<0·01), and financial problems (STAS, 3·39 [1·29-5·48]; ITAS, 8·97 
[3·92-14·02], p<0·01; and ITAS plus zoledronic acid, 8·92 [3·89-13·96], p<0·01). 
With the exception of HTRS, in which marginal differences remained, persisting 
significant differences disappeared by 36 months. Other factors associated with 
significant detrimental changes in PRO scores were a brachytherapy boost, 
incomplete testosterone and haemoglobin recoveries, age, and smoking.
INTERPRETATION: Compared with 6 months of androgen suppression, 18 months of 
androgen suppression causes additional detrimental changes at the 18 month 
follow-up in some PRO scores but not in global quality-of-life scores. However, 
with the exception of HTRS, these differences resolved by 36 months. The use of 
zoledronic acid every 3 months over 18 months does not result in additional 
detrimental changes, but the use of a brachytherapy boost to achieve radiation 
dose escalation in the prostate can adversely affect emotional function and 
financial problems.
FUNDING: National Health and Medical Research Council of Australia, Novartis 
Pharmaceuticals Australia, Abbott Pharmaceuticals Australia, New Zealand Health 
Research Council, New Zealand Cancer Society, University of Newcastle 
(Australia), Hunter Medical Research Institute, Calvary Mater Radiation Oncology 
Fund, and Maitland Cancer Appeal.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70423-0
PMID: 23151431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Med Care. 2013 Apr;51(4):330-8. doi: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31827631b0.

Variation in receipt of radiation therapy after breast-conserving surgery: 
assessing the impact of physicians and geographic regions.

Feinstein AJ(1), Soulos PR, Long JB, Herrin J, Roberts KB, Yu JB, Gross CP.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, 
Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center, New Haven, CT, USA.

BACKGROUND: Among older women with early-stage breast cancer, patients with a 
short life expectancy (LE) are much less likely to benefit from adjuvant 
radiation therapy (RT). Little is known about the impact of physicians and 
regional factors on the use of RT across LE groups.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the relative contribution of patient, physician, and 
regional factors on the use of RT.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort.
SUBJECTS: Women aged 67-94 years diagnosed with stage I breast cancer between 
1998 and 2007 receiving breast-conserving surgery.
MEASURES: We evaluated patient, physician, and regional factors for their 
association with RT across strata of LE using a 3-level hierarchical logistic 
regression model. Risk-standardized treatment rates (RSTRs) for the receipt of 
radiation were calculated according to primary surgeon and region.
RESULTS: Approximately 43.6% of the 2253 women with a short LE received RT, 
compared with 90.8% of the 11,027 women with a long LE. Among women with a short 
LE, the probability of receiving RT varied substantially across primary 
surgeons; RSTRs ranged from 27.7% to 67.3% (mean, 43.9%). There was less 
variability across geographic regions; RSTRs ranged from 42.0% to 45.2% (mean, 
43.6%). Short LE patients were more likely to receive RT in areas with high 
radiation oncologist density (odds ratio, 1.59; 95% confidence interval, 
1.07-2.36).
CONCLUSIONS: Although there is a wide variation across geographic regions in the 
use of RT among women with breast cancer and short LE, the regional variation 
was substantially diminished after accounting for the operating surgeon.

DOI: 10.1097/MLR.0b013e31827631b0
PMCID: PMC3596448
PMID: 23151590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. BMJ. 2012 Nov 14;345:e7311. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e7311.

The legacy of the tobacco colossus Richard Doll.

Daube M, Chapman S.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2012;345:e7093.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e7311
PMID: 23152567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. PLoS One. 2012;7(11):e48355. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0048355. Epub 2012
Nov  12.

Disparities in healthcare utilisation rates for Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal 
Albertan residents, 1997-2006: a population database study.

Chung H(1), Ye M, Hanson C, Oladokun O, Campbell MJ, Kramer G, Lehmann OJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: It is widely recognised that significant discrepancies exist between 
the health of indigenous and non-indigenous populations. Whilst the reasons are 
incompletely defined, one potential cause is that indigenous communities do not 
access healthcare to the same extent. We investigated healthcare utilisation 
rates in the Canadian Aboriginal population to elucidate the contribution of 
this fundamental social determinant for health to such disparities.
METHODS: Healthcare utilisation data over a nine-year period were analysed for a 
cohort of nearly two million individuals to determine the rates at which 
Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal populations utilised two specialties (Cardiology 
and Ophthalmology) in Alberta, Canada. Unadjusted and adjusted healthcare 
utilisation rates obtained by mixed linear and Poisson regressions, 
respectively, were compared amongst three population groups - federally 
registered Aboriginals, individuals receiving welfare, and other Albertans.
RESULTS: Healthcare utilisation rates for Aboriginals were substantially lower 
than those of non-Aboriginals and welfare recipients at each time point and 
subspecialty studied [e.g. During 2005/06, unadjusted Cardiology utilisation 
rates were 0.28% (Aboriginal, n = 97,080), 0.93% (non-Aboriginal, n = 1,720,041) 
and 1.37% (Welfare, n = 52,514), p = <0.001]. The age distribution of the 
Aboriginal population was markedly different [2.7%≥65 years of age, 
non-Aboriginal 10.7%], and comparable utilisation rates were obtained after 
adjustment for fiscal year and estimated life expectancy [Cardiology: Incidence 
Rate Ratio 0.66, Ophthalmology: IRR 0.85].
DISCUSSION: The analysis revealed that Aboriginal people utilised subspecialty 
healthcare at a consistently lower rate than either comparatively economically 
disadvantaged groups or the general population. Notably, the differences were 
relatively invariant between the major provincial centres and over a nine year 
period. Addressing the causes of these discrepancies is essential for reducing 
marked health disparities, and so improving the health of Aboriginal people.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0048355
PMCID: PMC3495946
PMID: 23152770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


648. J Agric Food Chem. 2012 Dec 5;60(48):11980-6. doi: 10.1021/jf3036963. Epub
2012  Nov 21.

Riboflavin accumulation and characterization of cDNAs encoding lumazine synthase 
and riboflavin synthase in bitter melon (Momordica charantia).

Tuan PA(1), Kim JK, Lee S, Chae SC, Park SU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Crop Science, College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, 
Chungnam National University, 99 Daehangno, Yuseong-gu, Daejeon 305-764, Korea.

Riboflavin (vitamin B2) is the universal precursor of the coenzymes flavin 
mononucleotide and flavin adenine dinucleotide--cofactors that are essential for 
the activity of a wide variety of metabolic enzymes in animals, plants, and 
microbes. Using the RACE PCR approach, cDNAs encoding lumazine synthase (McLS) 
and riboflavin synthase (McRS), which catalyze the last two steps in the 
riboflavin biosynthetic pathway, were cloned from bitter melon (Momordica 
charantia), a popular vegetable crop in Asia. Amino acid sequence alignments 
indicated that McLS and McRS share high sequence identity with other orthologous 
genes and carry an N-terminal extension, which is reported to be a 
plastid-targeting sequence. Organ expression analysis using quantitative 
real-time RT PCR showed that McLS and McRS were constitutively expressed in M. 
charantia, with the strongest expression levels observed during the last stage 
of fruit ripening (stage 6). This correlated with the highest level of 
riboflavin content, which was detected during ripening stage 6 by HPLC analysis. 
McLS and McRS were highly expressed in the young leaves and flowers, whereas 
roots exhibited the highest accumulation of riboflavin. The cloning and 
characterization of McLS and McRS from M. charantia may aid the metabolic 
engineering of vitamin B2 in crops.

DOI: 10.1021/jf3036963
PMID: 23153065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. J Craniofac Surg. 2012 Nov;23(7 Suppl 1):2042-5. doi: 
10.1097/SCS.0b013e318258ba36.

Management of decompressive craniectomy defects: modern military treatment 
strategies.

Tantawi D(1), Armonda R, Valerio I, Kumar AR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA 15224, USA.

BACKGROUND: Decompressive craniectomy has become a critical and standard 
life-saving maneuver in the theater of war. The high number of patients 
returning with large cranial defects and complex craniofacial injuries often 
involving the upper orbits or associated with the sunken skin flaps are a 
reconstructive challenge. We present a review of our treatment protocol 
highlighting the evolution of decompressive craniectomy and the development of a 
modern cranial defect treatment algorithmic approach to reconstruct these 
difficult clinical cases.
METHODS: A review of previously published data and current data from our warfare 
treatment unit that reported the treatment of decompressive cranial defects from 
2004 to 2011 was performed. Reported data included mechanism of injury, 
evacuation time, initial Glasgow Coma Scale (GCS), GCS on arrival to the 
continental United States, type of decompressive craniectomy, type of implants 
used for reconstruction, and complications such as implant infections, 
exposures, and removals. Secondary reconstruction techniques used to salvage 
failed cranioplasty cases with free tissue transfers and cranial bone or dermal 
fat grafts as indicated were also reviewed and outcomes were reported.
RESULTS: From March 2003 to July 2011, more than 200 patients were identified 
who underwent cranioplasty after decompressive craniectomy. Patient average age 
was approximately 25 years (range, 18-53 y), and all patients were male. Average 
follow-up was 870 days (2.4 y). Average GCS at initial presentation was 7 and 
was 9 on arrival to the continental United States. Average time to evacuation to 
the continental United States was 6 days. Of all injuries, 46% were associated 
with an improvised explosive device blast. Of the patients, 90% underwent 
hemicraniectomies with the remaining 10% having received bifrontal 
craniectomies. Successful reconstruction and retention of the implant was 
present in 95% of the overall cohort. Contour abnormalities were the most common 
adverse outcome encountered (10% of patients after cranioplasty), whereas 
infections resulting in implant loss (5%) and seizures (<5%) were the most 
common complications that occurred after cranioplasty reconstruction.
CONCLUSIONS: Warfare-related decompressive craniectomy defects can be safely 
reconstructed using custom alloplastic implants with low morbidity and 
mortality. Risk factors that increase the rate of infection and require implant 
removal included orbital extension of the craniectomy defect, proximity to 
facial sinuses, and large contour abnormalities with corresponding large dead 
spaces. Staging reconstruction of high-risk cranial defects followed by 
definitive cranial defect reconstruction improved the likelihood of implant 
retention and successful cranioplasty outcome.

DOI: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e318258ba36
PMID: 23154344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Arch Esp Urol. 2012 Nov;65(9):787-807.

Predictive tools for prostate cancer staging, treatment response and outcomes.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Green DA(1), Osterberg EC, Xylinas E, Rink M, Karakiewicz PI, Scherr DS, Shariat 
SF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Numerous predictive models relating to prostate cancer staging and 
outcomes have been described. We sought to review and categorize these 
predictive tools to create a comprehensive reference for physicians who treat 
prostate cancer.
METHODS: We performed a search of MEDLINE literature from January 1966 to April 
2012 to identify predictive models relating to prostate cancer staging, 
treatment, and outcomes in the pre-treated patient. For each model identified, 
we describe the outcome predicted, the variables comprising the model, the size 
of the cohort on which the tool was developed, predictive discrimination 
estimates, and whether internal and/or external validation has been performed.
RESULTS: We identified 80 predictive tools applicable to pre-treated prostate 
cancer patients, 30 of which had been externally validated. Tools designed to 
predict pathologic stage were the most common; several models focused on 
accurately predicting clinically insignificant prostate cancer while another 
large proportion focused on the prediction of locally advanced disease (i.e. 
extracapsular extension, seminal vesicle involvement, lymph node invasion). 
Other models described studied biochemical outcomes following radical 
prostatectomy, external beam radiotherapy, or brachytherapy. Very few models 
addressed the prediction of metastasis and survival. Finally, several tools 
incorporated novel pre-treatment serum biomarkers or magnetic resonance imaging 
findings into base models to enhance the accuracy of standard clinicopathologic 
variables.
CONCLUSION: To deliver optimal, individualized prostate cancer care, treatment 
should be tailored to the specific characteristics of each patient and each 
tumor. Predictive models may facilitate such an approach and are numerously 
described in the literature. While the performance of predictive models is 
encouraging, further improvement through inclusion of biomarkers as well as 
evaluation of their clinical utility is imperative. Optimally, predictive models 
should be further studied in the prospective setting.

PMID: 23154603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Demography. 2013 Apr;50(2):569-89. doi: 10.1007/s13524-012-0164-2.

The predictive validity of subjective mortality expectations: evidence from the 
Health and Retirement Study.

Elder TE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Michigan State University, East Lansing, MI 48824, 
USA. telder@msu.edu

Several recent studies suggest that individual subjective survival forecasts are 
powerful predictors of both mortality and behavior. Using 15 years of 
longitudinal data from the Health and Retirement Study, I present an alternative 
view. Across a wide range of ages, predictions of in-sample mortality rates 
based on subjective forecasts are substantially less accurate than predictions 
based on population life tables. Subjective forecasts also fail to capture 
fundamental properties of senescence, including increases in yearly mortality 
rates with age. To shed light on the mechanisms underlying these biases, I 
develop and estimate a latent-factor model of how individuals form subjective 
forecasts. The estimates of this model's parameters imply that these forecasts 
incorporate several important sources of measurement error that arguably swamp 
the useful information they convey.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-012-0164-2
PMID: 23154962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. J Econ Entomol. 2012 Oct;105(5):1581-90. doi: 10.1603/ec11318.

Temperature-dependent demography of Aulacaspis yasumatsui (Hemiptera: 
Diaspididae).

Ravuiwasa KT(1), Tan CW, Bezirganoglu I, Hwang SY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan 
402.

Aulacaspis yasumatsui Takagi continues to threaten the extinction of the endemic 
and endangered Cycas taitungensis (Shen et al.) in Taiwan. Failure to understand 
its population demographic parameters in detail will continue to hinder the 
success of pest management practices. An in-depth knowledge of the development, 
survival, and fecundity of A. yasumatsui under different environmental 
conditions is necessary to understand its' population growth. The demography of 
A. yasumatsui was studied in the laboratory based on the age-stage, two-sex life 
table at 20, 23, 25, 28, and 31 degrees C, 70% relative humidity, and a 
photoperiod of 16:8 (L:D) h. The intrinsic rate of increase (r) under these 
temperatures was 0.06, 0.07, 0.09, 0.10, and 0.08 d(-1), respectively. The net 
reproductive rate (R0) was 46.27, 47.78, 69.50, 96.08, and 56.65 offsprings per 
individual and the mean generation time (T) was 65.60, 55.81, 47.82, 44.15, and 
51.42 d, respectively. A. yasumatsui does well at warmer temperatures (25-28 
degrees C); however, its performance is disrupted at lower temperatures. This 
study provides insight on how to minimize growth and destruction of A. 
yasumatsui and conservation of Cy. taitungensis; new cycad reserves should be 
set up in cooler areas in Taiwan.

DOI: 10.1603/ec11318
PMID: 23156153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Genes Cells. 2012 Dec;17(12):939-51. doi: 10.1111/gtc.12008. Epub 2012 Nov
15.

High-resolution in vivo imaging of regenerating dendrites of Drosophila sensory 
neurons during metamorphosis: local filopodial degeneration and heterotypic 
dendrite-dendrite contacts.

Satoh D(1), Suyama R, Kimura K, Uemura T.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Biostudies, Kyoto University, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan.

Neuronal circuits that are formed in early development are reorganized at later 
developmental stages to support a wide range of adult behaviors. At Drosophila 
pupal stages, one example of this reorganization is dendritic remodeling of 
multidendritic neurons, which is accomplished by pruning and subsequent 
regeneration of branches in environments quite distinct from those in larval 
life. Here, we used long-term in vivo time-lapse recordings at high 
spatiotemporal resolution and analyzed the dynamics of two adjacent cell types 
that remodel dendritic arbors, which eventually innervate the lateral plate of 
the adult abdomen. These neurons initially exhibited dynamic extension, 
withdrawal and local degeneration of filopodia that sprouted from all along the 
length of regenerating branches. At a midpupal stage, branches extending from 
the two cell types started fasciculating with each other, which prompted us to 
test the hypothesis that this heterotypic contact may serve as a guiding 
scaffold for shaping dendritic arbors. Unexpectedly, our cell ablation study 
gave only marginal effects on the branch length and the arbor shape. This result 
suggests that the arbor morphology of the adult neurons in this study can be 
specified mostly in the absence of the dendrite-dendrite contact.

© 2012 The Authors Genes to Cells © 2012 by the Molecular Biology Society of 
Japan and Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/gtc.12008
PMCID: PMC3549480
PMID: 23157286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2012 Nov 16;12:133. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-12-133.

The quality of indigenous identification in administrative health data in 
Australia: insights from studies using data linkage.

Thompson SC(1), Woods JA, Katzenellenbogen JM.

Author information:
(1)Combined Universities Centre for Rural Health, University of Western 
Australia, PO Box 109, Geraldton, WA, 6530, Australia. 
sandra.thompson@cucrh.uwa.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Missing or incorrect Indigenous status in health records hinders 
monitoring of Indigenous health indicators. Linkage of administrative data has 
been used to improve the ascertainment of Indigenous status. Data linkage was 
pioneered in Western Australia (WA) and is now being used in other Australian 
states. This systematic review appraises peer-reviewed Australian studies that 
used data linkage to elucidate the impact of under-ascertainment of Indigenous 
status on health indicators.
METHODS: A PubMed search identified eligible studies that used Australian linked 
data to interrogate Indigenous identification using more than one identifier and 
interrogated the impact of the different identifiers on estimation of Indigenous 
health indicators.
RESULTS: Eight papers were included, five from WA and three from New South Wales 
(NSW). The WA papers included a self-identified Indigenous community cohort and 
showed improved identification in hospital separation data after 2000. In CVD 
hospitalised patients (2000-05), under-identification was greater in urban 
residents, older people and socially more advantaged Indigenous people, with 
varying algorithms giving different estimates of under-count. Age-standardised 
myocardial infarction incidence rates (2000-2004) increased by about 10%-15% 
with improved identification. Under-ascertainment of Indigenous identification 
overestimated secular improvements in life expectancy and mortality whereas 
correcting infectious disease notifications resulted in lower Indigenous/ 
non-Indigenous rate ratios. NSW has a history of poor Indigenous identification 
in administrative data systems, but the NSW papers confirmed the usefulness of 
data linkage for improving Indigenous identification and the potential for very 
different estimates of Indigenous disease indicators depending upon the 
algorithm used for identification.
CONCLUSIONS: Under-identification of Indigenous status must be addressed in 
health analyses concerning Indigenous health differentials - they cannot be 
ignored or wished away. This problem can be substantially diminished through 
data linkage. Under-identification of Indigenous status impacts differently in 
different disease contexts, generally resulting in under-estimation of absolute 
and relative Indigenous health indicators, but may perversely overestimate 
Indigenous rates and differentials in the setting of stigma-associated 
conditions such as sexually-transmitted and blood-borne virus infections. 
Under-numeration in Census surveys also needs consideration to address the added 
problem of denominator undercounts.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-12-133
PMCID: PMC3536611
PMID: 23157943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. J Diabetes Complications. 2013 May-Jun;27(3):219-23. doi: 
10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2012.10.006. Epub 2012 Nov 13.

The impact of treatment non-compliance on mortality in people with type 1 
diabetes.

Currie CJ(1), Peyrot M, Morgan CL, Poole CD, Jenkins-Jones S, Rubin RR, Burton 
CM, Evans M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, School of Medicine, Cardiff University, Cardiff, UK. 
currie@cardiff.ac.uk

AIMS: To determine if a diagnostic record of poor treatment compliance 
(medication non-compliance and/or non-attendance at medical appointments) was 
associated with all-cause mortality in people with type 1 diabetes.
METHODS: This is an observational cohort study of data extracted from The Health 
Improvement Network (THIN) database, comprising data on patients served by over 
350 primary care practices in the U.K. Participants were included in the study 
if they had diagnostic codes indicative of type 1 diabetes. Treatment 
non-compliance was defined as missing one or more scheduled appointment, or one 
or more codes indicating medication non-compliance.
RESULTS: Of 2946 patients with type 1 diabetes, 867 (29.4%) had a record of 
either appointment non-attendance or medication non-compliance in the 30 month 
compliance assessment period. The crude, unadjusted mortality rate for those 
patients who were treatment non-compliant was 1.462 (95% CI 0.954-2.205). 
Following adjustment for confounding factors, treatment non-compliance was 
associated with increased all-cause mortality (HR=1.642; 95% CI 1.055-2.554).
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment non-compliance was associated with increased all-cause 
mortality in patients with type 1 diabetes. Understanding and addressing factors 
that contribute to patient treatment non-compliance will be important in 
improving the life expectancy of patients with type 1 diabetes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2012.10.006
PMID: 23157988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. BMC Public Health. 2012 Nov 16;12:988. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-988.

Measuring financial protection for health in families with chronic conditions in 
Rural China.

Jiang C(1), Ma J, Zhang X, Luo W.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine and Health Management, Huazhong University of Science and 
Technology, Hang Kong Road, Wuhan, China.

BACKGROUND: As the world's largest developing country, China has entered into 
the epidemiological phase characterized by high life expectancy and high 
morbidity and mortality from chronic diseases. Cardiovascular diseases, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary diseases, and malignant tumors have become the leading 
causes of death since the 1990s. Constant payments for maintaining the health 
status of a family member who has chronic diseases could exhaust household 
resources, undermining fiscal support for other necessities and eventually 
resulting in poverty. The purpose of this study is to probe to what degree 
health expenditure for chronic diseases can impoverish rural families and 
whether the New Cooperative Medical Scheme can effectively protect families with 
chronic patients against catastrophic health expenditures.
METHODS: We used data from the 4th National Health Services Survey conducted in 
July 2008 in China. The rural sample we included in the analysis comprised 
39,054 households. We used both households suffering from medical impoverishment 
and households with catastrophic health expenditures to compare the financial 
protection for families having a chronic patient with different insurance 
coverage statuses. We used a logistic regression model to estimate the impact of 
different benefit packages on health financial protection for families having a 
chronic patient.
RESULTS: An additional 10.53% of the families with a chronic patient were 
impoverished because of healthcare expenditure, which is more than twice the 
proportion in families without a chronic patient. There is a higher catastrophic 
health expenditure incidence in the families with a chronic patient. The results 
of logistic regression show that simply adding extra benefits did not reduce the 
financial risks.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a lack of effective financial protection for healthcare 
expenditures for families with a chronic patient in rural China, even though 
there is a high coverage rate with the New Cooperative Medical Schemes. Given 
the coming universal coverage by the New Cooperative Medical Scheme and the 
increasing central government funds in the risk pool, effective financial 
protection for families should be possible through systematic reform of both 
financing mechanisms and payment methods.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-988
PMCID: PMC3533936
PMID: 23158260 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. BMC Public Health. 2012 Nov 17;12:994. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-994.

Widening social inequality in life expectancy in Denmark. A register-based study 
on social composition and mortality trends for the Danish population.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Baadsgaard M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Øster Farimagsgade 5, 
1014, Copenhagen, Denmark. henrik.bronnum-hansen@sund.ku.dk

BACKGROUND: Dynamics of the social composition of the population might influence 
the interpretation of statements of the increasing gap of social inequality in 
life expectancy. The aim of the study was to estimate trends during a quarter of 
a century in social inequality in life expectancy and to compare results based 
on different social stratifications.
METHODS: Life tables by sex and various levels of education and income were 
constructed for each year in the period 1987-2011 by linking individual data 
from nationwide registers comprising information on all Danish citizens on date 
of birth, date of death, education and income. Trends in life expectancies were 
compared for different categories of social grouping of the population.
RESULTS: When categories of educational level were kept fixed, implying a 
decreasing proportion of persons with a short education, the educational 
inequality in life expectancy increased. Thus, the difference in life expectancy 
at age 30 between men with primary or lower secondary education and men with 
tertiary education increased from 4.8 years in 1987 to 6.4 years in 2011. For 
women the difference increased from 3.7 years in 1987 to 4.7 in 2011. A similar 
growing social disparity was observed when educational level was based on 
quartiles established from prescribed length of education. A considerable 
increasing inequality was reached for men when the population was divided in 
quartiles of equivalent disposable income, whereas the change was only modest 
for women.
CONCLUSIONS: During the past 25 years, the social gap in life expectancy has 
widened in Denmark. This conclusion could not be explained by changes of the 
social compositions of the population.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-994
PMCID: PMC3534000
PMID: 23158780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2012 Aug;34(8):632-6. doi: 
10.3760/cma.j.issn.0253-3766.2012.08.017.

[Effectiveness and health economic analysis of strategies on cervical cancer 
screening and early diagnosis and treatment].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao FH(1), Chen JF, Gao XH, Gao LM, Liu QG, Liu ZH, Xu H, Ma JF, Ma L, Xu XL, 
Hu SY, Ning Y, Shi JF, Qiao YL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cancer Epidemiology, Cancer Institute/Hospital, Chinese Academy 
of Medical Sciences and Peking Union Medical College, Beijing 100021, China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the appropriate strategies which are suitable for the 
areas with diverse health and economic resource settings in China by estimating 
the life outcomes and cost-effectiveness of several cervical cancer screening 
strategies.
METHODS: Markov model was used to calculate the long-term effectiveness, 
utility, benefit and cost among screened and unscreened cohorts in rural and 
urban areas, and then analyses of cost-effectiveness, cost-utility and 
cost-benefit were performed. The assessed screening strategies were acetic acid 
of visual inspection combined with Lugol's iodine staining (VIA/VILI), 
conventional Pap smear and simple HPV DNA testing (careHPV) in rural areas, and 
conventional Pap smear, simple HPV DNA testing (careHPV), HPV DNA testing (HC2) 
and liquid-based cytology (LBC) alone or combined with HPV DNA testing (LBC+HC2) 
in urban areas. We estimated the life outcomes and cost-effectiveness of the 
above screening strategies at one-year, 3-year and 5-year intervals.
RESULTS: All of the screening strategies were effective to decrease cervical 
cancer mortality and to increase life years, with a trend of shorter screening 
interval having better effectiveness. However, no matter in urban or rural 
areas, compared with careHPV testing at 5-year interval, the costs of other 
screening strategies were 1.28 - 13.86 folds, 1.31 - 14.14 folds, and 1.27 - 
12.80 folds higher to avoid one death, to save a year of life, and a QALY, and 
the benefit per cost of other screening strategies was 9.9%-90.2%.
CONCLUSIONS: careHPV testing at 5-year interval has the best cost-effectiveness 
performance and the highest benefit-cost ratio with the moderate life outcomes. 
