event is rationalized by hindsight, as if it had been expected. For most of 
human history centenarians were a rare and unpredictable phenomenon. The 
improvements of the social-environmental conditions, of medical care, and the 
quality of life caused a general improvement of the health status of the 
population and a consequent reduction of the overall morbidity and mortality, 
resulting in an overall increase of life expectancy. The study of centenarians 
and supercentenarians had the objective to consider this black swan and to 
evaluate the health, welfare, social and economic consequences of this 
phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2482-12-S1-S36
PMCID: PMC3499197
PMID: 23173707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Apr;28(4):707-16. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12041.

Assessing the cost-effectiveness of treating chronic hepatitis C virus in people 
who inject drugs in Australia.

Visconti AJ(1), Doyle JS, Weir A, Shiell AM, Hellard ME.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California 94143, USA. adam.visconti@ucsf.edu

Comment in
    J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Apr;28(4):590-2.

BACKGROUND AND AIM: To assess the cost-effectiveness of hepatitis C virus 
treatment with pegylated interferon alfa-2a and ribavirin in current and former 
people who inject drugs (PWID).
METHODS: A decision analytic model simulated the lifetime costs and outcomes of 
four treatment options: early treatment with mild fibrosis, standard treatment 
with moderate fibrosis, late treatment with compensated cirrhosis, and no 
treatment. Treatment modalities were simulated across current, former, and 
never-injector cohorts of 1000 hypothetical patients with chronic hepatitis C 
virus. The main outcome measures were incremental costs ($AUD) per 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (ICERs) were calculated for each cohort.
RESULTS: Treatment of current PWID during mild fibrosis resulted in a discounted 
average gain of 1.60 QALYs (95% confidence interval 0.93-2.26) for an added cost 
of $12,723 ($11,153-$14,396) compared with no treatment, yielding an ICER of 
$7941 per QALY gained ($6347-$12,017). Former PWID gained 1.80 QALYs (1.29-2.33) 
for $10,441 ($8843-$12,074) for early treatment compared with no treatment, 
resulting in an ICER of $5808 per QALY gained ($5189-$6849). Never-injectors 
gained 2.33 QALYs (1.87-2.80) for $9290 ($7642-$10,912) compared with no 
treatment-an ICER of $3985 per QALY gained ($3896-$4080). Early treatment was 
more cost-effective than late treatment in all cohorts.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite comorbidities, increased mortality, and reduced adherence, 
treatment of both current and former PWID is cost-effective. Our estimates fall 
below the unofficial Australian cost-effectiveness threshold of $AUD 50,000 per 
QALY for public subsidies. Scaling up treatment for PWID can be justified on 
purely economic grounds.

© 2012 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley 
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12041
PMID: 23173753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. BMC Nephrol. 2012 Nov 22;13:152. doi: 10.1186/1471-2369-13-152.

Who should be prioritized for renal transplantation?: Analysis of key 
stakeholder preferences using discrete choice experiments.

Clark MD(1), Leech D, Gumber A, Moro D, Szczepura A, West N, Higgins R.

Author information:
(1)Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK. 
Michael.Clark@warwick.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Policies for allocating deceased donor kidneys have recently shifted 
from allocation based on Human Leucocyte Antigen (HLA) tissue matching in the UK 
and USA. Newer allocation algorithms incorporate waiting time as a primary 
factor, and in the UK, young adults are also favoured. However, there is little 
contemporary UK research on the views of stakeholders in the transplant process 
to inform future allocation policy. This research project aimed to address this 
issue.
METHODS: Discrete Choice Experiment (DCE) questionnaires were used to establish 
priorities for kidney transplantation among different stakeholder groups in the 
UK. Questionnaires were targeted at patients, carers, donors / relatives of 
deceased donors, and healthcare professionals. Attributes considered included: 
waiting time; donor-recipient HLA match; whether a recipient had dependents; 
diseases affecting life expectancy; and diseases affecting quality of life.
RESULTS: Responses were obtained from 908 patients (including 98 ethnic 
minorities); 41 carers; 48 donors / relatives of deceased donors; and 113 
healthcare professionals. The patient group demonstrated statistically different 
preferences for every attribute (i.e. significantly different from zero) so 
implying that changes in given attributes affected preferences, except when 
prioritizing those with no rather than moderate diseases affecting quality of 
life. The attributes valued highly related to waiting time, tissue match, 
prioritizing those with dependents, and prioritizing those with moderate rather 
than severe diseases affecting life expectancy. Some preferences differed 
between healthcare professionals and patients, and ethnic minority and 
non-ethnic minority patients. Only non-ethnic minority patients and healthcare 
professionals clearly prioritized those with better tissue matches.
CONCLUSIONS: Our econometric results are broadly supportive of the 2006 shift in 
UK transplant policy which emphasized prioritizing the young and long waiters. 
However, our findings suggest the need for a further review in the light of 
observed differences in preferences amongst ethnic minorities, and also because 
those with dependents may be a further priority.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2369-13-152
PMCID: PMC3576250
PMID: 23173887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Semin Dial. 2012 Nov-Dec;25(6):640-8. doi: 10.1111/sdi.12037.

Optimal hemodialysis vascular access in the elderly patient.

Moist LM(1), Lok CE, Vachharajani TJ, Xi W, AlJaishi A, Polkinghorne KR, Vazquez 
M, Lee TC.

Author information:
(1)Kidney Clinical Research Unit, Division of Nephrology, Schulich School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, Western University, London, Ontario, Canada. 
louise.moist@lhsc.on.ca

The optimal vascular access for elderly patients remains a challenge due to the 
difficulty balancing the benefits and risks in a population with increased 
comorbidity and decreased survival. Age is commonly associated with failure to 
mature in fistula and decreased rates of primary and secondary patency in both 
fistula and grafts. In the elderly, at 1 and 2 years, primary patency rates 
range from 43% to 74% and from 29% to 67%, respectively. Secondary patency rates 
at 1 and 2 years range from 56% to 82% and 44% to 67%, respectively. Cumulative 
fistula survival is no better than grafts survival when primary failures are 
included. Several observational studies consistently demonstrate a lower 
adjusted mortality among those using a fistula compared with a catheter; 
however, catheter use in the elderly is increasing in most countries with the 
exception of Japan. Both guidelines and quality initiatives do not acknowledge 
the trade-offs involved in managing the elderly patients with multiple chronic 
conditions and limited life expectancy or the value that patients place on 
achieving these outcomes. The framework for choice of vascular access presented 
in this article considers: (1) likelihood of disease progression before death, 
(2) patient life expectancy, (3) risks and benefits by vascular access type, and 
(4) patient preference. Future studies evaluating the timing and type of 
vascular access with careful assessments of complications, functionality, cost 
benefit, and patients' preference will provide relevant information to 
individualize and optimize care to improve morbidity, mortality, and quality of 
life in the elderly patient.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/sdi.12037
PMCID: PMC3999348
PMID: 23173892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Diabet Med. 2013 May;30(5):535-48. doi: 10.1111/dme.12063.

Insulin resistance: a risk marker for disease and disability in the older 
person.

Krentz AJ(1), Viljoen A, Sinclair A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Diabetes for Older People, Bedfordshire & Hertfordshire 
Postgraduate Medical School, University of Bedfordshire, Luton, UK. 
andrew.krentz@beds.ac.uk

Clinical metabolic studies have demonstrated that insulin action declines 
progressively with age in humans. In addition to its close association with Type 
2 diabetes, which reduces life expectancy in older people, age-related insulin 
resistance is implicated in pathogenesis of several highly prevalent disorders 
for which ageing is a major risk factor. These include atherosclerotic 
cardiovascular disease, dementia, frailty and cancer. Accordingly, insulin 
resistance may be viewed as biomarker of age-related ill health and reduced 
lifespan. The rapidly rising number of older people, coupled with a high 
prevalence of insulin resistance resulting from obesity and sedentary 
lifestyles, presents unprecedented public health and societal challenges. 
Studies of centenarians have shown that preserved whole-body sensitivity to 
insulin is associated with longevity. The mechanisms through which insulin 
action is associated with age-related diseases remain unclear. Changes in body 
composition, i.e. sarcopenia and excess adiposity, may be more potent than age 
per se. Moreover, the impact of insulin resistance has been difficult to 
disentangle from the clustering of vascular risk factors that co-segregate with 
the insulin resistance-hyperinsulinaemia complex. Potentially modifiable 
mediators of age-related changes in insulin sensitivity include alterations in 
adipocytokines, impaired skeletal myocyte mitochondrial function and brown fat 
activity. The hypothesis that improving or maintaining insulin sensitivity 
preserves health and extends lifespan merits further evaluation. Practical 
non-pharmacological interventions directed against age-related insulin 
resistance remain underdeveloped. Novel metabolically active pharmacological 
agents with theoretical implications for some age-related disorders are entering 
clinical trials. However, recent adverse experiences with the thiazolidinediones 
suggest the need for a cautious approach to the use of insulin sensitizing drugs 
in older people. This could be particularly important in the absence of diabetes 
where the risk to benefit analysis may be less favourable.

© 2012 The Authors. Diabetic Medicine © 2012 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/dme.12063
PMID: 23173973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2013 May;78(5):639-45. doi: 10.1111/cen.12104.

Assessing and addressing cardiovascular risk in adults with Turner syndrome.

Turtle EJ(1), Sule AA, Bath LE, Denvir M, Gebbie A, Mirsadraee S, Webb DJ.

Author information:
(1)Queen's Medical Research Institute, University of Edinburgh/BHF Centre for 
Cardiovascular Science, Edinburgh, UK.

Turner syndrome (TS), the result of a structurally abnormal or absent X 
chromosome, occurs in one in 2 000 live born females. The phenotype is highly 
variable, but short stature and gonadal dysgenesis are usually present. The main 
objective in adults with TS is health surveillance, but TS still causes a 
reduction in life expectancy of up to 13 years, with cardiovascular disease, 
congenital or acquired, as the major cause of an early death. While it has been 
established that all women with TS should undergo in-depth cardiovascular 
examination at diagnosis, advice on the cardiovascular management of women with 
TS is limited. Here, we provide a summary of our current practice within a 
multidisciplinary team, supported by our expertise in various aspects of 
cardiovascular risk management, and the evidence from research where it is 
available, with the aim of providing optimal support to our patients with TS.
BACKGROUND: A dedicated Adult Turner Clinic was established in South East 
Scotland in 2002. This gynaecology-led clinic serves a population of roughly 1·2 
million and, currently, reviews around 50 women with TS annually. Referrals for 
adult care come from paediatrics or general practice. Following a series of 
individual case discussions regarding the management of more complex 
cardiovascular problems, we have assembled a dedicated multidisciplinary group 
to determine a timely cardiovascular screening strategy, a basis for specialist 
referral, and appropriate hypertension management. This team now includes a 
paediatric endocrinologist, gynaecologist, cardiologist (with an interest in 
inherited disorders), vascular radiologist and hypertension specialist. Here, we 
review the literature on cardiovascular disease in women with TS and, make 
recommendations, based on relatively limited high-quality evidence, together 
with our experience, on the optimal timing of cardiovascular screening.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cen.12104
PMID: 23173989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2013 Feb;88:48-54. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2012.10.018.  Epub 2012 Nov 20.

Effect of silver nanoparticles on Oryza sativa L. and its rhizosphere bacteria.

Mirzajani F(1), Askari H, Hamzelou S, Farzaneh M, Ghassempour A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Phytochemistry, Medicinal Plants and Drugs Research Institute, 
Shahid Beheshti University, GC Evin, Tehran, Iran.

Silver nanoparticles (AgNPs) are widely used as antibacterial and antifungal 
agents in agriculture. Nevertheless, these nanoparticles with newborn properties 
pose a potential risk to the environment, Due to contact with crops and bacteria 
that are beneficial to the soil. This study is based on the examination of the 
phytotoxic effects of AgNPs on Oryza sativa L. and some of its rhizosphere 
bacteria, by physiological and biochemical assays. In order to study the complex 
interaction of the AgNPs life expectancy that are mixed with culture medium, the 
incubation time for the fresh mixture, 7, 14 and 21 days old of AgNPs, on the 
seedlings growth was investigated. Results indicated that plant's response to 
the treatment with AgNPs affected on the cell wall, and that with an increase in 
its concentration (up to 60 μg/mL). The obtained results of transmission 
electron microscopy (TEM) exhibited that those particles not only penetrated the 
cell wall, but they could also damage the cell morphology and its structural 
features. AgNPs treatment up to 30 μg/mL accelerated root growth and at 60 μg/mL 
was able to restrict a root's ability to grow. The 30 μg/mL treatment had 
significant effect on root branching and dry weight. In contrast, shoot growth 
was more susceptible to the effects of AgNPs treatment. The root content for 
total soluble carbohydrates and starch demonstrated that despite stable starch 
content, total soluble carbohydrates showed the tendency to significantly 
decline in response to AgNPs. However, induction of root branching and 
photosynthetic pigments can attributed to AgNPs stress based on evidence from 
the production of the reactive oxygen species (ROS) and local root tissue death. 
Nine isolates of the genus Bacillus selected and identified according to 
morphological and chemotaxonomic methods. The AgNPs treatment revolutionized the 
populations of bacteria as Bacillus thuringiensis SBURR1 was totally eliminated, 
and Bacillus amyloliquefaciens SBURR5 became the most populated one. Images from 
an electron microscope and the leakage of reducing sugars and protein through 
the bacterial membrane, similarly confirmed the "pit" formation mechanism of the 
AgNPs. Moreover the hypothesis from the growth curve study demonstrated that 
AgNPs may damage bacterium cell wall and transform them to protoplasts.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2012.10.018
PMID: 23174269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. PM R. 2012 Nov;4(11):805-11. doi: 10.1016/j.pmrj.2012.09.583.

Basic principles regarding strength, flexibility, and stability exercises.

Micheo W(1), Baerga L, Miranda G.

Author information:
(1)Physical Medicine, Rehabilitation and Sports Medicine Department and Sports 
Medicine Fellowship Program, University of Puerto Rico, School of Medicine, 
Medical Sciences Campus, PO Box 365067, San Juan, PR 00936-5067. wmicheo@usa.net

Strength, flexibility, and stability are physiologic parameters associated with 
health-related physical fitness. Each of these domains affects health in 
general, the risk of injury, how an injury is treated, and performance in 
activities of daily living and sports. These domains are affected by individual 
phenotype, age, deconditioning, occupational activity, and formal exercise. 
Deficits or loss of strength, flexibility, and stability can be prevented or 
reduced with exercise programs. Normal muscle strength has been associated with 
general health benefits, increased life expectancy, psychological benefits, 
prevention of illness, and reduction of disability in older adults. Static 
flexibility programs have been shown to improve joint range of motion and 
tolerance to stretch but do not appear to reduce the risk of musculoskeletal 
injury and may impair muscle performance immediately after a static stretch. 
Dynamic flexibility, on the other hand, may enhance power and improve 
sports-specific performance. Stability training leads to improved balance and 
neuromuscular control, may prevent injury to the knee and ankle joints, and can 
be used for treatment of patients with low back pain.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmrj.2012.09.583
PMID: 23174542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. PM R. 2012 Nov;4(11):882-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pmrj.2012.10.008.

Exercise for patients with osteoporosis: management of vertebral compression 
fractures and trunk strengthening for fall prevention.

Sinaki M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, College of Mayo Clinic, 
200 First St SW, Rochester, MN 55905, USA. sinaki.mehrsheed@mayo.edu

Maintenance of bone health and quality requires mechanical strain, but the 
mechanical force needs to be within the bone's biomechanical competence. In 
osteoporosis, compression of vertebral bodies can be insidious. Therefore, 
absence of pain does not necessarily indicate absence of vertebral microfracture 
and deformity. Further, patients with previous vertebral fractures are at risk 
for further vertebral fractures and their associated morbidity. Exercise is a 
part of the comprehensive management of patients with osteoporosis and has been 
associated with improvement of quality of life and lowered risk of future 
fracture. The exercise prescription needs to match the needs of the patient. If 
exercise is not prescribed properly, then it may have negative consequences. In 
general, an exercise program, therapeutic or recreational, needs to address 
flexibility, muscle strength, core stability, cardiovascular fitness, and gait 
steadiness. As with pharmacotherapy, therapeutic exercises need to be 
individualized on the basis of musculoskeletal status and an individual's 
exercise interest. In osteoporosis, axial strength and stability are of primary 
importance. In particular, a spinal extensor strengthening program should be 
performed with progressive measured resistance as tolerated. To address falls 
and fractures, an exercise program should also include balance and lower 
extremity strength training. Proper dosing of oral cholecalciferol and calcium 
supplements can enhance the effect of strengthening exercises. Finally, a 
coordinated approach, such as the Spinal Proprioception Extension Exercise 
Dynamic (SPEED) program, can improve back extensor strength, the level of 
physical activity, and locomotion, and reduce back pain and fear and risk of 
falls.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmrj.2012.10.008
PMID: 23174554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Palliat Med. 2013 Sep;27(8):714-21. doi: 10.1177/0269216312464408. Epub 2012
Nov  21.

Neuropathic cancer pain: prevalence, severity, analgesics and impact from the 
European Palliative Care Research Collaborative-Computerised Symptom Assessment 
study.

Rayment C(1), Hjermstad MJ, Aass N, Kaasa S, Caraceni A, Strasser F, Heitzer E, 
Fainsinger R, Bennett MI; European Palliative Care Research Collaborative 
(EPCRC).

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Palliative Care, St Gemma's Hospice, Leeds, UK. 
clareruddock@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Neuropathic pain causes greater pain intensity and worse quality of 
life than nociceptive pain. There are no published data that confirm this in the 
cancer population.
AIM: We hypothesised that patients with neuropathic cancer pain had more intense 
pain, experienced greater suffering and were treated with more analgesics than 
those with nociceptive cancer pain, and a neuropathic pain screening tool, 
painDETECT, would perform as well in those with cancer pain as is reported in 
those with non-cancer pain.
DESIGN: The data were obtained from an international cross-sectional 
observational study.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: A total of 1051 patients from inpatients and outpatients, 
with incurable cancer completed a computerised assessment on symptoms, function 
and quality of life. In all, 17 centres within eight countries participated. 
Medical data were recorded by physicians. Pain type was a clinical diagnosis 
recorded on the Edmonton Classification System for Cancer Pain.
RESULTS: Of the patients, 670 had pain: 534 with nociceptive pain, 113 with 
neuropathic pain and 23 were unclassified. Patients with neuropathic cancer pain 
were significantly more likely to be receiving oncological treatment, strong 
opioids and adjuvant analgesia and have a reduced performance status. They 
reported worse physical, cognitive and social function. Sensitivity and 
specificity of painDETECT for identifying neuropathic cancer pain was less 
accurate than when used in non-cancer populations.
CONCLUSIONS: Neuropathic cancer pain is associated with a negative impact on 
daily living and greater analgesic requirements than nociceptive cancer pain. 
Validated assessment methods are needed to enable early identification of 
neuropathic cancer pain, leading to more appropriate treatment and reduced 
burden on patients.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216312464408
PMID: 23175513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Nig Q J Hosp Med. 2012 Jan-Mar;22(1):44-51.

A classification system for recurrent ameloblastoma of the jaws--review of 30 
cases in Nigerians.

Arotiba GT(1), Effiom AO, Ayodele AS, Ogundana MO, Gbotolorun MO, Olasoji HO, 
James O, Ladeinde AL, Ugboko VI, Ndukwe KC, Ikem IC, Braimah RO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral & Maxillofacial Surgery, Faculty of Dental Sciences, Lagos 
University Teaching Hospital, Lagos. drgtarotiba@gmail.com

This paper reviewed the clinicopathologic presentation of recurrent 
ameloblastoma in 30 Nigerian patients at three tertiary referral centers with 
the sole objective of developing a classification system. Most recurrences 
occurred in patients in their 3rd decade of life (20-29years) and males were 
more frequently affected than females (1.5 to 1). Though enucleation resulted in 
the highest rate of recurrences (30%), hemi-mandibulectomy also resulted in a 
20% recurrence rate. Majority of the recurrences occurred within 5 to 9 years 
after primary surgery. Most primary jaw sites of the lesion corresponded with 
the primary jaw sites of the recurrent tumor which in itself may be a reflection 
of inadequate primary treatment. The most frequent anatomic site of primary 
tumors that recurred was c4 (highest level of ramus involvement). The most 
frequent anatomic classification of the recurrent tumors was recurrence at one 
bone margin (Bla) and recurrence at intervening /adjacent soft tissues between 
the resected bone edges (Blc). Mandible to maxilla recurrence increases the 
likelihood of extension to the skull and brain.

PMID: 23175880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Nov 23;12:426. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-426.

An exercise intervention to prevent falls in Parkinson's: an economic 
evaluation.

Fletcher E(1), Goodwin VA, Richards SH, Campbell JL, Taylor RS.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Research Group, University of Exeter Medical School, Smeall 
Building, St Luke's Campus, Magdalen Road, Exeter EX1 2LU, UK.

BACKGROUND: People with Parkinson's (PwP) experience frequent and recurrent 
falls. As these falls may have devastating consequences, there is an urgent need 
to identify cost-effective interventions with the potential to reduce falls in 
PwP. The purpose of this economic evaluation is to compare the costs and 
cost-effectiveness of a targeted exercise programme versus usual care for PwP 
who were at risk of falling.
METHODS: One hundred and thirty participants were recruited through specialist 
clinics, primary care and Parkinson's support groups and randomised to either an 
exercise intervention or usual care. Health and social care utilisation and 
health-related quality of life (EQ-5D) were assessed over the 20 weeks of the 
study (ten-week intervention period and ten-week follow up period), and these 
data were complete for 93 participants. Incremental cost per quality adjusted 
life year (QALY) was estimated. The uncertainty around costs and QALYs was 
represented using cost-effectiveness acceptability curves.
RESULTS: The mean cost of the intervention was £76 per participant. Although in 
direction of favour of exercise intervention, there was no statistically 
significant differences between groups in total healthcare (-£128, 95% CI: -734 
to 478), combined health and social care costs (£-35, 95% CI: -817 to 746) or 
QALYs (0.03, 95% CI: -0.02 to 0.03) at 20 weeks. Nevertheless, exploration of 
the uncertainty surrounding these estimates suggests there is more than 80% 
probability that the exercise intervention is a cost-effective strategy relative 
to usual care.
CONCLUSION: Whilst we found no difference between groups in total healthcare, 
total social care cost and QALYs, analyses indicate that there is high 
probability that the exercise intervention is cost-effective compared with usual 
care. These results require confirmation by larger trial-based economic 
evaluations and over the longer term.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-426
PMCID: PMC3560229
PMID: 23176532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Ophthalmology. 2013 Mar;120(3):464-470. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.08.024.
Epub  2012 Nov 20.

Cost-effectiveness of Descemet's stripping endothelial keratoplasty versus 
penetrating keratoplasty.

Bose S(1), Ang M(2), Mehta JS(3), Tan DT(4), Finkelstein E(5).

Author information:
(1)Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore, Republic of Singapore. 
Electronic address: saideep.bose@duke.edu.
(2)Singapore National Eye Center, Singapore, Republic of Singapore; Singapore 
Eye Research Institute, Singapore, Republic of Singapore.
(3)Singapore National Eye Center, Singapore, Republic of Singapore; Singapore 
Eye Research Institute, Singapore, Republic of Singapore; Department of 
Ophthalmology, National University Health Systems, Singapore, Republic of 
Singapore; Department of Clinical Sciences, Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, 
Singapore, Republic of Singapore.
(4)Singapore National Eye Center, Singapore, Republic of Singapore.
(5)Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore, Republic of Singapore.

PURPOSE: Selective endothelial transplantation in the form of Descemet's 
stripping endothelial keratoplasty (DSEK) is rapidly replacing traditional 
full-thickness penetrating keratoplasty (PK) for endothelial disease. An 
incremental cost-effectiveness analysis was performed to determine whether the 
benefits of DSEK are worth the additional costs.
DESIGN: Retrospective cohort study.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients at the Singapore National Eye Center, a tertiary eye 
center in Singapore, with Fuchs' dystrophy or bullous keratopathy who underwent 
either PK or DSEK.
INTERVENTION: Patients underwent either PK (n = 171) or DSEK (n = 93) from 
January 2001 through December 2007. Data were collected from inpatient and 
outpatient notes corresponding to the time immediately before the procedure to 
up to 3 years after.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Improvements in best spectacle-corrected visual acuity 
were used to calculate the increase in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 3 
years after the procedure. This was combined with hospital charges (a proxy for 
costs) to determine incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) comparing PK 
with no intervention and DSEK with PK.
RESULTS: Three-year charges for DSEK and PK were $7476 and $7236, respectively. 
The regression-adjusted improvement in visual acuity for PK relative to no 
intervention was -0.613 logarithm of the minimum angle of resolution (logMAR) 
units (P<0.001), and for DSEK relative to PK, it was -0.199 logMAR units (P = 
0.045). The regression-adjusted marginal gain in utility for PK relative to no 
intervention was 0.128 QALYs (P<0.001) and for DSEK relative to PK was 0.046 
QALYs (P = 0.031). This resulted in ICERs of $56 409 per QALY for PK relative to 
no intervention and $5209 per QALY for the more expensive DSEK relative to PK.
CONCLUSIONS: If the goal is to maximize societal health gains given fixed 
resources, DSEK should be the preferred strategy. For a fixed budget, it is 
possible to achieve greater QALY gains by providing DSEK to as many patients as 
possible (and nothing to others), rather than providing PK.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.08.024
PMID: 23177366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2013 Aug;46(2):173-81. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.08.009. Epub 2012 Nov 21.

Association between referral-to-death interval and location of death of patients 
referred to a hospital-based specialist palliative care service.

Poulose JV(1), Do YK, Neo PS.

Author information:
(1)Lien Centre for Palliative Care, Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School Singapore, 
Singapore.

CONTEXT: The time interval between palliative care referral and death may play a 
role in determining the last place of care and location of death of patients 
referred to palliative care teams.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the association between the referral-to-death interval 
and location of death of patients referred to a hospital-based palliative care 
service in Singapore.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of data from a palliative care service's 
administrative database was performed. Individual patient's referral-to-death 
interval was calculated using the date of first contact with the service and 
date of death. Multinomial regression analysis was done to determine the 
influence of referral-to-death interval in predicting death at home and in an 
inpatient hospice facility compared with death in hospital, separately by 
gender.
RESULTS: Of 842 patients, 52% were female and 56% were aged 65 years or older. 
Terminal cancer was the diagnosis for most patients (86%). Three hundred ninety 
patients (46%) died outside the hospital setting. A referral-to-death interval 
of ≥30 days (as opposed to <30 days) was associated with an increased likelihood 
of dying at home (odds ratio [OR] 2.21, 95% CI 1.34-3.67 for males and OR 3.33, 
95% CI 2.07-5.35 for females) or in an inpatient hospice facility (OR 2.02, 95% 
CI 1.13-3.60 for males and OR 2.69, 95% CI 1.55-4.66 for females) compared with 
death in hospital. Male patients' age, ethnicity, and marital status were found 
to be the contributing factors in predicting death at home.
CONCLUSION: Longer referral-to-death interval was associated with death outside 
the hospital for patients enrolled in a hospital-based service. The study 
highlights the importance of early referral in predicting the last place of care 
and location of death of palliative care patients.

Copyright © 2013 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.08.009
PMID: 23177723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Mol Cell. 2013 Jan 24;49(2):359-367. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2012.10.016. Epub
 2012 Nov 21.

Genome-wide methylation profiles reveal quantitative views of human aging rates.

Hannum G(#)(1), Guinney J(#)(2), Zhao L(3)(4)(5), Zhang L(3)(4)(5)(6), Hughes 
G(4)(5), Sadda S(7), Klotzle B(8), Bibikova M(8), Fan JB(8), Gao Y(9), Deconde 
R(1)(10), Chen M(1), Rajapakse I(11), Friend S(2), Ideker T(1)(4)(10), Zhang 
K(3)(4)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioengineering, University of California, San Diego, CA 92093, 
USA.
(2)Sage Bionetworks, Seattle, WA 98109, USA.
(3)Molecular Medicine Research Center and Department of Ophthalmology, State Key 
Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 
610041, China.
(4)Institute for Genomic Medicine, University of California, San Diego, CA 
92093, USA.
(5)Department of Ophthalmology, University of California, San Diego, CA 92093, 
USA.
(6)Guangzhou iGenomics Co., Ltd, Guangzhou 510300, China.
(7)Doheny Eye Institute, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 
90033, USA.
(8)Illumina Incorporation, San Diego, CA 92122, USA.
(9)Lieber Institute, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA.
(10)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Diego, CA 92093, USA.
(11)Division of Basic Sciences and Biostatistics, Fred Hutchinson Cancer 
Research Center, Seattle, WA 98110, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

Comment in
    Nat Rev Genet. 2013 Jan;14(1):6.

The ability to measure human aging from molecular profiles has practical 
implications in many fields, including disease prevention and treatment, 
forensics, and extension of life. Although chronological age has been linked to 
changes in DNA methylation, the methylome has not yet been used to measure and 
compare human aging rates. Here, we build a quantitative model of aging using 
measurements at more than 450,000 CpG markers from the whole blood of 656 human 
individuals, aged 19 to 101. This model measures the rate at which an 
individual's methylome ages, which we show is impacted by gender and genetic 
variants. We also show that differences in aging rates help explain epigenetic 
drift and are reflected in the transcriptome. Moreover, we show how our aging 
model is upheld in other human tissues and reveals an advanced aging rate in 
tumor tissue. Our model highlights specific components of the aging process and 
provides a quantitative readout for studying the role of methylation in 
age-related disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2012.10.016
PMCID: PMC3780611
PMID: 23177740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Prog Urol. 2012 Dec;22(16):1004-9. doi: 10.1016/j.purol.2012.07.001. Epub
2012  Aug 29.

[Indications for ablative treatment in kidney cancer in the elderly].

[Article in French]

Froger L(1), Neuzillet Y, Lebret T.

Author information:
(1)Service d'urologie, CHU Saint Louis, Paris, France.

INTRODUCTION: Approximately, 30% of kidney cancers are diagnosed in patients 
over 75 years, mostly by fortuitously. This review had identified the 
indications of ablative treatment among others options for kidney cancer in 
these elderly patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A bibliographic research in French and English using 
Medline(®) with the keywords "tumor"; "kidney"; "radio frequency" and 
"cryoablation" was performed.
RESULTS: The expected benefits were less morbidity, reduced hospital stay and 
preservation of renal function. Ablative techniques have allowed a satisfactory 
cancer control but lower than that obtained by surgical excision at the cost of 
a lower morbidity. Cryoablation has allowed better oncological results than the 
radiofrequency. A decision tree for management of small renal tumors in patients 
defining a role for these treatments depending on the patient's life expectancy, 
its comorbidities (Charlson index) and tumor size was proposed.
CONCLUSION: The preferential indications for cryoablation and radiofrequency 
treatments in elderly patients are tumors under 3cm and less than 4cm 
respectively, when life expectancy is between 3 and 7 years.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.purol.2012.07.001
PMID: 23178096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Dec;14(6):947-57. doi: 10.1007/s10198-012-0441-4.
Epub  2012 Nov 18.

Targeted screening for Coeliac Disease among irritable bowel syndrome patients: 
analysis of cost-effectiveness and value of information.

Mohseninejad L(1), Feenstra T, van der Horst HE, Woutersen-Koch H, Buskens E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University Medical Center Groningen, University 
of Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, PO Box 30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The Netherlands, 
mohseninejadl@epi.umcg.nl.

OBJECTIVES: A high prevalence of Coeliac Disease (CD) is found among patients 
with a clinical diagnosis of irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) compared to the 
general population. Symptoms of CD are quite similar to IBS, but its treatment 
is different. The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
screening for CD in patients with diarrhoea/mixed type IBS (IBS-D/mix) in terms 
of cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) in the Netherlands.
METHODS: A decision model was constructed to evaluate the costs and health 
benefits of serological testing followed by confirmatory endoscopy with biopsy. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) was performed to examine the effect of 
parameter uncertainty. Finally, the budget impact of implementing the screening 
process was also computed for implementation over a 10-year time horizon.
RESULTS: Screening resulted in an increase of about 0.07 quality life years 
(QALYs) per patient over a lifetime horizon. The incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio was about 6,200 euro/QALY compared to no screening. The PSA showed that 
the uncertainty in cost effectiveness results is not considerable. The value of 
information analysis confirmed the robustness of the results. Screening all 
current patients with diarrhea/mixed type IBS would require a total budget of 
about 25 million Euros over a 10 year time period.
CONCLUSION: Screening patients with IBS-D or IBS-mix for CD is almost certainly 
cost-effective. The screening program would improve the quality of life of those 
patients with IBS symptoms who actually have CD at a relatively low cost.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-012-0441-4
PMID: 23179163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Age Ageing. 2013 Jan;42(1):14-20. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afs165. Epub 2012 Nov
22.

Evolution of the evidence on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and memantine for Alzheimer's disease: 
systematic review and economic model.

Hyde C(1), Peters J, Bond M, Rogers G, Hoyle M, Anderson R, Jeffreys M, Davis S, 
Thokala P, Moxham T.

Author information:
(1)PCMD, University of Exeter, PenTAG, Veysey Building Salmon Pool Lane, Exeter, 
Devon EX2 4SG, UK. christopher.hyde@pcmd.ac.uk

INTRODUCTION: in 2007 the National Institute of Health and Clinical Excellence 
(NICE) restricted the use of acetylcholinesterase inhibitors and memantine.
METHODS: we conducted a health technology assessment (HTA) of the effectiveness 
and cost-effectiveness of donepezil, galantamine, rivastigmine and memantine for 
the treatment of AD to re-consider and up-date the evidence base used to inform 
the 2007 NICE decision. The systematic review of effectiveness targeted 
randomised controlled trials. A comprehensive search, including MEDLINE, Embase 
and the Cochrane Library, was conducted from January 2004 to March 2010. All key 
review steps were done by two reviewers. Random effects meta-analysis was 
conducted. The cost-effectiveness was assessed using a cohort-based model with 
three health states: pre-institutionalised, institutionalised and dead. The 
perspective was NHS and Personal Social Services and the cost year 2009.
RESULTS: confidence about the size and statistical significance of the estimates 
of effect of galantamine, rivastigmine and memantine improved on function and 
global impact in particular. Cost-effectiveness also changed. For donepezil, 
galantamine and rivastigmine, the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) in 2004 was above £50,000; in 2010 the same drugs 'dominated' best 
supportive care (improved clinical outcome at reduced cost). This was primarily 
because of changes in the modelled costs of introducing the drugs. For 
memantine, the cost-effectiveness also improved from a range of £37-53,000 per 
QALY gained to a base-case of £32,000.
CONCLUSION: there has been a change in the evidence base between 2004 and 2010 
consistent with the change in NICE guidance. Further evolution in 
cost-effectiveness estimates is possible particularly if there are changes in 
drug prices.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afs165
PMID: 23179169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Adv Ther. 2012 Dec;29(12):1051-66. doi: 10.1007/s12325-012-0065-1. Epub 2012
Nov  22.

A UK analysis of the cost-effectiveness of Humalog Mix75/25 and Mix50/50 versus 
long-acting basal insulin.

Pollock RF(1), Curtis BH, Smith-Palmer J, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)Ossian Health Economics and Communications, Bäumleingasse 20, 4051, Basel, 
Switzerland. pollock@ossianconsulting.com

INTRODUCTION: As healthcare spending on diabetes and its complications continues 
to rise, the optimization of prescribed insulin regimens is becoming 
increasingly important from both clinical and economic perspectives. The aim of 
the present study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 75/25 biphasic 
insulin lispro and 50/50 biphasic insulin lispro (Humalog® Mix75/25 and Humalog® 
Mix50/50, respectively; Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA) compared 
with a long-acting analog insulin regimen in patients with type 2 diabetes.
METHODS: A published and validated computer simulation model of diabetes was 
used to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 75/25 and 50/50 biphasic insulin 
lispro versus a long-acting analog insulin (insulin glargine) from the 
perspective of a healthcare payer in the UK. Treatment effects in terms of 
glycated hemoglobin (HbA1c) benefits were taken from a recent meta-analysis. 
Direct medical costs including pharmacy, complication, and patient management 
costs were obtained from published sources. All costs were expressed in 2008 
British pounds sterling (GBP), and future costs and clinical benefits were 
discounted at 3.5% per annum. Sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: 75/25 and 50/50 biphasic insulin lispro were associated with 
improvements in life expectancy of 0.09 and 0.13 years, respectively, 
improvements in quality-adjusted life expectancy of 0.09 quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) and 0.12 QALYs, respectively, and reductions in cost of GBP 1,217 
and GBP 430, respectively, when compared with long-acting analog insulin.
CONCLUSION: Based on a recently published meta-analysis, biphasic analog 
insulins are likely to improve clinical outcomes and reduce costs versus 
long-acting analog insulins in the longterm treatment of patients with type 2 
diabetes in the UK.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-012-0065-1
PMID: 23179373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. Support Care Cancer. 2013 Feb;21(2):637-41. doi: 10.1007/s00520-012-1654-x.
Epub  2012 Nov 23.

Informed decision making in advance care planning: concordance of patient 
self-reported diagnosis with physician diagnosis.

Schubart JR(1), Toran L, Whitehead M, Levi BH, Green MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, The Pennsylvania State 
University, 500 University Drive, H151, Hershey, PA 17033, USA. 
jschubart@hmc.psu.edu

PURPOSE: This study aimed to determine the extent to which patients with 
advanced cancer agree with their physicians regarding their cancer diagnoses 
prior to engaging in advance care planning (ACP) and whether variables such as 
age and level of education correlate with the degree of patient-physician 
concordance.
METHODS: One hundred and fifty patients with a diagnosis of cancer and an 
estimated life expectancy of 18 months or less completed questionnaires about 
their cancer diagnoses prior to creating an advance directive. A review of the 
patients' medical records was performed and the physician-designated diagnosis 
was identified for each patient. Patient-physician agreement on diagnosis was 
coded based on predetermined study criteria. Concordance rates were expressed in 
percentages.
RESULTS: The majority of patients (62.2 %) were in exact agreement with their 
physicians; 24.3 % were in partial agreement with the patient missing part of 
the diagnosis, and 9.5 % were in partial agreement with the physician missing 
part of the diagnosis; 4.1 % did not agree with their physicians on diagnosis. 
Age and education level did not correlate with patient-physician concordance 
rates.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of patients with advanced cancer correctly identified 
their cancer diagnosis. However, almost 40 % were not in full agreement with 
their physicians regarding diagnosis, a situation that has bearing on efforts to 
engage in meaningful shared decision making as well as advance care planning.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-012-1654-x
PMID: 23179490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Swiss Med Wkly. 2012 Nov 21;142:w13676. doi: 10.4414/smw.2012.13676.
eCollection  2012.

Alzheimer's dementia: budget impact and cost-utility analysis of a combination 
treatment of a cholinesterase inhibitor and memantine in Switzerland.

Pfeil AM(1), Kressig RW, Szucs TD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine, University of Basel, Switzerland. 
alena.pfeil@unibas.ch

QUESTIONS UNDER STUDY: The objective of this study was to estimate the potential 
budget impact and cost-effectiveness of the combination treatment of a 
cholinesterase inhibitor and memantine in Switzerland.
METHODS: The prevalence of dementia according to European sources and future 
Swiss population data were used to estimate the number of patients with 
Alzheimer's dementia in Switzerland. Both direct and indirect costs calculated 
from Swiss sources were included. Utility estimates and transition probabilities 
were obtained from the published literature. A Markov model was used for the 
cost-utility analysis in order to calculate incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios from a health care and a societal perspective.
RESULTS: Assuming mono treatment (either a cholinesterase inhibitor or 
memantine), treatment costs would increase from CHF 22.7 million in 2012 to CHF 
26.1 million in 2016, the additional yearly treatment costs for the combination 
treatment (cholinesterase inhibitor and memantine) would be between CHF 1.7 
million and CHF 1.9 million. The Markov model compared health care costs of the 
mono treatment to costs of the combination treatment over five years. From a 
health care perspective, the combination treatment saved CHF 27,655 per patient 
over five years and CHF 248,895/quality adjusted life year compared to the mono 
treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementation of the reimbursed combination treatment would incur 
additional treatment costs of about CHF 10 million over five years. From a 
health care perspective, the combination treatment would decrease costs over 
five years by CHF 50 million. Based on long term considerations, the combination 
treatment was the dominant strategy over the mono treatment.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2012.13676
PMID: 23180021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Clin Transl Oncol. 2013 Jan;15(1):9-19. doi: 10.1007/s12094-012-0934-8. Epub
 2012 Nov 21.

Analysis of economic evaluations of pharmacological cancer treatments in Spain 
between 1990 and 2010.

Sanz-Granda A(1), Hidalgo A, del Llano JE, Rovira J.

Author information:
(1)Weber Economía y Salud, Pharmacoeconomics Department, Madrid, Spain.

Economic evaluation of pharmacological cancer treatment is a critical clinical 
problem currently under consideration worldwide. We have analysed their main 
characteristics in Spain between 1990 and 2010 following a systematic review of 
the 29 complete economic analyses published. The pathology most frequently 
evaluated was non-small cell lung cancer (31 %). Cost-effectiveness analyses (69 
%) were the most frequent analyses. A wide range of incremental 
cost-effectiveness values (295-160,667 € /QALY) has been reported, and mostly 
are developed from the perspective of the National Health System (65.5 %). 
However, none of the studies estimated the indirect costs. The major conclusion 
is that the absence of regulations concerning the application of the efficiency 
criterion in decision-making on the subject of price and financing and, most 
importantly, the fact that these are not included in Spanish hospitals forms 
make it difficult to analyse the real impact of economic evaluations of cancer 
treatments on such decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-012-0934-8
PMID: 23180344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Br J Surg. 2013 Jan;100(2):231-9. doi: 10.1002/bjs.8960. Epub 2012 Nov 23.

Modelling the cost-effectiveness of carotid endarterectomy for asymptomatic 
stenosis.

Thapar A(1), Garcia Mochon L, Epstein D, Shalhoub J, Davies AH.

Author information:
(1)Academic Section of Vascular Surgery, Imperial College London, London, UK. 
a.thapar09@imperial.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to model the cost-effectiveness of carotid 
endarterectomy for asymptomatic stenosis versus medical therapy based on 10-year 
data from the Asymptomatic Carotid Surgery Trial (ACST).
METHODS: This was a cost-utility analysis based on clinical effectiveness data 
from the ACST with UK-specific costs and stroke outcomes. A Markov model was 
used to calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER, or cost per 
additional quality-of-life year) for a strategy of early endarterectomy versus 
medical therapy for the average patient and published subgroups. An exploratory 
analysis considered contemporary event rates.
RESULTS: The ICER was £7584 per additional quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for 
the average patient in the ACST. At thresholds of £20,000 and £30,000 there was 
a 74 and 84 per cent chance respectively of early endarterectomy being 
cost-effective. The ICER for men below 75 years of age was £3254, and that for 
men aged 75 years or above was £71,699. For women aged under 75 years 
endarterectomy was less costly and more effective than medical therapy; for 
women aged 75 years or more endarterectomy was less effective and more costly 
than medical therapy. At contemporary perioperative event rates of 2·7 per cent 
and background any-territory stroke rates of 1·6 per cent, early endarterectomy 
remained cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: In the ACST, early endarterectomy was predicted to be cost-effective 
in those below 75 years of age, using a threshold of £20,000 per QALY. If 
background any-territory stroke rates fell below 1 per cent per annum, early 
endarterectomy would cease to be cost-effective.

Copyright © 2012 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.8960
PMID: 23180450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Clinicoecon Outcomes Res. 2012;4:323-36. doi: 10.2147/CEOR.S33390. Epub 2012
Nov  13.

Economic analysis of Heart and Stroke Foundation of Ontario's Hypertension 
Management Initiative.

de Oliveira C(1), Wijeysundera HC, Tobe SW, Lum-Kwong MM, Von Sychowski S, Wang 
X, Tu JV, Krahn MD.

Author information:
(1)University Health Network, Toronto, ON, Canada ; Toronto Health Economics and 
Technology Assessment Collaborative, Toronto, ON, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Hypertension is suboptimally treated in primary care settings. We 
evaluated the cost-effectiveness of the Heart and Stroke Foundation of Ontario's 
Hypertension Management Initiative (HMI), an interdisciplinary, 
evidence-informed chronic disease management model for primary care that focuses 
on improving blood pressure management and control by primary care providers and 
patients according to clinical best practice guidelines.
METHODS: The perspective of our analysis was that of the Ontario Ministry of 
Health and Long-Term Care with a lifetime horizon and 5% annual discount rate. 
Using data from a prospective cohort study from the HMI, we created two matched 
groups: pre-HMI (standard care), and post-HMI (n = 1720). For each patient, we 
estimated the 10-year risk of cardiovascular disease (CVD) using the Framingham 
risk equation and life expectancy from life tables. Long-term health care costs 
incurred with physician visits, acute and chronic care hospitalizations, 
emergency department visits, same-day surgeries, and medication use were 
determined through linkage to administrative databases, using a bottom-up 
approach.
RESULTS: The HMI intervention was associated with significant reductions in 
systolic blood pressure (126 mmHg vs 134 mmHg with standard care; P-value < 
0.001). These improvements were associated with a reduction in the 10-year risk 
of CVD (9.5% risk vs 10.7% in standard care; P-value < 0.001) and a 
statistically significant improvement in discounted life expectancy (9.536 years 
vs 9.516 in standard care; P-value < 0.001). The HMI cohort had a discounted 
mean lifetime cost of $22,884 CAD vs $22,786 CAD for standard care, with an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $4939 CAD per life-year gained.
