microenvironment of the diseased tissue via delivery of neurotrophic factors 
(NTFs). Previously, we established that bone marrow derived human mesenchymal 
stem cells (MSCs) can be differentiated using medium based cues into 
NTF-secreting cells (NTF+ cells) that express astrocytic markers. NTF+ cells 
were shown to alleviate neurodegeneration symptoms in several disease models in 
vitro and in vivo, including the model for excitotoxicity. In the present study, 
we explored if the timing of intrastriatal transplantation of hNTF+ cells into 
the R6/2 transgenic mouse model for HD influences motor function and survival. 
One hundred thousand cells were transplanted bilaterally into the striatum of 
immune-suppressed mice at 4.5, 5.5 and 6.5 weeks of age. Contrary to our 
expectations, early transplantation of NTF+ cells did not improve motor function 
or overall survival. However, late (6.5 weeks) transplantation resulted in a 
temporary improvement in motor function and an extension of life span relative 
to that observed for PBS treated mice. We conclude that late transplantation of 
NTF+ cells induces a beneficial effect in this transgenic model for HD. Since no 
transplanted NTF+ cells could be detected in vivo, we suspect that the temporary 
nature of the beneficial effect is due to poor survival of transplanted cells. 
In general, we submit that NTF+ cells should be further evaluated for the 
therapy of HD.

DOI: 10.1371/4f7f6dc013d4e
PMCID: PMC3426086
PMID: 22953237


129. J La State Med Soc. 2012 Jul-Aug;164(4):191-3.

Successful transplantation of HIV patients: the Louisiana experience.

Hayes K(1), Van Sickels N, Buell J, Killackey M, Zhang R, Slakey D, Lukitsch I, 
Alper A Jr, Mushatt D, Asad S, Paramesh A.

Author information:
(1)Tulane University School of Medicine, USA.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) seropositivity has historically been an 
absolute contraindication for solid organ transplantation. However, the 
successful application of HAART (highly active anti-retroviral therapy) drug 
regimens has greatly prolonged the life expectancy of HIV-positive patients. 
Therefore, it has become appropriate to consider this patient population for 
transplantation. HIV positive transplants are being performed around the country 
in controlled settings, usually as part of a research protocol. The aim of our 
study is to describe the Louisiana experience with organ transplantation into 
HIV-positive patients. We identified seven HIV-positive patients who underwent 
kidney or kidney/pancreas transplantation at our center between 2007 and 2010. 
We performed a retrospective chart review to ascertain graft function, as well 
as virologic and immunologic status post-transplant. Renal function (glomerular 
filtration rate and serum creatinine concentrations) improved in all subjects 
post-transplant, and six of seven (85.8%) subjects remained virologically 
suppressed with no progression to Acquired Immunodeficiency Syndrome (AIDS). 
Overall, two-year graft and patient survival rates were 85.5%. HIV seropositive 
End Stage Renal Disease (ESRD) patients represent a new population of patients 
that can be successfully transplanted. This offers a new dimension in care for 
successful HAART therapy to prolong the life of HIV-infected patients.

PMID: 22953455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Isr Med Assoc J. 2012 Jul;14(7):435-41.

Women's higher risk with N-6 PUFA vs. men's relative advantage: an "N-6 gender 
nutrition paradox" hypothesis.

Shapira N(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Nutrition Research, Rabin Medical Center (Beilinson Campus), 
Petah Tikva, Israel. nivnet@inter.net.il

The "Israeli Paradox" (1996) of low national health rankings despite adequate 
diet - attributed to high dietary n-6 polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) - 
coincided with long-observed dichotomies between women's worse international 
status vs. men's advantage. This raised the possibility of a gender link to high 
n-6 risk potentially explaining both national phenomena. Israeli women's 
disadvantage was shown by worse international rankings, i.e., life expectancy 
(LE)--11th vs. men's 3rd-best/22 countries (2000), and 14th vs. 6th/34 (2010); 
and all-cause and all-cancer mortality--both 15th vs. 2nd-best/22 (2000), and 
15th vs. 6th/22 and 12th vs. 2nd-best/22 (2010). Cancer mortality rates for 
breast were 21.8% above vs. prostate 30.4% below Eur-A (27 country) averages 
(2005). Gender gaps/ ratios were smaller than European Union-15 averages, i.e., 
for LE at birth by 34.4-26.4% (2000-2010), respectively, and at 65 years 
45.9-35.3%; all-cause mortality by 43.3-33.4%, and all-cancer 65.2-58.7%. The 
Israeli diet was mostly close to guidelines, but n-6 intake (10-12% kcal) was 
much higher than recommended and traditional "Mediterranean diet" levels. 
Research showing females' greater potential for conversion of PUFA to long-chain 
PUFA (LCPUFA) may suggest increased production of n-6 eicosanoids with known 
proinflammatory/oxidative/carcinogenic potential. An "Israeli N-6 Gender 
Nutrition Paradox" hypothesis is suggested here for the first time, associating 
women's higher risk and lead in the national "paradox" with greater potential 
for n-6 conversion to pro-inflammatory/oxidative/carcinogenic eicosanoids 
compared to men. This may also exacerbate women's risk associated with genetic 
predisposition (i.e., BRCA) and/or sociopolitical stress. Global abandonment of 
traditional diets/foods together with increasing n-6 consumption and western 
disease rates emphasize the importance of considering gender nutrition in 
epidemiology and preventive strategies.

PMID: 22953621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. J Sch Health. 2012 Oct;82(10):484-91. doi: 10.1111/j.1746-1561.2012.00726.x.

A menu for health: changes to New York City school food, 2001 to 2011.

Perlman SE(1), Nonas C, Lindstrom LL, Choe-Castillo J, McKie H, Alberti PM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, New York City Department of Health and Mental 
Hygiene, Queens, NY 11101, USA. sperlma1@health.nyc.gov

BACKGROUND: The high prevalence of obesity puts children at risk for chronic 
diseases, increases health care costs, and threatens to reduce life expectancy. 
As part of the response to this epidemic, the New York City (NYC) Department of 
Education (DOE)--the nation's largest school district--has worked to improve the 
appeal and nutritional quality of school food. This article highlights some of 
the structural and policy changes that have improved the school food environment 
over the past decade, with the aim to share lessons learned and provide 
recommendations and resources for other districts interested in making similar 
modifications.
METHODS: This article details changes DOE has implemented over 10 years, 
including revised nutrition standards for school meals and competitive foods; 
new school food department staffing; food reformulations, substitutions, and 
additions; and transitions to healthier beverages.
RESULTS: NYC's revised nutrition standards and hiring of expert staff increased 
availability of fruits and vegetables, whole grains, and low-fat dairy and 
decreased sugary beverages, and foods high in saturated fats and added 
sugars--the major contributors to discretionary calorie intake. DOE also 
introduced healthier beverages: switching from high-calorie, high-fat whole milk 
to low-fat milk and increasing access to water.
CONCLUSIONS: NYC has successfully improved the quality of its school food 
environment and shown that healthier food service is possible, even under 
budgetary constraints. Several broad factors facilitated these efforts: 
fostering community partnerships and inter-agency collaboration, implementing 
policies and initiatives that target multiple sectors for greater impact, and 
working to make incremental improvements each year.

© 2012, American School Health Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1746-1561.2012.00726.x
PMID: 22954168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Eur J Intern Med. 2013 Jan;24(1):67-74. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2012.08.004.
Epub  2012 Sep 4.

Cardiovascular risk factors predict survival in middle-aged men during 50 years.

Menotti A(1), Puddu PE, Lanti M, Maiani G, Fidanza F.

Author information:
(1)Association for Cardiac Research - Associazione per la Ricerca Cardiologica, 
Rome, Italy. menottia@tin.it

OBJECTIVES: We aimed at studying the expectancy of life in middle-aged men as a 
function of several personal characteristics and risk factors.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A sample of 1712 Italian men aged 40-59, first examined in 
1960, was followed-up for mortality for 50 years. The length of survival was 
estimated as a function of 48 personal characteristics and risk factors using 
the multiple linear regression.
RESULTS: In 50 years 1672 men died (97.7%) and 40 survived (2.3%). Twenty risk 
factors, most of which were never measured in previous studies of such duration, 
proved to be significant, for the estimation of survival with an overall 
adjusted R(2) of 0.3236. They were: age, 4 anthropometric measurements (body 
mass index, and its squared term, laterality-linearity index, shoulder/pelvis 
shape), mean blood pressure, father and mother history of premature (<65-year) 
death, marital status, arm circumference, 2 respiratory measurements (vital 
capacity and forced expiratory volume), serum cholesterol, corneal arcus, 
xantelasma, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, diabetes and chronic bronchitis. 
Coefficients of 5 suitable risk factors became definitely larger after 
adjustment for regression dilution bias with 5 year data. All 40 cases of 
survival were located in the higher 5 deciles of estimated survival and 25 
(62.5%) were in the upper decile.
CONCLUSION: A small number of risk factors and personal characteristics, mainly 
known as cardiovascular risk factors and measured once in middle-aged men, are 
strongly associated with the length of survival in a 50-year follow-up.

Copyright © 2012 European Federation of Internal Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2012.08.004
PMID: 22954458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Neurology. 2012 Sep 18;79(12):1259-67. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31826aac73.
Epub  2012 Sep 5.

Cost-effectiveness of HLA-B*1502 genotyping in adult patients with newly 
diagnosed epilepsy in Singapore.

Dong D(1), Sung C, Finkelstein EA.

Author information:
(1)Health Services & Systems Research Program, Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, 
Singapore. dong_di87@nus.edu.sg

Comment in
    Neurology. 2013 Apr 23;80(17):1621.
    Neurology. 2013 Apr 23;80(17):1621-2.

OBJECTIVE: Asians who carry the HLA-B*1502 allele have an elevated risk of 
developing Stevens-Johnson syndrome (SJS) and toxic epidermal necrolysis (TEN) 
when treated with the antiepileptic drugs (AEDs) carbamazepine (CBZ) and 
phenytoin (PHT). With a focus on Singapore, this analysis identifies 
circumstances in which genotyping and targeted treatment with alternative AEDs 
that do not induce SJS/TEN is likely to be more cost-effective than 1) treatment 
with CBZ or PHT without genotyping or 2) providing a more expensive drug that 
does not induce SJS/TEN to all patients without genotyping.
METHODS: A decision tree model was developed in TreeAge. The model takes into 
account costs of epilepsy treatments and genotyping, reductions in quality of 
life and increased costs resulting from SJS/TEN complications, the prevalence of 
the risk allele, the positive predictive value (PPV) of genotyping, life 
expectancy, and other factors.
RESULTS: Compared with no genotyping and providing CBZ to all, genotyping 
results in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $37,030/quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY) for Chinese patients, $7,930/QALY for Malays, and $136,630/QALY 
for Indians in Singapore.
CONCLUSIONS: Because of the different population allele frequencies of 
HLA-B*1502 among different ethnic groups, genotyping for HLA-B*1502 and 
providing alternate AEDs to those who test positive is cost-effective for 
Singaporean Chinese and Malays, but not for Singaporean Indians. Population 
frequency of HLA-B*1502, PPV, duration of treatment relative to life expectancy, 
and costs of alternative drugs are the key drivers influencing 
cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e31826aac73
PMID: 22955130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2012 Oct;46 Suppl:S81-4. doi: 
10.1097/MCG.0b013e3182693982.

Cultivable and pyrosequenced fecal microflora in centenarians and young 
subjects.

Drago L(1), Toscano M, Rodighiero V, De Vecchi E, Mogna G.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Chemistry and Microbiology, IRCCS Galeazzi Institute, 
Milan, Italy. lorenzo.drago@unimi.it

GOAL: The aim of this study was to characterize the composition of the 
intestinal microbiota in healthy centenarians in comparison with younger adults, 
considering both quantitative and qualitative aspects of gut community 
structure.
BACKGROUND: The gut microbiota plays an essential role in human health. Toward 
seniority, its balance is affected by deep physiological changes. Long-lived 
people (age >90 y) have unusual features that differ from the younger elderly, 
so they should be considered separately when analyzing age-related features. 
However, they have been included in few studies and they have usually been 
grouped together with the younger elderly.
STUDY: The gut microbiota of 14 centenarians and 10 younger adults was analyzed. 
Cultivable bacteria belonging to the following groups were enumerated: 
enterobacteriaceae, Enterococcus, Staphylococcus, Lactobacillus, 
Bifidobacterium, Clostridium, Bacteroides, and yeast. Lactobacilli and 
Bifidobacteria were further characterized at the species level by 
pyrosequencing.
RESULTS: : In centenarians, we observed a reduction in the quantity of 
enterobacteriaceae, bifidobacteria, and bacteroides and an increase in 
clostridia sensu stricto (P<0.05). The number of Lactobacillus and 
Bifidobacterium species isolated in centenarians and younger adults was similar. 
The composition of the Lactobacillus subpopulation was quite different between 
the groups. The presence of Bifidobacterium longum in the gut seems to be a 
particular feature in centenarians. It is interesting to note that only 1 strain 
of B. longum was isolated from each centenarian subject.
CONCLUSIONS: The gut microbiota of centenarians has particular features that 
differ from both younger adults and the younger elderly. Further studies would 
help to understand whether the intestinal microbiota can influence life 
expectancy and whether the administration of probiotic bacteria could help to 
extend the longevity of human life.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0b013e3182693982
PMID: 22955365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Hip Int. 2012 Jul-Aug;22 Suppl 8:S83-90. doi: 10.5301/HIP.2012.9576.

Incidence and outcome after infection of megaprostheses.

Pilge H(1), Gradl G, von Eisenhart-Rothe R, Gollwitzer H.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Orthopaedics and Sports Orthopaedics, Klinikum Rechts der Isar, 
Technische Universität München, Munich - Germany.

Recent advances in chemotherapy and radiation therapy in the treatment of 
malignant bone tumours as well as the consistent increase of revision 
arthroplasties have been followed by an increased use of megaprostheses. These 
large foreign bodies make infection a common and feared complication. Infection 
rates of 3 - 31% have been reported (average approx. 15%), often in conjunction 
with risk factors, e.g. the anatomic region (pelvis implants in particular), 
implant alloy, and underlying reason for implantation of a megaprosthesis. Apart 
from the basic principles of septic revision arthroplasty, special patient and 
implant factors have to be considered in infected megaprosthesis, which we have 
summarised in our paper (e.g. life expectancy, implant design, spacers and 
external stabilisation). This article further analyses the current literature 
available for these cases and summarises outcome after treatment of 
periprosthetic infections.

DOI: 10.5301/HIP.2012.9576
PMID: 22956377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. J Thromb Thrombolysis. 2013 Feb;35(2):271-8. doi: 10.1007/s11239-012-0802-y.

Percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with haemophilia presenting with 
acute coronary syndrome: an interventional dilemma: case series, review of the 
literature, and tips for management.

Fefer P(1), Gannot S, Lubetsky A, Martinowitz U, Matetzky S, Guetta V, Segev A.

Author information:
(1)Leviev Heart Center, Sheba Medical Center and Tel Aviv University, Tel 
Hashomer, Israel. paulfefer@gmail.com

Since the introduction of clotting factor concentrates over 50 years ago the 
life expectancy of patients with hemophilia (PWH) has increased to over 70 
years. Consequently, diseases of the ageing population, including coronary 
artery disease, are increasingly being encountered. These patients present a 
unique therapeutic problem due to their greatly increased bleeding risk. 
Randomized controlled studies specific to PWH are lacking, emphasizing the need 
for case series. We present three cases of acute coronary syndrome in PWH who 
underwent urgent percutaneous coronary intervention at our institution, and 
summarize the available literature on the topic. We describe their management 
and outcome and provide points to consider when treating these complex patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s11239-012-0802-y
PMID: 22956409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e44759. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0044759. Epub 2012 Sep
5.

Reciprocal regulation of axonal Filopodia and outgrowth during neuromuscular 
junction development.

Li PP(1), Zhou JJ, Meng M, Madhavan R, Peng HB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, The 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong, 
China.

BACKGROUND: The assembly of the vertebrate neuromuscular junction (NMJ) is 
initiated when nerve and muscle first contact each other by filopodial processes 
which are thought to enable close interactions between the synaptic partners and 
facilitate synaptogenesis. We recently reported that embryonic Xenopus spinal 
neurons preferentially extended filopodia towards cocultured muscle cells and 
that basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) produced by muscle activated neuronal 
FGF receptor 1 (FGFR1) to induce filopodia and favor synaptogenesis. 
Intriguingly, in an earlier study we found that neurotrophins (NTs), a different 
set of target-derived factors that act through Trk receptor tyrosine kinases, 
promoted neuronal growth but hindered presynaptic differentiation and NMJ 
formation. Thus, here we investigated how bFGF- and NT-signals in neurons 
jointly elicit presynaptic changes during the earliest stages of NMJ 
development.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: Whereas forced expression of wild-type TrkB in 
neurons reduced filopodial extension and triggered axonal outgrowth, expression 
of a mutant TrkB lacking the intracellular kinase domain enhanced filopodial 
growth and slowed axonal advance. Neurons overexpressing wild-type FGFR1 also 
displayed more filopodia than control neurons, in accord with our previous 
findings, and, notably, this elevation in filopodial density was suppressed when 
neurons were chronically treated from the beginning of the culture period with 
BDNF, the NT that specifically activates TrkB. Conversely, inhibition by BDNF of 
NMJ formation in nerve-muscle cocultures was partly reversed by the 
overexpression of bFGF in muscle.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that the balance between neuronal FGFR1- and 
TrkB-dependent filopodial assembly and axonal outgrowth regulates the 
establishment of incipient NMJs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0044759
PMCID: PMC3434160
PMID: 22957106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


138. Epilepsy Res Treat. 2012;2012:641323. doi: 10.1155/2012/641323. Epub 2011
Nov  24.

Temporal lobe epilepsy in the elderly.

Morillo LE(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, McMaster 
University, Hamilton, ON, Canada L8S 4L8.

The incidence of epilepsy has bimodal distribution peaking at the extremes of 
life. Incidence is greater in younger and older age groups (Hauser et al., 1993, 
Sidenvall et al., 1993, Forsgren et al., 1996, and Olafsson et al., 2005). As 
the world population ages more elders with epilepsy will be identified. In the 
high-income countries with longer life expectancy, the number of elders with 
epilepsy will be even higher. CPSs account for 40% of all seizure types in the 
elderly (Hauser et al., 1992); however, the proportion with temporal lobe 
epilepsy (TLE) is uncertain.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/641323
PMCID: PMC3420781
PMID: 22957236


139. MMW Fortschr Med. 2012 Jul 26;154(13):42. doi: 10.1007/s15006-012-0926-1.

[Late parents].

[Article in German]

Köhn FM(1).

Author information:
(1)Andrologicum München, München.

DOI: 10.1007/s15006-012-0926-1
PMID: 22957382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. J Neurosurg Spine. 2012 Nov;17(5):438-48. doi: 10.3171/2012.7.SPINE12212.
Epub  2012 Sep 7.

Leptomeningeal spinal metastases from glioblastoma multiforme: treatment and 
management of an uncommon manifestation of disease.

Lawton CD(1), Nagasawa DT, Yang I, Fessler RG, Smith ZA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Northwestern University, Chicago, 
Illinois 60661, USA.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is one of the most common and aggressive primary 
brain tumors, composing 12%-20% of all intracranial tumors in adults. Average 
life expectancy is merely 12-14 months following initial diagnosis. Patients 
with this neoplasm have one of the worst 5-year survival rates among all cancers 
despite aggressive multimodal treatment consisting of maximal tumor resection, 
radiation therapy, and adjuvant chemotherapy. With recent advancements in 
management strategies, there has been improvement in the overall trend in 
patient outcomes; however, recurrence remains nearly inevitable. While most 
tumors recur locally, metastases to distal locations have become more common. 
Specifically, the last decade has seen an increased incidence of spinal 
metastases, representing an emerging complication in patients with intracranial 
GBM. However, the literature regarding prevention strategies and the 
presentation of spinal metastases has remained scarce. As local control of 
primary lesions continues to improve, more cases of spinal metastases are likely 
to be seen. In this review the authors present a new case of metastatic GBM to 
the L-5 nerve root, and they summarize previous cases of intracranial GBM with 
leptomeningeal spinal metastatic disease. They also characterize key features of 
this disease presentation and discuss areas of future investigation necessary 
for enhanced prevention and treatment of this complication.

DOI: 10.3171/2012.7.SPINE12212
PMID: 22958073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. J Insect Sci. 2012;12:28. doi: 10.1673/031.012.2801.

Biology and fertility life table of the green aphid Chaetosiphon fragaefolli on 
strawberry cultivars.

Bernardi D(1), Garcia MS, Botton M, Nava DE.

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Faculdade de Agronomia Eliseu Maciel, 
Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Caixa Postal 354, CEP: 96010-900, Pelotas-RS, 
Brazil. dbernardi2004@yahoo.com.br

Our objective was to study the biology and develop a fertility life table for 
the aphid Chaetosiphon fragaefolli (Cockerell) (Hemiptera: Aphididae) on leaves 
of strawberry, Fragaria × ananassa, Duchesne ex Rozier (Rosales: Rosaceae), of 
the cultivars Albion, Aromas, Camarosa, Camino Real, Diamante, Earlibrite, and 
Saborosa. This study was conducted under controlled conditions: 25 ± 1 (°)C, 70 
± 10% RH, and 12:12 L:D . Arenas were set up consisting of leaves inside Petri 
dishes containing 3% agar. Female aphids obtained after the last nymphal ecdysis 
were individually placed in arenas for 24 hours. The following biological 
parameters were evaluated: duration and survival of the nymph stage and of the 
life cycle (nymph-nymph), daily and total fecundity, and adult longevity. The 
aphids completed their biological cycle on all of the cultivars. The shortest 
durations (in days) of the nymphal stage were on the cultivars Camino Real and 
Camarosa (8.67 and 8.74 days, respectively), and the longest was on Aromas 
(11.12 days). The lowest survival was on cultivar Aromas (51%) and the highest 
on Saborosa (96%). When the time to development to the adult stage was compared, 
the aphids developed fastest (14.63 days) and survival was highest (96%) on 
cultivar Saborosa. Aphids reared on cultivar Aromas leaves had the longest 
pre-reproductive period (8.74 days), the greatest longevity (26.88 days), and 
the longest duration of the life cycle (19.76 days). Based on the fertility life 
table, cultivars Camarosa and Saborosa were the most favorable for development 
of C. fragaefolli, while Albion and Aromas were the most inadequate for aphid 
development.

DOI: 10.1673/031.012.2801
PMCID: PMC3471772
PMID: 22958325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. J Insect Sci. 2012;12:44. doi: 10.1673/031.012.4401.

Life table evaluation of survival and reproduction of the aphid, Sitobion 
avenae, exposed to cadmium.

Gao HH(1), Zhao HY, Du C, Deng MM, Du EX, Hu ZQ, Hu XS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Plant Protection, College of Plant Protection, Northwest 
Agriculture and Forest University, State Key Laboratory of Crop Stress Biology 
in Arid Areas, Yangling, Shaanxi 712100, China. gaohuanhuan368@126.com

The effects of cadmium (Cd) on the development, fecundity, and reproduction of 
the grain aphid, Sitobion avenae Fabricius (Hemiptera: Aphididae) were estimated 
by constructing a life table of S. avenae exposed to Cd. The concentrations of 
Cd in the soil were as follows: 0, 10, 20, 40, 80, and 160 mg/kg. The 
correlation analysis of the Cd concentration in soil and wheat revealed that the 
amount in the wheat increased with the increase of Cd concentrations in soil. 
The results indicated that, the latter part of the reproduction period was 
significantly affected by Cd, according to the curve of the total survival rate 
(l(x)). The net reproductive rate (R(0)), innate capacity of increase (r), and 
finite rate of increase (λ) of S. avenae all decreased under the stress of Cd, 
and were lowest at a Cd concentration of 20 mg/kg. Cd also negatively affected 
fecundity and m(x) (the number of offspring produced by an individual female). 
At 20 mg/kg, the decline of them was most obvious. In conclusion, survival and 
reproduction of S. avenae were inhibited under the treatment of the heavy metal 
Cd. Sitobion avenae was more sensitive to Cd at concentration of 20 mg/kg 
compared to the other concentrations. This concentration can be used to examine 
the mechanisms behind population genetics and biological mutation of S. avenae 
when exposed to heavy metal.

DOI: 10.1673/031.012.4401
PMCID: PMC3472964
PMID: 22958415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Nutr J. 2012 Sep 7;11:67. doi: 10.1186/1475-2891-11-67.

Red wine and component flavonoids inhibit UGT2B17 in vitro.

Jenkinson C(1), Petroczi A, Naughton DP.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Kingston University, Penrhyn Road, Kingston upon 
Thames, London, Surrey, KT1 2EE, UK.

BACKGROUND: The metabolism and excretion of the anabolic steroid testosterone 
occurs by glucuronidation to the conjugate testosterone glucuronide which is 
then excreted in urine. Alterations in UGT glucuronidation enzyme activity could 
alter the rate of testosterone excretion and thus its bioavailability. The aim 
of this study is to investigate if red wine, a common dietary substance, has an 
inhibitory effect on UGT2B17.
METHODS: Testosterone glucuronidation was assayed using human UGT2B17 supersomes 
with quantification of unglucuronidated testosterone over time using HPLC with 
DAD detection. The selected red wine was analyzed using HPLC; and the inhibitory 
effects of the wine and phenolic components were tested independently in a 
screening assay. Further analyses were conducted for the strongest inhibitors at 
physiologically relevant concentrations. Control experiments were conducted to 
determine the effects of the ethanol on UGT2B17.
RESULTS: Over the concentration range of 2 to 8%, the red wine sample inhibited 
the glucuronidation of testosterone by up to 70% over 2 hours. The ethanol 
content had no significant effect. Three red wine phenolics, identified by HPLC 
analyses, also inhibited the enzyme by varying amounts in the order of quercetin 
(72%), caffeic acid (22%) and gallic acid (9%); using a ratio of 
phenolic:testosterone of 1:2.5. In contrast p-coumaric acid and chlorogenic acid 
had no effect on the UGT2B17. The most active phenolic was selected for a 
detailed study at physiologically relevant concentrations, and quercetin 
maintained inhibitory activity of 20% at 2 μM despite a ten-fold excess of 
testosterone.
CONCLUSION: This study reports that in an in vitro supersome-based assay, the 
key steroid-metabolizing enzyme UGT2B17 is inhibited by a number of phenolic 
dietary substances and therefore may reduce the rate of testosterone 
glucuronidation in vivo. These results highlight the potential interactions of a 
number of common dietary compounds on testosterone metabolism. Considering the 
variety of foodstuffs that contain flavonoids, it is feasible that diet can 
elevate levels of circulating testosterone through reduction in urinary 
excretion. These results warrant further investigation and extension to a human 
trial to delineate the health implications.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2891-11-67
PMCID: PMC3495706
PMID: 22958586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Arch Public Health. 2012 Mar 30;70(1):6. doi: 10.1186/0778-7367-70-6.

Infant mortality in the Flemish Region of Belgium 1999-2008: a time-to-event 
analysis.

Pelfrene E(1), Cloots H, Hendrickx E.

Author information:
(1)Studiedienst van de Vlaamse Regering (SVR) [Study Centre of the Government of 
Flanders], Vlaamse overheid [Flemish authorities], Boudewijnlaan, 30, 1000 
Brussels, Belgium. Edwin.pelfrene@dar.vlaanderen.be.

BACKGROUND: When calculating life expectancy, it is usually assumed that deaths 
are uniformly distributed within each of the age intervals. As most of the 
infant deaths are neonatal deaths, this calls for a better assessment for that 
age group.
METHODS: The Flemish unified death and birth certificates database for all 
calendar years between 1999 and 2008 was used. A Kaplan-Meier survival analysis 
on a yearly basis was performed to assess the mean time-to-event and to compare 
survival curves between both genders.
RESULTS: Over the last years, a slight though not steady decrease of the infant 
mortality rate is observed. In 2008, the probability among live births of dying 
before their first anniversary is 4.6‰ in boys and 3.5‰ in girls. The large 
majority (about 85%) of these have died in their year of birth. The mean 
survival time of deaths in their year of birth was found to centre around 1 
month (about 30 days), which results in a 'mean proportion of the calendar year 
lived' (k1) close to 0.09. Among those who died in the year after their year of 
birth yet before their first anniversary, no such concentration in time of the 
deaths is observed. Differences between the gender groups are small and 
generally not statistically significant.
CONCLUSION: Statistics Belgium, the federal statistics office, imputes a value 
for k1 equal to 0.1 for infant deaths in their year of birth when calculating 
life expectancy. Our data fully support this value. We think such refinement is 
generally feasible in calculating life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1186/0778-7367-70-6
PMCID: PMC3436645
PMID: 22958649


145. Eur Urol. 2013 Mar;63(3):486-92. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2012.08.062. Epub
2012  Sep 5.

Long-term oncologic outcomes after radiofrequency ablation for T1 renal cell 
carcinoma.

Psutka SP(1), Feldman AS, McDougal WS, McGovern FJ, Mueller P, Gervais DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2013 Mar;63(3):493-5.
    J Urol. 2013 Oct;190(4):1205-6.

BACKGROUND: Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) is used 
to obtain local control of small renal masses. However, available long-term 
oncologic outcomes for RFA of RCC are limited by small numbers, short follow-up, 
and lack of pathologic diagnoses.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the oncologic effectiveness of RFA for the treatment of 
biopsy-proven RCC.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Exclusion criteria included prior RCC or 
metastatic RCC, familial syndromes, or T2 RCC. We retrospectively reviewed 
long-term oncologic outcomes for 185 patients with sporadic T1 RCC. Median 
follow-up was 6.43 yr (interquartile range [IQR]: 5.3-7.7).
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: The chi-square test and Wilcoxon 
rank-sum tests were used to compare proportions and medians, respectively. 
Disease-specific survival and overall survival (OS) were calculated using 
Kaplan-Meier analysis, then stratified by tumor stage, and comparisons were made 
using log-rank analysis. The 5-yr disease-free survival (DFS) and OS rates are 
reported. A p value <0.05 was considered statistically significant.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Median tumor size was 3 cm (IQR: 2.1-3.9 cm). Tumor 
stage was T1a: 143 (77.3%) or T1b: 42 (22.7%). Twenty-four patients (13%) were 
retreated for residual disease. There were 12 local recurrences (6.5%), 6 
recurrences in T1a disease (4.2%) and 6 in T1b disease (14.3%) (p=0.0196). 
Median time to recurrence was 2.5 yr. Local salvage RFA was performed in six 
patients, of whom five remain disease free at 3.8-yr median follow-up. Tumor 
stage was the only significant predictor of DFS on multivariate analysis. At 
last follow-up, 164 patients (88.6%) were disease free (T1a: n=132 [92.3%]; T1b: 
n=32 [76.2%]; p=0.0038). OS was similar regardless of stage (p=0.06). Five 
patients developed metachronous renal tumors (2.7%). Four patients developed 
extrarenal metastases (2.2%), three of whom died of metastatic RCC (1.6%).
CONCLUSIONS: In poor surgical candidates, RFA results in durable local control 
and low risk of recurrence in T1a RCC. Higher stage correlates with a decreased 
disease-free survival. Long-term surveillance is necessary following RFA. 
Patient selection based on tumor characteristics, comorbid disease, and life 
expectancy is of paramount importance.

Copyright © 2012 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2012.08.062
PMID: 22959191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Hamostaseologie. 2012;32 Suppl 1:S43-4.

Long-term outcome of an unusual haemophilic pseudotumour.

Serban M(1), Mihailov D, Savescu D, Bordos D, Talpos Niculescu S, Jinca C, 
Lăcătuşu A, Siebeck M, Schramm W.

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine and Pharmacy Victor Babes, Timisoara, Romania. 
mserban@spitalcopiitm.ro

Haemophilia, a lifelong congenital bleeding disease, is a highly demanding 
disorder, due to the costs of its replacement therapy. In the absence of this 
pivotal treatment, life expectancy and quality of life are deleteriously 
affected. As illustration, we present a 14 years long follow-up of a patient 
with severe haemophilia A, treated sporadically with fresh plasma, 
cryoprecipitate and factor concentrates, who developed a giant iliopsoas 
pseudotumor. Since he was an infant, under on demand therapy with fresh frozen 
plasma, cryoprecipitate and low doses of factor concentrates he presented many 
spontaneous bleedings, developing multiple disabling arthropathies. At the age 
of 14 years, an iliopsoas hematoma occurred, which relapsed several times, 
developing an iliopsoas pseudotumour. After 5 years, sepsis with Klebsiella was 
diagnosed. A CT scan revealed fistula between the pseudotumor and the gut. Under 
antibiotics, the evolution of sepsis improved, but over a period of 10 months 5 
episodes of haematemesis and melena, followed by one episode of macroscopic 
haematuria occurred; two months later he developed an inguino-crural mass, which 
fistulized through the abdominal wall. A mixt german-romanian team solved the 
clinical concern. After 108 hospitalization days and consumption of 104840 IU 
factor VIII he left the clinic in good condition. One year later, the temporary 
colostomy with anus praeter was closed. The follow-up reveals now, after almost 
10 years with favourable outcome, that the patient is well, active within his 
family and profession.

PMID: 22960649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Int J Public Health. 2013 Jun;58(3):367-76. doi: 10.1007/s00038-012-0407-4.
Epub  2012 Sep 8.

Measuring and valuing quality of life for public health research: application of 
the ICECAP-O capability index in the Australian general population.

Couzner L(1), Ratcliffe J, Lester L, Flynn T, Crotty M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation and Aged Care, Repatriation General Hospital, 
Daws Rd Daw Park, Adelaide, SA, 5041, Australia. leah.couzner@flinders.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: To assess the applicability of the newly developed ICECAP-O 
capability index in the measurement and valuation of quality of life in a large 
community based sample of the Australian general population. With origins in 
Sen's capability theory, the ICECAP-O may more fully encapsulate the 
multi-dimensional outcomes of public health policies and interventions than 
traditional health economic constructs.
METHODS: 2,937 Australian residents participated in face-to-face interviews. The 
relationships between ICECAP-O scores according to age groups (<65 or >65 years) 
and socio-economic status were investigated using descriptive statistics and 
multivariable linear regression models.
RESULTS: Lower income levels and being unemployed or physically unable to work 
were negatively associated with capability for both age groups. Capability was 
strongly and positively associated with marriage and cohabitation in the younger 
age group, whilst being Australian-born was a positive indicator for the older 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: The results provide insights into the assessment of capability in 
the Australian general population. The ICECAP-O shows promise for application in 
the measurement and valuation of quality of life in general population surveys, 
and incorporation into economic evaluations of public health interventions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-012-0407-4
PMID: 22960863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Oct;14(5):789-97. doi: 10.1007/s10198-012-0424-5.
Epub  2012 Sep 9.

The cost-effectiveness of smoking cessation support delivered by mobile phone 
text messaging: Txt2stop.

Guerriero C(1), Cairns J, Roberts I, Rodgers A, Whittaker R, Free C.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK. Carla.Guerriero@lshtm.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The txt2stop trial has shown that mobile-phone-based smoking 
cessation support doubles biochemically validated quitting at 6 months. This 
study examines the cost-effectiveness of smoking cessation support delivered by 
mobile phone text messaging.
METHODS: The lifetime incremental costs and benefits of adding text-based 
support to current practice are estimated from a UK NHS perspective using a 
Markov model. The cost-effectiveness was measured in terms of cost per quitter, 
cost per life year gained and cost per QALY gained. As in previous studies, 
smokers are assumed to face a higher risk of experiencing the following five 
diseases: lung cancer, stroke, myocardial infarction, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, and coronary heart disease (i.e. the main fatal or disabling, 
but by no means the only, adverse effects of prolonged smoking). The treatment 
costs and health state values associated with these diseases were identified 
from the literature. The analysis was based on the age and gender distribution 
observed in the txt2stop trial. Effectiveness and cost parameters were varied in 
deterministic sensitivity analyses, and a probabilistic sensitivity analysis was 
also performed.
FINDINGS: The cost of text-based support per 1,000 enrolled smokers is £16,120, 
which, given an estimated 58 additional quitters at 6 months, equates to £278 
per quitter. However, when the future NHS costs saved (as a result of reduced 
smoking) are included, text-based support would be cost saving. It is estimated 
that 18 LYs are gained per 1,000 smokers (0.3 LYs per quitter) receiving 
text-based support, and 29 QALYs are gained (0.5 QALYs per quitter). The 
deterministic sensitivity analysis indicated that changes in individual model 
parameters did not alter the conclusion that this is a cost-effective 
intervention. Similarly, the probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated a >90 
% chance that the intervention will be cost saving.
INTERPRETATION: This study shows that under a wide variety of conditions, 
personalised smoking cessation advice and support by mobile phone message is 
both beneficial for health and cost saving to a health system.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-012-0424-5
PMCID: PMC3751449
PMID: 22961230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Bull Cancer. 2012 Sep;99(9):851-63. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2012.1624.

[Central nervous system complications in patients undergoing cytotoxic 
chemotherapy and targeted therapies].

[Article in French]

Psimaras D(1), Bompaire F, Taillia H, Ricard D, Taillibert S.

Author information:
(1)Hôpital Pitié-Salpêtrière, service de neurologie Mazarin, Paris, France.

Anti-cancer treatments (cytotoxic chemotherapies, targeted therapies and 
hormonotherapies) are known to induce early and delayed neurological toxicities. 
Acute encephalopathies and posterior reversible encephalopathies are better 
known and described, physiopathological hypotheses are emerging. It is difficult 
to discriminate what drug is causing the symptoms in patients treated with 
multiple cytotoxic drugs. Methotrexate and ifosfamide are responsible for acute 
encephalopathies. L-asparaginase and methotrexate or targeted therapies may 
induce cerebrovascular complications. As life expectancy increases and more 
complex regimen including innovative targeted therapies are developed, new 
toxicity profiles can be expected. To be able to provide an early diagnosis, 
prevention, and treatment (when existing) of these pathologies remains a 
tremendous challenge that would allow a good quality of life with social and 
professional life after their cancer is cured.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2012.1624
PMID: 22961349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):722-8. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100422.
Epub  2012 Sep 8.

Sexual dimorphism and human enhancement.

Casal P.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):729-31.
    J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):732-5.
    J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):736-40.
    J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):741-2.

Robert Sparrow argues that because of women's longer life expectancy 
philosophers who advocate the genetic modification of human beings to enhance 
welfare rather than merely supply therapy are committed to favouring the 
selection of only female embryos, an implication he deems sufficiently 
implausible to discredit their position. If Sparrow's argument succeeds, then 
philosophers who advocate biomedical moral enhancement also seem vulnerable to a 
similar charge because of men's greater propensity for various forms of harmful 
wrongdoing. This paper argues there are various flaws in Sparrow's argument that 
render it unsuccessful. The paper also examines whether dimorphism reduction is 
a more desirable outcome than male elimination, thereby further illustrating the 
difficulties besetting the distinction between therapy and enhancement.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2011-100422
PMID: 22962068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. PLoS One. 2012;7(9):e44103. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0044103. Epub 2012 Sep
4.

The impact of infection on population health: results of the Ontario burden of 
infectious diseases study.

Kwong JC(1), Ratnasingham S, Campitelli MA, Daneman N, Deeks SL, Manuel DG, 
Allen VG, Bayoumi AM, Fazil A, Fisman DN, Gershon AS, Gournis E, Heathcote EJ, 
Jamieson FB, Jha P, Khan KM, Majowicz SE, Mazzulli T, McGeer AJ, Muller MP, Raut 
A, Rea E, Remis RS, Shahin R, Wright AJ, Zagorski B, Crowcroft NS.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Canada. 
jeff.kwong@utoronto.ca

BACKGROUND: Evidence-based priority setting is increasingly important for 
rationally distributing scarce health resources and for guiding future health 
research. We sought to quantify the contribution of a wide range of infectious 
diseases to the overall infectious disease burden in a high-income setting.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We used health-adjusted life years (HALYs), a 
composite measure comprising premature mortality and reduced functioning due to 
disease, to estimate the burden of 51 infectious diseases and associated 
syndromes in Ontario using 2005-2007 data. Deaths were estimated from vital 
statistics data and disease incidence was estimated from reportable disease, 
healthcare utilization, and cancer registry data, supplemented by local modeling 
studies and national and international epidemiologic studies. The 51 infectious 
agents and associated syndromes accounted for 729 lost HALYs, 44.2 deaths, and 
58,987 incident cases per 100,000 population annually. The most burdensome 
infectious agents were: hepatitis C virus, Streptococcus pneumoniae, Escherichia 
coli, human papillomavirus, hepatitis B virus, human immunodeficiency virus, 
Staphylococcus aureus, influenza virus, Clostridium difficile, and rhinovirus. 
The top five, ten, and 20 pathogens accounted for 46%, 67%, and 75% of the total 
infectious disease burden, respectively. Marked sex-specific differences in 
disease burden were observed for some pathogens. The main limitations of this 
study were the exclusion of certain infectious diseases due to data availability 
issues, not considering the impact of co-infections and co-morbidity, and the 
inability to assess the burden of milder infections that do not result in 
healthcare utilization.
CONCLUSIONS/SIGNIFICANCE: Infectious diseases continue to cause a substantial 
health burden in high-income settings such as Ontario. Most of this burden is 
attributable to a relatively small number of infectious agents, for which many 
effective interventions have been previously identified. Therefore, these 
findings should be used to guide public health policy, planning, and research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0044103
PMCID: PMC3433488
PMID: 22962601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have read the 
journal's policy and the following authors wish to report these potential 
conflicts. DNF has previously received research funding and/or served as a 
consultant to Novartis, Sanofi-Pasteur, and GlaxoSmithKline on issues related to 
vaccination. AJM has received research honoraria from Gilead Biosciences, 
Hoffman-Laroche, GlaxoSmithKline, Pfizer, Merck, Sanofi-Pasteur, and Wyeth. This 
does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLoS ONE policies on sharing 
data and materials. The remaining authors declare that they have no conflict of 
interest.


152. Am Fam Physician. 2012 Aug 1;86(3):259-64.

Managing grief and depression at the end of life.

Widera EW(1), Block SD.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA. eric.widera@ucsf.edu

Comment in
    Am Fam Physician. 2012 Aug 1;86(3):232, 234.

Summary for patients in
    Am Fam Physician. 2012 Aug 1;86(3):3.

Psychological distress is common in terminally ill persons and can be a source 
of great suffering. Grief is an adaptive, universal, and highly personalized 
response to the multiple losses that occur at the end of life. This response may 
be intense early on after a loss manifesting itself physically, emotionally, 
cognitively, behaviorally, and spiritually; however, the impact of grief on 
daily life generally decreases with time. Although pharmacologic interventions 
are not warranted for uncomplicated grief, physicians are encouraged to support 
patients by acknowledging their grief and encouraging the open expression of 
emotions. It is important for the physician to distinguish uncomplicated grief 
reactions from more disabling psychiatric disorders such as major depression. 
The symptoms of grief may overlap with those of major depression or a terminal 
illness or its treatment; however, grief is a distinct entity. Feelings of 
pervasive hopelessness, helplessness, worthlessness, guilt, lack of pleasure, 
and suicidal ideation are present in patients with depression, but not in those 
experiencing grief. Psychotherapy and antidepressant medications reduce symptoms 
of distress and improve quality of life for patients with depression. Physicians 
may consider psychostimulants, such as methylphenidate, for patients who have 
depression with a life expectancy of only days to weeks.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Family Physicians.

PMID: 22962989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. J Insect Sci. 2012;12:7. doi: 10.1673/031.012.0701.

Potential of the predatory mite, Amblyseius swirskii to suppress the broad mite, 
Polyphagotarsonemus latus on the gboma eggplant, Solanum macrocarpon.

Onzo A(1), Houedokoho AF, Hanna R.

Author information:
(1)International Institute of Tropical Agriculture, 08 B.P. 0932, Cotonou, 
Benin, West Africa. a.onzo@cgiar.org

In Benin, the tarsonemid mite Polyphagotarsonemus latus (Banks) (Prostigmata: 
Tarsonemidae) is a key pest of gboma eggplant Solanum macrocarpon (L.) 
(Solanales: Solanaceae), a leafy vegetable on which it causes considerable 
damage to the plants and substantial reduction in yield. Predatory mites in the 
family Phytoseiidae have been successfully used in the biological control of 
numerous agricultural pests worldwide. In that respect, a population of the 
phytoseiid mite Amblyseius swirskii (Athias-Henriot) (Mesostigmata: 
Phytoseiidae) has been identified as a potential predator of P. latus, and is 
now a candidate for release against this pest in Benin. The objective of the 
present study is to determine, through laboratory experiments, the predation 
rate and life table parameters of A. swirskii when feeding on P. latus or 
alternative food such as maize pollen. Under laboratory conditions the mean 
number of P. latus consumed by A. swirskii, and daily oviposition, significantly 
increased as the number of prey increased. Total development time of A. swirskii 
was significantly shorter when it fed on P. latus than on maize pollen. Net 
reproduction rate, intrinsic rate of increase, mean generation time and the 
finite rate of increase of A. swirskii were were all significantly lower on P. 
latus than on maize pollen. However, doubling time was significantly higher on 
maize pollen. This study shows that A. swirskii is a good predator of P. latus, 
and that maize pollen can efficiently sustain A. swirskii populations when P. 
latus densities on plants become low. Consequently, A. swirskii can be used for 
the biological control of the broad mite P. latus on gboma eggplant, and on 
other solanaceous crops in Benin and elsewhere.

DOI: 10.1673/031.012.0701
PMCID: PMC3465922
PMID: 22962997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. BMC Health Serv Res. 2012 Sep 10;12:310. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-12-310.

Amenable mortality as a performance indicator of Italian health-care services.

Fantini MP(1), Lenzi J, Franchino G, Raineri C, Burgio A, Frova L, Domenighetti 
G, Ricciardi W, Damiani G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Public Health, Alma Mater Studiorum, University of 
Bologna, Bologna, 40126, Italy. mariapia.fantini@unibo.it

BACKGROUND: Mortality amenable to health-care services ('amenable mortality') 
