ground beetle Carabus (Chaetocarabus) lefebvrei (Coleoptera, Carabidae).

Giglio A(1), Giulianini PG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Ecology and Earth Sciences, University of Calabria, 
Via P. Bucci, I-87036 Arcavacata di Rende, Italy. anita.giglio@unical.it

In ecological immunology is of great importance the study of the immune defense 
plasticity as response to a variable environment. In holometabolous insects the 
fitness of each developmental stage depends on the capacity to mount a response 
(i.e. physiological, behavioral) under environmental pressure. The immune 
response is a highly dynamic trait closely related to the ecology of organism 
and the variation in the expression of an immune system component may affect 
another fitness relevant trait of organism (i.e. growth, reproduction). The 
present research quantified immune function (total and differential number of 
hemocytes, phagocytosis in vivo and activity of phenoloxidase) in the pupal 
stage of Carabus (Chaetocarabus) lefebvrei. Moreover, the cellular and humoral 
immune function was compared across the larval, pupal and adult stages to 
evaluate the changes in immunocompetence across the developmental stages. Four 
types of circulating hemocytes were characterized via transmission electron 
microscopy in the pupal stage: prohemocytes, plasmatocytes, granulocytes and 
oenocytoids. The artificial non-self-challenge treatments performed in vivo have 
shown that plasmatocytes and granulocytes are responsible for phagocytosis. The 
level of active phenoloxidase increases with the degree of pigmentation of the 
cuticle in each stage. In C. lefebvrei, there are different strategies in term 
of immune response to enhance the fitness of each life stage. The results have 
shown that the variation in speed and specificity of immune function across the 
developmental stages is correlated with differences in infection risk, life 
expectancy and biological function of the life cycle.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jinsphys.2013.01.011
PMID: 23384937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. N Z Med J. 2012 Jan 25;126(1368):93-6.

Expert ranking of tobacco control interventions for health economic modelling 
research in New Zealand.

Wilson N, van der Deen FS, Pearson AL, Cobiac L, Blakely T.

PMID: 23385843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2013 May;67(5):412-8. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2012-201525. Epub 2013 Feb 5.

Are health inequalities really not the smallest in the Nordic welfare states? A 
comparison of mortality inequality in 37 countries.

Popham F(1), Dibben C, Bambra C.

Author information:
(1)MRC/CSO Social and Public Health Sciences Unit, 4 Lilybank Gardens, Glasgow, 
UK. f.popham@sphsu.mrc.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Research comparing mortality by socioeconomic status has found that 
inequalities are not the smallest in the Nordic countries. This is in contrast 
to expectations given these countries' policy focus on equity. An alternative 
way of studying inequality has been little used to compare inequalities across 
welfare states and may yield a different conclusion.
METHODS: We used average life expectancy lost per death as a measure of total 
inequality in mortality derived from death rates from the Human Mortality 
Database for 37 countries in 2006 that we grouped by welfare state type. We 
constructed a theoretical 'lowest mortality comparator country' to study, by 
age, why countries were not achieving the smallest inequality and the highest 
life expectancy. We also studied life expectancy as there is an important 
correlation between it and inequality.
RESULTS: On average, Nordic countries had the highest life expectancy and 
smallest inequalities for men but not women. For both men and women, Nordic 
countries had particularly low younger age mortality contributing to smaller 
inequality and higher life expectancy. Although older age mortality in the 
Nordic countries is not the smallest. There was variation within Nordic 
countries with Sweden, Iceland and Norway having higher life expectancy and 
smaller inequalities than Denmark and Finland (for men).
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis suggests that the Nordic countries do have the 
smallest inequalities in mortality for men and for younger age groups. However, 
this is not the case for women. Reducing premature mortality among older age 
groups would increase life expectancy and reduce inequality further in Nordic 
countries.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2012-201525
PMCID: PMC3607094
PMID: 23386671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2013;8:79-87. doi: 10.2147/COPD.S37486.
Epub  2013 Jan 30.

Cost-effectiveness of roflumilast in combination with bronchodilator therapies 
in patients with severe and very severe COPD in Switzerland.

Samyshkin Y(1), Schlunegger M, Haefliger S, Ledderhose S, Radford M.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Health Economics and Outcomes Research, London, United Kingdom. 
ysamyshkin@uk.imshealth.com

OBJECTIVE: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) represents a burden on 
patients and health systems. Roflumilast, an oral, selective 
phosphodiesterase-4-inhibitor reduces exacerbations and improves lung function 
in severe/very severe COPD patients with a history of exacerbations. This study 
aimed to estimate the lifetime cost and outcomes of roflumilast added-on to 
commonly used COPD regimens in Switzerland.
METHODS: A Markov cohort model was developed to simulate COPD progression in 
patients with disease states of severe, very severe COPD, and death. The 
exacerbation rate was assumed to be two per year in severe COPD. COPD 
progression rates were drawn from the published literature. Efficacy was 
expressed as relative ratios of exacerbation rates associated with roflumilast, 
derived from a mixed-treatment comparison. A cost-effectiveness analysis was 
conducted for roflumilast added to long-acting muscarinic antagonists (LAMA), 
long-acting β2-agonist/ inhaled corticosteroids (LABA/ICS), and LAMA + LABA/ICS. 
The analysis was conducted from the Swiss payer perspective, with costs and 
outcomes discounted at 2.5% annually. Parameter uncertainties were explored in 
one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In each of the comparator regimens mean life expectancy was 9.28 years 
and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained were 6.19. Mean estimated 
lifetime costs per patient in the comparator arms were CHF 83,364 (LAMA), CHF 
88,161 (LABA/ICS), and CHF 95,564 (LAMA + LABA/ICS) respectively. Adding 
roflumilast resulted in a mean cost per patient per lifetime of CHF 86,754 (LAMA 
+ roflumilast), CHF 91,470 (LABA/ICS + roflumilast), and CHF 99,364 (LAMA + 
LABA/ICS + roflumilast), respectively. Life-expectancy and quality-adjusted 
life-expectancy were 9.63 years and 6.47 QALYs (LAMA + roflumilast), 9.64 years 
and 6.48 QALYs (LABA/ICS + roflumilast), and 9.63 years and 6.47 QALYs (LAMA + 
LABA/ ICS + roflumilast). Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were CHF 12,313, 
CHF 11,456, and CHF 13,671 per QALY when roflumilast was added to the three 
regimens.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with roflumilast is estimated to reduce the health and 
economic burden of COPD exacerbations and represent a cost-effective treatment 
option for patients with frequent exacerbations in Switzerland.

DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S37486
PMCID: PMC3563314
PMID: 23386787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Ann N Y Acad Sci. 2013 Apr;1283:1-7. doi: 10.1111/nyas.12035. Epub 2013 Feb
6.

Immunology and world health: key contributions from the global community.

Nossal GJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia. gnossal@bigpond.net.au

The contributions of immunology to world health must be seen in the context of 
the severe disadvantage prevailing in many countries. Low life expectancy, high 
infant and maternal mortality rates, and continued prevalence of infections as 
causes of preventable deaths highlight what vaccines can do to improve the 
situation. This paper will briefly review some major new international health 
programs, including the GAVI Alliance; the Global Polio Eradication Initiative; 
the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria; the President's 
Emergency Plan for AIDS Relief; and the Global Malaria Action Plan. It will also 
outline the state of research progress for vaccines that are not yet licensed 
but that, in many cases, appear within reach. Of course, vaccines are not the 
be-all and the end-all of global health, so brief reference will be made to 
nutrition, vector biology and control, and the emergence of noncommunicable 
diseases as threats.

© 2013 New York Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/nyas.12035
PMID: 23387415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Mol Microbiol. 2013 Mar;87(5):1074-87. doi: 10.1111/mmi.12150. Epub 2013 Feb
6.

Colocalization and interaction between elongasome and divisome during a 
preparative cell division phase in Escherichia coli.

van der Ploeg R(1), Verheul J, Vischer NO, Alexeeva S, Hoogendoorn E, Postma M, 
Banzhaf M, Vollmer W, den Blaauwen T.

Author information:
(1)Bacterial Cell Biology, Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, University of 
Amsterdam, Science Park 904, 1098 XH Amsterdam, P.O. Box 94232, 1090 GE 
Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

The rod-shaped bacterium Escherichia coli grows by insertion of peptidoglycan 
into the lateral wall during cell elongation and synthesis of new poles during 
cell division. The monofunctional transpeptidases PBP2 and PBP3 are part of 
specialized protein complexes called elongasome and divisome, respectively, 
which catalyse peptidoglycan extension and maturation. Endogenous immunolabelled 
PBP2 localized in the cylindrical part of the cell as well as transiently at 
midcell. Using the novel image analysis tool Coli-Inspector to analyse protein 
localization as function of the bacterial cell age, we compared PBP2 
localization with that of other E. coli cell elongation and division proteins 
including PBP3. Interestingly, the midcell localization of the two 
transpeptidases overlaps in time during the early period of divisome maturation. 
Försters Resonance Energy Transfer (FRET) experiments revealed an interaction 
between PBP2 and PBP3 when both are present at midcell. A decrease in the 
midcell diameter is visible after 40% of the division cycle indicating that the 
onset of new cell pole synthesis starts much earlier than previously identified 
by visual inspection. The data support a new model of the division cycle in 
which the elongasome and divisome interact to prepare for cell division.

© 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mmi.12150
PMID: 23387922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2013;157(6):A5330.

[New insights into the support of children with Down syndrome].

[Article in Dutch]

Weijerman M(1), Broers CJ, van der Plas RN.

Author information:
(1)Rijnland ziekenhuis, afd. Kindergeneeskunde, Leiderdorp, the Netherlands. 
m.weijerman@rijnland.nl

The prevalence of Down syndrome (DS) in the Netherlands is 14/10,000 live 
births; this is almost 1.5 times higher than during the 1980s and 90 s. In the 
Netherlands the uptake of prenatal screening is lower than in the rest of Europe 
and the percentage of pregnant women > 36 years has increased. The early 
diagnosis and treatment of congenital heart abnormalities means that mortality 
among DS children has fallen. Although their life expectancy has increased 
greatly, other comorbidities have come to the fore. Wheezing is reported in 1/3 
of the children with DS; it seems unrelated to asthma and atopy. The percentage 
of mothers who start breastfeeding a child with Down syndrome is low (48%), 
despite the preventive effect on celiac disease and infections and its 
therapeutic value for speech and language development. Children with DS score 
lower on quality of life for the domains of lung and stomach problems, motor 
function and communication. Medical support and screening addressing specific 
comorbidities (heart, thyroid, lungs, hearing, vision) and special support for 
cognitive, motor and speech development in children with Down syndrome is 
worthwhile.

PMID: 23388138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Am J Clin Oncol. 2014 Oct;37(5):480-5. doi: 10.1097/COC.0b013e31827e4e9a.

Markov model and cost-effectiveness analysis of bevacizumab in HER2-negative 
metastatic breast cancer.

Refaat T(1), Choi M, Gaber G, Kiel K, Mehta M, Gradishar W, Small W Jr.

Author information:
(1)Departments of *Radiation Oncology ∥Medicine-Hematology/Oncology, Robert H. 
Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, Northwestern University, Feinberg School of 
Medicine §Department of Radiation Oncology, Rush University Medical Center, 
Chicago, IL †Department of Clinical Oncology ‡Clinical Research Center, Faculty 
of Medicine, Alexandria University, Alexandria, Egypt.

PURPOSE: Metastatic breast cancer (MBC) remains an incurable disease despite 
advances in treatment modalities. In 2008, the FDA approved bevacizumab with 
paclitaxel for the initial treatment of HER2-negative MBC. The approval was then 
officially revoked by the FDA in November 2011. However, both the European 
Medicines Agency and NCCN still endorse bevacizumab for this indication. One of 
the greatest challenges facing health care worldwide is reconciling incremental 
clinical benefits with exponentially rising costs. This study aimed to assess 
the cost-effectiveness of bevacizumab with paclitaxel for HER2-negative MBC.
METHODS: A Markov decision tree using Data 3.5 (TreeAge Software Inc.) was 
created for decision and cost-effectiveness analyses of using bevacizumab plus 
paclitaxel versus paclitaxel alone as first-line chemotherapy in HER2-negative 
MBC using efficacy and toxicity data from the E2100 study. The model was 
designed from the patient and payer perspectives and sensitivity analyses were 
run.
RESULTS: The marginal cost between paclitaxel alone versus bevacizumab and 
paclitaxel was 86k with a marginal efficacy of 0.369 quality-adjusted life-years 
and marginal cost effectiveness of 232,720.72 USD. The expected outcome value 
was 1.86 for bevacizumab and paclitaxel and 1.67 for paclitaxel alone. The 
combination was not cost effective and only a marginal survival advantage was 
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates that, despite a significant 
progression-free survival advantage, the addition of bevacizumab to paclitaxel 
is not cost effective for the cohort of patients with HER2-negative MBC included 
in our analysis. Such data could be informative to policymakers who consider the 
health economics and incremental cost-effectiveness of medical therapies.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0b013e31827e4e9a
PMID: 23388565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Planta. 2013 May;237(5):1359-66. doi: 10.1007/s00425-013-1851-y. Epub 2013
Feb  7.

Prolonging the hydration and active metabolism from light periods into nights 
substantially enhances lichen growth.

Bidussi M(1), Gauslaa Y, Solhaug KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Natural Resource Management, Norwegian University 
of Life Sciences, PO Box 5003, 1432, Ås, Norway. massimo.bidussi@umb.no

This study investigates how hydration during light and dark periods influences 
growth in two epiphytic old forest lichens, the green algal Lobaria pulmonaria 
and the cyanobacterial L. scrobiculata. The lichens were cultivated in growth 
chambers for 14 days (200 μmol m(-1) s(-2); 12 h photoperiod) at four 
temperature regimes (25/20 °C, 21/16 °C, 13/8 °C, and 6/1 °C; day/night 
temperatures) and two hydration regimes (12 h day-time hydration; 
12 h day-time + 12 h night-time hydration). Growth was highly dynamic, showing 
that short-term growth experiments in growth cabinets have a high, but largely 
unexplored potential in functional lichen studies. The highest measured growth 
rates were not far from the maximal dry matter gain estimated from published net 
photosynthetic CO2 uptake data. For the entire data set, photobiont type, 
temperature, hydration regime and specific thallus mass accounted for 46.6 % of 
the variation in relative growth rate (RGR). Both species showed substantially 
higher relative growth rates based on both biomass (RGR) and thallus area 
(RTAGR) when they were hydrated day and night compared to hydration in light 
only. Chronic photoinhibition was substantial in thalli hydrated only during the 
day time and kept at the highest and lowest temperature regimes, resulting in 
exponential increases in RGR with increasing maximal PSII efficiency (F v/F m) 
in both species. However, the depression in F v/F m was stronger for the 
cyanolichen than for the cephalolichen at extreme temperatures. The 
growth-stimulating effect of night-time hydration suggests that nocturnal 
metabolic activity improves recovery of photoinhibition and/or enhances the 
conversion rate of photosynthates into thallus extension.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-013-1851-y
PMID: 23389675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Hepatology. 2013 Jul;58(1):54-64. doi: 10.1002/hep.26304. Epub 2013 May 27.

The impact of timing and prioritization on the cost-effectiveness of birth 
cohort testing and treatment for hepatitis C virus in the United States.

McEwan P(1), Ward T, Yuan Y, Kim R, L'italien G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Swansea University, Wales, UK; Health Economics 
& Outcomes Research Ltd., Wales, UK. p.c.mcewan@swansea.ac.uk

Recent United States guidelines recommend one-time birth cohort testing for 
hepatitis C infection in persons born between 1945 and 1965; this represents a 
major public health policy undertaking. The purpose of this study was to assess 
the role of treatment timing and prioritization on predicted cost-effectiveness. 
The MONARCH hepatitis C lifetime simulation model was used in conjunction with a 
testing and treatment decision tree to estimate the cost-effectiveness of birth 
cohort versus risk-based testing incorporating information on age, fibrosis 
stage and treatment timing. The study used a 1945-1965 birth cohort and included 
disease progression, testing and treatment-related parameters. Scenario analysis 
was used to evaluate the impact of hepatitis C virus (HCV) prevalence, treatment 
eligibility, age, fibrosis stage and timing of treatment initiation on total 
costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), HCV-related complications and 
cost-effectiveness. The cost-effectiveness of birth cohort versus risk-based 
testing was $28,602. Assuming 91% of the population is tested, at least 278,000 
people need to be treated for birth cohort testing to maintain 
cost-effectiveness. Prioritizing treatment toward those with more advanced 
fibrosis is associated with a decrease in total cost of $7.5 billion and 59,035 
fewer HCV-related complications. Total QALYs and complications avoided are 
maximized when treatment initiation occurs as soon as possible after testing.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms that birth cohort testing is, on average, 
cost-effective. However, this remains true only when enough tested and 
HCV-positive subjects are treated to generate sufficient cost offsets and QALY 
gains. Given the practical and financial challenges associated with implementing 
birth cohort testing, the greatest return on investment is obtained when 
eligible patients are treated immediately and those with more advanced disease 
are prioritized.

Copyright © 2013 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26304
PMID: 23389841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Endocrinology. 2013 Mar;154(3):1373-83. doi: 10.1210/en.2012-2010. Epub 2013
Feb  6.

Carbohydrate-mediated polyethylene glycol conjugation of TSH improves its 
pharmacological properties.

Park A(1), Honey DM, Hou L, Bird JJ, Zarazinski C, Searles M, Braithwaite C, 
Kingsbury JS, Kyazike J, Culm-Merdek K, Greene B, Stefano JE, Qiu H, McPherson 
JM, Pan CQ.

Author information:
(1)Genzyme Corp., a Sanofi Company, Framingham, MA 01701, USA. 
anna.park@genzyme.com

Thyrogen (thyrotropin alfa for injection), recombinant human TSH (rhTSH), has 
been successfully used to enhance diagnostic radioiodine scanning and 
thyroglobulin testing in the follow-up of patients with thyroid cancer and as an 
adjunctive treatment for radioiodine thyroid remnant ablation. However, the 
short half-life of rhTSH in the circulation requires a multidose regimen. We 
developed novel sialic acid-mediated and galactose-mediated conjugation 
chemistries for targeting polyethylene glycol (PEG) to the three N-linked 
glycosylation sites on the protein, to prolong plasma half-life by eliminating 
kidney filtration and potential carbohydrate-mediated clearance. Conjugates of 
different PEG sizes and copy numbers were screened for reaction yield, TSH 
receptor binding, and murine phamacokinetics/pharmacodynamics studies. The best 
performing of these products, a 40-kDa mono-PEGylated sialic acid-mediated 
conjugate, exhibited a 3.5-fold longer duration of action than rhTSH in rats, as 
a 5-fold lower affinity was more than compensated by a 23-fold extension of 
circulation half-life. Biochemical characterization confirmed conjugation 
through the sialic acids. Correlation of PEG distribution on the three N-linked 
glycosylation sites and the PEG effect on receptor binding supported the 
previously reported structure-function relationship of rhTSH glycosylation. This 
long-acting rhTSH has the potential to significantly improve patient convenience 
and provider flexibility while reducing potential side effects associated with a 
sudden elevation of serum TSH.

DOI: 10.1210/en.2012-2010
PMID: 23389953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Hum Mol Genet. 2013 May 1;22(9):1843-55. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddt037. Epub 2013
Feb  5.

Development and characterization of an SMN2-based intermediate mouse model of 
Spinal Muscular Atrophy.

Cobb MS(1), Rose FF, Rindt H, Glascock JJ, Shababi M, Miller MR, Osman EY, Yen 
PF, Garcia ML, Martin BR, Wetz MJ, Mazzasette C, Feng Z, Ko CP, Lorson CL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, Life Sciences Center, University of 
Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA

Spinal Muscular Atrophy (SMA) is due to the loss of the survival motor neuron 
gene 1 (SMN1), resulting in motor neuron (MN) degeneration, muscle atrophy and 
loss of motor function. While SMN2 encodes a protein identical to SMN1, a single 
nucleotide difference in exon 7 causes most of the SMN2-derived transcripts to 
be alternatively spliced resulting in a truncated and unstable protein (SMNΔ7). 
SMA patients retain at least one SMN2 copy, making it an important target for 
therapeutics. Many of the existing SMA models are very severe, with animals 
typically living less than 2 weeks. Here, we present a novel intermediate mouse 
model of SMA based upon the human genomic SMN2 gene. Genetically, this model is 
similar to the well-characterized SMNΔ7 model; however, we have manipulated the 
SMNΔ7 transgene to encode a modestly more functional protein referred to as SMN 
read-through (SMN(RT)). By introducing the SMN(RT) transgene onto the background 
of a severe mouse model of SMA (SMN2(+/+);Smn(-/-)), disease severity was 
significantly decreased based upon a battery of phenotypic parameters, including 
MN pathology and a significant extension in survival. Importantly, there is not 
a full phenotypic correction, allowing for the examination of a broad range of 
therapeutics, including SMN2-dependent and SMN-independent pathways. This novel 
animal model serves as an important biological and therapeutic model for less 
severe forms of SMA and provides an in vivo validation of the SMN(RT) protein.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddt037
PMID: 23390132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Clin Interv Aging. 2013;8:97-102. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S39434. Epub 2013 Jan 30.

Cognitive function affects trainability for physical performance in exercise 
intervention among older adults with mild cognitive impairment.

Uemura K(1), Shimada H, Makizako H, Doi T, Yoshida D, Tsutsumimoto K, Anan Y, 
Suzuki T.

Author information:
(1)Section for Health Promotion, Department for Research and Development to 
Support Independent Life of Elderly, Center for Gerontology and Social Science, 
National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Aichi, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Although much evidence supports the hypothesis that cognitive 
function and physical function are interrelated, it is unclear whether cognitive 
decline with mild cognitive impairment influences trainability of physical 
performance in exercise intervention. The purpose of this study was to examine 
the association between cognitive function at baseline and change in physical 
performance after exercise intervention in older adults with mild cognitive 
impairment.
METHODS: Forty-four older adults diagnosed with mild cognitive impairment based 
on the Peterson criteria (mean age 74.8 years) consented to and completed a 
6-month twice weekly exercise intervention. The Timed Up and Go (TUG) test was 
used as a measure of physical performance. The Mini-Mental State Examination 
(MMSE), Trail Making Test Part B, Geriatric Depression Scale, baseline muscle 
strength of knee extension, and attendance rate of intervention, were measured 
as factors for predicting trainability.
RESULTS: In the correlation analysis, the change in TUG showed modest 
correlations with attendance rate in the exercise program (r = -0.354, P = 
0.027) and MMSE at baseline (r = -0.321, P = 0.034). A multiple regression 
analysis revealed that change in TUG was independently associated with 
attendance rate (β = -0.322, P = 0.026) and MMSE score (β = -0.295, P = 0.041), 
controlling for age and gender.
CONCLUSION: General cognitive function was associated with improvements in 
physical performance after exercise intervention in subjects with mild cognitive 
impairment. Further research is needed to examine the effects of exercise 
programs designed to address cognitive obstacles in older adults with mild 
cognitive impairment.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S39434
PMCID: PMC3564456
PMID: 23390362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. J Med Life. 2012 Dec 15;5(4):382-9. Epub 2012 Dec 25.

The cardiovascular risk factors of the Roma (gypsies) people in Central-Eastern 
Europe: a review of the published literature.

Dobranici M(1), Buzea A, Popescu R.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Colentina University Hospital, Bucharest, Romania.

BACKGROUND: Estimated number of the Roma people in central-eastern Europe cannot 
be precisely appreciated, but official data suggest that in the 2004 they were 
approximately 4.2 million. At this time, there are few available data about the 
health status of the Roma people, mostly assessing genetic and infectious 
diseases, which reflect poverty, overcrowding, and lack of education. There is 
even less data regarding non-communicable and chronic diseases, especially 
cardiovascular diseases.
METHODS: We searched the published literature on the cardiovascular risk factors 
in Roma people using PubMed from January 2000 to July 2011. The searching 
criteria were: (1) randomized, prospective observational, retrospective and 
meta-analysis; (2) adult patients with cardiac diseases or cardiovascular risk 
factors (3) data available for cardiovascular patients. Search terms included 
dyslipidemia, obesity, tobacco, hypertension, and diabetes mellitus.
RESULTS: Twenty-five studies were identified. Approximately 75% of them were 
related to just four countries: Slovakia, Croatia, Czech Republic, and Serbia. 
This paper is a review based on existing literature concerning classical risk 
factors in Roma people with emphasis on their ethnical features. Despite limited 
data, the results showed that this ethnicity has the incriminated risk factors 
more frequently than the majority and consequently a higher cardiovascular 
morbidity rate.
CONCLUSIONS: Quantification of the cardiovascular risk factor and their 
implication in the shortening of life expectancy in Roma population was a 
provocation due to a paucity of reliable data. At this time, we should pay more 
attention on the Roma health issues and the cultural concerns that might affect 
them in the context of borderless Europe.

PMCID: PMC3565246
PMID: 23390466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Coll Antropol. 2012 Dec;36(4):1101-8.

Population decline in the central region of Russian Federation (1990-2010).

Grigulevich NI(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Ethnology and Anthropology, Russian Academy of Sciences, Moscow, 
Russia. nadia100@rambler.ru

After the collapse of the Soviet Union in 1991 the mortality reached 1.807.400 
people in 1992, with the birthrate falling to 1.587.600 people. The process of 
depopulation began. Nearly 2 million people died annually in Russia according to 
the official data of the Russian Federal State Statistics Service in 1993-2010. 
A special and a very serious problem is a middle-aged men mortality that is 7-8 
times higher, than in the developed countries. From 1992 to 2010 in Russia died 
40.812.000 people, born - 26.568.000. Total decline amounted to 13.344.000 
people. The present study considers some social-economic and ecological 
processes which promoted the growth of negative indicators in population 
dynamics. We compared the mortality and decline of the population in different 
regions of Russia and showed that there is a correlation between alcohol 
mortality and decrease of population. A confessional factor is very important 
also. The mortality rate is far below the average for the country in those 
territories of Russia, where the population is predominantly Muslim. The 
demographic transition in Russia is characterized not only by a drop in 
fertility, as in the other developed countries, but also by increase in 
mortality. The mortality is a real indicator of the socio-economic and 
demographic situation for this or that region of Russia and it should be used by 
the authorities of different levels in the development of the area.

PMID: 23390798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Coll Antropol. 2012 Dec;36(4):1355-61.

Prognostic factors of local recurrence and survival after curative rectal cancer 
surgery: a single institution experience.

Boras Z(1), Kondza G, Sisljagić V, Busić Z, Gmajnić R, Istvanić T.

Author information:
(1)"J. J. Strossmayer" University, School of Medicine, Department of Surgery, 
Osijek, Croatia. zdenkoboras@gmail.com

The aim of our study is to evaluate the importance of prognostic factors, both 
tumor-related and therapy related, and their impact on local recurrence rate of 
rectal carcinoma. It is also important to evaluate impact of chemoradiotherapy 
(CRT) on local recurrence rate and survival. We used the data of 514 patients 
with rectal carcinoma treated at Clinic of surgery at University Hospital Centre 
in Osijek, during the period from 2000 to 2007. Routine follow-up was carried 
out until March of 2012 or death. Median life expectancy for all patients who 
underwent surgery was 98 months. 47% of patients with resection without residual 
tumor (R0) did not develop local recurrence after median of observation of 90 
months. 5-year survival rate for patients with R0 resection was 76.4%. The 
patients who had preoperative serum levels of carcinoembryonic antigen (CEA) 
within the normal range (< 5 microg/mL) had a significantly better prognosis 
with 5-year survival of 75.8%, than patients with elevated levels who had 5-year 
survival of 46.5%. Tumor stage had great influence on survival and was defined 
by UICC TNM (International Union against Cancer, Tumor Node Metastases) 
classification, 7th edition. 5-year survival rate was (93.5% for stage I, 87.4% 
for stage II, 58.2% for stage III, 8.1% for stage IV). Patients with low grade 
differentiation tumors had 5-year survival rate of 73.5%, and those with 
high-grade had 38.2%. We have found that preoperative CRT significantly reduces 
the rate of local recurrence (5.3% vs. 14.1%), but patients who were treated 
with preoperative CRT did not appear to benefit significantly in terms of their 
long-term prognosis, because there was no difference in overall survival between 
the patients who received preoperative radiochemotherapy and those who did not 
receive it (66.2% vs. 67.8%). It was found that the R-classification, anatomical 
extent of tumor described by the TNM classification of the UICC, tumor grade, 
and preoperative CEA serum level were prognostic factors that influenced 
survival.

PMID: 23390833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. BMC Infect Dis. 2013 Feb 7;13:75. doi: 10.1186/1471-2334-13-75.

Inclusion of the benefits of enhanced cross-protection against cervical cancer 
and prevention of genital warts in the cost-effectiveness analysis of human 
papillomavirus vaccination in the Netherlands.

Westra TA(1), Stirbu-Wagner I, Dorsman S, Tutuhatunewa ED, de Vrij EL, Nijman 
HW, Daemen T, Wilschut JC, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Microbiology, Molecular Virology Section, University 
Medical Center Groningen, University of Groningen, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, 
9713AV, Groningen, The Netherlands. t.a.westra@umcg.nl

BACKGROUND: Infection with HPV 16 and 18, the major causative agents of cervical 
cancer, can be prevented through vaccination with a bivalent or quadrivalent 
vaccine. Both vaccines provide cross-protection against HPV-types not included 
in the vaccines. In particular, the bivalent vaccine provides additional 
protection against HPV 31, 33, and 45 and the quadrivalent vaccine against 
HPV31. The quadrivalent vaccine additionally protects against low-risk HPV type 
6 and 11, responsible for most cases of genital warts. In this study, we made an 
analytical comparison of the two vaccines in terms of cost-effectiveness 
including the additional benefits of cross-protection and protection against 
genital warts in comparison with a screening-only strategy.
METHODS: We used a Markov model, simulating the progression from HPV infection 
to cervical cancer or genital warts. The model was used to estimate the 
difference in future costs and health effects of both HPV-vaccines separately.
RESULTS: In a cohort of 100,000 women, use of the bivalent or quadrivalent 
vaccine (both at 50% vaccination coverage) reduces the cervical cancer incidence 
by 221 and 207 cases, corresponding to ICERs of €17,600/QALY and €18,900/QALY, 
respectively. It was estimated that the quadrivalent vaccine additionally 
prevents 4390 cases of genital warts, reducing the ICER to €16,300/QALY. 
Assuming a comparable willingness to pay for cancer and genital warts 
prevention, the difference in ICERs could justify a slightly higher price (~7% 
per dose) in favor of the quadrivalent vaccine.
CONCLUSIONS: Clearly, HPV vaccination has been implemented for the prevention of 
cervical cancer. From this perspective, use of the bivalent HPV vaccine appears 
to be most effective and cost-effective. Including the benefits of prevention 
against genital warts, the ICER of the quadrivalent HPV vaccine was found to be 
slightly more favourable. However, current decision-making on the introduction 
of HPV is driven by the primary cervical cancer outcome. New vaccine tenders 
could consider the benefits of cross-protection and the benefits of genital 
warts, which requires more balanced decision-making.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2334-13-75
PMCID: PMC3575363
PMID: 23390964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. J Med Econ. 2013;16(4):552-9. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.774280. Epub 2013
Feb  21.

Cost-effectiveness of efavirenz vs rilpivirine in HIV patients initiating 
first-line combination antiretroviral therapy.

Bonafede M(1), Juday T, Lenhart G, Pan K, Hebden T, Correll T.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research, Truven Health Analytics, Cambridge, MA, USA. 
machaon.bonafede@truvenhealth.com

OBJECTIVE: In US treatment guidelines, efavirenz (EFV) is the preferred 
non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI) for first-line HIV 
treatment. In the ECHO and THRIVE trials comparing EFV with another NNRTI, 
rilpivirine (RPV), both medications had similar virologic suppression rates at 
96-weeks; however, RPV had higher rates of virologic failure and drug resistance 
and lower rates of discontinuation due to adverse events. This study compared 
the cost-effectiveness of EFV to RPV in first-line HIV treatment in the US.
METHODS: A Markov model with 14 health states was constructed to estimate 
10-year costs and clinical outcomes from a US payer perspective for 
antiretroviral naïve HIV patients initiating EFV or RPV. First-line efficacy 
data came from 96-week results of the ECHO and THRIVE trials, which compared EFV 
and RPV, both in combination with two nucleos(t)ide reverse transcriptase 
inhibitors. Other clinical inputs, mortality rates, and costs (2011 US$) came 
from published sources. Subsequent therapy lines (second, third, 
non-suppressive) were based on US treatment guidelines and common to both 
treatment arms. Robustness of study results was assessed in sensitivity analyses 
varying model inputs by ±25%. Potential limitations of the model center on the 
ability of any model to capture the clinical complexity of HIV treatment.
RESULTS: In the base case, 10-year costs were lower for EFV compared to RPV 
($214,031 vs $222,090). Life expectancy (8.44 years) and years without AIDS 
(8.40 years) were equal; years in virologic suppression were similar (EFV = 7.87 
years, RPV = 7.86 years). EFV had modest cost savings compared to RPV in terms 
of incremental cost-effectiveness per life-year gained, life-year gained in 
viral suppression, and life-year gained without AIDS. In sensitivity analyses, 
EFV remained cost-saving compared to RPV in over 90% of scenarios, demonstrating 
the robustness of study results.
CONCLUSIONS: EFV was predicted to be modestly cost-saving compared with RPV over 
10 years in US patients initiating first-line HIV treatment. Sensitivity 
analyses suggest that results may hold across multiple settings.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.774280
PMID: 23391157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Popul Health Metr. 2013 Feb 7;11(1):2. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-11-2.

Mortality in an Aboriginal Medical Service (Redfern) cohort.

Morrell S(1), Phillips B, Taylor R, Daniels J, Burgess K, Mayers N.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of NSW, 
Kensington, NSW, Australia. r.taylor@unsw.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Published estimates of Aboriginal mortality and life expectancy (LE) 
for the eastern Australian states are derived from demographic modelling 
techniques to estimate the population and extent of under-recording of 
Aboriginality in death registration. No reliable empirical information on 
Aboriginal mortality and LE exists for New South Wales (NSW), the most populous 
Australian state in which 29% of Aboriginal people reside.This paper estimates 
mortality and LE in a large, mainly metropolitan cohort of Aboriginal clients 
from the Aboriginal Medical Service (AMS) Redfern, Sydney, NSW.
METHODS: Identifying information from patient records accrued by the AMS Redfern 
since 1980 of definitely Aboriginal clients, without distinction between 
Aboriginal and Torres Strait Islander (n=24,035), was extracted and linked to 
the National Death Index (NDI) at the Australian Institute of Health and Welfare 
(AIHW). Age-specific mortality rates and LEs for each sex were estimated using 
the AMS patient population as the denominator, discounted for deaths. Directly 
age-standardised mortality and LEs were estimated for 1995-1999, 2000-2004 and 
2005-2009, along with 95% confidence intervals. Comparisons were made with other 
estimates of Aboriginal mortality and LE and with the total Australian 
population.
RESULTS: Mortality declined in the AMS Redfern cohort over 1995-2009, and the 
decline occurred mostly in the ≤44 year age range. Male LE at birth was 
estimated to be 64.4 years (95%CI:62.6-66.1) in 1995-1999, 65.6 years 
(95%CI:64.1-67.1) in 2000-2004, and 67.6 years (95%CI:65.9-69.2) for 2005-2009. 
In females, these LE estimates were 69.6 (95%CI:68.0-71.2), 71.1 
(95%CI:69.9-72.4), and 71.4 (95%CI:70.0-72.8) years. LE in the AMS cohort was 11 
years lower for males and 12 years lower for females than corresponding 
all-Australia LEs for the same periods. These were similar to estimates for 
Australian Aboriginal people overall for the same period by the Aboriginal 
Burden of Disease for 2009, using the General Growth Balance (GGB) model 
approach, and by the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) for 2005-2007. LE in 
the AMS cohort was somewhat lower than these estimates for NSW Aboriginal 
people, and higher than ABS 2005-2007 estimates for Aboriginal people from 
Northern Territory, South Australia, and Western Australia.
CONCLUSIONS: The AMS Redfern cohort has provided the first empirically based 
estimates of mortality and LE trends in a large sample of Aboriginal people from 
NSW.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-11-2
PMCID: PMC3602118
PMID: 23391275


255. Eur Heart J. 2013 Jul;34(25):1869-74. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/eht031. Epub
2013  Feb 7.

Health technology assessment in interventional electrophysiology and device 
therapy: a position paper of the European Heart Rhythm Association.

Boriani G(1), Maniadakis N, Auricchio A, Müller-Riemenschneider F, Fattore G, 
Leyva F, Mantovani L, Siebert M, Willich SN, Vardas P, Kirchhof P.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cardiology, University of Bologna, Policlinico 
S.Orsola-Malpighi, Italy. giuseppe.boriani@unibo.it

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/eht031
PMID: 23391583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Antiviral Res. 2013 Apr;98(1):27-34. doi: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2013.01.006.
Epub  2013 Feb 4.

Chronic hepatitis B: what should be the goal for new therapies?

Block TM(1), Gish R, Guo H, Mehta A, Cuconati A, Thomas London W, Guo JT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Drexel University College of 
Medicine, 3805 Old Easton Road, Doylestown, PA 18902, USA. 
Timothy.Block@drexelmed.edu

Chronic hepatitis B can currently be medically managed with either pegylated 
interferon-alpha (pegIFN-α) or one of the five nucleos(t)ide analog Direct 
Acting Antivirals (DAAs) that inhibit the hepatitis B virus (HBV) DNA 
polymerase. While pegIFN-α is effective in approximately one-third of the 
treated patients, the polymerase inhibitors significantly reduce viral load in 
the vast majority of those treated. However, neither pegIFN-α nor nucleosi(t)de 
analogs are capable of reliably eliminating the virus and achieving a cure. 
Moreover, the interferons and polymerase inhibitors are recommended by US, 
European and Asian professional society practice guidelines for use in only a 
subset of those infected with HBV. This subset is the population with the 
greatest levels of circulating viral DNA and abnormal liver function. Although 
this is the population at the highest risk for cirrhosis and liver cancer, those 
who fall outside the treatment guidelines, with low levels of viral replication 
and normal serum ALTs, may also benefit from antiviral therapy. The questions 
are thus: are new classes of drugs needed to manage chronic hepatitis B? Is a 
cure possible? Is a cure even necessary? It is therefore important to define the 
meaning of a cure and determine what the goals of new therapies should be. In 
this article, we address those questions and propose two operational definitions 
of medically attainable cures. The first is a "functional cure" based on the 
clinical outcome, in which the patient's life expectancy becomes the same as 
that of an individual who has resolved his HBV infection without therapy. 
Because such an outcome cannot be measured over the short term, we also define 
an "apparent virological cure," based on the stable off-drug suppression of HBV 
viremia and antigenemia and the normalization of ALTs and other laboratory 
tests. We suggest that such a virological cure should be the goal of future 
therapeutics in all patients with chronic hepatitis B. The extent to which a 
virological cure predicts a functional cure will only be determined by long-term 
follow-up.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.antiviral.2013.01.006
PMCID: PMC3627746
PMID: 23391846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2013 Jun 1;63(2):195-200. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e3182895565.

The cost-effectiveness of repeat HIV testing during pregnancy in a 
resource-limited setting.

Kim LH(1), Cohan DL, Sparks TN, Pilliod RA, Arinaitwe E, Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology & Reproductive Sciences, University of 
California, San Francisco, CA 94143-0132, USA. kimlh@obgyn.ucsf.edu

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of HIV screening strategies for 
the prevention of perinatal transmission in Uganda, a resource-limited country 
with high HIV prevalence and incidence.
STUDY DESIGN: We designed a decision analytic model from a health care system 
perspective to assess the vertical transmission rates and cost-effectiveness of 
4 different HIV screening strategies in pregnancy: (1) rapid HIV antibody (Ab) 
test at initial visit (current standard of care), (2) strategy 1 + HIV RNA at 
initial visit (adds detection of acute HIV), (3) strategy 1 + repeat HIV Ab at 
delivery (adds detection of incident HIV), and (4) strategy 3 + HIV RNA at 
delivery (adds detection of acute HIV at delivery). Model estimates were derived 
from the literature and local sources, and life years saved were discounted at a 
rate of 3% per year. Based on World Health Organization guidelines, we defined 
our cost-effectiveness threshold as ≤3 times the gross domestic product per 
capita, which for Uganda was US$3300 in 2008.
RESULTS: Using base case estimates of 10% HIV prevalence among women entering 
prenatal care and 3% incidence during pregnancy, strategy 3 was incrementally 
the cost-effective option that led to the greatest total life years.
CONCLUSIONS: Repeat rapid HIV Ab testing at the time of labor is a 
cost-effective strategy even in a resource-limited setting such as Uganda.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e3182895565
PMCID: PMC3653987
PMID: 23392461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None


258. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 Jan;15(1):69-82. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0456-5.
Epub  2013 Feb 8.

Cost-effectiveness of roflumilast as an add-on treatment to long-acting 
bronchodilators in the treatment of COPD associated with chronic bronchitis in 
the United Kingdom.

Samyshkin Y(1), Kotchie RW, Mörk AC, Briggs AH, Bateman ED.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, 210 Pentonville Road, London, N1 9JY, UK, 
ysamyshkin@uk.imshealth.com.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of adding a selective 
phosphodiesterase-4 inhibitor, roflumilast, to a long-acting bronchodilator 
therapy (LABA) for the treatment of patients with severe-to-very severe chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) associated with chronic bronchitis with a 
history of frequent exacerbations from the UK payer perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to predict the lifetime cost and outcomes 
[exacerbations rates, life expectancy, and quality-adjusted life years (QALY)] 
in patients treated with roflumilast, which showed a reduction in the 
exacerbation rates and lung function improvement in a pooled analysis from two 
clinical trials, M2-124 and M2-125. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to 
explore the impact of uncertainties on the cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: The addition of roflumilast to concomitant LABA reduced the number of 
exacerbations from 15.6 to 12.7 [2.9 (95 % CI 0.88-4.92) exacerbations avoided] 
and increased QALYs from 5.45 to 5.61 [0.16 (95 % CI 0.02-0.31) QALYs gained], 
at an incremental cost of £3,197 (95 % CI £2,135-£4,253). Cost in LABA alone and 
LABA + roflumilast were £16,161 and £19,358 respectively. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios in the base case were £19,505 (95 % CI £364-£38,646) 
per quality-adjusted life-year gained and 18,219 (95 % CI £12,697-£49,135) per 
life-year gained. Sensitivity analyses suggest that among the main determinants 
of cost-effectiveness are the reduction of exacerbations and the case fatality 
rate due to hospital-treated exacerbations. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
suggests that the probability of roflumilast being cost-effective is 82 % at 
willingness-to-pay £30,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of roflumilast to LABA in the treatment of patients 
with severe-to-very severe COPD reduces the rate of exacerbations and can be 
cost-effective in the UK setting.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0456-5
PMCID: PMC3889819
PMID: 23392624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Health Serv Res Policy. 2013 Jan;18(1):34-9. doi:
10.1258/jhsrp.2012.011057.

Understanding Harris' understanding of CEA: is cost effective resource 
allocation undone?

Edlin R(1), McCabe C, Round J, Wright J, Claxton K, Sculpher M, Cookson R.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Auckland, New Zealand. 
r.edlin@auckland.ac.nz

We summarise and evaluate Harris' criticisms of cost-effectiveness analysis 
(CEA) and the alternative processes he commends to health care decision makers. 
In contrast to CEA, Harris' asserts that individuals have a right to life-saving 
treatment that cannot be denied on the basis of their capacity to benefit. We 
conclude that, whilst Harris' work has challenged the proponents of CEA and 
quality-adjusted life years to be explicit about the method's indirect 
discriminatory characteristics, his arguments ignore important questions about 
what 'lives saved' mean. Harris also attempts to avoid opportunity cost by 
advocating the same chance of treatment for every person desiring treatment. 
Using a simple example, we illustrate that an 'equal chances' lottery is not in 
the interest of any patient, as it reduces the chance of treatment for all 
patients by leaving some of the health budget unspent.

DOI: 10.1258/jhsrp.2012.011057
PMID: 23393040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. BMC Cancer. 2013 Feb 8;13:70. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-70.

Comparative performances of prognostic indexes for breast cancer patients 
presenting with brain metastases.

Braccini AL(1), Azria D, Thezenas S, Romieu G, Ferreri JM, Jacot W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Val d'Aurelle Cancer Institute, 208 rue des 
apothicaires, Montpellier 34298, France. 
Antoine.Braccini@montpellier.unicancer.fr

BACKGROUND: Several prognostic indexes (PI) have been developed in the brain 
metastases (BM) setting to help physicians tailor treatment options and stratify 
patients enrolled in clinical studies. The aim of our study was to compare the 
clinical relevance of the major PI for breast cancer BM.
METHODS: Clinical and biological data of 250 breast cancer patients diagnosed 
with BM at two institutions between 1995 and 2010 were retrospectively reviewed. 
The prognostic value and accuracy of recursive partitioning analysis (RPA), 
graded prognostic assessment (GPA), basic score for BM (BS-BM), breast RPA, 
breast GPA, Le Scodan's Score and a clinico-biological score developed in a 
phase I study (P1PS) were assessed using Cox regression models. PI comparison 
was performed using Harrell's concordance index.
RESULTS: After a median follow-up of 4.5 years, median overall survival (OS) 
from BM diagnosis was 8.9 months (CI 95%, 6.9-10.3 months). All PI were 
significantly associated with OS. Harrell's concordance indexes C favored BS-BM 
and RPA. In multivariate analysis, the RPA, Le Scodan's score and GPA were found 
to be the best independent predictors of OS. In multivariate analysis restricted 
to the 159 patients with known LDH and proteinemia, RPA 2 and 3, Le Scodan's 
Score 3 and P1PS 2/3 were associated with worse survival. RPA was the most 
accurate score to identify patients with long (superior to 12 months) and short 
(inferior to 3 months) life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: RPA seems to be the most useful score and performs better than new 
PI for breast cancer BM.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-70
PMCID: PMC3599004
PMID: 23394467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. J Plast Reconstr Aesthet Surg. 2013 Aug;66(8):1138-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.bjps.2012.12.021. Epub 2013 Feb 5.

Novel use of a supraclavicular transverse cervical artery customised perforator 
flap: a paediatric emergency.

Dolan RT(1), O'Duffy F, Seoighe DM, Dias A, Earley MJ, O'Dwyer T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, Children's University 
Hospital, Temple St., Dublin 1, Ireland. roshdolan@hotmail.com

Perforation of the piriform fossa is a rare, potentially life-threatening 
paediatric emergency. Prompt diagnosis and early operative intervention is key 
to patient survival, yet restoring aerodigestive continuity can pose a 
significant reconstructive challenge. A seven-month old baby girl presented to 
an emergency department acutely unwell with a twenty-four-hour history of 
haemoptysis, cough and worsening respiratory distress. A contrast swallow 
demonstrated extension of contrast into the retropharyngeal region necessitating 
immediate surgical intervention. A 3.0 cm×1.0 cm perforation within the left 
posterolateral piriform fossa was identified. The defect was repaired with a 
supraclavicular transverse cervical artery customised perforator flap. This was 
inset into the piriform fossa luminal defect as a life-saving procedure. 
Following a stormy post-operative course, the child was discharged home on day 
28 of admission and admitted electively 6 weeks later for division of flap 
pedicle. This case highlights the novel use of this fasciocutaneous island flap 
to reconstruct an extensive, potentially fatal, piriform fossa defect in an 
acute paediatric setting. This simple flap design offers timely mobilisation, 
reliable blood supply, adequate tenuity and surface area, to reconstruct this 
extensive defect as a life-saving intervention in a profoundly septic child.

Copyright © 2013 British Association of Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic 
Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjps.2012.12.021
