11. PLoS Med. 2012;9(12):e1001361. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001361. Epub 2012
Dec  27.

Personalized prediction of lifetime benefits with statin therapy for 
asymptomatic individuals: a modeling study.

Ferket BS(1), van Kempen BJ, Heeringa J, Spronk S, Fleischmann KE, Nijhuis RL, 
Hofman A, Steyerberg EW, Hunink MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Physicians need to inform asymptomatic individuals about 
personalized outcomes of statin therapy for primary prevention of cardiovascular 
disease (CVD). However, current prediction models focus on short-term outcomes 
and ignore the competing risk of death due to other causes. We aimed to predict 
the potential lifetime benefits with statin therapy, taking into account 
competing risks.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: A microsimulation model based on 5-y follow-up data from 
the Rotterdam Study, a population-based cohort of individuals aged 55 y and 
older living in the Ommoord district of Rotterdam, the Netherlands, was used to 
estimate lifetime outcomes with and without statin therapy. The model was 
validated in-sample using 10-y follow-up data. We used baseline variables and 
model output to construct (1) a web-based calculator for gains in total and 
CVD-free life expectancy and (2) color charts for comparing these gains to the 
Systematic Coronary Risk Evaluation (SCORE) charts. In 2,428 participants (mean 
age 67.7 y, 35.5% men), statin therapy increased total life expectancy by 0.3 y 
(SD 0.2) and CVD-free life expectancy by 0.7 y (SD 0.4). Age, sex, smoking, 
blood pressure, hypertension, lipids, diabetes, glucose, body mass index, 
waist-to-hip ratio, and creatinine were included in the calculator. Gains in 
total and CVD-free life expectancy increased with blood pressure, unfavorable 
lipid levels, and body mass index after multivariable adjustment. Gains 
decreased considerably with advancing age, while SCORE 10-y CVD mortality risk 
increased with age. Twenty-five percent of participants with a low SCORE risk 
achieved equal or larger gains in CVD-free life expectancy than the median gain 
in participants with a high SCORE risk.
CONCLUSIONS: We developed tools to predict personalized increases in total and 
CVD-free life expectancy with statin therapy. The predicted gains we found are 
small. If the underlying model is validated in an independent cohort, the tools 
may be useful in discussing with patients their individual outcomes with statin 
therapy.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001361
PMCID: PMC3531501
PMID: 23300388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


12. Soins Gerontol. 2012 Nov-Dec;(98):22-4.

[The role of the healthcare manager in the provision of home nursing care].

[Article in French]

Ménel V(1).

Author information:
(1)Ssiad ADMR, La Primaube, France. siad.laprimaube@free.fr

Home nursing care services have evolved considerably since their creation in the 
1970s. More care is provided at home due to the increase in life expectancy, 
highlighting the need for qualified staff. Very often due to the lack of a 
recognised qualification in this area, it is experience which serves as a 
criterion for key posts such as that of nurse coordinator.

PMID: 23301304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Rejuvenation Res. 2013 Apr;16(2):98-104. doi: 10.1089/rej.2012.1368.

Brief early-life non-specific incorporation of deuterium extends mean life span 
in Drosophila melanogaster without affecting fecundity.

Hammel SC(1), East K, Shaka AJ, Rose MR, Shahrestani P.

Author information:
(1)Chemistry Department, University of California, Irvine, California, USA.

We have investigated the effects of brief, non-specific deuteration of 
Drosophila melanogaster by including varying percentages of ²H (D) in the H₂O 
used in the food mix consumed during initial development. Up to 22.5% deuterium 
oxide (D₂O) in H₂O was administered, with the result that a low percentage of 
D₂O in the water increased mean life span, whereas the highest percentage used 
(22.5%) reduced life span. After the one-time treatment period, adult flies were 
maintained ad libitum with food of normal isotopic distribution. At low 
deuterium levels, where life span extension was observed, there was no observed 
change in fecundity. Dead flies were assayed for deuterium incorporation by 
complete hydrolysis in hot 12 N HCl solution followed by subsequent 
high-performance liquid chromatography/mass spectrometry (HPLC/MS). Isoleucine 
and leucine residues showed a small, linear dose-dependent incorporation of 
deuterium at non-exchangeable sites. Although high levels of D₂O itself are 
toxic for other reasons, higher levels of deuterium incorporation, which can be 
achieved without toxicity by strategies that avoid direct use of D₂O, are 
clearly worth exploring.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2012.1368
PMID: 23301756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Bioethics. 2013 Feb;27(2):ii. doi: 10.1111/bioe.12014.

Saving lives.

Chadwick R.

DOI: 10.1111/bioe.12014
PMID: 23301923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. J Biosoc Sci. 2013 Nov;45(6):823-40. doi: 10.1017/S0021932012000818. Epub
2013  Jan 10.

Sex- and age-related mortality profiles during famine: testing the 'body fat' 
hypothesis.

Speakman JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Key State Laboratory of Molecular and Developmental Biology, Institute of 
Genetics and Developmental Biology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.

During famines females generally have a mortality advantage relative to males, 
and the highest levels of mortality occur in the very young and the elderly. One 
popular hypothesis is that the sex differential in mortality may reflect the 
greater body fatness combined with lower metabolism of females, which may also 
underpin the age-related patterns of mortality among adults. This study 
evaluated the 'body fat' hypothesis using a previously published and validated 
mathematical model of survival during total starvation. The model shows that at 
a given body weight females would indeed be expected to survive considerably 
longer than males in the absence of food. At a mass of 70 kg for example a 
female aged 30 would survive for 144 days compared with life expectancy of only 
95 days for a male of the same age and weight. This effect is contributed to by 
both the higher body fatness and lower metabolism of the females at a given body 
weight. However, females are generally smaller than males and in addition to a 
sex effect there was also a major effect of body size - heavier individuals 
survive longer. When this body size effect was removed by considering survival 
in relation to BMI the sex effect was much reduced, and could be offset by a 
relatively small difference in pre-famine BMI between the sexes. Nevertheless, 
combining these predictions with observed mean BMIs of males and females across 
48 countries at the low end of the obesity spectrum suggests that in the 
complete absence of food females would survive on average about 40% longer 
(range 6 to 64.5%) than males. The energy balance model also predicted that 
older adult individuals should survive much longer than younger adult 
individuals, by virtue of their lower resting metabolic rates and lower activity 
levels. Observations of the female survival advantage in multiple famines span a 
much wider range than the model prediction (5% to 210%). This suggests in some 
famines body fatness may be a significant factor influencing the mortality 
differential between the sexes, but in other famines other factors are likely to 
be more important. Moreover, the pattern of mortality in relation to age is 
completely opposite that predicted. These data emphasize the complex nature of 
famine mortality and suggest that a simple model of energy utilization alone is 
inadequate to explain the major aspects of this phenomenon.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932012000818
PMID: 23302114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Health Econ. 2013 Feb;22(2):157-67. doi: 10.1002/hec.1825. Epub 2012 Jan 2.

Examining the link between cash flow, market value, and research and development 
investment spending in the medical device industry.

Schmutz BP(1), Santerre RE.

Author information:
(1)Roger Williams University, Gabelli School of Business, Bristol, RI, USA. 
bschmutz@rwu.edu

Unlike the pharmaceutical industry, no empirical research has focused on the 
factors influencing research and development (R&D) spending in the medical 
device industry. To fill that gap, this study examines how R&D spending is 
influenced by prior year cash flow and corporate market value using multiple 
regression analysis and a panel data set of medical device companies over the 
period 1962-2008. The empirical findings suggest that the elasticities of R&D 
spending with respect to cash flow and corporate market value equal 0.58 and 
0.31, respectively. Moreover, based upon these estimates, simulations show that 
the recently enacted excise tax on medical devices, taken alone, will reduce R&D 
spending by approximately $4 billion and thereby lead to a minimum loss of $20 
billion worth of human life years over the first 10 years of its enactment.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.1825
PMID: 23303706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. BMJ. 2013 Jan 8;346:e8639. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e8639.

Intermittent self catheterisation with hydrophilic, gel reservoir, and 
non-coated catheters: a systematic review and cost effectiveness analysis.

Bermingham SL(1), Hodgkinson S, Wright S, Hayter E, Spinks J, Pellowe C.

Author information:
(1)Royal College of Physicians, National Clinical Guideline Centre, London NW1 
4LE, UK.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2015 Dec;194(6):1644.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the most effective and cost effective type of catheter 
for patients performing intermittent self catheterisation in the community.
DESIGN: Systematic review and meta-analysis. Results were incorporated into a 
probabilistic Markov model to compare lifetime costs and quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs).
DATA SOURCES: We searched Medline, Embase, and Cochrane and Cinahl databases 
from 2002 to 18 April 2011 to identify studies comparing hydrophilic, gel 
reservoir, and non-coated intermittent catheters. Earlier guidelines were used 
to identify papers published before 2002. To capture studies comparing clean and 
sterile non-coated intermittent self catheterisation, each database was searched 
from its date of inception to 18 April 2011.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Clinical outcomes included symptomatic urinary tract 
infection (UTI), bacteraemia, mortality, patient preference or comfort, and 
number of catheters used. The economic model included downstream complications 
of UTI and cost effectiveness was calculated as incremental cost per QALY 
gained.
RESULTS: Eight studies were included in the systematic review. Most were 
conducted in patients with spinal cord injuries, and most of the included 
patients were men. People using gel reservoir and hydrophilic catheters were 
significantly less likely to report one or more UTIs compared with sterile 
non-coated catheters (absolute effect for gel reservoir = 149 fewer per 1000 
(95% confidence interval -7 to 198), P=0.04; absolute effect for hydrophilic = 
153 fewer per 1000 (-8 to 268), P=0.04). However, there was no difference 
between hydrophilic and sterile non-coated catheters when outcomes were measured 
as mean monthly UTIs (mean difference = 0.01 (-0.11 to 0.09), P=0.84) or total 
UTIs at 1 year (mean difference = 0.18 (-0.50 to 0.86), P=0.60). There was 
little difference in the incidence of one or more UTIs for people using clean 
versus sterile non-coated catheters (absolute effect = 12 fewer per 1000 (-134 
to 146), P=0.86). Although the most effective, gel reservoir catheters cost 
>£54,350 per QALY gained and are therefore not cost effective compared with 
clean non-coated self catheterisation.
CONCLUSION: The type of catheter used for intermittent self catheterisation 
seems to make little difference to the risk of symptomatic UTI. Given large 
differences in resource use, clean non-coated catheters are most cost effective. 
However, because of limitations and gaps in the evidence base and the 
designation of non-coated catheters as single use devices, we recommend a 
precautionary principle should be adopted and that patients should be offered a 
choice between hydrophilic and gel reservoir catheters.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e8639
PMCID: PMC3541473
PMID: 23303886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available 
on request from the corresponding author) and declare: no support from any 
organisation for the submitted work; no financial relationships with any 
organisations that might have an interest in the submitted work in the previous 
three years; no other relationships or activities that could appear to have 
influenced the submitted work.


18. ISRN Pharm. 2012;2012:718645. doi: 10.5402/2012/718645. Epub 2012 Dec 13.

Chemical Composition, Antifungal and Antibiofilm Activities of the Essential Oil 
of Mentha piperita L.

Saharkhiz MJ(1), Motamedi M, Zomorodian K, Pakshir K, Miri R, Hemyari K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticultural Sciences, Faculty of Agriculture, Shiraz 
University, Shiraz 71441-65186, Iran.

Variations in quantity and quality of essential oil (EO) from the aerial parts 
of cultivated Mentha piperita were determined. The EO of air-dried sample was 
obtained by a hydrodistillation method and analyzed by a gas chromatography/mass 
spectrometry (GC/MS). The antifungal activity of the EO was investigated by 
broth microdilution methods as recommended by Clinical and Laboratory Standards 
Institute. A biofilm formation inhibition was measured by using an XTT reduction 
assay. Menthol (53.28%) was the major compound of the EO followed by Menthyl 
acetate (15.1%) and Menthofuran (11.18%). The EO exhibited strong antifungal 
activities against the examined fungi at concentrations ranging from 0.12 to 
8.0 μL/mL. In addition, the EO inhibited the biofilm formation of Candida 
albicans and C. dubliniensis at concentrations up to 2 μL/mL. Considering the 
wide range of the antifungal activities of the examined EO, it might be 
potentially used in the management of fungal infections or in the extension of 
the shelf life of food products.

DOI: 10.5402/2012/718645
PMCID: PMC3532871
PMID: 23304561


19. Blood. 2013 Mar 28;121(13):2542-52. doi: 10.1182/blood-2012-07-443457. Epub
2013  Jan 10.

Megakaryocytes assemble podosomes that degrade matrix and protrude through 
basement membrane.

Schachtner H(1), Calaminus SD, Sinclair A, Monypenny J, Blundell MP, Leon C, 
Holyoake TL, Thrasher AJ, Michie AM, Vukovic M, Gachet C, Jones GE, Thomas SG, 
Watson SP, Machesky LM.

Author information:
(1)University of Glasgow College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences and 
Beatson Institute for Cancer Research, Bearsden, Glasgow, UK.

Comment in
    Blood. 2013 Mar 28;121(13):2379-80.

Megakaryocytes give rise to platelets via extension of proplatelet arms, which 
are released through the vascular sinusoids into the bloodstream. Megakaryocytes 
and their precursors undergo varying interactions with the extracellular 
environment in the bone marrow during their maturation and positioning in the 
vascular niche. We demonstrate that podosomes are abundant in primary murine 
megakaryocytes adherent on multiple extracellular matrix substrates, including 
native basement membrane. Megakaryocyte podosome lifetime and density, but not 
podosome size, are dependent on the type of matrix, with podosome lifetime 
dramatically increased on collagen fibers compared with fibrinogen. Podosome 
stability and dynamics depend on actin cytoskeletal dynamics but not matrix 
metalloproteases. However, podosomes degrade matrix and appear to be important 
for megakaryocytes to extend protrusions across a native basement membrane. We 
thus demonstrate for the first time a fundamental requirement for podosomes in 
megakaryocyte process extension across a basement membrane, and our results 
suggest that podosomes may have a role in proplatelet arm extension or 
penetration of basement membrane.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2012-07-443457
PMID: 23305739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Alzheimers Dement. 2013 Jan;9(1):63-75.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jalz.2012.11.007.

The global prevalence of dementia: a systematic review and metaanalysis.

Prince M(1), Bryce R, Albanese E, Wimo A, Ribeiro W, Ferri CP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK. 
Martin.Prince@kcl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The evidence base on the prevalence of dementia is expanding 
rapidly, particularly in countries with low and middle incomes. A reappraisal of 
global prevalence and numbers is due, given the significant implications for 
social and public policy and planning.
METHODS: In this study we provide a systematic review of the global literature 
on the prevalence of dementia (1980-2009) and metaanalysis to estimate the 
prevalence and numbers of those affected, aged ≥60 years in 21 Global Burden of 
Disease regions.
RESULTS: Age-standardized prevalence for those aged ≥60 years varied in a narrow 
band, 5%-7% in most world regions, with a higher prevalence in Latin America 
(8.5%), and a distinctively lower prevalence in the four sub-Saharan African 
regions (2%-4%). It was estimated that 35.6 million people lived with dementia 
worldwide in 2010, with numbers expected to almost double every 20 years, to 
65.7 million in 2030 and 115.4 million in 2050. In 2010, 58% of all people with 
dementia lived in countries with low or middle incomes, with this proportion 
anticipated to rise to 63% in 2030 and 71% in 2050.
CONCLUSION: The detailed estimates in this study constitute the best current 
basis for policymaking, planning, and allocation of health and welfare resources 
in dementia care. The age-specific prevalence of dementia varies little between 
world regions, and may converge further. Future projections of numbers of people 
with dementia may be modified substantially by preventive interventions 
(lowering incidence), improvements in treatment and care (prolonging survival), 
and disease-modifying interventions (preventing or slowing progression). All 
countries need to commission nationally representative surveys that are repeated 
regularly to monitor trends.

Copyright © 2013 The Alzheimer's Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jalz.2012.11.007
PMID: 23305823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Lancet Oncol. 2013 Feb;14(2):149-58. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70560-0. Epub
 2013 Jan 8.

Androgen-deprivation therapy alone or with docetaxel in non-castrate metastatic 
prostate cancer (GETUG-AFU 15): a randomised, open-label, phase 3 trial.

Gravis G(1), Fizazi K, Joly F, Oudard S, Priou F, Esterni B, Latorzeff I, Delva 
R, Krakowski I, Laguerre B, Rolland F, Théodore C, Deplanque G, Ferrero JM, 
Pouessel D, Mourey L, Beuzeboc P, Zanetta S, Habibian M, Berdah JF, Dauba J, 
Baciuchka M, Platini C, Linassier C, Labourey JL, Machiels JP, El Kouri C, 
Ravaud A, Suc E, Eymard JC, Hasbini A, Bousquet G, Soulie M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology and Biostatistics, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Marseille, 
France. gravisg@ipc.unicancer.fr

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2013 Feb;14(2):104-5.
    Nat Rev Urol. 2013 Mar;10(3):123.
    J Urol. 2013 Dec;190(6):2094.
    Urol Oncol. 2013 Nov;31(8):1845.
    Actas Urol Esp. 2017 Jul - Aug;41(6):347-351.

BACKGROUND: Early chemotherapy might improve the overall outcomes of patients 
with metastatic non-castrate (ie, hormone-sensitive) prostate cancer. We 
investigated the effects of the addition of docetaxel to androgen-deprivation 
therapy (ADT) for patients with metastatic non-castrate prostate cancer.
METHODS: In this randomised, open-label, phase 3 study, we enrolled patients in 
29 centres in France and one in Belgium. Eligible patients were older than 18 
years and had histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate and 
radiologically proven metastatic disease; a Karnofsky score of at least 70%; a 
life expectancy of at least 3 months; and adequate hepatic, haematological, and 
renal function. They were randomly assigned to receive to ADT (orchiectomy or 
luteinising hormone-releasing hormone agonists, alone or combined with 
non-steroidal antiandrogens) alone or in combination with docetaxel (75 mg/m(2) 
intravenously on the first day of each 21-day cycle; up to nine cycles). 
Patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio, with dynamic minimisation to minimise 
imbalances in previous systemic treatment with ADT, chemotherapy for local 
disease or isolated rising concentration of serum prostate-specific antigen, and 
Glass risk groups. Patients, physicians, and data analysts were not masked to 
treatment allocation. The primary endpoint was overall survival. Efficacy 
analyses were done by intention to treat. This trial is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00104715.
FINDINGS: Between Oct 18, 2004, and Dec 31, 2008, 192 patients were randomly 
allocated to receive ADT plus docetaxel and 193 to receive ADT alone. Median 
follow-up was 50 months (IQR 39-63). Median overall survival was 58·9 months 
(95% CI 50·8-69·1) in the group given ADT plus docetaxel and 54·2 months 
(42·2-not reached) in that given ADT alone (hazard ratio 1·01, 95% CI 
0·75-1·36). 72 serious adverse events were reported in the group given ADT plus 
docetaxel, of which the most frequent were neutropenia (40 [21%]), febrile 
neutropenia (six [3%]), abnormal liver function tests (three [2%]), and 
neutropenia with infection (two [1%]). Four treatment-related deaths occurred in 
the ADT plus docetaxel group (two of which were neutropenia-related), after 
which the data monitoring committee recommended treatment with granulocyte 
colony-stimulating factor. After this recommendation, no further 
treatment-related deaths occurred. No serious adverse events were reported in 
the ADT alone group.
INTERPRETATION: Docetaxel should not be used as part of first-line treatment for 
patients with non-castrate metastatic prostate cancer.
FUNDING: French Health Ministry and Institut National du Cancer (PHRC), 
Sanofi-Aventis, AstraZeneca, and Amgen.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(12)70560-0
PMID: 23306100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Mar 15;187(6):621-9. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201206-1150OC. Epub 2013 Jan 10.

A Th17- and Th2-skewed cytokine profile in cystic fibrosis lungs represents a 
potential risk factor for Pseudomonas aeruginosa infection.

Tiringer K(1), Treis A, Fucik P, Gona M, Gruber S, Renner S, Dehlink E, Nachbaur 
E, Horak F, Jaksch P, Döring G, Crameri R, Jung A, Rochat MK, Hörmann M, 
Spittler A, Klepetko W, Akdis CA, Szépfalusi Z, Frischer T, Eiwegger T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, Medical University of 
Vienna, Waehringer Guertel 18-20, Vienna, Austria.

Comment in
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Mar 15;187(6):564-6.

RATIONALE: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterized by progressive pulmonary 
inflammation that is infection-triggered. Pseudomonas aeruginosa represents a 
risk factor for deterioration of lung function and reduced life expectancy.
OBJECTIVES: To assess T-cell cytokine/chemokine production in clinically stable 
children with CF and evaluate the association between T-cell subtypes and 
susceptibility for infection with P. aeruginosa.
METHODS: T-cell cytokine/chemokine profiles were measured in bronchoalveolar 
lavage fluid (BALF) from children with CF (n = 57; 6.1 ± 5.9 yr) and non-CF 
control subjects (n = 18; 5.9 ± 4.3 yr). Memory responses to Aspergillus 
fumigatus and P. aeruginosa were monitored. High-resolution computed 
tomography-based Helbich score was assessed. In a prospective observational 
trial the association between BALF cytokine/chemokine profiles and subsequent 
infection with P. aeruginosa was studied.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Th1- (INF-γ), Th2- (IL-5, IL-13), Th17- (IL-17A), 
and Th17-related cytokines (IL-1β, IL-6) were significantly up-regulated in 
airways of patients with CF. IL-17A, IL-13, and IL-5 were significantly higher 
in BALF of symptomatic as compared with clinically asymptomatic patients with 
CF. IL-17A and IL-5 correlated with the percentage of neutrophils in BALF (r = 
0.41, P < 0.05 and r = 0.46, P < 0.05, respectively). Th17- (IL-17A, IL-6, 
IL-1β, IL-8) and Th2-associated cytokines and chemokines (IL-5, IL-13, 
TARC/CCL17), but not IFN-γ levels, significantly correlated with high-resolution 
computed tomography changes (Helbich score; P < 0.05). P. aeruginosa- and A. 
fumigatus-specific T cells from patients with CF displayed significantly higher 
IL-5 and IL-17A mRNA expression. IL-17A and TARC/CCL17 were significantly 
augmented in patients that developed P. aeruginosa infection within 24 months.
CONCLUSIONS: We propose a role for Th17 and Th2 T cells in chronic inflammation 
in lungs of patients with CF. High concentrations of these cytokines/chemokines 
in CF airways precede infection with P. aeruginosa.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201206-1150OC
PMID: 23306544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Acta Derm Venereol. 2013 Jul 6;93(4):446-50. doi: 10.2340/00015555-1520.

Quality of life and emotional state in vitiligo in an Estonian sample: 
comparison with psoriasis and healthy controls.

Karelson M(1), Silm H, Kingo K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Venereology, University of Tartu, Tartu, 
Estonia. maire.karelson@kliinikum.ee

The impact of vitiligo on quality of life is controversial. The aim of this 
study was to observe the impairment of quality of life and emotional state in 
adults with vitiligo compared with subjects with psoriasis and unaffected 
controls. The study group comprised 54 subjects with vitiligo, 57 with psoriasis 
and 57 unaffected controls. All subjects were examined and interviewed using the 
Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) and Emotional State questionnaires. The 
total mean DLQI score in vitiligo was 4.7, compared with 0.6 in healthy controls 
(p<0.001) and 13.1 in psoriasis (p<0.001). In vitiligo, females experienced a 
greater impact on feelings and men experienced a greater impact on 
relationships. Lower quality of life in vitiligo was associated with active 
stage of the disease, extension of pigment loss, depigmentation on the hands, 
and earlier onset of disease. The results demonstrate that vitiligo has less 
impact on quality of life than psoriasis.

DOI: 10.2340/00015555-1520
PMID: 23306792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2013 Jan 8;133(1):64-7. doi: 10.4045/tidsskr.12.0659.

[What is meant by "severity of illness"?].

[Article in Norwegian]

Olsen JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitetet i Tromsø, Norway. jan.abel.olsen@uit.no

Comment in
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2013 Jan 8;133(1):8.
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2013 Mar 5;133(5):499-500.

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.12.0659
PMID: 23306998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. JAMA. 2013 Feb 27;309(8):771-2. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.91.

The US health disadvantage relative to other high-income countries: findings 
from a National Research Council/Institute of Medicine report.

Woolf SH(1), Aron LY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Center on Human Needs, Virginia 
Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 23298-0251, USA.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.91
PMID: 23307023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Bone Joint J. 2013 Jan;95-B(1):115-21. doi: 10.1302/0301-620X.95B1.29835.

Predicting the cost-effectiveness of total hip and knee replacement: a health 
economic analysis.

Jenkins PJ(1), Clement ND, Hamilton DF, Gaston P, Patton JT, Howie CR.

Author information:
(1)University of Edinburgh, Department of Orthopaedics, Chancellor's Building, 
Royal Infirmary of Edinburgh, Old Dalkeith Road, Edinburgh EH16 4SB, UK. 
paul.jenkins@ed.ac.uk

The aim of this study was to perform a cost-utility analysis of total hip (THR) 
and knee replacement (TKR). Arthritis is a disabling condition that leads to 
long-term deterioration in quality of life. Total joint replacement, despite 
being one of the greatest advances in medicine of the modern era, has recently 
come under scrutiny. The National Health Service (NHS) has competing demands, 
and resource allocation is challenging in times of economic restraint. Patients 
who underwent THR (n = 348) or TKR (n = 323) between January and July 2010 in 
one Scottish region were entered into a prospective arthroplasty database. A 
health-utility score was derived from the EuroQol (EQ-5D) score pre-operatively 
and at one year, and was combined with individual life expectancy to derive the 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. Two-way analysis of variance was 
used to compare QALYs gained between procedures, while controlling for baseline 
differences. The number of QALYs gained was higher after THR than after TKR (6.5 
vs 4.0 years, p < 0.001). The cost per QALY for THR was £1372 compared with 
£2101 for TKR. The predictors of an increase in QALYs gained were poorer health 
before surgery (p < 0.001) and younger age (p < 0.001). General health (EQ-5D 
VAS) showed greater improvement after THR than after TKR (p < 0.001). This study 
provides up-to-date cost-effectiveness data for total joint replacement. THR and 
TKR are extremely effective both clinically and in terms of cost effectiveness, 
with costs that compare favourably to those of other medical interventions.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.95B1.29835
PMID: 23307684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Br J Psychiatry. 2013 Mar;202(3):220-7. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.111.107888. Epub 
2013 Jan 10.

Cost-effectiveness of an improving access to psychological therapies service.

Mukuria C(1), Brazier J, Barkham M, Connell J, Hardy G, Hutten R, Saxon D, 
Dent-Brown K, Parry G.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research 
(ScHARR), University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 
4DA, UK. c.mukuria@sheffield.ac.uk

Comment in
    Br J Psychiatry. 2013 May;202(5):383.

BACKGROUND: Effective psychological therapies have been recommended for common 
mental health problems, such as depression and anxiety, but provision has been 
poor. Improving Access to Psychological Therapies (IAPT) may provide a 
cost-effective solution to this problem.
AIMS: To determine the cost-effectiveness of IAPT at the Doncaster demonstration 
site (2007-2009).
METHOD: An economic evaluation comparing costs and health outcomes for patients 
at the IAPT demonstration site with those for comparator sites, including a 
separate assessment of lost productivity. Sensitivity analyses were undertaken.
RESULTS: The IAPT site had higher service costs and was associated with small 
additional gains in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) compared with its 
comparator sites, resulting in a cost per QALY gained of £29 500 using the Short 
Form (SF-6D). Sensitivity analysis using predicted EQ-5D scores lowered this to 
£16 857. Costs per reliable and clinically significant (RCS) improvement were 
£9440 per participant.
CONCLUSIONS: Improving Access to Psychological Therapies provided a service that 
was probably cost-effective within the usual National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence (NICE) threshold range of £20 000-30 000, but there was 
considerable uncertainty surrounding the costs and outcome differences.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.111.107888
PMID: 23307921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e53193. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053193. Epub 2013 Jan
7.

Estimation of HIV-testing rates to maximize early diagnosis-derived benefits at 
the individual and population level.

Dilernia DA(1), Monaco DC, Cesar C, Krolewiecki AJ, Friedman SR, Cahn P, Salomon 
H.

Author information:
(1)Centro Nacional de Referencia para el SIDA, Facultad de Medicina, Universidad 
de Buenos Aires, Ciudad Autonoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina.

BACKGROUND: In HIV infection, initiation of treatment is associated with 
improved clinical outcom and reduced rate of sexual transmission. However, 
difficulty in detecting infection in early stages impairs those benefits. We 
determined the minimum testing rate that maximizes benefits derived from early 
diagnosis.
METHODS: We developed a mathematical model of HIV infection, diagnosis and 
treatment that allows studying both diagnosed and undiagnosed populations, as 
well as determining the impact of modifying time to diagnosis and testing rates. 
The model's external consistency was assessed by estimating time to AIDS and 
death in absence of treatment as well as by estimating age-dependent mortality 
rates during treatment, and comparing them with data previously reported from 
CASCADE and DHCS cohorts.
RESULTS: In our model, life expectancy of patients diagnosed before 8 years post 
infection is the same as HIV-negative population. After this time point, age at 
death is significantly dependent on diagnosis delay but initiation of treatment 
increases life expectancy to similar levels as HIV-negative population. Early 
mortality during HAART is dependent on treatment CD4 threshold until 6 years 
post infection and becomes dependent on diagnosis delay after 6 years post 
infection. By modifying testing rates, we estimate that an annual testing rate 
of 20% leads to diagnosis of 90% of infected individuals within the first 8.2 
years of infection and that current testing rate in middle-high income settings 
stands close to 10%. In addition, many differences between low-income and 
middle-high incomes can be predicted by solely modifying the diagnosis delay.
CONCLUSIONS: To increase testing rate of undiagnosed HIV population by two-fold 
in middle-high income settings will minimize early mortality during initiation 
of treatment and global mortality rate as well as maximize life expectancy. Our 
results highlight the impact of achieving early diagnosis and the importance of 
strongly work on improving HIV testing rates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053193
PMCID: PMC3538781
PMID: 23308161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


29. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e53526. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053526. Epub 2013 Jan
7.

Addison's disease symptoms--a cross sectional study in urban South Africa.

Ross IL(1), Levitt NS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Groote Schuur Hospital, Department of Medicine, 
University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa. ian.ross@uct.ac.za

BACKGROUND: Addison's disease is a potentially life-threatening disorder, and 
prompt diagnosis, and introduction of steroid replacement has resulted in near 
normal life-expectancy. There are limited data describing the clinical 
presentation of Addison's disease in South Africa. It is hypothesised that 
patients may present in advanced state of ill-health, compared to Western 
countries.
PATIENTS: A national database of patients was compiled from primary care, 
referral centres and private practices. 148 patients were enrolled (97 white, 34 
mixed ancestry, 5 Asian and 12 black).
METHODS: Demographic and clinical data were elicited using questionnaires. 
Biochemical data were obtained from folder reviews and laboratory archived 
results.
RESULTS: The majority of the cohort was women (62%). The median and 
inter-quartile age range (IQR) of patients at enrolment was 46.0 (32.0-61.0) 
years, with a wide range from 2.8-88.0 years. The median and IQR age at initial 
diagnosis was 34.0 (20.0-45.0) years (range 0.02-77.0) years, indicating that at 
the time of enrolment, the patients, on average, were diagnosed with Addison's 
disease 12 years previously. Hyperpigmentation was observed in 76%, nausea and 
vomiting occurred in more than 40%, and weight loss was noted in 25%. Loss of 
consciousness as a presenting feature was recorded in 20%. with a 95% confidence 
interval [CI] of (14-28%) and shock occurred in 5% CI (1.5-8.5%). Case-finding 
was recorded at 3.1 per million.
CONCLUSIONS: The usual constellation of hyperpigmentation, nausea, vomiting and 
weight loss suggests Addison's disease, but a significant proportion present 
with an advanced state of ill-health and Addisonian crises. A lower prevalence 
rate, compared to Western countries is suggested.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053526
PMCID: PMC3538548
PMID: 23308244 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Co-author N.S. Levitt is a 
PLOS ONE Editorial Board Member. This does not alter the authors’ adherence to 
all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


30. Ann Agric Environ Med. 2012;19(4):723-31.

Health inequalities among rural and urban inhabitants of Łódź Province, Poland.

Maniecka-Bryła I(1), Pikala M, Bryła M.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Department, Chair of Social and Preventive 
Medicine, Medical University, Łódź, Poland. irena.maniecka-bryla@umed.lodz.pl

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to compare the state of 
health of the inhabitants of the countryside and city dwellers in the Łódź 
province, measured with the real and standardized death rate and years of life 
lost, as well as the analysis of causes of deaths distinguishing these two 
populations.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study material included a database containing 
information gathered from 313,144 death certificates of the inhabitants of Łódź 
province who died between 1999-2008. Real and standardized death rates were 
determined. The standardization was carried out by a direct method. The Standard 
Expected Years of Life Lost (SEYLL method) was used to compute years of life 
lost. Analysis of time trends of death rates and life span in the Łódź province 
was conducted with jointpoint models. The intensity of mortality computed with 
standardized death rates in the province was higher in the countryside than in 
the city.
RESULTS: In 2008, the standardized death rate in the countryside was 904.5 per 
100,000 inhabitants, and in the city - 903.4 per 100,000 inhabitants. 
Inhabitants of the countryside more often died of cardiovascular diseases 
(SDR=418.7 vs. 367.9) and from external causes (SDR=90.2 vs. 63); those from the 
city and towns died from malignant neoplasms (SDR=204.5 vs. 195.6) and diseases 
of the alimentary tract (SDR=55.6 vs. 34.6). In 2008, SEYLL calculation for 
1,000 people was 204 years for the inhabitants of the city and towns and 190 
years for the inhabitants of the countryside.
CONCLUSION: It is necessary to introduce more effective prophylactic and health 
promoting activities in order to lessen the differences in the state of health 
state in the Łódź province and the rest of the country.

PMID: 23311797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Am J Bioeth. 2013;13(1):34-6. doi: 10.1080/15265161.2012.747030.

Prematurely depotentialized? Ethical nonnaturalism and the absurdest-extension 
objection.

Muders S(1), Ruether M.

Author information:
(1)Universität Zürich, Ethik-Zentrum, Zürich, Switzerland. 
sebastian.muders@ethik.uzh.ch

Comment on
    Am J Bioeth. 2013;13(1):19-27.

DOI: 10.1080/15265161.2012.747030
PMID: 23311840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Am Chem Soc. 2013 Jan 30;135(4):1593-9. doi: 10.1021/ja3118224. Epub 2013
Jan  22.

I-motif-programmed functionalization of DNA nanocircles.

Li T(1), Famulok M.

Author information:
(1)Life and Medical Science (LIMES) Institute, Program Unit Chemical Biology and 
Medicinal Chemistry, University of Bonn, 53121 Bonn, Germany.

The folding of various intra- and intermolecular i-motif DNAs is systematically 
studied to expand the toolbox for the control of mechanical operations in DNA 
nanoarchitectures. We analyzed i-motif DNAs with two C-tracts under acidic 
conditions by gel electrophoresis, circular dichroism, and thermal denaturation 
and show that their intra- versus intermolecular folding primarily depends on 
the length of the C-tracts. Two stretches of six or fewer C-residues favor the 
intermolecular folding of i-motifs, whereas longer C-tracts promote the 
formation of intramolecular i-motif structures with unusually high thermal 
stability. We then introduced intra- and intermolecular i-motifs formed by DNAs 
containing two C-tracts into single-stranded regions within otherwise 
double-stranded DNA nanocircles. By adjusting the length of C-tracts we can 
control the intra- and intermolecular folding of i-motif DNAs and achieve 
programmable functionalization of dsDNA nanocircles. Single-stranded gaps in the 
nanocircle that are functionalized with an intramolecular i-motif enable the 
reversible contraction and extension of the DNA circle, as monitored by 
fluorescence quenching. Thereby, the nanocircle behaves as a proton-fueled DNA 
prototype machine. In contrast, nanorings containing intermolecular i-motifs 
induce the assembly of defined multicomponent DNA architectures in response to 
proton-triggered predicted structural changes, such as dimerization, "kiss", and 
cyclization. The resulting DNA nanostructures are verified by gel 
electrophoresis and visualized by atomic force microscopy, including different 
folding topologies of an intermolecular i-motif. The i-motif-functionalized DNA 
nanocircles may serve as a versatile tool for the formation of larger 
interlocked dsDNA nanostructures, like rotaxanes and catenanes, to achieve 
diverse mechanical operations.

DOI: 10.1021/ja3118224
PMID: 23312021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Clin Ther. 2013 Feb;35(2):119-34. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.12.006. Epub 
2013 Jan 10.

Cost-effectiveness of a 10- versus 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine in 
Denmark and Sweden.

Klok RM(1), Lindkvist RM, Ekelund M, Farkouh RA, Strutton DR.

Author information:
(1)Pfizer bv, Capelle a/d IJssel, The Netherlands. rogier.klok@pfizer.com

Comment in
    Clin Ther. 2013 Jul;35(7):1048-50.
    Clin Ther. 2013 Jul;35(7):1046-7.

BACKGROUND: The introduction of a 7-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide-protein 
conjugate vaccine (PCV7) had profound public health effects across the globe. 
PCV7 vaccination in a national immunization program is generally considered 
cost-effective and potentially cost-saving. Two new PCVs have been launched, a 
10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV10) and a 13-valent pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine (PCV13).
OBJECTIVE: This article examines the public health and economic effects of 
pediatric national immunization programs of PCV10 and PCV13 in Denmark and 
Sweden.
METHODS: A previously published decision-analytic model was used to estimate the 
impact of PCV10 and PCV13 on reducing cases of invasive pneumococcal disease 
(IPD), pneumonia (PNE), and acute otitis media (AOM) by using country-specific 
incidence, serotype coverage, disease sequelae, mortality, vaccine 
effectiveness, indirect effects, costs, and utilities. Direct effects for PCV13- 
and PCV10-covered serotypes were assumed similar to PCV7. PCV13 was assumed to 
confer an indirect effect, similar to PCV7, whereas PCV10 was not. Assumptions 
were tested in sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: PCV13 is expected to save 280.7 million DKK (Danish kroner) in Denmark 
and 288.2 million SEK (Swedish kronor) in Sweden in direct costs compared with a 
vaccination program with PCV10. In both Denmark and Sweden, the results of this 
study indicate that, compared with PCV10, PCV13 will have a greater impact on 
disease in life-years gained (LYG), quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained, 
IPD cases avoided, PNE cases avoided, AOM cases avoided, and in deaths avoided. 
For Denmark PCV13, it was estimated to result in 10,051 LYG; 9063 QALYs gained; 
237 additional IPD cases avoided; 12,094 additional PNE cases avoided; 958 
additional cases of AOM avoided; and 882 additional deaths avoided. For Sweden 
PCV13, it was estimated to result in 4245 LYG; 3953 QALYs gained; 379 additional 
IPD cases avoided; 8210 additional PNE cases avoided; 1459 additional cases of 
AOM avoided; and 378 additional deaths avoided. In all sensitivity analyses, 
PCV13 was less costly and more effective compared with PCV10.
CONCLUSIONS: In this analysis, a national immunization program with PCV13 was 
found to be good value for money and estimated to prevent additional cases of 
disease among children and nonvaccinated individuals and save additional costs 
due to treatment of pneumococcal disease, when compared with PCV10 in Denmark 
and Sweden.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.12.006
PMID: 23312274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Cell Metab. 2013 Jan 8;17(1):20-33. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.11.012.

Vascular complications of diabetes: mechanisms of injury and protective factors.

Rask-Madsen C(1), King GL.

Author information:
(1)Research Division, Joslin Diabetes Center, Boston, MA 02215, USA.

In patients with diabetes, atherosclerosis is the main reason for impaired life 
expectancy, and diabetic nephropathy and retinopathy are the largest 
contributors to end-stage renal disease and blindness, respectively. An improved 
therapeutic approach to combat diabetic vascular complications might include 
blocking mechanisms of injury as well as promoting protective or regenerating 
factors, for example by enhancing the action of insulin-regulated genes in 
endothelial cells, promoting gene programs leading to induction of antioxidant 
or anti-inflammatory factors, or improving the sensitivity to vascular cell 
survival factors. Such strategies could help prevent complications despite 
suboptimal metabolic control.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.11.012
PMCID: PMC3546345
PMID: 23312281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Cell Metab. 2013 Jan 8;17(1):101-12. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.12.006.

Adenosine nucleotide biosynthesis and AMPK regulate adult life span and mediate 
the longevity benefit of caloric restriction in flies.

Stenesen D(1), Suh JM, Seo J, Yu K, Lee KS, Kim JS, Min KJ, Graff JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas 75390, USA.

Comment in
    Cell Metab. 2013 Jan 8;17(1):5-6.

A common thread among conserved life span regulators lies within intertwined 
roles in metabolism and energy homeostasis. We show that heterozygous mutations 
of AMP biosynthetic enzymes extend Drosophila life span. The life span benefit 
of these mutations depends upon increased AMP:ATP and ADP:ATP ratios and 
adenosine monophosphate-activated protein kinase (AMPK). Transgenic expression 
of AMPK in adult fat body or adult muscle, key metabolic tissues, extended life 
span, while AMPK RNAi reduced life span. Supplementing adenine, a substrate for 
AMP biosynthesis, to the diet of long-lived AMP biosynthesis mutants reversed 
life span extension. Remarkably, this simple change in diet also blocked the 
prolongevity effects of dietary restriction. These data establish AMP 
biosynthesis, adenosine nucleotide ratios, and AMPK as determinants of adult 
life span; provide a mechanistic link between cellular anabolism and energy 
sensing pathways; and indicate that dietary adenine manipulations might alter 
metabolism to influence animal life span.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2012.12.006
PMCID: PMC3614013
PMID: 23312286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Proc Nutr Soc. 2013 May;72(2):246-50. doi: 10.1017/S0029665112003023. Epub
2013  Jan 14.

Nutrition and ageing: knowledge, gaps and research priorities.

Mathers JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Human Nutrition Research Centre, Centre for Brain Ageing and Vitality, 
Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle University, Campus for Ageing and 
Vitality, Newcastle upon Tyne NE4 5PL, UK. john.mathers@ncl.ac.uk

Over the past two centuries human life expectancy has increased by nearly 50 
years. Genetic factors account for about one-third of the variation in life 
expectancy so that most of the inter-individual variation in lifespan is 
explained by stochastic and environmental factors, including diet. In some model 
organisms, dietary (energy) restriction is a potent, and highly reproducible, 
means of increasing lifespan and of reducing the risk of age-related dysfunction 
although whether this strategy is effective in human subjects is unknown. This 
is ample evidence that the ageing process is plastic and research demonstrates 
that ageing is driven by the accumulation of molecular damage, which causes the 
changes in cell and tissue function that characterise the ageing phenotype. This 
cellular, tissue and organ damage results in the development of age-related 
frailty, disabilities and diseases. There are compelling observational data 
showing links between eating patterns, e.g., the Mediterranean dietary pattern, 
and ageing. In contrast, there is little empirical evidence that dietary changes 
can prolong healthy lifespan and there is even less information about the 
intervention modalities that can produce such sustainable dietary behaviour 
changes. In conclusion, current research needs include (1) a better 
understanding of the causal biological pathways linking diet with the ageing 
trajectory, (2) the development of lifestyle-based interventions, including 
dietary changes, which are effective in preventing age-related disease and 
disability and (3) the development of robust markers of healthy ageing, which 
can be used as surrogate outcome measures in the development and testing of 
dietary interventions designed to enhance health and well-being long into old 
age.

DOI: 10.1017/S0029665112003023
PMID: 23312402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Med Decis Making. 2013 May;33(4):521-32. doi: 10.1177/0272989X12470755. Epub 
2013 Jan 11.

Cost-effectiveness of adjuvant FOLFOX and 5FU/LV chemotherapy for patients with 
stage II colon cancer.

Ayvaci MU(1), Shi J(2), Alagoz O(3), Lubner SJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Information Systems and Operations Management, University of Texas at Dallas, 
Richardson, Texas (MA)
(2)China Minsheng Banking Corporation, Beijing, P.R. China (JS)
(3)Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering, University of 
Wisconsin–Madison, Madison, Wisconsin and Department of Industrial Engineering, 
Bilkent University, Ankara, Turkey (OA)
(4)Carbone Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Wisconsin–Madison, 
Madison, Wisconsin (SL)

PURPOSE: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy using 
5-fluorouracil, leucovorin (5FU/LV), and oxaliplatin (FOLFOX) compared with 
