

115. Public Health. 2013 Mar;127(3):290-1. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.12.002. Epub
2013  Jan 18.

Early death of Scots: vitamin D and sunlight levels the most compelling 
hypothesis.

Gillie O.

Comment in
    Public Health. 2013 Mar;127(3):292-4.

Comment on
    Public Health. 2012 Jun;126(6):459-70.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.12.002
PMID: 23337635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Exp Gerontol. 2013 Oct;48(10):1107-19. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.01.006.
Epub  2013 Jan 18.

Autophagy and leucine promote chronological longevity and respiration 
proficiency during calorie restriction in yeast.

Aris JP(1), Alvers AL, Ferraiuolo RA, Fishwick LK, Hanvivatpong A, Hu D, Kirlew 
C, Leonard MT, Losin KJ, Marraffini M, Seo AY, Swanberg V, Westcott JL, Wood MS, 
Leeuwenburgh C, Dunn WA Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anatomy and Cell Biology, University of Florida, Health Science 
Center, 1600 SW Archer Road, Gainesville, FL 32610-0235, United States. 
johnaris@ufl.edu

We have previously shown that autophagy is required for chronological longevity 
in the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae. Here we examine the requirements 
for autophagy during extension of chronological life span (CLS) by calorie 
restriction (CR). We find that autophagy is upregulated by two CR interventions 
that extend CLS: water wash CR and low glucose CR. Autophagy is required for 
full extension of CLS during water wash CR under all growth conditions tested. 
In contrast, autophagy was not uniformly required for full extension of CLS 
during low glucose CR, depending on the atg allele and strain genetic 
background. Leucine status influenced CLS during CR. Eliminating the leucine 
requirement in yeast strains or adding supplemental leucine to growth media 
extended CLS during CR. In addition, we observed that both water wash and low 
glucose CR promote mitochondrial respiration proficiency during aging of 
autophagy-deficient yeast. In general, the extension of CLS by water wash or low 
glucose CR was inversely related to respiration deficiency in 
autophagy-deficient cells. Also, autophagy is required for full extension of CLS 
under non-CR conditions in buffered media, suggesting that extension of CLS 
during CR is not solely due to reduced medium acidity. Thus, our findings show 
that autophagy is: (1) induced by CR, (2) required for full extension of CLS by 
CR in most cases (depending on atg allele, strain, and leucine availability) 
and, (3) promotes mitochondrial respiration proficiency during aging under CR 
conditions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.01.006
PMCID: PMC3728276
PMID: 23337777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Apr;82:134-46. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.12.022. Epub
2012  Dec 31.

Political conditions and life expectancy in Europe, 1900-2008.

Mackenbach JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, 
Netherlands. j.mackenbach@erasmusmc.nl

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 2013 Jun;86:103-6.

The rise of life expectancy in Europe has been a very uneven process, both in 
time and space. This paper aims to identify instances in which major political 
conditions are likely to have influenced the rise of life expectancy, focusing 
on formation and dissolution of states and supranational blocs and on 
differences between political regimes (democratic vs. authoritarian 
non-communist and communist rule). Data on life expectancy, cause-specific 
mortality and political conditions were compiled from existing data sources. 
Possible relations between political conditions and life expectancy were studied 
by direct comparisons of changes in life expectancy in countries with different 
political conditions but similar starting levels of life expectancy. We found 
that formation and dissolution of states often went together with convergence 
and divergence of life expectancy, respectively, and that otherwise similar 
countries that did or did not become part of the Soviet bloc had distinctly 
different life expectancy trajectories. Democratically governed states had 
higher life expectancies than authoritarian states throughout the 20th century. 
The gap narrowed between 1920 and 1960 due to rapid catching up of infectious 
disease control in both non-communist and communist authoritarian states. It 
widened again after 1960 due to earlier and more rapid progress in democratic 
states against cardiovascular disease, breast cancer, motor vehicle accidents 
and other causes of death that have become amenable to intervention. We conclude 
that the history of life expectancy in Europe contains many instances in which 
political conditions are likely to have had a temporary or more lasting impact 
on population health. This suggests that there is scope for further in-depth 
studies of the impact of specific political determinants on the development of 
population health in Europe.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.12.022
PMID: 23337831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2013 Mar;28(2):85-91. doi: 10.1097/HCO.0b013e32835dce2f.

Respiratory syncytial virus infections in infants and children with congenital 
heart disease: update on the evidence of prevention with palivizumab.

Resch B(1), Michel-Behnke I.

Author information:
(1)aResearch Unit for Neonatal Infectious Diseases and Epidemiology, Department 
of Pediatrics, Medical University of Graz, Graz, Austria. 
bernhard.resch@medunigraz.at

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Lower respiratory tract infections multiply morbidity and 
mortality within patients with significant congenital heart disease (CHD). For 
respiratory syncytial virus (RSV), one of the most important pathogens, 
immunoprophylaxis with palivizumab has successfully been introduced. The 
question is which patients will benefit most from this costly preventive 
treatment.
RECENT FINDINGS: The era after the introduction of palivizumab has revealed a 
steep decrease in mortality. The markers of success - hospital stays, admission 
to the intensive care unit, days on mechanical ventilation, and death - 
consistently favor immunoprophylaxis. The key point of treatment success remains 
in all cases a careful patient selection, adherence to a time limit of 30 days 
between the injections and early use after cardiac surgery with cardiopulmonary 
bypass, as well as avoidance of nosocomial-acquired infections. Preventive 
therapy with palivizumab in patients with CHD has been investigated in terms of 
operating efficiency - with the lowest costs per quality-adjusted life years 
compared with preterm infants with or without bronchopulmonary dysplasia.
SUMMARY: The burden of RSV disease will decline, once a vaccine is available. 
Meanwhile, immunoprophylaxis with palivizumab is a useful tool for high-risk 
patients to reduce comorbidity and fatal outcome. Pharmacoeconomic 
considerations measuring quality-adjusted life years indicate important 
information about cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1097/HCO.0b013e32835dce2f
PMID: 23337892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. CNS Drugs. 1997 Aug;8(2):163-88. doi: 10.2165/00023210-199708020-00010.

Paroxetine : a review of its pharmacology and therapeutic potential in the 
management of panic disorder.

Foster RH(1), Goa KL.

Author information:
(1)Adis International Limited, 41 Centorian Drive, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi 
Bay, Auckland 10, New Zealand, demail@adis.co.nz.

SYNOPSIS: Paroxetine is the first selective serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 
5-HT) reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) to be approved for the treatment of patients 
with panic disorder with or without agoraphobia. It is a highly selective 
inhibitor of presynaptic serotonin reuptake and does not interact with 
adrenergic, dopaminergic, histaminergic or serotonergic receptors to any 
significant extent. Oral paroxetine 10 to 60 mg/day is significantly more 
effective than placebo in reducing the frequency of panic attacks and improving 
associated symptoms, as shown in short term trials in patients with panic 
disorder with or without agoraphobia. The efficacy of the drug was maintained 
during up to 6 months'; treatment, and continued therapy reduced the risk of 
relapse. Oral paroxetine 10 to 60 mg/day was at least as effective as 
clomipramine 10 to 150 mg/day, but appeared to have a more rapid onset of 
effect, in a placebo-controlled trial. The tolerability profile of paroxetine is 
similar to that established for other SSRIs and is characterised by adverse 
events such as nausea, headache, somnolence, dry mouth, tremor, insomnia, 
asthenia, sweating, constipation, dizziness and sexual dysfunction. Paroxetine 
was better tolerated overall than clomipramine and was associated with a lower 
incidence of certain anticholinergic events (such as dry mouth and constipation) 
in a comparative trial. It is not associated with the type of dependence seen 
with benzodiazepines, and it appears to be safer in overdose than the tricyclic 
antidepressants. Paroxetine 20 or 30mg does not significantly impair psychomotor 
function or interact with alcohol (ethanol). In conclusion, the good 
tolerability profile of paroxetine, including lack of dependence potential and 
relative safety in overdose, makes it attractive for the treatment of patients 
with panic disorder. It appears to be at least as effective as clomipramine in 
reducing panic attacks and associated symptoms. Although further trials to 
compare the efficacy and tolerability of paroxetine with that of other tricyclic 
agents (especially Imipramine), high-potency benzodiazepines and monoamine 
oxidase inhibitors are needed, the drug appears to have the potential to become 
a first-line treatment for panic disorder.
PHARMACODYNAMIC PROPERTIES: Paroxetine increases serotonergic neurotransmission 
by inhibiting presynaptic reuptake of serotonin (5-hydroxytryptamine; 5-HT) and 
thereby increasing the level of the neurotransmitter at the synaptic cleft. In 
vitro, it is a more potent inhibitor of serotonin uptake than the selective 
serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) Citalopram, fluvoxamine and fluoxetine. 
Paroxetine was more potent than sertraline in one study that compared mean 
inhibition constants for serotonin uptake, but not in another study that 
compared the concentrations required to inhibit serotonin uptake by 50%. In 
contrast to the tricyclic antidepressants, paroxetine has little effect on the 
uptake of dopamine or noradrenaline (norepinephrine) in vitro. It has negligible 
affinity for αr(1-), αr(2-) and βr-adrenoceptors, dopamine D(1) and D(2) 
receptors, hi starnine H(1) receptors and serotonin 5-HT(1A), 5-HT(2A) and 
5-HT(2C) receptors. However, paroxetine does have weak affinity for muscarinic 
cholinergic receptors. As shown in rats, paroxetine appears to indirectly 
activate somatodendritic 5-HT(1A) autoreceptors when initially administered, 
thereby inhibiting firing of 5-HT neurons and release of serotonin. This may 
explain why the onset of therapeutic effect of paroxetine is delayed. However, 
repeated administration of paroxetine causes adaptive changes in synaptic 
serotonergic receptors, including a decrease in the responsiveness of 
somatodendritic and terminal serotonin autoreceptors. Central βr-adrenoceptors 
are not down-regulated by administration of paroxetine to rats. Various studies 
in healthy volunteers without sleep disorders or volunteers reporting poor sleep 
have indicated that paroxetine disturbs normal sleep patterns by reducing rapid 
eye movement (REM) sleep time and lengthening REM latency. The effect of 
paroxetine on sleep in patients with panic disorder has not been determined, but 
in patients with depression the drug improves subjective quality of sleep. In 
electroencephalographic studies in healthy volunteers, administration of a 
single dose of paroxetine 30mg produced changes indicative of a sedative 
profile, whereas administration of 70mg produced changes indicative of 
activating properties. No significant impairment of psychomotor function was 
observed after administration of single or multiple doses of paroxetine 20 or 
30mg to healthy volunteers or patients with depression. The sedation and 
impairment of psychomotor function caused by haloperidol, amobarbital, oxazepam 
or alcohol (ethanol) were not potentiated by the administration of paroxetine 
30mg. In contrast to amitriptyline 150 mg/day or doxepin 150 mg/day, 2 to 6 
weeks' treatment with paroxetine 20 or 30 mg/day did not produce clinically 
significant haemodynamic or electrophysiological effects on cardiac function in 
healthy volunteers or patients with depression. Fewer adverse cardiac effects 
were reported by paroxetine than nortriptyline recipients in a study in patients 
with depression and ischaemic heart disease. The anxiolytic activity of 
paroxetine has been demonstrated after 7 or 21 days' administration in several 
rodent models.
PHARMACOKINETIC PROPERTIES: Paroxetine is well absorbed after oral 
administration. It undergoes extensive first-pass metabolism and is rapidly 
distributed into tissue. Only about 1% of the paroxetine dose remains in the 
systemic circulation. Approximately 95% of paroxetine is protein bound in the 
plasma. Steady-state concentrations are reached after 7 to 14 days of oral 
administration and the terminal elimination half-life (t1/2βr) is approximately 
24 hours. However, there is a great deal of interindividual variation in the 
pharmacokinetics of paroxetine. Paroxetine is metabolised by at least 2 enzymes 
of the cytochrome P450 (CYP) system, one of which is CYP2D6. This enzyme is 
subject to genetic polymorphism, and thus the pharmacokinetics of paroxetine 
differ between individuals who have the enzyme (extensive metabolisers) and 
those who do not (poor metabolisers). The metabolites of paroxetine are 
essentially inactive. Metabolism of paroxetine by CYP2D6 is saturable. 
Consequently, with repeated administration, bioavailability of paroxetine 
increases and pharmacokinetics may become nonlinear in some patients, especially 
when the dosage of paroxetine is increased. Approximately two-thirds of a 
paroxetine dose is eliminated in the urine and the remainder is excreted in 
faeces. Almost all of the dose is eliminated as metabolites; lt3% is excreted as 
unchanged drug. The plasma concentration and area under the plasma 
concentration-time curve of paroxetine are greater, and the t1/2βr prolonged, in 
elderly patients and those with hepatic or severe renal impairment compared with 
the general population. Paroxetine distributes into breast milk to produce 
concentrations similar to those in plasma.
THERAPEUTIC POTENTIAL: As shown in 3 short term placebo-controlled trials in 
patients with panic disorder with or without agoraphobia, oral paroxetine 10 to 
60 mg/day is significantly more effective than placebo for most variables 
measuring reduction in panic attack frequency. The drug also produced 
significantly greater improvements in various anxiety and depression scales than 
placebo. An extension phase of one of the placebo-controlled studies showed that 
the efficacy of paroxetine in reducing panic attack frequency is maintained 
during up to 6 months' treatment and that the drug reduces the risk of relapse. 
Oral paroxetine 10 to 60 mg/day was at least as effective as clomipramine 10 to 
150 mg/day in a comparative study. During weeks 7 to 9 of treatment, 51% of 
paroxetine recipients had no full panic attacks, compared with 37% of 
clomipramine recipients. The onset of action appeared to be more rapid for 
paroxetine than for clomipramine. The 2 drugs were equally effective in 
improving generalised anxiety, phobic avoidance and social, family and work 
interactions. In patients who elected to continue treatment for a further 36 
weeks in an extension phase of the above study, response rates increased further 
in all groups, including the placebo group. During weeks 34 to 36 of extended 
treatment, 85% of paroxetine recipients, 72% of clomipramine recipients and 59% 
of placebo recipients had no panic attacks. The difference between paroxetine 
and placebo was statistically significant at this time point; however, there was 
no significant difference between groups at the primary efficacy endpoint (weeks 
22 to 24).
TOLERABILITY: Paroxetine is generally well tolerated by both younger and older 
individuals and its adverse event profile is consistent with that expected for 
an SSRI. The tolerability profile of paroxetine in patients with panic disorder 
appears to resemble that in patients with depression. Headache, nausea, 
somnolence, dry mouth and insomnia were the most common adverse events among 469 
patients with panic disorder who received paroxetine 10 to 60 mg/day in short 
term clinical trials. The individual incidences for these events ranged from 18 
to 25%; however, the incidence of headache in paroxetine-treated patients was 
the same as that in placebo recipients. (ABSTRACT TRUNCATED)

DOI: 10.2165/00023210-199708020-00010
PMID: 23338224


120. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2012 Nov;32(5):335-42. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892012001100003.

[Impact of homicide on male life expectancy in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

González-Pérez GJ(1), Vega-López MG, Cabrera-Pivaral CE.

Author information:
(1)Universidad de Guadalajara, México. ggonzal@cencar.udg.mx

OBJECTIVE: To determine the impact of homicide on male life expectancy in Mexico 
and its 32 states during the three-year periods 1998-2000 and 2008-2010 and the 
weight of the different age groups in years of life expectancy lost (YLEL) due 
to this cause.
METHODS: Based on official death and population data, abridged tables for male 
mortality in Mexico as a whole and its states were created for the three-year 
periods studied. Health-adjusted life expectancy and YLEL for men aged 15 to 75 
were calculated by selected causes (homicide, diabetes mellitus, and traffic 
accidents) and age groups in each three-year period.
RESULTS: In the years between the 1998-2000 and 2008-2010 periods, YLEL due to 
homicide increased both nationally and in 19 states. In four states, the YLEL in 
2008-2010 exceeded two, with the state of Chihuahua standing out at 5.2 years. 
In 14 of the 18 states where health-adjusted life expectancy among men declined 
between the two three-year periods, the YLEL due to homicide increased. From 
2008 to 2010, homicides were the leading cause of YLEL among men aged 20-44. 
YLEL due to homicide among those aged 15-44 increased between the two three-year 
periods.
CONCLUSIONS: The increase in the rate of homicidal violence, especially among 
young people, is impeding an increase in male life expectancy in Mexico. In 
several states, such as Chihuahua and Durango, this violence appears to be the 
main reason for the decline in life expectancy among men aged 15 to 75.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892012001100003
PMID: 23338690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2013 May;52(5):944-50. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kes400.  Epub 2013 Jan 21.

The relationship between EQ-5D, HAQ and pain in patients with rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Hernández Alava M(1), Wailoo A, Wolfe F, Michaud K.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK.

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to provide robust estimates of EQ-5D as a function of 
the HAQ and pain in patients with RA.
METHOD: Repeated observations were made of patients diagnosed with RA in a US 
observational cohort (n = 100 398 observations) who provided data on HAQ, pain 
on a visual analogue scale and the EQ-5D questionnaire. We used a bespoke 
statistical method based on mixture modelling to appropriately reflect the 
characteristics of the EQ-5D instrument and to compare this with results from 
standard multiple regression.
RESULTS: EQ-5D can be predicted from summary HAQ and pain scores. We identify 
four different classes of respondents who differ in terms of disease severity. 
Unlike the multiple regression, the mixture model exhibits very good fit to the 
data and does not suffer from problems of bias or predict values outside the 
feasible range.
CONCLUSION: It is appropriate to model the relationship between HAQ and EQ-5D 
but only if suitable statistical methods are applied. Linear models 
underestimate the quality-adjusted life year benefits, and therefore the 
cost-effectiveness, of therapies. The bespoke mixture model approach outlined 
here overcomes this problem. The addition of pain as an explanatory variable 
greatly improves the estimates. Reimbursement agencies rely on these types of 
analyses when formulating policy on the use of new drug therapies. Clinicians as 
well as economists should be concerned with these issues.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kes400
PMCID: PMC3630395
PMID: 23339232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. J Med Econ. 2013;16(4):510-21. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.768998. Epub 2013
Feb  12.

Prasugrel vs clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndrome undergoing 
percutaneous coronary intervention: a model-based cost-effectiveness analysis 
for Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, and Turkey.

Davies A(1), Bakhai A, Schmitt C, Barrett A, Graham-Clarke P, Sculpher M.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes Ltd, Oxford, UK. andy.davies@oxfordoutcomes.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term cost-effectiveness of 12-months treatment 
with prasugrel vs clopidogrel from four European healthcare systems' 
perspectives (Germany, Sweden, the Netherlands, and Turkey).
METHODS: In the TRITON-TIMI 38 trial, patients with an acute coronary syndrome 
(ACS) undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) were treated with 
prasugrel or clopidogrel. Prasugrel reduced the composite end-point 
(cardiovascular death, MI, or stroke), but increased TIMI major bleeding. A 
Markov model was constructed to facilitate a lifetime horizon for the analysis. 
A series of risk equations constructed using individual patient data from 
TRITON-TIMI 38 was used to estimate risks of clinical events. Quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) were derived by weighting survival time by estimates of 
health-related quality-of-life. Incremental cost-effectiveness is presented 
based on differences in treatments' mean costs and QALYs for the licensed 
population in TRITON-TIMI 38, and the sub-groups of UA-NSTEMI, STEMI, diabetes, 
and the 'core clinical cohort' (<75 years, ≥60 kg, no history of stroke or TIA).
RESULTS: Mean cost of study drug was €364 (Turkey) to €818 (Germany) higher for 
prasugrel vs clopidogrel. Rehospitalization costs at 12 months were lower for 
prasugrel due to reduced rates of revascularization, although hospitalization 
costs beyond 12 months were higher due to longer life expectancy associated with 
lower rates of non-fatal MI in the prasugrel group. The incremental cost per 
QALY saved with prasugrel in the licensed population ranged from €6520 (for 
Sweden) to €14,350 for (Germany). Prasugrel's cost per QALY was more favourable 
still in the STEMI and diabetes sub-groups of the licensed population.
LIMITATIONS: Probabilistic analyses of the whole trial population is impractical 
due to the number of individual patient profiles over which population level 
results are calculated.
CONCLUSION: Among patients undergoing PCI for ACS, treatment with prasugrel 
compared with clopidogrel resulted in favourable cost-effectiveness profiles 
from these healthcare systems' perspectives.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.768998
PMID: 23339464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Int J Equity Health. 2013 Jan 22;12:9. doi: 10.1186/1475-9276-12-9.

Assessing equity in health care through the national health insurance schemes of 
Nigeria and Ghana: a review-based comparative analysis.

Odeyemi IA(1), Nixon J.

Author information:
(1)Astellas Pharma UK Ltd, Staines, TW18 3AZ, UK. isaac.odeyemi@astellas.com

BACKGROUND: Nigeria and Ghana have recently introduced a National Health 
Insurance Scheme (NHIS) with the aim of moving towards universal health care 
using more equitable financing mechanisms. This study compares health and 
economic indicators, describes the structure of each country's NHIS within the 
wider healthcare system, and analyses impacts on equity in financing and access 
to health care.
METHODS: The World Bank and other sources were used to provide comparative 
health and economic data. Pubmed, Embase and EconLit were searched to locate 
studies providing descriptions of each NHIS and empirical evidence regarding 
equity in financing and access to health care. A diagrammatical representation 
of revenue-raising, pooling, purchasing and provision was produced in order to 
analyse the two countries' systems.
RESULTS: Over the period 2000-2010, Ghana maintained a marked advantage in life 
expectancy, infant mortality, under-5 year mortality, and has a lower burden of 
major diseases. Health care expenditure is about 5% of GDP in both countries but 
public expenditure in 2010 was 38% of total expenditure in Nigeria and 60% in 
Ghana. Financing and access are less equitable in Nigeria as, inter alia, 
private out-of-pocket expenditure has fallen from 80% to 66% of total spending 
in Ghana since the introduction of its NHIS but has remained at over 90% in 
Nigeria; NHIS membership in Nigeria and Ghana is approximately 3.5% and 65%, 
respectively; Nigeria offers a variable benefits package depending on membership 
category while Ghana has uniform benefits across all beneficiaries. Both 
countries exhibit improvements in equity but there is a pro-rich and pro-urban 
bias in membership.
CONCLUSIONS: Major health indicators are more favourable in Ghana and overall 
equity in financing and access are weaker in Nigeria. Nigeria is taking steps to 
expand NHIS membership and has potential to expand its public spending to 
achieve greater equity. However, heavy burdens of poverty, disease and remote 
settings make this a substantial challenge. Ghana's relative success has to be 
tempered by the high number of exemptions through taxation and the threat of 
moral hazard. The results and methods are anticipated to be informative for 
policy makers and researchers in both countries and other developing countries 
more widely.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-12-9
PMCID: PMC3626627
PMID: 23339606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Scand J Occup Ther. 2013 May;20(3):209-16. doi:
10.3109/11038128.2013.765033.  Epub 2013 Jan 23.

Chronic ventilation and social participation: experiences of men with 
neuromuscular disorders.

van Huijzen S(1), van Staa A.

Author information:
(1)Rotterdam University, Department of Occupational Therapy, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. s.s.van.huijzen@hr.nl

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to investigate how mechanical 
ventilation-dependent adults with neuromuscular disorders experience their 
occupational and social participation.
METHODS: Data were collected through two successive focus-group discussions with 
six men (aged 23-40 years) living in the same specialized nursing home in the 
Netherlands.
RESULTS: The results showed that the participants wanted to be involved in 
activities that provide interaction with others in society or community; they 
desired social participation. Thematic analysis brought out that the 
participants wanted to be taken seriously in all aspects of life. Four themes 
emerged: "Responsibility for risk-taking", "The influence of dependency", "Being 
treated as an employee", and "Maintaining optimism". These men appreciated good 
information from health care providers, wanted to have more autonomy in 
decision-making and risk-taking - and did not wish to be patronized. They wanted 
to have a social network to help them suction their tracheal cannula. Also, they 
would like activities at the activity centre to be more contributing to society 
and wished to be treated as employees rather than as clients. In view of their 
short life expectancy, they would also welcome discussions of end-of-life issues 
in group sessions led by a professional. Facilitating aspects of social 
participation, i.e. the experience of meaningful occupations in connection with 
autonomy and self-determination, would provide a more client-centred approach.

DOI: 10.3109/11038128.2013.765033
PMID: 23339717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Risk Anal. 2013 Sep;33(9):1710-27. doi: 10.1111/risa.12014. Epub 2013 Jan
22.

Salient beliefs about earthquake hazards and household preparedness.

Becker JS(1), Paton D, Johnston DM, Ronan KR.

Author information:
(1)GNS Science, P.O. Box 30368, Lower Hutt 5040, New Zealand; School of 
Psychology, Massey University, P.O. Box 756, Wellington 6140, New Zealand.

Prior research has found little or no direct link between beliefs about 
earthquake risk and household preparedness. Furthermore, only limited work has 
been conducted on how people's beliefs influence the nature and number of 
preparedness measures adopted. To address this gap, 48 qualitative interviews 
were undertaken with residents in three urban locations in New Zealand subject 
to seismic risk. The study aimed to identify the diverse hazard and 
preparedness-related beliefs people hold and to articulate how these are 
influenced by public education to encourage preparedness. The study also 
explored how beliefs and competencies at personal, social, and environmental 
levels interact to influence people's risk management choices. Three main 
categories of beliefs were found: hazard beliefs; preparedness beliefs; and 
personal beliefs. Several salient beliefs found previously to influence the 
preparedness process were confirmed by this study, including beliefs related to 
earthquakes being an inevitable and imminent threat, self-efficacy, outcome 
expectancy, personal responsibility, responsibility for others, and beliefs 
related to denial, fatalism, normalization bias, and optimistic bias. New 
salient beliefs were also identified (e.g., preparedness being a "way of life"), 
as well as insight into how some of these beliefs interact within the wider 
informational and societal context.

© 2013 Society for Risk Analysis.

DOI: 10.1111/risa.12014
PMID: 23339741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. EuroIntervention. 2013 Jan 22;8(9):1090-4. doi: 10.4244/EIJV8I9A166.

First-in-human use of the OneShot™ renal denervation system from Covidien.

Ormiston JA(1), Watson T, van Pelt N, Stewart R, Haworth P, Stewart JT, Webster 
MW.

Author information:
(1)Mercy Angiography, Newmarket 1023, Auckland, New Zealand. 
johno@mercyangiography.co.nz

Comment in
    EuroIntervention. 2013 Jan 22;8(9). pii: EIJV8I9A152. doi: 
10.4244/EIJV8I9A152.

Percutaneous transcatheter renal sympathetic denervation (RDN) is a promising 
treatment for refractory hypertension (HT). RDN was found in one series of 
clinical studies to reduce systolic blood pressure (SBP) by as much as a mean of 
30 mmHg with 85% of subjects experiencing sustained reductions of 10 mm or more 
out to two years after RDN. This degree of blood pressure reduction may reduce 
stroke and myocardial infarction rates and is anticipated to translate into 
improved life expectancy. The lowering of blood pressure by RDN has been shown 
to improve glycaemic control and reverse left ventricular hypertrophy. 
Beneficial effects on renal function, sleep apnoea and heart failure are 
suggested as well. This report describes the first patient treated using the 
OneShot™ Renal Denervation System (formerly Maya Medical now Covidien, Campbell, 
CA, USA).

DOI: 10.4244/EIJV8I9A166
PMID: 23339814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Curr Opin Clin Nutr Metab Care. 2013 May;16(3):298-309. doi: 
10.1097/MCO.0b013e32835e3643.

Hormonal and nutritional drivers of intrauterine growth.

Sferruzzi-Perri AN(1), Vaughan OR, Forhead AJ, Fowden AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Development and Neuroscience, Centre for 
Trophoblast Research, University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK. ans48@cam.ac.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Size at birth is critical in determining life expectancy with 
both small and large neonates at risk of shortened life spans. This review 
examines the hormonal and nutritional drivers of intrauterine growth with 
emphasis on the role of foetal hormones as nutritional signals in utero.
RECENT FINDINGS: Nutrients drive intrauterine growth by providing substrate for 
tissue accretion, whereas hormones regulate nutrient distribution between foetal 
oxidative metabolism and mass accumulation. The main hormonal drivers of 
intrauterine growth are insulin, insulin-like growth factors and thyroid 
hormones. Together with leptin and cortisol, these hormones control cellular 
nutrient uptake and the balance between accretion and differentiation in 
regulating tissue growth. They also act indirectly via the placenta to alter the 
materno-foetal supply of nutrients and oxygen. By responding to nutrient and 
oxygen availability, foetal hormones optimize the survival and growth of the 
foetus with respect to its genetic potential, particularly during adverse 
conditions. However, changes in the intrauterine growth of individual tissues 
may alter their function permanently.
SUMMARY: In both normal and compromised pregnancies, intrauterine growth is 
determined by multiple hormonal and nutritional drivers which interact to 
produce a specific pattern of intrauterine development with potential lifelong 
consequences for health.

DOI: 10.1097/MCO.0b013e32835e3643
PMID: 23340010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Acta Clin Belg. 2012 Nov-Dec;67(6):416-22. doi: 10.2143/ACB.67.6.2062706.

The cost-effectiveness of an extended course (12+12 weeks) of varenicline plus 
brief counselling compared with other reimbursed smoking cessation interventions 
in Belgium, from a public payer perspective.

Knight C(1), Marbaix S, Annemans L, Prignot J, Bowrin K.

Author information:
(1)HERON Evidence Development Ltd., Luton, UK. chris.knight@heronhealth.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of an extended (12+12 weeks) 
course of varenicline plus brief counselling compared with the currently 
reimbursed smoking cessation interventions (in combination with brief 
counselling) in Belgium, from a public payer perspective.
METHODS: The previously published version of the BENESCO model which included 
the extended course of varenicline was updated with recent publically available 
demographic and cost data from Belgium.
RESULTS: The extended course of varenicline plus brief counselling has an 
incremental cost per quality adjusted life year gained of 1101€ compared with a 
nonextended 12-week course of varenicline (plus brief counselling). The extended 
course of varenicline dominates all other comparators in this analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: The extended course of varenicline (12 weeks followed by 12 weeks 
maintenance therapy in successful quitters) plus brief counselling is a highly 
cost-effective alternative to a non-extended (12 weeks only) course of 
varenicline plus brief counselling. This strategy dominates the other 
alternative smoking cessation interventions currently reimbursed in Belgium.

DOI: 10.2143/ACB.67.6.2062706
PMID: 23340147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. 2013 Mar;22(2):185-92. doi: 
10.1097/MNH.0b013e32835ddb69.

Recent insights into life expectancy with and without dialysis.

Schell JO(1), Da Silva-Gane M, Germain MJ.

Author information:
(1)Section of Palliative Care and Medical Ethics, University of Pittsburgh 
School of Medicine, UPMC, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA. schelljo@upmc.edu

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Elderly patients comprise the fastest growing population 
initiating dialysis and also experience the worst outcomes, including increased 
mortality, loss of functional status, and impaired quality of life. 
Nephrologists are often challenged with how best to engage in dialysis 
decision-making discussions within this population. Prognostication tools can 
assist nephrologists in engaging in these discussions, especially in patients 
for whom survival benefits may be outweighed by the burdens of treatment.
RECENT FINDINGS: This review includes the latest research in the survival of 
elderly patients with and without dialysis; prognostic factors associated with 
renal progression and survival; and integrative prognostic models to predict 
both short-term and long-term prognosis. The concept of kidney illness disease 
trajectory is defined with important outcomes including survival, health-related 
quality of life, and symptoms with and without dialysis. This prognostic 
information will then be integrated into an individualized approach to shared 
decision-making regarding treatment decision-making.(Figure is included in 
full-text article.)
SUMMARY: Treatment decision-making for elderly patients with advanced kidney 
disease necessitates an active process between nephrologist and patient, 
incorporating medical information as well as patient preferences. Prognostic 
information and observational data can facilitate nephrologists' ability to 
foresee and foretell the illness trajectory both with and without dialysis, 
further guiding these conversations.

DOI: 10.1097/MNH.0b013e32835ddb69
PMID: 23340216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Obes Surg. 2013 Apr;23(4):460-6. doi: 10.1007/s11695-012-0816-8.

Gastric bypass is a cost-saving procedure: results from a comprehensive Markov 
model.

Faria GR(1), Preto JR, Costa-Maia J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, University of Porto, Porto, 
Portugal. gilrfaria@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Obesity is a growing public health problem in industrialized 
countries and is directly and indirectly responsible for almost 10% of all 
health expenditures. Bariatric surgery is the best available treatment, however, 
associated with important economical expenditures. So, cost-effectiveness 
analysis of the available surgical options is paramount.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model for three different strategies: best 
medical management, gastric band, and gastric bypass. The Markov model was 
constructed to allow for the evaluation of the impact of several obesity-related 
comorbidities. The results were derived for a representative population of 
morbidly obese patients, and subgroup analyses were performed for patients 
without comorbidities, patients with diabetes mellitus, different age, and body 
mass index (BMI) groups. Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed accounting 
for lifetime costs and from a societal perspective.
RESULTS: Gastric bypass is a dominant strategy, rendering a significant decrease 
in lifetime costs and increase in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Comparing 
with the best medical management, in the global population of patients with a 
BMI of > 35 kg/m2, gastric bypass renders 1.9 extra QALYs and saves on average 
13,244€ per patient. Younger patients, patients with a BMI between 40 and 50 
kg/m2, and patients without obesity-related diseases are the ones with a bigger 
benefit in terms of cost effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Gastric bypass surgery increases quality-adjusted survival and 
saves resources to health systems. As such, it can be an important process to 
control the ever-increasing health expenditure.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-012-0816-8
PMID: 23341033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Stem Cells Transl Med. 2013 Feb;2(2):129-35. doi: 10.5966/sctm.2012-0077.
Epub  2013 Jan 22.

Differentiation of CD133+ stem cells from amyotrophic lateral sclerosis patients 
into preneuron cells.

González-Garza MT(1), Martínez HR, Caro-Osorio E, Cruz-Vega DE, Hernández-Torre 
M, Moreno-Cuevas JE.

Author information:
(1)Cell Therapy Service, Centro de Inovacion y Transferencia en Salud (CITES), 
Tecnológico de Monterrey, Mexico. mtgonzalezgarza@itesm.mx

Improvements in quality of life and life expectancy have been observed in 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) patients transplanted with CD133(+) stem 
cells into their frontal motor cortices. However, questions have emerged about 
the capacity of cells from these patients to engraft and differentiate into 
neurons. The objective of this work was to evaluate the in vitro capacity of 
CD133(+) stem cells from 13 ALS patients to differentiate into neuron lineage. 
Stem cells were obtained through leukapheresis and cultured in a control medium 
or a neuroinduction medium for 2-48 hours. Expression of neuronal genes was 
analyzed by reverse transcription polymerase chain reaction (RT-PCR) and 
immunohistochemical techniques. Fluorescence microscopy demonstrated that 
CD133(+) stem cells from ALS patients incubated for 48 hours in a neuroinduction 
medium increased the detection of neuronal proteins such as nestin, β-tubulin 
III, neuronal-specific enolase, and glial fibrillary acidic protein. RT-PCR 
assays demonstrated an increase in the expression of β-tubulin III, nestin, 
Olig2, Islet-1, Hb9, and Nkx6.1. No correlation was found between age, sex, or 
ALS functional scale and the CD133(+) stem cell response to the neuroinduction 
medium. We conclude that CD133(+) stem cells from ALS patients, like the stem 
cells of healthy subjects, are capable of differentiating into preneuron cells.

DOI: 10.5966/sctm.2012-0077
PMCID: PMC3659759
PMID: 23341441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. BMJ. 2013 Jan 22;346:f331. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f331.

How long can we expect to live?

Appleby J(1).

Author information:
(1)King's Fund, London, UK. j.appleby@kingsfund.org.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f331
PMID: 23341569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e51990. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0051990. Epub 2013 Jan
16.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a national neonatal hearing screening program in 
China: conditions for the scale-up.

Tobe RG(1), Mori R, Huang L, Xu L, Han D, Shibuya K.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Shandong University, Jinan, Shandong Province, 
China.

BACKGROUND: In 2009, the Chinese Ministry of Health recommended scale-up of 
routine neonatal hearing screening - previously performed primarily only in 
select urban hospitals - throughout the entire country.
METHODS: A decision analytical model for a simulated population of all live 
births in china was developed to compare the costs and health effects of five 
mutually exclusive interventions: 1) universal screening using Otoacoustic 
Emission (OAE) and Automated Auditory Brainstem Response (AABR); 2) universal 
OAE; 3) targeted OAE and AABR; 4) targeted OAE; and 5) no screening. 
Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) were calculated for health effects.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: Based on the cost-effectiveness and potential health 
outcomes, the optimal path for scale-up would be to start with targeted OAE and 
then expand to universal OAE and universal OAE plus AABR. Accessibility of 
screening, diagnosis, and intervention services significantly affect decision of 
the options.
CONCLUSION: In conclusion, to achieve cost-effectiveness and best health 
outcomes of the NHS program, the accessibility of screening, diagnosis, and 
intervention services should be expanded to reach a larger population. The 
results are thus expected to be of particular benefit in terms of the 'rolling 
out' of the national plan.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0051990
PMCID: PMC3547019
PMID: 23341887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


134. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e53720. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053720. Epub 2013 Jan
16.

No major differences found between the effects of microwave-based and 
conventional heat treatment methods on two different liquid foods.

Géczi G(1), Horváth M, Kaszab T, Alemany GG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering, Institute for Environmental 
Engineering Systems, Faculty of Mechanical Engineering, Szent István University, 
Gödöllő, Hungary. geczi.gabor@gek.szie.hu

Extension of shelf life and preservation of products are both very important for 
the food industry. However, just as with other processes, speed and higher 
manufacturing performance are also beneficial. Although microwave heating is 
utilized in a number of industrial processes, there are many unanswered 
questions about its effects on foods. Here we analyze whether the effects of 
microwave heating with continuous flow are equivalent to those of traditional 
heat transfer methods. In our study, the effects of heating of liquid foods by 
conventional and continuous flow microwave heating were studied. Among other 
properties, we compared the stability of the liquid foods between the two heat 
treatments. Our goal was to determine whether the continuous flow microwave 
heating and the conventional heating methods have the same effects on the liquid 
foods, and, therefore, whether microwave heat treatment can effectively replace 
conventional heat treatments. We have compared the colour, separation phenomena 
of the samples treated by different methods. For milk, we also monitored the 
total viable cell count, for orange juice, vitamin C contents in addition to the 
taste of the product by sensory analysis. The majority of the results indicate 
that the circulating coil microwave method used here is equivalent to the 
conventional heating method based on thermal conduction and convection. However, 
some results in the analysis of the milk samples show clear differences between 
heat transfer methods. According to our results, the colour parameters 
(lightness, red-green and blue-yellow values) of the microwave treated samples 
differed not only from the untreated control, but also from the traditional heat 
treated samples. The differences are visually undetectable, however, they become 
evident through analytical measurement with spectrophotometer. This finding 
suggests that besides thermal effects, microwave-based food treatment can alter 
product properties in other ways as well.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053720
PMCID: PMC3547058
PMID: 23341982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: During the course of this 
study, the authors have received funding from three commercial sources (Gramex 
2000 Kft, Új Mező Kft and Livestock Performance Testing Ltd.) in the form of 
access to research materials and/or services without charge. This does not alter 
the authors′ adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and 
materials.


135. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e53726. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053726. Epub 2013 Jan
16.

Comparative demography of an at-risk African elephant population.

Wittemyer G(1), Daballen D, Douglas-Hamilton I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Fish, Wildlife and Conservation Biology, Colorado State 
University, Fort Collins, Colorado, United States of America. 
g.wittemyer@colostate.edu

Knowledge of population processes across various ecological and management 
settings offers important insights for species conservation and life history. In 
regard to its ecological role, charisma and threats from human impacts, African 
elephants are of high conservation concern and, as a result, are the focus of 
numerous studies across various contexts. Here, demographic data from an 
individually based study of 934 African elephants in Samburu, Kenya were 
summarized, providing detailed inspection of the population processes 
experienced by the population over a fourteen year period (including the 
repercussions of recent increases in illegal killing). These data were compared 
with those from populations inhabiting a spectrum of xeric to mesic ecosystems 
with variable human impacts. In relation to variability in climate and human 
impacts (causing up to 50% of recorded deaths among adults), annual mortality in 
Samburu fluctuated between 1 and 14% and, unrelatedly, natality between 2 and 
14% driving annual population increases and decreases. Survivorship in Samburu 
was significantly lower than other populations with age-specific data even 
during periods of low illegal killing by humans, resulting in relatively low 
life expectancy of males (18.9 years) and females (21.8 years). Fecundity 
(primiparous age and inter-calf interval) were similar to those reported in 
other human impacted or recovering populations, and significantly greater than 
that of comparable stable populations. This suggests reproductive effort of 
African savanna elephants increases in relation to increased mortality (and 
resulting ecological ramifications) as predicted by life history theory. Further 
comparison across populations indicated that elongated inter-calf intervals and 
older ages of reproductive onset were related to age structure and density, and 
likely influenced by ecological conditions. This study provides detailed 
empirical data on elephant population dynamics strongly influenced by human 
impacts (laying the foundation for modeling approaches), supporting predictions 
of evolutionary theory regarding demographic responses to ecological processes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0053726
PMCID: PMC3547063
PMID: 23341984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


136. Toxins (Basel). 2012 Dec;4(12):1415-26. doi: 10.3390/toxins4121415.

Cost-effectiveness of treating upper limb spasticity due to stroke with 
botulinum toxin type A: results from the botulinum toxin for the upper limb 
after stroke (BoTULS) trial.

Shackley P(1), Shaw L, Price C, van Wijck F, Barnes M, Graham L, Ford GA, Steen 
N, Rodgers H.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 
30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. p.shackley@sheffield.ac.uk

Stroke imposes significant burdens on health services and society, and as such 
there is a growing need to assess the cost-effectiveness of stroke treatment to 
ensure maximum benefit is derived from limited resources. This study compared 
the cost-effectiveness of treating post-stroke upper limb spasticity with 
botulinum toxin type A plus an upper limb therapy programme against the therapy 
programme alone. Data on resource use and health outcomes were prospectively 
collected for 333 patients with post-stroke upper limb spasticity taking part in 
a randomized trial and combined to estimate the incremental cost per quality 
adjusted life year (QALY) gained of botulinum toxin type A plus therapy relative 
to therapy alone. The base case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of 
botulinum toxin type A plus therapy was £93,500 per QALY gained. The probability 
of botulinum toxin type A plus therapy being cost-effective at the England and 
Wales cost-effectiveness threshold value of £20,000 per QALY was 0.36. The point 
estimates of the ICER remained above £20,000 per QALY for a range of sensitivity 
analyses, and the probability of botulinum toxin type A plus therapy being 
cost-effective at the threshold value did not exceed 0.39, regardless of the 
assumptions made.

DOI: 10.3390/toxins4121415
PMCID: PMC3528253
PMID: 23342679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. N Engl J Med. 2013 Jan 24;368(4):341-50. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsa1211128.

21st-century hazards of smoking and benefits of cessation in the United States.

Jha P(1), Ramasundarahettige C, Landsman V, Rostron B, Thun M, Anderson RN, 
McAfee T, Peto R.

Author information:
(1)Center for Global Health Research, Toronto, ON M5C 1N8, Canada.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Jan 24;368(4):389-90.
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2013 Mar;10(3):117.

BACKGROUND: Extrapolation from studies in the 1980s suggests that smoking causes 
25% of deaths among women and men 35 to 69 years of age in the United States. 
Nationally representative measurements of the current risks of smoking and the 
benefits of cessation at various ages are unavailable.
METHODS: We obtained smoking and smoking-cessation histories from 113,752 women 
and 88,496 men 25 years of age or older who were interviewed between 1997 and 
2004 in the U.S. National Health Interview Survey and related these data to the 
causes of deaths that occurred by December 31, 2006 (8236 deaths in women and 
7479 in men). Hazard ratios for death among current smokers, as compared with 
those who had never smoked, were adjusted for age, educational level, adiposity, 
and alcohol consumption.
RESULTS: For participants who were 25 to 79 years of age, the rate of death from 
any cause among current smokers was about three times that among those who had 
never smoked (hazard ratio for women, 3.0; 99% confidence interval [CI], 2.7 to 
3.3; hazard ratio for men, 2.8; 99% CI, 2.4 to 3.1). Most of the excess 
mortality among smokers was due to neoplastic, vascular, respiratory, and other 
diseases that can be caused by smoking. The probability of surviving from 25 to 
79 years of age was about twice as great in those who had never smoked as in 
current smokers (70% vs. 38% among women and 61% vs. 26% among men). Life 
expectancy was shortened by more than 10 years among the current smokers, as 
compared with those who had never smoked. Adults who had quit smoking at 25 to 
34, 35 to 44, or 45 to 54 years of age gained about 10, 9, and 6 years of life, 
respectively, as compared with those who continued to smoke.
CONCLUSIONS: Smokers lose at least one decade of life expectancy, as compared 
with those who have never smoked. Cessation before the age of 40 years reduces 
the risk of death associated with continued smoking by about 90%.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsa1211128
PMID: 23343063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. N Engl J Med. 2013 Jan 24;368(4):389-90. doi: 10.1056/NEJMe1213751.

New evidence that cigarette smoking remains the most important health hazard.

Schroeder SA.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2013 May 2;368(18):1752-3.
    N Engl J Med. 2013 May 2;368(18):1753.
    N Engl J Med. 2013 May 2;368(18):1753-4.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Jan 24;368(4):341-50.
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Jan 24;368(4):351-64.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMe1213751
PMID: 23343069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
