protection in specific modalities - radiography and fluoroscopy, interventional 
radiology, and computed tomography - are subsequently covered in depth. The 
report concludes with a summary and recommendations. The importance of rigorous 
justification of radiological procedures is emphasised for every procedure 
involving ionising radiation, and the use of imaging modalities that are 
non-ionising should always be considered. The basic aim of optimisation of 
radiological protection is to adjust imaging parameters and institute protective 
measures such that the required image is obtained with the lowest possible dose 
of radiation, and that net benefit is maximised to maintain sufficient quality 
for diagnostic interpretation. Special consideration should be given to the 
availability of dose reduction measures when purchasing new imaging equipment 
for paediatric use. One of the unique aspects of paediatric imaging is with 
regards to the wide range in patient size (and weight), therefore requiring 
special attention to optimisation and modification of equipment, technique, and 
imaging parameters. Examples of good radiographic and fluoroscopic technique 
include attention to patient positioning, field size and adequate collimation, 
use of protective shielding, optimisation of exposure factors, use of pulsed 
fluoroscopy, limiting fluoroscopy time, etc. Major paediatric interventional 
procedures should be performed by experienced paediatric interventional 
operators, and a second, specific level of training in radiological protection 
is desirable (in some countries, this is mandatory). For computed tomography, 
dose reduction should be optimised by the adjustment of scan parameters (such as 
mA, kVp, and pitch) according to patient weight or age, region scanned, and 
study indication (e.g. images with greater noise should be accepted if they are 
of sufficient diagnostic quality). Other strategies include restricting 
multiphase examination protocols, avoiding overlapping of scan regions, and only 
scanning the area in question. Up-to-date dose reduction technology such as tube 
current modulation, organ-based dose modulation, auto kV technology, and 
iterative reconstruction should be utilised when appropriate. It is anticipated 
that this publication will assist institutions in encouraging the 
standardisation of procedures, and that it may help increase awareness and 
ultimately improve practices for the benefit of patients.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.icrp.2012.10.001
PMID: 23218172 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. J Fluency Disord. 2012 Dec;37(4):300-13. doi: 10.1016/j.jfludis.2012.04.005.
 Epub 2012 May 10.

A welfare economic approach to measure outcomes in stuttering: comparing 
willingness to pay and quality adjusted life years.

Franic DM(1), Bothe AK, Bramlett RE.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Clinical and Administrative Pharmacy, RC Wilson Building Room 260N, 
The University of Georgia, 250 W Green St, Athens, GA 30602-2354, USA. 
dfranic@rx.uga.edu

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to compare two welfare outcome measures, 
willingness to pay (WTP) and quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained, to 
measure outcomes in stuttering.
METHOD: Seventy-eight adult participants (74 nonstuttering and 4 persons with 
stuttering) completed one face-to-face structured interview regarding how much 
they would be willing to pay to alleviate severe stuttering in three 
interventions of varying impact. These data were compared with QALYs gained as 
calculated from time trade off (TTO) and standard gamble (SG) data.
RESULTS: Mean (median) WTP bids ranged from US $16,875 (8000), for an 
intervention resulting in improvement from severe stuttering to mild stuttering, 
to US $41,844 (10,000) for an intervention resulting in a cure of severe 
stuttering. These data were consistent with mean changes in QALYs for the same 
stuttering interventions ranging from 2.19 (using SG) to 18.42 (using TTO).
CONCLUSIONS: This study presents the first published WTP and QALY data for 
stuttering. Results were consistent with previous cost-of-illness data for 
stuttering. Both WTP and QALY measures were able to quantify the reduction in 
quality of life that occurs in stuttering, and both can be used to compare the 
gains that might be achieved by different interventions. It is widely believed 
that stuttering can cause reduced quality of life for some speakers; the 
introduction into this field of standardized metrics for measuring quality of 
life is a necessary step for transparently weighing the costs and consequences 
of stuttering interventions in economic analyses.
EDUCATIONAL OBJECTIVES: The reader will be able to (a) describe the underlying 
theoretical foundations for willingness to pay and quality adjusted life years, 
(b) describe the application of willingness to pay and quality adjusted life 
years for use in economic analyses, (c) compare and contrast the value of 
willingness to pay and quality adjusted life years in measuring the impact of 
stuttering treatment on quality of life, (d) interpret quality adjusted life 
years, and (e) interpret willingness to pay data.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfludis.2012.04.005
PMID: 23218213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Cancer Radiother. 2013 Feb;17(1):1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2012.10.009.
Epub  2012 Dec 3.

[Intensity modulated radiotherapy for head and neck cancers: ethics and patients 
selection].

[Article in French]

Renard-Oldrini S(1), Zielinski A, Mecellem H, Graff P, Marchesi V, Peiffert D.

Author information:
(1)Service de radiothérapie, centre Alexis-Vautrin, avenue de Bourgogne, 54500 
Vandœuvre-lès-Nancy, France. s.renard@nancy.unicancer.fr

PURPOSE: Intensity modulated radiotherapy (IMRT) allows a better coverage of the 
target volume and a better saving of organs at risk with a decrease of toxicity 
in head and neck cancers. It requires more human labor and materials compared to 
conformational radiotherapy. If they are insufficient, a selection of the 
patients receiving IMRT may be necessary, raising an ethical problem.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We collected the motives guiding the choice of the 
technique of radiotherapy for head and neck cancers during a month of 
physicists' shortage.
RESULTS: Nineteen patients received IMRT and eight conformational radiotherapy. 
Conformational irradiation was chosen in palliative and postsurgery treatments, 
to reduce delay, in laryngeal tumors and re-irradiation. IMRT was preferred for 
complex target volumes and the localizations at risk of important xerostomia 
following conformational radiotherapy. These choices were confronted with the 
bioethics criteria of Beauchamp and Childress. The beneficence justified the use 
of IMRT or conformational radiotherapy depending on the circumstances. The 
non-maleficence attempted to decrease the toxicity with IMRT. Justice was 
questioned by the selection. The autonomy of patients was not totally respected 
in the choice.
CONCLUSION: To help in the choice of the patients receiving an IMRT in a crisis 
situation, we proposed a hierarchical organization of selection criteria: 
complex volumes close to critical organs at risk, localization with high risk of 
xerostomia, long life expectancy and postoperative delay constraints.

Copyright © 2012 Société française de radiothérapie oncologique (SFRO). 
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2012.10.009
PMID: 23219137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. J Urol. 2013 Jun;189(6):2092-8. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2012.11.174. Epub 2012
Dec  3.

Clinical implementation of quality of life instruments and prediction tools for 
localized prostate cancer: results from a national survey of radiation 
oncologists and urologists.

Kim SP(1), Karnes RJ, Nguyen PL, Ziegenfuss JY, Han LC, Thompson RH, Trinh QD, 
Sun M, Boorjian SA, Beebe TJ, Tilburt JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota 55905, USA.

PURPOSE: Although clinical guidelines recommend assessing quality of life, 
cancer aggressiveness and life expectancy for making localized prostate cancer 
treatment decisions, it is unknown whether instruments that objectively measure 
such outcomes have disseminated into clinical practice. In this context we 
determined whether quality of life and prediction instruments for prostate 
cancer have been adopted by radiation oncologists and urologists in the United 
States.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using a nationally representative mail survey of 1,422 
prostate cancer specialists in the United States, we queried about self-reported 
clinical implementation of quality of life instruments, prostate cancer 
nomograms and life expectancy prediction tools in late 2011. The Pearson 
chi-square test and multivariate logistic regression were used to determine 
differences in the use of each instrument by physician characteristics.
RESULTS: A total of 313 radiation oncologists and 328 urologists completed the 
survey for a 45% response rate. Although 55% of respondents reported using 
prostate cancer nomograms, only 27% and 23% reported using quality of life and 
life expectancy prediction instruments, respectively. On multivariate analysis 
urologists were less likely to use quality of life instruments than radiation 
oncologists (OR 0.40, p <0.001). Physicians who spent 30 minutes or more 
counseling patients were consistently more likely to use quality of life 
instruments (OR 2.57, p <0.001), prostate cancer nomograms (OR 1.83, p = 0.009) 
and life expectancy prediction tools (OR 1.85, p = 0.02) than those who spent 
less than 15 minutes.
CONCLUSIONS: Although prostate cancer nomograms have been implemented into 
clinical practice to some degree, the use of quality of life and life expectancy 
tools has been more limited. Increased attention to implementing validated 
instruments into clinical practice may facilitate shared decision making for 
patients with prostate cancer.

Copyright © 2013 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2012.11.174
PMID: 23219546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Physiotherapy. 2013 Sep;99(3):194-200. doi: 10.1016/j.physio.2012.06.006.
Epub  2012 Oct 18.

Musculoskeletal fitness and health-related quality of life characteristics among 
sedentary office workers affected by sub-acute, non-specific low back pain: a 
cross-sectional study.

del Pozo-Cruz B(1), Gusi N, Adsuar JC, del Pozo-Cruz J, Parraca JA, 
Hernandez-Mocholí M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Sports Science, University of Extremadura, Caceres, Spain. 
borjadelpozo@unex.es

OBJECTIVES: To establish the level of musculoskeletal fitness and health-related 
quality of life (HRQoL) in sedentary office workers with sub-acute, non-specific 
low back pain, and compare the results with reference data for healthy sedentary 
office workers.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Occupational secondary prevention setting.
PARTICIPANTS: One-hundred and ninety sedentary office workers: 118 suffering 
from sub-acute, non-specific low back pain (47 men and 71 women) and 72 
age-matched healthy controls (30 men and 42 women).
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Participants were assessed using a musculoskeletal 
fitness battery (sit-and-reach test, hand grip strength, lumbar and abdominal 
trunk muscle endurance, and back scratch test), the EuroQol-5D-3L, Oswestry 
Disability Questionnaire, and Roland Morris Disability Questionnaire. Data for 
both genders and conditions were compared.
RESULTS: Subjects with low back pain achieved lower scores in most of the 
fitness tests compared with healthy, age-matched controls. Trunk flexor and 
extensor endurance demonstrated the greatest difference in both men {flexion: 
median difference 59 [95% confidence interval (CI) 26 to 90]seconds; extension: 
median difference 24 [95% CI 20 to 68]} and women [flexion: median difference 59 
(95% CI 5 to 85.50)seconds; extension: median difference 41 (95% CI 30 to 
55)seconds]. Differences in HRQoL were also demonstrated between groups for both 
men and women, with the exception of the pain/discomfort dimension in women.
CONCLUSIONS: Sedentary office workers with sub-acute, non-specific low back pain 
had lower musculoskeletal fitness than healthy, age-matched controls, with the 
main difference found in endurance of the trunk muscles. HRQoL was also lower in 
workers with low back pain.

Copyright © 2012 Chartered Society of Physiotherapy. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.physio.2012.06.006
PMID: 23219627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. BMJ Case Rep. 2012 Dec 6;2012:bcr0620114381. doi: 10.1136/bcr-06-2011-4381.

Longevity and Patau syndrome: what determines survival?

Peroos S(1), Forsythe E, Pugh JH, Arthur-Farraj P, Hodes D.

Author information:
(1)University College London, London, UK. s.peroos@doctors.org.uk

The authors report of an 8-year-old girl with non-mosaic Patau syndrome. The 
median life expectancy of Patau syndrome is 7-10 days, and 90% die in the first 
year of life. Survival is often attributed to mosaicism and the severity of 
associated malformations. We delineate the developing phenotype and review the 
literature discussing potential contributory factors to longevity.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-06-2011-4381
PMCID: PMC4543265
PMID: 23220825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Curr Opin Infect Dis. 2013 Feb;26(1):17-25. doi:
10.1097/QCO.0b013e32835ba6b1.

Life expectancy living with HIV: recent estimates and future implications.

Nakagawa F(1), May M, Phillips A.

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Infection and Population Health, UCL, London, UK. 
f.nakagawa@ucl.ac.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The life expectancy of people living with HIV has 
dramatically increased since effective antiretroviral therapy has been 
available, and still continues to improve. Here, we review the latest literature 
on estimates of life expectancy and consider the implications for future 
research.
RECENT FINDINGS: With timely diagnosis, access to a variety of current drugs and 
good lifelong adherence, people with recently acquired infections can expect to 
have a life expectancy which is nearly the same as that of HIV-negative 
individuals. Modelling studies suggest that life expectancy could improve 
further if there were increased uptake of HIV testing, better antiretroviral 
regimens and treatment strategies, and the adoption of healthier lifestyles by 
those living with HIV. In particular, earlier diagnosis is one of the most 
important factors associated with better life expectancy. A consequence of 
improved survival is the increasing number of people with HIV who are aged over 
50 years old, and further research into the impact of ageing on HIV-positive 
people will therefore become crucial. The development of age-specific HIV 
treatment and management guidelines is now called for.
SUMMARY: Analyses on cohort studies and mathematical modelling studies have been 
used to estimate life expectancy of those with HIV, providing useful insights of 
importance to individuals and healthcare planning.

DOI: 10.1097/QCO.0b013e32835ba6b1
PMID: 23221765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2013 Jun-Jul;34(6):1227-31. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A3353.
Epub  2012 Dec 6.

Effect of endovascular treatment on headache in elderly patients with unruptured 
intracranial aneurysms.

Gu DQ(1), Duan CZ, Li XF, He XY, Lai LF, Su SX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Neurosurgery Institute, Key Laboratory on Brain 
Function Repair and Regeneration of Guangdong, Zhujiang Hospital, Southern 
Medical University, Guangzhou, Guangdong, China.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The incidence of unruptured intracranial aneurysms is 
increasing in the elderly population as life expectancy increases, and patients 
often present with headache. The goal of this study was to determine the effect 
of endovascular treatment on headache and identify factors associated with 
headache outcome in elderly patients with unruptured intracranial aneurysms.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective study was conducted for elderly patients 
(≥ 65 years old) being treated for unruptured intracranial aneurysms. Headache 
assessment was performed by a quantitative 11-point headache scale in all 
patients before and after endovascular treatment. Factors associated with 
headache outcome were investigated by univariate analyses.
RESULTS: A total of 72 patients (mean age, 70.0 years; age range, 65-80 years; 
41 women) fulfilled the inclusion criteria. There were 52 patients (72.2%) who 
presented with preoperative headache (headache score ≥ 1). Among them, 40 
(76.9%) reported that headache score had an improvement according to their 
self-reported quantitative headache score after endovascular treatment. The 
average headache score was 5.63 preoperatively vs 2.50 postoperatively (P = 
.000). Twenty patients (27.8%) had no headache before treatment (headache score 
= 0), of whom 2 (10.0%) reported new onset of headache postoperatively. Only a 
preoperative headache score was associated with treatment outcome of headache, 
and a higher headache score predicted a lack of headache relief after 
endovascular treatment (P = .003).
CONCLUSIONS: Endovascular coiling of unruptured intracranial aneurysms resulted 
in relief of headache in most of the elderly patients. Preoperative headache 
score was the only statistically significant predictor of headache outcome.

DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A3353
PMCID: PMC7964566
PMID: 23221953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Proc Biol Sci. 2012 Dec 5;280(1752):20122540. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2012.2540.
Print  2013 Feb 7.

Telomere length reflects phenotypic quality and costs of reproduction in a 
long-lived seabird.

Bauch C(1), Becker PH, Verhulst S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Avian Research Vogelwarte Helgoland, An der Vogelwarte 21, 26386 
Wilhelmshaven, Germany.

Telomere length is associated with cellular senescence, lifestyle and ageing. 
Short telomeres indicate poor health in humans and reduced life expectancy in 
several bird species, but little is known about telomeres in relation to 
phenotypic quality in wild animals. We investigated telomere lengths in 
erythrocytes of known-age common terns (Sterna hirundo), a migratory seabird, in 
relation to arrival date and reproductive performance. Cross-sectional data 
revealed that, independent of age, individuals with short telomeres performed 
better: they arrived and reproduced earlier in the season and had more chicks in 
the nest. The latter effect was stronger the older the brood and stronger in 
males, which do most of the chick provisioning. Longitudinal data confirmed this 
pattern: compared with birds that lost their brood, birds that raised chicks 
beyond the 10th nestling day experienced higher telomere attrition from one year 
to the next. However, more detailed analysis revealed that the least and most 
successful individuals lost the fewest base pairs compared with birds with 
intermediate success. Our results suggest that reproductive success is achieved 
at the expense of telomeres, but that individual heterogeneity in susceptibility 
to such detrimental effects is important, as indicated by low telomere loss in 
the most successful birds.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2012.2540
PMCID: PMC3574312
PMID: 23222450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Eye (Lond). 2013 Feb;27(2):137-41. doi: 10.1038/eye.2012.252. Epub 2012 Dec
7.

Ocular metastases.

Cohen VM(1).

Author information:
(1)Ocular Oncology Service, Moorefield's and St Bartholomew's Hospital, London, 
UK. victoria.cohen@bartshealth.nhs.uk

The eye is a rare site for disseminated malignancy because of the absence of a 
lymphatic system. Metastases to the ocular structures occur by haematogenous 
spread and therefore the parts of the eye with the best vascular supply are most 
likely to be affected. Many patients with Stage 4 carcinomatosis (distal 
metastatic spread) already have a history of a previous primary cancer. However, 
this is not always the case for lung cancer as this can metastasise early to the 
uveal tract and therefore the ophthalmologist may be the first to discover the 
presence of terminal metastatic disease. Broadly speaking, treatment options are 
focused on improving the patients' quality of life if visual acuity is 
threatened. Long-term side effects of treatment need to be considered as 
systemic cancer treatments and therefore patient life expectancy is improving. 
In this manuscript, presented at the Cambridge symposium 2012, the diagnosis and 
challenges involved in the management of ocular metastases are presented.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2012.252
PMCID: PMC3574252
PMID: 23222564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):S1. doi: 10.1038/492S1a.

Ageing.

Grayson M.

DOI: 10.1038/492S1a
PMID: 23222665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Nature. 2012 Dec 6;492(7427):S2-3. doi: 10.1038/492S2a.

Demography: To the limit.

Scully T.

DOI: 10.1038/492S2a
PMID: 23222671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Nurs Res. 2013 Jan-Feb;62(1):59-65. doi: 10.1097/NNR.0b013e31827614fd.

Strategies used and data obtained during treatment fidelity monitoring.

Carpenter JS(1), Burns DS, Wu J, Yu M, Ryker K, Tallman E, Von Ah D.

Author information:
(1)Center for Enhancing Quality of Life, School of Nursing, Indiana University, 
Indianapolis, IN 46202, USA. carpentj@iupui.edu

BACKGROUND: Treatment fidelity, also called intervention fidelity, is an 
important component of testing treatment efficacy. Although examples of 
strategies needed to address treatment fidelity have been provided in several 
published reports, data describing variations that might compromise efficacy 
testing have been omitted.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study is to describe treatment fidelity monitoring 
strategies and data within the context of a nursing clinical trial.
METHODS: A three-group, randomized, controlled trial compared intervention 
(paced respiration) to attention control (fast, shallow breathing) to usual care 
for management of hot flashes and other menopausal symptoms. Data from both 
staff and participants were collected to assess treatment fidelity.
RESULTS: Staff measures for treatment delivery indicated good adherence to 
protocols. Participant ratings of expectancy and credibility were not 
statistically different between intervention and attention control; however, the 
attention control was significantly more acceptable (p < .05). Intervention 
participant data indicated good treatment receipt and enactment with mean breath 
rates at each time point falling within the target range. Practice log data for 
both intervention and attention control indicated lower adherence of once-daily 
rather than twice-daily practice.
DISCUSSION: Despite strengths in fidelity monitoring, some challenges were 
identified that have implications for other similar intervention studies.

DOI: 10.1097/NNR.0b013e31827614fd
PMCID: PMC3523275
PMID: 23222844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. J Nutr. 2013 Jan;143(1):59-66. doi: 10.3945/jn.112.166694. Epub 2012 Dec 5.

The cost-effectiveness of mandatory folic acid fortification in Australia.

Rabovskaja V(1), Parkinson B, Goodall S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, University of 
Technology, Sydney, Australia. rabovskaja@yahoo.de

The Australian government recently introduced mandatory folic acid fortification 
of bread to reduce the incidence of neural tube defects (NTDs). The economic 
evaluation of this policy contained a number of limitations. This study aimed to 
address the limitations and to reconsider the findings. Cost-effectiveness 
analysis was used to assess the cost and benefits of mandatory versus voluntary 
folic acid fortification. Outcomes measures were quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs), life-years gained (LYG), avoided NTD cases, and additional severe 
neuropathy cases. Costs considered included industry costs and regulatory costs 
to the government. It was estimated that mandatory fortification would prevent 
31 NTDs, whereas an additional 14 cases of severe neuropathy would be incurred. 
Overall, 539 LYG and 503 QALYs would be gained per year of mandatory compared 
with voluntary fortification. Mandatory fortification was cost-effective at 
A$10,723 per LYG and at A$11,485 per QALY. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
showed that at A$60,000 and A$151,000 per QALY, the probability that mandatory 
fortification was the most cost-effective strategy was 79% and 85%, 
respectively. Threshold analysis of loss of consumer choice indicated that with 
a compensation value above A$1.21 [assuming a willingness to pay (WTP) threshold 
of A$60,000 per QALY] or A$3.19 (assuming a WTP threshold of A$151,000 per 
statistical life-year) per capita per year mandatory fortification would not be 
cost-effective. Mandatory fortification was found to be cost-effective; however, 
inclusion of the loss of consumer choice can change this result. Even with 
mandatory fortification, mean folate intake will remain below the recommended 
NTD preventive level.

DOI: 10.3945/jn.112.166694
PMID: 23223683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Qual Life Res. 2013 Nov;22(9):2293-305. doi: 10.1007/s11136-012-0321-5. Epub
 2012 Dec 8.

Quality-of-life loss of people admitted to burn centers, United States.

Miller T(1), Bhattacharya S, Zamula W, Lezotte D, Kowalske K, Herndon D, 
Fauerbach J, Engrav L.

Author information:
(1)Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, Calverton, MD, USA, 
miller@pire.org.

PURPOSE: To estimate quality-of-life loss per serious burn survivor in a large 
U.S. cohort.
METHODS: Longitudinal functional assessments of all 1,587 people receiving 
primary treatment in 5 burn centers between 2000 and 2009 included pre-burn 
(retrospective), at time of discharge, and 6, 12, and 24 months post-injury. We 
assessed adults with RAND Short Form (SF) 12 and children with SF-10 or Child 
Health Questionnaire, the child surveys scored using standard norms-based 
scoring. A literature review identified 20 quality-adjusted life year utility 
scorings for SF-12 and 27 scorings for EQ-5d response distributions predicted 
from SF-12 scores. We computed composite scores for each patient and time period 
by applying 32 scorings that met quality/non-duplication criteria.
RESULTS: Mean quality-of-life scores were 0.805 4 weeks pre-burn, 0.562 at 
discharge, rebounded through 1 year, and stabilized at 0.735 (0.750 for TBSA 
burned below 25 %, 0.722 for TBSA burned of 25-50 %, and 0.695 for larger 
burns). As a percentage of initial levels, burns reduced short-term quality of 
life by 30 %. Long-term loss averaged 11 %, ranging from 9 % for TBSA burned 
below 25-13 % for TBSA burned above 50 %. Children recovered faster and more 
fully.
CONCLUSION: Burns cause substantial losses in quality of life, with long-term 
losses comparable to traumatic brain injury.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-012-0321-5
PMID: 23224665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Arch Osteoporos. 2012;7:21-4. doi: 10.1007/s11657-012-0077-0. Epub 2012 Jul
26.

When the government actively faces the burden of osteoporosis: the Italian 
experience.

Brandi ML(1), Guglielmi G, Masala S, Minisola S, Ortolani S, Tarantino U, 
Simonetti G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Florence, Florence, Italy. 
m.brandi@dmi.unifi.it

EPIDEMIOLOGY AND COSTS OF FRAGILITY FRACTURES IN ITALY: The problem of 
osteoporosis is emerging as growing phenomenon, with an enormous impact on 
quality of life and on health expenses. As a consequence, a reduction in the 
social and health impact of bone fragility would be associated with an improved 
quality of life of all elderly citizens and with valuable cost savings at the 
health system level. OSTEOPOROSIS: EVOLUTION OF THE CONCEPT IN ITALY: In the 
last 20 years, there have been enormous advances in the knowledge of diagnostic 
and therapeutic options and thus we would be in the position of starting 
effective therapies in at risk populations. However, this not always happens. 
NEW APPROACHES TO THE FRAGILITY FRACTURES BY THE ITALIAN GOVERNMENT: In this 
paper we offer to the reader the possibility to know the history of 
osteoporosis, its diagnosis and its therapy in Italy, a country where life 
expectancy is one of the highest in the world. THE FUTURE OF OSTEOPOROSIS IN 
ITALY: We hope that the example of Italy would serve as an inspiration to those 
countries where the history of osteoporosis only recently began.

DOI: 10.1007/s11657-012-0077-0
PMID: 23225277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Anticancer Res. 2012 Dec;32(12):5465-73.

Review on the annual cancer risk of Barrett's esophagus in persons with symptoms 
of gastroesophageal reflux disease.

Lenglinger J(1), Riegler M, Cosentini E, Asari R, Mesteri I, Wrba F, Schoppmann 
SF.

Author information:
(1)University Clinic of Surgery, Comprehensive Cancer Center Vienna Medical 
University Vienna, Vienna General Hospital, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 
Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Esophageal adenocarcinoma results from gastroesophageal reflux and 
develops along a sequence involving non-dysplastic Barrett's esophagus (NDBE), 
low- (LGD) and high-grade dysplasia (HGD). We aimed to examine the reported 
annual cancer risk for NDBE in persons with symptoms of gastroesophageal reflux 
disease, i.e. symptomatic NDBE.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Our study reviewed seven population-based studies and 
five meta-analyses on the annual cancer risk of symptomatic NDBE published 
between 2006-2012.
RESULTS: The published annual cancer risk of symptomatic NDBE ranges from 
0.12-0.5% and 0.33-0.7% in population-based studies and meta-analyses, 
respectively. Risk factors for cancer development include male gender, age >60 
years, length of endoscopically visible columnar lined esophagus (CLE) >3.0 cm, 
size of the hiatal hernia, progression to LGD/HGD and past history of cigarette 
smoking. The mean time-to-cancer development is 5 years and ranges from 2 to 15 
years. Age at the diagnosis of symptomatic NDBE and cancer development plateaus 
around 50 and 60 years of age, respectively. Symptomatic NDBE does not affect 
the life expectancy, when compared to the general population. The majority of 
patients with NDBE do not die due to esophageal adenocarcinoma but due to 
comorbidity (cardiorespiratory, neurological, other cancer). The risk and 
prognosis of asymptomatic NDBE remains unknown.
CONCLUSION: The published annual cancer risk for symptomatic NDBE is low. 
However, demographic and endoscopic data contribute to define a subgroup of 
patients with symptomatic NDBE with a cancer risk comparable to LGD, where 
elimination within controlled trials seems justified (radiofrequency ablation). 
Future efforts should extend towards asymptomatic NDBE, the major cause for 
cancer development.

PMID: 23225453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Protein Sci. 2013 Jul;22(7):883-92. doi: 10.1002/pro.2204. Epub 2013 Jan 17.

The structure of DesR from Streptomyces venezuelae, a β-glucosidase involved in 
macrolide activation.

Zmudka MW(1), Thoden JB, Holden HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin 
53706, USA.

Antibiotics have, indeed, altered the course of human history as is evidenced by 
the increase in human life expectancy since the 1940s. Many of these natural 
compounds are produced by bacteria that, by necessity, must have efficient 
self-resistance mechanisms. The methymycin/pikromycin producing species 
Streptomyces venezuelae, for example, utilizes β-glucosylation of its macrolide 
products to neutralize their effects within the confines of the cell. Once 
released into the environment, these compounds are activated by the removal of 
the glucose moiety. In S. venezuelae, the enzyme responsible for removal of the 
sugar from the parent compound is encoded by the desR gene and referred to as 
DesR. It is a secreted enzyme containing 828 amino acid residues, and it is 
known to be a retaining glycosidase. Here, we describe the structure of the 
DesR/D-glucose complex determined to 1.4-Å resolution. The overall architecture 
of the enzyme can be envisioned in terms of three regions: a catalytic core and 
two auxiliary domains. The catalytic core harbors the binding platform for the 
glucose ligand. The first auxiliary domain adopts a "PA14 fold," whereas the 
second auxiliary domain contains an immunoglobulin-like fold. Asp 273 and Glu 
578 are in the proper orientation to function as the catalytic base and proton 
donor, respectively, required for catalysis. The overall fold of the core region 
places DesR into the GH3 glycoside hydrolase family of enzymes. Comparison of 
the DesR structure with the β-glucosidase from Kluyveromyces marxianus shows 
that their PA14 domains assume remarkably different orientations.

Copyright © 2013 The Protein Society.

DOI: 10.1002/pro.2204
PMCID: PMC3719083
PMID: 23225731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Bull World Health Organ. 2012 Nov 1;90(11):813-21. doi:
10.2471/BLT.12.104133.  Epub 2012 Sep 14.

Economic evaluation of a task-shifting intervention for common mental disorders 
in India.

Buttorff C(1), Hock RS, Weiss HA, Naik S, Araya R, Kirkwood BR, Chisholm D, 
Patel V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To carry out an economic evaluation of a task-shifting intervention 
for the treatment of depressive and anxiety disorders in primary-care settings 
in Goa, India.
METHODS: Cost-utility and cost-effectiveness analyses based on generalized 
linear models were performed within a trial set in 24 public and private 
primary-care facilities. Subjects were randomly assigned to an intervention or a 
control arm. Eligible subjects in the intervention arm were given 
psycho-education, case management, interpersonal psychotherapy and/or 
antidepressants by lay health workers. Subjects in the control arm were treated 
by physicians. The use of health-care resources, the disability of each subject 
and degree of psychiatric morbidity, as measured by the Revised Clinical 
Interview Schedule, were determined at 2, 6 and 12 months.
FINDINGS: Complete data, from all three follow-ups, were collected from 1243 
(75.4%) and 938 (81.7%) of the subjects enrolled in the study facilities from 
the public and private sectors, respectively. Within the public facilities, 
subjects in the intervention arm showed greater improvement in all the health 
outcomes investigated than those in the control arm. Time costs were also 
significantly lower in the intervention arm than in the control arm, whereas 
health system costs in the two arms were similar. Within the private facilities, 
however, the effectiveness and costs recorded in the two arms were similar.
CONCLUSION: Within public primary-care facilities in Goa, the use of lay health 
workers in the care of subjects with common mental disorders was not only 
cost-effective but also cost-saving.

OBJECTIF: Réaliser une évaluation économique d'une intervention de transfert de 
tâches dans le cadre du traitement des troubles dépressifs et anxieux dans les 
établissements de soins primaires à Goa, en Inde.
MÉTHODES: Des analyses de coût-utilité et coût-efficacité basées sur des modèles 
linéaires généralisés ont été effectuées dans le cadre d'un essai organisé dans 
24 établissements publics et privés de soins primaires. Les sujets ont été 
répartis de manière aléatoire entre groupe d'intervention ou groupe témoin. Les 
sujets du groupe d'intervention ont bénéficié d’une psychoéducation, de la 
gestion de cas, d’une psychothérapie interpersonnelle et/ou d'antidépresseurs de 
la part d'agents de santé non professionnels. Les sujets du groupe témoin ont 
été traités par des médecins. L'utilisation des ressources de santé, le handicap 
de chaque sujet et le degré de morbidité psychiatrique, tel que mesuré par le 
Programme d'entretien clinique révisé, ont été déterminés à 2, 6 et 12 mois.
RÉSULTATS: Les données complètes de chacun des trois suivis ont été recueillies 
pour 1243 (75,4%) et 938 (81,7%) des sujets inscrits dans les établissements 
publics et privés, respectivement. Dans les établissements publics, les sujets 
du groupe d'intervention connaissaient une amélioration plus importante de tous 
les résultats sanitaires étudiés que les sujets du groupe témoin. Les coûts en 
termes de temps étaient également significativement plus faibles dans le groupe 
d'intervention que dans le groupe témoin, alors que les coûts du système de 
santé dans les deux groupes étaient similaires. Dans les établissements privés, 
cependant, l'efficacité et les coûts enregistrés dans les deux groupes étaient 
similaires.
CONCLUSION: Dans les établissements publics de soins primaires à Goa, le recours 
à des agents de santé non professionnels pour la prise en charge des sujets 
atteints de troubles mentaux communs était non seulement efficace en termes de 
coût, mais aussi plus économique.

OBJETIVO: Realizar una evaluación económica de una intervención de delegación de 
tareas para el tratamiento de trastornos depresivos y de ansiedad en entornos de 
atención primaria en Goa, India.
MÉTODOS: Se llevaron a cabo análisis de la relación coste-utilidad y 
coste-eficacia basados en modelos lineales generalizados en un ensayo realizado 
en 24 centros de atención primaria tanto públicos como privados. De manera 
aleatoria, se asignó a los sujetos un brazo de intervención o otro de control. 
Empleados sanitarios no profesionales proporcionaron psicoeducación, tratamiento 
del caso, psicoterapia interpersonal y/o antidepresivos a los sujetos que 
reunían los requisitos necesarios en el brazo de intervención. Los sujetos en el 
brazo de control fueron tratados por médicos. Se determinó el uso de recursos 
para la atención sanitaria, la discapacidad de cada sujeto y el grado de 
morbilidad psiquiátrica, según lo evaluado por la versión revisada del 
instrumento de entrevista clínica (CIS-R), a los 2, 6 y 12 meses.
RESULTADOS: De los tres seguimientos, se recogieron los datos completos de 1243 
(75,4%) y 938 (81,7%) de los sujetos inscritos, respectivamente, en los centros 
de estudio públicos y privados. En los centros públicos, los sujetos en el brazo 
de intervención mostraron una mejora superior que los del brazo de control en 
todos los resultados sanitarios que se investigaron. Los costes de mantenimiento 
también fueron notablemente inferiores en el brazo de intervención que en el de 
control, mientras que los costes para el sistema de salud fueron similares en 
los dos brazos. En los centros privados, sin embargo, la eficacia y los costes 
registrados fueron similares para los dos brazos.
CONCLUSIÓN: El uso de empleados sanitarios no profesionales en los centros de 
atención primaria públicos en Goa para el cuidado de sujetos con trastornos 
metales comunes no sólo fue efectivo en relación con los costes sino que también 
supuso un ahorro.

الغرض: تنفيذ تقييم اقتصادي للتدخل الرامي إلى إعادة توزيع المهام لعلاج اضطرابات 
الاكتئاب والقلق في مواقع الرعاية الأولية في غوا بالهند.
الطريقة: تم إجراء تحليلات لنفعية التكلفة والمردودية استناداً إلى نماذج خطية عامة 
داخل مجموعة تجارب في 24 مرفق رعاية أولية عمومي وخاص. وتم تخصيص المشاركين على نحو 
عشوائي لفئة التدخل أو فئة المقارنة. وتم إعطاء المشاركين المؤهلين في فئة التدخل 
التثقيف النفسي والتدبير العلاجي للحالة والعلاج النفسي بين الأفراد و/أو مضادات 
الاكتئاب على أيدي عاملين صحيين غير مدربين. وقام الأطباء بعلاج المشاركين في فئة 
المقارنة. وتم تحديد استخدام موارد الرعاية الصحية وحالة العجز لدى كل مشترك ودرجة 
المراضة النفسية عند شهرين و6 أشهر و12 شهراً، وفق ما تم قياسه بواسطة جدول 
المقابلة السريرية المنقح.
النتائج: تم جمع البيانات الكاملة من المتابعات الثلاث بالكامل من 1243 (75.4 %) 
و938 (81.7 %) من الأشخاص المسجلين في مرافق الدراسة من القطاعين العمومي والخاص، 
على التوالي. وأظهر المشاركون في فئة التدخل، داخل المرافق العمومية، تحسناً كبيراً 
في جميع النتائج الصحية التي تم تحريها عن تلك الخاصة بفئة المقارنة. وانخفضت أيضاً 
التكاليف الزمنية بشكل كبير في فئة التدخل عنها في فئة المقارنة، في حين تشابهت 
تكاليف النظم الصحية في الفئتين. وعلى الرغم من ذلك، تشابهت الفعالية والتكاليف 
المسجلة في الفئتين داخل المرافق الخاصة.
الاستنتاج: لم يكن استخدام العاملين الصحيين غير المدربين في رعاية الأشخاص ذوي 
الاضطرابات النفسية الشائعة داخل مرافق الرعاية الأولية العمومية في غوا ذي مردودية 
من حيث التكلفة فحسب ولكنه كان موفراً للتكاليف أيضاً.

目的: 执行针对在印度果阿基层卫生保健环境中的抑郁症和焦虑症任务转移干预治疗的经济评价。
方法: 在24 个公共和私营基层医疗设施内的试用设置中执行基于广义线性模型的成本 - 效用和成本 - 
效益分析。受试者被随机分配到干预组或对照组。干预组中符合标准的受试者由非专业卫生工作者提供心理教育、个案管理、人际心理治疗和/或抗抑郁药。对照组中的受试者由专业医生治疗。在第2 
月、第6 月和第12 个月使用经修订的临床访谈表确定卫生保健资源的使用、每个受试者障碍和精神疾病患病程度。
结果: 
从分别在公共和私营部门研究设施注册的1243（75.4%）和938（81.7%）名受试者处收集所有三次随访的完整数据。在公共设施内，干预组中的受试者在所有受调查的健康状况中表现出比在对照组中的受试者更好的改善效果。干预组中的时间成本也显著低于对照组，而两个组中的卫生系统成本相似。但是，在私营设施中，在两个组中记录的效益和成本相似。
结论: 在果阿公共基层医疗设施中，使用非专业卫生工作者护理常见精神障碍的受试者不仅具有成本效益，也节省了成本。

ЦЕЛЬ: Произвести экономическую оценку введения перераспределения обязанностей 
для лечения депрессивных и тревожных расстройств в учреждениях первичной 
медицинской помощи в Гоа, Индия.
МЕТОДЫ: Анализ результативности и экономической эффективности затрат на основе 
обобщенных линейных моделей проводился в экспериментальной группе в 24 
государственных и частных учреждениях первичной медицинской помощи. Пациенты 
случайным образом отбирались в группу введения перераспределения обязанностей 
или контрольную группу. Удовлетворяющие требованиям пациенты в группе 
перераспределения обязанностей обучались непрофессиональными медицинскими 
работниками психологической самопомощи, управлению заболеванием, межличностной 
психотерапии и/или получали антидепрессанты. Пациенты в контрольной группе 
проходили лечение, назначенное врачами. Использование медицинских ресурсов, 
недееспособность каждого испытуемого и степень психиатрического заболевания 
оценивались на 2-й, 6-й, и 12-й месяцы согласно Пересмотренному плану 
клинического интервью.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Полные данные всех трех наблюдений были собраны у 1243 (75,4%) и 938 
(81,7%) пациентов, попавших на клиническое исследование из государственного и 
частного секторов, соответственно. В государственных учреждениях пациенты в 
группе перераспределения обязанностей продемонстрировали более выраженное 
улучшение по всем исследуемым критериям оценки состояния здоровья по сравнению с 
контрольной группой. Затраты времени также были значительно ниже в группе 
перераспределения обязанностей по сравнению с контрольной группой, в то время 
как медицинские затраты двух группах были одинаковы. Однако в частных 
учреждениях эффективность и затраты, отмеченные в двух группах, были схожими.
ВЫВОД: В государственных учреждениях первичной медицинской помощи в Гоа 
использование непрофессиональных медицинских работников в лечении пациентов с 
общими психическими расстройствами было не только экономически эффективным, но и 
потребовало меньших затрат.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.12.104133
PMCID: PMC3506405
PMID: 23226893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Int J Microbiol. 2012;2012:962846. doi: 10.1155/2012/962846. Epub 2012 Nov
21.

Use of e-beam for shelf-life extension and sanitizing of marinated pork loin.

García-Márquez I(1), Ordóñez JA, Cambero MI, Cabeza MC.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Nutrición, Bromatología y Tecnología de los Alimentos, 
Facultad de Veterinaria, Universidad Complutense de Madrid, 28040 Madrid, Spain.

The effectiveness of E-beam radiation to extend the shelf-life of marinated pork 
loin slices stored at 4 and 8°C (temperature abuse) has been studied. The 
shelf-life was extended from 7 to 16 and >20 days after the application of 1 and 
2 kGy, respectively. In the event of a temperature abuse occuring during the 
product distribution (e.g., increase to 8°C), the shelf-life would be extended 
from 5 to 10 and 16 days, respectively, when applying the doses mentioned 
previously. From a public health point of view, the irradiation of marinated 
pork loin may be marketable for a longer period of time of up to two weeks, and 
guarantees a practically Salmonella and Listeria-free product. Minor changes are 
produced by the E-beam treatment in the main sensory and rheological 
characteristics. The odor was the most affected feature, but the off-odors 
diminished with increased storage. In any case, testers judged the samples to be 
adequate for marketing.

DOI: 10.1155/2012/962846
PMCID: PMC3512307
PMID: 23227053


830. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e49473. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049473. Epub 2012
Dec 5.

Extending the body to virtual tools using a robotic surgical interface: evidence 
from the crossmodal congruency task.

Sengül A(1), van Elk M, Rognini G, Aspell JE, Bleuler H, Blanke O.

Author information:
(1)Center for Neuroprosthetics, School of Life Sciences, Ecole Polytechnique 
Fédérale de Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland. ali.sengul@epfl.ch

The effects of real-world tool use on body or space representations are 
relatively well established in cognitive neuroscience. Several studies have 
shown, for example, that active tool use results in a facilitated integration of 
multisensory information in peripersonal space, i.e. the space directly 
surrounding the body. However, it remains unknown to what extent similar 
mechanisms apply to the use of virtual-robotic tools, such as those used in the 
field of surgical robotics, in which a surgeon may use bimanual haptic 
interfaces to control a surgery robot at a remote location. This paper presents 
two experiments in which participants used a haptic handle, originally designed 
for a commercial surgery robot, to control a virtual tool. The integration of 
multisensory information related to the virtual-robotic tool was assessed by 
means of the crossmodal congruency task, in which subjects responded to tactile 
vibrations applied to their fingers while ignoring visual distractors 
superimposed on the tip of the virtual-robotic tool. Our results show that 
active virtual-robotic tool use changes the spatial modulation of the crossmodal 
congruency effects, comparable to changes in the representation of peripersonal 
space observed during real-world tool use. Moreover, when the virtual-robotic 
tools were held in a crossed position, the visual distractors interfered 
strongly with tactile stimuli that was connected with the hand via the tool, 
reflecting a remapping of peripersonal space. Such remapping was not only 
observed when the virtual-robotic tools were actively used (Experiment 1), but 
also when passively held the tools (Experiment 2). The present study extends 
earlier findings on the extension of peripersonal space from physical and 
pointing tools to virtual-robotic tools using techniques from haptics and 
virtual reality. We discuss our data with respect to learning and human factors 
in the field of surgical robotics and discuss the use of new technologies in the 
field of cognitive neuroscience.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049473
PMCID: PMC3515602
PMID: 23227142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


831. J Clin Nurs. 2013 Oct;22(19-20):2953-63. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-2702.2012.04335.x.  Epub 2012 Dec 10.

Family functioning, health and social support assessed by aged home care clients 
and their family members.

Hautsalo K(1), Rantanen A, Astedt-Kurki P.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, Nursing Science, University of Tampere, Finland, 
Finland.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to describe aged home care 
clients' and their family members' experiences of their family functioning, 
family health and social support received. An additional purpose was to 
determine which factors are connected with social support.
BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy and ageing of the population require 
consideration of the adequacy of home care services and the role of family 
members as care providers. The older population is a very heterogeneous group 
because of their variable needs and several disabilities. To ensure the quality 
of home care, experimental information is needed from clients and their family 
members.
DESIGN: A survey design with convenience sampling.
METHODS: The home care client and a family member of his/her answered a 
questionnaire together, including background questions, the Family Functioning, 
Health and Social Support instrument and an open question about support received 
from home care. Statistical methods were used to describe quantitative data, and 
content analysis was used in analysing the replies to the open question.
RESULTS: Family health was noted as good, and family functioning and overall 
social support fairly good. An older person's higher basic education, higher age 
of the family member, better family health and male gender were connected with 
better social support received. The relationship of the older person and the 
family member as well as the duration of home care service use had an effect on 
social support received. The content analysis raised expectations related to 
time, planning of service, organisational factors and caring practise.
CONCLUSIONS: Home care clients' and families' needs for support vary, and 
therefore, the assessment of needs, care planning and updating are important.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: The variable support needs of older people and 
their family members require flexible and adaptable home services. Cooperation 
between all participants involved in care would promote the well-being of the 
older person and the entire family.

© 2012 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-2702.2012.04335.x
PMID: 23228118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. J Urol. 2013 Jun;189(6):2054-60. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2012.12.006. Epub 2012
Dec  7.

Endoscopic versus laparoscopic management of noninvasive upper tract urothelial 
carcinoma: 20-year single center experience.

Cutress ML(1), Stewart GD, Tudor EC, Egong EA, Wells-Cole S, Phipps S, Thomas 
BG, Riddick AC, McNeill SA, Tolley DA.

Author information:
(1)Scottish Lithotriptor Centre, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, United 
Kingdom. mcutress@doctors.org.uk

Comment in
    J Urol. 2013 Jun;189(6):2061; discussion 2061.

PURPOSE: We compare the outcomes of endoscopic surgery to laparoscopic 
nephroureterectomy for the management of specifically noninvasive upper tract 
urothelial carcinoma.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective database review identified consecutive 
patients with clinically noninvasive upper tract urothelial carcinoma who 
underwent endoscopic surgery (59, via ureteroscopic ablation or percutaneous 
resection) or laparoscopic nephroureterectomy (70) at a single center during 20 
years (1991 to 2011). Overall survival, upper tract urothelial carcinoma 
specific survival, upper tract recurrence-free survival, intravesical 
recurrence-free survival, progression-free survival and renal unit survival were 
estimated using Kaplan-Meier methods, with differences assessed using the log 
rank test.
RESULTS: Median age and followup were 74.8 years and 50 months, respectively. 
Overall renal preservation in the endoscopic group was high (5-year renal unit 
survival 82.5%), although this came at a cost of high local recurrence 
(endoscopic surgery 5-year recurrence-free survival 49.3%, laparoscopic 
nephroureterectomy 100%, p <0.0001). For G1 upper tract urothelial carcinoma, 
endoscopic surgery 5-year disease specific survival (100%) was equivalent to 
that of laparoscopic nephroureterectomy (100%). However, laparoscopic 
nephroureterectomy demonstrated superior disease specific survival to endoscopic 
surgery for G2 disease (91.7% vs 62.5%, p = 0.037) and superior progression-free 
survival for G3 disease (88.9% vs 55.6%, p = 0.033).
CONCLUSIONS: For G1 upper tract urothelial carcinoma, endoscopic management can 
provide effective oncologic control and renal preservation. However, endoscopic 
management should not be considered for higher grade disease except in 
compelling imperative cases or in patients with poor life expectancy as 
oncologic outcomes are inferior to those of laparoscopic nephroureterectomy.

Copyright © 2013 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2012.12.006
PMID: 23228378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2013 Jan 11;430(2):567-72. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2012.11.112. Epub 2012 Dec 7.

Tail-extension following the termination codon is critical for release of the 
nascent chain from membrane-bound ribosomes in a reticulocyte lysate cell-free 
system.

Takahara M(1), Sakaue H, Onishi Y, Yamagishi M, Kida Y, Sakaguchi M.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Science, University of Hyogo, Kouto, Ako-gun, Hyogo 
678-1297, Japan.

Nascent chain release from membrane-bound ribosomes by the termination codon was 
investigated using a cell-free translation system from rabbit supplemented with 
rough microsomal membrane vesicles. Chain release was extremely slow when mRNA 
ended with only the termination codon. Tail extension after the termination 
codon enhanced the release of the nascent chain. Release reached plateau levels 
with tail extension of 10 bases. This requirement was observed with all 
termination codons: TAA, TGA and TAG. Rapid release was also achieved by 
puromycin even in the absence of the extension. Efficient translation 
termination cannot be achieved in the presence of only a termination codon on 
the mRNA. Tail extension might be required for correct positioning of the 
termination codon in the ribosome and/or efficient recognition by release 
factors.
