Pereira SP(1), Aithal GP, Ragunath K, Devlin J, Owen F, Meadows H.

Author information:
(1)UCL Institute of Liver and Digestive Health, University College London, UK. 
stephen.pereira@ucl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: In patients with unresectable cholangiocarcinoma, photodynamic 
therapy (PDT) with porfimer sodium promotes biliary drainage and may improve 
survival and quality of life.
AIM: To prospectively evaluate the safety and efficacy of PDT in patients with 
locally advanced biliary tract carcinoma.
METHODS: Eligible patients had unresectable, histologically confirmed disease, a 
Karnofsky performance status of ≥30% and life expectancy >12 weeks. Patients 
received 2mg/kg i.v. of porfimer sodium, followed by endobiliary laser 
activation and stent replacement 48 h later. Patients were assessed clinically 
and radiologically before treatment and on day 28, and followed up thereafter at 
three-monthly intervals until death.
RESULTS: 36 patients were entered over an 18 months period: 14 males, 22 
females, with a median age of 65 (30-79)yr and performance status of 80 
(50-100). PDT was technically successful in all cases and was generally well 
tolerated; there was no grade 4 toxicity and no treatment-associated mortality. 
The median survival was 12 (1-84) months.
CONCLUSIONS: Porfimer sodium PDT can be delivered safely to patients with 
biliary tract cancer and is suitable for testing in phase III studies (UKCRN ID 
1218).

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pdpdt.2012.03.005
PMCID: PMC3513688
PMID: 23200007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Econ Hum Biol. 2013 Dec;11(4):488-501. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2012.10.003. Epub
2012  Nov 3.

Stature, migration and human welfare in South China, 1850-1930.

Ward WP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of History, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada 
V6T 1Z1. Electronic address: peter.ward@ubc.ca.

This paper offers new evidence on human stature in south China during the second 
half of the 19th century and early part of the 20th. It is based on the records 
kept by the Government of Canada of 97,123 Chinese immigrants who were required 
to pay an entry tax between 1885 and 1949. While the study population included 
both sexes and all ages from infancy to old age, it was largely male, with most 
ages falling between 12 and 50. The data reveal an increase of over 4cm in the 
adult heights of both sexes between 1850 and 1930. They also indicate an upward 
trend of over 5cm in the heights of adolescent males. The mean heights of male 
immigrants fall in the lower range of those reported in other studies of stature 
in south China. The rising trends contrast with a pattern of stagnation and 
decline reported in other recent findings but are consistent with other recent 
evidence of increasing economic growth, real wages, and life expectancy in south 
China during this period. One likely cause of improved well-being is the 
influence of the migrants' remittances on socioeconomic change in south China.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2012.10.003
PMID: 23200182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2013 Feb;68(2):296-300. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2012.10.016.
 Epub 2012 Nov 27.

Life expectancy after Mohs micrographic surgery in patients aged 90 years and 
older.

Delaney A(1), Shimizu I, Goldberg LH, MacFarlane DF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Geisinger Medical Center, Danville, Pennsylvania, 
USA.

Comment in
    J Am Acad Dermatol. 2013 Dec;69(6):1051-2.
    J Am Acad Dermatol. 2013 Dec;69(6):1052-3.

BACKGROUND: The population of people aged 90 years and older is expected to more 
than triple by 2050. The incidence of skin cancers is increasing.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to determine whether treatment of patients aged 90 years 
and older with skin cancer by Mohs micrographic surgery (MMS) changed their 
survival.
METHODS: A group of 214 patients aged 90 years and older who underwent MMS from 
July 1997 to May 2006 was identified. Patient gender, age, tumor type, size, 
site, defect size, number of MMS stages, and surgical repair were recorded. 
Comorbid medical conditions were assessed using the Charlson index. Actual 
survival was compared with expected length of survival using life tables. Data 
were analyzed by the Kaplan-Meier method with log rank significance tests.
RESULTS: Average patient age was 92.3 years. All patients tolerated the 
procedures well with no deaths within 1 month after surgery. Median survival 
after surgery was 36.9 months. Tumor characteristics, defect size, number of 
surgical stages, and closure type did not affect survival. There was no 
significant difference in survival based on comorbidities according to Charlson 
scores. Instantaneous mortality hazard was highest 2 to 3 years after surgery.
LIMITATIONS: Specific causes of death were not accessible.
CONCLUSION: This growing section of the population may safely undergo MMS.

Copyright © 2012 American Academy of Dermatology, Inc. Published by Mosby, Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2012.10.016
PMID: 23200199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Public Health. 2013 Feb;127(2):189-90. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.11.003. Epub
 2012 Nov 28.

Health care and life expectancy: a letter from Russia.

Jargin SV.

Comment in
    Public Health. 2013 Feb;127(2):191-2.

Comment on
    Public Health. 2012 Mar;126(3):248-52.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.11.003
PMID: 23200435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Lancet. 2012 Dec 8;380(9858):2029-43. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61814-5.
Epub  2012 Nov 30.

Health in South Africa: changes and challenges since 2009.

Mayosi BM(1), Lawn JE, van Niekerk A, Bradshaw D, Abdool Karim SS, Coovadia HM; 
Lancet South Africa team.

Collaborators: Karim QA, Karim SS, Barron P, Bradshaw D, Chopra M, Churchyard 
GJ, Coovadia HM, Jewkes R, Lalloo UG, Lawn JE, Lawn SD, Mayosi BM, Pattinson R, 
Seedat M, Sitas F, Suffla S, Tollman SM, Van Niekerk A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Groote Schuur Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2012 Dec 8;380(9858):1969-70.

Since the 2009 Lancet Health in South Africa Series, important changes have 
occurred in the country, resulting in an increase in life expectancy to 60 
years. Historical injustices together with the disastrous health policies of the 
previous administration are being transformed. The change in leadership of the 
Ministry of Health has been key, but new momentum is inhibited by stasis within 
the health management bureaucracy. Specific policy and programme changes are 
evident for all four of the so-called colliding epidemics: HIV and tuberculosis; 
chronic illness and mental health; injury and violence; and maternal, neonatal, 
and child health. South Africa now has the world's largest programme of 
antiretroviral therapy, and some advances have been made in implementation of 
new tuberculosis diagnostics and treatment scale-up and integration. HIV 
prevention has received increased attention. Child mortality has benefited from 
progress in addressing HIV. However, more attention to postnatal feeding support 
is needed. Many risk factors for non-communicable diseases have increased 
substantially during the past two decades, but an ambitious government policy to 
address lifestyle risks such as consumption of salt and alcohol provide real 
potential for change. Although mortality due to injuries seems to be decreasing, 
high levels of interpersonal violence and accidents persist. An integrated 
strategic framework for prevention of injury and violence is in progress but its 
successful implementation will need high-level commitment, support for 
evidence-led prevention interventions, investment in surveillance systems and 
research, and improved human-resources and management capacities. A radical 
system of national health insurance and re-engineering of primary health care 
will be phased in for 14 years to enable universal, equitable, and affordable 
health-care coverage. Finally, national consensus has been reached about seven 
priorities for health research with a commitment to increase the health research 
budget to 2·0% of national health spending. However, large racial differentials 
exist in social determinants of health, especially housing and sanitation for 
the poor and inequity between the sexes, although progress has been made in 
access to basic education, electricity, piped water, and social protection. 
Integration of the private and public sectors and of services for HIV, 
tuberculosis, and non-communicable diseases needs to improve, as do surveillance 
and information systems. Additionally, successful interventions need to be 
delivered widely. Transformation of the health system into a national 
institution that is based on equity and merit and is built on an effective 
human-resources system could still place South Africa on track to achieve 
Millennium Development Goals 4, 5, and 6 and would enhance the lives of its 
citizens.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61814-5
PMID: 23201214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Maturitas. 2013 Feb;74(2):109-13. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2012.10.014. Epub
 2012 Nov 29.

'Sarcobesity': a metabolic conundrum.

Parr EB(1), Coffey VG, Hawley JA.

Author information:
(1)Exercise & Nutrition Research Group, School of Medical Sciences, RMIT 
University, Bundoora, Victoria 3083, Australia.

Two independent but inter-related conditions that have a growing impact on 
healthy life expectancy and health care costs in developed nations are an 
age-related loss of muscle mass (i.e., sarcopenia) and obesity. Sarcopenia is 
commonly exacerbated in overweight and obese individuals. Progression towards 
obesity promotes an increase in fat mass and a concomitant decrease in muscle 
mass, producing an unfavourable ratio of fat to muscle. The coexistence of 
diminished muscle mass and increased fat mass (so-called 'sarcobesity') is 
ultimately manifested by impaired mobility and/or development of 
life-style-related diseases. Accordingly, the critical health issue for a large 
proportion of adults in developed nations is how to lose fat mass while 
preserving muscle mass. Lifestyle interventions to prevent or treat sarcobesity 
include energy-restricted diets and exercise. The optimal energy deficit to 
reduce body mass is controversial. While energy restriction in isolation is an 
effective short-term strategy for rapid and substantial weight loss, it results 
in a reduction of both fat and muscle mass and therefore ultimately predisposes 
one to an unfavourable body composition. Aerobic exercise promotes beneficial 
changes in whole-body metabolism and reduces fat mass, while resistance exercise 
preserves lean (muscle) mass. Current evidence strongly supports the inclusion 
of resistance and aerobic exercise to complement mild energy-restricted 
high-protein diets for healthy weight loss as a primary intervention for 
sarcobesity.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2012.10.014
PMID: 23201324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Arch Dis Child. 2013 Feb;98(2):155-60. doi:
10.1136/archdischild-2011-301419.  Epub 2012 Nov 30.

The cost effectiveness of treating paediatric cancer in low-income and 
middle-income countries: a case-study approach using acute lymphocytic leukaemia 
in Brazil and Burkitt lymphoma in Malawi.

Bhakta N(1), Martiniuk AL, Gupta S, Howard SC.

Author information:
(1)Children's Hospital Los Angeles, 4650 Sunset Blvd, Los Angeles, California 
90027, USA. nbhakta@alumni.brown.edu

Approximately 90% of children with cancer reside in low-income and middle-income 
countries (LMIC) where healthcare resources are scarce and allocation decisions 
difficult. The cost effectiveness of treating childhood cancers in these 
settings is unknown. The objective of the present work was to determine 
cost-effectiveness thresholds for common paediatric cancers using acute 
lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in Brazil and Burkitt lymphoma (BL) in Malawi as 
examples. Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) prevented by treatment were 
compared to the gross domestic product (GDP) per capita of each country to 
define cost-effectiveness thresholds using WHO-CHOICE ('CHOosing Interventions 
that are Cost-Effective') guidelines. The case examples were selected due to the 
data available and because ALL and BL both have the potential to yield 
significant health gains at a low cost per patient treated. The key findings 
were as follows: the 3:1 cost/DALY prevented to GDP/capita ratio for ALL in 
Brazil was US $771,225; expenditures below this threshold were cost effective. 
Costs below US $257,075 (1:1 ratio) were considered very cost effective. 
Analogous thresholds for BL in Malawi were US $42,729 and US $14,243. Actual 
costs were far less. In Brazil, US $16,700 was spent to treat each patient while 
in Malawi total drug costs were less than US $50 per child. In summary, 
treatment of certain paediatric cancers in LMIC is very cost effective. Future 
research should evaluate actual treatment and infrastructure expenditures to 
help guide policymakers.

DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2011-301419
PMID: 23201550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Dev Biol. 2013 Feb 1;374(1):108-14. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2012.11.019. Epub
2012  Nov 29.

The Caenorhabditis elegans homolog of the Opitz syndrome gene, madd-2/Mid1, 
regulates anchor cell invasion during vulval development.

Morf MK(1), Rimann I, Alexander M, Roy P, Hajnal A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Life Sciences, University of Zürich, 
Winterthurerstrasse 190, 8057 Zürich, Switzerland.

Mutations in the human Mid1 gene cause Opitz G/BBB syndrome, which is 
characterized by various midline closure defects. The Caenorhabditis elegans 
homolog of Mid1, madd-2, positively regulates signaling by the unc-40 Netrin 
receptor during the extension of muscle arms to the midline and in axon guidance 
and branching. During uterine development, a specialized cell called anchor cell 
(AC) breaches the basal laminae separating the uterus from the epidermis and 
invades the underlying vulval tissue. AC invasion is guided by an UNC-6 Netrin 
signal from the ventral nerve cord and an unknown guidance signal from the 
vulval cells. Using genetic epistasis analysis, we show that madd-2 regulates AC 
invasion downstream of or in parallel with the Netrin signaling pathway. 
Measurements of AC shape, polarity and dynamics indicate that MADD-2 prevents 
the formation of ectopic AC protrusions in the absence of guidance signals. We 
propose that MADD-2 represses the intrinsic invasive capacity of the AC, while 
the Netrin and vulval guidance cues locally overcome this inhibitory activity of 
MADD-2 to guide the AC ventrally into the vulval tissue. Therefore, 
developmental cell invasion depends on a precise balance between pro- and 
anti-invasive factors.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2012.11.019
PMID: 23201576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2013 Mar;67(3):219-24. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2012-201266. Epub 2012 Nov 30.

The changing contribution of smoking to educational differences in life 
expectancy: indirect estimates for Finnish men and women from 1971 to 2010.

Martikainen P(1), Ho JY, Preston S, Elo IT.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Unit, Department of Social Research University of 
Helsinki, PO Box 18, Helsinki FIN-00014, Finland. pekka.martikainen@helsinki.fi

BACKGROUND: We estimated the contribution of smoking to educational differences 
in mortality and life expectancy between 1971 and 2010 in Finland.
METHODS: Eight prospective datasets with baseline in 1970, 1975, 1980, 1985, 
1990, 1995, 2000 and 2005 and each linked to a 5-year mortality follow-up were 
used. We calculated life expectancy at age 50 years with and without 
smoking-attributable mortality by education and gender. Estimates of 
smoking-attributable mortality were based on an indirect method that used lung 
cancer mortality as a proxy for the impact of smoking on mortality from all 
other causes.
RESULTS: Smoking-attributable deaths constituted about 27% of all male deaths 
above age 50 years in the early 1970s and 17% in the period 2006-2010; these 
figures were 1% and 4% among women, respectively. The life expectancy 
differential between men with basic versus high education increased from 3.4 to 
4.7 years between 1971-1975 and 2006-2010. In the absence of smoking, these 
differences would have been 1.5 and 3.4 years, 1.9 years (55%) and 1.3 years 
(29%) less than those observed. Among women, educational differentials in life 
expectancy between the most and least educated increased from 2.5 to 3.0 years. 
This widening was nearly entirely accounted for by the increasing impact of 
smoking. Among women the contribution of smoking to educational differences had 
increased from being negligible in 1971-1975 to 16% in 2006-2010.
CONCLUSIONS: Among men, the increase in educational differences in mortality in 
the past decades was driven by factors other than smoking. However, smoking 
continues to have a major influence on educational differences in mortality 
among men and its contribution is increasing among women.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2012-201266
PMCID: PMC3886806
PMID: 23201620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


769. J Health Econ. 2013 Jan;32(1):128-37. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2012.10.004.
Epub  2012 Oct 30.

Capabilities as menus: a non-welfarist basis for QALY evaluation.

Bleichrodt H(1), Quiggin J.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus School of Economics & iMTA/iBMG, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. bleichrodt@ese.eur.nl

Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) are the most widely used measure of health 
in economic evaluations of health care. Within a welfarist framework QALYs are 
consistent with people's preferences under stringent assumptions. Several 
authors have argued that QALYs are a valid measure of health within an 
extra-welfarist framework. This paper studies the applicability of QALYs within 
the best-known extra-welfarist framework, Sen's capability approach. We propose 
a procedure to value capability sets and provide a foundation for QALYs within 
Sen's capability approach. We show that, under appropriate conditions, the 
ranking of capabilities can be represented locally by a QALY measure and that a 
willingness to pay for QALYs can be defined. The validity of QALYs as a general 
measure of health requires the same stringent conditions as in a welfarist 
framework.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2012.10.004
PMID: 23202258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. Int J Mol Sci. 2012 Sep 26;13(10):12315-35. doi: 10.3390/ijms131012315.

Asymmetric dimethylarginine as a surrogate marker of endothelial dysfunction and 
cardiovascular risk in patients with systemic rheumatic diseases.

Dimitroulas T(1), Sandoo A, Kitas GD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Dudley Group NHS Foundation Trust, Russells Hall 
Hospital, Dudley, West Midlands DY1 2HQ, UK. dimitroulas.theodoros@dgh.nhs.uk.

The last few decades have witnessed an increased life expectancy of patients 
suffering with systemic rheumatic diseases, mainly due to improved management, 
advanced therapies and preventative measures. However, autoimmune disorders are 
associated with significantly enhanced cardiovascular morbidity and mortality 
not fully explained by traditional cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors. It 
has been suggested that interactions between high-grade systemic inflammation 
and the vasculature lead to endothelial dysfunction and atherosclerosis, which 
may account for the excess risk for CVD events in this population. Diminished 
nitric oxide synthesis-due to down regulation of endothelial nitric oxide 
synthase-appears to play a prominent role in the imbalance between vasoactive 
factors, the consequent impairment of the endothelial hemostasis and the early 
development of atherosclerosis. Asymmetric dimethylarginine (ADMA) is one of the 
most potent endogenous inhibitors of the three isoforms of nitric oxide synthase 
and it is a newly discovered risk factor in the setting of diseases associated 
with endothelial dysfunction and adverse cardiovascular events. In the context 
of systemic inflammatory disorders there is increasing evidence that ADMA 
contributes to the vascular changes and to endothelial cell abnormalities, as 
several studies have revealed derangement of nitric oxide/ADMA pathway in 
different disease subsets. In this article we discuss the role of endothelial 
dysfunction in patients with rheumatic diseases, with a specific focus on the 
nitric oxide/ADMA system and we provide an overview on the literature pertaining 
to ADMA as a surrogate marker of subclinical vascular disease.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms131012315
PMCID: PMC3497274
PMID: 23202900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2012 Dec;20(12):766-74. doi: 10.5435/JAAOS-20-12-766.

Dropped head syndrome: etiology and management.

Sharan AD(1), Kaye D, Charles Malveaux WM, Riew KD.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Spine Service, Montefiore Medical Center, Albert Einstein College 
of Medicine, Bronx, NY, USA.

Dropped head syndrome (DHS) is characterized by severe weakness of the cervical 
paraspinal muscles that results in the passively correctable chin-on-chest 
deformity. DHS is most commonly associated with neuromuscular disorders. 
However, it is not always accompanied by electromyographic findings or 
noticeable changes on muscle biopsy. In such cases, the term isolated neck 
extensory myopathy (INEM) is used instead. The literature on the management of 
INEM is limited. Most reports suggest that nonsurgical interventions help to 
stabilize the deformity. The literature on surgical management of INEM is 
limited and mixed, with outcomes ranging from poor to excellent. The prevalence 
of DHS likely will increase as life expectancy increases. Recent advances in our 
understanding of sagittal malalignment and surgical techniques have improved our 
ability to provide better quality of life for patients with cervical deformity.

DOI: 10.5435/JAAOS-20-12-766
PMID: 23203936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Clin Infect Dis. 2013 Feb;56(3):430-46. doi: 10.1093/cid/cis858. Epub 2012
Nov  30.

Cost-effectiveness of World Health Organization 2010 guidelines for prevention 
of mother-to-child HIV transmission in Zimbabwe.

Ciaranello AL(1), Perez F, Engelsmann B, Walensky RP, Mushavi A, Rusibamayila A, 
Keatinge J, Park JE, Maruva M, Cerda R, Wood R, Dabis F, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Divisions of Infectious Disease, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA 02114, USA. aciaranello@partners.org

Comment in
    Clin Infect Dis. 2013 Feb;56(3):447-9.

BACKGROUND: In 2010, the World Health Organization (WHO) released revised 
guidelines for prevention of mother-to-child human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
transmission (PMTCT). We projected clinical impacts, costs, and 
cost-effectiveness of WHO-recommended PMTCT strategies in Zimbabwe.
METHODS: We used Zimbabwean data in a validated computer model to simulate a 
cohort of pregnant, HIV-infected women (mean age, 24 years; mean CD4 count, 451 
cells/µL; subsequent 18 months of breastfeeding). We simulated 
guideline-concordant care for 4 PMTCT regimens: single-dose nevirapine (sdNVP); 
WHO-recommended Option A, WHO-recommended Option B, and Option B+ (lifelong 
maternal 3-drug antiretroviral therapy regardless of CD4). Outcomes included 
maternal and infant life expectancy (LE) and lifetime healthcare costs (2008 US 
dollars [USD]). Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs, in USD per year of 
life saved [YLS]) were calculated from combined (maternal + infant) discounted 
costs and LE.
RESULTS: Replacing sdNVP with Option A increased combined maternal and infant LE 
from 36.97 to 37.89 years and would reduce lifetime costs from $5760 to $5710 
per mother-infant pair. Compared with Option A, Option B further improved LE 
(38.32 years), and saved money within 4 years after delivery ($5630 per 
mother-infant pair). Option B+ (LE, 39.04 years; lifetime cost, $6620 per 
mother-infant pair) improved maternal and infant health, with an ICER of $1370 
per YLS compared with Option B.
CONCLUSIONS: Replacing sdNVP with Option A or Option B will improve maternal and 
infant outcomes and save money; Option B increases health benefits and decreases 
costs compared with Option A. Option B+ further improves maternal outcomes, with 
an ICER (compared with Option B) similar to many current HIV-related healthcare 
interventions.

DOI: 10.1093/cid/cis858
PMCID: PMC3540037
PMID: 23204035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Feb 1;187(3):256-61. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201206-1057OC. Epub 2012 Nov 29.

Integrating mortality and morbidity outcomes: using quality-adjusted life years 
in critical care trials.

Ferguson ND(1), Scales DC, Pinto R, Wilcox ME, Cook DJ, Guyatt GH, Schünemann 
HJ, Marshall JC, Herridge MS, Meade MO; Canadian Critical Care Trials Group.

Author information:
(1)Interdepartmental Division of Critical Care Medicine, The University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Sep 1;188(5):622.
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Sep 1;188(5):622-3.

RATIONALE: Outcome measures that integrate mortality and morbidity, like 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), have been proposed for critical care 
clinical trials.
OBJECTIVES: We sought to describe the distribution of QALYs in critically ill 
patients and estimate sample size requirements for a hypothetical trial using 
QALYs as the primary outcome.
METHODS: We used data from a prospective cohort study of survivors of acute 
respiratory distress syndrome to generate utility values and calculate QALYs at 
6 and 12 months. Using multiple simulations, we estimated the required sample 
sizes for multiple outcome scenarios in a hypothetical trial, including a 
base-case wherein the intervention improved both mortality and QALYs among 
survivors.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: From 195 enrolled patients, follow-up was 
sufficient to generate QALY outcomes for 168 (86.2%) at 6 months and 159 (81.5%) 
at 1 year. For a hypothetical intervention that reduced mortality from 48 to 44% 
and improved QALYs by 0.025 in survivors at 6 months, the required per-group 
sample size was 571 (80% power; two-sided α = 0.05), compared with 2,436 
patients needed for a comparison focusing on mortality alone. When only 
mortality or QALY in survivors (but not both) showed improvement by these 
amounts, 3,426 and 1,827 patients per group were needed, respectively. When 
mortality and morbidity effects moved in opposite directions, simulation results 
became impossible to interpret.
CONCLUSIONS: QALYs may be a feasible outcome in critical care trials yielding a 
patient-centered result and major gains in statistical power under certain 
conditions, but this approach is susceptible to several threats, including loss 
to follow-up.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201206-1057OC
PMID: 23204250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. J Med Ethics. 2013 Mar;39(3):175-80. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100740.
Epub  2012 Nov 30.

Lifetime QALY prioritarianism in priority setting.

Ottersen T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Health Care, University of Bergen, 
Kalfarveien 31, Bergen 5018, Norway. trygve.ottersen@isf.uib.no

Two principles form the basis for much priority setting in health. According to 
the greater benefit principle, resources should be directed toward the 
intervention with the greater health benefit. According to the worse off 
principle, resources should be directed toward the intervention benefiting those 
initially worse off. Jointly, these principles accord with so-called 
prioritarianism. Crucial for its operationalisation is the specification of the 
worse off. In this paper, we examine how the worse off can be defined as those 
with the fewer lifetime Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs). We contrast this 
proposal with several alternative specifications.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100740
PMID: 23204320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Plant Cell. 2012 Nov;24(11):4731-47. doi: 10.1105/tpc.112.106039. Epub 2012
Nov  30.

XTH31, encoding an in vitro XEH/XET-active enzyme, regulates aluminum 
sensitivity by modulating in vivo XET action, cell wall xyloglucan content, and 
aluminum binding capacity in Arabidopsis.

Zhu XF(1), Shi YZ, Lei GJ, Fry SC, Zhang BC, Zhou YH, Braam J, Jiang T, Xu XY, 
Mao CZ, Pan YJ, Yang JL, Wu P, Zheng SJ.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Plant Physiology and Biochemistry, College of Life 
Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, China.

Xyloglucan endohydrolase (XEH) and xyloglucan endotransglucosylase (XET) 
activities, encoded by xyloglucan endotransglucosylase-hydrolase (XTH) genes, 
are involved in cell wall extension by cutting or cutting and rejoining 
xyloglucan chains, respectively. However, the physiological significance of this 
biochemical activity remains incompletely understood. Here, we find that an 
XTH31 T-DNA insertion mutant, xth31, is more Al resistant than the wild type. 
XTH31 is bound to the plasma membrane and the encoding gene is expressed in the 
root elongation zone and in nascent leaves, suggesting a role in cell expansion. 
XTH31 transcript accumulation is strongly downregulated by Al treatment. XTH31 
expression in yeast yields a protein with an in vitro XEH:XET activity ratio of 
>5000:1. xth31 accumulates significantly less Al in the root apex and cell wall, 
shows remarkably lower in vivo XET action and extractable XET activity, has a 
lower xyloglucan content, and exhibits slower elongation. An exogenous supply of 
xyloglucan significantly ameliorates Al toxicity by reducing Al accumulation in 
the roots, owing to the formation of an Al-xyloglucan complex in the medium, as 
verified by an obvious change in chemical shift of (27)Al-NMR. Taken together, 
the data indicate that XTH31 affects Al sensitivity by modulating cell wall 
xyloglucan content and Al binding capacity.

DOI: 10.1105/tpc.112.106039
PMCID: PMC3531863
PMID: 23204407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2013 Mar;52(3):534-42. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/kes312.  Epub 2012 Nov 30.

Treatment of complex regional pain syndrome type I with neridronate: a 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled study.

Varenna M(1), Adami S, Rossini M, Gatti D, Idolazzi L, Zucchi F, Malavolta N, 
Sinigaglia L.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Unit, Ospedale G. Pini, Milan, Italy.

OBJECTIVE: Complex regional pain syndrome type I (CRPS-I) is a severely 
disabling pain syndrome for which no definite treatment has been established. 
The aim of this multi-centre, randomized, double-blind placebo-controlled trial 
was to test the efficacy of the amino-bisphosphonate neridronate in patients 
with CRP-I.
METHODS: Eighty-two patients with CRP-I at either hand or foot were randomly 
assigned to i.v. infusion of 100 mg neridronate given four times over 10 days or 
placebo. After 50 days the former placebo patients were given open label the 
same regimen of neridronate.
RESULTS: Within the first 20 days, visual analogue scale (VAS) score decreased 
significantly more in the neridronate group. In the following 20 days, VAS 
remained unchanged in the placebo group and further decreased in the active 
group by 46.5 mm (95% CI -52.5, -40.5) vs 22.6 mm (95% CI -28.8, -16.3) for 
placebo group (P < 0.0001). Significant improvements vs placebo were observed 
also for a number of other indices of pain and quality of life. During the 
open-extension phase in the formerly placebo group the results of treatment were 
superimposable on those seen during the blind phase in the active group. A year 
later none of the patients was referring symptoms linked to CRPS-I.
CONCLUSION: In patients with acute CRPS-I, four i.v. infusions of neridronate 
100 mg are associated with clinically relevant and persistent benefits. These 
results provide conclusive evidence that the use of bisphosphonates, at 
appropriate doses, is the treatment of choice for CRPS-I.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: EU Clinical Trials Register, 
https://www.clinicaltrialsregister.eu/, 2007-003372-18.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/kes312
PMID: 23204550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Exp Clin Cardiol. 2012 Spring;17(1):20-5.

Increased prevalence of subclinical atherosclerosis in rheumatoid arthritis 
patients of Indian descent.

Deo SS(1), Chogle AR, Mistry KJ, Shetty RR, Nadkar UL.

Author information:
(1)Sir HN Medical Research Society; ; Sir HN Hospital and Research Centre, 
Mumbai, India.

BACKGROUND: Studies have shown that rheumatoid arthritis (RA) patients are two 
to five times more likely to develop premature cardiovascular disease, thus 
shortening their life expectancy by five to 10 years. This risk has risen to 
approximately 12.6% in the urban population and 7.4% in the rural population of 
India. The Framingham risk score (FRS) identifies patients at increased 
cardiovascular risk and helps determine the need for preventive interventions. 
An investigation of the patients' coronary arteries and coronary artery 
calcification (CAC) - a measure of atherosclerotic plaque - has been found to be 
a strong predictor of cardiovascular disease.
OBJECTIVE: To identify important biological markers for easy and non-invasive 
identification of cardiovascular disease in RA patients, and to investigate 
whether there is a relationship between the FRS and coronary artery 
atherosclerosis in RA patients.
METHODS: The present study included 43 established RA patients and 50 healthy 
individuals (controls). Traditional and nontraditional risk factors were studied 
and compared with the control group. Insulin resistance was assessed using the 
homeostasis model of assessment of insulin resistance (HOMA-IR) and the 
homeostasis model of assessment of beta cell function. The FRS and the 10-year 
cardiovascular risk were compared between RA patients and controls. The presence 
of CAC was determined using electron-beam computed tomography, and the 
association between the FRS and CAC was examined.
RESULTS: Significant differences in body mass index, waist circumference, 
rheumatoid factors (immunoglobulin [Ig]G, IgM and IgA) and inflammatory markers 
- C-reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate - were noted. There was 
significant correlation between HOMA-IR and body mass index, hypertension and 
C-reactive protein, but no correlation was seen with the homeostasis model of 
assessment of beta cell function. Significant differences were observed in the 
nontraditional biomarkers in RA patients, thus supporting their importance. 
Calcium deposition was observed in only seven RA patients.
CONCLUSIONS: RA patients with increased C-reactive protein levels and 
erythrocyte sedimentation rates showed an increase in serum insulin levels and 
significant differences in HOMA-IR, thus indicating insulin resistance, which 
could lead to underlying progression of artherosclerosis. Significant 
differences were observed in the nontraditional risk factors, which could be 
chosen as biomarkers for endothelial dysfunction. There was a significant 
correlation between calcium score and the FRS in seven patients, suggestive of 
an underlying risk of atherosclerosis.

PMCID: PMC3383363
PMID: 23204896


778. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Jan;77:50-9. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.11.004. Epub
2012  Nov 20.

The impact of therapeutic procedure innovation on hospital patient longevity: 
evidence from Western Australia, 2000-2007.

Lichtenberg FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, National Bureau of Economic Research, 504 Uris Hall, 
3022 Broadway, New York, NY 10027, USA. FRL1@columbia.edu

Assessing the benefits of medical innovation--its impact on health outcomes--is 
as important as assessing the costs-its impact on health expenditure. Most 
formal studies have focused on the expenditure impacts of medical technology, 
partly because costs are more easily identified and quantified than are 
benefits. Moreover, most quantitative research relating to the impact of broad 
categories of technology on health outcomes has focused on pharmaceuticals. This 
is the first study that investigates the benefits and costs of another broad 
category of medical innovation--inpatient therapeutic procedure innovation-using 
data on over one million hospital discharges. We investigate the effect of 
therapeutic procedure innovation in general on the longevity of Western 
Australia (WA) hospital patients with a variety of medical conditions. We can 
measure survival for a period as long as 8 years after admission. We know the 
date each procedure was added to the Medicare Benefits Schedule (MBS). First, we 
perform an analysis using cross-sectional patient-level data, controlling for 
the patient's age, sex, Diagnosis Related Group (DRG, over 600 categories), 
Aboriginal status, marital status, insurance coverage (whether or not the 
patient had private insurance), postcode (over 400 postcodes), year of hospital 
admission, and number of procedures performed. The estimates indicate that 
therapeutic procedure innovation increased the life expectancy of WA hospital 
patients (whose mean life expectancy was about 10 years) by almost 3 months 
between 2000 and 2007. Estimates based on longitudinal DRG-level data also 
indicate that therapeutic procedure innovation increased the life expectancy of 
WA hospital patients, but the implied increase may be smaller-about 2 months. In 
either case, therapeutic procedure innovation in WA hospitals appears to have 
been remarkably cost-effective, because it increased the cost of medical 
procedures by a negligible amount.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.11.004
PMID: 23206558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2013 Feb;99(2):217-22. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2012.10.020. Epub 2012 Nov 30.

The dynamics of life expectancy over the last six decades in elderly people with 
diabetes.

Ioacara S(1), Guja C, Fica S, Ionescu-Tirgoviste C.

Author information:
(1)N. Paulescu National Institute of Diabetes, Nutrition and Metabolic Diseases, 
Bucharest, Romania. drsorin@yahoo.com

AIM: To investigate the historical changes in survival with diabetes in elderly 
people with diabetes.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We analyzed 6504 deaths (44.5% males) registered in 
a large urban population, aged ≥65 years, and deceased between 1943 and 2009. We 
split the analysis into three time periods according to year of death: 
1943-1965, 1966-1988 and 1989-2009. The parallel changes in the corresponding 
general population were available.
RESULTS: The mean age at diabetes onset was 70.8 ± 4.7 years, with mean disease 
duration at death 7.5 ± 5 years, and mean age at death 78.3 ± 5.9 years. The 
mean survival loss due to diabetes (expected minus observed survival) was 4.5 ± 
5.1 years (4.9 ± 5.1 years for females versus 4.1 ± 5.2 years for males, 
p<0.001). The mean disease duration at death was 6.4 ± 5.7 years in the period 
1943-1965, followed by a significant (p=0.019) rise to 7 ± 5 years in 1966-1988, 
and 8.3 ± 4.9 years (p<0.001) in 1989-2009. There was a significant increase in 
coronary heart disease and stroke, and a significant decrease in infections and 
end-stage renal disease as causes of death.
CONCLUSIONS: We found a significant increase in age at onset and survival with 
diabetes leading to a significant increase in age at death. Females had a higher 
survival loss due to diabetes compared with males.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2012.10.020
PMID: 23206671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Pol Arch Med Wewn. 2012;122(11):567-76.

Therapeutic problems in elderly patients with hemophilia.

Zawilska K(1), Podolak-Dawidziak M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Internal Diseases, Struś Hospital, Poznań, 
Poland. k.zawilska@interia.pl

Since the introduction of clotting factor concentrates, the life expectancy of 
patients with hemophilia has increased from 40 years in the 1960s to 60 or even 
70 years today. In Poland, almost all elderly patients with hemophilia have 
arthropathy, the majority are infected with hepatitis C virus (HCV), and some 
even with hepatitis B or human immunodeficiency virus. Liver cirrhosis 
associated with HCV infection develops within 15 to 20 years in 20% to 30% of 
these patients. Coexistent diseases related to aging and affecting the heart, 
kidneys, and other organs constitute another challenge. To prevent ischemic 
heart disease, cardiovascular risk factors should be carefully monitored. The 
present paper describes the current recommendations for the use of 
antithrombotic therapy for acute coronary syndromes and atrial fibrillation in 
patients with hemophilia. Changes in the urinary system in hemophiliacs develop 
with age, often leading to dialysis. There is an urgent need for intensive 
physiotherapy and improved access to orthopedic treatment for patients with 
arthropathy. High‑risk surgical procedures in these patients should be performed 
in specialized centers with an experienced team and a coagulation laboratory. 
Older patients with mild hemophilia are at an increased risk for inhibitor 
development following intensive factor replacement therapy for surgical or 
invasive procedures. Pain control is a particular challenge due to 
contraindications to the use of many effective analgesics; another concern is 
the quality of life of these patients. An increasing number of older patients 
with hemophilia requires a comprehensive diagnostic and therapeutic approach, 
preferably at hematological centers.

PMID: 23207414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2012 Dec;53(6):809-15.

Lung volume reduction surgery 10 years later.

Baldi S(1), Oliaro A, Tabbia G, Bardessono M, Solidoro P, Mancuso M, Sità C, 
Ruffini E.

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary Division, Ospedale S. Giovanni Battista, Turin, Italy. 
baldi_sergio@hotmail.com

AIM: The purpose of this study was to evaluate whether favorable short-term 
results in term of functional outcome and survival following lung volume 
reduction surgery persist for longer periods. Composite preoperative and early 
postoperative variables were analysed.
METHODS: This study was conducted on 52 emphysematous patients who underwent 
lung volume reduction surgery (LVRS) from 1993 to 2000, through a delayed 
retrospective analysis that has allowed us to evaluate a long-term follow-up (10 
years or more); lung function and other variables were considered with respect 
to survival; 11 patients submitted to lung transplantation were also evaluated.
RESULTS: Upper lobe distribution of emphysema (P=0.02, HR:2.43) and systolic PAP 
(P=0.04, HR=2.11) were significantly correlated to survival in a multivariate 
analysis; these variables seem to identify a small subgroup of 14 patients with 
longer survival (more than 10 years). Lung transplantation performed in some 
worsening patients (mean FEV1%:17±4) showed a trend of better survival when we 
compared the observed survival (55±47 months) with expected survival (39.5±15 
months) (P=ns).
CONCLUSION: We conclude that LVRS can lead to a very long survival (10 years or 
more) in a small subgroup of patients, with improvement of pulmonary functional 
data. Some preoperative data (upper lobe distribution of emphysema and pulmonary 
arterial pressure) appear to predict survival. Lung transplantation can be 
offered to these patients, showing a trend to improved life expectancy.

PMID: 23207566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Nutrients. 2012 Dec 3;4(12):1898-944. doi: 10.3390/nu4121898.

Molecular nutrition research: the modern way of performing nutritional science.

Norheim F(1), Gjelstad IM, Hjorth M, Vinknes KJ, Langleite TM, Holen T, Jensen 
J, Dalen KT, Karlsen AS, Kielland A, Rustan AC, Drevon CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University of 
Oslo, Blindern, Oslo, Norway. frode.norheim@medisin.uio.no

In spite of amazing progress in food supply and nutritional science, and a 
striking increase in life expectancy of approximately 2.5 months per year in 
many countries during the previous 150 years, modern nutritional research has a 
great potential of still contributing to improved health for future generations, 
granted that the revolutions in molecular and systems technologies are applied 
to nutritional questions. Descriptive and mechanistic studies using state of the 
art epidemiology, food intake registration, genomics with single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) and epigenomics, transcriptomics, proteomics, metabolomics, 
advanced biostatistics, imaging, calorimetry, cell biology, challenge tests 
(meals, exercise, etc.), and integration of all data by systems biology, will 
provide insight on a much higher level than today in a field we may name 
molecular nutrition research. To take advantage of all the new technologies 
scientists should develop international collaboration and gather data in large 
open access databases like the suggested Nutritional Phenotype database (dbNP). 
This collaboration will promote standardization of procedures (SOP), and provide 
a possibility to use collected data in future research projects. The ultimate 
goals of future nutritional research are to understand the detailed mechanisms 
of action for how nutrients/foods interact with the body and thereby enhance 
health and treat diet-related diseases.

DOI: 10.3390/nu4121898
PMCID: PMC3546614
PMID: 23208524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. J Bronchology Interv Pulmonol. 2011 Jul;18(3):233-8. doi: 
10.1097/LBR.0b013e318222a7da.

Survival and complications after interventional bronchoscopy in malignant 
central airway obstruction: a single-center experience.

Neyman K(1), Sundset A, Espinoza A, Kongerud J, Fosse E.

Author information:
(1)*The Interventional Centre †Institute of Clinical Medicine, Medical Faculty, 
University of Oslo ‡Department of Respiratory Medicine, Oslo University 
Hospital, Oslo, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Patients with malignant airway obstruction may need endobronchial 
intervention to relieve the associated symptoms. We report our experience of 
interventional bronchoscopy with regard to complications and survival.
METHODS: A total of 257 patients (167 men, 90 women, median age 67 y) were 
treated with 360 endobronchial procedures at our department in the period from 
1998 to 2009. Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression methods were used for survival 
analysis. The log-rank test was used for comparison.
RESULTS: Median survival after interventional bronchoscopy was 15 weeks. 
Eighteen patients died within 2 weeks after the procedure. Survival in the 
primary lung and metastatic cancer groups was 15 and 18 weeks, respectively 
(P=0.25). Survival in patients with small-cell lung carcinoma and nonsmall-cell 
lung carcinoma was 7 and 17 weeks, respectively (P=0.04). Serious complications 
such as bleeding (5), pneumothorax (1), and airway obstruction during the 
procedure (1) were rare (1.9%). All cases of serious hemorrhage occurred in 
patients with metastases from renal carcinoma.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy in patients with malignant airway obstruction is 
short. There was no difference in survival between patients with primary and 
metastatic lung disease. Bronchoscopic treatment is safe and serious 
complications are rare. Serious hemorrhage is frequent when treating lung 
metastases from renal carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1097/LBR.0b013e318222a7da
PMID: 23208566


784. Mov Disord. 2012 Dec;27(14):1718-28. doi: 10.1002/mds.25214. Epub 2012 Dec
3.

Long-term outcomes of surgical therapies for Parkinson's disease.

Rodriguez-Oroz MC(1), Moro E, Krack P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital Donostia, Neuroscience Unit, 
BioDonostia Research Institute, San Sebastian, Spain. 
maria.rodriguezoroz@biodonostia.org

The surgical lesion of different brain structures has been used as a treatment 
for Parkinson's disease (PD) for several decades. More recently, the favored 
therapeutic approach has involved the administration of levodopa and the use of 
DBS. These two major therapeutic advances have greatly modified both the 
clinical condition of patients and the history of the disease. With the 
introduction of L-dopa in 1967, patients could regain mobility, because their 
akinesia, tremor, and rigidity were greatly improved, with consequent 
significant improvement in quality of life and increased life expectancy. 
However, after the so-called "honeymoon" period in which the disease seemed to 
be controlled, motor fluctuations and L-dopa-induced dyskinesias mitigated the 
initial enthusiasm. In the 1990s, unilateral pallidotomy and DBS of the globus 
palllidus internus and STN reduced these motor fluctuations and dyskinesias 
remarkably, thereby inaugurating a new era in the surgical treatment of PD. 
Short- and medium-term follow-up studies of patients who underwent surgery have 
documented sustained, significant motor benefits. However, given the progressive 
nature of PD and the purely symptomatic effects of pallidotomy and DBS, the 
long-term clinical evolution of these surgical patients currently seems to be 
associated with a new PD phenotype, mainly characterized by axial motor problems 
and cognitive impairment. Here, we analyze the long-term clinical outcomes of 
surgical PD patients with at least 5-year follow-up, focusing on the long-term 
motor symptoms that were initially responsive to surgery.

Copyright © 2012 Movement Disorder Society.

DOI: 10.1002/mds.25214
PMID: 23208668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. PLoS Med. 2012;9(11):e1001348. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001348. Epub 2012
Nov  27.

Screening and rapid molecular diagnosis of tuberculosis in prisons in Russia and 
Eastern Europe: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Winetsky DE(1), Negoescu DM, DeMarchis EH, Almukhamedova O, Dooronbekova A, 
Pulatov D, Vezhnina N, Owens DK, Goldhaber-Fiebert JD.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, California, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Prisons of the former Soviet Union (FSU) have high rates of 
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) and are thought to drive general 
population tuberculosis (TB) epidemics. Effective prison case detection, though 
employing more expensive technologies, may reduce long-term treatment costs and 
slow MDR-TB transmission.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We developed a dynamic transmission model of TB and drug 
resistance matched to the epidemiology and costs in FSU prisons. We evaluated 
eight strategies for TB screening and diagnosis involving, alone or in 
combination, self-referral, symptom screening, mass miniature radiography (MMR), 
and sputum PCR with probes for rifampin resistance (Xpert MTB/RIF). Over a 10-y 
horizon, we projected costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and TB and 
MDR-TB prevalence. Using sputum PCR as an annual primary screening tool among 
the general prison population most effectively reduced overall TB prevalence 
(from 2.78% to 2.31%) and MDR-TB prevalence (from 0.74% to 0.63%), and cost 
US$543/QALY for additional QALYs gained compared to MMR screening with sputum 
PCR reserved for rapid detection of MDR-TB. Adding sputum PCR to the currently 
used strategy of annual MMR screening was cost-saving over 10 y compared to MMR 
screening alone, but produced only a modest reduction in MDR-TB prevalence (from 
0.74% to 0.69%) and had minimal effect on overall TB prevalence (from 2.78% to 
2.74%). Strategies based on symptom screening alone were less effective and more 
expensive than MMR-based strategies. Study limitations included scarce primary 
TB time-series data in FSU prisons and uncertainties regarding screening test 
characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: In prisons of the FSU, annual screening of the general inmate 
population with sputum PCR most effectively reduces TB and MDR-TB prevalence, 
doing so cost-effectively. If this approach is not feasible, the current 
