ratio (ICER). The level of International Normalized Ratio (INR) control and the 
use of other antithrombotic therapies observed in Belgian clinical practice were 
reflected in two scenario analyses.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, total costs per patient were €13,333 for 
dabigatran and €12,454 for warfarin. Total QALYs per patient were 9.51 for 
dabigatran and 9.19 for warfarin. The corresponding ICER was €2807/QALY. The 
ICER of dabigatran was €970/QALY vs warfarin with real-world INR control and 
€5296/QALY vs a mix of warfarin, aspirin, and no treatment. Results were shown 
to be robust in one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
LIMITATIONS: The analysis does not include long-term costs for clinical events, 
as these data were not available for Belgium. As in any economic model based on 
data from a randomized clinical trial, several assumptions had to be made when 
extrapolating results to routine clinical practice in Belgium.
CONCLUSION: This analysis suggests that dabigatran, a novel oral anticoagulant, 
is a cost-effective treatment for the prevention of stroke and SE in patients 
with non-valvular AF in the Belgian healthcare setting.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.766200
PMID: 23320796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. Environ Entomol. 2012 Dec;41(6):1311-21. doi: 10.1603/EN12212.

Partial life tables from three generations of Enaphalodes rufulus (Coleoptera: 
Cerambycidae).

Haavik LJ(1), Crook DJ, Fierke MK, Galligan LD, Stephen FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, 1 University of Arkansas, 319 Agriculture, 
Fayetteville, AR 72701, USA. ljhaavik@gmail.com

We used life table analyses to investigate age specific mortality and to better 
understand the population dynamics of the red oak borer, Enaphalodes rufulus 
(Haldeman) (Coleoptera: Cerambycidae). We continually sampled populations within 
177 trees at primarily two sites in the Ozark National Forest in Arkansas 
throughout three (2-yr) generations. The first cohort (adults emerged in 2003) 
was sampled during a severe population outbreak, whereas the second and third 
(2005 and 2007) were sampled during the population crash that followed. 
Generation mortality was 94% in 2003 and 99% in both 2005 and 2007. Estimates of 
apparent mortality indicated that the E. rufulus population crash likely 
occurred during or before the first overwintering period (2003-2004) of the 
generation that emerged as adults in 2005. We found limited evidence for density 
dependent mortality, which suggest that intraspecific competition after the 
first active feeding period was apparently not an important mortality factor 
during E. rufulus development. Life tables revealed that E. rufulus larvae 
generally experienced the greatest apparent mortality during the second summer 
of active feeding (80-94%) when larvae were feeding in, and moving between 
phloem and sapwood. The least apparent mortality was incurred during the 
following spring and early summer (26-67%) when late stage larvae and pupae were 
deepest and most protected within sapwood or heartwood tunnels. We found very 
little evidence for mortality from associated species. Scarring of vascular 
tissue in response to E. rufulus feeding occurred during early life stages and 
may be an important tree resistance mechanism and E. rufulus mortality factor.

DOI: 10.1603/EN12212
PMID: 23321078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. World Neurosurg. 2014 Jul-Aug;82(1-2):230-8. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.01.041.
 Epub 2013 Jan 12.

Minimally invasive versus open transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion for 
degenerative spondylolisthesis: comparative effectiveness and cost-utility 
analysis.

Parker SL(1), Mendenhall SK(1), Shau DN(1), Zuckerman SL(1), Godil SS(1), Cheng 
JS(1), McGirt MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA; Vanderbilt Spinal Column Surgical Quality and Outcomes Research 
Laboratory, Nashville, Tennessee, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA; Vanderbilt Spinal Column Surgical Quality and Outcomes Research 
Laboratory, Nashville, Tennessee, USA. Electronic address: 
matt.mcgirt@vanderbilt.edu.

Comment in
    World Neurosurg. 2014 Jul-Aug;82(1-2):65-7.

BACKGROUND: Minimally invasive transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion (MIS TLIF) 
for lumbar spondylolisthesis allows for the surgical treatment of back/leg pain 
while minimizing tissue injury and accelerating the patient's recovery. Although 
previous results have shown shorter hospital stays and decreased intraoperative 
blood loss for MIS versus open TLIF, short- and long-term outcomes have been 
similar. Therefore, we performed comparative effectiveness and cost-utility 
analysis for MIS versus open TLIF.
METHODS: A total of 100 patients (50 MIS, 50 open) undergoing TLIF for lumbar 
spondylolisthesis were prospectively studied. Back-related medical resource use, 
missed work, and quality-adjusted life years were assessed. Cost of in-patient 
care, direct cost (2-year resource use × unit costs based on Medicare national 
allowable payment amounts), and indirect cost (work-day losses × self-reported 
gross-of-tax wage rate) were recorded, and the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio was calculated.
RESULTS: Length of hospitalization and time to return to work were less for MIS 
versus open TLIF (P = 0.006 and P = 0.03, respectively). MIS versus open TLIF 
demonstrated similar improvement in patient-reported outcomes assessed. MIS 
versus open TLIF was associated with a reduction in mean hospital cost of $1758, 
indirect cost of $8474, and total 2-year societal cost of $9295 (P = 0.03) but 
similar 2-year direct health care cost and quality-adjusted life years gained.
CONCLUSIONS: MIS TLIF resulted in reduced operative blood loss, hospital stay 
and 2-year cost, and accelerated return to work. Surgical morbidity, hospital 
readmission, and short- and long-term clinical effectiveness were similar 
between MIS and open TLIF. MIS TLIF may represent a valuable and cost-saving 
advancement from a societal and hospital perspective.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.01.041
PMID: 23321379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Breast. 2013 Apr;22(2):142-149. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2012.12.015. Epub 2013
Jan  12.

Aromatase inhibitors in the treatment of elderly women with metastatic breast 
cancer.

Glück S(1), von Minckwitz G(2), Untch M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Sylvester 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Miami, Leonard M. Miller School of 
Medicine, 1475 NW 12th Ave, Miami, FL 33136, USA. Electronic address: 
sgluck@med.miami.edu.
(2)German Breast Group, c/o GBG Forschungs GmbH, Neu-Isenburg and University 
Women's Hospital, Frankfurt, Germany.
(3)Clinic for Gynecology, Gynecologic Oncology and Obstetrics, HELIOS Klinikum 
Berlin-Buch, Berlin, Germany.

The proportion of elderly women in the population is rising, and in tandem, the 
incidence of breast cancer rises with age. Because of health and tolerability 
concerns, as well as life expectancy, physicians may be reluctant to advise a 
standard treatment regimen for elderly patients with metastatic breast cancer. 
To elucidate this issue, we performed a literature review of clinical studies 
that included women with metastatic breast cancer who were over the age of 65. 
Our results show that although little clinical evidence exists, what is 
available suggests that standard treatment is tolerated and beneficial for 
patients meeting certain criteria. A geriatric assessment may identify specific 
patient groups (independent, dependent, or frail) and thereby guide treatment. 
Treatment recommendations for elderly patients with metastatic breast cancer are 
sparse, although first-line endocrine treatment, usually aromatase inhibitors or 
tamoxifen, is recommended for hormone-sensitive disease. In general, the 
evidence from clinical studies suggests that aromatase inhibitors are more 
effective than either tamoxifen or megestrol acetate as first- or second-line 
treatment in postmenopausal women with metastatic breast cancer. Ultimately, 
quality of life, treatment effects, and comorbidities are important aspects in 
this population and may guide treatment choice. To provide evidence-based 
treatment guidance, future clinical trials should include more patients over the 
age of 65 years.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2012.12.015
PMID: 23321585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Thorax. 2013 May;68(5):442-50. doi: 10.1136/thoraxjnl-2012-202592. Epub 2013
Jan  15.

Efficacy and safety of adjunctive anticoagulation in patients with lung cancer 
without indication for anticoagulants: a systematic review and meta-analysis.

Zhang J(1), Zhang YL, Ma KX, Qu JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Zhongshan Hospital, Shanghai Medical 
College, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.

BACKGROUND: Patients with lung cancer are at high risk of venous thromboembolism 
(VTE), and VTE predicts a poor prognosis. Anticoagulation therefore might be 
beneficial for these patients. It is not clear whether anticoagulants could 
improve survival and other outcomes in patients with lung cancer with no 
indication for anticoagulation.
METHODS: We searched the Web of Science, Medline, EMBASE and Cochrane databases 
for relevant studies. Two reviewers evaluated the studies and extracted data 
independently. The primary outcomes were 1-year survival and incidence of VTE. 
Pooled risk ratios (RR) were calculated using control as a reference group and 
significance was determined by the Z test.
RESULTS: Nine eligible studies with 2185 participants were included. 
Anticoagulation showed significant improvement in survival at 1 year (RR 1.18, 
95% CI 1.06 to 1.32; p=0.004) and at 2 years (RR 1.27, 95% CI 1.04 to 1.56; 
p=0.02), but not at 6 months. Subgroup analysis showed a survival benefit for 
patients with small cell lung cancer (SCLC) and those with non-advanced/limited 
cancer. The incidence of VTE (RR=0.55, 95% CI 0.31 to 0.97; p=0.04) and 
thromboembolic events (RR=0.48, 95% CI 0.28 to 0.82; p=0.008) was reduced with 
anticoagulation. Both vitamin K antagonist (VKA) and subcutaneous heparin 
increased the risk of haemorrhage, but heparin did not increase the incidence of 
major bleeding.
CONCLUSIONS: Anticoagulation showed a survival benefit, especially for those 
with SCLC and prolonged life expectancy, and reduced the risk of VTE in lung 
cancer patients with no indication for anticoagulants. Subcutaneous heparin is 
superior to VKA because of a potentially smaller risk of major bleeding.

DOI: 10.1136/thoraxjnl-2012-202592
PMID: 23321607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Eur J Hum Genet. 2013 Sep;21(9):1016-9. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2012.294. Epub 2013
 Jan 16.

The population prevalence of Down's syndrome in England and Wales in 2011.

Wu J(1), Morris JK.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Environmental and Preventive Medicine, Wolfson Institute of 
Preventive Medicine, Barts and the London School of Medicine and Dentistry, 
Queen Mary University of London, London, UK.

Erratum in
    Eur J Hum Genet. 2013 Sep;21(9):1033-4.

There is uncertainty over the population prevalence of people with Down's 
syndrome in England and Wales. This study aimed to estimate the population 
prevalence of Down's syndrome in England and Wales in 2011. A meta-analysis of 
published survival rates of people with Down's syndrome from 1938 to 2010 was 
conducted and the results were applied to the estimated numbers of babies born 
with Down's syndrome since 1938 in England and Wales. An estimated 37 090 people 
had Down's syndrome in England and Wales in 2011, a population prevalence of 
0.66 per 1000 people; 650 under 1, 2673 aged 1-5, 7115 aged 5-18, 12819 aged 
19-40, 10 626 aged 41-55 and 3207 aged 56 and older. The average life expectancy 
for babies with Down's syndrome born in 2011 was 51 years and the median life 
expectancy was 58 years. This study provides clarity on the number of people 
with Down's syndrome in England and Wales. Owing to sudden increases in the 
survival of babies with Down's syndrome in the 1950s there are a large 
proportion of people with Down's syndrome who are in their 40s. These people 
have an increased risk of developing dementia in the future and services should 
be aware of their potential needs.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2012.294
PMCID: PMC3746270
PMID: 23321618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2013 Apr;9(4):928-31. doi: 10.4161/hv.23514. Epub 2013
 Jan 15.

Scientific challenges and opportunities in developing novel vaccines for the 
emerging and developing markets: New Technologies in Emerging Markets, October 
16th-18th 2012, World Vaccine Congress, Lyon.

Kochhar S(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research & Drug Development Specialist; PATH; New Delhi, India.

Vaccines have had a major role in enhancing the quality of life and increasing 
life expectancy. Despite these successes and the development of new vaccine 
technologies, there remain multiple infectious diseases including AIDS, malaria 
and tuberculosis that require effective prophylactic vaccines. New and 
traditional technologies have a role in the development and delivery of the new 
vaccine candidates. The scientific challenges, opportunities and funding models 
for developing vaccines for low resource settings are highlighted here.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.23514
PMCID: PMC3903916
PMID: 23322007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. Am J Perinatol. 2013 Oct;30(9):759-64. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1332797. Epub 2013
 Jan 15.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of rubella screening strategies using electronic 
medical records.

Straub HL(1), Antoniewicz LW, Riggs JW, Plunkett BA, Hollier LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, NorthShore University HealthSystem, 
Evanston, Illinois.

OBJECTIVE: The redundancy of routine laboratory tests in medicine has become 
increasingly more apparent in the age of electronic medical records (EMRs). The 
purpose of this study was to determine whether targeted screening strategies are 
more cost-effective than the current standard of universal screening of pregnant 
women for immunity to rubella.
STUDY DESIGN: A decision analysis model was used to evaluate three strategies: 
universal screening, screening if a previous titer was not available, and use of 
an "alert" in the EMR to prompt screening. Cost, probability, and utility values 
were derived from the literature and institutional data from Lyndon B. Johnson 
General Hospital. One-way sensitivity analyses were performed on all cost and 
probability values.
RESULTS: The strategy of an EMR alert was most cost-effective, with a cost of 
$0.27 per quality-adjusted life years (QALY). The model was robust to all costs 
and probability values over their respective ranges.
CONCLUSIONS: Although all strategies were cost-effective compared with 
traditional industry benchmarks of $50,000/QALY, the EMR alert strategy is most 
cost-effective. Implementing an EMR alert may lead to a more cost-effective 
approach to prenatal evaluation of rubella immunity.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1332797
PMID: 23322389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2013 Jan;138(4):119-25. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1327416.
Epub  2013 Jan 15.

[Roflumilast in combination with long-acting bronchodilators in the management 
of patients with severe and very severe COPD. A cost-effectiveness analysis for 
Germany].

[Article in German]

Nowak D(1), Ehlken B, Kotchie R, Wecht S, Magnussen H.

Author information:
(1)Institut und Poliklinik für Arbeits-, Sozial- und Umweltmedizin, München. 
Dennis.Nowak@med.uni-muenchen.de

OBJECTIVE: To calculate the cost-effectiveness of roflumilast in combination 
with a long-acting beta agonist (LABA) versus LABA as a monotherapy in patients 
with severe and very severe COPD in Germany.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of Roflumilast plus LABA vs. LABA as monotherapy 
was calculated by a long-term model (Markov). The effectiveness data are based 
on the clinical trials AURA and HERMES (M2-124 and M2-125). Roflumilast plus 
LABA compared to LABA monotherapy reduced the exacerbation rate by 20.7 % (95 % 
CI, -31,-9) and improved post-bronchodilator FEV1 by 46 ml (2). These data were 
used to calculate the mean life expectancy of the COPD cohort (start age: 64 
years). Costs for the treatment of exacerbations in the inpatient setting and 
the outpatient setting were included in the model. Endpoints were incremental 
costs per avoided exacerbation and per quality adjusted life year (QALY). The 
input variables were addressed in sensitivity analyses. German data on 
epidemiology and management of COPD were to populate the model and the 
cost-effectiveness was analyzed from the perspective of German statutory health 
insurance (SHI).
RESULTS: The model predicts a mean life expectancy of 8.1 years for patients 
with roflumilast plus LABA and 7.8 years for patients with LABA alone. This 
corresponds with a gain of 0.26 life years or 0.23 QALYs. Within this time span 
patients receiving roflumilast plus LABA experienced 2.43 exacerbations less 
than the comparator group. The incremental cost for roflumilast plus LABA is 
€1,852 per exacerbation avoided and €19,457 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: The model calculation indicates that the cost-effectiveness of 
roflumilast as an add-on to LABA in patients with severe and very severe COPD is 
comparable to the cost-effectiveness of established and reimbursed treatment 
options in Germany. Analogue consideration of the cost-effectiveness of the 
treatment options LAMA, LABA and ICS are advisable.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1327416
PMID: 23322425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Paediatr Drugs. 2013 Feb;15(1):49-58. doi: 10.1007/s40272-012-0006-0.

Counting the cost of meningococcal disease : scenarios of severe meningitis and 
septicemia.

Wright C(1), Wordsworth R, Glennie L.

Author information:
(1)Meningitis Research Foundation, Midland Way, Bristol, BS35 2BS, UK. 
clairew@meningitis.org

BACKGROUND: Meningococcal disease can result in severe disabling sequelae, but 
there is no published information about the lifelong rehabilitation costs of 
patients with severe outcome in the UK. As cost-effectiveness studies play a 
crucial role in determining whether immunization programmes will be implemented, 
it is important to identify these costs.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to estimate lifelong rehabilitation costs 
associated with severe cases of meningococcal disease and to present these costs 
in a format appropriate for use in a cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHODS: Two severe scenarios of meningococcal disease with major sequelae were 
developed; one that presented acutely as meningitis and the other as septicemia. 
Scenarios were based on systematic reviews of the literature describing the 
sequelae of meningococcal disease, dialogue with Meningitis Research Foundation 
members who have experience of the disease, and discussions with pediatricians 
who have been responsible for managing children with this disease over many 
years. The two scenarios were devised to represent cases typical of the severe 
end of the spectrum. To obtain a comprehensive list of the health, educational 
and other resources used by survivors during and since their acute illness, 
families of individuals with sequelae similar to those in each of our scenarios 
were interviewed. Relevant academics and professionals in health, social care 
and education were consulted in order to ensure that our scenarios accurately 
represented the treatment and support that individuals with such sequelae might 
realistically receive from the National Health Service (NHS), the local 
authority and Personal Social Services (PSS). The majority of costs were derived 
from English Department of Health reference costs and unit costs of health and 
social care reflecting values for the financial year 2008-2009 indexed to 
2010-2011. Costs were based on a life expectancy of 70 years in each scenario 
and are presented at a discount rate of 3.5 % for the first 30 years and 3 % 
thereafter, as recommended by the UK treasury (non-discounted costs are also 
presented for comparison). Costs are presented from both an NHS/PSS perspective 
and a government perspective.
RESULTS: This study has revealed that severe cases of disease that result in 
long-term sequelae can result in costs to the NHS/PSS of around 
£160,000-£200,000 in the first year alone. Over a lifetime of 70 years, 
discounted costs from an NHS/PSS perspective ranged from approximately £590,000 
to £1,090,000 (£1,250,000-£3,320,000 undiscounted) and discounted costs from a 
government perspective ranged from £1,360,000 to £1,720,000 
(£3,030,000-£4,470,000 undiscounted).
CONCLUSION: This study fills a gap in the UK literature and produces estimates 
that can be used in cost-effectiveness analysis to better represent the cost of 
illness at the severe end of the spectrum. Costs from a government perspective 
highlight the wider impacts of this disease, which is important for clinical 
decision makers, and budgetary and service planners to be aware of when making 
decisions about the benefits of implementing public health interventions such as 
immunization programmes.

DOI: 10.1007/s40272-012-0006-0
PMID: 23322553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Apr;31(4):257-67. doi: 10.1007/s40273-012-0021-6.

Korean guidelines for pharmacoeconomic evaluation (second and updated version) : 
consensus and compromise.

Bae S(1), Lee S, Bae EY, Jang S.

Author information:
(1)Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service, Research and Development 
Center, 1451-34, Seocho-3dong, Seocho-gu, Seoul, 137-926, The Republic of Korea. 
genice@hiramail.net

The first version of the Korean guidelines for pharmacoeconomic evaluation was 
published by Health Insurance Review and Assessment Service (HIRA) in 2006. 
Since the introduction of the first version, domestic experience with the 
application of the recommendations has accumulated, and methodologies in certain 
areas have progressed considerably. Based on these experiences, HIRA initiated a 
guidelines revision project to address the need for revisions. The purpose of 
this study is to share the process used to complete these guideline revisions 
and to provide the contents of the revised guidelines. In developing the current 
revision, meetings with the advisory committee and working-level meetings with 
pharmaceutical companies were held several times to reach as much of a consensus 
as possible, and the results of a survey of pharmaceutical companies and 
decision makers regarding the existing guidelines were considered. The second 
version of the guidelines clarified the level of data requirement ('must', 
'recommended', 'preferred') based on the data availability, the information 
needs of the decision makers and the strength of the evidence. The recommended 
perspective economic studies should take has been modified and additional 
guidance has been provided on QALY measurement. Manuals for systematic reviews 
and indirect comparisons have been published, and a standardized reporting 
format for expert opinions has been added. Sections on preferred methods for 
evaluations, sensitivity analysis, modelling and time horizon have been 
elucidated. The revised guidelines clarify the expression of the 
recommendations, making them more user-friendly, and provide more specific 
guidance to improve the quality and comparability across submissions.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-012-0021-6
PMID: 23322587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Mod Healthc. 2012 Dec 17;42(51):22.

No answers in quick fixes. Rigorous vetting can lead to solutions for concerns 
over Medicare, Medicaid.

Goozner M.

PMID: 23323348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Health Serv J. 2012 Oct 25;122(6326):24.

A fair deal for older people.

Mitchell M(1), Williams N.

Author information:
(1)Age UK.

PMID: 23323510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. Ther Deliv. 2013 Jan;4(1):77-94. doi: 10.4155/tde.12.139.

Intelligent drug-delivery devices based on micro- and nano-technologies.

Chi AH(1), Clayton K, Burrow TJ, Lewis R, Luciano D, Alexis F, D'hers S, Elman 
NM.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Soldier Nanotechnologies, Massachusetts Institute of 
Technology, Cambridge, MA, USA.

This review focuses on the current drug-delivery modalities in R&D, as well as 
commercially available. Intelligent drug-delivery systems are described as novel 
technological innovations and clinical approaches to improve conventional 
treatments. These systems differ in methodology of therapeutic administration, 
intricacy, materials and patient compliance to address numerous clinical 
conditions that require various pharmacological therapies. These systems have 
been primarily described as active and passive microelectrical mechanical system 
devices, injectors and nanoparticle-based therapies, optimized to tailor 
specific pharmacokinetic profiles. The most critical considerations for the 
design of these intelligent delivery systems include the controlled release, 
target specificity, on-demand dosage adjustment, mass transfer and stability of 
the pharmacological agents. Drug-delivery systems continue to be developed and 
enhanced to provide better and more sophisticated treatments, promising an 
improvement in quality of life and extension of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.4155/tde.12.139
PMID: 23323782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


75. Curr Opin Cardiol. 2013 Mar;28(2):242-8. doi: 10.1097/HCO.0b013e32835dd165.

Current state of cardiac amyloidosis.

Sharma N(1), Howlett J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Sciences, University of Calgary and Libin 
Cardiovascular Institute of Alberta, Canada.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Cardiac amyloidosis, an infiltrative restrictive 
cardiomyopathy once thought to be universally fatal, is now increasingly 
recognized as less rare than previously thought. This update is intended to 
provide a review of newer aspects of the presentation, diagnosis and treatment 
of cardiac amyloidosis.
RECENT FINDINGS: Amyloid involvement of the heart is increasingly seen, 
especially in the elderly population. Recent data suggest life expectancy has 
increased from 6 to 16-20 months in the most common subtype, AL amyloid. The 
clinical presentation is typically one of heart failure in the setting of normal 
or low normal ejection fraction, inappropriate ventricular hypertrophy and 
atrial enlargement with or without atrial fibrillation. Diagnosis is now most 
often made by cardiac MRI, with 2D echocardiography serving more of a screening 
role in patients with heart failure or a similar family history. The gold 
standard diagnostic test is right-ventricular biopsy, which demonstrates 
positivity for Congo Red staining. Due to a propensity for disease progression, 
typically low systemic blood pressure, frequent extra-cardiac involvement and 
autonomic dysfunction, cardiac amyloidosis is difficult to treat due to poor 
tolerance of most cardiovascular medication and poor outcome for 
transplantation. Newer therapies such as bortezomib, usually given to patients 
with multiple myeloma and serum light chains, are promising in controlling 
amyloidosis.
CONCLUSION: Recent advances in diagnosis and treatment of amyloid are associated 
with improved prognosis. Newer therapies offer future benefits.

DOI: 10.1097/HCO.0b013e32835dd165
PMID: 23324855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Demography. 2013 Aug;50(4):1341-62. doi: 10.1007/s13524-012-0185-x.

Including the smoking epidemic in internationally coherent mortality 
projections.

Janssen F(1), van Wissen LJ, Kunst AE.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Centre, University of Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands. f.janssen@rug.nl

We present a new mortality projection methodology that distinguishes smoking- 
and non-smoking-related mortality and takes into account mortality trends of the 
opposite sex and in other countries. We evaluate to what extent future 
projections of life expectancy at birth (e 0) for the Netherlands up to 2040 are 
affected by the application of these components. All-cause mortality and 
non-smoking-related mortality for the years 1970-2006 are projected by the 
Lee-Carter and Li-Lee methodologies. Smoking-related mortality is projected 
according to assumptions on future smoking-attributable mortality. Projecting 
all-cause mortality in the Netherlands, using the Lee-Carter model, leads to 
high gains in e 0 (4.1 for males; 4.4 for females) and divergence between the 
sexes. Coherent projections, which include the mortality experience of the other 
21 sex- and country-specific populations, result in much higher gains for males 
(6.4) and females (5.7), and convergence. The separate projection of smoking and 
non-smoking-related mortality produces a steady increase in e 0 for males (4.8) 
and a nonlinear trend for females, with lower gains in e 0 in the short run, 
resulting in temporary sex convergence. The latter effect is also found in 
coherent projections. Our methodology provides more robust projections, 
especially thanks to the distinction between smoking- and non-smoking-related 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-012-0185-x
PMID: 23325722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. J Med Assoc Thai. 2012 Sep;95 Suppl 9:S87-94.

Surgical management of spinal metastases: the postoperative quality of life.

Tangpatanasombat C(1), Sanpakit S, Suratkarndawadee S, Wattanaapisit T, 
Chotigavanichaya C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine Siriraj Hospital, 
Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: The surgical treatment of spinal metastases remains controversial. 
Increasing life expectancy has resulted in greater interest in overall quality 
of life, pain and neurologic improvements. There are few prospective studies on 
functional and quality of life outcomes in patients with vertebral metastases. 
Therefore, the authors conducted the prospective study evaluating the clinical, 
neurologic function and quality of life after surgery in these patients.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: Fifty-two patients undergoing surgical treatment for spinal 
metastases during October 2007 to October 2009 were prospectively evaluated. 
Surgical intervention included neurological decompression,fusion and spinal 
instrumentation. Pre- and post-operative assessments at 1st month, 3rd month and 
6th month were performed using a visual analog scale, the modified Frankel grade 
classification and a Shortform-36 (SF-36).
RESULTS: Pain scores were improved significantly at all post-operative time 
points (p < 0.001). The neurological functions were improved at 1st month (p < 
0.001), 3rd month (p < 0.001) and 6th month (p = 0.260) postoperatively. At 1st 
month after surgery, 40 patients (76.9%) had improvement in quality of life. 
However, at 3rd month postoperatively, there were 31 patients (59.6%) improved. 
At 6th month postoperatively, only 15 patients (28.8%) were improved. Internal 
organ metastases was the only factor that related to the reduction of quality of 
life at 1 month, 3rd month (p < 0.001) and 6th month (p < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: Patients with spinal metastases will have benefit from palliative 
surgery in significant pain reduction and neurological recovery. As the global 
assessment in the quality of life, the patients may have the improvement at 1st 
month postoperatively but after 3 months and 6 months postoperatively, selected 
patients may have benefit from the surgery and the factors such as internal 
organ metastases and primary site of cancer have great effects on the 
improvement in the quality of life. This data may be useful for counseling the 
patients and relatives about the prognosis and expected surgical outcome before 
surgical intervention is decided.

PMID: 23326988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Am J Public Health. 2013 Mar;103(3):523-8. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2012.301148.
Epub  2013 Jan 17.

The dose-response of time served in prison on mortality: New York State, 
1989-2003.

Patterson EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Vanderbilt University, Nashville, TN 37235-1811, 
USA. evelyn.patterson@vanderbilt.edu

OBJECTIVES: I investigated the differential impact of the dose-response of 
length of stay on postprison mortality among parolees.
METHODS: Using 1989-2003 New York State parole administrative data from the 
Bureau of Justice Statistics on state correctional facilities, I employed 
multinomial logistic regression analyses and formal demographic techniques that 
used the life table of the populations to deduce changes in life expectancy.
RESULTS: Each additional year in prison produced a 15.6% increase in the odds of 
death for parolees, which translated to a 2-year decline in life expectancy for 
each year served in prison. The risk was highest upon release from prison and 
declined over time. The time to recovery, or the lowest risk level, was 
approximately two thirds of the time served in prison.
CONCLUSIONS: Incarceration reduces life span. Future research should investigate 
the pathways to this higher mortality and the possibilities of recovery.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2012.301148
PMCID: PMC3673515
PMID: 23327272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. BMC Fam Pract. 2013 Jan 18;14:12. doi: 10.1186/1471-2296-14-12.

Cost-effectiveness of supported self-management for CFS/ME patients in primary 
care.

Richardson G(1), Epstein D, Chew-Graham C, Dowrick C, Bentall RP, Morriss RK, 
Peters S, Riste L, Lovell K, Dunn G, Wearden AJ; FINE Trial Writing group on 
behalf of the FINE Trial group.

Collaborators: Bennett C, Bentall R, Booth L, Brocki J, Cahill G, Chapman A, 
Chew-Graham C, Connell S, Dowrick C, Dunn G, Fleetwood D, Ibbotson L, Jerman D, 
Lovell K, Mann J, Morriss R, Peters S, Powell P, Quarmby D, Richardson G, Riste 
L, Wearden A, Williams J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Hull/York Medical 
School,York YO10 5DD, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Nurse led self-help treatments for people with chronic fatigue 
syndrome/myalgic encephalitis (CFS/ME) have been shown to be effective in 
reducing fatigue but their cost-effectiveness is unknown.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis conducted alongside a single blind 
randomised controlled trial comparing pragmatic rehabilitation (PR) and 
supportive listening (SL) delivered by primary care nurses, and treatment as 
usual (TAU) delivered by the general practitioner (GP) in North West England. A 
within trial analysis was conducted comparing the costs and quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs) measured within the time frame of the trial. 296 patients 
aged 18 and over with CFS/ME diagnosed using the Oxford criteria were included 
in the cost-effectiveness analysis.
RESULTS: Treatment as usual is less expensive and leads to better patient 
outcomes compared with Supportive Listening. Treatment as usual is also less 
expensive than Pragmatic Rehabilitation. PR was effective at reducing fatigue in 
the short term, but the impact of the intervention on QALYs was uncertain. 
However, based on the results of this trial, PR is unlikely to be cost-effective 
in this patient population.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis does not support the introduction of SL. Any benefits 
generated by PR are unlikely to be of sufficient magnitude to warrant 
recommending PR for this patient group on cost-effectiveness grounds alone. 
However, dissatisfaction with current treatment options means simply continuing 
with 'treatment as usual' in primary care is unlikely to be acceptable to 
patients and practitioners.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial registration number is IRCTN74156610.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2296-14-12
PMCID: PMC3556109
PMID: 23327355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Am J Manag Care. 2012 Dec;18(14 Suppl):S350-9.

Economic burden and current managed care challenges associated with hepatitis C.

Mathis AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, NJ, USA. 
smathis@barnabashealth.org

Infection with hepatitis C virus (HCV) is associated with significant morbidity, 
mortality, and economic burden. However, HCV infection is challenging to treat, 
because it is underdiagnosed and undertreated. When patients receive standard 
therapies, sustained virological response is usually achieved in less than 50% 
of cases. Newer therapies improve the virological and liverrelated outcomes 
associated with HCV, but at an increased cost of treatment. Because the economic 
burden of HCV extends beyond treatment costs, clinicians, patients, and managed 
care professionals must understand the cost-effectiveness of HCV treatment. 
Improvements in adherence and the delivery of effective care can promote 
costeffective management due to reductions in long-term disease-related 
complications, such as hospitalization, liver transplantation, and death.

PMID: 23327541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Prev Chronic Dis. 2013;10:120160. doi: 10.5888/pcd10.120160.

So what? A framework for assessing the potential impact of intervention 
research.

Fielding JE(1), Teutsch SM.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Los Angeles, School of Medicine, Los Angeles, 
California, USA.

DOI: 10.5888/pcd10.120160
PMCID: PMC3547665
PMID: 23327829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Clin Ther. 2013 Jan;35(1):54-65. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.12.013.

Cost-effectiveness of continuation maintenance pemetrexed after cisplatin and 
pemetrexed chemotherapy for advanced nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer: 
estimates from the perspective of the Chinese health care system.

Zeng X(1), Peng L, Li J, Chen G, Tan C, Wang S, Wan X, Ouyang L, Zhao Z.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Central South University, Changsha Hunan, 
People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: Continuation maintenance treatment with pemetrexed is approved by 
current clinical guidelines as a category 2A recommendation after induction 
therapy with cisplatin and pemetrexed chemotherapy (CP strategy) for patients 
with advanced nonsquamous non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). However, the 
cost-effectiveness of the treatment remains unclear.
OBJECTIVE: We completed a trial-based assessment, from the perspective of the 
Chinese health care system, of the cost-effectiveness of maintenance pemetrexed 
treatment after a CP strategy for patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to estimate costs and benefits. It was 
based on a clinical trial that compared continuation maintenance pemetrexed 
therapy plus best supportive care (BSC) versus placebo plus BSC after a CP 
strategy for advanced nonsquamous NSCLC. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to 
assess the stability of the model.
RESULTS: The model base case analysis suggested that continuation maintenance 
pemetrexed therapy after a CP strategy would increase benefits in a 1-, 2-, 5-, 
or 10-year time horizon, with incremental costs of $183,589.06, $126,353.16, 
$124,766.68, and $124,793.12 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, 
respectively. The most sensitive influential variable in the cost-effectiveness 
analysis was the utility of the progression-free survival state, followed by 
proportion of patients with postdiscontinuation therapy in both arms, proportion 
of BSC costs for PFS versus progressed survival state, and cost of pemetrexed. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that the cost-effective probability 
of adding continuation maintenance pemetrexed therapy to BSC was zero. One-way 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses revealed that the Markov model was 
robust.
CONCLUSIONS: Continuation maintenance of pemetrexed after a CP strategy for 
patients with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC is not cost-effective based on a recent 
clinical trial. Decreasing the price or adjusting the dosage of pemetrexed may 
be a better option for meeting the treatment demands of Chinese patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2012.12.013
PMID: 23328269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Med Princ Pract. 2013;22(2):101-2. doi: 10.1159/000346294. Epub 2013 Jan 10.

What's new in spine surgery.

Hobbs J(1), Bina R, Dohrmann G, Roitberg B.

Author information:
(1)Section of Neurosurgery, Department of Surgery, University of Chicago Medical 
Center, Chicago, IL, USA.

DOI: 10.1159/000346294
PMCID: PMC5586728
PMID: 23328415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. JAMA Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2013 Jan;139(1):54-8. doi: 
10.1001/jamaoto.2013.1063.

Restricting indications for sinonasal computed tomography in children with 
cystic fibrosis.

Cavel O(1), Quintal MC, Marcotte JÉ, Garel L, Froehlich P.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Otorhinolaryngology, Sainte-Justine University Hospital, 
University of Montreal, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. orencavel@gmail.com

OBJECTIVES To evaluate whether a low rate of exposure to sinonasal computed 
tomographic (CT) scans can be achieved when strict criteria are applied for 
their use in children with cystic fibrosis (CF) and to emphasize the importance 
of limiting radiation exposure in the context of the current longer life 
expectancy in this group of patients. DESIGN Retrospective chart review. SETTING 
Tertiary care children's hospital. PATIENTS The study included 277 children who 
were regularly followed up in the CF clinic in the last 11 years (mean duration 
of follow up, 7.87 years), 33 of whom underwent sinonasal CT. MAIN OUTCOME 
MEASURES Indications used for scanning, health professional (ear, nose, and 
throat specialist or pulmonologist) ordering the test, eventual modifications of 
ongoing treatment according to CT results, and time lapse between CT scanning 
and surgery. RESULTS Of 277 children with CF, 33 (12%) underwent a total of 39 
sinonasal CT scans during the follow-up period (0.018 scans per patient per year 
of follow-up). Twenty-nine of the CT scans (74% of all cases, 90% of CT scans 
ordered by the ear, nose, and throat surgeon) were performed in the preoperative 
context and demonstrated the extent of the polypoid disease whenever present (26 
cases [90%]) and the cause of nasal obstruction (20 cases [69%]). The mean 
period between the scanning and the surgery was 57 days (range, 0.10-173 days). 
Computed tomographic scans that were not meant for preoperative planning were 
performed in 10 cases (26%). The indications were disease evaluation (10%), 
ruling out a mucocele (5%); pre-lung transplantation status (5%), ruling out an 
intraorbital complication (3%); and headache investigation (3%). The results of 
the scans did not modify the management of the disease in those patients. 
CONCLUSIONS With the use of stringent criteria, it is possible to achieve a low 
rate of exposure to sinonasal CT scans in the population of children with CF. 
The main indication should be the preoperative planning regarding anatomy, 
extent of disease, and sites of nasal obstruction. The use of CT scans for 
disease evaluation does not seem to appreciably modify the treatment course and 
could be avoided.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoto.2013.1063
PMID: 23329091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Lifetime Data Anal. 2013 Jul;19(3):279-96. doi: 10.1007/s10985-013-9242-z.
Epub  2013 Jan 18.

On collapsibility and confounding bias in Cox and Aalen regression models.

Martinussen T(1), Vansteelandt S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Copenhagen, Øster Farimagsgade 5B, 
1014, Copenhagen K, Denmark. tma@sund.ku.dk

We study the situation where it is of interest to estimate the effect of an 
exposure variable [Formula: see text] on a survival time response [Formula: see 
text] in the presence of confounding by measured variables [Formula: see text]. 
Quantifying the amount of confounding is complicated by the non-collapsibility 
or non-linearity of typical effect measures in survival analysis: survival 
analyses with or without adjustment for [Formula: see text] typically infer 
different effect estimands of a different magnitude, even when [Formula: see 
text] is not associated with the exposure, and henceforth not a confounder of 
the association between exposure and survival time. We show that, interestingly, 
the exposure coefficient indexing the Aalen additive hazards model is not 
subject to such non-collapsibility, unlike the corresponding coefficient 
indexing the Cox model, so that simple measures of the amount of confounding 
bias are obtainable for the Aalen hazards model, but not for the Cox model. We 
argue that various other desirable properties can be ascribed to the Aalen model 
as a result of this collapsibility. This work generalizes recent work by Janes 
et al. (Biostatistics 11:572-582, 2010).

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-013-9242-z
PMID: 23329123 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Jan;31(1):1-10. doi: 10.1007/s40273-012-0001-x.

Operationalizing value-based pricing of medicines : a taxonomy of approaches.

Sussex J(1), Towse A, Devlin N.

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, 7th Floor, Southside, 105 Victoria Street, 
London, SW1E 6QT, UK. jsussex@ohe.org

The UK Government is proposing a novel form of price regulation for branded 
medicines, which it has dubbed 'value-based pricing' (VBP). The specifics of how 
VBP will work are unclear. We provide an account of the possible means by which 
VBP of medicines might be operationalized, and a taxonomy to describe and 
categorize the various approaches. We begin with a brief discussion of the UK 
Government's proposal for VBP and proceed to define a taxonomy of approaches to 
VBP. The taxonomy has five main dimensions: (1) what is identified as being of 
value, (2) how each element is measured, (3) how it is valued, (4) how the 
different elements of value are aggregated, and (5) how the result is then used 
to determine the price of a medicine. We take as our starting point that VBP 
will include a measure of health gain and that, as proposed by the UK 
Government, this will be built on the QALY. Our principal interest is in the way 
criteria other than QALYs are taken into account, including severity of illness, 
the extent of unmet need, and wider societal considerations such as impacts on 
carers. We set out to: (1) identify and describe the full range of alternative 
means by which 'value' might be measured and valued, (2) identify and describe 
the options available for aggregating the different components of value to 
establish a maximum price, and (3) note the challenges and relative advantages 
associated with these approaches. We review the means by which aspects of VBP 
are currently operationalized in a selection of countries and place these, and 
proposals for the UK, in the context of our taxonomy. Finally, we give an 
initial assessment of the challenges, pros and cons of each approach. We 
conclude that identifying where VBP should lie on each of the five dimensions 
entails value judgements: there are no simple 'right or wrong' solutions. If a 
wider definition of value than incremental QALYs gained is adopted, as is 
desirable, then a pragmatic way to aggregate the different elements of value, 
including both QALYs and benefits unrelated to QALYs, is to use a multi-criteria 
decision analysis (MCDA) approach. All approaches to VBP ultimately require the 
conversion of value, however assessed, into a monetary price. This requires 
assessment of the marginal values of all types of benefit, not just of QALYs. 
All stages of the VBP process are subject to uncertainty and margins of error. 
Consequently, the assessment of overall value can provide bounds to a price 
negotiation but cannot be expected to identify a precise value-based price.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-012-0001-x
PMID: 23329588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Harefuah. 2012 Dec;151(12):705-8, 719.

[Guidelines for diagnosis and management of cirrhotic ascites and its 
complications. The Israeli Association for the Study of the Liver].

[Article in Hebrew]

Sikuler E(1), Ackerman Z, Braun M, Baruch Y, Bruck R, Safadi R, Shlomai A, 
Ben-Ari Z; Israeli Association for the Study of the Liver.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine B and The Liver-Clinic, Soroka Medical Center and 
Faculty of Health Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva. 
sikuler@bgu.ac.il

Ascites is the most common manifestation of decompensated liver cirrhosis. The 
life expectancy of cirrhotic patients developing uncomplicated ascites is 50% 
for 3 years. Refractory ascites, electrolyte imbalance, hepato-renal syndrome 
and spontaneous bacterial peritonitis may develop. Successful treatment can 
improve symptoms and outcomes. This article summarizes the Israeli Association 
for the Study of the Liver guidelines for diagnosis and management of cirrhotic 
ascites and its complications.

PMID: 23330265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Bratisl Lek Listy. 2013;114(2):45-9. doi: 10.4149/bll_2013_011.

Women live longer than men.

Ginter E(1), Simko V.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Preventive and Clinical Medicine, Bratislava, Slovakia. 
ginter.emil@mail.t-com.sk

In most parts of the world women live longer. This gender gap in life expectancy 
(LE) is remarkable and it has challenged scientific research for decades. Closer 
analysis of geographic differences related to such gender gap and attempts to 
recognize its cause may provide a powerful tool to understand the basic process 
of aging and to device preventive health care strategies. In countries with 
established socio-economic order women live on the average 4-7 years longer. The 
main contributing factor is higher cardiovascular disease (CVD) morbidity and 
mortality in men. In the European established democracies male mortality is on 
decline and the gender gap in LE is becoming smaller. Current trends in Iceland 
and in other Scandinavian countries indicate that by the year 2050 men will live 
as long as women. Unfortunately, the gender gap continues to grow in the 
countries of the former Soviet influence where it represents up to 13 years. 
Dependence of the gender gap on the socio-economic order of a particular society 
points out the importance of environmental factors. Other mechanisms influencing 
the gender difference are the different hormonal and genetic function (Fig. 6, 
Ref. 23).

DOI: 10.4149/bll_2013_011
PMID: 23331196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. BJU Int. 2013 May;111(6):891-6. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11531.x. Epub
2013  Jan 18.

Significant variability in 10-year cumulative radiation exposure incurred on 
different surveillance regimens after surgery for pT1 renal cancers: yet another 
reason to standardize protocols?

Lin YK(1), Gettle L, Raman JD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology (Surgery), Penn State Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, 
Hershey, PA 17033-0850, USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2013 Nov;190(5):1711.

WHAT'S KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT? AND WHAT DOES THE STUDY ADD?: The topic of 
radiation safety has been hotly debated not only in the mainstream media, but 
