PMID: 23394686 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Glob Health Action. 2013 Feb 5;6:20100. doi: 10.3402/gha.v6i0.20100.

An analysis of the health status of the United Arab Emirates: the 'Big 4' public 
health issues.

Loney T(1), Aw TC, Handysides DG, Ali R, Blair I, Grivna M, Shah SM, 
Sheek-Hussein M, El-Sadig M, Sharif AA, El-Obaid Y.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, College of Medicine and Health Sciences, United 
Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates. tom.loney@uaeu.ac.ae

BACKGROUND: The United Arab Emirates (UAE) is a rapidly developing country 
composed of a multinational population with varying educational backgrounds, 
religious beliefs, and cultural practices, which pose a challenge for 
population-based public health strategies. A number of public health issues 
significantly contribute to morbidity and mortality in the UAE. This article 
summarises the findings of a panel of medical and public health specialists from 
UAE University and various government health agencies commissioned to report on 
the health status of the UAE population.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was conducted to retrieve peer-reviewed 
articles on health in the UAE, and unpublished data were provided by government 
health authorities and local hospitals.
RESULTS: The panel reviewed and evaluated all available evidence to list and 
rank (1=highest priority) the top four main public health issues: 1) 
Cardiovascular disease accounted for more than 25% of deaths in 2010; 2) Injury 
caused 17% of mortality for all age groups in 2010; 3) Cancer accounted for 10% 
of all deaths in 2010, and the incidence of all cancers is projected to double 
by 2020; and 4) Respiratory disorders were the second most common non-fatal 
condition in 2010.
CONCLUSION: The major public health challenges posed by certain personal (e.g. 
ethnicity, family history), lifestyle, occupational, and environmental factors 
associated with the development of chronic disease are not isolated to the UAE; 
rather, they form part of a global health problem, which requires international 
collaboration and action. Future research should focus on population-based 
public health interventions that target the factors associated with the 
development of various chronic diseases.

DOI: 10.3402/gha.v6i0.20100
PMCID: PMC3566378
PMID: 23394856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. J Am Acad Dermatol. 2013 Mar;68(3):517-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jaad.2012.10.054.

Cost analysis suggests overemphasis on biopsy rate for melanoma diagnosis.

Goldsmith SM.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaad.2012.10.054
PMID: 23394922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Eur J Oncol Nurs. 2013 Oct;17(5):610-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ejon.2013.01.002.
Epub  2013 Feb 7.

Patients' experiences of living beyond colorectal cancer: a qualitative study.

Appleton L(1), Goodlad S, Irvine F, Poole H, Wall C.

Author information:
(1)The Clatterbridge Cancer Centre NHS Foundation Trust, Clatterbridge Road, 
Bebington, Wirral CH63 4JY, UK. Electronic address: 
Lynda.appleton@clatterbridgecc.nhs.uk.

PURPOSE OF THE RESEARCH: This paper is a report of a study of the experiences of 
individuals with colorectal cancer in the period following their cancer 
treatment and the physical, psychological and social aspects associated with 
adjusting to everyday life.
METHODS AND SAMPLE: Qualitative interviews using a phenomenological approach 
were conducted with a purposive sample of 13 individuals who had completed 
active curative treatment for colorectal cancer.
RESULTS: Study findings suggest that colorectal cancer survivors employ a broad 
range of techniques and approaches to manage adjustment to everyday life such as 
goal-setting, managing informal networks and adopting strategies for physical 
and emotional recovery. Personal interests were used to create a sense of 
meaning and through the cultivation of altruistic and utilitarian outlooks on 
life, positive emotional gains were obtained.
CONCLUSIONS: Colorectal cancer survivors employ personal strategies for managing 
life in the survivorship period following cancer treatment. The study findings 
demonstrate additional areas for exploration such as the effect of altruism on 
adjustment and the relationship to other groups of cancer survivors.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejon.2013.01.002
PMID: 23394950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Phys Life Rev. 2013 Mar;10(1):37-8; discussion 39-40. doi: 
10.1016/j.plrev.2013.01.013. Epub 2013 Feb 1.

Possible alternative and extension to the use of dynamics for structure 
matching: comment on "Comparing proteins by their internal dynamics: exploring 
structure-function relationships beyond static structural alignments" by C. 
Micheletti.

Jernigan RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Laurence H. Baker Center for Bioinformatics and Biological Statistics, Iowa 
State University, Ames, IA 50011-3020, USA. jernigan@iastate.edu

Comment on
    Phys Life Rev. 2013 Mar;10(1):1-26.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plrev.2013.01.013
PMID: 23394959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Trends Biotechnol. 2013 May;31(5):269-72. doi:
10.1016/j.tibtech.2013.01.011.  Epub 2013 Feb 8.

Synthetic biology, the bioeconomy, and a societal quandary.

Philp JC(1), Ritchie RJ, Allan JE.

Author information:
(1)Science and Technology Policy Division, Directorate for Science, Technology, 
and Industry, OECD, 2 Rue André-Pascal, Paris 75775, France. 
james.philp@oecd.org

Opinions on what synthetic biology actually is range from a natural extension of 
genetic engineering to a new manufacturing paradigm. It offers, for the first 
time in the life sciences, rational design and engineering standardisation. It 
could address problems across a broad spectrum of human concerns, including 
energy and food security, and health of growing and aging populations. It also 
offers great scope for public resistance to its introduction to daily life.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tibtech.2013.01.011
PMID: 23394960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Encephale. 2012 Dec;38 Suppl 4:S167-72. doi: 10.1016/S0013-7006(12)70095-7.

[Bipolar disorders and somatic comorbidities: a focus on metabollic syndrome, 
diabetes and cardiovascular disease].

[Article in French]

Chauvet-Gélinier JC(1), Gaubil I, Kaladjian A, Bonin B.

Author information:
(1)Service de Psychiatrie/Addictologie, Hôpital Général Centre Hospitalier 
Universitaire, 3 rue du Faubourg, Raines, Dijon cedex. 
jean-christophe.chauvet-gelinier@chu-dijon.fr

Bipolar Disorders (BD) are currently regarded as a multidimensional disease 
involving both psychological and physical determinants. If mood dimension and 
thymic instability have usually been considered as the « core » aspect of 
bipolar disorders, it's crucial to note that somatic problems frequently occur 
in BD, deeply worsening the prognosis of this affection. Indeed, comorbid 
somatic illnesses of bipolar disorder are mainly represented by cardiovascular 
and metabolic disorders, which are shortening life expectancy by 25 to 30 years 
as compared to the general population. In this review, the authors examine 
epidemiological data about this comorbidity, then they attempt to provide 
etiologic and physiopathologic hypotheses about the links between bipolar 
disorders and metabolic diseases. Despite the absence of strong scientific 
explanation for this link, its existence highlights the need for more integrated 
care and interdisciplinary collaboration in order to improve patients'outcome.

Copyright © 2012 L’Encéphale. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0013-7006(12)70095-7
PMID: 23395232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Lancet Infect Dis. 2013 Apr;13(4):342-8. doi: 10.1016/S1473-3099(13)70002-1.
 Epub 2013 Feb 8.

Global economic burden of Chagas disease: a computational simulation model.

Lee BY(1), Bacon KM, Bottazzi ME, Hotez PJ.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Computational and Operations Research, School of Medicine, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. byl1@pitt.edu

Comment in
    Lancet Infect Dis. 2013 Apr;13(4):283-4.

BACKGROUND: As Chagas disease continues to expand beyond tropical and 
subtropical zones, a growing need exists to better understand its resulting 
economic burden to help guide stakeholders such as policy makers, funders, and 
product developers. We developed a Markov simulation model to estimate the 
global and regional health and economic burden of Chagas disease from the 
societal perspective.
METHODS: Our Markov model structure had a 1 year cycle length and consisted of 
five states: acute disease, indeterminate disease, cardiomyopathy with or 
without congestive heart failure, megaviscera, and death. Major model parameter 
inputs, including the annual probabilities of transitioning from one state to 
another, and present case estimates for Chagas disease came from various 
sources, including WHO and other epidemiological and disease-surveillance-based 
reports. We calculated annual and lifetime health-care costs and 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) for individuals, countries, and regions. 
We used a discount rate of 3% to adjust all costs and DALYs to present-day 
values.
FINDINGS: On average, an infected individual incurs US$474 in health-care costs 
and 0·51 DALYs annually. Over his or her lifetime, an infected individual 
accrues an average net present value of $3456 and 3·57 DALYs. Globally, the 
annual burden is $627·46 million in health-care costs and 806,170 DALYs. The 
global net present value of currently infected individuals is $24·73 billion in 
health-care costs and 29,385,250 DALYs. Conversion of this burden into costs 
results in annual per-person costs of $4660 and lifetime per-person costs of 
$27,684. Global costs are $7·19 billion per year and $188·80 billion per 
lifetime. More than 10% of these costs emanate from the USA and Canada, where 
Chagas disease has not been traditionally endemic. A substantial proportion of 
the burden emerges from lost productivity from cardiovascular disease-induced 
early mortality.
INTERPRETATION: The economic burden of Chagas disease is similar to or exceeds 
those of other prominent diseases globally (eg, rotavirus $2·0 billion, cervical 
cancer $4·7 billion) even in the USA (Lyme disease $2·5 billion), where Chagas 
disease has not been traditionally endemic, suggesting an economic argument for 
more attention and efforts towards control of Chagas disease.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, the National Institute of General 
Medical Sciences Models of Infectious Disease Agent Study.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1473-3099(13)70002-1
PMCID: PMC3763184
PMID: 23395248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest We declare that we have no 
conflicts of interest.


269. Ageing Res Rev. 2013 Mar;12(2):579-94. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.01.007. Epub
2013  Feb 6.

Omega-3 fatty acids and brain resistance to ageing and stress: body of evidence 
and possible mechanisms.

Denis I(1), Potier B, Vancassel S, Heberden C, Lavialle M.

Author information:
(1)INRA UR909 Unité de Nutrition et Régulations Lipidiques des Fonctions 
Cérébrales, 78352 Jouy-en-Josas cedex, France. isabelle.denis@jouy.inra.fr

The increasing life expectancy in the populations of rich countries raises the 
pressing question of how the elderly can maintain their cognitive function. 
Cognitive decline is characterised by the loss of short-term memory due to a 
progressive impairment of the underlying brain cell processes. Age-related brain 
damage has many causes, some of which may be influenced by diet. An optimal diet 
may therefore be a practical way of delaying the onset of age-related cognitive 
decline. Nutritional investigations indicate that the ω-3 poyunsaturated fatty 
acid (PUFA) content of western diets is too low to provide the brain with an 
optimal supply of docosahexaenoic acid (DHA), the main ω-3 PUFA in cell 
membranes. Insufficient brain DHA has been associated with memory impairment, 
emotional disturbances and altered brain processes in rodents. Human studies 
suggest that an adequate dietary intake of ω-3 PUFA can slow the age-related 
cognitive decline and may also protect against the risk of senile dementia. 
However, despite the many studies in this domain, the beneficial impact of ω-3 
PUFA on brain function has only recently been linked to specific mechanisms. 
This review examines the hypothesis that an optimal brain DHA status, conferred 
by an adequate ω-3 PUFA intake, limits age-related brain damage by optimizing 
endogenous brain repair mechanisms. Our analysis of the abundant literature 
indicates that an adequate amount of DHA in the brain may limit the impact of 
stress, an important age-aggravating factor, and influences the neuronal and 
astroglial functions that govern and protect synaptic transmission. This 
transmission, particularly glutamatergic neurotransmission in the hippocampus, 
underlies memory formation. The brain DHA status also influences neurogenesis, 
nested in the hippocampus, which helps maintain cognitive function throughout 
life. Although there are still gaps in our knowledge of the way ω-3 PUFA act, 
the mechanistic studies reviewed here indicate that ω-3 PUFA may be a promising 
tool for preventing age-related brain deterioration.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.01.007
PMID: 23395782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2013 May;16(5):673-80. doi: 
10.1093/icvts/ivt020. Epub 2013 Feb 8.

Surgical treatment of non-small-cell lung cancer in octogenarians.

Guerra M(1), Neves P, Miranda J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Centro Hospitalar de Vila Nova de 
Gaia/Espinho, Vila Nove de Gaia, Portugal. migueldavidguerra@yahoo.com

Comment in
    Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2013 May;16(5):680.

Reluctance to recommend lung cancer surgery for octogenarians is partly based on 
the expectation that the rate of complications and mortality is higher in this 
group of patients, and on the impression that the life expectancy of an 
octogenarian with lung cancer is limited by death from natural causes. Moreover, 
the belief that radiation therapy and observation yield similar results to 
surgery in early-stage disease have influenced low resection rates in this 
population. Nevertheless, advances in surgical techniques, anaesthesia and 
postoperative care have made surgical lung resection a safer procedure than it 
was in the past. Judging from the more recent findings, surgery should not be 
withheld because of postoperative mortality, but suboptimal or palliative 
treatment may be necessary in patients with poor physical or mental function. To 
enable informed decision-making, both patients and clinicians need information 
on the risks of surgical treatment. In this review, available information from 
the literature was collected in an effort to understand the real benefit of 
surgical treatment in octogenarians with non-small-cell lung cancer, and to 
determine what should be done or avoided during the selection course.

DOI: 10.1093/icvts/ivt020
PMCID: PMC3630430
PMID: 23396622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Ann Surg Oncol. 2013 Dec;20 Suppl 3:S500-8. doi: 10.1245/s10434-013-2882-0.
Epub  2013 Feb 10.

The cost-effectiveness of neoadjuvant chemoradiation is superior to a 
surgery-first approach in the treatment of pancreatic head adenocarcinoma.

Abbott DE(1), Tzeng CW, Merkow RP, Cantor SB, Chang GJ, Katz MH, Bentrem DJ, 
Bilimoria KY, Crane CH, Varadhachary GR, Abbruzzese JL, Wolff RA, Lee JE, Evans 
DB, Fleming JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Cincinnati School of Medicine, 
Cincinnati, OH, USA.

BACKGROUND: In treating pancreatic cancer, there is no clearly defined optimal 
sequence of chemotherapy, radiation therapy and surgery. Therefore, 
cost-effectiveness should be considered. The objective of this study was to 
compare cost and outcomes between a surgery-first approach versus neoadjuvant 
chemoradiation followed by surgery for resectable pancreatic head cancer.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was constructed to compare the 2 approaches. 
Data from the National Cancer Database, National Surgical Quality Improvement 
Program, and literature populated the surgery-first arm. Data from our 
prospectively maintained institutional pancreatic cancer database populated the 
neoadjuvant arm. Costs were estimated by Medicare payment (2011 U.S. dollars). 
Survival was reported in quality-adjusted life-months (QALMs).
RESULTS: The neoadjuvant chemoradiation arm consisted of 164 patients who 
completed preoperative therapy. Of these, 36 (22 %) did not proceed to surgery; 
12 (7 %) underwent laparotomy but had unresectable disease; and 116 (71 %) 
underwent definitive resection. The surgery-first approach cost $46,830 and 
yielded survival of 8.7 QALMs; the neoadjuvant chemoradiation approach cost 
$36,583 and yielded survival of 18.8 QALMs. In the neoadjuvant arm, costs and 
survival times for patients not undergoing surgery, those with unresectable 
disease at laparotomy, and those completing surgery were $12,401 and 7.7 QALMs, 
$20,380 and 7.1 QALMs, and $45,673 and 23.4 QALMs, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Neoadjuvant chemoradiation for pancreatic cancer identifies 
patients with early metastases or poor performance status, who can be spared an 
ineffective or prohibitively morbid operation, and is associated with improved 
survival at significantly lower cost than a surgery-first approach. Neoadjuvant 
chemoradiation followed by surgery is a strategy that provides more 
cost-effective care than a surgery-first approach.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-013-2882-0
PMID: 23397153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2013 Nov;21(11):2629-37. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-013-2427-x. Epub 2013 Feb 10.

Cost-effectiveness and economic impact of the KineSpring ® Knee Implant System 
in the treatment for knee osteoarthritis.

Li CS(1), Seeger T, Auhuber TC, Bhandari M.

Author information:
(1)Global Research Solutions Inc, Burlington, ON, L7N 3H8, Canada, 
silvia.li@grsolutions.ca.

PURPOSE: To investigate the cost-effectiveness and economic impact of the 
KineSpring System in the treatment for knee osteoarthritis in Germany.
METHODS: Functional outcome scores of the general German population and knee 
osteoarthritis (OA) patients under surgical treatments (HTO, UKA and TKA), 
conservative treatments and treatment with the KineSpring System were used to 
derive the utility scores for each group. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of 
each group were estimated using the utility scores. Finally, cost-utility 
analysis was performed using cost and QALYs data. The economic impact of knee OA 
in Germany was assessed in terms of annual total direct cost and indirect cost, 
total diseased population and potential QALYs saved with the KineSpring System.
RESULTS: Assuming the durability of 10 years, the cost-utility ratio of the 
KineSpring System, surgical treatments and conservative treatments compared to 
no treatment in 2012 was euro>3,402/QALY, euro 4,899/QALY and euro 9,996/QALY, 
respectively. With even a lesser durability of 5 years, the cost-utility ratio 
of the KineSpring System maintained superiority over surgical treatments and 
conservative treatments (euro 7,327/QALY, euro 9,706/QALY and euro 10,467/QALY, 
respectively). The KineSpring System is a highly cost-effective alternative for 
knee osteoarthritis compared with the current accepted cost-effective threshold 
(willingness to pay) of $50,000 US/QALY gained. Our models suggest KineSpring 
System, if adapted widely could save up to 2.0 ± 0.07 million QALY assuming it 
has a 5-year durability and save up to 3.9 ± 0.1 million QALY assuming it has a 
10-year durability.
CONCLUSION: An economic advantage for using the KineSpring System over other 
surgical and conservative treatments in knee OA patients in Germany is suggested 
by our model. According to currently accepted cost-effectiveness guidelines, the 
KineSpring Knee Implant System for knee OA is a cost-effective strategy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-013-2427-x
PMID: 23397420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 Mar;15(2):157-74. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0462-7.
Epub  2013 Feb 10.

Economic evaluations of homeopathy: a review.

Viksveen P(1), Dymitr Z, Simoens S.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK, p.viksveen@sheffield.ac.uk.

CONTEXT: Economic evaluations of commonly used complementary and alternative 
medicine (CAM) therapies such as homeopathy are needed to contribute to the 
evidence base on which policy makers, clinicians, health-care payers, as well as 
patients base their health-care decisions in an era of constrained resources.
OBJECTIVES: To review and assess existing economic evaluations of homeopathy.
METHODS: Literature search was made to retrieve relevant publications using 
AMED, the Cochrane Library, CRD (DARE, NHS EED, HTA), EMBASE, MEDLINE, and the 
journal Homeopathy (former British Homoeopathic Journal). A hand search of 
relevant publications was carried out. Homeopathy researchers were contacted. 
Identified publications were independently assessed by two authors.
RESULTS: Fifteen relevant articles reported on 14 economic evaluations of 
homeopathy. Thirteen studies reported numbers of patients: a total of 3,500 
patients received homeopathic treatment (median 97, interquartile range 48-268), 
and 10 studies reported on control group participants (median 57, IQR 40-362). 
Eight out of 14 studies found improvements in patients' health together with 
cost savings. Four studies found that improvements in homeopathy patients were 
at least as good as in control group patients, at comparable costs. Two studies 
found improvements similar to conventional treatment, but at higher costs. 
Studies were highly heterogeneous and had several methodological weaknesses.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the identified evidence of the costs and potential 
benefits of homeopathy seemed promising, studies were highly heterogeneous and 
had several methodological weaknesses. It is therefore not possible to draw firm 
conclusions based on existing economic evaluations of homeopathy. 
Recommendations for future research are presented.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0462-7
PMID: 23397477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Soc Secur Bull. 2012;72(4):37-46.

Mind the gap: the distributional effects of raising the early eligibility age 
and full retirement age.

Olsen A(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of Retirement Policy, Office of Retirement and Disability Policy, 
Social Security Administration, USA.

Policymakers have proposed increases to the early eligibility age (EEA) and/or 
full retirement age (FRA) to address increasing life expectancy and Social 
Security solvency issues. This analysis uses the Social Security 
Administration's Modeling Income in the Near Term, version 6 (MINT6) model to 
compare three retirement-age increases suggested by the Social Security Advisory 
Board: increase the gap between the EEA and FRA by raising only the FRA, 
increase both the EEA and FRA to maintain a 4-year gap between them, and 
increase both the EEA and FRA to maintain a 5-year gap between them. Although 
all three options would improve system solvency by similar proportions, their 
effect on individual beneficiaries in the future would vary. Benefit reductions 
are greater under the proposals with more months between the EEA and FRA, while 
the option that maintains a 4-year gap results in benefit increases for some 
beneficiaries compared with current law.

PMID: 23397744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Coll Antropol. 2012 Nov;36 Suppl 2:179-84.

Recurrent sinonasal melanoma--report of five surgical cases and short literature 
review.

Dzepina D(1), Kalogjera L, Baudoin T.

Author information:
(1)University of Zagreb, Sestre milosrdnice University Hospital Center, 
Department of ENT - Head and Neck Surgery, Zagreb, Croatia. 
dzepina.davor@gmail.com

The aim of this study is to present five surgical cases of recurrent sinonasal 
melanoma. We report the clinical course of this highly malignant disease and 
give a brief overview of the relevant literature. For the purpose of our 
presentation, inclusion criteria for all patients were initally negative 
surgical margins, surgery with curative intent without implementation of 
radiotherapy, and absence of distant metastatic spread at presentation (MO). 
They were diagnosed and treated at the same ENT/Head and Neck Surgery department 
and had clear surgical margins following first resection. The majority of five 
cases had local recurrences (average two) which were all amenable to at least 
one salvage operation. In conclusion, despite extensive disease at presentation, 
we recommend repeated attempts at local surgical salvage. However, this decision 
must be carefully considered, respecting postoperative quality of life, the 
estimated life expectancy as well as general socioeconomic issues in each 
particular case.

PMID: 23397782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Clin Microbiol Infect. 2013 Jun;19(6):510-2. doi: 10.1111/1469-0691.12160.
Epub  2013 Feb 11.

Long-term consequences of severe infections.

Leibovici L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine E, Beilinson Hospital, Rabin Medical Centre, 
Petah-Tiqva, Isreal. leibovic@post.tau.ac.il

There are convincing data to show that the consequences of a severe infection 
extend well beyond the first month following it. During the first year after 
severe sepsis or infection, the survival of sepsis patients is guarded compared 
with matched control groups. Their quality of life is impaired, and they suffer 
from rapid degradation in cognition and functional capacity. We could postulate 
three explanations for the long-term bad outcomes of severe infections and 
sepsis (or a combination of the three): (i) sepsis usually happens in the 
elderly and sick, and it causes deterioration in life expectancy and functional 
status as an acute, non-specific event; (ii) an interaction between specific 
mechanisms of sepsis and underlying disorders; or (iii) long-term complications 
directly related to infection. If the second or third explanations are true, 
then management of the original infection/sepsis might have an influence on 
long-term outcomes. Elderly survivors of severe infections should be carefully 
assessed for whether they need intermediate care for recuperation and 
re-conditioning when leaving hospital. We need prospective, observational 
studies to define which are the factors that most influence long-term outcomes, 
and especially management of the acute infection. The investigation of long-term 
outcomes in trials of treatment modalities for sepsis or severe infections 
should be encouraged. The true answer for whether one treatment is better than 
another in severe infections or sepsis lies in the people trajectory in the year 
following the infection, and not only on 4-6 weeks outcome.

© 2013 The Author Clinical Microbiology and Infection © 2013 European Society of 
Clinical Microbiology and Infectious Diseases.

DOI: 10.1111/1469-0691.12160
PMID: 23397980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Infect Dis Clin North Am. 2013 Mar;27(1):177-88. doi:
10.1016/j.idc.2012.11.006.  Epub 2012 Dec 14.

How important is methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus as a cause of 
community-acquired pneumonia and what is best antimicrobial therapy?

Wunderink RG(1).

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary and Critical Care Division, Northwestern University Feinberg School 
of Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA. r-wunderink@northwestern.edu

The emergence of methicillin-resistant strains of Staphylococcus aureus has 
raised issues regarding the importance of methicillin-resistant S aureus (MRSA) 
in community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) and its optimal treatment. 
Community-acquired MRSA (CA-MRSA) is an important cause of CAP because of the 
high mortality if not suspected early, and its occurrence in young patients with 
long life expectancy. Certain clinical features can increase the probability of 
CA-MRSA as a cause of CAP. The consistent trend toward better outcomes for 
documented MRSA pneumonia suggests that linezolid be considered the drug of 
choice for documented MRSA CAP, especially for CA-MRSA.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.idc.2012.11.006
PMID: 23398873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Comput Methods Programs Biomed. 2013 Jun;110(3):503-10. doi: 
10.1016/j.cmpb.2013.01.010. Epub 2013 Feb 8.

The Survival Kit: software to analyze survival data including possibly 
correlated random effects.

Mészáros G(1), Sölkner J, Ducrocq V.

Author information:
(1)Division of Livestock Sciences, University of Natural Resources and Life 
Sciences, Vienna, Gregor-Mendel-Str. 33, A-1180 Vienna, Austria. 
gabor.meszaros@boku.ac.at

The Survival Kit is a Fortran 90 Software intended for survival analysis using 
proportional hazards models and their extension to frailty models with a single 
response time. The hazard function is described as the product of a baseline 
hazard function and a positive (exponential) function of possibly time-dependent 
fixed and random covariates. Stratified Cox, grouped data and Weibull models can 
be used. Random effects can be either log-gamma or normally distributed and can 
account for a pedigree structure. Variance parameters are estimated in a 
Bayesian context. It is possible to account for the correlated nature of two 
random effects either by specifying a known correlation coefficient or 
estimating it from the data. An R interface of the Survival Kit provides a user 
friendly way to run the software.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmpb.2013.01.010
PMCID: PMC3693034
PMID: 23399103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Carbohydr Polym. 2013 Feb 15;92(2):1972-7. doi:
10.1016/j.carbpol.2012.11.078.  Epub 2012 Dec 3.

Functional properties of chitosan-xylose Maillard reaction products and their 
application to semi-dried noodle.

Zhu KX(1), Li J, Li M, Guo XN, Peng W, Zhou HM.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Food Science and Technology, School of Food Science 
and Technology, Jiangnan University, 1800 Lihu Avenue, Wuxi 214122, Jiangsu 
Province, PR China. kxzhu@jiangnan.edu.cn

The objective of this research was to evaluate the antimicrobial, antioxidant 
and darkening inhibitory activities of Maillard reaction products (MRPs) 
prepared from chitosan and xylose, and their effects on the preservation and 
quality of semi-dried noodles. The development of brown color and UV absorbance 
changes indicated the proceeding of Maillard reaction. The antimicrobial 
activity, reducing power, DPPH radical scavenging activity, copper-chelating 
activity and PPO inhibitory effects of chitosan-xylose conjugates increased with 
the reaction. Addition of MRPs could improve the textural and cooking quality of 
semi-dried noodles. Incorporation of 0.35% MRPs (6 h) into semi-dried noodle 
resulted in an extension of shelf life for more than 7 days than the control 
noodles (at room temperature). The discoloration caused by the addition of MRPs 
was limited, and MRPs could inhibit darkening of the noodle effectively. Results 
suggested that the MRPs could be used as a novel promising preservative for 
semi-dried noodles.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2012.11.078
PMID: 23399246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Pediatrics. 2013 Mar;131(3):548-58. doi: 10.1542/peds.2012-3769. Epub 2013
Feb  11.

Annual summary of vital statistics: 2010-2011.

Hamilton BE(1), Hoyert DL, Martin JA, Strobino DM, Guyer B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vital Statistics, National Center for Health Statistics, Centers 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA. boh5@cdc.gov

The number of births in the United States declined by 1% between 2010 and 2011, 
to a total of 3 953 593. The general fertility rate also declined by 1% to 63.2 
births per 1000 women, the lowest rate ever reported. The total fertility rate 
was down by 2% in 2011 (to 1894.5 births per 1000 women). The teenage birth rate 
fell to another historic low in 2011, 31.3 births per 1000 women. Birth rates 
also declined for women aged 20 to 29 years, but the rates increased for women 
aged 35 to 39 and 40 to 44 years. The percentage of all births to unmarried 
women declined slightly to 40.7% in 2011, from 40.8% in 2010. In 2011, the 
cesarean delivery rate was unchanged from 2010 at 32.8%. The preterm birth rate 
declined for the fifth straight year in 2011 to 11.72%; the low birth weight 
rate declined slightly to 8.10%. The infant mortality rate was 6.05 infant 
deaths per 1000 live births in 2011, which was not significantly lower than the 
rate of 6.15 deaths in 2010. Life expectancy at birth was 78.7 years in 2011, 
which was unchanged from 2010. Crude death rates for children aged 1 to 19 years 
did not change significantly between 2010 and 2011. Unintentional injuries and 
homicide were the first and second leading causes of death, respectively, in 
this age group. These 2 causes of death jointly accounted for 47.0% of all 
deaths of children and adolescents in 2011.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2012-3769
PMCID: PMC5754931
PMID: 23400611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Cancer. 2013 May 15;119(10):1808-15. doi: 10.1002/cncr.27980. Epub 2013 Feb
7.

Death from high-risk prostate cancer versus cardiovascular mortality with 
hormonal therapy: a decision analysis.

Lester-Coll NH(1), Goldhaber SZ, Sher DJ, D'Amico AV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut, USA. nataniel.lester-coll@yale.edu

Erratum in
    Cancer. 2013 Jun 15;119(12):2358. Dosage error in article text.

BACKGROUND: Randomized trials have demonstrated improved survival when hormonal 
therapy (HT) is added to radiation therapy (RT) for high-risk prostate cancer. 
However, it is still unknown whether men who have a history of myocardial 
infarction (MI) or MI risk factors achieve a superior outcome from HT.
METHODS: A Markov decision analysis model was used to compare quality-adjusted 
life expectancy (QALE) in men aged 50, 60, and 70 years who received RT and no 
HT, 6 months of HT (short-term), or 3 years of HT (long-term) for high-risk 
prostate cancer stratified by cardiac risk group.
RESULTS: In men with a history of MI, there was a decrease of 0.1 to 0.2 
quality-adjusted life years and 0.5 to 0.6 quality-adjusted life years across 
all ages with short-term HT and long-term HT, respectively, compared with no HT. 
In men without MI, receipt of short-term or long-term HT was associated with a 
QALE benefit versus no HT in all cohorts. Among men without MI, the optimal 
duration of HT was a function of age and the number of MI risk factors. 
Long-term HT improved QALE (range, 1.4-5.4 years) for men aged 50 or 60 years 
except those with MI; whereas, for men aged 70 years with 4 cardiac risk 
factors, short-term and long-term HT yielded identical QALE.
CONCLUSIONS: Men who received RT for high-risk prostate cancer and had a history 
of MI experienced net harm when they received HT. Men without MI gained a QALE 
benefit from HT, even if they had up to 4 cardiac risk factors. The optimal 
duration of HT is a function of patient age and the number of cardiac risk 
factors.

Copyright © 2013 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.27980
PMID: 23400678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2013 Feb;13(1):9-18. doi: 
10.1586/erp.12.89.

Cost-effectiveness of ticagrelor in acute coronary syndromes.

Henriksson M(1), Janzon M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, AstraZeneca Nordic, Astraallén, B674, 151 85 
Södertälje, Sweden. martin.x.henriksson@astrazeneca.com

Ticagrelor is a reversibly binding oral P2Y(12) inhibitor, which belongs to a 
novel chemical class of antiplatelet agents named 
cyclopentyl-triazolo-pyrimidines. Ticagrelor administered with acetylsalicylic 
acid has been shown to reduce the rate of the composite end point of death from 
vascular causes, myocardial infarction or stroke without an increase in the rate 
of overall major bleeding compared with clopidogrel plus acetylsalicylic acid in 
patients with acute coronary syndromes. In addition to these clinical findings, 
it has been shown that the cost per quality-adjusted life year with ticagrelor 
is below the generally acceptable thresholds for cost-effectiveness compared 
with clopidogrel. Healthcare decision-makers need to consider the costs and 
cost-effectiveness when prioritizing treatments among scarce healthcare 
resources. This is of particular importance in cases similar to ticagrelor, 
where the novel treatment is expected to improve effectiveness at a higher 
acquisition cost. In this article, the authors review and discuss the 
health-economic evidence of ticagrelor.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.12.89
PMID: 23402441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2013 Feb;13(1):19-28. doi: 
10.1586/erp.12.76.

Cost-effectiveness of denosumab in the treatment of postmenopausal osteoporotic 
women.

Hiligsmann M(1), Boonen A, Dirksen CD, Ben Sedrine W, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, School for Public Health & Primary 
Care, Maastricht University, P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
m.hiligsmann@maastrichtuniversity.nl

Denosumab is a novel biological agent for the treatment of osteoporosis in 
postmenopausal women with increased risk of fractures. With limited healthcare 
resources, economic evaluations are increasingly being used by decision-makers 
to optimize healthcare resource allocation. The cost-effectiveness of denosumab 
has been evaluated in various studies, and a systematic literature study was 
conducted up to April 2012 to identify all published research articles and 
research abstracts presented at various congresses. This article provides a 
systematic review of four articles and eight abstracts reporting on the 
cost-effectiveness of denosumab in the treatment of osteoporosis. In most 
economic evaluations, denosumab has been considered as a cost-effective 
treatment compared with first-line and second-line options (including generic 
alendronate) in the treatment of women with high risk of fractures.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.12.76
PMID: 23402442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2013 Feb;13(1):73-81. doi: 
10.1586/erp.12.87.

Cost-effectiveness of psychotherapy for personality disorders: treatment 
recommendations and implementation.

Soeteman DI(1), Kim JJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA. dsoetema@hsph.harvard.edu

This article reviews the current evidence on the cost-effectiveness of 
psychotherapy for personality disorders (PDs). Although the evidence is still 
scarce, several well-designed cost-effectiveness studies provide insight into 
the question - how cost effective is it to reimburse therapies for PDs? This 
article further argues that the implementation costs and effects should be an 
integral part of cost-effectiveness analyses to enhance the dissemination of 
treatment recommendations. Moreover, cost-effectiveness analyses are important 
in working towards a more patient-centered approach in psychotherapy research 
that could potentially help accelerate the implementation and adoption of 
cost-effective care for PDs.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.12.87
PMID: 23402448 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Hepatol. 2013 Jun;58(6):1209-17. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.01.040. Epub
2013  Feb 8.

Improving outcomes of biliary atresia: French national series 1986-2009.

Chardot C(1), Buet C, Serinet MO, Golmard JL, Lachaux A, Roquelaure B, Gottrand 
F, Broué P, Dabadie A, Gauthier F, Jacquemin E.

Author information:
(1)Observatoire français de l'atrésie des voies biliaires, Hôpital Necker - 
Enfants malades, Université Paris Descartes, Paris, France. 
christophe.chardot@nck.aphp.fr

BACKGROUND & AIMS: This study analyses the prognosis of biliary atresia (BA) in 
France since liver transplantation (LT) became widely available.
METHODS: The charts of all BA patients living in France and born between 1986 
and 2009 were reviewed. Patients were divided into 3 cohorts according to their 
years of birth: 1986-1996, 1997-2002, and 2003-2009.
RESULTS: 1107 BA children were identified, 990 born in metropolitan France 
(incidence 1/18,400 live births). Kasai operation was performed in 1044 (94%), 
leading to complete clearance of jaundice (total serum bilirubin ≤ 20 μmol/L) in 
38% of patients. Survival with native liver (SNL) after Kasai operation was 40%, 
36%, and 30% at 5, 10, and 20 years, stable in the 3 cohorts. Median age at 
Kasai operation was 59 days, unchanged over time. Twenty-year SNL was 39%, 32%, 
28%, and 19% after Kasai operation performed in the first, second, third months 
of life or thereafter (p=0.0002). 588 children underwent 692 LTs. Mortality 
without transplantation decreased over time: 16%, 7%, and 4% in the 3 cohorts 
(p<0.0001). Survival after transplantation was 83%, 82%, and 77% at 5, 10, and 
20 years in the whole series. Five-year post-transplant survival was 75%, 90%, 
and 89% in the 3 cohorts (p<0.0001). In the whole series, overall BA patient 
survival was 81%, 80%, and 77% at 5, 10, and 20 years. Five-year BA patient 
overall survival increased over time: 72%, 88%, and 89% in the 3 cohorts 
(p<0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: BA patients currently have an 89% live expectancy, and a 30% chance 
to reach adulthood without transplantation. Early Kasai operation, without age 
threshold, reduces the need for liver transplantation until adulthood.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.01.040
PMID: 23402746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. An Pediatr (Barc). 2013 Aug;79(2):75-82. doi: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2012.12.002.
Epub  2013 Feb 9.

[Results of hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in hemoglobinopathies: 
thalassemia major and sickle cell disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Hladun R(1), Elorza I, Olivé T, Dapena JL, Llort A, Sánchez de Toledo J, Díaz de 
Heredia C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Oncología y Hematología Pediátrica, Hospital Vall d'Hebron, 
Barcelona, Spain. rhladun@vhebron.net

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of hemoglobinopathies in Spain is increasing as a 
result of immigration. Thalassemia major presents with chronic hemolytic anemia 
that requires regular red blood cell transfusions within the first year of life. 
Patients with sickle cell disease suffer from chronic anemia, vasculopathy and 
progressive damage in almost any organ. There is decreased life expectancy in 
both conditions. Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation represents 
the only potentially curative option.
PATIENTS: Seventeen patients (fourteen thalassemia major, and three sickle cell 
disease) underwent allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantations.
RESULTS: In the thalassemia group, nine donors were HLA-geno-identical siblings, 
two were partially matched related donors (one HLA allele mismatch), and three 
unrelated donors. All three patients with sickle cell disease were transplanted 
from HLA-geno-identical siblings. The source of stem cells was bone marrow in 
sixteen cases. Median patient age at transplant was six years (range: 1-16) in 
the thalassemia group, and twelve years (range: 8-15) in the sickle cell disease 
group. The graft was successful in all patients. Secondary graft rejection was 
observed in two thalassemia patients rendering them dependent on blood 
transfusions. Complete chimerism was observed in thirteen patients and, although 
mixed chimerism occurred in two, with all of them showing normal hemoglobin 
levels after transplantation and not requiring further transfusion support. 
Patients affected by sickle cell disease did not present with new vaso-occlusive 
crises, and stabilization of pulmonary and neurological function was observed. 
Chronic graft-versus-host disease was detected in three patients affected by 
thalassemia, and hypogonadotrophic hypogonadism in five patients.
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that for thalassemia major and sickle cell disease, 
allogenic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation from HLA-geno-identical 
siblings offers a high probability of complication-free survival. Despite good 
results, morbidity and mortality associated with transplantation from unrelated 
donors is a risk that might be considered, in contrast to a non-curative medical 
treatment that offers a long term survival. For thalassemia major groups it 
could be an option, but not for sickle cell disease, which is still in the 
investigational phase.

Copyright © 2012 Asociación Española de Pediatría. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2012.12.002
PMID: 23402775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Waste Manag. 2013 Apr;33(4):942-7. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2012.12.025. Epub
2013  Feb 8.

Resource recovery from urban stock, the example of cadmium and tellurium from 
thin film module recycling.

Simon FG(1), Holm O, Berger W.

Author information:
(1)BAM Federal Institute for Materials Research and Testing, Division 4.3 
Contaminant Transfer and Environmental Technologies, Berlin, Germany. 
franz-georg.simon@bam.de

Raw material supply is essential for all industrial activities. The use of 
secondary raw material gains more importance since ore grade in primary 
production is decreasing. Meanwhile urban stock contains considerable amounts of 
various elements. Photovoltaic (PV) generating systems are part of the urban 
stock and recycling technologies for PV thin film modules with CdTe as 
semiconductor are needed because cadmium could cause hazardous environmental 
impact and tellurium is a scarce element where future supply might be 
constrained. The paper describes a sequence of mechanical processing techniques 
for end-of-life PV thin film modules consisting of sandblasting and flotation. 
Separation of the semiconductor material from the glass surface was possible, 
however, enrichment and yield of valuables in the flotation step were 
non-satisfying. Nevertheless, recovery of valuable metals from urban stock is a 
viable method for the extension of the availability of limited natural 
resources.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2012.12.025
PMID: 23402897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Gynecol Oncol. 2013 May;129(2):332-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2013.02.002. Epub
 2013 Feb 8.

Modest benefit of total parenteral nutrition and chemotherapy after venting 
gastrostomy tube placement.

Diver E(1), O'Connor O, Garrett L, Boruta D, Goodman A, Del Carmen M, Schorge J, 
Mueller P, Growdon W.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Department of OB/GYN, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 55 Fruit Street, Yawkey 9, Boston, MA 
02114-2696, USA. ediver@partners.org

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study is to review a single institution's experience 
with gastrostomy tubes (GTs) performed for malignant bowel obstruction from 
gynecologic cancers.
METHODS: Women with gynecologic cancers who underwent venting GT placement from 
2000 to 2008 were identified and clinical data were extracted. Logistic 
regression and spearman correlational coefficients were used to determine 
relationships between variables. Survival analysis was performed using the 
Kaplan-Meier method and a Cox proportional hazard model.
RESULTS: We identified 115 women who underwent GT placement, the majority of 
whom were diagnosed with ovarian cancer (84%). Median time from cancer diagnosis 
to GT placement was 2.2 years. Median survival following GT placement was 5.6 
weeks. A majority (56%) developed GT complications requiring GT revision. While 
burden of disease as assessed on CT scan by the validated peritoneal cancer 
index (PCI) was not associated with survival, low CA-125 within one week of GT 
placement was associated with improved survival (p<0.01). TPN was administered 
in 36% of women, was associated with concurrent chemotherapy (p<0.001) and a 5 
week survival benefit (p<0.01). Chemotherapy after GT was administered in 40% of 
women and was associated with a 10 week survival benefit (p<0.001). Age-adjusted 
multivariate analysis identified chemotherapy as the only independent variable 
associated with survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Women with malignant bowel obstructions from gynecologic cancers 
requiring palliative GT placement had a guarded prognosis measured in weeks. 
Gastrostomy tubes near the end of life had a high rate of complications 
requiring medical intervention. Chemotherapy after GT was associated with TPN 
administration, and both were associated with a modest extension in survival.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2013.02.002
PMID: 23402902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Exp Gerontol. 2013 Apr;48(4):395-400. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.02.004. Epub
 2013 Feb 10.

Does the longevity of one or both parents influence the health status of their 
offspring?

Gueresi P(1), Miglio R, Monti D, Mari D, Sansoni P, Caruso C, Bonafede E, Bucci 
L, Cevenini E, Ostan R, Palmas MG, Pini E, Scurti M, Franceschi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistical Sciences, University of Bologna, Via Belle Arti, 
41, 40126 Bologna, Italy. paola.gueresi@unibo.it

According to the findings of some recent studies, the centenarians' offspring 
appear to represent a promising model for research on longevity and healthy 
aging. This study compares the health status and the functional status of three 
groups of subjects: 1. individuals with two long-lived parents (one of whom 
centenarian), 2. individuals with only one long-lived (centenarian) parent, and 
3. individuals with no long-lived parents. The goal is to verify whether the 
