

139. J Med Internet Res. 2013 Jan 23;15(1):e18. doi: 10.2196/jmir.2422.

Evaluating the translation process of an Internet-based self-help intervention 
for prevention of depression: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Lintvedt OK(1), Griffiths KM, Eisemann M, Waterloo K.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Department of Psychology, University of Tromsø, 
Huginbakken 32, Tromsø, Norway.

BACKGROUND: Depression is common and treatable with cognitive behavior therapy 
(CBT), for example. However, access to this therapy is limited. Internet-based 
interventions have been found to be effective in reducing symptoms of 
depression. The International Society for Research on Internet Interventions has 
highlighted the importance of translating effective Internet programs into 
multiple languages to enable worldwide dissemination.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the current study was to determine if it would be cost 
effective to translate an existing English-language Internet-based intervention 
for use in a non-English-speaking country.
METHODS: This paper reports an evaluation of a trial in which a research group 
in Norway translated two English-language Internet-based interventions into 
Norwegian (MoodGYM and BluePages) that had previously been shown to reduce 
symptoms of depression. The translation process and estimates of the 
cost-effectiveness of such a translation process is described. Estimated health 
effect was found by using quality-adjusted life years (QALY).
RESULTS: Conservative estimates indicate that for every 1000 persons treated, 16 
QALYs are gained. The investment is returned 9 times and the cost-effectiveness 
ratio (CER) is 3432. The costs of the translation project totaled to 
approximately 27% of the estimated original English-language version development 
costs.
CONCLUSIONS: The economic analysis shows that the cost-effectiveness of the 
translation project was substantial. Hopefully, these results will encourage 
others to do similar analyses and report cost-effectiveness data in their 
research reports.

DOI: 10.2196/jmir.2422
PMCID: PMC3636015
PMID: 23343481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: Dr Griffiths is one of 
the authors and developers of the MoodGYM and BluePages websites, but derives 
neither personal nor financial benefit from the programs.


140. Am J Ther. 2013 Jul-Aug;20(4):394-8. doi: 10.1097/MJT.0b013e318235f309.

Therapeutic potential of a low-cost device for wound healing: a study of three 
cases of healing after lower-extremity amputation in patients with diabetes.

Vidal A(1), Giacaman A, Oyarzun-Ampuero FA, Orellana S, Aburto I, Pavicic MF, 
Sánchez A, López C, Morales C, Caro M, Moreno-Villoslada I, Concha M.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Anatomía, Histología y Patología, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad Austral de Chile, Valdivia, Chile.

Diabetic foot ulcers constitute a tremendous challenge for patients, caregivers, 
and health care systems. The high incidence and high financial costs associated 
with their treatment have transformed them in a health and economic worldwide 
problem. The increase in population life expectancy and lifestyle changes have 
facilitated the spreading of diabetes, rising diabetic foot ulcer incidence. 
Only 60%-80% of the patients achieve healing of ulcers, and the incidence of a 
second ulcer, in the same or different site of the foot that has had a previous 
ulcer, is approximately 50% in 2-5 years. In addition, ulcers with duration 
longer than 4 weeks are commonly associated with bad results in healing and an 
increased risk of amputation. Three patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus have 
been subjected to treatment with NL.1.2, a low-cost, biocompatible solid device 
that presented pro-angiogenic properties. The selected patients had undergone 
amputation, and their wounds, classified as Wagner II, did not show a 
significant progress in healing after a period of 2-5 months before treatment 
with NL.1.2. Complete closure of their wounds was achieved in 42-60 days.

DOI: 10.1097/MJT.0b013e318235f309
PMID: 23344093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Surg Endosc. 2013 Jul;27(7):2526-41. doi: 10.1007/s00464-012-2776-4. Epub
2013  Jan 24.

Laparoscopic totally extraperitoneal versus open preperitoneal mesh repair for 
inguinal hernia recurrence: a decision analysis based on net health benefits.

Sgourakis G(1), Dedemadi G, Gockel I, Schmidtmann I, Lanitis S, Zaphiriadou P, 
Papatheodorou A, Karaliotas C.

Author information:
(1)2nd Surgical Department and Surgical Oncology Unit of "Korgialenio-Benakio", 
Red Cross Hospital, 11 Mantzarou St, Neo Psychiko, 15451 Athens, Greece. 
ggsgourakis@yahoo.gr

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study is to evaluate the most cost-effective 
treatment strategy using preperitoneal mesh for patients with recurrent inguinal 
hernia. Currently, the issue of cost-effectiveness is entirely unresolved.
METHODS: A decision analysis was carried out based on the results of a 
systematic literature review of articles concerning recurrent inguinal hernia 
repair that were published between 1979 and 2011. A virtual cohort was 
programmed to undergo three different treatment procedures: (1) laparoscopic 
totally extraperitoneal hernia repair (TEP), (2) open preperitoneal mesh repair 
according to Stoppa, and (3) open preperitoneal mesh repair according to Nyhus. 
We carried out a base-case analysis and varied all variables over a broad range 
of reasonable hypotheses in multiple one-way and two-way sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The average cost-effectiveness ratio of Nyhus, Stoppa, and TEP per 
quality-adjusted life year was US $ ($)1,942, $1,948, and $2,011, respectively. 
In terms of the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), Stoppa was 
dominated. The choice between TEP or Nyhus procedure depends on the combination 
of a specific center's rates of recurrence and morbidity as disclosed by 
three-way sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Nyhus and TEP repairs are possible optimal choices depending 
primarily on the institution's rates of recurrence and morbidity. Based on our 
net benefit-related decision analysis, a hypothetical "fixed budget trade-off" 
suggests potential annual incremental health system cost savings of $200,000 
attained by shifting care for 1,000 patients from TEP to Nyhus repair (depending 
on clinical end-points, which is a decisive factor).

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-012-2776-4
PMID: 23344511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Feb 5;110(6):2318-23. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1215498110. Epub 2013 Jan 23.

Hydrogel drug delivery system with predictable and tunable drug release and 
degradation rates.

Ashley GW(1), Henise J, Reid R, Santi DV.

Author information:
(1)ProLynx, San Francisco, CA 94158, USA.

Many drugs and drug candidates are suboptimal because of short duration of 
action. For example, peptides and proteins often have serum half-lives of only 
minutes to hours. One solution to this problem involves conjugation to 
circulating carriers, such as PEG, that retard kidney filtration and hence 
increase plasma half-life of the attached drug. We recently reported an approach 
to half-life extension that uses sets of self-cleaving linkers to attach drugs 
to macromolecular carriers. The linkers undergo β-eliminative cleavage to 
release the native drug with predictable half-lives ranging from a few hours to 
over 1 y; however, half-life extension becomes limited by the renal elimination 
rate of the circulating carrier. An approach to overcoming this constraint is to 
use noncirculating, biodegradable s.c. implants as drug carriers that are stable 
throughout the duration of drug release. Here, we use β-eliminative linkers to 
both tether drugs to and cross-link PEG hydrogels, and demonstrate tunable drug 
release and hydrogel erosion rates over a very wide range. By using one 
β-eliminative linker to tether a drug to the hydrogel, and another β-eliminative 
linker with a longer half-life to control polymer degradation, the system can be 
coordinated to release the drug before the gel undergoes complete erosion. The 
practical utility is illustrated by a PEG hydrogel-exenatide conjugate that 
should allow once-a-month administration, and results indicate that the 
technology may serve as a generic platform for tunable ultralong half-life 
extension of potent therapeutics.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1215498110
PMCID: PMC3568318
PMID: 23345437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


143. J Gastric Cancer. 2012 Dec;12(4):232-6. doi: 10.5230/jgc.2012.12.4.232. Epub
 2012 Dec 31.

Laparoscopy-assisted distal gastrectomy for early gastric cancer in the elderly.

Kim EJ(1), Seo KW, Yoon KY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Kosin University College of Medicine, Busan, Korea.

PURPOSE: With an increase in life expectancy, more elderly patients are 
presenting with gastric cancer. As a result it is yet be resolved whether 
laparoscopy assisted distal gastrectomy is a suitable treatment for elderly 
patients with early gastric cancer. This study retrospectively compared surgical 
outcomes of laparoscopy assisted distal gastrectomy between elderly and 
nonelderly patients with gastric cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study group was comprised of 316 patients who 
underwent laparoscopy assisted distal gastrectomy between April 2005 and 
December 2010. Of these patients, 93 patients whose ages were 65 years or more 
were compared with 223 patients who were younger.
RESULTS: There were no differences in the short term outcome or minor 
complication rate between the elderly patients and the nonelderly patients. The 
hospital stay was significantly longer and the major complication rate was 
significantly higher for the elderly patients compared with nonelderly patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopy assisted distal gastrectomy for early gastric cancer in 
the elderly patients had comparable operation time and blood loss with the 
nonelderly group. However, the safety and advantage of laparoscopy assisted 
distal gastrectomy in the elderly patients need to be further studied in higher 
volume trials.

DOI: 10.5230/jgc.2012.12.4.232
PMCID: PMC3543973
PMID: 23346495


144. Nurs Stand. 2012 Dec 12-2013 Jan 1;27(15-17):44-9. doi: 
10.7748/ns2012.12.27.15.44.c9484.

Cognitive impairment in patients with diabetes.

Wilson V(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Research and Policy, School of Health and Social Care, University 
of Greenwich, London. drvwilson@gmail.com

Type land type 2 diabetes are associated with major complications that shorten 
life expectancy. Fluctuations in the amount of glucose reaching the brain cause 
a wide range of alterations to cerebral function, from mild impairment through 
to dementia-like states and even death. The responsibility is on the patient 
with diabetes to control his or her blood glucose levels to reduce any mental 
decline. However, nursing staff should be aware that patients with diabetes 
experiencing a loss of mental function may have difficulty in understanding 
information and instructions. This article examines the current literature on 
loss of mental function as a chronic complication of diabetes.

DOI: 10.7748/ns2012.12.27.15.44.c9484
PMID: 23346706 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Rev Med Suisse. 2012 Dec 19;8(367):2445-6, 2448-51.

[Orthopaedic management of long bones metastasis].

[Article in French]

Fleury TR(1), Holzer N, Fleury M, Hoffmeyer PJ.

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie orthopédique et traumatologie de l'appareil moteur, 
Département de chirurgie, HUG, 1211 Genève 14. thierry.rod@hcuge.ch

The recent progress in oncologic management of patients with metastatic disease 
has permitted a significant improvement of their life expectancy. Many of these 
patients will suffer from complications related to bone metastasis. 
Unfortunately an orthopaedic treatment is seldom offered to them, mainly because 
of the misconception that this would not bring them any benefice. However these 
patients are often good candidates for an orthopaedic management, which 
objectives are to relieve pain and to re-establish their quality of life. The 
available surgical techniques are well described and the management protocols 
are clearly defined, as are the expectable complications and the errors that 
must not be done.

PMID: 23346749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Aging Cell. 2013 Apr;12(2):330-2. doi: 10.1111/acel.12050. Epub 2013 Feb 22.

Telomere length behaves as biomarker of somatic redundancy rather than 
biological age.

Boonekamp JJ(1), Simons MJ, Hemerik L, Verhulst S.

Author information:
(1)Behavioural Biology, University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.

Biomarkers of aging are essential to predict mortality and aging-related 
diseases. Paradoxically, age itself imposes a limitation on the use of known 
biomarkers of aging because their associations with mortality generally diminish 
with age. How this pattern arises is, however, not understood. With 
meta-analysis we show that human leucocyte telomere length (TL) predicts 
mortality, and that this mortality association diminishes with age, as found for 
other biomarkers of aging. Subsequently, we demonstrate with simulation models 
that this observation cannot be reconciled with the popular hypothesis that TL 
is proportional to biological age. Using the reliability theory of aging, we 
instead propose that TL is a biomarker of somatic redundancy, the body's 
capacity to absorb damage, which fits the observed pattern well. We discuss to 
what extent diminishing redundancy with age may also explain the observed 
diminishing mortality modulation with age of other biomarkers of aging. 
Considering diminishing somatic redundancy as the causal agent of aging may 
critically advance our understanding of the aging process, and improve 
predictions of life expectancy and vulnerability to aging-related diseases.

© 2013 The Authors Aging Cell © 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd/Anatomical Society 
of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12050
PMID: 23346961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Transfusion. 2013 Oct;53(10):2307-13. doi: 10.1111/trf.12083. Epub 2013 Jan
24.

Routine bacterial screening of apheresis platelets on Day 4 using a rapid test: 
a 4-year single-center experience.

Dunbar NM(1), Kreuter JD, Marx-Wood CR, Dumont LJ, Szczepiorkowski ZM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Department of Medicine, Center for Transfusion 
Medicine Research, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire; 
Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, New Hampshire; Department of 
Laboratory Medicine and Pathology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota.

BACKGROUND: The platelet (PLT) Pan Genera Detection test (PGD) is a rapid 
bacterial detection system used to screen PLTs for bacterial contamination. We 
report a single center 46-month experience with secondary screening of apheresis 
PLTs by PGD testing.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Existing testing records of apheresis PLTs screened by 
PGD from July 2008 to April 2012 were reviewed. All PLT units were initially 
screened by routine postcollection culture methods. Secondary screening using 
PGD was performed for indated PLTs on PLT storage Day 4 and for outdated PLTs on 
Day 8.
RESULTS: A total of 8535 apheresis PLTs were available in inventory during the 
study period. Of these, 5030 (58.9%) were dispensed and transfused before PGD 
testing and 3505 (41.1%) underwent PGD testing on Day 4. Twenty-five units 
tested on Day 4 were PGD initial reactive (0.71%). All were confirmed to be 
false positive by repeat PGD testing in triplicate (n=20) or by confirmatory 
culture (n=5). An additional 364 units that were PGD nonreactive on Day 4 were 
approved for transfusion on Day 6 or Day 7 due to urgent clinical need. A total 
of 371 outdated units underwent repeat PGD testing before discard on Day 8; all 
were nonreactive.
CONCLUSION: Secondary PGD testing of culture-screened apheresis PLTs results in 
low yield in a medium-sized transfusion service. Use of PGD testing on Day 4 may 
allow for extension of the apheresis PLT shelf life to Day 7 for hospitals that 
face supply constraints.

© 2013 American Association of Blood Banks.

DOI: 10.1111/trf.12083
PMID: 23347110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Int J Dermatol. 2013 Feb;52(2):153-62. doi:
10.1111/j.1365-4632.2012.05584.x.

Cardiovascular aspects of psoriasis: an updated review.

Pietrzak A(1), Bartosińska J, Chodorowska G, Szepietowski JC, Paluszkiewicz P, 
Schwartz RA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Medical University of Lublin, Lublin, Poland.

Comment in
    Int J Dermatol. 2014 Jun;53(6):e337.

Psoriasis, a systemic inflammatory disease, is associated with enhanced 
atherosclerosis and risk of cardiovascular (CV) disease, which may account for 
higher morbidity and mortality rates in psoriatic patients. It especially 
applies to younger psoriatic patients with more severe disease, reducing their 
life expectancy. The aim of the study was to review the literature on CV disease 
in psoriasis as well as the pathogenic mechanisms shared between psoriasis and 
atherosclerosis. Moreover, case-control and cohort studies published between 
2006 and 2011 were selected for meta-analysis. The meta-analysis indicates 
elevated risk of cardiovascular events in psoriatic patients in relation to 
non-psoriatic controls (OR 1.28; 95% CI 1.18-1.38). It is suggested that the 
treatment of the inflammatory processes involved in the pathogenesis of both 
psoriasis and atherosclerosis may be beneficial in reducing the CV risk in 
psoriatic patients. Further in-depth investigations, including prospective 
studies, are needed to enable more effective management of psoriatic patients in 
the future.

© 2013 The International Society of Dermatology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1365-4632.2012.05584.x
PMID: 23347301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Physiol Meas. 2013 Feb;34(2):189-201. doi: 10.1088/0967-3334/34/2/189. Epub
2013  Jan 25.

Bioimpedance system for monitoring muscle and cardiovascular activity in the 
stump of lower-limb amputees.

Hornero G(1), Díaz D, Casas O.

Author information:
(1)Instrumentation, Sensors and Interfaces Group, EETAC, Universitat Politècnica 
de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain. gemma.hornero@upc.edu

A bioimpedance system for the continuous measurement of non-invasive 
physiological parameters in lower-limb amputees is presented. The aim of the 
system is to monitor as many physiological parameters as possible from a single 
bioimpedance electrode configuration. In this way, a simple, low-cost and 
low-size autonomous system is developed that is able to continuously monitor the 
amputee in different environments (home, work, etc). The system measures both 
electrical impedance myography and electrical impedance plethysmography in the 
stump with electrodes placed in the inside face of a silicone interface. Such a 
system allows for the monitoring of a patient's muscle activity, and heart and 
breath rate, thus enabling the study and continuous monitoring of prosthesis 
adaptation and improvement of patient's gait to reduce physiological stress. 
Additionally, it can prevent cardiovascular problems due to the effort involved 
in the use of prostheses, which can decrease the life expectancy of amputees 
with previous vascular diseases. Experimental results obtained from different 
amputees' test validate the purpose of the system.

DOI: 10.1088/0967-3334/34/2/189
PMID: 23348608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Cancer Nurs. 2014 Jan-Feb;37(1):E12-8. doi: 10.1097/NCC.0b013e318279e479.

Living with advanced breast cancer: perceptions of Pakistani women on life 
expectations and fears.

Banning M(1), Tanzeen T.

Author information:
(1)Author Affiliations: School of Health Sciences and Social Care, Brunel 
University, Uxbridge, Middlesex, England (Dr Banning); and Shaukat Khanum Cancer 
Memorial Hospital and Research Centre, Lahore, Pakistan (Mrs Tanzeen).

BACKGROUND: Pakistan has the highest rate of breast cancer in Asia. Many women 
delay seeking heath advice and treatment for breast cancer, and between 50% and 
70% of women will present when the disease in is in an advanced, aggressive 
form, particularly young women. The psychological impact of breast cancer is 
challenged by the negative public perception of cancer.
OBJECTIVES: This qualitative study explored the psychological impact of advanced 
breast cancer in women receiving follow-up care in an oncology hospital in 
Pakistan.
METHODS: This qualitative study used semistructured interviews to explore 
women's experiences of living with advanced breast cancer and the impact that 
this had on their lives as women, mothers, and wives. Twenty-one women were 
interviewed. Data were analyzed using thematic analysis.
RESULTS: The majority of 21 women interviewed were diagnosed between 1 and 11 
years, and 15 women had a history of metastases. Four themes emerged from the 
data. These were reaction to the diagnosis, change in outlook, living life 
positively, and motivating factors.
CONCLUSION: Women acknowledged the significance of their illness on their health 
and longevity. Their individual cancer journey was multilayered and imbued with 
the hope of cure, remission, and an emotional catalog of feelings. All married 
women wished for sufficient time to visualize their children reach adulthood and 
marry. Single women wished to care for their mothers and families.
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Through education and support, nurses can provide 
women with advanced breast cancer and their families educational, spiritual, and 
psychological care.

DOI: 10.1097/NCC.0b013e318279e479
PMID: 23348663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. BMJ Case Rep. 2013 Jan 23;2013:bcr0320126132. doi: 10.1136/bcr.03.2012.6132.

Heart failure in the new born; vein of Galen aneurysmal malformation.

Mathews AZ(1), Ibhanesebhor S, Richens T, Manjunatha CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Wishaw General Hospital, Wishaw, Lanarkshire, UK. 
ashokmathews@hotmail.com

We narrate the case of a term baby who presented at 30 h of age in congestive 
cardiac failure due to vein of Galen aneurysmal malformation. A successful 
interventional radiology embolisation of the feeding vessels to the aneurysm was 
performed on day 5. Twenty hours following the procedure, the baby developed 
significant intraventricular haemorrhage with extension into the brain 
parenchyma; care was reoriented on day 7 of life after discussion with the 
parents. Vein of Galen aneurysmal malformation is a rare congenital vascular 
malformation. It usually manifests in the newborn period with high-output 
cardiac failure. The death rate is higher in those who present early in the 
neonatal period. The management of this condition requires a multidisciplinary 
approach.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr.03.2012.6132
PMCID: PMC3597353
PMID: 23349169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e52228. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052228. Epub 2013 Jan
18.

Muscle activity and inactivity periods during normal daily life.

Tikkanen O(1), Haakana P, Pesola AJ, Häkkinen K, Rantalainen T, Havu M, Pullinen 
T, Finni T.

Author information:
(1)Neuromuscular Research Center, Department of Biology of Physical Activity, 
University of Jyväskylä, Jyväskylä, Finland. olli.tikkanen@megaemg.com

Recent findings suggest that not only the lack of physical activity, but also 
prolonged times of sedentary behaviour where major locomotor muscles are 
inactive, significantly increase the risk of chronic diseases. The purpose of 
this study was to provide details of quadriceps and hamstring muscle inactivity 
and activity during normal daily life of ordinary people. Eighty-four volunteers 
(44 females, 40 males, 44.1±17.3 years, 172.3±6.1 cm, 70.1±10.2 kg) were 
measured during normal daily life using shorts measuring muscle 
electromyographic (EMG) activity (recording time 11.3±2.0 hours). EMG was 
normalized to isometric MVC (EMG(MVC)) during knee flexion and extension, and 
inactivity threshold of each muscle group was defined as 90% of EMG activity 
during standing (2.5±1.7% of EMG(MVC)). During normal daily life the average EMG 
amplitude was 4.0±2.6% and average activity burst amplitude was 5.8±3.4% of 
EMG(MVC) (mean duration of 1.4±1.4 s) which is below the EMG level required for 
walking (5 km/h corresponding to EMG level of about 10% of EMG(MVC)). Using the 
proposed individual inactivity threshold, thigh muscles were inactive 67.5±11.9% 
of the total recording time and the longest inactivity periods lasted for 
13.9±7.3 min (2.5-38.3 min). Women had more activity bursts and spent more time 
at intensities above 40% EMG(MVC) than men (p<0.05). In conclusion, during 
normal daily life the locomotor muscles are inactive about 7.5 hours, and only a 
small fraction of muscle's maximal voluntary activation capacity is used 
averaging only 4% of the maximal recruitment of the thigh muscles. Some daily 
non-exercise activities such as stair climbing produce much higher muscle 
activity levels than brisk walking, and replacing sitting by standing can 
considerably increase cumulative daily muscle activity.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052228
PMCID: PMC3548884
PMID: 23349681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


153. J Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Apr;28(4):593-607. doi: 10.1111/jgh.12128.

Asia-Pacific consensus recommendations for endoscopic and interventional 
management of hilar cholangiocarcinoma.

Rerknimitr R(1), Angsuwatcharakon P, Ratanachu-ek T, Khor CJ, Ponnudurai R, Moon 
JH, Seo DW, Pantongrag-Brown L, Sangchan A, Pisespongsa P, Akaraviputh T, Reddy 
ND, Maydeo A, Itoi T, Pausawasdi N, Punamiya S, Attasaranya S, Devereaux B, 
Ramchandani M, Goh KL; Asia-Pacific Working Group on Hepatobiliary Cancers.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, 
Bangkok, Thailand. ercp@live.com

Hilar cholangiocarcinoma (HCCA) is one of the most common types of hepatobiliary 
cancers reported in the world including Asia-Pacific region. Early HCCA may be 
completely asymptomatic. When significant hilar obstruction develops, the 
patient presents with jaundice, pale stools, dark urine, pruritus, abdominal 
pain, and sometimes fever. Because no single test can establish the definite 
diagnosis then, a combination of many investigations such as tumor markers, 
tissue acquisition, computed tomography scan, magnetic resonance 
imaging/magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography, endoscopic 
ultrasonography/intraductal ultrasonography, and advanced cholangioscopy is 
required. Surgery is the only curative treatment. Unfortunately, the majority of 
HCCA has a poor prognosis due to their advanced stage on presentation. Although 
there is no survival advantage, inoperable HCCA managed by palliative drainage 
may benefit from symptomatic improvement. Currently, there are three techniques 
of biliary drainage which include endoscopic, percutaneous, and surgical 
approaches. For nonsurgical approaches, stent is the most preferred device and 
there are two types of stents i.e. plastic and metal. Type of stent and number 
of stent for HCCA biliary drainage are subjected to debate because the decision 
is made under many grounds i.e. volume of liver drainage, life expectancy, 
expertise of the facility, etc. Recently, radio-frequency ablation and 
photodynamic therapy are promising techniques that may extend drainage patency. 
Through a review in the literature and regional data, the Asia-Pacific Working 
Group for hepatobiliary cancers has developed statements to assist clinicians in 
diagnosing and managing of HCCA. After voting anonymously using modified Delphi 
method, all final statements were determined for the level of evidence quality 
and strength of recommendation.

© 2013 Journal of Gastroenterology and Hepatology Foundation and Wiley 
Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jgh.12128
PMID: 23350673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Clin Transplant. 2013 Mar-Apr;27(2):289-96. doi: 10.1111/ctr.12073. Epub
2013  Jan 27.

More donors or more delayed graft function? A cost-effectiveness analysis of DCD 
kidney transplantation.

Snyder RA(1), Moore DR, Moore DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
TN, USA.

Expansion of the donor pool with expanded criteria donors and donation after 
cardiac death (DCD) donors is essential. DCD grafts result in increased rates of 
primary non-function (PNF) and delayed graft function (DGF). However, long-term 
patient and graft survival is similar between donation after brain death (DBD) 
donors and DCD donors. The aim of this study was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of the use of DCD donors. A Markov-based decision analytic 
model was created to simulate outcomes for two wait list strategies: (i) wait 
list composed of only DBD organs and (ii) wait list combining DBD and DCD 
organs. Baseline values and ranges were determined from the Scientific Registry 
of Transplant Recipients (SRTR) database and literature review. Sensitivity 
analyses were conducted to test model strength and parameter variability. The 
wait list strategy consisting of DBD donors only provided recipients 5.4 
Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) at $65 000/QALY, whereas a wait list 
strategy combining DBD + DCD donors provided recipients 6.0 QALYs at a cost of 
$56 000/QALY. Wait lists with DCD donors provide adequate long-term survival 
despite more DGF. This equates to an improvement in quality of life and 
decreased cost when compared to remaining on dialysis for any period of time.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/ctr.12073
PMID: 23350938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. Can J Surg. 2013 Feb;56(1):47-57. doi: 10.1503/cjs.036111.

Biological effects of bariatric surgery on obesity-related comorbidities.

Noria SF(1), Grantcharov T.

Author information:
(1)The Department of Surgery, Division of General and Minimally Invasive 
Surgery, St. Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto, Ont., Canada. 
sabrena.noria@gmail.com

The prevalence of obesity has increased so rapidly over the last few decades 
that it is now considered a global epidemic. Obesity, defined as a body mass 
index (BMI) of 30 or more, is associated with several comorbid conditions that 
decrease life expectancy and increase health care costs. Diet therapies have 
been reported to be ineffective in the long-term treatment of obesity, and 
guidelines for the surgical therapy of morbid obesity (BMI ≥ 40 or BMI ≥ 35 in 
the presence of substantial comorbidities) have since been established. 
Considering the number of bariatric surgical procedures has dramatically 
increased since these guidelines were established, we review the types of 
bariatric surgical procedures and their impact on diabetes, sleep apnea, 
dyslipidemia and hypertension - 4 major obesity-related comorbidities.

La prévalence de l’obésité a augmenté si rapidement au cours des quelques 
dernières décennies qu’on considère désormais qu’il s’agit d’une épidémie 
mondiale. L’obésité, définie par un indice de masse corporelle (IMC) de 30 ou 
plus, est associée à plusieurs comorbidités qui réduisent l’espérance de vie et 
font augmenter le coût des soins de santé. La diétothérapie serait inefficace 
pour le traitement à long terme de l’obésité et des lignes directrices 
concernant le traitement chirurgical de l’obésité morbide (IMC ≥ 40 ou IMC ≥ 35 
en présence d’autres comorbidités importantes) ont donc été établies. Compte 
tenu du fait que le nombre de chirurgies bariatriques a considérablement 
augmenté depuis la parution de ces lignes directrices, nous passons en revue les 
différents types de chirurgies bariatriques et leur impact sur le diabète, 
l’apnée du sommeil, la dyslipidémie et l’hypertension, 4 importantes 
comorbidités liées à l’obésité.

DOI: 10.1503/cjs.036111
PMCID: PMC3569476
PMID: 23351555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


156. Encephale. 2013 May;39 Suppl 1:S49-56. doi: 10.1016/j.encep.2012.11.004.
Epub  2013 Jan 23.

[The cost of schizophrenia: a literature review].

[Article in French]

Charrier N(1), Chevreul K, Durand-Zaleski I.

Author information:
(1)URC Eco (unité de recherche clinique spécialisée en économie de la santé), 
Hôtel Dieu, AP-HP, 1, place du Parvis-Notre-Dame, 75005 Paris, France. 
nathanael.charrier@urc-eco.fr

INTRODUCTION: Schizophrenia represents a major burden for patients, their 
families, healthcare systems and societies. The objective of this literature 
review is to document the economic burden of schizophrenia.
METHOD: The literature search was performed using the MEDLINE-PUBMED database 
and the following keywords: schizophrenia and cost, burden of disease, qaly or 
price. The grey literature search was performed using several databases (e.g. 
Banque de Données en Santé Publique) and the Google Scholar(®) web search 
engine. The studies that met the following criteria were included: published 
since 1998, written in English or French, studied OECD countries and presented 
costs data that were given in monetary terms. The costs data identified in the 
literature were classified into the following five main categories: cost for 
healthcare system, cost for social and medico-social system (medico-social 
system is a French specificity), cost for prison and legal systems, cost of 
informal care given by family, and cost associated with productivity losses. To 
improve comparability, costs were reported as a percentage of health care 
expenditures and as a per-ten-thousand of GDP (gross domestic product).
RESULTS: Among the 201 articles identified as potentially relevant to the topic, 
nine were included in the literature review. Schizophrenia health care costs 
ranged from four (Ireland) to 140000 of GDP (Spain). Hospital care was the main 
health care cost driver but ranged from 19 (USA) to 92% (Belgium) demonstrating 
a great variability in treatment patterns. The costs for social and 
medico-social system ranged from 1.3 (Korea) to 13.80000 of GDP (USA) and the 
costs of informal caregivers ranged from 1.2 (Australia) to 12.70000 of GDP 
(Spain). The productivity losses associated with unemployment ranged from 6.2 
(Australia) to 21.30000 of GDP (USA). The productivity losses associated with 
premature mortality ranged from less than 0.01 (Canada) to 3.850000 (Ireland). 
Among others factors, such as targeted population, the choice of valuation 
method between "Friction costs" and "Human Capital" could account for the 
heterogeneity of estimates.
DISCUSSION: Median health care costs of schizophrenia represented 1.1% of total 
national health care expenditures. Productivity losses associated with morbidity 
constituted the major cost burden of schizophrenia. Valuation method, costs 
items, target populations and prevalence rates differed widely from study to 
study. Furthermore, the burden attributable to loss of quality of life was not 
estimated in the studies.
CONCLUSION: Cost-of-illness studies of schizophrenia provide information about 
its burden on society. The external validity of such studies however is poor and 
justifies country-specific data collection.

Copyright © 2012 L’Encéphale, Paris. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.encep.2012.11.004
PMID: 23351935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


157. J Stroke Cerebrovasc Dis. 2014 Jan;23(1):140-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2012.11.012. Epub 2013 Jan 22.

Stroke subtypes and comorbidity among ischemic stroke patients in Brasilia and 
Cuenca: a Brazilian-Spanish cross-cultural study.

Carod-Artal FJ(1), Casanova Lanchipa JO(2), Cruz Ramírez LM(2), Pérez NS(2), 
Siacara Aguayo FM(2), Moreno IG(2), Romero LG(2), Coral LF(3), Trizotto DS(3), 
Moreira CM(3).

Author information:
(1)Neurology Department, Virgen de la Luz Hospital, Cuenca, Spain; Universitat 
Internacional de Catalunya, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: 
fjcarod-artal@hotmail.com.
(2)Neurology Department, Virgen de la Luz Hospital, Cuenca, Spain.
(3)Neurology Department, Sarah Hospital, Brasilia DF, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: With the increase in life expectancy worldwide, changes in stroke 
subtypes and burden of stroke population are expected in both developing and 
developed countries. Prevalence of stroke subtypes and comorbidity in ischemic 
stroke patients was assessed in Brasilia, Brazil, and Cuenca, Spain.
METHODS: This was an international (Brazilian-Spanish) cross-sectional study. 
Stroke subtypes were assessed by means of Trial of ORG 10172 in Acute Stroke 
Treatment (TOAST) classification. Modified Rankin scale was used to measure 
functional recovery and the Cumulative Illness Rating Scale for Geriatrics 
(CIRS-G) was used to assess comorbidity.
RESULTS: A total of 500 patients (mean age 66.2 ± 16.4 years; 48% female; 48.2% 
Spanish) were included in the study. Spanish patients were significantly older 
than Brazilian ones (76.4 ± 11.2 versus 56.7 ± 14.6 years; P < .0001). 
Prevalence of ischemic cardiopathy (20.3% versus 6.2%) and atrial fibrillation 
(25.7% versus 6.6%) was significantly higher in Spanish stroke patients, whereas 
they less frequently used tobacco (28.3% versus 52.9%); P less than .0001. 
Prevalence of stroke subtypes in Spanish and Brazilian stroke patients was: 
stroke of undetermined etiology (58.1% versus 32.4%), cardioembolism (24.5% 
versus 11.6%), lacunar infarct (11.6% versus 25.5%), atherothrombotic (3.7% 
versus 19.7%), and other causes (2.1% versus 10.8%); P less than .0001. The 
Spanish sample had a significantly higher frequency of comorbidities. The CIRS-G 
total score and CIRS-G mean number of affected organs significantly increased 
with age, and correlated with the level of functional dependence as measured by 
Rankin scale (rS = 0.50; P = .0005).
CONCLUSION: Spanish stroke people had a higher frequency of comorbid conditions, 
atrial fibrillation, and cardioembolism and these facts were associated with 
age. Atherothrombotic and lacunar strokes were more common in the younger 
Brazilian stroke population.

Copyright © 2014 National Stroke Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jstrokecerebrovasdis.2012.11.012
PMID: 23352689 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


158. RNA Biol. 2013 Feb;10(2):192-204. doi: 10.4161/rna.23208. Epub 2013 Jan 25.

A high-throughput screen to identify enhancers of ADAR-mediated RNA-editing.

Garncarz W(1), Tariq A, Handl C, Pusch O, Jantsch MF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chromosome Biology, Max F. Perutz Laboratories, University of 
Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

Adenosine to inosine deamination of RNA is widespread in metazoa. Inosines are 
recognized as guanosines and, therefore, this RNA-editing can influence the 
coding potential, localization and stability of RNAs. Therefore, RNA editing 
contributes to the diversification of the transcriptome in a flexible manner. 
The editing reaction is performed by adenosine deaminases that act on RNA 
(ADARs), which are essential for normal life and development in many organisms. 
Changes in editing levels are observed during development but also in 
neurological pathologies like schizophrenia, depression or tumors. Frequently, 
changes in editing levels are not reflected by changes in ADAR levels suggesting 
a regulation of enzyme activity. Until now, only a few factors are known that 
influence the activity of ADARs. Here we present a two-stage in vivo editing 
screen aimed to isolate enhancers of editing. A primary, high-throughput 
yeast-screen is combined with a more accurate secondary screen in mammalian 
cells that uses a fluorescent read-out to detect minor differences in 
RNA-editing. The screen was successfully employed to identify DSS1/SHFM1, the 
RNA binding protein hnRNP A2/B1 and a 3' UTR as enhancers of editing. By varying 
intracellular DSS1/SHFM1 levels, we can modulate A to I editing by up to 30%. 
Proteomic analysis indicates an interaction of DSS1/SHFM1 and hnRNP A2/B1 
suggesting that both factors may act by altering the cellular RNP landscape. An 
extension of this screen to cDNAs from different tissues or developmental stages 
may prove useful for the identification of additional enhancers of RNA-editing.

DOI: 10.4161/rna.23208
PMCID: PMC3594278
PMID: 23353575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Ageing Res Rev. 2013 Mar;12(2):567-78. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.01.004. Epub
2013  Jan 24.

Life's timekeeper.

Neill D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Newcastle University, Newcastle Upon Tyne NE1 7RU, 
United Kingdom. david.neill@ncl.ac.uk

Life's timekeeper is a 'free-running' intracellular oscillator synchronised 
across all cells. It runs throughout life splitting lifespan into equal length 
phases. During the maturational period it controls the overall rate of 
progression whereas in the post-maturational period it controls the overall rate 
of ageing. This includes the rate of senescence and hence time to death. As such 
life's timekeeper equates maturational and post-maturational time, hence 
explains the tight correlation between these time periods that has existed 
throughout mammalian evolution. Life's timekeeper is proposed to have played an 
important role in vertebrate evolution. A slower oscillatory frequency results 
in proportional life phase prolongation. This leads to increased body and brain 
size, together with extended lifespan. Higher brain centres, neocortex in 
mammals, are disproportionately enlarged. Hence behavioural capacity is 
increased. The extended post-maturational period ensures that there is enough 
time in order that the behavioural advantages can be fully manifest in the 
environment. A faster oscillatory frequency would result in proportional life 
phase reduction. This process however would lead to reduced behavioural 
capacity, and is hence unlikely to be positively selected. Therefore throughout 
evolution life's timekeeper has operated to extend lifespan. It has hence 
functioned to promote longevity as opposed to ageing.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.01.004
PMID: 23354279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. J Vis Exp. 2013 Jan 16;(71):e50023. doi: 10.3791/50023.

Right ventricular systolic pressure measurements in combination with harvest of 
lung and immune tissue samples in mice.

Chen WC(1), Park SH, Hoffman C, Philip C, Robinson L, West J, Grunig G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, 
Tuxedo, USA.

The function of the right heart is to pump blood through the lungs, thus linking 
right heart physiology and pulmonary vascular physiology. Inflammation is a 
common modifier of heart and lung function, by elaborating cellular 
infiltration, production of cytokines and growth factors, and by initiating 
remodeling processes. Compared to the left ventricle, the right ventricle is a 
low-pressure pump that operates in a relatively narrow zone of pressure changes. 
Increased pulmonary artery pressures are associated with increased pressure in 
the lung vascular bed and pulmonary hypertension. Pulmonary hypertension is 
often associated with inflammatory lung diseases, for example chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, or autoimmune diseases. Because pulmonary 
hypertension confers a bad prognosis for quality of life and life expectancy, 
much research is directed towards understanding the mechanisms that might be 
targets for pharmaceutical intervention. The main challenge for the development 
of effective management tools for pulmonary hypertension remains the complexity 
of the simultaneous understanding of molecular and cellular changes in the right 
heart, the lungs and the immune system. Here, we present a procedural workflow 
for the rapid and precise measurement of pressure changes in the right heart of 
mice and the simultaneous harvest of samples from heart, lungs and immune 
tissues. The method is based on the direct catheterization of the right 
ventricle via the jugular vein in close-chested mice, first developed in the 
late 1990s as surrogate measure of pressures in the pulmonary artery. The 
organized team-approach facilitates a very rapid right heart catheterization 
technique. This makes it possible to perform the measurements in mice that 
spontaneously breathe room air. The organization of the work-flow in distinct 
work-areas reduces time delay and opens the possibility to simultaneously 
perform physiology experiments and harvest immune, heart and lung tissues. The 
procedural workflow outlined here can be adapted for a wide variety of 
laboratory settings and study designs, from small, targeted experiments, to 
large drug screening assays. The simultaneous acquisition of cardiac physiology 
data that can be expanded to include echocardiography and harvest of heart, lung 
and immune tissues reduces the number of animals needed to obtain data that move 
the scientific knowledge basis forward. The procedural workflow presented here 
also provides an ideal basis for gaining knowledge of the networks that link 
immune, lung and heart function. The same principles outlined here can be 
adapted to study other or additional organs as needed.

DOI: 10.3791/50023
PMCID: PMC3582655
PMID: 23354416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2013 Apr;71(4):893-904. doi: 
10.1007/s00280-013-2080-6. Epub 2013 Jan 26.

Thrombocytosis and immunohistochemical expression of connexin 43 at diagnosis 
predict survival in advanced non-small-cell lung cancer treated with 
cisplatin-based chemotherapy.

Du G(1), Yang Y, Zhang Y, Sun T, Liu W, Wang Y, Li J, Zhang H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacy, Pharmacy College of Henan University, Jinming street, 
Kaifeng, 475004 Henan, China. kfdgj@sohu.com

Erratum in
    Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2013 Jul;72(1):275. Yang, Yingming [corrected to 
Yang, Yiming].

PURPOSE: Patients with advanced non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) have poor 
survival, and platinum-based chemotherapy agents are the standard first-line 
chemotherapy agents for advanced NSCLC. This study aimed to identify predictive 
factors associated with the response to chemotherapy and survival in 258 
patients with advanced NSCLC treated with platinum-based chemotherapy.
METHODS: Stage IIIA-IV NSCLC patients diagnosed in Kaifeng second people's 
hospital (Henan, China) between March 2002 and September 2011 were 
retrospectively reviewed. All of the patients had received platinum-based 
chemotherapy, and patients were followed up to date of death or last follow-up 
to obtain data of response to chemotherapy and survival. Potential prognostic 
factors such as gender, age, tumor size, tumor type, histologic stage, anemia, 
calcium levels, ECOG performance status (PS), thrombocytosis, TTF-1, p63, and 
connexin 43 were analyzed. Response to chemotherapy, overall survival (OS) and 
progression-free survival (PFS) were calculated by the Kaplan-Meier method and 
Cox regression model.
RESULTS: A univariate analysis indicated that thrombocytosis and connexin 43 
were found to be significant prognostic factors (p < 0.001) and ECOG PS, Hb 
levels, and p63 presented a tendency toward association with survival. 
Kaplan-Meier survival showed that the mean OS and PFS in chemotherapy responders 
with connexin 43 ≥ +2 were significantly longer than in chemotherapy responders 
with connexin 43 ≤ 1+. In contrast, thrombocytosis was associated with increased 
mortality and resistance to chemotherapy in chemotherapy responders. In 
addition, all 21 patients of the 5-year OS were from chemotherapy responders 
with connexin 43 ≥ +2 or non-thrombocytosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Thrombocytosis and connexin 43 absence may be reliable surrogate 
markers for the prediction of chemotherapy response and prognosis for patients 
with advanced NSCLC, and assessment of these factors may identify a population 
of patients with advanced NSCLC that is likely to have a prolonged life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-013-2080-6
PMID: 23355038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 Jan;15(1):7-18. doi: 10.1007/s10198-012-0443-2. Epub
 2013 Jan 25.

Health state utilities for skeletal-related events secondary to bone metastases.

Matza LS(1), Chung K, Van Brunt K, Brazier JE, Braun A, Currie B, Palsgrove A, 
Davies E, Body JJ.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research, United BioSource Corporation, 7101 Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 
600, Bethesda, MD, 20814, USA, louis.matza@unitedbiosource.com.

INTRODUCTION: Patients with bone metastases often experience skeletal-related 
events (SREs). Although cost-utility models are used to examine treatments for 
metastatic cancer, limited information is available on utilities of SREs. The 
purpose of this study was to estimate the disutility of four SREs: spinal cord 
compression, pathological fracture, radiation to bone, and surgery performed to 
stabilize a bone.
METHODS: General population participants from the UK and Canada completed time 
trade-off (TTO) interviews to assess the utility of health states drafted based 
on literature review, clinician interviews, and patient interviews. Respondents 
first rated a health state describing cancer with bone metastases. Then, the 
SREs were added to this health state.
RESULTS: Interviews were completed with 187 participants (50.8 % male, 80.2 % 
white). Cancer with bone metastases without an SRE had a mean utility of 0.47 
(SD = 0.43) on a standard utility scale (1 = full health, 0 = death). Of the 
SREs, spinal cord compression was associated with the greatest disutility (i.e., 
the utility decrease): -0.32 with paralysis and -0.22 without paralysis. Surgery 
had a disutility of -0.07. Leg, arm, and rib fractures had disutilities of 
-0.06, -0.04, and -0.03. Two weeks of daily radiation treatment had a disutility 
of -0.06, while two radiation appointments had the smallest impact on utility 
(-0.02).
CONCLUSION: All SREs were associated with statistically significant utility 
decreases, suggesting a perceived impact on quality of life beyond the impact of 
cancer with bone metastases. The resulting disutilities may be used in 
cost-utility models examining treatments to prevent SREs secondary to bone 
metastases.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-012-0443-2
PMCID: PMC3889679
PMID: 23355121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2013 Feb;11(1):65-78. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-012-0007-8.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of boceprevir for the treatment of chronic hepatitis 
C virus genotype 1 infection in Portugal.

Elbasha EH(1), Chhatwal J, Ferrante SA, El Khoury AC, Laires PA.

Author information:
(1)Merck Sharp & Dohme Corp., Whitehouse Station, NJ, USA. 
elamin_elbasha@merck.com

BACKGROUND: The recent approval of two protease inhibitors, boceprevir and 
telaprevir, is likely to change the management of chronic hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) genotype 1 infection.
OBJECTIVES: We evaluated the long-term clinical outcomes and the cost 
effectiveness of therapeutic strategies using boceprevir with peginterferon plus 
ribavirin (PR) in comparison with PR alone for treating HCV genotype 1 infection 
in Portugal.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to project the expected lifetime costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) associated with PR alone and the treatment 
strategies outlined by the European Medicines Agency in the boceprevir summary 
of product characteristics. The boceprevir-based therapeutic strategies differ 
according to whether or not the patient was previously treated and whether or 
not the patient had compensated cirrhosis. The model simulated the experience of 
a series of cohorts of chronically HCV-infected patients (each defined by age, 
sex, race and fibrosis score). All treatment-related inputs were obtained from 
boceprevir clinical trials - SPRINT-2, RESPOND-2 and PROVIDE. Estimates of the 
natural history parameters and health state utilities were based on published 
studies. Portugal-specific annual direct costs of HCV health states were 
estimated by convening a panel of experts to derive health state resource use 
and multiplying the results by national unit costs. The model was developed from 
a healthcare system perspective with a timeframe corresponding to the remaining 
duration of the patients' lifetimes. Both future costs and QALYs were discounted 
at 5 %. To test the robustness of the conclusions, we conducted deterministic 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In comparison with the treatment with PR alone, boceprevir-based 
regimens were projected to reduce the lifetime incidence of advanced liver 
