also in the urological literature. Radiation exposure has been examined in 
urological diseases such as testicular cancer and urinary stone disease, with 
resultant recommendations for modifying surveillance imaging. Radiation risk 
with respect to surveillance regimens after RCC surgery has yet to be examined. 
We consider this largely to be a result of RCC typically affecting older 
patients in whom cumulative radiation exposure may be less of a consideration. 
However, current population data emphasize that RCC diagnosis and therapy have 
an increasing impact upon younger patients with a longer life expectancy after 
treatment. Therefore, radiation considerations in this cohort of patients may be 
significant.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the 10-year cumulative radiation exposure incurred on 
different surveillance imaging protocols after surgery for pT1 renal cell 
carcinoma (RCC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The PubMed database was queried for surveillance 
protocols after surgery for RCC. There were two index lesions that were 
selected: (i) pT1a 3 cm, Fuhrman 2, clear cell and (ii) pT1b 5 cm, Fuhrman 3, 
clear cell. Exposure for single-phase chest computed tomography (CT), abdominal 
CT and chest X-ray were 7, 8 and 0.1 mSV, respectively. Calculations assumed 
biphasic CT scans, negative surgical margins and an Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
Group status of ≤1.
RESULTS: In total, 12 published surveillance regimens were identified. For the 
first lesion (pT1a, clear cell, Fuhrman 2), we observed significant variability 
in the proposed regimens, ranging from no imaging to several CT scans of both 
chest and abdomen. Cumulative incurred radiation exposure for this index patient 
was in the range 0-102 mSv (mean, 34 mSv). When considering the second tumour 
(pT1b, clear cell, Fuhrman 3), all studies recommended some form of follow-up 
imaging, although regimens once again varied from annual chest X-ray to multiple 
CT scans of chest and abdomen. Cumulative incurred radiation exposure in this 
scenario was in the range 0.5-450 mSv (mean, 89 mSV).
CONCLUSIONS: Surveillance protocols after surgery for early-stage RCC result in 
widely divergent levels of radiation exposure. Such considerations are 
increasingly paramount given concerns of radiation-induced secondary 
malignancies and present another reason to standardize follow-up protocols.

© 2013 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11531.x
PMID: 23331317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2010 Apr;34(2):187-92. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.2010.00505.x.

Beliefs about bowel cancer among the target group for the National Bowel Cancer 
Screening Program in Australia.

Jalleh G(1), Donovan RJ, Lin C, Slevin T, Clayforth C, Pratt IS, Ledger M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Behavioural Research in Cancer Control, Curtin University of 
Technology, Perth, Western Australia, Australia. g.jalleh@curtin.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To assess awareness of and intentions and self-reported participation 
in the National Bowel Cancer Screening Program (NBCSP) in Australia and the 
program's impact on knowledge of and beliefs about bowel cancer.
METHOD: Cross-sectional, computer-assisted telephone surveys of Western 
Australians aged 55-74 years conducted in April 2007 (n = 505) and June 2008 (n 
= 500) measured beliefs about the prevalence of bowel cancer, its 
preventability, impact of early detection on life expectancy, knowledge of the 
symptoms and tests for bowel cancer, and awareness of and participation in the 
NBCSP.
RESULTS: In 2008, awareness of the Program was 58%. Seventy-seven per cent of 
those invited to participate in the program agreed to do so. The vast majority 
believed bowel cancer to be preventable (83%), with early treatment making 'a 
great deal of difference' to life expectancy (85%). Awareness of blood in faeces 
as a sign of bowel cancer increased from 64% in 2007 to 75% in 2008 (p<0.01). 
Awareness of FOBT as a test for bowel cancer increased from 54% in 2007 to 70% 
in 2008 (p<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The NBCSP appears to have increased knowledge of bowel cancer.
IMPLICATIONS: Education and screening campaigns are required to further increase 
perceived prevalence of bowel cancer and to increase knowledge of symptoms and 
risk factors.

© 2010 The Authors. Journal Compilation © 2010 Public Health Association of 
Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.2010.00505.x
PMID: 23331364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2010 Apr;34(2):214-5. doi: 
10.1111/j.1753-6405.2010.00509.x.

High body mass index overtakes tobacco as the leading independent risk factor 
contributing to disease burden in Western Australia.

Hoad V, Somerford P, Katzenellenbogen J.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1753-6405.2010.00509.x
PMID: 23331368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Am J Med. 2013 Feb;126(2):e9. doi: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2012.06.034.

Model to minimize inappropriate medications in the elderly.

Regal P.

Comment on
    Am J Med. 2012 Jun;125(6):529-37.e4.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2012.06.034
PMID: 23331457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. BMC Res Notes. 2013 Jan 18;6:19. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-6-19.

Topical tacrolimus 0.1% ointment for treatment of cutaneous Crohn's Disease.

Rice SA(1), Woo PN, El-Omar E, Keenan RA, Ormerod AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Aberdeen Royal Infirmary, Foresterhill, Aberdeen 
AB25 2ZB, UK.

BACKGROUND: Cutaneous Crohn's Disease is a notoriously difficult condition to 
treat and causes significant morbidity, impacting heavily on quality of life. 
This is the first study in adults examining the effect of topical tacrolimus on 
the different cutaneous manifestations of Crohn's Disease.
METHODS: This open label observational study of 20 patients with heterogeneous 
forms of cutaneous Crohn's disease used topical tacrolimus 0.1% ointment once 
daily to affected areas for 12 weeks with a maximal total dose of 90g. Therapy 
was stopped at 12 weeks to assess whether the condition relapsed. Thereafter 
relapsing patients optionally continued an open label extension of topical 
tacrolimus therapy and were observed for a total of 12 months.
RESULTS: Of seventeen patients completing the twelve-week study, fifteen 
improved using a specifically designed physicians' global severity scale. One 
patient cleared, four showed a pronounced improvement (51-75%) and ten 
demonstrated a mild (1-25%) or moderate improvement (25-50%) in twelve weeks. 
Over twelve months eleven patients remained in the study, nine of which 
improved, one cleared and one showed no change. Perineal disease responded 
better with two out of twelve clearing, four showing pronounced benefit and four 
mild to moderate improvement. Long-term application of 0.1% tacrolimus applied 
to broken skin and mucosa was safe and serum levels of tacrolimus were 
undetectable in all subjects throughout the study.
CONCLUSION: 0.1% tacrolimus ointment was safe and effective in treating 
cutaneous manifestations of Crohn's disease, particularly perineal disease and 
pyoderma gangrenosum, yet it seldom cleared the condition.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Protocol Registration System ID: 
33000332.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-6-19
PMCID: PMC3607997
PMID: 23331739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Health Technol Assess. 2013;17(1):v-vi, 1-188. doi: 10.3310/hta17010.

Systematic review, meta-analysis and economic modelling of diagnostic strategies 
for suspected acute coronary syndrome.

Goodacre S(1), Thokala P, Carroll C, Stevens JW, Leaviss J, Al Khalaf M, 
Collinson P, Morris F, Evans P, Wang J.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.

BACKGROUND: Current practice for suspected acute coronary syndrome (ACS) 
involves troponin testing 10-12 hours after symptom onset to diagnose myocardial 
infarction (MI). Patients with a negative troponin can be investigated further 
with computed tomographic coronary angiography (CTCA) or exercise 
electrocardiography (ECG).
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to estimate the diagnostic accuracy of early biomarkers for 
MI, the prognostic accuracy of biomarkers for major adverse cardiac adverse 
events (MACEs) in troponin-negative patients, the diagnostic accuracy of CTCA 
and exercise ECG for coronary artery disease (CAD) and the prognostic accuracy 
of CTCA and exercise ECG for MACEs in patients with suspected ACS. We then aimed 
to estimate the cost-effectiveness of using alternative biomarker strategies to 
diagnose MI, and using biomarkers, CTCA and exercise ECG to risk-stratify 
troponin-negative patients.
DATA SOURCES: We searched MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed 
Citations; Cumulative Index of Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), 
EMBASE, Web of Science, Cochrane Central Database of Controlled Trials 
(CENTRAL), Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR), NHS Database of 
Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE) and the Health Technology Assessment 
database from 1985 (CTCA review) or 1995 (biomarkers review) to November 2010, 
reviewed citation lists and contacted experts to identify relevant studies.
REVIEW METHODS: Diagnostic studies were assessed using the Quality Assessment of 
Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS) tool and prognostic studies using a 
framework adapted for the project. Meta-analysis was conducted using bayesian 
Markov chain Monte Carlo simulation. We developed a decision-analysis model to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of alternative biomarker strategies to diagnose 
MI, and the cost-effectiveness of biomarkers, CTCA or exercise ECG to 
risk-stratify patients with a negative troponin. Strategies were applied to a 
theoretical cohort of patients with suspected ACS. Cost-effectiveness was 
estimated as the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of each 
strategy compared with the next most effective, taking a health-service 
perspective and a lifetime horizon.
RESULTS: Sensitivity and specificity (95% predictive interval) were 77% (29-96%) 
and 93% (46-100%) for troponin I, 80% (33-97%) and 91% (53-99%) for troponin T 
(99th percentile threshold), 81% (50-95%) and 80% (26-98%) for quantitative 
heart-type fatty acid-binding protein (H-FABP), 68% (11-97%) and 92% (20-100%) 
for qualitative H-FABP, 77% (19-98%) and 39% (2-95%) for ischaemia-modified 
albumin and 62% (35-83%) and 83% (35-98%) for myoglobin. CTCA had 94% (61-99%) 
sensitivity and 87% (16-100%) specificity for CAD. Positive CTCA and 
positive-exercise ECG had relative risks of 5.8 (0.6-24.5) and 8.0 (2.3-22.7) 
for MACEs. In most scenarios in the economic analysis presentation, 
high-sensitivity troponin measurement was the most effective strategy with an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of less than the £20,000-30,000/QALY 
threshold (ICER £7487-17,191/QALY). CTCA appeared to be the most cost-effective 
strategy for patients with a negative troponin, with an ICER of £11,041/QALY. 
However, when a lower MACE rate was assumed, CTCA had a high ICER 
(£262,061/QALY) and the no-testing strategy was optimal.
LIMITATIONS: There was substantial variation between the primary studies and 
heterogeneity in their results. Findings of the economic model were dependent on 
assumptions regarding the value of detecting and treating positive cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Although presentation troponin has suboptimal sensitivity, 
measurement of a 10-hour troponin level is unlikely to be cost-effective in most 
scenarios compared with a high-sensitivity presentation troponin. CTCA may be a 
cost-effective strategy for troponin-negative patients, but further research is 
required to estimate the effect of CTCA on event rates and health-care costs.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17010
PMCID: PMC4780933
PMID: 23331845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Neurocirugia (Astur). 2013 Jul-Aug;24(4):172-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.neucir.2012.07.001. Epub 2013 Jan 16.

[Rosette-forming glioneuronal tumor of the fourth ventricle. Case report and 
literature review].

[Article in Spanish]

Zanabria Ortiz R(1), Domínguez Báez JJ, Lazo Fernández E, Sánchez Medina Y, 
Gómez Perals LF, Pérez del Rosario P.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurocirugía, Hospital Universitario Nuestra Señora de 
Candelaria, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, España. Electronic address: 
robertzanabria@hotmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: Rosette-forming glioneuronal tumor (RGNT) of the fourth ventricle 
is a rare tumor that has been recently characterized. RGNT was included as a new 
glioneuronal tumor in 2007 by the World Health Organization (WHO) in 
classification of tumors of the central nervous system. Within this group we 
found 34 documented cases. We present a new case of RGNT of the fourth ventricle 
with intratumoral posttraumatic bleeding and review the existing literature of 
this new entity.
CASE REPORT: A 30-year-old patient was admitted after suffering mild traumatic 
brain injury (TBI) had headache, diplopia and ataxia. Studies of computed 
tomography and magnetic resonance imaging revealed a tumor at the fourth 
ventricle with intralesional bleeding and areas of calcification. She was 
operated performing macroscopically complete tumor resection. Pathologic 
examination showed a rosette-forming glioneuronal tumor of the fourth ventricle.
CONCLUSIONS: The RGNT of the fourth ventricle are rare and affect young adults. 
The evidence shows that the prognosis is usually favorable but there is the 
possibility of progression and recurrence. Intratumoral hemorrhage is a very 
unusual presentation that involves risk to the patient's life. Surgical 
resection should be careful due to the location of these lesions and their 
extension into critical areas, all patients regardless of extent of resection 
achieved require a long-term monitoring of the risk of late relapse.

Copyright © 2012 Sociedad Española de Neurocirugía. Published by Elsevier 
España. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neucir.2012.07.001
PMID: 23332212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 2013 Mar;28(3):291-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2012.12.009. Epub 2013 Jan 16.

Biomechanical evaluation of different reconstructive techniques of proximal 
tibia in revision total knee arthroplasty: An in-vitro and finite element 
analysis.

Completo A(1), Duarte R, Fonseca F, Simões JA, Ramos A, Relvas C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Aveiro, 3810-193 Aveiro, 
Portugal. completo@ua.pt

BACKGROUND: Bone loss and subsequent defects are often encountered in revision 
total knee arthroplasty. In particular, when the cortical rim of proximal tibia 
is breached, the surgical decision on the reconstructive options to be taken is 
challenging due to the variety of defects and the lack of data from clinical or 
experimental studies that can support it. The purpose of this study is to assess 
how different reconstructive techniques, when applied to an identical defect and 
bone condition, can be associated to dissimilar longevity of the revision 
procedure, and the role of a stem in this longevity.
METHODS: Proximal cortex strains and implant stability were measured in ten 
reconstructive techniques replicated with synthetic tibiae. The cancellous bone 
strains under each construct were assessed with finite element models which were 
validated against experimental strains.
FINDINGS: The measured strains and stability showed that the proximal cortex is 
not immune to the different reconstructive techniques when applied to an 
identical defect. The largest cancellous strain differences between modular and 
non-modular techniques indicate a distinct risk between reconstructive 
techniques, associated to the supporting capacity of cancellous bone at long 
term.
INTERPRETATION: The main finding of the present study is the observation that 
modular augments increases, on a long term basis, the potential risk of bone 
resorption relative to the non-modular techniques. In addition, the use of a 
press-fit stem in the scope of non-modular techniques can lead to improved 
stability and load transfer, which can contribute positively to the life 
expectancy of these techniques.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiomech.2012.12.009
PMID: 23332577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. Acta Otorrinolaringol Esp. 2013 May-Jun;64(3):184-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.otorri.2012.11.004. Epub 2013 Jan 18.

Hearing loss screening tests for adults.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Becerril-Ramírez PB(1), González-Sánchez DF, Gómez-García A, Figueroa-Moreno R, 
Bravo-Escobar GA, García de la Cruz MA.

Author information:
(1)División de Otorrinolaringología y Cirugía de cabeza y cuello, Secretaría de 
salud, Hospital General Dr. Manuel Gea González, Ciudad de México, Distrito 
Federal México, México. perlita.b@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: The early detection of hearing loss has been studied widely in 
newborns due to the emerging technologies for diagnosis and treatment. There are 
detailed protocols for this goal. Nonetheless, hearing loss screening in adults 
has become more important lately with the increase of the life expectancy, an 
expected change in the Mexican population pyramid towards a rectangular shape in 
the next 50 years (with increased hearing loss prevalence) and the creation of 
public policies for social security such as the "Seguro Popular". There are no 
Mexican studies about hearing loss screening in adults. The aim of this work was 
to assess a tone emission and a questionnaire as screening tools for hearing 
loss in adults.
METHODS: A sample size of 500 individuals without otology pathology from the 
outpatient clinics at a general hospital. An otoscopy, 2 screening tests (tone 
emission and questionnaire) and tonal audiometry were performed on all subjects.
RESULTS: The questionnaire turned out to be a sensitive test but with low 
specificity, while the tone emission was less sensitive but more specific with a 
higher rate of precision. In this study, the best result was achieved by a 
combined strategy using the two tests above, with a precision of 90%.
CONCLUSIONS: The best screening strategy proposed by this study for hearing loss 
in adults is a questionnaire and tone emission test, which guarantees complete 
hearing assessment in objective and subjective manners, performed quickly and 
without special training.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otorri.2012.11.004
PMID: 23332791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Lancet. 2013 Jan 19;381(9862):177. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60069-0.

Wealth but not health in the USA.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60069-0
PMID: 23332944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Lancet. 2013 Jan 19;381(9862):256-65. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61191-X.

Global paediatric advanced life support: improving child survival in 
limited-resource settings.

Ralston ME(1), Day LT, Slusher TM, Musa NL, Doss HS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Naval Hospital, Oak Harbor, WA 98278, USA.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Apr 20;381(9875):1357.
    Lancet. 2013 Apr 20;381(9875):1357-8.
    Lancet. 2013 Apr 20;381(9875):1358.

Nearly all global mortality in children younger than 5 years (99%) occurs in 
developing countries. The leading causes of mortality in children younger than 5 
years worldwide, pneumonia and diarrhoeal illness, account for 1·396 and 0·801 
million annual deaths, respectively. Although important advances in prevention 
are being made, advanced life support management in children in developing 
countries is often incomplete because of limited resources. Existing advanced 
life support management guidelines for children in limited-resource settings are 
mainly empirical, rather than evidence-based, written for the hospital setting, 
not standardised with a systematic approach to patient assessment and 
categorisation of illness, and taught in current paediatric advanced life 
support training courses from the perspective of full-resource settings. In this 
Review, we focus on extension of higher quality emergency and critical care 
services to children in developing countries. When integrated into existing 
primary care programmes, simple inexpensive advanced life support management can 
improve child survival worldwide.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61191-X
PMID: 23332963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Jul;11(7):815-23.e1-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2012.12.029. Epub 2013 Jan 17.

Safety and efficacy of teduglutide after 52 weeks of treatment in patients with 
short bowel intestinal failure.

O'Keefe SJ(1), Jeppesen PB, Gilroy R, Pertkiewicz M, Allard JP, Messing B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, 
Pennsylvania 15213, USA. sjokeefe@pitt.edu

Comment in
    Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Jul;11(7):824-5.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Although home parenteral nutrition (PN) can save the lives of 
patients with massive bowel loss that results in short-bowel syndrome and 
intestinal failure, quality of life is impaired by PN and its complications. We 
examined the 12-month tolerability and efficacy of teduglutide to reduce PN 
dependency.
METHODS: Patients who received teduglutide (0.05 or 0.10 mg/kg/d) for 24 weeks 
in a randomized controlled trial were eligible for a 28-week double-blind 
extension study; 52 patients were given 52 weeks of the same doses of 
teduglutide. We investigated the safety, tolerability, and clinical efficacy 
(defined as a clinically meaningful ≥20% reduction in weekly PN volume from 
baseline) at week 52.
RESULTS: The most common adverse events reported included headache (35%), nausea 
(31%), and abdominal pain (25%); 7 patients withdrew because of adverse events 
(gastrointestinal disorders in 4). Both groups had progressive reduction in PN. 
At week 52, 68% of the 0.05-mg/kg/d and 52% of the 0.10-mg/kg/d dose group had a 
≥20% reduction in PN, with a reduction of 1 or more days of PN dependency in 68% 
and 37%, respectively. Four patients achieved complete independence from PN.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients with short-bowel syndrome intestinal failure, the 
efficacy of teduglutide was maintained over 52 weeks and the safety profile was 
sufficient for it to be considered for long-term use. Further studies are needed 
to determine whether these effects will translate into improved quality of life 
and reduced PN complications. ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00172185.

Copyright © 2013 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2012.12.029
PMID: 23333663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. J Mol Med (Berl). 2013 Feb;91(2):147-55. doi: 10.1007/s00109-013-1001-9.
Epub  2013 Jan 20.

Targeting the hypoxia-adenosinergic signaling pathway to improve the adoptive 
immunotherapy of cancer.

Sitkovsky M(1), Ohta A.

Author information:
(1)New England Inflammation and Tissue Protection Institute, Northeastern 
University, 113 Mugar Health Sciences Building, 360 Huntington Ave., Boston, MA 
02115, USA. m.sitkovsky@neu.edu

The recent approval by the FDA of cancer vaccines and drugs that blockade 
immunological negative regulators has further enhanced interest in promising 
approaches of the immunotherapy of cancer. However, the disappointingly short 
life extension has also underscored the need to better understand the mechanisms 
that prevent tumor rejection and survival even after the blockade of 
immunological negative regulators. Here, we describe the implications of the 
"metabolism-based" immunosuppressive mechanism, where the local tissue 
hypoxia-driven accumulation of extracellular adenosine triggers suppression via 
A2 adenosine receptors on the surface of activated immune cells. This molecular 
pathway is of critical importance in mechanisms of immunosuppression in inflamed 
and cancerous tissue microenvironments. The protection of tumors by 
tumor-generated extracellular adenosine and A2 adenosine receptors could be the 
misguided application of the normal tissue-protecting mechanism that limits 
excessive collateral damage to vital organs during the anti-pathogen immune 
response. The overview of the current state of the art regarding the 
immunosuppressive effects of extracellular adenosine is followed by a historical 
perspective of studies focused on the elucidation of the physiological negative 
regulators that protect tissues of vital organs from excessive collateral 
damage, but, as a trade-off, may also weaken the anti-pathogen effector 
functions and negate the attempts of anti-tumor immune cells to destroy 
cancerous cells.

DOI: 10.1007/s00109-013-1001-9
PMCID: PMC3576025
PMID: 23334369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Prev Sci. 2013 Oct;14(5):503-12. doi: 10.1007/s11121-012-0315-0.

Cost-effectiveness of school support for orphan girls to prevent HIV infection 
in Zimbabwe.

Miller T(1), Hallfors D, Cho H, Luseno W, Waehrer G.

Author information:
(1)Pacific Institute for Research and Evaluation, 11720 Beltsville Drive, Suite 
900, Beltsville, MD 20705, USA. miller@pire.org

This cost-effectiveness study analyzes the cost per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) gained in a randomized controlled trial that tested school support as a 
structural intervention to prevent HIV risk factors among Zimbabwe orphan girl 
adolescents. The intervention significantly reduced early marriage, increased 
years of schooling completed, and increased health-related quality of life. By 
reducing early marriage, the literature suggests the intervention reduced HIV 
infection. The intervention yielded an estimated US$1,472 in societal benefits 
and an estimated gain of 0.36 QALYs per orphan supported. It cost an estimated 
US$6/QALY gained, about 1 % of annual per capita income in Zimbabwe. That is 
well below the maximum price that the World Health Organization (WHO) Commission 
on Macroeconomics and Health recommends paying for health gains in low and 
middle income countries. About half the girls in the intervention condition were 
boarded when they reached high school. For non-boarders, the intervention's 
financial benefits exceeded its costs, yielding an estimated net cost savings of 
$502 per pupil. Without boarding, the intervention would yield net savings even 
if it were 34 % less effective in replication. Boarding was not cost-effective. 
It cost an additional $1,234 per girl boarded (over the 3 years of the study, 
discounted to present value at a 3 % discount rate) but had no effect on any of 
the outcome measures relative to girls in the treatment group who did not board. 
For girls who did not board, the average cost of approximately 3 years of school 
support was US$973.

DOI: 10.1007/s11121-012-0315-0
PMCID: PMC3708984
PMID: 23334923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Feb;31(2):125-36. doi: 10.1007/s40273-012-0020-7.

A systematic review of the cost effectiveness of herpes zoster vaccination.

Szucs TD(1), Pfeil AM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine/European Center of Pharmaceutical 
Medicine (ECPM), University of Basel, Klingelbergstrasse 61, 4056, Basel, 
Switzerland. thomas.szucs@unibas.ch

BACKGROUND: The varicella zoster virus (VZV) can cause two infections: 
chickenpox or herpes zoster (HZ). Whereas chickenpox infections are normally 
mild but common among children, HZ infections are common among elderly people 
and can give rise to post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN), a severe and painful 
complication.
OBJECTIVES: This review aimed to summarize the literature available on the cost 
effectiveness of HZ vaccination and to summarize key issues for decision makers 
to consider when deciding on the reimbursement of HZ vaccination.
METHODS: We conducted a literature search of the databases PubMed and EMBASE 
using EndNote X4 from Thomson Reuters. The following combinations of keywords 
were used: 'herpes zoster vaccine' AND 'cost(-)effectiveness' or AND 'economic 
evaluation', 'herpes zoster vaccination' AND 'cost(-)effectiveness' or AND 
'economic evaluation', 'varicella zoster vaccine' AND 'cost(-)effectiveness' or 
AND 'economic evaluation', and 'varicella zoster vaccination' AND 
'cost(-)effectiveness' or AND 'economic evaluation'.
RESULTS: A total of 11 studies were identified and included. Cost-effectiveness 
analyses of varicella zoster vaccination were excluded. The quality of the 
included studies ranged from 'moderate' to 'moderate to good' according to the 
British Medical Journal guidelines of Drummond and Jefferson and the Quality of 
Health Economic Studies (QHES) score of Ofman et al. Most studies evaluated the 
cost effectiveness of universal HZ vaccination in adults aged 50 years or 
60 years and older. Data sources and model assumptions regarding epidemiology, 
utility estimates and costs varied between studies. All studies calculated costs 
per QALY, which allows comparing costs of interventions in different diseases. 
The costs per QALY gained and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
differed between studies depending on the age at vaccination, duration of 
vaccine efficacy, cost of vaccine course and economic perspective. All but one 
of the studies concluded that most vaccination scenarios are cost effective and 
the vaccination of specific subgroups such as the older age group is most cost 
effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Model input parameters such as age at vaccination, vaccine costs, 
HZ incidence, PHN length and duration of vaccine efficacy had a great impact on 
the estimated cost effectiveness of HZ vaccination. To compare the results of 
different cost-effectiveness studies of HZ vaccination, uniform methods should 
be used and the most important input parameters used for the different models 
should be critically assessed.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-012-0020-7
PMID: 23335045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Plant Cell Physiol. 2013 Apr;54(4):634-42. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pct009. Epub
2013  Jan 17.

Robust one-tube Ω-PCR strategy accelerates precise sequence modification of 
plasmids for functional genomics.

Chen L(1), Wang F, Wang X, Liu YG.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Conservation and Utilization of Subtropical 
Agro-bioresources, College of Life Sciences, South China Agricultural 
University, Guangzhou 510642, China. lotichen@scau.edu.cn

Functional genomics requires vector construction for protein expression and 
functional characterization of target genes; therefore, a simple, flexible and 
low-cost molecular manipulation strategy will be highly advantageous for 
genomics approaches. Here, we describe a Ω-PCR strategy that enables multiple 
types of sequence modification, including precise insertion, deletion and 
substitution, in any position of a circular plasmid. Ω-PCR is based on an 
overlap extension site-directed mutagenesis technique, and is named for its 
characteristic Ω-shaped secondary structure during PCR. Ω-PCR can be performed 
either in two steps, or in one tube in combination with exonuclease I treatment. 
These strategies have wide applications for protein engineering, gene function 
analysis and in vitro gene splicing.

DOI: 10.1093/pcp/pct009
PMCID: PMC3612181
PMID: 23335613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Orv Hetil. 2013 Jan 27;154(4):136-42. doi: 10.1556/OH.2013.29527.

[Diagnostic difficulties of polycystic ovarian syndrome in adolescent girls].

[Article in Hungarian]

Ságodi L(1), Barkai L.

Author information:
(1)Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén Megyei Kórház és Egyetemi Oktató Kórház Csecsemő- és 
Gyermekosztály Miskolc Pf. 188 3501 Miskolci Egyetem, Egészségügyi Kar Preventív 
Egészségtudományi Tanszék Miskolc. sagodilaszlo@gmail.com

Polycystic ovary syndrome is a heterogeneous disorder characterized by chronic 
ovulatory dysfunction and hyperandrogenism. It occurs in 6-8% of the female 
population in the reproductive age. The syndrome may be associated with various 
metabolic disorders which may impair the quality of life and life expectancy of 
patients. The diagnosis in adults is usually established by the presence of 
three criteria. Polycystic ovary syndrome can be also identified in adolescent 
girls. Although the clinical, hormonal and metabolic features are similar to 
those found in adult women, it may be difficult to distinguish normal 
adolescents from those with polycystic ovary syndrome. Irregular menstruation, 
anovulatory cycles, and acne are not uncommon in adolescents, and polycystic 
ovary syndrome may mimic physiological anovulation in adolescents. There is a 
high probability of polycystic ovary syndrome if anovulatory cycles persist for 
more than 2 years. The diagnosis of polycystic ovary syndrome in adolescents may 
require a unique set of criteria, however, there are no generally accepted 
recommendations for the diagnostic work-up. The authors propose that 
hyperandrogenemia is often the most reliable finding in this age group, and it 
may be prudent to define adolescent polycystic ovary syndrome according to the 
Rotterdam consensus criteria. Obesity in adolescent girls may increase the 
severity of symptoms of polycystic ovary syndrome and this underlines the 
importance of early diagnosis and treatment.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2013.29527
PMID: 23335723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. Glob Health Action. 2013 Jan 17;6:1-9. doi: 10.3402/gha.v6i0.18860.

Survival probability and prognostic factors for breast cancer patients in 
Vietnam.

Lan NH(1), Laohasiriwong W, Stewart JF.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School, Faculty of Public Health, Khon Kaen University, Khon Kaen, 
Thailand.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is becoming a public health problem in Vietnam. The 
mortality to incidence ratio of the disease was ranked second among the most 
common cancers in women. This study estimates the survival probability at 1, 3, 
and 5 years following diagnosis and determines prognostic factors for breast 
cancer mortality in Vietnam.
METHODS: A survival analysis was conducted based on retrospective data from Hue 
Central Hospital and the Cancer Registry in Ho Chi Minh City. Using the 
Kaplan-Meier method, the survival probability of patients with breast cancer was 
estimated at 1, 3, and 5 years following diagnosis. The covariates among 
prognostic factors for survival time were studied using an extended Cox 
proportion hazards model, including time-dependent predictors.
RESULTS: Overall survival rates at 1, 3, and 5 years following diagnosis were 
0.94, 0.83 and 0.74 respectively. Marital status, education level, stage at 
diagnosis, and hormone therapy were prognostic factors for mortality. For the 
stage at diagnosis, the relation to the risk of death for breast cancer was 1.32 
(95% CI, 1.22-1.41). Married women faced a risk of death nearly 1.59 times 
higher than unmarried women (95% CI, 1.09-2.33). Women with higher levels of 
education and who received hormone therapy had approximately 10% (hazard ratio 
[HR]: 0.92; 95% CI, 0.89-0.96) and 80% (HR: 0.22; 95% CI, 0.12-0.41) risk 
reduction of death respectively, compared with those classified as illiterate 
and those without hormone therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: The 5-year survival probability of breast cancer was lower in 
Vietnam than in countries with similar distributions of the stage at diagnosis. 
Screening programs and related support policies should be developed to increase 
the life expectancy of women with breast cancer in Vietnam.

DOI: 10.3402/gha.v6i0.18860
PMCID: PMC3549066
PMID: 23336619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. Int J Psychol. 1989 Jan;24(1-5):195-214. doi:
10.1080/00207594.1989.10600042.

Development of Orientation to the Future during Early Adolescence: A Four-Year 
Longitudinal Study and Two Cross-Sectional Comparisons.

Nurmi JE(1).

Author information:
(1)a University of Helsinki , Finland.

In 1982, fifty-seven 11-year-old and forty-eight 15-year-old adolescents were 
interviewed about their hopes and fears for the future. Similarly, in 1987, 
fifty-seven 11-year-old and fifty-six 15-year-old adolescents were interviewed. 
The content and extension of each hope and fear as well as the levels of 
planning, realization, internality, probability estimation and overall emotional 
evaluation were estimated from the answers. As expected, adolescents' hopes 
concerned major developmental tasks, i.e. occupation, education, family and 
property related topics. Both 11- and 15-year-olds extended their thinking to 
the same stage of their future life, about the age of twenty. A comparison of 
extension according to hope content showed that adolescents' orientation to the 
future reflected the 'cultural prototype' of expected life-span development. 
Levels of planning, realization and knowledge concerning hopes increased with 
age as did internality and optimism concerning the future, especially among 
boys.

DOI: 10.1080/00207594.1989.10600042
PMID: 23336772


108. Value Health. 2013 Jan-Feb;16(1):23-30. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.08.2209.
Epub  2012 Nov 30.

Cost-effectiveness of interventions for reducing road traffic injuries related 
to driving under the influence of alcohol.

Ditsuwan V(1), Lennert Veerman J, Bertram M, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Sports Science, Thaksin University, Phatthalung 
Province, Thailand. vallop.ditsuwan@uqconnect.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of interventions to reduce road 
traffic injuries caused by driving under the influence of alcohol in Thailand.
METHODS: We used generalized cost-effectiveness analysis and included costs from 
a health sector perspective. The model considered road traffic crash victims who 
were injured, disabled, or died. We obtained proportions of alcohol-related 
crashes from the Thai Injury Surveillance system. Intervention effectiveness was 
derived from published reviews and a study in one province of Thailand. Random 
breath testing, selective breath testing, and mass media campaigns, both current 
and intervention scenarios, were compared with a "do-nothing" scenario. We 
calculated intervention costs and cost offsets of prevented treatment costs in 
2004 Thai baht (US $1 = 41 baht) and measured benefits in terms of 
disability-adjusted life-years averted. Interventions with incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios below 110,000 Thai baht (1×gross domestic product per 
capita) per disability-adjusted life-year (US $2,680) were considered very 
cost-effective.
RESULTS: Compared with doing nothing, mass media campaigns, random breath 
testing, and selective breath testing are all cost saving. When averted 
treatment costs are ignored and only intervention costs are included, all three 
interventions are very cost-effective, with incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios of 10,300, 14,300 and 13,000 baht/disability-adjusted life-year, 
respectively. The current mix of mass media campaigns and sobriety checkpoints 
is therefore also cost-effective, but underinvestment in checkpoints limits its 
overall effect.
CONCLUSIONS: A greater intensity of conducting sobriety checkpoints in Thailand 
is recommended to complement the investment in mass media campaigns. Together 
these interventions have the potential to reduce the burden of alcohol-related 
road traffic injuries by 24%.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.08.2209
PMID: 23337212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Value Health. 2013 Jan-Feb;16(1):46-56. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.09.005.

Cost-effectiveness of gene-expression profiling for tumor-site origin.

Hornberger J(1), Degtiar I, Gutierrez H, Shewade A, Henner WD, Becker S, 
Varadhachary G, Raab S.

Author information:
(1)Cedar Associates LLC, Menlo Park, CA 94025, USA. ujch@stanford.edu

Erratum in
    Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):452. Varadachary, Gauri [corrected to 
Varadhachary, Gauri].

OBJECTIVES: Gene-expression profiling (GEP) reliably supplements traditional 
clinicopathological information on the tissue of origin (TOO) in metastatic or 
poorly differentiated cancer. A cost-effectiveness analysis of GEP TOO testing 
versus usual care was conducted from a US third-party payer perspective.
METHODS: Data on recommendation changes for chemotherapy, surgery, radiation 
therapy, blood tests, imaging investigations, and hospice care were obtained 
from a retrospective, observational study of patients whose physicians received 
GEP TOO test results. The effects of chemotherapy recommendation changes on 
survival were based on the results of trials cited in National Comprehensive 
Cancer Network and UpToDate guidelines. Drug and administration costs were based 
on average doses reported in National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines. 
Other unit costs came from Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services fee 
schedules. Quality-of-life weights were obtained from literature. Bootstrap 
analysis estimated sample variability; probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
addressed parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: Chemotherapy regimen recommendations consistent with guidelines for 
final tumor-site diagnoses increased significantly from 42% to 65% (net 
difference 23%; P<0.001). Projected overall survival increased from 15.9 to 19.5 
months (mean difference 3.6 months; two-sided 95% confidence interval [CI] 
3.2-3.9). The average increase in quality-adjusted life-months was 2.7 months 
(95% CI 1.5-4.3), and average third-party payer costs per patient increased by 
$10,360 (95% CI $2,982-$19,192). The cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained 
was $46,858 (95% CI $13,351-$104,269).
CONCLUSIONS: GEP TOO testing significantly altered clinical practice patterns 
and is projected to increase overall survival, quality-adjusted life-years, and 
costs, resulting in an expected cost per quality-adjusted life-year of less than 
$50,000.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.09.005
PMID: 23337215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Value Health. 2013 Jan-Feb;16(1):66-75. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.09.006.

A quantitative benefit-risk analysis of isoniazid for treatment of latent 
tuberculosis infection using incremental benefit framework.

Sadatsafavi M(1), Marra C, Marra F, Moran O, FitzGerald JM, Lynd L.

Author information:
(1)Collaboration for Outcome Research and Evaluation, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.

BACKGROUND: We undertook a quantitative benefit-risk analysis of a targeted 
isoniazid (INH) therapy for latent tuberculosis (TB) infection for different 
groups of contacts of active TB cases.
METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model to compare the treatment of 
latent TB infection in subgroups of contacts to no treatment over a 6-year time 
horizon in a Canadian setting. Contacts were stratified into 32 groups on the 
basis of five binary variables: type of contact (close or casual), tuberculin 
skin test (TST) results (positive or negative at 5 mm cutoff), Bacillus 
Calmette-Guérin vaccination status, place of birth (foreign- or Canadian-born), 
and age group (cutoff 35 years). Risk of TB reactivation was calculated for each 
subgroup from a longitudinal registry of contacts, adjusted for several 
potential confounders and comorbid conditions. We calculated the 
quality-adjusted life-years gained because of delayed or prevention of active TB 
via treatment of latent TB infection versus quality-adjusted life-years lost 
because of the adverse events to INH.
RESULTS: A targeted policy based on adopting INH therapy only in subgroups with 
positive expected incremental net health benefit resulted in a different 
treatment decision than the current guidelines in five subgroups comprising 3.9% 
of the contacts. Namely, the targeted policy comprised no INH therapy in casual 
contacts with a positive vaccination history even with a positive TST result and 
INH therapy in foreign-born close contacts younger than 35 years even with a 
negative TST result.
CONCLUSIONS: From a benefit-risk viewpoint, INH treatment of contacts should be 
tailored on the basis of risk assessment algorithms that consider a range of 
factors at the time of screening.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.09.006
PMID: 23337217 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Value Health. 2013 Jan-Feb;16(1):114-23. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.08.2211.

Consumer preferences for health and nonhealth outcomes of health promotion: 
results from a discrete choice experiment.

Alayli-Goebbels AF(1), Dellaert BG, Knox SA, Ament AJ, Lakerveld J, Bot SD, 
Nijpels G, Severens JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, School for Public Health and Primary 
Care, Maastricht University, Caphri, The Netherlands. 
a.goebbels@maastrichtuniversity.nl

OBJECTIVE: Health promotion (HP) interventions have outcomes that go beyond 
health. Such broader nonhealth outcomes are usually neglected in economic 
evaluation studies. To allow for their consideration, insights are needed into 
the types of nonhealth outcomes that HP interventions produce and their relative 
importance compared with health outcomes. This study explored consumer 
preferences for health and nonhealth outcomes of HP in the context of lifestyle 
behavior change.
METHODS: A discrete choice experiment was conducted among participants in a 
lifestyle intervention (n = 132) and controls (n = 141). Respondents made 16 
binary choices between situations that can be experienced after lifestyle 
behavior change. The situations were described by 10 attributes: future health 
state value, start point of future health state, life expectancy, clothing size 
above ideal, days with sufficient relaxation, endurance, experienced control 
over lifestyle choices, lifestyle improvement of partner and/or children, 
monetary cost per month, and time cost per week.
RESULTS: With the exception of "time cost per week" and "start point of future 
health state," all attributes significantly determined consumer choices. Thus, 
both health and nonhealth outcomes affected consumer choice. Marginal rates of 
substitution between the price attribute and the other attributes revealed that 
the attributes "endurance," "days with sufficient relaxation," and "future 
health state value" had the greatest impact on consumer choices. The "life 
expectancy" attribute had a relatively low impact and for increases of less than 
3 years, respondents were not willing to trade.
CONCLUSIONS: Health outcomes and nonhealth outcomes of lifestyle behavior change 
were both important to consumers in this study. Decision makers should respond 
to consumer preferences and consider nonhealth outcomes when deciding about HP 
interventions.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.08.2211
PMID: 23337222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Value Health. 2013 Jan-Feb;16(1):140-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.08.2208.
Epub  2012 Nov 30.

The effects of diabetes, hypertension, asthma, heart disease, and stroke on 
quality-adjusted life expectancy.

Jia H(1), Zack MM, Thompson WW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Mailman School of Public Health and School of 
Nursing, Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. hj2198@columbia.edu

OBJECTIVE: Quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) is a summary measure that 
combines mortality and health-related quality of life across different stages of 
life. The objective of this study was to estimate QALE loss due to five chronic 
diseases-diabetes mellitus, hypertension, asthma, heart disease, and stroke.
METHODS: Health-related quality of life scores were from the 1993-2009 
Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System. Using age-specific deaths from the 
Compressed Mortality File, this study constructed life tables to calculate 
losses in life expectancy and QALE due to each of the five diseases from 1993 
through 2009 and for 50 US states and the District of Columbia.
RESULTS: In 2009, the individual-level QALE loss for diabetic people, compared 
with nondiabetic people, was 11.1 years; for those with hypertension, 6.3 years; 
for those with asthma, 7.0 years; for those with heart disease, 10.3 years; and 
for those with stroke, 12.4 years. At the population level, diabetes, 
hypertension, asthma, heart disease, and stroke contributed 1.9, 2.2, 0.8, 1.2, 
and 0.8 years of population QALE loss at age 18 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Persons with each of the five diseases had significantly lower life 
expectancy and QALE. Because the prevalence of diabetes and hypertension has 
increased significantly in the United States in the last two decades, the 
burdens of these two conditions, measured by population QALE losses, had 
increased 83% and 29% from 1993 to 2009, respectively. Also, by examining 
changes in population QALE loss at different ages, policymakers can identify age 
groups most affected by particular diseases and develop the most cost-effective 
interventions by focusing on these groups.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.08.2208
PMCID: PMC4590983
PMID: 23337225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Value Health. 2013 Jan-Feb;16(1):202-10. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.10.010.

Mapping to obtain EQ-5D utility values for use in NICE health technology 
assessments.

Longworth L(1), Rowen D.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK. 
Louise.longworth@brunel.ac.uk

Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) are widely used as an outcome for the 
economic evaluation of health interventions. However, preference-based measures 
used to obtain health-related utility values to produce QALY estimates are not 
always included in key clinical studies. Furthermore, organizations responsible 
for reviewing or producing health technology assessments (HTAs) may have 
preferred instruments for obtaining utility estimates for QALY calculations. 
Where data using a preference-based measure or the preferred instrument have not 
been collected, it may be possible to "map" or "crosswalk" from other measures 
of health outcomes. The aims of this study were 1) to provide an overview of how 
mapping is currently used as reported in the published literature and in an HTA 
policy-making context, specifically at the National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom, and 2) to comment on best current 
practice on the use of mapping for HTA more generally. The review of the 
National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence guidance found that 
mapping has been used since first established but that reporting of the models 
used to map has been poor. Recommendations for mapping in HTA include an 
explicit consideration of the generalizability of the mapping function to the 
target sample, reporting of standard econometric and statistical tests including 
the degree of error in the mapping model across subsets of the range of utility 
values, and validation of the model(s). Mapping can provide a route for linking 
outcomes data collected in a trial or observational study to the specific 
preferred instrument for obtaining utility values. In most cases, however, it is 
still advantageous to directly collect data by using the preferred utility-based 
instrument and mapping should usually be viewed as a "second-best" solution.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.10.010
PMID: 23337232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Public Health. 2013 Mar;127(3):292-4. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.12.003. Epub
2013  Jan 18.

Response to letter from G. McCartney, C. Collins, D. Walsh, G.D. Batty.

McCartney G, Collins C, Walsh D, Batty GD.

Comment on
    Public Health. 2012 Jun;126(6):459-70.
    Public Health. 2013 Mar;127(3):290-1.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.12.003
PMID: 23337634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
