Stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) is a novel approach involving high-dose 
radiotherapy in 5 fractions. This analysis compared their cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to delineate the health states after 
treatment with IMRT and SBRT. Disease, treatment, and toxicity data were 
extracted from the literature. Costs included both robotic (R-SBRT) and 
nonrobotic (NR-SBRT) reimbursement. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses (PSA) were performed over a wide range of potential parameters.
RESULTS: The quality-adjusted life expectancy after IMRT was slightly higher 
than after SBRT, because we assumed worse toxicity after SBRT. However, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) for IMRT over R-SBRT and NR-SBRT 
were $285,000 and $591,100/quality-adjusted life year (QALY), respectively. On 
sensitivity analysis, SBRT was almost always the cost-effective therapy, in 
which the ICER for IMRT was generally over $100,000/QALY. Reimbursement for 
R-SBRT versus NR-SBRT significantly influenced its ICER. Treatment efficacy, 
rectal toxicity and impotence, and the potential for unforeseen SBRT late 
effects were the most critical parameters in the model; when including these 
uncertain parameters in a PSA, SBRT was still most likely to be cost-effective 
at a willingness to pay of $100,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: SBRT clearly contained more value than IMRT for external-beam 
treatment. Given the increasing prevalence of the disease and its superb 
convenience, intensive research should be performed on this novel modality, 
including the marginal benefit and cost of robotic treatment.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0b013e31827a7d2a
PMID: 23275277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Dev Psychol. 2013 Oct;49(10):1833-47. doi: 10.1037/a0031041. Epub 2012 Dec
31.

Level and change in perceived control predict 19-year mortality: findings from 
the Americans' changing lives study.

Infurna FJ(1), Ram N, Gerstorf D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Development and Family Studies, Pennsylvania State 
University.

Perceived control plays an important role for health across adulthood and old 
age. However, little is known about the factors that account for such 
associations and whether changes in control (or control trajectory) uniquely 
predict major health outcomes over and above mean levels of control. Using data 
from the nationwide Americans' Changing Lives Study (House et al., 1990; N = 
2,840, M age at T2: 56.32 years, range: 28-99, 64% women), we examined the 
extent to which mean levels and rates of change in perceived control over 16 
years predict all-cause mortality over a 19-year follow-up period. Shared 
growth-survival models revealed that higher levels of and more positive changes 
in perceived control were associated with longer survival times, independent of 
sociodemographic correlates. We found that level effects of control were 
accounted for by well-being and health factors, whereas the change effects of 
control were not. Analyses also indicated an age-differential pattern, with the 
predictive effects of both levels and trajectories of control declining in old 
age. We discuss possible pathways through which perceived control operates to 
facilitate key health outcomes and consider how their malleability and 
effectiveness may change with increasing age.

DOI: 10.1037/a0031041
PMID: 23276128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Maturitas. 2013 Feb;74(2):137-47. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2012.11.013. Epub
 2012 Dec 28.

Health at advanced age: social inequality and other factors potentially 
impacting longevity in nine high-income countries.

Granados JA(1).

Author information:
(1)SEH/SRC, Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor MI, 
United States. jatapia@umich.edu

This article surveys the evolution of health at advanced age in nine high-income 
countries over the last three decades, and the variables that might explain that 
evolution. Life expectancy at age 65 for males and females is used as summary 
indicator to conceptualize "health at advanced age." A comparison of the nine 
countries - Canada, Denmark, France, Japan, Spain, Sweden, Switzerland, the 
United Kingdom, and the United States - reveals excellent health performance for 
Japan, which has the greatest proportion of elderly people in the population and 
also the best health indicators for both males and females; the United States 
and Denmark perform poorly. Of all nine countries, the United States has the 
youngest population, the highest income per capita, and the greatest expenditure 
on health care, but also the highest levels of income inequality and relative 
poverty, and lacked universal health care coverage during the study period. 
Experts have considered that these three factors have probably contributed to 
the poor progress in the health of the elderly in the United States in recent 
decades. Tobacco consumption appears to be a key influence on the health of the 
elderly and probably explains to a large extent - with a lag of several decades 
- the differential evolution of health in these countries.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2012.11.013
PMID: 23276601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Geriatr Nurs. 2013 Mar-Apr;34(2):105-11. doi:
10.1016/j.gerinurse.2012.10.002.  Epub 2012 Dec 28.

Justifying continuous sedation until death: a focus group study in nursing homes 
in Flanders, Belgium.

Rys S(1), Deschepper R, Deliens L, Mortier F, Bilsen J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine and Pharmacy, Vrije 
Universiteit Brussel, Brussels, Belgium. samrys@vub.ac.be

Continuous Sedation until Death (CSD), the act of reducing or removing the 
consciousness of an incurably ill patient until death, has become a common 
practice in nursing homes in Flanders (Belgium). Quantitative research has 
suggested that CSD is not always properly applied. This qualitative study aims 
to explore and describe the circumstances under which nursing home clinicians 
consider CSD to be justified. Six focus groups were conducted including 10 
physicians, 24 nurses, and 14 care assistants working in either Catholic or 
non-Catholic nursing homes of varying size. Refractory suffering, limited life 
expectancy and respecting patient autonomy are considered essential elements in 
deciding for CSD. However, multiple factors complicate the care of nursing home 
residents at the end of life, and often hinder clinicians from putting these 
elements into practice. Nursing home clinicians may benefit from more 
information and instruction about managing CSD in the complex care situations 
which typically occur in nursing homes.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gerinurse.2012.10.002
PMID: 23276643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. AIDS. 2013 May 15;27(8):1245-51. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32835e163d.

Currently available medications in resource-rich settings may not be sufficient 
for lifelong treatment of HIV.

Jansson J(1), Wilson DP, Carr A, Petoumenos K, Boyd MA.

Author information:
(1)The Kirby Institute, University of New South Wales, Sydney NSW 2052, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has greatly improved the 
life expectancy of people living with HIV (PLHIV). Our study aims to project the 
life expectancy of PLHIV in a resource-rich setting in the context of the 
currently available antiretroviral treatments.
METHODS: Patient antiretroviral treatment data were sourced from an 
observational cohort of 3434 predominantly male (94.2%) PLHIV in Australia over 
the period 1997-2010. These data were analyzed in a computer simulation model to 
calculate the distribution of time until exhaustion of all treatment options and 
expected effect on mortality. Standardized mortality ratios were used to 
simulate expected survival before and after treatment exhaustion.
RESULTS: We estimated that the median time until exhaustion of currently 
available treatment options is 45.5 years [interquartile range (IQR) 34.0-61.0 
years]. However, 10% of PLHIV are expected to exhaust all currently available 
cART options after just 25.6 years. PLHIV who start currently available cART 
regimens at age 20 years are expected to live to a median age of 67.4 (IQR 
53.2-77.7) years. This is a substantial improvement on no cART [27.7 (IQR 
23.8-32.0) years] but is still substantially less than the median general 
population mortality age [82.2 (IQR 74.0-87.8) years]. The life expectancy gap 
between PLHIV and the general population is greatest for those infected at 
younger ages.
CONCLUSION: As treatment options are exhausted, a substantial difference in life 
expectancy between PLHIV and the general population could be expected even in 
resource-rich settings, particularly for people who acquire HIV at a younger age 
or who are currently highly treatment experienced.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e32835e163d
PMCID: PMC3740079
PMID: 23276809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest None declared.


965. Circulation. 2013 Feb 19;127(7):820-31. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.112.147488.  Epub 2012 Dec 31.

Cost-effectiveness of percutaneous coronary intervention with drug eluting 
stents versus bypass surgery for patients with diabetes mellitus and multivessel 
coronary artery disease: results from the FREEDOM trial.

Magnuson EA(1), Farkouh ME, Fuster V, Wang K, Vilain K, Li H, Appelwick J, 
Muratov V, Sleeper LA, Boineau R, Abdallah M, Cohen DJ; FREEDOM Trial 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, Kansas City, MO 64111, USA.

Comment in
    Circulation. 2013 Feb 19;127(7):764-5.

BACKGROUND: Studies from the balloon angioplasty and bare metal stent eras have 
demonstrated that coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) is cost-effective 
compared with percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) for patients undergoing 
multivessel coronary revascularization-particularly among patients with complex 
coronary artery disease or diabetes mellitus. Whether these results apply in the 
drug-eluting stent (DES) era is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between 2005 and 2010, 1900 patients with diabetes mellitus 
and multivessel coronary artery disease were randomized to PCI with DES 
(DES-PCI; n=953) or CABG (n=947). Costs were assessed from the perspective of 
the U.S. health care system. Health state utilities were assessed using the 
EuroQOL 5 dimension 3 level questionnaire. A patient-level microsimulation model 
based on U.S. life-tables and in-trial results was used to estimate lifetime 
cost-effectiveness. Although initial procedural costs were lower for CABG, total 
costs for the index hospitalization were $8622 higher per patient. Over the next 
5 years, follow-up costs were higher with PCI, owing to more frequent repeat 
revascularization and higher outpatient medication costs. Nonetheless, 
cumulative 5-year costs remained $3641 higher per patient with CABG. Although 
there were only modest gains in survival with CABG during the trial period, when 
the in-trial results were extended to a lifetime horizon, CABG was projected to 
be economically attractive relative to DES-PCI, with substantial gains in both 
life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios <$10 000 per life-year or quality-adjusted life-year 
gained across a broad range of assumptions regarding the effect of CABG on 
post-trial survival and costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite higher initial costs, CABG is a highly cost-effective 
revascularization strategy compared with DES-PCI for patients with diabetes 
mellitus and multivessel coronary artery disease.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: URL: http://www.clinical-trials.gov. Unique 
identifier: NCT00086450.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.112.147488
PMCID: PMC3603704
PMID: 23277307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: Dr. Magnuson 
has received grant support from Abbott Vascular, Astra Zeneca, Boston 
Scientific, Daiichi Sankyo, Edwards Lifesciences, Eli Lilly and Medtronic. Dr. 
Farkouh has received grant support from Eli Lilly and other research support 
from Boston Scientific, Bristol-Myers Squibb, Cordis, Eli Lilly and 
Sanofi-Aventis. Dr Cohen has received grant support from Abbott Vascular, Astra 
Zeneca, Biomet, Boston Scientific, Edwards Lifesciences, Eli Lilly, Jannsen 
Pharmaceuticals and Medtronic, and consulting fees from Abbott Vascular, Astra 
Zeneca, Eli Lilly and Medtronic.


966. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2012;7:825-32. doi: 10.2147/COPD.S37447.
Epub  2012 Dec 20.

Vulnerability of patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease according 
to gender in China.

Lou P(1), Zhu Y, Chen P, Zhang P, Yu J, Zhang N, Zhang L, Wu H, Zhao J, Chen N.

Author information:
(1)Xuzhou Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Affiliated Hospital of 
Xuzhou Medical College, Xuzhou City, Jiangsu Province, Xuzhou, China. 
loupeian2004@yahoo.com.cn

BACKGROUND: Little information is available regarding the vulnerability of 
patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) in China. We aimed to 
assess this according to patient gender.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted in the rural area of Xuzhou in 
China. We interviewed and administered questionnaires to 2825 male and 2825 
female patients with COPD and subjected the data generated to statistical 
analysis. We compared differences between proportions of male and female 
patients using the χ(2) test.
RESULTS: The rate of current smoking in men was 30.1%, whereas that in women was 
10.9%, and 31.5% of men had a history of using biomass fuel compared with 75.3% 
of women. Further, 26.0% of the male patients and 16.4% of the female patients 
did not take theophylline regularly when their disease was stable. During acute 
exacerbations, 65.8% of the male patients and 39.7% of the female patients took 
theophylline or similar drugs. The average potential shortening of life 
expectancy was 1.76 years for men and 1.18 years for women. The average indirect 
economic burden was 11158.4 yuan for men and 7481.2 yuan for women. The quality 
of life was worse in female patients than in male patients.
CONCLUSION: We found that patients with COPD were vulnerable and that factors 
determining vulnerability were different for men than for women. Therefore, we 
recommend adopting different measures for men and women when attempting to 
prevent, control, and treat COPD, rehabilitate these patients, and improve their 
quality of life.

DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S37447
PMCID: PMC3532020
PMID: 23277738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Oral Implantol (Rome). 2011 Jul;4(3-4):23-33. Epub 2012 Apr 15.

Rationale for tilted implants: FEA considerations and clinical reports.

DE Vico G(1), Bonino M, Spinelli D, Schiavetti R, Sannino G, Pozzi A, Ottria L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Odontostomatologic Science, U.O.C. of Odontostomatologic 
Clinic, University of Rome "Tor Vergata", Rome, Italy.

The prevalence of the elderly population, as well as life expectancy, increased 
in the final decades of the 20th century, as described in the World Health 
Organization 2004 Annual Report. The edentulous condition therefore has a 
negative impact on the oral health-related quality of life. Patients wearing 
complete dentures for many years infact, and especially in the mandible, are 
often unsatisfied because of the instability of the prosthesis during speaking 
and eating. To date dental implant treatment is well documented as a predictable 
treatment for partial or complete edentulism. On the other hand the 
rehabilitation of atrophied edentulous arches with endosseous implants (> 10 mm) 
in the posterior regions is often associated with anatomic problems such as bone 
resorption, poor bone quality, mandibular canal, and the presence of maxillary 
sinuses. Different procedures have been proposed to overcome these anatomic 
limitations. The use of tilted implants parallel to the anterior wall of the 
maxillary sinus or the mental foramen/inferior alveolar nerve has been proposed 
as a conservative solution for the treatment of the atrophic edentulous maxilla. 
Aim of this study was to describe, through a detailed literature review, the 
clinical and biomechanical rationale for tilting implants and to evaluate the 
long-term prognosis of immediately loaded full fixed prostheses for the 
treatment of edentulous patients (#35) with extreme bone atrophy rehabilited 
with both axial (#70) and tilted (#70) implants from 2008 to 2010. The results 
of the present study would suggest that this new surgical technique may reduce 
patient morbidity and extend the indications for immediate loading full fixed 
rehabilitations. This improves the predictability of treatment goal, allows for 
a better risk management, and provides more individual information for the 
patient. These are the most important aspects of this technology, which may 
contribute to establish higher-quality standards in implantology.

La prevalenza della popolazione anziana, così come l’aspet-tativa di vita, è 
aumentata negli ultimi decenni del XX secolo, così come descritto dal Rapporto 
Annuale 2004 della Organizzazione Mondiale della Sanità. La condizione di 
edentulia correlata ha quindi un impatto negativo sulla salute orale in 
relazione alla qualità della vita. Infatti i pazienti portatori di protesi 
totali da molti anni, soprattutto quelle mandibolari, sono spesso insoddisfatti 
a causa della instabilità della protesi durante importanti funzioni quali la 
fonazione e la masticazione. A tuttoggi la riabilitazione implantare per il 
trattamento dell’ edentulia parziale o totale è stata chiaramente documentata 
come predicibile. D’altra parte la riabilitazione delle arcate edentule 
atrofiche mediante impianti endossei (> 10 mm) nelle regioni posteriori è spesso 
associata a problemi anatomici come appunto: il riassorbimento osseo, la scarsa 
qualità dell’osso, il canale mandibolare, e la presenza di seni mascellari. 
Diverse procedure sono state proposte per superare questi limiti anatomici. 
L’uso di impianti paralleli inclinati alla parete anteriore del seno mascellare 
o ai forame mentoniero/nervo alveolare inferiore è stata proposta come una 
soluzione conservativa per il trattamento del mascellare edentulo atrofico. 
Scopo di questo studio è stato quello di descrivere, attraverso una revisione 
dettagliata della letteratura, le ragioni cliniche e biomeccaniche per 
l’inclinazione degli impianti e di valutare la prognosi a lungo termine di 
protesi a carico immediato per il trattamento di pazienti edentuli (#35) con 
atrofia ossea estrema riabilitati con impianti sia assiali (#70) che inclinati 
(#70) dal 2008 al 2010. I risultati del presente studio suggeriscono che questa 
nuova tecnica chirurgica è in grado di ridurre la morbilità del paziente e di 
estendere le indicazioni al carico immediato nelle riabilitazioni protesiche 
fisse totali. Tutto questo migliora la prevedibilità dell’obiettivo terapeutico, 
permette una migliore gestione del rischio, e fornisce informazioni più 
individuali per il paziente. Questi sono gli aspetti più importanti di questa 
tecnologia, che può contribuire a stabilire standard di più alta qualità in 
implantologia.

PMCID: PMC3530969
PMID: 23277870


968. J Oral Pathol Med. 2013 Jul;42(6):443-9. doi: 10.1111/jop.12032. Epub 2012
Dec  20.

HPV oral lesions in HIV-infected patients: the impact of long-term HAART.

Anaya-Saavedra G(1), Flores-Moreno B, García-Carrancá A, Irigoyen-Camacho E, 
Guido-Jiménez M, Ramírez-Amador V.

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autónoma Metropolitana-Xochimilco, Ciudad de México, Mexico.

BACKGROUND: Since the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy 
(HAART), an increase in the frequency of human papillomavirus-associated oral 
lesions (HPV-OL) has been observed. Thus, the aim of this study was to determine 
the prevalence and factors associated with HPV-OL in Mexican HIV-infected 
patients, as well as its genotyping, in the HAART era.
METHODS: In a cross-sectional study developed at an HIV/AIDS referral center in 
Mexico City, HIV-infected patients were consecutively included from 2004 to 
2011. An oral exam was performed; lymphocyte CD4(+) count, HIV-viral load, 
CDC-stage, and HAART use were recorded. HPV-OL samples were taken for routine 
histopathological analysis (H-E) and HPV-DNA amplification/sequencing. Logistic 
regression models were performed and the interactions tested using the STATA 
software.
RESULTS: Among 787 HIV patients, 55 (6.9%) showed HPV-OL. HPV-OLs were 
independently associated with age (≥40 years) and with a longer time of HAART 
use (≥12 months). The most frequent lesion was squamous cell papilloma in 22 
(40%) cases, followed by multifocal epithelial hyperplasia in 15 (27.3%) cases. 
Labial mucosa was the most common site involved (56.4%). Of the sequences 
obtained, 65.4% corresponded to low risk and 11.5% to high risk. Mixed high- and 
low-risk infection were identified in 7.7% of the cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Human papillomavirus-associated oral lesions were associated with 
older age and longer HAART use. All lesions were benign in nature and most of 
the HPV sequences corresponded to low-risk types. The rise of HPV-OLs in HIV 
patients on HAART may be related with the longer life expectancy of individuals 
with an impaired immune system rather than a direct effect of HAART.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jop.12032
PMID: 23278731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Acta Neurol Scand. 2013 May;127(5):351-9. doi: 10.1111/ane.12065. Epub 2012
Dec  31.

Cost-effectiveness of two endovascular treatment strategies vs intravenous 
thrombolysis.

Bouvy JC(1), Fransen PS, Baeten SA, Koopmanschap MA, Niessen LW, Dippel DW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Clinical Pharmacology, Utrecht Institute 
of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Utrecht University, The Netherlands. 
bouvy@bmg.eur.nl

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of endovascular treatment against 
intravenous thrombolysis (IVT) when varying assumptions concerning its 
effectiveness.
METHODS: We developed a health economic model including a hypothetical 
population consisting of patients with ischemic stroke, admitted within 4.5 h 
from onset, without contraindications for IVT or intra-arterial treatment (IAT). 
A decision tree and life table were used to assess 6-month and lifetime costs 
(in Euros) and effects in quality-adjusted life years treatment with IVT alone, 
IAT alone, and IVT followed by IAT if the patient did not respond to treatment. 
Several analyses were performed to explore the impact of considerable 
uncertainty concerning the clinical effectiveness of endovascular treatment.
RESULTS: Probabilistic sensitivity analysis demonstrated a 54% probability of 
positive incremental lifetime effectiveness of IVT-IAT vs IVT alone. Sensitivity 
analyses showed significant variation in outcomes and cost-effectiveness of the 
included treatment strategies at different model assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Acceptable cost-effectiveness of IVT-IAT compared to IVT will only 
be possible if recanalization rates are sufficiently high (>50%), treatment 
costs of IVT-IAT do not increase, and complication rates remain similar to those 
reported in the few randomized studies published to date. Large randomized 
studies are needed to reduce the uncertainty concerning the effects of 
endovascular treatment.

© 2012 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/ane.12065
PMID: 23278859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Eur J Neurol. 2013 May;20(5):773-80. doi: 10.1111/ene.12062. Epub 2012 Dec
24.

Cost-effectiveness of onabotulinumtoxinA for the treatment of wrist and hand 
disability due to upper-limb post-stroke spasticity in Scotland.

Doan QV(1), Gillard P, Brashear A, Halperin M, Hayward E, Varon S, Lu ZJ.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Insights, Inc, Westlake Village, CA 91362, USA. quan@outins.com

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The objective was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
treating upper-limb post-stroke spasticity (ULPSS) with usual care (UC) plus 
onabotulinumtoxinA versus UC alone in Scotland.
METHODS: We developed a model to simulate costs and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) gained from treating ULPSS. Efficacy data and health utilities were 
taken from clinical trials. Unit costs were taken from published Scottish 
sources. We compared UC plus onabotulinumtoxinA and UC alone in three scenarios: 
(i) a scenario from the National Health Service perspective, which included 
differences in onabotulinumtoxinA use, specialist visits and day-hospital 
visits; (ii) a scenario that only included differences in onabotulinumtoxinA use 
and specialist visits; and (iii) a scenario from a societal perspective that 
included differences in onabotulinumtoxinA use, specialist visits and caregiver 
burden.
RESULTS: In the first scenario, the model predicted that UC plus 
onabotulinumtoxinA produced 0.107 QALYs at an additional cost of £1099 compared 
with UC alone over 5 years, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of £10,271/QALY. In the second scenario, the ICER increased to 
£27,134/QALY. In the third scenario (societal perspective), UC plus 
onabotulinumtoxinA produced lower total cost and higher QALYs, and therefore was 
superior to UC alone.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on a model, UC plus onabotulinumtoxinA improved disability, 
which translated into greater QALYs but also increased direct medical costs 
compared with UC alone; however, the resulting ICER can be considered 
cost-effective. Moreover, UC plus onabotulinumtoxinA can be cost-saving if 
reduction in caregiver burden was included. OnabotulinumtoxinA offers value for 
money in the management of ULPSS in Scotland.

© 2012 The Author(s) European Journal of Neurology © 2012 EFNS.

DOI: 10.1111/ene.12062
PMID: 23278954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. BJU Int. 2013 Mar;111(3):437-50. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11597.x. Epub
 2012 Dec 28.

Primary treatments for clinically localised prostate cancer: a comprehensive 
lifetime cost-utility analysis.

Cooperberg MR(1), Ramakrishna NR, Duff SB, Hughes KE, Sadownik S, Smith JA, 
Tewari AK.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Urology and Epidemiology and Biostatistics, UCSF Helen Diller 
Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, San Francisco, CA, USA. 
mcooperberg@urology.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    BJU Int. 2013 Mar;111(3):365.
    BJU Int. 2013 Mar;111(3):366-7.

WHAT'S KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT? AND WHAT DOES THE STUDY ADD?: Multiple treatment 
alternatives exist for localised prostate cancer, with few high-quality studies 
directly comparing their comparative effectiveness and costs. The present study 
is the most comprehensive cost-effectiveness analysis to date for localised 
prostate cancer, conducted with a lifetime horizon and accounting for survival, 
health-related quality-of-life, and cost impact of secondary treatments and 
other downstream events, as well as primary treatment choices. The analysis 
found minor differences, generally slightly favouring surgical methods, in 
quality-adjusted life years across treatment options. However, radiation therapy 
(RT) was consistently more expensive than surgery, and some alternatives, e.g. 
intensity-modulated RT for low-risk disease, were dominated - that is, both more 
expensive and less effective than competing alternatives.
OBJECTIVE: To characterise the costs and outcomes associated with radical 
prostatectomy (open, laparoscopic, or robot-assisted) and radiation therapy (RT: 
dose-escalated three-dimensional conformal RT, intensity-modulated RT, 
brachytherapy, or combination), using a comprehensive, lifetime decision 
analytical model.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to follow hypothetical men 
with low-, intermediate-, and high-risk prostate cancer over their lifetimes 
after primary treatment; probabilities of outcomes were based on an exhaustive 
literature search yielding 232 unique publications. In each Markov cycle, 
patients could have remission, recurrence, salvage treatment, metastasis, death 
from prostate cancer, and death from other causes. Utilities for each health 
state were determined, and disutilities were applied for complications and 
toxicities of treatment. Costs were determined from the USA payer perspective, 
with incorporation of patient costs in a sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Differences across treatments in quality-adjusted life years across 
methods were modest, ranging from 10.3 to 11.3 for low-risk patients, 9.6-10.5 
for intermediate-risk patients and 7.8-9.3 for high-risk patients. There were no 
statistically significant differences among surgical methods, which tended to be 
more effective than RT methods, with the exception of combined external beam + 
brachytherapy for high-risk disease. RT methods were consistently more expensive 
than surgical methods; costs ranged from $19 901 (robot-assisted prostatectomy 
for low-risk disease) to $50 276 (combined RT for high-risk disease). These 
findings were robust to an extensive set of sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Our analysis found small differences in outcomes and substantial 
differences in payer and patient costs across treatment alternatives. These 
findings may inform future policy discussions about strategies to improve 
efficiency of treatment selection for localised prostate cancer.

© 2012 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11597.x
PMCID: PMC3587031
PMID: 23279038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Congenit Heart Dis. 2013 Jul-Aug;8(4):281-8. doi: 10.1111/chd.12025. Epub
2012  Dec 27.

Facilitators of and barriers to advance care planning in adult congenital heart 
disease.

Greutmann M(1), Tobler D, Colman JM, Greutmann-Yantiri M, Librach SL, Kovacs AH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, University Hospital of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

BACKGROUND: Most adults with congenital heart disease (CHD) are interested in 
discussing matters related to advance care planning (ACP) early in the disease 
course, yet few such conversations actually occur. We aimed to evaluate factors 
that impact these discussions between patients and adult CHD providers.
METHODS: Two hundred adult CHD outpatients completed a survey that included 
factors that might impact ACP discussions with their doctors. In parallel, 
forty-eight providers within the Canadian Adult Congenital Heart Network 
completed a similar online survey. Responses were compared between the groups.
RESULTS: Most providers (85%) worried that they were unable to reliably estimate 
life expectancy and believed that patients were not ready for end-of-life 
discussions if their estimated life expectancies were beyond 5 years (63%) or 
beyond 10 years (79%). In contrast, only 24% of patients, independent of disease 
complexity, thought they were not ready to talk about ACP. Most providers (83%) 
reported that greater certainty about patients' prognoses would help them 
discuss ACP. Patients thought that such discussions were best facilitated when 
they had trust in their doctors (85%) and believed their doctors are good at 
taking care of patients with CHD (78%).
CONCLUSION: Despite the fact that challenges to prognostication exist, 
discussions about ACP should not be reserved for patients with a severely 
reduced life expectancy. Most patients want these discussions regardless of the 
complexity of their disease. The trusting and close patient-doctor relationship 
in adult CHD, often evolving over many years, may provide an excellent platform 
from which to initiate such discussions.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/chd.12025
PMID: 23279997 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Int J Stroke. 2013 Jan;8(1):54-8. doi: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2012.00966.x.

Improving quality of life by increasing outings after stroke: study protocol for 
the Out-and-About trial.

McCluskey A(1), Ada L, Middleton S, Kelly PJ, Goodall S, Grimshaw JM, Logan P, 
Longworth M, Karageorge A.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Occupational Therapy, Faculty of Health Sciences, The 
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia. annie.mccluskey@sydney.edu.au

RATIONALE: Almost one-third of Australians need help to travel outdoors after a 
stroke. Ambulation training and escorted outings are recommended as best 
practice in Australian clinical guidelines for stroke. Yet fewer than 20% of 
people with stroke receive enough of these sessions in their local community to 
change outcomes.
AIMS: The Out-and-About trial aims to determine the efficacy and cost 
effectiveness of an implementation program to change team behavior and increase 
outings by people with stroke.
DESIGN: A two-group cluster-randomized trial will be conducted using concealed 
allocation, blinded assessors, and intention-to-treat analysis. Twenty community 
teams and their stroke clients (n = 300) will be recruited. Teams will be 
randomized to receive either the Out-and-About program or written guidelines 
only.
STUDY OUTCOMES: The primary outcome is the proportion of people with stroke 
receiving multiple escorted outings during therapy sessions, measured at 
baseline and 13 months postintervention. Secondary outcomes include number of 
outings and distance traveled, measured using a self-report diary at baseline 
and six months postbaseline, and a global positioning system after six months. 
Cost effectiveness will measure quality-adjusted life years and health service 
use, measured at baseline and six months postbaseline.
DISCUSSION: A potential outcome of this study will be evidence for a costed, 
transferable implementation program. If successful, the program will have 
international relevance and transferability. Another potential outcome will be 
validation of a novel and objective method of measuring outdoor travel (global 
positioning system) to supplement self-report methods.

© 2012 The Authors. International Journal of Stroke © 2012 World Stroke 
Organization.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2012.00966.x
PMID: 23280270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Hepatology. 2013 Jun;57(6):2164-70. doi: 10.1002/hep.26218. Epub 2013 May 6.

Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) disease burden and cost in the United States.

Razavi H(1), Elkhoury AC, Elbasha E, Estes C, Pasini K, Poynard T, Kumar R.

Author information:
(1)Center for Disease Analysis, Louisville, CO, USA. homie.razavi@c4da.com

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a leading cause of cirrhosis, 
hepatocellular carcinoma, and liver transplantation. A better understanding of 
HCV disease progression and the associated cost can help the medical community 
manage HCV and develop treatment strategies in light of the emergence of several 
potent anti-HCV therapies. A system dynamic model with 36 cohorts was used to 
provide maximum flexibility and improved forecasting. New infections incidence 
of 16,020 (95% confidence interval, 13,510-19,510) was estimated in 2010. HCV 
viremic prevalence peaked in 1994 at 3.3 (2.8-4.0) million, but it is expected 
to decline by two-thirds by 2030. The prevalence of more advanced liver disease, 
however, is expected to increase, as well as the total cost associated with 
chronic HCV infection. Today, the total cost is estimated at $6.5 ($4.3-$8.4) 
billion and it will peak in 2024 at $9.1 ($6.4-$13.3) billion. The lifetime cost 
of an individual infected with HCV in 2011 was estimated at $64,490. However, 
this cost is significantly higher among individuals with a longer life 
expectancy.
CONCLUSION: This analysis demonstrates that US HCV prevalence is in decline due 
to a lower incidence of infections. However, the prevalence of advanced liver 
disease will continue to increase as well as the corresponding healthcare costs. 
Lifetime healthcare costs for an HCV-infected person are significantly higher 
than for noninfected persons. In addition, it is possible to substantially 
reduce HCV infection through active management. (HEPATOLOGY 2013;57:2164-2170).

Copyright © 2013 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26218
PMCID: PMC3763475
PMID: 23280550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Arthritis Rheum. 2013 Apr;65(4):1116-21. doi: 10.1002/art.37827.

AA amyloidosis complicating the hereditary periodic fever syndromes.

Lane T(1), Loeffler JM, Rowczenio DM, Gilbertson JA, Bybee A, Russell TL, 
Gillmore JD, Wechalekar AD, Hawkins PN, Lachmann HJ.

Author information:
(1)National Amyloidosis Centre, University College London Medical School, Royal 
Free Campus, Rowland Hill Street, London NW3 2PF, UK.

OBJECTIVE: AA amyloidosis is a life-threatening complication of the hereditary 
periodic fever syndromes (HPFS), which are otherwise often compatible with 
normal life expectancy. This study was undertaken to determine the 
characteristics, presentation, natural history, and response to treatment in 46 
patients who had been referred for evaluation at the UK National Amyloidosis 
Centre.
METHODS: Disease activity was monitored by serial measurement of serum amyloid 
A. Renal function was assessed by measurement of serum creatinine and albumin 
levels, the estimated glomerular filtration rate, and proteinuria from 24-hour 
urine collections. The amyloid load was measured by serum amyloid P 
scintigraphy.
RESULTS: Twenty-four patients had familial Mediterranean fever, 12 patients had 
tumor necrosis factor receptor-associated periodic syndrome, 6 patients had 
cryopyrin-associated periodic syndromes, and 4 patients had mevalonate kinase 
deficiency. The median age at onset of HPFS was 5 years; median age at 
presentation with AA amyloidosis was 38 years. Diagnosis of an HPFS had not been 
considered prior to presentation with AA amyloidosis in 23 patients (50%). 
Eleven patients (24%) had end-stage renal failure (ESRF) at presentation; of 
these, 3 had received transplants prior to referral. A further 13 patients 
developed ESRF over the followup period, with 10 undergoing renal 
transplantation. The median time to progression to ESRF from onset of AA 
amyloidosis was 3.3 years (interquartile range [IQR] 2-8), with a median time to 
transplant of 4 years (IQR 3-6). Eleven patients (24%) died. The median survival 
in the entire cohort was 19 years from diagnosis of AA amyloidosis. Of the 37 
patients who were treated successfully, or in whom at least partial suppression 
of the underlying HPFS was achieved, 17 (46%) showed amyloid regression, 14 
(38%) showed a stable amyloid load, and 2 (5%) showed increased amyloid 
deposition over the followup period.
CONCLUSION: AA amyloidosis remains a challenging and serious late complication 
of HPFS; however, outcomes are excellent when HPFS is diagnosed early enough to 
allow effective treatment, thus preventing or retarding further amyloid 
deposition and organ damage.

Copyright © 2013 by the American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.37827
PMID: 23280696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Clin Psychol Psychother. 2014 Mar-Apr;21(2):97-107. doi: 10.1002/cpp.1831.
Epub  2012 Dec 19.

Forecasting success: patients' expectations for improvement and their relations 
to baseline, process and outcome variables in group cognitive-behavioural 
therapy for depression.

Tsai M(1), Ogrodniczuk JS, Sochting I, Mirmiran J.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada.

There is growing evidence for the important role of patients' outcome 
expectations to the process and outcome of psychotherapy, yet its relevance to 
group cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) for depression has not been examined. 
In an effort to fill this void, the present study investigated expectations for 
improvement among 80 psychiatric outpatients attending a group CBT program for 
depression. The study addressed the following four questions: (1) Which baseline 
patient characteristics might be associated with patients' expectations for 
improvement? (2) Does providing a rationale and outline for treatment affect 
patients' expectations? (3) Are patients' expectations related to the quality of 
therapeutic alliance? and (4) Are patients' expectations associated with the 
outcome of treatment? The main findings of the study are as follows: (a) 
baseline symptoms of depression, quality of life and current suicidal ideations 
were consistently associated with outcome expectancies; (b) outcome expectancies 
were unrelated to treatment completion status; (c) although expectancy ratings 
did not change significantly for the group as a whole, there was some 
variability in how individual patient's expectancy ratings changed; (d) baseline 
expectancies were related to early-treatment alliance quality, but not to 
mid-treatment alliance, whereas early-treatment expectancies were significantly 
associated with mid-treatment alliance; and (e) baseline expectations of 
favourable outcome had a negative association with improvement in anxiety 
symptoms, yet expectancy ratings from session 3 had a positive association with 
improvement in quality of life and interpersonal problems. Increases in 
expectancy ratings were significantly related to improvement in anxiety, quality 
of life and interpersonal problems.
KEY PRACTITIONER MESSAGE: Patients who present in a particularly hopeless and 
demoralized state are likely to have low expectations for a positive outcome of 
treatment. Efforts should be made in the first few sessions of therapy to 
mobilize patients' hope and expectation of success, for increases in one's 
expectations may facilitate a favourable treatment outcome. An optimistic 
outlook on the probability of success in treatment may contribute to the 
development of a strong working relationship between the patient and the 
therapist.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/cpp.1831
PMID: 23280955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Nature. 2012 Dec 20;492(7429):311-2. doi: 10.1038/492311b.

A burden weighed.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1038/492311b
PMID: 23281498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. World J Surg. 2013 Jul;37(7):1536-43. doi: 10.1007/s00268-012-1899-z.

Burden of surgically correctable disabilities among children in the Dadaab 
Refugee Camp.

Wu VK(1), Poenaru D.

Author information:
(1)BethanyKids at Kijabe Hospital, P.O. Box 20, Kijabe, Kenya.

BACKGROUND: Surgery is increasingly recognized as a means to reduce the 
morbidity and mortality of disabling impairments in resource-limited 
environments. We sought to estimate the burden of surgically correctable 
disabling impairments and the cost-effectiveness of their treatment among 
children in a large refugee camp.
METHODS: This is a chart review of all patients aged 0-18 years from Dadaab 
Refugee Camp (Kenya) treated at a facility primarily responsible for providing 
pediatric surgical care in the region. Total disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) averted were calculated using life expectancy tables and established or 
estimated disability weights. A sensitivity analysis was performed using various 
life expectancy tables. Delayed averted DALYs caused by delay in care were also 
estimated. Inpatient costs were collected to perform a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.
RESULTS: Between 2005 and 2011 a total of 640 procedures were performed on 341 
patients. The median age at surgery was 4.6 years, and 33 % of the children 
treated were female. Only 13.5 % of surgeries estimated as required for common 
congenital surgical conditions were actually performed. The total number of 
DALYs averted ranged from 4,136 to 9,529 (6.4-14.8 per patient), depending on 
the calculation method used. Cost-effectiveness analysis resulted in values of 
$40-$88 per DALY.
CONCLUSIONS: The burden of pediatric surgical disabling impairments in refugee 
camps is substantial. Surgical intervention to address this burden is both 
feasible and cost-effective. Such intervention can significantly decrease the 
burden of disability among children affected by armed conflicts.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-012-1899-z
PMID: 23283220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Stem Cells Transl Med. 2012 Dec;1(12):921-6. doi: 10.5966/sctm.2012-0026.
Epub  2012 Nov 26.

Angiogenic dysfunction in bone marrow-derived early outgrowth cells from 
diabetic animals is attenuated by SIRT1 activation.

Yuen DA(1), Zhang Y, Thai K, Spring C, Chan L, Guo X, Advani A, Sivak JM, 
Gilbert RE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, St. Michael's Hospital, Ontario, Canada.

Impaired endothelial repair is a key contributor to microvascular rarefaction 
and consequent end-organ dysfunction in diabetes. Recent studies suggest an 
important role for bone marrow-derived early outgrowth cells (EOCs) in mediating 
endothelial repair, but the function of these cells is impaired in diabetes, as 
in advanced age. We sought to determine whether diabetes-associated EOC 
dysfunction might be attenuated by pharmacological activation of silent 
information regulator protein 1 (SIRT1), a lysine deacetylase implicated in 
nutrient-dependent life span extension in mammals. Despite being cultured in 
normal (5.5 mM) glucose for 7 days, EOCs from diabetic rats expressed less SIRT1 
mRNA, induced less endothelial tube formation in vitro and neovascularization in 
vivo, and secreted less of the proangiogenic ELR(+) CXC chemokines CXCL1, CXCL3, 
and CXCL5. Ex vivo SIRT1 activation restored EOC chemokine secretion and 
increased the in vitro and in vivo angiogenic activity of EOC conditioned medium 
derived from diabetic animals to levels similar to that derived from control 
animals. These findings suggest a pivotal role for SIRT1 in diabetes-induced EOC 
dysfunction and that its pharmacologic activation may provide a new strategy for 
the restoration of EOC-mediated repair mechanisms.

DOI: 10.5966/sctm.2012-0026
PMCID: PMC3659675
PMID: 23283553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Am J Mens Health. 2013 May;7(3):243-54. doi: 10.1177/1557988312469659. Epub
2013  Jan 1.

"Normative content" and health inequity enculturation: a logic model of men's 
health advocacy.

Leone JE(1), Rovito MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Movement Arts, Health Promotion, and Leisure Studies, 
Bridgewater State University, Adrian Tinsley Center, 325 Plymouth Street, 
Bridgewater, MA 02325, USA. james.leone@bridgew.edu

Epidemiologic studies and related literature consistently report that males have 
fewer years of life expectancy than females. Moreover, males experience fewer 
quality years of life in that they tend to live with greater rates of morbidity 
such as heart disease, cancer, and diabetes among other conditions. Causal 
evidence traditionally highlights the role of biology in determining the life 
course for males. However, emerging literature suggests that social determinants 
of health play a more central role in male morbidity and mortality, and thus 
contribute to health inequities between the sexes. The purpose of this article 
is to explore core concepts of social determinants of health as they pertain to 
male health inequities and provide a systematic conceptualization of how society 
has become encultured to view these inequities as "normative." Strategies to 
improve male health are discussed using a logic model to illustrate male health 
advocacy in the face of the social climes of encultured health inequities.

DOI: 10.1177/1557988312469659
PMID: 23283809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e52155. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052155. Epub 2012
Dec  17.

High drug resistance prevalence among vertically HIV-infected patients 
transferred from pediatric care to adult units in Spain.

de Mulder M(1), Yebra G, Navas A, de José MI, Gurbindo MD, González-Tomé MI, 
Mellado MJ, Saavedra-Lozano J, Muñoz-Fernández MÁ, de Ory SJ, Ramos JT, Holguín 
A; Madrid Cohort of HIV-Infected Children.

Collaborators: Navarro ML, Delgado R, Martín-Fontelos P, Guillén S, Martínez J, 
Roa MA, Beceiro J, Blázquez D, Fernández-Silveira L, Medín G, Rojo P, Prieto L, 
García-Hortelano M, Jiménez B, Calvo C, Rubio B, Gonzalez-Granado I, Bellón-Cano 
JM, Penin-Antón JM, García I, Medin G.

Author information:
(1)HIV-1 Molecular Epidemiology Laboratory, Microbiology and Parasitology 
Department, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, IRYCIS and CIBER-ESP, Madrid, 
Spain.

BACKGROUND: Antiretroviral treatment (ART) has contributed to increased life 
expectancy of HIV-1 infected children. In developed countries, an increasing 
number of children reaching adulthood are transferred to adult units. The 
objectives were to describe the demographic and clinical features, ART history, 
antiviral drug resistance and drug susceptibility in HIV-1 perinatally infected 
adolescents transferred to adult care units in Spain from the Madrid Cohort of 
HIV-1 infected children.
METHODS: Clinical, virological and immunological features of HIV-1 vertically 
infected patients in the Madrid Cohort of HIV-infected children were analyzed at 
the time of transfer. Pol sequences from each patient were recovered before 
transfer. Resistance mutations according to the InternationaI AIDS Society 2011 
list were identified and interpreted using the Stanford algorithm. Results were 
compared to the non-transferred HIV-1 infected pediatric cohort from Madrid.
RESULTS: One hundred twelve infected patients were transferred to adult units 
between 1997 and 2011. They were mainly perinatally infected (93.7%), with a 
mean nadir CD4+-T-cells count of 10% and presented moderate or severe clinical 
symptoms (75%). By the time of transfer, the mean age was 18.9 years, the mean 
CD4+T-cells count was 627.5 cells/ml, 64.2% presented more than 350 
CD4+T-cells/ml and 47.3% had ≤ 200 RNA-copies/ml. Most (97.3%) were ART 
experienced receiving Highly Active ART (HAART) (84.8%). Resistance prevalence 
among pretreated was 50.9%, 76.9% and 36.5% for Protease Inhibitors (PI), 
Nucleoside Reverse Transcriptase Inhibitors (NRTI) and Non-NRTI (NNRTI), 
respectively. Resistance mutations were significantly higher among transferred 
patients compared to non-transferred for the PI+NRTI combination (19% vs. 8.4%). 
Triple resistance was similar to non-transferred pediatric patients (17.3% vs. 
17.6%).
CONCLUSION: Despite a good immunological and virological control before 
transfer, we found high levels of resistance to PI, NRTI and triple drug 
resistance in HIV-1 infected adolescents transferred to adult units.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0052155
PMCID: PMC3524105
PMID: 23284913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


982. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2012 Sep;20(3):167-73. doi: 10.21101/cejph.a3708.

Czech Republic vs. EU-27: economic level, health care and population health.

Hájek O(1), Grebenícek P, Popesko B, Hrabinová S.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Management and Economics, Tomas Bata University in Zlín, Zlín, 
Czech Republic. hajek@fame.utb.cz

This paper focuses on the improvement of the health characteristics in European 
countries including the life expectancy of their inhabitants. The primary 
objective is to describe, compare and analyze the status and development in the 
Czech Republic and other countries of the European Union in terms of the key 
health care indicators and population health status in relation to the economy 
related indicators the authors have chosen. The secondary objective is to verify 
the hypothesis which states that the health status of the population represented 
by the indicator of life expectancy is closely related to the economic level of 
individual countries as well as to the amount of total expenditure on health 
care. Based on the results of the analysis we can conclude that the Czech 
Republic balances on the border of the group of countries with average values of 
indicators and the group with poorer values. The results also suggest relatively 
strong ties between the economic level and health status of the population 
represented by life expectancy.

DOI: 10.21101/cejph.a3708
PMID: 23285516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Am J Manag Care. 2012 Dec;18(12):790-8.

Trends in viral hepatitis cost-effectiveness studies.

Saab S(1), Choi Y, Rahal H, Li K, Tong M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Geffen School of Medicine, University of California, 
Los Angeles, 200 Medical Plaza, Ste 214, Los Angeles, CA 90095-7302, USA. 
ssaab@mednet.ucla.edu

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analyses compare the value of different treatment 
strategies, given that one strategy is more effective but also more costly than 
the other. The results are often used as a pharmacoeconomic basis to support a 
particular treatment strategy.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether studies that reported favorable 
cost-effectiveness results in the antiviral treatment of hepatitis B and 
hepatitis C were more likely to be published.
METHODS: A systematic literature search was performed to identify all original 
cost-effectiveness studies published from 1987 through 2011 regarding antiviral 
treatment of hepatitis B or hepatitis C. Data were abstracted independently by 2 
reviewers. Corresponding authors were also contacted.
RESULTS: Of the 77 original cost-effectiveness analyses, 55 (71.4%) utilized a 
cost-effectiveness ratio below $50,000 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) in 
reaching a main conclusion for the study. A total of 46 analyses (59.74%) 
utilized ratios below $20,000/QALY. Most analyses (71 [92.2%]) reported 
favorable cost-effectiveness results. Countries outside of the United States and 
Europe tended to report lower cost-effectiveness ratios. Academic-funded studies 
were less likely to report cost-effectiveness ratios below $20,000/QALY. Most of 
the corresponding authors stated that their cost-effectiveness studies were 
published.
CONCLUSIONS: Most published cost-effectiveness analyses regarding antiviral 
treatment of hepatitis B or hepatitis C reported favorable results. These 
results may suggest that researchers only attempt cost-effectiveness studies 
when there is a high likelihood of positive results. Regardless of the explicit 
