PMID: 23367794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Acta Neurol Scand. 2013 Jun;127(6):419-26. doi: 10.1111/ane.12077. Epub 2013
Jan  31.

Retigabine as add-on treatment of refractory epilepsy--a cost-utility study in a 
Swedish setting.

Kristian B(1), Wachtmeister K, Stefan F, Forsgren L.

Author information:
(1)Department of economics, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
kristian.bolin@nek.lu.se

OBJECTIVES: To calculate comparative incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (cost 
per quality-adjusted life year, QALY) and net marginal benefits for retigabine 
as add-on treatment for patients with uncontrolled focal seizures as compared to 
add-on lacosamide treatment and no add-on treatment, respectively.
MATERIALS & METHODS: Calculations were performed using a validated decision-tree 
model. The study population consisted of adult patients with focal-onset 
epilepsy in published randomized placebo-controlled add-on trials of retigabine 
or lacosamide. Healthcare utilization and QALY for each treatment alternative 
were calculated. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed using the 
specification of this model as a basis for Monte Carlo simulations. 2009 prices 
were used for all costs.
RESULTS: Results were reported for a 2-year follow-up period. Retigabine add-on 
treatment was both more effective and less costly than lacosamide add-on 
treatment, and the cost per additional QALY for the retigabine no add-on 
(standard) therapy comparison was estimated at 2009€ 15,753. Using a 
willingness-to-pay threshold for a QALY of € 50,000, the net marginal values 
were estimated at 2009€ 605,874 for retigabine vs lacosamide and 2009€ 2,114,203 
for retigabine vs no add-on, per 1,000 patients. The probabilistic analyses 
showed that the likelihood that retigabine treatment is cost-effective is at 
least 70%.
CONCLUSIONS: The estimated cost per additional QALY, for the retigabine vs no 
add-on treatment comparison, is well within the range of newly published 
estimates of willingness to pay for an additional QALY. Thus, add-on retigabine 
treatment for people with focal-onset epilepsy with no/limited response to 
standard antiepileptic treatment appears to be cost-effective.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/ane.12077
PMID: 23368976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. J Palliat Med. 2013 Mar;16(3):250-5. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2012.0270. Epub 2013
Jan  31.

Repeat dose opioids may be effective for breathlessness in chronic heart failure 
if given for long enough.

Oxberry SG(1), Bland JM, Clark AL, Cleland JG, Johnson MJ.

Author information:
(1)Hull York Medical School, University of Hull, Scarborough, North Yorkshire, 
United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: The longer-term effects of opioids for breathlessness are not known 
in people with chronic heart failure (CHF).
OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to assess the longer-term effect of oral opioids on 
breathlessness due to CHF.
METHODS: We conducted a 3-month open-label extension to a crossover randomized 
controlled trial (RCT) comparing 4 days of morphine, oxycodone, and placebo. 
Thirty-five participants from a tertiary cardiology clinic completed the RCT. 
Thirty-three were followed for 3 months, continuing open-label opioids if they 
wished. Thirteen participants continued an opioid; 20 did not. Four measures of 
breathlessness intensity (0-10 numerical rating scale [NRS] and modified Borg 
score, each recording worst and average breathlessness during 24 hours) were 
combined using principal component analysis to give a single measure for the 
primary analysis. Groups were compared using analysis of covariance. Secondary 
measures included quality of life (SF-12(®) Health Survey), cardiorespiratory, 
and global impression of change in breathlessness at 3 months.
RESULTS: At 3 months, the composite breathlessness measure improved to a greater 
extent in the opioid group (p=0.017). The opioid group had an improvement in 
global impression of change (mean 2.62 [opioids] versus -0.65 [nonopioids]; 
p=0.0009). The SF-12 physical component improved more in the opioid group 
(p=0.014). Cardiorespiratory variables were unchanged.
CONCLUSIONS: Opioids given for 3 months were well tolerated and safe. 
Opioid-related improvement in breathlessness in people with CHF might not be 
seen until longer-term administration. We cannot conclude from these data that 
they are effective and a longer-term RCT is needed.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2012.0270
PMID: 23368980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Eur J Haematol. 2013 Apr;90(4):308-12. doi: 10.1111/ejh.12082. Epub 2013 Feb
26.

Stem cell transplantation after reduced-intensity conditioning for sickle cell 
disease.

Matthes-Martin S(1), Lawitschka A, Fritsch G, Lion T, Grimm B, Breuer S, Boztug 
H, Karlhuber S, Holter W, Peters C, Minkov M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics, St. Anna Children's Hospital, Medical University, 
Kinderspitalgasse 6, Vienna, Austria. susanne.matthes@stanna.at

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is still associated with substantial morbidity and 
reduced life expectancy. Disease-related mortality rises to 14% in adolescents 
and young adults. Overall and disease-free survival following haematopoietic 
stem cell transplantation (HSCT) is 90% and 95%, respectively. To reduce 
transplant-associated late effects, the feasibility of a highly 
immunosuppressive reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) regimen was explored in 
children with SCD and a matched sibling donor. Eight patients (median age, 9 yr) 
and symptomatic SCD were included. The conditioning regimen consisted of 
fludarabine, melphalan and either thiotepa or total lymphoid irradiation plus 
antithymocyte globuline or alemtuzumab. The graft was bone marrow in seven and 
cord blood in one case. The conditioning regimen was well tolerated and no 
severe infectious complications occurred. All patients displayed mixed 
chimaerism on day +28. After a median follow-up of 4 yr, 3/8 patients have mixed 
leucocyte chimaerism and 8/8 patients have 100% donor erythropoiesis. HSCT from 
matched sibling donors following a RIC regimen was well tolerated and resulted 
in cure in all patients studied. If confirmed in larger patient cohorts, these 
observations will have important implications for the indications of HSCT in 
children with SCD.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S.

DOI: 10.1111/ejh.12082
PMID: 23369103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. Aust Health Rev. 2013 May;37(2):246-50. doi: 10.1071/AH12165.

Chronic condition management and self-management in Aboriginal communities in 
South Australia: outcomes of a longitudinal study.

Harvey PW(1), Petkov J, Kowanko I, Helps Y, Battersby M.

Author information:
(1)Margaret Tobin Centre, Flinders University, Flinders Drive, Bedford Park, 
Australia. peter.harvey@flinders.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: This paper describes the longitudinal component of a larger mixed 
methods study into the processes and outcomes of chronic condition management 
and self-management strategies implemented in three Aboriginal communities in 
South Australia. The study was designed to document the connection between the 
application of structured systems of care for Aboriginal people and their 
longer-term health status.
METHODS: The study concentrated on three diverse Aboriginal communities in South 
Australia; the Port Lincoln Aboriginal Health Service, the Riverland community, 
and Nunkuwarrin Yunti Aboriginal Health Service in the Adelaide metropolitan 
area. Repeated-measure clinical data were collected for individual participants 
using a range of clinical indicators for diabetes (type 1 and 2) and related 
chronic conditions. Clinical data were analysed using random effects modelling 
techniques with changes in key clinical indicators being modelled at both the 
individual and group levels.
RESULTS: Where care planning has been in place longer than in other sites 
overall improvements were noted in BMI, cholesterol (high density and low 
density lipids) and HbA1c. These results indicate that for Aboriginal patients 
with complex chronic conditions, participation in and adherence to structured 
care planning and self-management strategies can contribute to improved overall 
health status and health outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: The outcomes reported here represent an initial and important step 
in quantifying the health benefits that can accrue for Aboriginal people living 
with complex chronic conditions such as diabetes, heart disease and respiratory 
disease. The study highlights the benefits of developing long-term working 
relationships with Aboriginal communities as a basis for conducting effective 
collaborative health research programs. WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE TOPIC? Chronic 
condition management and self-management programs have been available to 
Aboriginal people in a range of forms for some time. We know that some groups of 
patients are keen to engage with care planning and self-management protocols and 
we have anecdotal evidence of this engagement leading to improved quality of 
life and health outcomes for Aboriginal people. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD? This 
paper provides early evidence of sustained improvement over time for a cohort of 
Aboriginal people who are learning to deal with a range of chronic illnesses 
through accessing structured systems of support and care. WHAT ARE THE 
IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTITIONERS? This longitudinal evidence of improved outcomes 
for Aboriginal people is encouraging and should lead on to more definitive 
studies of outcomes accruing for people engaged in structured systems of care. 
Not only does this finding have implications for the overall management of 
chronic illness in Aboriginal communities, but it points the way to how health 
services might best invest their resources and efforts to improve the health 
status of people with chronic conditions and, in the process, close the gap 
between the life expectancy of Aboriginal people and that of other community 
groups in Australia.

DOI: 10.1071/AH12165
PMID: 23369208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Syst Rev. 2013 Jan 31;2:9. doi: 10.1186/2046-4053-2-9.

Psychological treatments for common mental health problems experienced by 
informal carers of adults with chronic physical health conditions (Protocol).

Woodford J(1), Farrand P, Richards D, Llewellyn DJ.

Author information:
(1)Mood Disorders Centre, Psychology, College of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Exeter, Exeter, UK. j.woodford@exeter.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Improved life expectancy is resulting in increased outpatient 
treatment of people with chronic physical health conditions and reliance on the 
provision of informal care in the community. However, informal care is also 
associated with increased risk of experiencing common mental health difficulties 
such as depression and anxiety. Currently there is a lack of evidence-based 
treatments for such difficulties, resulting in poor health outcomes for both the 
informal carer and care recipient.
METHODS/DESIGN: Electronic databases will be systemically searched for 
randomised controlled trials examining the effectiveness of psychological 
interventions targeted at treating depression or anxiety experienced by informal 
carers of patients with chronic physical health conditions. Database searches 
will be supplemented by contact with experts, reference and citation checking 
and grey literature. Both published and unpublished research in English language 
will be reviewed with no limitations on year or source. Individual, group and 
patient-carer dyad focused interventions will be eligible. Primary outcomes of 
interest will be validated self-report or clinician administered measures of 
depression or anxiety. If data allows a meta-analysis will examine: (1) the 
overall effectiveness of psychological interventions in relation to outcomes of 
depression or anxiety; (2) intervention components associated with 
effectiveness.
DISCUSSION: This review will provide evidence on the effectiveness of 
psychological interventions for depression and anxiety experienced by informal 
carers of patients with chronic physical health conditions. In addition, it will 
examine intervention components associated with effectiveness. Results will 
inform the design and development of a psychological intervention for carers of 
people with chronic physical health conditions experiencing depression and 
anxiety. PROSPERO registration number: CRD42012003114.

DOI: 10.1186/2046-4053-2-9
PMCID: PMC3599247
PMID: 23369319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Accid Anal Prev. 2013 Dec;61:203-11. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2013.01.002. Epub
2013  Jan 11.

Reducing older driver motor vehicle collisions via earlier cataract surgery.

Mennemeyer ST(1), Owsley C, McGwin G Jr.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Organization and Policy, School of Public Health, 
University of Alabama at Birmingham 330 RPHB 1720 2nd Ave S, Birmingham, AL 
35294-0022, USA. Electronic address: smenneme@uab.edu.

Older adults who undergo cataract extraction have roughly half the rate of motor 
vehicle collision (MVC) involvement per mile driven compared to cataract 
patients who do not elect cataract surgery. Currently in the U.S., most insurers 
do not allow payment for cataract surgery based upon the findings of a vision 
exam unless accompanied by an individual's complaint of visual difficulties that 
seriously interfere with driving or other daily activities and individuals 
themselves may be slow or reluctant to complain and seek relief. As a 
consequence, surgery tends to occur after significant vision problems have 
emerged. We hypothesize that a proactive policy encouraging cataract surgery 
earlier for a lesser level of complaint would significantly reduce MVCs among 
older drivers. We used a Monte Carlo model to simulate the MVC experience of the 
U.S. population from age 60 to 89 under alternative protocols for the timing of 
cataract surgery which we call "Current Practice" (CP) and "Earlier Surgery" 
(ES). Our base model finds, from a societal perspective with undiscounted 2010 
dollars, that switching to ES from CP reduces by about 21% the average number of 
MVCs, fatalities, and MVC cost per person. The net effect on total cost - all 
MVC costs plus cataract surgery expenditures - is a reduction of about 16%. 
Quality Adjusted Life Years would increase by about 5%. From the perspective of 
payers for healthcare, the switch would increase cataract surgery expenditure 
for ages 65+ by about 8% and for ages 60-64 by about 47% but these expenditures 
are substantially offset after age 65 by reductions in the medical and emergency 
services component of MVC cost. Similar results occur with discounting at 3% and 
with various sensitivity analyses. We conclude that a policy of ES would 
significantly reduce MVCs and their associated consequences.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aap.2013.01.002
PMCID: PMC3644302
PMID: 23369786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Trends Cogn Sci. 2013 Mar;17(3):111-20. doi: 10.1016/j.tics.2013.01.001.
Epub  2013 Jan 29.

Decay happens: the role of active forgetting in memory.

Hardt O(1), Nader K, Nadel L.

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Department of Psychology, Montréal, Québec, H3A 1B1, 
Canada. oliver.hardt@me.com

Although the biological bases of forgetting remain obscure, the consensus among 
cognitive psychologists emphasizes interference processes, rejecting decay in 
accounting for memory loss. In contrast to this view, recent advances in 
understanding the neurobiology of long-term memory maintenance lead us to 
propose that a brain-wide well-regulated decay process, occurring mostly during 
sleep, systematically removes selected memories. Down-regulation of this decay 
process can increase the life expectancy of a memory and may eventually prevent 
its loss. Memory interference usually occurs during certain active processing 
phases, such as encoding and retrieval, and will be stronger in brain areas with 
minimal sensory integration and less pattern separation. In areas with efficient 
pattern separation, such as the hippocampus, interference-driven forgetting will 
be minimal, and, consequently, decay will cause most forgetting.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tics.2013.01.001
PMID: 23369831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Am J Health Syst Pharm. 2013 Feb 15;70(4):320-34. doi: 10.2146/ajhp110381.

Insulin analogs for the management of type 2 diabetes.

Taylor JR(1), Campbell KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy and Translational Research, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA. jtaylor@cop.ufl.edu

PURPOSE: Evolving practice recommendations on the use of insulin analogs versus 
other forms of insulin therapy in adults with type 2 diabetes are reviewed, with 
an emphasis on supporting evidence from practice guidelines and clinical trials 
published over the last six years.
SUMMARY: Current consensus guidelines call for aggressive pharmacotherapy to 
attain specific glycosylated hemoglobin (HbA(1c)) targets as a means of reducing 
the risk of macrovascular events (e.g., myocardial infarction, stroke, 
cardiovascular [CV] death) and the tailoring of HbA(1c)-lowering regimens 
according to patient-specific factors such as the duration of diabetes, life 
expectancy, and comorbid conditions. Joint guidelines issued in 2009 by two 
leading organizations of endocrinology specialists recommend the use of insulin 
analogs (e.g., detemir, glargine) versus neutral protamine Hagedorn insulin, 
citing a more predictable time course and a lower potential for hypoglycemia; 
growing evidence indicates that the use of insulin analogs may offer other 
advantages such as enhanced dosing flexibility (with the possibility of 
self-titration by some patients) and less weight gain. Some evidence from trials 
published since 2007 indicates that early or intensive insulin analog therapy 
and very aggressive glycemic goals (e.g., HbA(1c) of <6%) may be associated with 
an increased mortality risk, especially in patients with longstanding diabetes 
and major CV comorbidities. Ongoing research is expected to help elucidate the 
comparative merits of intensive and standard HbA(1c)-lowering regimens and 
optimal strategies for individualized treatment of diabetic and prediabetic 
patients.
CONCLUSION: Published evidence suggests that insulin analogs may ofer advantages 
over other insulins as part of individualized pharmacotherapy regimens for 
appropriately selected patients with type 2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.2146/ajhp110381
PMID: 23370139 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2012 Dec;32(6):426-34.

Health and economic impact of human papillomavirus 16 and 18 vaccination of 
preadolescent girls and cervical cancer screening of adult women in Peru.

Goldie SJ(1), Levin C, Mosqueira-Lovón NR, Ortendahl J, Kim J, O'Shea M, Diaz 
Sanchez M, Mendoza Araujo MA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
MA, USA. sue_goldie@harvard.edu

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the benefits, cost-effectiveness (i.e., value for money), 
and required financial costs (e.g., affordability) of adding human 
papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination to Peru's cervical cancer screening program.
METHODS: Evidence (e.g., coverage, delivery costs) from an HPV vaccination 
demonstration project conducted in Peru was combined with epidemiological data 
in an empirically calibrated mathematical model to assess screening (HPV DNA 
testing three to five times per lifetime) and HPV vaccination under different 
cost, coverage, and efficacy assumptions. Model outcomes included lifetime risk 
of cancer reduction, cancer cases averted, lives saved, average life expectancy 
gains, short-term financial costs, and discounted long-term economic costs.
RESULTS: Status quo low levels of screening (e.g., cytologic screening at 10.0% 
coverage) reduced lifetime risk of cervical cancer by 11.9%, compared to not 
screening. Adding vaccination of preadolescent girls at a coverage achieved in 
the demonstration program (82.0%) produced an additional 46.1% reduction, and 
would cost less than US$ 500 per year of life saved (YLS) at ~US$ 7/dose or ~US$ 
1 300 at ~US$ 20/dose. One year of vaccination was estimated to cost ~US$ 5 
million at ~US$ 5/dose or ~US$ 16 million at ~US$ 20/dose, including 
programmatic costs. Enhanced screening in adult women combined with 
preadolescent vaccination had incremental cost-effectiveness ratios lower than 
Peru's 2005 per capita gross domestic product (GDP; US$ 2 852, in 2009 US$), and 
would be considered cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Preadolescent HPV vaccination, followed by enhanced HPV DNA 
screening in adult women, could prevent two out of three cervical cancer deaths. 
Several strategies would be considered "good value" for resources invested, 
provided vaccine prices are low. While financial costs imply substantial 
immediate investments, the high-value payoff should motivate creative mechanisms 
for financing and scale-up of delivery programs.

PMID: 23370186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


198. Cell Cycle. 2013 Feb 15;12(4):555-78. doi: 10.4161/cc.23756. Epub 2013 Jan
31.

Xenohormetic and anti-aging activity of secoiridoid polyphenols present in extra 
virgin olive oil: a new family of gerosuppressant agents.

Menendez JA(1), Joven J, Aragonès G, Barrajón-Catalán E, Beltrán-Debón R, 
Borrás-Linares I, Camps J, Corominas-Faja B, Cufí S, Fernández-Arroyo S, 
Garcia-Heredia A, Hernández-Aguilera A, Herranz-López M, Jiménez-Sánchez C, 
López-Bonet E, Lozano-Sánchez J, Luciano-Mateo F, Martin-Castillo B, 
Martin-Paredero V, Pérez-Sánchez A, Oliveras-Ferraros C, Riera-Borrull M, 
Rodríguez-Gallego E, Quirantes-Piné R, Rull A, Tomás-Menor L, Vazquez-Martin A, 
Alonso-Villaverde C, Micol V, Segura-Carretero A.

Author information:
(1)Metabolism and Cancer Group, Translational Research Laboratory, Catalan 
Institute of Oncology, Girona, Spain. jmenendez@idibgi.org

Aging can be viewed as a quasi-programmed phenomenon driven by the 
overactivation of the nutrient-sensing mTOR gerogene. mTOR-driven aging can be 
triggered or accelerated by a decline or loss of responsiveness to activation of 
the energy-sensing protein AMPK, a critical gerosuppressor of mTOR. The 
occurrence of age-related diseases, therefore, reflects the synergistic 
interaction between our evolutionary path to sedentarism, which chronically 
increases a number of mTOR activating gero-promoters (e.g., food, growth 
factors, cytokines and insulin) and the "defective design" of central metabolic 
integrators such as mTOR and AMPK. Our laboratories at the Bioactive Food 
Component Platform in Spain have initiated a systematic approach to molecularly 
elucidate and clinically explore whether the "xenohormesis hypothesis," which 
states that stress-induced synthesis of plant polyphenols and many other 
phytochemicals provides an environmental chemical signature that upregulates 
stress-resistance pathways in plant consumers, can be explained in terms of the 
reactivity of the AMPK/mTOR-axis to so-called xenohormetins. Here, we explore 
the AMPK/mTOR-xenohormetic nature of complex polyphenols naturally present in 
extra virgin olive oil (EVOO), a pivotal component of the Mediterranean style 
diet that has been repeatedly associated with a reduction in age-related morbid 
conditions and longer life expectancy. Using crude EVOO phenolic extracts highly 
enriched in the secoiridoids oleuropein aglycon and decarboxymethyl oleuropein 
aglycon, we show for the first time that (1) the anticancer activity of EVOO 
secoiridoids is related to the activation of anti-aging/cellular stress-like 
gene signatures, including endoplasmic reticulum (ER) stress and the unfolded 
protein response, spermidine and polyamine metabolism, sirtuin-1 (SIRT1) and 
NRF2 signaling; (2) EVOO secoiridoids activate AMPK and suppress crucial genes 
involved in the Warburg effect and the self-renewal capacity of "immortal" 
cancer stem cells; (3) EVOO secoiridoids prevent age-related changes in the cell 
size, morphological heterogeneity, arrayed cell arrangement and 
senescence-associated β-galactosidase staining of normal diploid human 
fibroblasts at the end of their proliferative lifespans. EVOO secoiridoids, 
which provide an effective defense against plant attack by herbivores and 
pathogens, are bona fide xenohormetins that are able to activate the 
gerosuppressor AMPK and trigger numerous resveratrol-like anti-aging 
transcriptomic signatures. As such, EVOO secoiridoids constitute a new family of 
plant-produced gerosuppressant agents that molecularly "repair" the aimless (and 
harmful) AMPK/mTOR-driven quasi-program that leads to aging and aging-related 
diseases, including cancer.

DOI: 10.4161/cc.23756
PMCID: PMC3594257
PMID: 23370395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Internist (Berl). 2013 Feb;54(2):147-8, 150-2, 154. doi: 
10.1007/s00108-012-3157-8.

[Personalized therapy in cardiology. Biomarkers, pharmacogenetics and therapy of 
monogenic diseases].

[Article in German]

Eschenhagen T(1), Blankenberg S.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Experimentelle Pharmakologie und Toxikologie, 
Universitätsklinikum Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistr. 52, 20246, Hamburg. 
t.eschenhagen@uke.de.

Improved therapy and prophylaxis of cardiovascular diseases have contributed to 
an increase in life expectancy like no other field of medicine. However, many 
cardiological diseases remain untreatable and standard therapies often work only 
in a minority of patients or cause more harm than benefit. Personalized 
approaches appear to be a promising solution. Monogenic heart diseases are 
paradigmatic for this approach and can in rare cases be treated mutation 
specifically. Overall, however, success remains limited. Next generation 
sequencing will facilitate the identification of mutations causing diseases. 
Cell culture models based on induced pluripotent stem cells open the perspective 
of individualized testing of disease severity and pharmacological or genetic 
therapy. In contrast to monogenic diseases genetic testing plays no practical 
role yet in the management of multifactorial cardiovascular diseases. Biomarkers 
can identify individuals with increased cardiovascular risk. Furthermore, 
biomarker-guided therapy represents an attractive option with troponin-guided 
therapy of acute coronary syndromes as a successful example. Individual 
responses to drugs vary and are partly determined by genes. Simple genetic 
analyses can improve response prediction and minimize side effects in cases such 
as warfarin and high doses of simvastatin. Taken together personalized 
approaches will gain importance in the cardiovascular field but this requires 
the development of better methods and research that quantifies the true value of 
the new knowledge.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-012-3157-8
PMID: 23371262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Osteoporos Int. 2013 Aug;24(8):2291-300. doi: 10.1007/s00198-013-2272-2.
Epub  2013 Feb 1.

Cost-effectiveness of strontium ranelate in the treatment of male osteoporosis.

Hiligsmann M(1), Ben Sedrine W, Bruyère O, Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, School for Public Health and Primary 
Care (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
m.hiligsmann@maastrichtuniversity.nl

The results of this study suggest that, under the assumption of same relative 
risk reduction of fractures in men as for women, strontium ranelate could be 
considered a cost-effective strategy compared with no treatment for the 
treatment of osteoporotic men from a Belgian healthcare payer perspective.
INTRODUCTION: This study was conducted to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
strontium ranelate in the treatment of osteoporotic men.
METHODS: A previously validated Markov microsimulation model was adapted to 
estimate the cost (<euro>2,010) per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained of 
strontium ranelate compared with no treatment. Similar efficacy data on lumbar 
spine and femoral neck bone mineral density (BMD) between men with osteoporosis 
at high risk of fracture (MALEO Trial) and postmenopausal osteoporotic women 
(pivotal SOTI, TROPOS trials) supports the assumption, in the base-case 
analysis, of the same relative risk reduction of fractures in men as for women. 
Analyses were conducted, from a Belgian healthcare payer perspective, in the 
population from the MALEO Trial who is a men population with a mean age of 73 
years, and BMD T-score ≤-2.5 or prevalent vertebral fracture (PVF).
RESULTS: In the MALEO population, strontium ranelate compared with no treatment 
was estimated at <euro>49,798 and <euro>25,584 per QALY gained using efficacy 
data from the intent-to-treat analysis and the per-protocol analysis including 
only adherent patients, respectively. In men with a BMD T-score ≤-2.5 or with 
PVF, the cost per QALY gained of strontium ranelate fall below thresholds of 
<euro>45,000 and <euro>25,000 per QALY gained based on efficacy data from the 
entire population of the clinical trial and from the per-protocol analyses, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that, under the assumption of 
same relative risk reduction of fractures in men as for women, strontium 
ranelate could be considered cost-effective compared with no treatment for male 
osteoporosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-013-2272-2
PMCID: PMC3706715
PMID: 23371359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Indian J Psychiatry. 2012 Oct;54(4):333-6. doi: 10.4103/0019-5545.104819.

Study of behavioral problems in multi-transfused thalassemic children.

Hongally C(1), Benakappa AD, Reena S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Bangalore Medical College and Research Institute, 
Victoria Hospital, Bangalore, Karnataka, India.

BACKGROUND: Beta-thalassemia major is a chronic disorder of blood, having an 
extensive impact on the affected child. It involves lifelong therapeutic regime, 
with repeated blood transfusions. With improved life expectancy, due to improved 
medical management psychosocial aspects of thalassemia are gaining importance.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the behavioral problems in multi-transfused thalassemic 
children and psychosocial factors affecting them.
SETTING: The study was conducted in a tertiary care level hospital and research 
institute catering mainly to a population of low socioeconomic status.
DESIGN: The study was a cross-sectional study involving 50 multi-transfused 
thalassemic children of age 5-10 years.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty multi-transfused thalassemic children, aged 5-10 
years, not suffering from any other major medical illness, were included. Child 
Behavior Check List (Achenbach) (CBCL) was used to collect data from each parent 
regarding the child's behavior. Parental Attitude Scale (Rangaswamy 1989) was 
applied. Descriptive statistical analysis was used with analysis of variance 
(ANOVA) and Student's t test to find the significance of data.
RESULTS: The CBCL total scores were high in 32% patients, indicating the 
presence of behavioral problems. Higher CBCL scores were found in children of 
older age group, those with poor school performance, whose mothers' education 
was more than eighth standard, had history of death of thalassemic relative in 
family, greater duration of diagnosed illness, poor pre-transfusion hemoglobin 
level, and who had longer periods of school absenteeism.
CONCLUSIONS: Behavioral problems are common in multi-transfused thalassemic 
children. Early diagnosis and intervention of behavioral problems in these 
children would make them cope with thalassemia better.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-5545.104819
PMCID: PMC3554964
PMID: 23372235

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


202. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Jan 21;19(3):328-30. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v19.i3.328.

Alpha-fetoprotein: a controversial prognostic biomarker for small hepatocellular 
carcinoma.

Asrih M(1), Lenglet S, Mach F, Montecucco F.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Division, Department of Medicine, Geneva University Hospital, 
Foundation for Medical Research, 1211 Geneva, Switzerland.

The assessment of the prognosis in patients with early hepatocellular carcinoma 
represents a hot-topic issue that requires further improvements and 
clarifications. The life expectancy of the patients has been shown to depend on 
several clinical and histological parameters (such as patient's general 
conditions, macroscopic tumor morphology and histopathology). Recently, the 
prognostic role of some biomarkers [i.e., alpha-fetoprotein (AFP)] has been also 
investigated with controversial findings mainly on the assessment of patient 
survival. The study by Giannini et al failed to show a prognostic value of AFP 
on survival of patients with well-compensated cirrhosis and small hepatocellular 
carcinoma. Since the study presents some limitations, a larger clinical trial is 
needed to clarify the potential prognostic role of serum AFP levels in these 
patients.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i3.328
PMCID: PMC3554815
PMID: 23372353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Front Genet. 2013 Jan 28;3:328. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2012.00328. eCollection
2012.

Premature and accelerated aging: HIV or HAART?

Smith RL(1), de Boer R, Brul S, Budovskaya Y, van Spek H.

Author information:
(1)Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences, University of Amsterdam Amsterdam, 
Netherlands.

Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has significantly increased life 
expectancy of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive population. 
Nevertheless, the average lifespan of HIV-patients remains shorter compared to 
uninfected individuals. Immunosenescence, a current explanation for this 
difference invokes heavily on viral stimulus despite HAART efficiency in viral 
suppression. We propose here that the premature and accelerated aging of 
HIV-patients can also be caused by adverse effects of antiretroviral drugs, 
specifically those that affect the mitochondria. The nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor (NRTI) antiretroviral drug class for instance, is known 
to cause depletion of mitochondrial DNA via inhibition of the mitochondrial 
specific DNA polymerase-γ. Besides NRTIs, other antiretroviral drug classes such 
as protease inhibitors also cause severe mitochondrial damage by increasing 
oxidative stress and diminishing mitochondrial function. We also discuss 
important areas for future research and argue in favor of the use of 
Caenorhabditis elegans as a novel model system for studying these effects.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2012.00328
PMCID: PMC3556597
PMID: 23372574


204. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e55176. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055176. Epub 2013 Jan
25.

Excess mortality, causes of death and life expectancy in 270,770 patients with 
recent onset of mental disorders in Denmark, Finland and Sweden.

Nordentoft M(1), Wahlbeck K, Hällgren J, Westman J, Osby U, Alinaghizadeh H, 
Gissler M, Laursen TM.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric Centre Copenhagen, University of Copenhagen, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Copenhagen, Denmark. mn@dadlnet.dk

BACKGROUND: Excess mortality among patients with severe mental disorders has not 
previously been investigated in detail in large complete national populations.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the excess mortality in different diagnostic 
categories due to suicide and other external causes of death, and due to 
specific causes in connection with diseases and medical conditions.
METHODS: In longitudinal national psychiatric case registers from Denmark, 
Finland, and Sweden, a cohort of 270,770 recent-onset patients, who at least 
once during the period 2000 to 2006 were admitted due to a psychiatric disorder, 
were followed until death or the end of 2006. They were followed for 912,279 
person years, and 28,088 deaths were analyzed. Life expectancy and standardized 
cause-specific mortality rates were estimated in each diagnostic group in all 
three countries.
RESULTS: The life expectancy was generally approximately 15 years shorter for 
women and 20 years shorter for men, compared to the general population. 
Mortality due to diseases and medical conditions was increased two- to 
three-fold, while excess mortality from external causes ranged from three- to 
77-fold. Mortality due to diseases and medical conditions was generally lowest 
in patients with affective disorders and highest in patients with substance 
abuse and personality disorders, while mortality due to suicide was highest in 
patients with affective disorders and personality disorders, and mortality due 
to other external causes was highest in patients with substance abuse.
CONCLUSIONS: These alarming figures call for action in order to prevent the high 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055176
PMCID: PMC3555866
PMID: 23372832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


205. J Neurol Surg B Skull Base. 2012 Feb;73(1):54-63. doi:
10.1055/s-0032-1304557.

Subtemporal transtentorial petrosalapex approach for giant petroclival 
meningiomas: analyzation and evaluation of the clinical application.

Yang J(1), Liu YH, Ma SC, Wei L, Lin RS, Qi JF, Hu YS, Yu CJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Fuxing Hospital, Capital University of Medical 
Sciences, The Third Neurosurgical Department of Capital University of Medical 
Science, Beijing;

With the advent of microsurgery and surgical techniques, along with the 
improvement in neuroimaging techniques and the microanatomy in cadaver study, 
improvement in terms of surgical morbidity and mortality has been remarkable; 
however, controversy still exists regarding the optimal surgical strategies for 
giant petroclival meningiomas (GPMs). We report a study of clinical and 
radiological features as well as the surgical findings and outcomes for patients 
with GPM treated at our institution over the past 6 years. During a 6-year 
period (April 2004 to March 2010), 16 patients with GPM underwent surgery by 
subtemporal transtentorial petrosal apex approach during which 
electrophysiological monitoring of cranial nerves and brainstem function were 
reviewed. There were nine females and seven males with a mean age of 56.9 years 
(range from 32 to 78 years). The most frequent clinical manifestations were 
headache (93.7%) and dizziness (93.7%). Regions and directions of tumor 
extension include clivus, parasellar, and cavernous sinus, as well as 
compression of brainstem, and so on. The trochlear nerve was totally wrapped in 
nine cases (56.2%). The postoperative Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS) score 
was 76.3 ± 13.1. Mean maximum diameter of the tumors on magnetic resonance 
imaging was 5.23 cm (range, 4.5 to 6.2 cm). Subtemporal transtentorial 
petrosalapex approach was performed in all 16 cases. Gross total resection was 
achieved in 14 cases (87.5%) and subtotal resection in 2 cases (12.5%) with no 
resultant mortality. Follow-up data were available for all 16 patients, with a 
mean follow-up period of 28.8 months (range from 4 to 69 months), of which 11 
(68.75%) lived a normal life (KPS, 80-100). Our suggestion is that GPM could be 
completely resected by subtemporal transtentorial petrosalapex approach. The 
surgical strategy of GPM should be focused on survival and postoperative quality 
of life. Microneurosurgical technique plays a key role in tumor resection and 
preservation of nerve function. Intraoperative electrophysiological monitoring 
also contributes dramatically to the preservation of the nerve function. 
Complete resection of the tumor should be attempted at the first operation. Any 
remnant is treated by radiosurgery.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1304557
PMCID: PMC3424020
PMID: 23372996


206. Anal Chem. 2013 Mar 5;85(5):2731-8. doi: 10.1021/ac303203y. Epub 2013 Feb
19.

Differential enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay and ligand-binding mass 
spectrometry for analysis of biotransformation of protein therapeutics: 
application to various FGF21 modalities.

Hager T(1), Spahr C, Xu J, Salimi-Moosavi H, Hall M.

Author information:
(1)PKDM, Amgen Inc., Thousand Oaks, California 91320, United States.

Novel protein therapeutics have become increasingly important modalities for 
treating diseases. Such therapeutics include recombinant fusions of 
pharmacoactive polypeptides to half-life extenders such as monoclonal 
antibodies, fragments of antibodies, and albumin. Half-life extension can also 
be achieved via chemical attachment to polymers such as polyethylene glycol. Any 
of these therapeutics may be susceptible to biotransformation, most notably in 
vivo proteolytic truncation, and it is vital to understand this phenomenon 
during early drug development to ensure correct pharmacokinetic profiling and 
optimize the in vivo stability through re-engineering. In this paper, we 
describe an integrated approach that combines differential enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay (ELISA) with ligand-binding-mass spectrometry (LB-MS) to 
provide a thorough understanding of the biotransformation of novel protein 
therapeutics. Differential ELISA allows for a fast, high-throughput means to 
reveal gross in vivo proteolytic liabilities. Ensuing LB-MS analysis provides 
higher resolution details such as specific vulnerable loci to allow design 
refinement of the molecule. In this work, the power of the approach is 
elucidated by application to the optimization of a promising drug candidate, 
FGF21.

DOI: 10.1021/ac303203y
PMID: 23373459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Artif Life. 2014 Winter;20(1):127-41. doi: 10.1162/ARTL_a_00100. Epub 2013
Feb  1.

Formalization, implementation, and modeling of institutional controllers for 
distributed robotic systems.

Pereira JN(1), Silva P, Lima PU, Martinoli A.

Author information:
(1)EPFL, Instituto Superior Técnico.

The work described is part of a long term program of introducing institutional 
robotics, a novel framework for the coordination of robot teams that stems from 
institutional economics concepts. Under the framework, institutions are 
cumulative sets of persistent artificial modifications made to the environment 
or to the internal mechanisms of a subset of agents, thought to be functional 
for the collective order. In this article we introduce a formal model of 
institutional controllers based on Petri nets. We define executable Petri 
nets-an extension of Petri nets that takes into account robot actions and 
sensing-to design, program, and execute institutional controllers. We use a 
generalized stochastic Petri net view of the robot team controlled by the 
institutional controllers to model and analyze the stochastic performance of the 
resulting distributed robotic system. The ability of our formalism to replicate 
results obtained using other approaches is assessed through realistic 
simulations of up to 40 e-puck robots. In particular, we model a robot swarm and 
its institutional controller with the goal of maintaining wireless connectivity, 
and successfully compare our model predictions and simulation results with 
previously reported results, obtained by using finite state automaton models and 
controllers.

DOI: 10.1162/ARTL_a_00100
PMID: 23373975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2013 Feb;14(3):269-77. doi: 
10.1517/14656566.2013.767331.

Buprenorphine transdermal system and quality of life in opioid-experienced 
patients with chronic low back pain.

Miller K(1), Yarlas A, Wen W, Dain B, Lynch SY, Brennan MJ, Ripa SR.

Author information:
(1)QualityMetric, Inc./OptumInsight, 24 Albion Road, Building 400, Lincoln, RI 
02865, USA. kmiller@qualitymetric.com

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the impact of 12 weeks of treatment with Butrans® 
(buprenorphine) transdermal system (BTDS) on the health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) for patients with chronic low back pain (CLBP), and the maintenance of 
effects over 52 weeks.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A multicenter, enriched, double-blind (DB), 
randomized trial comparing BTDS 20 μg/h (BTDS 20) against 5 μg/h (BTDS 5) for 
treatment of opioid-experienced patients with moderate-to-severe CLBP, including 
a 52-week open-label (OL) extension phase.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: QoL was measured with the SF-36v2 survey before and after 
an OL run-in period with BTDS 20, three times during the DB phase, and seven 
times over the extension phase. This post hoc analysis tested for SF-36v2 score 
differences between treatment groups during the DB phase and maintenance of 
effects over the extension phase.
RESULTS: At 12 weeks, BTDS 20 produced larger improvements than BTDS 5 in role 
limitations due to physical health, bodily pain and overall physical QoL (p < 
0.01). Treatment group differences in overall physical QoL were sustained 
throughout the DB phase. Quality-of-life improvements associated with BTDS 20 
persisted through the extension phase.
CONCLUSIONS: These data suggest that opioid-experienced moderate-to-severe CLBP 
patients receiving BTDS 20 exhibited better QoL than patients receiving BTDS 5.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2013.767331
PMID: 23374027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Telemed J E Health. 2013 Feb;19(2):110-6. doi: 10.1089/tmj.2012.0081. Epub
2013  Feb 1.

Cost-effectiveness of a novel e-health depression service.

Naveršnik K(1), Mrhar A.

Author information:
(1)Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d., Ljubljana, Slovenia. klemen.naversnik@gmail.com

OBJECTIVES: A recent trial assessed feasibility of an e-health service (" 
Improvehealth.eu ") to support depression care and reported positive outcomes. 
Our objective was to examine cost-effectiveness of the Improvehealth.eu service. 
A baseline model was used to evaluate cost and effects of the intervention. 
Given the high uncertainty in the input space, a series of alternative scenarios 
were evaluated to challenge the result. The aim was to find if conservative or 
even pessimistic estimates and assumptions could result in a change of the 
cost-effectiveness from the baseline model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A probabilistic depression model combined with 
bootstrapping was built and populated with data from the literature and from the 
pilot efficacy trial of the e-health service. The core of the model was a 
stochastic mapping function that translated depression-specific outcomes to 
quality-adjusted life years. Correlated sampling was used to obtain unbiased and 
consistent piecewise linear transformation of Beck Depression Inventory scores 
to utilities. The results are shown as cost-effectiveness acceptability curves 
with value of information data. An extreme scenario analysis was then performed 
to deal with parameter, structural, and modeling uncertainty.
RESULTS: Cost-effectiveness of the e-health service was favorable because of low 
cost and high efficacy of the intervention. Apart from the most pessimistic one, 
none of the 13 alternative scenarios changed the preferred alternative.
CONCLUSIONS: Improvehealth.eu is cost-effective relative to usual care, given 
the available efficacy data. Results of the health economic evaluation were 
robust to alternative assumptions, despite considerable uncertainty in input 
data.

DOI: 10.1089/tmj.2012.0081
PMID: 23374036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Br J Dermatol. 2013 May;168(5):1095-105. doi: 10.1111/bjd.12261.

Topical therapies for the treatment of localized plaque psoriasis in primary 
care: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Sawyer L(1), Samarasekera EJ, Wonderling D, Smith CH.

Author information:
(1)Symmetron Limited, Kinetic Centre, Theobald Street, Borehamwood, 
Hertfordshire, WD6 4PJ, UK. lsawyer@symmetron.net

BACKGROUND: Topical therapies are a mainstay of psoriasis treatment, but they 
vary substantially in terms of cost.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the cost-effectiveness and optimal treatment sequence 
for psoriasis of the trunk, limbs and scalp.
METHODS: Probabilities of response from a network meta-analysis were used to 
determine the short-term efficacy of topical therapies. Longer-term outcomes, 
including relapse, were informed by published evidence and clinical opinion. 
Benefits of treatment were measured as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). 
Direct costs included topical agents, primary and secondary care visits and 
second-line therapies for treatment failures.
RESULTS: For the trunk and limbs, initial treatment with a two-compound 
formulation (TCF) product containing vitamin D and potent corticosteroid 
provided the most QALYs, followed by separate morning and evening application of 
vitamin D and potent corticosteroid [two-compound application, TCA (am/pm)], and 
then twice-daily potent corticosteroids. The use of twice-daily potent 
corticosteroids was the most cost-effective first-line strategy (incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio £ 20,000 per QALY), followed by TCA (am/pm) (£ 22,658 
per QALY) and TCF product (£ 179,439 per QALY). For scalp psoriasis, initial 
treatment with very potent corticosteroids generated the most QALYs, followed by 
TCF product and then potent corticosteroids. Very potent corticosteroids were 
the most cost-effective treatment but, if too aggressive, potent corticosteroids 
were optimal followed by TCF product (£ 219,846 per QALY). The 
cost-effectiveness of second- and third-line topical agents varied with the 
assumptions made.
CONCLUSIONS: Potent corticosteroids, used alone or in combination with vitamin 
D, are the most cost-effective treatment for patients with psoriasis of the 
trunk and limbs. Potent or very potent corticosteroids are the most 
cost-effective treatment for patients with scalp psoriasis.

© 2013 The Authors BJD © 2013 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.12261
PMID: 23374249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. HPB (Oxford). 2013 Mar;15(3):182-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1477-2574.2012.00524.x.
Epub  2012 Jul 4.

Is liver transplantation using organs donated after cardiac death cost-effective 
or does it decrease waitlist death by increasing recipient death?

Dageforde LA(1), Feurer ID, Pinson CW, Moore DE.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Surgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN 
37232-4753, USA.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness in 
liver transplantation (LT) of utilizing organs donated after cardiac death (DCD) 
compared with organs donated after brain death (DBD).
METHODS: A Markov-based decision analytic model was created to compare two LT 
waitlist strategies distinguished by organ type: (i) DBD organs only, and (ii) 
DBD and DCD organs. The model simulated outcomes for patients over 10 years with 
annual cycles through one of four health states: survival; ischaemic 
cholangiopathy; retransplantation, and death. Baseline values and ranges were 
determined from an extensive literature review. Sensitivity analyses tested 
model strength and parameter variability.
RESULTS: Overall survival is decreased, and biliary complications and 
retransplantation are increased in recipients of DCD livers. Recipients of DBD 
livers gained 5.6 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) at a cost of US$69 
000/QALY, whereas recipients on the DBD + DCD LT waitlist gained 6.0 QALYs at a 
cost of US$61 000/QALY. The DBD + DCD organ strategy was superior to the DBD 
organ-only strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: The extension of life and quality of life provided by DCD LT to 
patients on the waiting list who might otherwise not receive a liver transplant 
makes the continued use of DCD livers cost-effective.

© 2012 International Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1477-2574.2012.00524.x
PMCID: PMC3572278
PMID: 23374358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Lancet. 2013 Feb 23;381(9867):651-60. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61852-2.
Epub  2013 Jan 30.

Abluminal biodegradable polymer biolimus-eluting stent versus durable polymer 
everolimus-eluting stent (COMPARE II): a randomised, controlled, non-inferiority 
trial.

Smits PC(1), Hofma S, Togni M, Vázquez N, Valdés M, Voudris V, Slagboom T, Goy 
JJ, Vuillomenet A, Serra A, Nouche RT, den Heijer P, van der Ent M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Maasstad Ziekenhuis, Rotterdam, Netherlands. 
smitsp@maasstadziekenhuis.nl

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Feb 23;381(9867):607-9.
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2013 Apr;10(4):181.
    Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2013 Oct;11(10):1293-6.

BACKGROUND: Drug-eluting stents with durable biocompatible or biodegradable 
polymers have been developed to address the risk of thrombosis associated with 
first-generation drug-eluting stents. We aimed to compare the safety and 
efficacy of a biodegradable polymer-coated biolimus-eluting stent with a 
thin-strut everolimus-eluting stent coated with a durable biocompatible polymer.
METHODS: This open-label, prospective, randomised, controlled, non-inferiority 
trial was undertaken at 12 sites across Europe. We used limited exclusion 
criteria (age >18 years, life expectancy >5 years, reference vessel diameter 
2·0-4·0 mm) to enrol patients eligible for percutaneous coronary intervention. 
Patients were randomly allocated (2:1) by computer-generated random numbers to 
receive either a biodegradable polymer biolimus-eluting stent (Nobori, Terumo, 
Tokyo, Japan) or a durable fluoropolymer-based everolimus-eluting stent (Xience 
V or Prime, Abbott Vascular, Santa Clara, CA, USA, or Promus, Boston Scientific, 
Natick, MA, USA). The primary endpoint was a composite of safety (cardiac death 
and non-fatal myocardial infarction) and efficacy (clinically indicated target 
vessel revascularisation) at 12 months, analysed by intention to treat. Patients 
received dual antiplatelet therapy for 12 months after discharge. The trial is 
