cause of the bias, more awareness and scrutiny are needed when utilizing 
cost-effectiveness studies in decision making.

PMID: 23286609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Med Hypotheses. 2013 Mar;80(3):275-83. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2012.12.004. Epub
 2012 Dec 31.

Synergistic action of gravity and temperature on the motor system within the 
lifespan: a "Baby Astronaut" hypothesis.

Meigal AY(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human and Animal Physiology, Petrozavodsk State University, 
Lenin Street, 33, Petrozavodsk 185910, Republic of Karelia, Russia. 
meigal@petrsu.ru

Here we describe GATO (gravity, age, thermoregulation, and oxygenation) 
hypothesis (or a "Baby Astronaut" hypothesis) which we suggest to explain 
synergistic effect of these factors on the motor system. Taken separately, 
microgravity (in spaceflight, G~0), the early age, heat and hypoxia exert 
identical effect on the motor system. We posit that synergy of these factors 
originate from their synchronicity during intrauterine immersion (analog 
microgravity) of the fetus in warm hypoxic condition. We further postulate three 
successive motor adaptive strategies, driven lifelong by gravity as the key 
factor. The first by age, fetal/microgravity (FM)-strategy, induced by the 
intrauterine immersion of the fetus, is based on domination of fast type muscle 
fibers. After birth, thought to be analog for landing from orbit, newborn is 
subjected to combined influence of cooler ambient temperature, normoxia, and 1G 
Earth gravity, which cooperatively form a slower GE-strategy. Eventually, 
healthy ageing results in further domination of slow type muscle fibers that 
forms the slowest (SL)-strategy. Our hypothesis implies that specific sensory 
conditions may substitute for each other owing to their synergistic action on 
the motor system. According to GATO hypothesis heating and hypoxia may be 
considered as "pro-microgravity" factors, while cold and hyperoxia - as 
"pro-gravity" ones. As such, cold may act as a partial "surrogate" for gravity, 
estimated as ~0.2G. That may have potential to elaborate countermeasures for 
muscle atrophy in astronauts either on-board in long-term spaceflight or for 
post-flight rehabilitation. Based on GATO hypothesis, predictions on muscle 
remodeling caused by illumination, sound/noise, and gravidity are discussed.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2012.12.004
PMID: 23287049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Jan 15;177(2):126-8; discussion 129-30. doi: 
10.1093/aje/kws319. Epub 2013 Jan 3.

Invited commentary: Prevailing over acquired immune deficiency syndrome and 
depressive symptoms.

Coughlin SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Post-Deployment Health Epidemiology Program (10P3A), Office of Public Health, 
Department of Veterans Affairs, 810 Vermont Avenue, NW, Washington, DC 20420, 
USA. steven.coughlin@va.gov

Comment on
    Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Jan 15;177(2):116-25.

The causal and noncausal associations that account for linkages between 
depressive symptoms and human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immune 
deficiency syndrome are complex and not completely understood. Depression is a 
common mental health condition that affects approximately 20%-30% of persons 
receiving HIV medical care. Those suffering from depressive symptoms may be more 
apt to abuse alcohol or other substances and to have difficulties with adherence 
to treatment regimens over long periods of time. Persons living with HIV who are 
effectively treated for their depression are more likely to adhere to 
antiretroviral therapy over time and to enjoy better health and improved quality 
of life. The article by Wada et al. in this issue of the Journal (Am J 
Epidemiol. 2013;177(2):116-125) provides an important look at the long-term 
survival experiences of men and women who participated in 2 major epidemiologic 
studies of HIV and acquired immune deficiency syndrome. Long-term follow-up 
studies such as that by Wada et al. highlight not only the mortality experience 
of vulnerable groups of people but also their profound resiliency and ability to 
prevail over personal challenges, such as poverty and unemployment, and health 
conditions, such as HIV and depression.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kws319
PMID: 23287401 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Jan 15;177(2):116-25. doi: 10.1093/aje/kws321. Epub
2013  Jan 3.

Cause-specific life expectancies after 35 years of age for human 
immunodeficiency syndrome-infected and human immunodeficiency syndrome-negative 
individuals followed simultaneously in long-term cohort studies, 1984-2008.

Wada N(1), Jacobson LP, Cohen M, French A, Phair J, Muñoz A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
615 North Wolfe Street, Room E7648, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA. nwada@jhsph.edu

Comment in
    Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Jan 15;177(2):126-8; discussion 129-30.

Parametric and semiparametric competing risks methods were used to estimate 
proportions, timing, and predictors of acquired immune deficiency syndrome 
(AIDS)-related and non-AIDS-related mortality among individuals both positive 
and negative for the human immunodeficiency syndrome (HIV) in the Multicenter 
AIDS Cohort Study (MACS) and Women's Interagency HIV Study (WIHS) from 1984 to 
2008 and 1996 to 2008, respectively. Among HIV-positive MACS participants, the 
proportion of deaths unrelated to AIDS increased from 6% before the introduction 
of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) (before 1996) to 53% in the 
HAART era (P < 0.01); the median age of persons who died from non-AIDS-related 
causes after age 35 years increased from 49.0 to 66.0 years (P < 0.01). In both 
cohorts during the HAART era, median ages at time of non-AIDS-related death were 
younger for HIV-positive individuals than for comparable HIV-negative 
individuals (8.7 years younger in MACS (P < 0.01) and 7.6 years younger in WIHS 
(P < 0.01)). In a multivariate proportional cause-specific hazards model, 
unemployment (for non-AIDS death, hazard ratio (HR) = 1.8; for AIDS death, HR = 
2.3), depression (for non-AIDS death, HR = 1.4; for AIDS death, HR = 1.4), and 
hepatitis B or C infection (for non-AIDS death, HR = 1.8, for AIDS death; HR = 
1.4) were significantly (P < 0.05) associated with higher hazards of both 
non-AIDS and AIDS mortality among HIV-positive individuals in the HAART era, 
independent of study cohort. The results illuminate the changing face of 
mortality among the growing population infected with HIV.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kws321
PMCID: PMC3590031
PMID: 23287403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Pharmacol Res. 2013 Apr;70(1):35-40. doi: 10.1016/j.phrs.2012.12.006. Epub
2013  Jan 1.

Novel treatment options for epilepsy: focus on perampanel.

Franco V(1), Crema F, Iudice A, Zaccara G, Grillo E.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacology Unit, Department of Internal Medicine and Therapeutics, 
University of Pavia, Via Ferrata 9, 27100 Pavia, Italy. 
valentina.franco_v@libero.it

Perampanel is a new chemical entity recently approved in the United States (US) 
and European Union (EU) as adjunctive treatment of partial-onset seizures with 
and without secondary generalization in patients with epilepsy aged 12 years and 
older. Pharmacological studies suggest that perampanel acts with a new mechanism 
of action via non-competitive antagonism of the ionotropic 
α-amino-3-hydroxy-5-methyl-4-isoxazoleproprionic acid (AMPA) receptor of 
glutamate, the main mediator of excitatory neurotransmission in the central 
nervous system. Perampanel is completely absorbed after oral administration. The 
drug is 95% bound to plasma proteins and is extensively metabolized by oxidation 
followed by glucuronidation. Perampanel has an elimination half-life of 
approximately 52-129h, allowing once daily dosing, with peak plasma levels 
observed 0.25-2h post-dose. Randomized placebo-controlled trials of adjunctive 
treatment have demonstrated that once-daily perampanel doses of 4-12mg/day 
significantly reduced partial-onset seizure frequency in patients with 
pharmacoresistant epilepsy along with a favorable tolerability profile. In 
perampanel pivotal trials, the most frequently reported treatment emergent 
adverse events (>10%) included dizziness, somnolence, fatigue and headache. 
Perampanel therapeutic response was maintained in patients included in the long 
term open-label extension studies for up to 4 years. Based on these data, 
perampanel offers a valuable option in the add-on treatment of partial-onset and 
secondarily generalized seizures.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.phrs.2012.12.006
PMID: 23287426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. J Gen Intern Med. 2013 Mar;28(3):466-9. doi: 10.1007/s11606-012-2325-9. Epub
 2013 Jan 4.

The Hennepin County Medical Center Program in medical psychiatry: addressing the 
shortened lifespan of patients with mental illness.

Linzer M(1), Popkin MK, Coffey E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Hennepin County Medical Center, Minneapolis, MN, USA. 
Mark.linzer@hcmed.org

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-012-2325-9
PMCID: PMC3579962
PMID: 23288381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Trop Med Int Health. 2013 Mar;18(3):328-43. doi: 10.1111/tmi.12041. Epub
2013  Jan 4.

Adaptation of a general primary care package for HIV-infected adults to an HIV 
centre setting in Gaborone, Botswana.

Davis S(1), Patel P, Sheikh A, Anabwani G, Tolle MA.

Author information:
(1)Botswana-Baylor Children's Clinical Centre of Excellence, Gaborone, Botswana.

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy of HIV-infected patients improves due to 
antiretroviral treatment (ART) and the importance of associated co-morbidities 
and chronic diseases increases, preventive care will become increasingly 
important. Adaptation of existing preventive guidelines to local environments 
will become a priority for HIV treatment programmes.
METHODS: Guidance from the World Health Organization, a focused evidenced-based 
literature review, Botswana national guidelines, Botswana-specific morbidity and 
mortality data and centre-specific data were used to adapt a published general 
primary care package for limited-resource areas to our centre's specific 
setting.
RESULTS: The preventive care package contains recommendations on tuberculosis 
prevention, malnutrition, depression, cervical and breast cancer, hepatitis B 
coinfection, cardiovascular risk factors, external injury prevention, domestic 
violence screening, tobacco and substance-abuse counselling, contraception and 
screening and treatment of sexually transmitted infections.
CONCLUSION: This preventive care package addresses the comprehensive health 
needs of HIV-infected adults in the FMC in an evidence-based manner. The process 
of combining clinic-specific prevalence data, national guidelines, regional 
literature and assessment of public-sector resources to adapt an existing 
general package could be utilised to develop similar guidelines in other 
resource-limited locales.

© 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tmi.12041
PMID: 23289364 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Urology. 2013 Mar;81(3):491-7. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2012.11.010. Epub 2013
Jan  3.

Long-term efficacy and safety of onabotulinumtoxinA in patients with urinary 
incontinence due to neurogenic detrusor overactivity: an interim analysis.

Kennelly M(1), Dmochowski R, Ethans K, Karsenty G, Schulte-Baukloh H, Jenkins B, 
Thompson C, Li D, Haag-Molkenteller C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Carolinas Rehabilitation, 1100 Blythe Boulevard, 
Charlotte, NC 28203, USA. Michael.Kennelly@carolinashealthcare.org

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term efficacy and safety of repeat 
onabotulinumtoxinA injections in patients inadequately managed by 
anticholinergics for urinary incontinence (UI) due to neurogenic detrusor 
overactivity.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients who completed either of 2 preceding phase III 
studies were offered entry into an extension study and received repeat 
onabotulinumtoxinA 200 U or 300 U. The data were integrated across the phase III 
and ongoing extension studies. The present interim analysis included all 
patients who received ≥ 1 onabotulinumtoxinA treatment. The data were analyzed 
by treatment cycle (cycles 1-5). The primary assessment was the change from 
baseline in UI episodes/wk at 6 weeks after each treatment. Additional 
assessments included ≥ 50% and 100% reductions in UI episodes, volume/void, 
Incontinence Quality of Life responses, and adverse events.
RESULTS: A total of 387, 336, 241, 113, and 46 patients received 1, 2, 3, 4, and 
5 onabotulinumtoxinA treatments, respectively. The UI episodes/wk were 
consistently reduced compared with baseline after repeated onabotulinumtoxinA 
treatment (-22.7, -23.3, -23.1, -25.3, and -31.9 for the 200-U 
onabotulinumtoxinA group in cycles 1-5). The proportion of patients reporting ≥ 
50% and 100% ("dry") reductions from baseline in UI episodes at week 6 ranged 
from 73%-94% and 36%-55%, respectively. Increases in the mean volume/void (mean 
increase >130 mL) and improvements in quality of life were also observed after 
repeat treatment. The most common adverse events were urinary tract infections 
and urinary retention, with no change in the adverse event profile over time.
CONCLUSION: The results of our study have shown that repeated onabotulinumtoxinA 
treatments provide sustained reductions in UI episodes and increases in the 
volume/void and quality of life in patients with neurogenic detrusor 
overactivity and UI who were inadequately managed by anticholinergics, with no 
new safety signals.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2012.11.010
PMID: 23290144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Sep;33(9):912-6.

[Cost-utility analysis of comprehensive intervention on epilepsy].

[Article in Chinese]

Chang L(1), Chang J, Feng SX, Zhou G.

Author information:
(1)Henan Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Zhengzhou 450000, 
China. sinary007@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To discuss the cost-utility regarding the effect of comprehensive 
intervention program on epilepsy.
METHODS: 874 cases with epilepsy were investigated in 9 pilot sites in Henan 
province. Cost of epilepsy comprehensive intervention was calculated based on 
the research projects of epilepsy prevention and management of rural areas. 
Disability-adjusted life year (DALY) and quality adjusted life year (QALY) were 
used as utility index for cost-utility analysis.
RESULTS: Of the 874 cases, 8.58 DALY was lost and 27.95 QALY was obtained per 
capita in the intervention group (422 cases). The costs per QALY and DALY 
obtained were 2454.10 and 7995.40 Yuan, respectively. Relative to the 
non-intervention control group (452 cases), the costs for QALY obtained by the 
intervention group had reduced. The investment would reduce 21 735.10 Yuan when 
each additional DALY was saved.
CONCLUSION: Epilepsy caused serious economic burden to the society, families and 
the patients themselves. Comprehensive intervention program could reduce the 
economic burden of the disease thus yielding high cost-benefit. This program was 
deserved to be promoted.

PMID: 23290801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Res Dev Disabil. 2013 Mar;34(3):910-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ridd.2012.11.019. Epub
 2013 Jan 2.

Comparison of population pyramid and demographic characteristics between people 
with an intellectual disability and the general population.

Yen CF(1), Lin JD, Chiu TY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Tzu-Chi University, Hualien City, Taiwan.

The purposes of this study were to measure disparities of age structure between 
people with an intellectual disability and general population, and to explore 
the difference of demographic characteristics between these two populations by 
using data from a population based register in Taiwan. Data were analyzed by 
SPSS 20.0 statistical software. Results found that the gender and mean age were 
significantly different between people with an intellectual disability and 
general population (mean age: 28.86 years vs. 35.26 years; p<0.001). The shape 
of the pyramid in general population tended to be fatty in the middle age, and 
intellectual disability population was more populous in the younger age. 
Furthermore, there were very few people with an intellectual disability can live 
more than 65 years old (3%) while there were nearly 10% of the general 
population were the elderly. The results also showed that two groups were 
different in marital status, educational levels, family status of veteran and 
aborigine (p<0.001). As the premature aging and short life span of people with 
an intellectual disability, this study suggested that the government authority 
should initiate necessary assistance for this group of people in the future.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ridd.2012.11.019
PMID: 23291507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. J Neurosci Nurs. 2013 Feb;45(1):5-13. doi: 10.1097/JNN.0b013e318275b1b2.

Neurological complications associated with HIV and AIDS: clinical implications 
for nursing.

Theroux N, Phipps M, Zimmerman L, Relf MV.

This article provides a clinical nursing update on major neurological 
complications associated with HIV and AIDS. Life expectancy for those with AIDS 
has increased as a consequence of antiretroviral therapy, and thus, neurological 
complications remain a clinical challenge. Four significant diseases associated 
with HIV and AIDS are addressed: HIV-associated dementia, peripheral neuropathy, 
cryptococcal meningitis, and toxoplasmosis. Updated statistics, a review of 
pathophysiology, common manifestations, diagnostic tests, and standard 
treatments are discussed for each disease. Nursing considerations when caring 
for this population are reviewed and include assessment, safety, activities of 
daily living, pain management, and treatment adherence.

DOI: 10.1097/JNN.0b013e318275b1b2
PMID: 23291867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. J Trop Pediatr. 2013 Jun;59(3):246-9. doi: 10.1093/tropej/fms073. Epub 2013
Jan  4.

Fatal Streptococcus melleri meningitis complicating missed infected 
intramedullary dermoid cyst secondary to dermal sinus in a Saudi child.

Bukhari EE(1), Alotibi FE.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Department, Infectious Disease Division, King Khalid University 
Hospital, King Saud University, Riyadh, Kingdom of Saudi Arabia 11461. 
ebukhari@ksu.edu.sa

A spinal intramedullary abscess secondary to an infected dermoid cyst is rare, 
and it has a poor prognosis, unless diagnosed and treated promptly. We report a 
12-month-old patient with a spinal intramedullary abscess with secondary to a 
dermoid cyst resulting from a dermal sinus, despite a clearly defined opening at 
the lower back with discharge of a purulent material from a dermal sinus tract 
seen on the lower back before the patient had become symptomatic and showed 
meningeal signs. The patient was managed as a case of meningitis until he had 
complications that endangered his life, and then further radiological evaluation 
was done to delineate the underlying pathology. This case illustrates the 
importance of the recognition and evaluation of skin markers because of the 
potential for intradural extension and a frequent association with other 
dysraphic abnormalities. It also emphasizes the importance of early diagnosis 
and treatment of spinal intramedullary abscess.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/fms073
PMID: 23292742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Am J Perinatol. 2013 Jan;30(1):11-20. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1333206. Epub 2013
Jan  4.

Cost-effectiveness of trial of labor after previous cesarean in a minimally 
biased cohort.

Gilbert SA(1), Grobman WA, Landon MB, Spong CY, Rouse DJ, Leveno KJ, Varner MW, 
Wapner RJ, Sorokin Y, O'Sullivan MJ, Sibai BM, Thorp JM, Ramin SM, Mercer BM; 
Eunice Kennedy Shriver National Institute of Child Health and Human Development 
Maternal-Fetal Medicine Units Network.

Collaborators: Thom E, Juliussen-Stevenson H, Fischer M, Leuchtenburg L, 
Peaceman A, Socol M, Gradishar D, Mallett G, Iams J, Johnson F, Meadows S, 
Walker H, Hauth J, Northen N, Tate S, Bloom S, Gold J, Bradford D, Belfort M, 
Porter F, Oshiro B, Anderson K, Guzman A, Caritis S, Lain K, Cotroneo M, Fischer 
D, Luce M, Meis P, Harper M, Swain M, Moorefield C, Lanier K, Steele L, 
Sciscione A, DiVito M, Talucci M, Pollock M, Dombrowski M, Norman G, Millinder 
A, Sudz C, Steffy B, Miodovnik M, Siddiqi T, How H, Elder N, Miodovnik M, Malone 
F, D'Alton V, Pemberton V, Carmona V, Husami H, Carpenter M, Silver H, 
Tillinghast J, Catlow D, Allard D, Burkett G, Gilles J, Potter J, Doyle F, 
Chandler S, Mabie W, Ramsey R, Langer O, Conway D, Barker S, Rodriguez M, Moise 
K, Dorman K, Brody S, Mitchell J, Gilstrap L, Day M, Kerr M, Gildersleeve E, 
Catalano P, Milluzzi C, Slivers B, Santori C, Moawad A, Hibbard J, Jones P, 
Ramos-Brinson M, Moran M, Scott D, McNellis D, Howell K, Tolivaisa S, Gabbe S.

Author information:
(1)The George Washington University Biostatistics Center, Washington, District 
of Columbia, USA. sgilbert@bsc.gwu.edu

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of a trial of labor after one 
previous cesarean delivery (TOLAC).
STUDY DESIGN: A model comparing TOLAC with elective repeat cesarean delivery 
(ERCD) was developed for a hypothetical cohort with no contraindication to a 
TOLAC. Probabilistic estimates were obtained from women matched on their 
baseline characteristics using propensity scores. Cost data, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and data on cerebral palsy were incorporated from the 
literature.
RESULTS: The TOLAC strategy dominated the ERCD strategy at baseline, with $138.6 
million saved and 1703 QALYs gained per 100,000 women. The model was sensitive 
to five variables: the probability of uterine rupture, the probability of 
successful TOLAC, the QALY of failed TOLAC, the cost of ERCD, and the cost of 
successful TOLAC without complications. When the probability of TOLAC success 
was at the base value, 68.5%, TOLAC was preferred if the probability of uterine 
rupture was 4.2% or less. When the probability of uterine rupture was at the 
base value, 0.8%, the TOLAC strategy was preferred as long as the probability of 
success was 42.6% or more.
CONCLUSION: A TOLAC is less expensive and more effective than an ERCD in a group 
of women with balanced baseline characteristics.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1333206
PMCID: PMC4049080
PMID: 23292916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: None of the authors have a conflict 
of interest.


996. Mol Syndromol. 2012 Nov;3(5):215-22. doi: 10.1159/000343923. Epub 2012 Nov
9.

Mutational spectrum of smith-lemli-opitz syndrome patients in hungary.

Balogh I(1), Koczok K, Szabó GP, Török O, Hadzsiev K, Csábi G, Balogh L, 
Dzsudzsák E, Ajzner E, Szabó L, Csákváry V, Oláh AV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Debrecen, Debrecen, Hungary.

Smith-Lemli-Opitz (SLO) syndrome is an autosomal recessive disorder 
characterized by multiple congenital abnormalities and mental retardation. The 
condition is caused by the deficiency of 7-dehydrocholesterol reductase (DHCR7) 
which catalyzes the final step in cholesterol biosynthesis. Biochemical 
diagnosis is based on increased concentration of 7-dehydrocholesterol (7-DHC) in 
the patient serum. Both life expectancy and quality of life are severely 
affected by the disease. The estimated prevalence of SLO syndrome ranges between 
1:20,000 and 1:40,000 among Caucasians. Although the mutational spectrum of the 
disease is wide, approximately 10 mutations are responsible for more than 80% of 
the cases. These mutations show a large interethnic variability. There are no 
mutation distribution data from Hungary to date. Thirteen patients were 
diagnosed with SLO syndrome in our laboratory. As first-line tests, serum 7-DHC 
and total cholesterol were measured and, in positive cases, molecular genetic 
analysis of the DHCR7 gene was performed. Complete genetic background of the 
disease could be identified in 12 cases. In 1 case only 1 mutation was detected 
in a heterozygote form. One patient was homozygous for the common splice site 
mutation c.964-1G>C, while all other patients were compound heterozygotes. One 
novel missense mutation, c.374A>G (p.Tyr125Cys) was identified.

DOI: 10.1159/000343923
PMCID: PMC3531926
PMID: 23293579


997. J Adv Nurs. 2013 Sep;69(9):2088-98. doi: 10.1111/jan.12076. Epub 2013 Jan 7.

Adapting to living with a mechanical aortic heart valve: a phenomenographic 
study.

Oterhals K(1), Fridlund B, Nordrehaug JE, Haaverstad R, Norekvål TM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Heart Disease, Haukeland University Hospital, Bergen, Norway. 
kjersti.oterhals@helse-bergen.no

AIM: To describe how patients adapt to living with a mechanical aortic heart 
valve.
BACKGROUND: Aortic valve replacement with a mechanical prosthesis is preferred 
for patients with life expectancy of more than 10 years as they are more durable 
than bioprosthetic valves. Mechanical valves have some disadvantages, such as 
higher risk of thrombosis and embolism, increased risk of bleeding related to 
lifelong oral anticoagulation treatment and noise from the valve.
DESIGN: An explorative design with a phenomenographic approach was employed.
METHODS: An explorative design with a phenomenographic approach was applied. 
Interviews were conducted over 4 months during 2010-2011 with 20 strategically 
sampled patients, aged 24-74 years having undergone aortic valve replacement 
with mechanical prosthesis during the last 10 years.
FINDINGS: Patients adapted to living with a mechanical aortic heart valve in 
four ways: 'The competent patient' wanted to stay in control of his/her life. 
'The adjusted patient' considered the implications of having a mechanical aortic 
valve as part of his/her daily life. 'The unaware patient' was not aware of 
warfarin-diet-medication interactions. 'The worried patient' was bothered with 
the oral anticoagulation and annoyed by the sound of the valve. Patients moved 
between the different ways of adapting.
CONCLUSIONS: The oral anticoagulation therapy was considered the most 
troublesome consequence, but also the sound of the valve was difficult to 
accept. Patient counselling and adequate follow-up can make patients with 
mechanical aortic heart valves more confident and competent to manage their own 
health. We recommend that patients should participate in a rehabilitation 
programme following cardiac surgery.

© 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jan.12076
PMID: 23294437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Med Clin (Barc). 2013 Jun 4;140(11):514-9. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2012.10.018.  Epub 2013 Jan 4.

[Health care system: where is now and where it goes?].

[Article in Spanish]

Piqué JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Director General del Hospital Clínic de Barcelona, Barcelona, España. 
jmpique@clinic.ub.es

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2012.10.018
PMID: 23294630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. HIV Med. 2013 Jul;14(6):337-46. doi: 10.1111/hiv.12010. Epub 2013 Jan 7.

Incident hypertension in older women and men with or at risk for HIV infection.

Factor SH(1), Lo Y, Schoenbaum E, Klein RS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, Mount Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY 
10029, USA. stephanie.factor@mssm.edu

OBJECTIVES: Antiretroviral (ARV) therapy has prolonged the life expectancy of 
HIV-infected persons, increasing their risk of age-associated diseases, 
including atherosclerosis (AS). Decreased risk of AS has been associated with 
the prevention and control of hypertension (HTN). We conducted a cohort study of 
perimenopausal women and older men with or at risk of HIV infection to identify 
risk factors for incident HTN.
METHODS: Standardized interviews, physical examinations, and laboratory 
examinations were scheduled at 6-month intervals. Interview data included 
demographics, medical, family, sexual behaviour and drug use histories, and 
physical activity.
RESULTS: There were 330 women and 329 men eligible for inclusion in the study; 
27% and 35% of participants developed HTN during a median follow-up period of 
1080 and 1071 days, respectively. In gender-stratified analysis, adjusting for 
traditional HTN risk factors (age, race, body mass index, smoking, diabetes, 
family history of HTN, alcohol dependence, physical activity and high 
cholesterol), HIV infection was not associated with incident HTN in women 
[hazard ratio (HR) 1.31; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.56, 3.06] or men (HR 
1.67; 95% CI 0.75, 3.74). Among HIV-infected women, although exposure to ARVs 
was not significantly associated with incident HTN (HR 0.72; 95% CI 0.26, 1.99), 
CD4 T-cell count was positively associated with incident HTN (HR 1.15 per 100 
cells/μL; 95% CI 1.03, 1.28). Among physically active HIV-infected men, exposure 
to ARVs was negatively associated with incident HTN (HR 0.15; 95% CI 0.03, 
0.78).
CONCLUSIONS: HIV infection was not associated with incident HTN in older men or 
women. This study provides additional evidence supporting a causal relationship 
between immune function and incident HTN, which warrants further study.

© 2013 British HIV Association.

DOI: 10.1111/hiv.12010
PMCID: PMC4572696
PMID: 23294666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. BJU Int. 2013 May;111(6):880-90. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11514.x.
Epub  2013 Jan 7.

Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) concentrations in hypogonadal men during 6 years 
of transdermal testosterone treatment.

Raynaud JP(1), Gardette J, Rollet J, Legros JJ.

Author information:
(1)Université Pierre et Marie Curie, 4 place Jussieu, 75252, Paris, France. 
jpr.raynaud@gmail.com

Comment in
    J Urol. 2014 Apr;191(4):1079.

WHAT'S KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT? AND WHAT DOES THE STUDY ADD?: Hypogonadism affects 
an estimated 2-4 million men in the USA, but only 5% receive treatment. 
Testosterone replacement therapy reduces the effects of testosterone deficiency 
on sexual function, mood and energy in hypogonadal patients. Long-term 
hypogonadism management requires testosterone treatment to restore serum 
concentrations of testosterone and its active metabolites, within physiological 
ranges; a testosterone preparation that achieves physiological plasma 
concentrations without supra-physiological escape is a preferred option. A 
previous 1-year study European clinical study showed the efficacy and safety of 
a transdermal testosterone patch (Testopatch(®) ). The present study shows the 
long-term (6-year) safety and efficacy of Testopatch in patients with primary or 
secondary hypogonadism. We show that, over the long-term, Testopatch was 
associated with no relevant changes in PSA concentration and PSA velocity, or 
any significant prostate risks (there were no cases of prostate cancer).
OBJECTIVE: To assess the change in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) 
concentrations in patients with primary or secondary hypogonadism, receiving 
transdermal testosterone.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was an interventional, 6-year study, conducted in 
Urology and Endocrinology centres in Belgium, France, Germany, the Netherlands 
and Spain. Participants were primary (48%) or secondary (52%) hypogonadal 
patients who received two 60 cm(2) testosterone patches (Testopatch(®) ), 
delivering 4.8 mg of testosterone per day, applied every 2 days. During 
treatment, total testosterone (TT), dihydrotestosterone, oestradiol and, PSA 
concentrations were measured in a centralised laboratory every 3 months during 
the first year, and every 6 months thereafter.
RESULTS: In all, 200 patients [mean (sd) age 41.0 (12.5) years, body weight 82.5 
(13.7) kg, height 177.2 (9.3) cm, body mass index 26.2 (3.4) kg/m(2) ] were 
treated with transdermal testosterone patches. In all, 161 patients completed 
the 1-year study and 115 entered into a 5-year study extension; 51 patients 
completed the sixth year of the study. The mean baseline concentrations of TT 
and PSA were 1.4 ng/mL and 0.47 ng/mL, respectively; TT serum concentrations >3 
ng/mL were achieved in 85% of patients and fluctuated between 4.4 and 6.0 ng/mL. 
At each successive 6-month time point, mean the PSA values were 0.60, 0.67, 
0.76, 0.70, 0.61, 0.68, 0.64, 0.71, 0.75, 0.74, 1.01, 0.78, 0.80 ng/mL, 
respectively. The mean PSA velocity was negligible (0.00-0.03 ng/mL/year) from 
30 months to the end of the trial, except for a value of 0.08 at 60 months. 
Seven patients had a PSA concentration of >4 ng/mL due to a sharp PSA increase. 
Six of these patients had prostatitis and PSA concentrations returned to 
previous levels with appropriate treatment. No prostate cancer was reported 
during the trial.
CONCLUSION: These data support a strong safety profile for Testopatch, even at 
the highest registered dosage.

© 2013 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11514.x
PMID: 23294726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Int J Stroke. 2013 Oct;8 Suppl A100:76-80. doi: 
10.1111/j.1747-4949.2012.00955.x. Epub 2013 Jan 7.

The disability adjusted life years due to stroke in South Africa in 2008.

Bertram MY(1), Katzenellenbogen J, Vos T, Bradshaw D, Hofman KJ.

Author information:
(1)MRC/Wits Rural Public Health, Health Transitions Research Unit (Agincourt), 
Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South 
Africa; Health and Population Division of Public Health, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.

BACKGROUND: South Africa is experiencing epidemiological transition, with the 
burden of chronic diseases increasing. Stroke is currently the second leading 
cause of death in South Africa; however, limited data are available on 
incidence, prevalence and resulting disability. Quantifying the epidemiological 
parameters and disease burden is important in the planning of health services.
AIMS: To synthesize the data surrounding stroke in South Africa and calculate 
disability adjusted life years attributable to stroke in South Africa in 2008.
METHODS: We undertook a systematic review to identify studies on the prevalence 
and mortality of stroke in South Africa. We used the DisMod program to calculate 
missing epidemiological parameters, in particular incidence and duration. Using 
these values, we calculated the burden of disease in years of life lost (YLL), 
years lived with disability (YLD) and disability adjusted life years (DALY).
RESULTS: Data on prevalence and mortality of stroke in South Africa are scarce. 
We estimate there are 75,000 strokes in South Africa each year, with 25,000 of 
these fatal within the first month. The burden of disease due to stroke in South 
Africa was 564,000 DALYs. Of this, 17% is contributed by YLD (14-20% in 
sensitivity analysis).
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides information on prevalence, incidence and 
disease burden of stroke at the national level in South Africa. The results of 
this analysis will enable further work on priority setting and health service 
planning for primary and secondary prevention of stroke in South Africa.

© 2013 The Authors. International Journal of Stroke © 2013 World Stroke 
Organization.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1747-4949.2012.00955.x
PMID: 23295022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Jan;32(1):155-64. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0948.

A 'polypill' aimed at preventing cardiovascular disease could prove highly 
cost-effective for use in Latin America.

Bautista LE(1), Vera-Cala LM, Ferrante D, Herrera VM, Miranda JJ, Pichardo R, 
Sánchez Abanto JR, Ferreccio C, Silva E, Oróstegui Arenas M, Chirinos JA, 
Medina-Lezama J, Pérez CM, Schapochnik N, Casas JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Population Health Sciences, the University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, WI, USA. lebautista@wisc.edu

We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of administering a daily "polypill" 
consisting of three antihypertensive drugs, a statin, and aspirin to prevent 
cardiovascular disease among high-risk patients in Latin America. We found that 
the lifetime risk of cardiovascular disease could be reduced by 15 percent in 
women and by 21 percent in men if the polypill were used by people with a risk 
of cardiovascular disease equal to or greater than 15 percent over ten years. 
Attaining this goal would require treating 26 percent of the population at a 
cost of $34-$36 per quality-adjusted life-year. Offering the polypill to women 
at high risk and to men age fifty-five or older would be the best approach and 
would yield acceptable incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. The polypill would 
be very cost-effective even in the country with the lowest gross national income 
in our study. However, policy makers must weigh the value of intervention with 
the polypill against other interventions, as well as their country's willingness 
and ability to pay for the intervention.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2011.0948
PMID: 23297283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Arch Environ Occup Health. 2013;68(1):3-12. doi: 10.1080/19338244.2011.619216.

Reducing fine particulate to improve health: a health impact assessment for 
Taiwan.

Yang CM(1), Kao K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Transportation Technology and Management, National Chiao Tung 
University, Hsinchu, Taiwan. isoguava@hotmail.com

Recently various countries have adopted the new standards for PM(2.5) 
(particulate matter <2.5 μm in aerodynamic diameter), but Taiwan still maintains 
an old set of air quality guidelines for particulate matter; therefore, the 
authors quantified the public health impact of long-term exposure to PM(2.5) in 
terms of attributable number of deaths and the potential gain in life expectancy 
by reducing PM(2.5) annual levels to 25, 20, 15, and 10 μg/m(3). When the 
guideline for PM(2.5) long-term exposure was set at 25 μg/m(3), 3.3% of 
all-cause mortality or 4,500 deaths in 2009 could be prevented. The potential 
gain in life expectancy at age 30 of this reduction would increase by a range 
between 1 and 7 months in Taiwan. This study shows that guidelines for PM(2.5), 
especially for long-term exposure, should be adopted in Taiwan as soon as 
possible to protect public health.

DOI: 10.1080/19338244.2011.619216
PMID: 23298419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2013 Jan;29(1):27-34. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462312000657. Epub 2013 Jan 7.

Cost-utility of waiting time in total joint replacements: a randomized clinical 
trial.

Tuominen U(1), Sintonen H, Aronen P, Hirvonen J, Seitsalo S, Lehto M, Hietaniemi 
K, Blom M.

Author information:
(1)The Social Insurance Institution, Research Department, Helsinki, Finland. 
ulla.tuominen@kela.fi

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462312000657
PMID: 23298468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Swiss Med Wkly. 2013 Jan 8;143:w13739. doi: 10.4414/smw.2013.13739.
eCollection  2013.

Vitamin K antagonists are hard to beat by the price - are they? Some answers, 
new questions and the GPs dilemma.

Beer JH.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2013.13739
PMID: 23299196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2012 Oct;32(4):274-80. doi: 
10.1590/s1020-49892012001000005.

[The cost-utility ratio of reducing salt intake and its impact on the incidence 
of cardiovascular disease in Argentina].

[Article in Spanish]

Ferrante D(1), Konfino J, Mejía R, Coxson P, Moran A, Goldman L, Pérez-Stable 
EJ.

Author information:
(1)Ministerio de Salud de la Nación, Buenos Aires, Argentina. 
dferrante@masl.gov.ar

OBJECTIVE: Estimate the cost-utility ratio of an intervention to reduce dietary 
salt intake in people over the age of 35 in Argentina.
METHODS: The intervention consisted of reducing salt content in food by 5% to 
25%. A simulation model was used to measure the impact of policies on heart 
disease in order to predict incidence, prevalence, mortality, and cost trends 
for heart and cerebrovascular disease in the population aged 35 - 84. The 
intervention modeled the impact and costs of a 3-gram reduction in dietary salt 
intake by reducing the amount of salt in processed food and salt added to food 
by the participants themselves over a 10-year period. Changes in event 
occurrence during this period and gains in quality-adjusted life years (QALY) 
were estimated in high- and low-impact scenarios.
RESULTS: The intervention generated a net savings of US$ 3 765 million and a 
gain of 656 657 QALYs in the high-impact scenario and a savings of US$ 2 080 
million and 401 659 QALY in the low-impact scenario. The result would be 
reductions in the incidence of heart disease (24.1%), acute myocardial 
infarction (21.6%), and stroke (20.5%), as well as in mortality from heart 
disease (19.9%) and all causes (6.4%). Benefits were observed for all age groups 
and both genders.
CONCLUSIONS: Implementing this strategy to reduce salt intake would produce a 
very positive health impact, both in QALY gains and savings in economic 
resources.

DOI: 10.1590/s1020-49892012001000005
PMID: 23299288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Hepatology. 2013 Mar;57(3):1046-54. doi: 10.1002/hep.26221. Epub 2013 Feb 12.

Cost-effectiveness of sorafenib treatment in field practice for patients with 
hepatocellular carcinoma.

Cammà C(1), Cabibbo G, Petta S, Enea M, Iavarone M, Grieco A, Gasbarrini A, 
Villa E, Zavaglia C, Bruno R, Colombo M, Craxì A; WEF study group; SOFIA study 
group.

Author information:
(1)Sezione di Gastroenterologia, DIBIMIS, University of Palermo, Italy. 
calogero.camma@unipa.it

The purpose was to assess the cost-effectiveness of sorafenib in the treatment 
of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) patients incorporating current prices and the 
results of the recent published field practice SOraFenib Italian Assessment 
(SOFIA) study. We created a Markov Decision Model to evaluate, in a hypothetical 
cohort of Caucasian male patients, aged 67 years with Barcelona Clinic Liver 
Cancer (BCLC) C HCC, or BCLC B HCC who were unfit or failed to respond to 
locoregional therapies, well compensated cirrhosis, and with performance status 
0-1 according to Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG), the 
cost-effectiveness of the following strategies: (1) full or dose-adjusted 
sorafenib for BCLC B and C patients together; (2) full or dose-adjusted 
sorafenib for BCLC B patients; (3) full or dose-adjusted sorafenib for BCLC C 
patients. Outcomes include quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), costs, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). In the base-case analysis 
dose-adjusted sorafenib was the most effective of the evaluated strategies. For 
dose-adjusted sorafenib, QALY was 0.44 for BCLC B and C patients together, 0.44 
for BCLC C patients, and 0.38 for BCLC B patients. The ICER of dose-adjusted 
sorafenib compared with BSC was €34,534 per QALY gained for BCLC B and C 
patients together, €27,916 per QALY gained for BCLC C patients, and €54,881 per 
QALY gained for BCLC B patients. Results were sensitive to BSC survival rate, 
and sorafenib treatment duration.
CONCLUSION: In daily practice dose-adjusted, but not full-dose, sorafenib is a 
cost-effective treatment compared to BSC in intermediate and advanced HCC.

Copyright © 2013 American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26221
PMID: 23299720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. BMJ. 2013 Jan 8;346:e8441. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e8441.

Time lag to benefit after screening for breast and colorectal cancer: 
meta-analysis of survival data from the United States, Sweden, United Kingdom, 
and Denmark.

Lee SJ(1), Boscardin WJ, Stijacic-Cenzer I, Conell-Price J, O'Brien S, Walter 
LC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco 
Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San Francisco, CA 94121, USA.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2013;346:f299.

OBJECTIVES: To determine a pooled, quantitative estimate of the length of time 
needed after breast or colorectal cancer screening before a survival benefit is 
observed.
DESIGN: Meta-analysis of survival data from population based, randomized 
controlled trials comparing populations screened and not screened for breast or 
colorectal cancer. Trials were identified as high quality by reviews from the 
Cochrane Collaboration and United States Preventive Services Task Force.
SETTING: Trials undertaken in the United States, Denmark, United Kingdom, and 
Sweden.
POPULATION: Screened patients older than 40 years.
PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Time to death from breast or colorectal cancer in 
screened and control populations.
INTERVENTIONS: Fecal occult blood testing for colorectal cancer screening, 
mammography for breast cancer screening.
RESULTS: Our study included five and four eligible trials of breast and 
colorectal cancer screening, respectively. For breast cancer screening, 3.0 
years (95% confidence interval 1.1 to 6.3) passed before one death from breast 
cancer was prevented for every 5000 women screened. On average across included 
studies, it took 10.7 years (4.4 to 21.6) before one death from breast cancer 
was prevented for 1000 women screened. For colorectal cancer screening, 4.8 
years (2.0 to 9.7) passed before one death from colorectal cancer was prevented 
for 5000 patients screened. On average across included studies, it took 10.3 
years (6.0 to 16.4) before one death from colorectal cancer was prevented for 
1000 patients screened.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that screening for breast and colorectal cancer 
is most appropriate for patients with a life expectancy greater than 10 years. 
Incorporating time lag estimates into screening guidelines would encourage a 
more explicit consideration of the risks and benefits of screening for breast 
and colorectal cancer.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e8441
PMCID: PMC4688425
PMID: 23299842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Swiss Med Wkly. 2013 Jan 8;143:w13732. doi: 10.4414/smw.2013.13732.
eCollection  2013.

Cost-effectiveness of dabigatran for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation in 
Switzerland.

Pletscher M(1), Plessow R, Eichler K, Wieser S.

Author information:
(1)Winterthur Institute of Health Economics, Zurich University of Applied 
Sciences, Winterthur, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVES: Atrial fibrillation is a major risk factor for ischemic stroke and 
anticoagulation therapy is indicated to reduce risk. Dabigatran is a new oral 
anticoagulant that does not require INR monitoring. This study evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of dabigatran versus vitamin K antagonists for stroke 
prevention in atrial fibrillation in Switzerland.
METHODS: A Markov model simulating the course of treatment and occurrence of 
clinical events in two treatment arms over the lifetime of patients was adapted 
to the Swiss context. The adaptation included the cost of anticoagulation 
therapy and clinical events in Switzerland. The cost of inpatient care was 
estimated on data of all inpatient hospital stays in 2008. The calculation of 
outpatient care costs was based on peer reviewed studies, expert interviews and 
local tariffs.
RESULTS: Patients treated with dabigatran had a higher life expectancy and 
experienced more quality adjusted life years (QALY) while incurring higher costs 
than patients treated with vitamin K antagonists. The estimated incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was CHF 25,108.‒ per QALY with 110 mg and CHF 
9,702 per QALY with 150 mg of dabigatran. A sequential dosage scheme, in which 
150 mg are administered up to the age of 80 years and 110 mg thereafter, 
resulted in an ICER of CHF 10,215 per QALY. A sensitivity analysis confirmed 
that these results are robust.
CONCLUSIONS: Dabigatran can be considered cost-effective in comparison with 
vitamin K antagonists in the Swiss context. The higher drug cost of dabigatran 
is compensated by savings in INR monitoring, lower cost of clinical events and 
QALY-gains.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2013.13732
PMID: 23300013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Curr Oncol. 2012 Dec;19(6):e478-90. doi: 10.3747/co.19.1128.

Treatment of metastatic spinal cord compression: cepo review and clinical 
recommendations.

L'espérance S(1), Vincent F, Gaudreault M, Ouellet JA, Li M, Tosikyan A, Goulet 
S; Comité de l’évolution des pratiques en oncologie.

Author information:
(1)Comité de l'évolution des pratiques en oncologie, Quebec City, QC.

BACKGROUND: Metastatic spinal cord compression (mscc) is an oncologic emergency 
that, unless diagnosed early and treated appropriately, can lead to permanent 
neurologic impairment. After an analysis of relevant studies evaluating the 
effectiveness of various treatment modalities, the Comité de l'évolution des 
pratiques en oncologie (cepo) made recommendations on mscc management.
METHOD: A review of the scientific literature published up to February 2011 
considered only phase ii and iii trials that included assessment of neurologic 
function. A total of 26 studies were identified.
RECOMMENDATIONS: Considering the evidence available to date, cepo recommends 
that cancer patients with mscc be treated by a specialized multidisciplinary 
team.dexamethasone 16 mg daily be administered to symptomatic patients as soon 
as mscc is diagnosed or suspected.high-loading-dose corticosteroids be 
avoided.histopathologic diagnosis and scores from scales evaluating prognosis 
and spinal instability be considered before treatment.corticosteroids and 
chemotherapy with radiotherapy be offered to patients with spinal cord 
compression caused by myeloma, lymphoma, or germ cell tumour without sign of 
spinal instability or compression by bone fragment.short-course radiotherapy be 
administered to patients with spinal cord compression and short life 
expectancy.long-course radiotherapy be administered to patients with inoperable 
spinal cord compression and good life expectancy.decompressive surgery followed 
by long-course radiotherapy be offered to appropriate symptomatic mscc patients 
(including spinal instability, displacement of vertebral fragment); andpatients 
considered for surgery have a life expectancy of at least 3-6 months.

DOI: 10.3747/co.19.1128
PMCID: PMC3503678
PMID: 23300371


