analyses were performed every 30 days. Morphological changes in the 
nanoparticles were also evaluated by scanning electron microscopy. The major 
antimicrobial compounds remained stable and active for ~90 days at room 
temperature. After about 90 days, the quantities of major antimicrobial 
compounds decreased noticeably with a consequent decrease in antimicrobial 
activity. These results are promising for the implementation of new technologies 
using natural antimicrobial products and provide useful information regarding 
the average life expectancy of antimicrobial filters using nanoparticles of S. 
flavescens.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2012.11.075
PMID: 23262327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Transplantation. 2013 Jan 15;95(1):106-13. doi: 10.1097/TP.0b013e318277b2be.

Outcomes of kidney transplantation from older living donors.

Lim WH(1), Clayton P, Wong G, Campbell SB, Cohney S, Russ GR, Chadban SJ, 
McDonald SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Renal Medicine, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Perth, 
Australia. wai.lim@health.wa.gov.au

BACKGROUND: The disparity between donor kidney availability and demand has 
increased utilization of kidneys from older living donors (OLD). We compared 
graft and patient outcomes of patients on maintenance dialysis after 
transplantation with OLD kidneys to those receiving younger live donor (YLD) 
kidneys and deceased donor (DD) kidneys.
METHODS: Using Australia and New Zealand Dialysis and Transplant Registry, 
primary live and deceased donor renal transplant recipients aged 18 years or 
older between 1997 and 2009 were stratified into six groups: standard criteria 
deceased donor kidneys with total ischemic time of less than 12 hours (SCD, 
<12), SCD of 12 or greater, expanded criteria donor (ECD) less than 12, ECD of 
12 or greater, YLD (LD, <60 years), and OLD kidneys (LD, ≥60 years). Preemptive 
and multiple-organ transplants were excluded.
RESULTS: Of the 6,317 renal transplant recipients, 346 (5.5%) received OLD 
kidneys. Compared with kidneys from SCD of less than 12 hours, OLD kidneys were 
associated with a greater risk of death-censored graft failure (DCGF; adjusted 
HR 2.00; 95% confidence interval, 1.32-3.03) and inferior 5-year graft function 
(estimated glomerular filtration rate of 45 mL/min vs. 56 mL/min), although no 
increase in 5-year mortality (HR, 1.18; 95% confidence interval, 0.80-1.76). 
Outcomes for OLD kidneys were also inferior to YLD recipients, although modestly 
superior to ECD kidneys. Chronic allograft nephropathy was more commonly 
reported as the cause of DCGF among recipients of OLD kidneys than other donor 
types.
CONCLUSION: Patient survival was equal, but graft outcomes for recipients of OLD 
kidneys were inferior to those obtained with YLD and SCD kidneys. This study 
suggests that OLD kidneys should be utilized cautiously, cognizant of the fact 
that younger recipients may have a life expectancy in excess of the life of the 
transplanted kidney.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e318277b2be
PMID: 23263504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Internist (Berl). 2013 Jan;54(1):28-34, 36-8. doi:
10.1007/s00108-012-3091-9.

[Transcutaneous aortic valve implantation].

[Article in German]

Möllmann H(1), Liebetrau C, Nef H, Kempfert J, Walther T, Hamm C.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Kardiologie, Kerckhoff-Klinik, Bad Nauheim, Deutschland. 
h.moellmann@kerckhoff-klinik.de

Due to increasing life expectancy in the coming decades the number of elderly 
patients with aortic valve stenosis (AS) and various concomitant diseases will 
increase. Conventional surgical aortic valve replacement represents the 
treatment of choice in patients with severe and symptomatic AS. Transfemoral and 
transapical aortic valve implantation (T-AVI) has evolved as a standard 
procedure for patients with severe AS who are technically inoperable or at very 
high risk for surgical valve replacement. The T-AVI approach has been shown to 
be superior to the standard medical treatment in these high-risk patients. All 
patients to be considered for T-AVI should be discussed in a consensus 
conference consisting of cardiac surgeons and cardiologists (heart team).

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-012-3091-9
PMID: 23263747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Demography. 2013 Aug;50(4):1387-95. doi: 10.1007/s13524-012-0179-8.

Multidimensional life table estimation of the total fertility rate and its 
components.

Retherford RD(1), Eini-Zinab H, Choe MK, Ogawa N, Matsukura R.

Author information:
(1)East-West Center, Honolulu, HI 96848, USA. retherfr@eastwestcenter.org

Erratum in
    Demography. 2013 Aug;50(4):1397.

Using discrete-time survival models of parity progression and illustrative data 
from the Philippines, this article develops a multivariate multidimensional life 
table of nuptiality and fertility, the dimensions of which are age, parity, and 
duration in parity. The measures calculated from this life table include total 
fertility rate (TFR), [corrected] total marital fertility rate (TMFR), parity 
progression ratios (PPR), age-specific fertility rates, mean and median ages at 
first marriage, mean and median closed birth intervals, and mean and median ages 
at childbearing by child's birth order and for all birth orders combined. These 
measures are referred to collectively as "TFR and its components." Because the 
multidimensional life table is multivariate, all measures derived from it are 
also multivariate in the sense that they can be tabulated by categories or 
selected values of one socioeconomic variable while controlling for other 
socioeconomic variables. The methodology is applied to birth history data, in 
the form of actual birth histories from a fertility survey or reconstructed 
birth histories derived from a census or household survey. The methodology 
yields period estimates as well as cohort estimates of the aforementioned 
measures.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-012-0179-8
PMCID: PMC3681931
PMID: 23264037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Antivir Ther. 2013;18(3):399-408. doi: 10.3851/IMP2500. Epub 2012 Dec 21.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of UGT1A1 genetic testing to inform antiretroviral 
prescribing in HIV disease.

Schackman BR(1), Haas DW, Becker JE, Berkowitz BK, Sax PE, Daar ES, Ribaudo HJ, 
Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY, 
USA. brs2006@med.cornell.edu

BACKGROUND: Homozygosity for UGT1A1*28/*28 has been reported to be associated 
with atazanavir-associated hyperbilirubinaemia and premature atazanavir 
discontinuation. We assessed the potential cost-effectiveness of UGT1A1 testing 
to inform the choice of an initial protease-inhibitor-containing regimen in 
antiretroviral therapy (ART)-naive individuals.
METHODS: We used the Cost-Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS Complications 
computer simulation model to project quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and 
lifetime costs (2009 USD) for atazanavir-based ART with or without UGT1A1 
testing, using darunavir rather than atazanavir when indicated. We assumed the 
UGT1A1-associated atazanavir discontinuation rate reported in the Swiss HIV 
Cohort Study (a *28/*28 frequency of 14.9%), equal efficacy and cost of 
atazanavir and darunavir and a genetic assay cost of $107. These parameters, as 
well as the effect of hyperbilirubinaemia on quality of life and loss to follow 
up, were varied in sensitivity analyses. Costs and QALYs were discounted at 3% 
annually.
RESULTS: Initiating atazanavir-based ART at CD4(+) T-cell counts <500 cells/μl 
without UGT1A1 testing had an average discounted life expectancy of 16.02 QALYs 
and $475,800 discounted lifetime cost. Testing for UGT1A1 increased QALYs by 
0.49 per 10,000 patients tested and was not cost-effective (>$100,000/QALY). 
Testing for UGT1A1 was cost-effective (<$100,000/QALY) if assay cost decreased 
to $10, or if avoiding hyperbilirubinaemia by UGT1A1 testing reduced loss to 
follow-up by 5%. If atazanavir and darunavir differed in cost or efficacy, 
testing for UGT1A1 was not cost-effective under any scenario.
CONCLUSIONS: Testing for UGT1A1 may be cost-effective if assay cost is low and 
if testing improves retention in care, but only if the comparator ART regimens 
have the same drug cost and efficacy.

DOI: 10.3851/IMP2500
PMCID: PMC3744167
PMID: 23264445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: Dr. Haas has been 
principal investigator on research grants to Vanderbilt University from Bristol 
Myers Squibb, Boehringer Ingelheim, Merck, and Gilead Sciences. Dr. Sax has been 
a consultant for Abbott, Aileron, Bristol Myers Squibb, Gilead, GSK, Merck, and 
Janssen, and has received grant support from Bristol Myers Squibb, Gilead, 
Merck, GSK, and Janssen. Dr. Daar has been a consultant for Bristol Myers 
Squibb, Gilead, Merck and ViiV, and has received grant support from Abbott, 
Gilead, Merck, ViiV, and Pfizer.


938. Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Feb;42(1):250-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/dys219. Epub 2012
Dec  21.

The contribution of rectangularization to the secular increase of life 
expectancy: an empirical study.

Rossi IA(1), Rousson V, Paccaud F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine (IUMSP), Lausanne University 
Hospital, Lausanne, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Jun;42(3):914-6.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Jun;42(3):916-7.

BACKGROUND: In low-mortality countries, life expectancy is increasing steadily. 
This increase can be disentangled into two separate components: the delayed 
incidence of death (i.e. the rectangularization of the survival curve) and the 
shift of maximal age at death to the right (i.e. the extension of longevity).
METHODS: We studied the secular increase of life expectancy at age 50 in nine 
European countries between 1922 and 2006. The respective contributions of 
rectangularization and longevity to increasing life expectancy are quantified 
with a specific tool.
RESULTS: For men, an acceleration of rectangularization was observed in the 
1980s in all nine countries, whereas a deceleration occurred among women in six 
countries in the 1960s. These diverging trends are likely to reflect the 
gender-specific trends in smoking. As for longevity, the extension was steady 
from 1922 in both genders in almost all countries. The gain of years due to 
longevity extension exceeded the gain due to rectangularization. This 
predominance over rectangularization was still observed during the most recent 
decades.
CONCLUSIONS: Disentangling life expectancy into components offers new insights 
into the underlying mechanisms and possible determinants. Rectangularization 
mainly reflects the secular changes of the known determinants of early 
mortality, including smoking. Explaining the increase of maximal age at death is 
a more complex challenge. It might be related to slow and lifelong changes in 
the socio-economic environment and lifestyles as well as population composition. 
The still increasing longevity does not suggest that we are approaching any 
upper limit of human longevity.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dys219
PMID: 23264509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Eukaryot Cell. 2013 Feb;12(2):368-77. doi: 10.1128/EC.00277-12. Epub 2012
Dec  21.

Control of polarized growth by the Rho family GTPase Rho4 in budding yeast: 
requirement of the N-terminal extension of Rho4 and regulation by the Rho 
GTPase-activating protein Bem2.

Gong T(1), Liao Y, He F, Yang Y, Yang DD, Chen XD, Gao XD.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, People's Republic of China.

In the budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, Rho4 GTPase partially plays a 
redundant role with Rho3 in the control of polarized growth, as deletion of RHO4 
and RHO3 together, but not RHO4 alone, caused lethality and a loss of cell 
polarity at 30°C. Here, we show that overexpression of the constitutively active 
rho4(Q131L) mutant in an rdi1Δ strain caused a severe growth defect and 
generated large, round, unbudded cells, suggesting that an excess of Rho4 
activity could block bud emergence. We also generated four temperature-sensitive 
rho4-Ts alleles in a rho3Δ rho4Δ strain. These mutants showed growth and 
morphological defects at 37°C. Interestingly, two rho4-Ts alleles contain 
mutations that cause amino acid substitutions in the N-terminal region of Rho4. 
Rho4 possesses a long N-terminal extension that is unique among the six Rho 
GTPases in the budding yeast but is common in Rho4 homologs in other yeasts and 
filamentous fungi. We show that the N-terminal extension plays an important role 
in Rho4 function since rho3Δ rho4(Δ)(61) cells expressing truncated Rho4 lacking 
amino acids (aa) 1 to 61 exhibited morphological defects at 24°C and a growth 
defect at 37°C. Furthermore, we show that Rho4 interacts with Bem2, a Rho 
GTPase-activating protein (RhoGAP) for Cdc42 and Rho1, by yeast two-hybrid, 
bimolecular fluorescence complementation (BiFC), and glutathione S-transferase 
(GST) pulldown assays. Bem2 specifically interacts with the GTP-bound form of 
Rho4, and the interaction is mediated by its RhoGAP domain. Overexpression of 
BEM2 aggravates the defects of rho3Δ rho4 mutants. These results suggest that 
Bem2 might be a novel GAP for Rho4.

DOI: 10.1128/EC.00277-12
PMCID: PMC3571307
PMID: 23264647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. J Genet Syndr Gene Ther. 2012 May 25;S1:011. doi: 10.4172/2157-7412.S1-011.

Treatment of Hemophilia A in Utero and Postnatally using Sheep as a Model for 
Cell and Gene Delivery.

Porada CD(1), Almeida-Porada G.

Author information:
(1)Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.

Hemophilia A represents the most common inheritable deficiency of the 
coagulation proteins. Current state-of- the-art treatment consists of frequent 
prophylactic infusions of plasma-derived or recombinant FVIII protein to 
maintain hemostasis, and has greatly increased life expectancy and quality of 
life for many hemophilia A patients. This treatment approach is, however, far 
from ideal, due to the need for lifelong intravenous infusions, the high 
treatment cost, and the fact that it is unavailable to a large percentage of the 
world's hemophiliacs. There is thus a need for novel treatments that can promise 
long-term or permanent correction. In contrast to existing protein based 
therapeutics, gene therapy offers to provide a permanent cure following few, or 
even a single, treatment. In the present paper, we review ongoing work towards 
this end, focusing on studies we have performed in a large animal model. Some of 
the key topics covered in this review include the unique opportunities sheep 
offer as a model system, the re-establishment and clinical and molecular 
characterization of a line of sheep with severe hemophilia A, the advantages and 
feasibility of treating a disease like hemophilia A in utero, and the use of 
Mesenchymal Stem Cells (MSC) as cellular delivery vehicles for the FVIII gene. 
The review finishes with a brief discussion of our recent success correcting 
ovine hemophilia A with a postnatal transplant with gene-modified MSC, and the 
limitations of this approach that remain to be overcome.

DOI: 10.4172/2157-7412.S1-011
PMCID: PMC3526064
PMID: 23264887


941. Br J Gen Pract. 2012 Oct;62(603):e687-95. doi: 10.3399/bjgp12X656829.

Self-management support for moderate-to-severe chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease: a pilot randomised controlled trial.

Taylor SJ(1), Sohanpal R, Bremner SA, Devine A, McDaid D, Fernández JL, 
Griffiths CJ, Eldridge S.

Author information:
(1)Queen Mary University of London, Barts and The London School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, London, UK. s.j.c.taylor@qmul.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Better self management could improve quality of life (QoL) and 
reduce hospital admissions in chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), but 
the best way to promote it remains unclear.
AIM: To explore the feasibility, effectiveness and cost effectiveness of a 
novel, layperson-led, theoretically driven COPD self-management support 
programme.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Pilot randomised controlled trial in one UK primary care 
trust area.
METHOD: Patients with moderate to severe COPD were identified through primary 
care and randomised 2:1 to the 7-week-long, group intervention or usual care. 
Outcomes at baseline, 2, and 6 months included self-reported health, St George's 
Respiratory Questionnaire (SGRQ), EuroQol, and exercise.
RESULTS: Forty-four per cent responded to GP invitation, 116 were randomised: 
mean (standard deviation [SD]) age 69.5 (9.8) years, 46% male, 78% had 
unscheduled COPD care in the previous year. Forty per cent of intervention 
patients completed the course; 35% attended no sessions; and 78% participants 
completed the 6-month follow-up questionnaire. Results suggest that the 
intervention may increase both QoL (mean EQ-5D change 0.12 (95% confidence 
interval [CI] = -0.02 to 0.26) higher, intervention versus control) and exercise 
levels, but not SGRQ score. Economic analyses suggested that with thresholds of 
£20 000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained, the intervention is likely to be 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: This intervention has good potential to meet the UK National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence criteria for cost effectiveness, 
and further research is warranted. However, to make a substantial impact on COPD 
self-management, it will also be necessary to explore other ways to enable 
patients to access self-management education.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp12X656829
PMCID: PMC3459776
PMID: 23265228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Eur Urol. 2013 Apr;63(4):637-43. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2012.11.055. Epub
2012  Dec 8.

The first 100 consecutive, robot-assisted, intracorporeal ileal conduits: 
evolution of technique and 90-day outcomes.

Azzouni FS(1), Din R, Rehman S, Khan A, Shi Y, Stegemann A, Sharif M, Wilding 
GE, Guru KA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY 14263, USA.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2013 Apr;63(4):644-5.
    Aktuelle Urol. 2013 Jul;44(4):260-1.
    J Urol. 2013 Dec;190(6):2147.

BACKGROUND: Robot-assisted radical cystectomy (RARC) has evolved over the last 
few years to become an acceptable alternative option to open radical cystectomy. 
Most series of RARC used an open approach to urinary diversion. Even though 
robot-assisted intracorporeal urinary diversion (RICUD) is the natural extension 
of RARC, few centers have reported their experiences with RICUD in general, and 
in particular, of robot-assisted intracorporeal ileal conduits (RICIC).
OBJECTIVE: To report our experience with RICIC using the Marionette technique.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: The first 100 consecutive patients who 
underwent RARC and RICIC, and had ≥ 3 mo of postoperative follow-up were 
included in this study. Patients were divided into four groups of 25 patients 
each to study the evolution of our surgical technique.
INTERVENTION: RICIC.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Intraoperative, pathologic, and 
90-d postoperative outcomes for the four groups and the overall cohort were 
compared using the Fisher exact test (categorical variables) and the 
Kruskal-Wallis test (continuous variables). Continuous variables were reported 
as median (range) and categorical variables were specified as frequency 
(percentage).
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Overall operative and specific diversion times were 352 
and 123 min, respectively. Estimated blood loss was 300 ml, lymph node yield was 
24, and positive surgical margin rate was 4%. Length of hospital stay increased 
from 7 d for group 1 to 9 d for group 4. The overall 90-d complication rate was 
81%; 19% of complications were high grade. Infections were the most common 
complications, representing 31% of all complications. There were no 
statistically significant intergroup differences except in diversion time, 
intraoperative transfusions, and length of stay.
CONCLUSIONS: RICIC diversion is safe, feasible, and reproducible. Larger series 
with longer follow-up are needed to validate the procedure and define its place 
in the minimally invasive urologic armamentarium. Quality of life studies need 
to be conducted to compare benefits of intracorporeal urinary diversion.

Copyright © 2012 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2012.11.055
PMID: 23265384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2013 Mar;133(3):351-5. doi:
10.1007/s00402-012-1671-8.  Epub 2012 Dec 25.

Eighteen-year follow-up after rotationplasty for a grade IIIC open fracture of 
the distal femur.

Petri M(1), Omar M, Horstmann H, Brand S, Krettek C.

Author information:
(1)Trauma Department, Hannover Medical School (MHH), Carl-Neuberg-Straße 1, 
Hannover, Germany. petri.maximilian@mh-hannover.de

We report the 18-year follow-up of a patient who underwent rotationplasty for 
severe bone loss and infection after an grade IIIC open fracture of the distal 
femur. The patient is now 49 years old and fully satisfied with his life. During 
the follow-up period, he has never had significant physical or psychological 
problems directly concerning the rotationplasty. The analysis of quality of life 
using the SF36 questionnaire revealed even higher scores than the normal healthy 
population in seven out of eight sub-categories. Clinical examination revealed 
bland soft tissues without hyperkeratosis or other signs of maladaptation. 
Articular and cutaneous proprioception was intact all over the left leg. The 
active extension/flexion of the prosthetic knee was 0°-0°-100° and 10°-0°-70° of 
the ankle joint. Manual testing of motor strength revealed grade five of five 
for dorsiflexion and plantar flexion of the ankle. Gait patterns including 
climbing slopes and stairs were close to normal. Examination in sports 
physiology showed lower maximum power of hip and knee muscles compared to the 
healthy side, but better muscular endurance. These findings emphasize that 
rotationplasty can be a good alternative to arthrodesis or amputation in trauma 
patients providing high satisfaction and activity levels in the long-term 
follow-up.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-012-1671-8
PMID: 23266823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Rev Esp Enferm Dig. 2012 Oct-Nov;104(10):537-45. doi: 
10.4321/s1130-01082012001000006.

Prevention or cure in times of crisis: the case of screening for colorectal 
cancer.

Carballo F(1), Muñoz-Navas M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, School of Medicine, University of Murcia, 
Service of Gastroenterology, Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Arrixaca, 
Murcian Biosanitary Research Institute. Murcia, Spain. luisf.carballo@carm.es

Colorectal cancer is a serious health problem in which screening is capable of 
reducing both the mortality and the incidence of the disorder. Colonoscopy, the 
mainstay of this type of screening, allows to establish an early diagnosis and 
also to eliminate malignant precursor lesions. The screening test which is 
performed in Spanish programs is the determination of fecal occult blood using 
the immunochemical method which gives around 70% of positive values for 
colonoscopy for any type of neoplasia. As a result, in 2009 the National Health 
System set as an objective that these programs cover 50% of the population by 
2015. It is well known that colon screening is highly cost effective with a 
ratio of around 2500€ per QALY, much lower than ratios of other programs. Only 
the direct costs of colon and rectal cancer in Spain can be estimated at more 
than one thousand million euros per year. Early diagnosis and the cancers 
avoided thanks to screening can reduce these costs by 40%. The impact that the 
introduction of this screening has on health services can be lessened if the 
indications for colonoscopy are followed adequately. In conclusion, there is no 
justification for not acting to prevent CRC and this is especially so in times 
of crisis as there is no better social cost invested than that which saves 
suffering, deathsand even money.

DOI: 10.4321/s1130-01082012001000006
PMID: 23268633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Med Decis Making. 2013 Feb;33(2):261-70. doi: 10.1177/0272989X12465673. Epub
 2012 Dec 26.

The impact of patients' subjective life expectancy on time tradeoff valuations.

Heintz E(1)(2), Krol M(3)(4), Levin LÅ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Care Analysis, Linko¨ ping University, Linko¨ ping, Sweden 
(EH, LA˚ L)
(2)Swedish Council on Health Technology Assessment, Stockholm, Sweden (EH)
(3)Institute of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands (MK)
(4)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands (MK)

BACKGROUND: Quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) calculations in economic 
evaluations are typically based on general public or patient health state 
valuations elicited with the time tradeoff method (TTO). Such health state 
valuations elicited among the general public have been shown to be affected by 
respondents' subjective life expectancy (SLE). This suggests that TTO exercises 
based on time frames other than SLE may lead to biased estimates. It has not yet 
been investigated whether SLE also affects patient valuations.
OBJECTIVE: To empirically investigate whether patients' SLE affects TTO 
valuations of their current health state.
METHODS: Patients with different severities of diabetic retinopathy were asked 
in a telephone interview to value their own health status using TTO. The TTO 
time frame (t) presented was based on age- and sex-dependent actuarial life 
expectancy. Patients were then asked to state their SLE. Simple and multiple 
regression techniques were used to assess the effect of the patients' SLE on 
their TTO responses.
RESULTS: In total, 145 patients completed the telephone interview. Patients' TTO 
values were significantly influenced by their SLE. The TTO value decreased 
linearly with every additional year of difference between t and the patients' 
SLE; that is, patients were more willing to give up years the shorter their SLE 
compared with t.
CONCLUSION: Patients' SLE influenced their TTO valuations, suggesting that 
respondents' SLE may be the most appropriate time frame to use in TTO exercises 
in patients. The use of other time periods may bias the TTO valuations, as the 
respondents may experience the presented time frame as a gain or a loss. The 
effect seems to be larger in patient valuations than in general public 
valuations.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X12465673
PMID: 23268838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2012 Dec;39 Suppl 1:30-2.

[Aging problem in the home hospice care].

[Article in Japanese]

Watanabe G(1), Yamagiwa T, Nakayama S, Ito S, Fukuda A, Shiotani T, Yamaoka Y.

Author information:
(1)Baptist Home Hospice Palliative Care Clinic.

Home hospice care is not merely an extension of hospital-based medical care 
administered at the hospital, but refers to hospice care for patients with 
life-threatening diseases that can only be given at their homes. The rapid 
growth of the elderly population in Japan has led to not only the need for home 
hospice care, but also social problems such as living alone, living with only 
one elderly family member, and problems that are particularly acute in cancer 
patients with dementia. We analyzed data for 262 patients for whom home hospice 
care was provided by our clinic. Overall, elderly persons with dementia tended 
to request admission before death, but most elderly persons living alone 
preferred home hospice care. We found that 58% of the patients living with only 
one elderly family member requested admission before death, which was lower than 
the rate of the study group as a whole. We further performed an in-depth 
analysis of the current situation in order to improve home hospice care of 
terminally ill patients in Japan, focusing on problems related to the aging 
population.

PMID: 23268892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Am J Nurs. 2013 Jan;113(1):19-21. doi: 10.1097/01.NAJ.0000425741.91354.c4.

Navigating the PSA screening dilemma.

Jacobson J.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NAJ.0000425741.91354.c4
PMID: 23271238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. J Vis Exp. 2012 Dec 12;(70):e50179. doi: 10.3791/50179.

Tactile conditioning and movement analysis of antennal sampling strategies in 
honey bees (Apis mellifera L.).

Mujagić S(1), Würth SM, Hellbach S, Dürr V.

Author information:
(1)Biological Cybernetics, CITEC - Cognitive Interaction Technology - Center of 
Excellence, Bielefeld University. samir.mujagic@uni-bielefeld.de

Honey bees (Apis mellifera L.) are eusocial insects and well known for their 
complex division of labor and associative learning capability(1, 2). The worker 
bees spend the first half of their life inside the dark hive, where they are 
nursing the larvae or building the regular hexagonal combs for food (e.g. pollen 
or nectar) and brood(3). The antennae are extraordinary multisensory feelers and 
play a pivotal role in various tactile mediated tasks(4), including hive 
building(5) and pattern recognition(6). Later in life, each single bee leaves 
the hive to forage for food. Then a bee has to learn to discriminate profitable 
food sources, memorize their location, and communicate it to its nest mates(7). 
Bees use different floral signals like colors or odors(7, 8), but also tactile 
cues from the petal surface(9) to form multisensory memories of the food source. 
Under laboratory conditions, bees can be trained in an appetitive learning 
paradigm to discriminate tactile object features, such as edges or grooves with 
their antennae(10, 11, 12, 13). This learning paradigm is closely related to the 
classical olfactory conditioning of the proboscis extension response (PER) in 
harnessed bees(14). The advantage of the tactile learning paradigm in the 
laboratory is the possibility of combining behavioral experiments on learning 
with various physiological measurements, including the analysis of the antennal 
movement pattern.

DOI: 10.3791/50179
PMCID: PMC3578280
PMID: 23271329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Qual Manag Health Care. 2013 Jan-Mar;22(1):66-82. doi: 
10.1097/QMH.0b013e31827decaa.

Diabetes specialty clinic: an intervention to improve care for veterans.

Homa K(1), Detzer M, Morgan J, Derry E, Merrill LA, Whitley CS, Aaron J.

Author information:
(1)Leadership Preventive Medicine Residency Program, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical 
Center, Lebanon, New Hampshire 03756, USA. Karen.A.Homa@Hitchcock.org

OBJECTIVE: People with diabetes who have chronically higher than normal blood 
glucose levels are at risk for a variety of health conditions, such as kidney 
failure, blindness, amputation, and a shortened life expectancy. At a Veterans 
Health Administration Medical Center (White River Junction, Vermont), a team of 
providers, diabetes educators, and psychologist noticed that patient education 
and therapy sessions were not effective for some patients and in addition the 
center had above the benchmark percentage of veterans who had higher than normal 
blood glucose levels. The team thought a new approach might work better and 
through feedback from staff and primary care providers developed the Diabetes 
Specialty Clinic (DSC). Our working theory was that veterans would make changes 
in diabetes self-management and improve their levels of blood glucose by sharing 
their experiences with other veterans in a supportive environment.
METHODS: Both quantitative and qualitative methods were used to evaluate whether 
the DSC had a positive impact with the veterans. Hemoglobin A1c was obtained at 
the first group meeting and at 6 weeks, 6 months, and 1 year, along with 5 
patient-reported outcomes obtained using 4 questionnaires.
RESULTS: Thirty-nine veterans participated in the DSC. For the veterans who 
participated in the DSC for more than a year, 42% of the measures showed 
improvement, and they shared positive feedback on how the DSC influenced their 
behaviors by helping them engage in self-care activities.
CONCLUSION: The DSC seemed to be effective in creating a space for establishing 
relationships, resolving issues, and understanding the management of diabetes 
for veterans and health care professionals.

DOI: 10.1097/QMH.0b013e31827decaa
PMID: 23271595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Rev Prat. 2012 Nov;62(9):1221-4.

[Epidemiology of stroke in the elderly : "the silver tsunami"].

[Article in French]

Jacquin A(1), Hervieu-Bègue M, Daubail B, Osseby GV, Rouaud O, Giroud M, Béjot 
Y.

Author information:
(1)Registre dijonnais des AVC (Inserm et InVs), EA 4184 "Centre d'Epidémiologie 
et de Santé Publique de Bourgogne, 21000 Dijon, France. 
maurice.giroud@chu-dijon.fr

Stroke in the elderly has more major differences compared to young people. The 
first cause remains the atherothrombosis disease associated to the following 
risk factors: hypertension, diabetes, hypercholesterolemia, tobacco consumption. 
Lipohyalinosis of perforating arteries linked to blood hypertension inducing 
lacunar infarcts and atrial fibrillation are the 2nd and 3rd causes linked to 
age. The increase of the ageing population explains the rise of the number of 
stroke over 80 years. On a clinical point of view, the pseudo-bulbar syndrome is 
very frequent and explains the swallowing troubles and incontinence. Prognosis 
is characterized by a high risk of dementia (20 %). Primary and secondary 
prevention is very effective even in very old patients, on the risk of stroke. 
Fibrinolysis and stroke units have demonstrated their efficacy in stroke 
treatments over 80 years. We observed a decrease of case-fatality rates at any 
day with a delay in age of onset of stroke of 5 years in men and 8 years in 
women, suggesting an increase of life expectancy without stroke, reflecting a 
certain efficacy of prevention. The elderly may be more often included in 
therapeutic trials.

PMID: 23272470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Rev Prat. 2012 Nov;62(9):1234-8.

[Carotid stenosis in elderly patients].

[Article in French]

Calvet D(1), Mas JL.

Author information:
(1)Service de neurologie et unité neurovasculaire, centre hospitalier 
Sainte-Anne, 75674 Paris Cedex 14, France. d.calvet@ch-sainte-anne.fr

Carotid stenosis -- a frequent finding in elderly patients -- is associated with 
an increase risk not only of ipsilateral ischemic stroke, but also of 
cerebrovascular events in other territories and non neurological vascular 
events. Prevention of those vascular events is mainly based on optimization of 
vascular risk factor treatment and antiplatelet therapy. The risk of ipsilateral 
stroke depends on several predictive factors but the main predictors are a 
previous ischemic stroke in the carotid stenosis territory and the degree of 
carotid stenosis. It is recommended that patients who experience non disabling 
ischemic stroke or transient ischemic attack related to a 70 to 99% carotid 
stenosis should undergo carotid endarterectomy In patients with moderate 
symptomatic stenosis (between 50 to 69%), the decision to operate is more 
difficut because the benefit of carotid endarterectomy is less important. Males, 
75 year-old and older are more likely to benefit, particularly when carotid 
endarterectomy is performed within 2 weeks of the symptoms. In patients with 
asymptomatic stenosis, the benefit of carotid endarterectomy is highly debated, 
in particular because the risk of stroke in non-operated patients has fallen 
over the last decades due to advances in medical therapy Selection of 
asymptomatic patients for carotid endarterectomy should be guided by an 
assessment of several factors including comorbid conditions, life expectancy, 
and age.

PMID: 23272473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2012 Jul-Sep;116(3):756-60.

Quality of life in patients with ulcerative colitis.

Nedelciuc O(1), Pintilie I, Dranga M, Mihai C, Prelipcean CC.

Author information:
(1)University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Grigore T. Popa-Iaşi School of Medicine.

Patients with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) have to live with the perspective 
of a potential disability, which may lead in time to impaired quality of life 
(QoL). In order to fully understand the impact of IBD on patients and their 
careers we need to quantify the QoL.
AIM: To evaluate HRQol in ulcerative colitis patients as opposed to the general 
population and to identify the significant changes of HRQoL in accordance with 
the specific progression of UC.
METHODS: The prospective study (January 2010 - December 2012), included 105 
patients with ulcerative colitis (UC). Disease activity was quantified by means 
of the Truelove and Witts score (mild, moderate and severe). All patients were 
administered a self-completed IBD questionnaire (IBDQ). Lower scores were 
related to a worse QoL. Statistical analysis was performed and di fferences were 
considered significant when p < or = 0.05.
RESULTS: Ninety-one percent (91%) were admitted with a flare, while they were 
asked to fill in the IBDQ. Proctitis was met in 2.94% of the cases, left-sided 
colitis in 71.1% and pancolitis in 26%. There were 32 patients with mild 
activity, 62 with moderate activity and only 3 with severe activity. The range 
score for QoL was 90-180. In proctitis: 80-190, in left-side colitis: 120-200, 
in pancolitis: 70-160 (p>0.05). The patients with severe form had a lower score 
(50-140) than patients in remission (130-180) (p<0.01).
CONCLUSION: Patients with UC have significantly influenced the QoL as compared 
to the general population. We found no significant differences regarding the 
extension of the lesions. The severity of the flare had a significant impact on 
the QoL.

PMID: 23272523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. J Psychosom Res. 2013 Jan;74(1):49-56. doi:
10.1016/j.jpsychores.2012.10.006.  Epub 2012 Nov 11.

Anxiety, depressive and somatic symptoms in adults with congenital heart 
disease.

Eslami B(1), Sundin O, Macassa G, Khankeh HR, Soares JJ.

Author information:
(1)Institution of Health Sciences, Department of Public Health Sciences, Mid 
Sweden University, Sundsvall, Sweden. Bahareh.eslami@miun.se

OBJECTIVE: Despite the improvement in life-expectancy of adults with congenital 
heart disease, they may experience unique medical and social challenges that 
could impact on their psychological functioning. The aims of this study were to 
address the experience of anxiety, depressive and somatic symptoms among adults 
with congenital heart disease in comparison with that of non-heart diseased 
persons considering the role of various factors (e.g. socio-economic).
METHODS: In cross-sectional case-control study, the participants consisted of 
347 patients with congenital heart disease (18-64 years, 52.2% female) and 353 
matched (by sex/age) non-heart diseased persons. The participants completed a 
questionnaire. The data were analyzed with bivariate and multivariate methods.
RESULTS: In bivariate analyses, scores in anxiety and somatic symptoms were 
higher among patients than the healthy controls (both at p≤0.001), whereas the 
groups did not differ in depressive symptoms. Following 
multiple-linear-regression-analyses, only the association between congenital 
heart disease and somatic symptoms was confirmed. Among the patients, perceived 
financial strain was significantly related to anxiety, depressive and somatic 
symptoms; lower perceived social support to anxiety and depression; and low 
annual income to somatic symptoms. Additionally, somatic symptoms were 
associated with anxiety and depressive symptoms, and vice versa. And no medical 
variables were related to anxiety, depressive and somatic symptoms.
CONCLUSIONS: Congenital heart disease was only independently associated with 
somatic symptoms. Financial strain, social support and co-existence of emotional 
distress with somatic symptoms should be considered in developing appropriate 
interventions to improve the well-being of patients with congenital heart 
disease. However, longitudinal research is warranted to clarify causality.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2012.10.006
PMID: 23272988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. BMC Public Health. 2012 Dec 29;12:1126. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-1126.

Changing patterns of cardiovascular diseases and cancer mortality in Portugal, 
1980-2010.

Pereira M(1), Peleteiro B, Capewell S, Bennett K, Azevedo A, Lunet N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Predictive Medicine and Public Health, 
University of Porto Medical School and Institute of Public Health of the 
University of Porto, ISPUP, Al, Prof, Hernâni Monteiro, Porto 4200-319, 
Portugal. martasfp@med.up.pt

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases and cancer are jointly responsible for more 
than half all deaths in Portugal. They also share some important risk factors 
and act as mutual competing risks. We aimed firstly to describe time trends in 
death rates and years of life lost due to cardiovascular diseases and cancer in 
the Portuguese population from 1980 to 2010; and secondly to quantify the 
contribution of the variation in population and age structure, and 
age-independent "risk" by cardiovascular or oncological causes to the change in 
the corresponding number of deaths.
METHODS: We estimated the annual percent change in age-standardized mortality 
rates from cardiovascular diseases and cancer, in each sex. The specific 
contribution of demographic changes (due to changes in population size and in 
population age structure) and the variation in the age-independent "risk" of 
dying from the disease to the observed trends in the number of deaths was 
quantified using the tool RiskDiff. Years of life lost were computed using the 
Global Burden of Disease method.
RESULTS: Among men, the mortality rate from all cardiovascular diseases was more 
than two-fold higher than cancer mortality in 1980. However, three decades later 
mortality from cancer surpassed cardiovascular diseases. After 2005, the years 
of life lost from cancer were also higher than from cardiovascular diseases. 
Among women, despite the decrease in death rates, cardiovascular diseases 
remained the leading cause of death in 2010 and their absolute burden was higher 
than that of cancers across the whole period, mainly due to more events in older 
women.
CONCLUSIONS: In Portugal, the 20th century witnessed a dramatic decrease in the 
cardiovascular disease mortality and YLL, and the transition towards cancer. In 
more recent years, the highest burdens of disease came from cancers in men and 
from cardiovascular diseases in women.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-12-1126
PMCID: PMC3560231
PMID: 23273040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Endocrinol Nutr. 2013 Apr;60(4):197-210. doi: 10.1016/j.endonu.2012.09.006.
Epub  2012 Dec 28.

Update on nutrients involved in maintaining healthy bone.

Rondanelli M(1), Opizzi A, Perna S, Faliva MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Health Sciences, Section of Human Nutrition and 
Dietetics, Faculty of Medicine, University of Pavia, Endocrinology and Nutrition 
Unit, Azienda di Servizi alla Persona di Pavia, Pavia, Italy. 
mariangela.rondanelli@unipv.it

Osteoporosis is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality in the elderly and 
influences quality of life, as well as life expectancy. Currently, there is a 
growing interest among the medical scientists in search of specific nutrients 
and/or bioactive compounds of natural origin for the prevention of disease and 
maintenance of bone health. Although calcium and vitamin D have been the primary 
focus of nutritional prevention of osteoporosis, a recent research has clarified 
the importance of several additional nutrients and food constituents. Based on 
this review of the literature, supplementation with vitamins B, C, K, and 
silicon could be recommended for proper maintenance of bone health, although 
further clinical studies are needed. The results of studies on long-chain 
polyunsaturated fatty acids, potassium, magnesium, copper, selenium, and 
strontium are not conclusive, although studies in vitro and in animal models are 
interesting and promising.

Copyright © 2012 SEEN. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.endonu.2012.09.006
PMID: 23273614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Cell Rep. 2012 Dec 27;2(6):1473-4. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2012.12.004.

The longevity of sirtuins.

Sinclair D(1), Verdin E.

Author information:
(1)Glenn Laboratories for the Molecular Biology of Aging, Department of 
Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
david_sinclair@hms.harvard.edu

Comment on
    Cell Rep. 2012 Dec 27;2(6):1485-91.

Controversy has recently arisen over the role of sirtuins in metazoan aging. In 
this issue of Cell Reports, Banerjee et al. demonstrate that Drosophila Sir2 is 
necessary for life span extension in response to dietary restriction and that 
its overexpression in the fat body increases the life span.

Copyright © 2012 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2012.12.004
PMID: 23273894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Transl Res. 2013 Apr;161(4):255-64. doi: 10.1016/j.trsl.2012.12.001. Epub
2012  Dec 26.

Gene therapy in cystic fibrosis.

Prickett M(1), Jain M.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary 
and Critical Care Medicine, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an autosomal recessive disease caused by mutations in 
the cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator (CFTR) gene and is the most common 
life-shortening genetic defect in Caucasians. Life expectancy in CF has improved 
substantially over the last 75 years because of treatments aimed at end-organ 
complications. Since the CFTR gene was discovered in 1989 more than 1900 
mutations have been reported to cause CF and significant effort has been put 
forth into gene therapy to find a mutation independent "cure" for CF. Gene-based 
approaches have not yet led to a viable therapy but have provided insights into 
hurdles that limit the efficacy of gene therapy. This review will address the 
nomenclature of CFTR mutations, attempts at viral and nonviral gene therapy, and 
recent advances in mutation-specific molecules.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.trsl.2012.12.001
PMID: 23273902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2013 Apr 1;85(5):1282-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2012.11.006. Epub 2012 Dec 27.

Protons in head-and-neck cancer: bridging the gap of evidence.

Ramaekers BL(1), Grutters JP, Pijls-Johannesma M, Lambin P, Joore MA, Langendijk 
JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, School for Public Health and Primary 
Care, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands. bram.ramaekers@mumc.nl

PURPOSE: To use Normal Tissue Complication Probability (NTCP) models and 
comparative planning studies to explore the (cost-)effectiveness of swallowing 
sparing intensity modulated proton radiotherapy (IMPT) compared with swallowing 
sparing intensity modulated radiotherapy with photons (IMRT) in head and neck 
cancer (HNC).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A Markov model was constructed to examine and compare the 
costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) of the following strategies: (1) 
IMPT for all patients; (2) IMRT for all patients; and (3) IMPT if efficient. The 
assumption of equal survival for IMPT and IMRT in the base case analysis was 
relaxed in a sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Intensity modulated proton radiation therapy and IMRT for all patients 
yielded 6.620 and 6.520 QALYs and cost €50,989 and €41,038, respectively. 
Intensity modulated proton radiation therapy if efficient yielded 6.563 QALYs 
and cost €43,650. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of IMPT if efficient 
versus IMRT for all patients was €60,278 per QALY gained. In the sensitivity 
analysis, IMRT was more effective (0.967 QALYs) and less expensive (€8218) and 
thus dominated IMPT for all patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness analysis based on normal tissue complication 
probability models and planning studies proved feasible and informative and 
enables the analysis of individualized strategies. The increased effectiveness 
of IMPT does not seem to outweigh the higher costs for all head-and-neck cancer 
patients. However, when assuming equal survival among both modalities, there 
seems to be value in identifying those patients for whom IMPT is cost-effective.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2012.11.006
PMID: 23273998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2013 Feb 1;431(1):76-80. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2012.12.087. Epub 2012 Dec 27.

Crystal structure of human Intersectin-2L C2 domain.

Zhang W(1), Shen Y, Xiong G, Guo Y, Deng L, Li B, Yang J, Qi C.

Author information:
(1)Hubei Key Laboratory of Genetic Regulation and Integrative Biology, College 
of Life Science, Huazhong Normal University, Wuhan 430079, PR China.

Intersectin-2L (ITSN-2L) is a long isoform of ITSN family, which is a 
multimodule scaffolding protein functioning in membrane-associated molecular 
trafficking and signal transduction pathways. ITSN-2L possesses a 
carboxy-terminal extension encoding a Dbl homology domain (DH), a pleckstrin 
homology domain (PH) and a C2 domain, suggesting that it could act as a guanine 
nucleotide exchange factor for Rho-like GTPases. But the role of C2 domain is 
obscure in this process. Here we report the crystal structure of human ITSN-2L 
C2 domain at 1.56Å resolution. The sequence and structural alignment of ITSN-2L 
C2 domain with other members of C2 domain protein family indicate its vital 
cellular roles in membrane trafficking, the generation of lipid-second 
messengers and activation of GTPases. Moreover, our data show the possible roles 
of ITSN-2L C2 domain in regulating the activity of Cdc42.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2012.12.087
PMID: 23274495 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Am J Clin Oncol. 2014 Jun;37(3):215-21. doi: 10.1097/COC.0b013e31827a7d2a.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of SBRT versus IMRT for low-risk prostate cancer.

Sher DJ(1), Parikh RB, Mays-Jackson S, Punglia RS.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Radiation Oncology, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, 
IL †Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute and Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA.

OBJECTIVES: Intensity-modulated radiation therapy (IMRT) has been established as 
the standard external-beam modality in treating low-risk prostate cancer. 
