5FU/LV alone and 5FU/LV compared with observation alone for patients who had 
resected stage II colon cancer.
METHODS: We developed 2 Markov models to represent the adjuvant chemotherapy and 
follow-up periods and a single Markov model to represent the observation group. 
We used calibration to estimate the transition probabilities among different 
toxicity levels. The base case considered 60-year-old patients who had undergone 
an uncomplicated hemicolectomy for stage II colon cancer and were medically fit 
to receive 6 months of adjuvant chemotherapy. We measured health outcomes in 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and estimated costs using 2007 US dollars.
RESULTS: In the base case, adjuvant chemotherapy of the FOLFOX regimen had an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $54,359/QALY compared with the 
5FU/LV regimen, and the 5FU/LV regimen had an ICER of $14,584/QALY compared with 
the observation group from the third-party payer perspective. The ICER values 
were most sensitive to 5-year relapse probability, cost of adjuvant 
chemotherapy, and the discount rate for the FOLFOX arm, whereas the ICER value 
of 5FU/LV was most sensitive to the 5-year relapse probability, 5-year survival 
probability, and the relapse cost. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
indicates that the ICER of 5FU/LV is less than $50,000/QALY with a probability 
of 99.62%, and the ICER of FOLFOX as compared with 5FU/LV is less than 
$50,000/QALY and $100,000/QALY with a probability of 44.48% and 97.24%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Although adjuvant chemotherapy with 5FU/LV is cost-effective at all 
ages for patients who have undergone an uncomplicated hemicolectomy for stage II 
colon cancer, FOLFOX is not likely to be cost-effective as compared with 5FU/LV.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X12470755
PMCID: PMC3960917
PMID: 23313932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. J Dent Educ. 2013 Jan;77(1):113-7.

Need for geriatric dentistry training programs in Iran.

Mir AP(1).

Author information:
(1)Dentistry School, Babol University of Medical Sciences, Ganj Afrooz Ave, 
Babol, Mazandaran, Iran. arashpoorsattar@yahoo.com

A shifting pattern from communicable diseases to the chronic noncommunicable 
diseases and increased life expectancy are being sensed throughout the world. 
Aged populations with multiple chronic diseases come up with their unique needs 
and require specific attention to be challenged by the health systems. Neglected 
orodental facts among the elders and the dearth of specific designated 
undergraduate and postgraduate courses of geriatric dentistry in Iran inevitably 
adversely affect the delivery of appropriate dental care service to elders by 
untrained dentists. In this article, a proposal for academic geriatric dentistry 
courses in Iran is introduced and highlighted with regards to elders' special 
needs.

PMID: 23314475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. Acta Med Indones. 2012 Oct;44(4):324-6.

Von Hippel Lindau disease [VHL]: magnetic resonance imaging spectrum in a single 
patient.

Jakhere SG(1), Yeragi B, Jain DG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, B Y L Nair Charitable Hospital and T N Medical 
College, Dr A R Nair Road, Mumbai Central, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India-400008. 
drsandeepjakhere@gmail.com

In this case, we describe the wide magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) spectrum in 
a single patient who had multi organ involvement. Von Hippel Lindau Disease is a 
rare inherited autosomal dominant disorder characterized by development of 
benign and malignant lesions involving multiple organs. Imaging plays a vital 
role in the diagnosis and surveillance of VHL as it can differentiate benign 
from malignant lesions. The median life expectancy of VHL is 49 years and the 
commonest cause of death in patients with VHL is renal cell carcinoma and 
neurologic complication from cerebellar hemangioblastomas.

PMID: 23314974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Transcult Psychiatry. 2013 Apr;50(2):303-22. doi: 10.1177/1363461512473733.
Epub  2013 Jan 11.

Internet suicide: communities of affirmation and the lethality of communication.

Niezen R(1).

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Anthropology, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. 
ronald.niezen@mcgill.ca

As a tool of instant information dissemination and social networking, the 
Internet has made possible the formation and affirmation of public identities 
based on personality traits that are usually characterized by clinicians as 
pathological. The wide variety of online communities of affirmation reveals new 
conditions for permissiveness and inclusiveness in expressions of these socially 
marginal and clinically pathologized identities. Much the same kind of discourse 
common to these online communities is evident in some suicide forums. Web sites 
with suicide as their central raison d'Ãªtre, taken together, encompass a wide 
range of ideas and commitments, including many that provide collective 
affirmation outside of (and often with hostility toward) professional 
intervention. The paradox of a potentially life-affirming effect of such forums 
runs counter to a stark dualism between online therapy versus "prochoice" forums 
and, by extension, to simple models of the influence of ideas on the lethality 
of suicide. Different forums either intensify or mitigate self-destructive 
tendencies in ways that are significant for understanding the place of 
communication in the occurrence of suicide and for therapeutic practice.

DOI: 10.1177/1363461512473733
PMID: 23315147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. BMJ. 2013 Jan 11;346:f215. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f215.

People in US have poorer health and die younger than those in other rich 
countries.

McCarthy M.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f215
PMID: 23315256 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Clin Drug Investig. 2000;20(2):109-21. doi: 10.2165/00044011-200020020-00006.

Cost-effectiveness analysis for statin therapies in the primary prevention of 
coronary heart disease in Italy.

Berto P(1), Munro V, Gaddi A, Negrini C, Hutton J, Mast O.

Author information:
(1)pbe consultants in Healthcare, V.lo Agnello 1, 37121, Verona, Italy, 
pbpbe@tin.it.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this analysis was to compare the costs, benefits and 
cost effectiveness of two dosage regimens of cerivastatin (0.2 and 0.4 mg/day) 
with Italian National Health Service (NHS) reimbursed comparative statins in the 
primary prevention of coronary heart disease in Italy. This study is part of a 
broader analysis undertaken in five European countries.
DESIGN AND SETTING: A cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) was performed, as the 
interventions have the same treatment objectives but vary in terms of magnitude 
of effectiveness. This CEA compared alternative treatments both in the NHS and 
from societal perspectives.
PATIENTS: A coronary heart disease risk assessment model, based on intervention 
study data from the Lipid Research Clinics Coronary Primary Prevention Trial, 
was used. This was augmented with demographic, disease, life expectancy, 
pharmacological and economic data for patients with coronary heart disease in 
Italy.
RESULTS: In terms of average cost effectiveness, our analysis showed that 
cerivastatin 0.2 mg/day compared favourably with pravastatin 20 mg/day, and 
compared similarly with simvastatin 20 mg/day in all age groups studied. The 
study also demonstrated that cerivastatin 0.4 mg/day compared favourably with 
both simvastatin 40 mg/day and pravastatin 20 mg/day. These results were 
consistent for both the NHS and societal perspective.The incremental cost per 
life-year gained [in 1998 Italian lire (L)] of simvastatin versus cerivastatin 
ranged from about L40 million [or Euro (Eur)20 658] to greater than L650 million 
(or Eur335 697). Cerivastatin 0.2 mg/day was more cost-effective than 
pravastatin 20 mg/day, while the incremental cost per life-year gained for 
cerivastatin 0.4 mg/day versus pravastatin 20 mg/day ranged from L11.1 million 
(or Eur5733) to L31.8 million (or Eur16 423) in the three age groups (35 to 39 
years, 50 to 54 years and 65 to 69 years) for both perspectives.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study showed that in primary prevention, 
average cost-effectiveness ratios of cerivastatin compared favourably with those 
of the other pharmacological interventions available on the Italian market.

DOI: 10.2165/00044011-200020020-00006
PMID: 23315353


43. BMJ Open. 2013 Jan 11;3(1):e001770. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-001770.

Early and intermediate survival after transcatheter aortic valve implantation: 
systematic review and meta-analysis of 14 studies.

Messori A(1), Trippoli S, Biancari F.

Author information:
(1)HTA Unit, Estav Centro Toscana, Regional Health Service, Firenze and Prato, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND: Transcatheter aortic valve implants (TAVIs) is indicated as an 
alternative to surgical valve replacement for patients unfit for surgery. No 
systematic review has studied survival after 2 years and limited information is 
available on between-study heterogeneity.
OBJECTIVES: A systematic review and meta-analysis on intermediate survival after 
TAVI.
DATA SOURCES: PubMed, EMBASE, Scopus and references of selected articles.
STUDY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA: Clinical studies evaluating TAVI, published between 
2010 and 2012, reporting survival at 2 or more years.
PARTICIPANTS: About 3500 patients from 14 studies.
STUDY APPRAISAL AND SYNTHESIS METHODS: Proportion meta-analysis with 95% CI and 
heterogeneity assessment (I(2) and Cochran's Q). Meta-regression analysis was 
performed as well.
RESULTS: Pooled immediate postoperative death rate was 7.8% (95% CI 6.2% to 
9.8%, I(2)=40.8%; Cochran's Q=97.7 with 92.9 df, p<0.0001) and stroke rate was 
3.8% (95% CI 2.8% to 5.0%, I(2)=34.3%; Cochran's Q=96.5 with 92.9 df, p<0.0001). 
Pooled death rates at 1, 2 and 3 years were 23.2%, 31.0% and 38.6%, 
respectively. Among studies reporting on concomitant percutaneous coronary 
intervention, pooled death rates at 30 days, 1 year and 2 years were 6.3%, 17.8% 
and 25.8%, respectively.
LIMITATIONS: Although our analysis examined a total of about 3500 patients, only 
a minority of these were actually followed up after 2 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Pooled survival rates after TAVI (at 2 years: 69.0%; at 3 years: 
61.4%) can be considered excellent, particularly in the light of the high-risk 
profile of this patient population. IMPLICATIONS OF KEY FINDINGS: The favourable 
intermediate outcome in patients subjected to TAVI seems to justify its use in 
patients unfit for surgery. Such pooled results indicate that TAVI is a valid 
alternative to surgical valve replacement, but lack of data on late durability 
after TAVI prevents its use in low-risk patients with long expectancy of life.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2012-001770
PMCID: PMC3549234
PMID: 23315515


44. J Public Health (Oxf). 2013 Dec;35(4):533-40. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fds106.
Epub  2013 Jan 11.

Social inequalities in health expectancy and the contribution of mortality and 
morbidity: the case of Irish Travellers.

Abdalla S(1), Kelleher C, Quirke B, Daly L; All-Ireland Traveller Health Study 
team.

Collaborators: Cronin F, Drummond A, Fitzpatrick P, Frazier K, Hamid NA, Kelly 
C, Kilroe J, Lotya J, McGorrian C, Moore RG, Murnane S, Carthaigh RN, O'Mahony 
D, O'Shea B, Staines A, Staines D, Sweeney MR, Turner J, Ward A, Whelan J.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Population Science, University 
College Dublin, Woodview House, Belfield, Dublin 4, Republic of Ireland.

BACKGROUND: The health expectancy of Irish Travellers, a disadvantaged 
indigenous minority group in Ireland has not been previously estimated. This 
study aimed to examine health expectancy inequalities between Irish Travellers 
and the general population.
METHODS: We used Sullivan's life table method to construct healthy life 
expectancy (HLE) and disability-free life expectancy (DFLE). The All-Ireland 
Traveller Health Study provided Irish Traveller population's mortality and 
health data. Vital registration, census and comparable national survey health 
data were used for the general population. We calculated the absolute and 
relative life expectancy, HLE and DFLE gaps between Irish Travellers and the 
general population and decomposed the HLE and DFLE gaps into mortality and 
morbidity contributions.
RESULTS: Irish Travellers had consistently lower HLE and DFLE than the general 
population. The health expectancy gap displayed notable age and gender 
variations and was wider than the life expectancy gap. Mortality contributed 
more than morbidity to the health expectancy gap in men but not in women.
CONCLUSIONS: This study illustrated the true extent of health inequalities 
experienced by an indigenous minority in Europe, clarifying the importance of 
reducing the burden of non-fatal disabling conditions for addressing these 
inequalities. The health expectancy measure used has application for other 
similar indigenous minorities elsewhere.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fds106
PMID: 23315684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Res Rep Health Eff Inst. 2012 Aug;(170):5-91.

Impact of the 1990 Hong Kong legislation for restriction on sulfur content in 
fuel.

Wong CM(1), Rabl A, Thach TQ, Chau YK, Chan KP, Cowling BJ, Lai HK, Lam TH, 
McGhee SM, Anderson HR, Hedley AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, The University of Hong Kong, China.

INTRODUCTION: After the implementation of a regulation restricting sulfur to 
0.5% by weight in fuel on July 1, 1990, in Hong Kong, sulfur dioxide (SO2*) 
levels fell by 45% on average and as much as 80% in the most polluted districts 
(Hedley et al. 2002). In addition, a reduction of respiratory symptoms and an 
improvement in bronchial hyperresponsiveness in children were observed (Peters 
et al. 1996; Wong et al. 1998). A recent time-series study (Hedley et al. 2002) 
found an immediate reduction in mortality during the cool season at six months 
after the intervention, followed by an increase in cool-season mortality in the 
second and third years, suggesting that the reduction in pollution was 
associated with a delay in mortality. Proportional changes in mortality trends 
between the 5-year periods before and after the intervention were measured as 
relative risks and used to assess gains in life expectancy using the life table 
method (Hedley et al. 2002). To further explore the relation between changes in 
pollution-related mortality before and after the intervention, our study had 
three objectives: (1) to evaluate the short-term effects on mortality of changes 
in the pollutant mix after the Hong Kong sulfur intervention, particularly with 
changes in the particulate matter (PM) chemical species; (2) to improve the 
methodology for assessment of the health impact in terms of changes in life 
expectancy using linear regression models; and (3) to develop an approach for 
analyzing changes in life expectancy from Poisson regression models. A fourth 
overarching objective was to determine the relation between short- and long-term 
benefits due to an improvement in air quality.
METHODS: For an assessment of the short-term effects on mortality due to changes 
in the pollutant mix, we developed Poisson regression Core Models with natural 
spline smoothers to control for long-term and seasonal confounding variations in 
the mortality counts and with covariates to adjust for temperature (T) and 
relative humidity (RH). We assessed the adequacy of the Core Models by 
evaluating the results against the Akaike Information Criterion, which 
stipulates that, at a minimum, partial autocorrelation plots should be between 
-0.1 and 0.1, and by examining the residual plots to make sure they were free 
from patterns. We assessed the effects for gaseous pollutants (NO2, SO2, and 
O3), PM with an aerodynamic diameter < or = 10 microm (PM10), and its chemical 
species (aluminum [Al], iron [Fe], manganese [Mn], nickel [Ni], vanadium [V], 
lead [Pb], and zinc [Zn]) using the Core Models, which were developed for the 
periods 5 years (or 2 years in the case of the sensitivity analysis) before and 
5 years after the intervention, as well as in the10-year (or 7-year in the case 
of the sensitivity analysis) period pre- and post-intervention. We also included 
an indicator to separate the pre- and post-intervention periods, as well as the 
product of the indicator with an air pollution concentration variable. The 
health outcomes were mortality for all natural causes and for cardiovascular and 
respiratory causes, at all ages and in the 65 years or older age group. To 
assess the short- and long-term effects, we developed two methods: one using 
linear regression models reflecting the age-standardized mortality rate D(j) at 
day j, divided by a reference D(ref); and the other using Poisson regression 
models with daily mortality counts as the outcome variables. We also used both 
models to evaluate the relation between outcome variables and daily air 
pollution concentrations in the current day up to all previous days in the past 
3 to 4 years. In the linear regression approach, we adjusted the data for 
temperature and relative humidity. We then removed season as a potential 
confounder, or deseasonalized them, by calculating a standard seasonal mortality 
rate profile, normalized to an annual average of unity, and dividing the 
mortality rates by this profile. Finally, to correct for long-term trends, we 
calculated a reference mortality rate D(ref)(j) as a moving average of the 
corrected and deseasonalized D(j) over the observation window. Then we regressed 
the outcome variable D(j)/D(ref) on an entire exposure sequence {c(i)} with lags 
up to 4 years in order to obtain impact coefficient f(i) from the regression 
model shown below: deltaD(j)/D (ref) = i(max)sigma f(i) c(j - i)(i = 0). The 
change in life expectancy (LE) for a change of units (deltac) in the 
concentration of pollutants on T(day)--representing the short interval (i.e., a 
day)--was calculated from the following equation (deltaL(pop) = average loss in 
life expectancy of an entire population): deltaL(pop) = -deltac T(day) infinity 
sigma (j = 0) infinity sigma f(i) (i = 0). In the Poisson regression approach, 
we fitted a distributed-lag model for exposure to previous days of up to 4 years 
in order to obtain the cumulative lag effect sigma beta(i). We fit the linear 
regression model of log(LE*/LE) = gamma(SMR - 1) + alpha to estimate the 
parameter gamma by gamma, where LE* and LE are life expectancy for an exposed 
and an unexposed population, respectively, and SMR represents the standardized 
mortality ratio. The life expectancy change per Ac increase in concentration is 
LE {exp[gamma delta c(sigma beta(i))]-1}.
RESULTS: In our assessment of the changes in pollutant levels, the mean levels 
of SO2, Ni, and V showed a statistically significant decline, particularly in 
industrial areas. Ni and V showed the greatest impact on mortality, especially 
for respiratory diseases in the 5-year pre-intervention period for both the 
all-ages and 65+ groups among all chemical species. There were decreases in 
excess risks associated with Ni and V after the intervention, but they were 
nonsignificant. Using the linear regression approach, with a window of 1095 days 
(3 years), the losses in life expectancy with a 10-microg/m3 increase in 
concentrations, using two methods of estimation (one with adjustment for 
temperature and RH before the regression against pollutants, the other with 
adjustment for temperature and RH within the regression against pollutants), 
were 19.2 days (95% CI, 12.5 to 25.9) and 31.4 days (95% CI, 25.6 to 37.2) for 
PM10; and 19.7 days (95% CI, 15.2 to 24.2) and 12.8 days (95% CI, 8.9 to 16.8) 
for SO2. The losses in life expectancy in the current study were smaller than 
the ones implied by Elliott and colleagues (2007) and Pope and colleagues (2002) 
as expected since the observation window in our study was only 3 years whereas 
these other studies had windows of 16 years. In particular, the coefficients 
used by Elliott and colleagues (2007) for windows of 12 and 16 years were 
non-zero, which suggests that our window of at most 3 years cannot capture the 
full life expectancy loss and the effects were most likely underestimated. Using 
the Poisson regression approach, with a window of 1461 days (4 years), we found 
that a 10-microg/m3 increase in concentration of PM10 was associated with a 
change in life expectancy of -69 days (95% CI, -140 to 1) and a change of -133 
days (95% CI, -172 to -94) for the same increase in SO2. The effect estimates 
varied as expected according to most variations in the sensitivity analysis 
model, specifically in terms of the Core Model definition, exposure windows, 
constraint of the lag effect pattern, and adjustment for smoking prevalence or 
socioeconomic status.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results on the excess risks of mortality showed exposure to 
chemical species to be a health hazard. However, the statistical power was not 
sufficient to detect the differences between the pre- and post-intervention 
periods in Hong Kong due to the data limitations (specifically, the chemical 
species data were available only once every 6 days, and data were not available 
from some monitoring stations). Further work is needed to develop methods for 
maximizing the information from the data in order to assess any changes in 
effects due to the intervention. With complete daily air pollution and mortality 
data over a long period, time-series analysis methods can be applied to assess 
the short- and long-term effects of air pollution, in terms of changes in life 
expectancy. Further work is warranted to assess the duration and pattern of the 
health effects from an air pollution pulse (i.e., an episode of a rapid rise in 
air pollution) so as to determine an appropriate length and constraint on the 
distributed-lag assessment model.

PMID: 23316618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2013 Mar;22(3):379-87. doi: 
10.1517/13543784.2013.761974. Epub 2013 Jan 15.

Radium-223 for the treatment of prostate cancer.

Hafeez S(1), Parker C.

Author information:
(1)Royal Marsden Hospital, Sutton, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Bone metastases cause significant morbidity and mortality in 
castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC). Until recently, treatment options 
have been limited, but now six drugs are known to extend life expectancy, with 
docetaxel the current standard first-line cytotoxic therapy. Phase III studies 
have also shown a survival advantage for sipuleucel-T, cabazitaxel, abiraterone, 
enzalutamide and radium-223 . Radium-223 is unique among these agents, as the 
only bone-directed therapy shown to prolong survival in CRPC.
AREAS COVERED: This review covers the current standard of care for CRPC and 
recent drug developments that have demonstrated a survival benefit. It focuses 
on bone-directed therapies, in particular radium-223, the first-in-class 
alpha-emitting radionuclide and discusses the pivotal studies to date. A PubMed 
search using the keywords below was performed.
EXPERT OPINION: Radium-223 is set to become a new standard of care for the 
treatment of bony metastatic CRPC. It improves both survival and quality of 
life, delays skeletal events and is well tolerated. Its optimal use in the 
evolving treatment strategies for men with CRPC and bone metastases is yet to be 
determined.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.2013.761974
PMID: 23316941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. J Clin Bioinforma. 2013 Jan 14;3(1):2. doi: 10.1186/2043-9113-3-2.

A ceRNA analysis on LMNA gene focusing on the Hutchinson-Gilford progeria 
syndrome.

Arancio W(1), Giordano C, Pizzolanti G.

Author information:
(1)Section of Endocrinology, Diabetology & Metabolism, Dipartimento Biomedico di 
Medicina Interna e Specialistica (Di,Bi,M,I,S,), University of Palermo, Piazza 
delle Cliniche 2, Palermo, 90127, Italy. carla.giordano@unipa.it.

BACKGROUND: Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome is a rare dominant human 
disease of genetic origin. The average life expectancy is about 20 years, 
patients' life quality is still very poor and no efficient therapy has yet been 
developed. It is caused by mutation of the LMNA gene, which results in 
accumulation in the nuclear membrane of a particular splicing form of Lamin-A 
called progerin. The mechanism by which progerin perturbs cellular homeostasis 
and leads to the symptoms is still under debate.Micro-RNAs are able to 
negatively regulate transcription by coupling with the 3' UnTranslated Region of 
messenger RNAs. Several Micro-RNAs recognize the same 3' UnTranslated Region and 
each Micro-RNA can recognize multiple 3' UnTranslated Regions of different 
messenger RNAs. When different messenger RNAs are co-regulated via a similar 
panel of micro-RNAs, these messengers are called Competing Endogenous RNAs, or 
ceRNAs.The 3' UnTranslated Region of the longest LMNA transcript was analysed 
looking for its ceRNAs. The aim of this study was to search for candidate genes 
and gene ontology functions possibly influenced by LMNA mutations that may exert 
a role in progeria development.
RESULTS: 11 miRNAs were isolated as potential LMNA regulators. By computational 
analysis, the miRNAs pointed to 17 putative LMNA ceRNAs. Gene ontology analysis 
of isolated ceRNAs showed an enrichment in RNA interference and control of cell 
cycle functions.
CONCLUSION: This study isolated novel genes and functions potentially involved 
in LMNA network of regulation that could be involved in laminopathies such as 
the Hutchinson-Gilford progeria syndrome.

DOI: 10.1186/2043-9113-3-2
PMCID: PMC3563501
PMID: 23317481


48. Value Health. 2013 Jan-Feb;16(1 Suppl):S7-13. doi:
10.1016/j.jval.2012.10.007.  Epub 2012 Nov 14.

Assessing the added value of health technologies: reconciling different 
perspectives.

Drummond M(1), Tarricone R, Torbica A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK. 
mike.drummond@york.ac.uk

Providing universal access to innovative, high-cost technologies leads to 
tensions in today's health care systems. The tension becomes particularly 
evident in the context of scarce resources, where the risk of taking contentious 
coverage decisions increases rapidly. To ensure economic sustainability, the 
payers of health care think that the benefits from the use of the new 
technologies need to be commensurate with the costs. Therefore, many 
jurisdictions have programs of health technology assessment, which often results 
in restrictions of access to care, either through complete refusal to reimburse 
the technology or its restriction of use to only a subset of the eligible 
patient population. However, manufacturers feel that they should be adequately 
rewarded for their innovations and require sufficient funds to invest in further 
research. Finally, patients perceive these technologies to have added benefits, 
and so they are concerned when they are denied access. If sustainable access to 
health care is to be maintained in the future, approaches are needed to 
reconcile these different perspectives. This article explores the approaches, in 
both methods and policy, to help bring about this reconciliation. These include 
rethinking the notion of social value (on the part of payers), aligning 
manufacturers' research more closely with societal objectives, and increasing 
patient participation in health technology assessment.

Copyright Â© 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.10.007
PMID: 23317646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. J Food Prot. 2013 Jan;76(1):72-8. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-12-144.

Shelf-life evaluation of natural antimicrobials for Concord and Niagara grape 
juices.

Siricururatana P(1), Iyer MM, Manns DC, Churey JJ, Worobo RW, Padilla-Zakour OI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, Cornell University, New York State Agricultural 
Experiment Station, Geneva, New York 14456, USA.

This study was conducted to evaluate the effectiveness of natural antimicrobials 
for shelf-life extension of cold-filled still and carbonated Concord and Niagara 
grape juices, which have traditionally been preserved with chemical 
preservatives. Commercial juices were inoculated with a spoilage yeast cocktail 
of Dekkera, Kluveromyces, Brettanomyces, and Zygosaccharomyces at 10(2) and 
10(4) CFU/ml. The following agents were added to still juices: no preservative 
(negative control), 0.05% potassium sorbate plus 0.05% sodium benzoate (positive 
control), 0.1 or 0.2% cultured dextrose, 250 ppm of dimethyldicarbonate (DMDC), 
10 or 20 ppm of natamycin, and 250 ppm of DMDC plus 5 or 10 ppm of natamycin. 
Carbonated juice was treated with the negative control, positive control, and 
250 ppm of DMDC plus 10 ppm of natamycin. Microbial stability of samples was 
assessed every 2 weeks during 6 months of storage at 21Â°C by yeast enumeration 
and measurement of turbidity, pH, and Â°Brix. Juices were deemed spoiled when 
yeast counts exceeded 10(6) CFU/ml. Cultured dextrose was not effective at 
levels tested in both types of juice. The most promising results were obtained 
with DMDC and natamycin combination treatments in still Niagara juice and in 
carbonated Concord and Niagara juices. In these treatments, shelf-life extension 
similar to that of the positive control (153 to 161 days) was achieved while 
maintaining similar turbidity, pH, and Â°Brix. Spoiled juices had lower pH and 
Â°Brix values and higher turbidity due to microbial activity and increased in 
microbial levels.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-12-144
PMID: 23317859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. J Food Prot. 2013 Jan;76(1):99-107. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-12-045.

Fresh meat packaging: consumer acceptance of modified atmosphere packaging 
including carbon monoxide.

Grebitus C(1), Jensen HH, Roosen J, Sebranek JG.

Author information:
(1)Morrison School of Agribusiness and Resource Management, Arizona State 
University, 7231 East Sonoran Arroyo Mall, Mesa, Arizona 85212, USA. 
carola.grebitus@asu.edu

Consumers' perceptions and evaluations of meat quality attributes such as color 
and shelf life influence purchasing decisions, and these product attributes can 
be affected by the type of fresh meat packaging system. Modified atmosphere 
packaging (MAP) extends the shelf life of fresh meat and, with the inclusion of 
carbon monoxide (CO-MAP), achieves significant color stabilization. The 
objective of this study was to assess whether consumers would accept specific 
packaging technologies and what value consumers place on ground beef packaged 
under various atmospheres when their choices involved the attributes of color 
and shelf life. The study used nonhypothetical consumer choice experiments to 
determine the premiums that consumers are willing to pay for extended shelf life 
resulting from MAP and for the "cherry red" color in meat resulting from CO-MAP. 
The experimental design allowed determination of whether consumers would 
discount foods with MAP or CO-MAP when (i) they are given more detailed 
information about the technologies and (ii) they have different levels of 
individual knowledge and media exposure. The empirical analysis was conducted 
using multinomial logit models. Results indicate that consumers prefer an 
extension of shelf life as long as the applied technology is known and 
understood. Consumers had clear preferences for brighter (aerobic and CO) red 
color and were willing to pay $0.16/lb ($0.35/kg) for each level of change to 
the preferred color. More information on MAP for extending the shelf life and on 
CO-MAP for stabilizing color decreased consumers' willingness to pay. An 
increase in personal knowledge and media exposure influenced acceptance of 
CO-MAP negatively. The results provide quantitative measures of how packaging 
affects consumers' acceptance and willingness to pay for products. Such 
information can benefit food producers and retailers who make decisions about 
investing in new packaging methods.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-12-045
PMID: 23317863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2013 Feb;17(2):207-13. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.12.0160.

Effectiveness of active case-finding strategies in tuberculosis control in 
Kampala, Uganda.

Mupere E(1), Schiltz NK, Mulogo E, Katamba A, Nabbuye-Sekandi J, Singer ME.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatrics and Child Health, School of Medicine College of 
Health Sciences, Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda. mupez@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Passive case finding (PCF) is the strategy implemented by most 
developing countries to detect new cases of tuberculosis (TB), but detection 
rates remain low. Active case finding (ACF) is an alternative strategy, although 
cost is a barrier to implementation. We estimated the cost-effectiveness of a 
city-wide ACF programme in Kampala, Uganda, compared to the PCF strategy.
METHODS: We developed a decision tree and Markov model to compare ACF vs. PCF 
across several outcome measures. Parameter estimates for costs, probabilities 
and utility scores were obtained from published reports and peer-reviewed 
journal articles. The main outcome measures were TB cases detected, deaths 
averted, life years saved (LYS) and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: Our model found that ACF implemented city-wide would result in an 
additional 1594 TB cases detected in 1 year, 675 deaths averted over a 5-year 
period, 21,928 LYS, and would cost an additional US$109 per additional QALY. The 
25-34 year age group received most health benefits (556 cases detected, 229 
deaths averted, 8058 LYS), and the programme was most cost-effective in the 
45-54 year age group (US$51/QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: ACF is an effective strategy for TB control and improving quality 
of life and is also cost-effective.

DOI: 10.5588/ijtld.12.0160
PMID: 23317956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Int Perspect Sex Reprod Health. 2012 Dec;38(4):196-204. doi: 10.1363/3819612.

The timing of sexual debut among Chinese youth.

Guo W(1), Wu Z, Qiu Y, Chen G, Zheng X.

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Nanjing University, Nanjing, 
People's Republic of China. xzheng@pku.edu.cn

CONTEXT: The age at sexual debut is declining in China, but little is known 
about the relationship between the social and demographic characteristics of 
Chinese youth and the timing of debut.
METHODS: Data were drawn from the 2009 National Youth Reproductive Health 
Survey, which collected background information and age at sexual debut from 
22,300 unmarried youth aged 15-24. Life table analysis was used to estimate the 
gender-specific distributions of sexual debut by age, according to urban or 
rural residence and by region. Cox proportional hazard regression models were 
then employed to identify characteristics associated with the timing of debut 
among males and females.
RESULTS: The mean age at sexual debut was 22.8 years (22.5 years for men and 
23.1 years for women). Sexual debut before age 18 was rare for both genders, and 
ages 21-24 appear to be the normative range for sexual debut. Life table 
analysis found that debut was earlier for males than for females, for those 
living in a rural area than for those in urban areas, and for those living in 
western China than for those in other regions. In multivariate hazard regression 
analysis, males had a 30% greater risk of experiencing sexual debut within each 
year of age than did females. Living in a household with both biological 
parents, having a father with a junior or senior high school education, being a 
college graduate and living in an urban area were associated with a reduced risk 
of experiencing sexual debut.
CONCLUSION: This study provides insight into the basic patterns and social and 
demographic correlates of sexual debut among Chinese youth.

DOI: 10.1363/3819612
PMID: 23318169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Ann Intern Med. 2013 Jan 15;158(2):84-92. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-158-2-201301150-00002.

Economic savings versus health losses: the cost-effectiveness of generic 
antiretroviral therapy in the United States.

Walensky RP(1), Sax PE, Nakamura YM, Weinstein MC, Pei PP, Freedberg KA, Paltiel 
AD, Schackman BR.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2013 Jan 15;158(2):133-4.
    Ann Intern Med. 2013 May 21;158(10):776.
    Ann Intern Med. 2013 May 21;158(10):776-7.

BACKGROUND: U.S. HIV treatment guidelines recommend branded once-daily, 1-pill 
efavirenz-emtricitabine-tenofovir as first-line antiretroviral therapy (ART). 
With the anticipated approval of generic efavirenz in the United States, a 
once-daily, 3-pill alternative (generic efavirenz, generic lamivudine, and 
tenofovir) will decrease cost but may reduce adherence and virologic 
suppression.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the clinical effect, costs, and cost-effectiveness of a 
3-pill, generic-based regimen compared with a branded, coformulated regimen and 
to project the potential national savings in the first year of a switch to 
generic-based ART.
DESIGN: Mathematical simulation of HIV disease.
SETTING: United States.
PATIENTS: HIV-infected persons.
INTERVENTION: No ART (for comparison); 3-pill, generic-based ART; and branded 
ART.
MEASUREMENTS: Quality-adjusted life expectancy, costs, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) in dollars per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY).
RESULTS: Compared with no ART, generic-based ART has an ICER of $21,100/QALY. 
Compared with generic-based ART, branded ART increases lifetime costs by $42,500 
and per-person survival gains by 0.37 QALYs for an ICER of $114,800/QALY. 
Estimated first-year savings, if all eligible U.S. patients start or switch to 
generic-based ART, are $920 million. Most plausible assumptions about 
generic-based ART efficacy and costs lead to branded ART ICERs greater than 
$100,000/QALY.
LIMITATION: The efficacy and price reduction associated with generic drugs are 
unknown, and estimates are intended to be conservative.
CONCLUSION: Compared with a slightly less effective generic-based regimen, the 
cost-effectiveness of first-line branded ART exceeds $100,000/QALY. 
Generic-based ART in the United States could yield substantial budgetary savings 
to HIV programs.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: National Institute of Allergy and Infectious Diseases.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-158-2-201301150-00002
PMCID: PMC3664029
PMID: 23318310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Am J Psychiatry. 2013 Mar;170(3):324-33. doi: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2012.12050599.

Comorbidities and mortality in persons with schizophrenia: a Swedish national 
cohort study.

Crump C(1), Winkleby MA, Sundquist K, Sundquist J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and the Stanford Prevention Research Center, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA. kccrump@stanford.edu

OBJECTIVE: Schizophrenia is associated with premature mortality, but the 
specific causes and pathways are unclear. The authors used outpatient and 
inpatient data for a national population to examine the association between 
schizophrenia and mortality and comorbidities.
METHOD: This was a national cohort study of 6,097,834 Swedish adults, including 
8,277 with schizophrenia, followed for 7 years (2003-2009) for mortality and 
comorbidities diagnosed in any outpatient or inpatient setting nationwide.
RESULTS: On average, men with schizophrenia died 15 years earlier, and women 12 
years earlier, than the rest of the population, and this was not accounted for 
by unnatural deaths. The leading causes were ischemic heart disease and cancer. 
Despite having twice as many health care system contacts, schizophrenia patients 
had no increased risk of nonfatal ischemic heart disease or cancer diagnoses, 
but they had an elevated mortality from ischemic heart disease (adjusted hazard 
ratio for women, 3.33 [95% CI=2.73-4.05]; for men, 2.20 [95% CI=1.83-2.65]) and 
cancer (adjusted hazard ratio for women, 1.71 [95% CI=1.38-2.10; for men, 1.44 
[95% CI=1.15-1.80]). Among all people who died from ischemic heart disease or 
cancer, schizophrenia patients were less likely than others to have been 
diagnosed previously with these conditions (for ischemic heart disease, 26.3% 
compared with 43.7%; for cancer, 73.9% compared with 82.3%). The association 
between schizophrenia and mortality was stronger among women and the employed. 
Lack of antipsychotic treatment was also associated with elevated mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Schizophrenia patients had markedly premature mortality, and the 
leading causes were ischemic heart disease and cancer, which appeared to be 
underdiagnosed. Preventive interventions should prioritize primary health care 
tailored to this population, including more effective risk modification and 
screening for cardiovascular disease and cancer.

DOI: 10.1176/appi.ajp.2012.12050599
PMID: 23318474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Regul Pept. 2013 Feb 10;181:17-21. doi: 10.1016/j.regpep.2012.12.012. Epub
2013  Jan 11.

The C-terminal extension of exendin-4 provides additional metabolic stability 
when added to GLP-1, while there is minimal effect of truncating exendin-4 in 
anaesthetized pigs.

Simonsen L(1), Holst JJ, Madsen K, Deacon CF.

Author information:
(1)University of Copenhagen, Department of Biomedical Sciences, Panum Institute, 
Blegdamsvej 3, 2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark.

The most striking sequence difference between glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1)(2) 
and the longer-acting GLP-1 receptor agonist, exendin-4 (Ex-4),(3) is the 
nine-amino acid COOH-terminal extension of Ex-4. We investigated the 
contribution of this extension to the survival time of Ex-4. We assessed the 
overall metabolism of GLP-1, Ex-4, a COOH-terminally extended GLP-1 peptide 
(GLP-1+Ex(31-39); GLP-Ex),(4) and a COOH-terminally truncated exendin peptide 
(Ex(1-30)) in anaesthetized, catheterized pigs, with focus on the extraction 
across the kidneys and a peripheral tissue (a hindleg, representing muscle, 
adipose- and connective tissue). Peptide analysis was carried out with assays 
against the mid-region of the peptides, whereby the role of dipeptidyl 
peptidase-4 (DPP-4)(5) mediated NH(2)-terminal degradation could be disregarded. 
The half-life of GLP-1 was significantly increased when the COOH-terminal 
extension of Ex-4 was added (GLP-1 4.8Â±3.3min; GLP-Ex 19.5Â±3.3min). In contrast, 
there was no effect of truncating Ex-4 (Ex-4 32.4Â±4.1min; Ex(1-30) 28.4Â±1.7min). 
Ex-4 and Ex(1-30) were cleared solely by the kidneys at rates corresponding to 
the glomerular filtration rate (GFR),(6) while GLP-1 and GLP-Ex were cleared by 
both the kidneys and peripheral tissues. Both extraction rates were, however, 
significantly reduced with GLP-Ex compared to GLP-1. The renal clearance rate of 
GLP-1 greatly exceeded GFR, while GLP-Ex was cleared at a rate resembling GFR. 
In conclusion, the COOH-terminal extension of Ex-4 contributes minimally to the 
increased survival time of Ex-4, while addition of this sequence to GLP-1 
significantly reduces its clearance.

Copyright Â© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.regpep.2012.12.012
PMID: 23318502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Clin Obstet Gynecol. 2013 Mar;56(1):55-64. doi: 10.1097/GRF.0b013e3182823797.

Cost-effectiveness of cervical cancer prevention.

Esselen KM(1), Feldman S.

Author information:
(1)Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Cost-effectiveness analyses are an important tool for the evaluation and 
modification of many health care services. Given the variety of screening tests 
and treatments available for cervical cancer screening and prevention, the costs 
associated with these options and with their alternatives, and the differences 
in resources and settings in which these tests are applied worldwide, 
cost-effectiveness analyses evaluation can be very useful to help determine best 
practices.

DOI: 10.1097/GRF.0b013e3182823797
PMID: 23318570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Eur J Pediatr. 2013 May;172(5):623-30. doi: 10.1007/s00431-012-1925-z. Epub
2013  Jan 15.

Relation between biomarkers and clinical severity in patients with 
Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome.

OlÃ¡h AV(1), SzabÃ³ GP, Varga J, Balogh L, CsÃ¡bi G, CsÃ¡kvÃ¡ry V, Erwa W, Balogh I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Medical and Health Science Center, 
University of Debrecen, 98 Nagyerdei krt., Debrecen 4032, Hungary. 
olaha@med.unideb.hu

Smith-Lemli-Opitz syndrome (SLOS), a multiple congenital anomaly with severe 
mental retardation, is caused by decreased activity of 7-dehydrocholesterol 
reductase. Fifteen Hungarian patients were diagnosed with SLOS on the basis of 
clinical symptoms, serum cholesterol, 7-dehydrocholesterol, and molecular 
genetic testing. Their age at the time of diagnosis in mild SLOS (n = 4, 
clinical score <20) was 0.5-18 years, cholesterol was 2.37 Â± 0.8 mmol/L, and 
7DHC was 0.38 Â± 0.14 mmol/L. In the group of typical SLOS (n = 7, score 20-50), 
the diagnosis was set up earlier (age of 0.1-7 years); t-cholesterol was 1.47 Â± 
0.7 mmol/L, and 7DHC was 0.53 Â± 0.20 mmol/L. Patients with severe SLOS (n = 4, 
clinical score > 50) died as newborns and had the lowest t-cholesterol (0.66 Â± 
0.27 mmol/L), and 7DHC was 0.47 Â± 0.14 mmol/L. Correlation coefficient with 
clinical severity was 0.74 for initial t-cholesterol and 0.669 for Cho/7DHC. 
Statistically significant difference was between the initial t-cholesterol of 
mild and severe SLOS (p = 0.01), and between the Cho/7DHC ratios of groups (p = 
0.004). In severe SLOS, the percentage of Î±-lipoprotein was significantly lower 
than in typical (p = 0.003) and mild SLOS (p = 0.004). Although serum albumin, 
total bilirubin, and hemostasis parameters remained in the reference range 
during cholesterol supplementation (n = 10) combined with statin therapy (n = 
9), increase of aspartate aminotransferase and alanine aminotransferase in 50 % 
of the patients probably refers to a reversible alteration of liver function; 
therefore, statin therapy was suspended.
CONCLUSION: life expectancy is fundamentally determined by the initial 
t-cholesterol, but dehydrocholesterol and Î±-lipoprotein have prognostic value. 
Accumulation of hepatotoxic DHC may inhibit the synthesis of Î±-lipoproteins, 
decreasing the reverse cholesterol transport. During statin therapy, we suggest 
monitoring of lipid parameters and liver function.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-012-1925-z
PMID: 23319240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. BMC Public Health. 2013 Jan 15;13:36. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-36.

Similar decline in mortality rate of older persons with and without type 2 
diabetes between 1993 and 2004 the Icelandic population-based Reykjavik and 
AGES-Reykjavik cohort studies.

Olafsdottir E(1), Aspelund T, Sigurdsson G, Benediktsson R, Thorsson B, Harris 
TB, Launer LJ, Eiriksdottir G, Gudnason V.

Author information:
(1)Icelandic Heart Association Research Institute, Kopavogur, Iceland.

BACKGROUND: A decline in mortality rates due to cardiovascular diseases and 
all-cause mortality has led to increased life expectancy in the Western world in 
recent decades. At the same time, the prevalence of type 2 diabetes, a disease 
associated with a twofold excess risk of cardiovascular disease and mortality, 
has been increasing. The objective of this study was to estimate the secular 
trend of cardiovascular and all-cause mortality rates in two population-based 
cohorts of older persons, with and without type 2 diabetes, examined 11âyears 
apart.
METHODS: 1506 participants (42% men) from the population-based Reykjavik Study, 
examined during 1991-1996 (median 1993), mean age 75.0âyears, and 4814 
participants (43% men) from the AGES-Reykjavik Study, examined during 2002-2006 
(median 2004), mean age 77.2âyears, age range in both cohorts 70-87âyears. The 
main outcome measures were age-specific mortality rates due to cardiovascular 
disease and all causes, over two consecutive 5.7- and 5.3-year follow-up 
periods.
RESULTS: A 32% decline in cardiovascular mortality rate and a 19% decline in 
all-cause mortality rate were observed between 1993 and 2004. The decline was 
greater in those with type 2 diabetes, as illustrated by the decline in the 
adjusted hazard ratio of cardiovascular mortality in individuals with diabetes 
compared to those without diabetes, from 1.88 (95% CI 1.24-2.85) in 1993 to 1.46 
(95% CI 1.11-1.91) in 2004. We also observed a concurrent decrease in major 
cardiovascular risk factors in both those with and without diabetes. A higher 
proportion of persons with diabetes received glucose-lowering, hypertensive and 
lipid-lowering medication in 2004.
CONCLUSIONS: A decline in cardiovascular and all-cause mortality rates was 
observed in older persons during the period 1993-2004, in both those with and 
without type 2 diabetes. This decline may be partly explained by improvements in 
cardiovascular risk factors and medical treatment over the period studied. 
However, type 2 diabetes still persists as an independent risk factor for 
cardiovascular mortality.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-36
PMCID: PMC3626863
PMID: 23320535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2013 Feb;61(2):237-42. doi: 10.1111/jgs.12077. Epub 2013
Jan  15.

Midlife physical activity preserves lower extremity function in older adults: 
age gene/environment susceptibility-Reykjavik study.

Chang M(1), Saczynski JS, Snaedal J, Bjornsson S, Einarsson B, Garcia M, 
Aspelund T, Siggeirsdottir K, Gudnason V, Launer LJ, Harris TB, Jonsson PV.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Research Center, Landspitali University Hospital, Reykjavik, 
Iceland. changmilan@gmail.com

OBJECTIVES: To examine the long-term association between midlife physical 
activity (PA) and lower extremity function (LEF) in late life.
DESIGN: Longitudinal study with an average of 25 years of follow-up.
SETTING: Community-dwelling old population in Reykjavik, Iceland.
PARTICIPANTS: Four thousand seven hundred fifty-three community-dwelling men and 
women (mean age 76 Â± 6) in Reykjavik, Iceland.
MEASUREMENTS: On the basis of weekly hours of regular PA reported at the midlife 
examination, participants were classified as active or inactive. Measures of LEF 
in late life were gait speed on a 6-m walk, Timed Up and Go (TUG), and knee 
extension (KE) strength tests. Linear regression analysis was used to examine 
the association.
RESULTS: Participants who were active in midlife had significantly better LEF 
(faster gait speed, Î² = 0.50, P â¤ .001; faster TUG time, Î² = -0.53 P â¤ .001; 
stronger KE strength, Î² = 1.3, P â¤ .001) in late life than those who were not 
active in midlife after adjusting for sociodemographic and cardiovascular risk 
factors. After adjustment for cognitive function in late life (speed of 
processing, memory, and executive function), participants who were active in 
midlife had significantly faster gait speed (Î² = 0.04, P â¤ .001), faster TUG 
time (Î² = -0.34, P â¤ .001), and greater KE strength (Î² = 0.87, P â¤ .001) in old 
age than those who were not active in midlife.
CONCLUSION: Regular PA in midlife is associated with better performance of LEF 
in later life, even after controlling for late-life cognitive function.

Â© 2013, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation Â© 2013, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.12077
PMCID: PMC4205047
PMID: 23320618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Acta Oncol. 2013 Feb;52(2):233-8. doi: 10.3109/0284186X.2012.744142.

Rehabilitation of older cancer patients.

Balducci L(1), Fossa SD.

Author information:
(1)H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL, USA. lodovico.balducci@moffitt.org

Cancer is a disease of aging. With the aging of the population and the improved 
survival of cancer patients, rehabilitation of older cancer survival is an 
increasingly common problem.
DEFINITION AND ASSESSMENT OF AGING: Age may be constructed as a progressive 
reduction in functional reserve of multiple organ systems leading to decreased 
life expectancy and reduced stress tolerance. Physiologic age may be different 
from chronologic age and is best assessed with a comprehensive geriatric 
assessment (CGA). The goals of cancer treatment in the older aged person include 
prolongation of active life expectancy that is prevention of functional 
dependence.
CANCER CONDITION IN WHICH REHABILITATION OF OLDER INDIVIDUALS MAY BE NEEDED: 
Cancer and cancer treatment may accelerate physiologic aging. Rehabilitation is 
especially necessary in the case of curable malignancies or malignancies for 
which a prolonged survival is likely.
REHABILITATION NEEDS IN OLDER CANCER SURVIVORS: Long-term complications of 
cancer treatment that may compromise life expectancy and functional independence 
include fatigue cognitive decline and peripheral neuropathy. This paper reviews 
the risk factors and the management of these complications.
CONCLUSIONS: The number of older cancer survivors is expected to increase with 
the aging of the population. Prevention and management of fatigue, cognitive 
decline and peripheral neuropathy appear as the most important issue to prolong 
the active life expectancies of these individuals.

DOI: 10.3109/0284186X.2012.744142
PMID: 23320771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. J Med Econ. 2013;16(3):407-14. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.766200. Epub 2013
Jan  22.

Cost-effectiveness of dabigatran etexilate in the prevention of stroke and 
systemic embolism in patients with atrial fibrillation in Belgium.

Wouters H(1), Thijs V, Annemans L.

Author information:
(1)SCS Boehringer Ingelheim Comm.V, Brussels, Belgium. 
hanne.wouters@boehringer-ingelheim.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of dabigatran etexilate 
('dabigatran') vs vitamin K antagonists (VKAs) in the Belgian healthcare setting 
for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism (SE) in patients with 
non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF).
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: A Markov model was used to calculate the 
cost-effectiveness of dabigatran vs VKAs in Belgium, whereby warfarin was 
considered representative for the VKA class. Efficacy and safety data were taken 
from the Randomized Evaluation of Long-Term Anticoagulation Therapy (RE-LY) 
trial and a network meta-analysis. Local resource use and unit costs were 
included in the model. Effectiveness was expressed in Quality Adjusted 
Life-Years (QALYs). The model outcomes were total costs, total QALYs, 
incremental costs, incremental QALYs and the incremental cost-effectiveness 
