
Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2012.11.112
PMID: 23228663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Am J Kidney Dis. 2013 Apr;61(4):646-8. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2012.11.030. Epub
 2012 Dec 8.

Proteinuria and life expectancy.

Turin TC, Tonelli M, Manns BJ, Ahmed SB, Ravani P, James M, Hemmelgarn BR.

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2013 Aug;62(2):395-6.
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2013 Aug;62(2):396.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2012.11.030
PMID: 23228947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Indian J Public Health. 2012 Jul-Sep;56(3):189-95. doi: 
10.4103/0019-557X.104217.

Aging: the triumph of humanity-are we prepared to face the challenge?

Singh Z(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, Pondicherry Institute of Medical Sciences, 
Pondicherry, India. drzile_singh@yahoo.com

Advances in medicine have increased the life expectancy resulting in an increase 
in the geriatric population all over the world, and their proportion will only 
continue to rise in the coming years. It is known that the elderly bear a 
significant burden of morbidity, which is why health systems globally 
spearheaded by the WHO are waking up to the need for better geriatric health 
services. This includes India, whose health system continues to grapple with the 
health challenges of communicable and noncommunicable diseases. This article 
enumerates the various government policies and programs, constitutional and 
legal provisions available for the care of the elderly, and concludes that they 
are grossly inadequate to deal with the various physical, psychological, and 
emotional needs of the aging population. Mainstreaming of geriatric health to 
address the health needs of the elderly at all levels of health care, both in 
the public and the private sectors, giving due importance to multidimensional 
rehabilitative services and terminal care, involving NGOs and voluntary 
organizations, and stepping up social security in old age are the recommended 
measures for improving geriatric health in India.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-557X.104217
PMID: 23229210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Int J Clin Pharm. 2013 Apr;35(2):181-4. doi: 10.1007/s11096-012-9731-2. Epub
 2012 Dec 11.

Patients with advanced lung cancer: is there scope to discontinue inappropriate 
medication?

Todd A(1), Williamson S, Husband A, Baqir W, Mahony M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Health and Well-being, Faculty of Applied Sciences, 
University of Sunderland, Wharncliffe Street, Sunderland, SR1 3SD, UK. 
adam.todd@durham.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Polypharmacy-taking five or medications per day-is common in lung 
cancer patients. This patient group is prescribed medication to control acute 
symptoms associated with cancer and also to prevent or treat other long-term 
conditions. These medications increase the pill burden for the patient and also 
the probability of developing a drug-related toxicity.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the prevalence of inappropriate medication in patients 
taking erlotinib for the treatment of advanced non-small cell lung cancer.
METHOD: This was a multicentre study across three sites in the North of England. 
Medication histories for patients receiving erlotinib were retrospectively 
extracted from medical notes and assessed by the clinical team (a consultant 
pharmacist, nurse specialist and clinical oncologist) to determine if the 
medication was appropriate or inappropriate. The clinical team considered the 
following factors when deciding if the medication was appropriate or 
inappropriate: remaining life expectancy of the patient, time until benefit of 
the treatment, goals of care and treatment targets.
RESULTS: Among the 20 patients assessed, 19 (95 %) according to the clinical 
team were taking medications that were inappropriate. The mean number of 
medications the patients were taking was 8 (range 1-16) and the most common 
class of medication used were drugs affecting the Central Nervous System. In 
addition, there were 11 patients (55 %) who were taking erlotinib in combination 
with a proton pump inhibitor (PPI)-a clinically significant drug interaction 
that impairs the absorption of erlotinib.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients taking erlotinib for the treatment of advanced non-small 
cell lung cancer take many inappropriate medications for the treatment or 
prevention of long-term conditions. These patients should have their medications 
reviewed in the context of their original therapeutic goals.

DOI: 10.1007/s11096-012-9731-2
PMID: 23229875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Health Econ. 2013 Dec;22(12):1496-506. doi: 10.1002/hec.2894. Epub 2012 Dec
11.

Would you rather be ill now, or later?

Attema AE(1), Versteegh MM.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, Erasmus University Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The time tradeoff (TTO) method is frequently used to calculate the quality 
adjustment of the quality adjusted life year and is therefore an important 
element in the calculation of the benefits of medical interventions. New 
specifications of TTO, known as 'lead time' TTO and 'lag time' TTO, have been 
developed to overcome methodological issues of the 'classic' TTO. In the lead 
time TTO, ill-health is explicitly placed in the future, after a period of good 
health, whereas in lag time TTO, a health state starts immediately and is 
followed by a 'lag time' of good health. In this study, we take advantage of 
these timing properties of lead and lag time TTO. In particular, we use data 
from a previous study that employed lead and lag time TTO to estimate their 
implied discounting parameters. We show that individuals prefer being ill later, 
rather than now, with larger per-period discount rates for longer durations of 
the health states.

Copyright © 2012 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2894
PMID: 23229912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Przegl Epidemiol. 2012;66(3):547-54.

[Study on engagement in health promotion at the workplace of non-public health 
providers in Poland].

[Article in Polish]

Juszczyk G(1), Pergoł M, Olejniczak D, Walewska-Zielecka B, Slusarczyk J.

Author information:
(1)Katedra i Zakład Zdrowia Publicznego Warszawskiego Uniwersytetu Medycznego. 
grzegorz.juszczyk@wum.edu.pl

Increasing life expectancy in Europe impose a necessity to extend a work ability 
span. Appropriate health status of working population requires not merely 
curative care in case of diagnosed diseases but also comprehensive preventive 
care.
AIM: The article provides results of a study on engagement of the Polish 
companies that are covered by a private employee health plans in certain 
workplace health promotion activities.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: [corrected] 411 companies out of invited 3512 (11,7% 
participation rate) took part in the study performed in 2011. The majority of 
study group were large companies (over 50 employees--74%), and smaller, 
privately owned (less than 50 employees--77%). Companies were asked questions 
using ENWHP checklist tool on supporting employees in physical activity, smoking 
cessation, healthy diet and coping with stress.
RESULTS: In general, 44% of the companies declared any engagement in employee 
health promotion. Results showed that companies support mainly physical activity 
(27% of a study group) and quitting smoking (19%). Researched employers rarely 
offered support in healthy diet (8%) or stress reduction (5%). There is also a 
significant relation between higher engagement rate in health promotion among 
companies that have implemented a special health policy and detailed action 
plans. However, small enterprises were less likely to provide any preventive 
action to employees. Even if small enterprises decide to implement any health 
promotion they usually were based on a single action without broader planning.

PMID: 23230729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Drugs. 2012 Dec 24;72(18):2385-95. doi: 10.2165/11470250-000000000-00000.

Adalimumab: in non-radiographic axial spondyloarthritis.

Burness CB(1), Deeks ED.

Author information:
(1)Adis, Auckland, New Zealand. demail@springer.com

Adalimumab is a fully human, recombinant, monoclonal IgG1 antibody specific for 
the cytokine tumour necrosis factor-α. It is approved for the treatment of 
various inflammatory disorders, including severe non-radiographic axial 
spondyloarthritis (axSpA). The clinical efficacy of adalimumab (40 mg 
administered subcutaneously every other week) in adult patients meeting the 
Assessment of SpondyloArthritis international Society (ASAS) criteria for axSpA 
but not the modified New York criteria for ankylosing spondylitis (AS) has been 
demonstrated in the pivotal phase III, randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled ABILITY-1 trial (n = 192 randomized). In ABILITY-1, 
adalimumab was effective in improving the signs and symptoms of non-radiographic 
axSpA in patients who had active disease despite treatment with NSAIDs or who 
were intolerant to, or had a contraindication for, NSAIDs. Compared with 
placebo, a significantly greater proportion of patients receiving adalimumab 
40 mg every other week achieved an ASAS 40 response after 12 weeks of treatment 
(primary endpoint). Furthermore, adalimumab significantly decreased inflammation 
in the spine and sacroiliac joints, as measured by MRI, and improved 
spondyloarthritic and general measures of health-related quality of life at 12 
weeks. Efficacy of adalimumab was sustained over the longer term, according to 
data at 68 weeks from an open-label extension of ABILITY-1. Adalimumab was 
generally well tolerated in clinical trials of non-radiographic axSpA; the 
adverse event profile was similar to that in patients with AS or other approved 
indications.

DOI: 10.2165/11470250-000000000-00000
PMID: 23231024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. J Neurosurg Spine. 2013 Feb;18(2):139-46. doi: 10.3171/2012.11.SPINE12224.
Epub  2012 Dec 11.

Revision lumbar surgery in elderly patients with symptomatic pseudarthrosis, 
adjacent-segment disease, or same-level recurrent stenosis. Part 1. Two-year 
outcomes and clinical efficacy: clinical article.

Adogwa O(1), Carr RK, Kudyba K, Karikari I, Bagley CA, Gokaslan ZL, Theodore N, 
Cheng JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA. adogwa@gmail.com

OBJECT: Same-level recurrent lumbar stenosis, pseudarthrosis, and 
adjacent-segment disease (ASD) are potential complications that can occur after 
index lumbar spine surgery, leading to significant discomfort and radicular 
pain. While numerous studies have demonstrated excellent results following index 
lumbar spine surgery in elderly patients (age > 65 years), the effectiveness of 
revision lumbar surgery in this cohort remains unclear. The aim of this study 
was to assess the long-term effectiveness of revision lumbar decompression and 
fusion in the treatment of symptomatic pseudarthrosis, ASD, and same-level 
recurrent stenosis, using validated patient-reported outcomes.
METHODS: After a review of the institutional database, 69 patients who had 
undergone revision neural decompression and instrumented fusion for ASD (28 
patients), pseudarthrosis (17 patients), or same-level recurrent stenosis (24 
patients) were included in this study. Baseline and 2-year scores on the visual 
analog scale for leg pain (VAS-LP), VAS for back pain (VAS-BP), Oswestry 
Disability Index (ODI), and Zung Self-Rating Depression Scale (SDS) as well as 
the time to narcotic independence, time to return to baseline activity level, 
health state utility (EQ-5D, the EuroQol-5D health survey), and physical and 
mental component summary scores of the 12-Item Short-Form Health Survey (SF-12 
PCS and MCS) were assessed.
RESULTS: Compared with the preoperative status, VAS-BP was significantly 
improved 2 years after surgery for ASD (mean ± standard deviation 9 ± 2 vs 4.01 
± 2.56, p = 0.001), pseudarthrosis (7.41 ± 1 vs 5.52 ± 3.08, p = 0.02), and 
same-level recurrent stenosis (7 ± 2.00 vs 5.00 ± 2.34, p = 0.003). The 2-year 
ODI was also significantly improved after surgery for ASD (29 ± 9 vs 23.10 ± 
10.18, p = 0.001), pseudarthrosis (28.47 ± 5.85 vs 24.41 ± 7.75, p = 0.001), and 
same-level recurrent stenosis (30.83 ± 5.28 vs 26.29 ± 4.10, p = 0.003). The 
Zung SDS score and SF-12 MCS did not change appreciably after surgery in any of 
the cohorts, with an overall mean 2-year change of 1.01 ± 5.32 (p = 0.46) and 
2.02 ± 9.25 (p = 0.22), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Data in this study suggest that revision lumbar decompression and 
extension of fusion for symptomatic pseudarthrosis, ASD, and same-level 
recurrent stenosis provides improvement in low-back pain, disability, and 
quality of life and should be considered a viable treatment option for elderly 
patients with persistent or recurrent back and radicular pain. Mental health 
symptoms may be more refractory to revision surgery.

DOI: 10.3171/2012.11.SPINE12224
PMID: 23231354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. J Neurosurg Spine. 2013 Feb;18(2):147-53. doi: 10.3171/2012.11.SPINE12226.
Epub  2012 Dec 11.

Revision lumbar surgery in elderly patients with symptomatic pseudarthrosis, 
adjacent-segment disease, or same-level recurrent stenosis. Part 2. A 
cost-effectiveness analysis: clinical article.

Adogwa O(1), Owens R, Karikari I, Agarwal V, Gottfried ON, Bagley CA, Isaacs RE, 
Cheng JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, USA. owoicho.adogwa@gmail.com

OBJECT: Despite advances in technology and understanding in spinal physiology, 
reoperation for symptomatic adjacent-segment disease (ASD), same-level recurrent 
stenosis, and pseudarthrosis in elderly patients continues to occur. While 
revision lumbar surgery is effective, attention has turned to questions on the 
utility and value of the revision decompression and fusion procedure. To date, 
an analysis of the cost and health state gain associated with revision lumbar 
surgery in elderly patients with symptomatic pseudarthrosis, ASD, or same-level 
recurrent lumbar stenosis has yet to be performed. The aim of this study was to 
assess the long-term outcomes and cost-effectiveness of revision surgery in 
elderly patients with recurrent or persistent back and leg pain.
METHODS: After reviewing their institutional database, the authors found 69 
patients 65 years of age and older who had undergone revision decompression and 
instrumented fusion for back and leg pain associated with pseudarthrosis (17 
patients), same-level recurrent stenosis (24 patients), or ASD (28 patients) and 
included them in this study. Total 2-year back-related medical resource 
utilization and health state values (quality-adjusted life years [QALYs], 
calculated from the EQ-5D, the EuroQol-5D health survey, with US valuation) were 
assessed. Two-year resource use was multiplied by unit costs based on Medicare 
national allowable payment amounts. The mean total 2-year cost per QALY gained 
after revision surgery was assessed.
RESULTS: The mean (± standard deviation) time between the index surgery and 
revision surgery was 3.51 ± 3.63 years. A mean cumulative 2-year gain of 0.35 
QALY was observed after revision surgery. The mean total 2-year cost of revision 
surgery was $28,256 ± $3000 (ASD: $28,829 ± $3812, pseudarthrosis: $28,069 ± 
$2508, same-level recurrent stenosis: $27,871 ± $2375). Revision decompression 
and extension of fusion was associated with a mean 2-year cost of $80,594 per 
QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Revision decompression and fusion provided a significant gain in 
health state utility for elderly patients with symptomatic pseudarthrosis, 
same-level recurrent stenosis, or ASD, with a mean 2-year cost of $80,594 per 
QALY gained. When indicated, revision surgery for symptomatic ASD, same-level 
recurrent stenosis, and pseudarthrosis is a valuable treatment option for 
elderly patients experiencing persistent back and leg pain. Findings in this 
study provided a value measure of surgery that can be compared with future 
cost-per-QALY-gained studies of medical management or alternative surgical 
approaches.

DOI: 10.3171/2012.11.SPINE12226
PMID: 23231358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Health Econ Rev. 2012 Dec 11;2(1):22. doi: 10.1186/2191-1991-2-22.

The effects of public and private health care expenditure on health status in 
sub-Saharan Africa: new evidence from panel data analysis.

Novignon J(1), Olakojo SA, Nonvignon J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria. 
nonjake@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Health care expenditure has been low over the years in developing 
regions of the world. A majority of countries in these regions, especially 
sub-Saharan Africa (SSA), rely on donor grants and loans to finance health care. 
Such expenditures are not only unsustainable but also inadequate considering the 
enormous health care burden in the region. The objectives of this study are to 
determine the effect of health care expenditure on population health status and 
to examine the effect by public and private expenditure sources.
METHODS: The study used panel data from 1995 to 2010 covering 44 countries in 
SSA. Fixed and random effects panel data regression models were fitted to 
determine the effects of health care expenditure on health outcomes.
RESULTS: The results show that health care expenditure significantly influences 
health status through improving life expectancy at birth, reducing death and 
infant mortality rates. Both public and private health care spending showed 
strong positive association with health status even though public health care 
spending had relatively higher impact.
CONCLUSION: The findings imply that health care expenditure remains a crucial 
component of health status improvement in sub-Saharan African countries. 
Increasing health care expenditure will be a significant step in achieving the 
Millennium Development Goals. Further, policy makers need to establish effective 
public-private partnership in allocating health care expenditures.

DOI: 10.1186/2191-1991-2-22
PMCID: PMC3533939
PMID: 23232089


843. Epidemiology. 2013 Jan;24(1):32-4. doi: 10.1097/EDE.0b013e318277f0da.

Air pollution and life expectancy: does cleaner air lengthen life?

Samet JM(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Preventive Medicine, Keck School of Medicine of USC, 
USC Institute for Global Health, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
CA.

Comment on
    Epidemiology. 2013 Jan;24(1):23-31.

DOI: 10.1097/EDE.0b013e318277f0da
PMID: 23232610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


844. Obstet Gynecol. 2013 Jan;121(1):14-24. doi: 10.1097/aog.0b013e3182783c2f.

Prophylactic salpingectomy and delayed oophorectomy as an alternative for BRCA 
mutation carriers.

Kwon JS(1), Tinker A, Pansegrau G, McAlpine J, Housty M, McCullum M, Gilks CB.

Author information:
(1)University of British Columbia and BC Cancer Agency, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada. janice.kwon@vch.ca

Comment in
    Obstet Gynecol. 2013 Jan;121(1):4-6.

OBJECTIVE: Prophylactic bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy is advised for women 
with BRCA mutations, but there are adverse consequences of premature menopause. 
The majority of BRCA-associated ovarian cancers appear to arise in the fallopian 
tube; therefore, salpingectomy may be an alternative to bilateral 
salpingo-oophorectomy. We compared the costs and benefits of salpingectomy with 
bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy among BRCA mutation carriers.
METHODS: We developed a Markov Monte Carlo simulation model to compare three 
strategies for risk reduction in women with BRCA mutations: 1) bilateral 
salpingo-oophorectomy; 2) bilateral salpingectomy; and 3) bilateral 
salpingectomy with delayed oophorectomy. Net health benefits were measured in 
years-of-life expectancy and quality-adjusted life-year expectancy, and the 
primary outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. The model 
estimated the number of future breast and ovarian cancers and cardiovascular 
deaths attributed to premature menopause with each strategy.
RESULTS: Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy was associated with the lowest cost and 
highest life expectancy compared with the other two strategies. When 
quality-of-life measures were included, salpingectomy followed by delayed 
oophorectomy yielded the highest quality-adjusted life expectancy with 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of $37,805 and $89,680 per 
quality-adjusted life-year for BRCA1 and BRCA2, respectively, relative to 
salpingectomy alone. Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy yielded the lowest number 
of future breast and ovarian cancers compared with the other two strategies.
CONCLUSION: Bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy offers the greatest risk reduction 
for breast and ovarian cancer among BRCA mutation carriers. However, when 
considering quality-adjusted life expectancy, bilateral salpingectomy with 
delayed oophorectomy is a cost-effective strategy and may be an acceptable 
alternative for those unwilling to undergo bilateral salpingo-oophorectomy.

DOI: 10.1097/aog.0b013e3182783c2f
PMID: 23232752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. World J Surg. 2013 Jul;37(7):1562-70. doi: 10.1007/s00268-012-1876-6.

Getting the job done: analysis of the impact and effectiveness of the SmileTrain 
program in alleviating the global burden of cleft disease.

Poenaru D(1).

Author information:
(1)BethanyKids at Kijabe Hospital, Box 20, Kijabe 00220, Kenya. 
dpoenaru@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: The study measured the success of SmileTrain, the largest cleft 
charity globally, in alleviating the global burden of disease (GBD). It was done 
by estimating averted disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) and delayed averted 
DALYs because of the global backlog in cleft procedures.
METHODS: Anonymized data for all procedures in the SmileTrain global database 
were analyzed by age, sex, country, region, and surgery type. DALYs averted were 
calculated using life expectancy tables and established and estimated disability 
weights. The cost-effectiveness analysis used mean SmileTrain procedural 
disbursement figures. Sensitivity analysis was performed using various cleft 
incidence rates, life expectancy tables, and disability weights.
RESULTS: During 2003-2010 a total of 536,846 operations were performed on 
364,467 patients-86 % in Southeast Asia and the western Pacific region. 
Procedure numbers increased yearly. Mean age at primary surgery-6.2 years (9.8 
years in Africa)-remained fairly constant over time in each region. Globally, 
2.1-4.7 million DALYs were averted through the operations at a total estimated 
cost of US$196 M. Mean DALYs per patient were 3.8-9.0, and mean cost per DALY 
was $72-$134. Total delayed GBD due to advanced age at surgery was 
191,000-457,000 DALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite an unparalleled number of surgeries performed and yearly 
increase by one charity, the unmet and delayed averted cleft GBD remains 
significant in all regions. Large geographic disparities reflect varied 
challenges regarding access to surgery. Cleft surgeries are cost-effective 
interventions to reduce the global burden of disease (GBD). Future challenges 
include increased collaboration among cleft care providers and a focus on remote 
global areas by building infrastructure and local training.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-012-1876-6
PMID: 23232819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Pediatr Nephrol. 2013 Mar;28(3):357-61. doi: 10.1007/s00467-012-2362-y. Epub
 2012 Dec 12.

Mitochondrial disease--an important cause of end-stage renal failure.

Rahman S, Hall AM.

Comment on
    Pediatr Nephrol. 2013 Mar;28(3):515-9.

Kidneys are highly aerobic organs. They receive roughly a quarter of the cardiac 
output and contain a high density of mitochondria, particularly in the cortical 
tubules, which are required to produce adenosine triphosphate (ATP) in 
sufficient quantity to power the re-uptake of over 98 % of the filtered load. 
Given the dependence of renal function on aerobic metabolism, it is not 
surprising that impairment of normal mitochondrial function-due to insults such 
as ischaemia, drug toxicity and genetic mitochondrial disease-can lead to kidney 
failure. In this edition of Pediatric Nephrology, D'Aco and colleagues (doi: 
10.1007/s00467-012-2354-y ) describe a patient who developed end-stage renal 
failure caused by a pathogenic mutation (m.586G > A) in the gene encoding the 
mitochondrial tRNA for phenylalanine, which adversely affects the translation of 
mitochondrial DNA. The pathogenicity of this mutation was confirmed in cybrid 
studies using fibroblasts obtained from the patient. In light of this report, 
m.586G > A should now be added to the rapidly expanding list of mitochondrial 
and nuclear gene mutations causing mitochondrial disease with renal involvement. 
Furthermore, mitochondrial disease should be considered as an underlying 
aetiology in cases of unexplained renal failure, particularly in the context of 
a multisystem disorder. Renal replacement therapy is an option for patients with 
mitochondrial disease, but life expectancy even with this therapy may be limited 
by co-morbidities.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-012-2362-y
PMID: 23233040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2012 Dec 12;101(25):1609-13. doi:
10.1024/1661-8157/a001143.

[Prevalence of multimorbidity in Switzerland - definition and data sources].

[Article in German]

Bopp M(1), Holzer BM.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Sozial- und Präventivmedizin der Universität Zürich, 
Universitätsspital Zürich. bopp@ifspm.uzh.ch

Despite insufficient data, multimorbidity is in Switzerland an emerging issue on 
the agenda of public health and medical institutions. In this article the most 
current issues for and obstacles towards valid prevalence figures are discussed. 
Available Swiss data sources which could be used for estimating prevalence of 
multimorbidity are illustrated. The biggest current challenge for the 
international research community is to create a uniform definition of 
multimorbidity concerning the types and a minimal number of included chronic 
conditions. Furthermore, to obtain valid and internationally comparable 
prevalence estimates in the future, methodological approaches regarding data 
assessment and the development of a measurement for the burden of multimorbidity 
should be broadly discussed in order to come to a consensus.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157/a001143
PMID: 23233098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Diagn Interv Radiol. 2013 Mar-Apr;19(2):173-80. doi: 
10.4261/1305-3825.DIR.5955-12.1.

Critical limb ischemia: an update for interventional radiologists.

Brazeau NF(1), Pinto EG, Harvey HB, Oliveira GR, Pomerantz BJ, Wicky S, Oklu R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Imaging and Intervention, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

Critical limb ischemia (CLI) is a growing epidemic with bleak patient outcomes. 
A variety of treatment modalities have been adopted to address CLI based on 
comorbidities, life expectancy, and the nature of the arterial disease. With 
advances in technology and treatment strategies, the clinical outcomes of CLI 
patients have significantly improved over recent years. However, despite 
progress, patency rates of both surgical and endovascular interventions, 
limb-salvage and amputation rates are still dismal. We review the epidemiology, 
treatment strategies, imaging modalities, and the microcirculation aspect of 
CLI.

DOI: 10.4261/1305-3825.DIR.5955-12.1
PMID: 23233402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 Aug;68(8):903-13. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/gls239. Epub 2012 Dec 10.

Skew-t fits to mortality data--can a Gaussian-related distribution replace the 
Gompertz-Makeham as the basis for mortality studies?

Clark JS(1), Kaczmarczyk M, Mongiało Z, Ignaczak P, Czajkowski AA, Klęsk P, 
Ciechanowicz A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Biochemistry, Pomeranian Medical 
University, ul. Powstańców Wlkp. 72, 70-111 Szczecin, Poland. 
jeremyclarkmel@gmail.com

Gompertz-related distributions have dominated mortality studies for 187 years. 
However, nonrelated distributions also fit well to mortality data. These compete 
with the Gompertz and Gompertz-Makeham data when applied to data with varying 
extents of truncation, with no consensus as to preference. In contrast, 
Gaussian-related distributions are rarely applied, despite the fact that Lexis 
in 1879 suggested that the normal distribution itself fits well to the right of 
the mode. Study aims were therefore to compare skew-t fits to Human Mortality 
Database data, with Gompertz-nested distributions, by implementing maximum 
likelihood estimation functions (mle2, R package bbmle; coding given). Results 
showed skew-t fits obtained lower Bayesian information criterion values than 
Gompertz-nested distributions, applied to low-mortality country data, including 
1711 and 1810 cohorts. As Gaussian-related distributions have now been found to 
have almost universal application to error theory, one conclusion could be that 
a Gaussian-related distribution might replace Gompertz-related distributions as 
the basis for mortality studies.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/gls239
PMID: 23233550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Ann Acad Med Singap. 2012 Nov;41(11):483-93.

Improvements in end-of-life care with a protocol-based pathway for cancer 
patients dying in a Singapore hospital.

Neo PS(1), Poon MC, Peh TY, Ong SY, Koo WH, Santoso U, Goh CR, Yee AC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Palliative Medicine, National Cancer Centre Singapore, 
Singapore. Neo.S.H@nccs.com.sg

INTRODUCTION: More than half of all deaths in Singapore occur in hospitals. 
Little is known about the quality of care received by dying patients in 
hospitals. The Liverpool Care Pathway (LCP) provides a framework of providing 
good end-of-life care for dying patients and has been used with success in the 
United Kingdom (UK). In this study, we investigate whether adoption of a 
modified LCP in a Singapore hospital translated to better end-of-life care for 
cancer patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The LCP was adapted and implemented as a pilot project on 
an oncology ward in Singapore General Hospital. A baseline review of 30 
consecutive death records was performed, followed by a 4-month pilot and 
post-implementation audit of 30 consecutive patients on the adapted LCP.
RESULTS: Five types of end-of-life symptoms were analysed. There was only 1 
uncontrolled symptom at death in the post-implementation group compared to 24 
uncontrolled symptoms in the retrospective audit group. The prescription of 
breakthrough medications for symptom control increased from 21% in the 
retrospective audit group to 79% in the post-implementation group. Inappropriate 
monitoring was discontinued in 25 patients in the post-implementation group 
compared to none in the retrospective audit group. The documentation of 
resuscitation status and religion of the patient was improved, achieving full 
documentation in the post-implementation group.
CONCLUSION: This study shows promising results for improving end-of-life care in 
cancer patients with a protocol-based pathway in a Singapore hospital. Extension 
of this care pathway to other settings should be explored to maximise its 
benefits to patients dying from all causes in hospital.

PMID: 23235726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. Heart. 2013 Feb;99(4):267-71. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2012-302692. Epub 2012
Dec  12.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of serial measurement of circulating natriuretic 
peptide concentration in chronic heart failure.

Laramée P(1), Wonderling D, Swain S, Al-Mohammad A, Mant J.

Author information:
(1)National Clinical Guideline Centre, Royal College of Physicians, 11 Street 
Andrew's Place, Regent's Park, London, UK. plaramee@outlook.com

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of three monitoring strategies for 
optimising medical therapy in chronic heart failure (CHF).
DESIGN: This analysis was based on six randomised controlled trials. Costs were 
measured from a UK NHS perspective and estimated for patients' lifetime. The 
health outcome was the quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
SETTING: Hospital and community.
PATIENTS: Patients with CHF.
INTERVENTIONS: Serial measurement of natriuretic peptide (NP) by a specialist, 
clinical assessment by a specialist, and usual care in the community.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs, QALYs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER).
RESULTS: Serial NP measurement by a specialist was the most cost-effective 
option in patients with CHF due to left ventricular systolic dysfunction (LVSD), 
showing an ICER of £3304 compared with clinical assessment. Serial NP 
measurement by a specialist was strongly favoured in patients with CHF from any 
cause, for all patients (ICER of £14 694 compared with clinical assessment by a 
specialist) and for the age subgroup ≤75 years (ICER of £2517 compared with 
usual care). However, serial NP measurement by a specialist was dominated (less 
effective and more costly) by alternative strategies in the subgroup age >75 
years with CHF from any cause. Clinical assessment by a specialist of patients 
>75 years of age with CHF from any cause was cost-effective compared with usual 
care (ICER of £11 508).
CONCLUSIONS: Serial measurement of NP concentration by a specialist is the most 
cost-effective strategy for CHF due to LVSD and from any cause, except in the 
subgroup of patients >75 years with CHF from any cause, where treatment guided 
by NP measurement may be harmful and not cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2012-302692
PMID: 23236028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Heart. 2013 Jun;99(11):805-10. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2012-302851. Epub 2012
Dec  12.

Tilt testing is more cost-effective than implantable loop recorder monitoring as 
a means of directing pacing therapy in people with recurrent episodes of 
suspected vasovagal syncope that affect their quality of life or present a high 
risk of injury.

Davis S(1), Westby M, Petkar S, Pitcher D.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, The School of Health and Related 
Research, The University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, 
Sheffield, South Yorkshire S1 4DA, UK. s.davis@shef.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of implantable loop recorders (ILRs) 
and tilt testing (TT) to direct pacing therapy in people with recurrent episodes 
of transient loss of consciousness that are adversely affecting their quality of 
life or represent a high risk of injury and are suspected to be vasovagal.
DESIGN: Decision analytical modelling was used to estimate the costs and 
benefits of diagnostic testing including the costs and benefits of treatment for 
several clinically important arrhythmias following diagnosis.
SETTING: A UK National Health Service and personal social services perspective 
was taken.
PATIENTS: People with recurrent episodes of transient loss of consciousness that 
are adversely affecting their quality of life or represent a high risk of injury 
and which are suspected to be vasovagal.
INTERVENTIONS: The diagnostic test strategies compared were TT alone, TT 
followed by ILR (if TT 'negative'), ILR alone and no further testing.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Benefits measured using quality-adjusted life years and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) are reported.
RESULTS: The ICERs for TT alone, ILR alone and TT followed by ILR were £5960, 
£24 620 and £19 110, respectively, compared with no testing. ILR alone was 
extendedly dominated by the other strategies, meaning that it is never the most 
cost-effective option. Sensitivity analysis found that the cost-effectiveness 
estimates were robust despite the areas of uncertainty identified in the 
evidence and assumptions used to inform the model.
CONCLUSIONS: TT alone is likely to be the most cost-effective strategy in this 
population.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2012-302851
PMID: 23236029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. PLoS One. 2012;7(12):e50941. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0050941. Epub 2012
Dec 6.

Decelerating mortality rates in older ages and its prospects through Lee-Carter 
approach.

Yadav A(1), Yadav S, Kesarwani R.

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Population Sciences (IIPS), Mumbai, India. 
awdhesh.stat@gmail.com

The present study attempts to study the age pattern mortality and prospects 
through Lee-Carter approach. The objectives of the study are to examine the 
trend of mortality decline and life expectancy. Contemporaneously, we have 
projected life expectancy up to 2025, projecting ASDR using Lee-Carter method. 
Life table aging rate (LAR) used to estimate the rate of mortality deceleration. 
Overtime, LAR increased and during recent decade it remained more or less 
unchanged. By age, LAR significant increased in the oldest of old. The slope is 
steepest in the oldest of old in the recent decade. The rates of mortality 
increased in oldest of old as the age group is more vulnerable to chronic 
disease and vulnerable to identifiable risk factors for virtually every disease, 
marked by senility. The analysis revealed that the level of mortality is not 
declining but rate of acceleration is declining and is further expected to 
decline. By the year 2025, the age specific death rates for the age group 5-9 
and 10-14 will go below one per thousand.Life expectancy will attained as high 
as 73 and 79 years for male and female and is further expected to increase 
linearly. 71 percent of total female birth and 57 percent of total male birth 
will survive up to age 70+. Also the findings revealed that mortality rate is 
declining with constant rate up to age 70 and thereafter, the mortality rate 
accelerates and this holds true for both sexes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0050941
PMCID: PMC3516525
PMID: 23236414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


854. Eur Heart J. 2012 Oct;33(20):2508-9.

Economic evaluation in cardiology.

Azevedo LF.

PMID: 23236604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. SAHARA J. 2012;9(2):88-94. doi: 10.1080/17290376.2012.683582.

Peripheral neuropathy and quality of life of adults living with HIV/AIDS in the 
Rulindo district of Rwanda.

Biraguma J(1), Rhoda A.

Author information:
(1)Physiotherapy Department, Kigali Health Institute (KHI), Rwanda. 
juvenalbi@gmail.com

Although the life expectancy of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWH) has increased 
in the past years, they could experience secondary illness such as peripheral 
neuropathy (PN). Therefore, they need to adapt to chronic disablement which 
could affect their quality of life (QoL). The research that informed this 
article aimed at determining the prevalence of PN among adults living with 
HIV/AIDS and attending the outpatients' clinic at Rutongo Hospital in the 
Rulindo district of Rwanda. Another aim was to determine these patients' QoL. A 
cross-sectional descriptive quantitative research design was used. A 
time-constrained method was used to sample 185 adults living with HIV/AIDS and 
attending the outpatients' clinic at Rutongo Hospital. The subjective PN screen 
and the World Health Organization Quality of Life Scale Brief Version were used 
to collect the data. Data were analysed using the Statistical Package for the 
Social Sciences. Student's t-test and one-way analysis of variance were 
performed to determine if significant differences existed between QoL scores in 
participants with and without PN symptoms. The results indicated that 40.5% of 
respondents experienced PN. QoL in participants with PN showed significantly 
lower scores in the physical (p = 0.013) and psychological (p = 0.020) domains 
when compared with those who did not have PN. These results indicate a high 
prevalence of neuropathy among PLWH attending the outpatients' clinic at Rutongo 
Hospital. In addition, patients with neuropathy had lower QoL scores in the 
physical and psychological domains than those without neuropathy symptoms. The 
management of PLWH should therefore include interventions to optimise QoL as 
well as screening for neuropathy symptoms so that sufferers can liaise with 
their medical providers to find medical and supportive therapies that could 
assist them.

DOI: 10.1080/17290376.2012.683582
PMID: 23237043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Scand J Public Health. 2012 Dec;40(9 Suppl):6-22. doi:
10.1177/1403494812459457.

Public health: an overview: Health in Sweden: The National Public Health Report 
2012. Chapter 1.

Danielsson M(1), Talbäck M.

Author information:
(1)Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare, Stockholm, Sweden. 
maria.danielsson@socialstyrelsen.se

DOI: 10.1177/1403494812459457
PMID: 23238399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Scand J Public Health. 2012 Dec;40(9 Suppl):95-120. doi: 
10.1177/1403494812459468.

Elderly people's health: Health in Sweden: The National Public Health Report 
2012. Chapter 5.

Lennartsson C(1), Heimerson I.

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Center, Karolinska Institutet/Stockholm University, Stockholm, 
Sweden. carin.lennartsson@ki.se

DOI: 10.1177/1403494812459468
PMID: 23238403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Diabetes Care. 2013 Apr;36(4):879-86. doi: 10.2337/dc12-0807. Epub 2012 Dec
13.

Comparison of cystic fibrosis-related diabetes with type 1 diabetes based on a 
German/Austrian Pediatric Diabetes Registry.

Konrad K(1), Thon A, Fritsch M, Fröhlich-Reiterer E, Lilienthal E, Wudy SA, Holl 
RW; German/Austrian Diabetes Prospective Documentation Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics II, University Children's Hospital Essen, Essen, 
Germany. Katja.Konrad@uk-essen.de

OBJECTIVE: The prevalence of cystic fibrosis-related diabetes (CFRD) has 
increased with improved life expectancy of patients. Clinical and care 
characteristics were compared with type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) in a 
multicenter analysis of pediatric data.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Auxological and treatment data from 47,227 patients 
aged younger than 21 years with CFRD or T1DM in the German/Austrian Diabetes 
Prospective Documentation Initiative registry were analyzed by multivariable 
mixed regression modeling.
RESULTS: Diabetes onset (mean [interquartile range]) occurred later in 
individuals with CFRD (14.5 [11.8-16.3] years) than in individuals with T1DM 
(8.5 [4.9-11.8] years), with female preponderance in CFRD (59.1% vs. 47.5%; P < 
0.01). CFRD patients had lower BMI standard deviation scores (-0.85 [-1.59 to 
-0.12] vs. +0.52 [-0.10 to +1.16]; P < 0.01) and lower HbA(1c) (6.87% vs. 7.97%; 
P < 0.01). Self-monitoring of blood glucose was more frequent in patients with 
T1DM (4.5 vs. 3.5; P < 0.01); 72% of CFRD patients received insulin. In 
insulin-treated patients, insulin dosage adjusted for age, sex, and diabetes 
duration differed significantly (T1DM: 0.79 IE per kilogram of body weight; 
CFRD: 0.83 IE per kilogram of body weight). Use of short-acting and long-acting 
insulin analogs was significantly more frequent in T1DM (47% vs. 39% and 37% vs. 
28%; both P < 0.05). Metabolic control in CFRD patients without insulin was 
better compared with CFRD on insulin (HbA(1c): 6.00 vs. 7.12; P < 0.01), but 
duration of disease was significantly shorter (0.8 years [0.1-2.4] compared with 
2.4 years [0.6-4.6]). There was no significant difference for BMI standard 
deviations scores between CFRD patients with or without insulin treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric patients with CFRD show clear auxological and metabolic 
differences from those with T1DM, with different treatment choices.

DOI: 10.2337/dc12-0807
PMCID: PMC3609515
PMID: 23238661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Int J Clin Oncol. 2014 Feb;19(1):50-6. doi: 10.1007/s10147-012-0503-8. Epub
2012  Dec 14.

Prognostic factors for patients in postoperative brain metastases from 
surgically resected non-small cell lung cancer.

Sakamoto J(1), Sonobe M, Kobayashi M, Ishikawa M, Kikuchi R, Nakajima D, Yamada 
T, Nakayama E, Takahashi T, Sato T, Chen F, Bando T, Date H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto University 
Hospital, 54 Shogoin, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto, 606-8507, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Postoperative recurrence in non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) 
reduces the life expectancy of patients. In this retrospective study, we 
investigated the prognostic factors in patients with postoperative brain 
metastases from surgical resected non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective chart review of patients who had undergone 
resection for NSCLC between April 2004 and February 2009 and found 65 had 
experienced postoperative brain metastases by March 2010. We reviewed these 
patients for clinicopathological information, treatments and responses to 
treatment, and overall survival.
RESULTS: The 5-year survival rate after the diagnosis of brain metastases was 
15.4 %. Significantly favorable prognostic factors for patients after a 
diagnosis of brain metastases included female gender, adenocarcinoma, a small 
number (1-3) of brain metastases, no extracranial metastasis at the diagnosis of 
brain metastases, radiation treatment (whole-brain radiation and/or stereotactic 
irradiation), and local treatment [stereotactic irradiation and/or surgical 
operation (craniotomy)]. Furthermore, in patients with only brain metastases as 
the postoperative initial recurrence, the favorable positive prognostic factors 
included a small number (1-3) of brain metastases, adjuvant chemotherapy, 
chemotherapy (including adjuvant and other chemotherapy and excluding epidermal 
growth factor receptor-tyrosine kinase inhibitors), and local treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study found that the foregoing clinical characteristics in 
postoperative brain metastases and the administration of treatment contributed 
to patient life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10147-012-0503-8
PMID: 23239054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. Neth Heart J. 2013 Jan;21(1):28-35. doi: 10.1007/s12471-012-0362-y.

The effect of aortic valve replacement on quality of life in symptomatic 
patients with severe aortic stenosis.

van Geldorp MW(1), Heuvelman HJ, Kappetein AP, Busschbach JJ, Takkenberg JJ, 
Bogers AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-thoracic Surgery, Catharina Hospital, PO Box 1350, 5602 
ZA, Eindhoven, the Netherlands, martijn.v.geldorp@cze.nl.

BACKGROUND: Although symptomatic patients with severe aortic stenosis have a 
high disease burden and guidelines recommend aortic valve replacement, many are 
treated conservatively. This study describes to what extent quality of life is 
changed by aortic valve replacement relative to conservative treatment.
METHODS: This observational study followed 132 symptomatic patients with severe 
aortic stenosis who were subjected to an SF-36v2TM Health Survey.
RESULTS: At baseline 84 patients were treated conservatively, 48 were referred 
for aortic valve replacement. In the conservatively treated group 15 patients 
died during a mean follow-up of 18 months (Kaplan-Meier survival was 85 % and 
72 % at one and 2 years respectively) and 22 patients crossed over to the 
surgical group. Of the resulting 70 patients in the surgical group 3 patients 
died during a mean follow-up of 11 months (survival 95 % at 1 year). Physical 
functioning, vitality and general health improved significantly 1 year after 
aortic valve replacement. In conservatively treated patients physical quality of 
life deteriorated over time while general health, vitality and social 
functioning showed a declining trend. Mental health remained stable in both 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Aortic valve replacement improves physical quality of life, general 
health and vitality in patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis. Besides 
having a low life expectancy, conservatively treated patients experience 
deterioration of physical quality of life. Health surveys such as the SF-36v2TM 
can be valuable tools in monitoring the burden of disease for an individual 
patient and offer additional help in treatment decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s12471-012-0362-y
PMCID: PMC3528853
PMID: 23239448


861. Elife. 2012 Dec 13;1:e00051. doi: 10.7554/eLife.00051.

Global divergence in critical income for adult and childhood survival: analyses 
of mortality using Michaelis-Menten.

Hum RJ(1), Jha P, McGahan AM, Cheng YL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Applied Chemistry and Centre for 
Global Engineering , University of Toronto , Toronto , Canada.

Comment in
    Elife. 2012;1:e00340.

Life expectancy has risen sharply in the last 50 years. We applied the classic 
Michaelis-Menten enzyme kinetics to demonstrate a novel mathematical 
relationship of income to childhood (aged 0-5 years) and adult (aged 15-60 
years) survival. We treat income as a substrate that is catalyzed to increase 
survival (from technologies that income buys) for 180 countries from 1970 and 
2007. Michaelis-Menten kinetics permit estimates of maximal survival and, 
uniquely, the critical income needed to achieve half of the period-specific 
maximum. Maximum child and adult survival rose by about 1% per year. Critical 
incomes fell by half for children, but doubled for men. HIV infection and 
smoking account for some, but not all, of the rising critical incomes for adult 
survival. Altering the future cost curve for adult survival will require more 
widespread use of current interventions, most notably tobacco control, but also 
research to identify practicable low-cost drugs, diagnostics, and 
strategies.DOI:http://dx.doi.org/10.7554/eLife.00051.001.

DOI: 10.7554/eLife.00051
PMCID: PMC3510452
PMID: 23240081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: PJ: Senior Editor, eLife. The remaining authors 
have no competing interests to declare.


862. Elife. 2012 Dec 13;1:e00340. doi: 10.7554/eLife.00340.

Enzymes provide demographers with food for thought.

Jit M(1), Gerland P.

Author information:
(1)is in the Modelling and Economics Unit , Health Protection Agency , London , 
UK , and the Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology , London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine , London , United Kingdom mark.jit@hpa.org.uk.

Comment on
    Elife. 2012;1:e00051.

