million [10·4-11·1 million] in 1970 vs 4·0 million [3·8-4·2 million] in 2010). 
In all regions, including those most affected by HIV/AIDS, we noted increases in 
mean ages at death.
INTERPRETATION: Despite global and regional health crises, global life 
expectancy has increased continuously and substantially in the past 40 years. 
Yet substantial heterogeneity exists across age groups, among countries, and 
over different decades. 179 of 187 countries have had increases in life 
expectancy after the slowdown in progress in the 1990s. Efforts should be 
directed to reduce mortality in low-income and middle-income countries. 
Potential underestimation of achievement of the Millennium Development Goal 4 
might result from limitations of demographic data on child mortality for the 
most recent time period. Improvement of civil registration system worldwide is 
crucial for better tracking of global mortality.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61719-X
PMID: 23245603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Lancet. 2012 Dec 15;380(9859):2129-43. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61680-8.

Common values in assessing health outcomes from disease and injury: disability 
weights measurement study for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2010.

Salomon JA(1), Vos T, Hogan DR, Gagnon M, Naghavi M, Mokdad A, Begum N, Shah R, 
Karyana M, Kosen S, Farje MR, Moncada G, Dutta A, Sazawal S, Dyer A, Seiler J, 
Aboyans V, Baker L, Baxter A, Benjamin EJ, Bhalla K, Bin Abdulhak A, Blyth F, 
Bourne R, Braithwaite T, Brooks P, Brugha TS, Bryan-Hancock C, Buchbinder R, 
Burney P, Calabria B, Chen H, Chugh SS, Cooley R, Criqui MH, Cross M, Dabhadkar 
KC, Dahodwala N, Davis A, Degenhardt L, Díaz-Torné C, Dorsey ER, Driscoll T, 
Edmond K, Elbaz A, Ezzati M, Feigin V, Ferri CP, Flaxman AD, Flood L, Fransen M, 
Fuse K, Gabbe BJ, Gillum RF, Haagsma J, Harrison JE, Havmoeller R, Hay RJ, 
Hel-Baqui A, Hoek HW, Hoffman H, Hogeland E, Hoy D, Jarvis D, Karthikeyan G, 
Knowlton LM, Lathlean T, Leasher JL, Lim SS, Lipshultz SE, Lopez AD, Lozano R, 
Lyons R, Malekzadeh R, Marcenes W, March L, Margolis DJ, McGill N, McGrath J, 
Mensah GA, Meyer AC, Michaud C, Moran A, Mori R, Murdoch ME, Naldi L, Newton CR, 
Norman R, Omer SB, Osborne R, Pearce N, Perez-Ruiz F, Perico N, Pesudovs K, 
Phillips D, Pourmalek F, Prince M, Rehm JT, Remuzzi G, Richardson K, Room R, 
Saha S, Sampson U, Sanchez-Riera L, Segui-Gomez M, Shahraz S, Shibuya K, Singh 
D, Sliwa K, Smith E, Soerjomataram I, Steiner T, Stolk WA, Stovner LJ, Sudfeld 
C, Taylor HR, Tleyjeh IM, van der Werf MJ, Watson WL, Weatherall DJ, Weintraub 
R, Weisskopf MG, Whiteford H, Wilkinson JD, Woolf AD, Zheng ZJ, Murray CJ, Jonas 
JB.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, MA, USA. jsalomon@hsph.harvard.edu

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2013 Feb 23;381(9867):628. Jonas, Jost B [added].

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Jan 5;381(9860):23.
    Lancet. 2013 Jan 5;381(9860):23-4.

BACKGROUND: Measurement of the global burden of disease with disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs) requires disability weights that quantify health losses for 
all non-fatal consequences of disease and injury. There has been extensive 
debate about a range of conceptual and methodological issues concerning the 
definition and measurement of these weights. Our primary objective was a 
comprehensive re-estimation of disability weights for the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2010 through a large-scale empirical investigation in which 
judgments about health losses associated with many causes of disease and injury 
were elicited from the general public in diverse communities through a new, 
standardised approach.
METHODS: We surveyed respondents in two ways: household surveys of adults aged 
18 years or older (face-to-face interviews in Bangladesh, Indonesia, Peru, and 
Tanzania; telephone interviews in the USA) between Oct 28, 2009, and June 23, 
2010; and an open-access web-based survey between July 26, 2010, and May 16, 
2011. The surveys used paired comparison questions, in which respondents 
considered two hypothetical individuals with different, randomly selected health 
states and indicated which person they regarded as healthier. The web survey 
added questions about population health equivalence, which compared the overall 
health benefits of different life-saving or disease-prevention programmes. We 
analysed paired comparison responses with probit regression analysis on all 220 
unique states in the study. We used results from the population health 
equivalence responses to anchor the results from the paired comparisons on the 
disability weight scale from 0 (implying no loss of health) to 1 (implying a 
health loss equivalent to death). Additionally, we compared new disability 
weights with those used in WHO's most recent update of the Global Burden of 
Disease Study for 2004.
FINDINGS: 13,902 individuals participated in household surveys and 16,328 in the 
web survey. Analysis of paired comparison responses indicated a high degree of 
consistency across surveys: correlations between individual survey results and 
results from analysis of the pooled dataset were 0·9 or higher in all surveys 
except in Bangladesh (r=0·75). Most of the 220 disability weights were located 
on the mild end of the severity scale, with 58 (26%) having weights below 0·05. 
Five (11%) states had weights below 0·01, such as mild anaemia, mild hearing or 
vision loss, and secondary infertility. The health states with the highest 
disability weights were acute schizophrenia (0·76) and severe multiple sclerosis 
(0·71). We identified a broad pattern of agreement between the old and new 
weights (r=0·70), particularly in the moderate-to-severe range. However, in the 
mild range below 0·2, many states had significantly lower weights in our study 
than previously.
INTERPRETATION: This study represents the most extensive empirical effort as yet 
to measure disability weights. By contrast with the popular hypothesis that 
disability assessments vary widely across samples with different cultural 
environments, we have reported strong evidence of highly consistent results.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61680-8
PMID: 23245605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Lancet. 2012 Dec 15;380(9859):2144-62. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61690-0.

Healthy life expectancy for 187 countries, 1990-2010: a systematic analysis for 
the Global Burden Disease Study 2010.

Salomon JA(1), Wang H, Freeman MK, Vos T, Flaxman AD, Lopez AD, Murray CJ.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
jsalomon@hsph.harvard.edu

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2013 Feb 23;381(9867):628.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Mar 23;381(9871):995.
    Lancet. 2013 Jul 6;382(9886):23.
    Lancet. 2013 Jul 6;382(9886):23-4.

BACKGROUND: Healthy life expectancy (HALE) summarises mortality and non-fatal 
outcomes in a single measure of average population health. It has been used to 
compare health between countries, or to measure changes over time. These 
comparisons can inform policy questions that depend on how morbidity changes as 
mortality decreases. We characterise current HALE and changes over the past two 
decades in 187 countries.
METHODS: Using inputs from the Global Burden of Disease Study (GBD) 2010, we 
assessed HALE for 1990 and 2010. We calculated HALE with life table methods, 
incorporating estimates of average health over each age interval. Inputs from 
GBD 2010 included age-specific information for mortality rates and prevalence of 
1160 sequelae, and disability weights associated with 220 distinct health states 
relating to these sequelae. We computed estimates of average overall health for 
each age group, adjusting for comorbidity with a Monte Carlo simulation method 
to capture how multiple morbidities can combine in an individual. We 
incorporated these estimates in the life table by the Sullivan method to produce 
HALE estimates for each population defined by sex, country, and year. We 
estimated the contributions of changes in child mortality, adult mortality, and 
disability to overall change in population health between 1990 and 2010.
FINDINGS: In 2010, global male HALE at birth was 58·3 years (uncertainty 
interval 56·7-59·8) and global female HALE at birth was 61·8 years (60·1-63·4). 
HALE increased more slowly than did life expectancy over the past 20 years, with 
each 1-year increase in life expectancy at birth associated with a 0·8-year 
increase in HALE. Across countries in 2010, male HALE at birth ranged from 27·9 
years (17·3-36·5) in Haiti, to 68·8 years (67·0-70·4) in Japan. Female HALE at 
birth ranged from 37·1 years (26·9-43·7) in Haiti, to 71·7 years (69·7-73·4) in 
Japan. Between 1990 and 2010, male HALE increased by 5 years or more in 42 
countries compared with 37 countries for female HALE, while male HALE decreased 
in 21 countries and 11 for female HALE. Between countries and over time, life 
expectancy was strongly and positively related to number of years lost to 
disability. This relation was consistent between sexes, in cross-sectional and 
longitudinal analysis, and when assessed at birth, or at age 50 years. Changes 
in disability had small effects on changes in HALE compared with changes in 
mortality.
INTERPRETATION: HALE differs substantially between countries. As life expectancy 
has increased, the number of healthy years lost to disability has also increased 
in most countries, consistent with the expansion of morbidity hypothesis, which 
has implications for health planning and health-care expenditure. Compared with 
substantial progress in reduction of mortality over the past two decades, 
relatively little progress has been made in reduction of the overall effect of 
non-fatal disease and injury on population health. HALE is an attractive 
indicator for monitoring health post-2015.
FUNDING: The Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61690-0
PMID: 23245606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Lancet. 2012 Dec 15;380(9859):2163-96. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61729-2.

Years lived with disability (YLDs) for 1160 sequelae of 289 diseases and 
injuries 1990-2010: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2010.

Vos T(1), Flaxman AD, Naghavi M, Lozano R, Michaud C, Ezzati M, Shibuya K, 
Salomon JA, Abdalla S, Aboyans V, Abraham J, Ackerman I, Aggarwal R, Ahn SY, Ali 
MK, Alvarado M, Anderson HR, Anderson LM, Andrews KG, Atkinson C, Baddour LM, 
Bahalim AN, Barker-Collo S, Barrero LH, Bartels DH, Basáñez MG, Baxter A, Bell 
ML, Benjamin EJ, Bennett D, Bernabé E, Bhalla K, Bhandari B, Bikbov B, Bin 
Abdulhak A, Birbeck G, Black JA, Blencowe H, Blore JD, Blyth F, Bolliger I, 
Bonaventure A, Boufous S, Bourne R, Boussinesq M, Braithwaite T, Brayne C, 
Bridgett L, Brooker S, Brooks P, Brugha TS, Bryan-Hancock C, Bucello C, 
Buchbinder R, Buckle G, Budke CM, Burch M, Burney P, Burstein R, Calabria B, 
Campbell B, Canter CE, Carabin H, Carapetis J, Carmona L, Cella C, Charlson F, 
Chen H, Cheng AT, Chou D, Chugh SS, Coffeng LE, Colan SD, Colquhoun S, Colson 
KE, Condon J, Connor MD, Cooper LT, Corriere M, Cortinovis M, de Vaccaro KC, 
Couser W, Cowie BC, Criqui MH, Cross M, Dabhadkar KC, Dahiya M, Dahodwala N, 
Damsere-Derry J, Danaei G, Davis A, De Leo D, Degenhardt L, Dellavalle R, 
Delossantos A, Denenberg J, Derrett S, Des Jarlais DC, Dharmaratne SD, Dherani 
M, Diaz-Torne C, Dolk H, Dorsey ER, Driscoll T, Duber H, Ebel B, Edmond K, Elbaz 
A, Ali SE, Erskine H, Erwin PJ, Espindola P, Ewoigbokhan SE, Farzadfar F, Feigin 
V, Felson DT, Ferrari A, Ferri CP, Fèvre EM, Finucane MM, Flaxman S, Flood L, 
Foreman K, Forouzanfar MH, Fowkes FG, Franklin R, Fransen M, Freeman MK, Gabbe 
BJ, Gabriel SE, Gakidou E, Ganatra HA, Garcia B, Gaspari F, Gillum RF, Gmel G, 
Gosselin R, Grainger R, Groeger J, Guillemin F, Gunnell D, Gupta R, Haagsma J, 
Hagan H, Halasa YA, Hall W, Haring D, Haro JM, Harrison JE, Havmoeller R, Hay 
RJ, Higashi H, Hill C, Hoen B, Hoffman H, Hotez PJ, Hoy D, Huang JJ, Ibeanusi 
SE, Jacobsen KH, James SL, Jarvis D, Jasrasaria R, Jayaraman S, Johns N, Jonas 
JB, Karthikeyan G, Kassebaum N, Kawakami N, Keren A, Khoo JP, King CH, Knowlton 
LM, Kobusingye O, Koranteng A, Krishnamurthi R, Lalloo R, Laslett LL, Lathlean 
T, Leasher JL, Lee YY, Leigh J, Lim SS, Limb E, Lin JK, Lipnick M, Lipshultz SE, 
Liu W, Loane M, Ohno SL, Lyons R, Ma J, Mabweijano J, MacIntyre MF, Malekzadeh 
R, Mallinger L, Manivannan S, Marcenes W, March L, Margolis DJ, Marks GB, Marks 
R, Matsumori A, Matzopoulos R, Mayosi BM, McAnulty JH, McDermott MM, McGill N, 
McGrath J, Medina-Mora ME, Meltzer M, Mensah GA, Merriman TR, Meyer AC, Miglioli 
V, Miller M, Miller TR, Mitchell PB, Mocumbi AO, Moffitt TE, Mokdad AA, Monasta 
L, Montico M, Moradi-Lakeh M, Moran A, Morawska L, Mori R, Murdoch ME, Mwaniki 
MK, Naidoo K, Nair MN, Naldi L, Narayan KM, Nelson PK, Nelson RG, Nevitt MC, 
Newton CR, Nolte S, Norman P, Norman R, O'Donnell M, O'Hanlon S, Olives C, Omer 
SB, Ortblad K, Osborne R, Ozgediz D, Page A, Pahari B, Pandian JD, Rivero AP, 
Patten SB, Pearce N, Padilla RP, Perez-Ruiz F, Perico N, Pesudovs K, Phillips D, 
Phillips MR, Pierce K, Pion S, Polanczyk GV, Polinder S, Pope CA 3rd, Popova S, 
Porrini E, Pourmalek F, Prince M, Pullan RL, Ramaiah KD, Ranganathan D, Razavi 
H, Regan M, Rehm JT, Rein DB, Remuzzi G, Richardson K, Rivara FP, Roberts T, 
Robinson C, De Leòn FR, Ronfani L, Room R, Rosenfeld LC, Rushton L, Sacco RL, 
Saha S, Sampson U, Sanchez-Riera L, Sanman E, Schwebel DC, Scott JG, Segui-Gomez 
M, Shahraz S, Shepard DS, Shin H, Shivakoti R, Singh D, Singh GM, Singh JA, 
Singleton J, Sleet DA, Sliwa K, Smith E, Smith JL, Stapelberg NJ, Steer A, 
Steiner T, Stolk WA, Stovner LJ, Sudfeld C, Syed S, Tamburlini G, Tavakkoli M, 
Taylor HR, Taylor JA, Taylor WJ, Thomas B, Thomson WM, Thurston GD, Tleyjeh IM, 
Tonelli M, Towbin JA, Truelsen T, Tsilimbaris MK, Ubeda C, Undurraga EA, van der 
Werf MJ, van Os J, Vavilala MS, Venketasubramanian N, Wang M, Wang W, Watt K, 
Weatherall DJ, Weinstock MA, Weintraub R, Weisskopf MG, Weissman MM, White RA, 
Whiteford H, Wiersma ST, Wilkinson JD, Williams HC, Williams SR, Witt E, Wolfe 
F, Woolf AD, Wulf S, Yeh PH, Zaidi AK, Zheng ZJ, Zonies D, Lopez AD, Murray CJ, 
AlMazroa MA, Memish ZA.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, Brisbane, QLD, Australia.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2013 Feb 23;381(9867):628. AlMazroa, Mohammad A [added]; Memish, 
Ziad A [added].

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2013 Feb;10(2):59.

BACKGROUND: Non-fatal health outcomes from diseases and injuries are a crucial 
consideration in the promotion and monitoring of individual and population 
health. The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) studies done in 1990 and 2000 have 
been the only studies to quantify non-fatal health outcomes across an exhaustive 
set of disorders at the global and regional level. Neither effort quantified 
uncertainty in prevalence or years lived with disability (YLDs).
METHODS: Of the 291 diseases and injuries in the GBD cause list, 289 cause 
disability. For 1160 sequelae of the 289 diseases and injuries, we undertook a 
systematic analysis of prevalence, incidence, remission, duration, and excess 
mortality. Sources included published studies, case notification, 
population-based cancer registries, other disease registries, antenatal clinic 
serosurveillance, hospital discharge data, ambulatory care data, household 
surveys, other surveys, and cohort studies. For most sequelae, we used a 
Bayesian meta-regression method, DisMod-MR, designed to address key limitations 
in descriptive epidemiological data, including missing data, inconsistency, and 
large methodological variation between data sources. For some disorders, we used 
natural history models, geospatial models, back-calculation models (models 
calculating incidence from population mortality rates and case fatality), or 
registration completeness models (models adjusting for incomplete registration 
with health-system access and other covariates). Disability weights for 220 
unique health states were used to capture the severity of health loss. YLDs by 
cause at age, sex, country, and year levels were adjusted for comorbidity with 
simulation methods. We included uncertainty estimates at all stages of the 
analysis.
FINDINGS: Global prevalence for all ages combined in 2010 across the 1160 
sequelae ranged from fewer than one case per 1 million people to 350,000 cases 
per 1 million people. Prevalence and severity of health loss were weakly 
correlated (correlation coefficient -0·37). In 2010, there were 777 million YLDs 
from all causes, up from 583 million in 1990. The main contributors to global 
YLDs were mental and behavioural disorders, musculoskeletal disorders, and 
diabetes or endocrine diseases. The leading specific causes of YLDs were much 
the same in 2010 as they were in 1990: low back pain, major depressive disorder, 
iron-deficiency anaemia, neck pain, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
anxiety disorders, migraine, diabetes, and falls. Age-specific prevalence of 
YLDs increased with age in all regions and has decreased slightly from 1990 to 
2010. Regional patterns of the leading causes of YLDs were more similar compared 
with years of life lost due to premature mortality. Neglected tropical diseases, 
HIV/AIDS, tuberculosis, malaria, and anaemia were important causes of YLDs in 
sub-Saharan Africa.
INTERPRETATION: Rates of YLDs per 100,000 people have remained largely constant 
over time but rise steadily with age. Population growth and ageing have 
increased YLD numbers and crude rates over the past two decades. Prevalences of 
the most common causes of YLDs, such as mental and behavioural disorders and 
musculoskeletal disorders, have not decreased. Health systems will need to 
address the needs of the rising numbers of individuals with a range of disorders 
that largely cause disability but not mortality. Quantification of the burden of 
non-fatal health outcomes will be crucial to understand how well health systems 
are responding to these challenges. Effective and affordable strategies to deal 
with this rising burden are an urgent priority for health systems in most parts 
of the world.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61729-2
PMCID: PMC6350784
PMID: 23245607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest C E Canter has worked as 
an Optum Health consultant, Blue Cross Blue Shield consultant, and received 
Berlin Heart Honoraria and travel fees. E R Dorsey has received payments for 
consulting services from Lundbeck and Medtronic and research support from 
Lundbeck and Prana Biotechnology. T Driscoll was supported in part by funding 
from the National Occupational Health and Safety Commission (now Safework 
Australia). M Ezzati chaired a session and gave a talk at the World Cardiology 
Congress (WCC), with travel cost reimbursed by the World Heart Federation. At 
the WCC, he also gave a talk at a session organised by PepsiCo with no financial 
or other remuneration. F Guillemin did a study on osteoarthritis epidemiology in 
an institution that received grants from public sources: Assurance-Maladie 
(CNAMTS) InVS, Inserm, CHU de Nancy, CHU de Nice, Conseil Regional de Lorraine, 
Societe Francaise de Negma-Lerads, Pfizer, Pierre Fabre Medicaments, 
Sanofi-Aventis France. H J Hoffman is a US Federal Government employee of the 
National Institutes of Health (NIH). P J Hotez reports holding several 
positions: Dean, National School of Tropical Medicine, Baylor College of 
Medicine; Director, Sabin Vaccine Institute Texas Children’s Hospital Center for 
Vaccine Development; and President, Sabin Vaccine Institute. He also is an 
inventor on several patents: 5,527,937 “Hookworm Anticoagulant”; 5,753,787 
“Nucleic Acids for Ancylostoma Secreted Proteins”; 7,303,752 B2 “Hookworm 
vaccine”; 12/492,734 “Human Hookworm Vaccine”; 61/077,256 “Multivalent 
Anthelminthic Vaccine”; and PCT-20100701/0.20.5.18 “Malaria Transmission 
blocking vaccine”. G A Mensah is a former employee of PepsiCo. F Perez-Ruiz was 
an advisor for Ardea, Menarini, Novartis, Metabolex; was a member of the 
Speaker’s Bureau for Menarini, Novartis; an advisor for educational issues for 
Savient; led investigation grants for the Spanish Health Ministry, Hospital de 
Cruces Rheumatology Association; and was principal investigator in clinical 
trials for Ardea. G V Polanczyk has served as a speaker or consultant to 
Eli-Lily, Novartis, Janssen-Cilag, and Shire Pharmaceuticals, developed 
educational material for Janssen-Cilag, and received an independent investigator 
grant from Novartis and from the National Council for Scientific and 
Technological Development (CNPq, Brazil). L Rushton received honorarium for 
board membership of the European Centre for Ecotoxicology and Toxicology of 
Chemicals and received research grants to Imperial College London (as PI) from 
the European Chemical Industry Council (CEFIC) and CONCAWE (Conservation of 
Clean Air and Water Europe). J A Singh has received research grants from Takeda 
and Savient and consultant fees from Savient, Takeda, Ardea, Regeneron, 
Allergan, URL pharmaceuticals, and Novartis. J A Singh is a member of the 
executive of OMERACT, an organisation that develops outcome measures in 
rheumatology and receives arms-length funding from 36 companies; a member of the 
American College of Rheumatology’s Guidelines Subcommittee of the Quality of 
Care Committee; and a member of the Veterans Affairs Rheumatology Field Advisory 
Committee. J A Singh is supported by research grants from the National 
Institutes of Arthritis, Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS), National 
Institute on Aging (NIA), National Cancer Institute (NCI) and the Agency for 
Health Quality and Research Center for Education and Research on Therapeutics 
(CERTs) and is also supported by the resources and the use of facilities at the 
VA Medical Center at Birmingham, Alabama, USA.


893. Lancet. 2012 Dec 15;380(9859):2197-223. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61689-4.

Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) for 291 diseases and injuries in 21 
regions, 1990-2010: a systematic analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 
2010.

Murray CJ(1), Vos T, Lozano R, Naghavi M, Flaxman AD, Michaud C, Ezzati M, 
Shibuya K, Salomon JA, Abdalla S, Aboyans V, Abraham J, Ackerman I, Aggarwal R, 
Ahn SY, Ali MK, Alvarado M, Anderson HR, Anderson LM, Andrews KG, Atkinson C, 
Baddour LM, Bahalim AN, Barker-Collo S, Barrero LH, Bartels DH, Basáñez MG, 
Baxter A, Bell ML, Benjamin EJ, Bennett D, Bernabé E, Bhalla K, Bhandari B, 
Bikbov B, Bin Abdulhak A, Birbeck G, Black JA, Blencowe H, Blore JD, Blyth F, 
Bolliger I, Bonaventure A, Boufous S, Bourne R, Boussinesq M, Braithwaite T, 
Brayne C, Bridgett L, Brooker S, Brooks P, Brugha TS, Bryan-Hancock C, Bucello 
C, Buchbinder R, Buckle G, Budke CM, Burch M, Burney P, Burstein R, Calabria B, 
Campbell B, Canter CE, Carabin H, Carapetis J, Carmona L, Cella C, Charlson F, 
Chen H, Cheng AT, Chou D, Chugh SS, Coffeng LE, Colan SD, Colquhoun S, Colson 
KE, Condon J, Connor MD, Cooper LT, Corriere M, Cortinovis M, de Vaccaro KC, 
Couser W, Cowie BC, Criqui MH, Cross M, Dabhadkar KC, Dahiya M, Dahodwala N, 
Damsere-Derry J, Danaei G, Davis A, De Leo D, Degenhardt L, Dellavalle R, 
Delossantos A, Denenberg J, Derrett S, Des Jarlais DC, Dharmaratne SD, Dherani 
M, Diaz-Torne C, Dolk H, Dorsey ER, Driscoll T, Duber H, Ebel B, Edmond K, Elbaz 
A, Ali SE, Erskine H, Erwin PJ, Espindola P, Ewoigbokhan SE, Farzadfar F, Feigin 
V, Felson DT, Ferrari A, Ferri CP, Fèvre EM, Finucane MM, Flaxman S, Flood L, 
Foreman K, Forouzanfar MH, Fowkes FG, Fransen M, Freeman MK, Gabbe BJ, Gabriel 
SE, Gakidou E, Ganatra HA, Garcia B, Gaspari F, Gillum RF, Gmel G, 
Gonzalez-Medina D, Gosselin R, Grainger R, Grant B, Groeger J, Guillemin F, 
Gunnell D, Gupta R, Haagsma J, Hagan H, Halasa YA, Hall W, Haring D, Haro JM, 
Harrison JE, Havmoeller R, Hay RJ, Higashi H, Hill C, Hoen B, Hoffman H, Hotez 
PJ, Hoy D, Huang JJ, Ibeanusi SE, Jacobsen KH, James SL, Jarvis D, Jasrasaria R, 
Jayaraman S, Johns N, Jonas JB, Karthikeyan G, Kassebaum N, Kawakami N, Keren A, 
Khoo JP, King CH, Knowlton LM, Kobusingye O, Koranteng A, Krishnamurthi R, Laden 
F, Lalloo R, Laslett LL, Lathlean T, Leasher JL, Lee YY, Leigh J, Levinson D, 
Lim SS, Limb E, Lin JK, Lipnick M, Lipshultz SE, Liu W, Loane M, Ohno SL, Lyons 
R, Mabweijano J, MacIntyre MF, Malekzadeh R, Mallinger L, Manivannan S, Marcenes 
W, March L, Margolis DJ, Marks GB, Marks R, Matsumori A, Matzopoulos R, Mayosi 
BM, McAnulty JH, McDermott MM, McGill N, McGrath J, Medina-Mora ME, Meltzer M, 
Mensah GA, Merriman TR, Meyer AC, Miglioli V, Miller M, Miller TR, Mitchell PB, 
Mock C, Mocumbi AO, Moffitt TE, Mokdad AA, Monasta L, Montico M, Moradi-Lakeh M, 
Moran A, Morawska L, Mori R, Murdoch ME, Mwaniki MK, Naidoo K, Nair MN, Naldi L, 
Narayan KM, Nelson PK, Nelson RG, Nevitt MC, Newton CR, Nolte S, Norman P, 
Norman R, O'Donnell M, O'Hanlon S, Olives C, Omer SB, Ortblad K, Osborne R, 
Ozgediz D, Page A, Pahari B, Pandian JD, Rivero AP, Patten SB, Pearce N, Padilla 
RP, Perez-Ruiz F, Perico N, Pesudovs K, Phillips D, Phillips MR, Pierce K, Pion 
S, Polanczyk GV, Polinder S, Pope CA 3rd, Popova S, Porrini E, Pourmalek F, 
Prince M, Pullan RL, Ramaiah KD, Ranganathan D, Razavi H, Regan M, Rehm JT, Rein 
DB, Remuzzi G, Richardson K, Rivara FP, Roberts T, Robinson C, De Leòn FR, 
Ronfani L, Room R, Rosenfeld LC, Rushton L, Sacco RL, Saha S, Sampson U, 
Sanchez-Riera L, Sanman E, Schwebel DC, Scott JG, Segui-Gomez M, Shahraz S, 
Shepard DS, Shin H, Shivakoti R, Singh D, Singh GM, Singh JA, Singleton J, Sleet 
DA, Sliwa K, Smith E, Smith JL, Stapelberg NJ, Steer A, Steiner T, Stolk WA, 
Stovner LJ, Sudfeld C, Syed S, Tamburlini G, Tavakkoli M, Taylor HR, Taylor JA, 
Taylor WJ, Thomas B, Thomson WM, Thurston GD, Tleyjeh IM, Tonelli M, Towbin JA, 
Truelsen T, Tsilimbaris MK, Ubeda C, Undurraga EA, van der Werf MJ, van Os J, 
Vavilala MS, Venketasubramanian N, Wang M, Wang W, Watt K, Weatherall DJ, 
Weinstock MA, Weintraub R, Weisskopf MG, Weissman MM, White RA, Whiteford H, 
Wiebe N, Wiersma ST, Wilkinson JD, Williams HC, Williams SR, Witt E, Wolfe F, 
Woolf AD, Wulf S, Yeh PH, Zaidi AK, Zheng ZJ, Zonies D, Lopez AD, AlMazroa MA, 
Memish ZA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle 98121, WA, USA. 
cjlm@uw.edu

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2013 Feb 23;381(9867):628. AlMazroa, Mohammad A [added]; Memish, 
Ziad A [added].

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2013 Feb;10(2):59.
    J Viral Hepat. 2013 Sep;20(9):600-1.

BACKGROUND: Measuring disease and injury burden in populations requires a 
composite metric that captures both premature mortality and the prevalence and 
severity of ill-health. The 1990 Global Burden of Disease study proposed 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) to measure disease burden. No 
comprehensive update of disease burden worldwide incorporating a systematic 
reassessment of disease and injury-specific epidemiology has been done since the 
1990 study. We aimed to calculate disease burden worldwide and for 21 regions 
for 1990, 2005, and 2010 with methods to enable meaningful comparisons over 
time.
METHODS: We calculated DALYs as the sum of years of life lost (YLLs) and years 
lived with disability (YLDs). DALYs were calculated for 291 causes, 20 age 
groups, both sexes, and for 187 countries, and aggregated to regional and global 
estimates of disease burden for three points in time with strictly comparable 
definitions and methods. YLLs were calculated from age-sex-country-time-specific 
estimates of mortality by cause, with death by standardised lost life expectancy 
at each age. YLDs were calculated as prevalence of 1160 disabling sequelae, by 
age, sex, and cause, and weighted by new disability weights for each health 
state. Neither YLLs nor YLDs were age-weighted or discounted. Uncertainty around 
cause-specific DALYs was calculated incorporating uncertainty in levels of 
all-cause mortality, cause-specific mortality, prevalence, and disability 
weights.
FINDINGS: Global DALYs remained stable from 1990 (2·503 billion) to 2010 (2·490 
billion). Crude DALYs per 1000 decreased by 23% (472 per 1000 to 361 per 1000). 
An important shift has occurred in DALY composition with the contribution of 
deaths and disability among children (younger than 5 years of age) declining 
from 41% of global DALYs in 1990 to 25% in 2010. YLLs typically account for 
about half of disease burden in more developed regions (high-income Asia 
Pacific, western Europe, high-income North America, and Australasia), rising to 
over 80% of DALYs in sub-Saharan Africa. In 1990, 47% of DALYs worldwide were 
from communicable, maternal, neonatal, and nutritional disorders, 43% from 
non-communicable diseases, and 10% from injuries. By 2010, this had shifted to 
35%, 54%, and 11%, respectively. Ischaemic heart disease was the leading cause 
of DALYs worldwide in 2010 (up from fourth rank in 1990, increasing by 29%), 
followed by lower respiratory infections (top rank in 1990; 44% decline in 
DALYs), stroke (fifth in 1990; 19% increase), diarrhoeal diseases (second in 
1990; 51% decrease), and HIV/AIDS (33rd in 1990; 351% increase). Major 
depressive disorder increased from 15th to 11th rank (37% increase) and road 
injury from 12th to 10th rank (34% increase). Substantial heterogeneity exists 
in rankings of leading causes of disease burden among regions.
INTERPRETATION: Global disease burden has continued to shift away from 
communicable to non-communicable diseases and from premature death to years 
lived with disability. In sub-Saharan Africa, however, many communicable, 
maternal, neonatal, and nutritional disorders remain the dominant causes of 
disease burden. The rising burden from mental and behavioural disorders, 
musculoskeletal disorders, and diabetes will impose new challenges on health 
systems. Regional heterogeneity highlights the importance of understanding local 
burden of disease and setting goals and targets for the post-2015 agenda taking 
such patterns into account. Because of improved definitions, methods, and data, 
these results for 1990 and 2010 supersede all previously published Global Burden 
of Disease results.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61689-4
PMID: 23245608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Lancet. 2012 Dec 15;380(9859):2224-60. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61766-8.

A comparative risk assessment of burden of disease and injury attributable to 67 
risk factors and risk factor clusters in 21 regions, 1990-2010: a systematic 
analysis for the Global Burden of Disease Study 2010.

Lim SS(1), Vos T, Flaxman AD, Danaei G, Shibuya K, Adair-Rohani H, Amann M, 
Anderson HR, Andrews KG, Aryee M, Atkinson C, Bacchus LJ, Bahalim AN, 
Balakrishnan K, Balmes J, Barker-Collo S, Baxter A, Bell ML, Blore JD, Blyth F, 
Bonner C, Borges G, Bourne R, Boussinesq M, Brauer M, Brooks P, Bruce NG, 
Brunekreef B, Bryan-Hancock C, Bucello C, Buchbinder R, Bull F, Burnett RT, 
Byers TE, Calabria B, Carapetis J, Carnahan E, Chafe Z, Charlson F, Chen H, Chen 
JS, Cheng AT, Child JC, Cohen A, Colson KE, Cowie BC, Darby S, Darling S, Davis 
A, Degenhardt L, Dentener F, Des Jarlais DC, Devries K, Dherani M, Ding EL, 
Dorsey ER, Driscoll T, Edmond K, Ali SE, Engell RE, Erwin PJ, Fahimi S, Falder 
G, Farzadfar F, Ferrari A, Finucane MM, Flaxman S, Fowkes FG, Freedman G, 
Freeman MK, Gakidou E, Ghosh S, Giovannucci E, Gmel G, Graham K, Grainger R, 
Grant B, Gunnell D, Gutierrez HR, Hall W, Hoek HW, Hogan A, Hosgood HD 3rd, Hoy 
D, Hu H, Hubbell BJ, Hutchings SJ, Ibeanusi SE, Jacklyn GL, Jasrasaria R, Jonas 
JB, Kan H, Kanis JA, Kassebaum N, Kawakami N, Khang YH, Khatibzadeh S, Khoo JP, 
Kok C, Laden F, Lalloo R, Lan Q, Lathlean T, Leasher JL, Leigh J, Li Y, Lin JK, 
Lipshultz SE, London S, Lozano R, Lu Y, Mak J, Malekzadeh R, Mallinger L, 
Marcenes W, March L, Marks R, Martin R, McGale P, McGrath J, Mehta S, Mensah GA, 
Merriman TR, Micha R, Michaud C, Mishra V, Mohd Hanafiah K, Mokdad AA, Morawska 
L, Mozaffarian D, Murphy T, Naghavi M, Neal B, Nelson PK, Nolla JM, Norman R, 
Olives C, Omer SB, Orchard J, Osborne R, Ostro B, Page A, Pandey KD, Parry CD, 
Passmore E, Patra J, Pearce N, Pelizzari PM, Petzold M, Phillips MR, Pope D, 
Pope CA 3rd, Powles J, Rao M, Razavi H, Rehfuess EA, Rehm JT, Ritz B, Rivara FP, 
Roberts T, Robinson C, Rodriguez-Portales JA, Romieu I, Room R, Rosenfeld LC, 
Roy A, Rushton L, Salomon JA, Sampson U, Sanchez-Riera L, Sanman E, Sapkota A, 
Seedat S, Shi P, Shield K, Shivakoti R, Singh GM, Sleet DA, Smith E, Smith KR, 
Stapelberg NJ, Steenland K, Stöckl H, Stovner LJ, Straif K, Straney L, Thurston 
GD, Tran JH, Van Dingenen R, van Donkelaar A, Veerman JL, Vijayakumar L, 
Weintraub R, Weissman MM, White RA, Whiteford H, Wiersma ST, Wilkinson JD, 
Williams HC, Williams W, Wilson N, Woolf AD, Yip P, Zielinski JM, Lopez AD, 
Murray CJ, Ezzati M, AlMazroa MA, Memish ZA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle, WA 98121, USA. 
stevelim@uw.edu

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2013 Apr 13;381(9874):1276.
    Lancet. 2013 Feb 23;381(9867):628. AlMazroa, Mohammad A [added]; Memish, 
Ziad A [added].

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2013 Feb;10(2):59.
    Lancet. 2013 Mar 23;381(9871):992-3.
    Lancet. 2013 Mar 23;381(9871):993.
    Lancet. 2013 Sep 28;382(9898):1092-3.
    Addiction. 2015 Jul;110(7):1207.

BACKGROUND: Quantification of the disease burden caused by different risks 
informs prevention by providing an account of health loss different to that 
provided by a disease-by-disease analysis. No complete revision of global 
disease burden caused by risk factors has been done since a comparative risk 
assessment in 2000, and no previous analysis has assessed changes in burden 
attributable to risk factors over time.
METHODS: We estimated deaths and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs; sum of 
years lived with disability [YLD] and years of life lost [YLL]) attributable to 
the independent effects of 67 risk factors and clusters of risk factors for 21 
regions in 1990 and 2010. We estimated exposure distributions for each year, 
region, sex, and age group, and relative risks per unit of exposure by 
systematically reviewing and synthesising published and unpublished data. We 
used these estimates, together with estimates of cause-specific deaths and DALYs 
from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2010, to calculate the burden 
attributable to each risk factor exposure compared with the 
theoretical-minimum-risk exposure. We incorporated uncertainty in disease 
burden, relative risks, and exposures into our estimates of attributable burden.
FINDINGS: In 2010, the three leading risk factors for global disease burden were 
high blood pressure (7·0% [95% uncertainty interval 6·2-7·7] of global DALYs), 
tobacco smoking including second-hand smoke (6·3% [5·5-7·0]), and alcohol use 
(5·5% [5·0-5·9]). In 1990, the leading risks were childhood underweight (7·9% 
[6·8-9·4]), household air pollution from solid fuels (HAP; 7·0% [5·6-8·3]), and 
tobacco smoking including second-hand smoke (6·1% [5·4-6·8]). Dietary risk 
factors and physical inactivity collectively accounted for 10·0% (95% UI 
9·2-10·8) of global DALYs in 2010, with the most prominent dietary risks being 
diets low in fruits and those high in sodium. Several risks that primarily 
affect childhood communicable diseases, including unimproved water and 
sanitation and childhood micronutrient deficiencies, fell in rank between 1990 
and 2010, with unimproved water and sanitation accounting for 0·9% (0·4-1·6) of 
global DALYs in 2010. However, in most of sub-Saharan Africa childhood 
underweight, HAP, and non-exclusive and discontinued breastfeeding were the 
leading risks in 2010, while HAP was the leading risk in south Asia. The leading 
risk factor in Eastern Europe, most of Latin America, and southern sub-Saharan 
Africa in 2010 was alcohol use; in most of Asia, North Africa and Middle East, 
and central Europe it was high blood pressure. Despite declines, tobacco smoking 
including second-hand smoke remained the leading risk in high-income north 
America and western Europe. High body-mass index has increased globally and it 
is the leading risk in Australasia and southern Latin America, and also ranks 
high in other high-income regions, North Africa and Middle East, and Oceania.
INTERPRETATION: Worldwide, the contribution of different risk factors to disease 
burden has changed substantially, with a shift away from risks for communicable 
diseases in children towards those for non-communicable diseases in adults. 
These changes are related to the ageing population, decreased mortality among 
children younger than 5 years, changes in cause-of-death composition, and 
changes in risk factor exposures. New evidence has led to changes in the 
magnitude of key risks including unimproved water and sanitation, vitamin A and 
zinc deficiencies, and ambient particulate matter pollution. The extent to which 
the epidemiological shift has occurred and what the leading risks currently are 
varies greatly across regions. In much of sub-Saharan Africa, the leading risks 
are still those associated with poverty and those that affect children.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61766-8
PMCID: PMC4156511
PMID: 23245609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Cell Rep. 2012 Dec 27;2(6):1485-91. doi: 10.1016/j.celrep.2012.11.013. Epub
2012  Dec 13.

dSir2 in the adult fat body, but not in muscles, regulates life span in a 
diet-dependent manner.

Banerjee KK(1), Ayyub C, Ali SZ, Mandot V, Prasad NG, Kolthur-Seetharam U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Tata Institute of Fundamental Research, 
Colaba, Mumbai 400005, India.

Comment in
    Cell Rep. 2012 Dec 27;2(6):1473-4.

Sir2, an evolutionarily conserved NAD(+)-dependent deacetylase, has been 
implicated as a key factor in mediating organismal life span. However, recent 
contradictory findings have brought into question the role of Sir2 and its 
orthologs in regulating organismal longevity. In this study, we report that 
Drosophila Sir2 (dSir2) in the adult fat body regulates longevity in a 
diet-dependent manner. We used inducible Gal4 drivers to knock down and 
overexpress dSir2 in a tissue-specific manner. A diet-dependent life span 
phenotype of dSir2 perturbations (both knockdown and overexpression) in the fat 
body, but not muscles, negates the effects of background genetic mutations. In 
addition to providing clarity to the field, our study contrasts the ability of 
dSir2 in two metabolic tissues to affect longevity. We also show that dSir2 
knockdown abrogates fat-body dFOXO-dependent life span extension. This report 
highlights the importance of the interplay between genetic factors and dietary 
inputs in determining organismal life spans.

Copyright © 2012 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.celrep.2012.11.013
PMID: 23246004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Eur J Cancer. 2013 Mar;49(5):1080-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2012.11.003. Epub
2012  Dec 13.

CD4 lymphopenia to identify end-of-life metastatic cancer patients.

Péron J(1), Cropet C, Tredan O, Bachelot T, Ray-Coquard I, Clapisson G, Chabaud 
S, Philip I, Borg C, Cassier P, Labidi Galy I, Sebban C, Perol D, Biron P, Caux 
C, Menetrier-Caux C, Blay JY.

Author information:
(1)Université de Lyon, Lyon, France; Université Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, France.

BACKGROUND: Cancer patients with CD4 lymphopenia have an increased risk of 
severe toxicity after administration of cytotoxic chemotherapy. The impact of 
CD4 lymphopenia on long term overall survival (OS) of cancer patients was 
explored in this work.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The first prospective series (test series) included 219 
patients with solid tumours, lymphomas or myelomas receiving chemotherapy within 
an oncology department in 1999 and 2000. A phenotypic analysis of lymphocyte 
subsets by flow cytometry was performed before chemotherapy on day 1. The 
prognostic value of total, CD4, CD8 and CD56 lymphocyte count for OS was tested 
in a multivariate analysis. The prognostic value of low CD4 counts was then 
tested in a validation series of 269 patients with metastatic solid tumours in 
second line treatment included in a prospective observational study in the 
Centre Leon Berard.
RESULTS: In the test series, all patients with metastatic cancers and CD4 
lymphopenia ≤ 200/μL (12% of metastatic patients) died within 18 months with a 
median OS of 5.9 months. CD4 count was an independent prognostic factor for OS 
and PFS in multivariate analysis. In the validation series, 83 (30%) of patients 
had CD4 count ≤ 200/μL: their median overall survival was 3.9 months with an 
18-month survival rate of 6%. CD4 count was also an independent prognostic 
factor for overall survival in this series.
CONCLUSIONS: CD4 lymphopenia <200/μL is frequent in advanced cancer patients and 
associated with a very short life expectancy. These patients should be proposed 
for specific treatment and research approaches.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2012.11.003
PMID: 23246297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Resuscitation. 2013 Apr;84(4):415-21. doi:
10.1016/j.resuscitation.2012.12.008.  Epub 2012 Dec 11.

How best to teach CPR to schoolchildren: a systematic review.

Plant N(1), Taylor K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Hospital for Sick Children, 
Toronto, Canada.

Comment in
    Resuscitation. 2013 Apr;84(4):399-400.

BACKGROUND: Training schoolchildren to perform cardiopulmonary resuscitation is 
one possible method of increasing bystander CPR rates. We reviewed available 
literature to identify what methods of training children have been successful.
OBJECTIVES AND METHODS: This review sought to evaluate evidence addressing the 
following PICO question: (P) In schoolchildren, (I) what types of CPR, AED and 
first aid training (C) when compared to no training and to each other (O) lead 
to ability to perform life saving measures? Searches were conducted in Ovid 
MEDLINE (1946 - August 2012), Ovid EMBASE (1974 - August 2012) and Ebscohost 
Cinahl (1981 - August 2012). Database specific subject headings in all three 
databases (MeSH in MEDLINE, Emtree in EMBASE, Cinahl Headings) were selected for 
the concepts of cardiopulmonary resuscitation (CPR) and education. The combined 
results were then limited by age to include all school aged children. The search 
yielded 2620 articles. From titles, abstract and key words, 208 articles 
described CPR, AED and/or first aid training in schoolchildren and were eligible 
for review. These were obtained in full, were unavailable or not published in 
English. We reviewed articles for publication type and relevance. 48 studies 
were identified. One additional study was included as an extension of a study 
retrieved within the search.
RESULTS: The studies found by the search were heterogeneous for study and 
training methodology. Findings regarding schoolchild age and physical factors, 
the role of practical training, use of self-instruction kits, use of computer 
based learning, reduced training time, trainer type, AED training are presented.
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence shows that cardiopulmonary training, delivered in various 
ways, is successful in a wide age range of children. While older children 
perform more successfully on testing, younger children are able to perform basic 
tasks well, including use of AEDs. Chest compression depth correlates with 
physical factors such as increasing weight, BMI and height. Instruction must 
include hands on practice to enable children to perform physical tasks. Repeated 
training improves performance and retention but the format and frequency of 
repeated training is yet to be fully determined. Types of training that may 
reduce the main obstacles to implementation of such training in schools include 
use of self-instruction kits, computer based learning and use of teacher and 
peer tutor trainers, but again, need further exploration. As starting points we 
recommend legislative and funded mandates to provide such training to 
schoolchildren, and production and use of a framework which will delineate 
longitudinal delivery of training over the school career. Further research 
should have some uniformity in terms of assessment methodology, look at longer 
outcomes, and ideally will evaluate areas that are currently poorly defined.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resuscitation.2012.12.008
PMID: 23246989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Am J Gastroenterol. 2013 Jan;108(1):120-32. doi: 10.1038/ajg.2012.380. Epub
2012  Dec 18.

Comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of screening colonoscopy vs. 
sigmoidoscopy and alternative strategies.

Sharaf RN(1), Ladabaum U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Hofstra University 
School of Medicine, North Shore-Long Island Jewish Health System, Manhasset, NY, 
USA.

OBJECTIVES: Fecal occult blood testing (FOBT) and sigmoidoscopy are proven to 
decrease colorectal cancer (CRC) incidence and mortality. Sigmoidoscopy's 
benefit is limited to the distal colon. Observational data are conflicting 
regarding the degree to which colonoscopy affords protection against proximal 
CRC. Our aim was to explore the comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
of colonoscopy vs. sigmoidoscopy and alternative CRC screening strategies in 
light of the latest published data.
METHODS: We performed a contemporary cost-utility analysis using a Markov model 
validated against data from randomized controlled trials of FOBT and 
sigmoidoscopy. Persons at average CRC risk within the general US population were 
modeled. Screening strategies included those recommended by the United States 
(US) Preventive Services Task Force, including colonoscopy every 10 years 
(COLO), flexible sigmoidoscopy every 5 years (FS), annual fecal occult blood 
testing, annual fecal immunochemical testing (FIT), and the combination FS/FIT. 
The main outcome measures were quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and costs.
RESULTS: In the base case, FIT dominated other strategies. The advantage of FIT 
over FS and COLO was contingent on rates of uptake and adherence that are well 
above current US rates. Compared with FIT, FS and COLO both cost <$50,000/QALY 
gained when FIT per-cycle adherence was <50%. COLO cost $56,800/QALY gained vs. 
FS in the base case. COLO cost <$100,000/QALY gained vs. FS when COLO yielded a 
relative risk of proximal CRC of <0.5 vs. no screening. In probabilistic 
analyses, COLO was cost-effective vs. FS at a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$100,000/QALY gained in 84% of iterations.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening colonoscopy may be cost-effective compared with FIT and 
sigmoidoscopy, depending on the relative rates of screening uptake and adherence 
and the protective benefit of colonoscopy in the proximal colon. Colonoscopy's 
cost-effectiveness compared with sigmoidoscopy is contingent on the ability to 
deliver ~50% protection against CRC in the proximal colon.

DOI: 10.1038/ajg.2012.380
PMID: 23247579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Hautarzt. 2012 Dec;63(12):929-30. doi: 10.1007/s00105-012-2464-2.

[Geriatric dermatology].

[Article in German]

Zouboulis CC(1), Krutmann J.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Dermatologie, Venerologie und Allergologie/Immunologisches 
Zentrum, Städtisches Klinikum Dessau, Auenweg 38, 06847, Dessau, Deutschland. 
christos.zouboulis@klinikum-dessau.de

DOI: 10.1007/s00105-012-2464-2
PMID: 23247642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. BMJ. 2012 Dec 14;345:e8223. doi: 10.1136/bmj.e8223.

Using speed of ageing and "microlives" to communicate the effects of lifetime 
habits and environment.

Spiegelhalter D(1).

Author information:
(1)Statistical Laboratory, University of Cambridge, Cambridge CB3 0WB, UK. 
d.spiegelhalter@statslab.cam.ac.uk

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.e8223
PMID: 23247978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. Med Law. 2012 Sep;31(3):355-63.

Cardiovascular implantable electronic devices: patient education, information 
and ethical issues.

Manaouil C(1), Gignon M, Traulle S.

Author information:
(1)MCU-PH, Forensic and Medical Law Unit, Amiens University Hospital, Amiens, 
France. manaouil.cecile@chu-amiens.fr

Cardiovascular implantable electronic devices (CIED) are implanted increasingly 
frequently. CIEDs are indicated for the treatment of bradycardia, tachycardia 
and heart failure and therefore improve quality of life and life expectancy. 
CIED can treat ventricular arrhythmias that would be fatal without immediate 
care. However, CIEDs raise several patient education, medico-legal, and ethical 
questions that will be addressed in this article. Information is a patient's 
right, and necessary for informed consent. When implanting a CIED, the patient 
must be educated about the need for the device, the function of the device, any 
restrictions that apply postimplant, and postimplant follow-up methods and 
schedules. This transfer of information to the patient makes the patient 
responsible. The occupational physician can determine whether a patient wearing 
a CIED is able to work. Under current French law, patients are not prohibited 
from working while wearing a CIED. However, access to certain job categories 
remains limited, such as jobs involving mechanical stress to the chest, exposure 
to electromagnetic fields, or jobs requiring permanent vigilance. Pacemakers and 
defibrillators are medical treatments and are subject to the same ethical and 
clinical considerations as any other treatment. However, stopping a pacemaker or 
a defibrillator raises different ethical issues. Implantable Cardioverter 
Defibrillator shocks can be considered to be equivalent to resuscitation efforts 
and can be interpreted as being unreasonable in an end-of-life patient. Pacing 
is painless and it is unlikely to unnecessarily prolong the life of a patient 
with a terminal disease. Patients with a CIED should live as normally as 
possible, but must also be informed about the constraints related to the device 
and must inform each caregiver about the presence of the device. The forensic 
and ethical implications must be assessed in relation to current legislation.

PMID: 23248837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Ethn Health. 2012;17(6):631-49. doi: 10.1080/13557858.2012.752072. Epub 2012
Dec  19.

Policy initiatives, culture and the prevention and control of chronic 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) in the Caribbean.

Samuels TA(1), Guell C, Legetic B, Unwin N.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medical Sciences, University of West Indies, Cave Hill Campus, 
Barbados. alafia.samuels@cavehill

OBJECTIVE: To explore interactions between disease burden, culture and the 
policy response to non-communicable diseases (NCDs) within the Caribbean, a 
region with some of the highest prevalence rates, morbidity and mortality from 
NCDs in the Americas.
METHODS: We undertook a wide ranging narrative review, drawing on a variety of 
peer reviewed, government and intergovernmental literature.
RESULTS: Although the Caribbean is highly diverse, linguistically and 
ethnically, it is possible to show how 'culture' at the macro-level has been 
shaped by shared historic, economic and political experiences and ties. We 
suggest four broad groupings of countries: the English-speaking Caribbean 
Community (CARICOM); the small island states that are still colonies or 
departments of colonial powers; three large-Spanish speaking countries; and 
Haiti, which although part of CARICOM is culturally distinct. We explore how NCD 
health policies in the region stem from and are influenced by the broad 
characteristics of these groupings, albeit played out in varied ways in 
individual countries. For example, the Port of Spain declaration (2007) on NCDs 
can be understood as the product of the co-operative and collaborative 
relationships with CARICOM, which are based on a shared broad culture. We note, 
however, that studies investigating the relationships between the formation of 
NCD policy and culture (at any level) are scarce.
CONCLUSION: Within the Caribbean region it is possible to discern relationships 
between culture at the macro-level and the formation of NCD policy. However, 
there is little work that directly assesses the interactions between culture and 
NCD policy formation. The Caribbean with its cultural diversity and high burden 
of NCDs provides an ideal environment within which to undertake further studies 
to better understand the interactions between culture and health policy 
formation.

DOI: 10.1080/13557858.2012.752072
PMID: 23249261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. Radiology. 2013 Mar;266(3):896-904. doi: 10.1148/radiol.12121015. Epub 2012
Dec  18.

Patients with testicular cancer undergoing CT surveillance demonstrate a pitfall 
of radiation-induced cancer risk estimates: the timing paradox.

Pandharipande PV(1), Eisenberg JD, Lee RJ, Gilmore ME, Turan EA, Singh S, Kalra 
MK, Liu B, Kong CY, Gazelle GS.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital Institute for Technology Assessment, 
Department of Radiology, 101 Merrimac St, 10th Floor, Boston, MA 02114, USA. 
pari@mgh-ita.org

PURPOSE: To demonstrate a limitation of lifetime radiation-induced cancer risk 
metrics in the setting of testicular cancer surveillance-in particular, their 
failure to capture the delayed timing of radiation-induced cancers over the 
course of a patient's lifetime.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Institutional review board approval was obtained for the 
use of computed tomographic (CT) dosimetry data in this study. Informed consent 
was waived. This study was HIPAA compliant. A Markov model was developed to 
project outcomes in patients with testicular cancer who were undergoing CT 
surveillance in the decade after orchiectomy. To quantify effects of early 
versus delayed risks, life expectancy losses and lifetime mortality risks due to 
testicular cancer were compared with life expectancy losses and lifetime 
mortality risks due to radiation-induced cancers from CT. Projections of life 
expectancy loss, unlike lifetime risk estimates, account for the timing of risks 
over the course of a lifetime, which enabled evaluation of the described 
limitation of lifetime risk estimates. Markov chain Monte Carlo methods were 
used to estimate the uncertainty of the results.
RESULTS: As an example of evidence yielded, 33-year-old men with stage I 
seminoma who were undergoing CT surveillance were projected to incur a slightly 
higher lifetime mortality risk from testicular cancer (598 per 100 000; 95% 
uncertainty interval [UI]: 302, 894) than from radiation-induced cancers (505 
per 100 000; 95% UI: 280, 730). However, life expectancy loss attributable to 
testicular cancer (83 days; 95% UI: 42, 124) was more than three times greater 
than life expectancy loss attributable to radiation-induced cancers (24 days; 
95% UI: 13, 35). Trends were consistent across modeled scenarios.
CONCLUSION: Lifetime radiation risk estimates, when used for decision making, 
may overemphasize radiation-induced cancer risks relative to short-term health 
risks.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.12121015
PMCID: PMC3579177
PMID: 23249573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Br J Nurs. 2012 Dec 13-2013 Jan 9;21(22):1333-6, 1338-40. doi: 
10.12968/bjon.2012.21.22.1333.

READS: the rapid electronic assessment documentation system.

Hickey A(1), Gleeson M, Kellett J.

Author information:
(1)Nenagh Hospital, Nenagh, Ireland.

Patient documentation is time consuming and can detract from care. The authors 
report a novel computer programme that manipulates routinely collected 
information to quantify nursing workload, along with the reason for admission, 
functional status, estimates of in-hospital mortality and life expectancy. The 
programme stores information in a database, and produces a print-out in a 
situation/background/assessment/recommendation (SBAR) format. The average time 
taken to enter 629 patient encounters was 6.6 minutes. Pain was the most common 
presentation for low workload patients, while high workload patients often 
presented with altered mental status and reduced mobility. There was only a 
modest correlation between the risk of death and nursing workload. The programme 
measures nursing workload without further paperwork, and improves routine 
documentation with a legible brief report that is automatically generated. This 
report can be shared and provides data that is immediately available for 
day-to-day care, audit, quality control and service planning.

DOI: 10.12968/bjon.2012.21.22.1333
PMID: 23249801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2013 May 15;38(11):936-46. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e31828264f9.

Cost-effectiveness of duloxetine in chronic low back pain: a Quebec societal 
perspective.

Wielage R(1), Bansal M, Wilson K, Klein R, Happich M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Decision Modeling Inc., Indianapolis, IN 46268, USA. 
rwielage@mdm-inc.com

STUDY DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness model from a Quebec societal perspective using 
meta-analyses of clinical trials.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of duloxetine in chronic low back 
pain (CLBP) compared with other post-first-line oral medications.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Duloxetine has recently received a CLBP indication 
in Canada. The cost-effectiveness of duloxetine and other oral medications has 
not previously been evaluated for CLBP.
METHODS: A Markov model was created on the basis of the economic model 
documented in the 2008 osteoarthritis clinical guidelines of the National 
Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence. Treatment-specific utilities were 
estimated via a meta-analysis of CLBP clinical trials and a transfer-to-utility 
regression estimated from duloxetine CLBP trial data. Adverse event rates of 
comparator treatments were taken from the National Institute for Health and 
Clinical Excellence model or estimated by a meta-analysis of clinical trials in 
osteoarthritis using a maximum-likelihood simulation technique. Costs were 
developed primarily from Quebec and Ontario public sources as well as the 
published literature and expert opinion. The 6 comparators were celecoxib, 
naproxen, amitriptyline, pregabalin, hydromorphone, and oxycodone. Subgroup 
analyses and 1-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In the base case, naproxen, celecoxib, and duloxetine were on the 
cost-effectiveness frontier, with naproxen the least expensive medication, 
celecoxib with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $19,881, and 
