centenarians' offspring display any advantage over the offspring of both 
non-long-lived parents and to evaluate whether the longevity of the 
non-centenarian parent provides a further advantage. A total of 374 subjects 
(mean age approximately 70 years) was examined. A threshold for longevity was 
established for non-centenarian parents through demographic data available for 
Italy (males surviving to at least 81 years of age and females to 87 years). The 
participants were assessed for their health and functional status by means of a 
standardized questionnaire and tests of physical performance. Data were analyzed 
using multivariate regression models adjusted for socio-demographic 
characteristics and risk factors for age-related pathologies. The results of the 
study show that centenarians' offspring have a better functional status, a 
reduced risk for several age-related pathologies and reduced drug consumption 
than the offspring of non-long-lived parents. In addition, the health status of 
centenarians' offspring does not appear to be influenced by the longevity of the 
second parent. It therefore seems possible to conclude that at ages around 70 
years the genetic contribution to health status deriving from having one 
centenarian parent is not substantially improved if the other parent is also 
long-lived.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.02.004
PMID: 23403041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. JAMA. 2013 Feb 13;309(6):534. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.475.

US longevity falls short vs that of peer countries.

Kuehn BM.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.475
PMID: 23403657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Ann Hematol. 2013 Jun;92(6):825-30. doi: 10.1007/s00277-013-1688-2. Epub
2013  Feb 13.

Modelling cost effectiveness of horse antithymocyte globulin for treating severe 
aplastic anaemia in Germany.

Heublein S(1), Wehner F, Höchsmann B, Hochhaus A, Hartmann M, La Rosée P.

Author information:
(1)Center for Sepsis Control and Care, Universitätsklinikum Jena, Jena, Germany. 
steffen.heublein@med.uni-jena.de

Acquired severe aplastic anaemia (AA) is a serious condition caused by 
immune-triggered bone marrow failure. For patients not eligible for bone marrow 
transplantation, treatment of choice is immunosuppression by a combined 
treatment with antithymocyte globulin (ATG) and cyclosporine. The debate on 
treatment optimization in AA is focused on conflicting data regarding ATG 
preparations from horse (h-ATG) versus rabbit (r-ATG), recently favouring h-ATG. 
H-ATG has been withdrawn from the European market in 2007. Reimbursement for 
imported preparations from outside Europe is frequently denied in negotiations 
with statutory health insurance companies. This raises the question of whether 
h-ATG is cost effective and a sensible investment with regard to healthcare 
budgets as well as patient health. We modelled the cost effectiveness of r-ATG 
versus h-ATG based on a recent randomized trial and cost data provided by the 
hospital pharmacy of Jena University Hospital. We calculated the amount of life 
years gained and the average incremental costs per life year gained when 
comparing h-ATG and r-ATG. Our calculations revealed average incremental costs 
per life year gained of <euro>11,033.80 for the examined patient population 
treated with h-ATG when compared to r-ATG. Assuming a cost effectiveness 
threshold of <euro>25,000-35,000 per life year gained, our calculations 
demonstrate cost effectiveness of h-ATG as compared to r-ATG.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-013-1688-2
PMID: 23404582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Heart Fail Rev. 2014 Jan;19(1):49-63. doi: 10.1007/s10741-013-9374-y.

Advanced glycation end products: role in pathology of diabetic cardiomyopathy.

Bodiga VL(1), Eda SR, Bodiga S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, Krishna University, Machilipatnam, Andhra 
Pradesh, India.

Increasing evidence demonstrates that advanced glycation end products (AGEs) 
play a pivotal role in the development and progression of diabetic heart 
failure, although there are numerous other factors that mediate the disease 
response. AGEs are generated intra- and extracellularly as a result of chronic 
hyperglycemia. Then, following the interaction with receptors for advanced 
glycation end products (RAGEs), a series of events leading to vascular and 
myocardial damage are elicited and sustained, which include oxidative stress, 
increased inflammation, and enhanced extracellular matrix accumulation resulting 
in diastolic and systolic dysfunction. Whereas targeting glycemic control and 
treating additional risk factors, such as obesity, dyslipidemia, and 
hypertension, are mandatory to reduce chronic complications and prolong life 
expectancy in diabetic patients, drug therapy tailored to reducing the 
deleterious effects of the AGE-RAGE interactions is being actively investigated 
and showing signs of promise in treating diabetic cardiomyopathy and associated 
heart failure. This review shall discuss the formation of AGEs in diabetic heart 
tissue, potential targets of glycation in the myocardium, and underlying 
mechanisms that lead to diabetic cardiomyopathy and heart failure along with the 
use of AGE inhibitors and breakers in mitigating myocardial injury.

DOI: 10.1007/s10741-013-9374-y
PMID: 23404649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Prev Sci. 2014 Apr;15(2):125-137. doi: 10.1007/s11121-012-0347-5.

The impact of a prevention delivery system on perceived social capital: the 
PROSPER project.

Chilenski SM(1)(2), Ang PM(3), Greenberg MT(4), Feinberg ME(4), Spoth R(5).

Author information:
(1)Prevention Research Center, The Pennsylvania State University, University 
Park, PA, USA. sarah.chilenski@gmail.com.
(2), 135 E Nittany Ave, Suite 402, State College, PA, 16801, USA. 
sarah.chilenski@gmail.com.
(3)University of Nottingham Malaysia, Semenyih, Malaysia.
(4)Prevention Research Center, The Pennsylvania State University, University 
Park, PA, USA.
(5)Partnerships in Prevention Science Institute, Iowa State University, Ames, 
IA, USA.

The current study examined the impact of the PROSPER delivery system for 
evidence-based prevention programs on multiple indicators of social capital in a 
rural and semi-rural community sample. Utilizing a randomized blocked design, 
317 individuals in 28 communities across two states were interviewed at three 
time points over the course of 2.5 years. Bridging, linking, and the public life 
skills forms of social capital were assessed via community members' and leaders' 
reports on the perceptions of school functioning and the Cooperative Extension 
System, collaboration among organizations, communication and collaboration 
around youth problems, and other measures. Longitudinal mixed model results 
indicate significant improvements in some aspects of bridging and linking social 
capital in PROSPER intervention communities. Given the strength of the 
longitudinal and randomized research design, results advance prevention science 
by suggesting that community collaborative prevention initiatives can 
significantly impact community social capital in a rural and semi-rural sample. 
Future research should further investigate changes in social capital in 
different contexts and how changes in social capital relate to other 
intervention effects.

DOI: 10.1007/s11121-012-0347-5
PMCID: PMC3718867
PMID: 23404665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2013 Feb;21(2):398-404. doi: 10.1002/oby.20019.

Turning the analysis of obesity-mortality associations upside down: modeling 
years of life lost through conditional distributions.

Robertson HT(1), de los Campos G, Allison DB.

Author information:
(1)Biostatistics Department, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
USA. hrobertson@ms.soph.uab.edu

OBJECTIVE: We demonstrate the utility of parametric survival analysis. The 
analysis of longevity as a function of risk factors such as body mass index 
(BMI; kg/m(2) ), activity levels, and dietary factors is a mainstay of obesity 
research. Modeling survival through hazard functions, relative risks, or odds of 
dying with methods such as Cox proportional hazards or logistic regression are 
the most common approaches and have many advantages. However, they also have 
disadvantages in terms of the ease of interpretability, especially for 
non-statisticians; the need for additional data to convert parameter estimates 
to estimates of years of life lost (YLL); debates about the appropriate time 
scale in the model; and an inability to estimate median survival time when the 
censoring rate is too high.
DESIGN AND METHODS: We will conduct parametric survival analyses with multiple 
distributions, including distributions that are known to be poor fits 
(Gaussian), as well as a newly discovered "Compressed Gaussian"'' distribution.
RESULTS: Parametric survival analysis models were able to accurately estimate 
median survival times in a population-based data set of 15,703 individuals, even 
for distributions that were not good fits and the censoring rate was high, due 
to the central limit theorem.
CONCLUSIONS: Parametric survival models are able to provide more direct answers, 
and in our analysis of an obesity-related data set, gave consistent YLL 
estimates regardless of the distribution used. We recommend increased 
consideration of parametric survival models in chronic disease and risk factor 
epidemiology.

Copyright © 2012 The Obesity Society.

DOI: 10.1002/oby.20019
PMCID: PMC3610864
PMID: 23404823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: David B. Allison has 
received book royalties, grants, consulting fees, and donations from multiple 
profit and non-profit entities with interests in obesity, including 
pharmaceutical companies which compete with the manufacturers of sibutramine and 
from the manufacturers of sibutramine. The remaining authors declare no conflict 
of interest.


295. Krankenpfl Soins Infirm. 2013;106(1):8-12, 54-8, 78-82.

[Medicine without limits - for which life?].

[Article in French, German, Italian]

Camenzind M.

PMID: 23405443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Lancet Oncol. 2013 Mar;14(3):219-27. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70009-3.
Epub  2013 Feb 11.

Palliative use of non-invasive ventilation in end-of-life patients with solid 
tumours: a randomised feasibility trial.

Nava S(1), Ferrer M, Esquinas A, Scala R, Groff P, Cosentini R, Guido D, Lin CH, 
Cuomo AM, Grassi M.

Author information:
(1)Respiratory and Critical Care, Sant'Orsola Malpighi Hospital, Alma Mater 
Studiorum, University of Bologna, Department of Specialistic, Diagnostic and 
Experimental Medicine (DIMES), Bologna, Italy. stefano.nava@aosp.bo.it

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2013 Mar;14(3):181-2.
    Lancet Oncol. 2013 May;14(6):e199-200.
    Lancet Oncol. 2013 May;14(6):e200-1.
    Lancet Oncol. 2013 May;14(6):e201.

BACKGROUND: Despite best-possible medical management, many patients with 
end-stage cancer experience breathlessness, especially towards the end of their 
lives. We assessed the acceptability and effectiveness of non-invasive 
mechanical ventilation (NIV) versus oxygen therapy in decreasing dyspnoea and 
the amount of opiates needed.
METHODS: In this randomised feasibility study, we recruited patients from seven 
centres in Italy, Spain, and Taiwan, who had solid tumours and acute respiratory 
failure and had a life expectancy of less than 6 months. We randomly allocated 
patients to receive either NIV (using the Pressure Support mode and scheduled on 
patients' request and mask comfort) or oxygen therapy (using a Venturi or a 
reservoir mask). We used a computer-generated sequence for randomisation, 
stratified on the basis of patients' hypercapnic status (PaCO2 >45 mm Hg or 
PaCO2 ≤45 mm Hg), and assigned treatment allocation using opaque, sealed 
envelopes. Patients in both groups were given sufficient subcutaneous morphine 
to reduce their dyspnoea score by at least one point on the Borg scale. Our 
primary endpoints were to assess the acceptability of NIV used solely as a 
palliative measure and to assess its effectiveness in reducing dyspnoea and the 
amount of opiates needed compared with oxygen therapy. Analysis was done by 
intention to treat. This study is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number 
NCT00533143.
FINDINGS: We recruited patients between Jan 15, 2008, and March 9, 2011. Of 234 
patients eligible for recruitment, we randomly allocated 200 (85%) to treatment: 
99 to NIV and 101 to oxygen. 11 (11%) patients in the NIV group discontinued 
treatment; no patients in the oxygen group discontinued treatment. Dyspnoea 
decreased more rapidly in the NIV group compared with the oxygen group (average 
change in Borg scale -0·58, 95% CI -0·92 to -0·23, p=0·0012), with most benefit 
seen after the first hour of treatment and in hypercapnic patients. The total 
dose of morphine during the first 48 h was lower in the NIV group than it was in 
the oxygen group (26·9 mg [37·3] for NIV vs 59·4 mg [SD 67·1] for oxygen; mean 
difference -32·4 mg, 95% CI -47·5 to -17·4). Adverse events leading to NIV 
discontinuation were mainly related to mask intolerance and anxiety. Morphine 
was suspended because of severe vomiting and nausea (one patient in each group), 
sudden respiratory arrest (one patient in the NIV group), and myocardial 
infarction (one patient in the oxygen group).
INTERPRETATION: Our findings suggest that NIV is more effective compared with 
oxygen in reducing dyspnoea and decreasing the doses of morphine needed in 
patients with end-stage cancer. Further studies are needed to confirm our 
findings and to assess the effectiveness of NIV on other outcomes such as 
survival. The use of NIV is, however, restricted to centres with NIV equipment, 
our findings are not generalisable to all cancer or palliative care units.
FUNDING: None.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70009-3
PMID: 23406914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Gerontology. 2013;59(3):276-82. doi: 10.1159/000346355. Epub 2013 Feb 12.

How many years of life did the fall of the Berlin Wall add? A projection of East 
German life expectancy.

Vogt TC(1).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research and Institute for Sociology and 
Demographic Research, University of Rostock, Rostock, Germany. 
vogt@demogr.mpg.de

BACKGROUND: In the two decades since reunification, East Germans have 
experienced a large increase in life expectancy and a convergence with the West 
German mortality level. This gain in life expectancy appears even more 
impressive if we assume a different scenario in which the Berlin Wall did not 
fall, and the old East Germany still existed.
OBJECTIVE: This analysis takes into account that East German mortality would not 
have remained static without reunification. Thus, it shows how many years of 
life expectancy were actually added by the fall of the Berlin Wall.
METHOD: The analysis shows the improvements for single age groups by projecting 
life expectancy based on mortality levels during the 1970s and 1980s using the 
Lee-Carter method. I use national-level data for both sexes for East Germany 
before reunification.
RESULTS: I find that, without reunification, current life expectancy at birth 
among East Germans would be 4.0 years lower for females and 5.7 years lower for 
males. I also show that older East Germans were the main demographic 
beneficiaries of reunification. Female and male mortality improvements in the 
age groups above 60 contributed up to 80% to the actual gains in life 
expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Had the Berlin Wall not fallen, East German mortality would not 
have remained static but improved at a far slower rate. Thus, this 
counterfactual approach shows for the first time how many years of life were 
actually gained by reunification and how much of these gains were attributable 
to mortality improvements among the elderly.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000346355
PMID: 23407046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Urol Int. 2013;90(3):329-33. doi: 10.1159/000346387. Epub 2013 Feb 9.

Skeletal-related events in metastatic prostate cancer and the number needed to 
treat: a critical consideration.

Schmitz-Dräger BJ(1), Weiss C, Ebert T, Dörsam J, Bismarck E.

Author information:
(1)Urologie, EuromedClinic/Urologie, Fürth, Germany. bsd@euromed.de

PURPOSE: With stage migration induced by early diagnosis of prostate-specific 
antigen, the course of disease for prostate cancer (PCa) patients has changed. 
Increasingly, patients undergo long-term androgen ablation with consecutive 
risks including osteoporosis and pathologic fractures. A recent randomized trial 
found that the RANK ligand inhibitor denosumab was more effective preventing 
skeletal-related events in patients with metastatic PCa as compared to treatment 
with the bisphosphonate zoledronic acid. This improved efficacy was linked to an 
increase of side effects.
METHODS: The present analysis compares results reported for both substances 
using a number needed to treat analysis approach. Based upon these findings, 
risk-benefit calculations were performed.
RESULTS: The results demonstrate that for patients with bone metastatic 
castration-resistant PCa, decision for or against treatment with either 
denosumab or zoledronic acid must not only consider efficacy but needs to 
balance the desired effects versus potential side effects. This is of specific 
relevance since life expectancy is limited in this patient cohort with end-stage 
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Further scientific efforts are necessary to identify optimal dosing 
and application intervals for denosumab and zoledronic acid as well as to answer 
the question of optimal duration of treatment. These findings will directly 
impact the risk versus benefit relations for both therapeutic options.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000346387
PMID: 23407093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. J Health Psychol. 2014 Mar;19(3):393-406. doi: 10.1177/1359105312471569.
Epub  2013 Feb 13.

At the 'heart' of the matter: an exploration of the psychological impact of 
living with congenital heart disease in adulthood.

Cornett L(1), Simms J.

Author information:
(1)University of Ulster, UK.

The psychological impact of living with congenital heart disease in adulthood 
was explored using semi-structured interviews with seven adults. Participants 
described living with congenital heart disease as a constant and limiting 
presence, which impacts upon the relationship with self and others. 
Psychological and emotional reactions ranged from depression, shame, trauma, 
lack of control and an ongoing struggle with issues of uncertainty and life 
expectancy. Various coping strategies were identified such as denial and 
overcompensation. Participants reported that they were not psychologically 
supported by health professionals. Implications of findings are discussed with 
regard to service provision.

DOI: 10.1177/1359105312471569
PMID: 23407131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Pol Orthop Traumatol. 2013 Feb 14;78:53-8.

Clinical and functional evaluation of patients after total elbow arthroplasty.

Lubiatowski P(1), Olczak I, Lisiewicz E, Bręborowicz M, Długosz J, Redman M, 
Ogrodowicz P, Romanowski L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Traumatology and Hand Surgery, University of 
Medical Sciences in Poznań, Poznań, Poland. p.lubiatowski@rehasport.pl

BACKGROUND: The operation of the total elbow arthroplasty (TEA) is recommended 
in case of advanced joint destruction. At present both in our country and 
abroad, the number of elbow arthroplasties performed per year is increasing. 
Surgical procedures are difficult, and postoperative complications may arise. 
The aim of this study is to evaluate the function of the elbow and the clinical 
status of patients after having undergone TEA.
MATERIAL/METHODS: Our research is based on 18 patients who had undergone total 
elbow arthroplasty. The average patient age was 60. The follow-up time varied 
from 8-108 months. Postoperative assessment included the evaluation of the range 
of motion and grip strength using a dynamometer. Functional evaluation was 
carried out using Mayo Elbow Performance Score (MEPS), Disabilities of the Arm, 
Shoulder and Hand (DASH) and the SECEC Elbow Score (SES). We had also assessed 
the pain level (VAS), postoperative complications and patient satisfaction. The 
study included X-rays of the elbow for the evaluation of prosthesis integrity 
and possible signs of implant loosening.
RESULTS: The increase of the range of motion was seen among all patients. The 
amplitude of flexion and extension increased by an average of 25.3° (p<0.02). 
The results of all questionnaires of functional assessment showed a significant 
improvement comparing to results before surgery: DASH - 82.6 (±24.6) vs. 116.7 
(±24.2), SECEC - 39.3 (±8.5) vs. 27.9 (±9.2), MEPS - 65 (±23.3) vs. 35.8 
(±16.9). The VAS pain decreased from 10.9 (±3) to 5.3 (±4). In the postoperative 
period, 4 patients experienced inflammation, 2 patients had a loosening of 
prosthesis, and 6 needed a revision of the prosthesis. 94.4% patients were 
satisfied with the treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Total elbow arthroplasty effectively improves the clinical status 
of the patient by reducing pain, increasing range of motion and improving many 
activities of daily life.

PMID: 23407601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Health Econ. 2014 Feb;23(2):199-224. doi: 10.1002/hec.2910. Epub 2013 Feb
14.

Does fiscal discipline towards subnational governments affect citizens' 
well-being? Evidence on health.

Piacenza M(1), Turati G.

Author information:
(1)University of Torino, Turin, Italy; HERMES, Moncalieri, Italy; Ceris-CNR, 
Moncalieri, Italy.

This paper aims to assess the impact on citizens' well-being of fiscal 
discipline imposed by the central government on subnational governments. Because 
healthcare policies involve strategic interactions between different layers of 
governments in many different countries, we focus on a particular dimension of 
well-being, namely citizens' health. We model fiscal discipline by considering 
government expectations of future deficit bailouts from the central government. 
We then study how these bailout expectations affect the expenditure for 
healthcare policies carried out by decentralized governments. To investigate 
this issue, we separate efficient health spending from inefficiencies by 
estimating an input requirement frontier. This allows us to assess the effects 
of bailout expectations on both the structural component of health expenditure 
and its deviations from the 'best practice'. The evidence from the 15 Italian 
ordinary statute regions (observed from 1993 to 2006) points out that bailout 
expectations do not significantly influence the position of the frontier, thus 
not affecting citizens' health. However, they do appear to exert a remarkable 
impact on excess spending.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2910
PMID: 23408583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. X-Linked Protoporphyria.

Balwani M(1), Desnick R(1); Porphyrias Consortium of the NIH-Sponsored Rare 
Diseases Clinical Research Network.

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2013 Feb 14 [updated 2019 Nov 27].

Author information:
(1)Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: X-linked protoporphyria (XLP) is characterized in 
affected males by cutaneous photosensitivity (usually beginning in infancy or 
childhood) that results in tingling, burning, pain, and itching within minutes 
of sun/light exposure and may be accompanied by swelling and redness. Blistering 
lesions are uncommon. Pain, which may seem out of proportion to the visible skin 
lesions, may persist for hours or days after the initial phototoxic reaction. 
Photosensitivity is lifelong. Multiple episodes of acute photosensitivity may 
lead to chronic changes of sun-exposed skin (lichenification, leathery 
pseudovesicles, grooving around the lips) and loss of lunulae of the nails. An 
unknown proportion of individuals with XLP develop liver disease. Except for 
those with advanced liver disease, life expectancy is not reduced. The phenotype 
in heterozygous females ranges from asymptomatic to as severe as in affected 
males.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of XLP is established in a male proband with 
markedly increased free erythrocyte protoporphyrin and zinc-chelated erythrocyte 
protoporphyrin by identification of a hemizygous pathogenic gain-of-function 
variant in ALAS2 on molecular genetic testing. The diagnosis of XLP is 
established in a female proband with increased free erythrocyte protoporphyrin 
and zinc-chelated erythrocyte protoporphyrin by identification of a heterozygous 
pathogenic gain-of-function variant in ALAS2 on molecular genetic testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: The phototoxicity and subsequent pain 
can be reduced by the administration of afamelanotide, an 
α-melanocyte-stimulating hormone analog. Otherwise, the only effective treatment 
is prevention of the painful attacks by avoidance of sun/light (including the 
long-wave ultraviolet light that passes through window glass) through use of 
protective clothing (e.g., long sleeves, gloves, wide-brimmed hats, protective 
tinted glass for cars and windows). Although topical sunscreens are typically 
not useful, some tanning products containing creams that cause increased 
pigmentation may be helpful. Oral Lumitene™ (β-carotene) has been used to 
improve tolerance to sunlight by causing mild skin discoloration due to 
carotenemia; however, a systematic review of treatment options showed no 
evidence of efficacy. Vitamin D supplementation is recommended to prevent 
vitamin D insufficiency resulting from sun avoidance. Severe liver complications 
are difficult to treat: cholestyramine and other porphyrin absorbents (to 
interrupt the enterohepatic circulation of protoporphyrin and promote its fecal 
excretion) and plasmapheresis and intravenous hemin are sometimes beneficial. 
Liver transplantation can be a lifesaving measure in individuals with severe 
protoporphyric liver disease; combined bone marrow and liver transplantation is 
indicated in those with liver failure to prevent future damage to the 
allografts. Surveillance: Monitoring of: hepatic function every 6-12 months and 
hepatic imaging if cholelithiasis is suspected; erythrocyte protoporphyrin 
levels (free and zinc-chelated), hematologic indices, and iron profile annually; 
vitamin D 25-OH levels. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Sunlight and UV light; 
for those with hepatic dysfunction, drugs that may induce cholestasis (e.g., 
estrogens). For those with cholestatic liver failure, protective filters should 
be used for the operating room lights for liver transplant surgery to avoid 
phototoxic damage. Evaluation of relatives at risk: If the ALAS2 pathogenic 
variant has been identified in an affected family member, at-risk relatives can 
be tested as newborns or infants so that those with the pathogenic variant can 
benefit from early intervention (sun protection) and future monitoring for signs 
of liver dysfunction.
GENETIC COUNSELING: By definition, XLP is inherited in an X-linked manner. 
Affected males transmit the pathogenic variant to all of their daughters and 
none of their sons. Women with an ALAS2 pathogenic variant have a 50% chance of 
transmitting the variant to each child. Once the ALAS2 pathogenic variant has 
been identified in an affected family member, heterozygote testing for at-risk 
female relatives, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased risk, and 
preimplantation genetic testing are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 23409301


303. Acta Orthop Belg. 2012 Dec;78(6):714-8.

Results of ulnar shortening osteotomy for ulnocarpal abutment after malunited 
distal radius fracture.

Tatebe M(1), Shinohara T, Okui N, Yamamoto M, Imaeda T, Hirata H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hand Surgery, Nagoya University School of Medicine and Kinjo 
Gakuin University School of Human Life and Environment, Nagoya, Japan. 
tatebe@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp

Surgical correction for ulnocarpal abutment syndrome after malunited distal 
radius fracture remains controversial. We reviewed sixteen patients (7 men, 9 
women) who underwent isolated ulnar-shortening osteotomy for ulnar wrist pain as 
their main complaint. Mean age was 48 years. The range of flexion-extension 
increased from 81 degrees to 103 degrees, and range of supination-pronation from 
120 degrees to 142 degrees after osteotomy. Mean grip strength increased from 
49% to 69%. Mayo wrist score was excellent in 2 cases, good in 7 cases, fair in 
6 cases, and poor in 1 case. Grip strength was found to correlate with radial 
inclination and flexion-extension range with the amount of ulna shortening.

PMID: 23409565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Rev Med Suisse. 2013 Jan 16;9(369):100-3.

[Diabetes].

[Article in French]

Ruiz J(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'endocrinologie, diabétologie et métabolisme, CHUV, 1011 Lausanne. 
juan.ruiz@chuv.ch

The new recommendations on the pharmacological treatment of type 2 diabetes have 
introduced two important changes. The first is to have common strategies between 
European and American diabetes societies. The second, which is certainly the 
most significant, is to develop a patient centred approach suggesting therapies 
that take into account the patient's preferences and use of decision support 
tools. The individual approach integrates six factors: the capacity and 
motivation of the patient to manage his illness and its treatment, the risks of 
hypoglycemia, the life expectancy, the presence of co-morbidities and vascular 
complications, as well as the financial resources of the patient and the 
healthcare system. Treatment guidelines for cardiovascular risk reduction in 
diabetic remains the last point to develop.

PMID: 23409644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Scoliosis. 2013 Feb 14;8(1):3. doi: 10.1186/1748-7161-8-3.

The carbon brace.

Bernard JC(1), Lecante C, Deceuninck J, Notin G, Journoud L, Barral F.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Department, Massues Hospital, CMCR des Massues, Lyon, France. 
bernard-mpr@cmcr-massues.com.

BACKGROUND: The CMCR brace (Corset MonocoqueCarbone respectant la Respiration 
-which means Monoshell Carbon Brace respecting Breathing) is an innovative 
brace, used in orthopaedic treatment for progressive thoracic, thoraco-lumbar or 
combined scoliosis, whatever their etiology. It can be used at the very young 
age without disrupting the chest growth, but should be kept for reducible 
scoliosis in older teenagers. BRACE DESCRIPTION AND PRINCIPLES: The CMCR brace 
is monoshell while retaining the corrective principle of the polyvalve Lyon 
brace with one or two supports (brace "pads") located on hump(s).In contrast to 
Lyon brace made of plexidur and structured by metal reinforcement with 
adjustable but fixed localized supports, the CMCR brace is made of polyethylene 
and carbon with adjustable and mobile supports. This mobility provides a 
permanent pressure, which varies depending on ribs and spine movements.The 
correction is obtained without spinal extension so that each respiratory 
movement takes part in a gradual return to dorsal kyphosis.
RESULTS: Results were presented in two published analysis:• In the first 
retrospective study about 115 patients, French-published in the Annals of 
Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (2005), the CMCR brace stabilized moderate 
scoliosis, decreased the vital capacity (VC) of 13% compared to the VC without 
brace, and did not have sufficient impact on the hump reduction. Treatment had 
better results when started at Risser 3 or 4 than Risser 0, 1, 2. The brace was 
then modified to increase the dorsal pad pressure and the location of correction 
forces was defined more precisely through the use of 3D analysis.• The second 
study published in Scoliosis (2011) mainly focused on the impact on VC at brace 
setting up and followed a cohort of 90 patients treated with CMCR. Girls as well 
as boys increased VC during treatment, and at brace definitive removal, VC had 
increased of 21% from the initial value, whereas the theoretical VC at the same 
time rose by 18%.The difference between the time where the child actually wears 
its brace and the time asked by the clinician for the brace to be worn is only 1 
hour, which means that this brace is accepted by teenagers.
CONCLUSIONS: Orthopaedic treatment is still a heavy treatment for teenagers in 
growth period. This orthosis is designed to partly maintain spine and chest 
mobility. We hope so to have part in improving life conditions of these 
teenagers, compared to those treated with rigid braces.

DOI: 10.1186/1748-7161-8-3
PMCID: PMC3599608
PMID: 23409701


306. J Med Econ. 2013;16(5):596-605. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.773333. Epub 2013
Mar  4.

Cost-utility of pregabalin as add-on to usual care versus usual care alone in 
the management of peripheral neuropathic pain in Belgium.

Chevalier P(1), Lamotte M, Van Campenhout H, Eyckerman R, Annemans L.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health HEOR, Brussels, Belgium. Pchevalier@be.imshealth.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: The cost effectiveness of pregabalin as an add-on to 
the standard treatment of Belgian patients with post-herpetic neuralgia (PHN) 
had been demonstrated in a previously published Markov model. The purpose of 
this study was to update that model with more recent cost data and clinical 
evidence, and reevaluate the cost effectiveness from the payer's perspective of 
add-on pregabalin in a wider set of NeP conditions.
METHODS: The model, featuring 4-week cycles and a 1-year time horizon, consisted 
in four possible health states: mild, moderate or severe pain and withdrawn from 
therapy. Three versions of the model were developed, using transition 
probabilities derived from pain scores reported in three placebo-controlled 
studies. The two treatment arms were 'usual care' or 'usual care + pregabalin'. 
Resource use and utility data were obtained from a chart review and unit costs 
from recent published data. The final outcome of the model was the incremental 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained when adding pregabalin to 
standard care.
RESULTS: Based on 1000 simulations, two versions of the model showed that 
pregabalin was dominant respectively in 94.8% and 67.2% of the simulations, 
while the incremental cost per QALY was below €32,000/QALY in respectively 99.1% 
and 94.6% of the simulations. The third version did not show cost effectiveness, 
despite an incremental cost of only €300 after 1 year. However, in the 
corresponding study, patients seemed less responsive to GABA analogs, since 55% 
of them had failed to respond to gabapentin before study inclusion.
LIMITATIONS: The studies upon which the model is based have a short follow-up 
time as compared to the model horizon. The endpoints of two studies were only 
provided at the aggregated level and do not necessarily reflect the real 
practice.
CONCLUSION: Based on this analysis, it can be concluded that from a Belgium 
payer perspective pregabalin offers a slight increase in quality of life in the 
studied populations as compared to standard care. Pregabalin is cost effective 
in the majority of cases except in one published clinical study, despite a low 
incremental cost per year (€300).

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.773333
PMID: 23409950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2013 Mar 15;432(3):526-32. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.02.014. Epub 2013 Feb 11.

Exclusive expression of VMAT2 in noradrenergic neurons increases viability of 
homozygous VMAT2 knockout mice.

Ohara A(1), Kasahara Y, Yamamoto H, Hata H, Kobayashi H, Numachi Y, Miyoshi I, 
Hall FS, Uhl GR, Ikeda K, Sora I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Psychiatry, Tohoku University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Sendai, Japan.

The vesicular monoamine transporter 2 (VMAT2) translocates monoamine 
neurotransmitters from the neuronal cytoplasm into synaptic vesicles. Since 
VMAT2-/- mice die within a few days of birth, it is difficult to analyze the 
detailed VMAT2 functions using these mice. In this study, we generated human 
VMAT2 transgenic mice that expressed VMAT2 in noradrenergic neurons with the aim 
to rescue the lethality of VMAT2 deletion. The expression of human VMAT2 in 
noradrenergic neurons extended the life of VMAT2-/- mice for up to three weeks, 
and these mice showed severe growth deficiency compared with VMAT2+/+ mice. 
These results may indicate that VMAT2 expressed in noradrenergic neurons has 
crucial roles in survival during the first several weeks after birth, and VMAT2 
functions in other monoaminergic systems could be required for further extended 
survival. Although VMAT2 rescue in noradrenergic neurons did not eliminate the 
increased morbidity and lethality associated with VMAT2 deletion, the extension 
of the lifespan in VMAT2 transgenic mice will enable behavioral, pharmacological 
and pathophysiological studies of VMAT2 function.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.02.014
PMID: 23410751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2013 Feb 1;11(2):183-7. doi:
10.6004/jnccn.2013.0026.

The role of active surveillance in the management of prostate cancer.

Fung-Kee-Fung SD(1), Porten SP, Meng MV, Kuettel M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, NY 
14263, USA.

In 2010, NCCN incorporated active surveillance (AS) into the NCCN Clinical 
Practice Guidelines in Oncology for Prostate Cancer, and the 2012 update serves 
as an excellent resource with the most current evidence regarding treatment 
options for men with all stages of disease. However, the lack of clinical trials 
that directly compare various treatment modalities or identify the best 
management, especially for men with low-risk prostate cancer, makes the 
decision-making process difficult for both patients and physicians. Although 
general agreement exists on definitions of candidates for AS-men with low-volume 
and low-grade disease thought to be at low risk for rapid progression-several 
key issues remain in establishing and supporting the role of AS in the 
management of prostate cancer, such as optimal timing and appropriate triggers 
for active treatment. The decision to initially pursue AS rather than active 
treatment after prostate cancer diagnosis is complex and involves myriad 
factors, including estimation of life expectancy, consideration of quality of 
life, and assessment of ultimate oncologic outcome.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2013.0026
PMID: 23411385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Eur J Orthop Surg Traumatol. 2013 Nov;23 Suppl 2:S155-8. doi: 
10.1007/s00590-012-1081-1. Epub 2012 Sep 23.

Early surgical intervention for spinal infection in patients with malignancy 
requiring chemotherapy: report of two cases and review of the literature.

Nagashima H(1), Nanjo Y, Tanida A, Dokai T, Yamane K, Teshima R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Tottori University, 
36-1 Nishi-cho, Yonago, Tottori, 683-8504, Japan, hidekin@med.tottori-u.ac.jp.

Advances in chemotherapy for various malignancies have contributed to the 
increased life expectancy of patients. If such a patient has a concurrent 
infection, his/her oncologist would hesitate to perform prompt chemotherapy 
owing to the risk of inducing sepsis. Therefore, the treatment of infection 
would have priority over initiating chemotherapy for the malignancy. We present 
a 69-year-old female with malignant lymphoma requiring prompt chemotherapy who 
also demonstrated spinal infection with Mycobacterium tuberculosis and a 
66-year-old male with esophageal cancer who also demonstrated spinal infection 
with Staphylococcus aureus. Anterior debridement and interbody fusion were 
performed for both patients. One patient died of malignant lymphoma 4 years 
after surgery, and the other is still alive and has remained disease-free 4 
years after surgery. Saving the life of a patient with malignancy would be 
difficult without prompt chemotherapy. Conservative treatment for spinal 
infection requires prolonged antibiotic treatment, and there is no guarantee 
that the spinal infection would be controlled only with antibiotics. Therefore, 
early surgical intervention would be an alternative option under such a 
condition.

DOI: 10.1007/s00590-012-1081-1
PMID: 23412213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Eur J Orthop Surg Traumatol. 2014 Feb;24(2):187-95. doi: 
10.1007/s00590-013-1170-9. Epub 2013 Feb 15.

The cost-effectiveness of multi-component interventions to prevent delirium in 
older people undergoing surgical repair of hip fracture.

Akunne A(1), Davis S, Westby M, Young J.

Author information:
(1)KSG-Trans Ltd, 35 Hengrove Close, Headington, Oxford, OX3 9LN, UK, 
akunneaf@netscape.net.

This article summarizes the detailed cost-effectiveness analysis of delirium 
prevention interventions in people undergoing surgical repair of hip fracture. 
We compared a multi-component delirium prevention intervention with usual care 
using a model based on a decision tree analysis. The model was used to estimate 
the incremental net monetary benefit (INMB). The robustness of the 
cost-effectiveness result was explored using deterministic and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses. The multi-component prevention intervention was 
cost-effective when compared to usual care. It was associated with an INMB of 
£8,180 using a cost-effectiveness threshold of £20,000 per QALY. It remained 
cost-effective in the majority of the deterministic sensitivity analyses and was 
cost-effective in 96.4 % of the simulations carried out in the probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis. We have demonstrated the cost-effectiveness of a 
multi-component delirium prevention intervention that targets modifiable risk 
factors for delirium in older people undergoing surgical repair of hip fracture. 
It is an attractive intervention for practitioners and health care policy makers 
as they address the double burden of hip fracture and delirium.

DOI: 10.1007/s00590-013-1170-9
PMID: 23412312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Int J Prev Med. 2013 Jan;4(1):50-6.

The Effect of Aquatic Exercise Therapy on Muscle Strength and Joint's Range of 
Motion in Hemophilia Patients.

Kargarfard M(1), Dehghadani M, Ghias R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Exercise Physiology, School of Physical Education and Sport 
Sciences, University of Isfahan, Isfahan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: This study was to evaluate the effect of a period of aquatic 
exercise therapy on muscle strength and joints range of motion in hemophilia 
patients.
METHODS: This was a semiexperimental, pretest, post-test study with a control 
group. This semi-experimental study comprised twenty men suffering moderate 
hemophilia were selected by convenience sampling method from patients of a 
referral hospital. They were randomly assigned to intervention and control 
groups of equal number. The hemophilia patients who were referred to 
Sayedo-Shohada Hospital enrolled in this study. Twenty men suffering moderate 
hemophilia were selected using convenience sampling method and then divided 
randomly into intervention and control groups (10 patients in each group). 
Subjects of aquatic exercise therapy group underwent activity in water in three 
sessions (45-60 minutes) per week for 8 weeks, while the control group was only 
under follow-up and during this period did not experience any effective physical 
activity. The patients' muscle strength and joint range of motion were evaluated 
through standard laboratory tools, using an isokinetic dynamometer (Biodex, 
Systems III) and a standard goniometer in the beginning and at end of the study. 
Finally, data was analyzed using analysis of covariance (ANCOVA).
RESULTS: The strength of the muscles around the knee joint (to perform extension 
and flexion movements) increased significantly in the case group while the 
control group experienced a significant reduction of strength in left leg, but 
in right leg remarkable change was observed. Range of motion in all joints was 
improved in the case group, while the control group did not improve 
significantly.
CONCLUSION: The results showed that aquatic exercise therapy can be a useful 
method to improve joints' strength and range of motion in hemophilia patients in 
order to improve their daily functioning and quality of life.

PMCID: PMC3570911
PMID: 23412736

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


312. Andrology. 2013 Mar;1(2):256-61. doi: 10.1111/j.2047-2927.2012.00036.x. Epub
 2012 Nov 29.

Sexual bother and function after radical prostatectomy: predictors of sexual 
bother recovery in men despite persistent post-operative sexual dysfunction.

Kimura M(1), Bañez LL, Polascik TJ, Bernal RM, Gerber L, Robertson CN, Donatucci 
CF, Moul JW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, Duke University Medical Center, 
Durham, NC 27710, USA. masaki.kimura228@gmail.com

Changes in sexual bother (SB) following radical prostatectomy (RP) negatively 
affect health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of prostate cancer survivors. 
However, post-operative SB tends to be neglected whereas sexual function (SF) is 
thoroughly assessed in clinical practice and few studies have focused on and 
evaluated patients' SB. We retrospectively reviewed 2 345 consecutive patients 
who underwent RP between 2001 and 2009 at a single institution. SF and SB were 
assessed using Expanded Prostate Cancer Index Composite (EPIC) questionnaires. 
We stratified our cohort by SB recovery and post-operative SF status, including 
a subset of men who recovered SB despite persistent post-RP sexual dysfunction. 
Multivariable logistic regression analyses were conducted to identify factors 
for men who have SB recovery. Of 319 eligible patients, 133 (41.7%) recovered 
their SB at a mean of 20 months after RP. Among the 133 men who demonstrated SB 
recovery, 109 had post-operative sexual dysfunction. Patients with SB recovery 
despite post-RP sexual dysfunction were more likely to be old (p = 0.004), to 
have higher clinical T stage (p < 0.001), to have more non-nerve-sparing RP (p < 
0.001), to have lower pre-operative EPIC-SF/SB scores (p < 0.001), to have more 
extracapsular extension (p = 0.031) and to be PDE5i non-users after surgery (p < 
0.001). In multivariable analysis, predictors for this subset were lower 
comorbidity (OR 0.62, p = 0.043), higher clinical cancer stage (OR 2.35, p = 
0.026), worse pre-operative SF (OR 0.98, p = 0.010), SB (OR 0.98, p < 0.010) and 
no PDE5i use (OR 0.37, p = 0.002); age was not related (OR 0.99, p = 0.555). As 
SB can influence patients' overall HRQoL, expectations of SB recovery should be 
provided to patients in the same way that SF recovery is presented. This study 
may help clinicians to discuss SB with patients and assess their potential for 
SB recovery following RP.

© 2012 American Society of Andrology and European Academy of Andrology.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2047-2927.2012.00036.x
PMID: 23413138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Rev Med Suisse. 2013 Jan 23;9(370):212-3.

[Air pollution: gains in life expectancy are still possible].

[Article in French]

Nau JY(1).

Author information:
(1)jeanyves.nau@gmail.com

PMID: 23413655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2013 Mar;61(3):388-95. doi: 10.1111/jgs.12123. Epub 2013
Feb  15.

Targeting of mammography screening according to life expectancy in women aged 75 
and older.

Schonberg MA(1), Breslau ES, McCarthy EP.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA 02446, 
USA. mschonbe@bidmc.harvard.edu

OBJECTIVES: To examine receipt of mammography screening according to life 
expectancy in women aged 75 and older.
DESIGN: Population-based survey.
SETTING: United States.
PARTICIPANTS: Community dwelling U.S. women aged 75 and older who participated 
in the 2008 or 2010 National Health Interview Survey.
MEASUREMENTS: Using a previously developed and validated index, women were 
categorized according to life expectancy (>9, 5-9, <5 years). Receipt of 
mammography screening in the past 2 years was examined according to life 
expectancy, adjusting for sociodemographic characteristics, access to care, 
preventive orientation (e.g., receipt of influenza vaccination), and receipt of 
a clinician recommendation for screening.
RESULTS: Of 2,266 respondents, 27.1% had a life expectancy of greater than 
9 years, 53.4% had a life expectancy of 5 to 9 years, and 19.5% had a life 
expectancy of less than 5 years. Overall, 55.7% reported receiving mammography 
screening in the past 2 years. Life expectancy was strongly associated with 
receipt of screening (P < .001), yet 36.1% of women with less than 5 years life 
expectancy were screened, and 29.2% of women with more than 9 years life 
expectancy were not screened. A clinician recommendation for screening was the 
strongest predictor of screening independent of life expectancy. Higher 
educational attainment, age, receipt of influenza vaccination, and history of 
benign breast biopsy were also independently associated with being screened.
CONCLUSION: Despite uncertainty of benefit, many women aged 75 and older are 
screened with mammography. Life expectancy is strongly associated with receipt 
of screening, which may reflect clinicians and patients appropriately 
considering life expectancy in screening decisions, but 36% of women with short 
life expectancies are still screened, suggesting that new interventions are 
needed to further improve targeting of screening according to life expectancy. 
Decision aids and guidelines encouraging clinicians to consider patient life 
expectancy in screening decisions may improve care.

© 2013, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2013, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.12123
PMCID: PMC3602282
PMID: 23414437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: The editor in chief has 
reviewed the conflict of interest checklist provided by the authors and has 
determined that the authors have no financial or any other kind of personal 
conflicts with this paper.


315. Transplant Res. 2013 Feb 16;2(1):2. doi: 10.1186/2047-1440-2-2.

Estimating the long term impact of kidney donation on life expectancy and end 
stage renal disease.

Kiberd BA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, 5082 Dickson Building, 
Queen Elizabeth II HSC VG site, University Ave, Nova Scotia, B3H 1V8, Canada. 
bryce.kiberd@dal.ca.

BACKGROUND: Long term studies of live kidney donation do not show evidence of 
appreciable risks to the donor. However nephrectomy reduces total glomerular 
filtration rates (GFR) and is associated with increased rates of proteinuria and 
possibly hypertension. It is not clear to what extent these changes are 
associated with reduced life expectancy (LE) or increased risk of end stage 
renal disease (ESRD) since follow up is incomplete in most reports.
METHODS: In a computer simulation model based on a US population chronic kidney 
disease model, increased hazard rates for higher blood pressure, proteinuria and 
low GFR were applied to healthy individuals undergoing donor nephrectomy. 
Subsequent LE and cumulative risk of ESRD were calculated.
RESULTS: Kidney donation is projected to reduce LE by 0.83 years and increase 
the absolute cumulative risk of ESRD by 0.89% for a 40-year-old white male. 
White females were predicted to have slightly greater loss of life and less 
added ESRD risk. Conversely, Blacks have greater risks of ESRD after donation. 
