Author information:
(1)Keenan Research Centre, Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's 
Hospital, 30 Bond Street, Toronto, ON, M5B 1W8, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of genetic screening for the 
apolipoprotein (APOE) ε4 allele in combination with preventive donepezil 
treatment in comparison with the standard of care for amnestic mild cognitive 
impairment (AMCI) patients in Canada.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis using a Markov model with a 
societal perspective and a time horizon of 30 years. For each strategy, we 
calculated quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), using utilities from the 
literature. Costs were also based on the literature and, when appropriate, 
Ontario sources. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed. 
Expected value of perfect information (EVPI) analysis was conducted to explore 
the value of future research.
RESULTS: The base case results in our exploratory study suggest that the 
combination of genetic testing and preventive donepezil treatment resulted in a 
gain of 0.027 QALYs and an incremental cost of $1,015 (in 2009 Canadian dollars 
[Can$]), compared with the standard of care. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) for the base case was Can$38,016 per QALY. The ICER was sensitive 
to the effectiveness of donepezil in slowing the rate of progression to 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), utility in AMCI patients, and AD and donepezil 
treatment costs. EVPI analysis showed that additional information on these 
parameters would be of value.
CONCLUSION: Using presently available clinical evidence, this exploratory study 
illustrates that genetic testing combined with preventive donepezil treatment 
for AMCI patients may be economically attractive. Since our results were based 
on a secondary post hoc analysis, our study alone is insufficient to warrant 
recommending APOE genotyping in AMCI patients. Future research on the 
effectiveness of preventive donepezil as a targeted therapy is recommended.

DOI: 10.1007/s40291-012-0010-7
PMID: 23188525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2015 Mar;27(2):NP2443-57. doi: 
10.1177/1010539512466569. Epub 2012 Nov 27.

The relationship between economic status and mortality of South Koreans, as it 
relates to average life expectancy.

Kim JM(1), Jo YS(2), Park EC(3), Cho WH(3), Choi J(4), Chang HS(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Graduate School, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea 
Institute of Health Services Research, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea National 
Health Insurance Corporation Ilsan Hospital, Goyang-si, Korea.
(2)National Health Insurance Corporation, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Institute of Health Services Research, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea 
Department of Preventive Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea.
(4)Division of Business Administration, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.
(5)Institute of Health Services Research, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea 
Department of Preventive Medicine, Yonsei University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea mann@yuhs.ac.

This study investigates the relationship between economic status and mortality 
of Korean men and women who were under and over the average national life 
expectancy using Cox's proportional hazard model to adjust for health status, 
past medical history, and age. The study subjects come from local applicants of 
Korean National Health Insurance who had a health examination in 2005. They were 
enrolled into a follow-up investigation from 2005 to 2011. In individuals 
younger than the average life expectancy, the mortality of the lowest economic 
status was 2.48 times higher in men and 2.02 times higher in women than that in 
the highest economic status. Economic status-mortality association in males 
older than the average life expectancy was attenuated but not eliminated. 
However, there is no significant relationship between economic status and 
mortality for females above the average life expectancy.

© 2012 APJPH.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539512466569
PMID: 23188880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. PLoS One. 2012;7(11):e49943. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049943. Epub 2012
Nov  26.

Novel functions of the phosphatase SHP2 in the DNA replication and damage 
checkpoints.

Tsang YH(1), Han X, Man WY, Lee N, Poon RY.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science and Center for Cancer Research, Hong Kong University 
of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong.

Replication stress- and DNA damage-induced cell cycle checkpoints are critical 
for maintaining genome stability. To identify protein phosphatases involved in 
the activation and maintenance of the checkpoints, we have carried out RNA 
interference-based screens with a human phosphatome shRNA library. Several 
phosphatases, including SHP2 (also called PTPN11) were found to be required for 
cell survival upon hydroxyurea-induced replicative stress in HeLa cells. More 
detailed studies revealed that SHP2 was also important for the maintenance of 
the checkpoint after DNA damage induced by cisplatin or ionizing radiation in 
HeLa cells. Furthermore, SHP2 was activated after replicative stress and DNA 
damage. Although depletion of SHP2 resulted in a delay in cyclin E accumulation 
and an extension of G(1) phase, these cell cycle impairments were not 
responsible for the increase in apoptosis after DNA damage. Depletion of SHP2 
impaired CHK1 activation, checkpoint-mediated cell cycle arrest, and DNA repair. 
These effects could be rescued with a shRNA-resistant SHP2. These results 
underscore the importance of protein phosphatases in checkpoint control and 
revealed a novel link between SHP2 and cell cycle checkpoints.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0049943
PMCID: PMC3506573
PMID: 23189174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


737. Med Confl Surviv. 2012 Jul-Sep;28(3):199-218. doi:
10.1080/13623699.2012.699659.

Terrorism, civil war, one-sided violence and global burden of disease.

Kerridge BT(1), Khan MR, Sapkota A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University of Maryland, College Park, MD, USA. bkerridg@umd.edu

Armed conflict and related violence, including terrorism and one-sided violence, 
has profound effects on people's health and lives. The purpose of this study was 
to determine the relationship between deaths due to terrorism, civil war and 
one-sided violence from 1994-2000 and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
occurring in 2002 attributable to all causes and specific communicable and 
noncommunicable diseases. Deaths resulting from terrorism, war and one-sided 
violence were positively associated with all cause as well as a number of 
communicable and noncommunicable disease-specific DALYs across the majority of 
sex and age subgroups of the populace, controlling for an array of economic 
factors empirically shown to affect public health. Overall, a 1.0% increase in 
deaths due to terrorism, civil war and one-sided violence from 1994-2000 was 
associated with a 0.16% increase in DALYs lost to all causes in 2002 in the 
total world population. There was little variation in the magnitude of these 
associations between males and females and between communicable and 
noncommunicable diseases. The results of the present study can begin to guide 
post-conflict recovery by focusing on interventions targeting both 
noncommunicable as well as communicable diseases, thereby highlighting the full 
health costs of war and ultimately providing a strong rationale for promoting 
peace.

DOI: 10.1080/13623699.2012.699659
PMID: 23189588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. ANZ J Surg. 2013 Sep;83(9):669-75. doi: 10.1111/ans.12009. Epub 2012 Nov 29.

Cost-effectiveness of lumbar artificial intervertebral disc replacement: driven 
by the choice of comparator.

Parkinson B(1), Goodall S, Thavaneswaran P.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation (CHERE), Faculty of 
Business, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. 
bonny.parkinson@chere.uts.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Lower back pain is a common and costly condition in Australia. This 
paper aims to conduct an economic evaluation of lumbar artificial intervertebral 
disc replacement (AIDR) compared with lumbar fusion for the treatment of 
patients suffering from significant axial back pain and/or radicular (nerve 
root) pain, secondary to disc degeneration or prolapse, who have failed 
conservative treatment.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness approach was used to compare costs and benefits of 
AIDR to five fusion approaches. Resource use was based on Medicare Benefits 
Schedule claims data and expert opinion. Effectiveness and re-operation rates 
were based on published randomized controlled trials. The key clinical outcomes 
considered were narcotic medication discontinuation, achievement of overall 
clinical success, achievement of Oswestry Disability Index success and 
quality-adjusted life-years gained.
RESULTS: AIDR was estimated to be cost-saving compared with fusion overall 
($1600/patient); however, anterior lumbar interbody fusion and posterolateral 
fusion were less costly by $2155 and $807, respectively. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness depends on the outcome considered and the comparator.
CONCLUSIONS: AIDR is potentially a cost-saving treatment for lumbar disc 
degeneration, although longer-term follow-up data are required to substantiate 
this claim. The incremental cost-effectiveness depends on the outcome considered 
and the comparator, and further research is required before any firm conclusions 
can be drawn.

© 2012 The Authors. ANZ Journal of Surgery © 2012 Royal Australasian College of 
Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ans.12009
PMID: 23190445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Iran J Public Health. 2012;41(9):18-24. Epub 2012 Sep 1.

Life expectancy at birth in rural areas based on corrected data of the Iranian 
vital horoscope.

Motlagh M(1), Safari R, Karami M, Khosravi A.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Pediatrics, Ahvaz Jundishapur University of Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, 
Iran.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy at birth as an alternative summary measure of 
mortality represents number of years which a newborn will be alive based on the 
current age specific death rates. As it summarizes death rates across all age 
range in a given population is the most common summary measure of mortality. The 
aim of this study was to correct death rates for underreport and estimate life 
expectancy at birth in rural population of Iran in 2008. In addition, this study 
aimed to assess the Vital Horoscope system's data quality.
METHODS: Data were obtained from all Health Houses in Iranian villages in 2008. 
In order to adjust over 5 years old death rates for underreport, we used Brass 
Growth Balance method. Since this method is not applicable to under 5 years old, 
we used child mortality rates projected based on the Iranian Demographic and 
Health survey 2000 to correct death rates.
RESULTS: Adjusted life expectancy at birth for males was 71.5 year and for 
females was 74.4 year. Completeness of the death data was 88% for males and 79% 
for females. Adjusted child (under 5) mortality rate by sex in males and females 
was 25.9 and 23.8 per 1000 live births respectively. Adult mortality for males 
was 167.2 and 98.3 for females per 1000.
CONCLUSION: Data based on Vital Horoscope system are a suitable source to 
estimate life expectancy and other mortality statistics. Also has an acceptable 
completeness on death registration. Further studies to investigate accuracy of 
data from the Vital Horoscope system are suggested.

PMCID: PMC3494210
PMID: 23193501


740. Transpl Int. 2013 Feb;26(2):138-44. doi: 10.1111/tri.12008. Epub 2012 Nov
29.

Model for end-stage liver disease-sodium and survival benefit in liver 
transplantation.

Vitale A(1), Bertacco A, Gambato M, D'Amico F, Morales RR, Frigo AC, Zanus G, 
Burra P, Angeli P, Cillo U.

Author information:
(1)Unità di Chirurgia Epatobiliare e Trapianto Epatico Azienda, Università di 
Padova, Padova, Italy. alessandro.vitale@unipd.it

There are currently no studies calculating the survival benefit of liver 
transplantation (LT) according to model for end-stage liver disease-sodium 
(MELD-Na) and based on the competing risk (CR) method. We enrolled consecutive 
adult patients with chronic end-stage liver disease entering the waiting list 
(WL) for primary LT (WL group = 337) and undergoing LT (LT group = 220) in the 
period 2006-2009. Two independent multivariable regressions (WL and LT models) 
were created to measure the prognostic power of MELD-Na with respect to MELD. 
For the WL model, both Cox and CR multivariable analyses were performed. 
Estimates were finally included in a Markov model to calculate 3-year survival 
benefit. WL Cox model: MELD-Na (P < 0.0001) and MELD (P < 0.0001) significantly 
predicted survival. WL CR model: MELD-Na (P = 0.0045) and MELD (P = 0.0109) 
significantly predicted survival. LT Cox model: MELD-Na (P = 0.7608) and MELD 
score (P = 0.9413) had not correlation with survival. Benefit model: MELD and 
MELD-Na had an overlapping significant impact on 3-year survival benefit; CR 
method determined a significant decrease in 3-year life expectancy (LE) 
estimations. MELD-Na and MELD scores similarly predicted 3-year LT survival 
benefit, but the gain in LE is significantly lower when a CR method is adopted.

© 2012 The Authors Transplant International © 2012 European Society for Organ 
Transplantation. Published by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tri.12008
PMID: 23194386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Clin Nephrol. 2013 Apr;79(4):269-76. doi: 10.5414/CN107746.

Kidney disease in elderly South Africans.

Okpechi IG(1), Ayodele OE, Rayner BL, Swanepoel CR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Cape Town, South Africa. 
Ikechi.Okpechi@uct.ac.za

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy is low in many African countries due to several 
factors including the ongoing HIV epidemic. However, the global increase in life 
expectancy has translated to more elderly patients living with chronic kidney 
disease (CKD). The patterns of kidney disease in the elderly have never been 
described from sub-Saharan Africa.
METHODS: This study was a retrospective study of 111 elderly patients (age ≥ 60 
years) who had a renal biopsy performed at the Groote Schuur Hospital in Cape 
Town between 1st January 2000 and 31st December 2009.
RESULTS: The mean age of patients at time of biopsy was 66.3 ± 5.7 years (males: 
66.4 ± 5.6; females: 66.3 ± 5.9 years). Primary glomerular diseases were seen in 
38.7%, secondary glomerular diseases in 36.0%, tubulointerstitial diseases in 
17.1% and diseases classified as miscellaneous in 8.1% of all patients. 
Nephrotic syndrome was the most common indication for the performance of a renal 
biopsy (48.6%). Membranous lomerulonephritis (MGN) was the most common type of 
disease observed (14.4%) and was significantly more frequent in males than in 
females (p = 0.029). Other common histological diagnoses included diabetes 
nephropathy (12.6%), chronic glomerulonephritis (5.4%), and lupus nephritis 
(4.5%). HIV associated nephropathy (HIVAN) was only seen in 1 patient (0.9%).
CONCLUSION: The patterns of renal disease currently seen in elderly South 
Africans closely resembles that reported from other countries but is at complete 
variance with the pattern reported in the general population of South Africa in 
which HIV plays a significant role.

DOI: 10.5414/CN107746
PMID: 23195833 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Rev Med Interne. 2013 Jan;34(1):32-8. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2012.05.005.
Epub  2012 Nov 26.

[Iron chelating therapy in adults: How and when ?].

[Article in French]

Ruivard M(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne, CHU Estaing, 1, place Lucie-Aubrac, 63003 
Clermont-Ferrand cedex 1, France. mruivard@chu-clermontferrand.fr

Iron overload can lead to tissue damage derived from free radical toxicity. 
Phlebotomy is the treatment of choice for treating iron overload. However, iron 
chelating therapy can be used if phlebotomies are impossible, mainly because of 
anemia. In thalassemia major, iron chelating therapy has dramatically improved 
life expectancy; it is also used in sickle cell disease and myelodysplastic 
syndromes. Desferioxamine is the gold standard of iron chelation, but parenteral 
administration and the burden of a daily infusion pump hinder optimal 
compliance. Deferiprone is orally active but should be administered three times 
a day. It has the advantage of removing toxic iron from myocardium, but 
agranulocytosis (1 %) can limit its use. Deferasirox is orally active in a 
single daily dose, is well tolerated but its cardiac effect is limited. Iron 
chelating therapy can be considered if serum ferritin is above 1000μg/L and if 
liver iron concentration assessing by MRI exceeds 80μmol/g. MRI is a very 
important mean to monitor cardiac iron load. If the relaxing parameter T2* is 
lower than 20ms, a cardiac effective iron chelator agent or an association with 
deferoxamine should be used. Benefit/risk ratio should be closely evaluated, 
mainly in myelodysplastic syndromes.

Copyright © 2012 Société nationale française de médecine interne (SNFMI). 
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2012.05.005
PMID: 23195912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Int J Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Feb;51(2):91-5. doi: 10.5414/CP201592.

Pharmaceutical care for patients with acute myocardial infarction in Hungary.

Argay M(1), Koós I, Takács I, Dormaeva I, Meskó A, Zelkó R, Hankó B.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis University, School of PhD Studies, Budapest, Hungary.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain informationon the main causatives of acute 
myocardialinfarction (AMI), the background needs to be analyzed. Our aim was to 
identify those pharmaceutical aspects of this polymorbidity where the pharmacist 
can contribute. Earlier and recent European and Hungarian studies show similar 
results: cardiovascular (CV) death is still the leading cause of mortality. The 
quality of life is much lower and life expectancy is shorter in the investigated 
Borsod-Abaúj Zemplén county population compared to the whole of the country. 
After pharmaceutical care has been defined, its role should be established.
METHODS: A retrospective hospital-based survey was carried out. Medical records 
of 659 patients treated for myocardial infarction at the 1st Department of 
Internal Medicine-Cardiology of Borsod-Abaúj-Zemplén County Hospital and 
University Hospital were analyzed. Data were obtained using the MedWorkS 
integrated hospital information system and were selected based on Social 
Security Number (TAJ) and The International Statistical Classification of 
Diseases and Related Health Problems (ICD). We focused on the therapy and 
medication of patients.
RESULTS: The obtained results are consistent with those of previous Hungarian 
studies (OLEF 2000) and statistical analyses. Based on the present study we 
suggest that pharmacists should work more closely with the medical staff. In 
studying the medication, we concentrated on antiplatelet therapy and studied the 
use of aspirin alone compared to aspirin plus clopidogrel. Of the 659 patients 
only 172 received aspirin as a preventive agent. We noticed that during this 
study only a low number of patients received ASA treatment and it could be seen 
in the outcome of the illness. We also found that dual antiplatelet therapy did 
not decrease the incidence of reinfarction in patients with AMI.
DISCUSSION: In this study the theory (guidelines, other studies) and the 
clinical practice of the therapy and medication of AMI were compared. ASA 
therapy did not produce any significant effect. Our results are similar to those 
studies which concluded that ASA did not decrease the risk of cardiovascular 
events.
CONCLUSION: Most patients with AMI suffer from polymorbidity. Since the 
occurrence of underlying chronic diseases is high, not only AMI must be treated, 
but therapy and medication must be complex. Complex therapeutic management is 
the key to the success of pharmaceutical care in the community pharmacy 
following hospital treatment.

DOI: 10.5414/CP201592
PMID: 23195914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Curr Opin Support Palliat Care. 2013 Mar;7(1):8-13. doi: 
10.1097/SPC.0b013e32835c0707.

End-of-life care in adults with congenital heart disease: now is the time to 
act.

Bowater SE(1), Speakman JK, Thorne SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Queen Elizabeth Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, 
Birmingham, UK. sarah.bowater@uhb.nhs.uk

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: There are increasing numbers of adults with congenital heart 
disease (CHD) and these patients remain at long-term risk of complications and 
premature death. This review focuses on the changing picture of adult CHD with 
more complex patients surviving, the challenges of balancing life-prolonging 
intervention, the barriers to discussing the end-of-life (EOL) issues and draws 
on the experience of other specialities in managing young patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: The prevalence of adults with the most severe forms of CHD has 
increased, especially those with a Fontan circulation. The eventual decline is 
inevitable with limited treatment options. There should be a parallel palliative 
care approach in patients who are being considered for high-risk, 
life-prolonging interventions. Oncologists caring for the young patients with 
cancer and cystic fibrosis specialists have demonstrated the unique needs of 
young patients with chronic diseases that may be applicable to adult CHD 
patients and help with their EOL planning.
SUMMARY: These patients require an early and proactive approach to EOL 
discussions, and the unique needs of young patients should be recognized. 
Further research is needed to develop local and national guidelines for the 
palliative care approach in these patients.

DOI: 10.1097/SPC.0b013e32835c0707
PMID: 23196380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2012 Dec;13(12):827-36. doi: 10.1714/1188.13166.

[Palliative care in heart failure].

[Article in Italian]

Gavazzi A(1), Svanoni F, De Maria R.

Author information:
(1)U.S.C. di Cardiologia, Dipartimento Cardiovascolare, Ospedali Riuniti 
Bergamo. agavazzi@ospedaliriuniti.bergamo.it

Comment in
    G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2013 Oct;14(10):647-9.

The natural history of heart failure (HF) is characterized by a progressive 
decline in functional capacity, punctuated by acute heart destabilization 
episodes which contribute to a spiraling worsening course. Advanced HF affects 
one in four patients who are referred to the hospital for the syndrome and has 
an estimated yearly incidence of 12 000 new cases in Italy. Life expectancy is 
very limited, and in general less than 50% of advanced HF patients are alive at 
1-2 years. Advanced HF patients show a high, not modifiable mortality, severe 
symptoms and impaired quality of life. Treatment goals should focus on the 
improvement of symptoms and quality of life, the aims of palliative care. 
Palliative consultations during hospital admissions reduce the number of 
interventions and procedures in the last stages of life, the length of stay in 
the intensive care unit and general ward. HF patients who receive home 
palliative care are more likely to die at home, in accordance with their 
expressed will. The research project RF-MAR-2007-67955 aims to analyze, through 
a prospective observational registry, the palliative care needs of HF patients 
in Italy, to answer the gaps in knowledge on symptom changes during the terminal 
stages of the disease, on the quality of communication between healthcare 
professionals, patients and their families and caregivers' needs.

DOI: 10.1714/1188.13166
PMID: 23196685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Ann Rheum Dis. 2013 Dec;72(12):1927-33. doi:
10.1136/annrheumdis-2012-202062.  Epub 2012 Nov 29.

Addition of infliximab compared with addition of sulfasalazine and 
hydroxychloroquine to methotrexate in early rheumatoid arthritis: 2-year 
quality-of-life results of the randomised, controlled, SWEFOT trial.

Karlsson JA(1), Neovius M, Nilsson JÅ, Petersson IF, Bratt J, van Vollenhoven 
RF, Ernestam S, Geborek P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Section of Rheumatology, Lund 
University, , Lund, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To compare EuroQol 5-Dimensions (EQ-5D) utility and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) in patients with early, methotrexate (MTX) refractory 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA), randomised to addition of infliximab (IFX) or 
sulfasalazine and hydroxychloroquine (SSZ+HCQ).
METHODS: RA-patients with symptoms <1 year were enrolled between 2002 and 2005 
at 15 Swedish centres. After 3-4 months of MTX monotherapy, patients with a 
remaining DAS28>3.2 were randomised to addition of IFX or SSZ+HCQ and followed 
for 21 months. EQ-5D profiles were collected every 3 months. Between-group 
comparisons of utility change and accumulated QALYs were performed, using last 
observation carried forward (LOCF) following protocol breach. Missing data were 
imputed by linear interpolation or LOCF. Sensitivity analyses applying baseline 
observation carried forward (BOCF) or restricted to completers were conducted.
RESULTS: Of 487 patients initially enrolled, 128 and 130 were randomised to IFX 
or SSZ+HCQ, respectively. Mean utility in the IFX and SSZ+HCQ groups increased 
from 0.52 (SD 0.27) and 0.55 (SD 0.27) at randomisation to 0.66 (SD 0.25) and 
0.63 (SD 0.27) at 21 months (adjusted mean difference favouring IFX 0.04; 95% CI 
-0.01, 0.09; p=0.15). Average accumulated QALYs were 1.10 (SD 0.37) and 1.07 (SD 
0.42) in the IFX and SSZ+HCQ groups, respectively (adjusted mean difference 
favouring IFX 0.07; 95%CI -0.01, 0.14; p=0.07). BOCF analysis showed similar 
results, while differences were reversed, though remained statistically 
non-significant among completers. Dropout rates in the IFX/SSZ+HCQ groups were 
30%/43% (p=0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Comparing addition of IFX or SSZ+HCQ to MTX in active early RA, no 
statistically significant differences in utility or QALY gain could be detected 
over 21 months.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Registered in WHO database at the Karolinska University 
Hospital, number CT20080004.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2012-202062
PMID: 23196701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Circ J. 2013;77(3):717-24. doi: 10.1253/circj.cj-11-1300. Epub 2012 Nov 29.

Microsimulation for clinical decision-making in individual patients with 
established coronary artery disease: a concept.

Battes L(1), Kardys I, Barendse R, Steyerberg EW, Amiri M, Eijkemans MJ, Deckers 
JW, Postmus D, Takkenberg JJ, Redekop K, Boersma E.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Department of Cardiology, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. l.battes@erasmusmc.nl

BACKGROUND: In cardiovascular disease, numerous evidence-based prognostic models 
have been created, usually based on regression analyses of isolated patient 
datasets. They tend to focus on one outcome event, based on just one baseline 
evaluation of the patient, and fail to take the disease process in its dynamic 
nature into account. We present so-called microsimulation as an attractive 
alternative for clinical decision-making in individual patients. We aim to 
further familiarize clinicians with the concept of microsimulation and to inform 
them about the modeling process.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We describe the modeling process, advantages and 
disadvantages of microsimulation. We illustrate the concept using a hypothetical 
60-year-old patient, with several cardiac risk factors, who is hospitalized for 
myocardial infarction. By using microsimulation, we calculate this patient's 
probability of death. In our example, this particular patient's estimated life 
expectancy turns out to be 8.9 years. While calculating this life expectancy, we 
were able to account for multiple outcome events and changing patient 
characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: Microsimulation takes into account the dynamic nature of coronary 
artery disease by estimating most likely outcomes regarding a broad range of 
clinical events. Moreover, microsimulation can be used to evaluate treatment 
effects by estimating the event-free life expectancy with and without treatment. 
Hence, microsimulation has several advantages compared to modeling techniques 
such as regression. 

DOI: 10.1253/circj.cj-11-1300
PMID: 23196719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Aktuelle Urol. 2012 Dec;43(6):399-402. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1330002. Epub
2012  Nov 29.

[Nephron-sparing surgery 2012].

[Article in German]

Janssen M(1), Treiyer EA, Saar M, Ohlmann CH, Kamradt J, Junker K, Stöckle M, 
Siemer S.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, Universitätsklinikum des Saarlandes, 
Homburg/Saar, Germany.

Nephron-sparing surgery is considered to be the standard surgery for small renal 
masses. There is a large socioeconomic and oncological relevance in such a 
decision, especially since tumour incidence as well as average life expectancy 
increases, also triggered by better diagnostic quality. The present review 
highlights the current state of nephron sparing-surgery, evaluates different 
surgical approaches and gives perspectives on the future developments and 
scientific investigations required. In conclusion, nephron-sparing surgery has 
been well studied and different approaches have shown high safety profiles with 
oncological results comparable to those of radical nephrectomy. Nephron -sparing 
surgery provides decisive advantages in long-term survival and patient 
morbidity, especially concerning chronic renal failure rates. Therefore, 
whenever feasible, a renal mass should be considered for nephron-sparing 
surgery.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1330002
PMID: 23196778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Aktuelle Urol. 2012 Dec;43(6):409-11. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1323744. Epub 2012
Nov  29.

[Osteosarcoma of the prostate after radiotherapy].

[Article in German]

Stangelberger A(1), Riedl CR, Susani M.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Urologie, Landesklinikum Baden, Baden, Österreich. 
anton.stangelberger@baden.lknoe.at

Osteosarcoma of the prostate is a rare finding. These tumours usually occur 
years after radiotherapy for prostate cancer. We report the case of a 
74-year-old man with prostate cancer who had been treated with radiotherapy and 
androgen deprivation therapy. The man presented with urinary retention and his 
prostate was transurethrally resected. The histopathological investigation 
showed formations of a poorly differentiated osteosarcoma in the prostate. 
Because of serious comorbidities we decided to withhold chemotherapy considering 
its potential side effects. The man died a few months after the diagnosis of 
osteosarcoma in the prostate with the disease in a metastatic stage. In 
conclusion, osteosarcoma of the prostate is a rarely reported consequence of 
radiotherapy in patients with prostate cancer and is characterised by poor life 
expectancy.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1323744
PMID: 23196780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Arch Osteoporos. 2012;7:209-18. doi: 10.1007/s11657-012-0099-7.

Burden of postmenopausal osteoporosis in Germany: estimations from a disease 
model.

Gauthier A(1), Kanis JA, Jiang Y, Dreinhöfer K, Martin M, Compston J, Borgström 
F, Cooper C, McCloskey E.

Author information:
(1)Amaris, London, UK. agauthier@amaris.com

This article describes the adaptation of a model assessing the incidence of 
osteoporotic fractures and prevalence of postmenopausal osteoporosis (PMO) in 
Germany.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this paper is to estimate the epidemiological burden of 
PMO in Germany from 2010 to 2020.
METHODS: For each year of the study, the 'incident cohort' (women experiencing a 
first osteoporotic fracture) was identified and run through a Markov model using 
1-year cycles until 2020. Health states were based on the number of fractures 
(1, 2 or ≥3) and deaths. Although the fracture site was not explicitly accounted 
for in the model structure, the site (hip, vertebral, non-hip non-vertebral) was 
tracked for each health state. Transition probabilities reflected the 
site-specific risk of death and of subsequent fractures. Model inputs included 
population size and life tables from 1970 to 2020, incidence of fracture and BMD 
by age in the general population (mean and standard deviation).
RESULTS: In 2010, the number of osteoporotic fractures was estimated at 349,560 
in women aged 50 years or more, including 80,177 hip and 48,550 vertebral 
fractures. By 2020, the population is expected to grow by 13.1 %. As a result, 
the number of fractures is predicted to increase by 15.2 %. The improvement in 
life expectancy is predicted to lead to a relatively smaller increase in the 
number of deaths attributable to fractures (+12.8 %), but also to an increase in 
the prevalence of women with multiple prior fractures (+25.5 %).
CONCLUSION: The PMO disease model, first developed for Sweden, was adapted to 
Germany. Due to the ageing of the population, the number of osteoporotic 
fractures is expected to increase markedly by +15.2 % by 2020.

DOI: 10.1007/s11657-012-0099-7
PMID: 23196864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2012 Dec 5;104(23):1785-95. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djs433.
Epub  2012 Nov 28.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of screening for KRAS and BRAF mutations in 
metastatic colorectal cancer.

Behl AS(1), Goddard KA, Flottemesch TJ, Veenstra D, Meenan RT, Lin JS, Maciosek 
MV.

Author information:
(1)HealthPartners Research Foundation, 8170 33rd Ave. S., Mail Stop 21111R, 
Bloomington, MN 55425, USA. Ajay.S.Behl@HealthPartners.com

Comment in
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2013 Feb;10(2):66.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2014 Feb;106(2):djt370.

BACKGROUND: In 2009, the American Society of Clinical Oncology recommended that 
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC) who are candidates for 
anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) therapy have their tumors tested 
for KRAS mutations because tumors with such mutations do not respond to 
anti-EGFR therapy. Limiting anti-EGFR therapy to those without KRAS mutations 
will reserve treatment for those likely to benefit while avoiding unnecessary 
costs and harm to those who would not. Similarly, tumors with BRAF genetic 
mutations may not respond to anti-EGFR therapy, though this is less clear. 
Economic analyses of mutation testing have not fully explored the roles of 
alternative therapies and resection of metastases.
METHODS: This paper is based on a decision analytic framework that forms the 
basis of a cost-effectiveness analysis of screening for KRAS and BRAF mutations 
in mCRC in the context of treatment with cetuximab. A cohort of 50 000 patients 
with mCRC is simulated 10 000 times, with attributes randomly assigned on the 
basis of distributions from randomized controlled trials.
RESULTS: Screening for both KRAS and BRAF mutations compared with the base 
strategy (of no anti-EGFR therapy) increases expected overall survival by 0.034 
years at a cost of $22 033, yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
approximately $650 000 per additional year of life. Compared with anti-EGFR 
therapy without screening, adding KRAS testing saves approximately $7500 per 
patient; adding BRAF testing saves another $1023, with little reduction in 
expected survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening for KRAS and BFAF mutation improves the 
cost-effectiveness of anti-EGFR therapy, but the incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio remains above the generally accepted threshold for acceptable cost 
effectiveness ratio of $100 000/quality adjusted life year.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djs433
PMCID: PMC3514165
PMID: 23197490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2012 Dec 5;104(23):1779-80. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djs476.
Epub  2012 Nov 28.

Proof or principle? On economic modeling to guide genomic testing in metastatic 
colorectal cancer.

Carlson JJ, Ramsey SD.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djs476
PMID: 23197491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Glob Health. 2011 Dec;1(2):224-38.

Communicable disease control in China: From Mao to now.

Hipgrave D(1).

Author information:
(1)Formerly UNICEF China Chief of Health, Nutrition, and Water and Environmental 
Sanitation.

China's progress on communicable disease control (CDC) in the 30 years after 
establishment of the People's Republic in 1949 is widely regarded as remarkable. 
Life expectancy soared by around 30 years, infant mortality plummeted and 
smallpox, sexually transmitted diseases and many other infections were either 
eliminated or decreased massively in incidence, largely as a result of CDC. By 
the mid-1970s, China was already undergoing the epidemiologic transition, years 
ahead of other nations of similar economic status. These early successes can be 
attributed to population mobilization, mass campaigns and a focus on sanitation, 
hygiene, clean water and clean delivery, and occurred despite political 
instability and slow economic progress. The 10-year Cultural Revolution from 
1966 brought many hardships, but also clinical care and continuing public health 
programs to the masses through community-funded medical schemes and the 
establishment of community-based health workers. These people-focused approaches 
broke down with China's market reforms from 1980. Village doctors turned to 
private practice as community funding ceased, and the attention paid to rural 
public health declined. CDC relied on vertical programs, some of them successful 
(such as elimination of lymphatic filariasis and child immunisation), but others 
(such as control of schistosomiasis and tuberculosis) demonstrating only 
intermittent progress due to failed strategies or reliance on support by the 
poorest governments and health workers, who could not or would not collaborate. 
In addition, China's laissez-faire approach to public health placed it at great 
risk, as evidenced by the outbreak in 2003 of the Severe Acute Respiratory 
Syndrome. Since then, major changes to disease reporting, the priority given to 
CDC including through major new domestic resources and reform of China's health 
system offer encouragement for CDC. While decentralized funding and varying 
quality diagnosis, reporting and treatment of infectious diseases remain major 
challenges, national priority on CDC in China is high.

PMCID: PMC3484775
PMID: 23198121


754. Eur Heart J. 2012 Oct;33(19):2372-3.

How cost-effective are drugs and devices used in cardiology?

Caro JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

PMID: 23198294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. J Med Liban. 2012 Jul-Sep;60(3):153-8.

Guidelines for fragility fractures in Lebanon.

Maalouf G(1), Bachour F, Issa M, Yazbeck P, Maalouf N, Daher C, Yaghi Y, Eid R.

Author information:
(1)Musculoskeletal Dpt., BUMC (Bellevue University Medical Center), 
Mansourieh-Lebanon. gmaalouf@bmchcs.com

With the increasing life expectancy, osteoporosis is becoming a major worldwide 
health problem. Osteoporotic fragility fractures affect the quality of life and 
are associated with premature mortality. The magnitude of the disease may become 
larger in developing countries, particularly in the Middle East where the 
prevalence of low bone mass is higher than in Western countries. Besides two 
small studies, there is no serious fragility fracture registry in Lebanon. The 
British Orthopedic Association published guidelines on the care of fragility 
fractures in 2007. Inspired by this effort, and taking into consideration the 
Lebanese socio-medico-economical particularities, we will detail the 
multidisciplinary management of a fragility fracture, as listed in the 
international standards, from its presentation to the Emergency Department, 
through its peri-operative care, and we will pay particular attention to the 
different aspects of secondary prevention. We hope that this paper will 
contribute to the upgrading of care of fragility fractures in Lebanon in order 
to meet the international standards of care, thus setting the example to other 
countries and healthcare systems in the Middle East region.

PMID: 23198456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. EPMA J. 2011 Mar;2(1):49-57. doi: 10.1007/s13167-011-0067-0. Epub 2011 Mar
24.

A Japanese health success story: trends in cardiovascular diseases, their risk 
factors, and the contribution of public health and personalized approaches.

Iso H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Social and Environmental Medicine, Osaka University Graduate 
School of Medicine, 2-2 Yamadagaoka, Suita-shi, Osaka 565-0871 Japan.

There has been a substantial decline in mortality from stroke and ischemic heart 
disease (IHD) in Japan between the 1960s and 2000s, which contributed to placing 
Japanese at the top of world's life expectancy rankings. That mortality decline 
was attributable to reductions of blood pressure and smoking, in spite of 
increases in dyslipidemia and diabetes mellitus. The combination of public 
health and personalized treatment activities to enhance sodium reduction, 
balanced diets, smoking prevention/cessation as well as hypertension detection 
and treatment have contributed to the reduction of cardiovascular diseases, 
demonstrated by a community-based stroke prevention program. The health success 
story, however, contains an underlying concern about future health threats, the 
plateaued IHD mortality decline and increased IHD incidence among urban 
middle-aged men, probably due to increased dyslipidemia and diabetes. The IHD 
incidence and mortality trends need to be monitored because of a potential 
future problem for predictive, preventive and personalized medicine.

DOI: 10.1007/s13167-011-0067-0
PMCID: PMC3405374
PMID: 23199126


757. Popul Stud (Camb). 2013 Jul;67(2):157-70. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2012.740500.
 Epub 2012 Dec 3.

A new method of projecting populations based on trends in life expectancy and 
survival.

Mayhew L(1), Smith D.

Author information:
(1)Cass Business School, Moorgate, London EC1Y 8TZ, UK. lesmayhew@googlemail.com

There is increasing concern about the lack of accuracy in population projections 
at national levels. A common problem has been the systematic underestimation of 
improvements in mortality, especially at older ages, resulting in projections 
that are too low. In this paper, we present a method that is based on projecting 
survivorship rather than mortality, which uses the same data but differs 
technically. In particular, rather than extrapolating trends in mortality, we 
use trends in life expectancy to establish a robust statistical relation between 
changes in life expectancy and survivorship using period life tables. We test 
the approach on data for England and Wales for the population aged 50 and over, 
and show that it gives more accurate projections than official projections using 
the same base data. Using the model to project the population aged 50 and over 
to 2020, our method suggests nearly 0.6 million more people in this age group 
than official projections.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2012.740500
PMID: 23199204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Health Technol Assess. 2012 Nov;16(47):1-197. doi: 10.3310/hta16470.

Types of urethral catheter for reducing symptomatic urinary tract infections in 
hospitalised adults requiring short-term catheterisation: multicentre randomised 
controlled trial and economic evaluation of antimicrobial- and 
antiseptic-impregnated urethral catheters (the CATHETER trial).

Pickard R(1), Lam T, Maclennan G, Starr K, Kilonzo M, McPherson G, Gillies K, 
McDonald A, Walton K, Buckley B, Glazener C, Boachie C, Burr J, Norrie J, Vale 
L, Grant A, N'dow J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cellular Medicine, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2014 Jan;17(1):28-9.

BACKGROUND: Catheter-associated urinary tract infection (CAUTI) is a major 
preventable cause of harm for patients in hospital and incurs significant costs 
for health-care providers such as the UK NHS. Many preventative strategies and 
measures have been introduced to minimise CAUTI risk, including the use of 
antimicrobial catheters. However, there is considerable uncertainty regarding 
their usefulness in terms of reducing symptomatic CAUTI, and whether or not they 
are cost-effective.
OBJECTIVES: Do antimicrobial catheters reduce the rate of symptomatic urinary 
tract infection (UTI) during short-term hospital use and is their use 
cost-effective for the UK NHS?
DESIGN: A pragmatic multicentre UK randomised controlled trial comparing three 
catheters as they would be used in the UK NHS: antimicrobial-impregnated 
(nitrofurazone) and antiseptic-coated (silver alloy) catheters with the standard 
polytetrafluoroethylene (PTFE)-coated catheters. Economic evaluation used a 
decision model populated with data from the trial. Sensitivity analysis was used 
to explore uncertainty.
SETTING: Relevant clinical departments in 24 NHS hospitals throughout the UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults requiring temporary urethral catheterisation for a period 
of between 1 and 14 days as part of their care, predominantly as a result of 
elective surgery.
INTERVENTIONS: Eligible participants were randomised 1 : 1 : 1 to one of three 
types of urethral catheter in order to make the following pragmatic comparisons: 
nitrofurazone-impregnated silicone catheter compared with standard PTFE-coated 
latex catheter; and silver alloy-coated hydrogel latex catheter compared with 
standard PTFE-coated latex catheter.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome for clinical effectiveness was the 
incidence of UTI at any time up to 6 weeks post randomisation. This was defined 
as any symptom reported during catheterisation, up to 3 days or 1 or 2 weeks 
post catheter removal or 6 weeks post randomisation combined with a prescription 
of antibiotics, at any of these times, for presumed symptomatic UTI. The primary 
economic outcome was incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). 
Health-care costs were estimated from NHS sources with QALYs calculated from 
participant completion of the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D).
RESULTS: Outcome analyses encompassed 6394 (90%) of 7102 participants 
randomised. The rate of symptomatic UTI within 6 weeks of randomisation was 
10.6% in the nitrofurazone group (n = 2153; -2.1% absolute risk difference), 
12.5% in the silver alloy group (n = 2097; -0.1% absolute risk difference) and 
12.6% in the PTFE group (n = 2144). The effect size {odds ratio (OR) [97.5% 
confidence interval (CI)]} was 0.82 (97.5% CI 0.66 to 1.01) for nitrofurazone (p 
= 0.037) and 0.99 (97.5% CI 0.81 to 1.22) for silver alloy (p = 0.92) catheters. 
The nitrofurazone catheters were more likely to cause discomfort during use and 
on removal. The primary economic analysis suggested that 
nitrofurazone-impregnated catheters would be, on average, the least costly (> £7 
less than PTFE) and most effective option at current NHS prices. There was a 73% 
chance that nitrofurazone would be cost saving and an 84% chance that the 
incremental cost per QALY would be < £30,000. At the trial price (£6.46), silver 
alloy catheters were very unlikely to be cost-effective. These results were 
unchanged in sensitivity analyses, although when the length of stay cost was 
excluded the incremental cost per QALY for nitrofurazone against PTFE was 
£28,602.
CONCLUSIONS: The trial estimate of clinical effectiveness for 
nitrofurazone-impregnated catheters was less than the pre-specified minimum 
absolute risk difference that we considered important (-3.3%), and the 
surrounding CI included zero, indicating that any reduction in 
catheter-associated UTI was uncertain. Economic analysis, although associated 
with uncertainty, suggested that nitrofurazone-impregnated catheters may be 
cost-effective for the NHS. The trial ruled out the possibility that silver 
alloy-coated catheters might reach the pre-set degree of clinical effectiveness 
and that their use was unlikely to be cost-effective. These findings should be 
considered by patients, clinicians and health-care policy-makers to determine 
whether or not a change in practice is worthwhile. Future research should be 
aimed at determining the minimum clinically important difference in terms of 
CAUTI prevention in comparative trials, and to identify reliable methods which 
can detect the impact of the intervention on quality of life and other drivers 
of cost, when the intervention is a subsidiary part of overall treatment plans.

DOI: 10.3310/hta16470
PMID: 23199586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Med Clin (Barc). 2013 Feb 2;140(3):134.e1-134.e12. doi: 
10.1016/j.medcli.2012.10.003. Epub 2012 Nov 28.

[Treatment of type 2 diabetes in the elderly].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez Huelgas R(1), Díez-Espino J, Formiga F, Lafita Tejedor J, Rodríguez Mañas 
L, González-Sarmiento E, Menéndez E, Sangrós J; en nombre del Grupo de Trabajo 
para el Documento de Consenso sobre el tratamiento de la diabetes tipo 2 en el 
anciano.

Collaborators: Gómez-Huelgas R, Díez-Espino J, Pérez FF, Tejedor JL, Mañas LR, 
González-Sarmiento E, Menéndez E, Sangrós J, Álvarez-Guisasola F, Bertomeu V, 
Gómez-Martínez JC, Juliá VL, López de la Torre M, Martínez-Castelao A, Bravo JJ, 
Miranda C.

Author information:
(1)Sociedad Española de Medicina Interna (SEMI). ricardogomezhuelgas@hotmail.com

Comment in
    Med Clin (Barc). 2014 Jan 21;142(2):90.
    Med Clin (Barc). 2014 Jan 21;142(2):89-90.

Treatment of type 2 diabetes in the elderly represents a major challenge both in 
terms of clinical management and public health. Aging is causing a marked 
increase in the pandemic of diabetes in elderly people. However, scientific 
evidence to support the most appropriate treatment for diabetes in the elderly 
is scarce. Given the heterogeneity of the elderly population, which includes 
subjects with very different functional and cognitive capacities, 
co-morbidities, and life expectancy, it is critical to make a comprehensive 
assessment from a biopsychosocial perspective, to address the vascular risk 
factors integrally, and to establish individually tailored targets for glycemic 
control. In frail elderly or individuals with a short life expectancy, it may be 
reasonable to maintain HbA1c between 7.6%-8.5%. The therapeutic strategy for 
elderly patients with type 2 diabetes should be individualized and agreed with 
the patient and their caregivers, according to the objective. Improving quality 
of life, assuring patient safety and avoiding the adverse effects of 
antidiabetic treatment should be prioritized. Given the increased susceptibility 
of the elderly to severe hypoglycemia and its consequences, antidiabetic 
therapies that minimize the risk of hypoglycemic events should be selected.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2012.10.003
PMID: 23199835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Photodiagnosis Photodyn Ther. 2012 Dec;9(4):287-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.pdpdt.2012.03.005. Epub 2012 Aug 30.

Safety and long term efficacy of porfimer sodium photodynamic therapy in locally 
advanced biliary tract carcinoma.

