disease, liver transplantation, and liver-related death by 45-51 % and increase 
life expectancy by 2.3-4.3 years. Although the addition of BOC increased 
treatment costs by €13,300-€19,700, the reduction of disease burden resulted in 
a decrease of €5,400-€9,000 in discounted health state costs and an increase of 
0.68-1.23 in discounted QALYs per patient. The incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios of the boceprevir-based regimens compared with PR among previously 
untreated and previously treated patients were €11,600/QALY and €8,700/QALY, 
respectively. The results were most sensitive to variations in sustained 
virologic response rates, discount rates and age at treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: Adding boceprevir to PR was projected to reduce the number of liver 
complications and liver-related deaths, and to be cost effective in treating 
both previously untreated and treated patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-012-0007-8
PMID: 23355388 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. J Med Econ. 2013;16(4):566-74. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.770747. Epub 2013
Feb  6.

Cost effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve replacement compared to medical 
management in inoperable patients with severe aortic stenosis: Canadian analysis 
based on the PARTNER Trial Cohort B findings.

Hancock-Howard RL(1), Feindel CM, Rodes-Cabau J, Webb JG, Thompson AK, Banz K.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Burlington, Ontario, Canada. rebeccalhancock@hotmail.com

Comment in
    J Med Econ. 2013;16(4):575-9.

OBJECTIVE: The only effective treatment for severe aortic stenosis (AS) is valve 
replacement. However, many patients with co-existing conditions are ineligible 
for surgical valve replacement, historically leaving medical management (MM) as 
the only option which has a poor prognosis. Transcatheter Aortic Valve 
Replacement (TAVR) is a less invasive replacement method. The objective was to 
estimate cost-effectiveness of TAVR via transfemoral access vs MM in surgically 
inoperable patients with severe AS from the Canadian public healthcare system 
perspective.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis of TAVR vs MM was conducted using a 
deterministic decision analytic model over a 3-year time horizon. The PARTNER 
randomized controlled trial results were used to estimate survival, utilities, 
and some resource utilization. Costs included the valve replacement procedure, 
complications, hospitalization, outpatient visits/tests, and home/nursing care. 
Resources were valued (2009 Canadian dollars) using costs from the Ontario Case 
Costing Initiative (OCCI), Ontario Ministry of Health and Long-Term Care and 
Ontario Drug Benefits Formulary, or were estimated using relative costs from a 
French economic evaluation or clinical experts. Costs and outcomes were 
discounted 5% annually. The effect of uncertainty in model parameters was 
explored in deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was $32,170 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for TAVR vs MM. When the time horizon 
was shortened to 24 and 12 months, the ICER increased to $52,848 and $157,429, 
respectively. All other sensitivity analysis returned an ICER of less than 
$50,000/QALY gained.
LIMITATIONS: A limitation was lack of availability of Canadian-specific resource 
and cost data for all resources, leaving one to rely on clinical experts and 
data from France to inform certain parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results of this analysis, it can be concluded that 
TAVR is cost-effective compared to MM for the treatment of severe AS in 
surgically inoperable patients.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.770747
PMID: 23356420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Emotion. 2013 Jun;13(3):497-505. doi: 10.1037/a0031070. Epub 2013 Jan 28.

Buddhist-inspired meditation increases the value of calm.

Koopmann-Holm B(1), Sze J, Ochs C, Tsai JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA 94305-2130, USA. 
bkoopmann@stanford.edu

Most studies of meditation have focused on "actual affect" (how people actually 
feel). We predict that meditation may even more significantly alter "ideal 
affect" (how people ideally want to feel). As predicted, meditators ideally 
wanted to feel calm more and excited less than nonmeditators, but the groups did 
not differ in their actual experience of calm or excited states (Study 1). We 
ruled out self-selection and nonspecific effects by randomly assigning 
participants to meditation classes, an improvisational theater class, or a no 
class control (Study 2). After eight weeks, meditators valued calm more but did 
not differ in their actual experience of calm compared with the other groups. 
There were no differences in ideal or actual excitement, suggesting that 
meditation selectively increases the value placed on calm. These findings were 
not due to expectancy effects (Study 3). We discuss the implications of these 
findings for understanding how meditation alters affective life.

DOI: 10.1037/a0031070
PMID: 23356567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. J Asthma. 2013 May;50(4):410-8. doi: 10.3109/02770903.2013.767909. Epub 2013
Mar  5.

Cost-utility analysis of the inhaled steroids available in a developing country 
for the management of pediatric patients with persistent asthma.

Rodríguez-Martínez CE(1), Sossa-Briceño MP, Castro-Rodriguez JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, School of Medicine, Universidad Nacional de 
Colombia, Bogota, Colombia. carerodriguezmar@unal.edu.co

INTRODUCTION: The choice among the different treatments available can have a 
great impact on the costs of asthma,
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to estimate the incremental 
cost-utility ratio of three inhaled corticosteroids (ICs): budesonide (BUD), 
fluticasone propionate (FP), and ciclesonide, compared to beclomethasone 
dipropionate (BDP) (the only IC included in the Compulsory Health Insurance Plan 
of Colombia),
METHODS: A Markov-type model was developed to estimate costs and health outcomes 
of a simulated cohort of patients less than 18 years of age with persistent 
asthma treated over a 12-month period. Effectiveness parameters were obtained 
from a systematic review of the literature. Cost data were obtained from a 
hospital´s bills and from the national manual of drug prices. The study assumed 
the perspective of the national healthcare in Colombia. The main outcome was the 
variable "quality-adjusted life years" (QALY), RESULTS: While treatment with BDP 
was associated with the lowest cost (£106.16 average cost per patient during 12 
months), treatment with FP resulted in the greatest gain in QUALYs (0.9325 
QALYs). FP was associated with a greater gain in QALYs compared to BUD and 
ciclesonide (0.9325 vs. 0.8999 and 0.9051 QALYs, respectively) at lower costs 
(£231.19 vs. £309.27 and £270.15, respectively), thus leading to dominance. The 
incremental cost-utility ratio of FP compared to BDP was £19,835.28 per QALY, 
CONCLUSIONS: BDP is the most cost-effective therapy for treating pediatric 
patients with persistent asthma when willingness to pay (WTP) is less than 
£21,129.22/QALY, otherwise, FP is the most cost-effective therapy.

DOI: 10.3109/02770903.2013.767909
PMID: 23356720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. BJU Int. 2013 Sep;112(5):638-46. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11659.x. Epub
 2013 Jan 28.

Cost-effectiveness of single-dose tamsulosin and dutasteride combination therapy 
compared with tamsulosin monotherapy in patients with benign prostatic 
hyperplasia in the UK.

Walker A(1), Doyle S, Posnett J, Hunjan M.

Author information:
(1)Heron Evidence Development Ltd, Luton, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the long-term cost-effectiveness of single-dose 
dutasteride/tamsulosin combination therapy as a first-line treatment for benign 
prostatic hyperplasia (BPH) from the perspective of the UK National Health 
Service (NHS).
METHODS: A Markov state transition model was developed to estimate healthcare 
costs and patient outcomes, measured by quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), for 
patients aged ≥50 years with diagnosed BPH and moderate to severe symptoms. 
Costs and outcomes were estimated for two treatment comparators: oral, daily, 
single-dose combination therapy (dutasteride 0.5 mg + tamsulosin 0.4 mg), and 
oral daily tamsulosin (0.4 mg) over a period up to 25 years. The efficacy of 
comparators was taken from results of the Combination of Avodart and Tamsulosin 
(CombAT) trial.
RESULTS: Cumulative discounted costs per patient were higher with combination 
therapy than with tamsulosin, but QALYs were also higher. After 25 years, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for combination therapy was £12,219, well 
within the threshold range (£20,000-£30,000 per QALY) typically applied in the 
NHS. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that the probability of 
combination therapy being cost-effective given the threshold range is between 
78% and 88%.
CONCLUSION: Single-dose combination dutasteride/tamsulosin therapy has a high 
probability of being cost-effective in comparison to tamsulosin monotherapy in 
the UK's NHS.

© 2013 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11659.x
PMID: 23356792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


168. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Jan;17(2):1-157, v-vi. doi: 10.3310/hta17020.

A pragmatic randomised controlled trial of the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of 'PhysioDirect' telephone assessment and advice services 
for physiotherapy.

Salisbury C(1), Foster NE, Hopper C, Bishop A, Hollinghurst S, Coast J, Kaur S, 
Pearson J, Franchini A, Hall J, Grove S, Calnan M, Busby J, Montgomery AA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Academic Primary Care, School of Social and Community Medicine, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. c.salisbury@bristol.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: As a result of long delays for physiotherapy for musculoskeletal 
problems, several areas in the UK have introduced PhysioDirect services in which 
patients telephone a physiotherapist for initial assessment and treatment 
advice. However, there is no robust evidence about the effectiveness, 
cost-effectiveness or acceptability to patients of PhysioDirect.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate whether or not PhysioDirect is equally as clinically 
effective as and more cost-effective than usual care for patients with 
musculoskeletal (MSK) problems in primary care.
DESIGN: Pragmatic randomised controlled trial to assess equivalence, 
incorporating economic evaluation and nested qualitative research. Patients were 
randomised in 2 : 1 ratio to PhysioDirect or usual care using a remote automated 
allocation system at the level of the individual, stratifying by physiotherapy 
site and minimising by sex, age group and site of MSK problem. For the economic 
analysis, cost consequences included NHS and patient costs, and the cost of lost 
production. Cost-effectiveness analysis was carried out from the perspective of 
the NHS. Interviews were conducted with patients, physiotherapists and their 
managers.
SETTING: Four community physiotherapy services in England.
PARTICIPANTS: Adults referred by general practitioners or self-referred for 
physiotherapy for a MSK problem.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients allocated to PhysioDirect were invited to telephone a 
senior physiotherapist for initial assessment and advice using a computerised 
template, followed by face-to-face care when necessary. Patients allocated to 
usual care were put on to a waiting list for face-to-face care.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary outcome was the Short Form questionnaire-36 
items, version 2 (SF-36v2) Physical Component Score (PCS) at 6 months after 
randomisation. Secondary outcomes included other measures of health outcome 
[Measure Yourself Medical Outcomes Profile, European Quality of Life-5 
Dimensions (EuroQol health utility measure, EQ-5D), global improvement, response 
to treatment], wait for treatment, time lost from work and usual activities, 
patient satisfaction. Data were collected by postal questionnaires at baseline, 
6 weeks and 6 months, and from routine records by researchers blind to 
allocation.
RESULTS: A total of 1506 patients were allocated to PhysioDirect and 743 to 
usual care. Patients allocated to PhysioDirect had a shorter wait for treatment 
than those allocated to usual care [median 7 days vs 34 days; arm-time ratio 
0.32, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.29 to 0.35] and had fewer non-attended 
face-to-face appointments [incidence rate ratio 0.55 (95% CI 0.41 to 0.73)]. The 
primary outcome at 6 months' follow-up was equivalent between PhysioDirect and 
usual care [mean PCS 43.50 vs 44.18, adjusted difference in means -0.01 (95% CI 
-0.80 to 0.79)]. The secondary measures of health outcome all demonstrated 
equivalence at 6 months, with slightly greater improvement in the PhysioDirect 
arm at 6 weeks' follow-up. Patients were equally satisfied with access to care 
but slightly less satisfied overall with PhysioDirect compared with usual care. 
NHS costs (physiotherapy plus other relevant NHS costs) per patient were similar 
in the two arms [PhysioDirect £ 198.98 vs usual care £ 179.68, difference in 
means £ 19.30 (95% CI -£ 37.60 to £ 76.19)], while QALYs gained were also 
similar [difference in means 0.007 (95% CI -0.003 to 0.016)]. Incremental cost 
per QALY gained was £ 2889. The probability that PhysioDirect was cost-effective 
at a £ 20,000 willingness-to-pay threshold was 88%. These conclusions about 
cost-effectiveness were robust to sensitivity analyses. There was no evidence of 
difference between trial arms in cost to patients or value of lost production. 
No adverse events were detected.
CONCLUSIONS: Providing physiotherapy via PhysioDirect is equally clinically 
effective compared with usual waiting list-based care, provides faster access to 
treatment, appears to be safe, and is broadly acceptable to patients. 
PhysioDirect is probably cost-effective compared with usual care.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17020
PMCID: PMC4780921
PMID: 23356839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


169. BJU Int. 2013 Aug;112(3):322-9. doi: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11715.x. Epub
2013  Jan 28.

Fourteen-year oncological and functional outcomes of high-intensity focused 
ultrasound in localized prostate cancer.

Ganzer R(1), Fritsche HM, Brandtner A, Bründl J, Koch D, Wieland WF, Blana A.

Author information:
(1)Caritas St. Josef Medical Center, University of Regensburg, Regensburg, 
Germany. rganzer@caritasstjosef.de

WHAT'S KNOWN ON THE SUBJECT? AND WHAT DOES THE STUDY ADD?: High-intensity 
focused ultrasound (HIFU) is an alternative treatment option for localized 
prostate cancer (PCa), which is applied for over 15 years. There are conflicting 
recommendations for HIFU among urological societies, which can be explained by 
the lack of prospective controlled studies, reports on preselected patient 
populations and limited follow-up providing little information on overall and 
cancer-specific survival. We report on a large, unselected consecutive patient 
series of patients who have undergone primary HIFU for clinically localized PCa 
with the longest follow-up in current literature. Our results improve the 
understanding of the oncological efficacy, morbidity and side effects of primary 
HIFU.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the safety, functional and oncological long-term outcomes 
of high-intensity focused ultrasound (HIFU) as a primary treatment option for 
localized prostate cancer (PCa).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We conducted a retrospective single-centre study on 538 
consecutive patients who underwent primary HIFU for clinically localized PCa 
between November 1997 and September 2009. Factors assessed were: biochemical 
disease-free survival (BDFS) according to Phoenix criteria (prostate-specific 
antigen nadir + 2 ng/mL); metastatic-free, overall and PCa-specific survival; 
salvage treatment; side effects; potency; and continence status.
RESULTS: The mean (sd; range) follow-up was 8.1 (2.9; 2.1-14.0) years. The 
actuarial BDFS rates at 5 and 10 years were 81 and 61%, respectively. The 5-year 
BDFS rates for low-, intermediate- and high-risk patients were 88, 83 and 48%, 
while the 10-year BDFS rates were 71, 63 and 32%, respectively. Metastatic 
disease was reported in 0.4, 5.7 and 15.4% of low-, intermediate- and high-risk 
patients, respectively. The salvage treatment rate was 18%. Seventy-five (13.9%) 
patients died. PCa-specific death was registered in 18 (3.3%) patients (0, 3.8 
and 11% in the low-, intermediate- and high-risk groups, respectively). Side 
effects included bladder outlet obstruction (28.3%), Grade I, II and III stress 
urinary incontinence (13.8, 2.4 and 0.7%, respectively) and recto-urethral 
fistula (0.7%). Preserved potency was 25.4% (in previously potent patients).
CONCLUSIONS: The study demonstrates the efficacy and safety of HIFU for 
localized PCa. HIFU is a therapeutic option for patients of advanced age, in the 
low- or intermediate-risk groups, and with a life expectancy of ∼10 years.

© 2013 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1464-410X.2012.11715.x
PMID: 23356910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


170. Atheroscler Suppl. 2013 Jan;14(1):129-34. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosissup.2012.10.010.

Lipoprotein apheresis reduces adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein serum levels.

Lamounier-Zepter V(1), Look C, Ehrhart-Bornstein M, Bornstein SR, Fischer S, 
Julius U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, 
Fetscherstr 74, 01307 Dresden, Germany. valeria.zepter@uniklinikum-dresden.de

BACKGROUND AND METHODS: Adipocyte fatty acid-binding protein (FABP4) is a member 
of the intracellular lipid-binding protein family highly expressed in adipocytes 
and macrophages. Recent studies indicate a key role for circulating FABP4 in the 
pathogenesis of atherosclerosis and type 2 diabetes. We described an additional 
role for FABP4 in the development of cardiac dysfunction in obesity. Therefore, 
FABP4 seems to be a target in the prevention and treatment of metabolic and 
cardiovascular disorders in obesity with high potential for future therapeutic 
applications. However, a safe pharmacological therapy is not yet available. 
Lipoprotein apheresis is an established therapy for severe and otherwise 
untreatable hypercholesterolemia which increases life expectancy in patients at 
high-risk for cardiovascular events. We therefore investigated the acute effect 
of lipoprotein apheresis on FABP4 serum levels in 64 high-risk patients (25 
women, 39 men) under regular apheresis treatment.
RESULTS: FABP4 levels were significantly reduced by 23.2 ± 1.8% by apheresis 
treatment. Although women had higher FABP4 levels than men (53.5 ± 8.3 ng/ml vs. 
30.7 ± 4.3 ng/ml), reduction rate after lipoprotein apheresis was similar in 
both genders. Among the apheresis methods investigated, immunoadsorption of 
lipoproteins was most effective in lowering circulating FABP4.
CONCLUSION: These data suggest that the reduction of FABP4 serum levels may 
contribute to the preventive effect of lipoprotein apheresis on cardiovascular 
events.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosissup.2012.10.010
PMID: 23357154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


171. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis. 2013 Mar;24(2):211-2. doi: 
10.1097/MBC.0b013e32835b243a.

Polymyalgia rheumatica: a diagnostic challenge in the elderly with haemophilia 
and diffuse arthropathy.

Carvalhosa AM(1), Lambert C, Hermans C.

Author information:
(1)Haemostasis and Thrombosis Unit, Haemophilia Centre, Division of Haematology, 
Cliniques universitaires Saint-Luc, Brussels, Belgium.

With the increased life expectancy and associated comorbidities in haemophilic 
patients, greater awareness is needed to avoid being misled by symptoms 
mimicking haemophilia-related conditions. Here, we discuss the case of a 
77-year-old man with congenital moderate haemophilia complicated by diffuse 
haemophilic arthropathy. He presented with persistent pain and stiffness 
affecting both shoulder and pelvic girdles, unresponsive to factor VIII (FVIII) 
infusions. A blood test confirmed the high clinical suspicion of polymyalgia 
rheumatica (PMR), justifying a course of low-dose methylprednisolone that led to 
significant clinical and biological improvement. This is the first reported case 
of congenital haemophilia and PMR. We here review some elements helpful to 
overcome this diagnostic challenge. Adequate diagnosis and management of PMR in 
elderly patients with haemophilia is particularly important not only to relieve 
pain but also to avoid inappropriate use of clotting factor concentrates.

DOI: 10.1097/MBC.0b013e32835b243a
PMID: 23358205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


172. J R Soc Med. 2013 Jan;106(1):13-8. doi: 10.1258/jrsm.2012.120183.

Management of operable breast cancer in older women.

Fentiman IS(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Oncology, Guy's Hospital, London SE1 9RT, UK. 
Ian.fentiman@gstt.nhs.uk

Older women are not being given the opportunity to benefit from the improvements 
in both local and systemic treatment for breast cancer. Mammographic screening 
call/recall system ceases at age 72, making access more difficult. Knowledge 
about breast cancer in those aged >75 is significantly reduced in terms of 
understanding symptoms and personal risk but studies have shown that 
intervention can improve this, at least in the short term. Although older women 
are more likely to have estrogen receptor positive tumours, nevertheless, more 
than one-third of women aged over 70 have grade III, aggressive breast cancers. 
Whenever possible, older women should be offered breast conserving therapy 
rather than mastectomy since this not only improves their quality of life but 
also reduces risk of subsequent mental health problems. Endocrine treatment 
alone should not be used other than in patients with severe co-morbidity and a 
life-expectancy of less than a year. As adjuvant treatment in those with 
estrogen receptor positive cancers, the choice between tamoxifen and an 
aromatase inhibitor will depend upon co-morbidity, side-effects and patient 
choice.

DOI: 10.1258/jrsm.2012.120183
PMCID: PMC3556808
PMID: 23358275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


173. J Public Health Manag Pract. 2013 Mar-Apr;19(2):133-8. doi: 
10.1097/PHH.0b013e31825490cd.

Long-term effects of health factor modification in Milwaukee County.

Shi L(1), van Meijgaard J, Fielding JE.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Health Services, University of California Los Angeles, Los 
Angeles, USA.

We use the UCLA Health Forecasting Tool to forecast the 2011-2050 health trends 
in Milwaukee County. We first simulate a baseline scenario (S-1) that assumes no 
health behavior change, and compare this with three simulated intervention 
scenarios: expansion of Quitline reach to enhance smoking cessation (S-2), an 
increased penetration of diabetes screening (S-3) and construction of additional 
recreational facilities (S-4). We compared the disease-free life years (DFLY) 
gained from each intervention scenario by 2050 on a year-by-year and cumulative 
basis. Simulation results show that increasing access to recreational facilities 
achieves the greatest gain in DFLYs for every year from 2011 to 2050. By 2050, 
the cumulative DFLY gain is 22 393, 5956 and 41 396 for S-2, S-3, and S-4, 
respectively. The cost-effectiveness ratios for Quitline expansion, diabetes 
screening, and recreational facility construction are $1802, $1285, and $1322, 
per DFLY gained, respectively.

DOI: 10.1097/PHH.0b013e31825490cd
PMID: 23358291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


174. Nat Rev Neurol. 2013 Mar;9(3):141-51. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2012.279. Epub
2013  Jan 29.

Surgical resection of malignant gliomas-role in optimizing patient outcome.

Eyüpoglu IY(1), Buchfelder M, Savaskan NE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Schwabachanlage 
6, D-91054 Erlangen, Germany. ilker.eyupoglu@uk-erlangen.de

Malignant gliomas represent one of the most devastating human diseases. Primary 
treatment of these tumours involves surgery to achieve tumour debulking, 
followed by a multimodal regimen of radiotherapy and chemotherapy. Survival time 
in patients with malignant glioma has modestly increased in recent years owing 
to advances in surgical and intraoperative imaging techniques, as well as the 
systematic implementation of randomized trial-based protocols and 
biomarker-based stratification of patients. The role and importance of several 
clinical and molecular factors-such as age, Karnofsky score, and genetic and 
epigenetic status-that have predictive value with regard to postsurgical outcome 
has also been identified. By contrast, the effect of the extent of glioma 
resection on patient outcome has received little attention, with an 'all or 
nothing' approach to tumour removal still taken in surgical practice. Recent 
studies, however, reveal that maximal possible cytoreduction without incurring 
neurological deficits has critical prognostic value for patient outcome and 
survival. Here, we evaluate state-of-the-art surgical procedures that are used 
in management of malignant glioma, with a focus on assessment criteria and value 
of tumour reduction. We highlight key surgical factors that enable optimization 
of adjuvant treatment to enhance patient quality of life and improve life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneurol.2012.279
PMID: 23358480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


175. World J Surg. 2013 Apr;37(4):746-51. doi: 10.1007/s00268-013-1925-9.

Single port laparoscopic totally extraperitoneal hernioplasty: a comparative 
study of short-term outcome with conventional laparoscopic totally 
extraperitoneal hernioplasty.

Kim JH(1), Lee YS, Kim JJ, Park SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Incheon St. Mary's Hospital, The Catholic University 
of Korea, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: Recently, single port laparoscopic surgery has begun to develop as 
an extension of minimally invasive surgery, but there have been only a few 
reports of single port laparoscopic totally extraperitoneal (SPLTEP) 
hernioplasty. In addition, there are few comparative studies with conventional 
laparoscopic totally extraperitoneal (CLTEP) hernioplasty. The aim of the 
present study was to report our experience with SPLTEP hernioplasty and to 
compare short-term outcomes for SPLTEP hernioplasty with CLTEP hernioplasty.
METHODS: Data were prospectively collected for all patients undergoing SPLTEP 
hernioplasty for inguinal hernia at Incheon St. Mary's Hospital, Incheon, Korea. 
Data for the SPLTEP group (n = 76 patients enrolled between June 2010 and May 
2011) were compared retrospectively with data for the CLTEP group (n = 93 
patients enrolled between June 2009 and May 2010).
RESULTS: There were no significant differences in patient demographics. This 
study showed no significant difference in terms of operative time between the 
two groups (SPLTEP group 54.0 min vs. CLTEP group 47.8 min; p = 0.07). There 
were no conversions to conventional TEP hernioplasty or transabdominal 
preperitoneal hernioplasty or open surgery in SPLTEP hernioplasty. Morbidity 
rates were 7.9 % (n = 6) in the SPLTEP group and 10.8 % (n = 10) in the CLTEP 
group, and the difference was not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Single port laparoscopic totally extraperitoneal hernioplasty is 
technically feasible and the short-term operative outcome is comparable to that 
of CLTEP hernioplasty. Future large-scale prospective controlled studies and 
long-term analysis are needed to establish the cosmetic outcomes, quality of 
life, long-term recurrence rate, and long-term complication rate of SPLTEP 
hernioplasty.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-013-1925-9
PMID: 23358595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. World J Urol. 2013 Dec;31(6):1347-52. doi: 10.1007/s00345-013-1029-z. Epub
2013  Jan 29.

Salvage radical prostatectomy as management of locally recurrent prostate 
cancer: outcomes and complications.

Rosoff JS(1), Savage SJ, Prasad SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Medical University of South Carolina, 96 Jonathan 
Lucas Street, CSB 644, Charleston, SC, 29464, USA.

PURPOSE: Management of prostate cancer following radiation therapy remains 
challenging, especially for younger men or those with life expectancy greater 
than 10 years. We outline the efficacy, safety and adequacy of radical 
prostatectomy for the treatment of radiorecurrent localized prostate cancer.
METHODS: A systematic review was performed in September 2012 searching MEDLINE 
articles from 1980 to 2012 on salvage radical prostatectomy. We excluded 
unpublished data and non-English-language articles.
RESULTS: The ideal candidate for salvage radical prostatectomy (SRP) has a life 
expectancy greater than 10 years, a PSA < 10 ng/ml and whose initial clinical 
staging was T1 or T2. A prostate biopsy and imaging studies to rule out 
metastatic disease should be performed prior to SRP. Salvage RP has a high 
complication rate, but this appears to be decreasing over time. Urinary 
continence rates range from 36 to 81%, whereas erectile function following SRP 
was generally poor with less than 30% of men regaining adequate erectile 
function. Men with good erectile function prior to SRP fared better than those 
with pre-operative erectile dysfunction. Biochemical recurrence-free probability 
at 5 years ranged from 37 to 55% and the estimated cancer-specific survival at 
10 years ranged from 70 to 83%. Minimally invasive SRP is feasible and early 
outcomes suggest that this approach is not inferior to open surgery.
CONCLUSION: SRP offers a potentially curative option with proven long-term 
disease-free survival in appropriately selected patients. Given the morbidity of 
this procedure, judicious patient selection and referral to providers 
experienced with salvage surgery may optimize patient outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-013-1029-z
PMID: 23358790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


177. Arthritis Rheum. 2013 Feb;65(2):529-38. doi: 10.1002/art.37734.

Low-dose naltrexone for the treatment of fibromyalgia: findings of a small, 
randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, counterbalanced, crossover trial 
assessing daily pain levels.

Younger J(1), Noor N, McCue R, Mackey S.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University School of Medicine, Palo Alto, California 94304-1573, 
USA. jarred.younger@stanford.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether low dosages (4.5 mg/day) of naltrexone reduce 
fibromyalgia severity as compared with the nonspecific effects of placebo. In 
this replication and extension study of a previous clinical trial, we tested the 
impact of low-dose naltrexone on daily self-reported pain. Secondary outcomes 
included general satisfaction with life, positive mood, sleep quality, and 
fatigue.
METHODS: Thirty-one women with fibromyalgia participated in the randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled, counterbalanced, crossover study. During the 
active drug phase, participants received 4.5 mg of oral naltrexone daily. An 
intensive longitudinal design was used to measure daily levels of pain.
RESULTS: When contrasting the condition end points, we observed a significantly 
greater reduction of baseline pain in those taking low-dose naltrexone than in 
those taking placebo (28.8% reduction versus 18.0% reduction; P = 0.016). 
Low-dose naltrexone was also associated with improved general satisfaction with 
life (P = 0.045) and with improved mood (P = 0.039), but not improved fatigue or 
sleep. Thirty-two percent of participants met the criteria for response (defined 
as a significant reduction in pain plus a significant reduction in either 
fatigue or sleep problems) during low-dose naltrexone therapy, as contrasted 
with an 11% response rate during placebo therapy (P = 0.05). Low-dose naltrexone 
was rated equally tolerable as placebo, and no serious side effects were 
reported.
CONCLUSION: The preliminary evidence continues to show that low-dose naltrexone 
has a specific and clinically beneficial impact on fibromyalgia pain. The 
medication is widely available, inexpensive, safe, and well-tolerated. 
Parallel-group randomized controlled trials are needed to fully determine the 
efficacy of the medication.

Copyright © 2013 by the American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.37734
PMID: 23359310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2012 Oct;23(10):2855-62.

[Combined toxicity of copper and cadmium to cladoceran Moina marocopa].

[Article in Chinese]

Shen P(1), Xi YL, Zhang Y, Zhou B, Wang M.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Anhui Normal University/Anhui Province Key 
Laboratory of Biotic Environment and Ecological Safety, Wuhu 241000, Anhui, 
China. shenpengslwp@163.com

In this paper, the 48 h LC50 values of Cu2+, Cd2+ and CU(2+)+Cd2+ (CU2+:Cd2+ = 
1:1) to Moina macrocopa were determined by acute toxicity tests, and the effects 
of different concentrations of Cu2+, Cd2+ and Cu(2+)+Cd2+ on the life table 
demography of M. macrocopa were studied by life table demography. The 48 h LC50 
of Cu2+, Cd2+ and Cu(2+)+Cd2+ to M. macrocopa was 0.106, 0.117 and 0.212 mg x 
L(-1), respectively, and the acute toxicity of Cu(2+)+Cd2+ mixture to M. 
macrocopa showed an antagonistic effect. Cu2+ had no significant effects on the 
life expectancy at hatching, gross reproductive rate, net reproductive rate, 
generation time, and intrinsic rate of population increase of M. macrocopa, 
whereas Cd2+ and Cu(2+)+Cd2+ had significant effects on the life expectancy at 
hatching, gross reproductive rate, net reproductive rate and generation time, 
but no significant effects on the intrinsic rate of population increase of M. 
macrocopa. Compared with the control, the 0.004 and 0.005 mg x L(-1) of Cd2+ and 
the 0.006-0.010 mg x L(-1) of Cu(2+)+Cd2+ decreased the life expectancy at 
hatching and the gross reproductive rate of M. macrocopa significantly, and the 
0.004 and 0.005 mg x L(-1) of Cd2+ and the 0.008-0.010 mg x L(-1) of Cu(2+)+Cd2+ 
reduced the net reproductive rate and the generation time of M. macrocopa 
significantly. The chronic toxicity of Cu(2+)+Cd2+ mixture to M. macrocopa 
showed a synergistic effect. There existed significant dose-effect relationships 
between the concentrations of Cd2+ and Cu(2+)+Cd2+ and the life expectancy at 
hatching, gross reproductive rate, net reproductive rate, and generation time of 
M. macrocopa.

PMID: 23359950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. BMC Cancer. 2013 Jan 29;13:39. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-39.

Gene-guided gefitinib switch maintenance therapy for patients with advanced EGFR 
mutation-positive non-small cell lung cancer: an economic analysis.

Zhu J(1), Li T, Wang X, Ye M, Cai J, Xu Y, Wu B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Shanghai Chest Hospital, affiliated with the School 
of Medicine, Shanghai Jiaotong University, West Huaihai Road 241, Shanghai, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Maintenance therapy with gefitinib notably improves survival in 
patients with advanced non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and EGFR 
mutation-positive tumors, but the economic impact of this practice is unclear.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed to simulate 21-day patient 
transitions in a 10-year time horizon. The clinical data were primarily obtained 
from the results of a pivotal phase III trial that assessed gefitinib 
maintenance treatment in patients with advanced NSCLC. The cost data were 
derived from the perspective of the Chinese health care system. The primary 
outcome was the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) at a 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of 3 times the per capita GDP of China. 
Sensitivity analyses were used to explore the impact of uncertainty regarding 
the results. The impact of the gefitinib patient assistance program (GPAP) was 
evaluated.
RESULTS: After EGFR genotyping, gefitinib maintenance treatment for advanced 
NSCLC with EGFR mutations increased the life expectancy by 0.74 years and 0.46 
QALYs compared with routine follow-up at an additional cost of $26,149.90 USD 
($7,178.20 with the GPAP). The ICER for gefitinib maintenance was $57,066.40 and 
$15,664.80 per QALY gained (at a 3% discount rate) without and with the GPAP, 
respectively. The utility of progression free survival, the hazard ratio of 
progression-free survival for gefitinib treatment and the cost of gefitinib per 
dose were the three factors that had the greatest influence on the results.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that gene-guided maintenance therapy with 
gefitinib with the GPAP might be a cost-effective treatment option.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-39
PMCID: PMC3568065
PMID: 23360224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Curr Pharm Des. 2013;19(24):4423-36. doi: 10.2174/1381612811319240009.

Pharmacological approaches to chronic spinal cord injury.

Steuer I(1), Rouleau P, Guertin PA.

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Unit, Laval University Medical Center (CHUL - CHUQ), Quebec 
City, Quebec, Canada.

Although research on neural tissue repair has made enormous progress in recent 
years, spinal cord injury remains a devastating condition for which there is 
still no cure. In fact, recent estimates of prevalence in the United States 
reveal that spinal cord injury has undergone a five-fold increase in the last 
decades. Though, it has become the second most common neurological problem in 
North America after Alzheimer's disease. Despite modern trauma units and 
intensive care treatments, spinal cord injury remains associated with several 
comorbid conditions and unbearable health care costs. Regular administration of 
a plethora of symptomatic drug treatments aimed at controlling related-secondary 
complications and life-threatening problems in chronic spinal cord-injured 
patients has recently been reported. This article provides a thorough overview 
of the main drug classes and products currently used or in development for 
chronic spinal cord injury. Special attention is paid to a novel class of drug 
treatment designed to provide a holistic solution for several chronic 
complications and diseases related with spinal cord injury. There is clear 
evidence showing that new class can elicit 'on-demand' episodes of rhythmic and 
stereotyped walking activity in previously completely paraplegic animals and may 
consequently constitute a simple therapy against several physical 
inactivity-related comorbid problems. Understanding further pharmacological 
approaches to chronic spinal cord injury may improve both life expectancy and 
overall quality of life while reducing unsustainable cost increases associated 
with this debilitation condition.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612811319240009
PMID: 23360274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Popul Health Metr. 2013 Jan 29;11(1):1. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-11-1.

Decomposing Indigenous life expectancy gap by risk factors: a life table 
analysis.

Zhao Y(1), Wright J, Begg S, Guthridge S.

Author information:
(1)Health Gains Planning Branch, Northern Territory Department of Health, Darwin 
Plaza, 1st Floor, Smith St Mall, Darwin, NT 0801, Australia. 
yuejen.zhao@nt.gov.au.

BACKGROUND: The estimated gap in life expectancy (LE) between Indigenous and 
non-Indigenous Australians was 12 years for men and 10 years for women, whereas 
the Northern Territory Indigenous LE gap was at least 50% greater than the 
national figures. This study aims to explain the Indigenous LE gap by common 
modifiable risk factors.
METHODS: This study covered the period from 1986 to 2005. Unit record death data 
from the Northern Territory were used to assess the differences in LE at birth 
between the Indigenous and non-Indigenous populations by socioeconomic 
disadvantage, smoking, alcohol abuse, obesity, pollution, and intimate partner 
violence. The population attributable fractions were applied to estimate the 
numbers of deaths associated with the selected risks. The standard life table 
and cause decomposition technique was used to examine the individual and joint 
effects on health inequality.
RESULTS: The findings from this study indicate that among the selected risk 
factors, socioeconomic disadvantage was the leading health risk and accounted 
for one-third to one-half of the Indigenous LE gap. A combination of all six 
selected risks explained over 60% of the Indigenous LE gap.
CONCLUSIONS: Improving socioeconomic status, smoking cessation, and overweight 
reduction are critical to closing the Indigenous LE gap. This paper presents a 
useful way to explain the impact of risk factors of health inequalities, and 
suggests that reducing poverty should be placed squarely at the centre of the 
strategies to close the Indigenous LE gap.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-11-1
PMCID: PMC3585166
PMID: 23360645


182. Drugs Today (Barc). 2013 Jan;49(1):23-31. doi:
10.1358/dot.2013.49.1.1906424.

Perampanel: a novel antiepileptic for the adjunctive treatment of refractory 
partial onset seizures.

Owen RT(1).

Author information:
(1)Freelance Medical Writer, Crewe, Cheshire, UK. 
scientific.prousjournals@thomsonreuters.com

Perampanel is a selective noncompetitive AMPA-type glutamate receptor antagonist 
which has demonstrated anticonvulsant activity in experimental seizure models 
and antiepileptic activity in clinical trials. Perampanel has a long mean 
elimination half-life of 105 hours but this may be reduced in the presence of 
enzyme-inducing antiepileptic drugs. Adjunctive use of perampanel at 4-12 mg/day 
in refractory partial-onset seizures reduced seizures by 23-34% in short-term, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trials. These reductions were maintained 
long-term in open-label extension studies lasting up to 4 years. Dizziness, 
somnolence and headache were the most common treatment-emergent adverse events; 
discontinuation rates due to adverse events approximated 13% in long-term 
studies. Perampanel's efficacy and tolerability outcomes are broadly comparable 
with other agents licensed for adjunctive use in refractory partial onset 
seizures.

Copyright 2013 Prous Science, S.A.U. or its licensors. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1358/dot.2013.49.1.1906424
PMID: 23362493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. BMC Infect Dis. 2013 Jan 30;13:54. doi: 10.1186/1471-2334-13-54.

An update of "Cost-effectiveness of rotavirus vaccination in the Netherlands: 
the results of a Consensus Rotavirus Vaccine model".

Tu HA(1), Rozenbaum MH, de Boer PT, Noort AC, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. thihonganh.tu@utoronto.ca

BACKGROUND: To update a cost-effectiveness analysis of rotavirus vaccination in 
the Netherlands previously published in 2011.
METHODS: The rotavirus burden of disease and the indirect protection of older 
children and young adults (herd protection) were updated.
RESULTS: When updated data was used, routine infant rotavirus vaccination in the 
Netherlands would potentially become an even more cost-effective strategy than 
previously estimated with the incremental cost per QALY at only €3,000-4,000. 
Break-even total vaccination costs were indicated at €92-122, depending on the 
applied threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: We concluded that the results on potentially favourable 
cost-effectiveness in the previous study remained valid, however, the new data 
suggested that previous results might represent an underestimation of the 
economic attractiveness of rotavirus vaccination.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2334-13-54
PMCID: PMC3568412
PMID: 23363553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Oncologist. 2013;18(2):232-8. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2012-0423. Epub
2013  Jan 30.

Publicly funded clinical trials and the future of cancer care.

Schilsky RL(1).

Author information:
(1)Section of Hematology-Oncology, The University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, 
USA. richard.schilsky@asco.org

Publicly sponsored trials, conducted primarily by cooperative groups sponsored 
by the National Cancer Institute, and commercially sponsored trials are 
necessary to create new knowledge, improve the care of oncology patients, and 
develop new drugs and devices. Commercial sponsors launch clinical trials that 
will result in drug approval, label extension, expansion of market share, and an 
increase in shareholder value. Conversely, publicly sponsored trials seek to 
optimize therapy for a particular disease, create new knowledge, and improve 
public health; these trials can also result in label extension of a drug and 
even in initial drug approval. Publicly sponsored trials may combine and/or 
compare drugs developed by different commercial sponsors, develop multimodality 
therapies (e.g., the combination of chemotherapy and radiation), or develop 
novel treatment schedules or routes of drug administration (e.g., 
intraperitoneal chemotherapy). Publicly sponsored trials are more likely to 
focus on therapies for rare diseases and to study survivorship and quality of 
life; these areas may not be a priority for commercial entities. Screening and 
prevention strategies have been developed almost exclusively by the public 
sector given the large sample size and long follow-up period needed to complete 
the trial and, therefore, the lack of short-term commercial gain. Finally, given 
the public nature of the funding, clinical investigators are expected to publish 
their results even if the outcomes are unfavorable for the investigational 
therapy. With the ongoing reorganization of the cooperative groups to form a 
national clinical trials network, opportunities exist to create a robust 
platform for biomarker discovery and validation through the expanded collection 
of well-annotated biospecimens obtained from clinical trial participants. Thus, 
publicly funded trials are vital to developing and refining new cancer 
treatments and disseminating results to the medical community and the general 
public.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2012-0423
PMCID: PMC3579608
PMID: 23363807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of potential conflicts of interest 
may be found at the end of this article.


185. Zhonghua Yu Fang Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2012 Dec;46(12):1084-7.

[Economic burden of disease studies in patients with epilepsy].

[Article in Chinese]

Chang L(1), Zhu BY, Chang J, Feng SX, Zhou G.

Author information:
(1)Health Education and Chronic Non-communicable Diseases Prevention Institute, 
Henan Provincial Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Zhengzhou 450000, 
China. sinary007@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the various factors affecting the economic burden of 
disease in patients with epilepsy.
METHODS: This research used a multi-stage random sampling method, comprehensive 
intervention and without intervention of the epilepsy project group conducted a 
field survey of health examination among patients with epilepsy of 874 (422 
cases in intervention group and 452 cases in control group) in Mengzhou, Xiuwu, 
Yancheng, Yuanhui, Wuyang, Linying, Shaoling, Xinye and Fangcheng. DALY 
indicators combined with human capital approach was used to measure the economic 
burden of disease in patients from two aspects of the direct economic burden and 
indirect economic burden.
RESULTS: The age of comprehensive intervention group was (43.7 ± 8.5) years old, 
and it was (44.4 ± 7.2) years old in no intervention control group. The age 
difference was not statistically significant (P = 0.365). The direct economic 
burden per capita of the survey was 1019.6 yuan per year, while epilepsy drugs 
434.2 yuan per year, 485.2 and 66.4 yuan per year in the intervention group, 
while 1518.5 and 777.5 yuan per year in the control group. Each object in this 
study lost (16.67 ± 10.01) DALY, with 8.58 DALY in intervention group and 24.23 
DALY in no intervention control group. The per capita indirect economic burden 
of the intervention and control groups were 68 115.2, 401 036.5 yuan, the per 
capita total economic burden of disease were 68 600.5, 408 755.0 yuan. 
Multivariate logistic regression analysis showed that disease duration year of ≥ 
37, 30 - 36, 20 - 29, 10 - 19, OR (95%CI) were 4.44 (2.37 - 8.33), 3.32 (1.85 - 
5.94), 3.25 (1.90 - 5.56), 2.53 (1.46 - 4.41). If patients with longer duration, 
the more serious the patient's disease burden. Medication compliance (in order 
to comply with a good group control) OR (95%CI) was 3.37 (2.34 - 4.83), 
medication in the single form (serving multi-drug groups for control) OR (95%CI) 
0.41 (0.29 - 0.59). Serving a single agent and good compliance of economic 
burden of disease were lighter.
CONCLUSION: Epilepsy caused serious economic damage. Longer duration, medication 
adherence poor and serving more than medicine by heavier economic burden of 
disease; comprehensive intervention could reduce the economic burden of disease 
of patients with epilepsy.

PMID: 23363964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. J Phys Act Health. 2014 Feb;11(2):278-84. doi: 10.1123/jpah.2011-0368. Epub
2013  Jan 30.

Comparing quality-adjusted life expectancy at different levels of physical 
activity.

Jia H(1), Lubetkin EI.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Biostatistics, Columbia University, New York, NY.

BACKGROUND: Physical activity is a determinant of health which has been shown to 
impact both morbidity and mortality. This study compares quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE) according to different levels of physical activity.
METHODS: This study estimated health-related quality of life from the 2001-2009 
Behavioral Risk Factor Surveillance System and then applied these estimates to 
the life tables to calculate QALE for individuals who engaged in 4 categories of 
physical activity-vigorous, moderate only, leisure-time only, and inactive.
RESULTS: The QALE at 18 years old was 58.4, 54.0, 54.2, and 47.0 years for 
individuals who reported vigorous activity, moderate activity, leisure-time 
activity, and inactivity, respectively. The QALE for inactive white females was 
9.2 years less than the QALE for white females who engaged in some physical 
activity, the most among the 4 sex-by-race groups; this was followed by white 
males (7.8 years), Black females (6.7 years), and Black males (6.0 years).
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the incremental improvement of individuals' 
life expectancy and QALE with increases in physical activity. These findings 
could be of assistance to clinicians in motivating patients to become more 
active and public health officials and policymakers evaluating intervention 
programs designed to promote physical activity.

DOI: 10.1123/jpah.2011-0368
PMID: 23364410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Bone Joint J. 2013 Feb;95-B(2):210-6. doi: 10.1302/0301-620X.95B2.29323.

The Oswestry Risk Index: an aid in the treatment of metastatic disease of the 
spine.

Balain B(1), Jaiswal A, Trivedi JM, Eisenstein SM, Kuiper JH, Jaffray DC.

Author information:
(1)Robert Jones & Agnes Hunt Orthopaedic and District Hospital NHS Trust, 
Oswestry, UK.

The revised Tokuhashi, Tomita and modified Bauer scores are commonly used to 
make difficult decisions in the management of patients presenting with spinal 
metastases. A prospective cohort study of 199 consecutive patients presenting 
with spinal metastases, treated with either surgery and/or radiotherapy, was 
used to compare the three systems. Cox regression, Nagelkerke's R(2) and 
Harrell's concordance were used to compare the systems and find their best 
predictive items. The three systems were equally good in terms of overall 
prognostic performance. Their most predictive items were used to develop the 
Oswestry Spinal Risk Index (OSRI), which has a similar concordance, but a larger 
coefficient of determination than any of these three scores. A bootstrap 
procedure was used to internally validate this score and determine its 
prediction optimism. The OSRI is a simple summation of two elements: primary 
tumour pathology (PTP) and general condition (GC): OSRI = PTP + (2 - GC). This 
simple score can predict life expectancy accurately in patients presenting with 
spinal metastases. It will be helpful in making difficult clinical decisions 
without the delay of extensive investigations.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.95B2.29323
PMID: 23365031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Int J Health Serv. 2012;42(4):579-89. doi: 10.2190/HS.42.4.a.

The killing fields of inequality.

Therborn G(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Cambridge. gt274@cam.ac.uk

The article presents a multidimensional analysis of inequality, in a global 
perspective, distinguishing vital, existential, and material resources 
inequality. These dimensions are interrelated and interacting, but irreducible 
to each other, and have had different historical trajectories, within and 
between nations. Over the last half-century, the contrast between advances of 
existential equalization, on one hand, and persistent, even increasing, vital 
inequality of life expectancy and health is striking. Inequalities are produced 
by specific mechanisms, of which distanciation, exclusion, hierarchization, and 
exploitation are the most important. They have each their corresponding 
mechanism of equality, of rapprochement or approximation, of inclusion, of 
organizational flattening or de-hierarchization, and of redistribution, 
rehabilitation, and recompensation. The mechanisms and their results are 
illustrated empirically in a systematic global overview.

DOI: 10.2190/HS.42.4.a
