Older donors with hypertension were predicted to lose less life years and lower 
cumulative ESRD risks than young donors. Despite these increased risks most 
donors will have better life expectancy and lower ESRD rates than the general 
population since they are a highly selected cohort.
CONCLUSIONS: This study attempts to quantify increases in death and ESRD from 
donor nephrectomy assuming the risk factors of hypertension, low GFR and 
proteinuria have the same significance in this population as in the general 
population. Further study is required to better estimate the risks of donation 
and test whether these assumptions are valid.

DOI: 10.1186/2047-1440-2-2
PMCID: PMC3577426
PMID: 23414596


316. Cell. 2013 Feb 14;152(4):806-17. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2013.01.020.

A genetic program promotes C. elegans longevity at cold temperatures via a 
thermosensitive TRP channel.

Xiao R(1), Zhang B, Dong Y, Gong J, Xu T, Liu J, Xu XZ.

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA.

Comment in
    Cell. 2013 Feb 14;152(4):671-2.

Both poikilotherms and homeotherms live longer at lower body temperatures, 
highlighting a general role of temperature reduction in lifespan extension. 
However, the underlying mechanisms remain unclear. One prominent model is that 
cold temperatures reduce the rate of chemical reactions, thereby slowing the 
rate of aging. This view suggests that cold-dependent lifespan extension is 
simply a passive thermodynamic process. Here, we challenge this view in C. 
elegans by showing that genetic programs actively promote longevity at cold 
temperatures. We find that TRPA-1, a cold-sensitive TRP channel, detects 
temperature drop in the environment to extend lifespan. This effect requires 
cold-induced, TRPA-1-mediated calcium influx and a calcium-sensitive PKC that 
signals to the transcription factor DAF-16/FOXO. Human TRPA1 can functionally 
substitute for worm TRPA-1 in promoting longevity. Our results reveal a 
previously unrecognized function for TRP channels, link calcium signaling to 
longevity, and, importantly, demonstrate that genetic programs contribute to 
lifespan extension at cold temperatures.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2013.01.020
PMCID: PMC3594097
PMID: 23415228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Lung Cancer. 2013 May;80(2):115-9. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2013.01.004. Epub
2013  Feb 13.

Lung surgery in the elderly today.

Rocco G(1), Weder W.

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic Surgery, Department of Thoracic Surgery and Oncology, 
National Cancer Institute, Pascale Foundation, Naples, Italy. 
Gaetano.Rocco@btopenworld.com

The ever increasing life expectancy in the general population has prompted the 
multiplication of institutional reports focusing on the surgical management of 
the "elderly" with lung cancer. In fact, there is no consensus on the age 
cutoff, the risk assessment protocols, and, modalities for continuation of 
postsurgical care. Moreover, the definition of age in the biomolecular era is 
destined to alter our current concept of elderly surgical candidates by 
implementing prognostic group stratification based on genomic profiling. The 
latter, along with an unprecedented attempt at reducing functional thresholds 
for surgery, the introduction of a holistic approach to geriatrics, and, the 
consolidation and further refinement of minimally invasive surgery will 
represent a cultural revolution for the surgeon dealing with the elderly lung 
cancer patient.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2013.01.004
PMID: 23415247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Med Clin (Barc). 2013 May 4;140(9):406-8. doi: 10.1016/j.medcli.2012.11.029.
 Epub 2013 Feb 15.

[Surgical treatment of solitary adrenal metastases in patients with lung 
cancer].

[Article in Spanish]

Izquierdo-Vidal C(1), Molins L, Boada M, Cladellas E, Gómez-Caro A, Gimferrer 
JM.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía Torácica, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, España. 
cizquierdovidal@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Lung cancer (LC) can metastasize the adrenal gland. 
The objective of this study is to describe our experience in patients undergoing 
surgery for solitary adrenal metastasis of lung cancer in the past 11 years.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: It is a retrospective study of patients who underwent the 
surgical resection of the lung primary tumor and the adrenal metastases.
RESULTS: We included 7 patients with a median age of 64 years. Five patients 
underwent lobectomy, and 2, pneumonectomy with adjuvant therapy according to 
protocol. The single adrenal metastasis appeared synchronously in 3 patients and 
metachronously in 4, between 10 and 39 months (median 25 months). Two patients 
are alive and with good quality of life. The mean survival of patients was 41 
months (95% confidence interval [95% CI] 7-74) and median survival was 20 months 
(95% CI 7-32).
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that surgery adrenal metastases from lung cancer 
increases life expectancy in selected patients according to the available 
literature.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2012.11.029
PMID: 23415797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. J Phys Act Health. 2014 Mar;11(3):489-94. doi: 10.1123/jpah.2012-0165. Epub
2013  Feb 8.

The costs of physical inactivity in the Czech Republic in 2008.

Maresova K(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept of Institutional Economics, University of Economics, Prague, Czech 
Republic.

BACKGROUND: Several scientific studies estimate the burden of physical 
inactivity in different countries, yet in the Czech Republic, this kind of 
research is still missing. This paper represents one of the first attempts to 
quantify the costs of physical inactivity in the Czech Republic for 2008.
METHODS: The analysis, based on scientific literature review, uses the 
comparative risk assessment methodology and applies it on data available in the 
Czech Republic.
RESULTS: In 2008, the financial cost of physical inactivity to public health 
insurance companies was almost 700 million Kc, or 0.4%, of total healthcare 
costs. Furthermore, physical inactivity caused 2442, or 2.3%, of all deaths in 
2008 and 18,065, or 1.2%, of all disability-adjusted life years in 2004.
CONCLUSIONS: The costs of physical inactivity in the Czech Republic are 
considerable, yet slightly smaller than in other comparable studies. The 
obtained results could be used as an argument for policymakers when conceiving 
public or private health policy.

DOI: 10.1123/jpah.2012-0165
PMID: 23416762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. World Neurosurg. 2014 Feb;81(2):442.e11-5. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.01.130.
Epub  2013 Feb 14.

Drug-resistant cluster headache: long-term evaluation of pain control by 
posterior hypothalamic deep-brain stimulation.

Piacentino M(1), D'Andrea G(2), Perini F(3), Volpin L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Neurosurgery, San Bortolo Hospital, Vicenza, 
Italy. Electronic address: massimo.piacentino@ulssvicenza.it.
(2)Casa di Cura Villa Margherita, Arcugnano, Vicenza, Italy.
(3)Department of Neuroscience and Neurosurgery, San Bortolo Hospital, Vicenza, 
Italy.

Comment in
    World Neurosurg. 2014 Feb;81(2):306-8.
    World Neurosurg. 2014 Jul-Aug;82(1-2):68-9.

OBJECTIVE: On the basis of recent findings about the pathophysiology of cluster 
headache and through the experience reported in recent literature, we have 
reviewed the outcome of four patients affected by drug-resistant cluster 
headache treated in our department by posterior hypothalamic deep brain 
stimulation with a follow-up of more than 5 years.
METHODS: Between 2004 and 2006, we selected four patients affected by cluster 
headache. The diagnosis was based on the International Classification of 
Headache Disorders II criteria, and all patients were refractory to drug 
therapy. Under local anesthesia they underwent stereotactic positioning of a 
stimulation electrode within the posterior hypothalamus, ipsilateral to the site 
of pain. An intraoperative neurophysiological test stimulation was performed to 
assess possible side effects and symptoms related to hypothalamic neuronal 
activity. A second surgery was then performed with the patient under general 
anesthesia to implant the extension cable and the implantable pulse generator.
RESULTS: After 5 years of follow up, all patients had a valuable benefit with a 
reduction in episode frequency from 90% to 50% associated with a decrease in 
pain intensity perception.
CONCLUSION: The long-lasting pain reduction and the improvement in the patients' 
symptoms should be considered a real positive prospective, not only because 
there was uncertainty about the persistence of the beneficial effects at a 
long-term follow-up, but also for the improvement of the quality of life. The 
stimulation can restore important aspects concerning the psychic condition that 
very often constitutes an important limiting factor in normal daily life for 
this type of patient.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.01.130
PMID: 23416782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. J Neurooncol. 2013 May;112(3):455-60. doi: 10.1007/s11060-013-1076-8. Epub
2013  Feb 16.

Cognitive impairment in primary brain tumors outpatients: a prospective 
cross-sectional survey.

Zucchella C(1), Bartolo M, Di Lorenzo C, Villani V, Pace A.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Neurology, Regina Elena National Cancer Institute, via Elio Chianesi 
53, 00144 Rome, Italy. chiara.zucchella@gmail.com

Brain tumors and anti-cancer treatments can cause a wide range of cognitive 
deficits that in turn, being a major cause of disability, significantly affect 
patients' independence and quality of life. To evaluate the neurocognitive 
status of a non selected population of brain tumors outpatients, investigating 
the correlation with clinical and demographic variables. This prospective 
cross-sectional survey enrolled consecutive outpatients with a 
histopathologically confirmed diagnosis of brain tumor. All the patients were 
evaluated with a battery of standardized neuropsychological tests assessing 
language, memory, logical-executive functions, attention, visuo-constructional 
abilities. An univariate regression analysis was performed to assess the impact 
of socio-demographical and clinical variables on the presence of cognitive 
impairment. 147 patients (61F/86M, mean age 52.8 ± 13.3, mean schooling 12.7 ± 4 
were enrolled into the study. Out of the 147 patients evaluated, 80 (54.4 %) 
showed cognitive impairment: 43 (53.75 %) presented a multidomain impairment, 
while 37 (46.25 %) patients revealed cognitive deficits limited respectively to 
language (n:13, 16.25 %), memory (n:11, 13.75 %), attention (n:7, 8.75 %), 
logical-executive functions (n:5, 6.25 %), visuo-spatial abilities (n:1, 1.25 
%). At the regression analysis the variables significantly related to the 
development of cognitive impairment were age (p = 0.04), lesion side (p = 0.00), 
chemotherapy (p = 0.03). As advances in anti-cancer treatment have prolonged 
life expectancy of neuro-oncological patients, standard clinical endpoints can't 
be limited to just survival or progression free survival, but have to consider 
clinical benefits on both motor and cognitive function and in general quality of 
life. Hence evaluation of new therapeutic strategies should routinely include 
longitudinal neuropsychological assessment.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-013-1076-8
PMID: 23417320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Cardiovasc Drugs Ther. 2013 Aug;27(4):341-57. doi:
10.1007/s10557-013-6448-y.

Gastroprotection in low-dose aspirin users for primary and secondary prevention 
of ACS: results of a cost-effectiveness analysis including compliance.

de Groot NL(1), van Haalen HG, Spiegel BM, Laine L, Lanas A, Focks JJ, Siersema 
PD, van Oijen MG.

Author information:
(1)Department Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, PO Box (85500 internal code F02.618), 3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands. 
n.l.degroot-3@umcutrecht.nl

PURPOSE: Low-dose aspirin (ASA) increases the risk of upper gastrointestinal 
(GI) complications. Proton pump inhibitors (PPIs) reduce these upper GI side 
effects, yet patient compliance to PPIs is low. We determined the 
cost-effectiveness of gastroprotective strategies in low-dose ASA users 
considering ASA and PPI compliance.
METHODS: Using a Markov model we compared four strategies: no medication, ASA 
monotherapy, ASA+PPI co-therapy and a fixed combination of ASA and PPI for 
primary and secondary prevention of ACS. The risk of acute coronary syndrome 
(ACS), upper GI bleeding and dyspepsia was modeled as a function of compliance 
and the relative risk of developing these events while using medication. Costs, 
quality adjusted life years and number of ACS events were evaluated, applying a 
variable risk of upper GI bleeding. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: For our base case patients using ASA for primary prevention of ACS no 
medication was superior to ASA monotherapy. PPI co-therapy was cost-effective 
(incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER] €10,314) compared to no medication. 
In secondary prevention, PPI co-therapy was cost-effective (ICER €563) while the 
fixed combination yielded an ICER < €20,000 only in a population with elevated 
risk for upper GI bleeding or moderate PPI compliance. PPI co-therapy had the 
highest probability to be cost-effective in all scenarios. PPI use lowered the 
overall number of ACS.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering compliance, PPI co-therapy is likely to be 
cost-effective in patients taking low dose ASA for primary and secondary 
prevention of ACS, given low PPI prices. In secondary prevention, a fixed 
combination seems cost-effective in patients with elevated risk for upper GI 
bleeding or in those with moderate PPI compliance. Both strategies reduced the 
number of ACS compared to ASA monotherapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10557-013-6448-y
PMID: 23417566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2015 Mar;27(2):NP972-83. doi: 
10.1177/1010539513475650. Epub 2013 Feb 14.

The impact of health care resources, socioeconomic status, and demographics on 
life expectancy: a cross-country study in three Southeast Asian countries.

Chan MF(1).

Author information:
(1)National University of Singapore, Singapore nurcmf@nus.edu.sg.

This study aimed to examine the impact of health care resources, socioeconomic 
status, and demographic changes on life expectancy in Indonesia, Philippines, 
and Vietnam. This was a cross-country study to collect annual data (1980-2008) 
from each target country. Life expectancy was the dependent variable and health 
care resources, socioeconomic status, and demographics were the 3 main 
determinants. Structural equation modeling was employed, and the results 
indicate that the availability of more health care resources (Indonesia: 
coefficient = .47, P = .008; Philippines: coefficient = .48, P = .017; Vietnam: 
coefficient = .48, P = .004) and higher levels of socioeconomic advantages 
(Indonesia: coefficient = .41, P = .014; Vietnam: coefficient = .34, P = .026) 
are more likely to increase life expectancy. In contrast, demographic changes 
are more likely to increase life expectancy because of the wide range of health 
care resources. These findings suggest that more effort, particularly during 
economic downturns, should be put into removing the barriers that impede access 
to health care services and increasing preventive care for the population that 
currently has less access to health care in communities where there is a 
shortage of medical resources.

© 2013 APJPH.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539513475650
PMID: 23417906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Int J Health Plann Manage. 2014 Jan-Mar;29(1):43-51. doi: 10.1002/hpm.2164.
Epub  2013 Feb 18.

Health care expenditures from living longer--how much do they matter.

Gandjour A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Frankfurt School of Finance and Management, Frankfurt, Germany.
(2)Department of Public Health,Faculty of Medicine, Heinrich-Heine-University, 
Düsseldorf, Germany.

Health interventions have two major downstream cost effects, savings from 
reducing morbidity and expenditures from living longer. Anecdotal evidence 
suggests that many economic evaluations, particularly those that are 
trial-based, do not include health care costs from living longer. The purpose of 
this study was therefore to determine the bias from excluding life extension 
costs in economic evaluations. To this end, the impact of health changes on 
savings from preventing disease and costs of living longer was examined in the 
US Medicare population between 1998 and 2004. A state transition decision model 
with two health states (alive and dead) was built from an extended payer's 
perspective. It used Medicare expenditure data on survivors and decedents. 
Health changes were measured in terms of both morbidity and mortality reduction. 
The analysis shows that life extension costs cancel out savings from reducing 
morbidity. Users of economic evaluations may use this finding to estimate the 
bias when life extensions costs are not included in the analysis.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hpm.2164
PMID: 23418021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. J Trop Pediatr. 2013 Jun;59(3):195-202. doi: 10.1093/tropej/fmt001. Epub
2013  Feb 16.

Burden of surgical congenital anomalies in Kenya: a population-based study.

Wu VK(1), Poenaru D, Poley MJ.

Author information:
(1)BethanyKids at Kijabe Hospital, Kijabe, Kenya.

BACKGROUND: Congenital malformations are a significant component of the global 
burden of disease among children, accounting for 25 million disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs) worldwide. Unfortunately, efforts to estimate the burden of 
pediatric surgical disease in Africa are limited by the absence of 
population-based data. The objective of this study was to estimate both the 
prevalence and the disease burden of several common congenital surgical 
malformations among children in Kenya.
METHODS: Community volunteers randomly surveyed households at sites across 
Kenya. Caretakers were asked to identify on a photographic portfolio, several 
congenital malformations present among the children in their household, 
including club foot, hypospadias, hydrocephalus, spina bifida/encephalocele, 
cleft lip, bladder exstrophy and imperforate anus. DALYs were then calculated 
based on life expectancy tables and published and estimated disability weights 
for the conditions encountered.
RESULTS: The caregivers of 5559 children (54% female) were surveyed in 1909 
households, 56% of which were rural, 31% suburban and 12% urban. The overall 
prevalence of congenital malformations was 6.3 per 1000 children, amounting to 
54-120 DALYs per 1000 children, depending on the life tables used. The most 
prevalent condition in the survey was club foot, whereas spina bifida had the 
highest burden of disease.
DISCUSSION: This study is the first to document the prevalence of selected 
surgical congenital malformations among children in Kenya and the burden of 
disease associated with them. The results will serve to inform strategies aimed 
at reducing the unmet burden of surgical disease in resource-limited regions.

DOI: 10.1093/tropej/fmt001
PMID: 23418133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e55972. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055972. Epub 2013 Feb
13.

Inhibition of glycogen synthase kinase 3β promotes tight junction stability in 
brain endothelial cells by half-life extension of occludin and claudin-5.

Ramirez SH(1), Fan S, Dykstra H, Rom S, Mercer A, Reichenbach NL, Gofman L, 
Persidsky Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Temple University School of 
Medicine, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America. 
servio@temple.edu

Neuroinflammatory conditions often involve dysfunction of the Blood-Brain 
Barrier (BBB). Therefore, identifying molecular targets that can maintain 
barrier fidelity is of clinical importance. We have previously reported on the 
anti-inflammatory effects that glycogen synthase kinase 3β (GSK3β) inhibition 
has on primary human brain endothelial cells. Here we show that GSK3β inhibitors 
also promote barrier tightness by affecting tight junction (TJ) protein 
stability. Transendothelial electrical resistance (TEER) was used to evaluate 
barrier integrity with both pharmacological inhibitors and mutants of GSK3β. 
Inhibition of GSK3β produced a gradual and sustained increase in TEER (as much 
as 22% over baseline). Analysis of subcellular membrane fractions revealed an 
increase in the amount of essential tight junction proteins, occludin and 
claudin-5, but not claudin-3. This phenomenon was attributed to a decrease in TJ 
protein turnover and not transcriptional regulation. Using a novel cell-based 
assay, inactivation of GSK3β significantly increased the half-life of occludin 
and claudin-5 by 32% and 43%, respectively. A correlation was also established 
between the enhanced association of β-catenin with ZO-1 as a function of GSK3β 
inhibition. Collectively, our findings suggest the possibility of using GSK3β 
inhibitors as a means to extend the half-life of key tight junction proteins to 
promote re-sealing of the BBB during neuroinflammation.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055972
PMCID: PMC3572160
PMID: 23418486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


327. Am Fam Physician. 2013 Feb 15;87(4):274-8.

Breast cancer screening update.

Tria Tirona M(1).

Author information:
(1)Edwards Comprehensive Cancer Center, Huntington, West Virginia 25701, USA. 
maria.tirona@chhi.org

Breast cancer is the most common non-skin cancer and the second leading cause of 
cancer death in North American women. Mammography is the only screening test 
shown to reduce breast cancer-related mortality. There is general agreement that 
screening should be offered at least biennially to women 50 to 74 years of age. 
For women 40 to 49 years of age, the risks and benefits of screening should be 
discussed, and the decision to perform screening should take into consideration 
the individual patient risk, values, and comfort level of the patient and 
physician. Information is lacking about the effectiveness of screening in women 
75 years and older. The decision to screen women in this age group should be 
individualized, keeping the patient's life expectancy, functional status, and 
goals of care in mind. For women with an estimated lifetime breast cancer risk 
of more than 20 percent or who have a BRCA mutation, screening should begin at 
25 years of age or at the age that is five to 10 years younger than the earliest 
age that breast cancer was diagnosed in the family. Screening with magnetic 
resonance imaging may be considered in high-risk women, but its impact on breast 
cancer mortality is uncertain. Clinical breast examination plus mammography 
seems to be no more effective than mammography alone at reducing breast cancer 
mortality. Teaching breast self-examination does not improve mortality and is 
not recommended; however, women should be aware of any changes in their breasts 
and report them promptly.

PMID: 23418799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Biol Aujourdhui. 2012;206(4):249-61. doi: 10.1051/jbio/2012027. Epub 2013
Feb  19.

Nanovaccines : nanocarriers for antigen delivery.

Gonzalez-Aramundiz JV(1), Cordeiro AS, Csaba N, de la Fuente M, Alonso MJ.

Author information:
(1)NanoBioFar Group, Center for Research in Molecular Medicine and Chronic 
Diseases, Campus Vida, University of Santiago de Compostela USC, Avenida 15782 
Barcelona s/n, Santiago de Compostela, Spain.

Vaccination has become one of the most important health interventions of our 
times, revolutionizing health care, and improving the quality of life and life 
expectancy of millions all over the world. In spite of this, vaccine research 
remains a vast field for innovation and improvement. Indeed, the shift towards 
the use of sub-unit antigens, much safer but less immunogenic, and the 
recognized need to facilitate the access to vaccines in the global framework is 
currently stimulating the search for safe and efficient adjuvants and delivery 
technologies. Within this context, nanocarriers have gained particular attention 
over the last years and appear as one of the most promising strategies for 
antigen delivery. A number of biomaterials and technologies can be used to 
design nanovaccines that fulfill the requirements of new vaccination approaches, 
such as single-dose and transmucosal immunization, critical for achieving a 
widespread coverage while reducing the overall costs in relation to traditional 
forms of vaccination. Here we present an overview of the current state of 
nanocarriers for antigen delivery, developed with the perspective of 
contributing to the global vaccination goal.

© Société de Biologie, 2013.

DOI: 10.1051/jbio/2012027
PMID: 23419252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 Oct;68(10):1135-44. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glt016. Epub 2013 Feb 18.

Life-span extension from hypoxia in Caenorhabditis elegans requires both HIF-1 
and DAF-16 and is antagonized by SKN-1.

Leiser SF(1), Fletcher M, Begun A, Kaeberlein M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195. 
kaeber@u.washington.edu.

Stabilization of the hypoxia-inducible factor (HIF-1) protein extends longevity 
in Caenorhabditis elegans. However, stabilization of mammalian HIF-1α has been 
implicated in tumor growth and cancer development. Consequently, for the hypoxic 
response to benefit mammalian health, we must determine the components of the 
response that contribute to longevity, and separate them from those that cause 
harm in mammals. Here, we subject adult worms to low oxygen environments. We 
find that growth in hypoxia increases longevity in wild-type worms but not in 
animals lacking HIF-1 or DAF-16. Conversely, hypoxia shortens life span in 
combination with overexpression of the antioxidant stress response protein 
SKN-1. When combined with mutations in other longevity pathways or dietary 
restriction, hypoxia extends life span but to varying extents. Collectively, our 
results show that hypoxia modulates longevity in a complex manner, likely 
involving components in addition to HIF-1.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glt016
PMCID: PMC3779632
PMID: 23419779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Ophthalmology. 2013 Jun;120(6):1227-31. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.11.039.
Epub  2013 Feb 16.

One-year strabismus outcomes in the Infant Aphakia Treatment Study.

Bothun ED(1), Cleveland J, Lynn MJ, Christiansen SP, Vanderveen DK, Neely DE, 
Kruger SJ, Lambert SR; Infant Aphakic Treatment Study.

Collaborators: Lambert SR, Dubois L, MS ML, Bridgman B, Celano M, Cleveland J, 
Cotsonis G, Drews-Botsch C, Freret N, Lu L, Swanson S, Tutu-Gxashe T, Hartmann 
E, Edwards C, Busettini C, Hayley S, Lambert SR, Buckley EG, Plager DA, Wilson 
M, Lynn M, Dubois L, Drews-Botsch C, Hartmann E, Everett DF, Russell B, Ward M, 
Wilson M, Bozic M, Vanderveen DK, Mansfield TA, Miller KB, Christiansen SP, 
Bothun ED, Holleschau A, Jedlicka J, Winters P, Lang J, Traboulsi EI, Crowe S, 
Cimino HH, Yen KG, Castanes M, Sanchez A, York S, Wheeler DT, Stout AU, Rauch P, 
Beaudet K, Berg P, Lambert SR, Hutchinson AK, Dubois L, Robb R, Shainberg MJ, 
Buckley EG, Freedman SF, Duncan L, Phillips BW, Petrowski JT, Morrison D, COA 
SO, CO RB, Franklin C, Plager DA, Neely DE, Whitaker M, Bates D, Donaldson D, 
Kruger S, Tibi C, Vega S, Weakley DR, Stager DR Jr, Felius J, Dias C, Sager DL, 
Brantley T, Hardy R, Birch E, Cheng K, Hertle R, Kollman C, Yeargin-Allsopp M, 
McDowell C, Everett DF, Beck A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Neurosciences, University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 55455, USA. bothu003@umn.edu

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2014 Oct;121(10):e53.
    Ophthalmology. 2014 Oct;121(10):e53.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the characteristics of strabismus in infants who 
underwent cataract surgery with and without intraocular lens (IOL) implantation.
DESIGN: Secondary outcome analysis in a prospective, randomized clinical trial.
PARTICIPANTS: The Infant Aphakia Treatment Study is a randomized, multicenter (n 
= 12), clinical trial comparing treatment of aphakia with a primary IOL or 
contact lens in 114 infants with a unilateral congenital cataract.
INTERVENTION: Infants underwent cataract surgery with or without placement of an 
IOL.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The proportion of patients in whom strabismus developed 
during the first 12 months of follow-up was calculated using the life-table 
method and was compared across treatment groups and age strata using a log-rank 
test.
RESULTS: Strabismus developed within the first 12 months of follow-up in 38 
pseudophakic infants (life-table estimate, 66.7%) and 42 infants (life-table 
estimate, 74.5%) treated with contact lenses (P = 0.59). The younger cohort (<49 
days) at the time of surgery demonstrated less strabismus (29 of 50; life-table 
estimate, 58.0%) than the older cohort (≥ 49 days; 51 of 64; life-table 
estimate, 80.0%; P<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Intraocular lens placement does not prevent the early development 
of strabismus after congenital cataract surgery. However, strabismus was less 
likely to develop in infants whose cataract was removed at an earlier age.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial 
interest in any materials discussed in this article.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2012.11.039
PMCID: PMC4525476
PMID: 23419803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflicting relationship exists for any 
author


331. Eur J Epidemiol. 2013 Mar;28(3):203-4. doi: 10.1007/s10654-013-9778-y. Epub
2013  Feb 19.

Trends in life expectancy in Europe: one big explanation or many small ones?

McKee M, Legido-Quigley H, Piot P.

Comment on
    Eur J Epidemiol. 2013 Mar;28(3):229-40.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-013-9778-y
PMID: 23420498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Clin Apher. 2013 Feb;28(1):84-6. doi: 10.1002/jca.21259.

Therapeutic apheresis in the elderly: an update.

Abdel-Rahman EM(1), Balogun RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Virginia, 
Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA.

Therapeutic apheresis medicine comprises many procedures, the most common being 
therapeutic plasma exchange (TPE). There is wide acceptance and use of TPE in 
the treatment of disease conditions that cut across several organ systems in the 
body and affect patients of various age groups. Patients that are 65 years or 
older form a significant cohort with increasing need for TPE. This brief report 
addresses special considerations in this cohort with useful comparisons made 
with younger cohorts as presented in the Therapeutic Apheresis Academy at the 
University of Virginia in September 2012.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jca.21259
PMID: 23420599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Cleve Clin J Med. 2013 Jan;80 Electronic Suppl 1:eS2-6. doi: 
10.3949/ccjm.80.e-s1.02.

Improving patient outcomes with better care transitions: the role for home 
health.

Fleming MO(1), Haney TT.

Author information:
(1)Amedisys, Inc, 5959 S Sherwood Forest Boulevard, Baton Rouge, LA 70816, USA. 
michael.fleming@amedisys.com

Patients, particularly the old and frail, are especially vulnerable at the time 
of hospital discharge. Fragmentation of care, characterized by miscommunications 
and lack of follow-up, can lead to oversights in diagnosis and management. The 
frequent result is avoidable rehospitalization. Amedisys, a home health and 
hospice organization, created and tested a care transitions initiative for its 
impact on patients' quality of life and avoidable rehospitalizations. The 
initiative was carried out in three academic institutions with 12 months of 
observation. The results suggested reduced hospital readmissions and a critical 
role for the home health industry in improving patient outcomes and reducing 
costs.

DOI: 10.3949/ccjm.80.e-s1.02
PMID: 23420797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2013 Feb 19;8:29. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-8-29.

Cost-effectiveness of enzyme replacement therapy for Fabry disease.

Rombach SM(1), Hollak CE, Linthorst GE, Dijkgraaf MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, 
Academic Medical Centre, PO Box 22660, Amsterdam, DD 1100, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of enzyme replacement therapy (ERT) compared 
to standard medical care was evaluated in the Dutch cohort of patients with 
Fabry disease.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using a life-time 
state-transition model. Transition probabilities, effectiveness data and costs 
were derived from retrospective data and prospective follow-up of the Dutch 
study cohort consisting of males and females aged 5-78 years. Intervention with 
ERT (either agalsidase alfa or agalsidase beta) was compared to the standard 
medical care. The main outcome measures were years without end organ damage 
(renal, cardiac en cerebrovascular complications), quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs), and costs.
RESULTS: Over a 70 year lifetime, an untreated Fabry patient will generate 55.0 
years free of end-organ damage (53.5 years in males, 56.9 years in females) and 
48.6 QALYs (47.8 in males, 49.7 in females). Starting ERT in a symptomatic 
patient increases the number of years free of end-organ damage by 1.5 year (1.6 
in males, 1.3 in females), while the number of QALYs gained increases by a 
similar amount (1.7 in males, 1.4 in females). The costs of ERT starting in the 
symptomatic stage are between €9 - €10 million (£ 7.9 - £ 8.8 million, $13.0- 
$14.5 million) during a patient's lifetime. Consequently, the extra costs per 
additional year free of end-organ damage and the extra costs per additional QALY 
range from €5.5 - €7.5 million (£ 4.8 - £ 6.6 million, $ 8.0 - $ 10.8 million), 
undiscounted.
CONCLUSIONS: In symptomatic patients with Fabry disease, ERT has limited effect 
on quality of life and progression to end organ damage. The pharmaco-economic 
evaluation shows that this modest effectiveness drives the costs per QALY and 
the costs per year free of end-organ damage to millions of euros. 
Differentiation of patients who may benefit from ERT should be improved to 
enhance cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-8-29
PMCID: PMC3598841
PMID: 23421808 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Curr Opin Pulm Med. 2013 May;19(3):198-208. doi:
10.1097/MCP.0b013e32835f1d12.

Community-acquired pneumonia.

Irfan M(1), Farooqi J, Hasan R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Aga Khan University, Karachi, Pakistan.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Community-acquired pneumonia (CAP) contributes significantly 
to morbidity and mortality, especially in the elderly. Recent advances aimed at 
improving outcomes and reducing CAP disease burden are summarized.
RECENT FINDINGS: Emerging data suggests that newer CAP risk stratification 
indices based on disease severity hold promise in predicting intensive care 
need. Additional evidence supports a role of procalcitonin and 
pro-adrenomedullin as biomarkers of disease severity and for guiding 
antimicrobial therapy. New diagnostic tools have greatly contributed to early 
diagnosis and better-targeted therapy. There is increasing recognition of the 
role of coinfections in CAP. In patients with severe disease, therefore, current 
guidelines advise against monotherapy. Although inclusion of coverage for 
atypical pathogens in nonsevere CAP has been challenged, evidence suggests that 
such coverage is beneficial in patients with severe disease. Use of steroids as 
adjunctive therapy for CAP, however, is associated with complications and 
prolonged hospitalization. Updated prevention strategies include approval of 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) for adults at risk.
SUMMARY: Despite these developments research aimed at further reducing 
CAP-related morbidity and mortality is required. Increasing global life 
expectancy is likely to expand the at-risk population; therefore, research 
directed at CAP prevention in view of changing demography is essential.

DOI: 10.1097/MCP.0b013e32835f1d12
PMID: 23422417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Hormones (Athens). 2012 Oct-Dec;11(4):477-82. doi: 10.14310/horm.2002.1380.

What causes a prolactinoma to be aggressive or to become a pituitary carcinoma?

Phillips J(1), East HE, French SE, Melcescu E, Hamilton RD, Nicholas WC, Fratkin 
JF, Parent AD, Luzardo G, Koch CA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine, University of Mississippi 
Medical Center, Jackson, Mississippi 39216, USA.

INTRODUCTION: Malignant prolactinoma is an exceedingly rare endocrine tumor and 
cannot be diagnosed on histological grounds alone. Similarly to other 
neuroendocrine tumors such as pheochromocytoma, the mitoses index, Ki-67, p53, 
and others are utilized in helping understand whether a tumor is benign or 
malignant or to better predict tumor behavior. We here present the unusual case 
of an unfortunate young man with an aggressive prolactinoma, the complications 
of which led to his premature death.
CASE REPORT: A 25-year-old white man developed severe headaches, low energy, and 
decreased libido. A brain magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a 4 x 3 x 2 cm 
pituitary tumor invading the left cavernous sinus. Laboratory findings revealed 
elevated prolactin (470 ng/mL) and adrenocorticotropic hormone (ACTH, 82 pg/ml) 
and decreased total testosterone (176 ng/dl). Visual fields showed superior 
quadrantanopia in the left eye. Transsphenoidal pituitary resection was 
undertaken. Pathology revealed a prolactinoma with atypical cells, diffuse p53 
nuclear labeling, and a Ki-67 index of 23% (high). Postoperatively, prolactin 
remained elevated (725-891 ng/ml) and cabergoline was increased to 1 mg three 
times weekly, with serum prolactin further increasing to 3507 ng/ml five months 
postoperatively. Repeat MRI revealed extension of the tumor with optic chiasm 
compression and left orbit invasion. Because of acute left vision loss with 
ophthalmoplegia, an urgent left frontotemporal craniotomy and tumor resection 
were conducted. The Ki-67 index of the tumor was 24.8%, the mitotic figure 
immunostain phosphohistone-H3 positive. Sixty percent (60%) of tumor cells were 
positive for p53. Cabergoline was increased to 1 mg daily but prolactin remained 
elevated (770 ng/ml). The patient then underwent proton beam radiation to the 
area of concern involving the sella. Prolactin thereafter improved to 44 ng/ml. 
He then developed acute vision loss of the right eye with an MRI showing tumor 
in the right cavernous sinus. A 15 mm dural-based right temporal mass believed 
to be a metastasis was also noted. Following this scan, he was considered too 
high risk for debulking surgery and instead underwent gamma knife irradiation to 
the sella area. This shrank the right cavernous sinus tumor mass, while the 
right temporal mass increased in size. The patient developed blindness and 
left-sided weakness and required enteral feeding and tracheostomy after 
prolonged intubation. A trial of chemotherapy with temozolomide (350 mg daily 
for 5 days) near the end of his life was unsuccessful. He died on home hospice 
31 months after his first surgery.
CONCLUSION: Headaches, vision changes, and symptoms of androgen deficiency 
syndrome can be manifestations of an aggressive prolactinoma that might require 
surgery and additional medical therapy including cabergoline and temozolomide 
with an unpredictable time of survival.

DOI: 10.14310/horm.2002.1380
PMID: 23422771 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Brain. 2013 Mar;136(Pt 3):882-90. doi: 10.1093/brain/awt013. Epub 2013 Feb
18.

Exome sequencing reveals a novel Moroccan founder mutation in SLC19A3 as a new 
cause of early-childhood fatal Leigh syndrome.

Gerards M(1), Kamps R, van Oevelen J, Boesten I, Jongen E, de Koning B, Scholte 
HR, de Angst I, Schoonderwoerd K, Sefiani A, Ratbi I, Coppieters W, Karim L, de 
Coo R, van den Bosch B, Smeets H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Cell Biology, P.O. Box 616, 6200 MD Maastricht, 
the Netherlands.

Comment in
    Brain. 2014 Sep;137(Pt 9):e296.
    Brain. 2014 Sep;137(Pt 9):e295.

Leigh syndrome is an early onset, often fatal progressive neurodegenerative 
disorder caused by mutations in the mitochondrial or nuclear DNA. Until now, 
mutations in more than 35 genes have been reported to cause Leigh syndrome, 
indicating an extreme genetic heterogeneity for this disorder, but still only 
explaining part of the cases. The possibility of whole exome sequencing enables 
not only mutation detection in known candidate genes, but also the 
identification of new genes associated with Leigh syndrome in small families and 
isolated cases. Exome sequencing was combined with homozygosity mapping to 
identify the genetic defect in a Moroccan family with fatal Leigh syndrome in 
early childhood and specific magnetic resonance imaging abnormalities in the 
brain. We detected a homozygous nonsense mutation (c.20C>A; p.Ser7Ter) in the 
thiamine transporter SLC19A3. In vivo overexpression of wild-type SLC19A3 showed 
an increased thiamine uptake, whereas overexpression of mutant SLC19A3 did not, 
confirming that the mutation results in an absent or non-functional protein. 
Seventeen additional patients with Leigh syndrome were screened for mutations in 
SLC19A3 using conventional Sanger sequencing. Two unrelated patients, both from 
Moroccan origin and one from consanguineous parents, were homozygous for the 
same p.Ser7Ter mutation. One of these patients showed the same MRI abnormalities 
as the patients from the first family. Strikingly, patients receiving thiamine 
had an improved life-expectancy. One patient in the third family deteriorated 
upon interruption of the thiamine treatment and recovered after reinitiating. 
Although unrelated, all patients came from the province Al Hoceima in Northern 
Morocco. Based on the recombination events the mutation was estimated to have 
occurred 1250-1750 years ago. Our data shows that SLC19A3 is a new candidate for 
mutation screening in patients with Leigh syndrome, who might benefit from high 
doses of thiamine and/or biotin. Especially, Moroccan patients with Leigh 
syndrome should be tested for the c.20C>A founder mutation in SLC19A3.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awt013
PMID: 23423671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Qual Life Res. 2013 Nov;22(9):2617-24. doi: 10.1007/s11136-013-0369-x. Epub
2013  Feb 20.

Health-related quality of life in children with obstetrical brachial plexus 
palsy.

Akel BS(1), Öksüz Ç, Oskay D, Fırat T, Tarakcı E, Leblebicioğlu G.

Author information:
(1)Hacettepe University, Ankara, Turkey, semin@hacettepe.edu.tr.

PURPOSE: We aimed to determine the health-related quality of life (HRQL) of 
children with obstetrical brachial plexus palsy (OBPP) and examine its 
association with gender, age, injury level, injured side, and functional status.
METHODS: We conducted a controlled, cross-sectional study including 70 children 
with OBPP. Fifty-two age-matched children without any health problems were 
included as controls. HRQL was assessed with the short parent form of the Child 
Health Questionnaire (CHQ-PF28), and functional status was measured using the 
active movement scale (AMS).
RESULTS: Children with OBPP scored significantly lower on most of the CHQ-PF28 
subscales than the healthy controls (p < 0.05). Gender or age did not 
significantly affect scores in any domain (p > 0.05). CHQ-PF28 scores showed 
that there were significant differences according to the side of injury between 
groups, especially in the "parental impact-time" and "family activities" domains 
(p < 0.05). There were no statistically significant differences in CHQ-PF28 
scores between groups that had an upper trunk involvement and total injury 
groups (p > 0.05), except in the "bodily pain/discomfort" domain (p < 0.05). The 
AMS score was weakly to moderately correlated with the "mental health" and 
"parental impact-time" and "general health perceptions" domains.
CONCLUSION: The study demonstrated that children with OBPP have a poorer HRQL 
than their healthy peers. Side of injury, limitations in shoulder flexion, 
shoulder internal rotation, elbow flexion, elbow extension, and forearm 
supination were important factors affecting the HRQL of the children. The health 
concepts and factors discussed in the study can guide clinicians aiming to 
improve QoL of children with OBPP.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-013-0369-x
PMID: 23423758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. BMC Med. 2013 Feb 20;11:43. doi: 10.1186/1741-7015-11-43.

Dapagliflozin add-on to metformin in type 2 diabetes inadequately controlled 
with metformin: a randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled 102-week trial.

Bailey CJ(1), Gross JL, Hennicken D, Iqbal N, Mansfield TA, List JF.

Author information:
(1)Life and Health Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham B4 7ET, UK. 
c.j.bailey@aston.ac.uk

Erratum in
    BMC Med. 2013;11:193.

BACKGROUND: Management of type 2 diabetes with metformin often does not provide 
adequate glycemic control, thereby necessitating add-on treatment. In a 24-week 
clinical trial, dapagliflozin, an investigational sodium glucose cotransporter 2 
inhibitor, improved glycemic control in patients inadequately controlled with 
metformin. The present study is an extension that was undertaken to evaluate 
dapagliflozin as long-term therapy in this population.
METHODS: This was a long-term extension (total 102 weeks) of a 24-week phase 3, 
multicenter, randomized, placebo-controlled, double-blind, parallel-group trial. 
Patients were randomly assigned (1:1:1:1) to blinded daily treatment (placebo, 
or dapagliflozin 2.5 to 5, or 10 mg) plus open-label metformin (≥1,500 mg). The 
previously published primary endpoint was change from baseline in glycated 
hemoglobin (HbA1c) at 24 weeks. This paper reports the follow-up to week 102, 
with analysis of covariance model performed at 24 weeks with last observation 
carried forward; a repeated measures analysis was utilized to evaluate changes 
from baseline in HbA1c, fasting plasma glucose (FPG), and weight.
RESULTS: A total of 546 patients were randomized to 1 of the 4 treatments. The 
completion rate for the 78-week double-blind extension period was lower for the 
placebo group (63.5%) than for the dapagliflozin groups (68.3% to 79.8%). At 
week 102, mean changes from baseline HbA1c (8.06%) were +0.02% for placebo 
compared with -0.48% (P = 0.0008), -0.58% (P <0.0001), and -0.78% (P <0.0001) 
for dapagliflozin 2.5 to 5, and 10 mg, respectively. In addition, all 
dapagliflozin groups had sustained reductions from baseline in FPG (-1.07 to 
-1.47 mmol/l) and body weight (-1.10 to -1.74 kg) at 102 weeks, whereas 
increases were noted in placebo-treated patients for both of these outcomes. 
Events of hypoglycemia were rare and were not severe. Evidence suggestive of 
genital infection was reported in 11.7% to 14.6% of dapagliflozin patients and 
5.1% of placebo patients, with one related discontinuation (dapagliflozin 5 mg). 
Evidence suggestive of urinary tract infection was reported in 8.0% to 13.3% of 
dapagliflozin patients and 8.0% of placebo patients, with one related 
discontinuation (dapagliflozin 2.5 mg).
CONCLUSIONS: Dapagliflozin added to metformin for 102 weeks enabled sustained 
reductions in HbA1c, FPG, and weight without increased risk of hypoglycemia in 
patients with type 2 diabetes who were inadequately controlled on metformin 
alone.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00528879.

DOI: 10.1186/1741-7015-11-43
PMCID: PMC3606470
PMID: 23425012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. Radiat Oncol. 2013 Feb 20;8:38. doi: 10.1186/1748-717X-8-38.

Phase I study of hypofractionated intensity modulated radiation therapy with 
concurrent and adjuvant temozolomide in patients with glioblastoma multiforme.

Jastaniyah N(1), Murtha A, Pervez N, Le D, Roa W, Patel S, Mackenzie M, Fulton 
D, Field C, Ghosh S, Fallone G, Abdulkarim B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Radiation Oncology, Cross Cancer Institute and University of 
Alberta, 11560, University Avenue, Edmonton, AB, T6G 1Z2, Canada.

PURPOSE: To determine the safety and efficacy of hypofractionated intensity 
modulated radiation therapy (Hypo-IMRT) using helical tomotherapy (HT) with 
concurrent low dose temozolomide (TMZ) followed by adjuvant TMZ in patients with 
glioblastoma multiforme (GBM).
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Adult patients with GBM and KPS > 70 were prospectively 
enrolled between 2005 and 2007 in this phase I study. The Fibonacci dose 
escalation protocol was implemented to establish a safe radiation fractionation 
regimen. The protocol defined radiation therapy (RT) dose level I as 54.4 Gy in 
20 fractions over 4 weeks and dose level II as 60 Gy in 22 fractions over 4.5 
weeks. Concurrent TMZ followed by adjuvant TMZ was given according to the Stupp 
regimen. The primary endpoints were feasibility and safety of Hypo-IMRT with 
concurrent TMZ. Secondary endpoints included progression free survival (PFS), 
pattern of failure, overall survival (OS) and incidence of pseudoprogression. 
The latter was defined as clinical or radiological suggestion of tumour 
progression within three months of radiation completion followed by spontaneous 
recovery of the patient.
RESULTS: A total of 25 patients were prospectively enrolled with a median 
follow-up of 12.4 months. The median age at diagnosis was 53 years. Based on 
recursive partitioning analysis (RPA) criteria, 16%, 52% and 32% of the patients 
were RPA class III, class IV and class V, respectively. All patients completed 
concurrent RT and TMZ, and 19 patients (76.0%) received adjuvant TMZ. The median 
OS was 15.67 months (95% CI 11.56 - 20.04) and the median PFS was 6.7 months 
(95% CI 4.0 - 14.0). The median time between surgery and start of RT was 44 days 
(range of 28 to 77 days). Delaying radiation therapy by more than 6 weeks after 
surgery was an independent prognostic factor associated with a worse OS (4.0 vs. 
16.1 months, P = 0.027). All recurrences occurred within 2 cm of the original 
gross tumour volume (GTV). No cases of pseudoprogression were identified in our 
cohort of patients. Three patients tolerated dose level I with no dose limiting 
toxicity and hence the remainder of the patients were treated with dose level II 
according to the dose escalation protocol. Grade 3-4 hematological toxicity was 
limited to two patients and one patient developed Grade 4 Pneumocystis jiroveci 
pneumonia.
CONCLUSION: Hypo-IMRT using HT given with concurrent TMZ is feasible and safe. 
The median OS and PFS are comparable to those observed with conventional 
fractionation. Hypofractionated radiation therapy offers the advantage of a 
shorter treatment period which is imperative in this group of patients with 
limited life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1186/1748-717X-8-38
PMCID: PMC3599873
PMID: 23425509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
