PMID: 23435440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Ann Surg Oncol. 2013 Jul;20(7):2219-26. doi: 10.1245/s10434-013-2888-7. Epub
 2013 Feb 23.

Cost-effectiveness of radioguided occult lesion localization (ROLL) versus 
wire-guided localization (WGL) in breast conserving surgery for nonpalpable 
breast cancer: results from a randomized controlled multicenter trial.

Postma EL(1), Koffijberg H, Verkooijen HM, Witkamp AJ, van den Bosch MA, van 
Hillegersberg R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University Medical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands. e.l.postma@umcutrecht.nl

BACKGROUND: Accurate preoperative localization of nonpalpable breast cancer is 
essential to achieve complete resection. Radioguided occult lesion localization 
(ROLL) has been introduced as an alternative for wire-guided localization (WGL). 
Although efficacy of ROLL has been established in a randomized controlled trial, 
cost-effectiveness of ROLL compared with WGL is not yet known. The objective of 
this study was to determine whether ROLL has acceptable cost-effectiveness 
compared with WGL.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was performed along with a randomized controlled 
trial (ClinicalTrials.gov, No. NCT00539474). Women (>18 years) with 
histologically proven nonpalpable breast cancer and eligible for breast 
conserving treatment with sentinel node procedure were randomized to ROLL (n = 
162) or WGL (n = 152). Empirical data on direct medical costs were collected, 
and changes in quality of life were measured over a 6-month period. 
Bootstrapping was used to assess uncertainty in cost-effectiveness estimates, 
and sensitivity of the results to the missing data approach was investigated.
RESULTS: In total, 314 patients with 316 invasive breast cancers were enrolled. 
On average ROLL required the same time as WGL for the surgical procedure (119 vs 
118 min), resulted in a 7 % higher reinterventions risk, and 13 % more 
complications. Quality of life effects were similar (difference 0.00 QALYs 95 % 
CI (-0.04-0.05). Total costs were also similar for ROLL and WGL (+<euro>26 per 
patient 95 % CI <euro>-250-311).
CONCLUSION: ROLL is comparable to WGL with respect to both costs and quality of 
life effects as measured with the EQ5D and will therefore not lead to more 
cost-effective medical care.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-013-2888-7
PMID: 23435568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Ann Ig. 2013 Jan-Feb;25(1):31-42. doi: 10.7416/ai.2013.1904.

Analytical techniques to study microbial biofilm on abiotic surfaces: pros and 
cons of the main techniques currently in use.

Pantanella F(1), Valenti P, Natalizi T, Passeri D, Berlutti F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Infectious Diseases, Sapienza University of 
Rome, Italy. fabrizio.pantanella@uniroma1.it

Biofilm is a bacterial lifestyle widespread in microbial world and represents a 
concern in health care. Despite the great life expectancy related to advanced 
health care, the increasing numbers of biofilm-mediated infections remain a 
significant public health challenge. Moreover, the problem of biofilm-mediated 
infections becomes much more severe when biofilm colonizes medical devices and 
biomaterials. The public health risk due to microbial biofilm-related infections 
is a concern that requires full attention. However, the complexity of biofilm 
makes difficult its exhaustive analysis. Although biofilm represents a major 
challenge in both microbiological and hygiene areas, at now methods aimed to 
analyse biofilm formation and development are not standardized yet. Different 
methods have been employed to qualitatively and quantitatively evaluate biofilm 
each of which is useful to estimate a peculiar aspect of biofilm lifestyle. In 
the present review, fifteen assays for the qualitative and quantitative 
evaluation of bacterial biofilm colonizing abiotic substrates, such as medical 
devices, prosthesis or surfaces for food production together with advantages and 
limitations of each method were described and compared. Some methods are suited 
to quantify biofilm matrix while others are capable to evaluate both living and 
dead cells or quantify exclusively viable cells in biofilm. In particular, 
colorimetric methods to evaluate biofilm matrix (crystal violet; 1,9-dimethyl 
methylen blue and fluorescein-di-acetate methods) or viable cells (LIVE/DEAD 
BacLight, BioTimer Assay, resazurin, tetrazolium hydroxide salt methods) and 
genetic methods to estimate the bacterial population (PCR and FISH) are 
reported. Moreover, a section is dedicated to examine the performances of 
advanced microscopic techniques employed to study microbial biofilms (mass 
spectrometry; confocal laser scanning microscopy; Raman spectroscopy and 
electron microscopy). Because of its complexity, an exhaustive study of biofilm 
requires a combination of different experimental approaches as biochemical, 
genetic or physical ones.

DOI: 10.7416/ai.2013.1904
PMID: 23435778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. J Nucl Cardiol. 2013 Apr;20(2):177-8. doi: 10.1007/s12350-013-9692-4.

The United States has lower life expectancy than other developed nations, 
despite having highest health care costs.

Beller GA.

DOI: 10.1007/s12350-013-9692-4
PMID: 23436137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Aging Cell. 2013 Jun;12(3):410-4. doi: 10.1111/acel.12061. Epub 2013 Mar 27.

Dietary restriction of rodents decreases aging rate without affecting initial 
mortality rate -- a meta-analysis.

Simons MJ(1), Koch W, Verhulst S.

Author information:
(1)Behavioural Biology, Centre for Life Sciences, University of Groningen, PO 
Box 11103, Groningen, 9700CC, The Netherlands. mirresimons@gmail.com

Dietary restriction (DR) extends lifespan in multiple species from various taxa. 
This effect can arise via two distinct but not mutually exclusive ways: a change 
in aging rate and/or vulnerability to the aging process (i.e. initial mortality 
rate). When DR affects vulnerability, this lowers mortality instantly, whereas a 
change in aging rate will gradually lower mortality risk over time. Unraveling 
how DR extends lifespan is of interest because it may guide toward understanding 
the mechanism(s) mediating lifespan extension and also has practical 
implications for the application of DR. We reanalyzed published survival data 
from 82 pairs of survival curves from DR experiments in rats and mice by fitting 
Gompertz and also Gompertz-Makeham models. The addition of the Makeham parameter 
has been reported to improve the estimation of Gompertz parameters. Both models 
separate initial mortality rate (vulnerability) from an age-dependent increase 
in mortality (aging rate). We subjected the obtained Gompertz parameters to a 
meta-analysis. We find that DR reduced aging rate without affecting 
vulnerability. The latter contrasts with the conclusion of a recent analysis of 
a largely overlapping data set, and we show how the earlier finding is due to a 
statistical artifact. Our analysis indicates that the biology underlying the 
life-extending effect of DR in rodents likely involves attenuated accumulation 
of damage, which contrasts with the acute effect of DR on mortality reported for 
Drosophila. Moreover, our findings show that the often-reported correlation 
between aging rate and vulnerability does not constrain changing aging rate 
without affecting vulnerability simultaneously.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd and the Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12061
PMID: 23438200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. J Psychosom Res. 2013 Mar;74(3):197-205. doi:
10.1016/j.jpsychores.2013.01.001.  Epub 2013 Jan 29.

Mindfulness-based cognitive therapy for patients with medically unexplained 
symptoms: a cost-effectiveness study.

van Ravesteijn H(1), Grutters J, olde Hartman T, Lucassen P, Bor H, van Weel C, 
van der Wilt GJ, Speckens A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary and Community Care, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical 
Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. h.vanravesteijn@psy.umcn.nl

OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to assess cost-effectiveness of mindfulness-based 
cognitive therapy (MBCT) compared with enhanced usual care (EUC) in treating 
patients with persistent medically unexplained symptoms(MUS).
METHODS: A full economic evaluation with a one year time horizon was performed 
from a societal perspective. Costs were assessed by prospective cost diaries. 
Health-related Quality of Life was measured using SF-6D. Outcomes were costs per 
Quality-Adjusted Life Year (QALY). Bootstrap simulations were performed to 
obtain mean costs, QALY scores and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs).
RESULTS: MBCT participants (n=55) had lower hospital costs and higher mental 
health care costs than patients who received EUC (n=41). Mean bootstrapped costs 
for MBCT were €6269, and €5617 for EUC (95% uncertainty interval for difference: 
-€1576; €2955). QALYs were 0.674 for MBCT and 0.663 for EUC. MBCT was on average 
more effective and more costly than EUC, resulting in an ICER of €56,637 per 
QALY gained. At a willingness to pay of €80,000 per QALY, the probability that 
MBCT is cost-effective is 57%.
CONCLUSION: Total costs were not statistically significantly different between 
MBCT and EUC. However, MBCT seemed to cause a shift in the use of health care 
resources as mental health care costs were higher and hospital care costs lower 
in the MBCT condition. Due to the higher drop-out in the EUC condition the 
cost-effectiveness of MBCT might have been underestimated. The shift in health 
care use might lead to more effective care for patients with persistent MUS. The 
longer-term impact of MBCT for patients with persistent MUS needs to be further 
studied.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychores.2013.01.001
PMID: 23438709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. HSR Proc Intensive Care Cardiovasc Anesth. 2012;4(2):83-7.

Stented bioprostheses in aortic position.

Cremer J(1), Schöttler J, Petzina R, Hoffmann G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Christian-Albrechts-University of Kiel, 
Kiel, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Biological stented prostheses are currently the main type of 
prosthetic valve used for aortic valve replacement. The ratio of bioprotheses to 
mechanical prostheses has switched in the last 15 years; the percentage of 
biological  prostheses implanted has risen from 30 % to 85 %. Moreover the total 
number of implanted stented bioprostheses remained stable over the last years 
despite competing procedures like stentless prostheses or transcatheter aortic 
valve implantation.
METHODS: A literature search of all published aortic valve replacement studies 
was performed from January 2000 through May 2012.
RESULTS: The recommendations guiding the type of heart valve replacement have 
been revised in recent years. Of particular interest are the new generation of 
biological prostheses with extended durability, a decrease in mortality of 
reoperation and an increase in life expectancy. Comorbidities such as chronic 
renal insufficiency or chronic atrial fibrillation are no longer 
contraindications to bioprostheses.
CONCLUSION: Overall, even in face of more innovative biological alternatives the 
implantation of stented bioprostheses is still a very interesting option and 
represents actually the most frequent valve implantation technique for aortic 
stenosis.

PMCID: PMC3484933
PMID: 23439380

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest None declared.


374. HSR Proc Intensive Care Cardiovasc Anesth. 2009;1(2):6-19.

Cardiac anesthesia and surgery in geriatric patients: epidemiology, current 
surgical outcomes, and future directions.

Castillo JG(1), Silvay G, Chikwe J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery Mount Sinai Medical Center New York, NY, 
United States.

The mean life expectancy of the population of the United States is projected to 
increase from 78.3 years at present to over 81 years in 2025, with a concomitant 
increase in the percentage of the population over the age of 75 years. Elderly 
patients are more likely to present with valvular and coronary artery disease 
than younger patients, and as better perioperative management contributes to 
improving post-operative outcomes and lower referral thresholds, very elderly 
patients form an increasingly large proportion of the cardiac surgical 
population. This article summarizes the impact of age-related pathophysiologic 
changes on patients' response to cardiac surgery and anesthesia, outlines useful 
perioperative strategies in this age group, and reviews the literature on 
outcomes after valvular and coronary in elderly patients.

PMCID: PMC3484548
PMID: 23439851

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest No conflict of interest 
acknowledged by the authors.


375. Front Psychol. 2013 Jan 11;3:610. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2012.00610. eCollection
 2012.

Expectancy learning from probabilistic input by infants.

Romberg AR(1), Saffran JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Waisman Center, University of Wisconsin - 
Madison Madison, WI, USA.

Across the first few years of life, infants readily extract many kinds of 
regularities from their environment, and this ability is thought to be central 
to development in a number of domains. Numerous studies have documented infants' 
ability to recognize deterministic sequential patterns. However, little is known 
about the processes infants use to build and update representations of structure 
in time, and how infants represent patterns that are not completely predictable. 
The present study investigated how infants' expectations fora simple structure 
develope over time, and how infants update their representations with new 
information. We measured 12-month-old infants' anticipatory eye movements to 
targets that appeared in one of two possible locations. During the initial phase 
of the experiment, infants either saw targets that appeared consistently in the 
same location (Deterministic condition) or probabilistically in either location, 
with one side more frequent than the other (Probabilistic condition). After this 
initial divergent experience, both groups saw the same sequence of trials for 
the rest of the experiment. The results show that infants readily learn from 
both deterministic and probabilistic input, with infants in both conditions 
reliably predicting the most likely target location by the end of the 
experiment. Local context had a large influence on behavior: infants adjusted 
their predictions to reflect changes in the target location on the previous 
trial. This flexibility was particularly evident in infants with more variable 
prior experience (the Probabilistic condition). The results provide some of the 
first data showing how infants learn in real time.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2012.00610
PMCID: PMC3578736
PMID: 23439947


376. HSR Proc Intensive Care Cardiovasc Anesth. 2010;2(3):177-90.

Open repair of descending thoracic aneurysms.

Chiesa R(1), Tshomba Y, Civilini E, Marone EM, Bertoglio L, Baccellieri D, Coppi 
G, Logaldo D, Melissano G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Università Vita-Salute San Raffaele, Milan, 
Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Current strategies for operative treatment of a thoracic aortic 
aneurysm consist of open repair with surgical graft replacement or endovascular 
exclusion. To reduce mortality and morbidity of open repair, a multimodal 
approach has gradually evolved by maximizing organ protection.
METHODS: On a total of 1108 patients treated in our Center from 1993 for 
pathology involving the thoracic aorta, we reviewed the prospectively collected 
data of 194 consecutive patients who underwent open thoracic aortic aneurysm 
repair, 104 (54%) for degenerative aneurysms, 65 (34%) for dissections, 25 (12%) 
for other pattern of disease. Left Heart Bypass was used in 82% of cases, clamp 
and sew technique in 16%, hypotermic circulatory arrest in 2%.
RESULTS: Overall perioperative mortality was 4.1%. The rate of pulmonary 
complications was 8.8%. The rate of cardiac complications, i.e. new onset 
myocardial necrosis demonstrated by positive blood tests, was 6.2%. The rate of 
renal complications was 7.2%. Cerebrovascular accident, defined as a new 
neurologic deficit lasting more than 24 hours confirmed by imaging, occurred in 
2.0% of patients. The rate of spinal cord ischemia, manifesting either as 
paraplegia or paraparesis, was 4.6%.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality and morbidity rates of open thoracic aortic aneurysm 
repair are currently satisfactory especially in fit patients. In order to define 
surgical indications and the role of endovascular repair, consideration of age 
of the patient, comorbidity, symptoms, life expectancy, likely quality of life 
(if asymptomatic), aortic diameter, aneurysm morphology, aneurysm extent, 
suitability of landing zones, and operator experience are all distinctly 
relevant.

PMCID: PMC3484579
PMID: 23440685

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest No conflict of interest 
acknoweledged by the authors.


377. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Jan 31;(1):CD004448. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD004448.pub4.

Phytomedicines (medicines derived from plants) for sickle cell disease.

Oniyangi O(1), Cohall DH.

Author information:
(1)Paediatrics Department, National Hospital, Abuja, Nigeria. 
seyioniyangi@yahoo.co.uk

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015;(4):CD004448.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;(10):CD004448.

BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease (SCD), a common recessively inherited 
haemoglobin disorder, affects people from sub-Saharan Africa, the Middle East, 
Mediterranean basin, Indian subcontinent, Caribbean and South America. It is 
associated with complications and a reduced life expectancy. Phytomedicines 
(medicine derived from plants in their original state) encompass many of the 
plant remedies from traditional healers which the populations most affected 
would encounter. There has been little systematic appraisal of their benefits.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and risks of phytomedicines in people with 
SCD of all types, of any age, in any setting.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
Group Haemoglobinopathies Trials Register, the International Standard Randomised 
Controlled Trial Number Register (ISRCTN) and the Allied and Complimentary 
Medicine Database (AMED).Dates of most recent searches:Haemoglobinopathies 
Trials Register: 05 July 2012;ISRCTN: 28 December 2009;AMED: August 2003.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised or quasi-randomised trials with participants of 
all ages with SCD, in all settings, comparing the administration of 
phytomedicines, by any mode to placebo or conventional treatment, including 
blood transfusion and hydroxyurea.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Both authors independently assessed trial quality 
and extracted data.
MAIN RESULTS: Two trials (182 participants) and two phytomedicines Niprisan(®) 
(also known as Nicosan(®)) and Ciklavit(®) were included. The Phase IIB 
(pivotal) trial suggests that Niprisan(®) was effective in reducing episodes of 
severe painful SCD crisis over a six-month period. It did not affect the risk of 
severe complications or the level of anaemia. No serious adverse effects were 
reported. The single trial of Cajanus cajan (Ciklavit(®)) reported a possible 
benefit to individuals with painful crises, and a possible adverse effect 
(non-significant) on the level of anaemia.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: While Niprisan(®) appeared to be safe and effective in 
reducing severe painful crises over a six-month follow-up period, further trials 
are required to assess its role in the management of people with SCD and the 
results of its multicentre trials are awaited. Currently no conclusions can be 
made regarding the efficacy of Ciklavit(®). Based on the published results for 
Niprisan(®) and in view of the limitations in data collection and analysis of 
both trials, phytomedicines may have a potential beneficial effect in reducing 
painful crises in SCD. This needs to be further validated in future trials. More 
trials are required on the safety and efficacy of phytomedicines used in 
managing SCD.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004448.pub4
PMID: 23440792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Jan 31;2013(1):CD004720. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD004720.pub3.

Screening for prostate cancer.

Ilic D(1), Neuberger MM, Djulbegovic M, Dahm P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology&PreventiveMedicine, School of 
PublicHealth&PreventiveMedicine,MonashUniversity,Melbourne,Australia. 
dragan.ilic@monash.edu.

Comment in
    Br J Gen Pract. 2018 Nov;68(676):541-542.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2006;(3):CD004720.

BACKGROUND: Any form of screening aims to reduce disease-specific and overall 
mortality, and to improve a person's future quality of life. Screening for 
prostate cancer has generated considerable debate within the medical and broader 
community, as demonstrated by the varying recommendations made by medical 
organizations and governed by national policies. To better inform individual 
patient decision-making and health policy decisions, we need to consider the 
entire body of data from randomised controlled trials (RCTs) on prostate cancer 
screening summarised in a systematic review. In 2006, our Cochrane review 
identified insufficient evidence to either support or refute the use of routine 
mass, selective, or opportunistic screening for prostate cancer. An update of 
the review in 2010 included three additional trials. Meta-analysis of the five 
studies included in the 2010 review concluded that screening did not 
significantly reduce prostate cancer-specific mortality. In the past two years, 
several updates to studies included in the 2010 review have been published 
thereby providing the rationale for this update of the 2010 systematic review.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether screening for prostate cancer reduces prostate 
cancer-specific mortality or all-cause mortality and to assess its impact on 
quality of life and adverse events.
SEARCH METHODS: An updated search of electronic databases (PROSTATE register, 
the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), MEDLINE, EMBASE, 
CANCERLIT, and the NHS EED) was performed, in addition to handsearching of 
specific journals and bibliographies, in an effort to identify both published 
and unpublished trials.
SELECTION CRITERIA: All RCTs of screening versus no screening for prostate 
cancer were eligible for inclusion in this review.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The original search (2006) identified 99 
potentially relevant articles that were selected for full-text review. From 
these citations, two RCTs were identified as meeting the inclusion criteria. The 
search for the 2010 version of the review identified a further 106 potentially 
relevant articles, from which three new RCTs were included in the review. A 
total of 31 articles were retrieved for full-text examination based on the 
updated search in 2012. Updated data on three studies were included in this 
review. Data from the trials were independently extracted by two authors.
MAIN RESULTS: Five RCTs with a total of 341,342 participants were included in 
this review. All involved prostate-specific antigen (PSA) testing, with or 
without digital rectal examination (DRE), though the interval and threshold for 
further evaluation varied across trials. The age of participants ranged from 45 
to 80 years and duration of follow-up from 7 to 20 years. Our meta-analysis of 
the five included studies indicated no statistically significant difference in 
prostate cancer-specific mortality between men randomised to the screening and 
control groups (risk ratio (RR) 1.00, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.86 to 
1.17). The methodological quality of three of the studies was assessed as posing 
a high risk of bias. The European Randomized Study of Screening for Prostate 
Cancer (ERSPC) and the US Prostate, Lung, Colorectal and Ovarian (PLCO) Cancer 
Screening Trial were assessed as posing a low risk of bias, but provided 
contradicting results. The ERSPC study reported a significant reduction in 
prostate cancer-specific mortality (RR 0.84, 95% CI 0.73 to 0.95), whilst the 
PLCO study concluded no significant benefit (RR 1.15, 95% CI 0.86 to 1.54). The 
ERSPC was the only study of the five included in this review that reported a 
significant reduction in prostate cancer-specific mortality, in a pre-specified 
subgroup of men aged 55 to 69 years of age. Sensitivity analysis for overall 
risk of bias indicated no significant difference in prostate cancer-specific 
mortality when referring to the meta analysis of only the ERSPC and PLCO trial 
data (RR 0.96, 95% CI 0.70 to 1.30). Subgroup analyses indicated that prostate 
cancer-specific mortality was not affected by the age at which participants were 
screened. Meta-analysis of four studies investigating all-cause mortality did 
not determine any significant differences between men randomised to screening or 
control (RR 1.00, 95% CI 0.96 to 1.03). A diagnosis of prostate cancer was 
significantly greater in men randomised to screening compared to those 
randomised to control (RR 1.30, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.65). Localised prostate cancer 
was more commonly diagnosed in men randomised to screening (RR 1.79, 95% CI 1.19 
to 2.70), whilst the proportion of men diagnosed with advanced prostate cancer 
was significantly lower in the screening group compared to the men serving as 
controls (RR 0.80, 95% CI 0.73 to 0.87). Screening resulted in a range of harms 
that can be considered minor to major in severity and duration. Common minor 
harms from screening include bleeding, bruising and short-term anxiety. Common 
major harms include overdiagnosis and overtreatment, including infection, blood 
loss requiring transfusion, pneumonia, erectile dysfunction, and incontinence. 
Harms of screening included false-positive results for the PSA test and 
overdiagnosis (up to 50% in the ERSPC study). Adverse events associated with 
transrectal ultrasound (TRUS)-guided biopsies included infection, bleeding and 
pain. No deaths were attributed to any biopsy procedure. None of the studies 
provided detailed assessment of the effect of screening on quality of life or 
provided a comprehensive assessment of resource utilization associated with 
screening (although preliminary analyses were reported).
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Prostate cancer screening did not significantly decrease 
prostate cancer-specific mortality in a combined meta-analysis of five RCTs. 
Only one study (ERSPC) reported a 21% significant reduction of prostate 
cancer-specific mortality in a pre-specified subgroup of men aged 55 to 69 
years. Pooled data currently demonstrates no significant reduction in prostate 
cancer-specific and overall mortality. Harms associated with PSA-based screening 
and subsequent diagnostic evaluations are frequent, and moderate in severity. 
Overdiagnosis and overtreatment are common and are associated with 
treatment-related harms. Men should be informed of this and the demonstrated 
adverse effects when they are deciding whether or not to undertake screening for 
prostate cancer. Any reduction in prostate cancer-specific mortality may take up 
to 10 years to accrue; therefore, men who have a life expectancy less than 10 to 
15 years should be informed that screening for prostate cancer is unlikely to be 
beneficial. No studies examined the independent role of screening by DRE.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD004720.pub3
PMCID: PMC8406915
PMID: 23440794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None.


379. Health Econ. 2013 Dec;22(12):1405-16. doi: 10.1002/hec.2889. Epub 2013 Feb
26.

Axiomatic foundations for cost-effectiveness analysis.

Canning D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, USA.

We show that individual utilities can be measured in units of healthy life 
years. Social preferences over these life metric utilities are assumed to 
satisfy the Pareto principle, anonymity, and invariance to a change in origin. 
These axioms generate a utilitarian social welfare function implying the use of 
cost-effectiveness analysis in ordering health projects, based on maximizing the 
healthy years equivalents gained from a fixed health budget. For projects 
outside the health sector, our cost-effectiveness axioms imply a form of 
cost-benefit analysis where both costs and benefits are measured in equivalent 
healthy life years.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2889
PMID: 23440955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. J Med Econ. 2013;16(5):691-700. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.779921. Epub 2013
Mar  15.

Cost of skeletal-related events in European patients with solid tumours and bone 
metastases: data from a prospective multinational observational study.

Hechmati G(1), Cure S, Gouépo A, Hoefeler H, Lorusso V, Lüftner D, Duran I, 
Garzon-Rodriguez C, Ashcroft J, Wei R, Ghelani P, Bahl A.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, Amgen (Europe) GmbH, Zug, Switzerland. 
guy.hechmati@amgen.com

OBJECTIVES: Patients with bone metastases often experience skeletal-related 
events (SREs: radiation or surgery to bone, pathologic fracture, and spinal cord 
compression). This study examined health resource utilization and costs 
associated with SREs.
METHODS: Data presented are from the European cohort (Germany, Italy, Spain, and 
the UK) of patients with solid tumours enrolled in a multi-national, 
prospective, observational study in patients with solid tumours or multiple 
myeloma. Patients with Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group score 0-2 and life 
expectancy ≥6 months, who experienced an SRE up to 97 days before enrolment, 
were eligible. Health resource utilization associated with SREs (including 
number/length of inpatient stays, numbers of procedures and outpatient visits) 
were collected through chart review for up to 97 days before enrolment and 
prospectively during follow-up. Country-specific cost calculations were 
performed.
RESULTS: In total, 478 eligible patients contributed 893 SREs to this analysis. 
Radiation to bone occurred most frequently (66% of total). Spinal cord 
compression (7%) and surgery to bone (10%) were the least common events, but 
most likely to require inpatient stays. The most costly SREs were also spinal 
cord compression (mean per SRE across countries, €4884-€12,082) and surgery to 
bone (€3348-€9407). Inpatient stays were the main cost drivers.
LIMITATIONS: Health resource utilization used to calculate the costs associated 
with SREs may have been under-estimated as a result of exclusion of patients 
with low performance status or life expectancy; unavailable information and 
exclusion of resource consumption associated with pain. Thus, the estimate of 
associated costs is likely to be conservative.
CONCLUSIONS: SREs result in considerable health resource utilization, imposing a 
substantial financial burden driven by inpatient stays. Treatments that 
prevent/delay SREs may help ease this burden, thereby providing cost savings 
across European healthcare systems.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.779921
PMID: 23441975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. Aging Cell. 2013 Jun;12(3):381-7. doi: 10.1111/acel.12059. Epub 2013 Apr 19.

Cytomegalovirus infection is associated with increased mortality in the older 
population.

Savva GM(1), Pachnio A, Kaul B, Morgan K, Huppert FA, Brayne C, Moss PA; Medical 
Research Council Cognitive Function and Ageing Study.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Institute of Public Health, 
University of Cambridge, Robinson Way, Cambridge, CB20SR, UK.

Cytomegalovirus (CMV) is a common herpesvirus infection and stimulates the 
expansion of very large numbers of CMV-specific T cells that reduce the CD4/CD8 
ratio and suppress the number of naïve T cells. CMV infection has been 
associated with frailty and impaired survival. We investigated the correlates of 
CMV and the impact of the CMV infection on mortality within a cohort of 511 
individuals aged at least 65 years who were followed up for 18 years. The mean 
age of the participants was 74 years of which 70% were CMV-seropositive. CMV was 
strongly linked to socio-economic status, and CMV infection increased the annual 
mortality rate by 42% (Hazard ratio = 1.42, 95% CI: 1.11-1.76 after adjusting 
for age, sex and baseline socio-economic and health variables) corresponding to 
3.7 years lower life expectancy from age 65. Infection was associated with a 
near doubling of cardiovascular deaths, whereas there was no increase in 
mortality from other causes. These results show that CMV infection markedly 
increases the mortality rate in healthy older individuals due to an excess of 
vascular deaths. These findings may have significant implications for the study 
of immune senescence and if confirmed more generally could have important 
implications for measures to optimize the health of the elderly.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd and the Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12059
PMID: 23442093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Gerontologist. 2013 Dec;53(6):898-906. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnt002. Epub 2013
Feb  26.

Why gerontologists should care about empirical research on religion and health: 
transdisciplinary perspectives.

George LK(1), Kinghorn WA, Koenig HG, Gammon P, Blazer DG.

Author information:
(1)*Address correspondence to Harold G. Koenig, Center for Spirituality, 
Theology and Health, Box 3400, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC 27710. 
E-mail: Harold.Koenig@duke.edu.

A large volume of empirical research has accumulated on the relationship between 
religion/spirituality (R/S) and health since the year 2000, much of it involving 
older adults. The purpose of this article is to discuss how this body of 
existing research findings has important messages or important new insights for 
gerontologists; clinicians in medicine, psychiatry, and psychology; 
sociologists; and theologians. In other words, what contributions do the 
research findings on R/S and health make to these disciplines? In this article, 
experts from each of the aforementioned disciplines discuss what contributions 
this research can make to their own area of study and expertise. Besides 
emphasizing the broad relevance of research on R/S and health to many clinical 
and academic audiences in gerontology (i.e., addressing the "so what" question), 
this discussion provides clues about where R/S research might focus on in the 
future.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnt002
PMID: 23442382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2013 May;107(5):324-7. doi: 10.1093/trstmh/trt014.
 Epub 2013 Feb 26.

Demographic profile of sylvatic yellow fever in Brazil from 1973 to 2008.

Câmara FP(1), de Carvalho LM, Gomes AL.

Author information:
(1)Sector for Infectious Diseases Epidemiology, Institute of Microbiology, 
Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Health Sciences Center - Block I, 
University City - Fundão Island, Rio de Janeiro 21941-590, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Yellow fever is an acute, frequently fatal, febrile arbovirosis that 
in Brazil occurs only in the sylvatic form. Sylvatic yellow fever (SYF) appears 
in sporadic outbreaks over a large area of Brazil. In this paper, we analyze the 
demographic profile of 831 SYF cases that occurred between 1973 and 2008, to 
determine which segments of the exposed population are at greater risk.
METHODS: Data were statistically analyzed and were also geo-referenced in order 
to observe their spatial pattern. The basic reproductive number of infections, 
R0, was estimated by the ratio between average life expectancy and the average 
age of the cases.
RESULTS: SYF cases showed a modal profile of young male adults, approximately 30 
years of age, living in rural areas of the states of Pará, Goiás, Maranhão and 
Minas Gerais, who were unvaccinated or whose vaccination was out of date. The 
disease showed a high mortality rate (51%, 421/831) among the notified cases, 
with death occurring on around the seventh day of illness for most patients. The 
R0 for SYF was estimated at approximately 2.4.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study suggest that lack of vaccination coverage 
is a major risk factor for SYF, and that the groups most at risk are migrant 
laborers, farm workers and tourists.

DOI: 10.1093/trstmh/trt014
PMID: 23442573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Health Econ Policy Law. 2014 Apr;9(2):143-68. doi:
10.1017/S1744133113000042.  Epub 2013 Feb 26.

Trends in health and health inequalities among major states of India: assessing 
progress through convergence models.

Goli S(1), Arokiasamy P(2).

Author information:
(1)1Assistant Professor, Department of Development Studies, Giri Institute of 
Development Studies, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)2Professor, Department of Development Studies, International Institute for 
Population Sciences, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.

Convergence in health and health inequalities reflects not only a sense of 
equity, but also provides a critical assessment tool for monitoring the health 
progress of differently placed individuals. This study examines convergence 
hypothesis for health and health inequalities across major Indian states, using 
both standard and cutting-edge convergence metrics. The findings lend support to 
the convergence in average health status among the states and the socioeconomic 
group of India, examined through select health indicators. However, results also 
suggest a setback in convergence in decline of health inequalities in recent 
times, particularly in life expectancy at birth, child immunization and 
underweight. Evidence signals that from the late 1990s, convergence in decline 
of health inequalities are replaced by emerging divergence. This paper 
contributes to health policy and planning by identifying areas where, India 
needs to work to achieve efficiency with equity in health status across 
geographical divisions and social groups.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133113000042
PMID: 23442747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Palliat Med. 2013 Sep;27(8):757-64. doi: 10.1177/0269216313477176. Epub 2013
Feb  26.

The 'dis-ease' of dying: challenges in nursing care of the dying in the acute 
hospital setting. A qualitative observational study.

Bloomer MJ(1), Endacott R, O'Connor M, Cross W.

Author information:
(1)School of Nursing and Midwifery, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Changes in health care and an ageing population have meant that more 
people are dying in the acute hospital setting. While palliative care principles 
have resulted in quality care for the dying, many patients die in an acute care, 
still receiving aggressive/resuscitative care.
AIMS: The aims were to explore nurses' 'recognition of' and 'responsiveness to' 
dying patients and to understand the nurses' influence on end-of-life care.
DESIGN: A qualitative approach was taken utilising non-participant observation 
to elicit rich data, followed by focus groups and individual semi-structured 
interviews for clarification.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: This study was conducted in two acute medical wards in one 
health service, identified as having the highest rates of death, once palliative 
care and critical care areas were excluded. Twenty-five nurses consented to 
participate, and 20 episodes of observation were conducted.
RESULTS: Nurses took a passive role in recognising dying, providing active care 
until a medical officer's declaration of dying. Ward design, nurse allocation 
and nurses' attitude to death impacts patient care. End-of-life care in a single 
room can have negative consequences for the dying. Nurses demonstrated varying 
degrees of discomfort, indicating that they were underprepared for this role.
CONCLUSION: When patients are terminally ill, acknowledgement of dying is 
essential in providing appropriate care. It should not be assumed that all 
nurses are adequately prepared to provide dying care. Further work is necessary 
to investigate how the attitudes of nurses towards caring for dying patients in 
the acute hospital setting may impact care of the dying patient.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216313477176
PMID: 23442881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. Eur J Hum Genet. 2013 Nov;21(11):1312-5. doi: 10.1038/ejhg.2013.27. Epub
2013  Feb 27.

Rapidly deteriorating course in Dutch hereditary spastic paraplegia type 11 
patients.

de Bot ST(1), Burggraaff RC, Herkert JC, Schelhaas HJ, Post B, Diekstra A, van 
Vliet RO, van der Knaap MS, Kamsteeg EJ, Scheffer H, van de Warrenburg BP, 
Verschuuren-Bemelmans CC, Kremer HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Radboud University, Nijmegen Medical Centre, Donders 
Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

Although SPG11 is the most common complicated hereditary spastic paraplegia, our 
knowledge of the long-term prognosis and life expectancy is limited. We 
therefore studied the disease course of all patients with a proven SPG11 
mutation as tested in our laboratory, the single Dutch laboratory providing 
SPG11 mutation analysis, between 1 January 2009 and 1 January 2011. We 
identified nine different SPG11 mutations, four of which are novel, in nine 
index patients. Eighteen SPG11 patients from these nine families were studied by 
means of a retrospective chart analysis and additional interview/examination. 
Ages at onset were between 4 months and 14 years; 39% started with learning 
difficulties rather than gait impairment. Brain magnetic resonance imaging 
showed a thin corpus callosum and typical periventricular white matter changes 
in the frontal horn region (known as the 'ears-of the lynx'-sign) in all. Most 
patients became wheelchair bound after a disease duration of 1 to 2 decades. 
End-stage disease consisted of loss of spontaneous speech, severe dysphagia, 
spastic tetraplegia with peripheral nerve involvement and contractures. Several 
patients died of complications between ages 30 and 48 years, 3-4 decades after 
onset of gait impairment. Other relevant features during the disease were 
urinary and fecal incontinence, obesity and psychosis. Our study of 18 Dutch 
SPG11-patients shows the potential serious long-term consequences of SPG11 
including a possibly restricted life span.

DOI: 10.1038/ejhg.2013.27
PMCID: PMC3798836
PMID: 23443022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. JAMA. 2013 Feb 27;309(8):814-22. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.879.

Reporting of patient-reported outcomes in randomized trials: the CONSORT PRO 
extension.

Calvert M(1), Blazeby J, Altman DG, Revicki DA, Moher D, Brundage MD; CONSORT 
PRO Group.

Collaborators: Brundage, Calvert, Blazeby, Moher, Revicki, Scott J, Efficace F, 
de Vet H, Yount S, Snyder C, King M, Lam C, Duffy H, Bass B.

Author information:
(1)Midland Hub for Trials Methodology Research, School of Health & Population 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, England.

Comment in
    Value Health. 2013 Jun;16(4):455-6.

The CONSORT (Consolidated Standards of Reporting Trials) Statement aims to 
improve the reporting of randomized controlled trials (RCTs); however, it lacks 
guidance on the reporting of patient-reported outcomes (PROs), which are often 
inadequately reported in trials, thus limiting the value of these data. In this 
article, we describe the development of the CONSORT PRO extension based on the 
methodological framework for guideline development proposed by the Enhancing the 
Quality and Transparency of Health Research (EQUATOR) Network. Five CONSORT PRO 
checklist items are recommended for RCTs in which PROs are primary or important 
secondary end points. These recommendations urge that the PROs be identified as 
a primary or secondary outcome in the abstract, that a description of the 
hypothesis of the PROs and relevant domains be provided (ie, if a 
multidimensional PRO tool has been used), that evidence of the PRO instrument's 
validity and reliability be provided or cited, that the statistical approaches 
for dealing with missing data be explicitly stated, and that PRO-specific 
limitations of study findings and generalizability of results to other 
populations and clinical practice be discussed. Examples and an updated CONSORT 
flow diagram with PRO items are provided. It is recommended that the CONSORT PRO 
guidance supplement the standard CONSORT guidelines for reporting RCTs with PROs 
as primary or secondary outcomes. Improved reporting of PRO data should 
facilitate robust interpretation of the results from RCTs and inform patient 
care.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.879
PMID: 23443445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Aging (Albany NY). 2012 Dec;4(12):899-916. doi: 10.18632/aging.100528.

Mechanistic or mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) may determine robustness in 
young male mice at the cost of accelerated aging.

Leontieva OV(1), Paszkiewicz GM, Blagosklonny MV.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Stress Biology, Roswell Park Cancer Institute, BLSC, 
L3-312, Elm and Carlton Streets, Buffalo, NY 14263, USA.

Males, who are bigger and stronger than females, live shorter in most species 
from flies to mammals including humans. Cellular mass growth is driven in part 
by mTOR (Target of Rapamycin). When developmental growth is completed, then, 
instead of growth, mTOR drives aging, manifested by increased cellular 
functions, such as hyper-secretion by fibroblasts, thus altering homeostasis, 
leading to age-related diseases and death. We hypothesize that MTOR activity is 
elevated in male mice compared with females. Noteworthy, 6 months old males were 
28 % heavier than females. Also levels of phosphorylated S6 (pS6) and 
phospho-AKT (p-AKT, Ser 473), markers of the mTOR activity, were higher in male 
organs tested. Levels of pS6 were highly variable among mice and correlated with 
body weight and p-AKT. With age, the difference between levels of pS6 between 
sexes tended to minimize, albeit males still had hyperactive mTOR. Unlike 
fasting, the intraperitoneal (i.p.) administration of rapamycin eliminated pS6 
in all organs of all females measured by immunoblotting and immunohistochemistry 
without affecting p-AKT and blood insulin. Although i.p. rapamycin dramatically 
decreased levels of pS6 in males too, it was still detectable by immunoblotting 
upon longer exposure. Our study demonstrated that both tissue p-AKT and pS6 were 
higher in young male mice and were associated with increased body weight and 
insulin. These data can explain bigger body size and faster aging in males. Our 
data suggest higher efficacy of rapamycin compared to fasting. Higher 
sensitivity of females to rapamycin may explain more pronounced life extension 
by rapamycin observed in females compared to males in several studies.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100528
PMCID: PMC3615157
PMID: 23443503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Age Ageing. 2013 Sep;42(5):614-9. doi: 10.1093/ageing/aft010. Epub 2013 Feb
25.

Exploring the relationship between national economic indicators and relative 
fitness and frailty in middle-aged and older Europeans.

Theou O(1), Brothers TD, Rockwood MR, Haardt D, Mitnitski A, Rockwood K.

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Medicine Research, Dalhousie University and Capital District Health 
Authority, Rm 1421 Veterans' Memorial Bldg, 5955 Veterans' Memorial Lane, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada B3H2E11.

BACKGROUND: on an individual level, lower-income has been associated with 
disability, morbidity and death. On a population level, the relationship of 
economic indicators with health is unclear.
OBJECTIVE: the purpose of this study was to evaluate relative fitness and 
frailty in relation to national income and healthcare spending, and their 
relationship with mortality.
DESIGN AND SETTING: secondary analysis of data from the Survey of Health, Ageing 
and Retirement in Europe (SHARE); a longitudinal population-based survey which 
began in 2004.
SUBJECTS: a total of 36,306 community-dwelling people aged 50 and older (16,467 
men; 19,839 women) from the 15 countries which participated in the SHARE 
comprised the study sample. A frailty index was constructed as the proportion of 
deficits present in relation to the 70 deficits available in SHARE. The 
characteristics of the frailty index examined were mean, prevalence of frailty 
and proportion of the fittest group.
RESULTS: the mean value of the frailty index was lower in higher-income 
countries (0.16 ± 0.12) than in lower-income countries (0.20 ± 0.14); the 
overall mean frailty index was negatively correlated with both gross domestic 
product (r = -0.79; P < 0.01) and health expenditure (r = -0.63; P < 0.05). 
Survival in non-frail participants at 24 months was not associated with national 
income (P = 0.19), whereas survival in frail people was greater in higher-income 
countries (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: a country's level of frailty and fitness in adults aged 50+ years 
is strongly correlated with national economic indicators. In higher-income 
countries, not only is the prevalence of frailty lower, but frail people also 
live longer.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/aft010
PMCID: PMC3745086
PMID: 23443511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Anat Rec (Hoboken). 2013 Apr;296(4):638-53. doi: 10.1002/ar.22674. Epub 2013
Feb  27.

A stockpile of ova in the grass frog Rana temporaria is established once for the 
life span. Do ovaries in amphibians and in mammals follow the same evolutionary 
strategy?

Ogielska M(1), Kotusz A, Augustyńska R, Ihnatowicz J, Paśko Ł.

Author information:
(1)Department of Evolutionary Biology and Conservation of Vertebrates, 
University of Wrocław, Poland. ogielska@biol.uni.wroc.pl

Most anuran amphibians produce high numbers of eggs during several consecutive 
breeding seasons. The question is still open whether oocytes are formed anew as 
a result of oogonial proliferation after each spawning or the definitive pool of 
oocytes is established during the juvenile period and is sufficient for the 
whole reproductive life span of a female. Our quantitative studies show that 
primary oogonia in adult female frogs can proliferate, but they fail to 
differentiate further and do not enter meiosis, and thereby there is no 
supplementation of new generations of oocytes after each spawning. Ovaries of 
one-year-old grass frogs contain (median) 53,447 diplotene oocytes, in 
two-years-old frogs this number decreased to 33,583 and eventually reached 
25,679 in virgin mature females. More than 50% decrease in the total oocyte 
number was accompanied by massive degeneration (atresia) of oocytes. The final 
number of oocytes in a female forms a stock for 11-12 breeding seasons and 
exceeds the number of eggs produced during the potential reproductive life span 
of this species. The phylogenetic context of oocyte recruitment modes in the 
major clades of vertebrates is discussed in respect to their ability to 
replenish the stock (a renewable stock in ovaries named "open" vs. a 
non-renewable stock in ovaries named "closed").

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ar.22674
PMID: 23444316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Afr J Reprod Health. 2012 Dec;16(4):13-20.

Management of infertility in HIV infected couples: a review.

Agboghoroma CO(1), Giwa-Osagie OF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynaecology, National Hospital Abuja. 
agboschris@yahoo.com

The HIV epidemic has continued to grow and remains a major challenge to mankind. 
In the past, ethical considerations about the resulting child and risks of 
sexual, vertical and nosocomial transmission of HIV prevented practitioners from 
offering fertility services to people living with HIV. In recent times however, 
the use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), has not only improved 
the life expectancy and quality of life of those infected but also reduced the 
risk of HIV transmission. The need for fertility services in the HIV-positive 
population has thus increased and may be employed for management of infertility 
and protection from transmission or acquisition of HIV infection. As such, 
preconception counseling, sexual health and fertility screening have become 
routine in the management of HIV-positive couples. The option of care include 
adoption, self insemination with husband sperm, embryo donation from couples who 
have been verified to be HIV negative, insemination with donor sperm, timed 
unprotected intercourse (TUI) and sperm washing combined with intrauterine 
insemination (IUI) and assisted reproductive technology (ART) including in-vitro 
fertilization (IVF) or intracytoplasmic sperm injection (ICSI). Access to these 
fertility services by HIV-positive clients should be facilitated as part of 
efforts to promote their reproductive health and rights.

PMID: 23444539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. J Biomech Eng. 2013 Feb;135(2):021020. doi: 10.1115/1.4023385.

Strategies utilized to transfer weight during knee flexion and extension with 
rotation for individuals with a total knee replacement.

