registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT01233453.
FINDINGS: From Jan 12, 2009, to Feb 7, 2011, we enrolled 2707 patients (4025 
lesions), 1795 of whom were assigned to receive the biolimus-eluting stent (2638 
lesions) and 912 to an everolimus-eluting stent (1387 lesions). 2688 (99·3%) 
patients completed 12 months' follow-up. Significantly more patients in the 
biolimus-eluting stent group received a non-assigned stent than did those in the 
everolimus-eluting stent group (105 [5·9%] vs 19 [2·1%]; p<0·0001). The primary 
endpoint occurred in 93 (5·2%) patients in the biolimus-eluting stent group and 
44 (4·8%) patients in the everolimus-eluting stent group at 12 months (relative 
risk 1·07 [95% CI 0·75-1·52]; p(non-inferiority)<0·0001). Analysis per protocol 
did not change the outcome of this trial (p(non-inferiority)<0·0001).
INTERPRETATION: Biodegradable polymer biolimus-eluting stents are as safe and 
efficacious as the current standard of a thin-strut everolimus-eluting stent 
with a durable biocompatible polymer. We need to follow-up patients for longer 
to show whether the biolimus-eluting stent reduces the risk of stent thrombosis 
after 1 year when compared with the everolimus-eluting stent.
FUNDING: Terumo Europe (Leuven, Belgium) and the Research Foundation of the 
Cardiology Department, Maasstad Hospital (Rotterdam, Netherlands).

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)61852-2
PMID: 23374650 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Semin Nephrol. 2013 Jan;33(1):23-33. doi: 10.1016/j.semnephrol.2012.12.003.

Structural renal changes in obesity and diabetes.

Amann K(1), Benz K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephropathology, Department of Pathology, University of 
Erlangen-Nürnberg, Erlangen, Germany. kerstin.amann@uk-erlangen.de

Overweight, obesity, and associated diseases represent an emerging problem, not 
only in Western countries but also in the developing world. They are now 
characterized as epidemic diseases. Obesity is particularly serious because its 
incidence in children and adolescents increased dramatically: it is estimated 
that in the United States every eighth adolescent suffers from obesity, which in 
the long run may reduce life expectancy in the population. Apart from 
cardiovascular disease (ie, blood pressure, stroke, and coronary heart disease), 
kidney diseases also have been shown to be associated with obesity. 
Epidemiologic studies have indicated that obesity can be a risk factor of 
chronic kidney disease irrespective of the presence or absence of diabetes, 
arterial hypertension, and other comorbidities. More evidence is accumulated on 
the link between chronic kidney disease in obesity and abnormalities in 
adipokine secretion (hyperleptinemia, lack of adiponectin), activation of the 
renin-angiotensin system, chronic inflammation, endothelial dysfunction, lipid 
accumulation, impaired renal hemodynamics, and diminished nephron number related 
to body mass. In general, obesity is known to aggravate the course of many 
primary renal diseases such as glomerulonephritides, but also impairs renal 
function after kidney transplantation. Microalbuminuria, proteinuria, 
hyperfiltration, and impaired renal function are associated with obesity. 
Histologically, secondary focal segmental sclerosis has been shown to be caused 
particularly by obesity. Of practical purpose for clinical nephrology, loss of 
body weight either by lifestyle modification or bariatric surgery improves 
albuminuria and hyperfiltration in obese patients, making renal disease in 
obesity accessible for prevention programs. This review specifically addresses 
the pathogenesis and morphology of renal functional and particularly structural 
changes in obesity and associated renal disease such as diabetic nephropathy.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semnephrol.2012.12.003
PMID: 23374891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Discov Med. 2013 Jan;15(80):23-32.

Elusive Alzheimer's disease: can immune signatures help our understanding of 
this challenging disease? Part 1: clinical and historical background.

Fulop T(1), Lacombe G, Cunnane S, Le Page A, Dupuis G, Frost EH, 
Bourgade-Navarro K, Goldeck D, Larbi A, Pawelec G.

Author information:
(1)Research Center on Aging, University of Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Quebec J1H 
4C4, Canada. tamas.fulop@usherbrooke.ca

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. Its most important 
pathological hallmarks are profound neuronal loss, presence of intracellular 
neurofibrillary tangles, and extracellular deposition of beta-amyloid protein 
(Aβ) as beta-amyloid plaques. These latter aggregations result in neuronal 
degeneration in brain regions important not only for memory, but also for other 
cognitive functions. One of the most important risk factors for AD is age and 
with the increase of life-expectancy AD has thus become the most common form of 
dementia. It is now formally recognized by several new diagnostic criteria that 
AD is not a homogeneous disease. The current "Holy Grail" is to be able to 
diagnose variants of AD before they manifest clinically and before irreparable 
brain damage is done. To achieve this goal, robust and reliable biomarkers that 
reflect the pathogenesis of AD have to be implemented. This is of paramount 
importance because such biomarkers may provide clues to pathways that can be 
targeted for interventions aimed at disease prevention or improvement. Although 
much attention has focused on Aβ as a major component of AD, Aβ may be a less 
attractive target since an increasing amount of data has raised concerns about 
its causative role in AD. This review will be in two parts, this first part will 
deal with the current clinical knowledge and the questions raised by the Aβ 
cascade hypothesis in the pathogenesis of AD and the second part will aim to 
synthesize our current knowledge and to discuss new data that suggest how immune 
alterations may contribute to the development of AD and may therefore provide 
beneficial targets in novel approaches for the treatment of AD.

PMID: 23375011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Discov Med. 2013 Jan;15(80):33-42.

Elusive Alzheimer's disease: can immune signatures help our understanding of 
this challenging disease? Part 2: new immune paradigm.

Fulop T(1), Lacombe G, Cunnane S, Le Page A, Dupuis G, Frost EH, 
Bourgade-Navarro K, Goldeck D, Larbi A, Pawelec G.

Author information:
(1)Research Center on Aging, University of Sherbrooke, Sherbrooke, Quebec J1H 
4C4, Canada. tamas.fulop@usherbrooke.ca

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is the most common form of dementia. Its most important 
pathological hallmarks are profound neuronal loss, presence of intracellular 
neurofibrillary tangles, and extracellular deposition of beta-amyloid protein 
(Aβ) as beta-amyloid plaques. One of the most important risk factors for AD is 
age and with the increase of life-expectancy AD has become the most common form 
of dementia. The current "Holy Grail" is to be able to diagnose variants of AD 
before they manifest clinically and before irreparable brain damage is done. To 
be able to do so, we need robust and reliable biomarkers which reflect the 
pathogenesis of AD. This is essential because such biomarkers might indicate 
pathways that could be targeted for interventions aiming at disease prevention 
or amelioration. Although much attention has been focused on Aβ in this respect, 
it may not be as attractive a target as thought if current doubts concerning its 
causative role are substantiated. This review will be in two parts, the first 
part dealt with the current clinical knowledge and the questions raised by the 
Aβ cascade hypothesis in the pathogenesis of AD and this second part aims to 
synthesize our current knowledge and new data suggesting how immunity may 
contribute to the development of AD and may itself be targeted in future 
treatments.

PMID: 23375012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Brain Behav Immun. 2013 May;30:133-42. doi: 10.1016/j.bbi.2013.01.082. Epub
2013  Jan 30.

Eccentric-exercise induced inflammation attenuates the vascular responses to 
mental stress.

Paine NJ(1), Ring C, Aldred S, Bosch JA, Wadley AJ, Veldhuijzen van Zanten JJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Sport and Exercise Sciences, College of Life and Environmental 
Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT, United Kingdom. 
N.J.Paine@bham.ac.uk

Mental stress has been identified as a trigger of myocardial infarction (MI), 
with inflammation and vascular responses to mental stress independently 
implicated as contributing factors. This study examined whether inflammation 
moderates the vascular responses to mental stress. Eighteen healthy male 
participants completed a stress task under two counter balanced conditions. In 
the exercise condition, a morning bout of eccentric exercise (12×5 repetitions 
of unilateral eccentric knee extension at 120% intensity of concentric one 
repetition maximum) was used to increase levels of inflammatory-responsive 
cytokines during an afternoon stress session scheduled 6h later. In the control 
condition, participants sat and relaxed for 45min, 6h prior to the afternoon 
stress session. Forearm blood flow, calf blood flow (measured in the leg which 
completed the exercise task), blood pressure, heart rate and cardiac output were 
assessed at rest and in response to mental stress. As expected, interleukin-6 
was higher (p=.02) 6h post exercise, i.e., at the start of the stress session, 
as compared to the no-exercise control condition. Mental stress increased 
forearm blood flow, calf blood flow, blood pressure, heart rate, and cardiac 
output in both conditions (p's<.001). Stress-induced calf blood flow was 
attenuated in the exercise condition compared to the control condition (p<.05) 
which was not the case for forearm blood flow. This study found that the 
inflammatory response to eccentric exercise attenuated the vascular responses to 
mental stress locally at the site of eccentric exercise-induced inflammation. 
The observed impairment in vascular responses to stress associated with 
increased levels of inflammation suggests a mechanism through which inflammation 
might increase the risk for MI.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbi.2013.01.082
PMID: 23376168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Int J Pharm. 2013 Mar 10;445(1-2):171-80. doi:
10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.01.045.  Epub 2013 Jan 30.

Nanoparticle mediated co-delivery of paclitaxel and a TLR-4 agonist results in 
tumor regression and enhanced immune response in the tumor microenvironment of a 
mouse model.

Roy A(1), Singh MS, Upadhyay P, Bhaskar S.

Author information:
(1)Product Development Cell-I, National Institute of Immunology, New Delhi 
110067, India.

Inefficiency of cancer chemotherapy to improve life expectancy in majority of 
patients raises serious concern and warrants development of novel therapeutic 
strategies. Immunotherapy in combination with chemotherapy has shown promising 
outcomes in recent years. Herein, we report better tumor regression and 
enhancement of antitumor immune response at the tumor microenvironment by 
co-delivery of paclitaxel and a TLR4 agonist through a PLGA based nanoparticle 
preparation (TLNP). Particle characterization showed high encapsulation of both 
components and retention of their biological activities. In vivo tumor 
regression studies demonstrated clear benefit of TLNP over the paclitaxel. The 
mean tumor volume of the TLNP treated animals was found to be 40% less than that 
of the Paclitaxel treated animals. Flow cytometric analysis of tumor 
infiltrating immune cells indicated activation of antigen presenting cells and 
T-cells providing evidence of Th1 immune response. In vivo results are promising 
and could pave way for novel chemo-immunotherapeutic treatment modality.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2013.01.045
PMID: 23376226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. J Environ Manage. 2013 Mar 30;118:11-20. doi: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2012.12.039.
 Epub 2013 Jan 31.

Using fundamental hydrogeological equations to monitor the effects of clogging 
and media consolidation on the hydraulic regime of a vertical subsurface flow 
treatment system.

Speer S(1), Champagne P, Anderson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil Engineering, Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada K7L 
3N6.

The design of passive biological filters has evolved and current design 
practices are predominantly based on flow (either horizontal or vertical) 
through porous media. To date, no method has been developed to accurately 
estimate the effective life expectancy of these types of treatment systems, nor 
have non-intrusive methods to determine the extent of substratum clogging been 
perfected. This research presents the results of tracer studies on various 
stages of two hybrid-passive landfill leachate treatment systems: an aerated 
pretreatment system followed by two different types of vertical-flow through 
porous media treatment systems. The tracer studies were used to assess changes 
in the active volumes of the different stages of the leachate treatment systems 
over a 9-month period. An analytical method, employing the governing equations 
for flow through porous media, was used to quantify the changes in saturated 
hydraulic conductivity in the treatment system cells. The results from the 
analytical method were combined with the results from the tracer study to 
further the understanding of the flow and mixing within the treatment system 
cells.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jenvman.2012.12.039
PMID: 23376342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Arthropod Struct Dev. 2013 May;42(3):229-35. doi: 10.1016/j.asd.2013.01.002.
 Epub 2013 Jan 29.

Eco-morphological studies on pleopodal lungs and cuticle in Armadillidium 
species (Crustacea, Isopoda, Oniscidea).

Csonka D(1), Halasy K, Szabó P, Mrak P, Strus J, Hornung E.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biology, Faculty of Veterinary Science, Szent István 
University, Rottenbiller str. 50, H-1077 Budapest, Hungary. 
csonka.diana@gmail.com

Terrestrial isopods (Crustacea, Isopoda, Oniscidea) have adapted to land life by 
diverse morphological, physiological and behavioral changes. Woodlice species 
exhibit a large variety in this respect, their preferences ranging from moist to 
dry habitats. These moisture preference values are related to various 
morphological adaptations, rendering terrestrial isopods amenable to studying 
morphological adaptations to terrestrial life. We performed a comparison of four 
Armadillidium species (Armadillidium zenckeri, Armadillidium nasatum, 
Armadillidium versicolor, Armadillidium vulgare), by quantifying two 
morphological traits: the extent of the interfacial endothelium between the 
respiratory space and the hemolymph within pleopodal lungs and the thickness of 
tergite cuticle, which are 'key factors' in determining protection from 
desiccation. These values were measured from light micrographs of 
cross-sectioned lungs. The cosmopolitan A. vulgare, as a habitat generalist, 
seems to be the most resistant against desiccation and other environmental 
conditions, while A. zenckeri is the most sensitive one. Light microscopic 
studies revealed that the four species can be ordered similarly, if we compare 
them by the extension of the endothelial interface and cuticle thickness, 
suggesting that these morphological traits are important determinants of their 
distribution on habitat, microhabitat scales and through the existence of 
suitable habitats - together with many other factors - the geographical pattern 
of species occurence.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.asd.2013.01.002
PMID: 23376766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Int J Oral Maxillofac Implants. 2013 Jan-Feb;28(1):184-9. doi: 
10.11607/jomi.2693.

A retrospective comparison of implants in the pterygomaxillary region: implant 
placement with two-stage, single-stage, and guided surgery protocols.

Balshi TJ(1), Wolfinger GJ, Slauch RW, Balshi SF.

Author information:
(1)PI Dental Center at Institute for Facial Esthetics, Fort Washington, PA 
19034, USA. balshi2@aol.com

PURPOSE: Implants placed into the pterygomaxillary region allow for increased 
posterior support and a full complement of teeth without the need for distal 
cantilevers. With advancements in research and technology, implant delivery has 
evolved from the traditional two-stage procedure to immediate loading freehand 
and guided surgical template protocols. The purpose of this retrospective study 
is to determine if there is a significant difference in implant survival rates 
between these protocols.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All pterygomaxillary implants placed in a single private 
practice from September 1985 to July 2011 were categorized into three separate 
classifications (two-stage freehand, single-stage freehand, or single-stage 
guided) by retrospective chart review. Life tables were constructed to determine 
the cumulative survival rates (CSR), and ANOVA was used to identify statistical 
significance.
RESULTS: A total of 981 patients comprising 371 males and 610 females were 
included in the study. Of all pterygomaxillary implants, 1,460 of 1,608 implants 
osseointegrated for a CSR of 90.80%. Seven hundred nine of the 825 two-stage, 
624 of the 647 single-stage, and 127 of the 136 guided surgery implants 
osseointegrated for CSRs of 85.94%, 96.45%, and 93.38%, respectively. The 
comparison between two-stage and single-stage protocols was statistically 
significant, (P < .05) while the difference between single-stage guided versus 
freehand protocols was found to be statistically insignificant (P > .05).
CONCLUSION: The results from this retrospective study reinforce that immediate 
loading of pterygomaxillary implants with a provisional prosthesis is beneficial 
to both doctor and patient. The lower CSR for the guided surgery protocol 
compared with the single-stage freehand procedure is statistically 
insignificant, suggesting guided surgery is still a viable and recommended 
option for qualified patients.

DOI: 10.11607/jomi.2693
PMID: 23377065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Eur J Public Health. 2013 Dec;23(6):933-9. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt008. Epub
2013  Jan 31.

Access points to the different levels of health care and demographic predictors 
in a country without a gatekeeping system. Results of a cross-sectional study 
from Austria.

Hoffmann K(1), Stein KV, Maier M, Rieder A, Dorner TE.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of General Practice and Family Medicine, Centre for Public 
Health, Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: The challenges for health care systems are evident both in terms of 
costs and of healthy life expectancy. It was the aim of this study to assess the 
access points towards the different levels of care and predictors for consulting 
a specialist without having consulted a general practitioner (GP), a common way 
of access to the Austrian health care system, a system without gatekeeping 
function.
METHOD: The database used for this analysis was the Austrian Health Interview 
Survey 2006-07, with data from 15 474 people. Statistical analyses included 
descriptive statistics as well as multivariate logistic regression models.
RESULTS: In the 12 months before the survey, 78.8% consulted a GP, 67.4% 
consulted a specialist, 18.6% visited an outpatient department and 22.8% had a 
hospital stay at least once. Overall, 15.1% visited a specialist, 8.5% an 
outpatient department and 8.1% a hospital without consulting a GP concomitantly. 
One of the main reasons for direct specialist use was a preventive check-up 
visit. Tertiary education and migration background increased significantly the 
chance of having been to a specialist without GP contact for both sexes.
CONCLUSION: The overall access rates for specialists as well as the access rates 
for specialist without GP consultations were high. The findings point into the 
direction of a benefit through a structurally supported advocacy role for 
primary health care professionals. The knowledge gained could contribute to the 
health policy debate on the importance of coordination and continuity with 
special respect to demographic factors showing the importance of 
target-group-specific interventions.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt008
PMID: 23377140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Med Ethics. 2013 Nov;39(11):713-6. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100729.
Epub  2013 Feb 2.

Attitudes toward euthanasia and physician-assisted suicide: a study of the 
multivariate effects of healthcare training, patient characteristics, religion 
and locus of control.

Hains CA(1), Hulbert-Williams NJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Chester, , Chester, UK.

Public and healthcare professionals differ in their attitudes towards euthanasia 
and physician-assisted suicide (PAS), the legal status of which is currently in 
the spotlight in the UK. In addition to medical training and experience, 
religiosity, locus of control and patient characteristics (eg, patient age, pain 
levels, number of euthanasia requests) are known influencing factors. Previous 
research tends toward basic designs reporting on attitudes in the context of 
just one or two potentially influencing factors; we aimed to test the 
comparative importance of a larger range of variables in a sample of nursing 
trainees and non-nursing controls. One hundred and fifty-one undergraduate 
students (early-stage nursing training, late-stage nursing training and 
non-nursing controls) were approached on a UK university campus and asked to 
complete a self-report questionnaire. Participants were of mixed gender and were 
on average 25.5 years old. No significant differences in attitude were found 
between nursing and non-nursing students. There was a significant positive 
correlation between higher religiosity and positive attitude toward euthanasia 
(r=0.19, p<0.05) and a significant negative relationship between internal locus 
of control and positive attitude toward PAS (r=-0.263, p<0.01). Multivariate 
analyses revealed differing predictor models for attitudes towards euthanasia 
and PAS, and confirm the importance of individual differences in determining 
these attitudes. The unexpected direction of association between religiosity and 
attitudes may reflect a broader cultural shift in attitudes since earlier 
research in this area. Furthermore, these findings suggest it possible that 
experience, more than training itself, may be a bigger influence on attitudinal 
differences in healthcare professionals.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100729
PMID: 23378530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Can J Gastroenterol. 2013 Jan;27(1):20-4. doi: 10.1155/2013/380389.

Long-term follow-up of patients with malignant pedunculated colon polyps after 
colonoscopic polypectomy.

Freeman HJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (Gastroenterology), University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia. hugfree@shaw.ca

BACKGROUND: Previously published studies have suggested that patients with 
resected colon cancer have an increased risk for early metachronous colon 
cancer. Current screening guidelines recommend intense surveillance by 
colonoscopy for the initial five years after the initial colon cancer has been 
resected. Information regarding endoscopically removed malignant polyps is 
limited.
METHODS: In the present study, 25 consecutive patients (14 male, 11 female) with 
malignant pedunculated colon polyps treated with snare cautery polypectomy were 
followed for more than one decade up to 20 years. Five patients required an 
additional resection to ensure that removal of the original cancer was complete. 
Annual colonoscopies were planned for five years. If an adenoma was detected in 
the fifth year, colonoscopy was performed annually until no adenomas were 
detected. Otherwise, colonoscopy was planned every three years after five years.
RESULTS: In the present study, there was no mortality from colon cancer and no 
patient developed either recurrent colon cancer or an early metachronous colon 
cancer during the initial five-year period of surveillance. Two patients (one 
male, one female) ultimately developed late cecal cancers almost one decade 
after the original colon cancers were resected. One had an early stage cancer 
that was resected, while the other had an infiltrating mucinous carcinoma 
complicating a small tubulovillous adenoma with extension to a single lymph 
node. After surgical removal and adjuvant chemotherapy, no further neoplastic 
disease has been detected.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, patients with malignant pedunculated polyps do extremely 
well if appropriately managed at the time of the initial polypectomy. Short-term 
outcomes after removal of a malignant polyp(s) appear to be similar to those 
with a nonmalignant polyp. However, late metachronous colon cancer may still 
occur. Long-term follow-up should be considered in each patient, assuming 
reasonable life expectancy, because risk of additional adenomas and metachronous 
colon cancer persists even after the initial five years of currently recommended 
surveillance. Patients with resected malignant polyps may represent a special 
patient subgroup that requires surveillance for more extended periods than 
current guidelines have recommended.

HISTORIQUE : Des études déjà publiées laissent supposer que les patients ayant 
un cancer du côlon réséqué présentent un risque plus élevé de cancer métachrone 
précoce du côlon. Les lignes directrices actuelles sur le dépistage recommandent 
une surveillance intense par coloscopie pendant les cinq années suivant la 
résection du premier cancer du côlon. L’information relative à la résection des 
polypes malins est limitée.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : Dans la présente étude, 25 patients consécutifs (14 hommes, 11 
femmes) ayant des polypes pédonculés malins du côlon traités par polypectomie 
par cautère en anse ont été suivis pendant plus de dix ans et jusqu’à 20 ans. 
Cinq patients ont eu besoin d’une résection supplémentaire afin de s’assurer de 
la résection complète du premier cancer. Des coloscopies annuelles ont été 
planifiées pendant cinq ans. Si on décelait un adénome la cinquième année, la 
coloscopie était effectuée tous les ans jusqu’à ce qu’on ne décèle plus 
d’adénome. Autrement, au bout de cinq ans, la coloscopie était planifiée tous 
les trois ans.
RÉSULTATS : Dans la présente étude, les chercheurs n’ont pas observé de 
mortalité causée par le cancer du côlon, et aucun patient n’a présenté de 
récurrence du cancer du côlon ou un cancer métachrone précoce du côlon pendant 
la première période de surveillance de cinq ans. Deux patients (un homme, une 
femme) ont fini par présenter des cancers cæcaux tardifs près de dix ans après 
la résection du cancer du côlon original. L’un avait un cancer en phase précoce 
qui a été réséqué, tandis que l’autre présentait un carcinome mucineux 
infiltrant compliquant un petit adénome tubulovilleux métastasé dans un seul 
ganglion lymphatique. Après la résection chirurgicale et la chimiothérapie 
adjuvante, aucune maladie néoplasique supplémentaire n’a été décelée.
CONCLUSIONS : Dans l’ensemble, les patients ayant des polypes pédonculés malins 
s’en tirent très bien s’ils sont bien pris en charge dès la polypectomie 
initiale. Les issues à court terme après la résection de polype(s) malin(s) 
semblent similaires à celles des personnes ayant des polypes non malins. 
Cependant, un cancer métachrone tardif du côlon demeure une possibilité. Le 
suivi à long terme devrait être envisagé chez chaque patient, sous réserve d’une 
espérance de vie raisonnable, parce que le risque d’adénomes supplémentaires et 
de cancer métachrone du côlon persiste même après les cinq premières années 
recommandées pour la surveillance. Les patients ayant subi l’ablation des 
polypes malins peuvent constituer un sous-groupe spécial de patients qui ont 
besoin d’une surveillance plus longue que ce que les lignes directrices 
actuelles recommandent.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/380389
PMCID: PMC3545622
PMID: 23378979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Arch Public Health. 2013 Feb 4;71(1):2. doi: 10.1186/0778-7367-71-2.

The joint action on healthy life years (JA: EHLEIS).

Robine JM(1), Cambois E, Nusselder W, Jeune B, Oyen HV, Jagger C; JA: EHLEIS 
team.

Author information:
(1)French National Institute of Health and Medical Research, INSERM U988 & U710, 
Paris & Montpellier, France. jean-marie.robine@inserm.fr.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy has been increasing during the last century within 
the European Union (EU). To measure progress in population health it is no 
longer sufficient to focus on the duration of life but quality of life should be 
considered. Healthy Life Years (HLY) allow estimating the quality of the 
remaining years that a person is expected to live, in terms of being free of 
long-standing activity limitation. The Joint Action on Healthy Life Years (JA: 
EHLEIS) is a joint action of European Member States (MS) and the European Union 
aiming at analysing trends, patterns and differences in HLY, as well as in other 
Summary Measures of Population Health (SMPH) indicators, across the European 
member states.
METHODS: The JA: EHLEIS consolidates existing information on life and health 
expectancy by maximising the European comparability; by analysing trends in HLY 
within the EU; by analysing the evolution of the differences in HLY between 
Member States; and by identifying both macro-level as micro-level determinants 
of the inequalities in HLY. The JA: EHLEIS works in collaboration with the USA, 
Japan and OECD on the development of new SMPHs to be used globally. To 
strengthen the utility of the HLY for policy-making, annual meetings with 
policy-makers are planned.
RESULTS: The information system allows the estimation of a set of health 
indicators (morbidity and disability prevalence, life and health expectancies) 
for Europe, Member States and shortly their regional levels. An annual country 
report on HLY in the national languages is available. The JA: EHLEIS is 
developing statistical attribution and decomposition tools which will be helpful 
to determine the impact of specific diseases, life styles or other determinants 
on differences in HLY. Through a set of international workshops the JA: EHLEIS 
aims to develop a blueprint for an international harmonized Summary Measure of 
Population Health.
CONCLUSION: The JA: EHLEIS objectives are to monitor progress towards the 
headline target of the Europe 2020 strategy of increasing HLY by 2 years by 2020 
and to support policy development by identifying the main determinants of active 
and healthy ageing in Europe.

DOI: 10.1186/0778-7367-71-2
PMCID: PMC3598905
PMID: 23379576


225. Am J Manag Care. 2013 Jan 1;19(1):e30-7.

Cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal and influenza vaccination standing order 
programs.

Lin CJ(1), Zimmerman RK, Smith KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA. cjlin@pitt.edu

OBJECTIVES: Despite the benefits of vaccination and guidelines for their use, 
the rates for influenza and pneumococcal vaccination remain below the 90% goal 
set by Healthy People 2010 for persons 65 years and older. Standing order 
programs (SOPs) authorize vaccination administration without physician orders. 
Here we examine the cost-effectiveness of SOPs to improve both pneumococcal and 
influenza vaccination rates in outpatient settings for individuals 65 years and 
older.
STUDY DESIGN: Decision analysis-based cost-effectiveness analysis.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness of outpatient SOPs for pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine 
(PPSV) and influenza vaccination in hypothetical US population cohorts 65 years 
and older. Vaccination rate improvement data were obtained from the medical 
literature. Centers for Disease Control and Prevention Active Bacterial Core 
surveillance data and US national databases were used to estimate costs and 
outcomes.
RESULTS: SOPs cost $14,171 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained compared 
with no program from a third-party payer perspective. In 1-way sensitivity 
analyses, the SOP strategy cost less than $50,000/QALY if SOPs increased 
absolute vaccination rates by 4% or more (base case: 18%), annual SOP costs were 
less than $21 per person (base case: $4.60), or annual influenza incidence was 
4% or more (base case: 10%). Model results were insensitive to other individual 
parameter variations, and were supported by a probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: SOPs used to improve PPSV and influenza vaccination rates in 
outpatient settings is a promising and economically favorable investment, with 
cost-effectiveness analysis results remaining robust to parameter variation over 
clinically plausible ranges.

PMCID: PMC4683600
PMID: 23379777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. BMC Res Notes. 2013 Feb 4;6:45. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-6-45.

Small bowel perforation due to CMV enteritis infection in an HIV-positive 
patient.

Michalopoulos N(1), Triantafillopoulou K, Beretouli E, Laskou S, Papavramidis 
TS, Pliakos I, Hytiroglou P, Papavramidis ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, 
Greece. nickos.michalopoulos@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Cytomegalovirus infection of the gastrointestinal tract is common 
and is more often seen in patients with acquired immunodeficiency syndrome 
(AIDS). Although small bowel infection is less common than infection of other 
parts of the gastrointestinal system, it may lead to perforation, an acute 
complication, with dreadful results.
CASE PRESENTATION: This article reports a case of Cytomegalovirus ileitis with 
multiple small bowel perforations in a young man with human immunodeficiency 
virus (HIV) infection. The patient developed abdominal pain with diarrhea and 
fever, and eventually acute abdomen with pneumoperitoneum. The patient had poor 
prognosis and deceased despite the prompt surgical intervention and the 
antiviral therapy he received. At pathology a remarkable finding was the 
presence of viral inclusions in smooth muscle fibers. The destruction of muscle 
cells was the main cause of perforation.
CONCLUSION: Morbidity and mortality associated with perforation from CMV 
enteritis in AIDS patients are high and the life expectancy is short. 
Cytomegalovirus disease is multifocal; therefore, excision of one portion of the 
gastrointestinal tract may be followed by a complication elsewhere. Our case 
elucidate that muscle cell destruction by the virus is a significant cause 
leading to perforation.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-6-45
PMCID: PMC3568738
PMID: 23379792 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2013 May;21(5):655-67. doi: 
10.1016/j.joca.2013.01.016. Epub 2013 Feb 4.

Disease-modifying drugs for knee osteoarthritis: can they be cost-effective?

Losina E(1), Daigle ME, Suter LG, Hunter DJ, Solomon DH, Walensky RP, Jordan JM, 
Burbine SA, Paltiel AD, Katz JN.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic and Arthritis Center for Outcomes Research, Department of 
Orthopedic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
elosina@partners.org

OBJECTIVE: Disease-modifying osteoarthritis drugs (DMOADs) are under 
development. Our goal was to determine efficacy, toxicity, and cost thresholds 
under which DMOADs would be a cost-effective knee OA treatment.
DESIGN: We used the Osteoarthritis Policy Model, a validated computer simulation 
of knee OA, to compare guideline-concordant care to strategies that insert 
DMOADs into the care sequence. The guideline-concordant care sequence included 
conservative pain management, corticosteroid injections, total knee replacement 
(TKR), and revision TKR. Base case DMOAD characteristics included: 50% chance of 
suspending progression in the first year (resumption rate of 10% thereafter) and 
30% pain relief among those with suspended progression; 0.5%/year risk of major 
toxicity; and costs of $1,000/year. In sensitivity analyses, we varied suspended 
progression (20-100%), pain relief (10-100%), major toxicity (0.1-2%), and cost 
($1,000-$7,000). Outcomes included costs, quality-adjusted life expectancy, 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), and TKR utilization.
RESULTS: Base case DMOADs added 4.00 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and 
$230,000 per 100 persons, with an ICER of $57,500/QALY. DMOADs reduced need for 
TKR by 15%. Cost-effectiveness was most sensitive to likelihoods of suspended 
progression and pain relief. DMOADs costing $3,000/year achieved ICERs below 
$100,000/QALY if the likelihoods of suspended progression and pain relief were 
20% and 70%. At a cost of $5,000, these ICERs were attained if the likelihoods 
of suspended progression and pain relief were both 60%.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost, suspended progression, and pain relief are key drivers of 
value for DMOADs. Plausible combinations of these factors could reduce need for 
TKR and satisfy commonly cited cost-effectiveness criteria.

Copyright © 2013 Osteoarthritis Research Society International. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.joca.2013.01.016
PMCID: PMC3670115
PMID: 23380251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST The authors do not have any 
conflict of interest with respect to the context of this paper.


228. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2013 Feb 5;133(3):290-4. doi:
10.4045/tidsskr.12.0390.

Health and disease in adults with Down syndrome.

[Article in English, Norwegian]

Malt EA(1), Dahl RC, Haugsand TM, Ulvestad IH, Emilsen NM, Hansen B, Cardenas 
YE, Skøld RO, Thorsen AT, Davidsen EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Adult Habilitation, Akershus University Hospital, Norway. 
emal@ahus.no

Comment in
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2013 Feb 5;133(3):263.
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2013 Apr 9;133(7):734.
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2013 Apr 9;133(7):734.
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2013 Apr 9;133(7):734-5.

BACKGROUND: The increasing life expectancy of persons with Down syndrome calls 
for a knowledge of conditions that frequently occur in adults with the syndrome 
and of which health personnel should be particularly aware.
METHOD: The article is based on a literature search in PubMed and the authors' 
clinical experience with the patient group.
RESULTS: Altered immune system function, muscular hypotonia, dysmorphic 
otolaryngologic features and premature ageing contribute to health problems. The 
group is susceptible to infections, particularly of the respiratory and the 
gastrointestinal tract. Congenital heart defects may give rise to symptoms, also 
in adults. Many also develop mitral valve disease, including those without 
congenital heart defects. Hypothyroidism develops in up to half, and coeliac 
disease in one of five. Obstructive sleep apnoea syndrome occurs in 
approximately half. Sensorineural hearing loss and cataract may occur before the 
age of 30. Atlantoaxial instability occurs, and radiological examination of the 
neck must take place before intervention under general anaesthesia. Behavioural 
changes with loss of skills, withdrawal, psychomotoric retardation and mutism 
occur frequently from the age of 30 and may be symptoms of mental illness or the 
onset of Alzheimer's dementia.
INTERPRETATION: Adults with Down syndrome need to undergo regular medical 
examinations, and we recommend an annual check-up with the primary doctor. 
Screening for hearing loss and cataract is also recommended every three and five 
years, respectively. In the event of concomitant symptoms, particularly related 
to neurological and psychiatric conditions, the patient can be referred to the 
habilitation service.

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.12.0390
PMID: 23381164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. JAMA Intern Med. 2013 Mar 11;173(5):385-6. doi:
10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.2006.

The status of baby boomers' health in the United States: the healthiest 
generation?

King DE, Matheson E, Chirina S, Shankar A, Broman-Fulks J.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.2006
PMID: 23381505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. PLoS One. 2013;8(1):e54792. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054792. Epub 2013 Jan
28.

Sodium valproate alleviates neurodegeneration in SCA3/MJD via suppressing 
apoptosis and rescuing the hypoacetylation levels of histone H3 and H4.

Yi J(1), Zhang L, Tang B, Han W, Zhou Y, Chen Z, Jia D, Jiang H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Xiangya Hospital, Central South University, 
Changsha, China.

Spinocerebellar ataxia type 3 (SCA3) also known as Machado-Joseph Disease (MJD), 
is one of nine polyglutamine (polyQ) diseases caused by a CAG-trinucelotide 
repeat expansion within the coding sequence of the ATXN3 gene. There are no 
disease-modifying treatments for polyQ diseases. Recent studies suggest that an 
imbalance in histone acetylation may be a key process leading to transcriptional 
dysregulation in polyQ diseases. Because of this possible imbalance, the 
application of histone deacetylase (HDAC) inhibitors may be feasible for the 
treatment of polyQ diseases. To further explore the therapeutic potential of 
HDAC inhibitors, we constructed two independent preclinical trials with valproic 
acid (VPA), a promising therapeutic HDAC inhibitor, in both Drosophila and cell 
SCA3 models. We demonstrated that prolonged use of VPA at specific dose partly 
prevented eye depigmentation, alleviated climbing disability, and extended the 
average lifespan of SCA3/MJD transgenic Drosophila. We found that VPA could both 
increase the acetylation levels of histone H3 and histone H4 and reduce the 
early apoptotic rate of cells without inhibiting the aggregation of mutant 
ataxin-3 proteins in MJDtr-Q68- expressing cells. These results collectively 
support the premise that VPA is a promising therapeutic agent for the treatment 
of SCA3 and other polyQ diseases.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054792
PMCID: PMC3557284
PMID: 23382971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


231. Am J Neurodegener Dis. 2012;1(3):266-79. Epub 2012 Nov 18.

Interactions between oestrogen and the renin angiotensin system - potential 
mechanisms for gender differences in Alzheimer's disease.

O'Hagan TS(1), Wharton W, Kehoe PG.

Author information:
(1)Dementia Research Group, John James Laboratories, School of Clinical 
Sciences, University of Bristol, Frenchay Hospital Bristol, BS16 1LE.

Interactions between oestrogen and the renin angiotensin system (RAS) are 
reviewed and explored from the perspective where these interactions may modulate 
risk of developing Alzheimer's disease (AD). AD is more prevalent in women than 
men, partly attributed to women's increased life expectancy; however underlying 
vascular differences may also contribute to AD risk. The RAS is a key regulator 
of blood pressure (BP). Pharmacological inhibition of angiotensin converting 
enzyme (ACE) and blockade of angiotensin II type 1 receptors (AT1R) are widely 
used to treat hypertension. Variation in components of the RAS such as ACE, 
neprilysin (NEP) and AT1R have been reported in AD, some of which may also 
directly alter AD neuropathology with changes in amyloid beta (Aβ) levels, 
cognitive decline and neuroinflammation. Recently, RAS inhibiting drugs have 
been shown to attenuate the incidence, progression and pathology of AD. 
Oestrogen is also thought to prevent hypertension by reducing the 
vasoconstrictive actions of the RAS. Reduced oestrogen levels in women during 
the menopausal transition may therefore increase their risk of hypertension 
and/or RAS-mediated changes to cerebrovascular or AD pathology. Specifically, 
oestrogen prevents the production and action of angiotensin II (Ang II), thought 
to exert harmful effects of the RAS in both hypertension and AD, while also 
potentially facilitating RAS-mediated Aβ degradation. These oestrogen-RAS 
interactions may partly explain current conflicting findings regarding oestrogen 
depletion and hormone therapy with respect to AD risk. Clinical trials targeting 
either the RAS or oestrogen systems for AD prevention and treatment should 
perhaps give closer attention to key biochemical components of these pathways as 
potential confounders to primary and secondary outcome measures.

PMCID: PMC3560469
PMID: 23383397


232. J Med Econ. 2013;16(4):468-78. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.768999. Epub 2013
Feb  6.

Cost-effectiveness of insulin detemir compared with NPH insulin in people with 
type 2 diabetes in Denmark, Finland, Norway, and Sweden.

Ridderstråle M(1), Jensen MM, Gjesing RP, Niskanen L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden. 
martin.ridderstrale@med.lu.se

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of insulin detemir compared with 
Neutral Protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin when initiating insulin treatment in 
people with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) in Denmark, Finland, Norway, and 
Sweden.
METHODS: Efficacy and safety data were derived from a 20-week multi-centre 
randomized controlled head-to-head clinical trial comparing insulin detemir and 
NPH insulin in insulin naïve people with T2DM, and short-term (1-year) cost 
effectiveness analyses were performed. As no significant differences in HbA1c 
were observed between the two treatment arms, the model was based on significant 
differences in favour of insulin detemir in frequency of hypoglycaemia 
(Rate-Ratio = 0.52; CI = 0.44-0.61) and weight gain (Δ = 0.9 kg). Model outcomes 
were measured in Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) using published utility 
estimates. Acquisition costs for insulin and direct healthcare costs associated 
with non-severe hypoglycaemic events were obtained from National Health Service 
public sources. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Based on lower incidence of non-severe hypoglycaemic events and less 
weight gain, the QALY gain from initiating treatment with insulin detemir 
compared with NPH insulin was 0.01 per patient per year. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for the individual countries were: Denmark, Danish 
Kroner 170,852 (€22,933); Finland, €28,349; Norway, Norwegian Kroner 169,789 
(€21,768); and Sweden, Swedish Krona 226,622 (€25,097) per QALY gained. Possible 
limitations of the study are that data on hypoglycaemia and relative weight 
benefits from a clinical trial were combined with hypoglycaemia incidence data 
from observational studies. These populations may have slightly different 
patient characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: The lower risk of non-severe hypoglycaemia and less weight gain 
associated with using insulin detemir compared with NPH insulin when initiating 
insulin treatment in insulin naïve patients with type 2 diabetes provide 
economic benefits in the short-term. Based on cost/QALY threshold values, this 
represents good value for money in the Nordic countries. Using a short-term 
modelling approach may be conservative, as reduced frequency of hypoglycaemia 
and less weight gain may also have positive long-term health-related 
implications.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.768999
PMID: 23384160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. J Palliat Med. 2013 Mar;16(3):256-62. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2012.0413. Epub 2013
Feb  5.

Clinical trial participation among ethnic/racial minority and majority patients 
with advanced cancer: what factors most influence enrollment?

Jimenez R(1), Zhang B, Joffe S, Nilsson M, Rivera L, Mutchler J, Lathan C, Paulk 
ME, Prigerson HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Harvard Radiation Oncology Program, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: Studies using administrative data report that racial/ethnic minority 
patients enroll in clinical trials less frequently than white patients. We 
studied a cohort of terminally ill cancer patients to determine a) if 
racial/ethnic minority patients have lower rates of drug trial enrollment than 
white patients once socioeconomic characteristics are accounted for and b) what 
factors most influence drug trial enrollment among patients with advanced 
canceroverall.
METHODS: Coping with Cancer (CwC) is a National Cancer Institute/National 
Institute of Mental Health (NCI/NIMH)-funded multisite, prospective, 
longitudinal study of patients with advanced cancer. Baseline interviews 
assessed drug trial enrollment as well as socioeconomic characteristics. 
Logistic regression models estimated associations between drug trial enrollment 
and baseline characteristics. Stepwise, backward, and subset model selection was 
applied to select the final model where characteristics significant at α=0.05 
remained in the model.
RESULTS: At a median of 4.4 months prior to death, 35 of 358 patients (9.8%) 
were enrolled in a drug trial. In unadjusted analyses, race/ethnicity, health 
insurance, performance status, recruitment site, cancer type, preference for 
life-extending care, and lack of end-of-life care planning were associated 
(p<0.05) with enrollment. In multivariable analysis, patient race/ethnicity was 
not significantly associated with enrollment. Patients who reported not having 
an end-of-life discussion (adjusted odds ratio [AOR], 0.18; 95% confidence 
interval [CI] 0.04-0.83) and those not wanting to discuss life expectancy (AOR, 
0.31; 95%CI 0.12-0.79) were more likely to be trial enrollees.
CONCLUSION: Patient race/ethnicity was not associated with clinical trial 
enrollment after adjustment for socioeconomic covariates. Patients with advanced 
cancer endorsing less engagement in end-of-life planning were more likely to be 
enrolled in a clinical trial.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2012.0413
PMCID: PMC3670563
PMID: 23384245 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Neuropathology. 2013 Oct;33(5):491-504. doi: 10.1111/neup.12020. Epub 2013
Feb  5.

Neural stem cell-based treatment for neurodegenerative diseases.

Kim SU(1), Lee HJ, Kim YB.

Author information:
(1)Medical Research Institute, Chung-Ang University College of Medicine, Seoul, 
Korea; Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, UBC Hospital, University 
of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

Human neurodegenerative diseases such as Parkinson's disease (PD), Huntington's 
disease (HD), amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) and Alzheimer's disease (AD) 
are caused by a loss of neurons and glia in the brain or spinal cord. Neurons 
and glial cells have successfully been generated from stem cells such as 
embryonic stem cells (ESCs), mesenchymal stem cells (MSCs) and neural stem cells 
(NSCs), and stem cell-based cell therapies for neurodegenerative diseases have 
been developed. A recent advance in generation of a new class of pluripotent 
stem cells, induced pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs), derived from patients' own 
skin fibroblasts, opens doors for a totally new field of personalized medicine. 
Transplantation of NSCs, neurons or glia generated from stem cells in animal 
models of neurodegenerative diseases, including PD, HD, ALS and AD, demonstrates 
clinical improvement and also life extension of these animals. Additional 
therapeutic benefits in these animals can be provided by stem cell-mediated gene 
transfer of therapeutic genes such as neurotrophic factors and enzymes. Although 
further research is still needed, cell and gene therapy based on stem cells, 
particularly using neurons and glia derived from iPSCs, ESCs or NSCs, will 
become a routine treatment for patients suffering from neurodegenerative 
diseases and also stroke and spinal cord injury.

© 2013 Japanese Society of Neuropathology.

DOI: 10.1111/neup.12020
PMID: 23384285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Vaccine. 2013 Apr 3;31(14):1864-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.01.020. Epub
2013  Feb 4.

Economic evaluation of universal newborn hepatitis B vaccination in China.

Lu SQ(1), McGhee SM, Xie X, Cheng J, Fielding R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, School of Public Health, the University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong Special Administrative Region, China.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the long-term cost-effectiveness of universal newborn 
hepatitis B vaccination in China, an area of high endemicity.
METHOD: A decision tree was used to describe perinatal hepatitis B virus (HBV) 
transmission, early infection and impact of vaccination. A Markov model based on 
1-year cycles was used to simulate these impacts for the lifetime of a cohort of 
10,000,000 infants born in 2002 in China. We compared both cost and health 
outcomes for two strategies: universal newborn vaccination comprising a timely 
birth dose (HepB1) with a three-dose vaccination (HepB3) compared with no 
vaccination. Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses using Monte Carlo 
simulations were performed to test parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: Over the cohort's lifetime, 79,966 chronic infections, 37,553 cases of 
hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) and 130,796 HBV related deaths would be prevented 
by universal infant vaccination. The prevalence of HBV infection is reduced by 
76%. Over 743,000 life-years and 620,000 quality adjusted life years (QALYs) 
would be gained and there would be monetary benefits of more than 1 billion US 
dollars in medical care costs and lost productivity avoided.
CONCLUSION: The newborn vaccination programme for Hepatitis B in China both 
gains QALYs and saves medical care costs. It is important to ensure that timely 
and comprehensive vaccination programmes continue.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.01.020
PMID: 23384752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. J Insect Physiol. 2013 Apr;59(4):466-74. doi:
10.1016/j.jinsphys.2013.01.011.  Epub 2013 Feb 4.

Phenoloxidase activity among developmental stages and pupal cell types of the 
