Heart failure, comorbidities, and polypharmacy among elderly nursing home 
residents.

Michalik C(1), Matusik P, Nowak J, Chmielowska K, Tomaszewski KA, Parnicka A, 
Dubiel M, Gąsowski J, Grodzicki T.

Author information:
(1)Jagiellonian University Medical College, Kraków, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: Heart failure (HF) in the elderly is frequently associated with 
limited therapeutic options and may cause severe complications. Unfortunately, 
these patients are often excluded from clinical trials.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to determine the relationship between HF, 
coexisting diseases, and use of medications in patients of advanced age living 
in nursing homes.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The study group included 79 women and 21 men between 65 
and 102 years of age living in 2 nursing homes. Information about the health 
status of patients was gathered from history and medical records. We conducted a 
physical examination and, in eligible cases, also an orthostatic test. 
Comorbidity was assessed using the age‑adjusted Charlson comorbidity index 
(ACCI).
RESULTS: The prevalence of HF was 26%. The number of chronic diseases coexisting 
with HF was remarkably higher than the number of diseases among patients without 
HF (median, 6 [0-11] vs. 3 [0-8]; P <0.0001). The ACCI was also higher in the HF 
group compared with patients without HF (median, 7 [5-12] vs. 5.5 [2-9]; P 
<0.0001). Patients with HF took significantly more medications, although HF was 
treated according to the current guidelines in less than half of the cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Our data revealed that HF is associated with significant morbidity 
and polypharmacy. There is a need for further research that would guide therapy 
of HF in elderly patients with limited life expectancy and multiple 
comorbidities as inhabitants of nursing homes. Nonetheless, the current 
treatment of nursing home patients with HF seems to be suboptimal.

DOI: 10.20452/pamw.1682
PMID: 23535769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 Apr;15(3):243-52. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0470-7.
Epub  2013 Mar 28.

Economic evaluation of nurse-led intensive care follow-up programmes compared 
with standard care: the PRaCTICaL trial.

Hernández RA(1), Jenkinson D, Vale L, Cuthbertson BH.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit (HERU), Institute of Applied Health Sciences, 
College of Life Sciences and Medicine, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

OBJECTIVE: Following intensive care discharge, many patients suffer severe 
physical and psychological morbidity and a continuing high use of health 
services. Follow-up programmes have been proposed to improve the outcomes for 
these patients. We tested the hypothesis that nurse-led intensive care follow-up 
programmes are cost-effective.
METHODS: A pragmatic, multicentre, randomised controlled trial of nurse-led 
intensive care unit follow-up programmes versus standard care. A cost-utility 
analysis was conducted after 12 months' follow-up to compare the two 
interventions. Costs were assessed from the perspective of the UK NHS and 
outcomes were measured in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) based upon 
responses to the EQ-5D administered at baseline, 6 and 12 months.
RESULTS: A total of 286 patients were recruited to the trial. Total mean cost 
was £ 5,789 for standard care and £ 7,577 for the discharge clinic. The adjusted 
difference in means was £ 2,435 [95 % confidence interval (CI) -297 to 5,566]. 
Mean QALYs were 0.58 for standard care and 0.60 for the discharge clinic. The 
adjusted mean difference was -0.003 (95 % CI -0.066 to 0.060). If society were 
willing to pay £ 20,000 per QALY then there would be a 93 % chance that standard 
care would be considered most efficient.
CONCLUSIONS: A nurse-led intensive care unit (ICU) follow-up programme showed no 
evidence of being cost-effective at 12 months. Further work should focus on 
evidence-based development of discharge clinic services and current ICU 
follow-up programmes should review their practice in light of these results.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0470-7
PMID: 23535984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e59801. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0059801. Epub 2013 Mar
25.

Repeatable construction method for engineered zinc finger nuclease based on 
overlap extension PCR and TA-cloning.

Fujii W(1), Kano K, Sugiura K, Naito K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Resource Sciences, Graduate School of Agricultural and 
Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan. wtrfj.watarufujii@gmail.com

Zinc finger nuclease (ZFN) is a useful tool for endogenous site-directed genome 
modification. The development of an easier, less expensive and repeatedly usable 
construction method for various sequences of ZFNs should contribute to the 
further widespread use of this technology. Here, we establish a novel 
construction method for ZFNs. Zinc finger (ZF) fragments were synthesized by PCR 
using short primers coding DNA recognition helices of the ZF domain. DNA-binding 
domains composed of 4 to 6 ZFs were synthesized by overlap extension PCR of 
these PCR products, and the DNA-binding domains were joined with a nuclease 
vector by TA cloning. The short primers coding unique DNA recognition helices 
can be used repeatedly for other ZFN constructions. By using this novel OLTA 
(OverLap extension PCR and TA-cloning) method, arbitrary ZFN vectors were 
synthesized within 3 days, from the designing to the sequencing of the vector. 
Four different ZFN sets synthesized by OLTA showed nuclease activities at 
endogenous target loci. Genetically modified mice were successfully generated 
using ZFN vectors constructed by OLTA. This method, which enables the 
construction of intended ZFNs repeatedly and inexpensively in a short period of 
time, should contribute to the advancement of ZFN technology.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0059801
PMCID: PMC3607563
PMID: 23536890 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


632. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Mar;17(12):1-323. doi: 10.3310/hta17120.

Positron emission tomography/computerised tomography imaging in detecting and 
managing recurrent cervical cancer: systematic review of evidence, elicitation 
of subjective probabilities and economic modelling.

Meads C(1), Auguste P, Davenport C, Małysiak S, Sundar S, Kowalska M, Zapalska 
A, Guest P, Thangaratinam S, Martin-Hirsch P, Borowiack E, Barton P, Roberts T, 
Khan K.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Primary Care and Public Health, Barts and The London School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary, University of London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Cancer of the uterine cervix is a common cause of mortality in 
women. After initial treatment women may be symptom free, but the cancer may 
recur within a few years. It is uncertain whether it is more clinically 
effective to survey asymptomatic women for signs of recurrence or to await 
symptoms or signs before using imaging.
OBJECTIVES: This project compared the diagnostic accuracy of imaging using 
positron emission tomography/computerised tomography (PET-CT) with that of 
imaging using CT or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) alone and evaluated the 
cost-effectiveness of adding PET-CT as an adjunct to standard practice.
DATA SOURCES: Standard systematic review methods were used to obtain and 
evaluate relevant test accuracy and effectiveness studies. Databases searched 
included MEDLINE, EMBASE, Science Citation Index and The Cochrane Library. All 
databases were searched from inception to May 2010.
REVIEW METHODS: Study quality was assessed using appropriately modified Quality 
Assessment of Diagnostic Accuracy Studies (QUADAS) criteria. Included were any 
studies of PET-CT, MRI or CT compared with the reference standard of 
histopathological findings or clinical follow-up in symptomatic women suspected 
of having recurrent or persistent cervical cancer and in asymptomatic women a 
minimum of 3 months after completion of primary treatment. Subjective 
elicitation of expert opinion was used to supplement diagnostic information 
needed for the economic evaluation. The effectiveness of treatment with 
chemotherapy, radiotherapy, chemoradiotherapy, radical hysterectomy and pelvic 
exenteration was systematically reviewed. Meta-analysis was carried out in 
RevMan 5.1 (The Cochrane Collaboration, The Nordic Cochrane Centre, Copenhagen, 
Denmark) and Stata version 11 (StataCorp LP, College Station, Texas, USA). A 
Markov model was developed to compare the relative cost-effectiveness using 
TreeAge Pro software version 2011 (TreeAge Software Inc., Evanston, IL, USA).
RESULTS: For the diagnostic review, a total of 7524 citations were identified, 
of which 12 test accuracy studies were included in the review: six studies 
evaluated PET-CT, two evaluated MRI, three evaluated CT and one evaluated both 
MRI and CT. All studies were small and the majority evaluated imaging in women 
in whom recurrence was suspected on the basis of symptoms. The PET-CT studies 
evaluated local and distant recurrence and most used methods similar to current 
practice, whereas five of the six CT and MRI studies evaluated local recurrence 
only and not all employed currently used methods. Meta-analysis of PET-CT 
studies gave a sensitivity of 92.2% [95% confidence interval (CI) 85.1% to 
96.0%] and a specificity of 88.1% (95% CI 77.9% to 93.9%). MRI sensitivities and 
specificities varied between 82% and 100% and between 78% and 100%, 
respectively, and CT sensitivities and specificities varied between 78% and 93% 
and between 0% and 95%, respectively. One small study directly compared PET-CT 
with older imaging methods and showed more true-positives and fewer 
false-negatives with PET-CT. The subjective elicitation from 21 clinical experts 
gave test accuracy results for asymptomatic and symptomatic women and the 
results for symptomatic women were similar to those from the published 
literature. Their combined opinions also suggested that the mean elicited 
increase in accuracy from the addition of PET-CT to MRI and/or CT was less than 
the elicited minimum important difference in accuracy required to justify the 
routine addition of PET-CT for the investigation of women after completion of 
primary treatment. For the effectiveness review, a total of 24,943 citations 
were identified, of which 62 studies were included (chemotherapy, 19 randomised 
controlled trials; radiotherapy or chemoradiotherapy, 16 case series; radical 
hysterectomy and pelvic exenteration, 27 case series). None provided the 
effectiveness of cisplatin monotherapy, the most commonly used chemotherapeutic 
agent in the NHS, compared with supportive care in a background of other 
treatment such as radiotherapy in recurrent and persistent cervical cancer. The 
model results showed that adding PET-CT to the current treatment strategy of 
clinical examination, MRI and/or CT scan was significantly more costly with only 
a minimal increase in effectiveness, with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
for all models being > £1M per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and the 
additional cost per additional case of recurrence being in the region of 
£600,000.
LIMITATIONS: There was considerable uncertainty in many of the parameters used 
because of a lack of good-quality evidence in recurrent or persistent cervical 
cancer. The evidence on diagnostic and therapeutic impact incorporated in the 
economic model was poor and there was little information on surveillance of 
asymptomatic women.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the current evidence available, the addition of PET-CT to 
standard practice was not found to be cost-effective in the diagnosis of 
recurrent or persistent cervical cancer. However, although probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis showed that the main conclusion about cost-ineffectiveness 
of PET-CT was firm given the range of assumptions made, should more reliable 
information become available on accuracy, therapeutic impact and effectiveness, 
and the cost of PET-CT reduce, this conclusion may need revision. Current 
guidelines recommending imaging for diagnosis using expensive methods such as 
PET-CT need to be reconsidered in the light of the above.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17120
PMCID: PMC4780953
PMID: 23537558 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. J Formos Med Assoc. 2013 Apr;112(4):221-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jfma.2011.08.020.
Epub  2012 Apr 30.

A pharmaco-economic evaluation of deferasirox for treating patients with iron 
overload caused by transfusion-dependent thalassemia in Taiwan.

Ho WL(1), Chung KP, Yang SS, Lu MY, Jou ST, Chang HH, Yang YL, Lin DT, Lin KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Shin Kong Wu Ho-Su Memorial Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan. q96421011@ntu.edu.tw

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: The newly available iron chelator deferasirox (Exjade, 
Novartis) is expected to provide better long-term clinical outcomes and improved 
quality of life for patients with thalassemia than its predecessor, deferoxamine 
(Desferal, Novartis), because of its oral tablet form.
METHODS: We used the Markov model to estimate total additional lifetime costs 
and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained with deferasirox versus 
deferoxamine in patients with transfusion-dependent thalassemia. Patients were 
assumed to be 2 years of age at initiation of chelation therapy. Clinical 
outcomes in terms of morbidity and mortality from associated complications and 
life expectancy for the study population were estimated using the databases of 
the Bureau of National Health Insurance and the Health and Vital Statistics of 
Taiwan. Treatment costs were based on analyses of health insurance claims for 
patients with transfusion-dependent thalassemia. Utilities in terms of quality 
of life were also included in the model. The incremental cost-utility ratio of 
deferasirox versus deferoxamine was defined by the ratio of the difference in 
expected lifetime costs to the difference in QALYs. One-way sensitivity analyses 
were performed to examine the robustness of the results to key assumptions.
RESULTS: Patients treated with deferasirox are expected to experience a lower 
incidence of associated complications and obtain 2.3 QALYs (discounted) at an 
additional lifetime cost of US$36,291 per patient (US$15,596 per QALY). 
Sensitivity analyses showed that the unit drug cost of deferasirox had the 
greatest impact on the incremental cost-utility ratio. In addition, the 
incremental cost-utility ratio will increase by delaying the starting age (2 
years of age in our study) of chelation therapy.
CONCLUSION: Compared with infusional deferoxamine, oral deferasirox improved 
clinical outcomes and quality of life in terms of iron chelation in 
transfusion-dependent patients with thalassemia at a reasonable cost from a 
healthcare perspective.

Copyright © 2012. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfma.2011.08.020
PMID: 23537869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Int J Cardiol. 2013 Sep 30;168(2):1654. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2013.03.008.
Epub  2013 Mar 26.

Women with atrial fibrillation in Qatar with special reference to gender 
difference: caution on the representativeness of non-Caucasian countries.

Kawada T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene and Public Health, Nippon Medical School, 1-1-5 
Sendagi, Bunkyo-Ku, Tokyo 113-8602, Japan. Electronic address: kawada@nms.ac.jp.

Comment on
    Int J Cardiol. 2013 Sep 30;168(2):975-80.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2013.03.008
PMID: 23538052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):251-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.002.
Epub  2013 Jan 23.

The comparison of trial data-based and registry data-based cost-effectiveness of 
infliximab treatment for rheumatoid arthritis in Sweden using a modeling 
approach.

Lekander I(1), Kobelt G, Svarvar P, Ljung T, van Vollenhoven R, Borgström F.

Author information:
(1)i3 Innovus, Stockholm, Sweden. ingrid.lekander@ki.se

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the precision of the predictive cost-effectiveness 
assessment based on a phase 3 clinical trial with infliximab for the treatment 
of rheumatoid arthritis in Swedish clinical practice.
METHODS: Three patient cohorts were identified: the patients included in the 
infliximab trial (ATTRACT), patients initially treated with infliximab from a 
Swedish registry (STURE), a subset of these registry patients meeting inclusion 
criteria for the ATTRACT trial was the third patient cohort; two sets of 
assumptions in relation to the efficacy data were evaluated: "ATTRACT" (efficacy 
data over the duration of the trial) and "STURE" (effectiveness data over 10 
years). In addition, the impact of including the placebo effect for the 
comparator was evaluated as a basis for the calculation of cost-effectiveness by 
using a modeling approach. A health economic model was utilized to estimate the 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: The results for the three patient cohorts ranged from cost saving to a 
cost per QALY gained of €2,400 and €24,900 to €26,000 when the ATTRACT and STURE 
assumptions were used, respectively. Sensitivity analyses indicated that the 
inclusion of placebo effect had the largest effect on the results, increasing 
the cost per QALY gained to approximately €50,000 for all patient cohorts.
CONCLUSIONS: The treatment effect of infliximab measured in clinical trials and 
clinical practice results in comparable cost-effectiveness ratios, as calculated 
by using a modeling approach, whereas the assumptions made in relation to the 
effectiveness data and the chosen comparator have a large impact on the results. 
This reinforces the value of early modeling studies based on randomized clinical 
trial data, but assumptions made need to be carefully assessed.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.002
PMID: 23538176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):267-79. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.10.020.
Epub  2013 Jan 26.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of early versus late total hip replacement in Italy.

Mota RE(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Service Research, University of Exeter Medical School, 
University of Exeter, Exeter, UK. R.E.Mujica-Mota@exeter.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of early primary total hip 
replacement (THR) for functionally independent older adult patients with 
osteoarthritis (OA) versus 1) nonsurgical therapy followed by THR once the 
patient has progressed to a functionally dependent state ("delayed THR") and 2) 
nonsurgical therapy alone ('medical therapy'), from the Italian National Health 
Service perspective.
METHODS: Individual patient data and evidence from published literature on 
disease progression, economic costs and THR outcomes in OA, including utilities, 
perioperative mortality rates, prosthesis survival, and costs of prostheses, 
THR, rehabilitation, follow-up, revision, and nonsurgical management, combined 
with population life tables, were synthesized in a Markov model of OA. The model 
represents the lifetime experience of a patient cohort following their treatment 
choice, discounting costs and benefits (quality-adjusted life-years) at 3% 
annually.
RESULTS: At age 65 years, the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year of 
THR over delayed THR was €987 in men and €466 in women; the figures for delayed 
THR versus medical therapy were €463 and €82, respectively. Among 80-year-olds, 
early THR is (extended) dominant. With gradual utility loss after primary THR, 
delaying surgery may be more appealing in women than in men in their 50s, 
because longer female life expectancy implies longer latter periods of low 
health-related quality of life (HRQOL) with early THR.
CONCLUSIONS: THR is cost-effective. Patients' HRQOL benefits forgone with 
delayed THR are worth more than the costs it saves to the Italian National 
Health Service. This analysis might help to explain women's consistently lower 
HRQOL by the time of primary operation.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.10.020
PMID: 23538178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):288-96. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.001.
Epub  2013 Jan 23.

Cost-effectiveness of cetuximab, cetuximab plus irinotecan, and panitumumab for 
third and further lines of treatment for KRAS wild-type patients with metastatic 
colorectal cancer.

Hoyle M(1), Peters J, Crathorne L, Jones-Hughes T, Cooper C, Napier M, Hyde C.

Author information:
(1)Peninsula Technology Assessment Group (PenTAG), Medical School, University of 
Exeter, Exeter, UK. martin.hoyle@pms.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of cetuximab monotherapy, 
cetuximab plus irinotecan, and panitumumab monotherapy compared with best 
supportive care (BSC) for the third and subsequent lines of treatment of 
patients with Kirsten rat sarcoma wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer from 
the perspective of the UK National Health Service.
METHODS: An "an area under the curve" cost-effectiveness model was developed. 
The clinical effectiveness evidence for both cetuximab and panitumumab was taken 
from a single randomized controlled trial (RCT) in each case and for cetuximab 
plus irinotecan from several sources.
RESULTS: Patients are predicted to survive for approximately 6 months on BSC, 
8.5 months on panitumumab, 10 months on cetuximab, and 16.5 months on cetuximab 
plus irinotecan. Panitumumab is dominated, and cetuximab is extended dominated. 
An incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £95,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) was estimated for cetuximab versus BSC and is likely to be 
relatively accurate, because the relevant clinical evidence is taken from a 
high-quality RCT. The estimated ICER for panitumumab versus BSC, at £187,000 per 
QALY, is less certain due to assumptions in the adjustment for the substantial 
crossing-over of patients in the RCT. The ICER for cetuximab plus irinotecan 
versus BSC, at £88,000 per QALY, is least certain due to substantial uncertainty 
about progression-free survival, treatment duration, and overall survival. 
Nonetheless, when key parameters are varied within plausible ranges, all three 
treatments always remain poor value for money.
CONCLUSIONS: All three treatments are highly unlikely to be considered 
cost-effective in this patient population in the United Kingdom. We explain how 
the reader can adapt the model for other countries.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.001
PMID: 23538180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):297-304. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.004.
Epub  2013 Jan 29.

Cost-effectiveness analysis evaluating fidaxomicin versus oral vancomycin for 
the treatment of Clostridium difficile infection in the United States.

Stranges PM(1), Hutton DW, Collins CD.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Fidaxomicin is a novel treatment for Clostridium difficile 
infections (CDIs). This new treatment, however, is associated with a higher 
acquisition cost compared with alternatives. The objective of this study was to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of fidaxomicin or oral vancomycin for the 
treatment of CDIs.
METHODS: We performed a cost-utility analysis comparing fidaxomicin with oral 
vancomycin for the treatment of CDIs in the United States by creating a decision 
analytic model from the third-party payer perspective.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio with fidaxomicin compared with 
oral vancomycin was $67,576/quality-adjusted life-year. A probabilistic Monte 
Carlo sensitivity analysis showed that fidaxomicin had an 80.2% chance of being 
cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000/quality-adjusted 
life-year. Fidaxomicin remained cost-effective under all fluctuations of both 
fidaxomicin and oral vancomycin costs. The decision analytic model was sensitive 
to variations in clinical cure and recurrence rates. Secondary analyses revealed 
that fidaxomicin was cost-effective in patients receiving concominant 
antimicrobials, in patients with mild to moderate CDIs, and when compared with 
oral metronidazole in patients with mild to moderate disease. Fidaxomicin was 
dominated by oral vancomycin if CDI was caused by the NAP1/Bl/027 Clostridium 
difficile strain and was dominant in institutions that did not compound oral 
vancomycin.
CONCLUSION: Results of our model showed that fidaxomicin may be a more 
cost-effective option for the treatment of CDIs when compared with oral 
vancomycin under most scenarios tested.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.004
PMID: 23538181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):311-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.009.

Cost-effectiveness of a program to eliminate disparities in pneumococcal 
vaccination rates in elderly minority populations: an exploratory analysis.

Michaelidis CI(1), Zimmerman RK, Nowalk MP, Smith KJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA. 
michaelidis.constant@medstudent.pitt.edu

OBJECTIVE: Invasive pneumococcal disease is a major cause of preventable 
morbidity and mortality in the United States, particularly among the elderly 
(>65 years). There are large racial disparities in pneumococcal vaccination 
rates in this population. Here, we estimate the cost-effectiveness of a 
hypothetical national vaccination intervention program designed to eliminate 
racial disparities in pneumococcal vaccination in the elderly.
METHODS: In an exploratory analysis, a Markov decision-analysis model was 
developed, taking a societal perspective and assuming a 1-year cycle length, 
10-year vaccination program duration, and lifetime time horizon. In the 
base-case analysis, it was conservatively assumed that vaccination program 
promotion costs were $10 per targeted minority elder per year, regardless of 
prior vaccination status and resulted in the elderly African American and 
Hispanic pneumococcal vaccination rate matching the elderly Caucasian 
vaccination rate (65%) in year 10 of the program.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness of the vaccination program relative 
to no program was $45,161 per quality-adjusted life-year gained in the base-case 
analysis. In probabilistic sensitivity analyses, the likelihood of the 
vaccination program being cost-effective at willingness-to-pay thresholds of 
$50,000 and $100,000 per quality-adjusted life-year gained was 64% and 100%, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In a conservative analysis biased against the vaccination program, 
a national vaccination intervention program to ameliorate racial disparities in 
pneumococcal vaccination would be cost-effective.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.009
PMCID: PMC3733787
PMID: 23538183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):325-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.011.

The cost-effectiveness of the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system for 
the treatment of idiopathic heavy menstrual bleeding in the United States.

Ganz ML(1), Shah D, Gidwani R, Filonenko A, Su W, Pocoski J, Law A.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, Lexington, MA 02420, USA. 
michael.ganz@unitedbiosource.com

OBJECTIVES: Heavy menstrual bleeding negatively impacts the health and quality 
of life of about 18 million women in the United States. Although some studies 
have established the clinical effectiveness of heavy menstrual bleeding 
treatments, few have evaluated their cost-effectiveness. Our objective was to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine 
system (LNG-IUS) compared with other therapies for idiopathic heavy menstrual 
bleeding.
METHODS: We developed a model comparing the clinical and economic outcomes (from 
a US payer perspective) of three broad initial treatment strategies over 5 
years: LNG-IUS, oral agents, or surgery. Up to three nonsurgical treatment 
lines, followed by up to two surgical lines, were allowed; unintended pregnancy 
was possible, and women could discontinue any time during nonsurgical 
treatments. Menstrual blood loss of 80 ml or more per cycle determined treatment 
failure.
RESULTS: Initiating treatment with LNG-IUS resulted in the fewest hysterectomies 
(6 per 1000 women), the most quality-adjusted life-years (3.78), and the lowest 
costs ($1137) among all the nonsurgical strategies. Initiating treatment with 
LNG-IUS was also less costly than surgery, resulted in fewer hysterectomies (vs. 
9 per 1000 for ablation) but was associated with fewer quality-adjusted 
life-years gained per patient (vs. 3.80 and 3.88 for ablation and hysterectomy, 
respectively). Sensitivity analyses confirmed these results.
CONCLUSIONS: LNG-IUS resulted in the lowest treatment costs and the fewest 
number of hysterectomies performed over 5 years compared with all other initial 
strategies and resulted in the most quality-adjusted life-years gained among 
nonsurgical options. Initial treatment with LNG-IUS is the least costly and most 
effective option for women desiring to preserve their fertility.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.011
PMID: 23538185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):334-44. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.12.006.

The cost-effectiveness of duloxetine in chronic low back pain: a US private 
payer perspective.

Wielage RC(1), Bansal M, Andrews JS, Wohlreich MM, Klein RW, Happich M.

Author information:
(1)Medical Decision Modeling Inc., Indianapolis, IN 46268, USA. 
rwielage@mdm-inc.com

Comment in
    Value Health. 2013 Dec;16(8):1172.
    Value Health. 2013 Dec;16(8):1173-4.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of duloxetine in the treatment of 
chronic low back pain (CLBP) from a US private payer perspective.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was undertaken for duloxetine and seven oral 
post-first-line comparators, including nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs 
(NSAIDs), weak and strong opioids, and an anticonvulsant. We created a Markov 
model on the basis of the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence 
model documented in its 2008 osteoarthritis clinical guidelines. Health states 
included treatment, death, and 12 states associated with serious adverse events 
(AEs). We estimated treatment-specific utilities by carrying out a meta-analysis 
of pain scores from CLBP clinical trials and developing a transfer-to-utility 
equation using duloxetine CLBP patient-level data. Probabilities of AEs were 
taken from the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence model or 
estimated from osteoarthritis clinical trials by using a novel 
maximum-likelihood simulation technique. Costs were gathered from Red Book, 
Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality's Healthcare Cost and Utilization 
Project database, the literature, and, for a limited number of inputs, expert 
opinion. The model performed one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses and 
generated incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) and cost acceptability 
curves.
RESULTS: The model estimated an ICER of $59,473 for duloxetine over naproxen. 
ICERs under $30,000 were estimated for duloxetine over non-NSAIDs, with 
duloxetine dominating all strong opioids. In subpopulations at a higher risk of 
NSAID-related AEs, the ICER over naproxen was $33,105 or lower.
CONCLUSIONS: Duloxetine appears to be a cost-effective post-first-line treatment 
for CLBP compared with all but generic NSAIDs. In subpopulations at risk of 
NSAID-related AEs, it is particularly cost-effective.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.12.006
PMID: 23538186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):345-55. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.12.003.

Understanding the costs of care for cystic fibrosis: an analysis by age and 
health state.

van Gool K(1), Norman R, Delatycki MB, Hall J, Massie J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, University of 
Technology, Sydney, NSW, Australia. kees.vangool@chere.uts.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited disease that requires more 
intensive treatments as the disease progresses. Recent medical advancements have 
improved survival but have also increased costs. Our lack of understanding on 
the relationship between disease severity and lifetime health care costs is a 
major impediment to the timely economic assessment of new treatments.
METHODS: Using data from three waves of the Australian Cystic Fibrosis Australia 
Data Registry, we estimate the annual costs of CF care by age and health state. 
We define health states on the basis of annual lung-function scores and 
patient's organ transplant status. We exploit the longitudinal nature of the 
data to model disease progression, and we use this to estimate lifetime health 
care costs.
RESULTS: The mean annual health care cost for treating CF is US $15,571. Costs 
for patients with mild, moderate, and severe disease are US $10,151, US $25,647, 
and US $33,691, respectively. Lifetime health care costs are approximately US 
$306,332 (3.5% discount rate). The majority of costs are accounted for by 
hospital inpatients (58%), followed by pharmaceuticals (29%), medical services 
(10%), complications (2%), and diagnostic tests (1%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study is the first of its kind using the Australian Cystic 
Fibrosis Data Registry, and demonstrates the utility of longitudinal registry 
data for the purpose of economic analysis. Our results can be used as an input 
to future economic evaluations by providing analysts with a better understanding 
of the long-term cost impact when new treatments are developed.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.12.003
PMID: 23538187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):356-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.12.008.

The cost-effectiveness of a novel SIAscopic diagnostic aid for the management of 
pigmented skin lesions in primary care: a decision-analytic model.

Wilson EC(1), Emery JD, Kinmonth AL, Prevost AT, Morris HC, Humphrys E, Hall PN, 
Burrows N, Bradshaw L, Walls J, Norris P, Johnson M, Walter FM.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK. 
ed.wilson@uea.ac.uk

OBJECTIVES: Pigmented skin lesions are commonly presented in primary care. 
Appropriate diagnosis and management is challenging because the vast majority 
are benign. The MoleMate system is a handheld SIAscopy scanner integrated with a 
primary care diagnostic algorithm aimed at improving the management of pigmented 
skin lesions in primary care.
METHODS: This decision-model-based economic evaluation draws on the results of a 
randomized controlled trial of the MoleMate system versus best practice 
(ISRCTN79932379) to estimate the expected long-term cost and health gain of 
diagnosis with the MoleMate system versus best practice in an English primary 
care setting. The model combines trial results with data from the wider 
literature to inform long-term prognosis, health state utilities, and cost.
RESULTS: Results are reported as mean and incremental cost and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained, incremental cost-effectiveness ratio with 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, and value of information analysis. Over a 
lifetime horizon, the MoleMate system is expected to cost an extra £18 over best 
practice alone, and yield an extra 0.01 QALYs per patient examined. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio is £1,896 per QALY gained, with a 66.1% 
probability of being below £30,000 per QALY gained. The expected value of 
perfect information is £43.1 million.
CONCLUSIONS: Given typical thresholds in the United Kingdom (£20,000-£30,000 per 
QALY), the MoleMate system may be cost-effective compared with best practice 
diagnosis alone in a primary care setting. However, there is considerable 
decision uncertainty, driven particularly by the sensitivity and specificity of 
MoleMate versus best practice, and the risk of disease progression in 
undiagnosed melanoma; future research should focus on reducing uncertainty in 
these parameters.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.12.008
PMID: 23538188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):373-84. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.12.004.

Predicting SF-6D from the European Organization for Treatment and Research of 
Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaire scores in patients with colorectal cancer.

Wong CK(1), Lam CL, Wan YF, Rowen D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, The University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong.

OBJECTIVES: To develop a mapping model for estimating six-dimensional health 
state short form (SF-6D) utility scores from the European Organization for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality of Life Questionnaires (QLQ-C30 and 
QLQ-CR29) scores in patients with colorectal cancer (CRC), with and without 
adjustment for clinical and demographic characteristics.
METHODS: Ordinary least squares regression models were applied to a 
cross-sectional data set of 216 patients with CRC collected from a regional 
hospital in Hong Kong. Item responses or scale scores of cancer-specific 
(QLQ-C30) and colorectal-specific health-related quality-of-life (QLQ-CR38/CR29) 
data and selected demographic and clinical characteristics of patients were used 
to predict the SF-6D scores. Model goodness of fit was examined by using 
exploratory power (R(2) and adjusted R(2)), Akaike information criterion, and 
Bayesian information criterion, and predictive performance was evaluated by 
using root mean square error, mean absolute error, and Spearman's correlation 
coefficients between predicted and observed SF-6D scores. Models were validated 
by using an independent data set of 56 patients with CRC.
RESULTS: Both scale and item response models explained more than 67% of the 
variation in SF-6D scores. The best-performing model based on goodness of fit 
(R(2) = 75.02%), predictive ability in the estimation (root mean square error = 
0.080, mean absolute error = 0.065), and validation data set prediction (root 
mean square error = 0.103, mean absolute error = 0.081) included variables of 
main and interaction effects of the QLQ-C30 supplemented by QLQ-CR29 subset 
scale responses and a demographic (sex) variable.
CONCLUSIONS: SF-6D scores can be predicted from QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CR38/CR29 scores 
with satisfactory precision in patients with CRC. The mapping model can be 
applied to QLQ-C30 and QLQ-CR38/CR29 data sets to produce utility scores for the 
appraisal of clinical interventions targeting patients with CRC using economic 
evaluation.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.12.004
PMID: 23538190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):394-402. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.12.005.

Mapping EQ-5D utility scores from the Incontinence Quality of Life Questionnaire 
among patients with neurogenic and idiopathic overactive bladder.

Kay S(1), Tolley K, Colayco D, Khalaf K, Anderson P, Globe D.

Author information:
(1)Adelphi Real World, Macclesfield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To provide a mapping algorithm for estimating EuroQol 
five-dimensional (EQ-5D) questionnaire index scores from the 
Incontinence-specific Quality of Life questionnaire (I-QOL) based on nationally 
representative samples of patients with idiopathic or neurogenic overactive 
bladder (OAB) using EQ-5D questionnaire preference valuations based on both the 
UK and US general populations.
METHODS: Analyses were conducted for 2505 patients from the Adelphi Overactive 
Bladder Disease Specific Programme, a cross-sectional study of patients with 
idiopathic or neurogenic OAB, undertaken in the United States and Europe in 
2010. A range of statistical modeling techniques was used. Tenfold 
cross-validation techniques were used to calculate mean absolute error (MAE) and 
root mean squared error (RMSE) goodness-of-fit statistics. Various predictor 
lists, together with a method combining stepwise selection with multivariable 
fractional polynomial techniques to allow nonlinear relationships to feature, 
were pursued.
RESULTS: Choice of predictors was consistent for both the UK and US EQ-5D 
questionnaire tariffs. For idiopathic, the best model included the I-QOL total 
score and age (both modeled nonlinearly.) For neurogenic, the best model was the 
I-QOL social embarrassment domain score modeled linearly only. Best-fit results 
were better in the idiopathic (n = 2351; MAE = 0.10; RMSE = 0.14) than in the 
neurogenic sample (n = 254; MAE = 0.17; RMSE = 0.22).
CONCLUSIONS: This research provides algorithms for mapping EQ-5D questionnaire 
index scores from the I-QOL, allowing calculation of appropriate 
preference-based health-related quality-of-life scores for use in 
cost-effectiveness analyses when only I-QOL data are available. The strongest 
results were for idiopathic patients, but those for neurogenic are consistent 
with those of other published mapping studies.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.12.005
PMID: 23538192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Value Health. 2013 Mar-Apr;16(2):426-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.006.
Epub  2013 Jan 29.

Assessing the determinants of the potential for cost-effectiveness over time: 
the empirical case of COPD.

Camejo RR(1), McGrath C, Herings R, Starkie H, Rutten F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. rodrigo.refoioscamejo@gmail.com

OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to assess the potential for 
cost-effectiveness of new technologies for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease 
(COPD) over the period from 2001 to 2010.
METHODS: Lung function outcomes and drug prices were observed for a UK COPD 
population over the period from 2001 to 2010. Cost-effectiveness was assessed at 
regular intervals on the basis of an established cost-effectiveness model, and 
the maximum price a technology providing cure could achieve under the current 
cost-effectiveness rules was estimated.
RESULTS: The results of this study show that although the scope for clinical 
improvement in COPD was still considerable, during the 10 years studied, the 
potential for cost-effectiveness at each point in time was dependent on 
momentary market characteristics, such as the changing price of comparators and 
improvements in clinical effectiveness. As a result, the analysis demonstrates 
that the future cost-effectiveness of a technology in development depends on the 
manner pricing and clinical effectiveness evolve throughout time.
CONCLUSIONS: Because any predictions will be short-lived and dependent on a 
number of uncertain factors, we conclude that producing accurate forecasts on 
the potential for cost-effectiveness of new therapies earlier during the 
development process is especially difficult under the current static 
cost-effectiveness framework.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2012.11.006
PMID: 23538195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Pediatr Infect Dis J. 2013 Sep;32(9):e355-9. doi:
10.1097/INF.0b013e3182930694.

Changes in infectious disease mortality in children during the past three 
decades.

Lantto M(1), Renko M, Uhari M.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Pediatrics, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland.

BACKGROUND: Our aim was to evaluate changes in infectious disease mortality in 
children in Finland from 1969 to 2004. We especially wanted to find out whether 
infection mortality could be further reduced by means of existing vaccines not 
included in national vaccination program.
METHODS: We analyzed infectious disease mortality in Finland using data obtained 
from the official Cause of Death statistics for 1969 to 2004. Annual mortality 
rates were calculated in proportion to those at risk of dying. Infection 
mortality rates were calculated separately for neonates and children who were 1 
month to 15 years.
RESULTS: Childhood mortality due to infectious diseases decreased by 89%, from 
0.12% in 1969 to 0.013% in 2004, and neonatal mortality by 69%, from 0.50% to 
0.16%. Pneumonia, central nervous system infections and septicemia were the most 
common fatal infections in childhood. There were slightly more deaths due to all 
infections and respiratory tract infections in years marked by epidemics of 
respiratory syncytial virus. We estimated that pneumococcal conjugate vaccines 
would have prevented 2 deaths annually in our population, rotavirus vaccines 1 
to 2 deaths, influenza vaccine 1 death and varicella vaccine 0.7 death.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that even though mortality from infectious diseases in 
childhood decreased markedly during the period concerned, it could have been 
further reduced by means of existing vaccines. Even though the number of deaths 
prevented would have been small, the number of years of life saved would have 
been great because the life expectancy of children is long.

DOI: 10.1097/INF.0b013e3182930694
PMID: 23538525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. J Am Med Inform Assoc. 2013 Jun;20(e1):e118-24. doi: 
10.1136/amiajnl-2012-001360. Epub 2013 Mar 28.

Development of a 5 year life expectancy index in older adults using predictive 
mining of electronic health record data.

Mathias JS(1), Agrawal A, Feinglass J, Cooper AJ, Baker DW, Choudhary A.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois 60611, USA. 
j-mathias@md.northwestern.edu

OBJECTIVE: Incorporating accurate life expectancy predictions into clinical 
decision making could improve quality and decrease costs, but few providers do 
this. We sought to use predictive data mining and high dimensional analytics of 
electronic health record (EHR) data to develop a highly accurate and clinically 
actionable 5 year life expectancy index.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We developed the index using EHR data for 7463 patients 
≥50 years old with ≥1 visit(s) in 2003 to a large, academic, multispecialty 
group practice. We extracted 980 attributes from the EHRs of the practices and 
affiliated hospitals. Correlation feature selection with greedy stepwise search 
was used to find the attribute subset with best average merit. Rotation forest 
ensembling with alternating decision tree as underlying classifier was used to 
predict 5 year mortality. Model performance was compared with the modified 
Charlson Comorbidity Index and the Walter life expectancy method.
RESULTS: Within 5 years of the last visit in 2003, 838 (11%) patients had died. 
The final model included 24 attributes: two demographic (age, sex), 10 
comorbidity (eg, cardiovascular disease), one vital sign (mean diastolic blood 
pressure), two medications (loop diuretic use, digoxin use), six laboratory (eg, 
mean albumin), and three healthcare utilization (eg, the number of 
hospitalizations 1 year prior to the last visit in 2003). The index showed very 
good discrimination (c-statistic 0.86) and outperformed comparators.
CONCLUSIONS: The EHR based index successfully distinguished adults ≥50 years old 
with life expectancy >5 years from those with life expectancy ≤5 years. This 
information could be used clinically to optimize preventive service use (eg, 
cancer screening in the elderly).

DOI: 10.1136/amiajnl-2012-001360
PMCID: PMC3715340
PMID: 23538722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Nature. 2013 Mar 28;495(7442):452-3. doi: 10.1038/495452a.

Global health: Persuasive evidence on HIV policy.

John-Stewart G.

DOI: 10.1038/495452a
PMID: 23538824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Gen Intern Med. 2013 Sep;28(9):1202-7. doi: 10.1007/s11606-013-2393-5.
Epub  2013 Mar 29.

Physician decision making for colorectal cancer screening in the elderly.

Lewis CL(1), Esserman D, DeLeon C, Pignone MP, Pathman DE, Golin C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of General Medicine and Clinical 
Epidemiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, USA. 
Carmen_Lewis@med.unc.edu

BACKGROUND: Although individualized decision making is recommended to 
appropriately screen for colorectal cancer (CRC) in older adults, it is unclear 
whether physicians solicit input from older patients before making a 
recommendation for or against CRC screening.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to examine whether physicians elect to 
engage older patients in individualized decision making for CRC screening.
DESIGN AND PARTICIPANTS: We surveyed a random sample of 650 US primary care 
physicians by mail. Physicians responded to questions about three clinical 
vignettes involving 80-year-old female patients in good, fair, and poor health. 
We examined whether physicians reported that they would initiate a discussion 
with the patients about CRC screening and whether they would make a 
recommendation about screening or seek patient input first.
RESULTS: A total of 276 eligible physicians responded (52 % corrected response 
rate). Whether physicians indicated they would initiate a discussion about CRC 
screening varied by vignette: 91 % of physicians indicated they would do so for 
the patient in good health and 66 % and 44 % for the patients in fair and poor 
health, respectively (p<0.0001). The proportion of physicians that would seek 
patient input for their screening recommendation also varied by vignette (45 % 
for good, 49 % for fair, and 26 % for poor).
CONCLUSION: We found that physicians often individualize their CRC screening 
recommendations for older women by electing to engage patients in discussions 
and seeking their input before making a CRC recommendation. Physicians were more 
likely to elect to engage the patients represented by the good and fair health 
vignette, where the potential benefits likely outweigh the potential harms, than 
the patient in poor health, where the potential harms likely outweigh the 
potential benefits.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-013-2393-5
PMCID: PMC3744317
PMID: 23539281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Qual Life Res. 2013 Dec;22(10):2941-50. doi: 10.1007/s11136-013-0396-7. Epub
 2013 Mar 29.

Mapping CushingQOL scores to EQ-5D utility values using data from the European 
Registry on Cushing's syndrome (ERCUSYN).

Badia X(1), Roset M, Valassi E, Franz H, Forsythe A, Webb SM.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, IMS Health, C/ Dr. Ferran 25-27, 2º, 
08034, Barcelona, Spain.

PURPOSE: To construct a model to predict preference-adjusted EuroQol 5D (EQ-5D) 
health utilities for CS using the disease-specific health-related quality of 
life measure (CushingQOL).
METHODS: Data were obtained from the European Registry on CS (ERCUSYN). ERCUSYN 
is a web-based, multicenter, observational study that enrolled 508 CS patients 
from 36 centers in 23 European countries. Patients included in the study 
completed both the EQ-5D and the disease-specific CushingQOL questionnaire. 
Socio-demographic and clinical data were also collected. The UK tariff values 
were used to calculate EQ-5D utility scores. Various predictive models were 
tested, and the final model was selected based on four criteria: explanatory 
power (adjusted R-squared), consistency of estimated coefficients (sign and 
parameter estimation), normality of prediction errors (mean error, mean absolute 
error, root mean squared error), and parsimony.
RESULTS: For the mapping analysis, data were available from a total of 129 
patients. Mean (SD) age was 43.1 (13) years, and the sample was predominantly 
female (84.5 %). Patients had a mean (SD) CushingQOL score of 39.7 (17.1) and a 
mean (SD) 'tariff' value on the EQ-5D of 0.55 (0.3). The model which best met 
the criteria for selection included the intercept and 3 CushingQOL's questions 
and had an R(2) of 0.506 and a root mean square error of 0.216.
CONCLUSIONS: It was possible to find a mapping function which successfully 
predicted the EQ-5D UK utilities from disease-specific CushingQOL scores. The 
function may be useful in calculating EQ-5D scores when EQ-5D data have not been 
gathered directly in a study.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-013-0396-7
PMCID: PMC3853865
PMID: 23539468 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2014 Aug;21(8):972-9. doi: 10.1177/2047487313483607.
Epub  2013 Mar 28.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of coronary artery disease screening in HIV-infected 
men.

Nolte JE(1), Neumann T(2), Manne JM(3), Lo J(4), Neumann A(5), Mostardt S(5), 
Abbara S(6), Hoffmann U(6), Brady TJ(6), Wasem J(5), Grinspoon SK(4), Gazelle 
GS(7), Goehler A(8).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital & Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA Alfried Krupp von Bohlen 
und Halbach Foundation-Institute for Health Systems Management, University of 
