after HIV infection, the specific oxidative and nitrosative species that are 
involved in the post-translational modification of the brain proteome, and the 
methods that are currently used for the detection of such modified proteins. 
This review also provides an overview of related research pertaining to 
oxidative stress-related HAND using cerebrospinal fluid and human brain tissue.

DOI: 10.1007/s11481-013-9444-x
PMCID: PMC3714334
PMID: 23475542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


477. Drugs Aging. 2013 May;30(5):285-307. doi: 10.1007/s40266-013-0064-1.

Studies to reduce unnecessary medication use in frail older adults: a systematic 
review.

Tjia J(1), Velten SJ, Parsons C, Valluri S, Briesacher BA.

Author information:
(1)University of Massachusetts Medical School Biotech Four, 377 Plantation 
Street, Suite 315, Worcester, MA 01605, USA. jennifer.tjia@umassmed.edu

BACKGROUND: Overuse of unnecessary medications in frail older adults with 
limited life expectancy remains an understudied challenge.
OBJECTIVE: To identify intervention studies that reduced use of unnecessary 
medications in frail older adults. A secondary goal was to identify and review 
studies focusing on patients approaching end of life. We examined criteria for 
identifying unnecessary medications, intervention processes for medication 
reduction, and intervention effectiveness.
METHODS: A systematic review of English articles using MEDLINE, EMBASE, and 
International Pharmaceutical Abstracts from January 1966 to September 2012. 
Additional studies were identified by searching bibliographies. Search terms 
included prescription drugs, drug utilization, hospice or palliative care, and 
appropriate or inappropriate. A manual review of 971 identified abstracts for 
the inclusion criteria (study included an intervention to reduce chronic 
medication use; at least 5 participants; population included patients aged at 
least 65 years, hospice enrollment, or indication of frailty or risk of 
functional decline-including assisted living or nursing home residence, 
inpatient hospitalization) yielded 60 articles for full review by 3 
investigators. After exclusion of review articles, interventions targeting acute 
medications, or studies exclusively in the intensive care unit, 36 articles were 
retained (including 13 identified by bibliography review). Articles were 
extracted for study design, study setting, intervention description, criteria 
for identifying unnecessary medication use, and intervention outcomes.
RESULTS: The studies included 15 randomized controlled trials, 4 non-randomized 
trials, 6 pre-post studies, and 11 case series. Control groups were used in over 
half of the studies (n = 20). Study populations varied and included residents of 
nursing homes and assisted living facilities (n = 16), hospitalized patients 
(n = 14), hospice/palliative care patients (n = 3), home care patients (n = 2), 
and frail or disabled community-dwelling patients (n = 1). The majority of 
studies (n = 21) used implicit criteria to identify unnecessary medications 
(including drugs without indication, unnecessary duplication, and lack of 
effectiveness); only one study incorporated patient preference into prescribing 
criteria. Most (25) interventions were led by or involved pharmacists, 4 used 
academic detailing, 2 used audit and feedback reports targeting prescribers, and 
5 involved physician-led medication reviews. Overall intervention effect sizes 
could not be determined due to heterogeneity of study designs, samples, and 
measures.
CONCLUSIONS: Very little rigorous research has been conducted on reducing 
unnecessary medications in frail older adults or patients approaching end of 
life.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-013-0064-1
PMID: 23475597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Med Decis Making. 2013 Aug;33(6):839-52. doi: 10.1177/0272989X13475716. Epub
 2013 Mar 8.

Common scale valuations across different preference-based measures: estimation 
using rank data.

Alava MH(1), Brazier J(1), Rowen D(1), Tsuchiya A(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (MHA, JB, DR, AT) University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK
(2)Department of Economics (AT) University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK

BACKGROUND: Different preference-based measures (PBMs) used to estimate 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) provide different utility values for the 
same patient. Differences are expected since values have been obtained using 
different samples, valuation techniques, and descriptive systems. Previous 
studies have estimated the relationship between pairs of PBMs using patient 
self-reported data. However, there is a need for an approach capable of 
generating values directly on a common scale for a range of PBMs using the same 
sample of general population respondents and valuation technique but keeping the 
advantages of the different descriptive systems.
METHODS: . General public survey data (n = 501) in which respondents ranked 
health states described using subsets of 6 PBMs were analyzed. We develop a new 
model based on the mixed logit to overcome 2 key limitations of the standard 
rank-ordered logit model-namely, the unrealistic choice pattern (independence of 
irrelevant alternatives) and the independence of repeated observations.
RESULTS: . There are substantial differences in the estimated parameters between 
the 2 models (mean difference 0.07), leading to different orderings across the 
measures. Estimated values for the best states described by different PBMs are 
substantially and significantly different using the standard model, unlike our 
approach, which yields more consistent results. Limitations. Data come from an 
exploratory study that is relatively small both in sample size and coverage of 
health states.
CONCLUSIONS: . This study develops a new, flexible econometric model 
specifically designed to reflect appropriately the features of rank data. 
Results support the view that the standard model is not appropriate in this 
setting and will yield very different and apparently inconsistent results. PBMs 
can be compared using a common scale by implementation of this new approach.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X13475716
PMID: 23475939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Rev Med Suisse. 2013 Feb 13;9(373):374-7.

[Benefits of routine psychological counselling for patients living with HIV].

[Article in French]

Toma S(1), Sartori M, Moayedoddin B, Weber K, Toutous Trellu L, Canuto A, Calmy 
A.

Author information:
(1)Service de psychiatrie de liaison et d'intervention de crise, Département de 
santé mentale et de psychiatrie, HUG, Genève 14. simona.toma@hcuge.ch

Despite improvement of life expectancy of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) 
infected people since the implementation of antiretroviral treatment, 
psychological suffering prevails and needs to be considered as part of the 
treatment to guarantee its efficiency. Mental disorders and social 
stigmatization substantially affect patients' quality of life and their 
adherence to treatment. The article details the benefits of a routine screening 
for mental disorders within this population, who is often reluctant to consult 
psychiatric services. The different treatments provided by the Geneva University 
Hospital (HUG) are introduced. A clinical case report illustrates the relevance 
of a multidisciplinary care program and the role of the liaison psychiatry in 
this field.

PMID: 23477071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. IARC Sci Publ. 2012;(158):119-29.

Economics of mycotoxins: evaluating costs to society and cost-effectiveness of 
interventions.

[No authors listed]

The economic impacts of mycotoxins to human society can be thought of in two 
ways: (i) the direct market costs associated with lost trade or reduced revenues 
due to contaminated food or feed, and (ii) the human health losses from adverse 
effects associated with mycotoxin consumption. Losses related to markets occur 
within systems in which mycotoxins are being monitored in the food and feed 
supply. Food that has mycotoxin levels above a particular maximum allowable 
level is either rejected outright for sale or sold at a lower price for a 
different use. Such transactions can take place at local levels or at the level 
of trade among countries. Sometimes this can result in heavy economic losses for 
food producers, but the benefit of such monitoring systems is a lower risk of 
mycotoxins in the food supply. Losses related to health occur when mycotoxins 
are present in food at levels that can cause illness. In developed countries, 
such losses are often measured in terms of cost of illness; around the world, 
such losses are more frequently measured in terms of disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs). It is also useful to assess the economics of interventions to 
reduce mycotoxins and their attendant health effects; the relative effectiveness 
of public health interventions can be assessed by estimating quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) associated with each intervention. Cost-effectiveness 
assessment can be conducted to compare the cost of implementing the intervention 
with the resulting benefits, in terms of either improved markets or improved 
human health. Aside from cost-effectiveness, however, it is also important to 
assess the technical feasibility of interventions, particularly in low-income 
countries, where funds and infrastructures are limited.

PMID: 23477200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. Clin Ther. 2013 Apr;35(4):364-70. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2013.02.011. Epub
 2013 Mar 9.

Comparative-effectiveness research to aid population decision making by relating 
clinical outcomes and quality-adjusted life years.

Campbell JD(1), Zerzan J, Garrison LP Jr, Libby AM.

Author information:
(1)University of Colorado, Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Aurora, CO, USA. Jon.Campbell@ucdenver.edu

BACKGROUND: Comparative-effectiveness research (CER) at the population level is 
missing standardized approaches to quantify and weigh interventions in terms of 
their clinical risks, benefits, and uncertainty.
OBJECTIVES: We proposed an adapted CER framework for population decision making, 
provided example displays of the outputs, and discussed the implications for 
population decision makers.
METHODS: Building on decision-analytical modeling but excluding cost, we 
proposed a 2-step approach to CER that explicitly compared interventions in 
terms of clinical risks and benefits and linked this evidence to the 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The first step was a traditional 
intervention-specific evidence synthesis of risks and benefits. The second step 
was a decision-analytical model to simulate intervention-specific progression of 
disease over an appropriate time. The output was the ability to compare and 
quantitatively link clinical outcomes with QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: The outputs from these CER models include clinical risks, benefits, 
and QALYs over flexible and relevant time horizons. This approach yields an 
explicit, structured, and consistent quantitative framework to weigh all 
relevant clinical measures. Population decision makers can use this modeling 
framework and QALYs to aid in their judgment of the individual and collective 
risks and benefits of the alternatives over time. Future research should study 
effective communication of these domains for stakeholders.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2013.02.011
PMID: 23477685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Eur J Dermatol. 2013 Jan-Feb;23(1):14-32. doi: 10.1684/ejd.2013.1923.

Therapeutic strategies for actinic keratoses--a systematic review.

Nashan D(1), Meiss F, Müller M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Klinikum Dortmund gGmbH, Beurhausstr. 40, 44137 
Dortmund, Germany. Dorothee.Nashan@klinikumdo.de

An exponentially increasing incidence, malignant potential and economical 
interest have made actinic keratoses (AKs) a strategic healthcare issue. The 
debate whether AKs are precursor lesions or in situ cancers with a continuum 
towards invasive squamous cell carcinoma has faded, given the millions of 
affected individuals. Cumulative exposure to ultraviolet light and increasing 
life expectancy, together with an over-aged, therefore increasingly affected 
population, create responsibilities for clinicians. Guidelines in the UK (2007) 
and Europe (2011), meta-analyses and overviews of selected treatment options, as 
well as some selected combined treatment strategies, are available. No 
comprehensive overview providing explicit details of randomized studies, 
including the majority of approved and popular treatment options, and 
designating evidence-based criteria has been published so far, a goal desirable 
to avoid a biased perspective on therapeutic approaches. This review defines the 
state of art for destructive and topical treatment options based on randomized 
trials which meet criteria like >30 patients in an intention-to-treat analysis, 
an easily reproducible study design with responses rated towards treatment as 
the major objective, measured as complete remission. Epidemiological data 
include grades and location of treated AKs, operational procedures, cryotherapy, 
laser therapy, 3% diclofenac in 2.5% hyaluronic acid, 2.5%, 3.75% and 5% 
imiquimod, 0.5% and 5% 5-fluorouracil, photodynamic therapy including 
ALA-patches. Sequential and combined approaches in daily practice and in 
developing study design might profit from the details of studies listed here. 
Divergent and treatment-specific proceedings, response rates after definite time 
intervals aiding physicians' further guidance and their management of patients 
are elucidated. Uncommon and new therapeutic options are discussed.

DOI: 10.1684/ejd.2013.1923
PMID: 23477760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Cancer Radiother. 2013 Apr;17(2):111-7. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2013.01.009.
Epub  2013 Mar 9.

[Permanent implant prostate cancer brachytherapy: 2013 state-of-the art].

[Article in French]

Cosset JM(1), Hannoun-Lévi JM, Peiffert D, Delannes M, Pommier P, Pierrat N, 
Nickers P, Thomas L, Chauveinc L.

Author information:
(1)Département d'oncologie/radiothérapie, institut Curie, 26, rue d'Ulm, 75005 
Paris, France. jean-marc.cosset@curie.net

With an experience of more than 25 years for the pioneers (and more than 14 
years in France), permanent implant brachytherapy using iodine 125 seeds 
(essentially) is now recognized as a valuable alternative therapy for localized 
low-risk prostate cancer patients. The possible extension of the indications of 
exclusive brachytherapy towards selected patients in the intermediate-risk group 
has now been confirmed by several studies. Moreover, for the other patients in 
the intermediate-risk group and for the patients in the high-risk group, 
brachytherapy, as an addition to external radiotherapy, could represent one of 
the best ways to escalate the dose. Different permanent implant brachytherapy 
techniques have been proposed; preplanning or real-time procedure, loose or 
stranded seeds (or both), manual or automatic injection of the seeds. The main 
point here is the ability to perfectly master the procedure and to comply with 
the dosimetric constraints, which have been recently redefined by the 
international societies, such as the GEC-ESTRO group. Mid- and long-term 
results, which are now available in the literature, indicate relapse-free 
survival rates of about 90% at 5-10 years, the best results being obtained with 
satisfactory dosimetric data. Comparative data have shown that the incontinence 
and impotence rates after brachytherapy seemed to be significantly inferior to 
what is currently observed after surgery. However, a risk of about 3 to 5% of 
urinary retention is usually reported after brachytherapy, as well as an 
irritative urinary syndrome, which may significantly alter the quality of life 
of the patients, and last several months. In spite of those drawbacks, with 
excellent long-term results, low rates of incontinence and impotence, and 
emerging new indications (focal brachytherapy, salvage brachytherapy after 
localized failure of an external irradiation), permanent implant prostate 
brachytherapy can be expected to be proposed to an increasing number of patients 
in the next future.

Copyright © 2013 Société française de radiothérapie oncologique (SFRO). 
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2013.01.009
PMID: 23478488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Dis Colon Rectum. 2013 Apr;56(4):397-9. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e318280574a.

Patients, priorities, and decision making in T1 rectal cancer.

Regenbogen SE.

DOI: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e318280574a
PMID: 23478605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Dis Colon Rectum. 2013 Apr;56(4):400-7. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e3182805eb8.

The management of patients with T1 adenocarcinoma of the low rectum: a decision 
analysis.

Johnston CF(1), Tomlinson G, Temple LK, Baxter NN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Decision Making and Health Care, University Health 
Network and Faculty of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada.

Comment in
    Dis Colon Rectum. 2013 Sep;56(9):e381.
    Dis Colon Rectum. 2013 Oct;56(10):e396-7.

BACKGROUND: Decision making for patients with T1 adenocarcinoma of the low 
rectum, when treatment options are limited to a transanal local excision or 
abdominoperineal resection, is challenging.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to develop a contemporary decision 
analysis to assist patients and clinicians in balancing the goals of maximizing 
life expectancy and quality of life in this situation.
DESIGN: We constructed a Markov-type microsimulation in open-source software. 
Recurrence rates and quality-of-life parameters were elicited by systematic 
literature reviews. Sensitivity analyses were performed on key model parameters.
PATIENTS AND SETTING: Our base case for analysis was a 65-year-old man with 
low-lying T1N0 rectal cancer. We determined the sensitivity of our model for 
sex, age up to 80, and T stage.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome measured was quality-adjusted 
life-years.
RESULTS: In the base case, selecting transanal local excision over 
abdominoperineal resection resulted in a loss of 0.53 years of life expectancy 
but a gain of 0.97 quality-adjusted life-years. One-way sensitivity analysis 
demonstrated a health state utility value threshold for permanent colostomy of 
0.93. This value ranged from 0.88 to 1.0 based on tumor recurrence risk. There 
were no other model sensitivities.
LIMITATIONS: Some model parameter estimates were based on weak data.
CONCLUSIONS: In our model, transanal local excision was found to be the 
preferable approach for most patients. An abdominoperineal resection has a 3.5% 
longer life expectancy, but this advantage is lost when the quality-of-life 
reduction reported by stoma patients is weighed in. The minority group in whom 
abdominoperineal resection is preferred are those who are unwilling to sacrifice 
7% of their life expectancy to avoid a permanent stoma. This is estimated to be 
approximately 25% of all patients. The threshold increases to 12% of life 
expectancy in high-risk tumors. No other factors are found to be relevant to the 
decision.

DOI: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e3182805eb8
PMID: 23478606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Neurol Sci. 2013 Dec;34(12):2107-16. doi: 10.1007/s10072-013-1345-5. Epub
2013  Mar 12.

Operability of glioblastomas: "sins of action" versus "sins of non-action".

Ferroli P(1), Schiariti M, Finocchiaro G, Salmaggi A, Castiglione M, Acerbi F, 
Tringali G, Farinotti M, Broggi M, Roberto C, Maccagnano E, Broggi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Fondazione Istituto Neurologico Carlo Besta, Via 
Celoria 11, 20133, Milan, Italy, paolo.ferroli@istituto-besta.it.

Despite prognosis of glioblastomas is still poor, mounting evidence suggests 
that more extensive surgical resections are associated with longer life 
expectancy. However, the surgical indications, at present, are far from uniform 
and the concept of operability is extremely surgeon-dependant. The results of 
glioblastoma resection in 104 patients operated on between March 2005 and April 
2011 were reviewed with the aim to shed some light on the limits between 'sins 
of action' (operating upon complex tumors causing a permanent severe deficit) 
and 'sins of non-action' (considering inoperable tumors that can be resected 
with good results). Fifty-five patients (54.4 %) (Group 1) presented with a 
'disputable' surgical indication because of one or more of the following 
clinico-radiological aspects: involvement of motor and language areas (39.4 %), 
deep location (7.7 %), corpus callosum infiltration (13.4 %), or major vessels 
encasement (8.6 %). Forty-six (42.5 %) patients (Group 2) presented with an 
'indisputable' surgical indication (readily accessible tumors in non-eloquent 
areas). Overall mortality was 2.9 %. The mean overall survival was 19.8 months 
and not significantly different in the two Groups (20.4 Group 2 and 19.5 months 
for Group 1; p = 0.7). Patients with GTR and <72 years had a longer survival (p 
= 0.004 and 0.03, respectively). Seventy patients (69.3 %) showed an uneventful 
post-operative course, without statistical significance difference between Group 
1 and 2. The gross total removal of glioblastoma with many complexities (Group 
1) was found to be feasible with acceptable mortality, morbidity and long-term 
survival rates.

DOI: 10.1007/s10072-013-1345-5
PMID: 23479032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. Chirurg. 2013 Apr;84(4):291-5. doi: 10.1007/s00104-012-2455-y.

[Pancreatic cancer in the elderly: guidelines and individualized therapy].

[Article in German]

Nieß H(1), Kleespies A, Andrassy J, Pratschke S, Angele MK, Guba M, Jauch KW, 
Bruns CJ.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Allgemeine, Viszeral-, Transplantations-, Gefäß- und 
Thoraxchirurgie, LMU München,Campus Großhadern, Marchioninistr. 15, 81377, 
München, Deutschland.

Erratum in
    Chirurg. 2013 Jun;84(6):522. Pratschke, P [corrected to Pratschke, S].

The considerable increase of the aged population in western civilisation within 
the next years will result in a rising incidence of pancreatic cancer. Until the 
year 2020 an increment of 20  % of patients beyond 65 years old can be 
anticipated. Therefore, the focus will be on management of old and geriatric 
surgical patients leading to strategical re-evaluation of surgical indications 
under critical consideration of feasibility and purpose. Even under modern 
interdisciplinary therapy concepts the prognosis of ductal adenocarcinoma of the 
pancreas remains poor with an overall 5-year survival rate of less than 5  %. 
The surgical resection is still considered as the only potential curative 
treatment option with extended life expectancy; however, it is technically 
demanding and furthermore associated with significant morbidity. In particular, 
the quality of surgery of the now interdisciplinary therapy of pancreatic cancer 
is markedly improved when performed at a high-volume centres. Until now only a 
few retrospective data analyses evaluating the perioperative and long-term 
outcome after pancreatic tumor resections in geriatric patients exist. The 
available results, however, support radical surgical procedures even beyond the 
age of 75 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s00104-012-2455-y
PMID: 23479275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Lancet. 2013 Mar 2;381(9868):711-2. doi: 10.1016/s0140-6736(13)60565-6.

Health and medicine under Putin.

Clark F.

Erratum in
    Lancet. 2013 Apr 27;381(9876):1460.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Jun 22;381(9884):2163-4.

DOI: 10.1016/s0140-6736(13)60565-6
PMID: 23479806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Glob Health Action. 2013 Feb 25;6:20443. doi: 10.3402/gha.v6i0.20443.

Public health in Vietnam: scientific evidence for policy changes and 
interventions.

Hinh ND, Minh HV.

DOI: 10.3402/gha.v6i0.20443
PMCID: PMC3582694
PMID: 23480987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Ann Afr Med. 2013 Jan-Mar;12(1):1-10. doi: 10.4103/1596-3519.108242.

NeuroAIDS in sub-Saharan Africa: a clinical review.

Alkali NH(1), Bwala SA, Nyandaiti YW, Danesi MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, National Hospital, PMB 425, Garki, Abuja, Nigeria.

NeuroAIDS affects half of the 22 million people currently living with HIV/AIDS 
in sub-Saharan Africa, where cryptococcal meningitis alone is responsible for 
504,000 deaths annually. A good understanding of NeuroAIDS may help improve 
disease-free survival in patients at risk and optimize resource utilization by 
caregivers. In this review, we aimed to provide a summary of major NeuroAIDS 
syndromes of relevance in Africa. We searched Medline for English language 
literature to identify relevant publications, using the search terms "NeuroAIDS" 
and "HIV AND nervous system." The most common NeuroAIDS syndrome is 
HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders (HAND), which affects over 1.5 million 
Africans yearly. While incidence of HAND has decreased with the use of highly 
active antiretroviral therapy, prevalence has increased due to longer life 
expectancy. Other NeuroAIDS syndromes include tuberculous meningitis and 
intracerebral tuberculoma, cryptococcal meningitis, toxoplasma encephalitis, 
progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy, primary central nervous system 
lymphoma, stroke, and distal sensory polyneuropathy. NeuroAIDS care and research 
in Africa are hindered by resource limitations. Inadequate neuroimaging and 
laboratory facilities result in diagnostic delays and confusion, while limited 
access to drugs leads to inappropriate treatment. However, the situation may be 
improving. Better funding of HIV care by African governments and donor agencies 
have resulted in decreasing HIV prevalence and prolonged survival. Yet, central 
nervous system opportunistic infections remain important causes of death and 
disability among African patients with HIV/AIDS. There is the need for 
additional funding to improve access to antibiotics and to facilitate further 
research into NeuroAIDS and its treatment.

DOI: 10.4103/1596-3519.108242
PMID: 23480988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. J Orthop Trauma. 2013 Nov;27(11):642-8. doi: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e31828f9a88.

Using decision analysis to assess comparative clinical efficacy of surgical 
treatment of unstable ankle fractures.

Michelson JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, University of Vermont, 
Stafford, Burlington, VT.

Comment in
    J Orthop Trauma. 2013 Nov;27(11):648-9.
    J Orthop Trauma. 2013 Nov;27(11):649-50.

BACKGROUND/OBJECTIVES: The development of a robust treatment algorithm for ankle 
fractures based on well-established stability criteria has been shown to be 
prognostic with respect to treatment and outcomes. In parallel with the 
development of improved understanding of the biomechanical rationale of ankle 
fracture treatment has been an increased emphasis on assessing the effectiveness 
of medical and surgical interventions. The purpose of this study was to 
investigate the use of using decision analysis in the assessment of the cost 
effectiveness of operative treatment of ankle fractures based on the existing 
clinical data in the literature.
METHODS: Using the data obtained from a previous structured review of the ankle 
fracture literature, decision analysis trees were constructed using standard 
software. The decision nodes for the trees were based on ankle fracture 
stability criteria previously published. The outcomes were assessed by 
calculated Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) assigned to achieving normal 
ankle function, developing posttraumatic arthritis, or sustaining a 
postoperative infection. Sensitivity analysis was undertaken by varying the 
patient's age, incidence of arthritis, and incidence or infection.
RESULTS: Decision analysis trees captured the essential aspects of clinical 
decision making in ankle fracture treatment in a clinically useful manner. In 
general, stable fractures yielded better outcomes with nonoperative treatment, 
whereas unstable fractures had better outcomes with surgery. These were 
consistent results over a wide range of postoperative infection rates. Varying 
the age of the patient did not qualitatively change the results. Between the 
ages of 30 and 80 years, surgery yielded higher expected QALYs than nonoperative 
care for unstable fractures, and generated lower QALYs than nonoperative care 
for stable fractures. Using local cost estimates for operative and nonoperative 
treatment, the incremental cost of surgery for unstable fractures was less than 
$40,000 per QALY (the usual cutoff for the determination of cost effectiveness) 
for patients aged up to 90 years.
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSIONS: Decision analysis is a useful methodology in developing 
treatment guidelines. Numerous previous studies have indicated superior clinical 
outcomes when unstable ankle fractures underwent operative reduction and 
stabilization. What has been lacking was an examination of the cost 
effectiveness of such an approach, particularly in older patients who have fewer 
expected years of life. In light of the evidence for satisfactory outcomes for 
surgery of severe ankle fractures in older people, the justification for 
operative intervention is an obvious question that can be asked in the current 
increasingly cost-conscious environment. Using a decision-tree decision analysis 
structured around the stability-based ankle fracture classification system, in 
conjunction with a relatively simple cost effectiveness analysis, this study was 
able to demonstrate that surgical treatment of unstable ankle fractures in 
elderly patients is in fact cost effective.
SIGNIFICANCE: The clinical implication of the present analysis is that these 
existing treatment protocols for ankle fracture treatment are also cost 
effective when quality of life outcome measures are taken into account.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Economic Level II. See Instructions for Authors for a 
complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1097/BOT.0b013e31828f9a88
PMID: 23481924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. J Card Fail. 2013 Mar;19(3):193-201. doi: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2013.01.011.

Palliative care consultations for heart failure patients: how many, when, and 
why?

Bakitas M(1), Macmartin M, Trzepkowski K, Robert A, Jackson L, Brown JR, 
Dionne-Odom JN, Kono A.

Author information:
(1)Section of Palliative Medicine, Department of Medicine, Geisel School of 
Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, USA. marie.bakitas@hitchcock.org

OBJECTIVE: In preparation for development of a palliative care intervention for 
patients with heart failure (HF) and their caregivers, we aimed to characterize 
the HF population receiving palliative care consultations (PCCs).
METHODS AND RESULTS: Reviewing charts from January 2006 to April 2011, we 
analyzed HF patient data including demographic and clinical characteristics, 
Seattle Heart Failure scores, and PCCs. Using Atlas qualitative software, we 
conducted a content analysis of PCC notes to characterize palliative care 
assessment and treatment recommendations. There were 132 HF patients with PCCs, 
of which 37% were New York Heart Association functional class III and 50% 
functional class IV. Retrospectively computed Seattle Heart Failure scores 
predicted 1-year mortality of 29% [interquartile range (IQR) 19-45] and median 
life expectancy of 2.8 years [IQR 1.6-4.2] years. Of the 132 HF patients, 115 
(87%) had died by the time of the audit. In that cohort the actual median time 
from PCC to death was 21 [IQR 3-125] days. Reasons documented for PCCs included 
goals of care (80%), decision making (24%), hospice referral/discussion (24%), 
and symptom management (8%).
CONCLUSIONS: Despite recommendations, PCCs are not being initiated until the 
last month of life. Earlier referral for PCC may allow for integration of a 
broader array of palliative care services.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cardfail.2013.01.011
PMCID: PMC4564059
PMID: 23482081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Phlebology. 2013 Mar;28 Suppl 1:135-40. doi: 10.1177/0268355512475119.

Cost-effectiveness analysis: role and implications.

Marsden G(1), Wonderling D.

Author information:
(1)National Clinical Guideline Centre, Royal College of Physicians, 11 St 
Andrews Place, Regent's Park, London NW1 4LE, UK. grace.marsden@rcplondon.ac.uk

Erratum in
    Phlebology. 2013 Apr;28(3):173.

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) is often misperceived to be a 
cost-cutting exercise. The intention of CEA is not to identify and implement 
cheap technologies, but rather those which offer maximum health gain, subject to 
available funds. Such analysis is crucial for decision making in health care, as 
tight budget constraints mean spending in one area of healthcare displaces 
spending elsewhere. Therefore in order to achieve the greatest health gain for 
the overall population, treatments must be selected which provide the greatest 
health gain within the available funds.
SUMMARY: The relevance of CEA in health care systems is explained, using 
varicose vein treatment in the UK NHS as an example. Treatment for varicose 
veins is often not commissioned to at a local level, most likely because it is 
misperceived to be a cosmetic problem. However, this view does not take into 
account the impact of quality of life. CEA balances costs against a quantitative 
measure of health related quality of life, and could therefore be used to 
determine whether it is cost-effective to provide varicose vein treatment. The 
current literature on the cost-effectiveness of varicose vein treatment is 
reviewed, and an overview of cost-effectiveness principles is provided. Concepts 
such as economic modelling, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), net 
monetary benefit (NMB) and sensitivity analysis are explained, using examples 
relevant to varicose veins where appropriate.
CONCLUSION: This article explains how, far from cutting costs and sacrificing 
patient health, CEA provides a useful tool to maximise the health of the 
population in the face of ever tightening budget constraints. CEA could be used 
to compare the cost-effectiveness of the various treatment options for varicose 
veins, and efficiencies realised.

DOI: 10.1177/0268355512475119
PMID: 23482549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Phlebology. 2013 Mar;28 Suppl 1:153-7. doi: 10.1177/0268355513477003.

Which treatments are cost-effective in the management of varicose veins?

Gohel M(1).

Author information:
(1)Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, UK. M.gohel@imperial.ac.uk

In the current economic climate, the cost-effectiveness of health-care 
interventions is under great scrutiny. In this article, the evidence for 
cost-effectiveness of treatments for varicose veins is summarized. The majority 
of studies evaluating treatments for varicose veins have not assessed health 
economic outcomes, but have focused on clinical and anatomical measures. The 
cost-effectiveness of treating varicose veins (compared with conservative 
management) was demonstrated in the REACTIV trial. Other in-trial economic 
analyses suggested that endovenous interventions are likely to be cost-effective 
and a decision tree analysis demonstrated that the greatest cost-effectiveness 
may be present for procedures performed under local or tumescent anaesthesia in 
the office or outpatient setting. However, the treatment modality that offers 
the greatest cost-effectiveness remains unclear. In conclusion, endovenous 
treatment performed in the outpatient setting under local anaesthesia is likely 
to be the most cost-effective treatment strategy for varicose veins. Better 
quality health economic analyses are needed to refine this conclusion.

DOI: 10.1177/0268355513477003
PMID: 23482552 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2013 Oct;84(10):1156-60. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2012-304636. Epub 2013 Mar 12.

Prevalence of adult Huntington's disease in the UK based on diagnoses recorded 
in general practice records.

Evans SJ(1), Douglas I, Rawlins MD, Wexler NS, Tabrizi SJ, Smeeth L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 
University of London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The prevalence of Huntington's disease (HD) in the UK is 
uncertain. Recently, it has been suggested that the prevalence may be 
substantially greater than previously reported. This study was undertaken to 
estimate the overall UK prevalence in adults diagnosed with HD, using data from 
primary care.
METHODS: The electronic medical records of patients aged 21 years or more, with 
recorded diagnoses of HD, were retrieved from the UK's General Practice Research 
Database. Prevalence was estimated from the number of persons with recorded 
diagnoses of HD, on 1 July each year, between 1990 and 2010. This number was 
divided by the total number of persons registered with participating general 
practices on that same date. These data were also used to estimate both age 
specific prevalence and prevalence in various regions of the UK.
RESULTS: A total of 1136 patients diagnosed with HD, aged 21 years or more, were 
identified from the database. The estimated prevalence (expressed per 100 000 
population) rose from 5.4 (95% CI 3.8 to 7.5) in 1990 to 12.3 (95% CI 11.2 to 
13.5) in 2010. Although an increased prevalence was observed within every age 
group, the most dramatic was in older patients. Age specific prevalence was 
highest in the 51-60 year age range (15.8 95% CI 9.0 to 22.3). The prevalence of 
adult HD was lowest in the London region (5.4 (95% CI 3.0 to 8.9)) and highest 
in the North East of England (18.3 (95% CI 8.6 to 34.6)) and Scotland (16.1 (95% 
CI 10.8 to 22.9)).
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of diagnosed HD is clearly substantially higher in 
the UK than suggested from previous studies. By extrapolation to the UK as a 
whole, it is estimated that there are more than 5700 people, aged 21 years or 
more, with HD. There has also been a surprising doubling of the HD population 
between 1990 and 2010. Many factors may have caused this increase, including 
more accurate diagnoses, better and more available therapies and an improved 
life expectancy, even with HD. There also appears to be a greater willingness to 
register a diagnosis of HD in patients' electronic medical records. Such a high 
prevalence of HD requires more ingenuity and responsiveness in its care. How to 
appropriately care for, and respond to, so many individuals and families coping 
with the exigencies of HD demands our greatest resolve and imagination.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2012-304636
PMCID: PMC3786631
PMID: 23482661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. J Geriatr Oncol. 2013 Jan;4(1):9-18. doi: 10.1016/j.jgo.2012.08.007.

The relation between age and androgen deprivation therapy use among men in the 
Medicare population receiving radiation therapy for prostate cancer.

Quon JL, Yu JB, Soulos PR, Gross CP.

OBJECTIVES: Neoadjuvant and concurrent androgen deprivation therapy (ncADT) is 
recommended for men with high-risk prostate cancer, but not low-risk cancer or 
short life expectancy. It is unclear whether the use of ncADT among older men in 
the community setting is aligned with the potential for clinical benefit.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results–Medicare database to assess patterns of ncADT use among men diagnosed 
with prostate cancer during 2004–2007 who received radiation therapy. Men were 
stratified according to tumor risk groups and life expectancy. We used logistic 
regression to identify factors associated with ncADT use within each risk group.
RESULTS: There were 10,686 men in the sample (mean age 74.2 years; 83.4% white). 
The use of ncADT was 80.7%, 54.1%, and 27.8% in the high-, intermediate-, and 
low-risk groups, respectively. Men with a life expectancy<5 years had higher 
rates of ncADT use than men with a life expectancy≥10 years in all risk groups. 
Within each risk group, advancing age was associated with higher likelihood of 
receiving ncADT (odds ratio for men aged 80–84 compared to 67–69=1.93 (95% CI 
1.37–2.70); 1.51 (95% CI 1.22–1.87); and 1.71 (95% CI 1.14–2.57) for high-, 
intermediate-, and low-risk groups, respectively).
CONCLUSION: ncADT use is not consistent with guideline recommendations and is 
more frequent among men who are older, have shorter life expectancy, and are 
less likely to benefit from therapy.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2012.08.007
PMCID: PMC3591488
PMID: 23482846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the authors have any conflicts of 
interest


497. Physiol Entomol. 2013 Mar 1;38(1):81-88. doi: 10.1111/phen.12006. Epub 2013
Feb  27.

Effects of diet and host access on fecundity and lifespan in two fruit fly 
species with different life history patterns.

Harwood JF(1), Chen K, Müller HG, Wang JL, Vargas RI, Carey JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Davis, CA, U.S.A.

The reproductive ability of female tephritids can be limited and prevented by 
denying access to host plants and restricting the dietary precursors of 
vitellogenesis. The mechanisms underlying the delayed egg production in each 
case are initiated by different physiological processes that are anticipated to 
have dissimilar effects on lifespan and reproductive ability later in life. The 
egg laying abilities of laboratory reared females of the Mediterranean fruit fly 
(Ceratitis capitata Wiedmann) and melon fly (Bactrocera cucurbitae Coquillett) 
from Hawaii are delayed or suppressed by limiting access to host fruits and 
dietary protein. In each case, this is expected to prevent the loss of lifespan 
associated with reproduction until protein or hosts are introduced. Two trends 
are observed in each species: Firstly, access to protein at eclosion leads to a 
greater probability of survival and higher reproductive ability than if it is 
delayed, and secondly, that delayed host access reduces lifetime reproductive 
ability without improving life expectancy. When host access and protein 
availability are delayed, the rate of reproductive senescence is reduced in the 
medfly, whereas the rate of reproductive senescence is generally increased in 
the melon fly. Overall, delaying reproduction lowers the fitness of females by 
constraining their fecundity for the remainder of the lifespan without extending 
the lifespan.

DOI: 10.1111/phen.12006
PMCID: PMC3589575
PMID: 23483775


498. Ann Maxillofac Surg. 2011 Jul;1(2):102-6. doi: 10.4103/2231-0746.92766.

Cardiovascular monitoring and its consequences in oral surgery.

Lambrecht JT(1), Filippi A, Arrigoni J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery, Oral Radiology and Oral Medicine, University of 
Basel, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: Higher life expectancy has lead to an increase of elderly patients in 
dental practices, thus also causing an increase in high-risk cardiovascular 
patients.
STUDY DESIGN: In all, 3012 patients had oral surgery with local anesthesia at 
the Department of Oral Surgery, Oral Radiology and Oral Medicine at the 
University of Basel. The Colin BP 306 compact monitor was used during these 
surgeries. The patient's heart rate, blood pressure, and oxygen saturation were 
routinely checked, both before and during the procedure.
RESULTS: The oral surgical procedure had to be discontinued 17 times, because 
the patient developed significantly elevated blood pressure. Twice, the 
procedure had to be discontinued due to cardiac arrhythmia. The average age of 
these 19 patients was 63.5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Pre-and intraoperative monitoring allows the dentist to identify 
patients with high-risk diagnostic findings and to reduce problematic 
cardiovascular situations.

DOI: 10.4103/2231-0746.92766
PMCID: PMC3591025
PMID: 23483785

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


499. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e58577. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058577. Epub 2013 Mar
6.

At what price? A cost-effectiveness analysis comparing trial of labour after 
previous caesarean versus elective repeat caesarean delivery.

Fawsitt CG(1), Bourke J, Greene RA, Everard CM, Murphy A, Lutomski JE.

Author information:
(1)National Perinatal Epidemiology Centre, Cork, Ireland. c.fawsitt@ucc.ie

BACKGROUND: Elective repeat caesarean delivery (ERCD) rates have been increasing 
worldwide, thus prompting obstetric discourse on the risks and benefits for the 
mother and infant. Yet, these increasing rates also have major economic 
implications for the health care system. Given the dearth of information on the 
cost-effectiveness related to mode of delivery, the aim of this paper was to 
perform an economic evaluation on the costs and short-term maternal health 
consequences associated with a trial of labour after one previous caesarean 
delivery compared with ERCD for low risk women in Ireland.
METHODS: Using a decision analytic model, a cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) 
was performed where the measure of health gain was quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) over a six-week time horizon. A review of international literature was 
conducted to derive representative estimates of adverse maternal health outcomes 
following a trial of labour after caesarean (TOLAC) and ERCD. Delivery/procedure 
costs derived from primary data collection and combined both "bottom-up" and 
"top-down" costing estimations.
RESULTS: Maternal morbidities emerged in twice as many cases in the TOLAC group 
than the ERCD group. However, a TOLAC was found to be the most-effective method 
of delivery because it was substantially less expensive than ERCD (€ 1,835.06 
versus € 4,039.87 per women, respectively), and QALYs were modestly higher (0.84 
versus 0.70). Our findings were supported by probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinicians need to be well informed of the benefits and risks of 
TOLAC among low risk women. Ideally, clinician-patient discourse would address 
differences in length of hospital stay and postpartum recovery time. While it is 
premature advocate a policy of TOLAC across maternity units, the results of the 
study prompt further analysis and repeat iterations, encouraging future studies 
to synthesis previous research and new and relevant evidence under a single 
comprehensive decision model.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0058577
PMCID: PMC3590223
PMID: 23484038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


500. Duodecim. 2013;129(4):410-7.

[Conservative treatment for inoperable malign intestinal obstruction].

[Article in Finnish]

Saarto T(1), Osterlund P, Lepistö A.

Author information:
(1)HYKS, syöpätautien klinikka ja Tampereen yliopisto.

Intestinal obstruction is a common complication in peritoneal cancers. 
Obstructions occur especially as the cancer advances, at a time when life 
expectancy is often only a few months. Characteristic symptoms include nausea, 
vomiting, constipation, lack of bowel function, colicky and persistent abdominal 
pains. Conservative treatment aims to secure intestinal transit by applying 
pharmacologic therapies in cases where surgical therapy in partial or functional 
obstruction is not possible or reasonable. Pharmacologic therapy consists of 
antisecretory and antiemetic drugs combined with opioids.

PMID: 23484358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Mol Pharm. 2013 May 6;10(5):1725-35. doi: 10.1021/mp300561y. Epub 2013 Mar
26.

Design of hybrid lipid/retroviral-like particle gene delivery vectors.

Keswani RK(1), Pozdol IM, Pack DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical and Biomolecular Engineering, University of Illinois 
at Urbana-Champaign, Urbana, Illinois 61801, United States.

Recombinant retroviruses provide highly efficient gene delivery and the 
potential for stable gene expression. The retroviral envelope protein, however, 
is the source of significant disadvantages such as immunogenicity, poor 
stability (half-life of transduction activity of 5-7 h at 37 °C for amphotropic 
murine leukemia virus), and difficult production and purification. To address 
these problems, we report the construction of efficient hybrid vectors through 
the association of murine leukemia virus (MLV)-like particles (M-VLP) with 
synthetic liposomes comprising DOTAP, DOPE, and cholesterol (φ/M-VLP). We 
conclude that the lipid composition is a significant determinant of the 
transfection efficiency and uptake of φ/M-VLP in HEK293 cells with favorable 
compositions for transfections being those with low DOTAP, low DOPE, and high 
cholesterol content. Cellular uptake, however, was dependent on DOTAP content 
alone. By extrusion of liposomes prior to vector assembly, the size of these 
hybrid vectors could also be decreased to ≈300 nm, as confirmed via DLS and TEM. 
φ/M-VLP were also robust on storage in terms of vector size and transfection 
efficiency and provided stable transgene expression over a period of three 
weeks. We conclude that the noncovalent combination of biocompatible synthetic 
lipids with inactive retroviral particles to form a highly efficient hybrid 
vector is a significant extension to the development of novel gene delivery 
platforms.

DOI: 10.1021/mp300561y
PMCID: PMC3646931
PMID: 23485145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2013 Apr;17(4):552-8. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.12.0627.

Cost utility of lateral-flow urine lipoarabinomannan for tuberculosis diagnosis 
in HIV-infected African adults.

Sun D(1), Dorman S, Shah M, Manabe YC, Moodley VM, Nicol MP, Dowdy DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland 21205, USA.

SETTING: In-patient hospitals in South Africa and Uganda.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a lateral-flow urine 
lipoarabinomannan (LAM) test when added to existing strategies for tuberculosis 
(TB) diagnosis in human immunodeficiency virus infected adults (CD4(+) T-cell 
counts < 100 cells/l) with symptoms of active TB.
DESIGN: Decision-analytic cost-utility model, with the primary outcome being the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, expressed in 2010 US dollars per 
disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted from the perspective of a public 
sector TB control program.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: For every 1000 patients tested, adding lateral-flow 
urine LAM generated 80 incremental appropriate anti-tuberculosis treatments and 
averted 224 DALYs. Estimated cost utility was US$353 per DALY averted (95% 
uncertainty range $192$1161) in South Africa and $86 per DALY averted (95% 
uncertainty range $49$239) in Uganda, reflecting the lower treatment costs in 
Uganda. Cost utility was most sensitive to assay specificity, cost of 
anti-tuberculosis treatment, life expectancy after TB cure and cohort TB 
prevalence, but did not rise above $1500 per DALY averted in South Africa under 
any one-way sensitivity analysis. The probability of acceptability was >99.8% at 
a per-DALY willingness-to-pay threshold equal to the per capita gross domestic 
product in South Africa ($7275) and Uganda ($509).

DOI: 10.5588/ijtld.12.0627
PMCID: PMC3918209
PMID: 23485389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2013 Jun 1;38(13):E767-74. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e318290fb0f.

Do cervical collars and cervicothoracic orthoses effectively stabilize the 
injured cervical spine? A biomechanical investigation.

Ivancic PC(1).

Author information:
(1)Biomechanics Research Laboratory, Department of Orthopaedics and 
Rehabilitation, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT 06520, USA. 
paul.ivancic@yale.edu

STUDY DESIGN: In vitro biomechanical study.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to determine the effectiveness of cervical collars 
and cervicothoracic orthoses for stabilizing clinically relevant, experimentally 
produced cervical spine injuries.
