Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(2)West German Heart Institute, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(3)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, USA.
(4)Program in Nutritional Metabolism, Massachusetts General Hospital & Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, USA.
(5)Alfried Krupp von Bohlen und Halbach Foundation-Institute for Health Systems 
Management, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany.
(6)Cardiac MR, PET, CT Program, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General 
Hospital & Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA.
(7)Institute for Technology Assessment, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital & Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA Center for Health 
Decision Science, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of 
Public Health, Boston, USA.
(8)Institute for Technology Assessment, Department of Radiology, Massachusetts 
General Hospital & Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA Alfried Krupp von Bohlen 
und Halbach Foundation-Institute for Health Systems Management, University of 
Duisburg-Essen, Essen, Germany Cardiac MR, PET, CT Program, Department of 
Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital & Harvard Medical School, Boston, USA 
Deptartment of Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment, UMIT - University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and 
Technology, Hall i.T., Austria alex@mgh-ita.org.

BACKGROUND: HIV-infected patients are at increased risk of coronary artery 
disease (CAD). We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of cardiac screening for 
HIV-positive men at intermediate or greater CAD risk.
DESIGN: We developed a lifetime microsimulation model of CAD incidence and 
progression in HIV-infected men.
METHODS: Input parameters were derived from two HIV cohort studies and the 
literature. We compared no CAD screening with stress testing and coronary 
computed tomography angiography (CCTA)-based strategies. Patients with test 
results indicating 3-vessel/left main CAD underwent invasive coronary 
angiography (ICA) and received coronary artery bypass graft surgery. In the 
stress testing + medication and CCTA + medication strategies, patients with 
1-2-vessel CAD results received lifetime medical treatment without further 
diagnostics whereas in the stress testing + intervention and CCTA + intervention 
strategies, patients with these results underwent ICA and received percutaneous 
coronary intervention.
RESULTS: Compared to no screening, the stress testing + medication, stress 
testing + intervention, CCTA + medication, and CCTA + intervention strategies 
resulted in 14, 11, 19, and 14 quality-adjusted life days per patient and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of 49,261, 57,817, 34,887 and 56,518 Euros 
per quality-adjusted life year (QALY), respectively. Screening only at higher 
CAD risk thresholds was more cost-effective. Repeated screening was clinically 
beneficial compared to one-time screening, but only stress testing + medication 
every 5 years remained cost-effective. At a willingness-to-pay threshold of 
83,000 €/QALY (∼ 100,000 US$/QALY), implementing any CAD screening was 
cost-effective with a probability of 75-95%.
CONCLUSIONS: Screening HIV-positive men for CAD would be clinically beneficial 
and comes at a cost-effectiveness ratio comparable to other accepted 
interventions in HIV care.

© The European Society of Cardiology 2013 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/2047487313483607
PMCID: PMC3841232
PMID: 23539717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Soc Sci Med. 2013 May;85:66-73. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.02.040. Epub
2013  Mar 5.

Changing expectations concerning life-extending treatment: the relevance of 
opportunity cost.

Gill B(1), Griffin B, Hesketh B.

Author information:
(1)University of Western Sydney, Locked Bag 1797, Penrith 1797, NSW, Australia. 
b.gill@uws.edu.au

Rising public expectations and health care costs along with demographic ageing 
raise questions about whether individuals should consider the drain on community 
resources when deciding whether to have expensive, life-extending medical 
interventions towards the end of their lifespan. All respondents (n = 208) in 
this novel, policy-capturing study were prepared to nominate an age along their 
life trajectory where they would likely decline a life-extending medical 
intervention indicating a "sense of limits" or "reasonableness" associated with 
the concept of a natural lifespan. The results showed that individuals altered 
end-of-life decisions in circumstances of higher opportunity cost and competing 
need but their propensity to do so was affected by their age, gender, and their 
expectations of medical progress. Other within-person factors (type of scarcity, 
treatment side effects, and health at diagnosis) affected the age one would 
decline a medical intervention in the face of a life threatening illness. 
Between-person predictors of this age included subjective life expectancy and 
attitude to health spending. The results suggest possibilities for building on 
this sense of reasonableness in public discussions of the opportunity cost of 
current health care resource allocation and by having physicians consider 
appropriate ways of presenting cost of treatment in end-of life contexts.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.02.040
PMID: 23540368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Presse Med. 2013 May;42(5):849-54. doi: 10.1016/j.lpm.2013.02.315. Epub 2013
Mar  27.

[Glycaemic control and complications of diabetes: what about?].

[Article in French]

Bouhanick B(1), Barigou M, Kantambadouno JB, Chamontin B.

Author information:
(1)CHU de Rangueil, service d'HTA et médecine interne TSA 50 032, 31059 Toulouse 
cedex 9, France. duly-bouhanick.b@chu-toulouse.fr

In France, 2.8 millions of patients have type 2 diabetes, which is a 
well-established risk factor for cardiovascular disease. In about 15 years, 
several large clinical trials tried to study the relationship between a tight 
glycaemic control and the occurrence of micro- and macroangiopathy. 
Meta-analyses of targeting intensive versus conventional glycaemic control 
focused on divergent results. In type 1 diabetes, a tight glycaemic control 
reduced the occurrence of microangiopathy whereas more time, at least 5 years is 
needed to reduce macroangiopathy. Conclusions drawn from studies are less clear 
for type 2 diabetes and depend on the caracteristics of the population studied, 
particularly for retinopathy. When microalbuminuria is the judgement criteria, 
its progression is lower in the intensive group than in the conventional one and 
it takes more than about 5 years to emerge; the impact on glomerular filtration 
rate is less clear. Worries about the excess of mortality observed in the ACCORD 
study in the intensive treatment group were not described in other studies. The 
decrease of mortality was not associated with an intensive glyceamic control. 
Intensified multifactorial intervention is finally needed to improve 
microangiopathy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lpm.2013.02.315
PMID: 23540378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Br J Gen Pract. 2013 Apr;63(609):e291-9. doi: 10.3399/bjgp13X665260.

The Public Health Impact score: a new measure of public health effectiveness for 
general practices in England.

Ashworth M(1), Schofield P, Doran T, Cookson R, Sutton M, Seed PT, Howe A, 
Fleetcroft R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Public Health Sciences, King's College London 
School of Medicine, UK. mark.ashworth@kcl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Health policy in the UK is increasingly focused on the measurement 
of outcomes rather than structures and processes of health care.
AIM: To develop a measure of the effectiveness of primary care in terms of 
population health outcomes.
DESIGN AND SETTING: A cross-sectional study of general practices in England.
METHOD: Twenty clinical quality of care indicators for which there was evidence 
of mortality reduction were identified from the national Quality and Outcomes 
Framework (QOF) pay-for-performance scheme. The number of lives saved by 8136 
English practices (97.97% of all practices) in 2009/2010 was estimated, based on 
their performance on these measures, and a public health impact measure, the PHI 
score, was constructed. Multilevel regression models were used to identify 
practice and population predictors of PHI scores.
RESULTS: The mean estimated PHI score was 258.9 (standard deviation [SD] = 73.3) 
lives saved per 100 000 registered patients, per annum. This represents 75.7% of 
the maximum potential PHI score of 340.9 (SD = 91.8). PHI and QOF scores were 
weakly correlated (Pearson r = 0.28). The most powerful predictors of PHI score 
were the prevalence of the relevant clinical conditions (β = 0.77) and the 
proportion of patients aged ≥65 years (β = 0.22). General practices that were 
less successful at achieving their maximum potential PHI score were those with a 
lower prevalence of relevant conditions (β = 0.29), larger list sizes (β = 
-0.16), greater area deprivation (β = -0.15), and a larger proportion of 
patients aged ≥65 years (β = -0.13).
CONCLUSION: The PHI score is a potential alternative metric of practice 
performance, measuring the estimated mortality reduction in the registered 
population. Rewards under the QOF pay-for-performance scheme are not closely 
aligned to the public health impact of practices.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp13X665260
PMCID: PMC3609477
PMID: 23540486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Lancet. 2013 Mar 30;381(9872):1075-6. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60356-6.

Health in Europe--policies for progress.

Ricciardi W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine and Surgery, Università 
Cattolica del Sacro Cuore, 1-00168 Rome, Italy. wricciardi@rm.unicatt.it

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60356-6
PMID: 23541051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Lancet. 2013 Mar 30;381(9872):1125-34. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)62082-0.

The unequal health of Europeans: successes and failures of policies.

Mackenbach JP(1), Karanikolos M, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, Netherlands.

Europe, with its 53 countries and divided history, is a remarkable but 
inadequately exploited natural laboratory for studies of the eff ects of health 
policy. In this paper, the fi rst in a Series about health in Europe, we review 
developments in population health in Europe, with a focus on trends in 
mortality, and draw attention to the main successes and failures of health 
policy in the past four decades. In western Europe, life expectancy has improved 
almost continuously, but progress has been erratic in eastern Europe, and, as a 
result, disparities in male life expectancy between the two areas are greater 
now than they were four decades ago. The falls in mortality noted in western 
Europe are associated with many different causes of death and show the combined 
eff ects of economic growth, improved health care, and successful health 
policies (eg, tobacco control, road traffic safety). Less favourable mortality 
trends in eastern Europe show economic and health-care problems and a failure to 
implement effective health policies. The political history of Europe has left 
deep divisions in the health of the population. Important health challenges 
remain in both western and eastern Europe and signify unresolved issues in 
health policy (eg, alcohol, food) and rising health inequalities within 
countries.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)62082-0
PMID: 23541053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Lancet. 2013 Mar 30;381(9872):1145-55. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)62084-4.

Health and health systems in the Commonwealth of Independent States.

Rechel B(1), Roberts B, Richardson E, Shishkin S, Shkolnikov VM, Leon DA, Bobak 
M, Karanikolos M, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies, London School of Hygiene 
& Tropical Medicine, London, UK. bernd.rechel@lshtm.ac.uk

The countries of the Commonwealth of Independent States differ substantially in 
their post-Soviet economic development but face many of the same challenges to 
health and health systems. Life expectancies dropped steeply in the 1990s, and 
several countries have yet to recover the levels noted before the dissolution of 
the Soviet Union. Cardiovascular disease is a much bigger killer in the 
Commonwealth of Independent States than in western Europe because of hazardous 
alcohol consumption and high smoking rates in men, the breakdown of social 
safety nets, rising social inequality, and inadequate health services. These 
former Soviet countries have embarked on reforms to their health systems, often 
aiming to strengthen primary care, scale back hospital capacities, reform 
mechanisms for paying providers and pooling funds, and address the overall 
shortage of public funding for health. However, major challenges remain, such as 
frequent private out-of-pocket payments for health care and underdeveloped 
systems for improvement of quality of care.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(12)62084-4
PMID: 23541055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Lancet. 2013 Apr 13;381(9874):1257-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60587-5.
Epub  2013 Mar 27.

Health in Europe--a view from across the Atlantic.

Braveman P(1).

Author information:
(1)Center on Social Disparities in Health, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA 94118, USA. braveman@fcm.ucsf.edu

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60587-5
PMID: 23541060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Spine J. 2013 Jul;13(7):723-31. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2013.02.038. Epub 2013
Mar  27.

Surgically treated cervical myelopathy: a functional outcome comparison study 
between multilevel anterior cervical decompression fusion with instrumentation 
and posterior laminoplasty.

Seng C(1), Tow BP, Siddiqui MA, Srivastava A, Wang L, Yew AK, Yeo W, Khoo SH, 
Balakrishnan NM, Bin Abd Razak HR, Chen JL, Guo CM, Tan SB, Yue WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Singapore General Hospital, 1 Outram Rd, 
Singapore 169608, Singapore.

Comment in
    Spine J. 2013 Jul;13(7):732-3.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Multilevel cervical myelopathy can be treated with anterior 
cervical discectomy and fusion (ACDF) or corpectomy via the anterior approach 
and laminoplasty via the posterior approach. Till date, there is no proven 
superior approach.
PURPOSE: To elucidate any potential advantage of one approach over the other 
with regard to clinical midterm outcomes in this study.
STUDY DESIGN: A prospective, 2-year follow-up of patients with cervical 
myelopathy treated with multilevel anterior cervical decompression fusion and 
plating and posterior laminoplasty.
PATIENT SAMPLE: In total, 116 patients were studied. Sixty-four patients 
underwent ACDF two levels and above or anterior cervical corpectomy and fusion 
one level and above. Fifty-two patients underwent posterior cervical surgery 
(laminoplasty C3-C6 and C3-C7).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Self-report measures: Japan Orthopedic Association (JOA) 
score, JOA recovery rate, visual analog scale for neck pain (VASNP), neck 
disability index (NDI), and American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons (AAOS) 
neurogenic symptom score (AAOS-NSS). Physiologic measures: range of motion (ROM) 
flexion and extension of neck. Functional measures: short-form 36 (SF-36) score 
comprising physical functioning, physical role function, bodily pain, general 
health, vitality, social role function, emotional role function, and mental 
health scales.
METHODS: Comparison of the JOA scores, JOA recovery rates, NDI scores, SF-36 
scores, VASNP, and ROM preoperatively to 2 years. Chi-square and two-sided 
Student t tests were used to analyze the variables.
RESULTS: Posterior surgery took an hour shorter (p<.05) and had better 
improvement in JOA scores at early follow-up of 6 months (p=.025). Anterior 
surgery group had better improvement of NDI scores at early follow-up of 6 
months (p=.024) and was associated with less blood loss intraoperatively 
compared with posterior surgery. There was no statistical difference between the 
two groups for JOA scores, JOA recovery rates, SF-36 quality-of-life scores, 
NDI, AAOS-NSS, VAS neck pain, and ROM at 2 years. Complications were higher for 
anterior surgery group: two hematoma postoperation, one vocal cord paresis, and 
one new onset C6/C7 dermatome numbness versus one dura leak in posterior surgery 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study showed that patients with multilevel disease treated with 
laminoplasty do well and compare favorably with patients treated with an 
anterior approach. Notably, posterior surgery was associated with shorter 
operating time, better improvement in JOA scores at 6 months, and a tendency 
toward lesser complications. Posterior surgery was not associated with increased 
neck disability and neck pain at 2 years. Anterior surgery had better NDI 
improvement at early follow-up. There is a need for a larger study that is 
prospectively randomized with long-term follow-up before we can confidently 
advocate one approach over the other in the management of cervical myelopathy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2013.02.038
PMID: 23541452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Best Pract Res Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 2013 Oct;27(5):643-59. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2013.02.005. Epub 2013 Mar 28.

The clinical consequences of an ageing world and preventive strategies.

Lunenfeld B(1), Stratton P.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, Ramat Gan 52900, Israel. 
Electronic address: blunenfeld@gmail.com.

Over the past century, the world has seen unprecedented declines in mortality 
rates, leading to an accelerated increase in the world population. This century 
will realise falling fertility rates alongside ageing populations. The 20th 
century was the century of population growth; the 21st century will be 
remembered as the century of ageing. Increase in life expectancy is one of the 
highest achievements of humankind; however, ageing and age-related disease is a 
mounting challenge for individuals, families, and for social, economic, and 
healthcare systems. Since healthy life expectancy has lagged behind the increase 
in life expectancy, the rise in morbidity will increase the burden on healthcare 
systems. Implementation of preventive health strategies to decrease, delay or 
prevent frailty, lung, breast and colon cancer, cardiovascular disease, 
metabolic syndrome, osteoporosis and osteopaenia, may increase health 
expectancy, and permit women to age gracefully and maintain independent living, 
without disability, for as long as possible.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2013.02.005
PMCID: PMC3776003
PMID: 23541823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. J Health Econ. 2013 May;32(3):515-23. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2013.01.006.
Epub  2013 Feb 19.

A new axiomatic approach to the evaluation of population health.

Hougaard JL(1), Moreno-Ternero JD, Østerdal LP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Food and Resource Economics, University of Copenhagen, Denmark.

In this paper we explore the implications of normative principles for the 
evaluation of population health. We formalize those principles as axioms for 
social preferences over distributions of health for a given population. We 
single out several focal population health evaluation functions, which represent 
social preferences, as a result of combinations of those axioms. Our results 
provide new rationale for popular theories in health economics, such as the 
unweighted aggregation of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) or healthy years 
equivalents (HYEs) and generalizations of the two, aimed to capture concerns for 
distributive justice, without resorting to controversial assumptions on 
individual preferences.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2013.01.006
PMID: 23542019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Exp Gerontol. 2013 Jun;48(6):539-48. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.03.007. Epub
2013  Mar 29.

The lifespan-reproduction trade-off under dietary restriction is sex-specific 
and context-dependent.

Adler MI(1), Cassidy EJ, Fricke C, Bonduriansky R.

Author information:
(1)Evolution & Ecology Research Centre and School of Biological, Earth and 
Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney NSW 2052 
Australia. margo.adler@gmail.com

Adult dietary restriction (DR) extends lifespan, but the mechanisms that 
underlie this effect are not well understood. Many DR studies have demonstrated 
that lifespan extension tends to be accompanied by a reduction in female 
fecundity - a correlation widely interpreted as evidence that DR triggers an 
adaptive re - allocation of resources from reproduction to somatic maintenance. 
Yet, recent evidence suggests that survival and fecundity need not always trade 
off under DR, calling the re-allocation hypothesis into question. Because the 
effects of DR on both survival and reproduction have rarely been tested in both 
sexes, or under a range of ecologically-relevant environments, the generality of 
this trade-off remains unclear. We examined the effects of DR on survival and 
reproduction in both sexes and across a range of environments (larval diet 
quality and adult sex ratio) in the neriid fly Telostylinus angusticollis. We 
found that the lifespan-reproduction trade-off is both context- and 
sex-dependent. Although DR extended lifespan in both sexes by 65% and rendered 
females completely infertile, costs of DR on male fecundity were subtle and 
evident only in particular environmental combinations. Our findings suggest that 
a re-allocation of resources may not underlie the lifespan extension response to 
DR. Instead, full feeding may be associated with increased costs in comparison 
to DR, such that lifespan extension may be achieved without an increased 
resource investment to the soma.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.03.007
PMID: 23542072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Mar 28;(3):CD009072. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD009072.pub2.

Pathogen-reduced platelets for the prevention of bleeding.

Butler C(1), Doree C, Estcourt LJ, Trivella M, Hopewell S, Brunskill SJ, 
Stanworth S, Murphy MF.

Author information:
(1)Haematology Department, Oxford Radcliffe Hospital NHS Trust, Maidenhead, UK.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2017 Jul 30;7:CD009072.

BACKGROUND: Platelet transfusions are used to prevent and treat bleeding in 
patients who are thrombocytopenic. Despite improvements in donor screening and 
laboratory testing, a small risk of viral, bacterial or protozoal contamination 
of platelets remains. There is also an ongoing risk from newly emerging blood 
transfusion-transmitted infections (TTIs) for which laboratory tests may not be 
available at the time of initial outbreak.One solution to reduce further the 
risk of TTIs from platelet transfusion is photochemical pathogen reduction, a 
process by which pathogens are either inactivated or significantly depleted in 
number, thereby reducing the chance of transmission. This process might offer 
additional benefits, including platelet shelf-life extension, and negate the 
requirement for gamma-irradiation of platelets. Although current 
pathogen-reduction technologies have been proven significantly to reduce 
pathogen load in platelet concentrates, a number of published clinical studies 
have raised concerns about the effectiveness of pathogen-reduced platelets for 
post-transfusion platelet recovery and the prevention of bleeding when compared 
with standard platelets.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of pathogen-reduced platelets for the 
prevention of bleeding in patients requiring platelet transfusions.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials 
(CENTRAL, The Cochrane Library 2013, Issue 1), MEDLINE (1950 to 18 February 
2013), EMBASE (1980 to 18 February 2013), CINAHL (1982 to 18 February 2013) and 
the Transfusion Evidence Library (1980 to 18 February 2013). We also searched 
several international and ongoing trial databases and citation-tracked relevant 
reference lists. We requested information on possible unpublished trials from 
known investigators in the field.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing 
the transfusion of pathogen-reduced platelets with standard platelets. We did 
not identify any RCTs which compared the transfusion of one type of 
pathogen-reduced platelets with another.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: One author screened all references, excluding 
duplicates and those clearly irrelevant. Two authors then screened the remaining 
references, confirmed eligibility, extracted data and analysed trial quality 
independently. We requested and obtained a significant amount of missing data 
from trial authors. We performed meta-analyses where appropriate using the 
fixed-effect model for risk ratios (RR) or mean differences (MD), with 95% 
confidence intervals (95% CI), and used the I² statistic to explore 
heterogeneity, employing the random-effects model when I² was greater than 30%.
MAIN RESULTS: We included 10 trials comparing pathogen-reduced platelets with 
standard platelets. Nine trials assessed Intercept® pathogen-reduced platelets 
and one trial Mirasol® pathogen-reduced platelets. Two were randomised 
cross-over trials and the remaining eight were parallel-group RCTs. In total, 
1422 participants were available for analysis across the 10 trials, of which 675 
participants received Intercept® and 56 Mirasol® platelet transfusions. Four 
trials assessed the response to a single study platelet transfusion (all 
Intercept®) and six to multiple study transfusions (Intercept® (N = 5), Mirasol® 
(N = 1)) compared with standard platelets.We found the trials to be generally at 
low risk of bias but heterogeneous regarding the nature of the interventions 
(platelet preparation), protocols for platelet transfusion, definitions of 
outcomes, methods of outcome assessment and duration of follow-up.Our primary 
outcomes were mortality, 'any bleeding', 'clinically significant bleeding' and 
'severe bleeding', and were grouped by duration of follow-up: short (up to 48 
hours), medium (48 hours to seven days) or long (more than seven days). 
Meta-analysis of data from five trials of multiple platelet transfusions 
reporting 'any bleeding' over a long follow-up period found an increase in 
bleeding in those receiving pathogen-reduced platelets compared with standard 
platelets using the fixed-effect model (RR 1.09, 95% CI 1.02 to 1.15, I² = 59%); 
however, this meta-analysis showed no difference between treatment arms when 
using the random-effects model (RR 1.14, 95% CI 0.93 to 1.38).There was no 
evidence of a difference between treatment arms in the number of patients with 
'clinically significant bleeding' (reported by four out of the same five trials) 
or 'severe bleeding' (reported by all five trials) (respectively, RR 1.06, 95% 
CI 0.93 to 1.21, I² = 2%; RR 1.27, 95% CI 0.76 to 2.12, I² = 51%). We also found 
no evidence of a difference between treatment arms for all-cause mortality, 
acute transfusion reactions, adverse events, serious adverse events and red cell 
transfusion requirements in the trials which reported on these outcomes. No 
bacterial transfusion-transmitted infections occurred in the six trials that 
reported this outcome.Although the definition of platelet refractoriness 
differed between trials, the relative risk of this event was 2.74 higher 
following pathogen-reduced platelet transfusion (RR 2.74, 95% CI 1.84 to 4.07, 
I² = 0%). Participants required 7% more platelet transfusions following 
pathogen-reduced platelet transfusion when compared with standard platelet 
transfusion (MD 0.07, 95% CI 0.03 to 0.11, I² = 21%), although the interval 
between platelet transfusions was only shown to be significantly shorter 
following multiple Intercept® pathogen-reduced platelet transfusion when 
compared with standard platelet transfusion (MD -0.51, 95% CI -0.66 to -0.37, I² 
= 0%). In trials of multiple pathogen-reduced platelets, our analyses showed the 
one- and 24-hour count and corrected count increments to be significantly 
inferior to standard platelets. However, one-hour increments were similar in 
trials of single platelet transfusions, although the 24-hour count and corrected 
count increments were again significantly lower.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: We found no evidence of a difference in mortality, 
'clinically significant' or 'severe bleeding', transfusion reactions or adverse 
events between pathogen-reduced and standard platelets. For a range of 
laboratory outcomes the results indicated evidence of some benefits for standard 
platelets over pathogen-reduced platelets. These conclusions are based on data 
from 1422 patients included in 10 trials. Results from ongoing or new trials are 
required to determine if there are clinically important differences in bleeding 
risk between pathogen-reduced platelet transfusions and standard platelet 
transfusions. Given the variability in trial design, bleeding assessment and 
quality of outcome reporting, it is recommended that future trials apply 
standardised approaches to outcome assessment and follow-up, including safety 
reporting.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009072.pub2
PMID: 23543569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Mar 28;(3):CD009191. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD009191.pub2.

Angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitors for proteinuria and 
microalbuminuria in people with sickle cell disease.

Sasongko TH(1), Nagalla S, Ballas SK.

Author information:
(1)Human Genome Center, School of Medical Sciences, Universiti Sains Malaysia, 
Kota Bharu, Malaysia. teguhharyosasongko@yahoo.com

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015;(6):CD009191.

BACKGROUND: Sickle cell disease is a group of disorders characterized by 
deformation of erythrocytes. Renal damage is a frequent complication in sickle 
cell disease as a result of long-standing anemia and disturbed circulation 
through the renal medullary capillaries. Due to the improvement in life 
expectancy of people with sickle cell disease, there has been a corresponding 
significant increase in the incidence of renal complications. Microalbuminuria 
and proteinuria are noted to be a strong predictor of subsequent renal failure. 
There is extensive experience and evidence with angiotensin-converting enzyme 
(ACE) inhibitors over many years in a variety of clinical situations for 
patients who do not have sickle cell disease, but their effect in patients with 
this disease is unknown. It is common practice to administer ACE inhibitors for 
sickle nephropathy due to their renoprotective properties; however, little is 
known about their effectiveness and safety in this setting.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the effectiveness of ACE inhibitor administration in 
people with sickle cell disease for decreasing intraglomerular pressure, 
microalbuminuria and proteinuria and to to assess the safety of ACE inhibitors 
as pertains to their adverse effects.
SEARCH METHODS: The authors searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic 
Disorders Group's Hameoglobinopathies Trials Register comprising references 
identified from comprehensive electronic database searches and handsearches of 
relevant journals and abstract books of conference proceedings.Date of the most 
recent search: 05 July 2012.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomized or quasi-randomized controlled trials of ACE 
inhibitors designed to reduce microalbuminuria and proteinuria in people with 
sickle cell disease compared to either placebo or standard treatment regimen.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three authors independently applied the inclusion 
criteria in order to select studies for inclusion in the review. Two authors 
assessed the risk of bias of studies and extracted data and the third author 
verified these assessments.
MAIN RESULTS: Five studies were identified through the searches, only one met 
our inclusion criteria. The included study randomized 22 participants (7 males 
and 15 females) having proteinuria or microalbuminuria with sickle cell disease 
and treated the participants for six months (median length of follow-up of three 
months) with captopril or placebo. At six months, the study reported no 
significant difference in urinary albumin excretion between the captopril group 
and the placebo group, although the mean urinary albumin excretion in the 
captopril group was lower by a mean difference of -49.00 (95% confidence 
interval -124.10 to 26.10) compared to that of placebo. However, our analysis on 
the absolute change score showed significant changes between the two groups by a 
mean difference of -63.00 (95% confidence interval -93.78 to -32.22). At six 
months albumin excretion in the captopril group was noted to decrease from 
baseline by a mean of 45 ± 23 mg/day and the placebo group was noted to increase 
by 18 ± 45 mg/day. Serum creatinine and potassium levels were reported constant 
throughout the study. The potential for inducing hypotension should be 
highlighted; the study reported a decrease of 8 mmHg in systolic pressure and 5 
mmHg in diastolic and mean blood pressure.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is not enough evidence to show that the 
administration of ACE inhibitors is associated with a reduction of 
microalbuminuria and proteinuria in people with sickle cell disease, although a 
potential for this was seen. More long-term studies involving multiple centers 
and larger cohorts using a randomized-controlled design are warranted, 
especially among the pediatric age group. Detailed reporting of each outcome 
measure is necessary to allow a clear cut interpretation in a systematic review. 
One of the difficulties encountered in this review was the lack of detailed data 
reported in the included study.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009191.pub2
PMID: 23543572 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Mar 28;(3):CD009228. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD009228.pub2.

Helicopter emergency medical services for adults with major trauma.

Galvagno SM Jr(1), Thomas S, Stephens C, Haut ER, Hirshon JM, Floccare D, 
Pronovost P.

Author information:
(1)R. Adams Cowley Shock Trauma Center, University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD, 
USA. sgalvagno@anes.umm.edu.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015;(12):CD009228.

BACKGROUND: Although helicopters are presently an integral part of trauma 
systems in most developed nations, previous reviews and studies to date have 
raised questions about which groups of traumatically injured patients derive the 
greatest benefit.
OBJECTIVES: The purpose of this review is to determine if helicopter emergency 
medical services transport (HEMS) is associated with improved morbidity and 
mortality, compared to ground emergency medical services transport (GEMS), for 
adults with major trauma. The primary outcome was survival to hospital 
discharge. Secondary outcomes were quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs).
SEARCH METHODS: Searches were run in CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL 
(EBSCOhost), SCI-EXPANDED, CPCI-S, and ZETOC in January 2012. Relevant websites 
were also searched, including controlled trials registers, HSRProj, the World 
Health Organization (WHO) ICTRP, and OpenSIGLE. Searches were not restricted by 
date, language, or publication status. Attempts were made to contact authors in 
the case of missing data.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Eligible trials included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) 
and non-randomised intervention studies. Non-randomised studies (NRS), including 
controlled trials and cohort studies, were also evaluated. Each study was 
required to have a GEMS comparison group. An injury severity score (ISS) > 15 or 
an equivalent marker for injury severity was required. Only adults aged 16 years 
or older were included.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Three review authors independently extracted data 
and assessed the risk of bias of included studies. The Downs and Black quality 
assessment tool was applied for NRS. The results were analysed in a narrative 
review, and with studies grouped by methodology and injury type. A predefined 
subgroup was comprised of four additional studies that examined the role of HEMS 
versus GEMS for inter-facility transfer. Summary of findings tables were 
constructed in accordance with the GRADE Working Group criteria.
MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-five studies met the entry criteria for this review. Four 
additional studies met the criteria for a separate, predefined subgroup analysis 
of patients transferred to trauma centres by HEMS or GEMS. All studies were 
non-randomised studies; no RCTs were found. Survival at hospital discharge was 
the primary outcome. Data from 163,748 people from 21 of the 25 studies included 
in the primary analysis were available to calculate unadjusted mortality. 
Overall, considerable heterogeneity was observed and an accurate estimate of 
overall effect could not be determined. Based on the unadjusted mortality data 
from five trials that focused on traumatic brain injury, there was no decreased 
risk of death with HEMS (relative risk (RR) 1.02; 95% CI 0.85 to 1.23). Nine 
studies used multivariate regression to adjust for confounding, the five largest 
indicated a statistically significant increased odds of survival associated with 
HEMS. All Trauma-Related Injury Severity Score (TRISS)-based studies indicated 
improved survival in the HEMS group as compared to the Major Trauma Outcomes 
Study (MTOS) cohort; some studies showed survival benefits in both the HEMS and 
GEMS groups as compared to MTOS. No studies were found to evaluate the secondary 
outcome of morbidity as assessed by QALYs and DALYs. All four studies suggested 
a positive benefit when HEMS was used to transfer patients to higher level 
trauma centres. Overall, the quality of the included studies was very low as 
assessed by the GRADE Working Group criteria.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Due to the methodological weakness of the available 
literature, and the considerable heterogeneity of effects and study 
methodologies, an accurate composite estimate of the benefit of HEMS could not 
be determined. Although five of the nine multivariate regression studies 
indicated improved survival associated with HEMS, the remainder did not. All 
were subject to a low quality of evidence as assessed by the GRADE Working Group 
criteria due to their non-randomised design. Similarly, TRISS-based studies, 
which all demonstrated improved survival, cannot be considered strong evidence 
because of their methodology, which did not randomize the use of HEMS. The 
question of which elements of HEMS may be beneficial for patients has not been 
fully answered. The results from this review provide motivation for future work 
in this area. This includes an ongoing need for diligent reporting of research 
methods, which is imperative for transparency and to maximise the potential 
utility of results. Large, multicentre studies are warranted as these will help 
produce more robust estimates of treatment effects. Future work in this area 
should also examine the costs and safety of HEMS, since multiple contextual 
determinants must be considered when evaluating the effects of HEMS for adults 
with major trauma.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009228.pub2
PMID: 23543573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Front Genet. 2013 Mar 28;4:34. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2013.00034. eCollection
2013.

Extreme Depletion of PIP3 Accompanies the Increased Life Span and Stress 
Tolerance of PI3K-null C. elegans Mutants.

Bharill P(1), Ayyadevara S, Alla R, Shmookler Reis RJ.

Author information:
(1)McClellan VA Medical Center, Central Arkansas Veterans Healthcare System 
Little Rock, AR, USA ; Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, 
University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences Little Rock, AR, USA.

The regulation of animal longevity shows remarkable plasticity, in that a 
variety of genetic lesions are able to extend lifespan by as much as 10-fold. 
Such studies have implicated several key signaling pathways that must normally 
limit longevity, since their disruption prolongs life. Little is known, however, 
about the proximal effectors of aging on which these pathways are presumed to 
converge, and to date, no pharmacologic agents even approach the life-extending 
effects of genetic mutation. In the present study, we have sought to define the 
downstream consequences of age-1 nonsense mutations, which confer 10-fold life 
extension to the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans - the largest effect documented 
for any single mutation. Such mutations insert a premature stop codon upstream 
of the catalytic domain of the AGE-1/p110α subunit of class-I PI3K. As expected, 
we do not detect class-I PI3K (and based on our sensitivity, it constitutes <14% 
of wild-type levels), nor do we find any PI3K activity as judged by 
immunodetection of phosphorylated AKT, which strongly requires PIP3 for 
activation by upstream kinases, or immunodetection of its product, PIP3. In the 
latter case, the upper 95%-confidence limit for PIP3 is 1.4% of the wild-type 
level. We tested a variety of commercially available PI3K inhibitors, as well as 
three phosphatidylinositol analogs (PIAs) that are most active in inhibiting AKT 
activation, for effects on longevity and survival of oxidative stress. Of these, 
GDC-0941, PIA6, and PIA24 (each at 1 or 10 μM) extended lifespan by 7-14%, while 
PIAs 6, 12, and 24 (at 1 or 10 μM) increased survival time in 5 mM peroxide by 
12-52%. These effects may have been conferred by insulinlike signaling, since a 
reporter regulated by the DAF-16/FOXO transcription factor, SOD-3::GFP, was 
stimulated by these PIAs in the same rank order (PIA24 > PIA6 > PIA12) as 
lifespan. A second reporter, PEPCK::GFP, was equally activated (∼40%) by all 
three.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2013.00034
PMCID: PMC3610087
PMID: 23543623


668. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e59472. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0059472. Epub 2013 Mar
18.

Networks in a large-scale phylogenetic analysis: reconstructing evolutionary 
history of Asparagales (Lilianae) based on four plastid genes.

Chen S(1), Kim DK, Chase MW, Kim JH.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Science and Technology, Tongji University, Shanghai, China.

Phylogenetic analysis aims to produce a bifurcating tree, which disregards 
conflicting signals and displays only those that are present in a large 
proportion of the data. However, any character (or tree) conflict in a dataset 
allows the exploration of support for various evolutionary hypotheses. Although 
data-display network approaches exist, biologists cannot easily and routinely 
use them to compute rooted phylogenetic networks on real datasets containing 
hundreds of taxa. Here, we constructed an original neighbour-net for a large 
dataset of Asparagales to highlight the aspects of the resulting network that 
will be important for interpreting phylogeny. The analyses were largely 
conducted with new data collected for the same loci as in previous studies, but 
from different species accessions and greater sampling in many cases than in 
published analyses. The network tree summarised the majority data pattern in the 
characters of plastid sequences before tree building, which largely confirmed 
the currently recognised phylogenetic relationships. Most conflicting signals 
are at the base of each group along the Asparagales backbone, which helps us to 
establish the expectancy and advance our understanding of some difficult taxa 
relationships and their phylogeny. The network method should play a greater role 
in phylogenetic analyses than it has in the past. To advance the understanding 
of evolutionary history of the largest order of monocots Asparagales, absolute 
diversification times were estimated for family-level clades using relaxed 
molecular clock analyses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0059472
PMCID: PMC3605904
PMID: 23544071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


669. J Biosoc Sci. 2014 Jan;46(1):107-21. doi: 10.1017/S0021932013000175. Epub
2013  Apr 2.

Global variance in female population height: the influence of education, income, 
human development, life expectancy, mortality and gender inequality in 96 
nations.

Mark QJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Eureka, California, USA.

Human height is a heritable trait that is known to be influenced by 
environmental factors and general standard of living. Individual and population 
stature is correlated with health, education and economic achievement. Strong 
sexual selection pressures for stature have been observed in multiple diverse 
populations, however; there is significant global variance in gender equality 
and prohibitions on female mate selection. This paper explores the contribution 
of general standard of living and gender inequality to the variance in global 
female population heights. Female population heights of 96 nations were culled 
from previously published sources and public access databases. Factor analysis 
with United Nations international data on education rates, life expectancy, 
incomes, maternal and childhood mortality rates, ratios of gender participation 
in education and politics, the Human Development Index (HDI) and the Gender 
Inequality Index (GII) was run. Results indicate that population heights vary 
more closely with gender inequality than with population health, income or 
education.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932013000175
PMID: 23544661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Am J Manag Care. 2013 Feb;19(2 Suppl):S28-34.

Managed care aspects of managing multiple sclerosis.

Mathis AS(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Department, Monmouth Medical Center, Long Branch, New Jersey, USA. 
smathis@barnabashealth.org

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is associated with significant direct and indirect 
costs. Pharmacoeconomic studies of MS therapies have generally shown results 
which were not considered to be cost-effective when incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were analyzed for quality-adjusted life-years. When 
prevented relapses were considered as an end point, the cost-effectiveness 
results were generally more favorable, although the studies analyzed were 
limited by assumptions, projected outcomes, and lack of data on adverse events. 
Managed care professionals and clinicians can ensure maximized effectiveness of 
therapy by supporting adherence and by providing disease therapy management 
programs. Specialty pharmacies are an effective way to control costs and 
optimize the involvement of patients in their care.

PMID: 23544718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Am J Manag Care. 2013;19(3):194-202.

Effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of diabetes prevention among adherent 
participants.

Herman WH(1), Edelstein SL, Ratner RE, Montez MG, Ackermann RT, Orchard TJ, 
Foulkes MA, Zhang P, Saudek CD, Brown MB; Diabetes Prevention Program Research 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

OBJECTIVES: We report the 10-year effectiveness and within-trial 
cost-effectiveness of the Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) and its Outcomes 
Study (DPPOS) interventions among participants who were adherent to the 
interventions.
STUDY DESIGN: DPP was a 3-year randomized clinical trial followed by 7 years of 
open-label modified intervention follow-up.
METHODS: Data on resource utilization, cost, and quality of life were collected 
prospectively. Economic analyses were performed from health system and societal 
perspectives. Lifestyle adherence was defined as achieving and maintaining a 5% 
reduction in initial body weight, and metformin adherence as taking metformin at 
80% of study visits.
RESULTS: The relative risk reduction was 49.4% among adherent lifestyle 
participants and 20.8% among adherent metformin participants compared with 
placebo. Over 10 years, the cumulative, undiscounted, per capita direct medical 
costs of the interventions, as implemented during the DPP, were greater for 
adherent lifestyle participants ($4810) than adherent metformin participants 
($2934) or placebo ($768). Over 10 years, the cumulative, per capita 
non-interventionrelated direct medical costs were $4250 greater for placebo 
participants compared with adherent lifestyle participants and $3251 greater 
compared with adherent metformin participants. The cumulative quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) accrued over 10 years were greater for lifestyle (6.80) than 
metformin (6.74) or placebo (6.67). Without discounting, from a modified 
societal perspective (excluding participant time) and a full societal 
perspective (including participant time), lifestyle cost < $5000 per QALY-gained 
and metformin was cost saving compared with placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: Over 10 years, lifestyle intervention and metformin were 
cost-effective or cost saving compared with placebo. These analyses confirm that 
lifestyle and metformin represent a good value for money.

PMCID: PMC3985133
PMID: 23544761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Orv Hetil. 2013 Apr 7;154(14):531-7. doi: 10.1556/OH.2013.29579.

[Quality of life in diabetes mellitus assessed on the basis of Hungarostudy 
Health Panel survey].

[Article in Hungarian]

Sal I(1), Susánszky E, Papp I.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar Magatartástudományi Intézet 
Budapest. dr.salistvan@vnet.hu

INTRODUCTION: Examining the quality of life has a great importance in the 
treatment of chronic patients.
AIM: The aim of the authors was to assess the national status on the basis of 
the database of the Hungarostudy Health Panel using statistical evaluation.
METHODS: Three validated questionnaries in the test-battery served as 
instruments: the shortened version of the WHO Well-being Questionnaire, the 
Shortened Beck's Depression Scale Rating and the Illness Intrusiveness Rating 
Scale.
RESULTS: It was found that in accordance with international data, the quality of 
life index of Hungarian diabetic patients was significantly worse than that of 
the non-diabetic population.
CONCLUSIONS: International data also show that the decline in quality of life is 
correlated with a decline of cooperation and life expectancy of diabetic 
patients. This explains why methods of behavioral medicine focusing on improving 
life quality are of great importance, that have not yet been considered 
currently in psychoeducation. Referring to international examples the authors 
make a proposal on an extensive survey among Hungarian diabetic patients with 
the help of validated disease-specific questionnaires and using Transtheoretical 
Model in order to make education more efficient.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2013.29579
PMID: 23545231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Orv Hetil. 2013 Apr 7;154(14):546-50. doi: 10.1556/OH.2013.29583.

[Carcinoid heart disease].

[Article in Hungarian]

Bencze A(1), Szücs N, Igaz P, Leiszter K, Nagy Z, Patócs A, Rácz K.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar II. Belgyógyászati Klinika 
Budapest. benczeagnes@hotmail.com

Carcinoids are rare tumors originating from neuroendocrine cells. A large 
proportion of these tumors produce serotonin and other biologically active 
hormones which may produce carcinoid syndrome characterized by flushing, 
diarrhoea and bronchospasm. Carcinoid heart disease, a rare complication of 
carcinoid syndrome, may itself have a great impact on life expectancy of 
patients with carcinoid syndrome. The authors present a case history of a 
patients with carcinoid heart disease and they review the symptoms, diagnosis 
and therapeutic options of this rare complication of carcinoid syndrome.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2013.29583
PMID: 23545233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Neurosciences (Riyadh). 2013 Apr;18(2):152-9.

Management options of chronic low back pain. A randomized blinded clinical 
trial.

Nazzal ME(1), Saadah MA, Saadah LM, Al-Omari MA, Al-Oudat ZA, Nazzal MS, 
El-Beshari MY, Al-Zaabi AA, Alnuaimi YI.

Author information:
(1)Division of Physical Therapy, Department of Allied Medical Sciences, Faculty 
of Medicine, Jordan University of Science and Technology, Irbid, Jordan.

OBJECTIVE: To compare efficacies of 2 active programs in the management of 
chronic low back pain (CLBP).
METHODS: This prospective, stratified, randomized single-blinded controlled 
study was conducted in the Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, King Abdullah 
University Hospital, Irbid, Jordan, between February and December 2010. A total 
of 100 patients were randomized to either 6-weeks of multidisciplinary 
rehabilitation (group A) or therapist-assisted exercise (group B). At baseline 
and 6 weeks, the visual analogue scale (VAS) pain score was estimated, as a 
primary outcome measure. McGill pain score, Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), 
trunk forward flexion and extension, left and right lateral bending, were 
applied before and after treatment and were employed as secondary outcome 
measures.
RESULTS: All outcome measures significantly improved in group A after treatment, 
compared with group B. The VAS, McGill, ODI scores, left and right lateral 
bending decreased significantly, whereas forward and backward bending increased. 
A significant number of patients returned to work in group A at the end of 6 
weeks, compared with group B. These effects were maintained over 12 and 24 weeks 
of follow-up.
CONCLUSION: Multidisciplinary rehabilitation improved functional indices and 
pain scale scores in group A compared with B. This would be an effective 
strategy in CLBP management.

PMID: 23545614 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Nat Rev Urol. 2013 Jun;10(6):336-44. doi: 10.1038/nrurol.2013.52. Epub 2013
Apr  2.

Potential biofluid markers and treatment targets for renal cell carcinoma.

Wettersten HI(1), Weiss RH.
