the lifetime incidence of liver complications in the BOC/RGT and BOC/PR48 
regimens compared with PR48, respectively. Treatment with BOC/RGT is associated 
with an incremental cost of $10,348 and an increase of 0.62 QALYs compared to 
treatment with PR48. Treatment with BOC/PR48 is associated with an incremental 
cost of $35,727 and an increase of 0.65 QALYs compared to treatment with PR48. 
The ICERs were $16,792/QALY and $55,162/QALY for the boceprevir-based treatment 
groups compared with PR48, respectively. The ICER for BOC/PR48 compared with 
BOC/RGT was $807,804.
CONCLUSION: The boceprevir-based regimens used in the SPRINT-2 trial were 
projected to substantially reduce the lifetime incidence of liver complications 
and increase the QALYs in treatment-naive patients with hepatitis C genotype 1. 
It was also demonstrated that boceprevir-based regimens offer patients the 
possibility of experiencing great clinical benefit with a shorter duration of 
therapy. Both boceprevir-based treatment strategies were projected to be 
cost-effective at a reasonable threshold in the US when compared to treatment 
with PR48.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2334-13-190
PMCID: PMC3643851
PMID: 23621902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


906. Med Sci (Paris). 2013 Apr;29(4):373-82. doi: 10.1051/medsci/2013294010. Epub
 2013 Apr 26.

[Antiretroviral drugs-based HIV prevention methods: what impact on the HIV 
epidemic?].

[Article in French]

Supervie V(1).

Author information:
(1)Inserm U943, UMR S943, Université Pierre et Marie Curie, 56, Boulevard 
Vincent Auriol, 75013 Paris, France. virginie.supervie@inserm.fr

Thirty years after the discovery of HIV, the epidemic continues to spread. 
Developing new HIV prevention methods to reduce the number of new HIV infections 
remains a priority. It has recently been shown that antiretroviral (ARV) drugs 
that have largely contributed to increase life expectancy of HIV-infected people 
may also have a direct impact on HIV transmission. Two new ART-based HIV 
prevention methods have proven effective in preventing HIV infection in 
controlled trials and observational studies: pre-exposure prophylaxis (PrEP) and 
treatment as prevention (TasP). PrEP consists of ARV drugs to be taken by 
HIV-negative individuals before potential HIV exposure to reduce the risk of HIV 
infection, while TasP consists of ARV drugs to be taken by individuals living 
with HIV to lower the risk of HIV transmission to others. Although these two new 
prevention tools have proven to be effective at the individual level, their 
population-level impact remains unclear. Herein in addition to reviewing current 
PrEP and TasP data, we discuss the potential impact of these two new prevention 
strategies on the HIV epidemic.

© 2013 médecine/sciences – Inserm / SRMS.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/2013294010
PMID: 23621932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2013 May-Jun;55(6):563-73. doi:
10.1016/j.pcad.2013.03.006.  Epub 2013 Apr 9.

Economics of psychosocial factors in patients with cardiovascular disease.

Rodwin BA(1), Spruill TM, Ladapo JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, New York University School of Medicine, New York 
10016, USA.

Growing evidence supports a causal relationship between cardiovascular disease 
and psychosocial factors such as mental health and behavioral disorders, acute 
and chronic stress, and low socioeconomic status. While this has enriched our 
understanding of the interaction between cardiovascular risk factors, much less 
is known about its economic implications. In this review, we evaluate the 
economic impact of psychosocial factors in persons at risk for or diagnosed with 
cardiovascular disease. Most studies have focused on depression and almost 
uniformly conclude that patients with cardiovascular disease and comorbid 
depression use a greater number of ambulatory and hospital services and incur 
higher overall costs. Additionally, comorbid depression may also reduce 
employment productivity in patients with cardiovascular disease, further 
magnifying its economic impact. Recent randomized trials have demonstrated that 
innovative care delivery models that target depression may reduce costs or at 
least be cost neutral while improving quality of life. The growing population 
burden and overlap of cardiovascular disease, comorbid mental illness, and other 
psychosocial factors suggest that future research identifying cost-effective or 
cost-saving treatment models may have significant health and economic 
implications.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcad.2013.03.006
PMID: 23621966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. Handb Clin Neurol. 2013;112:921-8. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-52910-7.00014-3.

Obstetrical brachial plexus palsy.

Romaña MC(1), Rogier A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Orthopaedic and Reconstructive Surgery, Pierre et 
Marie Curie University Paris, Armand Trousseau Hospital, Paris, France. 
Electronic address: claudia.romana@trs.aphp.fr.

Obstetrical brachial plexus palsy is considered to be the result of a trauma 
during the delivery, even if there remains some controversy surrounding the 
causes. Although most babies recover spontaneously in the first 3 months of 
life, a small number remains with poor recovery which requires surgical brachial 
plexus exploration. Surgical indications depend on the type of lesion (producing 
total or partial palsy) and particularly the nonrecovery of biceps function by 
the age of 3 months. In a global palsy, microsurgery will be mandatory and the 
strategy for restoration will focus first on hand reinnervation and secondarily 
on providing elbow flexion and shoulder stability. Further procedures may be 
necessary during growth in order to avoid fixed contractured deformities or to 
give or increase strength of important muscle functions like elbow flexion or 
wrist extension. The author reviews the history of obstetrical brachial plexus 
injury, epidemiology, and the specifics of descriptive and functional anatomy in 
babies and children. Clinical manifestations at birth are directly correlated 
with the anatomical lesion. Finally, operative procedures are considered, 
including strategies of reconstruction with nerve grafting in infants and 
secondary surgery to increase functional capacity at later ages. However, normal 
function is usually not recovered, particularly in total brachial plexus palsy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-52910-7.00014-3
PMID: 23622302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Handb Clin Neurol. 2013;113:1723-9. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-59565-2.00042-3.

Mucopolysaccharidoses and mucolipidoses.

Wraith JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Genetic Medicine, St. Mary's Hospital, Manchester, UK. Electronic address: 
ed.wraith@cmft.nhs.uk.

The mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS) and mucolipidoses (ML) are progressive storage 
disorders that share many clinical features varying from facial dysmorphism, 
bone dysplasia, hepatosplenomegaly, neurological abnormalities, developmental 
regression, and a reduced life expectancy at the severe end of the clinical 
spectrum to an almost normal clinical phenotype and life span in patients with 
more attenuated disease. MPS and ML are transmitted in an autosomal recessive 
manner, except for the X-linked MPS II (Hunter syndrome). Diagnosis is initially 
by detecting partially degraded GAG or oligosaccharide in urine and confirmed by 
specific enzyme assays in serum, leukocytes, or skin fibroblasts. For the 
majority of disorders treatment is palliative, but there have been important 
advances in the use of specific enzyme replacement therapy strategies for some 
MPS disorders and this is an area of very rapid development. In addition, 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) can improve outcome in carefully 
selected patients with MPS (especially MPS IH, Hurler syndrome), but this 
procedure is associated with significant risk. Gene augmentation/transfer using 
a variety of vectors has been successful in animal models but has not yet been 
successfully performed in a human patient with one of these disorders. It is 
important to remember that prenatal diagnosis is possible for all of these 
disorders.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-59565-2.00042-3
PMID: 23622395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Cancer Epidemiol. 2013 Aug;37(4):462-8. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2013.03.014.
Epub  2013 Apr 24.

Life expectancy estimates as a key factor in over-treatment: the case of 
prostate cancer.

Delpierre C(1), Lamy S, Kelly-Irving M, Molinié F, Velten M, Tretarre B, 
Woronoff AS, Buemi A, Lapôtre-Ledoux B, Bara S, Guizard AV, Colonna M, 
Grosclaude P.

Author information:
(1)Inserm, UMR1027, Toulouse F-31062, France. cyrille.delpierre@inserm.fr

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the magnitude of over-diagnosis and of potential and 
actual over-treatment regarding prostate cancer, taking comorbidities into 
account.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We used a sample collected by the French cancer 
registries of 1840 cases (T1: 583; T2: 1257) diagnosed in 2001. The proportion 
of over-diagnosed and over-treated patients was estimated by comparing life 
expectancy (LE), including or not comorbidities, with natural LE with cancer, 
using several assumptions from the literature. We distinguished potential and 
actual over-treatment according to the treatment that patients actually 
received.
RESULTS: Among patients with T1 tumors the proportion of potential 
over-treatment using LE adjusted for comorbidity varied from 29.5% to 53.5%, 
using LE adjusted on comorbidities, and varied from 9.3% to 22.2% regarding 
actual over-treatment. Between 7.7% and 24.4% of patient's receiving a radical 
prostatectomy, and between 30.8% and 62.5% of those receiving radiotherapy, were 
over-treated. Among patients with T2 tumors, the proportions of potential and 
actual over-treatment were 0.9% and 2.0%. Two per cent of patients receiving a 
radical prostatectomy and 4.9% of those receiving radiotherapy were 
over-treated. Comorbidities dramatically increased these proportions to nearly 
100% of patients, with more than two comorbidities being potentially 
over-treated and around 33% actually over-treated.
CONCLUSIONS: According to the French incidence, 3200-4800 French patients may be 
over-treated, among whom a large proportion of patients had comorbidities. The 
real issue is to offer the most appropriate treatment to people with low-grade 
tumors and comorbidities.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2013.03.014
PMID: 23623489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. J Visc Surg. 2013 Apr;150(2):97-107. doi: 10.1016/j.jviscsurg.2013.03.007.
Epub  2013 Apr 23.

Surgical treatment of extraluminal pelvic recurrence from rectal cancer: 
oncological management and resection techniques.

Pereira P(1), Ghouti L, Blanche J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Digestive Surgery, Purpan University Hospital, 1, place Baylac, 
31000 Toulouse, France. pereira31000@gmail.com

Local recurrence (LR) after curative surgery for rectal cancer occurs in 4 to 
33% of cases especially with suboptimal surgery (non-TME). For numerous 
patients, diagnosis of LR is done at late stage of the disease because of the 
high rate of asymptomatic patients. MRI and PET-scan are the most performing 
exams to assess the local and general extension, with high diagnostic accuracy 
(sensibility 85% and specificity 92%). For extraluminal pelvic recurrences from 
rectal cancer, pelvic exenterations alone or with irradiation (preoperative 
and/or intraoperative) can afford a R0 resection rate ranging from 30% to 45% 
with acceptable morbidity. Morbidity and mortality rates are high for total 
exenteration and abdominosacral resection. After curative surgery, 5-year global 
survival from 30% to 40% is observed. Careful selection of patients with better 
preoperative status before resection is needed to achieve more curative 
resections and increase long-term survivor rates.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jviscsurg.2013.03.007
PMID: 23623561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Prim Care Diabetes. 2013 Oct;7(3):235-42. doi: 10.1016/j.pcd.2013.04.001.
Epub  2013 Apr 25.

Clinical outcomes and costs for patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
initiating insulin therapy in Greece: two-year experience from the INSTIGATE 
study.

Aloumanis K(1), Benroubi M, Sourmeli S, Drossinos V.

Author information:
(1)European Medical Research Institute by Pharmaserve-Lilly, Athens, Greece. 
Electronic address: aloumanisk@hotmail.com.

AIMS: To evaluate the quality of metabolic control, clinical outcomes, resource 
costs, and quality of life among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM), 
who initiated insulin for the first time as part of routine clinical practice.
METHODS: The INSTIGATE study is a prospective, multicentric, observational study 
of patients initiating insulin treatment. This sub-cohort analysis focuses on 
Hellenic outcomes.
RESULTS: At baseline, 263 Greek patients were enrolled just before initiating 
insulin for the first time. At the 6-month visit, 237 patients (90.1%) remained 
and consented to an additional 18-month observation period. In these 237 
extension patients, over the 24-month post-initiation period, HbA1c (mean(SD)) 
decreased from 9.7%(1.6%) to 7.1%(0.9%) and body weight and BMI increased 
(+3(6)kg and +1.1(2.2)kg/m(2), respectively). At each post-baseline visit 
approximately one in five patients reported ≥1 episodes of hypoglycaemia in the 
preceding 3-6 months. Median total costs fluctuated from 438€ at baseline to 
538€ up to 6 months and 451€ at 24 months; mean costs were 496(383)€, 573(276)€ 
and 485(247)€, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort, insulin treatment seems to be effective with little 
long-term impact on cost. Findings should be interpreted in the context of an 
observational study.

Copyright © 2013 Primary Care Diabetes Europe. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcd.2013.04.001
PMID: 23623608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Int J Cardiol. 2013 Oct 3;168(3):2791-5. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2013.03.124.
Epub  2013 Apr 23.

Prospective assessment of incidence of Tako-Tsubo cardiomyopathy in a very large 
urban agglomeration.

Mansencal N(1), Auvert B, N'Guetta R, Estève JB, Zarca K, Perrot S, El Mahmoud 
R, Legeai C, Bataille S, Nallet O, Tresca JP, Cattan S, Spaulding C, Dubourg O.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Université de Versailles-Saint Quentin, Ambroise Paré 
Hospital, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de Paris, Centre de Référence des 
Maladies Cardiaques Héréditaires, Boulogne-Billancourt, France. Electronic 
address: nicolas.mansencal@apr.aphp.fr.

BACKGROUND: Tako-Tsubo cardiomyopathy (TTC) is a recently described medical 
entity and the incidence of TTC in a global population is still uncertain. We 
sought to prospectively assess the incidence of TTC in a large urban area.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We included all consecutive patients referred for coronary 
angiography in three hospitals located in Paris and its suburbs. We 
prospectively estimated the percentage of TTC among patients referred for 
coronary angiography and extrapolated the number of cases of TTC in the greater 
Paris area (11,598,866 inhabitants) according to the CARDIO-ARHIF registry 
(government agency). Among 2547 patients (2972 coronary angiographies) including 
815 acute coronary syndromes, 20 patients presented with TTC (19 women, mean age 
66 ± 13 years). The percentage of TTC among suspected acute coronary syndromes 
was 2.5% (8.2% in women versus 0.2% in men, p<0.001). In the CARDIO-ARHIF 
registry, we individualized 51,403 coronary angiographies performed in all 
catheterization laboratories in one year (13,820 women and 10,246 women ≥ 60 
years). In this region, the yearly number of TTC cases is estimated to be 346 
(95% CI: 216-520). The annual incidence of TTC is estimated to be 29.8 per 
1,000,000 inhabitants (95% CI: 18.6-44.9), 48.2 per 1,000,000 inhabitants (95% 
CI: 29.7-73.0) among women and 187.4 per 1,000,000 inhabitants (95% CI: 
103.3-307.2) among women ≥ 60 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Within a large urban agglomeration, the incidence of TTC is high in 
women ≥ 60 years. The current rate of this recently described cardiomyopathy has 
been underestimated in previous retrospective studies and will probably rise 
with the increase of life expectancy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2013.03.124
PMID: 23623669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Osteoporos Int. 2013 Jul;24(7):1991-9. doi: 10.1007/s00198-012-2237-x. Epub
2013  Apr 27.

The impact of different health dimensions on overall quality of life related to 
kyphoplasty and non-surgical management.

Borgström F(1), Olafsson G, Ström O, Tillman JB, Wardlaw D, Boonen S, 
Miltenburger C.

Author information:
(1)Quantify Research, Stockholm, Sweden. fredrik.borgstrom@quantifyresearch.com

This study uses data from a previously published randomised trial where balloon 
kyphoplasty was compared to non-surgical management. Of the improved overall 
quality of life, 60 % was caused by decreased pain. However, ignoring other 
dimensions of quality of life would underestimate the procedure's effect.
INTRODUCTION: Acute back pain has been viewed as the most important factor 
lowering quality of life (QoL) for patients suffering vertebral fractures. The 
objective of this study was to quantify the impact of different health 
dimensions on overall QoL using patient-reported outcome measurements (PROMs) 
collected in Fracture Reduction Evaluation (FREE) trial.
METHODS: The analysis was based on patients included in the 2-year-long 
randomised controlled FREE trial studying the efficacy and safety of balloon 
kyphoplasty procedure (BKP) compared to non-surgical management (NSM). The PROMs 
included were EQ-5D, Short Form (SF)-36, visual analogue scale (VAS) pain and 
the Roland-Morris Disability Questionnaire (RMDQ). The health dimensional 
contribution to the overall QoL improvements was analysed by isolating the 
impact of each dimension on QoL in the SF-36 and EQ-5D, respectively. A 
correlation analysis of the QoL improvement was performed to investigate the 
relationships between the four instruments.
RESULTS: Changes in pain explained 60 % of the quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY) gained in BKP vs. NSM followed by self-care (17 %), mobility (16 %) and 
usual activities (10 %) (EQ-5D). Health dimensions capturing the mental state 
had little impact on the QALY gained. The SF-36 dimensional analysis showed 
similar results. The correlation analysis showed that the correlation between 
VAS pain, RMDQ and QALY improvement was fairly weak.
CONCLUSIONS: Changes in the pain dimension of health are the most important 
drivers for changes of overall QoL in patients treated with BKP or NSM. However, 
ignoring the impact of other dimensions would lead to an underestimation of the 
actual improvement in overall QoL.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-012-2237-x
PMID: 23624701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Pharmacotherapy. 2013 Dec;33(12):1333-40. doi: 10.1002/phar.1269. Epub 2013
Apr  26.

The cost-effectiveness of oral direct factor Xa inhibitors compared with 
low-molecular-weight heparin for the prevention of venous thromboembolism 
prophylaxis in total hip or knee replacement surgery.

Mahmoudi M(1), Sobieraj DM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal and Preventive Medicine, School of Medicine, Griffin 
Hospital - Yale University, Derby, Connecticut; Yale School of Public Health, 
New Haven, Connecticut.

INTRODUCTION: Major orthopedic surgery is associated with a high risk of venous 
thromboembolism (VTE). Anticoagulants are recommended to prevent VTE, and 
recently an oral direct factor Xa inhibitor (FXaI) was approved for this 
indication. We compared the cost-effectiveness of FXaIs with 
low-molecular-weight heparin (LMWH) in patients undergoing total hip replacement 
(THR) or total knee replacement (TKR) surgery.
DESIGN: A decision-tree model was developed to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
oral direct FXaIs (rivaroxaban, apixaban, and edoxaban) to subcutaneous LMWHs 
(enoxaparin and dalteparin), with separate models for THR and TKR. The analysis 
was conducted over a 180-day postoperative time horizon from the U.S. Medicare 
perspective. The model was developed using TreeAge Pro 2011 (TreeAge Software 
Inc., Williamstown, MA, USA).
METHODS: Efficacy and safety data (probabilities of distal and proximal deep 
vein thrombosis, symptomatic pulmonary embolism, and major bleeding) were 
derived from a systematic review and meta-analysis of phase II and III clinical 
trials. Costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) are reported. One-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to evaluate parameter 
uncertainty.
RESULTS: In the THR model, the average costs per patient for FXaIs and LMWHs 
were $18,762 and $18,897, respectively, and the QALYs were 0.938 and 0.932. In 
the TKR model, the average cost per patient for FXaIs and LMWHs were $18,804 and 
$18,991, respectively, and the QALYs were 0.935 and 0.931. In both models, FXaIs 
dominated LMWH (less costly and more efficacious). Neither model was sensitive 
to changes in any of the variables in the one-way sensitivity analyses. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that FXaIs were cost-effective in 
more than 99% of iterations in the THR population and in 98% of iterations in 
the TKR population assuming a willingness-to-pay threshold of $50,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Oral direct FXaIs may be an economically dominant strategy compared 
with LMWHs for VTE prophylaxis in patients undergoing either THR or TKR surgery.

© 2013 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/phar.1269
PMID: 23625693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Z Orthop Unfall. 2013 Apr;151(2):e1-9; quiz e10. doi:
10.1055/s-0032-1328464.  Epub 2013 Apr 26.

[Treatment strategies for spinal metastases].

[Article in German]

Krepler P(1), Windhager R.

Author information:
(1)Medizinische Universität Wien, Universitätsklinik für Orthopädie. 
petra.krepler@meduniwien.ac.at

Spinal metastases occur in 10 % of all carcinoma patients in the course of their 
oncologic disease. Spinal metastasis is a manifestation of a systemic oncologic 
disease. The treatment of the metastasis does not influence the overall 
oncological outcome. Treatment decision is depending from the primary tumor, 
presence of neurological symptoms, stability of the spine, extent of visceral 
and osseous dissemination, general state of the patient and his life expectancy. 
Therapy should focus on the patient's needs and be correlated with the 
expectations and prognosis of the patient. There exist a number of valid 
prognostic scores to support and objectify the decision. There has been a change 
of paradigmata with regard to surgical treatment, supported by an improvement in 
oncosurgical and anesthesiological fields. Surgery is indicated in case of 
instability or neurological compromise, in respect of the general state and life 
expectancy and can be performed from a ventral, dorsal or combined approach. 
Alternative or complimentary treatment methods are radiotherapy, chemotherapy, 
hormonotherapy, stereotactic radiosurgery and additive therapies like sequential 
embolization, antiresorptive medication or corticoid therapy. Therapy should be 
established by a multidisciplinary tumor board. Main issue for treatment 
decisions is palliation and optimizing the patient's quality of life.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1328464
PMID: 23625784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Ann Pediatr Cardiol. 2013 Jan;6(1):46-51. doi: 10.4103/0974-2069.107234.

Pacing in children.

Singh HR(1), Batra AS, Balaji S.

Author information:
(1)The Carman and Ann Adams Department of Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric 
Cardiology, Children's Hospital of Michigan, Detroit, MI, USA.

The implantation of cardiac pacing devices in children and young adults can be 
challenging and different from the adult population due to their smaller size, 
their longer life expectancy, and anatomical variations associated with 
congenital heart defects. A knowledge of indications, pacing leads and devices, 
anatomical variations, and the technical skills are important for those who 
implant and care for children with pacemakers. In this review we attempt to 
discuss these specific points of cardiac pacing in children and young adults.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-2069.107234
PMCID: PMC3634247
PMID: 23626436

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


918. Clin Interv Aging. 2013;8:433-42. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S30765. Epub 2013 Apr 19.

Optimal management of renal cell carcinoma in the elderly: a review.

Quivy A(1), Daste A, Harbaoui A, Duc S, Bernhard JC, Gross-Goupil M, Ravaud A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Hôpital Saint-André, Bordeaux University 
Hospital, Bordeaux, France.

Both the aging population and the incidence of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) are 
growing, making the question of tumor management in the elderly a real 
challenge. Doctors should be aware of the importance of assessing this specific 
subpopulation. An aggressive therapeutic approach may be balanced by the benefit 
of the treatment - care or cure - and the life expectancy and willingness of the 
patient. The treatment for local disease can be surgery (radical or partial 
nephrectomy) or ablative therapies (radiofrequency, cryotherapy). Even if in 
most cases surgery is safe, complications such as alteration of renal function 
may occur, especially in the elderly, with physiological renal impairment at 
baseline. More recently, another option has been developed as an alternative: 
active surveillance. In the past decade, new drugs have been approved in the 
metastatic setting. All the phase 3 trials have included patients without a 
limit on age. Nevertheless, data concerning the elderly are still poor and 
concern only a very selective subpopulation. The toxicity profile of targeted 
agents may interfere with pre-existent comorbidities. Furthermore, the 
metabolism of several agents via cytochrome P450 can cause drug interaction. The 
importance of quality of life is a major factor with regard to management of 
therapy. Finally, to date, there is no recommendation of systematic a priori 
dose reduction in the elderly. In this review we describe the various 
possibilities of treatment for localized RCC or metastatic RCC in an aging 
population.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S30765
PMCID: PMC3632583
PMID: 23626463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. J Dev Orig Health Dis. 2012 Oct;3(5):380-6. doi: 10.1017/S2040174412000281.

Early cohort mortality predicts the rate of aging in the cohort: a historical 
analysis.

Beltrán-Sáncheza H, Crimmins E, Finch C.

Early environmental influences on later-life health and mortality are well 
recognized in the doubling of life expectancy since 1800. To further define 
these relationships, we analyzed the associations between early-life mortality 
and both the estimated mortality level at age 40 and the exponential 
acceleration in mortality rates with age characterized by the Gompertz model. 
Using mortality data from 630 cohorts born throughout the 19th and early 20th 
century in nine European countries, we developed a multilevel model that 
accounts for cohort and period effects in later-life mortality. We show that 
early-life mortality, which is linked to exposure to infection and poor 
nutrition, predicts both the estimated cohort mortality level at age 40 and the 
subsequent Gompertz rate of mortality acceleration during aging. After 
controlling for effects of country and period, the model accounts for the 
majority of variance in the Gompertz parameters (about 90% of variation in the 
estimated level of mortality at age 40 and about 78% of variation in the 
Gompertz slope). The gains in cohort survival to older ages are entirely due to 
large declines in adult mortality level, because the rates of mortality 
acceleration at older ages became faster. These findings apply to cohorts born 
in both the 19th century and the early 20th century. This analysis defines new 
links in the developmental origins of adult health and disease in which effects 
of early-life circumstances, such as exposure to infections or poor nutrition, 
persist into mid-adulthood and remain evident in the cohort mortality rates from 
ages 40 to 90.

DOI: 10.1017/S2040174412000281
PMCID: PMC3635829
PMID: 23626899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Statement of interest: Competing interest 
declaration: None


920. Int J Prosthodont. 2013 May-Jun;26(3):218-26. doi: 10.11607/ijp.3406.

Understanding Kaplan-Meier and survival statistics.

Layton DM(1).

Author information:
(1)laytonpros@dipros.com.au

PURPOSE: This paper aims to explore the mathematics of Kaplan-Meier and survival 
statistics, explain how the mathematics are relevant for prosthodontic treatment 
planning, and provide advice for future presentation of such data.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The mathematics of the Kaplan-Meier and related survival 
statistic formulas were explored with hypothetical data consisting of 100 
prostheses, reviewed yearly for 10 years. The hypothetical impact of failures (n 
= 1, 2, 9, or 0) and censored data (n = 5, 9, or 10) were reviewed across three 
life tables and survival curves. Actual published data of 304 porcelain veneers, 
reviewed regularly for 16 years, were similarly utilized. The impact of changing 
the number of failures and censored data on the estimated cumulative survival 
(ECS) and the standard error (SE) was reviewed across two life tables and 
survival curves.
RESULTS: The ECS and SE are calculated from two data figures: the number of 
failures that occurred during an interval and the number of prostheses at risk 
during that same interval. The ECS reduces and its SE enlarges when prostheses 
fail. These results can also change if prostheses are lost from the study 
(censored). However, the number of failures is in the numerator of the equation. 
Therefore, if no failures occur, loss of prostheses from the study cannot change 
the ECS or the SE. This can dramatically affect the calculated ECS and SE if a 
prosthesis becomes lost to follow-up rather than presenting as a failure. The 
hypothetical and actual data were used to explore these concepts.
CONCLUSION: Current techniques for analysis of time-to-event data are imperfect 
and can be misleading. It therefore behooves authors to strive to improve 
reporting transparency, journals to support such industry, and readers to remain 
mindful that the cumulative survival is an estimate, ie, a reflection of 
reality.

DOI: 10.11607/ijp.3406
PMID: 23626973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. Crit Rev Food Sci Nutr. 2013;53(6):615-30. doi:
10.1080/10408398.2010.550071.

Bioactive natural constituents from food sources-potential use in hypertension 
prevention and treatment.

Huang WY(1), Davidge ST, Wu J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Functional Food and Bioactive compounds, Institute of Agro-food 
Science and Technology, Jiangsu Academy of Agricultural Sciences, PR China.

Prevention and management of hypertension are the major public health challenges 
worldwide. Uncontrolled high blood pressure may lead to a shortened life 
expectancy and a higher morbidity due to a high risk of cardiovascular 
complications such as coronary heart disease (which leads to heart attack) and 
stroke, congestive heart failure, heart rhythm irregularities, and kidney 
failure etc. In recent years, it has been recognized that many dietary 
constituents may contribute to human cardiovascular health. There has been an 
increased focus on identifying these natural components of foods, describing 
their physiological activities and mechanisms of actions. Grain, vegetables, 
fruits, milk, cheese, meat, chicken, egg, fish, soybean, tea, wine, mushrooms, 
and lactic acid bacteria are various food sources with potential 
antihypertensive effects. Their main bioactive constituents include angiotensin 
I-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitory peptides, vitamins C and E, flavonoids, 
flavanols, cathecins, anthocyanins, phenolic acids, polyphenols, tannins, 
resveratrol, polysaccharides, fiber, saponin, sterols, as well as K, Ca, and P. 
They may reduce blood pressure by different mechanisms, such as ACE inhibition 
effect, antioxidant, vasodilatory, opiate-like, Ca(2+) channel blocking, and 
chymase inhibitory activities. These functional foods may provide new 
therapeutic applications for hypertension prevention and treatment, and 
contribute to a healthy cardiovascular population. The present review summarizes 
the antihypertensive food sources and their bioactive constituents, as well as 
physiological mechanisms of dietary products, especially focusing on ACE 
inhibitory activity.

DOI: 10.1080/10408398.2010.550071
PMID: 23627503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Zhongguo Shi Yan Xue Ye Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Apr;21(2):484-8. doi: 
10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2013.02.048.

[Current understanding of iron overload hazard in patients with myelodysplastic 
syndrome].

[Article in Chinese]

Song LX(1), Su JY, Zhang Z, Chang CK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Shanghai Jiaotong University, Shanghai, China.

Patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) become dependent on blood 
transfusions and develop into transfusional iron overload, which is exacerbated 
by increased absorption of dietary iron in response to ineffective 
erythropoiesis. However, it is uncertain whether there is an association among 
iron accumulation, clinical complications, and decreased likelihood of survival 
in MDS patients. Thereby our current understanding of the effects of transfusion 
dependency and iron overload in MDS are discussed. Particular emphasis should be 
placed on further characterizing the role of redox-active forms of labile iron 
and oxidative stress in iron overload, decreased life expectancy and increased 
risk of leukemic transformation in MDS patients with iron overload.

DOI: 10.7534/j.issn.1009-2137.2013.02.048
PMID: 23628060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Health Syst Transit. 2013;15(1):1-179.

Canada: Health system review.

Marchildon G(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Regina, Canada.

Canada is a high-income country with a population of 33 million people. Its 
economic performance has been solid despite the recession that began in 2008. 
Life expectancy in Canada continues to rise and is high compared with most OECD 
countries; however, infant and maternal mortality rates tend to be worse than in 
countries such as Australia, France and Sweden. About 70% of total health 
expenditure comes from the general tax revenues of the federal, provincial and 
territorial governments. Most public revenues for health are used to provide 
universal medicare (medically necessary hospital and physician services that are 
free at the point of service for residents) and to subsidise the costs of 
outpatient prescription drugs and long-term care. Health care costs continue to 
grow at a faster rate than the economy and government revenue, largely driven by 
spending on prescription drugs. In the last five years, however, growth rates in 
pharmaceutical spending have been matched by hospital spending and overtaken by 
physician spending, mainly due to increased provider remuneration. The 
governance, organization and delivery of health services is highly 
decentralized, with the provinces and territories responsible for administering 
medicare and planning health services. In the last ten years there have been no 
major pan-Canadian health reform initiatives but individual provinces and 
territories have focused on reorganizing or fine tuning their regional health 
systems and improving the quality, timeliness and patient experience of primary, 
acute and chronic care. The medicare system has been effective in providing 
Canadians with financial protection against hospital and physician costs. 
However, the narrow scope of services covered under medicare has produced 
important gaps in coverage and equitable access may be a challenge in these 
areas.

World Health Organization 2013 (acting as the host organization for, and 
secretariat of, the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies).

PMID: 23628429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2013 May;131(5):953-961. doi:
10.1097/PRS.0b013e3182865a24.

A comparison of acellular dermal matrix to autologous dermal flaps in 
single-stage, implant-based immediate breast reconstruction: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Krishnan NM(1), Chatterjee A, Van Vliet MM, Powell SG, Rosen JM, Nigriny JF.

Author information:
(1)Hanover and Lebanon, N.H. From the Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, 
Division of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical 
Center, and the Tuck School of Business at Dartmouth.

BACKGROUND: The use of acellular dermal matrix has allowed for single-stage 
immediate breast reconstruction after mastectomy at a significantly decreased 
cost compared with two-stage expander/implant reconstruction. The use of a 
pedicled autologous dermal flap in the same fashion as acellular dermal matrix 
in women with larger, ptotic breasts has also allowed for single-stage immediate 
breast reconstruction with similarly low complication rates and without the 
added procedural cost of using acellular dermal matrix. There have been no prior 
studies evaluating whether the added procedural cost for acellular dermal matrix 
is cost-effective relative to using an autologous dermal flap in single-stage 
immediate breast reconstruction following mastectomy.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature review was conducted to identify published 
complication rates for single-stage, implant-based immediate breast 
reconstruction using either acellular dermal matrix or an autologous dermal 
flap. The probabilities of the most common complications were combined with 
Medicare Current Procedural Terminology reimbursement codes and expert utility 
estimates to fit into a decision model to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
acellular dermal matrix.
RESULTS: : The decision model revealed a baseline cost difference of $261.72 and 
a 0.001 increase in the quality-adjusted life years when using acellular dermal 
matrix, yielding an incremental cost-utility ratio of $261,720 per 
quality-adjusted life year. Sensitivity analysis showed that acellular dermal 
matrix was not cost-effective when the complication rate for autologous dermal 
flaps was below 20 percent.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors' study demonstrates that acellular dermal matrix is not 
a cost-effective technology in patients who can have an autologous dermal flap 
in single-stage immediate breast reconstruction.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0b013e3182865a24
PMID: 23629077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2013 Sep;9(9):513-21. doi: 10.1038/nrendo.2013.86. Epub
2013  Apr 30.

Circulating microRNAs as novel biomarkers for diabetes mellitus.

Guay C(1), Regazzi R.

Author information:
(1)University of Lausanne, Department of Fundamental Neurosciences, Rue du 
Bugnon 9, 1005 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Diabetes mellitus is characterized by insulin secretion from pancreatic β cells 
that is insufficient to maintain blood glucose homeostasis. Autoimmune 
destruction of β cells results in type 1 diabetes mellitus, whereas conditions 
that reduce insulin sensitivity and negatively affect β-cell activities result 
in type 2 diabetes mellitus. Without proper management, patients with diabetes 
mellitus develop serious complications that reduce their quality of life and 
life expectancy. Biomarkers for early detection of the disease and 
identification of individuals at risk of developing complications would greatly 
improve the care of these patients. Small non-coding RNAs called microRNAs 
(miRNAs) control gene expression and participate in many physiopathological 
processes. Hundreds of miRNAs are actively or passively released in the 
circulation and can be used to evaluate health status and disease progression. 
Both type 1 diabetes mellitus and type 2 diabetes mellitus are associated with 
distinct modifications in the profile of miRNAs in the blood, which are 
sometimes detectable several years before the disease manifests. Moreover, 
circulating levels of certain miRNAs seem to be predictive of long-term 
complications. Technical and scientific obstacles still exist that need to be 
overcome, but circulating miRNAs might soon become part of the diagnostic 
arsenal to identify individuals at risk of developing diabetes mellitus and its 
devastating complications.

DOI: 10.1038/nrendo.2013.86
PMID: 23629540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Med Decis Making. 2013 Aug;33(6):793-803. doi: 10.1177/0272989X13482524.
Epub  2013 Apr 29.

US valuation of the SF-6D.

Craig BM(1)(2), Pickard AS(3), Stolk E(4), Brazier JE(5).

Author information:
(1)Health Outcomes & Behavior Program, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, Florida 
(BMC)
(2)Department of Economics, University of South Florida, Tampa, Florida (BMC)
(3)Center for Pharmacoeconomic Research and Department of Pharmacy Practice, 
University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, Illinois (ASP)
(4)Department of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands (ES)
(5)Health Economics, Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and 
Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK (JEB)

BACKGROUND: The original SF-6D valuation study collected 3503 standard gambled 
responses from 611 UK respondents to predict quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
values.
METHODS: Using 19,980 paired comparison responses from 666 US respondents and a 
stacked probit model, the 25 coefficients of the original SF-6D multiattribute 
utility (MAU) regression were estimated, such that each coefficient represents a 
QALY decrement. The US QALY predictions were compared with UK predictions using 
8428 SF-6D states in the US Medicare Health Outcomes Survey (MHOS), 1998 to 
2003.
RESULTS: Twenty-two of the 25 decrements in the SF-6D MAU regression are 
statistically significant. The remaining decrements are insignificant based on 
US and UK results. The US and UK QALY predictions for the MHOS SF-6D states are 
remarkably similar given differences in experimental design, format, and 
sampling (Lin's coefficient of agreement, 0.941; absolute mean difference, 
0.043). Limitations. The underlying theoretical framework for the
STUDY DESIGN: and econometric analysis builds from the episodic random utility 
model and the concept of QALYs and inherits their limitations.
CONCLUSIONS: This study enhances the potential for US comparative effectiveness 
research by translating SF-6D states into US QALYs as well as improves upon 
discrete choice experiment design and econometric methods for health valuation.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X13482524
PMCID: PMC3740344
PMID: 23629865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 May 14;110(20):8045-50. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1217029110. Epub 2013 Apr 29.

A model comparison approach shows stronger support for economic models of 
fertility decline.

Shenk MK(1), Towner MC, Kress HC, Alam N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211-1440, 
USA. shenkm@missouri.edu

The demographic transition is an ongoing global phenomenon in which high 
fertility and mortality rates are replaced by low fertility and mortality. 
Despite intense interest in the causes of the transition, especially with 
respect to decreasing fertility rates, the underlying mechanisms motivating it 
are still subject to much debate. The literature is crowded with competing 
theories, including causal models that emphasize (i) mortality and extrinsic 
risk, (ii) the economic costs and benefits of investing in self and children, 
and (iii) the cultural transmission of low-fertility social norms. 
Distinguishing between models, however, requires more comprehensive, 
better-controlled studies than have been published to date. We use detailed 
demographic data from recent fieldwork to determine which models produce the 
most robust explanation of the rapid, recent demographic transition in rural 
Bangladesh. To rigorously compare models, we use an evidence-based statistical 
approach using model selection techniques derived from likelihood theory. This 
approach allows us to quantify the relative evidence the data give to 
alternative models, even when model predictions are not mutually exclusive. 
Results indicate that fertility, measured as either total fertility or surviving 
children, is best explained by models emphasizing economic factors and related 
motivations for parental investment. Our results also suggest important 
synergies between models, implicating multiple causal pathways in the rapidity 
and degree of recent demographic transitions.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1217029110
PMCID: PMC3657819
PMID: 23630293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


928. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2013 May;61(5):707-14. doi: 10.1111/jgs.12213. Epub 2013
Apr  30.

Comparison of cost-effectiveness of vitamin D screening with that of universal 
supplementation in preventing falls in community-dwelling older adults.

Lee RH(1), Weber T, Colón-Emeric C.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism, and Nutrition, Duke University Medical 
Center, Durham, North Carolina 27710, USA. r.lee@duke.edu

OBJECTIVES: To compare the cost-effectiveness of population screening for 
vitamin D insufficiency with that of universal vitamin D supplementation in 
community-dwelling older adults.
DESIGN: A Markov decision model simulating follow-up over a 36-month period. 
Published data were used to estimate values for the model, including costs 
(measured in 2011 U.S. dollars), utilities (measured in quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs)), and probabilities.
SETTING: Decision analysis simulation from a societal perspective.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohort of community-dwelling women and men aged 65 to 
80.
MEASUREMENTS: Net monetary benefit (NMB) was calculated by subtracting the 
incremental cost of the strategy from the product of incremental QALYs and 
willingness-to-pay threshold. A higher NMB indicates greater cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: In women aged 65 to 80, population screening was slightly more 
cost-effective than universal supplementation, with an incremental NMB of $224 
compared with $189 (P < .001). Population screening in men was also more 
cost-effective than universal supplementation (incremental NMB $298 vs $260, P < 
.001). Results differed according to age group. In those aged 65, population 
screening had cost-effectiveness similar to that of universal supplementation in 
women ($59 vs $71) and men ($114 vs $120), whereas in those aged 80, population 
screening was substantially more cost-effective than universal supplementation 
in women ($563 vs $428) and men ($703 vs $571).
CONCLUSION: Population screening and universal supplementation for vitamin D 
insufficiency are cost-effective strategies in community-dwelling older women 
and men. In the oldest old, population screening may be more cost-effective than 
universal supplementation.

© 2013, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2013, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.12213
PMCID: PMC3656128
PMID: 23631393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Am J Cardiol. 2013 Aug 1;112(3):355-62. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2013.03.036.
Epub  2013 Apr 27.

Cost-effectiveness of universal and platelet reactivity assay-driven 
antiplatelet therapy in acute coronary syndrome.

Coleman CI(1), Limone BL.

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut School of Pharmacy, Storrs, CT, USA. 
ccolema@harthosp.org

Assays monitoring P2Y12 platelet reactivity can accurately predict which 
patients will have a poor response to clopidogrel. We sought to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of using platelet reactivity assays (PRAs) to select a 
dual-antiplatelet regimen for patients with acute coronary syndrome. A hybrid 
decision tree Markov model was developed to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
universal clopidogrel, ticagrelor, or prasugrel (given to all patients) or 
PRA-driven ticagrelor or prasugrel (given to patients with high platelet 
reactivity, defined as >230 on the VerifyNow P2Y12 assay; the others received 
generic clopidogrel). We assumed a cohort of 65-year-old patients with acute 
coronary syndrome and an incidence of high platelet reactivity of 32% and 13% at 
~24 to 48 hours after revascularization and 1 month, respectively. The 5-year 
costs, quality-adjusted life-years, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
were calculated for PRA-driven ticagrelor and prasugrel compared with universal 
clopidogrel, ticagrelor, or prasugrel. PRA-driven ticagrelor and prasugrel were 
cost-effective compared with universal clopidogrel (incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio $40,100 and $49,143/quality-adjusted life-year, 
respectively); however, universal ticagrelor and prasugrel were not (incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio $61,651 and $96,261/quality-adjusted life-year, 
respectively). Monte Carlo simulation suggested PRA-driven ticagrelor, 
PRA-driven prasugrel, universal ticagrelor, and universal prasugrel would have 
an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio <$50,000/quality-adjusted life-year in 
52%, 40%, 23%, and 2% of the iterations compared with universal clopidogrel, 
respectively. Universal ticagrelor and prasugrel were not cost-effective 
compared with their respective PRA-driven regimens (incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio $68,182; $116,875/quality-adjusted life-year, 
respectively). Monte Carlo simulation suggested universal ticagrelor and 
prasugrel would have an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
<$50,000/quality-adjusted life-year in 26% and 4% of iterations compared with 
their respective PRA-driven regimens. The results were most sensitive to 
differences in agent costs and drug-specific relative risks of death. In 
conclusion, even with generic clopidogrel, PRA-driven selection of antiplatelet 
therapy appeared to be a cost-effective strategy with the potential to decrease 
the overall acute coronary syndrome-associated healthcare costs.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2013.03.036
PMID: 23631863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Neurobiol Dis. 2013 Aug;56:116-30. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2013.04.010. Epub 2013
Apr  28.

Alzheimer's disease biomarkers: correspondence between human studies and animal 
models.

Sabbagh JJ(1), Kinney JW, Cummings JL.

Author information:
(1)Behavioral Neuroscience Laboratory, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, NV, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) represents an escalating global threat as life 
expectancy and disease prevalence continue to increase. There is a considerable 
need for earlier diagnoses to improve clinical outcomes. Fluid biomarkers 
measured from cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) and blood, or imaging biomarkers have 
considerable potential to assist in the diagnosis and management of AD. An 
additional important utility of biomarkers is in novel therapeutic development 
and clinical trials to assess efficacy and side effects of therapeutic 
interventions. Because many biomarkers are initially examined in animal models, 
the extent to which markers translate from animals to humans is an important 
issue. The current review highlights many existing and pipeline biomarker 
approaches, focusing on the degree of correspondence between AD patients and 
animal models. The review also highlights the need for greater translational 
correspondence between human and animal biomarkers.

