
DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0478-z
PMID: 23615954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Urologe A. 2013 Jun;52(6):777-84. doi: 10.1007/s00120-013-3177-6.

[Ageing, medical progress and the growth of healthcare expenditure].

[Article in German]

Breyer F(1).

Author information:
(1)Fachbereich Wirtschaftswissenschaften, Universität Konstanz, Postfach 143, 
78457 Konstanz, Deutschland. Friedrich.Breyer@uni-konstanz.de

As healthcare expenditure typically rises during a person's lifetime, there are 
widespread fears that the ageing of the German population together with 
technical progress in medicine will be a serious threat to future healthcare 
financing. The relationship between ageing and growth of healthcare expenditure 
has been intensively studied over the past 15 years both theoretically and 
empirically. In this article it will be demonstrated that the highest 
expenditure is not due to age per se but rather to proximity to death. However, 
even taking this effect into account simulations show that the increase in life 
expectancy as well as medical progress will contribute to the growth of per 
capita expenditure in the German healthcare insurance system.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-013-3177-6
PMID: 23616171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. BMJ Case Rep. 2013 Apr 23;2013:bcr2013009532. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2013-009532.

Tumour lysis syndrome in a patient with intravascular spread from a recurrent 
epithelial ovarian cancer.

Camarata M(1), Davies R, Copley S, Blagden S.

Author information:
(1)Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, London, UK.

Tumour lysis syndrome is a potentially life-threatening oncological emergency 
most commonly encountered in patients with rapidly proliferating, 
treatment-responsive haematological malignancies. It is rarely observed in solid 
tumours and, to our knowledge, this is the first time that it has been reported 
in a cancer with an intravascular tumour extension. In this report, we describe 
a case of a woman who presented with recurrent ovarian cancer and was found to 
have tumour invading into her vasculature. The patient subsequently developed 
tumour lysis syndrome after receiving chemotherapy. The case highlights the 
importance of considering tumour lysis syndrome prophylaxis when treating 
patients with intravascular involvement from a solid malignancy even if, as in 
this case, it is a recurrent tumour. Included is a brief review of the 
literature. We propose that 'intravascular tumour invasion is recognised as an 
important risk factor for the development of tumour lysis syndrome.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2013-009532
PMCID: PMC3645192
PMID: 23616333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. J Neurosci. 2013 Apr 24;33(17):7368-83. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5746-12.2013.

Modeling transformations of neurodevelopmental sequences across mammalian 
species.

Workman AD(1), Charvet CJ, Clancy B, Darlington RB, Finlay BL.

Author information:
(1)Behavioral and Evolutionary Neuroscience Group, Cornell University, Ithaca, 
New York 14853, USA.

A general model of neural development is derived to fit 18 mammalian species, 
including humans, macaques, several rodent species, and six metatherian 
(marsupial) mammals. The goal of this work is to describe heterochronic changes 
in brain evolution within its basic developmental allometry, and provide an 
empirical basis to recognize equivalent maturational states across animals. The 
empirical data generating the model comprises 271 developmental events, 
including measures of initial neurogenesis, axon extension, establishment, and 
refinement of connectivity, as well as later events such as myelin formation, 
growth of brain volume, and early behavioral milestones, to the third year of 
human postnatal life. The progress of neural events across species is 
sufficiently predictable that a single model can be used to predict the timing 
of all events in all species, with a correlation of modeled values to empirical 
data of 0.9929. Each species' rate of progress through the event scale, 
described by a regression equation predicting duration of development in days, 
is highly correlated with adult brain size. Neural heterochrony can be seen in 
selective delay of retinogenesis in the cat, associated with greater numbers of 
rods in its retina, and delay of corticogenesis in all species but rodents and 
the rabbit, associated with relatively larger cortices in species with delay. 
Unexpectedly, precocial mammals (those unusually mature at birth) delay the 
onset of first neurogenesis but then progress rapidly through remaining 
developmental events.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.5746-12.2013
PMCID: PMC3928428
PMID: 23616543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Appl Clin Inform. 2011 Aug 17;2(3):331-44. doi: 10.4338/ACI-2011-02-RA-0014.
 Print 2011.

TRIAD: The Translational Research Informatics and Data Management Grid.

Payne P(1), Ervin D, Dhaval R, Borlawsky T, Lai A.

Author information:
(1)The Ohio State University, Department of Biomedical Informatics, Center for 
IT Innovations in Healthcare, and Center for Clinical and Translational Science 
, Columbus, OH.

OBJECTIVE: Multi-disciplinary and multi-site biomedical research programs 
frequently require infrastructures capable of enabling the collection, 
management, analysis, and dissemination of heterogeneous, multi-dimensional, and 
distributed data and knowledge collections spanning organizational boundaries. 
We report on the design and initial deployment of an extensible biomedical 
informatics platform that is intended to address such requirements.
METHODS: A common approach to distributed data, information, and knowledge 
management needs in the healthcare and life science settings is the deployment 
and use of a service-oriented architecture (SOA). Such SOA technologies provide 
for strongly-typed, semantically annotated, and stateful data and analytical 
services that can be combined into data and knowledge integration and analysis 
"pipelines." Using this overall design pattern, we have implemented and 
evaluated an extensible SOA platform for clinical and translational science 
applications known as the Translational Research Informatics and Data-management 
grid (TRIAD). TRIAD is a derivative and extension of the caGrid middleware and 
has an emphasis on supporting agile "working interoperability" between data, 
information, and knowledge resources.
RESULTS: Based upon initial verification and validation studies conducted in the 
context of a collection of driving clinical and translational research problems, 
we have been able to demonstrate that TRIAD achieves agile "working 
interoperability" between distributed data and knowledge sources.
CONCLUSION: Informed by our initial verification and validation studies, we 
believe TRIAD provides an example instance of a lightweight and readily 
adoptable approach to the use of SOA technologies in the clinical and 
translational research setting. Furthermore, our initial use cases illustrate 
the importance and efficacy of enabling "working interoperability" in 
heterogeneous biomedical environments.

DOI: 10.4338/ACI-2011-02-RA-0014
PMCID: PMC3631927
PMID: 23616879


886. J Genet Syndr Gene Ther. 2013 Feb 9;4(123):1000123. doi: 
10.4172/2157-7412.1000123.

Low and Normal IGF-1 Levels in Patients with Chronic Medical Disorders (CMD) is 
Independent of Anterior Pituitary Hormone Deficiencies: Implications for 
Treating IGF-1 Abnormal Deficiencies with CMD.

Braverman E(1), Oscar-Berman M, Lohmann R, Kennedy R, Kerner M, Dushaj K, Blum 
K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida 
College of Medicine, Gainesville, Florida, 32610, USA ; Department of Clinical 
Neurology, Path Foundation NY, 10010, USA.

Over time, based on evidence-based medicine, a number of hormonal test levels 
including IGF-1 had been raised or lowered to meet new criteria standards. In 
particular, IGF-1 plasma levels have been shown in several studies to be an 
independent diagnostic tool in Adult Growth Hormone Deficiency (AGHD). Many 
endocrinology studies link low IGF-1 plasma levels with low levels of other 
anterior pituitary hormones (i.e., LH, FSH, and TSH). Low IGF-1 is considered by 
most to be between 84-100 µ/l and numerous studies recommend that raising IGF-1 
to high normal range reverses Chronic Medical Diseases (CMD), improves bone 
mineral density (BMD), and fibromyalgia. Moreover, some studies suggest that low 
levels of IGF-1 by itself independent of anterior pituitary deficiencies is 
sufficient to determine AGHD in humans. In order to determine the relationship 
of low IGF-1 with that of LH, FSH, and TSH levels in subjects with CMD, we 
evaluated these levels (± SD) in 944 patients. Patients with IGF-1 below 84 µ/l, 
100 µ/l, and 150 µ/l were accessed. 9.22% had less than 84 µ/l (SD ± 12.52); 
19.9% had less than 100 µ/l (SD ± 9.54); and 51.6 had less than 150 µ/l (SD ± 
26.0). Specifically, the percentages found for low LH, FSH, and TSH were only 
4.2%, 4.8%, and 6.5%. We conclude that IGF-1 deficiencies occur independent of 
comorbid deficiencies of LH, FSH, and TSH. Finally, we propose that based on the 
present investigation, IGF-1 low levels between the range of 84-100 µ/l may be 
too low to be considered as an independent diagnostic marker to treat AGHD with 
CMD.

DOI: 10.4172/2157-7412.1000123
PMCID: PMC3632344
PMID: 23616929

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors report no 
conflict of interest and approved this manuscript with equal contribution. The 
authors are appreciative for the funding support of Life-Extension Foundation.


887. Nihon Geka Gakkai Zasshi. 2013 Mar;114(2):112-3.

[What we can learn from a case of medical malpractice--patient partially, 
compensated for potentially diminished life expectancy caused by the physician's 
violation of fiduciary duty to warn and explain the results of the hepatitis C 
virus test to the patient].

[Article in Japanese]

Kajitani A(1), Asada M, Kuwabara H, Kawasaki S, Kobayashi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hospital Managemant, Juntendo University School of Medicine, 
Tokyo, Japan.

PMID: 23617194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2013 May;200(5):1020-7. doi: 10.2214/AJR.12.8968.

Microsimulation model predicts survival benefit of radiofrequency ablation and 
stereotactic body radiotherapy versus radiotherapy for treating inoperable stage 
I non-small cell lung cancer.

Tramontano AC(1), Cipriano LE, Kong CY, Shepard JA, Lanuti M, Gazelle GS, 
McMahon PM.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Technology Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
MA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: A subset of patients with stage IA and IB non-small cell lung cancer 
(NSCLC) is ineligible for surgical resection and undergoes radiation therapy. 
Radiofrequency ablation (RFA) and stereotactic body radiotherapy are newer 
potentially attractive alternative therapies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We added RFA and stereotactic body radiotherapy treatment 
modules to a microsimulation model that simulates lung cancer's natural history, 
detection, and treatment. Natural history parameters were previously estimated 
via calibration against tumor registry data and cohort studies; the model was 
validated with screening study and cohort data. RFA model parameters were 
calibrated against 2-year survival from the Radiofrequency Ablation of Pulmonary 
Tumor Response Evaluation (RAPTURE) study, and stereotactic body radiotherapy 
model parameters were calibrated against 3-year survival from a phase 2 
prospective trial. We simulated lifetime histories of identical patients with 
early-stage NSCLC who were ineligible for resection, who were treated with 
radiation therapy, RFA, or stereotactic body radiotherapy under a range of 
scenarios. From 5,000,000 simulated individuals, we selected a cohort of 
patients with stage I medically inoperable cancer for analysis (n = 2056 per 
treatment scenario). Main outcomes were life expectancy gains.
RESULTS: RFA or stereotactic body radiotherapy treatment in patients with 
peripheral stage IA or IB NSCLC who were nonoperative candidates resulted in 
life expectancy gains of 1.71 and 1.46 life-years, respectively, compared with 
universal radiation therapy. A strategy where patients with central tumors 
underwent stereotactic body radiotherapy and those with peripheral tumors 
underwent RFA resulted in a gain of 2.02 life-years compared with universal 
radiation therapy. Findings were robust with respect to changes in model 
parameters.
CONCLUSION: Microsimulation modeling results suggest that RFA and stereotactic 
body radiotherapy could provide life expectancy gains to patients with stage IA 
or IB NSCLC who are ineligible for resection.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.12.8968
PMCID: PMC3722903
PMID: 23617484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None of the other authors has any conflicts of 
interest.


889. Aging Male. 2013 Dec;16(4):159-63. doi: 10.3109/13685538.2013.789014. Epub
2013  Apr 25.

Oral diagnostics: an integral component to geriatric health care.

Kishore M(1), Panat SR, Choudhary A, Aggarwal A, Upadhyay N, Agarwal N, Alok A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, Institute of Dental Sciences , 
Bareilly, UP , India.

Aging is inevitable, every day we live we age. The mouth is referred to as a 
mirror of overall health, reinforcing that oral health is an integral part of 
general health. Oral health reflects overall well being for the elderly 
population. Compromised oral health may be a risk factor for systemic diseases 
commonly occurring in age. Diagnosis and proper treatment is essential for 
healthy aging. Timely diagnosis, appropriate treatment and regular follow-up of 
both oral and systemic diseases are a prerequisite for active aging. Oral 
diagnostics is a revolutionary development with high potential to replace other 
investigative modalities. Changing demographics, including the increase in life 
expectancy and the growing numbers of elderly, has focused attention on the need 
for dental research activities to be expanded for geriatric dentistry. This 
paper is aimed to shed light on the growing elderly population and their 
ailments. It also aims to create awareness among health care providers about 
oral diagnostics and their application in geriatrics.

DOI: 10.3109/13685538.2013.789014
PMID: 23617577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Can J Public Health. 2012 Jul 18;103(5):e342-7. doi: 10.1007/BF03404438.

The Canadian Index of Wellbeing: key findings from the healthy populations 
domain.

Muhajarine N(1), Labonte R, Winquist BD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Epidemiology, College of Medicine, 
University of Saskatchewan, Saskatoon, SK. nazeem.muhajarine@usask.ca

OBJECTIVES: The Canadian Index of Wellbeing (CIW) is an ambitious undertaking 
that aims to measure and track Canadians' overall "wellbeing". The Healthy 
Populations, one of eight CIW domains, brings together both population health 
outcomes and important influences on health.
METHODS: Indicators from eight subdomains (personal wellbeing, life 
expectancy/mortality, physical health conditions, functional health, mental 
health, lifestyle and behaviour, health care, and public health) make up the 
Healthy Populations domain. Following a review of worldwide literature on health 
and wellbeing indicators, application of a prespecified set of selection 
criteria, and expert external validation, ten core indicators and six secondary 
indicators were selected. The data sources include several national population 
data systems (CCHS, NPHS) and databases kept at the Canadian Institute for 
Health Information. Indicators were examined for trends over time, and were 
stratified by age, sex, income and education. A single summary measure, health 
domain index, was calculated and reported annually from 1994 to 2008.
RESULTS: Analysis of data over a 15-year time period found that Canadians are 
living longer, but with fewer years in optimal health. Diabetes rates have 
risen, along with obesity rates, while smoking rates are on the decline and 
regular physical activity is becoming more common. There were notable income and 
education gradients for virtually all indicators measured, and gender 
disparities evident for life expectancy, health-adjusted life expectancy, 
diabetes, and depression. A worrisome downward trend in health outcomes for 
Canada's youth (12-19 years) was observed. The overall health index score showed 
a modest rise of 6.6% from 1994 to 2008.
CONCLUSION: The Healthy Populations domain, and its ongoing use and refinement, 
can be an important resource for understanding and monitoring the health of 
Canadians. Knowledge about the status of Canadians' wellbeing will benefit from 
the contextualization of these findings through evidence generated from the 
other CIW domains.

OBJECTIFS: L’Indice canadien du mieux-être (ICMÊ) est un ambitieux projet qui 
vise à mesurer et à suivre le « mieux-être » général de la population 
canadienne. Le domaine des Populations en santé, l’un des huit domaines de 
l’ICMÊ, établit des liens entre les résultats de santé de la population et les 
grands facteurs qui influencent la santé.
MÉTHODE: Le domaine des Populations en santé comprend des indicateurs pour huit 
sous-domaines (mieux-être personnel, espérance de vie/mortalité, troubles 
physiques, santé fonctionnelle, santé mentale, mode de vie et comportement, 
soins de santé, santé publique). Après un examen de la documentation mondiale 
sur les indicateurs de la santé et du mieux-être, nous avons appliqué un 
ensemble prédéterminé de critères de sélection, que nous avons fait valider par 
des spécialistes indépendants, et sélectionné 10 indicateurs de base et 6 
indicateurs secondaires. Nos données provenaient de plusieurs bases et systèmes 
nationaux de données démographiques (ESCC, ENSP) hébergés à l’Institut canadien 
d’information sur la santé. Nous avons cherché à déceler les tendances des 
indicateurs au fil du temps, et nous avons stratifiés les indicateurs selon 
l’âge, le sexe, le revenu et l’instruction. Une mesure sommaire unique, l’indice 
du domaine de la santé, a été calculée et publiée annuellement entre 1994 et 
2008.
RÉSULTATS: L’analyse des données sur 15 ans a permis de constater que les 
Canadiens vivent plus longtemps, mais moins d’années dans un état de santé 
optimal. Les taux de diabète ont augmenté, tout comme les taux d’obésité, tandis 
que les taux de tabagisme ont baissé et que l’activité physique régulière a 
gagné du terrain. Presque tous les indicateurs mesurés font état de gradients 
notables pour le revenu et l’instruction, et de disparités manifestes entre les 
sexes sur le plan de l’espérance de vie, de l’espérance de vie corrigée en 
fonction de la santé, du diabète et de la dépression. Une tendance baissière 
inquiétante observée au Canada est celle des résultats sanitaires des jeunes 
(12-19 ans). L’indice de santé global a présenté une légère hausse (6,6 %) entre 
1994 et 2008.
CONCLUSION: Le domaine des Populations en santé (et son utilisation et son 
perfectionnement continus) peut être une importante ressource pour comprendre et 
surveiller la santé des Canadiens. Les connaissances sur le mieux-être de la 
population canadienne profiteront de la mise en contexte de nos constatations à 
la faveur des données probantes produites dans les autres domaines de l’ICMÊ.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03404438
PMCID: PMC6973733
PMID: 23617985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Can J Public Health. 2012 Jul 4;103(8 Suppl 2):S23-7. doi:
10.1007/BF03403825.

Learning from the census: the Socio-economic Factor Index (SEFI) and health 
outcomes in Manitoba.

[Article in English]

Chateau D(1), Metge C, Prior H, Soodeen RA.

Author information:
(1)Manitoba Centre for Health Policy, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Canada. 
dan_chateau@cpe.umanitoba.ca

OBJECTIVES: Using data from the Canadian census, researchers at the Manitoba 
Centre for Health Policy sought to create an area-based socio-economic measure 
(ABSM). The degree of association between the ABSM and health was evaluated.
METHODS: Values on several census variables (including income, education, 
employment and family structure) were captured at the enumeration-area or 
dissemination-area level and submitted to a principal components factor analysis 
to create three ABSMs: an updated version of the Socio-economic Factor Index 
(SEFI-2) and modified versions of Pampalon's material deprivation and social 
deprivation indices. Factor scores from these analyses were then compared with 
several population health measures: Premature Mortality Rate (PMR), Potential 
Years of Life Lost (PYLL), life expectancy, and self-rated health.
RESULTS: SEFI-2 scores were strongly related not only to the other ABSMs but 
also to every measure of health status. The strongest correlations between an 
ABSM and health measure were for SEFI-2 and PYLL(r=0.85), and SEFI-2 and PMR 
(r=0.80). The weakest correlations were found with the social deprivation ABSM 
measure and the self-rated health measure.
CONCLUSIONS: ABSMs based on measures from the Canadian census are a valuable 
resource to population health researchers. Importantly, depending on the 
research question and reason for the inclusion of an ABSM, these composite 
measures may perform better than a simple measure of income alone. The ability 
to adjust for socio-economic status when assessing population health status or 
population health interventions contributes to the validity of conclusions drawn 
when conducting this type of research, and ABSMs may be able to substitute for 
area health status where it may not be easily determined.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03403825
PMCID: PMC6973861
PMID: 23618067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Immun Ageing. 2013 Apr 25;10(1):15. doi: 10.1186/1742-4933-10-15.

Stress responses, vitagenes and hormesis as critical determinants in aging and 
longevity: Mitochondria as a "chi".

Cornelius C(1), Perrotta R, Graziano A, Calabrese EJ, Calabrese V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry University of Catania, Viale Andrea Doria, 95100 
Catania, Italy. calabres@unict.it.

Understanding mechanisms of aging and determinants of life span will help to 
reduce age-related morbidity and facilitate healthy aging. Average lifespan has 
increased over the last centuries, as a consequence of medical and environmental 
factors, but maximal life span remains unchanged. Extension of maximal life span 
is currently possible in animal models with measures such as genetic 
manipulations and caloric restriction (CR). CR appears to prolong life by 
reducing reactive oxygen species (ROS)-mediated oxidative damage. But ROS 
formation, which is positively implicated in cellular stress response 
mechanisms, is a highly regulated process controlled by a complex network of 
intracellular signaling pathways. By sensing the intracellular nutrient and 
energy status, the functional state of mitochondria, and the concentration of 
ROS produced in mitochondria, the longevity network regulates life span across 
species by coordinating information flow along its convergent, divergent and 
multiply branched signaling pathways, including vitagenes which are genes 
involved in preserving cellular homeostasis during stressful conditions. 
Vitagenes encode for heat shock proteins (Hsp) Hsp32, Hsp70, the thioredoxin and 
the sirtuin protein systems. Dietary antioxidants, have recently been 
demonstrated to be neuroprotective through the activation of hormetic pathways, 
including vitagenes. The hormetic dose-response, challenges long-standing 
beliefs about the nature of the dose-response in a lowdose zone, having the 
potential to affect significantly the design of pre-clinical studies and 
clinical trials as well as strategies for optimal patient dosing in the 
treatment of numerous diseases. Given the broad cytoprotective properties of the 
heat shock response there is now strong interest in discovering and developing 
pharmacological agents capable of inducing stress responses. Here we focus on 
possible signaling mechanisms involved in the activation of vitagenes resulting 
in enhanced defense against energy and stress resistance homeostasis dysiruption 
with consequent impact on longevity processes.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4933-10-15
PMCID: PMC3644272
PMID: 23618527


893. Prev Chronic Dis. 2013 Apr 25;10:E66. doi: 10.5888/pcd10.120239.

Defining and measuring chronic conditions: imperatives for research, policy, 
program, and practice.

Goodman RA(1), Posner SF, Huang ES, Parekh AK, Koh HK.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Mailstop K-40, 4770 Buford Hwy 
NE, Atlanta, GA 30341, USA. rag4@cdc.gov

Current trends in US population growth, age distribution, and disease dynamics 
foretell rises in the prevalence of chronic diseases and other chronic 
conditions. These trends include the rapidly growing population of older adults, 
the increasing life expectancy associated with advances in public health and 
clinical medicine, the persistently high prevalence of some risk factors, and 
the emerging high prevalence of multiple chronic conditions. Although preventing 
and mitigating the effect of chronic conditions requires sufficient measurement 
capacities, such measurement has been constrained by lack of consistency in 
definitions and diagnostic classification schemes and by heterogeneity in data 
systems and methods of data collection. We outline a conceptual model for 
improving understanding of and standardizing approaches to defining, 
identifying, and using information about chronic conditions in the United 
States. We illustrate this model's operation by applying a standard 
classification scheme for chronic conditions to 5 national-level data systems. 
Although the literature does not support a single uniform definition for chronic 
disease, recurrent themes include the non-self-limited nature, the association 
with persistent and recurring health problems, and a duration measured in months 
and years, not days and weeks--Thrall. So far, many different approaches have 
been used to measure the prevalence and consequences of chronic diseases and 
health conditions in children, resulting in a wide variability of prevalence 
estimates that cannot be readily compared--van der Lee et al.

DOI: 10.5888/pcd10.120239
PMCID: PMC3652713
PMID: 23618546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Apr;17(17):1-117, v-vi. doi: 10.3310/hta17170.

A systematic review and cost-effectiveness analysis of specialist services and 
adrenaline auto-injectors in anaphylaxis.

Armstrong N(1), Wolff R, van Mastrigt G, Martinez N, Hernandez AV, Misso K, 
Kleijnen J.

Author information:
(1)Kleijnen Systematic Reviews Ltd, York, UK.

BACKGROUND: Anaphylaxis is a severe, life-threatening generalised or systemic 
hypersensitivity reaction with high mortality. Specialist services (SSs) are 
believed to reduce anaphylaxis recurrence and improve use of adrenaline 
injectors (AIs), which can reduce mortality if used correctly and in time.
OBJECTIVES: To review the evidence on which persons are at high risk of 
anaphylactic episodes, the effects of history-taking (including signs, symptoms 
and physical examination) for anaphylaxis, and when (suspected) patients should 
be referred. To assess the cost-effectiveness of SS compared with standard care 
(SC) with or without prescription of AIs.
DATA SOURCES: In order to assess the clinical effectiveness, 10 databases 
[Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews (CDSR), Cochrane Central Register of 
Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE), 
Health Technology Assessment (HTA), NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED), 
Science Citation Index (SCI), Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health 
Literature (CINAHL), EMBASE, MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed 
Citations, from inception up to March 2011] were searched without data 
restriction in order to identify relevant studies [randomised controlled trials 
(RCTs), controlled clinical trials, observational studies, prognostic studies 
using a multivariate model] written in English.
REVIEW METHODS: Standard review methods were applied for the assessment of 
clinical effectiveness. A Markov model, validated by clinical experts, was 
constructed, which modelled anaphylaxis according to trigger: either food, drug, 
insect or idiopathic. Anaphylaxis mortality was modelled as a function of time 
to die and time for emergency response. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis on 
key parameters was performed.
RESULTS: From the systematic review, 11,058 references were identified by the 
searches for studies assessing the clinical effectiveness. In total, 107 papers 
were obtained, and five prospective observational studies, including 1725 
patients, were included. These studies estimated the risk of recurrence to be 
between 30% and 42.8%. In children (< 12 years), an overall recurrence of 27% 
was reported, with food being the most frequent allergen (71%). From the 
cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA), SC with injectors was dominated by SS with or 
without injectors. SS with no injectors would be cost-effective if the threshold 
for a quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was greater than about £ 740 and with 
injectors would be cost-effective if the threshold was > £ 1800. These results 
were robust to all sensitivity analyses except at relatively extreme values of a 
small number of parameters.
LIMITATIONS: Limitations of the study include the low yield from the systematic 
review; in particular there were no good-quality studies of either SSs or AI 
effectiveness. This implied a great reliance on expert opinion in the CEA. 
However, this was appropriately addressed using sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Only five observational studies assessing clinical effectiveness 
were identified. Owing to the lack of good data to inform the effectiveness of 
anaphylaxis intervention, we recommend considerations of RCTs or at least 
well-designed observational studies of the components of care in SSs. The 
results of the CEA showed that SS with AIs was cost-effective at a threshold of 
£ 20,000 per QALY. More well-designed prospective studies on the effectiveness 
of SSs are needed to confirm these findings.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17170
PMCID: PMC4780888
PMID: 23618619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Comp Biochem Physiol A Mol Integr Physiol. 2013 Jul;165(3):358-64. doi: 
10.1016/j.cbpa.2013.04.019. Epub 2013 Apr 23.

Relationship between brain and liver oxidative state and maximum lifespan 
potential of different fish species.

Sanz A(1), Trenzado CE, Botello Castro H, López-Rodríguez MJ, Tierno de Figueroa 
JM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Zoología, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de Granada, 
Granada, Spain. anasanz@ugr.es

The aim of the present study is to determine whether a relationship exists 
between the maximum lifespan potential (MLSP) of different fish species 
(Squalius pyrenaicus, Cyprinus carpio, Carassius auratus, Luciobarbus sclateri 
and Oncorhynchus mykiss) and the oxidative state of brain and liver. For this 
purpose, the activity of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase (SOD), 
catalase, glutathione peroxidase (GPX), glutathione reductase (GR), glutathione 
S-transferase (GST) and DT-diaphorase (NAD(P)H:quinone oxidoreductase1) were 
measured together with the lipid peroxidation degree (malondialdehyde, MDA) in 
liver and brain tissues of the collected species. Only the brain tissue 
manifested a higher activity of the antioxidant enzymes superoxide dismutase, 
glutathione peroxidase, and glutathione S-transferase in addition to a negative 
correlation between the values of MDA and MLSP among the different fish species. 
Hypotheses are proposed from the analysis of the obtained results that open new 
areas of research and converge on the importance of the theory of free radicals 
in the processes that condition the maximum life expectancy of an animal 
species.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbpa.2013.04.019
PMID: 23618756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Aug;94(2):269-76. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2013.83. Epub
2013  Apr 25.

Comparative effectiveness of dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban, and warfarin in 
the management of patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.

Pink J(1), Pirmohamed M, Hughes DA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation, Institute of Medical 
and Social Care Research, Bangor University, Bangor, UK.

Alternative anticoagulants to warfarin (dabigatran, rivaroxaban, and apixaban) 
are becoming available for the prevention of thromboembolic stroke in atrial 
fibrillation (AF), but there is a lack of information on their comparative 
effectiveness. Using a discrete event simulation method adopting a lifetime 
horizon of analysis, we made an indirect comparison of the RE-LY, ROCKET-AF, and 
ARISTOTLE trial results for AF patients in the US population. Over a lifetime, 
apixaban, dabigatran, and rivaroxaban accrued 0.130 (95% central range (CR) 
-0.030 to 0.264), 0.106 (95% CR -0.048 to 0.248), and 0.095 (95% CR -0.052 to 
0.242) more quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), respectively, than warfarin, 
with apixaban having a 55% probability of accruing the highest total QALYs. In 
the absence of a definitive trial, and acknowledging the limitations of an 
indirect comparison, the available evidence suggests apixaban to be the most 
effective anticoagulant.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2013.83
PMCID: PMC3827745
PMID: 23619028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Curr Opin Urol. 2013 Jul;23(4):360-5. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328361d3ed.

Adjuvant radiotherapy or early salvage radiotherapy in pT3R0 or pT3R1 prostate 
cancer.

Bartkowiak D(1), Bottke D, Wiegel T.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Department, University Hospital Ulm, Ulm, Germany.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: As the appropriate management of patients after prostatectomy 
is still controversial, the two major approaches, adjuvant radiotherapy (ART) 
vs. prostate-specific antigen-based surveillance and - upon biochemical 
recurrence - salvage radiotherapy (SRT) are discussed.
RECENT FINDINGS: Three prospectively randomized clinical trials into ART with 
5-12 years median follow-up and overall 1800 patients show a significant gain in 
freedom from biochemical recurrence after prostatectomy and adjuvant irradiation 
(hazard ratio ∼0.5). Only one study reported an improved overall survival 
(hazard ratio 0.72). Patients with pT3 and positive surgical margins are the 
most likely to profit from ART. Retrospective analyses of adjuvant vs. SRT 
suggest a similar oncological outcome if SRT is given early after recurrence, 
that is at a prostate-specific antigen of 0.5 ng/ml or less. Also, toxicity is 
similar with the two strategies. With positive lymph nodes, hormone therapy and 
optionally extended field radiotherapy can be recommended.
SUMMARY: The alternative ART or surveillance along with SRT after prostatectomy 
cannot yet be decided on conclusively. Compliance, physical side-effects, 
psychological aspects and life expectancy should be taken into account when 
discussing treatment options. Ongoing and planned trials will hopefully identify 
subgroups that profit most from one or the other strategy.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328361d3ed
PMID: 23619579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2013 Aug;47(7):630-6. doi:
10.1097/MCG.0b013e31828345c8.

Age-based and sex-based disparities in screening colonoscopy use among medicare 
beneficiaries.

Gancayco J(1), Soulos PR, Khiani V, Cramer LD, Ross JS, Genao I, Tinetti M, 
Gross CP.

Author information:
(1)Digestive Diseases, Yale School of Medicine, Yale Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, New Haven, CT, USA. johngancayco@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: The use of screening colonoscopy among older persons is 
controversial due to variability in life expectancy and sex-based differences in 
colorectal cancer incidence. We assessed the relation between sex, age, and 
receipt of screening colonoscopy overall and within strata of life expectancy.
METHODS: We used Medicare data to identify beneficiaries during the years 2001 
to 2005 who had not undergone a colonoscopy in the prior 3 years. Medicare 
claims were used to identify screening colonoscopy use; life expectancy was 
estimated using a life table approach. We used Poisson regression to examine sex 
and age differences in screening colonoscopy, adjusted for patient demographic 
characteristics.
RESULTS: Our sample consisted of 161,229 patients (61.9% female; mean age 76.9 
y). The screening colonoscopy rates for females and males were 16.9 and 24.4 
screening colonoscopies per 1000 person-years, respectively (P<0.001). The 
screening colonoscopy rate was highest for patients with the longest life 
expectancy (10 to 15 y: 27.2 screening colonoscopies per 1000 person-years) 
compared with 3.4 per 1000 person-years in the life expectancy <5-year group. 
Within specific life expectancy categories, older patients had significantly 
lower screening rates; in the 10- to 15-year life expectancy category, patients 
75 to 79 years old had a lower rate (21.9 screening colonoscopies per 1000 
person-years) than patients 68 to 69 years old (34.1 screening colonoscopies per 
1000 person-years; P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: In a large cohort of Medicare beneficiaries, there was evidence of 
screening colonoscopy use even among patients with a short life expectancy. 
After accounting for life expectancy, females and older persons were less likely 
to undergo screening colonoscopy.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0b013e31828345c8
PMID: 23619827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 May;31(5):427-44. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0048-3.

Lopinavir/ritonavir versus darunavir plus ritonavir for HIV infection: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis for the United States.

Simpson KN(1), Pei PP, Möller J, Baran RW, Dietz B, Woodward W, Migliaccio-Walle 
K, Caro JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Leadership and Management, College of Health 
Professions, Medical University of South Carolina, 151B Rutledge Ave., Room 412, 
Charleston, SC 29425, USA. simpsonk@musc.edu

BACKGROUND: The ARTEMIS trial compared first-line antiretroviral therapy (ART) 
with lopinavir/ritonavir (LPV/r) to darunavir plus ritonavir (DRV + RTV) for 
HIV-1-infected subjects. In order to fully assess the implications of this 
study, economic modelling extrapolating over a longer term is required.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to simulate the course of HIV and its 
management, including the multiple factors known to be of importance in ART.
METHODS: A comprehensive discrete event simulation was created to represent, as 
realistically as possible, ART management and HIV outcomes. The model was 
focused on patients for whom clinicians believed that LPV/r or DRV + RTV were 
good options as a first regimen. Prognosis was determined by the impact of 
initial treatment on baseline CD4+ T-cell count and viral load, adherence, 
virological suppression/failure/rebound, acquired resistance mutations, and 
ensuing treatment changes. Inputs were taken from trial data (ARTEMIS), 
literature and, where necessary, stated assumptions. Clinical measures included 
AIDS events, side effects, time on sequential therapies, cardiovascular events, 
and expected life-years lost as a result of HIV infection. The model underwent 
face, technical and partial predictive validation. Treatment-naive individuals 
similar to those in the ARTEMIS trial were modelled over a lifetime, and 
outcomes with first-line DRV + RTV were compared with those with LPV/r, both 
paired with tenofovir and emtricitabine. Up to three regimen changes were 
permitted. Drug prices were based on wholesale acquisition cost. Outcomes were 
lifetime healthcare costs (in 2011 US dollars) from the US healthcare system 
perspective and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) (discounted at 3 % per 
annum).
RESULTS: Choice of LPV/r over DRV + RTV as initial ART resulted in nearly 
identical clinical outcomes, but distinctly different economic consequences. 
Starting with an LPV/r regimen potentially results in approximately US$25,000 
discounted lifetime savings. Accumulated QALYs for LPV/r and DRV + RTV were 
12.130 and 12.083, respectively (a 19-day difference). In sensitivity analyses, 
net monetary benefit ranged from US$12,000 to US$31,000, favouring LPV/r (base 
case US$27,762).
CONCLUSIONS: A comprehensive simulation of lifetime course of HIV in the USA 
indicated that using LPV/r as first-line therapy compared with DRV + RTV may 
result in cost savings, with similar clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0048-3
PMID: 23620210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Jul;31(7):551-62. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0051-8.

Dabigatran for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in atrial 
fibrillation: A NICE single technology appraisal.

Faria R(1), Spackman E, Burch J, Corbacho B, Todd D, Pepper C, Woolacott N, 
Palmer S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Alcuin 'A' Block, University of York, 
Heslington, York, YO10 5DD, UK. rita.nevesdefaria@york.ac.uk

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer of dabigatran etexilate (Boehringer Ingelheim Ltd, UK) to submit 
evidence for the clinical and cost-effectiveness of this drug for the prevention 
of stroke and systemic embolism in patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation (AF) as part of the NICE single technology appraisal process. The 
Centre for Reviews and Dissemination and the Centre for Health Economics at the 
University of York were commissioned to act as the evidence review group (ERG). 
This article presents a summary of the manufacturer's submission, the ERG report 
and the subsequent development of NICE guidance for the use of dabigatran within 
the UK National Health Service. Dabigatran was granted marketing authorisation 
by the European Medicines Agency for a sequential dosing regimen (DBG 
sequential), in which patients under 80 years are treated with dabigatran 150 mg 
twice daily (DBG150) and patients 80 years and over are given dabigatran 110 mg 
twice daily (DBG110). NICE decisions are bound by the marketing authorisation; 
therefore, the decision problem faced by the committee was whether the DBG 
sequential regimen was effective and cost-effective compared with warfarin or 
aspirin for patients with non-valvular AF and one or more risk factors. The 
RE-LY trial, a large multi-centre non-inferiority randomised clinical trial, was 
the primary source of clinical evidence. DBG150 was shown to be non-inferior, 
and subsequently superior to warfarin, for the primary outcome of all 
stroke/systemic embolism. DBG110 was found to be non-inferior to warfarin. 
Results were presented for a post hoc subgroup analysis for patients under and 
over 80 years of age, where DBG110 showed a statistically significant reduction 
of haemorrhagic stroke and intracranial haemorrhage in comparison to warfarin in 
patients over 80 years of age. This post hoc subgroup analysis by age was the 
basis for the licensed DBG sequential regimen. The economic evaluation compared 
the costs and outcomes of DBG110, DBG150 and DBG sequential against warfarin, 
aspirin, and aspirin plus clopidogrel. Across the three dosing regimens, 
dabigatran was associated with greater costs and better health outcomes than 
warfarin; however, DBG150 offered the most benefits and dominated DBG110 and DBG 
sequential (i.e. less costly and more effective). The cost-effectiveness of 
DBG150 was less favourable for patients well controlled on warfarin. In the 
first appraisal meeting, the committee issued a 'minded no' decision until 
additional analyses on the licensed DBG sequential regimen were presented by the 
manufacturer. These additional analyses indicated that the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the DBG sequential regimen compared with 
warfarin ranged from £8,388 to £18,987 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained depending on the level of monitoring costs assumed for warfarin. Patients 
on warfarin would need to be within therapeutic range 83-85 % of the time for 
the ICER to exceed £30,000 per additional QALY. Following consideration of the 
additional evidence and the responses from a large number of consultees and 
commentators, the committee recommended dabigatran as DBG sequential as an 
option for the prevention of stroke and systemic embolism in people with 
non-valvular AF with one or more risk factors for ischaemic stroke.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0051-8
PMID: 23620211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]901. J Biomed Nanotechnol. 2013 Apr;9(4):615-20. doi: 10.1166/jbn.2013.1576.

A strategy for sequencing based on rolling-circle amplification on a microarray.

Gao L(1), Cui J, Zhou Y, Chen L, Zhang C, Chen K, Lian C, Li L, Li H, Liang J.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Information Science and Instrument Engineering, Hangzhou 
Dianzi University, Hangzhou 310018, Zhejiang Province, P R. China. 
oga2001@163.com

The sequencing of DNA fragments has become an important facet of the study of 
genomes. Parallel genomic DNA fragments displayed on a microarray play a key 
role in producing a template in next generation DNA sequencing. Here, we 
developed a technique to display parallel genomic DNA fragments based on the 
reaction with Bst DNA polymerase on a microarray. One of the hyperbranched 
rolling circle amplification (HRCA) primers was modified with acrylamide. HRCA 
products could be localized near the respective templates in polyacrylamide gel. 
DNA colonies produced by HRCA were displayed massively and in parallel on a 
microarray. Then the probe labeled with Cy 5 was hybridized to DNA colonies and 
extension reactions with Cy 5-labeled deoxyribonucleoside triphosphates (dNTPs) 
were carried out. The results show the signals of hybridization and extension 
reactions could be obtained. This provided a strategy for high-throughput 
sequencing.

DOI: 10.1166/jbn.2013.1576
PMID: 23621020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2013;14(2):1031-5. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.2.1031.

Knowledge of Turkish mothers with children in the 0-13 age group about cancer 
symptoms.

Demirbag BC(1), Kurtuncu M, Guven H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, School of Nursing, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Karadeniz Technical University, Trabzon, Turkey. cdemirbag@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: There have been few studies in Turkey on the incidence of childhood 
cancers. A mother's knowledge about signs and symptoms of cancer is important 
for early diagnosis, effective treatment, and improvement of life expectancy. 
This study was conducted with a group of mothers of children, aged 0-13, at a 
Family Health Center (FHC) in Turkey's Eastern Black Sea Region, to analyze 
their knowledge about cancer symptoms in childhood.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study group of this descriptive/cross-sectional 
research comprised 2,061 mothers, ages 19-49, at an FHC in the Eastern Black Sea 
Region in February 1, 2011 - June 1, 2011. Before the study, permission was 
obtained from the local ethics board and the institutions concerned. A value of 
p<0.05 was accepted as statistically significant.
RESULTS: Of the mothers, 34.9% were between the ages of 40-47, 40.5% had three 
children, 73.8% had no experience with children with cancer, 45.9% said they 
learned about cancer on television, 39.7% stated that the primary reason for 
childhood cancer was the mother's smoking during pregnancy, 68.8% said that 
early diagnosis would save a child, and 98% wanted to learn about childhood 
cancer.
CONCLUSION: It was determined that the mothers' knowledge of cancer was 
deficient.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.2.1031
PMID: 23621181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


903. J Med Econ. 2013;16(6):777-83. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.800822. Epub 2013
May  10.

Utilities for advanced basal cell carcinoma.

Shingler SL(1), Garside J, Samanta K, Lear JT, Keohane S, Lloyd AJ.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes, An ICON plc Company, Oxford, Oxfordshire, UK. 
sarah.shingler@oxfordoutcomes.com

OBJECTIVE: Most incidences of basal cell carcinoma are cured by a number of 
surgical or non-surgical treatments. However, a few patients have lesions which 
have metastasized or progressed to an extent that surgery or other treatment 
options are not possible. The lesions associated with advanced basal cell 
carcinoma (aBCC) can be disfiguring, affecting patients' psychological state, 
general quality-of-life (QoL), and potentially life expectancy. The objective of 
this study was to capture societal utility values for health states related to 
aBCC, using the time trade-off (TTO) methodology.
METHODS: Nine health states were developed with input from expert clinicians and 
literature. States included: complete response (CR), post-surgical, partial 
response (PR) (with differing sized lesions [2 or 6 cm]), stable disease (SD) 
(with differing size and number of lesions [2 or 6 cm, or multiple 2 cm]) and 
progressive disease (PD) (with differing sized lesions [2 or 6 cm]). A 
representative sample of 100 members of the UK general public participated in 
the valuation exercise. The TTO method was used to derive utility values based 
upon subjects' responses to decision scenarios; between living in the health 
state for 10 years or living in a state of full health for 10-x years.
RESULTS: Mean utility scores were calculated for each state. The least 
burdensome state as valued by subjects was CR (mean = 0.94; SD = 0.08), 
suggesting only a minimal impact on QoL. The state valued as having a greatest 
impact on QoL was PD, with a 6 cm lesion (mean = 0.67, SD = 0.25).
LIMITATIONS AND CONCLUSIONS: Not all possible presentations of aBCC were 
included; the disease is a challenging condition to characterise given its 
rarity, the nature of the patients affected, and its variable progression. 
Findings suggest that aBCC is associated with significant burden for 
individuals, even when their disease is stable or where surgical treatment has 
been successful.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.800822
PMID: 23621505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. J Med Econ. 2013 Jul;16(7):845-58. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.800523. Epub
2013  May 15.

Is dabigatran considered a cost-effective alternative to warfarin treatment: a 
review of current economic evaluations worldwide.

Hesselbjerg LJ(1), Pedersen HS, Asmussen MB, Petersen KD.

Author information:
(1)Danish Center for Healthcare Improvements, Faculty of Social Sciences and 
Faculty of Health Sciences, Aalborg University, Denmark. 
louisejhesselbjerg@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: Dabigatran was the first of a new generation of anticoagulation drugs 
for the indication of non-valvular atrial fibrillation (AF) to be approved. 
Evidence show that dabigatran 150 mg twice daily significantly reduces the risk 
of stroke and systemic embolism (RR = 0.65; p < 0.001) and shows a comparable 
rate of major bleedings (RR = 0.93; p = 0.32), whereas dabigatran 110 mg twice 
daily was associated with a comparable rate of stroke and systemic embolism 
(RR = 0.90; p = 0.30) and a significantly lower rate of major bleedings compared 
to warfarin treatment (RR = 0.80; p = 0.003). The purpose is to review current 
economic evaluations of these alternatives for healthcare professionals to 
include these findings in their decision-making.
METHODS: A systematic literature search identified 43 economic evaluations, of 
which 10 were included and evaluated according to the Consensus Health Economic 
Criteria list (CHEC-list) and the Oxford model.
RESULTS: Six economic evaluations concluded that dabigatran was a cost-effective 
alternative to warfarin. One evaluation concluded the same except when quality 
in warfarin treatment was excellent, with a mean time in therapeutic range 
(TTR) > 73%. Three evaluations concluded that dabigatran was a cost-effective 
alternative to warfarin in patient sub-groups; TTR ≤ 64%, congestive heart 
failure, hypertension, age ≥ 75, diabetes mellitus, prior stroke or transient 
ischemic attack (CHADS2 score) ≥3, or a CHADS2 score = 2 unless international 
normalized ratio (INR) control was excellent, and with high risk of stroke or in 
a low-quality warfarin treatment. Dabigatran 110 mg twice daily was in general 
dominated by dabigatran 150 mg twice daily.
LIMITATIONS: The evaluations were not fully homogeneous, as some did not include 
loss of productivity, costs of dyspepsia, and annual costs of dabigatran patient 
management.
CONCLUSIONS: In the majority of the economic evaluations, dabigatran is a 
cost-effective alternative to warfarin treatment. In some evaluations dabigatran 
is only cost-effective in sub-groups, such as patients with a low TTR-value in 
warfarin treatment and a CHADS2 score ≥2.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.800523
PMCID: PMC4627374
PMID: 23621506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. BMC Infect Dis. 2013 Apr 27;13:190. doi: 10.1186/1471-2334-13-190.

Boceprevir for previously untreated patients with chronic hepatitis C Genotype 1 
infection: a US-based cost-effectiveness modeling study.

Ferrante SA, Chhatwal J, Brass CA, El Khoury AC, Poordad F, Bronowicki JP, 
Elbasha EH.

BACKGROUND: SPRINT-2 demonstrated that boceprevir (BOC), an oral hepatitis C 
virus (HCV) nonstructural 3 (NS3) protease inhibitor, added to peginterferon 
alfa-2b (P) and ribavirin (R) significantly increased sustained virologic 
response rates over PR alone in previously untreated adult patients with chronic 
HCV genotype 1. We estimated the long-term impact of triple therapy vs. dual 
therapy on the clinical burden of HCV and performed a cost-effectiveness 
evaluation.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to estimate the incidence of liver 
complications, discounted costs (2010 US$), quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), 
and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of three treatment strategies 
for treatment-naïve patients with chronic HCV genotype 1. The model simulates 
the treatment regimens studied in SPRINT-2 in which PR was administered for 
4 weeks followed by: 1) placebo plus PR for 44 weeks (PR48); 2) BOC plus PR 
using response guided therapy (BOC/RGT); and 3) BOC plus PR for 44 weeks 
(BOC/PR48) and makes projections within and beyond the trial. HCV-related 
state-transition probabilities, costs, and utilities were obtained from 
previously published studies. All costs and QALYs were discounted at 3%.
RESULTS: The model projected approximately 38% and 43% relative reductions in 
