447. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2012;13(12):6245-50. doi: 
10.7314/apjcp.2012.13.12.6245.

Estimation of time trends of incidence of prostate cancer--an Indian scenario.

Lalitha K(1), Suman G, Pruthvish S, Mathew A, Murthy NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, M.S.Ramaiah Medical College, Bangalore, 
India.

BACKGROUND: With increase in life expectancy, adoption of newer lifestyles and 
screening using prostate specific antigen (PSA), the incidence of prostate 
cancer is on rise. Globally prostate cancer is the second most frequently 
diagnosed cancer and sixth leading cause of cancer death in men. The present 
communication makes an attempt to analyze the time trends in incidence for 
different age groups of the Indian population reported in different Indian 
registries using relative difference and regression approaches.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: The data published in Cancer Incidence in Five Continents 
for various Indian registries for different periods and/or publications by the 
individual registries served as the source materials. Trends were estimated by 
computing the mean annual percentage change (MAPC) in the incidence rates using 
the relative difference between two time periods (latest and oldest) and also by 
estimation of annual percentage change (EAPC) by the Poisson regression model.
RESULTS: Age adjusted incidence rates (AAR) of prostate cancer for the period 
2005-2008 ranged from 0.8 (Manipur state excluding Imphal west) to 10.9 (Delhi) 
per 105 person-years. Age specific incidence rates (ASIR) increased in all PBCRs 
especially after 55 years showing a peak incidence at +65 years clearly 
indicating that prostate cancer is a cancer of the elderly. MAPC in crude 
incidence rate(CR) ranged from 0.14 (Ahmedabad) to 8.6 (Chennai) . Chennai also 
recorded the highest MAPC of 5.66 in ASIR in the age group of 65+. Estimated 
annual percentage change (EAPC) in the AAR ranged from 0.8 to 5.8 among the 
three registries. Increase in trend was seen in the 5-64 year age group cohort 
in many registries and in the 35-44 age group in Metropolitan cities such as 
Delhi and Mumbai.
CONCLUSIONS: Several Indian registries have revealed an increasing trend in the 
incidence of prostate cancer and the mean annual percentage change has ranged 
from 0.14-8.6.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2012.13.12.6245
PMID: 23464439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2013 May-Jun;31(3):400-8. Epub 2013 Mar 4.

Cost-effectiveness simulation model of biologic strategies for treating to 
target rheumatoid arthritis in Germany.

Beresniak A(1), Baerwald C, Zeidler H, Krüger K, Neubauer AS, Dupont D, 
Merkesdal S.

Author information:
(1)Data Mining International, Geneva, Switzerland. 
aberesniak@datamining-international.com

OBJECTIVES: The treatment of active rheumatoid arthritis (RA) usually requires 
different therapeutic options used sequentially in case of an insufficient 
response (IR) to previous agents. Since there is a lack of clinical trials 
comparing biologic treatment sequences, simulation models might add to the 
understanding of optimal treatment sequences and their cost-effectiveness. The 
objective of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of different 
biologic treatment strategies in patients with an IR to anti-TNF agents, based 
on levels of disease activity from the German public payer's perspective.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness sequential model was developed in accordance with 
local RA treatment strategies, using DAS28 scores as dichotomous effectiveness 
endpoints: achieving remission/no remission (RS/no RS) or a state of low disease 
activity (LDAS/no LDAS). Costs were estimated using resource utilisation data 
obtained from a large observational German cohort. Advanced simulations were 
conducted to assess the cost-effectiveness over 2 years of four sequential 
biologic strategies composed of up to 3 biologic agents, namely anti-TNF agents, 
abatacept or rituximab, in patients with moderate-to-severe active RA and an IR 
to at least one anti-TNF agent.
RESULTS: Over two years, the biological sequence including abatacept after an IR 
to one anti-TNF agent appeared the most effective and cost-effective versus 
(vs.) use after two anti-TNF agents (€633 vs. €1,067/day in LDAS and €1,222 vs. 
€3,592/day in remission), and vs a similar sequence using rituximab (€633 vs. 
€728/day in LDAS and €1,222 vs. €1,812/day in remission). The sequence using a 
3rd anti-TNF agent was less effective and cost-effective than the same sequence 
using abatacept (€2,000 vs. €1,067/day in LDAS and €6,623 vs. €3,592/day in 
remission). All differences were statistically significant (p<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: The results suggest that in patients with an IR to at least one 
anti-TNF agent, biologic sequences including abatacept appear more efficacious 
and cost-effective than similar sequences including rituximab or only cycled 
anti-TNF agents.

PMID: 23464803 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. J Ren Care. 2013 Jan;39 Suppl 1:56-61. doi:
10.1111/j.1755-6686.2013.00339.x.

The HOME network: an Australian national initiative for home therapies.

Chow J(1), Fortnum D, Moodie JA, Simmonds R, Tomlins M.

Author information:
(1)Clinical & Business Service, South Western Sydney Local Health District, New 
South Wales, Australia. josephine.chow@sswahs.nsw.gov.au

BACKGROUND: Longer, more frequent dialysis at home can improve life expectancy 
for patients with chronic kidney disease. Increased use of home dialysis 
therapies also benefits the hospital system, allowing for more efficient 
allocation of clinic resources. However, the Australian and New Zealand Data 
Registry statistics highlight the low uptake of home haemodialysis and 
peritoneal dialysis across Australia.
OBJECTIVE: In August 2009, the Australia's HOME Network was established as a 
national initiative to engage and empower healthcare professionals working in 
the home dialysis specialty. The aim was to develop solutions to advocate for 
and ultimately increase the use of home therapies. This paper describes the 
development, achievement and future plan of the Australian HOME Network.
ACHIEVEMENTS: Achievements to date include: a survey of HOME Network members to 
assess the current state of patient and healthcare professional-targeted 
education resources; development of two patient case studies and activities 
addressing how to overcome the financial burden experienced by patients on home 
dialysis. Future projects aim to improve patient and healthcare professional 
education, and advocacy for home dialysis therapies.
CONCLUSION: The HOME Network is supporting healthcare professionals working in 
the home dialysis specialty to develop solutions and tools that will help to 
facilitate greater utilisation of home dialysis therapies.

© 2013 European Dialysis and Transplant Nurses Association/European Renal Care 
Association.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1755-6686.2013.00339.x
PMID: 23464915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Psychol Health. 2013;28(8):939-53. doi: 10.1080/08870446.2013.770513. Epub
2013  Mar 6.

Exploring the transitional process from receiving a diagnosis to living with 
motor neurone disease.

Mistry K(1), Simpson J.

Author information:
(1)Sheffield Community Brain Injury Rehabilitation Team, Sheffield Health and 
Social Care NHS Foundation Trust, Sheffield, UK.

Motor neurone disease (MND) is a rapidly progressing neurodegenerative condition 
that results in a marked reduction in life expectancy. Currently, little is 
known about the experiences of people after they have received this diagnosis 
and the effect of this on their sense of self and identity. In this study, 
interpretative phenomenological analysis was used to explore both the personal 
and lived experiences of people with MND. Seven people diagnosed with MND within 
the previous six months were recruited. The three themes constructed from the 
participants' accounts were 'Then they dropped the bomb shell'; Receiving a 
diagnosis of MND; 'Getting on with it'; Learning to live with MND; and 'A lot of 
normal life is lost'; Experiencing progressive loss. Participants described 
receiving a diagnosis as a devastating experience but most participants were 
able to accept their diagnosis and employ adaptive strategies to cope with 
increasing levels of functional decline. However, in spite of this, the 
participants experienced functional changes that affected their identity, social 
status and social relationships.

DOI: 10.1080/08870446.2013.770513
PMID: 23464923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Can J Cardiol. 2013 Aug;29(8):1006-13. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2012.11.029. Epub
 2013 Mar 7.

A review of the cardiometabolic risk experience among Canadian Métis 
populations.

Foulds HJ(1), Shubair MM, Warburton DE.

Author information:
(1)Experimental Medicine Program, Faculty of Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.

Cardiometabolic risk is a growing concern in Western society in which rates of 
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and obesity are on the rise. Aboriginal 
populations currently experience unequal burdens of these chronic conditions. 
However, limited information regarding the experience of cardiometabolic risk 
among Métis populations is available. This review sought to evaluate the 
cardiometabolic risk experience among Métis populations in Canada. Canada's 
Métis population currently experiences greater burdens of chronic conditions 
including metabolic syndrome, diabetes, obesity, and cardiovascular disease than 
that of the non-Aboriginal population. Métis populations also experience poorer 
life expectancy, education, and employment attainments, and reduced access to 
health care services compared with non-Aboriginal populations. Interventions 
addressing the deficiencies in sociodemographic, lifestyle, and social 
determinants among the Métis population might help combat rising experiences of 
chronic diseases faced by these people. Though the burden of chronic conditions, 
sociodemographic, lifestyle challenges, and social determinants of health among 
Métis populations are generally less than that of First Nations populations, 
Métis people experience these health challenges and influencing factors are 
generally more similar to that of First Nations than non-Aboriginal peoples. 
Subsequently, Métis populations need to be included in plans and strategies to 
reduce chronic conditions among Aboriginal populations. In conclusion, Métis 
populations experience greater burden of cardiometabolic risk and its components 
than the general Canadian population.

Copyright © 2013 Canadian Cardiovascular Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2012.11.029
PMID: 23465285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Blood Purif. 2013;35 Suppl 1:85-9. doi: 10.1159/000346358. Epub 2013 Feb 25.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of on-line hemodiafiltration in Japan.

Takura T(1), Kawanishi H, Minakuchi J, Nagake Y, Takahashi S.

Author information:
(1)Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan. 
takura@heip.med.osaka-u.ac.jp

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Evaluation of the socioeconomic value of medical intervention 
and establishment of the resources necessary for clinical practice are important 
for new developments in medical technology. The aim of this study was to 
determine the socioeconomic value of on-line hemodiafiltration (HDF).
METHODS: The subjects were 24 patients who underwent hemodialysis (HD) (9 HDF, 
15 HD) for chronic renal failure. A total of 288 dialysis interventions were 
observed for 4 weeks in three clinics. Cost-effectiveness was evaluated based on 
quality-adjusted life years (Qaly) and a visual analog scale.
RESULTS: EuroQOL-5D (0.776 ± 0.015) and visual analog scale (67.9 ± 1.2) in the 
HDF group were higher than those in the HD group at baseline. The incremental 
cost utility ratio for HDF was 641.7 (JPY 10,000/Qaly) based on Qaly (0.776 ± 
0.015) and reimbursement for medical fees (JPY 4,982,736 ± 7,852), and was lower 
than the incremental cost utility ratio for HD.
CONCLUSION: These results suggest that on-line HDF could be cost-effective.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000346358
PMID: 23466387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Clin Oncol (R Coll Radiol). 2013 May;25(5):290-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.clon.2013.01.008. Epub 2013 Mar 5.

Management of metastatic bone disease in the elderly with bisphosphonates and 
receptor activator of NF-kB ligand inhibitors: effectiveness and safety.

Vassiliou V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Bank of Cyprus Oncology Centre, Nicosia, 
Cyprus. vasilis.vasiliou@bococ.org.cy

The life expectancy of Western populations has risen in the last few decades, 
resulting in a steep increase in the number of elderly cancer patients. 
Metastatic bone disease (MBD) is an important problem in such patients as it is 
associated with the development of skeletal-related events (SREs), such as 
fractures and spinal cord compression. These complications do not only 
deteriorate the quality of life of affected patients, but can also reduce 
expected survival. Due to the fact that elderly patients have an increased risk 
of SREs, maintaining bone health and implementing effective treatments for 
managing MBD is of vital importance. Bisphosphonates have been shown to be 
effective in reducing the risk of SREs considerably in patients with MBD. 
Moreover, they have been shown to reduce pain and improve the quality of life of 
affected patients. Bisphosphonates should be used with caution in elderly 
patients due to the fact that their use can bring about renal function 
deterioration. Several preventive measures need to be followed in order to 
minimise the risk of this complication. Denosumab is a monoclonal antibody 
inhibiting receptor activator of NF-kB ligand and has shown superiority over 
zoledronic acid in reducing the risk of SREs. In the three comparative trials 
between denosumab and zoledronic acid, survival and disease progression were 
similar between the two groups. Denosumab has been shown not to affect renal 
function and can therefore be safely used in the elderly. Osteonecrosis of the 
jaws is a devastating complication that may occur after treatment with either 
denosumab or zoledronic acid. The incidence rates between the two are comparable 
and percentage differences not statistically significant. In the three 
randomised trials, hypocalcaemia occurred more frequently in denosumab-treated 
patients than in those managed with zoledronic acid, with the corresponding 
percentages being 5.5-13% versus 3.4-6%. In order to minimise the risk of 
osteonecrosis of the jaws and hypocalcaemia, all precautionary measures and 
treatment guidelines should be followed closely. Several studies have 
investigated the cost-effectiveness of denosumab versus zoledronic acid when 
used for SRE prevention. These studies reported contradictory results due to the 
application of different analytical perspectives and model parameters.

Copyright © 2013 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clon.2013.01.008
PMID: 23466465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. Neurobiol Dis. 2013 Jun;54:32-42. doi: 10.1016/j.nbd.2013.02.010. Epub 2013
Mar  4.

PACAP signaling exerts opposing effects on neuroprotection and neuroinflammation 
during disease progression in the SOD1(G93A) mouse model of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis.

Ringer C(1), Büning LS, Schäfer MK, Eiden LE, Weihe E, Schütz B.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Anatomy and Cell Biology, Philipps-University, Marburg, Germany.

Pituitary adenylate cyclase-activating polypeptide (PACAP) is a pleiotropic 
peptide with autocrine neuroprotective and paracrine anti-inflammatory 
properties in various models of acute neuronal damage and neurodegenerative 
diseases. Therefore, we examined a possible beneficial role of endogenous PACAP 
in the superoxide dismutase 1, SOD1(G93A), mouse model of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis (ALS), a lethal neurodegenerative disease particularly affecting 
somatomotor neurons. In wild-type mice, somatomotor and visceromotor neurons in 
brain stem and spinal cord were found to express the PACAP specific receptor 
PAC1, but only visceromotor neurons expressed PACAP as a potential autocrine 
source of regulation of these receptors. In SOD1(G93A) mice, only a small subset 
of the surviving somatomotor neurons showed induction of PACAP mRNA, and 
somatomotor neuron degeneration was unchanged in PACAP-deficient SOD1(G93A) 
mice. Pre-ganglionic sympathetic visceromotor neurons were found to be resistant 
in SOD1(G93A) mice, while pre-ganglionic parasympathetic neurons degenerated 
during ALS disease progression in this mouse model. PACAP-deficient SOD1(G93A) 
mice showed even greater pre-ganglionic parasympathetic neuron loss compared to 
SOD1(G93A) mice, and additional degeneration of pre-ganglionic sympathetic 
neurons. Thus, constitutive expression of PACAP and PAC1 may confer 
neuroprotection to central visceromotor neurons in SOD1(G93A) mice via autocrine 
pathways. Regarding the progression of neuroinflammation, the switch from 
amoeboid to hypertrophic microglial phenotype observed in SOD1(G93A) mice was 
absent in PACAP-deficient SOD1(G93A) mice. Thus, endogenous PACAP may promote 
microglial cytodestructive functions thought to drive ALS disease progression. 
This hypothesis was consistent with prolongation of life expectancy and 
preserved tongue motor function in PACAP-deficient SOD1(G93A) mice, compared to 
SOD1(G93A) mice. Given the protective role of PACAP expression in visceromotor 
neurons and the opposing effect on microglial function in SOD1(G93A) mice, both 
PACAP agonism and antagonism may be promising therapeutic tools for ALS 
treatment, if stage of disease progression and targeting the specific auto- and 
paracrine signaling pathways are carefully considered.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nbd.2013.02.010
PMCID: PMC3955759
PMID: 23466699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2013 Apr;34(4):424-9. doi: 10.1086/669862.
Epub  2013 Feb 15.

Linking scientific evidence and decision making: a case study of hand hygiene 
interventions.

Graves N(1), Halton K, Page K, Barnett A.

Author information:
(1)Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, Queensland, Australia. 
n.graves@qut.edu.au

DOI: 10.1086/669862
PMID: 23466917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Nat Med. 2013 Mar;19(3):248. doi: 10.1038/nm0313-248.

Report triggers quibbles over QALYs, a staple of health metrics.

Holmes D.

DOI: 10.1038/nm0313-248
PMID: 23467219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


457. Endoscopy. 2013 Jun;45(6):485-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1326227. Epub 2013 Mar
6.

Self-expandable metal stents as definitive treatment for esophageal variceal 
bleeding.

Holster IL(1), Kuipers EJ, van Buuren HR, Spaander MC, Tjwa ET.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Erasmus MC University Medical 
Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. i.holster@erasmusmc.nl

The use of self-expandable metal stents (SEMS) has occasionally been described 
for the treatment of uncontrollable esophageal variceal bleeding (EVB) as a 
bridge to an alternative treatment option (i. e. transjugular intrahepatic 
portosystemic shunt [TIPS]). It is currently not known whether SEMS placement is 
appropriate for more than temporary hemostasis. This case series report 
describes five patients in whom EVB could not be controlled with variceal band 
ligation and who were not suitable to undergo a TIPS procedure at the time of 
bleeding. SEMS were placed in these patients with the intent of definitive 
treatment. Successful initial hemostasis was achieved in all five patients, and 
sustained hemostasis occurred in four. Stents were removed from two patients 
after > 14 days and remained in situ until death in three other patients (range 
6 - 214 days). No complications related to this longer duration were observed. 
In one case, TIPS could be performed at a later stage. SEMS could be a 
definitive treatment for uncontrollable esophageal bleeding in patients with a 
limited life expectancy or those unsuitable for TIPS at the time of bleeding.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1326227
PMID: 23468191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Nephrol Nurs J. 2012 Nov-Dec;39(6):491-6; quiz 497.

Demographics of the older adult and chronic kidney disease: a literature review.

Elliott RW(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, University of Southern Mississippi, USA. 
rowena.elliott@usm.edu

Older adults (65 years of age and older) comprised 4.1% of the population in 
1900 (3.1 million), rose to 13.0% in 2010 (40.3 million), and are projected to 
reach 16.1% in 2020 (54.8 million). With each decade, there has been a steady 
increase, including older adults, in the population with chronic kidney disease. 
This article provides a review of the literature related to the demographics of 
the older adult population and older adults with chronic kidney disease. It also 
explores life expectancy, health promotion, and the economic impact of chronic 
kidney disease and its co-morbidities.

PMID: 23469415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Practitioner. 2013 Jan;257(1757):21-5, 2-3.

Tailor treatment in the older patient with type 2 diabetes.

Abdelhafiz AH(1), Sinclair AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Elderly Medicine, Rotherham General Hospital, Rotherham, UK.

Around 50% of older people with diabetes are asymptomatic. When symptoms are 
present they are often nonspecific, patients may feel generally unwell, tired or 
lethargic. Classic osmotic symptoms are usually less prominent in older age 
because of an increased renal threshold for glucose, resulting in reduced 
polyuria, and impairment of thirst sensation, resulting in reduced polydipsia. 
Because of the complexity of diabetes in old age a comprehensive assessment is 
important at initial diagnosis, with the aim of preventing loss of autonomy and 
preserving independence. Diabetes should be diagnosed if fasting plasma glucose 
is > or = 7 mmol/L or 2 hour postprandial glucose > or = 11.1 mmol/L. In 
addition to traditional micro- and macrovascular complications seen in younger 
people, older people with diabetes are at risk of developing atypical 
complications or geriatric syndromes such as cognitive dysfunction, depression, 
disability, falls, persistent pain and urinary incontinence. Glycaemic targets 
should be individualised taking into consideration the patient's overall health 
and life expectancy. Older people may tolerate higher levels of blood glucose 
before they develop osmotic symptoms because of a higher renal threshold for 
glucose with increasing age. On the other hand, they may appear to tolerate 
lower levels of blood glucose because of diminished autonomic symptoms of 
hypoglycaemia. Older people with diabetes are twice as likely to develop 
Alzheimer's disease or vascular dementia as age-matched controls without 
diabetes.

PMID: 23469724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Mini Rev Med Chem. 2013 Apr 1;13(5):643-52. doi:
10.2174/1389557511313050003.

The finely regulating well-defined functional polymeric nanocarriers for 
anti-tumor immunotherapy.

Li W(1), Zhang L, Zhang G, Wei H, Zhao M, Li H, Guo S, Gao J, Kou G, Li B, Dai 
J, Wang H, Guo Y.

Author information:
(1)International Joint Cancer Institute, The Second Military Medical University, 
800 Xiangyin Road, Shanghai 200433, PR China. liwei.dds@gmail.com

Cancer is the second leading cause of death around the world. Cancer may be 
induced by viral infection (EBV,HBV and HPV), bacterial infection (Helicobacter 
pylori), carcinogen, ultraviolet (UV) radiation exposure, and genetic mutation. 
Tumor can be suppressed by traditional surgery, radiotherapy, and/or 
chemotherapy with devastating side effects and very poor quality of 
postoperative life. The therapeutic index has been further promoted by the newly 
developed nanomedicine. However, the disseminated tumor cells can result in 
micrometastases. So the cancer can just be supresssed but not cured by these 
ways. Fortunately, the developments of immunology have successfully improved 
many disciplines with special effort on oncology. Various immune cells including 
B cells, T-lymphocytes (TL), natural killer(NK) cells, dendritic cells (DCs), 
macrophages, and polymorphonuclear leukocytes are recruited to the tumor. These 
immune cells can recognize, eliminate, and protect the body from viral, 
bacterial infections, and the transformed cells(pre-cancer cell) extension. The 
modification of host immune system, and/or the utilization of components of the 
immune system for cancer treatment are called immunotherapy. The immunotherapy 
is not only to target and kill tumor cells in aspecific manner, but also to 
alert the immune system to eradicate the disseminated tumor cells present in the 
blood circulation and micro-metastases in remote organs. Herein, the development 
of immunology, cancer immunotherapy,tumor immuno escape was introduced firstly. 
Then the correlations between host, the tumor and the nano particulates were 
proposed. And how to improve the cancer immunotherapy by finely nanocarrier's 
engineering (nanoimmunotherapy) was systematically illustrated with special 
focus on the unique pathology of tumor microenviroments and properties of immuno 
cells.

DOI: 10.2174/1389557511313050003
PMID: 23469780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Chronic Dis Inj Can. 2013 Mar;33(2):103.

Report summary--Health-Adjusted Life Expectancy in Canada: 2012 Report by the 
Public Health Agency of Canada.

Public Health Agency of Canada Steering Committee on Health-Adjusted Life 
Expectancy.

Collaborators: Bakshi P, Choi BC, Diener A, Driscoll E, Ellison J, Jiang X, Kwan 
A, Loukine L, Luo W, Morrison H, Orpana H, Saaltink AJ, Semenciw R, Wang F, 
Waters C, Yue C, Zhang R.

PMID: 23470176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. J Agric Food Chem. 2013 Mar 27;61(12):3047-53. doi: 10.1021/jf3054643. Epub
2013  Mar 18.

Anthocyanin-rich purple wheat prolongs the life span of Caenorhabditis elegans 
probably by activating the DAF-16/FOXO transcription factor.

Chen W(1), Müller D, Richling E, Wink M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University, Im 
Neuenheimer Feld 364, D-69120 Heidelberg, Germany.

Colored cereals attract public attention due to their potential antioxidant 
properties and corresponding health benefits. Purple wheat, rich in 
anthocyanins, is one of the newly developed cereals on the market. 
Cyanidin-3-O-glucoside (42.6%) is the predominant anthocyanin in purple wheat, 
followed by peonidin-3-O-glucoside (39.9%) and malvidin-3-O-galactoside (17.4%). 
To investigate the potential antiaging and antioxidant properties of purple 
wheat, the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans was chosen as an experimental model 
organism. It was found that an anthocyanin-rich methanolic extract of purple 
wheat extended the mean life span of wild type worms and of mev-1(hn1) mutants, 
which are sensitive to oxidative stress, by 10.5 and 9.2%, respectively. Life 
span extension depends on the transcription factor DAF-16; no significant 
increase of longevity was seen in daf-16 (mgDf50) mutant worms. Translocation of 
DAF-16/FOXO to the nucleus implies that the transcription factor DAF-16/FOXO was 
activated under purple wheat treatment by inhibition of the insulin/IGF-1-like 
signaling pathway which includes the insulin receptor DAF-2. Moreover, purple 
wheat increased stress response in C. elegans as well as reduced oxidative 
stress. Anthocyanins of purple wheat apparently exhibit beneficial effects in C. 
elegans. They may exert similar properties in humans, which is an issue to be 
explored in future studies.

DOI: 10.1021/jf3054643
PMID: 23470220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Br J Psychiatry. 2013 Apr;202(4):294-300. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.111.107003.
Epub  2013 Mar 7.

Gender differences in mental health expectancies in early- and midlife in six 
European countries.

Brugha TS(1), Matthews R, Alonso J, Vilagut G, Fouweather T, Bruffaerts R, de 
Girolamo G, de Graaf R, Haro JM, Kovess V, Jagger C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, UK. tsb@le.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Health expectancies, taking into account both quality and quantity 
of life, have generally been based on disability and physical functioning.
AIMS: To compare mental health expectancies at age 25 and 55 based on common 
mental disorders both across countries and between males and females.
METHOD: Mental health expectancies were calculated by combining mortality data 
from population life tables and the age-specific prevalence of selected common 
mental disorders obtained from the European Study of the Epidemiology of Mental 
Disorders (ESEMeD).
RESULTS: For the male population aged 25 (all countries combined) life 
expectancy was 52 years and life expectancy spent with a common mental disorder 
was 1.8 years (95% CI 0.7-2.9), 3.4% of overall life expectancy. In comparison, 
for the female population life expectancy at age 25 was higher (57.9 years) as 
was life expectancy spent with a common mental disorder (5.1 years, 95% CI 
3.6-6.6) and as a proportion of overall life expectancy, 8.8%. By age 55 life 
expectancy spent with a common mental disorder had reduced to 0.7 years (males) 
and 2.3 years (females).
CONCLUSIONS: Age and gender differences underpin our understanding of years 
spent with common mental disorders in adulthood. Greater age does not mean 
living relatively more years with common mental disorder. However, the female 
population spends more years with common mental disorders and a greater 
proportion of their longer life expectancy with them (and with each studied 
separate mental disorder).

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.111.107003
PMID: 23470286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 2013 Feb;63(2):129-32. doi: 
10.1080/10962247.2013.760353.

Fine particulate air pollution and life expectancies in the United States: the 
role of influential observations.

Pope CA 3rd(1), Ezzati M, Dockery DW.

Author information:
(1)Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602, USA. cap3@byu.edu

Changes in life expectancy (LE) across metropolitan areas in the United States 
have been associated with substantial differential reductions in fine 
particulate matter (aerodynamic diameter < 2.5 microm; PM2.5) air pollution that 
occurred during the 1980s and 1990s. It has been suggested that a single 
influential observation was largely responsible for the statistically 
significant LE-PM2.5 associations. In this paper, the role of influential 
observations is further explored. Stable and statistically significant LE-PM2.5 
associations are observed in analyses that control for available socioeconomic, 
demographic, and proxy smoking variables and that use robust regression 
procedures that are relatively resistant to influential observations. These 
associations are not dependent upon the inclusion or exclusion of any single 
observation.
IMPLICATIONS: These results contribute to the large and growing literature 
indicating that exposure to fine particulate matter air pollution has 
substantive adverse effects on human health. These results, however, also 
provide encouraging evidence that the improvements in air quality that occurred 
during the 1980s and 1990s contributed to measurable improvements in human 
health and life expectancy in the United States.

DOI: 10.1080/10962247.2013.760353
PMID: 23472296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 2013 Feb;63(2):133-5. doi: 
10.1080/10962247.2013.760357.

A reanalysis of fine particulate matter air pollution versus life expectancy in 
the United States.

Krstić G(1).

Author information:
(1)Fraser Health, Environmental Health Services, #218 - 610 Sixth Street, New 
Westminster, BC V3L 3C2, Canada. Goran.Krstic@fraserhealth.ca

Republished from
    J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 2012 Sep;62(9):989-91.

A reduction in population exposure to fine particulate matter air pollution 
(PM2.5) has been associated with improvements in life expectancy. This article 
presents a reanalysis of this relationship and comments on the results from a 
study on the reduction of ambient air PM2.5 concentrations versus life 
expectancy in metropolitan areas of the United States. The results of the 
reanalysis show that the statistical significance of the correlation is lost 
after removing one of the metropolitan areas from the regression analysis, 
suggesting that the results may not be suitable for a meaningful and reliable 
inference.
IMPLICATIONS: The observed loss of statistical significance in the correlation 
between the reduction of ambient air PM2.5 concentrations and life expectancy in 
metropolitan areas of the United States, after removing one of the metropolitan 
areas from the regression analysis, may raise concern for the policymakers in 
decisions regarding further reductions in permitted levels of air pollution 
emissions.

DOI: 10.1080/10962247.2013.760357
PMID: 23472297


466. Ir Med J. 2013 Jan;106(1):4.

The global burden of disease.

Murphy JF.

PMID: 23472365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Brain Inj. 2013;27(4):473-84. doi: 10.3109/02699052.2012.750758. Epub 2013
Mar  8.

An Italian population study on 600 persons in vegetative state and minimally 
conscious state.

Leonardi M(1), Sattin D, Raggi A.

Author information:
(1)Neurological Institute C. Besta IRCCS Foundation, Neurology, Public Health 
and Disability Unit, Milan, Italy. leonardi@istituto-besta.it

OBJECTIVE: To describes socio-demographic and clinical features of adults and 
children in vegetative state (VS) and minimally conscious state (MCS).
DESIGN: Observational cross-sectional study.
METHODS: Demographic, aetiological and clinical data were collected, together 
with patients' management procedures. Mann-Whitney U-test was used for 
continuous variables and chi-squared test for categorical variables.
RESULTS: Six hundred patients (69.7% in VS; 6% children) were enrolled. No 
difference regarding age at enrolment, age at acute event and disease duration 
was observed between VS and MCS. Disease duration was superior to 10 years for 
3.3% of the whole sample and 64.3-77% of cases had a non-traumatic aetiology. 
Mean number of drugs per adult patient was four and decreased consistently with 
increased disease duration.
DISCUSSION: Patients with VS and MCS were similar for age at acute event and at 
enrolment, both over 50 years, as well as for the frequency of non-traumatic 
aetiology. Disease duration was similar for both conditions and 2.6% of VS and 
4.8% of MCS patients survived for more than 10 years. Finally care and treatment 
needs are similar and not related to diagnosis.

DOI: 10.3109/02699052.2012.750758
PMID: 23472633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Cell Metab. 2013 Mar 5;17(3):456-62. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2013.02.008.

Duration of rapamycin treatment has differential effects on metabolism in mice.

Fang Y(1), Westbrook R, Hill C, Boparai RK, Arum O, Spong A, Wang F, Javors MA, 
Chen J, Sun LY, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrics Laboratory, Department of Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois 
University School of Medicine, Springfield, IL 62794, USA. yfang@siumed.edu

Comment in
    Aging (Albany NY). 2013 May;5(5):328-9.

The evolutionarily conserved target of rapamycin (TOR) signaling controls 
growth, metabolism, and aging. In the first robust demonstration of 
pharmacologically-induced life extension in mammals, longevity was extended in 
mice treated with rapamycin, an inhibitor of mechanistic TOR (mTOR). However, 
detrimental metabolic effects of rapamycin treatment were also reported, 
presenting a paradox of improved survival despite metabolic impairment. How 
rapamycin extended lifespan in mice with such paradoxical effects was unclear. 
Here we show that detrimental effects of rapamycin treatment were only observed 
during the early stages of treatment. These effects were reversed or diminished 
in mice treated for 20 weeks, with better metabolic profiles, increased oxygen 
consumption and ketogenesis, and markedly enhanced insulin sensitivity. Thus, 
prolonged rapamycin treatment lead to beneficial metabolic alterations, 
consistent with life extension previously observed. Our findings provide a 
likely explanation of the "rapamycin paradox" and support the potential causal 
importance of these metabolic alterations in longevity.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2013.02.008
PMCID: PMC3658445
PMID: 23473038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Psychol Health Med. 2014;19(1):83-92. doi: 10.1080/13548506.2013.774428.
Epub  2013 Mar 11.

Heart-related anxieties in relation to general anxiety and severity of illness 
in cardiology patients.

Muschalla B(1), Glatz J, Linden M.

Author information:
(1)a Research Group Psychosomatic Rehabilitation , Charité University Medicine , 
Berlin , Germany .

Absence of an adequate reason for anxiety is a criterion for pathological 
anxiety. However, the presence of danger or fear-provoking stimuli may even be a 
risk factor for anxiety and does not exclude that there is additionally 
pathological anxiety too. The question is, to what degree can heart-related 
anxiety be explained by the severity of illness or trait anxiety? Two hundred 
and nine patients (37.8% women) from a cardiology inpatient unit completed the 
Heart-Anxiety-Questionnaire, Progression-Anxiety-Questionnaire, 
Job-Anxiety-Scale and the State-Trait-Anxiety-Inventory. The severity of cardiac 
illness was rated by the treating cardiologists using the Multidimensional 
Severity of Morbidity Rating. Time absent from work due to sickness was assessed 
as an indicator for illness-related impairment. Heart anxiety was significantly 
related to progression anxiety and, to a lesser extent, trait anxiety and 
indicators of subjective symptoms of somatic illness. No association was found 
with medical ratings for prognosis, multimorbidity, or reduction in life 
expectancy. Heart-related anxiety is a symptom of an anxiety disorder. Although 
partially dependent on subjective suffering, it cannot be explained by the 
severity of medical illness. Treatment of health-related anxieties should focus 
on how to cope with subjective symptoms of illness.

DOI: 10.1080/13548506.2013.774428
PMID: 23473360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. Exp Appl Acarol. 2013 Sep;61(1):69-78. doi: 10.1007/s10493-013-9682-x. Epub
2013  Mar 10.

Life table parameters and capture success ratio studies of Typhlodromips 
swirskii (Acari: Phytoseiidae) to the factitious prey Suidasia medanensis 
(Acari: Suidasidae).

Midthassel A(1), Leather SR, Baxter IH.

Author information:
(1)BCP Certis, Newbury House, Hinxhill, Ashford, Kent, TN25 5NR, UK. 
a.midthassel11@imperial.ac.uk

The predatory mite Typhlodromips swirskii (Athias-Henriot) is commonly used to 
suppress pest populations of thrips and whitefly in commercial greenhouses. Many 
generalist phytoseiid mites can be reared on astigmatid factitious prey. This 
study investigated the life table parameters of T. swirskii to the astigmatid 
mite Suidasia medanensis (Oudemans) and the capture success ratio of T. swirskii 
to different life stages of the prey. Juvenile development time and survival was 
5.01 ± 0.10 days and 93 %, respectively. The intrinsic (r m ) and finite (λ) 
rates of increase were 0.222 and 1.249, respectively, with average oviposition 
rate of 1.71 ± 0.07 eggs/female/day. The capture success ratio of T. swirskii to 
S. medanensis was: eggs > freeze killed adults > nymphs > live adults. 
Typhlodromips swirskii was concluded to exhibit good population growth rates 
with S. medanensis as prey and, a prey population with predominance of eggs and 
nymphs to be advantageous to the predator due to an unidentified defence 
mechanism of adult prey.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-013-9682-x
PMID: 23474738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


471. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2013 May;67(5):453-7. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2012-201761. Epub 2013 Mar 8.

Widening socioeconomic differences in mortality among men aged 65 years and 
older in Germany.

Kibele EU(1), Jasilionis D, Shkolnikov VM.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Centre, Faculty of Spatial Sciences, University of 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. e.u.b.kibele@rug.nl

BACKGROUND: Although socioeconomic mortality differences in Germany are well 
documented, trends in group-specific mortality and differences between the 
eastern and the western parts of the country remain unexplored.
METHODS: Population and death counts by level of lifetime earnings (1995-1996 to 
2007-2008) and broad occupational groups (1995-1996 to 2003-2004) for men aged 
65 years and older were obtained from the German Federal Pension Fund. Directly 
standardised mortality rates and life expectancy at age 65 were used as 
mortality measures.
RESULTS: Mortality declined in all socioeconomic groups in eastern and western 
Germany and these declines tended to be larger in higher status groups. Relative 
socioeconomic differences in age-standardised mortality rates and in life 
expectancy at age 65 widened over time. Absolute differences widened over the 
majority of time periods. The widening was more pronounced in eastern Germany.
CONCLUSIONS: Widening socioeconomic mortality differences in Germany, especially 
in eastern Germany, show that population groups did not benefit equally from the 
improvements in survival. The results suggest that special efforts have to be 
taken in order to reduce mortality among people with lower socioeconomic status, 
especially in eastern Germany. Health equity should be considered a priority 
when planning policies, practices, and changes in the healthcare system and 
related sectors.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2012-201761
PMID: 23474774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. Clin Res Cardiol. 2013 Jun;102(6):447-58. doi: 10.1007/s00392-013-0552-7.
Epub  2013 Mar 9.

Cost-effectiveness of ticagrelor versus clopidogrel for the prevention of 
atherothrombotic events in adult patients with acute coronary syndrome in 
Germany.

Theidel U(1), Asseburg C, Giannitsis E, Katus H.

Author information:
(1)Herescon Gmbh, Königsworther Str. 2 30167 Hannover, Germany. 
theidel@herescon.com [corrected]

Erratum in
    Clin Res Cardiol. 2013 Jun;102(6):477.

The aim of this health economic analysis was to compare the cost-effectiveness 
of ticagrelor versus clopidogrel within the German health care system. A 
two-part decision model was adapted to compare treatment with ticagrelor or 
clopidogrel in a low-dose acetylsalicylic acid (ASA) cohort (≤150 mg) for all 
ACS patients and subtypes NSTEMI/IA and STEMI. A decision-tree approach was 
chosen for the first year after initial hospitalization based on trial 
observations from a subgroup of the PLATO study. Subsequent years were estimated 
by a Markov model. Following a macro-costing approach, costs were based on 
official tariffs and published literature. Extensive sensitivity analyses were 
performed to test the robustness of the model. One-year treatment with 
ticagrelor is associated with an estimated 0.1796 life-years gained (LYG) and 
gained 0.1570 quality-adjusted life-years (QALY), respectively, over the 
lifetime horizon. Overall average cost with ticagrelor is estimated to be EUR 
11,815 vs. EUR 11,387 with generic clopidogrel over a lifetime horizon. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was EUR 2,385 per LYG (EUR 2,728 per 
QALY). Comparing ticagrelor with Plavix(®) or the lowest priced generic 
clopidogrel, ICER ranges from dominant to EUR 3,118 per LYG (EUR 3,567 per 
QALY). These findings are robust under various additional sensitivity analyses. 
Hence, 12 months of ACS treatment using ticagrelor/ASA instead of 
clopidogrel/ASA may offer a cost-effective therapeutic option, even when the 
generic price for clopidogrel is employed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-013-0552-7
PMCID: PMC4269206
PMID: 23474908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


473. Intern Emerg Med. 2013 Apr;8 Suppl 1:S65-9. doi: 10.1007/s11739-013-0914-1.

Testosterone and cardiovascular risk.

Tirabassi G(1), Gioia A, Giovannini L, Boscaro M, Corona G, Carpi A, Maggi M, 
Balercia G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Department of Clinical and Molecular Sciences, 
Umberto I Hospital, Polytechnic University of Marche, Via Conca 71, 60126, 
Ancona, Italy.

Cardiovascular (CV) disease is one of the most common causes of death in the 
western populations and, nowadays, its incidence is increasing even in the 
developing countries; although CV disease affects both sexes, it is more 
frequent in males in whom it shortens the average life expectancy. In this 
regard, this difference has been wrongly attributed for many years to the 
negative effects of testosterone (T); however, nowadays, a large amount of 
evidence suggests that this hormone may have protective effects on the CV system 
and that, indeed, the low levels of T could be associated with an increased CV 
risk and with an augmentation of morbidity and mortality in males. Such an 
aspect gains great relevance in light of the consideration that T decrease, 
besides occurring as a consequence of rare pathological conditions, can often 
take place with natural aging, causing a state of "male menopause", also called 
late-onset hypogonadism. In this review, we aimed to summarize the present state 
of the art concerning the association between T deficit and CV disease by 
analyzing the protective role of T on CV system and the relationship of this 
hormonal lack with metabolic syndrome, CV morbidity and mortality, and with the 
CV complications, such as ischemic heart disease, heart failure and stroke, that 
frequently occur in T deficiency.

DOI: 10.1007/s11739-013-0914-1
PMID: 23475207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Ophthalmologe. 2013 Apr;110(4):306-9. doi: 10.1007/s00347-012-2713-x.

[Is prophylactic YAG iridotomy useful in pigment dispersion syndrome?].

[Article in German]

Rosentreter A(1), Schwenn O, Funk J, Dietlein T.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Augenheilkunde, Universität zu Köln, Joseph-Stelzmann-Str. 9, 
50931 Köln. andre.rosentreter@googlemail.com

Despite theoretical considerations concerning the advantage of iridotomy in eyes 
with pigment dispersion syndrome or early pigment glaucoma, there is a lack of 
clinical evidence that this procedure has a long-term effect in preventing 
glaucoma damage under these circumstances. However, several factors may 
contribute to this lack of evidence, e.g. the statistical problem of a low 
conversion rate from pigment dispersion syndrome to pigment glaucoma or the 
inclusion criteria in the studies treating patients older than 40 years or 
genetic dispositions in pigment glaucoma that are not yet fully clear. On the 
basis of current data the decision for YAG iridotomy should only be taken in 
patients younger than 40 years, if the midperipheral iris shows an inverse 
bowing and the intraocular pressure is normal or slightly increased with no 
progressive signs of optic nerve damage. In cases of insufficient intraocular 
pressure and visual defects due to glaucomatous optic nerve damage, incisional 
glaucoma surgery is usually necessary especially in younger patients with a long 
life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00347-012-2713-x
PMID: 23475270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. IEEE Trans Biomed Eng. 2013 Dec;60(12):3284-90. doi:
10.1109/TBME.2013.2250972.  Epub 2013 Mar 7.

Kinetic Gait Analysis Using a Low-Cost Insole.

Howell AM, Kobayashi T, Hayes HA, Foreman KB, Bamberg SJ.

Abnormal gait caused by stroke or other pathological reasons can greatly impact 
the life of an individual. Being able to measure and analyze that gait is often 
critical for rehabilitation. Motion analysis labs and many current methods of 
gait analysis are expensive and inaccessible to most individuals. The low-cost, 
wearable, and wireless insole-based gait analysis system in this study provides 
kinetic measurements of gait by using low-cost force sensitive resistors. This 
paper describes the design and fabrication of the insole and its evaluation in 
six control subjects and four hemiplegic stroke subjects. Subject-specific 
linear regression models were used to determine ground reaction force plus 
moments corresponding to ankle dorsiflexion/plantarflexion, knee 
flexion/extension, and knee abduction/adduction. Comparison with data 
simultaneously collected from a clinical motion analysis laboratory demonstrated 
that the insole results for ground reaction force and ankle moment were highly 
correlated (all >0.95) for all subjects, while the two knee moments were less 
strongly correlated (generally >0.80). This provides a means of cost-effective 
and efficient healthcare delivery of mobile gait analysis that can be used 
anywhere from large clinics to an individual's home.

DOI: 10.1109/TBME.2013.2250972
PMID: 23475336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. J Neuroimmune Pharmacol. 2013 Dec;8(5):1167-80. doi:
10.1007/s11481-013-9444-x.  Epub 2013 Mar 9.

Oxidative stress and the HIV-infected brain proteome.

Uzasci L(1), Nath A, Cotter R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Molecular Sciences, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA, luzasci1@jhu.edu.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is capable of infiltrating the brain and 
infecting brain cells. In the years following HIV infection, patients show signs 
of various levels of neurocognitive problems termed HIV-associated 
neurocognitive disorders (HAND). Although the introduction of highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has reduced the incidence of HIV-dementia, which 
is the most severe form of HAND, the milder forms have become more prevalent 
today due to the increased life expectancy of infected individuals. Pre-HAART 
era markers such as HIV RNA level, CD4+ count, TNF-α, MCP-1 and M-CSF are not 
able to clearly distinguish mild from advanced HAND. One promising approach for 
new biomarker discovery is the identification and quantitation of proteins that 
are post-translationally modified by oxidative and nitrosative species. The 
occurrence of oxidative and nitrosative stress in HIV-infected brain, both 
through the early direct and indirect effects of viral proteins and through the 
later effect on mitochondrial integrity during apoptosis, is well-established. 
This review will focus on how the reactive species are produced in the brain 
