Canada.

As life expectancy lengthens, dementia is becoming a significant human condition 
in terms of its prevalence and cost to society worldwide. It is important in 
that context to understand the preventable and treatable causes of dementia. 
This article exposes the link between dementia and heart disease in all its 
forms, including coronary artery disease, myocardial infarction, atrial 
fibrillation, valvular disease, and heart failure. This article also explores 
the cardiovascular risk factors and emphasizes that several of them are 
preventable and treatable. In addition to medical therapies, the lifestyle 
changes that may be useful in retarding the onset of dementia are also 
summarized.

DOI: 10.2147/CLEP.S30621
PMCID: PMC3641811
PMID: 23658499


15. Ontogenez. 2013 Jan-Feb;44(1):57-65. doi: 10.7868/s0475145013010072.

[Graduated change of life expectancy in mice in ontogenesis].

[Article in Russian]

Malygin AG.

Life expectancy of descendants of a normal female mouse and a male with an 
inherited growth inhibition mutation discovered in a laboratory population was 
investigated. The hereditability of the characteristic allows us to consider it 
a result of mutation. It was shown that, in mice, the curve of dependence of 
life expectancy on their serial number in a row of increase in life expectancy 
(curve of rank distribution) has step-like shape for mutant males and females, 
as well as for males with normal development. The first grade of mice death on 
the curve of rank distribution was observed at one month after their birth and 
was characteristic only of males and females with a mutation during the period 
of maximum lag in weight as compared with their normal relatives. The surviving 
mutants catch up to the normally developing individuals within two months and 
externally become indistinguishable from them. The subsequent grades of death in 
mutants and normal males coincide on the time axis. The steps are absent on the 
rank curves of life expectancy of normally developing females. The time 
intervals between the steps are reproduced in parallel groups of mice and, 
hence, are not casual deviations from theoretical curves and are of a regular 
nature. The discovered phenomenon is interpreted within the scope of a 
hypothesis about the realization of the genetic program of ontogenesis, which 
provides periodic change of vitality stages with stages of sensitivity to 
external risk factors, which increase the probability of death, by mice. Absence 
of such stages in the group of normally developing females can be explained by 
shifts in development, which are produced by the irregular performance of 
reproductive functions.

DOI: 10.7868/s0475145013010072
PMID: 23659082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. J Med Econ. 2013 Jul;16(7):926-38. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.803110. Epub
2013  May 31.

The cost-effectiveness of exenatide once weekly compared with exenatide twice 
daily and insulin glargine for the treatment of patients with type two diabetes 
and body mass index ≥30 kg/m(2) in Spain.

Fonseca T(1), Clegg J, Caputo G, Norrbacka K, Dilla T, Alvarez M.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health, Health Economics and Outcomes Research, London, UK. 
tfonseca@uk.imshealth.com

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this analysis was to estimate the cost-effectiveness 
of exenatide once weekly (EQW) for the treatment of type two diabetes mellitus 
(T2DM) in Spain. EQW was compared against exenatide twice daily (EBID) and 
insulin glargine (IG).
METHODS: The IMS CORE Diabetes Model was used to project clinical and economic 
outcomes for patients with T2DM treated with EQW, EBID, and IG. Treatment 
effects and patient baseline characteristics were taken from the DURATION 3 and 
pooled DURATION 1 and 5 studies, in the comparison against IG and EBID, 
respectively. Unit costs and health state utility values were derived from 
published sources. To reflect diabetes progression, patients started on EQW or 
EBID, switching to insulin glargine after 3 years. The analysis was conducted 
from the perspective of the Spanish National Health Service over a time horizon 
of 35 years with costs and outcomes discounted at 3%. The base case included 
patients with a BMI > 30 kg/m(2), which is in line with current prescription 
restrictions in Spain. Uncertainty was addressed through extensive one-way 
sensitivity analyses around key model parameters and a comprehensive 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: When compared with EBID, EQW was the dominant strategy, i.e., less 
costly and more effective. When compared to IG, the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was estimated at €12,084 per QALY gained. Sensitivity 
analysis indicated that the model projections were robust to the various 
scenarios tested.
LIMITATIONS: Primary limitations of the analysis are common to other T2DM 
analyses and include the extrapolation of short-term clinical data to the 35 
year time horizon and uncertainty around optimum treatment durations.
CONCLUSION: The analyses indicate that EQW is a cost-effective option for the 
treatment of T2DM patients in Spain for patients with a BMI > 30 kg/m(2) 
considering a willingness-to-pay threshold of €30,000 per QALY gained.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.803110
PMID: 23659201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2013 May 9;11:81. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-11-81.

A comparison of four different approaches to measuring health utility in 
depressed patients.

Turner N(1), Campbell J, Peters TJ, Wiles N, Hollinghurst S.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Mental Health, Addiction and Suicide Research, School of Social 
and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Oakfield House, Canynge Hall, 39 
Whatley Road, Bristol BS8 2PS, UK. Nicholas.Turner@bristol.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: A variety of instruments are used to measure health related quality 
of life. Few data exist on the performance and agreement of different 
instruments in a depressed population. The aim of this study was to investigate 
agreement between, and suitability of, the EQ-5D-3L, EQ-5D Visual Analogue Scale 
(EQ-5D VAS), SF-6D and SF-12 new algorithm for measuring health utility in 
depressed patients.
METHODS: The intraclass correlation coefficient (ICC) and Bland and Altman 
approaches were used to assess agreement. Instrument sensitivity was analysed 
by: (1) plotting utility scores for the instruments against one another; (2) 
correlating utility scores and depressive symptoms (Beck Depression Inventory 
(BDI)); and (3) using Tukey's procedure. Receiver Operating Characteristic (ROC) 
analysis assessed instrument responsiveness to change. Acceptability was 
assessed by comparing instrument completion rates.
RESULTS: The overall ICC was 0.57. Bland and Altman plots showed wide limits of 
agreement for each pair wise comparison, except between the SF-6D and SF-12 new 
algorithm. Plots of utility scores displayed 'ceiling effects' in the EQ-5D-3L 
index and 'floor effects' in the SF-6D and SF-12 new algorithm. All instruments 
showed a negative monotonic relationship with BDI, but the EQ-5D-3L index and 
EQ-5D VAS could not differentiate between depression severity sub-groups. The 
SF-based instruments were better able to detect changes in health state over 
time. There was no difference in completion rates of the four instruments.
CONCLUSIONS: There was a lack of agreement between utility scores generated by 
the different instruments. According to the criteria of sensitivity, 
responsiveness and acceptability that we applied, the SF-6D and SF-12 may be 
more suitable for the measurement of health related utility in a depressed 
population than the EQ-5D-3L, which is the instrument currently recommended by 
NICE.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-11-81
PMCID: PMC3663709
PMID: 23659557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Genome. 2013 Mar;56(3):131-7. doi: 10.1139/gen-2013-0003. Epub 2013 Feb 21.

Genomic and chromosomal distribution patterns of various repeated DNA sequences 
in wheat revealed by a fluorescence in situ hybridization procedure.

Komuro S(1), Endo R, Shikata K, Kato A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Plant Breeding, Faculty of Life and Environmental Sciences, 
Kyoto Prefectural University, 1-5 Shimogamo Hangi-cho, Sakyo-ku, Kyoto-shi, 
Kyoto-fu 606-0823, Japan.

Wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) is an allohexaploid, in which each of the three 
genomes has a high 1C content. This indicates the presence of multiple tandemly 
repeated sequences, which should be detectable using in situ hybridization. Some 
repeats have already been described, but others remain to be recognized. To 
discover others, 2000 plasmid wheat clones were examined for signal presence 
after fluorescence in situ hybridization and microscopic signal observation. 
Among them, 47 clones produced strong discrete signals on wheat chromosomes. Two 
of the newly identified clones (pTa-535 and pTa-713) were determined to have 
especially valuable sequences for chromosome identification. In combination with 
pTa-86 (the pSc119 homologous sequence), these probes enable unambiguous 
discrimination of all wheat chromosomes including orientation. Four newly 
identified sequences (pTa-465, pTa-k566, pTa-s120, and pTa-s126) were useful in 
that they produced discrete signals on various wheat chromosome arms. Two other 
clones (pTa-k288 and pTa-k229) produced GISH-like (genomic in situ 
hybridization) signals because they allowed the A, B, and D genomes to be 
distinguished simultaneously. In addition, centromere, centromere-related, and 
ribosomal DNA clones were identified. Also described are improvements on slide 
preparation and reprobing procedures. To enhance discrete signal detection, a 
new direct fluorescent-labeling procedure, namely the VentR (exo-) terminal 
extension method, was employed.

DOI: 10.1139/gen-2013-0003
PMID: 23659696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Cancer Treat Rev. 2014 Feb;40(1):41-7. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2013.04.002. Epub 
2013 May 6.

Trastuzumab in small tumours and in elderly women.

Albanell J(1), Ciruelos EM, Lluch A, Muñoz M, Rodríguez CA.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Service, Hospital del Mar, IMIM (Hospital del Mar Research 
Institute), Pompeu Fabra University, Barcelona, Spain.

Results of trials assessing the role of trastuzumab in the adjuvant setting in 
early breast cancer have brought a new standard of treatment to clinical 
practice. Nevertheless, some groups of patients are underrepresented in these 
trials and thus therapy should be planned based on incomplete information or 
lack of solid data. Two of these groups are high-risk HER2+ small tumours (<1cm) 
and elderly patients. In this review we aimed at addressing the most relevant 
data about these two populations underrepresented in clinical trials. HER2 
overexpression or amplification confers a bad prognosis in patients with small 
breast tumours. Mammographic screening is increasing the early diagnosis. Taking 
into account that specific targeted adjuvant treatment can avoid relapses in 50% 
of HER2-positive patients, about 2 to 7% of relapses from small tumours could be 
avoided with the use of this treatment. Randomized and non-randomized trials 
support the idea that adjuvant therapies could improve clinical outcomes of ⩽1cm 
tumours. Adding a HER2-targeted treatment to chemotherapy may improve efficacy. 
Some recent data in the neo-adjuvant context suggest that, in some patients, 
aggressive chemotherapy treatment could be properly substituted by HER2-targeted 
therapy. In elderly women with HER2+ breast cancer, trastuzumab should be 
considered for adjuvant-treatment, particularly in those at higher risk of 
relapse, lack of extra risk factors for trastuzumab-associated cardiotoxicity, 
and having a prolonged estimated life expectancy. In addition to traditional 
anthracycline-based combinations commonly used in younger women, other options 
are the use of sequential chemotherapy, non-anthracycline containing regimes 
plus anti-HER2 therapies, combinations with hormonotherapy, or even anti-HER2 
agents alone.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2013.04.002
PMID: 23659993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Zhonghua Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Feb 19;93(7):496-9.

[A random control study of indomethacin-containing MYCu intrauterine 
contraceptive device for 60 months].

[Article in Chinese]

Wang LY(1), Li SZ, Wu SY, Zhao YH, Wang Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics & Gynecology, China-Japan Friendship Hospital, Jilin 
University, Changchun 130031, China. wangliyanjdd@163.com

OBJECTIVE: To explore the clinical efficacy and safety of MYCu intrauterine 
contraceptive device (IUD) containing indomethacin.
METHODS: From October 1 to December 31, 2004, women of child-bearing age 
requiring IUD for contraception were chosen from the Outpatient Departments of 
China-Japan Friendship Hospital of Jilin University, Peking University First 
Hospital, Peking University Third Hospital, Jilin University Second Hospital and 
Affiliated Shengjing Hospital of China Medical University. They were randomly 
inserted with MYCuIUD and control TCu380A IUD each for 1000 cases and followed 
up at 1, 3, 6, 12, 24, 36, 48 and 60 months post-insertion.
RESULTS: When MYCu IUD group and TCu380A group 60 months post-insertion were 
compared, the cumulative pregnancy rates with IUD in situ were 2.38/100 women 
per year and 2.84/100 women per year respectively. And the difference had no 
statistical significance (P > 0.05); the cumulative expulsion rates, mostly of 
partial expulsion and downward movement, were 0.87/100 women per year and 
2.94/100 women per year respectively. And the difference had statistical 
significance (P < 0.05); the cumulative termination rates due to bleeding/pain 
were 3.57/100 women per year and 4.83/100 women per year respectively. And the 
difference had no statistical significance (P > 0.05); Side effects in MYCu 
group were less pronounced than those in TCu group. And the inter-group 
differences had statistical significance (P < 0.05).
CONCLUSION: As a comparatively ideal medicated medical device, MYCu IUD has an 
excellent contraceptive efficacy, a low rate of expulsion and side effects and 
good reversibility. Particularly a low occurrence rate of bleeding and pain 
during early insertion is recommended. Its life expectancy is 15 years. And its 
contraceptive effectiveness and safety after 5 years should be examined during 
further follow-ups.

PMID: 23660315 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Ecotoxicology. 2013 Aug;22(6):985-95. doi: 10.1007/s10646-013-1077-6. Epub
2013  May 10.

Linking sub-individual and population level toxicity effects in Daphnia 
schoedleri (Cladocera: Anomopoda) exposed to sublethal concentrations of the 
pesticide α-cypermethrin.

Martínez-Jerónimo F(1), Arzate-Cárdenas M, Ortiz-Butrón R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Hidrobiología Experimental, Escuela Nacional de Ciencias 
Biológicas, Instituto Politécnico Nacional, Carpio y Plan de Ayala S/N, Col. 
Santo Tomás, 11340, Mexico, DF, Mexico. fjeroni@ipn.mx

Synthetic pyrethroids are classified as moderately toxic to mammals and birds; 
nevertheless, they are highly toxic to non-target aquatic organisms such as fish 
and zooplankters. Chemical pollutants produce different effects in exposed 
organisms, ranging from biochemical to population responses. Cladocerans can 
modify the energy content of their offspring according to the surrounding medium 
as a way to improve their odds in case they have to cope with stressful 
conditions at birth. In this study, the effect of a synthetic pesticide on two 
levels of response in a Daphnia species different from those traditionally used 
as test organisms was evaluated. With this aim, Daphnia schoedleri neonates (<24 
h) were exposed for 21 days to three sublethal concentrations of α-cypermethrin, 
0.54, 5.4, and 54 ng L(-1), which correspond to 48-h EC1/100, EC1/10, and EC1, 
respectively. Effects were measured through a life table analysis for fecundity 
and survivorship. For effects on progeny, protein, carbohydrates, and lipids 
were determined and then transformed to caloric content. Biomarkers (BM) were 
expected to be the most sensitive evaluated response; nevertheless, population 
parameters such as survivorship and net reproductive rate (R0) were more 
sensitive since they presented significant differences with respect to controls 
at the lowest tested concentration. Neonates' caloric content varied during the 
reproductive period assessed and was negatively correlated to fecundity: as more 
neonates were born, less energy was provided by the adult females. 
Macromolecules concentration and caloric content values in cypermethrin-exposed 
adults were not different from those recorded in the control at the end of 
exposure time. The results herein presented suggest that stressed daphnids 
allocate more energy reserves to their offspring, although this strategy can 
vary depending on the number of reproductive events during the lifecycle, and on 
the toxicant's concentration. Sub-individual approaches to assess toxicant 
effects should be accompanied by demographic studies, which support population 
effect predictions inferred from BMs assessment.

DOI: 10.1007/s10646-013-1077-6
PMID: 23661095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. BMJ. 2013 May 9;346:f2618. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f2618.

Cost effectiveness of the NHS breast screening programme: life table model.

Pharoah PD(1), Sewell B, Fitzsimmons D, Bennett HS, Pashayan N.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Oncology and Public Health and Primary Care, University of 
Cambridge, Cambridge CB1 8RN, UK.

Erratum in
    BMJ. 2013;346:f3822.

Comment in
    Evid Based Med. 2014 Apr;19(2):80.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the overall cost effectiveness of the NHS breast screening 
programme, based on findings of the Independent UK Panel on Breast Cancer 
Screening and taking into account the uncertainty of associated estimates of 
benefits, harms, and costs.
DESIGN: A life table model comparing data from two cohorts.
SETTING: United Kingdom's health service.
PARTICIPANTS AND INTERVENTIONS: 364,500 women aged 50 years-the population of 50 
year old women in England and Wales who would be eligible for screening-were 
followed up for 35 years without screening, compared with a similar cohort who 
had regular mammographic screening between ages 50 and 70 years and were then 
followed for another 15 years.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Between the cohorts, we compared the number of breast 
cancer diagnoses, number of deaths from breast cancer, number of deaths from 
other causes, person years of survival adjusted for health quality, and person 
years of survival with breast cancer. We also calculated the costs of treating 
primary and end stage breast cancer, and the costs of screening. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis explored the effect of uncertainty in key input parameters 
on the model outputs.
RESULTS: Under the base case scenario (using input parameters derived from the 
Independent Panel Review), there were 1521 fewer deaths from breast cancer and 
2722 overdiagnosed breast cancers. Discounting future costs and benefits at a 
rate of 3.5% resulted in an additional 6907 person years of survival in the 
screened cohort, at a cost of 40,946 additional years of survival after a 
diagnosis of breast cancer. Screening was associated with 2040 additional 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs) at an additional cost of £42.5m (€49.8m; 
$64.7m) in total or £20,800 per QALY gained. The gain in person time survival 
over 35 years was 9.2 days per person and 2.7 quality adjusted days per person 
screened. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that this incremental cost 
effectiveness ratio varied widely across a range of plausible scenarios. 
Screening was cost effective at a threshold of £20,000 per QALY gained in 2260 
(45%) scenarios, but in 588 (12%) scenarios, screening was associated with a 
reduction in QALYs.
CONCLUSION: The NHS breast screening programme is only moderately likely to be 
cost effective at a standard threshold. However, there is substantial 
uncertainty in the model parameter estimates, and further primary research will 
be needed for cost effectiveness studies to provide definitive data to inform 
policy.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f2618
PMCID: PMC3649817
PMID: 23661112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available 
on request from the corresponding author) and declare: no support from any 
organisation for the submitted work; NP is a Cancer Research UK clinician 
scientist fellow; no other financial relationships with any organisations that 
might have an interest in the submitted work in the previous three years; no 
other relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the 
submitted work.


23. Exp Appl Acarol. 2013 Nov;61(3):285-98. doi: 10.1007/s10493-013-9704-8. Epub 
2013 May 10.

Alternating temperatures affect life table parameters of Phytoseiulus 
persimilis, Neoseiulus californicus (Acari: Phytoseiidae) and their prey 
Tetranychus urticae (Acari: Tetranychidae).

Vangansbeke D(1), De Schrijver L, Spranghers T, Audenaert J, Verhoeven R, Nguyen 
DT, Gobin B, Tirry L, De Clercq P.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Agrozoology, Department of Crop Protection, Ghent University, 
Coupure Links 653, 9000, Ghent, Belgium.

Increasing energy costs force glasshouse growers to switch to energy saving 
strategies. In the temperature integration approach, considerable daily 
temperature variations are allowed, which not only have an important influence 
on plant growth but also on the development rate of arthropods in the crop. 
Therefore, we examined the influence of two constant temperature regimes (15 
°C/15 °C and 20 °C/20 °C) and one alternating temperature regime (20 °C/5 °C, 
with an average of 15 °C) on life table parameters of Phytoseiulus persimilis 
and Neoseiulus californicus and their target pest, the two-spotted spider mite 
Tetranychus urticae at a 16:8 (L:D) h photoperiod and 65 ± 5 % RH. For females 
of both predatory mites the alternating temperature regime resulted in a 25-30 % 
shorter developmental time as compared to the corresponding mean constant 
temperature regime of 15 °C/15 °C. The immature development of female spider 
mites was prolonged for 7 days at 15 °C/15 °C as compared to 20 °C/5 °C. With a 
daytime temperature of 20 °C, no differences in lifetime fecundity were observed 
between a nighttime temperature of 20 and 5 °C for P. persimilis and T. urticae. 
The two latter species did show a higher lifetime fecundity at 20 °C/5 °C than 
at 15 °C/15 °C, and their daily fecundity at the alternating regime was about 30 
% higher than at the corresponding mean constant temperature. P. persimilis and 
T. urticae showed no differences in sex ratio between the three temperature 
regimes, whereas the proportion of N. californicus females at 15 °C/15 °C (54.2 
%) was significantly lower than that at 20 °C/5 °C (69.4 %) and 20 °C/20 °C 
(67.2 %). Intrinsic rates of increase were higher at the alternating temperature 
than at the corresponding mean constant temperature for both pest and predators. 
Our results indicate that thermal responses of the studied phytoseiid predators 
to alternating temperature regimes used in energy saving strategies in 
glasshouse crops may have consequences for their efficacy in biological control 
programs.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-013-9704-8
PMID: 23661271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Ghana Med J. 2012 Jun;46(2 Suppl):4-11.

A review of population-based studies on hypertension in Ghana.

Addo J(1), Agyemang C, Smeeth L, de-Graft Aikins A, Edusei AK, Ogedegbe O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Population Health, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London, UK. Juliet.addo@lshtm.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Hypertension is becoming a common health problem worldwide with 
increasing life expectancy and increasing prevalence of risk factors. 
Epidemiological data on hypertension in Ghana is necessary to guide policy and 
develop effective interventions.
METHODS: A review of population-based studies on hypertension in Ghana was 
conducted by a search of the PUBMED database, supplemented by a manual search of 
bibliographies of the identified articles and through the Ghana Medical Journal. 
A single reviewer extracted data using standard data collection forms.
RESULTS: Eleven studies published on hypertension with surveys conducted between 
1973 and 2009 were identified. The prevalence of hypertension was higher in 
urban than rural areas in studies that covered both types of area and increased 
with increasing age (prevalence ranging from 19.3% in rural to 54.6% in urban 
areas). Factors associated with high blood pressure included increasing body 
mass index, increased salt consumption, family history of hypertension and 
excessive alcohol intake. The levels of hypertension detection, treatment and 
control were generally low (control rates ranged from 1.7% to 12.7%).
CONCLUSION: An increased burden of hypertension should be expected in Ghana as 
life expectancy increases and with rapid urbanisation. Without adequate 
detection and control, this will translate into a higher incidence of stroke and 
other adverse health outcomes for which hypertension is an established risk 
factor. Prevention and control of hypertension in Ghana is thus imperative and 
any delays in instituting preventive measures would most likely pose a greater 
challenge on the already overburdened health system.

PMCID: PMC3645150
PMID: 23661811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict Of Interest: None declared


25. Case Rep Oncol Med. 2013;2013:475961. doi: 10.1155/2013/475961. Epub 2013 Apr
4.

Gastric small-cell carcinoma found on esophagogastroduodenoscopy: a case report 
and literature review.

Frances N(1), Zeichner SB, Francavilla M, Cusnir M.

Author information:
(1)Nova Southeastern College of Osteopathic Medicine, 3301 College Avenue, Fort 
Lauderdale, FL 33314, USA.

Introduction. Characterized as an undifferentiated, neuroendocrine tumor arising 
from totipotent stem cells, small-cell carcinoma (SCC) most commonly arises from 
the lung. Extrapulmonary small-cell carcinomas (ESCC) are rare and account for 
only four percent of SCC. Gastric ESCC, more commonly seen in Japanese male 
patients in their seventh decade of life, accounts for approximately 0.1 percent 
of ESCC. Case Presentation. A 75-year-old Hispanic male presented with a several 
week history of worsening epigastric pain with nausea and vomiting. Computer 
tomography (CT) of the abdomen and pelvis showed a large heterogeneous mass 
involving the posterior gastric wall with diffuse extension into the gastric 
cardia. Esophagogastroduodenoscopy (EGD) revealed a large fungating mass in the 
lesser curvature of the stomach. Biopsy of the mass revealed small-cell 
carcinoma of the stomach. The patient was diagnosed with extensive/stage 4 
disease and started on chemoradiation. Discussion. Our case, of a very rare 
condition highlights, the importance of recognizing atypical pathologic 
diagnoses. More research will need to be conducted with GSCC patients in order 
to better characterize disease pathogenesis, genetic mutations, and optimal 
disease management. The hope is to identify biomarkers that will identify 
patients earlier in their disease course when cure is possible.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/475961
PMCID: PMC3638551
PMID: 23662228


26. Pediatr Dermatol. 2013 Nov-Dec;30(6):e223-5. doi: 10.1111/pde.12151. Epub
2013  May 13.

Transporter associated with antigen processing deficiency syndrome: case report 
of an adolescent with chronic perforated granulomatous skin lesions due to TAP2 
mutation.

Konstantinou P(1), Kanariou M, Giliani SC, Pantelidaki A, Kokolakis A, Tosca A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Venerology, University Hospital, Heraklion 
Crete, Greece.

A previously unreported case of transporter associated with antigen processing 
(TAP) deficiency syndrome (with no parental consanguinity) due to a homozygous 
TAP2 mutation is presented. Characteristic nonhealing, chronic, ulcerative 
granulomatous leg lesions combined with recurrent otitis media and sinopulmonary 
infections led to this boy being diagnosed at 15 years old. The role of the 
dermatologist was crucial in making the correct diagnosis and thereby positively 
influencing the quality of life and life expectancy of this boy.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/pde.12151
PMID: 23662797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. J Nutr Gerontol Geriatr. 2013;32(2):85-105. doi:
10.1080/21551197.2013.779622.

Association between dietary quality and mortality in older adults: a review of 
the epidemiological evidence.

Ford DW(1), Jensen GL, Hartman TJ, Wray L, Smiciklas-Wright H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutritional Science, The Pennsylvania State University, 
University Park, PA 16802, USA. Djw5083@psu.edu

The population is aging worldwide. Delayed mortality is associated with an 
increased burden of chronic health conditions, many of which have a dietary 
component. A literature search was conducted to retrieve and review relevant 
articles considering quality of diets in association with mortality in older 
adults aged 60 years and older. In the studies we reviewed, diet quality defined 
using either a priori methods, which characterize dietary patterns based on 
existing dietary guidelines, or a posteriori methods, which define dietary 
patterns through statistical methods met review criteria. Sixteen articles met 
criteria for review. Generally, dietary patterns that demonstrated greater 
adherence to diets that emphasized whole fruits and vegetables, whole grains, 
low-fat dairy, lean meats, and legumes and nuts were inversely associated with 
mortality. However, a priori methods have not yet demonstrated associations 
between diet and mortality in older adults in the United States. Development of 
new methods based on regional variations in dietary intake may offer the best 
approach to assess associations with mortality.

DOI: 10.1080/21551197.2013.779622
PMID: 23663210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. BMC Health Serv Res. 2013 May 10;13:173. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-173.

Economic evaluation of agomelatine relative to other antidepressants for 
treatment of major depressive disorders in Greece.

Maniadakis N(1), Kourlaba G, Mougiakos T, Chatzimanolis I, Jonsson L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Organization & Management, National School of 
Public Health, 196 Alexandras Avenue, Athens 11521, Greece.

BACKGROUND: Major depressive disorder (MDD) constitutes an important public 
health problem, as it is highly prevalent in the industrialized world and it is 
associated with substantial economic consequences for patients, health care 
providers, insurance and social security organizations and employers. To conduct 
an economic evaluation comparing agomelatine with other commonly used 
alternatives for treating patients with major depressive disorder (MDD) in 
Greece.
METHODS: An existing international Markov model designed to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of agomelatine was adapted to the Greek setting. It reflects 
six different health states, in which patients may move on a monthly basis. The 
analysis was undertaken from a societal perspective. Transition probabilities, 
utilities and costs assigned to each health state were extracted from the 
published literature, government sources and expert opinion. Data reflects the 
year 2012 and was discounted using a rate of 3.5%. Probabilistic analysis was 
undertaken to deal with uncertainty.
RESULTS: Base case analyses revealed that agomelatine is a dominant therapy for 
MDD relative to escitalopram, fluoxetine and sertraline, and it appeared to be 
cost-effective compared to venlafaxine (ICER: €547/QALY). Agomelatine remained a 
dominant treatment against generic sertraline and fluoxetine, and it appeared to 
be a cost-effective alternative compared to generic venlafaxine and escitalopram 
(ICER: €1,446/QALY and €3,303/QALY, respectively). Excluding the indirect cost 
from the analysis, agomelatine remained a cost-effective alternative over all 
comparators. In the probabilistic sensitivity analysis agomelatine was dominant 
in 44.5%, 89.6%, 70.6% and 84.6% of simulated samples against branded 
venlafaxine, escitalopram, fluoxetine and sertraline, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The present evaluation indicates that agomelatine is either a 
dominant or a cost-effective alternative relative to branded or generic 
alternatives, in Greece.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-173
PMCID: PMC3654993
PMID: 23663281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2013 May 11;13:36. doi: 10.1186/1471-2261-13-36.

The effect of bosentan on exercise capacity in Fontan patients; rationale and 
design for the TEMPO study.

Hebert A(1), Jensen AS, Idorn L, Sørensen KE, Søndergaard L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Copenhagen University Hospital, Rigshospitalet, 
Blegdamsvej 9, Copenhagen, Denmark. andershebert@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Palliative treatment with the Fontan procedure has greatly improved 
survival for children with functionally univentricular heart. Since Fontan 
performed the first successful operation, the procedure has evolved and is now 
performed as Total Cavo-Pulmonary Connection (TCPC).An increasing prevalence and 
longer life expectancy of TCPC patients have raised new challenges. The 
survivors are often suffering complications such as arrhythmias, myocardial 
dysfunction, thromboembolic events, neuropsychological deficit, protein-losing 
enteropathy and reduced exercise capacity. Several causes for the reduced 
exercise capacity may be present e.g. impaired function of the single ventricle, 
valve dysfunction and chronotropic impairment, and perhaps also increased 
pulmonary vascular resistance. Thus, plasma endothelin-1 has been shown to 
correlate with increased pulmonary vascular resistance and the risk of failing 
Fontan circulation. This has raised the question of the role for pulmonary 
vasodilation therapy, especially endothelin receptor antagonist in the 
management of TCPC patients.
METHODS/DESIGN: The TEMPO trial aims to investigate whether Bosentan, an 
endothelin receptor antagonist, can be administered safely and improve exercise 
capacity in TCPC patients. The trial design is randomized, double-blind and 
placebo-controlled. Bosentan/placebo is administered for 14 weeks with control 
visits every four weeks. The primary endpoint is change in maximal oxygen 
consumption as assessed on bicycle ergometer test. Secondary endpoints include 
changes in pulmonary blood flow during exercise test, pro brain natriuretic 
peptide and quality of life.
DISCUSSION: We hypothesize that treatment with Bosentan, an endothelin receptor 
antagonist, can be administered safely and improve exercise capacity in TCPC 
patients.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2261-13-36
PMCID: PMC3658877
PMID: 23663658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Z Evid Fortbild Qual Gesundhwes. 2013;107(2):148-52. doi: 
10.1016/j.zefq.2013.02.007. Epub 2013 Mar 21.

[Less can be more - drug therapy in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Thürmann PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Lehrstuhl für Klinische Pharmakologie, Universität Witten/Herdecke, Philipp 
Klee-Institut für Klinische Pharmakologie, HELIOS Klinikum Wuppertal, Wuppertal. 
petra.thuermann@helios-kliniken.de

A significant proportion of the elderly population is affected by multimorbidity 
and polypharmacy. Drug safety in this population is characterised by 
age-associated changes in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics, an increased 
risk for drug-drug interactions, an unmanageable situation of side effects and 
co-morbidities, and a questionable adherence to complex therapies. Moreover, 
elderly multimorbid patients are usually not enrolled in clinical trials, and 
therefore the evidence for efficacy and safety of drugs is sparse. Many practice 
guidelines do not consider multimorbidity and age-associated changes in physical 
function, cognition and reduced life expectancy. Most published approaches to 
reducing polypharmacy such as algorithms and checklists have not yet been 
validated prospectively in randomised, controlled trials. However, some studies 
have shown the feasibility of stopping medications, in some cases accompanied by 
remarkable improvements of quality of life. (As supplied by publisher).

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zefq.2013.02.007
PMID: 23663910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Lancet. 2013 May 11;381(9878):1598. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61007-7.

Compassionate release in the USA.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61007-7
PMID: 23663936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Econ Hum Biol. 2014 Mar;13:107-27. doi: 10.1016/j.ehb.2013.04.002. Epub 2013
Apr  12.

The impact of pharmaceutical innovation on longevity and medical expenditure in 
France, 2000-2009.

Lichtenberg FR(1).

Author information:
(1)Columbia University, United States; National Bureau of Economic Research, 
United States. Electronic address: frank.lichtenberg@columbia.edu.

Longitudinal, disease-level data are used to analyze the impact of 
pharmaceutical innovation on longevity (mean age at death) and medical 
expenditure in France during the period 2000-2009. The estimates imply that 
pharmaceutical innovation increased mean age at death by 0.29 years (3.43 
months) during this period-about one-fifth of the total increase in longevity. 
This estimate is smaller than those obtained in previous studies of Germany and 
the U.S., but the rate of adoption of new drugs was lower in France. Longevity 
is much more strongly related to the number of drugs than it is to the number of 
drug classes. Pharmaceutical innovation during 2000-2009 is estimated to have 
increased per capita pharmaceutical expenditure by $125 (26%) in 2009, but most 
(87%) of this increase was offset by a reduction in hospital expenditure. The 
baseline estimate of the cost per life-year gained from pharmaceutical 
innovation in France during 2000-2009 is about $8100. This estimate is fairly 
close to the mean of estimates obtained ($10,800) from U.S., German, and 
Australian studies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ehb.2013.04.002
PMID: 23664114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Endocrinol Nutr. 2013 Dec;60(10):583-9. doi: 10.1016/j.endonu.2013.01.011.
Epub  2013 May 8.

[Diabetes mellitus and depressive disorder, an undesirable association].

[Article in Spanish]

Nicolau J(1), Masmiquel L.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Endocrinología y Nutrición, Hospital Son Llàtzer, Palma de 
Mallorca, España. Electronic address: jnicolauramis@gmail.com.

Type 2 diabetes and depressive disorder are 2 chronic diseases highly prevalent 
in developed countries and with a negative impact on quality of life and life 
expectancy. In recent years, both conditions have been shown to be strongly 
associated. Thus, diabetics have an increased risk of suffering depressive 
disorder, as well as impaired glucose homeostasis, if they experience 
depression. In diabetic patients, concurrent depression is associated to greater 
difficulties in disease management and metabolic control, increased risk of 
developing chronic complications, decreased quality of life, and higher 
healthcare expenses. As a result, the interest of diabetic scientific societies 
in this association has increased, and they recommend regular mood assessment in 
diabetic patients. However, the limited clinical experience available and the 
conflicting results reported to date make it difficult to draw conclusions.

Copyright © 2012 SEEN. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.endonu.2013.01.011
PMID: 23664193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Biochem Biophys Res Commun. 2013 May 31;435(2):182-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.04.088. Epub 2013 May 7.

β-Arrestin 1 mediates non-canonical Wnt pathway to regulate convergent extension 
movements.

Kim GH(1), Park EC, Lee H, Na HJ, Choi SC, Han JK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, Korea Basic Science Institute (KBSI), Daejeon, 
Republic of Korea.

β-Arrestins are multifaceted proteins that play critical roles in termination of 
G protein-coupled receptor (GPCR) signaling by inducing its desensitization and 
internalization as well as in facilitation of many intracellular signaling 
pathways. Here, we examine using Xenopus embryos whether β-arrestin 1 might act 
as a mediator of β-catenin-independent Wnt (non-canonical) signaling. Xenopus 
β-arrestin 1 (xβarr1) is expressed in the tissues undergoing extensive cell 
rearrangements in early development. Gain- and loss-of-function analyses of 
xβarr1 revealed that it regulates convergent extension (CE) movements of 
mesodermal tissue with no effect on cell fate specification. In addition, rescue 
experiments showed that xβarr1 controls CE movements downstream of Wnt11/Fz7 
signal and via activation of RhoA and JNK. In line with this, xβarr1 associated 
with key Wnt components including Ryk, Fz, and Dishevelled. Furthermore, we 
found that xβarr1 could recover CE movements inhibited by xβarr2 knockdown or 
its endocytosis defective mutant. Overall, these results suggest that β-arrestin 
1 and 2 share interchangeable endocytic activity to regulate CE movements 
downstream of the non-canonical Wnt pathway.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbrc.2013.04.088
PMID: 23665017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Wound Care. 2013 Feb;22(2):100-2. doi: 10.12968/jowc.2013.22.2.100.

Back to basics: an introduction to economic evaluation.

Guest JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Catalyst Health Economics Consultants, Northwood, UK. 
julian.guest@catalyst-health.co.uk

DOI: 10.12968/jowc.2013.22.2.100
PMID: 23665666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Curr Opin Urol. 2013 Jul;23(4):372-6. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328361ebea.

Future prospects: who is the patient who still dies of prostate cancer following 
local treatment of high-risk prostate cancer? Can we prolong their lives using 
modern treatment approaches?

Ayres BE(1), Sooriakumaran P.

Author information:
(1)St. George's NHS Trust, London, UK.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Prostate cancer remains the commonest nondermatological cause 
of cancer in Western men and the second leading cause of cancer death in these 
men. While low and intermediate-risk prostate cancers make up the vast bulk of 
prostate cancer diagnoses, it is high-risk prostate cancer that is a much larger 
killer. Management paradigms for such disease are changing and thus we review 
the current state of play with the management of these cancers and what the 
future might hold.
RECENT FINDINGS: High-risk prostate cancer is a heterogeneous beast, with huge 
variations in disease severity. Hence, management of these cases must be 
tailored based on specific risk factors of individual patients, and the role for 
surgery especially in the lower end of the spectrum is increasing.
SUMMARY: The increasing use of radical extirpative surgery might negatively 
impact functional outcomes but are likely to prolong lives of high-risk prostate 
cancer sufferers, though more research from well conducted randomized controlled 
trials is needed to exactly define which patient subpopulations should receive 
which therapies, in which orders, and at what times.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0b013e328361ebea
PMID: 23665741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Bone Marrow Transplant. 2013 Nov;48(11):1421-8. doi: 10.1038/bmt.2013.65.
Epub  2013 May 13.

Prospective qualitative and quantitative non-invasive evaluation of intestinal 
acute GVHD by contrast-enhanced ultrasound sonography.

Benedetti E(1), Bruno B, McDonald GB, Paolicchi A, Caracciolo F, Papineschi F, 
Pelosini M, Campani D, Galimberti S, Petrini M.

Author information:
(1)1] Division of Hematology, S. Chiara Hospital, University of Pisa, Pisa, 
Italy [2] SIUMB Basic Course & Emergency School of Ultrasonography 
(SIUMB-Italian Society of Ultrasound in Medicine and Biology), Pisa, Italy.

Intestinal acute GVHD (I-aGVHD) is a life-threatening complication after 
allografting. Non-invasive bed-side procedures to evaluate extension and 
treatment response are still lacking. We hypothesized that, during I-aGVHD, 
contrast-enhanced ultrasound sonography (CEUS) could detect microcirculation 
changes (MVC) of the bowel wall (BW) and help to monitor treatment response. We 
prospectively employed CEUS in 83 consecutive patients. Of these, 14 patients 
with biopsy-proven intestinal GVHD (I-GVHD) were defined as the study group, 
whereas 16 patients with biopsy-proven stomach GVHD (U-GVHD) without intestinal 
symptoms, 6 normal volunteers and 4 patients with neutropenic enterocolitis were 
defined as the control group. All patients were evaluated with both standard 
ultrasonography (US) and CEUS at the onset of intestinal symptoms, during 
clinical follow-up and at flare of symptoms. Standard US revealed BW thickening 
of multiple intestinal segments, useful to determine the extension of GVHD. CEUS 
showed MVC, which correlated with GVHD activity, treatment response, and 
predicted flare of intestinal symptoms. US and CEUS findings were superimposable 
at diagnosis and in remission. CEUS was, however, more sensitive and specific to 
identify subclinical activity in patients with clinical relevant improvement. 
These findings were not observed in the control groups. CEUS is a non-invasive, 
easily reproducible bed-side tool useful to monitor I-aGVHD.

DOI: 10.1038/bmt.2013.65
PMID: 23665821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Nat Methods. 2013 Jul;10(7):665-70. doi: 10.1038/nmeth.2475. Epub 2013 May
12.

The Caenorhabditis elegans Lifespan Machine.

Stroustrup N(1), Ulmschneider BE, Nash ZM, López-Moyado IF, Apfeld J, Fontana W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Systems Biology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA. nstroustrup@post.harvard.edu

The measurement of lifespan pervades aging research. Because lifespan results 
from complex interactions between genetic, environmental and stochastic factors, 
it varies widely even among isogenic individuals. The actions of molecular 
mechanisms on lifespan are therefore visible only through their statistical 
effects on populations. Indeed, survival assays in Caenorhabditis elegans have 
provided critical insights into evolutionarily conserved determinants of aging. 
To enable the rapid acquisition of survival curves at an arbitrary statistical 
resolution, we developed a scalable imaging and analysis platform to observe 
nematodes over multiple weeks across square meters of agar surface at 8-μm 
resolution. The automated method generates a permanent visual record of 
individual deaths from which survival curves are constructed and validated, 
producing data consistent with results from the manual method of survival curve 
acquisition for several mutants in both standard and stressful environments. Our 
approach permits rapid, detailed reverse-genetic and chemical screens for 
effects on survival and enables quantitative investigations into the statistical 
structure of aging.

DOI: 10.1038/nmeth.2475
PMCID: PMC3865717
PMID: 23666410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. PLoS Med. 2013;10(5):e1001435. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001435. Epub 2013
May  7.

Disability transitions and health expectancies among adults 45 years and older 
in Malawi: a cohort-based model.

Payne CF(1), Mkandawire J, Kohler HP.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Group in Demography, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, United States of America. collinp@sas.upenn.edu

Comment in
    PLoS Med. 2013 May;10(5):e1001441.

BACKGROUND: Falling fertility and increasing life expectancy contribute to a 
growing elderly population in sub-Saharan Africa (SSA); by 2060, persons aged 45 
y and older are projected to be 25% of SSA's population, up from 10% in 2010. 
Aging in SSA is associated with unique challenges because of poverty and 
inadequate social supports. However, despite its importance for understanding 
the consequences of population aging, the evidence about the prevalence of 
disabilities and functional limitations due to poor physical health among older 
adults in SSA continues to be very limited.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Participants came from 2006, 2008, and 2010 waves of the 
Malawi Longitudinal Survey of Families and Health, a study of the rural 
population in Malawi. We investigate how poor physical health results in 
functional limitations that limit the day-to-day activities of individuals in 
domains relevant to this subsistence-agriculture context. These disabilities 
were parameterized based on questions from the SF-12 questionnaire about 
limitations in daily living activities. We estimated age-specific patterns of 
functional limitations and the transitions over time between different 
disability states using a discrete-time hazard model. The estimated transition 
rates were then used to calculate the first (to our knowledge) microdata-based 
health expectancies calculated for SSA. The risks of experiencing functional 
limitations due to poor physical health are high in this population, and the 
onset of disabilities happens early in life. Our analyses show that 45-y-old 
women can expect to spend 58% (95% CI, 55%-64%) of their remaining 28 y of life 
(95% CI, 25.7-33.5) with functional limitations; 45-y-old men can expect to live 
41% (95% CI, 35%-46%) of their remaining 25.4 y (95% CI, 23.3-28.8) with such 
limitations. Disabilities related to functional limitations are shown to have a 
substantial negative effect on individuals' labor activities, and are negatively 
related to subjective well-being.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals in this population experience a lengthy struggle with 
disabling conditions in adulthood, with high probabilities of remitting and 
relapsing between states of functional limitation. Given the strong association 
of disabilities with work efforts and subjective well-being, this research 
suggests that current national health policies and international donor-funded 
health programs in SSA inadequately target the physical health of mature and 
older adults.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001435
PMCID: PMC3646719
PMID: 23667343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


40. Anim Reprod. 2012 Jan 1;9(1):40-51.

Effects of adult onset mild calorie restriction on weight of reproductive 
organs, plasma parameters and gene expression in male mice.

Rocha JS(1), Bonkowski MS, Masternak MM, França LR, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Biology, Laboratory of Structural Biology, Federal 
University of Viçosa, Viçosa, MG, Brazil.

Calorie restriction (CR) extends lifespan and delays onset of age-related 
diseases in various organisms, even when started later in life. Despite benefits 
for health and lifespan, CR's negative impact on reproduction is documented in 
some animals. Studies employing approximately 40% CR detected a delay in sexual 
maturation and impairment of fertility, which were combined with extension of 
the reproductive period. In contrast, mild CR (10-20%) is apparently not 
deleterious to reproduction. Hence, we hypothesized that mild CR started at 8 
months of age would prolong reproductive capabilities and improve health 
parameters of male mice. To test this hypothesis, we assessed the effects of 10 
and 20% CR on reproductive organ weights, selected plasma parameters and 
hepatic/testicular gene expression in normal male mice of heterogeneous genetic 
background. Starting at 8 months of age (adult), mice were assigned to 3 regimen 
groups: 10% CR (n = 8), 20% CR (n = 9) or ad libitum (AL; n = 8). Four months of 
CR were sufficient to reduce glycemia in a non-fasted protocol. Mild CR 
initiated in adulthood did not significantly impact final body weight, most of 
the analyzed plasma parameters or weight of androgen-dependent organs. Moreover, 
CR did not interfere with expression of the assessed testicular genes, or most 
of the hepatic genes, but it did cause an increase in the levels of peroxisome 
