proliferator-activated receptor gamma (Pparg) and mouse sulfotransferase (mSTa); 
and a decrease in glucose-6-phosphatase-α (G6pc) mRNA, which might signify 
improvement of body condition. The important finding of our study was that a 
mild CR regimen, as low as 10 and 20%, was sufficient to impair glycemia in a 
non-fasted state, and also the levels of plasma IGF-1, corroborating the concept 
that mild CR has the potential for improving health and longevity, even when 
started later in life.

PMCID: PMC3649015
PMID: 23667390


41. Lancet. 2013 Mar 23;381(9871):995. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60709-6. Epub
2013  Mar 22.

Life expectancy in the Occupied Palestinian Territory.

Shahin S.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Jul 13;382(9887):126.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2012 Dec 15;380(9859):2144-62.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60709-6
PMID: 23668579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Lancet. 2013 Mar 23;381(9871):997-1020. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60355-4.
Epub  2013 Mar 5.

UK health performance: findings of the Global Burden of Disease Study 2010.

Murray CJ(1), Richards MA, Newton JN, Fenton KA, Anderson HR, Atkinson C, 
Bennett D, Bernabé E, Blencowe H, Bourne R, Braithwaite T, Brayne C, Bruce NG, 
Brugha TS, Burney P, Dherani M, Dolk H, Edmond K, Ezzati M, Flaxman AD, Fleming 
TD, Freedman G, Gunnell D, Hay RJ, Hutchings SJ, Ohno SL, Lozano R, Lyons RA, 
Marcenes W, Naghavi M, Newton CR, Pearce N, Pope D, Rushton L, Salomon JA, 
Shibuya K, Vos T, Wang H, Williams HC, Woolf AD, Lopez AD, Davis A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA. cjlm@uw.edu

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Mar 23;381(9871):970-2.

BACKGROUND: The UK has had universal free health care and public health 
programmes for more than six decades. Several policy initiatives and structural 
reforms of the health system have been undertaken. Health expenditure has 
increased substantially since 1990, albeit from relatively low levels compared 
with other countries. We used data from the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, 
and Risk Factors Study 2010 (GBD 2010) to examine the patterns of health loss in 
the UK, the leading preventable risks that explain some of these patterns, and 
how UK outcomes compare with a set of comparable countries in the European Union 
and elsewhere in 1990 and 2010.
METHODS: We used results of GBD 2010 for 1990 and 2010 for the UK and 18 other 
comparator nations (the original 15 members of the European Union, Australia, 
Canada, Norway, and the USA; henceforth EU15+). We present analyses of trends 
and relative performance for mortality, causes of death, years of life lost 
(YLLs), years lived with disability (YLDs), disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALYs), and healthy life expectancy (HALE). We present results for 259 diseases 
and injuries and for 67 risk factors or clusters of risk factors relevant to the 
UK. We assessed the UK's rank for age-standardised YLLs and DALYs for their 
leading causes compared with EU15+ in 1990 and 2010. We estimated 95% 
uncertainty intervals (UIs) for all measures.
FINDINGS: For both mortality and disability, overall health has improved 
substantially in absolute terms in the UK from 1990 to 2010. Life expectancy in 
the UK increased by 4·2 years (95% UI 4·2-4·3) from 1990 to 2010. However, the 
UK performed significantly worse than the EU15+ for age-standardised death 
rates, age-standardised YLL rates, and life expectancy in 1990, and its relative 
position had worsened by 2010. Although in most age groups, there have been 
reductions in age-specific mortality, for men aged 30-34 years, mortality rates 
have hardly changed (reduction of 3·7%, 95% UI 2·7-4·9). In terms of premature 
mortality, worsening ranks are most notable for men and women aged 20-54 years. 
For all age groups, the contributions of Alzheimer's disease (increase of 137%, 
16-277), cirrhosis (65%, ?15 to 107), and drug use disorders (577%, 71-942) to 
premature mortality rose from 1990 to 2010. In 2010, compared with EU15+, the UK 
had significantly lower rates of age-standardised YLLs for road injury, 
diabetes, liver cancer, and chronic kidney disease, but significantly greater 
rates for ischaemic heart disease, chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, lower 
respiratory infections, breast cancer, other cardiovascular and circulatory 
disorders, oesophageal cancer, preterm birth complications, congenital 
anomalies, and aortic aneurysm. Because YLDs per person by age and sex have not 
changed substantially from 1990 to 2010 but age-specific mortality has been 
falling, the importance of chronic disability is rising. The major causes of 
YLDs in 2010 were mental and behavioural disorders (including substance abuse; 
21·5% [95 UI 17·2-26·3] of YLDs), and musculoskeletal disorders (30·5% 
[25·5-35·7]). The leading risk factor in the UK was tobacco (11·8% [10·5-13·3] 
of DALYs), followed by increased blood pressure (9·0 % [7·5-10·5]), and high 
body-mass index (8·6% [7·4-9·8]). Diet and physical inactivity accounted for 
14·3% (95% UI 12·8-15·9) of UK DALYs in 2010.
INTERPRETATION: The performance of the UK in terms of premature mortality is 
persistently and significantly below the mean of EU15+ and requires additional 
concerted action. Further progress in premature mortality from several major 
causes, such as cardiovascular diseases and cancers, will probably require 
improved public health, prevention, early intervention, and treatment 
activities. The growing burden of disability, particularly from mental 
disorders, substance use, musculoskeletal disorders, and falls deserves an 
integrated and strategic response.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60355-4
PMID: 23668584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. Chest. 2013 Sep;144(3):999-1007. doi: 10.1378/chest.13-0062.

Impact of age and comorbidity on cause and outcome in community-acquired 
pneumonia.

Cillóniz C(1), Polverino E(1), Ewig S(2), Aliberti S(3), Gabarrús A(1), Menéndez 
R(4), Mensa J(5), Blasi F(6), Torres A(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Diseases, Institut del Tórax, Hospital Clinic of 
Barcelona, IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica En Red-Enfermedades Respiratorias (CibeRes, 
CB06/06/0028) Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Thoraxzentrum Ruhrgebiet, Kliniken für Pneumologie und Infektiologie, EVK 
Herne und Augusta-Kranken-Anstalt, Bochum, Germany.
(3)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Prevenzione, University of Milan-Bicocca, 
San Gerardo Hospital, Monza, Italy.
(4)Centro de Investigación Biomédica En Red-Enfermedades Respiratorias (CibeRes, 
CB06/06/0028) Barcelona, Spain; Department of Respiratory Diseases, Hospital La 
Fe de Valencia, CibeRes, Valencia, Spain.
(5)Department of Infectious Disease, Hospital Clinic of Barcelona, IDIBAPS, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Respiratory Medicine Section, Dipartimento Toraco-Polmonare e 
Cardiocircolatorio, University of Milan, IRCCS Fondazione Ca' Granda Ospedale 
Maggiore, Milan, Italy.
(7)Department of Respiratory Diseases, Institut del Tórax, Hospital Clinic of 
Barcelona, IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain; Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica En Red-Enfermedades Respiratorias (CibeRes, 
CB06/06/0028) Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: atorres@clinic.ub.es.

Comment in
    Chest. 2013 Dec;144(6):1975-6.
    Chest. 2013 Dec;144(6):1976.

BACKGROUND: Prolonged life expectancy has currently increased the proportion of 
the very elderly among patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP). The aim 
of this study was to determine the influence of age and comorbidity on microbial 
patterns in patients over 65 years of age with CAP.
METHODS: This study was a prospective observational study of adult patients with 
CAP (excluding those in nursing homes) over a 12-year period. We compared 
patients aged 65 to 74 years, 75 to 84 years, and > 85 years for potential 
differences in clinical presentation, comorbidities, severity on admission, 
microbial investigations, causes, antimicrobial treatment, and outcomes.
RESULTS: We studied a total of 2,149 patients: 759 patients (35.3%) aged 65 to 
74 years, 941 patients (43.7%) aged 75 to 84 years, and 449 patients (20.8%) 
aged > 85 years. At least one comorbidity was present in 1,710 patients (79.6%). 
Streptococcus pneumoniae was the most frequent pathogen in all age groups, 
regardless of comorbidity. Staphylococcus aureus, Enterobacteriaceae, and 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa accounted for 9.1% of isolates, and Haemophilus 
influenzae, 6.4%. All these pathogens were isolated only in patients with at 
least one comorbidity. Mortality increased with age (65-74 years, 6.9%; 75-84 
years, 8.9%; > 85 years, 17.1%; P < .001) and was associated with increased 
comorbidities (neurologic; OR, 2.1; 95% CI, 1.5-2.1), Pneumonia Severity Index 
IV or V (OR, 3.2; 95% CI, 1.8-6.0), bacteremia (OR, 1.7; 95% CI, 1.1-2.7), the 
presence of a potential multidrug-resistant (MDR) pathogen (S. aureus, P. 
aeruginosa, Enterobacteriaceae; OR, 2.4; 95% CI, 1.3-4.3), and ICU admission 
(OR, 4.2; 95% CI, 2.9-6.1) on multivariate analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Age does not influence microbial cause itself, whereas 
comorbidities are associated with specific causes such as H. influenzae and 
potential MDR pathogens. Mortality in the elderly is mainly driven by the 
presence of comorbidities and potential MDR pathogens.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.13-0062
PMID: 23670047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Cien Saude Colet. 2013 May;18(5):1283-92. doi:
10.1590/s1413-81232013000500013.

[Violence in old age: the issue addressed in indexed national journals].

[Article in Portuguese]

de Castro AP(1), Guilam MC, Sousa ES, Marcondes WB.

Author information:
(1)Conselho de Educação, Pesquisa e Extensão, Universidade Federal de Campina 
Grande, Campina Grande, PB, 58109-900. anubes@ensp.fiocruz.br

One of the consequences of increased life expectancy is the increase in the 
elderly population in many countries, including Brazil. Considering the 
vulnerability of this age group and the increasing prevalence of violence 
against the elderly, there is a pressing need for research and control 
interventions to minimize the phenomenon. This exploratory and descriptive 
article conducts an analysis into this topic in indexed Brazilian studies in 
SciELO, with special emphasis on the last five years. The themes were 
categorized into: Social construction and conceptualizations, 37.5%; Elderly 
Care and Protection Policies, 43.75%; and Typology of violence against the 
elderly, 18.75%. The results show that the Policy of protection of the elderly 
permeates the majority of discussions about violence in old age and the focus of 
the researchers' attention is on domestic violence, which needs to be broadened 
in field research.

DOI: 10.1590/s1413-81232013000500013
PMID: 23670456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Exp Appl Acarol. 2013 Nov;61(3):259-83. doi: 10.1007/s10493-013-9700-z. Epub 
2013 May 14.

Suitability of different pollen as alternative food for the predatory mite 
Amblyseius swirskii (Acari, Phytoseiidae).

Goleva I(1), Zebitz CP.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Phytomedicine, University of Hohenheim, 70593, Stuttgart, 
Germany, irgoleva@uni-hohenheim.de.

The predacious mite Amblyseius swirskii Athias-Henriot is used as a biological 
control agent against various pests in greenhouses. Pollen offered as 
supplementary food is reported to improve their fast establishment and 
performance. However, the nutritional suitability of different pollens for A. 
swirskii is not sufficiently known yet. Pollens of 21 plant species were offered 
to the mites as exclusive food during preimaginal development. Preimaginal 
mortality and developmental time have been assessed, followed by a life-table 
analysis of the emerged adults and a calculation of demographic parameters. 
Amblyseius swirskii can feed exclusively on pollen, but the nutritional value of 
the pollens differed significantly. Pollens of Lilium martagon and Hippeastrum 
sp. were toxic, causing 100 % preimaginal mortality, probably due to secondary 
plant compounds. Hibiscus syriacus pollen was absolutely incompatible for the 
juvenile and adult mites, possibly due to their external morphology, differing 
from all the other pollens tested and leading to 100 % preimaginal mortality 
also. Considering all parameters, feeding on Aesculus hippocastanum, Crocus 
vernus, Echinocereus sp. and Paulownia tomentosa pollens lead to the best 
performance of the mites. Feeding on most pollens resulted in no or low 
preimaginal mortality of A. swirskii, but affected significantly developmental 
time, adult longevity, and reproduction parameters. Commercial bee pollen was 
not able to improve life-table parameters compared to pure pollen of the plant 
species. Pollens of Helianthus annuus, Corylus avellana and a Poaceae mix were 
less suitable as food source and resulted in a poor performance of all tested 
parameters. Compared with literature data, 18 pollens tested proved to be a 
similar or better food source than cattail pollen, qualifying A. swirskii as a 
positively omnivorous type IV species. Pollens of Ricinus communis and Zea mays 
can be recommended as supplementary food offered as banker plants, and A. 
hippocastanum and Betula pendula pollen is recommended to be used as dispersible 
pollen in greenhouses.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-013-9700-z
PMID: 23670826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Can Urol Assoc J. 2013 Jan-Feb;7(1-2):35-8. doi: 10.5489/cuaj.212.

The incidence of prostate cancer and urothelial cancer in the prostate in 
cystoprostatectomy specimens in a tertiary care Canadian centre.

Sivalingam S(1), Drachenberg D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB.

Comment in
    Can Urol Assoc J. 7(1-2):39.

INTRODUCTION: Radical cystoprostatectomy remains the gold standard treatment for 
muscle invasive bladder cancer. However, given the treatment related 
complications of compromised potency and continence with this procedure, 
prostate/sexuality sparing cystectomy in orthotopic neobladder candidates has 
emerged in an effort to minimize these quality of life concerns. Recent evidence 
suggests only a marginal functional benefit from these technical refinements. We 
sought to determine the incidence of occult prostate cancer and urothelial 
cancer of the prostate in cystoprostatectomy specimens conducted for muscle 
invasive bladder cancer.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed 83 male patients who underwent radical 
cystoprostatectomy for muscle invasive bladder cancer between April 2004 and 
March 2007. The median age of our study group was 71 years. Pathologic findings 
of prostate/urothelial cancer in the prostate were identified. Clinically 
significant prostate cancer was defined as Gleason score >6, tumour volume 
>0.5cc, extracapsular extension or perineural invasion.
RESULTS: Our review yielded a 30% (±10%, 0.95 CI) rate of prostate cancer, with 
19% (± 8.5%, 0.95 CI) of total specimens being positive for clinically 
significant prostate cancer. Urothelial cancer in the prostate was identified in 
16% (±8.5%, 0.95 CI) of patients, with an overlap with prostate cancer in 2 
patients. The overall rate of an underlying cancer within the prostate of our 
cystoprostatectomy specimens was about 46% (±10.7%, 0.95 CI).
CONCLUSION: These findings suggest that the oncological risk of leaving behind 
residual cancer may not justify the practice of prostate-sparing cystectomies.

DOI: 10.5489/cuaj.212
PMCID: PMC3650820
PMID: 23671490


47. Can Urol Assoc J. 2013 Jan-Feb;7(1-2):41-5. doi: 10.5489/cuaj.216.

Evaluating potential live-renal donors: Causes for rejection, deferral and 
planned procedure type, a single-centre experience.

Perlis N(1), Connelly M, D'A Honey JR, Pace KT, Stewart R.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, St. Michael's Hospital, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON.

Comment in
    Can Urol Assoc J. 7(1-2):46.

BACKGROUND: Renal transplantation is the preferred therapy to extend life 
expectancy and quality of life for patients with chronic kidney disease. There 
are many barriers in the process of live kidney donation that prevent the timely 
progression from organ requirement to transplantation, including the progression 
of the live donor through a medical evaluation. We assess how easily patients 
complete the donor workup, how often the medical evaluation identifies 
significant incidental findings, and which surgical procedure is planned for 
organ retrieval.
METHODS: We reviewed our donor database and the minutes from our 
multidisciplinary rounds from 2002 to 2008 to assess how medical, radiological 
and psychological findings were used to decide on the candidacy of potential 
donors.
RESULTS: Half (50.2%) of patients did not pass the initial health screen. Of the 
467 patients who progressed beyond the health screen to the computed tomographic 
angiogram evaluation, 48 (10.3%) were excluded as donors and 419 (89.7%) were 
accepted. Of those accepted, 136 (32.5%) were conditional on further medical 
workup. Of the patients accepted (n=419), 375 (89.5%) were planned for 
laparoscopic left-sided approach.
CONCLUSIONS: The vast majority of patients who passed the initial health screen 
for kidney donation will be accepted as donors, but about one-third will require 
further workup. It is rare to identify life-threatening disease on screening 
computerized tomographic angiograph for kidney donor workup.

DOI: 10.5489/cuaj.216
PMCID: PMC3650809
PMID: 23671492


48. J Clin Med Res. 2013 Jun;5(3):205-16. doi: 10.4021/jocmr1137w. Epub 2013 Apr
23.

The effect of whole body vibration exposure on muscle function in children with 
cystic fibrosis: a pilot efficacy trial.

O'Keefe K(1), Orr R, Huang P, Selvadurai H, Cooper P, Munns CF, Singh MA.

Author information:
(1)Exercise, Health and Performance, Faculty Research Group, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of Sydney, Australia.

BACKGROUND: To examine the effects of whole body vibration (WBV) exposure on 
muscle function in children with Cystic Fibrosis (CF). Non-randomised controlled 
cross-over trial.
METHODS: The setting was home-based WBV exposure. The participants were children 
(8 - 15 years) with CF (n = 7).
INTERVENTION: participants served as their own controls for the first four weeks 
(usual care), then underwent four weeks of parentally-supervised home-based WBV 
exposure followed by four weeks washout (usual care). The WBV exposure consisted 
of 20 - 30 minutes of intermittent (1 min vibration:1 min rest) exposure on a 
Galileo platform (20 - 22Hz, 1 mm amplitude) 3 days/week. The primary outcome 
measures of absolute and relative lower body (leg extension (LE), leg press 
(LP)), upper body (chess press (CP)) strength and power, and power were measured 
at baseline, and weeks 4, 8 and 12. Secondary exploratory outcomes were 
cardiorespiratory fitness, pulmonary function and health-related quality of 
life.
RESULTS: Six participants completed the training without adverse events. Muscle 
function changes following WBV exposure were not statistically significant. 
However, moderate-to-large relative effect sizes (ES) favouring WBV were evident 
for leg extension strength (ES = 0.66 (-0.50, 1.82)), LP relative strength (ES = 
0.92 (-0.27, 2.11)), leg press peak power (ES = 0.78 (-0.50, 2.07)) and CMJ 
height (ES = 0.60 (-0.56 to 1.76)).
CONCLUSIONS: The results from this first controlled trial indicate that WBV may 
be a potentially effective exercise modality to safely increase leg strength and 
explosive power in children with CF. Potentially clinically relevant changes 
support continued investigation of the efficacy, mechanism and feasibility of 
this intervention in future large-scale studies.

DOI: 10.4021/jocmr1137w
PMCID: PMC3651071
PMID: 23671546


49. PLoS One. 2013 May 6;8(5):e62709. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062709. Print
2013.

Placing a price on medical device innovation: the example of total knee 
arthroplasty.

Suter LG(1), Paltiel AD, Rome BN, Solomon DH, Thornhill TS, Abrams SK, Katz JN, 
Losina E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut, 
United States of America. lisa.suter@yale.edu

BACKGROUND: Total knee arthroplasty (TKA) is common, effective, and 
cost-effective. Innovative implants promising reduced long-term failure at 
increased cost are under continual development. We sought to define the implant 
cost and performance thresholds under which innovative TKA implants are 
cost-effective.
METHODS: We performed a cost-effectiveness analysis using a validated, published 
computer simulation model of knee osteoarthritis. Model inputs were derived 
using published literature, Medicare claims, and National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey data. We compared projected TKA implant survival, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE), lifetime costs, and cost-effectiveness 
(incremental cost-effectiveness ratios or ICERs) of standard versus innovative 
TKA implants. We assumed innovative implants offered 5-70% decreased long-term 
TKA failure rates at costs 20-400% increased above standard implants. We 
examined the impact of patient age, comorbidity, and potential increases in 
short-term failure on innovative implant cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Implants offering ≥50% decrease in long-term TKA failure at ≤50% 
increased cost offered ICERs <$100,000 regardless of age or baseline 
comorbidity. An implant offering a 20% decrease in long-term failure at 50% 
increased cost provided ICERs <$150,000 per QALY gained only among healthy 
50-59-year-olds. Increasing short-term failure, consistent with recent device 
failures, reduced cost-effectiveness across all groups. Increasing the baseline 
likelihood of long-term TKA failure among younger, healthier and more active 
individuals further enhanced innovative implant cost-effectiveness among younger 
patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Innovative implants must decrease actual TKA failure, not just 
radiographic wear, by 50-55% or more over standard implants to be broadly 
cost-effective. Comorbidity and remaining life span significantly affect 
innovative implant cost-effectiveness and should be considered in the 
development, approval and implementation of novel technologies, particularly in 
orthopedics. Model-based evaluations such as this offer valuable, unique 
insights for evaluating technological innovation in medical devices.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0062709
PMCID: PMC3646021
PMID: 23671626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have read the 
journal’s policy and have the following conflicts. Among the authors, only Dr. 
Thornhill has potential conflicts of interest, having received consultancy fees 
and royalties from DePuy and owning stock in Conformis SAB. However, these 
financial activities were not in remuneration for his involvement on this paper 
and were independent of the current work. None of the other authors have any 
additional disclosures or conflicts. This does not alter the authors’ adherence 
to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


50. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2013 Jun;13(3):371-80. doi: 
10.1586/erp.13.22. Epub 2013 May 15.

Cost-effectiveness of a FISH assay for the diagnosis of melanoma in the USA.

Kansal AR(1), Shaul AJ, Stern S, Busam K, Doucet CA, Chalfin DB.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corp., Modeling and Simulation, Bethesda, MD, USA. 
anuraag.kansal@unitedbiosource.com

OBJECTIVE: The authors evaluated the cost-effectiveness of a FISH assay in 
melanoma diagnosis in the USA.
METHOD: A model was developed simulating the addition of FISH to the diagnosis 
of suspected melanoma. A decision analytic module simulated diagnosis using 
microscopic assessment alone versus addition of FISH (sensitivity: 92%; 
specificity: 94%). The authors simulated a clinical setting in which an initial 
excisional biopsy microscopic assessment (sensitivity: 73%; specificity: 78%) 
was followed by dermatopathologist assessment (sensitivity: 89%; specificity: 
79%) for inconclusive results. Diagnostic strategies 1 and 2 added FISH to the 
initial and dermatopathologist assessments, respectively. A Markov outcomes 
module simulated patients' remaining lifetime, including treatment.
RESULTS: In diagnostic strategies 1 and 2, the cost per quality-adjusted life 
year gained was US$14,930 and 43,925, respectively, versus no FISH. Cost per 
misdiagnosis avoided was US$3292 and 3759, respectively. Sensitivity and 
specificity without FISH were both ≥88%; however, addition of FISH exceeded 
US$100,000/quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSION: In specific clinical settings, FISH could be cost effective for 
melanoma diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.13.22
PMID: 23672374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. Haemophilia. 2013 Sep;19(5):e282-8. doi: 10.1111/hae.12166. Epub 2013 May 15.

Estimating unknown parameters in haemophilia using expert judgement elicitation.

Fischer K(1), Lewandowski D, Janssen MP.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical 
Center, Utrecht, The Netherlands. k.fischer@umcutrecht.nl

The increasing attention to healthcare costs and treatment efficiency has led to 
an increasing demand for quantitative data concerning patient and treatment 
characteristics in haemophilia. However, most of these data are difficult to 
obtain. The aim of this study was to use expert judgement elicitation (EJE) to 
estimate currently unavailable key parameters for treatment models in severe 
haemophilia A. Using a formal expert elicitation procedure, 19 international 
experts provided information on (i) natural bleeding frequency according to age 
and onset of bleeding, (ii) treatment of bleeds, (iii) time needed to control 
bleeding after starting secondary prophylaxis, (iv) dose requirements for 
secondary prophylaxis according to onset of bleeding, and (v) life-expectancy. 
For each parameter experts provided their quantitative estimates (median, P10, 
P90), which were combined using a graphical method. In addition, information was 
obtained concerning key decision parameters of haemophilia treatment. There was 
most agreement between experts regarding bleeding frequencies for patients 
treated on demand with an average onset of joint bleeding (1.7 years): median 12 
joint bleeds per year (95% confidence interval 0.9-36) for patients ≤ 18, and 11 
(0.8-61) for adult patients. Less agreement was observed concerning estimated 
effective dose for secondary prophylaxis in adults: median 2000 IU every other 
day The majority (63%) of experts expected that a single minor joint bleed could 
cause irreversible damage, and would accept up to three minor joint bleeds or 
one trauma related joint bleed annually on prophylaxis. Expert judgement 
elicitation allowed structured capturing of quantitative expert estimates. It 
generated novel data to be used in computer modelling, clinical care, and trial 
design.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12166
PMID: 23672712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


52. Health Technol Assess. 2013 May;17(19):1-88, v-vi. doi: 10.3310/hta17190.

The diagnostic utility and cost-effectiveness of selective nerve root blocks in 
patients considered for lumbar decompression surgery: a systematic review and 
economic model.

Beynon R(1), Hawkins J, Laing R, Higgins N, Whiting P, Jameson C, Sterne JA, 
Vergara P, Hollingworth W.

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.

BACKGROUND: Diagnostic selective nerve root block (SNRB) involves injection of 
local anaesthetic, sometimes in conjunction with corticosteroids, around spinal 
nerves. It is used to identify symptomatic nerve roots in patients with probable 
radicular pain that is not fully concordant with imaging findings.
OBJECTIVES: (1) Determine the diagnostic accuracy of SNRB in patients with low 
back and radiating pain in a lower limb; (2) evaluate whether or not accuracy 
varies by patient subgroups; (3) review injection-related adverse events; and 
(4) evaluate the cost-effectiveness of SNRB.
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE, Science Citation Index, Bioscience Information 
Service (BIOSIS), Latin American and Caribbean Health Sciences Literature 
(LILACS) and grey literature databases were searched from inception to August 
2011. Reference lists of included studies were screened.
METHODS: A systematic review (SR) of studies that assessed the accuracy of SNRB 
or adverse events in patients with low back pain and symptoms in a lower limb 
for the diagnosis of lumbar radiculopathy. Study quality was assessed using the 
quality assessment of diagnostic accuracy studies (QUADAS)-2 checklist. We used 
random-effects meta-analysis to pool diagnostic accuracy data. Decision tree and 
Markov models were developed, combining SR results with information on the costs 
and outcomes of surgical and non-surgical care. Uncertainty was assessed using 
probabilistic and deterministic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Five studies assessed diagnostic accuracy: three diagnostic cohort and 
two within-patient case-control studies. All were judged to be at high risk of 
bias and had high concerns regarding applicability. In individual studies, 
sensitivity ranged from 57% [95% confidence interval (CI) 43% to 70%] to 100% 
(95% CI 76% to 100%) and specificity from 9.5% (95% CI 1% to 30%) to 86% (95% CI 
76% to 93%). The most reliable estimate was judged to come from two cohort 
studies that used post-surgery outcome as the reference standard; summary 
sensitivity and specificity were 93% (95% CI 86% to 97%) and 26% (95% CI 5% to 
68%), respectively. No study provided sufficient detail to judge whether or not 
accuracy varied by patient subgroup. Seven studies assessed adverse events. 
There were no major or permanent complications; minor complications were 
reported in 0-6% of patients. The addition of SNRB to the diagnostic work-up was 
not cost-effective with an incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year of 
£1,576,007. Sensitivity analyses confirmed that SNRB was unlikely to be a 
cost-effective method for diagnosis and planning surgical therapy.
LIMITATIONS: We identified very few studies; all were at high risk of bias. The 
conduct and interpretation of SNRBs varied and there was no gold standard for 
diagnosis. Limited information about the impact of SNRB on subsequent care and 
the long-term costs and benefits of surgery increased uncertainty about 
cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: There were few studies that estimated the diagnostic accuracy of 
SNRB in patients with radiculopathy and all were limited by the difficulty of 
making a reference standard diagnosis. Summary estimates suggest that 
specificity is low, but results are based on a small number of studies at a high 
risk of bias. Based on current weak evidence, it is unlikely that SNRB is a 
cost-effective method for identifying the symptomatic nerve root prior to lumbar 
spine surgery. Future research should focus on randomised controlled trials to 
evaluate whether or not SNRB improves patient outcomes at acceptable cost.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17190
PMCID: PMC4781400
PMID: 23673151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Neurobiol Aging. 2013 Oct;34(10):2370-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.04.015. Epub 2013 May 11.

Endolysosome involvement in HIV-1 transactivator protein-induced neuronal 
amyloid beta production.

Chen X(1), Hui L, Geiger NH, Haughey NJ, Geiger JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Physiology and Therapeutics, School of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, University of North Dakota, Grand Forks, ND, USA. 
xuesong.chen@med.und.edu

The increased life expectancy of people living with HIV-1/AIDS is accompanied by 
increased prevalence of HIV-1-associated neurocognitive disorder. As well, these 
individuals are increasingly experiencing Alzheimer's disease (AD)-like 
neurocognitive problems and neuropathological features such as increased 
deposition of amyloid beta (Aβ) protein. Findings that Aβ production occurs 
largely in endolysosomes, that HIV-1 transactivator protein (Tat) disrupts 
endolysosome function-an early pathological feature of AD-and that HIV-1 Tat can 
increase Aβ levels prompted us to test the hypothesis that endolysosome 
dysfunction is associated with HIV-1 Tat-induced increases in neuronal Aβ 
generation. Using primary cultured rat hippocampal neurons, we found that 
treatment with HIV-1 Tat caused such morphological changes as enlargement of 
endolysosomes identified with LysoTracker dye and such functional changes as 
elevated endolysosome pH measured ratiometrically with LysoSensor dye. The HIV-1 
Tat-induced changes in endolysosome function preceded temporally HIV-1 
Tat-induced increases in Aβ generation measured using enzyme-linked 
immunosorbent assay. In addition, we demonstrated that HIV-1 Tat increased 
endolysosome accumulation of Aβ precursor protein and Aβ identified using 
immunostaining with 4G8 antibodies. Furthermore, we demonstrated that treatment 
of neurons with HIV-1 Tat increased endolysosome accumulation of beta 
amyloid-converting enzyme, the rate-limiting enzymatic step for Aβ production, 
and enhanced beta amyloid-converting enzyme activity. Together, our findings 
suggest that HIV-1 Tat increases neuronal Aβ generation and thereby contributes 
to the development of AD-like pathology in HIV-1-infected individuals by 
disturbing endolysosome structure and function.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neurobiolaging.2013.04.015
PMCID: PMC3706576
PMID: 23673310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no current or potential 
conflicts of interest to report. Disclosure statement The authors have no 
current or potential conflicts of interest to report.


54. Ann Surg. 2014 Apr;259(4):670-6. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e318295fef8.

A systematic review of economic evaluations of enhanced recovery pathways for 
colorectal surgery.

Lee L(1), Li C, Landry T, Latimer E, Carli F, Fried GM, Feldman LS.

Author information:
(1)*Steinberg-Bernstein Centre for Minimally Invasive Surgery and Innovation, 
McGill University Health Centre †Montreal General Hospital Medical Library, 
McGill University Health Centre ‡Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and 
Occupational Health, McGill University §Department of Psychiatry, Douglas 
Institute ¶Department of Anesthesia, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.

Comment in
    Ann Surg. 2015 May;261(5):e138.
    Ann Surg. 2015 May;261(5):e138-9.

OBJECTIVE: To perform a systematic review of economic evaluations of enhanced 
recovery pathways (ERP) for colorectal surgery.
BACKGROUND: Although there is extensive literature investigating the clinical 
effectiveness of ERP, little is known regarding its cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: A systematic literature search identified all relevant articles 
published between 1997 and 2012 that performed an economic evaluation of ERP for 
colorectal surgery. Studies were included only if their ERP included all 5 of 
the key components (patient information, preservation of GI function, 
minimization of organ dysfunction, active pain control, and promotion of patient 
autonomy). Quality assessment was performed using the Consensus on Health 
Economic Criteria instrument (scored 0-19; high quality ≥ 12). Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated if sufficient data were provided, 
using difference in length of stay and overall complication rates as 
effectiveness measures.
RESULTS: Of a total of 263 unique records identified (253 from databases and 10 
from other sources), 10 studies met our inclusion criteria and were included for 
full qualitative synthesis. Overall quality was poor (mean quality 7.8). Eight 
reported lower costs for ERP. The majority (8 of 10) of studies were performed 
from an institutional perspective and therefore did not include costs related to 
changes in productivity and other indirect costs (eg, caregiver burden). Five 
studies provided enough information to calculate ICERs, of which ERP was 
dominant (less costly and more effective) in all cases for reduction in length 
of stay and was dominant or potentially cost-effective in 4 and questionable (no 
difference in costs nor effectiveness) in 1 for reduction in overall 
complications.
CONCLUSIONS: The quality of the current evidence is limited but tends to support 
the cost-effectiveness of ERP. There is need for well-designed trials to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of ERP from both the institutional and societal 
perspectives.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e318295fef8
PMID: 23673770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. BMJ. 2013 May 14;346:f2969. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f2969.

Premature death among people with mental illness.

Thornicroft G.

Erratum in
    BMJ. 2013;346:f3423.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2013;346:f3721.

Comment on
    BMJ. 2013;346:f2539.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f2969
PMID: 23674141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Diabetes Educ. 2013 Jul-Aug;39(4):515-22. doi: 10.1177/0145721713487259. Epub
 2013 May 14.

Population management of diabetes in a high-need urban community in the Bronx: 
the experience of Montefiore Medical Center.

Farrell P(1), Barnaby S(1), Galarza T(1), Simonson JK(2), Zonszein J(3), Meara 
A(1), Chung H(1), Figueira R(1), Felleman S(1).

Author information:
(1)Montefiore CMO, Yonkers, NY (Ms Farrell, Ms Barnaby, Ms Galarza, Ms Figueira, 
Ms Felleman, Ms Meara, Dr Chung)
(2)Pfizer Inc, Medical Affairs, Sunnyside, NY (Dr Simonson)
(3)Clinical Diabetes Center, Bronx, NY (Dr Zonszein)

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study is to examine the impact of a Care Management 
Organization (CMO) Diabetes Disease Management Program (DDMP) in improving 
diabetes outcomes among high-risk patients with type 2 diabetes (T2DM) in the 
Bronx, New York.
METHODS: An interventional, nonrandomized study design was used to assess the 
effectiveness of the DDMP. Patients older than 18 years who had T2DM and an A1C 
persistently 8% or greater or with a cardiovascular comorbidity were 
characterized as high risk and received intensive disease management. Patients 
served as their own controls, with data collection and analysis occurring 12 
months prior to and 12 months after enrollment in DDMP. Data collection included 
screening rates for A1C, low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol, depression, 
smoking status, and annual influenza vaccine administration. Changes in A1C and 
LDL cholesterol were also analyzed. Statistical analyses were conducted using 
Minitab. McNemar's chi-square and paired t tests were used to assess 
within-group changes from baseline to final outcomes.
RESULTS: Significant improvements in screening rates for A1C, LDL, depression, 
smoking status, and annual influenza vaccine administration were found among 
high-risk/intensively managed patients in the DDMP. Improvements in clinical 
measures were also achieved in this group. Provider and patient satisfaction 
surveys were positive, with 92% of patients believing that the program helped 
them better understand their disease.
CONCLUSIONS: A DDMP among high-risk patients has shown promise in improving the 
quality of care for patients with diabetes. This program has relevance for other 
integrated delivery systems that are developing accountable care approaches.

DOI: 10.1177/0145721713487259
PMID: 23674374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Int J Biomed Sci. 2006 Dec;2(4):402-5.

Lifespan extension by the antioxidant curcumin in Drosophila melanogaster.

Suckow BK(1), Suckow MA.

Author information:
(1)400 Freimann Life Science Center, University of Notre Dame, Notre Dame, IN 
46556, USA.

The interest in health benefits associated with consumption of anti-oxidants has 
led to investigations examining the possibility that diets rich in anti-oxidants 
promote lifespan extension. Studies using the standard fruit fly (Drosophila 
melanogaster) model of longevity have shown that the antioxidants vitamin E and 
N-acetyl cysteine prolong lifespan. Turmeric is a spice which has been consumed 
and used for medicinal purposes for many centuries in Asia. Interestingly, 
turmeric contains the powerful antioxidant, curcumin. To test the hypothesis 
that dietary curcumin prolongs lifespan, groups of 30 male D. melanogaster were 
cultured on media containing 1) no additive; 2) 0.5 mg of curcumin/gram of 
media; 3) 1.0 mg of curumin/gram of media; 4) 1.0μg of the superoxide dismutase 
inhibitor, disulfiram/gram of media; 5) 10 g of disulfiram/gram of media; 6) 0.5 
mg curcumin and 1.0 g disulfiram/ gram of media; 7) 1.0 mg curcumin and 1.0 g 
disulfiram/ gram of media; 8) 0.5 mg curcumin and 10 g disulfiram/gram of media; 
or 9) 1.0 mg curcumin and 10 g disulfiram/gram of media. The number of live 
fruitflies was noted daily and mean lifespan determined for each treatment 
group. A significant (P≤0.05) increase in mean lifespan was noted only for the 
fruitflies maintained on 1.0 mg of curcumin/gram of media; this effect was 
reversed by addition of disulfiram. These results demonstrate that dietary 
curcumin prolongs lifespan and that this effect is associated with enhanced 
superoxide dismutase activity.

PMCID: PMC3614642
PMID: 23675008


58. QJM. 2013 Aug;106(8):703-7. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hct114. Epub 2013 May 15.

What is Connected Health and why will it change your practice?

Caulfield BM(1), Donnelly SC.

Author information:
(1)INSIGHT Centre, University College Dublin, Belfield, Dublin 4, Ireland. 
b.caulfield@ucd.ie

As a society we have to re-imagine our health and social care models to meet the 
challenge of an ageing population with greater levels of chronic disease. The 
digital revolution offers us the potential to leverage technological innovations 
to develop proactive 'connected' health and social care models that are built 
around the patient's needs to facilitate efficient management of wellness and 
health throughout their lifespan. However, efforts to utilize technological 
innovations for this purpose have not been universally successful to date, 
indicating that technology itself is only part of the solution. To achieve a 
truly connected, technology enabled, health and social care model we need to 
overcome some key challenges; first, we need to optimize the process of sensing 
data from end users in the home and community such that monitoring protocols are 
built around the person and designed with respect to their needs to provide for 
accurate and reliable harvesting of target data. We then need to gather and mine 
large datasets from the home and community to analyse the complex relationships 
between home and community acquired data and health status. Only then can we 
begin to design, implement and evaluate new models of care that leverage 
technology platforms. In meeting this challenge we can leverage technology to 
transform the way in which we promote and manage wellness and health throughout 
the lifespan.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hct114
PMID: 23676416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Arch Esp Urol. 2013 May;66(4):342-9.

Outcome of radical prostatectomy in patients meeting criteria for active 
surveillance.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Dellavedova T(1), Ponzano RM, Sarria JP, Minuzzi PG, Nobile RH, Minuzzi FG.

Author information:
(1)Fundación Urológica Córdoba para Docencia e Investigación Médica, Córdoba, 
Argentina. trisdellavedova@hotmail.com

OBJECTIVES: Advances in diagnosis of prostate cancer (PCa)have led to an 
increased detection of these tumors, some of them with low-risk of progression, 
with the consequent risk of overdiagnosis and overt treatment. In consequence, 
there is a tendency to offer alternatives to active therapy, like active 
surveillance (AS)however, some patients under AS need definitive therapy and 
after surgery it becomes evident that they are not "low-risk" patients. We 
retrospectively reviewed the data of patients who met criteria for low-risk 
tumors treated with radical prostatectomy.
METHODS: We selected 21 out of 190 patients treated with radical prostatectomy 
from January 2004 to December 2008 who met Epstein's criteria for low-risk 
tumors. We analyzed the number of organ-confined tumors,Gleason undergrading and 
understaging by biopsy, surgical margins and postoperative PSA.
RESULTS: Mean age was 58.6 years; mean PSA was 6.6 ng/ml, predominant Gleason 
score was 6 (3+3), 76%were unilateral tumors and 90%were organ-confined, 10% had 
extracapsular extension, none had involvement of the seminal % vesicles, 15% of 
the patients had Gleason score >6 and surgical margins were positive in 30% of 
the specimens. Eighty five percent had their first postoperative PSA <0.10 ng/ml 
and 75% remain free of biochemical recurrence. According to the Johns Hopkins 
criteria for "incurable tumors ", our cohort had 28%.
CONCLUSION: Patients with low-risk prostate cancer include cases that may have 
greater risk than estimated. In our series, we had 10% extracapsular disease, 
15% understaging for Gleason score and 25% biochemical recurrence, which 
demonstrates that current criteria do not warrant good oncological results. 
Active surveillance offers good quality of life and acceptable oncological 
results, it can be proposed until definitive therapy, without seriously 
endangering the patient. Anyway, as a therapeutic tool, it still requires 
improvements. Technical advances are awaited so as to properly assess each 
patient's risk and to define the best therapeutic option for every case.

PMID: 23676537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Internist (Berl). 2013 Jun;54(6):715-25. doi: 10.1007/s00108-013-3277-9.

[Update carotid artery stenosis].

[Article in German]

Halbritter K(1), Weiss N.

Author information:
(1)UniversitätsGefässCentrum und Medizinische Klinik III, Bereich Angiologie, 
Universitätsklinikum Carl Gustav Carus, Technische Universität Dresden, 
Fetscherstr. 74, 01307, Dresden, Deutschland.

Stenosis of the extracranial carotid artery is a treatable cause of ischemic 
stroke and can reliably be detected and graded by vascular ultrasound. The 
differentiation between symptomatic and asymptomatic stenosis, the perioperative 
risk and the estimated life expectancy of the patient guide the therapy. Therapy 
is based on an optimal treatment of cardiovascular risk factors and antiplatelet 
drugs. Revascularization using surgical carotid endarterectomy is efficient for 
the prevention of stroke in patients with a high grade symptomatic stenosis. 
Endovascular therapy using stent-protected angioplasty of the carotid artery is 
an alternative in patients with a higher surgical risk with low complication 
rates when performed in experienced centres. Patients with asymptomatic carotid 
artery stenosis are primarily treated conservatively and revascularization is 
indicated in patients with a low surgical and global cardiovascular risk.

DOI: 10.1007/s00108-013-3277-9
PMID: 23677565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. Sci Transl Med. 2013 May 15;5(185):185ps8. doi: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3005624.

The gracefully aging immune system.

Boraschi D(1), Aguado MT, Dutel C, Goronzy J, Louis J, Grubeck-Loebenstein B, 
Rappuoli R, Del Giudice G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Technologies, National Research Council, Pisa 56124, 
Italy.

Prolonged life expectancy in the 20th century has been one of humankind's 
greatest triumphs. However, the substantial increase in the human life span has 
ushered in a new concern: healthy aging. Because infectious diseases prominently 
contribute to morbidity in the particularly vulnerable elderly population, 
strategies for preventing these diseases would have a clear impact on improving 
healthy aging. Thus, vaccines and immunization strategies tailored for the 
elderly population are needed, and vaccines should be developed to take into 
consideration the peculiar age-induced variations of immune responsiveness. The 
conference "Ageing and Immunity" recently held in Siena, Italy, has reviewed and 
discussed several possible causes of immune senescence, as well as strategies 
for counteracting this waning of immune responsiveness and for restoring 
immunocompetence. In addition, examples of diseases that should be targeted by 
vaccination in the senior population were considered.

DOI: 10.1126/scitranslmed.3005624
PMID: 23677590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. J Neurooncol. 2013 Aug;114(1):93-100. doi: 10.1007/s11060-013-1153-z. Epub
2013  May 16.

Cognitive rehabilitation for early post-surgery inpatients affected by primary 
brain tumor: a randomized, controlled trial.

Zucchella C(1), Capone A, Codella V, De Nunzio AM, Vecchione C, Sandrini G, Pace 
A, Pierelli F, Bartolo M.

Author information:
(1)Neurorehabilitation Unit, IRCCS Neurological Mediterranean Institute 
NEUROMED, Via Atinense 18, 86077, Pozzilli, Isernia, Italy.

Cognitive impairment is one of the most common neurological disorders in 
neuro-oncological patients and exerts a deep negative impact on quality of life 
interfering with familiar, social and career-related activities. To test the 
effectiveness of early cognitive rehabilitation treatment for inpatients 
affected by primary brain tumors. Out of 109 consecutive patients enrolled in 
the study, 58 patients were randomly assigned to a rehabilitation group or to a 
control group. The rehabilitation consisted of 16 one-hour individual sessions 
of therapist-guided cognitive training, spread over 4 weeks, combining computer 
exercises and metacognitive training. Patients in the control group received 
usual care without cognitive training. All patients were evaluated by means of a 
comprehensive neuropsychological battery at the admission (T0) and after 4 weeks 
(T1). Patients in the rehabilitation group showed a significant improvement of 
cognitive functions. In particular, the domains that benefited most from the 
training were visual attention and verbal memory. The control group exhibited 
only a slightly, not statistically relevant, enhancement of cognitive 
performances. Cognitive rehabilitation for neuro-oncological inpatients resulted 
in a significant enhancement of cognitive performances after the training, also 
providing a foundation for early administration. Future research should be aimed 
to clarify the patients' characteristics that predict neuropsychological 
improvement, to identify the most effective elements in rehabilitative programs 
and to study the effects of treatment extension to everyday life.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-013-1153-z
PMID: 23677749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Mater Sociomed. 2012;24(4):262-7. doi: 10.5455/msm.2012.24.262-267.

Inadequacy the health system in serbia and corrupt institutions.

Dickov V(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of health management, Novi Sad, Serbia.

Rapid changes in the health system require a new trained professionals who fully 
understand the processes of health and organizational problems and have the 
knowledge and skills that enable them to manage health care services. Health 
services to their largely rests on a system of solidarity and "socialism", and 
only partly on market principle, and more than in other sectors of the economy 
requires individuals who are able to bridge that gap. Realize savings in the 
system that one side is not profitable, on the other hand is able to swallow a 
huge media arts is that simply needs to learn-just relying on common sense and 
intuition that no longer helps. The increase in costs. Advances in medicine and 
technology, and discovery of new drugs, namely, the almost daily increase the 
costs of diagnosis and treatment. Advances in medicine prolongs life expectancy 
by increasing the number of patients, especially those with chronic diseases, 
the biggest consumer of drugs and frequent guests hospital.

DOI: 10.5455/msm.2012.24.262-267
PMCID: PMC3633383
PMID: 23678330


64. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2012 May;13(5 Suppl 1):12S-17S.

[Risk factors for heart failure in women: diabetes].

[Article in Italian]

Russo G(1), Cherubini A, Faganello G, Candido R, Di Lenarda A.

Author information:
(1)Centro Cardiovascolare, Azienda per i Servizi Sanitari n. 1, Trieste.

Diabetes mellitus has become increasingly prevalent in recent years, the most 
dramatic increase being observed in younger women. Diabetes is a multiplier of 
cardiovascular risk and decreases life expectancy more in women than in men. 
Diabetic women are less likely to achieve therapeutic targets for cardiovascular 
risk factors and to be optimally treated. They present more often with atypical 
symptoms that cause delays in timely recognition and management of 
