Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Danish Aging Research Center, University of 
Southern Denmark, Odense C, Denmark. rjacobsen@health.sdu.dk

PURPOSE: In Utah, the prevalence of unhealthy male risk behaviors are lower than 
in most other male populations, whereas women experience higher mortality risk 
because of higher fertility rates. Therefore, we hypothesize that the Utah sex 
differential in mortality would be small and less than in Sweden and Denmark.
METHODS: Life tables from Utah, Denmark, and Sweden were used to calculate 
cohort life expectancies for men and women born in 1850-1910.
RESULTS: The sex difference in cohort life expectancy was similar or larger in 
Utah when compared with Denmark and Sweden. The change over time in the sex 
differences in cohort life expectancy was approximately 2 years smaller for 
active Mormons in Utah than for other groups suggesting lifestyle as an 
important component for the overall change seen in cohort life expectancy. Sex 
differences in cohort life expectancy at the age of 50 years were similar for 
individuals actively affiliated with the Church of Jesus Christ of Latter-day 
Saints and for Denmark and Sweden.
CONCLUSIONS: The hypothesis that a smaller sex difference in cohort life 
expectancies in Utah would be detected in relation to Denmark and Sweden was not 
supported. In Utah, the male-female differences in life expectancy remain 
substantial pointing toward biological mechanisms or other unmeasured risk 
factors.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2013.02.001
PMCID: PMC3651922
PMID: 23453386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. Sci Total Environ. 2013 Apr 1;449:390-400. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2013.01.077.  Epub 2013 Feb 26.

Assessing the public health impacts of urban air pollution in 25 European 
cities: results of the Aphekom project.

Pascal M(1), Corso M, Chanel O, Declercq C, Badaloni C, Cesaroni G, Henschel S, 
Meister K, Haluza D, Martin-Olmedo P, Medina S; Aphekom group.

Author information:
(1)Institut de Veille Sanitaire, Saint Maurice, France. m.pascal@invs.sante.fr

INTRODUCTION: The Aphekom project aimed to provide new, clear, and meaningful 
information on the health effects of air pollution in Europe. Among others, it 
assessed the health and monetary benefits of reducing short and long-term 
exposure to particulate matter (PM) and ozone in 25 European cities.
METHOD: Health impact assessments were performed using routine health and air 
quality data, and a common methodology. Two scenarios were considered: a 
decrease of the air pollutant levels by a fixed amount and a decrease to the 
World Health Organization (WHO) air quality guidelines. Results were 
economically valued by using a willingness to pay approach for mortality and a 
cost of illness approach for morbidity.
RESULTS: In the 25 cities, the largest health burden was attributable to the 
impacts of chronic exposure to PM2.5. Complying with the WHO guideline of 10 
μg/m(3) in annual mean would add up to 22 months of life expectancy at age 30, 
depending on the city, corresponding to a total of 19,000 deaths delayed. The 
associated monetary gain would total some €31 billion annually, including 
savings on health expenditures, absenteeism and intangible costs such as 
well-being, life expectancy and quality of life.
CONCLUSION: European citizens are still exposed to concentrations exceeding the 
WHO recommendations. Aphekom provided robust estimates confirming that reducing 
urban air pollution would result in significant health and monetary gains in 
Europe. This work is particularly relevant now when the current EU legislation 
is being revised for an update in 2013.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2013.01.077
PMID: 23454700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Exp Gerontol. 2013 Oct;48(10):1030-42. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.02.021.
Epub  2013 Feb 27.

Regulation of longevity and oxidative stress by nutritional interventions: role 
of methionine restriction.

Sanchez-Roman I(1), Barja G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Physiology-II, Faculty of Biological Sciences, 
Complutense University of Madrid (UCM), Spain.

Comparative studies indicate that long-lived mammals have low rates of 
mitochondrial reactive oxygen species production (mtROSp) and oxidative damage 
in their mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA). Dietary restriction (DR), around 40%, 
extends the mean and maximum life span of a wide range of species and lowers 
mtROSp and oxidative damage to mtDNA, which supports the mitochondrial free 
radical theory of aging (MFRTA). Regarding the dietary factor responsible for 
the life extension effect of DR, neither carbohydrate nor lipid restriction 
seems to modify maximum longevity. However protein restriction (PR) and 
methionine restriction (at least 80% MetR) increase maximum lifespan in rats and 
mice. Interestingly, only 7weeks of 40% PR (at least in liver) or 40% MetR (in 
all the studied organs, heart, brain, liver or kidney) is enough to decrease 
mtROSp and oxidative damage to mtDNA in rats, whereas neither carbohydrate nor 
lipid restriction changes these parameters. In addition, old rats also conserve 
the capacity to respond to 7weeks of 40% MetR with these beneficial changes. 
Most importantly, 40% MetR, differing from what happens during both 40% DR and 
80% MetR, does not decrease growth rate and body size of rats. All the available 
studies suggest that the decrease in methionine ingestion that occurs during DR 
is responsible for part of the aging-delaying effect of this intervention likely 
through the decrease of mtROSp and ensuing DNA damage that it exerts. We 
conclude that lowering mtROS generation is a conserved mechanism, shared by 
long-lived species and dietary, protein, and methionine restricted animals, that 
decreases damage to macromolecules situated near the complex I mtROS generator, 
especially mtDNA. This would decrease the accumulation rate of somatic mutations 
in mtDNA and maybe finally also in nuclear DNA.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.02.021
PMID: 23454735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Aging (Albany NY). 2013 Feb;5(2):100-10. doi: 10.18632/aging.100533.

Rapamycin extends life span of Rb1+/- mice by inhibiting neuroendocrine tumors.

Livi CB(1), Hardman RL, Christy BA, Dodds SG, Jones D, Williams C, Strong R, 
Bokov A, Javors MA, Ikeno Y, Hubbard G, Hasty P, Sharp ZD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Institute of Biotechnology, University 
of Texas Health Science Center, San Antonio, TX 78229, USA.

Chronic treatment of mice with an enterically released formulation of rapamycin 
(eRapa) extends median and maximum life span, partly by attenuating cancer. The 
mechanistic basis of this response is not known. To gain a better understanding 
of thesein vivo effects, we used a defined preclinical model of neuroendocrine 
cancer, Rb1+/- mice. Previous results showed that diet restriction (DR) had 
minimal or no effect on the lifespan of Rb1+/- mice, suggesting that the 
beneficial response to DR is dependent on pRb1. Since long-term eRapa treatment 
may at least partially mimic chronic DR in lifespan extension, we predicted that 
it would have a minimal effect in Rb1+/- mice. Beginning at 9 weeks of age until 
death, we fed Rb1+/- mice a diet without or with eRapa at 14 mg/kg food, which 
results in an approximate dose of 2.24 mg/kg body weight per day, and yielded 
rapamycin blood levels of about 4 ng/ml. Surprisingly, we found that eRapa 
dramatically extended life span of both female and male Rb1+/- mice, and slowed 
the appearance and growth of pituitary and decreased the incidence of thyroid 
tumors commonly observed in these mice. In this model, eRapa appears to act 
differently than DR, suggesting diverse mechanisms of action on survival and 
anti-tumor effects. In particular the beneficial effects of rapamycin did not 
depend on the dose of Rb1.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100533
PMCID: PMC3616197
PMID: 23454836 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: ZDS and RS were unpaid consultants to Rapamycin 
Holdings, Inc. Other authors declare no conflicts.


422. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2013 
Mar;56(3):339-48. doi: 10.1007/s00103-012-1614-0.

[Perspectives of work, age, health, and labor market participation in Germany].

[Article in German]

Hasselhorn HM(1), Rauch A.

Author information:
(1)Bundesanstalt für Arbeitsschutz und Arbeitsmedizin, BAuA, Nöldnerstrasse 
40-42, Berlin, Germany. hasselhorn.hans-martin@baua.bund.de

The German population is aging and shrinking. This will have a significant 
impact on the labor market, because labor supply will start to shrink. 
Consequently, there is a need to develop additional labor market resources. In 
this setting, a crucial issue is the health and employment of the older working 
population. This article discusses--on the basis of nine articles in this 
special issue--the health of the working population in the context of work, age, 
and labor participation. It shows the diversity of morbidity in the work force 
in general and particularly in older age, and it identifies older labor force 
groups with good health and those with bad health. The latter shows that 
"working while having a bad state of health" is today's reality. Labor market 
participation is less dependent on health than on the "work ability" and/or the 
"motivation to work" of older workers. The employment dynamics of an aging 
population will be a key issue in future political debate. A reliable knowledge 
base is needed for proper discussion, judgment, and action in the economic, 
political, and social fields. Current research is often focused on subtopics or 
on subgroups; however, a network of all the related scientific disciplines and 
the establishment of new comprehensive research approaches are needed in this 
area.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-012-1614-0
PMID: 23455551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Lifetime Data Anal. 2013 Jul;19(3):393-411. doi: 10.1007/s10985-013-9250-z.
Epub  2013 Mar 2.

Neyman, Markov processes and survival analysis.

Yang G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 20742, 
USA. gly@math.umd.edu

Erratum in
    Lifetime Data Anal. 2013 Jul;19(3):412.

J. Neyman used stochastic processes extensively in his applied work. One example 
is the Fix and Neyman (F-N) competing risks model (1951) that uses finite 
homogeneous Markov processes to analyse clinical trials with breast cancer 
patients. We revisit the F-N model, and compare it with the Kaplan-Meier (K-M) 
formulation for right censored data. The comparison offers a way to generalize 
the K-M formulation to include risks of recovery and relapses in the calculation 
of a patient's survival probability. The generalization is to extend the F-N 
model to a nonhomogeneous Markov process. Closed-form solutions of the survival 
probability are available in special cases of the nonhomogeneous processes, like 
the popular multiple decrement model (including the K-M model) and Chiang's 
staging model, but these models do not consider recovery and relapses while the 
F-N model does. An analysis of sero-epidemiology current status data with 
recurrent events is illustrated. Fix and Neyman used Neyman's RBAN (regular best 
asymptotic normal) estimates for the risks, and provided a numerical example 
showing the importance of considering both the survival probability and the 
length of time of a patient living a normal life in the evaluation of clinical 
trials. The said extension would result in a complicated model and it is 
unlikely to find analytical closed-form solutions for survival analysis. With 
ever increasing computing power, numerical methods offer a viable way of 
investigating the problem.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-013-9250-z
PMID: 23456282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Cardiovasc Intervent Radiol. 2013 Dec;36(6):1591-1601. doi: 
10.1007/s00270-013-0584-4. Epub 2013 Mar 2.

An assessment of radiologically inserted transoral and transgastric 
gastroduodenal stents to treat malignant gastric outlet obstruction.

Miller BHT(1), Griffiths EA(2), Pursnani KG(1), Ward JB(1), Stockwell RC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Upper Gastrointestinal Surgery, Lancashire Teaching Hospitals 
NHS Foundation Trust, Royal Preston Hospital, Sharoe Green Lane, Preston, PR2 
9HT, UK.
(2)Department of Upper Gastrointestinal Surgery, The New Queen Elizabeth 
Hospital, Mindelsohn Way, Birmingham, B15 2TH, UK.
(3)Department of Radiology, Lancashire Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Chorley and South Ribble Hospital, Chorley, PR7 1PP, UK. 
Robert.Stockwell@lthtr.nhs.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Self-expanding metallic stents (SEMS) are used to palliate 
malignant gastric outlet obstruction (GOO) and are useful in patients with 
limited life expectancy or severe medical comorbidity, which would preclude 
surgery. Stenting can be performed transorally or by a percutaneous transgastric 
technique. Our goal was to review the outcome of patients who underwent 
radiological SEMS insertion performed by a single consultant interventional 
radiologist.
METHODS: Patients were identified from a prospectively collected database held 
by one consultant radiologist. Data were retrieved from radiological reports, 
multidisciplinary team meetings, and the patients' case notes. Univariate 
survival analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Between December 2000 and January 2011, 100 patients (63 males, 37 
females) had 110 gastroduodenal stenting procedures. Median age was 73 (range 
39-89) years. SEMS were inserted transorally (n = 66) or transgastrically (n = 
44). Site of obstruction was the stomach (n = 37), duodenum (n = 50), gastric 
pull-up (n = 10), or gastroenterostomy (n = 13). Seven patients required biliary 
stents. Technical success was 86.4 %: 83.3 % for transoral insertion, 90.9 % for 
transgastric insertion. Eleven patients developed complications. Median GOO 
severity score: 1 pre-stenting, 2 post-stenting (p = 0.0001). Median survival 
was 54 (range 1-624) days. Post-stenting GOO severity score was predictive of 
survival (p = 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: The technical success rate for insertion of palliative SEMS is 
high. Insertional technique can be tailored to the individual depending on the 
location of the tumor and whether it is possible to access the stomach 
percutaneously. Patients who have successful stenting and return to eating a 
soft/normal diet have a statistically significant increase in survival.

DOI: 10.1007/s00270-013-0584-4
PMID: 23456310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Lifetime Data Anal. 2014 Apr;20(2):276-302. doi: 10.1007/s10985-013-9248-6.
Epub  2013 Mar 3.

Estimation in a competing risks proportional hazards model under length-biased 
sampling with censoring.

Dauxois JY(1), Guilloux A, Kirmani SN.

Author information:
(1)Université de Toulouse-INSA, IMT, UMR CNRS 5219, 135, Avenue de Rangueil, 
31077 , Toulouse cedex 4, France, jean-yves.dauxois@insa-toulouse.fr.

What population does the sample represent? The answer to this question is of 
crucial importance when estimating a survivor function in duration studies. As 
is well-known, in a stationary population, survival data obtained from a 
cross-sectional sample taken from the population at time t(0) represents not the 
target density f (t) but its length-biased version proportional to t f (t), for 
t > 0. The problem of estimating survivor function from such length-biased 
samples becomes more complex, and interesting, in presence of competing risks 
and censoring. This paper lays out a sampling scheme related to a mixed Poisson 
process and develops nonparametric estimators of the survivor function of the 
target population assuming that the two independent competing risks have 
proportional hazards. Two cases are considered: with and without independent 
censoring before length biased sampling. In each case, the weak convergence of 
the process generated by the proposed estimator is proved. A well-known study of 
the duration in power for political leaders is used to illustrate our results. 
Finally, a simulation study is carried out in order to assess the finite sample 
behaviour of our estimators.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-013-9248-6
PMID: 23456312 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Med Decis Making. 2013 May;33(4):544-6. doi: 10.1177/0272989X12475093. Epub
2013  Mar 3.

A note on the expected biases in conventional iterative health state valuation 
protocols.

Ternent L(1), Tsuchiya A(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Society, Newcastle University, UK (LT)
(2)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK (AT).

BACKGROUND: Typical health state valuation exercises use tradeoff methods, such 
as the time tradeoff or the standard gamble, involving a series of iterated 
questions so that a value for each health state by each individual respondent is 
elicited. This iterative process is a source of potential biases, but this has 
not received much attention in the health state valuation literature. The issue 
has been researched widely in the contingent valuation (CV) literature, which 
elicits the monetary value of hypothetical outcomes.
METHODS: The lessons learned in the CV literature are revisited in the context 
of the design and administration of health state valuations. The article 
introduces the main known biases in the CV literature and then examines how each 
might affect conventional iterative health state valuations.
RESULTS: Of the 8 main types of biases, starting point bias, range bias, and 
incentive incompatibility bias are found to be potentially relevant. 
Furthermore, the magnitude and direction of the bases are unlikely to be uniform 
and depend on the range of the value (e.g., between 0 and 0.5). Limitation. This 
is an overview article, and the conclusions drawn need to be tested empirically.
CONCLUSIONS: Health state valuation studies, like CV studies, are susceptible to 
a number of possible biases that affect the resulting values. Their magnitude 
and direction are unlikely to be uniform, and thus empirical studies are needed 
to diagnose the problem and, if necessary, to address it.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X12475093
PMID: 23457024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e54435. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054435. Epub 2013 Feb
15.

The potential cost and benefits of raltegravir in simplified second-line therapy 
among HIV infected patients in Nigeria and South Africa.

Schneider K(1), Nwizu C, Kaplan R, Anderson J, Wilson DP, Emery S, Cooper DA, 
Boyd MA.

Author information:
(1)The Kirby Institute for Infection and Immunity in Society, University of New 
South Wales, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. KSchneider@kirby.unsw.edu.au

BACKGROUND: There is an urgent need to improve the evidence base for provision 
of second-line antiretroviral therapy (ART) following first-line virological 
failure. This is particularly the case in Sub-Saharan Africa where 70% of all 
people living with HIV/AIDS (PHA) reside. The aim of this study was to simulate 
the potential risks and benefits of treatment simplification in second-line 
therapy compared to the current standard of care (SOC) in a lower-middle income 
and an upper-middle income country in Sub-Saharan Africa.
METHODS: We developed a microsimulation model to compare outcomes associated 
with reducing treatment discontinuations between current SOC for second-line 
therapy in South Africa and Nigeria and an alternative regimen: 
ritonavir-boosted lopinavir (LPV/r) combined with raltegravir (RAL). We used 
published studies and collaborating sites to estimate efficacy, adverse effect 
and cost. Model outcomes were reported as incremental cost effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) in 2011 USD per quality adjusted life year ($/QALY) gained.
RESULTS: Reducing treatment discontinuations with LPV/r+RAL resulted in an 
additional 0.4 discounted QALYs and increased the undiscounted life expectancy 
by 0.8 years per person compared to the current SOC. The average incremental 
cost was $6,525 per treated patient in Nigeria and $4,409 per treated patient in 
South Africa. The cost-effectiveness ratios were $16,302/QALY gained and 
$11,085/QALY gained for Nigeria and South Africa, respectively. Our results were 
sensitive to the probability of ART discontinuation and the unit cost for RAL.
CONCLUSIONS: The combination of raltegravir and ritonavir-boosted lopinavir was 
projected to be cost-effective in South Africa. However, at its current price, 
it is unlikely to be cost-effective in Nigeria.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0054435
PMCID: PMC3574122
PMID: 23457450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: J.A. is currently serving 
as a medical director for ViiV. M.A.B has received honoraria for services 
provided to Abbott, Boehringer-Ingelheim, Bristol Myers Squibb, Gilead, Janssen 
and Merck. K.S. is currently serving as a consultant for the pharmaceutical 
industry. All other authors have no reported conflict. This does not alter the 
authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


428. PLoS One. 2013;8(2):e56425. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056425. Epub 2013 Feb
15.

Month of birth and mortality in Sweden: a nation-wide population-based cohort 
study.

Ueda P(1), Edstedt Bonamy AK, Granath F, Cnattingius S.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Department of Medicine, Solna, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden. peter.ueda@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Month of birth--an indicator for a variety of prenatal and early 
postnatal exposures--has been associated with life expectancy in adulthood. On 
the northern hemisphere, people born in the autumn live longer than those born 
during the spring. Only one study has followed a population longitudinally and 
no study has investigated the relation between month of birth and mortality risk 
below 50 years.
METHODS AND RESULTS: In this nation-wide Swedish study, we included 6,194,745 
subjects, using data from population-based health and administrative registries. 
The relation between month of birth (January-December) and mortality risk was 
assessed by fitting Cox proportional hazard regression models using attained age 
as the underlying time scale. Analyses were made for ages >30, >30 to 50, >50 to 
80 and >80 years. Month of birth was a significant predictor of mortality in the 
age-spans >30, >50 to 80, and >80 years. In models adjusted for gender and 
education for ages >30 and >50 to 80 years, the lowest mortality was seen for 
people born in November and the highest mortality in those born in the 
spring/summer, peaking in May for mortality >30 years (25‰ excess hazard ratio 
compared to November, [95% confidence interval = 16-34 ]) and in April for 
mortality >50 to 80 years (42‰ excess hazard ratio compared to November, [95% 
confidence interval = 30-55]). In the ages >80 years the pattern was similar but 
the differences in mortality between birth months were smaller. For mortality 
within the age-span >30 to 50 years, results were inconclusive.
CONCLUSION: Month of birth is associated to risk of mortality in ages above 50 
years in Sweden. Further studies should aim at clarifying the mechanisms behind 
this association.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0056425
PMCID: PMC3574007
PMID: 23457566 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


429. Cent Afr J Med. 2010 May-Aug;56(5-8):23-6.

Bilateral HIV related ocular surface squamous neoplasia: a paradigm shift.

Masanganise R(1), Mukome A, Dari J, Makunike-Mutasa R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Zimbabwe College of Health Sciences, 
P.O. Box A 178, Avondale, Harare, Zimbabwe. drmasanganise@tamen.co.zw

Four patients with bilateral ocular surface squamous neoplasia attended to at 
Sekuru Kaguvi Hospital Eye Unit are being presented to alert practitioners that 
OSSN is potentially a bilateral disease and its prevalence is likely to increase 
as the life expectancy of HIV infected patients is being positively affected by 
antiretroviral therapy. Reports on ocular diseases should be clear on laterality 
to avoid confusion between number of patients affected and number of eyes 
involved since the two cannot be used interchangeably.

PMID: 23457846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. J Coll Physicians Surg Pak. 2013 Mar;23(3):171-2.

Development of cancer services: potential specific complexities in the 
perspective of health economic evaluation.

Abbasi AN.

PMID: 23458036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Online J Health Ethics. 2008;5(1):81. doi: 10.18785/ojhe.0501.03.

Ethical Dimensions and Filial Caregiving.

McCarty EF(1), Hendricks CS, Hendricks DL, McCarty KM.

Author information:
(1)Salve Regina University.

The elderly are growing rapidly today as life expectancy increases. As this 
longevity has increased, so has the need for filial caregivers. While much has 
been written about caregiving stress, little has been written regarding the 
ethical dimensions of filial responsibility and daughter and son caregivers' 
perceptions of responsibility and moral demands. This paper will address the 
concept of family caregiving and contextual family characteristics. Family 
characteristics will expand awareness of the interrelationship value between the 
nature of the prior filial relationship, image of caregiving, and ethical views 
that underscore acceptance of the filial obligation. An explanation of both the 
interview process and selected measurements that speak to ethical perspective, 
sense of caregiving image, and expectations of filial caregiving will also be 
addressed. Therefore, the purpose of this paper is to elucidate how adult 
children may be helped in an anticipatory and proactive manner as more and more 
adult children take on parent care for longer durations of time.

DOI: 10.18785/ojhe.0501.03
PMCID: PMC3584700
PMID: 23459516


432. Top Spinal Cord Inj Rehabil. 2012 Winter;18(1):43-9. doi:
10.1310/sci1801-43.

Surgical restoration of arm and hand function in people with tetraplegia.

Bryden AM(1), Peljovich AE, Hoyen HA, Nemunaitis G, Kilgore KL, Keith MW.

Author information:
(1)The Cleveland FES Center, Case Western Reserve University , Cleveland , Ohio.

Improved hand and arm function is the most sought after function for people 
living with a cervical spinal cord injury (SCI). Surgical techniques have been 
established to increase upper extremity function for tetraplegics, focusing on 
restoring elbow extension, wrist movement, and hand opening and closing. 
Additionally, more innovative treatments that have been developed (implanted 
neuroprostheses and nerve transfers) provide more options for improving function 
and quality of life. One of the most important steps in the process of restoring 
upper extremity function in people with tetraplegia is identifying appropriate 
candidates - typically those with American Spinal Injury Association (ASIA) 
motor level C5 or greater. Secondary complications of SCI can pose barriers to 
restoring function, particularly upper extremity spasticity. A novel approach to 
managing spasticity through high-frequency alternating currents designed to 
block unwanted spasticity is being researched at the Cleveland FES Center and 
may improve the impact of reconstructive surgery for these individuals. The 
impact of these surgeries is best measured within the framework of the World 
Health Organization's International Classification of Function, Disability and 
Health. Outcome measures should be chosen to reflect changes within the domains 
of body functions and structures, activity, and participation. There is a need 
to strengthen the evidence in the area of reconstructive procedures for people 
with tetraplegia. Research continues to advance, providing more options for 
improved function in this population than ever before. The contribution of 
well-designed outcome studies to this evidence base will ultimately help to 
address the complications surrounding access to the procedures.

DOI: 10.1310/sci1801-43
PMCID: PMC3584747
PMID: 23459698


433. Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Mar;32(3):459-67. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2012.0574.

Mortality under age 50 accounts for much of the fact that US life expectancy 
lags that of other high-income countries.

Ho JY(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, in Philadelphia, USA. yjho@sas.upenn.edu

Life expectancy at birth in the United States is among the lowest of all 
high-income countries. Most recent studies have concentrated on older ages, 
finding that Americans have a lower life expectancy at age fifty and experience 
higher levels of disease and disability than do their counterparts in other 
industrialized nations. Using cross-national mortality data to identify the key 
age groups and causes of death responsible for these shortfalls, I found that 
mortality differences below age fifty account for two-thirds of the gap in life 
expectancy at birth between American males and their counterparts in sixteen 
comparison countries. Among females, the figure is two-fifths. The major causes 
of death responsible for the below-fifty trends are unintentional injuries, 
including drug overdose--a fact that constitutes the most striking finding from 
this study; noncommunicable diseases; perinatal conditions, such as pregnancy 
complications and birth trauma; and homicide. In all, this study highlights the 
importance of focusing on younger ages and on policies both to prevent the major 
causes of death below age fifty and to reduce social inequalities.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2012.0574
PMID: 23459724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. J Nutr Health Aging. 2013 Mar;17(3):223-9. doi: 10.1007/s12603-012-0399-z.

Dietary nucleotides extend the life span in Sprague-Dawley rats.

Xu M(1), Liang R, Guo Q, Wang S, Zhao M, Zhang Z, Wang J, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, School of Public Health, Peking 
University, Beijing, PR China.

OBJECTIVE: To observe the effect of prolonged feeding of dietary nucleotides 
(NTs), and to clarify the effect of NTs on life extension of Sprague-Dawley 
rats.
METHODS: There were 50 Sprague-Dawley rats in each group (male:female 
ratio=1:1), which were fed diets supplemented with NTs at concentrations of 0%, 
0.01%, 0.04%, 0.16% and 0.64% (wt/wt) from the age of 4 weeks until natural 
death. We investigated the moribundity and mortality, survival time, spontaneous 
tumor incidence, and serum oxidative status.
RESULTS: NTs have signiﬁcantly inﬂuence body weight of first 3 month old and 
food consumption of male rats throughout the life span; it did dose-dependently 
inhibit the age-related decrease in the activities of antioxidant enzymes and 
the age-related increase in the levels of lipid peroxidation product in both 
sexes. NTs notably increased the mean life span, and the maximal life span. 
Compared to the control group, the incidence of death from tumors was decreased 
in NTs groups of both sexes.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term feeding of NTs could dose-dependently increase life span 
in Sprague-Dawley rats, especially, the tumor-bearing ones. Moreover, the 
antioxidative property of NTs may be responsible for the increased life span.

DOI: 10.1007/s12603-012-0399-z
PMID: 23459974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Neurourol Urodyn. 2014 Jan;33(1):106-14. doi: 10.1002/nau.22383. Epub 2013
Mar  4.

Long-term safety, tolerability and efficacy of flexible-dose fesoterodine in 
elderly patients with overactive bladder: open-label extension of the SOFIA 
trial.

Wagg A(1), Khullar V, Michel MC, Oelke M, Darekar A, Bitoun CE.

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada.

AIMS: To assess the long-term safety, tolerability, and efficacy of 
flexible-dose fesoterodine in elderly patients with OAB.
METHODS: Patients aged ≥65 years who completed a 12-week, randomized, 
double-blind, placebo-controlled trial were eligible for the 12-week, open-label 
(OL) extension phase. Patients who received double-blind placebo started on 
fesoterodine 4 mg and could increase to 8 mg after 4 or 8 weeks of OL treatment, 
while fesoterodine-treated patients continued on their double-blind dose; only 
one dose escalation or de-escalation was permitted. Discontinuations and adverse 
events (AEs) were monitored, and patients completed 3-day bladder diaries and 
patient-reported outcomes at the beginning and end of the 12-week OL phase.
RESULTS: Six hundred fifty-four patients entered the 12-week OL extension (mean 
age 72 years; 52% women). AEs were reported by 30.7% and 48.1% of patients who 
had received double-blind fesoterodine and placebo, respectively; 1.9% and 9.4%, 
discontinued due to AEs, respectively. Patients who received double-blind 
fesoterodine maintained their efficacy response. After 12 weeks of OL treatment, 
efficacy outcomes in patients who received double-blind placebo were similar to 
those who had received double-blind fesoterodine. On average, the efficacy 
response was maintained for the duration of the study.
CONCLUSIONS: Fesoterodine was well tolerated and improvements in OAB symptoms 
and quality of life measures were not diminished with longer-term treatment of 
patients aged ≥65 years.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/nau.22383
PMID: 23460503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Apr;42(2):549-58. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyt008. Epub 2013
Mar  4.

Reversing East-West mortality difference among German women, and the role of 
smoking.

Myrskylä M(1), Scholz R.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research, Rostock, Germany. 
myrskyla@demogr.mpg.de

BACKGROUND: The German East-West mortality difference narrowed rapidly after the 
1990 unification, particularly for women. We analyse recent trends for women 
aged 50-89 years and document for the first time lower mortality in the East. We 
study how smoking contributes to this cross-over.
METHODS: We analyse mortality by cause for women aged 50-89 over the years 
1992-2009 for the East and West Germany, excluding Berlin. We compare the 
East-West mortality rate ratio (MRR) for total mortality and after removing 
smoking-attributable mortality using the indirect Preston-Glei-Wilmoth method.
RESULTS: In the early 1990s mortality was higher in the East. By 2000 mortality 
for ages 50-64 had declined below that of the West and remained lower 
thereafter. For example, from 1992-94 to 2005-09 the MRR for ages 55-59 declined 
from 1.27 to 0.87. Smoking explains a third of the MRR change for ages 50-64, 
and when smoking-attributable deaths are removed the mortality cross-over 
vanishes. For example, non-smoking-attributable MRR for ages 55-59 is 1.03 in 
2005-09. For ages 65-89 smoking matters less, and mortality remains higher in 
the East.
CONCLUSIONS: We show for the first time that mortality for middle-aged women is 
lower in the former East Germany than in the West. Prior studies have documented 
convergence and suggested improving living standards and medical care as 
mechanisms. We show that much of the convergence, and the cross-over, are 
attributable to smoking. The seeds for the female East-West mortality cross-over 
were planted before the unification, when the women now aged 50-64 adopted their 
smoking behaviours.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyt008
PMID: 23460605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Tsitologiia. 2012;54(12):883-6.

[Life extension study on high-yield non-myeloablating bone marrow 
transplantation from young to old mice].

[Article in Russian]

Kovina MV, Zuev VA, Kagarlitskiĭ GO, Khodarovich IuM.

Tissue renewal is the known phenomenon, when the progeny of resident or 
circulated stem cells (SC) replaces the vanishing cells. The delivery of stem 
cells via circulation should result in stem cell homing and differentiation into 
wide variety of tissues and gives promise as therapy for many diseases of tissue 
failure including aging itself. To test this hypothesis, we created chimeric 
mice C57BL/6 by bone marrow (BM) transplantation from young 1.5 months old 
donors to 21.5-months old recipient mice of the same strain C57BL/6. We applied 
here the recently published new transplantation technique, which allows to get 
high scores of chimerism due to very high amount of transplanted cells (1.5 x 
10(8) per mouse or 25% of its total BM count). In the earlier works only 1% of 
total BM count (about 5 x 10(6) cells per mouse) was usually transplanted to 
lethally irradiated mice, what excluded the possibility to apply this method for 
life extension. As a result of the modified technique implementation, the mean 
post-transplantation life (starting the 21.5 months old) of treated mice was 4.9 
months versus 3.4 months for untreated mice. The difference in 1.5 months counts 
for 44% extension of mean post-transplantation life.

PMID: 23461031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Soc Work Public Health. 2013;28(2):81-96. doi: 10.1080/19371918.2011.552038.

Veterans Administration health care policies as a protective mechanism 
supporting an expected life trajectory after military service.

Smith-Osborne A(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work, University of Texas at Arlington, Arlington, Texas 
76019-0129, USA. alexaso@uta.edu

Changes in the American military since the end of military conscription, as well 
as the increasing number of service-connected disabilities, suggest the need for 
increased consideration of the effects of health policies when assessing the 
impact of military service on young Americans' life course. This study analyzes 
data from the most recent National Survey of Veterans to investigate the health 
status, health benefits, and health care utilization of 2,773 Gulf War veterans, 
in association with resumption of their civilian life trajectory. Findings 
suggest that this sample of veterans may have poorer health status than previous 
veteran cohorts and did not fully utilize veterans' health care benefits to 
which they were entitled. This article examines whether veterans may usefully be 
considered a group at risk for health disparities, in that they have greater 
health risks and potentially poorer health status and access than mainstream 
Americans.

DOI: 10.1080/19371918.2011.552038
PMID: 23461344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Aging Cell. 2013 Jun;12(3):523-4. doi: 10.1111/acel.12066. Epub 2013 Apr 2.

Experimental insights into age-exacerbated cognitive dysfunction after 
peripheral surgery.

Fidalgo AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Advanced Science and Technology, The University of Tokyo, 
4-6-1, Komaba, Meguro-ku, Tokyo, 153-8904, Japan. afidalgo@outlook.com

Comment on
    J Neurosci. 2012 Oct 17;32(42):14641-8.

Here I comment on the recent contribution by Barrientos et al. J. Neurosci. 32, 
14641-14648 (2012) addressing treatment possibilities for surgery-induced 
cognitive dysfunction. It has been over 15 years since the publication of a 
landmark study that indicated age as a major risk factor for postoperative 
cognitive dysfunction (POCD) (Moller et al., Lancet 351, 857-861 1998). With 
increasing life expectancy, surgical procedures conducted in elderly persons are 
becoming more common. The prevalence of POCD may mean that some patients will 
exchange the incapacitating condition that led them to surgery in the first 
instance for another such condition, which has been created by the surgical 
procedure itself. The report by Barrientos and collaborators (2012) is a timely 
and welcome study that further examines treatment possibilities for 
surgery-induced cognitive dysfunction. Future studies should address issues such 
as intensity and onset of inflammation within the brain and additional 
treatments possibilities beyond IL-1-ra.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd and the Anatomical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12066
PMID: 23461580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. AIDS. 2013 Jun 1;27(9):1483-92. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e328360a4e5.

Cost-effectiveness of point-of-care viral load monitoring of antiretroviral 
therapy in resource-limited settings: mathematical modelling study.

Estill J(1), Egger M, Blaser N, Vizcaya LS, Garone D, Wood R, Campbell J, 
Hallett TB, Keiser O; IeDEA Southern Africa.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Bern, Bern, 
Switzerland. jestill@ispm.unibe.ch

Comment in
    AIDS. 2013 Jun 1;27(9):1509-11.

BACKGROUND: Monitoring of HIV viral load in patients on combination 
antiretroviral therapy (ART) is not generally available in resource-limited 
settings. We examined the cost-effectiveness of qualitative point-of-care viral 
load tests (POC-VL) in sub-Saharan Africa.
DESIGN: Mathematical model based on longitudinal data from the Gugulethu and 
Khayelitsha township ART programmes in Cape Town, South Africa.
METHODS: Cohorts of patients on ART monitored by POC-VL, CD4 cell count or 
clinically were simulated. Scenario A considered the more accurate detection of 
treatment failure with POC-VL only, and scenario B also considered the effect on 
HIV transmission. Scenario C further assumed that the risk of virologic failure 
is halved with POC-VL due to improved adherence. We estimated the change in 
costs per quality-adjusted life-year gained (incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios, ICERs) of POC-VL compared with CD4 and clinical monitoring.
RESULTS: POC-VL tests with detection limits less than 1000 copies/ml increased 
costs due to unnecessary switches to second-line ART, without improving 
survival. Assuming POC-VL unit costs between US$5 and US$20 and detection limits 
between 1000 and 10,000 copies/ml, the ICER of POC-VL was US$4010-US$9230 
compared with clinical and US$5960-US$25540 compared with CD4 cell count 
monitoring. In Scenario B, the corresponding ICERs were US$2450-US$5830 and 
US$2230-US$10380. In Scenario C, the ICER ranged between US$960 and US$2500 
compared with clinical monitoring and between cost-saving and US$2460 compared 
with CD4 monitoring.
CONCLUSION: The cost-effectiveness of POC-VL for monitoring ART is improved by a 
higher detection limit, by taking the reduction in new HIV infections into 
account and assuming that failure of first-line ART is reduced due to targeted 
adherence counselling.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e328360a4e5
PMCID: PMC3813830
PMID: 23462219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. BMJ. 2013 Mar 5;346:f1478. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f1478.

UK improves health outcomes but not as fast as similar countries.

Hawkes N.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f1478
PMID: 23462412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Exp Gerontol. 2013 Oct;48(10):1014-7. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.02.018. Epub
 2013 Feb 24.

Dietary restriction in C. elegans: recent advances.

Cypser JR(1), Kitzenberg D, Park SK.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado at Boulder, 
Boulder, CO, USA.

The nematode Caenorhabditis elegans continues to serve as a useful model of life 
extension caused by dietary restriction. Using this model, downstream effectors 
of dietary restriction-induced longevity have been elucidated, including 
neuropeptides and cell-surface receptors. Although it remains possible that 
different forms of dietary restriction may utilize both specific and overlapping 
mechanisms to promote longevity, the nematode model has revealed roles for 
autophagy, metabolic energy-sensing and the hypoxic response. The nematode has 
also been used to identify specific tissues required for life extension via DR, 
including coelomocytes, intestine, and neurons.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.02.018
PMID: 23462461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. JAMA. 2013 Mar 6;309(9):874-6. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.1184.

Predicting 10-year mortality for older adults.

Cruz M(1), Covinsky K, Widera EW, Stijacic-Cenzer I, Lee SJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, University of California, San Francisco, USA.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.1184
PMCID: PMC3760279
PMID: 23462780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest Authors have no financial 
or other conflicts of interests to disclose.


444. World J Surg. 2013 Jun;37(6):1208-15. doi: 10.1007/s00268-013-1977-x.

Obstacles to surgical services in a rural Cameroonian district hospital.

Ilbawi AM(1), Einterz EM, Nkusu D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Washington, School of Medicine, 1959 NE 
Pacific Street, Box 356410, Seattle, WA 98195, USA. andre4@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: There are significant obstacles to the delivery of surgical care in 
low income countries. Few studies have defined or characterized these 
constraints. The present study aimed to identify financial and demographic 
factors limiting the utilization of surgical services in rural Cameroon.
METHODS: A review was performed of all surgical records for patients presenting 
for surgery at the District Hospital of Kolofata in rural Cameroon over the 
3-year study period (2004-2007). Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) were 
calculated using disease- and patient-specific outcomes while accounting for 
postoperative morbidity. Univariate and multivariate analysis identified factors 
associated with failure to return for care.
RESULTS: During the study period, 1,213 patients presented for preoperative 
evaluation, were informed of the cost to be paid preoperatively, and had surgery 
scheduled. Of these, 544 patients did not return for treatment, representing 
2,163 DALYs potentially lost. Multivariate analysis revealed significant factors 
associated with increased likelihood of not returning for care as required 
preoperative payment >$US 310 (OR 0.44-0.86) and a recommended procedure for 
cancer (OR 0.47-0.86) or cutaneous disease (OR 0.28-0.95). Factors associated 
with increased odds of returning were male gender (OR 1.03-1.98), preoperative 
payment <$US 50 (OR 2.86-16.2), and a procedure with low DALYs (OR 1.71-9.89). 
The average cost per DALY for all operations performed was $US 27.13.
CONCLUSIONS: Although surgery addresses a significant disease burden and is 
reported to be a cost-effective public health intervention, utilization is 
limited by high costs, demographic factors, and patient perceptions of surgical 
diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-013-1977-x
PMID: 23463397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. J Gen Intern Med. 2013 Sep;28(9):1157-64. doi: 10.1007/s11606-013-2400-x.

Cost-effectiveness of procalcitonin-guided antibiotic use in community acquired 
pneumonia.

Smith KJ(1), Wateska A, Nowalk MP, Raymund M, Lee BY, Zimmerman RK, Fine MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. smithkj2@upmc.edu

BACKGROUND: Although prior randomized trials have demonstrated that 
procalcitonin-guided antibiotic therapy effectively reduces antibiotic use in 
patients with community-acquired pneumonia (CAP), uncertainties remain regarding 
use of procalcitonin protocols in practice.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of procalcitonin protocols in CAP.
DESIGN: Decision analysis using published observational and clinical trial data, 
with variation of all parameter values in sensitivity analyses.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical patient cohorts who were hospitalized for CAP.
INTERVENTIONS: Procalcitonin protocols vs. usual care.
MAIN MEASURES: Costs and cost per quality adjusted life year gained.
KEY RESULTS: When no differences in clinical outcomes were assumed, consistent 
with clinical trials and observational data, procalcitonin protocols cost 
$10-$54 more per patient than usual care in CAP patients. Under these 
assumptions, results were most sensitive to variations in: antibiotic cost, the 
likelihood that antibiotic therapy was initiated less frequently or over shorter 
durations, and the likelihood that physicians were nonadherent to procalcitonin 
protocols. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses, incorporating procalcitonin 
protocol-related changes in quality of life, found that protocol use was 
unlikely to be economically reasonable if physician protocol nonadherence was 
high, as observational study data suggest. However, procalcitonin protocols were 
favored if they decreased hospital length of stay.
CONCLUSIONS: Procalcitonin protocol use in hospitalized CAP patients, although 
promising, lacks physician nonadherence and resource use data in routine care 
settings, which are needed to evaluate its potential role in patient care.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-013-2400-x
PMCID: PMC3744292
PMID: 23463457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Ann Pharmacother. 2013 Mar;47(3):380-7. doi: 10.1345/aph.1R417. Epub 2013
Mar 5.

Use of number needed to treat in cost-effectiveness analyses.

Garg V(1), Shen X, Cheng Y, Nawarskas JJ, Raisch DW.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacoeconomics, Epidemiology, Pharmaceutical Policy, and Outcomes Research 
program, Department of Pharmacy Practice and Administrative Sciences, College of 
Pharmacy, University of New Mexico, Albuquerque, NM, USA. vgarg@salud.unm.edu

OBJECTIVE: To review the use of number needed to treat (NNT) and/or number 
needed to harm (NNH) values to determine their relevance in helping clinicians 
evaluate cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs).
DATA SOURCES: PubMed and EconLit were searched from 1966 to September 2012.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Reviews, editorials, non-English-language 
articles, and articles that did not report NNT/NNH or cost-effectiveness ratios 
were excluded. CEA studies reporting cost per life-year gained, per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), or other cost per effectiveness measure were 
included. Full texts of all included articles were reviewed for study 
information, including type of journal, impact factor of the journal, focus of 
study, data source, publication year, how NNT/NNH values were reported, and 
outcome measures.
DATA SYNTHESIS: A total of 188 studies were initially identified, with 69 
meeting our inclusion criteria. Most were published in 
clinician-practice-focused journals (78.3%) while 5.8% were in policy-focused 
journals, and 15.9% in health-economics-focused journals. The majority (72.4%) 
of the articles were published in high-impact journals (impact factor >3.0). 
Many articles focused on either disease treatment (40.5%) or disease prevention 
(40.5%). Forty-eight percent reported NNT as a part of the CEA ratio per event. 
Most (53.6%) articles used data from literature reviews, while 24.6% used data 
from randomized clinical trials, and 20.3% used data from observational studies. 
In addition, 10% of the studies implemented modeling to perform CEA.
CONCLUSIONS: CEA studies sometimes include NNT ratios. Although it has several 
limitations, clinicians often use NNT for decision-making, so including NNT 
information alongside CEA findings may help clinicians better understand and 
apply CEA results. Further research is needed to assess how NNT/NNH might 
meaningfully be incorporated into CEA publications.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1R417
PMID: 23463742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


