antiviral therapy was assessed. A Markov model was developed to simulate disease 
progression and calculate outcome and costs of treatment. In the baseline 
analysis, Peg-IFN/RBV treatment prevented organ loss/death, gained 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and undercut the limit of cost-effectiveness 
of €50 000/QALY with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of approximately 
€40 400/QALY and €21 000/QALY for HCV genotype 1 and 2/3 patients, respectively. 
Furthermore, sensitivity analysis testing modified model parameters according to 
extreme data described in the literature confirmed cost-effectiveness for a 
lower or higher rate of fibrosis progression, increased non-HCV-related 
mortality, lower limits of utilities, a time horizon of 30 years, and additional 
costs in the year of death. On the other hand, cost-effectiveness was lost for 
patients with genotype 1 in case of doubled antiviral or life-time costs or an 
increased discount rate of 7%. New treatment strategies for HCV genotype 1 
infected patients remained on the same level cost-effective, if additional costs 
did not exceed €10 774 per 10% sustained virologic response gain. We conclude 
that Peg-IFN/RBV treatment is cost-effective post transplant. This may support 
treatment decision in individual cases.

© 2013 The Authors Transplant International © 2013 European Society for Organ 
Transplantation. Published by Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tri.12085
PMID: 23517333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. Semin Dial. 2013 Jul-Aug;26(4):520-6. doi: 10.1111/sdi.12046. Epub 2013 Mar
21.

Understanding surgical preference and practice in hemodialysis vascular access 
creation.

Nica A(1), Lok CE, Harris J, Lee TC, Mokrzycki MH, Maya ID, Vazquez MA, Xi W, 
Moist LM; North American Vascular Access Consortium (NAVAC).

Author information:
(1)Schulich School of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Western Ontario, 
London, Ontario, Canada.

Understanding healthcare providers' preferences, values, and beliefs around AVF 
eligibility is important to explain variability in practice. We conducted a 
survey of international surgeons, using hypothetical patient scenarios, to 
assess resources used, variables, perceived barriers, and absolute 
contraindications to access creation. A total of 134 surgeons completed the 
survey. Venous duplex ultrasound mapping (VDUM) was offered to all patients by 
90% of US, 68% Canadian, and 63% European respondents. VDUM altered clinical 
decision less than 25% of the time for 33% American, 48% Canadian, and 85% 
European surgeons. Increased comorbidities and previous failed access were 
deterrents to AVF creation as was vessel size. Second choice access was the AV 
graft in the US and Europe and the catheter in Canada. Absolute 
contraindications to AVF creation included patient life expectancy <1 year, left 
ventricular ejection fraction (LVEF) <15%, and a history of dementia, while 42% 
surgeons reported no absolute contraindications. Perceived barriers included 
patient preferences, long wait times for surgery, and late referral to a 
Nephrologist. Significant variability exists in the surgical preoperative 
assessment of patients, and the eligibility criteria used for fistula creation. 
Understanding surgeons' preferences can aid in establishing standardization for 
VA access eligibility, including surgical assessment.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/sdi.12046
PMID: 23517536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Nonlinear Dynamics Psychol Life Sci. 2013 Apr;17(2):173-81.

Decision making with complex nonlinear systems: inference and identification in 
the context of DS22q11.2.

Gregson RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Australian National University, Canberra, ACT 0200, 
Australia. ramgdd@bigpond.com

A rare gene deletion syndrome, that has in its associated phenome some possible 
cognitive and psychotic features, has been examined with DNA and fMRI for its 
causal basis within families and its statistical distribution in populations. 
Identification of its presence without DNA evidence is problematic as the 
condition is not stationary nor linear in its properties as the carrier grows 
older. Within a family its distribution is Mendelian, but there are also 
complications due to its complexity. A combined approach using both signal 
detection and an extension of Bayes theorem is a possible approach to 
discriminating between symptoms that have potentially a multi-causal basis, of 
which 22q11.2 deletion is only one possibility. Two later issues have arisen, 
one involving possibly at least two genetically different syndromes that result 
in similar autism in infancy, the other in statistical problems of prediction. 
Diagnosis of probable early DS 22q11.2 independent deaths as opposed to survival 
into adulthood can be wrongly thought to be a case of infanticide, and legal 
disputes have consequently arisen in the U.K., the USA, and Australia.

PMID: 23517604 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. Curr Opin Nephrol Hypertens. 2013 May;22(3):316-24. doi: 
10.1097/MNH.0b013e32835ffaaf.

Illness trajectories and their relevance to the care of adults with kidney 
disease.

Schell JO(1), O'Hare AM.

Author information:
(1)aSection of Palliative Care and Medical Ethics bRenal-Electrolyte Division, 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, UPMC, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania 
cDepartment of Medicine, VA Puget Sound Healthcare System and University of 
Washington, Seattle, Washington, D.C., USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Existing practice guidelines for chronic kidney disease 
advocate a stage-based approach to management, in which treatment 
recommendations are based largely on the severity of kidney disease, and future 
risk for adverse health outcomes. However, the course of kidney disease can vary 
widely among patients with similar levels of kidney function, and each patient 
will experience their illness in unique ways.
RECENT FINDINGS: We summarize recent studies of patterns of kidney function over 
time among patients with chronic kidney disease, and discuss these findings in 
the context of relevant conceptual models of illness and communication. Although 
knowledge of disease severity can provide useful information on life expectancy 
and risk for future health events, an understanding of each patient's illness 
trajectory and their unique experience of illness is essential in supporting 
patient-centered care for patients with kidney disease. This information can be 
helpful in setting realistic expectations for the future, in communicating about 
prognosis and in aligning treatment decisions with each patient's goals and 
preferences.
SUMMARY: We here explain how an understanding of illness trajectories may be 
useful in predicting and guiding care and decision-making in patients with 
kidney disease. We highlight the importance of competing disease trajectories, 
the heterogeneity in renal function trajectories among patients with kidney 
disease, and the variability in these trajectories over time in individual 
patients. We discuss how individual disease trajectories can shape each 
patient's experience of illness. Finally, we explain how an understanding of an 
individual patient's illness trajectory and experience of illness may be useful 
in guiding discussions about prognosis and treatment decisions and in supporting 
a patient-centered approach to care.

DOI: 10.1097/MNH.0b013e32835ffaaf
PMID: 23518464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Turk Kardiyol Dern Ars. 2012 Dec;40(8):736-43. doi: 10.5543/tkda.2012.26790.

[Saphenous vein graft disease: causes, prevention, and contemporary treatment 
strategies].

[Article in Turkish]

Gökay S(1), Ciçek D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Başkent University Alanya Practice and Research 
Hospital, Antalya, Turkey. seherbozboga@yahoo.com

Coronary bypass graft surgery provides symptomatic relief and a long life 
expectancy for most patients with coronary artery disease who have suitable 
vessels. Although arterial conduits are becoming more popular, saphenous vein 
grafts (SVG) are still frequently used in coronary artery bypass surgery since 
they are readily available, especially in emergency situations. However, SVG 
tend to degenerate over time, as nearly half of them develop significant 
stenosis and nearly 40% of them become completely occluded within a decade. 
Treatment options for SVG failure include redo-surgery, percutaneous 
intervention, and/or medical therapy. However, challenges in maintaining graft 
patency (as a predictor of long-term survival) and interventional complications 
(e.g., distal embolization, ''no-reflow,'' and higher rates of periprocedural 
myocardial infarction) are still ongoing problems for cardiologists and 
cardiovascular surgeons. This review discusses the possible causes of graft 
failure and the contemporary approaches for improving outcomes in patients 
undergoing coronary artery bypass graft surgery with at least one SVG.

DOI: 10.5543/tkda.2012.26790
PMID: 23518892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. J Low Genit Tract Dis. 2013 Apr;17(2):193-202. doi: 
10.1097/LGT.0b013e3182616241.

Screening for cervical cancer: a modeling study for the US Preventive Services 
Task Force.

Kulasingam SL(1), Havrilesky LJ, Ghebre R, Myers ER.

Author information:
(1)Minnesota Evidence-Based Practice Center, University of Minnesota, 
Minneapolis, MN 55454, USA. kulas016@umn.edu

OBJECTIVE: This study addresses the following 3 questions posed by the US 
Preventive Services Task Force: (1) at what age should screening for cervical 
cancer begin; (2) at what age should screening for cervical cancer end; and (3) 
how do the benefits and potential harms of screening strategies that use human 
papillomavirus DNA testing in conjunction with cytology (cotesting) compare with 
those strategies that use cytology only?
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A Markov model was updated and used to quantify clinical 
outcomes (i.e., colposcopies, cancers, and life expectancy) associated with 
different screening strategies.
RESULTS: Screening in the teenaged years is associated with a high number of 
colposcopies (harms), small differences in cancers detected and, as a result, 
small gains in life expectancy (benefits). Screening women beginning in the 
early 20s provides a reasonable balance of the harms and benefits of screening. 
Among women who have been screened according to the current recommendations for 
cervical cancer (beginning at age 21 years and conducted every 3 years with 
cytology), screening beyond 65 years is associated with small additional gains 
in life expectancy but large increases in colposcopies. For cotesting, a 
strategy of cytology only conducted every 3 years, followed by cotesting 
conducted every 5 years (for women ≥30 years), is associated with fewer 
colposcopies and greater gains in life expectancy compared with screening with 
cytology only conducted every 3 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this modeling study support current US Preventive 
Services Task Force recommendations for cervical cancer screening.

DOI: 10.1097/LGT.0b013e3182616241
PMCID: PMC3608928
PMID: 23519288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest For the remaining authors 
no conflicts of interest are declared.


585. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Apr;31(4):289-304. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0037-6.

Model-based cost-effectiveness analyses for prostate cancer chemoprevention : a 
review and summary of challenges.

Earnshaw SR(1), Brogan AP, McDade CL.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, 3040 Cornwallis Road, Post Office Box 12194, Research 
Triangle Park, NC 27709-2194, USA. searnshaw@rti.org

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Decision-analytic modelling is often used to examine the 
economics associated with using a specific treatment. As a result, it is 
important to understand structural and methodological approaches used in 
published decision-analytic models for examining the cost effectiveness of 
5α-reductase inhibitors (5ARIs) for prostate cancer (PCa) chemoprevention. This 
understanding allows us to provide recommendations for using decision modelling 
in future economic evaluations of chemoprevention for PCa.
METHODS: A review of the published literature was performed using MEDLINE and 
the Cochrane Library to identify studies involving mathematical decision models 
that evaluated 5ARIs for PCa chemoprevention. Published articles were reviewed 
and key modelling components were extracted and summarized. Recommendations for 
developing future decision models to examine the economic consequences of PCa 
chemoprevention were presented.
RESULTS: We identified seven published models of PCa chemoprevention. All the 
models identified used a Markov framework with time horizons ranging from 
4 years to lifetime. Due to the wide range of patient risk groups examined, PCa 
risk data were taken from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) 
and other databases or estimates published in relevant clinical trials. 
Treatment effects included change in the incidence of high- and low-grade PCa 
and impacts on benign prostate hyperplasia. Adverse events were considered to 
affect compliance, discontinuation and quality of life. Quality-of-life impacts 
were similar among studies. Examination of modelling parameter sensitivities was 
comprehensive.
CONCLUSIONS: Published models have examined the cost effectiveness of PCa 
chemoprevention; however, limitations exist. Decision models should take into 
account the full PCa clinical pathway when compiling health states. The time 
horizon should be long enough to consider the full benefit of chemoprevention 
while allowing actual time receiving the drug to occur from the start of the 
model until a man's life expectancy is less than 10 years. Baseline PCa risk 
should be specific to the population of concern. Models should examine the 
impact on both low- and high-grade tumours and account for the impact of 5ARIs 
on benign prostatic hyperplasia. Because chemoprevention has an upfront effect, 
the structure of the model should be constructed so that the downstream effect 
of avoiding or delaying recurrence can be considered. Adverse events due to 
chemoprevention should be considered through compliance, discontinuation or 
quality-of-life impact, and understanding the impact of avoiding PCa and benign 
prostatic hyperplasia events are important model properties.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0037-6
PMID: 23519744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


586. BMJ. 2013 Mar 20;346:f1035. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f1035.

Cost effectiveness of telehealth for patients with long term conditions (Whole 
Systems Demonstrator telehealth questionnaire study): nested economic evaluation 
in a pragmatic, cluster randomised controlled trial.

Henderson C(1), Knapp M, Fernández JL, Beecham J, Hirani SP, Cartwright M, Rixon 
L, Beynon M, Rogers A, Bower P, Doll H, Fitzpatrick R, Steventon A, Bardsley M, 
Hendy J, Newman SP; Whole System Demonstrator evaluation team.

Collaborators: Newman SP, Bardsley M, Barlow J, Beecham J, Beynon M, Billings J, 
Bowen A, Bower P, Cartwright M, Chrysanthaki T, Dixon J, Doll H, Fernandez JL, 
Fitzpatrick R, Henderson C, Hendy J, Hirani SP, Knapp M, MacNeill V, Rixon L, 
Rogers A, Sanders C, Silva LA, Steventon A.

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics and Political Science, London WC2A 2AE, UK. 
C.Henderson@lse.ac.uk

Erratum in
    BMJ. 2013;346:j2065.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2013;346:f3377.
    J Comp Eff Res. 2013 Jul;2(4):379-81.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the costs and cost effectiveness of telehealth in addition 
to standard support and treatment, compared with standard support and treatment.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation nested in a pragmatic, cluster randomised controlled 
trial.
SETTING: Community based telehealth intervention in three local authority areas 
in England.
PARTICIPANTS: 3230 people with a long term condition (heart failure, chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease, or diabetes) were recruited into the Whole 
Systems Demonstrator telehealth trial between May 2008 and December 2009. Of 
participants taking part in the Whole Systems Demonstrator telehealth 
questionnaire study examining acceptability, effectiveness, and cost 
effectiveness, 845 were randomised to telehealth and 728 to usual care.
INTERVENTIONS: Intervention participants received a package of telehealth 
equipment and monitoring services for 12 months, in addition to the standard 
health and social care services available in their area. Controls received usual 
health and social care.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Primary outcome for the cost effectiveness analysis was 
incremental cost per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: We undertook net benefit analyses of costs and outcomes for 965 
patients (534 receiving telehealth; 431 usual care). The adjusted mean 
difference in QALY gain between groups at 12 months was 0.012. Total health and 
social care costs (including direct costs of the intervention) for the three 
months before 12 month interview were £1390 (€1610; $2150) and £1596 for the 
usual care and telehealth groups, respectively. Cost effectiveness acceptability 
curves were generated to examine decision uncertainty in the analysis 
surrounding the value of the cost effectiveness threshold. The incremental cost 
per QALY of telehealth when added to usual care was £92 000. With this amount, 
the probability of cost effectiveness was low (11% at willingness to pay 
threshold of £30 000; >50% only if the threshold exceeded about £90 000). In 
sensitivity analyses, telehealth costs remained slightly (non-significantly) 
higher than usual care costs, even after assuming that equipment prices fell by 
80% or telehealth services operated at maximum capacity. However, the most 
optimistic scenario (combining reduced equipment prices with maximum operating 
capacity) eliminated this group difference (cost effectiveness ratio £12 000 per 
QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: The QALY gain by patients using telehealth in addition to usual 
care was similar to that by patients receiving usual care only, and total costs 
associated with the telehealth intervention were higher. Telehealth does not 
seem to be a cost effective addition to standard support and treatment.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN43002091.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f1035
PMID: 23520339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e55441. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055441. Epub 2013 Mar
8.

Reduction in non-protein respiratory quotient is related to overall survival 
after hepatocellular carcinoma treatment.

Saito M(1), Seo Y, Yano Y, Momose K, Hirano H, Yoshida M, Azuma T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Kobe 
University Graduate School of Medicine, Kobe, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Transcatheter arterial chemoembolization (TACE) is an effective 
treatment for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) that can occasionally lead to the 
shortening of life expectancy. We aimed to make a new and more accurate 
prognostic model taking into account the course of disease after TACE.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: We performed a prospective cohort study 
involving 100 HCC patients who underwent TACE at Kobe University Hospital. 
Indirect calorimetry and blood biochemical examinations were performed before 
and 7 days after TACE. Time-dependent and time-fixed factors associated with 
1-year mortality after TACE were assessed by multivariate analyses. A predictive 
model of 1-year mortality was established by the combination of odds ratios of 
these factors. Multivariate analyses showed that the ratio of non-protein 
respiratory quotient (npRQ) (7 days after/before TACE) and Cancer of Liver 
Italian Program (CLIP) score were independent factors of 1-year mortality after 
TACE (p = 0.014 and 0.013, respectively). Patient-specific 1-year mortality risk 
scores can be calculated by summarizing the individual risk scores and looking 
up the patient-specific risk on the graph.
CONCLUSIONS: The short-term reduction of npRQ was a time-dependent prognostic 
factor associated with overall survival in HCC patients undergoing TACE. CLIP 
score was a time-fixed prognostic factor associated with overall survival. Using 
the prediction model, which consists of the combination of time-dependent (npRQ 
ratio) and time-fixed (CLIP score) prognostic factors, 1-year mortality risk 
after TACE would be better estimated by taking into account changes during the 
course of disease.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0055441
PMCID: PMC3592854
PMID: 23520445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


588. J Biosoc Sci. 2013 Mar;45(2):279-84. doi: 10.1017/s0021932012000508.

Geographic clustering of the secondary sex ratio in Japan: association with 
demographic attributes.

Inoue Y(1), Umezaki M, Watanabe C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Ecology, Graduate School of Medicine, The University of 
Tokyo, Japan.

The secondary sex ratio (SSR) has been suggested to decrease with adverse 
physical and psychological environments. Previous studies have focused on 
reduced SSR under adverse conditions, such as war, terrorism attack and 
earthquake, but few studies have investigated fluctuations in SSR in moderately 
adverse environments. This study analysed municipality-level vital statistics 
records in Japan collected between 1998 and 2002 to identify high-SSR clusters 
and low-SSR clusters with spatial-scan statistics. In 999 runs of simulation, 
high- and low-SSR clusters were detected but fewer than 950 times, indicating 
that SSR was not geographically clustered in Japan if type I error of 5% was 
adopted. Explorative analyses comparing demographic attributes between high-SSR 
clusters and low-SSR clusters that were detected more than 500 times in 999 runs 
of simulation, showed that rate of spontaneous abortion, rate of artificial 
abortion and divorce rate were higher in low-SSR clusters, while male life 
expectancy, female life expectancy and total fertility rate were higher in a 
high-SSR cluster.

DOI: 10.1017/s0021932012000508
PMID: 23520608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


589. Vopr Kurortol Fizioter Lech Fiz Kult. 2013 Jan-Feb;(1):10-9.

[Conceptual substantiation of the place and the role of a new research and 
practical area of rehabilitative medicine in the systemic organizational 
structure of the health care service in the Russian Federation].

[Article in Russian]

Razumov AN.

One of todays' priority mainstreams in state politics and public activities is 
the protection of life and health of the people and the increase of life 
expectancy based on the system ensuring the availability of relevant health 
improving and social measures. Health should be considered as a measure of 
somatic, mental, physical, and social well-being, as an indicator of the quality 
of life, and first and foremost as a result of robust social policy of the 
state, regulatory and legal support of the population and its right to the 
decent life. This line of reasoning suggests the importance of the development 
of a new human health paradigm. These considerations provide a basis for the 
elaboration of the concept of rehabilitative medicine with the healthy rather 
than sick man as its subject. It means that the former activities of 
prophylactic facilities oriented towards diagnostics of transition from health 
to pathology must be modified to have the control over psychophysiological 
reserves, occupational safety and health as the primary goal. The formula of 
discipline of "rehabilitative medicine, sports medicine, therapeutic physical 
training, balneotherapeutics, and physiotherapy" is based on this concept. In 
order to achieve said goal, the monopoly privilege of the Ministry of Health in 
the field of health preservation must be substituted by the integrated 
activities of all state power organs, educational institutions, parliamentary 
health committees, governmental financial and economic departments, all 
propaganda assets and information media in the field of public health care. Such 
an approach would allow to consolidate measures for the protection of the 
nation's health as the most important goal currently facing the state and 
society.

PMID: 23520922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Vopr Kurortol Fizioter Lech Fiz Kult. 2013 Jan-Feb;(1):44-50.

[Combined step-by-step rehabilitation of the patients presenting with 
early-onset rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in Russian]

Orlova EV, Karateev DE, Kochetkov AV, Denisov LN, Surnov AV.

The objective of the present study was to develop the program for combined 
step-by-step rehabilitation of the patients presenting with early-onset 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA); the secondary objective was to estimate the 
effectiveness of this program. A total of 34 patients were recruited for the 
participation in the study. They received medicamental therapy in combination 
with the rehabilitative treatment during 6 months. The hospital-based treatment 
included therapeutic exercises for large joints under the supervision of a 
specialist (45 min), occupational therapy (45 min), local aerial cryotherapy of 
wrist, knee, and ankle joints (10 sessions 15 min each at a temperature of -60 
degrees C), ortheses, and the educational program (4 daily studies 90 min each). 
The outpatient and home-based treatment included therapeutic exercises for large 
joints (45 min), wrist exercises (45 min) three times every week, ortheses. 26 
patients received only medicamental therapy (control group). The following 
characteristics were measured: the average power of extension of knee joints and 
of flexion of ankle joints (by means of En-TreeM analysis of movements), wrist 
grip strength, articular pain (100 mm VAS, DAS28, HAQ, RAPID3 indices). The 
rehabilitative program ensured excellent compliance with basal therapy, reduced 
requirements for symptomatic medicines, and improved adherence to the methods 
for the formation of the correct movement patterns, orthesis wearing, and 
regular therapeutic exercises. The rehabilitative treatment resulted in the 
relief of articular pain by 70.4% (p < 0.01), decrease of DAS28 by 31.9% (p < 
0.05), HAQ by 75.8% (p < 0.01), and RAPID3 by 60.1% (p < 0.01). The grip 
strength of the more seriously injured wrist increased by 44.9% (p < 0.05) and 
that of the less damaged one by 31.3% (p < 0.05). The average extension power of 
the weaker knee joint increased by 88.7% (p < 0.01) and that of the stronger 
joint by 67.7% (p < 0.01). The average flexion power of the more seriously 
injured ankle joint increased by 81.6% (p < 0.01) and that of the less damaged 
one by 70.2% (p < 0.01). The two groups were significantly different in terms of 
the majority of characteristics evaluated. It is concluded that the combined 
rehabilitative treatment helps to control the activity of the disease, enhances 
the functional abilities, improves the locomotor activity and quality of life of 
the patients with early-onset rheumatoid arthritis.

PMID: 23520927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2013 Apr;61(4):495-501. doi: 10.1111/jgs.12168. Epub 2013
Mar  21.

Diagnostic choices and clinical outcomes in octogenarians and nonagenarians with 
iron-deficiency anemia in the Netherlands.

Hamaker ME(1), Acampo T, Remijn JA, van Tuyl SA, Pronk A, van der Zaag ES, 
Paling HA, Smorenburg CH, de Rooij SE, van Munster BC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Diakonessenhuis Utrecht/Zeist/Doorn, 
Utrecht, the Netherlands. mhamaker@diakhuis.nl

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate current clinical practice for octogenarians with 
iron-deficiency anemia (IDA) by assessing referral patterns, diagnostic choices, 
clinical consequences of omission of endoscopy, and risks and benefits of 
IDA-related surgery.
DESIGN: Chart review.
SETTING: A regional hospital-based laboratory in the Netherlands between January 
2008 and December 2010.
PARTICIPANTS: All individuals aged 80 and older with newly ascertained IDA.
MEASUREMENTS: IDA was defined as a hemoglobin level of 11.1 g/dL or less and a 
ferritin level of 25 μg/L or less.
RESULTS: Four hundred seventy-one participants were newly diagnosed with IDA 
during the study period (median age 85.4), 276 of whom (59%) did not undergo any 
diagnostic procedures for IDA. A cause of anemia was identified during the 
initial examination in 50% of the 205 investigated participants, including nine 
(4%) upper and 37 (18%) lower gastrointestinal malignancies. Another 24 
malignancies were identified during follow-up, of which 16 were in the 
gastrointestinal tract, primarily in participants for whom the initial 
diagnostic examination was limited or omitted. Perioperative mortality was 15% 
in individuals with colon cancer. Median survival for participants with colon 
cancer was 2.2 years, and the survival benefit of surgery over supportive care 
was not apparent until 1.3 years after ascertainment of IDA.
CONCLUSION: The omission of endoscopy for IDA and the omission of surgery for 
colon cancer occur frequently in octogenarians and seem appropriate in the 
presence of significant comorbidity and in cases in which there is limited life 
expectancy. Further research is needed to determine which baseline factors 
should guide decision-making to optimize treatment outcomes and quality of life.

© 2013, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2013, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.12168
PMID: 23521576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. World J Surg Oncol. 2013 Mar 22;11:77. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-11-77.

Breast cancer after kidney transplantation: a single institution review.

Kwak HY(1), Chae BJ, Bae JS, Jung SS, Song BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Catholic University of Korea, College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea.

BACKGROUND: Improvements in immunosuppression have resulted in long life 
expectancy of kidney transplants. Unfortunately, the incidence of 
post-transplant malignancy (PTM) is increasing. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate the nature and stage-specific prognosis of post-transplant breast 
cancer (PTBC) compared with breast cancer in the general population, and to 
suggest optimal treatment strategies.
METHODS: A database of 2,139 consecutive kidney transplant patients was 
reviewed;11 of the patients developed breast cancer. These 11 PTBC cases 
underwent operations between 1999 and 2011. Next, 2,554 breast cancer patients 
treated in the same period were reviewed. Kaplan-Meier curves and the log-rank 
test were used to assess stage-specific survival of breast cancer in our 
hospital.
RESULTS: In total, 142 cases experienced post-transplant malignancy (PTM; 6.6%) 
and 11 (0.5%) developed PTBC. No one required an adjusted dose of 
immunosuppressive agent. Two stage III patients died. For all breast cancer 
patients, 5-year survival by stage was 97.7% for stage I, 92.9% for stage II, 
78.6% for stage III, and 49.9% for stage IV. The 5-year survival for expected 
stage III-specific survival was 66.7% and no significant statistical difference 
was seen compared to that of the total breast cancer patients (P = 0.213).
CONCLUSIONS: The prognosis of PTBC was comparable to that of the general 
population. These results suggest that the use of immunosuppressants per se does 
not adversely affect breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-11-77
PMCID: PMC3614869
PMID: 23521813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2013 Sep;14(9):642-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2013.02.004.
Epub  2013 Mar 19.

Body weight, anorexia, and undernutrition in older people.

Soenen S(1), Chapman IM.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Medicine, University of Adelaide, Royal Adelaide Hospital, 
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

Ideal body weight for maximum life expectancy increases with advancing age. 
Older people, however, tend to weigh less than younger adults, and old age is 
also associated with a tendency to lose weight. Weight loss in older people is 
associated with adverse outcomes, particularly if unintentional, and initial 
body weight is low. When older people lose weight, more of the tissue lost is 
lean tissue (mainly skeletal muscle) than in younger people. When excessive, the 
loss of lean muscle tissue results in sarcopenia, which is associated with poor 
health outcomes. Unintentional weight loss in older people may be a result of 
protein-energy malnutrition, cachexia, the physiological anorexia of aging, or a 
combination of these. The physiological anorexia of aging is a decrease in 
appetite and energy intake that occurs even in healthy people and is possibly 
caused by changes in the digestive tract, gastrointestinal hormone 
concentrations and activity, neurotransmitters, and cytokines. A greater 
understanding of this decrease in appetite and energy intake during aging, and 
the responsible mechanisms, may aid the search for ways to treat undernutrition 
and weight loss in older people.

Copyright © 2013 American Medical Directors Association, Inc. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2013.02.004
PMID: 23522494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Clin Ther. 2013 Apr;35(4):414-24. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2013.02.020. Epub
 2013 Mar 20.

Estimating the cost-effectiveness of onabotulinumtoxinA for neurogenic detrusor 
overactivity in the United States.

Carlson JJ(1), Hansen RN, Dmochowski RR, Globe DR, Colayco DC, Sullivan SD.

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research and Policy Program, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA. carlsojj@u.washington.edu

BACKGROUND: Urinary incontinence (UI) secondary to a neurogenic pathology, 
including spinal cord injury and multiple sclerosis, is termed neurogenic 
detrusor overactivity (NDO). Patients with NDO experience decreased quality of 
life and are at risk for upper urinary tract damage. Two recent trials 
demonstrated that onabotulinumtoxinA significantly reduced UI, improved 
urodynamic parameters, and improved quality of life relative to placebo. 
However, the economic impact of onabotulinumtoxinA treatment for UI due to NDO 
in the United States remains unknown.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this analysis was to evaluate whether the benefit 
observed in NDO patients receiving onabotulinumtoxinA provides good value for 
money.
METHODS: We developed a Markov state transition model to estimate population 
outcomes and costs for anticholinergic-refractory NDO patients who received 
either onabotulinumtoxinA or best supportive care (use of incontinence pads with 
either an anticholinergic drug, clean intermittent self-catheterization, or 
both). Nonresponding patients (<50% reduction in UI episodes at 6 weeks) were 
eligible to receive invasive procedures, including augmentation cystoplasty or 
sacral neuromodulation. Patients could transition through 6 health states, 3 
defined based on response to initial treatment, 2 capturing patients who 
underwent invasive procedures, and death. Time in each health state was adjusted 
for patient quality of life and summed to estimate quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). The model included direct medical costs related to initial and 
subsequent drug and invasive treatments, physician visits, and catheterization. 
Outcomes and costs were summed and compared across intervention groups by using 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER; cost per QALY). The time horizon 
of the model was 3 years, and results were discounted at 3%. Scenario, 1-way, 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to test the robustness of 
the model results.
RESULTS: In the base case, onabotulinumtoxinA increased QALYs by 0.059 and costs 
by $1466 compared with best supportive care, which resulted in an estimated ICER 
of $24,720/QALY. OnabotulinumtoxinA also decreased mean UI episodes per 
person-year by 398, resulting in a cost of $4 per UI episode avoided. Model 
results were most sensitive to the probability of treatment response. The 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that at a willingness to pay of 
$50,000/QALY, onabotulinumtoxinA has a 97% probability of being cost-effective. 
In subgroup analyses of each etiology, onabotulinumtoxinA yielded an ICER of 
$32,268/QALY in multiple sclerosis and $2182 in spinal cord injury.
CONCLUSION: OnabotulinumtoxinA seems to be a cost-effective intervention for UI 
due to NDO compared with best supportive care.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2013.02.020
PMID: 23522658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2013 May;208(5):376.e1-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2013.02.030.  Epub 2013 Mar 21.

Risk of stillbirth after 37 weeks in pregnancies complicated by 
small-for-gestational-age fetuses.

Trudell AS(1), Cahill AG, Tuuli MG, Macones GA, Odibo AO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA.

Comment in
    Evid Based Nurs. 2015 Jan;18(1):26.

OBJECTIVE: The evidence for delivering small-for-gestational-age (SGA) fetuses 
at 37 weeks remains conflicting. We examined the risk of stillbirth per week of 
gestation beyond 37 weeks for pregnancies complicated by SGA.
STUDY DESIGN: Singleton pregnancies undergoing routine second trimester 
ultrasound from 1990-2009 were examined retrospectively. The risk of stillbirth 
per 10,000 ongoing SGA pregnancies with 95% confidence intervals (CIs) was 
calculated for each week of gestation ≥37 weeks. Using a life-table analysis 
with correction for censoring, conditional risks of stillbirth, cumulative risks 
of stillbirth per 10,000 ongoing SGA pregnancies and relative risks (RRs) were 
calculated with 95% CIs for each week of gestation.
RESULTS: Among 57,195 pregnancies meeting inclusion criteria the background risk 
of stillbirth was 56/10,000 (95% CI, 42.3-72.7) with stillbirth risk for SGA 
pregnancies of 251/10,000 (95% CI, 221.2-284.5). The risk of stillbirth after 
the 37th week was greater compared with pregnancies delivered in the 37th week 
(47/10,000, 95% CI, 34.6-62.5 vs 21/10,000, 95% CI, 13.0-32.1; RR, 2.2; 95% CI, 
1.3-3.7). The cumulative risk of stillbirth rose from 28/10,000 ongoing SGA 
pregnancies at 37 weeks to 77/10,000 at 39 weeks (RR, 2.75; 95% CI, 1.79-4.2). 
Among pregnancies complicated by SGA <5% the cumulative risk of stillbirth at 38 
weeks was significantly greater than the risk at 37 weeks (RR, 2.3; 95% CI, 
1.4-3.8).
CONCLUSION: There is a significantly increased risk of stillbirth in pregnancies 
complicated by SGA delivered after the 37th week. Given these findings, we 
advocate a policy of delivery of SGA pregnancies 37-38 weeks.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2013.02.030
PMID: 23523099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Int J Hyg Environ Health. 2013 Nov;216(6):763-71. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijheh.2013.02.003. Epub 2013 Mar 7.

Yearly variations of demographic indices and mortality data in Italy from 1901 
to 2008 as related to the caloric intake.

Vercelli M(1), Lillini R, Quaglia A, La Maestra S, Micale RT, Caldora M, De 
Flora S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Genoa, 16132 Genoa, Italy.

The aim of the present study was to evaluate, by Join Point regression method, 
the yearly variations in demographic indices and mortality data in Italy from 
1901 to 2008, as related to the caloric intake. The relationships between 
mortality and caloric intake were studied by time series. The results showed 
that, from 1901 to 2008, the Italian population grew from 32.5 to 59.6 millions; 
the live births rates decreased from 31.8 to 10.1‰ (males) and from 33.3 to 9.0‰ 
(females); the infant mortality rates fell from 184.1 to 3.7‰ (males) and from 
149.4 to 3.2‰ (females); males and females gained 35.7 and 40.6 years in life 
expectancy at birth, respectively. In 1901 the 61% of deaths occurred in the 
youngest, whereas in 2008 the elderly accounted for the 80%. In 1901, in terms 
of age-adjusted data, other and undefined causes overcame the specific causes of 
death, whose rank was: respiratory, digestive, infectious, cardiovascular, 
cerebrovascular, cancers, accidents, endocrine, and nervous system diseases. In 
2008, undefined causes ranked 3rd (males) and 4th (females), while cancers 
became the leading cause of death, followed by cardiovascular, cerebrovascular, 
accidental, respiratory, endocrine, digestive, nervous system, and infectious 
diseases. The caloric intake showed a negative correlation with all-cause 
mortality, infant mortality, and mortality for a number of specific causes. 
These patterns reflect the progress in average nutritional status, lifestyle 
quality, socioeconomic level, and hygienic conditions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijheh.2013.02.003
PMID: 23523154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Jun;86:103-6. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.02.048. Epub
2013  Mar 14.

Repression, famines, and wars: major impacts of politics on population health.

Tapia Granados JA(1).

Author information:
(1)Social Environment & Health Program (SEH/SRC), Institute for Social Research, 
University of Michigan, Room 3320, 426 Thompson Street, Ann Arbor, Michigan 
48106-1248, United States. jatapia@umich.edu

Comment on
    Soc Sci Med. 2013 Apr;82:134-46.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.02.048
PMID: 23523264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Urology. 2013 May;81(5):998-1004. doi: 10.1016/j.urology.2012.11.069. Epub
2013  Mar 21.

Clinical judgment versus biomarker prostate cancer gene 3: which is best when 
determining the need for repeat prostate biopsy?

Tombal B(1), Andriole GL, de la Taille A, Gontero P, Haese A, Remzi M, Speakman 
M, Smets L, Stoevelaar H.

Author information:
(1)Cliniques universitaires Saint-Luc, Institut de Recherche Clinique, 
Université catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium. 
bertrand.tombal@uclouvain.be

Comment in
    Urology. 2013 May;81(5):1004.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the value of best clinical judgment (BCJ) and the prostate 
cancer gene 3 (PCA3) assay in guiding the decision to perform a repeat prostate 
biopsy (PBx) after a previous negative PBx.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using the RAND/UCLA Appropriateness Method, 12 European 
urologists established recommendations (BCJ) for the appropriateness of PBx 
according to the prostate-specific antigen level, digital rectal examination 
findings, number of previous negative PBxs, prostate volume, and life 
expectancy, with and without consideration of the PCA3 scores. These 
recommendations were applied to 1024 subjects receiving placebo in the Reduction 
by Dutasteride of Prostate Cancer Events trial, including men with a previous 
negative PBx, a baseline prostate-specific antigen level of 2.5-10 ng/mL, and a 
PCA3 test performed before the protocol-mandated 2- and 4-year repeat PBxs. 
Three scenarios (ie, BCJ alone, BCJ with PCA3, and the PCA3 score alone) were 
tested for their ability to reduce the repeat PBx rate versus missing Gleason 
sum ≥ 7 prostate cancer (PCa).
RESULTS: BCJ with PCA3 would have avoided 64% of repeat PBxs compared with 26% 
for BCJ alone and 55% for PCA3 alone (cutoff score 20). Of 55 PCa cases (Gleason 
sum ≥ 7), 13 would have been missed using BCJ alone compared with 7 using PCA3 
(cutoff score 20) alone and 8 using BCJ plus PCA3. The diagnostic accuracy for 
Gleason sum ≥ 7 PCa of the BCJ with PCA3 scenario was superior to that of the 
other scenarios, with a negative predictive value of 99%.
CONCLUSION: Application of the BCJ together with PCA3 testing can reduce the 
number of repeat PBxs while maintaining the sensitivity to detect Gleason sum ≥ 
7 PCa.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urology.2012.11.069
PMID: 23523291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2013 Dec;46(6):775-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.12.008. Epub 2013 Mar 22.

Clinical trial of a supportive care team for patients with advanced cancer.

Daly BJ(1), Douglas SL, Gunzler D, Lipson AR.

Author information:
(1)Case Western Reserve University, MetroHealth Medical Center, Cleveland, Ohio, 
USA. Electronic address: barbara.daly@case.edu.

CONTEXT: Encouraging use of hospice and minimizing the use of cure-oriented 
aggressive interventions that detract from quality of life in the last month of 
life are specific targets for improvement in cancer care.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the effect of an interdisciplinary cancer support team 
(CST) on quality of care and quality of life in patients with advanced cancers.
METHODS: A nonrandomized clinical trial was conducted, comparing outcomes before 
and after the integration of an interdisciplinary CST in routine care of adults 
with Stage III or IV lung, gastrointestinal, or gynecologic cancer. In the 
control arm, patients (n = 332) received usual care; after the initiation of the 
intervention arm, eligible patients (n = 278) received the CST intervention. The 
intervention consisted of individualized care coordination, symptom management, 
education, psychosocial and spiritual supports, and advance care planning 
throughout the 15-month study period. Quality of end-of-life care was measured 
through an "aggressiveness of care" index. Health-related quality of life 
(HRQOL) was measured with the Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy-General.
RESULTS: There were no statistically significant differences between groups on 
specific indicators of quality of care. Surviving subjects with higher survival 
expectancy (who also reported better baseline quality of life) in the 
intervention arm had the greatest improvement in HRQOL scores, compared with the 
other three groupings of survival expectancy by treatment group (high vs. low by 
intervention vs. control) (P = 0.044).
CONCLUSION: Individually tailored supportive services from an interdisciplinary 
team are associated with improved HRQOL in some patients. This has implications 
for the potential benefits that can be accrued from providing intensive support 
to all patients, even those who may appear to be at less risk for distress. 
There also are important methodological considerations in using aggressiveness 
of care indices as a measure of quality of care.

Copyright © 2013 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2012.12.008
PMCID: PMC3715594
PMID: 23523362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2013 Sep;1832(9):1410-20. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbadis.2013.03.011. Epub 2013 Mar 20.

Murine models of atrophy, cachexia, and sarcopenia in skeletal muscle.

Romanick M(1), Thompson LV, Brown-Borg HM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, University of North Dakota School of Medicine 
and Health Sciences, Grand Forks, ND 58203, USA.

With the extension of life span over the past several decades, the age-related 
loss of muscle mass and strength that characterizes sarcopenia is becoming more 
evident and thus, has a more significant impact on society. To determine ways to 
intervene and delay, or even arrest the physical frailty and dependence that 
accompany sarcopenia, it is necessary to identify those biochemical pathways 
that define this process. Animal models that mimic one or more of the 
physiological pathways involved with this phenomenon are very beneficial in 
providing an understanding of the cellular processes at work in sarcopenia. The 
ability to influence pathways through genetic manipulation gives insight into 
cellular responses and their impact on the physical expression of sarcopenia. 
This review evaluates several murine models that have the potential to elucidate 
biochemical processes integral to sarcopenia. Identifying animal models that 
reflect sarcopenia or its component pathways will enable researchers to better 
understand those pathways that contribute to age-related skeletal muscle mass 
loss, and in turn, develop interventions that will prevent, retard, arrest, or 
reverse this phenomenon. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: 
Animal Models of Disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2013.03.011
PMCID: PMC3687011
PMID: 23523469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2013 Sep;1834(9):1860-72. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbapap.2013.03.013. Epub 2013 Mar 20.

Tertiary and quaternary effects in the allosteric regulation of animal 
hemoglobins.

Ronda L(1), Bruno S, Bettati S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Parma, Parco Area delle Scienze 23/A, 
Parma, Italy.

In the last decade, protein allostery has experienced a major resurgence, 
boosted by the extension of the concept to systems of increasing complexity and 
by its exploitation for the development of drugs. Expansion of the field into 
new directions has not diminished the key role of hemoglobin as a test molecule 
for theory and experimental validation of allosteric models. Indeed, the 
diffusion of hemoglobins in all kingdoms of life and the variety of functions 
and of quaternary assemblies based on a common tertiary fold indicate that this 
superfamily of proteins is ideally suited for investigating the physical and 
molecular basis of allostery and firmly maintains its role as a main player in 
the field. This review is an attempt to briefly recollect common and different 
strategies adopted by metazoan hemoglobins, from monomeric molecules to giant 
complexes, exploiting homotropic and heterotropic allostery to increase their 
functional dynamic range. This article is part of a Special Issue entitled: 
Oxygen Binding and Sensing Proteins.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbapap.2013.03.013
PMID: 23523886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. J Ethnopharmacol. 2013 May 20;147(2):366-72. doi: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.03.019.
 Epub 2013 Mar 21.

Lifespan extension by n-butanol extract from seed of Platycladus orientalis in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Liu H(1), Liang F, Su W, Wang N, Lv M, Li P, Pei Z, Zhang Y, Xie XQ, Wang L, 
Wang Y.

Author information:
(1)Guangdong Key Laboratory of Plant Resources, Guangzhou Quality R&D Center of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, School of Life Science, Sun Yat-Sen University, 
Guangzhou 510275, PR China.

AIM OF THE STUDY: As a traditional Chinese medicine, seed of Platycladus 
orientalis(Linnaeus) Franco has been extensively used as a tonic and sedative 
remedy. The present study was conducted to investigate whether lifespan was 
extended and the mechanisms of n-butanol extract from seed of Platycladus 
orientalis (BSPO) in Caenorhabditis elegans. The findings could provide the 
pharmacological basis for a treatment in traditional medicine.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Lifespan extension by BSPO was evaluated under normal 
culture conditions and in a stress test. A possible mechanism of the anti-aging 
effect of BSPO, a change in the stress-resistance of related proteins, was also 
investigated in C. elegans.
RESULTS: It has been shown that BSPO could significantly extend lifespan of C. 
elegans in a concentration dependent manner under normal culture conditions and 
stress. Further studies demonstrated that BSPO treatment significantly decreased 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) accumulation, up-regulated resistance to stress of 
related proteins, including glutathione S-transferase-4 (GST-4) and heat shock 
protein-16.2 (HSP-16.2), and reduced the amount of lipofuscin in transgenic C. 
elegans.
CONCLUSION: These results indicated that BSPO extended the lifespan, which could 
be attributed to its direct ROS scavenging activity, reducing the amount of 
lipofuscin and increasing the expression of gens associated with resistance to 
stress. These obtained data provided valuable support for traditional clinical 
practice to extend lifespan and to provide tonic remedy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jep.2013.03.019
PMID: 23523941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2013 Jun;37(5):790-802. doi: 
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2013.03.005. Epub 2013 Mar 20.

The p66(Shc) gene paves the way for healthspan: evolutionary and mechanistic 
perspectives.

Berry A(1), Cirulli F.

Author information:
(1)Section of Behavioural Neurosciences, Department of Cell Biology and 
Neurosciences, Istituto Superiore di Sanità, Viale Regina Elena 299, I-00161 
Rome, Italy.

Life expectancy in the last century has greatly increased although, in most 
industrialized countries, this has been paralleled by an increased incidence of 
neurodegenerative disorders, in addition to cardiovascular and metabolic 
pathologies. The p66(Shc) gene has emerged as a novel gerontogene affecting 
