involvement in obesity management in primary care.

Karnon J(1), Ali Afzali HH, Gray J, Holton C, Banham D, Beilby J.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Public Health, School of Population Health, University of 
Adelaide, SA 5005, Australia. jonathan.karnon@adelaide.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: Controlled evaluations are subject to uncertainty regarding their 
replication in the real world, particularly around systems of service provision. 
Using routinely collected data, we undertook a risk adjusted cost-effectiveness 
(RAC-E) analysis of alternative applied models of primary health care for the 
management of obese adult patients. Models were based on the reported level of 
involvement of practice nurses (registered or enrolled nurses working in general 
practice) in the provision of clinical-based activities.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Linked, routinely collected clinical data describing 
clinical outcomes (weight, BMI, and obesity-related complications) and resource 
use (primary care, pharmaceutical, and hospital resource use) were collected. 
Potential confounders were controlled for using propensity weighted regression 
analyses.
RESULTS: Relative to low level involvement of practice nurses in the provision 
of clinical-based activities to obese patients, high level involvement was 
associated with lower costs and better outcomes (more patients losing weight, 
and larger mean reductions in BMI). Excluding hospital costs, high level 
practice nurse involvement was associated with slightly higher costs. 
Incrementally, the high level model gets one additional obese patient to lose 
weight at an additional cost of $6,741, and reduces mean BMI by an additional 
one point at an additional cost of $563 (upper 95% confidence interval $1,547).
CONCLUSION: Converted to quality adjusted life year (QALY) gains, the results 
provide a strong indication that increased involvement of practice nurses in 
clinical activities is associated with additional health benefits that are 
achieved at reasonable additional cost. Dissemination activities and incentives 
are required to encourage general practices to better integrate practice nurses 
in the active provision of clinical services.

Copyright © 2013 The Obesity Society.

DOI: 10.1002/oby.20100
PMID: 23592655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. No To Hattatsu. 2013 Jan;45(1):38-43.

[The relationship between the gross motor function and the causes of death in 
persons with severe motor and intellectual disabilities].

[Article in Japanese]

Fukuda K(1), Nakagawa Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropediatrics, Asada General Hospital, Marugame, Kagawa. 
cygnus@orange.ocn.ne.jp

OBJECTIVE: We investigated the relationship between the gross motor function and 
the causes of death and complications in persons with severe motor and 
intellectual disabilities (SMID).
METHODS: The causes of death, complications and ages of the 777 patients who had 
been admitted to the wards for persons with SMID in institutions involved in the 
national hospital organization and died from 1999 to 2008, were reported. Of 
these patients, 679 patients had data available. The patients were divided into 
4 groups; group A (479 cases who could not roll over), group B (31 cases who 
could roll over but could not sit up), group C (53 cases who could sit up but 
could not stand up), and group D (22 cases who could stand up but could not walk 
without support).
RESULTS: The frequency of swallowing disturbance in group A was significantly 
higher than that in the other groups, while the frequency of gastroesophageal 
reflux was significantly lower in group C than in groups A and B. The percentage 
of tube feeding in group A was higher than that in the other groups. The 
differenc between groups A and C was statistically significant. The frequency of 
tracheotomy in group B was significantly lower than in group A and there were no 
cases of tracheotomy in groups C and D. Concerning the causes of death, the 
percentages of respiratory disorders in groups A, B, C, D were 52.4, 32.3, 35.8, 
31.8, respectively. The mean age of death in group A was about 10 years younger 
than in the other groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The gross motor function predicted the likelihood of respiratory 
and digestive systems complications and was related to life expectancy.

PMID: 23593744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Int J Neurosci. 2013 Oct;123(10):724-31. doi: 10.3109/00207454.2013.796552.
Epub  2013 May 21.

Epidemiology and disease burden of ischemic stroke in Taiwan.

Chen CY(1), Huang YB, Tzu-Chi Lee C.

Author information:
(1)1School of Pharmacy, Kaohsiung Medical University , Kaohsiung , Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The incidence and prevalence of ischemic stroke (IS) are increasing 
in Asian countries. We conducted this retrospective database research to 
investigate epidemiology and disease burden of IS in Taiwan.
METHODS: We identified cases from the National Health Insurance Research 
Database during period from 2000 to 2005 to calculate prevalence and mortality. 
We analyzed the relationship between disease burden and gender in Taiwan during 
the period from 2000 to 2005 using Dismod II.
RESULTS: From study period, stroke mortality increased from 50 to 2300 per 
100 000 among individuals aged 50-90 years, with a higher prevalence among 
females than males. The highest prevalence was observed among men aged 80-84 
years, but prevalence among women was highest in patients aged >85 years. The 
burden of stroke during the period per 1000 population was estimated as follows: 
the sum of the years of life lost as a result of premature mortality of 55-80 
years, years lost as a result of disability of 11-19 years, and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) of 70-80 years. Most of the DALYs of 
stroke occurred among those aged 65-69 years. The DALY value was higher among 
women than among men before 2005; there was no clear trend in 2005.
CONCLUSIONS: Stroke is a significant health concern in Taiwan. The associated 
disease burden was found to increase each year, especially among individuals 
aged 65-69 years. Overall, the DALY value increased from 2000 to 2005, which 
suggests that the associated disease burden will continue to increase over time.

DOI: 10.3109/00207454.2013.796552
PMID: 23594118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Knee Surg Sports Traumatol Arthrosc. 2014 May;22(5):1061-9. doi: 
10.1007/s00167-013-2466-3. Epub 2013 Apr 18.

Long-term follow-up of ACL reconstruction with hamstring autograft.

Leiter JR(1), Gourlay R, McRae S, de Korompay N, MacDonald PB.

Author information:
(1)Pan Am Clinic Foundation, 75 Poseidon Bay, Winnipeg, MB, R3M 3E4, Canada, 
jleiter@panamclinic.com.

PURPOSE: To investigate the differences in the incidence and severity of knee 
osteoarthritis (OA), joint space narrowing, knee laxity, and knee flexion and 
extension strength between an anterior cruciate ligament (ACL)-reconstructed 
knee and the contralateral non-reconstructed limb.
METHODS: Retrospective case series of patients from a single surgeon that had an 
ACL reconstruction with a semitendinosus/gracilis autograft more than 12 years 
ago. Outcome measures included radiographic analysis, International Knee 
Documentation Committee Subjective Knee Evaluation Form (IKDC), KT-1000, Tegner 
Activity Level Scale, Lysholm Knee Score, ACL quality of life score (ACL-QOL) 
and knee flexor/extensor strength.
RESULTS: Seventy-four patients consented and sixty-eight (43 male, 25 female) 
were included for analysis. Average age (SD) at the time of surgery was 31.2 
(±9.1) years. At follow-up of 14.6 (1.9) years, 9% had re-ruptured their ACL, 
whereas 5% ruptured the contralateral ACL. Reconstructed knees had a greater 
incidence and severity of OA (P < 0.01). Medial meniscus surgery was a strong 
predictor of OA. Seventy-five per cent scored a normal or nearly normal knee on 
the IKDC. The mean Lysholm score was 75.8% and Tegner Activity Level Scale 
scores decreased (P < 0.001) from the time of surgery. Knee extension strength 
was greater in the contralateral knee at speeds of 60°/s (P = 0.014) and 150°/s 
(P = 0.012).
CONCLUSIONS: Reconstructed knees have a greater incidence and severity of OA 
than non-reconstructed knees, which suggests degenerative changes are secondary 
to ACL rupture. Medial meniscus surgery is a strong predictor of OA. Despite 
this, 75% of patients reported good outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s00167-013-2466-3
PMID: 23595537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Heart Fail Rev. 2014 May;19(3):341-58. doi: 10.1007/s10741-013-9392-9.

Functional mitral regurgitation: a 30-year unresolved surgical journey from 
valve replacement to complex valve repairs.

Onorati F(1), Santini F, Dandale R, Rossi A, Campopiano E, Pechlivanidis K, 
Calzaferri D, Milano A, Mazzucco A, Faggian G.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiac Surgery, University of Verona Medical School, Piazzale 
Stefani, 1, 37126, Verona, Italy, frankono@libero.it.

Functional mitral regurgitation remains one of the most complex and 
controversial aspect--for both clinicians and surgeons--in the management of 
mitral valve disease in the context of left ventricular dysfunction. Given the 
current absence of clear guidelines, as well as of results from randomized 
trials comparing the outcome of different surgical strategies potentially 
available for this complex scenario, surgical decision making for these 
high-risk patients poses a real dilemma in the daily practice. The resulting 
surgical choices often represent a questionable combination of surgeons' 
personal feeling, local supplies, patients' life expectancy and risk/benefit 
ratios, opinions and statements of the experts, and so on. This review provides 
an overview of the present knowledge about the complex pathophysiology 
underlying functional mitral regurgitation, the different pathophysiology-guided 
surgical techniques suggested in the last decades, as well as the current 
results following these different surgical techniques.

DOI: 10.1007/s10741-013-9392-9
PMID: 23595827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Clin Cardiol. 2013 Jul;36(7):407-13. doi: 10.1002/clc.22130. Epub 2013 Apr
17.

Cost-effectiveness of paclitaxel-coated balloon angioplasty in patients with 
drug-eluting stent restenosis.

Dorenkamp M(1), Boldt J, Leber AW, Sohns C, Roser M, Boldt LH, Haverkamp W, 
Bonaventura K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Charité- Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Campus 
Virchow-Klinikum, Berlin, Germany. marc.dorenkamp@charite.de

BACKGROUND: The economic impact of drug-eluting stent (DES) in-stent restenosis 
(ISR) is substantial, highlighting the need for cost-effective treatment 
strategies.
HYPOTHESIS: Compared to plain old balloon angioplasty (POBA) or repeat DES 
implantation, drug-coated balloon (DCB) angioplasty is a cost-effective therapy 
for DES-ISR.
METHODS: A Markov state-transition model was used to compare DCB angioplasty 
with POBA and repeat DES implantation. Model input parameters were obtained from 
the literature, and the cost analysis was conducted from a German healthcare 
payer's perspective. Extensive sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Initial procedure costs amounted to €3488 for DCB angioplasty and to 
€2782 for POBA. Over a 6-month time horizon, the DCB strategy was less costly 
(€4028 vs €4169) and more effective in terms of life-years (LYs) gained (0.497 
versus 0.489) than POBA. The DES strategy incurred initial costs of €3167 and 
resulted in 0.494 LYs gained, at total costs of €4101 after a 6-month follow-up. 
Thus, DCB angioplasty was the least costly and most effective strategy. 
Base-case results were influenced mostly by initial procedure costs, target 
lesion revascularization rates, and the costs of dual antiplatelet therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: DCB angioplasty is a cost-effective treatment option for coronary 
DES-ISR. The higher initial costs of the DCB strategy compared to POBA or repeat 
DES implantation are offset by later cost savings.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.22130
PMCID: PMC6649637
PMID: 23595957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013 May;98(5):1991-2000. doi:
10.1210/jc.2013-1034.  Epub 2013 Apr 17.

Cost-effectiveness of two inexpensive postfracture osteoporosis interventions: 
results of a randomized trial.

Majumdar SR(1), Lier DA, Leslie WD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Alberta, and the Institute of Health 
Economics, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada T6G 2B7.

BACKGROUND: Most older patients are not treated for osteoporosis after fragility 
fracture. In a 3-armed randomized trial, we reported that 2 inexpensive 
mail-based interventions, one directed at physicians and the other at physicians 
plus patients, increased 1-year osteoporosis treatment starts by 4% and 6% 
(respectively) compared with usual care starts of 11%. The cost-effectiveness of 
these interventions is unknown.
METHODS: The incremental cost-effectiveness of interventions compared with usual 
care was assessed using Markov decision-analytic models. Costs were expressed in 
2010 Canadian dollars and long-term effectiveness based on quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) gained derived from hypothetical model simulations. The 
perspective was third-party health care payer; the time horizon was lifetime; 
and the costs and benefits were discounted 3%.
RESULTS: The physician intervention cost was $7.12 per patient, whereas the 
physician plus patient intervention cost was $8.45. Compared with usual care, 
the economic simulation demonstrated that for every 1000 patients getting the 
physician intervention, there were 2 fewer fractures, 2 more QALYs gained, and 
$22,000 saved. Compared with physician intervention, the simulation demonstrated 
that for every 1000 patients receiving physician plus patient intervention, 
there was 1 fewer fracture and 1 more QALY gained, with $18,000 saved. Both 
interventions dominated usual care and were cost saving or highly cost effective 
in 67% of 10 000 probabilistic simulations. Although the physician plus patient 
intervention cost was $1.33 more per patient than the physician intervention, it 
was still the most economically attractive option.
CONCLUSIONS: Pragmatic mail-based interventions directed at patients with recent 
fractures and their physicians are a highly cost-effective means to improving 
osteoporosis management and both interventions dominated usual care.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2013-1034
PMID: 23596140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. QJM. 2013 Jun;106(6):517-21. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hct077. Epub 2013 Apr 17.

Death in The New York Times: the price of fame is a faster flame.

Epstein CR(1), Epstein RJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, University of Queensland, Herston St, Herston, Brisbane, 
4006 Australia. repstein@stvincents.com.au

BACKGROUND: Occupational factors have long been linked to patterns of mortality.
AIM: Based on the premiss that an obituary in The New York Times (NYT) tends to 
imply success in one's vocation, we used NYT obituary data to elucidate the 
relationships between career success, terminal disease frequency and longevity.
DESIGN: One thousand consecutive obituaries published in NYT over the period 
2009-11 were analysed in terms of gender, occupation and terminal disease, as 
attributed.
METHODS: The frequency of disease for each occupational category was determined, 
and the mean age of death was calculated for each disease and occupational 
subgroup.
RESULTS: Male obituaries outnumbered female (813 vs. 186), and the mean age of 
death was higher for males than females (80.4 ± 0.4 vs. 78.8 ± 1.1 years). 
Younger ages of death were evident in sports players (77.4 years), performers 
(77.1) and creative workers (78.5), whereas older deaths were seen in military 
(84.7), business (83.3) and political (82.1) workers. Younger deaths were more 
often associated with accidents (66.2 years), infection (68.6) and 
organ-specified cancers (73.0). 'Old age' was more often the cited cause of 
death for philanthropists, academics and doctors, and less often for sportsmen, 
performers and creatives. Cancer deaths occurred most often in performers and 
creatives, with lung cancer commonest among performers and least common in 
professionals.
CONCLUSION: Fame and achievement in performance-related careers may be earned at 
the cost of a shorter life expectancy. In such careers, smoking and other risk 
behaviours may be either causes or effects of success and/or early death.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hct077
PMID: 23596265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 15;8(4):e61813. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061813. Print 
2013.

Life span evolution in eusocial workers--a theoretical approach to understanding 
the effects of extrinsic mortality in a hierarchical system.

Kramer BH(1), Schaible R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Evolutionary Biodemography, Max Planck Institute for 
Demographic Research, Rostock, Mecklenburg-West Pomerania, Germany. 
kramer@demogr.mpg.de

While the extraordinary life span of queens and division of labor in eusocial 
societies have been well studied, it is less clear which selective forces act on 
the short life span of workers. The disparity of life span between the queen and 
the workers is linked to a basic issue in sociobiology: How are the resources in 
a colony allocated between colony maintenance and reproduction? Resources for 
somatic maintenance of the colony can either be invested into quality or 
quantity of workers. Here, we present a theoretical optimization model that uses 
a hierarchical trade-off within insect colonies and extrinsic mortality to 
explain how different aging phenotypes could have evolved to keep resources 
secure in the colony. The model points to the significance of two factors. 
First, any investment that would generate a longer intrinsic life span for 
workers is lost if the individual dies from external causes while foraging. As a 
consequence, risky environments favor the evolution of workers with a shorter 
life span. Second, shorter-lived workers require less investment than long-lived 
ones, allowing the colony to allocate these resources to sexual reproduction or 
colony growth.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061813
PMCID: PMC3626611
PMID: 23596527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


815. Leuk Lymphoma. 2014 Jan;55(1):56-62. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2013.796046. Epub
 2013 May 29.

Granulocyte colony-stimulating factor as secondary prophylaxis of febrile 
neutropenia in the management of advanced-stage Hodgkin lymphoma treated with 
adriamycin, bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine chemotherapy: a decision 
analysis.

Graczyk J(1), Cheung MC, Buckstein R, Chan K.

Author information:
(1)Odette Cancer Centre, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Division of 
Hematology/Oncology , Toronto , Canada.

Current practice guidelines are unclear regarding the role of secondary 
prophylaxis of febrile neutropenia in advanced-stage Hodgkin lymphoma despite 
several small retrospective studies that demonstrate the omission of growth 
factors to be a safe and economic practice. We used a decision-analytic model to 
compare secondary prophylaxis with granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF) 
to no G-CSF with the onset of severe neutropenia for a hypothetical cohort of 
patients with advanced-stage Hodgkin lymphoma treated with adriamycin, 
bleomycin, vinblastine and dacarbazine (ABVD). There was a net benefit of 0.017 
years and 0.037 quality-adjusted life years for no G-CSF use in severe 
neutropenia. On microsimulation (10 000 trials), 96% of the simulations showed 
that the no G-CSF strategy is preferred to the use of G-CSF. This finding was 
robust across a wide range of sensitivity analyses. Our analysis suggests that 
G-CSF not be used as secondary prophylaxis of febrile neutropenia in 
advanced-stage Hodgkin lymphoma.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2013.796046
PMID: 23597142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Curr Cardiol Rev. 2013 May;9(2):128-46. doi: 10.2174/1573403x11309020006.

Heart failure in North America.

Blair JE(1), Huffman M, Shah SJ.

Author information:
(1)San Antonio Military Medical Center, San Antonio, TX, USA. Jblair1@gmail.com

Heart failure is a major health problem that affects patients and healthcare 
systems worldwide. Within the continent of North America, differences in 
economic development, genetic susceptibility, cultural practices, and trends in 
risk factors and treatment all contribute to both inter-continental and 
within-continent differences in heart failure. The United States and Canada 
represent industrialized countries with similar culture, geography, and advanced 
economies and infrastructure. During the epidemiologic transition from rural to 
industrial in countries such as the United States and Canada, nutritional 
deficiencies and infectious diseases made way for degenerative diseases such as 
cardiovascular diseases, cancer, overweight/obesity, and diabetes. This in turn 
has resulted in an increase in heart failure incidence in these countries, 
especially as overall life expectancy increases. Mexico, on the other hand, has 
a less developed economy and infrastructure, and has a wide distribution in the 
level of urbanization as it becomes more industrialized. Mexico is under a 
period of epidemiologic transition and the etiology and incidence of heart 
failure is rapidly changing. Ethnic differences within the populations of the 
United States and Canada highlight the changing demographics of each country as 
well as potential disparities in heart failure care. Heart failure with 
preserved ejection fraction makes up approximately half of all hospital 
admissions throughout North America; however, important differences in 
demographics and etiology exist between countries. Similarly, acute heart 
failure etiology, severity, and management differ between countries in North 
America. The overall economic burden of heart failure continues to be large and 
growing worldwide, with each country managing this burden differently. 
Understanding the inter-and within-continental differences may help improve 
understanding of the heart failure epidemic, and may aid healthcare systems in 
delivering better heart failure prevention and treatment.

DOI: 10.2174/1573403x11309020006
PMCID: PMC3682397
PMID: 23597296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Pediatr Neonatol. 2015 Apr;56(2):126-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pedneo.2013.03.003.
Epub  2013 Apr 13.

Neonatal infected subgaleal hematoma: an unusual complication of early-onset E. 
coli sepsis.

Chang HY(1), Cheng KS(2), Liu YP(3), Hung HF(4), Fu HW(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Mackay Memorial Hospital, Hsinchu Branch, Hsinchu, 
Taiwan; Department of Medical Technology, Jen-Teh Junior College of Medicine, 
Nursing and Management, Miaoli, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
a4583@ms7.mmh.org.tw.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Mackay Memorial Hospital, Hsinchu Branch, Hsinchu, 
Taiwan.
(3)Department of Radiology, Mackay Memorial Hospital, Hsinchu Branch, Hsinchu, 
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Medical Technology, Jen-Teh Junior College of Medicine, Nursing 
and Management, Miaoli, Taiwan; Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology, 
Department of Life Science, National Tsinghua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan.
(5)Institute of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Department of Life Science, 
National Tsinghua University, Hsinchu, Taiwan.

Subgaleal hematoma (SGH) is an uncommon but potentially lethal medical emergency 
in newborns. Delay in diagnosis may lead to mortality and morbidity. Infection 
of an SGH is extremely rare. We report an infected SGH with abscess formation as 
a complication of early-onset Escherichia coli sepsis in a term neonate. The 
patient was discovered to have SGH soon after birth. Early-onset E. coli sepsis 
developed on Day 3 of life. The SGH became infected, with abscess formation 1 
week later. The infected SGH was probably due to direct hematogenous spreading 
of sepsis. The patient was successfully treated without complications. 
Clinicians should be aware that SGH is a potential site of infection and 
infection may be caused either by direct hematogenous extension or from 
traumatic scalp lesions. Appropriate antibiotic treatment and surgical 
debridement are necessary when an infected SGH occurs.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pedneo.2013.03.003
PMID: 23597516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. Transfus Apher Sci. 2013 Apr;48(2):203-6. doi:
10.1016/j.transci.2013.02.003.  Epub 2013 Apr 15.

The lower the better: target values after LDL-Apheresis and semi-selective 
LDL-elimination therapies.

Borberg H(1).

Author information:
(1)German Haemapheresis Centre, Deutsches Haemapherese Zentrum, Maarweg 165, 
Cologne, Germany. hb@dhzcologne.de

Comment in
    Transfus Apher Sci. 2013 Apr;48(2):127.

Prior to 1980 the drug therapy of hereditary hypercholesterolaemia was, as 
compared to nowadays standards, rather limited. There was virtually no effective 
therapy for homozygous patients, though plasma exchange introduced in France and 
Britain, demonstrated the use-fullness of the introduction of apheresis 
techniques. Parallel to the improvement of cholesterol lowering drug therapy for 
heterozygous patients, apheresis was developed as therapeutic affinity 
chromatography since 1980 at the university of Cologne for both homozygous and 
therapy refractory heterozygous patients. This development was named 
LDL-Apheresis based on the specificity for the removal of Apoprotein B bound 
cholesterol, the capacity due to the development of a repetitive cycling 
technique and the economy determined from the reuse of affinity chromatography 
columns for each single patient. The capacity of the system allowed for the 
introduction of new standards of post-treatment values such as 100mg/dl total 
cholesterol or alternatively 50mg/dl LDL-cholesterol and if cholesterol lowering 
drugs can also applied for a limited extent the rebound can be also slowed down. 
After 33 years of experience with seven homozygotes and 32 heterozygotes without 
treatment alternative, we found that in addition to the improvement of the 
quality of live the extension of live expectancy are the real proof of a 
therapeutic success as compared to other diagnostic procedures. The average live 
expectancy of our seven homozygous patients is 45.6 years; our oldest 
heterozygous patient is 81 years. There are no comparable long term data at 
present available neither from studies using drugs nor from subsequently 
developed apheresis techniques which also removed LDL-cholesterol together with 
plasma constituents not participating in the development of atherosclerosis. 
Also two homozygous patients giving birth to four children without complication 
support our concept of aggressive cholesterol lowering therapy being without 
major side effects (3-4% minor undesired reactions).

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transci.2013.02.003
PMID: 23597601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Rheum Dis Clin North Am. 2013 May;39(2):431-55. doi:
10.1016/j.rdc.2013.03.004.

Mucopolysaccharidoses and other lysosomal storage diseases.

Lampe C(1), Bellettato CM, Karabul N, Scarpa M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric and Adolescent Medicine, Villa Metabolica, University 
Medical Center of the Johannes Gutenberg, University of Mainz, Langenbeckstrasse 
2, Mainz 55131, Germany. christina.lampe@unimedizin-mainz.de

Mucopolysaccharidosis and other lysosomal storage diseases are rare, chronic, 
and progressive inherited diseases caused by a deficit of lysosomal enzymes. 
Patients are affected by a wide variety of symptoms. For some lysosomal storage 
diseases, effective treatments to arrest disease progression, or slow the 
pathologic process, and increase patient life expectancy are available or being 
developed. Timely diagnosis is crucial. Rheumatologists, orthopedics, and 
neurologists are commonly consulted due to unspecific musculoskeletal signs and 
symptoms. Pain, stiffness, contractures of joints in absence of clinical signs 
of inflammation, bone pain or abnormalities, osteopenia, osteonecrosis, 
secondary osteoarthritis or hip dysplasia are the alerting symptoms that should 
induce suspicion of a lysosomal storage disease.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rdc.2013.03.004
PMID: 23597973 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Age (Dordr). 2005 Mar;27(1):39-48. doi: 10.1007/s11357-005-3284-4. Epub 2005
May  2.

Caloric restriction versus drug therapy to delay the onset of aging diseases and 
extend life.

Everitt AV(1), Roth GS, Le Couteur DG, Hilmer SN.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Education and Research on Ageing, ANZAC Research Institute, 
Concord Hospital, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia ; School of Medical 
Sciences, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

There are two firmly established methods of prolonging life. Calorie restriction 
(CR) using nutrient-rich diets to prolong life in lower animals, and life saving 
medications in humans to delay the development of the major diseases of middle 
and old age. These two approaches have different mechanisms of action. In rats, 
CR at 40% below ad libitum intake begun soon after weaning and continued until 
death, reduces body weight by about 40% and increases lifespan. There have been 
no lifelong CR studies performed on humans. However, in healthy adult human 
subjects about 20% CR over a period of 2-15 years, lowers body weight by about 
20% and decreases body mass index (BMI) to about 19. This CR treatment in humans 
reduces blood pressure and blood cholesterol to a similar extent as the specific 
drugs used to delay the onset of vascular disease and so extend human life. 
These same drugs may act by mechanisms that overlap with some of the mechanisms 
of CR in retarding these pathologies and thus may have similar antiaging and 
life prolonging actions. Such drugs may be regarded as CR mimetics which inhibit 
the development of certain life shortening diseases, without the need to lower 
calorie intake. In developed countries, better medical care, drug therapy, 
vaccinations, and other public health measures have extended human life by about 
30 years during the 20th century without recourse to CR, which is so effective 
in the rat. The percentage gain in human life expectancy during the 20th century 
is twice that achieved by CR in rat survival. However, rat longevity studies now 
use specific pathogen-free animals and start CR after weaning or later, thereby 
excluding deaths from infectious diseases and those associated with birth and 
early life. There is a need to develop CR mimetics which can delay the 
development of life-threatening diseases in humans. In the 21st century due to 
the human epidemic of overeating with a sedentary lifestyle, it may necessary to 
utilize CR to counter the aging effects of overweight. Since the greatest 
life-extending effects of CR in the rodent occur when started early in life, 
long-term antiaging therapy in humans should be initiated soon after maturity, 
when physiological systems have developed optimally.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-005-3284-4
PMCID: PMC3456093
PMID: 23598602


821. Age (Dordr). 2006 Mar;28(1):93-109. doi: 10.1007/s11357-006-9002-z. Epub
2006  May 23.

You don't need a weatherman: famines, evolution, and intervention into aging.

Rae MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Calorie Restriction Society, Society Cohort Study Team, 1827 W. 145th St, 
Suite 205, Gardena, CA 90249 USA.

Calorie restriction (CR) is the most robust available intervention into 
biological aging. Efforts are underway to develop pharmaceuticals that would 
replicate CR's anti-aging effects in humans ("CR mimetics"), on the assumption 
that the life- and healthspan-extending effects of CR in lower organisms will be 
proportionally extrapolable to humans (the "proportionality principle" (PP)). A 
recent argument from evolutionary theory (the "weather hypothesis" (WH)) 
suggests that CR (or its mimetics) will only provide 2-3 years of extended 
healthy lifespan in humans. The extension of healthy human lifespan that would 
be afforded by intervention into aging makes it crucial that resources for 
therapeutic development be optimally allocated; CR mimetics being the main 
direction being pursued for interventive biogerontology, this paper evaluates 
the challenge to the potential efficacy of CR mimetics posed by the WH, on a 
theoretical level and by reference to the available interspecies data on CR. 
Rodent data suggest that the anti-aging effects of CR continue to increase in 
inverse proportion to the degree of energy restriction imposed, well below the 
level that would be expected to be survivable under the conditions under which 
the mechanisms of CR evolved and are maintained in the wild. Moreover, the same 
increase in anti-aging effects continues well below the point at which it 
interferes with reproductive function. Both of these facts are in accordance 
with the predictions of evolutionary theory. Granted these facts, the 
interspecies data-including data available in humans-are consistent with the 
predictions of PP rather than those of the WH. This suggests that humans will 
respond to a high degree of CR (or its pharmaceutical simulation) with a 
proportional deceleration of aging, so that CR mimetics should be as effective 
in humans as CR itself is in the rodent model. Despite this fact, CR mimetics 
should not be the focus of biomedical gerontology, as strategies based on the 
direct targeting of the molecular lesions of aging are likely to lead to more 
rapidly developable and far more effective anti-aging biomedicines.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-006-9002-z
PMCID: PMC2464717
PMID: 23598682


822. Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Jun;43(3):691-702. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyt010. Epub 2013
Apr  18.

Cohort profile: Antiretroviral Therapy Cohort Collaboration (ART-CC).

May MT(1), Ingle SM(2), Costagliola D(2), Justice AC(3), de Wolf F(2), Cavassini 
M(2), D'Arminio Monforte A(2), Casabona J(2), Hogg RS(3), Mocroft A(2), Lampe 
FC(2), Dabis F(2), Fätkenheuer G(2), Sterling TR(2), del Amo J(2), Gill MJ(2), 
Crane HM(2), Saag MS(2), Guest J(2), Brodt HR(2), Sterne JA(2); Antiretroviral 
Cohort Collaboration.

Collaborators: Boulle A, Brodt HR, Casabona J, Cavassini M, Chêne G, Costagliola 
D, Dabis F, D'Arminio Monforte A, del Amo J, de Wolf F, Fätkenheuer G, Gill J, 
Guest J, Hans-Ulrich Haerry D, Hogg R, Justice A, Mocroft A, Kitahata M, Lampe 
F, Reiss P, Saag M, Sterling T, Williams M, Zangerle R, Sterne J, May M, Ingle 
S.

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK, 
UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S 943, F-75013, Paris, France; INSERM, UMR_S 943, 
F-75013, Paris, France; AP-HP, Hôpital Pitié-Salpétrière, Service des maladies 
infectieuses et tropicales, F-75013, Paris, France, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA, VA Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, CT, 
USA, Academisch Medisch Centrum bij de Universiteit van Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands, University Hospital Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland, Clinic of 
Infectious Diseases & Tropical Medicine, San Paolo Hospital, University of 
Milan, Italy, Centre d'Estudis Epidemiològics sobre ITS/VIH/SIDA de Catalunya, 
Badalona, Spain, Division of Epidemiology and Population Health, British 
Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Vancouver, Canada, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, Canada, Research Department of 
Infection and Population Health, UCL Medical School, London, UK, INSERM U.897, 
ISPED, Université Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France, Department of Internal Medicine 
University of Cologne, DE, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
TN, USA, National Epidemiology Center. Carlos III Health Institute, Madrid, 
Spain, Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada, 
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA, Division of 
Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, University of Alabama, Birmingham, 
USA, HIV Atlanta VA Cohort Study (HAVACS), Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, Decatur, GA, USA and Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universität, HIVCENTER, 
Frankfurt, Germany m.t.may@bristol.ac.uk.
(2)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK, 
UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S 943, F-75013, Paris, France; INSERM, UMR_S 943, 
F-75013, Paris, France; AP-HP, Hôpital Pitié-Salpétrière, Service des maladies 
infectieuses et tropicales, F-75013, Paris, France, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA, VA Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, CT, 
USA, Academisch Medisch Centrum bij de Universiteit van Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands, University Hospital Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland, Clinic of 
Infectious Diseases & Tropical Medicine, San Paolo Hospital, University of 
Milan, Italy, Centre d'Estudis Epidemiològics sobre ITS/VIH/SIDA de Catalunya, 
Badalona, Spain, Division of Epidemiology and Population Health, British 
Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Vancouver, Canada, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, Canada, Research Department of 
Infection and Population Health, UCL Medical School, London, UK, INSERM U.897, 
ISPED, Université Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France, Department of Internal Medicine 
University of Cologne, DE, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
TN, USA, National Epidemiology Center. Carlos III Health Institute, Madrid, 
Spain, Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada, 
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA, Division of 
Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, University of Alabama, Birmingham, 
USA, HIV Atlanta VA Cohort Study (HAVACS), Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, Decatur, GA, USA and Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universität, HIVCENTER, 
Frankfurt, Germany.
(3)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, UK, 
UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S 943, F-75013, Paris, France; INSERM, UMR_S 943, 
F-75013, Paris, France; AP-HP, Hôpital Pitié-Salpétrière, Service des maladies 
infectieuses et tropicales, F-75013, Paris, France, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA, VA Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, CT, 
USA, Academisch Medisch Centrum bij de Universiteit van Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands, University Hospital Lausanne, Lausanne, Switzerland, Clinic of 
Infectious Diseases & Tropical Medicine, San Paolo Hospital, University of 
Milan, Italy, Centre d'Estudis Epidemiològics sobre ITS/VIH/SIDA de Catalunya, 
Badalona, Spain, Division of Epidemiology and Population Health, British 
Columbia Centre for Excellence in HIV/AIDS, Vancouver, Canada, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Simon Fraser University, Burnaby, Canada, Research Department of 
Infection and Population Health, UCL Medical School, London, UK, INSERM U.897, 
ISPED, Université Bordeaux, Bordeaux, France, Department of Internal Medicine 
University of Cologne, DE, Vanderbilt University School of Medicine, Nashville, 
TN, USA, National Epidemiology Center. Carlos III Health Institute, Madrid, 
Spain, Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Calgary, Calgary, Canada, 
University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, WA, USA, Division of 
Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, University of Alabama, Birmingham, 
USA, HIV Atlanta VA Cohort Study (HAVACS), Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, Decatur, GA, USA and Johann Wolfgang Goethe-Universität, HIVCENTER, 
Frankfurt, GermanySchool of Social and Community Medicine, University of 
Bristol, Bristol, UK, UPMC Univ Paris 06, UMR_S 943, F-75013, Paris, France; 
INSERM, UMR_S 943, F-75013, Paris, France; AP-HP, Hôpital Pitié-Salpétrière, 
Service des maladies infectieuses et tropicales, F-75013, Paris, France, Yale 
University School of Medicine, New Haven, CT, USA, VA Co

The advent of effective combination antiretroviral therapy (ART) in 1996 
resulted in fewer patients experiencing clinical events, so that some prognostic 
analyses of individual cohort studies of human immunodeficiency virus-infected 
individuals had low statistical power. Because of this, the Antiretroviral 
Therapy Cohort Collaboration (ART-CC) of HIV cohort studies in Europe and North 
America was established in 2000, with the aim of studying the prognosis for 
clinical events in acquired immune deficiency syndrome (AIDS) and the mortality 
of adult patients treated for HIV-1 infection. In 2002, the ART-CC collected 
data on more than 12,000 patients in 13 cohorts who had begun combination ART 
between 1995 and 2001. Subsequent updates took place in 2004, 2006, 2008, and 
2010. The ART-CC data base now includes data on more than 70,000 patients 
participating in 19 cohorts who began treatment before the end of 2009. Data are 
collected on patient demographics (e.g. sex, age, assumed transmission group, 
race/ethnicity, geographical origin), HIV biomarkers (e.g. CD4 cell count, 
plasma viral load of HIV-1), ART regimen, dates and types of AIDS events, and 
dates and causes of death. In recent years, additional data on co-infections 
such as hepatitis C; risk factors such as smoking, alcohol and drug use; non-HIV 
biomarkers such as haemoglobin and liver enzymes; and adherence to ART have been 
collected whenever available. The data remain the property of the contributing 
cohorts, whose representatives manage the ART-CC via the steering committee of 
the Collaboration. External collaboration is welcomed. Details of contacts are 
given on the ART-CC website (www.art-cohort-collaboration.org).

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the International 
Epidemiological Association © The Author 2013; all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyt010
PMCID: PMC4052127
PMID: 23599235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2013 May 13;54(5):3394-9. doi:
10.1167/iovs.12-11549.

Cost-effectiveness of treating normal tension glaucoma.

Li EY(1), Tham CC, Chi SC, Lam DS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China. emmyli@gmail.com

PURPOSE: To assess the long-term cost-effectiveness of treating normal tension 
glaucoma (NTG).
METHODS: A Markov decision-analytic health model was developed to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of treating NTG with IOP lowering therapy to prevent 
progressive visual field loss. Transitional probabilities were derived from the 
Collaborative Normal Tension Glaucoma Study and cost data obtained from the 
literature and the Medicare fee schedule. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICER) of treating all patients with NTG and treating selected individuals with 
risk factors for disease progression were determined using Monte Carlo 
simulation. Sensitivity analyses were performed by varying the cost of 
consultations, medications, laser/surgery, and adjusting utility loss from 
progressed states.
RESULTS: The ICER of treating all patients with NTG over a 10-year period was 
United States (US) $34,225 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The ICER would 
be reduced when treatment was offered selectively to those with risk factors for 
disease progression. The ICER for treating NTG patients with disc hemorrhage, 
migraine, and those who were female were US $24,350, US $25,533, and US $27,000 
per QALY, respectively. The cost-effectiveness of treating all NTG patients in 
this model was sensitive to cost fluctuation of medications, choice of utility 
score associated with disease progression, and insensitive to cost of 
consultations and laser/surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: It is cost-effective, in the long-term, to offer IOP lowering 
therapy, aiming for a 30% reduction from the baseline, to all NTG patients. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of treating all patients with normal 
tension glaucoma over a 10-year period was $34,225 per quality-adjusted life 
year and should be offered to individuals in need.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.12-11549
PMID: 23599342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Indian J Radiol Imaging. 2012 Jul;22(3):195-208. doi:
10.4103/0971-3026.107182.

Imaging in oral cancers.

Arya S(1), Chaukar D, Pai P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radio diagnosis, Tata Memorial Hospital, Mumbai, Maharashtra, 
India.

Oral cavity squamous cell cancers form a significant percentage of the cancers 
seen in India. While clinical examination allows direct visualization, it cannot 
evaluate deep extension of disease. Cross-sectional imaging has become the 
cornerstone in the pretreatment evaluation of these cancers and provides 
accurate information about the extent and depth of disease that can help decide 
the appropriate management strategy and indicate prognosis. Early cancers are 
treated with a single modality, either surgery or radiotherapy while advanced 
cancers are offered a combination of surgery, radiotherapy and chemotherapy. 
Imaging can decide resectability, help plan the precise extent of resection, and 
indicate whether organ conservation therapy should be offered. Quality of life 
issues necessitate preservation of form and function and pretreatment imaging 
helps plan appropriate reconstruction and counsel patients regarding lifestyle 
changes. Oral cavity has several subsites and the focus of the review is 
squamous cancers of the gingivobuccal region, oral tongue and retromolar trigone 
as these are most frequently encountered in the subcontinent. References for 
this review were identified by searching Medline and PubMed databases. Only 
articles published in English language literature were selected. This review 
aims to familiarize the radiologist with the relevant anatomy of the oral 
cavity, discuss the specific issues that influence prognosis and management at 
the above subsites, the optimal imaging methods, the role of imaging in 
accurately staging these cancers and in influencing management. A checklist for 
reporting will emphasize the information to be conveyed by the radiologist.

DOI: 10.4103/0971-3026.107182
PMCID: PMC3624743
PMID: 23599568

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: No.


825. Ned Tijdschr Tandheelkd. 2013 Mar;120(3):143-6. doi:
10.5177/ntvt.2013.03.12212.

[Hindering the immune system by tumours in the head and neck area].

[Article in Dutch]

Baas JD(1), Brand HS.

Author information:
(1)Afdeling Algemene en Specialistische Tandheelkunde, Academisch Centrum 
Tandheelkunde Amsterdam (ACTA)/VU Medisch Centrum.

Head and neck tumours possess several mechanisms to hinder an appropriate immune 
response against the tumour cell. In the first place, the tumour cells attempt 
to suppress the presentation of tumour-associated antigens to the cells of the 
immune system. Tumours also have a negative effect on the surface structures of 
the efferent blood vessel epithelium, thereby inhibiting the recruitment of 
immune cells. In addition, proteins are secreted capable of inactivating immune 
cells. These immunosuppressive activities of the tumour result in a 
deterioration of life expectancy. Several experimental methods to improve the 
immune response of the patient against tumour cells are currently being 
explored.

DOI: 10.5177/ntvt.2013.03.12212
PMID: 23600179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Vopr Onkol. 2012;58(5):688-90.

[Macroglobulin family proteins in breast cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Promzeleva NV, Zorina VN, Zorin NA.

Determined serum levels of alpha-2-macroglobulin (a2-MG) and pregnancy-associate 
alpha-2-glycoprotein (a2-PAG) in 98 breast cancer patients stage I-IV prior to 
the special antitumor treatment. Statistically significant negative correlative 
dependence of the a2-PAG in the blood and lifetime of patients is proved. We 
believe that the definition of pre-treatment level of a serum a2-MG and a2-PAG 
concentrations for patients with breast cancer, can be used as an additional 
predictor of life expectancy.

PMID: 23600290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. J Pharm Pharmacol. 2013 May;65(5):682-8. doi: 10.1111/jphp.12023. Epub 2013
Jan  31.

Influence of resveratrol on oxidative stress resistance and life span in 
Caenorhabditis elegans.

Chen W(1), Rezaizadehnajafi L, Wink M.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacy and Molecular Biotechnology, Heidelberg University, 
Heidelberg, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Resveratrol (3,5,4'-trihydroxy-trans-stilbene), a polyphenol from 
red wine, has been reported to be beneficial in cases of ageing-related 
cardiovascular and neurodegenerative diseases owing to its property to reduce 
oxidative stress. Previous studies on the longevity promoting effect of 
resveratrol have been partly inconclusive, therefore we set out to investigate 
whether resveratrol at least promoted longevity in Caenorhabditis elegans under 
acute oxidative stress conditions.
METHODS: C. elegans was cultured under standard conditions with or without 
resveratrol. After exposure to juglone-induced acute oxidative stress, the 
survival rate and hsp-16.2::GFP expression were measured. The influence of 
resveratrol on life span was recorded also under oxidative stress induced by 
high glucose concentrations in the growth medium.
KEY FINDINGS: No extension of the normal life span of C. elegans was observed 
either in liquid or solid growth media containing different concentrations of 
resveratrol. However, resveratrol alleviated juglone-induced lethal oxidative 
stress, and significantly prolonged the life span of C. elegans under conditions 
of acute oxidative damage and oxidative stress caused by high concentrations of 
glucose.
CONCLUSIONS: Resveratrol, as an antioxidant, ameliorated oxidative stress in 
vivo but did not extend the life span of C. elegans under normal conditions. 
However, resveratrol did extend life span under conditions of oxidative stress.

© 2013 The Authors. JPP © 2013 Royal Pharmaceutical Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jphp.12023
PMID: 23600385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Neuromodulation. 2014 Jan;17(1):75-84; discussion 84. doi:
10.1111/ner.12048.  Epub 2013 Apr 19.

A feasibility study to investigate the effect of functional electrical 
stimulation and physiotherapy exercise on the quality of gait of people with 
multiple sclerosis.

Taylor P(1), Barrett C, Mann G, Wareham W, Swain I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Science and Engineering, Salisbury District Hospital, 
Salisbury, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the effect of Functional Electrical Stimulation (FES) for 
dropped foot and hip instability in combination with physiotherapy core 
stability exercises.
METHODS: Twenty-eight people with secondary progressive multiple sclerosis and 
unilateral dropped foot participated in a randomized crossover trial. Group1 
received FES for correction of dropped foot for six weeks with the addition of 
hip extension for a further six weeks. In weeks 12-18, FES was continued with 
the addition of eight sessions of core stability physiotherapy with home-based 
exercise. FES and home-based exercise were continued until weeks 19-24. Group 2 
received the same physiotherapy intervention over the first 12 weeks, adding FES 
in the second 12 weeks.
RESULTS: FES improved walking speed and Rivermead Observational Gait Analysis 
(ROGA) score, whereas physiotherapy did not. Adding gluteal stimulation further 
improved ROGA score. Both interventions reduced falls, but adding FES to 
physiotherapy reduced them further. FES had greater impact on Multiple Sclerosis 
Impact Scale, MSIS-29.
CONCLUSION: The intervention was feasible. FES for dropped foot may improve 
mobility and quality of life and may reduce falls. Adding gluteal stimulation 
further improved gait quality. Adding physiotherapy may have enhanced the effect 
of FES, but FES had the dominant effect.

© 2013 International Neuromodulation Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ner.12048
PMID: 23601128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Obes Rev. 2013 Jul;14(7):523-31. doi: 10.1111/obr.12029. Epub 2013 Apr 18.

Modelling obesity outcomes: reducing obesity risk in adulthood may have greater 
impact than reducing obesity prevalence in childhood.

Lhachimi SK(1), Nusselder WJ, Lobstein TJ, Smit HA, Baili P, Bennett K, Kulik 
MC, Jackson-Leach R, Boshuizen HC, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus University Medical Center, Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. s.lhachimi@erasmusmc.nl

A common policy response to the rise in obesity prevalence is to undertake 
interventions in childhood, but it is an open question whether this is more 
effective than reducing the risk of becoming obese during adulthood. In this 
paper, we model the effect on health outcomes of (i) reducing the prevalence of 
obesity when entering adulthood; (ii) reducing the risk of becoming obese 
throughout adult life; and (iii) combinations of both approaches. We found that, 
while all approaches reduce the prevalence of chronic diseases and improve life 
expectancy, a given percentage reduction in obesity prevalence achieved during 
childhood had a smaller effect than the same percentage reduction in the risk of 
becoming obese applied throughout adulthood. A small increase in the probability 
of becoming obese during adulthood offsets a substantial reduction in prevalence 
of overweight/obesity achieved during childhood, with the gains from a 50% 
reduction in child obesity prevalence offset by a 10% increase in the 
probability of becoming obese in adulthood. We conclude that both policy 
approaches can improve the health profile throughout the life course of a 
cohort, but they are not equivalent, and a large reduction in child obesity 
prevalence may be reversed by a small increase in the risk of becoming 
overweight or obese in adulthood.

