useful information for directing future research and disease control programmes.

Copyright © 2013 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2013.01.005
PMID: 23507421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Biomatter. 2011 Jul-Sep;1(1):1-2. doi: 10.4161/biom.1.1.17831.

Welcome to Biomatter.

Granja PL.

It is with great pleasure and honor that I introduce Biomatter, a new 
international and transdisciplinary journal for the publication of peer-reviewed 
original research exploring the clinical and laboratory investigations in the 
field of science and application of biomaterials. Recent developments in 
medicine have resulted in a considerable and unprecedented increase in lifespan. 
The invention of artificial implants made from biomaterials in the 1960s created 
a whole new scientific field and resulted in revolutionary technologies that 
strongly contributed to this increase in life expectancy. Since then, many 
exciting advancements shaped modern biomaterials science, which itself 
originated several new fields, with biology playing a major role and where the 
separation between engineering and health sciences can hardly be distinguished. 
Current and future research efforts in this field are believed to result in new 
therapeutic approaches to prevent and treat debilitating and life-threatening 
diseases.Biomatter intends to be on the forefront of disclosing these 
developments. Biomatter appears as a forum to discuss and disclose the relevant 
advancements in the exciting and fast-growing field of science and application 
of biomaterials. It is widely anticipated that current and upcoming advances 
will soon result in products with potential to dramatically change the way in 
which we live, probably with yet-unimaginable future implications in healthcare.

DOI: 10.4161/biom.1.1.17831
PMCID: PMC3548248
PMID: 23507725 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. HNO. 2013 Apr;61(4):300-5. doi: 10.1007/s00106-013-2679-2.

[Current treatment strategies for papillary thyroid microcarcinoma].

[Article in German]

Plzák J(1), Astl J, Psychogios G, Zenk J, Laštůvka P, Betka J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery, 1st Faculty of 
Medicine, Charles University, University Hospital Motol, V Úvalu 84, 150 06, 
Prag 5, Tschechische Republik. jan.plzak@lf1.cuni.cz

The increase in the incidence of thyroid cancer is accompanied by a mortality 
rate that is stable or perhaps even slightly decreasing. This phenomenon is due 
to the increased frequency of papillary microcarcinomas (thyroid tumors with a 
diameter of less than 1 cm), which is presumably attributable to the improved 
diagnosis enabled by high resolution ultrasound and fine needle aspiration 
cytology. The American and European Thyroid Associations have recently published 
new guidelines for the diagnosis and therapy of differentiated thyroid tumors. 
These guidelines are aimed at minimizing the diagnostic and therapeutic 
procedures without reducing their effectiveness. This goal is particularly 
important for papillary thyroid microcarcinoma patients, who have an excellent 
prognosis and almost normal life expectancy. This article summarizes the history 
of thyroid surgery and introduces papillary thyroid microcarcinoma--an important 
topic in modern thyroid oncology. Current methods for diagnosis, treatment and 
follow-up care of this disease are discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00106-013-2679-2
PMID: 23508860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2013 May;170(2):320-8. doi:
10.1007/s12010-013-0173-7.  Epub 2013 Mar 19.

Molecular cloning and overexpression of an endo-β-1,4-xylanase gene from 
Aspergillus niger in industrial Saccharomyces cerevisiae YS2 strain.

Tian B(1), Xu Y, Cai W, Huang Q, Gao Y, Li X, Huang J.

Author information:
(1)Engineering Research Center of Industrial Microbiology of Ministry of 
Education, and College of Life Sciences, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou, 
350108, People's Republic of China. baoyutian@yahoo.com.cn

The aim of this study was to endow an industrial strain of Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae with the ability to overexpress the xylanase by constructing a 
homology-driven integration vector. The total mRNA from a xylanase-producing 
strain of Aspergillus niger IME-216 was extracted and used as the template for 
the production of endo-β-1,4-xylanase cDNA by reverse transcription. The fusion 
fragment containing the phosphoglycerate kinase promoter, α-factor signal 
peptide, xylanase gene encoding the mature peptide, and CYC1 terminator was 
first generated by overlap extension polymerase chain reaction. Then, the vector 
pUPX was constructed by inserting the fusion fragment into the S. cerevisiae 
plasmid pUG6. Then, A 2.2-kb rDNA sequence was further cloned and attached to 
the SalI-digested pUPX to obtain the integration plasmid pUPXR. The pUPXR was 
linearized by KpnI, transformed into the industrial strain S. cerevisiae YS2 
using the lithium acetate method and integrated into the S. cerevisiae 
chromosome. The maximum yield of the recombinant xylanase produced by the 
engineered S. cerevisiae strain YS2_2 was 74.8 U per microliter, which was about 
1.5-fold higher than the original 50 U per microliter by Aspergillus niger 
IME-216 strain under the flask culture at 28 °C for 72 h. The findings of our 
study can be used for further development of industrial S. cerevisiae strain for 
producing interested enzymes, or improving the achievement of metabolism, for 
example, simultaneous fermentation of glucose and xylose to producing 
bioethanol.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-013-0173-7
PMID: 23508862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Proteins. 2013 Aug;81(8):1285-303. doi: 10.1002/prot.24285. Epub 2013 Jul 2.

Protein misfolding in the late-onset neurodegenerative diseases: common themes 
and the unique case of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis.

Mulligan VK(1), Chakrabartty A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
USA.

Enormous strides have been made in the last 100 years to extend human life 
expectancy and to combat the major infectious diseases. Today, the major 
challenges for medical science are age-related diseases, including cancer, heart 
disease, lung disease, renal disease, and late-onset neurodegenerative disease. 
Of these, only the neurodegenerative diseases represent a class of disease so 
poorly understood that no general strategies for prevention or treatment exist. 
These diseases, which include Alzheimer's disease, Parkinson's disease, 
Huntington's disease, the transmissible spongiform encephalopathies, and 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), are generally fatal and incurable. The 
first section of this review summarizes the diversity and common features of the 
late-onset neurodegenerative diseases, with a particular focus on protein 
misfolding and aggregation-a recurring theme in the molecular pathology. The 
second section focuses on the particular case of ALS, a late-onset 
neurodegenerative disease characterized by the death of central nervous system 
motor neurons, leading to paralysis and patient death. Of the 10% of ALS cases 
that show familial inheritance (familial ALS), the largest subset is caused by 
mutations in the SOD1 gene, encoding the Cu, Zn superoxide dismutase (SOD1). The 
unusual kinetic stability of SOD1 has provided a unique opportunity for detailed 
structural characterization of conformational states potentially involved in 
SOD1-associated ALS. This review discusses past studies exploring the stability, 
folding, and misfolding behavior of SOD1, as well as the therapeutic 
possibilities of using detailed knowledge of misfolding pathways to target the 
molecular mechanisms underlying ALS and other neurodegenerative diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/prot.24285
PMID: 23508986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Can Pharm J (Ott). 2012 Nov;145(6):268-75. doi: 10.3821/145.6.cpj268.

The MyHealthCheckup study: Training graduate students to implement 
cardiovascular risk screening programs in community pharmacies.

Banack HR, Grover S, Kaouche M, Marchand S, Lowensteyn I.

BACKGROUND: Hypertension is a major risk factor for cardiovascular morbidity and 
mortality. Despite this fact and the development of effective antihypertensive 
drug therapy, hypertension is often poorly controlled. Community pharmacies are 
an ideal site for the management of hypertension and other modifiable 
cardiovascular risk factors. The purpose of the current study was to develop and 
assess a pharmacy-based cardiovascular risk screening program implemented by 
graduate students.
METHODS: Four graduate students trained as health coaches screened a convenience 
sample of adults who were interested in cardiovascular risk assessment in 21 
Montreal area pharmacies. On the screening day, we assessed cardiovascular risk 
factors, including blood pressure, used the Cardiovascular Life Expectancy 
Model, which includes cardiovascular age, to inform patients of their 
personalized risk profile, delivered an individualized health coaching 
intervention and conducted a participant satisfaction survey. This was followed 
by an individualized health coaching intervention. The intervention program was 
implemented by trained graduate students and supported by pharmacists.
RESULTS: Among the 238 patients who participated (57% female, mean age 60.6 
years), 67% had a body mass index (BMI) greater than 25 kg/m(2), 52% had 
abdominal obesity, 58% reported insufficient physical activity and 14% were 
smokers. A total of 120 patients (51%) were taking antihypertensive medication, 
yet 63 (53%) had blood pressure readings above currently accepted targets. 
Higher BMI and physical inactivity were associated with increased rates of 
poorly controlled hypertension.
CONCLUSION: The screening program identified individuals with modifiable 
cardiovascular risk factors and poorly controlled hypertension. The intervention 
program was well received by participants and the majority provided contact 
information for future cardiovascular screening clinics. These findings support 
the feasibility of screening programs run by graduate students in the pharmacy 
setting.

DOI: 10.3821/145.6.cpj268
PMCID: PMC3567593
PMID: 23509588


558. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2013 Feb 25;4(1):16. doi: 10.1186/scrt164.

The effectiveness of stem cell therapies on health-related quality of life and 
life expectancy in comparison with conventional supportive medical treatment in 
patients suffering from end-stage liver disease.

AlZoubi AM, Khalifeh F.

The work presented in this study focuses on evaluating health-related quality of 
life using the International Short Form 36-Item Health Survey in chronic liver 
disease patients in Cairo, Egypt, who received either stem cell therapy (SCT) or 
supportive medical treatment (SMT). Long-term follow-up results for patients who 
underwent therapy compared with healthy individuals showed that patients who 
underwent SCT showed marked improvements on all domains of the evaluation, much 
lower mortality rates, and complete absence of malignancy, compared with 
patients enrolled in SMT. The authors clearly showed a significant advantage of 
SCT in chronic liver disease patients compared with SMT.

DOI: 10.1186/scrt164
PMCID: PMC3706779
PMID: 23510679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. Palliat Support Care. 2014 Apr;12(2):165-8. doi: 10.1017/S1478951512000922.
Epub  2013 Mar 19.

The time that remains: self-identity and temporality in cancer and other 
life-threatening illnesses and in Messianic experience.

Mendes AA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Society, Fluminense Federal University, Niterói, Rio 
De Janeiro.

DOI: 10.1017/S1478951512000922
PMID: 23510694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


560. Ann Oncol. 2013 Jul;24(7):1834-1840. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdt069. Epub 2013
Mar  19.

Is adjuvant trastuzumab a cost-effective therapy for HER-2/neu-positive T1bN0 
breast cancer?

Skedgel C(1), Rayson D(2), Younis T(2).

Author information:
(1)Atlantic Clinical Cancer Research Unit, Capital Health, Halifax, NS. 
Electronic address: chris.skedgel@cdha.nshealth.ca.
(2)Atlantic Clinical Cancer Research Unit, Capital Health, Halifax, NS; Division 
of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Capital Health & Dalhousie 
University, Halifax, NS, Canada.

BACKGROUND: In light of clinical uncertainty and the high acquisition costs of 
trastuzumab, we examined the value for money associated with concurrent or 
sequential trastuzumab in women with HER-2/neu-positive breast cancer with small 
node-negative tumours (T1bN0).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A probabilistic economic model was developed to estimate 
the likelihood of adjuvant trastuzumab meeting a $100 000 per quality-adjusted 
life year gained threshold over a range of 10-year recurrence risks by age. The 
primary analysis took an incremental approach, comparing trastuzumab plus 
chemotherapy with chemotherapy alone. A secondary analysis took an 
'all-or-nothing' approach, comparing trastuzumab plus chemotherapy with neither 
treatment.
RESULTS: The primary analysis suggested that concurrent trastuzumab plus 
adjuvant chemotherapy was likely to meet the $100 000 threshold at recurrence 
risks of 29-35%. Sequential trastuzumab was less likely to meet such a 
threshold. The secondary analysis was more favourable for both trastuzumab 
strategies, but of limited relevance as clinical benefits were predominantly 
driven by chemotherapy without trastuzumab.
CONCLUSIONS: Concurrent trastuzumab plus adjuvant chemotherapy appears to offer 
favourable value for money at the upper ranges of baseline recurrence risks 
reported to date, although more precise estimates of underlying risk are 
required to confirm the cost-effectiveness of adjuvant trastuzumab in T1bN0 
breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdt069
PMID: 23510987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. J Hepatol. 2013 Jul;59(1):160-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.03.007. Epub 2013
Mar  16.

Global burden of alcoholic liver diseases.

Rehm J(1), Samokhvalov AV, Shield KD.

Author information:
(1)Social and Epidemiological Research Department, Centre for Addiction and 
Mental Health, Toronto, Canada. jtrehm@gmail.com

Liver diseases contribute markedly to the global burden of mortality and 
disease. This paper provides an overview from a global perspective of the 
contribution of alcohol to liver diseases. The Global Burden of Disease study 
methodology was used to estimate the burden of alcohol-attributable liver 
cirrhosis and alcohol-attributable liver cancer in 2010 as measured by deaths 
and disability adjusted life years (DALYs). This methodology estimates 
attributable fractions based on alcohol exposure distribution and relative risks 
associated with different levels of drinking. Globally, in 2010, 
alcohol-attributable liver cirrhosis was responsible for 493,300 deaths (156,900 
female deaths and 336,400 male deaths) and 14,544,000 DALYs (4,112,000 DALYs for 
women and 10,432,000 DALYs for men), representing 0.9% (0.7% for women and 1.2% 
for men) of all global deaths and 0.6% (0.4% for women and 0.8% for men) of all 
global DALYs, and 47.9% of all liver cirrhosis deaths (46.5% for women and 48.5% 
for men) and 46.9% of all liver cirrhosis DALYs (44.5% for women and 47.9% for 
men). Alcohol-attributable liver cancer was responsible for 80,600 deaths 
(14,800 female deaths and 65,900 male deaths) and 2,142,000 DALYs (335,000 DALYs 
for women and 1,807,000 DALYs for men). The burden of alcohol-attributable liver 
cirrhosis and liver cancer is high and entirely preventable. Interventions to 
reduce alcohol consumption are recommended as a population health priority and 
may range from taxation increases for alcoholic beverages to increases in 
screening and treatment rates for alcohol use disorders.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.03.007
PMID: 23511777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Cerebellum. 2013 Oct;12(5):607-16. doi: 10.1007/s12311-013-0467-x.

Sudden stopping in patients with cerebellar ataxia.

Serrao M(1), Conte C, Casali C, Ranavolo A, Mari S, Di Fabio R, Perrotta A, 
Coppola G, Padua L, Monamì S, Sandrini G, Pierelli F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medico-Surgical Sciences and Biotechnologies, University of 
Rome Sapienza, Latina, Italy. mariano.serrao@uniroma1.it

Comment in
    Cerebellum. 2013 Dec;12(6):956-7.
    Cerebellum. 2013 Dec;12(6):958-9.

Stopping during walking, a dynamic motor task frequent in everyday life, is very 
challenging for ataxic patients, as it reduces their gait stability and 
increases the incidence of falls. This study was conducted to analyse the 
biomechanical characteristics of upper and lower body segments during abrupt 
stopping in ataxic patients in order to identify possible strategies used to 
counteract the instability in the sagittal and frontal plane. Twelve patients 
with primary degenerative cerebellar ataxia and 12 age- and sex-matched healthy 
subjects were studied. Time-distance parameters, dynamic stability of the centre 
of mass, upper body measures and lower joint kinematic and kinetic parameters 
were analysed. The results indicate that ataxic patients have a great difficulty 
in stopping abruptly during walking and adopt a multi-step stopping strategy, 
occasionally with feet parallel, to compensate for their inability to coordinate 
the upper body and to generate a well-coordinated lower limb joint 
flexor-extensor pattern and appropriate braking forces for progressively 
decelerating the progression of the body in the sagittal plane. A specific 
rehabilitation treatment designed to improve the ability of ataxic patients to 
transform unplanned stopping into planned stopping, to coordinate upper body and 
to execute an effective flexion-extension pattern of the hip and knee joints may 
be useful in these patients in order to improve their stopping performance and 
prevent falls.

DOI: 10.1007/s12311-013-0467-x
PMID: 23512116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Apr;31(4):317-33. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0031-z.

The cost effectiveness of pharmacological treatments for generalized anxiety 
disorder.

Mavranezouli I(1), Meader N, Cape J, Kendall T.

Author information:
(1)National Collaborating Centre for Mental Health, Centre for Outcomes Research 
and Effectiveness, Research Department of Clinical, Educational and Health 
Psychology, University College London, Gower Street, London, WC1E 6BT, UK. 
i.mavranezouli@ucl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Generalized anxiety disorder (GAD) is one of the most prevalent 
anxiety disorders, with important implications for patients and healthcare 
resources. However, few economic evaluations of pharmacological treatments for 
GAD have been published to date, and those available have assessed only a 
limited number of drugs.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost effectiveness of pharmacological interventions for 
patients with GAD in the UK.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model in the form of a decision tree was 
constructed to compare the costs and QALYs of six drugs used as first-line 
pharmacological treatments in people with GAD (duloxetine, escitalopram, 
paroxetine, pregabalin, sertraline and venlafaxine extended release [XL]) and 
'no pharmacological treatment'. The analysis adopted the perspective of the NHS 
and Personal Social Services (PSS) in the UK. Efficacy data were derived from a 
systematic literature review of double-blind, randomized controlled trials and 
were synthesized using network meta-analytic techniques. Two network 
meta-analyses were undertaken to assess the comparative efficacy (expressed by 
response rates) and tolerability (expressed by rates of discontinuation due to 
intolerable side effects) of the six drugs and no treatment in the study 
population. Cost data were derived from published literature and national 
sources, supplemented by expert opinion. The price year was 2011. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis was conducted to evaluate the underlying uncertainty of the 
model input parameters.
RESULTS: Sertraline was the best drug in limiting discontinuation due to side 
effects and the second best drug in achieving response in patients not 
discontinuing treatment due to side effects. It also resulted in the lowest 
costs and highest number of QALYs among all treatment options assessed. Its 
probability of being the most cost-effective drug reached 75 % at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000 per extra QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: Sertraline appears to be the most cost-effective drug in the 
treatment of patients with GAD. However, this finding is based on limited 
evidence for sertraline (two published trials). Sertraline is not licensed for 
the treatment of GAD in the UK, but is commonly used by primary care 
practitioners for the treatment of depression and mixed depression and anxiety.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0031-z
PMID: 23512146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


564. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2013 Apr;11(2):107-17. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-013-0019-z.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of 3-D computerized tomography colonography versus 
optical colonoscopy for imaging symptomatic gastroenterology patients.

Gomes M(1), Aldridge RW, Wylie P, Bell J, Epstein O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, 15-17 Tavistock Place, London WC1H 9SH, UK. 
manuel.gomes@lshtm.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: When symptomatic gastroenterology patients have an indication for 
colonic imaging, clinicians have a choice between optical colonoscopy (OC) and 
computerized tomography colonography with three-dimensional reconstruction (3-D 
CTC). 3-D CTC provides a minimally invasive and rapid evaluation of the entire 
colon, and it can be an efficient modality for diagnosing symptoms. It allows 
for a more targeted use of OC, which is associated with a higher risk of major 
adverse events and higher procedural costs. A case can be made for 3-D CTC as a 
primary test for colonic imaging followed if necessary by targeted therapeutic 
OC; however, the relative long-term costs and benefits of introducing 3-D CTC as 
a first-line investigation are unknown.
AIM: The aim of this study was to assess the cost effectiveness of 3-D CTC 
versus OC for colonic imaging of symptomatic gastroenterology patients in the UK 
NHS.
METHODS: We used a Markov model to follow a cohort of 100,000 symptomatic 
gastroenterology patients, aged 50 years or older, and estimate the expected 
lifetime outcomes, life years (LYs) and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and 
costs (£, 2010-2011) associated with 3-D CTC and OC. Sensitivity analyses were 
performed to assess the robustness of the base-case cost-effectiveness results 
to variation in input parameters and methodological assumptions.
RESULTS: 3D-CTC provided a similar number of LYs (7.737 vs 7.739) and QALYs 
(7.013 vs 7.018) per individual compared with OC, and it was associated with 
substantially lower mean costs per patient (£467 vs £583), leading to a positive 
incremental net benefit. After accounting for the overall uncertainty, the 
probability of 3-D CTC being cost effective was around 60 %, at typical 
willingness-to-pay values of £20,000-£30,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: 3-D CTC is a cost-saving and cost-effective option for colonic 
imaging of symptomatic gastroenterology patients compared with OC.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-013-0019-z
PMID: 23512599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


565. Pediatr Obes. 2013 Dec;8(6):428-38. doi: 10.1111/j.2047-6310.2012.00128.x.
Epub  2013 Mar 19.

Prevalence of obesity among Arab school children in Nazareth, Israel: comparison 
with national (Jewish) and international data.

Ram E(1), Marcus O, Joubran S, Abdo B, Asal NR.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery, Rabin Medical Center- Campus Golda, the Sackler 
Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN ABOUT THIS SUBJECT: Lack of published data. Absence of 
Ethnic specific data. Lack of focus on obesity prevention in Arab schools.
WHAT THIS STUDY ADDS: First set of data on obesity for Arab children. Data will 
be used as reference data. Alert health/school official for intervention.
SUMMARY: Objective The objective is to produce the first set of obesity 
prevalence data and use the data as reference values of body mass index (BMI) 
trends for Arab children in Israel and compare with Jewish and international 
data. Methods A prevalence study was carried out in 2009 in which 4130 children 
aged 6-12, were selected from eight Arab sector schools representing the 
Nazareth Municipality. Height, weight and BMI measurements were obtained and 
presented by age, mean age, size, weight, gender and percentile. Appropriate 
epidemiological and statistical methods used for comparison. Results The obesity 
and overweight prevalence rates in Arab children by age ranges from 0% to 2.6% 
and 0% to 11.2%, respectively. Comparison with international and Jewish data 
revealed differences in almost all age groups but higher rates in Arabs, 
especially boys. Discussion The higher rates/trends in Arab children may be 
explained by more Arab women entering the workforce, increase in single-parent 
families and changes in food and physical activity environments. Conclusion 
Based on our data, we recommend either an ethnic-specific BMI reference curves 
and/or inclusion of Arab data in the Israeli data system. Research need to focus 
on reasons for the increase and interventions to reverse/slow the trend.

© 2013 The Authors. Pediatric Obesity © 2013 International Association for the 
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/j.2047-6310.2012.00128.x
PMID: 23512913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


566. J Mass Dent Soc. 2012 Summer;61(2):6.

Long-term care planning is important for women.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 23513342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


567. Trials. 2013 Mar 20;14:81. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-81.

Evaluation of the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of Families for Health V2 
for the treatment of childhood obesity: study protocol for a randomized 
controlled trial.

Robertson W(1), Stewart-Brown S, Stallard N, Petrou S, Griffiths F, Thorogood M, 
Simkiss D, Lang R, Reddington K, Poole F, Rye G, Khan KA, Hamborg T, Kirby J.

Author information:
(1)Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK. 
w.robertson@warwick.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Effective programs to help children manage their weight are 
required. Families for Health focuses on a parenting approach, designed to help 
parents develop their parenting skills to support lifestyle change within the 
family. Families for Health V1 showed sustained reductions in overweight after 2 
years in a pilot evaluation, but lacks a randomized controlled trial (RCT) 
evidence base.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is a multi-center, investigator-blind RCT, with parallel 
economic evaluation, with a 12-month follow-up. The trial will recruit 120 
families with at least one child aged 6 to 11 years who is overweight (≥91st 
centile BMI) or obese (≥98th centile BMI) from three localities and assigned 
randomly to Families for Health V2 (60 families) or the usual care control (60 
families) groups. Randomization will be stratified by locality (Coventry, 
Warwickshire, Wolverhampton).Families for Health V2 is a family-based 
intervention run in a community venue. Parents/carers and children attend 
parallel groups for 2.5 hours weekly for 10 weeks. The usual care arm will be 
the usual support provided within each NHS locality.A mixed-methods evaluation 
will be carried out. Child and parent participants will be assessed at home 
visits at baseline, 3-month (post-treatment) and 12-month follow-up. The primary 
outcome measure is the change in the children's BMI z-scores at 12 months from 
the baseline. Secondary outcome measures include changes in the children's waist 
circumference, percentage body fat, physical activity, fruit/vegetable 
consumption and quality of life. The parents' BMI and mental well-being, family 
eating/activity, parent-child relationships and parenting style will also be 
assessed.Economic components will encompass the measurement and valuation of 
service utilization, including the costs of running Families for Health and 
usual care, and the EuroQol EQ-5D health outcomes. Cost-effectiveness will be 
expressed in terms of incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year gained. A 
de novo decision-analytic model will estimate the lifetime cost-effectiveness of 
the Families for Health program.Process evaluation will document recruitment, 
attendance and drop-out rates, and the fidelity of Families for Health delivery. 
Interviews with up to 24 parents and children from each arm will investigate 
perceptions and changes made.
DISCUSSION: This paper describes our protocol to assess the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of a parenting approach for managing childhood obesity and 
presents challenges to implementation.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials http://ISRCTN45032201.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-81
PMCID: PMC3610242
PMID: 23514100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


568. BMC Cancer. 2013 Mar 20;13:133. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-133.

Early-stage squamous cell carcinoma of the oropharynx: radiotherapy vs. 
trans-oral robotic surgery (ORATOR)--study protocol for a randomized phase II 
trial.

Nichols AC(1), Yoo J, Hammond JA, Fung K, Winquist E, Read N, Venkatesan V, 
MacNeil SD, Ernst DS, Kuruvilla S, Chen J, Corsten M, Odell M, Eapen L, Theurer 
J, Doyle PC, Wehrli B, Kwan K, Palma DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, London Health Sciences 
Centre and Western University, London, Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinoma (OPSCC) has 
markedly increased over the last three decades due to newly found associations 
with human papillomavirus (HPV) infection. Primary radiotherapy (RT) is the 
treatment of choice for OPSCC at most centers, and over the last decade, the 
addition of concurrent chemotherapy has led to a significant improvement in 
survival, but at the cost of increased acute and late toxicity. Transoral 
robotic surgery (TORS) has emerged as a promising alternative treatment, with 
preliminary case series demonstrating encouraging oncologic, functional, and 
quality of life (QOL) outcomes. However, comparisons of TORS and RT in a 
non-randomized fashion are susceptible to bias. The goal of this randomized 
phase II study is to compare QOL, functional outcomes, toxicity profiles, and 
survival following primary RT (± chemotherapy) vs. TORS (± adjuvant [chemo] RT) 
in patients with OPSCC.
METHODS/DESIGN: The target patient population comprises OPSCC patients who would 
be unlikely to require chemotherapy post-resection: Tumor stage T1-T2 with 
likely negative margins at surgery; Nodal stage N0-2, ≤3 cm in size, with no 
evidence of extranodal extension on imaging. Participants will be randomized in 
a 1:1 ratio between Arm 1 (RT ± chemotherapy) and Arm 2 (TORS ± adjuvant [chemo] 
RT). In Arm 1, patients with N0 disease will receive RT alone, whereas N1-2 
patients will receive concurrent chemoradiation. In Arm 2, patients will undergo 
TORS along with selective neck dissections, which may be staged. Pathologic 
high-risk features will be used to determine the requirement for adjuvant 
radiotherapy +/- chemotherapy. The primary endpoint is QOL score using the M.D. 
Anderson Dysphagia Inventory (MDADI), with secondary endpoints including 
survival, toxicity, other QOL outcomes, and swallowing function. A sample of 68 
patients is required.
DISCUSSION: This study, if successful, will provide a much-needed randomized 
comparison of the conventional strategy of primary RT vs. the novel strategy of 
primary TORS. The trial is designed to provide a definitive QOL comparison 
between the two arms, and to inform the design of an eventual phase III trial 
for survival outcomes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NCT01590355.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-133
PMCID: PMC3621077
PMID: 23514246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


569. Anthropol Med. 2013 Apr;20(1):1-12. doi: 10.1080/13648470.2012.747593. Epub
2013  Mar 21.

It's not just pills and potions? depoliticising health inequalities policy in 
England.

Qureshi K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social and Cultural Anthropology, University of Oxford, UK. 
kaveri.qureshi@anthro.ox.ac.uk

In England, health inequalities policy shifted during the Labour term 
(1997-2010) from initially strong commitments to tackling the 'upstream' social 
determinants of health to a technically-driven emphasis on lifestyle risk 
factors and healthcare access. This multi-sited study, based in and around 
Westminster (2006-2007), extends our understanding of how political context 
influences policy-making by drawing from anthropological studies of policy. 
Qualitative material from central government is put into conversation with 
theory concerning policy as zones of practices. The paper explores the bristly 
process through which public health, healthcare and corporate interests vied to 
shape the political agenda for health inequalities; the selective use of 
evidence by civil servants in accordance with their perceptions of what 
politicians conceive to be electorally palatable; the silencing of critique of 
the dominant narrative about evidence-based policy; and how technical aids 
developed a life of their own - as a result of which, health inequalities policy 
ended up being depoliticised.

DOI: 10.1080/13648470.2012.747593
PMID: 23514639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


570. Med Decis Making. 2013 Nov;33(8):986-97. doi: 10.1177/0272989X13478195. Epub
 2013 Mar 20.

Accounting for costs, QALYs, and capacity constraints: using discrete-event 
simulation to evaluate alternative service delivery and organizational scenarios 
for hospital-based glaucoma services.

Crane GJ(1), Kymes SM(2), Hiller JE(3), Casson R(1), Martin A(4), Karnon JD(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia (GJC, RC, JDK).
(2)Washington University, St. Louis, Missouri (SMK)
(3)Australian Catholic University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (JEH)
(4)Health Economics Group, Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, 
Norwich, UK (AM)

BACKGROUND: Decision-analytic models are routinely used as a framework for 
cost-effectiveness analyses of health care services and technologies; however, 
these models mostly ignore resource constraints. In this study, we use a 
discrete-event simulation model to inform a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
alternative options for the organization and delivery of clinical services in 
the ophthalmology department of a public hospital. The model is novel, given 
that it represents both disease outcomes and resource constraints in a routine 
clinical setting.
METHODS: A 5-year discrete-event simulation model representing glaucoma patient 
services at the Royal Adelaide Hospital (RAH) was implemented and calibrated to 
patient-level data. The data were sourced from routinely collected waiting and 
appointment lists, patient record data, and the published literature. 
Patient-level costs and quality-adjusted life years were estimated for a range 
of alternative scenarios, including combinations of alternate follow-up times, 
booking cycles, and treatment pathways.
RESULTS: The model shows that a) extending booking cycle length from 4 to 6 
months, b) extending follow-up visit times by 2 to 3 months, and c) using laser 
in preference to medication are more cost-effective than current practice at the 
RAH eye clinic.
CONCLUSIONS: The current simulation model provides a useful tool for informing 
improvements in the organization and delivery of glaucoma services at a local 
level (e.g., within a hospital), on the basis of expected effects on costs and 
health outcomes while accounting for current capacity constraints. Our model may 
be adapted to represent glaucoma services at other hospitals, whereas the 
general modeling approach could be applied to many other clinical service areas.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X13478195
PMID: 23515216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


571. Calcif Tissue Int. 2013 Jul;93(1):1-14. doi: 10.1007/s00223-013-9724-8. Epub
 2013 Mar 21.

Health technology assessment in osteoporosis.

Hiligsmann M(1), Kanis JA, Compston J, Cooper C, Flamion B, Bergmann P, Body JJ, 
Boonen S, Bruyere O, Devogelaer JP, Goemaere S, Kaufman JM, Rozenberg S, 
Reginster JY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, School for Public Health and Primary 
Care (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, P.O. Box 616, Maastricht, 6200 MD, The 
Netherlands. m.hiligsmann@maastrichtuniversity.nl

We review the various aspects of health technology assessment in osteoporosis, 
including epidemiology and burden of disease, and assessment of the 
cost-effectiveness of recent advances in the treatment of osteoporosis and the 
prevention of fracture, in the context of the allocation of health-care 
resources by decision makers in osteoporosis. This article was prepared on the 
basis of a symposium held by the Belgian Bone Club and the discussions 
surrounding that meeting and is based on a review and critical appraisal of the 
literature. Epidemiological studies confirm the immense burden of osteoporotic 
fractures for patients and society, with lifetime risks of any fracture of the 
hip, spine, and forearm of around 40 % for women and 13 % for men. The economic 
impact is also large; for example, Europe's six largest countries spent €31 
billion on osteoporotic fractures in 2010. Moreover, the burden is expected to 
increase in the future with demographic changes and increasing life expectancy. 
Recent advances in the management of osteoporosis include novel treatments, 
better fracture-risk assessment notably via fracture risk algorithms, and 
improved adherence to medication. Economic evaluation can inform decision makers 
in health care on the cost-effectiveness of the various interventions. 
Cost-effectiveness analyses suggest that the recent advances in the prevention 
and treatment of osteoporosis may constitute an efficient basis for the 
allocation of scarce health-care resources. In summary, health technology 
assessment is increasingly used in the field of osteoporosis and could be very 
useful to help decision makers efficiently allocate health-care resources.

DOI: 10.1007/s00223-013-9724-8
PMCID: PMC3696176
PMID: 23515633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


572. Breast Cancer. 2014 Jul;21(4):435-41. doi: 10.1007/s12282-012-0410-x. Epub
2012  Oct 23.

Promotion of quality-controlled mammography alone as a screening modality in 
Japan.

Morimoto T(1), Tangoku A, Yamakawa T, Tsuruno M, Takashima S.

Author information:
(1)Shikoku Central Hospital of Mutual Aid Association of Public School Teachers, 
2233 Kawanoe-cho, Shikokuchuou, Ehime, 799-0193, Japan, 
tmorimot@mf.pikara.ne.jp.

BACKGROUND: The rate of breast cancer screening in Japan has not increased, and 
it is thought that one of the reasons is the principle that mammography (MMG) 
and clinical breast examination (CBE) be carried out in combination. Nationwide, 
there is a shortage of physicians qualified to perform CBE, and in some regions 
mass-screening is performed by MMG alone out of a mobile MMG bus. In Shikoku, 
MMG is performed alone as a screening examination in Kochi and Ehime 
Prefectures.
METHODS: A comparative analysis of the data generated by MMG alone in breast 
cancer screening in the four prefectures of Shikoku during the 2005-2009 period 
was performed.
RESULTS: The overall attendance rates, recall, cancer detection, early-stage 
cancer detection, and the positive predictive value (PPV) were 16.8-24.5, 
6.0-12.8, 0.26-0.37, 63.1-79.7, and 2.8-4.3 %, respectively. Almost no 
differences were seen between the results for MMG alone and combined MMG/CBE 
screening. In addition, the cancer detection rates based on the Japan Cancer 
Society's nationwide data were 0.25 % with combined MMG/CBE screening and 0.21 % 
with MMG alone, showing almost no difference.
CONCLUSIONS: No differences were seen between the results (i.e., recall rate, 
cancer detection rate, early-stage cancer detection rate, PPV) for MMG alone and 
MMG/CBE screening in the four prefectures of Shikoku compared with the Japan 
Cancer Society's nationwide data. In order to improve the mammographic screening 
rate in Japan, quality-controlled mammography as a stand-alone examination 
should be promoted, and performed biennially for women aged 50-74 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s12282-012-0410-x
PMID: 23515946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


573. Obes Surg. 2013 Oct;23(10):1590-5. doi: 10.1007/s11695-013-0924-0.

Functioning of obese individuals in pre- and postoperative periods of bariatric 
surgery.

Vargas CB(1), Picolli F, Dani C, Padoin AV, Mottin CC.

Author information:
(1)Pontíficia Universidade Católica do Rio Grande do Sul, Porto Alegre, Rio 
Grande do Sul, Brazil, carolina.bvargas@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Obesity is a pathologic condition that causes functional incapacity, 
with reduction of quality of life and life expectancy and an increase in 
mortality. Bariatric surgery is indicated to alleviate associated comorbidities 
and increase physical capacity. The objective of this work was to evaluate the 
functional capacity of patients with morbid obesity before and after (3 months) 
bariatric surgery.
METHODS: This was a cross-sectional study involving 67 patients, where 61 were 
women and six men, with a mean age of 38 ± 10 years and mean BMI of 50.45 ± 8.5 
kg/m2. All patients were assessed before surgery and 3 months afterwards. The 
following assessments were performed: 6-min walk test (6MWT), functional 
independence measure (FIM), and test for risk of falling and transfer capacity, 
called the timed up-and-go test.
RESULTS: The study demonstrated a reduction in parameters evaluated in 6MWT with 
a statistically significant difference at two times (rest and final) when 
evaluated before and after bariatric surgery (p < 0.001). In relation to the FIM 
and timed up-and-go test, the patients showed a statistically significant 
improvement (p < 0.001) for both when comparing the tasks evaluated at the pre- 
and postoperative moments.
CONCLUSIONS: Obesity has an impact on the functioning and quality of life of 
patients. We observed an improvement in all instruments used for assessment 
before and after bariatric surgery, where a linear component was demonstrated in 
relation to diminution of body mass index and functioning.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-013-0924-0
PMID: 23515976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Apr;31(4):345-55. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0030-0.

Decision-makers' preferences for approving new medicines in Wales: a 
discrete-choice experiment with assessment of external validity.

Linley WG(1), Hughes DA.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation, Institute of Medical 
and Social Care Research, Bangor University, Dean Street, Bangor, Gwynedd, LL57 
1UT, UK.

BACKGROUND: Few studies to date have explored the stated preferences of national 
decision makers for health technology adoption criteria, and none of these have 
compared stated decision-making behaviours against actual behaviours. Assessment 
of the external validity of stated preference studies, such as discrete-choice 
experiments (DCEs), remains an under-researched area.
OBJECTIVES: The primary aim was to explore the preferences of All Wales 
Medicines Strategy Group (AWMSG) appraisal committee and appraisal sub-committee 
(the New Medicines Group) members ('appraisal committees') for specific new 
medicines adoption criteria. Secondary aims were to explore the external 
validity of respondents' stated preferences and the impact of question choice 
options upon preference structures in DCEs.
METHODS: A DCE was conducted to estimate appraisal committees members' 
preferences for incremental cost effectiveness, quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) gained, annual number of patients expected to be treated, the impact of 
the disease on patients before treatment, and the assessment of uncertainty in 
the economic evidence submitted for new medicines compared with current UK NHS 
treatment. Respondents evaluated 28 pairs of hypothetical new medicines, making 
a primary forced choice between each pair and a more flexible secondary choice, 
which permitted either, neither or both new medicines to be chosen. The 
performance of the resultant models was compared against previous AWMSG 
decisions.
RESULTS: Forty-one out of a total of 80 past and present members of AWMSG 
appraisal committees completed the DCE. The incremental cost effectiveness of 
new medicines, and the QALY gains they provide, significantly (p < 0.0001) 
influence recommendations. Committee members were willing to accept higher 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and lower QALY gains for medicines that 
treat disease impacting primarily upon survival rather than quality of life, and 
where uncertainty in the cost-effectiveness estimates has been thoroughly 
explored. The number of patients to be treated by the new medicine did not exert 
a significant influence upon recommendations. The use of a flexible-choice 
question format revealed a different preference structure to the forced-choice 
format, but the performance of the two models was similar. Aggregate decisions 
of the AWMSG were well predicted by both models, but their sensitivity (64 %, 
68 %) and specificity (55 %, 64 %) were limited.
CONCLUSIONS: A willingness to trade the cost effectiveness and QALY gains 
against other factors indicates that economic efficiency and QALY maximisation 
are not the only considerations of committee members when making recommendations 
on the use of medicines in Wales. On average, appraisal committee members' 
stated preferences appear consistent with their actual decision-making 
behaviours, providing support for the external validity of our DCEs. However, as 
health technology assessment involves complex decision-making processes, and 
each individual recommendation may be influenced to varying degrees by a 
multitude of different considerations, the ability of our models to predict 
individual medicine recommendations is more limited.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0030-0
PMID: 23516033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. BMJ. 2013 Mar 20;346:f1853. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f1853.

People with learning disabilities are more likely to die prematurely, inquiry 
finds.

Torjesen I.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f1853
PMID: 23516163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. BMJ. 2013 Mar 20;346:f533. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f533.

Health policy in Europe: factors critical for success.

Mackenbach JP(1), Karanikolos M, McKee M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, 
Netherlands. j.mackenbach@erasmusmc.nl

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f533
PMID: 23516259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. PLoS One. 2013;8(3):e57624. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057624. Epub 2013 Mar
13.

The emergence of three human development clubs.

Vollmer S(1), Holzmann H, Ketterer F, Klasen S, Canning D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Courant Research Center Poverty, Equity and 
Growth in Developing Countries, University of Göttingen, Göttingen, Germany. 
svollmer@uni-goettingen.de

We examine the joint distribution of levels of income per capita, life 
expectancy, and years of schooling across countries in 1960 and in 2000. In 1960 
countries were clustered in two groups; a rich, highly educated, high longevity 
"developed" group and a poor, less educated, high mortality, "underdeveloped" 
group. By 2000 however we see the emergence of three groups; one underdeveloped 
group remaining near 1960 levels, a developed group with higher levels of 
education, income, and health than in 1960, and an intermediate group lying 
between these two. This finding is consistent with both the ideas of a new 
"middle income trap" that countries face even if they escape the "low income 
trap", as well as the notion that countries which escaped the poverty trap form 
a temporary "transition regime" along their path to the "developed" group.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0057624
PMCID: PMC3596382
PMID: 23516413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


578. Can J Gastroenterol. 2013 Mar;27(3):137-47. doi: 10.1155/2013/924640.

Disease burden of chronic hepatitis B among immigrants in Canada.

Wong WW, Woo G, Heathcote EJ, Krahn M.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of chronic hepatitis B (CHB) infection among 
immigrants to North America ranges from 2% to 15%, 40% of whom develop advanced 
liver disease. Screening for hepatitis B surface antigen is not recommended for 
immigrants.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the disease burden of CHB among immigrants in Canada 
using Markov cohort models comparing a cohort of immigrants with CHB versus a 
control cohort of immigrants without CHB.
METHODS: Markov cohort models were used to estimate life years, quality-adjusted 
life years and lifetime direct medical costs (adjusted to 2008 Canadian dollars) 
for a cohort of immigrants with CHB living in Canada in 2006, and an age-matched 
control cohort of immigrants without CHB living in Canada in 2006. Parameter 
values were derived from the published literature.
RESULTS: At the baseline estimate, the model suggested that the cohort of 
immigrants with CHB lost an average of 4.6 life years (corresponding to 1.5 
quality-adjusted life years), had an increased average of $24,249 for lifetime 
direct medical costs, and had a higher lifetime risk for decompensated cirrhosis 
(12%), hepatocellular carcinoma (16%) and need for liver transplant (5%) when 
compared with the control cohort.
DISCUSSION: Results of the present study showed that the socio-economic burden 
of CHB among immigrants living in Canada is substantial. Governments and health 
systems need to develop policies that promote early recognition of CHB and raise 
public awareness regarding hepatitis B to extend the lives of infected 
immigrants.

HISTORIQUE : La prévalence d’infection par l’hépatite B chronique (HBC) chez les 
immigrants d’Amérique du Nord oscille entre 2 % et 15 %, et 40 % d’entre eux 
contractent une maladie hépatique avancée. Le dépistage de l’antigène de surface 
de l’hépatite B n’est pas recommandé chez les immigrants.
OBJECTIF : Évaluer le fardeau d’HBC chez les immigrants du Canada au moyen de 
modèles de Markov qui comparent une cohorte d’immigrants atteints d’HBC à une 
cohorte témoin d’immigrants sans HBC.
MÉTHODOLOGIE : Les chercheurs ont utilisé les modèles de Markov pour évaluer les 
années de vie pondérées en fonction de la qualité et les coûts médicaux directs 
pendant la vie (rajustés en dollars canadiens de 2008) chez une cohorte 
d’immigrants atteints de l’HBC qui vivaient au Canada en 2006 et chez une 
cohorte témoin appariée selon l’âge d’immigrants sans HBC qui vivaient également 
au Canada en 2006. Ils ont dérivé les valeurs paramétriques des publications.
RÉSULTATS : Lors de l’évaluation de départ, le modèle laissait supposer que la 
cohorte d’immigrants ayant une HBC perdait une moyenne de 4,6 années de vie 
(soit 1,5 année de vie pondérée en fonction de la qualité), payaient en moyenne 
24 249 $ de plus en frais médicaux directs et présentaient un risque plus élevé 
de cirrhose décompensée (12 %), de carcinome hépatocellulaire (16 %) et 
d’indication de transplantation hépatique (5 %) au cours de leur vie que la 
cohorte témoin.
EXPOSÉ : Selon les résultats de la présente étude, les immigrants qui habitent 
au Canada présentent un important fardeau socioéconomique d’HBC. Les 
gouvernements et les systèmes de santé devraient préparer des politiques 
favorisant la promotion d’un dépistage rapide de l’HBC et mieux faire connaître 
l’hépatite B afin que les immigrants infectés vivent plus longtemps.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/924640
PMCID: PMC3732151
PMID: 23516678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


579. Transpl Int. 2013 May;26(5):527-34. doi: 10.1111/tri.12085. Epub 2013 Mar
21.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of antiviral treatment in liver transplant 
recipients with HCV infection.

Logge C(1), Vettorazzi E, Fischer L, Nashan B, Sterneck M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery and Visceral Transplantation, University 
Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.

Within 5-10 years, 20-40% of hepatitis C virus (HCV)-infected liver transplant 
recipients can be expected to develop cirrhosis. Here, cost-effectiveness of 
