Ferris LA(1), Denney LM, Maletsky LP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Kansas, Lawrence, KS 
66045, USA. lferris@ku.edu

Functional activities in daily life can require squatting and shifting body 
weight during transverse plane rotations. Stability of the knee can be 
challenging for people with a total knee replacement (TKR) due to reduced 
proprioception, nonconforming articular geometry, muscle strength, and soft 
tissue weakness. The objective of this study was to identify strategies utilized 
by individuals with TKR in double-stance transferring load during rotation and 
flexion. Twenty-three subjects were recruited for this study: 11 TKR subjects 
(age: 65 ± 6 years; BMI 27.4 ± 4.1) and 12 healthy subjects (age: 63 ± 7; BMI 
24.6 ± 3.8). Each subject completed a novel crossover button push task where 
rotation, flexion, and extension of the knee were utilized. Each subject 
performed two crossover reaching tasks where the subject used the opposite hand 
to cross over their body and press a button next to either their shoulder (high) 
or knee (low), then switched hands and rotated to press the opposite button, 
either low or high. The two tasks related to the order they pressed the buttons 
while crossing over, either low-to-high (L2H) or high-to-low (H2L). Force 
platforms measured ground reaction forces under each foot, which were then 
converted to lead force ratios (LFRs) based on the total force. Knee flexion 
angles were also measured. No statistical differences were found in the LFRs 
during the H2L and L2H tasks for the different groups, although differences in 
the variation of the loading within subjects were noted. A significant 
difference was found between healthy and unaffected knee angles and a strong 
trend between healthy and affected subject's knee angles in both H2L and L2H 
tasks. Large variations in the LFR at mid-task in the TKR subjects suggested 
possible difficulties in maintaining positional stability during these tasks. 
The TKR subjects maintained more of an extended knee, which is a consistent 
quadriceps avoidance strategy seen by other researchers in different tasks. 
These outcomes suggest that individuals with a TKR utilize strategies, such as 
keeping an extended knee, to achieve rotary tasks during knee flexion and 
extension. Repeated compensatory movements could result in forces that may cause 
difficulty over time in the hip joints or low back. Early identification of 
these strategies could improve TKR success and the return to activities of daily 
living that involve flexion and rotation.

DOI: 10.1115/1.4023385
PMID: 23445065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Rev Psiquiatr Salud Ment. 2010 Oct;3(4):119-27. doi:
10.1016/j.rpsm.2010.11.001.  Epub 2010 Nov 19.

[Impact of the spanish consensus on physical health of patients with 
schizophrenia].

[Article in Spanish]

Saiz-Ruiz J(1), Saiz-González MD, Alegría AA, Mena E, Luque J, Bobes J.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Ramón y Cajal de Investigación Sanitaria, IRYCIS, Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental (CIBERSAM), Hospital 
Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Departamento de Psiquiatría, Universidad de Alcalá, 
Madrid, España.

INTRODUCTION: This study evaluates the physical health of patients with 
schizophrenia and analyzes the change in the percentage of patients with 
evaluations in the known diabetes and cardiovascular risk predictors before and 
6 months after the dissemination of the "Consensus on Physical Health in 
Schizophrenia Patients".
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This is an epidemiological non-interventional and 
transversal study, in which 229 psychiatrists evaluated 1,193 clinical records 
of patients with a diagnose of schizophrenia according to ICD-10, attended in 
the psychiatry consultations planned in January and September of 2007. Study 
results were analyzed using descriptive statistics.
RESULTS: 1,193 evaluable patients were included, with a mean age of 39.7±11.6 
years, diagnosed of schizophrenia 15.0±10.3 years ago, and a 65.90% were men. 
The presence of concomitant diseases was 39.98%, being hypercholesterolemia 
(46.33%), hypertriglyceridaemia (33.54%) and arterial hypertension (26.00%) the 
most frequent. After the dissemination of the Consensus, the percentage of 
patients who had all the physical measurements taken increased by 13.75%. Forty 
eight per cent of the psychiatrists were considered as being aware of the 
Consensus. The percentage of measurements taken was higher within the 
psychiatrists who were aware of the Consensus (17.32%) than within those who 
were not aware of it (10.33%).
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study show an increase of the physical health 
control from patients with schizophrenia after the dissemination of the 
Consensus, which should improve an integral approach of these patients to ensure 
a similar life expectancy, quality of life and function to the general 
population.

Copyright © 2010 SEP y SEPB. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rpsm.2010.11.001
PMID: 23446034


394. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2013 Feb 28;13:29. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-13-29.

Cost effectiveness of a computer-delivered intervention to improve HIV 
medication adherence.

Ownby RL(1), Waldrop-Valverde D, Jacobs RJ, Acevedo A, Caballero J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Medicine, Room 1477, Nova 
Southeastern University, Fort Lauderdale, FL 33316, USA. ro71@nova.edu

BACKGROUND: High levels of adherence to medications for HIV infection are 
essential for optimal clinical outcomes and to reduce viral transmission, but 
many patients do not achieve required levels. Clinician-delivered interventions 
can improve patients' adherence, but usually require substantial effort by 
trained individuals and may not be widely available. Computer-delivered 
interventions can address this problem by reducing required staff time for 
delivery and by making the interventions widely available via the Internet. We 
previously developed a computer-delivered intervention designed to improve 
patients' level of health literacy as a strategy to improve their HIV medication 
adherence. The intervention was shown to increase patients' adherence, but it 
was not clear that the benefits resulting from the increase in adherence could 
justify the costs of developing and deploying the intervention. The purpose of 
this study was to evaluate the relation of development and deployment costs to 
the effectiveness of the intervention.
METHODS: Costs of intervention development were drawn from accounting reports 
for the grant under which its development was supported, adjusted for costs 
primarily resulting from the project's research purpose. Effectiveness of the 
intervention was drawn from results of the parent study. The relation of the 
intervention's effects to changes in health status, expressed as utilities, was 
also evaluated in order to assess the net cost of the intervention in terms of 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs). Sensitivity analyses evaluated ranges of 
possible intervention effectiveness and durations of its effects, and costs were 
evaluated over several deployment scenarios.
RESULTS: The intervention's cost effectiveness depends largely on the number of 
persons using it and the duration of its effectiveness. Even with modest effects 
for a small number of patients the intervention was associated with net cost 
savings in some scenarios and for durations greater than three months and longer 
it was usually associated with a favorable cost per QALY. For intermediate and 
larger assumed effects and longer durations of intervention effectiveness, the 
intervention was associated with net cost savings.
CONCLUSIONS: Computer-delivered adherence interventions may be a cost-effective 
strategy to improve adherence in persons treated for HIV.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov identifier NCT01304186.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-13-29
PMCID: PMC3599639
PMID: 23446180 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Drug Saf. 2012 Jan;35 Suppl 1:63-71. doi: 10.1007/BF03319104.

Frailty and safety: the example of diabetes.

Abbatecola AM(1), Olivieri F, Corsonello A, Strollo F, Fumagalli A, Lattanzio F.

Author information:
(1)Scientific Direction, Italian National Research Center on Aging (INRCA), 
Ancona, Italy. angela_abbatecola@yahoo.com

Frailty is considered a syndrome of decreased reserve and resistance to 
stressors and is clinically expressed as muscle weakness, poor exercise 
tolerance, factors related to body composition, sarcopenia and disability. In 
addition, there is a close relationship between age-related metabolic changes 
and the occurrence of comorbidities that may in turn lead to frailty.Even though 
the downward spiral of frailty is activated more quickly in older persons with 
type 2 diabetes, it is reversible with appropriate interventions before reaching 
a high level of severity. The hazard for geriatric patients with type 2 diabetes 
is that frailty encompasses diverse complications already associated with or 
caused by diabetes. Frailty is also associated with cognitive impairment, 
reduced ability to perform activities of daily living and increased expression 
of inflammatory and coagulation markers that may contribute to the adverse 
microvascular effects of diabetes. Although glycaemic control remains the main 
targeting achievement in type 2 diabetes, especially in well-functioning older 
persons, this is not appropriate for those with frailty. Frail elderly people 
with type 2 diabetes are a specific group in need of treatment parameters for 
both initial and maintenance therapy with oral antidiabetic agents. Therefore, 
the prescription of an antidiabetic agent in such individuals must take into 
consideration not only the standard goal of lowering hyperglycaemic levels, but 
also improving the quality of life and life expectancy. The clinical management 
of this population is currently particularly demanding, requiring special 
considerations with good medical decision making. Clinical aspects complicating 
diabetes care in older people include cognitive decline, physical functional 
decline and frailty. Available oral antidiabetic drugs include insulin 
secretagogues (meglitinides and sulfonylureas), biguanides (metformin), 
α-glucosidase inhibitors, thiazolidinediones and inhibitors of glucagon-like 
peptide 1 (GLP-1) degrading enzyme dipeptidyl peptidase 4. In addition, we will 
discuss injection treatment with GLP-1 analogues. This review will underline the 
association between diabetes and some frailty components in old patients and how 
specific antidiabetic agents may play a specific role in improving outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/BF03319104
PMID: 23446787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Int J Adolesc Med Health. 2013;25(1):13-30. doi: 10.1515/ijamh-2013-0003.

Health and educational performance among young migrants.

Kirkcaldy BD(1), Furnham A, Siefen RG.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for the Study of Occupational and Mental Health, 
Haydnstr. 61, 40593 Düsseldorf, Germany. brucedavidkirkcaldy@yahoo.de

This study is a part replication of an earlier study by on health efficacy, 
educational attainment and well-being among 30 nations. It includes, however, 
data from these nations, as well as the latest Pisa results and update 
socioeconomic data and sociological variables which include divorce rate, number 
of persons/household, employment rates, and measures of physical and mental 
health (including new scales of well-being, e.g., mental health index, life 
satisfaction, suicide rates). More importantly, it includes measures of migrant 
rates among children and adults in each country, the focus of attention of this 
article. New material on health and educational expenditure are provided.

DOI: 10.1515/ijamh-2013-0003
PMID: 23446938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. J Econ Entomol. 2013 Feb;106(1):1-9. doi: 10.1603/ec12200.

Demographic analysis, a comparison of the jackknife and bootstrap methods, and 
predation projection: a case study of Chrysopa pallens (Neuroptera: 
Chrysopidae).

Yu LY(1), Chen ZZ, Zheng FQ, Shi AJ, Guo TT, Yeh BH, Chi H, Xu YY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, Shandong Agricultural University, Taian, Shandong 
271018, P. R. China.

The life table of the green lacewing, Chrysopa pallens (Rambur), was studied at 
22 degrees C, a photoperiod of 15:9 (L:D) h, and 80% relative humidity in the 
laboratory. The raw data were analyzed using the age-stage, two-sex life table. 
The intrinsic rate of increase (r), the finite rate of increase (lambda), the 
net reproduction rate (R0), and the mean generation time (T) of Ch. pallens were 
0.1258 d(-1), 1.1340 d(-1), 241.4 offspring and 43.6 d, respectively. For the 
estimation of the means, variances, and SEs of the population parameters, we 
compared the jackknife and bootstrap techniques. Although similar values of the 
means and SEs were obtained with both techniques, significant differences were 
observed in the frequency distribution and variances of all parameters. The 
jackknife technique will result in a zero net reproductive rate upon the 
omission of a male, an immature death, or a nonreproductive female. This result 
represents, however, a contradiction because an intrinsic rate of increase 
exists in this situation. Therefore, we suggest that the jackknife technique 
should not be used for the estimation of population parameters. In predator-prey 
interactions, the nonpredatory egg and pupal stages of the predator are time 
refuges for the prey, and the pest population can grow during these times. In 
this study, a population projection based on the age-stage, two-sex life table 
is used to determine the optimal interval between releases to fill the predation 
gaps and maintain the predatory capacity of the control agent.

DOI: 10.1603/ec12200
PMID: 23448008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. J Econ Entomol. 2013 Feb;106(1):10-5. doi: 10.1603/ec11430.

Sublethal effects of paichongding on Nilaparvata lugens (Homoptera: 
Delphacidae).

Qin X(1), Zhang J, Liu Q, Chen Y, Zhang R.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biocontrol & Institute of Entomology, Sun Yat-Sen 
University, Guangzhou 510275, China.

Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) is a major rice pest in Asia Paichongding is a novel 
neonicotinoid insecticide developed in 2008. The effects of this insecticide on 
life-table parameters and wing formation of N. lugens were examined in the 
laboratory. The results showed that paichongding could significantly reduce the 
fecundity of N. lugens, demonstrating further activity against this pest in 
addition to direct toxicity. The fecundity of N. lugens treated with LC20, LC30, 
LC40, and LC50 of paichongding were 87.44, 79.63, 63.31, and 52.66% of the 
control, respectively. The relative fitness values were 0.55, 0.41, 0.21, and 
0.09, respectively, for LC20, LC30, LC40, and LC50 paichongding treatments. 
Sublethal concentrations of paichongding showed significant induction of 
macropterous offspring, which would be one kind of coping mechanism of N. lugens 
response to insecticide stress.

DOI: 10.1603/ec11430
PMID: 23448009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Econ Entomol. 2013 Feb;106(1):299-304. doi: 10.1603/ec12162.

Do weaver ant (Hymenoptera: Formicidae) marks affect mango internal quality and 
storage life?

Peng R(1), Christian K.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute for the Environment and Livelihoods, Charles Darwin 
University, Darwin NT 0909, Australia. renkang.peng@cdu.edu.au

In implementing the integrated pest management mango (Mangifera indica L.) 
program using weaver ants (Oecophylla smaragdina F.) as a major component in the 
Northern Territory of Australia, we received a number of questions from farmers 
and extension officers asking whether weaver ant marks reduce internal fruit 
quality and induce fruit rot, which is economically important. However, this 
issue has not been investigated. Soluble sugar content in fruits with and 
without weaver ant marks and observations on the storage of fruits with the ant 
marks were recorded in 2002 and 2003. The sugar contents were, in general, 
higher on the side of the fruit with a relatively large area of ant marks than 
on the side with a smaller area of ant marks, irrespective of whether fruits 
were exposed to the sun or not. The field experiment showed that sugar content 
was generally higher in the treatment with weaver ants plus soft chemicals than 
in the insecticide treatment. For the storage of fruits bearing weaver ant 
marks, no signs of diffuse rot from any ant marks were observed, but fruit skin 
without the ant marks developed a considerable number of dark open lenticels, 
most of which developed to rot marks and patches. These results suggest that 
weaver ant marks are positively correlated with internal fruit quality, do not 
induce fruit rot and can be used as an indicator of better fruit quality and 
safety.

DOI: 10.1603/ec12162
PMID: 23448044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2013 Jul;37(7):1179-87. doi: 10.1111/acer.12071. Epub
2013  Feb 28.

Lifetime drinking trajectories among veterans in treatment for HIV.

Jacob T(1), Blonigen DM, Upah R, Justice A.

Author information:
(1)Family Research Center, Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Menlo 
Park, CA 94025-2539, USA. ttjbocaj@aol.com

BACKGROUND: Previous work on the course of drinking across the life course 
identified 4 distinct patterns of problem drinking: severe chronic (SC), severe 
nonchronic (SNC), late onset (LO), and young adult (YA). The purpose of the 
current study was to determine the generalizability of these findings to a 
sample of midlife veterans with quite different characteristics from those 
previously assessed; specifically, veterans in treatment for HIV and veterans in 
treatment for non-HIV medical issues.
METHODS: Participants were drawn from the Veterans Aging Cohort Study that 
included HIV-positive and matched non-HIV participants. As in our earlier 
studies, the lifetime drinking history was used to assess drinking phases, and 
latent growth mixture models were used for analyses.
RESULTS: Similar to previous findings, both the HIV+ and non-HIV groups 
exhibited 4 patterns of drinking (SC, SNC, LO, and YA). SC drinkers had younger 
ages of onset for drinking and longer duration of smoking. SC drinkers also had 
the highest rates of cocaine use. Within the HIV+ subsample, SC and LO drinkers 
increased their drinking after their HIV diagnosis.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first to examine lifetime drinking patterns among 
those treated for HIV and provides an excellent starting point for examining 
finer-grained relationships involving drinking, onset of HIV, and treatment 
outcomes. Absent from the current study and of particular importance to future 
work in this area is the need for precise information regarding the temporal 
relationship between date of HIV diagnosis, onset of treatment, and changes in 
drinking behavior over the life course.

Copyright © 2013 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12071
PMCID: PMC5596456
PMID: 23448171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Am Nat. 2013 Mar;181(3):410-20. doi: 10.1086/669155. Epub 2013 Jan 18.

Contributions of covariance: decomposing the components of stochastic population 
growth in Cypripedium calceolus.

Davison R(1), Nicolè F, Jacquemyn H, Tuljapurkar S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA. 
davison@demogr.mpg.de

Although correlations between vital rates can have important effects on 
evolution and demography, few studies have investigated their effects on 
population dynamics. Here, we extend life-table response experiments (LTREs) to 
variable environments, showing how to quantify contributions made by (1) mean 
vital rates, (2) variability driven by environmental fluctuations, (3) 
correlations implying demographic trade-offs and reflecting stage transition 
synchrony, and (4) elasticities reflecting local selection pressures. Applying 
our methods to the lady's slipper orchid Cypripedium calceolus, we found that 
mean rates accounted for 77.1% of all effects on the stochastic growth rate, 
variability accounted for 12.6%, elasticities accounted for 6.6%, and 
correlations accounted for 3.7%. Stochastic effects accounted for 17.6%, 15.3%, 
and 35.9% of the total in our three populations. Larger elasticities to 
transitions between dormancy states and stronger correlations between emergence 
and survival suggest that one population was under greater pressure to remain 
active while the other two showed survival payoffs for dormancy in poor years. 
Strong negative correlations between dormancy, emergence, and stasis balanced 
opposing contributions, resulting in near stationarity in two populations. These 
new methods provide an additional tool for researchers investigating stochastic 
population dynamics and should be useful for a broad range of applications in 
basic ecology and conservation biology.

DOI: 10.1086/669155
PMCID: PMC3810155
PMID: 23448889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2013 Apr;47(3):179-91. doi:
10.1177/1538574413478473.  Epub 2013 Feb 27.

Cool excimer laser-assisted angioplasty (CELA) and tibial balloon angioplasty 
(TBA) in management of infragenicular arterial occlusion in critical lower limb 
ischemia (CLI).

Sultan S(1), Tawfick W, Hynes N.

Author information:
(1)Western Vascular Institute, University College Hospital Galway, Galway, 
Ireland. sherif.sultan@hse.ie

We aim to compare cool excimer laser-assisted angioplasty (CELA) versus tibial 
balloon angioplasty (TBA) in patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) with 
tibial artery occlusive disease. The primary end point is sustained clinical 
improvement (SCI) and amputation-free survival (AFS). The secondary end points 
are binary restenosis, target extremity revascularization (TER), and 
cost-effectiveness. From June 2005 to October 2010, 1506 patients were referred 
with peripheral vascular disease and 572 with CLI. A total of 80 patients 
underwent 89 endovascular revascularizations (EVRs) for tibial occlusions, 47 
using TBA and 42 using CELA. All patients were Rutherford category 4 to 6. 
Three-year SCI was enhanced with CELA (81%) compared to TBA (63.8%; P = .013). 
Three-year AFS significantly improved with CELA (95.2%) versus TBA (89.4%; P = 
.0165). Three-year freedom from TER was significantly improved with CELA (92.9%) 
versus 78.7% TBA (P = .026). Three-year freedom from MACE was comparable in both 
the groups (P = .455). Patients with CELA had significantly improved quality 
time without symptoms of disease or toxicity of treatment (Q-TWiST) at 3 years 
(10.5 months; P = .048) with incremental cost of €2073.19 per quality-adjusted 
life year gained. Tibial EVR provides exceptional outcome in CLI. The CELA has 
superior SCI, AFS, and freedom from TER, with improved Q-TWiST and 
cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574413478473
PMID: 23448976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. J Hypertens. 2013 May;31(5):848-57. doi: 10.1097/HJH.0b013e32835ed5b9.

Pulsatile hemodynamics and cardiovascular risk factors in very old patients: 
background, sex aspects and implications.

Safar ME(1), Nilsson PM.

Author information:
(1)Paris-Descartes University, Faculty of Medicine; Hôtel-Dieu Hospital; AP-HP, 
Diagnosis Center, Paris, France. michel.safar@htd.aphp.fr

BACKGROUND: In the nineteenth century, prior to the introduction of the cuff 
sphygmomanometer, stiffening of arteries was recognized as an indicator of 
vascular ageing and cardiovascular risk. Through the twentieth century, views on 
vascular ageing came to focus on brachial blood pressures and on occlusive 
atherosclerotic disease. Such focus deflected attention from primary ageing 
changes, represented by stiffening and dilation of the proximal aorta.
AIM: This review emphasizes the cushioning function of elastic arteries, 
principally the aorta, now when life expectancy largely exceeds 80 years 
providing new challenges for medical treatment in the very old.
METHODS AND RESULTS: First, life expectancy has increased significantly for both 
sexes and is particularly prolonged after menopause. Second, phenotypic changes 
are noticed such as that the age-related increase of waist circumference and 
hyperlipidemia is markedly slowed, whereas the concomitant rise in C-reactive 
protein is enhanced and hyperglycaemia develops in many patients. Third, the 
systolic, diastolic and pulse pressures rise with age is attenuated or even 
stopped, as is the degree of arterial stiffness. Finally, in very old patients, 
the main causes of death are cardiovascular, including cardiac deaths, which 
differ markedly by causation in men (due to lowered ejection fraction) and women 
(due to arrhythmia disorders). Deaths associated with renal impairment are 
observed in both sexes.
CONCLUSION: No simple linear relationships exist between all these phenotypic 
variables and the ageing process. Treatment goals of hypertension and diabetes 
mellitus remain difficult to predict from such data. Prevention of 
cardiovascular risk in the very old is thus influenced by limited evidence and 
important ethical considerations.

DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0b013e32835ed5b9
PMID: 23449020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Discov Med. 2013 Feb;15(81):127-33.

Novel therapeutic approaches for cystic fibrosis.

Wilschanski M(1).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Gastroenterology Unit, Division of Pediatrics, Hadassah Hospitals, 
Hebrew University, Jerusalem 91240, Israel. michaelwil@hadassah.org.il

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most common lethal monogenic disorder. Life 
expectancy of CF patients is rising towards a mean of 40 years with advances in 
all aspects of therapy apart from treating the basic molecular defect. In the 
twenty three years since the discovery of the gene that causes cystic fibrosis, 
our knowledge of how mutations in this gene cause the varied pathophysiological 
manifestations of this disease has increased substantially. This knowledge has 
led to the possibility of new therapeutic approaches aimed at the basic defect. 
Apart from gene therapy, several novel compounds have recently been discovered 
using high-throughput screening which appear promising enough to develop into 
effective drugs to cure the basic defect. This article will summarize our 
current knowledge of mutation specific therapy and will focus on orally 
bioavailable potentiators and correctors and suppressors of premature 
termination codons. Further development of these drugs will enable treatment of 
the basic defect in diseases like CF and open the door for treatment of disease 
according to gene sequencing -- true personalized medicine.

PMID: 23449115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. AIDS. 2013 Jun 19;27(10):1641-55. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283601199.

Insurability of HIV-positive people treated with antiretroviral therapy in 
Europe: collaborative analysis of HIV cohort studies.

Kaulich-Bartz J(1), Dam W, May MT, Lederberger B, Widmer U, Phillips AN, Grabar 
S, Mocroft A, Vilaro J, van Sighem A, Moreno S, Dabis F, Monforte AD, Teira R, 
Ingle SM, Sterne JA; Writing Committee for the Antiretroviral Therapy Cohort 
Collaboration.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Re Limited, Zurich, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: To increase equitable access to life insurance for HIV-positive 
individuals by identifying subgroups with lower relative mortality.
DESIGN: Collaborative analysis of cohort studies.
METHODS: We estimated relative mortality from 6 months after starting 
antiretroviral therapy (ART), compared with the insured population in each 
country, among adult patients from European cohorts participating in the ART 
Cohort Collaboration (ART-CC) who were not infected via injection drug use, had 
not tested positive for hepatitis C, and started triple ART between 1996-2008. 
We used Poisson models for mortality, with the expected number of deaths 
according to age, sex and country specified as offset.
RESULTS: There were 1236 deaths recorded among 34,680 patients followed for 
174,906 person-years. Relative mortality was lower in patients with higher CD4 
cell count and lower HIV-1 RNA 6 months after starting ART, without prior AIDS, 
who were older, and who started ART after 2000. Compared with insured 
HIV-negative lives, estimated relative mortality of patients aged 20-39 from 
France, Italy, United Kingdom, Spain and Switzerland, who started ART after 2000 
had 6-month CD4 cell count at least 350 cells/μl and HIV-1 RNA less than 10⁴ 
copies/ml and without prior AIDS was 459%. The proportion of exposure time with 
relative mortality below 300, 400, 500 and 600% was 28, 43, 61 and 64%, 
respectively, suggesting that more than 50% of patients (those with lower 
relative mortality) could be insurable.
CONCLUSION: The continuing long-term effectiveness of ART implies that life 
insurance with sufficiently long duration to cover a mortgage is feasible for 
many HIV-positive people successfully treated with ART for more than 6 months.

© 2013 Creative Common License

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0b013e3283601199
PMCID: PMC3678894
PMID: 23449349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Semin Intervent Radiol. 2012 Mar;29(1):3-9. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1302445.

Medical management of venous thromboembolism: what the interventional 
radiologist needs to know.

Kasthuri RS(1), Key NS.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Department of Medicine, University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.

Deep vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism are considered manifestations of the 
same pathophysiological process and are together referred to as venous 
thromboembolism (VTE). VTE is a common disorder with an incidence of 1 to 3 in 
1000 in the general population. It is estimated that the incidence of VTE is 
likely to increase as the average life expectancy of the U.S. population 
increases. Treatment of VTE consists of anticoagulation; the duration of 
anticoagulation is largely determined by the circumstances surrounding 
development of the thrombotic event. Vitamin K antagonists, the only oral 
anticoagulants approved for treatment of VTE in the United States, have several 
drawbacks and therefore new oral anticoagulants are currently in various stages 
of development. This review focuses on the risk factors for VTE and the approach 
to determining the duration of anticoagulation in patients with VTE. Results of 
clinical trials on the new oral anticoagulants that may soon be licensed for the 
treatment of VTE are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1302445
PMCID: PMC3348766
PMID: 23449379


407. QJM. 2013 Aug;106(8):763-5. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hct056. Epub 2013 Feb 28.

Lessons from a patient with Turner syndrome.

Turtle EJ(1), Sule AA, Bath LE, Denvir MA, Gebbie A, Mirsadraee S, Webb DJ.

Author information:
(1)Queen's Medical Research Institute, University of Edinburgh/BHF Centre for 
Cardiovascular Science, Room E3.22, 47 Little France Crescent, Edinburgh EH16 
4TJ, UK.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hct056
PMID: 23449929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. J Gastrointest Oncol. 2013 Mar;4(1):62-71. doi: 
10.3978/j.issn.2078-6891.2012.053.

Assessment of clinical benefit and quality of life in patients undergoing 
cytoreduction and Hyperthermic Intraperitoneal Chemotherapy (HIPEC) for 
management of peritoneal metastases.

Zhu Y(1), Hanna N, Boutros C, Alexander HR Jr.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery and the Marlene and 
Stewart Greenebaum Cancer Center, University of Maryland School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

Peritoneal metastasis is a significant clinical challenge; life expectancy 
following diagnosis is usually very short. Surgical cytoreduction with HIPEC is 
being used with increasing frequency in selected patients; most outcome data 
have shown that prolonged median survivals can be observed in selected patients. 
This review summarizes the published data related to outcome and quality of life 
after cytoreduction and HIPEC to provide insights into its use in patients with 
peritoneal carcinomatosis.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2078-6891.2012.053
PMCID: PMC3562622
PMID: 23450068


409. Endokrynol Pol. 2013;64(1):46-52.

Links between growth hormone and aging.

Bartke A(1), Westbrook R, Sun L, Ratajczak M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Southern Illinois University School of 
Medicine, Springfield, IL 62794, United States. abartke@siumed.edu

Studies in mutant, gene knock-out and transgenic mice have demonstrated that 
growth hormone (GH) signalling has a major impact on ageing and longevity. 
Growth hormone-resistant and GH-deficient animals live much longer than their 
normal siblings, while transgenic mice overexpressing GH are short lived. 
Actions of GH in juvenile animals appear to be particularly important for life 
extension and responsible for various phenotypic characteristics of long-lived 
hypopituitary mutants. Available evidence indicates that reduced GH signalling 
is linked to extended longevity by multiple interacting mechanisms including 
increased stress resistance, reduced growth, altered profiles of cytokines 
produced by the adipose tissue, and various metabolic adjustments such as 
enhanced insulin sensitivity, increased oxygen consumption (VO2/g) and reduced 
respiratory quotient. The effects of removing visceral fat indicate that 
increased levels of adiponectin and reduced levels of pro-inflammatory cytokines 
in GH-resistant mice are responsible for their increased insulin sensitivity. 
Increased VO2 apparently represents increased energy expenditure for 
thermogenesis, because VO2 of mutant and normal mice does not differ at 
thermoneutral temperature. Recent studies identified GH- and IGF-1-dependent 
maintenance of bone marrow populations of very small embryonic-like stem cells 
(VSELs) as another likely mechanism of delayed ageing and increased longevity of 
GH-deficient and GH-resistant animals. Many of the physiological characteristics 
of long-lived, GH-related mouse mutants are shared by exceptionally long-lived 
people and by individuals genetically predisposed to longevity.

PMCID: PMC3647466
PMID: 23450447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Feb 28;(2):CD005375. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD005375.pub3.

Surgery for scoliosis in Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

Cheuk DK(1), Wong V, Wraige E, Baxter P, Cole A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics and Adolescent Medicine, The University of Hong 
Kong, Queen Mary Hospital, Hong Kong, China. cheukkld@hkucc.hku.hk.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2015;(10):CD005375.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2007;(1):CD005375.

BACKGROUND: Scoliosis in people with Duchenne muscular dystrophy is usually 
progressive and treated with surgery. However, it is unclear whether the 
existing evidence is sufficiently scientifically rigorous to support a 
recommendation for spinal surgery for most people with Duchenne muscular 
dystrophy and scoliosis. This is an updated review and an updated search was 
undertaken in which no new studies were found.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the effectiveness and safety of spinal surgery in 
people with Duchenne muscular dystrophy with scoliosis. We intended to test 
whether spinal surgery is effective in increasing survival, improving 
respiratory function, improving quality of life and overall functioning; and 
whether spinal surgery is associated with severe adverse effects.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the specialized registers of the Cochrane 
Neuromuscular Disease Group (31 July 2012), MEDLINE (January 1966 to July 2012), 
EMBASE (January 1947 to July 2012), CENTRAL (2012, Issue 7 in the Cochrane 
Library), CINAHL Plus(January 1937 to July 2012), Proquest Dissertation and 
Thesis Database (January 1980 to July 2012), and the National Institute of 
Health Clinical Trials Database (July 2012). No language restrictions were 
imposed.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We planned to include controlled clinical trials using 
random or quasi-random allocation of treatment evaluating all forms of spinal 
surgery for scoliosis in people with Duchenne muscular dystrophy in the review. 
The control interventions would have been no treatment, non-operative treatment, 
or a different form of spinal surgery.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two authors independently examined the search 
results and evaluated the study characteristics against inclusion criteria to 
decide which ones would be included in the review.
MAIN RESULTS: On searching, 47 studies were relevant but none met the inclusion 
criteria for the review, because they were not clinical trials but prospective 
or retrospective reviews of case series.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: Since there were no randomized controlled clinical trials 
available to evaluate the effectiveness of scoliosis surgery in people with 
Duchenne muscular dystrophy, no evidence-based recommendation can be made for 
clinical practice. People with scoliosis should be informed about the 
uncertainty of benefits and potential risks of surgery for scoliosis. Randomized 
controlled trials are needed to investigate the effectiveness of scoliosis 
surgery, in terms of quality of life, functional status, respiratory function 
and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005375.pub3
PMID: 23450561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2013 Jan;110(1-2):14-23; quiz 24; e1-2. doi: 
10.3238/arztebl.2013.0014. Epub 2013 Jan 7.

Competitive sports and the heart: benefit or risk?

Scharhag J(1), Löllgen H, Kindermann W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine III: Cardiology, Angiology and Pneumology, 
Heidelberg University Hospital, Heidelberg, Germany. 
juergen.scharhag@med.uni-heidelberg.de

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2013 Apr;110(17):299.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2013 Apr;110(17):299.

BACKGROUND: Controversy surrounds the cardiac effects of competitive sports and 
the athlete's heart. In this review, we present and discuss the main 
cardiological findings in competitive athletes.
METHOD: Selective review of pertinent literature retrieved by a search with the 
keywords "athlete's heart," "ECG," "echocardiography," "endurance exercise," 
"longevity," and others.
RESULTS: Regular exercise leads to functional and structural adaptations that 
improve cardiac function. Athlete's heart, which develops rarely, is a typical 
finding in endurance athletes. This condition is characterized by physiological, 
harmonically eccentric hypertrophy of all cardiac chambers. The athlete's ECG 
can be used to distinguish physiological, training-related changes from 
pathological training-unrelated changes. The athlete's heart function is normal 
at rest and increases appropriately during exercise. The cardiac markers 
troponin and B-type natriuretic peptide are within the normal range in healthy 
athletes at rest, but can temporarily be mildly elevated after exhausting 
endurance-exercise, without evidence of myocardial damage. The epidemiological 
data suggest that participation in competitive sports increases life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Competitive exercise does not induce cardiac damage in individuals 
with healthy hearts, but does induce physiological functional and structural 
cardiac adaptations which have positive effects on life expectancy.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2013.0014
PMCID: PMC3561756
PMID: 23450998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2013 Jun;15(6):564-71. doi: 10.1111/dom.12086. Epub
2013  Apr 1.

A comparison of health-related quality of life (health utility) between insulin 
degludec and insulin glargine: a meta-analysis of phase 3 trials.

Freemantle N(1), Evans M, Christensen T, Wolden ML, Bjorner JB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Population Health, UCL Medical School, London, 
UK. nicholas.freemantle@ucl.ac.uk

AIM: To evaluate health-related quality of life (health utility) scores in 
patients with diabetes receiving insulin degludec (IDeg) or insulin glargine 
(IGlar).
METHODS: Patient-level data from six, randomized, controlled, open-label, 
multicentre, confirmatory, treat-to-target trials of 26- or 52 weeks' duration 
were pooled in this analysis. The Short Form 36 (SF-36) version-2 health 
questionnaire was completed by patients at baseline and end-of-trial. SF-36 
scores for 4001 individual patients were then mapped onto the EuroQol-5D health 
utility scale, which has a range from -0.59 (a state worse than death) to 1.00 
(perfect health).
RESULTS: IDeg treatment exhibited a significant improvement in health status of 
0.005 (CI: 0.0006; 0.009) points compared with IGlar (p < 0.024). Gender, 
region, trial and age also had a significant influence on estimated utility 
scores as did baseline utility scores, p < 0.05. Prior to the removal of 
interaction variables a difference of 0.008 points was observed, p < 0.045. 
Previous insulin treatment did not have an impact on the final outcome.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that IDeg is associated with a modest, but 
statistically significant, improvement in health utility compared with IGlar in 
patients with diabetes.

© 2013 Blackwell Publishing Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/dom.12086
PMCID: PMC4298030
PMID: 23451759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2013 Mar;61(3):380-7. doi: 10.1111/jgs.12151. Epub 2013
Mar 1.

Refining physician quality indicators for screening mammography in older women: 
distinguishing appropriate use from overuse.

Tan A(1), Kuo YF, Elting LS, Goodwin JS.

Author information:
(1)Sealy Center on Aging, University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX 
77555, USA. altan@utmb.edu

OBJECTIVES: To assess the feasibility of refining physician quality indicators 
of screening mammography use based on patient life expectancy.
DESIGN: Retrospective population-based cohort study.
SETTING: Texas.
PARTICIPANTS: Three thousand five hundred ninety-five usual care providers 
(UCPs) with at least 10 female patients aged 67 and older on January 1, 2008, 
with an estimated life expectancy of 7 years or more (222,584 women) and at 
least 10 women with an estimated life expectancy of less than 7 years (90,903 
women), based on age and comorbidity.
MEASUREMENTS: Screening mammography use in 2008-09 by each provider in each 
population.
RESULTS: The average adjusted mammography screening rates for UCPs were 31.1% 
for women with a life expectancy of less than 7 years and 55.2% for women with a 
life expectancy of 7 years or longer. For women with limited life expectancy, 
3.7% of UCPs had significantly lower and 9.2% had significantly higher than 
average adjusted mammography screening rates. For women with longer life 
expectancy, 16.7% of UCPs had significantly lower and 19.7% had significantly 
higher than average rates. UCP adjusted screening rates were stable over time 
(2006-07 vs 2008-09, correlation coefficient (r) = 0.65, P < .001). There was a 
strong correlation between UCP screening rates for their female patients with a 
life expectancy of less than 7 years and 7 years or longer (r = 0.67, P < .001). 
Most physician characteristics associated with higher screening rates (e.g., 
being female and foreign trained) in women with longer life expectancy were also 
associated with higher screening rates in women with limited life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Providers with high mammography screening rates for women with 
longer life expectancy also tend to screen women with limited life expectancy. 
Quality indicators for screening practice can be improved by distinguishing 
appropriate use from overuse based on patient life expectancy.

© 2013, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2013, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.12151
PMCID: PMC3602404
PMID: 23452077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: All authors have no 
financial or other kind of personal conflicts with this paper.


414. J Thromb Haemost. 2013 Jun;11(6):1032-42. doi: 10.1111/jth.12184.

Cost-effectiveness of additional catheter-directed thrombolysis for deep vein 
thrombosis.

Enden T(1), Resch S, White C, Wik HS, Kløw NE, Sandset PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology, Oslo University Hospital, Oslo, Norway. 
tone.enden@medisin.uio.no

Comment in
    J Thromb Haemost. 2013 Jun;11(6):1029-31.

BACKGROUND: Additional treatment with catheter-directed thrombolysis (CDT) has 
recently been shown to reduce post-thrombotic syndrome (PTS).
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the cost effectiveness of additional CDT compared with 
standard treatment alone.
METHODS: Using a Markov decision model, we compared the two treatment strategies 
in patients with a high proximal deep vein thrombosis (DVT) and a low risk of 
bleeding. The model captured the development of PTS, recurrent venous 
thromboembolism and treatment-related adverse events within a lifetime horizon 
and the perspective of a third-party payer. Uncertainty was assessed with 
one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyzes. Model inputs from the CaVenT 
study included PTS development, major bleeding from CDT and utilities for post 
DVT states including PTS. The remaining clinical inputs were obtained from the 
literature. Costs obtained from the CaVenT study, hospital accounts and the 
literature are expressed in US dollars ($); effects in quality adjusted life 
years (QALY).
RESULTS: In base case analyzes, additional CDT accumulated 32.31 QALYs compared 
with 31.68 QALYs after standard treatment alone. Direct medical costs were 
$64,709 for additional CDT and $51,866 for standard treatment. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was $20,429/QALY gained. One-way sensitivity 
analysis showed model sensitivity to the clinical efficacy of both strategies, 
but the ICER remained < $55,000/QALY over the full range of all parameters. The 
probability that CDT is cost effective was 82% at a willingness to pay threshold 
of $50,000/QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Additional CDT is likely to be a cost-effective alternative to the 
standard treatment for patients with a high proximal DVT and a low risk of 
bleeding.

© 2013 International Society on Thrombosis and Haemostasis.

DOI: 10.1111/jth.12184
PMCID: PMC4027959
PMID: 23452204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of Conflict of Interests The authors 
state that they have no conflict of interests.


415. Public Health. 2013 May;127(5):482-4. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.12.011. Epub
2013  Feb 28.

Contribution of smoking to the gender gap in life expectancy in Japan.

Yorifuji T(1), Takao S, Inoue S, Tanihara S, Kawachi I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Ecology, Okayama University, Graduate School of 
Environmental and Life Science, 3-1-1 Tsushima-naka, Kita-ku, Okayama 700-8530, 
Japan. yorichan@md.okayama-u.ac.jp

Comment in
    Public Health. 2013 Nov;127(11):1052-3.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2012.12.011
PMID: 23453192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Apr;82:1-9. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.12.028. Epub
2013  Jan 21.

Revisiting the Hispanic mortality advantage in the United States: the role of 
smoking.

Fenelon A(1).

Author information:
(1)Population Studies and Training Center, Brown University, 68 Waterman St., 
Providence, RI 02912, USA. andrew_fenelon@brown.edu

More than three decades of health disparities research in the United States has 
consistently found lower adult mortality risks among Hispanics than their 
non-Hispanic white counterparts, despite lower socioeconomic status among 
Hispanics. Explanations for the "Hispanic Paradox" include selective migration 
and cultural factors, though neither has received convincing support. This paper 
uses a large nationally representative survey of health and smoking behavior to 
examine whether smoking can explain life expectancy advantage of Hispanics over 
US-born non-Hispanics whites, with special attention to individuals of Mexican 
origin. It tests the selective migration hypothesis using data on smoking among 
Mexico-to-US migrants in Mexico and the United States. Both US-born and 
foreign-born Mexican-Americans exhibit a life expectancy advantage vis-à-vis 
whites. All other Hispanics only show a longevity advantage among the 
foreign-born, while those born in the United States are disadvantaged relative 
to whites. Smoking-attributable mortality explains the majority of the advantage 
for Mexican-Americans, with more than 60% of the gap deriving from lower rates 
of smoking among Mexican-Americans. There is no evidence of selective migration 
with respect to smoking; Mexicans who migrate to the US smoke at similar rates 
to Mexicans who remain in Mexico, with both groups smoking substantially less 
than non-Hispanic whites in the US. The results suggest that more research is 
needed to effectively explain the low burden of smoking among Mexican-Americans 
in the United States.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2012.12.028
PMCID: PMC3588600
PMID: 23453311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Apr;82:79-86. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.01.026. Epub
2013  Feb 5.

A mental model of factors associated with subjective life expectancy.

Griffin B(1), Loh V, Hesketh B.

Author information:
(1)Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia. Barbara.griffin@mq.edu.au

The objective was to develop and test a framework based on a biopsychosocial 
model that can be used to identify factors associated with subjective 
(self-estimated) life expectancy (SLE). SLE predicts important work and 
retirement decisions so a better understanding of the factors that contribute to 
an individual's thoughts about their likely age at death is essential for 
late-career and financial planning and for developing interventions aimed at 
addressing inappropriate estimates. This is a sub-study of the Australian 45 and 
Up Study cohort. Survey data were collected at two time points (3 years apart) 
from 2579 participants aged over 55 years. Correlations and regression analyses 
tested the relationship of SLE with biomedical/genetic factors (age, health 
diagnoses, parental longevity), socioeconomic factors (income, education) health 
behaviors (exercise, smoking, alcohol use, diet), and psychosocial factors 
(optimism, distress, social connectedness). Variables within each set of factors 
except the socioeconomic set were significantly related to SLE. Healthy 
lifestyle behaviors significantly moderated the effect of parental longevity. 
The findings indicate that individuals construct an understanding of their 
personal life expectancy based on similar factors that predict actual life 
expectancy, but not all mortality risk factors appear to be weighted 
realistically. The findings imply that, at least to some extent, SLE is not a 
stable construct and might be amenable to intervention.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.01.026
PMID: 23453320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. Ann Epidemiol. 2013 Apr;23(4):161-6. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2013.02.001.
Epub  2013 Mar 1.

The male-female health-survival paradox and sex differences in cohort life 
expectancy in Utah, Denmark, and Sweden 1850-1910.

Lindahl-Jacobsen R(1), Hanson HA, Oksuzyan A, Mineau GP, Christensen K, Smith 
KR.

