© 2013 The Authors. obesity reviews © 2013 International Association for the 
Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/obr.12029
PMID: 23601528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Curr Probl Surg. 2013 May;50(5):192-226. doi: 10.1067/j.cpsurg.2013.01.004.

Barrett esophagus: epidemiology, pathogenesis, diagnosis, and management.

Estores D, Velanovich V.

DOI: 10.1067/j.cpsurg.2013.01.004
PMID: 23601575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Res Vet Sci. 2013 Oct;95(2):326-33. doi: 10.1016/j.rvsc.2013.03.019. Epub
2013  Apr 18.

Ultrasonographic examination of the reticulum, rumen, omasum and abomasum during 
the first 100 days of life in calves.

Braun U(1), Krüger S, Hässig M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Farm Animals, University of Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse 260, 
CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland. ubraun@vetclinics.uzh.ch

The goal of this study was to examine the development of the reticulum, rumen, 
omasum and abomasum in six calves from birth to 100 days of age by means of six 
serial ultrasonographic examinations. The examinations were carried out in 
standing animals using a 5 MHz-transducer as described previously. The calves 
were primarily fed milk until examination 4 and then they were weaned. The 
reticulum was assessed for its shape and contractility, the rumen for its size 
and content, the omasum for its size, content and motility and the abomasum for 
its size and content before and after the ingestion of milk. The reticulum was 
seen in all calves starting at examination 2 and had biphasic and triphasic 
contractions; the latter were associated with eructation. The rumen was always 
imaged in all calves as early as Day 1 and its visible size increased 
progressively in all intercostal spaces (ICSs) during the study period. The 
omasum was best imaged in the 8th or 9th ICS; it was seen medial to the liver 
dorsally and usually medial to small intestines ventrally. Its visible size in 
these two ICSs increased progressively but omasal motility was not apparent. In 
newborn calves the abomasum was the largest compartment and dominated the 
abdominal cavity. It was visible from the 5th ICS to the flank. Except for 
examination 2, the mean visible abomasal length was significantly larger after 
feeding than before. Lateral abomasal extension to the left was greater than to 
the right at examinations 1-4, but was much smaller than to the right at 
examinations 5 and 6 because of progressive expansion of the rumen. Abomasal 
extension into the right hemiabdomen changed little during the study period.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rvsc.2013.03.019
PMID: 23602074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2013 Jun 18;61(24):2397-2405. doi: 
10.1016/j.jacc.2013.03.042. Epub 2013 Apr 17.

Cardiohepatic interactions in heart failure: an overview and clinical 
implications.

Samsky MD(1), Patel CB(2), DeWald TA(1), Smith AD(1), Felker GM(1), Rogers 
JG(1), Hernandez AF(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke Clinical Research Institute and the Department of Medicine, Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.
(2)Duke Clinical Research Institute and the Department of Medicine, Duke 
University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina. Electronic address: 
chetan.patel@duke.edu.

Heart failure (HF) is a major public health problem leading to frequent 
hospitalizations, impaired quality of life, and shortened life expectancy. Heart 
failure leads to a chronic inability to meet metabolic requirements of end 
organs or skeletal muscle. Current literature lacks comprehensive descriptions 
of HF effects on hepatic function. In this review paper, we summarize the 
literature that is available in hopes of highlighting the key differences in 
clinical presentation, histological findings, and biochemical profiles of 
patients who present with both acute and chronic liver injury secondary to HF. 
We further discuss the use of liver function tests as prognostic markers in 
patients with HF, as well as the implications of liver injury on drug metabolism 
in this patient population. Finally, we provide recommendations regarding the 
management of both types of liver injury in HF patients.

Copyright © 2013 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2013.03.042
PMID: 23603231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Neurosci Lett. 2013 Jun 7;544:157-62. doi: 10.1016/j.neulet.2013.04.005.
Epub  2013 Apr 19.

Action-perception coordination dynamics of whole-body rhythmic movement in 
stance: a comparison study of street dancers and non-dancers.

Miura A(1), Kudo K, Nakazawa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Komaba 3-8-1, Meguro, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan. 
akito.miura@gmail.com

This study investigated whether whole-body, rhythmic action-perception 
coordination in stance is organized in terms of dynamic principles. We observed 
whether phase transition and hysteresis occur during the execution of dancing 
movements. Nine skilled street dancers and 9 novice controls performed 2 types 
of rhythmic knee-bending movements to a metronome beat in the standing position. 
Participants performed down-on-the-beat (in which knee flexion coincides with 
the beat) and up-on-the-beat (in which knee extension coincides with the beat), 
which are both typical components of street dance. All participants were 
instructed not to intervene in the pattern change. The auditory stimulus beat 
rate increased or decreased between 60 and 220 beats per minute (bpm) in steps 
of 20 bpm. We calculated the phase angle of beat time that is superposed on knee 
movement trajectory on a phase plane. Under the up-on-the-beat condition, phase 
transition and hysteresis were observed. The bifurcation frequency at which 
phase transition occurred significantly differed between groups, indicating that 
dancers were able to perform up-on-the-beat at higher movement frequencies than 
non-dancers. This suggests that dynamical properties may differ between Dancers 
and Non-dancers. The present results provide additional evidence that whole-body 
action-perception pattern formation is governed by general and common dynamical 
principles.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neulet.2013.04.005
PMID: 23603261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Dev Biol. 2013 Jul 1;379(1):53-63. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2013.04.006. Epub
2013  Apr 18.

Coactosin accelerates cell dynamism by promoting actin polymerization.

Hou X(1), Katahira T, Ohashi K, Mizuno K, Sugiyama S, Nakamura H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Neurobiology, Graduate School of Life Sciences and 
Institute of Development, Aging & Cancer, Tohoku University, Japan.

During development, cells dynamically move or extend their processes, which are 
achieved by actin dynamics. In the present study, we paid attention to 
Coactosin, an actin binding protein, and studied its role in actin dynamics. 
Coactosin was associated with actin and Capping protein in neural crest cells 
and N1E-115 neuroblastoma cells. Accumulation of Coactosin to cellular processes 
and its association with actin filaments prompted us to reveal the effect of 
Coactosin on cell migration. Coactosin overexpression induced cellular processes 
in cultured neural crest cells. In contrast, knock-down of Coactosin resulted in 
disruption of actin polymerization and of neural crest cell migration. 
Importantly, Coactosin was recruited to lamellipodia and filopodia in response 
to Rac signaling, and mutated Coactosin that cannot bind to F-actin did not 
react to Rac signaling, nor support neural crest cell migration. It was also 
shown that deprivation of Rac signaling from neural crest cells by dominant 
negative Rac1 (DN-Rac1) interfered with neural crest cell migration, and that 
co-transfection of DN-Rac1 and Coactosin restored neural crest cell migration. 
From these results we have concluded that Coactosin functions downstream of Rac 
signaling and that it is involved in neurite extension and neural crest cell 
migration by actively participating in actin polymerization.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2013.04.006
PMID: 23603493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. J Hepatol. 2013 Aug;59(2):300-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.04.009. Epub 2013
Apr  18.

Cost-effectiveness of hepatic resection versus percutaneous radiofrequency 
ablation for early hepatocellular carcinoma.

Cucchetti A(1), Piscaglia F, Cescon M, Colecchia A, Ercolani G, Bolondi L, Pinna 
AD.

Author information:
(1)Liver and Multiorgan Transplant Unit, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, Alma Mater 
Studiorum - University of Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Both hepatic resection and radiofrequency ablation (RFA) are 
considered curative treatments for hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC), but their 
economic impact still remains not determined. Aim of the present study was to 
analyze the cost-effectiveness (CE) of these two strategies in early stage HCC 
(Milan criteria).
METHODS: As first step, a meta-analysis of the pertinent literature of the last 
decade was performed. Seventeen studies fulfilled the inclusion criteria: 3996 
patients underwent resection and 4424 underwent RFA for early HCC. Data obtained 
from the meta-analysis were used to construct a Markov model. Costs were 
assessed from the health care provider perspective. A Monte Carlo probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis was used to estimate outcomes with distribution samples of 
1000 patients for each treatment arm.
RESULTS: In a 10-year perspective, for very early HCC (single nodule <2 cm) in 
Child-Pugh class A patients, RFA provided similar life-expectancy and 
quality-adjusted life-expectancy at a lower cost than resection and was the most 
cost-effective therapeutic strategy. For single HCCs of 3-5 cm, resection 
provided better life-expectancy and was more cost-effective than RFA, at a 
willingness-to-pay above €4200 per quality-adjusted life-year. In the presence 
of two or three nodules ≤3 cm, life-expectancy and quality-adjusted 
life-expectancy were very similar between the two treatments, but 
cost-effectiveness was again in favour of RFA.
CONCLUSIONS: For very early HCC and in the presence of two or three nodules ≤3 
cm, RFA is more cost-effective than resection; for single larger early stage 
HCCs, surgical resection remains the best strategy to adopt as a result of 
better survival rates at an acceptable increase in cost.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.04.009
PMID: 23603669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Adv Biochem Eng Biotechnol. 2013;135:63-77. doi: 10.1007/10_2013_193.

The Fruit Fly Drosophila melanogaster as a Model for Aging Research.

Brandt A(1), Vilcinskas A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioresources, Fraunhofer Institute of Molecular Biology and 
Applied Ecology, Winchester Str. 2, 35395, Giessen, Germany.

: Average human life expectancy is increasing and so is the impact on society of 
aging and age-related diseases. Here we highlight recent advances in the diverse 
and multidisciplinary field of aging research, focusing on the fruit fly 
Drosophila melanogaster, an excellent model system in which to dissect the 
genetic and molecular basis of the aging processes. The conservation of human 
disease genes in D. melanogaster allows the functional analysis of orthologues 
implicated in human aging and age-related diseases. D. melanogaster models have 
been developed for a variety of age-related processes and disorders, including 
stem cell decline, Alzheimer's disease, and cardiovascular deterioration. 
Understanding the detailed molecular events involved in normal aging and 
age-related diseases could facilitate the development of strategies and 
treatments that reduce their impact, thus improving human health and increasing 
longevity.

DOI: 10.1007/10_2013_193
PMID: 23604209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Age (Omaha). 1997 Jan;20(1):45-56. doi: 10.1007/s11357-997-0004-2.

Beyond the rodent model: Calorie restriction in rhesus monkeys.

Lane MA, Ingram DK, Roth GS.

Lifespan extension and reduction of age-related disease by calorie restriction 
(CR) are among the most consistent findings in gerontological research. The well 
known effects of CR have been demonstrated many times in rodents and other 
short-lived species. However, effects of CR on aging in longer-lived species, 
more closely related to humans, were unknown until recently. Studies of CR and 
aging using nonhuman primates (rhesus monkeys) were begun several years ago at 
the National Institute on Aging, the University of Wisconsin-Madison, and the 
University of Maryland. These studies are beginning to yield useful data 
regarding the effects of this nutritional intervention in primates. Several 
studies from these ongoing investigations have shown that rhesus monkeys on CR 
exhibit physiological responses to CR that parallel findings in rodents. In 
addition, several potential biomarkers of aging are being evaluated and 
preliminary findings suggest the possibility that CR in rhesus monkeys could 
slow the rate of aging and reduce age-related disease, specifically diabetes and 
cardiovascular disease. It will be several years before conclusive proof that CR 
slows aging and extends life span in primates is established, however, results 
from these exciting studies suggest the possibility that the anti-aging effects 
of CR reported in rodents also occur in longer-lived species such as nonhuman 
primates, strenghtening the possibility that this nutritional intervention will 
also prove beneficial in longer-lived species, including humans.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-997-0004-2
PMCID: PMC3456082
PMID: 23604290


838. J Am Aging Assoc. 2000 Jan;23(1):9-16. doi: 10.1007/s11357-000-0002-0.

Studies of aging in ames dwarf mice: Effects of caloric restriction.

Mattison JA(1), Wright C, Bronson RT, Roth GS, Ingram DK, Bartke A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University, Carbondale, IL.

Ames dwarf mice, which are small and deficient in growth homone (GH), prolactin 
(PRL), and thyroid stimulating hormone (TSH) live much longer (1-1.25 years) 
than their normal siblings. It was of interest to examine the response of these 
animals to caloric restriction (CR) because of the possibility that dwarf mice 
are voluntarily caloric restricted. We are testing the hypothesis that this 
possible natural caloric restriction will negate any benefits of an imposed CR 
on lifespan. Male and female Ames dwarf mice and their normal counterparts have 
been fed ad libitum (AL) or a 30% CR diet for 25-29 months. Animals were 
monitored daily and weighed weekly. At 12-15 months of age, CR mice weighed 
significantly less than their AL fed counterparts (normal females: -42%, normal 
males: -23%, dwarf females: -18.8%, and dwarf males: -22.2%). Only in dwarf 
females has this significant difference disappeared with age. At one year of 
age, a comparison of daily food consumption revealed that female dwarf mice 
consume significantly more food per gram body weight than normal females and a 
similar tendency is evident for males. Although they received 30% less food, CR 
mice ate the same amount as AL mice per gram body weight. On measures of total 
locomotor activity, CR mice were significantly more active than their AL-fed 
counterparts. On an inhibitory avoidance learning task, 18-21 month old dwarf 
mice exhibited significantly better retention than their age-and diet-matched 
normal counterparts. Histopathological analysis in aging dwarf versus normal 
mice suggested that the incidence of tumors does not differ between the two 
groups but tumors appear to develop later in dwarf than in normal mice. After 
2.25 years on the study 27% of AL normals, 52% of CR normals, 74% of AL dwarfs, 
and 87% of CR dwarfs are still alive. We conclude that Ames dwarfs are not CR 
mimetics although they share many characteristics. It remains to be determined 
whether CR will delay aging and cause a further life extension in Ames dwarf 
mice.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-000-0002-0
PMCID: PMC3455356
PMID: 23604794


839. J Am Aging Assoc. 2000 Jan;23(1):25-31. doi: 10.1007/s11357-000-0004-y.

Antioxidant supplements: Effects on disease and aging in the United States 
population.

Harman D(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Nebraska College of Medicine, Omaha, 
Nebraska 68198-4635 ; 984635 Nebraska Medical Center, Omaha, Nebraska 
68198-4635.

Ingestion of antioxidant supplements by the United States (US) population has 
increased steadily since the mid-1950's. This review tried to determine if the 
supplements have contributed significantly to beneficial changes in the US 
during this period. Experimental animal studies have demonstrated that 
anti-oxidant supplements lower the incidence of a wide variety of diseases and 
increase life span. Anti-oxidants are associated with similar changes in man. 
Changes since the mid-1950's in the US population include: 1) ingestion of 
antioxidant supplements has increased from one percent, or less, to 40-50 
percent today. Cost: now 4-5 billion dollars per year, 2) disproportionate 
increases in the percentage of older individuals as average life expectancy at 
birth (ALE-B) rose, 3) declining chronic disability in the elderly since 1982, 
4) declining cancer mortality since 1991, and 5) the decline in the rate of 
reported cardiovascular disease beginning in the 1950's which significantly 
increased further in 1965. The last four changes suggest that the rate of 
increase in physiological age with time has been slowed. This can be attributed 
to decreases in the rate of accumulation of free radical-induced aging changes 
by the joint action of antioxidant supplements/dietary measures, and 
improvements in conventional measures (CM) which increase ALE-B, e.g., better 
medical care, nutrition, housing, accident prevention. The contribution by 
antioxidants to decreases in physiological age is seemingly small compared to 
that of CM. However, it will grow relative to CM as the amount and duration of 
supplement use increases and improvements in CM raise ALE-B closer to 85 years, 
the age associated with optimal living conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-000-0004-y
PMCID: PMC3455359
PMID: 23604796


840. J Am Aging Assoc. 2000 Oct;23(4):219-25. doi: 10.1007/s11357-000-0021-x.

Growth hormone and aging.

Bartke A(1), Brown-Borg H, Kinney B, Mattison J, Wright C, Hauck S, Coschigano 
K, Kopchick J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Southern Illinois University, School of Medicine, 
Carbondale, IL 62901-6512.

The potential usefulness of growth hormone (GH) as an anti-aging therapy is of 
considerable current interest. Secretion of GH normally declines during aging 
and administration of GH can reverse age-related changes in body composition. 
However, mutant dwarf mice with congenital GH deficiency and GH resistant 
GH-R-KO mice live much longer than their normal siblings, while a pathological 
elevation of GH levels reduces life expectancy in both mice and men. We propose 
that the actions of GH on growth, development, and adult body size may serve as 
important determinants of aging and life span, while the age-related decline in 
GH levels contributes to some of the symptoms of aging.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-000-0021-x
PMCID: PMC3455269
PMID: 23604867841. J Am Aging Assoc. 2001 Apr;24(2):59-62. doi: 10.1007/s11357-001-0008-2.

Retrospective analysis of the effects of low-dose, high frequency human growth 
hormone on serum lipids and prostate specific antigen.

Chein E(1), Gonzalez MJ, Riordan NH.

Author information:
(1)Palm Springs Life Extension Institute, 2815 Tahquitz Cyn. Blvd. Bldg. A, Palm 
Springs, CA 92262.

Background. Elevated serum total cholesterol (TC) and triglycerides (TG) are 
risk factors for atherosclerosis and ischemic heart disease. Adult growth 
hormone deficiency (AGHD) is associated with elevated TC and TG. Many treatment 
protocols for AGHD use relatively high doses of growth hormone (GH) given at low 
frequency, which is associated with increased incidences of edema, joint pains, 
and carpal tunnel syndrome. We have treated > 2200 patients using a low-dose 
high frequency (LDHF) dosing regimen of GH which results in similar beneficial 
subjective responses, and fewer of the side-effects associated with the 
higher-dosage treatment at a substantial cost savings. Clinically, in addition 
to increased insulin-like growth factor I (IGF-I), we observed lower TG and TC 
levels and no elevation of prostate specific antigen levels in treated patients. 
Methods. A retrospective analysis of IGF-I, TG, TC, and PSA data from our 
patient population was performed to test our hypothesis that positive objective 
responses of IGF-I, TG, and TC occur and that elevation of PSA does not occur in 
response to LDHF dosing regimen of GH. The mean duration of treatment of the 
analyzed data ranged from 181 to 259 days. Results. The mean plasma IGF-I level 
rose significantly (p<.00001) to a level 37% greater than baseline with 
treatment. TC and TG decreased significantly (p<.001) in those patients with 
elevated baseline values, and did not change significantly in those with normal 
baseline values. PSA concentrations decreased non-significantly during 
treatment, and few cases of edema, joint pain, or carpal tunnel were reported. 
Conclusions. Treatment of AGHD using the LDHF dosing regimen of GH resulted in 
significant increases in IGF-I, significant reductions in TC and TG levels in 
patients with elevated baseline values, no increase in PSA concentrations, and 
fewer side effects than other dosing regimens.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-001-0008-2
PMCID: PMC3455225
PMID: 23604876


842. J Am Aging Assoc. 2001 Oct;24(4):179-86. doi: 10.1007/s11357-001-0019-z.

Life span extensions associated with upregulation of gene expression of 
antioxidant enzymes in Caenorhabdms elegans; studies of mutation in the AGE-1, 
PI3 kinase homologue and short-term exposure to hyperoxia.

Honda Y(1), Honda S.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, 35-2, Sakaecho, Itabashiku, 
Tokyo, 173-0015 Japan.

Life span could be modified by genetic or environmental perturbations in 
Caenorhabditis elegans. Here we show that two extensions of life span are 
associated with oxidative stress resistance and upregulation of the gene 
expression of antioxidant enzymes. First, mutations in age-1 gene (PI3 kinase 
homologue) that confer life span extension, display oxidative stress resistance 
and increase in the gene expression of sod-3, one of two Mn-superoxide 
dismutases (SOD) and ctl-1, cytosolic catalase. In this study, these traits 
appear to be regulated by the following genetic pathway: daf-2 (insulin receptor 
family)-> daf-18 (PTEN homologue)-> age-1-> daf-16 (Fork head transcription 
factor family), similar to the genetic pathway for the life span extension. 
Second, we show that short-term exposure to hyperoxia extends life span slightly 
but significantly. This treatment increases oxidative stress resistance and the 
gene expression of three types of SOD isoforms. These results suggest that both 
of these two life span extensions are closely related with increase in the 
antioxidant defense function.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-001-0019-z
PMCID: PMC3455294
PMID: 23604883


843. J Am Aging Assoc. 2002 Jan;25(1):21-8. doi: 10.1007/s11357-002-0003-2.

Life span extensions associated with upregulation of gene expression of 
antioxidant enzymes in Caenorhabditis elegans; studies of mutation in the age-1, 
PI3 kinase homologue and short-term exposure to hyperoxia.

Honda Y(1), Honda S.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, 35-2 Sakaecho, Itabashiku, 
Tokyo, 173-0015 Japan.

Life span could be modified by genetic or environmental perturbations in 
Caenorhabditis elegans. Here we show that two extensions of life span are 
associated with oxidative stress resistance and upregulation of the gene 
expression of antioxidant enzymes. First, mutations in age-1 gene (PI3 kinase 
homologue)that confer life span extension, display oxidative stress resistance 
and increase in the gene expression of sod-3, one of two Mn-superoxide 
dismutases (SOD) and ctl-1, cytosolic catalase. In this study, these traits 
appear to be regulated by the following genetic pathway: daf-2 (insulin receptor 
family)-> daf-18 (PTEN homologue)-> age-1-> daf-16 (Fork head transcription 
factor family), similar to the genetic pathway for the life span extension. 
Second, we show that short-term exposure to hyperoxia extends life span slightly 
but significantly. This treatment increases oxidative stress resistance and the 
gene expression of three types of SOD isoforms. These results suggest that both 
of these two life span extensions are closely related with increase in the 
antioxidant defense function.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-002-0003-2
PMCID: PMC3455290
PMID: 23604887


844. J Am Aging Assoc. 2002 Jul;25(3):119-22. doi: 10.1007/s11357-002-0010-3.

Long-lived Ames dwarf mice: Oxidative damage to mitochondrial DNA in heart and 
brain.

Sanz A(1), Bartke A, Barja G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Biology-II (Animal Physiology), Faculty of Biology, 
Complutense University, Madrid, 28040 Spain.

The single gene mutation of Ames dwarf mice increases their maximum longevity by 
around 40% but the mechanism(s) responsible for this effect remain to be 
identified. This animal model thus offers a unique possibility of testing the 
mitochondrial theory of aging. In this investigation, oxidative damage to 
mitochondrial DNA (mtDNA) was measured for the first time in dwarf and wild type 
mice of both sexes. In the brain, 8-oxo,7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG) 
in mtDNA was significantly lower in dwarfs than in their controls both in males 
(by 32%) and in females (by 36%). The heart of male dwarfs also showed 
significantly lower mtDNA 8-oxodG levels (30% decrease) than the heart of male 
wild type mice, whereas no differences were found in the heart of females. The 
results, taken together, indicate that the single gene mutation of Ames dwarfs 
lowers oxidative damage to mtDNA especially in the brain, an organ of utmost 
relevance for aging. Together with the previous evidence for relatively lower 
level of oxidative damage to mtDNA in both long-lived and caloric restricted 
animals, these findings suggest that lowering of oxidative damage to mtDNA is a 
common mechanism of life extension in these three different mammalian models.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-002-0010-3
PMCID: PMC3455243
PMID: 23604907


845. J Am Aging Assoc. 2003 Jan;26(1-2):29-35. doi: 10.1007/s11357-003-0004-9.

Influence of diagnostic categories, age, and gender on antioxidative defense and 
lipid peroxidation in skeletal muscle of patients with neuromuscular diseases.

Stuerenburg HJ(1), Stangneth B, Kohlschütter A, Finckh B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.

The influence of diagnostic categories, age, and gender on parameters of 
oxidative stress measured in 102 patients with neuromuscular diseases and 11 
control subjects was assessed using a stepwise multiple linear regression model. 
Antioxidative enzyme activities, lipophilic antioxidants, and lipid peroxidation 
were analyzed in muscle biopsies. Mitochondrial myopathies and amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis (ALS) are thought to be particularly susceptible to increased 
oxidative stress. In our study, mitochondrial myopathies emerged as a positive 
predictor of malondialdehyde (p < 0.05) and ALS as a negative predictor of 
alpha-tocopherol (p < 0.05). Although the primary atrophic process in ALS is not 
in muscle but in motoneurons, this finding could have therapeutic implications, 
as such patients might benefit from antioxidant supplementation. In our study 
age emerged as a negative predictor of the coenzyme Q10 concentration (p < 
0.003), whereas the percentage of reduced coenzyme Q10 remained unchanged. Age 
emerged as a positive predictor of the activities of catalase (p < 0.01) and 
superoxide dismutase (p < 0.002), probably reflecting an enzymatic upregulation 
that compensates for the loss of coenzyme Q10. The increased activities of 
catalase and superoxide dismutase in females compared to males indicate a higher 
antioxidative potential in female muscle. Whether this increase contributes to a 
higher life expectancy of women remains to be investigated.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-003-0004-9
PMCID: PMC3456818
PMID: 23604916


846. Diabetes Ther. 2013 Jun;4(1):13-26. doi: 10.1007/s13300-013-0020-4. Epub
2013  Apr 19.

Management of type 2 diabetes in older people.

Abdelhafiz AH(1), Sinclair AJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Elderly Medicine, Rotherham General Hospital, Moorgate Road, 
Rotherham, S60 2UD, UK, ahmedhafiz@hotmail.com.

The prevalence of diabetes is increasing due to aging of the population and 
increasing obesity. In the developed world, there is an epidemiologic shift from 
diabetes being a disease of middle age to being a disease of older people due to 
increased life expectancy. In old age, diabetes is associated with high 
comorbidity burden and increased prevalence of geriatric syndromes in addition 
to the traditional vascular complications. Therefore, comprehensive geriatric 
assessment should be performed on initial diagnosis of diabetes. Due to the 
heterogeneous nature of older people with diabetes and variations in their 
functional status, comorbidities, and life expectancy, therapeutic 
interventions, and glycemic targets should be individualized taking into 
consideration patients' preferences and putting quality of life at the heart of 
their care plans.

DOI: 10.1007/s13300-013-0020-4
PMCID: PMC3687094
PMID: 23605454


847. Qual Life Res. 2013 Dec;22(10):2963-71. doi: 10.1007/s11136-013-0415-8. Epub
 2013 Apr 21.

A comparison of directly elicited and pre-scored preference-based measures of 
quality of life: the case of adhesive capsulitis.

Harris AH(1), Youd J, Buchbinder R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Melbourne, VIC, Australia, 
anthony.harris@monash.edu.

PURPOSE: To assess the convergent validity and comparative responsiveness in 
measuring the health-related quality of life associated with adhesive capsulitis 
of a disease-specific measure (Shoulder Pain and Disability Index), a generic 
quality of life measure (SF-36), a preference-based multi-attribute utility 
scale (assessment of quality of life), and two direct patient preference 
elicitation methods (willingness to pay and time trade-off).
METHOD: Instruments administered to all 156 participants in both arms of a 
randomized placebo-controlled trial of physiotherapy following arthrographic 
joint distension at baseline were reported at 6, 12, and 26 weeks. Convergent 
validity was measured using both pooled correlation between instruments and 
within subjects over time. Responsiveness was measured using the effect size for 
those with no improvement, moderate improvement, and marked improvement.
RESULTS: With the exception of the monetary measure, all of the instruments 
showed a low quality of life at baseline with adhesive capsulitis (66- 87 % of 
perfect health) and a substantial improvement in quality of life to week 26 on 
recovery. The time trade-off and willingness to pay measures of patient 
preferences were not responsive to changes in health, but all of the other 
instruments were at least moderately sensitive to change and moderately 
correlated with one another.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings verify the significant adverse impact of adhesive 
capsulitis upon quality of life found in larger studies. There was a fair degree 
of convergence, as measured by the correlation between the instruments but while 
the time trade-off mean values were quite plausible, at a mean of 87 % of full 
health before treatment, there was a low correlation with health profile and 
disease-specific measures. It may be that the time trade-off measured wider 
aspects of quality of life and that individuals were not prepared to trade 
survival for potential gains in a self-limiting condition.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-013-0415-8
PMID: 23605845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. Am J Hematol. 2013 Jul;88(7):581-8. doi: 10.1002/ajh.23458. Epub 2013 May
30.

Optimal timing of allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation in patients 
with myelodysplastic syndrome.

Alessandrino EP(1), Porta MG, Malcovati L, Jackson CH, Pascutto C, Bacigalupo A, 
Teresa van Lint M, Falda M, Bernardi M, Onida F, Guidi S, Iori AP, Cerretti R, 
Marenco P, Pioltelli P, Angelucci E, Oneto R, Ripamonti F, Rambaldi A, Bosi A, 
Cazzola M; Gruppo Italiano Trapianto di Midollo Osseo (GITMO).

Collaborators: Levis A, Rambaldi A, Bandini G, Casini M, Rossi G, Angelucci E, 
Baronciani D, La Nasa G, Milone G, Mordini N, Guidi S, Bosi A, Bacigalupo A, Van 
Lint MT, Corradini P, Milani R, Morra E, Marenco P, Lambertenghi Deliliers G, 
Onida F, Ciceri F, Bernardi M, Castagna L, Narni F, Pioltelli P, Selleri C, 
Scime R, Iannitto E, Musso M, Alessandrino EP, Locatelli F, Zecca M, Martelli F, 
Visani G, Di Bartolomeo P, Cavanna L, Papineschi F, Messina G, Merli F, Iori AP, 
Foa R, Locasciulli A, Majolino I, Chiusolo P, Leone G, Arcese W, Cerretti R, 
Carella AM, Cascavilla N, Mazza P, Falda M, Bruno B, Boccadoro M, Fanin R, Cerno 
M, Bortolo S, Raimondi R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology Oncology, Fondazione IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, 
Pavia, Italy; Department of Molecular Medicine, University of Pavia, Pavia, 
Italy.

Allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HSCT) represents the only 
curative treatment for patients with myelodysplastic syndrome (MDS), but 
involves non-negligible morbidity and mortality. Registry studies have shown 
that advanced disease stage at transplantation is associated with inferior 
overall survival. To define the optimal timing of allogeneic HSCT, we carried 
out a decision analysis by studying 660 patients who received best supportive 
care and 449 subjects who underwent transplantation. Risk assessment was based 
on both the International Prognostic Scoring System (IPSS) and the World Health 
Organization classification-based Prognostic Scoring System (WPSS). We used a 
continuous-time multistate Markov model to describe the natural history of 
disease and evaluate the effect of allogeneic HSCT on survival. This model 
estimated life expectancy from diagnosis according to treatment policy at 
different risk stages. Relative to supportive care, estimated life expectancy 
increased when transplantation was delayed from the initial stages until 
progression to intermediate-1 IPSS-risk or to intermediate WPSS-risk stage, and 
then decreased for higher risks. Modeling decision analysis on WPSS versus IPSS 
allowed better estimation of the optimal timing of transplantation. These 
observations indicate that allogeneic HSCT offers optimal survival benefits when 
the procedure is performed before MDS patients progress to advanced disease 
stages.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.23458
PMCID: PMC3736162
PMID: 23606215 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


849. Hum Mutat. 2013 Aug;34(8):1111-8. doi: 10.1002/humu.22342. Epub 2013 Jun 12.

ANO5 gene analysis in a large cohort of patients with anoctaminopathy: 
confirmation of male prevalence and high occurrence of the common exon 5 gene 
mutation.

Sarkozy A(1), Hicks D, Hudson J, Laval SH, Barresi R, Hilton-Jones D, Deschauer 
M, Harris E, Rufibach L, Hwang E, Bashir R, Walter MC, Krause S, van den Bergh 
P, Illa I, Pénisson-Besnier I, De Waele L, Turnbull D, Guglieri M, Schrank B, 
Schoser B, Seeger J, Schreiber H, Gläser D, Eagle M, Bailey G, Walters R, 
Longman C, Norwood F, Winer J, Muntoni F, Hanna M, Roberts M, Bindoff LA, 
Brierley C, Cooper RG, Cottrell DA, Davies NP, Gibson A, Gorman GS, Hammans S, 
Jackson AP, Khan A, Lane R, McConville J, McEntagart M, Al-Memar A, Nixon J, 
Panicker J, Parton M, Petty R, Price CJ, Rakowicz W, Ray P, Schapira AH, 
Swingler R, Turner C, Wagner KR, Maddison P, Shaw PJ, Straub V, Bushby K, 
Lochmüller H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Genetic Medicine, International Centre for Life, Newcastle upon 
Tyne, UK.

Limb girdle muscular dystrophy type 2L or anoctaminopathy is a condition mainly 
characterized by adult onset proximal lower limb muscular weakness and raised CK 
values, due to recessive ANO5 gene mutations. An exon 5 founder mutation 
(c.191dupA) has been identified in most of the British and German LGMD2L 
patients so far reported. We aimed to further investigate the prevalence and 
spectrum of ANO5 gene mutations and related clinical phenotypes, by screening 
205 undiagnosed patients referred to our molecular service with a clinical 
suspicion of anoctaminopathy. A total of 42 unrelated patients had two ANO5 
mutations (21%), whereas 14 carried a single change. We identified 34 pathogenic 
changes, 15 of which are novel. The c.191dupA mutation represents 61% of mutated 
alleles and appears to be less prevalent in non-Northern European populations. 
Retrospective clinical analysis corroborates the prevalently proximal lower limb 
phenotype, the male predominance and absence of major cardiac or respiratory 
involvement. Identification of cases with isolated hyperCKaemia and very late 
symptomatic male and female subjects confirms the extension of the phenotypic 
spectrum of the disease. Anoctaminopathy appears to be one of the most common 
adult muscular dystrophies in Northern Europe, with a prevalence of about 
20%-25% in unselected undiagnosed cases.

© 2013 WILEY PERIODICALS, INC.

DOI: 10.1002/humu.22342
PMID: 23606453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


850. Ann Pharmacother. 2013 May;47(5):671-85. doi: 10.1345/aph.1R411. Epub 2013
Apr  19.

Review of economics and cost-effectiveness analyses of anticoagulant therapy for 
stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation in the US.

von Schéele B(1), Fernandez M, Hogue SL, Kwong WJ.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Lund, Sweden. bscheele@rti.org

OBJECTIVE: To summarize the available evidence on the issues in health economics 
related to oral anticoagulation for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation 
(AF) in the US.
DATA SOURCES: A literature review was performed using PubMed, EMBASE, Cochrane 
Library, and International Pharmaceutical Abstracts, as well as the websites of 
professional organizations.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: The search was conducted according to a 
prespecified protocol, limiting articles to those published in English from 2001 
to October 2012 and focused on the economics associated with AF and AF-related 
stroke in the US. Data from 27 studies were extracted and included in the 
review.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Strokes in patients with AF are more debilitating and have 
higher recurrence rates and mortality compared with strokes unrelated to AF. 
However, data describing the long-term cost of AF-related stroke and stroke 
subtypes remain limited. The costs of major gastrointestinal (GI) bleeding and 
intracranial bleeding related to warfarin are significant, whereas the costs of 
the more frequent minor GI bleeding are relatively low. Overall, the 
cost-effectiveness of warfarin versus aspirin or no treatment in patients with 
at least 1 risk factor for stroke is well established. Economic evaluations 
based on results from randomized controlled clinical trials generally found that 
new anticoagulants were a cost-effective alternative to warfarin for stroke 
prevention in AF. However, these cost-effectiveness results are highly sensitive 
to how well optimal international normalized ratio control is maintained (within 
target of 2.0-3.0) for warfarin and the time horizon used for analysis. Time in 
therapeutic range for warfarin in routine clinical practice was lower than in 
clinical trials, as shown by previous studies.
CONCLUSIONS: This review identified several areas of uncertainty regarding the 
economic benefit of anticoagulants. The generalizability of cost-effectiveness 
results of anticoagulant therapy in AF based on clinical trial data must be 
confirmed by comparative effectiveness research conducted in the real-world 
setting.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1R411
PMID: 23606551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. J Econ Behav Organ. 2009 Oct 1;72(1):451-462. doi:
10.1016/j.jebo.2008.10.014.

MARKET EVIDENCE OF MISPERCEIVED MORTALITY RISK.

Bhattacharya J(1), Goldman D, Sood N.

Author information:
(1)Stanford University and NBER.

We construct and implement a test of rational consumer behavior in a high-stakes 
financial market. In particular, we test whether consumers make systematic 
mistakes in perceiving their mortality risks. We implement this test using data 
from secondary life insurance markets where consumers with a life-threatening 
illness sell their life insurance policies to firms in return for an up-front 
payment. We compare predictions from two models: one with consumers who 
correctly perceive their mortality risk, and one with consumers who are 
misguided about their life expectancy, and find that our data are most 
consistent with the predictions made by the second model.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jebo.2008.10.014
PMCID: PMC3630078
PMID: 23606779


852. Health Policy. 2013 Jun;111(1):99-104. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2013.03.019.
 Epub 2013 Apr 19.

Disability weights in the Global Burden of Disease 2010: unclear meaning and 
overstatement of international agreement.

Nord E(1).

Author information:
(1)The Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Norway; The University of Oslo, 
Norway. erik.nord@fhi.no

The Global Burden of Disease Project (GBD) is a huge international enterprise 
that provides vast amounts of valuable data on (a) the prevalence of different 
diseases in the world as a whole, in regions and in individual countries, (b) 
their causes (risk factors), and (c) their burden on populations in terms of 
Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs). However, the methods used for disability 
weighting of life years are problematic. After a long history of changing 
concepts and methods the GBD in its 2010 version has landed on 'health' as a 
unidimensional construct to be used for weighing multi-dimensional non-fatal 
health problems against each other and against death. The unidimensional health 
construct does not have a clear meaning. It likely also leads to biases in 
assessments of conditions that in everyday language are associated with 'being 
ill' as opposed to conditions which are not associated with 'being ill' (states 
of physical disability and the state dead). Furthermore, the transformation of 
ordinal data from paired comparisons into disability weights with purported 
ratio scale properties is not validated nor explained in a way that allows 
judgements of face validity. There are also issues related to the way in which 
different health problems were described to respondents. Lastly, international 
agreement on disability weights is clearly overstated. Policy makers at national 
and international levels should understand the GBD 2010 methods properly and 
carefully consider their validity before deciding to implement the methods, or 
the disability weights estimated so far by means of them, in further projects 
and studies. Considerable local adjustments of the weights offered presently are 
a likely outcome of such methodological scrutiny.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2013.03.019
PMID: 23608637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Nat Rev Cardiol. 2013 Jun;10(6):338-54. doi: 10.1038/nrcardio.2013.60. Epub
2013  Apr 23.

Cost-effectiveness of heart failure therapies.

Rohde LE(1), Bertoldi EG, Goldraich L, Polanczyk CA.

Author information:
(1)Postgraduate Program in Cardiovascular Science, Universidade Federal do Rio 
Grande do Sul, National Institute for Health Technology Assessment (IATS), CNPq, 
Av. Bento Gonçalves 9500, Porto Alegre, RS, Brazil.

Heart failure (HF) is a leading cause of morbidity and mortality worldwide. 
Management of HF involves accurate diagnosis and implementation of 
evidence-based treatment strategies. Costs related to the care of patients with 
HF have increased substantially over the past 2 decades, partly owing to new 
medications and diagnostic tests, increased rates of hospitalization, 
implantation of costly novel devices and, as the disease progresses, 
consideration for heart transplantation, mechanical circulatory support, and 
end-of-life care. Not surprisingly, HF places a huge burden on health-care 
systems, and widespread implementation of all potentially beneficial therapies 
for HF could prove unrealistic for many, if not all, nations. Cost-effectiveness 
analyses can help to quantify the relationship between clinical outcomes and the 
economic implications of available therapies. This Review is a critical overview 
of cost-effectiveness studies on key areas of HF management, involving 
pharmacological and nonpharmacological clinical therapies, including 
device-based and surgical therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/nrcardio.2013.60
PMID: 23609174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. J Bronchology Interv Pulmonol. 2013 Apr;20(2):134-9. doi: 
10.1097/LBR.0b013e3182917280.

Changes in quality of life, dyspnea scores, and lung function in lung cancer 
patients with airway obstruction after a therapeutic bronchoscopy.

Neumann K(1), Sundset A, Espinoza A, Kongerud J, Fosse E.

Author information:
(1)The Intervention Centre Department of Respiratory Medicine, Oslo University 
Hospital, Oslo, Norway. kirill.neumann@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Quality of life (QoL) has been closely linked with symptom intensity 
in lung cancer patients. It is therefore important to relieve respiratory 
distress in these severely ill patients, especially because their short life 
expectancy. This prospective study aimed to evaluate the impact of a therapeutic 
bronchoscopy on QoL, dyspnea, and lung function in patients with malignant 
airway obstruction.
METHODS: Fifteen cancer patients with airway obstruction were enrolled in the 
study. All patients were followed up during 2 months by 4 assessments that 
consisted of a clinical examination, QoL assessment using European Organisation 
for Research and Treatment of Cancer QLQ-C30 questionnaire with LC-13 module, 
Borg Dyspnea Scale, and lung function tests.
RESULTS: The study showed that therapeutic bronchoscopy had a rather persistent 
effect on QoL and dyspnea, which were sustained for at least 2 months after the 
procedure. The study population had also a significant improvement in lung 
function.
CONCLUSION: Therapeutic bronchoscopy has a positive impact on QoL, dyspnea scale 
values, and lung function in patients with advanced lung cancer and airway 
obstruction.

DOI: 10.1097/LBR.0b013e3182917280
PMID: 23609247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Am J Mens Health. 2013 Jul;7(4 Suppl):58S-67S. doi:
10.1177/1557988313484960.  Epub 2013 Apr 21.

The effects of race, ethnicity, and mood/anxiety disorders on the chronic 
physical health conditions of men from a national sample.

Johnson-Lawrence V(1), Griffith DM, Watkins DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Health Sciences, University of 
Michigan-Flint, Flint, MI 48502, USA. vickij@umich.edu

Racial/ethnic differences in health are evident among men. Previous work 
suggests associations between mental and physical health but few studies have 
examined how mood/anxiety disorders and chronic physical health conditions 
covary by age, race, and ethnicity among men. Using data from 1,277 African 
American, 629 Caribbean Black, and 371 non-Hispanic White men from the National 
Survey of American Life, we examined associations between race/ethnicity and 
experiencing one or more chronic physical health conditions in logistic 
regression models stratified by age and 12-month mood/anxiety disorder status. 
Among men <45 years without mood/anxiety disorders, Caribbean Blacks had lower 
odds of chronic physical health conditions than Whites. Among men aged 45+ years 
with mood/anxiety disorders, African Americans had greater odds of chronic 
physical health conditions than Whites. Future studies should explore the 
underlying causes of such variation and how studying mental and chronic physical 
health problems together may help identify mechanisms that underlie racial 
disparities in life expectancy among men.

DOI: 10.1177/1557988313484960
PMCID: PMC3895415
PMID: 23609347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Emerg Radiol. 2013 Oct;20(5):443-51. doi: 10.1007/s10140-013-1128-6. Epub
2013  Apr 23.

Multidetector computed tomography findings of abdominal aortic aneurysm and its 
complications: a pictorial review.

Taheri MS(1), Haghighatkhah H, Pourghorban R, Hosseini A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Shohada-e-Tajrish Hospital, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, 1989934148, Tehran, Iran.

Abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs) are defined as abnormal dilatation of the 
abdominal aorta and are potential to catastrophic complications. With the advent 
of multidetector computed tomography (MDCT), this diagnostic modality has 
virtually replaced conventional angiography in many circumstances and has become 
an integral part of the evaluation of AAA. Its ability to assess the peri-aortic 
soft tissue and the exact extension of aneurysm as well as its excellent 
vascular opacification and multiplanar reconstruction make computed tomography 
angiography the best suited imaging modality for not only detecting AAA but also 
evaluating its various complications. In this pictorial essay, we intend to 
demonstrate the spectrum of MDCT findings in AAA and its various consequences 
including impending rupture, contained rupture, rupture, aorto-caval fistula, 
aorto-left renal vein fistula, aorto-enteric fistula, and infection. Familiarity 
with the characteristic imaging features of AAA is essential for clinical 
radiologists and also referring physicians for the prompt diagnosis of 
life-threatening complications.

DOI: 10.1007/s10140-013-1128-6
PMID: 23609615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Opt Express. 2013 Apr 22;21(8):10048-61. doi: 10.1364/OE.21.010048.

Focus-extension by depth-encoded synthetic aperture in Optical Coherence 
Tomography.

Mo J(1), de Groot M, de Boer JF.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Lasers, Life and Biophotonics Amsterdam, Department of Physics 
and Astronomy, VU University Amsterdam, De Boelelaan 1081, 1081 HV Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands.

We present a novel method to extend the depth-of-focus of Optical Coherence 
Tomography (OCT). OCT is an interferometric imaging technique that provides 
depth-resolved scattering information. The axial resolution in OCT is provided 
by the coherence gate and is invariant over the full image depth. The lateral 
resolution is determined by the beam parameters such as wavelength and numerical 
aperture. The Rayleigh range determines the depth range over which the lateral 
resolution can be maintained. The lateral resolution is often sacrificed to 
maintain relatively long Rayleigh range. In this study, we propose to use a 
depth-encoded synthetic aperture detection scheme to extend the depth range over 
which a sharp focus can be maintained beyond the Rayleigh range. An annular 
phase plate is inserted into the light path in the sample arm, which gives rise 
to three separate images in a single B-scan, corresponding to three different 
