DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0484-1
PMID: 23640368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. J Appl Physiol (1985). 2013 Jul 15;115(2):243-50. doi: 
10.1152/japplphysiol.00334.2013. Epub 2013 May 2.

Muscle metabolic determinants of exercise tolerance following exhaustion: 
relationship to the "critical power".

Chidnok W(1), Fulford J, Bailey SJ, Dimenna FJ, Skiba PF, Vanhatalo A, Jones AM.

Author information:
(1)Sport and Health Sciences, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, St. 
Luke's Campus, University of Exeter, Devon, United Kingdom.

We tested the hypothesis that muscle high-energy phosphate compounds and 
metabolites related to the fatigue process would be recovered after exhaustion 
during recovery exercise performed below but not above critical power (CP) and 
that these changes would influence the capacity to continue exercise. Eight male 
subjects completed single-leg, knee-extension exercise to exhaustion (for ∼180 
s) on three occasions, followed by a work-rate reduction to severe-intensity 
exercise, heavy-intensity exercise (<CP), or a 10-min passive recovery period, 
in random order. The muscle metabolic responses to exercise were assessed using 
(31)P magnetic resonance spectroscopy. There was a significant difference 
between the sustainable exercise duration during the recovery from exhaustive 
exercise between the <CP and >CP conditions (at least 10 min and 39 ± 31 s, 
respectively; P < 0.05). During passive recovery and <CP recovery exercise, 
muscle phosphocreatine concentration ([PCr]) increased rapidly after the 
exhaustion point, reaching ∼96% and ∼76% of baseline values, respectively, after 
10 min (P < 0.05). Moreover, pH increased abruptly, reaching 7.0 ± 0.0 and 7.0 ± 
0.2, respectively, after 10 min recovery (P < 0.05). However, during >CP 
recovery exercise, neither muscle [PCr] nor pH recovered, reaching ∼37% of the 
initial baseline and 6.6 ± 0.2, respectively. These results indicate that the 
muscle metabolic dynamics in recovery from exhaustive >CP differ according to 
whether the recovery exercise is performed below or above the CP. These findings 
confirm the importance of the CP as an intramuscular metabolic threshold that 
dictates the accumulation of fatigue-related metabolites and the capacity to 
tolerate high-intensity exercise.

DOI: 10.1152/japplphysiol.00334.2013
PMID: 23640601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Exp Appl Acarol. 2013 Sep;61(1):53-67. doi: 10.1007/s10493-013-9701-y. Epub
2013  May 3.

Prey preference and life tables of the predatory mite Parasitus bituberosus 
(Acari: Parasitidae) when offered various prey combinations.

Szafranek P(1), Lewandowski M, Kozak M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Entomology, Faculty of Horticulture, Biotechnology and 
Landscape Architecture, Warsaw University of Life Sciences-SGGW, Nowoursynowska 
159, 02-776 Warsaw, Poland.

Parasitus bituberosus Karg (Acari: Parasitidae) is one of the predatory mite 
species inhabiting mushroom houses. It is known to accept a wide range of prey, 
suggesting that it may be a promising candidate for the biological control of 
key pests of mushroom culture. In our study it did not show any prey preference 
among four groups of small organisms often occurring in mushroom growth medium, 
namely rhabditid nematodes, pygmephorid mites, and sciarid and phorid fly 
larvae. Nevertheless, the type of food these predators fed on affects their 
development. The shortest egg-to-adult development time was obtained on a 
nematode diet. On a diet of phorid larvae, mite development stopped at the 
deutonymph stage; none reached adulthood. All other diets sufficed to reach the 
adult phase. Female fecundity when fed nematodes and sciarid larvae did not 
differ, but it was much lower when fed pygmephorid mites. Other life table 
parameters confirmed that pygmephorid mites constituted the worst diet for P. 
bituberosus. The highest intrinsic rate of population increase (r m = 0.34) was 
obtained on the nematode diet; when fed sciarid larvae and pygmephorid mites it 
was 0.25 and 0.14, respectively. Our study provides good reasons to further test 
P. bituberosus as biocontrol agent of especially sciarid flies and nematodes, 
especially when the compost is well colonized by mushroom mycelium (which 
retards nematode growth).

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-013-9701-y
PMCID: PMC3742430
PMID: 23640712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 May 21;110(21):E1889-97. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1305358110. Epub 2013 May 2.

Dynamic gradients of an intermediate filament-like cytoskeleton are recruited by 
a polarity landmark during apical growth.

Fuchino K(1), Bagchi S, Cantlay S, Sandblad L, Wu D, Bergman J, Kamali-Moghaddam 
M, Flärdh K, Ausmees N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Lund University, 22362 Lund, Sweden.

Comment in
    Bioarchitecture. 2013 Jul-Aug;3(4):110-2.

Intermediate filament (IF)-like cytoskeleton emerges as a versatile tool for 
cellular organization in all kingdoms of life, underscoring the importance of 
mechanistically understanding its diverse manifestations. We showed previously 
that, in Streptomyces (a bacterium with a mycelial lifestyle similar to that of 
filamentous fungi, including extreme cell and growth polarity), the IF protein 
FilP confers rigidity to the hyphae by an unknown mechanism. Here, we provide a 
possible explanation for the IF-like function of FilP by demonstrating its 
ability to self-assemble into a cis-interconnected regular network in vitro and 
its localization into structures consistent with a cytoskeletal network in vivo. 
Furthermore, we reveal that a spatially restricted interaction between FilP and 
DivIVA, the main component of the Streptomyces polarisome complex, leads to 
formation of apical gradients of FilP in hyphae undergoing active tip extension. 
We propose that the coupling between the mechanism driving polar growth and the 
assembly of an IF cytoskeleton provides each new hypha with an additional 
stress-bearing structure at its tip, where the nascent cell wall is inevitably 
more flexible and compliant while it is being assembled and matured. Our data 
suggest that recruitment of cytoskeleton around a cell polarity landmark is a 
broadly conserved strategy in tip-growing cells.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1305358110
PMCID: PMC3666699
PMID: 23641002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


966. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2013 Dec;52(12):2108-15. doi: 
10.1093/rheumatology/ket160. Epub 2013 May 2.

Effect of gender on clinical presentation in systemic lupus erythematosus.

Murphy G(1), Isenberg D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, University College Hospital, 3rd Floor Central, 
250 Euston Road, London NW1 2PQ, UK. grainne927@yahoo.com.

The incidence of SLE is markedly increased in females of child-bearing age. 
Although males are protected in terms of incidence of disease, it is unclear 
whether a distinct phenotype of male lupus exists in those who do develop SLE. 
We sought to explore through a detailed literature review whether gender exerts 
an influence on the clinical presentation and outcome of SLE. We found that 
males experience less of the typical mucocutaneous and musculoskeletal symptoms 
commonly present at diagnosis in women. On the other hand, there is limited 
evidence to support a negative prognostic association between male gender and 
disease activity or mortality.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/ket160
PMID: 23641038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. N Engl J Med. 2013 May 2;368(18):1753-4. doi: 10.1056/NEJMc1302783.

Smoking-related mortality in the United States.

Schroeder S.

Comment on
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Jan 24;368(4):389-90.
    N Engl J Med. 2013 May 2;368(18):1752-3.
    N Engl J Med. 2013 May 2;368(18):1753.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMc1302783
PMID: 23641497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. B-ENT. 2013;9(1):61-6.

Necrotizing external otitis: a case series.

Soheilipour S(1), Meidani M, Derakhshandi H, Etemadifar M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology Head and Neck Surgery, School of Medicine, 
Isfahan University of Medical Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

OBJECTIVES: Necrotizing (malignant) external otitis (NEO) is a life-threatening 
progressive infection of the external auditory canal, mastoid, and skull base. 
Here, we review the clinical findings for a series of NEO patients.
METHODOLOGY: This case review study includes 18 patients with NEO (males: 11 
(61.11%), females: 7 (38.88%), with a mean age of 65.11 years (range: 40-79)), 
hospitalized at Al-Zahra hospital in Isfahan province, Iran, during 2007-2011.
RESULTS: The most common presentations were otalgia 18 (100%), otorrhea 15 
(83.33%), edema and erythema of the external ear canal 14 (77.77%), and hearing 
loss 11 (61.11%). We found osteomyelitis of the skull base that involved cranial 
nerves (most commonly the facial nerve) in 8 patients (44.44%), which seemed to 
be a higher incidence than reported in previous studies. Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
was found in ear specimen cultures in only 7 cases (38.88%), which could be 
attributed to inappropriate topical and oral use of antipseudomonal agents 
before proper diagnosis. Nine patients underwent surgical debridement. All cases 
responded to systemic antipseudomonal antibiotics with no mortality. However, 
recurrence occurred during the follow-up period in two cases; yet, the patients 
responded to retreatment.
CONCLUSION: The life expectancy is increasing for diabetic and immunocompromised 
patients; thus, it is necessary to identify those who have a high risk for NEO, 
especially older diabetic patients who complain of otalgia and otorrhea that are 
resistant to routine treatment. Immediate diagnosis and proper treatment is 
crucial to prevent complications and mortality.

PMID: 23641593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Annu Rev Nutr. 2013;33:373-93. doi: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071812-161133. Epub
 2013 Apr 29.

The role of cost-effectiveness analysis in developing nutrition policy.

Cobiac LJ(1), Veerman L, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, The University of Queensland, Herston, 
Queensland, 4006 Australia. l.cobiac@uq.edu.au

Concern about the overconsumption of unhealthy foods is growing worldwide. With 
high global rates of noncommunicable diseases related to poor nutrition and 
projections of more rapid increases of rates in low- and middle-income 
countries, it is vital to identify effective but low-cost interventions. 
Cost-effectiveness studies show that individually targeted dietary interventions 
can be effective and cost-effective, but a growing number of modeling studies 
suggest that population-wide approaches may bring larger and more sustained 
benefits for population health at a lower cost to society. Mandatory regulation 
of salt in processed foods, in particular, is highly recommended. Future 
research should focus on lacunae in the current evidence base: effectiveness of 
interventions addressing the marketing, availability, and price of healthy and 
unhealthy foods; modeling health impacts of complex dietary changes and 
multi-intervention strategies; and modeling health implications in diverse 
subpopulations to identify interventions that will most efficiently and 
effectively reduce health inequalities.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-nutr-071812-161133
PMID: 23642205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Ophthalmology. 2013 Sep;120(9):1835-42. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.02.002.
Epub  2013 May 1.

Cost-effectiveness of various interventions for newly diagnosed diabetic macular 
edema.

Stein JD(1), Newman-Casey PA, Kim DD, Nwanyanwu KH, Johnson MW, Hutton DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan 48105, USA. jdstein@med.umich.edu

OBJECTIVE: Anti-vascular endothelial growth factor therapies have revolutionized 
the treatment of clinically significant diabetic macular edema (CSDME); yet 
these agents are expensive, and whether they are cost-effective is unclear. The 
purpose of this study is to determine the most cost-effective treatment option 
for patients with newly diagnosed CSDME: focal laser photocoagulation alone (L), 
focal laser plus intravitreal ranibizumab (L+R), focal laser plus intravitreal 
bevacizumab (L+B), or focal laser plus intravitreal triamcinolone (L+T) 
injections.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohort of 57-year-old patients with newly diagnosed 
CSDME.
METHODS: By using a Markov model with a 25-year time horizon, we compared the 
incremental cost-effectiveness of treating patients with newly diagnosed CSDME 
using L, L+R, L+B, or L+T. Data came from the DRCRnet randomized controlled 
trial, the Medicare fee schedule, and the medical literature.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and 
incremental costs per QALY gained.
RESULTS: Compared with L, the incremental cost-effectiveness of L+R and L+B was 
$89903/QALY and $11138/QALY, respectively. L+T was dominated by L. A 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis demonstrated that, at a willingness to pay 
(WTP) of $50000/QALY, L was approximately 70% likely to be the preferred therapy 
over L+R and L+T. However, at a WTP of $100000/QALY, more than 90% of the time, 
L+R therapy was the preferred therapy compared with L and L+T. In the 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, L+B was found to be the preferred therapy 
over L and L+T for any WTP value >$10000/QALY. Sensitivity analyses revealed 
that the annual risk of cerebrovascular accident would have to be at least 1.5% 
higher with L+B than with L+R for L+R to be the preferred treatment. In another 
sensitivity analysis, if patients require <8 injections per year over the 
remainder of the 25-year time horizon, L+B would cost <$100000/QALY, whereas L+R 
would be cost-effective at a WTP of $100000/QALY if patients require fewer than 
0.45 injections per year after year 2.
CONCLUSIONS: With bevacizumab and ranibizumab assumed to have equivalent 
effectiveness and similar safety profiles when used in the management of CSDME, 
bevacizumab therapy confers the greatest value among the different treatment 
options for CSDME.
FINANCIAL DISCLOSURE(S): The author(s) have no proprietary or commercial 
interest in any materials discussed in this article.

Copyright © 2013 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.02.002
PMCID: PMC3737388
PMID: 23642372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. J Vasc Surg. 2013 Sep;58(3):589-95. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.03.010. Epub
2013  May 1.

Optimal selection of patients for elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair 
based on life expectancy.

De Martino RR(1), Goodney PP, Nolan BW, Robinson WP, Farber A, Patel VI, Stone 
DH, Cronewett JL; Vascular Study Group of New England.

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, NH 
03766, USA. randall.r.de.martino@hitchcock.org

OBJECTIVE: Elective abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair is beneficial when 
rupture is likely during a patient's expected lifetime. The purpose of this 
study was to identify predictors of long-term mortality after elective AAA 
repair for moderately sized AAAs (<6.5-cm diameter) to identify patients 
unlikely to benefit from surgery.
METHODS: We analyzed 2367 elective infrarenal AAA (<6.5 cm) repairs across 21 
centers in New England from 2003 to 2011. Our main outcome measure was 5-year 
life-table survival. Cox proportional hazards analysis was used to describe 
associations between patient characteristics and 5-year survival.
RESULTS: During the study period, 1653 endovascular AAA repairs and 714 open AAA 
repairs were performed. Overall, 5-year survival rates were similar by procedure 
type (75% endovascular repair, 80% open repair; P = .14). Advanced age ≥75 years 
(hazard ratio [HR], 2.0; P < .01) and age >80 years (HR, 2.6; P < .01), coronary 
artery disease (HR, 1.4; P < .04), unstable angina or recent myocardial 
infarction (HR, 4.6; P < .01), oxygen-dependent chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (HR, 2.7; P < .01), and estimated glomerular filtration rate <30 
mL/min/1.73 m(2) (HR, 2.8; P < .01) were associated with poor survival. Aspirin 
(HR, 0.8; P < .03) and statin (HR, 0.7; P < .01) use were associated with 
improved survival. We used these risk factors to develop risk strata for 
low-risk, medium-risk, and high-risk groups with survival, respectively, of 85%, 
69%, and 43% at 5 years (P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: More than 75% of patients with moderately sized AAAs who underwent 
elective repair in our region survived 5 years, but 4% were at high risk for 
5-year mortality. Patients with multiple risk factors, especially age >80 years, 
unstable angina, oxygen-dependent chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, and 
estimated glomerular filtration rate <30 mL/min/1.73 m(2), are unlikely to 
achieve sufficient long-term survival to benefit from surgery, unless their AAA 
rupture risk is very high.

Copyright © 2013 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.03.010
PMCID: PMC3930455
PMID: 23642927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author conflict of interest: none.


972. Cancer Epidemiol. 2013 Aug;37(4):353-9. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2013.03.015.
Epub  2013 Apr 30.

Burden of cancer in Korea during 2000-2020.

Park JH(1), Lee KS, Choi KS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine and Samsung Biomedical Research Institute, 
Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: This study estimates the burden of cancer in Korea during 2000-2020, 
ameliorating the Global Burden of Disease Study Group (GBD) method with the 
Incidence-Prevalence-Mortality (IPM) Model.
METHODS: Besides using the GBD approach to calculate the Years of Life Lost in 
Korea during 2000-2020, this research calculates the Years Lived with Disability 
(YLDs) of major cancers based on the combination of the GBD method and the IPM 
Model.
RESULTS: Colon, breast and thyroid cancers became more significant in terms of 
Disability Adjusted Life Years during 2000-2010 and this will continue during 
2010-2020, colon cancer leading the pack instead of stomach cancer in 2020. The 
rise of colon cancer is more evident for the older age group and the opposite is 
true for breast and thyroid cancers. Indeed, stomach and liver cancers were 
resilient in terms of DALYs during 2000-2010 and this will continue during 
2010-2020. Overall, the burden of cancer in Korea is characterized by an 
increasing centrality of YLDs (chronic components) as in other advanced nations.
CONCLUSIONS: Korea's convergence with other advanced nations in cancer burden 
might reflect their convergence in living standards, the age structure, health 
behavior and medical technology during the past four decades. These transitions 
have been reflected in the Second 10-Year Plan for Cancer Control in Korea 
during 2006-2015, government policy consisting of four main programs, i.e., 
primary prevention, early detection, diagnosis/treatment and palliative care.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2013.03.015
PMID: 23643195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Food Chem Toxicol. 2013 Aug;58:255-63. doi: 10.1016/j.fct.2013.04.046. Epub
2013  May 1.

Vitamin C and lifespan in model organisms.

Pallauf K(1), Bendall JK, Scheiermann C, Watschinger K, Hoffmann J, Roeder T, 
Rimbach G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Human Nutrition and Food Science, Christian-Albrechts-University 
Kiel, Hermann-Rodewald-Straße 6-8, D-24118 Kiel, Germany. 
Pallauf@foodsci.uni-kiel.de

The process of ageing has been repeatedly associated with increasing oxidative 
damage which has led to the hypothesis that reducing oxidative stress through 
antioxidant dietary factors may prolong lifespan. Ascorbic acid is an essential 
antioxidant in human diets and is widely used for supplementation. However, it 
is rather unclear if and to what extent ascorbic acid may affect lifespan in 
humans and model organisms. In our review of literature on vitamin C 
supplementation and its effect on lifespan in different model organisms we found 
that some studies suggest an increase in lifespan, other studies failed to 
observe any beneficial effect of vitamin C on longevity and some studies even 
reported a decrease in lifespan following vitamin C supplementation. Of the 14 
studies included in our analysis, three were carried out in worms, four in flies 
and seven in rodents. The discrepancies between the studies may be related to 
species-specific differences, the concentration of vitamin C administered, the 
duration of supplementation and whether vitamin C was used alone or as part of a 
combined antioxidant diet. Potential underlying mechanisms through which vitamin 
C may influence lifespan and differences amongst species regarding the capacity 
to produce vitamin C endogenously are discussed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fct.2013.04.046
PMID: 23643700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Bull Cancer. 2013 May;100(5):435-41. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2013.1748.

[New advances in the management of thoracolumbar spine metastasis].

[Article in French]

Zairi F(1), Marinho P, Allaoui M, Assaker R.

Author information:
(1)CHRU de Lille, hôpital Roger-Salengro, service de neurochirurgie, rue 
Émile-Laine, 59037 Lille cedex, France. fahed.zairi@gmail.com

Vertebral metastases affect 20 to 50% of cancer patients and represent a major 
turning point in the disease from the functional impact they generate. Early 
treatment is mandatory to prevent or treat any neurological compression. Due to 
the high variability of clinical and radiological presentations, best care 
requires a multidisciplinary team, involving oncologists, radiation oncologists, 
interventional radiologists and spine surgeons. Recent advances in radiotherapy 
and interventional radiology have offered various efficient therapeutic 
solutions with relatively low morbidity rate in the management of symptomatic 
spine metastases. However, surgery remains the standard treatment for patients 
with rapidly progressive spinal cord compression or significant osteolytic 
lesion leading to a high risk of fracture. However, conventional surgical 
strategies are associated with significant morbidity and contraindicated in 
patients in poor general condition. In addition, postoperative complications are 
likely to affect patient's quality of life and delay the initiation of 
anticancer therapies. In order to reduce iatrogenic lesions, new "minimally 
invasive" techniques were developed to achieve immediate stabilisation and 
decompression while reducing the morbidity of the approach. We aim to inform the 
reader of the existence of these techniques so that each patient can benefit 
from treatment best suited to their situation.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2013.1748
PMID: 23644526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Implant Dent. 2013 Jun;22(3):224-31. doi: 10.1097/ID.0b013e31829261ed.

A six-year follow-up of full-arch immediate restorations fabricated with an 
intraoral welding technique.

Degidi M(1), Nardi D, Piattelli A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical, Oral, and Biotechnological Sciences, University of 
Chieti-Pescara, Chieti, Italy.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to evaluate the 6-year effectiveness of 
maxillary and mandibular full-arch immediately loaded prostheses fabricated 
using an intraoral welding technique.
METHODS: All patients received the same day of surgery a fixed, full-arch 
prosthesis supported by an intraorally welded titanium framework created 
directly in the patient's mouth using a titanium bar. Life table analysis of 
implant survival, complications, and any other adverse events were recorded at 
yearly follow-up for a period of 6 years.
RESULTS: One hundred twenty-four (86.11%) of 144 implants placed in maxillary 
cases and 87 (77.68%) of 112 implants placed in mandible cases completed the 
planned 6-year follow-up. At the 72-month follow-up, the accumulated mean 
marginal bone loss was, respectively, 1.39 mm (SD = 0.67) for the implants 
placed in the maxilla (n = 124) and 1.29 mm (SD = 0.71) for the implants placed 
in the mandible (n = 87). Fracturing of the composite resin superstructure was 
the most common adverse event.
CONCLUSIONS: After a 6-year follow-up period, the intraoral welding technique 
proved to be a predictable technique for successfully rehabilitating the fully 
edentulous patient with a fixed and immediate prosthesis.

DOI: 10.1097/ID.0b013e31829261ed
PMID: 23644910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Pathol Oncol Res. 2013 Jul;19(3):353-63. doi: 10.1007/s12253-013-9628-y.
Epub  2013 May 6.

An analysis of the epidemiological and etiological factors of oral tumors of 
young adults in a Central-Eastern European population.

Túri K(1), Barabás P, Csurgay K, Léhner GY, Lőrincz A, Németh ZS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oro-Maxillofacial Surgery and Stomatology, Faculty of 
Dentistry, Semmelweis University, Budapest, Mária Str. 52, 1085 Budapest, 
Hungary.

The etiology of tumors in young age is not precisely known yet, but studies on 
the topic generally agree that in this group of patients the traditionally known 
behavioural risk factors (tobacco and alcohol abuse) play no or a significantly 
less important role. Oral squamous cell carcinoma occurring at a young age is a 
topic of utmost importance that is extensively and intensively researched as, 
while the overall incidence of oral cancer is decreasing worldwide, that of 
squamous cell carcinoma diagnosed in young adults is steadily increasing. The 
present article aims at presenting the main questions and characteristics of 
tumors in young adults in Central-Eastern Europe and in developed West European 
countries as contrasted to tumors found in middle aged and elderly patients. 
Factors influencing the development of oral cancer include regulatory factors of 
the cell cycle, the inherited vulnerability of the genetic code of certain 
proteins and the presence of HPV infection with an oncogenic genotype. The 
connections of HPV infection and genetic damages are studied intensively. It is 
known that the prevalence of oral HPV infections is growing with a background of 
potentially changing sexual habits. It is debated, however, whether smoking and 
alcohol consumption could have a connection to HPV associated oral cancer and 
whether the spread of HPV in itself could be an explanation for the growing 
occurrence of young-age tumors. There is no consensus in the literature as to 
the prognostic significance of age. Some research groups have found a better 
life expectancy for young patients, while other authors found a worse prognosis 
for these patients. It is known that the prognosis of head and neck tumors, the 
prevalence of HPV infections as well as genetic mutations show regional and 
ethnic variations. This might be explained by differences in the degree of 
development of a preventive system, in the quality of care and in the attitudes 
of young patients towards visiting a doctor. The study is made difficult by 
incomparable patient selection criteria as well as by the question of the 
intraoral localisation of tumors as an independent risk factor.

DOI: 10.1007/s12253-013-9628-y
PMID: 23645516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Aug;31(8):693-702. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0060-7.

Understanding the cost-effectiveness of influenza vaccination in children: 
methodological choices and seasonal variability.

Newall AT(1), Dehollain JP, Creighton P, Beutels P, Wood JG.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 2052, Australia. 
a.newall@unsw.edu.au

BACKGROUND: The universal vaccination of children for influenza has recently 
been recommended in the UK and is being considered in other developed countries.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to explore the potential costs and 
benefits of childhood influenza vaccination to gain a better understanding of 
the key drivers of cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: As our case study we examined the cost-effectiveness of vaccination in 
Australian schoolchildren using an age-stratified Susceptible Exposed Infectious 
Recovered model.
RESULTS: The results of this study highlight the critical role that 
methodological choices play in determining the cost-effectiveness of influenza 
vaccination. These choices include decisions about the structure of the model 
(including/excluding herd immunity) and what costs and benefits to include in 
the analysis. In scenarios where herd protection was included we estimated that 
the program was likely to be cost-effective. The study also illustrates the 
importance of the inherent seasonal variability of influenza, which can produce 
counter-intuitive results, with low transmission seasons being easier to control 
by vaccination but resulting in fewer benefits.
CONCLUSIONS: Universal childhood influenza vaccination is likely to be 
cost-effective if a substantial herd protection effect can be achieved by the 
program. However, it is important that decision makers understand the role of 
seasonal variability and the impact of alternative methodological choices in 
economic evaluations of influenza vaccination.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0060-7
PMID: 23645539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. J Periodontol. 2014 Jan;85(1):132-9. doi: 10.1902/jop.2013.130118. Epub 2013
May  7.

Metastatic tumors to the gingiva and the presence of teeth as a contributing 
factor: a literature analysis.

Allon I(1), Pessing A, Kaplan I, Allon DM, Hirshberg A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Pathology and Oral Medicine, The Maurice and Gabriela 
Goldschleger School of Dental Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Gingiva that is prone to inflammation may serve as a pre-metastatic 
niche for the attraction of circulating malignant cells. The aim of this study 
is to analyze cases of metastatic lesions to the gingiva compared with cases 
metastasizing to other oral mucosal sites. The pathogenesis of gingival 
metastases is discussed, with emphasis on the role of inflammation.
METHODS: The English-language literature between 1916 and 2011 was searched for 
cases of metastatic lesions to the oral mucosa; only cases metastasizing in the 
oral mucosa, gingiva, and periodontium were included.
RESULTS: Two hundred seven cases were included. The gingiva was the most common 
site (60.4%), followed by tongue and tonsil. The most common primary sites were 
lung (24.2%), kidney (13.5%), skin (10.6%), and breast (8.7%). In 27%, the oral 
lesion was the first sign of a malignant disease. In most cases, the lesion 
appeared as an exophytic mass (96%) diagnosed clinically as a reactive gingival 
lesion. The presence of teeth was significantly associated with the development 
of gingival metastases: in 108 of 125 gingival metastases, the lesion was found 
adjacent to teeth (P <0.001; odds ratio = 8.2). The average life expectancy 
after diagnosis of the metastasis was 3.7 months.
CONCLUSIONS: The gingiva is the most common site for metastases to oral soft 
tissues, with strong association with the presence of teeth. This finding may be 
related to the role of inflammation in the attraction of metastatic cells to 
chronically inflamed gingiva.

DOI: 10.1902/jop.2013.130118
PMID: 23646853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. J Med Econ. 2013 Jul;16(7):859-65. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.802239. Epub
2013  May 20.

Randomized, open-label study to evaluate patient-reported outcomes with 
fingolimod after changing from prior disease-modifying therapy for relapsing 
multiple sclerosis: EPOC study rationale and design.

Cascione M(1), Wynn D, Barbato LM, Pestreich L, Schofield L, McCague K.

Author information:
(1)Tampa Neurology Associates, South Tampa Multiple Sclerosis Center, Tampa, FL 
33609, USA. me@markcascione.com

OBJECTIVE: The study to Evaluate Patient OutComes, Safety, and Tolerability of 
Fingolimod (EPOC; NCT01216072) aimed to test the hypothesis that therapy change 
to oral Gilenya (Novartis AG, Stein, Switzerland) (fingolimod) improves 
patient-reported outcomes compared with standard-of-care disease-modifying 
therapy (DMT) in patients with relapsing multiple sclerosis; safety and 
tolerability were also assessed. This communication describes the study 
rationale and design.
METHODS: EPOC is a phase 4, open-label, multi-center study conducted in the US 
and Canada of patients with relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis who are 
candidates for therapy change. Therapy change eligibility was determined by the 
treating physician (US patients) or required an inadequate response to or poor 
tolerance for at least 1 MS therapy (Canadian patients). Patients were randomly 
assigned in a 3:1 ratio to 6 months of treatment with once-daily oral fingolimod 
0.5 mg or standard-of-care DMTs. The primary study end-point was the change from 
baseline in treatment satisfaction as determined by the global satisfaction 
sub-scale of the Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire for Medication. Secondary 
end-points included changes from baseline in perceived effectiveness and 
side-effects, and measures of activities of daily living, fatigue, depression, 
and quality-of-life. A 3-month open-label fingolimod extension was available for 
patients randomly assigned to the DMT group who successfully completed all study 
visits.
RESULTS: Enrollment has been completed with 1053 patients; the patient 
population is generally older and has a longer duration of disease compared with 
populations from phase 3 studies of fingolimod.
LIMITATIONS: Inclusion criteria selected for patients with a sub-optimal 
experience with a previous DMT, limiting the collection of data on therapy 
change in patients who were satisfied with their previous DMT.
CONCLUSIONS: Results of the EPOC study are anticipated in early 2013 and will 
inform treatment selection by providing patient-centered data on therapy switch 
to fingolimod or standard-of-care DMTs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01216072.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.802239
PMID: 23647445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. J Med Econ. 2013 Jul;16(7):866-76. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.802240. Epub
2013  May 20.

Understanding the effects on HR-QoL of treatment for overactive bladder: a 
detailed analysis of EQ-5D clinical trial data for mirabegron.

Pavesi M(1), Devlin N, Hakimi Z, Nazir J, Herdman M, Hoyle C, Odeyemi IA.

Author information:
(1)Data Management Centre, European Consortium on Liver Failure, Hospital Clínic 
i Provincial, Barcelona, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Analysis of EQ-5D data often focuses on changes in utility, ignoring 
valuable information from other parts of the instrument. The objective was to 
explore how the utility index, EQ-5D profile, and EQ-VAS captured change in 
clinical trials of mirabegron, a new treatment for overactive bladder (OAB).
DATA: Data were pooled from three phase III clinical trials that investigated 
the efficacy and safety of mirabegron vs placebo. Tolterodine ER 4 mg was 
included as an active control in one study: (1) placebo, mirabegron 50 mg and 
100 mg, and tolterodine 4 mg ER; (2) placebo, mirabegron 50 mg and 100 mg; (3) 
placebo, and mirabegron 25 mg and 50 mg. Data were collected at baseline, week 
4, 8, and 12.
METHODS: Analyses were performed on full analysis and modified intention to 
treat (ITT) data sets using UK utilities. Analysis controlled for relevant 
patient characteristics. Analysis of Covariance identified changes from baseline 
at each time point in utilities and EQ-VAS. Areas Under the Curve were estimated 
to summarize inter-temporal differences in effect. EQ-5D profile data were 
analysed using the Paretian Classification of Health Change.
RESULTS: In modified ITT analyses, mirabegron 50 mg was superior to tolterodine 
4 mg in changes from baseline utilities after 12 weeks (p < 0.05); similarly, 
AUC results showed mirabegron 50 mg to be superior to tolterodine (p < 0.05) and 
placebo (p < 0.05) with the benefit already apparent at 4 weeks (p < 0.05). 
EQ-VAS more consistently indicated superior outcomes: all three mirabegron doses 
showed statistically significant greater effectiveness compared to tolterodine 
at 12 weeks. Individual EQ-5D dimensions and the overall profile showed no 
significant differences between study arms.
CONCLUSION: Mirabegron showed quicker and superior improvement in HR-QoL 
compared to tolterodine 4 mg ER. A limitation of the study is that EQ-5D was a 
secondary outcome in the pivotal trials, which were not powered to measure 
differences on EQ-5D.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.802240
PMID: 23647446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. J Med Econ. 2013 Jul;16(7):877-87. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.802694. Epub
2013  May 22.

The cost-effectiveness of onabotulinumtoxinA for the prophylaxis of headache in 
adults with chronic migraine in the UK.

Batty AJ(1), Hansen RN, Bloudek LM, Varon SF, Hayward EJ, Pennington BW, Lipton 
RB, Sullivan SD.

Author information:
(1)BresMed, Sheffield, UK. abatty@bresmed.co.uk

BACKGROUND: Although chronic migraine is associated with substantial disability 
and costs, few treatments have been shown to be effective. OnabotulinumtoxinA 
(Botox, Allergan Inc., Irvine, CA) is the first treatment to be licensed in the 
UK for the prophylaxis of headaches in adults with chronic migraine. This study 
aims to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of onabotulinumtoxinA in this indication 
in the UK.
METHODS: A state-transition (Markov) model was developed comparing 
onabotulinumtoxinA to placebo. Efficacy data and utility values were taken from 
the pooled Phase III REsearch Evaluating Migraine Prophylaxis Therapy (PREEMPT) 
clinical trials program (n = 1384). Estimates of resource utilisation were taken 
from the International Burden of Migraine Study (IBMS), and stopping rules were 
informed by published medical guidelines and clinical data. This study estimated 
2-year discounted costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) from the UK 
National Health Service perspective.
RESULTS: At 2 years, treatment with onabotulinumtoxinA was associated with an 
increase in costs of £1367 and an increase in QALYs of 0.1 compared to placebo, 
resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £15,028. 
Treatment with onabotulinumtoxinA reduced headache days by an estimated 38 days 
per year at a cost of £18 per headache day avoided. Sensitivity analysis showed 
that utility values had the greatest influence on model results. The ICER 
remained cost-effective at a willingness to pay threshold of 
£20,000-£30,000/QALY in the majority of scenario analyses as well as in 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, where onabotulinumtoxinA was cost-effective 
on 96% of occasions at a threshold of £20,000/QALY and 98% of occasions at 
£30,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: OnabotulinumtoxinA has been shown to reduce the frequency of 
headaches in patients with chronic migraine and can be considered a 
cost-effective use of resources in the UK National Health Service. The 
uncertainties in the model relate to the extrapolation of clinical data beyond 
the 56-week trial.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.802694
PMID: 23647483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Haemophilia. 2013 Sep;19(5):674-8. doi: 10.1111/hae.12148. Epub 2013 May 7.

Head-to-head comparison of the pharmacokinetic profiles of a high-purity factor 
IX concentrate (AlphaNine®) and a recombinant factor IX (BeneFIX®) in patients 
with severe haemophilia B.

Lissitchkov T(1), Matysiak M, Zavilska K, Laguna P, Gercheva L, Antonov A, Moret 
A, Caunedo P, Aznar JA, Woodward MK, Páez A.

Author information:
(1)National Center of Hematology, Sofia, Bulgaria. t.lissitchkov@yahoo.com

Head-on comparative studies of factor IX (FIX) concentrates performed under 
standardized conditions are rarely conducted regardless of being a valuable 
instrument guiding health care providers towards better informed and 
cost-effective decisions. This study is an extension of a multicentre study that 
assessed the efficacy, safety and pharmacokinetics (PK) of AlphaNine(®) in 25 
previously treated patients with severe haemophilia B (FIX:C ≤ 2%). After a 
washout period ≥ 7 days following the last PK performed with AlphaNine(®) after 
a dose of 65-75 IU kg(-1) , an identical PK study was performed with BeneFIX(®) 
on 22 of the same patients. Venous blood samples for analysis were taken at 
baseline and at 0.25, 0.5, 1, 3, 6, 9, 24, 48, 72 and 74 h post infusion. The 
outcomes of the comparison of the PK parameters were as follows: Mean (± SD) in 
vivo recovery (IVR) was 1.3 ± 0.4 IU dL(-1) per IU kg(-1) for AlphaNine(®) and 
1.0 ± 0.3 IU dL(-1) per IU kg(-1) for BeneFIX(®) (P < 0.01). Mean terminal 
half-life, mean residence time, area under the curve, clearance and volume of 
distribution of BeneFIX(®) were 36.0 ± 12.8 h, 39.3 ± 13.9 h, 1631 ± 467 IU h 
dL(-1) , 0.046 ± 0.01 dL kg(-1) min(-1) and 1.75 ± 0.52 mL kg(-1) respectively. 
These values were not significantly different to those observed in AlphaNine(®), 
although BeneFIX(®) displayed higher than expected IVR values and lower than 
expected clearance values. In conclusion, AlphaNine(®) showed a comparable 
half-life, but an IVR significantly higher than that of BeneFIX(®). This 
dissimilarity may have implications on dosing requirements for on-demand 
treatment regimes affecting optimal resource allocation.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12148
PMID: 23647607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2013 Jun;14(6):450.e7-12. doi:
10.1016/j.jamda.2013.03.014.  Epub 2013 May 4.

Polypharmacy and mortality among nursing home residents with advanced cognitive 
impairment: results from the SHELTER study.

Onder G(1), Liperoti R, Foebel A, Fialova D, Topinkova E, van der Roest HG, 
Gindin J, Cruz-Jentoft AJ, Fini M, Gambassi G, Bernabei R; SHELTER project.

Author information:
(1)Centro Medicina dell'Invecchiamento, Università Cattolica Sacro Cuore, Rome, 
Italy. graziano.onder@rm.unicatt.it

INTRODUCTION: Older adults with advanced cognitive impairment have a limited 
life expectancy and the use of multiple drugs is of questionable benefit in this 
population. The aim of the present study was to assess if, in a sample of 
nursing home (NH) residents with advanced cognitive impairment, the effect of 
polypharmacy on mortality differs depending on estimated life expectancy.
METHODS: Data were from the Services and Health for Elderly in Long TERm care 
(SHELTER) project, a study collecting information on residents admitted to 57 
NHs in 8 European countries. Polypharmacy was defined as the concomitant use of 
10 or more drugs. Limited life expectancy was estimated based on an Advanced 
Dementia Prognostic Tool (ADEPT) score of 13.5 or more. A Cognitive Performance 
Scale score of 5 or more was used to define advanced cognitive impairment. 
Participants were followed for 1 year.
RESULTS: Mean age of 822 residents with advanced cognitive impairment entering 
the study was 84.6 (SD 8.0) years, and 630 (86.6%) were women. Overall, 123 
participants (15.0%) had an ADEPT score of 13.5 or more (indicating limited life 
expectancy) and 114 (13.9%) were on polypharmacy. Relative to residents with 
ADEPT score less than 13.5, those with ADEPT score of 13.5 or higher had a lower 
use of benzodiazepines, antidementia drugs, and statins but a higher use of 
beta-blockers, digoxin, and antibiotics. Polypharmacy was associated with 
increased mortality among residents with ADEPT score of 13.5 or more (adjusted 
hazard ratio [HR] 2.19, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.15-4.17), but not among 
those with ADEPT score less than 13.5 (adjusted HR 1.10, 95% CI: 0.71-1.71).
DISCUSSION: Polypharmacy is associated with increased mortality in NH residents 
with advanced cognitive impairment at the end of life.
CONCLUSION: These findings underline the need to assess life expectancy in older 
adults to improve the prescribing process and to simplify drug regimens.

Copyright © 2013 American Medical Directors Association, Inc. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2013.03.014
PMID: 23647778 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Microb Biotechnol. 2013 Jul;6(4):341-8. doi: 10.1111/1751-7915.12063. Epub
2013  May 6.

What is health?

Brüssow H(1).

Author information:
(1)Nestlé Research Center, BioAnalytical Sciences, Food and Health Microbiology, 
Lausanne, Switzerland. harald.bruessow@rdls.nestle.com

Classical medical research is disease focused and still defines health as 
absence of disease. Languages, however, associate a positive concept of 
wholeness with health as does the WHO health definition. Newer medical health 
definitions emphasize the capacity to adapt to changing external and internal 
circumstances. The results of the 2010 Global Burden of Disease study provides 
keys for a quantifiable health metrics by developing statistical tools 
calculating healthy life expectancy. Of central social and economic importance 
is the question whether healthy ageing can be achieved. This concept hinges on 
theories on the biological basis of lifespan determination and whether 
negligible senescence and the compression of morbidity can be achieved in human 
societies. Since the health impact of the human gut microbiome is currently a 
topical research area, microbiologists should be aware of the problems in 
defining health.

© 2013 The Author. Microbial Biotechnology published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd 
and Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/1751-7915.12063
PMCID: PMC3917469
PMID: 23647782 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Zhonghua Liu Xing Bing Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Jan;34(1):33-6.

[Disease burden on diabetes in China, 2010].

[Article in Chinese]

Li YC(1), Liu XT, Hu N, Jiang Y, Zhao WH.

Author information:
(1)Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the disease burden of diabetes in China, 2010.
METHODS: We calculated the disability adjusted life years (DALYs) of diabetes, 
using data from both the Mortality Surveillance in National Disease Surveillance 
Points System and the China Chronic Disease Surveillance (2010). We also 
examined the differences of DALYs by gender, age, urban/rural areas and 
geographical locations.
RESULTS: The overall disease burden of diabetes was 19.12 DALYs per 1000 
population. Men (18.30 DALYs per 1000) had a higher DALY rate than in women 
(19.97 DALYs per 1000). We observed an upside-down "U" relationship between DALY 
rate and age. Residents aged 15 - 79 years bore most part of disease burden and 
the burden peaked among population at age from 45 to 60 years (30.39 DALYs per 
1000). There was a higher DALY rate seen in the population from the urban areas 
(17.83 DALYs per 1000) than those from the rural areas (17.03 DALYs per 1000). 
In order, the burden showed a decrease from the eastern region (22.28 DALYs per 
1000), middle region (19.62 DALYs per 1000) to the western region (13.54 DALYs 
per 1000), in the country.
CONCLUSION: China is currently carrying considerable burden caused by diabetes 
among the population of labor force while inequity of burden was seen among 
different geographical regions within China.

PMID: 23648246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Injury. 2013 Aug;44(8):1092-6. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2013.04.001. Epub 2013
May  3.

Surgical treatment of impending and pathological fractures of tibia.

Piccioli A(1), Maccauro G, Scaramuzzo L, Graci C, Spinelli MS.

Author information:
(1)Ortopedia Oncologica, Centro Oncologico di Palazzo Baleani, Azienda 
Policlinico Umberto I, Rome, Italy. piccioli.andrea@gmail.com

Advances in adjuvant and neoadjuvant therapies have improved the prognosis of 
cancer patients leading to an increasing incidence of bone metastases and 
consequent long bone fractures. In the present study the authors consider the 
indications and the different surgical options of treatment of tibial 
pathological lesions. 13 patients (14 lesions, 6 pathological fractures), 
treated according to histotype and lesion localisation, were retrospectively 
evaluated. Using generic outcome instruments such as the Eastern Cooperative 
Oncology Group (ECOG) and Quality of life questionnaire of European Organization 
for Research and Treatment of Cancer (QLQ-C30) pain, mobility and use of 
analgesics were evaluated before and after surgery. In all patients, mechanical 
stabilisation of the osteolytic lesion was achieved. There were no pathological 
fractures, and no implant mechanical failure. All patients reported pain relief, 
with a relevant reduction in the amount of analgesics used. Surgical treatment 
of tibial metastases has to be decided taking into consideration the histotype, 
localisation of the metastases and life expectancy. The treatment has to be 
all-encompassing in a solitary lesion in patients with a good prognosis but less 
invasive in plurimetastatic patients with poor prognosis. Acquisition of good 
mechanical stability is crucial for a successful outcome.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2013.04.001
PMID: 23648362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Sci Rep. 2013;3:1771. doi: 10.1038/srep01771.

Discrete event simulation model of sudden cardiac death predicts high impact of 
preventive interventions.

Andreev VP(1), Head T, Johnson N, Deo SK, Daunert S, Goldschmidt-Clermont PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Miami Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, FL, USA.

Sudden Cardiac Death (SCD) is responsible for at least 180,000 deaths a year and 
incurs an average cost of $286 billion annually in the United States alone. 
Herein, we present a novel discrete event simulation model of SCD, which 
quantifies the chains of events associated with the formation, growth, and 
rupture of atheroma plaques, and the subsequent formation of clots, thrombosis 
and on-set of arrhythmias within a population. The predictions generated by the 
model are in good agreement both with results obtained from pathological 
examinations on the frequencies of three major types of atheroma, and with 
epidemiological data on the prevalence and risk of SCD. These model predictions 
allow for identification of interventions and importantly for the optimal time 
of intervention leading to high potential impact on SCD risk reduction (up to 
8-fold reduction in the number of SCDs in the population) as well as the 
increase in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1038/srep01771
PMCID: PMC3646271
PMID: 23648451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Z Rheumatol. 2013 May;72(4):361-9; quiz 370-1. doi:
10.1007/s00393-013-1198-6.

[Why rheumatoid arthritis needs cardiologists].

[Article in German]

Pieringer H(1), Hoppe UC.

Author information:
(1)Academic Research Unit, Interne 2, Allgemeines Krankenhaus Linz, 
Krankenhausstr. 9, 4020 Linz, Österreich. herwigpi@yahoo.com

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is associated with a shortened life expectancy. Most 
premature deaths are caused by cardiovascular (CV) events; therefore it is of 
importance to consider the increased CV risk when treating RA patients. 
Traditional CV risk factors cannot fully explain the increased risk but the 
common understanding is that inflammation significantly contributes to the 
excess risk observed. Without the use of correction factors commonly used risk 
calculators underestimate the true CV risk in RA patients. Methotrexate and TNF 
inhibitors appear to be beneficial with regard to the CV risk. To date there are 
only few recommendations for interventions in the CV system of RA patients which 
go beyond those formulated for the general population. The present manuscript 
summarizes the published evidence concerning the increased CV risk in RA 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-013-1198-6
PMID: 23649300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

