optical path length encoded apertures. These three images are coherently summed 
after phase-manipulation to reconstruct a new image with a lateral resolution 
that is maintained over a five times larger depth range.

DOI: 10.1364/OE.21.010048
PMID: 23609710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. J Alzheimers Dis. 2013;36(2):303-9. doi: 10.3233/JAD-130002.

Survival rate in patients affected by dementia followed by memory clinics (UVA) 
in Italy.

Ientile L(1), De Pasquale R, Monacelli F, Odetti P, Traverso N, Cammarata S, 
Tabaton M, Dijk B.

Author information:
(1)Section of Geriatrics, Department of Internal Medicine and Medical 
Specialties (DIMI), University of Genova, Genova, Italy.

People affected by dementia experienced decreased life expectancy with a 2-4 
times higher risk of death at a given age compared to non-demented people. 
Dementia represents a major cost to health care and society in the Western world 
and, particularly in Italy, is projected to become a high-resource demanding 
chronic disease. The present study aimed to estimate the average survival rate 
of a group of community dwelling elderly affected by dementia in Italy, and to 
assess the predictive variables associated with survival length. This 
retrospective study collected the data of patients (n = 290) who died from 2008 
to 2012. The data were extracted from a cohort of over 2,000 patients from three 
outpatient Dementia Clinics of Genoa (Italy). Demographic data and other 
clinical parameters listed in the patients' clinical records were collected. The 
mean survival rate after dementia diagnosis was 3.3 ± 0.1 years, lower compared 
to the age-matched healthy population. The survival rate of these patients 
showed a significant correlation with age (n = 290; r = -0.16: p < 0.006), with 
the cognitive status (n = 285; r = 0.16: p < 0.007), with education (n = 204; r 
= 0.23: p < 0.001), with comorbidity (n = 138; r = -0.41: p < 0.0001), with 
depressive mood (n = 74; r = 0.44: p < 0.0001), and with the functional status 
(ADL: n = 242, r = 0.29: p < 0.0001; IADL: n = 243; r = 0.25: p < 0.0001). 
Multivariate regression revealed age, gender, and functional status as the main 
determinants informing patient survival. The study provides interesting and 
reliable data on the pivotal value of early dementia diagnosis in predicting 
longer survival and addresses comprehensive geriatric assessment, which 
encompasses most of the predictive variables provided by the study, as a 
remarkable tool in estimating life expectancy of patients with dementia.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-130002
PMID: 23609761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Clin Interv Aging. 2013;8:391-4. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S39536. Epub 2013 Apr 11.

Managing myelodysplastic syndromes in very old patients: a teaching case report.

Niscola P(1), Palombi M, Trawinska MM, Tendas A, Giovannini M, Scaramucci L, 
Perrotti A, de Fabritiis P.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Unit, Sant'Eugenio Hospital, Rome, Italy. pniscola@gmail.com

The introduction of hypomethylating agents in the treatment of myelodysplastic 
syndromes (MDS) has significantly changed the clinical scenario of these 
diseases, which afflict predominantly older individuals. However, some concerns 
regarding the optimal application of these innovative and costly agents in the 
treatment of geriatric high-risk MDS remain. We report here the case of a 
nonagenarian treated with hypomethylating agents achieving a long-lasting 
clinical response and a significant improvement in her functional status. Our 
case confirmed that functional status and biological status, rather than the 
chronological age alone, can substantially guide the plan of an appropriate 
treatment strategy in high-risk MDS patients; moreover, the current case 
emphasizes the need for targeted studies in the field of geriatric MDS in order 
to formulate guidelines on the appropriate use of these costly agents, so that 
candidate patients can receive adequate treatment to preserve their quality of 
life and life expectancy, but at the same time avoiding unnecessary costs 
deriving from the use of high-cost drugs for those in whom a significant 
therapeutic result cannot be reasonably expected.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S39536
PMCID: PMC3628529
PMID: 23610516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. J Med Life. 2013 Mar 15;6(1):26-33. Epub 2013 Mar 25.

Burnei's technique in the treatment of radial head displacement; innovative 
surgery. Study on two cases.

Ghinea CA(1), Gavriliu S, Georgescu I, Vlad C, Japie E, Pârvan A, Ghiță R.

Author information:
(1)Craiova County Emergency Hospital.

INTRODUCTION: Dislocation of the radial head, congenital or traumatic, 
anteriorly, posteriorly or laterally displaced, requires surgery to reseat and 
stabilize the head of the radius within the joint, in order to restore elbow 
flexion and, as much as possible, pronation-supination.
SCOPE: This article is meant to present the technique of proximal radial-ulnar 
ligament plasty using the extensor carpi radialis longus (ECRL) tendon, as well 
as other techniques for the stabilization of a dislocated radial head. The ECRL 
tendon technique, quadrate and annular ligament reconstruction variant was first 
used by Gh. Burnei in 1985, at Mangalia Municipal Hospital, Romania.
MATERIALS AND METHOD: This study contains two clinical cases, a 6-year-old girl 
with congenital dislocation of the radial head, and a 10-year-old boy with 
traumatic dislocation of the radial head, both of whom were treated by open 
reduction and stabilization of the dislocation with the ECRL tendon, using the 
Burnei procedure.
RESULTS: In both cases, the operation was successful in the reduction and 
stabilization of the dislocated radial head, whose position was maintained in 
flexion-extension and pronation-supination, and in the reconstruction of the 
annular ligament using Burnei's procedure, variant 2. Postoperatively, the 
clinical evolution was good, the patients having regained elbow mobility. The 
child with congenital dislocation exhibits normal flexion and 
pronation-supination within normal range, and the traumatic dislocation also 
exhibits normal flexion and pronation-supination limited with 20 degrees. 
Radiologically, in both cases the radial head is anatomically placed relatively 
to the humeral capitellum, in both flexion and extension.
DISCUSSION: Stabilization of the radial head in traumatic or congenital 
dislocation can only be surgically achieved. Congenital dislocation of the 
radial head requires the reconstruction of the proximal radial-ulnar joint, 
preferably at a young age, in order to avoid subsequent complications, 
culminating in ulnar or radial nerve paralysis. Traumatic dislocation of the 
radial head is usually accompanied by the fracture of the ulna, but may be 
encountered in isolation.
CONCLUSIONS: The Burnei procedure is an alternative for the treatment of radial 
head dislocation and is advantageous because of the use of a study, well 
vascularized tendon, which allows, when needed, the complete reconstruction of 
the proximal radial-ulnar ligaments, or just the annular ligament, in order to 
stabilize the head of the radius within the elbow joint. Also, the technique 
doesn't require osteotomies or an osteosynthesis requiring another surgery to 
remove the synthesis materials.

PMCID: PMC3632355
PMID: 23610590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Ecol Evol. 2013 Apr;3(4):1113-24. doi: 10.1002/ece3.505. Epub 2013 Mar 6.

Disturbances, organisms and ecosystems: a global change perspective.

Ponge JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Muséum National d'Histoire Naturelle, CNRS UMR 7179 4 avenue du 
Petit-Château, Brunoy, 91800, France.

The present text exposes a theory of the role of disturbances in the assemblage 
and evolution of species within ecosystems, based principally, but not 
exclusively, on terrestrial ecosystems. Two groups of organisms, doted of 
contrasted strategies when faced with environmental disturbances, are presented, 
based on the classical r-K dichotomy, but enriched with more modern concepts 
from community and evolutionary ecology. Both groups participate in the assembly 
of known animal, plant, and microbial communities, but with different 
requirements about environmental fluctuations. The so-called "civilized" 
organisms are doted with efficient anticipatory mechanisms, allowing them to 
optimize from an energetic point of view their performances in a predictable 
environment (stable or fluctuating cyclically at the scale of life expectancy), 
and they developed advanced specializations in the course of evolutionary time. 
On the opposite side, the so-called "barbarians" are weakly efficient in a 
stable environment because they waste energy for foraging, growth, and 
reproduction, but they are well adapted to unpredictably changing conditions, in 
particular during major ecological crises. Both groups of organisms succeed or 
alternate each other in the course of spontaneous or geared successional 
processes, as well as in the course of evolution. The balance of "barbarians" 
against "civilized" strategies within communities is predicted to shift in favor 
of the first type under present-day anthropic pressure, exemplified among others 
by climate warming, land use change, pollution, and biological invasions.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.505
PMCID: PMC3631418
PMID: 23610648


862. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Apr;17(16):1-243. doi: 10.3310/hta17160.

Contrast-enhanced ultrasound using SonoVue® (sulphur hexafluoride microbubbles) 
compared with contrast-enhanced computed tomography and contrast-enhanced 
magnetic resonance imaging for the characterisation of focal liver lesions and 
detection of liver metastases: a systematic review and cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Westwood M(1), Joore M, Grutters J, Redekop K, Armstrong N, Lee K, Gloy V, Raatz 
H, Misso K, Severens J, Kleijnen J.

Author information:
(1)Kleijnen Systematic Reviews Ltd, York, UK. marie@systematic-reviews.com

BACKGROUND: Medical imaging techniques are important in the management of many 
patients with liver disease. Unenhanced ultrasound examinations sometimes 
identify focal abnormalities in the liver that may require further 
investigation, primarily to distinguish liver cancers from benign abnormalities. 
One important factor in selecting an imaging test is the ability to provide a 
rapid diagnosis. Options for additional imaging investigations include computed 
tomography (CT) and/or magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and biopsy when the 
diagnosis remains uncertain. CT and MRI usually require referral with associated 
waiting time and are sometimes contraindicated. The use of contrast agents may 
improve the ability of ultrasound to distinguish between liver cancer and benign 
abnormalities and, because it can be performed at the same appointment as 
unenhanced ultrasound, more rapid diagnoses may be possible.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
contrast-enhanced ultrasound (CEUS) using SonoVue(®) with that of 
contrast-enhanced computed tomography (CECT) and contrast-enhanced magnetic 
resonance imaging (CEMRI) for the assessment of adults with focal liver lesions 
(FLLs) in whom previous liver imaging is inconclusive.
DATA SOURCES: Eight bibliographic databases including MEDLINE, EMBASE, Cochrane 
Database of Systematic Reviews and Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects 
were searched from 2000 to September/October 2011. Research registers and 
conference proceedings were also searched.
REVIEW METHODS: Systematic review methods followed published guidance. Risk of 
bias was assessed using a modified version of the QUADAS-2 tool. Results were 
stratified by clinical indication for imaging (characterisation of FLLs detected 
on ultrasound surveillance of cirrhosis patients, detection of liver metastases, 
characterisation of incidentally detected FLLs, assessment of treatment 
response). For incidental FLLs, pooled estimates of sensitivity and specificity, 
with 95% CIs, were calculated using a random-effects model. For other clinical 
indications a narrative summary was used. The cost-effectiveness of CEUS was 
modelled separately for the three main clinical applications considered 
[characterisation of FLLs detected on ultrasound surveillance of cirrhosis 
patients, detection of liver metastases in patients with colorectal cancer 
(CRC), characterisation of incidentally detected FLLs].
RESULTS: Of the 854 references identified, 19 (describing 18 studies) were 
included in the review. Hand searching of conference proceedings identified a 
further three studies. Twenty of the 21 studies included in the systematic 
review were diagnostic test accuracy studies. Studies in cirrhosis patients 
reported varying estimates of test performance. There was no consistent evidence 
of a significant difference in performance between imaging modalities. It was 
unclear whether or not CEUS alone is adequate to rule out hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) for FLLs of < 30 mm; one study indicated that CEUS may be better 
at ruling out HCC for FLLs of 11-30 mm [very small FLLs (< 10 mm) excluded]. 
There was no consistent evidence of a difference in test performance between 
imaging modalities for the detection of metastases; CEUS alone may be adequate 
to rule out liver metastases in colorectal cancer. In patients with incidentally 
detected FLLs, the pooled estimates of sensitivity for any malignancy using CEUS 
and CECT were 95.1% and 94.6%, respectively, and the corresponding specificity 
estimates were 93.8% and 93.1% respectively. One study comparing CEUS with CEMRI 
reported similar sensitivity and lower specificity for both modalities. In the 
surveillance of cirrhosis, CEUS was as effective as but £379 less costly than 
CECT. CEMRI was £1063 more costly than CEUS and gained 0.022 QALYs. In the 
detection of liver metastases from CRC, CEUS cost £1 more than CECT, and at a 
lifetime time horizon they yielded equal QALYs. CEMRI was dominated by CECT. In 
the characterisation of incidentally detected FLLs, CEUS was slightly more 
effective than CECT and CEMRI (by 0.0002 QALYs and 0.0026 QALYs respectively) 
and less costly (by £52 and £131 respectively).
LIMITATIONS: There were a number of methodological issues specific to the 
studies included in this review. The main indication for liver imaging in the 
populations considered is likely to be to rule out primary liver cancer or 
metastases. Therefore, patient-level analyses of test performance are of 
particular interest. Some of the studies included in this review reported 
per-patient analyses; however, no study clearly stated how results were defined 
(e.g. was the presence of any positive lesion regarded as a positive test for 
the whole patient). In addition, a number of studies reported data for one 
lesion per patient (treated as per-patient data in this assessment). These 
studies generally selected the largest lesion or the lesion 'most suspicious for 
malignancy' for inclusion in analyses, with the consequence that estimates of 
test performance may have been exaggerated. The applicability of studies 
included in this review may be limited, as the majority of imaging studies were 
interpreted by multiple, experienced operators and the prevalence of malignancy 
in included studies appeared higher than might be expected in clinical practice. 
The cost-effectiveness analyses did not take into account the potential benefits 
of reduced anxiety that may arise from potentially shorter waiting times 
associated with SonoVue CEUS.
CONCLUSIONS: SonoVue CEUS could provide similar diagnostic performance to other 
imaging modalities (CECT and CEMRI) for the assessment of FLLs. Economic 
analyses indicated that CEUS was a cost-effective replacement for CEMRI. The use 
of CEUS instead of CECT was considered cost-effective in the surveillance of 
cirrhosis and the characterisation of incidentally detected FLLs, with similar 
costs and effects for the detection of liver metastases from CRC. Further 
research is needed to compare the effects of different imaging modalities 
(SonoVue CEUS, CECT, CEMRI) on therapeutic planning, treatment and clinical 
outcomes. Future test accuracy studies should provide standardised definitions 
of a positive imaging test, and compare all three imaging modalities in the same 
patient group.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO: CRD42011001694.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17160
PMCID: PMC4781376
PMID: 23611316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Int Rev Psychiatry. 2013 Apr;25(2):130-7. doi: 10.3109/09540261.2013.776523.

The epidemiology of frontotemporal dementia.

Onyike CU(1), Diehl-Schmid J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Psychiatry and Neuropsychiatry, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore MD, USA.

Frontotemporal dementia, a heterogeneous neurodegenerative disorder, is a common 
cause of young onset dementia (i.e. dementia developing in midlife or earlier). 
The estimated point prevalence is 15-22/100,000, and incidence 2.7-4.1/100,000. 
Some 25% are late-life onset cases. Population studies show nearly equal 
distribution by gender, which contrasts with myriad clinical and neuropathology 
reports. FTD is frequently familial and hereditary; five genetic loci for causal 
mutations have been identified, all showing 100% penetrance. Non-genetic risk 
factors are yet to be identified. FTD shows poor life expectancy but with 
survival comparable to that of Alzheimer's disease. Recent progress includes the 
formulation of up-to-date diagnostic criteria for the behavioural and language 
variants, and the development of new and urgently needed instruments for 
monitoring and staging the illness. There is still need for descriptive 
population studies to fill gaps in our knowledge about minority groups and 
developing regions. More pressing, however, is the need for reliable 
physiological markers for disease. There is a present imperative to develop a 
translational science to form the conduit for transferring neurobiological 
discoveries and insights from bench to bedside.

DOI: 10.3109/09540261.2013.776523
PMCID: PMC3932112
PMID: 23611343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. J Expo Sci Environ Epidemiol. 2014 May-Jun;24(3):233-43. doi: 
10.1038/jes.2013.17. Epub 2013 Apr 24.

Exposure factors resources: contrasting EPA's Exposure Factors Handbook with 
international sources.

Phillips LJ(1), Moya J(1).

Author information:
(1)US Environmental Protection Agency, Office of Research and Development, 
National Center for Environmental Assessment, Mailcode 8623P, 1200 Pennsylvania 
Avenue NW, Washington, District of Columbia, USA.

Efforts to compile and standardize human exposure factors have resulted in the 
development of a variety of resources available to the scientific community. For 
example, the US Environmental Protection Agency (EPA) developed the Exposure 
Factors Handbook and Child-specific Exposure Factors Handbook to promote 
consistency among its various exposure-assessment activities. The US EPA 
handbooks are compilations of human exposure factors data, including 
anthropometric and sociocultural data (e.g., body weights, skin-surface areas, 
and life expectancy), behavioral data (e.g., non-dietary ingestion rates, 
activity/time use patterns, and consumer product use), factors that may be 
influenced by the physiological needs of the body, metabolic activity, and 
health and weight status (e.g., water and food intake, and inhalation rates), 
and other factors (e.g., building characteristics). Other countries have engaged 
in similar efforts to compile and standardize exposure factors for use in 
exposure and risk assessments. For example, the ExpoFacts database contains data 
for 30 European Union countries. Australia, Canada, Japan, Korea, and Taiwan 
have developed, or are developing, documents that provide exposure factors data 
relevant to their populations. The purpose of this paper is to provide an 
overview of some of the available exposure factors resources; to explore some of 
the similarities and differences between the US EPA Exposure Factors Handbook 
and selected other international resources, and to highlight data gaps and 
present some considerations for promoting consistency among these resources.

DOI: 10.1038/jes.2013.17
PMID: 23611905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2013 Mar;14(3 Suppl 1):6-11. doi: 10.1714/1261.13933.

[Comorbidity, disability, frailty].

[Article in Italian]

Rubbieri G.

In Italy, life expectancy at birth has reached 80 years in men and 85 in women; 
in about 50 years, life expectancy at the age of 80 has increased by an 
extraordinary 61% and 55%, respectively, due to more effective therapies and 
lower mortality of many diseases. Yet, chronic diseases are nowadays more 
important, and often coexist as comorbidity or multimorbidity, depending on 
whether an index condition has been considered. These conditions increase the 
risk of death and reduce functional autonomy in the elderly and, therefore, 
should be carefully considered within comprehensive geriatric assessment. In 
particular, functional assessment has a crucial role in identifying older 
persons with disabilities in basic and instrumental activities of daily living, 
as well as frail elderly subjects. Frailty results from the progressive 
inefficiency of homeostatic mechanisms as manifested by reduced physical 
performance. Acute and chronic diseases may contribute to frailty by reducing 
functional reserves, thus unmasking previously latent functional deficits. 
Consequently, the care of the elderly, who is often affected by multimorbidity, 
disability, and frailty, cannot be confined solely to the evaluation and 
treatment of single organ diseases, but should follow a global approach.

DOI: 10.1714/1261.13933
PMID: 23612207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2013 Mar;14(3 Suppl 1):31-4. doi: 10.1714/1261.13937.

[Role of regulatory authorities in healthcare delivery for the elderly].

[Article in Italian]

Fini M, Volterrani M.

The population older than 60 years is growing faster than any other age group, 
as a result of longer life expectancy and declining fertility rates. Although 
population aging is a marker of the success of public health policies, it also 
challenges the established way of implementing such policies, which require a 
new strategic approach. Taking into account current achievements in this field, 
regulatory agencies should undertake additional efforts to ensure that the needs 
of older persons are taken into account in the development and evaluation of new 
medicines, to improve our understanding of best methodologies to evaluate the 
benefit-risk ratio for usage of medications in older patients. Health 
professionals need to be ensured that the use of newly approved medicines in the 
intended population is supported by relevant data on the benefit-risk balance. A 
representative population of patients must cover the whole age range when 
studied in the preauthorization phase. Another need is the improvement of 
available information to patients and prescribers, to support safer use of 
medications. During drug development, a dialogue with regulators should be held 
to be sure older people needs will be taken into consideration. Collection of 
data from all possible sources should be optimized, to avoid underreported 
adverse events in elderly people.

DOI: 10.1714/1261.13937
PMID: 23612211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Gene. 2013 Jul 25;524(2):403-6. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.03.026. Epub 2013
Apr  20.

Mild clinical presentation and prolonged survival of a patient with fumarase 
deficiency due to the combination of a known and a novel mutation in FH gene.

Ezgu F(1), Krejci P, Wilcox WR.

Author information:
(1)Medical Genetics Institute, Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA 
90048, USA.

Mutations in the FH gene cause the deficiency of the enzyme fumarase (fumarate 
hydratase, EC 4.2.1.2) which result in autosomal recessive fumaric aciduria in 
early childhood with failure to thrive, seizures, developmental delay, mental 
retardation, hypotonia and sometimes with polycythemia, leukopenia, and 
neutropenia. Many children with fumarate hydratase deficiency do not survive 
infancy or childhood; those surviving beyond childhood have severe psychomotor 
retardation. Recently, FH gene was also identified as a "non-classical" tumor 
suppressor gene and heterozygous mutations were shown to cause multiple 
cutaneous and uterine leiomyomas as well as hereditary leiomyomatosis and renal 
cell cancer. A male patient who was referred to investigate the etiology of 
psychomotor retardation was later diagnosed to have fumaric aciduria due to the 
combination of a previously known (c.1431_1433dupAAA) and a novel (c.782G>T) 
mutation. The patient had an unusually mild clinical course without acidotic 
attacks. Interestingly his father who was heterozygous for the c.1431_1433dupAAA 
mutation in the FH gene had cutaneous leiomyoma.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.03.026
PMID: 23612258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2014 Jan 1;52(1):11-20. doi: 10.1515/cclm-2012-0832.

Advanced glycation end-products and skin autofluorescence in end-stage renal 
disease: a review.

Arsov S, Graaff R, van Oeveren W, Stegmayr B, Sikole A, Rakhorst G, Smit AJ.

Chronic kidney disease (CKD), especially in its end stage, is marked by 
extremely high cardiovascular rates of morbidity and mortality; hemodialysis 
patients have a five-fold shorter life expectancy than healthy subjects of the 
same age. In CKD the metabolic products that accumulate in the body are 
so-called uremic toxins. These include advanced glycation end-products (AGE). 
AGE levels are markedly increased in CKD patients not only because of impaired 
excretion but also because of increased production. AGE formation has initially 
been described as a non-enzymatic reaction between proteins and glucose in the 
so-called Maillard reaction, but they are also more rapidly formed during 
oxidative stress and subsequent formation of reactive carbonyl compounds like 
(methyl)glyoxal. AGE accumulate in tissue where they cross-link with proteins, 
e.g., collagen, inducing tissue stiffening of blood vessels and skin. They may 
also interact with receptor of AGE (RAGE) and other receptors, which lead to 
activation of intracellular transduction mechanisms resulting in cytokine 
release and further tissue damage in CKD. The accumulation of AGE in the skin 
can be measured non-invasively using autofluorescence. The skin autofluorescence 
is a strong marker of cardiovascular mortality in CKD. The focus of this review 
is on the role of tissue and plasma AGE, and of skin autofluorescence as a proxy 
of tissue AGE accumulation, in the increase in cardiovascular disease in end 
stage renal disease (ESRD). This review will also present the possibility of 
reducing the AGE accumulation in ESRD patients using the following five methods: 
1) use of low AGE peritoneal dialysis solutions; 2) use of advanced hemodialysis 
techniques; 3) use of AGE reducing drugs; 4) optimizing the nutrition of 
hemodialysis patients; and 5) renal transplantation.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2012-0832
PMID: 23612551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Biol Chem. 2013 Aug;394(8):951-63. doi: 10.1515/hsz-2013-0112.

The unresolved puzzle why alanine extensions cause disease.

Winter R(1), Liebold J, Schwarz E.

Author information:
(1)Department for Technical Biochemistry , Martin-Luther-University 
Halle-Wittenberg, Kurt-Mothes-Str. 3, D-06120 Halle, Germany.

The prospective increase in life expectancy will be accompanied by a rise in the 
number of elderly people who suffer from ill health caused by old age. Many 
diseases caused by aging are protein misfolding diseases. The molecular 
mechanisms underlying these disorders receive constant scientific interest. In 
addition to old age, mutations also cause congenital protein misfolding 
disorders. Chorea Huntington, one of the most well-known examples, is caused by 
triplet extensions that can lead to more than 100 glutamines in the N-terminal 
region of huntingtin, accompanied by huntingtin aggregation. So far, nine 
disease-associated triplet extensions have also been described for alanine 
codons. The extensions lead primarily to skeletal malformations. Eight of these 
proteins represent transcription factors, while the nuclear poly-adenylate 
binding protein 1, PABPN1, is an RNA binding protein. Additional alanines in 
PABPN1 lead to the disease oculopharyngeal muscular dystrophy (OPMD). The 
alanine extension affects the N-terminal domain of the protein, which has been 
shown to lack tertiary contacts. Biochemical analyses of the N-terminal domain 
revealed an alanine-dependent fibril formation. However, fibril formation of 
full-length protein did not recapitulate the findings of the N-terminal domain. 
Fibril formation of intact PABPN1 was independent of the alanine segment, and 
the fibrils displayed biochemical properties that were completely different from 
those of the N-terminal domain. Although intranuclear inclusions have been shown 
to represent the histochemical hallmark of OPMD, their role in pathogenesis is 
currently unclear. Several cell culture and animal models have been generated to 
study the molecular processes involved in OPMD. These studies revealed a number 
of promising future therapeutic strategies that could one day improve the 
quality of life for the patients.

DOI: 10.1515/hsz-2013-0112
PMID: 23612654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Cardiovasc J Afr. 2013 Mar;24(2):34-42. doi: 10.5830/CVJA-2012-071.

Epidemiology of ischaemic heart disease in sub-Saharan Africa.

Onen CL(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Chronic Diseases, Gaborone, Botswana. onenkede@info.bw

BACKGROUND: The epidemiology of ischaemic heart disease (IHD) in sub-Saharan 
Africa (SSA) remains largely enigmatic. Major obstacles to our understanding of 
the condition include lack of reliable health statistics, particularly 
cause-specific mortality data, inadequate diagnostic capabilities, shortage of 
physicians and cardiologists, and misguided opinions.
METHODS: This review of the epidemiology of ischaemic heart disease in 
sub-Saharan Africa involved a systematic bibliographic MEDLINE search of 
published data on IHD in SSA over the past century. Search words included 
epidemiology, ischaemic (coronary) heart disease, myocardial infarction, 
cardiovascular risk factors and sub-Saharan Africa. Selected data are presented 
on the prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors and mortality from ischaemic 
heart disease from different countries representing the main regions of the 
continent.
RESULTS: Although IHD in SSA remains relatively uncommon, its prevalence is 
predicted to rise in the next two decades due to the rising prevalence of risk 
factors, especially hypertension, diabetes, overweight and obesity, physical 
inactivity, increased tobacco use and dyslipidaemia. It is estimated that 
age-standardised mortality rates for IHD will rise by 27% in African men and 25% 
in women by 2015, and by 70 and 74%, respectively by 2030.
CONCLUSION: Ischaemic heart disease remains relatively uncommon in SSA, despite 
an increasing prevalence of risk factors, but its incidence is rising. The pace 
and direction of economic development, rates of urbanisation, and changes in 
life expectancy resulting from the impact of pre-transitional diseases and 
violence will be major determinants of the IHD epidemic in SSA. The best window 
of opportunity for prevention of the emerging epidemic of ischaemic heart 
disease in sub-Saharan Africa is now.

DOI: 10.5830/CVJA-2012-071
PMCID: PMC3734874
PMID: 23612951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Genet Mol Res. 2013 Apr 2;12(2):1005-11. doi: 10.4238/2013.April.2.16.

The epimer of kaurenoic acid from Croton antisyphiliticus is cytotoxic toward 
B-16 and HeLa tumor cells through apoptosis induction.

Fernandes VC(1), Pereira SI, Coppede J, Martins JS, Rizo WF, Beleboni RO, Marins 
M, Pereira PS, Pereira AM, Fachin AL.

Author information:
(1)Unidade de Biotecnologia, Universidade de Ribeirão Preto, Ribeirão Preto, SP, 
Brasil.

Cancer has become the leading cause of death in developing countries due to 
increased life expectancy of the population and changes in lifestyle. Studies on 
active principles of plant have motivated researchers to develop new antitumor 
agents that are specific and effective for treatment of neoplasms. Kaurane 
diterpenes are considered important compounds in the development of new and 
highly effective anticancer chemotherapeutic agents due to their cytotoxic 
properties in the induction of apoptosis. We evaluated the cytotoxic and 
apoptotic activity of the epimer of kaurenoic acid (EKA) isolated from the 
medicinal plant Croton antisyphiliticus (Euphorbiaceae) toward tumor cell lines 
HeLa and B-16 and normal fibroblasts 3T3. Based on analyses with the MTT test, 
EKA showed cytotoxic activity, with half maximal inhibitory concentration values 
of 59.41, 68.18 and 60.30 µg/mL for the B-16, HeLa and 3T3 cell lines, 
respectively. The assay for necrotic or apoptotic cells by differential staining 
showed induction of apoptosis in all three cell lines. We conclude that EKA is 
not selective between tumor and normal cell lines; the mechanism of action of 
EKA is induction of apoptosis, which is part of the innate mechanism of cell 
defense against neoplasia.

DOI: 10.4238/2013.April.2.16
PMID: 23613246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Korean J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2013 Apr;46(2):111-6. doi: 
10.5090/kjtcs.2013.46.2.111. Epub 2013 Apr 9.

Heart transplantation in the elderly patients: midterm results.

Yeom SY(1), Hwang HY, Oh SJ, Cho HJ, Lee HY, Kim KB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Seoul National University 
Hospital, Seoul National University College of Medicine, Korea.

BACKGROUND: Heart transplantation in elderly patients has raised concerns 
because of co-morbidities and limited life expectancy in the era of donor 
shortage. We examined the outcomes after heart transplantation in elderly 
patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: From March 1994 to December 2011, 81 patients 
(male:female=64:17, 49.1±14.0 years) underwent heart transplantation. The 
outcomes after heart transplantation in the younger patients (<60 years; group 
Y, n=60) were compared with those in the elderly patients (≥60 years; group O, 
n=21). The follow-up duration was 51.8±62.7 months.
RESULTS: Early mortality (≤30 days) occurred in 5.0% (3/60) and 4.8% (1/21) of 
groups Y and O, respectively (p>0.999). There were no differences in overall 
survival between the two groups (p=0.201). Freedom from rejection was higher in 
group O than in group Y (p=0.026). Multivariable analysis revealed that age ≥60 
years was not a significant risk factor for long-term survival; postoperative 
renal failure was the only significant risk factor for long-term survival 
(p=0.011).
CONCLUSION: Early and mid-term results of heart transplantation in elderly 
patients were similar to those in younger patients.

DOI: 10.5090/kjtcs.2013.46.2.111
PMCID: PMC3631784
PMID: 23614096

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


873. Monaldi Arch Chest Dis. 2012 Sep;78(3):129-37. doi:
10.4081/monaldi.2012.118.

[The complexity of risk stratification in older patient candidate to non-cardiac 
surgery].

[Article in Italian]

Baldasseroni S(1), Orso F, Pratesi A, Foschini A, Marella AG, Bartoli N, Bracali 
I, Antenore A, Tarantini F, Burgisser C, Marchionni N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Critical Care Medicine and Surgery, Unit of Gerontology and 
Geriatrics, University of Florence and Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria 
Careggi, Florence, Italy. pesine@libero.it

During the last decades the older patients who are candidates for surgery have 
grown exponentially due to the increase in life expectancy and the surgery 
technique improvement. Despite this, the mortality remains high and our ability 
to predict the surgery outcomes continues to be low in the elderly. The main 
reason is related to different difficulties; we are unable to differentiate 
properly the chronological from the biological age, and the current surgery and 
cardiology risk scores are poorly geriatric-oriented. We must underline how the 
measure of comorbidity during the preoperative evaluation is often limited to a 
simple count of comorbid conditions, without a more detailed assessment of their 
severity. On the other hand different comorbidity scores have been validated in 
geriatric populations showing a good correlation with prognosis, such as the 
Index of Coexisting Disease-ICED or the Geriatric Index of Comorbidity-GIC. Our 
predictive deficiency about the outcomes is linked to poor attention for 
identifying the frail patients that are already at high risk of disability. 
Recently, the evaluation of frailty is a key target for geriatric medicine, and 
geriatricians have developed various methods for measuring this parameter and 
suggesting the physical performance indexes as a reliable surrogate of frailty. 
Surrogate frailty measures, such as the "gait speed" or the "Short Physical 
Performance Battery-SPPB" seem to be the valid tools for evaluating older 
surgery patients due to their simplicity and short administration time. We think 
that the future challenge will be their widespread use in this specific clinical 
setting.

DOI: 10.4081/monaldi.2012.118
PMID: 23614327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2013;157(17):A5189.

[Aspirin and cancer: evidence of a prophylactic effect].

[Article in Dutch]

Algra AM(1), Nortier JW.

Author information:
(1)Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum, Afd. Klinische Epidemiologie, Leiden, the 
Netherlands. annechien.algra@clneuro.ox.ac.uk

Due to increased life expectancy, the number of new patients diagnosed with 
cancer is also increasing; this requires effective and inexpensive strategies 
for preventing cancer. The concept of chemoprevention involves taking medication 
to reduce cancer risk. By re-assessing aspirin trials that were originally 
conducted to determine its effect on cardiovascular disease, it appeared that 
aspirin was associated with a reduction in the incidence of cancer as well as 
cancer-related mortality. The vascular benefits and risks associated with 
aspirin are only clinically relevant in the short term; its beneficial effects 
on cancer risk only become apparent after three years. Aspirin probably has a 
preventive effect on metastasis. These findings from randomised trials are 
consistent with results from methodologically rigorous observational studies. 
Until now, primary prevention in vascular disease has only proven to be 
cost-effective in certain risk groups. In future cost-effectiveness analyses, 
the beneficial effect of aspirin on cancer risk needs to be taken into account.

PMID: 23614860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. J Med Invest. 2013;60(1-2):1-14. doi: 10.2152/jmi.60.1.

Ectopic fat deposition and global cardiometabolic risk: new paradigm in 
cardiovascular medicine.

Shimabukuro M(1), Kozuka C, Taira S, Yabiku K, Dagvasumberel M, Ishida M, 
Matsumoto S, Yagi S, Fukuda D, Yamakawa K, Higa M, Soeki T, Yoshida H, Masuzaki 
H, Sata M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-Diabetes Medicine, the University of Tokushima Graduate 
School of Health Biosciences, Tokushima, Japan.

The obesity epidemic is a global public health concern that increases the 
likelihood of morbidity and mortality of metabolic and cardiovascular disease 
(CVD) and threatens to reduce life expectancy around the world. The concept of 
the metabolic syndrome (MetS) takes into account that visceral fat plays an 
essential role in the development of metabolic and cardiovascular diseases. 
However, MetS cannot be used to assess global CVD risk but is at best one more 
modifiable CVD risk factor. Thus, global cardiometabolic risk (the global risk 
of cardiovascular disease resulting from traditional risk factors combined with 
the additional contribution of the metabolic syndrome and/or insulin resistance) 
should be considered individually. There is solid evidence supporting the notion 
that excess abdominal fat is predictive of insulin resistance and the presence 
of related metabolic abnormalities currently referred to as MetS. Despite the 
fact that abdominal obesity is a highly prevalent feature of MetS, the 
mechanisms by which abdominal obesity is causally related to MetS are not fully 
elucidated. Besides visceral fat accumulation, ectopic lipid deposition, 
especially in liver and skeletal muscle, has been implicated in the 
pathophysiology of diabetes, insulin resistance and obesity-related disorders. 
Also, ectopic fat deposition could be deteriorated in the heart components such 
as (1) circulatory and locally recruited fat, (2) intra- and extra-myocellular 
fat, (3) perivascular fat, and (4) pericardial fat. In this review, the 
contribution of ectopic lipid deposition to global cardiometabolic risk is 
reviewed and also discussed are potential underlying mechanisms including 
adipocytokine, insulin resistance and lipotoxicity.

DOI: 10.2152/jmi.60.1
PMID: 23614905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2013 Oct 1;64(2):183-9. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0b013e3182973966.

Updates of lifetime costs of care and quality-of-life estimates for HIV-infected 
persons in the United States: late versus early diagnosis and entry into care.

Farnham PG(1), Gopalappa C, Sansom SL, Hutchinson AB, Brooks JT, Weidle PJ, 
Marconi VC, Rimland D.

Author information:
(1)*Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA; †Atlanta Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Atlanta, GA ‡Emory 
University School of Medicine, Atlanta, GA; and §Emory University Rollins School 
of Public Health, Atlanta, GA.

BACKGROUND: Lifetime costs of care and quality-of-life estimates for 
HIV-infected persons depend on the disease stage at which these persons are 
diagnosed, enter care, and start antiretroviral therapy. Updated estimates were 
used to analyze the effects of late versus early diagnosis/entry on US lifetime 
care costs, quality-of-life estimates, and HIV transmissions.
METHODS: The Progression and Transmission of HIV/AIDS model was used to estimate 
discounted (3%) lifetime treatment costs ($US 2011) and quality-of-life 
variables from time of infection for cohorts of 10,000 HIV-infected index 
patients in 4 categories of CD4 count at diagnosis: (I) ≤200 cells/μL, (II) 
201-350 cells/μL, (III) 351-500 cells/μL, and (IV) 501-900 cells/μL. It is 
assumed that index patient diagnoses were uniformly distributed across the CD4 
count range in each category and that patients entered care at the time of 
diagnosis, remained in care, and were eligible to initiate antiretroviral 
therapy at a CD4 count of 500 cells/μL. Lifetime transmissions of the index 
patients were also estimated.
RESULTS: Discounted average lifetime costs varied from $253,000 for category I 
index patients to $402,000 for category IV patients. Discounted quality-adjusted 
life years lost decreased from 7.95 to 4.45 across these categories, additional 
years of life expectancy increased from 30.8 to 38.1, and lifetime transmissions 
decreased from 1.40 to 0.72.
CONCLUSIONS: Early diagnosis and treatment of HIV infection increases lifetime 
costs but improves length and quality of life and reduces the number of new 
infections transmitted by nearly 50%.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0b013e3182973966
PMID: 23615000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. J Psychiatr Res. 2013 Aug;47(8):1044-8. doi:
10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.03.016.  Epub 2013 Apr 21.

Increased advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) assessed by skin 
autofluorescence in schizophrenia.

Kouidrat Y(1), Amad A, Desailloud R, Diouf M, Fertout E, Scoury D, Lalau JD, 
Loas G.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Endocrinology, CHU d'Amiens, University of Picardie, 
Amiens, France.

BACKGROUND: Oxidative stress has been intensively studied as a key biochemical 
system in the pathophysiology of schizophrenia. However, little is known about 
the implication of oxidative stress in the development of physical illnesses in 
schizophrenia patients, who are characterized by high cardiovascular risk and 
decreased life expectancy. Advanced glycation end-products (AGEs) are considered 
to be markers of oxidative stress and are linked to the development of 
atherosclerosis.
METHODS: We investigated AGE levels determined by a noninvasive skin 
autofluorescence (skin AF) method (AGE-Reader™) in schizophrenia patients. Skin 
AF was assessed in 55 schizophrenia patients without diabetes or renal disease 
and 55 healthy controls matched for age, gender and smoking status. Nineteen of 
the 55 schizophrenia patients had a severe form of the disease (Kraepelinian 
schizophrenia).
RESULTS: Skin AF was significantly higher in schizophrenia patients compared to 
controls (2.46 ± 0.52 and 1.90 ± 0.21, respectively, p < 0.0001). Kraepelinian 
schizophrenia patients had significantly higher skin AF than non-Kraepelinian 
schizophrenia patients (p = 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to demonstrate high AGE levels assessed by 
a noninvasive method in schizophrenia patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpsychires.2013.03.016
PMID: 23615188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Nanoscale. 2013 Jun 7;5(11):4855-63. doi: 10.1039/c3nr00813d. Epub 2013 Apr
24.

Single-molecule analysis of the major glycopolymers of pathogenic and 
non-pathogenic yeast cells.

El-Kirat-Chatel S(1), Beaussart A, Alsteens D, Sarazin A, Jouault T, Dufrêne YF.

Author information:
(1)Université catholique de Louvain, Institute of Life Sciences, Croix du Sud, 
1, bte L7.04.01., B-1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.

Most microbes are coated with carbohydrates that show remarkable structural 
variability and play a crucial role in mediating microbial-host interactions. 
Understanding the functions of cell wall glycoconjugates requires detailed 
knowledge of their molecular organization, diversity and heterogeneity. Here we 
use atomic force microscopy (AFM) with tips bearing specific probes (lectins, 
antibodies) to analyze the major glycopolymers of pathogenic and non-pathogenic 
yeast cells at molecular resolution. We show that non-ubiquitous β-1,2-mannans 
are largely exposed on the surface of native cells from pathogenic Candida 
albicans and C. glabrata, the former species displaying the highest glycopolymer 
density and extensions. We also find that chitin, a major component of the inner 
layer of the yeast cell wall, is much more abundant in C. albicans. These 
differences in molecular properties, further supported by flow cytometry 
measurements, may play an important role in strengthening cell wall mechanics 
and immune interactions. This study demonstrates that single-molecule AFM, 
combined with immunological and fluorescence methods, is a powerful platform in 
fungal glycobiology for probing the density, distribution and extension of 
specific cell wall glycoconjugates. In nanomedicine, we anticipate that this new 
form of AFM-based nanoglycobiology will contribute to the development of 
sugar-based drugs, immunotherapeutics, vaccines and diagnostics.

DOI: 10.1039/c3nr00813d
PMID: 23615555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Jul;31(7):589-604. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0035-8.

A comparative analysis of models used to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
dabigatran versus warfarin for the prevention of stroke in atrial fibrillation.

Sorensen SV(1), Peng S, Monz BU, Bradley-Kennedy C, Kansal AR.

Author information:
(1)United BioSource Corporation, 7101 Wisconsin Avenue, Suite 600, Bethesda, MD 
20814, USA. Sonja.sorensen@unitedbiosource.com

BACKGROUND: A number of models exploring the cost-effectiveness of dabigatran 
versus warfarin for stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation have been 
published. These studies found dabigatran was generally cost-effective, 
considering well-accepted willingness-to-pay thresholds, but estimates of the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) varied, even in the same setting. 
The objective of this study was to compare the findings of the published 
economic models and identify key model features accounting for differences.
METHODS: All aspects of the economic evaluations were reviewed: model approach, 
inputs, and assumptions. A previously published model served as the reference 
model for comparisons of the selected studies in the US and UK settings. The 
reference model was adapted, wherever possible, using the inputs and key 
assumptions from each of the other published studies to determine if results 
could be reproduced in the reference model. Incremental total costs, incremental 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and ICERs (cost per QALY) were compared 
between each study and the corresponding adapted reference model. The impact of 
each modified variable or assumption was tracked separately.
RESULTS: The selected studies were in the US setting (2), the Canadian setting 
(1), and the UK setting (2). All models used the Randomized Evaluation of 
Long-Term Anticoagulation study (RE-LY) as the main source for clinical inputs, 
and all used a Markov modelling approach, except one that used discrete event 
simulation. The reference model had been published in the Canadian and UK 
settings. In the UK setting, the reference model reported an ICER of UK£4,831, 
whereas the other UK-based analysis reported an ICER of UK£23,082. When the 
reference model was modified to use the same population characteristics, cost 
inputs, and utility inputs, it reproduced the results of the other model (ICER 
UK£25,518) reasonably well. Key reasons for the different results between the 
two models were the assumptions on the event utility decrement and costs 
associated with intracranial haemorrhage, as well as the costs of warfarin 
monitoring and disability following events. In the US setting, the reference 
model produced an ICER similar to the ICER from one of the US models 
(US$15,115/QALY versus US$12,386/QALY, respectively) when modelling assumptions 
and input values were transferred into the reference model. Key differences in 
results could be explained by the population characteristics (age and baseline 
stroke risk), utility assigned to events and specific treatments, adjustment of 
stroke and intracranial haemorrhage risk over time, and treatment 
discontinuation and switching. The reference model was able to replicate the 
QALY results, but not the cost results, reported by the other US 
cost-effectiveness analysis. The parameters driving the QALY results were 
utility values by disability levels as well as utilities assigned to specific 
treatments, and event and background mortality rates.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite differences in model designs and structures, it was mostly 
possible to replicate the results published by different authors and identify 
variables responsible for differences between ICERs using a reference model 
approach. This enables a better interpretation of published findings by focusing 
attention on the assumptions underlying the key model features accounting for 
differences.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0035-8
PMCID: PMC3691493
PMID: 23615895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. J Biol Chem. 2013 Jun 7;288(23):16529-16537. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.457689.
Epub  2013 Apr 24.

Engineering a monomeric Fc domain modality by N-glycosylation for the half-life 
extension of biotherapeutics.

Ishino T(1), Wang M(2), Mosyak L(3), Tam A(3), Duan W(3), Svenson K(3), Joyce 
A(2), O'Hara DM(2), Lin L(3), Somers WS(3), Kriz R(3).

Author information:
(1)From Global Biotherapeutics Technologies, Pfizer Inc., Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02140. Electronic address: tetsuya.ishino@pfizer.com.
(2)Pharmacokinetics, Dynamics and Metabolism, Pfizer Inc., Andover, 
Massachusetts 01810.
(3)From Global Biotherapeutics Technologies, Pfizer Inc., Cambridge, 
Massachusetts 02140.

Human IgG is a bivalent molecule that has two identical Fab domains connected by 
a dimeric Fc domain. For therapeutic purposes, however, the bivalency of IgG and 
Fc fusion proteins could cause undesired properties. We therefore engineered the 
conversion of the natural dimeric Fc domain to a highly soluble monomer by 
introducing two Asn-linked glycans onto the hydrophobic C(H)3-C(H)3 dimer 
interface. The monomeric Fc (monoFc) maintained the binding affinity for 
neonatal Fc receptor (FcRn) in a pH-dependent manner. We solved the crystal 
structure of monoFc, which explains how the carbohydrates can stabilize the 
protein surface and provides the rationale for molecular recognition between 
monoFc and FcRn. The monoFc prolonged the in vivo half-life of an antibody Fab 
domain, and a tandem repeat of the monoFc further prolonged the half-life. This 
monoFc modality can be used to improve the pharmacokinetics of monomeric 
therapeutic proteins with an option to modulate the degree of half-life 
extension.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.457689
PMCID: PMC3675588
PMID: 23615911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 May;15(4):353-62. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0478-z.
Epub  2013 Apr 25.

Cost-effectiveness of injectable disease-modifying therapies for the treatment 
of relapsing forms of multiple sclerosis in Spain.

Dembek C(1), White LA, Quach J, Szkurhan A, Rashid N, Blasco MR.

Author information:
(1)Avalere Health, 1350 Connecticut Ave, NW Suite 900, Washington, DC, 20036, 
USA, cdembek@avalerehealth.net.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of injectable disease-modifying 
therapies (DMTs) for the first-line treatment of relapsing-remitting multiple 
sclerosis (RRMS) in Spain.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
intramuscular interferon beta-1a (IM IFNβ-1a), subcutaneous interferon beta-1a 
(SC IFNβ-1a), interferon beta-1b (IFNβ-1b) and glatiramer acetate (GA) relative 
to best supportive care in a hypothetical cohort of 1,000 RRMS patients in 
Spain. The model was developed from a societal perspective with a time horizon 
of 30 years. Natural history and clinical trial data were used to model relapse 
rates and disease progression. Cost and utility data were obtained from a 
published survey of multiple sclerosis patients in Spain. The primary outcome 
measure was cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Univariate and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Compared to best supportive care, the base case cost-effectiveness was 
<euro>168,629 per QALY gained for IM IFNβ-1a, <euro>231,853 per QALY gained for 
IFNβ-1b, <euro>295,638 per QALY gained for SC IFNβ-1a, and <euro>318,818 per 
QALY gained for GA. Results were most sensitive to changes in DMT cost, utility 
values and treatment effect.
CONCLUSIONS: In our cost-effectiveness analysis of first-line injectable DMTs in 
Spain, we found IM IFNβ-1a to be more cost-effective than SC IFNβ-1a, IFNβ-1b or 
GA. Sensitivity analyses confirmed the robustness of these results.
