
DOI: 10.4161/hv.24696
PMCID: PMC3901832
PMID: 23584248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Alcohol Res Health. 2008;31(1):60-5.

Systems biology in the study of neurological disorders: focus on Alzheimer's 
disease.

Pasinetti GM(1), Hiller-Sturmhöfel S.

Author information:
(1)Center of Excellence for Research in Complementary and Alternative Medicine 
in Alzheimer's Disease in the Department of Psychiatry at the Mount Sinai School 
of Medicine in New York, New York.

Comment in
    Alcohol Res Health. 31(1):36.

Systems biology approaches may be useful for studying the mechanisms underlying 
alcohol's harmful effects on the brain. Such approaches already are used in the 
study of Alzheimer's disease (AD), a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
that, with the overall increase in life expectancy, will affect an increasing 
proportion of the population and become an increasingly serious public health 
concern. Systems biology approaches such as complementary DNA (cDNA) microarray 
analyses have helped identify several genes whose expression is altered in 
patients exhibiting the earliest stages of AD. Several of these genes are 
involved in the release of messenger molecules from the ends of nerve cells 
(i.e., in synaptic vesicle functioning), and their particular role in AD must be 
investigated further using conventional molecular biological approaches. 
Similarly, protein array analyses have identified candidate proteins that may 
play a role in the development of AD. Finally, proteomic approaches, such as 
certain mass spectrometry techniques, have been used to search for biomarkers of 
the progression from normal cognitive functioning to mild cognitive impairment 
and AD, which eventually may allow early and reliable diagnosis of the disease. 
These approaches already have yielded some candidate molecules whose validity 
and reliability as biomarkers of AD, however, still need to be confirmed.

PMCID: PMC3860441
PMID: 23584752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Age (Dordr). 2013 Dec;35(6):2503-13. doi: 10.1007/s11357-013-9529-8. Epub
2013  Apr 13.

Exceptional longevity in female Rottweiler dogs is not encumbered by investment 
in reproduction.

Kengeri SS(1), Maras AH, Suckow CL, Chiang EC, Waters DJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Exceptional Longevity Studies, Gerald P. Murphy Cancer Foundation, 
West Lafayette, IN, USA.

To better understand the potential trade-off between female reproductive 
investment and longevity in an emerging model of human healthspan, we studied 
pet dogs to determine whether intensity of reproduction (total number of 
offspring) encumbered the likelihood of exceptional longevity. This hypothesis 
was tested by collecting and analyzing lifetime medical histories, including 
complete reproductive histories, for a cohort of canine 
"centenarians"--exceptionally long-lived Rottweiler dogs that lived more than 
30% longer than the breed's average life expectancy. Reproductive intensity 
(number of litters, total number of pups) and tempo of reproductive effort (age 
at first reproduction, mean interbirth interval, age at last reproduction) in 78 
exceptionally long-lived female Rottweilers (>13 years old) were compared to a 
cohort of 97 female Rottweilers that had usual longevity (age at death 8.0-10.75 
years). We found no evidence that a mother's physiological investment in 
offspring was associated with disadvantaged longevity. Instead, similar to some 
studies in women, our data showed an inverted U-shaped trend, suggesting that 
moderate investment in reproduction may promote longevity. Late reproductive 
success, a much-studied surrogate of maternal fitness in women, was not a strong 
predictor of longevity in this canine cohort. Instead, independent of 
reproductive investment, the duration of lifetime ovary exposure was 
significantly associated with highly successful aging. Our results from 
exceptionally long-lived pet dogs provide rationale for further investigative 
efforts to understand the ovary-sensitive biological factors that promote 
healthy longevity in women and pet dogs.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-013-9529-8
PMCID: PMC3825016
PMID: 23584889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Jun;31(6):509-18. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0047-4.

Simulating lifetime outcomes associated with complications for people with type 
1 diabetes.

Lung TW(1), Clarke PM, Hayes AJ, Stevens RJ, Farmer A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Policy, Programs and Economics, School of Population 
Health, The University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC 3053, Australia. 
tom.lung@unimelb.edu.au

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to develop a discrete-time simulation 
model for people with type 1 diabetes mellitus, to estimate and compare mean 
life expectancy and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) over a lifetime between 
intensive and conventional blood glucose treatment groups.
METHODS: We synthesized evidence on type 1 diabetes patients using several 
published sources. The simulation model was based on 13 equations to estimate 
risks of events and mortality. Cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk was obtained 
from results of the DCCT (diabetes control and complications trial). Mortality 
post-CVD event was based on a study using linked administrative data on people 
with diabetes from Western Australia. Information on incidence of renal disease 
and the progression to CVD was obtained from studies in Finland and Italy. 
Lower-extremity amputation (LEA) risk was based on the type 1 diabetes Swedish 
inpatient registry, and the risk of blindness was obtained from results of a 
German-based study. Where diabetes-specific data were unavailable, information 
from other populations was used. We examine the degree and source of parameter 
uncertainty and illustrate an application of the model in estimating lifetime 
outcomes of using intensive and conventional treatments for blood glucose 
control.
RESULTS: From 15 years of age, male and female patients had an estimated life 
expectancy of 47.2 (95 % CI 35.2-59.2) and 52.7 (95 % CI 41.7-63.6) years in the 
intensive treatment group. The model produced estimates of the lifetime benefits 
of intensive treatment for blood glucose from the DCCT of 4.0 (95 % CI 1.2-6.8) 
QALYs for women and 4.6 (95 % CI 2.7-6.9) QALYs for men. Absolute risk per 1,000 
person-years for fatal CVD events was simulated to be 1.37 and 2.51 in intensive 
and conventional treatment groups, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The model incorporates diabetic complications risk data from a type 
1 diabetes population and synthesizes other type 1-specific data to estimate 
long-term outcomes of CVD, end-stage renal disease, LEA and risk of blindness, 
along with life expectancy and QALYs. External validation was carried out using 
life expectancy and absolute risk for fatal CVD events. Because of the flexible 
and transparent nature of the model, it has many potential future applications.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0047-4
PMID: 23585309 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Jun;31(6):519-31. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0054-5.

Cost effectiveness of targeted high-dose atorvastatin therapy following genotype 
testing in patients with acute coronary syndrome.

Parthan A(1), Leahy KJ, O'Sullivan AK, Iakoubova OA, Bare LA, Devlin JJ, 
Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, One Main Street, Suite 1040, Cambridge, MA 02142, USA. 
anju.parthan@optum.com

BACKGROUND: Results from the PROVE IT trial suggest that patients with acute 
coronary syndrome (ACS) treated with atorvastatin 80 mg/day (A80) have 
significantly lower rates of cardiovascular events compared with patients 
treated with pravastatin 40 mg/day (P40). In a genetic post hoc substudy of the 
PROVE IT trial, the rate of event reduction was greater in carriers of the 
Trp719Arg variant in kinesin family member 6 protein (KIF6) than in noncarriers. 
We assessed the cost effectiveness of testing for the KIF6 variant followed by 
targeted statin therapy (KIF6 Testing) versus not testing patients (No Test) and 
treating them with P40 or A80 in the USA from a payer perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed in which 2-year event rates from PROVE IT 
were extrapolated over a lifetime horizon. Costs and utilities were derived from 
published literature. All costs were in 2010 US dollars except the cost of A80, 
which was in 2012 US dollars because the generic formulation was available in 
2012. Expected costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were estimated for 
each strategy over a lifetime horizon.
RESULTS: Lifetime costs were US$31,700; US$37,100 and US$41,300 for No Test P40, 
KIF6 Testing and No Test A80 strategies, respectively. The No Test A80 strategy 
was associated with more QALYs (9.71) than the KIF6 Testing (9.69) and No Test 
P40 (9.57) strategies. No Test A80 had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of US$232,100 per QALY gained compared with KIF6 Testing. KIF6 Testing 
had an ICER of US$45,300 per QALY compared with No Test P40.
CONCLUSIONS: Testing ACS patients for KIF6 carrier status may be a 
cost-effective strategy at commonly accepted thresholds. Treating all patients 
with A80 is more expensive than treating patients on the basis of KIF6 results, 
but the modest gain in QALYs is achieved at a cost/QALY that is generally 
considered unacceptable compared with the KIF6 Testing strategy. Compared with 
treating all patients with P40, the KIF6 Testing strategy had an ICER below 
US$50,000 per QALY. The conclusions from this study are sensitive to the price 
of generic A80 and the effect on adherence of knowing KIF6 carrier status. The 
results were based on a post hoc substudy of the PROVE IT trial, which was not 
designed to test the effectiveness of KIF6 testing.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0054-5
PMID: 23585310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. PLoS Med. 2013;10(4):e1001418. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001418. Epub 2013
Apr  9.

Life expectancies of South African adults starting antiretroviral treatment: 
collaborative analysis of cohort studies.

Johnson LF(1), Mossong J, Dorrington RE, Schomaker M, Hoffmann CJ, Keiser O, Fox 
MP, Wood R, Prozesky H, Giddy J, Garone DB, Cornell M, Egger M, Boulle A; 
International Epidemiologic Databases to Evaluate AIDS Southern Africa 
Collaboration.

Collaborators: Garone DB, Chi B, Chimbetete C, Dickinson D, Eley B, Fritz C, 
Giddy J, Hoffmann C, MacPhail P, Baragwanath CH, Ndirangu J, Pestili S, Phiri S, 
Prozesky H, Technau K, van Oosterhout J, Wood R, Tutu D, Egger M, Davies MA, 
Bohlius J, Blaser N, Boulle A, Campbell L, Cornell M, Estill J, Fatzer B, Fenner 
L, Graber C, Gsponer T, Johnson L, Kaeser F, Keiser O, Maxwell N, Myer L, 
Schöni-Affolter F, Schomaker M, Wandeler G.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Infectious Disease Epidemiology and Research, University of Cape 
Town, Cape Town, South Africa. Leigh.Johnson@uct.ac.za

BACKGROUND: Few estimates exist of the life expectancy of HIV-positive adults 
receiving antiretroviral treatment (ART) in low- and middle-income countries. We 
aimed to estimate the life expectancy of patients starting ART in South Africa 
and compare it with that of HIV-negative adults.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Data were collected from six South African ART cohorts. 
Analysis was restricted to 37,740 HIV-positive adults starting ART for the first 
time. Estimates of mortality were obtained by linking patient records to the 
national population register. Relative survival models were used to estimate the 
excess mortality attributable to HIV by age, for different baseline CD4 
categories and different durations. Non-HIV mortality was estimated using a 
South African demographic model. The average life expectancy of men starting ART 
varied between 27.6 y (95% CI: 25.2-30.2) at age 20 y and 10.1 y (95% CI: 
9.3-10.8) at age 60 y, while estimates for women at the same ages were 
substantially higher, at 36.8 y (95% CI: 34.0-39.7) and 14.4 y (95% CI: 
13.3-15.3), respectively. The life expectancy of a 20-y-old woman was 43.1 y 
(95% CI: 40.1-46.0) if her baseline CD4 count was ≥ 200 cells/µl, compared to 
29.5 y (95% CI: 26.2-33.0) if her baseline CD4 count was <50 cells/µl. Life 
expectancies of patients with baseline CD4 counts ≥ 200 cells/µl were between 
70% and 86% of those in HIV-negative adults of the same age and sex, and life 
expectancies were increased by 15%-20% in patients who had survived 2 y after 
starting ART. However, the analysis was limited by a lack of mortality data at 
longer durations.
CONCLUSIONS: South African HIV-positive adults can have a near-normal life 
expectancy, provided that they start ART before their CD4 count drops below 200 
cells/µl. These findings demonstrate that the near-normal life expectancies of 
HIV-positive individuals receiving ART in high-income countries can apply to 
low- and middle-income countries as well. Please see later in the article for 
the Editors' Summary.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001418
PMCID: PMC3621664
PMID: 23585736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


788. PLoS One. 2013 Apr 9;8(4):e61170. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061170. Print
2013.

Life cycle-dependent cytoskeletal modifications in Plasmodium falciparum 
infected erythrocytes.

Shi H(1), Liu Z, Li A, Yin J, Chong AG, Tan KS, Zhang Y, Lim CT.

Author information:
(1)Nano Biomechanics Laboratory, Department of Bioengineering, National 
University of Singapore, Singapore, Singapore.

Plasmodium falciparum infection of human erythrocytes is known to result in the 
modification of the host cell cytoskeleton by parasite-coded proteins. However, 
such modifications and corresponding implications in malaria pathogenesis have 
not been fully explored. Here, we probed the gradual modification of infected 
erythrocyte cytoskeleton with advancing stages of infection using atomic force 
microscopy (AFM). We reported a novel strategy to derive accurate and 
quantitative information on the knob structures and their connections with the 
spectrin network by performing AFM-based imaging analysis of the cytoplasmic 
surface of infected erythrocytes. Significant changes on the red cell 
cytoskeleton were observed from the expansion of spectrin network mesh size, 
extension of spectrin tetramers and the decrease of spectrin abundance with 
advancing stages of infection. The spectrin network appeared to aggregate around 
knobs but also appeared sparser at non-knob areas as the parasite matured. This 
dramatic modification of the erythrocyte skeleton during the advancing stage of 
malaria infection could contribute to the loss of deformability of the infected 
erythrocyte.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0061170
PMCID: PMC3621960
PMID: 23585879 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


789. Public Health Nurs. 2013 May;30(3):183-92. doi: 10.1111/phn.12005. Epub 2012
Oct  11.

Impact of demographic change, socioeconomics, and health care resources on life 
expectancy in Cambodia, Laos, and Myanmar.

Chan MF(1), Taylor BJ.

Author information:
(1)Alice Lee Centre for Nursing Studies, National University of Singapore, 
Singapore. nurcmf@nus.edu.sg

OBJECTIVES: Demographic and socioeconomic changes and the availability of health 
care resources were collected to examine the impacts on life expectancy in 
Cambodia, Laos, and Myanmar.
DESIGN AND SAMPLE: An ecological design collecting 29 years (1980-2008) data for 
three Southeast Asian countries.
MEASURES: Life expectancy, demographics, socioeconomic status, and health care 
resources were collected.
RESULTS: The structural equation model indicates that more available health care 
resources and socioeconomic advantages were more likely to increase life 
expectancy. By contrast, demographic change was more likely to increase life 
expectancy by way of health care resources.
CONCLUSIONS: Results show that factors that had direct impacts on life 
expectancy in all three countries were socioeconomic status and health care 
resources. Demographic changes had an indirect influence on life expectancy via 
health care resources. These findings suggest that policymakers should be 
focusing on how to remove the barriers that impede access to health care 
services during economic downturns. In addition, how to increase preventive care 
for the populations that have less access to health care in communities.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/phn.12005
PMID: 23586762 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. BMC Geriatr. 2013 Apr 15;13:32. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-13-32.

Assessment of vaccine candidates for persons aged 50 and older: a review.

Eilers R(1), Krabbe PF, van Essen TG, Suijkerbuijk A, van Lier A, de Melker HE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of Groningen, Academic Medical Center 
Groningen, P,O, Box 30,001, Groningen 9700 RB, The Netherlands. 
renske.eilers@rivm.nl

BACKGROUND: The increasing life expectancy in most European countries has 
resulted in growth of the population 50 and older. This population is more 
susceptible to infectious diseases because of immunosenescence, co-morbidity and 
general frailty. Thus, to promote healthy aging, vaccination against 
vaccine-preventable-diseases could be one strategy. In addition to its possible 
individual benefits, vaccination may also yield social benefits, such as a lower 
overall cost of healthcare. Most European countries, however, offer only 
influenza vaccine although vaccines for pneumococcal disease, herpes zoster, 
pertussis, and hepatitis A are also available. Our aim is to review the 
knowledge of these vaccines for persons aged 50 and older and explore the 
arguments for expanding current vaccination programmes beyond just influenza.
METHODS: The evaluation model of Kimman et al. was used to assess herpes zoster, 
pneumococcal disease, pertussis and hepatitis A in terms of four domains: 
pathogen, vaccine, disease outcomes and cost-effectiveness. The sources were 
Dutch surveillance systems, seroprevalence studies and the international 
literature.
RESULTS: Herpes zoster, pneumococcal disease and pertussis are prevalent among 
persons aged 50 and older. Vaccines vary in effectiveness and have mild and 
self-limiting side effects. Vaccination against pneumococcal disease and 
pertussis causes adaptation of the responsible pathogen. For pertussis and 
hepatitis A, the vaccine is not registered specifically for the elderly 
population. Vaccination against herpes zoster and pertussis could improve 
quality of life, while vaccination against pneumococcal disease and hepatitis A 
prevents mortality. However, only vaccination against herpes zoster and 
pneumococcal disease appear to be cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Vaccination can improve the health of the elderly population. As 
our review shows, however, the data are too incomplete to accurately judge its 
potential impact. More research is needed to determine how vaccination can most 
effectively improve the health of the growing population 50 years and older.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-13-32
PMCID: PMC3668232
PMID: 23586926 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Clin Radiol. 2013 Aug;68(8):776-9. doi: 10.1016/j.crad.2013.02.009. Epub
2013  Apr 12.

Health service cost associated with percutaneous vertebroplasty in patients with 
spinal metastases.

Chew C(1), O'Dwyer PJ, Edwards R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Stobhill Hospital, Glasgow, UK. chewszewan@aol.com

AIMS: To ascertain prospectively the health service cost of vertebroplasty in a 
cohort of consecutive patients with spinal metastases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Percutaneous vertebroplasty was performed under conscious 
sedation and local anaesthetic in the Interventional Suite with fluoroscopic 
guidance. Data were collected prospectively on standard forms. Quality of life 
questionnaires (EQ-5D) were filled out pre-, 6 weeks, and at 6 months 
post-vertebroplasty.
RESULTS: The majority of the procedures were performed on an outpatient basis 
(8/11). The median duration of the procedure was 60 min (range 40-80 min) with a 
further 60 min spent in the recovery room (range 10-230 min). Personnel involved 
included a consultant radiologist, a radiology registrar, four nurses, and two 
radiographers. The average cost of vertebroplasty per patient, including 
consumables, capital equipment, hotel/clinic costs, and staffing, was £2213.25 
(95% CI £729.95). The mean EQ-5D utility scores increased from 0.421 
pre-treatment to 0.5979 post-treatment (p = 0.047). The visual analogue scale 
(VAS) of perceived health improved from a mean of 41.88 to 63.75 (p = 0.00537).
CONCLUSION: Health service costs for percutaneous vertebroplasty in patients 
with spinal metastases is significantly lower than previously estimated and is 
in keeping with that of other palliative radiological procedures.

Copyright © 2013 The Royal College of Radiologists. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crad.2013.02.009
PMID: 23587476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Vaccine. 2013 Jun 10;31(26):2839-47. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.03.047.
Epub  2013 Apr 12.

Cost-utility analysis of 10- and 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccines: 
protection at what price in the Thai context?

Kulpeng W(1), Leelahavarong P, Rattanavipapong W, Sornsrivichai V, Baggett HC, 
Meeyai A, Punpanich W, Teerawattananon Y.

Author information:
(1)Health Intervention and Technology Assessment Program (HITAP), 6th Floor, 6th 
Building, Department of Health, Ministry of Public Health, Tiwanon Rd., Muang, 
Nonthaburi 11000, Thailand. wantanee.k@hitap.net

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to evaluate the costs and outcomes of offering the 
10-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV10) and 13-valent pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine (PCV13) in Thailand compared to the current situation of no 
PCV vaccination.
METHODS: Two vaccination schedules were considered: two-dose primary series plus 
a booster dose (2+1) and three-dose primary series plus a booster dose (3+1). A 
cost-utility analysis was conducted using a societal perspective. A Markov 
simulation model was used to estimate the relevant costs and health outcomes for 
a lifetime horizon. Costs were collected and values were calculated for the year 
2010. The results were reported as incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) 
in Thai Baht (THB) per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gained, with future 
costs and outcomes being discounted at 3% per annum. One-way sensitivity 
analysis and probabilistic sensitivity analysis using a Monte Carlo simulation 
were performed to assess parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: Under the base case-scenario of 2+1 dose schedule and a five-year 
protection, without indirect vaccine effects, the ICER for PCV10 and PCV13 were 
THB 1,368,072 and THB 1,490,305 per QALY gained, respectively. With indirect 
vaccine effects, the ICER of PCV10 was THB 519,399, and for PCV13 was THB 
527,378. The model was sensitive to discount rate, the change in duration of 
vaccine protection and the incidence of pneumonia for all age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: At current prices, PCV10 and PCV13 are not cost-effective in 
Thailand. Inclusion of indirect vaccine effects substantially reduced the ICERs 
for both vaccines, but did not result in cost effectiveness.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.03.047
PMCID: PMC4667720
PMID: 23588084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Vaccine. 2013 Jun 7;31(25):2762-71. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.03.052. Epub
 2013 Apr 13.

Economic evaluation of vaccination programme of 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccine to the birth cohort in Japan.

Hoshi SL(1), Kondo M, Okubo I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Care Policy and Health Economics, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1, Tennoudai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 3058577, Japan. 
hoshi@hcs.tsukuba.ac.jp

Japan is now preparing to incorporate PCV-7 into the national childhood 
immunisation programme. Our recently published economic evaluation of using 
PCV-7 to the birth cohort suggests that the cost to gain one QALY is lower than 
the WHO's cost-effectiveness criterion for intervention. However, many countries 
have started to introduce PCV-13 into their national immunisation schedule 
replacing PCV-7 for preventing pneumococcal diseases among young children. These 
raise the need to appraise the 'value for money' of replacing PCV-7 with PCV-13 
vaccination programme in Japan. We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis with 
Markov model and calculated incremental cost effectiveness ratios (ICERs). Our 
base-case analyses, which assumed both PCVs have no net indirect effect and set 
the cost of PCV-7/PCV-13 per shot at ¥10,000 (US$125)/¥13,000 (US$163). The 
results show that in Base-case A (assumed PCV-13 has no additional protection 
against AOM compared to PCV-7), replacing PCV-7 with PCV-13 will cost 
¥37,722,901 (US$471,536) or ¥35,584,455 (US$444,850) per QALY when the 
caregiver's productivity loss is not included or is included, respectively. 
While in Base-case B (assumed PCV-13 has additional protection against AOM 
compared to PCV-7), ¥343,830 (US$4298) per QALY or more QALY is gained by saving 
money without or with caregiver's productivity loss, respectively. We also find 
that, in Base-case B if cost per PCV-13 shot is equal to or less than that 
¥17,000, then a PCV-13 vaccination programme offered to the birth cohort in 
Japan is likely to be a socially acceptable option compared to the current PCV-7 
vaccination programme. Furthermore, if cost per PCV-13 shot is equal to or less 
than ¥12,000, replacing PCV-7 with PCV-13 will save money and gain more QALYs. 
While in Base-case A, the replacement can only be socially acceptable if cost 
per PCV-13 shot is equal to or less than ¥11,000.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.03.052
PMID: 23588088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Sex Transm Dis. 2013 May;40(5):366-71. doi: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e318284e544.

The cost-effectiveness of screening men who have sex with men for rectal 
chlamydial and gonococcal infection to prevent HIV Infection.

Chesson HW(1), Bernstein KT, Gift TL, Marcus JL, Pipkin S, Kent CK.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 30333, USA.

BACKGROUND: Men who have sex with men (MSM) who have a current or recent history 
of rectal Chlamydia trachomatis (CT) and Neisseria gonorrhoeae (GC) infection 
are at greater risk for HIV than MSM with no history of rectal infection. 
Screening and treating MSM for rectal CT/GC infection may help reduce any 
increased biological susceptibility to HIV infection.
METHODS: We used 2 versions of a Markov state-transition model to examine the 
impact and cost-effectiveness of screening MSM for rectal CT/GC infection in San 
Francisco: a static version that included only the benefits to those screened 
and a dynamic version that accounted for population-level impacts of screening. 
HIV prevention through reduced susceptibility to HIV was the only potential 
benefit of rectal CT/GC screening that we included in our analysis. Parameter 
values were based on San Francisco program data and the literature.
RESULTS: In the base case, the cost per quality-adjusted life year gained 
through screening MSM for rectal CT/GC infection was $16,300 in the static 
version of the model. In the dynamic model, the cost per quality-adjusted life 
year gained was less than $0, meaning that rectal screening was cost-saving. The 
impact of rectal CT/GC infection on the risk of HIV acquisition was the most 
influential model parameter.
CONCLUSIONS: Although more information is needed regarding the impact of rectal 
CT/GC screening on HIV incidence, rectal CT/GC screening of MSM can potentially 
be a cost-effective, scalable intervention targeted to at-risk MSM in certain 
urban settings such as San Francisco.

DOI: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e318284e544
PMCID: PMC6745689
PMID: 23588125 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Arq Neuropsiquiatr. 2013 Apr;71(4):244-8. doi: 10.1590/0004-282x20130009.

Comparison of functional electrical stimulation associated with kinesiotherapy 
and kinesiotherapy alone in patients with hemiparesis during the subacute phase 
of ischemic cerebrovascular accident.

Modesto PC(1), Pinto FC.

Author information:
(1)Hospital do Servidor Público Estadual (IAMSPE-SP), São Paulo SP, Brazil. 
pa.modesto@uol.com.br

OBJECTIVE: To compare the functional electrical stimulation associated with 
functional kinesiotherapy alone in patients after ischemic cerebrovascular 
accident.
METHODS: The study included 20 patients who were divided into two groups: Group 
I (GI): functional electrical stimulation plus functional kinesiotherapy and 
Group II (GII): functional kinesiotherapy. We evaluated active and passive range 
of motion, in knee flexion and extension muscle strength, activities of daily 
living and quality of life. The evaluations were conducted in the pretreatment 
period, after 10 sessions and after 20 physical therapy sessions.
RESULTS: There was a significant improvement in all variables studied for both 
groups. However, significant improvements for the sub-items functional capacity 
and social aspects were seen only in the patients treated with associated 
functional electrical stimulation and kinesiotherapy.
CONCLUSION: Although both groups of patients improved with the treatment, the 
association of functional electrical stimulation and kinesiotherapy showed 
superiority in two quality of life items, in the sub-items functional capacity 
and social aspects.

DOI: 10.1590/0004-282x20130009
PMID: 23588286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. J Gen Intern Med. 2013 Oct;28(10):1294-301. doi: 10.1007/s11606-013-2417-1.
Epub  2013 Apr 16.

Portfolios of biomedical HIV interventions in South Africa: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Long EF(1), Stavert RR.

Author information:
(1)Yale School of Management, 135 Prospect Street, New Haven, CT, 06520, USA, 
elisa.long@yale.edu.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2013 Oct;28(10):1350.

BACKGROUND: Recent clinical trials of male circumcision, oral pre-exposure 
prophylaxis (PrEP), and a vaginal microbicide gel have shown partial 
effectiveness at reducing HIV transmission, stimulating interest in implementing 
portfolios of biomedical prevention programs.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of combination 
biomedical HIV prevention and treatment scale-up in South Africa, given 
uncertainty in program effectiveness.
DESIGN: Dynamic HIV transmission and disease progression model with Monte Carlo 
simulation and cost-effectiveness analysis.
PARTICIPANTS: Men and women aged 15 to 49 years in South Africa.
INTERVENTIONS: HIV screening and counseling, antiretroviral therapy (ART), male 
circumcision, PrEP, microbicide, and select combinations.
MAIN MEASURES: HIV incidence, prevalence, discounted costs, discounted 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
KEY RESULTS: Providing half of all uninfected persons with PrEP averts 28 % of 
future HIV infections for $9,000/QALY gained, but the affordability of such a 
program is questionable. Given limited resources, annual HIV screening and ART 
utilization by 75 % of eligible infected persons could avert one-third of new 
HIV infections, for approximately $1,000/QALY gained. Male circumcision is more 
cost-effective, but disproportionately benefits men. A comprehensive portfolio 
of expanded screening, ART, male circumcision, microbicides, and PrEP could 
avert 62 % of new HIV infections, reducing HIV prevalence from a projected 14 % 
to 10 % after 10 years. This strategy doubles treatment initiation and adds 31 
million QALYs to the population. Despite uncertainty in program effectiveness, a 
comprehensive portfolio costs less than $10,000/QALY gained in 33 % of 
simulation iterations and less than $30,000/QALY gained in 90 % of iterations, 
assuming an annual microbicide cost of $100.
CONCLUSIONS: A portfolio of modestly-effective biomedical HIV prevention 
programs, including male circumcision, vaginal microbicides, and oral PrEP, 
could substantially reduce HIV incidence and prevalence in South Africa and be 
likely cost-effective. Given limited resources, PrEP is the least cost-effective 
intervention of those considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-013-2417-1
PMCID: PMC3785647
PMID: 23588668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Hu Li Za Zhi. 2013 Apr;60(2):24-31. doi: 10.6224/JN.60.2.24.

[Drug safeguards to ensure the ambulatory medication safety of elderly people].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Yeh ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Oriental Institute of Technology, Taiwan, ROC. 
fk002@mail.oit.edu.tw

Medication safety is a primary patient safety goal. Medication safety addresses 
a comprehensive process that includes prescription issuance, medication 
dispensing, administration, and patient consumption. The application of mobile 
communication technology to healthcare products and to the extension of 
medication safety beyond the hospital into daily life are important trends. The 
elderly are a high risk group for adverse drug events due to age and higher 
incidences of chronic disease, multiple medication use, and improper medication 
behavior. Drug safeguards delivered through mobile services can enhance the 
medication safety of elders. Such services provide an education, care giving, 
and response link among institutions, homes, and the community, making it easier 
to integrate medication safety technology into daily life.

Publisher: TITLE: 用藥安全守護者—高齡者居家用藥安全的照護機制
用藥安全是病人安全首要目標，完整的用藥安全防護應始於處方、調劑、給藥，直到個人正確用藥。運用行動通訊科技於健康照護產品，輔助醫療團隊將用藥安全的關注自醫院延伸至個人日常生活是重要發展趨勢。高齡者因老化、慢性病問題，普遍長期同時服用多種處方藥且常發生多種不當用藥行為，為藥物不良反應高危險群。為確保高齡者用藥安全，研發用藥安全守護者提供行動應用服務，從醫療機構、居家與社區在用藥安全方面扮演指導者（educator）、照護者（caregiver）、提醒者（reminder）與監測者（detector）的角色，讓高齡者能輕鬆將用藥安全守護科技融入生活當中。

DOI: 10.6224/JN.60.2.24
PMID: 23588691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Cell Biol. 2013 Apr 15;201(2):177-89. doi: 10.1083/jcb.201301130.

Panta rhei: the APC/C at steady state.

Primorac I(1), Musacchio A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanistic Cell Biology, Max Planck Institute of Molecular 
Physiology, 44227 Dortmund, Germany.

The anaphase-promoting complex or cyclosome (APC/C) is a conserved, multisubunit 
E3 ubiquitin (Ub) ligase that is active both in dividing and in postmitotic 
cells. Its contributions to life are especially well studied in the domain of 
cell division, in which the APC/C lies at the epicenter of a regulatory network 
that controls the directionality and timing of cell cycle events. Biochemical 
and structural work is shedding light on the overall organization of APC/C 
subunits and on the mechanism of substrate recognition and Ub chain initiation 
and extension as well as on the molecular mechanisms of a checkpoint that seizes 
control of APC/C activity during mitosis. Here, we review how these recent 
advancements are modifying our understanding of the APC/C.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.201301130
PMCID: PMC3628523
PMID: 23589490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Physiol Rev. 2013 Apr;93(2):571-98. doi: 10.1152/physrev.00006.2012.

Somatotropic signaling: trade-offs between growth, reproductive development, and 
longevity.

Bartke A(1), Sun LY, Longo V.

Author information:
(1)Southern Illinois University School of Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Geriatric Research, Springfield, Illinois 62703, USA. 
abartke@siumed.edu

Growth hormone (GH) is a key determinant of postnatal growth and plays an 
important role in the control of metabolism and body composition. Surprisingly, 
deficiency in GH signaling delays aging and remarkably extends longevity in 
laboratory mice. In GH-deficient and GH-resistant animals, the "healthspan" is 
also extended with delays in cognitive decline and in the onset of age-related 
disease. The role of hormones homologous to insulin-like growth factor (IGF, an 
important mediator of GH actions) in the control of aging and lifespan is 
evolutionarily conserved from worms to mammals with some homologies extending to 
unicellular yeast. The combination of reduced GH, IGF-I, and insulin signaling 
likely contributes to extended longevity in GH or GH receptor-deficient 
organisms. Diminutive body size and reduced fecundity of GH-deficient and 
GH-resistant mice can be viewed as trade-offs for extended longevity. Mechanisms 
responsible for delayed aging of GH-related mutants include enhanced stress 
resistance and xenobiotic metabolism, reduced inflammation, improved insulin 
signaling, and various metabolic adjustments. Pathological excess of GH reduces 
life expectancy in men as well as in mice, and GH resistance or deficiency 
provides protection from major age-related diseases, including diabetes and 
cancer, in both species. However, there is yet no evidence of increased 
longevity in GH-resistant or GH-deficient humans, possibly due to 
non-age-related deaths. Results obtained in GH-related mutant mice provide 
striking examples of mutations of a single gene delaying aging, reducing 
age-related disease, and extending lifespan in a mammal and providing novel 
experimental systems for the study of mechanisms of aging.

DOI: 10.1152/physrev.00006.2012
PMCID: PMC3768106
PMID: 23589828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2013 May;61(5):734-8. doi: 10.1111/jgs.12215. Epub 2013
Apr  16.

Exclusion of older adults from ongoing clinical trials about type 2 diabetes 
mellitus.

Cruz-Jentoft AJ(1), Carpena-Ruiz M, Montero-Errasquín B, Sánchez-Castellano C, 
Sánchez-García E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Hospital Universitario Ramón y Cajal, Madrid, 
Spain. alfonsojose.cruz@salud.madrid.org

Comment in
    Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2013 Dec;46(8):779-80.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the extent of exclusion of older individuals from ongoing 
clinical trials regarding type 2 diabetes mellitus.
DESIGN: Cohort study.
SETTING: World Health Organization Clinical Trials Registry Platform.
PARTICIPANTS: Using the Participation of the Elderly in Clinical Trials 
methodology, data from ongoing clinical trials on type 2 diabetes mellitus were 
extracted from the platform on July 31, 2011.
MEASUREMENTS: Proportion of trials excluding individuals using an arbitrary 
upper age limit or other exclusion criteria that might indirectly cause limited 
recruitment of older individuals. Exclusion criteria were classified as 
justified or poorly justified.
RESULTS: Of 440 trials investigating treatments for type 2 diabetes mellitus, 
289 (65.7%) excluded individuals using an arbitrary upper age limit. Such 
exclusion was significantly more common in trials with calculated sample sizes 
of less than 100 subjects (73.6% vs 59.5%; P = .002). Exclusion for comorbidity 
was present in 338 trials (76.8%); this exclusion was poorly justified in 236 
trials (53.6%). Exclusion for polypharmacy (29.5% of trials), cognitive 
impairment (18.4%), short life expectancy (8.9%), and other poorly justified 
exclusion criteria that could limit the inclusion of older individuals was also 
present. Only six trials (1.4%) were designed specifically to study older 
adults.
CONCLUSION: Despite the recommendations of international regulatory agencies, 
exclusion of older individuals from ongoing trials regarding type 2 diabetes 
mellitus is frequent--higher than reported for other age-related diseases. This 
exclusion limits the value of the evidence that clinicians use when treating 
old, frail, complex patients with diabetes mellitus.

© 2013, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2013, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.12215
PMID: 23590338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Haemophilia. 2013 Sep;19(5):668-73. doi: 10.1111/hae.12147. Epub 2013 Apr
17.

Establishing a harmonized haemophilia registry for countries with developing 
health care systems.

Alzoebie A(1), Belhani M, Eshghi P, Kupesiz AO, Ozelo M, Pompa MT, Potgieter J, 
Smith M.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Hematology & Oncology Division, Sheikh Khalifa Medical City, Abu 
Dhabi, United Arab Emirates. aalzoebie@skmc.ae

Over recent decades tremendous progress has been made in diagnosing and treating 
haemophilia and, in resource-rich countries, life expectancy of people with 
haemophilia (PWH) is now close to that of a healthy person. However, an 
estimated 70% of PWH are not diagnosed or are undertreated; the majority of whom 
live in countries with developing health care systems. In these countries, 
designated registries for people with haemophilia are often limited and 
comprehensive information on the natural history of the disease and treatment 
outcomes is lacking. Taken together, this means that planning efforts for future 
treatment and care of affected individuals is constrained in countries where it 
is most needed. Establishment of standardized national registries in these 
countries would be a step towards obtaining reliable sociodemographic and 
clinical data for an entire country. A series of consensus meetings with experts 
from widely differing countries with different health care systems took place to 
discuss concerns specific to countries with developing health care systems. As a 
result of these discussions, recommendations are made on parameters to include 
when establishing and harmonizing national registries. Such recommendations 
should enable countries with developing health care systems to establish 
standardized national haemophilia registries. Although not a primary objective, 
the recommendations should also help standardized data collation on an 
international level, enabling treatment and health care trends to be monitored 
across groups of countries and providing data for advocacy purposes. Greater 
standardization of data collation should have implications for optimizing 
resources for haemophilia care both nationally and internationally.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12147
PMID: 23590670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. J Vasc Surg. 2013 Sep;58(3):742-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.02.018. Epub 2013
Apr  13.

Report on the Hemodialysis Reliable Outflow (HeRO) experience in dialysis 
patients with central venous occlusions.

Wallace JR(1), Chaer RA, Dillavou ED.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, Pittsburgh, PA 15213, USA. 
wallacejr@upmc.edu

OBJECTIVE: The Hemodialysis Reliable Outflow (HeRO) graft (Hemosphere/CryoLife 
Inc, Eden Prairie, Minn) has provided an innovative means to obtain hemodialysis 
access for patients with severe central venous occlusive disease. The outcomes 
of this novel treatment modality in a difficult population have yet to be 
clearly established.
METHODS: A retrospective review of HeRO graft placement from June 2010 to 
January 2012 was performed. Patient hemodialysis access history, clinical 
complexity, complications, and outcomes were analyzed. Categoric data were 
described with counts and proportions, and continuous data with means, ranges 
and, when appropriate, standard deviations. Patency rates were analyzed using 
life-table analysis, and patency rate comparisons were made with a two-group 
proportion comparison calculator.
RESULTS: HeRO graft placement was attempted 21 times in 19 patients (52% women), 
with 18 of 21 (86%) placed successfully. All but one was placed in the upper 
extremity. Mean follow-up after successful placement has been 7 months (range, 
0-23 months). The primary indication for all HeRO graft placements except one 
was central vein occlusion(s) and need for arteriovenous access. Patients 
averaged 2.0 previous (failed) accesses and multiple catheters. Four HeRO grafts 
(24%), all in women, required ligation and removal for severe steal symptoms in 
the immediate postoperative period (P < .01 vs men). Three HeROs were placed 
above fistulas for rescue. All thrombosed <4 months, although the fistulas 
remained open. An infection rate of 0.5 bacteremic events per 1000 HeRO-days was 
observed. At a mean follow-up of 7 months, primary patency was 28% and secondary 
patency was 44%. The observed 12-month primary and secondary patency rates were 
11% and 32%, respectively. Secondary patency was maintained in four patients for 
a mean duration of 10 months (range, 6-18 months), with an average of 4.0 ± 2.2 
thrombectomies per catheter.
CONCLUSIONS: HeRO graft placement, when used as a last-resort measure, has been 
able to provide upper extremity access in patients who otherwise would not have 
this option. There is a high complication rate, however, including a very high 
incidence of steal in women. HeRO grafts should continue to be used as a last 
resort.

Copyright © 2013 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.02.018
PMCID: PMC3976176
PMID: 23591186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author conflict of interest: none. The editors 
and reviewers of this article have no relevant financial relationships to 
disclose per the JVS policy that requires reviewers to decline review of any 
manuscript for which they may have a conflict of interest.


803. J Vasc Surg. 2013 Sep;58(3):635-42.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.02.036. Epub
2013  Apr 13.

Fate of patients with spinal cord ischemia complicating thoracic endovascular 
aortic repair.

DeSart K(1), Scali ST, Feezor RJ, Hong M, Hess PJ Jr, Beaver TM, Huber TS, Beck 
AW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy, University of Florida 
College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Spinal cord ischemia (SCI) is a potentially devastating complication 
of thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR) that can result in varying 
degrees of short-term and permanent disability. This study was undertaken to 
describe the clinical outcomes, long-term functional impact, and influence on 
survival of SCI after TEVAR.
METHODS: A retrospective review of all TEVAR patients at the University of 
Florida from 2000 to 2011 was performed to identify individuals experiencing 
SCI, defined by any new lower extremity neurologic deficit not attributable to 
another cause. SCI was dichotomized into immediate or delayed onset, with 
immediate onset defined as SCI noted upon awakening from anesthesia, and delayed 
characterized as a period of normal function, followed by development of 
neurologic injury. Ambulatory status was determined using database query, record 
review, and phone interviews with patients and/or family. Mortality was 
estimated using life-table analysis.
RESULTS: A total of 607 TEVARs were performed for various indications, with 57 
patients (9.4%) noted to have postoperative SCI (4.3% permanent). SCI patients 
were more likely to be older (63.9 ± 15.6 vs 70.5 ± 11.2 years; P = .002) and 
have a number of comorbidities, including chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, 
hypertension, dyslipidemia, and cerebrovascular disease (P < .0001). At some 
point in their care, a cerebrospinal fluid drain was placed in 54 patients 
(95%), with 54% placed postoperatively. In-hospital mortality was 8.8% for the 
entire cohort (SCI vs no SCI; P = .45). SCI developed immediately in 12 
patients, delayed onset in 40, and indeterminate in five patients due to 
indiscriminate timing from postoperative sedation. Three patients (25%) with 
immediate SCI had measurable functional improvement (FI), whereas 28 (70%) of 
the delayed-onset patients experienced some degree of neurologic recovery (P = 
.04). Of the 34 patients with complete data available, 26 (76%) reported 
quantifiable FI, but only 13 (38%) experienced return to their preoperative 
baseline. Estimated mean (± standard error) survival for patients with and 
without SCI was 37.2 ± 4.5 and 71.6 ± 3.9 months (P < .0006), respectively. 
Patients with FI had a mean survival of 53.9 ± 5.9 months compared with 9.6 ± 
3.6 months for those without improvement (P < .0001). Survival and return of 
neurologic function were not significantly different when patients with 
preoperative and postoperative cerebrospinal fluid drains were compared.
CONCLUSIONS: The minority of patients experience complete return to baseline 
function after SCI with TEVAR, and outcomes in patients without early functional 
recovery are particularly dismal. Patients experiencing delayed SCI are more 
likely to have FI and may anticipate similar life-expectancy with neurologic 
recovery compared with patients without SCI. Timing of drain placement does not 
appear to have an impact on postdischarge FI or long-term mortality.

Copyright © 2013 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.02.036
PMCID: PMC4143904
PMID: 23591190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Eur J Surg Oncol. 2013 Jun;39(6):575-83. doi: 10.1016/j.ejso.2013.03.014.
Epub  2013 Apr 13.

Monitoring methods in the surgical arena: assumptions and potential pitfalls.

Gutman R(1), Gutman H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Brown University, Providence, RI, USA. 
rgutman@stat.brown.edu

Utilization of statistical graphical methods to detect deterioration and to 
compare performance of health providers (e.g., surgeons, surgical departments, 
centers, etc.) has been rapidly increasing. These methods rely heavily on 
assumptions that may not be applicable in all surgical scenarios. The results 
produced by those methods could have major potential impact on funding, court 
rulings, insurance rates, etc. Thus, if one wants to use these graphical 
methods, it is imperative that the methods produce highly reliable results, even 
when some of the assumptions that underlie such methods are violated. In this 
manuscript, we discuss some of the assumptions that underlie such methods. We 
examine the performance of these methods when some assumptions are violated by 
using simulations based on analyses of plausible data. Our results show that 
using current graphical methods to compare two or more health providers when the 
assumptions are not met could result in misleading conclusions. Hence, 
researchers should apply these types of graphical methods with appropriate care, 
and only after making sure that the underlying assumptions are valid or the 
methods are robust enough to those violations.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejso.2013.03.014
PMID: 23591329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Surg Oncol. 2013 May;107(6):613-8. doi: 10.1002/jso.23290. Epub 2012 Nov
28.

Estimating the adjuvant chemotherapy effect in elderly stage II and III colon 
cancer patients in an observational study.

Kim KY(1), Cha IH, Ahn JB, Kim NK, Rha SY, Chung HC, Roh JK, Shin SJ.

Author information:
(1)Oral Cancer Research Institute, Yonsei University College of Medicine, and, 
Yonsei University College of Dentistry, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

PURPOSE: Adjuvant chemotherapy has been known as a standard treatment for 
patients with resected colon cancer. However, in elderly colon cancer patients, 
the characteristics of patients are heterogeneous with regard to life expectancy 
and comorbidities. Thus, with regard to the effectiveness of adjuvant 
chemotherapy for colon cancer, it is difficult to extrapolate data of clinical 
trials from the younger into the older general population.
METHODS: Data for 382 elderly colon cancer patients were analyzed: 217 in Stage 
II and 165 in Stage III. The efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy was evaluated in 
elderly colon cancer patients after a match by the propensity score method.
RESULTS: For matched patients with Stage II colon cancer, there was no 
significant efficacy of adjuvant chemotherapy in the risk of death during all 
follow-up periods (P-value, 0.06-0.37). Though there was a tendency that the 
adjuvant chemotherapy reduces the death rate during the follow-up periods, it 
was not statistically significant. In the case of Stage III, the adjuvant 
chemotherapy was significantly effective in matched patients for 5-year (hazard 
ratio [HR], 0.69; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.30-0.90) and overall survival 
(HR, 0.56; 95% CI, 0.34-0.94).
CONCLUSIONS: Adjuvant chemotherapy for elderly patients with Stage II colon 
cancer is not effective, whereas elderly patients with Stage III with adjuvant 
chemotherapy appear to have a better survival rate in the general population.

Copyright © 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.23290
PMID: 23592499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2013 Mar;21(3):472-9. doi: 10.1002/oby.20100.

A risk adjusted cost-effectiveness analysis of alternative models of nurse 
