
DOI: 10.1016/j.crohns.2013.03.005
PMID: 23566922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Eur Urol. 2014 Jan;65(1):235-41. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2013.03.034. Epub
2013  Mar 27.

Management of localized kidney cancer: calculating cancer-specific mortality and 
competing risks of death for surgery and nonsurgical management.

Sun M(1), Becker A, Tian Z, Roghmann F, Abdollah F, Larouche A, Karakiewicz PI, 
Trinh QD.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal Health 
Center, Montreal, Canada; Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Montreal, Montreal, Canada. Electronic address: 
mcw.sun@umontreal.ca.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2013 Nov;64(5):e105-6.
    J Urol. 2014 May;191(5):1262-3.
    Eur Urol. 2015 Apr;67(4):e71.
    Eur Urol. 2015 Apr;67(4):e72.

BACKGROUND: For elderly individuals with localized renal cell carcinoma (RCC), 
surgical intervention remains the primary treatment option but may not benefit 
patients with limited life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To calculate the trade-offs between surgical excision and nonsurgical 
management (NSM) with respect to competing causes of mortality.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Relying on a cohort of Medicare 
beneficiaries, all patients with nonmetastatic node-negative T1 RCC between 1988 
and 2005 were abstracted.
INTERVENTION: All patients were treated with partial nephrectomy (PN), radical 
nephrectomy (RN), or NSM.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Cancer-specific mortality (CSM) 
and other-cause mortality (OCM) rates were modeled through competing-risks 
regression methodologies. Instrumental variable analysis was used to account for 
the potential biases associated with measured and unmeasured confounders.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: A total of 10 595 patients were identified. In 
instrumental variable analysis, patients treated with PN (hazard ratio [HR]: 
0.45; 95% confidence interval [CI], 0.24-0.83; p=0.01) or RN (HR: 0.58; 95% CI, 
0.35-0.96; p=0.03) had a significantly lower risk of CSM than those treated with 
NSM. In subanalyses restricted to patients ≥ 75 yr, the instrumental variable 
analysis failed to detect any statistically significant difference between PN 
(HR: 0.48; p=0.1) or RN (HR: 0.57; p=0.1) relative to NSM with respect to CSM. 
Similar trends were observed in T1a RCC only.
CONCLUSIONS: PN or RN is associated with a reduction of CSM among older patients 
diagnosed with localized RCC, compared with NSM. The same benefit failed to 
reach statistical significance among patients ≥ 75 yr. The harms of surgery need 
to be weighed against the marginal survival benefit for some patients.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2013.03.034
PMID: 23567066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. MAbs. 2013 May-Jun;5(3):406-17. doi: 10.4161/mabs.23941. Epub 2013 Apr 8.

Monovalent IgG4 molecules: immunoglobulin Fc mutations that result in a 
monomeric structure.

Wilkinson IC(1), Fowler SB(1), Machiesky L(2), Miller K(2), Hayes DB(2), Adib 
M(2), Her C(2), Borrok MJ(2), Tsui P(2), Burrell M(1), Corkill DJ(1), Witt S(1), 
Lowe DC(1), Webster CI(1).

Author information:
(1)MedImmune Ltd.; Department of Antibody Discovery and Protein Engineering; 
Cambridge, UK.
(2)MedImmune LLC.; Departments of Antibody Discovery and Protein Engineering and 
Analytical Biochemistry; Gaithersburg, MD USA.

Antibodies have become the fastest growing class of biological therapeutics, in 
part due to their exquisite specificity and ability to modulate protein-protein 
interactions with a high biological potency. The relatively large size and 
bivalency of antibodies, however, limits their use as therapeutics in certain 
circumstances. Antibody fragments, such as single-chain variable fragments and 
antigen binding-fragments, have emerged as viable alternatives, but without 
further modifications these monovalent formats have reduced terminal serum 
half-lives because of their small size and lack of an Fc domain, which is 
required for FcRn-mediated recycling. Using rational engineering of the IgG4 Fc 
domain to disrupt key interactions at the CH3-CH3 interface, we identified a 
number of point mutations that abolish Fc dimerization and created 
half-antibodies, a novel monovalent antibody format that retains a monomeric Fc 
domain. Introduction of these mutations into an IgG1 framework also led to the 
creation of half-antibodies. These half-antibodies were shown to be soluble, 
thermodynamically stable and monomeric, characteristics that are favorable for 
use as therapeutic proteins. Despite significantly reduced FcRn binding in 
vitro, which suggests that avidity gains in a dimeric Fc are critical to optimal 
FcRn binding, this format demonstrated an increased terminal serum half-life 
compared with that expected for most alternative antibody fragments.

DOI: 10.4161/mabs.23941
PMCID: PMC4169034
PMID: 23567207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Nat Rev Urol. 2013 May;10(5):266-74. doi: 10.1038/nrurol.2013.62. Epub 2013
Apr  9.

Active surveillance of small renal masses.

Smaldone MC(1), Corcoran AT, Uzzo RG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urologic Oncology, Department of Surgical Oncology, Fox Chase 
Cancer Center, Temple University Health System, Philadelphia, PA 19111, USA. 
marc.smaldone@fccc.edu

The increased diagnosis of small renal masses (SRMs) poses the challenge of how 
best to manage patients with tumours that are not likely to progress and cause 
death during their lifetime. Concerns regarding overdiagnosis and overtreatment 
of patients with low-risk or indolent disease has led to the introduction of 
active surveillance as an alternative to immediate intervention in select 
candidates. However, differentiating between benign or low-grade lesions and 
high-grade aggressive phenotypes is difficult. Renal biopsy, radiographic 
assessment, and clinical nomograms have been used before surgery to evaluate the 
probability of whether an SRM will exhibit characteristics of an aggressive 
cancer. SRM growth trends have been studied over periods of observation but no 
characteristics have been found to correlate with aggressive growth kinetics. 
Stratification of patients with SRMs according to risk status is crucial when 
considering whether active surveillance might be an appropriate treatment 
option. Factors that should be taken into account include comorbidities, a 
history of malignancy, pre-existing chronic kidney disease, life expectancy and 
patient preference. Standardized active surveillance protocols are currently 
lacking, and clinical trials designed to randomize patients with SRMs to receive 
either active surveillance or immediate treatment are sorely needed to address 
the existing evidence gap.

DOI: 10.1038/nrurol.2013.62
PMID: 23567498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Ann Intern Med. 2013 May 21;158(10):761-769. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-158-10-201305210-00633.

Screening for prostate cancer: a guidance statement from the Clinical Guidelines 
Committee of the American College of Physicians.

Qaseem A(1), Barry MJ(1), Denberg TD(1), Owens DK(1), Shekelle P(1); Clinical 
Guidelines Committee of the American College of Physicians.

Author information:
(1)From the American College of Physicians, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Veterans 
Affairs Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, California; Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; West Los Angeles Veterans Affairs 
Medical Center, Los Angeles, California; and Harvard Vanguard Medical 
Associates, Auburndale, Massachusetts.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2013 May 21;158(10):I-28.

DESCRIPTION: Prostate cancer is an important health problem in men. It rarely 
causes death in men younger than 50 years; most deaths associated with it occur 
in men older than 75 years. The benefits of screening with the prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) test are outweighed by the harms for most men. Prostate cancer 
never becomes clinically significant in a patient's lifetime in a considerable 
proportion of men with prostate cancer detected with the PSA test. They will 
receive no benefit and are subject to substantial harms from the treatment of 
prostate cancer. The American College of Physicians (ACP) developed this 
guidance statement for clinicians by assessing current prostate cancer screening 
guidelines developed by other organizations. ACP believes that it is more 
valuable to provide clinicians with a rigorous review of available guidelines 
rather than develop a new guideline on the same topic when several guidelines 
are available on a topic or when existing guidelines conflict. The purpose of 
this guidance statement is to critically review available guidelines to help 
guide internists and other clinicians in making decisions about screening for 
prostate cancer. The target patient population for this guidance statement is 
all adult men.
METHODS: This guidance statement is derived from an appraisal of available 
guidelines on screening for prostate cancer. Authors searched the National 
Guideline Clearinghouse to identify prostate cancer screening guidelines in the 
United States and selected 4 developed by the American College of Preventive 
Medicine, American Cancer Society, American Urological Association, and U.S. 
Preventive Services Task Force. The AGREE II (Appraisal of Guidelines, Research 
and Evaluation in Europe) instrument was used to evaluate the guidelines.
GUIDANCE STATEMENT 1: ACP recommends that clinicians inform men between the age 
of 50 and 69 years about the limited potential benefits and substantial harms of 
screening for prostate cancer. ACP recommends that clinicians base the decision 
to screen for prostate cancer using the prostate-specific antigen test on the 
risk for prostate cancer, a discussion of the benefits and harms of screening, 
the patient's general health and life expectancy, and patient preferences. ACP 
recommends that clinicians should not screen for prostate cancer using the 
prostate-specific antigen test in patients who do not express a clear preference 
for screening. GUIDANCE STATEMENT 2: ACP recommends that clinicians should not 
screen for prostate cancer using the prostate-specific antigen test in 
average-risk men under the age of 50 years, men over the age of 69 years, or men 
with a life expectancy of less than 10 to 15 years.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-158-10-201305210-00633
PMID: 23567643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2013 Mar;157(1):1-4.
doi:  10.5507/bp.2013.023. Epub 2013 Mar 25.

Multidisciplinary approach to a Marfan syndrome patient with emphasis on 
cardiovascular complications.

Santavy P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, University Hospital Olomouc, Czech Republic. 
petr.santavy@fnol.cz

BACKGROUND: Marfan syndrome (MFS) is the most common inherited disorder of 
connective tissue affecting multiple organ systems. The most life-threatening 
and life-shortening complication is aortic dissection. Without surgery, life 
expectancy of MFS patients is reduced to approximately 32 years. Early 
identification and appropriate multidisciplinary medical cooperation is 
essential.
CONCLUSION: Proper follow up, therapy and timely surgical repair lead to an 
almost normal lifespan in affected individuals.

DOI: 10.5507/bp.2013.023
PMID: 23567654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Cad Saude Publica. 2013 Apr;29(4):735-48.

[Avoidability of deaths from chronic illnesses in elderly individuals in São 
Paulo, Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Kanso S(1), Romero DE, Leite Ida C, Marques A.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Pesquisa Econômica Aplicada, Rio de Janeiro, Brasil. 
solange.kanso@gmail.com

Avoidable causes of death have become an important indicator for evaluating 
health services. Such deaths would not occur if there were adequate prevention, 
early diagnosis, and treatment and the adoption of appropriate technologies. 
This article analyzes the pattern and magnitude of avoidable causes of death for 
the principal causes of death among elderly individuals up to 74 years of age, 
by gender, in São Paulo State, Brazil. The study further estimated the impact of 
avoidable causes of death on life expectancy among the elderly, and 62.5% of the 
deaths among elderly up to 74 years in São Paulo were due to these causes. The 
principal avoidable causes of death constituted 82.6% of all avoidable deaths, 
featuring hypertensions and tobacco-associated tumors. Life expectancy at 60 
would increase by 20% if these deaths were avoided. Male excess mortality was 
observed in nearly all of the avoidable causes of death analyzed here, which 
could be related to greater exposure to risk factors and less use of health 
services by men. Prevention and health promotion measures should take these 
sharp gender differences into account.

PMID: 23568303 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Jun;31(6):471-8. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0044-7.

Trabectedin for the treatment of advanced metastatic soft tissue sarcoma: a NICE 
single technology appraisal.

Rafia R(1), Simpson E, Stevenson M, Papaioannou D.

Author information:
(1)The School of Health and Related Research-ScHARR, The University of 
Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. 
r.rafia@sheffield.ac.uk

The National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer of trabectedin (PharmaMar) to submit evidence for the clinical and 
cost effectiveness of this drug for the treatment of advanced metastatic soft 
tissue sarcoma (aMSTS), as part of the Institute's single technology appraisal 
(STA) process. The School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR) was 
commissioned to act as the Evidence Review Group (ERG). This paper provides a 
description of the company submission, the ERG review and NICE's subsequent 
decisions. The ERG produced a review of the evidence for the clinical and cost 
effectiveness of the technology contained within the manufacturer's submission 
to NICE. The ERG also independently modified the manufacturer's decision 
analytic model to examine the impact of altering some of the key assumptions. 
The main evidence was derived from a single phase II randomized controlled trial 
(RCT) conducted in liposarcoma and leiomyosarcoma only, in which the licensed 
dose of trabectedin was compared with a different dose of trabectedin. 
Additional data were also presented from three uncontrolled phase II trials. 
Supplementary studies were used to represent best supportive care (BSC). The 
median overall survival (OS) was 13.9 months for the licensed dose of 
trabectedin in the main randomized controlled trial (RCT) and ranged from 
9.2 months to 12.8 months in the other studies included. Supplementary studies 
supplied by the manufacturer, and assumed to represent BSC, had median OS of 
5.9-6.6 months. The progression-free survival (PFS) rates at 6 months for 
trabectedin were 35.5 % in the main RCT and 24.4-29 % in the other studies 
included. The PFS rates at 6 months were 8-14 % for BSC. In the manufacturer's 
original submission to NICE, the base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of trabectedin compared with BSC was approximately £44,000 per QALY 
gained. After amendment of errors identified by the ERG, the ICER reported by 
the manufacturer increased to approximately £61,000. The ERG concluded that, 
despite clarifications from the manufacturer and the revisions made to the 
model, there was still considerable uncertainty in the ICER. The NICE Appraisal 
Committee (AC) gave a negative initial recommendation, although indicated that 
trabectedin in aMSTS met the end-of-life criteria. Subsequently, the 
manufacturer submitted a patient access scheme (PAS) where any cycles beyond the 
fifth were provided at no cost by the manufacturer. This improved the ICER to 
approximately £34,000 per QALY gained. The AC gave a positive recommendation, 
subject to the implementation of the PAS.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0044-7
PMID: 23568332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2013 Apr;138(3):839-50. doi:
10.1007/s10549-013-2496-z.  Epub 2013 Apr 9.

Health economic impact of risk group selection according to ASCO-recommended 
biomarkers uPA/PAI-1 in node-negative primary breast cancer.

Jacobs VR(1), Kates RE, Kantelhardt E, Vetter M, Wuerstlein R, Fischer T, 
Schmitt M, Jaenicke F, Untch M, Thomssen C, Harbeck N.

Author information:
(1)Frauenklinik (OB/GYN), Paracelsus Medical University (PMU), Müllner Hauptstr. 
48, 5020 Salzburg, Austria. volkerjacobs@hotmail.com

Invasion factors uPA/PAI-1 are guideline-recommended (ASCO, AGO) biomarkers for 
decision support regarding adjuvant chemotherapy (CTX) in women with primary 
breast cancer. They define a high-risk group with strong benefit from adjuvant 
CTX and a low-risk group with uncertain benefit and excellent survival without 
CTX. In a target population (age > 35/N0/G2/HR+/HER2-), administration of 
adjuvant CTX is not mandatory in Germany and other countries. Based on existing 
data, this economic model was developed to determine for the first time health 
economic impact of uPA/PAI-1 testing. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) resulting from uPA/PAI-1 testing was estimated for the target population 
by Markov modeling and sensitivity analysis. Survival data, CTX-uPA/PAI-1 
interactions, and uPA/PAI-1 hazard ratios were derived from the Chemo N0 trial 
and other evidence. Incremental costs were computed from a payer's perspective 
appropriate to the German setting. Incremental effectiveness in life years (ly) 
was estimated taking into account age-adjusted life expectancy, disease-free 
survival (with/without CTX), and 2 years post-relapse survival. Sensitivity 
analysis was performed by varying residual adjuvant CTX benefit in the low-risk 
group, denoted HR_CTX(LR), in range 0.8-0.99. All patients receive adjuvant 
endocrine therapy. Test is restricted to patients willing to forgo CTX if both 
markers are below specific cut-off values and to undergo CTX otherwise. For a 
typical 55-year-old patient, comparing to an "all-CTX" strategy without the 
test, ICER (all-CTX vs. test) > <euro>50,000 if HR_CTX(LR) > 0.85, with savings 
of <euro>18,500 per low-risk patient attributable to the test. The 
cost-effectiveness of forgoing CTX is very high as HR_CTX(LR) approaches one. 
Conversely, comparing to a "no-CTX" strategy (e.g., patients who initially 
refuse CTX) without the test, the test is very cost-effective at all ages in the 
target group if high-risk patients are willing to undergo CTX: ICER (test vs. 
no-CTX) < <euro>6,000 at age 55 and even better at younger ages, remaining < 
<euro>25,000 up to age 75. The main determinants of cost utility are age and 
residual CTX benefit in low-uPA/PAI-1 patients. The uPA/PAI-1 test is 
cost-effective in the target group compared to either an "all-CTX" or a "no-CTX" 
scenario. This model thus lends health economic support to current guideline 
recommendations that uPA/PAI-1 testing is beneficial for BC patients with no 
lymph node involvement.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-013-2496-z
PMID: 23568480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Curr Urol Rep. 2013 Jun;14(3):168-73. doi: 10.1007/s11934-013-0318-9.

Response to the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force decision on prostate 
cancer screening.

Makovey I(1), Stephenson AJ, Haywood S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Urologic Oncology, Glickman Urological & Kidney Institute, 
Cleveland Clinic, 9500 Euclid Avenue, Desk Q10-1, Cleveland, OH 44195, USA.

The population-level data demonstrate that the inception of prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA) screening has lowered mortality for prostate cancer over the past 
2 decades. However, more recent evidence from randomized trials has presented 
conflicting results regarding the benefit of PSA screening for prostate cancer 
mortality. Using available data, the U.S. Preventative Services Task Force 
recently recommended against PSA screening for prostate cancer. However, 
prostate cancer continues to kill over 30,000 men annually, and as such, 
completely abandoning screening for this disease is a disservice to many 
patients. Rather, the emphasis should be on utilizing evidence-based medicine to 
reduce overdiagnosis and overtreatment through less frequent screening for 
low-risk individuals or those unlikely to benefit from screening, halting 
further screening when appropriate, and utilizing observational strategies in 
patients unlikely to suffer clinically significant effects of prostate cancer 
over their anticipated life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11934-013-0318-9
PMID: 23568623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Apr;32(4):822. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0198.

Life expectancy among non-high school graduates.

Begier B, Li W, Maduro G.

Comment in
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Apr;32(4):822.

Comment on
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2012 Aug;31(8):1803-13.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0198
PMID: 23569063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Apr;32(4):822. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0200.

Life expectancy and education: the author replies.

Olshansky SJ.

Comment on
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Apr;32(4):822.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0200
PMID: 23569064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Geriatr Orthop Surg Rehabil. 2011 May;2(3):100-4. doi:
10.1177/2151458511406267.

Excellent survivorship with the use of proximally coated tapered cementless 
stems for total hip arthroplasty in octogenarians.

Stroh DA(1), Zywiel MG, Johnson AJ, Mont MA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Joint Preservation and Replacement, Rubin Institute for Advanced 
Orthopedics, Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

The use of total hip arthroplasty (THA) continues to grow partially because of 
the increasing life expectancy of the American population. Whether to use 
cemented or cementless femoral fixation options in older patients is often 
debated. The purpose of the present study was to compare the clinical and 
radiographic outcomes after cementless THA in patients ≥80 years to younger 
patients. Clinical and radiographic data were gathered on 33 patients (35 hips) 
all 80 years or older who had undergone proximally coated cementless total hip 
arthroplasties. Outcomes were compared with a matching group for age, body mass 
index, and diagnosis, who had undergone the same procedure by the same surgeon 
at a similar time. Harris hip scores were evaluated pre- and postoperatively, 
and radiographs were reviewed for evaluation of fixation and stability. At a 
mean follow-up of 4 years, 97% of the hips (34 of 35) remained unrevised and the 
mean Harris hip score had improved by 39 points to 83 points (range, 26-100 
points). On radiographic evaluation, 91% were found to have full bony ingrowth, 
with 1 hip having osteolysis of the proximal femur. Mortality was 23% at 86 
months. Except for mortality, the outcomes and complication rates were similar 
to the younger group except that the matching group had higher final 
postoperative Harris hip scores. Proximally coated tapered cementless THA is a 
safe and efficacious method for providing good clinical outcomes with low 
revision rates in patients 80 years of age or older.

DOI: 10.1177/2151458511406267
PMCID: PMC3597313
PMID: 23569678

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: Michael A. 
Mont is a consultant for Stryker Orthopaedics and Wright Medical Technologies.


742. Geriatr Orthop Surg Rehabil. 2011 Sep;2(5-6):187-94. doi: 
10.1177/2151458511426874.

Aspects of current management of distal radius fractures in the elderly 
individuals.

Arora R(1), Gabl M, Erhart S, Schmidle G, Dallapozza C, Lutz M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma Surgery, and Sports Medicine, Medical University 
Innsbruck (MUI), Innsbruck, Austria.

Diatal radius fractures (DRFs) are typical fractures of relatively fit persons 
with osteoporotic bone who remain active into older age. Traditionally, DRFs in 
older patients have been treated with closed reduction and cast immobilization. 
Considering the increasing life expectancy of the elderly population, 
appropriate management of these fractures is of growing importance. Decision 
making for surgical or nonsurgical approach to osteoporotic DRFs is difficult. 
These decisions are often made based on the data from treatments of much younger 
patients. The current literature concerning the treatment of DRFs in the elderly 
individuals is more controversial. Some investigators have recommended open 
reduction internal fixation (ORIF) as treatment for unstable DRFs in older 
patients, while others have suggested that elderly patients should be treated 
nonsurgically even if there is an unstable fracture situation because fracture 
reduction is not associated with functional outcomes as in younger patients. 
This article reviews the different treatment options for DRFs in the elderly 
individuals reported in the recent literature.

DOI: 10.1177/2151458511426874
PMCID: PMC3609400
PMID: 23569689

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


743. Asian Pac J Trop Biomed. 2012 Jun;2(6):485-8. doi: 
10.1016/S2221-1691(12)60081-1.

Infections and inequalities: anemia in AIDS, the disadvantages of poverty.

Gonzalez L(1), Seley C, Martorano J, Garcia-Moreno I, Troncoso A.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Nutrition and Microbiology, School of Nutrition, Buenos Aires 
University.

OBJECTIVE: To study anemia in AIDS patients and its relation with socioeconomic, 
employment status and educational levels.
METHODS: A total number of 442 patients who visited the Infectious Diseases 
University Hospital in Buenos Aires, Argentina were included in the study. 
Patients were dividied into two groups, i.e. one with anemia and the other 
without anemia. Anemia epidemiology and its relationship with educational level, 
housing, job situation, monthly income, total daily caloric intake and weekly 
intake of meat were evaluated.
RESULTS: Anemia was found in 228 patients (54%). Comparing patients with or 
without anemia, a statistically significant difference was found (P<0.000 1) in 
those whose highest educational level reached was primary school, who lived in a 
precarious home, who had no stable job or were unable to work, whose income was 
less than 30 dollars per month, whose meat consumption was less than twice a 
week or received less than 8 000 calories per day.
CONCLUSIONS: The high prevalence of anemia found in poor patients with AIDS 
suggests that poverty increases the risk to suffer from this hematological 
complication. The relationship between economic development policies and AIDS is 
complex. Our results seem to point to the fact that AIDS epidemic may affect 
economic development and in turn be affected by it. If we consider that AIDS 
affects the economically active adult population, despite recent medical 
progress it usually brings about fatal consequences, especially within the 
poorest sectors of society where the disease reduces the average life 
expectancy, increases health care demand and tends to exacerbate poverty and 
iniquity.

DOI: 10.1016/S2221-1691(12)60081-1
PMCID: PMC3609321
PMID: 23569955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: We declare that 
we have no conflict of interest.


744. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2004 Sep;2 Suppl 3:S-42-5.

NCCN Senior Adult Oncology Panel report.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Oncology Program, H. Lee Moffitt Cancer Center, Research 
Institute, University of South Florida, 12902 Magnolia Drive, Tampa, FL 33612, 
USA. balducci@moffitt.usf.edu

PMID: 23570099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2013 Apr;13(2):163-5. doi: 
10.1586/erp.13.8.

Irrelevance of explicit cost-effectiveness thresholds when coverage decisions 
can be reversed.

Basu A.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.13.8
PMID: 23570425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2013 Apr;13(2):237-42. doi: 
10.1586/erp.13.5.

Cost-effectiveness of preventive interventions for depressive disorders: an 
overview.

Mihalopoulos C(1), Vos T.

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Faculty of Health, Deakin University, 221 Burwood 
Highway, Burwood, VIC 3125, Australia. cathy.mihalopoulos@deakin.edu.au

The last 7 years have seen a growing number of cost-effectiveness studies 
demonstrating that screening people for signs of depression and the subsequent 
provision of psychological therapy to prevent the onset of depressive disorder 
is a cost-effective intervention. Many of the studies have expressed outcomes 
generically, either as quality-adjusted life-years or disability-adjusted 
life-years, and reported results well below conventional thresholds of 'value 
for money.' However, such interventions are still not routinely delivered in 
many healthcare systems, suggesting a 'translational' gap between evidence and 
practice. Future research needs to better integrate comprehensive economic 
evaluation indices into study designs, such as broad assessment of costs and 
impacts, including non-health impacts, to gain an accurate insight into the 
broader economic benefits of such interventions. Furthermore, a focus on 
interventions aimed at children and adolescents, which can demonstrate impact 
into adulthood, are likely to be highly favourable, both clinically and 
economically.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.13.5
PMID: 23570434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2013 Apr;13(2):251-9. doi: 
10.1586/erp.13.12.

Review of the economic evaluations of hormonal therapy for patients with locally 
advanced prostate cancer.

Hatoum HT(1), Crawford ED, Nielsen SK, Lin SJ, Marshall DC.

Author information:
(1)Hind T Hatoum & Company, 155 N Harbor Drive, 1912, Chicago, IL 60601, USA. 
hthatoum@sbcglobal.net

Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is used as first-line therapy for locally 
advanced or metastatic prostate cancer aiming to reduce testosterone to castrate 
levels. The authors present an overview of the existing cost-effectiveness 
studies of ADT in prostate cancer. Cost-effectiveness of ADT was reviewed using 
a systematic search of the peer-reviewed literature, as well as research 
abstracts presented at various scientific and industry meetings. Most 
cost-effectiveness analyses of ADT reported results within the accepted societal 
threshold of US$50,000 cost/quality-adjusted life year needed to adopt new 
technology.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.13.12
PMID: 23570436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2013 Apr;13(2):261-70. doi: 
10.1586/erp.13.13.

Cost-effectiveness analysis comparing degarelix with leuprolide in hormonal 
therapy for patients with locally advanced prostate cancer.

Hatoum HT(1), Crawford ED, Nielsen SK, Lin SJ, Marshall DC.

Author information:
(1)Hind T Hatoum & Company, 155 N Harbor Drive, 1912, Chicago, IL 60601, USA. 
hthatoum@sbcglobal.net

Degarelix, approved in the USA in 2008, is a gonadotropin-releasing hormone 
antagonist, representing one of the latest additions to androgen deprivation 
therapy (ADT). ADT is used as first-line therapy for locally advanced or 
metastatic prostate cancer with the aim to reduce testosterone to castrate 
levels. Like other gonadotropin-releasing hormone-antagonists, degarelix 
treatment results in rapid decrease in luteinizing hormone, follicle-stimulating 
hormone and testosterone levels without the associated risk of flare. Using one 
registration trial for degarelix with leuprolide as the active control, a 
cost-effectiveness analysis with a Markov model and a 20-year time horizon found 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for degarelix to be 
US$245/quality-adjusted life years. Degarelix provides a cost-effective 
treatment for ADT among patients with locally advanced prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1586/erp.13.13
PMID: 23570437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Pharm Biol. 2013 Jul;51(7):920-4. doi: 10.3109/13880209.2013.771190. Epub
2013  Apr 9.

Role of saffron and its constituents on cancer chemoprevention.

Zhang Z(1), Wang CZ, Wen XD, Shoyama Y, Yuan CS.

Author information:
(1)Tang Center for Herbal Medicine Research, The Pritzker School of Medicine, 
University of Chicago, Chicago, IL 60637, USA.

CONTEXT: Cancer dramatically impacts human life expectancy and quality of life. 
Natural substances from vegetables, herbs and spices could be beneficial in the 
prevention or treatment of a variety of cancers. Crocus sativus (Iridaceae), 
which has been used as a folk medicine for treating diseases for ages, showed 
obvious cancer chemoprevention potential.
OBJECTIVE: This article focuses on the effects of Crocus sativus and its main 
ingredients, such as crocin, on cancer therapeutics.
METHODS: We reviewed research data from saffron, a spice derived from the flower 
of Crocus sativus, and its constituents using the major databases, namely, Web 
of Science, SciFinder and PubMed.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: Saffron possesses free radical-scavenging properties and 
antitumor activities. Significant cancer chemopreventive effects have been shown 
in both in vitro and in vivo models. Based on current data, saffron and its 
ingredients could be considered as a promising candidate for clinical anticancer 
trials.

DOI: 10.3109/13880209.2013.771190
PMCID: PMC3971062
PMID: 23570520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of interest The authors declare no 
conflict of interest.


750. Ageing Res Rev. 2013 Mar;12(2):653-60. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.03.005. Epub
2013  Apr 6.

Life extension after heat shock exposure: assessing meta-analytic evidence for 
hormesis.

Lagisz M(1), Hector KL, Nakagawa S.

Author information:
(1)Gravida, National Centre for Growth and Development, Department of Zoology, 
University of Otago, P.O. Box 56, New Zealand. losialagisz@yahoo.com

Hormesis is the response of organisms to a mild stressor resulting in improved 
health and longevity. Mild heat shocks have been thought to induce hormetic 
response because they promote increased activity of heat shock proteins (HSPs), 
which may extend lifespan. Using data from 27 studies on 12 animal species, we 
performed a comparative meta-analysis to quantify the effect of heat shock 
exposure on longevity. Contrary to our expectations, heat shock did not 
measurably increase longevity in the overall meta-analysis, although we observed 
much heterogeneity among studies. Thus, we explored the relative contributions 
of different experimental variables (i.e. moderators). Higher temperatures, 
longer durations of heat shock exposure, increased shock repeat and less time 
between repeat shocks, all decreased the likelihood of a life-extending effect, 
as would be expected when a hormetic response crosses the threshold to being a 
damaging exposure. We conclude that there is limited evidence that mild heat 
stress is a universal way of promoting longevity at the whole-organism level. 
Life extension via heat-induced hormesis is likely to be constrained to a narrow 
parameter window of experimental conditions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.03.005
PMID: 23570942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Vaccine. 2013 Jun 12;31(27):2891-7. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.03.032. Epub
 2013 Apr 6.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of a pertussis vaccination programme for Japan 
considering intergenerational infection.

Itatani T(1), Shimizu S, Iwasa M, Ohkusa Y, Hayakawa K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Total Health Promotion Science, Graduate School of Medicine, 
Osaka University, 1-7 Yamadaoka, Suita, Osaka 565-0871, Japan. 
itatani@sahs.med.osaka-u.ac.jp

OBJECTIVE: The incidence of pertussis in adolescence and adulthood has been 
increasing, and pertussis outbreaks have occurred sporadically in Japan. The 
risk of intergenerational infection of pertussis is of concern. The aim of this 
study is to assess the cost-effectiveness of alternative vaccination programmes 
for replacing the conventional diphtheria-tetanus (DT) vaccine programme 
administered in adolescence, considering the risk of intergenerational 
infection.
METHODS: We examined the cost-effectiveness of 4 pertussis vaccination 
programmes: (1) one-time adolescent DT vaccination (DT); (2) one-time adolescent 
DT-acellular pertussis (DTaP) vaccination; (3) one-time adolescent DTaP with 
decennial booster (DTaP+booster); and (4) one-time adolescent DTaP with 
additional vaccination targeted at parents with infants (additional DTaP for 
parents). We adapted a state-transition Markov model to estimate the costs and 
effectiveness of vaccination in the adolescent and adult cohorts and then 
considered intergenerational infection from adolescents/adults to infants. We 
assumed a societal perspective to estimate results and expressed these in terms 
of cost, life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy, benefit-cost ratio 
(BCR), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: At an incidence of 25 per 100,000, the ICERs of the DTaP and additional 
DTaP for parents strategies were 3,576,072 JPY and 240,055,273 JPY, 
respectively, when intergenerational transmission of infection was considered. 
The ICER for the DTaP+booster strategy was dominated.
MAJOR CONCLUSION: Alternative vaccination programmes are not currently 
cost-effective. If intergenerational infection considered, one-time adolescent 
DTaP vaccination is cost-effective. More accurate reports of pertussis incidence 
are required as the results of cost-effectiveness analyses of vaccination vary 
greatly depending on incidence.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.03.032
PMID: 23570987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Invest Radiol. 2013 Jun;48(6):351-8. doi: 10.1097/RLI.0b013e318285bbab.

Primary pain palliation and local tumor control in bone metastases treated with 
magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound.

Napoli A(1), Anzidei M, Marincola BC, Brachetti G, Ciolina F, Cartocci G, 
Marsecano C, Zaccagna F, Marchetti L, Cortesi E, Catalano C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Oncology and Anatomic Pathology, Policlinico Umberto 
I, Sapienza University of Rome, Viale Regina Elena, Rome, Italy. 
alessandro.napoli@uniroma1.it

OBJECTIVES: The objectives of this study were to evaluate the efficacy in pain 
management of magnetic resonance (MR)-guided focused ultrasound for the primary 
treatment of painful bone metastases and to assess its potential for local 
control of bone metastases.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a prospective, single-arm research study with 
approval from the institutional review board. Eighteen consecutive patients 
(female, 8; male, 10; mean [SD] age, 62.7 [11.5] years) with painful bone 
metastases were enrolled. The patients were examined clinically for pain 
severity and pain interference in accordance with the Brief Pain 
Inventory-Quality of Life criteria before and at each follow-up visit. Computed 
tomography and MR imaging were performed before and at 1 and 3 months after the 
magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound treatment. The nonperfused volume 
(NPV) was calculated to correlate the extension of the ablated pathological 
tissue in the responder and nonresponder patients.
RESULTS: No treatment-related adverse events were recorded during the study. The 
evaluation of pain palliation revealed a statistically significant difference 
between baseline and follow-up values for pain severity and pain interference (P 
= 0.001, both evaluations). In the evaluation of local tumor control, we 
observed increased bone density with restoration of cortical borders in 5 of the 
18 patients (27.7%). In accordance with the MD Anderson criteria, complete and 
partial responses were obtained in 2 of the 18 patients (11.1%) and 4 of the 18 
patients (22.2%), respectively. Nonperfused volume values ranged between 20% and 
93%. Mean NPV values remained substantially stable after the treatment (P = 
0.08). There was no difference in the NPV values between the responder and 
nonresponder patients (46.7% [24.2%] [25%-90%] versus 45% [24.9%] [20%-93%]; P = 
0.7).
CONCLUSIONS: Magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound can be safely and 
effectively used as the primary treatment of pain palliation in patients with 
bone metastases and has a potential role in local tumor control.

DOI: 10.1097/RLI.0b013e318285bbab
PMID: 23571832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 May;15(4):341-51. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0477-0.
Epub  2013 Apr 10.

Impact and cost-effectiveness of a universal strategy to promote physical 
activity in primary care: population-based cohort study and Markov model.

Gulliford MC(1), Charlton J, Bhattarai N, Charlton C, Rudisill C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Public Health Sciences, King's College London, 
Capital House, 42 Weston St, London, SE1 3QD, UK, martin.gulliford@kcl.ac.uk.

Comment in
    Eur J Health Econ. 2015 May;16(4):451-2.
    Eur J Health Econ. 2015 May;16(4):453.

BACKGROUND: This study aimed to estimate the cost-effectiveness of a universal 
strategy to promote physical activity in primary care.
METHODS: Data were analysed for a cohort of participants from the general 
practice research database. Empirical estimates informed a Markov model that 
included five long-term conditions (diabetes, coronary heart disease, stroke, 
colorectal cancer and depression). Simulations compared an intervention 
promoting physical activity in healthy adults with standard care. The 
intervention effect on physical activity was from a meta-analysis of randomised 
trials. The annual cost of intervention, in the base case, was one family 
practice consultation per participant year. The primary outcome was net health 
benefit in quality adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: A cohort of 262,704 healthy participants entered the model. 
Intervention was associated with an increase in life years lived free from 
physical disease. With 5 years intervention the increase was 52 (95 % interval 
-11 to 115) per 1,000 participants entering the model (probability increased 
91.9 %); with 10 years intervention the increase was 102 (42-164) per 1,000 
(probability 99.7 %). Net health benefits at a threshold of £30,000 per QALY 
were 3.2 (-11.1 to 16.9) QALYs per 1,000 participants with 5 years intervention 
(probability cost-effective 64.7 %) and 5.0 (-9.5 to 19.3) with 10 years 
intervention (probability cost-effective 72.4 %).
CONCLUSIONS: A universal strategy to promote physical activity in primary care 
has the potential to increase life years lived free from physical disease. There 
is only weak evidence that a universal intervention strategy might prove 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0477-0
PMCID: PMC3996351
PMID: 23572044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Curr Treat Options Oncol. 2013 Jun;14(2):127-43. doi:
10.1007/s11864-013-0234-8.

Chronic myeloid leukemia: overview of new agents and comparative analysis.

Jain P(1), Kantarjian H, Cortes J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Leukemia, MD Anderson Cancer Center, 1515 Holcombe Boulevard, 
Unit 428, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Discovery of targeted BCR-ABL protein tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI) in the 
therapy of patients with chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) is perhaps the most 
popular success story in oncology. Imatinib is the most common TKI modality used 
as a frontline therapy in CML across the world. Lately, randomized control 
trials have shown that second-generation TKI, such as dasatinib and nilotinib, 
are superior to imatinib in terms of tolerability and efficacy. Therefore, 
second-generation TKI have been used increasingly as a first choice for patients 
with CML in chronic phase (CML-CP). Recently, ponatinib has shown significant 
efficacy against the most resistant cases (including those with T315I mutations) 
with CML. Omacetaxine is a non-TKI agent with a different mechanism of action 
and has shown benefit in resistant CML. Analysis of other novel agents and newer 
mechanisms affecting CML stem cells are under exploration. With these 
developments, the life expectancy of the majority of patients (>90 %) with 
CML-CP has become comparable to a healthy age-matched individual. The focus has 
now shifted to achieving faster and deeper responses, considering these 
parameters as a surrogate for long-term outcome and possibly cures in patients 
with CML. Adherence to therapy with TKI, proper monitoring by standardized 
techniques, and adequate use of the available therapies are established rules of 
managing patients with CML. However, even with these advances, problems of drug 
resistance, loss of response, kinase domain mutations, transformations in CML 
(accelerated and blast phase), and patient noncompliance prevail in the 
community practice. Early identification of resistant cases, feasibility for 
allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT), and enrollment in clinical 
trials with newer drugs is warranted. This article compares the efficacy and 
safety results of various TKI and non-TKI modalities and other novel 
pharmacological agents in the therapy of CML.

DOI: 10.1007/s11864-013-0234-8
PMID: 23572291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Swiss Med Wkly. 2013 Mar 25;143:w13729. doi: 10.4414/smw.2013.13729.
eCollection  2013.

Destination therapy--time for a paradigm change in heart failure therapy.

Wilhelm MJ(1), Ruschitzka F, Falk V.

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Cardiovascular Surgery, University Hospital Zurich, Switzerland. 
markus.wilhelm@usz.ch

Heart transplantation is only available for a limited number of patients with 
end-stage heart failure. Since the arrival of newer ventricular assist devices, 
mechanical circulatory support constitutes an alternative therapy for patients 
with advanced heart failure. The first-generation of pulsatile-flow devices were 
used only for bridging the sickest patients to transplantation. Frequent adverse 
events, limited durability and the patients' discomfort made them unsuitable for 
lifetime support. The second-generation continuous-flow devices were smaller, 
quieter and more durable. Survival rates of patients improved significantly. 
This led to a marked growth of device implantations, largely caused by an 
increase of lifetime support. Survival of destination therapy patients is 
somewhat inferior to the survival of bridge-to-transplant patients, in part due 
to their co-morbid conditions which limit life expectancy. A subgroup of 
patients on destination therapy with advanced, but stable heart failure and a 
low-risk profile reach short-term survival rates equal or superior to the 
survival after heart transplantation. These patients may be offered the choice 
of destination therapy versus heart transplantation. However it remains unclear 
if long-term survival, quality of life and functional status on lifetime support 
can compete with the excellent results after transplantation. A trend to 
implanting devices at earlier stages of heart failure has begun. In a current 
trial, patients with advanced, but stable heart failure are randomised to 
destination therapy versus optimal medical therapy. The results of this trial 
will be expected to more precisely determine the place of mechanical circulatory 
support in the treatment of advanced heart failure.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2013.13729
PMID: 23572384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 May;31(5):445-54. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0041-x.

The determinants of cost-effectiveness potential: an historical perspective on 
lipid-lowering therapies.

Refoios Camejo R(1), McGrath C, Miraldo M, Rutten F.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Policy & Management, Erasmus Medical Centre, Erasmus 
University, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
rodrigo.refoioscamejo@gmail.com

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 May;31(5):357-9.

BACKGROUND: The concept of cost effectiveness emerged in an attempt to link the 
prices of new healthcare technologies to the immediate value they provide, with 
payers defining the acceptable cost per unit of incremental effect over the 
alternatives available. It has been suggested that such measures allow 
developers to assess potential market profitability in an early stage of 
development, but may result in discouraging investment in efficient research if 
not used appropriately.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to identify the pattern of the factors 
determining cost effectiveness and assess the evolution of cost-effectiveness 
potential for drugs in development using lipid-lowering therapy as a case study.
METHODS: The study is based on observational clinical and market data covering a 
20-year period (from 1990 to 2010) in the UK. Real-life clinical data including 
total cholesterol laboratory test results were extracted from the Clinical 
Practice Research Datalink (CPRD) and are used to illustrate how the clinical 
effectiveness of existing standard care changed over time in patients managed in 
clinical practice. Prescription Cost Analysis (PCA) data were extracted and the 
average price of the drug mix used was computed throughout the study period. 
Using this information, the maximum clinical benefit and cost savings to be had 
were estimated for each year of the analysis using a cost-effectiveness model. 
Subsequently, the highest price a new technology providing the maximum clinical 
effectiveness possible (i.e. eliminating cardiovascular risk from high 
cholesterol levels) could achieve under current cost-effectiveness rules was 
calculated and used as a measure of the potential cost effectiveness of drugs in 
development.
RESULTS: The results in this study show that the total cholesterol values of 
patients managed in clinical practice moved steadily towards recommended 
clinical targets. Overall, the absolute potential for incremental health-related 
quality of life decreased by approximately 78 %, contracting from 0.36 QALYs to 
0.08 QALYs, which resulted in a saving of approximately 15 % of the costs 
related to cardiovascular events. The price of the drug mix used in the 
management of high blood cholesterol varied considerably across the years: the 
weighted average monthly price (in year 2007 values) started at approximately 
£14, peaked around £26 and progressively decreased to its minimum at £6.85 in 
2010. As a consequence, the maximum price allowed by current cost-effectiveness 
rules for a new technology achieving the clinical target was found to decrease 
by a minimum of 80 % between 1990 and 2010.
CONCLUSION: The analysis supports the hypothesis that the potential for cost 
effectiveness of new therapies is dependent on factors specific to each disease 
area and furthermore to sub-populations within disease areas. Despite a clinical 
need still existing, the results suggest that no more technologies are likely to 
be developed in certain disease areas based on their low perceived 
cost-effectiveness potential. This occurs without considering the immediate and 
future value of the effectiveness lost, which may depend on the technical 
difficulty of materializing future advancements, and ignores the permanent 
character of such a decision. The analysis suggests that a single, static and 
