
989. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2013 Aug;133(8):1079-87. doi: 
10.1007/s00402-013-1763-0. Epub 2013 May 7.

Single-bone intramedullary fixation of unstable both-bone diaphyseal forearm 
fractures in children leads to increased re-displacement: a multicentre 
randomised controlled trial.

Colaris J(1), Reijman M, Allema JH, Kraan G, van Winterswijk P, de Vries M, van 
de Ven C, Verhaar J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Erasmus Medical Center, Westzeedijk 361, 
Postbus 2040, 3000, CA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. j.colaris@erasmusmc.nl

INTRODUCTION: Both-bone diaphyseal forearm fractures in children can be 
stabilised without cast by a flexible intramedullary nail in both the radius and 
the ulna. Adequate results with single-bone fixation combined with a 
complementary cast are also reported. However, because those results are based 
on a selection of children, this trial investigates whether single-bone 
intramedullary fixation, compared with both-bone intramedullary fixation, 
results in similar pronation and supination in children with an unstable 
diaphyseal both-bone forearm fracture.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In four Dutch hospitals, 24 consecutive children aged <16 
years with a displaced unstable both-bone diaphyseal forearm fracture were 
randomly allocated to single-bone or both-bone intramedullary fixation. Primary 
outcome was limitation of pronation and supination 9 months after initial 
trauma. Secondary outcomes were limitation of flexion/extension of wrist/elbow, 
complication rate, operation time, cosmetics of the fractured arm, complaints in 
daily life, and assessment of radiographs.
RESULTS: Between January 2006 and August 2010, 11 children were randomised to 
single-bone fixation and 13 to both-bone fixation. In the both-bone fixation 
group, two fractures were stabilized by only one nail. In both groups, median 
limitation of pronation/supination at 9-month follow-up was 5°-10°. In both 
groups operation time was similar but in the single-bone fixation group cast 
immobilisation was longer (median of 37 vs. 28 days). In four children, 
re-displacement of the fracture occurred in those fractures without an 
intramedullary nail.
CONCLUSIONS: These results caution against the use of single-bone fixation in 
all both-bone forearm fractures. This method may lead to increased 
re-displacement and reduced clinical results.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-013-1763-0
PMID: 23649400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Clin Rheumatol. 2013 Jul;32(7):937-42. doi: 10.1007/s10067-013-2273-8. Epub
2013  May 7.

Overview of vasculitis and vasculopathy in rheumatoid arthritis--something to 
think about.

Radic M(1), Martinovic Kaliterna D, Radic J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, University of Split School 
of Medicine, University Hospital Centre Split, Šižgorićeva 20/II, 21 000, Split, 
Croatia. mislavradic@gmail.com

The vasculature plays a crucial role in inflammation and atherosclerosis 
associated with the pathogenesis of rheumatoid arthritis. Vasculitis in 
rheumatoid arthritis is associated with longstanding disease, has an important 
impact on a patient's quality of life and influences patient life expectancy. 
Seropositivity, specific human leukocyte antigen variations, antibodies to 
cyclic citrullinated peptides, and cigarette smoking are among the genetic and 
environmental predictors of rheumatoid vasculitis. Atherosclerosis is an early 
and common finding in rheumatoid arthritis and it correlates with disease 
duration, activity, and severity. Apart from conventional risk factors such as 
cigarette smoking, physical inactivity, obesity, arterial hypertension, 
dyslipidemia and diabetes mellitus, rheumatoid arthritis-related risk factors 
including disease duration, severity and activity, rheumatoid factor and 
antibodies to cyclic citrullinated peptides status, functional impairment, 
C-reactive protein, radiographic changes, presence of the shared epitope, and 
treatment modalities are all implicated in the development of accelerated 
atherosclerosis. Atherosclerosis is also considered an inflammatory disease; 
thus, it may share common pathogenic mechanisms with rheumatic diseases such as 
rheumatoid arthritis. Advances in treatment of rheumatoid arthritis with 
disease-modifying biologic and nonbiologic agents will probably continue to 
reduce the incidence of vasculitis. Since the goal of treatment for rheumatoid 
arthritis is to decrease inflammatory burden, successful treatment may 
theoretically reduce the risk of accelerated atherosclerosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s10067-013-2273-8
PMID: 23649484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Environ Health Perspect. 2013 Jul;121(7):791-6. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1206127.
Epub  2013 May 4.

Burden of disease from toxic waste sites in India, Indonesia, and the 
Philippines in 2010.

Chatham-Stephens K(1), Caravanos J, Ericson B, Sunga-Amparo J, Susilorini B, 
Sharma P, Landrigan PJ, Fuller R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, 
New York, New York 10029 , USA. kevin.chatham-stephens@mssm.edu

BACKGROUND: Prior calculations of the burden of disease from toxic exposures 
have not included estimates of the burden from toxic waste sites due to the 
absence of exposure data.
OBJECTIVE: We developed a disability-adjusted life year (DALY)-based estimate of 
the disease burden attributable to toxic waste sites. We focused on three low- 
and middle-income countries (LMICs): India, Indonesia, and the Philippines.
METHODS: Sites were identified through the Blacksmith Institute's Toxic Sites 
Identification Program, a global effort to identify waste sites in LMICs. At 
least one of eight toxic chemicals was sampled in environmental media at each 
site, and the population at risk estimated. By combining estimates of disease 
incidence from these exposures with population data, we calculated the DALYs 
attributable to exposures at each site.
RESULTS: We estimated that in 2010, 8,629,750 persons were at risk of exposure 
to industrial pollutants at 373 toxic waste sites in the three countries, and 
that these exposures resulted in 828,722 DALYs, with a range of 
814,934-1,557,121 DALYs, depending on the weighting factor used. This disease 
burden is comparable to estimated burdens for outdoor air pollution (1,448,612 
DALYs) and malaria (725,000 DALYs) in these countries. Lead and hexavalent 
chromium collectively accounted for 99.2% of the total DALYs for the chemicals 
evaluated.
CONCLUSIONS: Toxic waste sites are responsible for a significant burden of 
disease in LMICs. Although some factors, such as unidentified and unscreened 
sites, may cause our estimate to be an underestimate of the actual burden of 
disease, other factors, such as extrapolation of environmental sampling to the 
entire exposed population, may result in an overestimate of the burden of 
disease attributable to these sites. Toxic waste sites are a major, and 
heretofore underrecognized, global health problem.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1206127
PMCID: PMC3702002
PMID: 23649493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: J.C., B.E., J.S.A., B.S., P.S., and R.F. are 
employed either part-time or full-time by the Blacksmith Institute, which is an 
international nonprofit organization dedicated to solving pollution problems in 
low- and middle-income countries. The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai 
receives funding from the Blacksmith Institute, some of which helps support 
K.C-S. P.J.L. is a member of the Board of Directors for the Blacksmith 
Institute.


992. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2013 Jun;11(3):287-98. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-013-0035-z.

A pilot discrete choice experiment to explore preferences for EQ-5D-5L health 
states.

Norman R(1), Cronin P, Viney R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation (CHERE), University of 
Technology, Sydney, Australia. richard.norman@chere.uts.edu.au

BACKGROUND: The EQ-5D-5L has recently been developed to improve the sensitivity 
of the widely used three-level version. Valuation studies are required before 
the use of this new instrument can be adopted. The use of discrete choice 
experiments (DCEs) in this area is a promising area of research.
PURPOSE: To test the plausibility and acceptability of estimating an Australian 
algorithm for the newly developed five-level version of the EQ-5D using a DCE.
METHODS: A choice experiment was designed, consisting of 200 choice sets blocked 
such that each respondent answered 10 choice sets. Each choice set presented two 
health state-duration combinations, and an immediate death option. The 
experiment was implemented in an online Australian-representative sample. A 
random-effects probit model was estimated. To explore the feasibility of the 
approach, an indicative algorithm was developed. The algorithm is transformed to 
a 0 to 1 scale suitable for use to estimate quality-adjusted life-year weights 
for use in economic evaluation.
RESULTS: A total of 973 respondents undertook the choice experiment. Respondents 
were slightly younger and better educated than the general Australian 
population. Of the 973 respondents, 932 (95.8 %) completed all ten choice sets, 
and a further 12 completed some of the choice sets. In choice sets in which one 
health state-duration combination dominated another, the dominant option was 
selected on 89.5 % of occasions. The mean and median completion times were 17.9 
and 9.4 min, respectively, exhibiting a highly skewed distribution. The 
estimation results are broadly consistent with the monotonic nature of the 
EQ-5D-5L. Utility is increasing in life expectancy (i.e., respondents tend to 
prefer health profiles with longer life expectancy), and mainly decreases in 
higher levels in each dimension of the instrument. A high proportion of 
respondents found the task clear and relatively easy to complete.
CONCLUSIONS: DCEs are a feasible approach to the estimation of utility weights 
for more complex multi-attribute utility instruments such as the EQ-5D-5L.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-013-0035-z
PMID: 23649892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Eur J Heart Fail. 2013 Oct;15(10):1113-21. doi: 10.1093/eurjhf/hft071. Epub
2013  May 5.

Preferences of heart failure patients in daily clinical practice: quality of 
life or longevity?

Kraai IH(1), Vermeulen KM, Luttik ML, Hoekstra T, Jaarsma T, Hillege HL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Medical Center Groningen, University of 
Groningen, The Netherlands.

AIMS: Knowledge of patient preferences is vital for delivering optimal 
healthcare. This study uses utility measurement to assess the preferences of 
heart failure (HF) patients regarding quality of life or longevity. The utility 
approach represents the perspective of a patient; facilitates the combination of 
mortality, morbidity, and treatment regimen into a single score; and makes it 
possible to compare the effects of different interventions in healthcare.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Patient preferences of 100 patients with HF were assessed 
in interviews using the time trade-off (TTO) approach. Health-related quality of 
life (HR-QoL) was assessed with the EQ-5D and the Minnesota Living with Heart 
Failure Questionnaire (MLHFQ). Patients' own estimation of life expectancy was 
assessed with a visual analogue scale (VAS). Of the 100 patients (mean age 70 ± 
9 years; 71% male), 61% attach more weight to quality of life over longevity; 
while 9% and 14% were willing to trade 6 and 12 months, respectively, for 
perfect health and attach more weight to quality of life. Patients willing to 
trade time had a significantly higher level of NT-proBNP and reported 
significantly more dyspnoea during exertion. Predictors of willingness to trade 
time were higher NT-proBNP and lower EQ VAS.
CONCLUSION: The majority of HF patients attach more weight to quality of life 
over longevity. There was no difference between both groups with respect to life 
expectancy described by the patients. These insights enable open and 
personalized discussions of patients' preferences in treatment and care 
decisions, and could guide the future development of more patient-centred care.

DOI: 10.1093/eurjhf/hft071
PMID: 23650130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Appl Clin Inform. 2013 Feb 20;4(1):75-87. doi: 10.4338/ACI-2012-10-RA-0048. 
Print 2013.

Novel computerized health risk appraisal may improve longitudinal health and 
wellness in primary care: a pilot study.

Nagykaldi ZJ(1), Voncken-Brewster V, Aspy CB, Mold JW.

Author information:
(1)University of Oklahoma HSC, Department of Family and Preventive Medicine , 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma, United States.

OBJECTIVES: Health Risk Appraisals (HRAs) have been implemented in a variety of 
settings, however few studies have examined the impact of computerized HRAs 
systematically in primary care. The study aimed at the development and pilot 
testing of a novel, comprehensive HRA tool in primary care practices.
METHODS: We designed, implemented and pilot tested a novel, web-based HRA tool 
in four pair-matched intervention and control primary care practices (N = 200). 
Outcomes were measured before and 12 months after the intervention using the 
HRA, patient surveys, and qualitative feedback. Intervention patients received 
detailed feedback from the HRA and they were encouraged to discuss the HRA 
report at their next wellness visit in order to develop a personalized wellness 
plan.
RESULTS: Estimated life expectancy and its derivatives, including Real Age and 
Wellness Score were significantly impacted by the HRA implementation (P<0.001). 
The overall rate of 10 preventive maneuvers improved by 4.2% in the intervention 
group vs. control (P = 0.001). The HRA improved the patient-centeredness of 
care, measured by the CAHPS PCC-10 survey (P = 0.05). HRA use was strongly 
associated with better self-rated overall health (OR = 4.94; 95% CI, 3.85-6.36) 
and improved up-to-dateness for preventive services (OR = 1.22; 95% CI, 
1.12-1.32). A generalized linear model suggested that increase in Wellness Score 
was associated with improvements in patient-centeredness of care, up-to-dateness 
for preventive services and being in the intervention group (all P<0.03). 
Patients were satisfied with their HRA-experience, found the HRA report relevant 
and motivating and thought that it increased their health awareness. Clinicians 
emphasized that the HRA tool helped them and their patients converge on 
high-impact, evidence-based preventive measures.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite study limitations, results suggest that a comprehensive, 
web-based, and goal-directed HRA tool can improve the receipt of preventive 
services, patient-centeredness of care, behavioral health outcomes, and various 
wellness indicators in primary care settings.

DOI: 10.4338/ACI-2012-10-RA-0048
PMCID: PMC3644816
PMID: 23650489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Acta Gastroenterol Latinoam. 2013 Mar;43(1):31-5.

[Gastrointestinal histoplasmosis: an atypical presentation].

[Article in Spanish]

Barros RA(1), Monteverde MJ, dElizalde Sd, Barros AS, Barros RF.

Author information:
(1)CEGA, Centro Privado de Gastroenterología, Campana, Provincia de Buenos 
Aires, Argentina. rabarros.cega@gmail.com

Histoplasmosis is a systemic mycosis caused by Histoplasma capsulatum. It is an 
endemic disease in the American continent. It is spread hematogenously and any 
organ can be affected. It is more frequent in immunodeficient patients and the 
most common opportunist mycosis associated with HIV Exclusive gastrointestinal 
involvement is rare and invariably mortal without treatment. It is considered to 
be impossible to diagnose the disease based on the macroscopic aspect of 
lesions. We report a 43-year-old male in apparent good health status who was 
admitted with intermittent proctorrhagia of one year of evolution associated to 
burning proctalgia, without any further symptoms. A videocolonoscopy (VCC) with 
proctologic exam was conducted The patient was warned about the potential 
orificial origin of the bleeding and the importance of screening for colorectal 
neoplasia. The proctologic exam revealed internal congestive hemorrhoids. VCC 
showed during the routine exploration of the terminal ileon lesions both in that 
level and rectum, although of a different morphology. The colon had normal 
endoscopic appearance. Biopsies of both lesions identified Histoplasma. Later 
studies diagnosed HIV/AIDS and the patient was referred to the infectology 
department to complete diagnostic tests and begin treatment of both diseases. In 
conclusion, we present an atypical case of this mycosis because of its exclusive 
gastrointestinal allocation, in anasymptomatic patient, in apparent good health, 
with unknown HIV/AIDS, who was admitted because of a proctorrhagia of orificial 
origin. Endoscopic biopsies of lesions of different morphologies, located in the 
terminal ileon and rectum, allowed the diagnosis of this disease, that had no 
clinical expression. This casual endoscopic diagnosis enabled to change the life 
expectancy of the patient. We consider that the described endoscopic lesions in 
rectum are of a particular morphology and can rarely be found in other 
pathologies. The diffusion of these images could warn other endoscopists of 
these phenomena.

PMID: 23650831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Eur J Haematol. 2013 Oct;91(4):287-94. doi: 10.1111/ejh.12134. Epub 2013 Jun
28.

Renal diseases in haemophilic patients: pathogenesis and clinical management.

Esposito P(1), Rampino T, Gregorini M, Fasoli G, Gamba G, Dal Canton A.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Nephrology, Dialysis and Transplantation, Fondazione IRCCS 
Policlinico S.Matteo and University of Pavia, Pavia, Italy.

Haemophilia A and B are genetic X-linked bleeding disorders, caused by mutations 
in genes encoding factors VIII and IX, respectively. Clinical manifestations of 
haemophilia are spontaneous haemorrhage or acute bleeding caused by minor 
trauma, resulting in severe functional consequences that can culminate in a 
debilitating arthropathy. Life expectancy and quality of life of patients with 
haemophilia have dramatically improved over the last years, mainly for new 
therapeutic options and the awareness to the risk of HCV and HIV infections. 
Different clinical problems arise from this important change in history of 
patients with haemophilia. In particular, ageing-related diseases, such as 
diabetes, hypertension and cancer, and chronic viral infections are emerging as 
new challenges in this patient population. Among the different types of chronic 
illnesses, renal diseases are of special interest as they involve some difficult 
management issues. In fact, decisions regarding adequate preventive strategies 
and viral infection treatment, the choice of the dialytic modality, placement of 
vascular access and prescription of dialytic treatments are particularly 
complicated, because only few data are available. In this review, we discuss the 
pathogenesis of renal damage in patients with haemophilia, especially in those 
with blood-transmitted viral infections, and the major issues about the 
management of renal diseases, including problems related to dialytic treatment 
and kidney transplantation, providing practical algorithms to guide the clinical 
decision-making process.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejh.12134
PMID: 23651176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Stroke. 2013 Jun;44(6):1621-8. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.000792. Epub 2013
May  7.

Long-term cognitive impairment after first-ever ischemic stroke in young adults.

Schaapsmeerders P(1), Maaijwee NA, van Dijk EJ, Rutten-Jacobs LC, Arntz RM, 
Schoonderwaldt HC, Dorresteijn LD, Kessels RP, de Leeuw FE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Donders 
Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour. PO Box 9101, 6500 HB Nijmegen, the 
Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Stroke. 2013 Jul;44(7):e81.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Up to 14% of all ischemic strokes occur in young adults 
(<50 years). Poststroke cognitive performance is a decisive determinant of their 
quality of life. However, virtually no studies report on cognition after young 
stroke, especially not on the long term. This long-term perspective is important 
because young patients have a long life expectancy during which they start 
forming a family, have an active social life, and make decisive career moves. We 
aimed to evaluate the long-term cognitive outcome.
METHODS: All consecutive patients between January 1, 1980, and November 1, 2010, 
with a first-ever young ischemic stroke were recruited for cognitive assessment, 
using a matched stroke-free population as a reference. Composite Z scores for 7 
cognitive domains were calculated and the ANCOVA model was used (Bonferroni 
correction). A below average performance was defined as >1.0 SD below the 
age-adjusted mean of the controls and cognitive impairment as >1.5 SD.
RESULTS: Two hundred seventy-seven patients and 146 matched controls completed 
cognitive assessment (mean follow-up, 11.0 years, SD, 8.2; age, 50.9 years, SD, 
10.3). Long-term cognitive outcome after an ischemic stroke was worse in most 
cognitive domains compared with a nonstroke population. Up to 50% of the 
patients had a below average performance or cognitive impairment. Deficits in 
processing speed, working memory, and attention were most common.
CONCLUSIONS: Even 11 years after ischemic stroke in young adults, a substantial 
proportion of patients must cope with permanent cognitive deficits. These 
results have implications for information given to patients and rehabilitation 
services.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.111.000792
PMID: 23652272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2013 May 1;6(3):343-51. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.111.000032. Epub 2013 May 7.

Primary prevention of acute rheumatic fever and rheumatic heart disease with 
penicillin in South African children with pharyngitis: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Irlam J(1), Mayosi BM, Engel M, Gaziano TA.

Author information:
(1)Primary Health Care Directorate, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2013 Jul;10(7):366.

BACKGROUND: Acute rheumatic fever and subsequent rheumatic heart disease remain 
significant in developing countries. We describe a cost-effective analysis of 7 
strategies for the primary prevention of acute rheumatic fever and rheumatic 
heart disease in children presenting with pharyngitis in urban primary care 
clinics in South Africa.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used a Markov model to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
treatment with intramuscular penicillin using each of the following strategies: 
(1) empirical (treat all); (2) positive throat culture (culture all); (3) 
clinical decision rule (CDR) score ≥2 (CDR 2+); (4) CDR score ≥3 (CDR 3+); (5) 
treating those with a CDR score ≥2 plus those with CDR score <2 and positive 
cultures (CDR 2+, culture CDR negatives); (6) treating those with a CDR score ≥3 
plus those with CDR score <3 and positive cultures (CDR 3+, culture CDR 
negatives); and (7) treat none. The strategies ranked in order from lowest cost 
were treat all ($11.19 per child), CDR 2+ ($11.20); the CDR 3+ ($13.00); CDR 2+, 
culture CDR negatives ($16.42); CDR 3+, culture CDR negatives ($23.89); and 
culture all ($27.21). The CDR 2+ is the preferred strategy at less than 
$150/quality-adjusted life year compared with the treat all strategy. A strategy 
of culturing all children compared with the CDR 2+ strategy costs more than $125 
000/quality-adjusted life year gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Treating all children presenting with pharyngitis in urban primary 
care clinics in South Africa with intramuscular penicillin is the least costly. 
A strategy of using a clinical decision rule without culturing is overall the 
preferred strategy. A strategy of culturing all children may be prohibitively 
expensive.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.111.000032
PMID: 23652737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. Endokrynol Pol. 2013;64(2):82-93.

The reference values of sex hormones and SHBG serum levels in subjects over 65 
years old - The PolSenior Study.

Milewicz A(1), Krzyżanowska-Świniarska B, Miazgowski T, Jędrzejuk D, Arkowska A, 
Mieszczanowicz U, Bar-Andziak E.

Author information:
(1)Medical University, Department of Endocrinology, Diabetology and Isotope 
Therapy, Wrocław, Poland.

INTRODUCTION: Over the last decade, average life expectancy has continuously 
increased. There has been no data on normal sex hormone (SH) levels in a Polish 
elderly population. In this study, we assessed SH in the PolSenior cohort to 
determine normal reference ranges in relation to gender, age, and cardiovascular 
disease risk factors (CVDRFs).
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The study was performed with 4,352 participants (2,168 men 
and 2,088 women), aged from 55 to over 90 years, stratified in five-year age 
groups. Pre-elderly subjects (55-59 years of age) served as the reference group. 
We assessed total testosterone (TT), estradiol (TE2) and DHEA-S (by RIA) SHBG 
and FSH (by IRMA) and calculated free androgen and free estrogen indices (FAI 
and FEI). Percentage body fat (%BF) was measured by bioelectric impedance 
analysis. The CVDRFs assessment included blood pressure and biochemical (blood 
glucose, high-density lipoproteins, triglycerides) and anthropometric (waist 
circumference) components of the metabolic syndrome.
RESULTS: TT was low in 19.9%, normal in 78.2%, and high in 1.8% of men. TE2 was 
low in 94.6% of women. Age and CVDRFs significantly influenced values of SHBG, 
FSH, TT, FAI, FEI, and DHEA-S in men, while in women values of FSH, TT and TE2 
did not change. BMI and %BF affected SH regardless of the age groups and CVDRFs.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that the reference ranges stratified by the 
five-year age bands seem more accurate than those given for the overall 
population over 60 years of age. The clinical relevance of these reference 
ranges increases when they are considered in relation to CVDRFs, BMI and %BF.

PMID: 23653270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Endokrynol Pol. 2013;64(2):150-5.

Pathomechanisms of the development of obesity in some endocrinopathies - an 
overview.

Pujanek M(1), Bronisz A, Małecki P, Junik R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetology, Nicolaus Copernicus University 
in Toruń, Ludwik Rydygier Collegium Medicum in Bydgoszcz, Poland.

Obesity is a disease in which the excess of accumulated body fat has an adverse 
effect on health and consequently leads to a reduced life expectancy. It is a 
typical 'disease of civilisation', and is a serious public health problem 
because of a significant increase in its prevalance. It is also a common symptom 
in a variety of endocrine disorders, but the factors responsible for the 
development of obesity in endocrinopathies have not been clearly identified. It 
is not known whether a common factor responsible for the development of obesity 
occurs in a number of endocrine diseases. On the other hand, adipose tissue is 
an important endocrine organ producing biologically active substances with local 
or systemic action that can lead to severe disorders of the endocrine system. 
This study presents data on the mechanisms of the development of obesity in the 
thyroid diseases, polycystic ovary syndrome, hypercortisolism and pituitary 
insufficiency.

PMID: 23653278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Med Pregl. 2013 Mar-Apr;66(3-4):121-5. doi: 10.2298/mpns1304121r.

Quadriceps tendon injuries.

Ristić V(1), Maljanović M, Popov I, Harhaji V, Milankov V.

Author information:
(1)General Hospital Subotica, Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, 
Clinical Centre of Vojvodina, Novi Sad. ristic@tippnet.rs

INTRODUCTION: The aim of study was to analyze risk factors, mechanisms of 
injury, symptoms and time that elapsed from injury until operation of complete 
quadriceps tendon ruptures.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This retrospective multicenter study included 30 patients 
operated for this injury, of whom 28 (93.3%) were men. The average age was 53.7 
years (18-73). Twenty-six patients had reconstruction of unilateral rupture and 
four of bilateral one.
RESULTS: Eighty percent of them had some risk factors for rupture of the tendon 
with degenerative changes. Eight patients had diabetes, seven patients were on 
renal dialysis, two patients had secondary hyperparathyroidism, five patients 
were obese and two patients had former knee operations. These injuries occurred 
in 80% following minor trauma caused by falls on stairs, on flat surfaces and 
squatting. The most frequent symptoms were: pain, swelling, lack of extension of 
knee and defect above patella, and three cases were initially misdiagnosed. 
During the first 10 days after injury, acute and chronic ruptures were 
reconstructed in 22 (73.3%) and 8 patients, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Quadriceps tendon injuries most often happen to male patients with 
predisposing conditions in their fifth and sixth decade of life due to trivial 
trauma. Patients on renal dialysis are the most vulnerable population group.

DOI: 10.2298/mpns1304121r
PMID: 23653988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Agric Food Chem. 2010 Aug 25;58(16):9157-63. doi: 10.1021/jf102004v. Epub
2010  Jul 26.

Effect of the commercial ripening stage and postharvest storage on microbial and 
aroma changes of 'Ambrunés' sweet cherries.

Serradilla MJ(1), Martín A, Hernandez A, López-Corrales M, Lozano M, Córdoba Mde 
G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Horticulture, Research Center Finca La Orden-Valdesequera, 
Junta de Extremadura, Autovía Madrid-Lisboa s/n, 06187 Guadajira, Badajoz, 
Spain.

The purpose of this work was to investigate the effect of the commercial 
ripening stage and postharvest storage on microbial and aroma changes of 
'Ambrunés' sweet cherries. The microbial counts and volatile profile of sweet 
cherry batches automatically sanitized and classified in three commercial 
ripening stages were studied for five postharvest storages. The batches were 
also evaluated sensorially, and the correlations between volatile compounds and 
aroma quality were determined. The microbial counts provided evidence that 21 
days of cold storage is near the maximum extension of 'Ambrunés' sweet cherry 
storage in maintaining the minimal microbial quality during their shelf-life 
period. Relevant changes associated with longer cold storages were found in 
different aroma constituents with a negative impact on flavor. These changes 
were more evident in less ripened sweet cherries, including a decrease of 
(E)-2-hexenal and 1-hexanol and an increase of 2-methyl-propanal and 
2-methyl-butanal. These compounds could constitute a good tool to predict flavor 
quality in 'Ambrunés' sweet cherries during the cold-storage process.

DOI: 10.1021/jf102004v
PMID: 23654239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Ann Pharmacother. 2013 Jun;47(6):781-9. doi: 10.1345/aph.1S079. Epub 2013 May
8.

Pharmacist-physician collaboration for diabetes care: the diabetes initiative 
program.

Farland MZ(1), Byrd DC, McFarland MS, Thomas J, Franks AS, George CM, Gross BN, 
Guirguis AB, Suda KJ.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, Health Science Center, University of Tennessee, 
Knoxville Campus, Knoxville, TN, USA. mfarland@uthsc.edu

BACKGROUND: Multiple complications can arise secondary to poor control of 
glucose, blood pressure, and cholesterol in a patient with diabetes.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the effect of a pharmacist-physician collaboration on 
attainment of diabetes-related measures of control.
METHODS: This was a prospective, multicenter, cohort study. Patients were 
enrolled from 7 practice sites throughout Tennessee if they had been diagnosed 
with type 2 diabetes, were aged 18 years or older with a life expectancy greater 
than 1 year, and were English speaking. Pregnant women were excluded. Patients 
were followed for 12 months following enrollment by informed consent. The 
pharmacist-physician collaboration method was established prior to study 
initiation. Primary outcomes included hemoglobin A1c (A1C), number of patients 
with A1C less than 7%, and percentage of patients with A1C greater than 9%.
RESULTS: Of the 206 patients enrolled, the mean age was 59.73 years, and most 
were male (59.71%) and white (66.02%). The A1C was reduced by an average of 
1.16% (p < 0.0001). The proportion of patients with A1C less than 7% increased 
from 12.75% at baseline to 36.76% at study conclusion (p = 0.0002). The 
proportion of patients with A1C greater than 9% decreased from 34.15% to 16.50%, 
(p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Pharmacist-physician collaborative management at multiple practice 
locations and types of setting (eg, private, academic, Veterans Affairs medical 
center) has a positive impact on glycemic control and diabetes-related health 
maintenance. This was accomplished without increasing the total number of 
antihyperglycemic agents prescribed and without an increase in patient-reported 
episodes of hypoglycemia.

DOI: 10.1345/aph.1S079
PMID: 23656751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Ann Surg. 2014 Mar;259(3):598-604. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e3182902cca.

Acute aortic dissection type A: age-related management and outcomes reported in 
the German Registry for Acute Aortic Dissection Type A (GERAADA) of over 2000 
patients.

Rylski B(1), Hoffmann I, Beyersdorf F, Suedkamp M, Siepe M, Nitsch B, Blettner 
M, Borger MA, Weigang E; Multicenter Prospective Observational Study.

Collaborators: Mohr FW, Moritz A, Beyersdorf F, Karck M, Beyer M, Schlensak C, 
Hagl C, Reichenspurner H, Vahl CF, Harringer W, Dapunt O, Carrel T, Diegeler A, 
Jakob H, Laufer G, Liebold A, Warnecke H, Matschke K, Sievers HH, Welz A, 
Walther T, Fischlein T, Leyh R, Däbritz S, Schäfers HJ, Peivandi AA, Martens S, 
Massoudy P, Rieß FC, Gummert J, Cremer J, Autschbach R, Ennker J, Posival H, 
Markewitz A, Schütz A, Wimmer-Greinecker G, Steinhoff G, Dahm M, Franke U, Dörge 
H, Vetter H, Doenst T, Kuntze T, Wahlers T, Hausmann H, Haverich A, Doll N, 
Silber RE, Hammel D.

Author information:
(1)*University Heart Center Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany †Institute for Medical 
Biostatistics, Epidemiology and Informatics, Medical Center of Johannes 
Gutenberg-University Mainz, Mainz, Germany ‡Department of Cardiac Surgery, 
Leipzig Heart Center, Leipzig, Germany §Department for Cardiothoracic and 
Vascular Surgery, Medical Center of Johannes Gutenberg-University Mainz, Mainz, 
Germany.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the association between age and clinical presentation, 
management and surgical outcomes in a large contemporary, prospective cohort of 
patients with acute aortic dissection type A (AADA).
BACKGROUND: AADA is one of the most life-threatening cardiovascular diseases, 
and delayed surgery or overly conservative management can result in sudden 
death.
METHODS: The perioperative and intraoperative conditions of 2137 patients 
prospectively reported to the multicenter German Registry for Acute Aortic 
Dissection Type A were analyzed.
RESULTS: Of all patients with AADA, 640 (30%) were 70 years or older and 160 
patients (7%) were younger than 40 years. The probability of aortic dissection 
extension to the supra-aortic vessels and abdominal aorta decreased with age (P 
< 0.0001 and P = 0.0017, respectively). In 1447 patients (69%), the aortic root 
was preserved and supracoronary replacement of the ascending aorta was done. The 
probability of this procedure increased with age (P < 0.0001). The incidence of 
new postoperative neurological disorders was not influenced by age. The lowest 
probability of 30-day mortality was noted in the youngest patients (11%-14% for 
patients aged between 20 and 40 years) and rose progressively with age, peaking 
at 25% in octogenarians.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reflects current results after surgical treatment of 
AADA in relation to patient age. Current survival rates are acceptable, even in 
very elderly patients. The contemporary surgical mortality rate among young 
patients is lower than that previously reported in the literature. The 
postoperative stroke incidence does not increase with age.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0b013e3182902cca
PMID: 23657079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. BMC Palliat Care. 2013 May 8;12(1):20. doi: 10.1186/1472-684X-12-20.

The development of an instrument that can identify children with palliative care 
needs: the Paediatric Palliative Screening Scale (PaPaS Scale): a qualitative 
study approach.

Bergstraesser E(1), Hain RD, Pereira JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Palliative Care and Oncology, University Children's Hospital 
Zurich, Steinwiesstrasse 75, CH-8032, Zurich, Switzerland. 
eva.bergstraesser@kispi.uzh.ch.

BACKGROUND: The introduction of paediatric palliative care and referral to 
specialised teams still occurs late in the illness trajectory of children with 
life-limiting diseases. The aim of this ongoing multipart study was to develop a 
screening instrument for paediatricians that would improve the timely 
identification of children who could benefit from a palliative care approach.
METHODS: We used a qualitative study approach with semi-structured interviews 
(Part 1) and a focus group discussion (Part 2) to define the domains and items 
of the screening instrument. Seven international paediatric palliative care 
experts from the UK, France, USA, and Canada took part in face-to-face 
interviews, and eleven paediatric health professionals from the University 
Children's Hospital, Zurich, participated in a subsequent focus group 
discussion.
RESULTS: This preliminary phase of development and validation of the instrument 
revealed five domains relevant to identifying children with life-limiting 
diseases, who could benefit from palliative care: 1) trajectory of disease and 
impact on daily activities of the child; 2) expected outcome of disease-directed 
treatment and burden of treatment; 3) symptom and problem burden; 4) preferences 
of patient, parents or healthcare professional; and 5) estimated life 
expectancy. Where palliative care seems to be necessary, it would be introduced 
in a stepwise or graduated manner.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is a preliminary report of the development of an 
instrument to facilitate timely introduction of palliative care in the illness 
trajectory of a severely ill child. The instrument demonstrated early validity 
and was evaluated as being a valuable approach towards effective paediatric 
palliative care.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-684X-12-20
PMCID: PMC3663726
PMID: 23657092


6. Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Jun;42(3):914-6. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyt035. Epub 2013 May
8.

Limitless longevity: comment on the Contribution of rectangularization to the 
secular increase of life expectancy.

Modig K, Drefahl S, Ahlbom A.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Jun;42(3):916-7.

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Feb;42(1):250-8.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyt035
PMCID: PMC3733697
PMID: 23657198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Jun;42(3):916-7. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyt038. Epub 2013 May
8.

Authors' response to 'Limitless longevity': the contribution of 
rectangularization to the secular increase in life expectancy: an empirical 
study.

Rossi I, Rousson V, Paccaud F.

Comment on
    Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Feb;42(1):250-8.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Jun;42(3):914-6.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyt038
PMID: 23657199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


8. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 May;15(4):389-99. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0482-3. Epub
 2013 May 9.

Valuing health at the end of life: an empirical study of public preferences.

Shah KK(1), Tsuchiya A, Wailoo AJ.

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, 7th floor Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London, 
SW1E 6QT, UK, kshah@ohe.org.

In 2009, the National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) issued 
supplementary advice to its Appraisal Committees to be taken into account when 
appraising life-extending, 'end-of-life' treatments. This indicated that if 
certain criteria are met, it may be appropriate to recommend the use of such 
treatments even if they would not normally be considered cost-effective. 
However, NICE's public consultation revealed concerns that there is little 
scientific evidence to support such a policy. This study examines whether there 
is public support for giving higher priority to life-extending, end-of-life 
treatments than to other types of treatment. In face-to-face interviews, 
respondents answered six questions asking them to choose which of two 
hypothetical patients they would prefer to treat, assuming that the health 
service has enough funds to treat one but not both of them. The various 
scenarios were designed so as to control for age- and time-related preferences. 
Fifty members of the general public in England were interviewed in July 2011. We 
find some evidence of support for giving priority to the patient with shorter 
remaining life expectancy, but note that a nontrivial minority of respondents 
expressed the opposite preference. Substantial preference for quality-of-life 
improvement over life extension was observed. Very few respondents expressed 
indifference or unwillingness to choose between the patients. Whilst there 
cannot be described to be a single 'consensus' set of preferences, we conclude 
that there are ways in which the results suggest that the current NICE policy 
may be insufficient.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0482-3
PMID: 23657476 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


9. Anaesthesist. 2013 May;62(5):407-19. doi: 10.1007/s00101-013-2170-1.

[Anesthesiological considerations for patients with trisomy 21 (Down syndrome)].

[Article in German]

Ihringer K(1), Russ N, Walther A, Schiff JH.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Anästhesiologie u. operative Intensivmedizin, Klinikum Stuttgart, 
Katharinenhospital, Kriegsbergstr. 60, 70174 Stuttgart, Deutschland.

The most common chromosomal abnormality is trisomy 21 which is also known as 
Down syndrome and occurs in approximately 1 in 800 births. The majority of the 
resulting disabling conditions cannot be cured and affect people of all ages, 
ethnicity and economic levels. Life expectancy has increased with advances in 
medical care in the same way as in the rest of the population. One of the major 
tasks for health care professionals is to help these differently abled children 
and their families function in the most effective way possible as they learn to 
accept the limitations imposed by a persistent disability. Signs and symptoms of 
trisomy 21 are very variable based on the trias of mental retardation to a 
variable degree, hand anomalies and cardiac complications. Other abnormalities 
are atlantoaxial instability (AAI), tracheal stenosis, a predisposition to 
respiratory complications, chronic hypothyroidism, microgenia and macroglossia. 
These conditions are relevant to anesthetic procedures and patients with Down 
syndrome and their families have specific expectations and attitudes towards 
medical and anesthetic treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00101-013-2170-1
PMID: 23657534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


10. Soc Psychiatry Psychiatr Epidemiol. 2013 Dec;48(12):2007-16. doi: 
10.1007/s00127-013-0704-0. Epub 2013 May 9.

Public opinion on imposing restrictions to people with an alcohol- or drug 
addiction: a cross-sectional survey.

van Boekel LC(1), Brouwers EP, van Weeghel J, Garretsen HF.

Author information:
(1)Department Tranzo, Tilburg School of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Tilburg 
University, Warandelaan 2, PO Box 90153, 5000 LE, Tilburg, The Netherlands, 
l.vanboekel@tilburguniversity.edu.

PURPOSE: Alcohol- and drug addiction tends to evoke disapproval and rejection 
among people. This study provides insight into the origin of people's negative 
attitudes towards these people. Corrigan's attribution model is used to examine 
intentions of the Dutch public to impose restrictions to people who are addicted 
to alcohol or illicit drugs.
METHODS: Data were derived from a cross-sectional survey among a representative 
panel of the Dutch population (N = 2,793). Path analyses were conducted to test 
the influence of attribution beliefs, emotional responses and familiarity with 
addictions on people's intentions to impose restrictions to these people.
RESULTS: More than half of the respondents agreed with imposing restrictions to 
someone with an addiction such as excluding from taking public office or forbid 
to care for children. Corrigan's attribution model was partially applicable to 
explain people's intentions to impose restrictions, since only a rather small 
percentage of the variance in people's intentions was explained by the model. 
The perception of personal responsibility for an addiction and high expectancy 
of aggressiveness have a positive influence on intentions to impose 
restrictions. Feelings of anger and fear were also predictors of intentions to 
impose restrictions.
CONCLUSIONS: The Dutch public showed high intentions to restrict people with an 
alcohol- or drug addiction which has an extensive impact on their life 
opportunities. Perceived aggressiveness, feeling of anger and fear, and 
perceived responsibility were associated with higher intentions to impose 
restrictions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00127-013-0704-0
PMID: 23657876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Aug;31(8):703-18. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0061-6.

Real-world cost-effectiveness of oxaliplatin in stage III colon cancer: a 
synthesis of clinical trial and daily practice evidence.

van Gils CW(1), de Groot S, Redekop WK, Koopman M, Punt CJ, Uyl-de Groot CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Institute for Medical Technology 
Assessment, Erasmus University, Burgemeester Oudlaan 50, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. cwmvangils@gmail.com

OBJECTIVES: Previous cost-effectiveness analyses of oxaliplatin have been based 
on randomised trials whereas current Dutch policy requires evidence from daily 
practice. The objective of this study was to examine the real-world 
cost-effectiveness of oxaliplatin plus fluoropyrimidines (FL) versus FL-only as 
adjuvant treatment of stage III colon cancer.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to estimate lifetime cost and 
quality-adjusted life-years from a hospital perspective. The effectiveness of 
the oxaliplatin arm was modelled by combining published efficacy data from the 
pivotal clinical registration trial (MOSAIC trial) with real-world (RW) data 
from a Dutch population-based observational study. RW patients were categorised 
into "eligible" or "ineligible", depending on whether the patients fulfilled the 
MOSAIC trial eligibility criteria. Ineligible RW patients (18 %) had a poorer 
prognosis than eligible RW patients (82 %) and MOSAIC trial patients. The 
effectiveness of the comparator was modelled using MOSAIC trial results. All 
cost inputs were based on RW patients and reported in Euro 2012. 
Cost-effectiveness analyses were performed for four different scenarios: (1) 
cost-effectiveness analyses based on MOSAIC trial patients; (2) 
cost-effectiveness analyses using MOSAIC and eligible RW patients; (3) 
cost-effectiveness analyses using MOSAIC and both eligible and ineligible RW 
patients, assuming oxaliplatin had an equal effect in ineligible and eligible 
patients; (4) cost-effectiveness analyses using MOSAIC and both eligible and 
ineligible RW patients, assuming oxaliplatin had no effect amongst ineligibles. 
For each scenario, univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
undertaken.
RESULTS: MOSAIC trial patients and eligible RW patients treated with oxaliplatin 
had comparable 2-year disease-free survivals (79.5 vs. 78.4 %). Oxaliplatin 
showed an incremental QALY gain of 1.02, 1.13, 1.17 and 0.93 and incremental 
cost of <euro>9,961, <euro>11,055, <euro>9,814 and <euro>11,854 in scenarios 
1-4, respectively. The corresponding incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) were <euro>9,766, <euro>9,783, <euro>8,388 and <euro>12,746 in scenarios 
1-4, respectively. In all scenarios, univariate and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses indicated that the ICERs are acceptable and robust under a wide range 
of model assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: The ICERs of the different scenarios that resulted from combining 
MOSAIC trial data with data from Dutch daily practice all suggest that FL + 
oxaliplatin is cost-effective versus FL alone in the adjuvant treatment of colon 
cancer. This article illustrates how one could design and implement a real-world 
cost-effectiveness study to yield internally valid results that could also be 
generalisable.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0061-6
PMID: 23657918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2013 Dec;68(12):1493-501. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glt047. Epub 2013 May 8.

Assessment of mitochondrial biogenesis and mTORC1 signaling during chronic 
rapamycin feeding in male and female mice.

Drake JC(1), Peelor FF 3rd, Biela LM, Watkins MK, Miller RA, Hamilton KL, Miller 
BF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health and Exercise Science, Colorado State University, 220 
Moby B Complex, Fort Collins, CO 80523-1582. benjamin.f.miller@colostate.edu.

Chronic inhibition of the protein synthesis regulator mTORC1 through rapamycin 
extends life span in mice, with longer extension in females than in males. 
Whether rapamycin treatment inhibits protein synthesis or whether it does so 
differently between sexes has not been examined. UM-HET3 mice were fed a control 
or rapamycin-supplemented (Rap) diet for 12 weeks. Protein synthesis in mixed, 
cytosolic (cyto), and mitochondrial (mito) fractions and DNA synthesis and 
mTORC1 signaling were determined in skeletal muscle, heart, and liver. In both 
sexes, mito protein synthesis was maintained in skeletal muscle from Rap despite 
decreases in mixed and cyto fractions, DNA synthesis, and rpS6 phosphorylation. 
In the heart, no change in protein synthesis occurred despite the decreased DNA 
synthesis. In the heart and liver, Rap males were more sensitive to mTORC1 
inhibition than Rap females. In conclusion, we show changes in protein synthesis 
and mTORC1 signaling that differ by sex and tissue.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glt047
PMCID: PMC3814233
PMID: 23657975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Circulation. 2013 Jun 4;127(22):2186-93. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.112.001330.  Epub 2013 May 8.

Should bilateral internal thoracic artery grafting be used in elderly patients 
undergoing coronary artery bypass grafting?

Medalion B(1), Mohr R, Frid O, Uretzky G, Nesher N, Paz Y, Kramer A, Pevni D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Tel Aviv Sourasky Medical Center, 6 
Weizman St, Tel Aviv, Israel. marion@tasmc.health.gov.il

BACKGROUND: Although bilateral internal thoracic artery grafting is associated 
with improved survival, the use of this technique in the elderly is 
controversial because of their increased surgical risk and shorter life 
expectancy. The purpose of this study was to evaluate the effect of age on 
outcome of patients undergoing bilateral internal thoracic artery grafting.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between 1996 and 2001, 1714 consecutive patients underwent 
skeletonized bilateral internal thoracic artery grafting, of whom 748 were ≤65 
years of age, 688 were between 65 and 75 years of age, and 278 were ≥75 years of 
age. Operative mortality of the 3 age groups (1.2%, 4.1%, and 5.8%, 
respectively) was lower than the logistic EuroSCORE predicted mortality (3.9%, 
6.5%, and 9.3%, respectively; P<0.001). There were no significant differences 
among the groups in occurrence of sternal infection (1.3%, 2.6%, and 1.4%, 
respectively; P=0.171). Mean follow-up was 11.5 years. Kaplan-Meier 10-year 
survival for patients ≤65, 65 to 75, and >75 years of age was 85%, 65%, and 40%, 
respectively (P<0.001). These rates were better than the corresponding predicted 
Charlson Comorbidity Index survival rates (68%, 37%, and 20%, respectively; 
P<0.001 for all age groups), approaching survival of the sex- and age-matched 
general population (90%, 70%, and 41%, respectively). Age ≤65 years (hazard 
ratio, 0.232; 95% confidence interval, 0.188-0.288) and age 65 to 75 years 
(hazard ratio, 0.499; 95% confidence interval, 0.414-0.602) were independent 
predictors of improved survival (Cox model).
CONCLUSIONS: Bilateral internal thoracic artery grafting should be considered in 
patients >65 years of age because of the significant survival benefit obtained 
with this surgical technique with no additional risk of sternal wound infection 
related to age.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.112.001330
PMID: 23658437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Clin Epidemiol. 2013 Apr 26;5:135-45. doi: 10.2147/CLEP.S30621. Print 2013.

Heart disease as a risk factor for dementia.

Justin BN(1), Turek M, Hakim AM.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neuroscience and Psychology, McGill University, Montreal, QC, 
