SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Most previous in vitro studies of cervical orthoses 
used a simplified injury model with all ligaments transected at a single spinal 
level, which differs from real-life neck injuries. Human volunteer studies are 
limited to measuring only sagittal motions or 3-dimensional motions only of the 
head or 1 or 2 spinal levels.
METHODS: Three-plane flexibility tests were performed to evaluate 2 cervical 
collars (Vista Collar and Vista Multipost Collar) and 2 cervicothoracic orthoses 
(Vista TS and Vista TS4) using a skull-neck-thorax model with 8 injured cervical 
spine specimens (manufacturer of orthoses: Aspen Medical Products Inc, Irvine, 
CA). The injuries consisted of flexion-compression at the lower cervical spine 
and extension-compression at superior spinal levels. Pair-wise repeated measures 
analysis of variance (P < 0.05) and Bonferroni post hoc tests determined 
significant differences in average range of motions of the head relative to the 
base, C7 or T1, among experimental conditions. RESULTS.: All orthoses 
significantly reduced unrestricted head/base flexion and extension. The orthoses 
allowed between 8.4% and 25.8% of unrestricted head/base motion in 
flexion/extension, 57.8% to 75.5% in axial rotation, and 53.8% to 73.7% in 
lateral bending. The average percentages of unrestricted motion allowed by the 
Vista Collar, Vista Multipost Collar, Vista TS, and Vista TS4 were: 14.0, 9.7, 
6.1, and 4.7, respectively, for middle cervical spine extension and 13.2, 11.8, 
3.3, and 0.4, respectively, for lower cervical spine flexion.
CONCLUSION: Successive increases in immobilization were observed from Vista 
Collar to Vista Multipost Collar, Vista TS, and Vista TS4 in extension at the 
injured middle cervical spine and in flexion at the injured lower cervical 
spine. Our results may assist clinicians in selecting the most appropriate 
orthosis based upon patient-specific cervical spine injuries.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e318290fb0f
PMID: 23486409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2013 Mar 1;11(3):348-55. doi:
10.6004/jnccn.2013.0044.

What is the appropriate approach to treating women with incurable cervical 
cancer?

Ramondetta L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology & Reproductive Medicine, The University of 
Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, Texas 77030, USA. 
lramonde@mdanderson.org

Women should not die of cervical cancer...but they do. Most cases of cervical 
cancer are preventable and, if caught early, highly curable. Despite this, 
cervical cancer is the second most common cause of cancer death in women 
worldwide. Unfortunately, cure is less likely when the disease is diagnosed at 
an advanced stage. Treatment of locally advanced disease often has serious 
lifelong side effects, including cystitis, proctitis, intestinal strictures, 
fistulas, vaginal agglutination/sexual dysfunction, and chronic pain. 
Unresectable recurrent disease may be associated with all these symptoms, in 
addition to disturbing malodorous discharge and bleeding and a life expectancy 
of less than 6 to 10 months. Supportive/palliative care interventions are needed 
at diagnosis and recurrence. Honest, conflict-free conversations about potential 
for response and expectations are needed for women with recurrent disease to 
help preserve and improve quality of life and avoid treatments that offer no 
benefit. Aims of trial design should include not only molecular targeting but 
also supportive care objectives, such as reducing pain, anxiety, depression, 
cachexia, and fatigue. A β-adrenergic blockade could potentially be part of 
these intervention trials. This article addresses the following questions and 
issues: whether therapeutic treatment of incurable cervical cancer is ever 
appropriate, the common symptoms of recurrent cervical cancer, the quantifying 
benefits of treatment, decision aids in treatment planning, doctor-patient 
candor, and integrating psychosocial factors into treatment.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2013.0044
PMID: 23486459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Sex Transm Dis. 2013 Apr;40(4):298-303. doi: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e31827f4fe9.

Cost-effectiveness of surveillance strategies after treatment for high-grade 
anal dysplasia in high-risk patients.

Assoumou SA(1), Mayer KH, Panther L, Linas BP, Kim J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Section of Infectious Diseases, Boston University 
School of Medicine, Boston, MA 02118, USA. sabrina.assoumou@bmc.org

BACKGROUND: Anal cancer is one of the most common cancers affecting human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected male patients. Currently, there is no 
consensus on posttreatment surveillance of HIV-infected men who have sex with 
men (MSM) who have been treated for high-grade intraepithelial neoplasia 
(HGAIN), the likely precursor to anal cancer.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of a range 
of strategies for anal cancer surveillance in HIV-infected MSM previously 
treated for HGAIN.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to project quality-adjusted life 
expectancy, lifetime costs, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of 5 
strategies using high-resolution anoscopy (HRA) and/or anal cytology testing 
after treatment.
RESULTS: Performing HRA alone at 6- and 12-month visits was associated with a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $4446 per quality-adjusted life year gained. In 
comparison, combined HRA and anal cytology at both visits provided greater 
health benefit at a cost of $17,373 per quality-adjusted life year gained. Our 
results were robust over a number of scenarios and assumptions including 
patients' level of immunosuppression. Results were most sensitive to test 
characteristics and cost, as well as progression rates of normal to HGAIN and 
HGAIN to cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that combined HRA and anal cytology at 6 and 12 
months may be a cost-effective surveillance strategy after treatment of HGAIN in 
HIV-infected MSM.

DOI: 10.1097/OLQ.0b013e31827f4fe9
PMCID: PMC3780795
PMID: 23486494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest For the remaining authors 
no conflicts of interest were declared.


506. Antivir Ther. 2013;18(4):623-33. doi: 10.3851/IMP2555. Epub 2013 Mar 13.

Individualized treatment of HBeAg-negative chronic hepatitis B using pegylated 
interferon-α2a as first-line and week-12 HBV DNA/HBsAg stopping rule: a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Iannazzo S(1), Coco B, Brunetto MR, Rossetti F, Caputo A, Latour A, Espinos B, 
Bonino F.

Author information:
(1)IMS Health Economics & Outcomes Research, Milan, Italy. 
siannazzo@it.imshealth.com.

BACKGROUND: Hepatitis B e antigen (HBeAg)-negative chronic hepatitis B (CHB) is 
the most frequent and difficult-to-treat viral hepatitis worldwide. HBV DNA and 
hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg) serum levels, which help the early 
identification of non-responders to pegylated interferon (PEG-IFN), prompt more 
flexible individualized therapeutic strategies exploiting the benefits of both 
PEG-IFN and nucleoside/nucleotide analogues (NAs). We assessed the 
cost-effectiveness of week-12 HBV DNA/HBsAg stopping rule for early interruption 
and switch to currently most effective NA treatments (entecavir [ETV] or 
tenofovir disoproxil fumarate [TDF]).
METHODS: A decision-analytic Markov model was developed in the following 
health-related states: CHB, compensated cirrhosis (CC) and decompensated 
cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, liver transplant, post-liver transplant, 
death, virological response, relapse and HBsAg clearance. Simulated strategies 
included: ETV/TDF in CHB; ETV/TDF delayed until CC; first-line PEG-IFN followed 
by switch to ETV/TDF for either patients meeting the week-12 stopping rule or 
week-48 null-responders/relapsers; and first-line PEG-IFN followed by switch to 
ETV/TDF delayed until CC. ETV and TDF were considered alternatively for a total 
of eight strategies. A lifetime simulation horizon was applied.
RESULTS: Early treatment strategies using NAs with or without first-line PEG-IFN 
provided the highest results (approximately 22 life-years and 15 
quality-adjusted life years [QALYs]). Delayed treatments until cirrhosis 
development resulted in poorer outcomes. The average per-patient lifetime costs 
ranged from €33,500 (TDF in CC) to €68,900 (TDF in CHB). Costs using ETV were 
20-50% higher. First-line PEG-IFN strategies ranged from dominant (that is, more 
effective and less costly) to highly cost-effective, although differences in 
QALYs were always very narrow.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-effectiveness of antiviral therapy of HBeAg-negative CHB 
could be improved significantly using first-line PEG-IFN followed by a switch to 
NAs in either patients meeting the week-12 HBV DNA/HBsAg stopping rule or 
week-48 non-responders/relapsers.

DOI: 10.3851/IMP2555
PMID: 23486701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Iran Red Crescent Med J. 2013 Jan;15(1):42-8. doi: 10.5812/ircmj.4122. Epub
2013  Jan 5.

Assessing the effect of quantitative and qualitative predictors on gastric 
cancer individuals survival using hierarchical artificial neural network models.

Amiri Z(1), Mohammad K, Mahmoudi M, Parsaeian M, Zeraati H.

Author information:
(1)Department Of Basic Sciences, National Nutrition and Food Technology Research 
Institute, Faculty of Nutrition Sciences and Food Technology, Shahid Beheshti 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, IR Iran.

BACKGROUND: There are numerous unanswered questions in the application of 
artificial neural network models for analysis of survival data. In most studies, 
independent variables have been studied as qualitative dichotomous variables, 
and results of using discrete and continuous quantitative, ordinal, or 
multinomial categorical predictive variables in these models are not well 
understood in comparison to conventional models.
OBJECTIVES: This study was designed and conducted to examine the application of 
these models in order to determine the survival of gastric cancer patients, in 
comparison to the Cox proportional hazards model.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied the postoperative survival of 330 gastric 
cancer patients who suffered surgery at a surgical unit of the Iran Cancer 
Institute over a five-year period. Covariates of age, gender, history of 
substance abuse, cancer site, type of pathology, presence of metastasis, stage, 
and number of complementary treatments were entered in the models, and survival 
probabilities were calculated at 6, 12, 18, 24, 36, 48, and 60 months using the 
Cox proportional hazards and neural network models. We estimated coefficients of 
the Cox model and the weights in the neural network (with 3, 5, and 7 nodes in 
the hidden layer) in the training group, and used them to derive predictions in 
the study group. Predictions with these two methods were compared with those of 
the Kaplan-Meier product limit estimator as the gold standard. Comparisons were 
performed with the Friedman and Kruskal-Wallis tests.
RESULTS: Survival probabilities at different times were determined using the Cox 
proportional hazards and a neural network with three nodes in the hidden layer; 
the ratios of standard errors with these two methods to the Kaplan-Meier method 
were 1.1593 and 1.0071, respectively, revealed a significant difference between 
Cox and Kaplan-Meier (P < 0.05) and no significant difference between Cox and 
the neural network, and the neural network and the standard (Kaplan-Meier), as 
well as better accuracy for the neural network (with 3 nodes in the hidden 
layer). Probabilities of survival were calculated using three neural network 
models with 3, 5, and 7 nodes in the hidden layer, and it has been observed that 
none of the predictions was significantly different from results with the 
Kaplan-Meier method and they appeared more comparable towards the last months 
(fifth year). However, we observed better accuracy using the neural network with 
5 nodes in the hidden layer. Using the Cox proportional hazards and a neural 
network with 3 nodes in the hidden layer, we found enhanced accuracy with the 
neural network model.
CONCLUSIONS: Neural networks can provide more accurate predictions for survival 
probabilities compared to the Cox proportional hazards mode, especially now that 
advances in computer sciences have eliminated limitations associated with 
complex computations. It is not recommended in order to adding too many hidden 
layer nodes because sample size related effects can reduce the accuracy. We 
recommend increasing the number of nodes to a point that increased accuracy 
continues (decrease in mean standard error), however increasing nodes should 
cease when a change in this trend is observed.

DOI: 10.5812/ircmj.4122
PMCID: PMC3589778
PMID: 23486933


508. Eur J Public Health. 2013 Oct;23(5):829-33. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt030. Epub
 2013 Mar 13.

Mind the gap--reaching the European target of a 2-year increase in healthy life 
years in the next decade.

Jagger C(1), McKee M, Christensen K, Lagiewka K, Nusselder W, Van Oyen H, 
Cambois E, Jeune B, Robine JM.

Author information:
(1)1 Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle University, UK.

BACKGROUND: The European Innovation Partnership on Active and Healthy Ageing 
seeks an increase of two healthy life years (HLY) at birth in the EU27 for the 
next 10 years. We assess the feasibility of doing so between 2010 and 2020 and 
the differential impact among countries by applying different scenarios to 
current trends in HLY.
METHODS: Data comprised HLY and life expectancy (LE) at birth 2004-09 from 
Eurostat. We estimated HLY in 2010 in each country by multiplying the Eurostat 
projections of LE in 2010 by the ratio HLY/LE obtained either from country and 
sex-specific linear regression models of HLY/LE on year (seven countries 
retaining same HLY question) or extrapolating the average of HLY/LE in 2008 and 
2009 to 2010 (20 countries and EU27). The first scenario continued these trends 
with three other scenarios exploring different HLY gap reductions between 2010 
and 2020.
RESULTS: The estimated gap in HLY in 2010 was 17.5 years (men) and 18.9 years 
(women). Assuming current trends continue, EU27 HLY increased by 1.4 years (men) 
and 0.9 years (women), below the European Innovation Partnership on Active and 
Healthy Ageing target, with the HLY gap between countries increasing to 18.3 
years (men) and 19.5 years (women). To eliminate the HLY gap in 20 years, the 
EU27 must gain 4.4 HLY (men) and 4.8 HLY (women) in the next decade, which, for 
some countries, is substantially more than what the current trends suggest.
CONCLUSION: Global targets for HLY move attention from inter-country differences 
and, alongside the current economic crisis, may contribute to increase health 
inequalities.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt030
PMCID: PMC3784798
PMID: 23487547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2013 Jun;145(6):1493-501; discussion 1501-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.02.030. Epub 2013 Mar 13.

The natural and unnatural history of the systemic right ventricle in adult 
survivors.

Dobson R(1), Danton M, Nicola W, Hamish W.

Author information:
(1)Scottish Adult Congenital and Cardiac Service, Golden Jubilee National 
Hospital, Beardmore Road, Clydebank, Dunbartonshire, United Kingdom. 
richard.dobson@nhs.net

Erratum in
    J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2015 Mar;149(3):950.

OBJECTIVE: The study objective was to evaluate long-term trends in morbidity and 
mortality in a national cohort of adult patients with a systemic right ventricle 
due to the atrial switch for transposition of the great arteries or congenitally 
corrected transposition of the great arteries.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study from a baseline of 18 years, 
including life table and Kaplan-Meier analysis for probability of 
death/transplant, arrhythmia, surgical or percutaneous intervention, and 
permanent pacemaker insertion.
RESULTS: A total of 97 adults with transposition of the great arteries-atrial 
switch (Mustard procedure in 80/Senning procedure in 17) and 32 adults with 
congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries survived. The median 
ages at latest follow-up were 29 and 34 years, respectively. At 40 years of 
follow-up, freedom from death or transplant was 0.90 for those with 
transposition of the great arteries-atrial switch and 0.84 for those with 
congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries (P = .833). Freedom 
from arrhythmia at 40 years of follow-up was 0.51 for those with transposition 
of the great arteries-atrial switch and 0.93 for those with congenitally 
corrected transposition of the great arteries (P = .007). Freedom from 
intervention at 40 years of follow-up was 0.33 for those with transposition of 
the great arteries-atrial switch after initial repair and 0.53 for those with 
congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries (P = .938). Freedom 
from pacemaker insertion at 40 years of follow-up was 0.77 for those with 
transposition of the great arteries-atrial switch and 0.62 for those with 
congenitally corrected transposition of the great arteries (P = .161).
CONCLUSIONS: Those patients who survive to adulthood with a systemic right 
ventricle experience low mortality and good functional status up to 40 years of 
age. However, there is a substantial burden of atrial tachyarrhythmia, and this 
occurs significantly earlier in those with transposition of the great 
arteries-atrial switch. Management of atrial tachyarrhythmia, along with 
systemic right ventricular dysfunction and systemic atrioventricular valve 
regurgitation, is likely to be the major challenge for this group of patients 
over the next decade.

Copyright © 2013 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.02.030
PMID: 23490252 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Med Clin (Barc). 2013 Sep 21;141(6):260-4. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2013.01.016.  Epub 2013 Mar 13.

[Treatment of essential thrombocythemia].

[Article in Spanish]

Alvarez-Larrán A(1), Cervantes F, Besses C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Hematología, Hospital del Mar, Institut Hospital del Mar 
d'Investigacions Mèdiques (IMIM), Universitat Autònoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, 
España. Electronic address: 95967@parcdesalutmar.cat.

Essential thrombocythemia is a chronic myeloproliferative neoplasm characterized 
by sustained thrombocytosis, bone marrow megakaryocytic hyperplasia and an 
increased risk of thrombosis and hemorrhage. The goal of treatment is to prevent 
the development of vascular complications without increasing the risk of 
transformation. Patients aged>60 years or a history of thrombosis have a high 
risk of thrombosis while those with a platelet count>1,500 x 10(9)/l have a 
higher risk of hemorrhage. Patients with low-risk essential thrombocythemia can 
be managed appropriately with low-dose of acetylsalicylic acid or even 
observation only, while patients with a high-risk disease are candidates to 
receive cytoreductive treatment, hydroxyurea being the first choice therapy. 
Anagrelide is the most suitable option for patients with resistance or 
intolerance to hydroxyurea. All patients must be submitted to a rigorous control 
of cardiovascular risk factors.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2013.01.016
PMID: 23490491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Clin Chem Lab Med. 2014 Jan 1;52(1):5-10. doi: 10.1515/cclm-2012-0763.

Role of the Maillard reaction in aging and age-related diseases. Studies at the 
cellular-molecular level.

Robert L, Labat-Robert J.

Increase in life expectancy concerns most populations but more importantly 
developed countries. This increase is accompanied by the shift of chronic 
diseases to the senior population, especially cardiovascular diseases and 
diabetes type II. Aging mechanisms, mostly post-genetic, comprise among others 
the Maillard reaction which strongly contributes by several harmful processes to 
the age-dependent decline of tissue structure and function. Several of these 
mechanisms were studied in our laboratory at the cellular-molecular level and 
will be described in this review with respect to their role in aging and 
age-related pathologies, especially cardiovascular diseases.

DOI: 10.1515/cclm-2012-0763
PMID: 23492562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Genome Biol Evol. 2013;5(4):661-79. doi: 10.1093/gbe/evt037.

Drosophila americana as a model species for comparative studies on the molecular 
basis of phenotypic variation.

Fonseca NA(1), Morales-Hojas R, Reis M, Rocha H, Vieira CP, Nolte V, Schlötterer 
C, Vieira J.

Author information:
(1)EMBL - European Bioinformatics Institute, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Understanding the molecular basis of within and between species phenotypic 
variation is one of the main goals of Biology. In Drosophila, most of the work 
regarding this issue has been performed in D. melanogaster, but other distantly 
related species must also be studied to verify the generality of the findings 
obtained for this species. Here, we make the case for D. americana, a species of 
the virilis group of Drosophila that has been diverging from the model species, 
D. melanogaster, for approximately 40 Myr. To determine the suitability of this 
species for such studies, polymorphism and recombination estimates are presented 
for D. americana based on the largest nucleotide sequence polymorphism data set 
so far analyzed (more than 100 data sets) for this species. The polymorphism 
estimates are also compared with those obtained from the comparison of the 
genome assembly of two D. americana strains (H5 and W11) here reported. As an 
example of the general utility of these resources, we perform a preliminary 
study on the molecular basis of lifespan differences in D. americana. First, we 
show that there are lifespan differences between D. americana populations from 
different regions of the distribution range. Then, we perform five F2 
association experiments using markers for 21 candidate genes previously 
identified in D. melanogaster. Significant associations are found between 
polymorphism at two genes (hep and Lim3) and lifespan. For the F2 association 
study involving the two sequenced strains (H5 and W11), we identify amino acid 
differences at Lim3 and Hep that could be responsible for the observed changes 
in lifespan. For both genes, no large gene expression differences were observed 
between the two strains.

DOI: 10.1093/gbe/evt037
PMCID: PMC3641629
PMID: 23493635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. BMJ. 2013 Mar 14;346:f1687. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f1687.

Europe's life expectancy rises by five years, but health inequalities remain.

Gulland A.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f1687
PMID: 23493829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2013 May;133(5):609-13. doi:
10.1007/s00402-013-1714-9.  Epub 2013 Mar 15.

Multiple drilling compared with standard core decompression for avascular 
necrosis of the femoral head in sickle cell disease patients.

Al Omran A(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, University of Dammam, Dammam, Saudi Arabia. 
alomran_a_s@yahoo.com

INTRODUCTION: Sickle cell disease (SCD) is the most common cause of avascular 
necrosis of femoral head (ANFH) in childhood. Advances in medical treatment led 
to improved life expectancy of such patients. SCD-related ANFH frequently 
progress to total collapse of the femoral head necessitating hip replacement. 
However, SCD patient are at more risk of intra- and post-operative complications 
and suboptimal outcome of total hip arthroplasty. Hence, it is imperative to 
preserve the femoral head as long as possible.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between September 1992 and June 2007, 94 core 
decompression procedures were done to SCD patients who had modified Ficat stage 
I, IIA and IIB ANFH. Sixty one patients underwent a classical 8-mm drilling and 
33 patients underwent 3.2-mm diameter MD technique. Patients were followed up 
for minimum of 2 years and were evaluated for clinical and Harris Hip Score 
improvement and for radiological progression.
RESULTS: All 19 hips that had Ficat stage I had significant reduction of pain 
and improvement of Harris Hip Score. No patient has required further surgery. 
Among the 39 hips with Ficat IIA at time of procedure, 80 % of hips which 
underwent CD and 78 % of MD cases had significant reduction of pain and 
improvement of HHS. Those patients showed no radiographic progression of the 
disease. The remaining, 20 % CD and 22 % MD eventually progressed radiologically 
to grade III or grade IV and had HHS less than 75 at last visit. In the 36 cases 
with Ficat IIB, 52 % CD and 52.8 % MC had significant reduction of pain and 
improvement of HHS. The rest showed no improvement in pain and function, and 
progressed to stage IV; 11 of them underwent THA and one patient refused 
surgery.
CONCLUSION: While multiple drilling is safer and less invasive than single 
coring in SCD, there is no statistically significant difference in outcome or 
complication rate between both procedures done for ANFH in patients with SCD.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-013-1714-9
PMID: 23494112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Aug;14(4):703-5. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0466-3.
Epub  2013 Mar 15.

Do patients registered with CAM-trained GPs really use fewer health care 
resources and live longer? A response to Kooreman and Baars. Eur J Health Econ 
(2012). 13:469-776.

Sampson CJ(1), Whitehurst DG, Street A.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Mental Health, University of Nottingham, UK. 
chris.sampson@nottingham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Aug;14(4):707-8.

Comment on
    Eur J Health Econ. 2012 Dec;13(6):769-76.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0466-3
PMID: 23494525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Demography. 2013 Jun;50(3):777-801. doi: 10.1007/s13524-012-0193-x.

Bayesian probabilistic projections of life expectancy for all countries.

Raftery AE(1), Chunn JL, Gerland P, Sevčíková H.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Statistics and Sociology, University of Washington, Seattle, 
WA, USA. raftery@uw.edu

We propose a Bayesian hierarchical model for producing probabilistic forecasts 
of male period life expectancy at birth for all the countries of the world to 
2100. Such forecasts would be an input to the production of probabilistic 
population projections for all countries, which is currently being considered by 
the United Nations. To evaluate the method, we conducted an out-of-sample 
cross-validation experiment, fitting the model to the data from 1950-1995 and 
using the estimated model to forecast for the subsequent 10 years. The 10-year 
predictions had a mean absolute error of about 1 year, about 40 % less than the 
current UN methodology. The probabilistic forecasts were calibrated in the sense 
that, for example, the 80 % prediction intervals contained the truth about 80 % 
of the time. We illustrate our method with results from Madagascar (a typical 
country with steadily improving life expectancy), Latvia (a country that has had 
a mortality crisis), and Japan (a leading country). We also show aggregated 
results for South Asia, a region with eight countries. Free, publicly available 
R software packages called bayesLife and bayesDem are available to implement the 
method.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-012-0193-x
PMCID: PMC3904289
PMID: 23494599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Am J Med Genet A. 2013 Apr;161A(4):639-41. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35705. Epub
2013  Mar 12.

New therapies for treating Down syndrome require quality of life measurement.

Goodman MJ(1), Brixner DI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacotherapy, Pharmacotherapy Outcomes Research Center, 
University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT 84108, USA. 
michael.goodman@pharm.utah.edu

Down syndrome (DS) is the most common genetic cause of cognitive deficits. Using 
mouse models and therapies for Alzheimer disease, researchers are exploring 
therapies that may improve cognitive function in people with DS. These 
developments shift the health economic paradigm of understanding DS from 
determining the appropriate screening tool to the effect of therapy on quality 
of life in those with DS. To date, there are no validated quality of life 
instruments for DS. Research should begin to develop instruments that can 
evaluate changes in quality of life in therapeutic trials and beyond.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35705
PMID: 23495233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Br J Dermatol. 2013 Jul;169(1):115-24. doi: 10.1111/bjd.12317.

Phenotypic spectrum of epidermolysis bullosa associated with α6β4 integrin 
mutations.

Schumann H(1), Kiritsi D, Pigors M, Hausser I, Kohlhase J, Peters J, Ott H, 
Hyla-Klekot L, Gacka E, Sieron AL, Valari M, Bruckner-Tuderman L, Has C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University Medical Center Freiburg, Hauptstr 7, 
79104 Freiburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Integrin α6β4 is a transmembrane receptor and a key component of the 
hemidesmosome anchoring complex. It is involved in cell-matrix adhesion and 
signalling in various tissues. Mutations in the ITGA6 and ITGB4 genes coding for 
α6β4 integrin compromise dermal-epidermal adhesion and are associated with skin 
blistering and pyloric atresia (PA), a disorder known as epidermolysis bullosa 
with PA (EB-PA).
OBJECTIVES: To elucidate the molecular pathology of skin fragility in eight 
cases, disclose the underlying ITGA6 and ITGB4 mutations and study 
genotype-phenotype correlations.
METHODS: DNA was isolated from ethylenediaminetetraacetic acid-blood samples, 
and the coding exons and exon-intron boundaries of ITGA6 and ITGB4 were 
amplified by polymerase chain reaction (PCR), and directly sequenced. Skin 
samples were submitted to immunofluorescence mapping with antibodies to adhesion 
proteins of the dermal-epidermal junction. Primary keratinocytes were isolated, 
and used for RNA and protein extraction, reverse transcription PCR and 
immunoblotting. Ultrastructural analysis of the skin was performed in one 
patient.
RESULTS: We disclose 10 novel mutations, one in ITGA6 and nine in ITGB4. Skin 
cleavage was either intraepidermal or junctional. Lethal outcome and PA 
correlated with loss-of-function mutations in two cases. Solely mild skin 
involvement was associated with deletion of the C-terminus of β4 integrin. 
Combinations of missense, nonsense or frameshift mutations caused severe urinary 
tract involvement in addition to skin fragility in five cases.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study reveals novel ITGA6 and ITGB4 gene mutations and 
supports previous reports showing that the phenotype may lack PA and be limited 
to skin and nail involvement. In four out of six cases of EB-PA, life expectancy 
was not impaired. A high frequency of urinary tract involvement was found in 
this study, and represented the main cause of morbidity. Low levels of β4 
integrin expression were compatible with hemidesmosomal integrity and a mild 
skin phenotype.

© 2013 The Authors BJD © 2013 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.12317
PMID: 23496044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. World J Surg Oncol. 2013 Mar 5;11:55. doi: 10.1186/1477-7819-11-55.

Leptomeningeal and intramedullary metastases of glioblastoma multiforme in a 
patient reoperated during adjuvant radiochemotherapy.

Grah JJ(1), Katalinic D, Stern-Padovan R, Paladino J, Santek F, Juretic A, 
Zarkovic K, Plestina S, Supe M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, University Hospital Centre (KBC Zagreb), University 
of Zagreb School of Medicine, Kispaticeva 12, Zagreb HR-10000, Croatia. 
josipjoachimgrah@yahoo.com

Despite huge advances in medicine, glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) remains a 
highly lethal, fast-growing tumour that cannot be cured by currently available 
therapies. However, extracranial and extraneural dissemination of GBM is 
extremely rare, but is being recognised in different imaging studies. To date, 
the cause of the GBM metastatic spread still remains under discussion. It 
probably develops at the time of intracranial progression following a surgical 
procedure. According to other hypothesis, the metastases are a consequence of 
spontaneous tumour transdural extension or haematogenous dissemination. We 
present a case of a 59-year-old woman with symptomatic leptomeningeal and 
intramedullary metastases of GBM who has been previously surgically treated with 
primary subtotal resection and underwent a repeated surgery during adjuvant 
radiotherapy and chemotherapy with temozolomide. Today, the main goal of surgery 
and chemoradiotherapy is to prevent neurologic deterioration and improve 
health-related quality of life. With this paper, we want to present this rare 
entity and emphasise the importance of a multidisciplinary approach, a key 
function in the management of brain tumour patients. The prognosis is still very 
poor although prolongation of survival can be obtained. Finally, although rare, 
our case strongly suggests that clinicians should be familiar with the 
possibility of the extracranial spread of GBM because as treatment improvements 
provide better control of the primary tumour and improving survival, metastatic 
disease will be increasingly encountered.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7819-11-55
PMCID: PMC3599050
PMID: 23496844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. BMC Med Res Methodol. 2013 Mar 9;13:36. doi: 10.1186/1471-2288-13-36.

A nonparametric random coefficient approach for life expectancy growth using a 
hierarchical mixture likelihood model with application to regional data from 
North Rhine-Westphalia (Germany).

Böhning D(1), Karasek S, Terschüren C, Annuß R, Fehr R.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Statistical Sciences Research Institute, Mathematics and 
Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK. 
d.a.bohning@soton.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy is of increasing prime interest for a variety of 
reasons. In many countries, life expectancy is growing linearly, without any 
indication of reaching a limit. The state of North Rhine-Westphalia (NRW) in 
Germany with its 54 districts is considered here where the above mentioned 
growth in life expectancy is occurring as well. However, there is also empirical 
evidence that life expectancy is not growing linearly at the same level for 
different regions.
METHODS: To explore this situation further a likelihood-based cluster analysis 
is suggested and performed. The modelling uses a nonparametric mixture approach 
for the latent random effect. Maximum likelihood estimates are determined by 
means of the EM algorithm and the number of components in the mixture model are 
found on the basis of the Bayesian Information Criterion. Regions are classified 
into the mixture components (clusters) using the maximum posterior allocation 
rule.
RESULTS: For the data analyzed here, 7 components are found with a spatial 
concentration of lower life expectancy levels in a centre of NRW, formerly an 
enormous conglomerate of heavy industry, still the most densely populated area 
with Gelsenkirchen having the lowest level of life expectancy growth for both 
genders. The paper offers some explanations for this fact including demographic 
and socio-economic sources.
CONCLUSIONS: This case study shows that life expectancy growth is widely linear, 
but it might occur on different levels.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2288-13-36
PMCID: PMC3637836
PMID: 23497036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Environ Health. 2013 Mar 6;12:21. doi: 10.1186/1476-069X-12-21.

The work environment disability-adjusted life year for use with life cycle 
assessment: a methodological approach.

Scanlon KA(1), Gray GM, Francis RA, Lloyd SM, LaPuma P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental and Occupational Health, School of Public Health 
and Health Services, The George Washington University, Washington, DC, USA. 
kscan3@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Life cycle assessment (LCA) is a systems-based method used to 
determine potential impacts to the environment associated with a product 
throughout its life cycle. Conclusions from LCA studies can be applied to 
support decisions regarding product design or public policy, therefore, all 
relevant inputs (e.g., raw materials, energy) and outputs (e.g., emissions, 
waste) to the product system should be evaluated to estimate impacts. Currently, 
work-related impacts are not routinely considered in LCA. The objectives of this 
paper are: 1) introduce the work environment disability-adjusted life year 
(WE-DALY), one portion of a characterization factor used to express the 
magnitude of impacts to human health attributable to work-related exposures to 
workplace hazards; 2) outline the methods for calculating the WE-DALY; 3) 
demonstrate the calculation; and 4) highlight strengths and weaknesses of the 
methodological approach.
METHODS: The concept of the WE-DALY and the methodological approach to its 
calculation is grounded in the World Health Organization's disability-adjusted 
life year (DALY). Like the DALY, the WE-DALY equation considers the years of 
life lost due to premature mortality and the years of life lived with disability 
outcomes to estimate the total number of years of healthy life lost in a 
population. The equation requires input in the form of the number of fatal and 
nonfatal injuries and illnesses that occur in the industries relevant to the 
product system evaluated in the LCA study, the age of the worker at the time of 
the fatal or nonfatal injury or illness, the severity of the injury or illness, 
and the duration of time lived with the outcomes of the injury or illness.
RESULTS: The methodological approach for the WE-DALY requires data from various 
sources, multi-step instructions to determine each variable used in the WE-DALY 
equation, and assumptions based on professional opinion.
CONCLUSIONS: Results support the use of the WE-DALY in a characterization factor 
in LCA. Integrating occupational health into LCA studies will provide 
opportunities to prevent shifting of impacts between the work environment and 
the environment external to the workplace and co-optimize human health, to 
include worker health, and environmental health.

DOI: 10.1186/1476-069X-12-21
PMCID: PMC3599928
PMID: 23497039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. BMC Int Health Hum Rights. 2013 Mar 8;13:16. doi: 10.1186/1472-698X-13-16.

Social factors associated with centenarian rate (CR) in 32 OECD countries.

Kim JI(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health and Welfare, Wonkwang University, Iksan, Republic of 
Korea. kji122@wku.ac.kr

Erratum in
    BMC Int Health Hum Rights. 2013;13:26.

BACKGROUND: Over the last fifty years, the number of centenarians has 
dramatically increased. The centenarian rate (CR) is representative of the 
general longevity prevalent in a nation; it indicates the number of individuals 
aged 100 years or above at a given date divided by the size of the corresponding 
cohort of a given age. Two important attributes of the CR (50-54) are that it 
reflects both unchanged age-specific fertility and the absence of migration in 
populations. It can generally be used in longevity-based evaluations of the 
broader concept of successful ageing. As such, this retrospective analysis of 
the social factors that contribute to the CR (50-54) may help to identify the 
factors associated with successful ageing.This study estimates the CR (50-54) 
and elucidates the influence of social factors on successful ageing and the CR 
(50-54), examining 32 member countries of the Organization for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD).
METHODS: The social indicators for this study were obtained from the United 
Nations database. The data for the analysis of centenarians in the 32 OECD 
countries were obtained from the world population prospects conducted by the 
United Nations. Associations between social factors and CR (50-54) were assessed 
using Pearson correlation coefficients and regression models.
RESULTS: Significant positive correlations were found between the CR (50-54) and 
the social factors of expenditure on health as a percentage of gross domestic 
product (HEGDP: r = 0.411, p < 0.021), general government expenditure on health 
as a percentage of total government expenditure (GGEH: r = 0.474, p < 0.006), 
the proportion of fixed-telephone subscriptions in the population (FTS: 
r = 0.489, p < 0.005), and the human development index (HDI: r = 0.486, 
p < 0.005). Finally, these CR (50-54) predictors were used to form a model of 
successful ageing, with higher HEGDP and GGEH as health expenditure, higher FTS 
as standard of living, and higher HDI as social well-being (R2 = 0.573, 
P < 0.025).
CONCLUSIONS: The findings suggest that an increased CR (50-54) is affected by 
multiple social factors involved in successful ageing. Therefore, if they wish 
to improve their country's CR (50-54), governments must strengthen their 
existing support services for the elderly through making improvements to 
standards of living, social well-being and through increased financing of the 
health sector.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-698X-13-16
PMCID: PMC3599594
PMID: 23497053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. BMC Pregnancy Childbirth. 2013 Mar 9;13:61. doi: 10.1186/1471-2393-13-61.

Preeclampsia and long-term risk of cardiovascular disease: what do 
obstetrician-gynecologists know?

Heidrich MB(1), Wenzel D, von Kaisenberg CS, Schippert C, von Versen-Höynck FM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Hannover Medical School, 
Carl-Neuberg-Str, 1, Hannover, 30625, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Preeclampsia (PE), a hypertensive disorder of pregnancy affects 2-8% 
of women and is associated with increased cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk 
later in life. There is little information about the knowledge of 
obstetrician-gynecologists in German outpatient care setting regarding the 
future health risk of PE and knowledge of the current guidelines on treatment 
and counseling patients post PE. This study aimed to assess whether 
obstetrician-gynecologists are aware of PE's association with maternal long-term 
adverse outcomes and providing appropriate counseling.
METHODS: A random sample of 500 obstetrician-gynecologists in the federal state 
of Lower Saxony was mailed a survey and a reminder with a second copy of the 
survey. The questionnaire elicited both personal information, and knowledge on 
future disease risks, e.g. cardiovascular disease (CVD) and current guidelines 
as well as on counseling practice. Descriptive analysis was used to analyze the 
responses.
RESULTS: A total of 212 obstetrician-gynecologists (42.4%) responded to the 
questionnaire. A large proportion of physicians stated that PE was associated 
with a higher risk for the development for hypertension (86.6%), stroke (78.5%) 
and kidney disease (78.0%). Of the participants 75.8% reported that women after 
PE have a shorter life expectancy. Respondents with knowledge of the current 
guidelines of the German Association of Obstetrics and Gynecology concerning 
follow up and risk management of PE (45.2%) were more often aware of the 
development of CVD and stroke and counseled patients on self -blood-pressure 
measurement, meaning and long-term-risks of PE and attached importance to family 
history of PE compared to physicians with no knowledge of the guidelines.
CONCLUSION: Although the majority of obstetrician-gynecologists were aware of 
higher CVD risk after PE, weaknesses exist in the follow up care and counseling 
of these patients. These deficiencies would be amendable to directed educational 
activities to improve the implementation of current guidelines.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2393-13-61
PMCID: PMC3605330
PMID: 23497157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2013 Mar 9;13:16. doi: 10.1186/1471-2261-13-16.

Trial Protocol: a randomised controlled trial of extended anticoagulation 
treatment versus routine anticoagulation treatment for the prevention of 
recurrent VTE and post thrombotic syndrome in patients being treated for a first 
episode of unprovoked VTE (The ExACT Study).

Tullett J(1), Murray E, Nichols L, Holder R, Lester W, Rose P, Hobbs FD, 
Fitzmaurice D.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Clinical Sciences, School of Health and Population Sciences, 
University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK.

BACKGROUND: Venous thromboembolism comprising pulmonary embolism and deep vein 
thrombosis is a common condition with an incidence of approximately 1 per 1,000 
per annum causing both mortality and serious morbidity. The principal aim of 
treatment of a venous thromboembolism with heparin and warfarin is to prevent 
extension or recurrence of clot. However, the recurrence rate following a deep 
vein thrombosis remains approximately 10% per annum following treatment 
cessation irrespective of the duration of anticoagulation therapy. Patients with 
raised D-dimer levels after discontinuing oral anticoagulation treatment have 
also been shown to be at high risk of recurrence.Post thrombotic syndrome is a 
complication of a deep vein thrombosis which can lead to chronic venous 
insufficiency and ulceration. It has a cumulative incidence after 2 years of 
around 25% and it has been suggested that extended oral anticoagulation should 
be investigated as a possible preventative measure.
METHODS/DESIGN: Patients with a first idiopathic venous thromboembolism will be 
recruited through anticoagulation clinics and randomly allocated to either 
continuing or discontinuing warfarin treatment for a further 2 years and 
followed up on a six monthly basis. At each visit D-dimer levels will be 
measured using a Roche Cobas h 232 POC device. In addition a venous sample will 
be taken for laboratory D-dimer analysis at the end of the study. Patients will 
be examined for signs and symptoms of PTS using the Villalta scale and complete 
VEINES and EQ5D quality of life questionnaires.
DISCUSSION: The primary aim of the study is to investigate whether extending 
oral anticoagulation treatment (prior to discontinuing treatment) beyond 3-6 
months for patients with a first unprovoked proximal deep vein thrombosis or 
pulmonary embolism prevents recurrence. The study will also determine the role 
of extending anticoagulation for patients with elevated D-dimer levels prior to 
discontinuing treatment and identify the potential of D-dimer point of care 
testing for identification of high risk patients within a primary care setting.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN73819751.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2261-13-16
PMCID: PMC3602651
PMID: 23497371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2013 Mar 11;13:18. doi: 10.1186/1471-2261-13-18.

Non-invasive endothelial function assessment in patients with neurofibromatosis 
type 1: a cross-sectional study.

Rodrigues LO(1), Rodrigues LO, Castro LL, Rezende NA, Ribeiro AL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Federal University of Minas Gerais, Av, 
Prof, Alfredo Balena, 190-246, Belo Horizonte, MG, Cep:30130-100, Brazil. 
draluizarodrigues@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a multi-systemic disease caused by 
neurofibromin deficiency. The reduced life expectancy of patients with NF1 has 
been attributed to NF1-associated malignant neoplasms. However, an analysis of 
death certificates in the USA suggests that vascular disease could be an 
important cause of early death among these patients. Endothelial dysfunction 
(ED) is related to vasculopathy and is an early marker of subclinical 
atherosclerosis. Since neurofibromin has already been demonstrated to affect 
endothelial cell function, ED may be associated with NF1. The purpose of this 
study was to assess endothelial function in patients with NF1 using a 
non-invasive method.
METHODS: NF1 patients and healthy control subjects, aged 18 to 35 years, were 
included. Subjects were excluded if they had any risk factor for vascular 
disease or any other condition known to affect endothelial function. Endothelial 
function was assessed using reactive hyperemia-peripheral arterial tone (RH-PAT) 
technology. ED was defined as a reactive hyperemia index (RHI) lower than 1.35.
RESULTS: Four of the 29 (13.8%) NF1 patients and 1 of the 30 (3.3%) healthy 
volunteers had ED (p=0.153). RHI medians and interquartile intervals were 1.8 
(1.58-2.43) for the NF1 group and 2.02 (1.74-2.49) for the control group 
(p=0.361).
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of ED was similar in NF1 patients and healthy 
controls.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2261-13-18
PMCID: PMC3606630
PMID: 23497412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Trials. 2013 Mar 12;14:71. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-71.

Piloting a manualised weight management programme (Shape Up-LD) for overweight 
and obese persons with mild-moderate learning disabilities: study protocol for a 
pilot randomised controlled trial.

Beeken RJ(1), Spanos D, Fovargue S, Hunter R, Omar R, Hassiotis A, King M, 
Wardle J, Croker H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology & Public Health, University College London, 1-19 
Torrington Place, London, WC1E 6BT, UK. r.beeken@ucl.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: National obesity rates have dramatically risen over the last decade. 
Being obese significantly reduces life expectancy, increases the risk of a range 
of diseases, and compromises quality of life. Costs to both the National Health 
Service and society are high. An increased prevalence of obesity in people with 
learning disabilities has been demonstrated. The consequences of obesity are 
particularly relevant to people with learning disabilities who are already 
confronted by health and social inequalities. In order to provide healthcare for 
all, and ensure equality of treatment for people with learning disabilities, 
services must be developed specifically with this population in mind. The aim of 
this project is to pilot the evaluation of a manualised weight management 
programme for overweight and obese persons with mild-moderate learning 
disabilities (Shape Up-LD).
METHODS/DESIGN: An individually randomised, controlled pilot trial in 60 
overweight and obese (body mass index ≥ 25) adults (age ≥ 18) with mild-moderate 
learning disabilities and their carers will be carried out, comparing "Shape 
Up-LD" with usual care. The manualised Shape Up-LD intervention will involve 12 
weekly sessions, which include healthy eating messages, advice on physical 
activity and use of behaviour change techniques to help people manage their 
weight. Assessments of participants will be conducted at baseline, 12 weeks and 
6 months. Service users and their carers and service providers will also give 
their perspectives on the experience of Shape Up-LD in qualitative interviews at 
12 weeks. Feasibility outcomes will include recruitment rates, loss to 
follow-up, compliance rates, completion rates, collection of information for a 
cost-effectiveness analysis and an estimation of the treatment effect on weight.
DISCUSSION: The findings from this study will inform our preparation for a 
definitive randomised controlled trial to test the efficacy of the programme 
with respect to weight loss and maintenance in this population. Weight loss 
through Shape Up-LD could lead to improvements in health and quality of life. 
Costs to the National Health Service might be reduced through decreased overall 
service use because of improved health. The programme would also ensure a more 
equitable service for overweight service users with learning disabilities and 
fill the current gap in weight management services for this population.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial No 
ISRCTN39605930.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-71
PMCID: PMC3605362
PMID: 23497560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Eur Urol. 2013 Sep;64(3):361-9. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2013.02.040. Epub 2013
Mar  7.

Comparative cost-effectiveness of robot-assisted and standard laparoscopic 
prostatectomy as alternatives to open radical prostatectomy for treatment of men 
with localised prostate cancer: a health technology assessment from the 
perspective of the UK National Health Service.

Close A(1), Robertson C, Rushton S, Shirley M, Vale L, Ramsay C, Pickard R.

Author information:
(1)School of Biology, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2013 Sep;64(3):370-1.

BACKGROUND: Robot-assisted laparoscopic prostatectomy is increasingly used 
compared with a standard laparoscopic technique, but it remains uncertain 
whether potential benefits offset higher costs.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of robotic prostatectomy.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: We conducted a care pathway description and 
model-based cost-utility analysis. We studied men with localised prostate cancer 
able to undergo either robotic or laparoscopic prostatectomy for cure. We used 
data from a meta-analysis, other published literature, and costs from the UK 
National Health Service and commercial sources.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Care received by men for 10 yr 
following radical prostatectomy was modelled. Clinical events, their effect on 
quality of life, and associated costs were synthesised assuming 200 procedures 
were performed annually.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Over 10 yr, robotic prostatectomy was on average (95% 
