625. Clin Ther. 2013 Aug;35(8):1110-1117.e9. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2013.06.015.  Epub 2013 Jul 26.

Cost-effectiveness of 12-month treatment with ticagrelor compared with 
clopidogrel in the management of acute coronary syndromes.

Liew D(1), De Abreu Lourenço R, Adena M, Chim L, Aylward P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (RMH), University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia. 
danny.liew@mh.org.au

BACKGROUND: The PLATO (Platelet Inhibition and Patient Outcomes) randomized 
trial (NCT00391872) in patients with acute coronary syndromes (ACS) reported 
that ticagrelor (in addition to aspirin) reduced the rate of the composite end 
point of myocardial infarction (MI), stroke, or cardiovascular death compared 
with clopidogrel (in addition to aspirin) by 16% over 12 months (P < 0.001). No 
significant difference in the incidence of major bleeding was noted, but 
ticagrelor was associated with a higher rate of major bleeding not related to 
coronary artery bypass grafting.
OBJECTIVE: By extrapolating the key findings of PLATO, we sought to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel in the management of 
ACS in a contemporary Australian setting.
METHODS: A Markov model with 4 health states (free from further ACS events, MI, 
stroke, and death) was developed to simulate the long-term costs and outcomes 
associated with ACS. Event risks were based on data derived directly from PLATO, 
and costs and utilities were drawn from published sources. A 10-year time 
horizon was simulated, and future costs and benefits were discounted at a 5% 
annual rate. However, treatment with ticagrelor and clopidogrel was only assumed 
for the first 12 months, with no benefits applied beyond drug cessation. 
Sensitivity analyses were undertaken based on variations to key data inputs. All 
costs for resource use applied in the analysis were based on published 
Australian prices (in 2010/2011 dollars [A$]).
RESULTS: Over 10 years, the estimated quality-adjusted life-years lived 
per-patient were 5.74 and 5.68 for ticagrelor and clopidogrel, respectively. Net 
costs were A$19,132 for ticagrelor and A$18,428 for clopidogrel. These equated 
to an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of A$9031 per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained for ticagrelor compared with clopidogrel. Sensitivity analyses 
indicated the result to be robust.
CONCLUSIONS: When assessed from the perspective of the Australian health care 
system, ticagrelor is likely to be cost-effective compared with clopidogrel in 
preventing downstream morbidity and mortality associated with ACS.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2013.06.015
PMID: 23891361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Integr Comp Biol. 2013 Dec;53(6):965-74. doi: 10.1093/icb/ict085. Epub 2013
Jul  26.

Using physiology to predict the responses of ants to climatic warming.

Diamond SE(1), Penick CA, Pelini SL, Ellison AM, Gotelli NJ, Sanders NJ, Dunn 
RR.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Biology, North Carolina State University, Raleigh, NC 27695, 
USA; Department of Biology, Bowling Green State University, Bowling Green, OH 
43403, USA; Harvard Forest, Petersham, MA 01366, USA; Department of Biology, 
University of Vermont, Burlington, VT 05405, USA; Department of Ecology and 
Evolutionary Biology, University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN 37996, USA.

Physiological intolerance of high temperatures places limits on organismal 
responses to the temperature increases associated with global climatic change. 
Because ants are geographically widespread, ecologically diverse, and 
thermophilic, they are an ideal system for exploring the extent to which 
physiological tolerance can predict responses to environmental change. Here, we 
expand on simple models that use thermal tolerance to predict the responses of 
ants to climatic warming. We investigated the degree to which changes in the 
abundance of ants under warming reflect reductions in the thermal niche space 
for their foraging. In an eastern deciduous forest system in the United States 
with approximately 40 ant species, we found that for some species, the loss of 
thermal niche space for foraging was related to decreases in abundance with 
increasing experimental climatic warming. However, many ant species exhibited no 
loss of thermal niche space. For one well-studied species, Temnothorax 
curvispinosus, we examined both survival of workers and growth of colonies (a 
correlate of reproductive output) as functions of temperature in the laboratory, 
and found that the range of thermal tolerances for colony growth was much 
narrower than for survival of workers. We evaluated these functions in the 
context of experimental climatic warming and found that the difference in the 
responses of these two attributes to temperature generates differences in the 
means and especially the variances of expected fitness under warming. The 
expected mean growth of colonies was optimized at intermediate levels of warming 
(2-4°C above ambient); yet, the expected variance monotonically increased with 
warming. In contrast, the expected mean and variance of the survival of workers 
decreased when warming exceeded 4°C above ambient. Together, these results for 
T. curvispinosus emphasize the importance of measuring reproduction (colony 
growth) in the context of climatic change: indeed, our examination of the loss 
of thermal niche space with the larger species pool could be missing much of the 
warming impact due to these analyses being based on survival rather than 
reproduction. We suggest that while physiological tolerance of temperature can 
be a useful predictive tool for modeling responses to climatic change, future 
efforts should be devoted to understanding the causes and consequences of 
variability in models of tolerance calibrated with different metrics of 
performance and fitness.

DOI: 10.1093/icb/ict085
PMID: 23892370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Osteoporos Int. 2014 Feb;25(2):551-8. doi: 10.1007/s00198-013-2450-2. Epub
2013  Jul 27.

Changes in thigh muscle volume predict bone mineral density response to 
lifestyle therapy in frail, obese older adults.

Armamento-Villareal R(1), Aguirre L, Napoli N, Shah K, Hilton T, Sinacore DR, 
Qualls C, Villareal DT.

Author information:
(1)New Mexico VA Health Care System, Albuquerque, NM, USA.

We studied the relationships among strength, muscle mass, and bone mineral 
density (BMD) with lifestyle change. Lifestyle therapy consisted of exercise, 
diet, and diet plus exercise. Diet was by caloric restriction to induce and 
maintain a weight loss of 10 % from baseline body weight. Exercise attenuated 
weight loss-induced muscle and bone losses. Exercise improved strength despite 
muscle loss in patients on diet and exercise. Changes in strength did not 
correlate with changes in BMD. However, changes in thigh muscle volume 
correlated with, and predicted changes in hip BMD.
INTRODUCTION: Losses of hip BMD and lean body mass are major complications of 
lifestyle therapy in frail, obese older adults; however, the contribution of 
mechanical strain loss from muscle loss is poorly defined. We determined the 
effect of changes in thigh muscle volume and muscle strength on BMD in frail, 
obese older adults undergoing lifestyle therapy aimed at intentional weight loss 
with or without exercise.
METHODS: One hundred seven obese older adults were randomized to control, diet, 
exercise, and diet-exercise groups for 1 year. Thigh muscle volume was measured 
by magnetic resonance imaging, BMD by DXA, knee strength by dynamometry, total 
strength by one-repetition maximum (1-RM), and bone markers by immunoassay.
RESULTS: Thigh muscle volume decreased in the diet group (-6.2 ± 4.8 %) and 
increased in the exercise group (2.7 ± 3.1 %), while it was not significantly 
different from the control in the diet-exercise group. Changes in hip BMD 
followed similar pattern as those in thigh muscle volume. Knee extension and 
flexion increased in the exercise group (23 ± 20 %; 25 ± 19 %) and diet-exercise 
group (20 ± 19 %; 20.6 ± 27 %) but were unchanged in the control and diet 
groups. Changes in thigh muscle volume correlated with changes in hip BMD (r = 
0.55, P = <0.001) and were an independent predictor of changes in hip BMD (β = 
0.12, P = 0.03) in the multiple regression analyses after accounting for 
demographic factors and changes in weight and physical activity. There were no 
correlations between BMD changes and knee strength, 1-RM, and sclerostin 
changes.
CONCLUSIONS: Changes in thigh muscle volume predict hip BMD changes in obese 
older patients undergoing lifestyle therapy. The effect of exercise in 
attenuating thigh muscle loss when added to diet may in part account for the 
reduction in weight loss-induced bone loss in the diet-exercise group.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-013-2450-2
PMCID: PMC3903658
PMID: 23892583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest The authors have no 
conflicts of interests.


628. Neuroinformatics. 2014 Jan;12(1):181-208. doi: 10.1007/s12021-013-9197-y.

Template construction grammar: from visual scene description to language 
comprehension and agrammatism.

Barrès V(1), Lee J.

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Graduate Program and USC Brain Project, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, CA, USA, barres@usc.edu.

How does the language system coordinate with our visual system to yield flexible 
integration of linguistic, perceptual, and world-knowledge information when we 
communicate about the world we perceive? Schema theory is a computational 
framework that allows the simulation of perceptuo-motor coordination programs on 
the basis of known brain operating principles such as cooperative computation 
and distributed processing. We present first its application to a model of 
language production, SemRep/TCG, which combines a semantic representation of 
visual scenes (SemRep) with Template Construction Grammar (TCG) as a means to 
generate verbal descriptions of a scene from its associated SemRep graph. 
SemRep/TCG combines the neurocomputational framework of schema theory with the 
representational format of construction grammar in a model linking eye-tracking 
data to visual scene descriptions. We then offer a conceptual extension of TCG 
to include language comprehension and address data on the role of both world 
knowledge and grammatical semantics in the comprehension performances of 
agrammatic aphasic patients. This extension introduces a distinction between 
heavy and light semantics. The TCG model of language comprehension offers a 
computational framework to quantitatively analyze the distributed dynamics of 
language processes, focusing on the interactions between grammatical, world 
knowledge, and visual information. In particular, it reveals interesting 
implications for the understanding of the various patterns of comprehension 
performances of agrammatic aphasics measured using sentence-picture matching 
tasks. This new step in the life cycle of the model serves as a basis for 
exploring the specific challenges that neurolinguistic computational modeling 
poses to the neuroinformatics community.

DOI: 10.1007/s12021-013-9197-y
PMID: 23893006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Cancer Genomics Proteomics. 2013 Jul-Aug;10(4):155-68.

The emerging role of new protein scaffold-based agents for treatment of cancer.

Weidle UH(1), Auer J, Brinkmann U, Georges G, Tiefenthaler G.

Author information:
(1)Roche Pharma Research and Early Development, Roche Diagnostics GmbH, 
Nonnenwald 2, D-82372 Penzberg, Germany. ulrich.weidle@roche.com

In order to overcome limitations of monoclonal antibodies, new protein-based 
scaffolds have been designed and evaluated pre-clinically, and some of them are 
in clinical studies for the treatment of cancer. These entities can be placed 
into two categories: scaffolds which bind ligands via amino acids in exposed 
loops and those in which ligand binding is mediated by amino acids in secondary 
structures, such as β-sheet modules. Accordingly, we discuss adnectins, 
lipocalins, Kunitz domain-based binders, avimers, knottins, fynomers, atrimers 
and cytotoxic T-lymphocyte associated protein-4 (CTLA4)-based binders which fall 
into the first category, while darpins, affibodies, affilins and armadillo 
repeat protein-based scaffolds are members of the second category. In addition, 
we also discuss the new molecular entities as imaging tools and outline their 
unique characteristics in the context of multimeric and multivalent binding.

PMID: 23893924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Pest Manag Sci. 2014 May;70(5):805-13. doi: 10.1002/ps.3618. Epub 2013 Aug
19.

Population and damage projection of Spodoptera litura (F.) on peanuts 
(Arachis hypogaea L.) under different conditions using the age-stage, two-sex 
life table.

Tuan SJ(1), Lee CC, Chi H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung, Taiwan, 
Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: The common cutworm, Spodoptera litura (Fabricus), is the most 
serious pest of peanuts in Taiwan. In order to devise an ecology-based and 
cost-effective control program, we collected life table data and consumption 
rates from larvae reared indoors at a constant temperature of 25°C, or outdoors 
at ambient temperatures during the spring and fall of 2010. A computer 
simulation was then used to project the population growth and damage potential 
of S. litura on peanuts.
RESULTS: Laboratory-reared S. litura individuals produced 3548 eggs/female, 
whereas those reared outdoors produced 3452 and 3072 eggs/female in the spring 
and fall, respectively. The intrinsic rate of increase was 0.1828, 0.1308 and 
0.1545 day(-1), and the net consumption rate was 194.0, 132.2 and 166.6 cm(2) 
larva(-1) at 25°C, in spring and fall, respectively. Population projection 
showed a faster growth and higher damage potential of S. litura in the fall.
CONCLUSION: Population projections based on life tables and stage-specific 
consumption rates can reveal the stage structure and damage potential of the 
pest population. Our results showed that monitoring data obtained by using 
pheromone traps were not in concordance with the damage potential of the pest 
population. This approach offers a promising tool for pest management.

© 2013 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/ps.3618
PMID: 23893943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. J Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2015 Mar;9(3):210-23. doi: 10.1002/term.1746. Epub
2013  Jul 25.

Cell therapy for cystic fibrosis.

Murphy SV(1), Atala A.

Author information:
(1)Wake Forest Institute for Regenerative Medicine, Wake Forest University 
Health Sciences, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.

Currently there is no cure for cystic fibrosis (CF). Treatments are focused on 
addressing the disease symptoms, with varying degrees of success. Regenerative 
medicine holds the promise of regenerating dysfunctional or damaged tissues and 
to enhance the body's own endogenous repair mechanisms. The discovery of 
endogenous and exogenous stem cells has provided valuable tools for development 
of novel treatments for CF. The ability of stem cells to differentiate into 
functional pulmonary cells, modulate inflammatory responses and contribute to 
pulmonary function has provided researchers with multiple approaches to develop 
effective treatment strategies. Several approaches show promise to produce 
viable therapeutic treatments to treat the underlying cause of CF, reduce the 
symptoms and mitigate long-term damage, and generate functional replacement 
organs for end-stage transplantation. This review provides an overview of the 
rapidly progressing field of cell therapy for CF, focusing on the various cell 
types utilized and current strategies that show promise to improve life 
expectancy and quality of life for CF patients.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/term.1746
PMID: 23894126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2013 Aug;43(8):846-7. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyt107.

Estimated Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY) in Asia in GLOBOCAN 2008.

Machii R(1), Saika K.

Author information:
(1)Screening Assessment and Management Division, Research Center for Cancer 
Prevention and Screening, National Cancer Center, Tokyo, Japan.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyt107
PMID: 23894205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Open Neurol J. 2013 May 31;7:23-31. doi: 10.2174/1874205X01307010023. Print 
2013.

Antipsychotic drugs opposite to metabolic risk: neurotransmitters, neurohormonal 
and pharmacogenetic mechanisms underlying with weight gain and metabolic 
syndrome.

Milano W(1), De Rosa M, Milano L, Capasso A.

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Unit- District 24 - ASL Napoli 1 Center, Italy.

Important sources of metabolic diseases such as obesity and metabolic syndrome 
are significantly more prevalent in patients treated with antipsychotic drugs 
than the general population and they not only reduce the quality of life but 
also significantly reduce the life expectancy, being important risk factors for 
cardiovascular disease. The pathogenic mechanisms underlying these events are 
not entirely clear they are complex and multi-determined or not tied to a single 
defining event. In this review we examine the literature on the interactions of 
antipsychotic drugs with neurotransmitters in the brain, with pharmacogenetics 
hormones and peripheral mechanisms that may induce, albeit in different ways 
between different molecules, not only weight gain but also 'onset of major 
diseases such as diabetes, dyslipidemia and hypertension that are the basis of 
the metabolic syndrome. Today, the possible metabolic changes induced by various 
antipsychotic drugs and their major physical health consequences, are among the 
major concerns of clinicians and it is therefore necessary to monitor the main 
metabolic parameters to prevent or minimize any of these patients as well as the 
metabolism events associated with the use of antipsychotic drugs.

DOI: 10.2174/1874205X01307010023
PMCID: PMC3722531
PMID: 23894259


634. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 24;8(7):e69179. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069179. Print 
2013.

Against all odds: genocidal trauma is associated with longer life-expectancy of 
the survivors.

Sagi-Schwartz A(1), Bakermans-Kranenburg MJ, Linn S, van Ijzendoorn MH.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Study of Child Development and Department of Psychology, 
University of Haifa, Haifa, Israel. sagi@psy.haifa.ac.il

Does surviving genocidal experiences, like the Holocaust, lead to shorter 
life-expectancy? Such an effect is conceivable given that most survivors not 
only suffered psychosocial trauma but also malnutrition, restriction in hygienic 
and sanitary facilities, and lack of preventive medical and health services, 
with potentially damaging effects for later health and life-expectancy. We 
explored whether genocidal survivors have a higher risk to die younger than 
comparisons without such background. This is the first population-based 
retrospective cohort study of the Holocaust, based on the entire population of 
immigrants from Poland to Israel (N = 55,220), 4-20 years old when the World War 
II started (1939), immigrating to Israel either between 1945 and 1950 (Holocaust 
group) or before 1939 (comparison group; not exposed to the Holocaust). Hazard 
of death - a long-term outcome of surviving genocidal trauma - was derived from 
the population-wide official data base of the National Insurance Institute of 
Israel. Cox regression yielded a significant hazard ratio (HR = 0.935, CI 
(95%) = 0.910-0.960), suggesting that the risk of death was reduced by 6.5 
months for Holocaust survivors compared to non-Holocaust comparisons. The lower 
hazard was most substantial in males who were aged 10-15 (HR = 0.900, CI 
(95%) = 0.842-0.962, i.e., reduced by 10 months) or 16-20 years at the onset of 
the Holocaust (HR = 0.820, CI (95%) = 0.782-0.859, i.e., reduced by18 months). 
We found that against all odds genocidal survivors were likely to live longer. 
We suggest two explanations: Differential mortality during the Holocaust and 
"Posttraumatic Growth" associated with protective factors in Holocaust survivors 
or in their environment after World War II.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069179
PMCID: PMC3722177
PMID: 23894427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


635. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 22;8(7):e69638. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069638. Print 
2013.

Impact of summer heat on urban population mortality in Europe during the 1990s: 
an evaluation of years of life lost adjusted for harvesting.

Baccini M(1), Kosatsky T, Biggeri A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, Informatics and Applications G. Parenti, University 
of Florence, Florence, Italy. baccini@disia.unifi.it

BACKGROUND: Efforts to prevent and respond to heat-related illness would benefit 
by quantifying the impact of summer heat on acute population mortality. We 
estimated years of life lost due to heat in 14 European cities during the 1990s 
accounting for harvesting.
METHODS: We combined the number of deaths attributable to heat estimated by the 
PHEWE project with life expectancy derived from population life tables. The 
degree of harvesting was quantified by comparing the cumulative effect of heat 
up to lagged day 30 with the immediate effect of heat, by geographical region 
and age. Next, an evaluation of years of life lost adjusted for harvesting was 
obtained.
RESULTS: Without accounting for harvesting, we estimated more than 23,000 years 
of life lost per year, 55% of which was among individuals younger than 75. When 
30 day mortality displacement was taken into account, the overall impact reduced 
on average by 75%. Harvesting was more pronounced in North-continental cities 
than in Mediterranean cities and was stronger among young people than among 
elderly.
CONCLUSIONS: High ambient temperatures during summer were responsible for many 
deaths in European cities during the 1990s, but a large percentage of these 
deaths likely involved frail persons whose demise was only briefly hastened by 
heat exposure. Differences in harvesting across regions and classes of age could 
reflect different proportions of frail individuals in the population or could be 
indicative of heterogeneous dynamics underlying the entry and exit of 
individuals from the high-risk pool which is subject to mortality displacement.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0069638
PMCID: PMC3718689
PMID: 23894516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


636. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2013 Aug;37(4):356-64. doi:
10.1111/1753-6405.12084.

Closing the Gaps: competing estimates of Indigenous Australian life expectancy 
in the scientific literature.

Rosenstock A(1), Mukandi B, Zwi AB, Hill PS.

Author information:
(1)Australian Centre for International and Tropical Health, School of Population 
Health, University of Queensland, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: Closing the gap in life expectancy between Indigenous and other 
Australians within a generation is central to national Indigenous reform policy 
(Closing the Gap). Over time, various methods of estimating Indigenous life 
expectancy and with that, the life expectancy gap, have been adopted with 
differing, albeit non-comparable results. We present data on the extent of the 
gap and elucidate the pattern of use and interpretations of the different 
estimates of the gap, between 2007 and 2012.
METHODS: An extensive search was conducted for all peer-reviewed health 
publications citing estimates of and/or discussing the life expectancy of 
Indigenous Australians, for the period 2007-2012.
RESULTS: Five predominant patterns of citation of the gap estimates were 
identified: 20 years, 17 years, 15-20 years, 13 years, and 11.5 years for males 
and 9.7 years for females. Some authors misinterpret the most recent estimates 
as reflecting improvement from the 17-year figure, rather than the result of 
different methods of estimation. Support for the direct methods used to 
calculate Indigenous life expectancy is indicated.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: A specific estimate of the life expectancy gap has 
not been established among stakeholders in Indigenous health. Agreement on the 
magnitude of the gap is arguably needed in order to evaluate strategies aimed at 
improving health outcomes for Indigenous Australians. Moreover, measuring 
progress towards 'closing the gap' depends on the availability of comparable 
estimates, using the same techniques of measurement to assess changes over time.

© 2013 The Authors. ANZJPH © 2013 Public Health Association of Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-6405.12084
PMCID: PMC3796865
PMID: 23895479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


637. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2013 Aug;37(4):365-70. doi:
10.1111/1753-6405.12085.

Decreasing rates of natural deaths in a remote Australian Aboriginal community, 
1996-2010.

Wang Z(1), Hoy WE.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Chronic Disease, School of Medicine, The University of Queensland, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the trends of all-cause natural mortality for people aged 
15 years and over in a remote Australian Aboriginal community between 1996 and 
2010.
METHODS: The annual population in the community by gender and age group was 
obtained from the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS). All known deaths and 
all records of start of renal replacement therapy (RRT) for renal failure were 
recorded between 1996 and 2010. Five-year aggregated death rates were calculated 
and the changes in natural mortality over the interval were evaluated. Mortality 
was compared with those of the Northern Territory (NT) Indigenous and 
non-Indigenous people as a whole from 1998 to 2006.
RESULTS: Rates of natural deaths were lower in the third interval 2006-2010 
relative to the first interval 1996-2000, with higher, but more rapidly falling 
rates for females than males. Reductions were prominent for both sexes in the 65 
and over age groups, but death rates in females of earlier middle age also 
trended lower. The trends applied whether or not the starting of RRT was 
considered as a natural death. There was a similar trend in rates of natural 
death in the aggregate Indigenous population of NT.
CONCLUSIONS: The downward trends probably reflect improvements in risk factor 
status since the 1960s, all-of-life health interventions, as well as better 
chronic disease management in the last two decades. The higher death rates in 
females than males in this community remain unexplained, but the rapid rate of 
decline of female death rates predicts that this gap will soon be minimised.

© 2013 The Authors. ANZJPH © 2013 Public Health Association of Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-6405.12085
PMID: 23895480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


638. Amyotroph Lateral Scler Frontotemporal Degener. 2013 Dec;14(7-8):604-7. doi:
 10.3109/21678421.2013.809122. Epub 2013 Jul 30.

Age at onset of amyotrophic lateral sclerosis is proportional to life 
expectancy.

Byrne S(1), Jordan I, Elamin M, Hardiman O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Trinity College , Dublin , Ireland.

DOI: 10.3109/21678421.2013.809122
PMID: 23895536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Aging Cell. 2013 Dec;12(6):1144-7. doi: 10.1111/acel.12142. Epub 2013 Sep
11.

Lifespan extension by dietary intervention in a mouse model of Cockayne syndrome 
uncouples early postnatal development from segmental progeria.

Brace LE(1), Vose SC, Vargas DF, Zhao S, Wang XP, Mitchell JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Complex Diseases, Harvard School of Public Health, 
655 Huntington Ave, Boston, MA, 02115, USA.

Cockayne syndrome (CS) is a rare autosomal recessive segmental progeria 
characterized by growth failure, lipodystrophy, neurological abnormalities, and 
photosensitivity, but without skin cancer predisposition. Cockayne syndrome life 
expectancy ranges from 5 to 16 years for the two most severe forms (types II and 
I, respectively). Mouse models of CS have thus far been of limited value due to 
either very mild phenotypes, or premature death during postnatal development 
prior to weaning. The cause of death in severe CS models is unknown, but has 
been attributed to extremely rapid aging. Here, we found that providing mutant 
pups with soft food from as late as postnatal day 14 allowed survival past 
weaning with high penetrance independent of dietary macronutrient balance in a 
novel CS model (Csa(-/-) | Xpa(-/-)). Survival past weaning revealed a number of 
CS-like symptoms including small size, progressive loss of adiposity, and 
neurological symptoms, with a maximum lifespan of 19 weeks. Our results caution 
against interpretation of death before weaning as premature aging, and at the 
same time provide a valuable new tool for understanding mechanisms of 
progressive CS-related progeroid symptoms including lipodystrophy and 
neurodysfunction.

© 2013 the Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12142
PMCID: PMC4266594
PMID: 23895664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. Exp Parasitol. 2013 Oct;135(2):283-6. doi: 10.1016/j.exppara.2013.07.012.
Epub  2013 Jul 26.

Alternative development in Polystoma gallieni (Platyhelminthes, Monogenea) and 
life cycle evolution.

Badets M(1), Du Preez L, Verneau O.

Author information:
(1)Unit for Environmental Sciences and Management, North-West University, 
Potchefstroom 2520, South Africa; Univ. Perpignan Via Domitia, Centre de 
Formation et de Recherche sur les Environnements Méditerranéens, UMR 5110, 
F-66860 Perpignan, France. Electronic address: mbadets@gmail.com.

Considering the addition of intermediate transmission steps during life cycle 
evolution, developmental plasticity, canalization forces and inherited parental 
effect must be invoked to explain new host colonization. Unfortunately, there is 
a lack of experimental procedures and relevant models to explore the adaptive 
value of alternative developmental phenotypes during life cycle evolution. 
However, within the monogeneans that are characterized by a direct life cycle, 
an extension of the transmission strategy of amphibian parasites has been 
reported within species of Polystoma and Metapolystoma (Polyopisthocotylea; 
Polystomatidae). In this study, we tested whether the infection success of 
Polystoma gallieni within tadpoles of its specific host, the Stripeless Tree 
Frog Hyla meridionalis, differs depending on the parental origin of the 
oncomiracidium. An increase in the infection success of the parasitic larvae 
when exposed to the same experimental conditions as their parents was expected 
as an adaptive pattern of non-genetic inherited information. Twice as many 
parasites were actually recorded from tadpoles infected with oncomiracidia 
hatching from eggs of the bladder parental phenotype (1.63 ± 0.82 parasites per 
host) than from tadpoles infected with oncomiracidia hatching from eggs of the 
branchial parental phenotype (0.83 ± 0.64 parasites per host). Because in 
natural environments the alternation of the two phenotypes is likely to occur 
due to the ecology of its host, the differential infection success within young 
tadpoles could have an adaptive value that favors the parasite transmission over 
time.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exppara.2013.07.012
PMID: 23896124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


641. BMJ. 2013 Jul 29;347:f4795. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f4795.

Unexpected rise in deaths among older patients leaves experts guessing over the 
likely cause.

Torjesen I.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f4795
PMID: 23896662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. Int Urol Nephrol. 2013 Dec;45(6):1539-44. doi: 10.1007/s11255-013-0506-z.
Epub  2013 Jul 30.

Prostatic biopsies in selected men aged 75 years and older guide key clinical 
management decisions.

Paterson AL(1), Sut MK, Khan AR, Sharma HK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Bedford Hospital, Bedford, UK.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2014 Jun;191(6):1785.

PURPOSE: Increasing life expectancy and PSA testing has increased the number of 
men over the age of seventy-five presenting for investigation of potential 
prostate malignancies. Prostatic biopsies provide diagnostic information; 
however, they are invasive and may not alter management decisions. Therefore, 
this study aimed to investigate whether prostate biopsies in this age group were 
justified.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All men aged 75 years and older who underwent prostatic 
biopsies between January 2010 and November 2011 at Bedford Hospital were 
identified and the indication for the biopsies, histopathological results and 
subsequent management plan investigated.
RESULTS: One hundred and thirty-eight (138) prostatic biopsies were undertaken 
and malignancies identified in 60/138 (43 %) cases. Prebiopsy PSA and 
examination findings had a poor positive predictive value of 54 %. Fifty-five 
out of sixty (92 %) cancers were classified as high or medium risk disease with 
30/60 (50 %) patients commencing radiotherapy treatment with curative intent.
CONCLUSION: In selected patients aged 75 years or over, prostatic biopsies 
provide important diagnostic information which directly impacts on clinical 
decisions, supporting their use in this age group.

DOI: 10.1007/s11255-013-0506-z
PMID: 23896941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Nefrologia. 2013;33(4):506-14. doi: 10.3265/Nefrologia.pre2013.Apr.11768.

Survival rates in an unconventional haemodialysis strategy after a 10 year 
follow-up period.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Lozano-Díaz A(1), Benavides-Almela B, Quirós-Ganga P, Remón-Rodríguez C.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Nefrología, Hospital Universitario de Puerto Real, Cádiz, Spain. 
dr.lozanodiaz@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: At the end of the last century, level II scientific evidence 
supported higher survival rates for alternative haemodialysis (HD) techniques 
when compared with conventional HD, whose five-year life expectancy in Europe 
was below 40%. Our incident patients participated in an unconventional HD 
strategy from the year 2000, with the aim of assessing its influence on 
survival.
METHOD: A cohort study on 183 incident HD patients between 2000 and 2010. At the 
beginning of HD, we evaluated a history of cardiovascular disease (CVD) and 
Charlson index (ChI). In the year 2000, we began the unconventional HD strategy 
that included protocols of biocompatible high flux HD, dry weight target, a 
schedule of three weekly five hour sessions (HD 5h x 3) and from 2003, in 
combination with the foregoing, we began a schedule of four hour HD sessions on 
alternate days including weekends (every other day dialysis: EODD) for higher 
risk incident patients.
RESULTS: Of the 183 incident patients in the HD programme, 84 were dialysed in 
the 5hx3 HD schedule and 99 in EODD. The mean age was 60.6 ± 13.8 years, 31.7% 
were older than 70, 43% were diabetic, with CVD sufferers at 58.5% and the mean 
ChI was 4.55. Survival (%) from the first to the fifth year was 92, 82, 75, 62 
and 55, with a median of 5.65 years (confidence interval [CI] 4.18-7.11) and a 
mean of 5.4 (CI 4.75-6.1).
CONCLUSIONS: The unconventional HD strategy that we applied to incident patients 
in the technique resulted in good survival.

DOI: 10.3265/Nefrologia.pre2013.Apr.11768
PMID: 23897182 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Nat Rev Nephrol. 2013 Sep;9(9):529-38. doi: 10.1038/nrneph.2013.144. Epub
2013  Jul 30.

Renal cancer in von Hippel-Lindau disease and related syndromes.

Bausch B(1), Jilg C, Gläsker S, Vortmeyer A, Lützen N, Anton A, Eng C, Neumann 
HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, Endocrinology and Infectious 
Diseases, University Hospital, Hugstetter Strasse 55, D-79106 Freiburg, Germany.

Sporadic and hereditary forms of renal cell carcinoma (RCC), von Hippel-Lindau 
(VHL) disease and the familial paraganglioma syndromes are closely related in 
terms of their clinical, molecular, and genetic aspects. Most RCCs occur 
sporadically and the heritable fraction of RCC is estimated to be just 2-4%. An 
understanding of the molecular genetic basis, the disease-specific and 
gene-specific biology and the clinical characteristics of these cancer syndromes 
is of utmost importance for effective genetic diagnosis and appropriate 
treatment. In addition, such insight will improve our understanding of sporadic 
RCCs. To date, 10 different heritable RCC syndromes have been described. VHL 
syndrome is the oldest known hereditary RCC syndrome. Similar to VHL disease, 
phaeochromocytoma is a major manifestation of the paraganglioma syndromes types 
1, 3 and 4 in which RCCs have been reported. These syndromes are therefore 
regarded as VHL-related disorders and are included in this Review. Multifocal 
tumours, bilateral occurrence, a young age at diagnosis and/or family history 
are clinical red flags suggestive of hereditary disease and should trigger 
referral for genetic and molecular analysis. The identification of an underlying 
genetic alteration enables gene-specific risk assessment and opens up the 
possibility of a tailored follow-up strategy and specific surveillance protocols 
as the basis of effective preventive medicine. The important goals of preventive 
medicine are to increase the life expectancy of affected patients and to improve 
their quality of life. The study of seemingly rare hereditary syndromes and 
their susceptibility genes has consistently revealed clues regarding the 
aetiology and pathogenesis of these diseases, and can aid diagnosis and the 
development of therapeutics for patients affected by much more common sporadic 
counterparts.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneph.2013.144
PMID: 23897319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. Cereb Cortex. 2014 Dec;24(12):3277-88. doi: 10.1093/cercor/bht192. Epub 2013
Jul  29.

GABAergic terminals are a source of galanin to modulate cholinergic neuron 
development in the neonatal forebrain.

Keimpema E(1), Zheng K(2), Barde SS(2), Berghuis P(3), Dobszay MB(3), Schnell 
R(3), Mulder J(4), Luiten PG(5), Xu ZD(6), Runesson J(7), Langel Ü(7), Lu B(8), 
Hökfelt T(2), Harkany T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Department of Medical Biochemistry and 
Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm SE-17177, Sweden.
(2)Department of Neuroscience.
(3)Department of Medical Biochemistry and Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm SE-17177, Sweden.
(4)Department of Neuroscience, Science for Life Laboratory, Royal Institute of 
Technology, Stockholm SE-17121, Sweden.
(5)Department of Molecular Neurobiology, University of Groningen, Groningen 
NL-9747 AG, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Neuroscience, Beijing Institute for Neuroscience, Beijing 
Center for Neural Regeneration and Repairing, Department of Neurobiology, 
Capital Medical University, Beijing 100069, China.
(7)Department of Neurochemistry, Stockholm University, Stockholm SE-10691, 
Sweden and.
(8)R&D China, GlaxoSmithKline, Pudong, Shanghai 201203, China.

The distribution and (patho-)physiological role of neuropeptides in the adult 
and aging brain have been extensively studied. Galanin is an inhibitory 
neuropeptide that can coexist with γ-aminobutyric acid (GABA) in the adult 
forebrain. However, galanin's expression sites, mode of signaling, impact on 
neuronal morphology, and colocalization with amino acid neurotransmitters during 
brain development are less well understood. Here, we show that galaninergic 
innervation of cholinergic projection neurons, which preferentially express 
galanin receptor 2 (GalR2) in the neonatal mouse basal forebrain, develops by 
birth. Nerve growth factor (NGF), known to modulate cholinergic morphogenesis, 
increases GalR2 expression. GalR2 antagonism (M871) in neonates reduces the in 
vivo expression and axonal targeting of the vesicular acetylcholine transporter 
(VAChT), indispensable for cholinergic neurotransmission. During cholinergic 
neuritogenesis in vitro, GalR2 can recruit Rho-family GTPases to induce the 
extension of a VAChT-containing primary neurite, the prospective axon. In doing 
so, GalR2 signaling dose-dependently modulates directional filopodial growth and 
antagonizes NGF-induced growth cone differentiation. Galanin accumulates in 
GABA-containing nerve terminals in the neonatal basal forebrain, suggesting its 
contribution to activity-driven cholinergic development during the perinatal 
period. Overall, our data define the cellular specificity and molecular 
complexity of galanin action in the developing basal forebrain.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/cercor/bht192
PMCID: PMC4224245
PMID: 23897649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Med Econ. 2013 Jan 10;90(1):46-7.

State laws on loss of chance of survival continue to evolve.

Johnson LJ.

PMID: 23898591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Aging Cell. 2014 Feb;13(1):19-28. doi: 10.1111/acel.12145. Epub 2013 Sep 11.

Longevity effect of IGF-1R(+/-) mutation depends on genetic background-specific 
receptor activation.

Xu J(1), Gontier G, Chaker Z, Lacube P, Dupont J, Holzenberger M.

Author information:
(1)INSERM, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, Paris, 75012, France; Université Pierre et 
Marie Curie, UPMC, Paris, 75005, France.

Growth hormone (GH) and insulin-like growth factor (IGF) signaling regulates 
lifespan in mice. The modulating effects of genetic background gained much 
attention because it was shown that life-prolonging effects in Snell dwarf and 
GH receptor knockout vary between mouse strains. We previously reported that 
heterozygous IGF-1R inactivation (IGF-1R(+/-) ) extends lifespan in female mice 
on 129/SvPas background, but it remained unclear whether this mutation produces 
a similar effect in other genetic backgrounds and which molecules possibly 
modify this effect. Here, we measured the life-prolonging effect of IGF-1R(+/-) 
mutation in C57BL/6J background and investigated the role of insulin/IGF 
signaling molecules in strain-dependent differences. We found significant 
lifespan extension in female IGF-1R(+/-) mutants on C57BL/6J background, but the 
effect was smaller than in 129/SvPas, suggesting strain-specific penetrance of 
longevity phenotypes. Comparing GH/IGF pathways between wild-type 129/SvPas and 
C57BL/6J mice, we found that circulating IGF-I and activation of IGF-1R, IRS-1, 
and IRS-2 were markedly elevated in 129/SvPas, while activation of IGF pathways 
was constitutively low in spontaneously long-lived C57BL/6J mice. Importantly, 
we demonstrated that loss of one IGF-1R allele diminished the level of activated 
IGF-1R and IRS more profoundly and triggered stronger endocrine feedback in 
129/SvPas background than in C57BL/6J. We also revealed that acute oxidative 
stress entails robust IGF-1R pathway activation, which could account for the 
fact that IGF-1R(+/-) stress resistance phenotypes are fully penetrant in both 
backgrounds. Together, these results provide a possible explanation why 
IGF-1R(+/-) was less efficient in extending lifespan in C57BL/6J compared with 
129/SvPas.

© 2013 the Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12145
PMCID: PMC4326867
PMID: 23898955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Behav Cogn Psychother. 2014 Nov;42(6):731-46. doi:
10.1017/S135246581300060X.  Epub 2013 Jul 30.

Manage Your Life Online (MYLO): a pilot trial of a conversational computer-based 
intervention for problem solving in a student sample.

Gaffney H(1), Mansell W(1), Edwards R(1), Wright J(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Manchester,UK.

BACKGROUND: Computerized self-help that has an interactive, conversational 
format holds several advantages, such as flexibility across presenting problems 
and ease of use. We designed a new program called MYLO that utilizes the 
principles of METHOD of Levels (MOL) therapy--based upon Perceptual Control 
Theory (PCT).
AIMS: We tested the efficacy of MYLO, tested whether the psychological change 
mechanisms described by PCT mediated its efficacy, and evaluated effects of 
client expectancy.
METHOD: Forty-eight student participants were randomly assigned to MYLO or a 
comparison program ELIZA. Participants discussed a problem they were currently 
experiencing with their assigned program and completed measures of distress, 
resolution and expectancy preintervention, postintervention and at 2-week 
follow-up.
RESULTS: MYLO and ELIZA were associated with reductions in distress, depression, 
anxiety and stress. MYLO was considered more helpful and led to greater problem 
resolution. The psychological change processes predicted higher ratings of 
MYLO's helpfulness and reductions in distress. Positive expectancies towards 
computer-based problem solving correlated with MYLO's perceived helpfulness and 
greater problem resolution, and this was partly mediated by the psychological 
change processes identified.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings provide provisional support for the acceptability of 
the MYLO program in a non-clinical sample although its efficacy as an innovative 
computer-based aid to problem solving remains unclear. Nevertheless, the 
findings provide tentative early support for the mechanisms of psychological 
change identified within PCT and highlight the importance of client expectations 
on predicting engagement in computer-based self-help.

DOI: 10.1017/S135246581300060X
PMID: 23899405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Jul;14 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S1-3. doi: 
10.1007/s10198-013-0502-3.

The development of new research methods for the valuation of EQ-5D-5L.

Devlin NJ, Krabbe PF.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0502-3
PMCID: PMC3728454
PMID: 23900659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Jul;14 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S5-13. doi: 
10.1007/s10198-013-0503-2.

Introducing the composite time trade-off: a test of feasibility and face 
validity.

Janssen BM(1), Oppe M, Versteegh MM, Stolk EA.

Author information:
(1)Section Medical Psychology and Psychotherapy, Department of Psychiatry, 
Erasmus MC, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. 
m.f.janssen@erasmusmc.nl

INTRODUCTION: This study was designed to test the feasibility and face validity 
of the composite time trade-off (composite TTO), a new approach to TTO allowing 
for a more consistent elicitation of negative health state values.
METHODS: The new instrument combines a conventional TTO to elicit values for 
states regarded better than dead and a lead-time TTO for states worse than dead.
RESULTS: A total of 121 participants completed the composite TTO for ten 
EQ-5D-5L health states. Mean values ranged from -0.104 for health state 53555 to 
0.946 for 21111. The instructions were clear to 98 % of the respondents, and 95 
% found the task easy to understand, indicating feasibility. Further, the 
average number of steps taken in the iteration procedure to achieve the point of 
indifference in the TTO and the average duration of each task were indicative of 
a deliberate cognitive process.
CONCLUSION: Face validity was confirmed by the high mean values for the mild 
health states (>0.90) and low mean values for the severe states (<0.42). In 
conclusion, this study demonstrates the feasibility and face validity of the 
composite TTO in a face-to-face standardized computer-assisted interview 
setting.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0503-2
PMCID: PMC3728457
PMID: 23900660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Jul;14 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S33-42. doi: 
10.1007/s10198-013-0511-2.

Dealing with the health state 'dead' when using discrete choice experiments to 
obtain values for EQ-5D-5L heath states.

Ramos-Goñi JM(1), Rivero-Arias O, Errea M, Stolk EA, Herdman M, Cabasés JM.

Author information:
(1)HTA Unit of Canary Islands Health Service, Servicio Canario de la Salud, 
C/Calvario, 271-B, 1 IQZ, 38350, Tacoronte, Santa Cruz de Tenerife, Canary 
Islands, Spain. juanmanuel.ramosgoni@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate two different methods to obtain a dead (0)--full health 
(1) scale for EQ-5D-5L valuation studies when using discrete choice (DC) 
modeling.
METHOD: The study was carried out among 400 respondents from Barcelona who were 
representative of the Spanish population in terms of age, sex, and level of 
education. The DC design included 50 pairs of health states in five blocks. 
Participants were forced to choose between two EQ-5D-5L states (A and B). Two 
extra questions concerned whether A and B were considered worse than dead. Each 
participant performed ten choice exercises. In addition, values were collected 
using lead-time trade-off (lead-time TTO), for which 100 states in ten blocks 
were selected. Each participant performed five lead-time TTO exercises. These 
consisted of DC models offering the health state 'dead' as one of the 
choices--for which all participants' responses were used (DCdead)--and a model 
that included only the responses of participants who chose at least one state as 
worse than dead (WTD) (DCWTD). The study also estimated DC models rescaled with 
lead-time TTO data and a lead-time TTO linear model.
RESULTS: The DC(dead) and DCWTD models produced relatively similar results, 
although the coefficients in the DCdead model were slightly lower. The DC model 
rescaled with lead-time TTO data produced higher utility decrements. Lead-time 
TTO produced the highest utility decrements.
CONCLUSIONS: The incorporation of the state 'dead' in the DC models produces 
results in concordance with DC models that do not include 'dead'.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0511-2
PMCID: PMC3728441
PMID: 23900663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


652. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Jul;14 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S43-51. doi: 
10.1007/s10198-013-0507-y.

Time to tweak the TTO: results from a comparison of alternative specifications 
of the TTO.

Versteegh MM(1), Attema AE, Oppe M, Devlin NJ, Stolk EA.

Author information:
(1)iMTA/iBMG, Institute of Health Policy and Management/Institute for Medical 
Technology Assessment, Erasmus University of Rotterdam, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. versteegh@bmg.eur.nl

This article examines the effect that different specifications of the time 
trade-off (TTO) valuation task may have on values for EQ-5D-5L health states. 
The new variants of the TTO, namely lead-time TTO and lag-time TTO, along with 
the classic approach to TTO were compared using two durations for the health 
states (15 and 20 years). The study tested whether these methods yield 
comparable health-state values. TTO tasks were administered online. It was found 
that lag-time TTO produced lower values than lead-time TTO and that the 
difference was larger in the longer time frame. Classic TTO values most 
resembled those of the lag-time TTO in a 20-year time frame in terms of mean 
absolute difference. The relative importance of different domains of health was 
