substantially over the last two decades and cystic fibrosis can no longer be 
regarded as a paediatric condition. Adults with cystic fibrosis are becoming a 
new ageing population and are working, having families of their own and are 
likely to retire due to old age rather than ill health. Despite this progress, 
little is known about how people with cystic fibrosis are experiencing ageing 
with this long-term condition and how prepared they are for older age. This 
paper highlights the implications that ageing with cystic fibrosis may have for 
specialist health services and in particular the individual with cystic 
fibrosis, as well as providing pointers for future research.

DOI: 10.1177/1742395313479982
PMID: 23702786 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. J Alzheimers Dis. 2013;36(4):791-8. doi: 10.3233/JAD-130662.

Memantine is associated with longer survival than donepezil in a Veterans 
Affairs prescription database, 1997 to 2008.

Lazzeroni LC(1), Halbauer JD, Ashford JW, Noda A, Hernandez B, Azor V, Hozack N, 
Hasson N, Henderson VW, Yesavage JA, Tinklenberg JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Stanford University School 
of Medicine, Stanford, CA, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) shortens life-expectancy, but the effects of 
pharmacological treatments for this disorder on mortality have not been studied. 
We compared two commonly prescribed medications, donepezil and memantine, with 
respect to the length of survival of veterans presumed to have AD. The 
Computerized Medical Records System at the Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Health 
Care System (VAPAHCS) was used to identify all patients prescribed these 
medications between 1997 and 2008. The VAPAHCS approved donepezil in 1997 and 
memantine in 2004. Kaplan-Meier and Cox regression analyses were used to test 
for chronological and drug-related associations with survival in 2,083 male 
veterans aged 55 years and older receiving prescriptions for donepezil, 
memantine, or both. Overall patient mortality decreased in the 2004 to 2008 era, 
compared with the 1997 to 2003 era, pre-memantine (HR: 0.75; 95% CI: 0.63, 0.89; 
p = 0.001). In analyses confined to the 2004 to 2008 era, patients prescribed 
memantine alone survived significantly longer than those prescribed donepezil 
alone (HR: 2.24; 95% CI: 1.53, 3.28; p < 0.001) or both donepezil and memantine 
(HR: 1.83; 95% CI: 1.14, 2.94; p = 0.012). While this study has several 
limitations, these findings suggest that memantine treatment is associated with 
an increased life-expectancy relative to donepezil treatment. Additional 
research is needed to replicate these unexpected findings and identify potential 
mechanisms to explain this apparent association, to establish if the 
relationship applies to other cholinesterase inhibitors, and to discover whether 
the findings generalize to women and patient populations with characteristics 
different from those of the veterans in this study.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-130662
PMID: 23703151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


118. Palliat Med. 2014 Feb;28(2):101-10. doi: 10.1177/0269216313488989. Epub 2013
May  23.

Priorities for treatment, care and information if faced with serious illness: a 
comparative population-based survey in seven European countries.

Higginson IJ(1), Gomes B, Calanzani N, Gao W, Bausewein C, Daveson BA, Deliens 
L, Ferreira PL, Toscani F, Gysels M, Ceulemans L, Simon ST, Cohen J, Harding R; 
Project PRISMA.

Author information:
(1)1King's College London, Cicely Saunders Institute, Department of Palliative 
Care, Policy and Rehabilitation, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Health-care costs are growing, with little population-based data 
about people's priorities for end-of-life care, to guide service development and 
aid discussions.
AIM: We examined variations in people's priorities for treatment, care and 
information across seven European countries.
DESIGN: Telephone survey of a random sample of households; we asked respondents 
their priorities if 'faced with a serious illness, like cancer, with limited 
time to live' and used multivariable logistic regressions to identify associated 
factors.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Members of the general public aged ≥ 16 years residing in 
England, Flanders, Germany, Italy, the Netherlands, Portugal and Spain.
RESULTS: In total, 9344 individuals were interviewed. Most people chose 'improve 
quality of life for the time they had left', ranging from 57% (95% confidence 
interval: 55%-60%, Italy) to 81% (95% confidence interval: 79%-83%, Spain). Only 
2% (95% confidence interval: 1%-3%, England) to 6% (95% confidence interval: 
4%-7%, Flanders) said extending life was most important, and 15% (95% confidence 
interval: 13%-17%, Spain) to 40% (95% confidence interval: 37%-43%, Italy) said 
quality and extension were equally important. Prioritising quality of life was 
associated with higher education in all countries (odds ratio = 1.3 (Flanders) 
to 7.9 (Italy)), experience of caregiving or bereavement (England, Germany, 
Portugal), prioritising pain/symptom control over having a positive attitude and 
preferring death in a hospice/palliative care unit. Those prioritising extending 
life had the highest home death preference of all groups. Health status did not 
affect priorities.
CONCLUSIONS: Across all countries, extending life was prioritised by a minority, 
regardless of health status. Treatment and care needs to be reoriented with 
patient education and palliative care becoming mainstream for serious conditions 
such as cancer.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216313488989
PMID: 23703237 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


119. Turk Kardiyol Dern Ars. 2013 Apr;41(3):248-55. doi: 10.5543/tkda.2013.76429.

Doppler ultrasonography in lower extremity peripheral arterial disease.

Verim S(1), Taşçı I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Mevki Hospital, Ankara, Turkey. 
drsametverim@yahoo.com

Systemic atherosclerosis is a condition which progresses with age, decreases 
quality of life, and life expectancy. Lower extremity peripheral arterial 
disease (PAD) is a common manifestation of systemic atherosclerosis in the 
elderly. These individuals have a 2 to 4 fold higher risk of coronary heart 
disease and stroke. In addition, systemic atherosclerosis causes overall 
functional disability including restricted lower extremity movements. When used 
alone for diagnostic purposes, claudication is an unreliable sign of PAD in all 
age groups especially the elderly. Moreover, claudication is difficult to define 
due to the advancing age and degenerative changes in lumbar and peripheral 
joints. Doppler ultrasonography (US) is an easily available and noninvasive 
means of arterial visualization in the lower extremities. In this review, 
supporting evidence for the use of Doppler US in the diagnosis of PAD will be 
discussed. Past and present recommendations regarding Doppler US in the current 
PAD guidelines will be overviewed.

DOI: 10.5543/tkda.2013.76429
PMID: 23703564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2013 Oct;29(7):568-75. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.2429.

Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes compared with type 1 and type 2 diabetes in 
adults.

Konrad K(1), Scheuing N, Badenhoop K, Borkenstein MH, Gohlke B, Schöfl C, 
Seufert J, Thon A, Holl RW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics II, Pediatric Endocrinology and Diabetes, University 
Children's Hospital Essen, Essen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: With increasing life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis 
(CF), secondary diabetes becomes more prevalent. It appears to be the most 
common co-morbidity in persons with cystic fibrosis. Therefore, the objective of 
our study was to describe characteristics of cystic fibrosis-related diabetes 
compared with type 1 and 2 diabetes (T1DM/T2DM) in adults.
METHODS: Data from 218 436 patients >18 years with cystic fibrosis (n = 401), 
T1DM (n = 32,409) or T2DM (n = 185 626) in the multicenter 
Diabetes-Patienten-Verlaufsdokumentation or prospective documentation of 
diabetes patients registry were analysed.
RESULTS: Diabetes onset [median (interquartile range)] in cystic fibrosis [18.70 
(15.50-25.30) years] was between T1DM [16.40 (10.50-31.80) years] and T2DM 
[58.50 (48.80-68.00) years], with female preponderance. Body mass index (BMI) 
and glycosylated haemoglobin (HbA1c ) were lowest (19.6 [18.1-21.5] kg/m(2) )/50 
mmol/mol (6.73%) versus T1DM (24.4 [22.1-27.4])/62 mmol/mol (7.83%) vs. T2DM 
(29.6 [26.1-33.9])/54 mmol/mol (7.06%); all p < 0.01. A total of 78.6% of cystic 
fibrosis patients with diabetes received insulin. Insulin dose (0.74 IE/kg 
bodyweight) was not significantly different from T1DM (0.73) and T2DM (0.76). 
Frequency of vascular complications, adjusted for confounding effects, across 
the groups was different: Hypertension (CFRD 16.1% vs. T1DM 24.0% vs. T2DM 
32.2%; all p < 0.01), retinopathy (CFRD 10.7% vs. T1DM 10.4% vs. T2DM 10.5%, not 
significant), nephropathy (CFRD 25.2% vs. T1DM 17.2% vs. T2DM 24.7%; only 
T1DM/T2DM; p < 0.01).
CONCLUSION: CFRD is a uniquely complex entity with clear differences from T1DM 
and T2DM in adults.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.2429
PMID: 23704008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2013 Jul;8(7):1252-7. doi: 10.2215/CJN.00790113. Epub
 2013 May 23.

The coming fiscal crisis: nephrology in the line of fire.

Andersen MJ(1), Friedman AN.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Indiana University School of Medicine, Indianapolis, 
Indiana, USA. martande@iupui.edu

Nephrologists in the United States face a very uncertain economic future. The 
astronomical federal debt and unfunded liability burden of Medicare combined 
with the aging population will place unprecedented strain on the health care 
sector. To address these fundamental problems, it is conceivable that the 
federal government will ultimately institute rationing and other budget-cutting 
measures to rein in costs of ESRD care, which is generously funded relative to 
other chronic illnesses. Therefore, nephrologists should expect implementation 
of cost-cutting measures, such age-based rationing, mandated delayed dialysis 
and home therapies, compensated organ donation, and a shift in research 
priorities from the dialysis to the predialysis patient population. 
Nephrologists also need to recognize that these changes, which are geared toward 
the population level, may make it more difficult to advocate effectively for the 
needs of individual patients.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.00790113
PMID: 23704301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Integr Comp Biol. 2013 Aug;53(2):295-306. doi: 10.1093/icb/ict052. Epub 2013
May  23.

Thrash, flip, or jump: the behavioral and functional continuum of terrestrial 
locomotion in teleost fishes.

Gibb AC(1), Ashley-Ross MA, Hsieh ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Northern Arizona University, Flagstaff, AZ, USA. 
Alice.Gibb@nau.edu

Moving on land versus in water imposes dramatically different requirements on 
the musculoskeletal system. Although many limbed vertebrates, such as 
salamanders and prehistoric tetrapodomorphs, have an axial system specialized 
for aquatic locomotion and an appendicular system adapted for terrestrial 
locomotion, diverse extant teleosts use the axial musculoskeletal system (body 
plus caudal fin) to move in these two physically disparate environments. In 
fact, teleost fishes living at the water's edge demonstrate diversity in natural 
history that is reflected in a variety of terrestrial behaviors: (1) species 
that have only incidental contact with land (such as largemouth bass, 
Micropterus) will repeatedly thrash, which can roll an individual downhill, but 
cannot produce effective overland movements, (2) species that have occasional 
contact with land (like Gambusia, the mosquitofish, which evade predators by 
stranding themselves) will produce directed terrestrial movement via a tail-flip 
jump, and (3) species that spend more than half of their lives on land (like the 
mudskipper, Periopthalmus) will produce a prone-jump, a behavior that allows the 
fish to anticipate where it will land at the end of the flight phase. Both 
tail-flip and prone jumps are characterized by a two-phase movement consisting 
of body flexion followed by extension-a movement pattern that is markedly 
similar to the aquatic fast-start. Convergence in kinematic pattern between 
effective terrestrial behaviors and aquatic fast starts suggests that jumps are 
an exaptation of a neuromuscular system that powers unsteady escape behaviors in 
the water. Despite such evidence that terrestrial behaviors evolved from an 
ancestral behavior that is ubiquitous among teleosts, some teleosts are unable 
to move effectively on land-possibly due to morphological trade-offs, wherein 
specialization for one environment comes at a cost to performance in the other. 
Indeed, upon emergence onto land, gravity places an increased mechanical load on 
the body, which may limit the maximum size of fish that can produce terrestrial 
locomotion via jumping. In addition, effective terrestrial locomotor performance 
may require a restructuring of the musculoskeletal system that directly 
conflicts with the low-drag, fusiform body shape that enhances steady swimming 
performance. Such biomechanical trade-offs may constrain which teleost species 
are able to make the evolutionary transition to life on land. Here, we 
synthesize the current knowledge of intermittent terrestrial locomotion in 
teleosts and demonstrate that extant fishes represent an important model system 
for elucidating fundamental evolutionary mechanisms and defining the 
physiological constraints that must be overcome to permit life in both the 
aquatic and terrestrial realms.

DOI: 10.1093/icb/ict052
PMID: 23704366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Perspect Infirm. 2013 May-Jun;10(3):11.

[Living long - and in good health].

[Article in French]

Boëls N.

PMID: 23705272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2013 Feb;24(2):549-55.

[Sublethal effect of chlorantraniliprole on the experimental population of 
non-target insect Nilaparvata lugens (Stål)].

[Article in Chinese]

Yang H(1), Wang Z, Jing DC.

Author information:
(1)agr.hyang@yahoo.com.cn

Chlorantraniliprole is a newly developed insecticide targeting at lepidopteron 
pests in rice fields, whereas Nilaparvata lugens (Stål) is one of the important 
non-target pests of the insecticide. In this paper, the rice stem dipping method 
was adopted to test the toxicity of chlorantraniliprole to the 3rd instar nymphs 
and adults of N. lugens. The LC50 of chlorantraniliprole to the 3rd instar 
nymphs and adults was 26.85 and 35.53 mg.L-1, respectively. When the 3rd instar 
nymph was exposed to the LC10 and LC25 of chlorantraniliprole, the life span of 
the survived female adults was not significantly affected. However, when treated 
with LC25 dosage, the fecundity of the survived female adults was significantly 
reduced by 45.6 eggs. After the 3rd instar nymph was treated with the sublethal 
doses LC10 and LC25 of chlorantraniliprole, the fecundity of the F1, females 
were decreased significantly by 43.5 and 72.9 eggs, and the life span of the F1 
females was shortened by 1.35 and 2.87 d, respectively. The developmental 
periods of all the instars of F, generation were delayed after treated with the 
sublethal doses LC10 and LC25 of chlorantraniliprole. The intrinsic rate of 
increase (rm) was decreased by 12.8% and 23.5%, and the net reproductive rate 
(R0) was decreased by 37.4% and 68.7%, respectively. Meanwhile, the mean 
generation time (T) and population doubling time (t) were delayed. Overall, the 
sublethal doses of chlorantraniliprole could suppress the population growth of 
N. lugens.

PMID: 23705404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Adolesc Med State Art Rev. 2013 Apr;24(1):295-306, xv.

The adolescent with sickle cell disease.

Majumdar S(1).

Author information:
(1)Transitional Sickle Cell Clinic, University of Mississippi Medical Center, 
Jackson, MS, USA. smajumdar@umc.edu

Most children and adolescents with sickle cell disease are managed by primary 
care physicians. Sickle cell disease is often considered to be a disorder that 
is only associated with treatment of acute pain, although it has become evident 
over the years that the condition is associated with numerous organ 
complications, many of which begin during adolescence. The purpose of this 
article is to highlight the various organ complications that may occur in sickle 
cell disease, with a particular emphasis on adolescence, and how best to detect 
and screen for such complications. Furthermore, as life expectancy continues to 
improve, transition to adult health care for patients has become a critical 
issue. The psychological effect on the adolescent with this chronic illness, as 
well as a brief description of the transitional processes to adult-centered 
care, are discussed.

PMID: 23705531 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. BMC Public Health. 2013 May 24;13:502. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-502.

A home-based exercise intervention to increase physical activity among people 
living with HIV: study design of a randomized clinical trial.

Jaggers JR(1), Dudgeon W, Blair SN, Sui X, Burgess S, Wilcox S, Hand GA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Exercise Science, University of South Carolina, Columbia, SC, 
USA. jaggersj@mailbox.sc.edu

BACKGROUND: While combination antiretroviral therapy has extended the life 
expectancy of those infected with human immunodeficiency virus (HIV), there is a 
high prevalence of comorbidities that increase the risk of cardiovascular 
morbidity and mortality among people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA). The side 
effects associated with antiretroviral therapy (ART) lead to multiple metabolic 
disorders, making the management of these metabolic issues and risk of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) in those treated with ART a critical issue. 
Clinical research trials, primarily clinical exercise, rarely include this 
population due to unique challenges in research methods with underserved 
minority populations living with a life threatening illness like HIV/AIDS. This 
paper describes the rationale and design of a randomized clinical trial 
evaluating the feasibility of a home-based exercise program designed to increase 
physical activity (PA) and reduce the risk of CVD in PLWHA.
METHODS/DESIGN: PLWHA being treated with ART will be randomly assigned to one of 
two groups: a home-based PA intervention or standard care. All participants will 
receive an educational weight loss workbook and pedometer for self-monitoring of 
PA. Only those in the intervention group will receive additional elastic 
Thera-bands® for strength training and behavioral telephone based coaching.
DISCUSSION: This study will evaluate the feasibility of a home-based program 
designed to increase PA among PLWHA. Further, it will evaluate the effectiveness 
of such a program to decrease modifiable risk factors for CVD as a secondary 
outcome. This study was funded by the NIH/NINR R21 Grant 1R21NRO11281.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trial Identifier NCT01377064.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-502
PMCID: PMC3668143
PMID: 23706094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Am J Otolaryngol. 2013 Sep-Oct;34(5):563-8. doi:
10.1016/j.amjoto.2013.04.007.  Epub 2013 May 23.

Primary Ewing's sarcoma of the ethmoid sinus with intracranial and orbital 
extension: case report and literature review.

Li M(1), Hoschar AP, Budd GT, Chao ST, Scharpf J.

Author information:
(1)Head and Neck Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, Cleveland, OH 44195, 
USA.

The Ewing's sarcoma family of tumors is a group of cancers that commonly arises 
in young adults during their second decade of life. It frequently involves the 
trunk and long bones of the body with primary Ewing's sarcoma of the paranasal 
sinuses being exceedingly rare. We describe the case of a 39 year-old female 
with primary Ewing's Sarcoma originating from the ethmoid sinus with 
intracranial extension into the anterior cranial fossa and the orbit. The 
radiologic and histopathologic profiles are presented with a review of the 
literature. To our knowledge, this is the second reported case with the tumor 
involving the anterior cranial fossa, but the only case where immunochemical 
staining and molecular genetic analysis are available for definitive diagnosis.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjoto.2013.04.007
PMID: 23706594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Lancet Oncol. 2013 Jul;14(8):689-90. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70248-1.
Epub  2013 May 22.

NICE guidance on bevacizumab in combination with paclitaxel and carboplatin for 
the first-line treatment of advanced ovarian cancer.

Dyer M, Richardson J, Robertson J, Adam J.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70248-1
PMID: 23706983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Lancet Oncol. 2013 Jul;14(8):691-2. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70247-X. Epub
 2013 May 22.

NICE guidance on bevacizumab in combination with gemcitabine and carboplatin for 
treating the first recurrence of platinum-sensitive advanced ovarian cancer.

Pinilla-Dominguez P, Richardson J, Robertson J, Adam J.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(13)70247-X
PMID: 23706986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Vaccine. 2013 Jul 11;31(32):3300-7. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.04.055. Epub
 2013 May 21.

Cost-effectiveness of rotavirus immunization in Indonesia: taking breastfeeding 
patterns into account.

Suwantika AA(1), Tu HA, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology & PharmacoEconomics (PE2), Department of 
Pharmacy, University of Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands. 
auliyasuwantika@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: This study aims to assess the cost-effectiveness of rotavirus 
immunization in Indonesia, taking breastfeeding patterns explicitly into 
account.
METHOD: An age-structured cohort model was developed for the 2011 Indonesia 
birth cohort. Next, we compared two strategies, the current situation without 
rotavirus immunization versus the alternative of a national immunization 
program. The model applies a 5 year time horizon, with 1 monthly analytical 
cycles for children less than 1 year of age and annually thereafter. Three 
scenarios were compared to the base case reflecting the actual distribution over 
the different breastfeeding modes as present in Indonesia; i.e., the population 
under 2 years old with (i) 100% exclusive breastfeeding, (ii) 100% partial 
breastfeeding and (iii) 100% no breastfeeding. Monte Carlo simulations were used 
to examine the economic acceptability and affordability of the rotavirus 
vaccination.
RESULTS: Rotavirus immunization would effectively reduce severe cases of 
rotavirus during the first 5 years of life of a child. Under the market vaccine 
price the total yearly vaccine cost would amount to US$ 65 million. The 
incremental cost per quality-adjusted-life-year (QALY) in the base case was US$ 
174 from the societal perspective. Obviously, it was much lower than the 2011 
Indonesian Gross Domestic Product (GDP) per capita of US$ 3495. Affordability 
results showed that at the Global Alliance for Vaccines and Immunization 
(GAVI)-subsidized vaccine price, rotavirus vaccination could be affordable for 
the Indonesian health system. Increased uptake of breastfeeding might slightly 
reduce cost-effectiveness results.
CONCLUSION: Rotavirus immunization in Indonesia would be a highly cost-effective 
health intervention even under the market vaccine price. The results illustrate 
that rotavirus immunization would greatly reduce the burden of disease due to 
rotavirus infection. Even within increased uptake of breastfeeding, 
cost-effectiveness remains favorable.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.04.055
PMID: 23707163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Nov;11(11):1503-10. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2013.05.014. Epub 2013 May 22.

Cost effectiveness of direct-acting antiviral therapy for treatment-naive 
patients with chronic HCV genotype 1 infection in the veterans health 
administration.

Chan K(1), Lai MN, Groessl EJ, Hanchate AD, Wong JB, Clark JA, Asch SM, Gifford 
AL, Ho SB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, College of Health and Rehabilitation Sciences, 
Sargent College, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of 
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Boston University, Boston, Massachusetts; 
VA HIV/Hepatitis Quality Enhancement Research Initiative, Edith Nourse Rogers 
Memorial Veterans Hospital, Bedford, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Oct;10(10):572-4.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: The Veterans Health Administration (VHA) is the largest 
single provider of care for hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection in the United 
States. We analyzed the cost effectiveness of treatment with the HCV protease 
inhibitors boceprevir and telaprevir in a defined managed care population of 
102,851 patients with untreated chronic genotype 1 infection.
METHODS: We used a decision-analytic Markov model to examine 4 strategies: 
standard dual-therapy with pegylated interferon-alfa and ribavirin (PR), the 
combination of boceprevir and PR triple therapy, the combination of telaprevir 
and PR, or no antiviral treatment. A sensitivity analysis was performed. Sources 
of data included published rates of disease progression, the census bureau, and 
VHA pharmacy and hospitalization cost databases.
RESULTS: The estimated costs for treating each patient were $8000 for PR, 
$31,300 for boceprevir and PR, and $41,700 for telaprevir and PR. Assuming VHA 
treatment rates of 22% and optimal rates of sustained virologic response, PR, 
boceprevir and PR, and telaprevir and PR would reduce relative liver-related 
deaths by 5.2%, 10.9%, and 11.5%, respectively. Increasing treatment rates to 
50% would reduce liver-related deaths by 12%, 24.7%, and 26.1%, respectively. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were $29,184/quality-adjusted 
life-years for boceprevir and PR and $44,247/quality-adjusted life-years for 
telaprevir and PR vs only PR. With the current 22% treatment rate, total 
system-wide costs to adopt boceprevir and PR or telaprevir and PR would range 
from $708 to $943 million.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite substantial up-front costs of treating HCV-infected 
patients in the VHA with PR, or telaprevir and PR, each regimen improves quality 
of life and extends life expectancy by reducing liver-related morbidity and 
mortality, and should be cost effective. Further efforts to expand access to 
direct-acting antiviral therapy are warranted.

Copyright © 2013 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2013.05.014
PMID: 23707354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. J Hepatol. 2013 Oct;59(4):658-66. doi: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.05.019. Epub 2013
May  23.

Cost-effectiveness of boceprevir or telaprevir for previously treated patients 
with genotype 1 chronic hepatitis C.

Cammà C(1), Petta S, Cabibbo G, Ruggeri M, Enea M, Bruno R, Capursi V, 
Gasbarrini A, Alberti A, Craxì A; WEF Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Sezione di Gastroenterologia, Di.Bi.M.I.S., University of Palermo, Italy. 
Electronic address: calogero.camma@unipa.it.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs) show that triple therapy 
(TT) with peginterferon alfa, ribavirin, and boceprevir (BOC) or telaprevir 
(TVR) is more effective than peginterferon-ribavirin dual therapy (DT) in the 
treatment of genotype 1 (G1) chronic hepatitis C (CHC) patients with previous 
relapse (RR), partial response (PAR), and null-response (NR). We assess the 
cost-effectiveness of TT compared to no therapy in the treatment of patients 
previously treated with G1 CHC.
METHODS: The available published literature provided the data source. The target 
population was made up of previously treated Caucasian patients with G1 CHC and 
these were evaluated over a lifetime horizon by Markov model. The study was 
carried out from the perspective of the Italian National Health Service. 
Outcomes included discounted costs (in euro at 2012 value), life years gained 
(LYG), quality adjusted life year (QALY), and incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER).The robustness of the results was evaluated by one-way 
deterministic and multivariable probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In RR patients, ICER per LYG compared to no therapy was €9555 for 
BOC-LEAD-IN-RR and €7910 for TVR-LEAD-IN-RR, being BOC dominated by TVR. In PAR 
patients, ICER for LYG was €11,947 for BOC-LEAD-IN-PAR and €14,931 for TVR-PAR, 
being TVR cost-effective compared to BOC (ICER for QALY €22,258). In NR 
patients, ICER for LYG was €26,499 for TVR-LEAD-IN-NR. The models were sensitive 
to likelihood of sustained virological response and to BOC/TVR prices.
CONCLUSIONS: 1st generation HCV PI is highly cost-effective compared to no 
therapy in RR and PAR G1 CHC patients. TVR dominated BOC in RR, and was 
cost-effective compared to BOC in PAR patients. In NR patients an assessment of 
the response after a lead-in period should be performed to improve safety and 
cost-effectiveness.

Copyright © 2013 European Association for the Study of the Liver. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhep.2013.05.019
PMID: 23707373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. J Urol. 2013 Aug;190(2):441-9. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2013.05.032. Epub 2013
May  21.

Adjuvant and salvage radiotherapy after prostatectomy: AUA/ASTRO Guideline.

Thompson IM(1), Valicenti RK, Albertsen P, Davis BJ, Goldenberg SL, Hahn C, 
Klein E, Michalski J, Roach M, Sartor O, Wolf JS Jr, Faraday MM.

Author information:
(1)American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc., Linthicum, 
Maryland, USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2013 Aug;190(2):450-1.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this guideline is to provide a clinical framework for 
the use of radiotherapy after radical prostatectomy as adjuvant or salvage 
therapy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A systematic literature review using the PubMed®, Embase, 
and Cochrane databases was conducted to identify peer-reviewed publications 
relevant to the use of radiotherapy after prostatectomy. The review yielded 294 
articles; these publications were used to create the evidence-based guideline 
statements. Additional guidance is provided as Clinical Principles when 
insufficient evidence existed.
RESULTS: Guideline statements are provided for patient counseling, the use of 
radiotherapy in the adjuvant and salvage contexts, defining biochemical 
recurrence, and conducting a re-staging evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS: Physicians should offer adjuvant radiotherapy to patients with 
adverse pathologic findings at prostatectomy (i.e., seminal vesicle invasion, 
positive surgical margins, extraprostatic extension) and should offer salvage 
radiotherapy to patients with prostatic specific antigen or local recurrence 
after prostatectomy in whom there is no evidence of distant metastatic disease. 
The offer of radiotherapy should be made in the context of a thoughtful 
discussion of possible short- and long-term side effects of radiotherapy as well 
as the potential benefits of preventing recurrence. The decision to administer 
radiotherapy should be made by the patient and the multi-disciplinary treatment 
team with full consideration of the patient's history, values, preferences, 
quality of life, and functional status. Please visit the ASTRO and AUA websites 
(http://www.redjournal.org/webfiles/images/journals/rob/RAP%20Guideline.pdf and 
http://www.auanet.org/education/guidelines/radiation-after-prostatectomy.cfm) to 
view this guideline in its entirety, including the full literature review.

Copyright © 2013 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2013.05.032
PMID: 23707439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Exp Gerontol. 2013 Aug;48(8):824-30. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.05.056. Epub
2013  May 23.

Recovery and survival from aging-associated diseases.

Akushevich I(1), Kravchenko J, Ukraintseva S, Arbeev K, Yashin AI.

Author information:
(1)Center for Population Health and Aging, Duke University, Durham, NC 27708, 
United States. igor.akushevich@duke.edu

OBJECTIVES: Considering disease incidence to be a main contributor to healthy 
lifespan of the US elderly population may lead to erroneous conclusions when 
recovery/long-term remission factors are underestimated. Using two 
Medicare-based population datasets, we investigated the properties of recovery 
from eleven age-related diseases.
METHODS: Cohorts of patients who stopped visiting doctors during a five-year 
follow-up since disease onset were analyzed non-parametrically and using the Cox 
proportional hazard model resulted in estimated recovery and survival rates and 
evaluated the health state of recovered individuals by comparing their survival 
with non-recovered patients and the general population.
RESULTS: Recovered individuals had lower death rates than non-recovered 
patients, therefore, patients who stopped visiting doctors are a healthier 
subcohort. However, they had higher death rates than in general population for 
all considered diseases, therefore the complete recovery does not occur.
CONCLUSION: Properties of recovery/long-term remission among the US population 
of older adults with chronic diseases were uncovered and evaluated. The results 
allow for a better quantifiable contribution of age-related diseases to healthy 
life expectancy and improving forecasts of health and mortality.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.05.056
PMCID: PMC3723111
PMID: 23707929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Safety Res. 2013 Jun;45:127-31. doi: 10.1016/j.jsr.2013.02.001. Epub 2013
Feb  27.

Years of potential life lost from unintentional child and adolescent 
injuries--United States, 2000-2009.

Borse NN(1), Rudd RA, Dellinger AM, Sleet DA.

Author information:
(1)Formerly with Center for Global Health, CDC, Atlanta, GA, USA. nborse@cdc.gov

INTRODUCTION: Quantifying years of potential life lost (YPLL) highlights 
childhood causes of mortality and provides a simple method to identify important 
causes of premature death.
METHODS: CDC analyzed data from the National Vital Statistics System multiple 
cause of death files for 2000-2009.
RESULTS: An average of 890YPLL were lost each year due to unintentional injuries 
for every 100,000 persons aged 0-19 years. YPLL rates differed by sex, age 
group, race/ethnicity, injury mechanism and state.
CONCLUSIONS: This report provides new information which can be used to 
prioritize interventions and identify subgroups of the population most at risk.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsr.2013.02.001
PMID: 23708484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2014 Jan;71(1):165-81. doi: 10.1007/s00018-013-1374-5.
Epub  2013 May 26.

Cardiomyocyte growth and sarcomerogenesis at the intercalated disc.

Wilson AJ(1), Schoenauer R, Ehler E, Agarkova I, Bennett PM.

Author information:
(1)Randall Division of Cell and Molecular Biophysics, King's College London, New 
Hunt's House, Guy's Campus, London, SE1 1UL, UK, amanda.wilson@imperial.ac.uk.

Cardiomyocytes grow during heart maturation or disease-related cardiac 
remodeling. We present evidence that the intercalated disc (ID) is integral to 
both longitudinal and lateral growth: increases in width are accommodated by 
lateral extension of the plicate tread regions and increases in length by 
sarcomere insertion within the ID. At the margin between myofibril and the 
folded membrane of the ID lies a transitional junction through which the thin 
filaments from the last sarcomere run to the ID membrane and it has been 
suggested that this junction acts as a proto Z-disc for sarcomere addition. In 
support of this hypothesis, we have investigated the ultrastructure of the ID in 
mouse hearts from control and dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) models, the MLP-null 
and a cardiac-specific β-catenin mutant, cΔex3, as well as in human left 
ventricle from normal and DCM samples. We find that the ID amplitude can vary 
tenfold from 0.2 μm up to a maximum of ~2 μm allowing gradual expansion during 
heart growth. At the greatest amplitude, equivalent to a sarcomere length, 
A-bands and thick filaments are found within the ID membrane loops together with 
a Z-disc, which develops at the transitional junction position. Here, also, the 
tops of the membrane folds, which are rich in αII spectrin, become enlarged and 
associated with junctional sarcoplasmic reticulum. Systematically larger ID 
amplitudes are found in DCM samples. Other morphological differences between 
mouse DCM and normal hearts suggest that sarcomere inclusion is compromised in 
the diseased hearts.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-013-1374-5
PMCID: PMC3889684
PMID: 23708682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. Orv Hetil. 2013 Jun 2;154(22):850-6. doi: 10.1556/OH.2013.29637.

[Role of simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation in the treatment of 
diabetes mellitus].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Kalmár Nagy K(1), Horváth S, Szakály P, Piros L, Langer R.

Author information:
(1)Pécsi Tudományegyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar, Klinikai Központ, 
Sebészeti Klinika, Pécs, Rákóczi út 2. 7622. kalmar@iseb.pote.hu

The life expectancy of patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus is inferior to 
that of patients with some malignancies. Simultaneous pancreas-kidney 
transplantation is the procedure providing the best survival results among all 
options of renal replacement therapy. The operative techniques and 
immunosuppresion have been standardized in the last decade. Although the number 
of transplantable organs falls behind the need, simultaneous pancreas-kidney 
transplantation is the method of choice for the eligible patients. The results 
of the two Hungarian simultaneous pancreas-kidney transplantation programs are 
in accordance with data published in the international literature.

Publisher: A veseelégtelenséggel szövődött 1-es típusú diabetes mellitus 
esetében a betegek életkilátása rosszabb, mint néhány rosszindulatú betegségben 
szenvedő betegé. A vesepótló kezelések minden formája közül a szimultán 
hasnyálmirigy-vese transzplantáció biztosítja a legjobb betegtúlélési 
eredményeket. A műtéti technika és az immunszuppressziós kezelés az elmúlt 
évtized során egyre inkább egységesült. Bár a transzplantálható szervek száma 
messze elmarad az igény mögött, a szimultán hasnyálmirigy-vese átültetés a 
legeredményesebb kezelési alternatívaként ajánlható az arra alkalmas betegeknek. 
A hazai két hasnyálmirigy-transzplantációs programban elvégzett több mint 100 
szimultán hasnyálmirigy-vese transzplantáció eredményei összhangban vannak a 
nemzetközi eredményekkel. Orv. Hetil., 2013, 154, 850–856.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2013.29637
PMID: 23708985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Mar;32(3):235-43. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0065-2.

Cost-utility analysis of the newly recommended adjuvant chemotherapy for 
resectable gastric cancer patients in the 2011 Chinese National Comprehensive 
Cancer Network (NCCN) Clinical Practice Guidelines in Oncology: Gastric Cancer.

Chongqing T(1), Liubao P, Xiaohui Z, Jianhe L, Xiaomin W, Gannong C, Siying W, 
Lihui O, Ziying Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, 139 Ren-Min-Zhong Road, Changsha, 410011, People's Republic of 
China.

BACKGROUND: Postoperative adjuvant chemotherapy with capecitabine and 
oxaliplatin was first recommended for resectable gastric cancer patients in the 
2011 Chinese National Comprehensive Cancer Network Clinical Practice Guidelines 
in Oncology: Gastric Cancer, but the economic influence of this therapy in China 
is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the present study was to determine the cost-effectiveness 
of adjuvant chemotherapy with capecitabine and oxaliplatin after a gastrectomy 
with extended (D2) lymph-node dissection, compared with a D2 gastrectomy alone, 
for patients with stage II-IIIB gastric cancer.
METHODS: On the basis of data from the CLASSIC trial, a Markov model was created 
to determine economic and clinical data for patients in the chemotherapy and 
surgery group (CSG) and the surgery-only group (SOG). The costs, presented in 
2010 US dollars and estimated from the perspective of the Chinese health-care 
system, were obtained from the published literature and the local health system. 
The utilities were based on published literature. Costs, life years (LYs), 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICER) were estimated. A lifetime horizon and a 3 % annual discount rate were 
used. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: For the base case, the CSG compared with SOG would increase LYs and 
QALYs in a 3-, 5-, 10- or 30-year time horizon (except the QALYs at 3 or 5 
years). In the short run (such as in 3 or 5 years), the medical costs would 
increase owing to adjuvant chemotherapy of capecitabine plus oxaliplatin after 
D2 gastrectomy, but in the long run the costs would decline. The ICERs suggested 
that the SOG was dominant at 3 or 5 years and the CSG was dominant at 10 or 30 
years. The one-way sensitivity analysis showed that the utility of disease-free 
survival for 1-10 years for the SOG and the cost of oxaliplatin were the most 
influential parameters. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis predicted a 98.6 
% likelihood that the ICER for the CSG would be less than US$13,527/QALY (three 
times the per capita gross domestic product of China).
CONCLUSION: For patients in China with resectable disease, our results suggest 
that adjuvant chemotherapy with capecitabine plus oxaliplatin after a D2 
gastrectomy is cost-saving and dominant in the long run on the basis of a 
current clinical trial, compared with treatment with a D2 gastrectomy alone.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0065-2
PMID: 23709451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Int J Otolaryngol. 2013;2013:308509. doi: 10.1155/2013/308509. Epub 2013 Apr
28.

The need for improved detection and management of adult-onset hearing loss in 
australia.

McMahon CM(1), Gopinath B, Schneider J, Reath J, Hickson L, Leeder SR, Mitchell 
P, Cowan R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Language Sciences, Australian Hearing Hub, 16 University Dve, 
Macquarie University, North Ryde, NSW 2109, Australia ; HEARing Cooperative 
Research Centre, 550 Swanston St, Audiology, Hearing and Speech Sciences 
University of Melbourne, VIC 3010, Australia.

Adult-onset hearing loss is insidious and typically diagnosed and managed 
several years after onset. Often, this is after the loss having led to multiple 
negative consequences including effects on employment, depressive symptoms, and 
increased risk of mortality. In contrast, the use of hearing aids is associated 
with reduced depression, longer life expectancy, and retention in the workplace. 
Despite this, several studies indicate high levels of unmet need for hearing 
health services in older adults and poor use of prescribed hearing aids, often 
leading to their abandonment. In Australia, the largest component of financial 
cost of hearing loss (excluding the loss of well-being) is due to lost workplace 
productivity. Nonetheless, the Australian public health system does not have an 
effective and sustainable hearing screening strategy to tackle the problem of 
poor detection of adult-onset hearing loss. Given the increasing prevalence and 
disease burden of hearing impairment in adults, two key areas are not adequately 
met in the Australian healthcare system: (1) early identification of persons 
with chronic hearing impairment; (2) appropriate and targeted referral of these 
patients to hearing health service providers. This paper reviews the current 
literature, including population-based data from the Blue Mountains Hearing 
Study, and suggests different models for early detection of adult-onset hearing 
loss.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/308509
PMCID: PMC3655600
PMID: 23710184


140. World J Cardiol. 2013 May 26;5(5):119-23. doi: 10.4330/wjc.v5.i5.119.

Editorial on hemoglobin A1c, blood pressure, and low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol goals in diabetics.

Aronow WS(1).

Author information:
(1)Wilbert S Aronow, Division of Cardiology, Department of Medicine, Westchester 
Medical Center/New York Medical College, Valhalla, NY 10595, United States.

The American Diabetes Association (ADA) 2013 guidelines state that a reasonable 
hemoglobin A1c goal for many nonpregnant adults with diabetes is less than 7.0% 
a hemoglobin A1c level of less than 6.5% may be considered in adults with short 
duration of diabetes, long life expectancy, and no significant cardiovascular 
disease if this can be achieved without significant hypoglycemia or other 
adverse effects of treatment. A hemoglobin A1c level less than 8.0% may be 
appropriate for patients with a history of severe hypoglycemia, limited life 
expectancy, advanced macrovascular and microvascular complications, extensive 
comorbidities, and long-standing diabetes in whom the hemoglobin A1c goal is 
difficult to attain despite multiple glucose-lowering drugs including insulin. 
The ADA 2013 guidelines recommend that the systolic blood pressure in most 
diabetics with hypertension should be reduced to less than 140 mmHg. These 
guidelines also recommend use of an angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor or 
angiotensin receptor blocker in the treatment of hypertension in diabetics 
unless they are pregnant. Diabetics at high risk for cardiovascular events 
should have their serum low-density lipoprotein (LDL) cholesterol lowered to 
less than 70 mg/dL with statins. Lower-risk diabetics should have their serum 
LDL cholesterol reduced to less than 100 mg/dL. Combination therapy of a statin 
with either a fibrate or niacin has not been shown to provide additional 
cardiovascular benefit above statin therapy alone and is not recommended. 
Hypertriglyceridemia should be treated with dietary and lifestyle changes. 
Severe hypertriglyceridemia should be treated with drug therapy to reduce the 
risk of acute pancreatitis.

DOI: 10.4330/wjc.v5.i5.119
PMCID: PMC3663125
PMID: 23710298


141. Pain Med. 2013 Nov;14(11):1631-49. doi: 10.1111/pme.12146. Epub 2013 May 24.

Cost-effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation therapy in management of chronic 
pain.

Kumar K(1), Rizvi S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Saskatchewan, Regina General 
Hospital, Regina, Saskatchewan, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of spinal cord stimulation (SCS) 
and conventional medical management (CMM) compared with CMM alone for patients 
with failed back surgery syndrome (FBSS), complex regional pain syndrome (CRPS), 
peripheral arterial disease (PAD), and refractory angina pectoris (RAP).
DESIGN: Markov models were developed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of SCS 
vs CMM alone from the perspective of a Canadian provincial Ministry of Health. 
Each model followed costs and outcomes in 6-month cycles. Health effects were 
expressed as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Costs were gathered from 
public sources and expressed in 2012 Canadian dollars (CAN$). Costs and effects 
were calculated over a 20-year time horizon and discounted at 3.5% annually, as 
suggested by the National Institute of Clinical Excellence. Cost-effectiveness 
was identified by deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analysis (50,000 
Monte-Carlo iterations). Outcome measures were: cost, QALY, incremental net 
monetary benefit (INMB), incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), expected 
value of perfect information (EVPI), and strategy selection frequency.
RESULTS: The ICER for SCS was: CAN$ 9,293 (FBSS), CAN$ 11,216 (CRPS), CAN$ 9,319 
(PAD), CAN$ 9,984 (RAP) per QALY gained, respectively. SCS provided the optimal 
economic path. The probability of SCS being cost-effective compared with CMM was 
75-95% depending on pathology. SCS generates a positive INMB for treatment of 
pain syndromes. Sensitivity analyses demonstrated that results were robust to 
plausible variations in model costs and effectiveness inputs. Per-patient EVPI 
was low, indicating that gathering additional information for model parameters 
would not significantly impact results.
CONCLUSION: SCS with CMM is cost-effective compared with CMM alone in the 
management of FBSS, CRPS, PAD, and RAP.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/pme.12146
PMID: 23710759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Inform Prim Care. 2012;20(2):95-102. doi: 10.14236/jhi.v20i2.30.

Can data extraction from general practitioners' electronic records be used to 
predict clinical outcomes for patients with type 2 diabetes?

Staff M(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Sydney, Australia. mstaff@nsccahs.health.nsw.gov.au

BACKGROUND: The review of clinical data extraction from electronic records is 
increasingly being used as a tool to assist general practitioners (GPs) manage 
their patients in Australia. Type 2 diabetes (T2DM) is a chronic condition cared 
for primarily in the general practice setting that lends itself to the 
application of tools in this area.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the feasibility of extracting data from a general practice 
medical record software package to predict clinically significant outcomes for 
patients with T2DM.
METHODS: A pilot study was conducted involving two large practices where 
routinely collected clinical data were extracted and inputted into the United 
Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study Outcomes Model to predict life expectancy. An 
initial assessment of the completeness of data available was performed and then 
for those patients aged between 45 and 64 years with adequate data life 
expectancies estimated.
RESULTS: A total of 1019 patients were identified as current patients with T2DM. 
There were sufficient data available on 40% of patients from one practice and 
49% from the other to provide inputs into the UKPDS Outcomes Model. Predicted 
life expectancy was similar across the practices with women having longer life 
expectancies than men. Improved compliance with current management guidelines 
for glycaemic, lipid and blood pressure control was demonstrated to increase 
life expectancy between 1.0 and 2.4 years dependent on gender and age group.
CONCLUSION: This pilot demonstrated that clinical data extraction from 
electronic records is feasible although there are several limitations chiefly 
caused by the incompleteness of data for patients with T2DM.

DOI: 10.14236/jhi.v20i2.30
PMID: 23710774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Clin Exp Rheumatol. 2013 Jul-Aug;31(4):575-83. Epub 2013 May 27.

Abatacept or infliximab for patients with rheumatoid arthritis and inadequate 
response to methotrexate: an Italian trial-based and real-life cost-consequence 
analysis.

Benucci M(1), Stam WB, Gilloteau I, Sennfält K, Leclerc A, Maetzel A, Lucioni C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Hospital San Giovanni di Dio, Florence, 
Italy. maurizio.benucci@asf.toscana.it

OBJECTIVES: In the 1-year, double-blind, placebo-controlled ATTEST trial, 
efficacy of abatacept or infliximab versus placebo was reported in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) and an inadequate response to methotrexate (MTX). The 
current study estimated trial-based and real-life costs of abatacept and 
infliximab for achieving pre-defined remission or low disease activity state 
(LDAS).
METHODS: Quantity of drug, serious adverse event (SAE) rates and time (months) 
in remission or LDAS were taken from ATTEST for the trial-based calculation to 
derive a cost per remitting/LDAS patient and a cost per patient-month in 
remission/LDAS. Trial-based and real-life scenarios were performed.
RESULTS: The annual trial-based costs per remitting/LDAS patient were 
€70.238/€37.208 for abatacept and €85.565/€46.602 for infliximab. In the first 6 
months of the ATTEST trial, costs per patient-month in remission/LDAS were 
higher for abatacept (€11.024 and €6.018, respectively), relative to infliximab 
