GD, Vavilala MS, Vos T, Wagner GR, Weinstock MA, Weisskopf MG, Wulf S, Murray; 
U.S. Burden of Disease Collaborators.

Collaborators: Murray CJ, Abraham J, Ali MK, Alvarado M, Atkinson C, Baddour LM, 
Bartels DH, Benjamin EJ, Bhalla K, Birbeck G, Bolliger I, Burstein R, Carnahan 
E, Chen H, Chou D, Chugh SS, Cohen A, Colson K, Cooper LT, Couser W, Criqui MH, 
Dabhadkar KC, Dahodwala N, Danaei G, Dellavalle RP, Jarlais DC, Dicker D, Ding 
EL, Dorsey E, Duber H, Ebel BE, Engell RE, Ezzati M, Felson DT, Finucane MM, 
Flaxman S, Flaxman AD, Fleming T, Forouzanfar MH, Freedman G, Freeman MK, 
Gabriel SE, Gakidou E, Gillum RF, Gonzalez-Medina D, Gosselin R, Grant B, 
Gutierrez HR, Hagan H, Havmoeller R, Hoffman H, Jacobsen KH, James SL, 
Jasrasaria R, Jayaraman S, Johns N, Kassebaum N, Khatibzadeh S, Knowlton LM, Lan 
Q, Leasher JL, Lim S, Lin JK, Lipshultz SE, London S, Lozano R, Lu Y, MacIntyre 
MF, Mallinger L, McDermott MM, Meltzer M, Mensah GA, Michaud C, Miller TR, Mock 
C, Moffitt TE, Mokdad AA, Mokdad AH, Moran AE, Mozaffarian D, Murphy T, Naghavi 
M, Narayan K, Nelson RG, Olives C, Omer SB, Ortblad K, Ostro B, Pelizzari PM, 
Phillips D, Pope C 3rd, Raju M, Ranganathan D, Razavi H, Ritz B, Rivara FP, 
Roberts T, Sacco RL, Salomon JA, Sampson U, Sanman E, Sapkota A, Schwebel DC, 
Shahraz S, Shibuya K, Shivakoti R, Silberberg D, Singh GM, Singh D, Singh JA, 
Sleet DA, Steenland K, Tavakkoli M, Taylor JA, Thurston GD, Towbin JA, Vavilala 
MS, Vos T, Wagner GR, Weinstock MA, Weisskopf MG, Wilkinson JD, Wulf S, Zabetian 
A, Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, 2301 Fifth Ave., Suite 600, 
Seattle, WA, 98121, USA. cjlm@uw.edu

Comment in
    JAMA. 2013 Aug 14;310(6):585-6.

IMPORTANCE: Understanding the major health problems in the United States and how 
they are changing over time is critical for informing national health policy.
OBJECTIVES: To measure the burden of diseases, injuries, and leading risk 
factors in the United States from 1990 to 2010 and to compare these measurements 
with those of the 34 countries in the Organisation for Economic Co-operation and 
Development (OECD) countries.
DESIGN: We used the systematic analysis of descriptive epidemiology of 291 
diseases and injuries, 1160 sequelae of these diseases and injuries, and 67 risk 
factors or clusters of risk factors from 1990 to 2010 for 187 countries 
developed for the Global Burden of Disease 2010 Study to describe the health 
status of the United States and to compare US health outcomes with those of 34 
OECD countries. Years of life lost due to premature mortality (YLLs) were 
computed by multiplying the number of deaths at each age by a reference life 
expectancy at that age. Years lived with disability (YLDs) were calculated by 
multiplying prevalence (based on systematic reviews) by the disability weight 
(based on population-based surveys) for each sequela; disability in this study 
refers to any short- or long-term loss of health. Disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALYs) were estimated as the sum of YLDs and YLLs. Deaths and DALYs related to 
risk factors were based on systematic reviews and meta-analyses of exposure data 
and relative risks for risk-outcome pairs. Healthy life expectancy (HALE) was 
used to summarize overall population health, accounting for both length of life 
and levels of ill health experienced at different ages.
RESULTS: US life expectancy for both sexes combined increased from 75.2 years in 
1990 to 78.2 years in 2010; during the same period, HALE increased from 65.8 
years to 68.1 years. The diseases and injuries with the largest number of YLLs 
in 2010 were ischemic heart disease, lung cancer, stroke, chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease, and road injury. Age-standardized YLL rates increased for 
Alzheimer disease, drug use disorders, chronic kidney disease, kidney cancer, 
and falls. The diseases with the largest number of YLDs in 2010 were low back 
pain, major depressive disorder, other musculoskeletal disorders, neck pain, and 
anxiety disorders. As the US population has aged, YLDs have comprised a larger 
share of DALYs than have YLLs. The leading risk factors related to DALYs were 
dietary risks, tobacco smoking, high body mass index, high blood pressure, high 
fasting plasma glucose, physical inactivity, and alcohol use. Among 34 OECD 
countries between 1990 and 2010, the US rank for the age-standardized death rate 
changed from 18th to 27th, for the age-standardized YLL rate from 23rd to 28th, 
for the age-standardized YLD rate from 5th to 6th, for life expectancy at birth 
from 20th to 27th, and for HALE from 14th to 26th.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: From 1990 to 2010, the United States made substantial 
progress in improving health. Life expectancy at birth and HALE increased, 
all-cause death rates at all ages decreased, and age-specific rates of years 
lived with disability remained stable. However, morbidity and chronic disability 
now account for nearly half of the US health burden, and improvements in 
population health in the United States have not kept pace with advances in 
population health in other wealthy nations.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.13805
PMCID: PMC5436627
PMID: 23842577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Br J Surg. 2013 Aug;100(9):1172-9. doi: 10.1002/bjs.9200.

Economic analysis of a randomized trial of percutaneous angioplasty, supervised 
exercise or combined treatment for intermittent claudication due to 
femoropopliteal arterial disease.

Mazari FA(1), Khan JA, Carradice D, Samuel N, Gohil R, McCollum PT, Chetter IC.

Author information:
(1)Academic Vascular Surgery Unit, University of Hull, Hull Royal Infirmary, 
Hull, UK. fayyaz.mazari@nhs.net

BACKGROUND: The aim was to compare costs and utilities of percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty (PTA), a supervised exercise programme (SEP) and 
combined treatment (PTA + SEP) in patients with intermittent claudication (IC) 
to establish the most cost-effective treatment.
METHODS: Patients with IC due to femoropopliteal disease were randomized to 
receive PTA, SEP or PTA + SEP. Assessments were performed before, and at 1, 3, 6 
and 12 months postintervention. Clinical and quality-of-life indicators were 
recorded. The SF-6D Health Utilities index was calculated from the Short Form 
36, plotted, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were generated by 
calculating the area under the curve. Costs were calculated using National 
Health Service 2009-2010 payment-by-results tariffs and the National Institute 
for Health Research Clinical Research Network Investigation pricing index, and 
adjusted for reinterventions. Cost per QALY and incremental costs were 
calculated, and sensitivity analyses performed.
RESULTS: A total of 178 patients (PTA, 60; SEP, 60; PTA + SEP, 58) were 
randomized. All treatments resulted in significant improvement in the SF-6D 
index (P < 0.001). There was no significant difference between treatments in 
mean QALYs gained (PTA: 0.620, 95 per cent confidence interval 0.588 to 0.652; 
SEP: 0.629, 0.597 to 0.660; PTA + SEP: 0.649, 0.622 to 0.675). The adjusted mean 
cost per procedure was significantly higher for PTA (€7301.74) compared with SEP 
(€3866.49) and PTA + SEP (€6911.68) (P < 0.001). The cost per QALY was 
significantly higher for PTA (€11,777.00) compared with SEP (€6147.04) and PTA + 
SEP (€10,649.74). QALYs were lost when PTA alone was used as first-line 
treatment in comparison with SEP or PTA + SEP. These results were robust and 
valid in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: Supervised exercise is the most cost-effective first-line treatment 
for IC, and when combined with PTA is more cost-effective than PTA alone.

© 2013 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.9200
PMID: 23842831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. Br J Surg. 2013 Aug;100(9):1180-8. doi: 10.1002/bjs.9195.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of enhancements to angioplasty for infrainguinal 
arterial disease.

Kearns BC(1), Michaels JA, Stevenson MD, Thomas SM.

Author information:
(1)Section of Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and 
Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. 
b.kearns@sheffield.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The aim was to perform an economic evaluation of the 
cost-effectiveness of endovascular enhancements to percutaneous transluminal 
balloon angioplasty (PTA) with bail-out bare metal stents for infrainguinal 
peripheral arterial disease.
METHODS: The following interventions were considered: PTA with no bail-out 
stenting, PTA with bail-out drug-eluting stents, drug-coated balloons, primary 
bare metal stents, primary drug-eluting stents, endovascular brachytherapy, 
stent-grafts and cryoplasty. A discrete-event simulation model was developed to 
assess the relative cost-effectiveness of the interventions from a health 
service perspective over a lifetime. Populations of patients with intermittent 
claudication (IC) and critical leg ischaemia (CLI) were modelled separately. 
Univariable and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were undertaken. 
Effectiveness was measured by quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: For both patient populations, the use of drug-coated balloons dominated 
all other options by having both lower lifetime costs and greater effectiveness. 
For willingness-to-pay thresholds between £0 and £100,000 per additional QALY, 
the probability of drug-coated balloons being cost-effective was at least 58.3 
per cent for patients with IC and at least 72.2 per cent for patients with CLI. 
Sensitivity analyses showed that the results were robust to different 
assumptions regarding the clinical benefits attributable to the interventions.
CONCLUSION: The use of drug-coated balloons represents a cost-effective 
alternative to the use of PTA with bail-out bare metal stents.

© 2013 Crown copyright. British Journal of Surgery © 2013 British Journal of 
Surgery Society Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.9195
PMID: 23842832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. JAMA. 2013 Aug 14;310(6):585-6. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.13809.

The state of health in the United States.

Fineberg HV.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2013 Aug 14;310(6):591-608.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.13809
PMID: 23843159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. PLoS Med. 2013;10(7):e1001477. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001477. Epub 2013
Jul  2.

Reflections on the global burden of disease 2010 estimates.

Byass P(1), de Courten M, Graham WJ, Laflamme L, McCaw-Binns A, Sankoh OA, 
Tollman SM, Zaba B.

Author information:
(1)Umeå Centre for Global Health Research, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden. 
peter.byass@epiph.umu.se

Peter Byass and colleagues raise questions about the recent, high-profile Global 
Burden of Disease estimates. Please see later in the article for the Editors' 
Summary

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001477
PMCID: PMC3699446
PMID: 23843748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: OAS is the Executive Director of the INDEPTH 
Network which is mentioned in the paper. PB is a member of the PLOS Medicine 
Editorial Board. All other authors have declared that no competing interests 
exist.


494. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 2;8(7):e66758. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066758. Print
2013.

Overexpression of avenin-like b proteins in bread wheat (Triticum aestivum L.) 
improves dough mixing properties by their incorporation into glutenin polymers.

Ma F(1), Li M, Li T, Liu W, Liu Y, Li Y, Hu W, Zheng Q, Wang Y, Li K, Chang J, 
Chen M, Yang G, Wang Y, He G.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Engineering International Cooperation Base of Chinese Ministry of 
Science and Technology, Chinese National Center of Plant Gene Research (Wuhan) 
HUST Part, The Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics of Chinese Ministry of 
Education, College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong University of 
Science & Technology(HUST), Wuhan, China.

Avenin-like b proteins are a small family of wheat storage proteins, each 
containing 18 or 19 cysteine residues. The role of these proteins, with high 
numbers of cysteine residues, in determining the functional properties of wheat 
flour is unclear. In the present study, two transgenic lines of the bread wheat 
overexpressing avenin-like b gene were generated to investigate the effects of 
Avenin-like b proteins on dough mixing properties. Sodium dodecyl sulfate 
sedimentation (SDSS) test and Mixograph analysis of these lines demonstrated 
that overexpression of Avenin-like b proteins in both transgenic wheat lines 
significantly increased SDSS volume and improved dough elasticity, mixing 
tolerance and resistance to extension. These changes were associated with the 
increased proportion of polymeric proteins due to the incorporation of 
overexpressed Avenin-like b proteins into the glutenin polymers. The results of 
this study were critical to confirm the hypothesis that Avenin-like b proteins 
could be integrated into glutenin polymers by inter-chain disulphide bonds, 
which could help understand the mechanism behind strengthening wheat dough 
strength.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066758
PMCID: PMC3699606
PMID: 23843964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


495. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 3;8(7):e67221. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067221. Print
2013.

Subglacial Lake Vostok (Antarctica) accretion ice contains a diverse set of 
sequences from aquatic, marine and sediment-inhabiting bacteria and eukarya.

Shtarkman YM(1), Koçer ZA, Edgar R, Veerapaneni RS, D'Elia T, Morris PF, Rogers 
SO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Bowling Green State University, Bowling 
Green, Ohio, United States of America.

Lake Vostok, the 7(th) largest (by volume) and 4(th) deepest lake on Earth, is 
covered by more than 3,700 m of ice, making it the largest subglacial lake 
known. The combination of cold, heat (from possible hydrothermal activity), 
pressure (from the overriding glacier), limited nutrients and complete darkness 
presents extreme challenges to life. Here, we report 
metagenomic/metatranscriptomic sequence analyses from four accretion ice 
sections from the Vostok 5G ice core. Two sections accreted in the vicinity of 
an embayment on the southwestern end of the lake, and the other two represented 
part of the southern main basin. We obtained 3,507 unique gene sequences from 
concentrates of 500 ml of 0.22 µm-filtered accretion ice meltwater. Taxonomic 
classifications (to genus and/or species) were possible for 1,623 of the 
sequences. Species determinations in combination with mRNA gene sequence results 
allowed deduction of the metabolic pathways represented in the accretion ice 
and, by extension, in the lake. Approximately 94% of the sequences were from 
Bacteria and 6% were from Eukarya. Only two sequences were from Archaea. In 
general, the taxa were similar to organisms previously described from lakes, 
brackish water, marine environments, soil, glaciers, ice, lake sediments, 
deep-sea sediments, deep-sea thermal vents, animals and plants. Sequences from 
aerobic, anaerobic, psychrophilic, thermophilic, halophilic, alkaliphilic, 
acidophilic, desiccation-resistant, autotrophic and heterotrophic organisms were 
present, including a number from multicellular eukaryotes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067221
PMCID: PMC3700977
PMID: 23843994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


496. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 3;8(7):e68311. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068311. Print
2013.

Population dynamics and range expansion in nine-banded armadillos.

Loughry WJ(1), Perez-Heydrich C, McDonough CM, Oli MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Valdosta State University, Valdosta, Georgia, United 
States of America. jloughry@valdosta.edu

Understanding why certain species can successfully colonize new areas while 
others do not is a central question in ecology. The nine-banded armadillo 
(Dasypus novemcinctus) is a conspicuous example of a successful invader, having 
colonized much of the southern United States in the last 200 years. We used 15 
years (1992-2006) of capture-mark-recapture data from a population of armadillos 
in northern Florida in order to estimate, and examine relationships among, 
various demographic parameters that may have contributed to this ongoing range 
expansion. Modeling across a range of values for γ, the probability of juveniles 
surviving in the population until first capture, we found that population growth 
rates varied from 0.80 for γ = 0.1, to 1.03 for γ = 1.0. Growth rates approached 
1.0 only when γ ≥ 0.80, a situation that might not occur commonly because of the 
high rate of disappearance of juveniles. Net reproductive rate increased 
linearly with γ, but life expectancy (estimated at 3 years) was independent of 
γ. We also found that growth rates were lower during a 3-year period of hardwood 
removal that removed preferred habitat than in the years preceding or following. 
Life-table response experiment (LTRE) analysis indicated the decrease in growth 
rate during logging was primarily due to changes in survival rates of adults. 
Likewise, elasticity analyses of both deterministic and stochastic population 
growth rates revealed that survival parameters were more influential on 
population growth than were those related to reproduction. Collectively, our 
results are consistent with recent theories regarding biological invasions which 
posit that populations no longer at the leading edge of range expansion do not 
exhibit strong positive growth rates, and that high reproductive output is less 
critical in predicting the likelihood of successful invasion than are 
life-history strategies that emphasize allocation of resources to future, as 
opposed to current, reproduction.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068311
PMCID: PMC3700932
PMID: 23844183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


497. J Diabetes Res. 2013;2013:797548. doi: 10.1155/2013/797548. Epub 2013 Jun
13.

Advances in murine models of diabetic nephropathy.

Kong LL(1), Wu H, Cui WP, Zhou WH, Luo P, Sun J, Yuan H, Miao LN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, The Second Hospital of Jilin University, Changchun 
130041, China.

Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is one of the microvascular complications of both type 
1 and type 2 diabetes, which is also associated with a poor life expectancy of 
diabetic patients. However, the pathogenesis of DN is still unclear. Thus, it is 
of great use to establish appropriate animal models of DN for doing research on 
pathogenesis and developing novel therapeutic strategies. Although a large 
number of murine models of DN including artificially induced, spontaneous, and 
genetically engineered (knockout and transgenic) animal models have been 
developed, none of them develops renal changes sufficiently reflecting those 
seen in humans. Here we review the identified murine models of DN from the 
aspects of genetic background, type of diabetes, method of induction, gene 
deficiency, animal age and gender, kidney histopathology, and phenotypic 
alterations in the hope of enhancing our comprehension of genetic susceptibility 
and molecular mechanisms responsible for this disease and providing new clues as 
to how to choose appropriate animal models of DN.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/797548
PMCID: PMC3697778
PMID: 23844375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. Mucopolysaccharidosis Type IVA.

Regier DS(1), Oetgen M(1), Tanpaiboon P(1).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2013 Jul 11 [updated 2021 Jun 17].

Author information:
(1)Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: The phenotypic spectrum of mucopolysaccharidosis IVA 
(MPS IVA) is a continuum that ranges from a severe and rapidly progressive 
early-onset form to a slowly progressive later-onset form. Children with MPS IVA 
typically have no distinctive clinical findings at birth. The severe form is 
usually apparent between ages one and three years, often first manifesting as 
kyphoscoliosis, genu valgum (knock-knee), and pectus carinatum; the slowly 
progressive form may not become evident until late childhood or adolescence, 
often first manifesting as hip problems (pain, stiffness, and Legg Perthes 
disease). Progressive bone and joint involvement leads to short stature, and 
eventually to disabling pain and arthritis. Involvement of other organ systems 
can lead to significant morbidity, including respiratory compromise, obstructive 
sleep apnea, valvular heart disease, hearing impairment, visual impairment from 
corneal clouding, dental abnormalities, and hepatomegaly. Compression of the 
spinal cord is a common complication that results in neurologic impairment. 
Children with MPS IVA have normal intellectual abilities at the outset of the 
disease.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of MPS IVA is established in a proband by 
identification of low N-acetylgalactosamine 6-sulfatase (GALNS) enzyme activity 
in cultured fibroblasts or leukocytes or by identification of biallelic 
pathogenic variants in GALNS on molecular genetic testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Enzyme replacement therapy (elosulfase 
alfa) is available, although the data on long-term effects of this treatment on 
the skeletal and non-skeletal features of MPS IVA are limited. Evaluation and 
management of individuals with MPS IVA are best undertaken by multiple 
specialists, coordinated by a physician specializing in the care of persons with 
complex medical problems. Physiatrists, physical therapists, and occupational 
therapists help optimize mobility and autonomy. Psychological support can 
optimize coping skills and quality of life; educational professionals can 
optimize the learning environment for a medically fragile individual. 
Upper-extremity management may include stabilizing external wrist splints or 
partial or complete wrist fusion. Surgical intervention is often required for 
lower-extremity malalignment, hip subluxation and/or hip pain, upper cervical 
spine instability, and/or progressive thoracolumbar kyphosis. Cardiac valve 
involvement may require valve replacement. Bacterial endocarditis prophylaxis is 
recommended for those with a prosthetic cardiac valve, prosthetic material used 
for cardiac valve repair, or previous infective endocarditis. Upper-airway 
obstruction and obstructive sleep apnea are managed by removal of enlarged 
tonsils and adenoids; diffuse narrowing of the airway may require positive 
airway pressure and/or tracheostomy. All affected individuals should receive 
influenza and pneumococcal immunizations as well as routine immunizations. 
Anesthesia management by an experienced anesthesiologist. Potential pre- and 
postoperative anesthetic concerns secondary to spine anomalies and difficult 
airway management need to be anticipated. Optimize nutrition and provide 
adequate vitamin D and calcium. The outcome following keratoplasty for corneal 
opacification varies. Dental care to prevent cavities and orthodontic management 
as needed. Hearing loss is often treated initially with ventilation tubes and 
later with hearing aids. School accommodations as needed to prevent physical 
injury. Surveillance: For all individuals: physical examination at least every 
six months. Annual assessment of: pain severity; disease burden including 
quality of life and activities of daily living, endurance tests to evaluate 
functional status of the cardiovascular, pulmonary, musculoskeletal, and nervous 
systems; upper and lower extremities for functionality and malalignment, hips 
for dysplasia/subluxation, and thoracolumbar spine for kyphosis. Neurologic 
examination every six months to assess for spinal cord compression; yearly 
whole-spine MRI in neutral position and cervical spine flexion-extension MRI if 
the results are inconclusive; spine radiographs every two to three years. Annual 
assessment of heart rate; electrocardiogram and echocardiogram every one to 
three years depending on disease course. Polysomnography every three years to 
assess for obstructive sleep apnea; annual pulmonary function in children older 
than age five years until growth stops, then every two to three years. Monitor 
nutritional status using MPS IVA-specific growth charts. Perform vision and eye 
exam at least annually, dental evaluation every six to 12 months, and annual 
audiogram. For those on enzyme replacement therapy: annual assessment of pain, 
disease burden parameters, and pulmonary function tests; urine keratan sulfate 
or total glycosaminoglycans every six months. Agents/circumstances to avoid: 
Excessive weight gain; beta-blockers.
GENETIC COUNSELING: MPS IVA is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If 
both parents are known to be heterozygous for a GALNS pathogenic variant, each 
sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of being affected, 
a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 25% chance of being 
unaffected and not a carrier. Once the GALNS pathogenic variants have been 
identified in an affected family member, carrier testing for at-risk family 
members, prenatal testing for a pregnancy at increased risk, and preimplantation 
genetic testing are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 23844448


499. Harefuah. 2013 Apr;152(4):194-5, 249.

[AIDS - an old disease with new challenges].

[Article in Hebrew]

Sthoeger Z(1), Mahlab-Guri K.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Immunology, Allergy and AIDS Center, Kaplan Medical Center, Rehovot, 
Israel, affiliated to the Hadassah Medical School, Jerusalem, Israel. 
Sthoeger@gmail.com

Due to highly effective anti-retroviral therapy the mortality rate from AIDS has 
been significantly reduced and HIV infection has became a chronic rather than a 
terminal disease. In Israel there are more than 5,631 people known to be HIV 
positive. The increased life expectancy of HIV-infected persons leads to an 
increase in HIV prevalence among older adults. Both HIV infection and 
anti-retroviral therapy exacerbate diseases that occur in older people, 
including cardiovascular, neurologicaL and renal diseases, as well as diabetes 
and osteoporosis. Caring for HIV-infected patients with other chronic diseases 
is challenging and requires a muLtidisciplinary approach. .

PMID: 23844517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. Harefuah. 2013 Apr;152(4):230-4, 245-6.

[Relevance of HIV resistance testing for treatment decisions].

[Article in Hebrew]

Mor O(1), Grossman Z, Avidor B, Turner D.

Author information:
(1)National HIV Reference Laboratory, Central Virology, Ministry of Health, 
Sheba Medical Center, Ramat Gan. orna.mor@sheba.health.gov.il

Resistance testing is part of the routine checkup for HIV carriers in Israel and 
in most of the developed world. Viruses with mutations which confer resistance 
to antiretroviral therapy in treated patients and in new HIV carriers are 
identified. The results of these tests form the basis for updating the HIV 
treatment guidelines and contribute to the epidemiological and phylogenetic 
understanding of the HIV epidemic. The viral reverse transcriptase and protease 
are the targets for most of the antiretroviral drugs in use today and are 
included in the standard resistance testing. Recently, genotypic examination of 
the integrase and tropism test to verify use of the HIV CCR5 co-receptor have 
been introduced to better support treatment decisions and to enable effective 
use of all available drug combinations. New and more sensitive molecular tests, 
such as ultra-deep sequencing, are expected to broaden our knowledge of rare 
mutations not detected by the currently used methodologies. Consequently, we 
will be able to improve treatment strategy and life quality and increase Life 
expectancy of HIV carriers.

PMID: 23844526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. Harefuah. 2013 Apr;152(4):235-7, 245.

[Fertility and HIV: equal opportunity for everyone].

[Article in Hebrew]

Kedem E(1), Shahar E, Hassoun G, Pollack S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Immunology and Allergy, Rambam Health Care Campus, 
Haifa. e_kedem@rambam.health.gov.il

Highly active antiretroviral treatment (HAART), the increase in life expectancy 
and improved HIV viral detection methods, have all led to a change in attitude 
towards fertility in people living with HIV. There is now acknowledgment of the 
fundamental rights of HIV patients to parenthood and growing implementation of 
assisted fertility in this group. The aims of fertility treatment are prevention 
of infection in HIV-discordant couples, and treatment for fertility problems, 
identical to the general population. We review the influence of HIV on the 
reproduction systems of males and females, conditions requiring fertility 
intervention, various methods that are possible and describe the optional 
treatment existing in Israel for patients with viral infection, and specifically 
HIV.

PMID: 23844527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. Harefuah. 2013 Apr;152(4):238-41, 245.

[Metabolic bone disorders in HIV patients].

[Article in Hebrew]

Reisfeld S(1), Chowers M.

Author information:
(1)Meir Medical Center.

The life expectancy of HIV patients has increased dramatically since the 
introduction of combination antiretroviral therapy. This led to an increase in 
the incidence of non-AIDS related diseases, such as liver diseases, malignancies 
and metabolic disorders. Increased incidence of osteoporosis and bone fractures 
was found in HIV patients compared to the general population. The causes were 
multifactorial, combining traditional risk factors (such as age, sex, low 
weight, smoking, steroid treatment, vitamin D deficiency), with risk factors 
associated with the viral infection itself (increased bone loss and decreased 
bone formation), and to a lesser extent from the antiretroviral treatment 
itself. An association between bone density loss and antiviral drugs such as 
Tenofovir, and different protease inhibitors, was found in several studies, but 
no definite evidence of an increased risk of bone fractures was found. Current 
American guidelines recommend screening for low bone density only HIV patients 
who are over 50 years of age with a risk factor for osteoporosis. European 
guidelines recommend screening all HIV patients older than 50 years. HIV 
patients at risk for fractures should be treated according to local guidelines 
in the general population. Currently, no recommendations exist to change any 
specific antiretroviral therapy in case of osteoporosis, unless there are 
specific circumstances.

PMID: 23844528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. J Med Econ. 2013 Sep;16(9):1096-105. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.823869. Epub
 2013 Jul 31.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of atypical long-acting antipsychotics for treating 
chronic schizophrenia in Finland.

Einarson TR(1), Pudas H, Zilbershtein R, Jensen R, Vicente C, Piwko C, Hemels 
ME.

Author information:
(1)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, Canada. 
t.einarson@rogers.com

Erratum in
    J Med Econ. 2013 Nov;16(11):1366.

OBJECTIVE: In Finland, regional rates of schizophrenia exceed those in most 
countries, impacting the healthcare burden. This study determined the 
cost-effectiveness of long-acting antipsychotic (LAI) drugs paliperidone 
palmitate (PP-LAI), olanzapine pamoate (OLZ-LAI), and risperidone (RIS-LAI) for 
chronic schizophrenia.
METHOD: This study adapted a decision tree analysis from Norway for the Finnish 
National Health Service. Country-specific data were sought from the literature 
and public documents, guided by clinical experts. Costs of health services and 
products were retrieved from literature sources and current price lists. This 
simulation study estimated average 1-year costs for treating patients with each 
LAI, average remission days, rates of hospitalization and emergency room visits 
and quality-adjusted life-years (QALY).
RESULTS: PP-LAI was dominant. Its estimated annual average cost was 
€10,380/patient and was associated with 0.817 QALY; OLZ-LAI cost €12,145 with 
0.810 QALY; RIS-LAI cost €12,074 with 0.809 QALY. PP-LAI had the lowest rates of 
hospitalization, emergency room visits, and relapse days. This analysis was 
robust against most variations in input values except adherence rates. PP-LAI 
was dominant over OLZ-LAI and RIS-LAI in 77.8% and 85.9% of simulations, 
respectively. Limitations include the 1-year time horizon (as opposed to 
lifetime costs), omission of the costs of adverse events, and the assumption of 
universal accessibility.
CONCLUSION: In Finland, PP-LAI dominated the other LAIs as it was associated 
with a lower cost and better clinical outcomes.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.823869
PMID: 23844621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Int J Equity Health. 2013 Jul 11;12:52. doi: 10.1186/1475-9276-12-52.

Health inequalities in Ethiopia: modeling inequalities in length of life within 
and between population groups.

Tranvåg EJ, Ali M, Norheim OF.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Most studies on health inequalities use average 
measures, but describing the distribution of health can also provide valuable 
knowledge. In this paper, we estimate and compare within-group and between-group 
inequalities in length of life for population groups in Ethiopia in 2000 and 
2011.
METHODS: We used data from the 2011 and 2000 Ethiopia Demographic and Health 
Survey and the Global Burden of Disease study 2010, and the MODMATCH modified 
logit life table system developed by the World Health Organization to model 
mortality rates, life expectancy, and length of life for Ethiopian population 
groups stratified by wealth quintiles, gender and residence. We then estimated 
and compared within-group and between-group inequality in length of life using 
the Gini index and absolute length of life inequality.
RESULTS: Length of life inequality has decreased and life expectancy has 
increased for all population groups between 2000 and 2011. Length of life 
inequality within wealth quintiles is about three times larger than the 
between-group inequality of 9 years. Total length of life inequality in Ethiopia 
was 27.6 years in 2011.
CONCLUSION: Longevity has increased and the distribution of health in Ethiopia 
is more equal in 2011 than 2000, with length of life inequality reduced for all 
population groups. Still there is considerable potential for further 
improvement. In the Ethiopian context with a poor and highly rural population, 
inequality in length of life within wealth quintiles is considerably larger than 
between them. This suggests that other factors than wealth substantially 
contribute to total health inequality in Ethiopia and that identification and 
quantification of these factors will be important for identifying proper 
measures to further reduce length of life inequality.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-12-52
PMCID: PMC3716728
PMID: 23845045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


505. Stem Cell Res. 2013 Sep;11(2):902-12. doi: 10.1016/j.scr.2013.06.002. Epub
2013  Jun 10.

Polysome profiling shows extensive posttranscriptional regulation during human 
adipocyte stem cell differentiation into adipocytes.

Spangenberg L(1), Shigunov P, Abud AP, Cofré AR, Stimamiglio MA, Kuligovski C, 
Zych J, Schittini AV, Costa AD, Rebelatto CK, Brofman PR, Goldenberg S, Correa 
A, Naya H, Dallagiovanna B.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Bioinformática, Institut Pasteur Montevideo, Mataojo 2020, 
Montevideo 11400, Uruguay.

Adipocyte stem cells (hASCs) can proliferate and self-renew and, due to their 
multipotent nature, they can differentiate into several tissue-specific 
lineages, making them ideal candidates for use in cell therapy. Most attempts to 
determine the mRNA profile of self-renewing or differentiating stem cells have 
made use of total RNA for gene expression analysis. Several lines of evidence 
suggest that self-renewal and differentiation are also dependent on the control 
of protein synthesis by posttranscriptional mechanisms. We used adipogenic 
differentiation as a model, to investigate the extent to which 
posttranscriptional regulation controlled gene expression in hASCs. We focused 
on the initial steps of differentiation and isolated both the total mRNA 
fraction and the subpopulation of mRNAs associated with translating ribosomes. 
We observed that adipogenesis is committed in the first days of induction and 
three days appears as the minimum time of induction necessary for efficient 
differentiation. RNA-seq analysis showed that a significant percentage of 
regulated mRNAs were posttranscriptionally controlled. Part of this regulation 
involves massive changes in transcript untranslated regions (UTR) length, with 
differential extension/reduction of the 3'UTR after induction. A slight 
correlation can be observed between the expression levels of differentially 
expressed genes and the 3'UTR length. When we considered association to 
polysomes, this correlation values increased. Changes in the half lives were 
related to the extension of the 3'UTR, with longer UTRs mainly stabilizing the 
transcripts. Thus, changes in the length of these extensions may be associated 
with changes in the ability to associate with polysomes or in half-life.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scr.2013.06.002
PMID: 23845413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. Midwifery. 2013 Oct;29(10):1173-81. doi: 10.1016/j.midw.2013.06.002. Epub
2013  Jul 8.

Childbirth traditions and cultural perceptions of safety in Nepal: critical 
spaces to ensure the survival of mothers and newborns in remote mountain 
villages.

Kaphle S(1), Hancock H, Newman LA.

Author information:
(1)7 Dobies Court, Westmeadows, VIC 3049, Australia. Electronic address: 
sabitrakaphle@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: to uncover local beliefs regarding pregnancy and birth in remote 
mountainous villages of Nepal in order to understand the factors which impact on 
women's experiences of pregnancy and childbirth and the related interplay of 
tradition, spiritual beliefs, risk and safety which impact on those experiences.
DESIGN: this study used a qualitative methodological approach with in-depth 
interviews framework within social constructionist and feminist critical 
theories.
SETTING: the setting comprised two remote Nepalese mountain villages where women 
have high rates of illiteracy, poverty, disadvantage, maternal and newborn 
mortality, and low life expectancy. Interviews were conducted between February 
and June, 2010.
PARTICIPANTS: twenty five pregnant/postnatal women, five husbands, five 
mothers-in-law, one father-in-law, five service providers and five community 
stakeholders from the local communities were involved.
FINDINGS: Nepalese women, their families and most of their community strongly 
value their childbirth traditions and associated spiritual beliefs and they 
profoundly shape women's views of safety and risk during pregnancy and 
childbirth, influencing how birth and new motherhood fit into daily life. These 
intense culturally-based views of childbirth safety and risk conflict starkly 
with the medical view of childbirth safety and risk.
KEY CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: if maternity services are to 
improve maternal and neonatal survival rates in Nepal, maternity care providers 
must genuinely partner with local women inclusive of their cultural beliefs, and 
provide locally based primary maternity care. Women will then be more likely to 
attend maternity care services, and benefit from feeling culturally safe and 
culturally respected within their spiritual traditions of birth supported by the 
reduction of risk provided by informed and reverent medicalised care.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.midw.2013.06.002
PMID: 23845450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2013 Aug 1;86(5):822-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2013.05.029.

Adjuvant and salvage radiation therapy after prostatectomy: American Society for 
Radiation Oncology/American Urological Association guidelines.

Valicenti RK(1), Thompson I Jr, Albertsen P, Davis BJ, Goldenberg SL, Wolf JS, 
Sartor O, Klein E, Hahn C, Michalski J, Roach M 3rd, Faraday MM; American 
Society for Radiation Oncology/American Urological Association.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of California, Davis School of 
Medicine, Davis, California, USA. Richard.valicenti@ucdmc.ucdavis.edu

PURPOSE: The purpose of this guideline was to provide a clinical framework for 
the use of radiation therapy after radical prostatectomy as adjuvant or salvage 
therapy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A systematic literature review using PubMed, Embase, and 
Cochrane database was conducted to identify peer-reviewed publications relevant 
to the use of radiation therapy after prostatectomy. The review yielded 294 
articles; these publications were used to create the evidence-based guideline 
statements. Additional guidance is provided as Clinical Principles when 
insufficient evidence existed.
RESULTS: Guideline statements are provided for patient counseling, use of 
radiation therapy in the adjuvant and salvage contexts, defining biochemical 
recurrence, and conducting a restaging evaluation.
CONCLUSIONS: Physicians should offer adjuvant radiation therapy to patients with 
adverse pathologic findings at prostatectomy (ie, seminal vesicle invastion, 
positive surgical margins, extraprostatic extension) and salvage radiation 
therapy to patients with prostate-specific antigen (PSA) or local recurrence 
after prostatectomy in whom there is no evidence of distant metastatic disease. 
The offer of radiation therapy should be made in the context of a thoughtful 
discussion of possible short- and long-term side effects of radiation therapy as 
well as the potential benefits of preventing recurrence. The decision to 
administer radiation therapy should be made by the patient and the 
multidisciplinary treatment team with full consideration of the patient's 
history, values, preferences, quality of life, and functional status. The 
American Society for Radiation Oncology and American Urological Association 
websites show this guideline in its entirety, including the full literature 
review.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2013.05.029
PMID: 23845839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. J Med Ethics. 2014 Jul;40(7):458-62. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2013-101459.

Estimating the potential life-shortening effect of continuous sedation until 
death: a comparison between two approaches.

Bruinsma SM, Rietjens JA, Swart SJ, Perez RS, van Delden JJ, van der Heide A.

CONTEXT: In some cases, physicians estimate that continuous sedation until death 
may have a life shortening effect. The accuracy of these estimations can be 
questioned.
AIM: The aim of this study is to compare two approaches to estimate the 
potential life-shortening effect of continuous sedation until death.
METHODS: In 2008, 370 Dutch physicians filled out a questionnaire and reported 
on their last patient who received continuous sedation until death. The 
potential life-shortening effect of continuous sedation was estimated through a 
direct approach (question: Did continuous sedation, according to your 
estimation,hasten the patient's death? If yes: by how much time?)and an indirect 
approach (estimated life expectancy minus duration of sedation). The intrarater 
agreement between both approaches was determined with a weighted κ.
RESULTS: According to the direct approach, sedation might have had a 
life-shortening effect in 51% of the cases and according to the indirect 
approach in 84%.The intrarater agreement between both approaches was fair 
(weighted κ=0.38). In 10% of all cases, the direct approach yielded higher 
estimates of the extent to which life had been shortened; in 58% of the cases, 
the indirect approach yielded higher estimates.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show a discrepancy between different approaches to 
estimate the potential life shortening effect of continuous sedation until 
death.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2013-101459
PMID: 23845927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. IEEE Trans Vis Comput Graph. 2013 Sep;19(9):1579-91. doi:
10.1109/TVCG.2013.18.

Visualization and analysis of vortex-turbine intersections in wind farms.

Shafii S(1), Obermaier H, Linn R, Koo E, Hlawitschka M, Garth C, Hamann B, Joy 
KI.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Data Analysis and Visualization, Department of Computer 
Science, University of California, Davis, One Shields Avenue, Davis, CA 95616, 
USA. sohail.shafii@gmail.com

Characterizing the interplay between the vortices and forces acting on a wind 
turbine's blades in a qualitative and quantitative way holds the potential for 
significantly improving large wind turbine design. This paper introduces an 
integrated pipeline for highly effective wind and force field analysis and 
visualization. We extract vortices induced by a turbine's rotation in a wind 
field, and characterize vortices in conjunction with numerically simulated 
forces on the blade surfaces as these vortices strike another turbine's blades 
downstream. The scientifically relevant issue to be studied is the relationship 
between the extracted, approximate locations on the blades where vortices strike 
the blades and the forces that exist in those locations. This integrated 
approach is used to detect and analyze turbulent flow that causes local impact 
on the wind turbine blade structure. The results that we present are based on 
analyzing the wind and force field data sets generated by numerical simulations, 
and allow domain scientists to relate vortex-blade interactions with power 
output loss in turbines and turbine life expectancy. Our methods have the 
potential to improve turbine design to save costs related to turbine operation 
and maintenance.

DOI: 10.1109/TVCG.2013.18
PMID: 23846101


510. Zentralbl Chir. 2015 Dec;140(6):600-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1328570. Epub
2013  Jul 11.

[Colorectal Carcinoma in Young Patients - Is Age a Prognostic Factor?].

[Article in German]

Schellerer V(1), Croner R(1), Langheinrich M(1), Hohenberger W(1), Merkel S(1).

Author information:
(1)Chirurgische Klinik, Friedrich-Alexander-Universität Erlangen, Erlangen, 
Deutschland.

INTRODUCTION: Concerning younger patients with colorectal carcinoma (CRC) 
controversies still exist regarding outcome. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate possible differences between patients suffering from CRC at a younger 
age (< 40 years) and at an age over 40 years.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Data of 51 younger patients (< 40 years) and 2122 older 
patients (≥ 40 years) were prospectively collected and retrospectively evaluated 
according to clinical parameters, treatment and prognosis. Patients with a CRC 
arising from familial adenomatous polyposis, ulcerative colitis or Crohn's 
disease have been excluded.
RESULTS: The younger patients presented significantly more often with mucinous 
adenocarcinomas (p = 0.033). There were no differences between the groups 
concerning gender, localisation, elective and emergency surgery, UICC (Union 
internationale contre le cancer) stages and residual tumour classification. 
Postoperative therapy - in adjuvant, therapeutic or palliative intent - was 
applied significantly more often in younger patients, especially in those with 
colon carcinoma (p = 0.001). After curative resection of colon carcinoma a 
significantly better observed (5 year rate 94 vs. 76 %; p = 0.024) and 
disease-free (88 vs. 69 %; p = 0.013) survival were found. This trend was 
similar in patients with rectal carcinoma (84 vs. 75 % and 72 vs. 65 %) without 
reaching the level of significance (p = 0.155 and 0.269). Taking into account 
differences in life expectancy, just minor differences were detected in relative 
survival (colon carcinoma, 5 year rate 94 vs. 89 %; rectal carcinoma, 84 % 
both).
CONCLUSIONS: The general assumption of a poorer prognosis in younger patients 
with CRC could not be confirmed. Younger patients have a poorer histological 
subtype of carcinoma. But this is compensated by the better overall condition, 
less comorbidities, faster postoperative recovery and an optimally organised 
post-operative (adjuvant, therapeutic or palliative) therapy. In summary, 
younger patients have a better observed survival but - considering differences 
in life expectancy - a similar relative survival.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1328570
PMID: 23846539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2013 Sep;28(3):251-66. doi:
10.1007/s10823-013-9202-9.

Border health in the shadow of the Hispanic paradox: issues in the 
conceptualization of health disparities in older Mexican Americans living in the 
Southwest.

Salinas JJ(1), Su D, Al Snih S.

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Health Science Center at Houston, Houston, TX, USA, 
jennifer.j.salinas@uth.tmc.edu.

Mexican Americans have demonstrated lower than what would be expected mortality 
rates and disease prevalence, given their overrepresentation among those living 
in poverty. However, Mexican Americans living along the US-Mexico border have 
been documented as carrying a higher burden of disease and disability that seems 
to contradict or at least challenge evidence in support of a "Hispanic Paradox". 
The purpose of this paper is to evaluate the concept of border health as it 
relates to the conceptualization and measurement of health outcomes in older 
Mexican Americans living in the Southwest United States. Data for this study 
comes from the Hispanic Established Populations for the Epidemiologic Studies of 
the Elderly (Hispanic EPESE) wave 1 and mortality files up to wave 5. Border 
residence was determined using La Paz Agreement county and distance from a port 
of entry classifications. Statistical analysis was conducted to assess border 
versus non-border differences in cause of death, disability, disease prevalence 
and premature mortality. Adjusted regression models were used to predict cause 
of death, disability and disease-free life expectancy and premature mortality 
(i.e. occurring before life expectancy). Interaction models between 
border/non-border and median income were also performed. Finally, distance from 
the US-Mexico border was used to determine the effect of distance to the 
US-Mexico border in border-residing participants. The findings from this study 
indicate that participants in the HEPESE were more likely to be alive at Wave 5 
if they resided in a border county, however more likely to transition into ADL 
disability status. These findings were not explained by behaviors, duration in 
the US or sociocultural characteristics of where they lived. Additionally, 
Hispanic EPESE subjects that lived in the border region were more likely to have 
died from old age and were less likely to be lost to follow up. Interaction 
models revealed significant effects for diabetes as a cause of death. Moreover, 
distance from a US-Mexico port of entry was significant for being alive at wave 
5 for border-residing participants. Relative to non-border residing 
participants, border residing Mexican Americans in the Hispanic EPESE did not 
carry a uniformly higher burden of disease, however had a significantly greater 
odds of 10 year survival. These findings bring up issues of measurement and the 
importance of geographic location when it comes to evaluating disease burden and 
mortality in Mexican Americans.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-013-9202-9
PMCID: PMC4176880
PMID: 23846801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Aug 6;110(32):12861-2. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1310925110. Epub 2013 Jul 11.

Air pollution and life expectancy in China and beyond.

Pope CA 3rd(1), Dockery DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Brigham Young University, Provo, UT 84602, USA. 
cap3@byu.edu

Comment on
    Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Aug 6;110(32):12936-41.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1310925110
PMCID: PMC3740834
PMID: 23847200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


513. Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Imaging. 2013 Aug;14(8):721-40. doi: 
10.1093/ehjci/jet123.

Expert consensus for multi-modality imaging evaluation of cardiovascular 
complications of radiotherapy in adults: a report from the European Association 
of Cardiovascular Imaging and the American Society of Echocardiography.
