cardiovascular disease. Diabetes is an independent risk factor for heart failure 
and is associated with a worse outcome in women than in men affected by heart 
failure. Despite the high prevalence of early asymptomatic ventricular 
dysfunction in diabetics observed in the DYDA and SHORTWAVE studies, female 
gender was neither a protective nor predisposing factor to ventricular 
dysfunction or heart failure. Among 1129 outpatients with heart failure, data 
from the Cardiovascular Epidemiologic Observatory of Trieste show a prevalence 
of diabetes of 39% in men and 28% in women. In this ongoing epidemiological 
study, a significantly better prognosis was observed in female than in male 
diabetics, whereas diabetic and non-diabetic women showed comparable mortality 
and hospital admission rates. These findings underscore the impact and 
effectiveness of strict follow-up and management in the high-risk female 
diabetic population.

PMID: 23678529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Afr J Med Med Sci. 2012 Dec;41 Suppl:111-6.

Survival of Listeria monocytogenes, and other food spoilage microbes in vacuum 
packaged West African soft cheese 'wara'.

Adetunji VO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Public Health and Preventive Medicine, University of 
Ibadan, Ibadan, Nigeria. vo.adetunji@mail.ui.edu.ng

'Wara' soft cheese is traditionally produced in Nigeria and has a poor microbial 
quality. This study assessed the survivability of Listeria monocytogenes and 
other food spoilage microbes (enterobacteriacea, molds and yeasts) in vacuum 
packaged soft cheese treated independently with Carica papaya (Vcpc), Terminalia 
cattapa (Vtcc) crude extracts, nisin (Vnc), and the combination of these three 
treatments (V+3) stored at 15 degrees C and 28 degrees C for a three week 
storage period. Vacuum packaging did not suppress Listeria monocytogenes, and 
there were no significant differences in the L. monocytogenes counts throughout 
the storage weeks (P > 0.05). The enterobacteriacea counts were suppressed to 
undetectable levels at 15 degrees C storage temperature by the third week of 
storage in all treatments except the Vnc and V+3. Molds and yeasts were 
undetectable in all treatments throughout the storage weeks. Significant 
differences occurred in the microbial count at the two storage temperatures and 
storage weeks (P < 0.05). It can therefore be concluded from this work that 
Vacuum packaging and addition of crude extracts (Carica papaya, Terminalia 
cattapa) in soft cheese storage can suppress enterobacteriacea, molds and 
yeasts. Food technologists developing industrialized 'wara should consider 
including these extracts and vacuum packaging in their production. Therefore, 
their use in extension of the shelf-life of soft cheese is recommended.

PMID: 23678645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2014 Sep;158(3):461-4.
doi:  10.5507/bp.2013.032. Epub 2013 May 3.

Omission of adjuvant radiation therapy in elderly patients with low risk breast 
cancer undergoing breast-conserving surgery--two center experience.

Vrana D(1), Gatek J, Lukesova L, Vazan T, Melichar B, Pospiskova M, Svach I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, Palacky University 
Olomouc, Czech Republic.

INTRODUCTION: Breast cancer is, now often diagnosed in patients older than 70 
years due to longer life expectancy. The usual treatment is mastectomy to 
obviate radiotherapy or breast-conserving surgery followed by radiotherapy. The 
aim of this study was to investigate the need for adjuvant radiotherapy in older 
patients and the consequences of omitting radiotherapy following conservative 
surgery.
METHODS: An extensive database search was made of patients who had been treated 
for breast cancer at the Department of Oncology, University Hospital Olomouc and 
the Atlas Hospital in Zlin (2004-2008). We identified 738 patients of whom 190 
patients (25.7%) were older than 70 years of age. These were followed up for 
progression-free and overall survival. The cause of death was checked for breast 
cancer relapse.
RESULTS: In total only 9 patients undergoing breast saving surgery were 
ultimately identified. No patient had confirmed local recurrence during the 
follow up period: Two patients have died due to distant metastasis without local 
relapse and one patient has died for reasons other than breast cancer.
CONCLUSION: Omitting radiotherapy after breast saving surgery provides an 
opportunity for women to undergo breast saving surgery and avoid 7 weeks of 
radiotherapy. This could significantly improve patient quality of life. In our 
of many years experience and from published randomized data, this procedure is 
safe for a select group of patients 70 years of age and older.

DOI: 10.5507/bp.2013.032
PMID: 23681308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Rev Bras Epidemiol. 2013 Mar;16(1):87-99.

[Male mortality in three Brazilian state capitals, 1979-2007].

[Article in Portuguese]

Luizaga CT(1), Gotlieb SL.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Saúde Pública da Universidade de São Paulo, Departamento de 
Epidemiologia, Av. Dr. Arnaldo 715, São Paulo, SP, Brazil. carolinaterra@usp.br

INTRODUCTION: In Brazil, there is a higher male mortality in almost all ages and 
causes. The objective is to estimate and describe the trend in male mortality, 
between 1979/2007, in three State Capitals (São Paulo, Rio de Janeiro and Porto 
Alegre).
METHODS: The study populations refer to the residents in the three cities, in 
1979/1981, 1990/1992, 1999/2001 and 2005/2007, and their deaths. The data source 
was Health Information System of the Brazilian Ministry of Health. Overall 
(crude/standardized) and specific mortality coefficients were calculated.
RESULTS: Up to 24 years, men predominate in the population; after, it has been 
observed higher female participation and gender ratios ever lower. This fact is 
associated with high male mortality and the intense involvement of young men 
with external causes. Throughout the series, these causes were responsible for 
large risk estimates of male death. In 2005/2007, this group was the leading 
cause of death in men until the age 40-44 years. In the following age groups, 
deaths by circulatory system diseases are the main cause.
CONCLUSION: These capitals show features of a developing city, with reduced 
fertility, increased longevity and consequent trend to an aging population. 
Estimates of the men high risk of dying make clear their vulnerability. The 
intensity with these events occur demand actions that will reduce the mortality 
rates of preventable diseases and the men's risky behaviors. It is necessary 
that men adopt healthier lifestyles habits, thus increasing life expectancy and 
reducing the gender differences in mortalities.

PMID: 23681326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


68. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2013 Jun 5;105(11):754-5. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djt138. Epub 
2013 May 16.

Good and bad news about latest outcomes for smoking.

Fillon M.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djt138
PMID: 23682131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2014 Jan;69(1):63-72. doi:
10.1093/gerona/glt049.  Epub 2013 May 16.

Obesity and life expectancy among long-lived Black adults.

Singh PN(1), Clark RW, Herring P, Sabaté J, Shavlik D, Fraser GE.

Author information:
(1)DrPH, Center for Health Research, Nichol Hall Room 1710, School of Public 
Health, Loma Linda, CA 92350. psingh@llu.edu.

BACKGROUND: In samples of African Americans and the elderly adults, obesity is 
often not found to be a risk factor for mortality. These data contradict the 
evidence linking obesity to chronic disease in these groups. Our objective was 
to determine whether obesity remains a risk factor for mortality among 
long-lived black adults.
METHODS: The Adventist Health Study 2 is a large prospective cohort study of 
Seventh-day Adventist church members who are encouraged by faith-based 
principles to avoid tobacco, alcohol, and meat consumption. We conducted an 
attained age survival analysis of 22,884 U.S. blacks of the cohort-half of whom 
attained an age of 58-108 years during the follow-up (adult life expectancy of 
84 years in men, 89 years in women).
RESULTS: Women in the highest body mass index quintile (>33.8) experienced a 
significant 61% increase (hazard ratio [95% CI] = 1.62 [1.23, 2.11] relative to 
the middle quintile) in mortality risk and a 6.2-year (95% CI = 2.8-10.2 years) 
decrease in life expectancy. Men in the highest body mass index quintile (>30.8) 
experienced a significant 87% increase (hazard ratio [95% CI] = 1.87 [1.28, 
2.73] relative to the middle quintile) in mortality risk and 5.9-year (95% CI = 
2.1- 9.5 years) decrease in life expectancy. Obesity (>30) was a significant 
risk factor relative to normal weight (18.5-24.9) in never-smokers. 
Instantaneous hazards indicated excess risk from obesity was evident through at 
least age 85 years. The nonobese tended to follow plant-based diets and exercise 
vigorously.
CONCLUSIONS: Avoiding obesity promotes gains in life expectancy through at least 
the eighth decade of life in black adults. Evidence for weight control through 
plant-based diets and active living was found in long-lived nonobese blacks.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glt049
PMCID: PMC3859363
PMID: 23682156 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Rev Prat. 2013 Apr;63(4):469-71, 473, 475 passim.

[Screening for prostate cancer: why, how?].

[Article in French]

Soulié M(1), Salomon L.

Author information:
(1)Comité de cancérologie de l'Association française d'urologie (AFU), Inserm, 
UMR1027, université de Toulouse-III, CHU de Toulouse, département 
d'urologie-andrologie et transplantation rénale, 31059 Toulouse, France. 
soulie.m@chu-toulouse.fr

Screening for prostate cancer has been the subject of a new controversy in 2012, 
because of the updated and contradictory results of the two large randomized 
trials of prostate cancer and while the United States Preventive Services Task 
Force (USPSTF) recommended not use PSA in screening, because of the risk of 
overdiagnosis and overtreatment especially. However, this new thinking about PSA 
and screening may mislead the public and create a health risk. Media pressure 
must be an opportunity to remind the individual screening recommendations, but 
also to encourage innovation for better detection and better assess prostate 
cancer stage. New biomarkers and MRI are promising to improve screening with the 
PSA and DRE. The assessment of the value of PSA around 50 years is a predictor 
of the risk of prostate cancer and rhythm monitoring depends on the initial 
value and the velocity of PSA. The challenge of the coming years will be to 
identify patients to be treated regarding age, life expectancy and tumor 
aggressiveness and to identify clearly those who can benefit of active 
surveillance.

PMID: 23682467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


71. Laterality. 2014;19(2):178-200. doi: 10.1080/1357650X.2013.789883. Epub 2013
May  20.

Schizotypy and hemispheric asymmetry: Results from two Chapman scales, the 
O-LIFE questionnaire, and two laterality measures.

Schofield K(1), Mohr C.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Experimental Psychology , University of Bristol , UK.

Schizotypy is a multidimensional personality construct representing the 
extension of psychosis-like traits into the general population. Schizotypy has 
been associated with attenuated expressions of many of the same 
neuropsychological abnormalities as schizophrenia, including atypical pattern of 
functional hemispheric asymmetry. Unfortunately the previous literature on links 
between schizotypy and hemispheric asymmetry is inconsistent, with some research 
indicating that elevated schizotypy is associated with relative right over left 
hemisphere shifts, left over right hemisphere shifts, bilateral impairments, or 
with no hemispheric differences at all. This inconsistency may result from 
different methodologies, scales, and/or sex proportions between studies. In a 
within-participant design we tested for the four possible links between 
laterality and schizotypy by comparing the relationship between two common 
self-report measures of multidimensional schizotypy (the O-LIFE questionnaire, 
and two Chapman scales, magical ideation and physical anhedonia) and performance 
in two computerised lateralised hemifield paradigms (lexical decision, chimeric 
face processing) in 80 men and 79 women. Results for the two scales and two 
tasks did not unequivocally support any of the four possible links. We discuss 
the possibilities that a link between schizotypy and laterality (1) exists but 
is subtle, probably fluctuating, unable to be assessed by traditional 
methodologies used here; (2) does not exist, or (3) is indirect, mediated by 
other factors (e.g., stress-responsiveness, handedness, drug use) whose 
influences need further exploration.

DOI: 10.1080/1357650X.2013.789883
PMID: 23682953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


72. Acta Neurol Scand. 2014 Jan;129(1):13-20. doi: 10.1111/ane.12139. Epub 2013
May  18.

Costs and quality of life in multiple sclerosis patients with spasticity.

Svensson J(1), Borg S, Nilsson P.

Author information:
(1)The Swedish Institute for Health Economics (IHE), Lund, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The resource use and health-related quality of life (HRQoL) of 
patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) spasticity are not well known. The purpose 
of this study was to obtain estimates of resource utilization, costs, and HRQoL, 
for patients with different levels of MS spasticity in southern Sweden.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Cross-sectional data on spasticity severity (using a 
Numerical Rating Scale, NRS), resource use and HRQoL (using EQ-5D) were 
collected using a patient questionnaire and chart review. Patients were 
recruited through a clinic in southern Sweden. The study reviews direct medical, 
direct non-medical and indirect costs.
RESULTS: Total costs were estimated to €114,293 per patient and year. Direct 
medical costs (€7898) accounted for 7% of total costs. Direct non-medical costs 
(€68,509) accounted for 60% of total costs. Total costs increased with severity 
of spasticity: for patients with severe spasticity, the total cost was 2.4 times 
greater than those for patients with mild spasticity. HRQoL decreased as 
spasticity increases.
CONCLUSION: The results of this study show that MS spasticity is associated with 
a substantial burden on society in terms of costs and HRQoL.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ane.12139
PMID: 23683163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


73. Rural Remote Health. 2013 Apr-Jun;13(2):2284. Epub 2013 May 18.

Is there a rural gradient in the diagnosis of aortic stenosis? An analysis of a 
remote Scottish cohort.

Maycock MI(1), Farman C, Mort A, Turpie D, Leslie SJ.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Unit, Raigmore Hospital, Inverness, Scotland, UK. 
matthew.maycock.05@aberdeen.ac.uk.

INTRODUCTION: Calcific aortic stenosis is the most common cardiac valve lesion 
and is becoming increasingly prevalent as life expectancy rises. There is 
evidence that patients in remote and rural areas with certain diseases have 
worse outcomes and present to specialist services later than their urban 
counterparts. It is not known whether patients with aortic stenosis follow a 
similar pattern. The aim of this study was to investigate whether increasing 
rurality was associated with later presentation to healthcare services at a more 
advanced stage of aortic stenosis.
METHODS: This was a retrospective cohort study. Using ICD-10 discharge codes and 
local databases, 605 patients with aortic stenosis who presented between 31 
November 1999 and 1 December 2008 were identified. Aortic stenosis was defined 
as a pressure gradient across the aortic valve of 25 mmHg or more. Patients with 
prior aortic valve replacement were excluded. Clinical notes were reviewed for 
all patients. Gender, age and pressure gradient across the aortic valve at 
presentation and patient GP-practice location were recorded. Patients were then 
assigned a Clinical Peripherality Index score based on the postcode of their 
GP's practice to define rurality. Patient data were compared across the six 
defined levels of clinical peripherality by ANOVA.
RESULTS: Mean patient age was 73 ± 13 years, and 336 (54%) were male. The peak 
gradient across the valve was 41.1 ± 26.7 mmHg. There was no association between 
the level of clinical peripherality and the stage of aortic stenosis at 
presentation, age or gender (all p >0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: There was no urban-rural gradient in the severity of aortic 
stenosis at presentation in this remote Scottish cohort. This suggests that 
patients with this condition in remote areas do not present later in their 
disease trajectory.

PMID: 23683323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


74. J Vasc Surg. 2013 Aug;58(2):324-32. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.01.051. Epub 2013
 May 14.

Ten-year results of endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair from a large 
multicenter registry.

Chang RW(1), Goodney P, Tucker LY, Okuhn S, Hua H, Rhoades A, Sivamurthy N, Hill 
B.

Author information:
(1)Permanente Medical Group, South San Francisco, CA, USA. robert.w.chang@kp.org

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2013 Aug;58(2):331-2.

OBJECTIVE: To assess outcomes after endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm 
repair (EVAR) in an integrated health care system.
METHODS: Between 2000 and 2010, 1736 patients underwent EVAR at 17 centers. 
Demographic data, comorbidities, and outcomes of interest were collected. EVAR 
in patients presenting with ruptured or symptomatic aneurysms was categorized as 
urgent; otherwise, it was considered elective. Primary outcomes were mortality 
and aneurysm-related mortality (ARM). Secondary outcomes were change in aneurysm 
sac size, endoleak status, major adverse events, and reintervention.
RESULTS: Overall, the median age was 76 years (interquartile range, 70-81 
years), 86% were male, and 82% were Caucasian. Most cases (93.8%) were elective, 
but urgent use of EVAR increased from 4% in the first 5 years to 7.3% in the 
last 5 years of the study period. Mean aneurysm size was 5.8 cm. Patients were 
followed for an average of 3 years (range, 1-11 years); 8% were lost to 
follow-up. Intraoperatively, 4.5% of patients required adjunctive maneuvers for 
endoleak, fixation, or flow-limiting issues. The 30-day mortality rate was 1.2%, 
and the perioperative morbidity rate was 6.6%. Intraoperative type I and II 
endoleaks were uncommon (2.3% and 9.3%, respectively). Life-table analysis at 5 
years demonstrated excellent overall survival (66%) and freedom from ARM (97%). 
Postoperative endoleak was seen in 30% of patients and was associated with an 
increase in sac size over time. Finally, the total reintervention rate was 15%, 
including 91 instances (5%) of revisional EVAR. The overall major adverse event 
rate was 7.9% and decreased significantly from 12.3% in the first 5 years to 
5.6% in the second 5 years of the study period (P < .001). Overall ARM was worse 
in patients with postoperative endoleak (4.1% vs 1.8%; P < .01) or in those who 
underwent reintervention (7.6% vs 1.6%; P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Results from a contemporary EVAR registry in an integrated health 
care system demonstrate favorable perioperative outcomes and excellent clinical 
efficacy. However, postoperative endoleak and the need for reintervention 
continue to be challenging problems for patients after EVAR.

Copyright © 2013 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.01.051
PMCID: PMC3930460
PMID: 23683376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author conflict of interest: none.


75. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2013 Sep;46(3):315-9. doi:
10.1016/j.ejvs.2013.04.027.  Epub 2013 May 15.

Mid-term results of endovascular aortic aneurysm repair in the young.

Altaf N(1), Abisi S, Yong Y, Saunders JH, Braithwaite BD, MacSweeney ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, Queen's Medical Centre, 
Nottingham, United Kingdom. nishath.altaf@nottingham.ac.uk

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2013 Sep;46(3):320.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the mid-term outcome and secondary intervention rate 
following elective open and endovascular aortic aneurysm repair (EVAR) in 
patients aged 65 years and younger.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of patients aged 65 years and younger who had 
elective abdominal aortic aneurysm repair (AAA) between 1994 and 2012.
RESULTS: One hundred and sixty-five patients under the age of 65 years (mean 
age: 61 years ± 4; 8 women) had elective abdominal aneurysm repair (97 EVAR and 
68 open). The overall 30-day mortality rate was 3.7% (2.1% EVAR and 5.9% open). 
Forty per cent of patients had died at a median follow up of 77 months 
(interquartile range, 36-140). Most deaths were not related to aneurysm. There 
was no difference in the long-term mortality between the EVAR and open groups 
(hazard ratio [HR] = 1.22; 95% confidence interval [CI] 0.75-1.98, p = .43), but 
there was a trend of better outcomes with the use of commercially made 
endografts over open repair (HR = 2.9; 95% CI 0.9-10.0, p = .08) and custom-made 
endografts (HR = 3.1, 95% CI 0.9-10.3; p = .07). Eleven per cent of patients who 
had EVAR required a further procedure compared with 13% who had open repair. All 
but one of the re-interventions in the EVAR group was performed on patients who 
had custom-made endografts.
CONCLUSIONS: Young patients with AAA have significant comorbidities and do not 
necessarily have long lifespans. In the less fit younger patients with AAA, the 
results with EVAR are comparable with fit patients who had open AAA repair. The 
management of fitter young patients with AAA remains controversial, but 
improving results with EVAR over time may increase the role of EVAR in this 
group.

Copyright © 2013 European Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2013.04.027
PMID: 23683396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. Lancet. 2013 May 18;381(9879):1772-82. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60762-X.

Reproductive health priorities: evidence from a resource tracking analysis of 
official development assistance in 2009 and 2010.

Hsu J(1), Berman P, Mills A.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Systems Analysis, Department of Global Health and 
Development, London School of Hygiene & Tropical Medicine, London, UK. 
justine.hsu@lshtm.ac.uk

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 May 18;381(9879):1701-2.

BACKGROUND: Information is scarce about the extent to which official development 
assistance (ODA) is spent on reproductive health to provide childbirth care; 
support family planning; address sexual health; and prevent, treat, and care for 
sexually transmitted infections, including HIV. We analysed flows of ODA to 
reproductive health for 2009 and 2010, assessed their distribution by donor type 
and purpose, and investigated the extent to which disbursements respond to need. 
We aimed to provide global estimates of aid to reproductive health, to assess 
the allocation of resources across reproductive health activities, and to 
encourage donor accountability in targeting aid flows to those most in need.
METHODS: We applied a standard definition of reproductive health across all 
donors, including a portion of disease-specific activities and health systems 
development. We analysed disbursements to reproductive health by donor type and 
purpose (eg, family planning). We also reported on an indicator to monitor donor 
disbursements: ODA to reproductive health per woman aged 15-49 years. We 
analysed the extent to which funding is targeted to countries most in need, 
proxied by female life expectancy at birth and prevalence of HIV infection in 
adults.
FINDINGS: Donor disbursements to reproductive health activities in all countries 
amounted to US$5579 million in 2009 and US$5637 million in 2010-an increase of 
1.0%. ODA for such activities in the 74 Countdown priority countries increased 
more rapidly at 5.3%. More than half of the funding was directed towards 
prevention, treatment, and care of HIV infection for women of reproductive age 
(15-49 years of age). On average, ODA to general reproductive health activities 
amounted to 15.9% and ODA to family planning 7.2%. Aid to reproductive health 
was heavily dependent on the USA, the Global Fund, the UK, the United Nations 
Population Fund, and the World Bank.
INTERPRETATION: Donors are prioritising reproductive health, and the slight 
increase in funding in 2009-10 is welcome, especially in the present economic 
climate. The large share of such funding for activities related to HIV infection 
in women of reproductive age affects the amount of ODA received by priority 
countries. It should thus be distinguished from resources directed to other 
reproductive health activities, such as family planning, which has been the 
focus of recent worldwide advocacy efforts. Tracking of donor aid to 
reproductive health should continue to allow investigation of the allocation of 
resources across reproductive health activities, and to encourage donor 
accountability in targeting aid flows to those most in need.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, World Bank, and the Governments of 
Australia, Canada, Norway, Sweden, and the UK.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)60762-X
PMID: 23683644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Ann Epidemiol. 2013 Jun;23(6):355-60. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2013.03.014.

Do the psychosocial risks associated with television viewing increase mortality? 
Evidence from the 2008 General Social Survey-National Death Index dataset.

Muennig P(1), Rosen Z, Johnson G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, Mailman School of Public Health, 
Columbia University, New York, NY 10032, USA. Pm124@columbia.edu

BACKGROUND: Television viewing is associated with an increased risk of 
mortality, which could be caused by a sedentary lifestyle, the content of 
television programming (e.g., cigarette product placement or stress-inducing 
content), or both.
METHODS: We examined the relationship between self-reported hours of television 
viewing and mortality risk over 30 years in a representative sample of the 
American adult population using the 2008 General Social Survey-National Death 
Index dataset. We also explored the intervening variable effect of various 
emotional states (e.g., happiness) and beliefs (e.g., trust in government) of 
the relationship between television viewing and mortality.
RESULTS: We find that, for each additional hour of viewing, mortality risks 
increased 4%. Given the mean duration of television viewing in our sample, this 
amounted to about 1.2 years of life expectancy in the United States. This 
association was tempered by a number of potential psychosocial mediators, 
including self-reported measures of happiness, social capital, or confidence in 
institutions. Although none of these were clinically significant, the combined 
mediation power was statistically significant (P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Television viewing among healthy adults is correlated with 
premature mortality in a nationally representative sample of U.S. adults, and 
this association may be partially mediated by programming content related to 
beliefs or affective states. However, this mediation effect is the result of 
many small changes in psychosocial states rather than large effects from a few 
factors.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2013.03.014
PMCID: PMC3662979
PMID: 23683712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Bone. 2013 Sep;56(1):23-9. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2013.05.006. Epub 2013 May 16.

Excess mortality attributable to hip-fracture: a relative survival analysis.

Frost SA(1), Nguyen ND, Center JR, Eisman JA, Nguyen TV.

Author information:
(1)Osteoporosis and Bone Biology Program, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, 
St Vincent's Hospital, Australia. s.frost@uws.edu.au

INTRODUCTION: Individuals with hip fracture are at substantially increased risk 
of mortality. The aim of this study was to estimate the excess mortality 
attributable to hip fracture in elderly men and women.
METHODS: The Dubbo Osteoporosis Epidemiology Study was designed as a prospective 
epidemiologic investigation, in which more than 2000 men and women aged 60+ as 
of 1989 had been followed for 21 years. During the follow-up period, the 
incidence of atraumatic hip fractures was ascertained by X-ray reports, and 
mortality was ascertained by the New South Wales Birth, Death and Marriage 
Registry. Relative survival ratios were estimated by taking into account the 
age-and-sex specific expected survival in the general Australian population from 
1989 to 2010.
RESULTS: During the follow-up period 151 women and 55 men sustained a hip 
fracture. Death occurred in 86 (57%) women and 36 (66%) men. In women, the 
cumulative relative survival post hip-fracture at 1, 5 and 10 years was 0.83 
(95% confidence interval (CI) 0.76-0.89), 0.59 (95% CI 0.48-0.68), and 0.31 (95% 
CI 0.20-0.43), respectively; in men, the corresponding estimates of relative 
survival were: 0.63 (95% CI 0.48-0.75), 0.48 (95% CI 0.32-0.63), and 0.36 (95% 
CI 0.18-0.56). On average post hip-fracture women died 4 years earlier (median: 
4.1, inter-quartile range (IQR) 1.7-7.8) and men died 5 years earlier (median = 
4.8, IQR 2.4-7.0) than expected. For every six women and for every three men 
with hip fracture one extra death occurred above that expected in the background 
population.
CONCLUSION: Hip fracture is associated with reduced life expectancy, with men 
having a greater reduction than women, even after accounting for time-related 
changes in background mortality in the population. These data underscore that 
hip fracture is an independent clinical risk factor for mortality.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2013.05.006
PMID: 23684802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Gynecol Oncol. 2013 Sep;130(3):474-82. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2013.05.010. Epub
 2013 May 15.

Bone metastases in endometrial cancer: report on 19 patients and review of the 
medical literature.

Uccella S(1), Morris JM, Bakkum-Gamez JN, Keeney GL, Podratz KC, Mariani A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN 55905, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Because few cases of bone metastases of endometrial cancer have been 
reported, and information is scarce on their incidence, treatment, prognosis, 
and outcomes, we sought to compile a series of bone metastases of endometrial 
cancer and to systematically review the medical literature.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed medical records of patients who had osseous 
metastases of endometrial cancer treated initially at Mayo Clinic (1984-2001), 
and of all patients who were referred for treatment of primary bone metastases 
after primary treatment for endometrial cancer elsewhere.
RESULTS: Of 1632 patients with endometrial cancer, 13 (0.8%) had primary bone 
dissemination and 6 (0.4%) were referred after initial treatment. Three (15.8%) 
of these 19 had bone metastases at presentation; in the rest, median time to 
recurrence was 19.5 months (range, 3-114). The most common sites were the spine 
and hip. Median survival after metastasis was 12 months (range, 2-267). Median 
survival after radiotherapy alone vs. multimodal treatment was 20 months (range, 
12-119) vs. 33 months (range, 9-267), respectively (P > .99). Of the 87 cases we 
reviewed from the literature, all but 1 (98.9%) had diagnoses based on symptoms. 
Multiple bone involvement and extraosseous dissemination were associated with 
poor prognosis. Type II endometrial cancer (i.e., serous or clear-cell 
histology) was associated with shorter life expectancy after diagnosis of bone 
metastasis compared to Type I tumors.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of primary bone metastases of endometrial cancer is < 
1%. Single bone metastases without extraosseous spread indicate less aggressive 
disease. Optimal treatment is unclear.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2013.05.010
PMCID: PMC3917308
PMID: 23685013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Crit Care Med. 2013 Aug;41(8):1878-83. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e31828a2aa1.

Body mass index is associated with hospital mortality in critically ill 
patients: an observational cohort study.

Pickkers P(1), de Keizer N, Dusseljee J, Weerheijm D, van der Hoeven JG, Peek N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Intensive Care, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands. p.pickkers@ic.umcn.nl

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2014 Jan;42(1):e79.
    Crit Care Med. 2014 Jan;42(1):e80.
    Crit Care Med. 2014 Jan;42(1):e80-1.
    Crit Care Med. 2014 Jan;42(1):e81-2.
    Crit Care Med. 2014 Mar;42(3):e252.
    Crit Care Med. 2014 Mar;42(3):e253.
    Crit Care Med. 2014 Mar;42(3):e253-4.
    Crit Care Med. 2014 Mar;42(3):e254-5.

OBJECTIVE: Obesity is associated with a variety of diseases, which results in a 
decreased overall life expectancy. Nevertheless, some studies suggest that being 
overweight may reduce hospital mortality of certain patient groups, referred to 
as obesity paradox. Conflicting results for critically ill patients are 
reported. Therefore, we wished to investigate the association of body mass index 
and hospital mortality in critically ill patients.
DESIGN: Observational cohort study in Dutch critically ill patients.
SETTING: A dataset from the Dutch National Intensive Care Evaluation registry 
that includes patients admitted to Dutch ICUs was used.
PATIENTS: One hundred fifty-four thousand three hundred and eight ICU patients 
of teaching and nonteaching units in urban and nonurban hospitals.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: We used logistic regression analysis, correcting 
for case mix (Simplified Acute Physiology Score II, age, gender, admission type, 
neoplasm, AIDS, hematologic malignancy, immunologic insufficiency, mechanical 
ventilation, and calendar year), to determine the relationship between body mass 
index and hospital mortality. Body mass index was included in the model as a 
continuous nonlinear covariate in a restricted regression spline transformation. 
To facilitate interpretation, adjusted odds ratios were calculated for the World 
Health Organization-based body mass index classes. Body mass index was found to 
be significantly associated with hospital mortality, with risks quickly 
increasing for underweight patients (body mass index < 18.5 kg/m). Obese and 
seriously obese patients, with a body mass index of 30-39.9 kg/m, had the lowest 
risk of death with an adjusted odds ratio of 0.86 (0.83-0.90).
CONCLUSIONS: This large observational database shows an inverse association 
between obesity and hospital mortality in critically ill patients that could not 
be explained by a variety of known confounders.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0b013e31828a2aa1
PMID: 23685638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Support Care Cancer. 2013 Oct;21(10):2671-8. doi: 10.1007/s00520-013-1840-5. 
Epub 2013 May 18.

Best supportive care in patients with brain metastases and adverse prognostic 
factors: development of improved decision aids.

Nieder C(1), Norum J, Dalhaug A, Aandahl G, Engljähringer K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology and Palliative Medicine, Nordland Hospital, 8092, 
Bodø, Norway, carsten.nieder@nlsh.no.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to develop a survival prediction model that might aid 
decision making when choosing between best supportive care (BSC) and brain 
radiotherapy (RT) for patients with brain metastases and limited survival 
expectation.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 124 patients treated with BSC, whole brain 
radiotherapy (WBRT), or radiosurgery was conducted. All patients had adverse 
prognostic features defined as 0-1.5 points according to the diagnosis-specific 
graded prognostic assessment score (DS-GPA) or GPA if primary tumor type was not 
among those represented in DS-GPA. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were compared 
between patients treated with BSC or RT in different scenarios, reflecting more 
or less rigorous definitions of poor prognosis. If survival was 
indistinguishable and this result could be confirmed in multivariate analysis, 
BSC was considered appropriate.
RESULTS: Irrespective of point sum examined, DS-GPA by itself was not a 
satisfactory selection parameter. However, we defined a subgroup of 63 patients 
(51 %) with short survival irrespective of management approach (only 5 % of 
irradiated patients survived beyond 6 months; they had newly diagnosed, 
treatment-naïve lung cancer), i.e., patients in whom foregoing RT was unlikely 
to compromise survival. These were patients with 0-1.5 points and aged ≥ 75 
years, had Karnofsky performance status ≤ 50, or had uncontrolled primary tumor 
with extracranial metastases to at least two organs.
CONCLUSIONS: BSC is a reasonable choice in patients with limited life 
expectancy. After successful external validation of the selection criteria 
developed in this analysis, identification of patients who are unlikely to 
benefit from WBRT might be improved.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-013-1840-5
PMID: 23686380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Demography. 2013 Oct;50(5):1593-613. doi: 10.1007/s13524-013-0218-0.

Living arrangements and the elderly: an analysis of old-age mortality by 
household structure in Casalguidi, 1819-1859.

Manfredini M(1), Breschi M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Parma, Parco Area delle Scienze, 
43100, Parma, Italy, matteo.manfredini@unipr.it.

The elevated levels of protection, assistance, and care enjoyed by the elderly 
living in complex households has long been a key assumption of many family 
system theories. However, although this hypothesis has been demonstrated for 
contemporary contexts, quantitative evidence for past populations is 
particularly scarce, if not nonexistent. This article investigates the 
relationship between old-age mortality and living arrangements in a 
mid-nineteenth century Tuscan population, where the joint family system of 
sharecroppers coexisted alongside the nuclear system of day laborers. Our 
findings demonstrate that within complex households, the complexity of 
relationships, gender inequalities, and possible competition for care and 
resources among the most vulnerable household members-namely, the elderly and 
the young-weakens the assumption that the elderly benefitted from lower rates of 
old-age mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-013-0218-0
PMID: 23686383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. Theor Med Bioeth. 2013 Jun;34(3):207-26. doi: 10.1007/s11017-013-9257-1.

Lifespan extension and the doctrine of double effect.

Capitaine L(1), Devolder K, Pennings G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy and Moral Sciences, Ghent University, Blandijnberg 
2, 9000 Ghent, Belgium. laura.capitaine@ugent.be

Recent developments in biogerontology--the study of the biology of 
ageing--suggest that it may eventually be possible to intervene in the human 
ageing process. This, in turn, offers the prospect of significantly postponing 
the onset of age-related diseases. The biogerontological project, however, has 
met with strong resistance, especially by deontologists. They consider the act 
of intervening in the ageing process impermissible on the grounds that it would 
(most probably) bring about an extended maximum lifespan--a state of affairs 
that they deem intrinsically bad. In a bid to convince their deontological 
opponents of the permissibility of this act, proponents of biogerontology invoke 
an argument which is grounded in the doctrine of double effect. Surprisingly, 
their argument, which we refer to as the 'double effect argument', has gone 
unnoticed. This article exposes and critically evaluates this 'double effect 
argument'. To this end, we first review a series of excerpts from the ethical 
debate on biogerontology in order to substantiate the presence of double effect 
reasoning. Next, we attempt to determine the role that the 'double effect 
argument' is meant to fulfil within this debate. Finally, we assess whether the 
act of intervening in ageing actually can be justified using double effect 
reasoning.

DOI: 10.1007/s11017-013-9257-1
PMID: 23686728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Am J Med Genet A. 2013 Jul;161A(7):1555-60. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35929. Epub
2013  May 17.

Mortality of congenital osteochondrodysplasias: a nationwide registry-based 
study.

Morales-Piga A(1), Alonso-Ferreira V, Villaverde-Hueso A, Posada de la Paz M, 
López-Abente G.

Author information:
(1)Rare Disease Research Institute (Instituto de Investigación de Enfermedades 
Raras - IIER), Carlos III Institute of Health (Instituto de Salud Carlos III - 
ISCIII), Madrid, Spain.

Osteochondrodysplasias are a heterogeneous group of more than 200 entities, 
characterized by abnormalities of cartilage, bone growth, and skeletal 
development. The aim of this study was to assess temporal and spatial changes in 
overall mortality due to these disorders in Spain, using data from a nationwide 
registry. Annual deaths showing osteochondrodysplasias as the underlying cause 
of death were selected using the International Classification of Diseases-9th 
revision (ICD-9) codes for the period 1981 through 1998, and ICD-10 codes for 
the period 1999 through 2008. Age-adjusted mortality rates were calculated by 
sex, and geographic analysis was performed by municipality. A total of 679 
deaths were recorded (53% men). Age-adjusted mortality rates went from 0.09 
(0.06, 0.12) per 100,000 population in 1981 to 0.05 (0.03, 0.08) per 100,000 
population in 2008. A changing trend in the age-standardized mortality rate was 
in evidence, with an annual increase of 2.4% (-0.4, 5.2) from 1981 to 1994, and 
an annual decrease of -7.3% (-10.9, -3.5) from 1995 onwards. Geographic analysis 
showed some places situated in the west and south of Spain with greater risk of 
mortality. There is a need to identify risk factors and to increase overall 
knowledge about the life expectancy and epidemiology of osteochondrodysplasias.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.35929
PMID: 23687076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Poult Sci. 2013 Jun;92(6):1604-12. doi: 10.3382/ps.2012-02582.

Establishment of an immortal chicken embryo liver-derived cell line.

Lee J(1), Foster DN, Bottje WG, Jang HM, Chandra YG, Gentles LE, Kong BW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Poultry Science, University of Arkansas, Fayetteville, 72701, 
USA.

A continuously growing immortal cell substrate can be used for virus 
propagation, diagnostic purposes, and vaccine production. The aim of this study 
was to develop an immortal chicken cell line for efficient propagation of avian 
infectious viruses. From the various chicken embryo cells that were tested for 
life span extension, an immortalized chicken embryo liver (CEL) cell line, named 
CEL-im, was derived spontaneously without either oncogenic viruses or 
carcinogenic chemical treatment. Currently, CEL-im cells are growing 0.8 to 1.1 
population doublings per day and have reached 120 passages. The CEL-im cell line 
is permissive for poultry infectious viruses, including avian metapneumovirus 
(AMPV), Marek's disease virus serotype 1 (MDV-1), and infectious 
laryngotracheitis virus. The CEL-im cells produced high AMPV titer (>10(5) 
pfu/mL), whereas very low titers (~10 pfu/mL) for MDV-1 and infectious 
laryngotracheitis virus were produced. To identify genetic alterations in the 
immortal CEL-im cell line, telomerase activity and mRNA expression for major 
cell cycle regulatory genes were determined during the immortalizing process. 
The CEL-im cell line has negative telomerase activity, and when compared with 
the primary passage 2 CEL cell counterpart, mRNA expression of tumor suppressor 
protein p53, mouse double minute 2 (Mdm2), cyclin dependent kinase (CDK) 
inhibitor p21 (p21(WAF)), and CDK inhibitor p16 (p16(INK4)) were downregulated 
in the CEL-im cell line, whereas retinoblastoma (Rb), transcription factor E2F, 
member 1 (E2F-1), and alternative reading frame of p16(INK4) (ARF) were 
upregulated. These results are similar to genetic alterations found previously 
in immortal chicken embryo fibroblast (CEF) cell lines that showed efficient 
propagation of MDV-1. Therefore, this newly established CEL-im cell line can 
serve as an alternative cell substrate for the propagation of poultry viruses, 
such as AMPV.

DOI: 10.3382/ps.2012-02582
PMID: 23687157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Kidney Blood Press Res. 2013;37(2-3):168-80. doi: 10.1159/000350142. Epub
2013  May 6.

To treat or not to treat? Cost-effectiveness of ace inhibitors in non-diabetic 
advanced renal disease - a Dutch perspective.

Adarkwah CC(1), Gandjour A, Akkerman M, Evers S.

Author information:
(1)CAPHRI School for Public Health and Primary Care, Department of Health 
Services Research, Maastricht University, 6229 GT Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
c.adarkwah@maastrichtuniversity.nl

BACKGROUND: Treating non-diabetic proteinuric patients with advanced renal 
disease with an angiotensin-converting enzyme (ACE) inhibitor is still subject 
to discussion. This study aims to determine the cost-effectiveness of ACE 
inhibitor therapy in this patient population in the Netherlands.
METHODS: We compared two strategies: first, treating patients with advanced 
renal disease with an ACE inhibitor and no-treatment. A lifetime Markov decision 
model was developed simulating the progression of renal disease and using 
published data on costs and health outcomes. A health care perspective was 
adopted.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, treatment with ACE inhibitors leads to 
higher benefits and lower costs and dominates the no-treatment strategy. 
Sensitivity analysis shows that the probability of savings is 83%.
CONCLUSION: ACE inhibitor treatment for non-diabetic patients with advanced 
renal disease in the Netherlands is highly cost-effective and should therefore 
be considered.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000350142
PMID: 23689440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Contrib Nephrol. 2013;181:22-30. doi: 10.1159/000348638. Epub 2013 May 8.

Changing spectrum of biopsy-proven primary glomerular diseases over the past 15 
years: a single-center study in China.

Pan X(1), Xu J, Ren H, Zhang W, Xu Y, Shen P, Li X, Wang W, Chen X, Wu P, Feng 
X, Hao C, Chen N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Ruijin Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao 
Tong University, Shanghai, PR China.

The prevalence of chronic kidney disease (CKD) is reported to be 10.8-11.8% of 
the Chinese population. With economic development and longer life expectancy, 
the spectrum of CKD etiology has kept changing. Primary glomerular diseases 
(PGD) are still the most common renal diseases in China. To investigate the 
changing pattern of PGD in China, we retrospectively analyzed consecutive native 
renal biopsies performed in our hospital from 1997 to 2011. The patients were 
grouped according to a 3-year interval, 1997-1999 (period 1), 2000-2002 (period 
2), 2003-2005 (period 3), 2006-2008 (period 4), 2009-2011 (period 5), and 
divided into three age groups (<20, 20-59, and ≥60 years old). 8,909 qualified 
cases were enrolled in this study. Among 8,909 specimens, 6,337 (71.13%) were 
diagnosed as PGD, while this prevalence decreased significantly from 77.61% in 
1997-1999 to 66.73% in 2006-2008. IgA nephropathy (IgAN) was the most common PGD 
(36.66%), without any significant difference in the 5 periods (p = 0.185). IgAN 
was the most common PGD both in patients between the 20- to 59-year-old group 
(45.58%) and <20-year-old group (19.29%) as well. Membranous nephropathy (MN) 
was the most frequently found PGD in patients at age ≥60 years (39.64%). The 
frequency of MN was increased significantly from 6.48% in 1997-1999 to 22.79% in 
2009-2011 (p < 0.001). The proportion of elderly patients increased 
significantly from 3.18% in 1997-1999 to 15.21% in 2009-2011 (p < 0.001). The 
prevalence of endocapillary proliferative glomerulonephritis (EnPGN) has 
decreased since 1997. PGD has remained the most common renal disease in China, 
although with a descending trend. The spectrum of PGD is different in different 
age groups. The frequency of EnPGN has decreased significantly, while that of MN 
has increased significantly.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000348638
PMID: 23689564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Ann Intern Med. 2013 May 21;158(10):709-17. doi: 
10.7326/0003-4819-158-10-201305210-00005.

Effect of age, tumor risk, and comorbidity on competing risks for survival in a 
U.S. population-based cohort of men with prostate cancer.

Daskivich TJ(1), Fan KH, Koyama T, Albertsen PC, Goodman M, Hamilton AS, Hoffman 
RM, Stanford JL, Stroup AM, Litwin MS, Penson DF.

Author information:
(1)University of California, Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA 90024, USA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2013 Sep 3;159(5):370.
    Ann Intern Med. 2013 Sep 3;159(5):370.
    J Urol. 2013 Oct;190(4):1247.
    J Urol. 2013 Nov;190(5):1766-7.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2013 May 21;158(10):I-11.

BACKGROUND: Accurate estimation of life expectancy is essential to offering 
appropriate care to men with early-stage prostate cancer, but mortality risks 
associated with comorbidity are poorly defined.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the effect of age, comorbidity, and tumor risk on 
other-cause and prostate cancer-specific mortality in men with early-stage 
disease.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: A nationally representative, population-based cohort.
PATIENTS: 3183 men with nonmetastatic prostate cancer at diagnosis.
MEASUREMENTS: Baseline self-reported comorbidity (scored as a count of 12 major 
comorbid conditions), tumor characteristics, initial treatment, and overall and 
disease-specific mortality through 14 years of follow-up. Survival analyses that 
accounted for competing risks were performed.
RESULTS: Fourteen-year cumulative other-cause mortality rates were 24%, 33%, 
46%, and 57% for men with 0, 1, 2, and 3 or more comorbid conditions, 
respectively. For men diagnosed at age 65 years, subhazard ratios for 
other-cause mortality among those with 1, 2, or 3 or more comorbid conditions 
(vs. none) were 1.2 (95% CI, 1.0 to 1.4), 1.7 (CI, 1.4 to 2.0), and 2.4 (CI, 2.0 
to 2.8), respectively. Among men with 3 or more comorbid conditions, 10-year 
other-cause mortality rates were 26%, 40%, and 71% for those aged 60 years or 
younger, 61 to 74 years, and 75 years or older at diagnosis, respectively. 
Prostate cancer-specific mortality was minimal in patients with low-risk (3%) 
and intermediate-risk (7%) disease but appreciable in those with high-risk 
disease (18%) and did not vary by number of comorbid conditions (10% to 11% in 
all groups).
LIMITATION: Comorbid conditions were self-reported.
CONCLUSION: Older men with multiple major comorbid conditions are at high risk 
for other-cause mortality within 10 years of diagnosis and should consider this 
information when deciding between conservative management and aggressive 
treatment for low- or intermediate-risk prostate cancer.
PRIMARY FUNDING SOURCE: National Cancer Institute.

DOI: 10.7326/0003-4819-158-10-201305210-00005
PMCID: PMC3760479
PMID: 23689764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Comput Math Methods Med. 2013;2013:908591. doi: 10.1155/2013/908591. Epub
2013  Apr 16.

Corticomuscular coherence analysis on hand movement distinction for active 
rehabilitation.

Lou X(1), Xiao S, Qi Y, Hu X, Wang Y, Zheng X.

Author information:
(1)Qiushi Academy for Advanced Studies, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, Zhejiang 
310027, China.

Active rehabilitation involves patient's voluntary thoughts as the control 
signals of restore device to assist stroke rehabilitation. Although restoration 
