Canada.
(3)Department of Psychological and Brain Sciences, Indiana University, 
Bloomington, Indiana, USA.

CONTEXT: Neuropathic pain caused by chemotherapy limits dosing and duration of 
potentially life-saving anti-cancer treatment and impairs quality of life. 
Chemotherapeutic neuropathy responds poorly to conventional treatments, and 
there is an urgent medical need for new treatments. Recent preclinical studies 
demonstrate that cannabinoid agonists suppress established chemotherapy-evoked 
neuropathy.
OBJECTIVES: This was a pilot trial to begin to investigate a currently available 
cannabinoid agent, nabiximols (oral mucosal spray containing cannabinoids), in 
the treatment of chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain.
METHODS: A randomized, placebo-controlled crossover pilot study was done in 16 
patients with established chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain. A 0-10 point 
numeric rating scale for pain intensity (NRS-PI) was used as the primary outcome 
measure.
RESULTS: When examining the whole group, there was no statistically significant 
difference between the treatment and the placebo groups on the NRS-PI. A 
responder analysis demonstrated that there were five participants who reported a 
two-point or greater reduction in pain that trended toward statistical 
significance and the number needed to treat was five.
CONCLUSION: Chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain is particularly resistant to 
currently available treatments. This pilot trial found a number needed to treat 
of five and an average decrease of 2.6 on an 11-point NRS-PI in five 
"responders" (as compared with a decrease of 0.6 with placebo) and supports that 
it is worthwhile to study nabiximols in a full randomized, placebo-controlled 
trial of chemotherapy-induced neuropathic pain.

Copyright © 2014 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2013.02.018
PMID: 23742737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. NCHS Data Brief. 2013 Mar;(115):1-8.

Death in the United States, 2011.

Miniño AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Center for Health 
Statistics, Division of Vital Statistics, Hyattsville, MD 20782, USA.

In 2011, the age-adjusted death rate for the United States was 740.6 per 100,000 
population (1). This rate represents a 0.9% drop from the rate in 2010 (747.0), 
and is a record low. The highest mortality was observed for the non-Hispanic 
black population (903.9), followed by the non-Hispanic white population (753.9). 
Death rates for all race groups of the U.S. population generally have been 
decreasing since 1935 (2), and the rates for the Hispanic population have been 
declining since the late 1990s (3). Data for 2011 maintain that trend. The 
figures presented in this report are based on preliminary mortality data for 
2011 and final data for 2000-2010.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 23742756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Arch Bronconeumol. 2013 Aug;49(8):343-53. doi: 10.1016/j.arbres.2013.03.011.
 Epub 2013 Jun 4.

Guidelines for the diagnosis and treatment of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. 
Sociedad Española de Neumología y Cirugía Torácica (SEPAR) Research Group on 
Diffuse Pulmonary Diseases.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Xaubet A(1), Ancochea J, Bollo E, Fernández-Fabrellas E, Franquet T, 
Molina-Molina M, Montero MA, Serrano-Mollar A; Sociedad Española de Neumología y 
Cirugía Torácica (SEPAR) Research Group on Diffuse Pulmonary Diseases.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital Clínic, Barcelona, España. 
axaubet@clinic.ub.es

Comment in
    Arch Bronconeumol. 2013 Aug;49(8):319-20.
    Arch Bronconeumol. 2014 Jun;50(6):260-1.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is defined as a chronic fibrosing interstitial 
pneumonia limited to the lung, of unknown cause, with poor prognosis and few 
treatment options. In recent years there has been an increase in their 
prevalence, probably due to the optimization of diagnostic methods and increased 
life expectancy. The ATS/ERS Consensus (2000) established the diagnostic 
criteria and recommendations for the assessment of the disease course and 
treatment. Later studies have helped to redefine diagnostic criteria and 
treatment options. In 2011, an international consensus was published, 
establishing diagnostic criteria and new treatment strategies. These guidelines 
have been updated with the newest aspects of diagnosis and treatment of 
idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis. A level of evidence has been identified for the 
most relevant questions, particularly with regard to treatment options.

Copyright © 2012 SEPAR. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arbres.2013.03.011
PMID: 23742884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Jun;17(22):1-167. doi: 10.3310/hta17220.

Clinical and economic evaluation of laparoscopic surgery compared with medical 
management for gastro-oesophageal reflux disease: 5-year follow-up of 
multicentre randomised trial (the REFLUX trial).

Grant AM(1), Boachie C, Cotton SC, Faria R, Bojke L, Epstein DM, Ramsay CR, 
Corbacho B, Sculpher M, Krukowski ZH, Heading RC, Campbell MK; REFLUX trial 
group.

Collaborators: Mowat A, Krukowski Z, El-Omar E, Phull P, Sinclair T, Clements B, 
Collins J, Kennedy A, Lawther H, Bennett D, Davies N, Toop S, Winwood P, 
Alderson D, Barham P, Green K, Mittal R, Asante M, El Hasani S, De Beaux A, 
Heading R, Meekison L, Paterson-Brown S, Barkell H, Ferns G, Bailey M, Karanjia 
N, Rockall TA, Skelly L, Dakkak M, King J, Royston C, Sedman P, Gordon K, Potts 
LF, Smith C, Zentler-Munro PL, Munro A, Dexter S, Maoyeddi P, Lloyd DM, Loh V, 
Thursz M, Darzi A, Ahmed A, Greaves R, Sawyerr A, Wellwood J, Taylor T, Hosking 
S, Lowrey S, Snook J, Goggin P, Johns T, Quine A, Somers S, Toh S, Bancewicz J, 
Greenhalgh M, Rees W, Cheruvu CV, Deakin M, Evans S, Green J, Leslie F, Baxter 
JN, Duane P, Rahman MM, Thomas M, Williams J, Maxton D, Sigurdsson A, Smith MS, 
Townson G, Gore S, Kennedy RH, Khan KH, Knight J, Alexander D, Miller G, Parker 
D, Turnbull A, Turvill J.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, Health Sciences Building, University of 
Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK. a.grant@abdn.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Despite promising evidence that laparoscopic fundoplication provides 
better short-term relief of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD) than 
continued medical management, uncertainty remains about whether benefits are 
sustained and outweigh risks.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term clinical effectiveness, cost-effectiveness 
and safety of laparoscopic surgery among people with GORD requiring long-term 
medication and suitable for both surgical and medical management.
DESIGN: Five-year follow-up of a randomised trial (with parallel non-randomised 
preference groups) comparing a laparoscopic surgery-based policy with a 
continued medical management policy. Cost-effectiveness was assessed alongside 
the trial using a NHS perspective for costs and expressing health outcomes in 
terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
SETTING: Follow-up was by annual postal questionnaire and selective hospital 
case notes review; initial recruitment in 21 UK hospitals.
PARTICIPANTS: Questionnaire responders among the 810 original participants. At 
entry, all had documented evidence of GORD and symptoms for > 12 months. 
Questionnaire response rates (years 1-5) were from 89.5% to 68.9%.
INTERVENTIONS: Three hundred and fifty-seven participants were recruited to the 
randomised comparison (178 randomised to surgical management and 179 randomised 
to continued medical management) and 453 to the preference groups (261 surgical 
management and 192 medical management). The surgeon chose the type of 
fundoplication.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Primary: disease-specific outcome measure (the REFLUX 
questionnaire); secondary: Short Form questionnaire-36 items (SF-36), European 
Quality of Life-5 Dimensions (EQ-5D), NHS resource use, reflux medication, 
complications.
RESULTS: The randomised groups were well balanced. By 5 years, 63% in the 
randomised surgical group and 13% in the randomised medical management group had 
received a total or partial wrap fundoplication (85% and 3% in the preference 
groups), with few perioperative complications and no associated deaths. At 1 
year (and 5 years) after surgery, 36% (41%) in the randomised surgical group - 
15% (26%) of those who had surgery - were taking proton pump inhibitor 
medication compared with 87% (82%) in the randomised medical group. At each 
year, differences in the REFLUX score significantly favoured the randomised 
surgical group (a third of a SD; p< 0.01 at 5 years). SF-36 and EQ-5D scores 
also favoured surgery, but differences attenuated over time and were generally 
not statistically significant at 5 years. The worse the symptoms at trial entry, 
the larger the benefit observed after surgery. Those randomised to medical 
management who subsequently had surgery had low baseline scores that markedly 
improved after surgery. Following fundoplication, 3% had surgical treatment for 
a complication and 4% had subsequent reflux-related operations - most often 
revision of the wrap. Dysphagia, flatulence and inability to vomit were similar 
in the two randomised groups. The economic analysis indicated that surgery was 
the more cost-effective option for this patient group. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for surgery in the base case was £7028 per additional 
QALY; these findings were robust to changes in approaches and assumptions. The 
probability of surgery being cost-effective at a threshold of £20,000 per 
additional QALY was > 0.80 for all analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: After 5 years, laparoscopic fundoplication continues to provide 
better relief of GORD symptoms with associated improved health-related quality 
of life. Complications of surgery were uncommon. Despite being initially more 
costly, a surgical policy is highly likely to be cost-effective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN15517081.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment 
programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 
17, No. 22. See the HTA programme website for further project information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17220
PMCID: PMC4781276
PMID: 23742987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Demography. 2013 Oct;50(5):1563-91. doi: 10.1007/s13524-013-0222-4.

Mortality increase in late-middle and early-old age: heterogeneity in death 
processes as a new explanation.

Li T(1), Yang YC, Anderson JJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Population and Development Studies, Renmin University of China, 
No. 59 Zhongguancun Street, Haidian District, Beijing, 100872, China, 
tingli@email.unc.edu.

Deviations from the Gompertz law of exponential mortality increases in 
late-middle and early-old age are commonly neglected in overall mortality 
analyses. In this study, we examined mortality increase patterns between ages 40 
and 85 in 16 low-mortality countries and demonstrated sex differences in these 
patterns, which also changed across period and cohort. These results suggest 
that the interaction between aging and death is more complicated than what is 
usually assumed from the Gompertz law and also challenge existing biodemographic 
hypotheses about the origin and mechanisms of sex differences in mortality. We 
propose a two-mortality model that explains these patterns as the change in the 
composition of intrinsic and extrinsic death rates with age. We show that the 
age pattern of overall mortality and the population heterogeneity therein are 
possibly generated by multiple dynamics specified by a two-mortality model 
instead of a uniform process throughout most adult ages.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-013-0222-4
PMCID: PMC4028711
PMID: 23743628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Qual Life Res. 2014 Feb;23(1):363-71. doi: 10.1007/s11136-013-0449-y. Epub
2013  Jun 7.

Depression and painful conditions: patterns of association with health status 
and health utility ratings in the general population.

Patten SB(1), Williams JV, Lavorato DH, Bulloch AG, Currie G, Emery H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health Sciences, University of Calgary, 3rd Floor TRW 
Bldg., 3280 Hospital Drive NW, Calgary, AB, T2N 4Z6, Canada, patten@ucalgary.ca.

PURPOSE: Preference-weighted HRQoL (utility) ratings are increasingly used to 
guide clinical and resource allocation decisions, but their performance has not 
always been adequately explored. We sought to examine patterns of health utility 
ratings in community populations with depressive disorders and painful 
conditions.
METHODS: We used two Canadian cross-sectional health surveys that obtained 
Comprehensive Health Status Measurement System/Health Utilities Index Mark 3 
(HUI3) ratings and identified people with painful conditions and major 
depression. We estimated the frequency of item endorsements and mean utility 
ratings in these groups.
RESULTS: Interesting differences between health state ratings and diagnostic 
categories were noted. For example, 71% of those professionally diagnosed with 
migraine reported that they usually have "no pain." Despite this, utility 
ratings were lower in those respondents with depressive episodes and in those 
with painful conditions. Greater than additive reductions in HUI3 scores were 
noted in most instances where both depressive disorders and painful conditions 
were present.
CONCLUSIONS: Health utility ratings confirm the clinical impression that painful 
conditions and depressive disorders magnify each other's impact. Despite weak 
alignment between the health state definitions incorporated into utility ratings 
and the diagnostic concepts examined, the HUI3 appeared to capture HRQoL 
decrements and negative synergies associated with the co-occurrence of 
depressive episodes and painful conditions.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-013-0449-y
PMID: 23743857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2013 Oct;8(10):1791-7. doi: 10.2215/CJN.03140313.
Epub  2013 Jun 6.

Re-envisioning Fistula First in a patient-centered culture.

Gomes A(1), Schmidt R, Wish J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, University Hospitals Case Medical Center, Cleveland, 
Ohio, †Section of Nephrology, West Virginia University School of Medicine, 
Morgantown, West Virginia.

The main options for vascular access in hemodialysis patients are arteriovenous 
fistulas (AVFs), arteriovenous grafts, and tunneled cuffed central venous 
catheters. AVFs have the lowest complication rate and require the fewest 
interventions and lowest cost to maintain. There has been a dramatic national 
increase in prevalent AVFs among patients with ESRD in the United States driven, 
in part, by the Fistula First Breakthrough Initiative. The Fistula First 
Breakthrough Initiative has engaged stakeholders in the dialysis community to 
disseminate best practices and quality improvement activities to increase AVF 
prevalence in suitable candidates. In the pursuit of maximizing AVF placement 
and prevalence, less emphasis has been placed on the individual patient context. 
An AVF may not be the best access choice in a subset of patients, particularly 
those with poor long-term prognoses or comorbid chronic diseases with a short 
life expectancy, those patients more likely to die than to have their CKD 
progress to ESRD requiring dialysis, and those with vascular anatomy not 
amenable to successful AVF placement. Placement of an AVF in these patients 
subjects them to uncomfortable and likely unnecessary and/or unsuccessful 
surgeries at an expense, while doing little to improve their clinical outcome or 
their individual experience of care. AVF prevalence as a pay-for-performance 
measure without the appropriate case-mix adjustment may penalize providers for 
accepting higher-risk patients. Although a functioning AVF that provides 
reliable hemodialysis remains the gold standard for vascular access for most 
patients, it may not be the most suitable option for every patient.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.03140313
PMCID: PMC3789343
PMID: 23744004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Gut. 2014 May;63(5):771-5. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2013-304766. Epub 2013 Jun 6.

Mortality and causes of death in Crohn's disease: results from 20 years of 
follow-up in the IBSEN study.

Hovde Ø(1), Kempski-Monstad I, Småstuen MC, Solberg IC, Henriksen M, Jahnsen J, 
Stray N, Moum BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Innlandet Hospital Trust, , Gjøvik, Oppland, 
Norway.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2013 Nov 19;159(10):JC12.

OBJECTIVE: Population-based studies have shown a slightly decreased life 
expectancy in patients with Crohn's disease (CD). The primary aim of the present 
study was to evaluate mortality and causes of death 20 years after the diagnosis 
in a well defined population-based cohort of CD patients in Norway.
DESIGN: The Inflammatory Bowel South-Eastern Norway study has prospectively 
followed all patients diagnosed with CD in the period between 1 January 1990 and 
31 December 1993 in four geographically well-defined areas. All patients (n=237) 
were age and sex matched with 25 persons from the same county selected at random 
from the general population. Data on death and causes of deaths were collected 
from the Norwegian Causes of Death Register. All causes and cause-specific 
mortality (gastrointestinal cancer, cancer and heart disease) were modelled with 
Cox regression model stratified by matched sets. Results are expressed as HRs 
with 95% CIs.
RESULTS: There was no significant difference between CD patients and controls in 
overall mortality (HR=1.35, 95% CI 0.94 to 1.94, p=0.10). Furthermore, there 
were no marked differences in deaths from gastrointestinal cancer, other cancers 
or cardiovascular diseases in the CD group compared with the controls. In the CD 
group, 13.9% had died compared with 12.7% in the control group (p=0.578).
CONCLUSIONS: In our population-based inception cohort followed for 20 years, 
there was no increased mortality or more deaths from cancer compared with the 
general population.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2013-304766
PMID: 23744613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. Xi Bao Yu Fen Zi Mian Yi Xue Za Zhi. 2013 Jun;29(6):647-51.

[Construction and immunogenicity analysis of tumor peptide vaccine 
P64k-EGFR(262-328); targeting the dimmerization interface of EGFR].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao L(1), Wu M, Chen Z, Li H, Zhou L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology, School of Life Science and Biopharmaceutics, 
Guangdong Pharmaceutical University, Guangzhou 510006, China.

OBJECTIVE: To construct a tumor-specific peptide vaccine P64k-EGFR(262-328); 
targeting the dimerization interface of EGFR and analyze its immunogenicity in 
BALB/c mice.
METHODS: The fusion gene of P64k-EGFR(262-328); was amplified by splicing 
overlap extension-PCR (SOE-PCR) and cloned into the pMD18-T vector. After 
double-enzyme cleavage and sequence analysis, the fusion gene was cloned into 
the expression vector pET-21b by digestion with Nde I and Hind III and then 
transformed into the BL21(DE3). After induced by IPTG to express, the fusion 
protein P64k-EGFR(262-328); was purified by source Q and Ni-NTA chromatography. 
BALB/c mice were immunized with the purified protein dissolved in 
double-distilled water emulsified (1:1) in Freuds' adjuvant, and their sera were 
tested for antibody titers by ELISA.
RESULTS: The P64k-EGFR(262-328); gene of 2031 bp was acquired. SDS-PAGE showed 
that the recombinant protein was 70 kDa, expressed mainly in a soluble form. 
After two steps of column chromatography, the purity was over 95%. The peptide 
vaccine could elicit a high titer of more than 1:16 000 in BALB/c mice.
CONCLUSION: The tumor-specific peptied vaccine P64k-EGFR(262-328); was 
constructed successfully, which could pay a good foundation for the further 
study on its function and application.

PMID: 23746251 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Atherosclerosis. 2013 Aug;229(2):496-503. doi: 
10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.05.006. Epub 2013 May 16.

Stroke in sickle cell anemia patients: a need for multidisciplinary approaches.

Menaa F(1).

Author information:
(1)Center of Hematology and Hemotherapy (Hemocentro), School of Medicine and 
Medical Sciences (FCM), University of Campinas (UNICAMP), São Paulo, Brazil. 
dr.fmenaa@gmail.com

Sickle cell anemia (SCA) is an autosomal recessive disorder, with Mendelian 
inheritance pattern, caused by a missense mutation in the β-polypeptide chain of 
the hemoglobin B. SCA preferentially affects populations in countries where 
malaria was/is present (e.g. Africa, USA, Brazil). Thereby, in USA, the 
incidence of SCA is relatively high, around 1/500, and the prevalence is about 
1/1000. In Brazil, SCA represents a major public health problem with an 
incidence ranging from 1/2000 to 1/600 depending on the regions. Homozygotic 
patients present more severe medical conditions and reduced life expectancy than 
heterozygous individuals who generally are asymptomatic. Eventually, this 
life-threatening disease displays a complex etiology owing to heterogeneous 
phenotypes and clinical outcomes, subsequently affecting the management of the 
patients. One of the most critical complications associated with SCA is stroke, 
a leading neurologic cause of death and disability. About 24% of SCA patients 
have a stroke by the age of 45 and 11% by the age of 20. From the general 
population, twin and familial aggregation studies as well as genome-wide 
association studies (GWAS), mostly in pediatric populations with ischemic 
stroke, showed that the risk of stroke has a substantial genetic component. 
Nevertheless, to fully characterize genomic contributors of stroke and permit 
reliable personalized medicine, multidisciplinary studies incorporating 
knowledge from clinical medicine, epidemiology, genetics, and molecular biology, 
are required. In this manuscript, stroke in SCA patients is extensively reviewed 
with emphasis to the US and Brazilian populations. Recent advances in genomics 
analysis of stroke in SCA patients are highlighted.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.atherosclerosis.2013.05.006
PMID: 23746538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Thromb Res. 2013 Jul;132(1):8-14. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2013.05.007. Epub
2013  Jun 6.

Management of cardiovascular disease in haemophilia.

Cayla G(1), Morange PE, Chambost H, Schved JF.

Author information:
(1)GHU Carémeau, Service de Cardiologie, CHU de Nîmes, France.

Improvements in the management of haemophilia have led to a significant increase 
in the life expectancy of haemophilia patients, which is now close to the life 
expectancy in the general male population. Therefore, age-related conditions, 
especially cardiovascular disease (CVD), have become increasingly common in 
these patients. The management of CVD, especially that of coronary artery 
disease (CAD), acute coronary syndrome (ACS) and atrial fibrillation (AF), is 
particularly challenging in patients with haemophilia due to the need to find an 
adequate balance between bleeding and ischemic risk, requiring close 
coordination between cardiologists and haemophilia specialists. However, 
specific recommendations and relevant literature and data are scarce. Therefore, 
we propose pragmatic and practical therapeutic suggestions, based on the 
available literature and our own experience, for the management of ACS, stable 
angina and AF in patients with haemophilia. Overall, evidence and experience 
suggest that they should be treated much in the same way as the general CVD 
population, following standard guidelines, while choosing available treatment 
options known to be associated with low rates of bleeding complications. 
Treatments advocated for patient with haemophilia include antiplatelet therapy 
(aspirin and P2Y12 inhibitors), antithrombin therapy such as heparin or 
bivalirudin, glycoprotein IIb/IIIa inhibitors (GPIIb/IIIa inhibitors), 
transradial cardiac catheterization, and use of bare metal (BMS) or drug-eluting 
stents (DES). Antithrombotic agents with shorter half-lives that are reversible 
or have an antidote offer a safer choice in this setting. In addition, optimal 
clotting factor replacement therapy should be tailored to the increased risk of 
bleeding associated with invasive procedures and antithrombotic therapies, 
particularly during the acute phase of ACS.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2013.05.007
PMID: 23746627 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Lancet. 2013 Jun 8;381(9882):1961-2. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61031-4.

Policy dialogue on China's changing burden of disease.

Liu Y(1), Yang G, Zeng Y, Horton R, Chen L.

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
yuanliu@hsph.harvard.edu

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61031-4
PMID: 23746883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Lancet. 2013 Jun 8;381(9882):1987-2015. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61097-1.

Rapid health transition in China, 1990-2010: findings from the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2010.

Yang G(1), Wang Y, Zeng Y, Gao GF, Liang X, Zhou M, Wan X, Yu S, Jiang Y, 
Naghavi M, Vos T, Wang H, Lopez AD, Murray CJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences & 
School of Basic Medicine, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: China has undergone rapid demographic and epidemiological changes in 
the past few decades, including striking declines in fertility and child 
mortality and increases in life expectancy at birth. Popular discontent with the 
health system has led to major reforms. To help inform these reforms, we did a 
comprehensive assessment of disease burden in China, how it changed between 1990 
and 2010, and how China's health burden compares with other nations.
METHODS: We used results of the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk 
Factors Study 2010 (GBD 2010) for 1990 and 2010 for China and 18 other countries 
in the G20 to assess rates and trends in mortality, causes of death, years of 
life lost (YLLs), years lived with disability (YLDs), disability-adjusted 
life-years (DALYs), and healthy life expectancy (HALE). We present results for 
231 diseases and injuries and for 67 risk factors or clusters of risk factors 
relevant to China. We assessed relative performance of China against G20 
countries (significantly better, worse, or indistinguishable from the G20 mean) 
with age-standardised rates and 95% uncertainty intervals.
FINDINGS: The leading causes of death in China in 2010 were stroke (1·7 million 
deaths, 95% UI 1·5-1·8 million), ischaemic heart disease (948,700 deaths, 
774,500-1,024,600), and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (934,000 deaths, 
846,600-1,032,300). Age-standardised YLLs in China were lower in 2010 than all 
emerging economies in the G20, and only slightly higher than noted in the USA. 
China had the lowest age-standardised YLD rate in the G20 in 2010. China also 
ranked tenth (95% UI eighth to tenth) for HALE and 12th (11th to 13th) for life 
expectancy. YLLs from neonatal causes, infectious diseases, and injuries in 
children declined substantially between 1990 and 2010. Mental and behavioural 
disorders, substance use disorders, and musculoskeletal disorders were 
responsible for almost half of all YLDs. The fraction of DALYs from YLDs rose 
from 28·1% (95% UI 24·2-32·5) in 1990 to 39·4% (34·9-43·8) in 2010. Leading 
causes of DALYs in 2010 were cardiovascular diseases (stroke and ischaemic heart 
disease), cancers (lung and liver cancer), low back pain, and depression. 
Dietary risk factors, high blood pressure, and tobacco exposure are the risk 
factors that constituted the largest number of attributable DALYs in China. 
Ambient air pollution ranked fourth (third to fifth; the second highest in the 
G20) and household air pollution ranked fifth (fourth to sixth; the third 
highest in the G20) in terms of the age-standardised DALY rate in 2010.
INTERPRETATION: The rapid rise of non-communicable diseases driven by 
urbanisation, rising incomes, and ageing poses major challenges for China's 
health system, as does a shift to chronic disability. Reduction of population 
exposures from poor diet, high blood pressure, tobacco use, cholesterol, and 
fasting blood glucose are public policy priorities for China, as are the control 
of ambient and household air pollution. These changes will require an integrated 
government response to improve primary care and undertake required multisectoral 
action to tackle key risks. Analyses of disease burden provide a useful 
framework to guide policy responses to the changing disease spectrum in China.
FUNDING: Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61097-1
PMCID: PMC7159289
PMID: 23746901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Rev Esp Cir Ortop Traumatol. 2013 May-Jun;57(3):186-93. doi: 
10.1016/j.recot.2013.02.003. Epub 2013 Mar 26.

[Elective primary total hip arthroplasty in octogenarians. A case-control 
study].

[Article in Spanish]

Lizaur-Utrilla A(1), Sanz-Reig J.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía Ortopédica, Hospital Universitario de Elda, Elda, 
Alicante, Spain. lizaur1@telefonica.net

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the results and efficacy of cementless total hip 
arthroplasty (THA) in octogenarians with osteoarthritis.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Matched case-control study with ratio 1:2. Consecutive 
selection of 54 octogenarians (55 hips), and 106 control patients (110 hips) 
with age ranging from 70 to 79 years. Mean follow-up of 7 years (range: 5-12). 
Before 5 postoperative years, 1 and 4 patients, respectively, died and they were 
excluded. Clinical assessment was performed using ASA grade, comorbidities, and 
Harris and Merle D'Aubigné hip scores, and radiographic, complications, and 
mortality evaluations were made.
RESULTS: There were no perioperative deaths in either cohort. The rates of 
postoperative medical complications (P=.601) and survival (P=.360) were similar. 
The survival at 7 years was 89.8% in octogenarian and 95.3% in controls, with no 
influence of the preoperative variables. There were no differences in 
postoperative functional outcomes (P=.761), but improvement respect to the 
preoperative was higher in octogenarian (P=.002). In octogenarians there were 2 
intraoperative fractures, 2 dislocations and 2 unstable stems, and in control 
patients 1 deep infection, 1 peri-prosthetic femoral fracture, 2 unstable cups 
and 4 unstable stems. The rates of aseptic complications, the need for revision, 
and arthroplasty survival (94% at 7 years) were similar in both cohorts.
DISCUSSION: Due to improvement in health status, the octogenarian may have a 
life expectancy of at least 10 years. The cost arguments and an arbitrary age 
should not influence the selection of candidates for cementless THA.
CONCLUSIONS: Cementless THA has been shown to be safe and effective in 
octogenarian patients with osteoarthritis. The notable increase found in 
functional outcomes justifies the continued use in these patients.

Copyright © 2012 SECOT. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.recot.2013.02.003
PMID: 23746916 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Transplant Proc. 2013 Sep;45(7):2845-8. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2012.12.001.  Epub 2013 Jun 6.

An unusual presentation of a chronic lymphocytic leukemia patient with 17p 
deletion after reduced-intensity transplantation: Richter syndrome and 
concomitant graft-versus-host disease--case report.

Salihoglu A(1), Ozbalak M, Keskin D, Tecimer T, Soysal T, Ferhanoglu B.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Internal Medicine, Cerrahpasa Medical 
Faculty, Istanbul University, Istanbul, Turkey.

Chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients with 17p deletion comprise a 
challenging subgroup associated with poor overall survival. These patients 
should be treated with alternative strategies. Reduced-intensity conditioning 
(RIC) allogeneic stem cell transplantation (allo-SCT) can achieve long-term 
remission in this ultra-high-risk CLL group. Herein, we described a CLL patient 
with 17p deletion who developed Richter syndrome with extranodal involvement of 
the liver soon after RIC allo-SCT despite apparent acute graft-versus-host 
disease. The majority of chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) patients respond 
well to chemoimmunotherapy. Patients who show ultra-high-risk genetics, such as 
17p deletions, comprise a challenging subgroup of patients with poor response to 
chemoimmunotherapy and median life expectancy <2-3 years at the time of 
first-line treatment. Current treatment approaches for patients with 17p 
deletion include agents acting independently from the DNA damage pathway, such 
as alemtuzumab and high-dose corticosteroids. RIC allo-SCT for consolidation can 
achieve long-term remission in this ultra-high-risk CLL group.(1,2) Richter 
syndrome (RS) represents the clinicopathologic transformation of CLL to an 
aggressive lymphoma, most commonly diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL).(3) RS 
appearing after allo-SCT can be managed by tapering of immunosuppression, 
followed by dose-escalated donor lymphocyte infusion titrated to the degree of 
leukemia response and graft-versus-host disease (GVHD) encountered.(4) Herein, 
we describe a CLL patient with 17p deletion who developed RS with extranodal 
involvement of the liver soon after RIC allo-SCT despite apparent acute GVHD 
(aGVHD).

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2012.12.001
PMID: 23747187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Tumori. 2013 Mar-Apr;99(2):154-8. doi: 10.1177/030089161309900206.

Total mesorectal excision for rectal cancer: laparoscopic versus open approach.

Ying X(1), Li Z, Shen Y, Ye P, Pan W, Chen H, Zhang L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Colorectal Surgery, Shaoxing People's Hospital, Shaoxing 
Hospital of Zhejiang University, Shaoxing 312000, Zhejiang Province, China.

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: To evaluate the oncologic safety of laparoscopic total 
mesorectal excision for rectal cancer. Methods and study design. Patients who 
underwent laparoscopic (n = 256) or open (n = 173) total mesorectal excision for 
rectal cancer between June 2005 and June 2011 were included. Long-term survival 
operative data and postoperative recovery were retrospectively reviewed from a 
prospectively collected database.
RESULTS: No significant difference was found between the two groups in terms of 
age, sex, tumor stage and preoperative comorbidities. Twelve patients were 
converted to open procedures. Differences were found in blood loss (55 ± 14.1 vs 
152 ± 29.2 ml P <0.05), infection of incision (3.1% vs 12.7%, P <0.05) and 
postoperative stay (8.1 ± 3.0 vs 12.4 ± 6.3 days, P <0.05). Both groups were 
comparable regarding lymph node clearance specimen length and distal margin. 
There was no significant difference in overall survival between the two groups 
by the life-table method. However, operative time in the laparoscopic group was 
longer than in the open group (168 ± 27.6 vs 141 ± 21.9 min, P <0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Laparoscopic total mesorectal excision for rectal cancer offers 
oncologic results similar to those obtained with the open procedure with a 
favorable short-term outcome. Continued use of the procedure in these patients 
is supported.

DOI: 10.1177/030089161309900206
PMID: 23748807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Tumori. 2013 Mar-Apr;99(2):218-24. doi: 10.1177/030089161309900216.

Home artificial nutrition in advanced cancer patients.

Ruggeri E(1), Agostini F, Fettucciari L, Giannantonio M, Pironi L, Pannuti F.

Author information:
(1)ANT (Associazione Nazionale Tumori) Foundation, Bologna, Italy. 
enrico.ruggeri@inwind.it

AIMS AND BACKGROUND: Malnutrition is over 50% in advanced cancer patients and is 
related to a decreased survival. Cachexia is the first reason for death in 4-23% 
of cases. The aim of the study was to estimate the appropriateness of the 
criteria to select patients for home artificial nutrition and its effectiveness 
to avoid death from cachexia and to improve quality of life in patients with 
advanced cancer assisted at home by the National Tumor Association (ANT) 
Foundation.
METHODS AND STUDY DESIGN: The criteria for patient selection are: inadequate 
caloric intake ± malnutrition; life expectancy ≥6 weeks; suitable 
psycho-physical conditions; informed consent. The measured parameters were sex, 
age, tumor site, food intake, nutritional status, Karnofsky performance status, 
indication for home artificial nutrition, type of home artificial nutrition 
(enteral or parenteral), and survival after starting home artificial nutrition.
RESULTS: The ANT Foundation assisted 29,348 patients in Bologna and its province 
from July 1990 to July 2012. Home artificial nutrition had been submitted to 618 
patients (2.1%): enteral to 285/618 (46.1%) and parenteral to 333/618 (53.9%). 
Access routes for home artificial nutrition were: 39% nasogastric tube, 26% 
percutaneous endoscopic gastrostomy, 33% digiunostomy, and 2% gastrostomy. The 
central venous catheters used for home artificial nutrition were: 61% 
non-tunneled, 13 peripherally inserted, 8% partially tunneled, and 18% totally 
implanted. By July 2012, all the patients had died. Duration of life ≥6 weeks 
was 78% (484/618). Karnofsky performance status was related to survival ( P 
<0.0001): one month after starting home artificial nutrition, it decreased in 73 
patients (12%), was unchanged in 414 (67%), and increased in 131 (21%).
CONCLUSIONS: The low incidence of home artificial nutrition over all the 
patients assisted by the ANT Foundation and the achievement to avoid death from 
cachexia in 78% prove the efficacy of the criteria of patient selection in order 
to prevent its excessive and indiscriminate use. It was effective in maintaining 
and improving the performance status in 88% of patients. Karnofsky performance 
status is a reliable prognostic index to start home artificial nutrition.

DOI: 10.1177/030089161309900216
PMID: 23748817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Qual Life Res. 2014 Mar;23(2):413-23. doi: 10.1007/s11136-013-0448-z. Epub
2013  Jun 8.

The valuation of the EQ-5D in Portugal.

Ferreira LN(1), Ferreira PL, Pereira LN, Oppe M.

Author information:
(1)School of Management, Hospitality and Tourism, University of the Algarve, 
Faro, Portugal, Lnferrei@ualg.pt.

PURPOSE: The EQ-5D is a preference-based measure widely used in cost-utility 
analysis (CUA). Several countries have conducted surveys to derive value sets, 
but this was not the case for Portugal. The purpose of this study was to 
estimate a value set for the EQ-5D for Portugal using the time trade-off (TTO).
METHODS: A representative sample of the Portuguese general population (n = 450) 
stratified by age and gender valued 24 health states. Face-to-face interviews 
were conducted by trained interviewers. Each respondent ranked and valued seven 
health states using the TTO. Several models were estimated at both the 
individual and aggregated levels to predict health state valuations. Alternative 
functional forms were considered to account for the skewed distribution of these 
valuations.
RESULTS: The models were analyzed in terms of their coefficients, overall fit 
and the ability for predicting the TTO values. Random effects models were 
estimated using generalized least squares and were robust across model 
specification. The results are generally consistent with other value sets.
CONCLUSION: This research provides the Portuguese EQ-5D value set based on the 
preferences of the Portuguese general population as measured by the TTO. This 
value set is recommended for use in CUA conducted in Portugal.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-013-0448-z
PMID: 23748906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Curr Hypertens Rep. 2013 Aug;15(4):321-30. doi: 10.1007/s11906-013-0359-y.

Gender differences in hypertension: myths and reality.

Doumas M(1), Papademetriou V, Faselis C, Kokkinos P.

Author information:
(1)Veteran Affairs Medical Center and George Washington University, 50 Irwing 
Street NW, Washington, DC 20422, USA. michalisdoumas@yahoo.co.uk

Life expectancy is longer in women compared to men, and cardiovascular events 
occur at a lower rate and at a later age in females than males. The impact of 
gender on the prevalence, the presentation, and the long-term outcome of 
cardiovascular disease has long been a topic of active research. Gender 
differences have been found in several studies but opposite findings also exist. 
The impact of gender in hypertension and antihypertensive therapy remains poorly 
clarified. The prevalence, awareness, treatment, and control rates of 
hypertension exhibit some differences between the two sexes, which are 
age-dependent. The female advantage in the cardiovascular risk of hypertensive 
patients might be attenuated by comorbidities and target organ damage. Another 
aspect of major clinical importance is whether gender differences exist on the 
effects of antihypertensive agents in blood pressure reduction and 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. The aim of this review is to critically 
evaluate recent data regarding gender differences in hypertension and 
incorporate new data into the body of existing knowledge.

DOI: 10.1007/s11906-013-0359-y
PMID: 23749317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


237. Thorax. 2013 Sep;68(9):818-25. doi: 10.1136/thoraxjnl-2012-202230. Epub 2013
Jun  8.

Phase II studies of nebulised Arikace in CF patients with Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
infection.

Clancy JP(1), Dupont L, Konstan MW, Billings J, Fustik S, Goss CH, Lymp J, Minic 
P, Quittner AL, Rubenstein RC, Young KR, Saiman L, Burns JL, Govan JR, Ramsey B, 
Gupta R; Arikace Study Group.

Collaborators: Clancy J, Young R, Ahrens R, Aitken M, Billings J, Faro A, Goss 
C, Layish D, Lechtzin N, Light M, Miller S, Nasr S, Nick J, Rubenstein R, 
Sannuti A, Sawicki G, Taylor-Cousar J, Trapnell B, Wallace J, Minic P, Fustik S, 
Solyom E, Mazurek H, Antipkin Y, Feketeova A, Senatorova A, Csiszer E, 
Kostromina V, Takac B, Ujhelyi R, Sovtic A, Buccat AM, Doherty C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Cincinnati Children's Hospital Medical Center, 
Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. john.clancy@cchmc.org

RATIONALE: Arikace is a liposomal amikacin preparation for aerosol delivery with 
potent Pseudomonas aeruginosa killing and prolonged lung deposition.
OBJECTIVES: To examine the safety and efficacy of 28 days of once-daily Arikace 
in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients chronically infected with P aeruginosa.
METHODS: 105 subjects were evaluated in double-blind, placebo-controlled 
studies. Subjects were randomised to once-daily Arikace (70, 140, 280 and 560 
mg; n=7, 5, 21 and 36 subjects) or placebo (n=36) for 28 days. Primary outcomes 
included safety and tolerability. Secondary outcomes included lung function 
(forced expiratory volume at one second (FEV1)), P aeruginosa density in sputum, 
and the Cystic Fibrosis Quality of Life Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R).
RESULTS: The adverse event profile was similar among Arikace and placebo 
subjects. The relative change in FEV1 was higher in the 560 mg dose group at day 
28 (p=0.033) and at day 56 (28 days post-treatment, 0.093L±0.203 vs 
-0.032L±0.119; p=0.003) versus placebo. Sputum P aeruginosa density decreased >1 
log in the 560 mg group versus placebo (days 14, 28 and 35; p=0.021). The 
Respiratory Domain of the CFQ-R increased by the Minimal Clinically Important 
Difference (MCID) in 67% of Arikace subjects (560 mg) versus 36% of placebo 
(p=0.006), and correlated with FEV1 improvements at days 14, 28 and 42 (p<0.05). 
An open-label extension (560 mg Arikace) for 28 days followed by 56 days off 
over six cycles confirmed durable improvements in lung function and sputum P 
aeruginosa density (n=49).
CONCLUSIONS: Once-daily Arikace demonstrated acute tolerability, safety, 
biologic activity and efficacy in patients with CF with P aeruginosa infection.

DOI: 10.1136/thoraxjnl-2012-202230
PMCID: PMC3756431
PMID: 23749840 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Ideggyogy Sz. 2013 Mar 30;66(3-4):143-4.

[Better life expectations of SM patients: 21 years follow up of patients treated 
with interferon beta-1b].

[Article in Hungarian]

Komoly S.

PMID: 23750430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Stem Cells Dev. 2013 Oct 15;22(20):2806-12. doi: 10.1089/scd.2013.0172. Epub
 2013 Jul 13.

Allogeneic lethally irradiated cord blood mononuclear cells in no-option 
critical limb ischemia: a "box of rain".

Perotti C(1), Arici V, Cervio M, Del Fante C, Calliada F, Gnecchi M, Ciuffreda 
MC, Scudeller L, Bozzani A, Ragni F, Viarengo G, Cervio E, Odero A, Redi CA.

Author information:
(1)1 Immunohematology and Transfusion Service, IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo of 
Pavia Foundation , Pavia, Italy .

Critical limb ischemia (CLI) is burdened by a 40% major amputation rate, and a 
5-year life expectancy <50%. We report the first in-human injection of lethally 
γ-irradiated non-human leukocyte antigen (HLA)-matched cord blood (CB)-derived 
mononuclear cells in a no-option CLI patient, to induce therapeutic 
neo-angiogenesis, with evidence of successful outcome supported by clinical 
findings (ulcer healing and pain relief), instrumental assessment 
(transcutaneous O2 pressure, ankle/brachial index, and contrast-enhanced 
ultrasonography), and histological demonstration of muscular tissue repair and 
capillary network expansion. If our approach will be confirmed, the huge number 
of CB units currently discarded might be redirected toward regenerative medicine 
purposes, leading to cutting-edge solutions for important unmet clinical needs, 
such as ischemic diseases, which remain the main cause of disability and 
mortality in western countries.

DOI: 10.1089/scd.2013.0172
PMID: 23750591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. Innate Immun. 2014 Feb;20(2):161-72. doi: 10.1177/1753425913485877. Epub
2013  Jun 10.

Neuronally-expressed Sarm1 regulates expression of inflammatory and antiviral 
cytokines in brains.

Lin CW(1), Liu HY, Chen CY, Hsueh YP.

Author information:
(1)1Molecular Cell Biology, Taiwan International Graduate Program, Institute of 
Molecular Biology, Academia Sinica, and Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, 
National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, Taiwan.

Sarm1 is the fifth Toll/IL-1 receptor (TIR) domain-containing adaptor protein 
identified to regulate TLR downstream signaling. Unlike the other TIR 
domain-containing adaptor proteins, Sarm1 is predominantly expressed in the 
brain. Our previous study indicated that Sarm1 regulates dendritic growth, 
axonal extension and neuronal polarity. Here, we investigated whether Sarm1 is 
involved in innate immunity in the brain. First, regional and cell-type 
distribution of Sarm1 in mouse brains was revealed using double immunostaining. 
Sarm1 was widely distributed in different regions of brains, including the 
cerebral cortex, hippocampus, amygdala, cerebellum and midbrain. Moreover, Sarm1 
is present in both projection and inhibitory neurons, but, interestingly, not in 
microglial cells--the main immune cells in the brain. These results suggest that 
Sarm1 is unlikely to regulate microglial activity in a cell-autonomous manner. 
However, compared with wild type littermates, the RNA expression levels of 
several inflammatory and antiviral cytokines were altered in the embryonic and 
adult brains of Sarm1 knockdown transgenic mice. These data imply that Sarm1 
influences cytokine expression in neurons. In conclusion, our findings suggest 
that Sarm1 regulates the innate immune responses of the central nervous system 
through regulating the inflammatory and anti-virus cytokines produced by 
neurons.

DOI: 10.1177/1753425913485877
PMID: 23751821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Neurology. 2013 Jun 11;80(24):2246-7. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e318296e7c3.

Meeting the challenges of stroke in India.

Mehndiratta MM(1), Singhal AB, Chaturvedi S, Sivakumar MR, Moonis M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, GB Pant Hospital, New Delhi, India. 
mmehndi@hotmail.com

Comment in
    Neurology. 2014 Jan 7;82(1):95-6.
    Neurology. 2014 Jan 7;82(1):96.
    Neurology. 2014 Jan 7;82(1):96.

Worldwide, cerebrovascular diseases are responsible for 6.15 million deaths 
(10.8% of all deaths)(1) and are the second most common cause of mortality; 87% 
of stroke deaths occur in low or middle income countries.(2) With the world's 
second largest population, India is witnessing several adverse trends for the 
cardiovascular health of its population, including a rapid rise in the 
proportion of patients with diabetes and dyslipidemia, and the relative lack of 
exercise among the general population. India has the world's largest population 
of patients with diabetes, with over 62 million people with diabetes in 2011.(3) 
At the current time, the population in India is projected to have over 1 million 
strokes per year. This figure will surely rise in the coming decades due to 
longer life expectancy and the downstream influence of risk factors such as 
diabetes.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e318296e7c3
PMCID: PMC3721101
PMID: 23751917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2013 Aug;26(8):489-501. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzt023.
Epub  2013 Jun 10.

PASylation: a biological alternative to PEGylation for extending the plasma 
half-life of pharmaceutically active proteins.

Schlapschy M(1), Binder U, Börger C, Theobald I, Wachinger K, Kisling S, Haller 
D, Skerra A.

Author information:
(1)Munich Center for Integrated Protein Science CIPS-M & Lehrstuhl für 
Biologische Chemie, Technische Universität München, Emil-Erlenmeyer-Forum 5, 
85350 Freising-Weihenstephan, Germany.

A major limitation of biopharmaceutical proteins is their fast clearance from 
circulation via kidney filtration, which strongly hampers efficacy both in 
animal studies and in human therapy. We have developed conformationally 
disordered polypeptide chains with expanded hydrodynamic volume comprising the 
small residues Pro, Ala and Ser (PAS). PAS sequences are hydrophilic, uncharged 
biological polymers with biophysical properties very similar to poly-ethylene 
glycol (PEG), whose chemical conjugation to drugs is an established method for 
plasma half-life extension. In contrast, PAS polypeptides offer fusion to a 
therapeutic protein on the genetic level, permitting Escherichia coli production 
of fully active proteins and obviating in vitro coupling or modification steps. 
Furthermore, they are biodegradable, thus avoiding organ accumulation, while 
showing stability in serum and lacking toxicity or immunogenicity in mice. We 
demonstrate that PASylation bestows typical biologics, such as interferon, 
growth hormone or Fab fragments, with considerably prolonged circulation and 
boosts bioactivity in vivo.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzt023
PMCID: PMC3715784
PMID: 23754528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Arthritis Rheum. 2013 Aug;65(8):2154-60. doi: 10.1002/art.38006.

Effect of renal disease on the standardized mortality ratio and life expectancy 
of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus.

Mok CC(1), Kwok RC, Yip PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Tuen Mun Hospital, Tsing Chung Koon Road, New 
Territories, Hong Kong, China. ccmok2005@yahoo.com

OBJECTIVE: To study the effect of renal disease on the standardized mortality 
ratio (SMR) and life expectancy of patients with systemic lupus erythematosus 
(SLE).
METHODS: Patients whose diagnosis met ≥4 American College of Rheumatology 
criteria for SLE were longitudinally followed up from 1995 to 2011. The 
cumulative survival rate, SMR, and life expectancy were calculated, and the 
effect of renal involvement, histologic class of lupus nephritis, renal damage, 
and end-stage renal disease (ESRD) on these parameters was evaluated.
RESULTS: Of the 694 SLE patients studied, 368 (53%) had renal disease, and the 
distribution of histologic classes (among 285 patients) was class I (1%), class 
II (6%), class III (19%), class IV (47%), class III/IV + class V (10%), and 
class V (16%). Renal damage was present in 79 patients (11%), and 24 (3%) 
developed ESRD. The age- and sex-adjusted hazard ratios (HRs) of mortality in 
SLE patients with renal disease, those with renal damage, and those with ESRD, 
as compared to those without, were 2.23 (95% confidence interval [95% CI] 
1.29-3.85), 3.59 (95% CI 2.20-5.87), and 9.20 (95% CI 4.92-17.2), respectively. 
Proliferative lupus nephritis (adjusted HR 2.28, 95% CI 1.22-4.24), but not the 
pure membranous type (adjusted HR 1.09, 95% CI 0.38-3.14), was associated with a 
significant increase in mortality. The age- and sex-adjusted SMRs of SLE 
patients without renal involvement, those with lupus nephritis, those with 
proliferative nephritis, those with pure membranous nephritis, those with renal 
