systematically affected by the duration of the health state. In the tasks with a 
10-year health-state duration, anxiety/depression had the largest negative 
impact on health-state values; in the tasks with a 5-year duration, the 
pain/discomfort domain had the largest negative impact.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0507-y
PMCID: PMC3728436
PMID: 23900664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Jul;14 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S53-64. doi: 
10.1007/s10198-013-0508-x.

Time trade-off: one methodology, different methods.

Attema AE(1), Edelaar-Peeters Y, Versteegh MM, Stolk EA.

Author information:
(1)iBMG/iMTA, Erasmus University, PO Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. attema@bmg.eur.nl

There is no scientific consensus on the optimal specification of the time 
trade-off (TTO) task. As a consequence, studies using TTO to value health states 
may share the core element of trading length of life for quality of life, but 
can differ considerably on many other elements. While this pluriformity in 
specifications advances the understanding of TTO from a methodological point of 
view, it also results in incomparable health state values. Health state values 
are applied in health technology assessments, and in that context comparability 
of information is desired. In this article, we discuss several alternative 
specifications of TTO presented in the literature. The defining elements of 
these specifications are identified as being either methodological, procedural 
or analytical in nature. Where possible, it is indicated how these elements 
affect health state values (i.e., upward or downward). Finally, a checklist for 
TTO studies is presented, which incorporates a list of choices to be made by 
researchers who wish to perform a TTO task. Such a checklist enables other 
researchers to align methodologies in order to enhance the comparability of 
health state values.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0508-x
PMCID: PMC3728453
PMID: 23900665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Eur J Health Econ. 2013 Jul;14 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S65-73. doi: 
10.1007/s10198-013-0509-9.

One-to-one versus group setting for conducting computer-assisted TTO studies: 
findings from pilot studies in England and the Netherlands.

Shah KK(1), Lloyd A, Oppe M, Devlin NJ.

Author information:
(1)Office of Health Economics, 7th Floor Southside, 105 Victoria Street, London 
SW1E 6QT, UK. kshah@ohe.org

We compare two settings for administering time trade-off (TTO) tasks in 
computer-assisted interviews (one-to-one, interviewer-led versus group, 
self-complete) by examining the quality of the data generated in pilot studies 
undertaken in England and the Netherlands. The two studies used near-identical 
methods, except that in England, data were collected in one-to-one interviews 
with substantial amounts of interviewer assistance, whereas in the Netherlands, 
the computer aid was used as a self-completion tool in group interviews with 
lesser amounts of interviewer assistance. In total, 801 members of the general 
public (403 in England; 398 in the Netherlands) each completed five TTO 
valuations of EQ-5D-5L health states. Respondents in the Netherlands study 
showed a greater tendency to give 'round number' values such as 0 and 1 and to 
complete tasks using a minimal number of iterative steps. They also showed a 
greater tendency to skip the animated instructions that preceded the first task 
and to take into account assumptions that they were specifically asked not to 
take into account. When faced with a pair of health states in which one state 
dominated the other, respondents in the Netherlands study were more likely than 
those in the England study to give a higher value to the dominant health state. 
On the basis of these comparisons, we conclude that the one-to-one, 
interviewer-led setting is superior to the group, self-complete setting in terms 
of the quality of data generated and that the former is more suitable than the 
latter for TTO studies being used to value EQ-5D-5L.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0509-9
PMCID: PMC3728432
PMID: 23900666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. BMJ Open. 2013 Jul 30;3(7):e002768. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-002768.

Early death in those previously hospitalised for mental healthcare in Scotland: 
a nationwide cohort study, 1986-2010.

Ajetunmobi O(1), Taylor M, Stockton D, Wood R.

Author information:
(1)Information Services Division, NHS National Services Scotland, Edinburgh, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the mortality in those previously hospitalised for mental 
disorder in Scotland to that experienced by the general population.
DESIGN: Population-based historical cohort study using routinely available 
psychiatric hospital discharge and death records.
SETTING: All Scotland.
PARTICIPANTS: Individuals with a first hospital admission for mental disorder 
between 1986 and 2009 who had died by 31 December 2010 (34 243 individuals).
OUTCOMES: The main outcome measure was death from any cause, 1986-2010. Excess 
mortality was presented as standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) and years of 
life lost (YLL). Excess mortality was assessed overall and by age, sex, main 
psychiatric diagnosis, whether the psychiatric diagnosis was 'complicated' (ie, 
additional mental or physical ill-health diagnoses present), cause of death and 
time period of first admission.
RESULTS: 111 504 people were included in the study, and 34 243 had died by 31 
December 2010. The average reduction in life expectancy for the whole cohort was 
17 years, with eating disorders (39-year reduction) and 'complicated' 
personality disorders (27.5-year reduction) being worst affected. 'Natural' 
causes of death such as cardiovascular disease showed modestly elevated relative 
risk (SMR1.7), but accounted for 67% of all deaths and 54% of the total burden 
of YLL. Non-natural deaths such as suicide showed higher relative risk (SMR5.2) 
and tended to occur at a younger age, but were less common overall (11% of all 
deaths and 22% of all YLL). Having a 'complicated' diagnosis tended to elevate 
the risk of early death. No worsening of the overall excess mortality 
experienced by individuals with previous psychiatric admission over time was 
observed.
CONCLUSIONS: Early death for those hospitalised with mental disorder is common, 
and represents a significant inequality even in well-developed healthcare 
systems. Prevention of suicide and cardiovascular disease deserves particular 
attention in the mentally disordered.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-002768
PMCID: PMC3731727
PMID: 23901025


656. N Engl J Med. 2013 Aug 1;369(5):448-57. doi: 10.1056/NEJMra1201534.

Measuring the global burden of disease.

Murray CJ(1), Lopez AD.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA 98121, USA. cjlm@uw.edu

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMra1201534
PMID: 23902484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. BMC Public Health. 2013;13 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S2. doi:
10.1186/1471-2458-13-S2-S2.  Epub 2013 Jun 17.

Putting health metrics into practice: using the disability-adjusted life year 
for strategic decision making.

Longfield K(1), Smith B, Gray R, Ngamkitpaiboon L, Vielot N.

Author information:
(1)Population Services International, 1120 19th Street NW, Suite 600, 
Washington, DC 20036, USA. klongfield@psi.org

BACKGROUND: Implementing organizations are pressured to be accountable for 
performance. Many health impact metrics present limitations for priority 
setting; they do not permit comparisons across different interventions or health 
areas. In response, Population Services International (PSI) adopted the 
disability-adjusted life year (DALY) averted as its bottom-line performance 
metric. While international standards exist for calculating DALYs to determine 
burden of disease (BOD), PSI's use of DALYs averted is novel. It uses DALYs 
averted to assess and compare the health impact of its country programs, and to 
understand the effectiveness of a portfolio of interventions. This paper 
describes how the adoption of DALYs averted influenced organizational strategy 
and presents the advantages and constraints of using the metric.
METHODS: Health impact data from 2001-2011 were analyzed by program area and 
geographic region to measure PSI's performance against its goal of doubling 
health impact between 2007-2011. Analyzing 10 years of data permitted comparison 
with previous years' performance. A case study of PSI's Asia and Eastern 
European (A/EE) region, and PSI/Laos, is presented to illustrate how the 
adoption of DALYs averted affected strategic decision making.
RESULTS: Between 2007-2011, PSI's programs doubled the total number of DALYs 
averted from 2002-2006. Most DALYs averted were within malaria, followed by 
HIV/AIDS and family planning (FP). The performance of PSI's A/EE region relative 
to other regions declined with the switch to DALYs averted. As a result, the 
region made a strategic shift to align its work with countries' BOD. In 
PSI/Laos, this redirection led to better-targeted programs and an approximate 
50% gain in DALYs averted from 2009-2011.
CONCLUSIONS: PSI's adoption of DALYs averted shifted the organization's 
strategic direction away from product sales and toward BOD. Now, many strategic 
decisions are based on "BOD-relevance," the share of the BOD that interventions 
can potentially address. This switch resulted in more targeted strategies and 
greater program diversification. Challenges remain in convincing donors to 
support interventions in disease areas that are relevant to a country's BOD, and 
in developing modeling methodologies. The global health community will benefit 
from the use of standard health impact metrics to improve strategic decision 
making and more effectively respond to the changing global burden of disease.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-S2-S2
PMCID: PMC3684549
PMID: 23902655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. BMC Public Health. 2013;13 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S3. doi:
10.1186/1471-2458-13-S2-S3.  Epub 2013 Jun 17.

Modeling health impact of global health programs implemented by Population 
Services International.

Yang H(1), Duvall S, Ratcliffe A, Jeffries D, Stevens W.

Author information:
(1)Population Services International, Washington, DC, USA. hyang@psi.org

BACKGROUND: Global health implementing organizations benefit most from health 
impact estimation models that isolate the individual effects of distributed 
products and services - a feature not typically found in intervention impact 
models, but which allow comparisons across interventions and intervention 
settings. Population Services International (PSI), a social marketing 
organization, has developed a set of impact models covering seven health program 
areas, which translate product/service distribution data into impact estimates. 
Each model's primary output is the number of disability-adjusted life-years 
(DALYs) averted by an intervention within a specific country and population 
context. This paper aims to describe the structure and inputs for two types of 
DALYs averted models, considering the benefits and limitations of this 
methodology.
METHODS: PSI employs two modeling approaches for estimating health impact: a 
macro approach for most interventions and a micro approach for HIV, tuberculosis 
(TB), and behavior change communication (BCC) interventions. Within each 
intervention country context, the macro approach determines the coverage that 
one product/service unit provides a population in person-years, whereas the 
micro approach estimates an individual's risk of infection with and without the 
product/service unit. The models use these estimations to generate per unit 
DALYs averted coefficients for each intervention. When multiplied by program 
output data, these coefficients predict the total number of DALYs averted by an 
intervention in a country.
RESULTS: Model outputs are presented by country for two examples: Water 
Chlorination DALYs Averted Model, a macro model, and the HIV Condom DALYs 
Averted Model for heterosexual transmission, a micro model. Health impact 
estimates measured in DALYs averted for PSI interventions on a global level are 
also presented.
CONCLUSIONS: The DALYs averted models offer implementing organizations practical 
measurement solutions for understanding an intervention's contribution to 
improving health. These models calculate health impact estimates that reflect 
the scale and diversity of program operations and intervention settings, and 
that enable comparisons across health areas and countries. Challenges remain in 
accounting for intervention synergies, attributing impact to a single 
organization, and sourcing and updating model inputs. Nevertheless, these models 
demonstrate how DALYs averted can be viably used by the global health community 
as a metric for predicting intervention impact using standard program output 
data.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-S2-S3
PMCID: PMC3684543
PMID: 23902668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. BMC Public Health. 2013;13 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S4. doi:
10.1186/1471-2458-13-S2-S4.  Epub 2013 Jun 17.

Applying the disability-adjusted life year to track health impact of social 
franchise programs in low- and middle-income countries.

Montagu D(1), Ngamkitpaiboon L, Duvall S, Ratcliffe A.

Author information:
(1)Global Health Group, University of California San Francisco, CA, USA. 
montagud@globalhealth.ucsf.edu

BACKGROUND: Developing effective methods for measuring the health impact of 
social franchising programs is vital for demonstrating the value of this 
innovative service delivery model, particularly given its rapid expansion 
worldwide. Currently, these programs define success through patient volume and 
number of outlets, widely acknowledged as poor reflections of true program 
impact. An existing metric, the disability-adjusted life years averted (DALYs 
averted), offers promise as a measure of projected impact. Country-specific and 
service-specific, DALYs averted enables impact comparisons between programs 
operating in different contexts. This study explores the use of DALYs averted as 
a social franchise performance metric.
METHODS: Using data collected by the Social Franchising Compendia in 2010 and 
2011, we compared franchise performance, analyzing by region and program area. 
Coefficients produced by Population Services International converted each 
franchise's service delivery data into DALYs averted. For the 32 networks with 
two years of data corresponding to these metrics, a paired t-test compared all 
metrics. Finally, to test data reporting quality, we compared services provided 
to patient volume.
RESULTS: Social franchising programs grew considerably from 2010 to 2011, 
measured by services provided (215%), patient volume (31%), and impact 
(couple-years of protection (CYPs): 86% and DALYs averted: 519%), but not by the 
total number of outlets. Non-family planning services increased by 857%, with 
diversification centered in Asia and Africa. However, paired t-test comparisons 
showed no significant increase within the networks, whether categorized as 
family planning or non-family planning. The ratio of services provided to 
patient visits yielded considerable range, with one network reporting a ratio of 
16,000:1.
CONCLUSION: In theory, the DALYs averted metric is a more robust and 
comprehensive metric for social franchising than current program measures. As 
social franchising spreads beyond family planning, having a metric that captures 
the impact of a range of diverse services and allows comparisons will be 
increasingly important. However, standardizing reporting will be essential to 
make such comparisons useful. While not widespread, errors in self-reported data 
appear to have included social marketing distribution data in social franchising 
reporting, requiring clearer data collection and reporting guidelines. 
Differences noted above must be interpreted cautiously as a result.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-S2-S4
PMCID: PMC3684545
PMID: 23902679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. BMC Public Health. 2013;13 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S7. doi:
10.1186/1471-2458-13-S2-S7.  Epub 2013 Jun 17.

Answering the question: are we making a difference?

Huntington D(1).

Author information:
(1)Asia Pacific Observatory on Health Systems and Policies, World Health 
Organization, Western Pacific Regional Office, P.O. Box 2932, 1000 Manila, 
Philippines. huntingtond@wpro.who.int

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-S2-S7
PMCID: PMC3684518
PMID: 23902733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Transplantation. 2013 Nov 15;96(9):800-6. doi: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3182a0f68c.

A randomized pilot study of donor stem cell infusion in living-related kidney 
transplant recipients receiving alemtuzumab.

Ciancio G(1), Sageshima J, Akpinar E, Gaynor JJ, Chen L, Zarak A, Hanson L, 
Tueros L, Guerra G, Mattiazzi A, Kupin W, Roth D, Ricordi C, Burke GW 3rd.

Author information:
(1)1 The Lillian Jean Kaplan Renal Transplant Center of the Division of 
Transplantation, Department of Surgery, University of Miami Leonard M. Miller 
School of Medicine, Miami, FL. 2 Division of Nephrology and Hypertension, 
Department of Medicine, University of Miami Leonard M. Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL. 3 Diabetes Research Institute, University of Miami Leonard 
M. Miller School of Medicine, Miami, FL. 4 Address correspondence to: Dr. 
Gaetano Ciancio, 1801 NW 9th Avenue, Miami, FL 33136.

BACKGROUND: Transplant tolerance would remove the need for maintenance 
immunosuppression while improving survival and quality of life.
METHODS: A prospective, randomized pilot study was undertaken to assess the 
safety and efficacy of donor stem cell infusion (DSCI) in living-related kidney 
transplant recipients treated with alemtuzumab (C1H) induction and tacrolimus 
and mycophenolate maintenance with switch to sirolimus and weaning over 2 years.
RESULTS: Four patients received DSCI; five patients were controls. Graft failure 
occurred in two patients in the DSCI arm. Recurrence of glomerular disease 
occurred in two DSCI recipients, leading to graft loss in one. Biopsy-proven 
acute rejection episodes occurred in three patients (two in the DSCI vs. one in 
the control). One DSCI patient, with recurrence, subsequently developed 
antibody-mediated rejection leading to graft failure. In the remaining two DSCI 
patients, weaning was attempted but was not successful. All (4 of 4) DSCI 
patients had biopsy-proven chronic allograft injury and/or recurrence.
CONCLUSION: DSCI with C1H induction and a steroid-free maintenance regimen in a 
small group of patients failed to induce tolerance, with suboptimal patient and 
graft survival. The results do not justify extension of this particular trial 
and underscore the importance of patient selection, specifically avoidance of 
patients with glomerulopathies whose recurrence may obscure potential benefit.

DOI: 10.1097/TP.0b013e3182a0f68c
PMCID: PMC3818358
PMID: 23903014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors declare no 
other funding or conflicts of interest.


662. Sao Paulo Med J. 2013;131(3):198-204. doi: 10.1590/1516-3180.2013.1313460.

Indolent systemic mastocytosis limited to the bone: a case report and review of 
the literature.

Pinto-Lopes P(1), Fonseca FA, Silva R, Hafe Pv, Fonseca E.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine of the University of Porto, Portugal. 
pedro.lopes.md@gmail.com

CONTEXT Systemic mastocytosis is defined as a clonal disorder of mast cells and 
their precursor cells and is currently classified as a myeloproliferative 
neoplasm. Its clinical course has a wide spectrum, ranging from indolent 
disease, with normal life expectancy, to highly aggressive disease, associated 
with multisystemic involvement and poor overall survival. The aim of this study 
was to report a case of indolent systemic mastocytosis, focusing on the 
diagnostic challenges, with a review of the literature. CASE REPORT A 
79-year-old Caucasian woman with osteoporosis was evaluated at the Emergency 
Department because of complaints of low back pain. Before this, she had 
consulted an orthopedist and had undergone some imaging examinations, namely a 
bone scan that revealed a "superscan" pattern. Due to her pain complaints and 
these test results, the patient was admitted to the Department of Internal 
Medicine. After undergoing several analytical tests and some additional imaging 
examinations to rule out some important differential diagnoses, she then 
underwent bone marrow biopsy, which made it possible to identify indolent 
systemic mastocytosis. CONCLUSION Systemic mastocytosis is a rare entity that is 
difficult to diagnose. Its symptoms are often unspecific and frequently ignored. 
Skeletal changes may be the first and only manifestation of the disease and in 
some cases, like this one, the diagnosis is made only after histological 
examination. The key point for the diagnosis is to contemplate the possibility 
of systemic mastocytosis.

DOI: 10.1590/1516-3180.2013.1313460
PMID: 23903270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Int Urogynecol J. 2014 Feb;25(2):227-33. doi: 10.1007/s00192-013-2180-1.
Epub  2013 Aug 1.

Is antibiotic prophylaxis necessary before midurethral sling procedures for 
female stress incontinence? A decision analysis.

Shepherd JP(1), Jones KA, Harmanli O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology and Reproductive Sciences, Division of 
Female Pelvic Medicine and Reconstructive Surgery, University of Pittsburgh 
Medical Center, 300 Halket Street, Pittsburgh, PA, 15213, USA, 
dr.jon.shepherd@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION AND HYPOTHESIS: A recent randomized controlled trial (RCT) with and 
without prophylactic antibiotics (pABX) for midurethral slings (MUS) was 
terminated early owing to lower than predicted infectious complications in both 
groups. Adequate power required an unattainable sample size. Because of low 
infectious risks, omitting pABX may be justified. Since an RCT was not feasible, 
we aimed to use decision analysis modeling to determine if pABX are necessary 
for MUS.
METHODS: We created a decision analysis model comparing 1-year quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs) between women who do and do not receive pABX for MUS. The 
model included complications that might differ depending on whether antibiotics 
were given, such as allergic reaction to pABX (mild/severe), vulvovaginal 
candidiasis, urinary tract infections including pyelonephritis, pseudomembranous 
colitis, wound infection, and mesh erosion. Multiple one-way sensitivity 
analyses confirmed model robustness.
RESULTS: One year after MUS, women who did not receive pABX had higher average 
QALYs than pABX (0.989 vs 0.977). This difference is less than published 
minimally important differences (MID) for utilities, suggesting that the 
strategies are comparable. Ultimately, pABX increased some complications and 
reduced others with an overall minimal effect on outcomes. Very few thresholds 
were identified, indicating model robustness and strengthening our conclusions.
CONCLUSIONS: Women had slightly higher overall QALY when pABX were not given, 
but not greater than the MID. Since infectious complications are rare, our model 
suggests that pABX might be an unnecessary precaution because of similar 
outcomes with and without pABX.

DOI: 10.1007/s00192-013-2180-1
PMID: 23903818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Clin Res Cardiol. 2013 Dec;102(12):875-84. doi: 10.1007/s00392-013-0601-2.
Epub  2013 Aug 2.

Cost-effectiveness of 7-day-Holter monitoring alone or in combination with 
transthoracic echocardiography in patients with cerebral ischemia.

Mayer F(1), Stahrenberg R, Gröschel K, Mostardt S, Biermann J, Edelmann F, Liman 
J, Wasem J, Goehler A, Wachter R, Neumann A.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Care Management and Research, University of 
Duisburg-Essen, Campus Essen, Schützenbahn 70, 45127, Essen, Germany, 
fel_mayer@web.de.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Prolonged Holter monitoring of patients with cerebral 
ischemia increases the detection rate of paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF); 
this leads to improved antithrombotic regimens aimed at preventing recurrent 
ischemic strokes. The aim of this study was to compare a 7-day-Holter monitoring 
(7-d-Holter) alone or in combination with prior selection via transthoracic 
echocardiography (TTE) to a standard 24-h-Holter using a cost-utility analysis.
METHODS: Lifetime cost, quality-adjusted life years (QALY), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) were estimated for a cohort of patients with 
acute cerebral ischemia and no contraindication to oral anticoagulation. A 
Markov model was developed to simulate the long-term course and progression of 
cerebral ischemia considering the different diagnostic algorithms (24-h-Holter, 
7-d-Holter, 7-d-Holter after preselection by TTE). Clinical data for these 
algorithms were derived from the prospective observational Find-AF study (ISRCTN 
46104198).
RESULTS: Predicted lifelong discounted costs were 33,837 <euro> for patients 
diagnosed by the 7-d-Holter and 33,852 <euro> by the standard 24-h-Holter. 
Cumulated QALYs were 3.868 for the 7-d-Holter compared to 3.844 for the 
24-h-Holter. The 7-d-Holter dominated the 24-h-Holter in the base-case scenario 
and remained cost-effective in extensive sensitivity analysis of key input 
parameter with a maximum of 8,354 <euro>/QALY gained. Preselecting patients for 
the 7-d-Holter had no positive effect on the cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: A 7-d-Holter to detect PAF in patients with cerebral ischemia is 
cost-effective. It increases the detection which leads to improved 
antithrombotic regimens; therefore, it avoids recurrent strokes, saves future 
costs, and decreases quality of life impairment. Preselecting patients by TTE 
does not improve cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-013-0601-2
PMCID: PMC3826055
PMID: 23904073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Demography. 2013 Dec;50(6):2037-51. doi: 10.1007/s13524-013-0232-2.

Extending the Lee-carter method to model the rotation of age patterns of 
mortality decline for long-term projections.

Li N(1), Lee R, Gerland P.

Author information:
(1)Population Division, United Nations, 2 UN Plaza-DC2-1914, New York, NY, 
10017, USA, li32@un.org.

In developed countries, mortality decline is decelerating at younger ages and 
accelerating at old ages, a phenomenon we call "rotation." We expect that this 
rotation will also occur in developing countries as they attain high life 
expectancies. But the rotation is subtle and has proved difficult to handle in 
mortality models that include all age groups. Without taking it into account, 
however, long-term mortality projections will produce questionable results. We 
simplify the problem by focusing on the relative magnitude of death rates at two 
ages (0 and 15-19) while making assumptions about changes in rates of decline at 
other ages. We extend the Lee-Carter method to incorporate this subtle rotation 
in projection. We suggest that the extended Lee-Carter method could provide 
plausible projections of the age pattern of mortality for populations, including 
those that currently have very high life expectancies. Detailed examples are 
given using data from Japan and the United States.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-013-0232-2
PMCID: PMC4550589
PMID: 23904392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. J Food Sci Technol. 2012 Aug;49(4):415-26. doi: 10.1007/s13197-011-0289-0.
Epub  2011 Feb 6.

Effect of post-harvest calcium chloride dip treatment and gamma irradiation on 
storage quality and shelf-life extension of Red delicious apple.

Hussain PR(1), Meena RS, Dar MA, Wani AM.

Author information:
(1)Nuclear Research Laboratory, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Zakura Srinagar, 
190006 India.

Freshly harvested Red delicious apples were dipped in calcium chloride solution 
of varying concentrations (0.5-2.0% w/v) for 1 h prior to irradiation at dose 
level of 0.4 kGy. Fruits after radiation treatment were stored at 2 ± 1°C, RH 
90% and evaluated at intervals of 30 days for various quality parameters. 
Results revealed significant (p ≤ 0.05) retention in firmness, juice yield and 
ascorbic acid content in samples treated with combination of calcium chloride at 
2.0% w/v and gamma irradiation (0.4 kGy) during storage. Water soluble pectin 
was inversely correlated with firmness (r = 0.88) and was significantly 
(p ≤ 0.05) lower in samples subjected to combination treatment of 2.0% w/v CaCl2 
and 0.4 kGy irradiation throughout the storage. The combination treatment of 
2.0% CaCl2 and 0.4 kGy irradiation gave about 4.3 log reduction in yeast and 
mold count of apple samples. Results of the post refrigeration weight loss, 
firmness and overall acceptability revealed that combination treatment was 
helpful in extending the shelf-life of Red Delicious apples by around 20-25 days 
at 17 ± 2°C, RH 75% following 90 days of refrigeration.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-011-0289-0
PMCID: PMC3550893
PMID: 23904650


667. Indian J Surg. 2012 Aug;74(4):298-300. doi: 10.1007/s12262-011-0364-9. Epub
2011  Nov 23.

Does squatting worsen lower limb ischemia in patients with peripheral arterial 
disease?

Raghavendra GK(1).

Author information:
(1)Wansbeck General Hospital, Ashington, NE63 9JJ United Kingdom.

Peripheral arterial disease (PAD) is an important cause of morbidity and 
mortality in the world affecting up to 20% in people over 70 years of age. The 
prevalence is increasing in India due to combined effects of increased life 
expectancy, increased tobacco smoking and increased prevalence of diabetes 
mellitus. The aim of the study was to examine the hypothesis whether squatting 
posture reduces blood flow to lower limbs resulting in worsening of symptoms of 
lower limb ischemia in patients with PAD. 10 patients with arterial disorders 
due to thromboangiitis obliterans (TAO), atherosclerosis and diabetic macro 
vascular disease were selected for patients and were compared with 10 healthy 
volunteers as controls. Clinical examination and duplex scan of posterior tibial 
artery (PTA) and dorsalis pedis artery (DPA) performed in standing and squatting 
position in a clinical environment. They were asked about symptoms of numbness, 
ischemic pain and the results were noted. Results were tabulated and analysed 
using Microsoft Excel®. Members in the control group complained of numbness of 
both the limbs after a period of 30 min on an average. In the patients group, 
members while squatting complained of numbness in the involved limb within 
5 min. They complained of ischemic pain in the involved limb within 10 min and 
developed numbness in the opposite limb in within 15 min. Posterior tibial 
artery and dorsalis pedis artery pulsations disappeared for the entire duration 
of squatting in both groups as confirmed by duplex scanning. It may be 
recommended that patients with established peripheral vascular disease should 
avoid squatting position, even if it is for a very short period of time. It is 
desirable to advice such patients to use appropriate structures as supports 
which will allow them to work without squatting. This may also necessitate a 
change in occupation.

DOI: 10.1007/s12262-011-0364-9
PMCID: PMC3444600
PMID: 23904717


668. J Med Life. 2013 Jun 15;6(2):131-9. Epub 2013 Jun 25.

Burnei's "double X" internal fixation technique for supracondylar humerus 
fractures in children: indications, technique, advantages and alternative 
interventions : Study and Research Group in Pediatric Orthopaedics-2012.

Georgescu I(1), Gavriliu S, Pârvan A, Martiniuc A, Japie E, Ghiță R, Drăghici I, 
Hamei Ş, Ţiripa I, El Nayef T, Dan D.

Author information:
(1)Maria Sklodowska Curie Emergency Hospital for Children, Bucharest, Romania. 
ileana222@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: The Study and Research Group in Pediatric Orthopedics-2012 initated 
this retrospective study due to the fact that in Romania and in other countries, 
the numerous procedures do not ensure the physicians a definite point of view 
related to the therapeutic criteria in the treatment of supracondylar fractures. 
That is why the number of complications and their severity brought into notice 
these existent deficiencies. In order to correct some of these complications, 
cubitus varus or valgus, Prof. Al. Pesamosca communicated a paper called 
"Personal procedure in the treatment of posttraumatic cubitus varus" at the 
County Conference from Bacău, in June 24, 1978. This procedure has next been 
made popular by Prof. Gh. Burnei and his coworkers by operating patients with 
cubitus varus or valgus due to supracondylar humeral fractures and by presenting 
papers related to the subject at the national and international congresses. The 
latest paper regarding this problem has been presented at the 29th Annual 
Meeting of the European Pediatric Orthopedic Society in Zagreb, Croatia, April 
7-10, 2010, being titled "Distal humeral Z-osteotomy for posttraumatic cubitus 
varus or valgus", having as authors Gh. Burnei, Ileana Georgescu, Ştefan 
Gavriliu, Costel Vlad and Daniela Dan. As members of this group, based on the 
performed studies, we wish to make popular this type of osteosynthesis, which 
ensures a tight fixation, avoids complications and allows a rapid postoperative 
activity.
INTRODUCTION: The acknowledged treatment for these types of fractures is the 
orthopedic one and it must be accomplished as soon as possible, in the first 6 
hours, by reduction and cast immobilization or by closed or open reduction and 
fixation, using one of the several methods (Judet, Boehler, Kapandji, San 
Antonio, San Diego, Burnei's double X technique). The exposed treatment is 
indicated in irreducible supracondylar humeral fractures, in reducible, but 
unstable type, in polytraumatized patients with supracondylar fractures, in 
supracondylar fractures with vascular injury, in late presenting fractures, in 
case of loss of reduction under cast immobilization or in case of surgery with 
other types of fixation that is deteriorated. We have been using Burnei's 
osteosynthesis for about 10 years.
AIM: This paper aims to present the operative technique, its results and 
advantages.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 56 cases were treated with Burnei's "double X" 
osteosynthesis in "Alexandru Pesamosca" Surgery Clinics, from 2001 to 2011. We 
used the Kocher approach and the aim of surgery was to obtain a fixation that 
does not require cast immobilization and that allows motion 24 hours after the 
surgery. The wires placed in "double X" must not occupy the olecranon fossa. The 
reduction must be anatomical and the olecranon fossa free. Flexion and extension 
of the elbow must be in normal range after surgery without crackles or 
limitations. This surgery was performed on patients with: Loss of reduction 
after 10 days with cast immobilization; Surgery with other types of fixation, 
deteriorated; Polytraumatized patients with supracondylar fracture; After 
neglected or late presenting fractures, without the orthopedic reduction made in 
emergency; Fractures with edema and blistering.
RESULTS AND COMPLICATIONS: The patients' ages ranged 3 to12 years old, the mean 
age for girls was 7,3 years and 6,8 for boys. The hospitalization ranged 3 to 7 
days, the average period being of 5 days. The wires had been pulled out after 21 
days. The total recovery of the flexion and extension motion of the elbow was, 
depending on the age, between 21 and 40 days with an average period of 30 days. 
There were 5 cases of minor complications: in 3 cases the wires migrated 
outwards up to the 10th day and in 2 cases the wires were found in the olecranon 
fossa. The CT exam highlighted the impingement effect and the wire that passed 
through the olecranon fossa had to be removed between the 7th and the 9th day. 
No reported cases of cubitus varus or valgus were reported.
CONCLUSION: The Burnei's "double X" osteosynthesis does not require cast 
immobilization. In oblique fractures, the stability is more difficult to obtain 
and by using other methods, elbow stiffness or ulnar nerve palsy may appear. The 
Burnei's "double X" osteosynthesis ensures stability of these types of fractures 
and avoids complications. This technique allows early motion after surgery and, 
in case of polytrauma, ensures comfort both to the patient and the physician, 
allowing repetitive examinations, preferential positions or the nursing of the 
extensive skin lesions.

PMCID: PMC3725436
PMID: 23904871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Curr Vasc Pharmacol. 2014 Jan;12(1):47-54. doi:
10.2174/15701611113119990143.

Renal nerve ablation for hypertensive patients with chronic kidney disease.

Papademetriou V, Doumas M, Anyfanti P, Faselis C, Kokkinos P, Tsioufis C(1).

Author information:
(1)VA Medical Center, 50 Irving Street, NW, Washington, DC 20422. 
vpapademetriou@va.gov.

Among current epidemics, chronic kidney disease (CKD) is accompanied with high 
morbidity and mortality rates inherently associated with the thriving 
comorbidities of hypertension and cardiovascular disease. In this mutually 
reinforcing triad, adequate control of high blood pressure emerges as extremely 
important for decreasing patients' complication rates and prolonging life 
expectancy. However, hypertension control in this particular group of patients 
is often proven an arduous task, presenting high rates of resistance. 
Sympathetic nervous system (SNS) overactivity is implicated not only in the 
pathophysiological basis of difficult-to-treat hypertension, but also in the 
development and progression of renal disease, thus rendering SNS a prime 
therapeutic target in CKD. As renal nerve ablation (RNA) is finding its place 
among other invasive procedures in the cardiovascular arena, the potential 
therapeutic impact of this innovative treatment modality is gradually expanding 
from resistant hypertension to other high blood pressure-related clinical 
conditions like CKD. Encouraging results of clinical trials testing efficacy and 
safety of renal nerve ablation in resistant hypertensives provide the 
opportunity to apply the procedure in other subgroups of hypertensive patients. 
Available data regarding renal function of study participants suggest the safe 
implementation of RNA in patients with renal disease, but both unexplored 
benefits as well as potential hazards should be taken into account and 
critically evaluated. While renal denervation has been tested in selected cases 
of patients with renal disease, the results of large, multicenter trials 
evaluating the effects of this procedure on large cohorts of patients with CKD 
are eagerly anticipated.

DOI: 10.2174/15701611113119990143
PMID: 23905594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Disasters. 2013 Jul;37 Suppl 1:S105-20. doi: 10.1111/disa.12015.

Cost-effectiveness of caesarean sections in a post-conflict environment: a case 
study of Bunia, Democratic Republic of the Congo.

Deboutte D(1), O'Dempsey T, Mann G, Faragher B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Tropical Medicine, Liverpool School of Tropical 
Medicine, Pembroke Place, Liverpool, United Kingdom. deboutted@gmail.com

This paper demonstrates the feasibility of health services research in an 
unstable environment during the transition from crisis to development and its 
importance for future planning. Effectiveness and the cost of caesarean sections 
(CSs) were investigated in Bunia, a town affected by conflict and insecurity, in 
the Democratic Republic of the Congo (DRC) in 2008. The CS rate was 9.7 per cent 
of expected deliveries. All CSs in the study sample were emergency procedures. A 
humanitarian non-governmental organisation (NGO) hospital, offering free 
services, performed 75 per cent of all CSs. The estimated provider cost for CS 
in 2008 at this hospital was USD 103,514 (that is, USD 144 per CS). With a cost 
of between USD 3.8 and 9.2 per year of health adjusted life expectancy (HALE) 
gained, CSs at the NGO hospital were very cost-effective. The estimates give an 
indication of funding requirements to maintain adequate access to CS after the 
departure of the humanitarian organisation.

© 2013 The Author(s). Journal compilation © Overseas Development Institute, 
2013.

DOI: 10.1111/disa.12015
PMID: 23905763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. BMJ. 2013 Aug 1;347:f4871. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f4871.

Estimates of survival from incurable prostate cancer need to be revised upwards.

Kmietowicz Z.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f4871
PMID: 23906591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. J Vasc Interv Radiol. 2013 Oct;24(10):1521-8.e4. doi: 
10.1016/j.jvir.2013.05.065. Epub 2013 Jul 30.

Intra-arterial infusion chemotherapy for advanced non-small-cell lung cancer: 
preliminary experience on the safety, efficacy, and clinical outcomes.

Yuan Z(1), Li WT, Ye XD, Dong S, Peng WJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Shanghai Cancer Hospital, Fudan University, 270 Dong 
An Rd., Shanghai 200032, People's Republic of China; Department of Radiology, 
Nanjing Jinling Hospital, Clinical School of Medical College, Nanjing 
University, Nanjing, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
yuanzheng0404@163.com.

PURPOSE: To investigate the effectiveness and toxicity of intra-arterial 
infusion chemotherapy as a therapeutic modality for advanced non-small-cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In a retrospective study, 40 patients with stage III 
NSCLC received intra-arterial infusion chemotherapy with gemcitabine and 
cisplatin. Tumor staining was graded based on angiography, and the number of 
NSCLC feeding arteries detected was recorded. Toxicity was assessed according to 
National Cancer Institute Common Toxicity Criteria for Adverse Events. The 
response to treatment was evaluated per Response Evaluation Criteria In Solid 
Tumors (RECIST). Efficacy was assessed based on time to tumor progression (TTP), 
and survival was estimated by Kaplan-Meier analysis. Prognostic factors 
influencing TTP and overall survival rate were evaluated by Cox regression 
analysis.
RESULTS: The most frequent drug-related adverse events were cough (n = 17; 
42.5%), anorexia (n = 14; 35%), and pain (n = 9; 22.5%). Evaluated per RECIST, a 
total of 47.5% of patients (n = 19) exhibited response to therapy after 
completion of the first three cycles of intra-arterial infusion chemotherapy. 
The median TTP was 5 months. Patients had a median life expectancy of 9 months. 
By Cox regression analysis, tumor staining was shown to be an independent 
prognostic factor for TTP (relative risk, 0.405; 95% confidence interval, 
0.216-0.760) and overall survival (relative risk, 0.348; 95% confidence 
interval, 0.185-0.656).
CONCLUSIONS: Intra-arterial infusion chemotherapy for advanced lung cancer has 
the potential to reduce the size of tumors and has no severe adverse effects.

© SIR, 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvir.2013.05.065
PMID: 23906798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Ann Biomed Eng. 2013 Dec;41(12):2575-87. doi: 10.1007/s10439-013-0879-2.
Epub  2013 Aug 2.

The impact of MRI-based inflow for the hemodynamic evaluation of aortic 
coarctation.

Goubergrits L(1), Mevert R, Yevtushenko P, Schaller J, Kertzscher U, Meier S, 
Schubert S, Riesenkampff E, Kuehne T.

Author information:
(1)Biofluid Mechanics Laboratory, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Thielallee 
73, 14195, Berlin, Germany, leonid.goubergrits@charite.de.

Aortic coarctation (CoA) accounting for 3-11% of congenital heart disease can be 
successfully treated. Long-term results, however, have revealed decreased life 
expectancy associated with abnormal hemodynamics. Accordingly, an assessment of 
hemodynamics is the key factor in treatment decisions and successful long-term 
results. In this study, 3D angiography whole heart (3DWH) and 4D phase-contrast 
magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) data were acquired. Geometries of the thoracic 
aorta with CoAs were reconstructed using ZIB-Amira software. X-ray angiograms 
were used to evaluate the post-treatment geometry. Computational fluid dynamics 
models in three patients were created to simulate pre- and post-treatment 
situations using the FLUENT program. The aim of the study was to investigate the 
impact of the inlet velocity profile (plug vs. MRI-based) with a focus on the 
peak systole pressure gradient and wall shear stress (WSS). Results show that 
helical flow at the aorta inlet can significantly affect the assessment of 
pressure drop and WSS. Simplified plug inlet velocity profiles significantly (p 
< 0.05) overestimate the pressure drop in pre- and post-treatment geometries and 
significantly (p < 0.05) underestimate surface-averaged WSS. We conclude that 
the use of the physiologically correct but time-expensive 4D MRI-based in vivo 
velocity profile in CFD studies may be an important step towards a 
patient-specific analysis of CoA hemodynamics.

DOI: 10.1007/s10439-013-0879-2
PMID: 23907337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. Rheumatol Int. 2013 Dec;33(12):2993-7. doi: 10.1007/s00296-013-2834-9. Epub
2013  Aug 2.

Cost-effectiveness of biological therapy compared with methotrexate in the 
treatment for rheumatoid arthritis in Colombia.

Valle-Mercado C(1), Cubides MF, Parra-Torrado M, Rosselli D.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Economics, Universidad de los Andes, Bogotá, Colombia, 
carovam87@gmail.com.

The objectives of the study are to develop a cost-effectiveness model comparing 
biological therapy (BT) with methotrexate (MTX) alone, in the treatment for 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA), combining clinical and quality-of-life data from 
international trials with local costs and local epidemiological data. We 
designed a six-month cycle Markov model with five functional states, based on 
Health Assessment Questionnaire, with patients initiating treatment in any of 
the predefined states, based on a sample of 150 local RA patients. Simulations 
ran for 10 and 20 years, and for the whole life span. Utilities, in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY), were taken from international literature. 
Discount rate was 3 % for costs and utilities. We calculated direct and indirect 
costs using a combination of international and local data. Results are presented 
as incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER). ICERs in euros per QALY were 
<euro>143,072 for 10 years; <euro>139,332 for 20 years; and <euro>137,712 for 
the whole life span. Total costs with MTX were lower than with BT, despite 
higher out of pocket, productivity, and complication costs. Under conventional 
thresholds, and for the "average" RA patient, BT would not be cost-effective in 
Colombia. BT compared to MTX provides more QALYs, but at a high cost. When ICERs 
were estimated for Colombia, BT would not be cost-effective. We propose 
different thresholds for different conditions, perhaps prioritizing chronic 
diseases that lead to disability.

DOI: 10.1007/s00296-013-2834-9
PMID: 23907586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


675. Qual Life Res. 2014 Apr;23(3):771-89. doi: 10.1007/s11136-013-0482-x. Epub
2013  Aug 2.

Considering quality of life for children with cancer: a systematic review of 
patient-reported outcome measures and the development of a conceptual model.

Anthony SJ(1), Selkirk E, Sung L, Klaassen RJ, Dix D, Scheinemann K, Klassen AF.

Author information:
(1)McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada, samantha.anthony@sickkids.ca.

OBJECTIVES: An appraisal of pediatric cancer-specific quality-of-life (QOL) 
instruments revealed a lack of clarity about what constitutes QOL in this 
population. This study addresses this concern by identifying the concepts that 
underpin the construct of QOL as determined by a content analysis of all 
patient-reported outcome (PRO) instruments used in childhood cancer research.
METHODS: A systematic review was performed of key databases (i.e., MEDLINE, 
CINAHL, PsychINFO) to identify studies of QOL in children with cancer. A content 
analysis process was used to code and categorize all items from generic and 
cancer-specified PRO instruments. Our objective was to provide clarification 
regarding the conceptual underpinnings of these instruments, as well as to help 
inform the development of theory and contribute to building a conceptual 
framework of QOL for children with cancer.
RESULTS: A total of 6,013 English language articles were screened, identifying 
148 studies. Ten generic and ten cancer-specific PRO instruments provided 957 
items. Content analysis led to the identification of four major domains of QOL 
(physical, psychological, social, and general health), with 11 subdomains 
covering 98 different concepts. While all instruments reflected items relating 
to the broader domains of QOL, there was substantial heterogeneity in terms of 
the content and variability in the distribution of items.
CONCLUSIONS: This systematic review and the proposed model represent a useful 
starting point in the critical appraisal of the conceptual underpinnings of PRO 
instruments used in pediatric oncology and contribute to the need to place such 
tools under a critical, yet reflective and analytical lens.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-013-0482-x
PMID: 23907613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. Am J Ind Med. 2013 Sep;56(9):993-1000. doi: 10.1002/ajim.22206. Epub 2013
Jun  12.

Potential years of life lost (PYLL) caused by asbestos-related diseases in the 
world.

Diandini R(1), Takahashi K, Park EK, Jiang Y, Movahed M, Le GV, Lee LJ, 
Delgermaa V, Kim R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Epidemiology, Institute of Industrial Ecological 
Sciences, University of Occupational and Environmental Health, Kitakyushu City, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: We applied the well-established, but rather under-utilized, 
indicator of Potential Years of Life Lost (PYLL) to estimate the global burden 
of mesothelioma and asbestosis.
METHODS: We analyzed all deaths caused by mesothelioma and asbestosis that were 
reported by 82 and 55 countries, respectively, to the World Health Organization 
(WHO) from 1994 to 2010.
RESULTS: The 128,015 and 13,885 persons who died of mesothelioma and asbestosis, 
potentially lost a total of 2.18 million and 180,000 years of life (PYLL), or, 
an annual average PYLL of 201,000 years and 17,000 years, respectively. The 
average PYLL per decedent were 17.0 and 13.0 years for mesothelioma and 
asbestosis, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The current burden of asbestos-related diseases (ARDs) in terms of 
PYLL is substantial. The future burden of ARDs can be eliminated by stopping the 
use of asbestos.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.22206
PMID: 23907860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Food Sci Technol Int. 2014 Oct;20(7):527-41. doi: 10.1177/1082013213496093.
Epub  2013 Aug 1.

Application of high pressure processing for shelf life extension of litchi 
fruits (Litchi chinensis cv. Bombai) during refrigerated storage.

Kaushik N(1), Kaur BP(2), Rao PS(2).

Author information:
(1)Agricultural and Food Engineering Department, Indian Institute of Technology 
Kharagpur, West Bengal, India neelimakaushik21@gmail.com.
(2)Agricultural and Food Engineering Department, Indian Institute of Technology 
Kharagpur, West Bengal, India.

This study attempts to report the effect of high pressure processing (100, 200 
and 300 MPa for 5, 10 and 15 min at 27 ± 2 ℃) on quality and shelf life 
extension of 'Bombai' variety peeled litchi fruits during refrigerated storage 
(5 ℃). High pressure processing significantly increased total colour difference, 
browning index, drip loss and total soluble solids, whereas pH decreased after 
processing. Also, ascorbic acid content significantly decreased after high 
pressure processing and retention of 83.5% was observed. Texture profile 
analysis showed that pressurization significantly affected firmness and 
increased cohesiveness, gumminess, springiness and chewiness of litchi fruits. 
Pressure-induced firming effect was observed at 100 and 200 MPa pressure. A 
maximum of 3.29, 3.24 and 3.77 log10 cycles reduction in aerobic mesophiles, 
yeast & mold and psychrotrophs count, respectively, was achieved after 
pressurization of 300 MPa for 10 and 15 min treatments. During storage, samples 
treated at 300 MPa for 10 and 15 min showed relatively minimal changes in 
physico-chemical attributes, textural parameters and maintained lower viable 
microbial counts. Treatments at 300 MPa for 10 min and 15 min were found to 
enhance the shelf life of litchi fruits up to 32 days as compared to 12 days of 
untreated during refrigerated storage (5 ℃).

© The Author(s) 2013 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/1082013213496093
PMID: 23908391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Postgrad Med J. 2013 Oct;89(1056):584-90. doi:
10.1136/postgradmedj-2012-131406.  Epub 2013 Aug 1.

The role of peritoneal dialysis in modern renal replacement therapy.

Goodlad C(1), Brown E.

Author information:
(1)Renal Department, Royal London Hospital, , London, UK.

Most patients starting dialysis can choose between peritoneal dialysis and 
haemodialysis. There is little evidence proving that one form of dialysis is 
better than the other; although there may be an early advantage to peritoneal 
dialysis (PD) in young patients with residual function this effect is 
