Medical Centre Utrecht (the Netherlands). One-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Comparing the continuous-flow HeartMate II with OMT, 3.23 (95 percent 
confidence interval [CI], 2.18-4.49) life-years were gained (LYG) or 2.83 (95 
percent CI, 1.91-3.90) quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). The cost of an LVAD 
implant was approximately €126,000, of which the device itself represented the 
largest cost, being €70,000. Total incremental costs amounted to €299,100 (95 
percent CI, 190,500-521,000). This resulted in an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of €94,100 (95 percent CI, 59,100-160,100) per LYG or €107,600 (95 percent 
CI, 66,700-181,100) per QALY. Sensitivity analyses showed these results were 
robust.
CONCLUSIONS: Although LVAD destination therapy improves survival and quality of 
life, it remains a relatively expensive intervention which renders the 
reimbursement of this therapy questionable.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462313000238
PMID: 23763844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2013 Jul;23(3):198-205. doi: 
10.1016/j.semradonc.2013.01.007.

Management of prostate cancer in elderly men.

Bian SX(1), Hoffman KE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, The University of Texas, MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Elderly men comprise a large percentage of men diagnosed with prostate cancer 
(PrCa). Although localized PrCa is often indolent, older men tend to be 
diagnosed with higher-stage disease and are more likely to die from PrCa than 
younger men. Multiple factors other than age play an important role in 
determining who will benefit from active treatment, such as comorbid conditions, 
life expectancy, and tumor characteristics. Careful consideration of such 
factors can help prevent the overtreatment of elderly men with low-risk disease 
and undertreatment of elderly men with high-risk disease. Management decisions 
should be individualized by weighing the benefits of treatment against potential 
risks and side effects pertinent to the elderly population, whether evaluating 
for surgery, radiation, or androgen deprivation.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semradonc.2013.01.007
PMID: 23763886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Semin Radiat Oncol. 2013 Jul;23(3):222-34. doi:
10.1016/j.semradonc.2013.01.006.

Cancer control and complications of salvage local therapy after failure of 
radiotherapy for prostate cancer: a systematic review.

Parekh A(1), Graham PL, Nguyen PL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer 
Center, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

The National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines currently endorse salvage 
local therapy as a reasonable alternative to observation or androgen-deprivation 
therapy for select men with a biopsy-proven local recurrence after definitive 
radiation for prostate cancer. Patients being considered for salvage therapy 
should have had localized disease at presentation, a prostate-specific antigen < 
10 at recurrence, a life expectancy >10 years at recurrence, and a negative 
metastatic workup. In this systematic review, we synthesize the current 
literature describing the oncologic efficacy and toxicity profile of salvage 
brachytherapy, prostatectomy, cryotherapy, and high-intensity focused 
ultrasound. We found 5-year biochemical control rates to be similar across 
treatments, in the range of 52%-56%, although patient selection and definition 
of failure was variable. Toxicity profiles were also distinct between local 
salvage modalities.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.semradonc.2013.01.006
PMID: 23763889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Biomaterials. 2013 Sep;34(28):6539-47. doi:
10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.05.044.  Epub 2013 Jun 10.

Laminin-111-derived peptide-hyaluronate hydrogels as a synthetic basement 
membrane.

Yamada Y(1), Hozumi K, Katagiri F, Kikkawa Y, Nomizu M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, Tokyo University of 
Pharmacy and Life Sciences, Hachioji, Tokyo 192-0392, Japan.

We have identified a number of cell-adhesive peptides from laminins, a major 
component of basement membranes. Cell-adhesive peptides derived from basement 
membrane proteins are potential candidates for incorporating cell-binding 
activities into scaffold materials for tissue engineering. Our goal is 
development of a chemically synthetic basement membrane using laminin-derived 
cell-adhesive peptides and polymeric materials. In this study, we used 
hyaluronic acid (HA) as a scaffold material and laminin-derived cell-adhesive 
peptides, A99 (AGTFALRGDNPQG, binds to integrin αvβ3), AG73 (RKRLQVQLSIRT, binds 
to syndecans), and an A99/AG73 mixture (molar ratio = 9:1) conjugated to 
two-dimensional (2D) HA matrices. As a result, it was found that the 2D 
A99/AG73-HA matrices have strong biological functions, such as cell attachment, 
cell spreading, and neurite outgrowth, similar to that of basement membrane 
extract (BME)-coated plates. Next, we developed three-dimensional (3D) 
peptide-HA matrices using the A99/AG73 mixture. The 3D A99/AG73-HA matrices 
promoted cell spreading and improved cell viability and collagen gene 
expression. Further, PC12 neurite extension was observed in the 3D A99/AG73-HA 
matrices. These biological activities of the 3D A99/AG73-HA matrices were 
similar to those of the 3D BME matrices. These results suggest that the 
peptide-HA matrices are useful as 2D and 3D matrices and can be applied for 
tissue engineering as a synthetic basement membrane.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.05.044
PMID: 23764113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Eur J Endocrinol. 2013 Aug 28;169(3):349-57. doi: 10.1530/EJE-13-0224. Print
 2013 Sep.

Muscle function and quality of life are not impaired in familial hypocalciuric 
hypercalcemia: a cross-sectional study on physiological effects of inactivating 
variants in the calcium-sensing receptor gene (CASR).

Jakobsen NF(1), Rolighed L, Nissen PH, Mosekilde L, Rejnmark L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Internal Medicine, Aarhus University 
Hospital, Tage-Hansens Gade 2, 8000 Aarhus C, Denmark. fbjakobsen@gmail.com

BACKGROUND: Familial hypocalciuric hypercalcemia (FHH) is often due to 
inactivating variants in the calcium-sensing receptor (CASR) gene causing 
chronically elevated plasma calcium levels with inappropriately normal or 
elevated parathyroid hormone levels. In patients with primary 
hyperparathyroidism, the state of hyperparathyroid hypercalcemia is associated 
with reduced muscle strength and impaired quality of life (QoL).
OBJECTIVE: To study whether FHH affects muscle function, postural stability, and 
QoL.
DESIGN: In a cross-sectional study, we investigated muscle strength (handgrip, 
elbow flexion/extension, and knee flexion/extension), balance function, physical 
activity, and QoL in 50 patients with FHH and in a similar number of age- and 
gender-matched population-based healthy controls. All but one of the FHH cases 
had genetically verified inactivating variants in the CASR gene.
RESULTS: Studied subjects (n=100, 68% females) had a mean age of 56.0 years. 
Muscle strength as assessed by measuring maximum force and maximum force 
production did not differ between the groups. Neither did groups differ in terms 
of QoL, physical activity, or postural stability, as assessed during normal 
standing with eyes open, normal standing with eyes closed, semi-tandem standing, 
or tandem standing. Adjustment for vitamin D status (plasma 25-hydroxyvitamin D 
levels) and BMI did not change results.
CONCLUSION: Despite a state of chronic hypercalcemia, muscle strength, balance 
function, and QoL are not impaired in patients with FHH. Our findings are 
reassuring for patients with FHH as they should not be considered as having a 
severe disease.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-13-0224
PMID: 23764372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Lupus. 2013 Jul;22(8):810-8. doi: 10.1177/0961203313492576. Epub 2013 Jun
13.

Progressive improvement of patient and renal survival and reduction of morbidity 
over time in patients with lupus nephritis (LN) followed for 20 years.

Moroni G(1), Quaglini S, Gallelli B, Banfi G, Messa P, Ponticelli C.

Author information:
(1)Unita' Operativa di Nefrologia e Dialisi, Fondazione Ospedale Maggiore 
Policlinico, Mangiagalli, Regina Elena IRCCS, Italy. gmoroni@policlinico.mi.it

Whether the long-term patient and renal survival of those diagnosed with lupus 
nephritis (LN) has improved over the decades is still debated. Eighty-nine 
patients diagnosed between 1968 and 1990 entered this study and their outcome 
was evaluated after 20 years. At presentation 54% of patients had class IV LN, 
39.3% had renal insufficiency and 59.5% had nephrotic syndrome. Patients were 
divided into two groups: Group 1 consisted of 30 patients diagnosed between 1968 
and 1980; Group 2 consisted of 59 patients diagnosed between 1981 and 1990. In 
Group 1 patient survival at 20 years was 84% versus 95% in Group 2 (p=0.05). 
Survivals without end-stage renal failure were respectively 75% and 84% at 20 
years (p=0.05). Survivals without severe infection at 20 years were 44% in Group 
1 and 66.5% in Group 2 (p=0.02). Survivals without cardiovascular events at 20 
years were: 53% in Group 1 and 90% in Group 2 (p=0.005). At presentation, 
patients in Group 1 had higher serum creatinine (1.96 vs 1.15 mg/dl, p=0.01), 
higher activity index (8 vs 5.5, p=0.01), lower hematocrit (31% v s6%, p=0.008) 
and lower serum C4 levels (p=0.04) than Group 2 patients. Patients in Group 1 
also received less frequent methylprednisolone pulses (43% vs 81%, p=0.0006). In 
Italian patients with LN, long-term life expectancy and renal survival 
progressively improved over the decades, while morbidity progressively declined. 
An earlier referral and refinement of therapy achieved this goal.

DOI: 10.1177/0961203313492576
PMID: 23764764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Age (Dordr). 2014 Feb;36(1):89-101. doi: 10.1007/s11357-013-9546-7. Epub
2013  Jun 14.

Reproduction, social behavior, and aging trajectories in honeybee workers.

Dixon L(1), Kuster R, Rueppell O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of North Carolina at Greensboro, 1000 
Spring Garden Street, 312 Eberhart Building, Greensboro, NC, 27403, USA.

While a negative correlation between reproduction and life span is commonly 
observed, specialized reproductive individuals outlive their non-reproductive 
nestmates in all eusocial species, including the honeybee, Apis mellifera (L). 
The consequences of reproduction for individual life expectancy can be studied 
directly by comparing reproductive and non-reproductive workers. We quantified 
the life span consequences of reproduction in honeybee workers by removal of the 
queen to trigger worker reproduction. Furthermore, we observed the social 
behavior of large cohorts of workers under experimental and control conditions 
to test for associations with individual life expectancy. Worker life expectancy 
was moderately increased by queen removal. Queenless colonies contained a few 
long-lived workers, and oviposition behavior was associated with a strong 
reduction in mortality risk, indicating that a reproductive role confers a 
significant survival advantage. This finding is further substantiated by an 
association between brood care behavior and worker longevity that depends on the 
social environment. In contrast, other in-hive activities, such as fanning, 
trophallaxis, and allogrooming did not consistently affect worker life 
expectancy. The influence of foraging varied among replicates. An earlier age of 
transitioning from in-hive tasks to outside foraging was always associated with 
shorter life spans, in accordance with previous studies. In sum, our studies 
quantify how individual mortality is affected by particular social roles and 
colony environments and demonstrate interactions between the two. The 
exceptional, positive association between reproduction and longevity in 
honeybees extends to within-caste plasticity, which may be exploited for 
mechanistic studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-013-9546-7
PMCID: PMC3889882
PMID: 23765046 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. JPEN J Parenter Enteral Nutr. 2013 Nov;37(6):796-801. doi: 
10.1177/0148607113492337. Epub 2013 Aug 22.

A position paper on how cost and quality reforms are changing healthcare in 
America: focus on nutrition.

Rosen BS(1), Maddox PJ, Ray N.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Surgery and Hospital Administration, Advocate Good Shepherd 
Hospital, Barrington, Illinois.

Healthcare spending in the United States is the highest in the world, yet 
quality indicators such as life expectancy and infant mortality lag other 
countries. U.S. reforms are under way to lower costs and raise quality of care, 
notably the Patient Protection and Affordable Care Act (PPACA). Value-based 
purchasing (VBP) and programs for reducing the incidence of hospital-acquired 
conditions (HACs) and hospital readmissions represent initial changes. With 
these programs, overarching themes are to coordinate care during and beyond 
hospitalization and to ensure that physicians and hospitals are aligned in their 
treatment strategies. Hospital malnutrition represents a large, hidden, and 
costly component of medical care; hospital administrators and caregivers alike 
must harness the benefits of nutrition as a vital component of healthcare. 
Medical, nursing, and allied health training programs must find places in their 
curricula to increase awareness of nutrition and promote knowledge of 
best-practice nutrition interventions. Hospitals use dietitians and nutrition 
support teams as critical members of the patient care team, but more work needs 
to be done to disseminate and enforce best nutrition practices. Such training, 
nutrition interventions, and practice changes can help prevent and treat 
malnutrition and thus help avert HACs, reduce hospital readmissions, lower 
infection and complication rates, and shorten hospital stays. Nutrition care is 
an effective way to reduce costs and improve patient outcomes. This article 
calls hospital executives and bedside clinicians to action: recognize the value 
of nutrition care before, during, and after hospitalization, as well as develop 
training programs and policies that promote nutrition care.

DOI: 10.1177/0148607113492337
PMID: 23765065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Mod Pathol. 2013 Nov;26(11):1498-507. doi: 10.1038/modpathol.2013.85. Epub
2013  Jun 14.

Phosphorylated S6 as an immunohistochemical biomarker of vulvar intraepithelial 
neoplasia.

Pinto AP(1), Degen M, Barron P, Crum CP, Rheinwald JG.

Author information:
(1)Division of Women's and Perinatal Pathology, Department of Pathology, Brigham 
and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA, USA.

As life expectancy lengthens, cases of non-viral-associated vulvar squamous cell 
carcinoma and its precursor lesion, so-called differentiated vulvar 
intraepithelial neoplasia (VIN), continue to increase in frequency. 
Differentiated VIN often is difficult to recognize and failure to detect it 
before invasion results in morbidity and mortality. Thus, identification of a 
reliable biomarker for this type of lesion would be of great clinical benefit. 
Our recent studies have identified activation (ser235/236 phosphorylation) of 
ribosomal protein S6 (p-S6) in basal epithelial cells as an event that precedes 
and accompanies laminin γ(2) overexpression in most preinvasive oral dysplasias. 
To test this as a potential biomarker of vulvar dysplasia, we immunostained 
seven differentiated VINs and nine papillomavirus-related 'classic' VINs, most 
of which were associated with carcinoma, for p-S6. All carcinomas, all 
differentiated VINs, and most classic VINs contained regions of p-S6 staining in 
the basal layer, whereas basal and parabasal cells of normal vulvar epithelium 
and hyperplastic and inflamed lesions lacking cellular atypia were p-S6 
negative. Laminin γ(2) was expressed in a subset of VINs, always occurring 
within basal p-S6 positive regions, as we had found previously for oral 
dysplasias. Lichen sclerosus is considered a potential precursor of vulvar 
carcinoma. Two lichen sclerosus lesions of patients with a concurrent carcinoma 
and one of six lichen sclerosus lesions without atypia or known concurrent 
carcinoma were basal p-S6 positive. In summary, there is a distinct difference 
in p-S6 basal cell layer staining between benign and neoplastic vulvar squamous 
epithelium, with consistent staining of differentiated VIN and of some lichen 
sclerosus lesions. These results support further studies to assess the potential 
of p-S6 as a biomarker to identify vulvar lesions at risk of progressing to 
invasive cancer.

DOI: 10.1038/modpathol.2013.85
PMID: 23765247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 Jun;15(5):515-31. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0492-1.
Epub  2013 Jun 14.

Identifying covariates of population health using extreme bound analysis.

Carmignani F(1), Shankar S, Tan EJ, Tang KK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Accounting, Finance, and Economics, Griffith University, 170 
Kessels Road, Brisbane, QLD, 4111, Australia, f.carmignani@griffith.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: The literature is full of lively discussion on the determinants of 
population health outcomes. However, different papers focus on small and 
different sets of variables according to their research agenda. Because many of 
these variables are measures of different aspects of development and are thus 
correlated, the results for one variable can be sensitive to the 
inclusion/exclusion of others.
METHOD: We tested for the robustness of potential predictors of population 
health using the extreme bounds analysis. Population health was measured by life 
expectancy at birth and infant mortality rate.
RESULTS: We found that only about half a dozen variables are robust predictors 
for life expectancy and infant mortality rate. Among them, adolescent fertility 
rate, improved water sources, and gender equality are the most robust. All 
institutional variables and environment variables are systematically non-robust 
predictors of population health.
CONCLUSION: The results highlight the importance of robustness tests in 
identifying predictors or potential determinants of population health, and cast 
doubts on the findings of previous studies that fail to do so.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0492-1
PMID: 23765332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Nestle Nutr Inst Workshop Ser. 2013;75:27-40. doi: 10.1159/000345815. Epub
2013  Apr 16.

Influence of dietary nitrate supplementation on exercise tolerance and 
performance.

Jones AM(1), Vanhatalo A, Bailey SJ.

Author information:
(1)Sport and Health Sciences, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, 
University of Exeter, Exeter, UK.

Several recent studies indicate that supplementation of the diet with inorganic 
nitrate results in a significant reduction in pulmonary O2 uptake during 
sub-maximal exercise, an effect that appears to be related to enhanced skeletal 
muscle efficiency. The physiological mechanisms responsible for this effect are 
not completely understood but are presumably linked to the bioconversion of 
ingested nitrate into nitrite and thence to nitric oxide. Nitrite and/or nitric 
oxide may influence muscle contractile efficiency perhaps via effects on 
sarcoplasmic reticulum calcium handling or actin-myosin interaction, and may 
also improve the efficiency of mitochondrial oxidative phosphorylation. A 
reduced O2 cost of exercise can be observed within 3 h of the consumption of 5-6 
mmol of nitrate, and this effect can be preserved for at least 15 days provided 
that the same 'dose' of nitrate is consumed daily. A reduced O2 cost of exercise 
following nitrate supplementation has now been reported for several types of 
exercise including cycling, walking, running, and knee extension exercise. 
Dietary nitrate supplementation has been reported to extend the time to 
exhaustion during high-intensity constant work rate exercise by 16-25% and to 
enhance cycling performance over 4, 10, and 16.1 km by 1-2% in recreationally 
active and moderately trained subjects. Although nitrate appears to be a 
promising 'new' ergogenic aid, additional research is required to determine the 
scope of its effects in different populations and different types of exercise.

Copyright © 2013 Nestec Ltd., Vevey/S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000345815
PMID: 23765348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Health Econ. 2014 Jun;23(6):729-42. doi: 10.1002/hec.2953. Epub 2013 Jun 13.

An Australian discrete choice experiment to value eq-5d health states.

Viney R(1), Norman R, Brazier J, Cronin P, King MT, Ratcliffe J, Street D.

Author information:
(1)University of Technology, Sydney, CHERE, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Conventionally, generic quality-of-life health states, defined within 
multi-attribute utility instruments, have been valued using a Standard Gamble or 
a Time Trade-Off. Both are grounded in expected utility theory but impose strong 
assumptions about the form of the utility function. Preference elicitation tasks 
for both are complicated, limiting the number of health states that each 
respondent can value and, therefore, that can be valued overall. The usual 
approach has been to value a set of the possible health states and impute values 
for the remainder. Discrete Choice Experiments (DCEs) offer an attractive 
alternative, allowing investigation of more flexible specifications of the 
utility function and greater coverage of the response surface. We designed a DCE 
to obtain values for EQ-5D health states and implemented it in an 
Australia-representative online panel (n = 1,031). A range of specifications 
investigating non-linear preferences with respect to time and interactions 
between EQ-5D levels were estimated using a random-effects probit model. The 
results provide empirical support for a flexible utility function, including at 
least some two-factor interactions. We then constructed a preference index such 
that full health and death were valued at 1 and 0, respectively, to provide a 
DCE-based algorithm for Australian cost-utility analyses.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2953
PMID: 23765787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Eur Respir J. 2014 Feb;43(2):566-81. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00005613. Epub
2013  Jun 13.

Comparing cost-effectiveness of standardised tuberculosis treatments given 
varying drug resistance.

Law S(1), Benedetti A, Oxlade O, Schwartzman K, Menzies D.

Author information:
(1)McGill University, Montreal, Canada.

There is a growing need to identify appropriate standardised treatment 
strategies that will adequately treat various forms of drug-resistant 
tuberculosis (TB) and prevent multidrug-resistant (MDR)-TB. A Markov model 
estimated treatment-related acquired MDR-TB, mortality, disability-adjusted life 
years and costs in settings with different prevalence of isoniazid monoresistant 
TB and MDR-TB. We compared four treatment strategies: 1) the standard World 
Health Organization recommended treatment strategy; 2) adding ethambutol 
throughout the 6-month treatment of new cases; 3) using a strengthened 
standardised retreatment regimen; and 4) using standardised MDR treatment for 
failures of initial treatment. Treatment-related outcomes were derived from the 
published literature, and costs from direct surveys. A strengthened retreatment 
regimen, which could achieve lower failure, relapse and acquired MDR rates in 
isoniazid monoresistant cases, was predicted to be the most cost-effective 
strategy in all modelled settings. Empirical MDR treatment of failures of 
initial treatment was the most costly strategy but resulted in the fewest 
deaths. Adding ethambutol throughout initial treatment would be most effective 
in preventing acquired MDR, but would lead to excess cases of blindness. A high 
priority should be given to improving the standardised retreatment regimen, as 
this is predicted to produce greater benefits than other recently recommended 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00005613
PMID: 23766335 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Ind Psychiatry J. 2012 Jan;21(1):39-43. doi: 10.4103/0972-6748.110949.

A study of autonomic functions and obesity in postmenopausal women.

Chaudhuri A(1), Borade NG, Tirumalai J, Saldanha D, Ghosh B, Srivastava K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Dr. D.Y. Patil Medical College, Kolkata, West 
Bengal, India.

BACKGROUND: Easy accessibility to Medicare and better living conditions has 
increased life expectancy in recent years. There are over 60 million 
postmenopausal women above 55 years in India. Obesity, physical inactivity, and 
altered estrogen metabolism play an integrated role in contributing to the 
disease risk profile of postmenopausal women. These same risk factors also 
affect modulation of the autonomic nervous system. A study was undertaken to 
test the hypothesis whether there is indeed an alteration in autonomic functions 
in obese postmenopausal women.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: 60 postmenopausal women without any gross systemic 
disease whose body mass index and waist/hip ratio were recorded. Subjects were 
divided into two groups of 36 Non-Obese and 24 Obese. The two groups were well 
matched for age and menopausal duration. The physical as well as physiological 
parameters like valsalva ratio, heart rate variation with deep breath test, 
heart rate response to postural change (30:15 R-R interval ratio), orthostatic 
tolerance test, and isometric handgrip test were recorded.
RESULTS: Results of valsalva ratio, deep breath test, and 30:15 R-R interval 
ratios and isometric handgrip test were significantly decreased and orthostatic 
tolerance values were significantly increased in Obese subjects.
CONCLUSION: Findings show decreased sympathovagal activity with obesity in 
postmenopausal women.

DOI: 10.4103/0972-6748.110949
PMCID: PMC3678176
PMID: 23766576

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


282. Clin Endosc. 2013 May;46(3):260-6. doi: 10.5946/ce.2013.46.3.260. Epub 2013
May  31.

Technical tips and issues of biliary stenting, focusing on malignant hilar 
obstruction.

Lee TH(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Internal Medicine, Soonchunhyang 
University Cheonan Hospital, Soonchunhyang University College of Medicine, 
Cheonan, Korea.

Although there is no survival advantage, inoperable hilar cholangiocarcinoma 
managed by palliative drainage may benefit from symptomatic improvement. In 
general, biliary drainage is divided into endoscopic or percutaneous approaches 
and surgical drainage. Plastic or metal stent is the most preferred device for 
palliative drainage in endoscopic approach. Considering cost-effectiveness, use 
of metallic stent is preferred than plastic stents in patients with more than 3 
months of life expectancy with inoperable malignant biliary obstruction. In 
patients with unresectable malignant hilar obstruction, the endoscopic approach 
with biliary stent placement by experts has been considered as the treatment of 
choice. However, the endoscopic management of hilar obstruction is often more 
challenging and complex than distal malignant biliary obstructions. There is 
still a lack of clear consensus on the use of plastic versus metal stents and 
unilateral versus bilateral drainage since the decision should be made under 
many grounds such as the volume of liver drainage more than 50%, life 
expectancy, and expertise of the facility.

DOI: 10.5946/ce.2013.46.3.260
PMCID: PMC3678064
PMID: 23767037

Conflict of interest statement: The author has no financial conflicts of 
interest.


283. J Neurosurg Spine. 2013 Aug;19(2):191-6. doi: 10.3171/2013.5.SPINE12753.
Epub  2013 Jun 14.

Early postoperative dislocation of the anterior Maverick lumbar disc prosthesis: 
report of 2 cases.

Gragnaniello C(1), Seex KA, Eisermann LG, Claydon MH, Malham GM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Macquarie University, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.

The authors report on 2 cases of anterior dislocation of the Maverick lumbar 
disc prosthesis, both occurring in the early postoperative period. These cases 
developed after experience with more than 50 uneventful cases and were therefore 
thought to be unrelated to the surgeon's learning curve. No similar 
complications have been previously reported. The anterior Maverick device has a 
ball-and-socket design made of cobalt-chromium-molybdenum metal plates covered 
with hydroxyapatite. The superior and inferior endplates have keels to resist 
translation forces. The patient in Case 1 was a 52-year-old man with severe L4-5 
discogenic pain; and in Case 2, a 42-year-old woman with disabling L4-5 and 
L5-S1 discogenic back pain. Both patients were without medical comorbidities and 
were nonsmokers with no risk factors for osteoporosis. Both had undergone 
uneventful retroperitoneal approaches performed by a vascular access surgeon. 
Computed tomography studies on postoperative Day 2 confirmed excellent 
prosthesis placement. Initial recoveries were uneventful. Two weeks 
postoperatively, after stretching (extension or hyperextension) in bed at home, 
each patient suffered the sudden onset of severe abdominal pain with anterior 
dislocation of the Maverick prosthesis. The patients were returned to the 
operating room and underwent surgery performed by the same spinal and vascular 
surgeons. Removal of the Maverick prosthesis and anterior interbody fusion with 
a separate cage and plate were performed. Both patients had recovered well with 
good clinical and radiological recovery at the 6- and 12-month follow-ups. 
Possible causes of the anterior dislocation of the Maverick prosthesis include 
the following: 1) surgeon error: In both cases the keel cuts were neat, and 
early postoperative CT confirmed good placement of the prosthesis; 2) equipment 
problem: The keel cuts may have been too large because the cutters were worn, 
which led to an inadequate press fit of the implants; 3) prosthesis fault: Both 
plates of the dislocated implants looked normal and manufacturer analysis 
reported no fault; 4) patient factors: Both dislocations happened early in the 
postoperative period, after hyperextension of the spine while the patient was 
supine in bed. Bracing would not have reduced hyperextension. Dislocation of a 
lumbar spinal implant represents a life-threatening complication and should 
therefore be considered and recognized early. Radiographic and CT studies of 
both the lumbar spine (for prosthesis) and the abdomen (for hematoma) should be 
performed, as should CT angiography (for vessel damage or occlusion). Any 
anterior lumbar revision surgery is hazardous, and it is strongly advisable to 
have a vascular surgeon scrubbed. In cases of dislocation or extrusion of a 
lumbar interbody prosthesis, the salvage revision strategy is fusing the segment 
via the same anterior approach. Surgeons should be aware of the risk of anterior 
dislocation of the Maverick prosthesis. Keel cutters should be regularly checked 
for sharpness, as they may be implicated in the loosening of implants. Patients 
and their physical therapists should also avoid lumbar hyperextension in the 
early postoperative period.

DOI: 10.3171/2013.5.SPINE12753
PMID: 23768025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. Trials. 2013 Jun 14;14:174. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-174.

Acupuncture for lateral epicondylitis (tennis elbow): study protocol for a 
randomized, practitioner-assessor blinded, controlled pilot clinical trial.

Shin KM(1), Kim JH, Lee S, Shin MS, Kim TH, Park HJ, Lee MH, Hong KE, Lee S, 
Choi SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Research, Korea Institute of Oriental Medicine, 
Daejeon, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: Lateral epicondylitis is the most frequent cause of pain around the 
elbow joint. It causes pain in the region of the elbow joint and results in 
dysfunction of the elbow and deterioration of the quality of life. The purpose 
of this study is to compare the effects of ipsilateral acupuncture, 
contralateral acupuncture and sham acupuncture on lateral epicondylitis.
METHODS/DESIGN: Forty-five subjects with lateral epicondylitis will be 
randomized into three groups: the ipsilateral acupuncture group, contralateral 
acupuncture group and the sham acupuncture group. The inclusion criteria will be 
as follows: (1) age between 19 and 65 years with pain due to one-sided lateral 
epicondylitis that persisted for at least four weeks, (2) with tenderness on 
pressure limited to regions around the elbow joint, (3) complaining of pain 
during resistive extension of the middle finger or the wrist, (4) with average 
pain of NRS 4 or higher during the last one week at a screening visit and (5) 
voluntarily agree to this study and sign a written consent. Acupuncture 
treatment will be given 10 times in total for 4 weeks to all groups. Follow up 
observations will be conducted after the completion of the treatment, 8 weeks 
and 12 weeks after the random assignment. Ipsilateral acupuncture group and 
contralateral acupuncture group will receive acupuncture on LI4, TE5, LI10, 
LI11, LU5, LI12 and two Ashi points. The sham acupuncture group will receive 
treatment on acupuncture points not related to the lateral epicondylitis using a 
non-invasive method. The needles will be maintained for 20 minutes. The primary 
outcome will be differences in the visual analogue scale (VAS) for elbow pain 
between the groups. The secondary outcome will be differences in patient-rated 
tennis elbow evaluation (PRTEE), pain-free/maximum grip strength (Dynamometer), 
pressure pain threshold, clinically relevant improvement, patient global 
assessment, and the EQ-5D. The data will be analyzed with the paired t-test and 
ANCOVA (P <0.05).
DISCUSSION: The results of this study will allow evaluation of contralateral 
acupuncture from two aspects. First, if the contralateral acupuncture shows the 
effects similar to ipsilateral acupuncture, this will establish clinical basis 
for contralateral acupuncture. Second, if the effects of contralateral 
acupuncture are not comparable to the effects of ipsilateral acupuncture, but 
are shown to be similar to the effects of the sham acupuncture, we can establish 
the basis for using the same acupoints of the unaffected side as a control in 
acupuncture clinical studies.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial has been registered with the 'Clinical Research 
Information Service (CRIS)', Republic of Korea: KCT0000628.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-174
PMCID: PMC3685553
PMID: 23768129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Int J Nurs Stud. 2013 Dec;50(12):1589-98. doi:
10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2013.05.007.  Epub 2013 Jun 12.

Intermittent versus indwelling urinary catheterisation in hip surgery patients: 
a randomised controlled trial with cost-effectiveness analysis.

Hälleberg Nyman M(1), Gustafsson M, Langius-Eklöf A, Johansson JE, Norlin R, 
Hagberg L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Örebro University Hospital, Örebro, Sweden; 
School of Health and Medical Sciences, Örebro University, Örebro, Sweden. 
Electronic address: maria.halleberg-nyman@oru.se.

BACKGROUND: Hip surgery is associated with the risk of postoperative urinary 
retention. To avoid urinary retention hip surgery patients undergo urinary 
catheterisation. Urinary catheterisation, however, is associated with increased 
risk for urinary tract infection (UTI). At present, there is limited evidence 
for whether intermittent or indwelling urinary catheterisation is the preferred 
choice for short-term bladder drainage in patients undergoing hip surgery.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study was to investigate differences between 
intermittent and indwelling urinary catheterisation in hip surgery patients in 
relation to nosocomial UTI and cost-effectiveness.
DESIGN: Randomised controlled trial with cost-effectiveness analysis.
SETTING: The study was carried out at an orthopaedic department at a Swedish 
University Hospital.
METHODS: One hundred and seventy hip surgery patients (patients with fractures 
or with osteoarthritis) were randomly allocated to either intermittent or 
indwelling urinary catheterisation. Data collection took place at four time 
points: during stay in hospital, at discharge and at 4 weeks and 4 months after 
discharge.
RESULTS: Eighteen patients contracted nosocomial UTIs, 8 in the intermittent 
catheterisation group and 10 in the indwelling catheterisation group (absolute 
difference 2.4%, 95% CI -6.9-11.6%) The patients in the intermittent 
catheterisation group were more often catheterised (p<0.001) and required more 
bladder scans (p<0.001) but regained normal bladder function sooner than the 
patients in the indwelling catheterisation group (p<0.001). Fourteen percent of 
the patients in the intermittent group did not need any catheterisation. 
Cost-effectiveness was similar between the indwelling and intermittent urinary 
catheterisation methods.
CONCLUSIONS: Both indwelling and intermittent methods could be appropriate in 
clinical practice. Both methods have advantages and disadvantages but by not 
using routine indwelling catheterisation, unnecessary catheterisations might be 
avoided in this patient group.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijnurstu.2013.05.007
PMID: 23768410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. J Exp Child Psychol. 2013 Dec;116(4):962-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jecp.2013.05.004.
 Epub 2013 Jun 14.

The influence of model status on the tendency of young children to over-imitate.

McGuigan N(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Heriot Watt University, Edinburgh EH14 4AS, 
Scotland, UK. Electronic address: n.mcguigan@hw.ac.uk.

The current study aimed to integrate the trust and over-imitation literatures by 
allowing groups of 5-year-old children to view one of four adult models, 
differing in their level of status (high or low), retrieve a reward from inside 
a transparent puzzle box. Each of the models performed a sequence of tool 
actions on the box before retrieving the reward. These actions varied according 
to their causal necessity, with some of the actions being causally necessary for 
reward retrieval and others being causally irrelevant. The results suggest that 
young children are selective copiers, reproducing the irrelevant tool actions 
most frequently after having viewed the high-status models. It is suggested that 
this bias toward rank-ordered copying is likely to be a strategy favored by 
natural selection because the behaviors displayed by high-status individuals are 
often the behaviors that are locally adaptive and may, by extension, provide 
copiers with a selective advantage within their environment.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jecp.2013.05.004
PMID: 23768760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. J Formos Med Assoc. 2013 Oct;112(10):589-99. doi:
10.1016/j.jfma.2013.04.009.  Epub 2013 Jun 13.

Withdrawal from long-term hemodialysis in patients with end-stage renal disease 
in Taiwan.

Lai CF(1), Tsai HB, Hsu SH, Chiang CK, Huang JW, Huang SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital Jin-Shan Branch, 
New Taipei City, Taiwan; Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan 
University Hospital, National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

Withdrawal from dialysis is ethically appropriate for some patients with 
multiple comorbidities and a shortened life expectancy. Taiwan has the highest 
prevalence of dialysis patients in the world, and the National Health Insurance 
(NHI) program offers renal replacement therapy free of charge. In this review, 
we discuss its current status and many background issues related to withdrawing 
dialysis from patients with advanced renal failure in Taiwan. Compared with 
dialysis therapy, the medical resources for hospice care are relatively sparse. 
Since the announcement of the Statute for Palliative Care in 2000, there has 
been a gradual improvement in the laws and health polices supporting dialysis 
withdrawal. Culture and social customs also have a significant impact on the 
practice of hospice care. Based on current evidence and in accordance with the 
local environment, we propose recommendations for the clinical practice of 
dialysis withdrawal and hospice care. There remains a need to expand upon the 
community-based hospice care and home care systems to better serve patients. In 
conclusion, there are cross-cultural differences relating to dialysis withdrawal 
between Taiwan and Western countries. Our experience and clinical 
recommendations may be helpful for the countries with NHI systems or for the 
Eastern countries.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfma.2013.04.009
PMID: 23768949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. J Diabetes Complications. 2013 Jul-Aug;27(4):351-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2012.12.006. Epub 2013 Jun 13.

Adapting and validating diabetes simulation models across settings: accounting 
for mortality differences using administrative data.

Hayes AJ(1), Davis WA, Davis TM, Clarke PM.

Author information:
(1)Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney NSW 2006, 
Australia. alison.hayes@sydney.edu.au

AIMS: To develop age and sex-specific risk equations for predicting mortality 
following major complications of diabetes, using a large linked administrative 
dataset from Western Australia (WA) and to incorporate these into an existing 
diabetes simulation model.
METHODS: The study uses linked hospital and mortality records on 13,884 patients 
following a major diabetes-related complication with a mean (SD) duration of 
2.62 (2.25) years. Risk equations for predicting mortality were derived and 
integrated into the UKPDS Outcomes Model. Estimates of life expectancy and 
incremental QALYs gained as a result of two theoretical therapies (a reduction 
of HbA1c of 1%, and reduction of systolic blood pressure of 10 mmHg) were 
determined using the original and adapted models.
RESULTS: The two versions of the model generated differences in life expectancy 
following specific events; however there was little impact of using alternative 
mortality equations on incremental QALYs gained as a result of reducing HbA(1c) 
or systolic blood pressure, or on outcomes of life expectancy for a cohort 
initially free of complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Mortality following complications varies across diabetic 
populations and can impact on estimates of life expectancy, but appears to have 
less impact on incremental benefits of interventions that are commonly used in 
pharmoeconomic analyses.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2012.12.006
PMCID: PMC9359612
PMID: 23769021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Phys Life Rev. 2013 Sep;10(3):235-66. doi: 10.1016/j.plrev.2013.05.008. Epub
 2013 May 29.

From everyday emotions to aesthetic emotions: towards a unified theory of 
musical emotions.

Juslin PN(1).

Author information:
(1)Uppsala University, Sweden. Electronic address: patrik.juslin@psyk.uu.se.

Comment in
    Phys Life Rev. 2013 Sep;10(3):277-8.
    Phys Life Rev. 2013 Sep;10(3):275-6.
    Phys Life Rev. 2013 Sep;10(3):273-4.
    Phys Life Rev. 2013 Sep;10(3):279-80.
    Phys Life Rev. 2013 Sep;10(3):269-70.
    Phys Life Rev. 2013 Sep;10(3):271-2.
    Phys Life Rev. 2013 Sep;10(3):267-8.
    Phys Life Rev. 2013 Sep;10(3):281-6.

The sound of music may arouse profound emotions in listeners. But such 
experiences seem to involve a 'paradox', namely that music--an abstract form of 
art, which appears removed from our concerns in everyday life--can arouse 
emotions - biologically evolved reactions related to human survival. How are 
these (seemingly) non-commensurable phenomena linked together? Key is to 
understand the processes through which sounds are imbued with meaning. It can be 
argued that the survival of our ancient ancestors depended on their ability to 
detect patterns in sounds, derive meaning from them, and adjust their behavior 
accordingly. Such an ecological perspective on sound and emotion forms the basis 
of a recent multi-level framework that aims to explain emotional responses to 
music in terms of a large set of psychological mechanisms. The goal of this 
review is to offer an updated and expanded version of the framework that can 
explain both 'everyday emotions' and 'aesthetic emotions'. The revised 
framework--referred to as BRECVEMA--includes eight mechanisms: Brain Stem 
Reflex, Rhythmic Entrainment, Evaluative Conditioning, Contagion, Visual 
Imagery, Episodic Memory, Musical Expectancy, and Aesthetic Judgment. In this 
review, it is argued that all of the above mechanisms may be directed at 
information that occurs in a 'musical event' (i.e., a specific constellation of 
music, listener, and context). Of particular significance is the addition of a 
mechanism corresponding to aesthetic judgments of the music, to better account 
for typical 'appreciation emotions' such as admiration and awe. Relationships 
between aesthetic judgments and other mechanisms are reviewed based on the 
revised framework. It is suggested that the framework may contribute to a 
long-needed reconciliation between previous approaches that have conceptualized 
music listeners' responses in terms of either 'everyday emotions' or 'aesthetic 
emotions'.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plrev.2013.05.008
PMID: 23769678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


290. Gynecol Oncol. 2013 Sep;130(3):426-30. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2013.06.011.
Epub  2013 Jun 14.

Cost-effectiveness of early palliative care intervention in recurrent 
platinum-resistant ovarian cancer.

Lowery WJ(1), Lowery AW, Barnett JC, Lopez-Acevedo M, Lee PS, Secord AA, 
Havrilesky L.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Durham, NC 27710, USA. william.lowery@duke.edu

OBJECTIVE: To determine if early palliative care intervention in patients with 
recurrent, platinum-resistant ovarian cancer is potentially cost saving or 
cost-effective.
METHODS: A decision model with a 6 month time horizon evaluated routine care 
versus routine care plus early referral to a palliative medicine specialist 
(EPC) for recurrent platinum-resistant ovarian cancer. Model parameters included 
rates of inpatient admissions, emergency department (ED) visits, chemotherapy 
administration, and quality of life (QOL). From published ovarian cancer data, 
we assumed baseline rates over the final 6 months: hospitalization 70%, 
chemotherapy 60%, and ED visit 30%. Published data from a randomized trial 
evaluating EPC in metastatic lung cancer were used to model odds ratios (ORs) 
for potential reductions in hospitalization (OR 0.69), chemotherapy (OR 0.77), 
and emergency department care (OR 0.74) and improvement in QOL (OR 1.07). The 
costs of hospitalization, ED visit, chemotherapy, and EPC were based on 
published data. Ranges were used for sensitivity analysis. Effectiveness was 
quantified in quality adjusted life years (QALYs); survival was assumed 
equivalent between strategies.
RESULTS: EPC was associated with a cost savings of $1285 per patient over 
routine care. In sensitivity analysis incorporating QOL, EPC was either dominant 
or cost-effective, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
<$50,000/QALY, unless the cost of outpatient EPC exceeded $2400. Assuming no 
clinical benefit other than QOL (no change in chemotherapy administration, 
hospitalizations or ED visits), EPC remained highly cost-effective with ICER 
$37,440/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Early palliative care intervention has the potential to reduce costs 
associated with end of life care in patients with ovarian cancer.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2013.06.011
PMID: 23769759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. Paediatr Respir Rev. 2014 Mar;15(1):69-74. doi: 10.1016/j.prrv.2013.05.001.
Epub  2013 Jun 14.

Liver disease in cystic fibrosis.

Leeuwen L(1), Fitzgerald DA(2), Gaskin KJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, 
Sydney, Australia; Medical School, University of Groningen, Groningen, The 
Netherlands.
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, 
Sydney, Australia; Discipline of Paediatrics and Child Health, Sydney Medical 
School, University of Sydney, Australia.
(3)Discipline of Paediatrics and Child Health, Sydney Medical School, University 
of Sydney, Australia; Department of Gastroenterology, The Children's Hospital at 
Westmead, Sydney, Australia; James Fairfax Institute of Paediatric Nutrition, 
University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: 
kevin.gaskin@health.nsw.gov.au.

The survival of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has progressively increased 
over recent decades, largely attributable to early diagnosis through newborn 
screening and advances in nutritional and respiratory care. As the life 
expectancy of patients with CF has improved, non-respiratory complications such 
as liver disease have become increasingly recognized. Biochemical derangements 
of liver enzymes in CF are common and may be attributed to a number of specific 
hepatobiliary abnormalities. Among them, Cystic Fibrosis-associated Liver 
Disease (CFLD) is clinically the most significant hepatic complication and is 
believed to have a significant impact on morbidity and mortality. However, there 
remains much conjecture about the extent of the adverse prognostic implications 
that a diagnosis of CFLD has on clinical outcomes. The purpose of this review is 
to give an overview of the current knowledge regarding liver disease in children 
with CF.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prrv.2013.05.001
PMID: 23769887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Z Orthop Unfall. 2013 Jun;151(3):303-14; quiz 315. doi:
10.1055/s-0032-1328634.  Epub 2013 Jun 14.

[Basic principles of surgical treatment of bone metastases].

[Article in German]

Wessling M(1), Pflugmacher R, Müller MC, Kabir K, Pennekamp PH.

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Orthopädie und Unfallchirurgie, 
Universitätsklinikum Bonn, Sigmund-Freud-Straße 25, Bonn.

Due to an increased life expectancy and improved oncological treatment, the 
necessity for surgical treatment of bone metastases has increased as well. 
Ideally, therapy should concentrate on the improvement of the patient's quality 
of life while preferably being interdisciplinary. The type and extent of 
surgical therapy depend on the prognosis, tumor entity, localization of the 
tumor as well as on the patient's general condition. The main aims of surgical 
treatment is to reduce pain and preserve or restore function and mobility. After 
the contribution on spinal metastases in the last volume, this article focusses 
on metastases of the extremities and the pelvis. Pathologic fractures with an 
unclear oncological situation should be examined thoroughly before any surgical 
treatment is performed. In case of doubt, a biopsy should be performed. 
Depending on the individual prognosis, possible options for extremity surgery 
are (compound) osteosynthesis and implantation of a tumor endoprosthesis. The 
latter should be preferred for patients with a favorable prognosis and long life 
expectancy. To avoid revision surgery, the selected implant should outlast the 
patient's remaining life expectancy.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1328634
PMID: 23771334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. J Cancer Res Ther. 2013 Apr-Jun;9(2):193-8. doi: 10.4103/0973-1482.113348.

Cancer patients with cardiac pacemakers needing radiation treatment: a 
systematic review.

Munshi A(1), Agarwal JP, Pandey KC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Fortis Memorial Research Institute, 
Gurgaon, Haryana, India.

