
Lancellotti P(1), Nkomo VT, Badano LP, Bergler-Klein J, Bogaert J, Davin L, 
Cosyns B, Coucke P, Dulgheru R, Edvardsen T, Gaemperli O, Galderisi M, Griffin 
B, Heidenreich PA, Nieman K, Plana JC, Port SC, Scherrer-Crosbie M, Schwartz RG, 
Sebag IA, Voigt JU, Wann S, Yang PC; European Society of Cardiology Working 
Groups on Nuclear Cardiology and Cardiac Computed Tomography and Cardiovascular 
Magnetic Resonance; American Society of Nuclear Cardiology; Society for 
Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance; Society of Cardiovascular Computed 
Tomography.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, GIGA Cardiovascular Sciences, Heart Valve Clinic, 
University of Liège Hospital, CHU du Sart-Tilman, Liège 4000, Belgium. 
plancellotti@chu.ulg.ac.be

Erratum in
    Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Imaging. 2013 Dec;14(12):1217.

Comment in
    Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Imaging. 2014 Feb;15(2):233.
    Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Imaging. 2014 Feb;15(2):233-4.

Cardiac toxicity is one of the most concerning side effects of anti-cancer 
therapy. The gain in life expectancy obtained with anti-cancer therapy can be 
compromised by increased morbidity and mortality associated with its cardiac 
complications. While radiosensitivity of the heart was initially recognized only 
in the early 1970s, the heart is regarded in the current era as one of the most 
critical dose-limiting organs in radiotherapy. Several clinical studies have 
identified adverse clinical consequences of radiation-induced heart disease 
(RIHD) on the outcome of long-term cancer survivors. A comprehensive review of 
potential cardiac complications related to radiotherapy is warranted. An 
evidence-based review of several imaging approaches used to detect, evaluate, 
and monitor RIHD is discussed. Recommendations for the early identification and 
monitoring of cardiovascular complications of radiotherapy by cardiac imaging 
are also proposed.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjci/jet123
PMID: 23847385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Clin Interv Aging. 2013;8:797-807. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S43817. Epub 2013 Jun
28.

Ageism vs. the technical imperative, applying the GRADE framework to the 
evidence on hemodialysis in very elderly patients.

Thorsteinsdottir B(1), Montori VM, Prokop LJ, Murad MH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Primary Care Internal Medicine, Knowledge and Evaluation Research 
Unit, MN 55905, USA. thorsteinsdottir.bjorg@mayo.edu

PURPOSE: Treatment intensity for elderly patients with end-stage renal disease 
has escalated beyond population growth. Ageism seems to have given way to a 
powerful imperative to treat patients irrespective of age, prognosis, or 
functional status. Hemodialysis (HD) is a prime example of this trend. Recent 
articles have questioned this practice. This paper aims to identify existing 
pre-synthesized evidence on HD in the very elderly and frame it from the 
perspective of a clinician who needs to involve their patient in a treatment 
decision.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A comprehensive search of several databases from January 
2002 to August 2012 was conducted for systematic reviews of clinical and 
economic outcomes of HD in the elderly. We also contacted experts to identify 
additional references. We applied the rigorous framework of decisional factors 
of the Grading of Recommendation, Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE) 
to evaluate the quality of evidence and strength of recommendations.
RESULTS: We found nine eligible systematic reviews. The quality of the evidence 
to support the current recommendation of HD initiation for most very elderly 
patients is very low. There is significant uncertainty in the balance of 
benefits and risks, patient preference, and whether default HD in this patient 
population is a wise use of resources.
CONCLUSION: Following the GRADE framework, recommendation for HD in this 
population would be weak. This means it should not be considered standard of 
care and should only be started based on the well-informed patient's values and 
preferences. More studies are needed to delineate the true treatment effect and 
to guide future practice and policy.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S43817
PMCID: PMC3700780
PMID: 23847412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Front Plant Sci. 2013 Jul 1;4:212. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2013.00212. eCollection
 2013.

Using evolution as a guide to engineer kranz-type c4 photosynthesis.

Slewinski TL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Biology, Cornell University Ithaca, NY, USA.

Kranz-type C4 photosynthesis has independently and rapidly evolved over 60 times 
to dramatically increase radiation use efficiency in both monocots and eudicots. 
Indeed, it is one of the most exceptional examples of convergent evolution in 
the history of life. The repeated and rapid evolution of Kranz-type C4 suggests 
that it may be a derivative of a conserved developmental pathway that is present 
in all angiosperms. Here, I argue that the Kranz-type C4 photosynthetic system 
is an extension of the endodermis/starch sheath, that is normally only found in 
the roots and stems, into photosynthetic structures such as leaves. Support for 
this hypothesis was recently provided by a study that showed that the same 
genetic pathway that gives rise to the endodermis in roots, the 
SCARECROW/SHORT-ROOT radial patterning system, also regulates the development of 
Kranz anatomy and C4 physiology in leaves. This new hypothesis for the evolution 
of Kranz-type C4 photosynthesis has opened new opportunities to explore the 
underlying genetic networks that regulate the development and physiology of C4 
and provides new potential avenues for the engineering of the mechanism into C3 
crops.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2013.00212
PMCID: PMC3696737
PMID: 23847626


516. COPD. 2013 Dec;10(6):640-9. doi: 10.3109/15412555.2013.813447. Epub 2013 Jul
12.

Economic assessment of home-based COPD management programs.

Liu SX(1), Lee MC, Atakhorrami M, Tatousek J, McCormack M, Yung R, Hart N, White 
DP.

Author information:
(1)1Philips Research North America, Briarcliff Manor, NY, United States.

Home-based exacerbation management programs have been proposed as an approach to 
reducing the clinical and financial burden of COPD. We demonstrate a framework 
to evaluate such programs in order to guide program design and performance 
decisions towards optimizing cost and clinical outcomes. This study models the 
impact of hypothetical exacerbation management programs through probabilistic 
Markov simulations. Patients were stratified by risk using exacerbation rates 
from the ECLIPSE study and expert opinion. Three scenarios were modeled, using 
base, worst and best case parameters to suggest potential telehealth program 
performance. In these scenarios, acute exacerbations could be detected early, 
with sensitivity and specificity ranging from 60-90%. Detected acute 
exacerbations could be diverted to either a sub-acute pathway (12.5-50% 
probability), thus entirely avoiding hospitalization, or a lower cost pathway 
through length-of-stay reduction (14-28% reduction). For a cohort of patients 
without prior hospitalization, the base case telehealth scenario results in a 
cumulative per-patient lifetime savings of $2.9 K over ≈ 12 years. For a higher 
risk cohort of patients with a prior admission and 1 to 2 acute exacerbations 
per year, a cumulative $16K per patient was saved during the remaining ≈ 3 
life-years. Acceptable prices for home-based exacerbation detection testing were 
highly dependent on patient risk and scenario, but ranged from $290-$1263 per 
month for the highest risk groups. These results suggest the economic viability 
of exacerbation management programs and highlight the importance of risk 
stratification in such programs. The presented model can further be adapted to 
model specific programs as trial data becomes available.

DOI: 10.3109/15412555.2013.813447
PMID: 23848542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Clin Geriatr Med. 2013 Aug;29(3):625-39. doi: 10.1016/j.cger.2013.05.005.

Dialysis therapies in older patients with end-stage renal disease.

Malavade T(1), Sokwala A, Jassal SV.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, 
University Health Network, 200 Elizabeth Street, 8N857, Toronto, Ontario M5G 
2K8, Canada.

Each year a large number of older individuals with advanced renal disease are 
started on chronic dialysis therapy. Life expectancy is estimated at between 2 
and 4 years depending on age, comorbidity, and intensity of medical care 
required in the weeks around the dialysis start time. Survivors remain at high 
risk of ongoing morbidity. Regarding quality of life, many older patients 
express regret over having opted for chronic dialysis therapy and subsequently 
choose to withdraw from treatment, whereas many others maintain a quality of 
life similar to that of age-matched peers. Early assessment and ongoing 
comprehensive geriatric assessment is recommended.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2013.05.005
PMID: 23849012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. Clin Geriatr Med. 2013 Aug;29(3):721-30. doi: 10.1016/j.cger.2013.05.009.

Slowing the aging process.

Wiggins J(1), Bitzer M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, 
MI 48109, USA. wiggi@umich.edu

Research into the aging process is very new. For many years aging was thought to 
be the natural and inevitable consequence of a life of wear and tear. The idea 
that aging could be influenced by the genetic code and had a modifiable biologic 
component is less than 20 years old. During this time, aging has come to be 
understood as a complex biologic process controlled by signaling pathways and 
transcription factors. Similar attitudes pervade the field of nephrology. 
Whether a decline in renal function with age represents normal aging or kidney 
disease is the subject of much debate.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2013.05.009
PMID: 23849016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Sep;92:27-34. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.05.018. Epub
2013  May 31.

AIDS treatment and mental health: evidence from Uganda.

Okeke EN(1), Wagner GJ.

Author information:
(1)RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, CA, USA. eokeke@rand.org

Increased access to antiretroviral therapy (ART) in developing countries over 
the last decade is believed to have contributed to reductions in HIV 
transmission and improvements in life expectancy. While numerous studies 
document the effects of ART on physical health and functioning, comparatively 
less attention has been paid to the effects of ART on mental health outcomes. In 
this paper we study the impact of ART on depression in a cohort of patients in 
Uganda entering HIV care. We find that 12 months after beginning ART, the 
prevalence of major and minor depression in the treatment group had fallen by 
approximately 15 and 27 percentage points respectively relative to a comparison 
group of patients in HIV care but not receiving ART. We also find some evidence 
that ART helps to close the well-known gender gap in depression between men and 
women.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.05.018
PMCID: PMC3713499
PMID: 23849276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Sep;92:92-104. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.05.013. Epub
2013  Jun 4.

Estimating a WTP-based value of a QALY: the 'chained' approach.

Robinson A(1), Gyrd-Hansen D, Bacon P, Baker R, Pennington M, Donaldson C; 
EuroVaQ Team.

Author information:
(1)Norwich Medical School, University of East Anglia, Norwich, Norfolk, NR4 7TJ, 
UK. angela.robinson@uea.ac.uk

A major issue in health economic evaluation is that of the value to place on a 
quality adjusted life year (QALY), commonly used as a measure of health care 
effectiveness across Europe. This critical policy issue is reflected in the 
growing interest across Europe in development of more sound methods to elicit 
such a value. EuroVaQ was a collaboration of researchers from 9 European 
countries, the main aim being to develop more robust methods to determine the 
monetary value of a QALY based on surveys of the general public. The 'chained' 
approach of deriving a societal willingness-to-pay (WTP) based monetary value of 
a QALY used the following basic procedure. First, utility values were elicited 
for health states using the standard gamble (SG) and time trade off (TTO) 
methods. Second, a monetary value to avoid some risk/duration of that health 
state was elicited and the implied WTP per QALY estimated. We developed within 
EuroVaQ an adaptation to the 'chained approach' that attempts to overcome 
problems documented previously (in particular the tendency to arrive at 
exceedingly high WTP per QALY values). The survey was administered via Internet 
panels in each participating country and almost 22,000 responses achieved. 
Estimates of the value of a QALY varied across question and were, if anything, 
on the low side with the (trimmed) 'all country' mean WTP per QALY ranging from 
$18,247 to $34,097. Untrimmed means were considerably higher and medians 
considerably lower in each case. We conclude that the adaptation to the chained 
approach described here is a potentially useful technique for estimating WTP per 
QALY. A number of methodological challenges do still exist, however, and there 
is scope for further refinement.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.05.013
PMID: 23849283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Sep;92:114-23. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.04.028. Epub
2013  May 21.

Worker health is good for the economy: union density and psychosocial safety 
climate as determinants of country differences in worker health and productivity 
in 31 European countries.

Dollard MF(1), Neser DY.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Applied Psychological Research, School of Psychology, Social Work 
and Social Policy, University of South Australia, Magill Campus, Adelaide, 
Australia. Maureen.dollard@unisa.edu.au

Work stress is recognized globally as a social determinant of worker health. 
Therefore we explored whether work stress related factors explained national 
differences in health and productivity (gross domestic product (GDP)). We 
proposed a national worker health productivity model whereby macro market power 
factors (i.e. union density), influence national worker health and GDP via work 
psychosocial factors and income inequality. We combined five different data sets 
canvasing 31 wealthy European countries. Aggregated worker self-reported health 
accounted for 13 per cent of the variance in national life expectancy and in 
national gross domestic product (GDP). The most important factors explaining 
worker self-reported health and GDP between nations were two levels of labor 
protection, macro-level (union density), and organizational-level (psychosocial 
safety climate, PSC, i.e. the extent of management concern for worker 
psychological health). The majority of countries with the highest levels of 
union density and PSC (i.e., workplace protections) were Social Democratic in 
nature (i.e., Sweden, Finland, Denmark, Norway). Results support a type of 
society explanation that social and economic factors (e.g., welfare regimes, 
work related policies) in concert with political power agents at a national 
level explain in part national differences in workplace protection (PSC) that 
are important for worker health and productivity. Attention should be given 
across all countries, to national policies to improve worker health, by 
bolstering national and local democratic processes and representation to address 
and implement policies for psychosocial risk factors for work stress, bullying 
and violence. Results suggest worker health is good for the economy, and should 
be considered in national health and productivity accounting. Eroding unionism 
may not be good for worker health or the economy either.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.04.028
PMID: 23849285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. J Aging Stud. 2013 Aug;27(3):233-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jaging.2013.03.003. Epub
 2013 Apr 30.

Official conceptualizations of person-centered care: which person counts?

O'Dwyer C(1).

Author information:
(1)Collegio Carlo Alberto, Via Real Collegio, 30, 10024 Moncalieri, TO, Italy. 
ciara.odwyer@carloalberto.org

Numerous studies have indicated that a "psycho-social" person-centered care 
approach, involving the delivery of a compassionate, respectful model of care, 
leads to a high quality of life, particularly for older people living in 
residential care. This has prompted policy-makers to endorse this approach. Yet, 
some commentators have argued that the model of person-centered care in official 
government policies equates to a "consumer-based" rather than a psycho-social 
approach, as it focuses solely on offering service-users more choice and on 
promoting independence. However, as such arguments are made in the absence of 
any empirical analysis, it is unclear both whether such a distinction exists in 
practice, and, if so, how this alternative model developed. This study explores 
the development of minimum standards for residential care settings for older 
people in Ireland in order to address this gap in our understanding of 
person-centered care. Findings confirm that a consumer-driven model of 
person-centered care underpins the Irish Standards; residential care is 
portrayed as a hotel-like service and residents as discerning consumers, which 
may be unsuitable for older people in residential care with limited capacity to 
make key choices. Analysis indicates that this model can be seen both as an 
extension of consumer-driven policies endorsed by many neo-liberal governments, 
and also of policy-makers' fears of losing their autonomy when they reach the 
"Fourth Age". This study is particularly illuminating, given the similarities 
between the Irish care system with England, Scotland, Wales, Northern Ireland 
and Australia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaging.2013.03.003
PMID: 23849421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Eur J Cancer. 2013 Oct;49(15):3176-83. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2013.06.008. Epub
 2013 Jul 9.

Analysis of docetaxel therapy in elderly (≥70 years) castration resistant 
prostate cancer patients enrolled in the Netherlands Prostate Study.

Gerritse FL(1), Meulenbeld HJ, Roodhart JM, van der Velden AM, Blaisse RJ, 
Smilde TJ, Erjavec Z, de Wit R, Los M; NePro Study Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, St. Antonius Hospital, Nieuwegein, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer truly is an age-associated disease. Due to the 
increased life expectancy and more sensitive diagnostic techniques in the 
Western world, prostate cancer is diagnosed more frequently and with rapidly 
increasing incidence and prevalence rates. However, age above 65 or 70 years has 
been an exclusion criterion in clinical trials for decades and the knowledge 
about chemotherapy tolerance in elderly is limited.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective analysis of data acquired from the 
recently published Netherlands Prostate Study (NePro) to evaluate the influence 
of advanced age on docetaxel therapy in elderly men (>70 years) with castration 
resistant prostate cancer (CRPC) and bone metastases. Statistical analyses were 
performed stratified for age into four categories: <70 (n=315), 70-74 (n=150), 
75-79 (n=85), and ≥80 years old (n=18).
RESULTS: We analysed 568 patients (median age 68.1 years, range 46-89 years, 
44.5% aged ≥70 years). There was no relation between dosage and age (p=0.60). We 
found no significant differences between the number of dose reductions, time to 
progression (TTP), overall survival, chemotherapy tolerance and toxicity up to 
the age of 80 years. However, when compared to younger men, men aged 80 years or 
above more frequently experienced grade 3/4 toxicity and were five times less 
likely to complete the first three treatment cycles at the intended dose (Odds 
ratio (OR) 5.34, p=0.0052) and showed decreased overall survival (15.3 months 
versus 24.5 months in <80 years group, p=0.020).
CONCLUSION: In CRPC patients up to the age of 80 years, docetaxel chemotherapy 
is well tolerated, with toxicity levels and TTP comparable to those of younger 
patients. For chemotherapeutic treatment of patients above the age of 80 years 
an individual assessment should be made.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2013.06.008
PMID: 23849828 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Lancet. 2013 Jul 13;382(9887):126. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61560-3.

Health in the occupied Palestinian territory.

Feldman Z.

Comment on
    Lancet. 2013 Mar 23;381(9871):995.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61560-3
PMID: 23849922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Sep;93:176-9. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.06.007. Epub
2013  Jun 21.

Politics, policies and population health: a commentary on Mackenbach, Hu and 
Looman (2013).

Pega F(1), Kawachi I, Rasanathan K, Lundberg O.

Author information:
(1)Health Inequalities Research Programme, University of Otago, Wellington, PO 
Box 7343, Wellington, New Zealand. frank.pega@otago.ac.nz

Comment in
    Soc Sci Med. 2013 Sep;93:180.

Comment on
    Soc Sci Med. 2013 Sep;93:166-75.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.06.007
PMID: 23850006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. J Nutr Educ Behav. 2014 Jan;46(1):43-53. doi: 10.1016/j.jneb.2013.03.013.
Epub  2013 Jul 11.

Field assessments for obesity prevention in children and adults: physical 
activity, fitness, and body composition.

Lindsay AR(1), Hongu N(2), Spears K(3), Idris R(4), Dyrek A(1), Manore MM(5).

Author information:
(1)University Nevada Cooperative Extension, Las Vegas, NV.
(2)Department of Nutritional Sciences, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ.
(3)Department of Nutrition, University of Nevada, Reno, NV.
(4)Department of Family and Consumer Sciences, South Carolina State University, 
Orangeburg, SC.
(5)Department of Nutrition/Exercise Sciences, Oregon State University, 
Corvallis, OR. Electronic address: Melinda.manore@oregonstate.edu.

Comment in
    J Nutr Educ Behav. 2014 Jan;46(1):1.

Nutrition and health educators work in community settings implementing lifestyle 
programs focused on obesity prevention and chronic disease risk reduction. These 
programs typically focus on improving diet and physical activity (PA) behaviors. 
Many nutrition educators may not be confident in their ability to select, 
administer, and interpret PA assessments to effectively evaluate their PA or 
lifestyle programs. This report will assist educators in identifying and 
selecting appropriate field-based assessments for measurement of PA, physical 
fitness, and body composition for children and adults. Specific guidelines, 
references, and resources are given for selecting assessment methods and test 
within these 3 areas.

Copyright © 2014 Society for Nutrition Education and Behavior. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jneb.2013.03.013
PMID: 23850013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. World Neurosurg. 2014 Dec;82(6):1359-68. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.06.012.
Epub  2013 Jul 11.

Is spinal cord stimulation safe? A review of its complications.

Bendersky D(1), Yampolsky C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires, Ciudad 
Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina. Electronic address: 
damian.bendersky@hospitalitaliano.org.ar.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires, Ciudad 
Autónoma de Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Comment in
    World Neurosurg. 2014 Dec;82(6):1048-9.

OBJECTIVE: We aim to evaluate the complications of spinal cord stimulation 
(SCS).
METHODS: This article is a nonsystematic review of literature about the safety 
of SCS. The complications of this technique are described, focusing the analysis 
in their prevention, diagnosis, and treatment.
RESULTS: Electrode migration is the most common complication of SCS and it is 
more frequent with percutaneous electrodes than with paddle-type ones. Lead 
migration may be solved by reprogramming the stimulator, but if it fails, 
surgical repositioning is mandatory. Several anchoring techniques are described 
in the text. Infection is a potentially reducible complication associated with 
the surgical procedure and the reported infection rates are comparable with 
those of several neuromodulation devices. Recommendations for the prevention of 
SCS device infections are listed in the article. Other complications were 
reviewed such as electrode fracture, extension wire or implantable pulse 
generator failures, cerebrospinal fluid leakage, pain over the stimulator, and 
spinal epidural hematoma, among others.
CONCLUSION: In spite of the existence of several complications, SCS may be seen 
as a safe technique. Furthermore, the incidence of life-threatening 
complications is low. The physician must be alert to recognize them during the 
follow-up. Complications may be avoided or at least diminished by performing a 
proper and strict aseptic surgical technique as well as carrying out an accurate 
patient selection before the implantation, according to the recommendations 
published in the literature.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.06.012
PMID: 23851231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Optom Vis Sci. 2013 Aug;90(8):861-6. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000000004.

Utility of EQ-5D to assess patients undergoing cataract surgery.

Ang M(1), Fenwick E, Wong TY, Lamoureux E, Luo N.

Author information:
(1)Singapore National Eye Centre, Singapore, Singapore.

PURPOSE: To assess the construct validity and responsiveness of the EuroQoL-5D 
(EQ-5D) instrument in Asian patients undergoing cataract surgery in Singapore.
METHODS: In this prospective study, English- or Chinese-speaking patients (n = 
216) completed the EQ-5D and the VF-14 questionnaires before and 3 months after 
they underwent cataract surgery. The impact of cataracts on patients was 
assessed using two standard gamble (SG) questions before surgery. Construct 
validity of the EQ-5D index and the visual analog scale (VAS) was assessed by 
examining their correlation with the VF-14 and SG scores. Responsiveness of the 
EQ-5D was compared with that of the VF-14 in terms of the magnitude of score 
change associated with cataract surgery.
RESULTS: We found that the EQ-5D index correlated with VF-14, SG (death), and SG 
(blindness) (Pearson r = 0.30, 0.23 and 0.24, respectively; p < 0.01). In 
contrast, we found no correlation between the EQ-VAS, VF-14, and SG scores. The 
mean EQ-5D index (difference, 0.06; effect size, 0.35) and VF-14 score 
(difference, 1.75; effect size, 0.97) of patients improved after cataract 
surgery (p < 0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that the EQ-5D utility index is a valid and 
responsive outcome measure for evaluating the impact of cataract surgery in our 
Asian population. However, the implications of using the generic EQ-5D 
instrument to assess the cost-effectiveness of surgical interventions for visual 
impairment require further investigation.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000000004
PMID: 23851304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Sep 15;178(6):974-83. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwt054. Epub
2013  Jul 12.

Predicting life expectancy for community-dwelling older adults from Medicare 
claims data.

Tan A, Kuo YF, Goodwin JS.

Estimates of life expectancy are useful in assessing whether different 
prevention strategies are appropriate in different populations. We developed 
sex-specific Cox proportional-hazard models that use Medicare claims data to 
predict life expectancy and risk of death at up to 10 years for older adults. We 
identified a cohort of Medicare beneficiaries 66-90 years of age from the 5% 
Medicare claims data in 2000 (n = 1,137,311) and tracked each subject's vital 
status until December 31, 2009. Subjects were split randomly into training and 
validation samples. Models were developed from the training sample and validated 
by comparison of predicted to actual survival in the validation sample. The C 
statistics for the models including predictors of age and Elixhauser 
comorbidities were 0.76-0.79 for men and women for prediction of death at the 
1-, 5-, 7-, and 10-year follow-up periods. More than 80% of subjects with <25% 
risk of death at 5, 7, and 10 years survived longer than the chosen cutoff 
years. More than 80% of subjects with ≥75% risk of death at 5, 7, and 10 years 
died by those cutoff years. The models overestimated the risk of death at 1 year 
for the high-risk groups. Sex-specific models that use age and Elixhauser 
comorbidities can accurately predict patient life expectancy and risk of death 
at 5-10 years.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwt054
PMCID: PMC3775541
PMID: 23851579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. Surg Today. 2014 Jun;44(6):992-1003. doi: 10.1007/s00595-013-0663-9. Epub
2013  Jul 14.

Contemporary strategy for aortic valve stenosis in octogenarians.

Tsukui H(1), Yamazaki K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Tokyo Women's Medical University, 8-1 
Kawada Shinjuku, Tokyo, 162-8666, Japan, htsukui@wf7.so-net.ne.jp.

The number of patients with aortic stenosis (AS) has been increasing over recent 
decades with the longer life expectancy of the general population. AS is 
life-threatening without surgery and since many elderly patients have a variety 
of comorbid conditions, 30-40 % of those with severe AS have been denied 
surgery. However, recent data on standard aortic valve replacement (AVR) for 
octogenarians have revealed excellent outcomes, with 2.4-6.8 % early mortality 
and similar survival rates of octogenarians who undergo AVR vs. the general 
population. The reported incidences of postoperative stroke, dialysis, and 
pacemaker implantation were 2.4, 2.6, and 4.6 %, respectively. Transcatheter 
aortic valve replacement (TAVR) is the alternative therapy for patients who are 
not able to undergo standard AVR and it is developing rapidly. The placement of 
aortic transcatheter valves (PARTNER) trial showed acceptable early outcomes. 
The mortality rates from any cause were 3.4 % in the TAVR group and 6.5 % in the 
AVR group at 30 days, 24.2 and 26.8 % at 1 year, and 33.9 and 35.0 % at 2 years, 
respectively. Stroke rate was higher in the TAVR group than in the AVR group 
(3.4 vs. 1.9 %). Vascular complications and paravalvular leakage are frequent 
procedure-related complications, which must be addressed because they are 
associated with increased mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-013-0663-9
PMID: 23851588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. J Craniofac Surg. 2013 Jul;24(4):1314-6. doi: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e3182953a39.

The use of an acellular dermal matrix "sandwich" for the successful treatment of 
a persistent cranial cerebrospinal fluid fistula.

Mericli AF(1), Gampper TJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plastic Surgery, University of Virginia Health System, 
Charlottesville, VA 22908, USA.

Cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) fistulae are problematic because of the high risk of 
meningitis and other infectious complications, as well as the potential for 
critically delaying chemotherapy in cases associated with malignancy. The 
plastic surgical literature suggests vascularized autologous tissue for the 
treatment of chronically draining CSF fistulae. Many of these patients, however, 
are debilitated, have multiple comorbidities, and may have a limited life 
expectancy, making the lengthy surgery and the associated donor-site morbidity 
of a regional or free tissue transfer procedure unattractive. There is a need 
for an alternative procedure that is a less morbid, yet equally effective 
solution for the obliteration of CSF fistulae. Herein we report the first use of 
acellular dermal matrix to successfully seal a persistent cranial CSF fistula.

DOI: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e3182953a39
PMID: 23851796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. BMJ. 2013 Jul 12;347:f4494. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f4494.

US lags behind economic peers on health outcomes.

McCarthy M.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f4494
PMID: 23852010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. J Obes. 2013;2013:206074. doi: 10.1155/2013/206074. Epub 2013 Jun 19.

Obesity and preference-weighted quality of life of ethnically diverse middle 
school children: the HEALTHY study.

Treviño RP(1), Pham TH, Edelstein SL.

Author information:
(1)Social and Health Research Center, San Antonio, TX 78210, USA. 
rtrevino@sahrc.org

To date, studies examining the relation between body mass index percentile 
(BMI%) categories and health-related quality of life (QOL) measurements have not 
reported preference-weighted scores among ethnically diverse children. We report 
the associations between BMI% categories and preference-weighted scores among a 
large cohort of ethnically diverse sixth grade children who participated in the 
HEALTHY school-based type 2 diabetes risk factor prevention study. Health 
Utility Index 2 (HUI2) and Health Utility Index 3 (HUI3) and the feeling 
thermometer (FT) were the preference-weighted QOL instruments used to measure 
student's preference scores. Of 6358 consented students, 4979 (78.3%) had 
complete QOL, height, weight, and covariate data. Mean (SD) preference scores 
were 0.846 (0.160), 0.796 (0.237), and 0.806 (0.161) for the HUI2, HUI3, and FT, 
respectively. After adjusting for age, sex, blood glucose and insulin, Tanner 
stage, race/ethnicity, family history of diabetes, and educational attainment, 
children with severe obesity (>99%) had significantly lower preference scores 
compared to normal weight on all three instruments (HUI2 P = 0.013; HUI3 P = 
0.025; and FT P < 0.001). Obese and severe obese categories were significantly 
associated with lower HUI2 functional ratings in the mobility domain and with 
lower HUI3 functional ratings in the speech domain.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/206074
PMCID: PMC3703726
PMID: 23853717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2013 Jul 15;14:208. doi: 10.1186/1471-2474-14-208.

Strength Training for Arthritis Trial (START): design and rationale.

Messier SP, Mihalko SL, Beavers DP, Nicklas BJ, DeVita P, Carr JJ, Hunter DJ, 
Williamson JD, Bennell KL, Guermazi A, Lyles M, Loeser RF.

BACKGROUND: Muscle loss and fat gain contribute to the disability, pain, and 
morbidity associated with knee osteoarthritis (OA), and thigh muscle weakness is 
an independent and modifiable risk factor for it. However, while all published 
treatment guidelines recommend muscle strengthening exercise to combat loss of 
muscle mass and strength in knee OA patients, previous strength training studies 
either used intensities or loads below recommended levels for healthy adults or 
were generally short, lasting only 6 to 24 weeks. The efficacy of high-intensity 
strength training in improving OA symptoms, slowing progression, and affecting 
the underlying mechanisms has not been examined due to the unsubstantiated 
belief that it might exacerbate symptoms. We hypothesize that in addition to 
short-term clinical benefits, combining greater duration with high-intensity 
strength training will alter thigh composition sufficiently to attain long-term 
reductions in knee-joint forces, lower pain levels, decrease inflammatory 
cytokines, and slow OA progression.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is an assessor-blind, randomized controlled trial. The 
study population consists of 372 older (age ≥ 55 yrs) ambulatory, 
community-dwelling persons with: (1) mild-to-moderate medial tibiofemoral OA 
(Kellgren-Lawrence (KL) = 2 or 3); (2) knee neutral or varus aligned knee ( -2° 
valgus ≤ angle ≤ 10° varus); (3) 20 kg.m-2 ≥ BMI ≤ 45 kg.m-2; and (3) no 
participation in a formal strength-training program for more than 30 minutes per 
week within the past 6 months. Participants are randomized to one of 3 groups: 
high-intensity strength training (75-90% 1Repetition Maximum (1RM)); 
low-intensity strength training (30-40%1RM); or healthy living education. The 
primary clinical aim is to compare the interventions' effects on knee pain, and 
the primary mechanistic aim is to compare their effects on knee-joint 
compressive forces during walking, a mechanism that affects the OA disease 
pathway. Secondary aims will compare the interventions' effects on additional 
clinical measures of disease severity (e.g., function, mobility); disease 
progression measured by x-ray; thigh muscle and fat volume, measured by computed 
tomography (CT); components of thigh muscle function, including hip abductor 
strength and quadriceps strength, and power; additional measures of knee-joint 
loading; inflammatory and OA biomarkers; and health-related quality of life.
DISCUSSION: Test-retest reliability for the thigh CT scan was: total thigh 
volume, intra-class correlation coefficients (ICC) = 0.99; total fat volume, 
ICC = 0.99, and total muscle volume, ICC = 0.99. ICC for both isokinetic 
concentric knee flexion and extension strength was 0.93, and for hip-abductor 
concentric strength was 0.99. The reliability of our 1RM testing was: leg press, 
ICC = 0.95; leg curl, ICC = 0.99; and leg extension, ICC = 0.98. Results of this 
trial will provide critically needed guidance for clinicians in a variety of 
health professions who prescribe and oversee treatment and prevention of 
OA-related complications. Given the prevalence and impact of OA and the 
widespread availability of this intervention, assessing the efficacy of optimal 
strength training has the potential for immediate and vital clinical impact.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov, NCT01489462.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2474-14-208
PMCID: PMC3722013
PMID: 23855596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. J Pers. 2014 Dec;82(6):551-62. doi: 10.1111/jopy.12057. Epub 2013 Sep 3.

Individual differences in the relationship transition context: links to 
physiological outcomes.

Keneski E(1), Schoenfeld EA, Loving TJ.

Author information:
(1)The University of Texas at Austin.

The identification of relationship-relevant individual differences is central to 
elucidating how relationship experiences differentially impact individuals' 
health. To this end, we highlight the utility of studying the influence of 
individual differences on physiological outcomes (e.g., cortisol reactivity and 
recovery) in the context of normative relationship transitions. We argue that 
relationship transitions, such as falling in love and the process of committing 
to marry one's partner, amplify the influence of individual differences on 
relationship processes and, by extension, on physiological outcomes. Two such 
individual differences are highlighted-namely, relationship-focused processing 
and dependence-and suggestions for future work are provided.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/jopy.12057
PMID: 23855928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Rev Pneumol Clin. 2013 Aug;69(4):225-8. doi: 10.1016/j.pneumo.2013.05.008.
Epub  2013 Jul 12.

[News in cystic fibrosis].

[Article in French]

Delaisi B.

The improvement over the last two decades in the treatment of cystic fibrosis 
led to an increase in life expectancy approaching 40 years at birth. Logically, 
the population of adult patients has been increasing and is currently 50% of 
patients followed in France. These therapeutic advances have justified the 
establishment in 2003 of a generalized neonatal screening for cystic fibrosis. 
The latest data of this screening show an incidence of CF of 1/5359 live births, 
far below the incidence of 1/2500 which was widely accepted twenty years ago. 
The performance of this screening is currently based on the dosage of trypsin 
immuno reactive, followed in case of exceeding the threshold of a search of the 
30 most common mutations, can detect around 96% of 150 to 200 CF cases every 
year. Therefore, the possibility of a false negative of the screening cannot be 
excluded and evocative symptoms of cystic fibrosis, even for children born after 
2003, will lead to prescribe a sweat test. While treatments available so far 
goal consequences of cystic fibrosis, a new therapeutic class to correct the 
functional defect of the mutated protein, called CFTR modulators, is emerging. 
Ivacaftor, leader of this new class, belonging to the category of "CFTR 
potentiator" got its access on the market in September 2012 for patients 
carrying the G551D mutation. New other molecules, named "CFTR correctors" which 
can have synergistic effect with ivacaftor and concern patients carrying the 
most common mutation--DF 508--are under development.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pneumo.2013.05.008
PMID: 23856023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Eur Urol. 2013 Sep;64(3):347-54. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2013.06.051. Epub
2013  Jul 9.

Early detection of prostate cancer: European Association of Urology 
recommendation.

Heidenreich A(1), Abrahamsson PA, Artibani W, Catto J, Montorsi F, Van Poppel H, 
Wirth M, Mottet N; European Association of Urology.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, RWTH University Aachen, Aachen, Germany. 
aheidenreich@ukaachen.de

BACKGROUND: The recommendations and the updated EAU guidelines consider early 
detection of PCa with the purpose of reducing PCa-related mortality and the 
development of advanced or metastatic disease.
OBJECTIVE: This paper presents the recommendations of the European Association 
of Urology (EAU) for early detection of prostate cancer (PCa) in men without 
evidence of PCa-related symptoms.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: The working panel conducted a systematic literature review 
and meta-analysis of prospective and retrospective clinical studies on baseline 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) and early detection of PCa and on PCa screening 
published between 1990 and 2013 using Cochrane Reviews, Embase, and Medline 
search strategies.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: The level of evidence and grade of recommendation were 
analysed according to the principles of evidence-based medicine. The current 
strategy of the EAU recommends that (1) early detection of PCa reduces 
PCa-related mortality; (2) early detection of PCa reduces the risk of being 
diagnosed and developing advanced and metastatic PCa; (3) a baseline serum PSA 
level should be obtained at 40-45 yr of age; (4) intervals for early detection 
of PCa should be adapted to the baseline PSA serum concentration; (5) early 
detection should be offered to men with a life expectancy ≥ 10 yr; and (6) in 
the future, multivariable clinical risk-prediction tools need to be integrated 
into the decision-making process.
CONCLUSIONS: A baseline serum PSA should be offered to all men 40-45 yr of age 
to initiate a risk-adapted follow-up approach with the purpose of reducing PCa 
mortality and the incidence of advanced and metastatic PCa. In the future, the 
development and application of multivariable risk-prediction tools will be 
necessary to prevent over diagnosis and over treatment.

Copyright © 2013 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2013.06.051
PMID: 23856038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2014 Feb;47(2):271-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2013.03.020. Epub 2013 Jul 12.

Predictive factors for do-not-resuscitate designation among terminally ill 
cancer patients receiving care from a palliative care consultation service.

Kao CY(1), Wang HM(1), Tang SC(2), Huang KG(3), Jaing TH(4), Liu CY(5), Liu 
KH(6), Shen WC(1), Wu JH(1), Hung YS(1), Hsu HC(1), Chen JS(1), Liau CT(1), Lin 
YC(1), Su PJ(1), Hsieh CH(1), Chou WC(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung 
University College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan, Republic of China.
(2)Department of Nursing, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University 
College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan, Republic of China.
(3)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and 
Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan, Republic of China.
(4)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Pediatrics, Chang Gung 
Children's Hospital and Chang Gung University College of Medicine, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan, Republic of China.
(5)Department of Thoracic Medicine, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung 
University College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan, Republic of China.
(6)Department of Surgery, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung University 
College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan, Republic of China.
(7)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital and Chang Gung 
University College of Medicine, Taoyuan, Taiwan, Republic of China. Electronic 
address: wenchi3992@yahoo.com.tw.

CONTEXT: Since the development of palliative care in the 1980s, "do not 
resuscitate" (DNR) has been promoted worldwide to avoid unnecessary 
resuscitation in terminally ill cancer patients.
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to evaluate the effect of a palliative care 
consultation service (PCCS) on DNR designation and to identify a subgroup of 
patients who would potentially benefit from care by the PCCS with respect to DNR 
designation.
METHODS: In total, 2995 terminally ill cancer patients (with a predicted life 
expectancy of less than six months by clinician estimate) who received care by 
the PCCS between January 2006 and December 2010 at a single medical center in 
Taiwan were selected. Among these, the characteristics of 2020 (67.4%) patients 
who were not designated as DNR at the beginning of care by the PCCS were 
retrospectively analyzed to identify variables pertinent to DNR designation.
RESULTS: A total of 1301 (64%) of 2020 patients were designated as DNR at the 
end of care by the PCCS. Male gender and primary liver cancer were 
characteristics more predominantly found among DNR-designated patients who also 
had worse performance status, higher prevalence of physical distress, and 
shorter intervals from palliative care referral to death than did patients 
without DNR designation. On univariate analysis, a higher probability of DNR 
designation was associated with male gender, duration of care by the PCCS of 
more than 14 days, patients' prognostic awareness, family's diagnostic and 
prognostic awareness, and high Palliative Prognostic Index (PPI) scores. On 
multivariate analysis, duration of care by the PCCS, patients' prognostic 
awareness, family's diagnostic and prognostic awareness, and a high PPI score 
constituted independent variables predicting DNR-designated patients at the end 
of care by the PCCS.
CONCLUSION: DNR designation was late in terminally ill cancer patients. 
DNR-designated cancer patient indicators were high PPI scores, patients' 
prognostic awareness, family's diagnostic and prognostic awareness, and longer 
durations of care by the PCCS.

Copyright © 2014 U.S. Cancer Pain Relief Committee. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2013.03.020
PMID: 23856097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Zhonghua Nei Ke Za Zhi. 2013 Mar;52(3):179-80.

[The prevention and control of cerebrovascular disease: the key strategy to 
prolong the life expectancy in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao D.

PMID: 23856104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Zhonghua Nei Ke Za Zhi. 2013 Mar;52(3):188-91.

[An evaluation of the impact of cerebrovascular disease deaths on life 
expectancy in China].

[Article in Chinese]

Li GQ(1), Fan J, Liu J, Wang W, Wang M, Xie WX, Qi Y, Liu J, Sun JY, Li Y, Zhao 
D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Capital Medical University Beijing Anzhen 
Hospital, Beijing 100029, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the impact of cerebrovascular death on the life 
expectancy of Chinese residents in recent years and explore the difference in 
the subgroups.
METHODS: Life expectancy and cause-elimination life expectancy were calculated 
by standard life table techniques using the adjusted mortality data from the 
Death Surveillance Data Sets in 2005 and 2010 provided by the National Disease 
Surveillance System. Decomposition method was used to quantitatively evaluate 
the impact of cerebrovascular disease.
RESULTS: The life expectancy of Chinese residents was 73.23 years old in 2010. 
The loss of life expectancy caused by cerebrovascular death was 2.26 years in 
2010, with about 97% of that came from the elimination of deaths in the 
residents aged over 40 years old. Compared with 2005, the reduction of 
cerebrovascular deaths contributed to a total of 0.04 years increase in the life 
expectancy of Chinese residents in 2010, with 0.45 years for urban residents. 
However, for the rural residents, cerebrovascular death increased and caused 
0.12 years decrease of life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: The impact of cerebrovascular death on the life expectancy of 
Chinese residents is still great. Significant difference is showed between the 
urban and rural areas with reduction in the urban but increase in the rural. The 
life expectancy is likely to be further increased by reducing cerebrovascular 
death in the Chinese residents aged over 40 years old.

PMID: 23856107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. J Epidemiol Glob Health. 2013 Mar;3(1):49-57. doi:
10.1016/j.jegh.2012.12.007.  Epub 2013 Feb 4.

Polity and health care expenditures: the association among 159 nations.

Gregorio LE(1), Gregorio DI.

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut School of Medicine, Farmington, CT 06030, USA.

This paper hypothesized that democratic nations, as characterized by Polity IV 
Project regime scores, spend more on health care than autocratic nations and 
that the association reported here is independent of other demographic, health 
system or economic characteristics of nations. WHO Global Observatory data on 
159 nations with roughly 98% of the world's population were examined. Regime 
scores had significant, direct and independent associations with each of four 
measures of health care expenditure. For every unit increment in a nation's 
regime score toward a more democratic authority structure of governance, we 
