
DOI: 10.1097/EDE.0b013e3182953de0
PMCID: PMC4706731
PMID: 23732746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2013 Jul;9(7):1500-11. doi: 10.4161/hv.24704. Epub
2013  May 31.

Influenza vaccines in low and middle income countries: a systematic review of 
economic evaluations.

Ott JJ(1), Klein Breteler J, Tam JS, Hutubessy RC, Jit M, de Boer MR.

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization; Initiative for Vaccine Research; Geneva, 
Switzerland; Helmholtz Centre for Infection Research; Department of 
Epidemiology; Braunschweig, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Economic evaluations on influenza vaccination from low resource 
settings are scarce and have not been evaluated using a systematic approach. Our 
objective was to conduct a systematic review on the value for money of influenza 
vaccination in low- and middle-income countries.
METHODS: PubMed and EMBASE were searched for economic evaluations published in 
any language between 1960 and 2011. Main outcome measures were costs per 
influenza outcome averted, costs per quality-adjusted life years gained or 
disability-adjusted life years averted, costs per benefit in monetary units or 
cost-benefit ratios.
RESULTS: Nine economic evaluations on seasonal influenza vaccine met the 
inclusion criteria. These were model- or randomized-controlled-trial (RCT)-based 
economic evaluations from middle-income countries. Influenza vaccination 
provided value for money for elderly, infants, adults and children with 
high-risk conditions. Vaccination was cost-effective and cost-saving for chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease patients and in elderly above 65 y from 
model-based evaluations, but conclusions from RCTs on elderly varied.
CONCLUSION: Economic evaluations from middle income regions differed in 
population studied, outcomes and definitions used. Most findings are in line 
with evidence from high-income countries highlighting that influenza vaccine is 
likely to provide value for money. However, serious methodological limitations 
do not allow drawing conclusions on cost-effectiveness of influenza vaccination 
in middle income countries. Evidence on cost-effectiveness from low-income 
countries is lacking altogether, and more information is needed from full 
economic evaluations that are conducted in a standardized manner.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.24704
PMCID: PMC3890229
PMID: 23732900 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2013 Jun;148(6 Suppl):S1-37. doi: 
10.1177/0194599813487301.

Clinical practice guideline: improving voice outcomes after thyroid surgery.

Chandrasekhar SS(1), Randolph GW, Seidman MD, Rosenfeld RM, Angelos P, 
Barkmeier-Kraemer J, Benninger MS, Blumin JH, Dennis G, Hanks J, Haymart MR, 
Kloos RT, Seals B, Schreibstein JM, Thomas MA, Waddington C, Warren B, Robertson 
PJ; American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery.

Author information:
(1)New York Otology, New York, New York 10028, USA. newyorkotology@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: Thyroidectomy may be performed for clinical indications that include 
malignancy, benign nodules or cysts, suspicious findings on fine needle 
aspiration biopsy, dysphagia from cervical esophageal compression, or dyspnea 
from airway compression. About 1 in 10 patients experience temporary laryngeal 
nerve injury after surgery, with longer lasting voice problems in up to 1 in 25. 
Reduced quality of life after thyroid surgery is multifactorial and may include 
the need for lifelong medication, thyroid suppression, radioactive 
scanning/treatment, temporary and permanent hypoparathyroidism, temporary or 
permanent dysphonia postoperatively, and dysphagia. This clinical practice 
guideline provides evidence-based recommendations for management of the 
patient's voice when undergoing thyroid surgery during the preoperative, 
intraoperative, and postoperative period.
PURPOSE: The purpose of this guideline is to optimize voice outcomes for adult 
patients aged 18 years or older after thyroid surgery. The target audience is 
any clinician involved in managing such patients, which includes but may not be 
limited to otolaryngologists, general surgeons, endocrinologists, internists, 
speech-language pathologists, family physicians and other primary care 
providers, anesthesiologists, nurses, and others who manage patients with 
thyroid/voice issues. The guideline applies to any setting in which clinicians 
may interact with patients before, during, or after thyroid surgery. Children 
under age 18 years are specifically excluded from the target population; 
however, the panel understands that many of the findings may be applicable to 
this population. Also excluded are patients undergoing concurrent laryngectomy. 
Although this guideline is limited to thyroidectomy, some of the recommendations 
may extrapolate to parathyroidectomy as well.
RESULTS: The guideline development group made a strong recommendation that the 
surgeon should identify the recurrent laryngeal nerve(s) during thyroid surgery. 
The group made recommendations that the clinician or surgeon should (1) document 
assessment of the patient's voice once a decision has been made to proceed with 
thyroid surgery; (2) examine vocal fold mobility, or refer the patient to a 
clinician who can examine vocal fold mobility, if the patient's voice is 
impaired and a decision has been made to proceed with thyroid surgery; (3) 
examine vocal fold mobility, or refer the patient to a clinician who can examine 
vocal fold mobility, once a decision has been made to proceed with thyroid 
surgery if the patient's voice is normal and the patient has (a) thyroid cancer 
with suspected extrathyroidal extension, or (b) prior neck surgery that 
increases the risk of laryngeal nerve injury (carotid endarterectomy, anterior 
approach to the cervical spine, cervical esophagectomy, and prior thyroid or 
parathyroid surgery), or (c) both; (4) educate the patient about the potential 
impact of thyroid surgery on voice once a decision has been made to proceed with 
thyroid surgery; (5) inform the anesthesiologist of the results of abnormal 
preoperative laryngeal assessment in patients who have had laryngoscopy prior to 
thyroid surgery; (6) take steps to preserve the external branch of the surperior 
laryngeal nerve(s) when performing thyroid surgery; (7) document whether there 
has been a change in voice between 2 weeks and 2 months following thyroid 
surgery; (8) examine vocal fold mobility or refer the patient for examination of 
vocal fold mobility in patients with a change in voice following thyroid 
surgery; (9) refer a patient to an otolaryngologist when abnormal vocal fold 
mobility is identified after thyroid surgery; (10) counsel patients with voice 
change or abnormal vocal fold mobility after thyroid surgery on options for 
voice rehabilitation. The group made an option that the surgeon or his or her 
designee may monitor laryngeal electromyography during thyroid surgery. The 
group made no recommendation regarding the impact of a single intraoperative 
dose of intravenous corticosteroid on voice outcomes in patients undergoing 
thyroid surgery.

DOI: 10.1177/0194599813487301
PMID: 23733893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


197. Appl Res Qual Life. 2013 Jun 1;8(2):219-250. doi: 10.1007/s11482-012-9188-4.

A Systematic Review of Quality of Life Measures in Pregnant and Postpartum 
Mothers.

Mogos MF(1), August EM, Salinas-Miranda AA, Sultan DH, Salihu HM.

Author information:
(1)Maternal & Child Health Comparative Effectiveness Research Group, Department 
of Epidemiology & Biostatistics, College of Public Health, University of South 
Florida, 13201 Bruce B. Downs Blvd., MDC 56, Tampa, FL 33612, USA.

Quality of life has emerged as an essential health component that broadens the 
traditionally narrow concerns focused on only morbidity and life expectancy. 
Although a growing number of tools to measure quality of life are in 
circulation, there is a lack of guidelines as well as rigorous assessment for 
their use with pregnant and postpartum populations. It is also unclear whether 
these instruments could validly be employed to measure patient-reported outcomes 
in comparative effectiveness research of maternal care interventions. This paper 
reviews articles cited in CINAHL, COCHRANE, EMBASE, PSYCINFO, and PUBMED that 
addressed quality of life in pregnant and postpartum populations. Instruments 
used to measure quality of life in selected articles were assessed for their 
adherence to international guidelines for health outcomes instrument development 
and validation. The authors identified 129 articles that addressed quality of 
life in pregnant and/or postpartum women. Out of these, only 64 quality (generic 
and specific) scales were judged relevant to be included in this study. Analysis 
of measurement scales used in the pregnant and/or postpartum populations 
revealed important validity, reliability and psychometric inadequacies that 
negate their use in comparative effectiveness analysis in pregnant and 
post-partum populations. Valid, reliable, and responsive instruments to measure 
patient-reported outcomes in pregnant and postpartum populations are lacking. To 
demonstrate the effectiveness of various treatment and prevention programs, 
future research to develop and validate a robust and responsive quality of life 
measurement scale in pregnant and postpartum populations is needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11482-012-9188-4
PMCID: PMC3667203
PMID: 23734167


198. J R Coll Physicians Edinb. 2013;43(2):144-50. doi: 10.4997/JRCPE.2013.212.

Cystic fibrosis.

Leitch AE(1), Rodgers HC.

Author information:
(1)Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.

There are now more adult than paediatric cystic fibrosis (CF) patients and their 
life expectancy continues to improve. This means that CF patients will be more 
commonly encountered in a variety of hospital settings including fertility 
services, gastrointestinal (GI) clinics, diabetes clinics, surgical wards, and 
acute admissions. Cystic fibrosis units welcome early contact when patients are 
admitted to other units and it is important to have a structured approach to 
their assessment and management.

DOI: 10.4997/JRCPE.2013.212
PMID: 23734358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Adv Gerontol. 2012;25(4):582-8.

[Gerontological aspects of age-dependent mortality from malignant neoplasms of 
the population in the Russian Federation].

[Article in Russian]

Mamaev VB, Burlakova EB, Kuznetsov LV.

The demographic analysis of population-age mortality from malignant neoplasms of 
the population of RF in the years 1980-2008 enables to see the real presentation 
of the positive impact of medicine and the negative impact of the environment, 
but also to reveal fundamental biological processes that determine the health 
and life expectancy of Russian men and women. The authors allocate the leading 
role in the origin and development of malignant tumors for the aging process.

PMID: 23734501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Adv Gerontol. 2012;25(4):648-53.

[Effect of physical activity on age involution of functional abilities of 
humans].

[Article in Russian]

Miskotnykh VV, Khodasevich LS, Mel'tser VL.

A survey of 433 healthy, mature- and middle-aged men with different modes of 
habitual daily physical activity was made. Depending on the modes of motor 
activity all the surveyed were divided into 4 groups, each of which has been 
ranked by the ten-year age interval. The assessment of functional status using 
automated hardware-software complex "AMSAT-Covert" to determine the level of 
maximum oxygen consumption, lipid peroxidation and activity of the antioxidant 
defense system was performed. Results of the study enabled the authors to 
formulate a provision under which to extend the period of active, creative 
longevity and increased life expectancy we need to review the approaches to the 
regulation of physical activity by rationally constructed motor mode as part of 
a comprehensive system of health protection. Exercises, not increasing the 
requirements to the functionality involved and not causing physiological changes 
should be included in the recommended motor mode, which are incomparably less 
than officially accepted in modern practice fitness training.

PMID: 23734511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Ther Apher Dial. 2013 Jun;17(3):298-304. doi:
10.1111/j.1744-9987.2012.01144.x.  Epub 2012 Dec 11.

Cause-specific excess mortality among dialysis patients: comparison with the 
general population in Japan.

Wakasugi M(1), Kazama JJ, Yamamoto S, Kawamura K, Narita I.

Author information:
(1)Center for Inter-organ Communication Research, Niigata University Graduate 
School of Medical and Dental Science, Asahimachi 1-757, Chuo-ku, Niigata 
951-8510, Japan. minakowa@med.niigata-u.ac.jp

Despite significant therapeutic advances, mortality of dialysis patients remains 
unacceptably high. The aim of this study is to compare mortality and its causes 
in dialysis patients with those in the general Japanese population. We used data 
for 2008 and 2009 from the Japanese Society for Dialysis Therapy registry and a 
national Vital Statistics survey. Cardiovascular mortality was defined as death 
attributed to heart failure, cerebrovascular disorders, myocardial infarction, 
hyperkalemia/sudden death, and pulmonary thromboembolism. Non-cardiovascular 
mortality was defined as death attributed to infection, malignancies, 
cachexia/uremia, chronic hepatitis/cirrhosis, ileus, bleeding, suicide/refusal 
of treatment, and miscellaneous. We calculated standardized mortality ratios and 
age-adjusted mortality differences between dialysis patients and the general 
population for all-cause, cardiovascular versus non-cardiovascular, and 
cause-specific mortality. During the 2-year study period, there were 2,284,272 
and 51,432 deaths out of 126 million people and 273,237 dialysis patients, 
respectively. The standardized mortality ratio for all-cause mortality was 4.6 
(95% confidence interval, 4.6-4.7) for the dialysis patients compared to the 
general population. Age-adjusted mortality differences for cardiovascular and 
non-cardiovascular disease were 33.1 and 30.0 per 1000 person-years, 
respectively. The standardized mortality rate ratios were significant for all 
cause-specific mortality rates except accidental death. Our study revealed that 
excess mortality in dialysis patients compared to the general population in 
Japan is large, and differs according to age and cause of death. Cause-specific 
mortality studies should be planned to improve life expectancies of dialysis 
patients.

© 2012 The Authors. Therapeutic Apheresis and Dialysis © 2012 International 
Society for Apheresis.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1744-9987.2012.01144.x
PMID: 23735145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2013 Jul;43(7):695-705. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyt075. Epub
2013  Jun 4.

Cancer cachexia pathophysiology and translational aspect of herbal medicine.

Suzuki H(1), Asakawa A, Amitani H, Fujitsuka N, Nakamura N, Inui A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychosomatic Internal Medicine, Kagoshima University Graduate 
School of Medical and Dental Sciences, 8-35-1 Sakuragaoka, Kagoshima, 890-8520, 
Japan.

About half of all cancer patients show a syndrome of cachexia, characterized by 
anorexia and loss of adipose tissue and skeletal muscle mass. Numerous cytokines 
have been postulated to play a role in the etiology of cancer cachexia. 
Cytokines can elicit effects that mimic leptin signaling and suppress orexigenic 
ghrelin and neuropeptide Y signaling, inducing sustained anorexia and cachexia 
not accompanied by the usual compensatory response. Furthermore, cytokines have 
been implicated in the induction of cancer-related muscle wasting. In 
particular, tumor necrosis factor-alpha, interleukin-1, interleukin-6 and 
interferon-gamma have been implicated in the induction of cancer-related muscle 
wasting. Cytokine-induced skeletal muscle wasting is probably a multifactorial 
process, which involves a depression in protein synthesis, an increase in 
protein degradation or a combination of both. Cancer patients suffer from the 
reduction in physical function, tolerance to anti-cancer therapy and survival, 
while many effective chemotherapeutic agents for cancer are burdened by 
toxicities that can reduce patient's quality of life or hinder their effective 
use. Herbal medicines have been widely used to help improve such conditions. 
Recent studies have shown that herbal medicines such as rikkunshito enhance 
ghrelin signaling and consequently improve nausea, appetite loss and cachexia 
associated with cancer or cancer chemotherapy, which worsens the quality of life 
and life expectancy of the patients. The multicomponent herbal medicines capable 
of targeting multiple sites could be useful for future drug discovery. 
Mechanistic studies and identification of active compounds could lead to new 
discoveries in biological and biomedical sciences.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyt075
PMID: 23737606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Can Geriatr J. 2013 Jun 3;16(2):61-5. doi: 10.5770/cgj.16.60. Print 2013.

Understanding and meeting the needs of the older population: a global challenge.

Bergman H(1), Karunananthan S, Robledo LM, Brodsky J, Chan P, Cheung M, Bovet P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, McGill University, Montreal, QC, Canada;

In the past century, there has been a significant rise in life expectancy in 
almost all regions of the world, contributing to an increasingly older 
population. The aging of the population, in conjunction with urbanization and 
industrialization, has resulted in an important epidemiological transition 
marked by a widespread increase in the prevalence of chronic diseases and their 
sequelae. Current trends suggest that the transition will have a greater impact 
on developing countries compared to developed countries. An adequate response to 
the transition requires a strong emphasis on primary prevention and adequate 
resource allocation.

DOI: 10.5770/cgj.16.60
PMCID: PMC3671014
PMID: 23737931


204. PLoS One. 2013 May 30;8(5):e64020. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064020. Print 
2013.

The effects of cadmium exposure on the oxidative state and cell death in the 
gill of freshwater crab Sinopotamon henanense.

Wang J(1), Zhang P, Shen Q, Wang Q, Liu D, Li J, Wang L.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Shanxi University, Taiyuan, PR China.

We studied here the short-term toxicity effects of Cd on the oxidative state and 
cell death in the gill of freshwater crab Sinopotamon henanense. Crabs were 
exposed to Cd that resulted in Cd accumulation and a significant increase in the 
metallothionein (MT) level in the gill, but MT level increased disproportionally 
compared to the Cd accumulation with an extension of exposure time. Significant 
changes in the activities of superoxide dismutase (SOD), catalase (CAT), and 
glutathione peroxidase (GPx) were observed. An increase in the levels of 
reactive oxygen species (ROS) and lipid peroxidation (LPO) was detected that 
will cause oxidative stress. Histological abnormalities of the gills were 
discovered, including the expansion of gill cavity, a decrease in the numbers of 
connection of the upper and the lower of the gill lamellae and epithelial cells, 
and an increase in the number of hemocytes. The results of a TUNEL test and 
transmission electron microscope (TEM) showed that more gill cells had apoptotic 
characteristics after 48 h of Cd treatment compared to the control, but 
epithelial cell necrosis and inflammatory response appeared only after 72 h. It 
was concluded that (1) Cd induced the ROS production and accumulation through 
inhibiting antioxidant enzyme activities and exceeding the saturation values of 
MT binging; (2) Cd led to lipid peroxidation and histopathological alternations; 
and (3) Cd induced apoptotic response at short time exposure, followed by 
necrotic features and inflammatory reaction after longer time exposure.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064020
PMCID: PMC3667791
PMID: 23737962 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


205. N Engl J Med. 2013 Jun 6;368(23):2169-81. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1208981.

Terminal complement inhibitor eculizumab in atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome.

Legendre CM(1), Licht C, Muus P, Greenbaum LA, Babu S, Bedrosian C, Bingham C, 
Cohen DJ, Delmas Y, Douglas K, Eitner F, Feldkamp T, Fouque D, Furman RR, Gaber 
O, Herthelius M, Hourmant M, Karpman D, Lebranchu Y, Mariat C, Menne J, Moulin 
B, Nürnberger J, Ogawa M, Remuzzi G, Richard T, Sberro-Soussan R, Severino B, 
Sheerin NS, Trivelli A, Zimmerhackl LB, Goodship T, Loirat C.

Author information:
(1)Université Paris Descartes and Assistance Publique–Hôpitaux de Paris, Hôpital 
Necker, INSERM Unité 845, Paris, France. christophe.legendre@nck.aphp.fr.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Oct 3;369(14):1379-80.
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Oct 3;369(14):1377-8.
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Oct 3;369(14):1378.
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Oct 3;369(14):1378.
    N Engl J Med. 2013 Oct 3;369(14):1378-9.

BACKGROUND: Atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome is a genetic, life-threatening, 
chronic disease of complement-mediated thrombotic microangiopathy. Plasma 
exchange or infusion may transiently maintain normal levels of hematologic 
measures but does not treat the underlying systemic disease.
METHODS: We conducted two prospective phase 2 trials in which patients with 
atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome who were 12 years of age or older received 
eculizumab for 26 weeks and during long-term extension phases. Patients with low 
platelet counts and renal damage (in trial 1) and those with renal damage but no 
decrease in the platelet count of more than 25% for at least 8 weeks during 
plasma exchange or infusion (in trial 2) were recruited. The primary end points 
included a change in the platelet count (in trial 1) and thrombotic 
microangiopathy event-free status (no decrease in the platelet count of >25%, no 
plasma exchange or infusion, and no initiation of dialysis) (in trial 2).
RESULTS: A total of 37 patients (17 in trial 1 and 20 in trial 2) received 
eculizumab for a median of 64 and 62 weeks, respectively. Eculizumab resulted in 
increases in the platelet count; in trial 1, the mean increase in the count from 
baseline to week 26 was 73×10(9) per liter (P<0.001). In trial 2, 80% of the 
patients had thrombotic microangiopathy event-free status. Eculizumab was 
associated with significant improvement in all secondary end points, with 
continuous, time-dependent increases in the estimated glomerular filtration rate 
(GFR). In trial 1, dialysis was discontinued in 4 of 5 patients. Earlier 
intervention with eculizumab was associated with significantly greater 
improvement in the estimated GFR. Eculizumab was also associated with 
improvement in health-related quality of life. No cumulative toxicity of therapy 
or serious infection-related adverse events, including meningococcal infections, 
were observed through the extension period.
CONCLUSIONS: Eculizumab inhibited complement-mediated thrombotic microangiopathy 
and was associated with significant time-dependent improvement in renal function 
in patients with atypical hemolytic-uremic syndrome. (Funded by Alexion 
Pharmaceuticals; C08-002 ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT00844545 [adults] and 
NCT00844844 [adolescents]; C08-003 ClinicalTrials.gov numbers, NCT00838513 
[adults] and NCT00844428 [adolescents]).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1208981
PMID: 23738544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Health Expect. 2016 Jun;19(3):527-42. doi: 10.1111/hex.12092. Epub 2013 Jun
6.

The willingness of informal caregivers to assist their care-recipient to use 
Home Medicines Review.

Carter SR(1), Moles R(1), White L(2), Chen TF(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, The University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)Faculty of Business, Charles Sturt University, Bathurst, NSW, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: Informal caregivers experience daily hassles - a form of persistent 
stress, as a consequence of caregiving. This study aimed to develop and test a 
new theoretical model of health information-seeking behaviour, the Knowledge 
Hassles Information Seeking Model (KHISM). KHISM hypothesized that the knowledge 
hassles of caregivers - daily stressors experienced while dealing with tasks 
which require knowledge about the safety and effectiveness of the 
care-recipients' medicines - would influence caregivers' willingness to assist 
their care-recipient to use an Australian medication management service, Home 
Medicines Review (HMR).
METHODS: A cross-sectional postal survey was conducted among 2350 members of 
Carers (NSW, Australia). Respondents were included in the study if they were 
involved in medication-related tasks for their care-recipient and were not paid 
as caregivers. Also, their care-recipient needed to be taking more than five 
medicines daily or more than 12 doses daily and had not yet experienced HMR. 
Structural equation modelling was used to test the model.
RESULTS: A total of 324 useable surveys were returned yielding a response rate 
of 14%. Respondents were quite willing to assist their care-recipient to use HMR 
(willingness). The model predicted 51% of the variation in willingness. 
Knowledge hassles increased positive outcome expectancy (β = 0.40, P < 0.05) and 
indirectly increased willingness.
CONCLUSIONS: The more caregivers experience hassles with medication knowledge, 
the more they perceive HMR to be a helpful information source and the more 
willing they are to use it. Targeted marketing centred on HMR as an information 
source may increase caregivers' demand for HMR. Further exploration of the 
phenomenon of knowledge hassles is warranted.

© 2013 The Authors Health Expectations Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hex.12092
PMCID: PMC5055231
PMID: 23738989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Qual Life Res. 2014 Feb;23(1):349-61. doi: 10.1007/s11136-013-0439-0. Epub
2013  Jun 6.

PROMIS® Parent Proxy Report Scales for children ages 5-7 years: an item response 
theory analysis of differential item functioning across age groups.

Varni JW(1), Thissen D, Stucky BD, Liu Y, Magnus B, Quinn H, Irwin DE, DeWitt 
EM, Lai JS, Amtmann D, Gross HE, DeWalt DA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, College of Medicine, Texas A&M University, College 
Station, TX, USA, jvarni@arch.tamu.edu.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of the present study is to describe the extension of 
the National Institutes of Health Patient-Reported Outcomes Measurement 
Information System (PROMIS(®)) pediatric parent proxy-report item banks for 
parents of children ages 5-7 years, and to investigate differential item 
functioning (DIF) between the data obtained from parents of 5-7-year-old 
children with the data obtained from parents of 8-17 year-old children in the 
original construction of the scales.
METHODS: Item response theory (IRT) analyses of DIF were conducted comparing 
data from the 5-7 age group with data from the established scales for ages 8-17 
across 5 generic health domains (physical functioning, pain, fatigue, emotional 
health, and social health) and asthma.
RESULTS: IRT DIF analyses revealed that the majority of the items functioned 
similarly with responses from parents of younger and older children. A small 
number of items were removed from the item bank for younger children, and a few 
items that exhibited statistical DIF were retained in the pools with the caveat 
that they should not be used in studies that involve comparisons of younger 
children with older children.
CONCLUSIONS: The study confirms that most of the items in the PROMIS parent 
proxy-report item banks can be used with parents of children ages 5-7. It is 
anticipated that these new scales will have application for younger pediatric 
populations when pediatric self-report is not feasible.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-013-0439-0
PMCID: PMC3849217
PMID: 23740167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Arthritis Rheum. 2013 Aug;65(8):2059-69. doi: 10.1002/art.38025.

Patellofemoral joint loading during stair ambulation in people with 
patellofemoral osteoarthritis.

Fok LA(1), Schache AG, Crossley KM, Lin YC, Pandy MG.

Author information:
(1)University of Melbourne, Parkville, Victoria, Australia. 
pandym@unimelb.edu.au

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether people with patellofemoral (PF) joint 
osteoarthritis (OA) ascend and descend stairs with different PF joint loading, 
knee joint moments, lower limb kinematics, and muscle forces compared to healthy 
people.
METHODS: We recruited 17 participants with isolated PF joint OA, 13 participants 
with concurrent PF joint OA and tibiofemoral (TF) joint OA, and 21 age-matched 
controls. Joint kinematics and ground reaction forces were measured while 
participants ascended and descended stairs at a self-selected speed. 
Musculoskeletal computer modeling was used to determine lower limb muscle forces 
and the PF joint reaction force, and these parameters were compared between 
groups by analysis of variance.
RESULTS: Compared to their healthy counterparts, participants with isolated PF 
joint OA and participants with concurrent PF and TF joint OA ascended and 
descended stairs with lower knee extension moments, lower quadriceps muscle 
forces, lower PF joint reaction forces, and increased anterior pelvic tilt. 
Participants with OA also ascended stairs with increased hip flexion angles and 
descended stairs with smaller knee flexion angles and smaller hip abductor 
muscle forces. No differences were evident between the two groups with OA.
CONCLUSION: Compared to their healthy counterparts, people with PF joint OA 
(with or without concurrent TF joint OA) exhibit lower PF joint reaction forces 
during stair ascent and descent, in conjunction with lower knee extension 
moments and lower quadriceps muscle forces.

Copyright © 2013 by the American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.38025
PMID: 23740512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Biogerontology. 2013 Aug;14(4):353-63. doi: 10.1007/s10522-013-9435-6. Epub
2013  Jun 6.

Growth or longevity: the TOR's decision on lifespan regulation.

Wei Y(1), Zhang YJ, Cai Y.

Author information:
(1)People's Hospital Affiliated to Shanghai Jiao Tong University, School of 
Medicine, Shanghai, China. weiyh.sjtu.edu@gmail.com

TOR (target of rapamycin) pathway has been well known for its central role in 
growth control. Interestingly, recent studies also implicate the TOR pathway in 
lifespan regulation in various organisms ranging from budding yeast to mammals. 
TOR gains momentum in a study showing that rapamycin administration later in 
life significantly extends lifespan in mice. How the TOR kinase controls these 
two seemingly distinct biological processes is an especially intriguing question 
yet to be answered. Here, we summarize the literatures concerning TOR's role in 
growth control, stress response and lifespan regulation, hoping to obtain a 
better understanding of how cell growth and maintenance are balanced by TOR and 
how TOR-mediated shift in metabolisms or energy allocations may translate into 
lifespan extension at the organismal level. We also evaluate the undergoing 
efforts to target the TOR pathway for health in human, with focus on looking for 
new drugs that can bypass the unwanted side effects of rapamycin derivatives.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-013-9435-6
PMID: 23740528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Jun 5;(6):CD009689. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD009689.pub2.

Multidisciplinary rehabilitation following botulinum toxin and other focal 
intramuscular treatment for post-stroke spasticity.

Demetrios M(1), Khan F, Turner-Stokes L, Brand C, McSweeney S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Royal Park 
Campus, Melbourne, Australia. marina.demetrios@mh.org.au

BACKGROUND: Spasticity may affect stroke survivors by contributing to activity 
limitations, caregiver burden, pain and reduced quality of life (QoL). 
Spasticity management guidelines recommend multidisciplinary (MD) rehabilitation 
programmes following botulinum toxin (BoNT) treatment for post-stroke 
spasticity. However, the evidence base for the effectiveness of MD 
rehabilitation is unclear.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the effectiveness of MD rehabilitation, following BoNT and 
other focal intramuscular treatments such as phenol, in improving activity 
limitations and other outcomes in adults and children with post-stroke 
spasticity. To explore what settings, types and intensities of rehabilitation 
programmes are effective.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Stroke Group Trials Register (February 
2012), the Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The 
Cochrane Library 2011, Issue 12), MEDLINE (1948 to December 2011), EMBASE (1980 
to January 2012), CINAHL (1982 to January 2012), AMED (1985 to January 2012), 
LILACS (1982 to September 2012), PEDro, REHABDATA and OpenGrey (September 2012). 
In an effort to identify further published, unpublished and ongoing trials we 
searched trials registries and reference lists, handsearched journals and 
contacted authors.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included randomised controlled trials (RCTs) that 
compared MD rehabilitation (delivered by two or more disciplines in conjunction 
with medical input) following BoNT and other focal intramuscular treatments for 
post-stroke spasticity with placebo, routinely available local services, or 
lower levels of intervention; or studies that compared MD rehabilitation in 
different settings, of different types, or at different levels of intensity. We 
excluded RCTs that assessed the effectiveness of unidisciplinary therapy (for 
example physiotherapy only) or a single modality (for example stretching, 
casting, electrical stimulation or splinting only). The primary outcomes were 
validated measures of activity level (active and passive function) according to 
the World Health Organization's International Classification of Functioning, 
Disability and Health. Secondary outcomes included measures of symptoms, 
impairments, participation, QoL, impact on caregivers and adverse events.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: We independently selected the trials, extracted 
data, and assessed methodological quality using the Grades of Recommendation, 
Assessment, Development and Evaluation (GRADE). Due to the limited number of 
included studies, with clinical, methodological and statistical heterogeneity, 
quantitative meta-analysis was not possible. Therefore, GRADE provided 
qualitative synthesis of 'best evidence'.
MAIN RESULTS: We included three RCTs involving 91 participants. All three 
studies scored 'low quality' on the methodological quality assessment, implying 
high risk of bias. All studies investigated various types and intensities of 
outpatient rehabilitation programmes following BoNT for upper limb spasticity in 
adults with chronic stroke. Rehabilitation programmes included: modified 
constraint-induced movement therapy (mCIMT) compared with a neurodevelopmental 
therapy programme; task practice therapy with cyclic functional electrical 
stimulation (FES) compared with task practice therapy only; and occupational, 
manual therapy with dynamic elbow extension splinting compared with occupational 
therapy only. There was 'low quality' evidence for mCIMT improving upper limb 
motor function and spasticity in chronic stroke survivors with residual 
voluntary upper limb activity, up to six months, and 'very low quality' evidence 
for dynamic elbow splinting and occupational therapy reducing elbow range of 
movement at 14 weeks. Task practice therapy with cyclic FES did not improve 
upper limb function more than task practice therapy alone, only at 12 weeks. No 
studies addressed interventions in children and those with lower limb 
spasticity, or after other focal intramuscular treatments for spasticity.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: At best there was 'low level' evidence for the 
effectiveness of outpatient MD rehabilitation in improving active function and 
impairments following BoNT for upper limb spasticity in adults with chronic 
stroke. No trials explored the effect of MD rehabilitation on 'passive function' 
(caring for the affected limb), caregiver burden, or the individual's priority 
goals for treatment. The optimal types (modalities, therapy approaches, 
settings) and intensities of therapy for improving activity (active and passive 
function) in adults and children with post-stroke spasticity, in the short and 
longer term, are unclear. Further research is required to build evidence in this 
area.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD009689.pub2
PMID: 23740539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. J Ecol. 2013 May;101(3):585-595. doi: 10.1111/1365-2745.12088. Epub 2013 Apr
24.

Age, stage and senescence in plants.

Caswell H(1), Salguero-Gómez R.

Author information:
(1)Biology Department MS-34, Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution Woods Hole, 
MA, 02543, USA ; Max Planck Institute for Demographic Research Rostock, 18057, 
Germany.

1. Senescence (an increase in the mortality rate or force of mortality, or a 
decrease in fertility, with increasing age) is a widespread phenomenon. Theories 
about the evolution of senescence have long focused on the age trajectories of 
the selection gradients on mortality and fertility. In purely age-classified 
models, these selection gradients are non-increasing with age, implying that 
traits expressed early in life have a greater impact on fitness than traits 
expressed later in life. This pattern leads inevitably to the evolution of 
senescence if there are trade-offs between early and late performance. 2. It has 
long been suspected that the stage- or size-dependent demography typical of 
plants might change these conclusions. In this paper, we develop a model that 
includes both stage- and age-dependence and derive the age-dependent, 
stage-dependent and age×stage-dependent selection gradients on mortality and 
fertility. 3. We applied this model to stage-classified population projection 
matrices for 36 species of plants, from a wide variety of growth forms (from 
mosses to trees) and habitats. 4. We found that the age-specific selection 
gradients within a life cycle stage can exhibit increases with age (we call 
these contra-senescent selection gradients). In later stages, often large size 
classes in plant demography, the duration of these contra-senescent gradients 
can exceed the life expectancy by several fold. 5.Synthesis. The interaction of 
age- and stage-dependence in plants leads to selection pressures on senescence 
fundamentally different from those found in previous, age-classified theories. 
This result may explain the observation that large plants seem less subject to 
senescence than most kinds of animals. The methods presented here can lead to 
improved analysis of both age-dependent and stage-dependent demographic 
properties of plant populations.

DOI: 10.1111/1365-2745.12088
PMCID: PMC3664411
PMID: 23741075


212. Middle East Afr J Ophthalmol. 2013 Apr-Jun;20(2):131-41. doi: 
10.4103/0974-9233.110610.

Advanced glaucoma: management pearls.

Gessesse GW(1), Damji KF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, College of Public Health and Medical Sciences, 
Jimma University, Ethiopia.

A significant proportion of glaucoma patients present late, particularly in the 
developing world, and unfortunately, in an advanced stage of the disease. They 
are at imminent danger of losing remaining vision, and may also be afflicted 
with various socioeconomic and health challenges. The encounter with such a 
patient is typically characterized by anxiety/fear and sometimes hopelessness 
from the patient's perspective. The physician may also feel that they are in a 
difficult position managing the patient's disease. When dealing with such cases, 
we suggest a holistic, individualized approach taking into account the 
'biopsychosociospiritual' (BPSS) profile of each patient. The BPSS model takes 
into account relevant ocular as well as systemic biology (factors such as the 
mechanism of glaucoma, level of intraocular pressure [IOP], rate of progression, 
life expectancy, general health), psychological considerations (e.g., fear, 
depression), socio-economic factors and spiritual/cultural values and beliefs 
before being able to decide with the patient and their care partner(s) what 
treatment goals should be and how they can best be approached. Treatment for 
advanced glaucoma can be highly effective, and patients and their care partners 
should be informed that aggressive IOP lowering to the low teens or even single 
digits offers the best chance of protecting remaining vision. This can be 
achieved safely and effectively in most cases with trabeculectomy (including an 
antimetabolite), and in some cases with medical and/or laser therapy. Vision 
rehabilitation and psychosocial support should also be considered in order to 
optimize remaining vision, replace fear with hope as appropriate, and thus 
improve the overall quality of life.

DOI: 10.4103/0974-9233.110610
PMCID: PMC3669490
PMID: 23741132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


213. Med J Islam Repub Iran. 2013 May;27(2):57-61.

Effect of Zafirlukast on improving lung function in patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary diseases.

Moosavi SA(1), Raji H, Tasorian B, Mostafapour E, Shahabi S, Purfakharan M, 
Fereshtehnejad SM.

Author information:
(1)Associated Professor, Pulmonologist, Rasoul-e-Akram Hospital, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. dr_moosavi_@yahoo.ca.

BACKGROUND: There is little evidence about the role of Zafirlukast (a highly 
selective LTD4 antagonist) in Chronic Obstructive Pulmonary Disease (COPD). The 
Zafirlukast can reduce the need for short-acting rescue β2 agonists, produce 
fewer exacerbations of asthma and increased quality of life as possible benefits 
treatment for asthma. The aim of our study was to evaluate the effects of 
Zafirlukast improvement of lung function in patients with COPD.
METHODS: Twenty five patients with moderate to severe COPD, in stable phase of 
the disease, participated in this interventional, quasi-experimental study. All 
patients were received 40mg oral Zafirlukast per day for 2 weeks. Pulmonary 
function Test was performed both at the baseline and at the end of the study. 
Data were analyzed with paired t-test using SPSS v.16.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 67.29 (SD=5.56) years with the mean 
baseline for forced expiratory volume in first second (FEV1) equal to 41.79% 
(SD=14.96) of predicted value. After 2 weeks, the mean improvements in forced 
vital capacity (FVC), FEV1 and FEV1/FVC were 4.75% (SD=13.18), 3.71% (SD=9.19) 
and 9.33(SD=27.08), respectively. Zafirlukast produced a non-significant 
(p>0.05) bronchodilation, with maximum mean increase in FEV1 of 0.04 lit (3%) 
above baseline.
CONCLUSION: Results showed that Zafirlukast has no considerable bronchodilatory 
effect in COPD. Present study consisted of a very short treatment period and it 
is possible that the extension of this period could possibly have more effects. 
Additional larger studies are needed to verify the impact of leukoterien 
receptor antagonists on improving the lung function in COPD patients.

PMCID: PMC3610308
PMID: 23741166


214. Asian J Neurosurg. 2013 Jan;8(1):21-8. doi: 10.4103/1793-5482.110276.

Intracranial epidermoid tumor; microneurosurgical management: An experience of 
23 cases.

Chowdhury FH(1), Haque MR, Sarker MH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Dhaka Medical College Hospital, Dhaka, 
Bangladesh.

OBJECTIVES: An intracranial epidermoid tumor is relatively a rare tumor, 
accounting for approximately 0.1% of all intracranial space occupying lesions. 
These are also known as pearly tumor due to their pearl like appearance. In this 
series, the localization of the tumor, presenting age and symptoms, imaging 
criteria for diagnosis, surgical management strategy with completeness of 
excision and overall outcome were studied prospectively. Here, we report our 
short experience of intracranial epidermoid as a whole.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between January 2006 to December 2010, 23 cases of 
intracranial epidermoid were diagnosed preoperatively with almost certainty by 
computed tomography (CT) and magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) of brain in plain, 
contrast and other relevant studies. All of them underwent operation in Dhaka 
Medical College Hospital and in some Private Hospital in Dhaka, Bangladesh. All 
patients were followed-up routinely by clinical examination and neuroimaging. 
Average follow-up was 39 (range-71-11months) months. Patients of the series were 
prospectively studied.
RESULTS: Supratentorial epidermoids were 04 cases and infratemporal epidermoids 
were 19 cases. Clinical features and surgical strategy varies according to the 
location and extension of the tumors. Age range was 19-71 years (37.46 years). 
Common clinical features were headache, cerebellar features, seizure, vertigo, 
hearing impairment and features of raised intracranial pressure (ICP). 
Investigation was CT scan or/+ MRI of brain in all cases. Pre-operative complete 
excision was 20 cases, but post-operative images showed complete excision in 17 
cases. Content of tumor was pearly white/white material in all cases except one, 
where content was putty material. Re-operation for residual/recurrent tumor was 
nil. Complications included pre-operative mortality one case, persisted sixth 
nerve palsy in one case, transient memory disturbance one case, and extra dural 
hematoma one case. One senior patient expired three months after the operation 
from spontaneous intracerebral hemorrhage. Rest of the patients were stable and 
symptom/s free till last follow-up.
CONCLUSION: In the management of such tumors, one should keep in mind that an 
aggressive radical surgery carrying a high morbidity and mortality and a 
conservative subtotal tumor excision is associated with a higher rate of 
recurrence, but earlier diagnosis and complete excision or near total excision 
of this benign tumor can cure the patient with the expectation of normal life.

DOI: 10.4103/1793-5482.110276
PMCID: PMC3667457
PMID: 23741259

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


215. PLoS One. 2013 May 31;8(5):e64604. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064604. Print 
2013.

Clinical impact and cost-effectiveness of expanded voluntary HIV testing in 
India.

Venkatesh KK(1), Becker JE, Kumarasamy N, Nakamura YM, Mayer KH, Losina E, 
Swaminathan S, Flanigan TP, Walensky RP, Freedberg KA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Department of Medicine, Alpert Medical 
School, Brown University/Miriam Hospital, Providence, Rhode Island, United 
States of America.

BACKGROUND: Despite expanding access to antiretroviral therapy (ART), most of 
the estimated 2.3 to 2.5 million HIV-infected individuals in India remain 
undiagnosed. The questions of whom to test for HIV and at what frequency remain 
unclear.
METHODS: We used a simulation model of HIV testing and treatment to examine 
alternative HIV screening strategies: 1) current practice, 2) one-time, 3) every 
five years, and 4) annually; and we applied these strategies to three population 
scenarios: 1) the general Indian population ("national population"), i.e. base 
case (HIV prevalence 0.29%; incidence 0.032/100 person-years [PY]); 2) 
high-prevalence districts (HIV prevalence 0.8%; incidence 0.088/100 PY), and 3) 
high-risk groups (HIV prevalence 5.0%; incidence 0.552/100 PY). Cohort 
characteristics reflected Indians reporting for HIV testing, with a median age 
of 35 years, 66% men, and a mean CD4 count of 305 cells/µl. The cost of a rapid 
HIV test was $3.33. Outcomes included life expectancy, HIV-related direct 
medical costs, incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), and secondary 
transmission benefits. The threshold for "cost-effective" was defined as 3x the 
annual per capita GDP of India ($3,900/year of life saved [YLS]), or for "very 
cost-effective" was <1x the annual per capita GDP ($1,300/YLS).
RESULTS: Compared to current practice, one-time screening was very 
cost-effective in the national population (ICER: $1,100/YLS), high-prevalence 
districts (ICER: $800/YLS), and high-risk groups (ICER: $800/YLS). Screening 
every five years in the national population (ICER: $1,900/YLS) and annual 
screening in high-prevalence districts (ICER: $1,900/YLS) and high-risk groups 
(ICER: $1,800/YLS) were also cost-effective. Results were most sensitive to 
costs of care and linkage-to-care.
CONCLUSIONS: In India, voluntary HIV screening of the national population every 
five years offers substantial clinical benefit and is cost-effective. Annual 
screening is cost-effective among high-risk groups and in high-prevalence 
districts nationally. Routine HIV screening in India should be implemented.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064604
PMCID: PMC3669338
PMID: 23741348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


216. BMC Public Health. 2013 Jun 6;13:551. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-551.

Temporal trend analysis of avoidable mortality in Taiwan, 1971-2008: overall 
progress, with areas for further medical or public health investment.

Chen BK(1), Yang CY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Policy and Management, Arnold School of Public 
Health, University of South Carolina, 800 Sumter Street #116, Columbia, SC 
29208, USA. bchen@mailbox.sc.edu

BACKGROUND: Avoidable mortality (AM), or "unnecessary untimely death," is 
considered an indicator of health care quality. We investigated trends in the 
age-standardized mortality rates (ASMRs) and associated standard expected years 
of life lost (SEYLL) for deaths amenable to medical care or public health 
measures in Taiwan from 1971-2008, with an emphasis on identifying areas where 
additional medical or public health investment may help reduce the burden of AM.
METHODS: Taiwan's ASMRs per 100,000 for AM and other causes of death were 
calculated using data from the National Death Certificate Registry in five-year 
bins from 1971 to 2008. SEYLL rates per 100,000 were calculated annually from 
1971 to 2008 using the same data source.
RESULTS: ASMR for almost all AM and other causes of death declined dramatically 
from 1971 to 2008 except for lung cancer (16.6% and 7.4% increase among men and 
women, respectively) and breast cancer (109.8% increase among women). In the 
same period, SEYLL due to lung cancer increased from 269.2 to 555.7 for men and 
249.7 to 342.5 for women. For women, SEYLL due to breast cancer increased from 
263.5 in 1971 to 659.3 in 2008. There were gender-specific differences in the 
reduction (or increase) in AM rates, with women showing larger rates of 
reduction or smaller rates of increase. Among men, AM fell by 65.9% from 
1971-1975 to 2006-2008, and deaths from other causes increased by 15.6%. Among 
women, AM and deaths from other causes fell by 80.8% and 59.8% respectively. 
SEYLL decreased, respectively among males and females, from 23,147.3 and 
24,081.1 in 1971 to 11,261.8 and 5,929.6 in 2008.
CONCLUSION: From 1971 to 2008, Taiwan experienced a dramatic reduction in most 
AM and corresponding SEYLL except for lung cancer (for both males and females) 
and breast cancer (for females). Additional effort should be devoted to public 
health measures to combat the rising prevalence of smoking in Taiwan, which may 
be responsible for the increasing AM from lung cancer. If AM in breast cancer 
continues unabated in the future, greater policy emphasis on the early detection 
and treatment of breast cancer may also be warranted.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-551
PMCID: PMC3744173
PMID: 23742049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Inhal Toxicol. 2013 May;25(6):333-40. doi: 10.3109/08958378.2013.788103.

Assessments of population exposure to environmental pollutants using air quality 
measurements during Commonwealth Games-2010.

Chate D(1), Beig G, Satpute T, Sahu SK, Ali K, Parkhi N, Ghude S.

Author information:
(1)Indian Institute of Tropical Meteorology, Pune, India. chate@tropmet.res.in

During the "Commonwealth Games" 2010 (CWG-2010) in Delhi, the Indian government 
has implemented an ambitious project "System of Air quality Forecasting And 
Research (SAFAR)" for monitoring and forecasting air-quality scenario. Using 
high-precision spatio-temporal measurements of criteria pollutants from the 
SAFAR network, the number of cases are estimated for total, cardiovascular and 
respiratory mortalities and hospital admissions. In a thinly populated airport 
area, the excess number of cases for total mortality show ∼10 for PM2.5 and 25 
for PM10, whereas, ∼110 for PM2.5 and ∼300 for PM10 in most populous Delhi 
University (DU) area. Cardiovascular mortality in airport area show ∼5 and <10 
for PM2.5 and PM10, respectively, but, in DU area show ∼55 for PM2.5 and ∼140 
for PM10. In DU locality, respiratory mortality shows ∼7 and ∼20 for PM2.5 and 
PM10 and, hospital admissions show ∼11 and ∼30 for PM2.5 and PM10, respectively. 
In airport area, excess cases of respiratory mortality and hospital admission 
tends to one for exposure to PM2.5 or PM10 levels indicating effective exposure 
is the key factor for health hazards. As public health gains, low air pollution 
levels were observed before the CWG due to effective washout by monsoonal rain 
and during CWG under policy-induced air quality measures could increase the life 
expectancy as against to post-CWG period. These results are important for the 
megacities in developing world as the SAFAR project is internationally 
recognized by the Global Urban Research Meteorology and Environment of the World 
Meteorological Organization.

DOI: 10.3109/08958378.2013.788103
PMID: 23742110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. J Pain Symptom Manage. 2014 Jan;47(1):166-73. doi: 
10.1016/j.jpainsymman.2013.02.018. Epub 2013 Jun 4.

A double-blind, placebo-controlled, crossover pilot trial with extension using 
an oral mucosal cannabinoid extract for treatment of chemotherapy-induced 
neuropathic pain.

Lynch ME(1), Cesar-Rittenberg P(2), Hohmann AG(3).

Author information:
(1)Pain Management Unit, Queen Elizabeth II Health Sciences Centre, Dalhousie 
University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada; Department of Anesthesia, Psychiatry 
and Pharmacology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, Canada. Electronic 
address: mary.lynch@dal.ca.
(2)Division of Gynecologic Oncology, Dalhousie University, Halifax, Nova Scotia, 
