With improving average life expectancy of individuals in most countries, there 
has been increase in the incidence of cardiovascular diseases and cancers. 
Radiation oncologists therefore are likely to encounter an increasing number of 
cancer patients with in situ cardiac pacemaker devices needing radiation 
treatments. Pacemaker technology has advanced rapidly in recent years. As a 
result, the potential interactions of these devices with radiation therapy have 
changed since American Association of Physicists in Medicine (AAPM) issued 
guidelines in 1994. Current approaches to treatment in patients who have these 
devices vary among radiation oncology centers. Furthermore, the recommendations 
given by the devices' manufacturers differ considerably. Common knowledge about 
pacemaker in radiation oncology community is vital as radiation management needs 
to be tailored to individual patients in accordance to the information of 
available for the device. Some general practical guidelines can be gleaned from 
the literature. It is felt that more robust information is required using web 
based database sharing to develop total safe practice guidelines in such 
patients. This article reviews the information available to help create such 
guidelines and presents recommendations for treatment in this increasingly 
common clinical situation.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1482.113348
PMID: 23771357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. J Cancer Res Ther. 2013 Apr-Jun;9(2):219-23. doi: 10.4103/0973-1482.113358.

Clinical significance of radiofrequency ablation and metastasectomy in elderly 
patients with lung metastases from musculoskeletal sarcomas.

Nakamura T(1), Matsumine A, Yamakado K, Takao M, Uchida A, Sudo A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Mie University Graduate School of Medicine, 
2-174, Edobashi, Tsu-city, Mie 514-8507, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The incidence of sarcoma diagnosed in the elderly population may be 
rising due to the increasing life expectancy. The purpose of our study was to 
evaluate the efficacy of lung metastasectomy and radiofrequency (RF) ablation in 
elderly sarcoma patients (65 years or older) with lung metastases, compared with 
adult sarcoma patients younger than 65 years (20-64 years).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We retrospectively evaluated the clinical efficacy of 
metastasectomy and lung RF ablation in sarcoma patients with lung metastases.
RESULTS: Between 2001 and 2010, lung metastases were detected in 66 adult 
patients with musculoskeletal sarcomas. Twenty-five patients with lung 
metastasis were elderly. Twelve of the 25 patients were treated with lung 
metastasectomy and/or RF ablation. In contrast, 41 patients were adult patients 
younger than 65 years. Twenty of these 41 patients were treated with lung 
metastasectomy and/or RF ablation. The 1 and 3-year survival rates after initial 
treatment for lung metastases were 81.8% and 38.4% in 12 elderly patients, 
respectively. Compared with the control group, the survival rate in the elderly 
patients was not significantly different.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that elderly sarcoma patients with lung metastases 
should always be considered for either metastasectomy or RF ablation.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1482.113358
PMID: 23771362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Aug;31(8):677-91. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0066-1.

Incorporating process utility into quality adjusted life years: a systematic 
review of empirical studies.

Brennan VK(1), Dixon S.

Author information:
(1)RTI-Health Solutions, Velocity House, Business and Conference Centre, 3 Solly 
Street, Sheffield, S1 4DE, UK. vbrennan@rti.org

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Apr;32(4):421-2.
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Apr;32(4):423-4.

OBJECTIVE: This review aimed to identify published studies that provide an 
empirical measure of process utility, which can be incorporated into estimates 
of QALY calculations.
METHODS: A literature search was conducted in PubMed to identify published 
studies of process utility. Articles were included if they were written in the 
English language and reported empirical measures of process utility that could 
be incorporated into the QALY calculation; those studies reporting utilities 
that were not anchored on a scale of 0 representing dead and 1 representing full 
health were excluded from the review.
RESULTS: Fifteen studies published between 1996 and 2012 were included. Studies 
included respondents from the USA, Australia, Scotland and the UK, Europe and 
Canada. Eight of the included studies explored process utility associated with 
treatments; six explored process utility associated with screening procedures or 
tests; and one was performed in preventative care. A variety of approaches were 
used to detect and measure process utility: four studies used standard gamble 
techniques; four studies used time trade-off (TTO); one study used conjoint 
analysis and one used a combination of conjoint analysis and TTO; one study used 
SF-36 data; one study used both TTO and EQ-5D; and three studies used wait 
trade-off techniques. Measures of process utility for different drug delivery 
methods ranged from 0.02 to 0.27. Utility estimates associated with different 
dosing strategies ranged from 0.005 to 0.09. Estimates for convenience (able to 
take on an empty stomach) ranged from 0.001 to 0.028. Estimates of process 
utility associated with screening and testing procedures ranged from 0.0005 to 
0.031. Both of these estimates were obtained for management approaches to 
cervical cancer screening.
CONCLUSION: The identification of studies through conventional methods was 
difficult due to the lack of consistent indexing and terminology across studies; 
however, the evidence does support the existence of process utility in 
treatment, screening and preventative care settings. There was considerable 
variation between estimates. The range of methodological approaches used to 
identify and measure process utility, coupled with the need for further research 
into, for example, the application of estimates in economic models, means it is 
difficult to know whether these differences are a true reflection of the amount 
of process utility that enters into an individual's utility function, or whether 
they are associated with features of the studies' methodological design. Without 
further work, and a standardised approach to the methodology for the detection 
and measurement of process utility, comparisons between estimates are difficult. 
This literature review supports the existence of process utility and indicates 
that, despite the need for further research in the area, it could be an 
important component of an individual's utility function, which should at least 
be considered, if not incorporated, into cost-utility analyses.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0066-1
PMID: 23771494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. J Korean Med Sci. 2013 Jun;28(6):797-8. doi: 10.3346/jkms.2013.28.6.797.

Calorie restriction in the elderly people.

Kim KI, Kim CH.

DOI: 10.3346/jkms.2013.28.6.797
PMCID: PMC3677990
PMID: 23772138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Front Cell Neurosci. 2013 Jun 10;7:86. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2013.00086. 
eCollection 2013.

Sonic hedgehog and Wnt: antagonists in morphogenesis but collaborators in axon 
guidance.

Avilés EC(1), Wilson NH, Stoeckli ET.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Life Sciences, University of Zurich Zurich, 
Switzerland.

As indicated by their name, morphogens were first identified for their role in 
the formation of tissues early in development. Secreted from a source, they 
spread through the tissue to form gradients by which they affect the 
differentiation of precursor cells in a concentration-dependent manner. In this 
context, the antagonistic roles of the morphogens of the Wnt family and Sonic 
hedgehog (Shh) in the specification of cell types along the dorso-ventral axis 
of the neural tube have been studied in detail. However, more recently, 
morphogens have been demonstrated to act well beyond the early stages of nervous 
system development, as additional roles of morphogen gradients in vertebrate 
neural circuit formation have been identified. Both Wnt and Shh affect neural 
circuit formation at several stages by their influence on neurite extension, 
axon pathfinding and synapse formation. In this review, we will summarize the 
mechanisms of morphogen function during axon guidance in the vertebrate nervous 
system.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2013.00086
PMCID: PMC3677135
PMID: 23772206


298. Br J Haematol. 2013 Aug;162(4):455-64. doi: 10.1111/bjh.12413. Epub 2013 Jun
15.

Sickle cell disease: time for a closer look at treatment options?

Sheth S(1), Licursi M, Bhatia M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology, Weill Cornell Medical College, 
New York, NY 10065, USA. shethsu@med.cornell.edu

Tremendous progress has been made in the care of individuals with sickle cell 
over the past several decades. Major successes have been comprehensive infection 
prophylaxis, prediction and prevention of stroke, and better transfusion care, 
the latter including both prevention of alloimmunization and treatment of iron 
overload. However, definitive therapies remain limited to hydroxycarbamide 
(hydroxyurea) and stem cell transplantation, both of which have been in use for 
at least two decades. Despite knowing the progressive natural history of the 
disease with organ dysfunction, failure, and ultimately death at a young age, 
definitive therapies are considered for only a small proportion of individuals. 
Consequently, while life expectancy has improved dramatically from the last 
century, the ongoing pace of advancement has slowed or stalled. We believe that 
it is time to broaden the use of definitive therapy for those with asymptomatic 
disease, being cautiously more aggressive in our approach.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.12413
PMID: 23772687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Australas J Ageing. 2013 Jun;32(2):125-9. doi:
10.1111/j.1741-6612.2012.00650.x.  Epub 2012 Oct 29.

Not in Australia. Migration, work and age discrimination.

Biggs S(1), Fredvang M, Haapala I.

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Political Sciences, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia. biggss@unimelb.edu.au

Perceptions of older people are changing both nationally and internationally, 
with policy developments that emphasise the value of older workers and the 
extension of working life to accommodate a longer life-course. For national 
economies older workers produce benefits of increasing tax dollars and personal 
savings and reduce claims on the state through pensions. In terms of migration, 
older adults bring assets and other benefits generated elsewhere into the host 
economy, as skilled workers or as active retirees. It has also been argued that 
older societies may be more productive as a consequence of the contribution of 
older citizens. Nations that create barriers to older migration, such as is 
currently the case for Australia, run the risk not only of perpetuating age 
discrimination, but also of failing to take advantage of population change in a 
global context. The authors critically examine this area and raise a series of 
questions for future policy.

© 2012 The Authors. Australasian Journal on Ageing © 2012 ACOTA.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1741-6612.2012.00650.x
PMID: 23773254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Int J Pediatr Otorhinolaryngol. 2013 Aug;77(8):1255-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijporl.2013.05.003. Epub 2013 Jun 15.

Feasibility of cochlear implantation in Mucopolysaccharidosis.

Saeed H(1), Nichani J, Melling C, Raine CH, Khan I, Martin JM, Bullough R, Green 
KM, Jones SA, Bruce IA.

Author information:
(1)Manchester Auditory Implant Centre, Manchester Royal Infirmary, University of 
Manchester, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 9WL, UK.

Mucopolysaccharidoses (MPS) are a group of rare inherited metabolic disorders 
resulting from deficiencies of particular enzymes involved in the breakdown of 
glycosaminoglycans. Amongst the manifestations of MPS within the head and neck 
patients may develop conductive, mixed or sensorineural hearing loss.
OBJECTIVE: The main objective of this paper is to describe the management of 
profound sensorineural hearing loss in children with Mucopolysaccaridosis. The 
primary outcome measures for this case series were improvement in auditory 
performance and speech perception scores following cochlear implantation. 
Secondary outcome measures included surgical complications.
METHODS: We carried out a casenote review of the first two cases of cochlear 
implantation (CI) to rehabilitate profound sensory neural hearing loss in 
Mucopolysaccharidoses. Improvement in auditory performance was measured by 
categories of auditory performance (CAP) score, speech reception score (SRS) and 
the IHR McCormick toy discrimination test.
RESULTS: Both patients with MPS had demonstrable benefit from CI in terms of 
auditory performance and speech perception. The first patient improved from 
pre-operatively only managing to recognise environmental sounds to understanding 
conversation without lip-reading with a familiar talker. Following CI, the 
second patient can discriminate speech in noisy environments to a degree, 
without lip-reading. No peri-operative complications were noted in either 
patient.
CONCLUSION: As the medical management of the MPS has progressed there is likely 
to be a corresponding increase in survival. This increased life-expectancy will 
likely lead to greater numbers of patients with MPS surviving long enough to 
develop profound hearing loss. Likewise, when considering the risks and benefits 
of quality of life interventions such as CI in patients with MPS, it is more 
likely that the risks of surgery and general anaesthesia will be considered 
acceptable. Clinicians managing such patients will need to be aware of these 
developments.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijporl.2013.05.003
PMID: 23773334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Maturitas. 2013 Aug;75(4):301-2. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2013.05.011. Epub
2013  Jun 15.

Better health, longer lives.

Engelaer FM, van Bodegom D, Westendorp RG.

Erratum in
    Maturitas. 2013 Dec;76(4):386.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2013.05.011
PMID: 23773372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Neuroepidemiology. 2013;41(2):88-93. doi: 10.1159/000345135. Epub 2013 Jun
13.

Disease burden of stroke in Kolkata, India: derivation of disability-adjusted 
life years by a direct method.

Banerjee TK(1), Dutta S, Ray BK, Ghosal M, Hazra A, Chaudhuri A, Das SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, National Neuroscience Centre, Kolkata, India.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: The disability-adjusted life year (DALY) is a new time-based 
measure of disease burden incorporating both disability and mortality. Our study 
aims to determine the DALYs lost due to stroke using a direct methodology and 
the implications.
METHODS: A population-based, house-to-house, 2-stage, prospective study on 
stroke was conducted over 7 years in Kolkata, India, on 100,802 randomly 
selected subjects to capture the incident cases of first-ever stroke and those 
with fatal stroke. The data were utilized to estimate years of life lost due to 
premature mortality (YLLs), years lived with disability (YLDs) and DALYs lost.
RESULTS: Over 7 years, there were 763 incident cases of first-ever stroke; of 
these, 320 had a fatal stroke within 30 days and 443 were stroke survivors. The 
overall DALYs lost due to stroke were computed as 795.57 per 100,000 
person-years (730.43 in men and 552.86 in women). The overall YLL and YLD values 
were 593.14 and 202.43 per 100,000 person-years, respectively. The YLLs 
comprised 74.5% of the total DALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study in India where DALYs lost due to stroke 
were derived by a direct method. High YLL values demand urgent measures for 
controlling premature stroke death.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000345135
PMID: 23774662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Nat Rev Rheumatol. 2013 Oct;9(10):604-13. doi: 10.1038/nrrheum.2013.92. Epub
 2013 Jun 18.

The influence of ageing on the development and management of rheumatoid 
arthritis.

Boots AM(1), Maier AB, Stinissen P, Masson P, Lories RJ, De Keyser F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology and Clinical Immunology, UMCG, University of 
Groningen, 9700 RB, Groningen, The Netherlands.

The population of elderly individuals with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is 
expanding, due mainly to increasing life expectancy. A variety of theories have 
been proposed to explain the ageing process, including accumulation of DNA 
damage and resultant changes in biological processes. Such changes can influence 
the development and/or course of disease. Furthermore, alterations in biological 
function determine the biological age-as opposed to chronological age-of an 
individual, which strongly influences their ability to cope with disease. 
Moreover, comorbidities are more frequent in elderly individuals. Together, 
these factors complicate treatment of disease and necessitate careful patient 
management. Indeed, although evidence from clinical trials suggests that DMARDs 
and biologic agents have good efficacy and are well tolerated in elderly 
patients with RA, such individuals are often undertreated and inadequately 
managed. Unfortunately, insufficient data are available for the development of 
evidence-based guidelines for this population, as elderly patients are often 
excluded from clinical trials owing to age restrictions or comorbidities. Thus, 
additional clinical studies in elderly patients are warranted, with treatment 
regimens tailored according to vitality or frailty parameters. This Review 
focuses on the pathophysiological aspects of ageing and their implications for 
the management of RA in elderly patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nrrheum.2013.92
PMID: 23774902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2013 Jun 18;45(3):495-8.

[Progress in global health response to the Post-2015 development agenda].

[Article in Chinese]

Xie Z(1), Liu PL, Guo Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Administration, Peking University School of 
Public Health, Beijing, China.

This research reviews the recent global health response to the Post-2015 
development agenda setting. It discusses three burning issues during the 
on-going country consultation: how health can be fitted into the post-MDG 
agenda, the achievements and lessons learnt from Millennium Development Goals 
(MDG), and health related goals and indicators setting. It suggests that the 
relationship between health and development is dynamic, thus, health acts on not 
only the contributor to development but also the beneficiary and indicator of 
sustainable development. Though great achievements on health have been made 
since 2000, equity and human right remain challenges to the MDG. Universal 
Health Coverage and Healthy Life Expectancy are two potential goals for the 
post-MDG agenda. China has also been involved in this global process, but more 
actions should be taken to make its voice heard by the world.

PMID: 23774936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. J Community Health. 2013 Dec;38(6):1042-9. doi: 10.1007/s10900-013-9712-y.

A nurse-run walk-in clinic: cost-effective alternative to non-urgent emergency 
department use by the uninsured.

Bicki A(1), Silva A, Joseph V, Handoko R, Rico SV, Burns J, Simonelli A, Harrop 
J, Nedow J, De Groot AS.

Author information:
(1)Clinica Esperanza/Hope Clinic, 60 Valley Street, Olneyville, Providence, RI, 
02909, USA, albicki@gmail.com.

Non-urgent healthcare problems are responsible for more than 9 million visits to 
the emergency department (ED) in US hospitals each year, largely due to 
patients' lack of access to a primary care physician. To avoid costly and 
unnecessary ED usage for non-urgent health problems, a walk-in clinic run by 
nurses (CHEER Clinic) was developed as an extension of the services provided by 
an existing free clinic in a low-income neighborhood of Providence, RI, with the 
goal of providing uninsured patients with a convenient, no-cost means of 
accessing healthcare. An evaluation and cost-effectiveness analysis of the 
clinic's first 5 months of operation were performed. During this pilot period, 
256 patients were seen. When incorporating the quality-adjusted-life-year value 
of preventive services rendered, an estimated $1.28 million in future healthcare 
costs was avoided. Dividing these cost-savings by the clinic's operational cost 
yielded a mean return on investment of $34 per $1 invested. Adding nurse-run 
walk-in hours at a free clinic significantly expanded access to healthcare for 
uninsured patients and was cost-effective for both the clinic and the patient. 
Ultimately, replication of this model in community clinics serving the uninsured 
could reduce ED burden by treating a substantial number of non-urgent medical 
concerns at a lower cost than would be incurred for treatment of the same 
problems in EDs.

DOI: 10.1007/s10900-013-9712-y
PMID: 23775033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Br J Surg. 2013 Aug;100(9):1205-13. doi: 10.1002/bjs.9190. Epub 2013 Jun 17.

Cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic fundoplication versus continued medical 
management for the treatment of gastro-oesophageal reflux disease based on 
long-term follow-up of the REFLUX trial.

Faria R(1), Bojke L, Epstein D, Corbacho B, Sculpher M; REFLUX trial group.

Collaborators: Grant A, Cotton S, Boachie C, Ramsay C, Krukowski Z, Heading R, 
Campbell M, Atkin W, Bancewicz J, Barton G, Darzi A, Heading R, Jankowski J, 
Krukowski Z, Lilford R, Martin I, Mowat A, Russell I, Sculpher M, Thursz M, 
Nicholl J, Hawkey C, MacIntyre I, Mowat A, Krukowski Z, El-Omar E, Phull P, 
Sinclair T, Clements B, Collins J, Kennedy A, Lawther H, Bennett D, Davies N, 
Toop S, Winwood P, Alderson D, Barham P, Green K, Mittal R, Asante M, El Hasani 
S, De Beaux A, Heading R, Meekison L, Paterson-Brown S, Barkell H, Ferns G, 
Bailey M, Karanjia N, Rockall T, Skelly L, Dakkak M, King J, Royston C, Sedman 
P, Gordon K, Potts L, Smith C, Zentler-Munro P, Munro A, Dexter S, Maoyeddi P, 
Lloyd D, Loh V, Thursz M, Darzi A, Ahmed A, Greaves R, Sawyerr A, Wellwood J, 
Taylor T, Hosking S, Lowrey S, Snook J, Goggin P, Johns T, Quine A, Somers S, 
Toh S, Bancewicz J, Greenhalgh M, Rees W, Cheruvu C, Deakin M, Evans S, Green J, 
Leslie F, Baxter J, Duane P, Rahman M, Thomas M, Williams J, Maxton D, 
Sigurdsson A, Smith M, Townson G, Gore S, Kennedy R, Khan Z, Knight J, Alexander 
D, Miller G, Parker D, Turnbull A, Turvill J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, Heslington, UK. 
rita.nevesdefaria@york.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Laparoscopic fundoplication surgery has been shown to be a 
cost-effective alternative to continued medical management over 1 year for 
patients with gastro-oesophageal reflux disease (GORD). The longer-term 
cost-effectiveness is, however, uncertain. This study evaluated the long-term 
health benefits, costs and cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic fundoplication 
compared with continued medical management in patients with GORD.
METHODS: Individual patient data were used from the 5-year follow-up of the 
REFLUX trial, a large multicentre, pragmatic, randomized trial in which 357 
patients with GORD for at least 12 months at trial entry were allocated randomly 
to early laparoscopic fundoplication or continued medical management. Health 
outcomes were expressed in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). A UK National 
Health Service perspective was used for costs.
RESULTS: The group randomized to surgery experienced better health outcomes in 
each year of follow-up, but the difference narrowed over time. At 5 years, the 
surgery group had experienced 0.216 (95 per cent confidence interval 0.021 to 
0.412) more QALYs but also accrued €1832 (1214 to 2448) more costs. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was €8481 per QALY gained. The probability 
that surgery is the most cost-effective intervention was 0.932 at a threshold of 
€24,134/QALY (£20,000/QALY). Results were robust to most sensitivity analyses, 
except where patients with missing data randomized to surgery were assumed to 
have worse health outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic fundoplication is a cost-effective alternative to 
continued medical management over 5 years. No evidence was found to suggest that 
the cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic fundoplication diminishes over time.

© 2013 British Journal of Surgery Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley & Sons, 
Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.9190
PMID: 23775366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Cancer. 2013 Jul 1;119(13):2494-502. doi: 10.1002/cncr.28084. Epub 2013 Apr
23.

Cost-effectiveness of full coverage of aromatase inhibitors for Medicare 
beneficiaries with early breast cancer.

Ito K(1), Elkin E, Blinder V, Keating N, Choudhry N.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and Pharmacoeconomics, Department of 
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA. kito@une.edu

BACKGROUND: Rates of nonadherence to aromatase inhibitors (AIs) among Medicare 
beneficiaries with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer are high. 
Out-of-pocket drug costs appear to be an important contributor to this and may 
be addressed by eliminating copayments and other forms of patient cost sharing. 
The authors estimated the incremental cost-effectiveness of providing Medicare 
beneficiaries with full prescription coverage for AIs compared with usual 
prescription coverage under the Medicare Part D program.
METHODS: A Markov state-transition model was developed to simulate AI use and 
disease progression in a hypothetical cohort of postmenopausal Medicare 
beneficiaries with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer. The analysis 
was conducted from the societal perspective and considered a lifetime horizon. 
The main outcome was an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, which was measured 
as the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained.
RESULTS: For patients receiving usual prescription coverage, average 
quality-adjusted survival was 11.35 QALYs, and lifetime costs were $83,002. For 
patients receiving full prescription coverage, average quality-adjusted survival 
was 11.38 QALYs, and lifetime costs were $82,728. Compared with usual 
prescription coverage, full prescription coverage would result in greater 
quality-adjusted survival (0.03 QALYs) and less resource use ($275) per 
beneficiary. From the perspective of Medicare, full prescription coverage was 
cost-effective (incremental cost-effectiveness ratio, $15,128 per QALY gained) 
but not cost saving.
CONCLUSIONS: Providing full prescription coverage for AIs to Medicare 
beneficiaries with hormone receptor-positive early breast cancer would both 
improve health outcomes and save money from the societal perspective.

Copyright © 2013 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28084
PMID: 23775433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Cancer. 2013 Sep 1;119(17):3113-22. doi: 10.1002/cncr.28196. Epub 2013 Jun
17.

Assessing the potential cost-effectiveness of retesting IHC0, IHC1+, or 
FISH-negative early stage breast cancer patients for HER2 status.

Garrison LP Jr(1), Lalla D, Brammer M, Babigumira JB, Wang B, Perez EA.

Author information:
(1)VeriTech Corporation, Mercer Island, Washington; University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington.

BACKGROUND: Fluorescence in situ hybridization (FISH) and immunohistochemistry 
(IHC) tests are commonly used to assess human epidermal growth factor 2 (HER2) 
status of tumors in patients with breast cancer. This analysis evaluates the 
likely cost-effectiveness of expanded retesting to assess HER2 tumor status in 
women with early stage breast cancer.
METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of expanded reflex testing from a US payer 
perspective. Expanded reflex testing is defined as retesting tumor specimens 
from patients whose tumors are IHC0, IHC1+, or FISH-negative on their first 
test. In the base case, we assumed that 80% of patient tumors are initially 
IHC-tested and 20% are FISH-tested. Testing outcomes for IHC and FISH with and 
without retesting were based on published meta-analyses. The cost of tests and 
treatment and the long-term health outcomes were obtained from the literature.
RESULTS: In the base case, we estimated that 2.27% of women who received 
expanded reflex testing would be HER2-positive and receive trastuzumab 
treatment: the projected ICER was $36,721 per life year or $39,745 per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY). This varied between $47,100 per QALY and 
$35,500 per QALY if we assumed that 1%-8% of patients retested were then HER2+, 
respectively. The results of deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis were robust. This strategy would result in 4700 (2000-17,000) patients 
being eligible to receive trastuzumab treatment annually.
CONCLUSIONS: Retesting patients who are IHC0, IHC1+, or FISH-negative is 
projected to be a cost-effective clinical strategy.

Copyright © 2013 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28196
PMID: 23775560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Mol Pharmacol. 2013 Sep;84(3):361-71. doi: 10.1124/mol.113.086967. Epub 2013
Jun  17.

Human immunodeficiency virus protease inhibitors interact with ATP binding 
cassette transporter 4/multidrug resistance protein 4: a basis for unanticipated 
enhanced cytotoxicity.

Fukuda Y(1), Takenaka K, Sparreboom A, Cheepala SB, Wu CP, Ekins S, Ambudkar SV, 
Schuetz JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, St. Jude Children's Research Hospital, 
Memphis, Tennessee, USA.

Human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) pharmacotherapy, by combining different drug 
classes such as nucleoside analogs and HIV protease inhibitors (PIs), has 
increased HIV-patient life expectancy. Consequently, among these patients, an 
increase in non-HIV-associated cancers has produced a patient cohort requiring 
both HIV and cancer chemotherapy. We hypothesized that multidrug resistance 
protein 4/ATP binding cassette transporter 4 (MRP4/ABCC4), a widely expressed 
transporter of nucleoside-based antiviral medications as well as cancer 
therapeutics might interact with PIs. Among the PIs evaluated (nelfinavir, 
ritonavir, amprenavir, saquinavir, and indinavir), only nelfinavir both 
effectively stimulated MRP4 ATPase activity and inhibited substrate-stimulated 
ATPase activity. Saos2 and human embryonic kidney 293 cells engineered to 
overexpress MRP4 were then used to assess transport and cytotoxicity. MRP4 
expression reduced intracellular accumulation of nelfinavir and consequently 
conferred survival advantage to nelfinavir cytotoxicity. Nelfinavir blocked 
Mrp4-mediated export, which is consistent with its ability to increase the 
sensitivity of MRP4-expressing cells to methotrexate. In contrast, targeted 
inactivation of Abcc4/Mrp4 in mouse cells specifically enhanced nelfinavir and 
9-(2-phosphonylmethoxyethyl) adenine cytotoxicity. These results suggest that 
nelfinavir is both an inhibitor and substrate of MRP4. Because nelfinavir is a 
new MRP4/ABCC4 substrate, we developed a MRP4/ABCC4 pharmacophore model, which 
showed that the nelfinavir binding site is shared with chemotherapeutic 
substrates such as adefovir and methotrexate. Our studies reveal, for the first 
time, that nelfinavir, a potent and cytotoxic PI, is both a substrate and 
inhibitor of MRP4. These findings suggest that HIV-infected cancer patients 
receiving nelfinavir might experience both enhanced antitumor efficacy and 
unexpected adverse toxicity given the role of MRP4/ABCC4 in exporting 
nucleoside-based antiretroviral medications and cancer chemotherapeutics.

DOI: 10.1124/mol.113.086967
PMCID: PMC3876819
PMID: 23775562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 11;8(6):e66252. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066252. Print 
2013.

Prevalence studies of dementia in mainland china, Hong Kong and taiwan: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis.

Wu YT(1), Lee HY, Norton S, Chen C, Chen H, He C, Fleming J, Matthews FE, Brayne 
C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Institute of Public Health, 
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, United Kingdom. ytw22@medschl.cam.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Many studies have considered the prevalence of dementia in mainland 
China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. However, area level estimates have not been 
produced. This study examines area differences across mainland China, Hong Kong 
and Taiwan adjusting for the effect of methodological factors with the aim of 
producing estimates of the numbers of people with dementia in these areas.
METHOD AND FINDINGS: A search of Chinese and English databases identified 76 
dementia prevalence studies based on samples drawn from mainland China, Hong 
Kong and Taiwan between 1980 and 2012. A pattern of significantly decreasing 
prevalence was observed from northern, central, southern areas of mainland 
China, Hong Kong and Taiwan. Area variations in dementia prevalence were not 
explained by differences in methodological factors (diagnostic criteria, age 
range, study sample size and sampling method), socioeconomic level or life 
expectancy between areas. The results of meta-analysis were applied to current 
population data to provide best estimate. Based on the DSM-IV diagnostic 
criteria, the total number of people aged 60 and over with dementia in mainland 
China, Hong Kong and Taiwan is 8.4 million (4.6%, 95% CI: 3.4, 5.8) and in 
northern, central and southern areas are 3.8 (5.1%, 95% CI: 4.1, 6.1), 3.2 
(4.4%, 95% CI: 3.2, 5.6) and 1.2 (3.9%, 95% CI: 2.3, 5.4) million respectively. 
These estimates were mainly based on the studies existing in highly developed 
areas and potentially affected by incomplete and insufficient data.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this review provide a robust estimate of area 
differences in dementia prevalence. Application of the estimated prevalence to 
population data reveals the number of people with dementia is expected to double 
every 20 years, areas in mainland China will be facing the greatest dementia 
challenge.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066252
PMCID: PMC3679068
PMID: 23776645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


311. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 12;8(6):e67860. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067860. Print 
2013.

The global hidden hunger indices and maps: an advocacy tool for action.

Muthayya S(1), Rah JH, Sugimoto JD, Roos FF, Kraemer K, Black RE.

Author information:
(1)Sax Institute, Sydney, Australia.

The unified global efforts to mitigate the high burden of vitamin and mineral 
deficiency, known as hidden hunger, in populations around the world are crucial 
to the achievement of most of the Millennium Development Goals (MDGs). We 
developed indices and maps of global hidden hunger to help prioritize program 
assistance, and to serve as an evidence-based global advocacy tool. Two types of 
hidden hunger indices and maps were created based on i) national prevalence data 
on stunting, anemia due to iron deficiency, and low serum retinol levels among 
preschool-aged children in 149 countries; and ii) estimates of Disability 
Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) attributed to micronutrient deficiencies in 136 
countries. A number of countries in sub-Saharan Africa, as well as India and 
Afghanistan, had an alarmingly high level of hidden hunger, with stunting, iron 
deficiency anemia, and vitamin A deficiency all being highly prevalent. The 
total DALY rates per 100,000 population, attributed to micronutrient 
deficiencies, were generally the highest in sub-Saharan African countries. In 36 
countries, home to 90% of the world's stunted children, deficiencies of 
micronutrients were responsible for 1.5-12% of the total DALYs. The pattern and 
magnitude of iodine deficiency did not conform to that of other micronutrients. 
The greatest proportions of children with iodine deficiency were in the Eastern 
Mediterranean (46.6%), European (44.2%), and African (40.4%) regions. The 
current indices and maps provide crucial data to optimize the prioritization of 
program assistance addressing global multiple micronutrient deficiencies. 
Moreover, the indices and maps serve as a useful advocacy tool in the call for 
increased commitments to scale up effective nutrition interventions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067860
PMCID: PMC3680387
PMID: 23776712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: R.E. Black has no conflict 
of interest. S. Muthayya and J.D. Sugimoto worked as consultants for Sight and 
Life, a humanitarian nutrition think tank of DSM. DSM is a global vitamin 
producer and has been a global partner of the United Nations World Food 
Programme since 2007. J.H. Rah was employed by Sight and Life when the 
manuscript was drafted. K. Kraemer is employed by Sight and Life, and F. Roos 
has been employed as a full-time biostatistician by DSM Nutritional Products 
since 2007. This does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials.


312. Surg Neurol Int. 2013 May 17;4:66. doi: 10.4103/2152-7806.112189. Print
2013.

Selective excision of cerebral metastases from the precentral gyrus.

Kellogg RG(1), Munoz LF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Rush University Medical Center, Chicago, IL, USA.

BACKGROUND: The surgical management of cerebral metastases to the eloquent 
cortex is a controversial topic. Precentral gyrus lesions are often treated with 
whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) or stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) because 
of the concern for causing new or worsened postoperative neurological deficits. 
However, there is evidence in the literature that radiation therapy carries 
significant risk of complication. We present a series of patients who were 
symptomatic from a precentral gyrus metastasis and underwent surgical excision.
METHODS: During a 2-year period from 2010 to 2012, 17 consecutive patients 
harboring a cerebral metastasis within the precentral gyrus underwent 
microsurgical resection. All patients were discussed at a multi-disciplinary 
tumor board. The prerequisite for neurosurgical treatment was stable systemic 
disease and life expectancy greater than 6 months as determined by the patient's 
oncologist. Patients also were required to harbor a symptomatic lesion within 
the motor cortex, defined as the precentral gyrus.
RESULTS: We present the 3-month neurological outcome for this group of patients. 
Surgery was uneventful and without any severe perioperative complications in all 
17 patients. At 3 month follow up, symptoms had improved or been stabilized in 
94.1% of patients and were worsened in 5.9%.
CONCLUSION: Our results have shown that surgery for cerebral metastases in the 
precentral gyrus can be done safely and improve or stabilize the neurological 
function of most patients. Microsurgical resection of precentral gyrus 
metastases should be a treatment option for patients with single or multiple 
lesions who present a focal neurologic deficit. This can be performed safely and 
without intraoperative cortical mapping.

DOI: 10.4103/2152-7806.112189
PMCID: PMC3683173
PMID: 23776752


313. Indian J Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Mar;17(2):203-10. doi:
10.4103/2230-8210.109659.

Dual energy X-ray absorptiometry: Pitfalls in measurement and interpretation of 
bone mineral density.

Garg MK(1), Kharb S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Army Hospital (Research and Referral), Delhi 
Cantonment, Delhi, India.

Osteoporosis is common disorder of elderly population all over the world as well 
as in India. The presence of osteoporosis predicts fracture risk. Fragility 
fracture has marked morbidity as well as mortality. Thus, osteoporosis has 
marked therapeutic and economic implications. Osteoporosis is defined by low 
bone mineral density (BMD). The gold-standard method to assess BMD is dual X-ray 
absorptiometry (DXA). In India, hologic and lunar machines are most commonly 
used to measure BMD; these machines have their own normative data from which 
patients BMD is compared and results are generated. As per recommendations, all 
postmenopausal women and men above 70 years need BMD estimation other than quite 
a few other specific indications as well. With increasing life expectancy, 
increased awareness of osteoporosis, and availability of DXA machines, there is 
flooding of requests for BMD estimation. In view of all this, it becomes 
imperative on part of physicians, orthopedicians, rheumatologists, and 
endocrinologists alike to be fully aware about pitfalls in BMD assessment by DXA 
and interpretation of BMD reports.

DOI: 10.4103/2230-8210.109659
PMCID: PMC3683192
PMID: 23776890

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared


314. J Palliat Med. 2013 Aug;16(8):843-7. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2013.9491. Epub 2013
Jun  18.

Research priorities in geriatric palliative care: multimorbidity.

Ritchie CS(1), Zulman DM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, UCSF, San Francisco, California 94143-1265, USA. 
christine.ritchie@ucsf.edu

With global aging and scientific advances extending survival, the number of 
adults experiencing multiple chronic conditions has grown substantially and is 
projected to increase by another third between 2000 and 2030. Among the many 
challenges posed by multimorbidity, some of the most pressing include how to 
characterize and measure comorbid conditions, understand symptoms and illness 
burden, and provide person-centered care in the context of competing health care 
priorities and increasing complexity. In this white paper emanating from a 
National Institute on Aging supported conference to discuss research gaps at the 
geriatrics-palliative care interface, the authors review common definitions of 
multimorbidity; describe the association between multimorbidity and quality of 
life, functional status, quality of care, and health care utilization; note 
content and methodological gaps in multimorbidity evidence; and make 
recommendations regarding research priorities in this area of expanding public 
health impact.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2013.9491
PMCID: PMC3717194
PMID: 23777331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Vaccine. 2013 Aug 20;31(37):3962-71. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.06.008.
Epub  2013 Jun 15.

Incremental cost-effectiveness evaluation of vaccinating girls against cervical 
cancer pre- and post-sexual debut in Belgium.

Demarteau N(1), Van Kriekinge G, Simon P.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, GlaxoSmithKline Vaccines, Rue Fleming 20, B-1300 Wavre, 
Belgium. nadia.x.demarteau@gskbio.com

BACKGROUND: Vaccination against human papillomavirus (HPV) to prevent cervical 
cancer (CC) primarily targets young girls before sexual debut and is 
cost-effective. We assessed whether vaccination with the HPV-16/18 
AS04-adjuvanted vaccine added to screening remains cost-effective in females 
after sexual debut compared to screening alone in Belgium. The role of 
protection against non-HPV-16/18 was also investigated.
METHODS: A published Markov cohort model was adapted to Belgium. The model 
replicated the natural history of HPV infection, the effects of screening, and 
vaccination. Vaccine efficacy (VE) included non-HPV-16/18 protection based on 
the PATRICIA clinical trial data. Pre- and post-HPV exposure VE were 
differentiated. Lifetime vaccine protection was assumed. Input data were 
obtained from literature review, national databases and a Delphi panel. Costing 
was from a healthcare payer perspective. Costs were discounted at 3% and effects 
at 1.5%. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained and the number of lesions prevented with vaccination 
from age 12 to 40 was evaluated. The specific effect of non-HPV-16/18 protection 
was investigated. Univariate sensitivity analysis was performed on key 
variables.
RESULTS: The model estimated that vaccinating a cohort of 100,000 girls at age 
12 would prevent 646 CC cases over a lifetime (102 non-HPV-16/18) with an ICER 
of €9171/QALY. Vaccinating at age 26 would prevent 340 CC cases (40 
non-HPV-16/18) with an ICER of €17,348/QALY and vaccinating at age 40 would 
prevent 146 CC cases (17 non-HPV-16/18) with an ICER of €42,847/QALY. The ICER 
remained under the highly cost-effective threshold (1×GDP/capita) until age 33 
years and under the cost-effective threshold (3×GDP/capita) beyond age 40.
CONCLUSION: Extending HPV vaccination to females post-sexual debut could lead to 
a substantial reduction in CC-related burden and would be cost-effective in 
Belgium.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.06.008
PMID: 23777952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. Health Place. 2013 Sep;23:70-8. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2013.04.003. Epub
 2013 May 9.

Small-area health comparisons using health-adjusted life expectancies: a 
Bayesian random-effects approach.

Jonker MF(1), Congdon PD, van Lenthe FJ, Donkers B, Burdorf A, Mackenbach JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. m.jonker@erasmusmc.nl

Health-adjusted life expectancy (HALE) is one of the most attractive summary 
measures of population health. It provides balanced attention to fatal as well 
as non-fatal health outcomes, is sensitive to the severity of morbidity within 
the population, and can be readily compared between areas with very different 
population age structures. HALE, however, cannot be calculated at the small-area 
level using traditional life table methodology. Hence we propose a Bayesian 
random-effects modeling approach that recognizes correlations and pools strength 
between sexes, age-groups, geographical areas, and health outcomes. This 
approach allows for the calculation of HALE for areas as small as 2000 person 
years at risk and with relatively modest health state survey sample sizes. The 
feasibility of the Bayesian approach is illustrated in a real-life example, 
which also shows how differences in areas' health performances can be adequately 
quantified. Such information can be invaluable for the appropriate targetting 
and subsequent evaluation of urban regeneration, neighborhood renewal, and 
community-based initiatives aimed at improving health and reducing health 
inequalities.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2013.04.003
PMID: 23778148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2013 Jul;29(3):261-8. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462313000226. Epub 2013 Jun 19.

Cost-effectiveness of an advance notification letter to increase colorectal 
cancer screening.

Cronin P(1), Goodall S, Lockett T, O'Keefe CM, Norman R, Church J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, Faculty of Business, 
University of Technology Sydney, NSW, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study is to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a 
patient-direct mailed advance notification letter on participants of a National 
Bowel Cancer Screening Program (NBCSP) in Australia, which was launched in 
August 2006 and offers free fecal occult blood testing to all Australians 
turning 50, 55, or 65 years of age in any given year.
METHODS: This study followed a hypothetical cohort of 50-year-old, 55-year-old, 
and 65-year-old patients undergoing fecal occult blood test (FOBT) screening 
through a decision analytic Markov model. The intervention compared two 
strategies: (i) advance letter, NBCSP, and FOBT compared with (ii) NBCSP and 
FOBT. The main outcome measures were life-years gained (LYG), quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) gained and incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: An advance notification screening letter would yield an additional 54 
per 100,000 colorectal cancer deaths avoided compared with no letter. The 
estimated cost-effectiveness was $3,976 per LYG and $6,976 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: An advance notification letter in the NBCSP may have a significant 
impact on LYG and cancer deaths avoided. It is cost-effective and offers a 
feasible strategy that could be rolled out across other screening program at an 
acceptable cost.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462313000226
PMID: 23778152 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Clinics (Sao Paulo). 2013 May;68(5):710-7. doi: 10.6061/clinics/2013(05)20.

Exercise training as a preventive tool for age-related disorders: a brief 
review.

Ciolac EG(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Estadual Paulista-UNESP, Department of Physical Education, 
School of Sciences, Bauru/SP, Brazil. ciolac@fc.unesp.br

Aging populations are a worldwide phenomenon affecting both developed and 
developing countries. This issue raises serious concerns for both governments 
and the general population. Regular participation in physical activity and/or 
exercise training programs can minimize the physiological alterations that occur 
during aging and may contribute to improvements in health and well-being. The 
present review will discuss the role of regular exercise training in preventing 
age-related physiological decline and, consequently, associated chronic 
diseases. Compelling evidence that regular exercise and/or physical activity can 
improve quality of life, prevent or control the development of chronic disease 
and increase life expectancy is shown. In summary, regular exercise training 
and/or physical activity has an important influence on aging and may help to 
prevent age-related disorders.

DOI: 10.6061/clinics/2013(05)20
PMCID: PMC3654306
PMID: 23778419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest was reported.


319. Cad Saude Publica. 2013 Jun;29(6):1131-40.

[Disaggregation of differences in life expectancy between the States of Minas 
Gerais, Rio de Janeiro, and São Paulo, Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Chiavegatto Filho AD(1), Laurenti R.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Saúde Pública, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brasil. 
alexdiasporto@usp.br

Comparisons between States of Brazil are still rare in public health. The States 
of Minas Gerais, São Paulo, and Rio de Janeiro have adequate mortality registry 
coverage and are geographically similar, thus making comparison appropriate for 
identifying possible interventions in public health. Meanwhile, the three States 
show important socioeconomic differences, consistently worse for Minas Gerais. 
The study analyzed the disaggregation of differences in life expectancy in Minas 
Gerais as compared to São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro for 1996, 2000, and 2010, 
using the Arriaga methodology. Minas Gerais had a higher life expectancy than 
the two other States for the entire period, in both men and women. Advanced age 
and chronic illness, especially cancer and ischemic heart disease, were the most 
important factors in this difference. Differences in lifestyle and physical 
exercise (better for Minas Gerais than for São Paulo and Rio de Janeiro) could 
help explain the apparent inconsistency between socioeconomic indicators and 
life expectancy.

PMID: 23778545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Cad Saude Publica. 2013 Jun;29(6):1217-29.

[The health transition and changes in healthy life expectancy in the elderly 
population: possible impacts of chronic disease prevention].

[Article in Portuguese]

