short-lived. Technique failure develops after years on PD so dialysis modality 
will often change during a long dialysis career. Quality of life studies, which 
must be interpreted carefully, indicate that patients require information about 
the impact of dialysis on their lifestyle as well as health-related outcomes so 
that they can choose the most suitable dialysis modality. Increasing numbers of 
frail elderly patients are starting dialysis; support in the home by nursing 
staff may facilitate the use of PD in this group. In the UK guidelines 
prioritise the patient's choice of dialysis modality (where feasible) based on 
good quality predialysis education. Cost of treatment is generally lower on PD, 
which is particularly recommended for patients with residual renal function and 
few comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1136/postgradmedj-2012-131406
PMID: 23908406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Bone Joint J. 2013 Aug;95-B(8):1094-100. doi: 10.1302/0301-620X.95B8.31822.

Cost-effectiveness in the management of Dupuytren's contracture. A Canadian 
cost-utility analysis of current and future management strategies.

Baltzer H(1), Binhammer PA.

Author information:
(1)Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Avenue, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada. heather.baltzer@utoronto.ca

In Canada, Dupuytren's contracture is managed with partial fasciectomy or 
percutaneous needle aponeurotomy (PNA). Injectable collagenase will soon be 
available. The optimal management of Dupuytren's contracture is controversial 
and trade-offs exist between the different methods. Using a cost-utility 
analysis approach, our aim was to identify the most cost-effective form of 
treatment for managing Dupuytren's contracture it and the threshold at which 
collagenase is cost-effective. We developed an expected-value decision analysis 
model for Dupuytren's contracture affecting a single finger, comparing the 
cost-effectiveness of fasciectomy, aponeurotomy and collagenase from a societal 
perspective. Cost-effectiveness, one-way sensitivity and variability analyses 
were performed using standard thresholds for cost effective treatment ($50 000 
to $100 000/QALY gained). Percutaneous needle aponeurotomy was the preferred 
strategy for managing contractures affecting a single finger. The 
cost-effectiveness of primary aponeurotomy improved when repeated to treat 
recurrence. Fasciectomy was not cost-effective. Collagenase was cost-effective 
relative to and preferred over aponeurotomy at $875 and $470 per course of 
treatment, respectively. In summary, our model supports the trend towards 
non-surgical interventions for managing Dupuytren's contracture affecting a 
single finger. Injectable collagenase will only be feasible in our publicly 
funded healthcare system if it costs significantly less than current United 
States pricing.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.95B8.31822
PMID: 23908426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Rambam Maimonides Med J. 2012 Oct 31;3(4):e0022. doi: 10.5041/RMMJ.10093.
Print  2012 Oct.

The contentious history of sirtuin debates.

Naiman S(1), Cohen HY.

Author information:
(1)The Mina & Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan 52900, Israel.

The sirtuins are highly conserved enzyme homologues of the yeast Sir2, with 
activities of NAD+ dependent deacetylase and/or mono ADP ribosyltransferase. A 
long line of evidence has implicated sirtuins in regulating the aging process of 
yeast, worms, flies, and rodents. Moreover, much work has been published on the 
important role of sirtuins in several age-related diseases such as diabetes type 
II, cancer, cardiovascular diseases, and dyslipidemia. However, despite the many 
publications supporting a pro-longevity role for sirtuins, there has been 
emerging debate about the direct role of Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila 
melanogaster sirtuins in aging and in lifespan extension in response to dietary 
restriction. In addition, until recently, the role of the seven mammalian 
sirtuins, SIRT1 to SIRT7, in regulating lifespan was unclear. Here, we review 
the history of the scientific debate on the role of sirtuins in regulating 
lifespan, especially in light of a recent publication showing a direct 
regulation of mammalian lifespan by a sirtuin family member, SIRT6.

DOI: 10.5041/RMMJ.10093
PMCID: PMC3678826
PMID: 23908846


681. Rambam Maimonides Med J. 2012 Oct 31;3(4):e0025. doi: 10.5041/RMMJ.10089.
Print  2012 Oct.

Accelerated Aging in HIV Patients.

Meir-Shafrir K(1), Pollack S.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Allergy, Immunology & AIDS, Rambam Health Care Campus, Haifa, 
Israel, and the.

Life expectancy has been increasing in the last few decades in the Western world 
and is accompanied by higher occurrence of age-related diseases like metabolic, 
cardiovascular, and renal diseases and also with a decline in immune functions. 
In HIV-infected people, due to the use of combination antiretroviral therapy 
(cART), life expectancy has increased. As a result, non-AIDS conditions which 
are age-associated have become more prevalent and appear earlier, resulting in 
accelerated aging in HIV patients. These non-AIDS conditions in HIV patients are 
associated with CD4+ T cell counts: lower counts are associated with higher 
rates of liver, cardiovascular, renal, and neurocognitive disorders. The effect 
of viral load and cART on the earlier occurrence of age-associated diseases is 
less significant than the CD4 count effect. Thus, the loss of immune functions 
in HIV-infected patients may enhance aging.

DOI: 10.5041/RMMJ.10089
PMCID: PMC3678823
PMID: 23908849


682. Accid Anal Prev. 2013 Dec;61:141-5. doi: 10.1016/j.aap.2013.06.029. Epub
2013  Jun 29.

Can a lot more people live to one hundred and what if they did?

Olshansky SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Illinois at Chicago, United States. 
Electronic address: sjayo@uic.edu.

In the 21st century humanity will witness unprecedented, increases in the number 
of older people, especially centenarians, in both the developed and developing 
world. From a public policy standpoint, the aging of our populations and the 
longer lives we experience will change, the fabric of our modern world - from 
the funding of age entitlement programs, to the rising cost of health care, to 
the new ways in which we transport ourselves in increasingly more urban 
environments. If it becomes possible for biomedical advances to manufacture a 
form of biological plasticity among the new generations reaching 85 and older in 
the future, much like that which now exists for the recent middle-aged classes 
of people aged 65-85, then the future of aging will be bright. If we fail to 
marshal resources to confront the biological processes of aging, then it is 
possible that the more destructive side of senescence will emerge. In this 
paper, I explore the various perspectives on the future course of longevity, 
examine the prospects for significant increases in the number of very old people 
- especially centenarians - and present a general view of the demographic aging 
of our changing society.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aap.2013.06.029
PMID: 23910247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 2013 Aug;24(3):491-505. doi: 
10.1016/j.pmr.2013.03.003. Epub 2013 Apr 13.

Life care planning for the child with cerebral palsy.

Katz RT(1), Johnson CB.

Author information:
(1)Washington University School of Medicine, 4660 Maryland Avenue, Suite 250, St 
Louis, MO 63108, USA. pianodoctor@pol.net

A life care plan may be useful to plan the needs of the disabled child with 
cerebral palsy. A cost analysis for a life care plan depends on the life 
expectancy of the child, and careful review of the needs of the child. A wide 
variety of support services may be available in the public sector. Key physical 
disabilities are associated with diminished life span, as are diminished 
cognitive abilities, even in the absence of physical impairment. The life care 
plan must follow the generally accepted and peer-reviewed methodology, with an 
appropriate foundation for each item recommended.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmr.2013.03.003
PMID: 23910487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 2013 Aug;24(3):521-38. doi: 
10.1016/j.pmr.2013.03.005. Epub 2013 May 10.

Vocational rehabilitation process and work life.

Robinson R(1), Paquette S.

Author information:
(1)Robinson Work Rehabilitation Services Co, PO Box 40050, Jacksonville, FL 
32203, USA. rick@rwrehab.com

This article describes the evolution of vocational rehabilitation and the 
development of the rehabilitation counselor's role as the generally accepted 
expert in forensic vocational rehabilitation assessment. The vocational 
rehabilitation process is discussed within an empirically derived structural 
model of forensic vocational assessment. The concept of work-life expectancy is 
discussed as a key feature in estimating the duration of time vocational damages 
are likely to occur based on a person's remaining work participation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmr.2013.03.005
PMID: 23910489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Phys Med Rehabil Clin N Am. 2013 Aug;24(3):539-51. doi: 
10.1016/j.pmr.2013.03.007. Epub 2013 May 10.

Life expectancy determination.

Vachon PJ(1), Sestier F.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Consulting, 129 Holly Terrace, Sunnyvale, CA 94086, USA. 
vachon@lifeexpectancyexpert.net

Expert opinion on life expectancy must make reasonable factual assumptions, 
which entails finding a proper group to which the individual being assessed will 
be compared, as well as use of appropriate and reliable technical methods. 
Reasonable judgment should be exercised in the selection of the studies 
employed. A schedule of mortality rates must be built on a fair assessment of 
the person's medical condition and of relevant peer-reviewed findings. A clear 
and detailed report should be produced, containing the basis for the opinion, 
the description of the methods employed, and the life-expectancy calculations 
specific to the individual.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pmr.2013.03.007
PMID: 23910490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. J Viral Hepat. 2013 Sep;20(9):600-1. doi: 10.1111/jvh.12123.

Viral hepatitis and the Global Burden of Disease: a need to regroup.

Cooke GS(1), Lemoine M, Thursz M, Gore C, Swan T, Kamarulzaman A, DuCros P, Ford 
N.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases, Imperial College, London, UK. g.cooke@imperial.ac.uk

Comment on
    Lancet. 2012 Dec 15;380(9859):2095-128.
    Lancet. 2012 Dec 15;380(9859):2197-223.

DOI: 10.1111/jvh.12123
PMID: 23910643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Health Expect. 2015 Oct;18(5):1349-62. doi: 10.1111/hex.12113. Epub 2013 Aug
2.

Presenting life with cystic fibrosis: a Q-methodological approach to developing 
balanced, experience-based prenatal screening information.

Wright KF(1), Bryant LD(2), Morley S(2), Hewison J(2), Duff AJ(3), Peckham D(3).

Author information:
(1)Bradford Teaching Hospitals Foundation Trust, Bradford, UK.
(2)Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(3)Leeds Teaching Hospitals NHS Trust, Leeds, UK.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is one of the most common life-threatening 
genetically inherited conditions and prenatal screening for CF is available in 
many countries. Genetic counsellors and other health professionals are expected 
to provide information about the condition in a way that facilitates personal 
decision making. Knowing what information to deliver about complex genetic 
conditions to support informed screening decisions can be challenging for health 
professionals.
OBJECTIVE: To solicit views from those with personal experience with CF on which 
aspects of the condition they consider most important to include in prenatal 
screening materials.
METHODS: Q-methodology; an approach to systematically explore variations in 
viewpoint that combines factor analytic techniques with qualitative approaches 
to pattern interpretation.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Twelve adults with CF and 18 parents of affected 
children were recruited from a regional centre in the UK.
RESULTS: Five distinct viewpoints on the items most and least important to 
include in screening information were identified: Factor 1 the normality of life 
with CF and increasing life expectancy; Factor 2 the hardships and reduced 
lifespan. Factor 3 medical interventions and the importance of societal support. 
Factor 4 longer-term consequences of CF. Factor 5 the ability to adjust to the 
condition.
DISCUSSION: The identification of five different views on what represented the 
most and least important information to include about CF highlights the 
challenge of portraying a complex genetic condition in a balanced and accurate 
manner. Novel ways in which Q-methodology findings can be used to meet this 
challenge are presented.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hex.12113
PMCID: PMC5060888
PMID: 23910894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Neuro Oncol. 2013 Oct;15(10):1405-12. doi: 10.1093/neuonc/not100. Epub 2013
Aug  1.

Enzastaurin before and concomitant with radiation therapy, followed by 
enzastaurin maintenance therapy, in patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma 
without MGMT promoter hypermethylation.

Wick W(1), Steinbach JP, Platten M, Hartmann C, Wenz F, von Deimling A, Shei P, 
Moreau-Donnet V, Stoffregen C, Combs SE.

Author information:
(1)Corresponding Author: Wolfgang Wick, MD, Department of Neurooncology, 
National Center for Tumor Diseases and Neurology Clinic, University Clinic 
Heidelberg and German Cancer Research Centre, Im Neuenheimer Feld 400, 
69120-Heidelberg, Germany. wolfgang.wick@med.uni-heidelberg.de.

BACKGROUND: This study's primary objective was evaluation of the 
progression-free survival rate at 6 months (PFS-6) in patients with newly 
diagnosed glioblastoma without O(6)-methylguanine-DNA-methyltransferase (MGMT) 
promoter hypermethylation postsurgically treated with enzastaurin before and 
concomitantly with radiation therapy, followed by enzastaurin maintenance 
therapy. PFS-6 of at least 55% was set to be relevant compared with the data of 
the EORTC 26981/22981 NCIC CE.3 trial.
METHODS: Adult patients with a life expectancy of at least 12 weeks who were 
newly diagnosed with a histologically proven supratentorial glioblastoma without 
MGMT promoter hypermethylation were eligible. Patients were treated with 
enzastaurin prior to, concomitantly with, and after standard partial brain 
radiotherapy. Here we report on a multicenter, open-label, uncontrolled phase II 
study of patients with newly diagnosed glioblastoma without MGMT promoter 
hypermethylation treated with enzastaurin and radiation therapy within 4 study 
periods.
RESULTS: PFS-6 was 53.6% (95% confidence interval [CI]: 39.8-65.6). The median 
overall survival was 15.0 months (95% CI: 11.9-17.9) for all patients, 3.9 
months (95% CI: 0.8-9.0) for patients with biopsy, 15.4 months (95% CI: 
10.1-17.9) for patients with partial resection, and 18.9 months (95% CI: 
13.9-28.5) for patients with complete resection. The safety profile in this 
study was as expected from previous trials, and the therapy was well tolerated.
CONCLUSIONS: PFS-6 missed the primary planned outcome of 55%. The secondary 
exploratory analysis according to resection status of the different subgroups of 
patients with biopsies, partial resection, and complete resection demonstrates 
the strong prognostic influence of resection on overall survival.

DOI: 10.1093/neuonc/not100
PMCID: PMC3779043
PMID: 23911595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2013 Dec;46(8):756-68. doi: 10.1007/s00391-013-0521-9.

[Comparison of development and mortality under domestic or institutional care 
with and without medical rehabilitation : The Hannover morbidity and mortality 
long-term care study].

[Article in German]

Seger W(1), Sittaro NA, Lohse R, Rabba J.

Author information:
(1)Medizinischer Dienst der Krankenversicherung Niedersachsen (MDKN), 
Hildesheimer Str. 202-206, 30519, Hannover, Deutschland, Wolfgang.Seger@mdkn.de.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Empirical data, representative of the total 
population, are necessary for medico-actuarial risk calculations. Our study 
compares mortalities of long-term care (LTC) patients who are covered by 
statutory health insurance with regard to age and distribution of care levels 
when in home or institutional care with a special focus on whether 
rehabilitative care was performed.
METHODS: The data of 88,575 LTC patients were analyzed longitudinally for 10 
years, using routine data analyses on the files of the German Federal Health 
Insurance fund (average observation period 2.5 years, a total of 221,625 
observation years). The numbers of LTC patients and their care levels while in 
home or institutional care were calculated, as were any changes to another care 
level or discontinuation of LTC benefits (as a result of the need for care 
falling below the eligibility criteria for care leveI or to death) during 1-10 
years after the onset of LTC, always with respect to whether rehabilitative care 
had taken place or not. For the evaluation of care factors an indicator was 
developed.
RESULTS: Total mortality was found to decline and reactivation to increase 
considerably for LTC patients after rehabilitation, basically irrespective of 
their age or care level and in home or institutional care settings as well. Ten 
years after the onset of care, 30.7 % of the patients with rehabilitation were 
still in nursing care, 9.8 % were reactivated and 59.5 % deceased. In contrast, 
only 9.2 % were still in nursing care, 3.7 % reactivated and 87.1 % deceased 
without rehabilitation. These results are irrespective of age distribution, care 
level, and residence in home or institutional care settings. The care status of 
patients, measured by the percentage in reactivation, care level I-III, and 
death, substantially depends on age at onset and care level and in addition on 
rehabilitative procedures. Hypotheses for further research are outlined.
CONCLUSION: Rehabilitation has a clear-cut potential for life extension as well 
as reducing or detaining long-term care if applied to (LTC) patients. The group 
of rehabilitated LTC patients has a comparatively higher degree of reducing or 
resolving LTC up to a complete reactivation or prolonging of life in spite of 
care needed. A successful rehabilitative effect occurs over all age groups and 
all care levels during home care considerably as well as during institutional 
care to a lower extent. Differentiation between the age at onset of LTC, care 
level, and first year and follow-up mortalities is recommended as well as 
between rehabilitated and nonrehabilitated care patients when undertaking 
medico-actuarial calculations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-013-0521-9
PMID: 23912129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Arch Argent Pediatr. 2013 Jul-Aug;111(4):e86-8. doi: 10.5546/aap.2013.e86.

[Borderline cerebellar tonsillar ectopia in a child with headache. Case report].

[Article in Spanish]

Cizmeci MN(1), Kanburoglu MK, Gultop K, Cay P, Kosehan D, Sonmez FM.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Radiología, Fatih University Medical School, Ankara, Turkey. 
nevzatcizmeci@gmail.com

Frequent headache is a symptom that leads to significant distress and functional 
impairment, both in childhood and in adulthood. Some medical conditions are 
associated with a higher frequency of headaches. Borderline cerebellar tonsillar 
ectopia which may be defined as the downward extension of cerebellar tonsils of 
<5 mm below the foramen magnum is among these conditions. Although questions 
persist about the clinical significance of this rare entity on headache, there 
are studies reporting severe headache syndrome in 16% of these patients. We 
report a 9-year old male patient, who presented to our clinic with a frontal 
headache of 5 years' duration, and was found to have borderline cerebellar 
tonsillar ectopia on magnetic resonance imaging. To the best of our knowledge, 
there has not been a reported case of this coexistence at this early stage of 
life. We would like to contribute to the literature, owing to the very rare and 
atypical presentation of this entity in the early childhood period.

DOI: 10.5546/aap.2013.e86
PMID: 23912299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Fish Physiol Biochem. 2014 Feb;40(1):235-44. doi: 10.1007/s10695-013-9839-x.
 Epub 2013 Aug 4.

HIRA is essential for the development of gibel carp.

Wang MY(1), Guo QH, Du XZ, Zhou L, Luo Q, Zeng QH, Wang JL, Zhao HB, Wang YF.

Author information:
(1)Hubei Key Laboratory of Genetic Regulation and Integrative Biology, College 
of Life Science, Central China Normal University, Wuhan, 430079, People's 
Republic of China.

HIRA is one of the chaperones of histone H3.3. Mutation of Hira results in 
embryonic lethality in mice, suggesting a critical role in embryogenesis. 
However, Hira-mutated Drosophila may survive to adults, indicating that it is 
dispensable in Drosophila development. The role of Hira in fish development is 
unknown. In this study we first investigated the expression of Hira during 
embryogenesis of gibel carp (Carassius auratus gibelio) by whole-mount in situ 
hybridization. We found that Hira signal appeared ubiquitously in the early 
embryos. After gastrulation, it appeared mainly along the anterior-posterior 
axis, including the tail bud. In hatching period, the signal was detected in 
head, heart, and the endoderm region on the back of yolk. Then by microinjection 
with morpholino-HIRA at the beginning of development, we observed delayed 
gastrulation and abnormal somitogenesis in gibel carp embryos. The HIRA 
morphants exhibited short trunk, limited yolk extension, and twisted tail. Most 
of the mutants died during embryogenesis or shortly after hatching. The rest of 
the HIRA morphants could survive to larvae but with severe defects in 
organogenesis. These data suggest that HIRA may be essential for the development 
of gibel carp, and this function is conserved in vertebrates.

DOI: 10.1007/s10695-013-9839-x
PMID: 23912483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Cancer Chemother Pharmacol. 2013 Sep;72(3):637-42. doi: 
10.1007/s00280-013-2239-1. Epub 2013 Aug 3.

A randomized controlled trial of gemcitabine plus cisplatin versus gemcitabine 
alone in the treatment of metastatic pancreatic cancer.

Chao Y(1), Wu CY, Wang JP, Lee RC, Lee WP, Li CP.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Center, Taipei Veterans General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan.

PURPOSE: To compare the efficacy and toxicity of single-agent gemcitabine with 
gemcitabine plus cisplatin (G + C) in patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer
METHODS: Forty-six patients with metastatic pancreatic cancer were randomized to 
receive gemcitabine alone (n = 25; 1,000 mg m(-2)) or G + C (n = 21; 
1,000 mg m(-2) gemcitabine and 25 mg m(-2) cisplatin). Treatments were 
administered once a week for 3 weeks and repeated every 4 weeks.
RESULTS: Patient characteristics were comparable between the gemcitabine alone 
and G + C groups. The gemcitabine dose intensity was similar between the 
gemcitabine alone and G + C groups (684 ± 32  vs. 617 ± 31 mg m(-2) week(-1)). 
The cisplatin dose intensity was 15.1 ± 0.9 mg m(-2) week(-1) × 9.9 ± 1.8 weeks. 
Partial response rates were 8 % (2/25) for gemcitabine alone and 4.8 % (1/21) 
for G + C (p = 1). The median survival and median time to progression were 7.7 
and 4.6 months for gemcitabine alone and 7.9 and 3.6 months for G + C, 
respectively (p = 0.752 and p = 0.857, respectively). Clinical benefit was 36 % 
for gemcitabine alone and 29 % for G + C (p = 0.592). Quality-adjusted life 
months were 5.6 ± 0.3 for the gemcitabine alone group and 3.8 ± 0.2 for the 
G + C group (p < 0.001). The frequency of grade 3/4 neutropenia (8 vs. 19 %) and 
anemia (8 vs. 10 %) and the number of hospitalization days per month of survival 
(4.7 ± 1.3 vs. 6.3 ± 1.6 days; p = 0.431) were not significantly different 
between patients who received gemcitabine alone and those who received G + C. 
However, patients in the G + C group had a higher rate of thrombocytopenia than 
did patients in the gemcitabine alone group (62 vs. 24 %; p = 0.009).
CONCLUSIONS: Gemcitabine alone and G + C had comparable and modest response 
rates in metastatic pancreatic cancer, but gemcitabine alone produced less 
toxicities than did G + C.

DOI: 10.1007/s00280-013-2239-1
PMID: 23912692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. J Vis Exp. 2013 Jul 25;(77):50446. doi: 10.3791/50446.

RNAi-mediated double gene knockdown and gustatory perception measurement in 
honey bees (Apis mellifera).

Wang Y(1), Baker N, Amdam GV.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Arizona State University, Arizona, USA.

This video demonstrates novel techniques of RNA interference (RNAi) which 
downregulate two genes simultaneously in honey bees using double-stranded RNA 
(dsRNA) injections. It also presents a protocol of proboscis extension response 
(PER) assay for measuring gustatory perception. RNAi-mediated gene knockdown is 
an effective technique downregulating target gene expression. This technique is 
usually used for single gene manipulation, but it has limitations to detect 
interactions and joint effects between genes. In the first part of this video, 
we present two strategies to simultaneously knock down two genes (called double 
gene knockdown). We show both strategies are able to effectively suppress two 
genes, vitellogenin (vg) and ultraspiracle (usp), which are in a regulatory 
feedback loop. This double gene knockdown approach can be used to dissect 
interrelationships between genes and can be readily applied in different insect 
species. The second part of this video is a demonstration of proboscis extension 
response (PER) assay in honey bees after the treatment of double gene knockdown. 
The PER assay is a standard test for measuring gustatory perception in honey 
bees, which is a key predictor for how fast a honey bee's behavioral maturation 
is. Greater gustatory perception of nest bees indicates increased behavioral 
development which is often associated with an earlier age at onset of foraging 
and foraging specialization in pollen. In addition, PER assay can be applied to 
identify metabolic states of satiation or hunger in honey bees. Finally, PER 
assay combined with pairing different odor stimuli for conditioning the bees is 
also widely used for learning and memory studies in honey bees.

DOI: 10.3791/50446
PMCID: PMC3846282
PMID: 23912844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. Hellenic J Cardiol. 2013 Jul-Aug;54(4):289-300.

Economic evaluation of dabigatran etexilate in the management of atrial 
fibrillation in Greece.

Andrikopoulos GK(1), Fragoulakis V, Maniadakis N.

Author information:
(1)National School of Public Health, Athens, Greece.

INTRODUCTION: The objective of the present study was to evaluate, from an 
economic perspective, dabigatran etexilate in comparison to existing 
pharmaceutical therapeutic options available for the protection of 
moderate-to-high risk patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation from 
cardioembolic risk.
METHODS: An existing Markov model was adapted to the Greek setting to reflect 
the natural course of the disease and the management of patients with different 
therapies. The model predicts health and economic outcomes and the implications 
for the social security system during the course of a patient's lifetime. The 
data for the population of the model were derived from the international 
literature and local economic databases.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) of 
dabigatran 150 mg twice daily relative to the other therapies varied from €5547 
to €11,762 and that of dabigatran 110 mg twice daily from €7398 to €16,437. The 
incremental cost per QALY of dabigatran 150 mg relative to aspirin, the least 
costly option, was €11,762 and relative to warfarin and acenocoumarol, the local 
standards of care, it was €11,400 and €11,224 respectively, well below the local 
thresholds of acceptance.
CONCLUSION: Dabigatran etexilate may represent a cost-effective option for the 
prevention of thromboembolic events in AF patients at moderate-to-high risk of 
stroke or systemic embolism.

PMID: 23912921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 Sep;15(7):767-72. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0522-z.
Epub  2013 Aug 3.

Cost-effectiveness of lung transplantation and its evolution: the Portuguese 
case.

Mendonça L(1), Perelman J, Rodrigues V, Fragata J.

Author information:
(1)Hospital das Forças Armadas, Lisbon, Portugal, 
luis.manuel.mendonca@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: We analyzed the costs and outcomes of lung transplant in Portugal 
and its evolution since it was first performed in 2000.
METHODS: Data were collected for all patients waiting for transplant from 31 
December 2000 until 31 December 2010 (n = 61). Patients waiting for transplant 
were used as the comparison group. We calculated the mean restricted survival 
time using the Kaplan-Meier estimation method. The time horizon was closed upon 
the death of the last surviving patient. Costs and consequences were discounted 
at 5% per annum. We calculated the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
transplant as compared to no transplant. Deterministic and probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses were performed. We tested volume-outcome effects using a 
parametric survival regression.
RESULTS: The cost of lung transplantation was 77,223€ per QALY and 121,276€ per 
life-year. Assuming a 50,000€/QALY willingness-to-pay, lung transplant would be 
cost-effective with a 37% probability. Survival improved substantially from 5.15 
years over the 2001-2010 period to 6.94 years for the 2008-2010 period. When 
restricting our analysis to the 2008-2010 period, the cost-effectiveness ratio 
decreased to €79,016 per life-year gained and €69,241 per QALY. Survival was 
significantly associated with the number of procedures performed.
CONCLUSION: Although above commonly accepted cost-effectiveness thresholds, the 
economic value of lung transplant holds promise in Portugal due to the large 
improvement in survival over the 2001-2010 period. The life-threatening 
character of the motivating conditions, the absence of alternative treatment, 
and equity concerns should be also accounted for when assessing the "value for 
money" of lung transplant.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0522-z
PMID: 23913127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Tex Heart Inst J. 2013;40(3):290-2.

Diabetes and cardiovascular disease: what have we learned in 2012?

Cunningham GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes & Endocrinology, St. Luke's Episcopal Hospital, Houston, Texas 
77030, USA. glennc@bcm.edu

PMCID: PMC3709222
PMID: 23914022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Oct;38(7):794-803. doi: 10.1111/apt.12435. Epub
 2013 Aug 5.

Cost and health consequences of treatment of primary biliary cirrhosis with 
ursodeoxycholic acid.

Boberg KM(1), Wisløff T, Kjøllesdal KS, Støvring H, Kristiansen IS.

Author information:
(1)Section for Gastroenterology, Department of Transplantation Medicine, Oslo 
University Hospital, Rikshospitalet, Oslo, Norway. kboberg@ous-hf.no

BACKGROUND: Long-term use of ursodeoxycholic acid (UDCA) is the recommended 
therapy in primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC). The lifetime effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of UDCA in PBC have, however, not been assessed.
AIM: To estimate the health outcomes and lifetime costs of a Norwegian cohort of 
PBC patients on UDCA.
METHODS: Norwegian PBC patients (n = 182) (90% females; mean age 56.3 ± 8.9 
years; Mayo risk score 4.38) who were included in a 5-year open-label study of 
UDCA therapy were subsequently followed up for up to 11.5 years. The lifetime 
survival was estimated using a Weibull survival model. The survival benefit from 
UDCA was based on a randomised clinical trial from Canada, comparing the effect 
of non-UDCA and UDCA. Survival and costs of standard care vs. standard care plus 
UDCA were simulated in a Markov model with death and liver transplantation as 
major events, invoking transition of a patient's state in the model.
RESULTS: The gain in life expectancy for a PBC patient on UDCA compared with 
standard care was 2.24 years (1.19 years discounted). The lifetime treatment 
costs were EUR 151,403 and EUR 157,741 (EUR 102,912 and EUR 115,031 discounted) 
for patients with and without UDCA respectively. A probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis indicated an 82% probability that UDCA entails both greater life 
expectancy and lower costs than standard care.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study indicate that UDCA therapy is a dominant 
strategy as it confers reduced morbidity and mortality, as well as cost savings, 
compared with standard therapy.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12435
PMID: 23915021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. BMC Med Inform Decis Mak. 2013 Aug 5;13:83. doi: 10.1186/1472-6947-13-83.

Interdisciplinary decision making in prostate cancer therapy - 5-years' time 
trends at the Interdisciplinary Prostate Cancer Center (IPC) of the Charité 
Berlin.

Baumunk D(1), Reunkoff R, Kushner J, Baumunk A, Kempkensteffen C, Steiner U, 
Weikert S, Moser L, Schrader M, Höcht S, Wiegel T, Miller K, Schostak M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology and Pediatric Urology, Magdeburg University Medical 
Center, Leipziger Strasse 44, Magdeburg, D-39120, Germany. 
daniel.baumunk@med.ovgu.de

BACKGROUND: Patients with prostate cancer face the difficult decision between a 
wide range of therapeutic options. These men require elaborate information about 
their individual risk profile and the therapeutic strategies´ risks and benefits 
to choose the best possible option. In order to detect time trends and quality 
improvements between an early patient population (2003/2004) and a later 
reference group (2007/2008) data was analysed with regards to epidemiologic 
parameters, differences in diagnostics and the type and ranking of the 
recommended therapies taking into account changes to Gleason Grading System and 
implementation of new therapeutic strategies, particularly Active surveillance, 
in 2005.
METHODS: Data from all 496 consecutive patients who received consultation in 
2003/2004 (n = 280) and 2007/2008 (n = 216) was retrospectively evaluated. 
Categorical variables were compared using the Chi-square test. Dependent 
variables were analysed using the unpaired Students´ t-test and the Mann-Whitney 
U-test.
RESULTS: The cohorts were comparable concerning clinical stage, initial PSA, 
prostate volume, comorbidities and organ confined disease. Patients in Cohort I 
were younger (66.44 vs. 69.31y; p < .001) and had a longer life expectancy 
(17.22 vs. 14.75y; p < .001). 50.9%, 28.2% and 20.9% in Cohort I and 37.2%, 
39.6% and 23.2% in Cohort II showed low-, intermediate- and high-risk disease 
(D´Amico) with a trend towards an increased risk profile in Cohort II 
(p = .066). The risk-adapted therapy recommended as first option was radical 
prostatectomy for 91.5% in Cohort I and 69.7% in Cohort II, radiation therapy 
for 83.7% in Cohort I and 50.7% in Cohort II, and other therapies 
(brachytherapy, Active surveillance, Watchful waiting, high-intensity focused 
ultrasound) for 6.5% in Cohort I and 6.9% in Cohort II (p < .001). Radiation 
therapy was predominant in both cohorts as second treatment option (p < .001). 
Time trends showing quality improvement involved an increase in biopsy cores 
(9.95 ± 2.38 vs. 8.43 ± 2.29; p < .001) and an increased recommendation for 
bilateral nerve sparing (p < .001).
CONCLUSION: In the earlier years, younger patients with a more favourable risk 
profile presented for interdisciplinary consultation. A unilateral 
recommendation for radical prostatectomy and radiation therapy was predominant. 
In the later years, the patient population was considerably older. However, this 
group may have benefitted from optimised diagnostic possibilities and a wider 
range of treatment options.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6947-13-83
PMCID: PMC3751298
PMID: 23915212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Am J Transplant. 2013 Sep;13(9):2384-94. doi: 10.1111/ajt.12384. Epub 2013
Aug  5.

Twenty-year longitudinal follow-up after orthotopic liver transplantation: a 
single-center experience of 313 consecutive cases.

Schoening WN(1), Buescher N, Rademacher S, Andreou A, Kuehn S, Neuhaus R, 
Guckelberger O, Puhl G, Seehofer D, Neuhaus P.

Author information:
(1)Transplant Surgery, Charité, CVK, Berlin, Germany.

With excellent short-term survival in liver transplantation (LT), we now focus 
on long-term outcome and report the first European single-center 20-year 
survival data. Three hundred thirty-seven LT were performed in 313 patients 
(09/88-12/92). Impact on long-term outcome was studied and a comparison to life 
expectancy of matched normal population was performed. A detailed analysis of 
20-years follow-up concerning overweight (HBMI), hypertension (HTN), diabetes 
(HGL), hyperlipidemia (HLIP) and moderately or severely impaired renal function 
(MIRF, SIRF) is presented. Patient and graft survival at 1, 10, 20 years were 
88.4%, 72.7%, 52.5% and 83.7%, 64.7% and 46.6%, respectively. Excluding 1-year 
mortality, survival in the elderly LT recipients was similar to normal 
population. Primary indication (p < 0.001), age (p < 0.001), gender (p = 0.017), 
impaired renal function at 6 months (p < 0.001) and retransplantation (p = 
0.034) had significant impact on patient survival. Recurrent disease (21.3%), 
infection (20.6%) and de novo malignancy (19.9%) were the most common causes of 
death. Prevalence of HTN (57.3-85.2%, p < 0.001), MIRF (41.8-55.2%, p = 0.01) 
and HBMI (33.2-45%, p = 0.014) increased throughout follow-up, while prevalence 
of HLIP (78.0-47.6%, p < 0.001) declined. LT has conquered many barriers to 
achieve these outstanding long-term results. However, much work is needed to 
combat recurrent disease and side effects of immunosuppression (IS).

© Copyright 2013 The American Society of Transplantation and the American 
Society of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.12384
PMID: 23915357 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. BMC Public Health. 2013 Aug 2;13:713. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-713.

Chronic disease mortality in rural and urban residents in Hubei Province, China, 
2008-2010.

Cheng L(1), Tan L, Zhang L, Wei S, Liu L, Long L, Zhang J, Wu Y, Zhang Q, Nie S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Tongji 
Medical College of Huazhong University of Science and Technology, 13 Hangkong 
Road, Qiaokou District, Wuhan, Hubei Province 430030, PR China.

BACKGROUND: Chronic non-communicable diseases have become the major cause of 
death in China. This study describes and compares chronic disease mortality 
between urban and rural residents in Hubei Province, central China.
METHODS: Death records of all individuals aged 15 years and over who died from 
2008 through 2010 in Hubei were obtained from the Disease Surveillance Points 
system maintained by the Hubei Province Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention. Average annual mortality, standardized death rates, years of 
potential life lost (YLL), average years of potential life lost (AYLL) and rates 
of life lost were calculated for urban and rural residents. Standardized rate 
ratios (SRR) were calculated to compare the death rates between urban and rural 
areas.
RESULTS: A total of 86.2% of deaths were attributed to chronic non-communicable 
diseases in Hubei. Cerebrovascular diseases, ischemic heart disease and 
neoplasms were the main leading causes in both urban and rural areas, and the 
mortality rates were higher among rural residents. Lung cancer was the principal 
cause of mortality from cancer among urban and rural residents, and stomach 
cancer and liver cancer were more common in rural than urban areas. Breast 
cancer mortality among women in rural areas was lower than in urban areas 
(SRR=0.73, 95% CI=0.63-0.85). The standardized mortality for chronic lower 
respiratory disease among men in rural areas was higher than in urban areas 
(SRR=4.05, 95% CI=3.82-4.29). Among men, total AYLL from liver cancer and other 
diseases of liver were remarkably higher than other causes in urban and rural 
areas. Among women the highest AYLL were due to breast cancer in both urban and 
rural areas.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronic diseases were the major cause of death in Hubei Province. 
While circulatory system diseases were the leading causes in both urban and 
rural areas, our study highlights that attention should also be paid to breast 
cancer among women and chronic lower respiratory disease among rural residents. 
It is important that governments focus on this public health issue and develop 
preventive strategies to reduce morbidity and premature mortality from chronic 
non-communicable diseases.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-713
PMCID: PMC3751110
PMID: 23915378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Ann Thorac Surg. 2013 Oct;96(4):1367-1373. doi: 
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2013.04.055. Epub 2013 Jul 31.

Gender differences in long-term survival of Medicare beneficiaries undergoing 
mitral valve operations.

Vassileva CM(1), McNeely C(2), Mishkel G(3), Boley T(2), Markwell S(2), 
Hazelrigg S(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Southern Illinois 
University School of Medicine, Springfield, Illinois. Electronic address: 
cvassileva@siumed.edu.
(2)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Southern Illinois 
University School of Medicine, Springfield, Illinois.
(3)Prairie Cardiovascular Consultants, Ltd, Springfield, Illinois.

BACKGROUND: Gender disparities in outcomes have been documented in cardiac 
surgery. Gender differences in long-term survival after mitral valve operations, 
especially in the elderly, are less well studied.
METHODS: Using Centers for Medicare and Medicaid Services data, we identified 
183,792 Medicare beneficiaries aged 65 years and older who underwent mitral 
valve repair or replacement from 2000 through 2009. The final study population 
included 47,602 Medicare fee-for-service beneficiaries undergoing isolated 
mitral valve operations. The outcomes studied were gender-specific operative 
mortality and long-term survival.
RESULTS: Women were less likely to receive mitral valve repair (31.9% vs 44.0%, 
p < 0.0001). The hospital mortality rate was 7.7% for women vs 6.1% for men (p < 
0.0001), reflective of a worse preoperative profile. Women undergoing repair had 
worse long-term survival than men (p = 0.0020) but survival was similar after 
risk adjustment (hazard ratio, 0.97; 95% confidence interval, 0.92 to 1.02, p = 
0.2106). Compared with the United States population matched for age and sex, 
mitral repair restored life expectancy for men but not for women. Unadjusted and 
adjusted long-term survival was similar for men and women undergoing mitral 
valve replacement (p = 0.3653; hazard ratio, 0.99; 95% confidence interval, 0.96 
to 1.02; p = 0.4847).
CONCLUSIONS: In this large comparative study of gender differences in mitral 
valve operations, elderly women had higher operative mortality and lower 
long-term survival. These differences appeared to be driven largely because 
women present for mitral valve operations later in the disease process. Mitral 
repair appeared to restore normal life expectancy for men but not for women. 
Future studies should examine the factors that influence physician referral to 
mitral valve operations for men and women.

Copyright © 2013 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2013.04.055
PMID: 23915585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Hematol Oncol Clin North Am. 2013 Aug;27(4):785-804, ix. doi: 
10.1016/j.hoc.2013.05.008. Epub 2013 Jun 21.

Challenges in the treatment of older breast cancer patients.

Williams GR(1), Jones E, Muss HB.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina, 170 Manning Drive, Campus Box 7305, Chapel 
Hill, NC 27599-7550, USA.

As the population ages, oncologists will be faced with managing an exploding 
number of older patients with breast cancer. The primary challenge of caring for 
older cancer patients is providing treatment options that maximize long-term 
survival while accounting for comorbidities, life expectancy, and effects of 
treatment. There is a paucity of data from trials on the risks and benefits of 
effective treatments in elderly breast cancer patients. This article discusses 
how to evaluate older breast cancer patients and provides guidelines for optimal 
therapies in the adjuvant and metastatic treatment settings.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hoc.2013.05.008
PMID: 23915745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 1988 May;3(2):106-13. doi: 
10.1016/0268-0033(88)90053-8.

Reference values for 'normal' regional lumbar sagittal mobility.

Burton AK(1), Tillotson KM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Huddersfield Polytechnic, UK.

From a sample of 958 individuals, a group with no anamnestic recall of notable 
low back trouble (n=510) was selected to provide reference values for lumbar 
sagittal mobility. The measurement technique employed a flexicurve to give 
angular measures for maximal sagittal mobility in upper (T12-L4) and lower 
(L4-S2) regions. The results are presented in the form of reference ranges and 
modal values, stratified by age and sex. A wide variation in the 'normal' range 
of mobility at all ages is confirmed. Males had higher values for flexion, 
whilst females showed higher values for extension and for mobility in the lower 
region. Sagittal mobility declined with age at different rates in males and 
females for both flexion/extension and upper/lower measures. Generally speaking, 
mobility was reduced by some 50% in old age compared with childhood, the 
reduction being most marked for measures of flexion and upper lumbar mobility.

Copyright © 1988. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/0268-0033(88)90053-8
PMID: 23915842


704. Biomaterials. 2013 Nov;34(33):8013-7. doi:
10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.07.044.  Epub 2013 Jul 31.

Infection resistance of degradable versus non-degradable biomaterials: an 
assessment of the potential mechanisms.

Daghighi S(1), Sjollema J, van der Mei HC, Busscher HJ, Rochford ET.

Author information:
(1)University of Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen, Department of 
Biomedical Engineering, Antonius Deusinglaan 1, 9713 AV Groningen, The 
Netherlands.

Extended life expectancy and medical development has led to an increased 
reliance on biomaterial implants and devices to support or restore human anatomy 
and function. However, the presence of an implanted biomaterial results in an 
increased susceptibility to infection. Due to the severity of the potential 
outcomes of biomaterial-associated infection, different strategies have been 
employed to reduce the infection risk. Interestingly, degradable biological 
materials demonstrate increased resistance to bacterial infection compared to 
non-degradable synthetic biomaterials. Current knowledge about the specific 
mechanisms of how degradable biological materials are afforded increased 
resistance to infection is limited. Therefore, in this paper a number of 
hypotheses to explain the decreased infection risk associated with the use of 
degradable versus non-degradable biomaterials are evaluated and discussed with 
reference to the present state of knowledge.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.07.044
PMID: 23915949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Clin Biomech (Bristol, Avon). 1994 Jan;9(1):5-14. doi: 
10.1016/0268-0033(94)90052-3.

The clinical biomechanics award paper 1993 Posture and the compressive strength 
of the lumbar spine.

Adams MA(1), McNally DS, Chinn H, Dolan P.

Author information:
(1)Comparative Orthopaedic Research Unit, Department of Anatomy, University of 
Bristol, UK.

The effect of posture on spinal compressive strength was examined in a series of 
three experiments on cadaveric material. Lumbar 'motion segments', consisting of 
two vertebrae and the intervening disc and ligaments, were compressed while 
positioned in various angles of flexion and extension. In the first experiment 
load sharing between the disc, the apophyseal joint surfaces, and the 
intervertebral ligaments was inferred from measurements of intradiscal pressure 
(IDP). Results showed that extension caused the apophyseal joints to become 
load-bearing, and damage could occur at compressive loads as low as 500 N. 
Flexion angles greater than about 75% of the full range of flexion (as defined 
by the posterior ligaments) generated high tensile forces in these ligaments, 
and caused substantial increases in IDP. The optimum range for resisting 
compression therefore appeared to be 0-75% flexion. The second experiment 
compared the distribution of compressive stress within the disc at the endpoints 
of this range, and showed that at 0% flexion high stress concentrations occur in 
the posterior annulus of many discs, whereas an even distribution of stress was 
usually found at 75% flexion. However, the third experiment showed that there 
was no significant difference in the compressive strength of motion segments 
positioned in 0% and 75% flexion. A comparison of the range of flexion/ 
extension movements in vivo and in vitro led us to conclude that in life a 
position of moderate flexion is to be preferred when the lumbar spine is 
subjected to high compressive forces.

Copyright © 1994. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/0268-0033(94)90052-3
PMID: 23916072


706. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2013 Oct;22(4):336-45. doi:
10.1017/S0963180113000182.  Epub 2013 Aug 6.

Precision and the rules of prioritization.

McMillan J, Hope T, Wilkinson D.

DOI: 10.1017/S0963180113000182
PMID: 23916250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

