of hand opening stands importantly in patient's daily life, it is difficult to 
distinguish the voluntary finger extension from thumb adduction and finger 
flexion using stroke patients' electroencephalography (EMG) on single muscle 
activity. We propose to implement corticomuscular coherence analysis on 
electroencephalography (EEG) and EMG signals on Extensor Digitorum to extract 
their intention involved in hand opening. EEG and EMG signals of 8 subjects are 
simultaneously collected when executing 4 hand movement tasks (finger extension, 
thumb adduction, finger flexion, and rest). We explore the spatial and temporal 
distribution of the coherence and observe statistically significant 
corticomuscular coherence appearing at left motor cortical area and different 
patterns within beta frequency range for 4 movement tasks. Linear discriminate 
analysis is applied on the coherence pattern to distinguish finger extension 
from thumb adduction, finger flexion, and rest. The classification results are 
greater than those by EEG only. The results indicate the possibility to detect 
voluntary hand opening based on coherence analysis between single muscle EMG 
signal and single EEG channel located in motor cortical area, which potentially 
helps active hand rehabilitation for stroke patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/908591
PMCID: PMC3652035
PMID: 23690885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Pol J Vet Sci. 2013;16(1):141-51. doi: 10.2478/pjvs-2013-0022.

The application of circulating tumor cells detecting methods in veterinary 
oncology.

Chmielewska M(1), Łosiewicz K, Socha P, Mecik-Kronenberg T, Wasowicz K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Animal Anatomy, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, University of 
Warmia and Mazury, Oczapowskiego 13 Bldg. 105J, 10-719 Olsztyn, Poland. 
malgorzata.chmielewska@uwm.edu.pl

Cancers are one of the most common diseases affecting dogs. Many of them develop 
spontaneously and their biology and histopathology shows many similarities to 
human cancers. What more, it is proved that there are much more analogies in 
molecular mechanisms of cancer development between these two species. Human 
oncology is seeking more and more efficient methods for an early disease 
detection which results directly in the extended life expectancy of patients 
affected. One of the most modern trends in the diagnosis of cancer is to detect 
circulating tumor cells (CTC) in the blood of patients. It is known that these 
cells are responsible for the formation of metastases in distant organs what 
results in the patient death. Moreover, it's confirmed that CTC are already 
present in patients' bloodstream in the early stages of tumor development. There 
is no doubt that mechanism of metastasis development in dogs is identical and 
thus the CTC are also present in their bloodstream. Despite the intense 
researches there is still no optimal method of isolating cancer cells from the 
blood where they occur extremely rarely. The purpose of this study is to analyze 
the implications of the detection methods of tumor cells in the blood in 
veterinary oncology.

DOI: 10.2478/pjvs-2013-0022
PMID: 23691590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Aging Cell. 2013 Oct;12(5):752-62. doi: 10.1111/acel.12100. Epub 2013 Jun 25.

Cryptochrome restores dampened circadian rhythms and promotes healthspan in 
aging Drosophila.

Rakshit K(1), Giebultowicz JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Zoology, Center for Healthy Aging Research, Oregon State 
University, 3029 Cordley Hall, Corvallis, OR, 97331, USA.

Circadian clocks generate daily rhythms in molecular, cellular, and 
physiological functions providing temporal dimension to organismal homeostasis. 
Recent evidence suggests two-way relationship between circadian clocks and 
aging. While disruption of the circadian clock leads to premature aging in 
animals, there is also age-related dampening of output rhythms such as 
sleep/wake cycles and hormonal fluctuations. Decay in the oscillations of 
several clock genes was recently reported in aged fruit flies, but mechanisms 
underlying these age-related changes are not understood. We report that the 
circadian light-sensitive protein CRYPTOCHROME (CRY) is significantly reduced at 
both mRNA and protein levels in heads of old Drosophila melanogaster. 
Restoration of CRY using the binary GAL4/UAS system in old flies significantly 
enhanced the mRNA oscillatory amplitude of several genes involved in the clock 
mechanism. Flies with CRY overexpressed in all clock cells maintained strong 
rest/activity rhythms in constant darkness late in life when rhythms were 
disrupted in most control flies. We also observed a remarkable extension of 
healthspan in flies with elevated CRY. Conversely, CRY-deficient mutants showed 
accelerated functional decline and accumulated greater oxidative damage. 
Interestingly, overexpression of CRY in central clock neurons alone was not 
sufficient to restore rest/activity rhythms or extend healthspan. Together, 
these data suggest novel anti-aging functions of CRY and indicate that 
peripheral clocks play an active role in delaying behavioral and physiological 
aging.

© 2013 The Anatomical Society and John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12100
PMCID: PMC3772985
PMID: 23692507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. BMJ. 2013 May 21;346:f2539. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f2539.

The gap in life expectancy from preventable physical illness in psychiatric 
patients in Western Australia: retrospective analysis of population based 
registers.

Lawrence D(1), Hancock KJ, Kisely S.

Author information:
(1)Telethon Institute for Child Health Research, Centre for Child Health 
Research, The University of Western Australia, PO Box 855 West Perth WA 6872 
Australia. dlawrence@ichr.uwa.edu.au

Comment in
    BMJ. 2013;346:f2969.

OBJECTIVE: To examine the mortality experience of psychiatric patients in 
Western Australia compared with the general population.
DESIGN: Population based study.
SETTING: Western Australia, 1985-2005.
PARTICIPANTS: Psychiatric patients (292,585) registered with mental health 
services in Western Australia.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Trends in life expectancy for psychiatric patients 
compared with the Western Australian population and causes of excess mortality, 
including physical health conditions and unnatural causes of death.
RESULTS: When using active prevalence of disorder (contact with services in 
previous five years), the life expectancy gap increased from 13.5 to 15.9 years 
for males and from 10.4 to 12.0 years for females between 1985 and 2005. 
Additionally, 77.7% of excess deaths were attributed to physical health 
conditions, including cardiovascular disease (29.9%) and cancer (13.5%). Suicide 
was the cause of 13.9% of excess deaths.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite knowledge about excess mortality in people with mental 
illness, the gap in their life expectancy compared with the general population 
has widened since 1985. With most excess deaths being due to physical health 
conditions, public efforts should be directed towards improving physical health 
to reduce mortality in people with mental illness, in addition to ongoing 
efforts to prevent suicide.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f2539
PMCID: PMC3660620
PMID: 23694688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available 
on request from the corresponding author) and declare: SK had financial support 
from the Griffith Institute for Health and Medical Research for the submitted 
work; no financial relationships with any organisations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work in the previous three years; no other 
relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted 
work.


93. Urologe A. 2013 Jun;52(6):832-7. doi: 10.1007/s00120-013-3152-2.

[Management of prostate cancer in the elderly].

[Article in German]

Hatiboglu G(1), Hadaschik B, Teber D, Duensing S, Hohenfellner M, Pahernik S.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie und Kinderurologie, Urologische Universitätsklinik 
Heidelberg, Im Neuenheimer Feld 110, 69120 Heidelberg, Deutschland. 
gencay.hatiboglu@med.uni-heidelberg.de

The management of prostate cancer in elderly patients is a topic of 
controversial discussion. The current guidelines recommend diagnosis and 
treatment of prostate cancer only in patients with a life expectancy of more 
than 10 years. Especially in elderly patients pre-existing comorbidities play a 
crucial role in life expectancy. In clinical practice mostly patient age alone 
is considered for the treatment decision; however, a guideline-based therapy of 
prostate cancer should also be offered to elderly patients. The treatment 
decision should be based on patient general health status and the oncological 
risk. The patient individual health status can be determined on the basis of 
comorbidities present and patient nutritional and performance status. For an 
optimal therapy regime the oncological risk has to be considered in treatment 
decisions. The aim of this article is to give an overview of risk stratification 
and treatment options for localized and metastatic prostate cancer in elderly 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-013-3152-2
PMID: 23695158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2014 Feb;69(2):131-41. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glt069. Epub 2013 May 21.

A dwarf mouse model with decreased GH/IGF-1 activity that does not experience 
life-span extension: potential impact of increased adiposity, leptin, and 
insulin with advancing age.

Berryman DE(1), Lubbers ER, Magon V, List EO, Kopchick JJ.

Author information:
(1)RD, LD, E338 Grover Center, School of Applied Health Sciences and Wellness, 
Ohio University, Athens, OH 45701. berrymad@ohio.edu.

Reduced growth hormone (GH) action is associated with extended longevity in many 
vertebrate species. GH receptor (GHR) null (GHR(-)(/-)) mice, which have a 
disruption in the GHR gene, are a well-studied example of mice that are insulin 
sensitive and long lived yet obese. However, unlike other mouse lines with 
reduced GH action, GH receptor antagonist (GHA) transgenic mice have reduced GH 
action yet exhibit a normal, not extended, life span. Understanding why GHA mice 
do not have extended life span though they share many physiological attributes 
with GHR(-)(/-) mice will help provide clues about how GH influences aging. For 
this study, we examined age- and sex-related changes in body composition, 
glucose homeostasis, circulating adipokines, and tissue weights in GHA mice and 
littermate controls. Compared with previous studies with GHR(-)(/-) mice, GHA 
mice had more significant increases in fat mass with advancing age. The 
increased obesity resulted in significant adipokine changes. Euglycemia was 
maintained in GHA mice; however, hyperinsulinemia developed in older male GHA 
mice. Overall, GHA mice experience a more substantial, generalized obesity 
accompanied by altered adipokine levels and glucose homeostasis than GHR(-)(/-) 
mice, which becomes more exaggerated with advancing age and which likely 
contributes to the lack of life-span extension in these mice.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glt069
PMCID: PMC4038240
PMID: 23695394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2013 Oct;84(10):1092-9. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2012-303816. Epub 2013 May 21.

A pragmatic parallel arm multi-centre randomised controlled trial to assess the 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a group-based fatigue management 
programme (FACETS) for people with multiple sclerosis.

Thomas S(1), Thomas PW, Kersten P, Jones R, Green C, Nock A, Slingsby V, Smith 
AD, Baker R, Galvin KT, Hillier C.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Research Unit, School of Health and Social Care, Bournemouth 
University, Bournemouth, Dorset, UK. saraht@bournemouth.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Fatigue is a common and troubling symptom for people with multiple 
sclerosis (MS).
AIM: To evaluate the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a six-session 
group-based programme for managing MS-fatigue (Fatigue: Applying Cognitive 
behavioural and Energy effectiveness Techniques to lifeStyle (FACETS)).
METHODS: Three-centre parallel arm randomised controlled trial with economic 
evaluation. Patients with MS and significant fatigue were randomised to FACETS 
plus current local practice (FACETS) or current local practice alone (CLP), 
using concealed computer-generated randomisation. Participant blinding was not 
possible. Primary outcomes were fatigue severity (Fatigue Assessment 
Instrument), self-efficacy (Multiple Sclerosis-Fatigue Self-Efficacy) and 
disease-specific quality of life (Multiple Sclerosis Impact Scale (MSIS-29)) at 
1 and 4 months postintervention (follow-up 1 and 2). Quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs) were calculated (EuroQoL 5-Dimensions questionnaire and the Short-form 
6-Dimensions questionnaire).
RESULTS: Between May 2008 and November 2009, 164 patients were randomised; 
primary outcome data were available for 146 (89%). Statistically significant 
differences favour the intervention group on fatigue self-efficacy at follow-up 
1 (mean difference (MD) 9, 95% CI (4 to 14), standardised effect size (SES) 
0.54, p=0.001) and follow-up 2 (MD 6, 95% CI (0 to 12), SES 0.36, p=0.05) and 
fatigue severity at follow-up 2 (MD -0.36, 95% CI (-0.63 to -0.08), SES -0.35, 
p=0.01) but no differences for MSIS-29 or QALYs. No adverse events reported. 
Estimated cost per person for FACETS is £453; findings suggest an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of £2157 per additional person with a clinically 
significant improvement in fatigue.
CONCLUSIONS: FACETS is effective in reducing fatigue severity and increasing 
fatigue self-efficacy. However, it is difficult to assess the additional cost in 
terms of cost-effectiveness (ie, cost per QALY) as improvements in fatigue are 
not reflected in the QALY outcomes, with no significant differences between 
FACETS and CLP. The strengths of this trial are its pragmatic nature and high 
external validity.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN76517470.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2012-303816
PMCID: PMC3786656
PMID: 23695501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Uisahak. 2013 Apr;22(1):1-40. doi: 10.13081/kjmh.2013.22.1.

A Single Medicine for a Disease: Simple Formula of Treasured Mirror of Eastern 
Medicine, It's Compilation and Succession.

Oh C(1).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Medical Classics & History, College of Korean Medicine, Semyung 
University, Chunguk, KOREA.

In this study, I am planning to analyze the contents of Simple formula in 
Treasured Mirror of Eastern Medicine (TM), and then find out the historical 
implication of medical science. Simple formula is a prescription that is 
consisted of a single or three to four kinds of medicines, and this does not 
follow typical control principles such as 'sovereign, minister, assistant and 
courier'. While simple formulas are often built after major formulas, TM placed 
simple formulas to an end of each classified item. It is difficult to find a 
similar compilation style as that of Simple formula among similar volumes of 
medical books during the same period of TM. Thus, it can be assumed that TM 
included simple formulas for special purposes or reasons which are deemed as an 
important factor in stipulating the features of TM. The tradition of Simple 
formula, using medicinal herbs which can be easily acquired and trying to make 
an effect with a small number of herbs, had existed before Goryeo Dynasty. 
Introduced by Emergency Prescriptions from the Countryside and Samhwaja's 
Formulary from the Countryside, the tradition of Simple formula is succeeded by 
Compendium of Prescriptions from the Countryside, and after a while, it is 
synthetically arranged and recognized through Simple formula of TM. By analyzing 
simple formulas of TM, I could find out the followings. First, in simple 
formulas of TM, in which the components are the number of medicinal herbs, the 
name of prescription, and their application, should be understood as a simply 
consisted prescription rather than single medicine formulas. Second, simple 
formulas of TM are 2,001 in total, and are organized in most items. Third, 
although simple formulas cite a number of formulary, it shows a high degree of 
dependence to Classified Emergency Materia Medica. This shows that simple 
formulas that are structured to use medicine according to symptoms based on the 
effect of each medicinal herb, without understanding or dialectic process of 
syndrome differentiation. Fourth, while the part of medicinal herbs, Decoction 
section, focuses on listing the information of each medicinal herb, simple 
formulas introduce effect, dose, volume and even a mix with other medicinal 
herbs and an application of them. Therefore, a simple formula evaluates single 
medicinal herb as a sort of prescription. Fifth, more than half of 33 kinds of 
medicinal herbs, which are used more than 11 times in simple formulas of TM, are 
easy to get around the village, and their Korean names of Materia Medica from 
the Countryside are possible to be seen in Decoction section. However, the fact 
that Materia Medica from China such as Coptics chinensis and Realgar is included 
in simple formulas means that they are not limited to Materia Medica from the 
Countryside, and some of Materia Medica from China were not difficult to be 
procured in the time of publication of TM. Specific purpose of publishing simple 
formulas is not written separately. However, through the king's command of King 
Seonjo (1552-1608) in introduction, the active containing of folk prescriptions, 
and the emphasis of medicinal herb's volume using simple formulas, it is assumed 
that the Chosun government at that time tried to provide friendly and practical 
medical information with simple formulas, to collect and formulate private 
medical experiences in order to expand their extension of medical information, 
and to maximize the effect of treatment. The compilation system like TM was 
highly regarded but was also the target of criticism. In particular, King 
Jeongjo (1752-1800) criticized the complicatedness of TM and deleted information 
related to simple formulas through government compilation medical texts such as 
Explanation of Subtleties for the People's Longevity, New Edition on Universal 
Relife. However, simple formulas which were not composed of many medicinal herbs 
could be useful way for treating people who did not have professional medical 
knowledge and did not have a large range of herbs. In actuality, Secret Works of 
Universal Benefit, the representative compilation of civil medicinal text which 
was published after TM included information related to simple formulas, and in 
Records for rural life of Chosun gentlemen, the framework of simple formulas of 
TM was maintained and is filled with a vast amount of information. Furthermore, 
cases of utilizing simple formulas are included in the U-Jam's miscellaneous 
writings which is a clinical record. In Simple formulas of TM, private medical 
experiences at the time of Chosun are written first, then recognized by the 
experts, and finally returned to the public. Although the purpose and the target 
of these simple formulas publication are not clearly known, it is easy found, 
does not require any advanced medical knowledge, and above all, the people must 
have welcomed to the supply of economic simple formulas. Therefore, simple 
formulas show an aspect of TM, as a medical book for public.

DOI: 10.13081/kjmh.2013.22.1
PMID: 23695748


97. Palliat Med. 2014 Jan;28(1):49-58. doi: 10.1177/0269216313489367. Epub 2013
May  21.

How many people need palliative care? A study developing and comparing methods 
for population-based estimates.

Murtagh FE(1), Bausewein C, Verne J, Groeneveld EI, Kaloki YE, Higginson IJ.

Author information:
(1)1King's College London, Cicely Saunders Institute, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Understanding the need for palliative care is essential in planning 
services.
AIM: To refine existing methods of estimating population-based need for 
palliative care and to compare these methods to better inform their use.
DESIGN: (1) Refinement of existing population-based methods, based on the views 
of an expert panel, and (2) application/comparison of existing and refined 
approaches in an example dataset. Existing methods vary in approach and in data 
sources. (a) Higginson used cause of death/symptom prevalence, and using pain 
prevalence, estimates that 60.28% (95% confidence interval = 60.20%-60.36%) of 
all deaths need palliative care, (b) Rosenwax used the International Statistical 
Classification of Diseases and Related Health Problems-10th Revision (ICD-10) 
causes of death/hospital-use data, and estimates that 37.01% (95% confidence 
interval = 36.94%-37.07%) to 96.61% (95% confidence interval = 96.58%-96.64%) of 
deaths need palliative care, and (c) Gómez-Batiste used percentage of deaths 
plus chronic disease data, and estimates that 75% of deaths need palliative 
care.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: All deaths in England, January 2006-December 2008, using 
linked mortality and hospital episode data.
RESULTS: Expert panel review identified changing practice (e.g. extension of 
palliative care to more non-cancer conditions), changing patterns of 
hospital/home care and multiple, rather than single, causes of death as 
important. We therefore refined methods (using updated ICD-10 causes of death, 
underlying/contributory causes, and hospital use) to estimate a minimum of 
63.03% (95% confidence interval = 62.95%-63.11%) of all deaths needing 
palliative care, with lower and upper mid-range estimates between 69.10% (95% 
confidence interval = 69.02%-69.17%) and 81.87% (95% confidence interval = 
81.81%-81.93%).
CONCLUSIONS: Death registration data using both underlying and contributory 
causes can give reliable estimates of the population-based need for palliative 
care, without needing symptom or hospital activity data. In high-income 
countries, 69%-82% of those who die need palliative care.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216313489367
PMID: 23695827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Heart. 2013 Jul;99(13):914-20. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2013-303722. Epub 2013
May  21.

The cost-effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve implantation versus 
surgical aortic valve replacement in patients with severe aortic stenosis at 
high operative risk.

Fairbairn TA(1), Meads DM, Hulme C, Mather AN, Plein S, Blackman DJ, Greenwood 
JP.

Author information:
(1)Multidisciplinary Cardiovascular Research Centre, Leeds Institute of 
Genetics, Health and Therapeutics, University of Leeds, Leeds LS1 3EX, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation (TAVI) compared with surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) in a 
high-risk aortic stenosis (AS) population.
DESIGN: A cost-utility analysis employing the National Institute of Clinical 
Excellence (NICE) reference case design for technology appraisals.
SETTING: The perspective of the UK National Health Service.
PATIENTS: Utility data from a UK high-risk AS population. TAVI and SAVR 
effectiveness was taken from the PARTNER A randomised controlled trial.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs modelled over a 10 year horizon using a Markov 
model. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios and cost-effectiveness 
acceptability curve were calculated with reference to the NICE willingness to 
pay per quality adjusted life year (QALY) gain threshold. Deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses performed.
RESULTS: Despite greater procedural costs (£16 500 vs £9,256), TAVI was 
cost-effective compared with SAVR over the 10 year model horizon (costs £52 593 
vs £53 943 and QALYs 2.81 vs 2.75), indicating that TAVI dominated SAVR. This 
appeared to be due to greater postsurgical costs, related to the length and cost 
of hospital stay. The results appeared robust to a number of deterministic 
sensitivity and probabilistic analyses. The cost-effectiveness acceptability 
curve indicated that at the NICE £20 000 willingness to pay threshold per QALY 
gained, TAVI had a 64.6% likelihood of being cost-effective, compared with 35.4% 
for SAVR.
CONCLUSIONS: TAVI is likely to be a cost-effective treatment for high-risk 
patients with AS compared with the reference standard of SAVR. However, 
uncertainty surrounding the long-term outcomes for TAVI patients remains; this 
could have a substantive impact on estimates of cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2013-303722
PMID: 23696198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Zentralbl Chir. 2015 Jun;140(3):304-11. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1328214. Epub
2013  May 21.

[Is There an Age Limit for Surgical Interventions?].

[Article in German]

Mennigen R(1), Senninger N(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik und Poliklinik für Allgemein- und Viszeralchirurgie, 
Universitätsklinikum Münster, Münster, Deutschland.

The demographic development leads to an increase of elderly patients (> 70 
years) who require surgical interventions. Nowadays, even complex surgical 
interventions are performed with good results in very old patients. In view of 
an increasing life expectancy, radical oncological surgery makes sense even in 
high age. High age itself is not a risk factor for perioperative morbidity and 
mortality, and therefore there is no age limit for surgical interventions. 
However, comorbidities are more frequent in old patients, and these can 
massively increase the risk of surgery. Thus, for the individual patient, pros 
and cons of surgical interventions have to be weighed up. A specialised 
geriatric assessment and an optimal perioperative management of the old patient 
can improve the results of surgical therapy.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1328214
PMID: 23696205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. J Tissue Eng Regen Med. 2016 May;10(5):418-27. doi: 10.1002/term.1752. Epub
2013  May 20.

Effect of basic fibroblast growth factor released from chitosan-fucoidan 
nanoparticles on neurite extension.

Huang YC(1), Yang YT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science, College of Life Science, National Taiwan Ocean 
University, Keelung, Taiwan.

Exogenous growth factors are an integral part of an effective nerve 
tissue-engineering strategy. Basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) has a marked 
positive effect on angiogenesis and neuronal cell survival. However, bFGF is 
limited by its short half-life and easy degradation by enzymes. Therefore, in 
this study novel biodegradable chitosan-fucoidan nanoparticles (CS-F NPs) were 
designed to carry bFGFs and maintain their activities. The experimental results 
indicated that chitosan and fucoidan form stable nanoparticles approximately 
200 nm in size via electrostatic interactions. Additionally, the effectiveness 
of nanoparticles is related to their chitosan:fucoidan weight ratio. The CS-F 
NPs control the release of bFGFs and protect bFGF from deactivation by heat and 
enzymes. In vitro cell studies demonstrate that CS-F NPs have no cytotoxicity to 
PC12 cells, as the concentration of NPs is 125 ng/ml. Moreover, the CS-F NPs 
significantly decrease the amount of bFGF needed for neurite extension. The 
cumulative release of bFGF from CS-F NPs at 24 h is 0.168 ng/ml, markedly lower 
than that in solution (4.2 ng/ml). Importantly, CS-F NPs are potential carriers 
for delivering bFGFs for nerve tissue engineering. Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & 
Sons, Ltd.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/term.1752
PMID: 23696519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Neuropsychiatr Dis Treat. 2013;9:687-96. doi: 10.2147/NDT.S35440. Epub 2013
May  16.

Magnetic resonance spectroscopy in Alzheimer's disease.

Graff-Radford J(1), Kantarci K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN, USA.

Aging is the primary risk factor for dementia. With increasing life expectancy 
and aging populations worldwide, dementia is becoming one of the significant 
public health problems of the century. The most common pathology underlying 
dementia in older adults is Alzheimer's disease. Proton magnetic resonance 
spectroscopy (MRS) may provide a window into the biochemical changes associated 
with the loss of neuronal integrity and other neurodegenerative pathology that 
involve the brain before the manifestations of cognitive impairment in patients 
who are at risk for Alzheimer's disease. This review focuses on proton MRS 
studies in normal aging, mild cognitive impairment, and dementia, and how proton 
MRS metabolite levels may be potential biomarkers for early diagnosis of 
dementia-related pathologic changes in the brain.

DOI: 10.2147/NDT.S35440
PMCID: PMC3658533
PMID: 23696705


102. Circulation. 2013 Jun 18;127(24):2414-23. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.112.000920. Epub 2013 May 22.

Economic evaluation of percutaneous left atrial appendage occlusion, dabigatran, 
and warfarin for stroke prevention in patients with nonvalvular atrial 
fibrillation.

Singh SM(1), Micieli A, Wijeysundera HC.

Author information:
(1)Schulich Heart Program, Toronto, ON, Canada. sheldon.singh@sunnybrook.ca

Comment in
    Circulation. 2013 Jun 18;127(24):2375-7.

BACKGROUND: Percutaneous left atrial appendage (LAA) occlusion and novel 
pharmacological therapies are now available to manage stroke risk in patients 
with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation; however, the cost-effectiveness of LAA 
occlusion compared with dabigatran and warfarin in patients with nonvalvular 
atrial fibrillation is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Cost-utility analysis using a patient-level Markov 
microsimulation decision analytic model with a lifetime horizon was undertaken 
to determine the lifetime costs, quality-adjusted life years, and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of LAA occlusion in relation to dabigatran and warfarin 
in patients with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation at risk for stroke without 
contraindications to oral anticoagulation. The analysis was performed from the 
perspective of the Ontario Ministry of Health and Long Term Care, the 
third-party payer for insured health services in Ontario, Canada. Effectiveness 
and utility data were obtained from the published literature. Cost data were 
obtained from the Ontario Drug Benefits Formulary and the Ontario Case Costing 
Initiative. Warfarin therapy had the lowest discounted quality-adjusted life 
years at 4.55, followed by dabigatran at 4.64 and LAA occlusion at 4.68. The 
average discounted lifetime cost was $21 429 for a patient taking warfarin, $25 
760 for a patient taking dabigatran, and $27 003 for LAA occlusion. Compared 
with warfarin, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for LAA occlusion was 
$41 565. Dabigatran was extendedly dominated.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous LAA occlusion represents a novel therapy for stroke 
reduction that is cost-effective compared with warfarin for patients at risk who 
have nonvalvular atrial fibrillation.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.112.000920
PMID: 23697908 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


103. Clin Ter. 2013;164(2):e77-82. doi: 10.7417/CT.2013.1535.

Myocardial infarction in young adults: risk factors, clinical characteristics 
and prognosis according to our experience.

Incalcaterra E(1), Caruso M, Lo Presti R, Caimi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal and Specialistic Medicine, University of Palermo, 
Palermo Italy. e.incalcaterra@email.it

OBJECTIVES: Myocardial infarction is a relatively unusual phenomenon in young 
subjects. The aim if this work is to characterize the risk profile and factors 
influencing outcomes of these patients since it makes possible to manage 
prevention interventions.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We examined cardiovascular risk factors, clinical 
presentation, angiographic picture and outcome of a group of young patients 
hospitalized for a myocardial infarction. We enrolled 121 young patients 
consecutively admitted to our hospital for a myocardial infarction and examined 
them not only at the initial stage, but also after 3 months and one year; 
finally a long-term telephonic follow up was performed, when possible.
RESULTS: We found some peculiarity making these patients quite different from 
the older ones who develop a myocardial infarction: cigarettes smoking, family 
history of ischemic heart disease and hyperlipidemia were the most frequent 
cardiovascular risk factors, while diabetes and hypertension were less 
represented; moreover coronary angiography showed more frequently a less 
extensive coronary atherosclerosis. Patients who developed a cardiovascular 
event at follow-up presented a significantly higher prevalence of hypertension 
and obesity and a significantly lower frequency of healthy coronary arteries and 
of previous revascularization.
CONCLUSIONS: Myocardial infarction in young adults presents several 
peculiarities, represented not only by the risk profile, but also by the 
angiographic picture and the prognosis. Considering the long life expectancy of 
the involved population, the essential role of preventive interventions should 
be strongly underlined.

DOI: 10.7417/CT.2013.1535
PMID: 23698218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. Nature. 2013 May 23;497(7450):428-30. doi: 10.1038/497428a.

The big fat truth.

Hughes V.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2013 Jan 2;309(1):71-82.

DOI: 10.1038/497428a
PMID: 23698426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Stat Methods Med Res. 2016 Aug;25(4):1452-70. doi: 10.1177/0962280213489234.
 Epub 2013 May 22.

Predictions in an illness-death model.

Touraine C(1), Helmer C(2), Joly P(2).

Author information:
(1)ISPED, University of Bordeaux, INSERM U-897-Epidemiologie-Biostatistique, 
Bordeaux, France celia.touraine@isped.u-bordeaux2.fr.
(2)ISPED, University of Bordeaux, INSERM U-897-Epidemiologie-Biostatistique, 
Bordeaux, France.

Multi-state models allow subjects to move among a finite number of states during 
a follow-up period. Most often, the objects of study are the transition 
intensities. The impact of covariates on them can also be studied by specifying 
regression models. Thus, estimation in multi-state models is usually focused on 
the transition intensities (or the cumulative transition intensities) and on the 
regression parameters. However, from a clinical or epidemiological point of 
view, other quantities could provide additional information and may be more 
relevant to answer practical questions. For example, given a set of covariates 
for a subject, it may be of interest to estimate the probability to experience a 
future event or the expected time without any event. To address these kinds of 
issues, we need to estimate quantities such as transition probabilities, 
cumulative probabilities and life expectancies. The purpose of this paper is to 
review a large number of these quantities in an illness-death model which is 
perhaps the most common multi-state model in the medical literature, and to 
propose a way to estimate them in addition to the transition intensities and the 
regression parameters. An illustration is given using interval-censored data 
from a large cohort study on cognitive ageing.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0962280213489234
PMID: 23698869 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


106. J Med Ethics. 2014 May;40(5):336-40. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2013-101438.
Epub  2013 May 22.

Life extension and the burden of mortality: Leon Kass versus John Harris.

Sauchelli A(1).

Author information:
(1)Correspondence to Dr Andrea Sauchelli, Department of Philosophy, Lingnan 
University, Castle Peak Road, Tuen Mun, New Territories, Hong Kong; 
andreasauchelli@ln.edu.hk.

Some bioethicists have questioned the desirability of a line of biomedical 
research aimed at extending the length of our lives over what some think to be 
its natural limit. In particular, Leon Kass has argued that living longer is not 
such a great advantage, and that mortality is not a burden after all. In this 
essay, I evaluate his arguments in favour of such a counterintuitive view by 
elaborating upon some critical remarks advanced by John Harris. Ultimately, I 
argue that nothing substantial has been said by Kass to undermine the 
desirability of life-extending technologies.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2013-101438
PMID: 23698894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


107. JAMA Intern Med. 2013 Jun 10;173(11):1006-12. doi: 
10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.639.

Treatment of nonfatal conditions at the end of life: nonmelanoma skin cancer.

Linos E(1), Parvataneni R, Stuart SE, Boscardin WJ, Landefeld CS, Chren MM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, 2340 Sutter St, Room N421, Mail Code Box 0808, San 
Francisco, CA 94143-0808, USA. linose@derm.ucsf.edu

Comment in
    JAMA Intern Med. 2013 Jun 10;173(11):1012-3.
    JAMA Intern Med. 2013 Dec 9-23;173(22):2095.
    JAMA Intern Med. 2013 Dec 9-23;173(22):2096.
    JAMA Intern Med. 2013 Dec 9-23;173(22):2096-7.
    JAMA Intern Med. 2013 Dec 9-23;173(22):2097.
    Dermatol Surg. 2014 May;40(5):489-96.

IMPORTANCE: Nonmelanoma skin cancer (NMSC) is the most common cancer and 
predominantly affects older patients. Because NMSCs do not typically affect 
survival or short-term quality of life, the decision about whether and how to 
treat patients with limited life expectancy (LLE) is challenging, especially for 
asymptomatic tumors.
OBJECTIVE: To compare treatment patterns and clinical outcomes of patients with 
NMSC with and without LLE.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: A prospective cohort study of 1536 
consecutive patients diagnosed with NMSC at 2 dermatology clinics: a 
university-based private practice and a Veterans Affairs Medical Center in San 
Francisco, California. Patients were recruited in 1999 through 2000 and followed 
up for a median of 9 years. A total of 1360 patients with 1739 tumors (90%) were 
included in the final analysis. Limited life expectancy was defined as patients 
either 85 years or older at the time of diagnosis or patients with multiple 
comorbidities (Charlson Comorbidity Index of ≥ 3). Treatment options included no 
treatment, destruction, or 2 types of surgery-elliptical excision or Mohs 
surgery.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Treatment type.
RESULTS: Most NMSCs (69%) were treated surgically, regardless of patient life 
expectancy. The choice of surgery was not influenced by patient prognosis in 
univariate or multivariable models adjusted for tumor and patient 
characteristics. Many patients with LLE (43%) died within 5 years, none of NMSC. 
Tumor recurrence was rare (3.7% at 5 years [95% CI, 2.6%-4.7%]) in all patients. 
Although serious complications were unusual, approximately 20% of patients with 
LLE reported complications of therapy, compared with 15% of other patients.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Most NMSCs are treated surgically, regardless of the 
patient's life expectancy. Given the very low tumor recurrence rates and high 
mortality from causes unrelated to NMSC in patients with LLE, clinicians should 
consider whether these patients would prefer less invasive treatment strategies.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.639
PMCID: PMC3726204
PMID: 23699934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. J Neurol Surg A Cent Eur Neurosurg. 2013 Dec;74 Suppl 1:e193-7. doi: 
10.1055/s-0033-1341415. Epub 2013 May 22.

Resection of a huge tufted angioma of orbit and orbitocranial mesh 
reconstruction.

Ozay R(1), Çetinalp N(1), Göçün P(2), Doruk E(1), Duz B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Etlik Ihtisas Research and Educational Hospital, 
Ankara, Turkey.
(2)Department of Pathology, Gazi University, Medical Faculty, Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, GATA Haydarpasa, Ankara, Turkey.

BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: Tufted angiomas (TAs) are rare, benign vascular 
neoplasms of childhood mainly localized in the skin and subcutaneous tissues. 
TAs are progressive, slowly growing, and characteristically involve superficial 
or deep muscle fascia tissue. TAs are frequently seen before the age of 5 years 
(60 to 70%) and have no sex predominance. TA following pregnancy or TA among 
immunosuppressive drug users was rarely reported in literature. TA is extremely 
rare in patients older than 60 years.
PATIENT: A 73-year-old man presented with right eye pain, redness, burning 
sensation, swelling, and double vision. On physical examination, his right eye 
was protruding, hyperemic, and there was a supraorbital palpable mass extending 
to the lateral orbital wall. Cranial computed tomography and magnetic resonance 
imaging revealed a heterogeneously enhancing right intraorbital retrobulbar 
capsulated lesion with intracranial extension. The patient underwent surgery. TA 
was proven histopathologically.
CONCLUSION: We report the first TA of the orbit with orbital and cranial bone 
destruction, frontotemporal extension, and loss of vision due to optic nerve 
compression. The surgical treatment and orbitocranial mesh reconstruction 
following neurosurgical gross total removal of the lesion is discussed. TAs 
should be considered in the differential diagnosis of intraorbital tumors. TAs 
usually persist throughout life but cause no serious symptoms when they are 
located in the upper thorax, neck, and shoulders. TAs located in the orbit 
should be excised.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1341415
PMID: 23700166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. PLoS Biol. 2013;11(5):e1001565. doi: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1001565. Epub 2013
May  21.

Three-dimensional reconstruction of bacteria with a complex endomembrane system.

Santarella-Mellwig R(1), Pruggnaller S, Roos N, Mattaj IW, Devos DP.

Author information:
(1)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Heidelberg, Germany.

The division of cellular space into functionally distinct membrane-defined 
compartments has been one of the major transitions in the history of life. Such 
compartmentalization has been claimed to occur in members of the Planctomycetes, 
Verrucomicrobiae, and Chlamydiae bacterial superphylum. Here we have 
investigated the three-dimensional organization of the complex endomembrane 
system in the planctomycete bacteria Gemmata obscuriglobus. We reveal that the 
G. obscuriglobus cells are neither compartmentalized nor nucleated as none of 
the spaces created by the membrane invaginations are closed; instead, they are 
all interconnected. Thus, the membrane organization of G. obscuriglobus, and 
most likely all PVC members, is not different from, but an extension of, the 
"classical" Gram-negative bacterial membrane system. Our results have 
implications for our definition and understanding of bacterial cell 
organization, the genesis of complex structure, and the origin of the eukaryotic 
endomembrane system.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pbio.1001565
PMCID: PMC3660258
PMID: 23700385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


110. MMW Fortschr Med. 2013 Apr 4;155(6):14. doi: 10.1007/s15006-013-0477-0.

[European countries in WHO health comparison. We're living long and well? Yes 
but....].

[Article in German]

Fricke A.

DOI: 10.1007/s15006-013-0477-0
PMID: 23700687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Am J Emerg Med. 2013 Jul;31(7):1047-55. doi: 10.1016/j.ajem.2013.03.039.
Epub  2013 May 20.

A decision analysis to determine a testing threshold for computed tomographic 
angiography and D-dimer in the evaluation of aortic dissection.

Taylor RA(1), Iyer NS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, CT, USA. richard.taylor@yale.edu

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study is to determine at what probability of 
thoracic aortic dissection (TAD) to use a computed tomographic angiography (CTA) 
or a d-dimer test.
METHODS: We used decision analysis software to determine the testing threshold 
(TT) for 3 hypothetical decisions when evaluating for TAD: (1) no testing vs 
CTA, (2) no testing vs D-dimer, and (3) CTA vs D-dimer. One- and 2-way 
sensitivity analyses were performed to determine which variables were drivers of 
the TTs.
RESULTS: We found TTs of 0.03%, 0.013%, and 0.6% for decisions 1, 2, and 3, 
respectively. For all 3 decisions, patient age and the annual rate of cancer 
were major drivers of the TT. In decisions 1 and 2, the probability of acute 
renal failure requiring renal replacement therapy was a major driver, whereas 
d-dimer sensitivity was a major driver for decision 3.
CONCLUSION: The TTs for TAD are low and reflect the large mortality benefit from 
diagnosis and treatment when compared with the small risks of CTA. However, 
given the low prevalence of TAD (~0.05% among emergency department patients 
presenting with symptoms previously attributed to TAD), our results suggest that 
without high-risk features, clinicians should not order a CTA test for TAD. 
Depending on age, CTA should be considered for those patients with a disease 
probability greater than 0.3% to 2.1%, whereas d-dimer testing is appropriate in 
the range of pretest probabilities from 0.01% to 0.6%. Future studies should 
focus on clinical decision rules that place disease probabilities below, 
between, and above the calculated TTs.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajem.2013.03.039
PMID: 23702073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. Clin Lab Med. 2013 Jun;33(2):293-310. doi: 10.1016/j.cll.2013.03.023.

Current management of sickle cell disease in pregnancy.

Andemariam B(1), Browning SL.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Lea Center for Hematologic Disorders, Adult 
Sickle Cell Clinical and Research Center, University of Connecticut Health 
Center, Farmington, CT 06030, USA. andemariam@uchc.edu

Life expectancy in sickle cell disease (SCD) has increased substantially and 
thus women with SCD are almost universally reaching child-bearing age. Studies 
on potential complications during pregnancy have generated mixed data; however, 
it is generally accepted that women with SCD are at higher risk for adverse 
pregnancy outcomes and maternal mortality. It is therefore critical that their 
care be provided by a team that includes a hematologist and a maternal-fetal 
medicine specialist. Despite the published risks, women with SCD are capable of 
successful pregnancy outcomes with proper education and well-coordinated 
multidisciplinary care. Further investigation is needed to standardize 
management.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cll.2013.03.023
PMID: 23702119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Clin Chest Med. 2013 Jun;34(2):165-79. doi: 10.1016/j.ccm.2013.02.004. Epub
2013  Apr 8.

Epidemiology of human immunodeficiency virus-associated pulmonary disease.

Murray JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary, San Francisco General Hospital, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, CA 94134-0841, USA. johnfmurr4@aol.com

HIV/AIDS was initially characterized as a progressively worsening disorder of 
cellular immunosuppression. In 1996, HIV/AIDS was separated into 2 diagnostic, 
management, prognostic categories: high-income and low-income groups. 
High-income people with HIV have had access to antiretroviral therapeutic 
agents, which have transformed HIV from a lethal to an indolent disease, with 
life expectancy comparable with other chronic conditions. About 50% of 
low-income people with HIV who are candidates for antiretroviral therapy 
actually receive it. Since 1996, the principal HIV-associated pulmonary disease 
in high-income countries has changed from Pneumocystis pneumonia to 
community-acquired pneumonia; tuberculosis has predominated in low-income 
countries as long as HIV has prevailed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccm.2013.02.004
PMID: 23702168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Jul;88:39-47. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.03.042. Epub
2013  Apr 10.

Use of hospital and long-term institutional care services in relation to 
proximity to death among older people in Finland.

Murphy M(1), Martikainen P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, Houghton Street, London WC2A 2AE, UK. m.murphy@lse.ac.uk

Using nationally-representative register data for older people in Finland in 
period 1998-2003 we study how the number of days in acute hospital and long term 
institutional care services varies by age and proximity to death and how these 
use patterns change as mortality improves. Acute health care use depends more on 
proximity to death than on age, a finding often interpreted as showing that the 
need for care services among older people will be substantially less than would 
be expected based on the likely increase in population numbers. We show that 
this assumption is too optimistic for three reasons: (1) the increase in 
population numbers will be concentrated mainly among the "old old" where use of 
services is substantial; (2) earlier findings of much lower use of acute care 
services by older than younger people who are close to death are not observed; 
and (3) any savings in acute care are more than offset by greater use of 
residential long-term care (LTC). The main consequences of improving mortality 
are: (1) to postpone rather than to reduce overall demand for health care; (2) 
to shift the balance of care from acute to long-term care services; and (3) to 
increase considerably the average age of time spent in care. We further 
construct a new indicator "care-free life expectancy" based on number of days in 
hospital and long-term care to summarise care use patterns for cohorts under a 
range of plausible mortality assumptions. As mortality improves, lifetime use of 
acute hospital and long-term care after age 65 and the proportion of life spent 
in LTC increases for later cohorts, but the proportion spent in acute care 
decreases slightly.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.03.042
PMID: 23702208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Am J Nurs. 2013 Jun;113(6):16-7. doi: 10.1097/01.NAJ.0000431252.24967.46.

U.S. life expectancy worsens for younger people and women.

Potera C.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NAJ.0000431252.24967.46
PMID: 23702749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. Chronic Illn. 2013 Dec;9(4):312-9. doi: 10.1177/1742395313479982. Epub 2013
May  23.

Adults with cystic fibrosis - responding to a new ageing population.

Edwards J(1), Clarke A, Greenop D.

Author information:
(1)1School of Healthcare, Baines Wing, University of Leeds, UK.

Worldwide, the life expectancy of adults with cystic fibrosis has increased 
