Management of undescended testis: a decision analysis.

van den Akker-van Marle ME(1), Kamphuis M(2)(3), van Gameren-Oosterom HB(2), 
Pierik FH(2), Kievit J(1); NST Expert Group.

Collaborators: Goede J, Hazebroek FW, van der Horst HJ, de Muinck Keizer-Schrama 
S, Tytgat SH, Wiersma T, Verloove-Vanhorick SP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands (MEVDAM, JK).
(2)Netherlands Organization for Applied Scientific Research, Leiden/Utrecht, The 
Netherlands (MK, HBMVG, FHP)
(3)Youth Health Care South Holland West (GGD-ZHW), Zoetermeer, The Netherlands 
(MK)

BACKGROUND: Undescended testis (UDT) or cryptorchidism is the most common 
genital anomaly seen in boys and can be treated surgically by orchidopexy. The 
age at which orchidopexy should be performed is controversial for both 
congenital and acquired UDT.
METHODS: A decision analysis is performed in which all available knowledge is 
combined to assess the outcomes of orchidopexy at different ages.
RESULTS: Without surgery, unilateral congenital UDT and bilateral congenital UDT 
are associated with average losses in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of 
1.53 QALYs (3% discounting 0.66 QALYs) and 5.23 QALYs (1.91 QALYs), 
respectively. Surgery reduces this QALY loss to on average 0.84 QALYs (0.21 
QALYs) for unilateral UDT and 1.66 QALYs (0.40 QALYs) for bilateral UDT. Surgery 
at detection will lead to the lowest QALY loss of 0.91 (0.34) and 1.73 (0.60) 
QALYs, respectively, for unilateral and bilateral acquired UDT compared with 
surgery during puberty and no surgery. No sensitivity analysis is able to change 
the preferences for these strategies.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on our decision analytic model using societal valuations of 
health outcomes, surgery for unilateral UDT (both congenital and acquired) 
yielded the lowest loss in QALYs. Given the modest differences in outcomes, 
there is room for patient (or parent) preference with respect to the performance 
and timing of surgery in case of unilateral UDT. For bilateral UDT (both 
congenital and acquired), orchidopexy at any age provides considerable benefit, 
in particular through improved fertility. As there is no strong effect of 
timing, the age at which orchidopexy is performed should be discussed with the 
parents and the patient. More clinical evidence on issues related to timing may 
in the future modify these results and hence this advice.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X13493145
PMID: 23819984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. J Urol. 2013 Dec;190(6):2039-45. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2013.06.051. Epub 2013
Jun  29.

Predictors of pathological progression among men with localized prostate cancer 
undergoing active surveillance: a sub-analysis of the REDEEM study.

Margel D(1), Nandy I, Wilson TH, Castro R, Fleshner N.

Author information:
(1)(a)Division of Urology, Department of Surgical Oncology, Princess Margaret 
Hospital, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. Electronic 
address: sdmargel@gmail.com.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2013 Dec;190(6):2045-6.
    J Urol. 2013 Dec;190(6):2046.
    J Urol. 2013 Dec;190(6):2046.

PURPOSE: We identify risk factors for pathological progression among men on 
active surveillance in the REDEEM (REduction by Dutasteride of clinical 
progression Events in Expectant Management trial).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: REDEEM was a 3-year, randomized, double-blind study of 
patients in 65 North American academic centers. Eligible men were 48 to 82 years 
old, with low risk prostate cancer (T1c-T2a), Gleason score 6 or less, 3 or 
fewer cores positive, tumor less than 50% of any 1 core, serum prostate specific 
antigen 11 ng/ml or less, life expectancy greater than 5 years and undergoing 
active surveillance. Entry biopsies (10 cores or more) were required. The 
analysis included 276 patients with 1 biopsy or more after the start of study 
treatment. Patients received dutasteride 0.5 mg per day or placebo for 3 years. 
Time to pathological progression (volume [4 or more cores positive or 50% or 
greater of 1 core] or grade progression [Gleason score 7 or greater]) in a 
post-baseline biopsy (not preceded by therapeutic intervention), and baseline 
variables were analyzed using a Cox proportional hazard model.
RESULTS: In total 94 of 276 patients with a post-baseline biopsy (34.1%) had 
pathological progression, 54 (19.6%) had volume progression only, 19 (6.9%) had 
grade progression only and 21 (7.6%) had both types of progression. Older age 
(HR 1.05, 95% CI 1.01-1.08, p=0.009) and higher prostate specific antigen 
density (HR 1.06, 95% CI 1.04-1.09, p<0.001) were associated with pathological 
progression. Post-baseline prostate specific antigen identified grade, but not 
volume progression in patients treated with placebo and dutasteride.
CONCLUSIONS: Older age and higher prostate specific antigen density were 
independent predictors of pathological progression. Post-baseline measurements 
as predictors of pathological progression could not be established. Further 
studies are needed to evaluate the role of dutasteride and establish better 
markers of pathological progression in active surveillance.

Copyright Â© 2013 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2013.06.051
PMID: 23820059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


419. J Spinal Cord Med. 2013 Jul;36(4):394-5. doi:
10.1179/1079026813Z.000000000196.

Spinal cord injury facts and figures at a glance.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1179/1079026813Z.000000000196
PMCID: PMC3758536
PMID: 23820155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Cell Tissue Res. 2013 Nov;354(2):481-94. doi: 10.1007/s00441-013-1676-9.
Epub  2013 Jul 3.

Regulation of tight junctions by sex hormones in normal human endometrial 
epithelial cells and uterus cancer cell line Sawano.

Someya M(1), Kojima T, Ogawa M, Ninomiya T, Nomura K, Takasawa A, Murata M, 
Tanaka S, Saito T, Sawada N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Sapporo Medical University School of 
Medicine, Sapporo, Japan.

The number of patients with uterine endometrial carcinoma, the cause of which 
involves sex hormones, has recently been growing rapidly because of increases in 
life expectancy and obesity. Tight junction proteins claudin-3 and -4 are 
receptors of Clostridium perfringens enterotoxin (CPE) and increase during 
endometrial carcinogenesis. In the present study of normal human endometrial 
epithelial (HEE) cells and the uterus cancer cell line Sawano, we investigate 
changes in the expression of tight junction proteins including claudin-3 and -4, 
the fence and barrier functions of the tight junction and the cytotoxic effects 
of CPE by sex hormones. In primary cultured HEE cells, treatment with 
progesterone (P4) but not estradiol (E2), induced claudin-1, -3, -4 and -7 and 
occludin, together with the downregulation of the barrier function but not the 
fence function. In Sawano cells, claudin-3 and -4 were upregulated by E2 but not 
by P4, together with a disruption of both the barrier and fence function. In 
primary cultured HEE cells, claudin-3 and -4 were localized at the apicalmost 
regions (tight junction areas) and no cytotoxicity of CPE was observed. In 
Sawano cells, claudin-3 and -4 were found not only in the apicalmost regions but 
also at the basolateral membrane and the cytotoxicity of CPE was enhanced by E2. 
Thus, tight junctions are physiological regulated by sex hormones in normal HEE 
cells during the menstrual cycle suggesting that safer and more effective 
therapeutic methods targeting claudins in uterine cancer can be developed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00441-013-1676-9
PMID: 23820735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Mol Syst Biol. 2013 Jul 2;9:679. doi: 10.1038/msb.2013.35.

Insulin/IGF-1-mediated longevity is marked by reduced protein metabolism.

Stout GJ(1), Stigter EC, Essers PB, Mulder KW, Kolkman A, Snijders DS, van den 
Broek NJ, Betist MC, Korswagen HC, Macinnes AW, Brenkman AB.

Author information:
(1)University Medical Center Utrecht, Wilhelmina Children's Hospital, Department 
of Molecular Cancer Research, Section Metabolic Diseases, Utrecht, The 
Netherlands.

Mutations in the daf-2 gene of the conserved Insulin/Insulin-like Growth Factor 
(IGF-1) pathway double the lifespan of the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. This 
phenotype is completely suppressed by deletion of Forkhead transcription factor 
daf-16. To uncover regulatory mechanisms coordinating this extension of life, we 
employed a quantitative proteomics strategy with daf-2 mutants in comparison 
with N2 and daf-16; daf-2 double mutants. This revealed a remarkable 
longevity-specific decrease in proteins involved in mRNA processing and 
transport, the translational machinery, and protein metabolism. Correspondingly, 
the daf-2 mutants display lower amounts of mRNA and 20S proteasome activity, 
despite maintaining total protein levels equal to that observed in wild types. 
Polyribosome profiling in the daf-2 and daf-16;daf-2 double mutants confirmed a 
daf-16-dependent reduction in overall translation, a phenotype reminiscent of 
Dietary Restriction-mediated longevity, which was independent of germline 
activity. RNA interference (RNAi)-mediated knockdown of proteins identified by 
our approach resulted in modified C. elegans lifespan confirming the importance 
of these processes in Insulin/IGF-1-mediated longevity. Together, the results 
demonstrate a role for the metabolism of proteins in the Insulin/IGF-1-mediated 
extension of life.

DOI: 10.1038/msb.2013.35
PMCID: PMC3734508
PMID: 23820781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


422. JAMA. 2013 Jul 3;310(1):101. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.5186.

Expectation of life.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.5186
PMID: 23821104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2013 Nov;471(11):3398-404. doi: 
10.1007/s11999-013-3147-8. Epub 2013 Jul 3.

Conditional survival is greater than overall survival at diagnosis in patients 
with osteosarcoma and Ewing's sarcoma.

Miller BJ(1), Lynch CF, Buckwalter JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation, University of Iowa, 200 
Hawkins Dr., 01015 JPP, Iowa City, IA, 52246, USA, benjamin-j-miller@uiowa.edu.

Comment in
    Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2013 Nov;471(11):3395-7.

BACKGROUND: Conditional survival is a measure of the risk of mortality given 
that a patient has survived a defined period of time. These estimates are 
clinically helpful, but have not been reported previously for osteosarcoma or 
Ewing's sarcoma.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: We determined the conditional survival of patients with 
osteosarcoma and Ewing's sarcoma given survival of 1 or more years.
METHODS: We used the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) Program 
database to investigate cases of osteosarcoma and Ewing's sarcoma in patients 
younger than 40 years from 1973 to 2009. The SEER Program is managed by the 
National Cancer Institute and provides survival data gathered from 
population-based cancer registries. We used an actuarial life table analysis to 
determine any cancer cause-specific 5-year survival estimates conditional on 1 
to 5 years of survival after diagnosis. We performed a similar analysis to 
determine 20-year survival from the time of diagnosis.
RESULTS: The estimated 5-year survival improved each year after diagnosis. For 
local/regional osteosarcoma, the 5-year survival improved from 74.8% at baseline 
to 91.4% at 5 years-meaning that if a patient with localized osteosarcoma lives 
for 5 years, the chance of living for another 5 years is 91.4%. Similarly, the 
5-year survivals for local/regional Ewing's sarcoma improved from 72.9% at 
baseline to 92.5% at 5 years, for metastatic osteosarcoma 35.5% at baseline to 
85.4% at 5 years, and for metastatic Ewing's sarcoma 31.7% at baseline to 83.6% 
at 5 years. The likelihood of 20-year cause-specific survival from the time of 
diagnosis in osteosarcoma and Ewing's sarcoma was almost 90% or greater after 10 
years of survival, suggesting that while most patients will remain disease-free 
indefinitely, some experience cancer-related complications years after presumed 
eradication.
CONCLUSIONS: The 5-year survival estimates of osteosarcoma and Ewing's sarcoma 
improve with each additional year of patient survival. Knowledge of a changing 
risk profile is useful in counseling patients with time. The presence of 
cause-specific mortality decades after treatment supports lifelong monitoring in 
this population.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level II, prognostic study. See the Instructions for Authors 
for a complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-013-3147-8
PMCID: PMC3792244
PMID: 23821136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Pediatrics. 2013 Aug;132(2):e324-32. doi: 10.1542/peds.2012-3350. Epub 2013
Jul  1.

Cost-effectiveness of using 2 vs 3 primary doses of 13-valent pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccine.

Stoecker C(1), Hampton LM, Link-Gelles R, Messonnier ML, Zhou F, Moore MR.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Immunization and Respiratory Diseases, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia 30329, USA. 
cfstoecker@tulane.edu

Comment in
    Pediatrics. 2013 Aug;132(2):e498-9.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Although effective in preventing pneumococcal disease, 
13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) is the most expensive vaccine 
on the routinely recommended pediatric schedule in the United States. We 
examined the cost-effectiveness of switching from 4 total doses to 3 total doses 
by removing the third dose in the primary series in the United States.
METHODS: We used a probabilistic model following a single birth cohort of 4.3 
million to calculate societal cost savings and increased disease burden from 
removing the 6-month dose of PCV13. Based on modified estimates of 7-valent 
pneumococcal conjugate vaccine from randomized trials and observational studies, 
we assumed that vaccine effectiveness under the 2 schedules is identical for the 
first 6 months of life and largely similar after administration of the 12- to 
15-month booster dose.
RESULTS: Removing the third dose of PCV13 would annually save $500 million (in 
2011$) but would also result in an estimated 2.5 additional deaths among 
inpatients with pneumonia or invasive pneumococcal disease. Such dose removal 
would also result in 261,000 estimated otitis media and 12,000 estimated 
pneumonia cases annually. These additional illnesses could be prevented through 
modest increases in coverage. Overall, societal savings per additional life-year 
lost would be â¼$6 million. When nonfatal outcomes are also considered, savings 
would range from $143,000 to $4 million per additional quality adjusted 
life-year lost, depending on the assumptions used for otitis media.
CONCLUSIONS: Sizable societal cost savings and a moderate pneumococcal disease 
increase could be expected from removing the PCV13 primary series' third dose.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2012-3350
PMID: 23821695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Int J Health Serv. 2013;43(2):193-216. doi: 10.2190/HS.43.2.b.

A comparative study of population health in the United States and Canada during 
the neoliberal era, 1980-2008.

Siddiqi A(1), Kawachi I, Keating DP, Hertzman C.

Author information:
(1)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario. 
aa.siddiqi@utoronto.ca

This article draws on the vast evidence that suggests, on one hand, that 
socioeconomic inequalities in health are present in every society in which they 
have been measured and, on the other hand, that the size of inequalities varies 
substantially across societies. We conduct a comparative case study of the 
United States and Canada to explore the role of neoliberalism as a force that 
has created inequalities in socioeconomic resources (and thus in health) in both 
societies and the roles of other societal forces (political, economic, and 
social) that have provided a buffer, thereby lessening socioeconomic 
inequalities or their effects on health. Our findings suggest that, from 1980 to 
2008, while both the United States and Canada underwent significant neoliberal 
reforms, Canada showed more resilience in terms of health inequalities as a 
result of differences in: (a) the degree of income inequality, itself resulting 
from differences in features of the labor market and tax and transfer policies, 
(b) equality in the provision of social goods such as health care and education, 
and (c) the extent of social cohesiveness across race/ethnic- and class-based 
groups. Our study suggests that further attention must be given to both causes 
and buffers of health inequalities.

DOI: 10.2190/HS.43.2.b
PMID: 23821902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Nutr Hosp. 2013 Mar-Apr;28(2):474-8. doi: 10.3305/nh.2013.28.2.6183.

Fatty acids intake and immune parameters in the elderly.

GonzÃ¡lez S(1), LÃ³pez P, Margolles A, SuÃ¡rez A, Patterson AM, Cuervo A, de los 
Reyes-GavilÃ¡n CG, Gueimonde M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Functional Biology, University of Oviedo, Oviedo, Asturias, 
Spain.

INTRODUCTION: The rapid increase on life-expectancy represents a major challenge 
and economic burden for modern societies. Several studies have focused on the 
effects of polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFA) upon the immune system; however 
less attention has been paid to the effects of monounsaturated fatty acids 
(MUFA). In this work we investigated the relationship of habitual consumption of 
different types of fatty acids with different immune parameters in the elderly.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: 40 institutionalized elderly (76-95 y) and 35 home-living 
middle-age subjects (57-65 y) were recruited. Dietary intakes of macronutrients, 
fiber and fatty acids, as well as immune parameters such as serum cytokines 
levels (IL-10, TNF-Î±, IL-8, IL-17, TGF-Î² and IL-12), phagocytic activity and 
cytotoxic NK activity, were determined.
RESULTS: Elderly subjects had a lower intake of total lipids. MUFA intake was 
significantly lower in the elderly group than in middle-age adults whilst the 
contrary was true for PUFA. MUFA intake in the elderly was found to be 
positively associated with IL-12 (Î² = 0.879) and TNF-Î± (Î² = 0.789) serum 
concentrations, whilst PUFA intake was inversely related to levels of IL-12 (Î² = 
-0.534). These associations were not observed in the middle-age group.
CONCLUSION: MUFA intake may contribute to the pro-inflammatory status present in 
the elderly. It may be advisable to develop future nutrient recommendations 
specific for elderly taking into account immune parameters.

Publisher: IntroducciÃ³n: El rÃ¡pido aumento de la esperanza de vida en las 
sociedades desarrolladas representa un gran desafÃ­o y supone una elevada carga 
econÃ³mica. Numerosos trabajos han estudiado los efectos de los Ã¡cidos grasos 
poliinsaturados (AGP) sobre el sistema inmune, sin embargo los efectos de los 
Ã¡cidos grasos monoinsaturados (AGM) han recibido mucha menos atenciÃ³n. En este 
trabajo se investigÃ³ la relaciÃ³n del consumo habitual de los diferentes tipos de 
Ã¡cidos grasos con diversos parÃ¡metros inmunolÃ³gicos en ancianos. Individuos y 
mÃ©todos: Se reclutaron 40 ancianos institucionalizados (79-95 AÃOs) y 35 
individuos de mediana edad (57-65 AÃOs) que residÃ­an en sus hogares. Se 
determinÃ³ la ingesta diaria de macronutrientes, fibra y Ã¡cidos grasos, asÃ­ como 
diversos parÃ¡metros inmunes; niveles sÃ©ricos de citoquinas (IL-10, TNF-Î±, IL-8, 
IL-17, TGF-Î² e IL-12), actividad fagocÃ­tica y actividad citotÃ³xica de cÃ©lulas 
NK. Resultados: Los voluntarios ancianos presentaron una menor ingesta de 
lÃ­pidos totales. La ingesta de AGM fue significativamente menor en el grupo de 
ancianos que en los adultos de mediana edad, mientras que lo contrario fue 
cierto para los AGP. La ingesta de AGM en ancianos se asociÃ³ positivamente con 
las concentraciones de IL-12 (Î² = 0,879) y TNF-Î± (Î² = 0,789), mientras que la 
ingesta de AGP mostrÃ³ una relaciÃ³n inversa con los niveles de IL-12 (Î² = 
-0,534). Estas asociaciones no fueron observadas en el grupo de mediana edad. 
ConclusiÃ³n: La ingesta de AGM podrÃ­a contribuir al estado pro-inflamatorio 
presente en los ancianos. SerÃ­a aconsejable desarrollar recomendaciones 
nutricionales especÃ­ficas para ancianos teniendo en cuenta parÃ¡metros 
inmunolÃ³gicos.

Copyright Â© AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2013. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.3305/nh.2013.28.2.6183
PMID: 23822700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2013;190:115-7.

Including other system in E-Care telemonitoring platform.

Ahmed Benyahia A(1), Hajjam A, Andres E, Hajjam M, Hilaire V.

Author information:
(1)UTBM/IRTES-SET 90010 Belfort, France.

Nowadays, telemonitoring systems are increasingly used, due to the increasing of 
life expectancy and chronic diseases. Indeed, chronic diseases and disabilities 
due to advancing age are responsible for health care costs increasingly growing. 
Telemonitoring systems provide a low cost way to monitor patients and their 
needs in the comfort of their own homes. In first systems, the data were 
collected then sent directly to physicians to be interpreted. Nowadays, thanks 
to technological advancements, software and systems have been developed to 
process data, on a simple computer or even smartphone. In this paper, we present 
e-Care telemonitoring system that combines the semantic web and expert system. 
E-Care is based on generic ontologies and a decision support system. The 
decision support system uses ontologies as knowledge base and an inference 
engine to detect abnormal situations. E-Care platform has a generic open 
architecture, which cans include other knowledge coming from other systems. 
We'll show how to integrate data of auscultation sounds in this architecture.

PMID: 23823394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Stud Health Technol Inform. 2013;190:222-4.

Impacts of globalization in health.

Ioannou A(1), Mechili A, Kolokathi A, Diomidous M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, University of Athens, Greece.

INTRODUCTION: Globalization is the process of international integration arising 
from the interchange of world views, products, ideas, and other aspects of 
culture. Globalization describes the interplay of macro-social forces across 
cultures. The purpose of this study is a systematic review of the bibliography 
on the impacts of globalization in health. The consequences of globalization on 
health present a twofold dimension, on the one hand affects the health of the 
population and on the other hand organization and functioning of health systems. 
As a result of globalization, there has been an undeniable economic development 
and technological progress to support the level of health around the world, 
improving the health status of certain populations with a beneficial increase in 
life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: In many aspects globalization is good but there are many problems 
too.

PMID: 23823429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Kidney Int. 2013 Nov;84(5):874-9. doi: 10.1038/ki.2013.264. Epub 2013 Jul 3.

Hepatitis C treatment in patients with kidney disease.

Fabrizi F(1), Aghemo A, Messa P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Maggiore Hospital and IRCCS Foundation, Milano, 
Italy.

Comment in
    Kidney Int. 2014 May;85(5):1238-9.

Hepatitis C virus (HCV) remains the most common cause of liver damage in 
patients with kidney disease, including those on long-term dialysis. The natural 
history of HCV in patients on regular dialysis is not fully elucidated, but an 
adverse effect of HCV on survival has been noted; a novel meta-analysis of 
observational studies (14 studies including 145,608 unique patients) showed that 
the summary estimate for adjusted relative risk (all-cause mortality) was 1.35 
with a 95% confidence interval of 1.25-1.47. The adjusted RR for liver 
disease-related death and cardiovascular mortality among maintenance dialysis 
patients was 3.82 (95% CI, 1.92-7.61) and 1.26 (95% CI, 1.10-1.45), 
respectively. It has been recommended that the decision to treat HCV in patients 
with chronic kidney disease be based on the potential benefits and risks of 
therapy, including life expectancy, candidacy for kidney transplant, and 
comorbidities. A pooled analysis including 494 dialysis patients on monotherapy 
with conventional interferon reported a summary estimate for sustained viral 
response and dropout rate of 39% (95% CI, 32-46) and 19% (95% CI, 13-26), 
respectively. All renal transplant candidates (dialysis dependent or not) with 
HCV should be assessed for antiviral treatment given the increased risk of 
progressive liver disease with immunosuppressive therapy, the increased life 
expectancy compared to other HCV-positive patients on dialysis, and the 
inability to receive interferon after transplant. Current guidelines support 
monotherapy with standard interferon in these patients, but modern antiviral 
approaches (that is, dual therapy with peg-IFN plus ribavirin) in a 
well-controlled setting may be an appropriate alternative.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.2013.264
PMID: 23823603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 18;8(6):e66550. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066550. Print 
2013.

Life Years Lost Associated with Obesity-Related Diseases for U.S. Non-Smoking 
Adults.

Chang SH(1), Pollack LM, Colditz GA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Department of Surgery, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri, United States of America.

The objectives of this paper are to predict life years lost associated with 
obesity-related diseases (ORDs) for U.S. non-smoking adults, and to examine the 
relationship between those ORDs and mortality. Data from the National Health 
Interview Survey, 1997-2000, were used. We employed mixed proportional hazard 
models to estimate the association between those ORDs and mortality and used 
simulations to project life years lost associated with the ORDs. We found that 
obesity-attributable comorbidities are associated with large decreases in life 
years and increases in mortality rates. The life years lost associated with ORDs 
is more marked for younger adults than older adults, for blacks than whites, for 
males than females, and for the more obese than the less obese. Using U.S. 
non-smoking adults aged 40 to 49 years as an example to illustrate percentage of 
the life years lost associated with ORDs, we found that the mean life years lost 
associated with ORDs for U.S. non-smoking black males aged 40 to 49 years with a 
body mass index above 40 kg/m(2) was 5.43 years, which translates to a 7.5% 
reduction in total life years. White males of the same age range and same degree 
of obesity lost 5.23 life years on average - a 6.8% reduction in total life 
years, followed by black females (5.04 years, a 6.5% reduction in life years), 
and white females (4.7 years, a 5.8% reduction in life years). Overall, ORDs 
increased chances of dying and lessened life years by 0.2 to 11.7 years 
depending on gender, race, BMI classification, and age.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066550
PMCID: PMC3688902
PMID: 23823705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


431. Acta Derm Venereol. 2014 Jan;94(1):45-9. doi: 10.2340/00015555-1654.

Ipilimumab in melanoma patients with brain metastasis: a retro-spective 
multicentre evaluation of thirty-eight patients.

Konstantinou MP(1), Dutriaux C, Gaudy-Marqueste C, Mortier L, Bedane C, Girard 
C, Thellier S, Jouary T, Grob JJ, Richard MA, Templier C, Sakji L, Guillot B, 
Paul C, Meyer N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Toulouse III University and Larrey Hospital, 31059 
Toulouse Cedex 9, France.

Treatment with ipilimumab, a monoclonal antibody that antagonizes cytotoxic 
T-lymphocyte antigen-4 (CTLA-4), results in improved survival of patients with 
stage IIIc-IV melanoma. However, there is a lack of data on the efficacy of 
ipilimumab in patients with brain metastases. To evaluate the efficacy of 
ipilimumab for the treatment of brain metastasis in melanoma, a multicentre, 
retrospective analysis of 38 patients with brain metastases in melanoma, treated 
with ipilimumab in the context of the French Expanded Access Program, was 
performed. Three patients had a 3 partial response, 5 stable disease, 15 disease 
progression and 15 patients died during the induction phase due to disease 
progression. Median overall survival was 101 days (range 54-154). The brain 
metastases control rate was 16% (6/38). Ipilimumab may be effective in a few 
patients with central nervous system metastasis. However, patients with brain 
metastases and a low life expectancy may not benefit sufficiently from treatment 
with ipilimumab.

DOI: 10.2340/00015555-1654
PMID: 23824275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Brain. 2013 Oct;136(Pt 10):3187-99. doi: 10.1093/brain/awt117. Epub 2013 Jul
3.

The lifelong course of chronic epilepsy: the Chalfont experience.

Novy J(1), Belluzzo M, Caboclo LO, Catarino CB, Yogarajah M, Martinian L, 
Peacock JL, Bell GS, Koepp MJ, Thom M, Sander JW, Sisodiya SM.

Author information:
(1)1 NIHR University College London Hospitals Biomedical Research Centre, 
Department of Clinical and Experimental Epilepsy, UCL Institute of Neurology, 
Queen Square, London WC1N 3BG and Epilepsy Society, Chalfont St Peter, SL9 0RJ, 
UK.

The long-term outcome of chronic epilepsy remains largely unknown, despite a 
long historical experience. We report the lifelong course of epilepsy of an 
historical cohort of 235 subjects who were in residential care at the Chalfont 
Centre for Epilepsy: 122 had comprehensive post-mortem examination. The 
populations admitted as resident to the centre over time followed the evolution 
of society's perception of epilepsy. 'Early residents' (before 1972) were 
admitted for sheltered employment, escaping stigmatization, whereas 'later' 
residents with more severe epilepsies were admitted for care. Subjects admitted 
before 1972 were similar to subjects followed nowadays as outpatients, whereas 
patients admitted later with a higher burden of disabilities are often those in 
residential care. This long follow-up allowed exploration of a wide spectrum of 
epilepsies, affecting both subjects who were otherwise healthy and those with 
co-morbidities. Age at death showed a bimodal distribution with an early peak of 
mortality between 45-50 years old, whilst the remainder had life expectancy 
comparable to the general population. As a group, subjects who had post-mortem 
examination were not significantly different from patients who did not have 
post-mortem examination, but post-mortem examination provided data that were 
otherwise unavailable. For those who had post-mortem examination, sudden 
unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP, 18% of all deaths) did not fully explain 
the early mortality, to which co-morbidities contributed. High seizure frequency 
was a significant independent predictor of early death even after excluding 
SUDEP (e.g. reduction in years of life for those who had >4 seizures/month 
compared with those who had <1 seizure/month: 13 years; 95% confidence interval: 
6-19; overall P = 0.0006). Those who survived to older age increasingly went 
into spontaneous remission lasting until death (in the whole cohort, 38/166, 23% 
of those who died in or after sixth decade). In subjects who had post-mortem 
examination, older age (odds ratio = 1.13; 95% confidence interval: 1.06-1.20) 
and presence of neuropathologically confirmed degenerative changes (that were 
not the cause of epilepsy) (odds ratio 7.14; 1.95-26.2) were independent 
predictors of terminal remission. Epilepsy may cause premature death indirectly 
through co-morbid conditions. Terminal remission occurs even without prior 
remissions; ageing may improve epilepsy drug responsiveness although unknown 
factors related to the natural history may also play a role.

DOI: 10.1093/brain/awt117
PMID: 23824485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. J Neurooncol. 2013 Oct;115(1):87-94. doi: 10.1007/s11060-013-1198-z. Epub
2013  Jul 4.

Health-related quality of life of significant others of patients with malignant 
CNS versus non-CNS tumors: a comparative study.

Boele FW(1), Heimans JJ, Aaronson NK, Taphoorn MJ, Postma TJ, Reijneveld JC, 
Klein M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Psychology, VU University Medical Center, PO Box 7057, 
1007 MB, Amsterdam, The Netherlands, f.boele@vumc.nl.

It is often assumed that brain tumor patients' significant others (SOs: 
partners, other family members or close friends) may face greater stress than 
those of patients with malignancies not involving the central nervous system 
(CNS), due to progressive changes in neurological and cognitive functioning. We 
compared health-related quality of life (HRQOL) of SOs of patients with 
high-grade glioma (HGG) and low-grade glioma (LGG) with that of SOs of patients 
with non-CNS tumors with similar prognosis and at a similar phase in the disease 
trajectory (i.e. non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and low-grade hematological 
malignancies (NHL/CLL), respectively). HRQOL of SOs and patients was assessed 
using the Short Form-36 (SF-36) Health Survey. Patients' neurological 
functioning was indexed and they underwent comprehensive neurocognitive testing. 
SOs of 213 LGG patients, 99 NHL/CLL patients, 55 HGG patients and 29 NSCLC 
patients participated. The SOs of LGG and NHL/CLL patients reported similar 
levels of HRQOL. SOs of HGG patients reported significantly lower mental health 
scores (MCS; pÂ =Â 0.041) and social functioning (pÂ =Â 0.028) than those of NSCLC 
patients. Mental health scores (MCS) of HGG and NSCLC patients were associated 
significantly with the mental health of their SOs (pÂ =Â 0.013 and pÂ <Â 0.001, 
respectively). Surprisingly, HGG patients' cognitive and neurological 
functioning were not predictive of SOs' mental health at the multivariate level. 
SOs of patients with highly malignant CNS tumors in the acute phase are at 
increased risk of compromised HRQOL compared to those of patients with systemic 
tumors without CNS involvement and a comparable life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-013-1198-z
PMID: 23824535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Eur J Pain. 2014 Feb;18(2):269-78. doi: 10.1002/j.1532-2149.2013.00357.x.
Epub  2013 Jul 3.

When the wind goes out of the sail - declining recovery expectations in the 
first weeks of back pain.

Carstens JK(1), Shaw WS, Boersma K, Reme SE, Pransky G, Linton SJ.

Author information:
(1)Center of Health and Medical Psychology (CHAMP), School of Law, Psychology, 
and Social Work, Ãrebro University, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Expectations for recovery are a known predictor for returning to 
work. Most studies seem to conclude that the higher the expectancy the better 
the outcome. However, the development of expectations over time is rarely 
researched and experimental studies show that realistic expectations rather than 
high expectancies are the most adaptive. This study aims to explore patterns of 
stability and change in expectations for recovery during the first weeks of a 
back-pain episode and how these patterns relate to other psychological variables 
and outcome.
METHODS: The study included 496 volunteer patients seeking treatment for 
work-related, acute back pain. The participants were measured with self-report 
scales of depression, fear of pain, life impact of pain, catastrophizing and 
expectations for recovery at two time points. A follow-up focusing on recovery 
and return to work was conducted 3 months later. A cluster analysis was 
conducted, categorizing the data on the trajectories of recovery expectations.
RESULTS: Cluster analysis revealed four clusters regarding the development of 
expectations for recovery during a 2-week period after pain onset. Three out of 
four clusters showed stability in their expectations as well as corresponding 
levels of proximal psychological factors. The fourth cluster showed increases in 
distress and a decrease in expectations for recovery. This cluster also has poor 
odds ratios for returning to work and recovery.
CONCLUSION: Decreases in expectancies for recovery seem as important as baseline 
values in terms of outcome, which has clinical and theoretical implications.

Â© 2013 European Pain Federation - EFICÂ®

DOI: 10.1002/j.1532-2149.2013.00357.x
PMID: 23824730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. QJM. 2013 Oct;106(10):969-75. doi: 10.1093/qjmed/hct146. Epub 2013 Jul 2.

Frailty: a key indicator to minimize inappropriate medication in older people.

Poudel A(1), Hubbard RE, Nissen L, Mitchell C.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Australia Centre of Excellence (PACE), School of Pharmacy, The 
University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia. a.poudel@uq.edu.au.

Older populations are more likely to have multiple co-morbid diseases that 
require multiple treatments, which make them a large consumer of medications. As 
a person grows older, their ability to tolerate medications becomes less due to 
age-related changes in pharmacokinetics and pharmacodynamics often heading along 
a path that leads to frailty. Frail older persons often have multiple 
co-morbidities with signs of impairment in activities of daily living. 
Prescribing drugs for these vulnerable individuals is difficult and is a 
potentially unsafe activity. Inappropriate prescribing in older population can 
be detected using explicit (criterion-based) or implicit (judgment-based) 
criteria. Unfortunately, most current therapeutic guidelines are applicable only 
to healthy older adults and cannot be generalized to frail patients. These 
discrepancies should be addressed either by developing new criteria or by 
refining the existing tools for frail older people. The first and foremost step 
is to identify the frail patient in clinical practice by applying clinically 
validated tools. Once the frail patient has been identified, there is a need for 
specific measures or criteria to assess appropriateness of therapy that consider 
such factors as quality of life, functional status and remaining life expectancy 
and thus modified goals of care.

DOI: 10.1093/qjmed/hct146
PMID: 23824943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Health Econ. 2014 Jul;23(7):792-805. doi: 10.1002/hec.2950. Epub 2013 Jul 4.

An instrument for measuring the social willingness to pay for health state 
improvement.

Richardson J(1), Iezzi A, Sinha K, Khan MA, Mckie J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Australia.

This paper describes an instrument for measuring the social value of changes in 
health status, the Relative Social Willingness to Pay. It is a unique 
combination of measurement attributes designed to minimise cognitive complexity 
and provide an additional option for measuring 'social value'. Similar to the 
person trade-off (PTO), it adopts a social perspective and asks respondents to 
evaluate programmes on behalf of society. Unlike the PTO, trade-offs between the 
options use dollars, not numbers of patients. Respondents are not, however, 
asked for their personal willingness to pay. Rather, the opportunity cost of 
funds spent on one service is as an offsetting reduction in funds for a second 
service. The amount spent on each service therefore indicates relative, not 
absolute, value. However, the two services combine to produce one Quality 
adjusted life year which allows the calculation of a Quality adjusted life 
year-like unit of social value on a 0-1 scale. A three-stage survey was used to 
test the instrument's reliability, validity and sensitivity to the framing of 
the main question. Results indicate that the Relative Social Willingness to Pay 
produces values similar to but less than the PTO and time trade-off techniques.

Copyright Â© 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2950
PMID: 23824989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Aug 1;178(3):339-49. doi: 10.1093/aje/kws580. Epub 2013
Jul  3.

Assessing non-cancer-related health status of US cancer patients: other-cause 
survival and comorbidity prevalence.

Cho H(1), Mariotto AB, Mann BS, Klabunde CN, Feuer EJ.

Author information:
(1)Data Modeling Branch, Surveillance Research Program, Division of Cancer 
Control and Population Sciences, National Cancer Institute, 9609 Medical Center 
Drive, Room 4E568, Bethesda, MD 20892, USA. choh3@mail.nih.gov

With advances in prevention, screening, and treatment, cancer patients are 
living longer; hence, non-cancer-related health status will likely play a larger 
role in determining their life expectancy. In this study, we present a novel 
method for characterizing non-cancer--related health status of cancer patients 
using population-based cancer registry data. We assessed non-cancer-related 
health status in the context of survival from other causes of death and 
prevalence of comorbidities. Data from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results program (2000-2006) were used to analyze cancer patients' survival 
probabilities by cause of death. Other-cause survival was estimated using a 
left-truncated survival method with the hazard of death due to other causes 
characterized as a function of age. Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results 
data linked to Medicare claims (1992-2005) were used to quantify comorbidity 
prevalence. Relative to the US population, survival from a non-cancer-related 
death was higher for patients diagnosed with early stage breast and prostate 
cancer but lower for lung cancer patients at all stages. Lung cancer patients 
had worse comorbidity status than did other cancer patients. The present study 
represents the first attempt to evaluate the non-cancer-related health status of 
US cancer patients by cancer site (breast, prostate, colorectal, and lung) and 
stage. The findings provide insight into non-cancer-related health issues among 
cancer patients and their risk of dying from other causes.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kws580
PMCID: PMC3816346
PMID: 23825168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Appl Energy. 2013 Jul;107(100):209-218. doi: 10.1016/j.apenergy.2013.02.032.

Prospects for arable farm uptake of Short Rotation Coppice willow and miscanthus 
in England.

Glithero NJ(1), Wilson P, Ramsden SJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, School of Biosciences, 
University of Nottingham, Loughborough, Sutton Bonington Campus, LE12 5RD, 
United Kingdom.

Biomass will play a role in the UK meeting EU targets on renewable energy use. 
Short Rotation Coppice (SRC) and miscanthus are potential biomass feedstocks; 
however, supply will rely on farmer willingness to grow these crops. Despite 
attractive crop establishment grants for dedicated energy crops (DECs) in the 
UK, uptake remains low. Drawing on results from an on-farm survey with 244 
English arable farmers, 81.6% (87.7%) of farmers would not consider growing 
miscanthus (SRC), while respectively, 17.2% (11.9%) would consider growing and 
1.2% (0.4%) were currently growing these crops. Farmer age, location, land 
ownership, farm type, farm size and farmer education level were not significant 
factors in determining acceptance of DECs. The main reasons cited for not 
growing DECs were impacts on land quality, lack of appropriate machinery, 
commitment of land for a long period of time, time to financial return and 
profitability. Reasons cited for willingness to grow DECs included land quality, 
ease of crop management, commitment of land for a long period of time, and 
profitability. Farmers cited a range of 'moral' (e.g. should not be using land 
for energy crops when there is a shortage of food), land quality, knowledge, 
profit and current farming practice comments as reasons for not growing DECs, 
while those willing to grow DECs cited interest in renewable energy, willingness 
to consider new crops, and low labour needs as rationale for their interest. 
Farm business objectives indicated that maximising profit and quality of life 
were most frequently cited as very important objectives. Previous research in 
the UK indicates that farmers in arable areas are unlikely to convert large 
areas of land to DECs, even where these farmers have an interest and willingness 
to grow them. Assuming that those farmers interested in growing DECs converted 
9.29% (average percentage of arable land set-aside between 1996 and 2005) of 
their utilised agricultural area to these crops, 50,700Â ha and 89,900Â ha of SRC 
and miscanthus would, respectively, be grown on English arable farms. While farm 
business objectives were not identified as key determinants of DEC acceptance, 
enhanced information exchange through extension agents, providing market 
security and considering land reversion grants post-production are potential 
policy considerations.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apenergy.2013.02.032
PMCID: PMC3688319
PMID: 23825896


439. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2013 May;110(22):387-93. doi: 10.3238/arztebl.2013.0387.
Epub  2013 May 31.

Chronic pancreatitis--definition, etiology, investigation and treatment.

Mayerle J(1), Hoffmeister A, Werner J, Witt H, Lerch MM, MÃ¶ssner J.

Author information:
(1)University Medicine Greifswald, Department of Internal Medicine A.

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2013 Oct;110(41):686.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2013 Oct;110(41):686-7.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2013 Oct;110(41):687.

BACKGROUND: Chronic pancreatitis has an annual incidence of 23 per 100 000 
population in Germany, where it accounts for about 10 000 hospital admissions 
per year. The disease shortens the life expectancy of its sufferers by an 
average of 23%. It most commonly affects men aged 20 to 40.
METHODS: A systematic search for pertinent literature retrieved 19 569 
publications, 485 of which were considered in the creation of this guideline, 
including 67 randomized controlled trials (RCTs). A consensus conference reached 
agreement on a total of 156 definitions and recommendations.
RESULTS: The identification of genetic risk factors for pancreatitis is now well 
established. The diagnosis is made mainly with ultrasonography of the pancreas; 
if the findings are uncertain, further studies can be performed, including 
endosonography and endosonographically assisted fine-needle puncture for the 
examination of small foci of disease. Computed tomography and MRI/magnetic 
resonance cholangiopancreatography are supplementary diagnostic methods. 
Endoscopic retrograde cholangiopancreatography is now used almost exclusively 
for treatment, rather than for diagnosis. 30% to 60% of patients develop 
complications of chronic pancreatitis, including pseudocysts, bile-duct 
stenosis, or medically intractable pain, which can be treated with an endoscopic 
or surgical intervention. Patients with steatorrhea, a pathological pancreatic 
function test, or clinical evidence of malabsorption should be given pancreatin 
supplementation. The head of the pancreas should be resected if it contains an 
inflammatory pseudotumor.
CONCLUSION: The management of patients with chronic pancreatitis requires close 
interdisciplinary collaboration, as it can be treated medically and 
endoscopically as well as surgically.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2013.0387
PMCID: PMC3698906
PMID: 23826027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 24;8(6):e67133. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067133. Print 
2013.

Life expectancy and death by diseases of the circulatory system in patients with 
bipolar disorder or schizophrenia in the Nordic countries.

Laursen TM(1), Wahlbeck K, HÃ¤llgren J, Westman J, Ãsby U, Alinaghizadeh H, 
Gissler M, Nordentoft M.

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Register-based Research, Aarhus University, Aarhus, 
Denmark. tml@ncrr.dk

OBJECTIVE: Excess mortality from diseases and medical conditions (natural death) 
in persons with psychiatric disorders has been extensively reported. Even in the 
Nordic countries with well-developed welfare systems, register based studies 
find evidence of an excess mortality. In recent years, cardiac mortality and 
death by diseases of the circulatory system has seen a decline in all the Nordic 
countries, but a recent paper indicates that women and men in Denmark, Finland, 
and Sweden, who had been hospitalised for a psychotic disorder, had a two to 
three-fold increased risk of dying from a cardiovascular disease. The aim of 
this study was to compare the mortality by diseases of the circulatory system 
among patients with bipolar disorder or schizophrenia in the three Nordic 
countries Denmark, Sweden, and Finland. Furthermore, the aim was to examine and 
compare life expectancy among these patients. Cause specific Standardized 
Mortality Rates (SMRs) were calculated for each specific subgroup of mortality. 
Life expectancy was calculated using Wiesler's method.
RESULTS: The SMR for bipolar disorder for diseases of the circulatory system was 
approximately 2 in all countries and both sexes. SMR was slightly higher for 
people with schizophrenia for both genders and in all countries, except for men 
in Denmark. Overall life expectancy was much lower among persons with bipolar 
disorder or schizophrenia, with life expectancy being from 11 to 20 years 
shorter.
CONCLUSION: Our data show that persons in the Nordic countries with 
schizophrenia or bipolar disorder have a substantially reduced life expectancy. 
An evaluation of the reasons for these increased mortality rates should be 
prioritized when planning healthcare in the coming years.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0067133
PMCID: PMC3691116
PMID: 23826212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


441. Int J Food Microbiol. 2013 Aug 16;166(1):34-47. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.05.029. Epub 2013 Jun 13.

Systematic review of foodborne burden of disease studies: quality assessment of 
data and methodology.

Haagsma JA(1), Polinder S, Stein CE, Havelaar AH.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC, Department of Public Health, P.O. Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, 
The Netherlands. j.haagsma@erasmusmc.nl

Burden of disease (BoD) studies aim to identify the public health impact of 
different health problems and risk factors. To assess BoD, detailed knowledge is 
needed on epidemiology, disability and mortality in the population under study. 
This is particularly challenging for foodborne disease, because of the multitude 
of causative agents and their health effects. The purpose of this study is to 
systematically review the methodology of foodborne BoD studies. Three key 
questions were addressed: 1) which data sources and approaches were used to 
assess mortality, morbidity and disability?, 2) which methodological choices 
were made to calculate Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALY), and 3) were 
uncertainty analyses performed and if so, how? Studies (1990-June 2012) in 
international peer-reviewed journals and grey literature were identified with 
main inclusion criteria being that the study assessed disability adjusted life 
years related to foodborne disease. Twenty-four studies met our inclusion 
criteria. To assess incidence or prevalence of foodborne disease in the 
population, four approaches could be distinguished, each using a different data 
source as a starting point, namely 1) laboratory-confirmed cases, 2) cohort or 
cross-sectional data, 3) syndrome surveillance data and 4) exposure data. 
Considerable variation existed in BoD methodology (e.g. disability weights, 
discounting, age-weighting). Almost all studies analyzed the effect of 
uncertainty as a result of possible imprecision in the parameter values. 
Awareness of epidemiological and methodological rigor between foodborne BoD 
studies using the DALY approach is a critical priority for advancing burden of 
disease studies. Harmonization of methodology that is used and of modeling 
techniques and high quality data can enlarge the detection of real variation in 
DALY outcomes between pathogens, between populations or over time. This 
harmonization can be achieved by identifying substantial data gaps and 
uncertainty and establish which sequelae of foodborne disease agents should be 
included in BoD calculations.

Copyright Â© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.05.029
PMID: 23827806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Int J Food Microbiol. 2013 Aug 16;166(1):54-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.06.018. Epub 2013 Jun 20.

Chitosan or rosemary oil treatments, singly or combined to increase turkey meat 
shelf-life.

Vasilatos GC(1), Savvaidis IN.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Food Chemistry and Food Microbiology, Department of Chemistry, 
University of Ioannina, Ioannina 45110, Greece.

In this study fresh turkey meat was packaged under vacuum and stored at 2Â°C. The 
following lots were used: T (control); stored under vacuum packaging (VP), T-RO; 
stored under VP, treated with rosemary oil 0.25% v/w, T-CH; stored under VP, 
treated with chitosan 1.5% w/v, and T-CH-RO; stored under VP, treated with 
chitosan 1.5% w/v and rosemary oil 0.25% v/w. Of the microbial microflora 
species examined, irrespective of treatment, lactic acid bacteria (LAB) 
