PMID: 23868138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


574. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Sep;31(9):807-22. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0076-z.

Cost-utility analysis of deferiprone for the treatment of β-thalassaemia 
patients with chronic iron overload: a UK perspective.

Bentley A(1), Gillard S, Spino M, Connelly J, Tricta F.

Author information:
(1)Abacus International, 6 Talisman Business Centre, Talisman Road, Bicester, 
Oxfordshire, OX26 6HR, UK. abentley@abacusint.com

Erratum in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Dec;31(12):1185-6.

BACKGROUND: Patients with β-thalassaemia major experience chronic iron overload 
due to regular blood transfusions. Chronic iron overload can be treated using 
iron-chelating therapies such as desferrioxamine (DFO), deferiprone (DFP) and 
deferasirox (DFX) monotherapy, or DFO-DFP combination therapy.
OBJECTIVES: This study evaluated the relative cost effectiveness of these 
regimens over a 5-year timeframe from a UK National Health Service (NHS) 
perspective, including personal and social services.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed to evaluate the cost effectiveness of 
the treatment regimens over 5 years. Based on published randomized controlled 
trial evidence, it was assumed that all four treatment regimens had a comparable 
effect on serum ferritin concentration (SFC) and liver iron concentration (LIC), 
and that DFP was more effective for reducing cardiac morbidity and mortality. 
Published utility scores for route of administration were used, with 
subcutaneously administered DFO assumed to incur a greater quality of life (QoL) 
burden than the oral chelators DFP and DFX. Healthcare resource use, drug costs 
(2010/2011 costs), and utilities associated with adverse events were also 
considered, with the effect of varying all parameters assessed in sensitivity 
analysis. Incremental costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were 
calculated for each treatment, with cost effectiveness expressed as incremental 
cost per QALY. Assumptions that DFP conferred no cardiac morbidity, mortality, 
or morbidity and mortality benefit were also explored in scenario analysis.
RESULTS: DFP was the dominant strategy in all scenarios modelled, providing 
greater QALY gains at a lower cost. Sensitivity analysis showed that DFP 
dominated all other treatments unless the QoL burden associated with the route 
of administration was greater for DFP than for DFO, which is unlikely to be the 
case. DFP had >99 % likelihood of being cost effective against all comparators 
at a willingness-to-pay threshold of £20,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: In this analysis, DFP appeared to be the most cost-effective 
treatment available for managing chronic iron overload in β-thalassaemia 
patients. Use of DFP in these patients could therefore result in substantial 
cost savings.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0076-z
PMCID: PMC3757270
PMID: 23868464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


575. J Neurovirol. 2013 Aug;19(4):314-27. doi: 10.1007/s13365-013-0177-7. Epub
2013  Jul 19.

Human immunodeficiency virus-associated depression: contributions of 
immuno-inflammatory, monoaminergic, neurodegenerative, and neurotrophic 
pathways.

Del Guerra FB(1), Fonseca JL, Figueiredo VM, Ziff EB, Konkiewitz EC.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Ciências da Saude, Universidade Federal da Grande Dourados 
Unidade II, Rodovia MS 162, Mato Grosso do Sul, Brazil.

In the era of greatly improved pharmacological treatment of HIV infection 
through highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART), HIV patients experience 
reduced viral loads, reduced opportunistic infections, increased CD4+ T cell 
count, and greater life expectancy. Although life expectancy is increased, 
patients often develop neurological disturbances that may persist for long 
periods, seriously jeopardizing quality of life and adherence to the medication 
protocols of HAART. For these reasons, HIV-associated neurological disorders 
have gained importance in both clinical and basic investigations of HIV 
infection. Depression is the most prevalent neuropsychiatric disorder among 
people living with HIV. In this review, we discuss how HIV can predispose 
infected individuals to depression by several interrelated mechanisms. These 
include inducing chronic elevation of cytokines through activation of microglia 
and astrocytes; decreasing monoaminergic function; inducing neurotoxicity, 
especially in dopaminergic neurons; and reducing brain-derived neurotrophic 
factor. These viral pathways interact with psychosocial factors to create the 
depressive state. HIV depression has a great impact on quality of life and 
implementation of antiretroviral therapy, and thus, recognition of these modes 
of action is significant for understanding HIV neuropathology and for selecting 
modalities for pharmacologic treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s13365-013-0177-7
PMID: 23868513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


576. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2014 Jan;158(1):28-35. doi: 10.1093/rpd/nct184. Epub
2013  Jul 17.

Radiation dose to premature new-borns in the Belgian neonatal intensive care 
units.

Dabin J(1), Struelens L, Vanhavere F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation protection, Dosimetry and Calibration, Belgian 
Nuclear Research Centre, 200 Boeretang, Mol 2400, Belgium.

In the neonatal intensive care units (NICU), premature new-borns may be exposed 
to important doses. Because of their increased radiosensitivity and longer life 
expectancy, dose optimisation is of importance. The present study aimed at 
evaluating the dose of the most common radiographs in the Belgian NICU. Entrance 
surface kerma (ESK) and kerma area product (KAP) were collected in 17 NICU 
(among 19 in Belgium). Median ESK ranged from 13 to 172 µGy and from 8 to 117 
µGy for chest and combined chest-abdomen radiographs, respectively; median KAP 
ranged from 1.4 to 14.2 mGy cm(2) and from 3.8 to 28.1 mGy cm(2) for chest and 
combined chest-abdomen radiographs, respectively. Those differences were due to 
large variations in the examination settings. Diagnostic reference levels (DRL) 
were set for chest and combined chest-abdomen radiographs. Though the radiograph 
dose was usually low, the cumulative dose per stay could be high. The wide, 
intercentre differences indicate that there is scope for dose reduction. The use 
of DRL should contribute to achieve this object.

DOI: 10.1093/rpd/nct184
PMID: 23868880 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


577. Eur Heart J. 2014 Jan;35(2):98-105. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/eht207. Epub 2013
Jul  18.

Quarterly vs. yearly clinical follow-up of remotely monitored recipients of 
prophylactic implantable cardioverter-defibrillators: results of the REFORM 
trial.

Hindricks G(1), Elsner C, Piorkowski C, Taborsky M, Geller JC, Schumacher B, 
Bytesnik J, Kottkamp H.

Author information:
(1)Internal Medicine and Cardiology Division, University of Leipzig Heart 
Center, Strümpellstrasse 39, Leipzig D-04289, Germany.

AIMS: The rapidly increasing number of patients with implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillators (ICD) places a large burden on follow-up providers. 
This study investigated the possibility of longer in-office follow-up intervals 
in primary prevention ICD patients under remote monitoring with automatic daily 
data transmissions from the implant memory.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Conducted in 155 ICD recipients with MADIT II indications, 
the study compared the burden of scheduled and unscheduled ICD follow-up visits, 
quality of life (SF-36), and clinical outcomes in patients randomized to either 
3- or 12-month follow-up intervals in the period between 3 and 27 months after 
implantation. Remote monitoring (Biotronik Home Monitoring) was used equally in 
all patients. In contrast to previous clinical studies, no calendar-based remote 
data checks were performed between scheduled in-office visits. Compared with the 
3-month follow-up interval, the 12-month interval resulted in a minor increase 
in the number of unscheduled follow-ups (0.64 vs. 0.27 per patient-year; P = 
0.03) and in a major reduction in the total number of in-office ICD follow-ups 
(1.60 vs. 3.85 per patient-year; P < 0.001). No significant difference was found 
in mortality, hospitalization rate, or hospitalization length during the 2-year 
observation period, but more patients were lost to follow-up in the 12-month 
group (10 vs. 3; P = 0.04). The SF-36 scores favoured the 12-month intervals in 
the domains 'social functioning' and 'mental health'.
CONCLUSION: In prophylactic ICD recipients under automatic daily remote 
monitoring, the extension of the 3-month in-office follow-up interval to 12 
months appeared to safely reduce the ICD follow-up burden during 27 months after 
implantation.
CLINICALTRIALSGOV IDENTIFIER: NCT00401466 
(http://www.clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/show/NCT00401466).

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/eht207
PMCID: PMC3882723
PMID: 23868932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


578. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 15;8(7):e66454. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066454. Print 
2013.

A standardized vascular disease health check in europe: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Schuetz CA(1), Alperin P, Guda S, van Herick A, Cariou B, Eddy D, Gumprecht J, 
Nicolucci A, Schwarz P, Wareham NJ, Witte DR, Smith U.

Author information:
(1)Archimedes, Inc., San Francisco, California, USA. 
andy.schuetz@archimedesmodel.com

BACKGROUND: No clinical trials have assessed the effects or cost-effectiveness 
of health check strategies to detect and manage vascular disease. We used a 
mathematical model to estimate the cost-effectiveness of several health check 
strategies in six European countries.
METHODS: We used country-specific data from Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, 
Poland, and the United Kingdom to generate simulated populations of individuals 
aged 40-75 eligible for health checks in those countries (e.g. individuals 
without a previous diagnosis of diabetes, myocardial infarction, stroke, or 
serious chronic kidney disease). For each country, we used the Archimedes model 
to compare seven health check strategies consisting of assessments for diabetes, 
hypertension, lipids, and smoking. For patients diagnosed with vascular disease, 
treatment was simulated in a standard manner. We calculated the effects of each 
strategy on the incidence of type 2 diabetes, major adverse cardiovascular 
events (MACE), and microvascular complications in addition to quality of life, 
costs, and cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY).
RESULTS: Compared with current care, health checks reduced the incidence of MACE 
(6-17 events prevented per 1000 people screened) and diabetes related 
microvasular complications (5-11 events prevented per 1000 people screened), and 
increased QALYs (31-59 discounted QALYs) over 30 years, in all countries. The 
cost per QALY of offering a health check to all individuals in the study cohort 
ranged from €14903 (France) to cost saving (Poland). Pre-screening the 
population and offering health checks only to higher risk individuals lowered 
the cost per QALY. Pre-screening on the basis of obesity had a cost per QALY of 
€10200 (France) or less, and pre-screening with a non-invasive risk score was 
similar.
CONCLUSIONS: A vascular disease health check would likely be cost effective at 
30 years in Denmark, France, Germany, Italy, Poland, and the United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0066454
PMCID: PMC3712021
PMID: 23869204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: CAS, PA, SG, AvH, and DE 
are employees of Archimedes Inc, and declare financial support for the submitted 
work from Novo Nordisk Company. BC has served on the advisory panel for Novo 
Nordisk, and received research support from Novo Nordisk. AN has board 
membership for Merck Sharp & Dohme, and Novartis, does consultancy of Novo 
Nordisk, and has research grants from Novo Nordisk, Merck Sharp & Dohme, Eli 
Lilly, and Sanofi Aventis. PS is a board member of EMPERRA GmbH. The remaining 
authors declare no support from any organization for the submitted work. This 
does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing 
data and materials.


579. Popul Stud (Camb). 2013;67(3):309-22. doi: 10.1080/00324728.2013.809140.
Epub  2013 Jul 22.

A re-analysis of the long-term effects on life expectancy of the Great Finnish 
Famine of 1866-68.

Doblhammer G(1), van den Berg GJ, Lumey LH.

Author information:
(1)a University of Rostock.

The results of studies exploring the long-term consequences of famine during 
foetal or infant development are inconsistent. We tested the hypothesis that 
selection forces occurring during a famine change the distribution of frailty in 
the affected cohorts, possibly hiding negative long-term effects. Using 
mortality data for Finland, gathered from the Human Mortality Database, we 
explored the effect of being born during the Great Finnish Famine of 1866-68 by 
comparing mortality at age 60 and over for the 1850-89 births, taking into 
account unobserved cohort heterogeneity. Contemporaneous Swedish cohorts, 
unexposed to the famine, were used as an additional control group. When cohort 
heterogeneity is accounted for, a lower life expectancy at age 60 for male 
cohorts in Finland born during the famine is observed. The results for females 
are less conclusive. No substantial changes are seen in the Swedish cohorts. In 
order to provide consistent estimates of the long-run effects of famines, 
selection forces need to be considered.

DOI: 10.1080/00324728.2013.809140
PMCID: PMC3827664
PMID: 23869756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


580. J Invest Surg. 2013 Aug;26(4):167-79. doi: 10.3109/08941939.2013.808461.

History of antibiotics: from fluoroquinolones to daptomycin (Part 2).

Zaffiri L(1), Gardner J, Toledo-Pereyra LH.

Author information:
(1)Western Michigan University School of Medicine, Kalamazoo, Michigan, USA.

In the Modern Era, physicians attested to the reciprocal influence among a 
technologically advanced society, rapid scientific progresses in medicine, and 
the need for new antimicrobials. The results of these changes were not only seen 
in the prolongation of life expectancy but also by the emergence of new 
pathogens. We first observed the advent of Gram-negative bacteria as a major 
source of nosocomial infections. The treatment of these microorganisms was 
complicated by the appearance and spread of drug resistance. We first focused on 
the development of two major classes of antimicrobials still currently used for 
the treatment of Gram-negative bacteria, such as fluoroquinolones and 
carbapenemes. Subsequently, we directed our attention to the growth of the 
incidence of infections due to Methicillin-Resistant Staphylococcus aureus 
(MRSA). Although the first MRSA was already isolated in 1961, the treatment of 
this new pathogen has been based on the efficacy of vancomycin for more than 
four decades. Only in the last 15 yr, we assisted in the development of new 
antimicrobial agents such as linezolid and daptomycin.

DOI: 10.3109/08941939.2013.808461
PMID: 23869821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


581. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Jul;17(29):1-386. doi: 10.3310/hta17290.

Systematic review of the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness, and 
economic evaluation, of denosumab for the treatment of bone metastases from 
solid tumours.

Ford J(1), Cummins E, Sharma P, Elders A, Stewart F, Johnston R, Royle P, Jones 
R, Mulatero C, Todd R, Mowatt G.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

BACKGROUND: Denosumab offers an alternative, or additional, treatment for the 
prevention of skeletal-related events (SREs) in patients with bone metastases 
from solid tumours.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this review was to assess the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of denosumab, within its licensed indication, for the 
prevention of SREs in patients with bone metastases from solid tumours.
DATA SOURCES: Databases searched were MEDLINE (1948 to April 2011), EMBASE (1980 
to March 2011), The Cochrane Library (all sections; Issue 1, 2011) and Web of 
Science with Conference Proceedings (1970 to May 2011).
REVIEW METHODS: Only randomised controlled trials (RCTs) assessing denosumab, 
bisphosphonates (BPs) or best supportive care (BSC) in patients with bone 
metastases were included. Systematic reviews and observational studies were used 
for safety and quality-of-life assessments. Study quality was assessed using the 
Cochrane risk of bias tool. Studies suitable for meta-analysis were synthesised 
using network meta-analysis (NMA). A systematic review was conducted for cost, 
quality-of-life and cost-effectiveness studies. The results of this informed the 
cost-utility modelling. This principally estimated the cost-effectiveness of 
denosumab relative to zoledronic acid for when BPs are currently recommended and 
relative to BSC when BPs are not recommended or are contraindicated.
RESULTS: A literature search identified 39 studies (eight suitable for NMA). 
Denosumab was effective in delaying time to first SRE and reducing the risk of 
multiple SREs compared with zoledronic acid. Generally speaking, denosumab was 
similar to zoledronic acid for quality of life, pain, overall survival and 
safety. The NMA demonstrated that denosumab was more effective in delaying SREs 
than placebo, but was limited by numerous uncertainties. Cost-utility modelling 
results for denosumab relative to zoledronic acid were driven by the 
availability of the patient access scheme (PAS) for denosumab. Without this, 
denosumab was not estimated to be cost-effective compared with zoledronic acid. 
With it, the cost-effectiveness ranged between dominance for breast and prostate 
cancer, to between £5400 and £15,300 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for 
other solid tumours (OSTs) including non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) and 
£12,700 per QALY for NSCLC. Owing to small patient gains estimated, the 
cost-effectiveness of denosumab was very sensitive to the zoledronic acid price. 
Denosumab was not estimated to be cost-effective compared with BSC.
LIMITATIONS: Only subgroup data were available for denosumab for NSCLC, and OSTs 
excluding NSCLC. The NMA was subject to numerous uncertainties. Owing to small 
patient gains estimated, the cost-effectiveness of denosumab was very sensitive 
to the zoledronic acid price.
CONCLUSION: Denosumab, compared with zoledronic acid and placebo, is effective 
in delaying SREs, but is similar with regard to quality of life and pain. 
Cost-effectiveness showed that without the PAS denosumab was not estimated to be 
cost-effective relative to either zoledronic acid or BSC. With the PAS, 
denosumab was estimated to be cost-effective relative to zoledronic acid but not 
BSC.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO number CRD42011001418.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17290
PMCID: PMC4780939
PMID: 23870108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


582. J Hematol Oncol. 2013 Jul 19;6:54. doi: 10.1186/1756-8722-6-54.

Biomarkers for determining the prognosis in chronic myelogenous leukemia.

Sweet K, Zhang L, Pinilla-Ibarz J.

The introduction of BCR-ABL1 tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) for treatment of 
chronic myelogenous leukemia in chronic phase (CML-CP) has revolutionized 
therapy, altering the outcome from one of shortened life expectancy to long-term 
survival. With over 10 years of long-term treatment with imatinib and several 
years of experience with the next generation of TKIs, including nilotinib, 
dasatinib, bosutinib, and ponatinib, it is becoming clear that many clinical 
parameters have great impact on the prognosis of patients with CML. Emerging 
novel gene expression profiling and molecular techniques also provide new 
insights into CML pathogenesis and have identified potential prognostic markers 
and therapeutic targets. This review presents the supporting data and discusses 
how certain clinical characteristics at diagnosis, the depth of early response, 
the presence of certain kinase domain mutations, and additional molecular 
changes serve as prognostic factors that may guide individualized treatment 
decisions for patients with CML-CP.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-8722-6-54
PMCID: PMC3737033
PMID: 23870290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


583. Injury. 2013 Dec;44(12):1733-44. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2013.06.023. Epub
2013  Jul 18.

Comprehensive classification of fragility fractures of the pelvic ring: 
Recommendations for surgical treatment.

Rommens PM(1), Hofmann A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma Surgery, Centre for Muskuloskeletal Surgery, University 
Medical Centre Mainz, Mainz, Germany. Electronic address: 
pol.rommens@unimedizin-mainz.de.

Due to the increasing life expectancy, orthopaedic surgeons are more and more 
often confronted with fragility fractures of the pelvis (FFPs). These kinds of 
fractures are the result of a low-energy impact or they may even occur 
spontaneously in patients with severe osteoporosis. Due to some distinct 
differences, the established classifications for pelvic ring lesions in younger 
adults do not fully reflect the clinical and morphological criteria of FFPs. 
Most FFPs are minimally displaced and do not require surgical therapy. However, 
in some patients, an insidious progress of bone damage leads to increasing 
displacement, nonunion and persisting instability. Therefore, new concepts for 
surgical treatment have to be developed to address the functional needs of the 
elderly patients. Based on an analysis of 245 consecutive patients with FFPs, we 
propose a novel classification system for this condition. This classification is 
based on morphological criteria and it corresponds with the degree of 
instability. Also in the elderly, these criteria are the most important for the 
decision on the type of treatment as well as type and extent of surgery. The 
estimation of the degree of instability is based on radiological and clinical 
findings. The classification gives also hints for treatment strategies, which 
may vary between minimally invasive techniques and complex surgical 
reconstructions.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2013.06.023
PMID: 23871193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


584. Behav Brain Res. 2013 Sep 15;253:95-102. doi: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.07.020.
Epub  2013 Jul 16.

Nicotine increases lifespan and rescues olfactory and motor deficits in a 
Drosophila model of Parkinson's disease.

Chambers RP(1), Call GB, Meyer D, Smith J, Techau JA, Pearman K, Buhlman LM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Sciences, College of Health Sciences, Arizona 
College of Osteopathic Medicine, Midwestern University, Glendale, AZ 85308, 
United States.

Drosophila melanogaster is an attractive model of familial Parkinson's disease, 
as flies with loss-of-function mutations of the parkin gene exhibit many 
pathologies observed in PD patients. Progressive motor deficits found in 
homozygous parkin mutants seem to result from mitochondrial pathology that 
causes indirect flight muscle and dopaminergic neuronal degeneration [1,2]. We 
have found that heterozygous parkin mutants have decreased lifespan, generally 
progressive motor dysfunction and olfactory deficits compared to control flies, 
suggesting that mutation of this gene produces a dominant phenotype. Tobacco 
smokers are dose-dependently less likely to develop PD [3,4]; subsequent in 
vitro and in vivo studies show that nicotine is protective in models of sporadic 
PD [6]. Literature addressing the potential protection by nicotine in Parkin 
loss-of-function models spans limited concentrations and selected time points in 
the organism's lifespan. We have found that parkin heterozygotes have late-onset 
climbing and flying deficits as well as decreased viability and olfactory 
deficits that precede motor defects. While chronic nicotine exposure decreases 
lifespan and climbing and flying abilities in control flies, it can improve 
viability and flying capability as well as rescue climbing and olfactory 
deficits in parkin heterozygotes. Dopaminergic neurons are spared in the parkin 
heterozygote, perhaps because this phenotype is less severe than in the 
homozygous parkin mutants. Nicotine pretreatment may be protective in sporadic 
PD patients and models; however, timely diagnosis remains to be an obstacle. Our 
results suggest that nicotine also may be protective in familial PD patients, 
who can be easily identified before motor symptoms occur.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbr.2013.07.020
PMID: 23871228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


585. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2013 Sep;14(9):710.e5 -11. doi:
10.1016/j.jamda.2013.05.023.  Epub 2013 Jul 18.

A randomized trial of heart failure disease management in skilled nursing 
facilities: design and rationale.

Boxer RS(1), Dolansky MA, Bodnar CA, Singer ME, Albert JM, Gravenstein S.

Author information:
(1)Harrington Heart and Vascular Institute, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH. Electronic address: rebecca.boxer@case.edu.

BACKGROUND: Heart failure (HF) disease management can improve health outcomes 
for older community dwelling patients with heart failure. HF disease management 
has not been studied in skilled nursing facilities, a major site of transitional 
care for older adults.
METHODS AND ANTICIPATED RESULTS: The objective of this trial is to investigate 
if a HF- disease management program (HF-DMP) in skilled nursing facilities 
(SNF)s will decrease all-cause rehospitalizations for the first 60 days post-SNF 
admission. The trial is a randomized cluster trial to be conducted in 12 
for-profit SNF in the greater Cleveland area. The study population is inclusive 
of patients with HF regardless of ejection fraction but excludes those patients 
on dialysis and with a life expectancy of 6 months or less. The HF-DMP includes 
7 elements considered standard of care for patients with HF documentation of 
left ventricular function, tracking of weight and symptoms, medication 
titration, discharge instructions, 7-day follow-up appointment post-SNF 
discharge, and patient education. The HF-DMP is conducted by a research nurse 
tasked with adhering to each element of the program and regularly audited to 
maintain fidelity of the program. Additional outcomes include health status, 
self-care management, and discharge destination.
CONCLUSIONS: The SNF-Connect Trial is the first trial of its kind to assess if a 
HF-DMP will improve outcomes for patients in SNFs. This trial will provide 
evidence on the effectiveness of HF-DMP to improve outcomes for older frail HF 
patients undergoing postacute rehabilitation.

Copyright © 2013 American Medical Directors Association, Inc. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2013.05.023
PMCID: PMC3904547
PMID: 23871475 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest All authors - none


586. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2013 Nov;94(11):2203-9. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2013.07.005.  Epub 2013 Jul 16.

Long-term disability and survival in traumatic brain injury: results from the 
National Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research Model Systems.

Brooks JC(1), Strauss DJ, Shavelle RM, Paculdo DR, Hammond FM, Harrison-Felix 
CL.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, CA. Electronic address: 
Brooks@LifeExpectancy.org.

OBJECTIVES: To document long-term survival in 1-year survivors of traumatic 
brain injury (TBI); to compare the use of the Disability Rating Scale (DRS) and 
FIM as factors in the estimation of survival probabilities; and to investigate 
the effect of time since injury and secular trends in mortality.
DESIGN: Cohort study of 1-year survivors of TBI followed up to 20 years 
postinjury. Statistical methods include standardized mortality ratio, 
Kaplan-Meier survival curve, proportional hazards regression, and person-year 
logistic regression.
SETTING: Postdischarge from rehabilitation units.
PARTICIPANTS: Population-based sample of persons (N=7228) who were admitted to a 
TBI Model Systems facility and survived at least 1 year postinjury. These 
persons contributed 32,505 person-years, with 537 deaths, over the 1989 to 2011 
study period.
INTERVENTIONS: Not applicable.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: Survival.
RESULTS: Survival was poorer than that of the general population (standardized 
mortality ratio=2.1; 95% confidence interval, 1.9-2.3). Age, sex, and functional 
disability were significant risk factors for mortality (P<.001). FIM- and 
DRS-based proportional hazards survival models had comparable predictive 
performance (C index: .80 vs .80; Akaike information criterion: 11,005 vs 
11,015). Time since injury and current calendar year were not significant 
predictors of long-term survival (both P>.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term survival prognosis in TBI depends on age, sex, and 
disability. FIM and DRS are useful prognostic measures with comparable 
statistical performance. Age- and disability-specific mortality rates in TBI 
have not declined over the last 20 years. A survival prognosis calculator is 
available online (http://www.LifeExpectancy.org/tbims.shtml).

Copyright © 2013 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2013.07.005
PMID: 23872079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


587. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2013 Aug 7;105(15):1078-85. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djt182.
Epub  2013 Jul 19.

Cost-effectiveness of filgrastim and pegfilgrastim as primary prophylaxis 
against febrile neutropenia in lymphoma patients.

Lathia N(1), Isogai PK, De Angelis C, Smith TJ, Cheung M, Mittmann N, Hoch JS, 
Walker S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of Toronto, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada. nina.lathia@sunnybrook.ca

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2013 Aug 7;105(15):1072-3.

BACKGROUND: Febrile neutropenia is a serious toxicity of cancer chemotherapy 
that is usually treated in hospital. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of 
filgrastim and pegfilgrastim as primary prophylaxis against febrile neutropenia 
in diffuse large B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) patients undergoing chemotherapy.
METHODS: We used a Markov model that followed patients through induction 
chemotherapy to compare the three prophylaxis strategies: 1) no primary 
prophylaxis against febrile neutropenia; 2) primary prophylaxis with 10 days of 
filgrastim therapy; and 3) primary prophylaxis with a single dose of 
pegfilgrastim. The target population was a hypothetical cohort of 64-year-old 
men and women with DLBCL. Data sources included published literature and current 
clinical practice. The analysis was conducted from a publicly funded health-care 
system perspective. The main outcome measures included costs, quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, costs associated with no primary 
prophylaxis, primary prophylaxis with 10 days of filgrastim, and primary 
prophylaxis with pegfilgrastim were CaD $7314, CaD $13947, and CaD $16290, 
respectively. The QALYs associated with the three strategies were 0.2004, 
0.2015, and 0.2024, respectively. The ICER for the filgrastim vs no primary 
prophylaxis strategy was CaD $5796000 per QALY. The ICER for the pegfilgrastim 
vs filgrastim primary prophylaxis strategy was CaD $2611000 per QALY. All 
one-way sensitivity analyses yielded ICERs greater than CaD $400000 per QALY. 
Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves show that 20.0% of iterations are 
cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold of CaD $1595000 for the 
filgrastim strategy and CaD $561000 for the pegfilgrastim strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary prophylaxis against febrile neutropenia with either 
filgrastim or pegfilgrastim is not cost-effective in DLBCL patients.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djt182
PMID: 23873405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. PLoS One. 2013 Jul 17;8(7):e68725. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068725. Print 
2013.

Using energetic models to investigate the survival and reproduction of beaked 
whales (family Ziphiidae).

New LF(1), Moretti DJ, Hooker SK, Costa DP, Simmons SE.

Author information:
(1)US Marine Mammal Commission, Bethesda, Maryland, USA. lnew@usgs.gov

Mass stranding of several species of beaked whales (family Ziphiidae) associated 
with exposure to anthropogenic sounds has raised concern for the conservation of 
these species. However, little is known about the species' life histories, prey 
or habitat requirements. Without this knowledge, it becomes difficult to assess 
the effects of anthropogenic sound, since there is no way to determine whether 
the disturbance is impacting the species' physical or environmental 
requirements. Here we take a bioenergetics approach to address this gap in our 
knowledge, as the elusive, deep-diving nature of beaked whales has made it hard 
to study these effects directly. We develop a model for Ziphiidae linking 
feeding energetics to the species' requirements for survival and reproduction, 
since these life history traits would be the most likely to be impacted by 
non-lethal disturbances. Our models suggest that beaked whale reproduction 
requires energy dense prey, and that poor resource availability would lead to an 
extension of the inter-calving interval. Further, given current information, it 
seems that some beaked whale species require relatively high quality habitat in 
order to meet their requirements for survival and reproduction. As a result, 
even a small non-lethal disturbance that results in displacement of whales from 
preferred habitats could potentially impact a population if a significant 
proportion of that population was affected. We explored the impact of varying 
ecological parameters and model assumptions on survival and reproduction, and 
find that calf and fetus survival appear more readily affected than the survival 
of adult females.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068725
PMCID: PMC3714291
PMID: 23874737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


589. Rev Med Suisse. 2013 Jun 19;9(391):1305-11.

[Management of the carotid artery stenosis].

[Article in French]

Déglise S(1), Dubuis C, Mosimann P, Saucy F, Engelberger S, Hirt L, Michel P, 
Corpataux JM.

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Thoracique et Vasculaire Division de Chirurgie 
Vasculaire, CHUV, Lausanne. sebastien.deglise@chuv.ch

In the western world, the carotid-artery stenosis is one of the major causes of 
ischemic stroke in elderly people. The principal therapeutic indication is a 
symptomatic stenosis > 50% in the first two weeks and the surgical approach has 
shown the best results. Despite inferior results to carotid endarterectomy in 
terms of post-operative rate of stroke and/or death, except for young patients, 
carotid stenting remains the best choice in patients at high surgical risk. The 
best medical treatment, consisting in correction of cardiovascular risk factors, 
statin therapy and anti-aggregation led to a drastic reduction in the annual 
rate of stroke associated to carotid stenosis and thus limited the surgical 
intervention in asymptomatic patient to men with a life expectancy of at least 5 
years and a stenosis > 70%.

PMID: 23875259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. Inhal Toxicol. 2013 Jul;25(8):461-79. doi: 10.3109/08958378.2013.804610.

Inferring frail life expectancies in Chicago from daily fluctuations in elderly 
mortality.

Murray CJ(1), Lipfert FW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Houston , Houston, TX , USA.

Comment in
    Inhal Toxicol. 2016 Sep;28(11):481-3.
    Inhal Toxicol. 2017 Feb;29(3):93-95.

Susceptible sub-populations with existing disease have exhibited stronger 
relationships between air quality and mortality in time-series studies, but 
their associated life expectancies have largely been overlooked. Murray and 
Nelson developed a new time-series model that estimated a small unobserved 
(frail) sub-population and their resulting life expectancies in Philadelphia, 
including environment relationships. As a further example in a different 
geographic area, we used this model with 1987-2000 daily mortality data in 
Chicago and found a stable frail population at risk of ∼900 persons with a mean 
life expectancy of ∼11 days; fewer than two daily deaths were associated with 
air pollution. We considered daily concentrations of CO, NO₂, O₃, PM₁₀ and SO₂, 
and found PM₁₀ and O₃ to have stronger associations with frail mortality. Our 
estimates of life expectancy and air pollution and temperature relationships are 
similar to those found in other studies that used different methods. Temperature 
was more important than air pollution during the 1995 heat wave, when mortality 
risks increased dramatically after 2 d exposure and life expectancies decreased 
to 3-5 d. Modeling this event separately had substantial effects on lagged 
mortality--air pollution relationships and the population at risk. The premises 
of the Murray-Nelson model were supported by simultaneously considering an 
additional subgroup of non-frail individuals; they contributed only ∼1% of total 
elderly deaths. We conclude that frail life expectancies estimated by the 
Murray-Nelson model are robust, and that under these conditions non-frail 
persons have little risk of acute mortality, with or without contributions from 
air pollution.

DOI: 10.3109/08958378.2013.804610
PMID: 23876071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


591. Ann Phys Rehabil Med. 2013 Sep;56(6):443-54. doi:
10.1016/j.rehab.2013.06.002.  Epub 2013 Jun 24.

Evolution of life expectancy of patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy at AFM 
Yolaine de Kepper centre between 1981 and 2011.

Kieny P(1), Chollet S, Delalande P, Le Fort M, Magot A, Pereon Y, Perrouin Verbe 
B.

Author information:
(1)Service de MPR neurologique, hôpital Saint-Jacques, CHU de Nantes, 85, rue 
Saint-Jacques, 44093 Nantes cedex 1, France; Centre AFM Yolaine de Kepper, 49170 
Saint-Georges-Sur-Loire, France; Centre de référence des maladies 
neuromusculaires rares Nantes Angers, CHU de Nantes, 44093 Nantes cedex 1, 
France. Electronic address: pierre.kieny@orange.fr.

OBJECTIVES: Retrospective study over the last 30 years of life expectancy in 
patients suffering from Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Analysis of the role 
of ventilatory assistance and causes of death.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: One hundred and nineteen adult DMD patients were hosted 
during 1981 to 2011 at AFM Yolaine de Kepper centre, Saint-Georges-sur-Loire, 
France. Patients' life expectancy was calculated using Kaplan-Meier model.
RESULTS: Life expectancy without or with ventilatory assistance was 22.16 and 
36.23 years, respectively. Similarly, life expectancy of patients born from 1970 
(mostly with ventilatory assistance) was 40.95 years old from 1970 and 25.77 
years old before 1970. Causes of death changed. Cardiac origins of death have 
increased from 8% to 44%.
CONCLUSION: Ventilator assistance, in this study mostly through tracheotomy 
prolongs by more than 15 years life expectancy of DMD patients. It allows 
conservation of a satisfactory quality of life, and should be systematically 
proposed to patients.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rehab.2013.06.002
PMID: 23876223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Crit Care. 2013 Jul 22;17(4):R144. doi: 10.1186/cc12823.

Incidence, life expectancy and prognostic factors in cancer patients under 
prolonged mechanical ventilation: a nationwide analysis of 5,138 cases during 
1998-2007.

Shih CY, Hung MC, Lu HM, Chen L, Huang SJ, Wang JD.

Comment in
    Crit Care. 2013;17(5):189.

INTRODUCTION: This study is aimed at determining the incidence, survival rate, 
life expectancy, quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) and prognostic factors 
in patients with cancer in different organ systems undergoing prolonged 
mechanical ventilation (PMV).
METHODS: We used data from the National Health Insurance Research Database of 
Taiwan from 1998 to 2007 and linked it with the National Mortality Registry to 
ascertain mortality. Subjects who received PMV, defined as having undergone 
mechanical ventilation continuously for longer than 21 days, were enrolled. The 
incidence of cancer patients requiring PMV was calculated, with the exception of 
patients with multiple cancers. The life expectancies and QALE of patients with 
different types of cancer were estimated. Quality-of-life data were taken from a 
sample of 142 patients who received PMV. A multivariable proportional hazards 
model was constructed to assess the effect of different prognostic factors, 
including age, gender, type of cancer, metastasis, comorbidities and hospital 
levels.
RESULTS: Among 9,011 cancer patients receiving mechanical ventilation for more 
than 7 days, 5,138 undergoing PMV had a median survival of 1.37 months 
(interquartile range [IQR], 0.50 to 4.57) and a 1-yr survival rate of 14.3% (95% 
confidence interval [CI], 13.3% to 15.3%). The incidence of PMV was 10.4 per 100 
ICU admissions. Head and neck cancer patients seemed to survive the longest. The 
overall life expectancy was 1.21 years, with estimated QALE ranging from 0.17 to 
0.37 quality-adjusted life years for patients with poor and partial cognition, 
respectively. Cancer of liver (hazard ratio [HR], 1.55; 95% CI, 1.34 to 1.78), 
lung (HR, 1.45; 95% CI, 1.30 to 1.41) and metastasis (HR, 1.53; 95% CI, 1.42 to 
1.65) were found to predict shorter survival independently.
CONCLUSIONS: Cancer patients requiring PMV had poor long-term outcomes. 
Palliative care should be considered early in these patients, especially when 
metastasis has occurred.

DOI: 10.1186/cc12823
PMCID: PMC4057492
PMID: 23876301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Chemosphere. 2013 Oct;93(6):1005-8. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2013.05.069.
Epub  2013 Jul 19.

Hormesis and longevity with tannins: free of charge or cost-intensive?

Saul N(1), Pietsch K, Stürzenbaum SR, Menzel R, Steinberg CE.

Author information:
(1)Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, Department of Biology, Laboratory of 
Freshwater & Stress Ecology, Späthstraße 80/81, 12437 Berlin, Germany. 
Electronic address: nadines1976@aol.com.

Hormetic lifespan extension is, for obvious reasons, beneficial to an 
individual. But is this effect really cost-neutral? To answer this question, 
four tannic polyphenols were tested on the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans. All 
were able to extend the lifespan, but only some in a hormetic fashion. 
Additional life trait variables including stress resistance, reproductive 
behavior, growth, and physical fitness were observed during the exposure to the 
most life extending concentrations. These traits represent the quality of life 
and the population fitness, being the most important parameters of a hormetic 
treatment besides lifespan. Indeed, it emerged that each life-extension is 
accompanied by a constraining effect in at least one other endpoint, for example 
growth, mobility, stress resistance, or reproduction. Thus, in this context, 
longevity could not be considered to be attained for free and therefore it is 
likely that other hormetic benefits may also incur cost-intensive and 
unpredictable side-effects.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2013.05.069
PMID: 23876505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


594. Hum Immunol. 2013 Nov;74(11):1486-90. doi: 10.1016/j.humimm.2013.07.001.
Epub  2013 Jul 19.

Moving beyond HLA: a review of nHLA antibodies in organ transplantation.

Sigdel TK(1), Sarwal MM.

Author information:
(1)California Pacific Medical Center, Research Institute, San Francisco, CA, 
USA.

Given the finite graft life expectancy of HLA identical organ transplants and 
the recognition of humoral graft injury in the absence of donor directed 
anti-HLA antibodies, the clinical impact of antibodies against non-HLA (nHLA) 
antigens in transplant injury is being increasingly recognized. The recognition 
of the impact of nHLA antigen discrepancies between donor and recipient on 
transplant outcomes is timely given the advances in rapid and lower cost 
sequencing methods that can soon provide complete maps of all recipient and 
donor HLA and nHLA mismatch data. In this review, we present a summary of recent 
reports evaluating the role of nHLA antibodies and their relevance to the field 
of organ transplantation.

Copyright © 2013 American Society for Histocompatibility and Immunogenetics. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humimm.2013.07.001
PMCID: PMC5221517
PMID: 23876683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Pain Physician. 2013 Jul-Aug;16(4):E397-404.

Percutaneous vertebral augmentation assisted by PEEK implant in painful 
osteolytic vertebral metastasis involving the vertebral wall: experience on 40 
patients.

Anselmetti GC(1), Manca A, Tutton S, Chiara G, Kelekis A, Facchini FR, Russo F, 
Regge D, Montemurro F.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Cancer Research and Treatment, Turin, Italy. 
gc.anselmetti@fastwebnet.it

BACKGROUND: Vertebral metastases are associated with significant pain, 
disability, and morbidity. Open surgery for fracture stabilization is often 
inappropriate in this cancer population due to a poor risk-benefit profile, 
particularly if life expectancy is short. Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty are 
appealing adjunctive procedures in patients with malignancy for alleviation of 
intractable pain. However, these patients have a higher risk of serious 
complications, notably cement extravasation.
STUDY DESIGN: We prospectively evaluated clinical results of 
polyetheretherketone (PEEK) implant (Kiva) assisted vertebroplasty performed in 
malignant painful osteolytic lesions at risk for cement extravasation due to 
vertebral wall involvement.
SETTING: Department of Interventional Radiology, Institute for Cancer Research 
and Treatment, Candiolo, Turin, Italy
METHODS: Forty patients (22 women; mean age 66.8 ± 12.4), suffering from a 
painful spine malignancy with vertebral wall involvement not responding to 
conventional therapies and without surgical indications, underwent vertebral 
augmentation with Kiva intravertebral implant for pain palliation. The procedure 
was performed with moderate sedation and local anesthesia under combined digital 
fluoroscopy and computed tomography guidance. After the coil-shaped PEEK implant 
was deployed within the vertebral lesion, bone cement was injected under 
continuous digital fluoroscopic control. Patients were discharged from the 
hospital the next procedural day. The Visual Analog Scale (VAS) for pain, 
Oswestry Disability Index (ODI), analgesic requirement, and use of external 
brace support were evaluated to determine efficacy. The primary end-point was 
safety and efficacy at one month after the procedure. However, all the patients 
were scheduled to be followed-up at month 3, 6, and every 6 months thereafter. 
Follow-up was prospectively evaluated in all patients after Kiva with clinical 
interviews. The Institution's Internal Review Board approved this study.
RESULTS: Median pre-treatment VAS of 10 (range 6 - 10) significantly (P < 0.001) 
dropped to one (range 0 - 3), with all patients achieving a clinically relevant 
benefit on pain at one month. Differences in pre- and post-treatment analgesic 
therapy were significant (P < 0.001). All patients no longer use an external 
brace after Kiva. In 7 out of 43 (16.3%) treated vertebrae a bone cement leakage 
was detected.
LIMITATIONS: This is a not randomized study. Participants were limited to 40 
patients.
CONCLUSION: The Kiva System potentially represents a novel and effective 
minimally invasive treatment option for patients suffering from severe pain due 
to osteolytic vertebral metastases.

PMID: 23877463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Int J Public Health. 2013 Oct;58(5):683-93. doi: 10.1007/s00038-013-0484-z.
Epub  2013 Jul 23.

Systematic review of reducing population meat consumption to reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions and obtain health benefits: effectiveness and models assessments.

Yip CS(1), Crane G, Karnon J.

Author information:
(1)The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, SA, Australia, 
sauchun.yip@adelaide.edu.au.

OBJECTIVES: This review evaluates existing co-benefit models for emission and 
health outcomes of counterfactual scenarios of reduced meat consumption at a 
population level.
METHODS: A novel assessment process was developed, combining selected measures 
from the Cochrane Review quality assessment tools, from the PRISMA checklist, 
and model quality measures identified by the authors during the preliminary 
phases of the review process.
RESULTS: Four emission models and three health outcome models have been 
identified which show great variation in model characteristics and qualities. 
The estimated counterfactual scenario emission effects presented in the included 
studies ranged from a reduction of <3-30 % and reduction in the burden of 
disease ranged from 1 to 16 %. Meta-analysis could not be conducted due to high 
heterogeneity of model characteristics.
CONCLUSIONS: All co-benefit studies estimated that reducing population meat 
consumption could reduce greenhouse gas emissions and the burden of disease. 
However, important attention must be paid to nutrition balance and a systematic 
approach in input and output attribute parameters is recommended for better 
model quality.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-013-0484-z
PMID: 23877534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. G Ital Cardiol (Rome). 2013 Jul-Aug;14(7-8):538-47. doi: 10.1714/1308.14462.

[Aortic disease in Marfan syndrome: current role of surgery and thoracic 
endovascular aortic repair].

[Article in Italian]

Di Eusanio M(1), Berretta P, Folesani G, Di Bartolomeo R.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Cardiochirurgia, Policlinico S. Orsola-Malpighi, Università 
degli Studi, Bologna, Italy.

Aortic disease is the most life-threatening complication of Marfan syndrome. 
Over the last decades, improved medical management and surgical results of 
prophylactic aortic interventions on the aortic root have dramatically increased 
expectancy of life in Marfan syndrome patients. As a result, the number of 
Marfan syndrome patients requiring secondary interventions on the thoracic or 
thoraco-abdominal aorta due to development of aortic disease or new type B 
dissection, has substantially increased. In this setting, open surgical 
interventions represent the treatment of choice. Nevertheless, the available 
literature, although restricted to small case series, indicates that 
endovascular repair is a feasible treatment option leading to satisfactory 
short-term results and may provide a bridging role to definitive open 
reconstruction. The aim of this paper was to review surgical and endovascular 
outcomes of aortic disease in Marfan syndrome.

DOI: 10.1714/1308.14462
PMID: 23877551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. BMJ. 2013 Jul 22;347:f4672. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f4672.

Two CDC reports look at regional, racial, and sex disparities in US health.

McCarthy M.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f4672
PMID: 23878162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Malawi Med J. 2007 Dec;19(4):154-8. doi: 10.4314/mmj.v19i4.10946.

Trends in life expectancy and the macroeconomy in Malawi.

Matchaya G(1).

Author information:
(1)Leeds University, UK.

This paper studies the trends in life expectancy in Malawi since independence 
and offers possible explanations regarding inter-temporal variations. 
Descriptive analysis reveals that the life expectancy in Malawi has trailed 
