(€8.347 and €4.174, respectively). Over the full 12-month trial period cost per 
month in remission/LDAS estimates were only slightly in favour of infliximab 
(€6.959/€3.625) relative to abatacept (€7.297/€3.909). Assuming extension of 
treatment under real life conditions the cost per month in remission/LDAS turned 
substantially in favour of abatacept (€5.321/€2.819), as compared to infliximab 
(€7.189/€3.916). The higher initiation cost for abatacept to achieve 
remission/LDAS would be offset after a total 14.6 and 16.1 months of treatment, 
respectively, if treatment extended beyond 6 months under real-life conditions. 
These results proved to be robust when it was assumed that the (i) sharing of 
vials across patients completely averted infliximab wastage, (ii) AE risks were 
similar and (iii) onset of response was slower for abatacept.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest a lower cost-consequence for abatacept during 
real-life treatment.

PMID: 23711100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. Am J Chin Med. 2013;41(3):545-63. doi: 10.1142/S0192415X13500390.

Pterodon polygalaeflorus essential oil modulates acute inflammation and B and T 
lymphocyte activation.

Velozo LS(1), Martino T, Vigliano MV, Pinto FA, Silva GP, Justo Mda G, Sabino 
KC, Coelho MG.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Applied Immunology and Biochemistry of Proteins and Natural 
Products, Biochemistry Department, Biology Institute, Biomedical Center - Rio de 
Janeiro State University, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

The increased life expectancy of the population has led to increasing incidences 
of cancer, chronic inflammatory and autoimmune diseases. Thus the continuous 
search for new drugs is necessary because ineffectiveness and adverse effects 
have been described for standard drugs. Essential oils are important sources of 
bioactive metabolites and several clinical trials have been developed using 
them. The Pterodon genus has been used in traditional medicine to treat 
rheumatic disorders, thus this work investigated the properties of essential oil 
from Pterodon polygalaeflorus fruits (EsOPpg) on acute inflammation and 
lymphocyte activation. The essential oil was obtained by hydrodistillation and 
its components were identified by GC/MS. The anti-inflammatory response was 
assessed using the air pouch model. Antinociceptive potential was evaluated 
using the writhing model. Lymphocyte phenotyping, cell cycle and apoptosis were 
analyzed by flow cytometry. EsOPpg promoted a reduction in leukocyte counts and 
protein concentration in the exudate, and reduced vasodilatation and 
inflammatory cell infiltrate in air pouch tissue. No antinociceptive effect was 
demonstrated for the doses tested. EsOPpg inhibited lymphocyte proliferation, 
arresting the cell cycle in G1 phase, and induced apoptosis in these cells. 
EsOPpg downregulated both the total number of CD8(+) T cells and the activated 
subpopulation (CD8(+)CD69(+)), while promoting upregulation of the total number 
of CD19(+) and CD19(+)CD69(+) B cells. In conclusion, Pterodon polygalaeflorus 
essential oil diminished the acute inflammatory response and inhibited 
lymphocyte proliferation, reducing neutrophil recruitment into the cavity and 
air pouch tissue and promoting distinct modulations of the activation level of 
each lymphocyte subpopulation.

DOI: 10.1142/S0192415X13500390
PMID: 23711141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Braz J Infect Dis. 2013 Jul-Aug;17(4):464-79. doi:
10.1016/j.bjid.2012.11.007.  Epub 2013 May 25.

Aging with HIV: a practical review.

Cardoso SW(1), Torres TS, Santini-Oliveira M, Marins LM, Veloso VG, Grinsztejn 
B.

Author information:
(1)Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Instituto de Pesquisa Clínica Evandro Chagas, HIV/AIDS 
Clinical Research Center, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

The worldwide elderly population is expected to grow by an additional 694 
million people by 2025. By that time, there will be approximately two billion 
elderly people in the world, most of whom (80%) will be living in developing 
countries. Based on recent estimates, this population will number over 40 
million in 2030 in Brazil and a consequent increase in governmental spending for 
this population can be expected. Since highly active antiretroviral therapy 
became available in the mid-1990s, the life expectancy of people living with HIV 
has increased significantly. Approximately 12 million life years were added to 
the world between 1996 and 2008 as a consequence of wider access to highly 
active antiretroviral therapy. In Brazil, the incidence of AIDS among the 
population aged ≥50 years doubled between 1996 and 2006. The development of 
antiretroviral therapy has allowed individuals diagnosed at a younger age to 
live longer, which partially explains the aging tendency associated with the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic. It is estimated that by 2015, subjects aged ≥50 years will 
represent 50% of the people living with HIV undergoing clinical treatment. This 
scenario presents some challenges, including the fact that the diagnosis of HIV 
tends to be delayed in older patients compared to younger patients because the 
symptoms of HIV can be confused with those of other common diseases among the 
elderly and also because healthcare professionals do not consider this 
population to be at high risk for HIV infection. In regard to the individuals 
diagnosed with HIV, a further challenge is presented by the morbidity normally 
associated with aging. Finally, the elderly also exhibit higher susceptibility 
to the toxic effects and pharmacological interactions of medications. The 
present article reviews the literature regarding the profile of HIV infection 
among individuals aged ≥50 years focusing on practical features related to the 
clinical approach and long-term follow-up of this population.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Editora Ltda. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bjid.2012.11.007
PMCID: PMC9428066
PMID: 23711587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. J Vasc Surg. 2013 Oct;58(4):901-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.04.005. Epub 2013
May  25.

Subclavian revascularization in the age of thoracic endovascular aortic repair 
and comparison of outcomes in patients with occlusive disease.

Scali ST(1), Chang CK, Pape SG, Feezor RJ, Berceli SA, Huber TS, Beck AW.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery and Endovascular Therapy, University of Florida 
College of Medicine, Gainesville, Fla. Electronic address: 
salvatore.scali@surgery.ufl.edu.

OBJECTIVE: Open surgical revascularization for subclavian artery occlusive 
disease (OD) has largely been supplanted by endovascular treatment despite the 
excellent long-term patency of bypass. The indications for carotid-subclavian 
bypass (C-SBP) and subclavian transposition (ST) have been recently expanded 
with the widespread application of thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR), 
primarily to augment proximal landing zones or treat endovascular failures. This 
study was performed to determine the outcomes of patients undergoing C-SBP/ST in 
the context of contemporary endovascular therapies and evolving indications.
METHODS: A prospective database including all procedures performed at a single 
institution from 2002 to 2012 was retrospectively queried for patients who 
underwent subclavian revascularization for TEVAR or OD indications. Patient 
demographics and perioperative outcomes were recorded. Patency was determined by 
computed tomography angiography in the TEVAR group. Noninvasive studies were 
used for the OD patients. Life-table methods were used to estimate patency, 
reintervention, and survival.
RESULTS: Of 139 procedures identified, 101 were performed for TEVAR and 38 for 
OD. All TEVAR patients underwent C-SBP/ST to augment landing zones (49% 
preoperative; 41% intraoperative), treat arm ischemia (8% postoperative), or for 
internal mammary artery salvage (2%). OD patients had a variety of indications, 
including failed stent/arm fatigue, 49%; asymptomatic >80% internal carotid 
stenosis with concurrent subclavian occlusion, 18%; symptomatic cerebrovascular 
OD, 13%; redo bypass, 8%; and coronary-subclavian steal, 5%. Differences in 
postoperative stroke and death, primary patency, or freedom from reintervention 
were not significant. The 30-day postoperative stroke, death, and combined 
stroke/death rates were, respectively, 10.8%, 5.8%, and 13.7% for the entire 
cohort; 8.9%, 7.1%, and 12.9% in TEVAR patients; and 15.8%, 2.6%, and 15.8% in 
OD patients. The 1- and 3-year primary patencies were, respectively, 94% and 94% 
for TEVAR and 93% and 73% for OD patients. Survival was similar between the 
groups, with an estimated survival rate of 88% at 1 year and 76% at 5 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Stroke risk in this contemporary series of C-SBP/ST performed for 
TEVAR and OD indications may be higher than previously reported in historical 
series. In TEVAR patients, this may be attributed to procedural complexity of 
the TEVAR in patients requiring subclavian revascularization. In OD patients, 
this is likely due to the changing patient population that requires more 
frequent concomitant carotid interventions. Despite the short-term morbidity, 
excellent bypass durability and equivalent long-term patient survival can be 
anticipated.

Copyright © 2013 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.04.005
PMCID: PMC4135388
PMID: 23711694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Pediatrics. 2013 Jun;131(6):e1748-56. doi: 10.1542/peds.2012-3144. Epub 2013
May  27.

Pregnancy dose Tdap and postpartum cocooning to prevent infant pertussis: a 
decision analysis.

Terranella A(1), Asay GR, Messonnier ML, Clark TA, Liang JL.

Author information:
(1)National Center forImmunization and Respiratory Diseases, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA. USA.

BACKGROUND: Infants <2 months of age are at highest risk of pertussis morbidity 
and mortality. Until recently, the US Advisory Committee on Immunization 
Practices (ACIP) recommended protecting young infants by "cocooning" or 
vaccination of postpartum mothers and other close contacts with tetanus toxoid, 
reduced diphtheria toxoid, and acellular pertussis, adsorbed (Tdap) booster 
vaccine. ACIP recommends pregnancy vaccination as a preferred and safe 
alternative to postpartum vaccination. The ACIP cocooning recommendation has not 
changed.
METHODS: We used a cohort model reflecting US 2009 births and the 
diphtheria-tetanus-acellular pertussis schedule to simulate a decision and 
cost-effectiveness analysis of Tdap vaccination during pregnancy compared with 
postpartum vaccination with or without vaccination of other close contacts (ie, 
cocooning). We analyzed infant pertussis cases, hospitalizations, and deaths, as 
well as direct disease, indirect, and public health costs for infants in the 
first year of life. All costs were updated to 2011 US dollars.
RESULTS: Pregnancy vaccination could reduce annual infant pertussis incidence by 
more than postpartum vaccination, reducing cases by 33% versus 20%, 
hospitalizations by 38% versus 19%, and deaths by 49% versus 16%. Additional 
cocooning doses in a father and 1 grandparent could avert an additional 16% of 
cases but at higher cost. The cost per quality-adjusted life-year saved for 
pregnancy vaccination was substantially less than postpartum vaccination 
($414 523 vs $1 172 825).
CONCLUSIONS: Tdap vaccination during pregnancy could avert more infant cases and 
deaths at lower cost than postpartum vaccination, even when postpartum 
vaccination is combined with additional cocooning doses. Pregnancy dose 
vaccination is the preferred alternative to postpartum vaccination for 
preventing infant pertussis.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2012-3144
PMID: 23713104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Rehabil Psychol. 2013 May;58(2):137-147. doi: 10.1037/a0032196.

Using social-cognitive constructs to predict preoperative exercise before total 
joint replacement.

Fiala B(1), Rhodes RE(2), Blanchard C(3), Anderson J(4).

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Ministry of Health.
(2)Behavioral Medicine Laboratory, University of Victoria.
(3)Department of Medicine, Dalhousie University.
(4)Faculty of Education, University of Victoria.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to apply Bandura's (1998) 
social-cognitive theory to understand preoperative exercise and walking behavior 
in a sample of individuals waiting for total joint replacement (TJR) surgery.
METHOD: Participants (N = 78) were individuals waiting for TJR who completed 
measures of the social-cognitive theory, e.g., barrier efficacy, task efficacy, 
outcome expectancy, self-regulation, neighborhood walking environment, 
WOMAC-pain, WOMAC-physical function (Western Ontario and McMaster Universities 
Arthritis Index; In N. Bellamy, W. W. Buchanan, C. H. Goldsmith, J. Campbell, & 
L. W. Stitt, Validation study of WOMAC: A health status instrument for measuring 
clinically important patient relevant outcomes to antirheumatic drug therapy in 
patients with osteoarthritis of the hip or knee, The Journal of Rheumatology, 
1988, 15, pp. 1833-1840) framed for exercise and walking.
RESULTS: Independent t tests suggested no differences (p > .05) between type of 
surgery (hip vs. knee), gender, or age for exercise and over half of the sample 
was considered inactive (55%; American Geriatrics Society, 2001). Overall, 
social-cognitive theory failed to explain exercise in this sample; only pain (β 
= -.31) explained exercise behavior. When walking behavior was considered 
specifically, however, task efficacy for walking (β = .55) and self-regulation 
(β = .24) explained 32% of behavior. social cognitive theory showed limited 
capability in predicting exercise in this sample but strong capability for 
explaining walking.
CONCLUSION: When considering exercise before TJR surgery, our findings reflect 
the significance of the pain associated with advanced osteoarthritis and the 
negative impact on preoperative exercise behaviors. As walking was the most 
commonly reported type of exercise, results from this study suggest that task 
efficacy for walking and self-regulation may play an important role when 
considering interventions aimed to increase walking behavior before TJR.

DOI: 10.1037/a0032196
PMID: 23713726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. J Proteome Res. 2013 Jul 5;12(7):3117-27. doi: 10.1021/pr301097k. Epub 2013
Jun  25.

Metabolic phenotype modulation by caloric restriction in a lifelong dog study.

Richards SE(1), Wang Y, Claus SP, Lawler D, Kochhar S, Holmes E, Nicholson JK.

Author information:
(1)Biomolecular Medicine, Department of Surgery and Cancer, Faculty of Medicine, 
Imperial College London, Sir Alexander Fleming Building, South Kensington, 
London SW7 2AZ, UK. cancer@imperial.ac.uk

Modeling aging and age-related pathologies presents a substantial analytical 
challenge given the complexity of gene-environment influences and interactions 
operating on an individual. A top-down systems approach is used to model the 
effects of lifelong caloric restriction, which is known to extend life span in 
several animal models. The metabolic phenotypes of caloric-restricted (CR; n = 
24) and pair-housed control-fed (CF; n = 24) Labrador Retriever dogs were 
investigated by use of orthogonal projection to latent structures discriminant 
analysis (OPLS-DA) to model both generic and age-specific responses to caloric 
restriction from the ¹H NMR blood serum profiles of young and older dogs. Three 
aging metabolic phenotypes were resolved: (i) an aging metabolic phenotype 
independent of diet, characterized by high levels of glutamine, creatinine, 
methylamine, dimethylamine, trimethylamine N-oxide, and glycerophosphocholine 
and decreasing levels of glycine, aspartate, creatine and citrate indicative of 
metabolic changes associated largely with muscle mass; (ii) an aging metabolic 
phenotype specific to CR dogs that consisted of relatively lower levels of 
glucose, acetate, choline, and tyrosine and relatively higher serum levels of 
phosphocholine with increased age in the CR population; (iii) an aging metabolic 
phenotype specific to CF dogs including lower levels of liproprotein fatty acyl 
groups and allantoin and relatively higher levels of formate with increased age 
in the CF population. There was no diet metabotype that consistently 
differentiated the CF and CR dogs irrespective of age. Glucose consistently 
discriminated between feeding regimes in dogs (≥312 weeks), being relatively 
lower in the CR group. However, it was observed that creatine and amino acids 
(valine, leucine, isoleucine, lysine, and phenylalanine) were lower in the CR 
dogs (<312 weeks), suggestive of differences in energy source utilization. ¹H 
NMR spectroscopic analysis of longitudinal serum profiles enabled an unbiased 
evaluation of the metabolic markers modulated by a lifetime of caloric 
restriction and showed differences in the metabolic phenotype of aging due to 
caloric restriction, which contributes to longevity studies in 
caloric-restricted animals. Furthermore, OPLS-DA provided a framework such that 
significant metabolites relating to life extension could be differentiated and 
integrated with aging processes.

DOI: 10.1021/pr301097k
PMID: 23713866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. Respirology. 2013 Oct;18(7):1056-62. doi: 10.1111/resp.12130.

Effects of long-term azithromycin therapy on airway oxidative stress markers in 
non-cystic fibrosis bronchiectasis.

Diego AD(1), Milara J, Martinez-Moragón E, Palop M, León M, Cortijo J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pneumology, University Hospital La Fe, Valencia, Spain.

Comment in
    Respirology. 2013 Oct;18(7):1037-8.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To explore the effect of long-term therapy with 
azithromycin in regards to airway oxidative stress markers in exhaled breath 
condensate (EBC) of adult patients with stable non-cystic fibrosis (CF) 
bronchiectasis.
METHODS: Open-label prospective study of 30 patients randomized to azithromycin 
250 mg three times per week during 3 months (16 patients) or control (14 
patients). Primary outcome were changes in nitric oxide, 8-isoprostane, pH, 
nitrites and nitrates in EBC. Secondary outcomes were changes in exacerbation 
rates, dyspnoea (Borg scale), sputum volume (cc), sputum colour (15-point 
scale), bacterial infection, health-related quality of life (St George's 
Respiratory Questionnaire), lung function and radiological extension.
RESULTS: Azithromycin produced a significant decrease in sputum volume (8.9 
(1.8) mL vs 2.1 (3.4) mL) and number of exacerbations (0.1 (0.6) vs 1.2 (0.9)). 
Dyspnoea (0.4 (0.1) vs 0.1 (0.2)) and health-related quality of life also 
improved after therapy. However, oxidative stress markers in EBC, systemic 
inflammatory markers as well as functional respiratory tests did not differ from 
the control group after therapy. A post-hoc analysis comparing patients infected 
or not with Pseudomonas aeruginosa revealed that these effects were more 
pronounced in infected patients. In this subgroup, treatment was followed by a 
significant reduction in sputum volume, number of exacerbations, dyspnoea and St 
George's Respiratory Questionnaire total score. Of all airway oxidative stress 
markers, only nitrates in EBC were reduced after therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term azythromicin treatment has some clinical benefits in 
patients with non-CF stable bronchiectasis, but it does not affect airway 
oxidative stress markers.

© 2013 The Authors. Respirology © 2013 Asian Pacific Society of Respirology.

DOI: 10.1111/resp.12130
PMID: 23714268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2013;157(22):A6185.

[Providing information about metastasised cancer could be better: time for a 
good talk].

[Article in Dutch]

van der Graaf WT(1).

Author information:
(1)Radboud Universitair Medisch Centrum, afd. Medische Oncologie, Nijmegen. 
w.vandergraaf@onco.umcn.nl

It has been suggested that clinical oncologists do not discontinue active 
treatment in the palliative setting in a timely manner, and only care about the 
extension rather than the quality of life. Moreover, patients may be not very 
well informed about their prognosis and the intention behind their treatment. To 
improve decision-making in the palliative phase, understanding of recent 
advances in cancer care should be shared, as well as any potential adverse 
effects. Decision aids may be useful to improve the chance of satisfactory 
treatment decisions. The desire to obtain information is high in the majority of 
patients; however, oncologists do not always provide enough key information, 
particularly in terms of survival. During consultations, the time available to 
discuss these aspects is limited; it is believed that allocating more time for 
outpatient consultations could improve the quality and satisfaction regarding 
the decision to treat or not to treat. Ideally, general practitioners and 
palliative teams should be involved early in the decision-making process.

PMID: 23714297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. Am Soc Clin Oncol Educ Book. 2013:163-8. doi:
10.14694/EdBook_AM.2013.33.163.

Approach to the older patient with stage II/III colorectal cancer: who should 
get curative-intent therapy?

Ramsdale E(1), Sanoff H, Muss H.

Author information:
(1)From the University of Chicago Medical Center, Department of Medicine, 
Section of Hematology/Oncology, Chicago, IL; Lineberger Comprehensive Cancer 
Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC.

The majority of new colorectal cancer diagnoses occur in adults 65 and older a 
rapidly growing segment of the U.S. population. Older adults are a markedly 
heterogeneous group, and although recent clinical trials in locally advanced 
colorectal cancer have incorporated limited numbers of older patients, the data 
can not be generalized to most older patients. In particular, patients who are 
not "fit"-those with poor functional reserve, major comorbidities, or who 
otherwise meet criteria for frailty or "prefrailty"-are poorly represented in 
published trials. Population-based data demonstrate that older adults are much 
less likely to be treated in the adjuvant or neoadjuvant settings for stage 
II/III colorectal cancer, but it is unclear what the basis should be for 
withholding potentially curative therapy. Age and Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
Group (ECOG) performance status (PS) are frequently used to determine 
eligibility for treatment, but data increasingly suggest these are inadequate; 
the emerging definition of a spectrum of "fit" to "frail" older patients may 
provide additional guidance. Available data suggest that fit older patients may 
benefit as much from curative-intent therapy as younger patients. For frail or 
vulnerable (prefrail) patients, on the other hand, the benefit must be carefully 
weighed against the risk of toxicity and competing risks from their 
comorbidities. Life expectancy and patient preferences should always be 
elucidated. Geriatrician comanagement may be helpful in determining priorities, 
providing a comprehensive assessment, and modifying competing risk factors. Even 
many vulnerable or frail patients can successfully complete (and derive benefit 
from) carefully considered treatment regimens.

DOI: 10.14694/EdBook_AM.2013.33.163
PMID: 23714489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


153. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2013 Oct;84(10):1150-5. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2013-305200. Epub 2013 May 28.

Long term (13 years) prognosis after primary intracerebral haemorrhage: a 
prospective population based study of long term mortality, prognostic factors 
and causes of death.

Hansen BM(1), Nilsson OG, Anderson H, Norrving B, Säveland H, Lindgren A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences Lund, Neurology, Lund University, Lund, 
Sweden. Bjorn.Hansen@med.lu.se

INTRODUCTION: Many studies have focused on short term mortality after primary 
intracerebral haemorrhage (ICH) whereas long term prognosis and causes of death 
have been less studied. We therefore examined these issues in a population based 
cohort of 1 year ICH survivors.
METHODS: ICH patients in a defined Swedish population (1.14 million inhabitants) 
were prospectively registered during 1996. Patients surviving 1 year after ICH 
onset were followed-up regarding survival status and cause of death until 
December 2009 using data from the National Census Office and the National Cause 
of Death Register. Patient prognosis was also compared with the general 
population using official Swedish mortality data. Clinical and radiological 
prognostic factors were evaluated.
RESULTS: Of 323 patients with ICH, 172 (53%) survived after 1 year, 127 (39%) 
after 5 years and 57 (18%) after 13 years. Mortality of the 172, 1 year 
survivors (mean age 67.7 years at ICH) persistently exceeded expected mortality; 
13 years post ictus survival was only 34% compared with 61% in the general 
population. Of 115 deaths among the 172, 1 year survivors, 36% were from 
cerebrovascular disease and 19% from ischaemic heart disease. Independent risk 
factors for death among 1 year survivors were age (HR 1.08 per year; 95% CI 1.06 
to 1.10; p<0.001), diabetes mellitus at baseline (HR 2.10; 95% CI 1.18 to 3.74; 
p=0.012) and anticoagulant therapy (HR 1.99; 95% CI 1.12 to 3.53; p=0.018) at 
ICH onset.
CONCLUSIONS: One year survivors after ICH had a substantial and persisting 
excess mortality compared with the general population. Major causes of death 
were stroke and ischaemic heart disease.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2013-305200
PMID: 23715913 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


154. Int J Methods Psychiatr Res. 2013 Jun;22(2):144-54. doi: 10.1002/mpr.1383.
Epub  2013 May 28.

Establishing disability weights from pairwise comparisons for a US burden of 
disease study.

Rehm J(1), Frick U.

Author information:
(1)Center for Addiction and Mental Health, Toronto, Ontario, Canada. 
jtrehm@gmail.com

To determine valid and reliable disability weights for a U.S. burden of disease 
study, a convenience sample of 68 clinical experts was recruited, including 
representatives from over 20 NIH institutes and Centers for Disease Control and 
Prevention. Experts were given various health state valuation tasks including 
pairwise comparison, ranking, and Person Trade Off. Materials consisted of 
standardized descriptions of 11 attributes per health state (Classification and 
Measurement System of Functional Health, CLAMES). Attributes comprised up to 5 
ordinal levels of disability. All states were displayed either with or without 
health state labels. Health state descriptions were taken from an existing 
comprehensive Canadian system. Conditional Logistic (CLR) and Probit Regression 
(PR) were used to derive disability weights. CLR and PR converged in yielding 
stable regression weights to construct disability weights, with a correlation of 
0.816. The overall test-retest reliability amounted to 92.5% identical 
decisions. No significant difference was found for the presentation of health 
states with or without labels. A comparison of the expert valuations from our 
study with a standard gamble based valuation in the general population resulted 
in agreement of r = 0.61. The chosen methodology yielded valid and reliable and 
disability weights. As it is based on a modularized set of attributes, this 
methodology will allow derivation of disability weights on the basis of existing 
descriptions using the CLAMES.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/mpr.1383
PMCID: PMC6878468
PMID: 23716479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


155. PLoS One. 2013 May 22;8(5):e63271. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0063271. Print 
2013.

Effectiveness of a hospital-based work support intervention for female cancer 
patients - a multi-centre randomised controlled trial.

Tamminga SJ(1), Verbeek JH, Bos MM, Fons G, Kitzen JJ, Plaisier PW, 
Frings-Dresen MH, de Boer AG.

Author information:
(1)Coronel Institute of Occupational Health, Academic Medical Center, University 
of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands. S.J.Tamminga@amc.uva.nl

OBJECTIVE: One key aspect of cancer survivorship is return-to-work. 
Unfortunately, many cancer survivors face problems upon their return-to-work. 
For that reason, we developed a hospital-based work support intervention aimed 
at enhancing return-to-work. We studied effectiveness of the intervention 
compared to usual care for female cancer patients in a multi-centre randomised 
controlled trial.
METHODS: Breast and gynaecological cancer patients who were treated with 
curative intent and had paid work were randomised to the intervention group 
(n = 65) or control group (n = 68). The intervention involved patient education 
and support at the hospital and improvement of communication between treating 
and occupational physicians. In addition, we asked patient's occupational 
physician to organise a meeting with the patient and the supervisor to make a 
concrete gradual return-to-work plan. Outcomes at 12 months of follow-up 
included rate and time until return-to-work (full or partial), quality of life, 
work ability, work functioning, and lost productivity costs. Time until 
return-to-work was analyzed with Kaplan-Meier survival analysis.
RESULTS: Return-to-work rates were 86% and 83% (p = 0.6) for the intervention 
group and control group when excluding 8 patients who died or with a life 
expectancy of months at follow-up. Median time from initial sick leave to 
partial return-to-work was 194 days (range 14-435) versus 192 days (range 
82-465) (p = 0.90) with a hazard ratio of 1.03 (95% CI 0.64-1.6). Quality of 
life and work ability improved statistically over time but did not differ 
statistically between groups. Work functioning and costs did not differ 
statistically between groups.
CONCLUSION: The intervention was easily implemented into usual 
psycho-oncological care and showed high return-to-work rates. We failed to show 
any differences between groups on return-to-work outcomes and quality of life 
scores. Further research is needed to study which aspects of the intervention 
are useful and which elements need improvement.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Nederlands Trial Register (NTR) 1658.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0063271
PMCID: PMC3661555
PMID: 23717406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Co-author Angela de Boer is 
a PLOS ONE Editorial Board member and Jos Verbeek has done so in the past. This 
does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing 
data and materials.


156. PLoS One. 2013 May 22;8(5):e64275. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064275. Print 
2013.

Therapeutic options in docetaxel-refractory metastatic castration-resistant 
prostate cancer: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Zhong L(1), Pon V, Srinivas S, Nguyen N, Frear M, Kwon S, Gong C, Malmstrom R, 
Wilson L.

Author information:
(1)University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, California, United 
States of America.

BACKGROUND: Docetaxel is an established first-line therapy to treat metastatic 
castration-resistant prostate cancer (mCRPC). Recently, abiraterone and 
cabazitaxel were approved for use after docetaxel failure, with improved 
survival. National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) 
preliminary recommendations were negative for both abiraterone (now positive in 
final recommendation) and cabazitaxel (negative in final recommendation).
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of abiraterone, cabazitaxel, 
mitoxantrone and prednisone for mCRPC treatment in US.
METHODS: A decision-tree model was constructed to compare the two mCRPC 
treatments versus two placebos over 18 months from a societal perspective. 
Chance nodes include baseline pain as a severity indicator, grade III/IV 
side-effects, and survival at 18 months. Probabilities, survival and health 
utilities were from published studies. Model cost inputs included drug 
treatment, side-effect management and prevention, radiation for pain, and death 
associated costs in 2010 US dollars.
RESULTS: Abiraterone is a cost-effective choice at $94K/QALY (quality adjusted 
life years) compared to placebo in our base-case analysis. Cabazitaxel and 
abiraterone are the most effective, yet also most expensive agents. The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) at base-case are $101K/QALY 
(extended dominated) for mitoxantrone vs. placebo, $91K/QALY for abiraterone vs. 
mitoxantrone, $956K/QALY for cabazitaxel vs. abiraterone. Abiraterone becomes 
less cost-effective as its AWP increases, or if the cost of mitoxantrone 
side-effect management decreases. Increases in the percentage of patients with 
baseline pain leads to an increased ICER for both mitoxantrone and abiraterone, 
but mitoxantrone does relatively better. Cabazitaxel remains not cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: Our base case model suggests that abiraterone is a cost-effective 
option in docetaxel-refractory mCRPC patients. Newer treatments will also need a 
CEA assessment compared to abiraterone.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0064275
PMCID: PMC3661482
PMID: 23717582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have no 
conflict of interests to disclose.


157. Surg Neurol Int. 2013 May 2;4(Suppl 4):S289-93. doi:
10.4103/2152-7806.111305.  Print 2013.

Gliadel for brain metastasis.

Abel TJ(1), Ryken T, Lesniak MS, Gabikian P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Iowa Hospitals and Clinics, Iowa 
City, IA, USA.

With therapies for systemic malignancy improving, life expectancy for cancer 
patients is becoming increasingly dependent on control of brain metastatic 
disease. Despite improvements in surgical and radiotherapy modalities for 
control of brain metastasis, the prognosis for patients with brain metastases is 
poor. The development of controlled release polymers has lead to novel new 
therapies for malignant brain tumors consisting of direct surgical delivery of 
chemotherapy agents to the tumor bed and sustained chemotherapy release over a 
prolonged period of time. Although there is a large body of literature in 
support of BCNU polymer wafer for primary brain malignancy and experimental 
brain metastases, clinical studies evaluating the BCNU polymer wafer for brain 
metastatic disease are relatively sparse. In this review, we discuss the role of 
the BCNU polymer wafer for brain metastasis focusing specifically on rationale 
for use of locally delivered sustained release polymers, history of the BCNU 
polymer wafer, and emerging studies examining the role of the BCNU polymer wafer 
for metastatic brain tumors.

DOI: 10.4103/2152-7806.111305
PMCID: PMC3656564
PMID: 23717799


158. Rev Med Suisse. 2013 May 1;9(384):946-7.

["Life expectancy in good health": the last European data].

[Article in French]

Nau JY(1).

Author information:
(1)jeanyves.nau@gmail.com

PMID: 23717905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


159. Vopr Kurortol Fizioter Lech Fiz Kult. 2013 Mar-Apr;(2):14-9.

[The comparative effectiveness of high-intensity dynamic training with the use 
of exercise machines and therapeutic gymnastics for the joints in the patients 
presenting with early rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in Russian]

Orlova EV, Karateev DE, Kochetkov AV, Mozhar TE.

The objective of the present work was to compare the effectiveness of two 
therapeutic exercise programs for the patients presenting with early rheumatoid 
arthritis (RA). The study included 51 patients. Fifteen of them (group 1) were 
given conventional medicamental therapy in combination with high-intensity 
dynamic physical exercises with the use of the Enraf-Nonius training devices 
(45-60 min). Eighteen patients of group 2 were offered 10 sessions of remedial 
gymnastics for the joints (45 min each) under the guidance of an instructor that 
were continued under the domestic conditions (45 min each session thrice weekly 
for 3 months). Eighteen patients of group 3 were given medicamental therapy 
alone (control). The parameters estimated in the study included the mean 
strength of knee joint extension and ankle joint flexion measured with the use 
of En-TreeM devices, articular pain (100 mm BAHI), DAS28, HAQ, and RAPID3 
indices. It was shown that both programs of therapeutic exercises reduced the 
severity of the disease, improved the functional and motor activity of the 
patients and their quality of life. The majority of these characteristics were 
significantly different from those documented in the control group (p<0.05). The 
clinical effectiveness of high-intensity training with the use of exercise 
machines was higher than without them (articular pain was reduced by 57.9% 
(p<0.01), DAS28 by 24.7% (p<0.05), HAQ by 60.7% (p<0.01). RAPID3 by 47.5% 
(p<0.01), mean strength of extension of the weak and strong knee joints 
increased by 87.9% (p<0.01) and 70.5% (p<0.01) respectively, the strength of 
flexion of the severely and less severely affected ankle joints increased by 
84.6 (p<0.01) and 68.8% (p<0.01) respectively. Compliance with regular 
performance of therapeutic joint exercises during 3 months was higher (83.3%) 
than with high-intensity dynamic training with the use of exercise machines 
(60%). It is concluded that the latter modality should be recommended to the 
younger patients with RA (below 40 years), a short history of the disease, and 
its low activity.

PMID: 23718079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


160. J Public Health Policy. 2013 Aug;34(3):439-46. doi: 10.1057/jphp.2013.22.
Epub  2013 May 30.

Using disability-adjusted life years to set health-based targets: a novel use of 
an established burden of disease metric.

Gibney K(1), Sinclair M, O'Toole J, Leder K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, The Alfred Centre, 99 
Commercial Road, Melbourne VIC3004, Australia. katherine.gibney@monash.edu

Following the 1990 Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study, Disability-Adjusted 
Life Years (DALYs) have been used widely to quantify the population health 
burden of diseases and to prioritise and evaluate the impact of specific public 
health interventions. In the context of the recent release of the 2010 GBD 
study, we explore the novel use of DALYS to determine health-based targets 
(HBTs). As with the more traditional use of DALYs, the main advantage of using 
DALYs as HBTs is the ability to account for differential disease severity, 
identify the most appropriate public health interventions, and measure the 
positive and negative outcomes of these interventions. Australia is currently 
considering adopting DALYs for setting HBTs for drinking water quality, as 
recommended by the WHO. Adoption of DALY HBTs could be relevant in other areas, 
including air quality, food safety, health care-associated infections, and 
surgical complications.

DOI: 10.1057/jphp.2013.22
PMCID: PMC3730237
PMID: 23719293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


161. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2017 Jun;58(3):446-450. doi: 
10.23736/S0021-9509.17.07245-7. Epub 2013 May 29.

A retrospective study on short-term results with straight graft vs. bifurcated 
graft in abdominal aortic aneurysms: a single center experience.

Musio D(1), Gazzola V(2), Cafueri G(2), Spinella G(2), Pane B(2), Palombo D(2).

Author information:
(1)Vascular and Endovascular Surgery Unit, IRCCS San Martino-IST University 
Hospital, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy - debora.musio@yahoo.com.
(2)Vascular and Endovascular Surgery Unit, IRCCS San Martino-IST University 
Hospital, University of Genoa, Genoa, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this paper was to compare in a retrospective study the 
outcome of aortoaortic graft (straight graft) versus aortoiliac graft 
(bifurcated graft) with regards to periprocedural and 30-day after surgery 
complications.
METHODS: From January 2004 to December 2009 377 patients underwent elective open 
surgery for infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm. Data were collected in a 
dedicated database. Group A includes patients treated with straight graft 
(N.=186) whereas group B, patients treated with bifurcated graft (N.=191). 
Outcome data include duration of surgical procedure, blood loss, peri- and 
postprocedural complications, hospital stay, 30-day mortality and complications. 
Following some authors, we set our cut-off for choosing a bifurcated graft when 
one or both Iliac Arteries were wider than 18 mm in diameter and the patient had 
a reasonable life expectancy.
RESULTS: Duration of surgical procedure was 183 minutes in the group A vs. 216 
minutes in the group B (P<0.01). Blood loss was 554 mL and 720 mL, in the groups 
A and B respectively (P<0.01). The difference between other results evaluated 
was not statistically significant.
CONCLUSIONS: In statistics terms, this retrospective study showed no relevant 
differences between straight graft and bifurcated graft with regard to mortality 
and major complications during the peri- and postoperatory period. Hence, as a 
conclusion, we could assert that if the iliac artery diameter is 18 mm a 
bifurcated graft could be used, without any increase in morbidity and mortality 
rates.

DOI: 10.23736/S0021-9509.17.07245-7
PMID: 23719619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


162. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 Jun;15(5):453-63. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0486-z.
Epub  2013 May 30.

Cost-effectiveness of febuxostat in chronic gout.

Beard SM(1), von Scheele BG, Nuki G, Pearson IV.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Sheffield, UK.

Erratum in
    Eur J Health Econ. 2014 Nov;15(8):897.

Our objective was to evaluate data on the cost-effectiveness of febuxostat 
compared with standard clinical practice with allopurinol in patients with gout 
that was presented to the Scottish Medicines Consortium (SMC) in 2010. A Markov 
health-state model estimated the direct health-related costs and clinical 
benefits expressed as quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Adults with chronic 
gout and established hyperuricaemia received treatment sequences of daily doses 
of allopurinol 300 mg alone or allopurinol 300 mg followed by febuxostat 
80 mg/120 mg. The proportion of patients achieving the target serum uric acid 
(sUA) level of less than 6 mg/dl (0.36 mmol/l) was linked to the utility per sUA 
level to generate an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Second-line 
therapy with febuxostat 80 mg/120 mg versus with allopurinol alone resulted in 
an ICER of £3,578 per QALY over a 5-year time horizon. Additional univariate 
analyses showed that ICER values were robust and ranged from £2,550 to £7,165 
per QALY when different parameters (e.g., low- and high-dose allopurinol 
titrations and variations in treatment-induced flare rates) were varied. 
Febuxostat reduces sUA below the European League Against Rheumatism target of 
0.36 mmol/l (6 mg/dl) in significantly more patients with gout than allopurinol 
in its most frequently prescribed dose of 300 mg per day. The SMC accepted 
febuxostat as cost-effective as a suitable second-line option for urate-lowering 
therapy for the treatment of patients with chronic hyperuricaemia in conditions 
where urate deposition has already occurred (including a history or presence of 
tophus and/or gouty arthritis) when treatment with allopurinol was inadequate, 
not tolerated, or contraindicated.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0486-z
PMID: 23719971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


163. Development. 2013 Jul;140(13):2823-7. doi: 10.1242/dev.091249. Epub 2013 May
29.

Imaging neurite development of adult-born granule cells.

Kleine Borgmann FB(1), Bracko O, Jessberger S.

Author information:
(1)Brain Research Institute, Faculty of Medicine, University of Zurich, 8057 
Zurich, Switzerland.

Neural stem/progenitor cells (NSPCs) generate new neurons throughout life in the 
mammalian hippocampus. Newborn granule cells mature over several weeks to 
functionally integrate into the pre-existing neural circuitry. Even though an 
increasing number of genes that regulate neuronal polarization and neurite 
extension have been identified, the cellular mechanisms underlying the extension 
of neurites arising from newborn granule cells remain largely unknown. This is 
mainly because of the current lack of longitudinal observations of neurite 
growth within the endogenous niche. Here we used a novel slice culture system of 
the adult mouse hippocampal formation combined with in vivo retroviral labeling 
of newborn neurons and longitudinal confocal imaging to analyze the mode and 
velocity of neurite growth extending from immature granule cells. Using this 
approach we show that dendritic processes show a linear growth pattern with a 
speed of 2.19±0.2 μm per hour, revealing a much faster growth dynamic than 
expected by snapshot-based in vivo time series. Thus, we here identified the 
growth pattern of neurites extending from newborn neurons within their niche and 
describe a novel technology that will be useful to monitor neuritic growth in 
physiological and disease states that are associated with altered dendritic 
morphology, such as rodent models of epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1242/dev.091249
PMID: 23720045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


164. Ann Surg Oncol. 2013 Oct;20(11):3675-84. doi: 10.1245/s10434-013-3028-0.
Epub  2013 May 30.

Active surveillance, radiofrequency ablation, or cryoablation for the 
nonsurgical management of a small renal mass: a cost-utility analysis.

Bhan SN(1), Pautler SE, Shayegan B, Voss MD, Goeree RA, You JJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, McMaster University, Hamilton, ON, Canada. 
bhans@mcmaster.ca

BACKGROUND: Patients with a cortical small (≤4 cm) renal mass often are not 
candidates for or choose not to undergo surgery. The optimal management strategy 
for such patients is unclear.
METHODS: A decision-analytic Markov model was developed from the perspective of 
a third party payer to compare the quality-adjusted life expectancy and lifetime 
costs for 67-year-old patients with a small renal mass undergoing premanagement 
decision biopsy, immediate percutaneous radiofrequency ablation or percutaneous 
cryoablation (without premanagement biopsy), or active surveillance with serial 
imaging and subsequent ablation if needed.
RESULTS: The dominant strategy (most effective and least costly) was active 
surveillance with subsequent cryoablation if needed. On a quality-adjusted and 
discounted basis, immediate cryoablation resulted in a similar life expectancy 
(3 days fewer) but cost $3,010 more. This result was sensitive to the relative 
rate of progression to metastatic disease. Strategies that employed 
radiofrequency ablation had decreased quality-adjusted life expectancies 
(82-87 days fewer than the dominant strategy) and higher costs ($3,231-$6,398 
more).
CONCLUSIONS: Active surveillance with delayed percutaneous cryoablation, if 
needed, may be a safe and cost-effective alternative to immediate cryoablation. 
The uncertainty in the relative long-term rate of progression to metastatic 
disease in patients managed with active surveillance versus immediate 
cryoablation needs to be weighed against the higher cost of immediate 
cryoablation. A randomized trial is needed directly to evaluate the nonsurgical 
management of patients with a small renal mass, and could be limited to the most 
promising strategies identified in this analysis.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-013-3028-0
PMID: 23720071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


165. Cancer. 2013 Sep 1;119(17):3123-32. doi: 10.1002/cncr.28131. Epub 2013 May
29.

Cost-effectiveness of stereotactic body radiation therapy versus surgical 
resection for stage I non-small cell lung cancer.

Shah A(1), Hahn SM, Stetson RL, Friedberg JS, Pechet TT, Sher DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Perelman School of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Department of Radiation Oncology, 
Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York.

BACKGROUND: The traditional treatment for clearly operable (CO) patients with 
stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) is lobectomy, with wedge resection 
(WR) and stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) serving as alternatives in 
marginally operable (MO) patients. Given an aging population with an increasing 
prevalence of screening, it is likely that progressively more people will be 
diagnosed with stage I NSCLC, and thus it is critical to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of these treatments.
METHODS: A Markov model was created to compare the cost-effectiveness of SBRT 
with WR and lobectomy for MO and CO patients, respectively. Disease, treatment, 
and toxicity data were extracted from the literature and varied in sensitivity 
analyses. A payer (Medicare) perspective was used.
RESULTS: In the base case, SBRT (MO cohort), SBRT (CO cohort), WR, and lobectomy 
were associated with mean cost and quality-adjusted life expectancies of 
$42,094/8.03, $40,107/8.21, $51,487/7.93, and $49,093/8.89, respectively. In MO 
patients, SBRT was the dominant and thus cost-effective strategy. This result 
was confirmed in most deterministic sensitivity analyses as well as 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis, in which SBRT was most likely cost-effective 
up to a willingness-to-pay of more than $500,000/quality-adjusted life year. For 
CO patients, lobectomy was the cost-effective treatment option in the base case 
(incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $13,216/quality-adjusted life year) and 
in nearly every sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: SBRT was nearly always the most cost-effective treatment strategy 
for MO patients with stage I NSCLC. In contrast, for patients with CO disease, 
lobectomy was the most cost-effective option.

Copyright © 2013 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28131
PMID: 23720093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


166. Am J Hematol. 2013 Jul;88(7):612-24. doi: 10.1002/ajh.23459. Epub 2013 May
30.

Systemic mastocytosis in adults: 2013 update on diagnosis, risk stratification, 
and management.

Pardanani A(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, 
Minnesota.

DISEASE OVERVIEW: Systemic mastocytosis (SM) results from a clonal proliferation 
of abnormal mast cells (MC) in one or more extracutaneous organs.
DIAGNOSIS: The major criterion is presence of multifocal clusters of 
morphologically abnormal MC in the bone marrow. Minor diagnostic criteria 
include elevated serum tryptase level, abnormal MC expression of CD25 and/or 
CD2, and presence of KITD816V.
RISK STRATIFICATION: The 2008 World Health Organization (WHO) classification of 
SM has been shown to be prognostically relevant. Classification of SM patients 
into indolent (SM), aggressive SM (ASM), SM associated with a clonal non-MC 
lineage disease (SM-AHNMD) and mast cell leukemia (MCL) subgroups is a useful 
first step in establishing prognosis.
MANAGEMENT: SM treatment is generally palliative. ISM patients have a normal 
life expectancy and receive symptom-directed therapy; infrequently, 
cytoreductive therapy may be indicated for refractory symptoms. ASM patients 
have disease-related organ dysfunction; interferon-α (±corticosteroids) can 
control dermatological, hematological, gastrointestinal, skeletal, and 
mediator-release symptoms, but is hampered by poor tolerability. Similarly, 
cladribine has broad therapeutic activity, with particular utility when rapid MC 
debulking is indicated; the main toxicity is myelosuppression. Imatinib has a 
therapeutic role in the presence of an imatinib-sensitive KIT mutation or in 
KITD816-unmutated patients. Treatment of SM-AHNMD is governed primarily by the 
non-MC neoplasm; hydroxyurea has modest utility in this setting.
INVESTIGATIONAL DRUGS: Dasatinib's in vitro anti- KITD816V activity has not 
translated into significant therapeutic activity in most SM patients. In 
contrast, recently updated data confirms Midostaurin's significant anti-MC 
activity in patients with advanced SM.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.23459
PMID: 23720340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


167. J Dent Res. 2013 Jul;92(7):592-7. doi: 10.1177/0022034513490168. Epub 2013
May  29.

Global burden of oral conditions in 1990-2010: a systematic analysis.

Marcenes W(1), Kassebaum NJ, Bernabé E, Flaxman A, Naghavi M, Lopez A, Murray 
CJ.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Dentistry, Barts and The London School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, London, UK. w.marcenes@qmul.ac.uk

Comment in
    J Dent Res. 2013 Jul;92(7):573-4.
    Evid Based Dent. 2013;14(2):35.
    N C Med J. 2017 Nov-Dec;78(6):406-409.

The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) 2010 Study produced comparable estimates of 
the burden of 291 diseases and injuries in 1990, 2005, and 2010. This article 
reports on the global burden of untreated caries, severe periodontitis, and 
severe tooth loss in 2010 and compares those figures with new estimates for 
1990. We used disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) and years lived with 
disability (YLDs) metrics to quantify burden. Oral conditions affected 3.9 
billion people, and untreated caries in permanent teeth was the most prevalent 
condition evaluated for the entire GBD 2010 Study (global prevalence of 35% for 
all ages combined). Oral conditions combined accounted for 15 million DALYs 
globally (1.9% of all YLDs; 0.6% of all DALYs), implying an average health loss 
of 224 years per 100,000 population. DALYs due to oral conditions increased 
