below the Sub Saharan African average. From the 1960s through to the early 1980s 
life expectancy improved driven mainly by rising incomes and the absence of 
HIV/AIDS. In the mid 1980s life expectancy declined tremendously and never 
improved due to the spread of HIV/AIDS, the economic slump that followed the 
World Bank's Structural Adjustment programmes (SAP) and widespread corruption 
and poor governance in the era of democracy. At the turn of the new millennium, 
Malawians were no healthier than their ancestors at the dawn of independence 
though this improved after 2004. If Malawi is to meet its health Millennium 
Development Goals by 2015, good governance, improved agricultural performance 
and an increase in health expenditure should be at the heart of its development 
policies.

DOI: 10.4314/mmj.v19i4.10946
PMCID: PMC3345930
PMID: 23878664


600. Przegl Lek. 2013;70(2):57-64.

[Prevention of atherosclerosis in children--the role of statins and aspirin].

[Article in Polish]

Stolarz-Skrzypek K(1), Bednarski A, Drozdz D, Czarnecka D.

Author information:
(1)I Klinika Kardiologii i Nadciśnienia Tetniczego, Instytut Kardiologii, 
Uniwersytet Jagielloński Collegium Medicum, Kraków. kstolarz@cm-uj.krakow.pl

Cardiovascular diseases remain the leading cause of death in Poland and in 
Europe. Children rarely suffer from them, although most of the risk factors 
which accelerate progression of atherosclerosis commence in childhood, 
including: dyslipidemias, hypertension, diabetes, and obesity. Moreover during 
last few years the incidence of some of risk factors in children, such as 
obesity, diabetes and dyslipidemia has increased significantly. It is known from 
the autopsy studies that atherosclerosis can be identified at very young age in 
healthy children. In adult population medications such as HMG-CoA reductase 
inhibitors (statins) and acetylsalicylic acid (ASA, aspirin) have strong 
position confirmed by many multicenter clinical trials. They significantly 
reduce cardiovascular risk and increase life expectancy. Latest recommendations 
on management of hyperlipidemias in children expand indications for screening of 
lipid level imbalances and indicate statins as main pharmacotherapy after 
failure of life style changes. On the other hand acetylsalicylic acid is not 
used so broadly. Only children at high risk of thrombosis may benefit from its 
antiplatelet property. This review presents the latest recommendations and the 
therapeutic role of these medications in pediatric population.

PMID: 23879005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Ann Noninvasive Electrocardiol. 2013 Jul;18(4):379-88. doi:
10.1111/anec.12045.  Epub 2013 May 3.

Evaluation of the Charlson comorbidity index to predict early mortality in 
implantable cardioverter defibrillator patients.

Bhavnani SP(1), Coleman CI, Guertin D, Yarlagadda RK, Clyne CA, Kluger J.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Section of Heart Rhythm Management and the Evidence 
Based Practice Center, Hartford Hospital, Hartford CT, USA.

BACKGROUND: Current guidelines consider the implantation of an implantable 
cardioverter defibrillator (ICD) a class III indication in patients with a life 
expectancy of <1 year. An evaluation of concomitant noncardiac conditions may 
identify patients whom may not derive benefit with ICD therapy. We sought to 
evaluate the association of the Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) on the 
prediction of early mortality (EM), death <1 year after ICD implant.
METHODS: The study population consisted of patients (n = 1062) undergoing ICD 
implantation for the primary or secondary prevention of sudden cardiac death 
from 1997 to 2007. The predictive value of the CCI on the risk of EM and 
appropriate shock therapy for ventricular arrhythmias as compared to patients 
without EM after ICD implant was calculated using multivariable Cox proportional 
hazards and receiver operator analyses.
RESULTS: Patients experiencing EM (n = 110) demonstrated higher CCI scores (mean 
2.8 ± 1.3 vs 1.5 ± 1.2, P < 0.001) as compared to individuals without EM (n = 
963). Among patients with a CCI of 0, 1, 2, 3, 4, and ≥5, the incidence of EM 
increased from 5% to 78%. The CCI was an independent predictor of EM (AHR 1.4 
[95% CI 1.2-1.6], P < 0.001, per single score increase). Patients who 
experienced EM demonstrated a decreased incidence of appropriate ICD therapy 
when compared to patients without EM (AHR 0.4 [95% CI 0.2-0.7], P = 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Noncardiac conditions are commonly observed among patients 
undergoing ICD implantation. Guidelines must incorporate a comprehensive 
assessment of concomitant comorbidities to minimize the risk of EM and to 
maximize the survival benefit with ICD therapy.

©2013, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/anec.12045
PMCID: PMC6932026
PMID: 23879278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med. 2013 Oct 1;3(10):a009779. doi: 
10.1101/cshperspect.a009779.

Antibiotic and anti-inflammatory therapies for cystic fibrosis.

Chmiel JF(1), Konstan MW, Elborn JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Case Western Reserve University School of Medicine, 
Rainbow Babies and Children's Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio 44106.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) lung disease is characterized by chronic bacterial 
infection and an unremitting inflammatory response, which are responsible for 
most of CF morbidity and mortality. The median expected survival has increased 
from <6 mo in 1940 to >38 yr now. This dramatic improvement, although not great 
enough, is due to the development of therapies directed at secondary disease 
pathologies, especially antibiotics. The importance of developing treatments 
directed against the vigorous inflammatory response was realized in the 1990s. 
New therapies directed toward the basic defect are now visible on the horizon. 
However, the impact of these drugs on downstream pathological consequences is 
unknown. It is likely that antibiotics and anti-inflammatory drugs will remain 
an important part of the maintenance regimen for CF in the foreseeable future. 
Current and future antibiotic and anti-inflammatory therapies for CF are 
reviewed.

DOI: 10.1101/cshperspect.a009779
PMCID: PMC3784810
PMID: 23880054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Am J Sports Med. 2013 Oct;41(10):2314-24. doi: 10.1177/0363546513495637.
Epub  2013 Jul 23.

Accelerated weightbearing rehabilitation after matrix-induced autologous 
chondrocyte implantation in the tibiofemoral joint: early clinical and 
radiological outcomes.

Edwards PK(1), Ackland TR, Ebert JR.

Author information:
(1)Peter K. Edwards, School of Sport Science, Exercise and Health (M408 The 
University of Western Australia, 35 Stirling Highway, Crawley, 6009, Western 
Australia, Australia. peter.edwards@uwa.edu.au).

BACKGROUND: Matrix-induced autologous chondrocyte implantation (MACI) has become 
an established technique for the repair of full-thickness chondral defects in 
the knee, although best patient outcomes appear limited by a lack of 
evidence-based knowledge on how to progressively increase postoperative 
weightbearing (WB) and rehabilitation exercises.
HYPOTHESIS: To determine the safety and efficacy of an accelerated WB regimen 
after MACI in the tibiofemoral joint.
STUDY DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial; Level of evidence, 1.
METHODS: Clinical and radiological assessments were performed in 28 knees at 12 
months after MACI to the medial or lateral femoral condyle. Both rehabilitation 
interventions sought to protect the implant for an initial period and then 
incrementally increase load bearing. Under the "accelerated" (AR) protocol, 
patients reached full WB at 6 weeks after surgery compared with 8 weeks for what 
was considered to be the current "best practice" (CR) WB regimen based on 
previous research. Assessments included the Knee Injury and Osteoarthritis 
Outcome Score (KOOS), 36-Item Short Form Health Survey (SF-36), visual analog 
scale, 6-minute walk test, and active knee range of motion (ROM). 
High-resolution magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) was used to describe the 
quality and quantity of repair tissue via the assessment of pertinent parameters 
of graft repair as well as an MRI composite score.
RESULTS: Patients in both groups demonstrated significant improvement (P < .05) 
in all clinical measures over the preoperative and postoperative timeline from 
before surgery to 12 months after surgery. The AR group reported significantly 
better (P < .05) SF-36 physical component scores at 8 weeks and significantly 
greater (P < .05) KOOS quality of life scores at 6 and 12 months 
postoperatively. Although no differences (P > .05) were observed between the 2 
groups for active knee ROM, the AR group did achieve full active knee extension 
as early as 4 weeks compared with the CR group at 12 weeks. There was no 
difference (P > .05) in graft quality as assessed by MRI (MOCART composite 
score: AR, 3.34; CR, 3.04), with no patients suffering any adverse effects from 
the implant up to 12 months, regardless of the rehabilitation protocol employed.
CONCLUSION: The AR approach that reduced the length of time spent ambulating on 
crutches resulted in improved general physical function and quality of life and 
an earlier attainment of full active knee extension when compared with the CR 
approach. There were no graft complications ascertained through MRI. This 
regimen appears safe and may potentially speed up the recovery of normal gait 
function. A larger patient cohort and follow-up are required to observe 
long-term graft outcomes.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546513495637
PMID: 23880403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Orthopade. 2013 Aug;42(8):654-7. doi: 10.1007/s00132-013-2151-8.

[Periprosthetic humeral fracture: complex circumstances need critical selection 
of therapy].

[Article in German]

Ullerich F(1), Rixen D.

Author information:
(1)BG Unfallklinik Duisburg, Großenbaumer Allee 250, 47249, Duisburg, 
Deutschland. falk.ullerich@bgu-duisburg.de

Although periprosthetic humeral fractures were previously rare injuries, they 
will increase because of the rising life expectancy of patients and increasing 
implantation of shoulder prostheses. This article describes a case of an 
86-year-old female patient with very thin humeral cortex and a prosthesis 
filling the medullary cavity. The morphology of fractures and the surrounding 
circumstances determine choice of therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-013-2151-8
PMID: 23881166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Eur Heart J. 2013 Jun;34(21):1531.

Vegetarian diet cuts risk of heart disease by one-third.

Taylor J.

There is no increase in life expectancy for vegetarians and the jury is out on 
the protective effects of fish

PMID: 23882717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2013 Jun;34(204):332-8.

[The evaluation of cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of valganciclovir for the 
prophylaxis of cytomegalovirus disease to 200 days after kidney 
transplantation].

[Article in Polish]

Kawalec P(1), Holko P, Szkultecka-Debek M, Paszulewicz A, Boratyńska M, Głyda M, 
Ignacak E, Maks J, Russel-Szymczyk M, Kaweczyńska-Lasoń A.

Author information:
(1)Uniwersytet Jagielloński w Krakowie, Zakład Gospodarki Lekiem, Instytut 
Zdrowia Publicznego, Wydział Nauk o Zdrowiu. pawel.kawalec@uj.edu.pl

Standard procedure for cytomegalovirus disease (CMV) prophylaxis in kidney 
transplant patients was the administration of valganciclovir for up to 110 days 
after organ transplant. This prophylaxis has been extended up to 200 days in 
Poland since 2011. The decision was based on the results of clinical trials 
which showed significant clinical benefit in case of prolonged administration of 
the drug. The aim of the analysis was to provide the economic evaluation of 
extending the CMV prophylaxis with co-financed from public funds Valcyte 
(valganciclovirum; 60 tab. a 450 mg; Roche Polska Sp. z o.o.) from 110 to 200 
days, in the high risk patients group after kidney transplant (seronegative 
recipient and infected donor, D+/R-). The analysis was performed from the Polish 
healthcare payer's perspective.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All methods used in the following study were consistent 
with the Requirements of the Polish HTA Agency (AHTAPOL). The cost-effectiveness 
and the cost-utility analysis were performed on the basis of a randomised study 
which was identified as a result of the systematic search of the medical 
databases, comparing 200 days valgancyclovir administration with 100 days drug 
use as a prophylaxis of CMV disease in the patients group mentioned above. The 
Markov model was developed, simulating the disease evolution over time 
considering a high risk patient after kidney transplant treated with 
valgancicloviras the CMV disease prophylaxis. The disease period was divided 
into health states that are the most probable for this condition and the 
transitions probabilities between them were identified and assigned. Based on 
the clinical trial results, registry database of health conditions usability and 
experts' opinion, all health states (i.e. death, kidney transplant, CMV disease) 
were attributed with utilities and costs. The direct costs, important from the 
Polish healthcare payer's perspective, were included in the analysis. Extension 
of the proposed model in the series of one month time cycles made it possible to 
assess long-term (assumed time horizon was median patient's life 
expectancy--23,5 years) costs and clinical effects of the compared technologies.
RESULTS: The Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio (ICER) was 39 669 008 PLN and 
The Incremental Cost-Utility Ratio (ICUR) was 48 008 PLN in the specified time 
horizon. The result is well below the accepted threshold of profitability in 
Poland (assuming tripled GDP per capita cost-utility threshold, i.e. 99 543 
PLN), which means that the therapy is cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the analysis confirmed that the 200 days use of 
valganciclovirin the prevention of CMV disease compared to standard 110 days 
therapy is economically justified from the Polish healthcare payer's 
perspective.

PMID: 23882930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Pol Merkur Lekarski. 2013 Jun;34(204):355-9.

[Pulmonary arterial hypertension: modern diagnostics and therapy--Part 1].

[Article in Polish]

Betkier-Lipińska K(1), Ryczek R, Kwasiborski P, Cwetsch A.

Author information:
(1)Wojskowy Instytut Medyczny w Warszawie, Klinika Kardiologii i Chorób 
Wewnetrznych, Centralny Szpital Kliniczny Ministerstwa Obrony Narodowej. 
kbetkier-lipinska@wim.mil.pl

Pulmonary arterial hypertension (PAH) belongs to the group of rare diseases and 
the morbidity rate is 15 to 50 people per million per year. Before the era of 
specific treatment of PAH, the prognosis was poor. The average life expectancy 
of the patients was 2.8 years. However, in the last years there has been a 
breakthrough in treating the patients with PAH. The introduction of this 
specific treatment has prolonged the life and improved the quality of it within 
the group of the patients with PAH. In Poland, since 2008 the therapy has been 
organized by the Pulmonary Hypertension Therapeutic Program. PAH is a 
recognition done by excluding more probable causes of pulmonary hypertension 
(PH) such as: PH due to left heart disease and lung disease, chronic 
thromboembolic pulmonary hypertension (CTEPH) and PH with multifactorial 
mechanisms. The clinical symptoms of pulmonary hypertension are non-specific, 
they develop for a several months and they are mainly caused by progressive 
right ventricular failure. The base of PAH recognition is echocardiography, 
which indirectly estimates the pulmonary artery systolic pressure. However, the 
golden standard of PAH diagnostics is right heart catheterization (RHC) with 
measurements of pulmonary arterial pressure (PAP), right atrial pressure (RAP), 
right ventricular pressure and pulmonary wedge pressure (PWP). The early PAH 
recognition and the correct classification of patients to the treatment 
organized by the Pulmonary Hypertension Therapeutic Program give them a chance 
for longer and more comfortable life.

PMID: 23882936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Am J Kidney Dis. 2013 Aug;62(2):395-6. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2013.04.025.

Overestimation of life expectancy in CKD.

Shavelle R.

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2013 Aug;62(2):396.

Comment on
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2013 Apr;61(4):646-8.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2013.04.025
PMID: 23883660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Am J Kidney Dis. 2013 Aug;62(2):396. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2013.05.011.

In reply to 'Overestimation of life expectancy in CKD'.

Turin TC, Hemmelgarn BR.

Comment on
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2013 Apr;61(4):646-8.
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2013 Aug;62(2):395-6.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2013.05.011
PMID: 23883661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2013 Sep;19(10):2182-9. doi:
10.1097/MIB.0b013e31829c01ef.

Feasibility of venous thromboembolism prophylaxis during inflammatory bowel 
disease flares in the outpatient setting: a decision analysis.

Nguyen GC(1), Sharma S.

Author information:
(1)Mount Sinai Hospital's Centre for Inflammatory Bowel Disease, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. geoff.nguyen@utoronto.ca

BACKGROUND: Inflammatory bowel disease (IBD) patients are at increased risk of 
venous thromboembolism (VTE), which is most pronounced during a disease flare. 
We explored the cost-effectiveness of pharmacological VTE prophylaxis in an 
outpatient setting.
METHODS: Markov decision analysis was conducted from a societal perspective to 
compare the relative costs and effectiveness of pharmacological VTE prophylaxis 
versus no anticoagulation during ambulatory IBD flares among a hypothetical 
cohort of 10,000 IBD patients. The time horizon was from time of IBD diagnosis 
until death. Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In base case analysis, VTE prophylaxis was, compared with no 
anticoagulation, associated with higher average costs (U.S. $141,036 versus 
$90,338) and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) (22.29 versus 22.25), yielding 
an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $1,267,450/QALY. Venous 
thromboembolism prophylaxis resulted in higher unadjusted life-years (47.76 
life-years versus 46.67 life-years) and lower lifetime risk of VTE (6.2% versus 
9.3%). The number needed to treat to prevent one VTE event over a lifetime was 
32.3. Univariate sensitivity analysis showed that the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was most sensitive to variations in the efficacy of VTE 
prophylaxis. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, only 20% of 1000 simulated 
trials showed that VTE prophylaxis increased QALYs. In the remaining 80%, it was 
associated with both higher costs and fewer QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the administration of pharmacological VTE prophylaxis 
during IBD flares in the outpatient setting was associated with increased 
life-years and reduced VTE events, it was not cost effective. Moreover, the 
benefits of VTE prophylaxis were not robust to probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0b013e31829c01ef
PMID: 23883960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Med Econ. 2013 Oct;16(10):1246-54. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.829079. Epub
 2013 Sep 11.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of solifenacin versus oxybutynin immediate-release 
in the treatment of patients with overactive bladder in the United Kingdom.

Hart WM(1), Abrams P, Munro V, Retsa P, Nazir J.

Author information:
(1)EcoStat Consulting UK , Norfolk , UK.

OBJECTIVE: To carry out a cost-utility analysis comparing initial treatment with 
solifenacin 5 mg/day vs oxybutynin immediate-release (IR) 15 mg/day for the 
treatment of patients with overactive bladder (OAB) from the perspective of the 
U.K. National Health Service (NHS).
METHODS: A Markov model with six health states was developed to follow a cohort 
of OAB patients treated with either solifenacin or oxybutynin during a 1-year 
period. Costs and utilities were accumulated as patients transited through the 
health states in the model and a drop-out state. Some of the solifenacin 
patients were titrated from 5 mg to 10 mg/day at 8 weeks. A proportion of 
drop-out patients were assumed to continue treatment with tolterodine ER. 
Utility values were obtained from a Swedish study and pad use was based on a 
multinational clinical trial. Adherence rates for individual treatments were 
derived from a U.K. database study. For pad use and utility values, the drop-out 
state was split between those patients who were no longer receiving treatment 
and those on second-line therapy. Patients on second-line therapy who drop-out 
were referred for a specialist visit. Results were expressed in terms of 
incremental cost-utility ratios.
RESULTS: Total annual costs for solifenacin and oxybutynin were £504.30 and 
£364.19, respectively. First-line drug use represents 49% and 4% of costs and 
pad use represent 23% and 40% of costs for solifenacin and oxybutynin, 
respectively. Differences between cumulative utilities were small but were 
greater for solifenacin (0.7020 vs. 0.6907). The baseline incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was £12,309/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Under the baseline assumptions, solifenacin would appear to be 
cost-effective with an incremental cost-utility of less than £20,000/QALY. 
However, small differences in utility between the alternatives and the large 
number of drop-outs means that the results are sensitive to small adjustments in 
the values of utilities assigned to the drop-out state.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.829079
PMID: 23885660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. BMC Res Notes. 2013 Jul 26;6:294. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-6-294.

Role of the Candida albicans MNN1 gene family in cell wall structure and 
virulence.

Bates S(1), Hall RA, Cheetham J, Netea MG, MacCallum DM, Brown AJ, Odds FC, Gow 
NA.

Author information:
(1)College of Life and Environmental Sciences, University of Exeter, Exeter, EX4 
4QD, UK. s.bates@ex.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: The Candida albicans cell wall is the first point of contact with 
the host, and its outer surface is heavily enriched in mannoproteins modified 
through the addition of N- and O-mannan. Previous work, using mutants with gross 
defects in glycosylation, has clearly identified the importance of mannan in the 
host-pathogen interaction, immune recognition and virulence. Here we report the 
first analysis of the MNN1 gene family, which contains six members predicted to 
act as α-1,3 mannosyltransferases in the terminal stages of glycosylation.
FINDINGS: We generated single null mutants in all members of the C. albicans 
MNN1 gene family, and disruption of MNN14 led to both in vitro and in vivo 
defects. Null mutants in other members of the family demonstrated no phenotypic 
defects, suggesting that these members may display functional redundancy. The 
mnn14Δ null mutant displayed hypersensitivity to agents associated with cell 
wall and glycosylation defects, suggesting an altered cell wall structure. 
However, no gross changes in cell wall composition or N-glycosylation were 
identified in this mutant, although an extension of phosphomannan chain length 
was apparent. Although the cell wall defects associated with the mnn14Δ mutant 
were subtle, this mutant displayed a severe attenuation of virulence in a murine 
infection model.
CONCLUSION: Mnn14 plays a distinct role from other members of the MNN1 family, 
demonstrating that specific N-glycan outer chain epitopes are required in the 
host-pathogen interaction and virulence.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-6-294
PMCID: PMC3750861
PMID: 23886038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Jul;17(31):1-278. doi: 10.3310/hta17310.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of first-line chemotherapy for 
adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung cancer: a 
systematic review and economic evaluation.

Brown T(1), Pilkington G, Bagust A, Boland A, Oyee J, Tudur-Smith C, Blundell M, 
Lai M, Martin Saborido C, Greenhalgh J, Dundar Y, Dickson R.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group (LRiG), Institute of Psychology, 
Health and Society, Department of Health Services Research, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.

Erratum in
    Health Technol Assess. 2015 May;17(31):281-2.

BACKGROUND: The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) has 
issued multiple guidance for the first-line management of patients with lung 
cancer and recommends different combinations of chemotherapy treatments. This 
review provides a synthesis of clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
evidence supporting current guidance.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
first-line chemotherapy currently licensed in Europe and recommended by NICE, 
for adult patients with locally advanced or metastatic non-small cell lung 
cancer (NSCLC).
DATA SOURCES: Three electronic databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE and The Cochrane 
Library) were searched from 2001 to August 2010.
REVIEW METHODS: Trials that compared first-line chemotherapy currently licensed 
in Europe and recommended by NICE in chemotherapy-naive adult patients with 
locally advanced or metastatic NSCLC were included. Data on key outcomes 
including, but not limited to, overall survival (OS), progression-free survival 
(PFS) and adverse events (AEs) were extracted. For the assessment of 
cost-effectiveness, outcomes included incremental cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained. Analyses were performed for three NSCLC subpopulations: 
patients with predominantly squamous disease, patients with predominantly 
non-squamous disease and patients with epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) 
mutation-positive (M+) status. Meta-analysis and mixed-treatment comparison 
methodology were conducted where appropriate.
RESULTS: Twenty-three trials involving > 11,000 patients in total met the 
inclusion criteria. The quality of the trials was poor. In the case of patients 
with squamous disease, there were no statistically significant differences in OS 
between treatment regimes. The mixed-treatment comparison demonstrated that, in 
patients with non-squamous disease, pemetrexed (Alimta®, Eli Lilly and Company; 
PEM) + platinum (PLAT) increases OS statistically significantly compared with 
gemcitabine (Gemzar®, Eli Lilly and Company; GEM) + PLAT [hazard ratio (HR) = 
0.85; 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.74 to 0.98] and that paclitaxel (Abraxane®, 
Celgene Corporation; PAX) + PLAT increases OS statistically significantly 
compared with docetaxel (Taxotere®, Sanofi-aventis; DOC) + PLAT (HR = 0.79, 95% 
CI 0.66 to 0.93). None of the comparisons found any statistically significant 
differences in OS among patients with EGFR M+ status. Direct meta-analysis 
showed a statistically significant improvement in PFS with gefitinib (Iressa®, 
AstraZeneca; GEF) compared with DOC + PLAT and PAX + PLAT (HR = 0.49; 95% CI 
0.33 to 0.73; and HR = 0.38; 95% CI 0.24 to 0.60, respectively). No papers 
related to UK decision-making were identified. A de novo economic model was 
developed. Using list prices (British National Formulary), cisplatin (CIS) 
doublets are preferable to carboplatin doublets, but this is reversed if 
electronic market information tool prices are used, in which case drug 
administration costs then become more important than drug acquisition costs. For 
patients with both squamous and non-squamous disease, moving from low to 
moderate willingness-to-pay thresholds, the preferred drugs are PAX → GEM → DOC. 
However, in patients with non-squamous disease, PEM + CIS resulted in increased 
OS and would be considered cost-effective up to £35,000 per QALY gained. For 
patients with EGFR M+, use of GEF compared with PAX or DOC yields very high 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. Vinorelbine (Navelbine®, Pierre Fabre 
Pharmaceutical Inc.) was not shown to be cost-effective in any comparison.
LIMITATIONS: Poor trial quality and a lack of evidence for all drug comparisons 
complicated and limited the data analysis. Outcomes and adverse effects are not 
consistently combined across the trials. Few trials reported quality-of-life 
data despite their relevance to patients and clinicians.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this comprehensive review are unique to NSCLC and 
will assist clinicians to make decisions regarding the treatment of patients 
with advanced NSCLC. The design of future lung cancer trials needs to reflect 
the influence of factors such as histology, genetics and the new prognostic 
biomarkers that are currently being identified. In addition, trials will need to 
be adequately powered so as to be able to test for statistically significant 
clinical effectiveness differences within patient populations. New initiatives 
are in place to record detailed information on the precise chemotherapy (and 
targeted chemotherapy) regimens being used, together with data on age, cell 
type, stage of disease and performance status, allowing for very detailed 
observational audits of management and outcomes at a population level. It would 
be useful if these initiatives could be expanded to include the collection of 
health economics data.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology 
Assessment.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17310
PMCID: PMC4781689
PMID: 23886301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Med Decis Making. 2013 Oct;33(7):891-905. doi: 10.1177/0272989X13497262.
Epub  2013 Jul 25.

Medical therapy v. PCI in stable coronary artery disease: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Wijeysundera HC(1)(2)(3)(4), Tomlinson G(2)(3)(4), Ko DT(1)(3)(4)(5), Dzavik 
V(3)(6), Krahn MD(2)(3)(4)(5)(6)(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiology, Schulich Heart Centre and Department of Medicine, 
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, University of Toronto, ON, Canada (HCW, DTK).
(2)Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment (THETA) Collaborative, 
University of Toronto, ON, Canada (HCW, GT, MDK)
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, ON, Canada (HCW, GT, DTK, VD, 
MDK)
(4)Department of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, ON, Canada (HCW, GT, DTK, MDK)
(5)Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, ON, Canada (DTK, MDK)
(6)University Health Network–Toronto General Hospital, ON, Canada (VD, MDK)
(7)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, ON, Canada (MDK)

BACKGROUND: Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) with either drug-eluting 
stents (DES) or bare metal stents (BMS) reduces angina and repeat procedures 
compared with optimal medical therapy alone. It remains unclear if these 
benefits are sufficient to offset their increased costs and small increase in 
adverse events.
OBJECTIVE: Cost utility analysis of initial medical therapy v. PCI with either 
BMS or DES.
DESIGN: . Markov cohort decision model. Data Sources. Propensity-matched 
observational data from Ontario, Canada, for baseline event rates. Effectiveness 
and utility data obtained from the published literature, with costs from the 
Ontario Case Costing Initiative.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients with stable coronary artery disease, confirmed after 
angiography, stratified by risk of restenosis based on diabetic status, lesion 
size, and lesion length. Time Horizon. Lifetime. Perspective. Ontario Ministry 
of Health and Long Term Care. Interventions. Optimal medical therapy, PCI with 
BMS or DES.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Lifetime costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: of Base Case Analysis. In the overall population, medical therapy had 
the lowest lifetime costs at $22,952 v. $25,081 and $25,536 for BMS and DES, 
respectively. Medical therapy had a quality-adjusted life expectancy of 10.1 v. 
10.26 QALYs for BMS, producing an ICER of $13,271/QALY. The DES strategy had a 
quality-adjusted life expectancy of only 10.20 QALYs and was dominated by the 
BMS strategy. This ranking was consistent in all groups stratified by restenosis 
risk, except diabetic patients with long lesions in small arteries, in whom DES 
was cost-effective compared with medical therapy (ICER of $18,826/QALY). 
Limitations. There is the possibility of residual unobserved confounding.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with stable coronary artery disease, an initial BMS 
strategy is cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X13497262
PMID: 23886676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Med Decis Making. 2014 Jan;34(1):21-32. doi: 10.1177/0272989X13497263. Epub
2013  Jul 25.

Health status utilities in pediatrics: a systematic review of acute 
lymphoblastic leukemia.

van Litsenburg RR(1), Kunst A(2), Huisman J(3), Ket JC(4), Kaspers GJ(1), Gemke 
RJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Oncology-Hematology, VU University 
Medical Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands (RRLVL, GJLK).
(2)Department of Pediatrics, VU University Medical Center Amsterdam, Amsterdam, 
the Netherlands (AK, RJBJG)
(3)Department of Pediatric Psychology & Social Work, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands (JH)
(4)VU University Library Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands (JCFK)

BACKGROUND: Measuring utilities and health-related quality of life (HRQL) in 
children is challenging due to their cognitive abilities and changing 
developmental stages.
PURPOSE: . To identify methodological issues on utility measurements in 
children, we performed a systematic review on utilities measured with a single 
instrument, the Health Utilities Index (HUI), in pediatric acute lymphoblastic 
leukemia (ALL). The secondary goal was to facilitate future cost-utility 
analyses without the need for time-consuming assessments. Data Sources. PubMed, 
Embase, Cochrane Library, CINAHL, and PsycINFO were searched from inception to 
June 2012. Studies had to report on utility scores in pediatric ALL, either on 
or after treatment, to be included.
RESULTS: . Fifteen studies were included. Most studies had methodological 
shortcomings, which mainly concerned
STUDY DESIGN: and definition and representativeness of the study group. Utility 
scores were dependent on treatment variables, and there generally was an 
improvement in HRQL as treatment or survivorship advanced. In general, 
proxy-respondents were less reliable for subjective phenomena than for 
observable conditions. HUI2 and HUI3 scores were not interchangeable. 
Limitations. Studies may have been missed because no validated search method for 
utility studies exists, due to language bias or the exclusion of 
non-peer-reviewed papers.
CONCLUSIONS: . Most studies in this review were methodologically suboptimal. 
Future developments should focus on including developmentally appropriate items 
for the whole pediatric age group. Adding disease-specific domains may enhance 
the sensitivity and responsiveness of instruments. Efforts should be undertaken 
to elicit valuation of health states from older children and teenagers as much 
as possible. For now, it remains difficult to make valid and informed decisions 
on the financing of interventions until health state valuation in children has 
become more methodologically robust.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X13497263
PMID: 23886678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. J Occup Environ Med. 2013 Aug;55(8):910-6. doi:
10.1097/JOM.0b013e31828dc9ea.

Nonwage losses associated with occupational injury among health care workers.

Guzman J(1), Ibrahimova A, Tompa E, Koehoorn M, Alamgir H.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada. 
jguzman@cw.bc.ca

OBJECTIVE: To examine nonwage losses after occupational injury among health care 
workers and the factors associated with the magnitude of these losses.
METHODS: Inception cohort of workers filing an occupational injury claim in a 
Canadian province. Worker self-reports were used to calculate (1) the nonwage 
economic losses in 2010 Canadian dollars, and (2) the number of quality-adjusted 
days of life lost on the basis of the EuroQOL Index.
RESULTS: Most workers (84%; n = 123) had musculoskeletal injuries (MSIs). Each 
MSI resulted in nonwage economic losses of Can$3131 (95% confidence interval, 
Can$3035 to Can$3226), lost wages of Can$5286, and 7.9 quality-adjusted days of 
life lost within 12 weeks after injury. Losses varied with type of injury, 
region of the province, and occupation. Non-MSIs were associated with smaller 
losses.
CONCLUSIONS: These estimates of nonwage losses should be considered in workers' 
injury compensation policies and in economic evaluation studies.

DOI: 10.1097/JOM.0b013e31828dc9ea
PMID: 23887695 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Orthopade. 2013 Sep;42(9):725-33. doi: 10.1007/s00132-013-2067-3.

[Prognosis scores for spinal metastases].

[Article in German]

von der Höh NH(1), Gulow J, Tschöke SK, Völker A, Heyde CE.

Author information:
(1)Orthopädische Klinik und Poliklinik, Universität Leipzig, Liebigstr. 20, 
04103, Leipzig, Deutschland. nicolas.vonderHoeh@medizin.uni-leipzig.de

Advances in early detection and therapy of spinal metastasis have improved life 
expectancy of patients with various tumor entities. However, this and the 
demographic development have led to an increased risk for developing spinal 
metastases. Numerous prognostic factors have been determined to allow an 
assessment of outcome and survival time of patients with metastatic spinal 
tumors. The implementation of these factors into different scoring systems has 
been encouraging in the decision making process of spinal surgery. This overview 
highlights some of the most important prognostic factors and scores which may 
facilitate surgical considerations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-013-2067-3
PMID: 23887849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Rev Med Liege. 2013 May-Jun;68(5-6):239-44.

[Addictions and pregnancy : how to ruin a pregnancy].

[Article in French]

Emonts P(1), Masson V, Chantraine F, Kridelka F, Nisolle M.

Author information:
(1)Universite de Liege, Chef de Clinique, Service de Gynecologie-Obstetrique, 
CHU de Liege, site NDB et CHR Citadelle, Belgique. patrick.emonts@chu.ulg.ac.be

Pregnant women are well aware that any addiction during pregnancy can be harmful 
to the child. In spite of this knowledge, many continue to smoke, to drink 
alcohol, to consume illicit drugs or to absorb medicines because these 
dependences are particularly strong. Tobacco, alcohol, cocaine and ecstasy 
represent the most dangerous substances as regards foetal damage. The period of 
pregnancy is the optimal moment to stop these addictions. It is therefore 
essential to raise awareness among the general public, policy makers, and 
physicians of the fact that addictions during pregnancy cause a disparity in 
terms of future health and life expectancy of the unborn child.

PMID: 23888571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Blood Press. 2014 Apr;23(2):81-8. doi: 10.3109/08037051.2013.814234. Epub
2013  Jul 29.

What do we actually know about the relationship between arterial hypertension 
and atrial fibrillation?

Tadic M(1), Ivanovic B, Cuspidi C.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Hospital Center "Dragisa Misovic", Department of Cardiology, Heroja 
Milana Tepica 1, University of Belgrade , 11000 Belgrade , Serbia.

Arterial hypertension and atrial fibrillation (AF) are very prevalent 
cardiovascular diseases, commonly seen together. Considering the fact that 
frequency of these medical conditions is constantly increasing due to human life 
extension, AF will be one of the major risks of cardiovascular morbidity and 
mortality in the future. Several pathophysiological mechanisms have been 
proposed to explain the onset of AF in arterial hypertension, and there are 
numerous theories that explain the protective effect of 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system (RAAS) blockade on new-onset AF. However, 
the consensus on pathophysiology and the favorable effect of RAAS blockade on AF 
development is still missing. On the other hand, large clinical trials and 
meta-analyses demonstrated a positive effect of angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers on AF prevention, which is why 
these drugs are included in the current guidelines for arterial hypertension, 
and will probably be better positioned in the new guidelines, which will be 
published this year. The recent studies have also shown a preventive effect of 
other antihypertensive drugs on AF occurrence and demonstrated that aggressive 
approach to hypertensive patients with AF is very important not only for 
conversion into sinus rhythm, but also for sinus rhythm maintenance.

DOI: 10.3109/08037051.2013.814234
PMID: 23888841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Nutr Hosp. 2013 Jul-Aug;28(4):1280-5. doi: 10.3305/nh.2013.28.4.6494.

Predicting survival of endoscopic gastrostomy candidates using the underlying 
disease, serum cholesterol, albumin and transferrin levels.

Fonseca J(1), Adriana Santos C, Brito J.

Author information:
(1)Hospital García de Orta, Lisboa, Portugal. jorgedafonseca@hotmail.com

BACKGROUND: Endoscopic gastrostomy (PEG) is the gold standard for long-term 
enteral feeding. An adequate PEG candidate must have life expectancy longer than 
a few weeks. Patients surviving less than three weeks should have a nasogastric 
tube, and gastrostomy should be avoid. There are few studies looking to 
prognostic factors and fewer attempts of creating a predictor model for PEG 
patient's survival.
AIM: The aim of this study was creating a predictive survival model for PEG 
candidates, using underlying disease, cholesterol, albumin and transferrin.
METHODS: Data was obtained from records of adult patients that underwent PEG 
between 1999 and 2011. Patients surviving < 3 weeks were considered short 
survivors; surviving ≥ 3 weeks were considered adequate survivors. A full 
logistic regression model was used to classify future cases into one of the two 
groups of survival.
RESULTS: An equation for the probability of future cases was generated, in order 
to obtain a P value. In the future, patients with a P ≥ 0,88 will have a 64,7% 
probability of adequate surviving; patients with a P < 0,88 will have a 70.3% 
probability of short surviving.
CONCLUSIONS: When clinical evaluation alone does not display a clear prognosis, 
this equation should be included in the evaluation of gastrostomy candidates, 
avoiding useless gastrostomy.

Publisher: Introducción: La Gastrostomia Endoscópica Percutánea (PEG) es una 
técnica de elección para la nutrición enteral de largo plazo, pero en pacientes 
con una perspectiva de vida menor que tres semanas debe evitarse la gastrostomia 
e utilizarse la sonda nasogástrica. Existen pocos estudios que tengan en cuenta 
factores de pronóstico y pocos intentos de crear un modelo predictivo de 
supervivencia de estos pacientes. Objetivo: Crear un modelo predictivo de la 
sobrevida de los candidatos a PEG, utilizando la enfermedad de base, los niveles 
de colesterol, albúmina y transferrina. Métodos: Los datos han sido recogidos de 
los registros clínicos de adultos sometidos a PEG entre 1999 y 2011. Los que han 
sobrevivido menos de 3 semanas se han considerado como sin supervivencia 
adecuada (short survivors); los que han sobrevivido más de 3 semanas se 
consideraran como teniendo sobrevivencia adecuada (adequate survivors). Se 
utilizó un modelo estadístico de regresión para clasificar pacientes futuros en 
cada uno de los grupos definidos anteriormente. Resultados: De este análisis 
estadístico resultó una ecuación que permite obtener un valor de P, para 
determinar la probabilidad de futuros casos. En el futuro se puede predecir que 
pacientes con un valor de P ≥0,88 tendrán 64,7% de probabilidades de 
supervivencia adecuada; los pacientes con un valor de P < 0,88 tendrán 70,3% de 
probabilidades de supervivencia no adecuada. Conclusiones: Cuando la evaluación 
clínica por si sola no es suficiente para predecir un pronóstico fiable, esta 
ecuación debe ser incluida en la evaluación de los pacientes candidatos a 
gastrostomia, para evitar gastrostomías inútiles.

Copyright © AULA MEDICA EDICIONES 2013. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.3305/nh.2013.28.4.6494
PMID: 23889653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2013 Sep;38(6):611-8. doi: 10.1111/apt.12430. Epub
2013  Jul 29.

Statin use and infections in Veterans with cirrhosis.

Motzkus-Feagans C(1), Pakyz AL, Ratliff SM, Bajaj JS, Lapane KL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Quantitative Health Sciences, University of Massachusetts 
Medical School, Worcester, MA, USA.

BACKGROUND: Evidence about the beneficial effects of statins on reducing 
infections is accumulating. Identifying ways to reduce infection risk in 
patients with cirrhosis is important because of increased mortality risk and 
costs associated with infections.
AIM: To estimate the extent to which statin use prolongs time to infection among 
patients with cirrhosis.
METHODS: We identified Veterans with cirrhosis, but without decompensation 
(n = 19 379) using US Veterans Health Administration data from 2001 to 2009. New 
users of statins were identified and propensity matched to non-users and users 
of other cholesterol-lowering medications (1:1 matching). The cohort was 
followed up for hospitalisations with infections. Cox regression models with 
time-varying exposures provided estimates of adjusted hazard ratios (HR) and 95% 
confidence intervals (CI).
RESULTS: New statin use was present among 13% of VA patients with cirrhosis 
without decompensation. Overall, 12.4% of patients developed a serious 
infection, and 0.1% of patients died. In the propensity-matched sample, statin 
users experienced hospitalisations with infections at a rate 0.67 less than 
non-users (95% Confidence Interval: 0.47-0.95).
CONCLUSIONS: Infections are a major concern among cirrhotic patients and have 
the potential to seriously impact both life expectancy and quality of life. 
Statin use may potentially reduce the risk of infections among patients with 
cirrhosis.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12430
PMID: 23889738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. J Prosthodont. 2014 Feb;23(2):83-8. doi: 10.1111/jopr.12089. Epub 2013 Jul
25.

A retrospective analysis of 800 Brånemark System implants following the 
All-on-Four™ protocol.

Balshi TJ(1), Wolfinger GJ, Slauch RW, Balshi SF.

Author information:
(1)Founder and Prosthodontist, PI Dental Center at the Institute for Facial 
Esthetics, Fort Washington, PA.

PURPOSE: The purpose of this study was to retrospectively evaluate implant 
survival rates in patients treated with the All-on-Four™ protocol according to 
edentulous jaws, gender, and implant orientation (tilted vs. axial).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: All Brånemark System implants placed in patients 
following the All-on-Four™ protocol in a single private practice were separated 
into multiple classifications (maxilla vs. mandible; male vs. female; tilted vs. 
axial) by retrospective patient chart review. Inclusion criteria consisted of 
any Brånemark System implant placed with the All-on-Four™ protocol from the 
clinical inception (May 2005) until December 2011. Life tables were constructed 
to determine cumulative implant survival rates (CSR). The arches, genders, and 
implant orientations were statistically compared with ANOVA.
RESULTS: One hundred fifty-two patients, comprising 200 arches (800 implants) 
from May 2005 until December 2011, were included in the study. Overall implant 
CSR was 97.3% (778 of 800). Two hundred eighty-nine of 300 maxillary implants 
and 489 of 500 mandibular implants survived, for CSRs of 96.3% and 97.8%, 
respectively. In male patients, 251 of 256 implants (98.1%) remain in function 
while 527 of 544 implants (96.9%) in female patients survived. Regarding implant 
orientation, 389 of 400 tilted implants and 389 of 400 axial implants 
osseointegrated, for identical CSRs of 97.3%. All comparisons were found to be 
statistically insignificant. The prosthesis survival rate was 99.0%.
CONCLUSIONS: The results from this study suggest that edentulous jaws, gender, 
and implant orientation are not significant parameters when formulating an 
All-on-Four™ treatment plan. The high CSRs for each variable analyzed 
demonstrate the All-on-Four™ treatment as a viable alternative to more extensive 
protocols for rehabilitating the edentulous maxilla or mandible.

© 2013 by the American College of Prosthodontists.

DOI: 10.1111/jopr.12089
PMID: 23890014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Anal Chim Acta. 2013 Aug 12;791:13-24. doi: 10.1016/j.aca.2013.06.026. Epub
2013  Jun 26.

Global, local and unique decompositions in OnPLS for multiblock data analysis.

Löfstedt T(1), Hoffman D, Trygg J.

Author information:
(1)Computational Life Science Cluster (CLiC), Department of Chemistry, Umeå 
University, Umeå, Sweden.

OnPLS is an extension of O2PLS that decomposes a set of matrices, in either 
multiblock or path model analysis, such that each matrix consists of two parts: 
a globally joint part containing variation shared with all other connected 
matrices, and a part that contains locally joint and unique variation, i.e. 
variation that is shared with some, but not all, other connected matrices or 
that is unique in a single matrix. A further extension of OnPLS suggested here 
decomposes the part that is not globally joint into locally joint and unique 
parts. To achieve this it uses the OnPLS method to first find and extract a 
globally joint model, and then applies OnPLS recursively to subsets of matrices 
that contain the locally joint and unique variation remaining after the globally 
joint variation has been extracted. This results in a set of locally joint 
models. The variation that is left after the globally joint and locally joint 
variation has been extracted is (by construction) not related to the other 
matrices and thus represents the strictly unique variation in each matrix. The 
method's utility is demonstrated by its application to both a simulated data set 
and a real data set acquired from metabolomic, proteomic and transcriptomic 
profiling of three genotypes of hybrid aspen. The results show that OnPLS can 
successfully decompose each matrix into global, local and unique models, 
resulting in lower numbers of globally joint components and higher 
intercorrelations of scores. OnPLS also increases the interpretability of models 
of connected matrices, because of the locally joint and unique models it 
generates.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.aca.2013.06.026
PMID: 23890602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Am J Cardiol. 2013 Nov 1;112(9):1311-4. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2013.05.075.
Epub  2013 Jul 25.

Life-years gained by smoking cessation after percutaneous coronary intervention.

de Boer SP(1), Serruys PW, Valstar G, Lenzen MJ, de Jaegere PJ, Zijlstra F, 
Boersma E, van Domburg RT; interventional cardiologists of the Thoraxcentre 1980 
to 1985.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Thoraxcenter, Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Previous studies have shown that smoking cessation after a cardiac event reduces 
the risk of subsequent mortality in patients. The aim of this study was to 
describe the effect of smoking cessation in terms of prolonged life-years 
gained. The study sample comprised 856 patients who underwent percutaneous 
coronary intervention (PCI; balloon angioplasty) during 1980 to 1985. Patients 
were followed up for 30 years and smoking status at 1 year could be retrieved in 
806 patients. The 27 patients who died within 1 year were excluded from the 
analysis. The median follow-up was 19.5 years (interquartile range 6.0 to 23.0). 
Cumulative 30-year survival rate was 29% in the group of patients who quit 
smoking and 14% in persistent smokers (p = 0.005). After adjustment for baseline 
characteristics at the time of PCI, smoking cessation remained an independent 
predictor of lesser mortality (adjusted hazard ratio 0.57, 95% confidence 
interval 0.46 to 0.71). The estimated life expectancy was 18.5 years in those 
who quit smoking and 16.4 years in the persistent smokers (p <0.0001). In 
conclusion, in patients with coronary heart disease who underwent PCI in the 
late 1980s, smoking cessation resulted in at least 2.1 life-years gained.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2013.05.075
PMID: 23891246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


