OBJECTIVE: To test whether quality adjusted life expectancy (QALE) was a useful 
indicator of health inequalities.
METHODS: EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire data from a well-being survey 
was combined with actuarial life expectancy (LE) data to estimate healthy LE 
(HLE), that is, years of life lived in good health, and QALE, that is, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) lived for Wirral, a borough in the north 
west of England.
RESULTS: The gap between Wirral and the most deprived areas was 4.45 years for 
LE, 5.34 for QALE, and 7.55 for HLE. The gap in QALE was 20% greater than the 
gap in LE, while the gap in HLE was 70% greater.
CONCLUSIONS: The fact that the QALE gap value lies between the HLE value and the 
LE value suggests that QALE is a more sensitive indicator than HLE, as in this 
study QALE is derived from 243 possible EuroQol five-dimensional questionnaire 
profiles whereas HLE is based only on whether or not an individual rates his or 
her health as good, a binary variable. This study discusses how QALE could be a 
useful indicator for measuring health inequalities in future, especially as cost 
utility and QALYs are seen as the gold standard used by the National Institute 
for Health and Clinical Excellence in the United Kingdom to measure outcomes for 
health interventions in England, and discusses how a monetary valuation of QALYs 
could be used to put a societal cost on health inequalities.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.01.004
PMID: 23796294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Value Health. 2013 Jun;16(4):629-38. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.02.011. Epub
2013  May 10.

Illustrating potential efficiency gains from using cost-effectiveness evidence 
to reallocate Medicare expenditures.

Chambers JD(1), Lord J, Cohen JT, Neumann PJ, Buxton MJ.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK. 
jchambers@tuftsmedicalcenter.org

OBJECTIVES: The Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services does not explicitly use 
cost-effectiveness information in national coverage determinations. The 
objective of this study was to illustrate potential efficiency gains from 
reallocating Medicare expenditures by using cost-effectiveness information, and 
the consequences for health gains among Medicare beneficiaries.
METHODS: We included national coverage determinations from 1999 through 2007. 
Estimates of cost-effectiveness were identified through a literature review. For 
coverage decisions with an associated cost-effectiveness estimate, we estimated 
utilization and size of the "unserved" eligible population by using a Medicare 
claims database (2007) and diagnostic and reimbursement codes. Technology costs 
originated from the cost-effectiveness literature or were estimated by using 
reimbursement codes. We illustrated potential aggregate health gains from 
increasing utilization of dominant interventions (i.e., cost saving and health 
increasing) and from reallocating expenditures by decreasing investment in 
cost-ineffective interventions and increasing investment in relatively 
cost-effective interventions.
RESULTS: Complete information was available for 36 interventions. Increasing 
investment in dominant interventions alone led to an increase of 270,000 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and savings of $12.9 billion. Reallocation 
of a broader array of interventions yielded an additional 1.8 million QALYs, 
approximately 0.17 QALYs per affected Medicare beneficiary. Compared with the 
distribution of resources prior to reallocation, following reallocation a 
greater proportion was directed to oncology, diagnostic imaging/tests, and the 
most prevalent diseases. A smaller proportion of resources went to cardiology, 
treatments (including drugs, surgeries, and medical devices, as opposed to 
nontreatments such as preventive services), and the least prevalent diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: Using cost-effectiveness information has the potential to increase 
the aggregate health of Medicare beneficiaries while maintaining existing 
spending levels.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.02.011
PMID: 23796298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Curr Probl Dermatol. 2013;44:118-24. doi: 10.1159/000350055. Epub 2013 May
30.

Cumulative life course impairment in melanoma and nonmelanoma skin cancer.

Piaserico S(1).

Author information:
(1)Dermatology Unit, Department of Medicine, University of Padova, Padova, 
Italy. stefano.piaserico@gmail.com

Patients with skin cancer remain at risk for disease progression or relapse for 
many years. Therefore, skin cancer may be considered a chronic, life-threatening 
disease. It could impact on patients lifestyles and social and professional 
activities. Although no direct study of cumulative life course impairment (CLCI) 
in skin cancer patients has been carried out, a few studies suggest that skin 
cancer may strongly impair quality of life and eventually determine a 
significant CLCI (melanoma more than nonmelanoma skin cancer). Obviously, the 
life course of patients with melanoma at an advanced stage of the disease may 
change considerably. A number of cancer-associated problems may determine a 
CLCI, including familial or professional changes and a reduction of life 
expectancy may eventually lead to social withdrawal and depressive disorders. 
Even patients with a low stage disease may experience an important impairment of 
quality of life and in some cases a CLCI. Some skin cancer patients may have 
physical and psychological after effects from their cancer surgery. Several 
patients complain about lymphedema, discomfort experienced from wearing surgical 
stockings, and diminished range of physical motion postsurgery. A few are 
concerned about their body image due to surgical scars, and they may consider 
changing their job position because of the supposed negative impact of scars in 
visible sites on their ability to perform their job. Some female melanoma 
survivors may have a reduced desire of having children in the future.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000350055
PMID: 23796815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Curr Probl Dermatol. 2013;44:137-44. doi: 10.1159/000350178. Epub 2013 May
24.

Cumulative life course impairment across cultures and medical systems.

Lima XT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Faculty of Medical Sciences, State University of 
Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brazil. xtlima@gmail.com

Life course epidemiology is very important in the evaluation of chronic diseases 
and their long term physical, psychological, cognitive and social consequences. 
However, chronic dermatologic diseases can have a different impact on quality of 
life depending on patients' cultures and medical systems. Conversely, cultural, 
social and economic factors over life may lead to even greater health 
disparities. Moreover, individuals with same diseases and disease severities, 
but with diverse cultural backgrounds and medical systems, may value health 
differently and this has to be taken into account when performing multinational 
studies of cumulative life course impairment. Some processes and concepts 
involved in cross-cultural comparison of quality of life studies are described 
here, including the small number of international studies that have been 
performed to evaluate quality of life instruments across different cultures to 
date. Cross-cultural impact of dermatologic diseases on subjects' life as well 
as studies evaluation of different dermatology-specific quality of life 
instruments are discussed.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000350178
PMID: 23796818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. J Clin Oncol. 2013 Jul 20;31(21):2662-70. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2012.46.8652.
Epub  2013 Jun 24.

Role of reduced-intensity conditioning allogeneic hematopoietic stem-cell 
transplantation in older patients with de novo myelodysplastic syndromes: an 
international collaborative decision analysis.

Koreth J(1), Pidala J, Perez WS, Deeg HJ, Garcia-Manero G, Malcovati L, Cazzola 
M, Park S, Itzykson R, Ades L, Fenaux P, Jadersten M, Hellstrom-Lindberg E, Gale 
RP, Beach CL, Lee SJ, Horowitz MM, Greenberg PL, Tallman MS, DiPersio JF, Bunjes 
D, Weisdorf DJ, Cutler C.

Author information:
(1)Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, D1B05, 450 Brookline Ave, Boston, MA 02215, 
USA. jkoreth@partners.org

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2013 Jul 20;31(21):2643-4.
    Expert Rev Hematol. 2013 Oct;6(5):539-42.

PURPOSE: Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are clonal hematopoietic disorders that 
are more common in patients aged ≥ 60 years and are incurable with conventional 
therapies. Reduced-intensity conditioning (RIC) allogeneic hematopoietic 
stem-cell transplantation is potentially curative but has additional mortality 
risk. We evaluated RIC transplantation versus nontransplantation therapies in 
older patients with MDS stratified by International Prognostic Scoring System 
(IPSS) risk.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A Markov decision model with quality-of-life utility 
estimates for different MDS and transplantation states was assessed. Outcomes 
were life expectancy (LE) and quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE). A total 
of 514 patients with de novo MDS aged 60 to 70 years were evaluated. Chronic 
myelomonocytic leukemia, isolated 5q- syndrome, unclassifiable, and 
therapy-related MDS were excluded. Transplantation using T-cell depletion or 
HLA-mismatched or umbilical cord donors was also excluded. RIC transplantation 
(n = 132) stratified by IPSS risk was compared with best supportive care for 
patients with nonanemic low/intermediate-1 IPSS (n = 123), hematopoietic growth 
factors for patients with anemic low/intermediate-1 IPSS (n = 94), and 
hypomethylating agents for patients with intermediate-2/high IPSS (n = 165).
RESULTS: For patients with low/intermediate-1 IPSS MDS, RIC transplantation LE 
was 38 months versus 77 months with nontransplantation approaches. QALE and 
sensitivity analysis did not favor RIC transplantation across plausible utility 
estimates. For intermediate-2/high IPSS MDS, RIC transplantation LE was 36 
months versus 28 months for nontransplantation therapies. QALE and sensitivity 
analysis favored RIC transplantation across plausible utility estimates.
CONCLUSION: For patients with de novo MDS aged 60 to 70 years, favored 
treatments vary with IPSS risk. For low/intermediate-1 IPSS, nontransplantation 
approaches are preferred. For intermediate-2/high IPSS, RIC transplantation 
offers overall and quality-adjusted survival benefit.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2012.46.8652
PMCID: PMC3825320
PMID: 23797000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


350. Circulation. 2013 Aug 6;128(6):615-21. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.001811.

Drug-eluting balloon in peripheral intervention for below the knee angioplasty 
evaluation (DEBATE-BTK): a randomized trial in diabetic patients with critical 
limb ischemia.

Liistro F(1), Porto I, Angioli P, Grotti S, Ricci L, Ducci K, Falsini G, 
Ventoruzzo G, Turini F, Bellandi G, Bolognese L.

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular and Neurological Department, San Donato Hospital, Via Pietro 
Nenni 20, 52100, Arezzo, Italy. francescoliistro@hotmail.com

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2013 Aug;10(8):430.

BACKGROUND: The 1-year restenosis rate after balloon angioplasty of long lesions 
in below-the-knee arteries may be as high as 70%. Our aim was to investigate the 
efficacy of a paclitaxel drug-eluting balloons versus conventional percutaneous 
transluminal angioplasty (PTA) for the reduction of restenosis in diabetic 
patients with critical limb ischemia undergoing endovascular intervention of 
below-the-knee arteries.
METHODS AND RESULTS: The Drug-Eluting Balloon in Peripheral Intervention for 
below the knee angioplasty evaluation (DEBATE-BTK) is a randomized, open-label, 
single-center study comparing drug-eluting balloons and PTA. Inclusion criteria 
were diabetes mellitus, critical limb ischemia (Rutherford class 4 or higher), 
significant stenosis or occlusion >40 mm of at least 1 below-the-knee vessel 
with distal runoff, and life expectancy >1 year. Binary in-segment restenosis at 
a 1-year angiographic or ultrasonographic follow-up was the primary end point. 
Clinically driven target lesion revascularization, major amputation, and target 
vessel occlusion were the secondary end points. One hundred thirty-two patients 
with 158 infrapopliteal atherosclerotic lesions were enrolled. Mean length of 
the treated segments was 129±83 mm in the drug-eluting balloon group compared 
with 131±79 mm in the PTA group (P=0.7). Binary restenosis, assessed by 
angiography in >90% of patients, occurred in 20 of 74 lesions (27%) in the 
drug-eluting balloon group compared with 55 of 74 lesions (74%) in the PTA group 
(P<0.001); target lesion revascularization, in 12 (18%) versus 29 (43%; 
P=0.002); and target vessel occlusion, in 12 (17%) versus 41 (55%; P<0.001). 
Only 1 major amputation occurred, in the PTA group (P=0.9).
CONCLUSIONS: Drug-eluting balloons compared with PTA strikingly reduce 1-year 
restenosis, target lesion revascularization, and target vessel occlusion in the 
treatment of below-the-knee lesions in diabetic patients with critical limb 
ischemia.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.001811
PMID: 23797811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. J Hepatobiliary Pancreat Sci. 2014 Feb;21(2):98-104. doi: 10.1002/jhbp.2.
Epub  2013 Jun 20.

Patients with recurrent biliary tract cancer have a better prognosis than those 
with unresectable disease: retrospective analysis of a multi-institutional 
experience with patients of advanced biliary tract cancer who received 
palliative chemotherapy.

Ikezawa K(1), Kanai M, Ajiki T, Tsukamoto T, Toyokawa H, Terajima H, Furuyama H, 
Nagano H, Ikai I, Kuroda N, Awane M, Ochiai T, Takemura S, Miyamoto A, Kume M, 
Ogawa M, Takeda Y, Taira K, Ioka T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary and Pancreatic Oncology, Osaka Medical Center for 
Cancer and Cardiovascular Diseases, 1-3-3 Nakamichi, Higashinari-ku, Osaka, 
Osaka, 537-8511, Japan. ikezawakenji@gh.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Prognostic factors for patients with advanced biliary tract cancer 
(BTC) who received palliative chemotherapy have not been fully established. 
Especially, the status of unresectable/recurrent disease has not been well 
studied because of a small number of patients with recurrent BTC in previous 
studies.
METHODS: This multicenter retrospective study was conducted in 18 institutions 
in Japan. We retrospectively reviewed data regarding 403 patients with 
pathologically proven BTC who received palliative chemotherapy between April 
2006 and March 2009. One hundred and ninety-two patients with recurrent BTC were 
included. Univariate and multivariate analyses were performed to identify 
prognostic factors.
RESULTS: The median overall survival was significantly longer in the recurrent 
BTC patients than in the unresectable BTC patients (398 days vs. 323 days, 
P = 0.004). After adjustment using multivariate analysis, the status of 
recurrent/unresectable disease remained an independent prognostic factor (hazard 
ratio 1.33, 95% confidence interval 1.04-1.70, P = 0.022) in addition to 
performance status, extent of disease, carbohydrate antigen 19-9 levels, and 
carcinoembryonic antigen levels.
CONCLUSIONS: The status of unresectable/recurrent disease was shown as an 
independent prognostic factor in the BTC patients. This result may help to 
predict life expectancy of BTC patients and design future clinical trials 
evaluating palliative chemotherapy in BTC.

© 2013 Japanese Society of Hepato-Biliary-Pancreatic Surgery.

DOI: 10.1002/jhbp.2
PMID: 23798367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Health Phys. 2013 Aug;105(2):140-9. doi: 10.1097/HP.0b013e31828ca73a.

Workshop report on atomic bomb dosimetry-residual radiation exposure: recent 
research and suggestions for future studies.

Kerr GD(1), Egbert SD, Al-Nabulsi I, Beck HL, Cullings HM, Endo S, Hoshi M, 
Imanaka T, Kaul DC, Maruyama S, Reeves GI, Ruehm W, Sakaguchi A, Simon SL, 
Spriggs GD, Stram DO, Tonda T, Weiss JF, Weitz RL, Young RW.

Author information:
(1)Oak Ridge Associated Universities, Oak Ridge, TN 37831-0117, USA. 
George.Kerr@orau.org

There is a need for accurate dosimetry for studies of health effects in the 
Japanese atomic bomb survivors because of the important role that these studies 
play in worldwide radiation protection standards. International experts have 
developed dosimetry systems, such as the Dosimetry System 2002 (DS02), which 
assess the initial radiation exposure to gamma rays and neutrons but only 
briefly consider the possibility of some minimal contribution to the total body 
dose by residual radiation exposure. In recognition of the need for an 
up-to-date review of the topic of residual radiation exposure in Hiroshima and 
Nagasaki, recently reported studies were reviewed at a technical session at the 
57th Annual Meeting of the Health Physics Society in Sacramento, California, 
22-26 July 2012. A one-day workshop was also held to provide time for detailed 
discussion of these newer studies and to evaluate their potential use in 
clarifying the residual radiation exposures to the atomic-bomb survivors at 
Hiroshima and Nagasaki. Suggestions for possible future studies are also 
included in this workshop report.

DOI: 10.1097/HP.0b013e31828ca73a
PMID: 23799498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. J Prim Care Community Health. 2013 Oct;4(4):281-5. doi: 
10.1177/2150131913489885. Epub 2013 May 24.

Assessing long-term health and cost outcomes of patient-centered medical homes 
serving adults with poor diabetes control.

Pagán JA(1), Carlson EK.

Author information:
(1)University of North Texas Health Science Center, Fort Worth, TX, USA.

The patient-centered medical home (PCMH) is an integrated primary care delivery 
model particularly suited for patients with poor diabetes control. Although PCMH 
models targeting adults with diabetes have shown some early success, little is 
known about the long-term benefits of medical homes in terms of health and cost 
outcomes. The performance of a PCMH model in adults with poor diabetes control 
was assessed using simulated controlled trial data obtained from the Archimedes 
model of disease progression and health care utilization. Using the 
Cardio-Metabolic Risk data set, we compared health and cost outcomes over a 
20-year period between adults with poor diabetes control (HbA1c >9%) receiving 
standard care and these same adults receiving care under a PCMH model with a 49% 
HbA1c intervention improvement rate at a per-beneficiary per-month care 
management cost of $20 per month. The results suggest that the PCMH model has 
the potential to not only reduce the proportion of the population with bilateral 
blindness, foot amputations, and myocardial infarctions-and the mortality 
rate-but it can also do so in a cost-effective manner ($7898 per 
quality-adjusted life year). The PCMH model is cost saving for the population 50 
to 64 years old and it is particularly cost-effective for men ($883 per 
quality-adjusted life year). Moreover, these effects are relatively large for 
adults 30 to 49 years old (lower bilateral blindness and death rates), women 
(lower foot amputation and death rates), and men (lower bilateral blindness and 
myocardial infarction rates). The PCMH model has potential long-term benefits to 
both patients with poor diabetes control as well as health care systems and 
providers willing to invest in this health care delivery approach.

DOI: 10.1177/2150131913489885
PMID: 23799676 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Pediatr Allergy Immunol. 2013 Aug;24(5):427-33. doi: 10.1111/pai.12098. Epub
 2013 Jun 25.

Transient impact of omalizumab in pollen allergic patients undergoing specific 
immunotherapy.

Kopp MV(1), Hamelmann E, Bendiks M, Zielen S, Kamin W, Bergmann KC, Klein C, 
Wahn U; DUAL study group.

Collaborators: Kopp MV, Volksbeck U, Grychtol R, Lange J, Hamelmann E, Wahn U, 
Stock P, Parasher K, Bergmann K-, Worm M, Hae- Hyuk L, Zielen S, Schulze J, 
Schauer U, Rothoeft T, Kamin W, Sahin G, Klaer-Hlawatsch B, Brehler R, Hemfort 
P, Beeh K-, Beier J, Kunkel G, Herold D, Kleine-Tebbe J, Virchow JC, Bier A, 
Stoll P, Steinmetz K-, Lessing U, Kornmann O, Eich A, Deckelmann R, Eckardt G, 
Klimek L, Pfaar O, Lindemann L, Wild S, Ern G, Feussner W, Debertin A, Peslis N, 
Balzer R, Zingler W, Wehrmann D, Volgmann L, Petry G, Di Silvestro S, Felgner J, 
Frahm C, Grefer J, Jaeger P, Jahr J, Bissert A, Kampmann H, Kotzor N, 
Magdaleno-Maiza L, Zacharias U.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Kinder- und Jugendmedizin, Schwerpunkt Kinderpneumologie & 
Allergologie, University of Luebeck, Luebeck, Germany. matthias.kopp@uksh.de

BACKGROUND: Recently, we showed that combination of omalizumab with specific 
immunotherapy (SIT) for treatment of patients with seasonal allergic rhinitis 
(SAR) and comorbid seasonal allergic asthma (SAA) is safe and reduced the 
symptom load in a statistically significant and clinically meaningful manner 
during the first pollen season.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate long-lasting effects of an 
initial combination treatment with SIT+omalizumab, a monoclonal anti-IgE 
antibody, in a follow-up period with SIT treatment only in patients with SAR and 
comorbid SAA incompletely controlled by conventional pharmacotherapy.
METHODS: A randomized, double-blind, placebo-controlled, multicenter trial was 
performed to assess the efficacy and safety of omalizumab (Xolair(®)) vs. 
placebo in combination with SIT (depigmented allergoid vaccine, Depigoid(®)) 
during the first grass pollen season. Omalizumab or placebo therapy was started 
2 wk before SIT; the whole treatment lasted 18 wk. After the first pollen 
season, SIT was given for two subsequent years without omalizumab. Primary 
end-point was daily 'symptom load', the sum of daily scores for symptom severity 
and rescue medication use in the second and third year.
RESULTS: A total of 140 patients (age 11-46 yr) were randomized; 130, 128, and 
114 patients finished the study after 1, 2, and 3 yr, respectively. The main 
efficacy variable was the mean daily symptom load as assessed in the patients' 
diary. No systematic differences between both analysis groups were detected in 
the findings from symptom load, symptom severity score, or rescue medication 
score. Further subjective data did not show differences between both groups in 
the quality-of-life data as assessed with the ACQ, AQLQ, and the RQLQ. 
Investigators' assessment of treatment effectiveness in the first and second 
year of study extension showed more patients with favorable long-term treatment 
outcome ('excellent' and 'good') in the SIT plus omalizumab group than in the 
SIT plus placebo group. In line with these findings, FEV1 improved at the end of 
both years in the group which was treated with the combination therapy in the 
double-blind study compared with the Depigoid plus placebo group.
CONCLUSION: Eighteen weeks' treatment of omalizumab in combination with SIT in 
patients with SAR and comorbid SAA reduced the symptom load during the treatment 
period but showed no prolonged effect during treatment with SIT only. A slight 
increase in lung function (FEV1) in patients formerly treated with the 
omalizumab/SIT combination therapy should encourage further evaluation of 
long-term effects of omalizumab.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/pai.12098
PMID: 23799935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. BMC Neurol. 2013 Jun 24;13:66. doi: 10.1186/1471-2377-13-66.

Gothenburg very early supported discharge study (GOTVED) NCT01622205: a block 
randomized trial with superiority design of very early supported discharge for 
patients with stroke.

Sunnerhagen KS(1), Danielsson A, Rafsten L, Björkdahl A, Axelsson ÅB, Nordin Å, 
Petersson CA, Lundgren-Nilsson Å, Fröjd K.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, Rehabilitation Medicine, University 
of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden. ks.sunnerhagen@neuro.gu.se

BACKGROUND: Stroke is the disease with the highest costs for hospital care and 
also after discharge. Early supported discharge (ESD) has shown to be efficient 
and safe and the best results with well-organised discharge teams and patients 
with less severe strokes. The aim is to investigate if very early supported 
discharge (VESD) for stroke patients in need for on-going individualised 
rehabilitation at home is useful for the patient and cost effective.
METHODS/DESIGN: A randomized controlled trial comparing VESD with ordinary 
discharge.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: confirmed stroke, >18 years of age, living within 30 min 
from the stroke unit, on day 2 0-16 points on the National institute of health 
stroke scale (NIHSS) and 50-100 points on the Barthel Index (BI), with BI 100 
then the patient can be included if the Montreal Cognitive Assessment is < 26. 
Exclusion criteria are: NIHSS >16, BI < 50, life expectancy < 1 year, inability 
to speak or to communicate in Swedish. The inclusion occurs on day 4 and in 
block randomization of 20 and with blinded assessor.
PRIMARY OUTCOME: levels of anxiety and depression.
SECONDARY OUTCOMES: independence, security, level of function, quality of 
health, needs of support in activities of daily living and caregiver burden. 
Power calculation is based on the level of anxiety and with a power of 80%, 
p-value 0.05 (2 sided test) 44 persons per group are needed. Data is gathered on 
co-morbidity, re-entry to hospital, mortality and a health economic analysis. 
Interviews will be accomplished with a strategic sample of 15 patients in the 
intervention group before discharge, within two weeks after homecoming and 3 
months later. Interviews are also planned with 15 relatives in the intervention 
group 3 months after discharge.
DISCUSSION: The ESD studies in the Cochrane review present hospital stays of a 
length that no longer exist in Sweden. There is not yet, to our knowledge, any 
study of early supported discharge with present length of hospital stay. Thus it 
is not clear if home rehabilitation nowadays without risks, is cost effective, 
or with the same patient usefulness as earlier studies.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01622205.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2377-13-66
PMCID: PMC3694454
PMID: 23800106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Skin Res Technol. 2014 Feb;20(1):58-61. doi: 10.1111/srt.12083. Epub 2013
Jun  25.

Influence of skin extension upon the epidermal morphometry, an in vivo study.

Lévêque JL(1), Fanian F, Humbert P.

Author information:
(1)Consultant, l'Oréal Recherche, Chevilly-Larue, France.

BACKGROUND: The Dermal-Epidermal Junction (DEJ) is characterized by undulations 
whose apices are called papillae. With aging, epidermis becomes thinner, 
together with a flattening of the DEJ, leading to a decreased density of 
papillae. The causes of these modifications are likely as multiple as uncertain. 
The present paper deals with in vivo morphometric characterization of the DEJ 
and its changes following a skin surface deformation.
METHODS: Living epidermis of human adults was examined by means of in vivo 
Reflectance Confocal Microscopy. Distances between skin surface and papillae 
apex and pegs of the DEJ were, respectively, recorded in both relaxed and 
stretched skin situation. The number of papillae present within a single image 
(field of view, 500 × 500 μm) was also measured.
RESULTS: Skin extension has no effect upon the distance between skin surface and 
the apex of papillae. In contrast, the distance between skin surface and the 
pegs of papillae decreases. On the other hand, skin extension leads to a 
significant decrease in the number of papillae within a single image.
CONCLUSION: Epidermal atrophy and structural changes observed in the DEJ with 
aging may be, by some extent, related to daily and repetitive skin deformations 
all along the life span.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/srt.12083
PMID: 23800127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Int J Equity Health. 2013 Jun 22;12:44. doi: 10.1186/1475-9276-12-44.

Recruiting equal numbers of indigenous and non-indigenous participants to a 
'polypill' randomized trial.

Selak V(1), Crengle S, Elley CR, Wadham A, Harwood M, Rafter N, Bullen C, Pillai 
A, Arroll B, Rodgers A.

Author information:
(1)National Institute of Health Innovation, University of Auckland, Private Bag 
92019, Auckland Mail Centre, Auckland 1142, New Zealand. 
v.selak@nihi.auckland.ac.nz

INTRODUCTION: Māori are disproportionately affected by cardiovascular disease 
(CVD), which is the main reason for the eight year difference in life expectancy 
between Māori and non-Māori. The primary care-based IMPACT (IMProving Adherence 
using Combination Therapy) trial evaluates whether fixed dose combination 
therapy (a "polypill") improves adherence to guideline-based therapy compared 
with current care among people at high risk of CVD. Interventions shown in 
trials to be effective do not necessarily reduce ethnic disparities, and may in 
fact widen them. Indigenous populations with poorer health outcomes are often 
under-represented in trials so the effect of interventions cannot be assessed 
for them, specifically. Therefore, the IMPACT trial aimed to recruit as many 
Māori as non-Māori to assess the consistency of the effect of the polypill. This 
paper describes the methods and results of the recruitment strategy used to 
achieve this.
METHODS: Experienced Māori researchers were involved in trial governance 
throughout trial development and conduct. The trial Steering Committee included 
leading Māori researchers and was committed to equal recruitment of Māori and 
non-Māori. Additional funding and Māori research nurses were sought to allow 
home-based assessment, establishment of the relationship between research nurse 
and participant, more family involvement prior to enrollment, continuity of the 
research nurse-participant relationship, and acknowledgement of other Māori 
culturally important procedures, interactions, language and manners. Primary 
care practices with high enrollment of Māori were targeted, with over-sampling 
of potentially eligible Māori patients, lower thresholds for screening of Māori 
and 6 months continued Māori recruitment after non-Māori recruitment had 
finished.
RESULTS: A total of 257 Māori and 256 non-Māori participants were randomized. 
Four Māori and eight non-Māori participants were randomized per research nurse 
per month. Potentially eligible Māori were more likely than non-Māori to proceed 
to subsequent stages of recruitment. Differences between randomized Māori and 
non-Māori were evident (e.g. Maori were less likely to have established coronary 
artery disease).
CONCLUSIONS: Recruitment of equal numbers of indigenous and non-indigenous 
participants is possible if it is prioritised, adequately resourced and 
self-determination is supported.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The trial is registered with the Australian New Zealand 
Clinical Trial Registry ACTRN12606000067572.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-9276-12-44
PMCID: PMC3694525
PMID: 23800177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. J Pediatr. 2013 Oct;163(4):1179-85.e5. doi: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.04.066.
Epub  2013 Jun 22.

Quality of life of young adults and adolescents with chronic kidney disease.

Tong A(1), Wong G, McTaggart S, Henning P, Mackie F, Carroll RP, Howard K, Craig 
JC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Kidney Research, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, Westmead, 
New South Wales, Australia; Sydney School of Public Health, University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia. Electronic address: 
allison.tong@sydney.edu.au.

OBJECTIVE: To elicit utility-based quality of life (QOL) in adolescents and 
young adults with chronic kidney disease (CKD).
STUDY DESIGN: A cross-sectional study was conducted among patients aged 12-25 
years with CKD stage 3-5 and 5D from 6 centers in Australia. QOL was measured 
using a visual analogue scale, and 3 utility-based QOL measures: Health 
Utilities Index Mark 2 and 3 (HUI2/3), Kidney Disease Quality of Life, 
incorporating the short form (SF)-12 transformed to SF-6D, and time trade-off 
(TTO). Multiple linear regression was used to define predictors for TTO QOL 
weights, SF-6D, and visual analogue scale scores.
RESULTS: On a utility scale, with extremes of 0 (death) to 1 (full health), the 
27 participants had a mean TTO QOL weight of 0.59 (SD = 0.40), HUI2 of 0.73 (SD 
= 0.28), HUI3 of 0.74 (SD = 0.26), and SF-6D of 0.70 (SD = 0.14). QOL weights 
were consistently low across the 4 utility-based instruments with widest 
variability in TTO responses. Mean QOL weights were higher among predialysis 
participants. The HUI2 indicated variability in the domain of emotion. From the 
Kidney Disease Quality of Life measures, decrements were observed in all QOL 
domains though dialysis patients reported a significantly higher burden 
attributed to kidney disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Adolescent and young adults with CKD report low QOL values. Their 
utility-based QOL scores imply they are willing to trade considerable life 
expectancy for perfect health. Holistic care to improve QOL and minimize disease 
burden are imperative for optimizing health outcomes in young people with CKD, 
particularly those on dialysis.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.04.066
PMID: 23800404 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Gynecol Oncol. 2013 Oct;131(1):140-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2013.06.025. Epub
 2013 Jun 22.

How much is another randomized trial of lymph node dissection in endometrial 
cancer worth? A value of information analysis.

Havrilesky LJ(1), Chino JP, Myers ER.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Gynecologic Oncology, 
Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA; Duke Cancer Institute, Durham, 
NC, 27710, USA. Electronic address: havri001@mc.duke.edu.

OBJECTIVE: This study aimed to assess the value of a randomized controlled trial 
(RCT) of lymph node dissection (LND) at the time of hysterectomy for high-risk 
subsets of women with endometrial cancer.
METHODS: A modified Markov decision model compared routine LND to no LND for 
women with grade 3 or grades 2-3 endometrial cancer. Inputs were modeled as 
distributions for Monte Carlo probabilistic sensitivity and value of information 
(VOI) analyses. Survival without LND was modeled from Surveillance, Epidemiology 
and End Results program data. A hazard ratio (HR) describing survival in the 
high-risk group undergoing LND (estimate 0.9, 95% CI 0.6-1.1), adverse event 
rates, probability and type of adjuvant therapy were modeled from published 
RCTs. Costs were obtained from national reimbursement data. VOI estimated the 
value of reducing uncertainty regarding the survival benefit of LND.
RESULTS: For grade 3, LND had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$40,183/quality-adjusted life year (QALY) compared to no LND. Acceptability 
curves revealed considerable uncertainty, with an expected value of perfect 
information of $4,195 per patient at societal willingness to pay of 
$50,000/QALY. The estimated value of partial perfect information regarding the 
HR was $3,702 per patient. Assuming 8,000 individuals annually with grade 3 
endometrial cancer in the US, the upper limit of VOI for the HR was $29.6 
million annually. For grades 2 and 3 combined, analysis revealed a much lower 
likelihood of finding LND cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: A clinical trial defining the survival effect of LND in women with 
grade 3 endometrial cancer is a worthwhile use of resources.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2013.06.025
PMID: 23800699 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Obes Surg. 2013 Dec;23(12):2018-9. doi: 10.1007/s11695-013-1000-5.

Hypogonadism as a new comorbidity in male patient's selection for bariatric 
surgery: towards an extended concept of metabolic surgery?

Lucchese M(1), Maggi M.

Author information:
(1)Bariatric and Metabolic Surgery Unit, Careggi University Hospital in 
Florence, Largo Brambilla, 3-50134, Florence, Italy, mlucch@iol.it.

Hypogonadism and subfertility can be frequently associated to obesity. These 
endocrine alterations may have consequences in the health and quality of life of 
obese men since they may result in impaired fertility and poor sexual life. As 
many clinical reports suggest, weight loss can ameliorate hypogonadism and, more 
generally, alterations in sex hormones. This effect is evident even when weight 
loss is induced by bariatric surgery. The evidence that hypogonadism in morbidly 
obese patients can regress after bariatric surgery should lead us to consider it 
as a modifiable comorbidity associated to obesity. This would have as a 
consequence that obese male patients with symptomatic hypogonadism could be 
candidates for bariatric surgery even with a BMI < 40 kg/m(2). Controlled 
clinical trials, involving obese hypogonadal males, should be encouraged.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-013-1000-5
PMID: 23800831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. JAMA. 2013 Jun 26;309(24):2587-95. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.6882.

Use of advanced treatment technologies among men at low risk of dying from 
prostate cancer.

Jacobs BL(1), Zhang Y, Schroeck FR, Skolarus TA, Wei JT, Montie JE, Gilbert SM, 
Strope SA, Dunn RL, Miller DC, Hollenbeck BK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-2800, USA.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2013 Nov;190(5):1766-7.
    BJU Int. 2014 Aug;114(2):166-7.
    Eur Urol. 2014 Jan;65(1):250.

IMPORTANCE: The use of advanced treatment technologies (ie, intensity-modulated 
radiotherapy [IMRT] and robotic prostatectomy) for prostate cancer is 
increasing. The extent to which these advanced treatment technologies have 
disseminated among patients at low risk of dying from prostate cancer is 
uncertain.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the use of advanced treatment technologies, compared with 
prior standards (ie, traditional external beam radiation treatment [EBRT] and 
open radical prostatectomy) and observation, among men with a low risk of dying 
from prostate cancer.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PATIENTS: Using Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results 
(SEER)-Medicare data, we identified a retrospective cohort of men diagnosed with 
prostate cancer between 2004 and 2009 who underwent IMRT (n = 23,633), EBRT (n = 
3926), robotic prostatectomy (n = 5881), open radical prostatectomy (n = 6123), 
or observation (n = 16,384). Follow-up data were available through December 31, 
2010.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: The use of advanced treatment technologies among men 
unlikely to die from prostate cancer, as assessed by low-risk disease (clinical 
stage ≤T2a, biopsy Gleason score ≤6, and prostate-specific antigen level ≤10 
ng/mL), high risk of noncancer mortality (based on the predicted probability of 
death within 10 years in the absence of a cancer diagnosis), or both.
RESULTS: In our cohort, the use of advanced treatment technologies increased 
from 32% (95% CI, 30%-33%) to 44% (95% CI, 43%-46%) among men with low-risk 
disease (P < .001) and from 36% (95% CI, 35%-38%) to 57% (95% CI, 55%-59%) among 
men with high risk of noncancer mortality (P < .001). The use of these advanced 
treatment technologies among men with both low-risk disease and high risk of 
noncancer mortality increased from 25% (95% CI, 23%-28%) to 34% (95% CI, 
31%-37%) (P < .001). Among all patients diagnosed in SEER, the use of advanced 
treatment technologies for men unlikely to die from prostate cancer increased 
from 13% (95% CI, 12%-14%), or 129.2 per 1000 patients diagnosed with prostate 
cancer, to 24% (95% CI, 24%-25%), or 244.2 per 1000 patients diagnosed with 
prostate cancer (P < .001).
CONCLUSION AND RELEVANCE: Among men diagnosed with prostate cancer between 2004 
and 2009 who had low-risk disease, high risk of noncancer mortality, or both, 
the use of advanced treatment technologies has increased.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.6882
PMCID: PMC3857348
PMID: 23800935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: All authors 
have completed and submitted the ICMJE Form for Disclosure of Potential 
Conflicts of Interest. Dr Schroeck reported having received an honorarium for 
writing a CME review article from the American Urological Association. Dr 
Skolarus reported being a consultant for ArborMetrix. Dr Montie reported having 
owned stock or stock options in HistoSonics. Dr Miller reported being a 
consultant for United Healthcare. Dr Hollenbeck is an Associate Editor of 
Urology. No other disclosures were reported.


362. Exp Appl Acarol. 2013 Dec;61(4):403-13. doi: 10.1007/s10493-013-9716-4. Epub
 2013 Jun 26.

Temperature-dependent life history of Oligonychus mangiferus (Acari: 
Tetranychidae) on Mangifera indica.

Lin MY(1).

Author information:
(1)Tainan District Agricultural Research and Extension Station, Council of 
Agriculture, Executive Yuan, 70 Muchang, Hsinhua, Tainan, 71246, Taiwan, ROC, 
mylin@mail.tndais.gov.tw.

The mango red spider mite, Oligonychus mangiferus (Rhaman and Sapra), is a major 
mango pest in Taiwan. This mite damages the leaves of the mango tree and affects 
the quality of the fruit. This study investigates the life history of the mango 
red spider mite on Mangifera indica L. cv. Irwin at five constant temperatures 
(17, 21, 25, 29, and 33 °C), under 80 ± 5 % RH and L12:D12 photoperiod 
conditions. An increase in temperature significantly decreased the developmental 
times for each stage and the overall immature period in females and males. The 
lower developmental thresholds of the immature stage were 12.5 and 12.4 °C for 
females and males, respectively. The thermal summations for the development of 
the immature stage were 185.9 and 175.7 degree-days for females and males, 
respectively. Based on the annual field temperature, an estimated 26 generations 
can reproduce in a mango orchard annually. The longevity of adults of both sexes 
decreased as temperature increased, and adult males lived longer than females. 
The preoviposition periods were shorter than 1 day when the temperature exceeded 
25 °C. The development period and the oviposition period were shortest at 29 °C. 
At this point, daily fecundity was highest, and fecundity was second highest, 
resulting in the highest intrinsic rate of increase (r m ), 0.182 day(-1). These 
life history traits are applied to improve the management of O. mangiferus.

DOI: 10.1007/s10493-013-9716-4
PMID: 23801038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Zoo Biol. 2013 Sep-Oct;32(5):484-9. doi: 10.1002/zoo.21080. Epub 2013 Jun
25.

Short-term digestible energy intake in captive moose (Alces alces) on different 
diets.

Clauss M(1), Kohlschein GM, Peemöller A, Hummel J, Hatt JM.

Author information:
(1)Vetsuisse Faculty, Clinic for Zoo Animals, Exotic Pets and Wildlife, 
University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland. mclauss@vetclinics.uzh.ch.

Moose (Alces alces) are regularly described as problematic animals in captivity, 
mainly because of their particular digestive physiology and resulting feeding 
demands. According to the literature, moose regularly reject non-browse forages 
offered in captivity, which may indirectly lead to an overproportional ingestion 
of easily digestible feeds and thus chronic acidosis, which may in turn be the 
cause of their low life expectancy in captivity. By feeding experiments in four 
animals, this study aimed at testing whether maintaining moose on roughage-only 
diets appears feasible. The diets used consisted of the typical zoo ration with 
mixed feeds (including alfalfa hay), and exclusive diets of alfalfa hay, 
combinations of alfalfa hay and grass hay, alfalfa hay and grass hay and dried 
browse leaves, and dried browse leaves only. Whereas results confirmed that 
moose do not ingest grass hay in relevant amounts, digestible energy (DE) intake 
on alfalfa hay was, at 0.67 ± 0.15 DE MJ kg(-0.75) day(-1), above the estimated 
maintenance requirement of 0.6, and higher on the browse diets. At least for 
short-time periods, results contradict previous reports in the literature that 
alfalfa hay only is not a suitable maintenance diet for moose. At the same time 
the results promote feeding moose in captivity forage-based diets.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/zoo.21080
PMID: 23801273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Intellect Disabil. 2013 Sep;17(3):223-35. doi: 10.1177/1744629513495261.
Epub  2013 Jun 25.

Monitoring metabolic side effects of atypical antipsychotics in people with an 
intellectual disability.

Teeluckdharry S(1), Sharma S, O'Rourke E, Tharian P, Gondalekar A, Nainar F, Roy 
M.

Author information:
(1)Birmingham and Solihull Mental Health NHS Foundation Trust, UK.

This audit was undertaken prospectively to examine the compliance of a group of 
psychiatrists against guidelines they developed for monitoring the onset of 
metabolic syndrome, a potential side effect of antipsychotic medication, 
especially second generation or atypical ones. Phase 1 of the audit was to set 
standards by a questionnaire survey of participating psychiatrists against 
Consensus Guidelines on monitoring (American Diabetic Association, 2004), which 
they favoured. The results led to modifying these guidelines to develop minimum 
acceptable standards against which their practice was audited in Phase 2. 
Although in Phase 1, 77% of the psychiatrists felt that they did some baseline 
recording, Phase 2 finding did not corroborate this--only 53.8% of the notes 
recorded the assessment of risk factors in personal history; 37.5% risk factors 
in family history; 31.7% baseline weight and 26.4% baseline blood sugar/lipid 
levels. In Phase 1, 85% of the psychiatrists thought that they carried out some 
of the recommended monitoring; our audit found the records of weight monitoring 
in 69.7% of the notes and blood sugar and lipids monitoring in 44.2%. People 
with intellectual disability have a shorter life expectancy and increased risk 
of early death when compared with the general population. Obesity is already a 
health issue for people with intellectual disability. We discuss the challenges 
faced by psychiatrists in implementing their own minimum acceptable standards 
and suggest measures to reduce the metabolic risk associated with antipsychotic 
medication through increasing awareness--use of information leaflets in 
accessible format, health promotion and use of side effect checklists and 
improving access--by working collaboratively with general practitioners 
utilising the forum of annual health checks.

DOI: 10.1177/1744629513495261
PMID: 23801356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Psychooncology. 2013 Dec;22(12):2720-8. doi: 10.1002/pon.3337. Epub 2013 Jun
26.

Do we get it right? Radiation oncology outpatients' perceptions of the patient 
centredness of life expectancy disclosure.

Mackenzie LJ(1), Carey ML, Paul CL, Sanson-Fisher RW, D'Este CA.

Author information:
(1)Priority Research Centre for Health Behaviour, School of Medicine and Public 
Health, Faculty of Health, The University of Newcastle, Callaghan, New South 
Wales, Australia; Hunter Medical Research Institute, Newcastle, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: A patient-centred approach to discussing life expectancy with cancer 
patients is recommended in Western countries. However, this approach to 
eliciting and meeting patient preferences can be challenging for clinicians. The 
aims of this study were the following: (i) to examine cancer patients' 
preferences for life expectancy disclosure; and (ii) to explore agreement 
between cancer patients' preferences for, and perceived experiences of, life 
expectancy disclosure.
METHODS: Cancer patients undergoing radiotherapy treatment in metropolitan 
Australia completed a cross-sectional touchscreen computer survey including 
optional questions about their life expectancy disclosure preferences and 
experiences.
RESULTS: Of the 208 respondents, 178 (86%) indicated that they would prefer 
their clinician to ask them before discussing life expectancy, and 30 (14%) 
indicated that they would prefer others (i.e. clinicians, family) to decide 
whether they were given life expectancy information. Of the 175 respondents who 
were classified as having a self- determined or other-determined disclosure 
experience, 105 (60%) reported an experience of life expectancy disclosure that 
was in accordance with their preferences. Cohen's κ was -0.04 (95% CI, -0.17, 
0.08), indicating very poor agreement between patients' preferences for and 
perceived experiences of life expectancy disclosure (p = 0.74).
CONCLUSIONS: In light of patient-centred prognosis disclosure guidelines, our 
findings of a majority preference for, and experience of, a self-determined 
approach to life expectancy disclosure amongst radiation oncology patients are 
encouraging. However, poor agreement between preferences and experiences 
highlights that additional effort from clinicians is required in order to 
achieve a truly patient-centred approach to life expectancy disclosure.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.3337
PMID: 23801643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Diabetes Care. 2013 Sep;36(9):2646-54. doi: 10.2337/dc12-2032. Epub 2013 Jun
25.

Total mortality by elevated transferrin saturation in patients with diabetes.

Ellervik C(1), Andersen HU, Tybjærg-Hansen A, Frandsen M, Birgens H, 
Nordestgaard BG, Mandrup-Poulsen T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Biochemistry, Herlev Hospital, Copenhagen University 
Hospital, Herlev, Denmark. christina@ellervik.dk

Comment in
    Diabetes Care. 2014 Jun;37(6):e137-8.

OBJECTIVE: It is not known to what extent iron overload predicts prognosis in 
patients with diabetes after diagnosis or whether iron overload is a risk factor 
independent of the HFE genotype. We investigated total and cause-specific 
mortality according to increased transferrin saturation (≥ 50 vs. <50%), whether 
mortality is driven by the HFE genotype, and whether early measurement of 
transferrin saturation helps to predict mortality outcome.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Cohort 1 included patients with late-onset type 1 
diabetes (n = 716) with a cross-sectional measurement of transferrin saturation 
and HFE genotype. Cohort 2 included consecutively recruited patients with any 
diabetes (n = 6,120), transferrin saturation measurement at referral, and HFE 
genotype if transferrin saturation was above 50%.
RESULTS: In cohort 1, the hazard ratio for total mortality was 2.3 (95% CI 
1.3-3.9; P = 0.002) and for cause-specific mortality by neoplasms was 5.8 
(2.4-14; P = 0.00007) in patients with transferrin saturation ≥ 50 vs. <50%. 
Excluding genotypes C282Y/C282Y and C282Y/H63D gave similar results. The hazard 
ratio for total mortality was 4.0 (1.2-13; P = 0.01) and for cause-specific 
mortality by neoplasms was 13 (3.6-49; P = 0.0001) in patients with C282Y/C282Y 
versus wild type. In cohort 2, total mortality was not different in patients 
with transferrin saturation ≥ 50 vs. <50%. In patients with late-onset type 1 
diabetes and transferrin saturation ≥ 50%, the hazard ratio for total mortality 
was 0.4 (0.2-0.9; P = 0.03) in cohort 2 versus cohort 1.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased transferrin saturation and HFE genotype C282Y/C282Y 
predict total mortality in patients with late-onset type 1 diabetes, and 
increased transferrin saturation after diagnosis is an independent risk factor. 
Early measurement of transferrin saturation in these patients leading to early 
intervention improves life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2337/dc12-2032
PMCID: PMC3747880
PMID: 23801727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Radiol Oncol. 2013 May 21;47(2):161-5. doi: 10.2478/raon-2013-0019. Print
2013  Jun.

Long term follow-up report of cardiac toxicity in patients with multiple myeloma 
treated with tandem autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation.

Kozelj M(1), Zver S, Zadnik V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Medical Centre Ljubljana, Ljubljana, 
Slovenia.

BACKGROUND: Tandem autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (ta-HSCT) 
is a standard treatment for multiple myeloma (MM). Patients receive a high-dose 
cyclophosphamide (CY), followed by two myeloablative cycles of melphalan (MEL). 
There are scarce data about long term cardiotoxicity.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We studied 12 patients (62.25 ± 8.55 years) six years 
after the completion of MM treatment with ta-HCST. Late cardiotoxic effects were 
evaluated clinically and echocardiographically.
RESULTS: None of the patients developed clinical signs of heart failure, all 
were in sinus rhythm and NT-pro BNP concentration was elevated (778 ± 902.76 
pg/mL). The left ventricular (LV) size remained normal. The LV ejection fraction 
did not decrease (73.75 ± 5.67%, 69.27 ± 6.13%, p = NS). The LV diastolic 
function parameters (E, A, ratio E/A and A/a) did not change significantly. In 
tissue Doppler parameters we observed a nonsignificant decrease in Em (10.26 ± 
2.63 cm/s, 7.57 ± 1.43 cm/s) and Sm velocities (8.7 ± 0.87 cm/s, 7.14 ± 1.17 
cm/s, p = NS). The E/Em values were in an abnormal range (8.66 ± 1.05, 10.55 ± 
2.03).
CONCLUSIONS: The treatment of MM with ta-HSCT, during which patients receive a 
high dose CY followed by two myeloablative cycles of MEL, causes mild, chronic, 
partially reversible and clinically silent cardiotoxic side-effects. However, 
ta-HSCT in patients with MM is a safe regarding cardiotoxic side effects, but, 
because of increasing life expectancy needs long term attention.

DOI: 10.2478/raon-2013-0019
PMCID: PMC3691086
PMID: 23801913


368. Int J Stroke. 2014 Jun;9(4):503-13. doi: 10.1111/ijs.12070. Epub 2013 Jun
