have longer life expectancies but more EYLL than men with such tumors (P < .05). 
The estimated years of life saved if gastric adenocarcinoma is diagnosed at an 
early stage and cured are 22,827 years (2.62 years/case) for women and 33,700 
years (1.97 years/case) for men.
CONCLUSION: Among patients with gastric cancer, men and patients with 
adenocarcinomas of the cardia have shorter life expectancies and more EYLL. 
Early detection of gastric adenocarcinoma can increase life expectancy.

Copyright © 2013 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2013.05.036
PMID: 23811250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Osteoarthritis Cartilage. 2013 Oct;21(10):1504-13. doi: 
10.1016/j.joca.2013.06.014. Epub 2013 Jun 27.

Manual therapy, exercise therapy, or both, in addition to usual care, for 
osteoarthritis of the hip or knee. 2: economic evaluation alongside a randomized 
controlled trial.

Pinto D(1), Robertson MC, Abbott JH, Hansen P, Campbell AJ; MOA Trial Team.

Collaborators: Abbott JH, Baxter GD, Campbell A, Robertson MC, Theis JC, 
Herbison P, de la Barra SL, McKenzie J, Basford J, Fitzgerald GK, Flynn T, Fritz 
J, Hansen P, Hurley-Osing D, Whitman J, McNamara D, Chapple C, Pinto D, Wright 
A, Kidd M, Higgs C, Smith J, Tumilty S, Kennedy E, Braund R, Cleland J, Cook C, 
Dockerty J, Nicholson H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy and Human Movement Sciences, Institute for 
Public Health and Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA; Center for Healthcare Studies, Institute for 
Public Health and Medicine, Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost effectiveness of manual physiotherapy, exercise 
physiotherapy, and a combination of these therapies for patients with 
osteoarthritis of the hip or knee.
METHODS: 206 Adults who met the American College of Rheumatology criteria for 
hip or knee osteoarthritis were included in an economic evaluation from the 
perspectives of the New Zealand health system and society alongside a randomized 
controlled trial. Resource use was collected using the Osteoarthritis Costs and 
Consequences Questionnaire. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated 
using the Short Form 6D. Willingness-to-pay threshold values were based on one 
to three times New Zealand's gross domestic product (GDP) per capita of NZ$ 
29,149 (in 2009).
RESULTS: All three treatment programmes resulted in incremental QALY gains 
relative to usual care. From the perspective of the New Zealand health system, 
exercise therapy was the only treatment to result in an incremental cost utility 
ratio under one time GDP per capita at NZ$ 26,400 (-$34,081 to $103,899). From 
the societal perspective manual therapy was cost saving relative to usual care 
for most scenarios studied. Exercise therapy resulted in incremental cost 
utility ratios regarded as cost effective but was not cost saving. For most 
scenarios combined therapy was not as cost effective as the two therapies alone.
CONCLUSIONS: In this study, exercise therapy and manual therapy were more cost 
effective than usual care at policy relevant values of willingness-to-pay from 
both the perspective of the health system and society. Trial registration number 
Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry ACTRN12608000130369.

Copyright © 2013 Osteoarthritis Research Society International. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.joca.2013.06.014
PMID: 23811491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Optom Vis Sci. 2013 Aug;90(8):855-60. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3182962318.

Patient and public preferences for health states associated with AMD.

Butt T(1), Dunbar HM, Morris S, Orr S, Rubin GS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom. thomas.butt.10@ucl.ac.uk

PURPOSE: Health utility values suitable for calculating quality-adjusted 
life-years are increasingly used to assess the cost-effectiveness of treatments 
for age-related macular degeneration (AMD). In the United States, health 
utilities are usually derived from the patients' own valuation or modeled using 
visual acuity as a surrogate outcome. In the United Kingdom and throughout 
Europe, health utilities are derived from public valuations. Our aim was to test 
if utility values for health states associated with AMD elicited directly from 
patients were different from those calculated from public tariffs for 
health-related quality of life (HRQoL) questionnaires.
METHODS: Generic preference-based HRQoL questionnaires (EQ-5D and SF-6D) and the 
time trade-off (TTO) and visual analog scale (VAS) valuation techniques were 
administered to a sample of UK patients with AMD (N = 60). Health utilities were 
calculated using standard general population tariffs for the patient EQ-5D and 
SF-6D health states and directly from patient TTO and VAS scores.
RESULTS: Mean utilities derived from the public tariffs were significantly 
higher than from patients' valuation (mean [±SD], 0.613 (±0.275) for the EQ-5D 
and 0.628 (±0.114) for the SF-6D compared with 0.481 [±0.411] for the TTO and 
56.7 [±21.8] for the VAS score; p < 0.001). The EQ-5D was not significantly 
different from the SF-6D (p > 0.6). Visual acuity in the better seeing eye was 
not associated with any utility measure (all r < 0.08; p > 0.2).
CONCLUSIONS: Patient and public preferences for health states associated with 
AMD are different, with patients valuing their health state more severely than 
the public tariffs of commonly used HRQoL questionnaires. Visual acuity did not 
predict health utility using any measure, and therefore, care should be taken 
when using visual acuity as a surrogate measure for utility in health economic 
analyses.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0b013e3182962318
PMID: 23811607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. Med Decis Making. 2013 Oct;33(7):937-48. doi: 10.1177/0272989X13493971. Epub
 2013 Jun 28.

Nutritional policy changes in the supplemental nutrition assistance program: a 
microsimulation and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Basu S(1)(2)(3)(4), Seligman H(5), Bhattacharya J(2)(6).

Author information:
(1)Prevention Research Center, Department of Medicine, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA (SB).
(2)Centers for Health Policy, Primary Care and Outcomes Research, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA, USA (SB, JB)
(3)Center on Poverty and Inequality, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA (SB)
(4)Department of Public Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK (SB)
(5)Center for Vulnerable Populations, San Francisco General Hospital, University 
of California San Francisco, San Francisco, CA, USA (HS)
(6)National Bureau of Economic Research, Cambridge, MA, USA (JB)

BACKGROUND: Some experts have proposed limiting the use of Supplemental 
Nutrition Assistance Program (SNAP) benefits, for calorie-dense foods or 
subsidizing SNAP purchases of healthier foods.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate health effects and cost-effectiveness of banning or 
taxing sugar-sweetened beverages (SSBs) or subsidizing fruits and vegetables 
purchased with SNAP.
DESIGN: . Microsimulation. Data Sources. National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey, US Department of Agriculture Quarterly Food-at-Home Price 
Database, and SNAP program data.
TARGET POPULATION: US adults aged 25 to 64 y. Time Horizon. 10 y. Perspective. 
Governmental.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Incremental costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), body 
mass index, Alternative Healthy Eating Index, Food Security Score, diabetes 
person-years, and deaths from myocardial infarctions (MIs) and strokes.
RESULTS: of Base-Case Analysis. Banning SSB purchases using SNAP benefits would 
be expected to avert 510,000 diabetes person-years and 52,000 deaths from MIs 
and strokes over the next decade, with a savings of $2900 per QALY saved. A 
penny-per-ounce tax on SSBs purchased with SNAP dollars would produce higher 
cost savings due to tax revenues but avert fewer chronic disease deaths. 
However, some SNAP participants are likely to preferentially purchase SSBs 
through their disposable income, indirectly reducing their food security. A 30% 
produce subsidy would be expected to avert 39,000 diabetes person-years and 4600 
cardiovascular deaths over 10 y without effects on food security. Results of 
Sensitivity Analysis. Results are sensitive to the intake elasticities of SSBs 
and produce. Limitations. Input data did not provide information on 
heterogeneity in response to price changes within the SNAP-using
CONCLUSIONS: SNAP restrictions on SSBs could lower chronic disease mortality, 
but further testing should examine indirect effects on disposable income and 
food security. Subsidizing produce could confer fewer benefits or risks but at 
higher cost.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X13493971
PMID: 23811757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. J Pediatr Orthop. 2013 Sep;33(6):635-43. doi: 10.1097/BPO.0b013e31829abfe0.

Hip dysplasia in patients with Hurler syndrome (mucopolysaccharidosis type 1H).

Thawrani DP(1), Walker K, Polgreen LE, Tolar J, Orchard PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department Pediatric Orthopedics, Gillette Children's Specialty Healthcare, 
St Paul, MN 55101, USA. dr_dineshthawrani@yahoo.co.in

BACKGROUND: Hip dysplasia is common in patients with Hurler syndrome (HS). 
However, its prevalence and optimal management is not yet clear because of the 
rarity of the disease and the prior short life span of these patients. Recent 
advances in the management of these children using allogeneic hematopoietic cell 
transplant (HCT) has significantly increased their life expectancy, with many 
surviving into adulthood. This review was conducted to describe the experience 
of a single center with hip dysplasia in HS after HCT.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of hip dysplasia in a consecutive 
series of patients with HS treated with HCT from 1985 to 2008.
RESULTS: At 4.5 (± 2.9) years after HCT all 51 children (102 hips) with HS 
showed acetabular dysplasia and proximal femur valgus deformity. Mean age at HCT 
was 1.6 ± 0.9 years. Forty hips (39%) underwent hip reconstructive osteotomies 
at mean age of 6.8 ± 3.1 years. Significant radiographic improvement was noted 
in all radiographic parameters at 5.4 ± 3.7 years after hip surgery (P<0.001). 
Acetabular index improved from 33.3 degrees (± 7.9) preoperative to 24.7 degrees 
(± 8) after surgery, lateral center edge angle improved from -5.3 degrees (± 
10.9) to 35.2 degrees (± 17.8), migration index from 50.7% (± 15.7) to 9.6% (± 
13.6), and femoral-neck-shaft angle from 150.9 degrees (± 5.8) to 130.8 degrees 
(± 12.4). Ten of the 40 hips underwent only proximal femoral varus derotation 
osteotomy and 30 underwent combined proximal femoral varus derotation 
osteotomy+pelvic osteotomy.
CONCLUSIONS: This study reports high prevalence of hip dysplasia (100%) in 
patients with HS. As significant radiographic improvement was achieved in those 
patients treated with surgical interventions we recommend annual orthopaedic 
evaluation of hips in patients with HS after HCT and intervention with 
reconstructive femoral and pelvic osteotomies for their hip dysplasia.

DOI: 10.1097/BPO.0b013e31829abfe0
PMID: 23812141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. J Bras Nefrol. 2013 Apr-Jun;35(2):132-41. doi: 10.5935/0101-2800.20130022.

Dialysis in the elderly patient: a challenge of the XXI century--narrative 
review.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Franco MR(1), Fernandes NM.

Author information:
(1)Federal University of Juiz de Fora, MG, Brazil.

Erratum in
    J Bras Nefrol. 2013 Jul-Sep;35(3):244.

With the increase in life expectancy, the improvement of therapeutic arsenal, 
knowledge and control of chronic degenerative diseases, the world population has 
reached older age groups. As advanced age is a risk factor for chronic kidney 
disease (CKD), along with the bonus of increased survival, today we are 
experiencing the greatest burden of progressive incidence of elderly patients on 
renal replacement therapy (RRT). Dialysis in elderly patients, which for three 
decades was considered out of question, today is a routine for nephrologists, 
who face the challenge of providing care to elderly patients with CKD stage 5 
with dialysis indication. In fact, what we see nowadays are dialysis incidents 
elderly patients as the fastest growing group on RRT. Although without reaching 
a consensus, it seems indisputable that for elderly patients with CKD, the most 
important is the quality of life. In this paper we discuss the dialysis in the 
elderly patient.

DOI: 10.5935/0101-2800.20130022
PMID: 23812571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Ann Surg Oncol. 2013 Sep;20(9):2873-80. doi: 10.1245/s10434-013-2997-3. Epub
 2013 Jun 29.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of intraoperative radiation therapy for early-stage 
breast cancer.

Alvarado MD(1), Mohan AJ, Esserman LJ, Park CC, Harrison BL, Howe RJ, Thorsen C, 
Ozanne EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, UCSF Comprehensive Cancer Center, San Francisco, CA, 
USA. michael.alvarado@ucsfmedctr.org

BACKGROUND: Shortened courses of radiation therapy have been shown to be 
similarly effective to whole-breast external-beam radiation therapy (WB-EBRT) in 
terms of local control. We sought to analyze, from a societal perspective, the 
cost-effectiveness of two radiation strategies for early-stage invasive breast 
cancer: single-dose intraoperative radiation therapy (IORT) and the standard 
6-week course of WB-EBRT.
METHODS: We developed a Markov decision-analytic model to evaluate these 
treatment strategies in terms of life expectancy, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs), costs, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio over 10 years.
RESULTS: IORT single-dose intraoperative radiation therapy was the dominant, 
more cost-effective strategy, providing greater quality-adjusted life years at a 
decreased cost compared with 6-week WB-EBRT. The model was sensitive to health 
state utilities and recurrence rates, but not costs. IORT was either the 
preferred or dominant strategy across all sensitivity analyses. The two-way 
sensitivity analyses demonstrate the need to accurately determine utility values 
for the two forms of radiation treatment and to avoid indiscriminate use of 
IORT.
CONCLUSIONS: With less cost and greater QALYs than WB-EBRT, IORT is the more 
valuable strategy. IORT offers a unique example of new technology that is less 
costly than the current standard of care option but offers similar efficacy. 
Even when considering the capital investment for the equipment ($425 K, low when 
compared with the investments required for robotic surgery or high-dose-rate 
brachytherapy), which could be recouped after 3-4 years conservatively, these 
results support IORT as a change in practice for treating early-stage invasive 
breast cancer.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-013-2997-3
PMID: 23812769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. J Invasive Cardiol. 2013 Jul;25(7):361-3.

Coronary angioplasty after self-expandable transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation.

Greenberg G(1), Kornowski R.

Author information:
(1)Rabin Medical Center, Cardiology, Jabutinski Street 39, Petah-Tikva 49100, 
Israel.

Aortic stenosis and coronary artery disease share comorbidities/risk factors; 
thus, it is not surprising they occur concomitantly. With increased life 
expectancy of patients who undergo transcatheter aortic valve implantation 
(TAVI), the rate of post-TAVI percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) is 
expected to rise. In the current report, we present two cases using PCI 
following CoreValve (Medtronic) implantation. Our cases indicated that the 
procedure is feasible and safe, but requires careful planning and understanding 
of the three-dimensional geometry of the prosthetic valve and its relation to 
the coronary ostia.

PMID: 23813067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Eur J Public Health. 2014 Jun;24(3):357-63. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt084. Epub
 2013 Jun 27.

Have regional inequalities in life expectancy widened within the European Union 
between 1991 and 2008?

Richardson EA(1), Pearce J(2), Mitchell R(3), Shortt NK(2), Tunstall H(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Centre for Research on Environment, Society and Health (CRESH), Research 
Institute of Geography and the Lived Environment, School of GeoSciences, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9XP, UK e.richardson@ed.ac.uk.
(2)1 Centre for Research on Environment, Society and Health (CRESH), Research 
Institute of Geography and the Lived Environment, School of GeoSciences, 
University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH8 9XP, UK.
(3)2 Centre for Research on Environment, Society and Health (CRESH), Section of 
Public Health and Health Policy, Faculty of Medicine, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow G12 8RZ, UK.

BACKGROUND: Health inequalities have widened within and between many European 
countries over recent decades, but Europe-wide sub-national trends have been 
largely overlooked. For regions across the European Union (EU), we assess how 
geographical inequalities (i.e., between regions) and sociospatial inequalities 
(i.e., between regions grouped by an area-level measure of average household 
income) in male and female life expectancy have changed between 1991 and 2008.
METHODS: Household income, life expectancy at birth and population count data 
were obtained for 129 regions (level 2 Nomenclature of Statistical Territorial 
Units, 'NUTS') in 13 European countries with 1991-2008 data (2008 population = 
272 million). We assessed temporal changes in the range of life expectancies, 
for all regions and for Western and Eastern European regions separately.
RESULTS: Between 1991 and 2008, the geographical range of life expectancies 
found among European regions remained relatively constant, with the exception of 
life expectancy among male Eastern Europeans, for whom the range widened by 2.8 
years. Sociospatial inequalities in life expectancy (1999-2008 data only) 
remained constant for all regions combined and for Western Europe, but more than 
doubled in size for male Eastern Europeans. For female Eastern Europeans, life 
expectancy was unrelated to regional household income.
CONCLUSIONS: Regional life-expectancy inequalities in the EU have not narrowed 
over 2 decades, despite efforts to reduce them. Household income differences 
across European regions may partly explain these inequalities. As inequalities 
transcend national borders, reduction efforts may require EU-wide coordination 
in addition to national efforts.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt084
PMID: 23813717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Bone Joint J. 2013 Jul;95-B(7):942-6. doi: 10.1302/0301-620X.95B7.31197.

Improvement in quality of life after arthroscopic capsular release for 
contracture of the shoulder.

Dattani R(1), Ramasamy V, Parker R, Patel VR.

Author information:
(1)Reading Shoulder Unit, Swallows Croft, Wensley Road, Coley Park, Reading RG1 
6UZ, UK. rupendattani@hotmail.com

There is little published information on the health impact of frozen shoulder. 
The purpose of this study was to assess the functional and health-related 
quality of life outcomes following arthroscopic capsular release (ACR) for 
contracture of the shoulder. Between January 2010 and January 2012 all patients 
who had failed non-operative treatment including anti-inflammatory medication, 
physiotherapy and glenohumeral joint injections for contracture of the shoulder 
and who subsequently underwent an ACR were enrolled in the study. A total of 100 
patients were eligible; 68 underwent ACR alone and 32 had ACR with a subacromial 
decompression (ASD). ACR resulted in a highly significant improvement in the 
range of movement and functional outcome, as measured by the Oxford shoulder 
score and EuroQol EQ-5D index. The mean cost of a quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) for an ACR and ACR with an ASD was £2563 and £3189, respectively. ACR is 
thus a cost-effective procedure that can restore relatively normal function and 
health-related quality of life in most patients with a contracture of the 
shoulder within six months after surgery; and the beneficial effects are not 
related to the duration of the presenting symptoms.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.95B7.31197
PMID: 23814247 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Rev Port Cir Cardiotorac Vasc. 2012 Apr-Jun;19(2):63-7.

Surgical treatment of non-small cell lung cancer in octogenarians - safety and 
prognosis.

Neves PC(1), Guerra M, Martins D, Ponce P, Miranda J, Vouga L.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Cirurgia Cardiotorácica do Centro Hospitalar de Vila Nova de 
Gaia/Espinho - Portugal.

BACKGROUND: Reluctance to recommend surgery for the elderly is partly based on 
the expectation that the rate of complications and mortality is higher in this 
group of patients and on the impression that the life expectancy of an 
octogenarian with lung cancer is limited by death from natural causes.
METHODS: Between 2007-2011, we operated on 57 patients over 80 years who 
underwent thoracotomy with curative intent for lung cancer. Mean age was 82.2 
years, 17 were female and 40 male. The presence of preoperative comorbidities in 
this group of patients was significant: chronic lung disease - 22.8%, 
cardiovascular disease - 38.6% and a history of other malignancy - 17.5%. 
However, their respiratory function was very acceptable with an average FVC of 
93.6% and an average FEV1 of 83.2%. The predominant location of tumor (mean size 
of 3.0±1.7 cm) was upper lobes (63.2%) and cytological diagnosis was established 
preoperatively in 61.4% of cases. Preoperative staging was complemented by 
positron emission tomography in 42.1% of cases and in 12.2% with 
mediastinoscopy.
RESULTS: We performed 35 lobectomies (61.4%), 4 bilobectomies (7.0%), 9 wedge 
resections (15.8%) and 5 pneumonectomies (8.8%). All surgeries were performed 
through lateral thoracotomy. In 4 patients (7.0%), anatomic resection was 
aborted intraoperative due to unexpected metastatic disease and/or unresectable 
mass discovered during exploratory thoracotomy. Lymph node dissection was 
complete in 57.8%. Final pathology analysis showed: adenocarcinoma in 50.9% of 
cases, squamous cell carcinoma in 14.0% and carcinoid tumour in 14.0%. Final 
staging was T1 (24.4%), T2 (26.7%), T3-4 (11.1%), N0 (35.5%), N1-2 (4.4%), G1 
(8.9%), G2 (28.9%), G3 (8.9%). Mean hospital stay was 10.7±8.1 days. Main 
surgical complications recorded were: prolonged air leak (15.8%), atelectasis 
requiring bronchoscopy (7.0%) and persistent air chamber on chest 
roentgenography (10.5%). We observed an overall operative mortality of one case 
- 1.8%, which was an 80 year-old patient submitted to a pneumonectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: In conclusion, octogenarians should not be denied surgery 
exclusively due to age. Surgeons should base their decision first on the stage 
of the disease, and then on an accurate assessment of the general clinical 
conditions. Pneumonectomy and extended operations should generally be avoided.

PMID: 23814772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2012 Oct;196(7):1295-305; discussion 1305-6.

[Medical and economic aspects of rheumatoid arthritis].

[Article in French]

Fautrel B(1), Gaujoux-Viala C.

Author information:
(1)Université Paris 6-Pierre & Marie Curie-GRC-08-EEMOIS, Rhumatologie, AP-HP, 
Groupe hospitalier Pitié-Salpêtrière, Paris cedex 13. bruno.fautrel@psl.aphp.fr

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a chronic disabling disease that induces 
substantial costs in terms of healthcare resources (direct costs) and lost 
productivity (indirect costs). The main cost drivers used to be disability and 
hospitalization. Recently, however, the cost of new and expensive therapies has 
exceeded that of hospitalization. These effective treatments have lowered 
RA-related use of healthcare resources, especially totaljoint replacement, as 
well as sick leave. In contrast, they have not yet been shown to reduce the 
number of patients who become disabled, and their cost-effectiveness ratio thus 
tends to be unfavorable.

PMID: 23815015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2012 Oct;196(7):1429-42.

[Physical activities and sport; implications for health and society].

[Article in French]

Bazex J(1), Pène P, Rivière D.

Author information:
(1)L'Académie nationale de médecine. jacques.bazex@gmail.com

The practice of physical and sporting activities (PSA) throughout life is now 
known to increase healthy life expectancy, to delay the onset of dependency, and 
to be an effective complementary treatment for many disorders, particularly 
obesity and disability. The notion of a "sedentary death syndrome " [SeDS] has 
been evoked on the other side of the Atlantic. Although the beneficial effects 
of PSA have long been known, statistical analyses have only recently confirmed 
at the group level what was often disputed at the individual level. Knowledge of 
the impacts of PSA on cellular, tissular and metabolic functions has improved 
considerably. PSA is no longer seen simply as a leisure activity but is now 
considered necessary for a healthy body and mind. PSA also has considerable 
social, educational and integrative implications. Can any society ignore these 
evident health benefits with impunity? The aims of this article are 1) to 
provide a quick overview of the advantages of regular, measured and reasonable 
PSA, as well as the potential risks of excess; 2) to discuss the quantity of PSA 
providing the optimal balance between benefits and risks, and the means of 
achieving this balance; 3) to highlight the lack of enthusiasm for PSA among the 
French population, and to analyze its causes, and 4) to propose a new 
organization designed to help more of our fellow citizens to adopt PSA, in the 
interests of their health and well-being.

PMID: 23815024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 2013 May;122(5):335-8. doi: 
10.1177/000348941312200508.

Causes of dysphagia in a tertiary-care swallowing center.

Hoy M(1), Domer A, Plowman EK, Loch R, Belafsky P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, University of Calgary, 
Calgary, Canada.

OBJECTIVES: Dysphagia can be caused by a myriad of disease processes, and it has 
significant impacts on patients' quality of life, life expectancy, and economic 
burden. To date, the most common causes of dysphagia in outpatient tertiary-care 
swallowing centers are unknown. We undertook this study to determine these 
prevalences. We also describe the diagnostic techniques utilized to establish 
the diagnosis.
METHODS: The electronic charts of 100 consecutive patients who presented to an 
outpatient tertiary-care university swallowing center between January 2010 and 
April 2011 were retrospectively reviewed. Information regarding patient 
demographics, validated symptom surveys, diagnostic workups, and ultimate 
diagnoses was abstracted and tabulated into a central database. Descriptive 
statistics were used to evaluate the association between patient symptoms and 
diagnoses.
RESULTS: The mean age of the entire cohort was 62 +/- 13.5 years, and 58% of the 
cohort was male. The most common identified causes of dysphagia were reflux 
(27%), postirradiation dysphagia (14%), and cricopharyngeus muscle dysfunction 
(11%). In 13% of cases, the cause of dysphagia was undetermined. The diagnostic 
tests utilized included flexible laryngoscopy (71%; 17% with endoscopic swallow 
evaluation), modified barium swallow study (45%), esophagoscopy (35%), barium 
esophagography (21%), manometry (10%), and ambulatory pH testing (2%).
CONCLUSIONS: The most common causes of dysphagia in a tertiary-care swallowing 
center are reflux, postirradiation dysphagia, and cricopharyngeus muscle 
dysfunction. A precise cause for the symptom could not be identified in 13% of 
our cohort. Endoscopic visualization (laryngoscopy, flexible endoscopic 
evaluation of swallowing, and transnasal esophagoscopy) and fluoroscopic swallow 
studies were the investigations most often utilized. These techniques can be 
used to arrive at a diagnosis in 80% of cases.

DOI: 10.1177/000348941312200508
PMID: 23815051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. BMC Infect Dis. 2013 Jul 1;13:295. doi: 10.1186/1471-2334-13-295.

Modeling the public health impact of malaria vaccines for developers and 
policymakers.

Nunes JK, Cárdenas V, Loucq C, Maire N, Smith T, Shaffer C, Måseide K, Brooks A.

BACKGROUND: Efforts to develop malaria vaccines show promise. Mathematical 
model-based estimates of the potential demand, public health impact, and cost 
and financing requirements can be used to inform investment and adoption 
decisions by vaccine developers and policymakers on the use of malaria vaccines 
as complements to existing interventions. However, the complexity of such models 
may make their outputs inaccessible to non-modeling specialists. This paper 
describes a Malaria Vaccine Model (MVM) developed to address the specific needs 
of developers and policymakers, who need to access sophisticated modeling 
results and to test various scenarios in a user-friendly interface. The model's 
functionality is demonstrated through a hypothetical vaccine.
METHODS: The MVM has three modules: supply and demand forecast; public health 
impact; and implementation cost and financing requirements. These modules 
include pre-entered reference data and also allow for user-defined inputs. The 
model includes an integrated sensitivity analysis function. Model functionality 
was demonstrated by estimating the public health impact of a hypothetical 
pre-erythrocytic malaria vaccine with 85% efficacy against uncomplicated disease 
and a vaccine efficacy decay rate of four years, based on 
internationally-established targets. Demand for this hypothetical vaccine was 
estimated based on historical vaccine implementation rates for routine infant 
immunization in 40 African countries over a 10-year period. Assumed purchase 
price was $5 per dose and injection equipment and delivery costs were $0.40 per 
dose.
RESULTS: The model projects the number of doses needed, uncomplicated and severe 
cases averted, deaths and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) averted, and 
cost to avert each. In the demonstration scenario, based on a projected demand 
of 532 million doses, the MVM estimated that 150 million uncomplicated cases of 
malaria and 1.1 million deaths would be averted over 10 years. This is 
equivalent to 943 uncomplicated cases and 7 deaths averted per 1,000 vaccinees. 
In discounted 2011 US dollars, this represents $11 per uncomplicated case 
averted and $1,482 per death averted. If vaccine efficacy were reduced to 75%, 
the estimated uncomplicated cases and deaths averted over 10 years would 
decrease by 14% and 19%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The MVM can provide valuable information to assist decision-making 
by vaccine developers and policymakers, information which will be refined and 
strengthened as field studies progress allowing further validation of modeling 
assumptions.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2334-13-295
PMCID: PMC3711926
PMID: 23815273 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Diabet Med. 2013 Oct;30(10):1236-44. doi: 10.1111/dme.12270. Epub 2013 Aug
19.

The cost-effectiveness of the Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating (DAFNE) 
structured education programme: an update using the Sheffield Type 1 Diabetes 
Policy Model.

Kruger J(1), Brennan A, Thokala P, Basarir H, Jacques R, Elliott J, Heller S, 
Speight J.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, Sheffield, UK.

AIMS: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of training in flexible intensive 
insulin therapy [as provided in the Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating (DAFNE) 
structured education programme] compared with no training for adults with Type 1 
diabetes mellitus in the UK using the Sheffield Type 1 Diabetes Policy Model.
METHODS: The Sheffield Type 1 Diabetes Policy Model was used to simulate the 
development of long-term microvascular and macrovascular diabetes-related 
complications and the occurrence of diabetes-related adverse events in 5000 
adults with Type 1 diabetes. Total costs and quality-adjusted life years were 
estimated from a National Health Service perspective over a lifetime horizon, 
discounted at a rate of 3.5%. The treatment effectiveness of DAFNE was modelled 
as a reduction in HbA1c that affected the risk of developing long-term 
diabetes-related complications. Probabilistic and structural sensitivity 
analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: DAFNE resulted in greater life expectancy and reduced incidence of some 
diabetes-related complications compared with no DAFNE. DAFNE was found to 
generate an average of 0.0294 additional quality-adjusted life years for an 
additional cost of £426 per patient, leading to an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of £14 400 compared with no DAFNE. There was a 54% 
probability that DAFNE would be cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay threshold 
of £20 000 per quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study suggest that DAFNE is a cost-effective 
structured education programme for people with Type 1 diabetes and support its 
provision by the National Health Service in the UK.

© 2013 Crown copyright. Diabetic Medicine © 2013 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/dme.12270
PMID: 23815547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Blood Rev. 2013 Jul;27(4):179-84. doi: 10.1016/j.blre.2013.06.002. Epub 2013
Jun  28.

Hemophilia A in the third millennium.

Franchini M(1), Mannucci PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Transfusion Medicine and Hematology, Carlo Poma Hospital, 
Mantova, Italy.

Hemophilia A is an X-linked hereditary bleeding disorder due to the deficiency 
of coagulation factor VIII (FVIII). According to the degree of FVIII deficiency, 
mild, moderate or severe forms are recognized. Although patients with mild 
hemophilia A usually bleed excessively only after trauma or surgery, those with 
severe hemophilia experience frequent episodes of spontaneous or excessive 
bleeding after minor trauma, particularly into joints and muscles. The modern 
management of hemophilia began in the 1970s and is actually based upon several 
plasma-derived or recombinant FVIII products. In addition, the synthetic drug 
desmopressin can be used to prevent or treat bleeding episodes in patients with 
mild hemophilia A. Long-term and continuous substitution therapy (prophylaxis), 
the recommended treatment in severe hemophilia, prevents bleeding and the 
resultant joint damage. In the last twenty years the high standard of hemophilia 
care has greatly improved the quality of life of patients and their life 
expectancy has reached that of the non-hemophilic male population, at least in 
high-income countries. The most serious and challenging complication of 
treatment of hemophilia A is the development of inhibitors, which renders FVIII 
concentrate infusion ineffective and exposes patients to an increased risk of 
morbidity and mortality. In this narrative review, the actual knowledge on the 
clinical features and management of patients with hemophilia A is summarized.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.blre.2013.06.002
PMID: 23815950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Am Heart J. 2013 Jul;166(1):164-70. doi: 10.1016/j.ahj.2013.03.028. Epub
2013  Apr 28.

Consideration of patient age and life expectancy in implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator referral.

Dewland TA(1), Hsu JC, Castellanos JM, Smith LM, Marcus GM.

Author information:
(1)Electrophysiology Section, Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal 
Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, CA 94143-0124, USA.

BACKGROUND: Primary prevention implantable cardioverter-defibrillator (ICD) 
guidelines recommend device consideration for at-risk patients with a life 
expectancy of greater than 1 year regardless of age. We sought to assess the 
influence of patient age and prognosis on ICD referral.
METHODS: A survey was mailed to a random, national sample of 3,000 physicians in 
the specialties of cardiology, family medicine, and internal medicine. 
Participants were asked focused questions regarding patient age, life 
expectancy, and ICD referral.
RESULTS: The overall response rate was 64%. More than one quarter of physicians 
(n = 386 [27%], 95% CI 25%-30%) withhold primary prevention ICD referral solely 
because of patient age. Life expectancy is not considered by 23% (n = 324, 95% 
CI 20%-25%) of physicians before referral, whereas 13% (n = 144, 95% CI 11%-15%) 
refer patients with a prognosis of less than 1 year. Providers who refer 
patients for ICD implantation with a life expectancy of less than 1 year are 
less likely to be cardiologists (odds ratio [OR] 0.50, 95% CI 0.32-0.79, P = 
.003), are less often affiliated with a teaching hospital (OR 0.62, 95% CI 
0.41-0.94, P = .025), and have a greater number of years in practice (OR 1.25 
for each 10 years in practice, 95% CI 1.03-1.51, P = .026). Only a minority (n = 
315 [22%], 95% CI 20%-24%) of physicians use a life expectancy threshold of 1 
year to guide ICD referral.
CONCLUSION: Physicians frequently withhold ICD referral because of patient age. 
The referral of patients with a prognosis of less than 1 year or without 
consideration of life expectancy is common.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ahj.2013.03.028
PMID: 23816036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Immunobiology. 2013 Dec;218(12):1497-504. doi: 10.1016/j.imbio.2013.05.002.
Epub  2013 May 16.

Adipose tissue inflammation: feeding the development of type 2 diabetes 
mellitus.

Richardson VR(1), Smith KA, Carter AM.

Author information:
(1)Leeds Institute of Genetics Health & Therapeutics, Faculty of Medicine & 
Health and the Multidisciplinary Cardiovascular Research Centre, University of 
Leeds, UK.

The global increase in obesity-induced type 2 diabetes (T2DM) represents a 
burden for healthcare systems worldwide. Of particular concern is the increased 
morbidity associated with T2DM, in particular cardiovascular disease (CVD), 
leading to premature death. Obesity initially leads to the development of 
insulin resistance in adipose and other tissues. Insulin resistance is initially 
compensated by increased insulin secretion but ultimately insufficient insulin 
is produced and this leads to the development of T2DM. Understanding the causal 
mechanisms underpinning the development of obesity-induced insulin resistance 
may be beneficial in improving quality of life and life expectancy, with the 
potential for a major global impact on healthcare systems. There is abundant 
evidence from animal, human studies and in vitro studies to support functional 
roles for a number of inflammatory factors in obesity-induced insulin 
resistance. In this review we provide an overview of the evidence supporting a 
fundamental role for the fluid phase (in particular the complement system) and 
the cellular components of the innate immune system in the pathogenesis of 
obesity-induced insulin resistance and ultimately development of T2DM.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imbio.2013.05.002
PMID: 23816302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. Melanoma Res. 2013 Aug;23(4):331-5. doi: 10.1097/CMR.0b013e328361926c.

Melanoma-related mortality and productivity losses in the USA, 1990-2008.

Bristow BN(1), Casil J, Sorvillo F, Basurto-Dávila R, Kuo T.

Author information:
(1)Preventive Medicine Residency Program, California Department of Public 
Health, Sacramento, California, USA.

Melanoma remains among the deadliest cancers in the USA, ranking presently as 
the leading cause of death from skin disease in this country. The present 
analysis presents national statistics on the health burden (mortality) and 
productivity losses attributable to this cancer over a 19-year period. 
Melanoma-related deaths and mortality rates from 1990 through 2008 were 
identified and calculated using multiple-cause-of-death data and data from the 
2000 US Census. Productivity losses were estimated using previously published 
methods that accounted for life expectancy, labor force participation, 
productivity growth, and the imputed values of caregiving and housekeeping 
activities. A total of 155,571 melanoma-related deaths occurred during 
1990-2008, resulting in 1,811,701 years of potential life lost. Age-adjusted 
mortality rates stratified by sex and race/ethnicity revealed differences: 
whites had the highest rate (3.55 per 100 000 population; 95% confidence 
interval 3.54, 3.57) and male individuals were 2.21 times more likely than 
female individuals to succumb to the disease. Cumulatively, the numbers of death 
for blacks, Hispanics, Asian/Pacific Islanders, and American Indians/Alaskan 
Natives exceeded 6000 deaths. The total productivity losses attributable to 
melanoma-related mortality during the sampled period were ∼$66.9 billion. The 
burden and economic consequences of melanoma-related deaths in the USA are not 
inconsequential. Understanding the mortality trends and productivity losses 
attributed to this skin cancer is important for evaluating the feasibility and 
trade-offs of public health and behavioral counseling interventions that focus 
on promoting skin cancer prevention.

DOI: 10.1097/CMR.0b013e328361926c
PMID: 23817202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Neuropsychopharmacol Hung. 2013 Jun;15(2):58-9.

[Primary prevention with enhancer substances for a longer and healthier life].

[Article in Hungarian]

Miklya I.

PMID: 23817356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Mol Biosyst. 2013 Sep;9(9):2331-43. doi: 10.1039/c3mb70124g.

Modeling the functioning of YtvA in the general stress response in Bacillus 
subtilis.

van der Steen JB(1), Nakasone Y, Hendriks J, Hellingwerf KJ.

Author information:
(1)Molecular Microbial Physiology Group, Swammerdam Institute for Life Sciences 
and the Netherlands Institute for Systems Biology, University of Amsterdam, P.O. 
Box 94232, 1090 GE Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

The blue-light photoreceptor YtvA activates the general stress response (GSR) of 
Bacillus subtilis by activating a large protein complex (the stressosome). We 
have constructed a model for the YtvA's photocycle, and derived an equation for 
the fraction of YtvA in the light-induced signaling state at a given light 
intensity. The model was verified experimentally in vitro on wild type YtvA and 
on an R63K mutant with faster recovery kinetics. Application of the model to the 
activation of the GSR at various light intensities in vivo revealed that the GSR 
is more sensitive to light than would be expected based on YtvA's in vitro 
kinetics. These results were confirmed with the R63K mutant and a 
slower-recovering V28I mutant. Additionally, we have demonstrated the presence 
of a near-UV-light-induced branching reaction that converts the signaling state 
of YtvA to the dark state. Extension of the model with this reaction shows that 
it does not contribute significantly to the in vivo blue-light response. The 
model represents an important step towards a complete systems biology model of 
the GSR.

DOI: 10.1039/c3mb70124g
PMID: 23817467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. Age (Dordr). 2014 Feb;36(1):275-85. doi: 10.1007/s11357-013-9556-5. Epub
2013  Jul 2.

Diagnostic criteria for sarcopenia and physical performance.

Bijlsma AY(1), Meskers CG, van den Eshof N, Westendorp RG, Sipilä S, Stenroth L, 
Sillanpää E, McPhee JS, Jones DA, Narici MV, Gapeyeva H, Pääsuke M, Voit T, 
Barnouin Y, Hogrel JY, Butler-Browne G, Maier AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Section of Gerontology and Geriatrics, VU 
University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Relative and absolute muscle mass and muscle strength are used as diagnostic 
criteria for sarcopenia. We aimed to assess which diagnostic criteria are most 
associated with physical performance in 180 young (18-30 years) and 281 healthy 
old participants (69-81 years) of the European study MYOAGE. Diagnostic criteria 
included relative muscle mass (total or appendicular lean mass (ALM) as 
percentage of body mass), absolute muscle mass (ALM/height squared and total 
lean mass), knee extension torque, and handgrip strength. Physical performance 
comprised walking speed, Timed Up and Go test (TUG), and in a subgroup physical 
fitness. Diagnostic criteria for sarcopenia and physical performance were 
standardized, and the associations were analyzed using linear regression models 
stratified by age category, with adjustments for age, gender, and country. In 
old participants, relative muscle mass was associated with faster walking speed, 
faster TUG, and higher physical fitness (all p < 0.001). Absolute muscle mass 
was not associated with physical performance. Knee extension torque and handgrip 
strength were associated with faster walking speed (both p ≤ 0.003). Knee 
extension torque was associated with TUG (p = 0.001). Knee extension torque and 
handgrip strength were not associated with physical fitness. In young 
participants, there were no significant associations between diagnostic criteria 
for sarcopenia and physical performance, except for a positive association 
between relative muscle mass and physical fitness (p < 0.001). Relative muscle 
mass, defined as lean mass or ALM percentage, was most associated with physical 
performance. Absolute muscle mass including ALM/height squared was not 
associated with physical performance. This should be accounted for when defining 
sarcopenia.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-013-9556-5
PMCID: PMC3889901
PMID: 23818105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. J Rheumatol. 2013 Sep;40(9):1479-86. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.121387. Epub 2013
Jul  1.

Gain in quality-adjusted life-years in patients with rheumatoid arthritis during 
1 year of biological therapy: a prospective study in clinical practice.

Linde L(1), Sørensen J, Østergaard M, Hetland ML.

Author information:
(1)The DANBIO Registry, the Centre for Applied Health Services Research and 
Technology Assessment, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark. 
louiselinde@dadlnet.dk

Erratum in
    J Rheumatol. 2013 Sep;40(9):1634. Merete, Lund Hetland [corrected to 
Hetland, Merete Lund].

Comment in
    J Rheumatol. 2013 Sep;40(9):1469-74.

OBJECTIVE: The quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) is used to measure outcome in 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) studies; identification of drivers of a gain in QALY 
might help predict a treatment response. We investigated how changes in 
components of the Disease Activity Score-28 joints (DAS28) were associated with 
the European League Against Rheumatism (EULAR) and European Quality of Life 5 
Dimensions (EQ-5D) responses; and what baseline variables predicted the change 
in QALY following 1 year of biological therapy.
METHODS: Data were collected at baseline and after 3, 6, and 12 months of 
biological therapy in Danish patients with RA and included bDAS28, 
sociodemographic data, comorbidity, Health Assessment Questionnaire (HAQ), and 
EQ-5D scored using the Danish algorithm. A cross-tabulation based on EULAR 
versus EQ-5D responses was performed, and the association of each DAS28 
component across the EULAR/EQ-5D response groups was tested. Predictors of a 
change in QALY were assessed in a multiple regression model including baseline 
clinical and patient-reported data as explanatory variables.
RESULTS: In total, 315 patients entered the study; 77% were women, 78% IgM 
rheumatoid factor-positive, with mean age 55 (SD 13) years, disease duration 10 
(SD 8) years, mean DAS28 4.9 (SD 1.2), HAQ score 1.22 (SD 0.70), and EQ-5D score 
0.60 (SD 0.19). Sixty-eight percent of patients gained QALY; the mean gain was 
0.14 (SD 0.13). The patient global score was strongly correlated with both EULAR 
and EQ-5D responses. The gain in QALY increased with increasing patient global 
score and number of swollen joints, but not with C-reactive protein (CRP).
CONCLUSION: The subjective patient global score was the best baseline predictor 
of gain in QALY following biological therapy, while the objective CRP measure 
had no predictive value. It seems that no sharp demarcation between objective 
and subjective measures could be determined.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.121387
PMID: 23818719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. J Thorac Dis. 2013 Jun;5 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S47-54. doi: 
10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2013.06.10.

Treatment of breast cancer in young women: do we need more aggressive therapies?

Cancello G(1), Montagna E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Senology, European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy.

Breast cancer diagnosed in young patients has been reported to have a more 
aggressive biologic behaviour and to be associated with a more unfavorable 
prognosis compared with the disease in older patients. However controversies 
exist regarding the optimal treatment and if more aggressive therapies are 
really crucial in this population. Very young women with this disease are faced 
with personal, family, professional, and quality-of-life issues that further 
complicate the phase of treatment decision-making. Moreover it's mandatory in 
young patients to consider the impact of acute but also late toxicities in 
relation to long life-expectancy, too. Dose-dense and high-dose chemotherapy are 
two examples of more aggressive therapies that failed to show a clear beneficial 
in a feasible way compared to standard regimens also in young patients. The 
benefit evidenced in patients with ER-positive disease raises the hypothesis 
that efficacy of dose-intensive chemotherapy might simply be related to its 
endocrine effects. The study of the biology and of the oncogenic pathways should 
be a research priority so to aid management of young patients with breast 
cancer, and more important, to better tailor treatments that could be offered to 
young women or, simply to use better the modalities available today. For the 
time being, young age alone should not be a reason to prescribe more aggressive 
therapies and there are no evidence to recommend a specific chemotherapy regimen 
for young women.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2013.06.10
PMCID: PMC3695541
PMID: 23819027


416. Acta Ophthalmol. 2014 Aug;92(5):478-81. doi: 10.1111/aos.12231. Epub 2013
Jul 2.

Evaluation of grafted patients with donor corneas that today are more than 100 
years old.

Visby E(1), Hjortdal J, Nielsen K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Aarhus University Hospital, Aarhus C, Denmark.

PURPOSE: Life expectancy is increasing. When corneal donors become older and 
corneal-grafted patients live longer with their graft, the need for good-quality 
donor tissue becomes more crucial. The aim of the present investigation is to 
study grafted recipients with a donor cornea with a total tissue age of more 
than 100 years.
METHODS: One thousand consecutive donor records from the Danish Cornea Bank were 
initially reviewed. After applying different inclusion criteria, 35 recipients 
with corneal donor tissue of more than 100 years of age were invited for a 
follow-up visit. Visual acuity, corneal transparency and thickness, and 
intraocular pressure were measured. Corneal topography and endothelial photos 
were taken.
RESULTS:   Seventeen of the invited patients attended the examination. The 
average age of the grafts at examination was 107 years old; the oldest being 118 
years. Most grafts were still clear 23-35 years after transplantation, and 
almost one-fourth had best spectacle-corrected visual acuity (BSCVA) ≥ 0.50. 
Cell morphology showed irregularity in size and shape for both grafted and 
healthy corneas, but the alterations were more extensive in the grafted corneas. 
The average endothelial cell density (ECD) was 1360 mm(2) in the grafted 
corneas. Sixty per cent had ECD > 1000 cells/mm(2). No signs of decompensation 
were observed for those with <1000 cells. The average central corneal thickness 
of the grafts was 0.582 mm (SD = 0.067) compared with 0.494 mm (SD = 0.043) in 
the fellow cornea.
CONCLUSION:   This study shows a trend of moderate long-term survival and 
quality for very old grafts despite low ECD. Most recipients had a clear 
transplant, and one-fifth had BSCVA of 0.80.

© 2013 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12231
PMID: 23819790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Med Decis Making. 2013 Oct;33(7):906-19. doi: 10.1177/0272989X13493145. Epub
 2013 Jul 2.

