Romano S, Insalaco G, Araujo AK, Dellê H, Souza NK, Giannella-Neto D, Oliveira 
LV.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Sciences Master Degree and PhD Program, Nove de Julho 
University (UNINOVE), São Paulo, SP, Brazil. oliveira.lvf@uninove.br.

BACKGROUND: Chronic kidney disease (CKD) is one of the most serious public 
health problems. The increasing prevalence of CKD in developed and developing 
countries has led to a global epidemic. The hypothesis proposed is that patients 
undergoing dialysis would experience a marked negative influence on 
physiological variables of sleep and autonomic nervous system activity, 
compromising quality of life.
METHODS/DESIGN: A prospective, consecutive, double blind, randomized controlled 
clinical trial is proposed to address the effect of dialysis on sleep, pulmonary 
function, respiratory mechanics, upper airway collapsibility, autonomic nervous 
activity, depression, anxiety, stress and quality of life in patients with CKD. 
The measurement protocol will include body weight (kg); height (cm); body mass 
index calculated as weight/height(2); circumferences (cm) of the neck, waist, 
and hip; heart and respiratory rates; blood pressures; Mallampati index; tonsil 
index; heart rate variability; maximum ventilatory pressures; negative 
expiratory pressure test, and polysomnography (sleep study), as well as the 
administration of specific questionnaires addressing sleep apnea, excessive 
daytime sleepiness, depression, anxiety, stress, and quality of life.
DISCUSSION: CKD is a major public health problem worldwide, and its incidence 
has increased in part by the increased life expectancy and increasing number of 
cases of diabetes mellitus and hypertension. Sleep disorders are common in 
patients with renal insufficiency. Our hypothesis is that the weather weight 
gain due to volume overload observed during interdialytic period will influence 
the degree of collapsibility of the upper airway due to narrowing and predispose 
to upper airway occlusion during sleep, and to investigate the negative 
influences of haemodialysis in the physiological variables of sleep, and 
autonomic nervous system, and respiratory mechanics and thereby compromise the 
quality of life of patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The protocol for this study is registered with the Brazilian 
Registry of Clinical Trials (ReBEC RBR-7yhr4w and World Health Organization 
under Universal Trial Number UTN: U1111-1127-9390 
[http://www.ensaiosclinicos.gov.br/rg/RBR-7yhr4w/]).

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2369-14-215
PMCID: PMC3851595
PMID: 24103561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Integr Cancer Ther. 2014 Mar;13(2):121-32. doi: 10.1177/1534735413503546.
Epub  2013 Oct 7.

A pilot study of a home-based motivational exercise program for African American 
breast cancer survivors: clinical and quality-of-life outcomes.

Spector D(1), Deal AM, Amos KD, Yang H, Battaglini CL.

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, NC, USA.

INTRODUCTION: African American breast cancer survivors engage in less physical 
activity compared with their Caucasian counterparts. There is a need for 
exercise intervention research that focuses on improving the overall health and 
long-term survivorship of African American breast cancer survivors, especially 
because they often have worse outcomes than Caucasian survivors. Study 
objectives were to determine whether African American participants increase 
physical activity and explore whether exercise had a positive impact on fitness 
and health.
METHODS: African American breast cancer survivors, stage 0 to IIIA, within 2 
years of completing primary cancer treatments were recruited for a 16-week 
home-based aerobic and resistance training exercise pilot study. Outcome 
measures assessed at baseline and postintervention included physical activity 
questionnaires and accelerometry, cardiopulmonary function (VO2peak) with gas 
exchange, muscle strength, Selective Functional Movement Assessment, and dual 
energy X-ray absorptiometry scans for body composition analysis. Assessments for 
fatigue and quality of life (QOL) were also completed at baseline and 
postintervention. Motivational interviewing was utilized to determine goals and 
explore exercise facilitators/barriers. Participants completed weekly exercise 
logs and received weekly phone calls. Wilcoxon signed rank tests were used to 
detect significant changes in physical activity and also changes in 
fitness/health parameters, fatigue, and QOL. Spearman correlation coefficients 
were used to examine relationships between physical activity and health 
measures.
RESULTS: A total of 17 women enrolled; 13 completed the intervention (76%). Mean 
age of the participants was 51 years. There was a significant increase in total 
minutes of weekly physical activity postintervention ( : = 271 minutes, S: = 
151; : = .001). Significant improvements were found in cardiopulmonary fitness 
as measured by VO2peak with a mean increase of 2.03 mL/kg/min ( : = .01). 
Several strength measures significantly increased and also functional movement ( 
: = .005). Positive correlations existed between physical activity and several 
physical measures, with significant relationships between functional movement 
and some strength measures (eg, left arm extension: RS : = 0.61, : = .002). 
Total QOL and fatigue scores improved, but neither was significant.
CONCLUSIONS: The intervention led to increased physical activity. As a result of 
increased levels of physical activity, improvements on several fitness/health 
parameters occurred.

DOI: 10.1177/1534735413503546
PMCID: PMC10568972
PMID: 24105359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


229. Cancer. 2013 Dec 15;119(24):4299-307. doi: 10.1002/cncr.28322. Epub 2013 Sep
16.

Cost effectiveness of proton therapy compared with photon therapy in the 
management of pediatric medulloblastoma.

Mailhot Vega RB(1), Kim J, Bussière M, Hattangadi J, Hollander A, Michalski J, 
Tarbell NJ, Yock T, MacDonald SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Washington University in St. Louis School 
of Medicine, St. Louis, Missouri.

BACKGROUND: Proton therapy has been a hotly contested issue in both scientific 
publications and lay media. Proponents cite the modality's ability to spare 
healthy tissue, but critics claim the benefit gained from its use does not 
validate its cost compared with photon therapy. The objective of this study was 
to evaluate the cost effectiveness of proton therapy versus photon therapy in 
the management of pediatric medulloblastoma.
METHODS: A cost-effective analysis was performed from the societal perspective 
using a Monte Carlo simulation model. A population of pediatric medulloblastoma 
survivors aged 18 years was studied who had received treatment at age 5 years 
and who were at risk of developing 10 adverse events, such as growth hormone 
deficiency, coronary artery disease, ototoxicity, secondary malignant neoplasm, 
and death. Costing data included the cost of investment and the costs of 
diagnosis and management of adverse health states from institutional and 
Medicare data. Longitudinal outcomes data and recent modeling studies informed 
risk parameters for the model. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were used 
to measure outcomes.
RESULTS: Results from the base case demonstrated that proton therapy was 
associated with higher quality-adjusted life years and lower costs; therefore, 
it dominated photon therapy. In 1-way sensitivity analyses, proton therapy 
remained the more attractive strategy, either dominating photon therapy or 
having a very low cost per quality-adjust life year gained. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis illustrated the domination of proton therapy over photon 
therapy in 96.4% of simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: By using current risk estimates and data on required capital 
investments, the current study indicated that proton therapy is a cost-effective 
strategy for the management of pediatric patients with medulloblastoma compared 
with standard of care photon therapy.

© 2013 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28322
PMID: 24105630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. BMC Neurol. 2013 Oct 9;13:142. doi: 10.1186/1471-2377-13-142.

Home and health in people ageing with Parkinson's disease: study protocol for a 
prospective longitudinal cohort survey study.

Nilsson MH(1), Iwarsson S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Lund University, Box 157, SE-221 00 Lund, 
Sweden. Maria_H.Nilsson@med.lu.se.

BACKGROUND: With an increased life expectancy for the general population as well 
as for those ageing with chronic diseases, there are major challenges to the 
affected individuals and their families, but also to health care and societal 
planning. Most important, an increasing proportion of older people remain living 
in their ordinary homes despite health decline and disability. However, little 
is known about the home and health situation of people ageing with Parkinson's 
disease (PD), and older people are often excluded from PD-research.
METHODS/DESIGN: The overall aim of the present project is to generate knowledge 
on home and health dynamics in people with PD, with an explicit attention to 
PD-specific symptomatology. We will concentrate on aspects of home and health 
captured by state-of-the-art methodology from gerontology as well as 
PD-research, health science and rehabilitation. This study protocol describes a 
longitudinal cohort survey study that includes a baseline data collection and a 
3-year follow-up. Both data collection waves include self-administered 
questionnaires, structured interviews, clinical assessments and observations 
during home visits effectuated by research staff with project-specific training. 
In order to arrive at a follow-up sample of N=160, 250 participants identified 
by PD specialist nurses are being recruited from three hospitals in southern 
Sweden. With no lower or upper age limit, only those diagnosed with PD since at 
least one year were included. The exclusion criteria were: difficulties in 
understanding or speaking Swedish and/or cognitive difficulties/other reasons 
making the individual unable to give informed consent or to take part in the 
majority of the data collection. The data collection targets environmental 
factors such as assistive devices, social support, physical environmental 
barriers, accessibility problems and perceived aspects of home. A broad variety 
of instruments tap PD-specific problems (e.g. freezing of gait, fear of falling) 
and health-related issues such as general self-efficacy, body functions, 
activities and participation.
DISCUSSION: This project will produce knowledge to the benefit of the 
development of health care and societal planning that targets people ageing with 
PD, ultimately promoting activity and participation and an increase of the 
number of healthy life years for this sub-group of the population.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2377-13-142
PMCID: PMC3852257
PMID: 24107116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Aging (Albany NY). 2013 Oct;5(10):741-58. doi: 10.18632/aging.100604.

TAF-4 is required for the life extension of isp-1, clk-1 and tpk-1 Mit mutants.

Khan MH(1), Ligon M, Hussey LR, Hufnal B, Farber R 2nd, Munkácsy E, Rodriguez A, 
Dillow A, Kahlig E, Rea SL.

Author information:
(1)Barshop Institute for Longevity and Aging Studies and Department of 
Physiology, University of Texas Health Science Center at San Antonio, San 
Antonio, TX 78245, USA.

While numerous life-extending manipulations have been discovered in the nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans, one that remains most enigmatic is disruption of 
oxidative phosphorylation. In order to unravel how such an ostensibly 
deleterious manipulation can extend lifespan, we sought to identify the ensemble 
of nuclear transcription factors that are activated in response to defective 
mitochondrial electron transport chain (ETC) function. Using a feeding RNAi 
approach, we targeted over 400 transcription factors and identified 15 that, 
when reduced in function, reproducibly and differentially altered the 
development, stress response, and/or fecundity of isp-1(qm150) Mit mutants 
relative to wild-type animals. Seven of these transcription factors--AHA-1, 
CEH-18, HIF-1, JUN-1, NHR-27, NHR-49 and the CREB homolog-1 (CRH-1)-interacting 
protein TAF-4--were also essential for isp-1 life extension. When we tested the 
involvement of these seven transcription factors in the life extension of two 
other Mit mutants, namely clk-1(qm30) and tpk-1(qm162), TAF-4 and HIF-1 were 
consistently required. Our findings suggest that the Mit phenotype is under the 
control of multiple transcriptional responses, and that TAF-4 and HIF-1 may be 
part of a general signaling axis that specifies Mit mutant life extension.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100604
PMCID: PMC3838777
PMID: 24107417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


232. Neurology. 2013 Oct 29;81(18):1588-95. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182a9f45f.
Epub  2013 Oct 9.

Quality of life after TIA and stroke: ten-year results of the Oxford Vascular 
Study.

Luengo-Fernandez R(1), Gray AM, Bull L, Welch S, Cuthbertson F, Rothwell PM; 
Oxford Vascular Study.

Author information:
(1)From the Health Economics Research Centre (R.L.-F., A.M.G.), Nuffield 
Department of Population Health, University of Oxford; and the Stroke Prevention 
Research Unit (L.B., S.W., F.C., P.M.R), Nuffield Department of Clinical 
Neurosciences, John Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the 5-year impact of stroke and TIA on utility and 
quality-adjusted survival.
METHODS: TIA and stroke patients from a UK population-based study (Oxford 
Vascular Study) were recruited from 2002 to 2007, and followed up until 2012. 
Quality of life was assessed over 5 years using the EQ-5D (EuroQol-5 
Dimensions), with responses converted into utilities ranging from -0.59 (worse 
than death) to 1 (perfect health), using UK population valuations. Utilities for 
stroke and TIA patients were compared with those in matched controls obtained 
from the 2006 Health Survey for England. Five-year quality-adjusted life years 
were estimated by combining utility and survival information.
RESULTS: Four hundred forty TIA and 748 stroke patients were ascertained and 
included. Utility remained constant at approximately 0.78 over the 5 years after 
TIA. Utility improved from 0.64 one month after stroke to 0.70 at 6 months (p = 
0.006), remaining at approximately 0.70 thereafter. Matched controls had 
considerably higher utility levels than stroke/TIA patients (0.85, p < 0.001). 
Event severity and recurrent stroke were significant predictors of decreased 
long-term utility. Five-year quality-adjusted life expectancy was 3.32 (95% 
confidence interval: 3.22-3.48) quality-adjusted life years after TIA and 2.21 
(2.15-2.37) after stroke, varying considerably by severity (minor: 2.94; 
moderate: 1.65; and severe: 0.70).
CONCLUSION: Quality-adjusted survival is low over the 5 years after stroke and 
TIA, with severity and recurrent stroke being major predictors. There remains 
considerable scope for improvements in acute treatment and secondary prevention 
to improve the quality of life after TIA and stroke.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0b013e3182a9f45f
PMCID: PMC3806919
PMID: 24107865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Biomed Pap Med Fac Univ Palacky Olomouc Czech Repub. 2015 Jun;159(2):313-7.
doi:  10.5507/bp.2013.069. Epub 2013 Sep 30.

Experience with the treatment of bisphosphonate-related osteonecrosis of the 
jaw.

Janovska Z(1), Mottl R(1), Slezak R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dentistry, Charles University in Prague, Faculty of Medicine 
and University Hospital Hradec Kralove, Czech Republic.

AIM: This article covers the authors' experience with the treatment of 
bisphosphonate-related osteonecrosis of the jaw in 11 individuals.
METHODS: A retrospective study of patients diagnosed and treated for 
bisphosphonate-related osteonecrosis of the jaw at the Department of Dentistry, 
University Hospital Hradec Králové during the period January 2006 to October 
2012. The treatment protocol consisted of antimicrobial mouth rinses and 
systemic antibiotic administration according to the stage of the disease. 
Additional surgical debridement and sequestrectomy in combination with 
antimicrobial therapy was performed in two cases.
RESULTS: Complete healing was achieved in six patients. In two cases, 
satisfactory healing was noted. Stage of the disease was lowered and only a 
small area of asymptomatic necrotic bone of up to five mm in diameter persisted. 
Two patients developed a stable disease without progression. In one patient, the 
disease progressed to the third stage with osteonecrosis involving all quadrants 
of both jaws.
CONCLUSION: From these data it was concluded that conservative approach in the 
treatment of bisphosphonate-related osteonecrosis of the jaw led to symptom 
regression but was not curative. Surgical intervention, however, bears the risk 
of further progression of the osteonecrosis and must be carefully planned with 
respect to the patient's general health status and life expectancy. The 
treatment of bisphosphonate-related osteonecrosis of the jaw is generally 
difficult. For this reason, prevention plays a predominant role in the 
management of the disease.

DOI: 10.5507/bp.2013.069
PMID: 24108250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. Gac Med Mex. 2013 Sep-Oct;149(5):576-85.

[Mortality trends and years of potential life lost from prostate cancer in the 
32 states and 7 sociecononomic regions of Mexico, 2000-2010].

[Article in Spanish]

Sánchez-Barriga JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Dirección de Investigación Operativa en Epidemiología. Dirección General de 
Epidemiología. Secretaria de Salud, México, D.F. jsanchez@dgepi.salud.gob.mx.

OBJECTIVE: To determine trends of mortality from prostate cancer (PC) and years 
of potential life lost (YPLL) by federative entity and by socioeconomic region 
in the period 2000-2010.
METHODS: Records of mortality associated with PC 2000-2010 were obtained from 
the National Information System of the Secretariat of Health. This information 
is generated by the National Institute of Statistics and Geography through death 
certificates issued throughout the country. International Classification of 
Diseases, 10th revision, codes corresponding to the basic cause of death from PC 
were identified. Rates of mortality nationwide, by state, and by socioeconomic 
region were calculated. Rates of YPLL were calculated by federative entity and 
by socioeconomic region. The seven socioeconomic regions were elaborated by the 
National Institute of Statistics and Geography and include the 31 states and 
Mexico City according to indicators that are related to well-being such as 
education, occupation, health, housing, and employment.
RESULTS: Raw mortality rates per 100,000 inhabitants who died from PC increased 
from 7.8 to 9.8 between 2000-2010. The states and socioeconomic regions with the 
higher rates of mortality from PC were Sinaloa, Sonora, Baja California Sur, 
Nayarit, Colima and regions 6 and 3. The state and socioeconomic regions with 
higher rate of APVP from PC were Aguascalientes, Nuevo León, Campeche, Baja 
California Sur, Durango and regions 6, 5, 3, 1 and 2.
CONCLUSIONS: Raw mortality rates per 100,000 inhabitants who died from PC 
increased from 7.8 to 9.8 between 2000-2010. The states and socioeconomic region 
with the higher mortality rates were Sinaloa, Sonora, Baja California Sur, 
Nayarit, Colima and regions 6 and 3. Mexico.

PMID: 24108346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Rev Gastroenterol Peru. 2013 Jul-Sep;33(3):217-22.

[Impact of duodenopancreatectomy in elder patients].

[Article in Spanish]

Targarona J(1), Callacondo D, Pino C, Rodriguez C, Coayla G, Garatea R, Barreda 
C, Barreda L.

Author information:
(1)Servicio Cirugía de Páncreas, Hospital Edgardo Rebagliati. Lima, Perú.

The incidence of periampullary neoplasms substantially increases with age. If we 
take into account that this incidence is higher in the elder patient and that 
life expectancy is nowadays longer, questioning surgical approach in this group 
of patients turns out to be controversial.
OBJECTIVE: [corrected] Asses if in the elder patients the duodenopancreatectomy 
has a higher mortality and complications.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A retrospective study including patients who underwent 
duodenopancreatectomy between October 2002 and June 2012 was undertaken to 
assess whether the elder ones had a higher morbidity and mortality after 
surgery. Patients were distributed in two groups according to age. The first 
group included 240 patients younger than 75 years, and the second one included 
74 patients older than 75 years. There wasn't NO significant difference in 
morbidity between the two groups.
RESULTS: General mortality for the whole series was 4%. The first group had a 
2.9% mortality whereas in the second one mortality reached 4.9%, a significant 
difference. However, when we changed the reference age from 75 years to 65 or 70 
years the difference was not significant any more.
CONCLUSION: From this study we can ascertain that an age more than 75 years 
significantly increases the mortality risk in duodenopancreatectomy patients. 
This age, however, doesn't proscribe surgical approach, since surgery is the 
only choice for curative treatment in patients with this type of cancer.

PMID: 24108374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Am J Ind Med. 2014 Jan;57(1):38-48. doi: 10.1002/ajim.22261. Epub 2013 Sep
20.

Diseases attributable to asbestos exposure: years of potential life lost, United 
States, 1999-2010.

Bang KM(1), Mazurek JM, Wood JM, Hendricks SA.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, National Institute for 
Occupational Safety and Health, Morgantown, West Virginia.

BACKGROUND: Although asbestos use has been restricted in recent decades, 
asbestos-associated deaths continue to occur in the United States.
OBJECTIVES: We evaluated premature mortality and loss of potentially productive 
years of life attributable to asbestos-associated diseases.
METHODS: Using 1999-2010 National Center for Health Statistics mortality data, 
we identified decedents aged ≥25 years whose death certificate listed asbestosis 
and malignant mesothelioma as the underlying cause of death. We computed years 
of potential life lost to life expectancy (YPLL) and to age 65 (YPLL65 ).
RESULTS: During 1999-2010, a total of 427,005 YPLL and 55,184 YPLL65 were 
attributed to asbestosis (56,907 YPLL and 2,167 YPLL65 ), malignant mesothelioma 
(370,098 YPPL and 53,017 YPLL65 ). Overall and disease-specific 
asbestos-attributable total YPLL and YPLL65 and median YPLL and YPLL65 per 
decedent did not change significantly from 1999 to 2010.
CONCLUSIONS: The continuing occurrence of asbestos-associated diseases and their 
substantial premature mortality burden underscore the need for maintaining 
prevention efforts and for ongoing surveillance to monitor temporal trends in 
these diseases.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajim.22261
PMCID: PMC4522907
PMID: 24108494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure Statement: The authors report no 
conflicts of interests.


237. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2013;2013:334-7. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2013.6609505.

Control of wearable motion assist robot for upper limb based on the equilibrium 
position estimation.

Mizutani N, Yamane M, Kato N, Yano K, Aoki T, Nishimoto Y, Kobayashi Y.

In this paper, we propose a robotic system for assisting patients who have upper 
limb dysfunction in performing reaching movements through flexion. Since upper 
limb motion is more strongly needed than lower limb mobility for near work, a 
patient's level of recovery of upper limb function influences daily life. 
Recently, with the widespread application of robotic technology in 
rehabilitation medicine, active movement has often been noted to be more 
important than passive movement for rapid recovery. A novel control method for 
assisting upper limb movement by using a control system with two degrees of 
freedom is proposed. In the process of estimating the trajectory, the minimum 
jerk criterion is used to compute the velocity trajectory and to determine the 
reach position. The aim is to eventually develop a movement assistance system 
for the upper limb which will enable wearers to perform flexion and extension 
covering ranges of motion which are otherwise impossible to achieve 
autonomously. The effectiveness of the developed system is demonstrated 
experimentally.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2013.6609505
PMID: 24109692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Annu Int Conf IEEE Eng Med Biol Soc. 2013;2013:4223-6. doi: 
10.1109/EMBC.2013.6610477.

Comparison of surface and intramuscular EMG pattern recognition for simultaneous 
wrist/hand motion classification.

Smith LH, Hargrove LJ.

The simultaneous control of multiple degrees of freedom (DOFs) is important for 
the intuitive, life-like control of artificial limbs. The objective of this 
study was to determine whether the use of intramuscular electromyogram (EMG) 
improved pattern classification of simultaneous wrist/hand movements compared to 
surface EMG. Two pattern classification methods were used in this analysis, and 
were trained to predict 1-DOF and 2-DOF movements involving wrist rotation, 
wrist flexion/extension, and hand open/close. The classification methods used 
were (1) a single pattern classifier discriminating between 1-DOF and 2-DOF 
motion classes, and (2) a parallel set of three classifiers to predict the 
activity of each of the 3 DOFs. We demonstrate that in this combined wrist/hand 
classification task, the use of intramuscular EMG significantly decreases 
classification error compared to surface EMG for the parallel configuration 
(p<0.01), but not for the single classifier. We also show that the use of 
intramuscular EMG mitigates the increase in errors produced when the parallel 
classifier method is trained without 2-DOF motion class data.

DOI: 10.1109/EMBC.2013.6610477
PMCID: PMC3914139
PMID: 24110664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Mol Plant Microbe Interact. 2014 Feb;27(2):150-62. doi: 
10.1094/MPMI-09-13-0272-R.

The C-terminus of Wheat streak mosaic virus coat protein is involved in 
differential infection of wheat and maize through host-specific long-distance 
transport.

Tatineni S, French R.

Erratum in
    Mol Plant Microbe Interact. 2014 Apr;27(4):400.

Viral determinants and mechanisms involved in extension of host range of 
monocot-infecting viruses are poorly understood. Viral coat proteins (CP) serve 
many functions in almost every aspect of the virus life cycle. The role of the 
C-terminal region of Wheat streak mosaic virus (WSMV) CP in virus biology was 
examined by mutating six negatively charged aspartic acid residues at positions 
216, 289, 290, 326, 333, and 334. All of these amino acid residues are 
dispensable for virion assembly, and aspartic acid residues at positions 216, 
333, and 334 are expendable for normal infection of wheat and maize. However, 
mutants D289N, D289A, D290A, DD289/290NA, and D326A exhibited slow cell-to-cell 
movement in wheat, which resulted in delayed onset of systemic infection, 
followed by a rapid recovery of genomic RNA accumulation and symptom 
development. Mutants D289N, D289A, and D326A inefficiently infected maize, 
eliciting milder symptoms, while D290A and DD289/290NA failed to infect 
systemically, suggesting that the C-terminus of CP is involved in differential 
infection of wheat and maize. Mutation of aspartic acid residues at amino acid 
positions 289, 290, and 326 severely debilitated virus ingress into the vascular 
system of maize but not wheat, suggesting that these amino acids facilitate 
expansion of WSMV host range through host-specific long-distance transport.

DOI: 10.1094/MPMI-09-13-0272-R
PMID: 24111920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


240. J Forensic Leg Med. 2013 Oct;20(7):816-20. doi: 10.1016/j.jflm.2013.06.022.
Epub  2013 Aug 6.

Future delivery of the Drug Interventions Programme: do the benefits justify the 
costs?

Osborne A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, Western Bank, Sheffield S10 2TN, United Kingdom. 
Electronic address: mda08ao@sheffield.ac.uk.

The Drug Interventions Programme is an initiative employed by the Home Office in 
2003 to integrate the Criminal Justice System with drug treatment services with 
the ultimate goal of reducing acquisitive crime. Drug Action Teams employ this 
scheme on a local level by providing a broad range of services for misusers in 
the community. Although much attention has been placed on societal gains, there 
is an added benefit in improving the health outcomes of those referred. Opioid 
replacement therapy decreases illicit heroin use, reduces mortality and 
maintains contact with misusers allowing for psychosocial intervention. The Drug 
Interventions Programme provides direct access to such treatment in an otherwise 
high-risk and disengaged population. Anecdotal evidence of the programme is 
positive; with improved mental and physical health in offenders and a reduction 
in hospital admissions. However, monitoring health outcomes in offenders is 
challenging as long-term follow-up is difficult, poor compliance is an issue and 
coercive referrals may introduce a reporting bias. Drug Action Team services are 
cost-effective due a lower consumption of health and social care and reduced 
offending levels. The Drug Interventions Programme has been successful in 
maintaining offenders in treatment and the Home Office claim its role in 
reducing crime is cost-saving. Future delivery of the initiative is at risk due 
to spending reductions, competing interests and a focus towards payment by 
results. Opposition to future implementation of the Drug Interventions Programme 
must be met with evidence for its effectiveness in order to ensure its continued 
investment.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd and Faculty of Forensic and Legal Medicine. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jflm.2013.06.022
PMID: 24112327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]241. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2014 Jul;14(3):620-7. doi: 10.1111/ggi.12148. Epub
2013  Sep 30.

Description of extreme longevity in the Balearic Islands: Exploring a potential 
Blue Zone in Menorca, Spain.

Soriano JB(1), Fernández Vázquez S, Carretero S, Puga González MD, Soriano C, 
Romaguera D, Alonso-Fernández A, Busquets X, Balcells S, Grinberg D, Poulain M.

Author information:
(1)Fundación Caubet-Cimera Illes Balears, Bunyola, Spain.

AIM: We aimed to determine whether there was a Blue Zone, an area characterized 
by extreme longevity, in Menorca, Spain.
METHODS: We explored official statistics of the Balearic Islands, Spain, and 
calculated life expectancy from 1991 to 2009, by sex and island, among other 
demographic estimators.
RESULTS: The life expectancy at birth in Menorca reached a peak in 2007 with 
82.3 years, but since 2001 in females and 2007 in males, it plateaued and then 
descended. The percentage of centenarians in Es Migjorn Gran was 0.17% in 2001, 
only because of the 0.33% male contribution, and it returned to within the 
average Balearic rates. There is no record of any other surviving centenarian 
after 2006 in Es Migjorn Gran. Results obtained with other demographic indices 
are confirmatory.
CONCLUSIONS: It appears there was no extreme longevity or Blue Zone in Es 
Migjorn Gran and the surrounding villages in Menorca.

© 2013 Japan Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ggi.12148
PMID: 24112374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


242. Reprod Fertil Dev. 2013;25(8):1165-73. doi: 10.1071/RD12296.

The progression of small-follicle reserves in the ovaries of wild African 
elephants (Loxodonta africana) from puberty to reproductive senescence.

Stansfield FJ(1), Nöthling JO, Allen WR.

Author information:
(1)The Elephant Research and Conservation Unit, Savé Valley Conservancy, c/o 490 
Borrowdale Brooke, Harare, Zimbabwe.

This study aimed to determine whether the follicle reserve in the ovary of the 
African elephant declines progressively after puberty and whether its depletion 
constrains the fertility of older females. Elephant ovaries were fixed in 4% 
neutral buffered formalin and small-follicle counts made using stereological 
protocols. Excepting a slight rise in small-follicle numbers between 16 and 25 
years of age, there was a trend for follicle numbers to fall from puberty to 70 
years. Reproductive status did not impact significantly on small-follicle 
numbers (P=0.31). The number of early primary follicles, initially higher in 
number than true primary follicles, fell from post-puberty to nil at 45 years of 
age. Six of the seven oldest animals in the study showed signs of recent ovarian 
activity in the form of antral follicles, corpora lutea or large corpora nigra. 
The four oldest elephants (mean age 69 years) had a median small-follicle count 
of 11,113. In summary, it appears that the elephant ovary is capable of 
supplying oocytes for ovulation right up to the time of death at the age of 
maximum life expectancy, although the follicle reserve becomes depleted in some 
older elephants.

DOI: 10.1071/RD12296
PMID: 24112390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Semin Dial. 2013 Nov-Dec;26(6):682-9. doi: 10.1111/sdi.12131. Epub 2013 Sep
24.

Timing of dialysis initiation in the geriatric population: toward a 
patient-centered approach.

Treit K(1), Lam D, O'Hare AM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington.

Over the last 10-15 years, the incidence of treated end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD) among older adults has increased and dialysis is being initiated at 
progressively higher levels of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR). 
Average life expectancy after dialysis initiation among older adults is quite 
limited, and many experience an escalation of care and loss of independence 
after starting dialysis. Available data suggest that treatment decisions about 
dialysis initiation in older adults in the United States are guided more by 
system- than by patient-level factors. Stronger efforts are thus needed to 
ensure that treatment decisions for older adults with advanced kidney disease 
are optimally aligned with their goals and preferences. There is growing 
interest in more conservative approaches to the management of advanced kidney 
disease in older patients who prefer not to initiate dialysis and those for whom 
the harms of dialysis are expected to outweigh the benefits. A number of small 
single center studies, mostly from the United Kingdom report similar survival 
among the subset of older adults with a high burden of comorbidity treated with 
dialysis vs. those managed conservatively. However, the incidence of treated 
ESRD in older US adults is several-fold higher than in the United Kingdom, 
despite a similar prevalence of chronic kidney disease, suggesting large 
differences in the social, cultural, and economic context in which dialysis 
treatment decisions unfold. Thus, efforts may be needed to adapt conservative 
care models developed outside the United States to optimally meet the needs of 
US patients. More flexible approaches toward dialysis prescription and better 
integration of treatment decisions about conservative care with those related to 
modality selection will likely be helpful in meeting the needs of individual 
patients. Regardless of the chosen treatment strategy, time can often be a 
critical ally in centering care on what matters most to the patient, and a 
flexible and iterative approach of re-evaluation and redirection may often be 
needed to ensure that treatment strategies are fully aligned with patient 
priorities.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/sdi.12131
PMID: 24112631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Zhonghua Xin Xue Guan Bing Za Zhi. 2013 Jun;41(6):454-6.

[Explanation of comparative studies on global burden of disease between 1990 and 
2010].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang XF, Wang JA, Hu DY.

PMID: 24113034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2013 Nov;142(1):153-63. doi:
10.1007/s10549-013-2720-x.  Epub 2013 Oct 11.

Long-term surveillance mammography and mortality in older women with a history 
of early stage invasive breast cancer.

Buist DS(1), Bosco JL, Silliman RA, Gold HT, Field T, Yood MU, Quinn VP, Prout 
M, Lash TL; Breast Cancer Outcomes in Older Women (BOW) Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Group Health Research Institute, 1730 Minor Ave, Suite 1600, Seattle, WA, 
98101, USA, buist.d@ghc.org.

Annual surveillance mammograms in older long-term breast cancer survivors are 
recommended, but this recommendation is based on little evidence and with no 
guidelines on when to stop. Surveillance mammograms should decrease breast 
cancer mortality by detecting second breast cancer events at an earlier stage. 
We examined the association between surveillance mammography beyond 5 years 
after diagnosis on breast cancer-specific mortality in a cohort of women aged ≥ 
65 years diagnosed 1990-1994 with early stage breast cancer. Our cohort included 
women who survived disease free for ≥ 5 years (N = 1,235) and were followed from 
year 6 through death, disenrollment, or 15 years after diagnosis. Asymptomatic 
surveillance mammograms were ascertained through medical record review. We used 
Cox proportional hazards regression stratified by follow-up year to calculate 
the association between time-varying surveillance mammography and breast 
cancer-specific and other-than-breast mortality adjusting for site, stage, 
primary surgery type, age and time-varying Charlson Comorbidity Index. The 
majority (85 %) of the 1,235 5-year breast cancer survivors received ≥ 1 
surveillance mammogram in years 5-9 (yearly proportions ranged from 48 to 58 %); 
82 % of women received ≥ 1 surveillance mammogram in years 10-14. A total of 120 
women died of breast cancer and 393 women died from other causes (average 
follow-up 7.3 years). Multivariable models and lasagna plots suggested a modest 
reduction in breast cancer-specific mortality with surveillance mammogram 
receipt in the preceding year (IRR 0.82, 95 % CI 0.56-1.19, p = 0.29); the 
association with other-cause mortality was 0.95 (95 % CI 0.78-1.17, p = 0.64). 
Among older breast cancer survivors, surveillance mammography may reduce breast 
cancer-specific mortality even after 5 years of disease-free survival. 
Continuing surveillance mammography in older breast cancer survivors likely 
requires physician-patient discussions similar to those recommended for 
screening, taking into account comorbid conditions and life-expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-013-2720-x
PMCID: PMC3857395
PMID: 24113745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Arch Osteoporos. 2013;8(1):136. doi: 10.1007/s11657-013-0136-1. Epub 2013
Oct  11.

Osteoporosis in the European Union: medical management, epidemiology and 
economic burden. A report prepared in collaboration with the International 
Osteoporosis Foundation (IOF) and the European Federation of Pharmaceutical 
Industry Associations (EFPIA).

Hernlund E(1), Svedbom A, Ivergård M, Compston J, Cooper C, Stenmark J, 
McCloskey EV, Jönsson B, Kanis JA.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Stockholm, Sweden.

This report describes the epidemiology, burden, and treatment of osteoporosis in 
the 27 countries of the European Union (EU27).
INTRODUCTION: Osteoporosis is characterized by reduced bone mass and disruption 
of bone architecture, resulting in increased risk of fragility fractures which 
represent the main clinical consequence of the disease. Fragility fractures are 
associated with substantial pain and suffering, disability and even death for 
affected patients and substantial costs to society. The aim of this report was 
to characterize the burden of osteoporosis in the EU27 in 2010 and beyond.
METHODS: The literature on fracture incidence and costs of fractures in the EU27 
was reviewed and incorporated into a model estimating the clinical and economic 
burden of osteoporotic fractures in 2010.
RESULTS: Twenty-two million women and 5.5 million men were estimated to have 
osteoporosis; and 3.5 million new fragility fractures were sustained, comprising 
610,000 hip fractures, 520,000 vertebral fractures, 560,000 forearm fractures 
and 1,800,000 other fractures (i.e. fractures of the pelvis, rib, humerus, 
tibia, fibula, clavicle, scapula, sternum and other femoral fractures). The 
economic burden of incident and prior fragility fractures was estimated at 
<euro> 37 billion. Incident fractures represented 66 % of this cost, long-term 
fracture care 29 % and pharmacological prevention 5 %. Previous and incident 
fractures also accounted for 1,180,000 quality-adjusted life years lost during 
2010. The costs are expected to increase by 25 % in 2025. The majority of 
individuals who have sustained an osteoporosis-related fracture or who are at 
high risk of fracture are untreated and the number of patients on treatment is 
declining.
CONCLUSIONS: In spite of the high social and economic cost of osteoporosis, a 
substantial treatment gap and projected increase of the economic burden driven 
by the aging populations, the use of pharmacological interventions to prevent 
fractures has decreased in recent years, suggesting that a change in healthcare 
policy is warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s11657-013-0136-1
PMCID: PMC3880487
PMID: 24113837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Arch Osteoporos. 2013;8(1):137. doi: 10.1007/s11657-013-0137-0. Epub 2013
Oct  11.

Osteoporosis in the European Union: a compendium of country-specific reports.

Svedbom A(1), Hernlund E, Ivergård M, Compston J, Cooper C, Stenmark J, 
McCloskey EV, Jönsson B, Kanis JA; EU Review Panel of IOF.

Collaborators: Dimai HP, Hiligsmann M, Goemaere S, Reginster JY, Borissova AM, 
Boyanov M, Kolarov Z, Kovacheva R, Rachkov R, Popivanov P, Shinkov A, Georgiades 
GL, Bayer M, Abrahamsen B, Maasalu K, Kröger H, Dreinhoefer K, Lyritis GP, 
Makras P, Lakatos P, Marton I, Szekeres L, Zalatnai K, O'Brien M, Brandi ML, 
Rossini M, Silveri F, Berza S, Pavlina I, Rasa I, Alekna V, Tamulaitiene M, 
Hirsch M, Galea RP, Papapoulos S, Badurski JE, Czerwinski E, Jaworski M, Lorenc 
R, Monteiro J, Grigorie D, Jackuliak P, Masaryk P, Payer J, Kocjan T, Diez-Perez 
A, Åkesson K.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Stockholm, Sweden.

This report describes epidemiology, burden, and treatment of osteoporosis in 
each of the 27 countries of the European Union (EU27).
INTRODUCTION: In 2010, 22 million women and 5.5 million men were estimated to 
have osteoporosis in the EU; and 3.5 million new fragility fractures were 
sustained, comprising 620,000 hip fractures, 520,000 vertebral fractures, 
560,000 forearm fractures and 1,800,000 other fractures. The economic burden of 
incident and prior fragility fractures was estimated at € 37 billion. Previous 
and incident fractures also accounted for 1,180,000 quality-adjusted life years 
lost during 2010. The costs are expected to increase by 25 % in 2025. The 
majority of individuals who have sustained an osteoporosis-related fracture or 
who are at high risk of fracture are untreated and the number of patients on 
treatment is declining. The aim of this report was to characterize the burden of 
osteoporosis in each of the EU27 countries in 2010 and beyond.
METHODS: The data on fracture incidence and costs of fractures in the EU27 were 
taken from a concurrent publication in this journal (Osteoporosis in the 
European Union: Medical Management, Epidemiology and Economic Burden) and 
country specific information extracted.
RESULTS: The clinical and economic burden of osteoporotic fractures in 2010 is 
given for each of the 27 countries of the EU. The costs are expected to increase 
on average by 25 % in 2025. The majority of individuals who have sustained an 
osteoporosis-related fracture or who are at high risk of fracture are untreated 
and the number of patients on treatment is declining.
CONCLUSIONS: In spite of the high cost of osteoporosis, a substantial treatment 
gap and projected increase of the economic burden driven by aging populations, 
the use of pharmacological prevention of osteoporosis has decreased in recent 
years, suggesting that a change in healthcare policy concerning the disease is 
warranted.

DOI: 10.1007/s11657-013-0137-0
PMCID: PMC3880492
PMID: 24113838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. J Cancer Res Clin Oncol. 2013 Dec;139(12):2089-96. doi: 
10.1007/s00432-013-1531-0. Epub 2013 Oct 10.

A survey of patterns of practice on palliative radiation therapy for bone 
metastasis in Korea.

Chung Y(1), Koom WS, Ahn YC, Park HC, Kim HJ, Yoon SM, Shin S, Lee YJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Yonsei Institute for Cancer Research, 
Yonsei University College of Medicine, 50 Yonsei-ro, Seodaemun-gu, Seoul, 
120-752, South Korea.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to understand the practice patterns of 
palliative radiation therapy for bone metastasis in Korea among Korean radiation 
oncologists by survey and to determine the decision factors affecting the 
prescription of radiation therapy fractionation schedules.
METHODS: An Internet-based survey was performed from October 5 to October 23, 
2009, among 177 active full members of the Korean Society for Radiation and 
Oncology (KOSRO). The survey questionnaire included general information about 
the respondent, three types of clinical scenario, depending on the life 
expectancy of the patients, and the decision factors that affected the 
prescription of a radiation therapy schedule.
RESULTS: The most prescribed schedule was 30 Gy in 10 fractions regardless of 
the life expectancy of the patient. Also, it was found that a single fraction 
was seldom prescribed routinely in Korea. An increasing number prescribed fewer 
than 10 fractions as the life expectancy shortened; however, the prescription 
rate of a single fraction was still low. The general performance (and/or 
accompanying diseases) of patients and the life expectancy were the most 
considered factors in deciding the prescription of radiation therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the abundant evidence supporting the equivalence of single- 
and multi-fraction radiation therapy, still, most Korean radiation oncologists 
continue to prescribe multi-fraction schedules depending on the general 
performance and life expectancy of the patients. Thus, we confirmed that there 
was a gap between evidence and practice, and treatment prescriptions can be 
strongly affected by decision factors other than published literature results.

DOI: 10.1007/s00432-013-1531-0
PMID: 24114286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Biogerontology. 2013 Dec;14(6):687-91. doi: 10.1007/s10522-013-9472-1. Epub
2013  Oct 11.

"Pull and push back" concepts of longevity and life span extension.

Muradian K(1).

Author information:
(1)State Institute of Gerontology of National Academy of Medical Sciences of 
Ukraine, 67, Vyshgorodskaya Str., Kiev, 04114, Ukraine, kkm@geront.kiev.ua.

The negative relation between metabolism and life span is a fundamental 
gerontological discovery well documented in a variety of ontogenetic and 
phylogenetic models. But how the long-lived species and populations sustain 
lower metabolic rate and, in more general terms, what is the efficient way to 
decline the metabolism? The suggested 'pull and push back' hypothesis assumes 
that decreased Po2 (hypoxia) and/or increased [Formula: see text] (hypercapnia) 
may create preconditions for the declined metabolic and aging rates. However, 
wider implementation of such ideas is compromised because of little advances in 
modification of the metabolic rate. Artificial atmosphere with controlled 
[Formula: see text] and [Formula: see text] could be a promising approach 
because of the minimal external invasions and involvement of the backward and 
forward loops ensuring physiological self-regulation of the metabolic 
perturbations. General considerations and existing data indicate that 
manipulations of [Formula: see text] may be more efficient in life span 
extension than [Formula: see text]. Thus, maximum life span of mammals 
positively correlates with the blood [Formula: see text] and HCO3 (-) but not 
with [Formula: see text]. Yet, proportional decease of the body [Formula: see 
text] and increase of [Formula: see text] seems the most optimal regime ensuring 
lower losses of the energy equivalents. Furthermore, especially rewarding 
results could be expected when such changes are modeled without major external 
invasions using the animals' inner capacity to consume O2 and generate CO2, as 
it is typical for the extreme longevity.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-013-9472-1
PMID: 24114506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Dec;31(12):1121-9. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0094-x.

Vemurafenib for the treatment of locally advanced or metastatic BRAF V600 
mutation-positive malignant melanoma: a NICE single technology appraisal.

Beale S(1), Dickson R, Bagust A, Blundell M, Dundar Y, Boland A, Marshall E, 
Plummer R, Proudlove C.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group, University of Liverpool, Whelan 
Building, Brownlow Hill, Liverpool, L69 3GB, UK, s.beale@liv.ac.uk.

Vemurafenib is an oral BRAF inhibitor licenced for the treatment of locally 
advanced or metastatic BRAF V600-mutation positive malignant melanoma. The 
manufacturer of vemurafenib, Roche Products Limited, was invited by the National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) to submit evidence of the drug's 
clinical- and cost-effectiveness for its licenced indication, to inform the 
Institute's Single Technology Appraisal (STA) process. The Liverpool Reviews and 
Implementation Group (LRiG) at the University of Liverpool was commissioned to 
act as the Evidence Review Group (ERG) for this appraisal. This article 
summarises the ERG's review of the evidence submitted by the manufacturer and 
also includes a summary of the NICE Appraisal Committee (AC) decision. The ERG 
reviewed the clinical- and cost-effectiveness evidence in accordance with the 
decision problem defined by NICE. The ERG's analysis of the submitted economic 
model assessed the appropriateness of the approach taken by the manufacturer in 
modelling the decision problem. It also included an assessment of the 
reliability of model implementation and the extent of conformity to published 
standards and prevailing norms of practice within the health economics modelling 
community. Particular attention was paid to issues likely to impact 
substantially on the base-case cost-effectiveness results. The clinical evidence 
was derived from BRIM 3 (BRAF Inhibitor in Melanoma 3), a well-designed, 
multi-centre, multi-national, phase III, randomised controlled trial (RCT). 
Clinical outcome results from the October 2011 data cut showed that median 
overall survival for patients treated with vemurafenib was 13.2 months compared 
with 9.6 months for those treated with dacarbazine. The ERG's main concern with 
the trial was the potential for confounding because of the early introduction of 
the crossover from the comparator drug to vemurafenib or another BRAF inhibitor. 
The submitted incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was considered above 
the NICE threshold, even when end-of-life criteria were taken into account. The 
ERG questioned the submitted economic model on a number of grounds, particularly 
the approach used to project trial results. After the ERG had made appropriate 
corrections to the model and employed an alternative form of projective 
modelling, the ICER per quality-adjusted life year more than doubled. Additional 
evidence was submitted by the manufacturer for consideration at a second AC 
meeting and at their third meeting the AC concluded that vemurafenib could be 
recommended as first-line maintenance treatment for patients with locally 
advanced or metastatic BRAF V600 mutation-positive malignant melanoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0094-x
PMID: 24114739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Clin Cardiol. 2013 Oct;36(10):565-9. doi: 10.1002/clc.22182. Epub 2013 Oct
1.

Impact of frailty and functional status on outcomes in elderly patients with 
ST-segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary angioplasty: 
rationale and design of the IFFANIAM study.

Ariza-Solé A(1), Formiga F, Vidán MT, Bueno H, Curós A, Aboal J, Llibre C, Rueda 
F, Bernal E, Cequier A.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Internal Medicine Department, Hospital Universitari de 
Bellvitge, L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain.

The IFFANIAM study (Impact of frailty and functional status in elderly patients 
with ST segment elevation myocardial infarction undergoing primary angioplasty) 
is an observational multicenter registry to assess the impact of frailty and 
functional status on outcomes of elderly patients with ST-segment elevation 
myocardial infarction (STEMI) undergoing primary angioplasty. STEMI patients age 
75 years or older undergoing primary angioplasty will be extensively studied 
during admission in 4 tertiary care Hospitals in Spain, assessing their baseline 
functional status (Barthel index, Lawton-Brody index), frailty (Fried criteria, 
FRAIL scale [fatigue, resistance, ambulation, illnesses, and loss of weight]), 
comorbidities (Charlson index), nutritional status (Mini Nutritional 
Assessment-Short Form), and quality of life (Seattle Angina Questionnaire). 
Participants will be managed according current recommendations. The primary 
outcome will be the description of 1-year mortality, its causes, and associated 
factors. Secondary outcomes will be functional capacity and quality of life. 
