Results will help to better understand the impact of frailty and functional 
ability on outcomes in elderly STEMI patients undergoing primary angioplasty, 
thus potentially contributing to improving their clinical management. Higher 
life expectancy has resulted in a large segment of elderly population and an 
increase in myocardial infarction in these patients. This calls attention to 
healthcare systems to focus on promoting methods to improve the clinical 
management of this population.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/clc.22182
PMCID: PMC6649451
PMID: 24114768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Psychooncology. 2014 Mar;23(3):251-8. doi: 10.1002/pon.3411. Epub 2013 Sep
23.

Cost-utility analysis of individual psychosocial support interventions for 
breast cancer patients in a randomized controlled study.

Arving C(1), Brandberg Y, Feldman I, Johansson B, Glimelius B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Section of Caring Sciences, 
Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: The aim was to explore the cost-utility in providing complementary 
individual psychosocial support to breast cancer patients compared with standard 
care (SC).
METHODS: Patients just starting adjuvant therapy (n = 168) at Uppsala University 
Hospital, Sweden, were consecutively included and randomized into three groups: 
psychosocial support from a specially trained nurse (INS), from a psychologist 
(IPS), or SC. Psychological effects and healthcare utilization were monitored 
during a 2-year period. The hospital billing system provided cost estimates. 
Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated using health-related quality 
of life data from the European Organization for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
Quality of Life Core Questionnaire (EORTC QLQ C-30) translated into the Euro 
Quality of Life- 5-Dimensional classification. On the basis of the medical cost 
offset, a cost-utility analysis was performed.
RESULTS: Health care utilization was mainly related to the breast cancer 
diagnosis and treatment. The intervention costs amounted to about €500 or 3% of 
the total costs. Total health care costs, including interventions cost, were 
lower in the INS (€18,670) and IPS (€20,419) groups than in the SC group 
(€25,800). The number of QALYs were also higher in the INS (1.52 QALY) and IPS 
(1.59 QALY) groups, compared with the SC group (1.43 QALY).
CONCLUSIONS: The cost-utility analysis revealed that, during adjuvant treatment 
for breast cancer, the individual psychosocial support interventions provided 
here was cost effective because the health care costs were lower and QALYs were 
higher compared to SC alone.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.3411
PMID: 24115469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 8;8(10):e75314. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075314. 
eCollection 2013.

Divergent paths for adult mortality in Russia and Central Asia: evidence from 
Kyrgyzstan.

Guillot M(1), Gavrilova N, Torgasheva L, Denisenko M.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of 
America.

Adult mortality has been lower in Kyrgyzstan vs. Russia among males since at 
least 1981 and among females since 1999. Also, Kyrgyzstan's mortality 
fluctuations have had smaller amplitude. This has occurred in spite of worse 
macro-economic outcomes in Kyrgyzstan. To understand these surprising patterns, 
we analyzed cause-specific mortality in Kyrgyzstan vs. Russia for the period 
1981-2010, using unpublished official data. We find that, as in Russia, 
fluctuations in Kyrgyzstan have been primarily due to changes in external causes 
and circulatory causes, and alcohol appears to play an important role. However, 
in contrast with Russia, mortality from these causes in Kyrgyzstan has been 
lower and has increased by a smaller amount. As a result, the mortality gap 
between the two countries is overwhelmingly attributable to external and 
cardio-vascular causes, and more generally, to causes that have been shown to be 
strongly related to alcohol consumption. These cause-specific results, together 
with the existence of large ethnic differentials in mortality in Kyrgyzstan, 
highlight the importance of cultural and religious differences, and their impact 
on patterns of alcohol consumption, in explaining the mortality gap between the 
two countries. These findings show that explanatory frameworks relying solely on 
macro-economic factors are not sufficient for understanding differences in 
mortality levels and trends among former Soviet republics.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075314
PMCID: PMC3792976
PMID: 24116034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


254. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 7;8(10):e76710. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0076710. 
eCollection 2013.

Effect of change in spindle structure on proliferation inhibition of 
osteosarcoma cells and osteoblast under simulated microgravity during incubation 
in rotating bioreactor.

Wei L(1), Diao Y, Qi J, Khokhlov A, Feng H, Yan X, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science and Technology, Harbin Institute of Technology, 
Harbin, China.

In order to study the effect of microgravity on the proliferation of mammalian 
osteosarcoma cells and osteoblasts, the changes in cell proliferation, spindle 
structure, expression of MAD2 or BUB1, and effect of MAD2 or BUB1 on the 
inhibition of cell proliferation is investigated by keeping mammalian 
osteosarcoma cells and osteoblasts under simulated microgravity in a rotating 
wall vessel (2D-RWVS) bioreactor. Experimental results indicate that the effect 
of microgravity on proliferation inhibition, incidence of multipolar spindles, 
and expression of MAD2 or BUB1 increases with the extension of treatment time. 
And multipolar cells enter mitosis after MAD2 or BUB1 is knocked down, which 
leads to the decrease in DNA content, and decrease the accumulation of cells 
within multipolar spindles. It can therefore be concluded that simulated 
microgravity can alter the structure of spindle microtubules, and stimulate the 
formation of multipolar spindles together with multicentrosomes, which causes 
the overexpression of SAC proteins to block the abnormal cells in metaphase, 
thereby inhibiting cell proliferation. By clarifying the relationship between 
cell proliferation inhibition, spindle structure and SAC changes under simulated 
microgravity, the molecular mechanism and morphology basis of proliferation 
inhibition induced by microgravity is revealed, which will give experiment and 
theoretical evidence for the mechanism of space bone loss and some other space 
medicine problems.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0076710
PMCID: PMC3792057
PMID: 24116140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


255. AIDS Care. 2014;26(5):523-31. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2013.845288. Epub 2013
Oct  14.

Age, stress, and isolation in older adults living with HIV.

Webel AR(1), Longenecker CT, Gripshover B, Hanson JE, Schmotzer BJ, Salata RA.

Author information:
(1)a Frances Payne Bolton School of Nursing , Case Western Reserve University , 
Cleveland , OH , USA.

People living with HIV (PLWH) have increasingly longer life spans. This age 
group faces different challenges than younger PLWH, which may include increased 
stress and social isolation. The purpose of this study was to determine whether 
the age and sex of PLWH are associated with measures of physiologic stress, 
perceived stress, and social isolation. In this cross-sectional study, we 
enrolled 102 PLWH equally into four groups divided by age (younger or older than 
50 years) and gender. Participants completed well-validated survey measurements 
of stress and isolation, and their heart rate variability over 60 minutes was 
measured by Holter monitor. The mean (SD) Perceived Stress Scale score was 17.4 
(6.94), mean Visual Analog Stress Scale score was 3.51 (2.79), and mean 
Hawthorne Friendship Scale score, a measure of social isolation, was 17.03 
(4.84). Mean heart rate variability expressed as the SD of successive N-N 
intervals was 65.47 (31.16) msec. In multivariable regression models that 
controlled for selected demographic variables, there was no relationship between 
the Perceived Stress Scale and age (coefficient = -0.09, p =-0.23) or female 
gender (coefficient = -0.12, p = 0.93); however, there was a modest relationship 
between female gender and stress using the Visual Analog Stress Scale 
(coefficient = 1.24, p = 0.05). Perceived Stress was negatively associated with 
the Hawthorne Friendship score (coefficient = -0.34, p = 0.05). Hawthorne 
Friendship score was positively associated with younger age (coefficient = 0.11, 
p = 0.02). Age was the only independent predictor of physiologic stress as 
measured by heart rate variability (coefficient = -1.3, p < 0.01). Our findings 
suggest that younger PLWH may experience more social isolation; however, 
age-related changes in heart rate variability do not appear to be related to 
perceived stress or social isolation. Future longitudinal research is required 
to more thoroughly understand this relationship and its impact on the health of 
PLWH.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2013.845288
PMCID: PMC3945181
PMID: 24116852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2014 May;55(5):448-57. doi: 10.1111/jcpp.12142.
Epub  2013 Oct 4.

Serotonin transporter-linked polymorphic region (5-HTTLPR) genotype and 
stressful life events interact to predict preschool-onset depression: a 
replication and developmental extension.

Bogdan R(1), Agrawal A, Gaffrey MS, Tillman R, Luby JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, MO, 
USA; Department of Psychiatry, Washington University in St. Louis, St. Louis, 
MO, USA.

Comment in
    J Child Psychol Psychiatry. 2014 May;55(5):458-9.

BACKGROUND: Scientific enthusiasm about gene × environment interactions, spurred 
by the 5-HTTLPR (serotonin transporter-linked polymorphic region) × SLEs 
(stressful life events) interaction predicting depression, have recently been 
tempered by sober realizations of small effects and meta-analyses reaching 
opposing conclusions. These mixed findings highlight the need for further 
research. Converging evidence suggests that the effects of 5-HTTLPR genotype may 
be neurodevelopmental in origin, but we are not aware of empirical studies that 
have investigated whether the 5-HTTLPR genotype × SLE interaction predicts 
preschool-onset depression (PO-MDD), the earliest validated form of depression.
METHODS: Children (n = 234) aged 3-5 were recruited for a longitudinal study 
designed to examine PO-MDD. In a comprehensive baseline assessment, the child's 
primary caregivers completed questionnaires and were interviewed about their 
child's behaviors, psychiatric symptoms, and exposure to SLEs.
RESULTS: A 5-HTTLPR × SLEs interaction emerged, such that children homozygous 
for the short allele were more susceptible to depression in the context of 
elevated SLE than long allele carriers. In contrast, at low SLE exposure, short 
allele homozygotes had fewer depressive symptoms. The data were best fit by a 
plasticity model with a substantial reduction in fit by diathesis-stress models.
CONCLUSIONS: Extending studies in adult and adolescent populations, these data 
suggest that 5-HTTLPR genotype may provide plasticity to environmental 
influence, for better or worse. Specifically, children homozygous for the short 
allele were more susceptible to the depressogenic effects of SLEs but 
benefitted, in the form of reduced depressive symptoms, in the context of 
relatively benign environmental conditions (i.e. relatively low SLE exposure). 
These data highlight the importance of examining gene × environment interactions 
across development, environment, and outcome but should be interpreted 
cautiously given the small sample size.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Child Psychology and Psychiatry © 2013 
Association for Child and Adolescent Mental Health.

DOI: 10.1111/jcpp.12142
PMCID: PMC3976464
PMID: 24117502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: No conflict of 
interests declared.


257. Transpl Int. 2013 Nov;26(11):1063-9. doi: 10.1111/tri.12184. Epub 2013 Sep
30.

Can donors with high donor risk indices be used cost-effectively in liver 
transplantation in US Transplant Centers?

Kensinger CD(1), Dageforde LA, Moore DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Hepatobiliary Surgery and Liver 
Transplantation, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA; 
Vanderbilt Center for Surgical Quality and Outcomes Research, Vanderbilt 
University Medical Center, Nashville, TN, USA.

Comment in
    Transpl Int. 2013 Nov;26(11):1061-2.

In an effort to quantify the impact of donor risk factors on recipient outcomes, 
the donor risk index (DRI) was developed. A high DRI correlates with poorer 
post-transplant survival. In this study, high-DRI donors are classified as those 
having DRIs >2.0, while low-DRI donors have DRIs <2.0. The aim of this study was 
to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of high-DRI donor use in US Transplant 
Centers. A Markov-based decision analytic model was created to simulate outcomes 
for an allocation scheme using only low-DRI donors versus a scheme using both 
low- and high-DRI donors. Baseline values and ranges were determined from 
published data and Medicare cost data. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to 
test model strength and parameter variability. An allocation scheme in which 
only low-DRI donors were used generated 5.2 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
at a cost of $83 000/QALY. An allocation scheme using both low- and high-DRI 
donors generated 5.9 QALYs at a cost of $66 000/QALY. Sensitivity analyses 
supported the use of an allocation scheme using both low- and high-DRI donors. 
The overall contribution of high-DRI grafts to the donor pool and the resultant 
reduction in wait-list mortality make them cost-effective.

© 2013 Steunstichting ESOT. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tri.12184
PMID: 24118157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Mol Microbiol. 2013 Dec;90(5):1054-1073. doi: 10.1111/mmi.12416. Epub 2013
Oct  21.

GfsA encodes a novel galactofuranosyltransferase involved in biosynthesis of 
galactofuranose antigen of O-glycan in Aspergillus nidulans and Aspergillus 
fumigatus.

Komachi Y(#)(1), Hatakeyama S(#)(1), Motomatsu H(#)(1), Futagami T(2), Kizjakina 
K(3), Sobrado P(3), Ekino K(1), Takegawa K(2), Goto M(2), Nomura Y(1), Oka T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Microbial Technology, Faculty of Biotechnology and Life 
Science, Sojo University, Kumamoto, Japan.
(2)Department of Bioscience and Biotechnology, Faculty of Agriculture, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, Virginia Tech Blacksburg, VA, United States.
(#)Contributed equally

The cells walls of filamentous fungi in the genus Aspergillus have 
galactofuranose (Galf)-containing polysaccharides and glycoconjugates, including 
O-glycans, N-glycans, fungal-type galactomannan and 
glycosylinositolphosphoceramide, which are important for cell wall integrity. 
Here, we attempted to identify galactofuranosyltransferases that couple Galf 
monomers onto other wall components in Aspergillus nidulans. Using 
reverse-genetic and biochemical approaches, we identified that the AN8677 gene 
encoded a galactofuranosyltransferase, which we called GfsA, involved in Galf 
antigen biosynthesis. Disruption of gfsA reduced binding of β-Galf-specific 
antibody EB-A2 to O-glycosylated WscA protein and galactomannoproteins. The 
results of an in-vitro Galf antigen synthase assay revealed that GfsA has β1,5- 
or β1,6-galactofuranosyltransferase activity for O-glycans in glycoproteins, 
uses UDP-d-Galf as a sugar donor, and requires a divalent manganese cation for 
activity. GfsA was found to be localized at the Golgi apparatus based on 
cellular fractionation experiments. ΔgfsA cells exhibited an abnormal morphology 
characterized by poor hyphal extension, hyphal curvature and limited formation 
of conidia. Several gfsA orthologues were identified in members of the 
Pezizomycotina subphylum of Ascomycota, including the human pathogen Aspergillus 
fumigatus. To our knowledge, this is the first characterization of a fungal 
β-galactofuranosyltransferase, which was shown to be involved in Galf antigen 
biosynthesis of O-glycans in the Golgi.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/mmi.12416
PMCID: PMC3907285
PMID: 24118544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Aging Cell. 2014 Apr;13(2):216-25. doi: 10.1111/acel.12160. Epub 2013 Nov
19.

Meta-analysis on blood transcriptomic studies identifies consistently 
coexpressed protein-protein interaction modules as robust markers of human 
aging.

van den Akker EB(1), Passtoors WM, Jansen R, van Zwet EW, Goeman JJ, Hulsman M, 
Emilsson V, Perola M, Willemsen G, Penninx BW, Heijmans BT, Maier AB, Boomsma 
DI, Kok JN, Slagboom PE, Reinders MJ, Beekman M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Epidemiology, Leiden University Medical Center, PO 
Box 9600, 2300 RC, Leiden, The Netherlands; The Delft Bioinformatics Lab, Delft 
University of Technology, PO Box 5031, 2600 GA, Delft, The Netherlands.

The bodily decline that occurs with advancing age strongly impacts on the 
prospects for future health and life expectancy. Despite the profound role of 
age in disease etiology, knowledge about the molecular mechanisms driving the 
process of aging in humans is limited. Here, we used an integrative 
network-based approach for combining multiple large-scale expression studies in 
blood (2539 individuals) with protein-protein Interaction (PPI) data for the 
detection of consistently coexpressed PPI modules that may reflect key processes 
that change throughout the course of normative aging. Module detection followed 
by a meta-analysis on chronological age identified fifteen consistently 
coexpressed PPI modules associated with chronological age, including a highly 
significant module (P = 3.5 × 10(-38)) enriched for 'T-cell activation' marking 
age-associated shifts in lymphocyte blood cell counts (R(2) = 0.603; P = 1.9 × 
10(-10)). Adjusting the analysis in the compendium for the 'T-cell activation' 
module showed five consistently coexpressed PPI modules that robustly associated 
with chronological age and included modules enriched for 'Translational 
elongation', 'Cytolysis' and 'DNA metabolic process'. In an independent study of 
3535 individuals, four of five modules consistently associated with 
chronological age, underpinning the robustness of the approach. We found three 
of five modules to be significantly enriched with aging-related genes, as 
defined by the GenAge database, and association with prospective survival at 
high ages for one of the modules including ASF1A. The hereby-detected 
age-associated and consistently coexpressed PPI modules therefore may provide a 
molecular basis for future research into mechanisms underlying human aging.

© 2013 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12160
PMCID: PMC4331790
PMID: 24119000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Mar Pollut Bull. 2014 Jun 30;83(2):458-66. doi:
10.1016/j.marpolbul.2013.09.038.  Epub 2013 Oct 9.

Towards a predictive model to assess the natural position of the Posidonia 
oceanica seagrass meadows upper limit.

Vacchi M(1), Montefalcone M(2), Schiaffino CF(3), Parravicini V(4), Bianchi 
CN(2), Morri C(2), Ferrari M(2).

Author information:
(1)Aix-Marseille Université, CEREGE CNRS-IRD UMR 34, Aix en Provence, France; 
SEAMap Ltd., Environmental Consulting, Borghetto Santo Spirito, Italy. 
Electronic address: vacchi@cerege.fr.
(2)Department of Earth, Environmental and Life Sciences, University of Genoa, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Earth, Environmental and Life Sciences, University of Genoa, 
Italy; SEAMap Ltd., Environmental Consulting, Borghetto Santo Spirito, Italy.
(4)UR 227 - "CoReUs2" IRD - Institut de Recherche pour le Développement, 
Laboratoire Arago, Banyuls-sur-Mer, France; SEAMap Ltd., Environmental 
Consulting, Borghetto Santo Spirito, Italy.

The upper portion of the meadows of the protected Mediterranean seagrass 
Posidonia oceanica occurs in the region of the seafloor mostly affected by 
surf-related effects. Evaluation of its status is part of monitoring programs, 
but proper conclusions are difficult to draw due to the lack of definite 
reference conditions. Comparing the position of the meadow upper limit with the 
beach morphodynamics (i.e. the distinctive type of beach produced by topography 
and wave climate) provided evidence that the natural landwards extension of 
meadows can be predicted. An innovative model was therefore developed in order 
to locate the region of the seafloor where the meadow upper limit should lie in 
natural conditions (i.e. those governed only by hydrodynamics, in absence of 
significant anthropogenic impact). This predictive model was validated in 
additional sites, which showed perfect agreement between predictions and 
observations. This makes the model a valuable tool for coastal management.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.marpolbul.2013.09.038
PMID: 24119311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2013 Dec;46(6):657-66. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2013.09.013. Epub 2013 Sep 19.

On-label use of commercially-available abdominal endografts for para-anastomotic 
aneurysms and pseudoaneurysms after infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm open 
repair.

Tshomba Y(1), Mascia D, Kahlberg A, Marone EM, Melissano G, Chiesa R.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery, Vita-Salute University, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, 
Milan, Italy.

OBJECTIVES: To analyze feasibility and outcomes of endovascular aortic repair 
(EVAR) with a strictly on-label use of abdominal aortic endografts (OnL-EVAR) to 
treat para-anastomotic aneurysms (PAAs) and pseudoaneurysms (PSAs) after 
infrarenal abdominal aortic aneurysm open repair (OR).
METHODS: The data of all consecutive patients treated between 1999 and 2012 for 
non-infected abdominal PAAs and PSAs at our center were prospectively collected. 
All cases fit for EVAR based on the instructions for use of a series of 
abdominal aortic endografts commercially available during the study period were 
scheduled for OnL-EVAR regardless of patients' surgical risk. Any patients unfit 
for OnL-EVAR underwent OR or other complex endovascular techniques.
RESULTS: One hundred and forty-three patients were collected; 78 underwent OR 
and 65 endovascular repair with different strategies. Coil embolization, hybrid, 
and chimney/periscope grafts techniques were limited to seven patients unfit 
both for OR and OnL-EVAR. Inclusion criteria for OnL-EVAR were reached in 58 
patients for an overall OnL-EVAR feasibility of approximately 40% (21% for PAAs 
and 55% for PSAs). In particular, OnL-EVAR feasibility was 19% in case of 
involvement of proximal aortic anastomosis, 71% for distal aortic anastomosis, 
and 80% for iliac arteries. Overall, 25 aortouniiliac and 11 bifurcated implants 
were performed, single proximal aortic cuffs were used in 10 patients, and iliac 
extension in 12. Primary technical success was 98% without perioperative 
mortality. At a median follow-up of 67 months (range: 1-144 months), cumulative 
aneurysm-related mortality was 7%, endograft migration 7%, and reintervention 
was 17%. Life-table analysis showed actuarial survival and freedom from 
aneurysm-related death at 1, 3, and 5 years of 100%, 98%, and 95%, and of 100%, 
98%, and 95%, respectively. Freedom from aortic reintervention or open 
conversion at 1, 3, and 5 years was 94%, 90%, and 85%.
CONCLUSIONS: Feasibility of OnL-EVAR was limited for PAAs and PSAs, with a rate 
that was lower than 20% in case of involvement of proximal aortic anastomosis. 
Aortouniiliac configuration was the most commonly feasible implant and, despite 
strict on-label use of abdominal devices, the rate of late complications and 
reinterventions was high.

Copyright © 2013 European Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2013.09.013
PMID: 24119469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Injury. 2014 Feb;45(2):362-8. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2013.09.028. Epub 2013
Sep  19.

Interprosthetic femoral fractures-A challenge of treatment. A systematic review 
of the literature.

Solarino G(1), Vicenti G(2), Moretti L(1), Abate A(1), Spinarelli A(1), Moretti 
B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience and Organs of Sense, Orthopedics Section, Faculty 
of Medicine and Surgery, University of Bari, Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Neuroscience and Organs of Sense, Orthopedics Section, Faculty 
of Medicine and Surgery, University of Bari, Bari, Italy. Electronic address: 
dott.gvicenti@alice.it.

The success of prosthetic surgery has led to an increase in the percentage of 
the population having more than one prosthetic implant. This, combined with an 
increase in the average life expectancy and functional requirements for the 
elderly, has led to a higher incidence of periprosthetic and interprosthetic 
fractures. More precisely, the femoral shaft is compressed between two 
ipsilateral implants with most of these fractures being located on the 
supracondylar femoral shaft. Their treatment is not only technically demanding 
and challenging, but can also be associated with serious complications. 
Treatment must be determined and assessed according to the type of fracture, the 
stability of the prosthesis, the bone quality and the general condition of the 
patient. There is little information in the literature about this type of 
injury: there are several published case reports detailing unconventional 
solutions and the case studies presented are limited and not significant. This 
review aims to provide an updated and comprehensive list of diagnostic and 
therapeutic protocols accepted today, while recognising that these protocols are 
being continuously updated according to experience gained.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2013.09.028
PMID: 24119494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Nephrol Ther. 2013 Sep;9 Suppl 1:S127-37. doi:
10.1016/S1769-7255(13)70042-7.

[Survival and mortality in ESRD patients].

[Article in French]

Chantrel F(1), de Cornelissen F, Deloumeaux J, Lange C, Lassalle M; registre 
REIN.

Author information:
(1)CH Emile Muller, Mulhouse, France.

This chapter provides a set of indicators on survival, life expectancy and 
causes of death of patients in chronic renal failure treated by dialysis or 
transplantation beginning a first replacement therapy between 2002 and 2011. Age 
strongly influences survival on dialysis. Thus, one year survival of patients 
under age 65 is over 90%. After 5 years, among patients over 85 years, it is 
more than 15%. The presence of diabetes or one or more cardiovascular 
comorbidities also significantly worse patient survival. In terms of trend, we 
do not find significant improvement in the 2-year survival between patients in 
the cohort 2006-2007 and the 2008-2009 cohort. Cardiovascular diseases account 
for 27% of causes of death to infectious diseases (12%) and cancer (10%). Life 
expectancy of patients is highly dependent on their treatment. Thus, a 
transplant patient aged 30 has a life expectancy of 41 years versus 23 years for 
a dialysis patient. Transplant patients have a mortality rate much lower than 
those of dialysis patients. Thus, between 60 and 69 years, for 1000 patients in 
dialysis in 2011, 127 died within the year. For 1000 patients of the same age, 
who have a functioning kidney transplant, 24 died within the year.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1769-7255(13)70042-7
PMID: 24119578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Nephrol Ther. 2013 Sep;9 Suppl 1:S3-6. doi: 10.1016/S1769-7255(13)70036-1.

[REIN Report 2011--summary].

[Article in French]

Couchoud C(1), Lassalle M, Jacquelinet C.

Author information:
(1)Coordination nationale REIN, Agence de la biomédecine, Saint Denis La Plaine.

INCIDENT PATIENTS: In 2011, in France, we estimate that 9 400 patients started a 
treatment by dialysis (incidence of dialysis: 144 per million inhabitants) and 
335 patients with a pre-emptive graft without previous dialysis (incidence of 
pre-emptive graft: 5 per million inhabitants). As in 2010, incidence rate seems 
to stabilize. Elders provide the majority of new patients (median age at RRT 
start: 71 years old). New patients present a high rate of disabilities 
especially diabetes (41% of the new patients) and cardiovascular disabilities 
(>50% of the new patients) that increase with age. Considering treatment and 
follow-up, the first treatment remains center's hemodialysis and we do not 
notice any progression of self-dialysis. RRT started in emergency in 33% of the 
patients. This finding contrasts with the fact that 56% of patients started 
hemodialysis on a catheter. This, together with the major inter-region 
variability, suggests that different strategies of management exist. Finally, 
the hemoglobin level at RRT start seems to be an interesting indicator of good 
management and follow-up since 13% of patients presenting an underprovided 
follow-up have a hemoglobin level under 10g/dl, whereas only 2.5% of patients 
with an appropriate follow-up presented such a condition.
PREVALENT PATIENTS: On December 31, 2011, in France, we estimate that 70.700 
patients were receiving a renal replacement therapy, 39.600 (56%) on dialysis 
and 31.100 (44%) living with a functional renal transplant. The overall crude 
prevalence was 1091 per million inhabitants. It was 1.6 higher in males. 
Prevalence was subject to regional variations with 5 regions (3 overseas) above 
the national rate. Renal transplant share varied from 33% in Nord-Pas de Calais 
to 53% in Pays de Loire, and from 16 to 25% in overseas regions. The study of 
temporal variations for 18 regions contributing to the registry since 2007 
demonstrated a +4% increase in standardized prevalence of ESRD patients with a 
functional transplant vs. +2% increase for dialysis, resulting in a decreasing 
gap between dialysis and transplantation prevalence, due to an increase number 
of renal transplant and a longer survival of transplanted patients. The main 
dialysis technique was hemodialysis (93.3% of patients). Even if an important 
inter-region variability remains considering the choices of treatment, more than 
50% of the patients are undergoing hemodialysis in a hospital-based incenter 
unit, and we noticed an increase in hemodialysis in a medical satellite unit 
with time whereas the rate of self-care hemodialysis decreases. The rate of 
peritoneal dialysis remains stable. When comparing guidelines to real-life 
treatments, 77.5% of patients receive adequate dose of treatment (12 H/week, KT/ 
V>1.2), the rate of patients with a hemoglobin blood-level lower than 10g/dl and 
without erythropoietin treatment is 1.3%, which confirmed a good management of 
anemia. On the contrary, 34% of patients have a BMI lower than 23kg/m(2) and 
only 23% have an albumin blood-level over 40g/l, which underlines that 
nutritional management of ESRD patients can be improved.
MORTALITY: Age strongly influences survival on dialysis. Thus, one year survival 
of patients under age 65 is over 90%. After 5 years, among patients over 85 
years, it is more than 15%. The presence of diabetes or one or more 
cardiovascular comorbidities also significantly worse patient survival. In terms 
of trend, we do not find significant improvement in the 2-year survival between 
patients in the cohort 2006-2007 and the 2008-2009 cohort. Cardiovascular 
diseases account for 27% of causes of death to infectious diseases (12%) and 
cancer (10%). Life expectancy of patients is highly dependent on their 
treatment. Thus, a transplant patient aged 30 has a life expectancy of 41 years 
versus 23 years for a dialysis patient.
ESRD PEDIATRIC PATIENTS: In 2011, the incidence and the prevalence of ESRD among 
patients under 20 years old remained stable at 8 and 53 per million inhabitants 
respectively. The first causes of ESDR remain uropathies and hypodysplasia 
followed by glomerulonephritis and genetic diseases. Considering the initial 
treatment, we found a high rate of hemodialysis and a low rate of peritoneal 
dialysis that is mainly used in younger children. In 2011, 31 preemptive 
transplantations were performed accounting for 27.7% of new patients. Finally, 
survival analysis confirm that younger children (under 4 years old) have the 
highest risk of death (88% survival rate at 2 years vs. 98% in patients over 4 
years old) and that the treatment of choice remains the renal transplantation 
since it increases the expected remaining lifetime of 20 to 40 years depending 
on the considered age.
TRANSPLANTATION: Access to the waiting list is evaluated on a cohort of 51,846 
new patients who started dialysis between 2002 and 2011 in 25 regions. The 
probability of first wait-listing was of 3.7% at the start of dialysis 
(pre-emptive registrations), 15% at 12, 22% at 36 and 24% to 60 months. Patient 
older than 60 had a very poor access to the waiting list, whatever their 
diabetes status was. Among 13,653 patients less than 60 years old, the 
probability of being registered was 11% at the start of dialysis, 43% to 12 
months, 62% to 36 months and 66% to 60 months (median dialysis duration: 16 
months). Seventeen regions with up to 5 years follow-up show an increase of 8 to 
15% in pre-emptive registrations between 2007 and 2001, without change at 1 
year. Access to kidney transplant is evaluated on a cohort of 53,301 new 
patients who started a renal replacement therapy (dialysis or pre-emptive renal 
transplant) between 2002 and 2011 in 25 regions. The probability of first kidney 
transplant was of 7% at 12, 17% at 36 and 21% at 60 months. 8,633 patients 
(16,2%) had received a first renal transplant within 14.7 month median time; 
1,455 (2.7%) had received a pre-emptive graft. Among the 14.770 new patients 
less than 60 years old, the probability of being transplanted was of 21% at 12, 
46% at 36 and 58% at 60 months (median dialysis duration: 42 months). When 
pre-emptive graft were excluded, the probability of being transplanted was of 5% 
at 12, 15% to 36 and 19% to 60 months FLOW BETWEEN TREATMENT MODALITIES: Among 
the 36.849 patients on dialysis at 31/10/2010, 79% were already on RRT at 
31/12/2009. Respectively 91%, 85% and 93% of the patients on HD in-center, HD 
self-care unit and peritoneal dialysis were in the same modality of treatment 
the year before. Among the 29.758 patients with a functioning graft at 
31/12/2010, 98% were already on RRT at 31/12/2009, 95% of them with a 
functioning graft.72%, 72% and 74% of the patients with in-center HD, out-center 
HD and self-care unit were in the same modality of treatment at 31/12/2011. But 
37% of the patients on PD at 31/12/2010 were not on PD at 31/12/2011. In 2011, 
new patients represented 89% of the entries in peritoneal dialysis. Renal 
transplantation represented 10% of the outcomes of the HD patients in self-care 
unit or at home.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1769-7255(13)70036-1
PMID: 24119584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2013 Nov;36(9):555-64. doi: 
10.1016/j.gastrohep.2013.08.003. Epub 2013 Oct 9.

Pharmacoeconomic analysis of the treatment of chronic hepatitis C with 
peginterferon alfa-2a or peginterferon alfa-2b plus ribavirin in Spain.

Turnes J(1), Romero-Gómez M, Planas R, Solà R, García-Samaniego J, Diago M, 
Crespo J, Calleja JL, Rubio-Terrés C, Ventayol P.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Aparato Digestivo, Complejo Hospitalario de Pontevedra, 
Pontevedra, Spain. Electronic address: jturnesv@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: An independent meta-analysis of randomized comparative trials of 
peginterferons alfa-2a and alfa-2b, both combined with ribavirin, analyzed the 
probability of achieving a sustained virological response (SVR).
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the long-term cost-effectiveness of treatment of patients 
with chronic hepatitis C with peginterferon alfa-2a (180μg/week) plus ribavirin 
(800-1200mg/day) vs. alfa-2b (1.5μg/kg/week) plus ribavirin (800-1400mg/day), 
from the perspective of the Spanish National Health System.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed with 7 health states to simulate lifetime 
disease progression. SVR was calculated from the meta-analysis data. Transition 
probabilities and health state utilities were obtained from published 
literature. Direct healthcare costs were obtained from the drug catalog, while 
costs of disease-related complications were obtained from published studies and 
healthcare cost database. Costs were expressed in 2010€. The annual discount 
rate applied was 3.5% for both costs and benefits.
RESULTS: SVR rate for treatment with alfa-2a was higher than with alfa-2b; the 
differences were 6.0%, 7.6% and 8.7% for all genotypes, genotypes 1/4 and 
genotypes 2/3, respectively. Each patient would gain 0.469, 0.600 and 0.685 
life-years and 0.155, 0.198 and 0.227 quality-adjusted life-years with alfa-2a 
vs. alfa-2b, for the respective genotypes. The cost saving per patient treated 
with alfa-2a would be €705, €672 and €1900, for all genotypes and for genotypes 
1/4 and 2/3, respectively, alfa-2a being dominant.
CONCLUSIONS: According to the present model, treatment of patients with chronic 
hepatitis C with peginterferon alfa-2a is cost-effective compared with 
peginterferon alfa-2b, both combined with ribavirin.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier España, S.L. and AEEH y AEG. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gastrohep.2013.08.003
PMID: 24119723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Gait Posture. 2014;39(1):513-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2013.08.033. Epub
2013  Sep 8.

The influence of age, muscle strength and speed of information processing on 
recovery responses to external perturbations in gait.

Senden R(1), Savelberg HH, Adam J, Grimm B, Heyligers IC, Meijer K.

Author information:
(1)Atrium Medical Centre, Department of Orthopaedics & Traumatology, Henri 
Dunantstraat 5, P.O. Box 4446, 6401 CX Heerlen, The Netherlands; Maastricht 
University, Department of Human Movement Science, Faculty of Health, Medicine 
and Life Sciences, Universiteitssingel 50, 6229 ER Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
Electronic address: rachel.senden@atriummc.nl.

Dynamic imbalance caused by external perturbations to gait can successfully be 
counteracted by adequate recovery responses. The current study investigated how 
the recovery response is moderated by age, walking speed, muscle strength and 
speed of information processing. The gait pattern of 50 young and 45 elderly 
subjects was repeatedly perturbed at 20% and 80% of the first half of the swing 
phase using the Timed Rapid impact Perturbation (TRiP) set-up. Recovery 
responses were identified using 2D cameras. Muscular factors (dynamometer) and 
speed of information processing parameters (computer-based reaction time task) 
were determined. The stronger, faster reacting and faster walking young subjects 
recovered more often by an elevating strategy than elderly subjects. Twenty 
three per cent of the differences in recovery responses were explained by a 
combination of walking speed (B=-13.85), reaction time (B=-0.82), maximum 
extension strength (B=0.01) and rate of extension moment development (B=0.19). 
The recovery response that subjects employed when gait was perturbed by the TRiP 
set-up was modified by several factors; the individual contribution of walking 
speed, muscle strength and speed of information processing was small. Insight 
into remaining modifying factors is needed to assist and optimise fall 
prevention programmes.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2013.08.033
PMID: 24119777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Spine J. 2015 May 1;15(5):944-50. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2013.06.036. Epub
2013  Oct 9.

Reassessment of scoring systems and prognostic factors for metastatic spinal 
cord compression.

Tabouret E(1), Cauvin C(1), Fuentes S(2), Esterni B(3), Adetchessi T(2), Salem 
N(4), Madroszyk A(1), Gonçalves A(1), Casalonga F(5), Gravis G(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Paoli Calmettes, 232 bd de sainte 
Marguerite, 13009 Marseille, France.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, APHM, Hopital de la Timone, 264 rue Saint Pierre, 
13005 Marseille, France.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Institut Paoli Calmettes, 232 Bd Sainte 
Marguerite, 13009 Marseille, France.
(4)Department of Radiotherapy, Institut Paoli Calmettes, 232 Bd Sainte 
Marguerite, 13009 Marseille, France.
(5)Department of Radiology, Institut Paoli Calmettes, 232 Bd Sainte Marguerite, 
13009 Marseille, France.
(6)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut Paoli Calmettes, 232 bd de sainte 
Marguerite, 13009 Marseille, France. Electronic address: 
gravisg@ipc.unicancer.fr.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: The incidence of metastatic spinal cord compression (MSCC) 
is increasing, paralleling increasing life expectancy of patients. However, 
management of MSCC and relevance of scoring systems remain controversial.
PURPOSE: The aims of our study were to analyze the feasibility and outcomes of 
spinal surgery, to identify prognostic factors for survival, and to assess the 
accuracy of scoring systems in patients with malignancies associated with MSCC.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective analysis of all patients with MSCC operated in our 
institution.
METHODS: Outcomes of surgery, prognostic factors for survival, and relevance of 
Tomita and Tokuhashi scores were investigated.
RESULTS: One hundred forty-eight patients were included: 66% were hyperalgic 
(pain score >6) and Frankel score (FS) was decreased in 49%. Seventy-three 
percent of patients had laminectomy with spinal fixation. After surgery, pain 
decreased in 75% of cases, FS was improved in 31%, and 92% of patients were 
ambulatory. Postoperative complication rate was 16%. Median overall survival 
(OS) was 8.9 months (95% confidence interval, 4.4-13). Only Tokuhashi score was 
relevant, but predictive accuracy of survival was just 51%. In univariate 
analyses, hyperalgia (p=.001), primary tumor site, extrabone metastases 
(p<.001), Karnofsky performance status (KPS) less than 70 (p<.001), poor 
American Society of Anesthesiologist (ASA) score (p<.001) or FS (p=.01), and 
absence of postoperative chemotherapy (p<.001) were associated with shorter OS. 
In multivariate analysis, only extrabone metastases (p=.004), KPS (p=.001), and 
ASA score (p=.007) remained significantly associated with OS.
CONCLUSIONS: Surgery for MSCC is associated with limited morbidity, improved 
autonomy, and pain relief. Usual scores do not seem relevant, whereas ASA score, 
KPS, and extrabone metastases are significantly associated with OS.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2013.06.036
PMID: 24120144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Lancet. 2013 Oct 12;382(9900):1225. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)62080-2.

How to cope with an ageing population.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)62080-2
PMID: 24120186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Ophthalmology. 2014 Jan;121(1):10-16. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.07.056.
Epub  2013 Oct 10.

Cost-effectiveness of femtosecond laser-assisted cataract surgery versus 
phacoemulsification cataract surgery.

Abell RG(1), Vote BJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Tasmanian Eye Institute, Launceston, Tasmania, Australia.
(2)Launceston Eye Institute, Launceston, Tasmania, Australia. Electronic 
address: eye.vote@bigpond.net.au.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2014 Oct;121(10):e53-4.
    Ophthalmology. 2014 Oct;121(10):e54-5.

PURPOSE: To perform a comparative cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) of 
femtosecond laser-assisted cataract surgery (LCS) and conventional 
phacoemulsification cataract surgery (PCS) DESIGN: Retrospective CEA using 
computer-based econometric modeling.
PARTICIPANTS: Hypothetical cohort of patients undergoing cataract surgery in the 
better eye based on a review of the current literature and our direct experience 
using LCS.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness decision tree model was constructed to analyze the 
cost-effectiveness of LCS compared with PCS. Complication rates of cataract 
surgery were obtained from a review of the current literature to complete the 
cohort of patients and outcomes. This data was incorporated with time trade-off 
utility values converted from visual acuity outcomes.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Improvements in best-corrected visual acuity obtained 
from the literature were used to calculate the increase in quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) in a hypothetical cohort between 6 months and 1 year after 
cataract surgery. This was combined with approximate costs in a cost-utility 
analysis model to determine the incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: Based on the simulated complication rates of PCS and LCS and assuming 
resultant visual acuity outcome improvement of 5% in uncomplicated cases of LCS, 
the cost-effectiveness (dollars spent per QALY) gained from LCS was not 
cost-effective at $92 862 Australian Dollars. The total QALY gain for LCS over 
PCS was 0.06 units. Multivariate sensitivity analyses revealed that LCS would 
need to significantly improve visual outcomes and complications rates over PCS, 
along with a reduction in cost to patient, to improve cost effectiveness. 
Modeling a best-case scenario of LCS with excellent visual outcomes (100%), a 
significant reduction in complications (0%) and a significantly reduced cost to 
patient (of $300) resulted in an ICER of $20 000.
CONCLUSIONS: Laser cataract surgery, irrespective of potential improvements in 
visual acuity outcomes and complication rates, is not cost effective at its 
current cost to patient when compared with cost-effectiveness benchmarks and 
other medical interventions, including PCS. A significant reduction in the cost 
to patient (via reduced consumable/click cost) would increase the likelihood of 
LCS being considered cost effective.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2013.07.056
PMID: 24120324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Exp Gerontol. 2013 Dec;48(12):1420-7. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.09.007. Epub
 2013 Oct 9.

Lifespan extension of rotifers by treatment with red algal extracts.

Snare DJ(1), Fields AM, Snell TW, Kubanek J.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemistry and Biochemistry, Aquatic Chemical Ecology Center, 
Institute for Bioengineering and Bioscience, Georgia Institute of Technology, 
Atlanta, GA 30332, United States.

Aging results from an accumulation of damage to macromolecules inhibiting 
cellular replication, repair, and other necessary functions. Damage may be due 
to environmental stressors such as metal toxicity, oxidative stress caused by 
imperfections in electron transfer reactions, or other metabolic processes. In 
an effort to discover medical treatments that counteract this damage, we 
initiated a search for small molecule drugs from natural sources using life 
table experiments which, through their unbiased approach, present the 
opportunity to discover first-in-class molecules. We have identified marine red 
algae as a source of natural products that slow aging of the invertebrate 
rotifer Brachionus manjavacas. Rotifers are a promising model organism for life 
extension studies as they maintain a short, measurable lifespan while also 
having an extensive literature related to aging. Rotifer lifespan was increased 
9-14% by exposure to three of a total of 200 screened red algal extracts. 
Bioassay guided fractionation led to semi-purified extracts composed primarily 
of lipids responsible for rotifer life extension. The life extending mixture 
from the red alga Acanthophora spicifera contained eicosanoic, octadecanoic, and 
hexadecanoic acids as well as several unidentified unsaturated fatty acids. The 
life extending effects of these small molecule mixtures are not a result of 
their direct antioxidant capacity; other unknown mechanisms of action are likely 
involved. An understanding of how these natural products interact with their 
molecular targets could lead to selective and effective treatments for slowing 
aging and reducing age related diseases.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.09.007
PMCID: PMC3856191
PMID: 24120568 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Arch Phys Med Rehabil. 2014 Feb;95(2):401-5. doi:
10.1016/j.apmr.2013.07.028.  Epub 2013 Oct 9.

Is there a potential relationship between prior hamstring strain injury and 
increased risk for future anterior cruciate ligament injury?

Opar DA(1), Serpell BG(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Exercise and Nutrition Science, Brisbane, Australia; Institute of 
Health and Biomedical Innovation, Queensland University of Technology, Brisbane, 
Australia; School of Exercise Science, Australian Catholic University, 
Melbourne, Australia. Electronic address: d.opar@qut.edu.au.
(2)Trauma and Orthopaedic Research Unit, Canberra Hospital, Woden, Australia; 
Medical School, Australian National University, Canberra, Australia; ACT 
Brumbies, Canberra, Australia.

Hamstring strain injuries (HSIs) are the most prevalent injury in a number of 
sports, and while anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) injuries are less common, 
they are far more severe and have long-term implications, such as an increased 
risk of developing osteoarthritis later in life. Given the high incidence and 
severity of these injuries, they are key targets of injury preventive programs 
in elite sport. Evidence has shown that a previous severe knee injury (including 
ACL injury) increases the risk of HSI; however, whether the functional deficits 
that occur after HSI result in an increased risk of ACL injury has yet to be 
considered. In this clinical commentary, we present evidence that suggests that 
the link between previous HSI and increased risk of ACL injury requires further 
investigation by drawing parallels between deficits in hamstring function after 
HSI and in women athletes, who are more prone to ACL injury than men athletes. 
Comparisons between the neuromuscular function of the male and female hamstring 
has shown that women display lower hamstring-to-quadriceps strength ratios 
during isokinetic knee flexion and extension, increased activation of the 
quadriceps compared with the hamstrings during a stop-jump landing task, a 
greater time required to reach maximal isokinetic hamstring torque, and lower 
integrated myoelectrical hamstring activity during a sidestep cutting maneuver. 
Somewhat similarly, in athletes with a history of HSI, the previously injured 
limb, compared with the uninjured limb, displays lower eccentric knee flexor 
strength, a lower hamstrings-to-quadriceps strength ratio, lower voluntary 
myoelectrical activity during maximal knee flexor eccentric contraction, a lower 
knee flexor eccentric rate of torque development, and lower voluntary 
myoelectrical activity during the initial portion of eccentric contraction. 
Given that the medial and lateral hamstrings have different actions at the knee 
joint in the coronal plane, which hamstring head is previously injured might 
also be expected to influence the likelihood of future ACL. Whether the deficits 
in function after HSI, as seen in laboratory-based studies, translate to 
deficits in hamstring function during typical injurious tasks for ACL injury has 
yet to be determined but should be a consideration for future work.

Copyright © 2014 American Congress of Rehabilitation Medicine. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.apmr.2013.07.028
PMID: 24121082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. J Burn Care Res. 2014 Jul-Aug;35(4):284-90. doi:
10.1097/BCR.0b013e3182a36916.

Cost-effectiveness comparison between topical silver sulfadiazine and enclosed 
silver dressing for partial-thickness burn treatment.

Sheckter CC(1), Van Vliet MM, Krishnan NM, Garner WL.

Author information:
(1)From the *Division of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Keck School of 
Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles; and †Division of 
Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery, Geisel School of Medicine, Dartmouth, 
Hanover, New Hampshire.

The standard treatment of partial-thickness burns includes topical silver 
products such as silver sulfadiazine (SSD) cream and enclosed dressings 
including silver-impregnated foam (Mepilex Ag; Molnlycke Health Care, 
Gothenburg, Sweden) and silver-laden sheets (Aquacel Ag; ConvaTec, Skillman, 
NJ). The current state of health care is limited by resources, with an emphasis 
on evidence-based outcomes and cost-effective treatments. This study includes a 
decision analysis with an incremental cost-utility ratio comparing enclosed 
silver dressings with SSD in partial-thickness burn patients with TBSA less than 
20%. A comprehensive literature review was conducted to identify clinically 
relevant health states in partial-thickness burn patients. These health states 
include successful healing, infection, and noninfected delayed healing requiring 
either surgery or conservative management. The probabilities of these health 
states were combined with Medicare CPT reimbursement codes (cost) and 
patient-derived utilities to fit into the decision model. Utilities were 
obtained using a visual analog scale during patient interviews. Expected cost 
and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated using the roll-back 
method. The incremental cost-utility ratio for enclosed silver dressing relative 
to SSD was $40,167.99/QALY. One-way sensitivity analysis of complication rates 
confirmed robustness of the model. Assuming a maximum willingness to pay 
$50,000/QALY, the complication rate for SSD must be 22% or higher for enclosed 
silver dressing to be cost effective. By varying complication rates for SSD and 
enclosed silver dressings, the two-way sensitivity analysis demonstrated the 
cost effectiveness of using enclosed silver dressing at the majority of 
complication rates for both treatment modalities. Enclosed silver dressings are 
a cost-effective means of treating partial thickness burns.

