throat, bladder), chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD), tuberculosis and 
cardiovascular disease (i.e. stroke, heart attack). Smoking affects unborn 
babies, children and others exposed to second hand smoke. Stopping or 'quitting' 
is not easy. Nicotine is highly addictive and smoking is frequently associated 
with social activities (e.g. drinking, eating) or psychological factors (e.g. 
work pressure, concerns about body weight, anxiety or depressed mood). The 
benefits of quitting, however, are almost immediate, with a rapid lowering of 
blood pressure and heart rate, improved taste and smell, and a longer-term 
reduction in risk of cancer, heart attack and COPD. Successful quitting requires 
attention to both the factors surrounding why an individual smokes (e.g. stress, 
depression, habit, etc.) and the symptoms associated with nicotine withdrawal. 
Many smokers are not ready or willing to quit and require frequent motivational 
input outlining the benefits that would accrue. In addition to an evaluation of 
nicotine dependence, co-existent medical or psychiatric conditions and barriers 
to quitting should be identified. A tailored approach encompassing psychological 
and social support, in addition to appropriate medication to reduce nicotine 
withdrawal, is likely to provide the best chance of success. Relapse is not 
uncommon and reasons for failure should be addressed in a positive manner and 
further attempts initiated when the individual is ready.Key steps in smoking 
cessation include: (i) identifying all smokers, alerting them to the harms of 
smoking and benefits of quitting; (ii) assessing readiness to initiate an 
attempt to quit; (iii) assessing the physical and psychological dependence to 
nicotine and smoking; (iv) determining the best combination of 
counselling/support and pharmacological therapy; (v) setting a quit date and 
provide suitable resources and support; (vi) frequent follow-up as often as 
possible via text/telephone or in person; (vii) monitoring for side-effects, 
relapse and on-going cessation; and (viii) if relapse occurs, providing the 
necessary support and encourage a further attempt when appropriate. 

DOI: 10.7196/samj.7484
PMID: 24148176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. World Neurosurg. 2014 Mar-Apr;81(3-4):511-9. doi:
10.1016/j.wneu.2013.10.044.  Epub 2013 Oct 19.

Intracranial aneurysms in previously irradiated fields: literature review and 
case report.

Nanney AD 3rd(1), El Tecle NE(1), El Ahmadieh TY(1), Daou MR(1), Bit Ivan EN(2), 
Marymont MH(3), Batjer HH(4), Bendok BR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.
(2)Department of Pathology, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, Illinois, 
USA.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA.
(4)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Texas Southwestern, Dallas, 
Texas, USA.
(5)Department of Neurological Surgery, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA; Department of Radiology, Northwestern Memorial Hospital, Chicago, 
Illinois, USA. Electronic address: bbendok@nmff.org.

Comment in
    World Neurosurg. 2014 Mar-Apr;81(3-4):487-9.
    World Neurosurg. 2014 Mar-Apr;81(3-4):492-3.
    World Neurosurg. 2014 Mar-Apr;81(3-4):490-1.

OBJECTIVE: Radiotherapy is a common treatment for a variety of disease processes 
in the central nervous system; it has an ever-increasing number of indications 
and applications. With the life expectancy of cancer patients increasing, 
delayed complications of radiation have become more apparent. One such potential 
complication is the appearance of intracranial aneurysms in the irradiated 
field. The incidence and natural history of these aneurysms is not well 
understood. To this end, we performed a review of the literature to analyze the 
current state of knowledge of these rare aneurysms. Furthermore, we present a 
case treated at our center.
METHODS: We reviewed the literature for all reported cases of intracranial 
aneurysms appearing in an irradiated field, including any available 
histopathologic analysis. All papers were included irrespective of the language 
in which it was published. We calculated the mean age at radiation exposure, the 
interval between radiation exposure, and aneurysm development and the rate of 
presentation. Herein we also present a case of an intracranial aneurysm in a 
38-year-old patient detected in an irradiation field 33 years after the patient 
underwent craniospinal irradiation for a medulloblastoma.
RESULTS: A total of 46 patients with 69 intracranial aneurysms in irradiation 
fields were reported between 1978 and 2013. The mean age at radiation exposure 
was 34 years, and the mean lag time between exposure and diagnosis was 12 years 
(range, 4 months to 50 years). The median lag time between exposure and 
diagnosis was shorter in patients older than 40 (6 years). Among the reported 
aneurysms, 83% were saccular, 9% were fusiform, and 9% were considered 
pseudo-aneurysms. The Median lag time was 20 years for brachytherapy, 8 years 
for focused radiation, 9 years for whole brain radiation, and 6 years for SRS. 
Among reported aneurysms, 55% presented with some form of hemorrhage: 
intracranial rupture with subarachnoid hemorrhage, epistaxis, or otorrhagia. 
Only 13% were discovered on routine follow-up or were found incidentally for 
work-up of unrelated neurologic symptoms.
CONCLUSION: Although rarely reported, intracranial aneurysms in irradiation 
fields may warrant special attention when diagnosed. These aneurysms may have an 
inherently weaker structure and may be more prone to rupture. Their repair may 
also be complicated by more fragile and irregular morphology. The increasing 
longevity of cancer patients suggests that screening for aneurysms at 
irradiation sites may be warranted, but further studies are needed to validate 
this approach.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.10.044
PMID: 24148882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. J Sports Sci Med. 2012 Sep 1;11(3):387-92. eCollection 2012.

Effects of a combined aerobic and strength training program in youth patients 
with acute lymphoblastic leukemia.

Perondi MB(1), Gualano B, Artioli GG, de Salles Painelli V, Filho VO, Netto G, 
Muratt M, Roschel H, de Sá Pinto AL.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine.

Cure rates of youth with Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia (ALL) have increased in 
the past decades, but survivor's quality of life and physical fitness has become 
a growing concern. Although previous reports showed that resistance training is 
feasible and effective, we hypothesized that a more intense exercise program 
would also be feasible, but more beneficial than low- to moderate-intensity 
training programs. We aimed to examine the effects of an exercise program 
combining high-intensity resistance exercises and moderate-intensity aerobic 
exercises in young patients undergoing treatment for ALL. A quasi-experimental 
study was conducted. The patients (n = 6; 5-16 years of age) underwent a 12-week 
intra-hospital training program involving high-intensity strength exercises and 
aerobic exercise at 70% of the peak oxygen consumption. At baseline and after 12 
weeks, we assessed sub-maximal strength (10 repetition-maximum), quality of life 
and possible adverse effects. A significant improvement was observed in the sub 
maximal strength for bench press (71%), lat pull down (50%), leg press (73%) and 
leg extension (64%) as a result of the training (p < 0.01). The parents' 
evaluations of their children's quality of life revealed an improvement in 
fatigue and general quality of life, but the children's self-reported quality of 
life was not changed. No adverse effects occurred. A 12-week in-hospital 
training program including high-intensity resistance exercises promotes marked 
strength improvements in patients during the maintenance phase of the treatment 
for Acute Lymphoblastic Leukemia without side-effects. Parents' evaluations of 
their children revealed an improvement in the quality of life. Key 
pointsPatients with ALL present low muscle strength and poor quality of 
life.High-intensity resistance exercises combined with moderate-intensity 
aerobic exercise improved muscle strength and quality of life during the 
maintenance phase of ALL treatment.The exercise training program seemed to be 
tolerable and safe in ALL patients.

PMCID: PMC3737942
PMID: 24149344


347. J Sports Sci Med. 2012 Sep 1;11(3):444-51. eCollection 2012.

Kinematics of the typical beach flags start for young adult sprinters.

Lockie RG(1), Vickery WM, Janse de Jonge XA.

Author information:
(1)Exercise and Sport Science, School of Environmental and Life Sciences, 
University of Newcastle , Australia.

This study profiled beach flags start kinematics for experienced young adult 
sprinters. Five males and three females (age = 20.8 ± 2.1 years; height = 1.70 ± 
0.06 meters [m]; mass = 63.9 ± 6.0 kilograms) completed four sprints using their 
competition start technique. A high-speed camera, positioned laterally, filmed 
the start. Data included: start time; hand clearance time; posterior movement 
from the start line; feet spacing during the start; elbow, hip, knee, trunk 
lean, and trajectory angles at take-off; and first step length. Timing gates 
recorded 0-2, 0-5, and 0-20 m time. Spearman's correlations identified variables 
relating (p ≤ 0.05) to faster start and sprint times. The beach flags start 
involved sprinters moving 0.18 ± 0.05 m posterior to the start line by flexing 
both legs underneath the body before turning. Following the turn, the feet were 
positioned 0.47 ± 0.07 apart. This distance negatively correlated with start (ρ 
= -0.647), 0-2 (ρ = -0.683), and 0-5 m (ρ = -0.766) time. Beach flags start 
kinematics at take-off resembled research analyzing track starts and 
acceleration. The elbow extension angle (137.62 ± 13.45°) of the opposite arm to 
the drive leg correlated with 0-2 (ρ = -0.762), 0-5 (ρ = -0.810), and 0-20 m (ρ 
= -0.810) time. Greater arm extension likely assisted with stability during the 
start, leading to enhanced sprint performance. The drive leg knee extension 
angle (146.36 ± 2.26°) correlated with start time (ρ = -0.677), indicating a 
contribution to a faster start completion. A longer first step following the 
start related to faster 0-5 m time (ρ = -0.690). Sprinters quicker over 0-2 and 
0-5 m were also quicker over 20 m (ρ = 0.881-0.952). Beach flags sprinters must 
ensure their start is completed quickly, such that they can attain a high speed 
throughout the race. Key pointsThere are specific movement patterns adopted by 
beach flags sprinters during the start. Sprinters will move posterior to the 
start time prior to turning. Following the turn, sprinters must position their 
feet such that force output is optimized and low body position at take-off can 
be attained.The body position at take-off from the beach flags start is similar 
to that of established technique parameters for track sprinters leaving starting 
blocks, and field sport athletes during acceleration. A greater range of motion 
at the arms can aid with stability during the turn and at take-off from the 
start. Greater knee extension of the drive leg at take-off can assist with 
reducing the duration of the start.The beach flags start must allow for a quick 
generation of speed through the initial stages of the sprint, as this can 
benefit the later stages. A longer first step following the start can help 
facilitate speed over the initial acceleration period. Beach flags sprinters 
must also attempt to maintain their speed throughout the entirety of the race.

PMCID: PMC3737952
PMID: 24149352


348. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2014 Aug;69(8):945-54. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glt161. Epub 2013 Oct 22.

Cranberry interacts with dietary macronutrients to promote healthy aging in 
Drosophila.

Wang C(1), Yolitz J(1), Alberico T(1), Laslo M(1), Sun Y(1), Wheeler CT(1), Sun 
X(1), Zou S(2).

Author information:
(1)Functional Genomics Unit, Translational Gerontology Branch, National 
Institute on Aging, Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Functional Genomics Unit, Translational Gerontology Branch, National 
Institute on Aging, Baltimore, Maryland. zous@mail.nih.gov.

Botanicals possess numerous bioactivities, and some promote healthy aging. 
Dietary macronutrients are major determinants of life span. The interaction 
between botanicals and macronutrients that modulates life span is not well 
understood. Here, we investigated the effect of a cranberry-containing botanical 
on life span and the influence of macronutrients on the longevity-related effect 
of cranberry in Drosophila. Flies were supplemented with cranberry on three 
dietary conditions: standard, high sugar-low protein, and low sugar-high protein 
diets. We found that cranberry slightly extended life span in males fed with the 
low sugar-high protein diet but not with other diets. Cranberry extended life 
span in females fed with the standard diet and more prominently the high 
sugar-low protein diet but not with the low sugar-high protein diet. Life-span 
extension was associated with increased reproduction and higher expression of 
oxidative stress and heat shock response genes. Moreover, cranberry improved 
survival of sod1 knockdown and dfoxo mutant flies but did not increase wild-type 
fly's resistance to acute oxidative stress. Cranberry slightly extended life 
span in flies fed with a high-fat diet. These findings suggest that cranberry 
promotes healthy aging by increasing stress responsiveness. Our study reveals an 
interaction of cranberry with dietary macronutrients and stresses the importance 
of considering diet composition in designing interventions for promoting healthy 
aging.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Gerontological Society of 
America 2013.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glt161
PMCID: PMC4095925
PMID: 24149429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2013 Nov;68(6):974-83. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbt101.

National stereotypes of older people's competence are related to older adults' 
participation in paid and volunteer work.

Bowen CE(1), Skirbekk V.

Author information:
(1)Correspondence should be addressed to Catherine E. Bowen, Jacobs Center on 
Lifelong Learning and Institutional Development, Jacobs University Bremen, 
Campus Ring 1, 28759 Bremen, Germany. E-mail: c.bowen@jacobs-university.de.

OBJECTIVES: Why are older people perceived as more competent in some countries 
relative to others? In the current study, we investigate the extent to which 
national variation in perceptions of older people's competence is systematically 
related to national variation in the extent to which older people participate in 
paid and volunteer work.
METHOD: We used multilevel regression to analyze data from the European Social 
Survey and test the relationship between perceptions of older people's 
competence and older people's participation in paid and volunteer work across 28 
countries. We controlled for a number of potentially confounding variables, 
including life expectancy as well as the gender ratio and average education of 
the older population in each country. We controlled for the average objective 
cognitive abilities of the older population in a subsample of 11 countries.
RESULTS: Older people were perceived as more competent in countries in which 
more older people participated in paid or volunteer work, independent of life 
expectancy and the average education, gender makeup, and average cognitive 
abilities of the older population.
DISCUSSION: The results suggest that older people's participation in paid and 
volunteer work is related to perceptions of older people's competence 
independent of older people's actual competence.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbt101
PMID: 24150178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


350. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. 2013 Dec;20(6):539-46. doi: 
10.1097/01.med.0000436192.25846.0b.

An update on the recent literature on sickle cell bone disease.

Osunkwo I(1).

Author information:
(1)Children's Healthcare of Atlanta and The Department of Pediatrics Emory 
University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To summarize the findings of the recent publications on 
sickle cell bone disease (SBD).
RECENT FINDINGS: Individuals with sickle cell disease (SCD) are living longer 
and develop progressive organ damage including SBD with age. Recent studies 
suggest alternative radiological diagnostics such as ultrasound and scintigraphy 
can detect and differentiate between different forms of SBD. MRI with or without 
diffusion-weighted sequences remains the gold standard. Case reports of 
cranio-orofacial SBD highlight the rarity of this presentation. Vitamin D 
deficiency is highly prevalent at all ages, but may not be an independent risk 
factor for avascular necrosis (AVN). Gene polymorphisms of the Annexin A gene 
may predict AVN in SCD. A recent study demonstrated reduced days with pain and 
improved physical activity quality of life following high-dose vitamin D 
therapy. The high rates of osteopenia and osteoporosis in SCD support the need 
for research addressing this rising public health problem. Lastly, results of 
total hip arthroplasty for AVN in SCD has improved significantly over time with 
the use of cementless prosthetic material and improved supportive care.
SUMMARY: SBD remains poorly studied. Prospective randomized studies targeting 
predictors, diagnostics, prevention, and treatment options for SBD are sorely 
needed.

DOI: 10.1097/01.med.0000436192.25846.0b
PMID: 24150191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2014 Jan 1;39(1):23-32. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0000000000000065.

Cost-effectiveness of total disc replacement versus multidisciplinary 
rehabilitation in patients with chronic low back pain: a Norwegian multicenter 
RCT.

Johnsen LG(1), Hellum C, Storheim K, Nygaard ØP, Brox JI, Rossvoll I, Rø M, 
Andresen H, Lydersen S, Grundnes O, Pedersen M, Leivseth G, Olafsson G, 
Borgström F, Fritzell P; Norwegian Spine Study Group.

Author information:
(1)*Neuroclinic, Center of Spinal Disorder and †Department of Orthopaedic 
Surgery, Clinic of Orthopaedics and Rheumatology, St. Olavs Hospital, Trondheim 
University Hospital, Norway ‡Department of Neuroscience, Faculty of Medicine, 
Norwegian University of Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway §Orthopaedic 
Department, Clinic for Surgery and Neurology, Oslo University Hospital and 
University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway ¶FORMI, Clinic for Surgery and Neurology, Oslo 
University Hospital, Oslo, Norway ‖Regional Centre for Child and Youth Mental 
Health and Child Welfare-Central Norway, Norwegian University of Science and 
Technology, Trondheim, Norway **Aleris Hospital, Oslo, Norway ††SINTEF 
Technology and Society, Trondheim, Norway ‡‡Department of Clinical Medicine, 
Neuromuscular Diseases and Research Group, University of Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway 
§§Quantify Research, Stockholm, Sweden ¶¶Department of Learning, Informatics, 
Management and Ethics, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; and ‖‖Ryhov 
Hospital, Jönköping, Sweden.

STUDY DESIGN: Randomized clinical trial with 2-year follow-up.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of total disc replacement (TDR) 
versus multidisciplinary rehabilitation (MDR) in patients with chronic low back 
pain (CLBP).
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The existing studies on CLBP report 
cost-effectiveness of fusion surgery versus disc replacement and fusion versus 
rehabilitation. This study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of TDR versus MDR.
METHODS: Between April 2004 and May 2007, 173 patients with CLBP (>1 yr) were 
randomized to TDR (n = 86) or MDR (n = 87). Treatment effects (Euro Qol 5D 
[EQ-5D] and Short Form 6D [SF-6D]) and relevant direct and indirect costs at 6 
weeks and at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months after treatment were assessed. Gain in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) after 2 years was estimated. 
Cost-effectiveness was expressed as an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: The mean QALYs gained (standard deviation) using EQ-5D was 1.29 (0.53) 
in the TDR group and 0.95 (0.52) in the MDR group, a significant difference of 
0.34 (95% confidence interval 0.18-0.50). The mean total cost per patient in the 
TDR group was &OV0556;87,622 (58,351) compared with &OV0556;74,116 (58,237) in 
the MDR group, which was not significantly different (95% confidence interval: 
-4041 to 31,755). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for the TDR procedure 
varied from &OV0556;39,748 using EQ-5D (TDR cost-effective) to &OV0556;128,328 
using SF-6D (TDR not cost-effective). The dropout rate was 20% (15% TDR group, 
24% MDR group). Five patients moved from the MDR to the TDR group, whereas 9 
patients randomized to TDR declined surgery. Using per-protocol analysis instead 
of intention-to-treat analysis indicated that TDR was not cost-effective, 
irrespective of the use of EQ-5D or SF-6D.
CONCLUSION: In this study, TDR was cost-effective compared with MDR after 2 
years when using EQ-5D for assessing QALYs gained and a willingness to pay of 
&OV0556;74,600 (kr500,000/QALY). TDR was not cost-effective when SF-6D was used; 
therefore, our results should be interpreted with caution. Longer follow-up is 
needed to accurately assess the cost-effectiveness of TDR.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 2.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000000065
PMID: 24150435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Biotechnol Lett. 2014 Mar;36(3):523-9. doi: 10.1007/s10529-013-1375-3. Epub
2013  Oct 23.

Silencing the glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase gene in Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae results in more ethanol being produced and less glycerol.

He W(1), Ye S, Xue T, Xu S, Li W, Lu J, Cao L, Ye B, Chen Y.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou, 350108, People's 
Republic of China, tingtxue@163.com.

Transcription of the gene coding for glycerol-3-phosphate dehydrogenase (GPD1) 
was repressed in an industrial strain of Saccharomyces cerevisiae using a 
silencing vector. A fusion fragment containing GPD1 and Kan MX genes was 
generated by overlap extension PCR, then, the vector, pYES2.0 GPD1/Kan MX, was 
constructed by inserting the fusion fragment into the S. cerevisiae plasmid, 
pYES2.0. pYES2.0 GPD1/Kan MX, was linearized by KpnI, transformed into S. 
cerevisiae using the PEG/LiAc/ssDNA method, and integrated into the S. 
cerevisiae chromosome. GPD1 silencing gave 20 % less glycerol-3-phosphate 
dehydrogenase activity, 19 % lower glycerol production, and 9.7 % higher ethanol 
production compared with the original strain. These findings further the 
development of industrial S. cerevisiae strains with improved ethanol production 
and reduced glycerol content for the efficient production of bio-ethanol.

DOI: 10.1007/s10529-013-1375-3
PMID: 24150518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Zentralbl Chir. 2013 Oct;138(5):554-62. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1350884. Epub
2013  Oct 22.

[Increasingly individualised therapeutic options in the rare isolated aneurysm 
of the iliac artery--vascular surgical versus image-guided endovascular 
intervention].

[Article in German]

Halloul Z(1), Weber M, Udelnow A, Dudeck O, Meyer F.

Author information:
(1)Arbeitsbereich Gefäßchirurgie, Klinik für Allgemein-, Viszeral- und 
Gefäßchirurgie, Universitätsklinikum Magdeburg A. ö. R. Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: Isolated aneurysms of the iliac artery are rare but in case of 
rupture potentially life-threatening.
AIM, PATIENTS AND METHODS: The aim of this systematic, clinical, prospective 
observational study was to retrospectively evaluate prospectively collected 
perioperative data obtained in consecutive patients with an isolated iliac 
artery aneurysm with regard to the diagnostic and therapeutic management 
including the outcome characterised by periinterventional morbidity, lethality, 
and overall survival over an intermediate time course of the follow-up.
RESULTS: From 01/01/2002 to 03/31/2013, overall 35 patients with an isolated 
iliac artery aneurysm were diagnosed (females, n = 3 [8.6 %]; mean age, 70 
[46-83] years). The mean hospital stay was 13 days. There were 24 aneurysms at 
the common iliac artery (AIC; 69 %), 8 at the internal iliac artery (AII; 23 %) 
and 3 at the external iliac artery (AIE; 9 %). Three patients (9 %) with an 
aneurysmatic rupture were admitted. The therapeutic options comprised: 12 
patients underwent open resection and subsequent implantation of a prosthesis 
(34 %), 17 individuals were treated with an endovascular repair (49 %); 5 cases 
were managed with a "wait and see" policy (14 %). There was no lethality among 
the elective interventions whereas the lethality of emergency cases was 33 % (n 
= 1). Subdividing the patients treated with open surgery versus endovascular 
repair indicates significant differences of the preoperative characteristics, 
e.g., of the proportions of AIC in the distribution of aneurysmatic sites (75 % 
vs. 59 %; p = 0.007) reflecting the differential indication.
CONCLUSIONS: Isolated iliac artery aneurysms can be approached with open surgery 
or with an endovascular repair depending on elective or emergency circumstances. 
In addition, clinical status of the patient and personal experience need to be 
taken into account. Depending on aneurysmatic site, extension, combination with 
accompanying findings and implantation sites at the proximal and distal sites of 
the aneurysm, the less invasive and less traumatic image-guided radiological 
approach can provide acceptable therapeutic success with regard to the 
sufficient exclusion of the aneurysm and can be increasingly used according to 
the individual patient and his/her findings.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1350884
PMID: 24150805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. J Heart Valve Dis. 2013 May;22(3):433-5.

Successful transcatheter valve-in-valve implantation in a small deteriorated 
aortic valve bioprosthesis.

Bjursten H(1), Götberg M, Harnek J, Nozohoor S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Lund University, Lund, Sweden. 
henrik.bjursten@med.lu.se

Increased life expectancy and improvement in clinical outcome following surgery 
has led to an increasing number of elderly patients with a history of prior 
aortic valve replacement (AVR). As a consequence, a considerable number of 
patients may require reintervention due to a dysfunctional bioprosthesis with 
structural valve deterioration (SVD). Transcatheter aortic valve implantation 
(TAVI) has become an established surgical alternative in patients with aortic 
stenosis and severe comorbidities. For those patients requiring reoperation, the 
'valve-in-valve' concept has been described. Here, the case is reported of a 
patient with a very small Sorin Soprano 18 bioprosthesis with SVD who underwent 
a reintervention with the transapical valve-in-valve technique. The implantation 
was uneventful, with no residual paravalvular leakage and a low mean 
transprosthetic gradient. The valve-in-valve procedure may represent a feasible 
alternative for redo AVR in patients with a very small, structurally 
deteriorated bioprosthesis.

PMID: 24151773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2014 Jan;15(1):1-3. doi:
10.1517/14656566.2014.850491.  Epub 2013 Oct 23.

Resistant chronic myeloid leukemia beyond tyrosine-kinase inhibitor therapy: 
which role for omacetaxine?

Visani G(1), Isidori A.

Author information:
(1)Hematology & Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplant Center, AORMN MARCHE NORD , 
Via Lombroso, 1 - 61100, Pesaro , Italy +39 0721 364039 ; +39 0721 364036 ; 
giuseppe.visani@ospedalimarchenord.it.

The therapeutic armamentarium of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) has been 
considerably improved after the introduction of first- and second-generation 
tyrosine-kinase inhibitors (TKIs). Accordingly, the natural history of the 
diseases has changed, and patients in complete molecular response now have the 
same life expectancy of their healthy coetaneous. Notwithstanding these results, 
∼ 20 - 30% of patients do not respond optimally to TKIs therapy, and most of 
these patients are potential candidates to progress toward the accelerated or 
blastic phase of the disease. Unfortunately, patients who become resistant to 
both first- and second-generation TKIs develop BCR-ABL kinase domain mutations, 
against which TKIs have extremely low cross-activity. In particular, none of the 
TKIs, with the exception of ponatinib, has significant activity against T315 
mutation, which is estimated to be present in ∼ 15 - 20% of patients carrying 
BCR-ABL mutations. The use of omacetaxine mepesuccinate/homoharringtonine for 
the treatment of TKI-resistant CML patients regained interest due to its 
mechanism of action independent of binding to the ATP-binding pocket. Therefore, 
the activity of this compound is independent from the presence of BCR-ABL1 
mutations, which makes it an attractive option for the treatment of CML patients 
after TKI failure.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2014.850491
PMID: 24152096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2013;157(43):A6625.

[Choices for women at risk of hereditary breast cancer].

[Article in Dutch]

Saadatmand S(1), Obdeijn IM, Koppert LB, Tilanus-Linthorst M.

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC, Kankerinstituut, Rotterdam.

In this article, we describe a woman diagnosed as being a BRCA1 mutation carrier 
at 32 years of age and a BRCA2 mutation carrier diagnosed at age 63 who each 
opted for MRI screening instead of a preventive mastectomy. In both women, 
breast cancer was detected by MRI: not visible on the mammogram, < 1 cm and node 
negative. Both women opted for breast-conserving treatment. We compare their 
screening strategies and therapy choices with those of a woman with a familial 
risk who was diagnosed with breast cancer at age 52. We also discuss the 
relevant literature. For BRCA1/2-mutation carriers, bilateral preventive 
oophorectomy, combined with either MRI screening or a bilateral preventive 
mastectomy, can contribute considerably to a better life expectancy. Both 
options are nearly equally effective. Breast-conserving treatment can be a safe 
choice for young BRCA1/2 mutation carriers despite a 40% risk of contralateral 
cancer within 10 years and possibly a higher risk of developing a second 
ipsilateral cancer. The contribution of mammography to early breast cancer 
detection is small for MRI-screened BRCA1 carriers below 40 years of age; less 
than 10% according to the current literature. The high tumour growth rate and 
high breast cancer incidence in BRCA1/2 carriers above the age of 60 are 
arguments to screen more frequently than the current mammogram every 2 years. 
The optimal screening strategy for women with a familial risk either yearly MRI 
or mammogram - is still unknown and is being investigated in a randomized 
controlled trial (www.famrisc.nl). The age of onset of breast cancer is 
determined by both family history and risk group. If known, the ages of family 
members at diagnosis may assist in determining at what age preventive measures 
should be started for high-risk women.

PMID: 24152366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. NCHS Data Brief. 2013 Jul;(125):1-8.

How did cause of death contribute to racial differences in life expectancy in 
the United States in 2010?

Kochanek KD(1), Arias E, Anderson RN.

Author information:
(1)Centers for Disease Control and Prevention National Center for Health 
Statistics 3311 Toledo Road, Hyattsville, Maryland 20782, USA.

Data from the National Vital Statistics System, Mortality In 2010, life 
expectancy for the black population was 3.8 years lower than that of the white 
population. This difference was due to higher death rates for the black 
population for heart disease, cancer, homicide, diabetes, and perinatal 
conditions. Life expectancy for black males was 4.7 years lower than that of 
white males. This difference was due to higher death rates for black males for 
heart disease, homicide, cancer, stroke, and perinatal conditions. Life 
expectancy for black females was 3.3 years lower than that of white females. 
This difference was due to higher death rates for black females for heart 
disease, cancer, diabetes, perinatal conditions, and stroke.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 24152376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Br J Gen Pract. 2013 Oct;63(615):e676-82. doi: 10.3399/bjgp13X673685.

Opinions of the Dutch public on palliative sedation: a mixed-methods approach.

van der Kallen HT(1), Raijmakers NJ, Rietjens JA, van der Male AA, Bueving HJ, 
van Delden JJ, van der Heide A.

Author information:
(1)Departments of General Practice and Public Health, Erasmus MC, University 
Medical Center Rotterdam, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Palliative sedation is defined as deliberately lowering a patient's 
consciousness, to relieve intolerable suffering from refractory symptoms at the 
end of life. Palliative sedation is considered a last resort intervention in 
end-of-life care that should not be confused with euthanasia.
AIM: To inform healthcare professionals about attitudes of the general public 
regarding palliative sedation. design and setting: A cross-sectional survey 
among members of the Dutch general public followed by qualitative interviews.
METHOD: One thousand nine hundred and sixty members of the general public 
completed the questionnaire, which included a vignette describing palliative 
sedation (response rate 78%); 16 participants were interviewed.
RESULTS: In total, 22% of the responders indicated knowing the term 'palliative 
sedation'. Qualitative data showed a variety of interpretations of the term. 
Eighty-one per cent of the responders agreed with the provision of sedatives as 
described in a vignette of a patient with untreatable pain and a life expectancy 
of <1 week who received sedatives to alleviate his suffering. This percentage 
was somewhat lower for a patient with a life expectancy of <1 month (74%, P = 
0.007) and comparable in the case where the physician gave sedatives with the 
aim of ending the patient's life (79%, P = 0.54).
CONCLUSION: Most of the general public accept the use of palliative sedation at 
the end of life, regardless of a potential life-shortening effect. However, 
confusion exists about what palliative sedation represents. This should be taken 
into account by healthcare professionals when communicating with patients and 
their relatives on end-of-life care options.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp13X673685
PMCID: PMC3782800
PMID: 24152482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Oct;17(46):1-216. doi: 10.3310/hta17460.

A cluster randomised controlled trial and economic evaluation of a structured 
training programme for caregivers of inpatients after stroke: the TRACS trial.

Forster A(1), Dickerson J, Young J, Patel A, Kalra L, Nixon J, Smithard D, Knapp 
M, Holloway I, Anwar S, Farrin A; TRACS Trial Collaboration.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Elderly Care and Rehabilitation, Bradford Teaching Hospitals 
NHS Foundation Trust, Bradford and University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.

BACKGROUND: The majority of stroke patients are discharged home dependent on 
informal caregivers, usually family members, to provide assistance with 
activities of daily living (ADL), including bathing, dressing and toileting. 
Many caregivers feel unprepared for this role and this may have a detrimental 
effect on both the patient and caregiver.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether or not a structured, competency-based training 
programme for caregivers [the London Stroke Carer Training Course (LSCTC)] 
improved physical and psychological outcomes for patients and their caregivers 
after disabling stroke, and to determine if such a training programme is 
cost-effective.
DESIGN: A pragmatic, multicentre, cluster randomised controlled trial.
SETTING: Stratified randomisation of 36 stroke rehabilitation units (SRUs) to 
the intervention or control group by geographical region and quality of care.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 930 stroke patient and caregiver dyads were recruited. 
Patients were eligible if they had a confirmed diagnosis of stroke, were 
medically stable, were likely to return home with residual disability at the 
time of discharge and had a caregiver available, willing and able to provide 
support after discharge. The caregiver was defined as the main person--other 
than health, social or voluntary care provider--helping with ADL and/or 
advocating on behalf of the patient.
INTERVENTION: The intervention (the LSCTC) comprised a number of caregiver 
training sessions and competency assessment delivered by SRU staff while the 
patient was in the SRU and one recommended follow-up session after discharge. 
The control group continued to provide usual care according to national 
guidelines. Recruitment was completed by independent researchers and 
participants were unaware of the SRUs' allocation.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcomes were self-reported extended ADL for 
the patient and caregiver burden measured at 6 months after recruitment. 
Secondary outcomes included quality of life, mood and cost-effectiveness, with 
final follow-up at 12 months.
RESULTS: No differences in primary outcomes were found between the groups at 6 
months. Adjusted mean differences were -0.2 points [95% confidence interval (CI) 
-3.0 to 2.5 points; p = 0.866; intracluster correlation coefficient (ICC) = 
0.027] for the patient Nottingham Extended Activities of Daily Living score and 
0.5 points (95% CI -1.7 to 2.7 points; p = 0.660; ICC = 0.013) for the Caregiver 
Burden Scale. Furthermore, no differences were detected in any of the secondary 
outcomes. Intervention compliance varied across the units. Half of the 
participating centres had a compliance rating of > 60%. Analysis showed no 
evidence of higher levels of patient independence or lower levels of caregiver 
burden in the SRUs with better levels of intervention compliance. The economic 
evaluation suggests that from a patient and caregiver perspective, health and 
social care costs, societal costs and outcomes are similar for the intervention 
and control groups at 6 months, 12 months and over 1 year.
CONCLUSIONS: We have conducted a robust multicentre, cluster randomised trial, 
demonstrating for the first time that this methodology is feasible in stroke 
rehabilitation research. There was no difference between the LSCTC and usual 
care with respect to improving stroke patients' recovery, reducing caregivers' 
burden, or improving other physical and psychological outcomes, nor was it 
cost-effective compared with usual care. Compliance with the intervention 
varied, but analysis indicated that a dose effect was unlikely. It is possible 
that the immediate post-stroke period may not be the ideal time for the delivery 
of structured training. The intervention approach might be more relevant if 
delivered after discharge by community-based teams.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN49208824.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the MRC and is managed by the NIHR (project 
number 09/800/10) on behalf of the MRC-NIHR partnership, and will be published 
in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 17, No. 46. See the NIHR Journals 
Library website for further project information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17460
PMCID: PMC4967811
PMID: 24153026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. J Med Life. 2013 Sep 15;6(3):278-82. Epub 2013 Sep 25.

Prognosis elements in surgical treatment of complicated umbilical hernia in 
patients with liver cirrhosis.

Banu P(1), Popa F, Constantin VD, Bălălău C, Nistor M.

Author information:
(1)"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest; General 
Surgery Department, "Sf. Pantelimon" Emergency Hospital, Bucharest.

INTRODUCTION: The surgical treatment of umbilical hernia in cirrhosis patients 
raises special management challenges. The attitude upon the repair of these 
hernias varies from expectancy or elective treatment in early stages of the 
disease to the surgical treatment only if complications occur.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: We have assessed 22 consecutive cases of cirrhosis patients 
treated for complicated umbilical hernia in the Surgical Department of "Sf. 
Pantelimon" Emergency Hospital in Bucharest between January 2008 and December 
2012. The patients' stratification was done in stages of liver disease based 
upon Child-Pugh classification. Complications that required emergency repair 
were the following: strangulation, incarceration and hernia rupture. The 
postoperative complications were ordered in five grades of severity based upon 
Clavien classification.
RESULTS: The severity of the complications was higher in advanced stages of 
liver cirrhosis, Child B and C. There were 5 deaths representing 22,7%, four of 
them in patients with Child C disease stage.
CONCLUSION: The incidence of morbidity and mortality after umbilical hernia 
repair in emergencies increases in advanced stages of liver cirrhosis. It is 
advisable to prevent complications occurrence and perform surgical repair of 
umbilical hernia in elective condition.

PMCID: PMC3806031
PMID: 24155783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. GLB1-Related Disorders.

Regier DS(1), Tifft CJ(2), Rothermel CE(3).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2013 Oct 17 [updated 2021 Apr 22].

Author information:
(1)Medical Director, Rare Disease Institute, Children's National Hospital, 
Washington, DC
(2)Deputy Clinical Director, National Human Genome Research Institute, National 
Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland
(3)National Human Genome Research Institute, National Institutes of Health, 
Bethesda, Maryland

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: GLB1-related disorders comprise two phenotypically 
distinct lysosomal storage disorders: GM1 gangliosidosis and 
mucopolysaccharidosis type IVB (MPS IVB). The phenotype of GM1 gangliosidosis 
constitutes a spectrum ranging from severe (infantile) to intermediate 
(late-infantile and juvenile) to mild (chronic/adult). Type I (infantile) GM1 
gangliosidosis begins before age 12 months. Prenatal manifestations may include 
nonimmune hydrops fetalis, intrauterine growth restriction, and placental 
vacuolization; congenital dermal melanocytosis (Mongolian spots) may be 
observed. Macular cherry-red spot is detected on eye exam. Progressive central 
nervous system dysfunction leads to spasticity and rapid regression; blindness, 
deafness, decerebrate rigidity, seizures, feeding difficulties, and oral 
secretions are observed. Life expectancy is two to three years. Type II can be 
subdivided into the late-infantile (onset age 1-3 years) and juvenile (onset age 
3-10 years) phenotypes. Central nervous system dysfunction manifests as 
progressive cognitive, motor, and speech decline as measured by psychometric 
testing. There may be mild corneal clouding, hepatosplenomegaly, and/or 
cardiomyopathy; the typical course is characterized by progressive neurologic 
decline, progressive skeletal disease in some individuals (including kyphosis 
and avascular necrosis of the femoral heads), and progressive feeding 
difficulties leading to aspiration risk. Type III begins in late childhood to 
the third decade with generalized dystonia leading to unsteady gait and speech 
disturbance followed by extrapyramidal signs including akinetic-rigid 
parkinsonism. Cardiomyopathy develops in some and skeletal involvement occurs in 
most. Intellectual impairment is common late in the disease with prognosis 
directly related to the degree of neurologic impairment. MPS IVB is 
characterized by skeletal dysplasia with specific findings of axial and 
appendicular dysostosis multiplex, short stature (below 15th centile in adults), 
kyphoscoliosis, coxa/genu valga, joint laxity, platyspondyly, and odontoid 
hypoplasia. First signs and symptoms may be apparent at birth. Bony involvement 
is progressive, with more than 84% of adults requiring ambulation aids; life 
span does not appear to be limited. Corneal clouding is detected in some 
individuals and cardiac valvular disease may develop.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of a GLB1-related disorder is established in a 
proband with suggestive clinical findings by identification of biallelic 
pathogenic (or likely pathogenic) variants in GLB1 by molecular genetic testing, 
or of significantly reduced activity of the β-galactosidase enzyme activity in 
peripheral blood leukocytes or fibroblasts.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Best provided by specialists in 
biochemical genetics, cardiology, orthopedics, and neurology and therapists 
knowledgeable about GLB1-related disorders; surgery is best performed in centers 
with surgeons and anesthesiologists experienced in the care of individuals with 
lysosomal storage disorders; early and ongoing interventions to optimize 
comfort, mobility, educational and social outcomes. Anesthetic expertise and 
precautions are necessary to anticipate and manage complications relating to 
skeletal involvement and airway compromise. Surveillance: GM1 gangliosidosis. 
Assess yearly: quality of life by neurologist, physiotherapist and nutritionist; 
seizure risk by a neurologist; cervical spine stability; and hip dislocation 
risk. Perform every one to three years: electrocardiogram, echocardiogram, and 
eye examination. MPS IVB. Yearly: ocular exam; assess lower extremities for 
malalignment, hips for dysplasia/subluxation, thoracolumbar spine for kyphosis, 
and cervical spine for instability; assessment by physiotherapist to optimize 
ambulation; perform endurance tests to evaluate functional status of the 
cardiovascular, pulmonary, musculoskeletal, and nervous systems. Perform 
electrocardiogram and echocardiogram every one to three years. 
Agents/circumstances to avoid: Unplanned anesthesia management due to increased 
risk for complications; psychotropic medications because of the risk of 
worsening neurologic disease; positioning that increases aspiration risk during 
feedings, seizure medication dosages that result in excessive sedation, and 
circumstances that exacerbate fall risk for those with GM1 gangliosidosis; 
excessive weight gain in those with MPS IVB.
GENETIC COUNSELING: GLB1-related disorders are inherited in an autosomal 
recessive manner. If both parents are known to be heterozygous for a GLB1 
pathogenic variant, each sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% 
chance of being affected, a 50% chance of being an asymptomatic carrier, and a 
25% chance of being unaffected and not a carrier. Once the GLB1 pathogenic 
variants have been identified in an affected family member, carrier testing for 
at-risk relatives and prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 24156116


362. Acta Clin Belg. 2013 May-Jun;68(3):193-8. doi: 10.2143/ACB.3271.

Mycotic thoracic aortic aneurysm: review of the diagnostic and therapeutic 
options.

Steverlynck L(1), Van de Walle S.

Author information:
(1)Heilig Hart hospital, Roeselare, Belgium. lucassteverlynck@hotmail.com

Along with greater life-expectancy, the prevalence of aortic aneurysm and its 
infected complicated variant increases. We present the case of a mycotic aortic 
aneurysm. Mycotic aneurysms represent only between 0.7% and 2.6% of all aortic 
aneurysms. It is a highly lethal variant of the classical aortic aneurysm in 
which death supervenes in all cases that are left untreated. Up to 60% of 
mycotic aortic aneurysms may present as ruptured. Time from admission to 
diagnosis of mycotic thoracic aortic aneurysm ranges from 1 to 4 days and the 
time from diagnosis to the necessity of surgery 1 to 11 days. Adequate knowledge 
about the diagnostic and therapeutic options is mandatory improve survival and 
will be reviewed in this article.

DOI: 10.2143/ACB.3271
PMID: 24156219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. J Med Econ. 2014 Jan;17(1):52-64. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.858634. Epub
2013  Nov 14.

Cost-effectiveness of rivaroxaban compared with enoxaparin plus a vitamin K 
antagonist for the treatment of venous thromboembolism.

Lefebvre P(1), Coleman CI, Bookhart BK, Wang ST, Mody SH, Tran KN, Zhuo DY, 
Huynh L, Nutescu EA.

Author information:
(1)Groupe d'analyse , Ltée, Montréal, Québec , Canada.

BACKGROUND: Venous thromboembolism (VTE), comprised of deep vein thrombosis 
(DVT) and pulmonary embolism (PE), is commonly treated with a 
low-molecular-weight heparin such as enoxaparin plus a vitamin K antagonist 
(VKA) to prevent recurrence. Administration of enoxaparin + VKA is hampered by 
complexities of laboratory monitoring and frequent dose adjustments. 
Rivaroxaban, an orally administered anticoagulant, has been compared with 
enoxaparin + VKA in the EINSTEIN trials. The objective was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of rivaroxaban compared with enoxaparin + VKA as 
anticoagulation treatment for acute, symptomatic, objectively-confirmed DVT or 
PE.
METHODS: A Markov model was built to evaluate the costs, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios associated with 
rivaroxaban compared to enoxaparin + VKA in adult patients treated for acute DVT 
or PE. All patients entered the model in the 'on-treatment' state upon 
commencement of oral rivaroxaban or enoxaparin + VKA for 3, 6, or 12 months. 
Transition probabilities were obtained from the EINSTEIN trials during treatment 
and published literature after treatment. A 3-month cycle length, US payer 
perspective ($2012), 5-year time horizon and a 3% annual discount rate were 
used.
RESULTS: Treatment with rivaroxaban cost $2,448 per-patient less and was 
associated with 0.0058 more QALYs compared with enoxaparin + VKA, making it a 
dominant economic strategy. Upon one-way sensitivity analysis, the model's 
results were sensitive to the reduction in index VTE hospitalization 
length-of-stay associated with rivaroxaban compared with enoxaparin + VKA. At a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $50,000/QALY, probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
showed rivaroxaban to be cost-effective compared with enoxaparin + VKA 
approximately 76% of the time.
LIMITATIONS: The model did not account for the benefits associated with an oral 
and minimally invasive administration of rivaroxaban. 'Real-world' applicability 
is limited because data from the EINSTEIN trials were used in the model. Also, 
resource utilization and costs were based on the US healthcare system.
CONCLUSION: Rivaroxaban is a cost-effective option for anticoagulation treatment 
of acute VTE patients.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.858634
PMID: 24156243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Neuroeng Rehabil. 2013 Oct 24;10:108. doi: 10.1186/1743-0003-10-108.

Sub-threshold spinal cord stimulation facilitates spontaneous motor activity in 
spinal rats.

Gad P, Choe J, Shah P, Garcia-Alias G, Rath M, Gerasimenko Y, Zhong H, Roy RR, 
Edgerton VR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Integrative Biology and Physiology, University of California, 
Los Angeles, Terasaki Life Sciences Building, 610 Charles E, Young Drive East, 
Los Angeles, CA 90095-7239, USA. vre@ucla.edu.

BACKGROUND: Epidural stimulation of the spinal cord can be used to enable 
stepping on a treadmill (electrical enabling motor control, eEmc) after a 
complete mid-thoracic spinal cord transection in adult rats. Herein we have 
studied the effects of eEmc using a sub-threshold intensity of stimulation 
combined with spontaneous load-bearing proprioception to facilitate hindlimb 
stepping and standing during daily cage activity in paralyzed rats.
METHODS: We hypothesized that eEmc combined with spontaneous cage activity would 
greatly increase the frequency and level of activation of the locomotor circuits 
in paralyzed rats. Spontaneous cage activity was recorded using a specially 
designed swivel connector to record EMG signals and an IR based camcorder to 
record video.
RESULTS AND CONCLUSION: The spinal rats initially were very lethargic in their 
cages showing little movement. Without eEmc, the rats remained rather inactive 
with the torso rarely being elevated from the cage floor. When the rats used 
their forelimbs to move, the hindlimbs were extended and dragged behind with 
little or no flexion. In contrast, with eEmc the rats were highly active and the 
hindlimbs showed robust alternating flexion and extension resulting in step-like 
movements during forelimb-facilitated locomotion and often would stand using the 
sides of the cages as support. The mean and summed integrated EMG levels in both 
a hindlimb flexor and extensor muscle were higher with than without eEmc. These 
data suggest that eEmc, in combination with the associated proprioceptive input, 
can modulate the spinal networks to significantly amplify the amount and 
robustness of spontaneous motor activity in paralyzed rats.

DOI: 10.1186/1743-0003-10-108
PMCID: PMC4016220
PMID: 24156340 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. BMC Health Serv Res. 2013 Oct 25;13:440. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-440.

Estimating lifetime healthcare costs with morbidity data.

Carreras M(1), Ibern P, Coderch J, Sánchez I, Inoriza JM.

Author information:
(1)GRESSiRES, Research group on health services and health outcomes, Serveis de 
Salut Integrats Baix Empordà, Hospital 27, Palamós, 17230, Spain. 
marc.carrerasp@udg.edu.

BACKGROUND: In many developed countries, the economic crisis started in 2008 
producing a serious contraction of the financial resources spent on healthcare. 
Identifying which individuals will require more resources and the moment in 
their lives these resources have to be allocated becomes essential. It is well 
known that a small number of individuals with complex healthcare needs consume a 
high percentage of health expenditures. Conversely, little is known on how 
morbidity evolves throughout life. The aim of this study is to introduce a 
longitudinal perspective to chronic disease management.
METHODS: Data used relate to the population of the county of Baix Empordà in 
Catalonia for the period 2004-2007 (average population was N = 88,858). The 
database included individual information on morbidity, resource consumption, 
costs and activity records. The population was classified using the Clinical 
Risk Groups (CRG) model. Future morbidity evolution was simulated under 
different assumptions using a stationary Markov chain. We obtained morbidity 
patterns for the lifetime and the distribution function of the random variable 
lifetime costs. Individual information on acute episodes, chronic conditions and 
multimorbidity patterns were included in the model.
RESULTS: The probability of having a specific health status in the future 
(healthy, acute process or different combinations of chronic illness) and the 
distribution function of healthcare costs for the individual lifetime were 
obtained for the sample population. The mean lifetime cost for women was 
€111,936, a third higher than for men, at €81,566 (all amounts calculated in 
2007 Euros). Healthy life expectancy at birth for females was 46.99, lower than 
for males (50.22). Females also spent 28.41 years of life suffering from some 
type of chronic disease, a longer period than men (21.9).
CONCLUSIONS: Future morbidity and whole population costs can be reasonably 
predicted, combining stochastic microsimulation with a morbidity classification 
system. Potential ways of efficiency arose by introducing a time perspective to 
chronic disease management.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-440
PMCID: PMC4016415
PMID: 24156613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. J Health Econ. 2013 Dec;32(6):1142-52. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2013.09.011.
Epub  2013 Oct 4.

Life expectancy and human capital: evidence from the international 
epidemiological transition.
