DOI: 10.1097/BCR.0b013e3182a36916
PMID: 24121806 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. AIDS Behav. 2014 Apr;18(4):697-705. doi: 10.1007/s10461-013-0641-7.

Cost-effectiveness of a package of interventions for expedited antiretroviral 
therapy initiation during pregnancy in Cape Town, South Africa.

Zulliger R, Black S, Holtgrave DR, Ciaranello AL, Bekker LG, Myer L.

Initiating antiretroviral therapy (ART) early in pregnancy is an important 
component of effective interventions to prevent the mother-to-child transmission 
of HIV (PMTCT). The rapid initiation of ART in pregnancy(RAP) program was a 
package of interventions to expedite ART initiation in pregnant women in Cape 
Town, South Africa. Retrospective cost-effectiveness, sensitivity and threshold 
analyses were conducted of the RAP program to determine the cost-utility 
thresholds for rapid initiation of ART in pregnancy. Costs were drawn from a 
detailed micro-costing of the program. The overall programmatic cost was US$880 
per woman and the base case cost-effectiveness ratio was US$1,160 per 
quality-adjusted lifeyear (QALY) saved. In threshold analyses, the RAP program 
remained cost-effective if mother-to-child transmission was reduced by C0.33 %; 
if C1.76 QALY were saved with each averted perinatal infection; or if 
RAP-related costs were under US$4,020 per woman. The package of rapid initiation 
services was very cost-effective, as compared to standard services in this 
setting. Threshold analyses demonstrated that the intervention required minimal 
reductions in perinatal infections in order to be cost-effective. Interventions 
for the rapid initiation of ART in pregnancy hold considerable potential as a 
cost-effective use of limited resources for PMTCT in sub-Saharan Africa.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-013-0641-7
PMCID: PMC3984926
PMID: 24122044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: For the remaining authors 
none were declared.


274. Cancer. 2014 Jan 1;120(1):134-41. doi: 10.1002/cncr.28408. Epub 2013 Oct 2.

Predicting life expectancy in patients with metastatic cancer receiving 
palliative radiotherapy: the TEACHH model.

Krishnan MS(1), Epstein-Peterson Z, Chen YH, Tseng YD, Wright AA, Temel JS, 
Catalano P, Balboni TA.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Radiation Oncology Program, Harvard Medical School, Massachusetts 
General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

Erratum in
    Cancer. 2019 Jul 1;125(13):2325.

BACKGROUND: Predicting life expectancy (LE) in patients with metastatic cancer 
who are receiving palliative therapies is a difficult task. The purpose of the 
current study was to develop a LE prediction model among patients receiving 
palliative radiotherapy (RT) that identifies those patients with short (< 3 
months) and long (> 1 year) LEs.
METHODS: The records of 862 patients with metastatic cancer receiving palliative 
RT at the Dana-Farber/Brigham and Women's Cancer Center between June 2008 and 
July 2011 were retrospectively reviewed. Cox proportional hazards models were 
used to evaluate established and potential clinical predictors of LE to 
construct a model predicting LE of < 3 months and > 1 year.
RESULTS: The median survival was 5.6 months. On multivariate analysis, factors 
found to be significantly associated with a shorter LE were cancer type (lung 
and other vs breast and prostate), older age (> 60 years vs ≤ 60 years), liver 
metastases, Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (2-4 vs 0-1), 
hospitalizations within 3 months before palliative RT (0 vs ≥ 1), and prior 
palliative chemotherapy courses (≥ 2 vs 0-1). Patients were divided into 3 
groups with distinct median survivals: group A (those with 0-1 risk factors), 
19.9 months (95% confidence interval [95% CI, 13.9 months-31.1 months]); group B 
(those with 2-4 risk factors), 5.0 months (95% CI, 4.3 months -5.6 months); and 
group C (those with 5-6 risk factors), 1.7 months (95% CI, 1.2 months-2.1 
months).
CONCLUSIONS: The TEACHH model (type of cancer, Eastern Cooperative Oncology 
Group performance status, age, prior palliative chemotherapy, prior 
hospitalizations, and hepatic metastases) divides patients receiving palliative 
RT into 3 distinct LE groups at clinically informative extremes of the LE 
spectrum. It holds promise to assist radiation oncologists in tailoring 
palliative therapies to a patient's LE.

© 2013 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28408
PMCID: PMC4447100
PMID: 24122413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: CONFLICT OF INTEREST DISCLOSURES The authors 
made no disclosures.


275. Laryngoscope. 2014 Jul;124(7):1579-84. doi: 10.1002/lary.24441. Epub 2014
Apr  22.

Adjuvant stereotactic body radiotherapy±cetuximab following salvage surgery in 
previously irradiated head and neck cancer.

Vargo JA(1), Kubicek GJ, Ferris RL, Duvvuri U, Johnson JT, Ohr J, Clump DA, 
Burton S, Heron DE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Pittsburgh Cancer Institute, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, U.S.A.

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: Locoregional recurrence remains the primary failure 
pattern following salvage surgery for previously irradiated head and neck 
cancer; randomized trials have suggested a complimentary role for adjuvant 
chemotherapy and conventional reirradiation at the expense of significant 
increases in toxicity. We aimed to identify if stereotactic body radiotherapy 
(SBRT) ± cetuximab improves tumor control while reducing treatment-related 
toxicity following salvage surgery.
STUDY DESIGN: Retrospective review (2005-2011) of 28 patients with high-risk 
features (positive surgical margins or extranodal extension) following 
macroscopic complete (R0/R1) salvage surgery treated with adjuvant 
SBRT±cetuximab.
METHODS: SBRT consisted of 40 to 44 Gy in five fractions over 1 to 2 weeks with 
concurrent cetuximab (n=7) administered at 400 mg/m2 day -7+250 mg/m2 days 0 and 
+8. Toxicity was physician recorded, and University of Washington Quality of 
Life Revised surveys were prospectively collected.
RESULTS: All patients received prior radiotherapy (median, 70 Gy; range, 54-99 
Gy) with a median reirradiation interval of 25 months (range, 6-156 months). At 
a median follow-up of 14 months (range, 2-69 months), the 1-year locoregional 
control, distant control, disease-free survival, and overall survival were 51%, 
90%, 49%, and 64%, respectively. Rates of acute and late severe (≥grade 3) 
toxicity were low at 0% and 8%, respectively. At a median follow-up survey time 
of 6 months, 56% of patients reported improved/stable overall quality-of-life 
scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Adjuvant SBRT±cetuximab following salvage surgery is well tolerated 
with acceptable oncologic outcomes and little toxicity. Future prospective 
trials should evaluate adjuvant SBRT±cetuximab versus a wait-and-see approach 
for recurrent head and neck cancers with high-risk features following salvage 
surgery.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4.

© 2013 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.24441
PMID: 24123056 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2014 Feb;30(2):88-95. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.2485.

The older patient with diabetes: a practical approach.

Yehuda AB(1), Zinger A, Durso S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicine C, Department of Medicine, Hadassah-Hebrew University 
Medical Center, Jerusalem, Israel.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus is very prevalent among persons aged 60-80 years old. 
This population is expected to increase in number and is characterized by the 
presence of comorbidities, long standing diabetes, frailty, high rate of 
cognitive impairment and limited life expectancy. These characteristics have a 
significant impact on diabetes and treatment among the elderly, much as diabetes 
predisposes to these conditions. In this article we will describe mechanisms 
that may lead to insulin resistance and diabetes among the elderly and also how 
these conditions contribute to the development of frailty and cognitive 
impairment. Hypoglycemia and it's consequences are important considerations when 
planning the treatment of diabetes. Treatment options in light of new goals and 
the danger of hypoglycemia will be detailed.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.2485
PMID: 24123811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Vasc Health Risk Manag. 2013;9:575-92. doi: 10.2147/VHRM.S50831. Epub 2013
Oct  7.

Comprehensive overview: efficacy, tolerability, and cost-effectiveness of 
irbesartan.

Gialama F(1), Maniadakis N.

Author information:
(1)Health Services Organisation and Management, National School of Public 
Health, Athens, Greece.

BACKGROUND: Hypertension represents a major health problem, affecting more than 
one billion adults worldwide. Irbesartan, an angiotensin II receptor blocker, is 
considered to be a highly effective treatment in the management of hypertension. 
The purpose of this review is to evaluate the efficacy, safety and tolerability 
profile, and cost-effectiveness of treatment with irbesartan in hypertension.
METHODS: A review of the literature was conducted using the electronic PubMed 
and Cochrane Library databases and the Health Economic Evaluations Database of 
search terms relating to irbesartan efficacy, tolerability, and 
cost-effectiveness, and the results were utilized.
RESULTS: Findings from the present analysis show that irbesartan either as 
monotherapy or in combination with other antihypertensive agents can achieve 
significant reductions in blood pressure, both systolic and diastolic, compared 
with alternative treatment options. Irbesartan was also found to have a 
renoprotective effect independent of its blood pressure-lowering in patients 
with type 2 diabetes and nephropathy. Furthermore, irbesartan demonstrated an 
excellent safety and tolerability profile, with either lower or equal adverse 
events compared with placebo and other alternative treatments. In terms of 
economic analyses, compared with other antihypertensive therapy alternatives, 
irbesartan was found to be a preferred option, that is less costly and more 
effective.
CONCLUSION: The evidence indicates that treating patients with hypertension 
alone or with type 2 diabetes and nephropathy using irbesartan can control 
hypertension, prolong life, and reduce costs in relation to existing 
alternatives.

DOI: 10.2147/VHRM.S50831
PMCID: PMC3794869
PMID: 24124375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Clin Epidemiol. 2013 Sep 26;5:387-96. doi: 10.2147/CLEP.S37069.

Tracking the progress of HIV: the impact of point-of-care tests on 
antiretroviral therapy.

Reid SD(1), Fidler SJ, Cooke GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, St Mary's Hospital, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.

It is now around 30 years since the discovery of HIV, the virus that causes 
AIDS. More than 70 million people have been infected in that time and around 35 
million have died. The majority of those currently living with HIV/AIDS are in 
low- and middle-income countries, with sub-Saharan Africa bearing a 
disproportionate burden of the global disease. In high-income countries, the 
introduction of antiretroviral therapy (ART) has drastically reduced the 
morbidity and mortality associated with HIV. Patients on ART are now predicted 
to have near-normal life expectancy and the role of treatment is increasingly 
recognized in preventing new infections. In low- and middle-income countries, 
treatment is now more widely available and around half of those who need ART are 
currently receiving it. Early diagnosis of HIV is essential if ART is to be 
optimally implemented. Lab-based diagnostics for screening, diagnosis, treatment 
initiation, and the monitoring of treatment efficacy are critical in managing 
the disease and reducing the number of new infections each year. The 
introduction of point-of-care HIV rapid tests has transformed the epidemic, 
particularly in low- and middle-income countries. For the first time, these 
point-of-care tests allow for the rapid identification of infected individuals 
outside the laboratory who can undergo counseling and treatment and, in the case 
of pregnant women, allow the timely initiation of ART to reduce the risk of 
vertical transmission. Although survival is markedly improved with ART even in 
the absence of laboratory monitoring, long-term management of people living with 
HIV on ART, and their partners, is essential to ensure successful viral 
suppression. The burden of disease in many resource-poor settings with high HIV 
prevalence has challenged the ability of local laboratories to effectively 
monitor those on ART. Diagnostics used to initiate and monitor treatment are now 
moving out of the laboratory and into the field. These new point-of-care tests 
for viral load and CD4 are poised to further transform the disease and shift the 
treatment paradigm in low- and middle-income countries.

DOI: 10.2147/CLEP.S37069
PMCID: PMC3794838
PMID: 24124392


279. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2013 Dec;14(17):2433-47. doi: 
10.1517/14656566.2013.847090. Epub 2013 Oct 14.

Octreotide for acromegaly treatment: a reappraisal.

Giustina A(1), Karamouzis I, Patelli I, Mazziotti G.

Author information:
(1)University of Brescia, Department of Clinical and Experimental Sciences , 
Brescia , Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Acromegaly is a rare disorder characterized by excess secretion of 
growth hormone (GH) generally caused by a pituitary macroadenoma and associated 
with reduced life expectancy if the disease is untreated. This article covers 
the recent available evidences published on octreotide , the first somatostatin 
analog introduced into clinical practice for the medical treatment of 
acromegaly.
AREAS COVERED: This article discusses i) pharmacology of somatostatin and 
octreotide; ii) biochemical effects of regular octreotide and long-acting 
repeatable formulation; iii) tumor shrinkage effects of octreotide in 
acromegaly; iv) impact of octreotide on acromegalic clinical manifestations and 
chronic complications; v) safety of octreotide and vi) place of octreotide in 
the guidelines for acromegaly treatment. Full-text articles in the English 
language were selected from a PubMed search spanning 1984 - 2013, for keywords 
including 'octreotide,' 'acromegaly,' 'GH,' 'IGF-I,' and 'tumor shrinkage.' 
Reference lists in selected papers were also used to broaden the search.
EXPERT OPINION: Octreotide is a mature drug with a consolidated favorable 
benefit versus risks profile in the treatment of acromegaly.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2013.847090
PMID: 24124691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Acta Oncol. 2014 Feb;53(2):201-8. doi: 10.3109/0284186X.2013.840740. Epub
2013  Oct 14.

Modelling the cost-effectiveness of adjuvant lapatinib for early-stage breast 
cancer.

Candon D(1), Healy J, Crown J.

Author information:
(1)School of Economics and Geary Institute, University College Dublin , Dublin , 
Ireland.

BACKGROUND: It has been shown in the NeoALTTO trial that a neoadjuvant regimen 
containing paclitaxel, lapatinib and trastuzumab is superior to regimens which 
include only one of the HER2 antagonists with paclitaxel. In light of these 
results, we modelled the potential cost-effectiveness of adjuvant lapatinib for 
patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We constructed a Markov state-transition model with three 
different health states: disease free, relapse, and death. We assumed an 18-week 
course of lapatinib was added to the TCH arm of the BCIRG 006 trial. Since no 
efficacy data are available for combining adjuvant lapatinib with trastuzumab, 
we ran the model assuming five different hypothetical hazard ratios for disease 
free survival when lapatinib is added to TCH (TCH was used as the control 
group). The hazard ratios were 0.9, 0.8, 0.7, 0.6, and 0.5. Outcomes are given 
in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Both costs and QALYs were discounted at 
the 4% rate. We calculated the cost per QALY from the perspective of the Irish 
health care system. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis and one-way sensitivity 
were performed and confidence intervals were bootstrapped.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for the five hazard 
ratios are €53 089/QALY, €27 893/QALY, €18 463/QALY, €13 527/QALY and €10 
490/QALY, respectively. Using the €45 000/QALY threshold, an adjuvant lapatinib 
regimen is cost-effective at the 0.8 hazard ratio. Adjuvant lapatinib becomes 
cost-effective at the 0.879 hazard ratio where the ICER is €44 825/QALY.
CONCLUSION: In the Irish setting, an adjuvant lapatinib regimen would be 
considered cost-effective for patients with HER2-positive early-stage breast 
cancer for four of the five hypothesised hazard ratios. Data from both adjuvant 
and neoadjuvant trials suggest that the hazard ratio required to achieve 
cost-effectiveness for adjuvant lapatinib is both possible and plausible.

DOI: 10.3109/0284186X.2013.840740
PMID: 24125103 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Exp Gerontol. 2013 Dec;48(12):1455-68. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.10.001.
Epub  2013 Oct 11.

Characterization of global gene expression during assurance of lifespan 
extension by caloric restriction in budding yeast.

Choi KM(1), Kwon YY, Lee CK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea 
University, Seoul 136-701, Republic of Korea.

Caloric restriction (CR) is the best-studied intervention known to delay aging 
and extend lifespan in evolutionarily distant organisms ranging from yeast to 
mammals in the laboratory. Although the effect of CR on lifespan extension has 
been investigated for nearly 80years, the molecular mechanisms of CR are still 
elusive. Consequently, it is important to understand the fundamental mechanisms 
of when and how lifespan is affected by CR. In this study, we first identified 
the time-windows during which CR assured cellular longevity by switching cells 
from culture media containing 2% or 0.5% glucose to water, which allows us to 
observe CR and non-calorically-restricted cells under the same conditions. We 
also constructed time-dependent gene expression profiles and selected 646 genes 
that showed significant changes and correlations with the lifespan-extending 
effect of CR. The positively correlated genes participated in transcriptional 
regulation, ribosomal RNA processing and nuclear genome stability, while the 
negatively correlated genes were involved in the regulation of several metabolic 
pathways, endoplasmic reticulum function, stress response and cell cycle 
progression. Furthermore, we discovered major upstream regulators of those 
significantly changed genes, including AZF1 (YOR113W), HSF1 (YGL073W) and XBP1 
(YIL101C). Deletions of two genes, AZF1 and XBP1 (HSF1 is essential and was thus 
not tested), were confirmed to lessen the lifespan extension mediated by CR. The 
absence of these genes in the tor1Δ and ras2Δ backgrounds did show 
non-overlapping effects with regard to CLS, suggesting differences between the 
CR mechanism for Tor and Ras signaling.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.10.001
PMID: 24126084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Actas Urol Esp. 2014 Jan-Feb;38(1):1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.acuro.2013.04.012.
Epub  2013 Oct 12.

Active surveillance for small renal masses diagnosed in elderly or comorbid 
patients: looking for the best treatment strategy.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Brunocilla E(1), Borghesi M(2), Schiavina R(1), Palmieri F(3), Pernetti R(3), 
Monti C(4), Martorana G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Bologna, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, 
Bologna, Italia.
(2)Department of Urology, University of Bologna, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, 
Bologna, Italia. Electronic address: mark.borghesi@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Urology, S. Maria delle Croci Hospital, Ravenna, Italia.
(4)Department of Radiology, M.F. Toniolo Hospital, Bologna, Italia.

INTRODUCTION: Aim of this study is to provide our results after long-term active 
surveillance (AS) protocol for small renal masses (SRMs), and to report the 
outcomes of patients who remained in AS compared to those who underwent delayed 
surgical intervention.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed our database of 58 patients 
diagnosed with 60 contrast enhancing SRMs suspicious for renal cell carcinoma 
(RCC). All patients had clinical and radiological follow-up every 6 months. We 
evaluated the differences between patients who remained on AS and those who 
underwent surgical delayed intervention.
RESULTS: The mean age was 75 years, the mean follow-up was 88.5 months. The 
median initial tumor size at presentation was 2.6cm, and the median estimated 
tumor volume was 8.7cm(3). The median linear growth rate of the cohort was 
0.7cm/year, and the median volumetric growth rate was 8.8 cm(3)/year. Death for 
metastatic disease occurred in 2 patients (3.4%). No correlation was found 
between initial tumor size and size growth rate. The mean linear and volumetric 
growth rates of the group of patients who underwent surgery was higher than in 
those who remained on surveillance (1.9 vs. 0.4cm/year and 16.1 vs. 4.6 
cm(3)/year, respectively; P<.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Most of SRMs demonstrate to have an indolent course and low 
metastatic potential. Malignant disease could have faster linear and volumetric 
growth rates, thus suggesting the need for a delayed surgical intervention. In 
properly selected patients with low life-expectancy, AS could be a reasonable 
option in the management of SRMs.

Copyright © 2013 AEU. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acuro.2013.04.012
PMID: 24126193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. Perspect Public Health. 2015 Mar;135(2):75-84. doi:
10.1177/1757913913500045.  Epub 2013 Oct 14.

A conceptual framework for managing modifiable risk factors for cardiovascular 
diseases in Fiji.

Witter T(1), Poudevigne M(2), Lambrick DM(3), Faulkner J(4), Lucero AA(4), Page 
R(3), Perry LG 3rd(5), Tarrant MA(6), Stoner L(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Sport and Exercise, Massey University, New Zealand 
trevorgwitter@gmail.com.
(2)Health & Fitness Management Program, Office of the Dean, Clayton State 
University, Morrow, GA, USA.
(3)Institute of Food, Nutrition and Human Health, Massey University, Wellington, 
New Zealand.
(4)School of Sport and Exercise, Massey University, Wellington, New Zealand.
(5)Western Carolina University, Cullowhee, NC, USA.
(6)Warnell School of Forestry, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, USA.

AIMS: The current review will look at modifiable lifestyle (physical inactivity, 
poor nutrition, risky alcohol behavior and cigarette smoking) and 
cardio-metabolic (obesity, diabetes mellitus, high cholesterol and high blood 
pressure) cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk factors among Indigenous-Fijian and 
Indo-Fijian subgroups. A framework for monitoring and managing these risk 
factors will be presented.
METHODS: National health surveys were identified where available. Electronic 
databases identified sources for filling missing data. The most relevant data 
were identified, organized and synthesized.
RESULTS: Compared to Indo-Fijians, Indigenous-Fijians have higher rates of 
obesity (17% vs 11%) and hypertension (21% vs 16%), but lower rates of diabetes 
mellitus (12% vs 21%) and high cholesterol (33% vs 39%). Indigenous-Fijians 
report higher rates of prescribed physical activity (25% vs 21%), but poorer 
recommended vegetable intake (48% vs 56%), greater risky alcohol behavior (17% 
vs 15%) and a much greater prevalence of cigarette smoking (45% vs 24%). Both 
Indigenous-Fijians and Indo-Fijians report a low prevalence of recommended fruit 
intake (17% vs 15%).
CONCLUSIONS: Fiji is progressing through demographic and epidemiological 
transitions, including a decline in infectious diseases and improved life 
expectancy. However, in concert with other developing nations, 'modernization' 
is accompanied by increased mortality from non-communicable diseases, with CVD 
being the most prevalent. This transition has been associated with changes to 
socio-cultural aspects of Fiji, including poor lifestyle choices that may 
contribute to a cluster of cardio-metabolic conditions which precede CVD.

© Royal Society for Public Health 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1757913913500045
PMID: 24126462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


284. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2013 Dec;54(6):679-84.

Endovascular first as "preliminary approach" for critical limb ischemia and 
diabetic foot.

Setacci C(1), Sirignano P, Galzerano G, Mazzitelli G, Sauro L, de Donato G, 
Benevento D, Cappelli A, Setacci F.

Author information:
(1)Vascular and Endovascular Surgery Unit, Department of Medicine, Surgery and 
Neuroscience University of Siena, Siena, Italy - setacci@unisi.it.

The treatment of the critical limb ischemia (CLI) and diabetic foot (DB) is 
still object of discussion and the gold standard for revascularization has not 
yet been identified. In these two decades the introduction of endovascular 
procedures had a large impact on the surgical revascularization and were added 
to the practice of vascular surgeons in patients who cannot be candidates for a 
bypass. This may be due to significant comorbidities, a reduced life expectancy, 
infection or gangrene in the possible sites of distal anastomoses, the 
unavailability of suitable veins, or the absence of an adequate "landing zone" 
for the distal part of the bypass. Various studies have evaluated the role of 
PTA in DF and CLI that resulted favourable in terms of feasibility, technical 
efficacy, the reduced number of complications, and limb salvage rates. Anyway, 
long-term patency is better after bypass surgery than after angioplasty, which 
is burdened by a high restenosis rate. In our experience we tried to practice 
endovascular approach as a first choice. If the procedure cannot be concluded 
safely, we continue the intervention surgically or use a hybrid approach. The 
endovascular-first strategy seems to be the future regardless of comorbidity of 
the patient and the degree of pathology. The vascular surgeon remains the only 
specialist that can decide the correct intervention without pressure or been 
forced and, last but not least, the only one who can independently perform 
hybrid interventions.

PMID: 24126506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2013 Dec;54(6):719-27.

Open surgery for chronic limb ischemia: a review.

Ricco JB(1), Thanh Phong L, Belmonte R, Schneider F, Valagier A, Illuminati G, 
Regnault De La Mothe G.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Department, Jean Bernard Hospital University of Poitiers, 
Poitiers, France - jeanbaptistericco@gmail.com.

This review considers the role of the different revascularization strategies in 
patients with chronic limb ischemia (CLI) and reveals that clinical evidence 
guiding therapeutic decision-making in CLI is poor and only careful basic 
recommendations can be made. For diffuse aortoiliac disease with occlusion of 
the aorta, aortobifemoral bypass remains the best option if the patient is fit 
for open surgery. Unilateral iliac occlusion should be treated by primary 
stenting, but an iliofemoral bypass may be the best option when the disease 
extends down to the common and deep femoral arteries. For infrainguinal 
revascularisation, bypass using the saphenous vein remains the best option for 
patients with occlusion of the superficial femoral artery >25 cm and for 
patients with multiple occlusions of the infrapopliteal arteries. In the absence 
of leg veins, arm veins should be used. Prosthetic grafts are the last option. 
Endovascular techniques are recommended in patients with short arterial lesions 
and limited life expectancy <2 years. Finally some patients with CLI are best 
treated by primary amputation. In conclusion, this review demonstrates that 
neither an endo- first nor a bypass-first attitude is appropriate in patients 
with CLI and suggests that these patients should be cared for by specialists in 
a multidisciplinary center in order to preserve their life and limbs, to conduct 
clinical trials and to control costs.

PMID: 24126509 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2013 Dec;54(6):755-62.

The diabetic foot: a review.

Ricco JB(1), Thanh Phong L, Schneider F, Illuminati G, Belmonte R, Valagier A, 
Régnault De La Mothe G.

Author information:
(1)Vascular Surgery Department, Jean Bernard Hospital University of Poitiers, 
Poitiers, France - jeanbaptistericco@gmail.com.

Diabetic foot ulceration (DFU) is among the most frequent complications of 
diabetes. Neuropathy and ischaemia are the initiating factors and infection is 
mostly a consequence. We have shown in this review that any DFU should be 
considered to have vascular impairment. DFU will generally heal if the toe 
pressure is >55 mmHg and a transcutaneous oxygen pressure (TcPO2) <30 mmHg has 
been considered to predict that a diabetic ulcer may not heal. The decision to 
intervene is complex and made according to the symptoms and clinical ﬁndings. If 
both an endovascular and a bypass procedure are possible with an equal outcome 
to be expected, endovascular treatments should be preferred. Primary and 
secondary mid-term patency rates are better after bypass, but there is no 
difference in limb salvage. Bedridden patients with poor life expectancy and a 
non-revascularisable leg are indications for performing a major amputation. A 
deep infection is the immediate cause of amputation in 25% to 50% of diabetic 
patients. Patients with uncontrolled abscess, bone or joint involvement, 
gangrene, or necrotising fasciitis have a "foot-at risk" and need prompt 
surgical intervention with debridement and revascularisation. As demonstrated in 
this review, foot ulcer in diabetic is associated with high mortality and 
morbidity. Early referral, non-invasive vascular testing, imaging and 
intervention are crucial to improve DFU healing and to prevent amputation. 
Diabetics are eight to twenty-four times more likely than non-diabetics to have 
a lower limb amputation and it has been suggested that a large part of those 
amputations could be avoided by an early diagnosis and a multidisciplinary 
approach.

PMID: 24126512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. Med Sci Sports Exerc. 2014;46(5):963-72. doi: 10.1249/MSS.0000000000000188.

Longer electromechanical delay impairs hamstrings explosive force versus 
quadriceps.

Hannah R(1), Minshull C, Smith SL, Folland JP.

Author information:
(1)1Sport, Health and Performance Enhancement (SHAPE) Research Group, School of 
Science and Technology, Nottingham Trent University, Nottingham, UNITED KINGDOM; 
2Sobell Department of Motor Neuroscience and Movement Disorders, Institute of 
Neurology, University College London, London, UNITED KINGDOM; 3School of Health 
and Life Sciences, Glasgow Caledonian University, Glasgow, UNITED KINGDOM; and 
4School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences, Loughborough University, 
Loughborough, UNITED KINGDOM.

INTRODUCTION: Explosive neuromuscular performance refers to the ability to 
rapidly increase force in response to neuromuscular activation. The lower 
explosive force production of the hamstrings relative to the quadriceps could 
compromise knee joint stability and increase the risk of anterior cruciate 
ligament injury. However, the time course of the rise in explosive force of the 
hamstrings and quadriceps from their initial activation, and thus the explosive 
hamstrings-to-quadriceps (H/Q) force ratio, has not been documented.
METHODS: The neuromuscular performance of 20 untrained males was assessed during 
a series of isometric knee flexion and extension contractions, with force and 
surface EMG of the hamstrings and quadriceps recorded during explosive and 
maximum voluntary contractions. Hamstrings force was expressed relative to 
quadriceps force to produce hamstring-to-quadriceps ratios of explosive H/Q 
force and H/Q maximum voluntary force. For the explosive contractions, agonist 
electromechanical delay (EMD), agonist and antagonist neural activation were 
assessed.
RESULTS: The quadriceps was 79% stronger than the hamstrings, but quadriceps 
explosive force was up to 480% greater than the hamstrings from 25 to 50 ms 
after first activation. Consequently, the explosive H/Q force ratio was very low 
at 25 and 50 ms (0%-17%) and significantly different from H/Q maximum voluntary 
force ratio (56%). Hamstrings EMD was 95% greater than quadriceps EMD (44.0 vs 
22.6 ms), resulting in a 21-ms later onset of force in the hamstrings that 
appeared to explain the low explosive H/Q force ratio in the early phase of 
activation.
CONCLUSIONS: Prolonged hamstrings EMD appears to impair early phase (0-50 ms) 
explosive force production relative to the quadriceps and may render the knee 
unstable and prone to anterior cruciate ligament injury during this period.

DOI: 10.1249/MSS.0000000000000188
PMID: 24126965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. J Clin Sleep Med. 2013 Oct 15;9(10):1023-9. doi: 10.5664/jcsm.3074.

Medicare long-term CPAP coverage policy: a cost-utility analysis.

Billings ME(1), Kapur VK.

Author information:
(1)UW Medicine Sleep Center, University of Washington, Seattle, WA.

STUDY OBJECTIVES: CPAP is an effective treatment for OSA that may reduce health 
care utilization and costs. Medicare currently reimburses the costs of long-term 
CPAP therapy only if the patient is adherent during a 90-day trial. If not, 
Medicare requires a repeat polysomnogram (PSG) and another trial which seems 
empirically not cost-effective. We modeled the cost-effectiveness of current 
Medicare policy compared to an alternative policy (clinic-only) without the 
adherence criterion and repeat PSG.
DESIGN: Cost-utility and cost-effectiveness analysis.
SETTING: U.S. Medicare Population.
PATIENTS OR PARTICIPANTS: N/A.
INTERVENTIONS: N/A.
MEASUREMENTS AND RESULTS: We created a decision tree modeling (1) clinic only 
follow-up vs. (2) current Medicare policy. Costs were assigned based on Medicare 
reimbursement rates in 2012. Sensitivity analyses were conducted to test our 
assumptions. We estimated cumulative costs, overall adherence, and QALY gained 
for a 5-year time horizon from the perspective of Medicare as the payer. Current 
Medicare policy is more costly than the clinic-only policy but has higher net 
adherence and improved utility. Current Medicare policy compared to clinic-only 
policy costs $30,544 more per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Current CMS policy promotes early identification of those more 
likely to adhere to CPAP therapy by requiring strict adherence standards. The 
policy effect is to deny coverage to those unlikely to use CPAP long-term and 
prevent wasted resources. Future studies are needed to measure long-term 
adherence in an elderly population with and without current adherence 
requirements to verify the cost-effectiveness of a policy change.

DOI: 10.5664/jcsm.3074
PMCID: PMC3778173
PMID: 24127146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Oct 29;110(44):17987-92. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1315647110. Epub 2013 Oct 14.

DNA-uptake machinery of naturally competent Vibrio cholerae.

Seitz P(1), Blokesch M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Microbiology, Global Health Institute, School of Life 
Sciences, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology Lausanne (École Polytechnique 
Fédérale de Lausanne), CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Microbiol. 2013 Dec;11(12):820-1.

Natural competence for transformation is a mode of horizontal gene transfer that 
is commonly used by bacteria to take up DNA from their environment. As part of 
this developmental program, so-called competence genes, which encode the 
components of a DNA-uptake machinery, are expressed. Several models have been 
proposed for the DNA-uptake complexes of competent bacteria, and most include a 
type IV (pseudo)pilus as a core component. However, cell-biology-based 
approaches to visualizing competence proteins have so far been restricted to 
Gram-positive bacteria. Here, we report the visualization of a 
competence-induced pilus in the Gram-negative bacterium Vibrio cholerae. We show 
that piliated cells mostly contain a single pilus that is not biased toward a 
polar localization and that this pilus colocalizes with the outer membrane 
secretin PilQ. PilQ, on the other hand, forms several foci around the cell and 
occasionally colocalizes with the dynamic cytoplasmic-traffic ATPase PilB, which 
is required for pilus extension. We also determined the minimum competence 
regulon of V. cholerae, which includes at least 19 genes. Bacteria with 
mutations in those genes were characterized with respect to the presence of 
surface-exposed pili, DNA uptake, and natural transformability. Based on these 
phenotypes, we propose that DNA uptake in naturally competent V. cholerae cells 
occurs in at least two steps: a pilus-dependent translocation of the incoming 
DNA across the outer membrane and a pilus-independent shuttling of the DNA 
through the periplasm and into the cytoplasm.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1315647110
PMCID: PMC3816411
PMID: 24127573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


290. HIV Med. 2014 Mar;15(3):175-81. doi: 10.1111/hiv.12098. Epub 2013 Oct 16.

Screening colonoscopy in HIV-infected patients: high rates of mucosal 
abnormalities in a German HIV-infected cohort.

Kasapovic A(1), Boesecke C, Schwarze-Zander C, Anadol E, Vogel M, Hippe V, 
Schmitz V, Rockstroh JK, Wasmuth JC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine I, Bonn University Hospital, Bonn, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: Because of the improved life expectancy provided by successful 
antiretroviral combination therapy, preventive health measures in HIV-infected 
patients have assumed increasing importance. To date, no data exist on rates of 
mucosal abnormalities detected by screening colonoscopy in > 50-year-old 
HIV-infected patients in Germany. The aim of this study was to obtain such data.
METHODS: A screening colonoscopy was offered to 159 HIV-infected patients 
(age > 50 years) who presented for HIV standard of care visits at the infectious 
diseases out-patient clinic at the university hospital in Bonn over a 1-year 
period from February 2010. Pearson's χ(2) test, Fisher's exact test and the 
Mann-Whitney U-test were used for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: Fifty-one patients (32.1%) had undergone a screening colonoscopy in the 
past 10 years, and 45 patients (28.3%) were eventually screened in the 
observation period. The median age of the 96 screened patients (86% male and 14% 
female) was 58 years [interquartile range (IQR) 54-64 years]. Overall, 
endoscopic abnormalities were found in 61% of patients. Histological examination 
showed tubular adenomas in 21.9% of patients, tubulovillous adenomas in 3.1% and 
serrated adenomas in 1%. Hyperplastic polyps were found in 15.6% of patients, a 
nonspecific colitis in 16.7% and diverticulosis in 12.5%. In four cases there 
was even an early-stage carcinoma (two anal, one rectal and one colon cancer). 
In univariate analysis, no significant differences with regard to immune status, 
highly active antiretroviral therapy, family history, personal risk factors or 
comedication were found between patients with dysplastic and normal mucosas.
CONCLUSIONS: The high acceptance rate of screening colonoscopy and the in 
comparison with the HIV-negative population comparably higher rate of 
abnormalities in this cohort of HIV-infected patients justify enhanced 
implementation of screening colonoscopy in clinical practice.

© 2013 British HIV Association.

DOI: 10.1111/hiv.12098
PMID: 24127641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


291. J Appl Microbiol. 2014 Feb;116(2):447-63. doi: 10.1111/jam.12368. Epub 2013
Nov  5.

Quantification of microbial risks to human health caused by waterborne viruses 
and bacteria in an urban slum.

Katukiza AY(1)(2), Ronteltap M(1), van der Steen P(1), Foppen JW(3), Lens PN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Engineering and Water Technology, UNESCO-IHE 
Institute for Water Education, Delft, the Netherlands.
(2)Department of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Makerere University, 
Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Department of Water Science and Engineering, UNESCO-IHE Institute for Water 
Education, Delft, the Netherlands.

AIMS: To determine the magnitude of microbial risks from waterborne viruses and 
bacteria in Bwaise III in Kampala (Uganda), a typical slum in Sub-Saharan 
Africa.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A quantitative microbial risk assessment (QMRA) was carried 
out to determine the magnitude of microbial risks from waterborne pathogens 
through various exposure pathways in Bwaise III in Kampala (Uganda). This was 
based on the concentration of Escherichia coli O157:H7, Salmonella spp., 
rotavirus (RV) and human adenoviruses F and G (HAdV) in spring water, tap water, 
surface water, grey water and contaminated soil samples. The total disease 
burden was 680 disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) per 1000 persons per year. 
The highest disease burden contribution was caused by exposure to surface water 
open drainage channels (39%) followed by exposure to grey water in tertiary 
drains (24%), storage containers (22%), unprotected springs (8%), contaminated 
soil (7%) and tap water (0.02%). The highest percentage of the mean estimated 
infections was caused by E. coli O157:H7 (41%) followed by HAdV (32%), RV (20%) 
and Salmonella spp. (7%). In addition, the highest infection risk was 1 caused 
by HAdV in surface water at the slum outlet, while the lowest infection risk was 
2.71 × 10(-6) caused by E. coli O157:H7 in tap water.
CONCLUSIONS: The results show that the slum environment is polluted, and the 
disease burden from each of the exposure routes in Bwaise III slum, with the 
exception of tap water, was much higher than the WHO reference level of 
tolerable risk of 1 × 10(-6) DALYs per person per year.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: The findings of this study provide 
guidance to governments, local authorities and nongovernment organizations in 
making decisions on measures to reduce infection risk and the disease burden by 
10(2) to 10(5) depending on the source of exposure to achieve the desired health 
impacts. The infection risk may be reduced by sustainable management of human 
excreta and grey water, coupled with risk communication during hygiene awareness 
campaigns at household and community level. The data also provide a basis to 
make strategic investments to improve sanitary conditions in urban slums.

© 2013 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/jam.12368
PMID: 24127653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Biometrics. 2013 Dec;69(4):820-9. doi: 10.1111/biom.12084. Epub 2013 Oct 15.

Assessing the causal effect of organ transplantation on the distribution of 
residual lifetime.

Vock DM(1), Tsiatis AA, Davidian M, Laber EB, Tsuang WM, Finlen Copeland CA, 
Palmer SM.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biostatistics, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minnesota 
55455, U.S.A.

Because the number of patients waiting for organ transplants exceeds the number 
of organs available, a better understanding of how transplantation affects the 
distribution of residual lifetime is needed to improve organ allocation. 
However, there has been little work to assess the survival benefit of 
transplantation from a causal perspective. Previous methods developed to 
estimate the causal effects of treatment in the presence of time-varying 
confounders have assumed that treatment assignment was independent across 
patients, which is not true for organ transplantation. We develop a version of 
G-estimation that accounts for the fact that treatment assignment is not 
independent across individuals to estimate the parameters of a structural nested 
failure time model. We derive the asymptotic properties of our estimator and 
confirm through simulation studies that our method leads to valid inference of 
the effect of transplantation on the distribution of residual lifetime. We 
demonstrate our method on the survival benefit of lung transplantation using 
data from the United Network for Organ Sharing.

© 2013, The International Biometric Society.

DOI: 10.1111/biom.12084
PMCID: PMC3865173
PMID: 24128090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. Farm Hosp. 2013 Sep-Oct;37(5):358-65. doi: 10.7399/FH.2013.37.5.736.

[Efficiency of initiation with ambrisentan versus bosentan in the treatment of 
pulmonary arterial hypertension].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Villa G, Morano R, Román A, Gil J.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the efficiency of initiation with endothelin receptor 
antagonists, ambrisentan or bosentan, followed by sequential combination with 
phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors and prostanoids in the treatment of pulmonary 
arterial hypertension, from the Spanish National Health System perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed based on the four New York Heart 
Association functional classes. A panel of three experts reached a consensus on 
patient management based on clinical practice. Patients revised their treatment 
every 12 weeks, based on their health status and previous medication records. 
Pharmacological treatment costs and costs associated with very frequent adverse 
events (AE) were considered in a horizon of 60 weeks. Outcomes were measured in 
qualityadjusted life years (QALY). A probabilistic sensitivity analysis was 
performed.
RESULTS: No clinically relevant differences in QALY per-patient and year were 
found for initiation with ambrisentan and bosentan: 0.6853 and 0.6902, 
respectively. Initiation with ambrisentan resulted in lower pharmacological 
treatment and AE management costs: ?35,550 and ?117 versus ?40,224 and ?171. In 
the sensitivity analysis, initiation with ambrisentan resulted in a negative 
significant cost difference: ?-4,982; CI95%[?- 8,014; ?-2,500]; while no 
significant differences in QALY were found: -0.0044; CI95%[-0.0189; 0.0101].
CONCLUSIONS: Initiation with ambrisentan followed by sequential combination with 
phosphodiesterase-5 inhibitors and prostanoids yields comparable outcomes at 
lower costs than initiation with bosentan.

Publisher: Objetivo: Se pretende evaluar la eficiencia del tratamiento 
secuencial de combinación de la hipertensión arterial pulmonar iniciado con 
antagonistas del receptor de la endotelina, ambrisentan o bosentan, seguido de 
inhibidores de la fosfodiesterasa- 5 y prostanoides, desde la perspectiva del 
Sistema Nacional de Salud. Métodos: Se desarrolló un modelo de Markov basado en 
las cuatro clases funcionales de la New York Heart Association. Un panel de tres 
expertos alcanzó un consenso sobre el manejo del paciente basado en la práctica 
clínica. Los pacientes revisaron su tratamiento cada 12 semanas, en función de 
su estado de salud y de la medicación recibida previamente. Se incluyeron costes 
farmacológicos y costes asociados al manejo de eventos adversos (EA) muy 
frecuentes, en un horizonte de 60 semanas. Los resultados se expresaron en 
términos de los años de vida ajustados por calidad (AVAC). Se realizó un 
análisis de sensibilidad probabilístico. Resultados: No se encontraron 
diferencias clínicamente relevantes en los AVAC por paciente y año para el 
inicio con ambrisentan y bosentan: 0,6853 y 0,6902, respectivamente. El inicio 
con ambrisentan resultó en un coste farmacológico y asociado al manejo de EA 
menor: 35.550 ??y 117 ??frente a 40.224 ??y 171 ?. En el análisis de 
sensibilidad, el inicio con ambrisentan presentó una diferencia de costes 
totales negativa y significativa: -4.982 ?; IC95%[-8.014 ?; -2.500 ?]; mientras 
que no se detectaron diferencias significativas en los AVAC: -0,0044; 
IC95%[-0,0189; 0,0101]. Conclusiones: El tratamiento secuencial de combinación 
de la HAP iniciado con ambrisentan, seguido de inhibidores de la 
fosfodiesterasa- 5 y prostanoides, proporciona resultados en salud comparables y 
menores costes que el tratamiento iniciado con bosentan.

Copyright © 2013 SEFH. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7399/FH.2013.37.5.736
PMID: 24128097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. Expert Opin Med Diagn. 2013 Nov;7(6):589-99. doi:
10.1517/17530059.2013.846322.  Epub 2013 Oct 16.

Difficulties and barriers in diagnosing Fabry disease: what can be learnt from 
the literature?

Thomas AS(1), Mehta AB.

Author information:
(1)Royal Free Hospital and University College London Medical School, Lysosomal 
Storage Disorders Unit , London NW3 2QG , UK.

INTRODUCTION: Fabry disease (FD) is an X-linked disorder of glycosphingolipid 
metabolism caused by deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme alpha galactosidase A. 
Clinical features include neuropathic pain, rash, proteinuria renal failure, 
stroke and cardiomyopathy accompanied by a reduced life expectancy. Patients 
report an average delay of > 10 years between symptom onset and diagnosis. 
Newborn screening studies suggest a much higher prevalence than that found on 
population studies supporting the notion that FD is under-diagnosed.
AREAS COVERED: Four key challenges in the diagnosis of FD and strategies to 
overcome them are discussed. The clinical features of FD are highly 
heterogeneous resulting in patients presenting to many different specialists, 
often with non-specific symptoms with a wide differential diagnosis. The 
pathophysiological mechanisms underlying this are poorly understood and the 
prediction of pathogenicity on the basis of gene mutation analysis can be 
problematic. While the availability of treatment adds an impetus to make the 
correct diagnosis, our understanding of when and if treatment may be required in 
a specific individual is incomplete.
EXPERT OPINION: Improving diagnostic rates of FD requires a greater awareness of 
the disorder among physicians to whom patients may present, new strategies to 
determine the pathogenicity of novel mutations and a greater understanding of 
the natural history of FD across the phenotypic spectrum. Collaborative clinical 
and laboratory research is vital in furthering knowledge of the underlying 
mechanisms of this disorder and how they may be impacted by current or future 
therapies.

DOI: 10.1517/17530059.2013.846322
PMID: 24128193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. J Anim Ecol. 2014 Mar;83(2):375-87. doi: 10.1111/1365-2656.12140. Epub 2013
Oct  15.

Demographic responses of a site-faithful and territorial predator to its 
fluctuating prey: long-tailed skuas and arctic lemmings.

Barraquand F(1), Høye TT(2)(3), Henden JA(1), Yoccoz NG(1), Gilg O(4)(5), 
Schmidt NM(2)(6), Sittler B(5)(7), Ims RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Arctic and Marine Biology, University of Tromsø, Tromsø, 9037, 
Norway.
(2)Arctic Research Centre, Aarhus University, Aarhus, DK-8000, Denmark.
(3)Department of Bioscience, Aarhus University, Rønde, DK-8410, Denmark.
(4)Laboratoire Biogéosciences, UMR CNRS 5561, Université de Bourgogne, Dijon, 
21000, France.
(5)Groupe de Recherche en Ecologie Arctique, Francheville, 21440, France.
(6)Department of Bioscience, Aarhus University, Roskilde, DK-4000, Denmark.
(7)Institut für Landespflege, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, 79106, Germany.

Environmental variability, through interannual variation in food availability or 
climatic variables, is usually detrimental to population growth. It can even 
select for constancy in key life-history traits, though some exceptions are 
known. Changes in the level of environmental variability are therefore important 
to predict population growth or life-history evolution. Recently, several cyclic 
vole and lemming populations have shown large dynamical changes that might 
affect the demography or life-histories of rodent predators. Skuas constitute an 
important case study among rodent predators, because of their strongly 
saturating breeding productivity (they lay only two eggs) and high degree of 
site fidelity, in which they differ from nomadic predators raising large broods 
in good rodent years. This suggests that they cannot capitalize on lemming peaks 
to the same extent as nomadic predators and might be more vulnerable to 
collapses of rodent cycles. We develop a model for the population dynamics of 
long-tailed skuas feeding on lemmings to assess the demographic consequences of 
such variable and non-stationary prey dynamics, based on data collected in NE 
Greenland. The model shows that populations of long-tailed skua sustain well 
changes in lemming dynamics, including temporary collapses (e.g. 10 years). A 
high floater-to-breeder ratio emerges from rigid territorial behaviour and a 
long-life expectancy, which buffers the impact of adult abundance's decrease on 
the population reproductive output. The size of the floater compartment is 
affected by changes in both mean and coefficient of variation of lemming 
densities (but not cycle amplitude and periodicity per se). In Greenland, the 
average lemming density is below the threshold density required for successful 
breeding (including during normally cyclic periods). Due to Jensen's inequality, 
skuas therefore benefit from lemming variability; a positive effect of 
environmental variation. Long-tailed skua populations are strongly adapted to 
fluctuating lemming populations, an instance of demographic lability in the 
reproduction rate. They are also little affected by poor lemming periods, if 
there are enough floaters, or juveniles disperse to neighbouring populations. 
The status of Greenland skua populations therefore strongly depends upon floater 
numbers and juvenile movements, which are not known. This reveals a need to 
intensify colour-ringing efforts on the long-tailed skua at a circumpolar scale.

© 2013 The Authors. Journal of Animal Ecology © 2013 British Ecological Society.
