
DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2013.202
PMID: 24010149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Biochemistry. 2013 Oct 1;52(39):6824-33. doi: 10.1021/bi400930g. Epub 2013
Sep  16.

Perturbing the water cavity surrounding the manganese cluster by mutating the 
residue D1-valine 185 has a strong effect on the water oxidation mechanism of 
photosystem II.

Dilbeck PL(1), Bao H, Neveu CL, Burnap RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, Oklahoma State University 
, 307 Life Sciences East, Stillwater, Oklahoma 74078, United States.

The active site of water oxidation in Photosystem II (PSII) is a Mn4CaO5 cluster 
that is located in a cavity between the D1 and CP43 protein subunits by which it 
is coordinated. The remainder of this cavity is filled with water molecules, 
which serve as a source of substrate and participate in poorly understood 
hydrogen bond networks that may modulate the function of the Mn4CaO5 cluster. 
These water molecules interact with the first and second sphere amino acid 
ligands to the Mn4CaO5 cluster and some water interacts directly with the 
Mn4CaO5 cluster. Here, the results of mutations to the amino acids that line the 
walls of several predicted cavities in the immediate vicinity of the Mn4CaO5 
cluster were examined in Synechocystis sp. PCC 6803. Of these, mutations of 
Val185 in the D1 subunit resulted in the most interesting functional 
alterations. The hydrophobic D1-Val185 occupies a location contacting water 
molecules that are positioned between the redox active tyrosine (YZ) and the 
putative proton gate residue, D1-Asp61, and at a position opposite the oxo 
bridge atom, O5, of the cluster. Mutations of the residue D1-Val185 were 
produced, with the intention that the substitute residue would extend into the 
water cavity that includes H2O molecules that interact with the Mn4CaO5 cluster, 
amino acid ligands of the Mn4CaO5 cluster, YZ and the chloride co-factor of 
PSII. Three of these mutants, D1-Val185Asn, D1-Val185Thr, and D1-Val185Phe, were 
able to accumulate significant levels of charge separating PSII and were 
characterized using polarographic and fluorescent techniques. Of the three 
substitutions, the phenylalanine substitution was the most severe with a 
complete inability to evolve oxygen, despite being able to accumulate PSII and 
to undergo stable charge separation. The threonine substitution had no apparent 
effect on oxygen evolution other than a 40% reduction in the steady state rate 
of O2 production compared to the case of wild-type Synechocystis , due to a 
reduced ability to accumulate PSII centers. The asparagine substitution produced 
the most complex phenotype with respect to O2 evolution. Although still able to 
evolve oxygen, D1-Val185Asn does so less efficiently than wild-type PSII, with a 
higher miss factor than that for the wild type. Most significantly, asparagine 
substitution dramatically retards the rate of O2 release and results in an 
extension of the kinetic lag phase prior to O2 release that is highly 
reminiscent of the effects of mutations produced at D1-Asp61. The observed 
effects of the D1-Val185Phe and D1-Val185Asn mutations may be due to alterations 
in the environment of nearby chloride co-factor of PSII and/or alterations in 
the hydrogen bond network, perhaps impeding the movement of water to a binding 
site on the metal cluster.

DOI: 10.1021/bi400930g
PMID: 24010490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Farm Hosp. 2013 Jul-Aug;37(4):307-16. doi: 10.7399/FH.2013.37.4.687.

Prasugrel compared to clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndrome 
undergoing percutenaous coronary intervention: a Spanish model-based cost 
effectiveness analysis.

Davies A, Sculpher M, Barrett A, Huete T, Sacristán JA, Dilla T.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the long-term cost-effectiveness of 12 months treatment of 
prasugrel compared to clopidogrel in patients with acute coronary syndrome (ACS) 
undergoing percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) in the Spanish health care 
system.
METHODS: A Markov state transition model was developed to estimate health 
outcomes, quality adjusted life years (QALYs), life years (LY), and costs over 
patients' lifetimes. Clinical inputs were based on an analysis of the 
TRITON-TIMI 38 clinical trial. Hospital readmissions captured during the trial 
in a sub-study of patients from eight countries (and subsequent 
re-hospitalisations modelled to accrue beyond the time horizon of the trial), 
were assigned to Spanish diagnosis-related group payment schedules to estimate 
hospitalisation costs.
RESULTS: Mean total treatment costs were ?11,427 and ?10,910 for prasugrel and 
clopidogrel respectively. The mean cost of the study drug was ?538 higher for 
prasugrel vs. clopidogrel, but rehospitalisation costs at 12 months were ?79 
lower for prasugrel due to reduced rates of revascularisation. Hospitalisation 
costs beyond 12 months were higher with prasugrel by ?55, due to longer life 
expectancy (+0.071 LY and +0.054 QALYs) associated with the decreased nonfatal 
myocardial infarction rate in the prasugrel group. The incremental cost per life 
year and QALY gained with prasugrel was ?7,198, and ?9,489, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Considering a willingness-to-pay threshold of ?30,000/QALY gained in 
the Spanish setting, prasugrel represents a cost-effective option in comparison 
with clopidogrel among patients with ACS undergoing PCI.

Publisher: Objetivo: Evaluar a largo plazo el coste-efectividad de 12 meses de 
tratamiento con prasugrel frente a clopidogrel en pacientes con síndrome 
coronario agudo (SCA) sometidos a intervención coronaria percutánea (ICP) desde 
la perspectiva del sistema nacional de salud español. Métodos: Se desarrolló un 
modelo de Markov de transición entre estados para estimar los resultados en 
salud, los años de vida ajustados por calidad (AVACs), los años de vida (AV) y 
los costes a lo largo de la vida de los pacientes. Los datos clínicos fueron 
obtenidos de un análisis del ensayo clínico TRITON-TIMI 38. Los reingresos 
hospitalarios registrados durante el ensayo en un subestudio de pacientes 
provenientes de ocho países, (y las subsiguientes rehospitalizaciones fueron 
modeladas para acumularse más alla del horizonte temporal del ensayo) fueron 
asignados a grupos relacionados con el diagnóstico españoles para estimar los 
costes de hospitalización. Resultados: Los costes medios totales del tratamiento 
con prasugrel y clopidogrel fueron 11.427 ??y 10.910 ?, respectivamente. El 
coste medio del fármaco fue 538 ??superior para prasugrel frente a clopidogrel, 
pero los costes de rehospitalización a los 12 meses fueron 79 ??menores para 
prasugrel debido a la reducción en las tasas de revascularización. Los costes de 
hospitalización más allá de los 12 meses fueron 55 ??superiores con prasugrel, 
debido a la mayor esperanza de vida (+0,071 AV y +0,054 AVACs) asociada a la 
reducción de la tasa de infartos de miocardio no mortales en el grupo de 
prasugrel. El coste-efectividad incremental por año de vida y AVAC ganado con 
prasugrel fue 7.198 ??y 9.489 ?, respectivamente. Conclusión: Considerando el 
umbral de disponibilidad a pagar de 30.000 ?/ AVAC para España, prasugrel 
representa una opción coste-efectiva en comparación con clopidogrel en pacientes 
con SCA sometidos a ICP.

Copyright © 2013 SEFH. Published by AULA MEDICA. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.7399/FH.2013.37.4.687
PMID: 24010692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Neural Dev. 2013 Sep 8;8:17. doi: 10.1186/1749-8104-8-17.

The intricate relationship between microtubules and their associated motor 
proteins during axon growth and maintenance.

Prokop A(1).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, Michael Smith Building, Oxford Road, Manchester M13 
9PT, UK. Andreas.Prokop@manchester.ac.uk.

The hallmarks of neurons are their slender axons which represent the longest 
cellular processes of animals and which act as the cables that electrically wire 
the brain, and the brain to the body. Axons extend along reproducible paths 
during development and regeneration, and they have to be maintained for the 
lifetime of an organism. Both axon extension and maintenance essentially depend 
on the microtubule (MT) cytoskeleton. For this, MTs organize into parallel 
bundles that are established through extension at the leading axon tips within 
growth cones, and these bundles then form the architectural backbones, as well 
as the highways for axonal transport essential for supply and intracellular 
communication. Axon transport over these enormous distances takes days or even 
weeks and is a substantial logistical challenge. It is performed by kinesins and 
dynein/dynactin, which are molecular motors that form close functional links to 
the MTs they walk along. The intricate machinery which regulates MT dynamics, 
axonal transport and the motors is essential for nervous system development and 
function, and its investigation has huge potential to bring urgently required 
progress in understanding the causes of many developmental and degenerative 
brain disorders. During the last years new explanations for the highly specific 
properties of axonal MTs and for their close functional links to motor proteins 
have emerged, and it has become increasingly clear that motors play active roles 
also in regulating axonal MT networks. Here, I will provide an overview of these 
new developments.

DOI: 10.1186/1749-8104-8-17
PMCID: PMC3846809
PMID: 24010872 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. BMC Public Health. 2013 Sep 8;13:812. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-812.

The contribution of health policy and care to income differences in life 
expectancy--a register based cohort study.

Manderbacka K(1), Peltonen R, Lumme S, Keskimäki I, Tarkiainen L, Martikainen P.

Author information:
(1)Service System Research Unit, National Institute for Health and Welfare, P,O, 
Box 30, Helsinki 00271, Finland. kristiina.manderbacka@thl.fi.

BACKGROUND: Growing mortality differences between socioeconomic groups have been 
reported in both Finland and elsewhere. While health behaviours and other 
lifestyle factors are important in contributing to health differences, some 
researchers have suggested that some of the mortality differences attributable 
to lifestyle factors could be preventable by health policy measures and that 
health care may play a role. It has also been suggested that its role is 
increasing due to better results in disease prevention, improved diagnostic 
tools and treatment methods. This study aimed to assess the impact of mortality 
amenable to health policy and health care on increasing income disparities in 
life expectancy in 1996-2007 in Finland.
METHODS: The study data were based on an 11% random sample of Finnish residents 
in 1988-2007 obtained from individually linked cause of death and population 
registries and an oversample of deaths. We examined differences in life 
expectancy at age 35 (e35) in Finland. We calculated e35 for periods 1996-97 and 
2006-07 by income decile and gender. Differences in life expectancies and change 
in them between the richest and the poorest deciles were decomposed by cause of 
death group.
RESULTS: Overall, the difference in e35 between the extreme income deciles was 
11.6 years among men and 4.2 years among women in 2006-07. Together, mortality 
amenable to health policy and care and ischaemic heart disease mortality 
contributed up to two thirds to socioeconomic differences. Socioeconomic 
differences increased from 1996-97 by 3.4 years among men and 1.7 years among 
women. The main contributor to changes was mortality amenable through health 
policy measures, mainly alcohol related mortality, but also conditions amenable 
through health care, ischaemic heart disease among men and other diseases 
contributed to the increase of the differences.
CONCLUSIONS: The results underline the importance of active health policy and 
health care measures in tackling socioeconomic health inequalities.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-812
PMCID: PMC3846484
PMID: 24010957 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Cell Metab. 2013 Sep 3;18(3):416-30. doi: 10.1016/j.cmet.2013.07.013.

Sirt1 extends life span and delays aging in mice through the regulation of Nk2 
homeobox 1 in the DMH and LH.

Satoh A(1), Brace CS, Rensing N, Cliften P, Wozniak DF, Herzog ED, Yamada KA, 
Imai S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Biology, Washington University School of 
Medicine, St. Louis, MO 63110, USA.

The mammalian Sir2 ortholog Sirt1 plays an important role in metabolic 
regulation. However, the role of Sirt1 in the regulation of aging and longevity 
is still controversial. Here we demonstrate that brain-specific 
Sirt1-overexpressing (BRASTO) transgenic mice show significant life span 
extension in both males and females, and aged BRASTO mice exhibit phenotypes 
consistent with a delay in aging. These phenotypes are mediated by enhanced 
neural activity specifically in the dorsomedial and lateral hypothalamic nuclei 
(DMH and LH, respectively), through increased orexin type 2 receptor (Ox2r) 
expression. We identified Nk2 homeobox 1 (Nkx2-1) as a partner of Sirt1 that 
upregulates Ox2r transcription and colocalizes with Sirt1 in the DMH and LH. 
DMH/LH-specific knockdown of Sirt1, Nkx2-1, or Ox2r and DMH-specific Sirt1 
overexpression further support the role of Sirt1/Nkx2-1/Ox2r-mediated signaling 
for longevity-associated phenotypes. Our findings indicate the importance of 
DMH/LH-predominant Sirt1 activity in the regulation of aging and longevity in 
mammals.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cmet.2013.07.013
PMCID: PMC3794712
PMID: 24011076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. BMC Musculoskelet Disord. 2013 Sep 8;14:263. doi: 10.1186/1471-2474-14-263.

Low dynamic muscle strength and its associations with fatigue, functional 
performance, and quality of life in premenopausal patients with systemic lupus 
erythematosus and low disease activity: a case-control study.

Balsamo S(1), da Mota LM, de Carvalho JF, Nascimento Dda C, Tibana RA, de 
Santana FS, Moreno RL, Gualano B, dos Santos-Neto L.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Program in Medical Sciences, School of Medicine, Universidade de 
Brasília (UnB), Brasília, Brazil. sandorbalsamo@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of the present study was to compare dynamic muscle 
strength, functional performance, fatigue, and quality of life in premenopausal 
systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) patients with low disease activity versus 
matched-healthy controls and to determine the association of dynamic muscle 
strength with fatigue, functional performance, and quality of life in SLE 
patients.
METHODS: We evaluated premenopausal (18-45 years) SLE patients with low disease 
activity (Systemic lupus erythematosus disease activity index [SLEDAI]: mean 1.5 
± 1.2). The control (n = 25) and patient (n = 25) groups were matched by age, 
physical characteristics, and the level of physical activities in daily life 
(International Physical Activity Questionnaire IPAQ). Both groups had not 
participated in regular exercise programs for at least six months prior to the 
study. Dynamic muscle strength was assessed by one-repetition maximum (1-RM) 
tests. Functional performance was assessed by the Timed Up and Go (TUG), in 30-s 
test a chair stand and arm curl using a 2-kg dumbbell and balance test, handgrip 
strength and a sit-and-reach flexibility test. Quality of life (SF-36) and 
fatigue were also measured.
RESULTS: The SLE patients showed significantly lower dynamic muscle strength in 
all exercises (leg press 25.63%, leg extension 11.19%, leg curl 15.71%, chest 
press 18.33%, lat pulldown 13.56%, 1-RM total load 18.12%, P < 0.001-0.02) 
compared to the controls. The SLE patients also had lower functional 
performance, greater fatigue and poorer quality of life. In addition, fatigue, 
SF-36 and functional performance accounted for 52% of the variance in dynamic 
muscle strength in the SLE patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Premenopausal SLE patients with low disease activity showed lower 
dynamic muscle strength, along with increased fatigue, reduced functional 
performance, and poorer quality of life when compared to matched controls.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2474-14-263
PMCID: PMC3847135
PMID: 24011222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Cancer Radiother. 2013 Oct;17(5-6):419-23. doi:
10.1016/j.canrad.2013.06.042.  Epub 2013 Sep 3.

[The role of whole brain radiotherapy with hippocampal-sparing].

[Article in French]

Truc G(1), Martin É, Mirjolet C, Chamois J, Petitfils A, Créhange G.

Author information:
(1)Département de radiothérapie, centre Georges-François-Leclerc, 1, rue du 
Professeur-Marion, 21079 Dijon cedex, France. Electronic address: gtruc@cgfl.fr.

Hippocampi plays a fundamental role in immediate or long-term memory and the 
spatial learning. This structure is rarely involved by metastasis and their 
irradiation is at the origin of some impairment of the neurocognitive function. 
Sparing hippocampi during whole brain radiation therapy becomes possible with 
volumetric modulated arc therapy (VMAT) or with helical tomotherapy. The 
delineation of the structures should be performed after coregistration of 
gadolinium-enhanced T1-weighted MR-images with the planning. The D40 to both 
hippocampi should not be greater than 7.3 Gy. Patients who are more likely to 
benefit from a hippocampal-sparing strategy must have a 6 months or longer life 
expectancy and a Karnosky index above 70. Hence, patients who are more likely to 
be deemed fit for this strategy are frequently patients with NSCLC, breast 
cancer, gastointestinal cancers or patients. Patients with small cell lung 
carcinoma who are selected for prophylactic cerebral irradiation should be also 
considered, as they are unfit for ablative treatments such as stereotactic 
radiotherapy or brain surgery. Moreover, brain metastasis located in the area 
surrounding the hippocampi are unlikely. To date, no randomized study is 
available to confirm these assumptions. Two on-going prospective trials (RTOG 
0933 and a French phase II trial) are currently investigating whether breast 
cancer patients with a single resected metastasis could benefit from the 
hippocampal-sparing strategy during whole brain radiotherapy.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier SAS.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2013.06.042
PMID: 24011597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2013 Sep;14(9):639-41. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2013.07.004.

AMDA-choosing wisely.

Vance J(1).

Author information:
(1)American Medical Directors Association, Columbia, MD. Electronic address: 
jvance@amda.com.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2013.07.004
PMID: 24011659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Dec 1;178(11):1591-9. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwt179. Epub
2013  Sep 7.

Obesity and mortality risk: new findings from body mass index trajectories.

Zheng H, Tumin D, Qian Z.

Little research has addressed the heterogeneity and mortality risk in body mass 
index (BMI) trajectories among older populations. Applying latent class 
trajectory models to 9,538 adults aged 51 to 77 years from the US Health and 
Retirement Study (1992-2008), we defined 6 latent BMI trajectories: normal 
weight downward, normal weight upward, overweight stable, overweight obesity, 
class I obese upward, and class II/III obese upward. Using survival analysis, we 
found that people in the overweight stable trajectory had the highest survival 
rate, followed by those in the overweight obesity, normal weight upward, class I 
obese upward, normal weight downward, and class II/III obese upward 
trajectories. The results were robust after controlling for baseline demographic 
and socioeconomic characteristics, smoking status, limitations in activities of 
daily living, a wide range of chronic illnesses, and self-rated health. Further 
analysis suggested that BMI trajectories were more predictive of mortality risk 
than was static BMI status. Using attributable risk analysis, we found that 
approximately 7.2% of deaths after 51 years of age among the 1931-1941 birth 
cohort were due to class I and class II/III obese upward trajectories. This 
suggests that trajectories of increasing obesity past 51 years of age pose a 
substantive threat to future gains in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwt179
PMCID: PMC3842899
PMID: 24013201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. J Aging Health. 2013 Dec;25(8):1299-312. doi: 10.1177/0898264313501388. Epub
 2013 Sep 6.

Gender differences in disability-free life expectancy at old ages in Bangladesh.

Tareque MI(1), Begum S, Saito Y.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: We examined gender differences in the prevalence of disability and 
Disability-free Life Expectancy (DFLE) for Bangladeshi older adults.
METHOD: We used data representing 4,189 elderly subjects aged 60 years and over 
from a nationally representative survey (Bangladesh's Household Income and 
Expenditure Survey-2010). The Sullivan method was used to compute DFLE.
RESULTS: Eyesight disability is prevalent among 28.94 and 36.47 men and women, 
respectively, and is the most prevalent type of disability in Bangladesh. Women 
have each disability and at least one disability in significantly higher 
percentages than men. At all ages, and in both numbers and proportion, women 
have longer life expectancy but shorter DFLE than men.
DISCUSSION: Attention should be given to the elderly, with special care devoted 
to elderly women. The findings of the current study have important implications 
for risk of disability and the need for, and use of, long-term care services.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264313501388
PMID: 24013854 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2013 Oct;39(7):794-802. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1354424.
Epub  2013 Sep 8.

Emerging issues on comprehensive hemophilia care: preventing, identifying, and 
monitoring age-related comorbidities.

Coppola A(1), Santoro C, Franchini M, Mannucci C, Mogavero S, Molinari AC, 
Schinco P, Tagliaferri A, Santoro RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine, Regional Reference Centre for Coagulation 
Disorders, Federico II University Hospital, Naples, Italy.

Life expectancy for persons with hemophilia (PWH) has considerably increased in 
the last decades as a direct result of the availability of modern therapies to 
control the clotting defect. Because their life expectancy now matches that of 
the general population, PWH are experiencing age-related comorbidities, such as, 
cardiovascular diseases, metabolic syndrome, renal diseases, sexuality issues, 
malignancies, and neurologic problems, that until recently have been rarely seen 
in this group of patients. In this article, we present a summary of the current 
knowledge on the aging PWH along with the clinical approaches that may be 
integrated into the routine comprehensive care of these patients for preventing, 
diagnosing, and monitoring age-related comorbidities. In general, patients with 
and without hemophilia should receive similar care, with close collaboration 
between the physician treating PWH and the specialty expert treating the 
comorbid disease.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1354424
PMID: 24014070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Emerg Med J. 2013 Oct;30(10):859. doi: 10.1136/emermed-2013-203100.2.

Towards evidence based emergency medicine: best BETs from the Manchester Royal 
Infirmary. BET 2: Is shift work bad for you?

Shives B(1), Riley B.

Author information:
(1)Grand Rapids Medical Education Program/Michigan State University, East 
Lansing, Michigan, USA.

A shortcut review was carried out to establish whether night shift working 
worsens health and shortens life. 127 papers were found using the reported 
searches, of which one systematic review presented the best evidence to answer 
the clinical question. The author, date and country of publication, patient 
group studied, study type, relevant outcomes, results and study weaknesses of 
this paper are tabulated. It is concluded that shift work is associated with an 
increased risk of vascular events but does not appear to have an effect on 
mortality.

DOI: 10.1136/emermed-2013-203100.2
PMID: 24014691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Open Orthop J. 2013 Aug 19;7:286-91. doi: 10.2174/1874325001307010286. 
eCollection 2013.

Quantification of vertebral involvement in metastatic spinal disease.

Botelho RV(1), de Oliveira MF, Rotta JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hospital do Servidor Público Estadual de São 
Paulo, IAMSPE, São Paulo, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: For patients with a solitary and well-delimitated spinal 
metastasis that resides inside the vertebral body, without vertebral canal 
invasion, and who are in good general health with a long life expectancy, en 
bloc spondylectomy/total vertebrectomy combined with the use of primary 
stabilizing instrumentation has been advocated. However, clinical experience 
suggests that these qualifying conditions occur very rarely.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this paper is to quantify the distribution of 
vertebral involvement in spinal metastases and determine the frequency with 
which patients can be considered candidates for radical surgery (en bloc 
spondylectomy).
METHODS: Consecutive patients were classified accordingly to Enneking's and 
Tomita's schemes for grading vertebral involvement of metastases.
RESULTS: Fifty-one (51) consecutive patients were evaluated. Eighty-three 
percent of patients presented with the involvement of multiple vertebral levels 
and/or spinal canal invasion.
CONCLUSION: Because of diffuse vertebral involvement of metastases, no patients 
in this sample were considered to be candidates for radical spondylectomy of 
vertebral metastasis.

DOI: 10.2174/1874325001307010286
PMCID: PMC3763689
PMID: 24015159


992. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 27;8(8):e72569. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072569. 
eCollection 2013.

The Receptor-Bound Guanylyl Cyclase DAF-11 Is the Mediator of Hydrogen 
Peroxide-Induced cGMP Increase in Caenorhabditis elegans [corrected].

Beckert U(1), Aw WY, Burhenne H, Försterling L, Kaever V, Timmons L, Seifert R.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Pharmacology, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2013;8(11). 
doi:10.1371/annotation/e9f85804-f0d5-41c8-8b0b-afcd9fe69fd6.

Adenosine 3', 5'-cyclic monophosphate (cAMP) and guanosine 3', 5'-cyclic 
monophosphate (cGMP) are well-studied second messengers that transmit 
extracellular signals into mammalian cells, with conserved functions in various 
other species such as Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans). cAMP is generated by 
adenylyl cyclases, and cGMP is generated by guanylyl cyclases, respectively. 
Studies using C. elegans have revealed additional roles for cGMP signaling in 
lifespan extension. For example, mutants lacking the function of a specific 
receptor-bound guanylyl cyclase, DAF-11, have an increased life expectancy. 
While the daf-11 phenotype has been attributed to reductions in intracellular 
cGMP concentrations, the actual content of cyclic nucleotides has not been 
biochemically determined in this system. Similar assumptions were made in 
studies using phosphodiesterase loss-of-function mutants or using adenylyl 
cyclase overexpressing mutants. In the present study, cyclic nucleotide 
regulation in C. elegans was studied by establishing a special nematode protocol 
for the simultaneous detection and quantitation of cyclic nucleotides. We also 
examined the influence of reactive oxygen species (ROS) on cyclic nucleotide 
metabolism and lifespan in C. elegans using highly specific HPLC-coupled tandem 
mass-spectrometry and behavioral assays. Here, we show that the relation between 
cGMP and survival is more complex than previously appreciated.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072569
PMCID: PMC3754915
PMID: 24015261 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have read the 
journal’s policy and have the following conflicts. The corresponding author 
Roland Seifert serves as Academic Editor for PLOS ONE. This does not alter the 
author’s adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


993. J Contin Educ Nurs. 2013 Sep;44(9):383. doi: 10.3928/00220124-20130823-31.

Maintaining perspective and balance.

Eltorai AE.

DOI: 10.3928/00220124-20130823-31
PMID: 24015791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Zhonghua Fu Chan Ke Za Zhi. 2013 May;48(5):358-63.

[A prospective study of adenosine triphosphate-tumor chemosensitivity assay 
directed chemotherapy in patients with recurrent ovarian cancer].

[Article in Chinese]

Gao YT(1), Wu LY, Zhang W, Zhao D, Li N, Tian HM, Wang XB, Li M, Sun YC, Li N, 
Li XG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Beijing, China.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the efficacy of adenosine triphosphate (ATP)-tumor 
chemosensitivity assay (TCA) directed chemotherapy in patients with recurrent 
epithelial ovarian cancer.
METHODS: From August 2010 to June 2012, recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer 
patients were prospectively enrollmented in Cancer Hospital, Peking Union 
Medical College,Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences.The entry criteria are as 
follows: (1) Histologically proven to be epithelial ovarian cancer. (2) Patients 
of recurrent ovarian cancer with bidimensionally measurable tumor, or ascitic or 
pleural fluid for testing. (3) Karnofsky performance status > 60. (4) A life 
expectancy of at least more than 6 months.According to patients desires, they 
were assigned into two groups: assay-directed therapy group and 
physician's-choice therapy group, patients' clinical and pathological 
characteristics, response rate to chemotherapy and progression-free survival 
(PFS) were compared between two groups.
RESULTS: A total of 113 patients with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer were 
prospectively enrollmented to assay-directed chemotherapy (n = 56) or 
physician's-choice chemotherapy (n = 57).There was no difference in median 
age,types of recurrence, surgical-pathological stage, pathological type, tumor 
grade, times of recurrence, residual disease at secondary cytoreductive surgery 
between assay-directed group and physician's-choice group. The overall response 
rate (ORR) and median PFS in the ATP-TCA group was 66% (37/56) and 7 months, 
while the ORR in the control group was 46% (26/57, P = 0.037), the median PFS 
was 4 months (P = 0.040). For platinum-resistant patients, the ORR between 
ATP-TCA directed chemotherapy 59% (16/27) and control group 25% (7/28) were 
significantly different (P = 0.010), and the median PFS between two groups were 
also significantly different (5 months and 2 months, respectively, P = 0.003).
CONCLUSION: ATP-TCA directed chemotherapy could improve ORR and PFS in patients 
with recurrent epithelial ovarian cancer, especially in platinum-resistant 
patients.

PMID: 24016479 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Int J Yoga Therap. 2013;23(1):17-23.

Yoga, vertebral fractures, and osteoporosis: research and recommendations.

Smith EN, Boser A.

BACKGROUND: Osteoporosis is characterized by decreased bone density that leaves 
bones fragile and highly susceptible to fracture. Globally, 1 in 3 women and 1 
in 5 men older than 50 will suffer from an osteoporotic fracture, and those 
individuals will experience a considerably higher risk of postfracture mortality 
than will the general population. Gentle, weight-bearing exercises such as yoga 
can help prevent or cease the progression of osteoporosis; however, there is 
insufficient data regarding which yoga poses present the least risk and are most 
beneficial to individuals with reduced bone density.
OBJECTIVES: Review the extant literature about the risks and benefits to the 
spine of particular forms of movement and consider recommendations relative to 
the practice of yoga.
METHODS: A review of the PubMed, Medline, and Cochrane databases was conducted 
that identified manuscripts published between 1966 and 2011 about topics related 
to osteoporosis and spinal movement.
CONCLUSIONS: Movements involving spinal flexion can increase risk for vertebral 
compression fractures; however, a combination of mild spinal flexion and 
extension may prove beneficial. Moderate, weight-bearing activities that 
strengthen the muscles supporting the spinal column, promote balance, improve 
posture, and enhance quality of life appear to be of greatest benefit. Ample 
evidence supports the importance of varied spinal movement for preserving the 
health and strength of the vertebral bodies. Exercise modifications suitable for 
high-risk individuals may be counterproductive for those at low risk for 
vertebral fractures. Yoga therapists are cautioned to not apply a 
one-size-fits-all approach when working with this population. Well-designed 
empirical studies are needed to further our understanding of which yoga poses 
present the least risk and are of greatest benefit to individuals with 
osteoporosis.

PMID: 24016820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. NeuroRehabilitation. 2013;33(4):555-63. doi: 10.3233/NRE-130990.

Does robot-assisted gait training ameliorate gait abnormalities in multiple 
sclerosis? A pilot randomized-control trial.

Straudi S(1), Benedetti MG(2), Venturini E(3), Manca M(3), Foti C(4), Basaglia 
N(3).

Author information:
(1)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Department, Ferrara University Hospital, 
Ferrara, Italy Doctoral Program in Advanced Sciences in Rehabilitation Medicine 
and Sport, Tor Vergata University, Rome, Italy.
(2)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Unit, Istituto Ortopedico Rizzoli, 
Bologna, Italy.
(3)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Department, Ferrara University Hospital, 
Ferrara, Italy.
(4)Doctoral Program in Advanced Sciences in Rehabilitation Medicine and Sport, 
Tor Vergata University, Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Gait disorders are common in multiple sclerosis (MS) and lead to a 
progressive reduction of function and quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: Test the effects of robot-assisted gait rehabilitation in MS subjects 
through a pilot randomized-controlled study.
METHODS: We enrolled MS subjects with Expanded Disability Status Scale scores 
within 4.5-6.5. The experimental group received 12 robot-assisted gait training 
sessions over 6 weeks. The control group received the same amount of 
conventional physiotherapy. Outcomes measures were both biomechanical assessment 
of gait, including kinematics and spatio-temporal parameters, and clinical test 
of walking endurance (six-minute walk test) and mobility (Up and Go Test).
RESULTS: 16 subjects (n = 8 experimental group, n = 8 control group) were 
included in the final analysis. At baseline the two groups were similar in all 
variables, except for step length. Data showed walking endurance, as well as 
spatio-temporal gait parameters improvements after robot-assisted gait training. 
Pelvic antiversion and reduced hip extension during terminal stance ameliorated 
after aforementioned intervention.
CONCLUSIONS: Robot-assisted gait training seems to be effective in increasing 
walking competency in MS subjects. Moreover, it could be helpful in restoring 
the kinematic of the hip and pelvis.

DOI: 10.3233/NRE-130990
PMID: 24018369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Chem Soc Rev. 2014 Feb 21;43(4):1014-28. doi: 10.1039/c3cs60207a. Epub 2013
Sep  10.

Breaking the concentration limit of optical single-molecule detection.

Holzmeister P(1), Acuna GP, Grohmann D, Tinnefeld P.

Author information:
(1)Braunschweig University of Technology, Institute for Physical & Theoretical 
Chemistry, Hans-Sommer-Str. 10, 38106 Braunschweig, Germany. 
p.tinnefeld@tu-bs.de.

Over the last decade, single-molecule detection has been successfully utilized 
in the life sciences and materials science. Yet, single-molecule measurements 
only yield meaningful results when working in a suitable, narrow concentration 
range. On the one hand, diffraction limits the minimal size of the observation 
volume in optical single-molecule measurements and consequently a sample must be 
adequately diluted so that only one molecule resides within the observation 
volume. On the other hand, at ultra-low concentrations relevant for sensing, the 
detection volume has to be increased in order to detect molecules in a 
reasonable timespan. This in turn results in the loss of an optimal 
signal-to-noise ratio necessary for single-molecule detection. This review 
discusses the requirements for effective single-molecule fluorescence 
applications, reflects on the motivation for the extension of the dynamic 
concentration range of single-molecule measurements and reviews various 
approaches that have been introduced recently to solve these issues. For the 
high-concentration limit, we identify four promising strategies including 
molecular confinement, optical observation volume reduction, temporal separation 
of signals and well-conceived experimental designs that specifically circumvent 
the high concentration limit. The low concentration limit is addressed by 
increasing the measurement speed, parallelization, signal amplification and 
preconcentration. The further development of these ideas will expand our 
possibilities to interrogate research questions with the clarity and precision 
provided only by the single-molecule approach.

DOI: 10.1039/c3cs60207a
PMID: 24019005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. J Cell Biol. 2013 Sep 16;202(6):917-35. doi: 10.1083/jcb.201302041. Epub
2013  Sep 9.

RCP-driven α5β1 recycling suppresses Rac and promotes RhoA activity via the 
RacGAP1-IQGAP1 complex.

Jacquemet G(1), Green DM, Bridgewater RE, von Kriegsheim A, Humphries MJ, Norman 
JC, Caswell PT.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Centre for Cell-Matrix Research, Faculty of Life Sciences, 
University of Manchester, M13 9PT Manchester, England, UK.

Inhibition of αvβ3 or expression of mutant p53 promotes invasion into 
fibronectin (FN)-containing extracellular matrix (ECM) by enhancing Rab-coupling 
protein (RCP)-dependent recycling of α5β1 integrin. RCP and α5β1 cooperatively 
recruit receptor tyrosine kinases, including EGFR1, to regulate their 
trafficking and downstream signaling via protein kinase B (PKB)/Akt, which, in 
turn, promotes invasive migration. In this paper, we identify a novel PKB/Akt 
substrate, RacGAP1, which is phosphorylated as a consequence of RCP-dependent 
α5β1 trafficking. Phosphorylation of RacGAP1 promotes its recruitment to IQGAP1 
at the tips of invasive pseudopods, and RacGAP1 then locally suppresses the 
activity of the cytoskeletal regulator Rac and promotes the activity of RhoA in 
this subcellular region. This Rac to RhoA switch promotes the extension of 
pseudopodial processes and invasive migration into FN-containing matrices, in a 
RhoA-dependent manner. Thus, the localized endocytic trafficking of α5β1 within 
the tips of invasive pseudopods elicits signals that promote the reorganization 
of the actin cytoskeleton, protrusion, and invasion into FN-rich ECM.

DOI: 10.1083/jcb.201302041
PMCID: PMC3776348
PMID: 24019536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


999. J Clin Oncol. 2013 Nov 1;31(31):3951-6. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2013.48.8023. Epub
2013  Sep 9.

Long-term outcomes after pelvic radiation for early-stage endometrial cancer.

Onsrud M(1), Cvancarova M, Hellebust TP, Tropé CG, Kristensen GB, Lindemann K.

Author information:
(1)Mathias Onsrud, Taran P. Hellebust, Claes G. Tropé, and Gunnar B. Kristensen, 
Norwegian Radium Hospital, Oslo University Hospital; Mathias Onsrud, Milada 
Cvancarova, Taran P. Hellebust, and Claes G. Tropé, University of Oslo, Oslo; 
Taran P. Hellebust, Norwegian Radiation Protection Authority, Østerås; and 
Kristina Lindemann, Akershus University Hospital, Lørenskog, Norway.

PURPOSE: This follow-up of a randomized study was conducted to assess the 
long-term effects of external beam radiation therapy (EBRT) in the adjuvant 
treatment of early-stage endometrial cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Between 1968 and 1974, 568 patients with stage I 
endometrial cancer were included. After primary surgery, patients were randomly 
assigned to either vaginal radium brachytherapy followed by EBRT (n = 288) or 
brachytherapy alone (n = 280). Overall survival was analyzed by using the 
Kaplan-Meier method. A Cox proportional hazards model was used to estimate 
hazard ratios (HRs) with 95% CIs. We also conducted analyses stratified by age 
groups.
RESULTS: After median 20.5 years (range, 0 to 43.4 years) of follow-up, no 
statistically significant difference was revealed in overall survival (P = .186) 
between treatment groups. However, women younger than age 60 years had 
significantly higher mortality rates after EBRT (HR, 1.36; 95% CI, 1.06 to 1.76) 
than the control group. The risk of secondary cancer increased after EBRT, 
especially in women younger than age 60 years (HR, 2.02; 95% CI, 1.30 to 3.15).
CONCLUSION: We observed no survival benefit of external pelvic radiation in 
early-stage endometrial carcinoma. In women younger than age 60 years, pelvic 
radiation decreased survival and increased the risk of secondary cancer. 
Adjuvant EBRT should be used with caution, especially in women with a long life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2013.48.8023
PMID: 24019546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Genes Cancer. 2013 Mar;4(3-4):97-104. doi: 10.1177/1947601912475079.

The Roles of SIRT1 in Cancer.

Lin Z(1), Fang D.

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.

The sirtuin family has emerged as important regulators of diverse physiological 
and pathological events, including life-span extension, neurodegeneration, 
age-related disorders, obesity, heart disease, inflammation, and cancer. In 
mammals, there are 7 members (SIRT1-SIRT7) in the sirtuin family, with the 
function of SIRT1 being extensively studied in the past decade. SIRT1 can 
deacetylate histones and a number of nonhistone substrates, which are involved 
in multiple signaling pathways. Numerous studies have suggested that SIRT1 could 
act as either a tumor suppressor or tumor promoter depending on its targets in 
specific signaling pathways or in specific cancers. This review highlights the 
major pathways regulated by SIRT1 involved in tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.1177/1947601912475079
PMCID: PMC3764469
PMID: 24020000

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.
1. J Econ Entomol. 2013 Aug;106(4):1566-73. doi: 10.1603/ec12382.

Population dynamics of three aphid species (Hemiptera: Aphididae) on four 
Ipomoea spp. infected or noninfected with sweetpotato potyviruses.

Wosula EN(1), Davis JA, Clark CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Pathology and Crop Physiology, Louisiana State University 
Agricultural Center, 302 Life Sciences Building, Baton Rouge, LA 70803, USA. 
ewosula2@unl.edu

Three aphid species, Aphis gossypii Glover and Myzus persicae (Sulzer) 
(efficient sweetpotato potyvirus vectors) and Rhopalosiphum padi (L.) (an 
inefficient vector), are commonly found in sweet potato, Ipomoea batatas (L.), 
in Louisiana. Field-grown sweet potatoes are naturally infected with several 
potyviruses: Sweet potato feathery mottle virus, Sweet potato virus G, and Sweet 
potato virus 2. Thus, these aphids commonly encounter virus-infected hosts. What 
is not known is how each of these aphids responds to sweet potato, either 
infected or virus-free. The objectives of this study were to 1) determine if 
these aphid species can colonize mixed virus-infected sweet potato 'Beauregard', 
and if so, 2) determine the effects of virus infection on the population 
dynamics of each aphid. A. gossypii failed to larviposit and R. padi deposited a 
single nymph that died within a day on mixed virus-infected Beauregard. M. 
persicae larviposited and colonized Beauregard and further life-table analyses 
were warranted. M. persicae had a significantly greater reproduction on sweet 
potato cultivars Beauregard and 'Evangeline' with mixed virus infection compared 
with noninfected plants. On morning glory species, Ipomoea cordatotriloba 
(Dennestedt) and Ipomoea hederacea (Jacquin), M. persicae had a significantly 
lower reproduction on Sweet potato feathery mottle virus-infected compared with 
noninfected plants.

DOI: 10.1603/ec12382
PMID: 24020267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Econ Entomol. 2013 Aug;106(4):1716-25. doi: 10.1603/ec13046.

Seasonal biology of Ferrisia gilli (Hemiptera: Pseudococcidae) in California 
Sierra foothill vineyards.

Wunderlich LR(1), Cooper ML, Daane KM.

Author information:
(1)University of California Cooperative Extension, Central Sierra Region, 311 
Fair Lane, Placerville, CA 95667, USA. Irwunderlich@ucanr.edu

The mealybug Ferrisia gilli Gullan is an emerging pest of wine grapes grown in 
California's Sierra foothills. A relatively new species, it had previously been 
recorded as a pest of pistachio, almond, and ornamentals. It was first reported 
on grape in El Dorado County in 2003 and has since established and spread. 
Nondestructive monitoring of grape vine sections was conducted in untreated 
vineyard plots and compared with destructive sampling conducted in 
grower-treated plots in 2008 and 2009 to determine F. gilli life stage seasonal 
presence, number of generations, location on the vine during the season, and 
damage potential to fruit clusters. Two generations were observed to be 
completed during the season. F. gilli overwintered under the bark at the base of 
the trunk, trunk, and cordon as second and third instars. Adults were found at 
the base of emerging shoots (spring) or on and under bark of old and new spurs. 
Live crawlers were born in June (first generation) and late August to September 
(second generation), and migrated to leaves to feed before moving to protected 
locations under bark or into fruit clusters. Lower mealybug densities and fruit 
damage were recorded on vines with than without insecticide treatment(s). 
Parasitized mealybugs were collected in low numbers and an Acerophagus sp. was 
the dominant parasitoid.

DOI: 10.1603/ec13046
PMID: 24020286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Surg Res. 2014 Jan;186(1):135-41. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2013.08.006. Epub 2013 
Aug 28.

Mapping the Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index to short-form 6D utility 
scores.

Lee L(1), Kaneva P, Latimer E, Feldman LS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Steinberg-Bernstein Centre for Minimally Invasive 
Surgery and Innovation, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Canada.

PURPOSE: The Gastrointestinal Quality of Life Index (GIQLI) is a 
disease-specific quality of life instrument that is commonly used in 
gastrointestinal disorders. However, no preference weights, which are used to 
calculate quality-adjusted life years for cost-effectiveness analyses, for this 
instrument have been assigned. Therefore, the objective of this study was to 
develop a mapping function to derive utility scores for the GIQLI.
METHODS: Patients undergoing elective laparoscopic cholecystectomy completed the 
short-form 6D (SF-6D), a preference-weighted utility measure, and the GIQLI at 
baseline and at 1 wk and 1 mo postoperatively. The responsiveness of the SF-6D 
to expected postoperative changes as well as the correlation between the SF-6D 
and the GIQLI was investigated. Ordinary least squares regression was performed 
to derive a mapping function using the baseline values, which was then validated 
using postoperative values. Adjusted r(2), mean absolute error, and root mean 
square error was used to determine model performance.
RESULTS: A total of 50 patients were included in the study (mean age 51.1 
[standard deviation 16.8], 28% male). The SF-6D and GIQLI domains were 
responsive to expected postoperative changes, and there was high correlation 
between the SF-6D and four of the five GIQLI domains (excluding treatment 
effects). The final mapping function explained 63% of the variance in the 
derivation sample but had relatively high mean absolute error (0.075 and 0.067 
in the 1-wk and 1-mo samples, respectively) and adjusted root mean square error 
(13.1% and 12.0% in the 1-wk and 1-mo samples, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: The GIQLI can be accurately mapped to SF-6D preference weights at 
the group level but may be too inexact at the individual level.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jss.2013.08.006
PMID: 24021906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


4. Dis Colon Rectum. 2013 Oct;56(10):1125-33. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e3182a226bd.

Predictive factors for early and late local toxicities in anal cancer treated by 
radiotherapy in combination with or without chemotherapy.

Doyen J(1), Benezery K, Follana P, Ortholan C, Gérard JP, Hannoun-Levi JM, Gal 
J, Francois E.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Radiation Oncology, Centre Antoine-Lacassagne, Nice, France 2 
Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Antoine-Lacassagne, Nice, France 3 
Department of Medical Statistics, Centre Antoine-Lacassagne, Nice, France.

BACKGROUND: The treatment of anal cancer is based on concomitant radiotherapy 
and chemotherapy and is associated with a nonnegligible rate of local severe 
toxicities that can strongly impair the quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: A retrospective analysis was performed to screen the following 
factors as potential predictive factors for local skin and digestive toxicities, 
and as potential prognostic factors for cumulative colostomy incidence: sex, 
age, tumor size, clinical T and N stage, circumferential extension, invasion of 
anal margin, HIV status, type of chemotherapy, and type of radiotherapy and dose 
delivered.
METHODS: One hundred five patients in our database treated between January 2000 
and February 2010 met the eligibility criteria.
RESULTS: Median follow-up was 54.1 months (range, 1-133). Early and late severe 
local toxicities occurred in 33 patients (31.4%) and 18 patients (17.1%). The 
5-year cumulative rate of colostomy was 26.6%. Predictive factors for local 
severe early toxicities were as follows: clinical stage III/IV (p = 0.01), no 
brachytherapy boost (p = 0.003), and use of chemotherapy (p = 0.01). Only 
brachytherapy retained its independence in multivariate analysis (OR = 4.8 
(1.4-16.3), p = 0.01). Human immunodeficiency virus positivity (p = 0.04) was 
the only predictive factor for late toxicities in univariate analysis; it was 
linked independently to the occurrence of ulcer (OR = 0.1 (0.01-0.66), p = 
0.01). Tumor size ≥4 cm (p < 0.001) and occurrence of grade 2 to 3 ulcers (p < 
0.001) were correlated with greater cumulative colostomy incidence.
CONCLUSIONS: In this cohort, nonuse of brachytherapy was an independent 
predictive factor for local acute toxicity. Human immunodeficiency virus 
positivity was the only predictive factor for local late toxicities and strongly 
influenced the onset of ulcer.

DOI: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e3182a226bd
PMID: 24022529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


5. Dis Colon Rectum. 2013 Oct;56(10):e396-7. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e31829f3da8.

Comments on decision analysis for patients with T1 adenocarcinoma of the low 
rectum.

Mistrangelo M(1), Arezzo A, Morino M.

Author information:
(1)Turin, Italy.

Comment on
    Dis Colon Rectum. 2013 Apr;56(4):400-7.

DOI: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e31829f3da8
PMID: 24022540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


6. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Aug 20;2013:823603. doi: 10.1155/2013/823603. 
eCollection 2013.

Crack propagation analysis using acoustic emission sensors for structural health 
monitoring systems.

Kral Z(1), Horn W, Steck J.

Author information:
(1)Wichita State University, Wichita, KS 67260, USA ; Department of Aerospace 
Engineering, 1845 Fairmount, Wichita, KS 67226, USA.
