for the oyster industry.

© 2013 The Society for Applied Microbiology.

DOI: 10.1111/lam.12152
PMID: 24001001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Appetite. 2013 Dec;71:232-41. doi: 10.1016/j.appet.2013.08.015. Epub 2013
Aug  31.

Parenting styles, feeding styles, and their influence on child obesogenic 
behaviors and body weight. A review.

Vollmer RL(1), Mobley AR.

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut, Department of Nutritional Sciences, 3624 Horsebarn 
Road Extension, Unit 4017, Storrs, CT 06269, USA. Electronic address: 
rachel.rogers@uconn.edu.

With recommendations to include parents as targets for childhood obesity 
interventions, there is a need to review the relationship of general parenting 
influences on childhood obesity. Therefore, the aim of this review is to examine 
the existing literature regarding the influence of parenting style and/or 
feeding styles on childhood obesogenic behaviors and body weight. Research 
articles related to parenting style (n=40) and parental feeding style (n=11) 
were identified and reviewed. An authoritative style appears to be the most 
protective parenting and feeding style while the indulgent feeding style is 
consistently associated with negative health outcomes. Overall, results for 
parenting style studies are inconsistent due to differences in conceptualization 
and measurement, while the results for feeding styles are much more cohesive. 
The literature is lacking in the ability to describe the interplay between 
parenting and feeding styles and child obesity risk. Recommendations for future 
research and interventions are discussed in regards to feeding style and 
influences on childhood obesity.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.appet.2013.08.015
PMID: 24001395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Am J Sports Med. 2013 Nov;41(11):2492-9. doi: 10.1177/0363546513499140. Epub
 2013 Sep 3.

Ipsilateral versus contralateral hamstring grafts in anterior cruciate ligament 
reconstruction: a prospective randomized trial.

McRae S(1), Leiter J, McCormack R, Old J, MacDonald P.

Author information:
(1)Peter MacDonald, FRCS, Section of Orthopaedics, Department of Surgery, Pan Am 
Clinic/University of Manitoba, 75 Poseidon Bay, Winnipeg, MB, R3M 3E4, Canada. 
pmacdonald@panamclinic.com.

BACKGROUND: Benefits of graft harvest from the side contralateral to the 
anterior cruciate ligament (ACL)-deficient leg have been identified when using 
bone-patellar tendon-bone autografts in ACL reconstruction (ACLR). As hamstring 
tendon autografts are becoming more commonly used, a study examining the effect 
of contralateral graft harvest of semitendinosus gracilis (STG) tendons on 
patient quality of life was conducted.
PURPOSE: To evaluate if ACLR using a hamstring tendon autograft results in 
better patient quality of life if the graft is harvested from the leg 
contralateral to the ACL rupture compared with the ipsilateral leg.
STUDY DESIGN: Randomized controlled trial; Level of evidence, 1.
METHODS: A total of 100 participants between 16 and 50 years of age with a 
complete ACL tear were randomly assigned to undergo ACLR using either the 
ipsilateral or contralateral leg as the STG graft donor. Primary outcome 
measures were the ACL Quality of Life questionnaire (ACL-QOL), concentric knee 
flexion and extension strength at 60 and 240 deg/s, International Knee 
Documentation Committee (IKDC) knee assessment form, early postoperative pain 
and diary of analgesic use, and rate of reruptures. Outcome measures were 
evaluated before surgery and at 3, 6, 12, and 24 months after surgery.
RESULTS: The ACL-QOL score improved over time for both groups (P < .001), and 
there were no significant differences between groups at any time point (P = 
.528). Significant differences in knee flexion and extension strength were found 
at 3 months after surgery. There were no differences between groups in IKDC knee 
assessment scores or rerupture rates.
CONCLUSION: There does not appear to be any measurable benefit or drawback in 
quality of life to the use of an STG graft from the unaffected limb. In light of 
this finding, further research to examine other possible effects on agility and 
balance as well as time and ability to return to sport should be conducted. 
Longer term follow-up beyond 2 years would allow for a more thorough evaluation 
of the risk of reruptures or contralateral reruptures using this novel approach.

DOI: 10.1177/0363546513499140
PMID: 24001575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Drug Discov Today. 2014 Jan;19(1):8-17. doi: 10.1016/j.drudis.2013.08.017.
Epub  2013 Aug 31.

Tailoring chronic pain treatments for the elderly: are we prepared for the 
challenge?

Arneric SP(1), Laird JM(2), Chappell AS(3), Kennedy JD(3).

Author information:
(1)Eli Lilly & Company, Neuroscience, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA. Electronic 
address: Arneric_Stephen@Lilly.com.
(2)Eli Lilly & Company, Neuroscience, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA; Dept of 
Pharmacology & Experimental Therapeutics and Alan Edwards Centre for Research on 
Pain, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec H3G 1Y6, Canada.
(3)Eli Lilly & Company, Neuroscience, Indianapolis, IN 46285, USA.

Chronic pain is increasingly recognized as a disease and accounts for 
substantial suffering and disability worldwide. The aging 'baby-boomer' 
generation is creating a tsunami of elderly patients (>65 years old) for global 
healthcare systems (between 2010 and 2030). The phenotypic expression of chronic 
pain in the elderly can be influenced by co-morbid diseases (e.g. diabetes, 
cancer, depression, Alzheimer's disease, etc.), changes in physiological 
competency (e.g. drug metabolism/elimination) or cognitive reserve. Will a shift 
in the drug discovery paradigm be required to improve efficacy, side-effects or 
positively impact quality of life (QoL) in the elderly with chronic pain? This 
review highlights a number of potential pitfalls that should be considered when 
delivering valued pain relief medicines tailored for the elderly.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2013.08.017
PMID: 24001595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. J Clin Oncol. 2013 Oct 1;31(28):3565-71. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2012.44.7821. Epub
 2013 Sep 3.

The median informs the message: accuracy of individualized scenarios for 
survival time based on oncologists' estimates.

Kiely BE(1), Martin AJ, Tattersall MH, Nowak AK, Goldstein D, Wilcken NR, Wyld 
DK, Abdi EA, Glasgow A, Beale PJ, Jefford M, Glare PA, Stockler MR.

Author information:
(1)Belinda E. Kiely, Andrew J. Martin, and Martin R. Stockler, National Health 
and Medical Research Council Clinical Trials Centre, University of Sydney; 
Belinda E. Kiely, Martin H.N. Tattersall, Nicholas R.C. Wilcken, Philip J. 
Beale, and Martin R. Stockler, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney; 
Belinda E. Kiely, Martin H.N. Tattersall, Philip J. Beale, and Martin R. 
Stockler, Sydney Cancer Centre-Royal Prince Alfred and Concord Hospitals, 
Sydney; David Goldstein, Prince of Wales Hospital Clinical School, University of 
New South Wales, Kensington; Nicholas R.C. Wilcken, Westmead Hospital, Westmead; 
Ehtesham A. Abdi, Tweed Hospital, Tweed Heads; Amanda Glasgow, Wollongong 
Hospital, Wollongong, New South Wales; Anna K. Nowak, School of Medicine and 
Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Crawley; Anna K. Nowak, Sir 
Charles Gardner Hospital, Nedlands, Western Australia; David K. Wyld, Royal 
Brisbane and Women's Hospital, Brisbane, Queensland; Michael Jefford, Peter 
MacCallum Cancer Centre; Michael Jefford, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia; and Paul A. Glare, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, 
New York, NY.

PURPOSE: To determine the accuracy and usefulness of oncologists' estimates of 
survival time in individual patients with advanced cancer.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Twenty-one oncologists estimated the "median survival of a 
group of identical patients" for each of 114 patients with advanced cancer. 
Accuracy was defined by the proportions of patients with an observed survival 
time bounded by prespecified multiples of their estimated survival time. We 
expected 50% to live longer (or shorter) than their oncologist's estimate 
(calibration), 50% to live from half to double their estimate (typical 
scenario), 5% to 10% to live ≤ one quarter of their estimate (worst-case 
scenario), and 5% to 10% to live three or more times their estimate (best-case 
scenario). Estimates within 0.67 to 1.33 times observed survival were deemed 
precise. Discriminative value was assessed with Harrell's C-statistic and 
prognostic significance with proportional hazards regression.
RESULTS: Median survival time was 11 months. Oncologists' estimates were 
relatively well-calibrated (61% shorter than observed), imprecise (29% from 0.67 
to 1.33 times observed), and moderately discriminative (Harrell C-statistic 
0.63; P = .001). The proportion of patients with an observed survival half to 
double their oncologist's estimate was 63%, ≤ one quarter of their oncologist's 
estimate was 6%, and three or more times their oncologist's estimate was 14%. 
Independent predictors of observed survival were oncologist's estimate (hazard 
ratio [HR] = 0.92; P = .004), dry mouth (HR = 5.1; P < .0001), alkaline 
phosphatase more than 101 U/L (HR = 2.8; P = .0002), Karnofsky performance 
status ≤ 70 (HR = 2.3; P = .007), prostate primary (HR = 0.23; P = .002), and 
steroid use (HR = 2.4; P = .02).
CONCLUSION: Oncologists' estimates of survival time were relatively 
well-calibrated, moderately discriminative, independently associated with 
observed survival, and a reasonable basis for estimating worst-case, typical, 
and best-case scenarios for survival.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2012.44.7821
PMID: 24002504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Mol Ther Nucleic Acids. 2013 Sep 3;2(9):e120. doi: 10.1038/mtna.2013.48.

Preclinical in vivo evaluation of the safety of a multi-shRNA-based gene therapy 
against HIV-1.

Centlivre M(1), Legrand N, Klamer S, Liu YP, Jasmijn von Eije K, Bohne M, 
Rijnstra ES, Weijer K, Blom B, Voermans C, Spits H, Berkhout B.

Author information:
(1)1] Department of Medical Microbiology, Laboratory of Experimental Virology, 
Center for Infection and Immunity Amsterdam (CINIMA), Academic Medical Center, 
University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, the Netherlands [2] Laboratory of Immunity 
and Infection, Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, INSERM 
UMR-S 945, and Université Pierre et Marie Curie, UPMC Univ Paris 06, 91 Bld de 
l'Hôpital, 75013 Paris, France.

Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has significantly improved the 
quality of life and the life expectancy of HIV-infected individuals. Still, 
drug-induced side effects and emergence of drug-resistant viral variants remain 
important issues that justify the exploration of alternative therapeutic 
options. One strategy consists of a gene therapy based on RNA interference to 
induce the sequence-specific degradation of the HIV-1 RNA genome. We have 
selected four potent short hairpin RNA (shRNA) candidates targeting the viral 
capside, integrase, protease and tat/rev open-reading frames and screened the 
safety of them during human hematopoietic cell development, both in vitro and in 
vivo. Although the four shRNA candidates appeared to be safe in vitro, one shRNA 
candidate impaired the in vivo development of the human immune system in Balb/c 
Rag2(-/-)IL-2Rγc(-/-) (BRG) mice. The three remaining shRNA candidates were 
combined into one single lentiviral vector (LV), and safety of the shRNA 
combination during human hematopoietic cell development was confirmed. Overall, 
we demonstrate here the preclinical in vivo safety of a LV expressing three 
shRNAs against HIV-1, which is proposed for a future Phase I clinical 
trial.Molecular Therapy-Nucleic Acids (2013) 2, e120; doi:10.1038/mtna.2013.48; 
published online 3 September 2013.

DOI: 10.1038/mtna.2013.48
PMCID: PMC3808742
PMID: 24002730


960. Eksp Klin Farmakol. 2013;76(6):38-40.

[Comparative antioxidant and antihypoxic activities of new 
1,4-dihydro-4-oxopyrimidine derivative--compound PDMpT.HCl and mexidol].

[Article in Russian]

Petrova EV, Oganesian ÉT, Kodonidi IP, Zhoglo EN.

Compound PDMpT.HCI reduces intensity of lipoperoxidation, activates antioxidant 
system and increases animal life expectancy under hypoxic circumstance.

PMID: 24003490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. J Med Econ. 2013 Nov;16(11):1344-56. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.839948. Epub
 2013 Sep 25.

De-escalation from micafungin is a cost-effective alternative to traditional 
escalation from fluconazole in the treatment of patients with systemic Candida 
infections.

Masterton RG(1), Casamayor M, Musingarimi P, van Engen A, Zinck R, 
Odufowora-Sita O, Odeyemi IA.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthcare Associated Infection, University of the West of 
Scotland , Ayrshire , UK.

BACKGROUND: Systemic Candida infections (SCI) occur predominantly in intensive 
care unit patients and are a common cause of morbidity and mortality. Recently, 
changes in Candida epidemiology with an increasing prevalence of SCI caused by 
Candida non-albicans species have been reported. Resistance to fluconazole and 
azoles in general is not uncommon for non-albicans species. Despite guidelines 
recommending initial treatment with broad-spectrum antifungals such as 
echinocandins with subsequent switch to fluconazole if isolates are sensitive 
(de-escalation strategy), fluconazole is still the preferred first-line 
antifungal (escalation) in many clinical practice settings. After diagnosis of 
the pathogen, the initial therapy with fluconazole is switched to a 
broad-spectrum antifungal if a non-albicans is identified.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of initial treatment with micafungin 
(de-escalation) vs fluconazole (escalation) in patients with SCI was estimated 
using decision analysis based on clinical and microbiological data from 
pertinent studies. The model horizon was 42 days, and was extrapolated to cover 
a lifetime horizon. All costs were analyzed from the UK NHS perspective. Several 
assumptions were taken to address uncertainties; the limitations of these 
assumptions are discussed in the article.
RESULTS: In patients with fluconazole-resistant isolates, initial treatment with 
micafungin avoids 30% more deaths and successfully treats 23% more patients than 
initial treatment with fluconazole, with cost savings of £1621 per treated 
patient. In the overall SCI population, de-escalation results in 1.2% fewer 
deaths at a marginal cost of £740 per patient. Over a lifetime horizon, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness of de-escalation vs escalation was £15,522 per 
life-year and £25,673 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: De-escalation from micafungin may improve clinical outcomes and 
overall survival, particularly among patients with fluconazole-resistant Candida 
strains. De-escalation from initial treatment with micafungin is a 
cost-effective alternative to escalation from a UK NHS perspective, with a 
differential cost per QALY below the 'willingness-to-pay' threshold of £30,000.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.839948
PMID: 24003830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. J Med Econ. 2013 Nov;16(11):1267-74. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.838571. Epub
 2013 Sep 13.

Validation of an economic model of paliperidone palmitate for chronic 
schizophrenia.

Einarson TR(1), Hemels ME.

Author information:
(1)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto , Toronto, ON , Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Model validation is important, but seldom applied in chronic 
schizophrenia. Validation consists of verifying the model itself for face 
validity (i.e., structure and inputs), cross-validation with other models 
assessing the same issue, and comparison with real-life outcomes. The primary 
purpose was to cross-validate a recent pharmacoeconomic model comparing 
long-acting injectable (LAI) antipsychotics for treating chronic schizophrenia 
in Sweden. The secondary purpose was to provide external validation.
METHODS: The model of interest was a decision tree analysis with a 1-year time 
horizon with costs in 2011 Swedish kroner. Drugs analyzed included paliperidone 
palmitate (PP-LAI), olanzapine pamoate (OLZ-LAI), risperidone (RIS-LAI), 
haloperidol (HAL-LAI), and oral olanzapine (oral-OLZ). Embase and Medline were 
searched from 1990-2012 for models examining LAIs. Articles were retrieved, with 
data extracted for all drugs compared including: expected costs, rates of 
hospitalization, proportion of time not in relapse, and associated QALYs. 
Outcomes from the model of interest were compared with those from other 
articles; costs were projected to 2012 using the consumer price index.
RESULTS: Twenty-six studies were used for validation; 14 of them provided 
evidence for cross-validation, 13 for external validation, and four for cost. In 
cross-validation, cost estimates varied -1.8% (range: -12.4-20.1%), 
hospitalizations 5.2% (-12.1-3.1%), stable disease 2.5% (-5.6-1.5%), QALYs 9.0% 
(4.3% after removing outliers). All estimates of clinical outcomes were within 
15%. In external validation, hospitalization rates varied by 6.3% (-0.7-11.3%). 
The research was limited by data availability and validity of the original 
results.
CONCLUSION: Other models validated the outputs of our model very well.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.838571
PMID: 24003857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Biochem J. 2013 Nov 15;456(1):13-24. doi: 10.1042/BJ20130618.

Analysis of Arabidopsis thioredoxin-h isotypes identifies discrete domains that 
confer specific structural and functional properties.

Jung YJ(1), Chi YH, Chae HB, Shin MR, Lee ES, Cha JY, Paeng SK, Lee Y, Park JH, 
Kim WY, Kang CH, Lee KO, Lee KW, Yun DJ, Lee SY.

Author information:
(1)*Division of Applied Life Science, PMBBRC, Gyeongsang National University, 
Jinju 660-701, Republic of Korea.

Multiple isoforms of Arabidopsis thaliana h-type thioredoxins (AtTrx-hs) have 
distinct structural and functional specificities. AtTrx-h3 acts as both a 
disulfide reductase and as a molecular chaperone. We prepared five 
representative AtTrx-hs and compared their protein structures and disulfide 
reductase and molecular chaperone activities. AtTrx-h2 with an N-terminal 
extension exhibited distinct functional properties with respect to other 
AtTrx-hs. AtTrx-h2 formed low-molecular-mass structures and exhibited only 
disulfide reductase activity, whereas the other AtTrx-h isoforms formed 
high-molecular-mass complexes and displayed both disulfide reductase and 
molecular chaperone activities. The domains that determine the unique structural 
and functional properties of each AtTrx-hs protein were determined by 
constructing a domain-swap between the N- and C-terminal regions of AtTrx-h2 and 
AtTrx-h3 (designated AtTrx-h-2N3C and AtTrx-h-3N2C respectively), an N-terminal 
deletion mutant of AtTrx-h2 [AtTrx-h2-N(∆19)] and site-directed mutagenesis of 
AtTrx-h3. AtTrx-h2-N(∆19) and AtTrx-h-3N2C exhibited similar properties to those 
of AtTrx-h2, but AtTrx-h-2N3C behaved more like AtTrx-h3, suggesting that the 
structural and functional specificities of AtTrx-hs are determined by their 
C-terminal regions. Hydrophobicity profiling and molecular modelling revealed 
that Ala100 and Ala106 in AtTrx-h3 play critical roles in its structural and 
functional regulation. When these two residues in AtTrx-h3 were replaced with 
lysine, AtTrx-h3 functioned like AtTrx-h2. The chaperone function of AtTrx-hs 
conferred enhanced heat-shock-resistance on a thermosensitive trx1/2-null yeast 
mutant.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20130618
PMID: 24003859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2013;157(36):A6502.

[Validity of risk scores to predict type 2 diabetes in the Dutch population].

[Article in Dutch]

Beulens JW(1), Abbasi A, Peelen LM, Spijkerman A, van der A DL, Corpeleijn E, 
Bakker SJ, van der Schouw YT.

Author information:
(1)*Dit onderzoek werd eerder gepubliceerd in British Medical Journal (epub 18 
september 2012)met als titel 'Prediction models for risk of developing type 2 
diabetes: systematic literature search and independent external validation 
study'. Afgedrukt met toestemming.

OBJECTIVE: To validate risk scores to predict occurrence of type 2 diabetes in 
the Dutch population.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
METHODS: Twelve basic risk scores and 13 extensive risk scores with biomarkers 
were used to predict the risk of developing type 2 diabetes during 7.5 years in 
a prospective cohort of 38,379 Dutch men and women. Occurrence of diabetes was 
documented through repeated questionnaires and validated against medical 
records. The capacity of the risk scores to correctly identify those at high 
risk of developing diabetes was determined using the C-statistic. The capacity 
of the risk scores to correctly quantify the absolute risk of diabetes was 
determined by testing the difference between the predicted and observed risk in 
the population.
RESULTS: The capacity of basic risk scores to identify those at high risk of 
diabetes was good, with C-statistics ranging from 0.74 (95%-CI: 0.73-0.75) to 
0.84 (0.82-0.85). The extended risk scores were very capable of identifying 
those at high risk of diabetes, with C-statistics ranging from 0.81 (0.80-0.83) 
to 0.93 (0.92-0.94). Most risk scores, however, were unable to correctly 
quantify the absolute risk of diabetes; the risk was usually overestimated. Only 
the basic KORA model correctly quantified the risk in this Dutch population.
CONCLUSION: In the Dutch population, risk scores to predict the occurrence of 
type 2 diabetes are very capable of identifying those at high risk. Extension 
with biomarkers improves this capacity. Quantification of the absolute risk of 
diabetes was insufficient in most risk scores.

PMID: 24004929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. BMC Syst Biol. 2013 Aug 30;7:84. doi: 10.1186/1752-0509-7-84.

Inferring the effective TOR-dependent network: a computational study in yeast.

Mohammadi S(1), Subramaniam S, Grama A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Science, Purdue University, West Lafayette, Indiana, 
USA. mohammadi@purdue.edu.

BACKGROUND: Calorie restriction (CR) is one of the most conserved non-genetic 
interventions that extends healthspan in evolutionarily distant species, ranging 
from yeast to mammals. The target of rapamycin (TOR) has been shown to play a 
key role in mediating healthspan extension in response to CR by integrating 
different signals that monitor nutrient-availability and orchestrating various 
components of cellular machinery in response. Both genetic and pharmacological 
interventions that inhibit the TOR pathway exhibit a similar phenotype, which is 
not further amplified by CR.
RESULTS: In this paper, we present the first comprehensive, computationally 
derived map of TOR downstream effectors, with the objective of discovering key 
lifespan mediators, their crosstalk, and high-level organization. We adopt a 
systematic approach for tracing information flow from the TOR complex and use it 
to identify relevant signaling elements. By constructing a high-level functional 
map of TOR downstream effectors, we show that our approach is not only capable 
of recapturing previously known pathways, but also suggests potential targets 
for future studies.Information flow scores provide an aggregate ranking of 
relevance of proteins with respect to the TOR signaling pathway. These rankings 
must be normalized for degree bias, appropriately interpreted, and mapped to 
associated roles in pathways. We propose a novel statistical framework for 
integrating information flow scores, the set of differentially expressed genes 
in response to rapamycin treatment, and the transcriptional regulatory network. 
We use this framework to identify the most relevant transcription factors in 
mediating the observed transcriptional response, and to construct the effective 
response network of the TOR pathway. This network is hypothesized to mediate 
life-span extension in response to TOR inhibition.
CONCLUSIONS: Our approach, unlike experimental methods, is not limited to 
specific aspects of cellular response. Rather, it predicts transcriptional 
changes and post-translational modifications in response to TOR inhibition. The 
constructed effective response network greatly enhances understanding of the 
mechanisms underlying the aging process and helps in identifying new targets for 
further investigation of anti-aging regimes. It also allows us to identify 
potential network biomarkers for diagnosis and prognosis of age-related 
pathologies.

DOI: 10.1186/1752-0509-7-84
PMCID: PMC4016608
PMID: 24005029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Med Sci (Paris). 2013 Aug-Sep;29(8-9):749-55. doi:
10.1051/medsci/2013298014.  Epub 2013 Sep 5.

[Reprogramming pancreatic cells to β cells].

[Article in French]

Vieira A(1), Druelle N, Courtney M, Avolio F, Ben-Othman N, Pfeifer A, Gjernes 
E, Faurite B, Collombat P.

Author information:
(1)Université Nice-Sophia Antipolis, Nice, France.

Type 1 diabetes (T1DM) is a common metabolic disorder affecting an 
ever-increasing number of patients worldwide. T1DM is caused by the selective 
destruction of pancreatic insulin-producing β-cells by the immune system. Such 
loss results in chronic hyperglycemia and could induce a number of 
cardio-vascular complications. Despite the classical insulin-based therapy, 
compared to healthy people, patients with T1DM display a shortened life 
expectancy due to the treatment's inability to strictly regulate glycemic 
levels. An alternative therapy involves pancreatic islet transplantation but the 
shortage of donors and the required immuno-suppressive treatments limit the 
widespread use of this approach. Therefore, the search of new approaches to 
generate functional β-cells is of growing interest. In this review, we describe 
several novel strategies aiming at the conversion of diverse pancreatic cells 
into β-cells, such as acinar, ductal, and endocrine cells. Clearly, such 
promising results could open new research avenues in the context of type 1 
diabetes research.

© 2013 médecine/sciences – Inserm.

DOI: 10.1051/medsci/2013298014
PMID: 24005630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Ornithine Transcarbamylase Deficiency.

Lichter-Konecki U(1), Caldovic L(2), Morizono H(2), Simpson K(3), Ah Mew N(3), 
MacLeod E(3).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2013 Aug 29 [updated 2022 May 26].

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetic & Genomic Medicine, UPMC Children’s Hospital of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania
(2)Center for Genetic Medicine Research, Children's National Hospital, 
Washington, DC
(3)Division of Genetics & Metabolism, Children's National Hospital, Washington, 
DC

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: Ornithine transcarbamylase (OTC) deficiency can occur 
as a severe neonatal-onset disease in males (but rarely in females) and as a 
post-neonatal-onset (also known as "late-onset" or partial deficiency) disease 
in males and females. Males with severe neonatal-onset OTC deficiency are 
asymptomatic at birth but become symptomatic from hyperammonemia in the first 
week of life, most often on day two to three of life, and are usually 
catastrophically ill by the time they come to medical attention. After 
successful treatment of neonatal hyperammonemic coma these infants can easily 
become hyperammonemic again despite appropriate treatment; they typically 
require liver transplant to improve quality of life. Males and heterozygous 
females with post-neonatal-onset (partial) OTC deficiency can present from 
infancy to later childhood, adolescence, or adulthood. No matter how mild the 
disease, a hyperammonemic crisis can be precipitated by stressors and become a 
life-threatening event at any age and in any situation in life. For all 
individuals with OTC deficiency, typical neuropsychological complications 
include developmental delay, learning disabilities, intellectual disability, 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder, and executive function deficits.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of OTC deficiency is established in a male 
proband with suggestive clinical and laboratory findings and at least ONE of the 
following: A hemizygous pathogenic variant in OTC by molecular genetic testing. 
A markedly abnormal increase of orotic acid excretion (≥20 umol/mmol creatinine) 
in a random urine collection or after an allopurinol challenge test, along with 
a past medical history of biochemical features consistent with OTC deficiency 
(e.g., elevated ammonia, elevated glutamine and low-to-normal citrulline), as 
well as absence of biochemical or DNA evidence suggestive of another inborn 
error of metabolism. Decreased OTC enzyme activity in liver. The diagnosis of 
OTC deficiency is usually established in a female proband with the suggestive 
clinical and laboratory findings and with at least ONE of the following: A 
heterozygous pathogenic variant in OTC by molecular genetic testing. A markedly 
abnormal increase of orotic acid excretion (≥20 umol/mmol creatinine) in a 
random urine collection or after an allopurinol challenge test, along with a 
past medical history of biochemical features consistent with OTC deficiency 
(e.g., elevated ammonia, elevated glutamine and low-to-normal citrulline), as 
well as absence of biochemical or DNA evidence suggestive of another inborn 
error of metabolism. Measurement of OTC enzyme activity in liver is not a 
reliable means of diagnosis in females.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: Treatment is best provided by a 
metabolic physician / biochemical geneticist and specialist metabolic dietitian; 
treatment of hyperammonemic coma should be provided by a team coordinated by a 
metabolic specialist in a tertiary care center experienced in the management of 
OTC deficiency. The mainstays of treatment of the acute phase are rapid lowering 
of the plasma ammonia level to ≤200 μmol/L (if necessary, with renal replacement 
therapy); use of ammonia scavenger treatment to allow excretion of excess 
nitrogen via alternative pathways; reversal of catabolism; and reducing the risk 
of neurologic damage. The goals of long-term treatment are to promote growth and 
development and to prevent hyperammonemic episodes. In severe, neonatal-onset 
urea cycle disorders, liver transplantation is typically performed by age six 
months to prevent further hyperammonemic crises and neurodevelopmental 
deterioration. In females and males with partial OTC deficiency, liver 
transplant is typically considered in those who have frequent hyperammonemic 
episodes. Complications of OTC deficiency, including developmental delay and 
intellectual disability, are treated according to the standard of care for these 
conditions while monitoring for signs of liver disease. Surveillance: At the 
start of therapy, routine measurement of plasma ammonia and plasma amino acids 
every two weeks with gradual extension of the intervals between testing. 
Laboratory analysis for vitamin and mineral deficiencies annually or as 
indicated by the metabolic dietician. Assess liver function (depending on 
symptoms) every three to six months or more often when previously abnormal. 
Perform neuropsychological testing at the time of expected significant 
developmental milestones. Agents/circumstances to avoid: Valproate, haloperidol, 
fasting, systemic corticosteroids, physical and psychological stress. Evaluation 
of relatives at risk: If the pathogenic variant in the family is known and if 
prenatal testing has not been performed, it is appropriate to perform molecular 
genetic testing on at-risk newborns (males and females) as soon after birth as 
possible so that the appropriate treatment or surveillance (for those with the 
family-specific pathogenic variant) can be promptly established. If the 
pathogenic variant in the family is NOT known, biochemical analysis (plasma 
amino acid analysis, ammonia level), an allopurinol challenge test (in older 
individuals), and/or OTC enzyme activity measurement in liver (males only) can 
be performed. Preventive measures should be instituted at birth and maintained 
until the diagnosis has been ruled out. Pregnancy management: Heterozygous 
females are at risk of becoming catabolic during pregnancy and especially in the 
postpartum period. Those who are symptomatic need to be treated throughout 
pregnancy according to pre-pregnancy protocols adapted for needs during 
pregnancy; those who are asymptomatic need to avoid catabolism in the peripartum 
and postpartum periods and should be treated accordingly.
GENETIC COUNSELING: OTC deficiency is inherited in an X-linked manner. If the 
mother of a proband has an OTC pathogenic variant, the chance of transmitting it 
in each pregnancy is 50%. Males who inherit the pathogenic variant will be 
affected; females who inherit the pathogenic variant will be heterozygotes and 
may or may not develop clinical findings related to the disorder. Males with OTC 
deficiency transmit the pathogenic variant to all of their daughters and none of 
their sons. Molecular genetic heterozygote testing for at-risk female relatives 
and prenatal and preimplantation genetic testing for OTC deficiency are possible 
if the OTC pathogenic variant has been identified in the family.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 24006547


968. U.S. Health in International Perspective: Shorter Lives, Poorer Health.

National Research Council (US); Institute of Medicine (US); Woolf SH, Aron L, 
editors.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2013.
The National Academies Collection: Reports funded by National Institutes of 
Health.

The United States is among the wealthiest nations in the world, but it is far 
from the healthiest. Although life expectancy and survival rates in the United 
States have improved dramatically over the past century, Americans live shorter 
lives and experience more injuries and illnesses than people in other 
high-income countries. A growing body of research is calling attention to this 
problem, with a 2011 report by the National Research Council confirming a large 
and rising international “mortality gap” among adults age 50 and older. The U.S. 
health disadvantage cannot be attributed solely to the adverse health status of 
racial or ethnic minorities or poor people, because recent studies suggest that 
even highly advantaged Americans may be in worse health than their counterparts 
in other countries. As a follow-up to the 2011 National Research Council report 
and in light of this new evidence, the National Institutes of Health asked the 
National Research Council (NRC) and the Institute of Medicine (IOM) to convene a 
panel of experts to study this issue. The Panel on Understanding Cross-National 
Health Differences Among High-Income Countries was charged with examining 
whether the U.S. health disadvantage exists across the life span, exploring 
potential explanations, and assessing the larger implications of the findings.

Copyright © 2013, National Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.17226/13497
PMID: 24006554


969. Rev Laryngol Otol Rhinol (Bord). 2012;133(4-5):233-6.

[Pott's puffy tumor, a rare complication of frontal sinusitis].

[Article in French]

Bouchareb N(1), Adouli A, Abada RL, Rouadi S, Mahtar M, Roubal M, Essaadi M, 
Kadiri F.

Author information:
(1)CHU Ibn Rochd, Hôpital 20 Aout, Service ORL et Chirurgie Cervico-Faciale, 
Casablanca, Maroc. nadouaa.bouchareb@gmail.com

Port's puffy tumour (PPT), corresponding to frontal osteomyelitis causing 
erosion of the anterior wall of the frontal sinus and subperiosteal abscess, is 
a rare but serious complication of frontal sinusitis or trauma to the region. It 
can occur even despite the use of antibiotics and requires surgical drainage of 
the abscess, excision of pathological tissues and obliteration of the frontal 
sinus by various materials. It can rarely progress to life-threatening 
intracranial extension. Practitioners must be extremely cautious in the presence 
of clinical signs suggestive of Pott's puffy tumour. The aim of this article is 
to present a case of progressively evolving PPT in a patient of 28 years by 
frontal headaches that are aggravated by painful swelling front soft and 
fluctuating by palpation and that has fistulated at the right upper eyelid. CT 
scan of the face revealed the presence of a discontinuity bone at the anterior 
wall of the right frontal sinus. The treatment consisted of surgery and 
antibiotics. The patient remained asymptomatic after a decline of 18 months.

PMID: 24006834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. J Chem Phys. 2013 Aug 28;139(8):084107. doi: 10.1063/1.4818877.

The time correlation function perspective of NMR relaxation in proteins.

Shapiro YE(1), Meirovitch E.

Author information:
(1)The Mina and Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan 5290002, Israel.

We applied over a decade ago the two-body coupled-rotator slowly relaxing local 
structure (SRLS) approach to NMR relaxation in proteins. One rotator is the 
globally moving protein and the other rotator is the locally moving probe 
(spin-bearing moiety, typically the (15)N-(1)H bond). So far we applied SRLS to 
(15)N-H relaxation from seven different proteins within the scope of the 
commonly used data-fitting paradigm. Here, we solve the SRLS Smoluchowski 
equation using typical best-fit parameters as input, to obtain the corresponding 
generic time correlation functions (TCFs). The following new information is 
obtained. For actual rhombic local ordering and main ordering axis pointing 
along C(i-1)(α)-C(i)(α), the measurable TCF is dominated by the (K,K') = (-2,2), 
(2,2), and (0,2) components (K is the order of the rank 2 local ordering 
tensor), determined largely by the local motion. Global diffusion axiality 
affects the analysis significantly when the ratio between the parallel and 
perpendicular components exceeds approximately 1.5. Local diffusion axiality has 
a large and intricate effect on the analysis. Mode-coupling becomes important 
when the ratio between the global and local motional rates falls below 0.01. The 
traditional method of analysis--model-free (MF)--represents a simple limit of 
SRLS. The conditions under which the MF and SRLS TCFs are the same are 
specified. The validity ranges of wobble-in-a-cone and rotation on the surface 
of a cone as local motions are determined. The evolution of the intricate 
Smoluchowski operator from the simple diffusion operator for a sphere 
reorienting in isotropic medium is delineated. This highlights the fact that 
SRLS is an extension of the established stochastic theories for treating 
restricted motions. This study lays the groundwork for TCF-based comparison 
between mesoscopic SRLS and atomistic molecular dynamics.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4818877
PMID: 24006974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Curr Med Res Opin. 2014 Jan;30(1):109-12. doi: 10.1185/03007995.2013.841667.
 Epub 2013 Oct 9.

Hyperphosphatemia and phosphate binders: effectiveness and safety.

Kalaitzidis RG(1), Elisaf MS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, University of Ioannina , 
Ioannina , Greece.

In patients with kidney dysfunction hyperphosphatemia is more evident as renal 
failure progresses. It is related to increased FGF-23 levels, secondary 
hyperparathyroidism, and accelerated progressive vascular calcification. In CKD 
patients advanced coronary artery calcification is strongly associated with 
future cardiovascular events, cardiovascular death, and all-cause mortality. 
Apart from the above, phosphate per se is suspected as a causal risk factor for 
CKD progression. Keeping serum phosphorus within the target values are linked to 
improvement in life expectancy. A low phosphate diet, an efficient dialysis 
removal of phosphate load, and the administration of phosphate binders are the 
main recommended steps to control hyperphosphatemia. Calcium-based phosphate 
binders can lead to a positive calcium balance, hypercalcaemia, parathyroid 
gland suppression, adynamic bone disease, and coronary artery and aortic 
calcification. On the other hand Sevelamer hydrochloride and Lanthanum carbonate 
has been shown to be effective, safe and useful therapeutic tools for 
hyperphosphatemia. When prescribe pharmacological agents, one must take into 
account the large increase in health-care expenditure and the choice of 
phosphate binder should be individualized.

DOI: 10.1185/03007995.2013.841667
PMID: 24007207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Rev Alerg Mex. 2011 Oct-Dec;58(4):213-8.

[Wiskott-Aldrich Syndrome: An updated review].

[Article in Spanish]

Blancas-Galicia L(1), Escamilla-Quiroz C, Yamazaki-Nakashimada MA.

Author information:
(1)Insurgentes sur 3700-C, Cuicuilco, CP 04530, MÈxico, D.F. 
Lbg73_2000@yahoo.com.

The Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome (WAS) is a primary immunodeficiency and is 
inherited in an X-linked pattern. Affected patients have mutations in the gene 
encoding Wiskott-Aldrich syndrome protein (WASP), a key regulator of signaling 
and reorganization of the cytoskeleton in hematopoietic cells. Mutations in WASP 
gene lead to a wide clinical spectrum ranging from thrombocytopenia, 
immunodeficiency, eczema and high susceptibility to tumor development and 
manifestations such as skin infections, suppurative otitis and pneumonia. 
Clinical symptoms start around the age of 6 months. Incidence of this disease is 
1-10/millions of births. The laboratory tests show low platelet count and small 
size, but definitive diagnosis can only be confirmed by the demonstration of 
mutations in WASP gene. Treatment of WAS is based on antimicrobial therapy, 
prophylactic use of intravenous gamma globulin and bone marrow transplantation. 
Life expectancy in treated individuals is around 20 years but without treatment 
is 3.5 years.

PMID: 24007832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Best Pract Res Clin Obstet Gynaecol. 2013 Oct;27(5):661-72. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2013.06.005. Epub 2013 Sep 3.

Brain health and cognitive and mood disorders in ageing women.

Silva I(1), Naftolin F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, Federal University of São Paulo, UNIFESP/EPM, Sao 
Paulo, Brazil.

Improved medical, economic and socio-cultural conditions have increased life 
expectancy, especially for women. The incidence of hypertension, diabetes 
mellitus, psychiatric and degenerative brain diseases, especially stroke and 
dementia, are more frequently seen in older people. Each of these conditions can 
separately, or in combination, result in similar signs and symptoms of 
cognition, memory, mood and motor function disorders. Therefore, it is important 
to understand the effects of normal ovarian ageing and the menopause on the 
nervous system, as well as the hallmarks of disease entities; many of these are 
described here. Also, the complexity of these issues is increased by the 
similarity of their effects to those of the polypharmacy and metabolic 
imbalances that are common in this population. These are complex issues, and it 
may be difficult and time-consuming to discern between normal brain functional 
changes and specific pathology in practice. Early evaluation of correctable 
possibilities, including imaging studies, may be key to management. Referral to 
specialists for diagnosis before starting clinical treatment is useful to 
address these issues.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpobgyn.2013.06.005
PMID: 24007951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Rev Alerg Mex. 2013 Apr-Jun;60(2):69-77.

[Asthma in elderly: from basic immunology to the clinic].

[Article in Spanish]

Quezada-Pérez E(1), Guido-Bayardo LR, Marìn-Larrain PP, Coss-Mejía AH.

Author information:
(1)Servicios de GeriatrÌa y Alergia, Hospital de la Mujer,Paseo Tlahuica, 
Yautepec 62731 Morelos. MÈxico.

BACKGROUND: Asthma is a disease that has been considered mainly in children and 
teenagers, but due to the longer life expectancy, more elderly patients with 
pulmonary diseases suggestive of asthma have been detected. The diagnosis of 
asthma in patients over sixty years of age, becomes more complex, since there 
are coexistent diseases like chronic obstructive pulmonary disease, along with 
the difficulty for the performance of function pulmonary tests, which impact 
upon the adequate treatment and quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: To spread and update information on the clinical usefulness of 
elderly asmathic patients.
METHODS: We performed a search for Spanish and English articles, in indexed 
journals from medical databases. In these papers we looked up the words: 
geriatrics, asthma, aging, immunosenescence, and we chose those papers with 
clinical relevance.
RESULTS: Of the information obtained from the selected 54 articles, we observed 
that the elderly asthmatic patients, usually do not have a prompt diagnosis and 
treatment from the health services, therefore affecting their quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: A better knowledge about asthma in the elderly is required, in 
order to improve their clinical status and quality of life, resulting in better 
outcomes.

PMID: 24008106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Minerva Med. 2013 Aug;104(4):455-70.

[Micronutrient deficiencies in osteoporosis].

[Article in Italian]

Stazi AV(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Genetic Tossicology, Environment Department and Primary 
PreventionIstituto Superiore di Sanità, Rome, Italy - annavelia.stazi@iss.it.

Osteoporosis is a disease characterized by a progressive reduction of bone mass 
and a simultaneous deterioration of skeletal microarchitecture leading to a loss 
of bone strength, resulting in bone fracture as consequence of even very low 
traumas. Osteoporosis has only recently been accorded growing clinical and 
pathological importance for its impact on health. This disease, thanks to 
considerable increases in life expectancy, is becoming more visible and is now 
treated either as a serious public health issue of socio-economic importance, 
and as a multifactorial disease. In fact, both in women and men, osteoporosis is 
often associated with e hypogonadism as well as with individual traits such as 
genetic constitution, cytokines, sex and race, which represent non-modifiable 
endogenous risk factors. In addition, modifiable exogenous risk factors related 
to lifestyle (e.g. smoking, alcohol consumption, diet) can lead to an 
acceleration in the genesis of osteoporosis. This article is intended to 
contribute to the knowledge of exogenous risk factors in osteoporosis, with 
special consideration to the role of micronutrient deficiencies.

PMID: 24008608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Health Econ. 2014 Oct;23(10):1185-212. doi: 10.1002/hec.2977. Epub 2013 Sep
5.

A country for old men? Long-term home care utilization in Europe.

Balia S(1), Brau R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Business, University of Cagliari and CRENoS, 
Cagliari, Italy.

This paper investigates long-term home care utilization in Europe. Data from the 
first wave of the Survey on Health, Ageing and Retirement (SHARE) on formal 
(nursing care and paid domestic help) and informal care (support provided by 
relatives) are used to study the probability and the quantity of both types of 
care. The overall process is framed in a fully simultaneous equation system that 
takes the form of a bivariate two-part model where the reciprocal interaction 
between formal and informal care is estimated. Endogeneity and unobservable 
heterogeneity are addressed using a common latent factor approach. The analysis 
of the relative impact of age and disability on home care utilization is 
enriched by the use of a proximity to death (PtD) indicator built using the 
second wave of SHARE. All these indicators are important predictors of home care 
utilization. In particular, a strong significant effect of PtD is found in the 
paid domestic help and informal care models. The relationship between formal and 
informal care moves from substitutability to complementarity depending on the 
type of care considered, and the estimated effects are small in absolute size. 
This might call for a reconsideration of the effectiveness of incentives for 
informal care as instruments to reduce public expenditure for home care 
services.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.2977
PMID: 24009166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2013 Dec;8(12):2100-5. doi: 10.2215/CJN.04300413.
Epub  2013 Sep 5.

Left atrial diameter and survival among renal allograft recipients.

Kainz A(1), Goliasch G, Wiesbauer F, Binder T, Maurer G, Nesser HJ, Mascherbauer 
R, Ebner C, Kramar R, Wilflingseder J, Oberbauer R.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Nephrology and, ‡Cardiology, Medical University of Vienna, 
Vienna, Austria;, Departments of †Nephrology and, §Cardiology, Krankenhaus 
Elisabethinen, Linz, Austria, ‖Austrian Dialysis and Transplant Registry, Linz, 
Austria.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Sequential echocardiography is routinely performed in 
patients with ESRD listed for transplantation. The benefit of this labor- and 
time-intensive measure, however, remains unclear. Thus, this study elucidated 
the various obtained routine echocardiography parameters that best predicted 
mortality and graft survival after renal transplantation.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: This study investigated 553 first 
renal transplant recipients listed in the Austrian Dialysis and Transplant 
Registry between 1992 and 2011 who had echocardiographic analysis at 
transplantation and survived at least 1 year. Cox proportional hazards models 
with the purposeful selection algorithms for covariables were used to identify 
predictors of mortality and graft loss. A Fine and Gray model was used to 
evaluate cause-specific death.
RESULTS: During a median follow-up of 7.14 years, 81 patients died, and 59 
patients experienced graft loss after the first year. The Kaplan-Meier analysis 
showed that 85% of patients with a left atrial diameter below the median of 53 
mm were alive 10 years after transplantation, whereas only 70% of those patients 
with a left atrial diameter equal to or above the median had survived (P<0.001). 
In the multivariable model, left atrial diameter (per millimeter) independently 
predicted overall mortality (hazard ratio, 1.06; 95% confidence interval, 1.03 
to 1.08; P<0.001) and cause-specific cardiac death (hazard ratio, 1.04; 95% 
confidence interval, 1.00 to 1.08; P=0.04). Functional graft loss was predicted 
by the right atrial diameter (hazard ratio, 1.04; 95% confidence interval, 1.02 
to 1.07; P=0.001).
CONCLUSION: The left atrial diameter determined at transplantation predicted 
overall and cardiac mortality. Patients with widely enlarged left atria exhibit 
a considerably reduced life expectancy. It remains to be determined, however, 
whether renal transplantation is futile in these patients.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.04300413
PMCID: PMC3848405
PMID: 24009216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2013 Jul;131(7):891-7. doi:
10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2013.202.

Surgical outcomes and cost basis for resident-performed cataract surgery in an 
uninsured patient population.

Moore DB(1), Slabaugh MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98104, 
USA.

IMPORTANCE: In the past, resident physicians have provided care to indigent 
patients under the supervision of experienced physicians. General consensus 
exists regarding higher surgical costs of patient care at teaching hospitals. No 
study has examined the outcomes or the cost basis for resident physicians 
providing health care to an underserved population.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the visual results in uninsured patients undergoing 
cataract surgery performed by resident surgeons at a single institution and to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of care.
DESIGN AND SETTING: A retrospective case series of consecutive uninsured 
patients undergoing cataract procedures performed by attending-supervised 
resident physicians at the University of Washington from July 1, 2005, through 
June 30, 2011. Data obtained included demographic information, preoperative and 
postoperative best-corrected visual acuity (BCVA) in the eye undergoing the 
procedure, and surgical complications.We calculated the costs of services 
rendered and normalized them to 2011 dollars. These data were incorporated into 
time–trade-off discounted utility values. Data were expressed as mean (SD).
PARTICIPANTS: One hundred forty-three consecutive patients.
EXPOSURE: Cataract surgical procedures.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Costs of the surgical procedure and the utility 
value associated with the BCVA in the operated-on eye,
RESULTS: The mean logMAR preoperative BCVA was 1.09 (0.74) (Snellen equivalent, 
20/300). The best-recorded mean postoperative BCVA was 0.24 (0.42) (Snellen 
equivalent, 20/40), obtained at 3.77 (9.30) months. The final recorded mean BCVA 
was 0.27 (0.43) (Snellen equivalent, 20/40), obtained at a median (SD) follow-up 
of 16.32 (17.10) months. Four complications in 3 eyes required a second 
operation; 15 postoperative laser procedures were performed. The mean health 
care cost per patient was $3437.24 ($1334.68). Using these data, the mean 
utility value of cataract surgery in this population was 0.80 (0.12); the 
quality-adjusted life-years gained, 2.43 (1.87); and the discounted ratio of 
cost to utility, $1889.16 ($4800.62).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These data support the success and cost-effectiveness 
of supervised, resident-performed cataract surgery in an underserved patient 
population. This study lends support for continuing this traditional scheme of 
surgical training and education. Further work must ensure that we remain aware 
of the balance between education and patient care.
