function in PD has been confirmed in a number of studies, in addition to its 
possible anti-dyskinetic effect, a number of reports have also outlined the 
possible beneficial effect of apomorphine on NMS. This review sets out to 
examine the efficacy of apomorphine in non-motor aspects of PD, including its 
effect on neuropsychiatric and gastrointestinal symptoms, sleep (including 
restless legs syndrome), urinary dysfunction, pain and impulse control 
disorders. The analysis takes into consideration case reports, and open-label 
and comparative case-control studies published to date. Results of this review 
suggest that although data on the effect of apomorphine on NMS in PD patients 
are limited there is a strong suggestion of a beneficial effect that warrants 
further investigation in double-blind studies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.parkreldis.2013.08.012
PMID: 24051336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. Ann Plast Surg. 2015 Apr;74(4):471-8. doi: 10.1097/SAP.0b013e31829fd306.

Complex ventral hernia repair using components separation with or without 
biologic mesh: a cost-utility analysis.

Chatterjee A(1), Krishnan NM, Rosen JM.

Author information:
(1)From the *Division of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, Dartmouth 
Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon; and †Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, 
Hanover, NH.

BACKGROUND: A complex ventral hernia requiring abdominal wall reconstruction 
presents a challenging scenario to the surgeon. The use of biologic mesh in 
addition to performing a components separation (CS) is controversial. Our goal 
was to perform the first cost-utility analysis on the use of biologic mesh in 
addition to performing CS when performing complex ventral hernia repair.
METHODS: A comprehensive literature review was conducted to identify published 
complication and recurrence rates for ventral hernia repairs requiring CS with 
or without biologic mesh. The probabilities of the most common complications 
were combined with Medicare Current Procedural Terminology reimbursement codes, 
diagnosis related group reimbursement codes, and expert utility estimates to fit 
into a decision model to evaluate the cost utility of CS with and without 
biologic mesh in reconstructing ventral hernias.
RESULTS: The decision model revealed a baseline cost increase of $775.65 and a 
0.0517 increase in the quality-adjusted life-years when using biologic mesh 
yielding an incremental cost-utility ratio of $15,002.90/quality-adjusted 
life-year. One-way sensitivity analysis revealed that using biologic mesh was 
cost-effective using Medicare reimbursement rates but not at retail costs. The 
maximum price of biologic mesh to be cost-effective was $1813.53.
CONCLUSIONS: The cost utility of biologic mesh when used with CS in ventral 
hernia repair is dependent on the financial perspective. It is cost-ineffective 
for hospitals and physicians paying retail costs but cost-effective for 
third-party payers providing Medicare reimbursement.

DOI: 10.1097/SAP.0b013e31829fd306
PMID: 24051454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. Cancer J. 2013 Sep-Oct;19(5):390-6. doi: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e3182a631a2.

Interventional treatment of refractory cancer pain.

Birthi P(1), Sloan P.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Anesthesiology, University of Kentucky Medical Center, 
Lexington, KY.

Recent advances in medical science have prolonged the life expectancy for many 
cancer patients. However, many studies demonstrate that cancer pain is a symptom 
for two thirds of patients in the advanced stages of the disease and nearly 
universal in the last 48 hours of life. Whereas most cancer patients can be 
effectively treated with conventional analgesics, 10% to 15% of patients require 
additional, and sometimes invasive, therapy. The most commonly used procedures 
for the treatment of this refractory cancer pain is the topic of review in this 
paper. Neurolytic blocks, such as celiac plexus and ganglion of impar block, are 
still used in the management of pain related to abdominal and pelvic cancers. 
Nondestructive interventional techniques include the use of epidural and 
intrathecal spinal analgesics. The efficacy, recommended medications, and 
adverse effect profile of these therapies are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1097/PPO.0b013e3182a631a2
PMID: 24051611 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


83. JAMA Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2013 Sep;139(9):944-6. doi: 
10.1001/jamaoto.2013.4036.

Glial choristoma of the temporal bone in a 7-month-old infant.

Dunham E(1), Armeni M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, West Virginia University, Morgantown.

IMPORTANCE: Heterotopic glial tissue is a rare, benign congenital anomaly that 
can present as a fibrous mass with or without overt signs of neural tissue 
origin, such as overlying alopecia, pigmentation, or a "hair collar" sign. These 
lesions are typically found in the midline area, though they have been found 
laterally involving the mastoid and middle ear regions. As demonstrated by this 
case report, a lateral scalp lesion may represent glial tissue even if 
fine-needle aspiration does not demonstrate neural findings.
OBSERVATIONS: This single case report represents a 7-month-old white infant who 
presented with a lateral scalp mass over the mastoid area. The mass enlarged as 
she grew, causing external auditory canal obstruction. Fine-needle aspiration 
demonstrated fibrovascular tissue, and computed tomographic imaging showed a 
small bony defect over the mastoid area but no intracranial communication. The 
final pathologic finding was consistent with glial choristoma, a rare, benign 
congenital lesion involving heterotopic neural tissue.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Congenital scalp lesions can represent heterotopic 
neural tissue and warrant complete evaluation prior to treatment; fine-needle 
aspiration biopsy is not necessarily reliable to rule out neurogenic origin, as 
demonstrated in this case. The possibility for intracranial extension should 
always be considered and fully evaluated with computed tomography or magnetic 
resonance imaging prior to operative intervention. Most prior published case 
reports of heterotopic glial tissue involving the mastoid and/or middle ear 
spaces describe adults and suggest that such lesions were acquired later in 
life. This report of a lateral glial choristoma overlying the mastoid bone in an 
infant supports a congenital origin of this lesion.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaoto.2013.4036
PMID: 24051750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Gerontologist. 2015 Jun;55(3):360-73. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnt105. Epub 2013
Sep  19.

Redirection: an extension of career during retirement.

Cook SL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Youth and Life Course Studies, York University, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada. cooks@yorku.ca.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: This study explores (a) whether retirees' formal volunteer 
experiences represent an extension of their career in the paid workforce; and 
(b) how this integration of life roles affects career self-concept, as 
interpreted through Donald Super's life-span, life-space theory of career 
development.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A survey was conducted involving a Canadian sample of 214 
individuals aged 55-75 years to examine retirees' volunteer activities and their 
sense of self.
RESULTS: The results demonstrate the need to further develop Super's theory with 
the addition of a new developmental stage, which I am labeling "Redirection" to 
better reflect postretirement experiences. During "Redirection," retirees 
develop a "new self."
IMPLICATIONS: This study indicates that retirees experienced a new stage of 
"Redirection" and found new meaning through volunteer work during retirement. 
The results will be of interest to professionals and researchers focused on 
career development, older workers, and retirement.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnt105
PMID: 24052202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Pituitary. 2014 Jan;17 Suppl 1(Suppl 1):S18-23. doi:
10.1007/s11102-013-0519-8.

Patient-focussed outcomes in acromegaly.

Guitelman M(1), Abreu A, Espinosa-de-los-Monteros AL, Mercado M.

Author information:
(1)División Endocrinología, Hospital Carlos G. Durand, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

BACKGROUND: Health-related quality of life (QoL) is severely impaired in 
acromegaly due to the physical and psychological consequences of the disease. 
Pharmacological and surgical treatments, when available, can improve QoL and 
life expectancy.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 34-year-old male with uncontrolled acromegaly due to a large 
and invasive macroadenoma, which could not be resected by transsphenoidal 
surgery. Over 9 years, he had limited access to pharmacological interventions 
and persisted with clinically and biochemically active disease, with severe 
co-morbidities and a poor QoL, which eventually lead to a premature sudden 
death.
CONCLUSION: This case highlights the impact that active acromegaly has when 
treatment resources are limited. We review the factors contributing to poor QoL 
in this disease, with special reference to the Latin American scenario.

DOI: 10.1007/s11102-013-0519-8
PMCID: PMC3906543
PMID: 24052243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2015 Feb;32(1):68-77. doi: 10.1177/1049909113504241. 
Epub 2013 Sep 19.

Preferences of patients with Parkinson's disease for communication about 
advanced care planning.

Tuck KK(1), Brod L(2), Nutt J(2), Fromme EK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, 
USA tuck@ohsu.edu.
(2)Department of Neurology, Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, OR, 
USA.
(3)Division of Hematology & Medical Oncology, Knight Cancer Institute, Oregon 
Health & Science University, Portland, OR, USA.

BACKGROUND: Despite shortening life, Parkinson's disease (PD) is often not 
considered "terminal." Uncertainty exists about when to discuss end-of-life 
planning.
METHODS: A survey was sent to patients with PD assessing attitudes toward the 
timing and initiation of discussions regarding their disease. Data were analyzed 
for patient preferences regarding communication.
RESULTS: Of 585 surveys, 267 were returned. Ninety-four percent of patients 
wanted prognosis and treatment information early. Half of the patients wanted to 
discuss advanced care documents early. Some wanted early discussions about 
end-of-life care planning (27%) or end-of-life care options such as hospice 
(21%). The majority felt shared responsibility for initiating discussions about 
life expectancy, advance care documents, and end-of-life care planning.
CONCLUSIONS: Preferences regarding end-of-life discussions vary. Consequently, 
neurologists should ask patients about their preferences for this information 
and offer discussion periodically.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909113504241
PMID: 24052430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Bull World Health Organ. 2013 Jun 1;91(6):416-425C. doi:
10.2471/BLT.12.114454.  Epub 2013 Apr 3.

Use of data from registered clinical trials to identify gaps in health research 
and development.

Viergever RF(1), Terry RF, Karam G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary and Community Care, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical 
Centre, Nijmegen, Netherlands .

Erratum in
    Bull World Health Organ. 2013 Nov 1;91(11):896.

OBJECTIVE: To explore what can be learnt about the current composition of the 
"global landscape" of health research and development (R&D) from data on the 
World Health Organization's International Clinical Trials Registry Platform 
(ICTRP).
METHODS: A random 5% sample of the records of clinical trials that were 
registered as interventional and actively recruiting was taken from the ICTRP 
database.
FINDINGS: Overall, 2381 records of trials were investigated. Analysis of these 
records indicated that, for every million disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
caused by communicable, maternal, perinatal and nutritional conditions, by 
noncommunicable diseases, or by injuries, the ICTRP database contained an 
estimated 7.4, 52.4 and 6.0 trials in which these causes of burden of disease 
were being investigated, respectively. For every million DALYs in high-income, 
upper-middle-income, lower-middle-income and low-income countries, an estimated 
292.7, 13.4, 3.0 and 0.8 registered trials, respectively, were recruiting in 
such countries.
CONCLUSION: The ICTRP constitutes a valuable resource for assessing the global 
distribution of clinical trials and for informing policy development for health 
R&D. Populations in lower-income countries receive much less attention, in terms 
of clinical trial research, than populations in higher-income countries.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Étudier et, dans la mesure du possible, connaître la 
composition actuelle du «paysage mondial» en termes de recherche et de 
développement (R&D) dans le domaine de la santé à partir de données provenant du 
système d’enregistrement international des essais cliniques de l’Organisation 
mondiale de la Santé (ICTRP).
MÉTHODES: Un échantillon aléatoire de 5% des enregistrements des essais 
cliniques qui ont été référencés comme étant interventionnels et recrutant 
activement des patients a été obtenu de la base de données de l’ICTRP.
RÉSULTATS: Dans l’ensemble, 2381 enregistrements d’essais ont été étudiés. Leur 
analyse a montré que pour chaque million d’années de vie corrigées du facteur 
incapacité (AVCI) causées par des pathologies transmissibles, maternelles, 
périnatales et des déficiences nutritionnelles, par des maladies non 
transmissibles ou par des blessures, la base de données de l’ICTRP contenait 
respectivement environ 7,4, 52,4 et 6,0 essais dont les causes contributives à 
la charge de morbidité étaient en cours d’étude. Pour chaque million d’AVCI dans 
les pays à revenu élevé, à revenu intermédiaire de la tranche supérieure, à 
revenu intermédiaire de la tranche inférieure et à faible revenu, il a été 
estimé qu’environ 292,7, 13,4, 3,0 et 0,8 essais enregistrés, respectivement, 
recrutaient des patients dans ces pays.
CONCLUSION: L’ICTRP constitue une ressource précieuse afin d'évaluer la 
distribution mondiale des essais cliniques, et une excellente source 
d’informations sur l’évolution des politiques de recherche et de développement 
dans le domaine médical. Les populations des pays à revenu faible bénéficient 
d’une attention bien moindre en matière de recherche axée sur les essais 
cliniques que les populations des pays à revenu élevé.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Analizar qué se puede aprender acerca de la composición 
actual del «paisaje global» de la investigación y desarrollo sanitarios (I+D) a 
partir de datos de la plataforma de registros internacionales de ensayos 
clínicos (ICTRP, por sus siglas en inglés) de la Organización Mundial de la 
Salud.
MÉTODOS: Por medio de un alistamiento activo se tomó una muestra aleatoria del 
5% de los expedientes de los ensayos clínicos registrados como intervencionistas 
de la base de datos de la ICTRP.
RESULTADOS: En total, se investigaron 2381 expedientes. El análisis de dichos 
expedientes indicó que, por cada millón de años de vida potencialmente perdidos 
(AVPP) causados por enfermedades transmisibles, maternas, perinatales y 
nutricionales, por enfermedades no transmisibles o por lesiones, la base de 
datos de la ICTRP contenía aproximadamente 7,4, 52,4 y 6,0 ensayos, 
respectivamente, en los que se investigaban las causas de esas cargas de 
morbilidad. Por cada millón de AVPP en países con ingresos altos, medios-altos, 
medios-bajos y bajos, se alistaron aproximadamente 292,7, 13,4, 3,0 y 0,8 
ensayos registrados en dichos países.
CONCLUSIÓN: La ICTRP constituye un recurso valioso para evaluar la distribución 
global de los ensayos clínicos y para informar sobre el desarrollo de políticas 
para el I+D sanitarios. Las poblaciones en países con ingresos bajos reciben 
mucha menos atención, en términos de investigación de ensayos clínicos, que las 
poblaciones en países con ingresos más altos.

Publisher: الغرض: استعراض الدروس التي يمكن الاستفادة منها بشأن التكوين الراهن 
"للمشهد العالمي" للبحث والتطوير في مجال الصحة من البيانات المعنية بالبرنامج 
الدولي لتسجيل التجارب السريرية التابع لمنظمة الصحة العالمية (ICTRP).
الطريقة: تم أخذ عينة عشوائية نسبتها 5 % من سجلات التجارب السريرية التي تم 
تسجيلها باعتبارها تدخلية وتوظيفية على نحو نشط من قاعدة بيانات البرنامج الدولي 
لتسجيل التجارب السريرية.
النتائج: بشكل إجمالي، تم فحص 2381 سجلاً من التجارب. وأشار تحليل هذه السجلات إلى 
أنه بالنسبة لكل مليون سنة من سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز الناجمة عن 
الاعتلالات السارية واعتلالات الأمومة واعتلالات الفترة المحيطة بالولادة 
والاعتلالات التغذوية أو عن الأمراض غير السارية أو عن الإصابات، فقد احتوت قاعدة 
بيانات البرنامج الدولي لتسجيل التجارب السريرية وفق التقديرات على 7.4 و52.4 و6.0 
تجربة تم تحري أسباب عبء المرض هذه فيها، على التوالي. وبالنسبة لكل مليون سنة من 
سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز في البلدان المرتفعة الدخل والشريحة العليا 
من البلدان المتوسطة الدخل والشريحة الدنيا من البلدان المتوسطة الدخل والبلدان 
المنخفضة الدخل، تم توظيف 292.7 و13.4 و3.0 و0.8 تجربة مسجلة في هذه البلدان على 
التوالي.
الاستنتاج: يشكل البرنامج الدولي لتسجيل التجارب السريرية مورداً قيماً لتقييم 
التوزيع العالمي للتجارب السريرية وتزويد عملية وضع السياسات بالمعلومات من أجل 
البحث والتطوير في مجال الصحة. ويحظى السكان في البلدان المنخفضة الدخل بقدر أقل من 
الاهتمام، من حيث البحث في التجارب السريرية، عن السكان في البلدان المرتفعة الدخل.

Publisher: 目的: 根据世界卫生组织的国际临床试验注册平台（ICTRP）的数据，探索卫生研发（R&D）“全球景观”的当前组成能够带来哪些讯息。
方法: 在ICTRP数据库以介入式和主动招募方式注册的临床试验记录中随机抽取5%的样本。
结果: 总计调查了2381 
个试验记录。对这些记录的分析表明：对于因传染性、母体遗传、围产期和营养条件、因非传染性疾病或者因受伤造成的每百万残疾调整生命年（DALY），ICTRP数据库估计分别包含有7.4、52.4 
和6.0 项正在其中调查这些疾病负担原因的试验。在高收入、中高收入、中低收入和低收入国家中，每百万DALY中分别估计招募有292.7、13.4、3.0 和0.8 
项注册试验。
结论: ICTRP是评估全球临床试验分布以及制订翔实卫生研发政策的宝贵资源。就临床试验研究而言，较之高收入国家人口，低收入国家人口得到的关注要少得多。

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ: Изучить доступную информацию о текущем глобальном распределении 
научных исследований и разработок в области здравоохранения на основе данных 
Международной платформы для регистрации клинических испытаний (МПРКИ) Всемирной 
организации здравоохранения.
МЕТОДЫ: Проведена случайная пятипроцентная выборка протоколов клинических 
испытаний из базы данных МПРКИ, зарегистрированных как интервенционные и с 
активным набором участников.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Всего было изучено 2381 протоколов испытаний. Анализ данных 
протоколов показал, что на каждый миллион лет жизни, скорректированных на 
инвалидность (индекс DALYs), обусловленных а) инфекционными заболеваниями, 
состоянием материнского и перинатального здоровья и условиями питания; б) 
неинфекционными заболеваниями и в) травмами, в базе данных содержится 
приблизительно 7,4, 52,4 и 6,0 испытаний, в которых исследовались причины 
бремени болезней, соответствующие указанным группам. В то же время, на каждый 
миллион лет жизни, скорректированных на инвалидность, приблизительное число 
зарегистрированных в базе данных исследований, в которых производился набор 
участников, в странах с высоким уровнем доходов, выше среднего, ниже среднего и 
с низким уровнем доходов составило 292,7, 13,4, 3,0 и 0,8 соответственно.
ВЫВОД: Платформа МПРКИ представляет собой ценный ресурс для оценки глобального 
распределения клинических испытаний и информирования о выработке стратегии для 
научно-исследовательских и опытно-конструкторских разработок в области 
здравоохранения. Населению в странах более низкими уровнями доходов уделяется 
намного меньше внимания при проведении клинических исследований, чем населению в 
странах с высоким уровнем доходов.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.12.114454
PMCID: PMC3777147
PMID: 24052678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Przegl Lek. 2013;70(6):404-6.

[Diabetes type 2--criteria concerning the recognition and prevention, as well as 
therapeutic targets in the light of research results and guidelines formulated 
by the American Diabetes Association in 2012].

[Article in Polish]

Kucharska E(1).

Author information:
(1)Centrum Medyczne Vadimed, Kraków.

The article summarizes the current state of knowledge on the detection of 
pre-diabetic condition and type 2 diabetes, as well as therapeutic purposes. ADA 
guidelines published in January 2012, in line with the earlier experts' findings 
allow the detection of diabetes on the basis of HbA1C (> or = 6.5%) marking. 
Moreover, there are still applicable criteria that impose the following methods 
of blood glucose level monitoring: fasted, and 2 hours after a 75 gram of oral 
glucose intake. Screening for diabetes type 2 is indicated especially in obese 
patients and patients with arterial hypertension. This includes also those, in 
whom a prediabetic condition is found, and who would benefit most from their 
lifestyle modification, or from pharmacological diabetes prevention with the use 
of metformin. The results of clinical trials and recent meta-analyses indicate 
that for most patients, the therapeutic goal in the treatment of diabetes may be 
less precise than it was previously thought, and for HbA1C it is < 7.0%. An 
individualized approach is, however, advised, as patients with respect to whom a 
short period of time has elapsed after diabetes was diagnosed in them, young 
people and those with a high life expectancy and low hypoglycemia risk may 
benefit from a stricter controlling regime (< 6.5%).

PMID: 24052979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. BJU Int. 2013 Dec;112(8):1169-77. doi: 10.1111/bju.12388.

Comparison of an adjustable anchored single-incision mini-sling, Ajust(®) , with 
a standard mid-urethral sling, TVT-O(TM) : a health economic evaluation.

Boyers D(1), Kilonzo M, Mostafa A, Abdel-Fattah M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK; Health 
Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2014 Jul;192(1):158.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost, quality of life (QoL) and cost-effectiveness of 
a single-incision mini-sling (SIMS; Ajust(®) , C. R. Bard Inc., New Providence, 
NJ, USA) compared with a standard mid-urethral sling (SMUS; TVT-O™, Ethicon 
Inc., Somerville, NJ, USA) in the surgical management of female stress urinary 
incontinence.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A total of 137 women, in a secondary care setting, were 
randomized between October 2009 and October 2011 to undergo SIMS placement (n = 
69) under local anaesthesia as an opt-out policy or SMUS placement (n = 68) 
under general anaesthesia. Clinical outcome measures included the 
patient-reported success rate (Patient Global Impression of Improvement [PGI-I]) 
and the impact on the patients' QoL (King's Health Questionnaire [KHQ]). Health 
economic data (cost and quality-adjusted life year [QALY] data) were compared 
using linear regression models to generate an incremental cost per QALY 
estimate, in order to determine a measure of cost-effectiveness. Deterministic 
sensitivity analyses investigated uncertainty in the results, and non-parametric 
bootstrapping techniques were used to estimate a probability of 
cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between the groups in terms of 
the KHQ total score (P = 0.27) or the patient-reported success rate (P = 1.00, 
odds ratio: 0.895; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.344 to 2.330). There was no 
significant difference in QALYs for the SIMS group compared with the SMUS group 
(mean difference: -0.003; 95% CI: -0.008 to +0.002). The SIMS was on average 
less costly, -£142.41 95% CI: (-316.99 to 32.17) and generated cost savings of 
£48 419 per QALY loss with 94% probability of cost savings to the health 
services. Taking a wider perspective on the costing analysis by including the 
wider community benefit associated with the significantly earlier return to work 
observed in the SIMS group (P = 0.006, 95% CI: 11.756 to 17.217), there was an 
increase in cost savings to -£477, (95% CI: -823.65 to -129.63), with a 
probability of 100% of cost savings to the wider economy.
CONCLUSIONS: The adjustable anchored SIMS (Ajust), performed under local 
anaesthesia as an opt-out policy, delivers cost savings to the health service 
provider when compared with the SMUS (TVT-O), and is likely to be cost-effective 
up to 1 year after placement. Further research should be undertaken to confirm 
the results of our study over longer follow-up and should explore patient 
preferences alongside an adequately powered non-inferiority randomized 
controlled trial.

© 2013 The Authors. BJU International © 2013 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/bju.12388
PMID: 24053310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. Trials. 2013 Sep 21;14:302. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-302.

Lifestyle Matters for maintenance of health and wellbeing in people aged 65 
years and over: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.

Sprange K(1), Mountain GA, Brazier J, Cook SP, Craig C, Hind D, Walters SJ, 
Windle G, Woods R, Keetharuth AD, Chater T, Horner K.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Regent Court, Regent Street, Sheffield S1 4DA, England, UK. 
k.sprange@sheffield.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Healthy, active ageing is strongly associated with good mental 
wellbeing which in turn helps to prevent mental illness. However, more 
investment has been made into research into interventions to prevent mental 
illness than into those designed to improve mental wellbeing. This applied 
research programme will provide high quality evidence for an intervention 
designed to improve and sustain mental wellbeing in older adults.
METHODS/DESIGN: This study was a multi-centre, pragmatic, two-arm, parallel 
group, individually randomised controlled trial to determine the population 
benefit of an occupational therapy based intervention for community living 
people aged 65 years or older. Participants (n = 268) will be identified in one 
city in the North of England and in North Wales through GP mail-outs, 
signposting by local authority, primary care staff and voluntary sector 
organisations and through community engagement. Participants will be randomised 
to one of two treatment arms: an intervention (Lifestyle Matters programme); or 
control (routine access to health and social care). All participants will be 
assessed at baseline, 6 and 24 months post-randomisation. The primary outcome, 
which is a person reported outcome, is the SF-36 Mental Health dimension at six 
months post randomisation. Secondary outcome measures have been selected to 
measure psychosocial, physical and mental health outcomes. They include other 
dimensions of the SF36, EQ-5D-3L, Brief Resilience Scale, General Perceived Self 
Efficacy Scale, PHQ-9, de Jong Gierveld Loneliness Scale, Health and Social Care 
Resource Use and the wellbeing question of the Integrated Household Survey 2011. 
A cost effectiveness analysis will investigate the incremental cost per Quality 
Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) of the Lifestyle Matters intervention compared with 
treatment as usual.
DISCUSSION: The questions being posed through this research are important given 
the increasing numbers of older people, pressure on the public purse and the 
associated need to support good health in the extended lifespan. The proposed 
trial will determine the clinical and cost effectiveness of the intervention 
delivered in a UK context. The results will support commissioners and providers 
with decisions about implementation.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN67209155.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-302
PMCID: PMC3849528
PMID: 24053549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


91. Trials. 2013 Sep 22;14:305. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-305.

The cost-effectiveness of a family meetings intervention to prevent depression 
and anxiety in family caregivers of patients with dementia: a randomized trial.

Joling KJ(1), Bosmans JE, van Marwijk HW, van der Horst HE, Scheltens P, MacNeil 
Vroomen JL, van Hout HP.

Author information:
(1)Department of General Practice and Elderly Care Medicine, VU University 
Medical Centre, EMGO + Institute for Health and Health Care Research, Van der 
Boechorststraat 7, 1081, BT Amsterdam, The Netherlands. k.joling@vumc.nl.

BACKGROUND: Dementia imposes a heavy burden on health and social care systems as 
well as on family caregivers who provide a substantial portion of the care. 
Interventions that effectively support caregivers may prevent or delay patient 
institutionalization and hence be cost-effective. However, evidence about the 
cost-effectiveness of such interventions is scarce. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a family meetings intervention for family 
caregivers of dementia patients in comparison with usual care over a period of 
12 months.
METHODS: The economic evaluation was conducted from a societal perspective 
alongside a randomized trial of 192 primary caregivers with community-dwelling 
dementia patients. Outcome measures included the Quality Adjusted Life-Years 
(QALY) of caregivers and patients and the incidence of depression and anxiety 
disorders in caregivers. Missing cost and effect data were imputed using 
multiple imputations. Bootstrapping was used to estimate uncertainty around the 
cost-differences and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). The 
bootstrapped cost-effect pairs were plotted on a cost-effectiveness plane and 
used to estimate cost-effectiveness curves.
RESULTS: No significant differences in costs and effects between the groups were 
found. At 12 months, total costs per patient and primary caregiver dyad were 
substantial: €77,832 for the intervention group and €75,201 for the usual care 
group (adjusted mean difference per dyad €4,149, 95% CI -13,371 to 21,956, ICER 
157,534). The main cost driver was informal care (66% of total costs), followed 
by patients' day treatment and costs of hospital and long-term care facility 
admissions (23%). Based on the cost-effectiveness acceptability curves, the 
maximum probability that the intervention was considered cost-effective in 
comparison with usual care reached 0.4 for the outcome QALY per 
patient-caregiver dyad and 0.6 for the caregivers' incidence of depression 
and/or anxiety disorders regardless of the willingness to pay.
CONCLUSIONS: The annual costs of caring for a person with dementia were 
substantial with informal care being by far the largest contributor to the total 
societal costs. Based on this study, family meetings cannot be considered a 
cost-effective intervention strategy in comparison with usual care.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN register, ISRCTN90163486.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-305
PMCID: PMC3849827
PMID: 24053631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. Crit Care. 2013 Sep 20;17(5):189. doi: 10.1186/cc13014.

Is prolonged mechanical ventilation of cancer patients futile?

Toffart AC, Timsit JF.

Comment on
    Crit Care. 2013;17(4):R144.

The issue of limiting life-sustaining treatments for intensive care unit (ICU) 
patients is complex. The ethical principles applied by ICU staff when making 
treatment-limitation decisions must comply with the law of their country. Until 
2011, the law in Taiwan prohibited the withdrawal of mechanical ventilation. 
Consequently, patients with severe underlying diseases could receive prolonged 
mechanical ventilation. In a study conducted by Shih and colleagues in patients 
with cancer in Taiwan, continuous mechanical ventilation for more than 21 days 
was associated with poor outcomes, particularly in the subgroups of patients 
with metastases, lung cancer, or liver cancer. These results highlight the need 
for appropriate legislation regarding the withdrawal of life-sustaining 
treatments in patients, especially those for whom no effective cancer treatments 
are available.

DOI: 10.1186/cc13014
PMCID: PMC4056103
PMID: 24053905 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Int J Hyg Environ Health. 2014 Mar;217(2-3):399-404. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijheh.2013.07.014. Epub 2013 Aug 23.

QALY as evaluation tool in a health surveillance program.

Esser A(1), Gube M(2), Schettgen T(2), Kraus T(2), Lang J(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Occupational Medicine and Social Medicine, RWTH Aachen 
University, Aachen, Germany(1). Electronic address: anesser@ukaachen.de.
(2)Institute for Occupational Medicine and Social Medicine, RWTH Aachen 
University, Aachen, Germany(1).

BACKGROUND: Quality adjusted life years (QALYs), based on health related quality 
of life (HRQL), are a commonly used concept in health economics. The aim of this 
study was to apply the concept of QALY to the evaluation of a surveillance 
program for health related effects of PCB exposure and measure the impact of 
occupational PCB-exposure on the remaining QALYs of participants.
METHODS: The internal PCB exposure was determined by gas chromatography with 
mass spectrometry in plasma. The HRQOL was assessed via the EQ-5D-3L instrument 
and combined with the remaining lifetime (RLE) at the time point of cessation of 
exposure. For comparative reasons we used both the linear calculation and the 
complex-number-model from Prieto and Sacristan. The impact of several PCB 
congeners was regressed on the percentage of discounted QALYs on RLE via 
hierarchical multiple regression, controlling for gender, relational and 
educational status.
RESULTS: Findings were able to detect a small but significant effect of elevated 
plasma levels of PCB on QALY for the linear calculation and partially for the 
complex number calculation. This means that an internal exposure to PCB reduced 
HRQOL in the RLE of participants in the surveillance program.
CONCLUSION: QALYs can be applied successfully to monitor HRQL effects in 
surveillance programs. The exposure to a hazardous substance has an influence on 
QALYs. Findings have to be interpreted as a first hint. In the following 
assessment it has to be monitored whether there is an improvement or worsening 
of HRQL.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijheh.2013.07.014
PMID: 24054544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Lancet. 2013 Dec 21;382(9910):2069-76. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61603-7.
Epub  2013 Sep 18.

A structured training programme for caregivers of inpatients after stroke 
(TRACS): a cluster randomised controlled trial and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Forster A(1), Dickerson J(2), Young J(2), Patel A(3), Kalra L(4), Nixon J(5), 
Smithard D(4), Knapp M(6), Holloway I(5), Anwar S(5), Farrin A(5); TRACS Trial 
Collaboration.

Collaborators: Forster A, Young J, Dickerson J, Patel A, Kalra L, Smithard D, 
Nixon J, Knapp M, Holloway I, Anwar S, Farrin A, Langhorne P, Drummond A, Hood 
K, Rodgers H, Wade D, Bowen A, Norrie J, Melbourn A, Steadman J, Wittink M, 
Mawyer S, Williamson S, Garnett P, Waywell K, Howard J, Goddard H, Preston S, 
McIlmoyle J, O'Donnell MJ, Ayers T, Barron L, Bowring A, Seebass G, Shakir I, 
Button C, Greig J, Nicholson D, Barber M, Smith T, Finn P, Coltman S, Courtald 
G, Connife-Jones S, Davies P, Hagon C, Pearce L, Hussein S, Daniels T, Hancock 
J, Datta P, Bateman G, Mallinder K, Chatterjee K, Kelly C, James K, Child C, 
Kawafi K, Bell A, Moulton S, Curley C, Brotheridge S, Strover J, Norton A, Wray 
A, Moss S, Stevens J, Marsh R, Barberan E, Baht H, Bourne B, Kalra L, Jay E, 
Potter C, Davies A, Murtagh AM, Fitzpatrick M, Davison C, Rooney H, Simpson B, 
Bailey S, Gompertz P, Sachs T, Kariuki H, Gatehouse C, Hyams B, Brown C, 
Truscott R, Allison R, Wedge N, Thomas S, Beck A, Nott H, Walker E, Parnell S, 
Carpenter M, Needle A, Holland C, Newton V, Doran AM, Guna G, Idris J, Jones S, 
Powell S, Thomas N, Namushi R, Saravanan N, Okwera J, McNulty K, Strachan L, 
Paterson J, Rose R, Jamieson S, Sellers M, Davidson A, Foden M, Beadle L, Jones 
A, Palmer R, Ross S, Draper C, Harper A, Breeds J, Spurling G, Stephenson K, 
Duff H, Marshall M, Wright S, Lawrence R, Gowda V, Dealing S, Brown R, Ledger A, 
Fletcher G, Irving R, Patterson C, Johnston L, Stevens J, Walshaw D, Adams A, 
Oxley S, Rudd A, Martin H, Bacabac E, Sutton V, Orugun O, Jolly R, Saunders G, 
Dymond H, Smithard D, Reid A, Glanfield S, Caudwell L, Coyle J, Iveson E, Rhymes 
C, Keeling M, Craigie S, Heppel J.

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Elderly Care and Rehabilitation, Bradford Teaching Hospitals 
NHS Foundation Trust and University of Leeds, Bradford, UK. Electronic address: 
a.forster@leeds.ac.uk.
(2)Academic Unit of Elderly Care and Rehabilitation, Bradford Teaching Hospitals 
NHS Foundation Trust and University of Leeds, Bradford, UK.
(3)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK.
(4)Department of Stroke Medicine, King's College London, London, UK.
(5)Clinical Trials Research Unit, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(6)Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, London, UK; Personal Social 
Services Research Unit, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
London, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Dec 21;382(9910):2043-4.
    Aust Occup Ther J. 2014 Jun;61(3):210-1.

BACKGROUND: Most patients who have had a stroke are dependent on informal 
caregivers for activities of daily living. The TRACS trial investigated a 
training programme for caregivers (the London Stroke Carers Training Course, 
LSCTC) on physical and psychological outcomes, including cost-effectiveness, for 
patients and caregivers after a disabling stroke.
METHODS: We undertook a pragmatic, multicentre, cluster randomised controlled 
trial with a parallel cost-effectiveness analysis. Stroke units were eligible if 
four of five criteria used to define a stroke unit were met, a substantial 
number of patients on the unit had a diagnosis of stroke, staff were able to 
deliver the LSCTC, and most patients were discharged to a permanent place of 
residence. Stroke units were randomly assigned to either LSCTC or usual care 
(control group), stratified by geographical region and quality of care, and 
using blocks of size 2. Patients with a diagnosis of stroke, likely to return 
home with residual disability and with a caregiver providing support were 
eligible. The primary outcome for patients was self-reported extended activities 
of daily living at 6 months, measured with the Nottingham Extended Activities of 
Daily Living (NEADL) scale. The primary outcome for caregivers was self-reported 
burden at 6 months, measured with the caregivers burden scale (CBS). We combined 
patient and caregiver costs with primary outcomes and quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) to assess cost-effectiveness. This trial is registered with 
controlled-trials.com, number ISRCTN 49208824.
FINDINGS: We assessed 49 stroke units for eligibility, of which 36 were randomly 
assigned to either the intervention group or the control group. Between Feb 27, 
2008, and Feb 9, 2010, 928 patient and caregiver dyads were registered, of which 
450 were in the intervention group, and 478 in the control group. Patients' 
self-reported extended activities of daily living did not differ between groups 
at 6 months (adjusted mean NEADL score 27·4 in the intervention group versus 
27·6 in the control group, difference -0·2 points [95% CI -3·0 to 2·5], p 
value=0·866, ICC=0·027). The caregiver burden scale did not differ between 
groups either (adjusted mean CBS 45·5 in the intervention group versus 45·0 in 
the control group, difference 0·5 points [95% CI -1·7 to 2·7], p value=0·660, 
ICC=0·013). Patient and caregiver costs were similar in both groups (length of 
the initial stroke admission and associated costs were £13,127 for the 
intervention group and £12,471 for the control group; adjusted mean difference 
£1243 [95% CI -1533 to 4019]; p value=0·380). Probabilities of 
cost-effectiveness based on QALYs were low.
INTERPRETATION: In a large scale, robust evaluation, results from this study 
have shown no differences between the LSCTC and usual care on any of the 
assessed outcomes. The immediate period after stroke might not be the ideal time 
to deliver structured caregiver training.
FUNDING: Medical Research Council.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61603-7
PMID: 24054816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


95. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Aug;27(4):465. doi: 
10.1016/j.beem.2013.08.004. Epub 2013 Sep 4.

Life expectancy of humans is increasing.

Huhtaniemi I(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Reproductive & Developmental Biology (IRDB), Faculty of 
Medicine, Imperial College London, Hammersmith Campus, Du Cane Road, London W12 
0NN, United Kingdom. Electronic address: ilpo.huhtaniemi@imperial.ac.uk.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2013.08.004
PMID: 24054924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


96. Best Pract Res Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Aug;27(4):467-79. doi: 
10.1016/j.beem.2013.05.016. Epub 2013 Jun 22.

Gender and longevity: why do men die earlier than women? Comparative and 
experimental evidence.

Regan JC(1), Partridge L.

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Healthy Ageing, UCL, Gower St., London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Sex differences in lifespan exist world-wide, with women outliving men by more 
than a decade in some countries. The gender gap is not a uniquely human 
phenomenon; most sexually reproducing species examined show sex differences in 
patterns of ageing, yet a comprehensive explanation does not exist. Here, we 
discuss how ageing responds to natural selection on traits that arise as a 
consequence of sexuality. Sexual dimorphisms in vertebrates are mediated by 
sex-steroids, such as androgens and oestrogens, and we examine their regulation 
of biological processes that can affect ageing and lifespan. The sexes can 
respond differently to dietary restriction and altered activity of 
nutrient-sensing pathways, with females showing a greater plasticity for life 
extension. We suggest that the cross-regulation of steroid hormone and 
nutrient-sensing signalling pathways is a promising process for further study in 
understanding the biological basis for the gender gap.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beem.2013.05.016
PMID: 24054925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


97. J Shoulder Elbow Surg. 2013 Dec;22(12):1710-23. doi:
10.1016/j.jse.2013.06.012.  Epub 2013 Sep 20.

Unreconstructable acute distal humeral fractures and their sequelae treated with 
distal humeral hemiarthroplasty: a two-year to eleven-year follow-up.

Smith GC(1), Hughes JS.

Author information:
(1)Sydney Orthopaedic Arthritis and Sports Medicine, Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
Electronic address: gcssmith@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to describe for the first time the medium 
to long-term outcome after distal humeral hemiarthroplasty (DHH).
METHODS: Twenty-six patients (mean age, 62; range, 29-92 years) treated with DHH 
for intra-articular distal humeral fractures and its sequelae were studied 
retrospectively.
RESULTS: Four patients had died and 4 had been revised to total elbow 
arthroplasty: 2 for periprosthetic fractures and 2 for primary component 
loosening (all in prostheses without an anterior flange). Six other 
complications had occurred: ulnar neuritis, 4; stiffness, 1; and wound necrosis, 
1. Seventeen patients underwent assessment at a mean of 80 months after surgery. 
The mean values of the American Shoulder and Elbow Surgeons (ASES) elbow score 
(pain, 9.93; function, 25; satisfaction, 9.06); Mayo Elbow Performance Score 
(90); Quick Disabilities of Arm, Shoulder and Hand (19), and EuroQol EQ5D 
(Index, 0.84; Visual Analog Scale, 80) outcome measures demonstrated good 
function and satisfaction with little pain. The mean flexion extension arc was 
116°. There was no evidence of instability. Radiologic evidence of ulnar wear 
was seen in 13 patients and may be related to prosthetic design to some extent. 
Worse wear was associated with a higher ASES pain score, lower satisfaction 
score, and lower EuroQoL Visual Analog Scale of quality of life. Degree of wear 
correlates with time after surgery but not with age at the time of surgery.
CONCLUSION: DHH offers a treatment option for unreconstructable distal humeral 
fractures and is associated with a good long-term outcome.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV, case series, treatment study.

Copyright © 2013 Journal of Shoulder and Elbow Surgery Board of Trustees. 
Published by Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jse.2013.06.012
PMID: 24054974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Eur J Radiol. 2013 Dec;82(12):e816-22. doi: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2013.08.046. Epub
 2013 Sep 1.

Transarterial chemoembolisation (TACE) with gemcitabine: phase II study in 
patients with liver metastases of breast cancer.

Eichler K(1), Jakobi S, Gruber-Rouh T, Hammerstingl R, Vogl TJ, Zangos S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Diagnostic and Interventional Radiology, University of 
Frankfurt, Germany. Electronic address: k.eichler@em.uni-frankfurt.de.

OBJECTIVE: Evaluation of the efficacy and tolerability of transarterial 
chemoembolization with gemcitabine in patients with inoperable liver metastases 
of breast cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Open-label, prospective non-randomized single-center 
study design; patients had previous chemotherapy including anthracyclines and/or 
taxanes in the metastatic setting, adequate bone marrow reserve, sufficient 
liver/renal function, no centralnervous system metastases, 
Karnovsky-performance-status >70%, and life expectancy >12 weeks. Forty-three 
patients were enrolled (median 58 years, range 48-71). A suspension of 
gemcitabine 1.200mg/m(2), 2-10 ml/m(2) of Lipiodol, and 5 ml of a degradable 
starch microsphere (Embocept) suspension, were administered intra-arterially up 
to 3 times with a 4-weaks-interval. Dose-limiting toxicit is defined as grade 4 
thrombocytopenia, neutropenia, or nonhematologic toxicity>grade 3. Tumor 
response was evaluated by magnetic resonance (MRI) and computed tomography (CT) 
imaging.
RESULTS: All patients tolerated the treatment well; with no dose limiting 
toxicities. Imaging follow-up according to the RECIST-criteria (Response 
Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumors) revealed a partial response in 3 patients, 
stable disease in 16 patients and progression in 22 patients. The progression 
free survival was 3.3 months. A significant correlation exists only with the 
factor vascularization: strongly vascularized tumors show a significantly 
lowered response. Patients with complete or partial response and the main 
fraction of the stable disease group showed in the MRI and angiography only a 
moderate vascularization. The resulting estimate of the total survival rate 
amounts to a median of 10.2 months.
CONCLUSION: Transarterial chemoembolization with gemcitabine is well tolerated 
and provides an alternative treatment method for patients with liver metastases 
of breast cancer.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejrad.2013.08.046
PMID: 24055389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Cell Signal. 2014 Jan;26(1):9-18. doi: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2013.08.036. Epub
2013  Sep 19.

RACK1 promotes neurite outgrowth by scaffolding AGAP2 to FAK.

Dwane S(1), Durack E, O'Connor R, Kiely PA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences and Materials and Surface Science Institute, 
University of Limerick, Limerick, Ireland.

RACK1 binds proteins in a constitutive or transient manner and supports signal 
transmission by engaging in diverse and distinct signalling pathways. The 
emerging theme is that RACK1 functions as a signalling switch, recruiting 
proteins to form distinct molecular complexes. In focal adhesions, RACK1 is 
required for the regulation of FAK activity and for integrating a wide array of 
cellular signalling events including the integration of growth factor and 
adhesion signalling pathways. FAK is required for cell adhesion and migration 
and has a well-established role in neurite outgrowth and in the developing 
nervous system. However, the mechanism by which FAK activity is regulated in 
neurons remains unknown. Using neuronal cell lines, we determined that 
differentiation of these cells promotes an interaction between the scaffolding 
protein RACK1 and FAK. Disruption of the RACK1/FAK interaction leads to 
decreased neurite outgrowth suggesting a role for the interaction in neurite 
extension. We hypothesised that RACK1 recruits proteins to FAK, to regulate FAK 
activity in neuronal cells. To address this, we immunoprecipitated RACK1 from 
rat hippocampus and searched for interacting proteins by mass spectrometry. We 
identified AGAP2 as a novel RACK1-interacting protein. Having confirmed the 
RACK1-AGAP2 interaction biochemically, we show RACK1-AGAP2 to localise together 
in the growth cone of differentiated cells, and confirm that these proteins are 
in complex with FAK. This complex is disrupted when RACK1 expression is 
suppressed using siRNA or when mutants of RACK1 that do not interact with FAK 
are expressed in cells. Similarly, suppression of AGAP2 using siRNA leads to 
increased phosphorylation of FAK and increased cell adhesion resulting in 
decreased neurite outgrowth. Our results suggest that RACK1 scaffolds AGAP2 to 
FAK to regulate FAK activity and cell adhesion during the differentiation 
process.

© 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cellsig.2013.08.036
PMID: 24056044 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


100. J Control Release. 2013 Dec 28;172(3):737-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.jconrel.2013.09.011. Epub 2013 Sep 20.

Paclitaxel-loaded polymeric microparticles: quantitative relationships between 
in vitro drug release rate and in vivo pharmacodynamics.

Tsai M(1), Lu Z, Wientjes MG, Au JL.

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy, The Ohio State University, Columbus, 43210, USA.

Comment in
    J Control Release. 2013 Dec 28;172(3):1162.

Intraperitoneal therapy (IP) has demonstrated survival advantages in patients 
with peritoneal cancers, but has not become a widely practiced standard-of-care 
in part due to local toxicity and sub-optimal drug delivery. Paclitaxel-loaded, 
polymeric microparticles were developed to overcome these limitations. The 
present study evaluated the effects of microparticle properties on paclitaxel 
release (extent and rate) and in vivo pharmacodynamics. In vitro paclitaxel 
release from microparticles with varying physical characteristics (i.e., 
particle size, copolymer viscosity and composition) was evaluated. A method was 
developed to simulate the dosing rate and cumulative dose released in the 
peritoneal cavity based on the in vitro release data. The relationship between 
the simulated drug delivery and treatment outcomes of seven microparticle 
compositions was studied in mice bearing IP human pancreatic tumors, and 
compared to that of the intravenous Cremophor micellar paclitaxel solution used 
off-label in previous IP studies. Paclitaxel release from polymeric 
microparticles in vitro was multi-phasic; release was greater and more rapid 
from microparticles with lower polymer viscosities and smaller diameters (e.g., 
viscosity of 0.17 vs. 0.67 dl/g and diameter of 5-6 vs. 50-60 μm). The simulated 
drug release in the peritoneal cavity linearly correlated with treatment 
efficacy in mice (r(2)>0.8, p<0.001). The smaller microparticles, which 
distribute more evenly in the peritoneal cavity compared to the large 
microparticles, showed greater dose efficiency. For single treatment, the 
microparticles demonstrated up to 2-times longer survival extension and 4-times 
higher dose efficiency, relative to the paclitaxel/Cremophor micellar solution. 
Upon repeated dosing, the paclitaxel/Cremophor micellar solution showed 
cumulative toxicity whereas the microparticle that yielded 2-times longer 
survival did not display cumulative toxicity. The efficacy of IP therapy 
depended on both temporal and spatial factors that were determined by the 
characteristics of the drug delivery system. A combination of fast- and 
slow-releasing microparticles with 5-6 μm diameter provided favorable spatial 
distribution and optimal drug release for IP therapy.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jconrel.2013.09.011
PMCID: PMC3881265
PMID: 24056144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


101. Indian J Med Res. 2013;138(2):252-6.

Frequency & specificity of RBC alloantibodies in patients due for surgery in 
Iran.

Reyhaneh K(1), Ahmad G, Gharib K, Vida V, Raheleh K, Mehdi TN.

Author information:
(1)Medical Laboratory Hematology & Blood Banking Department, School of Allied 
Medical Sciences, Shahid Beheshti University of Medical Sciences/Pediatric 
Congenital Hematologic Disorders Research Center/Blood Transfusion Research 
Center, High Institute for Research & Education in Transfusion Medicine, Tehran, 
Iran.

BACKGROUND & OBJECTIVES: Red blood cell alloimmunization is common in patients 
receiving multiple blood transfusions. Since the probability of repeat 
transfusion increases with longer life expectancy, it is important to study to 
which extent alloimmunized patients with a history of transfusion are prone to 
form alloantibodies after transfusion events. The aim of this study was to 
retrospectively analyze the alloimmunization against RBCs among transfused 
patients who were to undergo elective surgery in Tehran, Iran.
METHODS: A total of 3092 occasionally transfused patients, who were to undergo 
elective surgery, in four hospitals in Tehran were included in the study. For 
patients with alloantibodies, the data about sex, date of birth, history of 
transfusion, surgery, abortion and alloantibody specificity were collected.
RESULTS: Clinically significant alloantibodies were found in 30 patients. The 
presence of positive antibodies in the patients for whom cross-match had been 
done was one per cent. Most of them had surgery history or transfusion record 
during the preceding year. The three most frequent alloantibodies were anti-K 
(23.53%), anti- E (20.59%) and anti-c (17.56%).
INTERPRETATION & CONCLUSIONS: The most common clinically significant 
alloantibodies identified in men and women were anti-K and anti-E, respectively. 
The most common causes of alloimmunization for men were surgery history and 
transfusion record and for women pregnancy.

PMCID: PMC3788212
