PMID: 24056603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


102. Demogr Res. 2010 Mar 26;22:505-538. doi: 10.4054/DemRes.2010.22.17.

The compression of deaths above the mode.

Thatcher AR(1), Cheung SL, Horiuchi S, Robine JM.

Author information:
(1)Former Director of the Office of Population Censuses and Surveys, London. 
Roger Thatcher passed away in February 2010, after this paper was accepted but 
before it could be published.

Kannisto (2001) has shown that as the frequency distribution of ages at death 
has shifted to the right, the age distribution of deaths above the modal age has 
become more compressed. In order to further investigate this old-age mortality 
compression, we adopt the simple logistic model with two parameters, which is 
known to fit data on old-age mortality well (Thatcher 1999). Based on the model, 
we show that three key measures of old-age mortality (the modal age of adult 
deaths, the life expectancy at the modal age, and the standard deviation of ages 
at death above the mode) can be estimated fairly accurately from death rates at 
only two suitably chosen high ages (70 and 90 in this study). The distribution 
of deaths above the modal age becomes compressed when the logits of death rates 
fall more at the lower age than at the higher age. Our analysis of mortality 
time series in six countries, using the logistic model, endorsed Kannisto's 
conclusion. Some possible reasons for the compression are discussed.

DOI: 10.4054/DemRes.2010.22.17
PMCID: PMC3779152
PMID: 24058281


103. Acta Oncol. 2014 Jan;53(1):80-7. doi: 10.3109/0284186X.2013.794955. Epub
2013  Sep 23.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of scalp cooling to reduce chemotherapy-induced 
alopecia.

van den Hurk CJ(1), van den Akker-van Marle ME, Breed WP, van de Poll-Franse LV, 
Nortier JW, Coebergh JW.

Author information:
(1)Research Department, Eindhoven Cancer Registry/Comprehensive Cancer Centre 
South , Eindhoven , The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Alopecia is a frequently occurring side effect of chemotherapy that 
often can be prevented by cooling the scalp during the infusion. This study 
compared effects and costs of scalp cooling with usual general oncological care, 
i.e. purchasing a wig or head cover.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Scalp-cooled patients (n = 160) were compared with 
non-scalp-cooled patients (n = 86) at 15 Dutch hospitals. Patients were enrolled 
prior to anthracycline and/or taxane-based chemotherapy for several types of 
cancer between 2007 and 2008. Cost-effectiveness of scalp cooling compared with 
that of usual care was determined by the ratio of costs to quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs). Costs for scalp cooling (machines and nursing time), hair 
dressers, wigs and head covers were estimated from a societal perspective. QALYs 
were measured using the Short Form-36.
RESULTS: Scalp cooling reduced the use of a wig or head cover by 40%, but wigs 
were still purchased unnecessarily by 38% of scalp-cooled patients. Average 
societal costs decreased therefore only by €269 per patient due to scalp cooling 
(p = 0.02). Given the eligibility for scalp cooling at the time, the 
insignificant difference in QALYs resulted from a balance of the benefits for 
those patients with successful scalp cooling and those without success. For the 
Dutch, given the generally accepted threshold of willingness to pay for a QALY 
(between €20 000 and €40 000), scalp cooling was cost-effective, therefore 
justifying the choice of scalp cooling or purchasing a wig or head cover.
CONCLUSION: Given the right indication, cost-effectiveness might be improved 
further by postponing wig and head cover purchases, by improving scalp cooling 
efficacy, as well as using the scalp cooling capacity more intensively.

DOI: 10.3109/0284186X.2013.794955
PMID: 24059270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


104. BMC Health Serv Res. 2013 Jul 17;13:274. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-274.

Cost-effectiveness of a nurse-based intervention (AIMS) to improve adherence 
among HIV-infected patients: design of a multi-centre randomised controlled 
trial.

Oberjé E(1), de Bruin M, Evers S, Viechtbauer W, Nobel HE, Schaalma H, 
McCambridge J, Gras L, Tousset E, Prins J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Communication, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam School of 
Communication Research ASCoR, Kloveniersburgwal 48, 1012 CX, Amsterdam, 
Netherlands. e.j.m.oberje@uva.nl

BACKGROUND: Non-adherence to HIV-treatment can have a negative impact on 
patients treatment success rates, quality of life, infectiousness, and life 
expectancy. Few adherence interventions have shown positive effects on adherence 
and/or virologic outcomes. The theory- and evidence-based Adherence Improving 
self-Management Strategy (AIMS) is an intervention that has been demonstrated to 
improve adherence and viral suppression rates in a randomised controlled trial. 
However, evidence of its cost-effectiveness is lacking. Following a recent 
review suggesting that cost-effectiveness evaluations of adherence interventions 
for chronic diseases are rare, and that the methodology of such evaluations is 
poorly described in the literature, this manuscript presents the study protocol 
for a multi-centre trial evaluating the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
AIMS among a heterogeneous sample of patients.
METHODS/DESIGN: The study uses a multi-centre randomised controlled trial design 
to compare the AIMS intervention to usual care from a societal perspective. 
Embedded in this RCT is a trial-based and model-based economic evaluation. A 
planned number of 230 HIV-infected patients are randomised to receive either 
AIMS or usual care. The relevant outcomes include changes in adherence, plasma 
viral load, quality of life, and societal costs. The time horizon for the 
trial-based economic evaluation is 12-15 months. Costs and effects are 
extrapolated to a lifetime horizon for the model-based economic evaluation.
DISCUSSION: The present multicentre RCT is designed to provide sound 
methodological evidence regarding the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a 
nurse-based counselling intervention (AIMS) to support treatment adherence among 
a large and heterogeneous sample of HIV-infected patients in the Netherlands. 
The objective of the current paper is to describe the trial protocol in 
sufficient detail to allow full evaluation of the quality of the study design. 
It is anticipated that, if proven cost-effective, AIMS can contribute to 
improved evidence-based counselling guidelines for HIV-nurses and other health 
care professionals.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study has been registered on clinicaltrials.gov 
(Identifier: NCT01429142).

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-274
PMCID: PMC3717053
PMID: 24059292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


105. Neuroradiol J. 2011 Aug 31;24(4):643-7. doi: 10.1177/197140091102400422.
Epub  2011 Sep 2.

Advanced ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament in a mildly 
symptomatic patient. A case report and literature review.

Conte G(1), Viglianesi A, D'Amore A, Chiaramonte R, Pecoraro C, Nastasi L, 
Giuffrida S, Pero G, Chiaramonte I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of Catania; Catania, Italy - 
a.viglianesi@hotmail.it.

We describe the imaging findings of a man who developed neurologic symptoms due 
to ossification of the posterior longitudinal ligament with narrowing of the 
spinal canal and compression of the spinal cord. CT study allowed a detailed 
evaluation of the stenosis and the extension of the ossification while MRI gave 
an excellent visualization of the spinal lesions caused by spinal cord 
compression by the mass. The neurological status of patients with ossification 
of the posterior longitudinal ligament depends on many factors such as the 
degree of spinal canal stenosis, life style, accidental mechanical stress and 
trauma.

DOI: 10.1177/197140091102400422
PMID: 24059724


106. Neuroradiol J. 2011 Oct 31;24(5):693-8. doi: 10.1177/197140091102400505.
Epub  2011 Oct 24.

Endovascular management of pediatric aneurysms.

Saleh E(1), Dawson RC 3rd.

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Department of Neurosurgery, Louisiana State University 
Health Sciences Center; New Orleans, LA, USA - rcdawson3@cox.net.

Although the general principles of endovascular aneurysm treatment in adults 
hold true in children, these young patients pose unique challenges: small 
anatomy, longer life expectancy, associated conditions and morphological 
characteristics of the aneurysms. Few publications in the literature address the 
role of endovascular treatment for pediatric aneurysms; including series by Agid 
et al. (2005) (1) revisiting the Toronto series, Lasjaunias et al. (2005) (2) 
updating the Bicêtre series and Sanai et al (2006) (8) presenting the San 
Francisco series. In their conclusions, the authors of the former two 
publications favored endovascular treatment over microsurgery. On the other 
hand, the authors of the latter publication favored microsurgery over 
endovascular treatment. The authors reviewed Louisiana State University 
experience regarding endovascular treatment of pediatric aneurysms focusing on 
outcomes. A retrospective chart review was performed of children under 18, who 
underwent endovascular treatment for intracranial aneurysms between 2000 and 
2009 in our institution. Twelve patients harboring seventeen aneurysms were 
identified. The patients ranged in age from seventeen months to seventeen years. 
Complete aneurysm obliteration following endovascular treatment was around 95%. 
Our results showed unique features for pediatric aneurysms when compared to 
adult aneurysms. No intra operative mortality was recorded. One aneurysm 
recurred (5% recurrence rate among total number of aneurysms). In this case, six 
months after treatment, a control angiogram showed that the coils were displaced 
toward the dome of the aneurysm. This recurrence occurred before the 
introduction of the hydro coils. One patient died during the post intervention 
period (8% occurrence rate among total number of patients). Outcomes were better 
in anterior circulation aneurysms than in posterior circulation lesions. We had 
no mortality, morbidity or disability in the anterior circulation aneurysm 
group. In the posterior circulation group, there was one death representing 14% 
of the nine patients with aneurysms in this group. One recurrence occurred in 
the posterior circulation group representing 11% of the nine aneurysms in this 
group. Follow-up of all patients ranged from two to eight years. Endovascular 
treatment of pediatric intracranial aneurysm is safe and efficacious. 
Endovascular treatment in many instances provides less morbidity and mortality 
for treatment of pediatric aneurysms in inaccessible or eloquent locations than 
microsurgical clipping. The result of endovascular treatment depends on the 
location of the aneurysms and the underlying pathology. We advocate a 
multidisciplinary approach when choosing the therapeutic modality for treatment 
of pediatric aneurysms.

DOI: 10.1177/197140091102400505
PMID: 24059763


107. Biochem J. 2013 Dec 1;456(2):275-82. doi: 10.1042/BJ20130749.

Mycobacterium smegmatis Ku binds DNA without free ends.

Kushwaha AK(1), Grove A.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Biological Sciences, Louisiana State University, Baton Rouge, 
LA 70803, U.S.A.

Ku is central to the non-homologous end-joining pathway of double-strand-break 
repair in all three major domains of life, with eukaryotic homologues being 
associated with more diversified roles compared with prokaryotic and archaeal 
homologues. Ku has a conserved central 'ring-shaped' core domain. While 
prokaryotic homologues lack the N- and C-terminal domains that impart functional 
diversity to eukaryotic Ku, analyses of Ku from certain prokaryotes such as 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa and Mycobacterium smegmatis have revealed the presence of 
distinct C-terminal extensions that modulate DNA-binding properties. We report 
in the present paper that the lysine-rich C-terminal extension of M. smegmatis 
Ku contacts the core protein domain as evidenced by an increase in DNA-binding 
affinity and a decrease in thermal stability and intrinsic tryptophan 
fluorescence upon its deletion. Ku deleted for this C-terminus requires free DNA 
ends for binding, but translocates to internal DNA sites. In contrast, 
full-length Ku can directly bind DNA without free ends, suggesting that this 
property is conferred by its C-terminus. Such binding to internal DNA sites may 
facilitate recruitment to sites of DNA damage. The results of the present study 
also suggest that extensions beyond the shared core domain may have 
independently evolved to expand Ku function.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20130749
PMID: 24059867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


108. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2013 Nov;125(21-22):669-73. doi: 
10.1007/s00508-013-0421-4. Epub 2013 Sep 24.

Transperineal template-guided biopsy for diagnosis of prostate cancer in 
patients with at least two prior negative biopsies.

Klatte T(1), Swietek N, Schatzl G, Waldert M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Medical University of Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, 
1090, Vienna, Austria.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the prostate cancer (PCa) detection rate, PCa location, 
PCa significance and complications of a standardized 24-core template-guided 
transperineal biopsy (TPB) approach in patients with at least two negative 
transrectal biopsies.
METHODS: We prospectively recruited 50 men who had at least two negative 
transrectal ultrasound-guided extended biopsies in the past 24 months, a 
prostate-specific antigen (PSA) < 20 ng/mL, a prostate volume < 100 mL, and life 
expectancy of at least 90 % at 10 years. All patients underwent a standardized 
24-core template-guided TPB biopsy. The PCa detection rate, PCa location, PCa 
significance, and complications were recorded.
RESULTS: Median age was 57.5 years and the median PSA level was 7.3 ng/ml. PCa 
was detected in 24 patients (48 %). The anterior zone was involved in 16 (32 %) 
PCa. Six PCa (25 %) were insignificant. Biopsy related complications occurred in 
2 patients (4 %).
CONCLUSIONS: A 24-core TPB is a safe procedure with a high PCa detection rate. 
Few of the detected PCa are clinically insignificant. Men with at least two 
negative transrectal biopsies may be counseled to undergo TPB.

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-013-0421-4
PMID: 24061696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


109. Int J Epidemiol. 2013 Aug;42(4):925-9. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyt134.

Two Koreas, war and health.

Khang YH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
88 Olympic-ro 43-gil Songpa-Gu, Seoul, 138-736 Korea. Email: 
youngk@amc.seoul.kr.

Comment in
    Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Aug;43(4):1340-1.
    Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Aug;43(4):1341-2.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyt134
PMID: 24062281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


110. Oxid Med Cell Longev. 2013;2013:161986. doi: 10.1155/2013/161986. Epub 2013
Aug  26.

Ammonium-dependent shortening of CLS in yeast cells starved for essential amino 
acids is determined by the specific amino acid deprived, through different 
signaling pathways.

Santos J(1), Leão C, Sousa MJ.

Author information:
(1)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Health 
Sciences, University of Minho, Braga, Portugal.

Ammonium (NH4(+)) leads to chronological life span (CLS) shortening in 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae BY4742 cells, particularly evident in cells starved for 
auxotrophy-complementing amino acids (leucine, lysine, and histidine) 
simultaneously. Here, we report that the effect of NH4(+) on aging yeast depends 
on the specific amino acid they are deprived of. Compared with no amino acid 
starvation, starvation for leucine alone or in combination with histidine 
resulted in the most pronounced NH4(+)-induced CLS shortening, whereas 
starvation for lysine, alone or in combination with histidine resulted in the 
least sensitivity to NH4(+). We also show that NH4(+)-induced CLS shortening is 
mainly mediated by Tor1p in cells starved for leucine or histidine but by Ras2p 
in cells starved for lysine, and in nonstarved cells. Sch9p protected cells from 
the effect of NH4(+) under all conditions tested (starved or nonstarved cells), 
which was associated with Sch9p-dependent Hog1p phosphorylation. Our data show 
that NH4(+) toxicity can be modulated through manipulation of the specific 
essential amino acid supplied to cells and of the conserved Ras2p, Tor1p, and 
Sch9p regulators, thus providing new clues to the development of environmental 
interventions for CLS extension and to the identification of new therapeutic 
targets for diseases associated with hyperammonemia.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/161986
PMCID: PMC3767051
PMID: 24062876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2013 Jul;27(7):800-4.

[Preparation of spider silk protein bilayer small diameter vascular scaffold and 
blood compatibility analysis in vitro].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao L(1), Xu Y, Qiu H, Li M, Chen Y.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Fujian Normal University, Fuzhou Fujian, 350108, 
P.R. China.

OBJECTIVE: To prepare a spider silk protein bilayer small diameter vascular 
scaffold using electrospinning, and to observe the blood compatibility in vitro.
METHODS: The Arg-Gly-Asp-recombinant spider silk protein (pNSR16), 
polycaprolactone (PCL), gelatin (Gt), and heparin (Hep) were blended. Spider 
silk protein bilayer small diameter vascular scaffold (experimental group) was 
prepared by electrospinning, with pNSR16 : PCL : Hep (5 : 85 : 10, W/W) hybrid 
electrospun solution as inner spinning solution and pNSR16 : PCL : Gt (5 : 85 : 
10, W/W) hybrid electrospun solution as outer spinning solution, but pNSR16 : 
PCL (5 : 85, W/W) hybrid electrospun solution was used as inner spinning 
solution in control group. The scaffold structure of experimental group was 
observed under scanning electron microscope (SEM); and the hemolysis rate, 
recalcification clotting time, dynamic clotting time, platelet adhesion, and 
platelet activation in vitro were compared between 2 groups.
RESULTS: SEM results showed that bilayer fibers of scaffold were quite different 
in experimental group; the diameter distribution of inner layer fibers was 
relatively uniform with small pores, however diameter difference of the outer 
layer fiber was relatively big with big pores. The contact angle, hemolysis 
rate, recalcification clotting time, and P-selectin expression of scaffold were 
(35 +/- 3) degrees, 1.2% +/- 0.1%, (340 +/- 11) s, and 0.412 +/- 0.027 
respectively in experimental group, and were (70 +/- 4) degrees, 1.9% +/- 0.1%, 
(260 +/- 16) s, and 0.678 +/- 0.031 respectively in control group; significant 
difference were found in indexes between 2 groups (P < 0.05). With the extension 
of time, the curve of coagulation time in experimental group sloped downward 
slowly and had a long time; the blood clotting index values before 30 minutes 
were significantly higher than those in control group (P < 0.05). Platelet 
adhesion test showed that the scaffold surface almost had no platelet adhesion 
in experimental group.
CONCLUSION: The spider silk protein bilayer small diameter vascular scaffold 
could be prepared through electrospinning, and it has good blood compatibility 
in vitro.

PMID: 24063166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. BMC Geriatr. 2013 Sep 24;13:98. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-13-98.

Brain aging and dementia during the transition from late adulthood to old age: 
design and methodology of the "Invece.Ab" population-based study.

Guaita A(1), Colombo M, Vaccaro R, Fossi S, Vitali SF, Forloni G, Polito L, 
Davin A, Ferretti VV, Villani S.

Author information:
(1)"Golgi Cenci" Foundation, Corso San Martino 8, 20081 Abbiategrasso, Italy. 
a.guaita@golgicenci.it.

BACKGROUND: Developed countries are experiencing an unprecedented increase in 
life expectancy that is accompanied by a tremendous rise in the number of people 
with dementia. The purpose of this paper is to report on the study design and 
methodology of an Italian population-based study on brain aging and dementia in 
the elderly. This multi-domain study is structured in two phases. Our goal is to 
gather sufficient data to estimate the prevalence (phase I: cross-sectional 
study), the incidence and the progression of dementia and its subtypes as well 
as cognitive impairment (phase II: follow-up study) and to identify 
socio-demographic, clinical, and lifestyle factors associated with dementia and 
the quality of brain aging in people aged 70-74 years, a crucial point between 
late adulthood and old age.
METHODS/DESIGN: We chose to contact all 1773 people born between 1935-39 
residing in Abbiategrasso, Milan, Italy. Those who agreed to participate in the 
"Invece.Ab" study were enrolled in a cross-sectional assessment and will be 
contacted two and four years after the initial data collection to participate in 
the longitudinal survey. Both the cross-sectional and longitudinal assessments 
include a medical evaluation, a neuropsychological test battery, several 
anthropometric measurements, a social and lifestyle interview, blood analyses, 
and the storage of a blood sample for the evaluation of putative biological 
markers.
DISCUSSION: Now at the end of the recruitment phase, the evaluable population 
has amounted to 1644 people. Among these, 1321 (80.35%) of the participants have 
completed phase I. This high return rate was likely due to the style of 
recruitment and personalization of the contacts.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-13-98
PMCID: PMC3849204
PMID: 24063518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


113. Br J Cancer. 2013 Oct 15;109(8):2121-30. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2013.568. Epub
2013  Sep 24.

The impact of supportive nursing care on the needs of men with prostate cancer: 
a study across seven European countries.

Cockle-Hearne J(1), Charnay-Sonnek F, Denis L, Fairbanks HE, Kelly D, Kav S, 
Leonard K, van Muilekom E, Fernandez-Ortega P, Jensen BT, Faithfull S.

Author information:
(1)School of Health & Social Care, University of Surrey, Stag Hill, Guildford, 
Surrey GU2 7TE, UK.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer is for many men a chronic disease with a long life 
expectancy after treatment. The impact of prostate cancer therapy on men has 
been well defined, however, explanation of the consequences of cancer treatment 
has not been modelled against the wider variables of long-term health-care 
provision. The aim of this study was to explore the parameters of unmet 
supportive care needs in men with prostate cancer in relation to the experience 
of nursing care.
METHODS: A survey was conducted among a volunteer sample of 1001 men with 
prostate cancer living in seven European countries.
RESULTS: At the time of the survey, 81% of the men had some unmet supportive 
care needs including psychological, sexual and health system and information 
needs. Logistic regression indicated that lack of post-treatment nursing care 
significantly predicted unmet need. Critically, men's contact with nurses and/or 
receipt of advice and support from nurses, for several different aspects of 
nursing care significantly had an impact on men's outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Unmet need is related not only to disease and treatment factors but 
is also associated with the supportive care men received. Imperative to 
improving men's treatment outcomes is to also consider the access to nursing and 
the components of supportive care provided, especially after therapy.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2013.568
PMCID: PMC3798964
PMID: 24064968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Blood. 2013 Nov 21;122(22):3568-74. doi: 10.1182/blood-2013-07-498261. Epub
2013  Sep 24.

Molecular approaches for improved clotting factors for hemophilia.

Kaufman RJ(1), Powell JS.

Author information:
(1)Degenerative Disease Research, Center for Neuroscience, Aging, and Stem Cell 
Research, Sanford Burnham Medical Research Institute, La Jolla, CA; and.

Hemophilia is caused by a functional deficiency of one of the coagulation 
proteins. Therapy for no other group of genetic diseases has seen the progress 
that has been made for hemophilia over the past 40 years, from a life expectancy 
in 1970 of ∼20 years for a boy born with severe hemophilia to essentially a 
normal life expectancy in 2013 with current prophylaxis therapy. However, these 
therapies are expensive and require IV infusions 3 to 4 times each week. These 
are exciting times for hemophilia because several new technologies that promise 
extended half-lives for factor products, with potential for improvements in 
quality of life for persons with hemophilia, are in late-phase clinical 
development.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2013-07-498261
PMCID: PMC3837506
PMID: 24065241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Vasc Endovascular Surg. 2014 Jan;48(1):45-50. doi: 10.1177/1538574413505921.
 Epub 2013 Sep 23.

Diabetes mellitus and aortic aneurysm rupture: a favorable association?

Theivacumar NS(1), Stephenson MA, Mistry H, Valenti D.

Author information:
(1)1Department of Vascular Surgery, King's Health Partners, King's College 
Hospital, Denmark Hill, London, SE5 9RS, United Kingdom.

INTRODUCTION: Recent reports suggest that diabetic patients are relatively 
unlikely to have abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAAs). This retrospective study 
assesses the relationship between diabetes mellitus (DM) and aortic aneurysm 
rupture.
METHODS: Patients with a diagnosis of any aortic aneurysm during a 10-year 
period were identified from our records. Patients with diagnoses of aortic 
aneurysm (thoracic, thoracoabdominal, and abdominal, treated and untreated) were 
included. Patients with nonatheromatous aneurysms (transection, dissection, 
mycotic, or isolated iliac) were excluded.
RESULTS: In all, 1830 patients with nonruptured aneurysms and 232 ruptured 
aneurysms were included giving a total of 2062 patients with aortic aneurysms 
(abdominal, thoracic, and thoracoabdominal). Of these 1830, 225 (12.3%) patients 
with nonruptured aneurysm were diabetic; however, only 13 (5.6%) of the 232 
patients with ruptured aortic aneurysm were diabetic (odds ratio [OR] = 0.42; 
confidence interval [CI]: 0.23-0.75, P = .004). Considering only those with 
AAAs, 184 (12.4%) of the 1482 nonruptured AAA were diabetic; however, only 12 
(6.4%) of the 188 patients with ruptured AAA were diabetic (OR = 0.48 [CI: 
0.26-0.88], P = .02). In this study group, the odds of dying due to aneurysm 
rupture in the diabetic group are significantly lower compared to the 
nondiabetic groups (OR = 0.31 [CI: 0.13-0.69], P = .004), despite the finding 
that diabetic patients had almost the same life expectancy as nondiabetic 
patients (DM, 73 years [67-80] vs non-DM, 75 years [68-82] P = .23).
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetic patients with aortic aneurysms are significantly less 
likely to present with rupture or to die from aneurysm rupture when compared to 
nondiabetic patients with aortic aneurysms. We have identified association only, 
not causality. However, it is plausible that DM, or the treatment of DM, may 
have a protective effect on aortic aneurysm rupture.

DOI: 10.1177/1538574413505921
PMID: 24065625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. BMJ Open. 2013 Sep 23;3(9):e003447. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003447.

Trends in age at first hospital admission in relation to trends in life 
expectancy in Swedish men and women above the age of 60.

Karampampa K(1), Drefahl S, Andersson T, Ahlbom A, Modig K.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Institute of Environmental Medicine, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: To examine whether the first admission to hospital after the age of 
60 has been postponed to higher ages for men and women in Sweden, in line with 
the shift in mortality.
DESIGN: This nationwide observational study was based on data obtained from 
national registries in Sweden. The study cohort was created by linking the 
Register of the Total Population in Sweden with the National Patient Register 
and the Swedish Cause of Death Register.
SETTING: The entire Swedish population born between 1895 and 1950 was followed 
up between 1987 and 2010 with respect to hospital admissions and deaths using 
the national registry data.
PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURES: The time from age 60 until the first admission to the 
hospital, regardless of the diagnosis, and the time from age 60 until death 
(remaining life expectancy, LE) were estimated for the years 1995-2010. The 
difference between these two measures was also estimated for the same period.
RESULTS: Between 1995 and 2010 mortality as well as first hospital admission 
shifted to higher ages. The average time from age 60, 70, 80 and 90 until the 
first hospital admission increased at all ages. The remaining LE at age 60, 70 
and 80 increased for men and women. For the 90-year-olds it was stable.
CONCLUSIONS: In Sweden, the first hospital admission after the age of 60 has 
been pushed to higher ages in line with mortality for the ages 60 and above. 
First admission to the hospital could indicate the onset of first severe 
morbidity; however, the reorganisation of healthcare may also have influenced 
the observed trends.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003447
PMCID: PMC3787478
PMID: 24065698


117. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Oct 8;110(41):16498-502. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1304074110. Epub 2013 Sep 24.

Adult and larval traits as determinants of geographic range size among tropical 
reef fishes.

Luiz OJ(1), Allen AP, Robertson DR, Floeter SR, Kulbicki M, Vigliola L, Becheler 
R, Madin JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, Macquarie University, Sydney, NSW 2109, 
Australia.

Most marine organisms disperse via ocean currents as larvae, so it is often 
assumed that larval-stage duration is the primary determinant of geographic 
range size. However, empirical tests of this relationship have yielded mixed 
results, and alternative hypotheses have rarely been considered. Here we assess 
the relative influence of adult and larval-traits on geographic range size using 
a global dataset encompassing 590 species of tropical reef fishes in 47 
families, the largest compilation of such data to date for any marine group. We 
analyze this database using linear mixed-effect models to control for phylogeny 
and geographical limits on range size. Our analysis indicates that three adult 
traits likely to affect the capacity of new colonizers to survive and establish 
reproductive populations (body size, schooling behavior, and nocturnal activity) 
are equal or better predictors of geographic range size than pelagic larval 
duration. We conclude that adult life-history traits that affect the 
postdispersal persistence of new populations are primary determinants of 
successful range extension and, consequently, of geographic range size among 
tropical reef fishes.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1304074110
PMCID: PMC3799316
PMID: 24065830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


118. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 16;8(9):e73500. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073500. 
eCollection 2013.

A Bayesian two part model applied to analyze risk factors of adult mortality 
with application to data from Namibia.

Kazembe LN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics and Population Studies, University of Namibia, 
Windhoek, Namibia.

Despite remarkable gains in life expectancy and declining mortality in the 21st 
century, in many places mostly in developing countries, adult mortality has 
increased in part due to HIV/AIDS or continued abject poverty levels. Moreover 
many factors including behavioural, socio-economic and demographic variables 
work simultaneously to impact on risk of mortality. Understanding risk factors 
of adult mortality is crucial towards designing appropriate public health 
interventions. In this paper we proposed a structured additive two-part random 
effects regression model for adult mortality data. Our proposal assumed two 
processes: (i) whether death occurred in the household (prevalence part), and 
(ii) number of reported deaths, if death did occur (severity part). The proposed 
model specification therefore consisted of two generalized linear mixed models 
(GLMM) with correlated random effects that permitted structured and unstructured 
spatial components at regional level. Specifically, the first part assumed a 
GLMM with a logistic link and the second part explored a count model following 
either a Poisson or negative binomial distribution. The model was used to 
analyse adult mortality data of 25,793 individuals from the 2006/2007 Namibian 
DHS data. Inference is based on the Bayesian framework with appropriate priors 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073500
PMCID: PMC3774685
PMID: 24066052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


119. Methodist Debakey Cardiovasc J. 2013 Jul-Sep;9(3):137-41. doi: 
10.14797/mdcj-9-3-137.

Safety of MRIs in patients with pacemakers and defibrillators.

Kodali S(1), Baher A, Shah D.

Author information:
(1)Houston Methodist Hospital, Houston, Texas.

With a burgeoning population, increases in life expectancy, and expanding 
indications, the number of patients with cardiac devices such as pacemakers and 
implantable cardioverter defibrillators continues to increase each year. A 
majority of these patients will develop an indication for magnetic resonance 
imaging (MRI) in their lifetime. MRIs have established themselves as one of the 
most powerful imaging tools for a variety of conditions. However, given the 
historic safety concerns, many physicians are reluctant to use MRIs in this 
patient population. In this paper, we discuss the potential adverse effects of 
MRIs in patients with cardiac devices, review key studies that have addressed 
strategies to limit adverse effects, and provide our cardiovascular MRI 
laboratory's protocol for imaging patients with implanted cardiac devices.

DOI: 10.14797/mdcj-9-3-137
PMCID: PMC3782320
PMID: 24066196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosure: The authors 
have completed and submitted the Methodist DeBakey Cardiovascular Journal 
Conflict of Interest Statement and none were reported.


120. Curr Top Med Chem. 2013;13(20):2551-61. doi: 10.2174/15680266113136660182.

Challenges and opportunities for cancer vaccines in the current NSCLC clinical 
scenario.

Rodriguez PC(1), Sanchez B.

Author information:
(1)Center of Molecular Immunology, Clinical Research Direction, 216 and 15, 
Playa, P.O.Box: 16040, Havana 11600, Cuba. camilo@cim.sld.cu.

This review is aimed to focus on NSCLC as an emerging and promising model for 
active immunotherapy and the challenges for its inclusion in the current 
clinical scenario. Cancer vaccines for NSCLC have been focused as a therapeutic 
option based on the identification of a tumor hallmark and the active 
immunization with the related molecules that triggers cellular and/or humoral 
responses that consequently destroy or delay the rate of malignant progression. 
This therapeutic intervention in an established disease state has been aimed to 
impact into prolonging patient´s survival with ethically accepted quality of 
life. Understanding of relationship between structure and function in cancer 
vaccines is essential to interpret their opportunities to impact into prolonging 
survival and increasing quality of life in cancer patients. It is widely 
accepted that the failure of the cancer vaccines in the NSCLC scenario is 
related with its introduction in the advanced disease stages and poor 
performance status of the patients due to the combination of the tumor induced 
immunosuppression with the immune senescence. Despite first, second and emerging 
third line of onco-specific treatments the life expectancy for NSCLC patients 
diagnosed at advanced stages is surrounding the 12 months of median survival and 
in facts the today real circumstances are extremely demanding for the success 
inclusion of cancer vaccines as therapeutic choice in the clinical scenario. The 
kinetics of the active immunizations encompasses a sequential cascade of 
clinical endpoints: starting by the activation of the immune system, followed by 
the antitumor response and finalizing with the consequential impact on patients' 
overall survival. Today this cascade of clinical endpoints is the backbone for 
active immunization assessment and moreover the concept of cancer vaccines, 
applied in the NSCLC setting, is just evolving as a complex therapeutic 
strategy, in which the opportunities for cancer vaccines start from the 
selection of the target cancer hallmark, followed by the vaccine formulation and 
its platforms for immune potentiating, also cover the successful insertion in 
the standard of care, the chronic administration beyond progression disease, the 
personalization based on predictors of response and the potential combination 
with other targeted therapies.

DOI: 10.2174/15680266113136660182
PMCID: PMC4104452
PMID: 24066886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Clin Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Feb;95(2):199-207. doi: 10.1038/clpt.2013.190.
Epub  2013 Sep 23.

Cost-effectiveness of pharmacogenetics-guided warfarin therapy vs. alternative 
anticoagulation in atrial fibrillation.

Pink J(1), Pirmohamed M(2), Lane S(3), Hughes DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation, Institute of Medical 
and Social Care Research, Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, UK.
(2)Department of Molecular and Clinical Pharmacology, The Wolfson Centre for 
Personalised Medicine, Institute of Translational Medicine, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Centre for Medical Statistics and Health 
Evaluation, University of Liverpool, Liverpool, UK.

Pharmacogenetics-guided warfarin dosing is an alternative to standard clinical 
algorithms and new oral anticoagulants for patients with nonvalvular atrial 
fibrillation. However, clinical evidence for pharmacogenetics-guided warfarin 
dosing is limited to intermediary outcomes, and consequently, there is a lack of 
information on the cost-effectiveness of anticoagulation treatment options. A 
clinical trial simulation of S-warfarin was used to predict times within 
therapeutic range for different dosing algorithms. Relative risks of clinical 
events, obtained from a meta-analysis of trials linking times within therapeutic 
range with outcomes, served as inputs to an economic analysis. Neither 
dabigatran nor rivaroxaban were cost-effective options. Along the 
cost-effectiveness frontier, in relation to clinically dosed warfarin, 
pharmacogenetics-guided warfarin and apixaban had incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios of £13,226 and £20,671 per quality-adjusted life year gained, 
respectively. On the basis of our simulations, apixaban appears to be the most 
cost-effective treatment.

DOI: 10.1038/clpt.2013.190
PMID: 24067746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):736-40. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100976.
Epub  2013 Sep 25.

Genetic modification of characteristic masculine traits: enhancement or 
deformity?

McMahan J.

Comment in
    J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):741-2.

Comment on
    J Med Ethics. 2013 Dec;39(12):722-8.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2012-100976
PMID: 24068076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2013 Dec;43(12):1238-42. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyt143. Epub
2013  Sep 25.

Pathological and oncological outcomes of elderly men with clinically localized 
prostate cancer.

Mitsuzuka K(1), Koie T, Narita S, Kaiho Y, Yoneyama T, Tsuchiya N, Kakoi N, 
Kawamura S, Tochigi T, Ohyama C, Habuchi T, Arai Y.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Urology, Tohoku University School of Medicine, 1-1 
Seiryo-machi, Aoba-ku, Sendai 980-8574, Japan mitsuzuka@uro.med.tohoku.ac.jp.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to characterize pathological and oncological 
outcomes of elderly men with clinically localized prostate cancer treated with 
radical prostatectomy.
METHODS: Data from 1268 patients undergoing radical prostatectomy between 2000 
and 2009 were retrospectively reviewed. Patients were classified according to 
whether they were of age <70 or ≥70 years at radical prostatectomy. Patient 
characteristics, pathological and oncological outcomes were compared among the 
groups.
RESULTS: Of the total population, 31.4% (398 of 1268) of patients were ≥70 years 
of age. The median age in patients <70 and ≥70 years of age was 64 (45-69) and 
72 (70-83) years. The proportion of low-risk disease was significantly lower 
among those ≥70 years of age than in those <70 years, while the proportion of 
high-risk disease was significantly higher among those ≥70 years of age than in 
those <70 years (P < 0.001). The proportions of pathological high-risk disease 
(≥T3b, GS ≥8, positive surgical margin or lymph node invasion) in patients <70 
and ≥70 years of age were 42.0 and 50.0%, respectively (P = 0.008). The 
proportions of organ-confined disease in patients <70 and ≥70 years of age were 
69.9 and 65.1%, respectively (P = 0.09). With a median follow-up of 50 months, 
5-year biochemical recurrence-free and cancer-specific survival rates were not 
significantly different among the groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Radical prostatectomy was more likely to be performed in those with 
higher-risk disease among patients ≥70 years of age. About half of the patients 
≥70 years of age had pathological, high-risk disease. Radical prostatectomy 
could be considered for patients with expected long-term life expectancy, even 
in the setting of advanced age.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyt143
PMID: 24068712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. PLoS Genet. 2013;9(9):e1003775. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1003775. Epub 2013
Sep  19.

Recent acquisition of Helicobacter pylori by Baka pygmies.

Nell S(1), Eibach D, Montano V, Maady A, Nkwescheu A, Siri J, Elamin WF, Falush 
D, Linz B, Achtman M, Moodley Y, Suerbaum S.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Microbiology and Hospital Epidemiology, Hannover Medical 
School, Hannover, Germany.

Both anatomically modern humans and the gastric pathogen Helicobacter pylori 
originated in Africa, and both species have been associated for at least 100,000 
years. Seven geographically distinct H. pylori populations exist, three of which 
are indigenous to Africa: hpAfrica1, hpAfrica2, and hpNEAfrica. The oldest and 
most divergent population, hpAfrica2, evolved within San hunter-gatherers, who 
represent one of the deepest branches of the human population tree. Anticipating 
the presence of ancient H. pylori lineages within all hunter-gatherer 
populations, we investigated the prevalence and population structure of H. 
pylori within Baka Pygmies in Cameroon. Gastric biopsies were obtained by 
esophagogastroduodenoscopy from 77 Baka from two geographically separated 
populations, and from 101 non-Baka individuals from neighboring agriculturalist 
populations, and subsequently cultured for H. pylori. Unexpectedly, Baka Pygmies 
showed a significantly lower H. pylori infection rate (20.8%) than non-Baka 
(80.2%). We generated multilocus haplotypes for each H. pylori isolate by DNA 
sequencing, but were not able to identify Baka-specific lineages, and most 
isolates in our sample were assigned to hpNEAfrica or hpAfrica1. The population 
hpNEAfrica, a marker for the expansion of the Nilo-Saharan language family, was 
divided into East African and Central West African subpopulations. Similarly, a 
new hpAfrica1 subpopulation, identified mainly among Cameroonians, supports 
eastern and western expansions of Bantu languages. An age-structured 
transmission model shows that the low H. pylori prevalence among Baka Pygmies is 
achievable within the timeframe of a few hundred years and suggests that 
demographic factors such as small population size and unusually low life 
expectancy can lead to the eradication of H. pylori from individual human 
populations. The Baka were thus either H. pylori-free or lost their ancient 
lineages during past demographic fluctuations. Using coalescent simulations and 
phylogenetic inference, we show that Baka almost certainly acquired their extant 
H. pylori through secondary contact with their agriculturalist neighbors.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1003775
PMCID: PMC3777998
PMID: 24068950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


125. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2013;2013:161976. doi:
10.1155/2013/161976.  Epub 2013 Aug 6.

Potential Osteoporosis Recovery by Deep Sea Water through Bone Regeneration in 
SAMP8 Mice.

Liu HY(1), Liu MC, Wang MF, Chen WH, Tsai CY, Wu KH, Lin CT, Shieh YH, Zeng R, 
Deng WP.

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Research Center, Taipei Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan ; 
Graduate Institute of Biomedical Materials and Tissue Engineering, Taipei 
Medical University, Taipei, Taiwan.

The aim of this study is to examine the therapeutic potential of deep sea water 
(DSW) on osteoporosis. Previously, we have established the ovariectomized 
senescence-accelerated mice (OVX-SAMP8) and demonstrated strong recovery of 
osteoporosis by stem cell and platelet-rich plasma (PRP). Deep sea water at 
hardness (HD) 1000 showed significant increase in proliferation of osteoblastic 
cell (MC3T3) by MTT assay. For in vivo animal study, bone mineral density (BMD) 
was strongly enhanced followed by the significantly increased trabecular numbers 
through micro-CT examination after a 4-month deep sea water treatment, and 
biochemistry analysis showed that serum alkaline phosphatase (ALP) activity was 
decreased. For stage-specific osteogenesis, bone marrow-derived stromal cells 
(BMSCs) were harvested and examined. Deep sea water-treated BMSCs showed 
stronger osteogenic differentiation such as BMP2, RUNX2, OPN, and OCN, and 
enhanced colony forming abilities, compared to the control group. Interestingly, 
most untreated OVX-SAMP8 mice died around 10 months; however, approximately 57% 
of DSW-treated groups lived up to 16.6 months, a life expectancy similar to the 
previously reported life expectancy for SAMR1 24 months. The results 
demonstrated the regenerative potentials of deep sea water on osteogenesis, 
showing that deep sea water could potentially be applied in osteoporosis therapy 
as a complementary and alternative medicine (CAM).

DOI: 10.1155/2013/161976
PMCID: PMC3773439
PMID: 24069046


126. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 17;8(9):e75466. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075466. 
eCollection 2013.

Predicting the long-term impact of antiretroviral therapy scale-up on population 
incidence of tuberculosis.

Dodd PJ(1), Knight GM, Lawn SD, Corbett EL, White RG.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Mathematical Modelling of Infectious Diseases, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom ; TB Centre, London School 
of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the impact of antiretroviral therapy (ART) on 
long-term population-level tuberculosis disease (TB) incidence in sub-Saharan 
Africa.
METHODS: We used a mathematical model to consider the effect of different 
assumptions about life expectancy and TB risk during long-term ART under 
alternative scenarios for trends in population HIV incidence and ART coverage.
RESULTS: All the scenarios we explored predicted that the widespread 
introduction of ART would initially reduce population-level TB incidence. 
However, many modelled scenarios projected a rebound in population-level TB 
incidence after around 20 years. This rebound was predicted to exceed the TB 
incidence present before ART scale-up if decreases in HIV incidence during the 
same period were not sufficiently rapid or if the protective effect of ART on TB 
was not sustained. Nevertheless, most scenarios predicted a reduction in the 
cumulative TB incidence when accompanied by a relative decline in HIV incidence 
of more than 10% each year.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite short-term benefits of ART scale-up on population TB 
incidence in sub-Saharan Africa, longer-term projections raise the possibility 
of a rebound in TB incidence. This highlights the importance of sustaining good 
adherence and immunologic response to ART and, crucially, the need for effective 
HIV preventive interventions, including early widespread implementation of ART.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075466
PMCID: PMC3775764
PMID: 24069418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


127. J Insur Med. 2013;43(4):233-43.

Malignant neoplasm related mortality and morbidity of hypertensive outpatients 
in Japanese men and women.

Kato S(1), Takamoto N, Matsumoto K, Kudo M, Hanaoka K.

Author information:
(1)Sumitomo Life Insurance Co, Underwriting Standard Research, Planning & 
Underwriting Audit Sect, 1-4-35, Shiromi, Chuo-ku, Osaka 540-8512, Japan. 
sinzirou_katou@am.sumitomolife.co.jp

OBJECTIVES: To investigate the cause of reduced malignant neoplasm-related 
mortality in hypertensive outpatients.
BACKGROUND: In previous studies, hypertensive outpatients have had modest 
improvement in overall mortality rate as compared with standard risk groups. 
While excessive mortality rates for cardiovascular disease and stroke were 
evident in hypertensive outpatients, the mortality rate of malignant neoplasm 
was greatly reduced.
METHODS: Using database systems of Sumitomo Life Insurance Co, Japan, standard 
life tables were generated, and ratios or rates for mortality and morbidity of 
hypertensive outpatients were extrapolated and analyzed.
RESULTS: The mortality ratio of all cancers was significantly low, 85% (95% CI: 
77%-93%), and the morbidity ratio was significantly increased, 121% (95% CI: 
109%-133%). The mortality ratio of each of categorized malignant neoplasm was 
below 100% except for colorectal cancer (111%, 95% CI: 83%-138%). The mortality 
ratios of stomach cancer (56%, 95% CI: 41%-72%) and liver cancer (52%, 95% CI: 
32%-80%) were significantly decreased. The morbidity ratios of colorectal 
cancer, breast cancer, esophageal cancer, and others were over 100%, and was 
statistically significant in colorectal cancer (140%, 95% CI: 112%-167%) and 
others (139%, 95% CI: 113%-165%). The differences between the mortality ratio 
and the morbidity ratio of stomach cancer and others were statistically 
significant. The relative lethality of all but pancreatic cancer and leukemia 
were less than 1.0, and there was a positive correlation between the general 
prognosis of each cancer and the relative lethality.
CONCLUSIONS: The decreased malignant neoplasm-related mortality ratio in 
hypertensive outpatients was indicative of an improved prognosis and likely 
benefited from close medical surveillance.

PMID: 24069784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. BMC Nephrol. 2013 Sep 27;14:204. doi: 10.1186/1471-2369-14-204.

The impact of an exercise physiologist coordinated resistance exercise program 
on the physical function of people receiving hemodialysis: a stepped wedge 
randomised control study.

Bennett PN(1), Daly RM, Fraser SF, Haines T, Barnard R, Ockerby C, Kent B.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Nursing Research - Deakin University and Monash Health 
Partnership, Clayton, Victoria 3168, Australia. p.bennett@deakin.edu.au.

