months follow-up, as were corresponding utilities for different continence 
states. Deterministic and probabilistic estimates of cost-effectiveness (CE) for 
each procedure were calculated and compared, and sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: In the base-case deterministic analysis, the efficacy of RMS was 6.275 
versus 6.272 QALYs for TMS. QALYs represent a measure of disease burden 
accounting for both quantity and quality of life lived and are used to assess 
the monetary value of a medical intervention. The average cost for treatment 
with RMS however was higher at $9,579 versus $9,017 with TMS. TMS was therefore 
overall more cost-effective than RMS (CE = $1,438/QALY vs. $1,527/QALY). 
Sensitivity analysis demonstrated that physician and sling characteristics such 
as device cost, surgeon fee, efficacy of treatment, operative time, and duration 
of hospitalization could all affect the relative CE of the therapies.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study demonstrated that TMS was more cost-effective than RMS as 
a treatment for female SUI. The efficacy of the two treatments could be affected 
by physician and sling characteristic factors.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/nau.22483
PMID: 23946119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Circulation. 2013 Sep 17;128(12):1335-40. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.003059. Epub 2013 Aug 14.

Cost-effectiveness of percutaneous coronary intervention in patients with stable 
coronary artery disease and abnormal fractional flow reserve.

Fearon WF(1), Shilane D, Pijls NH, Boothroyd DB, Tonino PA, Barbato E, Jüni P, 
De Bruyne B, Hlatky MA; Fractional Flow Reserve Versus Angiography for 
Multivessel Evaluation 2 (FAME 2) Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Medicine (W.F.F., M.A.H.) and the Department of 
Health Research and Policy (D.S., D.B.B., M.A.H.), Stanford University School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA; Catharina Hospital, Eindhoven, The Netherlands 
(N.H.J.P., P.A.L.T.); Cardiovascular Center Aalst, Aalst, Belgium (E.B., 
B.D.B.); and Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine (ISPM), University of 
Bern, Switzerland and CTU Bern, Department of Clinical Research, University of 
Bern, Switzerland (P.J.).

Comment in
    Circulation. 2014 Jun 24;129(25):e683.
    Circulation. 2014 Jun 24;129(25):e684.

BACKGROUND: The Fractional Flow Reserve Versus Angiography for Multivessel 
Evaluation (FAME) 2 trial demonstrated a significant reduction in subsequent 
coronary revascularization among patients with stable angina and at least 1 
coronary lesion with a fractional flow reserve ≤0.80 who were randomized to 
percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) compared with best medical therapy. The 
economic and quality-of-life implications of PCI in the setting of an abnormal 
fractional flow reserve are unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We calculated the cost of the index hospitalization based 
on initial resource use and follow-up costs based on Medicare reimbursements. We 
assessed patient utility using the EQ-5D health survey with US weights at 
baseline and 1 month and projected quality-adjusted life-years assuming a linear 
decline over 3 years in the 1-month utility improvements. We calculated the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio based on cumulative costs over 12 months. 
Initial costs were significantly higher for PCI in the setting of an abnormal 
fractional flow reserve than with medical therapy ($9927 versus $3900, P<0.001), 
but the $6027 difference narrowed over 1-year follow-up to $2883 (P<0.001), 
mostly because of the cost of subsequent revascularization procedures. Patient 
utility was improved more at 1 month with PCI than with medical therapy (0.054 
versus 0.001 units, P<0.001). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of PCI 
was $36 000 per quality-adjusted life-year, which was robust in bootstrap 
replications and in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: PCI of coronary lesions with reduced fractional flow reserve 
improves outcomes and appears economically attractive compared with best medical 
therapy among patients with stable angina.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.003059
PMID: 23946263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Neurosci. 2013 Aug 14;33(33):13410-24. doi:
10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1534-13.2013.

Rescue of peripheral and CNS axon defects in mice lacking NMNAT2.

Gilley J(1), Adalbert R, Yu G, Coleman MP.

Author information:
(1)Signalling Programme, The Babraham Institute, Babraham Research Campus, 
Cambridge, CB22 3AT, United Kingdom.

Comment in
    Bioarchitecture. 2013 Sep-Dec;3(5):133-40.

NMNAT2 is an NAD(+)-synthesizing enzyme with an essential axon maintenance role 
in primary culture neurons. We have generated an Nmnat2 gene trap mouse to 
examine the role of NMNAT2 in vivo. Homozygotes die perinatally with a severe 
peripheral nerve/axon defect and truncated axons in the optic nerve and other 
CNS regions. The cause appears to be limited axon extension, rather than 
dying-back degeneration of existing axons, which was previously proposed for the 
NMNAT2-deficient Blad mutant mouse. Neurite outgrowth in both PNS and CNS 
neuronal cultures consistently stalls at 1-2 mm, similar to the length of 
truncated axons in the embryos. Crucially, this suggests an essential role for 
NMNAT2 during axon growth. In addition, we show that the Wallerian degeneration 
slow protein (Wld(S)), a more stable, aberrant NMNAT that can substitute the 
axon maintenance function of NMNAT2 in primary cultures, can also correct 
developmental defects associated with NMNAT2 deficiency. This is dose-dependent, 
with extension of life span to at least 3 months by homozygous levels of Wld(S) 
the most obvious manifestation. Finally, we propose that endogenous mechanisms 
also compensate for otherwise limiting levels of NMNAT2. This could explain our 
finding that conditional silencing of a single Nmnat2 allele triggers 
substantial degeneration of established neurites, whereas similar, or greater, 
reduction of NMNAT2 in constitutively depleted neurons is compatible with normal 
axon growth and survival. A requirement for NMNAT2 for both axon growth and 
maintenance suggests that reduced levels could impair axon regeneration as well 
as axon survival in aging and disease.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.1534-13.2013
PMCID: PMC6705152
PMID: 23946398 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Electrolyte Blood Press. 2013 Jun;11(1):9-16. doi: 10.5049/EBP.2013.11.1.9.
Epub  2013 Jun 30.

Potassium balances in maintenance hemodialysis.

Choi HY(1), Ha SK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Gangnam Severance Hospital, Yonsei 
University College of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Potassium is abundant in the ICF compartment in the body and its excretion 
primarily depends on renal (about 90%), and to a lesser extent (about 10%) on 
colonic excretion. Total body potassium approximated to 50mmol/kg body weight 
and 2% of total body potassium is in the ECF compartment and 98% of it in the 
intracellular compartment.Dyskalemia is a frequent electrolyte imbalance 
observed among the maintenance hemodialysis patients. In case of hyperkalemia, 
it is frequently "a silent and a potential life threatening electrolyte 
imbalance" among patients with ESRD under maintenance hemodialysis. The 
prevalence of hyperkalemia in maintenance HD patients was reported to be about 
8.7-10%. Mortality related to the hyperkalemia has been shown to be about 
3.1/1,000 patient-years and about 24% of patients with HD required emergency 
hemodialysis due to severe hyperkalemia. In contrast to the hyperkalemia, much 
less attention has been paid to the hypokalemia in hemodialysis patients because 
of the low prevalence under maintenance hemodialysis patients. Severe 
hypokalemia in the hemodialysis patients usually was resulted from low potassium 
intake (malnutrition), chronic diarrhea, mineralocorticoid use, and imprudent 
use of K-exchange resins. Recently, the numbers of the new patients with 
advanced chronic kidney disease undergoing maintenance hemodialysis are 
tremendously increasing worldwide. However, the life expectancy of these 
patients is still much lower than that of the general population. The causes of 
excess mortality in these patients seem to various, but dyskalemia is a common 
cause among the patients with ESRD undergoing hemodialysis.

DOI: 10.5049/EBP.2013.11.1.9
PMCID: PMC3741441
PMID: 23946760

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have nothing to disclose.


808. J Prev Med Public Health. 2013 Jul;46(4):155-64. doi: 
10.3961/jpmph.2013.46.4.155. Epub 2013 Jul 31.

Burden of noncommunicable diseases and national strategies to control them in 
Korea.

Khang YH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea. youngk@amc.seoul.kr

Erratum in
    J Prev Med Public Health. 2013 Sep;46(5):292.

Noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) are the most important causes of premature 
mortality and disability-adjusted life years in Korea. NCDs are also the main 
contributor to socioeconomic inequalities in mortality and life expectancy. 
Reduction of NCDs and NCD inequalities would result in significant improvement 
in healthy life expectancy and health equity in Korea. Major NCD risk factors 
such as dietary risks (including salt intake), alcohol consumption, cigarette 
smoking, and high blood pressure were found to be the leading modifiable risk 
factors of disability-adjusted life years in Korea, based on the 2010 Global 
Burden of Disease Study. Several Korean studies have shown that these risk 
factors play an important role in creating socioeconomic inequalities in NCD 
mortality and total mortality. Current international discussions on NCD policies 
in the United Nations and the World Health Organization would provide better 
opportunities for developing aggressive population-wide policy measures in 
Korea. Considering the paucity of population-wide policies to control major NCD 
risk factors in Korea, rigorous population approaches such as taxation and 
regulation of unhealthy commodities as well as public education and mass 
campaigns should be further developed in Korea.

DOI: 10.3961/jpmph.2013.46.4.155
PMCID: PMC3740220
PMID: 23946873 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The author has no conflicts of interest with the 
material presented in this paper.


809. Psychol Med. 2014 May;44(7):1381-90. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713002067. Epub
2013  Aug 15.

Modelling the cost-effectiveness of preventing major depression in general 
practice patients.

Hunter RM(1), Nazareth I(1), Morris S(2), King M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Population Sciences, University College London 
Medical School, UK.
(2)Department of Applied Health Research, University College London Medical 
School, UK.
(3)Department of Mental Health Sciences, University College London Medical 
School, UK.

BACKGROUND: The prevention of depression is a key public health policy priority. 
PredictD is the first risk algorithm for the prediction of the onset of major 
depression. Our aim in this study was to model the cost-effectiveness of 
PredictD in depression prevention in general practice (GP).
METHOD: A decision analytical model was developed to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of two approaches, each of which was compared to treatment as 
usual (TAU) over 12 months: (1) the PredictD risk algorithm plus a low-intensity 
depression prevention programme; and (2) a universal prevention programme in 
which there was no initial identification of those at risk. The model simulates 
the incidence of depression and disease progression over 12 months and 
calculates the net monetary benefit (NMB) from the National Health Service (NHS) 
perspective.
RESULTS: Providing patients with PredictD and a depression prevention programme 
prevented 15 (17%) cases of depression in a cohort of 1000 patients over 12 
months and had the highest probability of being the optimal choice at a 
willingness to pay (WTP) of £20,000 for a quality-adjusted life year (QALY). 
Universal prevention was strongly dominated by PredictD plus a depression 
prevention programme in that universal prevention resulted in less QALYs than 
PredictD plus prevention for a greater cost.
CONCLUSIONS: Using PredictD to identify primary-care patients at high risk of 
depression and providing them with a low-intensity prevention programme is 
potentially cost-effective at a WTP of £20,000 per QALY.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713002067
PMCID: PMC3967840
PMID: 23947797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Value Health. 2013 Jul-Aug;16(5):699-700. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.03.001.
Epub  2013 May 15.

How should we value future health? Was NICE right to change?

Raftery J(1).

Author information:
(1)Wessex Institute, University of Southampton Southampton, UK.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.03.001
PMID: 23947961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Value Health. 2013 Jul-Aug;16(5):720-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.04.013.

Value of research and value of development in early assessments of new medical 
technologies.

Retèl VP(1), Grutters JP, van Harten WH, Joore MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychosocial Research and Epidemiology, Netherlands Cancer 
Institute-Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital (NKI-AVL), Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: In early stages of development of new medical technologies, there 
are conceptually separate but related societal decisions to be made concerning 
adoption, further development (i.e., technical improvement), and research (i.e., 
clinical trials) of new technologies. This article presents a framework to 
simultaneously support these three decisions from a societal perspective. The 
framework is applied to the 70-gene signature, a gene-expression profile for 
breast cancer, deciding which patients should receive adjuvant systemic therapy 
after surgery. The "original" signature performed on fresh frozen tissue 
(70G-FFT) could be further developed to a paraffin-based signature (70G-PAR) to 
reduce test failures.
METHODS: A Markov decision model comparing the "current" guideline Adjuvant 
Online (AO), 70G-FFT, and 70G-PAR was used to simulate 20-year costs and 
outcomes in a hypothetical cohort in The Netherlands. The 70G-PAR strategy was 
based on projected data from a comparable technology. Incremental net monetary 
benefits were calculated to support the adoption decision. Expected net benefit 
of development for the population and expected net benefit of sampling were 
calculated to support the development and research decision.
RESULTS: The 70G-PAR had the highest net monetary benefit, followed by the 
70G-FFT. The population expected net benefit of development amounted to €91 
million over 20 years (assuming €250 development costs per patient receiving the 
test). The expected net benefit of sampling amounted to €61 million for the 
optimal trial (n = 4000).
CONCLUSIONS: We presented a framework to simultaneously support adoption, 
development, and research decisions in early stages of medical technology 
development. In this case, the results indicate that there is value in both 
further development of 70G-FFT into 70G-PAR and further research.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.04.013
PMID: 23947964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Value Health. 2013 Jul-Aug;16(5):729-39. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.03.1625.
Epub  2013 Jul 1.

Cost-effectiveness of the 21-gene assay for guiding adjuvant chemotherapy 
decisions in early breast cancer.

Paulden M(1), Franek J, Pham B, Bedard PL, Trudeau M, Krahn M.

Author information:
(1)Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment (THETA) Collaborative, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada. mike.paulden@theta.utoronto.ca

OBJECTIVES: Adjuvant chemotherapy decisions in early breast cancer are complex. 
The 21-gene assay can potentially aid such decisions, but costs US $4175 per 
patient. Adjuvant! Online is a freely available decision aid. We evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of using the 21-gene assay in conjunction with Adjuvant! 
Online, and of providing adjuvant chemotherapy conditional upon risk 
classification.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov decision model simulated risk classification, 
treatment, and the natural history of breast cancer in a hypothetical cohort of 
50-year-old women with lymph node-negative, estrogen receptor- and/or 
progesterone receptor-positive, human epidermal growth factor receptor 
2/neu-negative early breast cancer. Cost-effectiveness was considered from an 
Ontario public-payer perspective by deriving the lifetime incremental cost (2012 
Canadian dollars) per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for each strategy, and 
the probability each strategy is cost-effective, assuming a willingness-to-pay 
of $50,000 per QALY.
RESULTS: The 21-gene assay has an incremental cost per QALY in patients at low, 
intermediate, or high Adjuvant Online! risk of $22,440 (probability 
cost-effective 78.46%), $2,526 (99.40%), or $1,111 (99.82%), respectively. In 
patients at low (high) 21-gene assay risk, adjuvant chemotherapy increases 
(reduces) costs and worsens (improves) health outcomes. For patients at 
intermediate 21-gene assay risk and low, intermediate, or high Adjuvant! Online 
risk, chemotherapy has an incremental cost per QALY of $44,088 (50.59%), $1,776 
(77.65%), or $1,778 (82.31%), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The 21-gene assay appears cost-effective, regardless of Adjuvant! 
Online risk. Adjuvant chemotherapy appears cost-effective for patients at 
intermediate or high 21-gene assay risk, although this finding is uncertain in 
patients at intermediate 21-gene assay and low Adjuvant! Online risk.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.03.1625
PMID: 23947965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Value Health. 2013 Jul-Aug;16(5):769-77. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.05.002.
Epub  2013 Jul 11.

Gastroprotective strategies in chronic NSAID users: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis comparing single-tablet formulations with individual components.

de Groot NL(1), Spiegel BM, van Haalen HG, de Wit NJ, Siersema PD, van Oijen MG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands. n.l.degroot-3@umcutrecht.nl

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of competing gastroprotective 
strategies, including single-tablet formulations, in the prevention of 
gastrointestinal (GI) complications in patients with chronic arthritis taking 
nonsteroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs).
METHODS: We performed a cost-utility analysis to compare eight gastroprotective 
strategies including NSAIDs, cyclooxygenase-2 inhibitors, proton pump inhibitors 
(PPIs), histamine-2 receptor antagonists, misoprostol, and single-tablet 
formulations. We derived estimates for outcomes and costs from medical 
literature. The primary outcome was incremental cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained. We performed sensitivity analyses to assess the effect of GI 
complications, compliance rates, and drug costs.
RESULTS: For average-risk patients, NSAID + PPI cotherapy was most 
cost-effective. The NSAID/PPI single-tablet formulation became cost-effective 
only when its price decreased from €0.78 to €0.56 per tablet, or when PPI 
compliance fell below 51% in the NSAID + PPI strategy. All other strategies were 
more costly and less effective. The model was highly sensitive to the GI 
complication risk, costs of PPI and NSAID/PPI single-tablet formulation, and 
compliance to PPI. In patients with a threefold higher risk of GI complications, 
both NSAID + PPI cotherapy and single-tablet formulation were cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: NSAID + PPI cotherapy is the most cost-effective strategy in all 
patients with chronic arthritis irrespective of their risk for GI complications. 
For patients with increased GI risk, the NSAID/PPI single-tablet formulation is 
also cost-effective.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.05.002
PMID: 23947970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Value Health. 2013 Jul-Aug;16(5):814-22. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.04.008.
Epub  2013 Jun 19.

Italian population-based values of EQ-5D health states.

Scalone L(1), Cortesi PA, Ciampichini R, Belisari A, D'Angiolella LS, Cesana G, 
Mantovani LG.

Author information:
(1)CHARTA Foundation, Milan, Italy. luciana.scalone@fondazionecharta.org

OBJECTIVE: To estimate a value set for the calculation of Italian-specific 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), based on preferences elicited on EuroQol 
five-dimensional (EQ-5D) questionnaire health states using the time trade-off 
technique.
METHODS: The revised standard Measurement and Valuation of Health protocol was 
followed. Twenty-five health states, divided into three groups and given to 450 
subjects, were selected to obtain 300 observations per state. Subjects aged 18 
to 75 years were recruited to be representative of the Italian general adult 
population for age, sex, and geographical distribution. To improve efficiency, 
face-to-face interviews were conducted by using the Computer Assisted Personal 
Interviewing approach. Several random effects regression models were tested to 
predict the full set of EQ-5D questionnaire health states. Model selection was 
based on logical consistency of the estimates, sign and magnitude of the 
regression coefficients, goodness of fit, and parsimony.
RESULTS: The model that satisfied the criteria of logical consistency and was 
more efficient includes 10 main effect dummy variables for the EQ-5D 
questionnaire domain levels and the D1 interaction term, which accounts for the 
number of dimensions at levels 2 or 3 beyond the first. This model has an R(2) 
of 0.389 and a mean absolute error of 0.03, which are comparable to or better 
than those of models used in other countries. The utility estimates after state 
11111 range from 0.92 (21111) to -0.38 (33333). Italian utility estimates are 
higher than those estimated in the United Kingdom and Spain and used so far to 
assess QALYs and conduct cost-utility evaluations in Italy.
CONCLUSIONS: A specific value set is now available to calculate QALYs for the 
conduction of health economic studies targeted at the Italian health care 
system.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.04.008
PMID: 23947975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Value Health. 2013 Jul-Aug;16(5):842-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.04.010.
Epub  2013 Jul 11.

Which is more valuable, longer survival or better quality of life? Israeli 
oncologists' and family physicians' attitudes toward the relative value of new 
cancer and congestive heart failure interventions.

Greenberg D(1), Hammerman A, Vinker S, Shani A, Yermiahu Y, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Systems Management, Faculty of Health Sciences, and the 
Guilford Glazer Faculty of Business and Management, Ben-Gurion University of the 
Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. dangr@bgu.ac.il

OBJECTIVES: We determined how Israeli oncologists and family physicians value 
life-prolongation versus quality-of-life (QOL)-enhancing outcomes attributable 
to cancer and congestive heart failure interventions.
METHODS: We presented physicians with two scenarios involving a hypothetical 
patient with metastatic cancer expected to survive 12 months with current 
treatment. In a life-prolongation scenario, we suggested that a new treatment 
increases survival at an incremental cost of $50,000 over the standard of care. 
Participants were asked what minimum improvement in median survival the new 
therapy would need to provide for them to recommend it over the standard of 
care. In the QOL-enhancing scenario, we asked the maximum willingness to pay for 
an intervention that leads to the same survival as the standard treatment, but 
increases patient's QOL from 50 to 75 (on a 0-100 scale). We replicated these 
scenarios by substituting a patient with congestive heart failure instead of 
metastatic cancer. We derived the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained threshold implied by each response.
RESULTS: In the life-prolongation scenario, the cost-effectiveness thresholds 
implied by oncologists were $150,000/QALY and $100,000/QALY for cancer and CHF, 
respectively. Cost-effectiveness thresholds implied by family physicians were 
$50,000/QALY regardless of the disease type. Willingness to pay for the 
QOL-enhancing scenarios was $60,000/QALY and did not differ by physicians' 
specialty or disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that family physicians value life-prolonging 
and QOL-enhancing interventions roughly equally, while oncologists value 
interventions that extend survival more highly than those that improve only QOL. 
These findings may have important implications for coverage and reimbursement 
decisions of new technologies.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.04.010
PMID: 23947979 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. DNA Repair (Amst). 2013 Oct;12(10):817-23. doi:
10.1016/j.dnarep.2013.07.010.  Epub 2013 Aug 13.

Increased dietary cholesterol promotes enhanced mutagenesis in DNA polymerase 
kappa-deficient mice.

Singer WD(1), Osimiri LC, Friedberg EC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center at 
Dallas, Dallas, TX 75390-9072, United States.

DNA polymerase kappa (Polκ) bypasses planar polycyclic N2-guanine adducts in an 
error-free manner. Cholesterol derivatives may interact with DNA to form 
similarly bulky lesions. In accordance, these studies examined whether increased 
mutagenesis of DNA accompanies hypercholesterolemia in Polk-/- mice. These mice 
also carried apoE gene knockouts to ensure increased levels of plasma 
cholesterol following exposure to a high cholesterol diet. The mice carried a 
reporter transgene (the λ-phage cII gene) for subsequent quantitative analysis 
of mutagenesis in various tissues. We observed significantly increased mutation 
frequencies in several organs of apoE-/-Polk-/- mice following a high 
cholesterol diet, compared to those remaining on a standard diet. Regardless of 
dietary regime, the mutation frequency in many organs was significantly higher 
in apoE-/-Polk-/- than in apoE-/-Polk+/+ mice. As expected for polycyclic 
guanine adducts, the mutations mainly consisted of G:C transversions. The life 
expectancy of apoE-/-Polk-/- mice maintained on a high cholesterol diet was 
reduced compared to apoE-/-Polk+/+ mice. Overall, this study demonstrates a role 
for Polκ in bypass of cholesterol-induced guanine lesions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dnarep.2013.07.010
PMID: 23948094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Biomaterials. 2013 Nov;34(34):8650-8659. doi: 
10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.07.090. Epub 2013 Aug 13.

Accelerated fatigue of dentin with exposure to lactic acid.

Do D(#)(1), Orrego S(#)(1), Majd H(1), Ryou H(1), Mutluay MM(1)(2), Xu HHK(3), 
Arola D(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Maryland Baltimore 
County, Baltimore, MD USA.
(2)Adhesive Dentistry Research Group, Institute of Dentistry, University of 
Turku, Turku, Finland.
(3)Department of Endodontics, Prosthodontics, and Operative Dentistry, Dental 
School, University of Maryland, Baltimore, MD 21201.
(#)Contributed equally

Composite restorations accumulate more biofilm than other dental materials. This 
increases the likelihood for the hard tissues supporting a restoration (i.e. 
dentin and enamel) to be exposed to acidic conditions beyond that resulting from 
dietary variations. In this investigation the fatigue strength and fatigue crack 
growth resistance of human coronal dentin were characterized within a lactic 
acid solution (with pH = 5) and compared to that of controls evaluated in 
neutral conditions (pH = 7). A comparison of the fatigue life distributions 
showed that the lactic acid exposure resulted in a significant reduction in the 
fatigue strength (p ≤ 0.001), and nearly 30% reduction in the apparent endurance 
limit (from 44 MPa to 32 MPa). The reduction in pH also caused a significant 
decrease (p ≤ 0.05) in the threshold stress intensity range required for the 
initiation of cyclic crack growth, and significant increase in the incremental 
rate of crack extension. Exposure of tooth structure to lactic acid may cause 
demineralization, but it also increases the likelihood of restored tooth 
failures via fatigue, and after short time periods.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biomaterials.2013.07.090
PMCID: PMC3772674
PMID: 23948166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. J Back Musculoskelet Rehabil. 2013;26(4):353-9. doi: 10.3233/BMR-130391.

The effect of non-weight bearing group-exercising on females with non-specific 
chronic low back pain: a randomized single blind controlled pilot study.

Masharawi Y(1), Nadaf N.

Author information:
(1)Spinal Research Lab., Department of Physiotherapy, The Stanley Steyer School 
of Health Professions, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel 
Aviv Jaffa, Israel.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of active 
non-weight-bearing (NWB) group exercising on women with non specific chronic low 
back pain (NSCLBP).
METHODS: Forty females with NSCLBP were assigned in a randomized control 
longitudinal single blinded pilot study. 20 of them were assigned to a NWB 
bi-weekly group exercise class and 20 females were included in the control 
group. The exercises involved the entire lumbo-pelvic spine aimed at improving 
lumbar mobility/flexibility and stability. Pain intensity (VAS), back specific 
disability (Rolland Morris questionnaire-RMQ), and lumbar flexion and extension 
ranges of motion measurements were taken prior to intervention (t(0)), 
immediately following 4 weeks of intervention (t(1)) and 8 weeks later (t(fu)). 
Reliability trials were conducted on 10 females. Non-parametric tests were used 
for statistical significance (p < 0.05).
RESULTS: The following significant changes in outcome measures were indicated at 
t(1) compared with t(0) and control group (p < 0.001): an increase in lumbar 
flexion and extension (mean difference = 9.26◦ (+54%) for flexion and 5.95◦ for 
extension(+98%)); reduction in VAS score (mean difference = 2.32 (+58%)) and RMQ 
score (mean difference = 4.9 (−34%)). All changes remained significant at t(fu). 
At t(0), lumbar flexion was correlated with extension (r = 0.547) and VAS (r = 
−0.581),whereas the RMQ score correlated with VAS score (r = 0.599) and 
negatively with lumbar extension (r = −0.665). At t(1),lumbar flexion correlated 
with extension (r = 0.664) and negatively with RMQ score (r = −0.54). At t(fu), 
changes in VAS score were negatively correlated with changes in lumbar flexion 
(r = −0.522), while changes in lumbar flexion correlated with extension (r = 
0.58).
CONCLUSIONS: A functional program of NWB group exercising improves functional, 
painful status, lumbar flexion and extension ranges of motion in women suffering 
from NSCLBP.

DOI: 10.3233/BMR-130391
PMID: 23948819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2013;36(3-4):229-41. doi: 10.1159/000351672.
Epub  2013 Aug 15.

Long-term safety and efficacy of donepezil in patients with dementia with Lewy 
bodies: results from a 52-week, open-label, multicenter extension study.

Ikeda M(1), Mori E, Kosaka K, Iseki E, Hashimoto M, Matsukawa N, Matsuo K, 
Nakagawa M; Donepezil-DLB Study Investigators.

Collaborators: Katayama S, Higashi Y, Yamada T, Maruki Y, Orimo S, Yoshiiwa A, 
Hanyu H, Yokochi M, Kimura T, Mizoguchi K, Nakanishi A, Tsukamoto T, Taniguchi 
N, Okamoto K, Kitamura T, Nakano Y, Kato T, Shimada K, Hiji M, Yoshiyama Y, 
Kitamura Y, Takahashi S, Akishita M, Washimi Y, Yamamoto Y, Kobayashi M, Udaka 
F, Osaki Y, Hino H, Kanda T, Kishimoto T, Oguro H, Matsuoka T, Tsugu Y, Fujii N, 
Kawase Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Faculty of Life Sciences, Kumamoto University, 
Kumamoto, Japan.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: To investigate the safety and efficacy of long-term 
administration (52 weeks) of donepezil in patients with dementia with Lewy 
bodies (DLB).
METHODS: This was a 52-week, multicenter, open-label extension study. Up to 8 
weeks after the completion of the preceding randomized, placebo-controlled trial 
(RCT), patients started treatment with 3 mg of donepezil daily for 2 weeks, 
followed by 5 mg daily for the remaining 50 weeks. Cognitive function, 
behavioral and psychiatric symptoms, cognitive fluctuations, and caregiver 
burden were assessed using the Mini-Mental State Examination, Neuropsychiatric 
Inventory, Cognitive Fluctuation Inventory, and the Zarit Caregiver Burden 
Interview, respectively. Safety parameters were monitored throughout.
RESULTS: In total, 108 patients were enrolled in the study. Cognitive function 
and dementia-related behavioral symptoms, including cognitive fluctuations, were 
improved after the start of donepezil treatment, and improvement was maintained 
for 52 weeks. Reduction in caregiver burden observed in the preceding RCT 
returned to the baseline level at 52 weeks. There was no significant imbalance 
in the incidence of adverse events (AEs) by onset time, and delayed AE onset 
induced by the long-term administration of donepezil was unlikely to appear.
CONCLUSION: The long-term administration of donepezil at 5 mg/day was well 
tolerated in patients with DLB and is expected to exhibit lasting effects, 
improving impaired cognitive function and psychiatric symptoms up to 52 weeks.

© 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000351672
PMID: 23949147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Br J Cancer. 2013 Sep 3;109(5):1172-80. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2013.464. Epub 2013
Aug  15.

The value of high adherence to tamoxifen in women with breast cancer: a 
community-based cohort study.

McCowan C(1), Wang S, Thompson AM, Makubate B, Petrie DJ.

Author information:
(1)Robertson Centre for Biostatistics, Institute of Health and Wellbeing, 
College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, Boyd 
Orr Building, Level 11, Scotland G12 8QQ, UK. Colin.McCowan@glasgow.ac.uk

BACKGROUND: Low adherence to adjuvant tamoxifen is associated with worse health 
outcomes but little is known about the cost-effectiveness of high adherence.
METHODS: We conducted an economic evaluation using data for all women with 
incident breast cancer between 1993 and 2000 who were subsequently prescribed 
tamoxifen in the Tayside region of Scotland. Patient-level, lifetime Markov 
models evaluated the impact of high vs low adherence to tamoxifen using linked 
prescribing, cancer registry, clinical cancer audit, hospital discharge and 
death records. Direct medical costs were estimated for each patient and 
quality-of-life weights were assigned. Recurrence information was collected by 
case note review and adherence calculated from prescribing records with low 
adherence classed below 80%.
RESULTS: A total of 354 (28%) patients had a recorded recurrence and 504 (39%) 
died. Four hundred and seventy-five (38%) patients had low adherence over the 
treatment period, which was associated with reduced time to recurrence of 52% 
(P<0.001). Time to other cause mortality was also reduced by 23% (P=0.055) but 
this was not statistically significant. For an average patient over her 
lifetime, low adherence was associated with a loss of 1.43 (95% CI: 1.15-1.71) 
discounted life years or 1.12 (95% CI: 0.91-1.34) discounted quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) and increased discounted medical costs of £5970 (95% CI: 
£4644-£7372). Assuming a willingness to pay threshold of £25,000 per QALY, the 
expected value of changing a patient from low to high adherence is £33,897 (95% 
CI: £28,322-£39,652).
CONCLUSION: Patients with low adherence have shorter time to recurrence, 
increased medical costs and worse quality of life. Interventions that encourage 
patients to continue taking their treatment on a daily basis for the recommended 
5-year period may be highly cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2013.464
PMCID: PMC3778308
PMID: 23949153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. World J Surg. 2013 Nov;37(11):2507-11. doi: 10.1007/s00268-013-2182-7.

A square peg in a round hole? Challenges with DALY-based "burden of disease" 
calculations in surgery and a call for alternative metrics.

Gosselin R(1), Ozgediz D, Poenaru D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: In recent years, surgical providers and advocates have engaged in 
a growing effort to establish metrics to estimate capacity for surgical services 
as well the burden of surgical diseases in resource-limited settings. The burden 
of disease (BoD) studies have established the disability-adjusted life year 
(DALY) as the primary metric to measure both disability and premature mortality. 
Nonetheless, DALY-based approaches present methodological challenges, some of 
which are unique to surgical conditions, not fully addressed through the 
multiple iterations of the BoD studies, including the most recent study.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This paper examines these challenges in detail, including 
issues around age-weighting and discounting, and estimates of disability-weights 
for specific conditions. Surgical burden measurements of specific conditions, or 
through the assessment of hospital wards as platforms for service delivery, 
still have unresolved methodological hurdles. The 2010 BoD study addresses some 
of these issues, but many questions still remain. Other methods estimating 
surgical prevalence, backlogs in treatment, and disability incurred by delays in 
care may provide more practical approaches to disease burden that can be useful 
tools for clinicians and health advocates.
CONCLUSIONS: These approaches warrant further exploration in LMICs and these 
debates require active engagement by surgical providers and advocates globally.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-013-2182-7
PMID: 23949200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 2013 Sep;28(3):283-97. doi:
10.1007/s10823-013-9206-5.

New estimates of racial/ethnic differences in life expectancy with chronic 
morbidity and functional loss: evidence from the National Health Interview 
Survey.

Cantu PA(1), Hayward MD, Hummer RA, Chiu CT.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Center, University of Texas at Austin, 305 E. 23rd 
Street, Stop G1800, 78712-1699, Austin, TX, USA, cantuphillip@utexas.edu.

This study documents the mortality, chronic morbidity and physical functioning 
experiences of U.S. Hispanics, non-Hispanic whites, and non-Hispanic blacks 50 
years of age and older in the United States. Hispanics are classified by 
nativity to better assess an important source of heterogeneity in population 
health within that population. Drawing on mortality and morbidity data from the 
National Health Interview Survey, demographic models of healthy life expectancy 
are used to derive estimates of life expectancy, life expectancy with and 
without chronic morbidity conditions, and life expectancy with and without 
functional limitations. The results not only highlight the mortality advantages 
of foreign-born Hispanics, but also document their health advantages in terms of 
morbidity and physical functioning beyond age 50. Nativity is a highly important 
factor differentiating the health and mortality experiences of Hispanics: 
U.S.-born Hispanics have a health profile more indicative of their minority 
status while foreign-born Hispanics have much more favorable mortality and 
health profiles. Differences in smoking across racial/ethnic/nativity groups is 
suggested as an important reason behind the apparent health advantages of 
foreign-born Hispanics relative to whites as well as relative to their U.S.-born 
counterparts.

DOI: 10.1007/s10823-013-9206-5
PMCID: PMC4029590
PMID: 23949255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


823. Urologe A. 2013 Sep;52(9):1248-50. doi: 10.1007/s00120-013-3300-8.

[Squamous cell carcinoma of the bladder in a patient with HIV and paraplegia].

[Article in German]

Bartel P(1), Göcking K, Janzen J, Pannek J.

Author information:
(1)Neuro-Urologie, Schweizer Paraplegiker-Zentrum, Guido A. Zäch Straße 1, 
CH-6207, Nottwil, Schweiz.

In patients with spinal cord injury (SCI) the rate of squamous cell carcinomas 
(SCC) among bladder tumors is increased compared to the general population. An 
increased life expectancy is achieved by modern HIV treatment so that more 
AIDS-unrelated malignomas, e.g. bladder tumors, occur in these patients. 
Therefore, the risk for SCC in this group of patients is increased in patients 
with SCI and HIV but the combination of these two diseases is rare. We report 
the first case of SCC in a patient with SCI and HIV. Initial symptoms of bladder 
tumors in patients with SCI are often unspecific; therefore, in cases with new 
onset hematuria, recurrent urinary tract infections and changes in bladder 
function, cystoscopy and computed tomography (CT) scanning should be considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-013-3300-8
PMID: 23949540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


824. Dev Disabil Res Rev. 2013;18(1):6-16. doi: 10.1002/ddrr.1123.

People with intellectual disability: what do we know about adulthood and life 
expectancy?

Coppus AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Dichterbij, Center for the Intellectually Disabled, Medical Center, Gennep, 
The Netherlands. t.coppus@elg.umcn.nl

Increases in the life expectancy of people with Intellectual Disability have 
followed similar trends to those found in the general population. With the 
exception of people with severe and multiple disabilities or Down syndrome, the 
life expectancy of this group now closely approximates with that of the general 
population. Middle and old age, which until 30 years ago were not recognized in 
this population, are now important parts of the life course of these 
individuals. Older adults with Intellectual Disabilities form a small, but 
significant and growing proportion of older people in the community. How these 
persons grow older and how symptoms and complications of the underlying cause of 
the Intellectual Disability will influence their life expectancy is of the 
utmost importance.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc., a Wiley company.

DOI: 10.1002/ddrr.1123
PMID: 23949824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Dev Disabil Res Rev. 2013;18(1):75-83. doi: 10.1002/ddrr.1130.

Aging in rare intellectual disability syndromes.

Dykens EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Vanderbilt Kennedy Center for Research on Human Development, One Magnolia 
Circle, Nashville, TN, 37203, USA. Elisabeth.dykens@vanderbilt.edu

This review highlights several methodological challenges involved in research on 
aging, health, and mortality in adults with rare intellectual disability 
syndromes. Few studies have been performed in this area, with research obstacles 
that include: the ascertainment of older adults with genetic versus clinical 
diagnoses; likelihood that adults will not receive adequate health care and 
referrals to genetic specialists; cohort differences related to generational and 
treatment effects; and increased mortality and selective survival biases. Even 
so, aging in Prader-Willi and Williams syndromes are reviewed as they reveal new 
insights into the phenotypic expression and treatment options for older adults 
with these disorders. The review ends with recommendations for future research 
that takes better advantage of genetic advances, changes in adult phenotypes, 
and ties across syndrome-specific research silos. Although aging in rare 
neurodevelopmental disorders is barely on the research landscape, the field 
stands to learn much from these older adults.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc., a Wiley company.

DOI: 10.1002/ddrr.1130
PMID: 23949831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Eur Respir J. 2014 Feb;43(2):554-65. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00079413. Epub
2013  Aug 15.

Costs of tuberculosis disease in the European Union: a systematic analysis and 
cost calculation.

Diel R(1), Vandeputte J, de Vries G, Stillo J, Wanlin M, Nienhaus A.

Author information:
(1)University Medical Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Airway Research Center North, 
Member of the German Center for Lung Research (DZL), Kiel.

Comment in
    Eur Respir J. 2014 Sep;44(3):822-4.
    Eur Respir J. 2014 Sep;44(3):824-5.

Without better vaccines it is unlikely that tuberculosis (TB) will ever be 
eliminated. An investment of ∼ €560 million is considered necessary to develop a 
new, effective vaccine in the European Union (EU). However, less is known about 
the costs of TB disease in the EU. We performed a systematic review of 
literature and institutional websites addressing the 27 EU members to summarise 
cost data. We searched MEDLINE, EMBASE and Cochrane bibliographies for relevant 
articles. Combining direct and indirect costs, we arrived at an average per-TB 
case costs in the original EU-15 states plus Cyprus, Malta and Slovenia of €10 
282 for drug-susceptible TB, €57 213 for multidrug resistant (MDR)-TB and €170 
744 for extensively drug resistant (XDR)-TB. In the remaining new EU states, 
costs amounted to €3427 for drug-susceptible TB and €24 166 for MDR-TB/XDR-TB. 
For the 70 340 susceptible TB cases, 1488 MDR-TB and 136 XDR-TB cases notified 
in 2011 costs of €536 890 315 accumulated in 2012. In the same year, the 103 104 
disability-adjusted life years caused by these cases, when stated in monetary 
terms, amounted to a total of €5 361 408 000. Thus, the resulting economic 
burden of TB in the EU clearly outweighs the cost of investing in more efficient 
vaccines against TB.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00079413
PMID: 23949960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Zentralbl Chir. 2013 Aug;138(4):434-41. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1350631. Epub
2013  Aug 15.

[Gender-specific influences on incidence, screening, treatment, and outcome of 
colorectal cancer].

[Article in German]

Grundmann RT(1), Meyer F.

Author information:
(1)reinhart@prof-grundmann.de

BACKGROUND: This overview comments on potential gender-specific differences in 
incidence, anatomic site, screening, treatment, and outcome in patients with 
colorectal cancer (CRC).
METHOD: For the literature review, the Medline database (PubMed) was searched 
under the key words "colorectal carcinoma AND gender" and "gender differences 
AND colorectal cancer". Publications of the last 9 years (2005-2013) were 
firstly retrieved.
RESULTS: CRC is more commonly observed in men than in women, with the higher 
tumour risk for men being limited to the distal colon and rectum. Risk factors 
for the development of CRC include overweight and obesity, this relationship is 
more pronounced for men than for women. The extent to which gender is a 
prognostic factor for patient survival is controversial. A better survival of 
women compared to men is found especially in the younger age groups, from which 
can be derived a protective effect of oestrogens on the development of CRC. As 
for the frequency with which men and women undergo a screening of CRC, sometimes 
higher screening rates have been reported for men than women, however, the 
socio-economic status of persons invited to participate has much more influence 
on screening attendance than gender. An analysis of surgical procedures 
indicates that it is more difficult to perform the low anterior resection of the 
rectum in men than women, with the result that men managed by less experienced 
surgeons are more likely to receive abdominoperineal excision. Furthermore, the 
risk of anastomotic leakage is higher in men than women.
CONCLUSION: The essential gender difference, however, is the longer life 
expectancy of women compared to men which has been not always clearly (risk 
adjusted) elaborated in the studies available so far. This difference alone can 
already explain at a high rate the poorer prognosis of right-sided colon cancers 
compared to left-sided cancers. Comparable levels of CRC risk are reached in 
women as compared to men at a higher age. This may influence the effectiveness 
of screening programmes and has not been sufficiently examined. Evidence 
suggests the adaptation of screening recommendations to this fact.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1350631
PMID: 23950079 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. PLoS One. 2013 Jun 18;8(6):e68180. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068180. 
eCollection 2013.

Comparative genome analysis and phylogenetic relationship of order Liliales 
insight from the complete plastid genome sequences of two Lilies (Lilium 
longiflorum and Alstroemeria aurea).

Kim JS(1), Kim JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Gacheon University, Seongnam, Gyeonggi-do, South 
Korea. kimjh2009@gachon.ac.kr

Monocots are one of the most diverse, successful and economically important 
clades of angiosperms. We attempt to analyse the complete plastid genome 
sequences of two lilies and their lengths were 152,793bp in Lilium longiflorum 
(Liliaceae) and 155,510bp in Alstroemeria aurea (Alstroemeriaceae). Phylogenetic 
analyses were performed for 28 taxa including major lineages of monocots using 
the sequences of 79 plastid genes for clarifying the phylogenetic relationship 
of the order Liliales. The sister relationship of Liliales and 
Asparagales-commelinids was improved with high resolution. Comparative analyses 
of inter-familial and inter-specific sequence variation were also carried out 
among three families of Liliaceae, Smilacaceae, and Alstroemeriaceae, and 
between two Lilium species of L. longflorum and L. superbum. Gene content and 
order were conserved in the order Liliales except infA loss in Smilax and 
Alstroemeria. IR boundaries were similar in IRa, however, IRb showed different 
extension patterns as JLB of Smilax and JSB in Alstroemeria. Ka/Ks ratio was 
high in matK among the pair-wise comparison of three families and the most 
variable genes were psaJ, ycf1, rpl32, rpl22, matK, and ccsA among the three 
families and rps15, rpoA, matK, and ndhF between Lilium.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068180
PMCID: PMC3688979
PMID: 23950788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


829. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 12;8(8):e70588. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0070588. 
eCollection 2013.

Cost-effectiveness of a community pharmacist intervention in patients with 
depression: a randomized controlled trial (PRODEFAR Study).

Rubio-Valera M(1), Bosmans J, Fernández A, Peñarrubia-María M, March M, Travé P, 
Bellón JA, Serrano-Blanco A.

Author information:
(1)Research and Development Unit, Fundació Sant Joan de Déu, Sant Boi de 
Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. mrubio@pssjd.org

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2016;11(1):e0147459.

BACKGROUND: Non-adherence to antidepressants generates higher costs for the 
