RESULTS: This analysis included 10,321 ICU patients. During ICU admission, 3,251 
patients (31.5%) died. Of 7,070 patients discharged alive, 2,527 (35.7%) were 
known to have died within the five-year follow-up period, a mortality rate 2.5 
times higher than that in the Thai general population (age and sex matched). The 
mean LE was estimated as 18.3 years compared with 25.2 years in the general 
population.
CONCLUSIONS: Post-ICU patients experienced much higher rates of mortality than 
members of the general population over the five-year follow-up period, 
particularly in the first year after discharge. Further work assessing Health 
Related Quality of Life (HRQOL) in both post-ICU patients and in the general 
population in developing countries is needed.

DOI: 10.1186/cc13036
PMCID: PMC4056652
PMID: 24090280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2014 Mar-Apr;10(2):289-90. doi: 
10.1016/j.soard.2013.06.023. Epub 2013 Jul 9.

Comment on: Safety and efficacy of laparoscopic adjustable gastric banding in 
patients aged seventy and older.

Himpens J(1).

Author information:
(1)Saint Pierre University Hospital Brussels, Belgium.

Comment on
    Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2014 Mar-Apr;10(2):284-9.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2013.06.023
PMID: 24091057 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2013 Nov;46(5):533-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejvs.2013.09.008. Epub 2013 Sep 12.

The shortfall in long-term survival of patients with repaired thoracic or 
abdominal aortic aneurysms: retrospective case-control analysis of hospital 
episode statistics.

Karthikesalingam A(1), Bahia SS, Patterson BO, Peach G, Vidal-Diez A, Ray KK, 
Sharma R, Hinchliffe RJ, Holt PJ, Thompson MM.

Author information:
(1)St George's Vascular Institute, St George's Hospital, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To report the contemporary life expectancy of patients undergoing 
abdominal (AAA) or thoracic aortic aneurysm (TAA) repair in England, relative to 
a healthy control population.
METHODS: A retrospective observational case-control study was carried out of 
Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) data, an administrative dataset covering the 
entire English National Health Service. Patients undergoing elective repair of 
an abdominal or thoracic aortic aneurysm in an English NHS hospital between 
April 2006 and March 2011 were included. Outcome measures were 5-year all-cause 
mortality (in- and out-of-hospital) and adverse cardiovascular events 
(myocardial infarction, stroke, emergency amputation or limb revascularisation).
RESULTS: 19,505 AAA and 730 TAA repairs were identified, with 75,260 and 2,721 
control participants, respectively, and 27.5 (1.0-60.0) months' median (range) 
follow-up. Five-year survival was 67.4% for AAA against 81.1% for control 
participants, and 65.3% for TAA against 89.1% for control participants (p < 
.001). Freedom from adverse cardiovascular events was 86.1% for AAA against 93% 
for control participants and 89.1% for TAA against 94.4% for control 
participants (p < .001).
CONCLUSION: Long-term survival remains poor after aneurysm repair and adverse 
cardiovascular events are common relative to the wider population. Further 
research is required to characterise and optimise cardiovascular risk prevention 
in patients with aortic aneurysms.

Copyright © 2013 European Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2013.09.008
PMID: 24091096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. Dig Liver Dis. 2013 Sep 30;45 Suppl 5:S355-62. doi:
10.1016/j.dld.2013.09.001.

Optimizing treatment in HIV/HCV coinfection.

Puoti M(1), Rossotti R, Travi G, Panzeri C, Morreale M, Chiari E, Cocca G, Orso 
M, Moioli MC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Diseases, AO Ospedale Niguarda Ca' Granda, Milano, 
Italy. Electronic address: massimopuoti@libero.it.

Sustained virological response (SVR) to anti-hepatitis C virus (HCV) treatment 
is an outcome that can improve life expectancy in persons with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection. Results of anti-HCV treatment are poor, 
and less than 50% of treated patients show SVR to peginterferon plus ribavirin 
combination therapy; in infections from HCV genotype 1 this proportion is less 
than 40%. Pilot studies have demonstrated that Boceprevir or Telaprevir in 
combination with peginterferon plus ribavirin are able to increase the SVR rate 
from 45% to 74% with Telaprevir, and from 26% to 61% with Boceprevir in persons 
never treated for hepatitis C. Interim data seem to indicate a high rate of HCV 
RNA undetectability on treatment also in patients without sustained response to 
peginterferon plus ribavirin. Both Telaprevir and Boceprevir have drug-drug 
interactions with antiretrovirals, and options for concurrent antiretroviral 
therapy are restricted. There are also several new anti-HCV drugs under study 
with the potential for more tolerable effective future regimens. The indication 
for treatment in a patient with HCV/HIV coinfection should take into account the 
priority of treatment, the probability of sustained response, the potential 
toxicities, the concurrent antiretroviral therapy options, the patient's 
motivation, and the sustainability of current and future therapies.

Copyright © 2013 Editrice Gastroenterologica Italiana S.r.l. Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dld.2013.09.001
PMID: 24091116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Mol Biol Rep. 2013 Nov;40(11):6233-44. doi: 10.1007/s11033-013-2735-8. Epub
2013  Oct 5.

cDNA cloning and mRNA expression of retinoid-X-receptor in the ovary of the 
shrimp Metapenaeus ensis.

Cui J(1), Wu L, Chan SM, Chu KH.

Author information:
(1)Simon F. S. Li Marine Science Laboratory, School of Life Sciences, The 
Chinese University of Hong Kong, Shatin, N.T., Hong Kong SAR, China.

Retinoid-X-receptor (RXR) plays an essential role in the molting process of 
decapod crustaceans, by forming a heterodimeric complex with the ecdysteroid 
receptor. However, its role during female reproduction, especially in the 
process of ovarian maturation, has not been characterized. To get an insight 
into the molecular events governing the process of ovarian maturation in 
shrimps, the full-length cDNA of RXR from Metapenaeus ensis was cloned by 
extension of truncated cDNA by using the RACE technique. The open reading frame 
of MeRXR encodes a 410 amino acid protein with a deduced molecular weight of 
44.8 kDa, and putative pI of 6.64, which roughly matched our observation from 
2DE gel. Phylogenetic analysis showed that MeRXR has high similarity to RXR of 
Penaeus chinensis and P. japonicus. RT-PCR revealed that MeRXR was universally 
expressed in all tissues investigated. The variation in MeRXR mRNA expression 
pattern during ovarian maturation was further analyzed by real-time PCR. In 
contrast to the decrease in MeRXR at protein level with ovarian maturation, 
MeRXR mRNA level was low in pre-vitellogenic and mid-vitellogenic ovaries, and 
increased significantly from mid-vitellogenic to late-vitellogenic stages. This 
result suggests that MeRXR transcripts in the mature ovary probably act as 
maternal messages for regulating early molting events during embryonic 
development.

DOI: 10.1007/s11033-013-2735-8
PMID: 24091942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. Cold Spring Harb Symp Quant Biol. 2013;78:157-72. doi: 
10.1101/sqb.2013.78.019968. Epub 2013 Oct 3.

Immunology taught by human genetics.

Casanova JL(1), Abel L(2), Quintana-Murci L(3).

Author information:
(1)St. Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller 
Branch, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065 Laboratory of Human 
Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM U980, Necker Hospital for 
Sick Children, Paris 75015, France Paris Descartes University, Imagine 
Institute, Necker Hospital, Paris 75015, France casanova@rockefeller.edu.
(2)St. Giles Laboratory of Human Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Rockefeller 
Branch, The Rockefeller University, New York, New York 10065 Laboratory of Human 
Genetics of Infectious Diseases, Necker Branch, INSERM U980, Necker Hospital for 
Sick Children, Paris 75015, France Paris Descartes University, Imagine 
Institute, Necker Hospital, Paris 75015, France.
(3)Unit of Human Evolutionary Genetics, Pasteur Institute, Paris 75015, France 
CNRS URA 3012, Paris 75015, France.

Human genetic studies are rarely conducted for immunological purposes. Instead, 
they are typically driven by medical and evolutionary goals, such as 
understanding the predisposition or resistance to infectious or inflammatory 
diseases, the pathogenesis of such diseases, and human evolution in the context 
of the long-standing relationships between humans and their commensal and 
environmental microbes. However, the dissection of these experiments of Nature 
has also led to major immunological advances. In this review, we draw on some of 
the immunological lessons learned in the three branches of human molecular 
genetics most relevant to immunology: clinical genetics, epidemiological 
genetics, and evolutionary genetics. We argue that human genetics has become a 
new frontier not only for timely studies of specific features of human immunity, 
but also for defining general principles of immunity. These studies teach us 
about immunity as it occurs under "natural" conditions, through the transition 
from the almost complete wilderness that existed worldwide until about a century 
ago to the current unevenly distributed medically shaped environment. Hygiene, 
vaccines, antibiotics, and surgery have considerably decreased the burden of 
infection, but these interventions have been available only recently, so have 
yet to have a major impact on patterns of genomic diversity, making it possible 
to carry out unbiased evolutionary studies at the population level. Clinical 
genetic studies of childhood phenotypes have not been blurred by modern medicine 
either. Instead, medical advances have actually facilitated such studies, by 
making it possible for children with life-threatening infections to survive. In 
addition, the prevention and treatment of infectious diseases have increased 
life expectancy at birth from ∼20 yr to ∼80 yr, providing unique opportunities 
to study the genetic basis of immunological phenomena against which there is no 
natural counterselection, such as reactivation and secondary infectious diseases 
and breakdown of self-tolerance manifesting as autoimmunity, in populations of 
adult and aging patients. Recently developed deep sequencing and stem cell 
technologies are of unprecedented power, and their application to human genetics 
is opening up exciting and timely possibilities for young immunologists seeking 
uncharted waters to explore.

Copyright © 2013 Cold Spring Harbor Laboratory Press; all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1101/sqb.2013.78.019968
PMID: 24092470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2013 Dec;11(6):653-60. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-013-0057-6.

Incremental cost effectiveness of pharmacist-managed erythropoiesis-stimulating 
agent clinics for non-dialysis-dependent chronic kidney disease patients.

Aspinall SL(1), Smith KJ, Good CB, Zhao X, Stone RA, Tonnu-Mihara IQ, Cunningham 
FE.

Author information:
(1)VA Center for Medication Safety, Hines, IL, USA, sherrie.aspinall@va.gov.

BACKGROUND: Pharmacists successfully manage patients with anemia and chronic 
kidney disease (CKD), but the cost effectiveness of these programs is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost effectiveness of pharmacist-managed 
erythropoiesis-stimulating agent (ESA) clinics with that of usual care in 
patients with non-dialysis-dependent (NDD)-CKD.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to estimate the incremental cost effectiveness 
of pharmacist-managed ESA clinics compared with usual care in outpatient 
veterans receiving ESAs for NDD-CKD in 2009. The analysis was conducted from a 
US Veterans Health Administration perspective with a 5-year time horizon, and 
the year of valuation for cost results was 2012. The effect of parameter 
uncertainty was explored in one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: In the deterministic base case analysis, costs and effectiveness per 
patient over 5 years were US$13,412 and 2.096 quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) in the pharmacist-managed ESA clinics and US$16,173 and 2.093 QALYs in 
usual care; ESA clinics dominated usual care. In one-way sensitivity analyses, 
ESA clinics no longer dominated if their patients' probability of being in the 
target hemoglobin range fell to 52 % (base case 71 %) or if the mean 
cost/patient/month of epoetin or darbepoetin in ESA clinics increased to 
approximately US$382 (base case US$226) or US$477 (base case US$268), 
respectively. When all parameters were varied simultaneously in a probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis, ESA clinics were favored ≥80 % of the time at 
willingness-to-pay thresholds of US$0-$100,000 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Pharmacist-managed ESA clinics were less costly and more effective 
than usual care in patients receiving ESAs for anemia and NDD-CKD. Results were 
robust to variation and support the use of pharmacist-managed ESA clinics.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-013-0057-6
PMID: 24092553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. J Crohns Colitis. 2014 May;8(5):357-62. doi: 10.1016/j.crohns.2013.09.015.
Epub  2013 Oct 2.

Cost and quality-adjusted life year differences in the treatment of active 
ulcerative colitis using once-daily 4 g or twice-daily 2g mesalazine dosing.

Connolly MP(1), Kuyvenhoven JP(2), Postma MJ(3), Nielsen SK(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Groningen, Department of Pharmacy, Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology 
& PharmacoEconomics, Groningen, Netherlands; Global Market Access Solutions, 
Mooresville, NC, USA. Electronic address: m.connolly@rug.nl.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Kennemer Gasthuis, Haarlem, The Netherlands. 
Electronic address: johan.kuif@hotmail.nl.
(3)University of Groningen, Department of Pharmacy, Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology 
& PharmacoEconomics, Groningen, Netherlands. Electronic address: 
m.j.postma@rug.nl.
(4)Ferring International Center, Saint-Prex, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
skn@ferring.com.

BACKGROUND: Improved compliance in active ulcerative colitis (UC) is likely to 
improve healthcare efficiency by reducing time spent in active mild to moderate 
UC state. To establish whether once daily (OD) mesalazine offers economic 
advantages over twice daily (BD) dosing in active UC, we evaluated the outcomes 
and costs of a recently published randomized study.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness model with four week Markov cycles was developed 
to reflect current treatment practices in the Netherlands with OD and BD 
mesalazine for active UC. The health service perspective of the Netherlands was 
reflected in the model and considered a 32week time horizon with 4 weekly Markov 
cycles. Outcomes evaluated in the model were time spent in active and remission 
UC and the corresponding health-related quality of life associated with 
different clinical states. This was then used to derive quality adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) at each treatment stage.
RESULTS: A greater proportion of subjects on 4 g OD achieved remission at weeks 
4 and 8 compared with 2g BD. After 32 weeks the average costs per patient with 
active UC were €3097 and €3548 for those treated with OD and BD mesalazine 
respectively, with an average saving of €451 per patient treated with OD 
mesalazine. The average costs per QALY for OD and BD mesalazine were €5433 and 
€6324 for OD and BD, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the results from a single randomized study, OD dosing 
resulted in a shorter time spent in active UC which resulted in lower healthcare 
costs.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crohns.2013.09.015
PMID: 24094599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. J Subst Abuse Treat. 2014 Feb;46(2):128-33. doi: 10.1016/j.jsat.2013.08.006.
 Epub 2013 Oct 2.

The cost-effectiveness of depression treatment for co-occurring disorders: a 
clinical trial.

Watkins KE(1), Cuellar AE, Hepner KA, Hunter SB, Paddock SM, Ewing BA, de la 
Cruz E.

Author information:
(1)RAND Corporation, Santa Monica, CA 90401, USA. Electronic address: 
kwatkins@rand.org.

The authors aimed to determine the economic value of providing on-site group 
cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) for depression to clients receiving 
residential substance use disorder (SUD) treatment. Using a quasi-experimental 
design and an intention-to-treat analysis, the incremental cost-effectiveness 
and cost-utility ratio of the intervention were estimated relative to usual care 
residential treatment. The average cost of a treatment episode was $908, 
compared to $180 for usual care. The incremental cost effectiveness ratio was 
$131 for each point improvement of the BDI-II and $49 for each additional 
depression-free day. The incremental cost-utility ratio ranged from $9,249 to 
$17,834 for each additional quality adjusted life year. Although the 
intervention costs substantially more than usual care, the cost effectiveness 
and cost-utility ratios compare favorably to other depression interventions. 
Health care reform should promote dissemination of group CBT to individuals with 
depression in residential SUD treatment.

© 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsat.2013.08.006
PMCID: PMC3840153
PMID: 24094613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2013 Dec;46(6):614-7. doi:
10.1016/j.ejvs.2013.09.020.  Epub 2013 Sep 25.

Part one: for the motion. young patients with good risk factors should be 
treated with EVAR.

Vallabhaneni R(1), Farber MA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC, 
USA.

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2013 Dec;46(6):618-21.
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2013 Dec;46(6):622-3.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejvs.2013.09.020
PMID: 24094940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Int J Parasitol. 2014 Jan;44(1):1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ijpara.2013.08.004. Epub
 2013 Oct 3.

The dauer hypothesis and the evolution of parasitism: 20 years on and still 
going strong.

Crook M(1).

Author information:
(1)103 Life Sciences Building, The Pennsylvania State University, University 
Park, PA 16802, USA. Electronic address: mxc83@psu.edu.

How any complex trait has evolved is a fascinating question, yet the evolution 
of parasitism among the nematodes is arguably one of the most arresting. How did 
free-living nematodes cross that seemingly insurmountable evolutionary chasm 
between soil dwelling and survival inside another organism? Which of the many 
finely honed responses to the varied and harsh environments of free-living 
nematodes provided the material upon which natural selection could act? Although 
several complementary theories explain this phenomenon, I will focus on the 
dauer hypothesis. The dauer hypothesis posits that the arrested third-stage 
dauer larvae of free-living nematodes such as Caenorhabditis elegans are, due to 
their many physiological similarities with infective third-stage larvae of 
parasitic nematodes, a pre-adaptation to parasitism. If so, then a logical 
extension of this hypothesis is that the molecular pathways which control entry 
into and recovery from dauer formation by free-living nematodes in response to 
environmental cues have been co-opted to control the processes of infective 
larval arrest and activation in parasitic nematodes. The molecular machinery 
that controls dauer entry and exit is present in a wide range of parasitic 
nematodes. However, the developmental outputs of the different pathways are both 
conserved and divergent, not only between populations of C. elegans or between 
C. elegans and parasitic nematodes but also between different species of 
parasitic nematodes. Thus the picture that emerges is more nuanced than 
originally predicted and may provide insights into the evolution of such an 
interesting and complex trait.

Copyright © 2013 Australian Society for Parasitology Inc. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpara.2013.08.004
PMCID: PMC3947200
PMID: 24095839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Life Sci. 2013 Nov 6;93(20):732-41. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2013.09.023. Epub
2013  Oct 3.

Saccharin enhances neurite extension by regulating organization of the 
microtubules.

Yamashita H(1), Muroi Y, Ishii T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Basic Veterinary Medicine, Obihiro University of Agriculture 
and Veterinary Medicine, Obihiro Hokkaido, Japan.

AIMS: In the present study, we found that saccharin, an artificial calorie-free 
sweetener, promotes neurite extension in the cultured neuronal cells. The 
purposes of this study are to characterize the effect of saccharine on neurite 
extension and to determine how saccharin enhances neurite extension.
MAIN METHODS: The analyses were performed using mouse neuroblastoma N1E-115 
cells and rat pheochromocytoma PC12 cells. Neurite extension was evaluated by 
counting the cells bearing neurites and measuring the length of neurites. 
Formation, severing and transportation of the microtubules were evaluated by 
immunostaining and western blotting analysis.
KEY FINDINGS: Deprivation of glucose increased the number of N1E-115 cells 
bearing long processes. And the effect was inhibited by addition of glucose. 
Saccharin increased the number of these cells bearing long processes in a 
dose-dependent manner and total neurite length and longest neurite length in 
each cell. Saccharin also had a similar effect on NGF-treated PC12 cells. 
Saccharin increased the amount of the microtubules reconstructed after treatment 
with nocodazole, a disruptor of microtubules. The effect of saccharin on 
microtubule reconstruction was not influenced by dihydrocytochalasin B, an 
inhibitor of actin polymerization, indicating that saccharin enhances 
microtubule formation without requiring actin dynamics. In the cells treated 
with vinblastine, an inhibitor of microtubule polymerization, after microtubule 
reorganization, filamentous microtubules were observed more distantly from the 
centrosome in saccharin-treated cells, indicating that saccharin enhances 
microtubule severing and/or transportation.
SIGNIFICANCE: These results suggest that saccharin enhances neurite extension by 
promoting microtubule organization.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2013.09.023
PMID: 24095948 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Lifetime Data Anal. 2015 Jan;21(1):97-118. doi: 10.1007/s10985-013-9283-3.
Epub  2013 Oct 5.

Confidence bands for the difference between two median survival times as a 
function of covariates.

Chen YI(1), Chang YM, Lee JY.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Statistics, National Central University, Jhongli, 320, Taiwan, 
ROC, ychen@stat.ncu.edu.tw.

In this paper, the estimation of the difference between two median survival 
times is considered when two treatment groups of right-censored data and the 
associated covariates are available. To identify the possible range of 
covariates over which the two treatments would produce different median survival 
times, two confidence bands for the difference as a function of the covariates 
are proposed under the stratified and treatment-specific Cox models, 
respectively. The results of a simulation study indicate that the latter 
generally maintains its confidence level and the former holds its confidence 
level and preserves a narrower width when the two treatments satisfy the 
stratified Cox model. An application of the proposed confidence bands is finally 
illustrated with a data set in a two-arm lung cancer study.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-013-9283-3
PMID: 24096594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Ann Surg. 2014 Jun;259(6):1215-22. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000000233.

Is surveillance imaging effective for detecting surgically treatable recurrences 
in patients with melanoma? A comparative analysis of stage-specific surveillance 
strategies.

Rueth NM(1), Xing Y, Chiang YJ, Cromwell KD, Ross MI, Lee JE, Gershenwald JE, 
Royal RE, Cormier JN.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Surgical Oncology †Institute of Cancer Care Excellence 
‡Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, 
Houston, TX.

OBJECTIVE: To guide resource utilization, we aimed to determine the impact of 
routine surveillance imaging for the detection of melanoma recurrences amenable 
to surgical resection with curative intent.
BACKGROUND: The National Comprehensive Cancer Network guidelines for melanoma 
surveillance are largely consensus based.
METHODS: Using single-institution, patient-level data (n = 1600), transition 
probabilities were calculated for a Markov model simulating the natural history 
of patients with stage I-III melanoma. As a base estimate, imaging was assumed 
to detect regional and distant recurrences of which 80% and 20% could be 
surgically treated with curative intent, respectively. Sensitivity analyses were 
conducted for all point estimates. For each disease stage, we calculated the 
number of surgically treatable regional or distant recurrence detected during 5 
years per 10,000 patients undergoing computed tomography (CT) or positron 
emission tomography (PET)/CT scans at 6- or 12-month intervals. The associated 
positive and negative predictive values and life expectancy were also calculated 
and compared with clinical examination alone.
RESULTS: At 5-year follow-up, CT or PET/CT at 6-month intervals detected 
surgically treatable regional or distant recurrence in 6.4% of patients with 
stage I, 18.5% of stage II, and 33.1% of stage III disease; 12-month intervals 
decreased the rates to 3.0%, 7.9%, and 13.0%, respectively. The high 
false-positive rates of CT (20%) and PET/CT (9%) resulted in overall low 
positive predictive values. However, both CT and PET/CT effectively predicted 
absence of disease. Life-expectancy gains were minimal (≤ 2 months) for all 
groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The effectiveness of routine surveillance imaging for detecting 
treatable melanoma recurrences is limited. Even in patients with stage III 
disease, only minimal gains in life expectancy were achieved.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000000233
PMID: 24096759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. South Med J. 2013 Oct;106(10):577-81. doi: 10.1097/SMJ.0000000000000002.

Acute sinusitis.

Feldt B(1), Dion GR, Weitzel EK, McMains KC.

Author information:
(1)From the Wilford Hall Ambulatory Surgery Center, Lackland Air Force Base, San 
Antonio, the San Antonio Military Medical Center, Brooke Army Medical Center, 
Fort Sam Houston, and the Audie L. Murphy Veterans Hospital, South Texas 
Veterans Health Care, San Antonio, Texas.

Sinusitis is a common patient complaint that carries with it a large economic 
burden. It is one of the most common reasons patients visit their primary care 
physician. Acute bacterial rhinosinusitis (ABRS) can be distinguished from other 
forms of rhinosinusitis based on symptom duration of <4 weeks in a patient with 
purulent rhinorrhea associated with facial pain or pressure. Native upper 
aerodigestive tract bacteria are the most common etiologic agents. Treatment of 
ABRS is targeted primarily at symptom improvement. Amoxicillin can be used based 
on the clinical scenario and patient comorbidities. Computed tomographic scans 
are reserved for complicated presentations or when there is concern for 
intracranial extension or other complications. A systematic approach to ABRS 
will allow for improved patient quality of life and a decreased overall economic 
burden of this common entity.

DOI: 10.1097/SMJ.0000000000000002
PMID: 24096952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


193. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2014 Jan;53(1):138-44. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/ket304.  Epub 2013 Oct 4.

A cost-utility analysis of alternative drug regimens for newly diagnosed severe 
lupus nephritis patients in Thailand.

Mohara A(1), Pérez Velasco R, Praditsitthikorn N, Avihingsanon Y, 
Teerawattananon Y.

Author information:
(1)Health Intervention and Technology Assessment Program (HITAP), 6th floor, 6th 
building, Department of Health, Ministry of Public Health, Tiwanon Road, Muang, 
Nonthaburi, 11000 Thailand. adun.m@hitap.net.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the value of four drug regimens 
for newly diagnosed severe LN from a societal perspective.
METHODS: A model-based cost-utility analysis was devised to measure lifetime 
costs and health outcomes. Current treatment options consisting of different 
combinations of i.v. CYC, AZA and MMF were compared with a baseline regimen of 
i.v. CYC in both the induction and maintenance phases. Resource use and costs 
were derived from medical records reviews and databases. Event rates were 
elicited from randomized controlled trials. Relative treatment effects were 
obtained from meta-analyses. Health utilities were obtained from a real cohort 
of patients to estimate the outcome of quality-adjusted life years.
RESULTS: It was found that a treatment regimen that combined i.v. CYC in the 
induction phase with AZA in the maintenance phase was cost saving compared with 
the baseline regimen. Treatment with i.v. CYC in the induction phase and MMF in 
the maintenance phase and treatment with MMF in the induction phase and a 
reduced dose of the same in the maintenance phase turned out to be a negatively 
dominated regimen.
CONCLUSION: In the Thai context, the combination of i.v. CYC for the induction 
phase followed by AZA for the maintenance phase should be considered as the 
first-line therapy for newly diagnosed severe LN, as it seems to be the most 
cost-saving regimen.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/ket304
PMID: 24097289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


194. Drugs Aging. 2013 Dec;30(12):959-67. doi: 10.1007/s40266-013-0123-7.

Locally advanced prostate cancer: optimal therapy in older patients.

Froehner M(1), Wirth MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital "Carl Gustav Carus", Dresden 
University of Technology, Fetscherstrasse 74, 01304, Dresden, Germany, 
Michael.Froehner@uniklinikum-dresden.de.

There is no standard treatment for locally advanced prostate cancer. Even the 
definition is still unclear. Locally advanced disease may refer to over-staged 
well-curable tumors as well as to advanced and probably incurable cancers. 
Similar uncertainties are present regarding the definition of 'old' in this 
context. Conservatively treated locally advanced prostate cancer is associated 
with poor survival outcome. With the increasing life expectancy, in the absence 
of curative treatment, even patients in their ninth decade of life may later 
suffer from symptoms of aggressive prostate cancer and are at a high risk of 
death from prostate cancer that might be prevented at least in part by early 
intervention. On the other hand, functional results after prostate cancer 
treatment are worse in elderly patients. In this article we discuss aspects of 
the management of locally advanced prostate cancer in the elderly with special 
focus on the recommendation of current clinical guidelines.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-013-0123-7
PMID: 24097331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


195. Health Policy Plan. 2014 Sep;29(6):795-808. doi: 10.1093/heapol/czt064. Epub
 2013 Oct 4.

The cost of injury and trauma care in low- and middle-income countries: a review 
of economic evidence.

Wesson HK(1), Boikhutso N(2), Bachani AM(2), Hofman KJ(2), Hyder AA(3).

Author information:
(1)International Injury Research Unit, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns 
Hopkins University, 615 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA, Department 
of Surgery, Virginia Commonwealth University Medical Center, 1200 East Broad 
Street, Richmond, VA 23298, USA, University of Witwatersrand Faculty of Health 
Sciences, School of Public Health, 27 St Andrews Road, Parktown, Johannesburg 
2193, Medical Reserach Council, Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions 
Research Unit, School of Public Health, University of Witwatersrand, 7 York 
Road, Parktown 2193, Johannesburg, South Africa International Injury Research 
Unit, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, 615 North 
Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA, Department of Surgery, Virginia 
Commonwealth University Medical Center, 1200 East Broad Street, Richmond, VA 
23298, USA, University of Witwatersrand Faculty of Health Sciences, School of 
Public Health, 27 St Andrews Road, Parktown, Johannesburg 2193, Medical Reserach 
Council, Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit, School 
of Public Health, University of Witwatersrand, 7 York Road, Parktown 2193, 
Johannesburg, South Africa.
(2)International Injury Research Unit, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns 
Hopkins University, 615 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA, Department 
of Surgery, Virginia Commonwealth University Medical Center, 1200 East Broad 
Street, Richmond, VA 23298, USA, University of Witwatersrand Faculty of Health 
Sciences, School of Public Health, 27 St Andrews Road, Parktown, Johannesburg 
2193, Medical Reserach Council, Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions 
Research Unit, School of Public Health, University of Witwatersrand, 7 York 
Road, Parktown 2193, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(3)International Injury Research Unit, Bloomberg School of Public Health, Johns 
Hopkins University, 615 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD 21205, USA, Department 
of Surgery, Virginia Commonwealth University Medical Center, 1200 East Broad 
Street, Richmond, VA 23298, USA, University of Witwatersrand Faculty of Health 
Sciences, School of Public Health, 27 St Andrews Road, Parktown, Johannesburg 
2193, Medical Reserach Council, Wits Rural Public Health and Health Transitions 
Research Unit, School of Public Health, University of Witwatersrand, 7 York 
Road, Parktown 2193, Johannesburg, South Africa ahyder@jhsph.edu.

INTRODUCTION: Injuries are a significant cause of mortality and morbidity, of 
which more than 90% occur in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs). Given the 
extent of this burden being confronted by LMICs, there is need to place injury 
prevention at the forefront of public health initiatives and to understand the 
costs associated with injury. The aim of this article is to describe the extent 
to which injury-related costing studies have been conducted in LMICs.
METHODS: A review of literature was performed to explore costing data available 
for injury and/or trauma care in LMICs. Study quality was described using 
recommendations from the Community Guide's quality assessment tool for economic 
evaluations.
RESULTS: The review identified 68 studies, of which 13 were full economic 
evaluations. Cost of injury varied widely with mean costs ranging from US$14 to 
US$17 400. In terms of injury-prevention interventions, cost per disability 
adjusted life year averted for injury-prevention interventions ranged from 
US$10.90 for speed bump installation to US$17 000 for drunk driving and breath 
testing campaigns in Africa. The studies varied in quality, ranging from very 
good to unsatisfactory.
DISCUSSION: There is a lack of injury-related economic evidence from LMICs. 
Current costing research has considerable variability in the costs and cost 
descriptions of injury and associated prevention interventions. The 
generalizability of these studies is limited. Yet the economic burden of injury 
is high, suggesting significant potential for cost savings through injury 
prevention. A standardized approach to economic evaluation of injury in LMICs is 
needed to further prioritize investing in injury prevention.

Published by Oxford University Press in association with The London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine © The Author 2013; all rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/heapol/czt064
PMCID: PMC4153302
PMID: 24097794 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


196. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 2;8(10):e73979. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073979. 
eCollection 2013.

Mortality and life expectancy in homeless men and women in Rotterdam: 2001-2010.

Nusselder WJ(1), Slockers MT, Krol L, Slockers CT, Looman CW, van Beeck EF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Data on mortality among homeless people are limited. Therefore, this 
study aimed to describe mortality patterns within a cohort of homeless adults in 
Rotterdam (the Netherlands) and to assess excess mortality as compared to the 
general population in that city.
METHODS: Based on 10-year follow-up of homeless adults aged ≥ 20 years who 
visited services for homeless people in Rotterdam in 2001, and on vital 
statistics, we assessed the association of mortality with age, sex and type of 
service used (e.g. only day care, convalescence care, other) within the homeless 
cohort, and also compared mortality between the homeless and general population 
using Poisson regression. Life tables and decomposition methods were used to 
examine differences in life expectancy.
RESULTS: During follow-up, of the 2096 adult homeless 265 died. Among the 
homeless, at age 30 years no significant sex differences were found in overall 
mortality rates and life expectancy. Compared with the general Rotterdam 
population, mortality rates were 3.5 times higher in the homeless cohort. Excess 
mortality was larger in women (rate ratio [RR] RR 5.56, 95% CI 3.95-7.82) as 
compared to men (RR 3.31, 95% CI 2.91-3.77), and decreased with age (RR 7.67, 
95% CI 6.87-8.56 for the age group 20-44 and RR 1.63, 95% CI 1.41-1.88 for the 
age group 60+ years). Life expectancy at age 30 years was 11.0 (95% CI 9.1-12.9) 
and 15.9 (95% CI 10.3-21.5) years lower for homeless men and women compared to 
men and women in the general population respectively.
CONCLUSION: Homeless adults face excessive losses in life expectancy, with 
greatest disadvantages among homeless women and the younger age groups.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073979
PMCID: PMC3788767
PMID: 24098329 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


197. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 2;8(10):e75004. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075004. 
eCollection 2013.

Weather forecasting by insects: modified sexual behaviour in response to 
atmospheric pressure changes.

Pellegrino AC(1), Peñaflor MF, Nardi C, Bezner-Kerr W, Guglielmo CG, Bento JM, 
McNeil JN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology and Acarology, University of São Paulo, Escola 
Superior de Agricultura "Luiz de Queiroz" (ESALQ), Piracicaba, SP, Brazil.

Prevailing abiotic conditions may positively or negatively impact insects at 
both the individual and population levels. For example while moderate rainfall 
and wind velocity may provide conditions that favour development, as well as 
movement within and between habitats, high winds and heavy rains can 
significantly decrease life expectancy. There is some evidence that insects 
adjust their behaviours associated with flight, mating and foraging in response 
to changes in barometric pressure. We studied changes in different mating 
behaviours of three taxonomically unrelated insects, the curcurbit beetle, 
Diabrotica speciosa (Coleoptera), the true armyworm moth, Pseudaletia unipuncta 
(Lepidoptera) and the potato aphid, Macrosiphum euphorbiae (Hemiptera), when 
subjected to natural or experimentally manipulated changes in atmospheric 
pressure. In response to decreasing barometric pressure, male beetles exhibited 
decreased locomotory activity in a Y-tube olfactometer with female pheromone 
extracts. However, when placed in close proximity to females, they exhibited 
reduced courtship sequences and the precopulatory period. Under the same 
situations, females of the true armyworm and the potato aphid exhibited 
significantly reduced calling behaviour. Neither the movement of male beetles 
nor the calling of armyworm females differed between stable and increasing 
atmospheric pressure conditions. However, in the case of the armyworm there was 
a significant decrease in the incidence of mating under rising atmospheric 
conditions, suggesting an effect on male behaviour. When atmospheric pressure 
rose, very few M. euphorbiae oviparae called. This was similar to the situation 
observed under decreasing conditions, and consequently very little mating was 
observed in this species except under stable conditions. All species exhibited 
behavioural modifications, but there were interspecific differences related to 
size-related flight ability and the diel periodicity of mating activity. We 
postulate that the observed behavioral modifications, especially under 
decreasing barometric pressure would reduce the probability of injury or death 
under adverse weather conditions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075004
PMCID: PMC3788776
PMID: 24098362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


198. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 30;8(9):e75111. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075111. 
eCollection 2013.

Mice lacking the p43 mitochondrial T3 receptor become glucose intolerant and 
insulin resistant during aging.

Bertrand C(1), Blanchet E, Pessemesse L, Annicotte JS, Feillet-Coudray C, Chabi 
B, Levin J, Fajas L, Cabello G, Wrutniak-Cabello C, Casas F.

Author information:
(1)INRA, Institut National de la Recherche Agronomique, UMR866 Dynamique 
Musculaire et Métabolisme, Montpellier, France; Université Montpellier 1, 
Montpellier, France; Université Montpellier 2, Montpellier, France.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2014;9(1). 
doi:10.1371/annotation/844c2e7b-2f5f-4982-85d2-b82debdeffb1.

Thyroid hormones (TH) play an important regulatory role in energy expenditure 
regulation and are key regulators of mitochondrial activity. We have previously 
identified a mitochondrial triiodothyronine (T3) receptor (p43) which acts as a 
mitochondrial transcription factor of the organelle genome, which leads in vitro 
and in vivo, to a stimulation of mitochondrial biogenesis. Recently, we 
generated mice carrying a specific p43 invalidation. At 2 months of age, we 
reported that p43 depletion in mice induced a major defect in insulin secretion 
both in vivo and in isolated pancreatic islets, and a loss of glucose-stimulated 
insulin secretion. The present study was designed to determine whether p43 
invalidation influences life expectancy and modulates blood glucose and insulin 
levels as well as glucose tolerance or insulin sensitivity during aging. We 
report that from 4 months old onwards, mice lacking p43 are leaner than 
wild-type mice. p43-/- mice also have a moderate reduction of life expectancy 
compared to wild type. We found no difference in blood glucose levels, excepted 
at 24 months old where p43-/- mice showed a strong hyperglycemia in fasting 
conditions compared to controls animals. However, the loss of glucose-stimulated 
insulin secretion was maintained whatever the age of mice lacking p43. If up to 
12 months old, glucose tolerance remained unchanged, beyond this age p43-/- mice 
became increasingly glucose intolerant. In addition, if up to 12 months old p43 
deficient animals were more sensitive to insulin, after this age we observed a 
loss of this capacity, culminating in 24 months old mice with a decreased 
sensitivity to the hormone. In conclusion, we demonstrated that during aging the 
depletion of the mitochondrial T3 receptor p43 in mice progressively induced an 
increased glycemia in the fasted state, glucose intolerance and an 
insulin-resistance several features of type-2 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0075111
PMCID: PMC3787095
PMID: 24098680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


199. J Occup Health Psychol. 2013 Oct;18(4):430-48. doi: 10.1037/a0034016.

It's self defense: how perceived discrimination promotes employee withdrawal.

Volpone SD(1), Avery DR.

Author information:
(1)Anderson School of Management.

Erratum in
    J Occup Health Psychol. 2014 Jan;19(1):45.

Integrating theory on stress, stigma, and coping, the present study sheds light 
on how employees react to perceived discrimination (PD) in the workplace. Using 
three national samples, we found that PD based on race, sex, age, family 
obligation, and sexual orientation related to physical withdrawal (i.e., 
lateness, absenteeism,and intent to quit) indirectly through psychological 
withdrawal (i.e., burnout and engagement) such that PD corresponded in less 
engagement and more burnout, which related to increased lateness, absenteeism, 
and intent to quit [corrected].Further, these indirect relationships were 
moderated by employees' coping mechanisms with those who were more apt to change 
the situation or to avoid the stressor exhibiting weaker relationships between 
PD and psychological withdrawal. Though each of these studies is cross-sectional 
in nature and therefore cannot provide strong evidence of causal ordering of the 
variables in our model, the replication and extension of results over three 
databases and multiple forms of discrimination, coping, psychological, and 
physical withdrawal demonstrates that understanding the relationships explored 
in these studies can aid researchers and practitioners in enhancing employee 
quality of life and productivity.

DOI: 10.1037/a0034016
PMID: 24099162 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. BMC Public Health. 2013 Oct 8;13:936. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-936.

Rationale, design and methods for a community-based study of clustering and 
cumulative effects of chronic disease processes and their effects on ageing: the 
Busselton healthy ageing study.

James A(1), Hunter M, Straker L, Beilby J, Bucks R, Davis T, Eikelboom RH, 
Hillman D, Hui J, Hung J, Knuiman M, Mackey DA, Newton RU, Palmer LJ, Musk AB; 
Busselton Healthy Ageing Study Investigator Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Physiology and Sleep Medicine/West Australian Sleep 
Disorders Institute, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Nedlands, Perth, Australia. 
Alan.James.SCGH@health.wa.gov.au.

BACKGROUND: The global trend of increased life expectancy and increased 
prevalence of chronic and degenerative diseases will impact on health systems. 
To identify effective intervention and prevention strategies, greater 
understanding of the risk factors for and cumulative effects of chronic disease 
processes and their effects on function and quality of life is needed.The 
Busselton Healthy Ageing Study aims to enhance understanding of ageing by 
relating the clustering and interactions of common chronic conditions in adults 
to function. Longitudinal (3-5 yearly) follow-up is planned.
METHODS/DESIGN: Phase I (recruitment) is a cross-sectional community-based 
prospective cohort study involving up to 4,000 'Baby Boomers' (born from 1946 to 
1964) living in the Busselton Shire, Western Australia. The study protocol 
involves a detailed, self-administered health and risk factor questionnaire and 
a range of physical assessments including body composition and bone density 
measurements, cardiovascular profiling (blood pressure, ECG and brachial pulse 
wave velocity), retinal photography, tonometry, auto-refraction, spirometry and 
bronchodilator responsiveness, skin allergy prick tests, sleep apnoea screening, 
tympanometry and audiometry, grip strength, mobility, balance and leg extensor 
strength. Cognitive function and reserve, semantic memory, and pre-morbid 
intelligence are assessed. Participants provide a fasting blood sample for 
assessment of lipids, blood glucose, C-reactive protein and renal and liver 
function, and RNA, DNA and serum are stored. Clinically relevant results are 
provided to all participants. The prevalence of risk factors, symptoms and 
diagnosed illness will be calculated and the burden of illness will be estimated 
based on the observed relationships and clustering of symptoms and illness 
within individuals. Risk factors for combinations of illness will be compared 
with those for single illnesses and the relation of combinations of illness and 
symptoms to cognitive and physical function will be estimated.
DISCUSSION: This study will enable a thorough characterization of multiple 
disease processes and their risk factors within a community-based sample of 
individuals to determine their singular, interactive and cumulative effects on 
ageing. The project will provide novel cross-sectional data and establish a 
cohort that will be used for longitudinal analyses of the genetic, lifestyle and 
environmental factors that determine whether an individual ages well or with 
impairment.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-936
PMCID: PMC3852572
PMID: 24099269 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Can J Psychiatry. 2013 Sep;58(9):529-37. doi: 10.1177/070674371305800908.

The burden of mental illness and addiction in ontario.

Ratnasingham S(1), Cairney J, Manson H, Rehm J, Lin E, Kurdyak P.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiologist, Institute for Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Ontario.

Erratum in
    Can J Psychiatry. 2013 Oct;58(10):554.

OBJECTIVE: Public Health Ontario and the Institute for Clinical Evaluative 
Sciences have collaborated to estimate the burden of illness attributable to 
mental disorder and addictions in Ontario.
METHODS: Health-adjusted life years were used to estimate burden. It is 
conceptually similar to disability-adjusted life years that were used in the 
global burden of disease studies. Data sources for the mental illnesses and 
addictions used in our study included health administrative data for the 
province of Ontario, survey data from Statistics Canada and the Centre for 
Addiction and Mental Health, vital statistics data from the Ontario Office of 
the Registrar General, and US epidemiologic survey data.
RESULTS: The 5 conditions with the highest burden are: major depression, bipolar 
affective disorder, alcohol use disorders (AUDs), social phobia, and 
schizophrenia. The burden of depression is double the next highest mental health 
condition (that is, bipolar affective disorder) and is more than the combined 
burden of the 4 most common cancers in Ontario. AUDs were the only disease group 
that had a substantial proportion of burden attributable to early death. The 
burden estimates for the other conditions were primarily due to disability.
CONCLUSIONS: The burden of these conditions in Ontario is as large or larger 
than other conditions, such as cancer and infectious diseases, owing in large 
part to the high prevalence, chronicity, and age of onset for most mental 
disorders and addiction problems. The findings serve as an important baseline 
for future evaluation of interventions intended to address the burden of mental 
health and addictions.

Publisher: Objectif : Le service de Santé publique de l’Ontario et l’Institut 
pour les sciences évaluatives cliniques ont collaboré pour estimer le fardeau de 
la maladie attribuable aux trouble mentaux et aux toxicomanies en Ontario. 
Méthodes : Les années de vie ajustées en fonction de la santé ont servi à 
estimer le fardeau. Le concept est semblable aux années de vie ajustées en 
fonction de l’incapacité qui ont servi aux études sur le fardeau mondial de la 
maladie. Les sources de données sur les maladies mentales et les toxicomanies 
utilisées étaient notamment des données administratives sur la santé de la 
province de l’Ontario, des données d’enquête de Statistique Canada et du Centre 
de toxicomanie et de santé mentale, des données de l’état civil du Bureau du 
registraire général de l’Ontario, et des données de l’enquête épidémiologique 
américaine. Résultats : Les 5 affections dont le fardeau est le plus élevé sont 
: la dépression majeure, le trouble bipolaire affectif, les troubles liés à 
l’utilisation d’alcool (TUA), la phobie sociale, et la schizophrénie. Le fardeau 
de la dépression est le double de celui de l’affection mentale la plus proche 
(c’est-à-dire, le trouble bipolaire affectif) et est plus lourd que le fardeau 
combiné des 4 cancers les plus répandus en Ontario. Les TUA étaient le seul 
groupe de maladies dont une proportion substantielle du fardeau était 
attribuable au décès précoce. Les estimations du fardeau pour les autres 
affections étaient principalement attribuables à l’incapacité. Conclusions : Le 
fardeau de ces affections en Ontario est aussi plus lourd que celui d’autres 
affections, comme le cancer et les maladies infectieuses, ce qui s’explique en 
grande partie par la prévalence élevée, la chronicité, et l’âge de début de la 
plupart des troubles mentaux et des problèmes de toxicomanie. Les résultats 
servent de base importante à l’évaluation future des interventions destinées à 
aborder le fardeau de la maladie mentale et des toxicomanies.

DOI: 10.1177/070674371305800908
PMID: 24099501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Spinal Cord. 2013 Dec;51(12):937. doi: 10.1038/sc.2013.93. Epub 2013 Oct 8.

Discrepancies in the estimates of life expectancy after SCI.

Shavelle R(1), Strauss D, Brooks J.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Comment in
    Spinal Cord. 2013 Dec;51(12):938-9.

