template and Mg2+ concentrations. The extension efficiency and specificity were 
though linked, behave diametric during the gradient change of template and Mg2+ 
concentrations or annealing temperature. To obtain both optimal signal intensity 
and specificity, we introduced an artificial mismatched base at the third 
position from the primer 3'end, which enhanced the specificity significantly. 
The PicoGreen staining method, which could decrease the cost greatly, was then 
introduced to replace the fluorescent-labeled dNTP for signal detection.

PMID: 23923539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. BJU Int. 2013 Sep;112(5):543-7. doi: 10.1111/bju.12318.

American Urological Association (AUA) guideline on prostate cancer detection: 
process and rationale.

Carter HB(1).

Author information:
(1)The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Department of Urology, The 
James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, 
MD, USA.

To review the process and rationale for the American Urological Association 
(AUA) guideline on prostate cancer detection. The AUA guideline on detection of 
prostate cancer involved a systematic literature review of >300 studies that 
evaluated outcomes important to patients (prostate cancer, incidence/mortality, 
health-related quality of life, diagnostic accuracy and harms of testing). A 
multidisciplinary panel interpreted the evidence and formulated statements to 
assist the urologist and the asymptomatic average-risk man in decision-making 
about prostate cancer detection. Other than prostate-specific antigen 
(PSA)-based prostate cancer screening, there was no evidence to address the 
outcomes of interest to patients. The strongest evidence that benefits may 
outweigh harms was in men aged 55-69 years undergoing PSA-based screening. This 
led the panel to recommend shared decision-making for these men at average risk, 
but recommend against routine screening for other age groups at average risk. 
Further, to reduce the harms associated with screening (false positive tests, 
over diagnosis, over treatment), the panel recommended against annual screening 
for those who choose to be screened. A panel under the auspices of the AUA 
recommended shared decision-making for the average risk asymptomatic man aged 
55-69 years considering PSA-based screening for prostate cancer detection.

© 2013 The Author. BJU International © 2013 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/bju.12318
PMID: 23924423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Sports Med Arthrosc Rev. 2013 Sep;21(3):166-8. doi: 
10.1097/JSA.0b013e31829eb848.

Cost-effectiveness in orthopedics: providing essential information to both 
physicians and health care policy makers for appropriate allocation of medical 
resources.

Dougherty CP(1), Howard T.

Author information:
(1)Agility Center Orthopedics, Bentonville, AR 72712, USA.

Cost-effective analysis has become an important tool in helping determine what 
procedures are both cost-effective and appropriate in today's cost control 
health care. The quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) is a standard measure for 
health-related quality-of-life in medical cost-effectiveness research. It can be 
used to compare different interventions to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
each procedure. Use of QALY to compare health care interventions has become the 
new gold standard. The key words arthroscopy, cost-effectiveness analysis, QALY, 
shoulder, hip, knee, ankle, elbow, wrist, and pubic symphysis were searched 
utilizing PubMed and an internet search engine. Cost/QALY ratios were determined 
and compared with other surgical procedures using techniques other than 
arthroscopy. Cost/QALYs were found for the shoulder, hip, knee, and elbow. The 
QALY for the shoulder was $13,092, for a simple knee was $5783, for a hip 
$21,700, and for an elbow $2031. General costs were found for the ankle, wrist, 
and pubic symphysis, that could be used to estimate QALYs without the complex 
formal calculation. On the basis of our findings, arthroscopy is an extremely 
cost-effective allocation of health care resources.

DOI: 10.1097/JSA.0b013e31829eb848
PMID: 23924749 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Sports Med Arthrosc Rev. 2013 Sep;21(3):169-73. doi: 
10.1097/JSA.0b013e31829e0852.

PPD-QALY-an index for cost-effectiveness in orthopedics: providing essential 
information to both physicians and health care policy makers for appropriate 
allocation of medical resources.

Dougherty CP(1), Howard T.

Author information:
(1)Agility Center Orthopedics, Bentonville, AR 72712, USA.

Because of the increasing health care costs and the need for proper allocation 
of resources, it is important to ensure the best use of health benefits for sick 
and injured people of the population. An index or indicator is needed to help us 
quantify what is being spent so that comparisons with other options can be 
implemented. Cost-effective analysis seems to be well suited to provide this 
essential information to health care policy makers and those charged with 
distributing disability funds so that the proper allocation of resources can be 
achieved. There is currently no such index to show whether the benefits paid out 
are the most cost-effective. By comparing the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
of a treatment method to the disability an individual would experience, on the 
basis of lost wages as measure of disability, we provide decision makers more 
information for the basis of cost allocation in health care. To accomplish this, 
we describe a new term, the PPD-QALY (permanent partial disability-quality of 
life year). This term was developed to establish an index to which 
musculoskeletal care can be compared, to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a 
treatment on the basis of the monetary value of the disability. This term serves 
to standardize the monetary value of an injury. Cost-effective analysis in 
arthroscopic surgery may prove to be a valuable asset in this role and to 
provide decision makers the information needed to determine the societal benefit 
from new arthroscopic procedures as they are developed and implemented.

DOI: 10.1097/JSA.0b013e31829e0852
PMID: 23924750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Pediatr Cardiol. 2014 Feb;35(2):239-52. doi: 10.1007/s00246-013-0765-6. Epub
 2013 Aug 8.

How not to tell parents about their child's new diagnosis of congenital heart 
disease: an Internet survey of 841 parents.

Hilton-Kamm D(1), Sklansky M, Chang RK.

Author information:
(1)California Heart Connection, Irvine, CA, USA, DebraHiltonKamm@gmail.com.

An online survey for parents of children with congenital heart disease (CHD) was 
developed to study the perceptions and experiences of parents when receiving the 
diagnosis. The survey was distributed to online support groups. A total of 841 
responses from parents of children with CHD in the United States were received 
over a 4-week period in 2010. The authors hypothesized that the counseling and 
demeanor of the pediatric cardiologist (PC) may be important factors in 
determining whether parents of children with CHD seek second opinions, and that 
the terminology used in counseling may be variably interpreted. Of the 841 
respondents, 349 (41 %) received the diagnosis prenatally. A minority of the 
respondents received: support group information (14 %), Internet resources 
(21 %), success rates at other hospitals (16 %), or maximum ages of survivors 
(29 %). Among 26 % of the parents who reported seeking a second opinion from 
another PC, the majority (71 %) chose the second PC for long-term follow-up 
care. Those receiving a prenatal diagnosis were more likely to seek a second 
opinion than those receiving the diagnosis postnatally (32 vs 22 %; p < 0.01). 
Parents' perception of the PC's compassion and empathy was inversely related to 
the likelihood of seeking a second opinion. Parents were more likely to seek a 
second opinion when they were not optimistic about their child's life 
expectancy, felt pressured by the PC to terminate the pregnancy, were told that 
their child's death was "somewhat" or "very" likely, or were told the child's 
CHD was "rare" (all p < 0.01). Two thirds (66 %) of the respondents were told 
that their child's condition was "rare." The majority of these (77 %) reported 
that the term was used by the PC. "Rare" was interpreted as "occurring in less 
than a million births" by 25 %, and as "few or no other people alive with this 
defect" by 27 %. Parental interpretation of "rare" was unrelated to their levels 
of education. As reported by the respondents, 13 % felt pressured to terminate 
the pregnancy by the PC. Those with hypoplastic left heart syndrome were more 
likely to report feeling pressure to terminate the pregnancy by the PC (21 vs 
9 %; p < 0.001) or the perinatologist (23 vs 14 %; p = 0.026). The approach to 
counseling and the demeanor of the PC have important implications for parents' 
perceptions of their child's chance of survival. The information given at 
diagnosis, the manner in which it is presented, and the parents' understanding 
and interpretation of that information are critical factors in shaping parents' 
perceptions and management decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00246-013-0765-6
PMID: 23925415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


736. Hum Genet. 2013 Dec;132(12):1323-38. doi: 10.1007/s00439-013-1342-z. Epub
2013  Aug 8.

Genetics of healthy aging and longevity.

Brooks-Wilson AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Canada's Michael Smith Genome Sciences Centre, BC Cancer Agency, 675 West 
10th Avenue, Vancouver, BC, V5Z 1L3, Canada, abrooks-wilson@bcgsc.ca.

Longevity and healthy aging are among the most complex phenotypes studied to 
date. The heritability of age at death in adulthood is approximately 25 %. 
Studies of exceptionally long-lived individuals show that heritability is 
greatest at the oldest ages. Linkage studies of exceptionally long-lived 
families now support a longevity locus on chromosome 3; other putative longevity 
loci differ between studies. Candidate gene studies have identified variants at 
APOE and FOXO3A associated with longevity; other genes show inconsistent 
results. Genome-wide association scans (GWAS) of centenarians vs. younger 
controls reveal only APOE as achieving genome-wide significance (GWS); however, 
analyses of combinations of SNPs or genes represented among associations that do 
not reach GWS have identified pathways and signatures that converge upon genes 
and biological processes related to aging. The impact of these SNPs, which may 
exert joint effects, may be obscured by gene-environment interactions or 
inter-ethnic differences. GWAS and whole genome sequencing data both show that 
the risk alleles defined by GWAS of common complex diseases are, perhaps 
surprisingly, found in long-lived individuals, who may tolerate them by means of 
protective genetic factors. Such protective factors may 'buffer' the effects of 
specific risk alleles. Rare alleles are also likely to contribute to healthy 
aging and longevity. Epigenetics is quickly emerging as a critical aspect of 
aging and longevity. Centenarians delay age-related methylation changes, and 
they can pass this methylation preservation ability on to their offspring. 
Non-genetic factors, particularly lifestyle, clearly affect the development of 
age-related diseases and affect health and lifespan in the general population. 
To fully understand the desirable phenotypes of healthy aging and longevity, it 
will be necessary to examine whole genome data from large numbers of healthy 
long-lived individuals to look simultaneously at both common and rare alleles, 
with impeccable control for population stratification and consideration of 
non-genetic factors such as environment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00439-013-1342-z
PMCID: PMC3898394
PMID: 23925498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. JAMA Psychiatry. 2013 Oct;70(10):1011-9. doi:
10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2013.187.

Influence of CRTC1 polymorphisms on body mass index and fat mass in psychiatric 
patients and the general adult population.

Choong E(1), Quteineh L, Cardinaux JR, Gholam-Rezaee M, Vandenberghe F, Dobrinas 
M, Bondolfi G, Etter M, Holzer L, Magistretti P, von Gunten A, Preisig M, 
Vollenweider P, Beckmann JS, Pralong FP, Waeber G, Kutalik Z, Conus P, Bochud M, 
Eap CB; ODEX team.

Collaborators: McCarthy LC, Shen J, Nelson MR, Woollard PM, Nangle KL, Song K, 
Waterworth DM, Whittaker JC, Barroso I, Zeggini E, Day-Williams A, Lopes MC, 
Southam L, Tachmazidou I, Asimit J, Wheeler E, Scott CE, Coffey AJ, Tyler-Smith 
C, Xue Y, Chen Y, Durham J, Payne F, Hunt S, Beckmann JS, Bergmann S, Bochud M, 
Kutalik Z, Marques-Vidal P, Mooser V, Vollenweider P, Waeber G.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Pharmacogenetics and Clinical Psychopharmacology, Centre for 
Psychiatric Neuroscience, Department of Psychiatry, Lausanne University 
Hospital, Prilly, Switzerland.

IMPORTANCE: There is a high prevalence of obesity in psychiatric patients, 
possibly leading to metabolic complications and reducing life expectancy. The 
CREB-regulated transcription coactivator 1 (CRTC1) gene is involved in energy 
balance and obesity in animal models, but its role in human obesity is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether polymorphisms within the CRTC1 gene are 
associated with adiposity markers in psychiatric patients and the general 
population.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Retrospective and prospective data analysis 
and population-based samples at Lausanne and Geneva university hospitals in 
Switzerland and a private clinic in Lausanne, Switzerland. The effect of 3 CRTC1 
polymorphisms on body mass index (BMI) and/or fat mass was investigated in a 
discovery cohort of psychiatric outpatients taking weight gain-inducing 
psychotropic drugs (sample 1, n = 152). The CRTC1 variant that was significantly 
associated with BMI and survived Bonferroni corrections for multiple comparison 
was then replicated in 2 independent psychiatric samples (sample 2, n = 174 and 
sample 3, n = 118) and 2 white population-based samples (sample 4, n = 5338 and 
sample 5, n = 123,865).
INTERVENTION: Noninterventional studies.
MAIN OUTCOME AND MEASURE: Difference in BMI and/or fat mass between CRTC1 
genotype groups.
RESULTS: Among the CRTC1 variants tested in the first psychiatric sample, only 
rs3746266A>G was associated with BMI (P(adjusted) = .003). In the 3 psychiatric 
samples, carriers of the rs3746266 G allele had a lower BMI than noncarriers (AA 
genotype) (sample 1, P = .001; sample 2, P = .05; and sample 3, P = .0003). In 
the combined analysis, excluding patients taking other weight gain-inducing 
drugs, G allele carriers (n = 98) had a 1.81-kg/m² lower BMI than noncarriers (n 
= 226; P < .0001). The strongest association was observed in women younger than 
45 years, with a 3.87-kg/m² lower BMI in G allele carriers (n = 25) compared 
with noncarriers (n = 48; P < .0001), explaining 9% of BMI variance. In the 
population-based samples, the T allele of rs6510997C>T (a proxy of the rs3746266 
G allele; r² = 0.7) was associated with lower BMI (sample 5, n = 123,865; P = 
.01) and fat mass (sample 4, n = 5338; P = .03). The strongest association with 
fat mass was observed in premenopausal women (n = 1192; P = .02).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These findings suggest that CRTC1 contributes to the 
genetics of human obesity in psychiatric patients and the general population. 
Identification of high-risk subjects could contribute to a better 
individualization of the pharmacological treatment in psychiatry.

DOI: 10.1001/jamapsychiatry.2013.187
PMID: 23925723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Proc Biol Sci. 2013 Aug 7;280(1768):20131339. doi: 10.1098/rspb.2013.1339.
Print  2013 Oct 7.

Simple life-history traits explain key effective population size ratios across 
diverse taxa.

Waples RS(1), Luikart G, Faulkner JR, Tallmon DA.

Author information:
(1)Northwest Fisheries Science Center, National Marine Fisheries Service, 
National Oceanic and Atmospheric Administration, Seattle, WA 98112, USA. 
robin.waples@noaa.gov

Effective population size (Ne) controls both the rate of random genetic drift 
and the effectiveness of selection and migration, but it is difficult to 
estimate in nature. In particular, for species with overlapping generations, it 
is easier to estimate the effective number of breeders in one reproductive cycle 
(Nb) than Ne per generation. We empirically evaluated the relationship between 
life history and ratios of Ne, Nb and adult census size (N) using a recently 
developed model (agene) and published vital rates for 63 iteroparous animals and 
plants. Nb/Ne varied a surprising sixfold across species and, contrary to 
expectations, Nb was larger than Ne in over half the species. Up to two-thirds 
of the variance in Nb/Ne and up to half the variance in Ne/N was explained by 
just two life-history traits (age at maturity and adult lifespan) that have long 
interested both ecologists and evolutionary biologists. These results provide 
novel insights into, and demonstrate a close general linkage between, 
demographic and evolutionary processes across diverse taxa. For the first time, 
our results also make it possible to interpret rapidly accumulating estimates of 
Nb in the context of the rich body of evolutionary theory based on Ne per 
generation.

DOI: 10.1098/rspb.2013.1339
PMCID: PMC3757969
PMID: 23926150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Clin Pediatr Endocrinol. 2009 Oct;18(4):101-5. doi: 10.1297/cpe.18.101. Epub
 2009 Nov 11.

Turner syndrome with ulcerative colitis.

Hyodo H(1), Tomita Y, Hirai K, Hirakawa H, Ueno S, Ishiguro H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Tokai University School of Medicine, Kanagawa, 
Japan.

Turner syndrome is a chromosomal disease frequently associated with autoimmune 
disorders including diabetes mellitus, thyroid disease and inflammatory bowel 
disease (IBD). Although the etiology of IBD has not been fully elucidated, 
genetic analysis has recently revealed several susceptibility genes. Recently, 
cases with Turner syndrome associated with IBD have been reported. We report 
here a 13-yr-old girl with Turner syndrome associated with ulcerative colitis. 
The patient was undergoing growth hormone treatment and presented with abdominal 
discomfort and bloody diarrhea. Her karyotype pattern was 46,X,i(Xq). Barium 
enema revealed punctate collections of barium suggesting microulcerations in the 
descending and sigmoid colon with loss of haustra. Flexible sigmoidoscopy showed 
that the mucosa was erythematous and friable upon touch and that the wall had 
frank hemorrhage and inflammatory polyp formation from the anal verge through 
the splenic flexure. Histologically, mucosal and submucosal inflammation was 
prominent, suggesting cryptitis and crypt abscess formation. Based on these 
findings, she was diagnosed as having ulcerative colitis, and 5-aminosalicylic 
acid, prednisolone and dietary therapy were initiated. Our observations in this 
patient suggest that X chromosome abnormality may influence the development of 
IBD and that screening for gastrointestinal disease in patients with Turner 
syndrome may help lengthen life expectancy in these patients.

DOI: 10.1297/cpe.18.101
PMCID: PMC3687612
PMID: 23926368


740. J Med Entomol. 2013 Jul;50(4):748-57. doi: 10.1603/me13015.

Gonotrophic development and survival in field populations of Musca domestica 
(Diptera: Muscidae) at dairies in California, Minnesota, and Georgia, and the 
relationship of fly age to relative abundance of (Z)-9-tricosene (muscalure).

Butler SM(1), Moon RD, Hinkle NC, Millar JG, McElfresh JS, Mullens BA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, University of California, Riverside, CA 92521, USA.

Adult female Musca domestica L. were collected in 2004 and 2005 from dairies in 
California, Minnesota, and Georgia. Relative abundance of (Z)-9-tricosene 
(muscalure) among the dominant eight hydrocarbons was determined. Fly heads then 
were removed to quantify pterin levels and estimate fly age, abdomens were 
dissected to score gonotrophic development and parity (follicular relics), and 
spermathecae were examined for sperm. Daily survival was assessed using two 
estimates of time required to become gravid: laboratory-based degree-day (DD) 
estimates and estimates based on pterin values in field-collected flies matched 
to their stages of gonotrophic development. Among newly emerged females (oocyte 
stage 1) with detectable muscalure, it comprised < approximately 1.5% of 
cuticular hydrocarbons. In muscalure-positive flies, muscalure comprised a 
higher proportion of cuticular hydrocarbons in older flies from California and 
Minnesota (6-9% when gravid) versus flies from Georgia (<2% when gravid). 
Females mated in early-intermediate stages of egg development. Life expectancy, 
using laboratory-derived estimates of time needed to become gravid, ranged from 
3.6 to 10.6 d. Using equivalent pterin-based time estimates, life expectancy 
ranged from 4.0 to 19.5 d. Mean DD ages (12 degrees C threshold) of gravid flies 
varied widely (53-95 DD) and were congruent with laboratory-based estimates 
(52-57 DD) in only 7 of 12 farm-year combinations. Thus, house flies under 
natural conditions often required more time to develop eggs than laboratory 
models would predict, extending daily survival estimates based on gonotrophic 
age by 11-74%.

DOI: 10.1603/me13015
PMID: 23926772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Vaccine. 2014 Feb 26;32(10):1205-12. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.07.066.
Epub  2013 Aug 5.

Enhancement of antigen-specific CD8 T cell responses by co-delivery of Fc-fused 
CXCL11.

Namkoong H(1), Song MY(2), Seo YB(1), Choi DH(1), Kim SW(1), Im SJ(1), Sung 
YC(3), Park Y(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Pohang University of Science and Technology, 
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea.
(2)Division of Integrative Biosciences and Biotechnology, Pohang University of 
Science and Technology, Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Life Sciences, Pohang University of Science and Technology, 
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea; Division of Integrative Biosciences and 
Biotechnology, Pohang University of Science and Technology, Pohang 790-784, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: ycsung@postech.ac.kr.
(4)Department of Life Sciences, Pohang University of Science and Technology, 
Pohang 790-784, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: yunji@postech.ac.kr.

Chemokines have been known to play an important role in eliciting adaptive 
immune responses by, selectively attracting the innate cellular components to 
the site of antigen presentation. In this study, we demonstrated that all three 
CXCR3 ligands, CXCL9, CXCL10, and CXCL11, could act as a strong, genetic 
adjuvant. Among them, CXCL11 increased vaccine antigen-specific CD8 T cells, 
including, several cytokine secretions (IFN-γ and TNF-α) to a greater degree 
than the other two CXCR3 ligands. Fc-fusion of CXCL11 (CXCL11-Fc) induced 
similar but slightly higher CD8 T cell response, which, appeared to be antigen- 
(ovalbumin (OVA) vs. human papillomavirus 16 (HPV16) E7) and vaccine, type- 
(adenovirus vs. DNA vaccine) independent. In addition, the adjuvant effect of 
CXCL11-Fc was, further confirmed by suppressing tumor growth and extension of 
survival rates in a therapeutic tumor, model, which was correlated with enhanced 
antigen-specific CD8 T cell responses. Interestingly, the, enhanced 
antigen-specific CD8 T cell responses by co-delivery of CXCL11-Fc were 
associated with CD8, T cell proliferation, followed by increased total and 
effector memory T cell frequencies. Taken together, our findings provide a novel 
role of CXCL11 as a strong genetic adjuvant which might be used to, increase 
antigen-specific CD8 T cell immunity elicited by vaccination.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2013.07.066
PMID: 23928465 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2013 Nov 1;38(23):1979-85. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0b013e3182a7902c.

Early versus late initiation of rehabilitation after lumbar spinal fusion: 
economic evaluation alongside a randomized controlled trial.

Oestergaard LG(1), Christensen FB, Nielsen CV, Bünger CE, Fruensgaard S, Sogaard 
R.

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of *Physiotherapy and Occupational Therapy Department, 
Aarhus University Hospital, Denmark †Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, Aarhus 
University Hospital, Denmark ‡Region Hospital of Silkeborg, Orthopaedic 
Department, Denmark §Section of Social Medicine and Rehabilitation, Institute of 
Public Health, Aarhus University, Denmark ¶Public Health and Quality 
Improvement, Central Denmark Region, Denmark ‖CAST-Centre for Applied Health 
Services Research, University of Southern Denmark, Denmark; and **Institute for 
Public Health, Aarhus University, Denmark.

STUDY DESIGN: Economic evaluation conducted alongside a randomized controlled 
trial with 1-year follow-up.
OBJECTIVE: To examine the cost-effectiveness of initiating rehabilitation 6 
weeks after surgery as opposed to 12 weeks after surgery.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: In a previously reported randomized controlled 
trial, we assessed the impact of timing of rehabilitation after a lumbar spinal 
fusion and found that a fast-track strategy led to poorer functional ability. 
Before making recommendations, it seems relevant to address the societal 
perspective including return to work, quality of life, and costs.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis and a cost-utility analysis were 
conducted. Eighty-two patients undergoing instrumented lumbar spinal fusion due 
to degenerative disc disease or spondylolisthesis (grade I or II) were 
randomized to an identical protocol of 4 sessions of group-based rehabilitation 
and were instructed in home exercises focusing on active stability training. 
Outcome parameters included functional disability (Oswestry Disability Index) 
and quality-adjusted life years. Health care and productivity costs were 
estimated from national registries and reported in euros. Costs and effects were 
transformed into net benefit. Bootstrapping was used to estimate 95% confidence 
intervals (95% CI).
RESULTS: The fast-track strategy tended to be costlier by €6869 (95% CI, -4640 
to 18,378) while at the same time leading to significantly poorer outcomes of 
functional disability by -9 points (95% CI, -18 to -3) and a tendency for a 
reduced gain in quality-adjusted life years by -0.04 (95% CI, -0.13 to 0.01). 
The overall probability for the fast-track strategy being cost-effective does 
not reach 10% at conventional thresholds for cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Initiating rehabilitation at 6 weeks as opposed to 12 weeks after 
surgery is on average more costly and less effective. The uncertainty of this 
result did not seem to be sensitive to methodological issues, and clinical 
managements who have already adapted fast-track rehabilitation strategies have 
reason to reconsider their choice. .

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0b013e3182a7902c
PMID: 23928716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 Nov;15(8):791-800. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0523-y.
Epub  2013 Aug 9.

The impact of memantine in combination with acetylcholinesterase inhibitors on 
admission of patients with Alzheimer's disease to nursing homes: 
cost-effectiveness analysis in France.

Touchon J(1), Lachaine J, Beauchemin C, Granghaud A, Rive B, Bineau S.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Montpellier, Montpellier, France.

The costs associated with the care of Alzheimer's disease patients are very 
high, particularly those associated with nursing home placement. The combination 
of a cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI) and memantine has been shown to 
significantly delay admission to nursing homes as compared to treatment with a 
ChEI alone. The objective of this cost-effectiveness analysis was to evaluate 
the economic impact of the concomitant use of memantine and ChEI compared to 
ChEI alone. Markov modelling was used in order to simulate transitions over time 
among three discrete health states (non-institutionalised, institutionalised and 
deceased). Transition probabilities were obtained from observational studies and 
French national statistics, utilities from a previous US survey and costs from 
French national statistics. The analysis was conducted from societal and 
healthcare system perspectives. Mean time to nursing home admission was 4.57 
years for ChEIs alone and 5.54 years for combination therapy, corresponding to 
0.98 additional years, corresponding to a gain in quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs) of 0.25. From a healthcare system perspective, overall costs were 
€98,609 for ChEIs alone and €90,268 for combination therapy, representing cost 
savings of €8,341. From a societal perspective, overall costs were €122,039 and 
€118,721, respectively, representing cost savings of €3,318. Deterministic and 
probabilistic (Monte Carlo simulations) sensitivity analyses indicated that 
combination therapy would be the dominant strategy in most scenarios. In 
conclusion, combination therapy with memantine and a ChEI is a cost-saving 
alternative compared to ChEI alone as it is associated with lower cost and 
increased QALYs from both a societal and a healthcare perspective.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0523-y
PMCID: PMC4201748
PMID: 23928827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Dis Colon Rectum. 2013 Sep;56(9):e381. doi: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e31829b2d4d.

The management of patients with T1 adenocarcinoma of the low rectum: are you 
certain?

Lee L, Feldman LS.

Comment on
    Dis Colon Rectum. 2013 Apr;56(4):400-7.

DOI: 10.1097/DCR.0b013e31829b2d4d
PMID: 23929023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;1048:19-29. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-556-9_3.

Analysis of biomarkers of caloric restriction in aging cells.

Li Y(1), Tollefsbol TO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, AL, 
USA.

Caloric restriction (CR) has been extensively documented for its profound role 
in effectively extending maximum lifespan in many different species. However, 
the accurate mechanisms, especially at the cellular level, for CR-induced aging 
delay are still under intense investigation. An emerging technique, recently 
explored in our laboratory, provides precisely controllable caloric intake in a 
cultured cellular system that allows real-time observation and quantitative 
analysis of the impact of CR on the molecular cellular level during the aging 
processes. This in vitro method allows investigation of the molecular mechanisms 
pertaining to how CR influences aging processes leading to life extension in 
human cellular systems. It will provide important clinical implications for 
future preventive approaches for aging and aging-related degeneration diseases 
in humans. Hence, we will discuss the detailed procedures of this novel 
technique as well as the analysis of relevant aging biomarkers and its broad 
application in the field.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-556-9_3
PMCID: PMC3875466
PMID: 23929095 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;1048:49-63. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-556-9_5.

Studying the replicative life span of yeast cells.

Sinclair DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Paul F. Glenn Laboratories for the Molecular Biology of Aging, Harvard 
Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.

The budding yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae is a useful model for elucidating the 
pathways that control life span and the influence of environmental factors, such 
as calorie restriction (CR). For 75 years, CR has been studied for its ability 
to delay diseases of aging in mammals, from cancer to cardiovascular disease 
(McCay et al., Nutr Rev 33:241-243, 1975). In many other species, reducing 
calorie intake extends life span, including unicellular organisms (Jiang et al., 
FASEB J 14:2135-2137, 2000; Lin et al., Science 289:2126-2128, 2000), 
invertebrates (Rogina and Helfand, Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A 101:15998-16003, 
2004), and rodents (Martín-Montalvo et al., Oncogene 30:505-520, 2011). Here we 
describe how to calorically restrict yeast cells, the methods used to determine 
the replicative life span (RLS) of budding yeast cells, how to selectively kill 
daughter cells using the mother enrichment program (MEP), how to measure 
recombination frequency at the rDNA locus, how to isolate large quantities of 
old cells, and how to analyze the circular forms of DNA known as 
extrachromosomal rDNA circles (ERCs), a cause of aging in S. cerevisiae (Petes, 
Cell 19:765-774, 1980; Sinclair and Guarente, Cell 91:1033-1042, 1997; Defossez 
et al., Mol Cell 3:447-455, 1999).

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-556-9_5
PMCID: PMC4775250
PMID: 23929097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;1048:65-75. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-556-9_6.

Methods for creating mutations in C. elegans that extend lifespan.

Wang D(1), Cao M, Dinh J, Dong Y.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Developmental Genes and Human Diseases in Ministry of 
Education, Medical School of Southeast University, Nanjing, People's Republic of 
China.

The principle of commonly used methods to create mutations in the nematode 
Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) is straightforward. In general, worms are 
exposed to a dose of mutagen resulting in DNA damages and mutations. Screening 
the progeny of the mutagenized animals for a certain phenotype is the regular 
forward genetic approach in C. elegans. A mutant selected from such a population 
is stabilized to recover a pure homozygous strain. In this chapter, we 
categorize the protocol into mutagenesis, phenotype screen, and outcross and 
provide time-tested procedures for their implementation to create long-lived 
worm mutants.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-556-9_6
PMID: 23929098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;1048:215-28. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-556-9_16.

Detecting polymorphisms in human longevity studies: HLA typing and SNP 
genotyping by amplicon sequencing.

Vargas-Alarcón G(1), Flores-Domínguez C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Instituto Nacional de Cardiologia Ignacio 
Chavez, Mexico City, Mexico.

Life expectancy has always been associated to several determinants, such as 
environmental and genetic factors. Studies have related human lifespan as being 
25-32 % due to genetic polymorphisms between individuals associated to longevity 
and aging. Nonetheless, no single gene will convey a phenotype like longevity. 
Aging is a process that occurs from changes in various levels of the cell, from 
genes to functions. Longevity is the ability to cope and repair the damage that 
results from these changes. It has been described as the result of an optimal 
performance of immune system and as an overexpression of anti-inflammatory 
sequence variants of immune/inflammatory genes.Longevity gene candidates can be 
separated into the following categories: inflammatory and immune-related, stress 
response elements, mediators of glucose and lipid metabolism, DNA repair 
components and cellular proliferation, and DNA haplogroups.Studies have related 
lifespan with Common Single-Nucleotide Polymorphisms (SNPs); polygenic effects 
can explain an important part of how genetics influence it. In this chapter we 
describe how to sequence Class I HLA allele polymorphism, as well as SNP 
sequencing, two methodologies most frequently used in polymorphism detection.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-556-9_16
PMID: 23929108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Adv Ther. 2013 Jul;30(7):697-712. doi: 10.1007/s12325-013-0046-z. Epub 2013
Aug  9.

C-QUALITY: cost and quality-of-life pharmacoeconomic analysis of antidepressants 
in major depressive disorder in Italy.

Mencacci C(1), Aguglia E, Biggio G, Cappellari L, Di Sciascio G, Fagiolini A, 
Maina G, Tortorella A, Katz P, Ripellino C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health, Fatebenefratelli Hospital, Milan, Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Major depressive disorder (MDD) is a common and disabling 
condition across the world. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and 
serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) are the most commonly used 
antidepressants. The objective of this study was to assess the 
cost-effectiveness [€ per quality-adjusted life year (QALY)] of all SSRIs and 
all SNRIs for the treatment of MDD in Italy.
METHODS: A decision analytic model was adapted from the Swedish Dental and 
Pharmaceutical Benefits agency model to reflect current clinical practice in the 
treatment of MDD in the largest Italian regions. This adaptation was possible 
thanks to the collaboration of an expert panel of Italian psychiatrists and 
health economists. The model evaluated patients with a first diagnosis of MDD 
and initiating an SSRI or an SNRI for the first time. The time horizon was 12 
months. Efficacy and utility data for the model were retrieved from the 
literature and validated by the expert panel. Local data were considered for 
resource utilization and for treatment costs based on each regional health 
service perspective. Population-weighted regional data were used to define a 
national model. Scenario simulations, one-way sensitivity analyses, and Monte 
Carlo simulations were performed to test the robustness of the model.
RESULTS: The base case analysis showed that escitalopram was associated with a 
lower total cost (€ 1,562) and a larger health gain (QALYs) at 1 year (0.732) 
per patient and dominated the other treatment strategies since more QALYs were 
achieved at a lower total cost. Sensitivity analyses support the robustness of 
the model.
CONCLUSION: The results indicate that escitalopram is the most cost-effective 
pharmacological treatment strategy for the Italian health service compared with 
other SSRIs and all SNRIs used in the first-line treatment of MDD.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-013-0046-z
PMID: 23929174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Z Rheumatol. 2013 Sep;72(7):653-60, 662. doi: 10.1007/s00393-013-1162-5.

[Common variable immunodeficiency: a clinical challenge].

[Article in German]

Warnatz K(1), Goldacker S.

Author information:
(1)Centrum für Chronische Immundefizienz, Breisacher Str. 117, 79106, Freiburg 
im Breisgau, Deutschland. klaus.warnatz@uniklinik-freiburg.de

Common variable immunodeficiency (CVID) represents the most common clinically 
relevant form of primary immunodeficiency. This heterogeneous antibody 
deficiency syndrome is characterized not only by susceptibility to bacterial 
respiratory tract infections but displays additional signs of immune 
dysregulation, such as autoimmunity, chronic inflammation and 
lymphoproliferation in more than 30 % of the patients. Due to poor awareness the 
diagnosis is often delayed by 4-6 years. A close collaboration in patient care 
with a center specialized in primary immunodeficiency is recommended. Regular 
follow-up visits include assessment of adequate immunoglobulin replacement 
therapy and screening for manifestation of secondary complications. Regular 
substitution with intravenous or subcutaneous immunoglobulins has more or less 
normalized life expectancy of patients with isolated susceptibility to bacterial 
infections. Therefore, the current core task in the management of CVID patients 
is the elaboration of more effective and safer forms of prophylaxis and 
treatment of sequelae of immune dysregulation in the lungs, intestines and liver 
of affected patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00393-013-1162-5
PMID: 23929240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. J Neurol Surg A Cent Eur Neurosurg. 2014 Mar;75(2):126-32. doi: 
10.1055/s-0033-1349340. Epub 2013 Aug 8.

Open thoracic cordotomy as a treatment option for severe, debilitating pain.

Tomycz L(1), Forbes J(1), Ladner T(1), Kahn E(1), Maris A(1), Neimat J(1), 
Konrad P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
Tennessee, United States.

OBJECTIVE: The treatment of patients with debilitating lower extremity or 
medically refractory quadrant pain presents a challenge for management. 
Contemporary neuromodulatory therapies may not be affordable or practical, 
especially in patients with limited life expectancy or from countries with 
limited resources. We present a small retrospective series to evaluate the role 
of open thoracic cordotomy as a practice option in the treatment of patients 
with severe, unilateral, medically refractory pain of the lower abdominal 
quadrant, hip, or leg. Technical aspects of the procedure, anatomic pathways 
within the spinal cord, and intraoperative maneuvers are described.
METHODS: The medical records of 9 patients (7 men, 2 women; median age, 57 
years) treated between 1998 and 2010 were reviewed. Each patient underwent open 
thoracic cordotomy after 1998 for severe lower quadrant or lower extremity pain 
refractory to multiple other treatment modalities. The indications for surgery 
included cancer-related pain (4 of 9), postherpetic neuralgia (2 of 9), 
post-spinal cord injury pain (2 of 9), and multiple sclerosis (1 of 9).
RESULTS: Six of nine patients reported improvement in their postoperative level 
of pain after a median follow-up of 31 weeks. Complications included ipsilateral 
lower extremity weakness, urinary incontinence, and the development of new 
postcordotomy pain. A higher incidence of complications, including ipsilateral 
motor weakness, was observed in this series than with previous reports of 
percutaneous cervical cordotomy (PCC).
CONCLUSIONS: Although open thoracic cordotomy may be cautiously recommended as a 
treatment option in certain settings, this procedure should be viewed only as a 
second-line treatment option in settings where the technology and expertise to 
perform PCC are available.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1349340
PMID: 23929410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2013 Nov;17(5):872-4. doi: 
10.1093/icvts/ivt350. Epub 2013 Aug 8.

Inferior vena caval and right atrial thrombus complicating amoebic liver 
abscess.

Siddiqui M(1), Gupta A, Kazmi A, Chandra D, Grover V, Gupta V.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiothoracic and Vascular Surgery, Postgraduate Institute of 
Medical Education and Research and Dr RML Hospital, New Delhi, India.

We present the result of right atrial thrombectomy in a paediatric patient 
suffering from a right atrial thrombus due to amoebic liver abscess under total 
circulatory arrest. A 2-year old boy with amoebic liver abscess complicated by 
inferior vena cava (IVC) thrombus extending up to the right atrium (RA) was 
operated on in our institute. During the surgery, the thrombus was removed from 
the IVC and the RA under deep hypothermic circulatory arrest. After chest 
closure, open drainage of the abscess was performed. Metronidazole was given 
postoperatively for 2 weeks. The postoperative period was uneventful. There was 
rapid convalescence with complete resolution of the abscess. Anticoagulation 
with warfarin was started on the day following surgery and continued for 6 
weeks. There was no recurrence of thrombosis or embolic events in the follow-up 
period. Extension of thrombus into the right atrium mandates an aggressive 
surgical approach which may prove life saving. It is crucial in the prevention 
of pulmonary embolism or Budd-Chiari syndrome, which may have an overall poor 
outcome.

DOI: 10.1093/icvts/ivt350
PMCID: PMC3805218
PMID: 23929899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. Care Manag J. 2013;14(2):125-44. doi: 10.1891/1521-0987.14.2.125.

NYC Department for the Aging Annual Plan Summary: April 1, 2013-March 31, 2014.

NYC Department for the Aging.

Collaborators: Saunders C, Penny L, Chin J, Di J.

DOI: 10.1891/1521-0987.14.2.125
PMID: 23930519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Comput Biol Med. 2013 Sep;43(9):1167-70. doi:
10.1016/j.compbiomed.2013.05.021.  Epub 2013 Jun 3.

Evaluation of an artificial neural network to ascertain why there is a high 
incidence of hepatitis B in the Chinese population after vaccination.

Hongfei W(1), Yunyan Z, Fei Y, Hui L.

Author information:
(1)Library of Dalian Medical University, China.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of the study was to understand why there is a high 
incidence of hepatitis B, including acute and chronic infections, after 
vaccination.
METHODS: All data were obtained from the published information. The incidence of 
hepatitis B, life expectancy, and positive rates of hepatitis B surface antigen 
(HBsAg) and the antibody to HBsAg (anti-HBs) in a specific observation year was 
depicted. The relationships between the HBsAg-positive rate, anti-HBs-positive 
rate, life expectancy and incidence of hepatitis B were assessed by Pearson's 
correlation. The quantitative effects of HBsAg-positive rate, anti-HBs-positive 
rate and life expectancy on hepatitis B incidence were assessed by SPSS 18.0 
software with a neural network.
RESULTS: There was no correlation between hepatitis B incidence and the rates of 
HBsAg or anti-HBs (r=-0.334 for HBsAg, r=0.247 for anti-HBs, p>0.05 for both 
indicators). A clear correlation was observed between incidence and life 
expectancy (r=0.841, p<0.05). The standardized percentage of affect of life 
expectancy on hepatitis B incidence (100%) was much higher than that of either 
the rates of HBsAg (59.0%) or anti-HBs (45.7%).
CONCLUSION: An increase in life expectancy and an improved quality of life may 
be associated with a higher incidence of hepatitis B. Because hepatitis B is 
caused by the host immune response, a stronger immune response in individuals 
with an improved quality of life could contribute to that higher incidence.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compbiomed.2013.05.021
PMID: 23930809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Climacteric. 2013 Oct;16(5):522-35. doi: 10.3109/13697137.2013.823539. Epub
2013  Aug 9.

Oncology in midlife and beyond.

Gompel A(1), Baber RJ, de Villiers TJ, Huang KE, Santen RJ, Shah D, Villaseca P, 
Shapiro S.

Author information:
(1)* Unité de Gynécologie Endocrinienne, Université Paris Descartes, 
Port-Royal/Cochin (APHP) , Paris , France.

The onset of the menopause is often a time when women's concerns can act as a 
powerful trigger to encourage healthy modifications in lifestyle which will 
maintain, or improve, their general health. This document aims to help women to 
understand their potential risks, to encourage them to find proactive preventive 
strategies by modifying some of their attitudes, and to use health resources 
(when available) to be screened. Cancer is an important cause of death but not 
the primary cause of mortality. Cardio/circulatory diseases represent 35-40% of 
causes of death in most developed countries and 20-25% of women will die from 
cancers in Western Europe, Australasia, high-income North America, high-income 
Asia Pacific, East Asia and Southern Latin America. Breast cancer, lung cancer 
and colorectal cancer are prevalent in most regions of the world. Cervical 
cancer remains a hallmark of low access to health care. Preventive strategies 
(decreasing smoking and alcohol consumption, losing weight, eating a healthy 
diet and undertaking physical activity) and implementation of screening could 
help to significantly decrease the incidence of and mortality from cancer. The 
mortality/incidence ratio is higher in developing countries compared to 
high-income regions as well as in subgroups of populations in developed 
countries with lower socioeconomic levels. Implementation of better diagnostic 
methods and management of cancer according to the local resources will help to 
decrease the mortality rate in developing countries, and effort has to be made 
to decrease social inequities and improve access to health care for low-income 
groups. In conclusion, cancer incidence is increasing as a consequence of longer 
life expectancy all over the world. National health programs are mandatory to 
implement screening and to improve individual management. Finally, educating 
women so that they are aware of ways to improve their general health, to 
minimize their own risk factors and to identify signs of change in their own 
health which may be markers of impending cancer will help to reduce the burden 
of disease and improve the prognosis for tumors detected at an earlier stage.

DOI: 10.3109/13697137.2013.823539
PMID: 23931571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Rejuvenation Res. 2014 Apr;17(2):105-15. doi: 10.1089/rej.2013.1479. Epub
2014  Apr 8.

What reassurances do the community need regarding life extension? Evidence from 
studies of community attitudes and an analysis of film portrayals.

Underwood M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Science, The University of Queensland , Brisbane, Australia 
.

It is increasingly recognized that community attitudes impact on the research 
trajectory, entry, and reception of new biotechnologies. Yet biogerontologists 
have generally been dismissive of public concerns about life extension. There is 
some evidence that biogerontological research agendas have not been communicated 
effectively, with studies finding that most community members have little or no 
knowledge of life extension research. In the absence of knowledge, community 
members' attitudes may well be shaped by issues raised in popular portrayals of 
life extension (e.g., in movies). To investigate how popular portrayals of life 
extension may influence community attitudes, I conducted an analysis of 19 films 
depicting human life extension across different genres. I focussed on how the 
pursuit of life extension was depicted, how life extension was achieved, the 
levels of interest in life extension shown by characters in the films, and the 
experiences of extended life depicted both at an individual and societal level. 
This paper compares the results of this analysis with the literature on 
community attitudes to life extension and makes recommendations about the issues 
in which the public may require reassurance if they are to support and accept 
life extension technologies.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2013.1479
PMID: 23931761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Handb Clin Neurol. 2013;115:957-67. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-444-52902-2.00054-0.

Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2): diagnosis and management.

Lloyd SK(1), Evans DG.

Author information:
(1)Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, and Department of 
Otolaryngology, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Central Manchester 
NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester Royal Infirmary, Manchester, UK.

Neurofibromatosis type 2 (NF2) is an autosomal dominant inherited tumor 
predisposition syndrome caused by mutations in the NF2 gene on chromosome 22. 
Affected individuals develop schwannomas typically involving both vestibular 
nerves leading to hearing loss and eventual deafness. Rehabilitation with 
brainstem implants and in some cases cochlear implants is improving this 
outcome. Schwannomas also occur on other cranial nerves, on spinal nerve roots 
and peripheral nerves, and intracutaneously as plaques. Cranial and spinal 
meningiomas and spinal ependymomas are other common tumors. Fifty to sixty 
percent of patients represent de novo mutations and as many as 33% of these are 
mosaic for the underlying disease causing mutation. Truncating mutations 
(nonsense, frameshift insertions/deletions) are the most frequent germline 
events and cause the most severe disease, whilst single and multiple exon 
deletions are common and are usually associated with milder NF2. Neurological 
deficits are a major feature of the condition and neurologists have a pivotal 
role in assigning symptoms to lesions and in managing neuropathies. NF2 
represents a difficult management problem with most patients facing substantial 
morbidity and reduced life expectancy. Surgery remains the focus of current 
management although watchful waiting and occasionally radiation treatment have a 
role. We are seeing the advent of tailored drug therapies aimed at the genetic 
level and these are likely to provide huge improvements for this devastating, 
life-limiting condition.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-444-52902-2.00054-0
PMID: 23931824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Oct;94:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.06.009. Epub
2013  Jun 25.

Educational differences in disability-free life expectancy: a comparative study 
of long-standing activity limitation in eight European countries.

Mäki N(1), Martikainen P, Eikemo T, Menvielle G, Lundberg O, Ostergren O, 
Jasilionis D, Mackenbach JP; EURO-GBD-SE consortium.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Research, P.O. Box 18, FIN-00014, University of 
Helsinki, Finland. netta.maki@helsinki.fi

Healthy life expectancy is a composite measure of length and quality of life and 
an important indicator of health in aging populations. There are few 
cross-country comparisons of socioeconomic differences in healthy life 
