Pathumthani, Thailand. lampuko@yahoo.com

BACKGROUND: Evolution of medical technologies extent human life expectancy. The 
United Nations found Thai elderly population were increased rapidly compared 
with other developing countries. Global estimations of the burden of disease 
show that mental illness plays a prominent role. Elderly club is one of the 
several ways to promote social interaction, gain self esteem, slow progression 
of physical and mental disabilities in old age people. However, the activities 
which certainly proper for each elderly group remains unclear because various 
demographic data background of elderly in each area.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the mental health status, including depression and 
quality of life among members of the Thammasat hospital elderly club which 
covers elderly members in northen Bangkok, Pathumthani and Ayutthaya province.
MATERIAL AND METHOD: A cross-sectional descriptive study was conducted. Seventy 
members were sampled for interview from 207 members. The assessment tools were 
Thai Mental Health Indicator (TMHI-54), Thai Geriatric Depression Scale (TGDS), 
Stress self assessment questionnaire, and World Health Organization Quality of 
Life-Brief-Thai Version (WHOQOL-BREF-THAI).
RESULTS: The majority of the sample was females (78.6%). The age ranged from 60 
to 84 years old (mean 70.24). The prevalences of psychological problems were; 
poor mental health (12.90%), depression (5.7%) and stress (15.2%). The sample 
reported poorer quality of life on 3 sub-domains of WHOQOL; physical (2.9%), 
psychological (1.4%) and social relationship (4.30%) domains. The level of 
depression, reported by those who had not enough income, was significantly 
higher than those who had enough income (p = 0.022). Quality of life (physical 
and social relationship domain) among those aged younger than 70 years, was 
better than that among those aged 70 or older (p = 0.024 and p = 0.023 
respectively). Quality of life (psychological domain) among those who had not 
enough income, was significantly poorer than those with enough income (p = 
0.020). Quality of life in term of social relationship was better among those 
living in urban areas (p = 0.037) or having better education (p = 0.014). 
Regular or irregular club's activity attending was not related with mental 
status and quality of life.
CONCLUSION: The majority of the sample had equal or better mental health status 
and quality of life compared with the general population. The prevalence of 
depression was slightly lower than other Thai studies.

PMID: 23964450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Expert Rev Respir Med. 2013 Aug;7(4):385-96. doi:
10.1586/17476348.2013.814411.

The future of antimicrobial therapy in the era of antibiotic resistance in 
cystic fibrosis pulmonary infection.

McCaughey G(1), Gilpin D, Elborn J, Tunney MM.

Author information:
(1)CF and Airways Microbiology Research Group, Queens University Belfast, 
Belfast, UK.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is characterised by chronic polymicrobial airway infection 
and inflammation, which is the major cause of morbidity and mortality. 
Aggressive use of antimicrobials has been fundamental in increasing the life 
expectancy of CF patients in recent years. However, enhanced culture and 
non-culture based detection methods have identified bacteria in the CF lung not 
previously isolated from CF patients by routine diagnostic microbiology Coupled 
with increasing antimicrobial resistance, the future of antimicrobial therapy in 
CF respiratory infection remains challenging. New strategies are needed to 
address these problems and ensure improvements in life expectancy are 
maintained. Potential future strategies include the use of new antimicrobial 
agents and formulations currently in clinical trials, alternative methods of 
selecting appropriate therapeutic regimens, determination of the pathogenicity 
of species newly associated with CF and the development of new antimicrobials 
and adjuvants for use in clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1586/17476348.2013.814411
PMID: 23964628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Rozhl Chir. 2013 Apr;92(4):205-8.

[Combined procedure of pulmonary resection and radiofrequency ablation of lung 
tumours - case reports].

[Article in Czech]

Simánek V(1), Klecka J, Treska V, Pesek M, Bednárová V.

Author information:
(1)Chirurgická klinika FN Plzen. simanek@fnplzen.cz

The authors present two case reports to describe the possibility of performing a 
combined procedure when dealing with lung cancer in patients who are not 
indicated for radical surgery. The combination of pulmonary resection and 
radiofrequency ablation thus opens a new possibility for a quality extension of 
active life.

PMID: 23965007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. FEMS Yeast Res. 2014 Feb;14(1):33-9. doi: 10.1111/1567-1364.12070. Epub 2013
Sep  9.

Reactive oxygen species, ageing and the hormesis police.

Ludovico P(1), Burhans WC.

Author information:
(1)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Health 
Sciences, University of Minho, Braga, Portugal; ICVS/3B's - PT Government 
Associate Laboratory, Braga/Guimarães, Portugal.

For more than 50 years, the free radical theory served as the paradigm guiding 
most investigations of ageing. However, recent studies in a variety of organisms 
have identified conceptual and practical limitations to this theory. Some of 
these limitations are related to the recent discovery that caloric restriction 
and other experimental manipulations promote longevity by inducing hormesis 
effects in association with increased reactive oxygen species (ROS). The 
beneficial role of ROS in lifespan extension is consistent with the essential 
role of these molecules in cell signalling. However, the identity of specific 
forms of ROS that promote longevity remains unclear. In this article, we argue 
that in several model systems, hydrogen peroxide plays a crucial role in the 
induction of hormesis.

© 2013 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/1567-1364.12070
PMCID: PMC4332618
PMID: 23965186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors have no conflict of interest to declare.


858. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2013 Aug 21;95(16):1441-9. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.L.00373.

A cost-utility analysis comparing the cost-effectiveness of simultaneous and 
staged bilateral total knee arthroplasty.

Odum SM(1), Troyer JL, Kelly MP, Dedini RD, Bozic KJ.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina at Charlotte and OrthoCarolina Research 
Institute, Charlotte, North Carolina, USA. Susan.Odum@orthocarolina.com

Comment in
    J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2013 Aug 21;95(16):e119(1-2).
    Acta Orthop. 2016 Jun;87(3):286-90.

BACKGROUND: The safety and efficacy of simultaneous or staged bilateral total 
knee arthroplasty have long been debated among orthopaedic surgeons. Advocates 
for simultaneous bilateral total knee arthroplasty posit that the benefits of 
decreased costs and recovery time, with no difference in functional outcomes, 
outweigh the economic costs of potential complications. The purpose of the study 
was to conduct a cost-utility analysis comparing simultaneous bilateral total 
knee arthroplasty with staged bilateral total knee arthroplasty.
METHODS: A Markov model was designed to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
simultaneous bilateral total knee arthroplasty with that of staged bilateral 
total knee arthroplasty. Nationwide Inpatient Sample data sets from 2004 to 2007 
were used to identify 24,574 simultaneous and 382,496 unilateral procedures. On 
the basis of the codes of the International Classification of Diseases, Ninth 
Revision, Clinical Modification, perioperative complications were categorized as 
minor, major, and mortality, and respective probability values were calculated. 
Nationwide Inpatient Sample data were used to determine hospital costs 
conditional on procedure type and complications. Rehabilitation costs, 
anesthesia costs, and heath utilities were estimated from the literature. To 
minimize selection bias, propensity score matching was used to match the groups 
on comorbid conditions, socioeconomic variables, and hospital characteristics.
RESULTS: Using the matched sample, all complication rates were higher for the 
staged group. The estimated mean cost (in 2012 U.S. dollars) was $43,401 for 
simultaneous bilateral total knee arthroplasty compared with $72,233 for staged 
bilateral total knee arthroplasty. The quality-adjusted life years gained were 
9.31 for simultaneous bilateral total knee arthroplasty and 9.29 for staged 
bilateral total knee arthroplasty. On the basis of these matched results, 
simultaneous bilateral total knee arthroplasty dominated staged bilateral total 
knee arthroplasty with lower costs and better outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: On the basis of this analysis, simultaneous bilateral total knee 
arthroplasty is more cost-effective than staged bilateral total knee 
arthroplasty, with lower costs and better outcomes for the average patient. 
These data can inform shared medical decision-making when bilateral total knee 
arthroplasty is indicated.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.L.00373
PMID: 23965693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2013 Aug 21;95(16):1473-80. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.L.01488.

The direct and indirect costs to society of treatment for end-stage knee 
osteoarthritis.

Ruiz D Jr(1), Koenig L, Dall TM, Gallo P, Narzikul A, Parvizi J, Tongue J.

Author information:
(1)KNG Health Consulting, 1445 Research Boulevard, Suite 320, Rockville, MD 
20850, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although total knee arthroplasty for end-stage osteoarthritis is a 
cost-effective procedure, payers are focusing on its indications and cost 
because of its high and growing use. Improvements in pain and physical function 
from total knee arthroplasty could yield benefits in the form of increased work 
life and lower disability payments. The purpose of this study was to estimate 
the value of total knee arthroplasty from a societal perspective, including the 
costs and benefits to patients, employers, and payers.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to estimate the value of total knee 
arthroplasty for patients with end-stage osteoarthritis of the knee by comparing 
direct and indirect costs between surgical and nonsurgical treatment scenarios. 
Direct costs included all medical costs for surgical and nonsurgical treatment 
of osteoarthritis of the knee. Indirect costs were related to lost wages due to 
an inability to work, lower earnings, or receipt of disability payments. Direct 
and indirect costs and quality-of-life measures were incorporated into the 
Markov model to estimate the impact of total knee arthroplasty on costs over 
patients' lifetimes and quality-adjusted life years. The assumptions used in the 
model were developed with use of claims and survey data as well as clinical 
expert opinion and the peer-reviewed literature.
RESULTS: Compared with nonsurgical treatment, total knee arthroplasty increased 
lifetime direct costs by a mean of $20,635 (net present value in 2009 U.S. 
dollars). These costs were offset by societal savings of $39,565 from reduced 
indirect costs, resulting in a lifetime societal net benefit from total knee 
arthroplasty of $18,930 per patient. Eighty-five percent of these savings 
originated from increased employment and earnings, with the remaining 15% from 
fewer missed workdays and lower disability payments.
CONCLUSIONS: The estimated lifetime societal savings from the more than 600,000 
total knee arthroplasties performed in the U.S. in 2009 were estimated to be 
approximately $12 billion. These societal savings primarily accrued to patients 
and employers. The study demonstrates the importance of a societal perspective 
when considering the costs and benefits of total knee arthroplasty and policies 
that will affect access to this procedure.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.L.01488
PMID: 23965697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2013 Aug 21;95(16):1505-12. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.K.01279.

Outcome of surgical reconstruction after traumatic total brachial plexus palsy.

Dodakundi C(1), Doi K, Hattori Y, Sakamoto S, Fujihara Y, Takagi T, Fukuda M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Ogori Daiichi General Hospital, 862-3 
Shimogo-Ogori, Yamaguchi 754-0002, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Double free muscle transfer for the treatment of traumatic total 
brachial plexus injury provides useful prehensile function. We studied the 
outcome of this muscle transfer procedure, including the changes in disability 
and quality-of-life scores.
METHODS: Thirty-six patients with traumatic total brachial plexus injury who 
underwent double free muscle transfer for reconstruction from 2002 to 2008 and 
had a minimum follow-up of twenty-four months after the second free muscle 
transfer were studied. All were evaluated preoperatively and postoperatively 
with use of the Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand (DASH) and Short 
Form-36 (SF-36) questionnaires. A separate questionnaire was used to determine 
job status, pain, use of the reconstructed hand, and satisfaction with the 
procedure.
RESULTS: The mean patient age was twenty-nine years (range, sixteen to 
forty-nine years), and the mean duration of follow-up was thirty-six months 
(range, twenty-four to seventy-nine months). The mean active range of motion was 
23° (range, 0° to 80°) for shoulder flexion, 31° (range, 0° to 90°) for shoulder 
abduction, -18° (range, -80° to 40°) for shoulder external rotation, 62° (range, 
0° to 130°) for the shoulder rotation arc, 119° (range, 90° to 150°) for elbow 
flexion, and -33° (range, -60° to -20°) for elbow extension. The power of elbow 
flexion was M4 in twenty-five patients and M3 in eleven. Twenty-three patients 
had triceps nerve reconstruction; extension was M0 in two of these patients, M1 
in seven, M2 in ten, and M3 in four. Total active motion of the fingers was 46° 
(range, 0° to 98°), with a mean hook grip strength of 4 kg (range, 0 to 12 kg). 
Wilcoxon tests revealed significant improvements in the DASH score and the SF-36 
physical functioning, role physical, and physical component summary scores. The 
majority of patients worked but had changed their type of work, used the 
reconstructed hand in activities of daily living that required both hands, and 
were satisfied with the procedure.
CONCLUSIONS: Double free muscle transfer yielded satisfactory function and 
allowed use of the reconstructed hand in activities that required both hands. 
The improvement in the DASH score was greater than that in the SF-36 score.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.K.01279
PMID: 23965701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Braz J Phys Ther. 2013 May-Jun;17(3):297-306. doi: 
10.1590/s1413-35552012005000094.

Functional and cognitive changes in community-dwelling elderly: longitudinal 
study.

Figueiredo CS, Assis MG, Silva SL, Dias RC, Mancini MC.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between aging and increased life expectancy in the 
overall population likely contributes to a higher frequency rate and incidence 
of illnesses and functional disabilities. Physical dependence and cognitive 
impairment might hinder the performance of activities and result in an overload 
of care duties for the patient's family and the healthcare system.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare the functional and cognitive 
changes exhibited by the elderly over a 6-month period.
METHOD: This longitudinal and observational study was conducted in a sample of 
167 elderly people, who were selected from the database of the Network of 
Studies on Frailty in Brazilian Elderly, Universidade Federal de Minas Gerais - 
UFMG. The participants submitted to the Mini Mental State Examination (MMSE), 
Katz Index, Lawton and Brody's scale and responded to items on Advanced 
Activities of Daily Living (AADLs). We analyzed the data using multivariate 
regression models.
RESULTS: The participants' functional capacity exhibited reduced performance of 
specific instrumental activities of daily living (IADLs), p=0.002, and basic 
activities of daily living (BADLs), p=0.038. Living alone (odds ratio (OR), 
2.53; 95% confidence interval (CI), 1.09-5.87) and work status (OR, 2.52; 95% 
CI, 1.18-5.41) were associated with changes in the IADLs. The scores in the AADL 
scale (p=0.163) and MMSE (p=0.059) did not exhibit any significant difference 
during the study period. The participants with better cognitive function were 
more independent in their performance of AADLs and IADLs.
CONCLUSION: The results depict specific patterns of loss and stability of 
functional capacity in community-dwelling elderly.

DOI: 10.1590/s1413-35552012005000094
PMID: 23966147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. J Sport Exerc Psychol. 2013 Aug;35(4):339-57. doi: 10.1123/jsep.35.4.339.

The tale of hearts and reason: the influence of mood on decision making.

Laborde S(1), Raab M.

Author information:
(1)UFR STAPS, EA 4260, University of Caen, France.

In decision-making research, one important aspect of real-life decisions has so 
far been neglected: the mood of the decision maker when generating options. The 
authors tested the use of the take-the-first (TTF) heuristic and extended the 
TTF model to understand how mood influences the option-generation process of 
individuals in two studies, the first using a between-subjects design (30 
nonexperts, 30 near-experts, and 30 experts) and the second conceptually 
replicating the first using a within-subject design (30 nonexperts). 
Participants took part in an experimental option-generation task, with 31 
three-dimensional videos of choices in team handball. Three moods were elicited: 
positive, neutral, and negative. The findings (a) replicate previous results 
concerning TTF and (b) show that the option-generation process was associated 
with the physiological component of mood, supporting the neurovisceral 
integration model. The extension of TTF to processing emotional factors is an 
important step forward in explaining fast choices in real-life situations.

DOI: 10.1123/jsep.35.4.339
PMID: 23966445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Front Genet. 2013 Aug 7;4:144. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2013.00144. eCollection
2013.

Effect on lifespan of high yield non-myeloablating transplantation of bone 
marrow from young to old mice.

Kovina MV(1), Zuev VA, Kagarlitskiy GO, Khodarovich YM.

Author information:
(1)A.N. Bach Institute of Biochemistry Moscow, Russia.

Tissue renewal is a well-known phenomenon by which old and dying-off cells of 
various tissues of the body are replaced by progeny of local or circulating stem 
cells (SCs). An interesting question is whether donor SCs are capable to prolong 
the lifespan of an aging organism by tissue renewal. In this work, we 
investigated the possible use of bone marrow (BM) SC for lifespan extension. To 
this purpose, chimeric C57BL/6 mice were created by transplanting BM from young 
1.5-month-old donors to 21.5-month-old recipients. Transplantation was carried 
out by means of a recently developed method which allowed to transplant without 
myeloablation up to 1.5 × 10(8) cells, that is, about 25% of the total BM cells 
of the mouse. As a result, the mean survival time, counting from the age of 21.5 
months, the start of the experiment, was +3.6 and +5.0 (±0.1) months for the 
control and experimental groups, respectively, corresponding to a 39 ± 4% 
increase in the experimental group over the control. In earlier studies on BM 
transplantation, a considerably smaller quantity of donor cells (5 × 10(6)) was 
used, about 1% of the total own BM cells. The recipients before transplantation 
were exposed to a lethal (for control animals) X-ray dose which eliminated the 
possibility of studying the lifespan extension by this method.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2013.00144
PMCID: PMC3736046
PMID: 23967009


864. Front Genet. 2013 Aug 14;4:159. doi: 10.3389/fgene.2013.00159. eCollection
2013.

Sarcopenia and piscines: the case for indeterminate-growing fish as unique 
genetic model organisms in aging and longevity research.

Froehlich JM(1), Fowler ZG, Galt NJ, Smith DL Jr, Biga PR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, University of Alabama at Birmingham Birmingham, AL, 
USA.

Sarcopenia and dynapenia pose significant problems for the aged, especially as 
life expectancy rises in developed countries. Current therapies are marginally 
efficacious at best, and barriers to breakthroughs in treatment may result from 
currently employed model organisms. Here, we argue that the use of 
indeterminate-growing teleost fish in skeletal muscle aging research may lead to 
therapeutic advancements not possible with current mammalian models. Evidence 
from a comparative approach utilizing the subfamily Danioninae suggests that the 
indeterminate growth paradigm of many teleosts arises from adult muscle stem 
cells with greater proliferative capacity, even in spite of smaller progenitor 
populations. We hypothesize that paired-box transcription factors, Pax3/7, are 
involved with this enhanced self-renewal and that prolonged expression of these 
factors may allow some fish species to escape, or at least forestall, 
sarcopenia/dynapenia. Future research efforts should focus on the experimental 
validation of these genes as key factors in indeterminate growth, both in the 
context of muscle stem cell proliferation and in prevention of skeletal muscle 
senescence.

DOI: 10.3389/fgene.2013.00159
PMCID: PMC3743216
PMID: 23967015


865. J Support Oncol. 2013 Jun;11(2):68-74. doi: 10.12788/j.suponc.0004.

Predicting life expectancy in patients with advanced incurable cancer: a review.

Krishnan M(1), Temel JS, Wright AA, Bernacki R, Selvaggi K, Balboni T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, 
Massachusetts 02115, USA. mkrishnan@lroc.harvard.edu

Oncologists frequently face the difficult task of estimating prognosis in 
patients with incurable malignancies. Their prediction of prognosis informs 
decision-making ranging from recommendations of cancer treatments to hospice 
enrollment. Unfortunately, physicians' estimates of prognosis are often 
inaccurate and overly optimistic. Further, physicians often fail to disclose 
their prognosis estimates, despite patient wishes to the contrary. Several 
studies have examined patient factors that might improve physicians' prognostic 
accuracy, including performance status, clinical symptoms and laboratory values. 
Prognostic models have been developed and validated but, to date, none are able 
to provide accurate estimates throughout the spectrum of advanced illness. This 
review examines tools utilized to predict life expectancy for patients with 
advanced, incurable cancer.

DOI: 10.12788/j.suponc.0004
PMID: 23967494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Scand J Infect Dis. 2013 Nov;45(11):855-62. doi:
10.3109/00365548.2013.813064.  Epub 2013 Aug 23.

A comparison of the predicted risk for cardiovascular disease between 
HIV-infected and uninfected persons in Korea.

Kim SB(1), Kim YC, Kim MH, Song JE, Oh DH, Ahn JY, Ku NS, Kim HW, Jeong SJ, Han 
SH, Song YG, Choi JY, Kim JM.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Internal Medicine and AIDS Research Institute, Yonsei 
University College of Medicine , Seoul , Republic of Korea.

Comment in
    Scand J Infect Dis. 2014 Mar;46(3):240.

BACKGROUND: The introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has 
extended the life expectancy of persons infected with the human immunodeficiency 
virus type 1 (HIV-1). However, cardiovascular disease (CVD) is currently an 
increasing concern for HIV-infected persons.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional case-control study to evaluate and 
compare the 10-y cardiovascular risk of HIV-infected Koreans who had been 
receiving HAART for over 6 months and age- and sex-matched uninfected persons 
who visited a health promotion center, by calculating Framingham risk scores 
(FRS).
RESULTS: The average 10-y risk for cardiovascular events (FRS) was 7.07% (2-45) 
in the HIV group and 6.87% (1-37) in the control group (p = 0.77), corresponding 
to the very low risk group. Among HIV patients, the FRS was above 10% (low to 
moderate cardiovascular risk) in 19.9% of the patients, and above 20% (high 
risk) in 1.7% of the patients. In the healthy control group, the FRS was above 
10% in 16.8% and above 20% in 2.7% (p = 0.57). The FRS was not significantly 
different for HIV-infected patients treated with protease inhibitor (PI)-based 
HAART and those treated with non-nucleoside reverse transcriptase inhibitor 
(NNRTI)-based HAART (7.26 ± 6.3 and 6.81 ± 4.4, respectively, p = 0.69).
CONCLUSIONS: The predicted cardiovascular risk of HIV-infected Koreans on HAART 
by FRS equation was low and similar to that of age- and sex-matched healthy 
control persons. However, the possibility remains that actual cardiovascular 
events could be underestimated. The next step for predicting the cardiovascular 
risk is to calculate the Data Collection of Adverse Events of Anti-HIV Drugs 
(D:A:D) equation risks.

DOI: 10.3109/00365548.2013.813064
PMID: 23968223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Early Interv Psychiatry. 2014 Aug;8(3):276-80. doi: 10.1111/eip.12083. Epub
2013  Aug 22.

Metabolic changes in first-episode early-onset schizophrenia with 
second-generation antipsychotics.

O'Donoghue B(1), Schäfer MR, Becker J, Papageorgiou K, Amminger GP.

Author information:
(1)The Early Psychosis Prevention and Intervention Centre (EPPIC), Orygen Youth 
Health, Parkville, Victoria, Australia.

AIM: Individuals with a diagnosis of schizophrenia have a reduced life 
expectancy compared with the general population and cardiovascular disease is 
the major contributor to this early mortality. The use of second-generation 
antipsychotic (SGA) medications is associated with significant weight gain and 
metabolic side effects; however, there is limited knowledge in certain 
diagnostic groups, specifically early-onset schizophrenia (EOS). This study 
aimed to investigate the metabolic side effects of SGAs, specifically 
olanzapine, risperidone and quetiapine, in a cohort of drug-naïve children and 
adolescents with first-episode EOS.
METHOD: Body mass index (BMI), serum cholesterol and triglycerides were measured 
at baseline and a median of 7 months of follow up in drug-naïve children and 
adolescents with EOS.
RESULTS: A total of 49 children and adolescents received a diagnosis of 
first-episode EOS and we had complete follow-up data for 74% (N = 36). A 
significant increase in BMI, serum triglycerides and cholesterol was observed in 
the unselected cohort after commencement of SGAs. One-third of children and 
adolescents had abnormal serum triglycerides and cholesterol; however, a 
dose-response was not demonstrated. Olanzapine and quetiapine had a greater 
increase in serum triglycerides.
CONCLUSIONS: In addition to highlighting the need for routine screening for 
metabolic side effects in EOS, interventions to prevent and treat obesity and 
the metabolic syndrome are indicated.

© 2013 Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eip.12083
PMID: 23968390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Gerontologist. 2014 Feb;54(1):13-20. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnt086. Epub 2013
Aug  22.

Sidney Katz, MD: a new paradigm for chronic illness and long-term care.

Noelker LS(1), Browdie R.

Author information:
(1)*Address correspondence to Linda S. Noelker, Benjamin Rose Institute on 
Aging, 11890 Fairhill Road, Cleveland, OH 44120. E-mail: lnoelker@benrose.org.

Dr. Sidney Katz's legacy to the field of gerontology is internationally 
recognized as his success at developing standardized measures and processes, 
beginning with the activities of daily living index, for the functional 
assessment of older adults with chronic conditions necessitating long-term 
services and supports. That work served as the bedrock for his subsequent major 
accomplishments, which improved rehabilitation services through 
interdisciplinary team work and attention to the patient-family constellation; 
reformed the regulation of nursing homes, refocusing it on resident outcomes and 
quality of life; and promulgated the concept of active life expectancy as a new 
approach to measuring the quality of later life. Few other scholars and 
researchers in the history of the field of aging can claim one, much less 
multiple monumental contributions leading to major advances in the treatment of 
chronic illness and the quality of long-term care.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnt086
PMID: 23969255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. J Occup Environ Med. 2013 Sep;55(9):1100-9. doi:
10.1097/JOM.0b013e31829b279a.

Economic evaluation of an occupational health care guideline for prevention of 
weight gain among employees.

van Wier MF(1), Verweij LM, Proper KI, Hulshof CT, van Tulder MW, van Mechelen 
W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, VU University Medical Center, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands. mvanwier@gmail.com

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness and the financial return of a 
guideline for occupational physicians (OPs), aimed at the prevention of weight 
gain among employees.
METHODS: The guideline consisted of a company-environment scan and up to five 
individual sessions with an OP. Sixteen OPs randomized to the guideline (n = 7) 
or usual care group (n = 9) recruited 275 and 249 employees. Costs were 
collected by using 3-monthly retrospective questionnaires. Quality-adjusted 
life-years gained were determined with 6-monthly administered EuroQol-5D. Waist 
circumference and body weight were measured at baseline and 18 months.
RESULTS: Unfavorable differences were found on waist circumference (+1.6 cm; 95% 
confidence interval [CI], 0.27 to 2.90) and weight (+1.1 kg; 95% CI, 0.01 to 
2.15). Probabilities of cost-effectiveness were consistently less than 55%. Net 
employer loss was &OV0556;-158 (95% CI, -2865 to 2672).
CONCLUSIONS: The occupational health care guideline was not cost-effective and 
no financial return was shown.

DOI: 10.1097/JOM.0b013e31829b279a
PMID: 23969508 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Int J Cardiol. 2013 Oct 9;168(4):3173-82. doi: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2013.07.253.
 Epub 2013 Aug 3.

Greek underpinnings to his methodology in unraveling De Motu Cordis and what 
Harvey has to teach us still today.

Pasipoularides A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Duke University School of Medicine, Durham, NC 27710, 
USA. Electronic address: apasipou@duke.edu.

William Harvey's writings betray amazing insights born out of countless hours of 
thoughtful experimentation. Throughout his life, Harvey worked as a tireless and 
thoughtful researcher and a transmitter and intermediary between the ancient 
Greek natural philosophers and physicians and the "moderns," for whom he founded 
two forward-looking, interlinked sciences: modern physiology and nascent 
cardiology. Harvey's methodology and demonstrations were of such fundamental and 
standardizing nature as to secure the sure progress of these two sciences. Thus, 
he rendered to them such a service as Descartes's cogito ergo sum furnished to 
Philosophy in giving it a rational standard of certainty, for want of which the 
more speculative minds of that era were inundated with extraordinary 
conjectures. If Harvey disproved Galen, he absorbed and continued in his 
physiologic research many a principle from Aristotle, whose supreme disciple he 
remains. The guidance and authority of Aristotle were strong with him to the 
end. Harvey's account of the motions of the heart and blood in the circulation 
demonstrated that complex physiological systems can be represented in 
straightforward mechanical terms, a concept which has remained fundamental to 
the present day. The philosophical implication of William Harvey's discovery of 
the circulation of the blood was the resolute application of the experimental 
method to cardiology. In my judgment, he established today's forward-looking 
discipline of translational cardiovascular research. In due course, he should be 
widely acknowledged to have done so.

© 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijcard.2013.07.253
PMID: 23972367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Curr Probl Cardiol. 2013 Sep;38(9):365-409. doi: 
10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2013.06.003.

Natural history of mild and of moderate aortic stenosis-new insights from a 
large prospective European study.

Gohlke-Bärwolf C, Minners J, Jander N, Gerdts E, Wachtell K, Ray S, Pedersen TR.

Increased life expectancy has led to a higher prevalence of calcific aortic 
valve disease. Both ends of the disease spectrum-sclerosis of the aortic valve 
without hemodynamic obstruction and the late stage of aortic valve stenosis 
(AS)-have been associated with increased morbidity and mortality. This raises 
the question of the prognostic contribution of atherosclerotic diseases and 
other comorbidities as opposed to the hemodynamic effect of obstructive AS. 
Hence, the evaluation of asymptomatic patients with mild or moderate AS without 
comorbidities is of major interest. In the Simvastatin and Ezetimibe in Aortic 
Stenosis study, with the exception of hypertension, comorbidities were excluded, 
thus allowing an analysis of the effect of pure AS as well as the effect of 
hypertension on the progression and outcome of AS. We discuss the results that 
emerged from this large European prospective study and relate these to the 
published literature.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cpcardiol.2013.06.003
PMID: 23972937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Mol Cell. 2013 Sep 12;51(5):691-701. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2013.07.016. Epub
 2013 Aug 22.

PICH: a DNA translocase specially adapted for processing anaphase bridge DNA.

Biebricher A(#)(1), Hirano S(#)(2), Enzlin JH(3), Wiechens N(4), Streicher 
WW(5), Huttner D(3)(5), Wang LH(6), Nigg EA(6), Owen-Hughes T(4), Liu Y(3), 
Peterman E(#)(1), Wuite GJL(#)(1), Hickson ID(#)(2)(3).

Author information:
(1)LaserLaB Amsterdam and Department of Physics, VU University Amsterdam, De 
Boelelaan 1081, 1081HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Weatherall Institute of Molecular Medicine, University of Oxford, John 
Radcliffe Hospital, Oxford, OX3 9DS, U. K.
(3)Nordea Center for Healthy Aging, Department of Cellular and Molecular 
Medicine, Panum Institute 18.1, University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3B, 2200 
Copenhagen N, Denmark.
(4)Centre for Gene Regulation and Expression, College of Life Sciences, 
University of Dundee, Dundee, DD1 5EH, U.K.
(5)Novo Nordisk Foundation Center for Protein Research, Panum Institute, 
University of Copenhagen, Blegdamsvej 3B, 2200 Copenhagen N, Denmark.
(6)Biozentrum, University of Basel, Klingelbergstrasse 50/70, CH-4056, 
Switzerland.
(#)Contributed equally

The Plk1-interacting checkpoint helicase (PICH) protein localizes to ultrafine 
anaphase bridges (UFBs) in mitosis alongside a complex of DNA repair proteins, 
including the Bloom's syndrome protein (BLM). However, very little is known 
about the function of PICH or how it is recruited to UFBs. Using a combination 
of microfluidics, fluorescence microscopy, and optical tweezers, we have defined 
the properties of PICH in an in vitro model of an anaphase bridge. We show that 
PICH binds with a remarkably high affinity to duplex DNA, resulting in 
ATP-dependent protein translocation and extension of the DNA. Most strikingly, 
the affinity of PICH for binding DNA increases with tension-induced DNA 
stretching, which mimics the effect of the mitotic spindle on a UFB. PICH 
binding also appears to diminish force-induced DNA melting. We propose a model 
in which PICH recognizes and stabilizes DNA under tension during anaphase, 
thereby facilitating the resolution of entangled sister chromatids.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2013.07.016
PMCID: PMC4161920
PMID: 23973328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Mol Cell. 2013 Aug 22;51(4):440-53. doi: 10.1016/j.molcel.2013.08.008.

The logic and mechanism of homologous recombination partner choice.

Hong S(1), Sung Y, Yu M, Lee M, Kleckner N, Kim KP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Chung-Ang University, Seoul 156-756, Korea.

Recombinational repair of spontaneous double-strand breaks (DSBs) exhibits 
sister bias. DSB-initiated meiotic recombination exhibits homolog bias. Physical 
analysis in yeast reveals that, in both cases, the recombination reaction 
intrinsically gives homolog bias. From this baseline default, cohesin intervenes 
to confer sister bias, likely independent of cohesion. In meiosis, cohesin's 
sister-biasing effect is counteracted by RecA homolog Rad51 and its mediators, 
plus meiotic RecA homolog Dmc1, which thereby restore intrinsic homolog bias. 
Meiotic axis complex Red1/Mek1/Hop1 participates by cleanly switching 
recombination from mitotic to meiotic mode, concomitantly activating Dmc1. We 
propose that a Rad51/DNA filament at one DSB end captures the intact sister, 
creating an anchor pad. This filament extends across the DSB site on the intact 
partner, precluding intersister strand exchange, thus forcing use of the 
homolog. Cohesin and Dmc1 interactively modulate this extension, with 
program-appropriate effects. In accord with this model, Rad51-mediated 
recombination in vivo requires the presence of a sister.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molcel.2013.08.008
PMCID: PMC4049084
PMID: 23973374 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Cancer Radiother. 2013 Oct;17(5-6):424-7. doi: 10.1016/j.canrad.2013.06.030.
 Epub 2013 Aug 20.

[Radiotherapy of brain metastases according to the GPA score (Graded Prognostic 
Assessment)].

[Article in French]

Antoni D(1), Noël G.

Author information:
(1)Département universitaire de radiothérapie, centre de lutte contre le cancer 
Paul-Strauss, 3, rue de la Porte-de-l'Hôpital, BP 42, 67065 Strasbourg cedex, 
France. Electronic address: dantoni@strasbourg.unicancer.fr.

The management of patients with brain metastases remains a difficult and 
controversial subject. For years, the standard treatment has been whole-brain 
radiation therapy alone, but its validity is now under question because of 
improvements in surgery and the development of radiosurgery or novel targeted 
therapies and also because whole-brain radiation therapy is responsible for long 
term neurocognitive toxicity. Therefore it is important to assess 
diagnosis-specific prognostic factors and indexes when scheduling treatments. 
The GPA score (Graded Prognostic Assessment), established for various histologic 
tumor types, includes five prognostic factors: age, Karnofsky Performance 
Status, presence of extracranial metastases, number of brain metastases and also 
genetic subtype for breast cancer. We propose an adaptation of the management of 
brain metastases according to the GPA score.

Copyright © 2013 Société française de radiothérapie oncologique (SFRO). 
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canrad.2013.06.030
PMID: 23973456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. World Neurosurg. 2014 Jan;81(1):203.e1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.08.018.
Epub  2013 Aug 20.

Acute chiasmal abscess resulting from perineural extension of invasive 
sino-orbital aspergillosis in an immunocompetent patient.

Leyngold I(1), Olivi A(2), Ishii M(3), Blitz A(4), Burger P(5), Subramanian 
PS(6), Gallia G(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA. Electronic address: ileyngo1@health.usf.edu.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(6)Department of Ophthalmology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(7)Department of Neurosurgery, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland, USA; Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Intracranially invasive sino-orbital aspergillosis is a rare entity 
seen predominantly in immunocompromised individuals. We report a unique case of 
an acute chiasmal abscess resulting from perineural extension of an indolent 
invasive sino-orbital aspergillosis in an immunocompetent patient.
CASE DESCRIPTION: A 61-year-old healthy Ukrainian man presented with severe left 
retro-orbital pain and a gradual ipsilateral monocular vision loss with rapid 
progression to a contralateral temporal visual field cut. He was found to have 
an intracranially invasive sino-orbital Aspergillus fumigatus infection with 
perineural extension along the optic nerve complicated by an acute chiasmal 
abscess.
RESULTS: The patient was managed with surgical debridement and adjuvant 
antifungal chemotherapy. The patient's life and vision were preserved.
CONCLUSIONS: The case demonstrates that it is possible to successfully control 
advanced intracranial aspergillosis with tissue-sparing surgery and adjuvant 
antifungal chemotherapy in immunocompetent individuals.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.08.018
PMCID: PMC4696048
PMID: 23973515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: The authors declare that 
the article content was composed in the absence of any commercial or financial 
relationships that could be construed as a potential conflict of interest.


876. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2014 Mar;12(3):443-450.e1. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2013.08.021. Epub 2013 Aug 22.

Limited life expectancy among a subgroup of medicare beneficiaries receiving 
screening colonoscopies.

Mittal S(1), Lin YL(2), Tan A(2), Kuo YF(2), El-Serag HB(3), Goodwin JS(2).

Author information:
(1)Section of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, Texas; Houston VA Health Services Research and Development Center of 
Excellence, Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Houston, Texas. 
Electronic address: smittal@bcm.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine and Sealy Center of Aging, University of Texas Medical 
Branch, Galveston, Texas.
(3)Section of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Baylor College of Medicine, 
Houston, Texas; Houston VA Health Services Research and Development Center of 
Excellence, Michael E. DeBakey Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Houston, Texas.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Life expectancy is an important consideration when assessing 
appropriateness of preventive programs for older individuals. Most studies on 
this subject have used age cutoffs as a proxy for life expectancy. We analyzed 
patterns of utilization of screening colonoscopy in Medicare enrollees by using 
estimated life expectancy.
METHODS: We used a 5% random national sample of Medicare claims data to identify 
average-risk patients who underwent screening colonoscopies from 2008 to 2010. 
Colonoscopies were considered to be screening colonoscopies in the absence of 
diagnoses for nonscreening indications, which were based on either colonoscopies 
or any claims in the preceding 3 months. We estimated life expectancies by using 
a model that combined age, sex, and comorbidity. Among patients who underwent 
screening colonoscopies, we calculated the percentage of those with life 
expectancies <10 years.
RESULTS: Among the 57,597 Medicare beneficiaries 66 years old or older who 
received at least 1 screening colonoscopy, 24.8% had an estimated life 
expectancy of <10 years. There was a significant positive association between 
total Medicare per capita costs in hospital referral regions and the proportion 
of patients with limited life expectancies (<10 years) at the time of screening 
colonoscopy (R = 0.25; P < .001, Pearson correlation test). In a multivariable 
analysis, men were substantially more likely than women to have limited life 
expectancy at the time of screening colonoscopy (odds ratio, 2.25; 95% 
confidence interval, 2.16-2.34).
CONCLUSIONS: Nearly 25% of Medicare beneficiaries, especially men, had life 
expectancies <10 years at the time of screening colonoscopies. Life expectancy 
should therefore be incorporated in decision-making for preventive services.

Copyright © 2014 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2013.08.021
PMCID: PMC3944371
PMID: 23973925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest - The authors have no 
conflicts of interest or financial disclosures.


877. Int J Public Health. 2014 Feb;59(1):213. doi: 10.1007/s00038-013-0505-y.

The female health-survival advantage: paradox unwarranted.

Dix D(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Hartford, West Hartford, CT, USA, Dix@hartford.edu.

Comment on
    Int J Public Health. 2013 Feb;58(1):143-55.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-013-0505-y
PMID: 23974353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. J Health Polit Policy Law. 2013 Dec;38(6):1129-48. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-2373166. Epub 2013 Aug 23.

Can the NICE "end-of-life premium" be given a coherent ethical justification?

Cookson R(1).

Author information:
(1)University of York.

In 2009 the UK National Institute for Health and Clinical Excellence (NICE) 
announced that its health technology appraisal committees would henceforth give 
special additional weight to health gains from life-extending end-of-life 
treatments. This was a response to mounting concern from NICE's stakeholders 
that effective new drugs for end-stage cancer often fail NICE's standard test of 
cost effectiveness. This change of policy may be justifiable on procedural 
grounds as the result of a democratic political process responding to 
stakeholder concerns. However, according to the "accountability for 
reasonableness" framework proposed by the philosopher Norman Daniels and 
endorsed by NICE, there also needs to be transparency about the substantive 
ethical grounds for public health care resource allocation decisions. In that 
spirit, I analyze eleven potentially relevant justifications for the NICE 
"end-of-life premium," drawn from the economics and philosophy literature: (1) 
rule of rescue, (2) fair chances, (3) ex post willingness to pay, (4) caring 
externality, (5) financial protection, (6) symbolic value, (7) diminishing 
marginal value of future life years, (8) concentration of benefits, (9) dread, 
(10) time to set your affairs in order, and (11) severity of illness. I conclude 
that none of them yields a coherent ethical justification for the NICE 
end-of-life premium.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-2373166
PMID: 23974470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. J Health Polit Policy Law. 2013 Dec;38(6):1149-71. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-2373175. Epub 2013 Aug 23.

Disinvestments in practice: overcoming resistance to change through a 
sociotechnical approach with local stakeholders.

Airoldi M(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Economics and Political Science.

For health care, economists have developed cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) as 
a "rational," analytic tool to set priorities. Attempts to use CEA to decide how 
to cut expenditures, however, have been met with stakeholders' resistance. This 
article presents an illustrative case study of the application of an approach 
explicitly designed to engage stakeholders with conflicting objectives in 
confronting tightening budgets. The outcome of this process, which engaged a 
group of stakeholders including patients, caregivers, clinicians, and managers, 
was a strategy that reconfigured services to produce more health gain at reduced 
total cost. I argue that the key factors that led to overcoming resistance to 
change were (1) the collective character of the deliberations; (2) the analysis 
of the whole pathway; (3) the presence of patients; and (4) the development of a 
model based on CEA principles, which provided a credible rationale for difficult 
decisions.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-2373175
PMID: 23974471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. J Health Polit Policy Law. 2013 Dec;38(6):1103-27. doi: 
10.1215/03616878-2373157. Epub 2013 Aug 23.

Health care rationing: doing it better in public and private health care 
systems.

Maynard A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of York.

All public and private health care systems ration patient access to care. The 
private sector rations access to consumers who are willing and able to pay. The 
poor and disadvantaged have limited access to care and inadequate income 
protection. In public health systems, care is provided on the basis of "need," 
that is, the comparative cost-effectiveness of competing treatments. This 
results in patients being deprived of care if treatments are clinically 
effective but not cost-effective. Rationing health care is ubiquitous. In both 
types of systems physicians have discretion to deviate from these rationing 
principles. This has created inefficient variations in clinical practice. These 
are difficult to resolve because of the lack of transparency of costs and 
patient outcomes and perverse incentives. The failure to remove universal 
inefficiency in a period of economic austerity sharpens awareness of rationing. 
Hopes of greater efficiency are largely faith based. Competing ideologues from 
the left and the right continue to offer evidence for free solutions to 
long-established problems. Inefficiency is unethical, as it deprives potential 
patients of care from which they could benefit. Reducing inefficiency is 
essential but difficult. The universal challenge is to decide who shall live 
when all will die in a world of scarce resources.

DOI: 10.1215/03616878-2373157
PMID: 23974472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Perspect Biol Med. 2013 Spring;56(2):316-25. doi: 10.1353/pbm.2013.0021.

Formulating a curriculum on aging and health for university undergraduates.

Hamerman D, Fried LP.

There is a need in our society to raise the national consciousness about aging, 
health, and the prospects for longevity, so that many more persons take 
responsibility for their personal health and understand what we will need in an 
era of health-care reform to promote health across the life course. We address 
this imperative by offering a relevant curriculum through a public-health lens, 
designed especially for university undergraduate students. Unlike the 
traditional educational focus on graduate students who are already committed to 
a career in the health professions, the students in our sights have little prior 
exposure to the course content and are still largely uncertain of their career 
plans. We believe this proposed course will help students understand aging 
processes as these evolve over time, understand the opportunities that arise 
from greater life expectancy, encourage them to promote their own health, and 
make a social contract to do so for society.
