expectancy. Most of the existing comparisons focus on Western Europe and the 
United States, often relying on older data. To address these deficiencies, we 
estimated educational differences in disability-free life expectancy for eight 
countries from all parts of Europe in the early 2000s. Long-standing severe 
disability was measured as a Global Activity Limitation Indicator (GALI) derived 
from the European Union Statistics on Income and Living Conditions (EU-SILC) 
survey. Census-linked mortality data were collected by a recent project 
comparing health inequalities between European countries (the EURO-GBD-SE 
project). We calculated sex-specific educational differences in disability-free 
life expectancy between the ages of 30 and 79 years using the Sullivan method. 
The lowest disability-free life expectancy was found among Lithuanian men and 
women (33.1 and 39.1 years, respectively) and the highest among Italian men and 
women (42.8 and 44.4 years, respectively). Life expectancy and disability-free 
life expectancy were directly related to the level of education, but the 
educational differences were much greater in the latter in all countries. The 
difference in the disability-free life expectancy between those with a primary 
or lower secondary education and those with a tertiary education was over 10 
years for males in Lithuania and approximately 7 years for males in Austria, 
Finland and France, as well as for females in Lithuania. The difference was 
smallest in Italy (4 and 2 years among men and women, respectively). Highly 
educated Europeans can expect to live longer and spend more years in better 
health than those with lower education. The size of the educational difference 
in disability-free life expectancy varies significantly between countries. The 
smallest and largest differences appear to be in Southern Europe and in Eastern 
and Northern Europe, respectively.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.06.009
PMID: 23931939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. J Epidemiol Glob Health. 2013 Sep;3(3):157-63. doi:
10.1016/j.jegh.2013.05.001.  Epub 2013 Jun 14.

Bayesian lead time estimation for the Johns Hopkins Lung Project data.

Jang H(1), Kim S, Wu D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioinformatics and Biostatistics, School of Public Health and 
Information Sciences, University of Louisville, Louisville, KY 40202, USA. 
h0jang01@louisville.edu

PROBLEM STATEMENT: Lung cancer screening using X-rays has been controversial for 
many years. A major concern is whether lung cancer screening really brings any 
survival benefits, which depends on effective treatment after early detection. 
The problem was analyzed from a different point of view and estimates were 
presented of the projected lead time for participants in a lung cancer screening 
program using the Johns Hopkins Lung Project (JHLP) data.
METHOD: The newly developed method of lead time estimation was applied where the 
lifetime T was treated as a random variable rather than a fixed value, resulting 
in the number of future screenings for a given individual is a random variable. 
Using the actuarial life table available from the United States Social Security 
Administration, the lifetime distribution was first obtained, then the lead time 
distribution was projected using the JHLP data.
RESULTS: The data analysis with the JHLP data shows that, for a male heavy 
smoker with initial screening ages at 50, 60, and 70, the probability of 
no-early-detection with semiannual screens will be 32.16%, 32.45%, and 33.17%, 
respectively; while the mean lead time is 1.36, 1.33 and 1.23 years. The 
probability of no-early-detection increases monotonically when the screening 
interval increases, and it increases slightly as the initial age increases for 
the same screening interval. The mean lead time and its standard error decrease 
when the screening interval increases for all age groups, and both decrease when 
initial age increases with the same screening interval.
CONCLUSION: The overall mean lead time estimated with a random lifetime T is 
slightly less than that with a fixed value of T. This result is hoped to be of 
benefit to improve current screening programs.

Copyright © 2013 Ministry of Health, Saudi Arabia. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jegh.2013.05.001
PMCID: PMC7320371
PMID: 23932058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that they have no conflict 
of interest.


760. Med Clin (Barc). 2014 Aug 19;143(4):150-6. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2013.05.028.  Epub 2013 Aug 6.

[Disability attributable to excess weight in Spain].

[Article in Spanish]

Martín-Ramiro JJ(1), Alvarez-Martín E(2), Gil-Prieto R(3).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía General y Aparato Digestivo, Hospital Severo Ochoa, 
Madrid, España; Facultad de Medicina, Universidad Alfonso X El Sabio, Madrid, 
España. Electronic address: 44javier@gmail.com.
(2)Plan Nacional sobre Drogas, Ministerio de Sanidad, Servicios Sociales e 
Igualdad, Madrid, España; Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Rey Juan 
Carlos, Madrid, España.
(3)Facultad de Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad Rey Juan Carlos, Madrid, 
España.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: To estimate the disability attributable to higher than 
optimal body mass index in the Spanish population in 2006.
POPULATION AND METHOD: Excess body weight prevalence data were obtained from the 
2006 National Health Survey (NHS), while the prevalence of associated 
morbidities was extracted from the 2006 NHS and from a national hospital data 
base. Population attributable fractions were applied and disability attributable 
was expressed as years life with disability (YLD).
RESULTS: In 2006, in the Spanish population aged 35-79 years, 791.650 YLD were 
lost due to higher than optimal body mass index (46.7% in males and 53.3% in 
females). Overweight (body mass index 25-29.9) accounted for 45.7% of total YLD. 
Males YLD were higher than females under 60. The 35-39 quinquennial group showed 
a difference for males of 16.6% while in the 74-79 group the difference was 
23.8% for women. Osteoarthritis and chronic back pain accounted for 60% of YLD 
while hypertensive disease and type 2 diabetes mellitus were responsible of 37%.
CONCLUSIONS: Excess body weight is a health risk related to the development of 
various diseases with an important associated disability burden and social and 
economical cost. YLD analysis is a useful monitor tool for disease control 
interventions.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2013.05.028
PMID: 23932567 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. J Formos Med Assoc. 2015 Aug;114(8):722-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jfma.2013.06.017.
Epub  2013 Aug 9.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of carrier and prenatal genetic testing for X-linked 
hemophilia.

Tsai MC(1), Cheng CN(1), Wang RJ(2), Chen KT(2), Kuo MC(3), Lin SJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Public Health, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, Chi-Mei Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan, Taiwan; Department of 
Pediatrics, Chi-Mei Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
shiojean@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: Hemophilia involves a lifelong burden from the perspective 
of the patient and the entire healthcare system. Advances in genetic testing 
provide valuable information to hemophilia-affected families for family 
planning. The aim of this study was to analyze the cost-effectiveness of carrier 
and prenatal genetic testing in the health-economic framework in Taiwan.
METHODS: A questionnaire was developed to assess the attitudes towards genetic 
testing for hemophilia. We modeled clinical outcomes of the proposed testing 
scheme by using the decision tree method. Incremental cost-effectiveness 
analysis was conducted, based on data from the National Health Insurance (NHI) 
database and a questionnaire survey.
RESULTS: From the NHI database, 1111 hemophilic patients were identified and 
required an average medical expenditure of approximately New Taiwan (NT) $2.1 
million per patient-year in 2009. By using the decision tree model, we estimated 
that 26 potential carriers need to be tested to prevent one case of hemophilia. 
At a screening rate of 79%, carrier and prenatal genetic testing would cost NT 
$85.9 million, which would be offset by an incremental saving of NT $203 million 
per year by preventing 96 cases of hemophilia. Assuming that the life expectancy 
for hemophilic patients is 70 years, genetic testing could further save NT $14.2 
billion. Higher screening rates would increase the savings for healthcare 
resources.
CONCLUSION: Carrier and prenatal genetic testing for hemophilia is a 
cost-effective investment in healthcare allocation. A case management system 
should be integrated in the current practice to facilitate patient care (e.g., 
collecting family pedigrees and providing genetic counseling).

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfma.2013.06.017
PMID: 23932837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2013 Nov;67(2):246-51. doi: 
10.1016/j.yrtph.2013.08.003. Epub 2013 Aug 8.

A dynamic population model for estimating all-cause mortality due to lifetime 
exposure history.

Bachand AM(1), Sulsky SI.

Author information:
(1)Environ International Corporation, United States; Colorado State University, 
United States.

Erratum in
    Regul Toxicol Pharmacol. 2017 Nov;90:364.

We developed a comprehensive, flexible dynamic model that estimates all-cause 
mortality for a hypothetical cohort. All model input is user-specified. In the 
base case, members of the cohort may be exposed to a high risk product as they 
age. The counterfactual scenario includes exposure to both a high risk and a 
lower risk product. The model sorts the population into age and exposure 
categories, and applies the appropriate mortality rates to each category. The 
model tracks individual exposure histories, and estimates, at the end of each 
modeled age category, the number of survivors in the two exposure scenarios 
(base case and counterfactual), and the difference between them. Markov Chain 
Monte Carlo techniques are used to estimate the variability of the results. 
Model output was compared against US and Swedish life tables using 
population-specific tobacco exposure transition probabilities derived from the 
literature, and it produced similar survival estimates.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yrtph.2013.08.003
PMID: 23933005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2014 May;1844(5):933-9. doi:
10.1016/j.bbapap.2013.07.016.  Epub 2013 Aug 7.

Protein biomarker validation via proximity ligation assays.

Blokzijl A(1), Nong R(1), Darmanis S(1), Hertz E(1), Landegren U(1), 
Kamali-Moghaddam M(2).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Science for Life Laboratory, 
Uppsala University, SE-751 08 Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Dept. of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Science for Life Laboratory, 
Uppsala University, SE-751 08 Uppsala, Sweden. Electronic address: 
masood.kamali@igp.uu.se.

The ability to detect minute amounts of specific proteins or protein 
modifications in blood as biomarkers for a plethora of human pathological 
conditions holds great promise for future medicine. Despite a large number of 
plausible candidate protein biomarkers published annually, the translation to 
clinical use is impeded by factors such as the required size of the initial 
studies, and limitations of the technologies used. The proximity ligation assay 
(PLA) is a versatile molecular tool that has the potential to address some 
obstacles, both in validation of biomarkers previously discovered using other 
techniques, and for future routine clinical diagnostic needs. The enhanced 
specificity of PLA extends the opportunities for large-scale, high-performance 
analyses of proteins. Besides advantages in the form of minimal sample 
consumption and an extended dynamic range, the PLA technique allows flexible 
assay reconfiguration. The technology can be adapted for detecting protein 
complexes, proximity between proteins in extracellular vesicles or in 
circulating tumor cells, and to address multiple post-translational 
modifications in the same protein molecule. We discuss herein requirements for 
biomarker validation, and how PLA may play an increasing role in this regard. We 
describe some recent developments of the technology, including proximity 
extension assays, the use of recombinant affinity reagents suitable for use in 
proximity assays, and the potential for single cell proteomics. This article is 
part of a Special Issue entitled: Biomarkers: A Proteomic Challenge.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbapap.2013.07.016
PMID: 23933049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Postgrad Med. 2013 Jul;125(4):141-53. doi: 10.3810/pgm.2013.07.2686.

A Canadian study of the cost-effectiveness of apixaban compared with enoxaparin 
for post-surgical venous thromboembolism prevention.

Revankar N(1), Patterson J, Kadambi A, Raymond V, El-Hadi W.

Author information:
(1)Modeling and Simulation, Evidera, Hammersmith, London, United Kingdom. 
nikhil.revankar@unitedbiosource.com

BACKGROUND: Occurrence of a venous thromboembolism (VTE) in patients undergoing 
major orthopedic surgery who are not given thromboprophylactic therapy presents 
considerable danger to patient medical outcomes and a significant economic 
burden to the health care system at large. Apixaban is a direct factor Xa 
inhibitor that has been shown in clinical trial use to safely reduce the 
composite of VTE and mortality rates in patients undergoing total hip 
arthroplasty (THA) and total knee arthroplasty (TKA); however, the 
cost-effectiveness of apixaban treatment in Canadian settings has not been 
studied. Our study evaluated the cost-effectiveness of apixaban compared with 
enoxaparin as VTE preventive therapy in patients undergoing elective THA or TKA 
in Canada.
METHODS: An economic model, including both a decision-tree component and a 
Markov model, was created. The decision tree considered VTE, bleeding, and 
mortality incidence that occurred in patients within 90 days post-surgery using 
data from the Apixaban Versus Enoxaparin for Thromboprophylaxis After Knee or 
Hip Replacement (ADVANCE) trials, which compared apixaban therapy with 30-mg 
twice daily and 40-mg daily enoxaparin treatment. The Markov model provided the 
option to simulate events that may occur over the long term, such as recurrent 
VTE and post-thrombotic syndrome. Outcomes during the short-term phase directly 
impact the risk of events occurring during the long-term phase (5 years 
post-surgery).
RESULTS: The results of our analysis indicated that apixaban is dominant (ie, 
more effective and less expensive) than enoxaparin in treating patients 
undergoing THA and TKA. There were fewer occurrences of VTEs, bleeding events, 
recurrent VTEs, and post-thrombotic syndrome events in the TKA population with 
apixaban therapy. Similar results were seen in patients undergoing THA, with the 
exception of bleeding events, which were more common with apixaban treatment. 
Savings of $180 to $270 per patient are expected with apixaban treatment 
compared with enoxaparin treatment, and health outcomes in general are better 
with apixaban use. Sensitivity analyses yielded consistent results across the 
THA and TKA populations.
CONCLUSION: : This is the first economic evaluation of apixaban use for VTE 
thromboprophylaxis in the Canadian setting, and our study results show apixaban 
to be a cost-effective treatment alternative to preventive treatment with 
enoxaparin.

DOI: 10.3810/pgm.2013.07.2686
PMID: 23933902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Int J Hematol. 2013 Oct;98(4):406-16. doi: 10.1007/s12185-013-1404-y. Epub
2013  Aug 11.

Long-term efficacy and safety of eculizumab in Japanese patients with PNH: AEGIS 
trial.

Kanakura Y(1), Ohyashiki K, Shichishima T, Okamoto S, Ando K, Ninomiya H, 
Kawaguchi T, Nakao S, Nakakuma H, Nishimura J, Kinoshita T, Bedrosian CL, Ozawa 
K, Omine M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Osaka University Hospital, Suita, 
Japan, kanakura@bldon.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.

Paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria (PNH) is a rare, progressive hematopoietic 
stem cell disorder characterized by chronic complement-mediated hemolysis 
leading to life-threatening complications and early mortality. Eculizumab, a 
humanized anti-C5 monoclonal antibody, inhibits terminal complement activation, 
reduces hemolysis, decreases the risk of thrombosis, and improves renal function 
and quality of life in PNH patients. The long-term efficacy and safety of 
eculizumab in Japanese patients were assessed in a 2-year extension to a 
12-week, open-label study (AEGIS). Eculizumab treatment led to an immediate and 
sustained reduction in intravascular hemolysis (P < 0.001) and red blood cell 
transfusions (P = 0.0016) compared with baseline levels. There were no reports 
of thromboembolism during eculizumab treatment. The majority of patients had 
stable (56 %) or improved (41 %) renal function and an improved quality of life 
(P = 0.015), with sustained reductions in fatigue and dyspnea. Eculizumab was 
well tolerated; no deaths or serious hemolytic events were reported, and the 
rate of infections declined over time. There were no significant differences in 
the response to eculizumab in patients with or without bone marrow dysfunction. 
These results demonstrate that eculizumab is an effective, well-tolerated 
long-term treatment for Japanese PNH patients and leads to continued 
amelioration of some hemolytic complications.

DOI: 10.1007/s12185-013-1404-y
PMID: 23934275 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Eur J Epidemiol. 2013 Aug;28(8):617-9. doi: 10.1007/s10654-013-9835-6. Epub
2013  Aug 11.

The 21st century benefits of smoking cessation in Europe.

Jha P(1).

Author information:
(1)Dalla Lana School of Public Health, Centre for Global Health Research, St 
Michael's Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, M5B 1W8, Canada, 
Prabhat.jha@utoronto.ca.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-013-9835-6
PMID: 23934580 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Clin Cancer Res. 2013 Nov 1;19(21):5828-34. doi:
10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0258.  Epub 2013 Aug 9.

Ponatinib--a step forward in overcoming resistance in chronic myeloid leukemia.

Frankfurt O(1), Licht JD.

Author information:
(1)Authors' Affiliation: Robert H. Lurie Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.

With the current therapy, the improvement in survival of patient with early 
chronic phase chronic myelogenous leukemia (CML) is unrivaled by that of any 
other leukemia. In fact, extrapolation of the survival curves may suggest that 
life expectancy of patients who achieve and maintain predetermined milestones 
may not differ from that of the age-matched healthy adults. The main reasons for 
such success are the presence of a well-defined molecular target, the BCR-ABL 
oncogene, necessary and sufficient for the initiation and propagation of CML, 
and the powerful and selective agents that inhibit it. Five U.S. Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA)-approved tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKI), each with unique 
activities and toxicity profiles, allow for individualized patient care. Despite 
the remarkable responses of most patients, a small but significant fraction of 
patients develops clinical resistance to the TKIs, some of which is attributed 
to the BCR-ABL kinase domain mutations affecting TKI binding and activity. The 
recently approved third-generation TKI ponatinib showed remarkable activity in 
the patients with multi-TKI-resistant disease. Particularly impressive was its 
efficacy in patients with T315I mutation that is resistant to all other TKIs. In 
lieu of the current emphasis on achieving earlier and more profound responses 
and excellent activity of ponatinib in the refractory setting, its optimal 
position among the available armamentarium of agents is being established.

DOI: 10.1158/1078-0432.CCR-13-0258
PMID: 23935038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. Nucleic Acids Res. 2013 Oct;41(19):9117-28. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkt695. Epub
2013  Aug 8.

A three-state model for the regulation of telomerase by TERRA and hnRNPA1.

Redon S(1), Zemp I, Lingner J.

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute for Experimental Cancer Research (ISREC), School of Life 
Sciences, Frontiers in Genetics National Center of Competence in Research, Ecole 
Polytechnique Fédérale de Lausanne (EPFL), 1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.

Telomeres, the physical ends of eukaryotic chromosomes, are transcribed into 
telomeric repeat-containing RNA (TERRA), a large non-coding RNA, which forms an 
integral part of telomeric heterochromatin. In vitro, naked TERRA molecules are 
efficient inhibitors of human telomerase, base-pairing via their 5'-UUAGGG-3' 
repeats with the template sequence of telomerase RNA, in addition to contacting 
the telomerase reverse transcriptase protein subunit. In vivo, however, 
TERRA-mediated inhibition of telomerase can be prevented by unknown mechanisms. 
Also, heterogeneous nuclear ribonucleoprotein A1 (hnRNPA1) has been implicated 
in telomere length control. In vivo, TERRA is partially associated with hnRNPA1, 
and hnRNPA1 is also detected at telomeres. We demonstrate that on binding of 
TERRA, hnRNPA1 can alleviate the TERRA-mediated inhibition of telomerase. 
However, when in excess over TERRA, hnRNPA1 becomes itself an inhibitor of 
telomere extension, on binding of the telomeric DNA substrate. Yet, hnRNPA1 has 
no notable direct effects on the telomerase catalysis. Our in vitro results 
suggest that TERRA-mediated telomerase inhibition may be prevented by hnRNPA1 in 
vivo. Telomere extension by telomerase may require balanced levels of TERRA and 
hnRNPA1 at telomeres. Thus, TERRA and hnRNPA1 can function as a bimolecular 
regulator to turn telomerase and the telomere on and off.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkt695
PMCID: PMC3799450
PMID: 23935072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. Hippokratia. 2013 Jan;17(1):81-4.

Treatment of a patient with classical paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria and 
Budd-Chiari syndrome, with complement inhibitor eculizumab: Case Report.

Mandala E(1), Lafaras C, Goulis I, Tsioni K, Georgopoulou V, Ilonidis G.

Author information:
(1)Fourth Department of Internal Medicine, Medical School, Aristotle University 
of Thessaloniki, Hippokratio Hospital, Thessaloniki, Greece.

Background. Paroxysmal nocturnal haemoglobinuria (PNH) is a rare acquired clonal 
disorder of hematopoietic stem cells involving all blood cells. Erythrocytes 
have increased susceptibility to complement-mediated haemolysis. Thrombosis is 
the leading cause of mortality and follows episodes of acute hemolysis. 
Eculizumab, a monoclonal antibody blocking activation of complement C5 is 
currently used in the treatment of PNH. Recent results demonstrated that 
eculizumab effectively reduces thrombosis. Description of case. We present a 
30-year-old male patient admitted with abdominal and lumbar pain. Thorough 
investigation revealed severe hemolytic anemia requiring transfusions and 
hepatosplenomegaly. Imaging findings were compatible with a Budd-Chiari 
syndrome. Flow cytometry confirmed the PNH diagnosis. Due to refractory ascites 
he underwent a transjugular intrahepatic portal-systemic shunt (TIPS) and 
eculizumab administration was started. Results. He has already completed three 
years of eculizumab treatment and he is transfusion independent. There is also a 
significant reduction in fatigue with improvement in his quality of life. 
Doppler scans of his TIPS persistently show it to be patent. Conclusions. 
Classical PNH patients with thrombosis and severe intravascular hemolysis are 
particularly challenging to manage. For these patients, eculizumab is a 
reasonable therapeutic option, expecting that by decreasing the risk for 
thrombosis, life expectancy may be increased.

PMCID: PMC3738287
PMID: 23935352


770. Appl Clin Genet. 2013 Jul 24;6:53-61. doi: 10.2147/TACG.S35605. Print 2013.

Reduced life expectancy seen in hereditary diseases which predispose to 
early-onset tumors.

Evans DG(1), Ingham SL.

Author information:
(1)Genetic Medicine, Manchester Academic Health Science Centre, Central 
Manchester Foundation Trust, St Mary's Hospital, Manchester, UK.

There are several hereditary diseases that are a predisposition to early-onset 
tumors. These include syndromic conditions like neurofibromatosis 1 and 2, von 
Hippel-Lindau syndrome, Gorlin syndrome, multiple endocrine neoplasia, and 
familial adenomatous polyposis; and conditions which are usually not possible to 
diagnose clinically in a single individual, such as Lynch syndrome and BRCA1/2. 
Understanding of the mortality in hereditary cancer predisposing diseases is 
important for developing effective disease treatment programs. A number of 
studies have been undertaken to investigate the genetic predictors, prevalence 
and incidence, and treatment outcomes of these diseases; however, the majority 
examine only the most common of these diseases (eg, neurofibromatosis or BRCA), 
or look into postoperative survival. The mortality of individuals who are 
diagnosed with one of these hereditary diseases remains an area for 
investigation. This review is the first to attempt identification of studies 
investigating life expectancy in hereditary diseases which predispose to 
early-onset tumors.

DOI: 10.2147/TACG.S35605
PMCID: PMC3735038
PMID: 23935382


771. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 6;8(8):e68748. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068748. Print
2013.

The new comorbidity index for predicting survival in elderly dialysis patients: 
a long-term population-based study.

Kan WC(1), Wang JJ, Wang SY, Sun YM, Hung CY, Chu CC, Lu CL, Weng SF, Chio CC, 
Chien CC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Chi-Mei Medical Center, Tainan, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: The worldwide elderly (≥ 65 years old) dialysis population has grown 
significantly. This population is expected to have more comorbid conditions and 
shorter life expectancies than the general elderly population. Predicting 
outcomes for this population is important for decision-making. Recently, a new 
comorbidity index (nCI) with good predictive value for patient outcomes was 
developed and validated in chronic dialysis patients regardless of age. Our 
study examined the nCI outcome predictability in elderly dialysis patients.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: For this population-based cohort study, we used Taiwan's 
National Health Insurance Research Database of enrolled elderly patients, who 
began maintenance dialysis between January 1999 and December 2005. A total of 
21,043 incident dialysis patients were divided into 4 groups by nCI score 
(intervals ≤ 3, 4-6, 7-9, ≥ 10) and followed nearly for 10 years. All-cause 
mortality and life expectancy were analyzed. During the follow-up period, 11272 
(53.55%) patients died. Kaplan-Meier curves showed significant group difference 
in survival (log-rank: P<0.001). After stratification by age, life expectancy 
was found to be significantly longer in groups with lower nCI scores.
CONCLUSION: The nCI, even without the age component, is a strong predictor of 
mortality in elderly dialysis patients. Because patients with lower nCI scores 
may predict better survival, more attention should paid to adequate dialysis 
rather than palliative care, especially in those without obvious functional 
impairments.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0068748
PMCID: PMC3735534
PMID: 23936310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


772. Mediterr J Hematol Infect Dis. 2013 Jul 12;5(1):e2013050. doi: 
10.4084/MJHID.2013.050. Print 2013.

Therapeutic Options for Patients who are not Eligible for Intensive 
Chemotherapy.

Estey E(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Washington and Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, Seattle 
WA, USA.

Although "less intense" therapies are finding more use in AML, the principal 
problem in AML remains lack of efficacy rather than toxicity. Hence less intense 
therapies are of little use if they are not more effective as well as less toxic 
than standard therapies. Assignment of patients to less intense therapies should 
be based on other factors in addition to age. Azacitidine and decitabine, the 
most commonly used less intense therapies in AML very probably produce better OS 
than best "supportive care" or "low-dose" ara-C. However improvement is 
relatively small when compared to expected life expectancy in the absence of 
disease. Accordingly, while azacitidine or decitabine should be considered the 
standards against which newer therapies are compared, continued investigation of 
potentially more effective therapies needs to continue. Better means for 
evaluating the large number of these therapies (and their combinations) are also 
needed.

DOI: 10.4084/MJHID.2013.050
PMCID: PMC3736881
PMID: 23936621


773. ISRN Microbiol. 2013 Jul 10;2013:284950. doi: 10.1155/2013/284950. Print
2013.

Biodegradation of polyethoxylated nonylphenols.

Ruiz Y(1), Medina L, Borusiak M, Ramos N, Pinto G, Valbuena O.

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Microbiológicas Aplicadas (CIMA), Facultad de 
Ciencias de la Salud, Universidad de Carabobo, Valencia 2005, Venezuela ; Centro 
de Investigaciones Químicas (CIQ), Facultad de Ingeniería, Universidad de 
Carabobo, Valencia 2005, Venezuela.

Polyethoxylated nonylphenols, with different ethoxylation degrees (NPEO x ), are 
incorporated into many commercial and industrial products such as detergents, 
domestic disinfectants, emulsifiers, cosmetics, and pesticides. However, the 
toxic effects exerted by their degradation products, which are persistent in 
natural environments, have been demonstrated in several animal and invertebrate 
aquatic species. Therefore, it seems appropriate to look for indigenous bacteria 
capable of degrading native NPEO x and its derivatives. In this paper, the 
isolation of five bacterial strains, capable of using NPEO 15 , as unique carbon 
source, is described. The most efficient NPEO 15 degrader bacterial strains were 
identified as Pseudomonas fluorescens (strain Yas2) and Klebsiella pneumoniae 
(strain Yas1). Maximal growth rates were reached at pH 8, 27°C in a 5% NPEO 15 
medium. The NPEO 15 degradation extension, followed by viscometry assays, 
reached 65% after 54.5 h and 134 h incubation times, while the COD values 
decreased by 95% and 85% after 24 h for the Yas1 and Yas2 systems, respectively. 
The BOD was reduced by 99% and 99.9% levels in 24 h and 48 h incubations. The 
viscosity data indicated that the NPEO 15 biodegradation by Yas2 follows 
first-order kinetics. Kinetic rate constant (k) and half life time (τ) for this 
biotransformation were estimated to be 0.0072 h(-1) and 96.3 h, respectively.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/284950
PMCID: PMC3725770
PMID: 23936727


774. Aging Dis. 2013 Jun 17;4(4):178-85. Print 2013 Aug.

Validated Liquid Culture Monitoring System for Lifespan Extension of 
Caenorhabditis elegans through Genetic and Dietary Manipulations.

Win MT(1), Yamamoto Y, Munesue S, Han D, Harada S, Yamamoto H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Vascular Biology, Kanazawa 
University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Kanazawa 920-8640, Japan.

Nutritional and genetic factors influence aging and life expectancy. The 
reduction of food intake without malnutrition, referred to caloric restriction 
(CR), has been shown to increase lifespan in a wide variety of species. The 
nematode Caenorhabditis elegans (C. elegans) is one of the principle models with 
which to study the biology of aging and search for anti-aging compounds. In this 
study, we validated and optimized a high-throughput liquid culture system to 
monitor C. elegans lifespan with minimized mechanical stress. We used alive and 
ultraviolet (UV)-killed Escherichia coli (E. coli) OP50 at 10(8) or 10(9) 
colony-forming units (cfu)/ml to feed Bristol N2 wild-type (WT) and mutant worms 
of a well-characterized insulin/insulin-like growth factor signaling (ILS) 
pathway: the insulin receptor homolog daf-2 (e1370), phosphatidylinositol 
3-kinase age-1 (hx546), and transcriptional factor FOXO homolog daf-16 (mu86 and 
mgDf50). Compared with alive E. coli at 10(9) cfu/ml, supplementations of alive 
E. coli at 10(8) cfu/ml or UV-killed E. coli at 10(9) cfu/ml dramatically 
prolonged lifespan in WT and age-1 mutants, and to a lesser extent, in daf-2 and 
daf-16 mutants, suggesting that signaling pathways in CR and ILS do not overlap 
fully. Feeding 10(8) cfu/ml UV-killed E. coli, which led to maximally saturated 
longevity in WT and daf-2 mutant, can prolonged lifespan in age-1, but not 
daf-16, mutants. This approach will be useful for investigating the biology of 
aging, physiological responses and gene functions under CR conditions and also 
for screening pharmacologic compounds to extend lifespan or affect other 
biologic processes.

PMCID: PMC3733581
PMID: 23936742


775. J Sex Med. 2014 Jan;11(1):262-72. doi: 10.1111/jsm.12277. Epub 2013 Aug 12.

Is testosterone replacement therapy in males with hypogonadism cost-effective? 
An analysis in Sweden.

Arver S(1), Luong B, Fraschke A, Ghatnekar O, Stanisic S, Gultyev D, Müller E.

Author information:
(1)Center for Andrology and Sexual Medicine, Karolinska University 
Hospital/Huddinge, Stockholm, Sweden; Department of Medicine, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: Testosterone replacement therapy (TRT) has been recommended for 
the treatment of primary and secondary hypogonadism. However, long-term 
implications of TRT have not been investigated extensively.
AIM: The aim of this analysis was to evaluate health outcomes and costs 
associated with life-long TRT in patients suffering from Klinefelter syndrome 
and late-onset hypogonadism (LOH).
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to assess cost-effectiveness of 
testosterone undecanoate (TU) depot injection treatment compared with no 
treatment. Health outcomes and associated costs were modeled in monthly cycles 
per patient individually along a lifetime horizon. Modeled health outcomes 
included development of type 2 diabetes, depression, cardiovascular and 
cerebrovascular complications, and fractures. Analysis was performed for the 
Swedish health-care setting from health-care payer's and societal perspective. 
One-way sensitivity analyses evaluated the robustness of results.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The main outcome measures were quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) and total cost in TU depot injection treatment and no 
treatment cohorts. In addition, outcomes were also expressed as incremental cost 
per QALY gained for TU depot injection therapy compared with no treatment 
(incremental cost-effectiveness ratio [ICER]).
RESULTS: TU depot injection compared to no-treatment yielded a gain of 1.67 
QALYs at an incremental cost of 28,176 EUR (37,192 USD) in the Klinefelter 
population. The ICER was 16,884 EUR (22,287 USD) per QALY gained. Outcomes in 
LOH population estimated benefits of TRT at 19,719 EUR (26,029 USD) per QALY 
gained. Results showed to be considerably robust when tested in sensitivity 
analyses. Variation of relative risk to develop type 2 diabetes had the highest 
impact on long-term outcomes in both patient groups.
CONCLUSION: This analysis suggests that lifelong TU depot injection therapy of 
patients with hypogonadism is a cost-effective treatment in Sweden. Hence, it 
can support clinicians in decision making when considering appropriate treatment 
strategies for patients with testosterone deficiency.

© 2013 International Society for Sexual Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jsm.12277
PMID: 23937088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Bioanalysis. 2013 Aug;5(16):2003-14. doi: 10.4155/bio.13.144.

ADME of monoclonal antibody biotherapeutics: knowledge gaps and emerging tools.

Lee JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Amgen, Inc., One Amgen Center Drive, Mail Stop 30E-3-B, Thousand Oaks, CA 
91320, USA. ljean@gmail.com

Absorption, distribution, metabolism and excretion (ADME) data are pivotal for 
small-molecule drug development, with well-developed in vitro and in vivo 
correlation tools and guidances from regulatory agencies. In the past two 
decades, monoclonal antibody (mAb) biotherapeutics have been successfully 
approved, including derived novel conjugates of active molecules (toxins or 
bioactive peptides) for specific target delivery or half-life extension. 
However, ADME information of mAb therapeutics lags behind that of small 
molecules due to the complex nature of the molecules and lack of appropriate 
tools to study drug exposure, biotransformation, and target engagement in the 
vascular and tissue spaces. In this perspective, the current knowledge gaps on 
ADME of mAb-related therapeutics are reviewed with potential solutions from 
emerging analytical technologies.

DOI: 10.4155/bio.13.144
PMID: 23937135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. FEBS J. 2013 Oct;280(20):5065-79. doi: 10.1111/febs.12479. Epub 2013 Sep 5.

Role of N-terminal extension of Bacillus stearothermophilus RNase H2 and 
C-terminal extension of Thermotoga maritima RNase H2.

Permanasari ED(1), Angkawidjaja C, Koga Y, Kanaya S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Material and Life Science, Graduate School of Engineering, 
Osaka University, Japan.

Bacillus stearothermophilus RNase H2 (BstRNH2) and Thermotoga maritima RNase H2 
(TmaRNH2) have N-terminal and C-terminal extensions, respectively, as compared 
with Aquifex aeolicus RNase H2 (AaeRNH2). To analyze the role of these 
extensions, BstRNH2 and TmaRNH2 without these extensions were constructed, and 
their biochemical properties were compared with those of their intact partners 
and AaeRNH2. The far-UV CD spectra of all proteins were similar, suggesting that 
the protein structure is not significantly altered by removal of these 
extensions. However, both the junction ribonuclease and RNase H activities of 
BstRNH2 and TmaRNH2, as well as their substrate-binding affinities, were 
considerably decreased by removal of these extensions. The stability of BstRNH2 
and TmaRNH2 was also decreased by removal of these extensions. The activity, 
substrate binding affinity and stability of TmaRNH2 without the C-terminal 46 
residues were partly restored by the attachment of the N-terminal extension of 
BstRNH2. These results suggest that the N-terminal extension of BstRNH2 
functions as a substrate-binding domain and stabilizes the RNase H domain. 
Because the C-terminal extension of TmaRNH2 assumes a helix hairpin structure 
and does not make direct contact with the substrate, this extension is probably 
required to make the conformation of the substrate-binding site functional. 
AaeRNH2 showed comparable junction ribonuclease activity to those of BstRNH2 and 
TmaRNH2, and was more stable than these proteins, indicating that bacterial 
RNases H2 do not always require an N-terminal or C-terminal extension to 
increase activity, substrate-binding affinity, and/or stability.

© 2013 FEBS.

DOI: 10.1111/febs.12479
PMID: 23937561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. BJU Int. 2014 Feb;113(2):200-8. doi: 10.1111/bju.12321. Epub 2013 Aug 13.

Radical prostatectomy vs radiotherapy vs observation among older patients with 
clinically localized prostate cancer: a comparative effectiveness evaluation.

Sun M(1), Sammon JD, Becker A, Roghmann F, Tian Z, Kim SP, Larouche A, Abdollah 
F, Hu JC, Karakiewicz PI, Trinh QD.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Prognostics and Health Outcomes Unit, University of Montreal Health 
Center, Montreal, Canada.

Comment in
    BJU Int. 2014 Feb;113(2):179-80.
    J Urol. 2015 Feb;193(2):540.

OBJECTIVE: To compare efficacy between radical prostatectomy (RP), radiotherapy 
and observation with respect to overall survival (OS) in patients with 
clinically localized prostate cancer (PCa).
METHODS: Using data (1988-2005) from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End 
Results-Medicare linked database, 67 087 men with localized PCa were identified. 
The prevalence of the initial treatment strategy was quantified according to 
patients' life expectancy ([LE] <10 vs ≥10 years) at initial diagnosis and 
according to tumour stage. To reduce the unmeasured bias associated with 
treatment, we performed an instrumental variable analysis. Stratified (by stage 
and LE) Cox regression and competing-risks regression analyses were generated 
for the prediction of OS and cancer-specific mortality, respectively.
RESULTS: Among patients with <10 years of LE, most were treated with 
radiotherapy (49%) or observation (47%). Among patients with ≥10 years of LE, 
most received radiotherapy (49%), followed by RP (26%). In men with <10 years of 
LE, RP and radiotherapy were not different with respect to OS (hazard ratio 
[HR]: 0.81, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.45-1.48, P = 0.499). Conversely, in 
men with ≥10 years of LE, RP was associated with an improved OS compared with 
observation (HR: 0.59, 95% CI: 0.49-0.71, P < 0.001) and radiotherapy (HR: 0.66, 
95% CI: 0.56-0.79, P < 0.001). Similar results were recorded in competing-risks 
regression analyses.
CONCLUSION: In patients with an estimated LE ≥10 years at initial diagnosis, RP 
was associated with improved survival compared with radiotherapy and 
observation, regardless of disease stage.

© 2013 The Authors. BJU International © 2013 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/bju.12321
PMID: 23937636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Eur J Cancer. 2013 Nov;49(16):3396-403. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2013.06.046.
Epub  2013 Aug 9.

Left ventricular systolic function in HER2/neu negative breast cancer patients 
treated with anthracycline chemotherapy: a comparative analysis of left 
ventricular ejection fraction and myocardial strain imaging over 12 months.

Stoodley PW(1), Richards DA, Boyd A, Hui R, Harnett PR, Meikle SR, Byth K, 
Stuart K, Clarke JL, Thomas L.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Science, University of Sydney, Lidcombe, NSW, Australia. 
Electronic address: pwstoodley@gmail.com.

AIM: Anthracycline agents are undermined by their cardiotoxicity. As life 
expectancy following treatment is greatly improved, techniques that ensure early 
detection and timely management of cardiotoxicity are essential. The aim of the 
present study was to evaluate left ventricular (LV) systolic function with LV 
ejection fraction (LVEF) and two-dimensional myocardial strain up to 12 months 
after anthracycline chemotherapy, specifically in HER2/neu negative breast 
cancer patients.
METHODS: Seventy-eight consecutive anthracycline naïve breast cancer patients 
were studied before and immediately after anthracycline chemotherapy. Fifty 
HER2/neu negative patients were studied over 12 months with serial 
echocardiograms at four time points. All patients were treated with standard 
regimens containing anthracyclines.
RESULTS: Global systolic strain was significantly reduced immediately after, and 
6 months after anthracyclines (-19.0 ± 2.3% to -17.5 ± 2.3% (P<0.001) and -18.2 
± 2.2% (P=0.01) respectively). A non-uniform reduction in strain was observed 
each time with relative sparing of the LV apex. LVEF remained largely unchanged 
at both time points. Global strain normalised by 12 months in the majority of 
patients. Persistently reduced strain was observed in 16% (n=8); these patients 
had a greater reduction in strain at 6 months (≤ -17.2%), and had received 
higher cumulative anthracycline doses.
CONCLUSION: Myocardial strain imaging is more sensitive than LVEF for the early 
detection and intermediate term monitoring of LV systolic function following 
anthracycline chemotherapy in HER2/neu negative breast cancer patients, and may 
aid in the development of improved monitoring protocols.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2013.06.046
PMID: 23937961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Clin Ther. 2013 Sep;35(9):1321-36. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2013.06.016.
Epub  2013 Aug 9.

Ropinirole in patients with restless legs syndrome and baseline IRLS total 
scores ≥ 24: efficacy and tolerability in a 26-week, double-blind, 
parallel-group, placebo-controlled study followed by a 40-week open-label 
extension.

Giorgi L(1), Asgharian A, Hunter B.

Author information:
(1)Eisai, Hatfield, Hertfordshire, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: As with studies of other dopamine agonists, previously reported 
studies of ropinirole in restless legs syndrome (RLS) recruited patients with 
baseline International Restless Legs Scale (IRLS) total scores ≥ 15. The 
reported pooled analyses of clinical trials data suggest benefits of ropinirole 
in patients with IRLS total scores ≥ 24, but the effects of ropinirole have not 
been prospectively evaluated in this patient population.
OBJECTIVE: The goal of this study was to evaluate the efficacy and tolerability 
of ropinirole in patients with RLS and baseline IRLS total scores ≥ 24. This 
study was conducted in part to fulfill a postlicensing commitment between the 
maker of ropinirole and the European Union's Committee for Medicinal Products 
for Human Use.
METHODS: The protocol for this study comprised a randomized, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, parallel-group, 26-week phase during which adults with 
baseline IRLS total scores ≥ 24 received a ropinirole dose from 0.25 to 4 mg (n 
= 197) or placebo (n = 207) followed by a 40-week, open-label phase during which 
all patients (n = 269) received ropinirole. The primary efficacy end point was 
the change from baseline in the IRLS total score at week 12. Tolerability 
measures included the incidence of adverse events, augmentation, and early 
morning rebound. Due to the possibility of a treatment-by-center group 
interaction (P = 0.04) in the IRLS analysis, further efficacy exploratory 
analyses were performed to assess the impact of the interaction on the overall 
assessment of efficacy.
RESULTS: Demographic characteristics were comparable between groups (mean [SD] 
age: placebo, 56.1 [11.38] years; ropinirole, 56.5 [11.92] years; 63% female in 
both groups). All of the patients in the ropinirole group were white; 99% of the 
placebo group was white. Ropinirole was significantly better than placebo for 
change from baseline in the IRLS total score during both short- and long-term 
treatment, with mean treatment differences of -2.1 (P = 0.039) and -2.5 (P = 
0.023) for weeks 12 and 26, respectively. A statistically significant treatment 
by center group interaction was observed (P = 0.040) for the change from 
baseline in IRLS total score, indicating variation of treatment effects among 
center groups; however, all center groups showed an improvement from baseline at 
both week 12 and week 26 for the ropinirole immediate-release group and the 
placebo group. The incidences of augmentation and early morning rebound were ≤ 
4% for ropinirole. The adverse event profile of ropinirole was consistent with 
that reported in previous clinical trials.
CONCLUSIONS: In this subset of patients with RLS and a baseline IRLS total score 
≥ 24, ropinirole was effective and well tolerated compared with placebo. The 
incidence of augmentation and early morning rebound in this study was low.

© 2013 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2013.06.016
PMID: 23938061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. BMC Public Health. 2013 Aug 12;13:744. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-744.

Stores Healthy Options Project in Remote Indigenous Communities (SHOP@RIC): a 
protocol of a randomised trial promoting healthy food and beverage purchases 
through price discounts and in-store nutrition education.

Brimblecombe J(1), Ferguson M, Liberato SC, Ball K, Moodie ML, Magnus A, Miles 
E, Leach AJ, Chatfield MD, Ni Mhurchu C, O'Dea K, Bailie RS.

Author information:
(1)Menzies School of Health Research, Building 58, Royal Darwin Hospital Campus, 
Rocklands Drive, Tiwi, NT 0810, Australia. julie.brimblecombe@menzies.edu.au

BACKGROUND: Indigenous Australians suffer a disproportionate burden of 
preventable chronic disease compared to their non-Indigenous counterparts--much 
of it diet-related. Increasing fruit and vegetable intakes and reducing 
sugar-sweetened soft-drink consumption can reduce the risk of preventable 
chronic disease. There is evidence from some general population studies that 
subsidising healthier foods can modify dietary behaviour. There is little such 
evidence relating specifically to socio-economically disadvantaged populations, 
even though dietary behaviour in such populations is arguably more likely to be 
susceptible to such interventions.This study aims to assess the impact and 
cost-effectiveness of a price discount intervention with or without an in-store 
nutrition education intervention on purchases of fruit, vegetables, water and 
diet soft-drinks among remote Indigenous communities.
METHODS/DESIGN: We will utilise a randomised multiple baseline (stepped wedge) 
design involving 20 communities in remote Indigenous Australia. The study will 
be conducted in partnership with two store associations and twenty Indigenous 
store boards. Communities will be randomised to either i) a 20% price discount 
on fruit, vegetables, water and diet soft-drinks; or ii) a combined price 
discount and in-store nutrition education strategy. These interventions will be 
initiated, at one of five possible time-points, spaced two-months apart. Weekly 
point-of-sale data will be collected from each community store before, during, 
and for six months after the six-month intervention period to measure impact on 
purchasing of discounted food and drinks. Data on physical, social and economic 
factors influencing weekly store sales will be collected in order to identify 
important covariates. Intervention fidelity and mediators of behaviour change 
will also be assessed.
DISCUSSION: This study will provide original evidence on the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of price discounts with or without an in-store nutrition 
education intervention on food and drink purchasing among a socio-economically 
disadvantaged population in a real-life setting.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry: 
ACTRN12613000694718.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-744
PMCID: PMC3751924
PMID: 23938097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Am J Ophthalmol. 2013 Nov;156(5):894-901.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.ajo.2013.06.018.
 Epub 2013 Aug 12.

Anterior segment optical coherence tomography of long-term phakic 
angle-supported intraocular lenses.

Alio JL(1), Abbouda A, Peña-Garcia P.

Author information:
(1)Vissum Corporación Alicante, Alicante, Spain; Division of Ophthalmology, 
Universidad Miguel Hernández, Alicante, Spain. Electronic address: 
jlalio@vissum.com.

Comment in
    Arch Soc Esp Oftalmol. 2017 Sep;92(9):e55.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the long-term age-related anterior chamber changes by 
anterior segment optical coherence tomography (OCT) and the impact of such 
changes on the stability and behavior of angle-supported phakic intraocular 
lenses (IOLs).
DESIGN: A retrospective consecutive observational cohort study.
METHODS: A total of 23 eyes with high myopia implanted with an angle-supported 
phakic IOL between 1990 and 1996 at Vissum Corporación Oftalmológica de Alicante 
were included in the study. Patients were evaluated using OCT. Anterior chamber 
depth, anterior chamber width, crystalline lens rise, and the distance between 
phakic IOL and endothelium were measured.
RESULTS: Fifteen years after implantation, anterior chamber depth was 2.9 ± 0.3 
mm, crystalline lens rise 748.18 ± 393.13 μm, and phakic IOL-endothelium 
distance 2.1 ± 0.30 mm. The predictive model showed that 30 years after 
implantation, endothelial cell count was less than 600 cells/mm(2) in patients 
with a preoperative spherical equivalent of -25 diopters (D). Twenty years after 
implantation, the safety zone of 1.5 mm between endothelium and the lens will 
not be respected in patients with a preoperative spherical equivalent of -20 D.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study could have an important influence on the 
decision about the indication to implant angle-supported phakic IOLs in young 
patients with a long postoperative life expectancy, as age-related changes in 
the anatomy of the anterior segment may create a long-term hazard for the 
implanted eye.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajo.2013.06.018
PMID: 23938126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
