of different time horizons and reduced effectiveness over time from 
self-management.
RESULTS: In the long-term, when compared with usual care, self-management was 
more effective by 0.24 and 0.12 quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained per 
patient for men and women, respectively. The resultant incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for self-management was £1624 per QALY for men and 
£4923 per QALY for women. There was at least a 99% chance of the intervention 
being cost-effective for both sexes at a willingness to pay threshold of £20,000 
per QALY gained. These results were robust to sensitivity analyses around the 
assumptions made, provided that the effects of self-management lasted at least 
two years for men and five years for women.
CONCLUSION: Self-monitoring with self-titration of antihypertensives and 
telemonitoring of blood pressure measurements not only reduces blood pressure, 
compared with usual care, but also represents a cost-effective use of health 
care resources.

© The European Society of Cardiology 2013 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/2047487313501886
PMID: 23990660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


931. PLoS One. 2013 Aug 26;8(8):e73878. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073878. 
eCollection 2013.

FGF /FGFR signal induces trachea extension in the drosophila visual system.

Chu WC(1), Lee YM, Henry Sun Y.

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Life Sciences, National Defense Medical Center, Taipei, 
Taiwan.

The Drosophila compound eye is a large sensory organ that places a high demand 
on oxygen supplied by the tracheal system. Although the development and function 
of the Drosophila visual system has been extensively studied, the development 
and contribution of its tracheal system has not been systematically examined. To 
address this issue, we studied the tracheal patterns and developmental process 
in the Drosophila visual system. We found that the retinal tracheae are derived 
from air sacs in the head, and the ingrowth of retinal trachea begin at 
mid-pupal stage. The tracheal development has three stages. First, the air sacs 
form near the optic lobe in 42-47% of pupal development (pd). Second, in 47-52% 
pd, air sacs extend branches along the base of the retina following a 
posterior-to-anterior direction and further form the tracheal network under the 
fenestrated membrane (TNUFM). Third, the TNUFM extend fine branches into the 
retina following a proximal-to-distal direction after 60% pd. Furthermore, we 
found that the trachea extension in both retina and TNUFM are dependent on the 
FGF(Bnl)/FGFR(Btl) signaling. Our results also provided strong evidence that the 
photoreceptors are the source of the Bnl ligand to guide the trachea ingrowth. 
Our work is the first systematic study of the tracheal development in the visual 
system, and also the first study demonstrating the interactions of two 
well-studied systems: the eye and trachea.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0073878
PMCID: PMC3753266
PMID: 23991208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


932. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Sep 1;188(5):622. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201302-0357LE.

Quality-adjusted life years or composite outcomes?

Aberegg S.

Comment in
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Sep 1;188(5):622-3.

Comment on
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Feb 1;187(3):256-61.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201302-0357LE
PMID: 23992590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Sep 1;188(5):622-3. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201303-0451LE.

Reply: Quality-adjusted life years or composite outcomes?

Scales DC, Ferguson ND.

Comment on
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Feb 1;187(3):256-61.
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2013 Sep 1;188(5):622.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201303-0451LE
PMID: 23992591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Eur J Cancer. 2013 Dec;49(18):3773-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2013.08.001. Epub
2013  Aug 27.

Prospective cost-effectiveness analysis of genomic profiling in breast cancer.

Retèl VP(1), Joore MA, Drukker CA, Bueno-de-Mesquita JM, Knauer M, van Tinteren 
H, Linn SC, van Harten WH.

Author information:
(1)Netherlands Cancer Institute (NKI-AVL), Department of Psychosocial Research 
and Epidemiology, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The cost-effectiveness of the 70-gene signature (70-GS) 
(MammaPrint®) has earlier been estimated using retrospective validation data. 
Based on the prospective 5-year survival data of the 
microarRAy-prognoSTics-in-breast-cancER (RASTER) study, the aim here was to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness reflecting the actual use in clinical practice, 
including reality-based compliance rates.
METHODS: Costs and outcomes (quality-adjusted-life-years (QALYs)) were 
calculated in node-negative (N-) patients included in the RASTER study (n=427). 
Sensitivity and specificity of the 70-gene and Adjuvant! Online (AO) were based 
on 5-year distant-disease-free survival (DDFS). Subgroup analyses were performed 
for two groups for whom benefit of the 70-gene had earlier been reported: (1) 
ductal, oestrogen receptor-positive (ER+), tumour diameter 10-30 mm, grade II, 
age 40-70; (2) ductal, oestrogen receptor-positive, tumour diameter 5-30 mm, 
grade II/III and age 40-70.
RESULTS: Based on 5-year survival data, the cost-effectiveness of the 70-gene 
signature versus AO was prospectively confirmed. The total health care costs per 
patient were €26,786 for the 70-gene and €29,187 for AO. The quality adjusted 
life years yielded 12.49 and 11.88, respectively. The subgroups retrieved 
slightly higher life gains and higher costs, but all resulted finally in a 
favourable position for the 70-gene signature.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of the 70-gene signature, as judged appropriate by doctors 
and patients and supported by a low risk 70-gene signature as an oncological 
safe choice, was also found to be cost-effective.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2013.08.001
PMID: 23992641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Lancet. 2013 Nov 9;382(9904):1575-86. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61611-6.
Epub  2013 Aug 29.

Global burden of disease attributable to mental and substance use disorders: 
findings from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2010.

Whiteford HA(1), Degenhardt L, Rehm J, Baxter AJ, Ferrari AJ, Erskine HE, 
Charlson FJ, Norman RE, Flaxman AD, Johns N, Burstein R, Murray CJ, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Herston, QLD, 
Australia; Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, Wacol, QLD, Australia. 
Electronic address: h.whiteford@uq.edu.au.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Nov 9;382(9904):1540-2.
    Evid Based Ment Health. 2014 Nov;17(4):105.
    Gesundheitswesen. 2014 Apr;76(4):181.
    Lancet Psychiatry. 2021 Apr;8(4):263-264.

BACKGROUND: We used data from the Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk 
Factors Study 2010 (GBD 2010) to estimate the burden of disease attributable to 
mental and substance use disorders in terms of disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs), years of life lost to premature mortality (YLLs), and years lived with 
disability (YLDs).
METHODS: For each of the 20 mental and substance use disorders included in GBD 
2010, we systematically reviewed epidemiological data and used a Bayesian 
meta-regression tool, DisMod-MR, to model prevalence by age, sex, country, 
region, and year. We obtained disability weights from representative community 
surveys and an internet-based survey to calculate YLDs. We calculated premature 
mortality as YLLs from cause of death estimates for 1980-2010 for 20 age groups, 
both sexes, and 187 countries. We derived DALYs from the sum of YLDs and YLLs. 
We adjusted burden estimates for comorbidity and present them with 95% 
uncertainty intervals.
FINDINGS: In 2010, mental and substance use disorders accounted for 183·9 
million DALYs (95% UI 153·5 million-216·7 million), or 7·4% (6·2-8·6) of all 
DALYs worldwide. Such disorders accounted for 8·6 million YLLs (6·5 million-12·1 
million; 0·5% [0·4-0·7] of all YLLs) and 175·3 million YLDs (144·5 million-207·8 
million; 22·9% [18·6-27·2] of all YLDs). Mental and substance use disorders were 
the leading cause of YLDs worldwide. Depressive disorders accounted for 40·5% 
(31·7-49·2) of DALYs caused by mental and substance use disorders, with anxiety 
disorders accounting for 14·6% (11·2-18·4), illicit drug use disorders for 10·9% 
(8·9-13·2), alcohol use disorders for 9·6% (7·7-11·8), schizophrenia for 7·4% 
(5·0-9·8), bipolar disorder for 7·0% (4·4-10·3), pervasive developmental 
disorders for 4·2% (3·2-5·3), childhood behavioural disorders for 3·4% 
(2·2-4·7), and eating disorders for 1·2% (0·9-1·5). DALYs varied by age and sex, 
with the highest proportion of total DALYs occurring in people aged 10-29 years. 
The burden of mental and substance use disorders increased by 37·6% between 1990 
and 2010, which for most disorders was driven by population growth and ageing.
INTERPRETATION: Despite the apparently small contribution of YLLs--with deaths 
in people with mental disorders coded to the physical cause of death and suicide 
coded to the category of injuries under self-harm--our findings show the 
striking and growing challenge that these disorders pose for health systems in 
developed and developing regions. In view of the magnitude of their 
contribution, improvement in population health is only possible if countries 
make the prevention and treatment of mental and substance use disorders a public 
health priority.
FUNDING: Queensland Department of Health, National Health and Medical Research 
Council of Australia, National Drug and Alcohol Research Centre-University of 
New South Wales, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, University of Toronto, 
Technische Universität, Ontario Ministry of Health and Long Term Care, and the 
US National Institute of Alcohol Abuse and Alcoholism.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61611-6
PMID: 23993280 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Lancet. 2013 Nov 9;382(9904):1564-74. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61530-5.
Epub  2013 Aug 29.

Global burden of disease attributable to illicit drug use and dependence: 
findings from the Global Burden of Disease Study 2010.

Degenhardt L(1), Whiteford HA, Ferrari AJ, Baxter AJ, Charlson FJ, Hall WD, 
Freedman G, Burstein R, Johns N, Engell RE, Flaxman A, Murray CJ, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)National Drug and Alcohol Research Centre, University of New South Wales, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia; Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia. Electronic address: 
l.degenhardt@unsw.edu.au.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2013 Nov 9;382(9904):1540-2.

BACKGROUND: No systematic attempts have been made to estimate the global and 
regional prevalence of amphetamine, cannabis, cocaine, and opioid dependence, 
and quantify their burden. We aimed to assess the prevalence and burden of drug 
dependence, as measured in years of life lived with disability (YLDs), years of 
life lost (YLLs), and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs).
METHODS: We conducted systematic reviews of the epidemiology of drug dependence, 
and analysed results with Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors 
Study 2010 (GBD 2010) Bayesian meta-regression technique (DisMod-MR) to estimate 
population-level prevalence of dependence and use. GBD 2010 calculated new 
disability weights by use of representative community surveys and an 
internet-based survey. We combined estimates of dependence with disability 
weights to calculate prevalent YLDs, YLLs, and DALYs, and estimated YLDs, YLLs, 
and DALYs attributable to drug use as a risk factor for other health outcomes.
FINDINGS: Illicit drug dependence directly accounted for 20·0 million DALYs (95% 
UI 15·3-25·4 million) in 2010, accounting for 0·8% (0·6-1·0) of global all-cause 
DALYs. Worldwide, more people were dependent on opioids and amphetamines than 
other drugs. Opioid dependence was the largest contributor to the direct burden 
of DALYs (9·2 million, 95% UI 7·1-11·4). The proportion of all-cause DALYs 
attributed to drug dependence was 20 times higher in some regions than others, 
with an increased proportion of burden in countries with the highest incomes. 
Injecting drug use as a risk factor for HIV accounted for 2·1 million DALYs (95% 
UI 1·1-3·6 million) and as a risk factor for hepatitis C accounted for 502,000 
DALYs (286,000-891,000). Suicide as a risk of amphetamine dependence accounted 
for 854,000 DALYs (291,000-1,791,000), as a risk of opioid dependence for 
671,000 DALYs (329,000-1,730,000), and as a risk of cocaine dependence for 
324,000 DALYs (109,000-682,000). Countries with the highest rate of burden (>650 
DALYs per 100,000 population) included the USA, UK, Russia, and Australia.
INTERPRETATION: Illicit drug use is an important contributor to the global 
burden of disease. Efficient strategies to reduce disease burden of opioid 
dependence and injecting drug use, such as delivery of opioid substitution 
treatment and needle and syringe programmes, are needed to reduce this burden at 
a population scale.
FUNDING: Australian National Health and Medical Research Council, Australian 
Government Department of Health and Ageing, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)61530-5
PMID: 23993281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Clin Chest Med. 2013 Sep;34(3):417-25. doi: 10.1016/j.ccm.2013.04.006. Epub
2013  Jun 18.

Endobronchial ablative therapies.

Seaman JC(1), Musani AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences, Florida State University College of 
Medicine, Lung Associates of Sarasota, Sarasota, FL 34239, USA. 
joey.seaman@gmail.com

Endobronchial ablative therapies are used to address a variety of malignant and 
benign airway lesions. By utilizing endobronchial ablative techniques patients 
with symptomatic airway lesions may receive significant symptom improvement, 
improved quality of life, and improved life expectancy. Endobronchial ablative 
therapies include laser, electrocautery, argon plasma coagulation, cryotherapy, 
brachytherapy, and photodynamic therapy. The choice to use one therapy versus 
another depends on technical and patient specific factors. This article reviews 
indications and contraindications for each therapy, discusses details related to 
each endobronchial ablative therapy, complications of endobronchial ablative 
therapies, and briefly discusses practical consideration with endobronchial 
ablative therapies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ccm.2013.04.006
PMID: 23993813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. World Neurosurg. 2014 Dec;82(6):1264-70. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.08.026.
Epub  2013 Aug 29.

Complete resection of the cavernous sinus-indications and technique.

Couldwell WT(1), MacDonald JD(2), Taussky P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Clinical Neurosciences Center, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA. Electronic address: neuropub@hsc.utah.edu.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Clinical Neurosciences Center, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To describe surgical management with complete resection of patients 
with recurrent benign or malignant lesions involving the cavernous sinus after 
standard therapy with an emphasis on surgical indications and surgical 
technique.
METHODS: Patients who underwent complete resection of the cavernous sinus for 
recurrent or progressive tumors or progressive infection were retrospectively 
identified.
RESULTS: Of 8 patients who fit the inclusion criteria, 7 had recurrent or 
progressive tumor after previous surgery or radiation therapy or both, and 1 had 
progressive fungal infection (mucormycosis) despite medical treatment. Mean 
overall survival was 2.9 years, and 4 patients experienced complications, 
including 2 who died in the perioperative period.
CONCLUSIONS: Complete cavernous sinus resection is an option for patients with 
progressive or recurrent tumors after standard therapy. Extended survival can 
occur in some patients. The risks of surgery are considerable, and the 
underlying disease, age of the patient, and associated comorbidities should be 
considered when making the decision to operate. Surgery should be considered for 
oncologic resection of malignant tumors with limited extracranial disease or in 
patients with recurrent or progressive benign tumors. A key decision involves 
whether revascularization should be used with resection. Revascularization has 
been used in patients with inadequate vascular reserve as measured by balloon 
occlusion testing and patients with benign tumors and longer life expectancy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2013.08.026
PMID: 23994071 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Gene. 2013 Nov 15;531(1):1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.08.064. Epub 2013 Aug
28.

Characterization of a novel nm23 gene and its potential roles in gametogenesis 
in the prawn Macrobrachium rosenbergii (de Man, 1879) (Crustacea: Decapoda).

Song YN(1), Lu CY, Chen J, Qiu GF.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Exploration and Utilization of Aquatic Genetic Resources 
Certificated by Ministry of Education, College of Fisheries and Life Science, 
Shanghai Ocean University, 999 Hucheng Huan Road, Shanghai, 201306, PR China.

Nm23 is a family of genes encoding the nucleoside diphosphate (NDP) kinase, 
which functions in a wide variety of biological processes, including growth, 
development, differentiation and tumor metastasis. In this study, a novel nm23 
gene, designated as Mrnm23, was identified from the freshwater giant prawn 
Macrobrachium rosenbergii. The full-length cDNA was 776bp in length, encoding 
for a protein of 176 amino acids with one typical NDP kinase domain that 
harbored all the crucial residues for nucleotide binding and enzymatic activity. 
Like human novel nm23-H1B, the putative protein contained a unique 21-amino-acid 
NH2-terminal extension as compared to human nm23 (nm23-H1) homologs. Further, 3 
extra amino acid residues prolonged the COOH-terminus. The Mrnm23 was 
ubiquitously expressed in all tissues examined, including androgenic gland, 
gill, heart, liver, muscle, ovary, and testis. In situ hybridization to gonad 
sections indicated that the Mrnm23 mRNA was localized in the cytoplasm of 
cup-base of differentiating spermatids, in the spike of the umbrella-shaped 
spermatozoa and in the cytoplasm of the early previtellogenic oocytes, 
suggesting that the Mrnm23 has potential roles in spermiogenesis and early 
differentiation of oocyte.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.08.064
PMID: 23994193 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Bioinformatics. 2013 Nov 15;29(22):2943-5. doi:
10.1093/bioinformatics/btt511.  Epub 2013 Aug 31.

SAMstrt: statistical test for differential expression in single-cell 
transcriptome with spike-in normalization.

Katayama S(1), Töhönen V, Linnarsson S, Kere J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences and Nutrition, Karolinska Institutet, 141 83 
Huddinge, Sweden, Science for Life Laboratory, Karolinska Institutet Science 
Park, 171 21 Solna, Sweden and Department of Medical Biochemistry and 
Biophysics, Karolinska Institutet, 171 77 Stockholm, Sweden.

MOTIVATION: Recent transcriptome studies have revealed that total transcript 
numbers vary by cell type and condition; therefore, the statistical assumptions 
for single-cell transcriptome studies must be revisited. SAMstrt is an extension 
code for SAMseq, which is a statistical method for differential expression, to 
enable spike-in normalization and statistical testing based on the estimated 
absolute number of transcripts per cell for single-cell RNA-seq methods.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: SAMstrt is implemented on R and available in 
github (https://github.com/shka/R-SAMstrt).
CONTACT: shintaro.katayama@ki.se

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btt511
PMCID: PMC3810855
PMID: 23995393 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Oct;31(10):841-52. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0083-0.

Ruxolitinib for the treatment of myelofibrosis: a NICE single technology 
appraisal.

Wade R(1), Rose M, Neilson AR, Stirk L, Rodriguez-Lopez R, Bowen D, Craig D, 
Woolacott N.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Reviews and Dissemination (CRD), University of York, York YO10 
5DD, UK, ros.wade@york.ac.uk.

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer of ruxolitinib (Novartis) to submit clinical and cost-effectiveness 
evidence for ruxolitinib within its licensed indication (the treatment of 
disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adult patients with myelofibrosis), 
according to the Institute's Single Technology Appraisal process. The Centre for 
Reviews and Dissemination and Centre for Health Economics at the University of 
York were commissioned to act as the independent Evidence Review Group (ERG). 
This article provides a description of the company submission, the ERG review 
and the resulting NICE guidance TA289 issued in June 2013. The ERG critically 
reviewed the evidence presented in the manufacturer's submission and identified 
areas requiring clarification, for which the manufacturer provided additional 
evidence. The main clinical effectiveness data were derived from two phase III, 
multicentre, randomised controlled trials (RCTs): Controlled myelofibrosis study 
with oral JAK inhibitor treatment (COMFORT)-II compared ruxolitinib with best 
available therapy (BAT), and COMFORT-I compared ruxolitinib with placebo. These 
RCTs demonstrated that ruxolitinib confers significant benefits in terms of 
spleen size reduction and improvement in symptom burden. In the COMFORT-II 
trial, a reduction in spleen volume of ≥35 % was achieved in 28 % of 
ruxolitinib-treated patients compared with 0 % of patients in the BAT group 
(p < 0.001) at 48 weeks, and there was a mean change in spleen volume of -30.1 
versus +7.3 % (p < 0.001). Ruxolitinib also provided significant improvements in 
myelofibrosis-associated symptoms and health-related quality-of-life compared 
with BAT and placebo. The ERG concluded that ruxolitinib appears to reduce 
splenomegaly and its associated symptoms, but that there was considerable 
uncertainty surrounding the manufacturer's cost-effectiveness estimates due to 
limitations in the manufacturer's model. The manufacturer's model did not allow 
for disease progression, did not accurately capture symptomatic relief, had 
several implausible or unjustified assumptions, and there were several parameter 
choices that the ERG found sub-optimal. ERG sensitivity analyses found that 
nearly all plausible adjustments to the model reduced the cost effectiveness of 
ruxolitinib. It is very likely that the base-case incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of £73,980/quality-adjusted life-year presented by the manufacturer 
represents a best-case scenario. The NICE Appraisal Committee concluded that 
ruxolitinib was clinically effective, but could not be considered a cost 
effective use of National Health Service (NHS) resources for treating 
disease-related splenomegaly or symptoms in adults with myelofibrosis. 
Ruxolitinib is not recommended for the treatment of disease-related splenomegaly 
or symptoms in adult patients with primary myelofibrosis (also known as chronic 
idiopathic myelofibrosis), post-polycythaemia vera myelofibrosis and 
post-essential thrombocythaemia myelofibrosis in NICE TA289.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0083-0
PMID: 23996108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Obes Surg. 2013 Nov;23(11):1922-33. doi: 10.1007/s11695-013-1070-4.

Weight recidivism post-bariatric surgery: a systematic review.

Karmali S(1), Brar B, Shi X, Sharma AM, de Gara C, Birch DW.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Advancement of Minimally Invasive Surgery (CAMIS), Royal 
Alexandra Hospital, Room 405 CSC, 10240 Kingsway Ave, Edmonton, AB, T5H 3 V9, 
Canada, shahzeer@ualberta.ca.

Obesity is considered a worldwide health problem of epidemic proportions. 
Bariatric surgery remains the most effective treatment for patients with severe 
obesity, resulting in improved obesity-related co-morbidities and increased 
overall life expectancy. However, weight recidivism has been observed in a 
subset of patients post-bariatric surgery. Weight recidivism has significant 
medical, societal and economic ramifications. Unfortunately, there is a very 
limited understanding of how to predict which bariatric surgical patients are 
more likely to regain weight following surgery and how to appropriately treat 
patients who have regained weight. The objective of this paper is to 
systematically review the existing literature to assess the incidence and 
causative factors associated with weight regain following bariatric surgery. An 
electronic literature search was performed of the Medline, Embase and Cochrane 
library databases along with the PubMed US national library from January 1950 to 
December 2012 to identify relevant articles. Following an initial screen of 
2,204 titles, 1,437 abstracts were reviewed and 1,421 met exclusion criteria. 
Sixteen studies were included in this analysis: seven case series, five surveys 
and four non-randomized controlled trials, with a total of 4,864 patients for 
analysis. Weight regain in these patients appeared to be multi-factorial and 
overlapping. Aetiologies were categorized as patient specific (psychiatric, 
physical inactivity, endocrinopathies/metabolic and dietary non-compliance) and 
operation specific. Weight regain following bariatric surgery varies according 
to duration of follow-up and the bariatric surgical procedure performed. The 
underlying causes leading to weight regain are multi-factorial and related to 
patient- and procedure-specific factors. Addressing post-surgical weight regain 
requires a systematic approach to patient assessment focusing on contributory 
dietary, psychologic, medical and surgical factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s11695-013-1070-4
PMID: 23996349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Orv Hetil. 2013 Sep 8;154(36):1426-34. doi: 10.1556/OH.2013.29699.

[The impact of endometriosis on the quality of life in Hungary].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Bokor A(1), Koszorús E, Brodszky V, D'Hooghe T; WERF EndoCost Consortium; Rigó 
J.

Collaborators: D'Hooghe T, Dunselman G, Dirksen C, Hummelshoj L, Brandes I, 
Canis M, Colombo GL, DeLeire T, Falcone T, Graham B, Halis G, Horne A, Kanj O, 
Kjer JJ, Kristensen J, Lebovic D, Mueller M, Vigano P, Wullschleger M, Simoens 
S.

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar I. Szülészeti és 
Nőgyógyászati Klinika Budapest Baross u. 27. 1088.

INTRODUCTION: Endometriosis is one of the most common gynaecological diseases 
affecting 70 million women worldwide.
AIM: The aims of this study were to determinate the diagnostic delay of 
endometriosis, to assess the effectiveness of surgical and combined therapy and 
to analyse the quality of life of women suffering from this disease.
METHOD: Of the 240 patients with endometriosis enrolled in the study, 84 
patients filled in a prospective as well as a retrospective questionnaire.
RESULTS: There was a 3.9 year delay from the onset of symptoms to the definitive 
diagnosis. Before therapy, 89% of the patients reported endometriosis related 
pain, while after therapy only 28% in the prospectively investigated months (p = 
0.025). There was no significant difference between the outcome of surgical 
treatment alone and combined operative and medical therapy (p = 0.85). Reduced 
productivity at work was present in 47% of the patients and 40% of the patients 
reported impaired personal relationship, too. Endometriosis-associated symptoms 
generated 0.147 quality-adjusted life years per woman.
CONCLUSIONS: This study is the first ever prospective survey to investigate the 
impact of endometriosis on the quality of life in Hungary. The results indicated 
a long diagnostic delay. Both surgical and combined therapies proved to be 
efficient. Endometriosis impaired health-related quality of life, but adequate 
therapy attenuated the severity of symptoms.

Publisher: Bevezetés: Az endometriosis az egyik leggyakoribb nőgyógyászati 
betegség, több mint 70 millió felnőtt és serdülő nőt érint világszerte. 
Célkitűzés: A szerzők az endometriosis diagnosztikus késedelmi idejének 
meghatározását, a sebészi, illetve kombinált műtéti kezelés hatékonyságának 
vizsgálatát, valamint a betegek életminőségének felmérését tűzték ki célul. 
Módszer: A beválogatási kritériumoknak megfelelő 240, endometriosisban szenvedő 
nőből 84 vett részt a retrospektív és prospektív kérdőíves felmérésben. 
Eredmények: A tünetek kezdetétől a diagnózisig átlagosan 3,9 év telt el. A 
tünetek fellépésekor a betegek 89%-a, a kezelést követő prospektíven vizsgált 
hónapokban 28%-a panaszkodott fájdalomról (p = 0,025). A sebészi kezelés és a 
műtéti terápiával kombinált konzervatív kezelés hatékonysága között nem találtak 
szignifikáns különbséget (p = 0,85). A munkahelyi teljesítmény csökkenéséről a 
betegek 47%-a, míg a személyes kapcsolatok kedvezőtlen alakulásáról a 
vizsgálatban részt vevők 40%-a számolt be. Az életminőségre standardizált 
életévveszteség egy év alatt 0,147 volt. Következtetések: Jelen felmérés az első 
hazai prospektív, az endometriosis életminőségre gyakorolt hatását vizsgáló 
tanulmány. A betegségre hosszú diagnosztikus késés jellemző. Az endometriosis 
jelentősen rontja az életminőséget, de adekvát kezeléssel a panaszok 
csökkenthetők. Orv. Hetil., 2013, 154, 1426–1434.

Publisher: Bevezetés: Az endometriosis az egyik leggyakoribb nőgyógyászati 
betegség, több mint 70 millió felnőtt és serdülő nőt érint világszerte. 
Célkitűzés: A szerzők az endometriosis diagnosztikus késedelmi idejének 
meghatározását, a sebészi, illetve kombinált műtéti kezelés hatékonyságának 
vizsgálatát, valamint a betegek életminőségének felmérését tűzték ki célul. 
Módszer: A beválogatási kritériumoknak megfelelő 240, endometriosisban szenvedő 
nőből 84 vett részt a retrospektív és prospektív kérdőíves felmérésben. 
Eredmények: A tünetek kezdetétől a diagnózisig átlagosan 3,9 év telt el. A 
tünetek fellépésekor a betegek 89%-a, a kezelést követő prospektíven vizsgált 
hónapokban 28%-a panaszkodott fájdalomról (p = 0,025). A sebészi kezelés és a 
műtéti terápiával kombinált konzervatív kezelés hatékonysága között nem találtak 
szignifikáns különbséget (p = 0,85). A munkahelyi teljesítmény csökkenéséről a 
betegek 47%-a, míg a személyes kapcsolatok kedvezőtlen alakulásáról a 
vizsgálatban részt vevők 40%-a számolt be. Az életminőségre standardizált 
életévveszteség egy év alatt 0,147 volt. Következtetések: Jelen felmérés az első 
hazai prospektív, az endometriosis életminőségre gyakorolt hatását vizsgáló 
tanulmány. A betegségre hosszú diagnosztikus késés jellemző. Az endometriosis 
jelentősen rontja az életminőséget, de adekvát kezeléssel a panaszok 
csökkenthetők. Orv. Hetil., 2013, 154, 1426–1434.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2013.29699
PMID: 23996924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2013 Oct;238(10):1118-26. doi:
10.1177/1535370213503275.  Epub 2013 Aug 30.

Stem cells of the lower limb: their role and potential in management of critical 
limb ischemia.

Hart CA(1), Tsui J, Khanna A, Abraham DJ, Baker DM.

Author information:
(1)Royal Free Vascular Unit, Division of Surgery & Interventional Science, UCL, 
Royal Free Campus, London NW3 2QG, UK.

Peripheral arterial occlusive disease (PAOD) contributes to decreased exercise 
tolerance, poor balance, impaired proprioception, muscle atrophy and weakness, 
with advanced cases resulting in critical limb ischemia (CLI) where the 
viability of the limb is threatened. Patients with a diagnosis of CLI have a 
poor life expectancy due to concomitant cardio and cerebrovascular diseases. The 
current treatment options to avoid major amputation by re-establishing a blood 
supply to the limb generally have poor outcomes. Human skeletal muscle contains 
both multipotent stem cells and progenitor cells and thus has a capacity for 
regeneration. Phase I and II studies involving transplantation of bone 
marrow-derived progenitor cells into CLI limbs show positive effects on wound 
healing and angiogenesis; the increase in quiescent satellite cell numbers 
observed in CLI muscle may also provide a sufficient in vivo source of resident 
stem cells. These indigenous cells have been shown to be capable of forming 
multiple mesodermal cell lineages aiding the repair and regeneration of 
chronically ischemic muscle. They may also serve as a repository for autologous 
transplantation. The behavior and responses of the stem cell population in CLI 
is poorly understood and this review tries to elucidate the potential of these 
cells and their future role in the management of CLI.

DOI: 10.1177/1535370213503275
PMID: 23996960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Rheumatol. 2013 Sep;40(9):1469-74. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.130736.

Documenting the value of care for rheumatoid arthritis, analogous to 
hypertension, diabetes, and hyperlipidemia: is control of individual patient 
self-report measures of global estimate and physical function more valuable than 
laboratory tests, radiographs, indices, or remission criteria?

Pincus T, Castrejón I, Yazici Y.

Comment on
    J Rheumatol. 2013 Sep;40(9):1479-86.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.130736
PMID: 23996992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. J Am Soc Echocardiogr. 2013 Sep;26(9):1013-32. doi:
10.1016/j.echo.2013.07.005.

Expert consensus for multi-modality imaging evaluation of cardiovascular 
complications of radiotherapy in adults: a report from the European Association 
of Cardiovascular Imaging and the American Society of Echocardiography.

Lancellotti P(1), Nkomo VT, Badano LP, Bergler-Klein J, Bogaert J, Davin L, 
Cosyns B, Coucke P, Dulgheru R, Edvardsen T, Gaemperli O, Galderisi M, Griffin 
B, Heidenreich PA, Nieman K, Plana JC, Port SC, Scherrer-Crosbie M, Schwartz RG, 
Sebag IA, Voigt JU, Wann S, Yang PC; European Society of Cardiology Working 
Groups on Nuclear Cardiology and Cardiac Computed Tomography and Cardiovascular 
Magnetic Resonance; American Society of Nuclear Cardiology, Society for 
Cardiovascular Magnetic Resonance, and Society of Cardiovascular Computed 
Tomography.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, GIGA Cardiovascular Sciences, Heart Valve Clinic, 
University of Liège Hospital, CHU du Sart-Tilman, Liège 4000, Belgium. 
plancellotti@chu.ulg.ac.be

Erratum in
    J Am Soc Echocardiogr. 2013 Nov;26(11):1305. Bergler, Jutta [corrected to 
Bergler-Klein, Jutta].

Cardiac toxicity is one of the most concerning side effects of anti-cancer 
therapy. The gain in life expectancy obtained with anti-cancer therapy can be 
compromised by increased morbidity and mortality associated with its cardiac 
complications. While radiosensitivity of the heart was initially recognized only 
in the early 1970s, the heart is regarded in the current era as one of the most 
critical dose-limiting organs in radiotherapy. Several clinical studies have 
identified adverse clinical consequences of radiation-induced heart disease 
(RIHD) on the outcome of long-term cancer survivors. A comprehensive review of 
potential cardiac complications related to radiotherapy is warranted. An 
evidence-based review of several imaging approaches used to detect, evaluate, 
and monitor RIHD is discussed. Recommendations for the early identification and 
monitoring of cardiovascular complications of radiotherapy by cardiac imaging 
are also proposed.

Copyright © 2013 The Authors. Published by Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.echo.2013.07.005
PMID: 23998694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Spinal Cord. 2013 Dec;51(12):938-9. doi: 10.1038/sc.2013.95. Epub 2013 Sep
3.

Inconsistencies in methodologies of calculating expectation of life.

Walsh J(1), Middleton J.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Studies Unit, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.

Comment on
    Spinal Cord. 2012 Nov;50(11):803-11.
    Spinal Cord. 2013 Dec;51(12):937.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.2013.95
PMID: 23999112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2013 Jun;16(2):55-65.

Cost-effectiveness of alternative treatments for depression in low-income women.

Beil H(1), Beeber LS, Schwartz TA, Lewis G.

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC 27599-7590, USA. 
hbeil@email.unc.edu

BACKGROUND: Low-income mothers are more likely to experience depressive symptoms 
than their higher income counterparts, but they are less likely to receive 
treatment. One way to overcome common barriers to care for low-income women is 
to do therapy in the mother's home.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: The objective of this study was to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of in-home interpersonal therapy (IPT) to two standard 
therapies for depression treatment: office based cognitive behavioral therapy 
(CBT) and psychotropic medication.
METHODS: This cost utility analysis used a Markov model with a 3-year time 
horizon to compare the cost-effectiveness of the alternate therapies from the 
public payer perspective. We followed a hypothetical cohort of 1,000 women age 
19 to 35 years with depressive symptoms who had an income level at or below 200% 
of the federal poverty level. Costs were based on the number of women who 
completed the therapy. We used data from published literature on clinical trials 
with low-income minority women to determine the completion rates, duration, and 
effectiveness of each type of therapy. Additionally, costs for in-home IPT were 
calculated from unpublished trial data. Costs were determined using 2011 North 
Carolina Medicaid reimbursement rates; utility weights were taken from published 
literature. The endpoint was the total outpatient medical cost (therapy and 
outpatient medical visits). The study outcomes were depression free days (DFD), 
which were translated into quality of adjusted life years (QALY). We calculated 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of each therapy based on the 
number of QALYs gained. We conducted deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses to determine how robust the results were to uncertainty in the 
parameters.
RESULTS: Treating patients with IPT resulted in an ICER of USD 13,479/QALY and 
USD 29,309/QALY as compared to CBT and medications, respectively. The results 
were most sensitive to the efficacy of IPT. Simulations showed that, with a 
threshold of USD 50,000/QALY, IPT was cost-effective 95% and 78% of the time as 
compared to CBT and medications, respectively. If policy makers were willing to 
pay USD 50,000 per QALY, IPT had a 0.586 probability of being the cost-effective 
option relative to medication and in-office CBT.
DISCUSSION: Due to higher completion rates, in-home IPT cost more but resulted 
in more QALYs gained than the other therapies. Our results indicated that 
in-home IPT was cost-effective as compared to office-based CBT and at least as 
cost-effective as medication therapy. The analysis was based on limited data 
because there have been few randomized, controlled studies on treatments for 
depression in low-income women, however; additional studies are needed to 
improve the accuracy of the model.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICY: In coming years, the number of low-income women 
covered by public insurance should increase due to the Affordable Care Act. 
Given the high prevalence of depression in this population, it will be important 
to consider the value of potential resources spent on depression treatments. 
This study found that both in-home IPT and medication could be cost-effective 
treatments for depression. The results of this study support public payers 
reimbursing for in-home services.

PMID: 23999203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Age Ageing. 2013 Nov;42(6):770-5. doi: 10.1093/ageing/aft132. Epub 2013 Sep
1.

Continuing cancer screening later in life: attitudes and intentions among older 
adults in England.

von Wagner C(1), Macedo A, Campbell C, Simon AE, Wardle J, Hammersley V, Weller 
D, Waller J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, Health Behaviour Research 
Centre, University College London, Gower Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2014 May;191(5):1291.

BACKGROUND: the rise in life expectancy, together with age-related increase in 
the incidence of most cancers, has led to mounting interest in cancer screening 
in older people. In England, routine invitations stop and an 'opt-in' 
(individual request) process is available from ages 71 to 76 years for breast 
and colorectal screening respectively. Little is known about public attitudes 
towards age-stoppage policy.
OBJECTIVE: this study examined public attitudes to current stoppage policy, 
information preferences and intentions to request screening beyond the age of 
routine invitations.
SAMPLE: participants (n = 927; age 60-74 years) were recruited as part of a TNS 
Research International survey and took part in home-based, computer-assisted 
interviews.
METHODS: measures included: (i) attitudes towards current stoppage policy, (ii) 
preference for communications about screening after the end of the routine 
invitation period and (iii) intention to opt-in.
RESULTS: the majority of respondents (78%) did not agree with age-based stoppage 
policies. Most (83%) wanted a strong recommendation to opt-in after this age, 
although the number who thought they would follow such a recommendation was much 
lower (27%). A majority of participants (54%) thought information on screening 
at older ages should come from their general practitioner (GP).
CONCLUSION: this survey indicates that older people in England wish to continue 
to be actively invited for cancer screening, although only a minority think that 
they would ultimately take up the offer. Primary care may play a role in 
negotiating a shared decision that is based on individual circumstances.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/aft132
PMCID: PMC3942134
PMID: 23999536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Health Place. 2013 Nov;24:1-10. doi: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2013.08.002. Epub
 2013 Aug 14.

Healthy life expectancy changes in Thailand, 2002-2007.

Karcharnubarn R(1), Rees P, Gould M.

Author information:
(1)College of Population Studies, Chulalongkorn University, Visid Prachuabmoh 
Building, Bangkok 10330, Thailand. Electronic address: Rukchanok.K@chula.ac.th.

We investigate links between increasing longevity and health status in Thailand. 
Using data from 2002 and 2007 national surveys of the elderly, healthy life 
expectancies at older ages were estimated. Change depended on health indicator, 
gender and age. Self-reported health and self-care disability showed expansion 
of morbidity. Mobility disability change indicated compression but a wording 
change means this may be an artefact. We compare these findings with the 1990 
and 2010 results of the Global Burden of Disease study. Using HLE based on 
disease prevalence, the GBD found that Thailand experienced small longevity 
gains and morbidity compression. Our findings suggest these results should be 
treated with caution, as, since 2000, Thailand has introduced universal health 
care.

© 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthplace.2013.08.002
PMID: 23999577 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Pediatrics. 2013 Oct;132(4):631-8. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-0339. Epub 2013
Sep 2.

Pediatric mortality in males versus females in the United States, 1999-2008.

Balsara SL(1), Faerber JA, Spinner NB, Feudtner C.

Author information:
(1)CHOP North-Room 1523, The Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, 34th and Civic 
Center Blvd, Philadelphia, PA 10194. feudtner@email.chop.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate whether differences between pediatric male and female 
mortality are due to differences in specific age ranges, specific disease 
categories, or differences in the risk of developing specific conditions versus 
the risk of dying once having developed the condition.
METHODS: Using 1999-2008 mortality data for all deaths of individuals <20 years 
of age from the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's WONDER database, we 
calculated male-to-female relative risks (RRs), standardized to the 2000 US 
Census, by age and International Classification of Diseases, 10th revision 
(ICD-10), chapters. By using the Centers for Disease Control and Prevention's 
record of linked birth and infant death records between 1999 and 2007, we also 
calculated male-to-female RRs stratified by gestational age; and by using 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results cancer registries for 1999-2008, we 
calculated incidence and mortality RRs for the 7 leading types of cancer.
RESULTS: Males experience higher mortality rates in all age groups from birth to 
age 20 years (RR: 1.44; 95% confidence interval [CI]: 1.44-1.45) and among 
infant deaths in nearly all weekly gestational age strata (RR: 1.12; 95% CI: 
1.11-1.12). Stratified by ICD-10 major disease categories, males experience 
higher mortality rates in 17 of 19 categories. For the 7 types of pediatric 
cancers, the overall pattern was similarly greater male incidence (RR: 1.13; 95% 
CI: 1.12-1.14), fatality rate (RR: 1.10; 95% CI: 1.07-1.13), and overall 
mortality (RR: 1.21; 1.18-1.25).
CONCLUSIONS: Under 20 years of age, males die more than females from a wide 
array of underlying conditions. The potential genetic and hormonal mechanisms 
for the mortality difference between males and females warrant investigation.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-0339
PMID: 23999952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Arq Bras Cir Dig. 2013 Jun;26(2):136-9. doi:
10.1590/s0102-67202013000200014.

[Liver ressection in elderly patients].

[Article in Portuguese]

Laporte GA(1), Kalil AN.

Author information:
(1)Trabalho realizado no Programa de Pós- Graduação de Ciências da Saúde da 
Universidade Federal de Ciências da Saúde de Porto Alegre, Porto Alegre, RS, 
Brasil. laportegustavo@gmail.com

INTRODUCTION: Life expectancy of the population has increased in recent years as 
a result of human development, leading to an increase in the incidence of 
primary and secondary neoplasms of the liver. Medicine has been following this 
process, but there is still fear of aggressive surgical treatment in elderly 
patients, especially concerning to liver surgery.
AIM: To analyze the influence of age on the morbidity and mortality of patients 
undergoing liver resection.
METHOD: Literature review of scientific articles available in PubMed, Scielo and 
Bireme database with "elderly", "hepatectomy," "hepatic resection," 
"postoperative complications", "morbidity", "mortality". It was selected studies 
that compared the results of hepatectomy between groups of young and elderly 
patients.
CONCLUSION: Age is not a predisposing factor for the worsening of results in 
liver resection.

DOI: 10.1590/s0102-67202013000200014
PMID: 24000028 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Oct;31(10):919-31. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0080-3.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of triple therapy with protease inhibitors in 
treatment-naive hepatitis C patients.

Blázquez-Pérez A(1), San Miguel R, Mar J.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicamentos de Uso Humano, Agencia Española de Medicamentos 
y Productos Sanitarios, C/Campezo 1. Edificio 8, Planta 2 Oeste E, 28022, 
Madrid, Spain, ablazquez@aemps.es.

BACKGROUND: Chronic hepatitis C is the leading cause of chronic liver disease, 
representing a significant burden in terms of morbidity, mortality and costs. A 
new scenario of therapy for hepatitis C virus (HCV) genotype 1 infection is 
being established with the approval of two effective HCV protease inhibitors 
(PIs) in combination with the standard of care (SOC), peginterferon and 
ribavirin.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to estimate the cost effectiveness of combination 
therapy with new PIs (boceprevir and telaprevir) plus peginterferon and 
ribavirin versus SOC in treatment-naive patients with HCV genotype 1 according 
to data obtained from clinical trials (CTs).
METHODS: A Markov model simulating chronic HCV progression was used to estimate 
disease treatment costs and effects over patients' lifetimes, in the Spanish 
national public healthcare system. The target population was treatment-naive 
patients with chronic HCV genotype 1, demographic characteristics for whom were 
obtained from the published pivotal CTs SPRINT and ADVANCE. Three options were 
analysed for each PI based on results from the two CTs: universal triple 
therapy, interleukin (IL)-28B-guided therapy and dual therapy with peginterferon 
and ribavirin. A univariate sensitivity analysis was performed to evaluate the 
uncertainty of certain parameters: age at start of treatment, transition 
probabilities, drug costs, CT efficacy results and a higher hazard ratio for 
all-cause mortality for patients with chronic HCV. Probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were also carried out.
RESULTS: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of €2012 per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained were used as outcome measures. 
According to the base-case analysis, using dual therapy as the comparator, the 
alternative IL28B-guided therapy presents a more favorable ICER (€18,079/QALY 
for boceprevir and €25,914/QALY for telaprevir) than the universal triple 
therapy option (€27,594/QALY for boceprevir and €33,751/QALY for telaprevir), 
with an ICER clearly below the efficiency threshold for medical interventions in 
the Spanish setting. Sensitivity analysis showed that age at the beginning of 
treatment was an important factor that influenced the ICER. A potential 
reduction in PI costs would also clearly improve the ICER, and transition 
probabilities influenced the results, but to a lesser extent. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses showed that 95 % of the simulations presented an ICER below 
€40,000/QALY. Post hoc estimations of sustained virological responses of the 
IL28B-guided therapeutic option represented a limitation of the study.
CONCLUSION: The therapeutic options analysed for the base-case cohort can be 
considered cost-effective interventions for the Spanish healthcare framework. 
Sensitivity analysis estimated an acceptability threshold of the IL28B-guided 
strategy of patients younger than 60 years.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0080-3
PMID: 24000086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Lett Appl Microbiol. 2014 Jan;58(1):1-7. doi: 10.1111/lam.12152. Epub 2013
Sep  30.

Controlling Vibrio vulnificus and spoilage bacteria in fresh shucked oysters 
using natural antimicrobials.

Mahmoud BS(1).

Author information:
(1)Experimental Seafood Processing Laboratory, Coastal Research & Extension 
Center, Mississippi State University, Pascagoula, MS, USA.

This study evaluated the efficacy of grape seed extract (GE), citric acid (CA) 
and lactic acid (LA) on the inactivation of Vibrio vulnificus and inherent 
microflora in fresh shucked oysters. The minimum inhibitory concentration (MIC) 
of GE, CA or LA against V. vulnificus was determined. Furthermore, the shucked 
oysters were artificially inoculated with V. vulnificus. The inoculated shucked 
oysters (25 g) were then dipped in 250 ml GE, CA or LA solutions for 10 min. The 
population of V. vulnificus in shucked oysters was determined. The effects of 
the treatments with GE, CA or LA solutions on the inherent microbiota in fresh 
shucked oysters during storage at 5°C for 20 days were also studied. The MICs of 
GE, CA or LA against V. vulnificus were 10.0, 5.0 or 1.0 mg ml(-1), 
respectively. The concentrations of 500, 300 or 150 mg ml(-1) GE, CA or LA 
solutions were needed to reduce the population of V. vulnificus to below the 
detection level (1.0 log g(-1)). Treatment with 500, 300, 150 mg ml(-1) GE, CA 
or LA significantly reduced the initial inherent microbiota in fresh shucked 
oysters, and inherent levels were significantly (P < 0.05) lower than the 
control sample throughout refrigerated storage for 20 days.
SIGNIFICANCE AND IMPACT OF THE STUDY: Oysters filter large volume of seawater 
during their feeding activities that concentrate bacteria such as Vibrio 
vulnificus in their body. The presence of V. vulnificus in oysters has a serious 
impact on public health and international trade. There is increasing concern 
over the use of chemical preservatives. Furthermore, the food industry is 
looking for new natural preservation methods. This study indicated that lactic 
acid and citric acid wash solutions could offer an inexpensive, natural and 
strong approach to control V. vulnificus and spoilage bacteria in fresh shucked 
