
Aerospace systems are expected to remain in service well beyond their designed 
life. Consequently, maintenance is an important issue. A novel method of 
implementing artificial neural networks and acoustic emission sensors to form a 
structural health monitoring (SHM) system for aerospace inspection routines was 
the focus of this research. Simple structural elements, consisting of flat 
aluminum plates of AL 2024-T3, were subjected to increasing static tensile 
loading. As the loading increased, designed cracks extended in length, releasing 
strain waves in the process. Strain wave signals, measured by acoustic emission 
sensors, were further analyzed in post-processing by artificial neural networks 
(ANN). Several experiments were performed to determine the severity and location 
of the crack extensions in the structure. ANNs were trained on a portion of the 
data acquired by the sensors and the ANNs were then validated with the remaining 
data. The combination of a system of acoustic emission sensors, and an ANN could 
determine crack extension accurately. The difference between predicted and 
actual crack extensions was determined to be between 0.004 in. and 0.015 in. 
with 95% confidence. These ANNs, coupled with acoustic emission sensors, showed 
promise for the creation of an SHM system for aerospace systems.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/823603
PMCID: PMC3760098
PMID: 24023536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 2;8(9):e72642. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072642.
eCollection  2013.

Long-term effects of statin treatment in elderly people: extended follow-up of 
the PROspective Study of Pravastatin in the Elderly at Risk (PROSPER).

Lloyd SM(1), Stott DJ, de Craen AJ, Kearney PM, Sattar N, Perry I, Packard CJ, 
Briggs A, Marchbank L, Comber H, Jukema JW, Westendorp RG, Trompet S, Buckley 
BM, Ford I.

Author information:
(1)Robertson Centre for Biostatistics, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: The PROspective Study of Pravastatin in the Elderly at Risk 
(PROSPER), a placebo-controlled trial of pravastatin, demonstrated a 19% 
reduction in coronary outcomes (p=0.006) after a mean of 3.2 years, with no 
impact on stroke outcomes or all-cause mortality. However, there was a 
suggestion of increased cancer risk. Our aim is to determine the long-term 
benefits and safety of pravastatin treatment in older people using post-trial 
follow-up of the PROSPER participants.
METHODS: 5,804 (2,520 Scottish) men and women aged 70-82 years with either 
pre-existing vascular disease or increased risk of such disease because of 
smoking, hypertension or diabetes, were randomised to 40 mg pravastatin or 
matching placebo. Using record linkage to routinely collected health records, 
all participants (full cohort) were linked to death and cancer registries, and 
the Scottish cohort additionally to hospital admissions, to provide composite 
fatal/non-fatal cardiovascular outcomes (total mean follow-up 8.6 years).
RESULTS: Pravastatin treatment for 3.2 years reduced CHD death in the full 
cohort, hazard ratio (HR) 0.80, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.68-0.95, p=0.0091 
and fatal coronary events or coronary hospitalisations in the Scottish cohort 
(HR 0.81, 95% CI 0.69-0.95, p=0.0081) over 8.6 years. There was no reduction in 
stroke or all-cause mortality. Cancer risk was not increased in the full cohort 
(HR 1.08, 95% CI 0.96-1.21, p=0.22).
CONCLUSIONS: Pravastatin treatment of elderly high-risk subjects for 3.2 years 
provided long-term protection against CHD events and CHD mortality. However, 
this was not associated with any increase in life expectancy, possibly due to 
competing mortality with deaths from other causes. There was no evidence of 
long-term increased risk of cancer.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISRCTN40976937.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0072642
PMCID: PMC3759378
PMID: 24023757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have read the 
journal's policy and have the following conflicts: DS has received 
funding/support from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Astra Zeneca, Merck Serono and 
Fresenius, honoraria/consultancy from Bristol-Myers Squibb, Astra Zeneca and 
Nutricia and support for conference attendance from Bristol Myers-Squibb and 
Nutricia. JJ has received grants from and was a speaker on (CME accredited) 
meetings sponsored by Astellas, Astra Zeneca, Bayer, Biotronik, Boston 
Scientific, Daiichi Sankyo, Lilly, Genzyme, Merck-Shering-Plough, Pfizer, Orbus 
Neich, Novartis, Roche, Servier, Sanofi Aventis, the Netherlands Heart 
Foundation, the Interuniversity Cardiology Institute of the Netherlands, and the 
European Community Framework KP7 Programme. IF has received research funding 
from Pfizer. All other authors do not report any conflicts of interest. This 
does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing 
data and materials.


8. Case Rep Endocrinol. 2013;2013:843795. doi: 10.1155/2013/843795. Epub 2013 Aug
 19.

Optic disc swelling and vision loss in a patient with cystic fibrosis and 
diabetes.

Iosfina I(1), Chuo JY, Godinho DV, Wilcox PG, Kreisman SH, Quon BS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada.

Advances in cystic fibrosis management have significantly improved life 
expectancy in these patients. However, we are now faced with a growing number of 
long-term extrapulmonary consequences of this disease, including ophthalmic 
complications of diabetes in cystic fibrosis patients. We present a unique 
report that documents a case of diabetic papillopathy progressing to 
nonarteritic anterior ischemic optic neuropathy resulting in vision loss in a 
patient with CF and diabetes. It highlights the potentially devastating 
consequences of longstanding diabetes in CF patients.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/843795
PMCID: PMC3760298
PMID: 24024047


9. Neurointervention. 2013 Sep;8(2):73-9. doi: 10.5469/neuroint.2013.8.2.73. Epub
 2013 Aug 29.

Clinical and radiologic results of endovascular coil embolization for cerebral 
aneurysm in young patients.

Park HS(1), Kwon SC, Shin SH, Park ES, Sim HB, Lyo IU.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Ulsan University Hospital, University of Ulsan 
College of Medicine, Ulsan, Korea.

PURPOSE: This study is an overview of the clinical and radiologic outcomes of 
endovascular coil embolization for cerebral aneurysm in patients aged 40 years 
and younger.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between January 2008 and June 2011, 218 aneurysms were 
treated using endovascular coil embolization and followed up with cerebral 
angiography at least six months later. Twenty-one aneurysms occurred in patients 
aged 40 years and younger, while 197 occurred in 179 patients older than 40 
years. The clinical and radiologic results were retrospectively analyzed and 
compared between the two groups using the modified Rankin scale scores and the 
modified Raymond scale.
RESULTS: Follow-up cerebral angiography revealed two (9.5%) major and two (9.5%) 
minor recanalized aneurysms in patients aged 40 years and younger, and six 
(3.0%) major and 35 (17.7%) minor recanalized aneurysms in patients older than 
40 years. However, the differences between the groups were not statistically 
significant. The preoperative and postoperative mean modified Rankin scale 
scores at time for follow-up angiography were 1.14 and 0.19 respectively for 
patients aged 40 years and younger, and 1.30 and 0.30 respectively for patients 
older than 40 years.
CONCLUSION: The younger patients had clinically favorable outcomes with 
tolerable angiographic follow-up results. More regular and long-term imaging 
follow-up is required for younger patients due to their longer life expectancy.

DOI: 10.5469/neuroint.2013.8.2.73
PMCID: PMC3766804
PMID: 24024070


10. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2013 Oct;17(10):1328-35. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.13.0095.

Cost-effectiveness of Xpert® MTB/RIF for diagnosing pulmonary tuberculosis in 
the United States.

Choi HW(1), Miele K, Dowdy D, Shah M.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.

SETTING: Conventional approaches to tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis and resistance 
testing are slow. The Xpert® MTB/RIF assay is an emerging molecular diagnostic 
assay for rapid TB diagnosis, offering results within 2 hours. However, the 
cost-effectiveness of implementing Xpert in settings with low TB prevalence, 
such as the United States, is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of incorporating Xpert into TB 
diagnostic algorithms in the United States compared to existing diagnostics.
DESIGN: A decision-analysis model compared current TB diagnostic algorithms in 
the United States to algorithms incorporating Xpert. Primary outcomes were the 
costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) accrued with each strategy; 
cost-effectiveness was represented using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICER).
RESULTS: Xpert testing of a single sputum sample from TB suspects is expected to 
result in lower total health care costs per patient (US2673) compared to 
diagnostic algorithms using only sputum microscopy and culture (US2728) and 
improved health outcomes (6.32 QALYs gained per 1000 TB suspects). Compared to 
existing molecular assays, implementation of Xpert in the United States would be 
considered highly cost-effective (ICER US39992 per QALY gained).
CONCLUSION: TB diagnostic algorithms incorporating Xpert in the United States 
are highly cost-effective.

DOI: 10.5588/ijtld.13.0095
PMCID: PMC3891798
PMID: 24025386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


11. Med Decis Making. 2014 Aug;34(6):773-86. doi: 10.1177/0272989X13503499. Epub 
2013 Sep 11.

Valuing SF-6D Health States Using a Discrete Choice Experiment.

Norman R(1), Viney R(1), Brazier J(2), Burgess L(3), Cronin P(1), King M(4), 
Ratcliffe J(5), Street D(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Evaluation, University of 
Technology, Sydney, Australia (RN, RV, PC)
(2)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK (JB)
(3)Department of Mathematical Sciences, University of Technology, Sydney, 
Australia (LB, DS)
(4)Psycho-oncology Co-operative Research Group, University of Sydney, Australia 
(MK)
(5)Flinders Health Economics Group, Flinders Clinical Effectiveness, Flinders 
University, Adelaide, Australia (JR).

BACKGROUND: SF-6D utility weights are conventionally produced using a standard 
gamble (SG). SG-derived weights consistently demonstrate a floor effect not 
observed with other elicitation techniques. Recent advances in discrete choice 
methods have allowed estimation of utility weights. The objective was to produce 
Australian utility weights for the SF-6D and to explore the application of 
discrete choice experiment (DCE) methods in this context. We hypothesized that 
weights derived using this method would reflect the largely monotonic 
construction of the SF-6D.
METHODS: We designed an online DCE and administered it to an 
Australia-representative online panel (n = 1017). A range of specifications 
investigating nonlinear preferences with respect to additional life expectancy 
were estimated using a random-effects probit model. The preferred model was then 
used to estimate a preference index such that full health and death were valued 
at 1 and 0, respectively, to provide an algorithm for Australian cost-utility 
analyses.
RESULTS: Physical functioning, pain, mental health, and vitality were the 
largest drivers of utility weights. Combining levels to remove illogical 
orderings did not lead to a poorer model fit. Relative to international 
SG-derived weights, the range of utility weights was larger with 5% of health 
states valued below zero.
CONCLUSION: s. DCEs can be used to investigate preferences for health profiles 
and to estimate utility weights for multi-attribute utility instruments. 
Australian cost-utility analyses can now use domestic SF-6D weights. The 
comparability of DCE results to those using other elicitation methods for 
estimating utility weights for quality-adjusted life-year calculations should be 
further investigated.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X13503499
PMID: 24025661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


12. EuroIntervention. 2013 Sep 10;9 Suppl:S48-54. doi: 10.4244/EIJV9SSA10.

Cost-effectiveness of transcatheter valvular interventions: economic challenges.

Osnabrugge RL(1), Kappetein AP, Reynolds MR, Cohen DJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardio-Thoracic Surgery, Erasmus University Medical Center, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

The unsustainable trend of rising healthcare costs necessitates difficult 
allocation decisions by governments, policymakers, and physicians. Consequently, 
recent advances in transcatheter valve therapies require not only clinical 
evaluation, but also careful economic evaluation. Under current indications, 
each year there are nearly 18,000 new candidates for transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation (TAVI) in European countries and an additional 9,200 in North 
America, with an estimated cost of more than $2 billion per year. Nonetheless, 
when compared with standard medical therapy for severe aortic stenosis (AS), 
TAVI leads to gains in life expectancy at an incremental cost that is acceptable 
by most Western standards. On the other hand, for high-risk (but operable) 
patients with severe AS, TAVI provides no proven survival advantage and only a 
transient quality of life benefit compared with surgical aortic valve 
replacement (SAVR). Thus, for these patients, the cost-effectiveness of TAVI 
compared with SAVR hinges on the magnitude and duration of the quality of life 
benefit as well as the relative cost of both procedures. Current data suggest 
that, for patients who are eligible for transfemoral access, TAVI is 
economically attractive (or even economically dominant) compared with high-risk 
SAVR. However, the cost-effectiveness of TAVI for patients who are not suitable 
for a transfemoral approach appears to be less favourable. Transcatheter mitral 
valve repair is in an earlier stage of clinical implementation than TAVI. As the 
evidence for this procedure accumulates, more formal economic analysis should be 
feasible.

DOI: 10.4244/EIJV9SSA10
PMID: 24025958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


13. Gut. 2014 Jun;63(6):984-95. doi: 10.1136/gutjnl-2013-305221. Epub 2013 Sep
11.

Genetic inactivation of Nupr1 acts as a dominant suppressor event in a two-hit 
model of pancreatic carcinogenesis.

Cano CE(1), Hamidi T, Garcia MN, Grasso D, Loncle C, Garcia S, Calvo E, Lomberk 
G, Dusetti N, Bartholin L, Urrutia R, Iovanna JL.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherche en Carcérologie de Marseille (CRCM), INSERM UMR 1068, 
CNRS UMR 7258, Aix-Marseille University and Institut Paoli-Calmettes, Parc 
Scientifique et Technologique de Luminy, , Marseille, France.

BACKGROUND: Nuclear protein 1 (Nupr1) is a major factor in the cell stress 
response required for Kras(G12D)-driven formation of pancreatic intraepithelial 
neoplastic lesions (PanINs). We evaluated the relevance of Nupr1 in the 
development of pancreatic cancer.
METHODS: We investigated the role of Nupr1 in pancreatic ductal adenocarcinoma 
(PDAC) progression beyond PanINs in 
Pdx1-cre;LSL-Kras(G12D);Ink4a/Arf(fl/fl)(KIC) mice.
RESULTS: Even in the context of the second tumorigenic hit of Ink4a/Arf 
deletion, Nupr1 deficiency led to suppression of malignant transformation 
involving caspase 3 activation in premalignant cells of KIC pancreas. Only half 
of Nupr1-deficient;KIC mice achieved PDAC development, and incident cases 
survived longer than Nupr1(wt);KIC mice. This was associated with the 
development of well-differentiated PDACs in Nupr1-deficient;KIC mice, which 
displayed enrichment of genes characteristic of the recently identified human 
classical PDAC subtype. Nupr1-deficient;KIC PDACs also shared with human 
classical PDACs the overexpression of the Kras-activation gene signature. In 
contrast, Nupr1(wt);KIC mice developed invasive PDACs with enriched gene 
signature of human quasi-mesenchymal (QM) PDACs. Cells derived from 
Nupr1-deficient;KIC PDACs growth in an anchorage-independent manner in vitro had 
higher aldehyde dehydrogenase activity and overexpressed nanog, Oct-4 and Sox2 
transcripts compared with Nupr1(wt);KIC cells. Moreover, Nupr1-deficient and 
Nurpr1(wt);KIC cells differed in their sensitivity to the nucleoside analogues 
Ly101-4b and WJQ63. Together, these findings show the pivotal role of Nupr1 in 
both the initiation and late stages of PDAC in vivo, with a potential impact on 
PDAC cell stemness.
CONCLUSIONS: According to Nupr1 status, KIC mice develop tumours that phenocopy 
human classical or QM-PDAC, respectively, and present differential drug 
sensitivity, thus becoming attractive models for preclinical drug trials.

DOI: 10.1136/gutjnl-2013-305221
PMID: 24026351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


14. Diabetes Care. 2014;37(1):202-9. doi: 10.2337/dc13-0410. Epub 2013 Sep 11.

Cost-effectiveness of MODY genetic testing: translating genomic advances into 
practical health applications.

Naylor RN(1), John PM, Winn AN, Carmody D, Greeley SA, Philipson LH, Bell GI, 
Huang ES.

Author information:
(1)Corresponding author: Rochelle N. Naylor, rnaylor@bsd.uchicago.edu.

OBJECTIVE To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a genetic testing policy for 
HNF1A-, HNF4A-, and GCK-MODY in a hypothetical cohort of type 2 diabetic 
patients 25-40 years old with a MODY prevalence of 2%. RESEARCH DESIGN AND 
METHODS We used a simulation model of type 2 diabetes complications based on UK 
Prospective Diabetes Study data, modified to account for the natural history of 
disease by genetic subtype to compare a policy of genetic testing at diabetes 
diagnosis versus a policy of no testing. Under the screening policy, successful 
sulfonylurea treatment of HNF1A-MODY and HNF4A-MODY was modeled to produce a 
glycosylated hemoglobin reduction of -1.5% compared with usual care. GCK-MODY 
received no therapy. Main outcome measures were costs and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) based on lifetime risk of complications and treatments, expressed 
as the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) (USD/QALY). RESULTS The 
testing policy yielded an average gain of 0.012 QALYs and resulted in an ICER of 
205,000 USD. Sensitivity analysis showed that if the MODY prevalence was 6%, the 
ICER would be ~50,000 USD. If MODY prevalence was >30%, the testing policy was 
cost saving. Reducing genetic testing costs to 700 USD also resulted in an ICER 
of ~50,000 USD. CONCLUSIONS Our simulated model suggests that a policy of 
testing for MODY in selected populations is cost-effective for the U.S. based on 
contemporary ICER thresholds. Higher prevalence of MODY in the tested population 
or decreased testing costs would enhance cost-effectiveness. Our results make a 
compelling argument for routine coverage of genetic testing in patients with 
high clinical suspicion of MODY.

DOI: 10.2337/dc13-0410
PMCID: PMC3867988
PMID: 24026547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


15. Biochem J. 2013 Oct 1;455(1):1-14. doi: 10.1042/BJ20130783.

Structures and target recognition modes of PDZ domains: recurring themes and 
emerging pictures.

Ye F(1), Zhang M.

Author information:
(1)*Division of Life Science, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, 
Hong Kong University of Science and Technology, Clear Water Bay, Kowloon, Hong 
Kong.

PDZ domains are highly abundant protein-protein interaction modules and are 
often found in multidomain scaffold proteins. PDZ-domain-containing scaffold 
proteins regulate multiple biological processes, including trafficking and 
clustering receptors and ion channels at defined membrane regions, organizing 
and targeting signalling complexes at specific cellular compartments, 
interfacing cytoskeletal structures with membranes, and maintaining various 
cellular structures. PDZ domains, each with ~90-amino-acid residues folding into 
a highly similar structure, are best known to bind to short C-terminal tail 
peptides of their target proteins. A series of recent studies have revealed 
that, in addition to the canonical target-binding mode, many PDZ-target 
interactions involve amino acid residues beyond the regular PDZ domain fold, 
which we refer to as extensions. Such extension sequences often form an integral 
structural and functional unit with the attached PDZ domain, which is defined as 
a PDZ supramodule. Correspondingly, PDZ-domain-binding sequences from target 
proteins are frequently found to require extension sequences beyond canonical 
short C-terminal tail peptides. Formation of PDZ supramodules not only affords 
necessary binding specificities and affinities demanded by physiological 
functions of PDZ domain targets, but also provides regulatory switches to be 
built in the PDZ-target interactions. At the 20th anniversary of the discovery 
of PDZ domain proteins, we try to summarize structural features and 
target-binding properties of such PDZ supramodules emerging from studies in 
recent years.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20130783
PMID: 24028161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Am J Public Health. 2013 Nov;103(11):e78-87. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301250.
Epub  2013 Sep 12.

US trends in quality-adjusted life expectancy from 1987 to 2008: combining 
national surveys to more broadly track the health of the nation.

Stewart ST(1), Cutler DM, Rosen AB.

Author information:
(1)Susan T. Stewart is with the National Bureau of Economic Research (NBER), 
Cambridge, MA; she also performed this research in previous positions with the 
Harvard University Interfaculty Program for Health Systems Improvement (PHSI), 
and the Harvard Initiative for Global Health, Cambridge. David M. Cutler is with 
the Department of Economics, Harvard University, Harvard PHSI, and the NBER. 
Allison B. Rosen is with the Department of Quantitative Health Sciences and 
Meyer's Primary Care Institute, University of Massachusetts Medical School, 
Worcester, and the NBER.

OBJECTIVES: We used data from multiple national health surveys to systematically 
track the health of the US adult population.
METHODS: We estimated trends in quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) from 
1987 to 2008 by using national mortality data combined with data on symptoms and 
impairments from the National Medical Expenditure Survey (1987), National Health 
Interview Survey (1987, 1994-1995, 1996), Medical Expenditure Panel Survey 
(1992, 1996, 2000-2008), National Nursing Home Survey (1985, 1995, and 1999), 
and Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey (1992, 1994-2008). We decomposed QALE 
into changes in life expectancy, impairments, symptoms, and smoking and body 
mass index.
RESULTS: Years of QALE increased overall and for all demographic groups-men, 
women, Whites, and Blacks-despite being slowed by increases in obesity and a 
rising prevalence of some symptoms and impairments. Overall QALE gains were 
large: 2.4 years at age 25 years and 1.7 years at age 65 years.
CONCLUSIONS: Understanding and consistently tracking the drivers of QALE change 
is central to informed policymaking. Harmonizing data from multiple national 
surveys is an important step in building this infrastructure.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301250
PMCID: PMC3828687
PMID: 24028235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. Liver Int. 2014 Apr;34(4):612-20. doi: 10.1111/liv.12307. Epub 2013 Sep 13.

Rationality and effectiveness of transarterial chemoembolization as an initial 
treatment for BCLC B stage HBV-related hepatocellular carcinoma.

Heng-jun G(1), Yao-jun Z, Min-shan C, Mei-xian C, Jun-ting H, Li X, Lau WY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hepatobiliary Surgery, Sun Yat-sen University Cancer Center, 
Guangzhou, China; State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Sun Yat-sen 
University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, China.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Transarterial chemoembolization (TACE) is recommended as 
standard care for intermediate hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We analyse the 
rationality and effectiveness of TACE with BCLC B stage HBV-related HCC in a 
large cohort.
METHODS: A total of 1516 patients with BCLC B stage from 7724 HBV-related HCCs 
who received TACE as initial treatment were retrospectively studied. The 
treatment response was assessed by the mRECIST criteria. The overall survival 
was calculated with life-table method and compared with the Mantel-Cox test. The 
prognostic factors were assessed using Cox proportional hazards.
RESULTS: The 1-, 3- and 5-year overall survival rates were 84%, 29% and 19% 
respectively for all patients. Alpha-foetoprotein, Child-Pugh classification, 
tumour size and number were independent prognostic factors. The 5-year survival 
for patients with CR, PR, SD and PD were 39%, 19%, 2% and 0%, respectively (P < 
0.0001). Child-Pugh A liver function (P = 0.002) and smaller tumour (P < 0.0001) 
were associated with CR/PR response. After TACE, the 5-year survival rates for 
patients who received surgical resection, local ablation, repeated TACE and 
other therapies were 52%, 29%, 12%, 10% respectively (P < 0.0001). In 328 CR 
patients, the prognosis of 151 patients received surgical resection is better 
than 177 patients not undergo liver resection (5-year survival: 52% & 27%, P < 
0.0001).
CONCLUSIONS: Transarterial chemoembolization is a safe and efficacious treatment 
for BCLC B stage HBV-related HCC. A low AFP level, small tumour, low tumour 
number and good liver function predicted good survival. Tumour response after 
initial TACE, an independent prognostic factor of overall survival, was 
associated with tumour extent and influenced subsequent treatment.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12307
PMID: 24028297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. J Med Econ. 2014 Jan;17(1):32-42. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.844160. Epub
2013  Oct 18.

Primary vs secondary prophylaxis with pegfilgrastim for the reduction of febrile 
neutropenia risk in patients receiving chemotherapy for non-Hodgkin's lymphoma: 
cost-effectiveness analyses.

Hill G(1), Barron R, Fust K, Skornicki ME, Taylor DC, Weinstein MC, Lyman GH.

Author information:
(1)Barnstable Public Schools *

OBJECTIVE: Evaluate the cost-effectiveness of primary vs secondary prophylaxis 
(PP vs SP) with pegfilgrastim to reduce the risk of febrile neutropenia (FN) in 
Non-Hodgkin's Lymphoma (NHL) patients receiving myelosuppressive chemotherapy 
from a US payer perspective.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to compare PP vs SP with pegfilgrastim in a 
cohort of patients receiving six cycles of cyclophosphamide, vincristine, 
doxorubicin, and prednisone (CHOP) or CHOP plus rituximab (CHOP-R) chemotherapy. 
Model inputs, including efficacy of pegfilgrastim in reducing risk of FN and 
costs, were estimated from publicly available sources and peer-reviewed 
publications. Incremental cost-effectiveness was evaluated in terms of net cost 
per life-year saved (LYS), per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained, and per 
FN event avoided over a lifetime horizon. Deterministic and probabilistic 
analyses were performed to assess sensitivity and robustness of results.
RESULTS: Lifetime costs for PP were $5000 greater than for SP; however, PP was 
associated with fewer FN events and more LYs and QALYs gained vs SP. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for PP vs SP for CHOP were $13,400 per FN 
event avoided, $29,500 per QALY gained, and $25,800 per LYS. CHOP-R results were 
similar ($15,000 per FN event avoided, $33,000 per QALY gained, and $28,900 per 
LYS). Results were most sensitive to baseline FN risk, cost per FN episode, and 
odds ratio for reduced relative dose intensity due to prior FN event. PP was 
cost-effective vs SP in 85% of simulations at a $50,000 per QALY threshold.
LIMITATIONS: In the absence of NHL-specific data, estimates for pegfilgrastim 
efficacy and relative risk reduction of FN were based on available data for 
neoadjuvant TAC in patients with breast cancer. Baseline risks of FN for CHOP 
and CHOP-R were assumed to be equivalent.
CONCLUSIONS: PP with pegfilgrastim is cost-effective compared to SP with 
pegfilgrastim in NHL patients receiving CHOP or CHOP-R.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.844160
PMID: 24028444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Int J Food Microbiol. 2013 Sep 16;166(3):369-77. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.08.012. Epub 2013 Aug 19.

Antifungal properties of gliadin films incorporating cinnamaldehyde and 
application in active food packaging of bread and cheese spread foodstuffs.

Balaguer MP(1), Lopez-Carballo G, Catala R, Gavara R, Hernandez-Munoz P.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Agroquímica y Tecnología de Alimentos (IATA-CSIC), Grupo de 
Envases, Av. Agustín Escardino 7, 46980 Paterna, Valencia, Spain.

Gliadin films incorporating 1.5, 3 and 5% cinnamaldehyde (g/100g protein) were 
tested against food-spoilage fungi Penicillium expansum and Aspergillus niger in 
vitro, and were employed in an active food packaging system for sliced bread and 
cheese spread. Gliadin films incorporating cinnamaldehyde were highly effective 
against fungal growth. P. expansum and A. niger were completely inhibited after 
storage in vitro for 10 days in the presence of films incorporating 3% 
cinnamaldehyde. Indeed 1.5% cinnamaldehyde was sufficient in the case of P. 
expansum. The amount of cinnamaldehyde retained in films after storage for 45 
days at 20 °C and 0% RH was also sufficient in most cases to prevent fungal 
growth in vitro. Active food packaging with gliadin films incorporating 5% 
cinnamaldehyde increased the shelf-life of both sliced bread and cheese spread. 
Mold growth was observed on sliced bread after 27 days of storage at 23 °C with 
active packaging, whereas in the control bread packaged without the active film 
fungal growth appeared around the fourth day. In the cheese spread, no fungi 
were observed after 26 days of storage at 4 °C when the product was packaged 
with the active film. However, growth of fungi was observed in control packaged 
cheese after 16 days of storage. This work demonstrates a noteworthy potential 
of these novel bioplastics incorporating natural antimicrobial compounds as 
innovative solutions to be used in active food packaging to extend shelf-life of 
food products.

© 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.08.012
PMID: 24029024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2013 Sep 1;11(9):1165-72; quiz 1173. doi: 
10.6004/jnccn.2013.0134.

Controversies in the treatment of elderly patients with newly diagnosed 
glioblastoma.

Holdhoff M(1), Chamberlain MC.

Author information:
(1)From the aBrain Cancer Program, The Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center 
at Johns Hopkins, Baltimore, Maryland; and bFred Hutchinson Cancer Research 
Center, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington.

Approximately half of all patients with glioblastoma are older than 65 years and 
nearly one-quarter are older than 70 years, with a rising incidence of this 
disease in the elderly population. The life expectancy of elderly patients with 
glioblastoma is significantly shorter than in younger patients. Potential 
explanations for this abbreviated survival include differences in tumor biology, 
reduced use of therapies, enhanced toxicity of treatment, or diminished efficacy 
of available therapies with increasing age. The current standard treatment of 
newly diagnosed, protocol-eligible, nonelderly patients with glioblastoma is 
based on the randomized prospective EORTC/NCIC study that included patients aged 
18 to 70 years with a performance status of ECOG 0 to 2. Limited 
single-institution retrospective series suggest that clinically fit elderly 
patients may benefit from a similar treatment regimen. However, no randomized 
trial has been performed in the elderly population using this regimen. Available 
prospective randomized clinical trials in the elderly population with 
glioblastoma have shown that radiotherapy is superior to supportive care only, 
that single-modality hypofractionated radiotherapy (reduced dose and shorter 
treatment schedule) is an alternative to single-modality standard fractionated 
radiotherapy, and that single-agent temozolomide is equivalent to radiotherapy 
alone. This article summarizes published data of current patterns of care in 
elderly patients and reviews published evidence as it pertains to the benefit of 
different treatment modalities in elderly patients with glioblastoma. 
Notwithstanding the previously mentioned randomized trials, the optimal 
treatment of elderly patients with glioblastoma remains controversial.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2013.0134
PMID: 24029128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Eur J Public Health. 2014 Oct;24(5):856-61. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt132. Epub 
2013 Sep 12.

The impact of the HDI on the association of psychosocial work demands with 
sickness absence and presenteeism.

Muckenhuber J(1), Burkert N(2), Dorner TE(3), Großschädl F(2), Freidl W(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Social Medicine and Epidemiology, Medical University Graz, 
Universitätsstr. 6/1, A-8020 Graz, Austria johanna.muckenhuber@medunigraz.at.
(2)1 Department of Social Medicine and Epidemiology, Medical University Graz, 
Universitätsstr. 6/1, A-8020 Graz, Austria.
(3)2 Center for Public Health, Medical University Vienna, Währinger Straße 
13a/3.Stock, A-1090 Wien, Austria.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to determine whether psychosocial work 
demands have a different impact on sickness absence and presenteeism in 
countries with a high vs. countries with a low Human Development Index (HDI).
METHODS: This article is based on an analysis of the fifth European Working 
Conditions Survey. We investigated single items as well as complex constructs 
and indices. Sickness absence and presenteeism were measured as outcome 
variables. Following the model of Karasek and Theorell, we measured the HDI at 
the macro level and psychosocial job demands at the micro level as independent 
variables.
RESULTS: The multivariate multilevel analysis reveals a significant association 
between the HDI and the number of days recorded for sickness absence. In 
countries with a higher HDI, people report a lower number of days with sickness 
absence. Higher psychosocial job demands are associated with poorer health. 
There are significant cross-level interaction effects between psychosocial job 
demands and the HDI for these associations. Psychosocial job demands are 
stronger associated with sickness absence and presenteeism in high-HDI than in 
low-HDI countries.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR PUBLIC HEALTH: We argue that Public Health 
Actions that are connected to work characteristics need to take into 
consideration the level of HDI of the countries. In low- and high-HDI countries, 
different actions could be necessary to reach the needs of the working 
population.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/ckt132
PMID: 24029457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Br J Psychiatry. 2013 Nov;203(5):341-9. doi: 10.1192/bjp.bp.112.111583. Epub 
2013 Sep 12.

Cost-effectiveness of injectable opioid treatment v. oral methadone for chronic 
heroin addiction.

Byford S(1), Barrett B, Metrebian N, Groshkova T, Cary M, Charles V, Lintzeris 
N, Strang J.

Author information:
(1)Sarah Byford, PhD, Barbara Barrett, PhD, Centre for the Economics of Mental 
and Physical Health, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, UK; Nicola 
Metrebian, PhD, Addictions Department, National Addiction Centre, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, UK; Teodora Groshkova, PhD, European 
Monitoring Centre for Drugs and Drug Addiction, Lisbon, Portugal; Maria Cary, 
MSc, Centre for the Economics of Mental and Physical Health, Institute of 
Psychiatry, King's College London, UK; Vikki Charles, MA, Addictions Department, 
National Addiction Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, UK; 
Nicholas Lintzeris, PhD, The Langton Centre, South Eastern Sydney Local Health 
District, NSW Health, Australia; John Strang, MD, Addictions Department, 
National Addiction Centre, Institute of Psychiatry, King's College London, UK.

Comment in
    Br J Psychiatry. 2013 Nov;203(5):325-6.
    Br J Psychiatry. 2014 Mar;204(3):241.
    Br J Psychiatry. 2014 Mar;204(3):241-2.

BACKGROUND: Despite evidence of the effectiveness of injectable opioid treatment 
compared with oral methadone for chronic heroin addiction, the additional cost 
of injectable treatment is considerable, and cost-effectiveness uncertain.
AIMS: To compare the cost-effectiveness of supervised injectable heroin and 
injectable methadone with optimised oral methadone for chronic refractory heroin 
addiction.
METHOD: Multisite, open-label, randomised controlled trial. Outcomes were 
assessed in terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs). Economic perspective 
included health, social services and criminal justice resources.
RESULTS: Intervention costs over 26 weeks were significantly higher for 
injectable heroin (mean £8995 v. £4674 injectable methadone and £2596 oral 
methadone; P<0.0001). Costs overall were highest for oral methadone (mean £15 
805 v. £13 410 injectable methadone and £10 945 injectable heroin; P = n.s.) due 
to higher costs of criminal activity. In cost-effectiveness analysis, oral 
methadone was dominated by injectable heroin and injectable methadone (more 
expensive and less effective). At willingness to pay of £30 000 per QALY, there 
is a higher probability of injectable methadone being more cost-effective (80%) 
than injectable heroin.
CONCLUSIONS: Injectable opioid treatments are more cost-effective than optimised 
oral methadone for chronic refractory heroin addiction. The choice between 
supervised injectable heroin and injectable methadone is less clear. There is 
currently evidence to suggest superior effectiveness of injectable heroin but at 
a cost that policy makers may find unacceptable. Future research should consider 
the use of decision analytic techniques to model expected costs and benefits of 
the treatments over the longer term.

DOI: 10.1192/bjp.bp.112.111583
PMID: 24029536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Drugs. 2013 Sep;73(14):1595-604. doi: 10.1007/s40265-013-0115-2.

Ivacaftor: a review of its use in patients with cystic fibrosis.

Deeks ED(1).

Author information:
(1)Adis, 41 Centorian Drive, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, North Shore, 0754, 
Auckland, New Zealand, demail@springer.com.

Ivacaftor (Kalydeco™) is a potentiator of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane 
conductance regulator (CFTR) and is the first drug that treats an underlying 
cause of cystic fibrosis to be licensed for use. Ivacaftor increases the open 
probability (i.e. gating) of CFTR channels with the G551D mutation, thus 
enhancing chloride transport, and is indicated in a number of countries for the 
treatment of cystic fibrosis in patients aged ≥6 years who carry this mutation. 
This review focuses on pharmacological, clinical efficacy and tolerability data 
relevant to the use of ivacaftor in this indication. In two 48-week, 
double-blind, phase III trials in patients aged ≥12 (STRIVE) or 6-11 (ENVISION) 
years with cystic fibrosis and the G551D mutation, oral ivacaftor 150 mg every 
12 h significantly improved lung function relative to placebo, when used in 
combination with standard care. Significant improvements in pulmonary 
exacerbation risk (in STRIVE) as well as bodyweight and some aspects of 
health-related quality of life (both studies) were also seen with the drug 
versus placebo. Moreover, the beneficial effects of ivacaftor on parameters such 
as lung function and bodyweight were maintained over up to 96 weeks of treatment 
in an ongoing open-label extension of these studies. Ivacaftor was generally 
well tolerated, with headache, oropharyngeal pain, upper respiratory tract 
infection and nasal congestion being among the most common adverse events. Thus, 
ivacaftor expands the current treatment options for patients with cystic 
fibrosis who have the G551D mutation. Its potential for use in patients with 
other CFTR mutations is also of interest.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-013-0115-2
PMID: 24030637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2014 Jan;41(1):105-15. doi: 
10.1007/s00259-013-2546-0. Epub 2013 Sep 13.

Combined (99m)Tc-methoxyisobutylisonitrile scintigraphy and fine-needle 
aspiration cytology offers an accurate and potentially cost-effective 
investigative strategy for the assessment of solitary or dominant thyroid 
nodules.

Wale A(1), Miles KA, Young B, Zammit C, Williams A, Quin J, Dizdarevic S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, Brighton and Sussex University Hospitals NHS 
Trust, Brighton, UK, anita.wale@doctors.org.uk.

Comment in
    Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2014 Jan;41(1):102-4.
    Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2014 Mar;41(3):575-6.
    Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2014 Mar;41(3):577-8.

PURPOSE: Fine-needle aspiration (FNA) has revolutionised the care of patients 
with thyroid nodules and is the initial investigation of choice. However, as a 
result of nondiagnostic (Thy1) and nonneoplastic (Thy2) specimens, it remains an 
imperfect sole solution with a range of sensitivities and a high inadequate 
ratio. Therefore the British Thyroid Association (BTA) guidelines recommend a 
second FNA immediately for Thy1 specimens and 3-6 months later for Thy2 
specimens. Patients must be followed up to exclude malignancy. In this study we 
assessed the performance of MIBI scintigraphy for diagnosing thyroid malignancy 
and the cost-effectiveness of a combined FNA/MIBI investigative strategy for the 
management of thyroid nodules.
METHODS: The diagnostic performance of MIBI scintigraphy was calculated from a 
retrospective review of local data combined with a meta-analysis of the 
published literature. Decision tree analysis was used to calculate the 
cost-effectiveness of a combined FNA/MIBI investigative strategy compared to the 
BTA guidelines.
RESULTS: From 712 patients, the sensitivity, specificity, PPV and NPV of MIBI 
scintigraphy for the diagnosis of malignancy were 96 %, 46 %, 34 % and 97 %, 
respectively. MIBI-based strategies were more accurate and associated with lower 
cost per patient (£1,855/<euro>2,125 vs. £2,445/<euro>2,801) and lower cost per 
cancer diagnosed (£1,902/<euro>2,179 vs. £2,469/<euro>2,828) with negligible 
change in life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Due to its high NPV, MIBI scintigraphy can usefully exclude 
malignancy for Thy1 and Thy2 lesions. Its low specificity means MIBI 
scintigraphy cannot be recommended as a first-line investigation, but as a 
second-line investigation MIBI scintigraphy may lead to a lower rate of 
unnecessary thyroidectomies. Combined FNA/MIBI strategies are potentially 
cost-effective in the management of solitary or dominant thyroid nodules.

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-013-2546-0
PMID: 24030667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Oct;31(10):909-18. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0087-9.

Cost-effectiveness of rivaroxaban versus warfarin for stroke prevention in 
atrial fibrillation in the Belgian healthcare setting.

Kleintjens J(1), Li X, Simoens S, Thijs V, Goethals M, Rietzschel ER, Asukai Y, 
Saka Ö, Evers T, Faes P, Vansieleghem S, De Ruyck M.

Author information:
(1)Deloitte Health Economics and Outcomes Research Group, Brussels, Belgium.

BACKGROUND: Warfarin, an inexpensive drug that has been available for over half 
a century, has been the mainstay of anticoagulant therapy for stroke prevention 
in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). Recently, rivaroxaban, a novel oral 
anticoagulant (NOAC) which offers some distinct advantages over warfarin, the 
standard of care in a world without NOACs, has been introduced and is now 
recommended by international guidelines.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to evaluate, from a Belgian healthcare 
payer perspective, the cost-effectiveness of rivaroxaban versus use of warfarin 
for the treatment of patients with non-valvular AF at moderate to high risk.
METHODS: A Markov model was designed and populated with local cost estimates, 
safety-on-treatment clinical results from the pivotal phase III ROCKET AF trial 
and utility values obtained from the literature.
RESULTS: Rivaroxaban treatment was associated with fewer ischemic strokes and 
systemic embolisms (0.308 vs. 0.321 events), intracranial bleeds (0.048 vs. 
0.063), and myocardial infarctions (0.082 vs. 0.095) per patient compared with 
warfarin. Over a lifetime time horizon, rivaroxaban led to a reduction of 0.042 
life-threatening events per patient, and increases of 0.111 life-years and 0.094 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) versus warfarin treatment. This resulted in 
an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of €8,809 per QALY or €7,493 per 
life-year gained. These results are based on valuated data from 2010. 
Sensitivity analysis indicated that these results were robust and that 
rivaroxaban is cost-effective compared with warfarin in 87 % of cases should a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of €35,000/QALY gained be considered.
CONCLUSIONS: The present analysis suggests that rivaroxaban is a cost-effective 
alternative to warfarin therapy for the prevention of stroke in patients with AF 
in the Belgian healthcare setting.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0087-9
PMCID: PMC3824571
PMID: 24030788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2014 Dec;31(8):845-52. doi: 10.1177/1049909113503486.
 Epub 2013 Sep 11.

Comparison of accuracy among prognostic scores for predicting life expectancy in 
Korean patients with cancer with weeks of survival.

Yoon SJ(1), Jung JG(1), Kim JS(1), Kim SS(1), Kim S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Research Institute for Medical Sciences, 
Chungnam National University School of Medicine, Daejeon, Korea.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Cancer Research Institute, Chungnam National 
University School of Medicine, Daejeon, Korea frkim@cnu.ac.kr.

To compare the accuracy among 4 prognostic scores (Palliative Prognostic Score 
(PaP), Delirium-PaP (D-PaP), Palliative Prognostic Index (PPI), Objective 
Prognostic Score (OPS)) for predicting life expectancy in Korean cancer patients 
with weeks of survival, we conducted a retrospective study by reviewing medical 
records of 94 patients and compared the accuracy of 3-week and 30-day survival 
among the 4 prognostic scores. Three-week survival estimates were highest for 
the PaP and 30-day estimates were similar for the 4 prognostic scores. Area 
under the receiver operating characteristic curve was highest for the PaP and 
lowest for the PPI, but there were no significant differences. The prognostics 
scores did not differ from each other in a significant manner.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909113503486
PMID: 24031080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. J Med Econ. 2014 Jan;17(1):77-87. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.844159. Epub
2013  Nov 21.

Cost-effectiveness of telaprevir in combination with pegylated interferon alpha 
and ribavirin in treatment-experienced chronic hepatitis C genotype 1 patients.

Cure S(1), Bianic F, Gavart S, Curtis S, Lee S, Dusheiko G.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight , Uxbridge , UK.

Comment in
    J Med Econ. 2014 Jul;17(7):445.

BACKGROUND: Telaprevir (TVR,T) and boceprevir (BOC,B) are direct-acting 
antivirals (DAAs) used for the treatment of chronic genotype 1 hepatitis C virus 
(HCV) infection. This analysis evaluated the cost-effectiveness of TVR combined 
with pegylated interferon (Peg-IFN) alfa-2a plus ribavirin (RBV) compared with 
Peg-IFN alfa-2a and RBV (PR) alone or BOC plus Peg-IFN alfa-2b and RBV in 
treatment-experienced patients.
METHODS: A Markov cohort model of chronic genotype 1 HCV disease progression 
reflected the pathway of experienced patients retreated with DAA therapy. The 
population was stratified by previous response to treatment (i.e., previous 
relapsers, partial responders, and null responders). Sustained virologic 
response (SVR) rates were derived from a mixed-treatment comparison that 
included results from separate Phase III trials of TVR and BOC. Incremental cost 
per life year (LY) gained and quality-adjusted-life-year (QALY) gained were 
computed at lifetime, adopting the NHS perspective. Costs and health outcomes 
were discounted at 3.5%. Uncertainty was assessed using deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses. Sub-group analyses were carried out by 
interleukin (IL)-28B genotype.
RESULTS: Higher costs and improved outcomes were associated with T/PR relative 
to PR alone for all experienced patients (ICER of £6079). T/PR was 
cost-effective for each sub-group population with high SVR advantage in 
relapsers (ICER of £2658 vs £7593 and £20,875 for partial and null responders). 
T/PR remained cost-effective regardless of IL-28B sub-type. Compared to B/PR, 
T/PR prolonged QALYs by 0.57 and reduced lifetime costs by £13,960 for 
relapsers. For partial responders T/PR was less costly but less efficacious than 
B/PR, equating to an ICER of £128,117 per QALY gained.
LIMITATIONS: No head-to-head trial provides direct evidence of better efficacy 
of T/PR vs B/PR.
CONCLUSION: T/PR is cost-effective compared with PR alone in experienced 
patients regardless of treatment history and IL-28B genotype. Compared to B/PR, 
T/PR is always cost-saving but only more effective in relapsers.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.844159
PMID: 24032626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Alcohol Clin Exp Res. 2014 Jan;38(1):257-66. doi: 10.1111/acer.12256. Epub
2013  Aug 16.

The effects of the 2006 Russian alcohol policy on alcohol-related mortality: an 
interrupted time series analysis.

Pridemore WA(1), Chamlin MB, Kaylen MT, Andreev E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Criminal Justice and Criminology , Georgia State University, 
Atlanta, Georgia.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to determine the impact of a set of 2006 
Russian alcohol policies on alcohol-related mortality in the country.
METHODS: We used autoregressive integrated moving average interrupted time 
series techniques to model the impact of the policy on the number of 
sex-specific monthly deaths of those aged 15+ years due to alcohol poisoning, 
alcoholic cardiomyopathy, alcoholic liver cirrhosis, and alcohol-related mental 
and behavioral disorders. The time series began in January 2000 and ended in 
December 2010. The alcohol policy was implemented in January 2006.
RESULTS: The alcohol policy resulted in a significant gradual and sustained 
decline in male deaths due to alcohol poisoning (ωo = -92.631, p < 0.008, δ1 = 
0.883, p < 0.001) and in significant immediate and sustained declines in male 
(ω0 = -63.20, p < 0.05) and female (ω0 = -64.28, p < 0.005) deaths due to 
alcoholic liver cirrhosis.
CONCLUSIONS: The 2006 suite of alcohol policies in Russia was responsible for an 
annual decline of about 6,700 male alcohol poisoning deaths and about 760 male 
and about 770 female alcoholic liver cirrhosis deaths. Without the alcohol 
policy, male alcohol poisoning deaths would have been 35% higher and male and 
female alcoholic liver cirrhosis deaths would have been 9 and 15% higher, 
respectively. We contextualize our findings in relation to declining mortality 
in Russia and to results from recent studies of the impact of this law on other 
causes of death.

Copyright © 2013 by the Research Society on Alcoholism.

DOI: 10.1111/acer.12256
PMID: 24033700 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Transplant Proc. 2013 Sep;45(7):2616-8. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2013.07.009.

Urgent liver, heart, and lung transplantation programs in Italy: activities and 
evaluation of outcomes.

Pretagostini R(1), Rizzato L, Ricci A, Puoti F, Peritore D, Nanni Costa A.

Author information:
(1)Interregional Transplant Centre, Organizzazione Centro Sud Trapianti, Surgery 
Sciences Department of Policlinico of Rome, Umberto I, Rome, Italy.

The Italian national transplantation network has set up programs for liver, 
heart, and lung transplantation in urgent conditions. The aim of this study was 
to analyze the capability of these programs to meeting needs and their quality. 
In period between 2008 and 2011, the total number of urgent transplant requests 
was analyzed by organ, reason, and outcome, namely waiting time, graft origin, 
and number of transplantations with their one- and three-year graft survivals. 
There were urgent requests for 312 livers, 268 hearts, and 43 lungs totted among 
which 72%, 63%, and 79% were met, respectively. Actuarial graft survival rates 
at one and three years were 62% and 61% for liver and 73.1% and 70.5% for heart 
transplantations, respectively. The rate of satisfied requests and the graft 
outcomes showed that the national urgency programs meet the healthcare needs of 
patients with a short life expectancy, achieving good quality donor-recipient 
match.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2013.07.009
PMID: 24034005 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Liver Int. 2014 Apr;34(4):551-7. doi: 10.1111/liv.12279. Epub 2013 Aug 29.

Elderly age is not a negative predictive factor for virological response to 
therapy with pegylated interferon-α and ribavirin in chronic hepatitis C virus 
patients.
