Comment on
    Spinal Cord. 2012 Nov;50(11):803-11.

DOI: 10.1038/sc.2013.93
PMID: 24100665 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Am J Epidemiol. 2013 Dec 15;178(12):1740-9. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwt210. Epub
2013  Oct 7.

Modeling the impact of alternative strategies for rapid molecular diagnosis of 
tuberculosis in Southeast Asia.

Sun AY, Pai M, Salje H, Satyanarayana S, Deo S, Dowdy DW.

Novel diagnostic tests hold promise for improving tuberculosis (TB) control, but 
their epidemiologic impact remains uncertain. Using data from the World Health 
Organization (2011-2012), we developed a transmission model to evaluate the 
deployment of 3 hypothetical TB diagnostic tests in Southeast Asia under 
idealized scenarios of implementation. We defined diagnostics by their 
sensitivity for smear-negative TB and proportion of patients testing positive 
who initiate therapy ("point-of-care amenability"), with tests of increasing 
point-of-care amenability having lower sensitivity. Implemented in the public 
sector (35% of care-seeking attempts), each novel test reduced TB incidence by 
7%-9% (95% uncertainty range: 4%-13%) and mortality by 20%-22% (95% uncertainty 
range: 14%-27%) after 10 years. If also deployed in the private sector (65% of 
attempts), these tests reduced incidence by 13%-16%, whereas a perfect test 
(100% sensitivity and treatment initiation) reduced incidence by 20%. Annually 
detecting 20% of prevalent TB cases through targeted screening (70% 
smear-negative sensitivity, 85% treatment initiation) also reduced incidence by 
19%. Sensitivity and point-of-care amenability are equally important 
considerations when developing novel diagnostic tests for TB. Novel diagnostics 
can substantially reduce TB incidence and mortality in Southeast Asia but are 
unlikely to transform TB control unless they are deployed actively and in the 
private sector.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwt210
PMCID: PMC3858106
PMID: 24100953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. World J Surg. 2014 Mar;38(3):549-57. doi: 10.1007/s00268-013-2273-5.

Muscle function is impaired in patients with "asymptomatic" primary 
hyperparathyroidism.

Rolighed L(1), Amstrup AK, Jakobsen NF, Sikjaer T, Mosekilde L, Christiansen P, 
Rejnmark L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery P, Aarhus University Hospital, Tage Hansens Gade 2, 
Aarhus C, 8000, Denmark, larsrolighed@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Patients with "asymptomatic" primary hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) 
often describe improvement after surgery.
METHODS: We evaluated muscle and balance function, quality of life (QoL), and 
well-being in 58 PHPT patients and 58 population-based matched controls in a 
cross-sectional study. We tested whether patients considered "asymptomatic" 
according to international guidelines have functional impairment.
RESULTS: Mean age of the patients and controls was 59 years, and 47 (81 %) were 
women. Patients had higher levels of plasma PTH and ionized calcium. Creatinine 
and 25-hydroxyvitamin D levels did not differ between groups. Altogether, 16 
(28 %) patients were "asymptomatic." Compared with controls, PHPT was associated 
with significantly lower QoL in all eight domains of the short form-36 
questionnaire, lower well-being (WHO Five Well-Being Index; p < 0.001), and 
impaired postural stability during normal standing with eyes open (p < 0.05) or 
closed (p < 0.001). Maximum isometric muscle strength was reduced in both upper 
(p < 0.01) and lower (p < 0.001) extremities. Physical performance was decreased 
during 10 repeated chair stands (p < 0.001) and time to walk 3 m forward and 
back (p < 0.05). Restricting analyses to "asymptomatic" patients showed 
significantly lower muscle strength at knee extension and flexion and impaired 
postural stability than in matched controls.
CONCLUSIONS: PHPT is associated with deleterious effects on muscles and QoL. 
Impairments also apply to patients with mild disease, normally considered 
"asymptomatic." This may explain why "asymptomatic" patients report improvements 
following surgery. The impaired muscle function may contribute to increased 
fracture risk independent of bone mineral density.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-013-2273-5
PMID: 24101026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Oct;32(10):1698-705. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0052.

Substantial health and economic returns from delayed aging may warrant a new 
focus for medical research.

Goldman DP, Cutler D, Rowe JW, Michaud PC, Sullivan J, Peneva D, Olshansky SJ.

Recent scientific advances suggest that slowing the aging process (senescence) 
is now a realistic goal. Yet most medical research remains focused on combating 
individual diseases. Using the Future Elderly Model--a microsimulation of the 
future health and spending of older Americans--we compared optimistic "disease 
specific" scenarios with a hypothetical "delayed aging" scenario in terms of the 
scenarios' impact on longevity, disability, and major entitlement program costs. 
Delayed aging could increase life expectancy by an additional 2.2 years, most of 
which would be spent in good health. The economic value of delayed aging is 
estimated to be $7.1 trillion over fifty years. In contrast, addressing heart 
disease and cancer separately would yield diminishing improvements in health and 
longevity by 2060--mainly due to competing risks. Delayed aging would greatly 
increase entitlement outlays, especially for Social Security. However, these 
changes could be offset by increasing the Medicare eligibility age and the 
normal retirement age for Social Security. Overall, greater investment in 
research to delay aging appears to be a highly efficient way to forestall 
disease, extend healthy life, and improve public health.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0052
PMCID: PMC3938188
PMID: 24101058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Oct;32(10):1706-14. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0449.

More americans living longer with cardiovascular disease will increase costs 
while lowering quality of life.

Pandya A, Gaziano TA, Weinstein MC, Cutler D.

In the past several decades, some risk factors for cardiovascular disease have 
improved, while others have worsened. For example, smoking rates have dropped 
and treatment rates for cardiovascular disease have increased-factors that have 
made the disease less fatal. At the same time, Americans' average body mass 
index and incidence of diabetes have increased as the population continues to 
live longer-factors that have made cardiovascular disease more prevalent. To 
assess the aggregate impact of these opposing trends, we used the nine National 
Health and Nutrition Examination Survey waves from 1973 to 2010 to forecast 
total cardiovascular disease risk and prevalence from 2015 to 2030. We found 
that continued improvements in cardiovascular disease treatment and declining 
smoking rates will not outweigh the influence of increasing population age and 
obesity on cardiovascular disease risk. Given an aging population, an obesity 
epidemic, and declining mortality from the disease, the United States should 
expect to see a sharp rise in the health care costs, disability, and reductions 
in quality of life associated with increased prevalence of cardiovascular 
disease. Policies that target the treatment of high blood pressure and 
cholesterol and the reduction of obesity will be necessary to curb the imminent 
spike in cardiovascular disease prevalence.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0449
PMCID: PMC3894660
PMID: 24101059 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Oct;32(10):1766-72. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0434.

'Double jeopardy' measure suggests blacks and hispanics face more severe 
disparities than previously indicated.

Kirby JB, Kaneda T.

Eliminating disparities in health and health care is a long-standing objective 
of the US government. Racial and ethnic differences in insurance coverage pose a 
major obstacle to achieving this objective. With important coverage provisions 
of the Affordable Care Act beginning to take effect, we propose a new way of 
conceptualizing and quantifying the racial and ethnic disadvantages of 
uninsurance over the course of a lifetime. Using a life expectancy approach, we 
estimate the number of years whites, blacks, and Hispanics can expect to live in 
insurance "double jeopardy": being uninsured while also in lesser health and, 
therefore, at higher risk of needing medical care. Our measures indicate that 
compared to whites, Hispanics and blacks are more likely not only to be 
uninsured at any point throughout most of their lives, but also to spend more 
years uninsured and spend more of these uninsured years at high risk of needing 
medical care. These life expectancy measures--designed for ease of use by policy 
makers, researchers, and the general public--have the potential to reframe the 
discussion of disparities and monitor progress toward their elimination.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0434
PMID: 24101067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Turk Neurosurg. 2013;23(4):551-6. doi: 10.5137/1019-5149.JTN.5666-11.2.

A case of chordoma invading multiple neuroaxial bones: report of ten years 
follow up.

Aydin AL(1), Sasani M, Oktenoglu T, Solaroglu I, Ozer AF.

Author information:
(1)Istanbul Physical Therapy and Rehabilitation Hospital, Department of 
Neurosurgery, Istanbul, Turkey.

AIM: Chordoma is a rare, slow-growing primary malignant tumor of the axial 
skeleton, arising from the embryonic cells of primitive notochord. Chordomas may 
arise at different sites of the vertebral column simultaneously or more probably 
they may metastasise along the neural axis insidiously. Recurrence despite 
radical surgery and following adjuvant therapy is possible.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A 46-year-old female patient presented weakness and 
numbness of the lower extremities. She was operated for clivus chordoma five 
years ago at another institute.
RESULTS: First the patient underwent surgery for resection of the tumor at the 
cervical region. a second surgery was performed to resect tumor on the foramen 
magnum and at the C1 level. Histologic examination of the removed vertebra 
confirmed the diagnosis of chordoma involving the vertebral body. Radiotherapy 
was administered after the second surgery. Follow-up neurological and 
radiological examinations revealed no abnormal neurological symptoms 2,5 years 
after second surgery. There were no distant organ metastases.
CONCLUSION: A patient with diagnosed chordoma of the spine must be investigated 
with MRI of other regions of the neuraxis to exclude second or even third source 
of chordoma metastases. In metastatic chordoma cases, radical or gross total 
resection should be performed for each lesion but if complete surgical 
resections are impossible, preoperative or postoperative radiation therapy 
should be planned to improve life expectancy.

DOI: 10.5137/1019-5149.JTN.5666-11.2
PMID: 24101282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. J Gastrointest Surg. 2014 Jan;18(1):60-8. doi: 10.1007/s11605-013-2373-4.
Epub  2013 Oct 8.

Defining high risk: cost-effectiveness of extended-duration thromboprophylaxis 
following major oncologic abdominal surgery.

Iannuzzi JC(1), Rickles AS, Kelly KN, Fleming FJ, Dolan JG, Monson JR, Noyes K.

Author information:
(1)Surgical Health Outcomes & Research Enterprise, Department of Surgery, 
University of Rochester Medical Center, 601 Elmwood Ave, Box SURG, Rochester, 
NY, 14642, USA, james_iannuzzi@URMC.rochester.edu.

PURPOSE: Extended-duration thromboprophylaxis (EDTPPX) is the practice of 
prescribing antithrombotic therapy for 21 days after discharge, commonly used in 
surgical patients who are at high risk for venothromboembolism (VTE). While 
guidelines recommend EDTPPX, criteria are vague due to a paucity of data. The 
criteria can be further informed by cost-effectiveness thresholds. This study 
sought to determine the VTE incidence threshold for the cost-effectiveness of 
EDTPPX compared to inpatient prophylaxis.
METHODS: A decision tree was used to compare EDTPPX for 21 days after discharge 
to 7 days of inpatient prophylaxis with base case assumptions based on an 
abdominal oncologic resection without complications in an otherwise healthy 
individual. Willingness to pay was set at $50,000/quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY). Sensitivity analyses were performed to assess uncertainty within the 
model, with particular interest in the threshold for cost-effectiveness based on 
VTE incidence.
RESULTS: EDTPPX was the dominant strategy when VTE probability exceeds 2.39 %. 
Given a willingness to pay threshold of $50,000/QALY, EDTPPX was the preferred 
strategy when VTE incidence exceeded 1.22 and 0.88 % when using brand name or 
generic medication costs, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: EDTPPX should be recommended whenever VTE incidence exceeds 2.39 %. 
When post-discharge estimated VTE risk is 0.88-2.39 %, patient preferences about 
self-injections and medication costs should be considered.

DOI: 10.1007/s11605-013-2373-4
PMCID: PMC4652588
PMID: 24101450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2013 Oct 29;110(44):17732-7. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1312329110. Epub 2013 Oct 7.

Fast and accurate nonenzymatic copying of an RNA-like synthetic genetic polymer.

Zhang S(1), Blain JC, Zielinska D, Gryaznov SM, Szostak JW.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute and Department of Molecular Biology and 
Center for Computational and Integrative Biology, Massachusetts General 
Hospital, Boston, MA 02114.

Recent advances suggest that it may be possible to construct simple artificial 
cells from two subsystems: a self-replicating cell membrane and a 
self-replicating genetic polymer. Although multiple pathways for the growth and 
division of model protocell membranes have been characterized, no 
self-replicating genetic material is yet available. Nonenzymatic 
template-directed synthesis of RNA with activated ribonucleotide monomers has 
led to the copying of short RNA templates; however, these reactions are 
generally slow (taking days to weeks) and highly error prone. N3'-P5'-linked 
phosphoramidate DNA (3'-NP-DNA) is similar to RNA in its overall duplex 
structure, and is attractive as an alternative to RNA because the high 
reactivity of its corresponding monomers allows rapid and efficient copying of 
all four nucleobases on homopolymeric RNA and DNA templates. Here we show that 
both homopolymeric and mixed-sequence 3'-NP-DNA templates can be copied into 
complementary 3'-NP-DNA sequences. G:T and A:C wobble pairing leads to a high 
error rate, but the modified nucleoside 2-thiothymidine suppresses wobble 
pairing. We show that the 2-thiothymidine modification increases both 
polymerization rate and fidelity in the copying of a 3'-NP-DNA template into a 
complementary strand of 3'-NP-DNA. Our results suggest that 3'-NP-DNA has the 
potential to serve as the genetic material of artificial biological systems.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1312329110
PMCID: PMC3816440
PMID: 24101473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


211. J Feline Med Surg. 2014 Jun;16(6):532-5. doi: 10.1177/1098612X13507073. Epub
 2013 Oct 7.

Ventral occipito-atlanto-axial fluid-filled lesion causing dynamic spinal cord 
compression in a cat.

Gutierrez-Quintana R(1), Hammond G(2), Wessmann A(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, 
College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, UK 
rodrigo.gutierrezquintana@glasgow.ac.uk.
(2)Division of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, 
College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, UK.
(3)Division of Small Animal Clinical Sciences, School of Veterinary Medicine, 
College of Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, UK 
Pride Veterinary Centre, Derby, UK.

Cystic lesions affecting the vertebral canal or spinal cord have rarely been 
reported in cats. A 3-year-old female neutered domestic longhair cat presented 
for evaluation of a 2-year-history of episodes of ataxia and paresis affecting 
all limbs. Neurological examination was consistent with a lesion in the C1-C5 
spinal cord segments. Magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) showed a fluid-filled 
lesion at the occipito-atlanto-axial region causing dynamic spinal cord 
compression on flexion of the neck. The imaging characteristics were compatible 
with a juxta-articular cyst. To our knowledge, this is the first report of a 
fluid-filled lesion causing dynamic cervical spinal cord compression in a cat 
and highlights the importance of performing flexion-extension MRI views in 
diagnosing cases with dynamic spinal cord compression.

© ISFM and AAFP 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1098612X13507073
PMID: 24101745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Bull World Health Organ. 2013 Sep 1;91(9):630-9. doi: 10.2471/BLT.12.109710.

Global mortality trends and patterns in older women.

Stevens GA(1), Mathers CD, Beard JR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Statistics and Information Systems, World Health 
Organization, 20 avenue Appia, 1211 Geneva 27, Switzerland .

OBJECTIVE: To describe mortality patterns in women older than 50 years in light 
of the growth, seen in almost all countries, in the absolute number of females 
in this age group and in the proportion of the female population comprising 
older women.
METHODS: National death record data and World Health Organization estimates of 
life expectancy and causes of death in women older than 50 years were analysed. 
Projections of trends in mortality, by cause, at older ages were also made.
FINDINGS: In both developed and developing countries, the leading causes of 
death among older women were cardiovascular diseases and cancers. In countries 
with death registration data, cardiovascular and (to a lesser extent) cancer 
mortality appears to have declined in older women in recent decades and this 
decline has resulted in improved life expectancy at age 50. If these trends 
continue, deaths in older women are still expected to increase in number because 
of population growth and ageing.
CONCLUSION: Noncommunicable diseases, especially cardiovascular diseases and 
cancers, are expected to cause an increasing share of women's deaths in low- and 
middle-income countries owing to the ageing of the population and to reductions 
in child and maternal deaths. Health systems must adjust accordingly, perhaps by 
drawing on lessons from high-income countries that have succeeded in reducing 
mortality from noncommunicable diseases.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Décrire les modèles de mortalité chez les femmes âgées de 
plus de 50 ans, au vu de l'augmentation, observée dans presque tous les pays, du 
nombre absolu de femmes dans ce groupe d'âge et de la proportion de la 
population féminine composée de femmes âgées.
MÉTHODES: Les données nationales de mortalité et les estimations de 
l'Organisation mondiale de la Santé sur l'espérance de vie et les causes de 
décès chez les femmes âgées de plus de 50 ans ont été analysées. Des projections 
des tendances de mortalité par cause ont également été réalisées à des âges 
avancés.
RÉSULTATS: Dans les pays développés et en voie de développement, les principales 
causes de décès chez les femmes âgées étaient les maladies cardiovasculaires et 
les cancers. Dans les pays disposant de données d'enregistrement des décès, la 
mortalité due aux maladies cardiovasculaires et (dans une moindre mesure) aux 
cancers semble avoir diminué chez les femmes âgées au cours des dernières 
décennies, et cette baisse a entraîné une amélioration de l'espérance de vie à 
50 ans. Si ces tendances se maintiennent, les décès chez les femmes âgées sont 
encore susceptibles d'augmenter en nombre en raison de la croissance 
démographique et du vieillissement.
CONCLUSION: Les maladies non transmissibles, notamment les maladies 
cardiovasculaires et les cancers, pourraient être à l'origine de la mort d'un 
nombre de plus en plus important de femmes dans les pays à revenu faible et 
moyen en raison du vieillissement de la population et de la réduction de la 
mortalité infantile et maternelle. Les systèmes de santé doivent s'adapter en 
conséquence, peut-être en tirant les leçons des pays à revenu élevé, qui ont 
réussi à réduire la mortalité due aux maladies non transmissibles.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Describir los patrones de mortalidad en las mujeres mayores 
de 50 años a la vista del crecimiento observado, en casi todos los países, tanto 
en el número total de mujeres de dicho grupo de edad como en la proporción de la 
población femenina de edad más avanzada.
MÉTODOS: Se analizaron los datos nacionales de los registros de defunción y las 
estimaciones de la Organización Mundial de la Salud sobre la esperanza de vida y 
las causas de muerte entre las mujeres mayores de 50 años. Asimismo, se hicieron 
pronósticos sobre las tendencias de la mortalidad en función de la causa en 
edades más avanzadas.
RESULTADOS: Tanto en los países desarrollados como en los países en desarrollo, 
las principales causas de muerte entre las mujeres mayores fueron las 
enfermedades cardiovasculares y el cáncer. En los países con datos del registro 
de defunciones, la mortalidad por cáncer y, en menor medida, por enfermedades 
cardiovasculares parece haber disminuido en las mujeres mayores durante las 
últimas décadas. Esta disminución se ha traducido en una mejora de la esperanza 
de vida a los 50 años. Si estas tendencias continúan, se espera que el número de 
muertes en mujeres mayores aumente debido al crecimiento demográfico y al 
envejecimiento.
CONCLUSIÓN: Se espera que las enfermedades no transmisibles, especialmente las 
enfermedades cardiovasculares y el cáncer, aumenten la proporción de los 
fallecimientos entre las mujeres de países de ingresos bajos y medianos debido 
al envejecimiento de la población y a la reducción de muertes infantiles y 
maternas. En este sentido, es necesario adaptar los sistemas de salud, tal vez 
recurriendo a las lecciones de los países de ingresos altos que han tenido éxito 
en la reducción de la mortalidad por enfermedades no transmisibles.

Publisher: الغرض: وصف أنماط الوفيات لدى النساء اللاتي تزيد أعمارهن عن 50 عاماً 
في ضوء النمو، الذي يتم ملاحظته في جميع البلدان تقريباً، في العدد المطلق للإناث 
في هذه الفئة العمرية وفي نسبة السكان الإناث التي تشكلها النساء المسنات.
الطريقة: تم تحليل بيانات السجلات الوطنية للوفاة وتقديرات منظمة الصحة العالمية 
لمتوسط العمر المأمول وأسباب الوفاة لدى النساء اللاتي تزيد أعمارهن عن 50 عاماً. 
وتم كذلك إجراء توقعات للاتجاهات في الوفيات، حسب السبب، في الأعمار الأكبر سناً.
النتائج: في البلدان المتقدمة والنامية على حد سواء، كانت الأسباب الرئيسية للوفاة 
بين النساء المسنات هي الأمراض القلبية الوعائية والسرطان. وفي البلدان التي يتوفر 
بها بيانات عن تسجيل الوفيات، انخفضت، على ما يبدو، وفيات الأمراض القلبية الوعائية 
و(إلى حد أقل) السرطان لدى النساء المسنات في العقود الأخيرة، ونتج عن هذا الانخفاض 
تحسن متوسط العمر المأمول عند عمر 50 عاماً. وإذا استمرت هذه الاتجاهات، فسيظل من 
المتوقع ازدياد عدد الوفيات لدى النساء المسنات بسبب نمو السكان والشيخوخة.
الاستنتاج: من المتوقع أن تتسبب الأمراض غير السارية، وخاصة الأمراض القلبية 
الوعائية والسرطان، في ازدياد نسبة وفيات النساء في البلدان المنخفضة والمتوسطة 
الدخل وهو ما يُعزى إلى شيخوخة السكان والانخفاضات في وفيات الأطفال والأمهات. ويجب 
تعديل النظم الصحية وفقاً لذلك، وقد يكون ذلك عن طريق الاستفادة من دروس البلدان 
المرتفعة الدخل التي نجحت في خفض الوفيات الناجمة عن الأمراض غير السارية.

Publisher: 目的: 根据50 
岁以上年龄组妇女绝对数量以及由老年妇女组成的妇女人口所占比例的增长(几乎所有国家中都看到这种增长),说明此年龄组老年妇女的死亡率模式。
方法: 对50 岁以上妇女的国家死亡记录数据和世界卫生组织的预期寿命估计和死亡原因进行了分析。同时按原因对老年人的死亡率趋势做了预测。
结果: 
在发达国家和发展中国家,老年妇女的主要死亡原因是心血管疾病和癌症。在有死亡登记数据的国家中,最近几十年心血管和(在较小程度上)癌症死亡率似乎有所下降,这种下降提高了50 
岁人口的预期寿命。如果这种趋势保持下去,由于人口增长和老龄化,老年妇女的死亡数仍会有所增长。
结论: 
由于人口老龄化和儿童及孕产妇死亡率的降低,预计在中低收入国家非传染性疾病(尤其是心血管疾病和癌症)导致妇女死亡所占比例会越来越大。卫生系统必须进行相应的调整,也许可以借鉴成功降低非传染性疾病死亡率的高收入国家的经验。

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ: Описание структуры смертности среди женщин в возрасте старше 
50 лет, в свете роста, наблюдаемого почти во всех странах в абсолютном 
количестве женщин этой возрастной группы и в пропорции части женского населения, 
которую составляют женщины пожилого возраста
МЕТОДЫ: Были проанализированы данные национальных записей о смертях и расчеты 
средней продолжительности жизни, произведенные Всемирной организацией 
здравоохранения, а также случаи смерти женщин в возрасте старше 50 лет. Был 
произведен расчет предполагаемых показателей тенденций смертности с указанием 
причин смерти для пожилых людей.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Как в развитых, так и в развивающихся странах, основными причинами 
смертности среди пожилых женщин являются заболевания сердечно-сосудистой системы 
и рак. В странах, где ведется регистрация смертей, смертность от заболеваний 
сердечно-сосудистой системы и (в меньшей мере) от рака снизилась среди пожилых 
женщин за последние десятилетия, и это снижение привело к увеличению вероятной 
средней продолжительности жизни для лиц старше 50 лет. Если эти тенденции 
сохранятся, ожидается, что смертность пожилых женщин в абсолютных числах все 
равно будет возрастать по причине увеличения старения населения.
ВЫВОД: Ожидается, что доля неинфекционных заболеваний, особенно заболеваний 
сердечно-сосудистой системы и рака среди причин смерти женщин будет 
увеличиваться в странах с низким и средним уровнем дохода, по причине старения 
населения и снижения уровня детской и материнской смертности. Системы 
здравоохранения должны соответствующим образом адаптировать свою деятельность, 
возможно, переняв методы стран с более высоким уровнем дохода, которые успешно 
снижают уровень смертности от неинфекционных заболеваний.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.12.109710
PMCID: PMC3790210
PMID: 24101779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. J Thorac Dis. 2013 Sep;5 Suppl 4(Suppl 4):S413-9. doi: 
10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2013.09.04.

Malignant pleural effusion and algorithm management.

Zarogoulidis K(1), Zarogoulidis P, Darwiche K, Tsakiridis K, Machairiotis N, 
Kougioumtzi I, Courcoutsakis N, Terzi E, Zaric B, Huang H, Freitag L, Spyratos 
D.

Author information:
(1)Pulmonary Department-Oncology Unit, "G. Papanikolaou" General Hospital, 
Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, Thessaloniki, Greece;

Involvement of the pleura in lung cancer is a common manifestation accompanying 
with reduced life expectancy. Symptoms relief and improvement of the quality of 
life are the primary goals of the management of malignant pleural effusion 
(MPE). Histological confirmation is essential for optimal patient management. 
Lung cancer patients, with life expectancy more than 3 months, resistant to 
chemotherapy should be treated with thoracentesis, intercoastal tube drainage 
and installation of a sclerosant agent or pleurodesis through thoracospopic 
procedures or placement of an indwelling pleura catheter. Talc pleurodesis 
(sterile asbestos-free graded, particle size >15 μm), as "poudrage" or "slurry" 
still remains the treatment of choice in patients with MPE resistant to 
chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2013.09.04
PMCID: PMC3791493
PMID: 24102015


214. Evolution. 2014 Feb;68(2):595-604. doi: 10.1111/evo.12272. Epub 2013 Oct 9.

The ecology of sexual conflict: background mortality can modulate the effects of 
male manipulation on female fitness.

Bonduriansky R(1).

Author information:
(1)Evolution & Ecology Research Centre and School of Biological, Earth and 
Environmental Sciences, University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, 2052, 
Australia. r.bonduriansky@unsw.edu.au.

Sexual and parental conflicts can arise because males benefit by inducing 
elevated reproductive effort in their mates. For females, the costs of such 
manipulation are often manifested later in life, and may therefore covary with 
female life expectancy. Here, I outline a simple female life-history model where 
female life expectancy reflects extrinsic mortality rate, and elevated 
reproductive effort causes accelerated senescence. Using this model, I show that 
variation in extrinsic mortality rate can modulate the magnitude and sign of 
fitness effects that male manipulation has on females. This result has several 
interesting implications. First, it suggests that the fitness effects of sexual 
interactions can depend on ecological factors, such as predation, that influence 
life expectancy. Second, if mortality risk is condition-dependent but 
reproductive effort is not fully optimized in relation to individual condition, 
then sexual conflict intensity may increase with individual condition, selecting 
for condition-dependent reproductive strategies. Third, if males vary in 
manipulativeness, then the fitness effects of mating with a given male phenotype 
may depend on both female condition and extrinsic mortality rate. Fourth, life 
span extension in the laboratory can lead to overestimation of sexual and 
parental conflicts. Life expectancy may therefore be a key factor in sexual 
coevolution.

© 2013 The Author(s). Evolution © 2013 The Society for the Study of Evolution.

DOI: 10.1111/evo.12272
PMID: 24102073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. J Med Econ. 2013 Dec;16(12):1387-98. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.852097. Epub
 2013 Oct 25.

Economic analysis of bevacizumab, cetuximab, and panitumumab with 
fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy in the first-line treatment of KRAS 
wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC).

Lawrence D(1), Maschio M, Leahy KJ, Yunger S, Easaw JC, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, Burlington , ON , Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Colorectal cancer (CRC) is the third most commonly diagnosed cancer 
in Canada (excluding non-melanoma skin cancers). Bevacizumab is a recombinant 
humanized monoclonal antibody that selectively binds to human vascular 
endothelial growth factor. A sub-study confirmed its effectiveness in KRAS 
wild-type patients. Recent evidence has shown clinical benefit from 
anti-epidermal growth factor treatments cetuximab and panitumumab in these 
patients. The cost-effectiveness, to the Canadian healthcare system, of 
fluoropyrimidine-based chemotherapy (FBC) in combination with bevacizumab, 
cetuximab, or panitumumab was assessed for first-line treatment of KRAS 
wild-type mCRC patients.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed and calibrated to progression-free/overall 
survival, using separately reported trial survival and adverse event results for 
each comparator. Health-state resource utilization was derived from published 
data and oncologist input. Utilities and unit prices were obtained from 
published literature and standard Canadian sources.
RESULTS: Results per patient are over a lifetime horizon, to a maximum of 10 
years, with 5% annual discounting. Comparators are ordered by total cost and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of each is determined against the 
previous non-dominated therapy. Compared to FBC alone, bevacizumab + FBC has an 
ICER of $131,600 per QALY gained. Compared to bevacizumab + FBC, 
panitumumab + FBC is dominated and cetuximab + FBC has an ICER of $3.8 million 
per QALY. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, bevacizumab + FBC had ∼100%, 
∼100%, and 98.9% probabilities of being more cost-effective than both of the 
other combination treatments at thresholds of $50,000/QALY, $100,000/QALY, and 
$200,000/QALY, respectively.
CONCLUSION: For first-line treatment of KRAS-WT mCRC, bevacizumab + FBC is 
associated with substantially lower costs as compared to panitumumab + FBC or 
cetuximab + FBC. Key limitations were that survival curves and adverse event 
rates were taken from separate clinical trials and that an indirect comparison 
was not included. Given these findings, bevacizumab is likely to offer the best 
value for money for this patient population.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.852097
PMID: 24102083 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Contact Dermatitis. 2014 Mar;70(3):158-68. doi: 10.1111/cod.12130. Epub 2013
Sep  19.

Cost and quality of life in patients with severe chronic hand eczema refractory 
to standard therapy with topical potent corticosteroids.

Cortesi PA(1), Scalone L, Belisari A, Bonamonte D, Cannavò SP, Cristaudo A, De 
Pità O, Gallo R, Giannetti A, Gola M, Pigatto PD, Mantovani LG.

Author information:
(1)Research Centre on Public Health (CESP), University of Milan-Bicocca, 20052, 
Monza, Italy; CHARTA Foundation, 20122 Milano, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Little is known about the socio-economic burden of severe chronic 
hand eczema in patients refractory to treatment with potent corticosteroids.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the socio-economic burden of severe chronic hand eczema 
refractory to potent topical corticosteroids, and to establish an algorithm for 
the estimation of the health-related quality of life EuroQol five-dimensional 
(EQ-5D) utility index from the Dermatology Life Quality Index (DLQI) summary 
score.
METHODS: A multicentre cost of illness study was conducted, adopting the 
societal perspective. Adult patients with severe and refractory chronic hand 
eczema were enrolled. Direct (e.g. drug treatment and travel) and indirect (i.e. 
loss of productivity) mean costs/patient-month were estimated. Health-related 
quality of life was assessed with the EQ-5D and DLQI questionnaires. An ordinary 
least square regression model was used to investigate relationships between 
health-related quality of life scores.
RESULTS: One hundred and four valid patients (mean age 44.5 years, 39.4% male) 
participated. Overall mean costs were €418.3/patient-month: loss of productivity 
contributed 43.7%, followed by hospitalization (16.1%) and travel (10.3%). 
Health-related quality of life scores were, on average, 0.50 (EQ-5D utility) and 
11.3 (DLQI). Utility and DLQI summary were significantly related to each other.
CONCLUSIONS: Wellbeing and loss of productivity are the most important 
consequences in these patients. Appropriate treatment is necessary to improve 
patient health and productivity, which will contribute to reducing societal 
costs.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cod.12130
PMID: 24102212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2013 Nov;13(9):1412-8. doi: 
10.2174/18715206113136660363.

Management of elderly patients with diffuse large B-cell lymphomas.

Ciancia R(1), Tirelli U, Ribera J, Spina M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology A, National Cancer Institute of Aviano, Via 
Franco Gallini 2, 33081 Aviano (PN), Italy. mspina@cro.it.

Life expectancy has impressively increased over the past century and the US 
population over 65 years is rapidly growing, especially those over 80 years. In 
fact, persons older than 80 years have increased by more than 250% between the 
years 1960 and 2000, and it is expected that the population aged >75 years will 
triple by the year 2030. With the increase of the geriatric population, there is 
a need for the development and validation of treatment strategies for NHL for 
these patients. Therapy in elderly patients needs special attention because 
older patients usually suffered of several co-morbidities and their management 
represents a challenge for physicians. In fact, older patients treated for 
lymphoma may not tolerate the high-dose therapies used in younger patients and 
have increased risk of therapy-related toxicity as a result of age-related 
physiological changes and frequent co-morbidities. The widespread use of a 
comprehensive geriatric assessment tool might overcome the difficulty to run 
prospective clinical trial in elderly patients with lymphoma.

DOI: 10.2174/18715206113136660363
PMID: 24102270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2013 Nov;13(9):1419-29. doi: 
10.2174/18715206113136660357.

Autologus stem cell transplatation as a care option in elderly patients. A 
review.

Fratino L(1), Rupolo M, Mazzuccato M, Berretta M, Lleshi A, Tirelli U, Michieli 
M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology A, National Cancer Institute, Via Franco Gallini 
2, 33081 Aviano (PN), Italy. lfratino@cro.it.

The ageing population and the increase in life expectancy have put new social 
and health questions into the public health agenda of western countries. 
Hematological cancer incidence peaks in older population as a logical 
consequence of a longer lifespan promoting prolonged exposure to carcinogens and 
accumulation of genetic alterations. Hematological cancer represents a major 
cause of mortality in this age group despite recent progress observed in the 
management of cancer in the general population. Autologous stem cell 
transplantation (ASCT) represents a therapeutic option in the treatment of a 
large proportion of lymphomas and multiple myeloma, but their role in the 
onco-geriatric setting remains an open question, due to the presence of chronic 
disease. Ageing is characterized by progressive decrements in physiologic 
reserves and abilities to compensate for physical and/or functional limitations, 
which increase the risk of developing morbidity and disability. These events 
explains the extreme diversity of ageing individuals in terms of clinical and 
functional status. As a consequence, life expectancy in the elderly is 
influenced not only by the neoplastic diseases itself but also by the various 
co-morbidities common to this age group. The management of elderly people with 
hematological diseases potentially curative, should therefore combine both 
geriatric and tumor assessments. Among the elderly patients identified as being 
candidates for AHSCT, after the mobilization of progenitor cells from the bone 
marrow into the peripheral blood, the aphaeresis procedure is the most common 
method for collecting an adequate number of stem cells. The proper selection of 
patients may greatly improve the results and the toxicity related to cancer 
treatment in the elderly. We recommend the adoption of some form of geriatric 
assessment in the evaluation of any patient who is 70 years and older, this 
review intends to offer an overview of the state of art in ASCT in elderly 
patients.

DOI: 10.2174/18715206113136660357
PMID: 24102271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2013 Nov;13(9):1332-43. doi: 
10.2174/18715206113136660350.

Colorectal cancer in elderly patients: from best supportive care to cure.

Berretta M(1), Di Benedetto F, Di Francia R, Lo Menzo E, Palmeri S, De Paoli P, 
Tirelli U.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, National Cancer Institute, Via Franco Gallini 
2 - 33081 Aviano (PN) - Italy. mberretta@cro.it.

Colorectal cancer is one of the major causes of cancer mortality in the elderly 
population (median age at diagnosis of 71 years) in Western Countries. Moreover 
patients with metastatic disease are often elderly with significant co- 
morbidities. Unfortunately, elderly patients are often untreated and 
under-represented in clinical trials, even if most clinical trials that have 
included this setting of population have shown similar survival rates and 
toxicities to younger patients. Age itself should not be considered for 
candidacy to chemotherapy but it should be taken in consideration the great 
heterogeneity of co-morbidities present in the elderly population. Therefore, 
the best treatment strategy for elderly colorectal cancer patients has not yet 
been defined. Comprehensive Geriatric Assessment is recommended to evaluate the 
best strategy treatment and to reduce the adverse events. In fact, while fit 
elderly patients could receive the same therapeutic treatment as the younger 
counterpart, a palliative approach should be taken in consideration for frail 
elderly patients and for those with a short life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2174/18715206113136660350
PMID: 24102277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Anticancer Agents Med Chem. 2013 Nov;13(9):1300-9. doi: 
10.2174/18715206113136660343.

Geriatric evaluation of oncological elderly patients.

Malaguarnera M(1), Frazzetto PM, Erdogan O, Cappellani A, Cataudella E, Berretta 
M.

Author information:
(1)Research Center "The Great Senescence", University of Catania, 95125 Catania, 
Italy. paofrazzetto82@hotmail.it.

Cancer has a high prevalence in older age. The management of cancer in the older 
aged person is an increasingly common problem. Age may be construed as a 
progressive loss of stress tolerance, due to decline in functional reserve of 
multiple organ systems, high prevalence of comorbid conditions, limited 
socioeconomic support, reduced cognition, and higher prevalence of depression. 
In the elderly, the comorbidities and physiological changes in the 
pharmacokinetics reduce the prospective for therapy and suggest the importance 
of a multidimensional assessment of cancer patients as well as the formulation 
of predictive models of risk, in order to estimate the life expectancy and 
tolerance to treatment. The pharmacological changes of age include decreased 
renal excretion of drugs and increased susceptibility to myelosuppression, 
mucositis, cardio toxicity and neurotoxicity. The chemotherapy in patients older 
than 75 years is very limited. The geriatric assessment is considered a valid 
tool in geriatric medical. It is important for two main reasons: first of all, 
for the need to distinguish the features linked to the geriatric syndromes from 
those ones which are strictly connected to the cancer pathology; secondly, for 
its potential prognostic value.

DOI: 10.2174/18715206113136660343
PMID: 24102283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Eur J Clin Invest. 2013 Nov;43(11):1120-8. doi: 10.1111/eci.12149. Epub 2013
Sep  18.

Proposed score for survival of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes.

Sperr WR(1), Kundi M, Wimazal F, Nösslinger T, Schönmetzler-Makrai A, Stauder R, 
Krieger O, Neukirchen J, Germing U, Pfeilstöcker M, Valent P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Hemostaseology, Department of Internal Medicine I, 
Medical University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Patient selection for various therapies in myelodysplastic syndromes 
(MDS) is based on prognostic factors, scoring systems and the individual life 
expectancy. However, most established risk scores include mainly disease-related 
parameters and thus focus on leukaemia-transformation rather than survival.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: To establish a risk score optimized for prediction of 
survival, we analysed international prognostic scoring system (IPSS)-related and 
IPSS-independent variables in 400 patients with primary MDS (median age: 71 
years; range 18-91) of the Austrian MDS platform. Patients were randomly split 
into a learning sample (60%) and validation sample (40%). External validation 
was performed on 93 patients from the Heinrich Heine University 
(Duesseldorf/Germany).
RESULTS: By multivariate analysis, IPSS, ferritin, age and comorbidities were 
found to be independent predictive variables concerning survival. Based on 
weighing these prognostic parameters against each other, we established a novel 
survival score employing IPSS, ferritin (< 900 ng/mL = 0; ≥ 900 ng/mL = 1), age 
(< 70 years = 0; 70-79 years = 1; ≥ 80 years = 1.5) and HCT-CI comorbidity 
(low/intermediate = 0; high = 0.5). Using this score, four prognostic risk 
groups could be discriminated in the validation sample, with highly significant 
differences in life expectancy [median survival: LowS (score 0), not reached; 
Int-1S (score 0.5-1.0), 3.84 years; Int-2S (score 1.5-2.0): 2.72 years; and 
HighS (score > 2.0): 0.80 years; P < 0.0001].
CONCLUSIONS: Our newly proposed score may be a useful tool for survival 
prediction in MDS and helpful in patient selection for various therapies in 
daily practice and clinical trials.

© 2013 Stichting European Society for Clinical Investigation Journal Foundation. 
Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/eci.12149
PMID: 24102333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. FEMS Yeast Res. 2014 Feb;14(1):17-32. doi: 10.1111/1567-1364.12097. Epub
2013  Oct 11.

Molecular mechanisms linking the evolutionary conserved TORC1-Sch9 nutrient 
signalling branch to lifespan regulation in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Swinnen E(1), Ghillebert R, Wilms T, Winderickx J.

Author information:
(1)Functional Biology, KU Leuven, Heverlee, Belgium.

The knowledge on the molecular aspects regulating ageing in eukaryotic organisms 
has benefitted greatly from studies using the budding yeast Saccharomyces 
cerevisiae. Indeed, many aspects involved in the control of lifespan appear to 
be well conserved among species. Of these, the lifespan-extending effects of 
calorie restriction (CR) and downregulation of nutrient signalling through the 
target of rapamycin (TOR) pathway are prime examples. Here, we present an 
overview on the molecular mechanisms by which these interventions mediate 
lifespan extension in yeast. Several models have been proposed in the 
literature, which should be seen as complementary, instead of contradictory. 
Results indicate that CR mediates a large amount of its effect by downregulating 
signalling through the TORC1-Sch9 branch. In addition, we note that Sch9 is more 
than solely a downstream effector of TORC1, and documented connections with 
sphingolipid metabolism may be particularly interesting for future research on 
ageing mechanisms. As Sch9 comprises the yeast orthologue of the mammalian 
PKB/Akt and S6K1 kinases, future studies in yeast may continue to serve as an 
attractive model to elucidate conserved mechanisms involved in ageing and 
age-related diseases in humans.

© 2013 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/1567-1364.12097
PMID: 24102693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Clin Implant Dent Relat Res. 2015 Jan;17 Suppl 1:e275-86. doi: 
10.1111/cid.12154. Epub 2013 Sep 17.

Long-term evaluation of ANKYLOS® dental implants, part i: 20-year life table 
analysis of a longitudinal study of more than 12,500 implants.

Krebs M(1), Schmenger K, Neumann K, Weigl P, Moser W, Nentwig GH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral Surgery and Implantology, School of Dentistry (Carolinum), 
Johann Wolfgang Goethe-University Frankfurt am Main, Frankfurt am Main, Germany.

PURPOSE: Scientific evidence is limited regarding the long-term (>10 years) 
outcomes of large enough numbers of implants (>500) to allow for reliable 
comparison of subgroups. The purpose of this study was to analyze the outcomes 
of dental implants placed in an active University Clinic setting and followed 
for up to 20 years.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data documenting the implant placement, prosthetic 
reconstruction, and annual follow-up of patients treated at Frankfurt University 
were extracted from a Structured Query Language database and patients' written 
records and evaluated statistically.
RESULTS: Between April of 1991 and May of 2011, 12,737 ANKYLOS® (DENTSPLY 
Implants Manufacturing GmbH, Mannheim, Germany) implants were placed in 4,206 
patients for a variety of clinical indications. The Kaplan-Meier cumulative 
survival rate (CSR) was 93.3% after 204 months. Most of the failures (198/1.6%) 
occurred during the first year after implant placement and before prosthesis 
delivery. A significantly higher (p < .001) number of implants placed in the 
mandible and in hard quality bone failed than those placed in the maxilla or in 
weak and normal quality bone. Female patients had significantly higher CSRs 
(93.7% 204 months) than male patients (92.8% 204 months/p = .029). The implants 
showed low rates of peri-implant bone loss after 204 months (horizontal: ≤1 mm: 
85.7%, vertical: ≤1 mm: 85.2%).
CONCLUSION: ANKYLOS dental implants followed for up to 20 years have high CSRs 
and low rates of peri-implant bone loss.

© 2013 The Authors. Clinical Implant Dentistry and Related Research published by 
Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/cid.12154
PMID: 24103113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. BMC Psychiatry. 2013 Oct 8;13:249. doi: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-249.

Psychological distress and quality of life in older persons: relative 
contributions of fixed and modifiable risk factors.

Atkins J(1), Naismith SL, Luscombe GM, Hickie IB.

Author information:
(1)Brain & Mind Research Institute, University of Sydney, Camperdown, NSW 2050, 
Australia. Joanna@med.usyd.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: With a rapidly ageing population and increasing life expectancy, 
programs directed at improving the mental health and quality of life (QOL) of 
older persons are extremely important. This issue may be particularly relevant 
in the aged-care residential sector, where very high rates of depression and 
poor QOL are evident. This study aims to investigate the fixed and modifiable 
risk factors of psychological distress and QOL in a cohort of Australians aged 
60 and over living in residential and community settings.
METHODS: The study examined the relationship between demographic, health and 
lifestyle factors and the outcome variables of self-reported QOL and 
psychological distress (K10 scores) based on data from 626 Australians aged 60 
and over from the 45 and Up Study dataset. Univariate and multivariate 
regression analyses (performed on a subset of 496) examined risk factors related 
to psychological distress and QOL adjusting for age and residential status.
RESULTS: Significant psychological distress was experienced by 15% of the 
residential sample and 7% of the community sample and in multivariate analyses 
was predicted by older age, more functional limitations, more time spent 
sleeping and lower levels of social support (accounting for 18% of the 
variance). Poorer QOL was predicted by more functional limitations and greater 
levels of psychological distress. Together these variables accounted for 35% of 
the variance in QOL ratings.
CONCLUSIONS: While psychological distress was more common in residential 
settings, programs targeting modifiable risk factors have the potential to 
improve QOL and reduce psychological distress in older persons living in both 
residential and community settings. In particular, promoting health and 
mobility, optimising sleep-wake cycles and increasing social support may reduce 
levels of psychological distress and improve QOL.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-244X-13-249
PMCID: PMC3852717
PMID: 24103220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Biosoc Sci. 2014 Jul;46(4):531-45. doi: 10.1017/S0021932013000540. Epub
2013  Oct 8.

The risk of mothers losing an only child in China.

Jiang Q(1), Li Y(1), Sánchez-Barricarte JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)*Institute for Population and Development Studies,Xi'an Jiaotong 
University,China.
(2)†University Carlos III of Madrid,Spain.

China's one-child policy has been quite successful in bringing down the 
country's fertility level but has produced a large number of one-child families. 
The risk of one-child families losing their only child has not received enough 
attention. In this paper, using an extension of Goldman & Lord (1983)'s method 
to measure widowhood, period life-table data from China's 2000 population census 
are used to examine age-specific and cumulative probabilities of mothers losing 
their only child. It is found that a mother faces a 14.94% probability of losing 
a son, and 12.21% probability of losing a daughter. As the age of first-time 
mothers increases, the probability of losing a child declines. Urban and rural 
mothers have different indices regarding the loss of children. Based on these 
findings the prospects for China's one-child policy are discussed.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932013000540
PMCID: PMC5501093
PMID: 24103488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. J Health Econ. 2013 Dec;32(6):1057-65. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2013.08.006.
Epub  2013 Sep 3.

Prospect theory in the health domain: a quantitative assessment.

Attema AE(1), Brouwer WB, I'Haridon O.

Author information:
(1)iBMG/iMTA, Erasmus University, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: attema@bmg.eur.nl.

It is well-known that expected utility (EU) has empirical deficiencies. 
Cumulative prospect theory (CPT) has developed as an alternative with more 
descriptive validity. However, CPT's full function had not yet been quantified 
in the health domain. This paper is therefore the first to simultaneously 
measure utility of life duration, probability weighting, and loss aversion in 
this domain. We observe loss aversion and risk aversion for gains and losses, 
which for gains can be explained by probabilistic pessimism. Utility for gains 
is almost linear. For losses, we find less weighting of probability 1/2 and 
concave utility. This contrasts with the common finding of convex utility for 
monetary losses. However, CPT was proposed to explain choices among lotteries 
involving monetary outcomes. Life years are arguably very different from 
monetary outcomes and need not generate convex utility for losses. Moreover, 
utility of life duration reflects discounting, causing concave utility.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2013.08.006
PMID: 24103499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. BMC Nephrol. 2013 Oct 8;14:215. doi: 10.1186/1471-2369-14-215.

Cardiovascular risk and mortality in end-stage renal disease patients undergoing 
dialysis: sleep study, pulmonary function, respiratory mechanics, upper airway 
collapsibility, autonomic nervous activity, depression, anxiety, stress and 
quality of life: a prospective, double blind, randomized controlled clinical 
trial.

dos Reis Santos I(1), Danaga AR, de Carvalho Aguiar I, Oliveira EF, Dias IS, 
Urbano JJ, Martins AA, Ferraz LM, Fonsêca NT, Fernandes V, Fernandes VA, Lopes 
VC, Leitão Filho FS, Nacif SR, de Carvalho Pde T, Sampaio LM, Giannasi LC, 
