BACKGROUND: Exercise during hemodialysis treatments improves physical function, 
markers of cardiovascular disease and quality of life. However, exercise 
programs are not a part of standard therapy in the vast majority of hemodialysis 
clinics internationally. Hemodialysis unit-based accredited exercise 
physiologists may contribute to an increased intradialytic exercise uptake and 
improved physical function.
METHODS AND DESIGN: This is a stepped wedge cluster randomised controlled trial 
design. A total of 180 participants will be recruited from 15 community 
satellite hemodialysis clinics in a large metropolitan Australian city. Each 
clinic will represent a cluster unit. The stepped wedge design will consist of 
three groups each containing five randomly allocated cluster units, allocated to 
either 12, 24 or 36 weeks of the intervention. The intervention will consist of 
an accredited exercise physiologist-coordinated program consisting of six lower 
body resistance exercises using resistance elastic bands and tubing. The 
resistance exercises will include leg abduction, plantar flexion, dorsi flexion, 
straight-leg/bent-knee raise, knee extension and knee flexion. The resistance 
training will incorporate the principle of progressive overload and completed in 
a seated position during the first hour of hemodialysis treatment. The primary 
outcome measure is objective physical function measured by the 30-second sit to 
stand test. Secondary outcome measures include the 8-foot timed-up-and-go test, 
the four square step test, quality of life, cost-utility analysis, uptake and 
involvement in community activity, self-reported falls, fall's confidence, 
medication use, blood pressure and morbidity (hospital admissions).
DISCUSSION: The results of this study are expected to determine the efficacy of 
an accredited exercise physiologist supervised resistance training on the 
physical function of people receiving hemodialysis and the cost-utility of 
exercise physiologists in hemodialysis centres. This may contribute to 
intradialytic exercise as standard therapy using an exercise physiologist 
workforce model.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ACTRN12612001223820.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2369-14-204
PMCID: PMC3850647
PMID: 24070232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. BMC Nurs. 2013 Sep 26;12(1):23. doi: 10.1186/1472-6955-12-23.

Patient experiences of recovery after heart valve replacement: suffering 
weakness, struggling to resume normality.

Berg SK(1), Zwisler AD, Pedersen BD, Haase K, Sibilitz KL.

Author information:
(1)Rigshospitalet, The Heart Center, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, 
Denmark. Selina@rh.dk.

BACKGROUND: Heart valve disease is becoming a public health problem due to 
increasing life expectancy and new treatment methods. Patients are at risk of 
developing depression, anxiety or post-traumatic stress disorder after heart 
valve surgery. To better plan proper care, describing and understanding 
patients' perception of recovery after heart valve replacement is essential. The 
objective was to describe the experience of recovery at home after heart valve 
replacement.
METHODS: Qualitative interviews were conducted with 10 patients representing the 
population and these were later transcribed. The analysis was inspired by 
Ricoeur's theory of interpretation, which consists of three levels: naive 
reading, structured analysis, and critical interpretation and discussion.
RESULTS: The overall concept that emerged was suffering weakness and struggling 
to resume normality. Patients all struggled to resume normal living, both in 
regaining physical strength and in reestablishing balance in overall living. The 
overall concept can be interpreted in terms of the following themes: Disturbed 
network: Invaluable relatives, Contact with healthcare staff, Rehabilitation. 
Disturbed body: Stressful complications, Bodily attention, Physically affected, 
Physical capability. Recovery: Interrupted living, Suffering weakness, Gradual 
recovery, Achieving normality. Reflections: Thoughts about the procedure and 
Feeling sad and fragile.
CONCLUSION: The study presents the main themes of network, body, recovery and 
reflection for ten patients after heart valve replacement. These main themes can 
overall be summarized as suffering weakness and struggling to resume normality. 
Patients felt weak with a changed body, but after a long recovery process 
regained vitality and returned to their daily life.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6955-12-23
PMCID: PMC3849933
PMID: 24070399


130. BMC Health Serv Res. 2013 Sep 26;13:359. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-359.

Health economic evaluation of vaccination strategies for the prevention of 
herpes zoster and postherpetic neuralgia in Germany.

Ultsch B(1), Weidemann F, Reinhold T, Siedler A, Krause G, Wichmann O.

Author information:
(1)Immunisation Unit, Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany. UltschB@rki.de.

BACKGROUND: Herpes zoster (HZ) is a self-limiting painful skin rash affecting 
mostly individuals from 50 years of age. The main complication is postherpetic 
neuralgia (PHN), a long-lasting pain after rash has resolved. A HZ-vaccine has 
recently been licensed in Europe for individuals older than 50 years. To support 
an informed decision-making for a potential vaccination recommendation, we 
conducted a health economic evaluation to identify the most cost-effective 
vaccination strategy.
METHODS: We developed a static Markov-cohort model, which compared a 
vaccine-scenario with no vaccination. The cohort entering the model was 50 years 
of age, vaccinated at age 60, and stayed over life-time in the model. Transition 
probabilities were based on HZ/PHN-epidemiology and demographic data from 
Germany, as well as vaccine efficacy (VE) data from clinical trials. Costs for 
vaccination and HZ/PHN-treatment (in Euros; 2010), as well as outcomes were 
discounted equally with 3% p.a. We accounted results from both, payer and 
societal perspective. We calculated benefit-cost-ratio (BCR), 
number-needed-to-vaccinate (NNV), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) for costs per HZ-case avoided, per PHN-case avoided, and per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. Different target age-groups were 
compared to identify the most cost-effective vaccination strategy. 
Base-case-analysis as well as structural, descriptive-, and 
probabilistic-sensitivity-analyses (DSA, PSA) were performed.
RESULTS: When vaccinating 20% of a cohort of 1 million 50 year old individuals 
at the age of 60 years, approximately 20,000 HZ-cases will be avoided over 
life-time. The NNV to avoid one HZ (PHN)-case was 10 (144). However, with a BCR 
of 0.34 this vaccination-strategy did not save costs. The base-case-analysis 
yielded an ICER of 1,419 (20,809) Euros per avoided HZ (PHN)-case and 28,146 
Euros per QALY gained. Vaccination at the age of 60 was identified in most 
(sensitivity) analyses to be the most cost-effective vaccination strategy. In 
DSA, vaccine price and VE were shown to be the most critical input-data.
CONCLUSIONS: According to our evaluation, HZ-vaccination is expected to avoid 
HZ/PHN-cases and gain QALYs to higher costs. However, the vaccine price had the 
highest impact on the ICERs. Among different scenarios, targeting individuals 
aged 60 years seems to represent the most cost-effective vaccination-strategy.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-359
PMCID: PMC3849436
PMID: 24070414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Sci Rep. 2013 Sep 27;3:2777. doi: 10.1038/srep02777.

Density dependence in Caenorhabditis larval starvation.

Artyukhin AB(1), Schroeder FC, Avery L.

Author information:
(1)1] Boyce Thompson Institute and Department of Chemistry and Chemical Biology, 
Cornell University, Ithaca, NY 14850, USA [2] Department of Physiology and 
Biophysics, Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA 23298, USA.

Availability of food is often a limiting factor in nature. Periods of food 
abundance are followed by times of famine, often in unpredictable patterns. 
Reliable information about the environment is a critical ingredient of 
successful survival strategy. One way to improve accuracy is to integrate 
information communicated by other organisms. To test whether such exchange of 
information may play a role in determining starvation survival strategies, we 
studied starvation of L1 larvae in C. elegans and other Caenorhabditis species. 
We found that some species in genus Caenorhabditis, including C. elegans, 
survive longer when starved at higher densities, while for others survival is 
independent of the density. The density effect is mediated by chemical signal(s) 
that worms release during starvation. This starvation survival signal is 
independent of ascarosides, a class of small molecules widely used in chemical 
communication of C. elegans and other nematodes.

DOI: 10.1038/srep02777
PMCID: PMC3784960
PMID: 24071624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Acad Med. 2013 Nov;88(11):1630-4. doi: 10.1097/ACM.0b013e3182a7f071.

Attitude adjustment: shaping medical students' perceptions of older patients 
with a geriatrics curriculum.

Bensadon BA(1), Teasdale TA, Odenheimer GL.

Author information:
(1)Dr. Bensadon is adjunct instructor, Donald W. Reynolds Department of 
Geriatric Medicine, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, Oklahoma 
City, Oklahoma. Dr. Teasdale is professor and vice chair, Donald W. Reynolds 
Department of Geriatric Medicine, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 
Oklahoma City, Oklahoma. Dr. Odenheimer is associate professor and clerkship 
director, Donald W. Reynolds Department of Geriatric Medicine, University of 
Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, and staff physician, Oklahoma City VA Medical 
Center, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma.

For more than half a century, scientific research has documented widespread 
avoidance and even denial of aging. Though nothing new, aversive reactions to 
the elderly are not only unfortunate but dangerous today, as increasing life 
expectancy and consequent demand for specialized geriatric medical care vastly 
outpace the supply of qualified clinicians equipped to provide it. This 
discrepancy has led to a crisis that is not easily resolved. At the same time, 
geriatrics reports the highest level of physician satisfaction among medical 
specialties. How can this apparent disconnect be explained, and what can be done 
about it? Citing evidence from medicine and other health care disciplines, the 
authors address these questions by emphasizing the role of aging-related 
attitudes, a complex but theoretically modifiable construct. Successful 
educational interventions are described, including the authors' experience at 
the helm of a monthlong geriatrics clerkship for fourth-year medical students. 
Novel suggestions are provided to combat the daunting challenges to achieving a 
workforce that is sufficient both in number and training to effectively meet the 
needs of the fastest-growing segment of the U.S. population. As patients 
continue to age across most medical specialties, the importance of geriatric 
curricula, particularly those sensitizing learners to the need for a 
systems-based, biopsychosocial (i.e., interdisciplinary) model of care, cannot 
be overemphasized. Such training, it is argued, should be a standard component 
of medical education, and future research should focus on identifying specific 
curricular content and teaching methods that most effectively achieve this end.

DOI: 10.1097/ACM.0b013e3182a7f071
PMID: 24072114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Lifetime Data Anal. 2014 Oct;20(4):514-37. doi: 10.1007/s10985-013-9280-6.
Epub  2013 Sep 27.

Nonparametric estimation with recurrent competing risks data.

Taylor LL(1), Peña EA.

Author information:
(1)Elon University, Campus Box 2320, Elon, NC, 27244, USA, ltaylor18@elon.edu.

Nonparametric estimators of component and system life distributions are 
developed and presented for situations where recurrent competing risks data from 
series systems are available. The use of recurrences of components' failures 
leads to improved efficiencies in statistical inference, thereby leading to 
resource-efficient experimental or study designs or improved inferences about 
the distributions governing the event times. Finite and asymptotic properties of 
the estimators are obtained through simulation studies and analytically. The 
detrimental impact of parametric model misspecification is also vividly 
demonstrated, lending credence to the virtue of adopting nonparametric or 
semiparametric models, especially in biomedical settings. The estimators are 
illustrated by applying them to a data set pertaining to car repairs for 
vehicles that were under warranty.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-013-9280-6
PMCID: PMC4087092
PMID: 24072583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Lifetime Data Anal. 2015 Jan;21(1):138-55. doi: 10.1007/s10985-013-9282-4.
Epub  2013 Sep 27.

Simple estimation procedures for regression analysis of interval-censored 
failure time data under the proportional hazards model.

Sun J(1), Feng Y, Zhao H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO, USA.

Interval-censored failure time data occur in many fields including 
epidemiological and medical studies as well as financial and sociological 
studies, and many authors have investigated their analysis (Sun, The statistical 
analysis of interval-censored failure time data, 2006; Zhang, Stat Modeling 
9:321-343, 2009). In particular, a number of procedures have been developed for 
regression analysis of interval-censored data arising from the proportional 
hazards model (Finkelstein, Biometrics 42:845-854, 1986; Huang, Ann Stat 
24:540-568, 1996; Pan, Biometrics 56:199-203, 2000). For most of these 
procedures, however, one drawback is that they involve estimation of both 
regression parameters and baseline cumulative hazard function. In this paper, we 
propose two simple estimation approaches that do not need estimation of the 
baseline cumulative hazard function. The asymptotic properties of the resulting 
estimates are given, and an extensive simulation study is conducted and 
indicates that they work well for practical situations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-013-9282-4
PMID: 24072584 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2013 Nov;471(11):3426-36. doi:
10.1007/s11999-013-3265-3.

Stakeholders in outcome measures: review from a clinical perspective.

Brinker MR(1), O'Connor DP.

Author information:
(1)Fondren Orthopedic Group, Texas Orthopedic Hospital, 7401 S Main Street, 
Houston, TX, USA, dano@jwkoi.com.

Modern interest in patient-reported outcomes measures (PROMs) in orthopaedics 
dates back to the mid-1980s. While gradual growth of activity in this area has 
occurred over the past 25 years, the extent to which this research methodology 
is applied in clinical practice to improve patient care is unclear. WHERE ARE WE 
NOW?: Historically, clinical research in orthopaedics has focused on the 
technical success of treatment, and objective indicators such as mortality, 
morbidity, and complications. By contrast, the PROMs framework focuses on 
effects of treatment described in terms of relief of symptoms, restoring 
functional ability, and improving quality of life. PROMs can be used to study 
the relative effects of disease, injury, and treatment across different health 
conditions. WHERE DO WE NEED TO GO?: All clinical research should begin with 
identifying clear and meaningful research questions so that the resources and 
efforts required for data collection result in useful data. Different consumers 
of research data have different perspectives on what comprises meaningful 
information. Involving stakeholders such as patients, providers, payers, and 
policy-makers when defining priorities in the larger research endeavor is one 
way to inform what type of data should be collected in a particular study. HOW 
DO WE GET THERE?: Widespread collection of outcomes data would potentially aid 
these stakeholders by identifying best practices, benefits and costs, and 
important patient or practice characteristics related to outcomes. Several 
initiatives currently underway may help systematic collection of PROMs, create 
efficient systems, and foster collaborations to provide support and resources to 
minimize costs.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-013-3265-3
PMCID: PMC3792283
PMID: 24072624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. PLoS One. 2013 Sep 20;8(9):e74294. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074294. 
eCollection 2013.

Development of methodology for disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) 
calculation based on real-life data.

Struijk EA(1), May AM, Beulens JW, de Wit GA, Boer JM, Onland-Moret NC, van der 
Schouw YT, Bueno-de-Mesquita HB, Hoekstra J, Peeters PH.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands ; National Institute for Public Health and the 
Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) have the advantage that 
effects on total health instead of on a specific disease incidence or mortality 
can be estimated. Our aim was to address several methodological points related 
to the computation of DALYs at an individual level in a follow-up study.
METHODS: DALYs were computed for 33,507 men and women aged 20-70 years when 
participating in the EPIC-NL study in 1993-7. DALYs are the sum of the Years 
Lost due to Disability (YLD) and the Years of Life Lost (YLL) due to premature 
mortality. Premature mortality was defined as death before the estimated date of 
individual Life Expectancy (LE). Different methods to compute LE were compared 
as well as the effect of different follow-up periods using a two-part model 
estimating the effect of smoking status on health as an example.
RESULTS: During a mean follow-up of 12.4 years, there were 69,245 DALYs due to 
years lived with a disease or premature death. Current-smokers had lost 1.28 
healthy years of their life (1.28 DALYs 95%CI 1.10; 1.46) compared to 
never-smokers. The outcome varied depending on the method used for estimating 
LE, completeness of disease and mortality ascertainment and notably the 
percentage of extinction (duration of follow-up) of the cohort.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that the use of DALYs in a cohort study is an 
appropriate way to assess total disease burden in relation to a determinant. The 
outcome is sensitive to the LE calculation method and the follow-up duration of 
the cohort.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0074294
PMCID: PMC3779209
PMID: 24073206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


137. Injury. 2013 Dec;44(12):1871-9. doi: 10.1016/j.injury.2013.08.012. Epub 2013
Aug  30.

Cost effectiveness of tibial nonunion treatment: A comparison between rhBMP-7 
and autologous bone graft in two Italian centres.

Giorgio Calori M(1), Capanna R, Colombo M, De Biase P, O'Sullivan C, Cartareggia 
V, Conti C.

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Reparative Surgery Department, G. Pini Institute, University of 
Milan, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: gmc@studiocalori.it.

Current evidences show that recombinant human bone morphogenetic protein 7 
(rhBMP-7, eptotermin alfa) can be considered an effective alternative to 
autologous bone graft (ABG) in the treatment of tibial nonunions. Few studies, 
so far, have analysed the costs of treating tibial nonunions with either rhBMP-7 
or ABG and none of them has specifically considered the Italian situation. The 
aim of the present study was to capture, through observational retrospective 
methods, the direct medical costs associated with the treatment of tibial 
nonunions with rhBMP-7 or ABG in Italy and to compare the cost effectiveness of 
the two interventions. The secondary objective was to perform a 
cost-reimbursement analysis for hospitalisations associated with the two 
treatments. Data of 54 patients with indication for tibial nonunion were 
collected from existing data sources. Of these patients, 26 were treated with 
ABG and 28 with rhBMP-7. The study captured the direct medical costs for 
treating each tibial nonunion, considering both inpatient and outpatient care. 
The hospital reimbursement was calculated from discharge registries, based on 
diagnosis-related group (DRG) values. A subgroup of patients (n=30) was also 
interviewed to capture perceived health during the follow-up, and the 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were subsequently computed. The two groups 
were similar for what concerns baseline characteristics. While the medical costs 
incurred during the hospitalisation associated with treatment were on average 
€3091.21 higher (P<0.001) in patients treated with rhBMP-7 (reflecting the 
product procurement costs), the costs incurred during the follow-up were on 
average €2344.45 higher (P=0.02) in patients treated with ABG. Considering all 
costs incurred from the treatment, there was a borderline statistical evidence 
(P=0.04) for a mean increase of €795.42, in the rhBMP-7 group. Furthermore, the 
study demonstrated that, without appropriate reimbursement, the hospital 
undergoes significant losses (P=0.003) when using rhBMP-7 instead of ABG. In 
contrast to these losses, in Italy, the average cost to achieve a successful 
outcome was €488.96 lower in patients treated with rhBMP-7 and, additionally, 
the cost per QALY gained was below the cost-utility threshold of $50,000.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.injury.2013.08.012
PMID: 24074829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Hum Mov Sci. 2014 Feb;33:108-19. doi: 10.1016/j.humov.2013.07.021. Epub 2013
Sep  26.

Intra-limb coordination in karate kicking: Effect of impacting or not impacting 
a target.

Quinzi F(1), Sbriccoli P(2), Alderson J(3), Di Mario A(4), Camomilla V(5).

Author information:
(1)Exercise Physiology Laboratory, Department of Movement, Human and Health 
Sciences, University of Rome "Foro Italico", Piazza Lauro De Bosis 15, 00135 
Rome, Italy. Electronic address: fquinzi@libero.it.
(2)Exercise Physiology Laboratory, Department of Movement, Human and Health 
Sciences, University of Rome "Foro Italico", Piazza Lauro De Bosis 15, 00135 
Rome, Italy. Electronic address: paola.sbriccoli@uniroma4.it.
(3)School of Sport Science Exercise and Health, Faculty of Life and Physical 
Sciences, The University of Western Australia M408, 35 Stirling Highway, 
Crawley, WA 6009, Australia. Electronic address: jacqueline.alderson@uwa.edu.au.
(4)FIJLKAM - National Judo, Karate, Wrestling and Martial Arts Federation, via 
dei sandolini 79, 00122 Rome, Italy. Electronic address: 
a.dimario@fastwebnet.it.
(5)Locomotor Apparatus Bioengineering Laboratory, Department of Movement, Human 
and Health Sciences, University of Rome "Foro Italico", Piazza Lauro De Bosis 
15, 00135 Rome, Italy. Electronic address: valentina.camomilla@uniroma4.it.

This study aimed to investigate the kicking limb coordinative patterns adopted 
by karate practitioners (karateka) when impacting (IRK), or not impacting (NIRK) 
a target during a roundhouse kick. Six karateka performed three repetitions of 
both kicks while kicking limb kinematics were recorded using a 
stereophotogrammetric system. Intra-limb coordination was quantified for hip and 
knee flexion-extension from toe-off to kick completion, using the Continuous 
relative phase (CRP). Across the same time interval, thigh and shank angular 
momentum about the vertical axis of the body was calculated. For all trials, 
across all participants, CRP curve peaks and maximum and minimum angular 
momentum were determined. A RM-ANOVA was performed to test for differences 
between kicking conditions. The CRP analysis highlighted, during the central 
portion of both kicks, a delayed flexion of the hip with respect to the knee. 
Conversely, during the terminal portion of the CRP curves, the NIRK is performed 
with a more in-phase action, caused by a higher hip angular displacement. The 
NIRK is characterized by a lower angular momentum which may enhance control of 
the striking limb. It would seem that the issue of no impact appears to be 
solved through the control of all segments of the kicking limb, in contrast to 
the primary control of the lower leg only observed during the IRK.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.humov.2013.07.021
PMID: 24074907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2013 Nov 1;87(3):437-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2013.08.017.

Radiation oncologists, mortality, and treatment choices.

Ellsworth S(1), Smith T, Lutz S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology and Program of Palliative Medicine, John 
Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland.

Comment on
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2013 Nov 1;87(3):471-8.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2013.08.017
PMID: 24074915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2013 Nov 1;87(3):471-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2013.06.2046.

How radiation oncologists evaluate and incorporate life expectancy estimates 
into the treatment of palliative cancer patients: a survey-based study.

Tseng YD(1), Krishnan MS, Sullivan AJ, Jones JA, Chow E, Balboni TA.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Radiation Oncology Program, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic 
address: ydtseng@partners.org.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2013 Nov 1;87(3):437-9.

PURPOSE: We surveyed how radiation oncologists think about and incorporate a 
palliative cancer patient's life expectancy (LE) into their treatment 
recommendations.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A 41-item survey was e-mailed to 113 radiation oncology 
attending physicians and residents at radiation oncology centers within the 
Boston area. Physicians estimated how frequently they assessed the LE of their 
palliative cancer patients and rated the importance of 18 factors in formulating 
LE estimates. For 3 common palliative case scenarios, physicians estimated LE 
and reported whether they had an LE threshold below which they would modify 
their treatment recommendation. LE estimates were considered accurate when 
within the 95% confidence interval of median survival estimates from an 
established prognostic model.
RESULTS: Among 92 respondents (81%), the majority were male (62%), from an 
academic practice (75%), and an attending physician (70%). Physicians reported 
assessing LE in 91% of their evaluations and most frequently rated performance 
status (92%), overall metastatic burden (90%), presence of central nervous 
system metastases (75%), and primary cancer site (73%) as "very important" in 
assessing LE. Across the 3 cases, most (88%-97%) had LE thresholds that would 
alter treatment recommendations. Overall, physicians' LE estimates were 22% 
accurate with 67% over the range predicted by the prognostic model.
CONCLUSIONS: Physicians often incorporate LE estimates into palliative cancer 
care and identify important prognostic factors. Most have LE thresholds that 
guide their treatment recommendations. However, physicians overestimated patient 
survival times in most cases. Future studies focused on improving LE assessment 
are needed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2013.06.2046
PMCID: PMC4435719
PMID: 24074920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: none.


141. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2014 Jul;148(1):113-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.07.054. Epub 2013 Sep 26.

Surgical treatment of primary pulmonary artery sarcoma.

Grazioli V(1), Vistarini N(1), Morsolini M(1), Klersy C(2), Orlandoni G(1), Dore 
R(3), D'Armini AM(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo and Pavia 
University School of Medicine, Pavia, Italy.
(2)Service of Biometrics and Statistics, IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, 
Italy.
(3)Division of Radiology, IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo, Pavia, Italy.
(4)Division of Cardiothoracic Surgery, IRCCS Policlinico San Matteo and Pavia 
University School of Medicine, Pavia, Italy. Electronic address: 
darmini@smatteo.pv.it.

OBJECTIVE: Primary pulmonary artery sarcoma is a severe and underdiagnosed 
disease, with the clinical and surgical approach not clearly established. Only a 
few individual case reports or small series on this topic have been published. 
The aim of the present study was to report our surgical experience in this 
field.
METHODS: From March 2004 to December 2012, 13 patients underwent surgery for 
pulmonary artery sarcoma at our institution. In 7 patients, the sarcoma was 
unilateral (53.8%), and in 6 (46.2%), the tumor had already extended to both 
lungs. The surgical strategy evolved over the years, but the 2 techniques used 
were always the same: pneumonectomy in 5 patients and pulmonary endarterectomy 
in 8.
RESULTS: Two patients died in-hospital, both in the pneumonectomy group. The 
median length of the intensive care unit and hospital stay was 1 day (range, 
1-10) and 14 days (range, 11-17) for the pneumonectomy group and 6 days (range, 
3-23) and 19 days (range, 10-32) fort the pulmonary endarterectomy group, 
respectively. The median survival was 26.8 months after pneumonectomy and 6.6 
months after pulmonary endarterectomy.
CONCLUSIONS: Primary pulmonary artery sarcoma has a poor prognosis. The surgical 
strategy at our institution included pneumonectomy, for possible radical 
resection, and palliative endarterectomy, to reduce symptoms and increase the 
life expectancy. The correct surgical approach must be evaluated individually, 
according to the tumor presentation, the presence of pulmonary hypertension, and 
the patient's clinical condition.

Copyright © 2014 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.07.054
PMID: 24075471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. J Chin Med Assoc. 2013 Dec;76(12):703-14. doi: 10.1016/j.jcma.2013.08.003.
Epub  2013 Sep 25.

Readmission, mortality, and first-year medical costs after stroke.

Lee HC(1), Chang KC, Huang YC, Hung JW, Chiu HH, Chen JJ, Lee TH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy and Assistive Technology, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC; Exercise and Health Science Research Center, 
National Yang-Ming University, Taipei, Taiwan, ROC.

BACKGROUND: Stroke is the leading cause of adult disability and mortality in 
Taiwan, resulting in a tremendous burden on the healthcare system. The purpose 
of this study was to characterize disease burden by evaluating readmissions, 
mortality, and medical cost during the first year after acute stroke under the 
National Health Insurance (NHI) program.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study extracted information about patients 
hospitalized with acute stroke from claims data of 200,000 randomly sampled NHI 
enrollees in Taiwan, with a 1-year follow-up duration. The incidence of the 
first-year adverse events (AEs) indicated by readmissions or mortality, and the 
amount of the first-year medical cost (FYMC) were assessed with predictive 
factors explored. Additionally, we also estimated the cost per life and 
life-year saved.
RESULTS: There were 2368 first-ever stroke patients in our study, including 
those with subarachnoid hemorrhage (SAH) 3.3%, intracerebral hemorrhage (ICH) 
17.9%, ischemic stroke (IS) 49.8%, and transient ischemic attack/other 
ill-defined cerebrovascular diseases (TIA/unspecified) 29.0%; each stroke type 
was identified with an all-cause AE of 59.0%, 63.0%, 48.6%, and 46.8%, 
respectively. Readmissions were mainly because of acute recurrent stroke or the 
late effects of previous stroke, respiratory disease/infections, 
heart/circulatory disease, and diseases of the digestive system. Advanced age, 
hemorrhagic stroke type, respiratory distress/infections, and greater 
comorbidities were predictive of increased AE risk. Admission to 
neurology/rehabilitation wards, undertaking neurosurgery, or use of 
inpatient/outpatient rehabilitation was less likely to incur AEs. Initial 
hospitalization, readmission, and ambulatory care constituted 44%, 29%, and 27%, 
respectively, of FYMC with the initial length of stay being the most reliable 
predictor. The FYMCs were NT $217,959, $246,358, $168,003, and $122,084 for SAH, 
ICH, IS, and TIA/unspecified, respectively. The cost per life saved were 
estimated to be NT $435,919, $384,028, $196,281, and $138,888, whereas cost per 
life-year saved were estimated to be NT$43,926, $48,019, $97,830, and $188,770 
for SAH, ICH, IS, and TIA/unspecified, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Half of the patients encountered readmission or death during the 
first year after stroke. Patients with advanced age, more complications, or 
comorbidities during initial stay tended to be highly vulnerable to AE 
occurrence, whereas TIA/unspecified stroke carried no less risk for AEs. FYMC or 
estimated cost per life saved for IS or TIA/unspecified was lower relative to 
SAH or ICH; however, their estimated cost per life-year saved became higher 
because of reduced life expectancy.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcma.2013.08.003
PMID: 24075791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. Ageing Res Rev. 2013 Sep;12(4):931-40. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.09.002. Epub
2013  Sep 25.

Circadian aspects of energy metabolism and aging.

Froy O(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry, Food Science and Nutrition, Robert H. Smith 
Faculty of Agriculture, Food and Environment, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Rehovot 76100, Israel. Electronic address: oren.froy@mail.huji.ac.il.

Life span extension has been a goal of research for several decades. Resetting 
circadian rhythms leads to well being and increased life span, while clock 
disruption is associated with increased morbidity accelerated aging. Increased 
longevity and improved health can be achieved by different feeding regimens that 
reset circadian rhythms and may lead to better synchrony in metabolism and 
physiology. This review focuses on the circadian aspects of energy metabolism 
and their relationship with aging in mammals.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.09.002
PMID: 24075855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2014 Jun;69(6):633-9. doi:
10.1093/gerona/glt134.  Epub 2013 Sep 27.

What is the main driver of ageing in long-lived winter honeybees: antioxidant 
enzymes, innate immunity, or vitellogenin?

Aurori CM(1), Buttstedt A(2), Dezmirean DS(1), Mărghitaş LA(1), Moritz RF(3), 
Erler S(4).

Author information:
(1)Departamentul de Tehnologii Apicole şi Sericicole, Universitatea de Ştiinţe 
Agricole şi Medicină Veterinară, 400372 Cluj-Napoca, Romania.
(2)Departamentul de Tehnologii Apicole şi Sericicole, Universitatea de Ştiinţe 
Agricole şi Medicină Veterinară, 400372 Cluj-Napoca, Romania. Institut für 
Biologie, Molekulare Ökologie, Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg, 06099 
Halle (Saale), Germany.
(3)Departamentul de Tehnologii Apicole şi Sericicole, Universitatea de Ştiinţe 
Agricole şi Medicină Veterinară, 400372 Cluj-Napoca, Romania. Institut für 
Biologie, Molekulare Ökologie, Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg, 06099 
Halle (Saale), Germany. Department of Zoology and Entomology, University of 
Pretoria, Pretoria 0002, South Africa.
(4)Departamentul de Tehnologii Apicole şi Sericicole, Universitatea de Ştiinţe 
Agricole şi Medicină Veterinară, 400372 Cluj-Napoca, Romania. Institut für 
Biologie, Molekulare Ökologie, Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg, 06099 
Halle (Saale), Germany. erler.silvio@gmail.com.

To date five different theories compete in explaining the biological mechanisms 
of senescence or ageing in invertebrates. Physiological, genetical, and 
environmental mechanisms form the image of ageing in individuals and groups. 
Social insects, especially the honeybee Apis mellifera, present exceptional 
model systems to study developmentally related ageing. The extremely high 
phenotypic plasticity for life expectancy resulting from the female caste system 
provides a most useful system to study open questions with respect to ageing. 
Here, we used long-lived winter worker honeybees and measured transcriptional 
changes of 14 antioxidative enzyme, immunity, and ageing-related 
(insulin/insulin-like growth factor signaling pathway) genes at two time points 
during hibernation. Additionally, worker bees were challenged with a bacterial 
infection to test ageing- and infection-associated immunity changes. Gene 
expression levels for each group of target genes revealed that ageing had a much 
higher impact than the bacterial challenge, notably for immunity-related genes. 
Antimicrobial peptide and antioxidative enzyme genes were significantly 
upregulated in aged worker honeybees independent of bacterial infections. The 
known ageing markers vitellogenin and IlP-1 were opposed regulated with 
decreasing vitellogenin levels during ageing. The increased antioxidative enzyme 
and antimicrobial peptide gene expression may contribute to a retardation of 
senescence in long-lived hibernating worker honeybees.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glt134
PMID: 24077437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. J Mol Evol. 2013 Sep;77(3):55-63. doi: 10.1007/s00239-013-9584-x.

The paradox of dual roles in the RNA world: resolving the conflict between 
stable folding and templating ability.

Ivica NA, Obermayer B, Campbell GW, Rajamani S, Gerland U, Chen IA.

The hypothesized dual roles of RNA as both information carrier and biocatalyst 
during the earliest stages of life require a combination of features: good 
templating ability (for replication) and stable folding (for ribozymes). 
However, this poses the following paradox: well-folded sequences are poor 
templates for copying, but poorly folded sequences are unlikely to be good 
ribozymes. Here, we describe a strategy to overcome this dilemma through G:U 
wobble pairing in RNA. Unlike Watson-Crick base pairs, wobble pairs contribute 
highly to the energetic stability of the folded structure of their sequence, but 
only slightly, if at all, to the stability of the folded reverse complement. 
Sequences in the RNA World might thereby combine stable folding of the ribozyme 
with an unstructured, reverse-complementary genome, resulting in a "division of 
labor" between the strands. We demonstrate this strategy using computational 
simulations of RNA folding and an experimental model of early replication, 
nonenzymatic template-directed RNA primer extension. Additional study is needed 
to solve other problems associated with a complete replication cycle, including 
separation of strands after copying. Interestingly, viroid RNA sequences, which 
have been suggested to be relics of an RNA World (Diener, Proc Natl Acad Sci USA 
86:9370-9374, 1989), also show significant asymmetry in folding energy between 
the infectious (+) and template (-) strands due to G:U pairing, suggesting that 
this strategy may even be used by replicators in the present day.

DOI: 10.1007/s00239-013-9584-x
PMID: 24078151 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2013 Oct;11(5):531-42. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-013-0053-x.

Economic evaluation of Cardio inCode®, a clinical-genetic function for coronary 
heart disease risk assessment.

Ramírez de Arellano A, Coca A, de la Figuera M, Rubio-Terrés C, Rubio-Rodríguez 
D, Gracia A, Boldeanu A, Puig-Gilberte J, Salas E.

BACKGROUND: A clinical–genetic function (Cardio inCode®) was generated using 
genetic variants associated with coronary heart disease (CHD), but not with 
classical CHD risk factors, to achieve a more precise estimation of the CHD risk 
of individuals by incorporating genetics into risk equations [Framingham and 
REGICOR (Registre Gironí del Cor)].
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to conduct an economic analysis of 
the CHD risk assessment with Cardio inCode®, which incorporates the patient’s 
genetic risk into the functions of REGICOR and Framingham, compared with the 
standard method (using only the functions).
METHODS: A Markov model was developed with seven states of health (low CHD risk, 
moderate CHD risk, high CHD risk, CHD event, recurrent CHD, chronic CHD, and 
death). The reclassification of CHD risk derived from genetic information and 
transition probabilities between states was obtained from a validation study 
conducted in cohorts of REGICOR (Spain) and Framingham (USA). It was assumed 
that patients classified as at moderate risk by the standard method were the 
best candidates to test the risk reclassification with Cardio inCode®. The 
utilities and costs (€; year 2011 values) of Markov states were obtained from 
the literature and Spanish sources. The analysis was performed from the 
perspective of the Spanish National Health System, for a life expectancy of 82 
years in Spain. An annual discount rate of 3.5 % for costs and benefits was 
applied.
RESULTS: For a Cardio inCode® price of €400, the cost per QALY gained compared 
with the standard method [incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER)] would be 
€12,969 and €21,385 in REGICOR and Framingham cohorts, respectively. The 
threshold price of Cardio inCode® to reach the ICER threshold generally accepted 
in Spain (€30,000/QALY) would range between €668 and €836. The greatest benefit 
occurred in the subgroup of patients with moderate–high risk, with a high-risk 
reclassification of 22.8 % and 12 % of patients and an ICER of €1,652/QALY and 
€5,884/QALY in the REGICOR and Framingham cohorts, respectively. Sensitivity 
analyses confirmed the stability of the study results.
CONCLUSIONS: Cardio inCode® is a cost-effective risk score option in CHD risk 
assessment compared with the standard method.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-013-0053-x
PMCID: PMC3825137
PMID: 24078223 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Curr Heart Fail Rep. 2013 Dec;10(4):401-10. doi: 10.1007/s11897-013-0155-7.

The emerging epidemic of heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.

Oktay AA, Rich JD, Shah SJ.

Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction (HFpEF), which currently 
represents approximately 50 % of heart failure (HF) cases, is common and 
associated with high morbidity and mortality. Understanding the epidemiology of 
HFpEF has been difficult due to the challenges in HFpEF diagnosis and the 
heterogeneous etiologies and pathophysiologies that underlie HFpEF. 
Nevertheless, several high-quality epidemiology and observational registry 
studies of HFpEF demonstrate that an increasing prevalence of HFpEF in both the 
outpatient and inpatient settings, coupled with a lack of evidence-based 
effective treatments for HFpEF, is resulting in an emerging epidemic of HFpEF. 
In this review, we discuss the emerging HFpEF epidemic, focusing on: (1) reasons 
for the rising prevalence of HFpEF; (2) the abnormalities in cardiac structure 
and function that dictate the transition from risk factors to HFpEF; (3) novel 
HFpEF mechanisms that may underlie the increase in HFpEF prevalence; (4) 
prognosis of HFpEF; and (5) risk prediction in HFpEF. We conclude with 10 
unanswered questions onHFpEF epidemiology thatwill be important areas for future 
investigation.

DOI: 10.1007/s11897-013-0155-7
PMCID: PMC3870014
PMID: 24078336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Compliance with Ethics Guidelines Conflict of 
Interest A. Afşin Oktay declares that he has no conflict of interest. Jonathan 
D. Rich has received honoraria from Thoratec for consulting services. Sanjiv J. 
Shah is supported by grants from the American Heart Association (#0835488 N) and 
National Institutes of Health (R01 HL107557); has received a research grant from 
Gilead Sciences; has received compensation for serving as a consultant for 
Novartis, Bayer-Schering Pharma, and has received honoraria from the Pulmonary 
Hypertension Association.


148. BMC Cancer. 2013 Oct 1;13:443. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-443.

Cost-effectiveness of adjuvant chemotherapy for curatively resected gastric 
cancer with S-1.

Hisashige A(1), Sasako M, Nakajima T.

Author information:
(1)The Institute of Healthcare Technology Assessment, 2-24-10, Shomachi, 
770-0044, Tokushima, Japan. akih@k3.dion.ne.jp.

BACKGROUND: The effectiveness of specific regimens of adjuvant therapy for 
gastric cancer has not been verified by large clinical trials. Recently, several 
large trials attempted to verify the effectiveness of adjuvant therapy. The 
Adjuvant Chemotherapy Trial of TS-1 for Gastric Cancer in Japan, a randomized 
controlled trial of adjuvant S-1 therapy for resected gastric cancer, 
demonstrated significant improvement in overall and relapse-free survival, 
compared to surgery alone. To evaluate value for money of S-1 therapy, 
cost-effective analysis was carried out.
METHODS: The analysis was carried out from a payer's perspective. As an economic 
measure, cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained was estimated. 
Overall survival was estimated by the Kaplan-Meier method, up to 5-year 
observation. Beyond this period, it was simulated by the modified Boag model. 
Utility score is derived from interviews with sampled patients using a time 
trade-off method. Costs were estimated from trial data during observation, while 
in the period beyond observation they were estimated using simulation results. 
To explore uncertainty of the results, qualitative and stochastic sensitivity 
analyses were done.
RESULTS: Adjuvant S-1 therapy gained 1.24 QALYs per patient and increased costs 
by $3,722 per patient for over lifetime (3% discount rate for both effect and 
costs). The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (95% confidence intervals) for 
over lifetime was estimated to be $3,016 ($1,441, $8,840) per QALY. The 
sensitivity analyses showed the robustness of these results.
CONCLUSION: Adjuvant S-1 therapy for curatively resected gastric cancer is 
likely cost-effective. This therapy can be accepted for wide use in Japan.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-443
PMCID: PMC3816158
PMID: 24079752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(18):2950-77. doi: 10.2174/13816128113196660699.

Calorie restriction and dietary restriction mimetics: a strategy for improving 
healthy aging and longevity.

Testa G, Biasi F, Poli G, Chiarpotto E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Biological Sciences, University of Torino, Regione 
Gonzole 10, 10043 Orbassano, (TO), Italy. elena.chiarpotto@unito.it.

Improvements in health care have increased human life expectancy in recent 
decades, and the elderly population is thus increasing in most developed 
countries. Unfortunately this still means increased years of poor health or 
disability. Since it is not yet possible to modify our genetic background, the 
best anti-aging strategy is currently to intervene on environmental factors, 
aiming to reduce the incidence of risk factors of poor health. Calorie 
restriction (CR) with adequate nutrition is the only non-genetic, and the most 
consistent non-pharmacological intervention that extends lifespan in model 
organisms from yeast to mammals, and protects against the deterioration of 
biological functions, delaying or reducing the risk of many age-related 
diseases. The biological mechanisms of CR's beneficial effects include 
modifications in energy metabolism, oxidative stress, insulin sensitivity, 
inflammation, autophagy, neuroendocrine function and induction of 
hormesis/xenohormesis response. The molecular signalling pathways mediating the 
anti-aging effect of CR include sirtuins, peroxisome proliferator activated 
receptor G coactivator-1α, AMP-activated protein kinase, insulin/insulin growth 
factor-1, and target of rapamycin, which form a pretty interacting network. 
However, most people would not comply with such a rigorous dietary program; 
research is thus increasingly aimed at determining the feasibility and efficacy 
of natural and/or pharmacological CR mimetic molecules/ treatments without 
lowering food intake, particularly in mid- to late-life periods. Likely 
candidates act on the same signalling pathways as CR, and include resveratrol 
and other polyphenols, rapamycin, 2-deoxy-D-glucose and other glycolytic 
inhibitors, insulin pathway and AMP-activated protein kinase activators, 
autophagy stimulators, alpha-lipoic acid, and other antioxidants.

DOI: 10.2174/13816128113196660699
PMID: 24079773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. BMC Health Serv Res. 2013 Sep 30;13:370. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-370.

Economic evaluation alongside a single RCT of an integrative psychotherapeutic 
nursing home programme.

Hakkaart-van Roijen L(1), Bakker TJ, Al M, van der Lee J, Duivenvoorden HJ, 
Ribbe MW, Huijsman R.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric-skilled nursing home 'DrieMaasStede', Argos Zorggroep, 
Voorberghlaan 35, P,O, Box 4023 3102, GA Schiedam, The Netherlands. 
t.bakker@argoszorggroep.nl.

BACKGROUND: There is an 80% prevalence of two or more psychiatric symptoms in 
psychogeriatric patients. Multiple psychiatric symptoms (MPS) have many negative 
effects on quality of life of the patient as well as on caregiver burden and 
competence. Irrespective of the effectiveness of an intervention programme, it 
is important to take into account its economic aspects.
METHODS: The economic evaluation was performed alongside a single open RCT and 
conducted between 2001 and 2006. The patients who met the selection criteria 
were asked to participate in the RCT. After the patient or his caregiver signed 
a written informed consent form, he was then randomly assigned to either IRR or 
UC.The costs and effects of IRR were compared to those of UC. We assessed the 
cost-utility of IRR as well as the cost-effectiveness of both conditions. 
Primary outcome variable: severity of MPS (NPI) of patients; secondary outcome 
variables: general caregiver burden (CB) and caregiver competence (CCL), quality 
of life (EQ5D) of the patient, and total medical costs per patient (TiC-P). 
Cost-utility was evaluated on the basis of differences in total medical costs). 
Cost-effectiveness was evaluated by comparing differences of total medical costs 
and effects on NPI, CB and CCL (Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio: ICER). 
CEAC-analyses were performed for QALY and NPI-severity. All significant testing 
was fixed at p<0.05 (two-tailed). The data were analyzed according to the 
intention-to-treat (ITT)-principle. A complete cases approach (CC) was used.
RESULTS: IRR turned out to be non-significantly, 10.5% more expensive than UC (€ 
36 per day). The number of QALYs was 0.01 higher (non-significant) in IRR, 
resulting in € 276,290 per QALY. According to the ICER-method, IRR was 
significantly more cost-effective on NPI-sum-severity of the patient (up to 
34%), CB and CCL (up to 50%), with ICERs varying from € 130 to € 540 per 
additional point of improvement.
CONCLUSIONS: No significant differences were found on QALYs. In IRR patients 
improved significantly more on severity of MPS, and caregivers on general burden 
and competence, with incremental costs varying from € 130 to € 540 per 
additional point of improvement. The surplus costs of IRR are considered 
acceptable, taking into account the high societal costs of suffering from MPS of 
psychogeriatric patients and the high burden of caregivers. The large 
discrepancy in economic evaluation between QALYs (based on EQ5D) and ICERs 
(based on clinically relevant outcomes) demands further research on the validity 
of EQ5D in psychogeriatric cost-utility studies. (Trial registration nr.: ISRCTN 
38916563; December 2004).

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-370
PMCID: PMC3851934
PMID: 24079838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


151. Gene. 2014 Jan 1;533(1):199-207. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.09.086. Epub 2013
Sep  29.

Telomere lengths at birth in trisomies 18 and 21 measured by Q-FISH.

Nakamura K(1), Ishikawa N, Izumiyama N, Aida J, Kuroiwa M, Hiraishi N, Fujiwara 
M, Nakao A, Kawakami T, Poon SS, Matsuura M, Sawabe M, Arai T, Takubo K.

Author information:
(1)Research Team for Geriatric Pathology, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of 
Gerontology, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: cpn@tmig.or.jp.

Trisomies 18 and 21 are genetic disorders in which cells possess an extra copy 
of each of the relevant chromosomes. Individuals with these disorders who 
survive birth generally have a shortened life expectancy. As telomeres are known 
to play an important role in the maintenance of genomic integrity by protecting 
the chromosomal ends, we conducted a study to determine whether there are 
differences in telomere length at birth between individuals with trisomy and 
diploidy, and between trisomic chromosomes and normal chromosomes. We examined 
samples of peripheral blood lymphocytes (PBLs) from 31 live neonates (diploidy: 
10, trisomy 18: 10, trisomy 21: 11) and estimated the telomere length of each 
chromosome arm using Q-FISH. We observed that the telomeres of trisomic 
chromosomes were neither shorter nor longer than the mean telomere length of 
chromosomes as a whole among subjects with trisomies 18 and 21 (intra-cell 
comparison), and we were unable to conclude that there were differences in 
telomere length between 18 trisomy and diploid subjects, or between 21 trisomy 
and diploid subjects (inter-individual comparison). Although it has been 
reported that telomeres are shorter in older individuals with trisomy 21 and 
show accelerated telomere shortening with age, our data suggest that patients 
with trisomies 18 and 21 may have comparably sized telomeres. Therefore, it 
would be advisable for them to avoid lifestyle habits and characteristics such 
as obesity, cigarette smoking, chronic stress, and alcohol intake, which lead to 
marked telomere shortening.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.09.086
PMID: 24080483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


152. J Antimicrob Chemother. 2014 Feb;69(2):535-47. doi: 10.1093/jac/dkt377. Epub
 2013 Sep 29.

Determinants of between-country differences in ambulatory antibiotic use and 
antibiotic resistance in Europe: a longitudinal observational study.

Blommaert A(1), Marais C, Hens N, Coenen S, Muller A, Goossens H, Beutels P.

Author information:
