treatment of depression. Little is known about the cost-effectiveness of 
pharmacist's interventions aimed at improving adherence to antidepressants. The 
study aimed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a community pharmacist 
intervention in comparison with usual care in depressed patients initiating 
treatment with antidepressants in primary care.
METHODS: Patients were recruited by general practitioners and randomized to 
community pharmacist intervention (87) that received an educational intervention 
and usual care (92). Adherence to antidepressants, clinical symptoms, 
Quality-Adjusted Life-Years (QALYs), use of healthcare services and productivity 
losses were measured at baseline, 3 and 6 months.
RESULTS: There were no significant differences between groups in costs or 
effects. From a societal perspective, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) for the community pharmacist intervention compared with usual care was 
€1,866 for extra adherent patient and €9,872 per extra QALY. In terms of 
remission of depressive symptoms, the usual care dominated the community 
pharmacist intervention. If willingness to pay (WTP) is €30,000 per extra 
adherent patient, remission of symptoms or QALYs, the probability of the 
community pharmacist intervention being cost-effective was 0.71, 0.46 and 0.75, 
respectively (societal perspective). From a healthcare perspective, the 
probability of the community pharmacist intervention being cost-effective in 
terms of adherence, QALYs and remission was of 0.71, 0.76 and 0.46, 
respectively, if WTP is €30,000.
CONCLUSION: A brief community pharmacist intervention addressed to depressed 
patients initiating antidepressant treatment showed a probability of being 
cost-effective of 0.71 and 0.75 in terms of improvement of adherence and QALYs, 
respectively, when compared to usual care. Regular implementation of the 
community pharmacist intervention is not recommended.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00794196.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0070588
PMCID: PMC3741197
PMID: 23950967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


830. Analyst. 2013 Oct 21;138(20):5995-6000. doi: 10.1039/c3an01212c. Epub 2013
Aug  15.

Label-free electrochemical DNA sensing with a one-target-multitriggered 
hybridization chain reaction strategy.

Zhu Z(1), Lei J, Liu L, Ju H.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Analytical Chemistry for Life Science, Department of 
Chemistry, Nanjing University, Nanjing 210093, P.R. China. hxju@nju.edu.cn.

A one-target-multitriggered hybridization chain reaction (MHCR) strategy was 
designed for ultrasensitive electrochemical detection of DNA by combining the 
isothermal strand-displacement polymerase reaction (ISDPR) with the DNA 
self-assembly on a DNA sensor surface. The sensor was constructed by 
immobilizing a hairpin-like capture probe (CP) on a gold electrode via an Au-S 
bond. The ISDPR was triggered by the hybridization of the target DNA to open the 
CP and primer to anneal the complementary part in the bottom of the exposed stem 
and the extension of the primer in the presence of dNTPs and polymerase. Each 
target copy could produce a few opened CPs. Afterwards, the other part of the 
exposed stem acted as an initiator to trigger the hybridization chain reaction 
(HCR) when incubated with two hairpin monomers. Using [Ru(NH3)6](3+) as an 
electrochemically active indicator to interact with the MHCR product, the 
amperometric response demonstrated a perfect multiple amplification effect. The 
constructed sensor showed a high sensitivity for detection of the target DNA in 
a linear range from 0.1 fM to 10 pM, a detection limit down to 0.02 fM (3σ) and 
good selectivity for base discrimination. This method did not need any 
modification or labelling process. The proposed strategy provides a powerful 
tool for cascade signal amplification and has a wide potential application in 
bioanalysis.

DOI: 10.1039/c3an01212c
PMID: 23951569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


831. Curr Cancer Drug Targets. 2013 Sep;13(7):749-54. doi: 
10.2174/15680096113139990087.

Management of early stage chronic myeloid leukemia: state-of-the-art approach 
and future perspectives.

Galaverna F(1), Ghiggi C, Guolo F, Beltrami G, Dellepiane C, Giannoni L, Carella 
A, Carella AM.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Ematologia 1, IRCCS Azienda Ospedaliera Universitaria San 
Martino - IST, Largo Rosanna Benzi, 10 -16132 Genova, Italy. 
angelomichele.carella@hsanmartino.it.

Tyrosin kinase inhibitors (TKI), have dramatically changed the natural history 
of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML) leading to an impressive increase in overall 
survival rates and allowing many CML patients to achieve a close-to-normal life 
expectancy. Unfortunately, there is growing evidence that these drugs are not 
curative, about 30-35% of the patients who receive imatinib become resistant or 
discontinue the drug because of side effects; moreover, 15% of all patients 
become resistant to all TKIs, a condition which represents the biggest challenge 
in CML treatment. Recent progresses in CML stem cell biology have identified new 
agents and therapeutic strategies that can be used to target the CML stem cell 
compartment. These studies have opened new perspectives and have highlighted key 
strategies for treating, and possibly curing, CML in the upcoming years.

DOI: 10.2174/15680096113139990087
PMID: 23952099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Crit Rev Oncol Hematol. 2014 Feb;89(2):197-206. doi: 
10.1016/j.critrevonc.2013.07.005. Epub 2013 Aug 13.

Clinical management of older persons with haemophilia.

Hermans C(1), de Moerloose P(2), Dolan G(3).

Author information:
(1)Haemostasis-Thrombosis Unit, Division of Haematology, Cliniques 
Universitaires Saint-Luc, Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address: 
cedric.hermans@uclouvain.be.
(2)Hemostasis Unit, University Hospital and Faculty of Medicine, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(3)Nottingham Haemophilia Comprehensive Care Centre, Nottingham University 
Hospitals, Queens Medical Center, Nottingham, UK.

Life expectancy for people with haemophilia (PWH) has improved and is now 
approaching that of the general population. The growing population of elderly 
PWH will therefore increasingly face the age-related morbidities such as 
cardiovascular diseases, malignant disease, liver disease, and bone and joint 
related diseases, as well as the lifestyle and psychosocial factors that 
accompany many of these conditions. For many PWH, frequent contact with 
haemophilia specialists within the comprehensive care centres supplants the 
relationship that individuals in the general population have with their general 
practitioners. As a result, there is a risk that elderly PWH may miss the 
chronic disease screening opportunities offered to the general population. This 
review focuses on the screening tests and examinations recommended for 
age-related comorbidities in the general population that may be applicable to 
the growing population of older people with haemophilia.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.critrevonc.2013.07.005
PMID: 23953685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. J Nutr Biochem. 2013 Nov;24(11):1840-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2013.04.005.
Epub  2013 Aug 15.

Pomegranate seed oil prevents bone loss in a mice model of osteoporosis, through 
osteoblastic stimulation, osteoclastic inhibition and decreased inflammatory 
status.

Spilmont M(1), Léotoing L, Davicco MJ, Lebecque P, Mercier S, Miot-Noirault E, 
Pilet P, Rios L, Wittrant Y, Coxam V.

Author information:
(1)INRA, UMR 1019, UNH, CRNH Auvergne, F-63009 Clermont-Ferrand, France; Equipe 
Alimentation, Squelette et Métabolismes, France; Clermont Université, Université 
d'Auvergne, Unité de Nutrition Humaine, BP 10448, F-63000 Clermont-Ferrand, 
France; Greentech SA, Biopôle, Clermont-Limagne, 63360 Saint Beauzire, France.

In the current context of longer life expectancy, the prevalence of osteoporosis 
is increasingly important. This is why development of new strategies of 
prevention is highly suitable. Pomegranate seed oil (PSO) and its major 
component, punicic acid (a conjugated linolenic acid), have potent 
anti-inflammatory and anti-oxidative properties both in vitro and in vivo, two 
processes strongly involved in osteoporosis establishment. In this study, we 
demonstrated that PSO consumption (5% of the diet) improved significantly bone 
mineral density (240.24±11.85 vs. 203.04±34.19 mg/cm(3)) and prevented 
trabecular microarchitecture impairment in ovariectomized (OVX) mice C57BL/6J, 
compared to OVX control animals. Those findings are associated with 
transcriptional changes in bone tissue, suggesting involvement of both 
osteoclastogenesis inhibition and osteoblastogenesis improvement. In addition, 
thanks to an ex vivo experiment, we provided evidence that serum from mice fed 
PSO (5% by gavage) had the ability to significantly down-regulate the expression 
of specific osteoclast differentiation markers and RANK-RANKL downstream 
signaling targets in osteoclast-like cells (RAW264.7) (RANK: negative 0.49-fold 
vs. control conditions). Moreover, in osteoblast-like cells (MC3T3-E1), it 
elicited significant increase in alkaline phosphatase activity (+159% at day 7), 
matrix mineralization (+271% on day 21) and transcriptional levels of major 
osteoblast lineage markers involving the Wnt/β-catenin signaling pathways. Our 
data also reveal that PSO inhibited pro-inflammatory factors expression while 
stimulating anti-inflammatory ones. These results demonstrate that PSO is highly 
relevant regarding osteoporosis. Indeed, it offers promising alternatives in the 
design of new strategies in nutritional management of age-related bone 
complications.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jnutbio.2013.04.005
PMID: 23953990 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. Am J Obstet Gynecol. 2013 Dec;209(6):546.e1-6. doi:
10.1016/j.ajog.2013.08.013.  Epub 2013 Aug 14.

Cost-effectiveness of transabdominal ultrasound for cervical length screening 
for preterm birth prevention.

Miller ES(1), Grobman WA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.

OBJECTIVE: Transabdominal ultrasound (TAUS) cervical length (CL) screening has 
been proposed as an alternative to universal transvaginal screening to identify 
women at an increased risk of preterm birth. We sought to identify whether and 
under what circumstances TAUS would be cost-effective.
STUDY DESIGN: This is a decision analytic model designed to compare an initial 
TAUS CL screening approach with universal transvaginal screening in a 
hypothetical cohort of women with a singleton pregnancy. Cost, probability, and 
utility estimates were derived from the existing literature.
RESULTS: Under baseline assumptions, universal transvaginal was the dominant 
strategy. In comparison to TAUS, universal transvaginal CL screening reduced 
preterm birth by 0.03%, reduced costs by $1.2 million and increased 
quality-adjusted life years by 70 per 100,000 women. Although robust to many 
changes in many estimates, the model was sensitive to the cost of a transvaginal 
ultrasound, the prevalence of a short cervix and the test characteristics (ie, 
sensitivity and specificity) of a TAUS screening examination for short CL.
CONCLUSION: Compared with an initial TAUS screen, universal transvaginal 
ultrasound was a more cost-effective strategy under most assumptions. Optimizing 
TAUS testing characteristics or applying a transabdominal screening strategy in 
lower risk populations may yield an initial TAUS to be cost-effective.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajog.2013.08.013
PMID: 23954533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Neth J Med. 2013 Jul-Aug;71(6):281-9.

Immunosuppressive drugs after solid organ transplantation.

van Sandwijk MS(1), Bemelman FJ, Ten Berge IJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands. m.s.vansandwijk@amc.uva.nl

In recent years solid organ transplantation has been rapidly developed as a 
therapeutic intervention that is life-saving and greatly contributes to a better 
quality of life in organ recipients. The rapid development has been made 
possible because of a drastic expansion in the immunosuppressive repertoire. 
Unfortunately, the side effects of these drugs can be severe, which is one of 
the reasons that life expectancy of transplant patients still significantly 
falls short of that of the general population. In this review manuscript we will 
discuss current and future immunosuppressive strategies that are employed in 
solid organ transplantation. Expanding our understanding of the human immune 
system will hopefully provide us with newer, smarter drugs that promote 
immunotolerance without the side effects observed today.

PMID: 23956308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Rev Philos Psychol. 2013;4(3):419-447. doi: 10.1007/s13164-013-0145-4. Epub
2013  Jun 30.

Artefacts and Family Resemblance.

Garbacz P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Philosophy, John Paul II Catholic University of Lublin, Lublin, 
Poland.

I develop in this paper a conception of artefacts based on L. Wittgenstein's 
idea of family resemblance. My approach peruses the notion of frame, which was 
invented in cognitive psychology as an operationisable extension of this 
philosophical idea. Following the metaphor of life-cycle I show how this 
schematic notion of frame may be filled with the content relevant for artefacts 
if we consider them from the point of view of their histories. The resulting 
conception of artefacts provides a new insight into the current debate on 
artefact categorisation.

DOI: 10.1007/s13164-013-0145-4
PMCID: PMC3735962
PMID: 23956810


837. Environ Sci Technol. 2013 Oct 1;47(19):11189-98. doi: 10.1021/es4026547.
Epub  2013 Sep 11.

Consequential environmental and economic life cycle assessment of green and gray 
stormwater infrastructures for combined sewer systems.

Wang R(1), Eckelman MJ, Zimmerman JB.

Author information:
(1)School of Forestry and Environmental Studies and §Department of Chemical and 
Environmental Engineering, Yale University , New Haven, Connecticut 06520, 
United States.

A consequential life cycle assessment (LCA) is conducted to evaluate the 
trade-offs between water quality improvements and the incremental climate, 
resource, and economic costs of implementing green (bioretention basin, green 
roof, and permeable pavement) versus gray (municipal separate stormwater sewer 
systems, MS4) alternatives of stormwater infrastructure expansions against a 
baseline combined sewer system with combined sewer overflows in a typical 
Northeast US watershed for typical, dry, and wet years. Results show that 
bioretention basins can achieve water quality improvement goals (e.g., 
mitigating freshwater eutrophication) for the least climate and economic costs 
of 61 kg CO2 eq. and $98 per kg P eq. reduction, respectively. MS4 demonstrates 
the minimum life cycle fossil energy use of 42 kg oil eq. per kg P eq. 
reduction. When integrated with the expansion in stormwater infrastructure, 
implementation of advanced wastewater treatment processes can further reduce the 
impact of stormwater runoff on aquatic environment at a minimal environmental 
cost (77 kg CO2 eq. per kg P eq. reduction), which provides support and valuable 
insights for the further development of integrated management of stormwater and 
wastewater. The consideration of critical model parameters (i.e., precipitation 
intensity, land imperviousness, and infrastructure life expectancy) highlighted 
the importance and implications of varying local conditions and infrastructure 
characteristics on the costs and benefits of stormwater management. Of 
particular note is that the impact of MS4 on the local aquatic environment is 
highly dependent on local runoff quality indicating that a combined system of 
green infrastructure prior to MS4 potentially provides a more cost-effective 
improvement to local water quality.

DOI: 10.1021/es4026547
PMID: 23957532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Rejuvenation Res. 2014 Apr;17(2):239-42. doi: 10.1089/rej.2013.1482. Epub
2014  Apr 8.

Closing the East-West life expectancy gap in the European union: a new strategy.

Lens-Pechakova LS(1).

Author information:
(1)LILE Editions, Brussels, Belgium; HLEB-Healthy Life Expectancy Bulgaria .

According to recent studies, the difference in life expectancy -the gap-between 
eastern and western countries of the European Union (EU) grows continuously. We 
have analyzed data on life expectancy and household expenditure, corrected by 
price level indices, in the countries of the EU. We have found that eastern 
European countries have less total health expenditure, but expenditures on 
tobacco and alcohol dominate. We propose a new strategy for closing the gap, by 
promoting health care spending, public and private investments in life 
extension, and radical life extension research in the eastern countries of the 
EU.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2013.1482
PMID: 23957632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Acta Oncol. 2014 Mar;53(3):368-77. doi: 10.3109/0284186X.2013.819994. Epub
2013  Aug 19.

Assessing patients' perceived bother from the gastrointestinal side effects of 
radiotherapy for localized prostate cancer: initial questionnaire development 
and validation.

Pettersson A(1), Turesson I, Persson C, Johansson B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Oncology and Radiation Science, Uppsala University , 
Uppsala , Sweden.

BACKGROUND: The present study reports on the development and first steps of 
validation of the Gastrointestinal Side Effects Questionnaire (GISEQ), a measure 
of patient-reported gastrointestinal symptoms following local radiotherapy to 
the prostate. The questionnaire design provides a novel approach of assessment 
of side effects of prostate radiotherapy, by enabling measurement of 
patient-perceived change in symptoms.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The eight-item GISEQ was administered to 130 prostate 
cancer patients referred to radiotherapy. Patients completed the GISEQ at four, 
eight and 15 weeks after start of radiotherapy. The psychometric properties 
including validity, reliability, responsiveness and feasibility were evaluated. 
The EORTC QLQ-C30 and QLQ-PR25 were chosen as comparative measures.
RESULTS: Expert opinion supported content validity. For concurrent validity, 
correlation between the GISEQ and matching items in the EORTC questionnaires was 
moderate but significant (r > 0.41, p < 0.001). The responsiveness was adequate, 
indicated by changes in GISEQ scores over time corresponding to the effects of 
radiation. Internal consistency was satisfactory (overall Cronbach's α> 0.70). 
Sensitivity and specificity for items diarrhea, constipation and blood in stools 
ranged from 50% to 100% and from 68% to 100%, respectively. All items had a 
floor effect above 15%. The response rates ranged from 85% to 92% and missing 
items was < 0.8%, indicating good feasibility.
CONCLUSIONS: The GISEQ showed satisfactory internal consistency and adequate 
content validity, concurrent validity and responsiveness. It is brief, easy to 
use and can be quickly evaluated, making it useful not only for research but 
possibly also for clinical settings. Modification of response scale and 
extension of items are potential improvements. Further work is needed to 
strengthen the psychometric qualities of the GISEQ and to evaluate its clinical 
use and potential effects of response shift and recall bias.

DOI: 10.3109/0284186X.2013.819994
PMID: 23957649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Prim Care. 2013 Sep;40(3):589-617. doi: 10.1016/j.pop.2013.05.002. Epub 2013
Jul  24.

Management of human immunodeficiency virus in primary care.

Sell JK(1).

Author information:
(1)Penn State Hershey Department of Family and Community Medicine, Penn State 
Milton S. Hershey Medical Center, 500 University Drive, Hershey, PA 17033, USA. 
jsell@hmc.psu.edu

This article presents an overview of current human immunodeficiency (HIV) 
management for primary care practitioners. Discussion is focused on appropriate 
screening, antiretroviral treatment, opportunistic infection prophylaxis, 
laboratory testing and prevention. Improved screening can identify the 20-25% of 
persons living with HIV in the United States who remain undiagnosed. Expansion 
of treatment recommendations to include all HIV-infected persons and expanded 
opportunities for prophylaxis will likely significantly increase the number of 
persons who receive antiretroviral treatment. Understanding of opportunistic 
infection prophylaxis, proper vaccination, and comorbid risk factor modification 
can improve life expectancy for many patients living with chronic stable HIV 
infection.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pop.2013.05.002
PMID: 23958359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]841. World J Surg. 2013 Dec;37(12):2899-910. doi: 10.1007/s00268-013-2184-5.

Hepatectomy in elderly patients: does age matter?

Zhou Y, Zhang X, Zhang Z, Liu X, Wu L, Li Y, Li B.

BACKGROUND: With the increase in average life expectancy in recent decades, the 
proportion of elderly patients requiring liver surgery is rising. The aim of the 
meta-analysis reported here was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
hepatectomy in elderly patients.
METHODS: An extensive electronic search was performed for relevant articles that 
compare the outcomes of hepatectomy in patients ≥70 years of age with those in 
younger patients prior to October 2012. Analysis of pooled data was performed 
with RevMan 5.0.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight observational studies involving 15,480 patients were 
included in the analysis. Compared with the younger patients, elderly patients 
experienced more complications (31.8 vs 28.7 %; P = 0.002), mainly as a result 
of increased cardiac complications (7.5 vs 1.9 %; P < 0.001) and delirium (11.7 
vs 4.5 %; P < 0.001). Postoperative major surgical complications (12.6 vs 11.3 
%; P = 0.55) and mortality (3.6 vs 3.3 %; P = 0.68) were comparable between 
elderly and younger patients. For patients with malignancies, both the 5-year 
disease-free survival (26.5 vs 26.3 %; P = 0.60) and overall survival (39.5 vs 
40.7 %; P = 0.29) did not differ significantly between the two groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Postoperative major surgical complications, mortality, and 
long-term results in elderly patients seem to be comparable with those in 
younger patients, suggesting that age alone should not be considered a 
contraindication for hepatectomy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-013-2184-5
PMID: 23959339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Trop Biomed. 2013 Jun;30(2):301-14.

Life table characteristics of Aedes aegypti (Diptera:Culicidae) from Saudi 
Arabia.

Sowilem MM(1), Kamal HA, Khater EI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, College of Food and Agricultural Sciences, 
King Saud University, Riyadh 11451, P.O. 2460, Saudi Arabia.

Aedes aegypti (= Stegomyia aegypti) mosquito is a world vector of important 
arboviral diseases like dengue and Rift Valley fever. Despite its wide 
distribution in the western and southern regions of Saudi Arabia, where dengue 
outbreaks have occurred, its ecology is largely unknown. In this study we report 
on the main life table developmental attributes of a laboratory colony of Ae. 
aegypti reared from field-collected larvae from Madinah Province, west of Saudi 
Arabia. Females were maintained on daily blood meal and sugar. The female 
fecundity was ~62 eggs/female at an overall rate of 72% hatchability. The mean 
time needed for eggs to hatch into larvae was 4.5 d. The mean pupation time 
(P50) was 11.53 days (d). The proportion of immature survivorships were 0.69 for 
1(st) larva to pupa (P/I), 0.98 for pupa to adult (A/P) and an overall 0.67 for 
1(st) larva to adult (A/I). Males emerged faster than females with mean 
emergence time (E50) of 12.83 and 15.31 d, respectively. The average 
developmental velocity (V) showed that males (V= 0.081) developed faster than 
females (V= 0.068). The male/female sex ratio at adult emergence was 0.48, and 
insignificantly different from the 1:1 ratio. The adult mean life expectancy at 
emergence (eo) was 17.14 d for females compared to 9.59 d for males. The net 
reproductive rate (Ro) was 101.04 and the intrinsic rate of increase (rm) was 
0.15 with a mean generation time (G) of 30.7 d. The instantaneous mean of birth 
(B) and death rate (D) were 0.30 and 0.15, respectively, with rm/B of 0.529 and 
B/D of 2.281. Compared to other Ae. aegypti strains from different geographic 
and ecological settings, the Saudi strain had a relatively low colonization 
potential. This is the first report on life table characteristics for Ae. 
aegypti from the Arabian Peninsula, and provides base-line information for wider 
studies on its natural populations. This is particularly important for 
understanding its population dynamics in relation to dengue transmission and 
control under regional conditions.

PMID: 23959496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Diabetologia. 2013 Aug 20;56(11):2367-77. doi: 10.1007/s00125-013-3011-0.
Online  ahead of print.

Effect of early intensive multifactorial therapy compared with routine care on 
self-reported health status, general well-being, diabetes-specific quality of 
life and treatment satisfaction in screen-detected type 2 diabetes mellitus 
patients (ADDITION-Europe): a cluster-randomised trial.

Van den Donk M(1), Griffin SJ, Stellato RK, Simmons RK, Sandbæk A, Lauritzen T, 
Khunti K, Davies MJ, Borch-Johnsen K, Wareham NJ, Rutten GE.

Author information:
(1)Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 3508 GA, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: The study aimed to examine the effects of intensive treatment 
(IT) vs routine care (RC) on patient-reported outcomes after 5 years in 
screen-detected diabetic patients.
METHODS: In a pragmatic, cluster-randomised, parallel-group trial, 343 general 
practices in Denmark, Cambridge and Leicester (UK) and the Netherlands were 
randomised to screening for type 2 diabetes mellitus plus IT of multiple risk 
factors in people 40-69 years without known diabetes (n = 1,678 patients) or 
screening plus RC (n = 1,379 patients). Practices were randomised in a 1:1 ratio 
according to a computer-generated list. Diabetes mellitus was diagnosed 
according to WHO criteria. Exclusions were: life expectancy <1 year, housebound, 
pregnant or lactating, or psychological or psychiatric problems. Treatment 
targets for IT were: HbA1c <7.0% (53 mmol/mol), BP ≤135/85 mmHg, cholesterol 
<5 mmol/l in the absence of a history of coronary heart disease and <4.5 mmol/l 
in patients with cardiovascular (CV) disease; prescription of aspirin to people 
taking antihypertensive medication and, in cases of CV disease or BP 
>120/80 mmHg, ACE inhibitors were recommended. After 2003, the treatment 
algorithm recommended statins to all patients with cholesterol of ≥3.5 mmol/l. 
Outcome measures were: health status (Euroqol 5 Dimensions [EQ-5D]) at baseline 
and at follow-up; and health status (36-item Short Form Health Survey [SF-36] 
and Euroquol Visual Analogue Scale [EQ-VAS]), well-being (12-item Short Form of 
the Well-Being Questionnaire), diabetes-specific quality of life (Audit of 
Diabetes-Dependent Quality of Life) and satisfaction with diabetes treatment 
(Diabetes Treatment Satisfaction Questionnaire) at follow-up. At baseline, 
standardised self-report questionnaires were used to collect information. 
Questionnaires were completed at the same health assessment visit as the 
anthropometric and biochemical measurements. The patients and the staff 
assessing the outcomes were unaware of the group assignments. Participants were 
followed for a mean of 5.7 years. Outcome data were available for 1,250 
participants in the intensive treatment group (74%) and 967 participants in the 
routine care group (70%). The estimated differences in means from the four 
centres were pooled using random effects meta-analysis. Baseline EQ-5D level was 
used as a covariate in all analyses.
RESULTS: EQ-5D values did not change between diagnosis and follow-up, with a 
median (interquartile range) of 0.85 (0.73-1.00) at baseline and 0.85 
(0.73-1.00) at 5 year follow-up. Health status, well-being, diabetes-specific 
quality of life and treatment satisfaction did not differ between the intensive 
treatment and routine care groups. There was some heterogeneity between centres 
(I 2 being between 13% [SF-36 physical functioning] and 73% [EQ-VAS]).
CONCLUSIONS/INTERPRETATION: There were no differences in health status, 
well-being, quality of life and treatment satisfaction between screen-detected 
type 2 diabetes mellitus patients receiving intensive treatment and those 
receiving routine care. These results suggest that intensive treatment does not 
adversely affect patient-reported outcomes.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00237549 FUNDING: 
ADDITION-Denmark was supported by the National Health Services, the Danish 
Council for Strategic Research, the Danish Research Foundation for General 
Practice, Novo Nordisk Foundation, the Danish Centre for Evaluation and Health 
Technology Assessment, the Diabetes Fund of the National Board of Health, the 
Danish Medical Research Council and the Aarhus University Research Foundation. 
In addition, unrestricted grants from pharmaceutical companies were received. 
ADDITION-Cambridge was supported by the Wellcome Trust, the Medical Research 
Council, the NIHR Health Technology Assessment Programme, National Health 
Service R&D support funding and the National Institute for Health Research. SJG 
received support from the Department of Health NIHR grant funding scheme. 
ADDITION-Leicester was supported by Department of Health, the NIHR Health 
Technology Assessment Programme, National Health Service R&D support funding and 
the National Institute for Health Research. ADDITION-Netherlands was supported 
by unrestricted grants from Novo Nordisk, Glaxo Smith Kline and Merck, and by 
the Julius Center for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical 
Center, Utrecht.

DOI: 10.1007/s00125-013-3011-0
PMCID: PMC3824356
PMID: 23959571


844. Hum Biol. 2012 Dec;84(6):725-33. doi: 10.3378/027.084.0606.

The Effect of ACP₁-ADA₁ Genetic Interaction on Human Life Span.

Lucarini N(1), Napolioni V, Magrini A, Gloria F.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Human Genetics, School of Biosciences and Biotechnology, Via 
Gentile III da Varano, University of Camerino, Italy. 
nazzareno.lucarini@unicam.it

Acid phosphatase (ACP₁) is a polymorphic enzyme that catalyzes the conversion of 
flavin-mononucleotide (FMN) to riboflavin and regulates the cellular 
concentration of flavin-adenine-dinucleotide (FAD) and, consequently, energy 
metabolism. Its activity is modulated by adenosine deaminase locus 1 (ADA₁) 
genotype. The aim of our work is to verify whether individuals with a high 
proportion of ACP₁ f-isozyme and carrying the ADA₁*2 allele, displaying the 
highest phosphatase activity, may have a higher life expectancy. Genomic DNA was 
extracted from the peripheral blood of 569 females and 509 males (18 to 106 
years of age) randomly recruited from Central Italy. These samples were 
subdivided into three sex-specific age groups (the ages of women are in square 
bracket): Class 1: age <66 [<73]; Class 2: ages 66 to 88 [73 to 91]; Class 3: 
age >88 [>91]. ACP₁and ADA₁ singlenucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) were genotyped 
by restriction fragment length polymorphism-polymerase chain reaction (RFLP-PCR) 
methods and statistical analyses were performed with SPSS 14.0. The results 
showed a larger proportion of Class 3 individuals displaying high ACP₁ f-isozyme 
concentration and carrying the ADA₁*2 allele than those individuals of Class 2 
and Class 2 plus Class 1. Thus, we postulate that in Class 3 individuals the 
high phosphatase activity, resulting from the combined presence of high ACP₁ 
f-isozyme concentration and the ADA₁*2 allele, lowers the rate of glycolysis 
that may reduce the amount of metabolic calories and, in turn, activate Sirtuin 
genes that protect cells against age-related diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Wayne State University Press, Detroit, Michigan 48201-1309.

DOI: 10.3378/027.084.0606
PMID: 23959645 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Med Res Rev. 2014 May;34(3):567-95. doi: 10.1002/med.21298. Epub 2013 Aug
19.

Human DNA ligases: a comprehensive new look for cancer therapy.

Singh DK(1), Krishna S, Chandra S, Shameem M, Deshmukh AL, Banerjee D.

Author information:
(1)CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, B.S. 10/1, Janakipuram Extension, 
Sitapur Road, Lucknow, 226021, Uttar Pradesh, India.

Living organisms belonging to all three domains of life, viz., eubacteria, 
archaeabacteria, and eukaryotes encode one or more DNA ligases. DNA ligases are 
indispensable in various DNA repair and replication processes and a deficiency 
or an inhibition of their activity can lead to accumulation of DNA damage and 
strand breaks. DNA damage, specially strand breaks at unsustainable levels can 
lead to replication block and/or cell death. DNA ligases as potential anticancer 
targets have been realized only recently. There is enough rationale to suggest 
that ligases have a tremendous potential for novel therapeutics including 
anticancer and antibacterial therapy, specially when the world is facing acute 
problems of drug resistance and chemotherapy failure, with an immediate need for 
new therapeutic targets. Here, we review the current state of the art in the 
development of human ligase inhibitors, their structures, molecular mechanisms, 
physiological effects, and their potential in future cancer therapy. Citing 
examples, we focus on strategies for improving the activity and specificity of 
existing and novel inhibitors by using structure-based rational approaches. In 
the end, we describe potential new sites on the ligase I protein that can be 
targeted for the development of novel inhibitors. This is the first 
comprehensive review to compile all known human ligase inhibitors and to provide 
a rationale for the further development of ligase inhibitors for cancer therapy.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/med.21298
PMID: 23959747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. Arch Insect Biochem Physiol. 2013 Oct;84(2):57-77. doi: 10.1002/arch.21114.
Epub  2013 Aug 19.

Characterization of Atg8 in lepidopteran insect cells.

Gai Z(1), Zhang X, Islam M, Wang X, Li A, Yang Y, Li Y, Peng J, Hong H, Liu K.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Central China Normal University, Wuhan City, P. R. 
China.

Yeast Atg8 and mammalian microtubule-associated protein light chain 3 (LC3) are 
landmark proteins essential for autophagy. Here the lepidopteran Atg8, a homolog 
of LC3, is characterized. Sequence analysis reveals that Atg8 proteins are 
highly conserved in lepidopteran species. The abundance of endogeous Atg8 and 
the ratios of Atg8 conjugation to phosphatidylethanolamine (Atg8-PE)/Atg8 are 
different among several lepidopteran cell lines and different tissues of 
Helicoverpa armigera larvae. Both the density of fluorescent pre-autophagosomal 
structures with GFP-Ha Atg8 and the abundance of Atg6 are positively correlated 
with levels of Atg8-PE in different cell lines. The mutant GFP-Atg8(G116A) has 
lost the function in punctual formation, suggesting that G116 is important for 
autophagy. Exogenous factors have significant influences on the conversion of 
Atg8 in lepidopteran cells. Bacillus thuringiensis enhances the degradation of 
Atg8 in Spodoptera litura Sl-HP cells. Atg8-PE degrades gradually with extension 
of amino acid starvation, and bafilomycin A1 can block the decrease through the 
inhibition of autophagosome fusion with lysosome. Interestingly, high pH is more 
effective than amino acid starvation in Bombyx mori Bme cells to induce the 
conversion of BmAtg8 to BmAgt8-PE. Change of the quality of fetal bovine serum 
in the culture medium results in alteration of the ratio of Atg8-PE/Atg8 in some 
lepidopteran cell lines.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/arch.21114
PMID: 23959953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


847. Methods Mol Biol. 2013;1035:141-52. doi: 10.1007/978-1-62703-508-8_12.

Unbiased stereological method to assess proliferation throughout the 
subependymal zone.

Falcão AM(1), Palha JA, Ferreira AC, Marques F, Sousa N, Sousa JC.

Author information:
(1)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Health 
Sciences, University of Minho, Braga, Portugal.

The subependymal zone (SEZ), frequently named as adult subventricular zone 
(SVZ), is a niche of adult neural stem and progenitor cells that lines a large 
extension of the lateral ventricles of the brain. The majority of the studies do 
not analyze the SEZ throughout its entire extension. Instead, studies of cell 
populations within the SEZ typically focus their analysis on a narrow space 
between specific bregma coordinates that provides a perspective of only a small 
portion of the SEZ. We have previously proposed a standard division for the SEZ 
at the anterior-posterior and dorsal-ventral axes based on external brain 
anatomical hallmarks (Falcao et al., PLoS One 7:e38647, 2012). Herein, we 
describe in detail the procedure and a stereological approach that can be used 
to obtain an unbiased estimation of the SEZ cell proliferation under 
physiological and pathological conditions. This approach takes into 
consideration clear SEZ anatomical divisions, both on the anterior-posterior and 
dorsal-ventral axes, which will standardize future studies on the SEZ.

DOI: 10.1007/978-1-62703-508-8_12
PMID: 23959988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


848. J Saudi Heart Assoc. 2011 Apr;23(2):67-73. doi: 10.1016/j.jsha.2010.12.001.
Epub  2011 Jan 1.

Evaluation of aggressive heart rate reduction in patients with stable angina.

Azeem HA(1), Khalek el SA, Akabawy HE.

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Faculty of Medicine, Al Azhar University, Egypt.

BACKGROUND: There is a strong correlation between heart rate and myocardial 
ischemia, cardiovascular diseases, and life expectancy in general; however, 
heart rate has been neglected as an important risk factor as well as a 
therapeutic opportunity.
PURPOSE: To investigate the effect of aggressive heart rate reduction 
(50 ⩽ HR ⩽ 60 bpm) on anti-ischemic and anti-anginal efficacy, left ventricular 
function, exercise tolerance and quality of life in patients with stable 
coronary artery disease with or without left ventricular dysfunction during 4 
months.
METHODS: A total of 159 patients presented with stable CAD without clinical 
heart failure symptoms were included in a open-label, non-comparative, 
prospective clinical study between June 2009 to February 2010 in King Abdul Aziz 
Specialist Hospital, Taif, KSA, Al Hayah National Hospital, Khamis Mushyt, KSA 
and Critical care department, Cairo University, Egypt. All included patients 
were, in addition to the ant ischemic treatment, subjected to aggressive heart 
rate control starting by beta blocker titrated to the maximum dose as tolerated, 
then Ivabradine added if the target heart rate is not achieved or rate control 
started by Ivabradine if beta blockers are contraindicated. Exercise treadmill 
test (ETT) to assess exercise capacity using time to 1 mm ST-segment depression 
in milliseconds, ejection fraction (EF) assessed by transthoracic 
echocardiography and frequency of angina attacks and the use of sublingual 
nitroglycerin per week during the last week were evaluated during a follow-up 
for 4 months. The patients were divided into two groups, group-I (patients 
achieved a resting heart rate between 50 and 60 bpm with heart rate reduction 
treatment) and group-II (patients with resting HR >60 bpm in spite of maximum 
treatment for heart rate reduction).
RESULTS: The resting heart rate was significantly reduced from 77.98 ± 8.7 at 
baseline to 60.68 ± 4.34 bpm after 4 months of treatment, P < 0.001. The 
frequency of angina pectoris attacks had been significantly reduced from 
2.14 ± 1.27 to 0.48 ± 0.58 attacks per week, P < 0.001 and the highest 
significant reduction was observed with group-I. Also, the frequency of use 
sublingual nitrate therapy was significantly reduced from 1.38 ± 1.1 tablet per 
week at the last week before the study to 0.12 ± 0.33 tablet per week during the 
last week after 4 months of treatment, P < 0.001 and the reduction was more 
significantly with group-I. Exercise treadmill test demonstrated statistically 
significant increase in the time to 1 mm ST-segment depression from 
357.36 ± 66.73 at baseline to 387.96 ± 65.19 ms. after 4 months with P < 0.001. 
The degree of improvement was significantly higher for group-I (from 
358.06 ± 68.81 at baseline to 391.71 ± 69.01 after 4 months with P < 0.001) than 
that of group-II (from 356.11 ± 64.8 at baseline to 381.27 ± 59.08 after 4 
months with P < 0.001). Ejection fraction showed a statistically significant 
increase from 59.76 ± 6.86 at baseline to 61.04 ± 5.35 after 4 months with 
P < 0.001.
CONCLUSION: This study indicates that heart rate reduction has been associated 
with an improvement in quality of life in patients with stable coronary artery 
disease, presenting new opportunities for treatment.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsha.2010.12.001
PMCID: PMC3727452
PMID: 23960640


849. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2010 Oct;17(4):341-5. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2010.05.004.
Epub  2010 May 24.

Cultivation of different strains of king oyster mushroom (Pleurotus eryngii) on 
saw dust and rice straw in Bangladesh.

Moonmoon M(1), Uddin MN, Ahmed S, Shelly NJ, Khan MA.

Author information:
(1)National Mushroom Development and Extension Centre, Savar, Dhaka 1340, 
Bangladesh.

Pleurotus eryngii is a popular mushroom due to its excellent consistency of cap 
and stem, culinary qualities and longer shelf life. In Bangladesh, where 
Pleurotus mushrooms are very popular, P. eryngii may take position among the 
consumers, but currently this mushroom is not cultivated in large scale there. 
In this study, 3 strains of P. eryngii such as Pe-1 (native to Bangladesh), Pe-2 
(germplasm collected from China) and Pe-3 (germplasm collected from Japan) were 
cultivated on saw dust and rice straw and their growth and yield parameters were 
investigated. Pe-1 on saw dust showed the highest biological yield and 
efficiency (73.5%) than other strains. Also, the mycelium run rate and number of 
fruiting bodies were higher in Pe-1 than other two strains. The quality of 
mushroom strains was near about similar. On saw dust, the yield and efficiency 
were better than those cultivated on rice straw, however, on straw; the mushroom 
fruiting bodies were larger in size. This study shows the prospects of P. 
eryngii cultivation in Bangladesh and suggests further study in controlled 
environment for higher yield and production.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2010.05.004
PMCID: PMC3730573
PMID: 23961095


850. Saudi J Biol Sci. 2011 Oct;18(4):323-8. doi: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2010.12.008.
Epub  2010 Dec 25.

Effects of different levels of wheat bran, rice bran and maize powder 
supplementation with saw dust on the production of shiitake mushroom (Lentinus 
edodes (Berk.) Singer).

Moonmoon M(1), Shelly NJ, Khan MA, Uddin MN, Hossain K, Tania M, Ahmed S.

Author information:
(1)National Mushroom Development and Extension Centre, Savar, Dhaka 1340, 
Bangladesh.

The cultivation of shiitake mushroom (Lentinus edodes) is increasing rapidly in 
Bangladesh due to its nutritional and medicinal importance with excellent flavor 
and longer shelf life. With the aim of increased production, we have cultivated 
L. edodes on saw dust (SD) supplemented with different levels (10%, 15%, 20%, 
25%, 30%, 35% and 40%) of wheat bran (WB), rice bran (RB), maize powder (MP) and 
their combination (WB+RB+MP = 1:1:1) to investigate the growth, yield and 
quality of this mushroom. Most of the growth, yield and quality parameters 
varied significantly when mushrooms were cultivated with different levels of 
supplementation. The yield of mushroom was increased with the level of each 
supplementation upto a certain level, and then decreased. SD supplemented with 
25% WB produced the highest number of fruiting bodies (34.8/500 g packet), 
highest biological yield (153.3/500 g packet), and biological efficiency (76.6%) 
of L. edodes. But the yield of the best quality mushroom was observed on SD with 
40% WB supplementation; however, the qualities were not always supplementation 
dose dependent. In this study, we report that 25% WB supplementation with SD may 
be very effective for higher yield and 40% WB supplementation for better quality 
of L. edodes.

DOI: 10.1016/j.sjbs.2010.12.008
PMCID: PMC3730944
PMID: 23961143


851. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Aug;17(34):1-264. doi: 10.3310/hta17340.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of depth of anaesthesia monitoring 
(E-Entropy, Bispectral Index and Narcotrend): a systematic review and economic 
evaluation.

Shepherd J(1), Jones J, Frampton G, Bryant J, Baxter L, Cooper K.

Author information:
(1)Southampton Health Technology Assessments Centre (SHTAC), University of 
Southampton, Southampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: It is important that the level of general anaesthesia (GA) is 
appropriate for the individual patient undergoing surgery. If anaesthesia is 
deeper than required to keep a patient unconscious, there might be increased 
risk of anaesthetic-related morbidity, such as postoperative nausea, vomiting 
and cognitive dysfunction. This may also prolong recovery times, potentially 
increasing health-care costs. If anaesthesia is too light, patients may not be 
fully unconscious and could be at risk of intraoperative awareness.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this report is to assess the clinical effectiveness 
and cost-effectiveness of Bispectral Index (BIS), E-Entropy and Narcotrend 
technologies, each compared with standard clinical monitoring, to monitor the 
depth of anaesthesia in surgical patients undergoing GA.
DATA SOURCES: A search strategy was developed and run on a number of 
bibliographic electronic databases including MEDLINE, EMBASE, The Cochrane 
Library and the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) database. For the systematic 
review of patient outcomes, databases were searched from the beginning of 2009 
to November 2011 for studies of BIS (and then updated in February 2012), and 
from 1995 to November 2011 (and then updated in February 2012) for studies of 
E-Entropy and Narcotrend. For the systematic review of cost-effectiveness, 
searches were from database inception to November 2011 (an update search was 
performed in February 2012).
REVIEW METHODS: The systematic review of patient outcomes followed standard 
methodology for evidence synthesis. A decision-analytic model was developed to 
assess the cost-effectiveness of depth of anaesthesia monitoring compared with 
standard clinical observation. A simple decision tree was developed, which 
accounted for patients' risk of experiencing short-term anaesthetic-related 
complications in addition to risk of experiencing intraoperative awareness.
RESULTS: Twenty-two randomised controlled trials comparing BIS, E-Entropy and 
Narcotrend with standard clinical monitoring were included in the systematic 
review of patient outcomes, alongside evidence from a recent Cochrane review. 
Six trials of patients classified with risk factors for intraoperative awareness 
were combined in a fixed-effect meta-analysis. The overall pooled Peto's odds 
ratio was 0.45 (95% confidence interval 0.25 to 0.81) in favour of BIS. However, 
there was statistically significant heterogeneity. The base-case cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) for BIS compared with standard clinical 
monitoring ranged from £22,339 to £44,198 depending on patient subgroups (type 
of GA received; level of risk for awareness). For E-Entropy, base-case estimates 
ranged from £14,421 to £31,430. For Narcotrend, estimates varied from a cost per 
QALY of £8033 to Narcotrend dominating standard clinical monitoring.
LIMITATIONS: The analysis was limited by lack of clinical effectiveness data, 
particularly for E-Entropy and Narcotrend.
CONCLUSIONS: The available evidence on the impact of the technologies on 
reducing the likelihood of intraoperative awareness is limited. However, there 
were reductions in general anaesthetic consumption and anaesthetic recovery 
times. The cost-effectiveness of depth of anaesthesia monitoring appears to be 
highly dependent on a number of factors, including probability of awareness.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO registration number CRD42011001834.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17340
PMCID: PMC4781161
PMID: 23962378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Psychol Med. 2014 May;44(7):1451-60. doi: 10.1017/S0033291713002079. Epub
2013  Aug 21.

Cost-effectiveness of combining systematic identification and treatment of 
co-morbid major depression for people with chronic diseases: the example of 
cancer.

Walker S(1), Walker J(2), Richardson G(1), Palmer S(1), Wu Q(3), Gilbody S(3), 
Martin P(4), Hansen CH(4), Sawhney A(4), Murray G(5), Sculpher M(1), Sharpe 
M(2).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, Heslington, York, UK.
(2)Psychological Medicine Research, University of Oxford Department of 
Psychiatry, Warneford Hospital, Oxford, UK.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, Heslington, York, UK.
(4)Psychological Medicine Research, University of Edinburgh Cancer Research 
Centre, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.
(5)University of Edinburgh Centre for Population Health Sciences, Edinburgh, UK.

BACKGROUND: Co-morbid major depression occurs in approximately 10% of people 
suffering from a chronic medical condition such as cancer. Systematic integrated 
management that includes both identification and treatment has been advocated. 
However, we lack information on the cost-effectiveness of this combined 
approach, as published evaluations have focused solely on the systematic 
(collaborative care) treatment stage. We therefore aimed to use the best 
available evidence to estimate the cost-effectiveness of systematic integrated 
management (both identification and treatment) compared with usual practice, for 
patients attending specialist cancer clinics.
METHOD: We conducted a cost-effectiveness analysis using a decision analytic 
model structured to reflect both the identification and treatment processes. 
Evidence was taken from reviews of relevant clinical trials and from 
observational studies, together with data from a large depression screening 
service. Sensitivity and scenario analyses were undertaken to determine the 
effects of variations in depression incidence rates, time horizons and patient 
characteristics.
RESULTS: Systematic integrated depression management generated more costs than 
usual practice, but also more quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was £11,765 per QALY. This finding 
was robust to tests of uncertainty and variation in key model parameters.
CONCLUSIONS: Systematic integrated management of co-morbid major depression in 
cancer patients is likely to be cost-effective at widely accepted threshold 
values and may be a better way of generating QALYs for cancer patients than some 
existing medical and surgical treatments. It could usefully be applied to other 
chronic medical conditions.

DOI: 10.1017/S0033291713002079
PMID: 23962484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Front Physiol. 2013 Aug 12;4:209. doi: 10.3389/fphys.2013.00209. eCollection
 2013.

Physical activity ameliorates cardiovascular health in elderly subjects: the 
functional role of the β adrenergic system.

Santulli G(1), Ciccarelli M, Trimarco B, Iaccarino G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Medical Sciences, "Federico II" University 
Naples, Italy ; Department of Advanced Biomedical Sciences, "Federico II" 
University Naples, Italy ; College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York 
Presbyterian Hospital, Columbia University in the City of New York Manhattan, 
New York, NY, USA.

Aging is a complex process characterized by a gradual decline in organ 
functional reserves, which eventually reduces the ability to maintain 
homeostasis. An exquisite feature of elderly subjects, which constitute a 
growing proportion of the world population, is the high prevalence of 
cardiovascular disorders, which negatively affect both the quality of life and 
the life expectancy. It is widely acknowledged that physical activity represents 
one of the foremost interventions capable in reducing the health burden of 
cardiovascular disease. Interestingly, the benefits of moderate-intensity 
physical activity have been established both in young and elderly subjects. 
Herein we provide a systematic and updated appraisal of the literature exploring 
the pathophysiological mechanisms evoked by physical activity in the elderly, 
focusing on the functional role of the β adrenergic system.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2013.00209
PMCID: PMC3740240
PMID: 23964243


854. J Med Assoc Thai. 2012 Jan;95 Suppl 1:S92-101.

Mental health status, including depression and quality of life among members of 
an elderly club in suburban Bangkok.

Kosulwit L(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Faculty of Medicine, Thammasat University, 
