METHODS: A microsimulation using hospital and ambulance data from consecutive 
emergency admissions to 10 local acute stroke units estimated the effect of 
redirection to 2 regional neuroscience centers. Modeled outcomes reflected 
additional journey time and accuracy of stroke identification in the prehospital 
phase, and the relative efficiency of patient selection and door-needle time for 
each local site compared with the nearest regional neuroscience center.
RESULTS: Thrombolysis was received by 223/1884 emergency admissions. Based on 
observed site performance, 68 additional patients would have been treated after 
theoretical redirection of 1269 true positive cases and 363 stroke mimics to the 
neuroscience center. Over 5 years redirection of this cohort generated 12.6 
quality-adjusted life years at a marginal cost of £6730 ($10,320, €8347). The 
average additional cost of a quality-adjusted life year gain was £534 ($819, 
€673).
CONCLUSIONS: Under these specific circumstances, redirection would have improved 
outcomes from thrombolysis at little additional cost.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.113.001240
PMID: 23982716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


907. Osteoporos Int. 2014 Feb;25(2):711-20. doi: 10.1007/s00198-013-2483-6. Epub
2013  Aug 28.

Age-period-cohort effects in the incidence of hip fractures: political and 
economic events are coincident with changes in risk.

Alves SM(1), Castiglione D, Oliveira CM, de Sousa B, Pina MF.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Engenharia Biomédica (INEB), Rua do Campo Alegre, 823, 4150-180, 
Porto, Portugal, smfa@ineb.up.pt.

An age-period cohort model was fitted to analyse time effects on hip fracture 
incidence rates by sex (Portugal, 2000-2008). Rates increased exponentially with 
age (age effect). Incidence rates decreased after 2004 for women and were random 
for men (period effect). New but comprehensive fluctuations in risk were 
coincident with major political/economic changes (cohort effect).
INTRODUCTION: Healthcare improvements have allowed prevention but have also 
increased life expectancy, resulting in more people being at risk. Our aim was 
to analyse the separate effects of age, period and cohort on incidence rates by 
sex in Portugal, 2000-2008.
METHODS: From the National Hospital Discharge Register, we selected admissions 
(aged ≥ 49 years) with hip fractures (ICD9-CM, codes 820.x) caused by 
low/moderate trauma (falls from standing height or less), readmissions and bone 
cancer cases. We calculated person-years at risk using population data from 
Statistics Portugal. To identify period and cohort effects for all ages, we used 
an age-period-cohort model (1-year intervals) followed by generalised additive 
models with a negative binomial distribution of the observed incidence rates of 
hip fractures.
RESULTS: There were 77,083 hospital admissions (77.4 % women). Incidence rates 
increased exponentially with age for both sexes (age effect). Incidence rates 
fell after 2004 for women and were random for men (period effect). There was a 
general cohort effect similar in both sexes; risk of hip fracture altered from 
an increasing trend for those born before 1930 to a decreasing trend following 
that year. Risk alterations (not statistically significant) coincident with 
major political and economic change in the history of Portugal were observed 
around birth cohorts 1920 (stable-increasing), 1940 (decreasing-increasing) and 
1950 (increasing-decreasing only among women).
CONCLUSIONS: Hip fracture risk was higher for those born during major 
economically/politically unstable periods. Although bone quality reflects 
lifetime exposure, conditions at birth may determine future risk for hip 
fractures.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-013-2483-6
PMID: 23982801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


908. J Surg Oncol. 2013 Dec;108(7):499-503. doi: 10.1002/jso.23418. Epub 2013 Aug
27.

Less invasive palliative surgery for spinal metastases.

Kim CH(1), Chung CK, Sohn S, Lee S, Park SB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Seoul National University Hospital and College of 
Medicine, Seoul, South Korea; Neuroscience Research Institute, Seoul National 
University Medical Research Center, Seoul, South Korea; Clinical Research 
Institute, Seoul National University Hospital, Seoul, South Korea.

BACKGROUND: There may be patients with spinal metastasis for whom neither 
vertebroplasty/kyphoplasty nor open surgery is appropriate. Percutaneous pedicle 
screw fixation (PPSF) may fill the gap between techniques.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the outcome of the PPSF and radiotherapy/chemotherapy.
METHODS: PPSF was performed for 16 patients (mean age, 57  ± 12 years) with 
pathologic fractures, Tomita score ≥ 5, 3-6 months of life expectancy, minimal 
epidural tumor extension and a Nurick grade better than 3. PPSF was performed 
under general anesthesia. Collapsed vertebra(e) was restored during assembly of 
contoured rod. Vertebroplasty was then performed for 14 patients at the restored 
vertebra(e). The Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status 
grade was 2 in seven patients and 3 in nine. The numerical rating pain score 
(NRS) was 8.2  ± 1.8. The follow-up was 261 ± 193 days.
RESULTS: All patients walked home at postoperative day 4-7. Radiotherapy and 
chemotherapy was performed for 8 and 10 patients, respectively. ECOG was 
improved or stationary in 13/16 (81%) at 1-month and improved in 6/6 of alive 
patients at the last follow-up. NRS was 3.8 ± 2.0. The median ambulation and 
survival times were 207 and 222 days.
CONCLUSION: Using a multidisciplinary approach, quality of life can be improved 
for fragile patients with spinal metastasis.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.23418
PMID: 23982866 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Int J Circumpolar Health. 2013 Aug 5;72. doi: 10.3402/ijch.v72i0.21166. 
eCollection 2013.

Health status of Native people living in the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia).

Burtseva T(1), Uvarova T, Savvina M, Shadrin V, Avrusin S, Chasnyk V.

Author information:
(1)Yakut Research Centre for Complex Medical Problems SB RAMS, Yakutsk, Russian 
Federation.

BACKGROUND: Native people of the Republic of Sakha (Yakutia) live mostly in 
northern regions in the so-called "national settlements". Natives usually 
experience more health-related problems as compared to the total population. As 
a result, life expectancy at the birth of Natives living in the Republic of 
Sakha (Yakutia) is lower compared to ethnic groups living in European countries, 
in the United States, and in Canada.
OBJECTIVE OF THE STUDY: To determine the prevalence of diseases among Natives 
living in Yakutia and to compare the standards of living for Dolgans living in 
the Anabarsky region and Evenks living in Gigansky and Ust-Maysky regions.
STUDY DESIGN/METHODS: The study was designed as a population-based, 
cross-sectional examination with the addition of a cross-sectional survey for 
Dolgans and Evenks. Data were obtained from 324 Evenks, 43 Evens, 230 Dolgans, 
and 216 people of other ethnic groups, aged 17-86. In the additional 
cross-sectional survey, 155 Dolgans and 292 Evenks were included.
RESULTS: Among Natives, the most prevalent diseases are digestive diseases (67.9 
cases per 100 examined), diseases of the genitourinary system (45.3 per 100 
examined), circulatory system diseases (44.4 per 100 examined), diseases of the 
respiratory system (36.9 cases per 100 examined) and diseases of the 
musculoskeletal system and connective tissue (28.4 cases per 100 examined). 
There are differences in the prevalence among Natives living in different 
regions. Anabarsky region has the lowest disease burden and Dolgans inhabiting 
this region have higher standards of living than Evenks living in Gigansky and 
Ust-Maysky regions.
CONCLUSIONS: The prevalence of diseases among the Natives, living in the 
Republic of Sakha (Yakutia), is very high. Differences in raw prevalence rate 
between Native ethnic groups were found, but it is unknown whether these 
differences can be assigned rather to the difference in standards of living in 
the inhabited locality than to ethnicity itself.

DOI: 10.3402/ijch.v72i0.21166
PMCID: PMC3753135
PMID: 23984287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Int J Circumpolar Health. 2013 Aug 5;72. doi: 10.3402/ijch.v72i0.21402. 
eCollection 2013.

Circumpolar Inuit health systems.

Ellsworth L(1), O'Keeffe A.

Author information:
(1)Inuit Circumpolar Council, Ottawa, ON, Canada. 
lellsworth@inuitcircumpolar.com

BACKGROUND: The Inuit are an indigenous people totalling about 160,000 and 
living in 4 countries across the Arctic - Canada, Greenland, USA (Alaska) and 
Russia (Chukotka). In essence, they are one people living in 4 countries. 
Although there have been significant improvements in Inuit health and survival 
over the past 50 years, stark differences persist between the key health 
indicators for Inuit and those of the national populations in the United States, 
Canada and Russia and between Greenland and Denmark. On average, life expectancy 
in all 4 countries is lower for Inuit. Infant mortality rates are also markedly 
different with up to 3 times more infant deaths than the broader national 
average. Underlying these statistical differences are a range of health, social, 
economic and environmental factors which have affected Inuit health outcomes. 
Although the health challenges confronting the Inuit are in many cases similar 
across the Arctic, the responses to these challenges vary in accordance with the 
types of health systems in place in each of the 4 countries. Each of the 4 
countries has a different health care system with varying degrees of 
accessibility and affordability for Inuit living in urban, rural and remote 
areas.
OBJECTIVE: To describe funding and governance arrangements for health services 
to Inuit in Canada, Greenland, USA (Alaska) and Russia (Chukotka) and to 
determine if a particular national system leads to better outcomes than any of 
the other 3 systems.
STUDY DESIGN: Literature review.
RESULTS: It was not possible to draw linkages between the different 
characteristics of the respective health systems, the corresponding financial 
investment and the systems' effectiveness in adequately serving Inuit health 
needs for several reasons including the very limited and inadequate collection 
of Inuit-specific health data by Canada, Alaska and Russia; and second, the data 
that are available do not necessarily provide a feasible point of comparison in 
terms of methodology and timing of the available data collection.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the variations in the health systems as well as national, 
political and economic approaches, none is adequately addressing Inuit health 
needs. All Inuit populations still have significant gaps between their health 
status and those of broader national populations. Meaningful measurement and 
evaluation of the effectiveness of the respective health systems is severely 
hindered by the lack of relevant, Inuit-specific health data. The inadequacy, 
and in a number of cases absence of relevant data, hinders the design and 
development of a better and potentially more effective approach to delivering 
health services to Inuit.

DOI: 10.3402/ijch.v72i0.21402
PMCID: PMC3753164
PMID: 23984305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Jpn Hosp. 2013 Jul;(32):29-37.

Evidence-based policy making for sustainable healthcare in Japan: 2025 and 
beyond.

Kawabuchi K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science Policies, Division of Public Health, Graduate 
School of Medical and Dental Sciences, Tokyo Medical and Dental University.

PMID: 23984540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. J Transl Med. 2013 Aug 29;11:201. doi: 10.1186/1479-5876-11-201.

The clinical utility of bone marker measurements in osteoporosis.

Wheater G(1), Elshahaly M, Tuck SP, Datta HK, van Laar JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, The James Cook University Hospital, Middlesbrough 
TS4 3BW, UK. gill.wheater@stees.nhs.uk.

Osteoporosis is characterised by low bone mass and structural deterioration of 
bone tissue, resulting in increased fragility and susceptibility to fracture. 
Osteoporotic fractures are a significant cause of morbidity and mortality. 
Direct medical costs from such fractures in the UK are currently estimated at 
over two billion pounds per year, resulting in a substantial healthcare burden 
that is expected to rise exponentially due to increasing life expectancy. 
Currently bone mineral density is the WHO standard for diagnosis of 
osteoporosis, but poor sensitivity means that potential fractures will be missed 
if it is used alone. During the past decade considerable progress has been made 
in the identification and characterisation of specific biomarkers to aid the 
management of metabolic bone disease. Technological developments have greatly 
enhanced assay performance producing reliable, rapid, non-invasive cost 
effective assays with improved sensitivity and specificity. We now have a 
greater understanding of the need to regulate pre-analytical sample collection 
to minimise the effects of biological variation. However, bone turnover markers 
(BTMs) still have limited clinical utility. It is not routinely recommended to 
use BTMs to select those at risk of fractures, but baseline measurements of 
resorption markers are useful before commencement of anti-resorptive treatment 
and can be checked 3-6 months later to monitor response and adherence to 
treatment. Similarly, formation markers can be used to monitor bone forming 
agents. BTMs may also be useful when monitoring patients during treatment 
holidays and aid in the decision as to when therapy should be recommenced. 
Recent recommendations by the Bone Marker Standards Working Group propose to 
standardise research and include a specific marker of bone resorption (CTX) and 
bone formation (P1NP) in all future studies. It is hoped that improved research 
in turn will lead to optimised markers for the clinical management of 
osteoporosis and other bone diseases.

DOI: 10.1186/1479-5876-11-201
PMCID: PMC3765909
PMID: 23984630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2013 Aug 28;11:146. doi:
10.1186/1477-7525-11-146.

Attitudes to aging mediate the relationship between older peoples' subjective 
health and quality of life in 20 countries.

Low G(1), Molzahn AE, Schopflocher D.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, University of Alberta, 11405-87 Avenue, Edmonton, AB T6G 
1C9, Canada. gail.low@ualberta.ca.

BACKGROUND: With ever-increasing life expectancy globally, it is imperative to 
build knowledge of how older peoples' views of their own aging, considering 
their health-related circumstances, affect quality of life for practitioners and 
policy-makers alike. Based on our literature review, we wanted to determine 
whether older adults' attitudes toward their own aging would partly mediate the 
effect of their health satisfaction ratings upon their quality of life. 
Furthermore, would these attitudes mediate the relationship between health 
satisfaction and quality of life in the same way when we account for older 
adults' country of origin, and their age and gender?
METHODS: This was a secondary analysis of cross-sectional survey data collected 
in 20 countries taking part in the 2003 WHOQOL-OLD Field study. The study sample 
consisted of 4593 adults whom were, on average, 72.10 years of age (range = 60 
to 100 years of age); 42.8% were female. The WHOQOL-BREF measured quality of 
life and health satisfaction. The Attitudes to Aging Questionnaire measured 
participants' attitudes toward physical change, psychosocial loss, and 
psychological growth. All items in both questionnaires were measured on a 
5-point Likert scale. Questionnaire responses were analyzed using multilevel 
modeling and path analysis.
RESULTS: All three attitudes to aging partly mediated the relationship between 
health satisfaction and physical, psychological, social, environmental, and 
global quality of life. These partial mediations manifested in the same way 
across all 20 country samples, regardless of age or gender. Attitudes toward 
physical change were the strongest mediator of health satisfaction upon global 
and domain-specific quality of life, followed by psychosocial loss and 
psychosocial growth.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study is the first cross-cultural study with a large sample to 
show that quality of life judgements, between 60 to 100 years of age, are a 
product of older men's and women's perceptions of health-related circumstances, 
and attitudes toward physical and psychosocial aspects of the aging self. A 
prospective study of the linkages between older peoples' subjective views of 
health and attitudes toward the aging self over time using multiple subjective 
measures of health is warranted. Understanding these linkages may help 
practitioners and policy makers consider strategies to enhance quality of life.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-11-146
PMCID: PMC3765777
PMID: 23984754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. Health Promot Int. 2015 Sep;30(3):736-45. doi: 10.1093/heapro/dat063. Epub
2013  Aug 28.

Gender differences in health information behaviour: a Finnish population-based 
survey.

Ek S(1).

Author information:
(1)Information Studies, Åbo Akademi University, Turku, Finland& Information 
Studies, University of Oulu, Oulu, Finland sek@abo.fi.

Narrowing the gaps in health outcomes, including those between men and women, 
has been a pronounced goal on the agenda of the Finnish health authorities since 
the mid-1980s. But still there is a huge gap in favour of women when it comes to 
life expectancy at birth. People's health information behaviour, that is how 
people seek, obtain, evaluate, categorize and use relevant health-related 
information to perform desired health behaviours, is a critical prerequisite to 
appropriate and consistent performances of these behaviours. With respect to 
gender, it has been noted that men often are unwilling and lack the motivation 
to engage with health-related information. The purpose of this study was to 
investigate how gender affects health information behaviour in the Finnish 
population aged 18-65 years. The survey data were collected via a questionnaire 
which was posted to a representative cross section consisting of 1500 Finnish 
citizens. The statistical analysis consists of ANOVA F-tests and Fisher's exact 
tests. The results show that women were more interested in and reported much 
more active seeking of health-related information, paid more attention to 
potential worldwide pandemics and were much more attentive as to how the goods 
they purchase in everyday life affect their health than men did. Women also 
reported receiving far more informal health-related information from close 
family members, other kin and friends/workmates than men did. Thus, to succeed 
in public health promotion and interventions the measures taken should be much 
more sensitive to the gender gap in health information behaviour.

© The Author (2013). Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/heapro/dat063
PMID: 23985248 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Aug;17(36):1-263, v-vi. doi: 10.3310/hta17360.

Echocardiography in newly diagnosed atrial fibrillation patients: a systematic 
review and economic evaluation.

Simpson E(1), Stevenson M, Scope A, Poku E, Minton J, Evans P.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK. e.l.simpson@sheffield.ac.uk

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
transthoracic echocardiography (TTE) in all patients who are newly diagnosed 
with atrial fibrillation (AF).
DESIGN: Narrative synthesis reviews were conducted on the prognostic and 
diagnostic accuracy of TTE for, and prevalence of, pathologies in patients with 
AF. Databases were searched from inception. MEDLINE searches were conducted from 
March to August 2010, and reference lists of articles checked. There were 44 
diagnostic accuracy studies, five prognostic studies, and 16 prevalence studies 
accepted into the review. Given the complexity of the many pathologies 
identified by TTE, the variety of potential changes to clinical management, and 
paucity of data, the model focused on changes to oral anticoagulation (OAC). The 
mathematical model assessed the cost-effectiveness of TTE for patients with AF 
who were not routinely given OAC, assuming, if left atrial abnormality was 
detected, that the higher risk of stroke warranted OAC; this meant that patients 
with a CHADS2 (cardiac failure, hypertension, age, diabetes, stroke doubled) 
score of 0 [dabigatran etexilate (Pradaxa, Boehringer Ingelheim)/rivaroxaban 
(Xarelto, Bayer Schering)] or 0/1 (warfarin) were included. A simplified 
approach evaluated the additional quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) required 
in order for TTE to be perceived as cost-effective at a threshold of £20,000 per 
QALY.
SETTING: Transthoracic echocardiography is usually performed in cardiology 
clinics but may be used in primary or non-specialist secondary care.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with newly diagnosed AF.
INTERVENTION: Transthoracic echocardiography.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Prognosis, diagnostic sensitivity or specificity of TTE, 
prevalence of pathologies in patients with AF, cost-effectiveness and QALYs.
RESULTS: Prognostic studies indicated that TTE-diagnosed left ventricular 
dysfunction, increased left atrial diameter and valvular abnormality were 
significantly associated with an increased risk of stroke, mortality or 
thromboembolism. There was a high prevalence (around 25-30%) of ischaemic heart 
disease, valvular heart disease and heart failure in patients with AF. 
Diagnostic accuracy of TTE was high, with most pathologies having specificity of 
≥ 0.8 and sensitivity of ≥ 0.6. The mathematical model predicted that when the 
CHADS2 tool is used the addition of TTE in identifying patients with left atrial 
abnormality appears to be cost-effective for informing some OAC decisions. In 
the simplified approach a threshold of 0.0033 was required for a TTE to be 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: When CHADS2 was used, the addition of TTE in identifying patients 
with left atrial abnormality was cost-effective for informing some OAC 
decisions. A simple analysis indicates that the number of QALYs required for TTE 
to be cost-effective is small, and that if benefits beyond those associated with 
a reduction in stroke are believed probable then TTE is likely to be 
cost-effective in all scenarios. Our findings suggest that further research 
would be useful, following up newly diagnosed patients with AF who have 
undergone TTE, to study treatments given as a result of TTE diagnoses and 
subsequent cardiovascular events. This could identify additional benefits of 
routine testing, beyond stroke prevention. Studies assessing the proportion of 
people with a CHADS2 score of 0 or 1 that have left atrial abnormality would 
provide better estimates of the cost-effectiveness of TTE, and allow more 
accurate estimates of the sensitivity and specificity of TTE for identifying 
left atrial abnormality in AF to be obtained.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42011001354.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17360
PMCID: PMC4781049
PMID: 23985296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. J Pharmacol Sci. 2013 Sep 20;123(1):9-24. doi: 10.1254/jphs.13r01sr. Epub
2013  Aug 27.

Effects of melatonin on nervous system aging: neurogenesis and 
neurodegeneration.

Sarlak G(1), Jenwitheesuk A, Chetsawang B, Govitrapong P.

Author information:
(1)Research Center for Neuroscience, Institute of Molecular Biosciences, Mahidol 
University, Thailand.

Neural aging as a progressive loss of function involves central and peripheral 
post-mitotic neurons and neural stem cells (NSCs). It promotes 
neurodegeneration, impairs neurogenesis, and can be considered a cause of 
cognitive impairment and sensory and motor deficits in the elderly. Age-related 
morphological atrophic changes and cellular alterations are addressed by neural 
aging mechanisms. Neurogenesis declines during aging through several mechanisms 
such as an increase in quiescence state, changes in lineage fate, telomerase 
dysfunction, the failure of the DNA repair system, increased apoptosis, and the 
impairment of self-renewal. The self-renewal transcriptional factor Sox2 has 
been correlated with retrotransposon L1 and certain cell-cycle- and 
epigenetic-related factors, which are sometimes considered age-related factors 
in NSC aging. As neurogenesis decreases, non-mitotic neurons undergo 
neurodegeneration by oxidative stress, sirtuin, insulin signaling and mTOR 
alteration, mitochondrial dysfunction, and protein misfolding and aggregation. 
As neurodegeneration and impaired neurogenesis promote the nervous system aging 
process, the identification of neuronal anti-aging is required to raise life 
expectancy. The role of melatonin in increasing neurogenesis and protecting 
against neurodegeneration has been investigated. Here, we review nervous system 
aging that is correlated with mechanisms of neurodegeneration and the impairment 
of neurogenesis and evaluate the effects of melatonin on these processes.

DOI: 10.1254/jphs.13r01sr
PMID: 23985544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2013 Aug;40(8):967-70.

[Economic evaluation of targeted cancer therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Ikeda S(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, International University of Health and Welfare, Japan.

Medical technology, especially cancer therapy, has been recognized as having a 
major role both in improving health care and in increasing costs. Economic 
evaluation is considered the basis for resource allocation because it allows 
decision makers to consider the relative value of alternative uses of available 
resources. Analytical techniques used for economic evaluation in the healthcare 
sector are designed to compare alternative treatment strategies in terms of cost 
and outcome. There are 4 types of economic evaluation: cost-minimization 
analysis, cost-effectiveness analysis, cost-utility analysis, and cost-benefit 
analysis. The difference between these techniques relates to the way in which 
the outcomes are measured. Cost-utility analysis reflects value for money in 
terms of a single type of health outcome, such as quality-adjusted life 
year(QALY). This approach incorporates both an increase in survival time(extra 
life years)and changes in the quality of life(with or without increased 
survival)into 1 measure. An increase in the quality of life is expressed as a 
utility value on a scale of 0(dead)to 1 (perfect quality of life). The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio(ICER)in this case is expressed as the 
incremental cost to gain an extra QALY. The main attraction of cost-utility 
analysis is its ability to compare different interventions for different 
diseases, and this type of economic evaluation is widely used for targeted 
cancer therapy.

PMID: 23986036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2013 Aug;40(8):998-1002.

[Treatable and untreatable forms of recurrent prostate cancer].

[Article in Japanese]

Ueda T(1), Kobayashi M, Komaru A, Fukazawa K, Akakura K.

Author information:
(1)Chiba Cancer Center, Japan.

The incidence of prostate cancer in the Japanese population has increased 
because of the increase in life expectancy, consumption of westernized diets, 
and improvements in prostate cancer screening by using the prostate-specific 
antigen (PSA)test. Further, in the past 10 years, there have been great 
advancements in the treatment options available for prostate cancer. Radical 
treatment methods, such as robot-assisted surgery, intensity-modulated radiation 
therapy, and particle beam radiation therapy, may have anticancer effects and 
may improve the quality of life by preserving micturition ability and sexual 
function. Radiotherapy and endocrine therapy have been shown to prevent 
postoperative recurrence. Endocrine therapy has been demonstrated to be 
effective in preventing recurrence after radiotherapy. Moreover, endocrine 
therapy can be administered to patients at all stages of prostate cancer and is 
often used as the initial treatment for advanced prostate cancer, particularly 
in patients with metastasis. However, recurrence(relapse)after endocrine therapy 
is associated with a poor prognosis. In this study, we describe all the 
available treatment options for prostate cancer and the treatable and 
untreatable forms of recurrent prostate cancer.

PMID: 23986043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. Carbohydr Polym. 2013 Oct 15;98(1):754-60. doi:
10.1016/j.carbpol.2013.04.020.  Epub 2013 Jun 6.

Rheology and synergy of κ-carrageenan/locust bean gum/konjac glucomannan gels.

Brenner T(1), Wang Z, Achayuthakan P, Nakajima T, Nishinari K.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Human Life Science, Osaka City University, Osaka, Japan. 
physicalchemistrytom@gmail.com

The rheology and melting of mixed polysaccharide gels containing konjac 
glucomannan (KGM), locust bean gum (LBG) and κ-carrageenan (KC) were studied. 
Synergy-type peaks in the Young's modulus at optimal mixing ratios were found 
for both KC/LBG and KC/KGM binary gels at a fixed total polysaccharide content 
(1:5.5 for LBG:KC and 1:7 for KGM:KC). The Young's modulus peak for KC/KGM was 
higher than for KC/LBG gels. The same stoichiometric mixing ratios were found 
when either LBG or KGM was added to KC at a fixed KC concentration, where the 
Young's modulus increased up to additions at the stoichiometric ratio, but 
leveled off at higher LBG or KGM additions. Addition of KGM or LBG to the 
2-component gels beyond the stoichiometric (optimal) mixing ratio at a fixed 
total polysaccharide content led to a decrease in the Young's modulus and an 
increase in the rupture strain and stress in extension, and both trends were 
stronger for KGM than for LBG. Differential scanning calorimetry of the gels 
revealed the development of a second melting peak for the KC/KGM gels that 
increased with KGM addition up to higher KGM contents than the stoichiometric 
ratio. For the KC/LBG gels, only a slight broadening and shift to a higher 
temperature were observed. When the three polysaccharides were mixed, the DSC 
endotherms reflected only the main features of the interaction between KC and 
KGM, and the same was true for the fracture in extension. The different trends 
led to higher Young's moduli at intermediate KC concentrations when a 1:1 
addition of LBG:KGM was used than when either only KGM or LBG was added at a 
fixed total polysaccharide concentration. This suggests that no special 
interactions arise when the three polysaccharides are mixed and the binding 
mechanisms are simply a sum of the bindings observed for KC/KGM and KC/LBG 
two-component gels.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.carbpol.2013.04.020
PMID: 23987409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


920. BMC Public Health. 2013 Aug 29;13:787. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-787.

Examining the cost effectiveness of interventions to promote the physical health 
of people with mental health problems: a systematic review.

Park AL(1), McDaid D, Weiser P, Von Gottberg C, Becker T, Kilian R; HELPS 
Network.

Author information:
(1)Personal Social Services Research Unit, London School of Economics and 
Political Science, London, UK. A.Park@lse.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Recently attention has begun to focus not only on assessing the 
effectiveness of interventions to tackle mental health problems, but also on 
measures to prevent physical co-morbidity. Individuals with mental health 
problems are at significantly increased risk of chronic physical health 
problems, such as cardiovascular disease or diabetes, as well as reduced life 
expectancy. The excess costs of co-morbid physical and mental health problems 
are substantial. Potentially, measures to reduce the risk of co-morbid physical 
health problems may represent excellent value for money.
METHODS: To conduct a systematic review to determine what is known about 
economic evaluations of actions to promote better physical health in individuals 
identified as having a clinically diagnosed mental disorder, but no physical 
co-morbidity. Systematic searches of databases were supplemented by hand 
searches of relevant journals and websites.
RESULTS: Of 1970 studies originally assessed, 11 met our inclusion criteria. In 
addition, five protocols for other studies were also identified. Studies looked 
at exercise programmes, nutritional advice, smoking, alcohol and drug cessation, 
and reducing the risk of blood borne infectious diseases such as HIV/AIDS and 
hepatitis. All of the lifestyle and smoking cessation studies focused on people 
with depression and anxiety disorders. Substance abuse and infectious disease 
prevention studies focused on people with psychoses and bipolar disorder.
CONCLUSIONS: There is a very small, albeit growing, literature on the cost 
effectiveness of interventions to promote the physical health of people with 
mental health problems. Most studies suggest that value for money actions in 
specific contexts and settings are available. Given that the success or failure 
of health promoting interventions can be very context specific, more studies are 
needed in more settings, focused on different population groups with different 
mental health problems and reporting intermediate and long term outcomes. There 
is a need to better distinguish between resource use and costs in a transparent 
manner, including impacts outside of the health care system. Issues such as 
programme fidelity, uptake and adherence should also be accounted for in 
economic analysis. The role of behavioural psychological techniques to influence 
health behaviours might also be considered.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-787
PMCID: PMC3765875
PMID: 23988266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2014 Jun;147(6):1884-91. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.07.005. Epub 2013 Aug 26.

Long-term results of the Medtronic Mosaic porcine bioprosthesis in the aortic 
position.

Anselmi A(1), Flécher E(2), Ruggieri VG(2), Harmouche M(2), Langanay T(2), 
Corbineau H(2), Verhoye JP(2), Leguerrier A(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Pontchaillou University 
Hospital, Rennes, France. Electronic address: amedeo.anselmi@alice.it.
(2)Division of Thoracic and Cardiovascular Surgery, Pontchaillou University 
Hospital, Rennes, France.

OBJECTIVE: We addressed the long-term results of the Medtronic Mosaic porcine 
prosthesis in the aortic position.
METHODS: From 1994 to 2004, 1007 Mosaic valves were used for aortic valve 
replacement. The data were prospectively collected, retrospectively analyzed, 
and stratified according to patient age at surgery (group 1, <70 years; group 2, 
70-75 years; group 3, 76-80 years; and group 4, >80 years), using both actual 
(cumulative risks) and actuarial methods.
RESULTS: Operative mortality was 5% (valve related in 14%). Globally, 8122.17 
patient-years were available (average follow-up, 8.5 ± 3.9 years; 99.8% 
complete). Overall, survival at 15 years was lower among the elderly strata (P < 
.0001). Freedom from structural valve deterioration (SVD) was 95.1% (actual) and 
86.3% (actuarial; 24 SVD events). Survival free from SVD was lower in group 1 (P 
= .003) but comparable among the other groups. Overall freedom at 15 years from 
the composite endpoint (any valve-related adverse events) was 82% (actual) and 
71.3% (actuarial). No meaningful intergroup differences were found in survival 
free from the composite endpoint (P = .9) or freedom from valve-related 
mortality (P = .8). Younger patients at surgery did not show accelerated 
degeneration. No relationship could be established between prosthetic size and 
SVD.
CONCLUSIONS: The implantation of a bioprosthesis in patients aged 70 years or 
older remains fully justified. The rate of SVD was higher in younger patients, 
mainly owing to their greater life expectancy. Patients younger than 70 can 
receive a bioprosthesis, provided that the correct information regarding the 
expected durability has been provided. This might be better accomplished through 
the actual methodology.

Copyright © 2014 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.07.005
PMID: 23988288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


922. Ann Vasc Surg. 2013 Nov;27(8):1105-14. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.01.010. Epub
 2013 Aug 26.

Systematic review on health-related quality of life after revascularization and 
primary amputation in patients with critical limb ischemia.

Bosma J(1), Vahl A, Wisselink W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: janbosma@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to assess the effect of 
revascularization (bypass surgery, angioplasty) and primary amputation on 
health-related quality of life (QoL) in patients with critical limb ischemia 
(CLI; resting pain or tissue loss).
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature was performed through an 
electronic search of PubMed (from 1985 to 2012) and Embase (from 1985 to 2012) 
by two independent investigators to identify English-language articles 
investigating health-related QoL in regard to CLI.
RESULTS: Three observational studies were identified describing a comparison 
between primary amputation and revascularization and their effects on QoL in 
patients with CLI, all concluding that revascularization should be attempted. 
Data pooling was omitted due to the impossibility of combining outcome 
parameters. A separate analysis of each article is presented.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with CLI have poor health prospects and life expectancy, 
irrespective of treatment administered. Randomized trials of health-related QoL 
after revascularization versus primary amputation are nonexistent. Also, the 
available observational studies do not allow sound conclusions, due to small 
numbers and methodologic imperfections. Therefore, no recommendations of either 
therapy in patients with CLI can be made with respect to an anticipated 
improvement in QoL.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.01.010
PMID: 23988544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. Gerontology. 2013;59(5):401-7. doi: 10.1159/000351197. Epub 2013 Jul 5.

Thyroid surgery in the elderly.

Schwartz N(1), Shpitzer T, Feinmesser R, Robenshtok E, Bachar G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, Petach Tikva, Israel.

BACKGROUND: The increase in life expectancy combined with the relatively high 
incidence of thyroid disease requiring surgery in the elderly has raised 
questions concerning the appropriate management of the older patient.
AIM: Evaluation of the surgical management and outcome of thyroid disease 
requiring surgery in elderly patients.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective cohort study, in which the medical charts 
of 2,239 patients who underwent total thyroidectomy or hemithyroidectomy between 
1995 and 2011 in a tertiary medical center were reviewed for clinical, 
disease-related, operative and outcome measures. Findings were analyzed between 
the patients aged more than 75 years for whom complete information was available 
(n = 255) and a control group of 100 patients aged 40-60 years matched for sex 
and extent of surgery.
RESULTS: The prevalence of comorbidities was significantly higher in the 
elderly. Presenting symptoms were similar in the two groups; in approximately 
25% of both groups thyroid cancer was an incidental finding. There were no 
between-group differences in surgery duration, time to anesthesia induction, 
recovery time from anesthesia, or rate of postoperative complications. 
Hospitalization was 3 days longer on average in the older group. Malignancy 
rates and distribution of histologic subtypes were similar in the two groups, 
although the older group presented with significantly higher rates of advanced 
disease stage and larger tumors. There were no differences in recurrence rate 
both locoregional and distant metastases. However, a higher proportion of older 
patients failed to achieve cure.
CONCLUSION: Although older patients with thyroid disease have more comorbidities 
and advanced disease, there is no practical difference in their operative 
management and surgical outcome compared to younger patients. Surgery should not 
be deferred solely on the basis of age in the presence of compelling 
indications; rather, the decision should be based on individual risk-benefit 
analysis.

Copyright © 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000351197
PMID: 23988591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Orthopade. 2013 Sep;42(9):709-24. doi: 10.1007/s00132-013-2066-4.

[Solitary spinal metastases. Is aggressive surgical management justified?].

[Article in German]

Druschel C(1), Disch AC, Pumberger M, Schwabe P, Melcher I, Haas NP, Schaser KD.

Author information:
(1)Centrum für Muskuloskeletale Chirurgie, Klinik für Orthopädie, Klinik für 
Unfall- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, Charité-Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Campus Virchow-Klinikum, Augustenburger Platz 1, 13353, Berlin, Deutschland.

Advances in oncological and surgical therapies have led to a significant 
increase in life expectancy of cancer patients and also prolonged survival of 
patients with isolated or multiple metastases. Among the skeletal manifestations 
the spine is the most often affected site. Using novel imaging techniques with 
higher resolution and use of metabolic signatures, the screening of cancer 
patients has improved considerably. Consequently, the diagnosis of metastases is 
becoming increasingly more sensitive. Therefore, but also due to more effective 
polychemotherapy protocols, singular or solitary metastases are more frequently 
observed either in the early stages or as a result of a controlled malignant 
tumor entity (stable disease). The questions whether a solitary metastasis 
really exists (illusion or reality?) and its radical oncological and surgical 
treatment as a circumscribed singular tumor manifestation, is really relevant 
for the overall prognosis, remains controversial. However, it seems evident that 
a biologically favorable underlying tumor biology, radical treatment of the 
primary tumor and a long metastasis-free interval are valid predictors of a good 
oncological outcome. In the presence of a solitary metastasis under these 
circumstances (typical example: solitary metastasis of renal cell carcinoma many 
years after radical tumor nephrectomy) a radical surgical procedure (en bloc 
spondylectomy) can significantly improve the long-term prognosis of this patient 
group in combination with adjuvant chemotherapy and/or radiotherapy. However, a 
thorough evaluation of the overall survival prognosis, a detailed and complete 
staging followed by a treatment consensus in the interdisciplinary tumor board 
has to precede any therapeutical decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-013-2066-4
PMID: 23989590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. J Orthop Traumatol. 2014 Mar;15(1):29-33. doi: 10.1007/s10195-013-0262-y.
Epub  2013 Aug 29.

In-hospital complications following primary total hip and knee arthroplasty in 
octogenarian and nonagenarian patients.

Nanjayan SK(1), Swamy GN, Yellu S, Yallappa S, Abuzakuk T, Straw R.

Author information:
(1)Royal Derby Hospital, Uttoxeter New Road, Derby, DE22 3NE, UK, 
shashikumartn@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy of patients increases, more elderly patients are 
undergoing primary total hip arthroplasty (THA) and total knee arthroplasty 
(TKA). There is a general perception of increased risk of complications in 
elderly patients. Our objective was to analyse the incidence of in-hospital 
medical and surgical complications following THA and TKA in octogenarian and 
nonagenarians.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a prospective review of 202 consecutive patients 
aged more than 80 years who underwent total hip and total knee arthroplasty (101 
THA, 101 TKA) over an 18-month period. In this single-centre observational 
study, collected data included patient demographics, American Society of 
Anethesiologists (ASA) grade, length of hospital stay and peri-operative medical 
and surgical complications during their hospital stay.
RESULTS: Median age of patients was 83 years. Median ASA grade was 3. Mean 
length of hospital stay was 7.5 days. There were 14 major systemic complications 
in the THA group and 13 in the TKA group. While 1 major local complication 
occurred in each group, there were 6 minor local complications in THA and 7 in 
the TKA group. All the complications occurred within 5 post-operative days. 
There was no in-hospital mortality.
CONCLUSION: In our study, we found that the incidence of peri-operative medical 
and surgical complications is higher in those over 80 years, compared to the 
published literature in patients of all age groups undergoing THA and TKA. 
Awareness of a higher incidence of major systemic complications should alert the 
treating surgeon to carry out comprehensive peri-operative management in this 
subset of patients, which could lead to better outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s10195-013-0262-y
PMCID: PMC3948514
PMID: 23989856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. World J Urol. 2014 Apr;32(2):299-308. doi: 10.1007/s00345-013-1158-4. Epub
2013  Aug 30.

Challenging treatment decision-making in older urologic cancer patients.

Ploussard G(1), Albrand G, Rozet F, Lang H, Paillaud E, Mongiat-Artus P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Saint-Louis Hospital, Assistance Publique-Hôpitaux de 
Paris, Paris 7 University, Paris, France, g.ploussard@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: Cancer is the leading cause of death among patients aged 65 years and 
older. In this population, the cancer diagnosis is often made at a more advanced 
stage and worse prognosis than in younger patients. Specific mortality in older 
patients is superior to that reported in their younger counterparts. Moreover, 
the impact of curative treatment that has proven benefit in overall population 
may be not well studied in the sub-group of older patients. Thus, the management 
of cancer in the elderly is a major public health concern in most Western 
countries.
METHODS/RESULTS: In this review, we summarize this challenging treatment 
decision-making in older urologic patients with prostate, kidney or bladder 
cancer. The estimation of life expectancy remains a difficult task. 
Chronological age should not be considered as the main decisive factor anymore 
when considering aggressive cancer treatment. Comorbidities increase the 
complexity of cancer management and affect survival. Multidisciplinary 
evaluation and comprehensive geriatrics assessment using specific scales are 
critical to improve the treatment decision-making and to minimize both 
overtreatment of low-risk disease and undertreatment of high-risk disease. When 
an aggressive and potential quality-of-life-threatening treatment is scheduled 
after this comprehensive geriatrics assessment, personalized patient care must 
be early predefined by the geriatric team.
CONCLUSIONS: In the elderly, an enhanced support including specific geriatric 
assessment and management optimizes the treatment course, including preoperative 
optimization, prevents treatment-related complications and loss of autonomy 
using or not geriatrics clinic or rehabilitation units, and limits the length of 
hospital stay and costs.

DOI: 10.1007/s00345-013-1158-4
PMID: 23990122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Oct;31(10):893-907. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0085-y.

A person trade-off study to estimate age-related weights for health gains in 
economic evaluation.

Petrou S(1), Kandala NB, Robinson A, Baker R.

Author information:
(1)Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, CV4 7AL, UK, 
S.Petrou@warwick.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: An increasing body of literature is exploring whether the age of the 
recipient of health care should be a criterion in how health care resources are 
allocated. The existing literature is constrained both by the relatively small 
number of age comparison groups within preference-elicitation studies, and by a 
paucity of methodological robustness tests for order and framing effects and the 
reliability and transitivity of preferences that would strengthen confidence in 
the results. This paper reports the results of a study aimed at estimating 
granulated age-related weights for health gains across the age spectrum that can 
potentially inform health care decision-making.
METHODS: A sample of 2,500 participants recruited from the health care consumer 
panels of a social research company completed a person trade-off (or 'matching') 
study designed to estimate age-related weights for 5- and 10-year life 
extensions. The results are presented in terms of matrices for alternative age 
comparisons across the age spectrum.
RESULTS: The results revealed a general, although not invariable, tendency to 
give more weight to health gains, expressed in terms of life extensions, in 
younger age groups. In over 85% of age comparisons, the person trade-off 
exercises revealed a preference for life extensions by the younger of the two 
age groups that were compared. This pattern held regardless of the method of 
aggregating responses across study participants. Moreover, the relative weight 
placed on life extensions by the younger of the two age groups was generally, 
although not invariably, found to increase as the age difference between the 
comparator age groups increased. Further analyses revealed that the highest mean 
relative weight placed on life extensions was estimated for 30-year-olds when 
the ratio of means method was used to aggregate person trade-off responses 
across study participants. The highest mean relative weight placed on life 
extensions was estimated for 10-year-olds for 5-year life extensions and for 
30-year-olds for 10-year life extensions, when the median of individual ratios 
method was used to aggregate person trade-off responses across study 
participants. Methodological tests framed around alternative referents in the 
person trade-off questions and the stability of preferences had no discernible 
effects on the study results.
CONCLUSION: This study has produced new evidence on age-related weights for 
health gains that can potentially inform health care decision-making.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0085-y
PMID: 23990389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. Evid Based Med. 2014 Feb;19(1):40. doi: 10.1136/eb-2013-101481. Epub 2013
Aug  29.

Conservative management for low-risk prostate cancer improves quality-adjusted 
life expectancy at lower cost compared with initial treatment.

Klotz L(1).

Author information:
(1)Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, , Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

Comment on
    Ann Intern Med. 2013 Jun 18;158(12):853-60.

DOI: 10.1136/eb-2013-101481
PMID: 23990529 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2013 Sep;43(9):943-4. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyt134.

Estimated disability-adjusted life year (DALY) in all cancers in GLOBOCAN 2008, 
in Asia by the country.

Matsuda A(1), Katanoda K.

Author information:
(1)Surveillance Division, Center for Cancer Control and Information 
Services,National Cancer Center,Chuo-ku, Tokyo, Japan.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyt134
PMID: 23990617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2014 Dec;21(12):1517-30. doi: 10.1177/2047487313501886.
Epub  2013 Aug 29.

Telemonitoring and self-management in the control of hypertension (TASMINH2): a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Kaambwa B(1), Bryan S(2), Jowett S(3), Mant J(4), Bray EP(5), Hobbs FD(6), 
Holder R(5), Jones MI(5), Little P(7), Williams B(8), McManus RJ(9).

Author information:
(1)Flinders Health Economics Group, School of Medicine, Flinders University, 
Repatriation General Hospital, Daw Park, Australia.
(2)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluation, Vancouver Coastal Health 
Research Institute and School of Population and Public Health, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada Stirling.Bryan@ubc.ca.
(3)Health Economics Unit, Division of Health and Population Sciences, University 
of Birmingham, UK.
(4)Primary Care Unit, Institute of Public Health, University of Cambridge, UK.
(5)Primary Care Clinical Sciences, NIHR School for Primary Care Research, 
University of Birmingham, UK.
(6)Primary Care Health Sciences, NIHR School for Primary Care Research, 
University of Oxford, UK.
(7)School of Medicine, University of Southampton, UK.
(8)Institute of Cardiovascular Sciences, University College London, UK.
(9)Primary Care Health Sciences, NIHR School for Primary Care Research, 
University of Oxford, UK richard.mcmanus@phc.ox.ac.uk.

AIMS: Self-monitoring and self-titration of antihypertensives (self-management) 
is a novel intervention which improves blood pressure control. However, little 
evidence exists regarding the cost-effectiveness of self-monitoring of blood 
pressure in general and self-management in particular. This study aimed to 
evaluate whether self-management of hypertension was cost-effective.
DESIGN AND METHODS: A cohort Markov model-based probabilistic cost-effectiveness 
analysis was undertaken extrapolating to up to 35 years from cost and outcome 
data collected from the telemonitoring and self-management in hypertension trial 
(TASMINH2). Self-management of hypertension was compared with usual care in 
terms of lifetime costs, quality adjusted life years and cost-effectiveness 
using a UK Health Service perspective. Sensitivity analyses examined the effect 
