
DOI: 10.1111/1365-2656.12140
PMID: 24128282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2013;157(42):A6703.

[Treating 'healthy' men who have localised cancer of the prostate].

[Article in Dutch]

de Jong IJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitair Medisch Centrum Groningen, afd. Urologie, Groningen.

In 2011, 11,428 men were diagnosed with prostate cancer in the Netherlands and 
2,500 men died from the disease. Since the introduction of the prostate specific 
antigen (PSA) measurements, few men have metastatic disease at the time 
diagnosis. More than half of prostate cancer patients are currently being 
diagnosed with low-volume localised prostate cancer. This raises the question 
whether all of these men should be treated, especially when prostate 
cancer-specific mortality is low compared to overall mortality even in men 
without known comorbidity at the time of diagnosis. In recent series of such 
'healthy' men treated for localised prostate cancer, the overall mortality 
exceeded prostate cancer mortality four to five-fold. Both tumour-related 
factors and general health status affect the outcome of prostate cancer 
treatment. In 'healthy' men with a low-volume, low-risk tumour, initial active 
surveillance is preferred above actual treatment. The small chance of 
progression and the possibility of curative treatment at the time of progression 
should be communicated to the patient. In men with an intermediate- or high-risk 
tumour, active treatment is preferred and depends on age and life expectancy.

PMID: 24128601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Consult Pharm. 2013 Oct;28(10):605-12. doi: 10.4140/TCP.n.2013.605.

Lessons learned from hospice care.

Martin CM(1).

Author information:
(1)Greensboro, North Carolina.

Pharmaceutical care of the hospice patient offers unique challenges in the 
management of pain and other symptoms. Lessons learned in providing hospice care 
can be used in the care of nonterminal patients as well to optimize 
patient-specific care, regardless of care setting or life expectancy.

DOI: 10.4140/TCP.n.2013.605
PMID: 24129218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2013 Dec 1;64(4):382-91. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0000000000000002.

Cost-effectiveness of newer antiretroviral drugs in treatment-experienced 
patients with multidrug-resistant HIV disease.

Bayoumi AM(1), Barnett PG, Joyce VR, Griffin SC, Sun H, Bansback NJ, Holodniy M, 
Sanders G, Brown ST, Kyriakides TC, Angus B, Cameron DW, Anis AH, Sculpher M, 
Owens DK.

Author information:
(1)*Center for Research on Inner City Health, The Keenan Research Center in the 
Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; †Department of Medicine, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada; ‡Institute of Health Policy, Management, and Evaluation, University of 
Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; §Division of General Internal Medicine, St. 
Michael's Hospital, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; ‖VA Palo Alto Health Care System, 
VA Cooperative Studies Program Coordinating Center, VA HSR&D Health Economics 
Resource Center, Menlo Park, CA; ¶Center for Health Economics, University of 
York, York, United Kingdom; #Center for Health Evaluation and Outcome Sciences, 
St. Paul's Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada **CIHR Canadian HIV 
Trials Network, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; ††School of Population and 
Public Health, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, 
Canada; ‡‡VA Palo Alto Health Care System, Palo Alto, CA; §§Department of 
Medicine, Stanford University, Stanford, CA; ‖‖Duke Clinical Research Institute, 
Duke University, Durham, NC; ¶¶James J. Peters VA Medical Center, Bronx, NY; 
##Department of Medicine, Mt. Sinai School of Medicine, New York, NY; ***VA 
Cooperative Studies Program Coordinating Center, West Haven, CT; †††MRC Clinical 
Trials Unit, London, United Kingdom; ‡‡‡Nuffield Department of Medicine, 
University of Oxford, Oxford, United Kingdom; §§§The University of Ottawa at The 
Ottawa Hospital Research Institute, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada; and ‖‖‖Center for 
Primary Care and Outcomes Research and Center for Health Policy, Stanford 
University, Stanford, CA.

OBJECTIVE: Newer antiretroviral drugs provide substantial benefits but are 
expensive. The cost-effectiveness of using antiretroviral drugs in combination 
for patients with multidrug-resistant HIV disease was determined.
DESIGN: A cohort state-transition model was built representing 
treatment-experienced patients with low CD4 counts, high viral load levels, and 
multidrug-resistant virus. The effectiveness of newer drugs (those approved in 
2005 or later) was estimated from published randomized trials. Other parameters 
were estimated from a randomized trial and from the literature. The model had a 
lifetime time horizon and used the perspective of an ideal insurer in the United 
States. The interventions were combination antiretroviral therapy, consisting of 
2 newer drugs and 1 conventional drug, compared with 3 conventional drugs. 
Outcome measures were life-years, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs, 
and incremental cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: Substituting newer antiretroviral drugs increased expected survival by 
3.9 years in advanced HIV disease. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
newer, compared with conventional, antiretroviral drugs was $75,556/QALY gained. 
Sensitivity analyses showed that substituting only one newer antiretroviral drug 
cost $54,559 to $68,732/QALY, depending on assumptions about efficacy. 
Substituting 3 newer drugs cost $105,956 to $117,477/QALY. Cost-effectiveness 
ratios were higher if conventional drugs were not discontinued.
CONCLUSIONS: In treatment-experienced patients with advanced HIV disease, use of 
newer antiretroviral agents can be cost-effective, given a cost-effectiveness 
threshold in the range of $50,000 to $75,000 per QALY gained. Newer 
antiretroviral agents should be used in carefully selected patients for whom 
less expensive options are clearly inferior.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0000000000000002
PMCID: PMC3932156
PMID: 24129369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. CNS Drugs. 2013 Nov;27(11):971-88. doi: 10.1007/s40263-013-0117-3.

Glatiramer acetate: a review of its use in patients with relapsing-remitting 
multiple sclerosis and in delaying the onset of clinically definite multiple 
sclerosis.

Scott LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Adis, 41 Centorian Drive, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, North Shore, 0754, 
Auckland, New Zealand, demail@springer.com.

Glatiramer acetate (Copaxone(®)) is a synthetic analogue of the multiple 
sclerosis (MS)-associated antigen, myelin basic protein. Although its exact 
mechanisms of action in MS remain to be fully elucidated, the key mechanisms of 
action of glatiramer acetate appear to be modulation of the inflammatory 
response and neuroprotective and/or neuroregenerative effects. Subcutaneous 
glatiramer acetate is indicated for the treatment of adult patients with 
relapsing-remitting MS (RRMS) and the treatment of patients who have experienced 
a well-defined first clinical episode and have magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) 
features consistent with MS or have been determined to be at high risk of 
developing clinically definite MS (CDMS). In clinical trials in patients with 
RRMS, glatiramer acetate reduced the frequency of relapses and reduced the 
burden and activity of disease on MRI, was more effective than placebo and 
showed generally similar efficacy to subcutaneous interferon (IFN) β-1a and 
IFNβ-1b. Furthermore, the beneficial effects of glatiramer acetate were 
sustained during up to 15 years of treatment in an extension study. In patients 
with clinically isolated syndrome (CIS), glatiramer acetate significantly 
delayed the onset of CDMS compared with placebo. The drug was generally well 
tolerated in these patient populations, with injection-site reactions being the 
most commonly occurring adverse events. Therefore, glatiramer acetate remains a 
valuable first-line option in the treatment of RRMS and is an option for 
delaying the onset of CDMS in patients with CIS.

DOI: 10.1007/s40263-013-0117-3
PMID: 24129744 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2013 Nov;142(1):101-7. doi:
10.1007/s10549-013-2727-3.  Epub 2013 Oct 16.

Preference weights for chemotherapy side effects from the perspective of women 
with breast cancer.

Kuchuk I(1), Bouganim N, Beusterien K, Grinspan J, Vandermeer L, Gertler S, Dent 
SF, Song X, Segal R, Mazzarello S, Crawley F, Dranitsaris G, Clemons M.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Department of Medicine, Ottawa Hospital 
Research Institute, Ottawa General Hospital and University of Ottawa, Ottawa, 
Canada.

Perceptions among women with breast cancer about the relative importance of 
different potential chemotherapy side effects is not well understood. A survey 
was performed by women receiving chemotherapy for breast cancer. Grade I/II 
(mild to moderate) and III/IV (moderate to severe) descriptions of nine common 
chemotherapy side effects were assigned preference weights using the standard 
gamble technique. For each hypothetical side effect, patients could choose to 
stay in the respective side effect state or take a gamble between full health 
(probability p) or being dead (1 - p). For each side effect, p was varied until 
the patient was indifferent between these options. The survey also included 
questions about the importance of survival, slowing cancer growth, and quality 
of life. This analysis included 69 patients; mean age 54 years (range 35-84), 
representing all cancer stages. Standard gamble preferences were lowest (i.e., 
least preferred) for grade III/IV nausea/vomiting (0.621), indicating that 
patients would, on average, risk a 38 % chance of being dead to avoid having 
grade III/IV nausea/vomiting for the rest of their lives. The next least 
preferred side effects were grade III/IV diarrhea (0.677) and grade III/IV 
sensory neuropathy (0.694). Survival appeared more important than slowing cancer 
growth and maintaining quality of life across cancer stages. Nevertheless, 
patients with advanced disease placed less importance on survival (p = 0.09) and 
higher importance on quality of life (p = 0.05). These standard gamble utilities 
provide unique insights into chemotherapy toxicities from the patient 
perspective. Differences in the relative importance of overall survival and 
quality of life with treatment existed between patients with different stages of 
disease. These studies should be expanded as the data may also be used to 
calculate quality-adjusted life expectancy in cost-effectiveness evaluations of 
breast cancer chemotherapies.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-013-2727-3
PMID: 24129976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. Catheter Cardiovasc Interv. 2014 May 1;83(6):E183-92. doi:
10.1002/ccd.25247.  Epub 2014 Jan 13.

Percutaneous cardiac assist devices compared with surgical hemodynamic support 
alternatives: cost-effectiveness in the emergent setting.

Maini B(1), Gregory D, Scotti DJ, Buyantseva L.

Author information:
(1)PinnacleHealth, Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of percutaneous cardiac assist 
device (pVAD) therapy in the emergent setting compared with traditional surgical 
hemodynamic support alternatives.
BACKGROUND: Previous research has demonstrated the cost-effectiveness of pVAD 
hemodynamic support for patients undergoing high-risk percutaneous coronary 
intervention. For patients in cardiogenic shock (CS), use of pVAD therapy has 
been shown to reduce length of stay (LOS).
METHODS: National utilization and outcome data from the 2010-2011 MedPAR and 
state-sponsored all-payer databases were collected for patients with an acute 
myocardial infarction complicated by CS who were treated with either a pVAD 
(n = 883) or with traditional surgical hemodynamic support alternatives (ECMO 
and extracorporeal VAD) (n = 305).
RESULTS: Discharge survival was greater with pVADs than with surgical 
alternatives (56% vs. 42%, P < 0.001) and was achieved with a strong trend 
toward reduced LOS (13.2 and 17.9 days, respectively, P = 0.055) and a 
significantly lower cost of the index admission ($90,929 and $144,257, 
respectively, P < 0.001). Cost-effectiveness analysis based on the national data 
demonstrated that pVAD achieved improved outcomes at lower cost. Data were also 
collected for similar patients who underwent protocol-guided pVAD therapy (using 
Impella 2.5) at PinnacleHealth, between 2009 and 2011 (n = 30). At this site, 
the survival rate increased to 60%, length of hospitalization was shortened to 6 
days, and admission costs were lowered to $53,850 relative to the surgical 
alternatives strategy.
CONCLUSIONS: For patients in CS requiring emergent hemodynamic support, pVAD 
therapy offers a less invasive alternative that can be deployed sooner, 
resulting in better outcomes, shorter LOS, lower costs and with no incremental 
cost, and a survival benefit when compared with traditional surgical hemodynamic 
support alternatives. PVAD therapy (and Impella 2.5 in particular) is emerging 
as a dominant strategy for this challenging patient population.

Copyright © 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ccd.25247
PMID: 24130115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Nephrology (Carlton). 2013 Dec;18(12):783-9. doi: 10.1111/nep.12170.

Anti-coagulation, anti-platelets or no therapy in haemodialysis patients with 
atrial fibrillation: A decision analysis.

Wyld ML(1), Clayton PA, Morton RL, Chadban SJ.

Author information:
(1)Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia; Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

BACKGROUND: Optimal treatment of atrial fibrillation (AF) in the haemodialysis 
population is uncertain due to the exclusion of this group from randomized 
trials. The risk-benefit profile for anticoagulation and anti-platelet therapy 
in haemodialysis differs from the general population due to platelet dysfunction 
from uraemia, altered pharmacokinetics and increased falls risk.
METHODS: This decision analysis used a Markov-state transition model that took a 
patient perspective over a 5 year timeframe. The Markov model compared 
life-years gained and quality-adjusted life-years gained (QALY) for three AF 
treatment strategies: warfarin, aspirin and no treatment. The base case was a 
70-year-old man on haemodialysis with non-valvular AF.
RESULTS: In the base case, the total health outcomes in life-years and QALY were 
2.37 and 1.47 respectively for warfarin, 2.38 and 1.61 respectively for aspirin, 
and 2.39 and 1.61 respectively for no treatment. Thus, warfarin led to 0.14 
fewer QALY or 1.7 fewer months of life lived in full health, compared with 
either aspirin or no therapy. The finding that warfarin generated the lowest 
expected QALY was robust to one-way, two-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that warfarin should not be the default choice 
for older haemodialysis patients with non-valvular AF as it provides the fewest 
QALY compared with aspirin or no therapy.

© 2013 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1111/nep.12170
PMID: 24131403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2013 Oct 16;95(20):e150. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.L.01122.

Long-term outcome following carpal wedge osteotomy in the arthrogrypotic 
patient.

Foy CA(1), Mills J, Wheeler L, Ezaki M, Oishi SN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Medical Sciences Campus, University of 
Puerto Rico, P.O. Box 365067, San Juan, PR 00936-5067.

BACKGROUND: Wrist flexion and ulnar deviation deformity is a common presentation 
in children with amyoplasia congenita. Multiple surgical procedures have been 
reported to correct the deformity to enhance functional independence and improve 
quality of life. We performed a retrospective review to detail our long-term 
results with carpal wedge osteotomy in these patients.
METHODS: Medical records of all patients with the amyoplasia form of 
arthrogryposis who underwent carpal wedge osteotomy between 1994 and 2008 were 
reviewed. Patients with a follow-up of two years or less were excluded. 
Preoperative and postoperative resting position and range of motion of the wrist 
were recorded. Interviews and questionnaires were completed to assess the mean 
overall satisfaction level of the parent or guardian with the outcome of 
surgery, function, and task completion with use of parent-guardian surveys, the 
Manual Ability Classification System, and the ABILHAND-Kids measure of manual 
ability.
RESULTS: Seventy-five wrists in forty-six patients who met the inclusion 
criteria were reviewed. The average age of the patients at the time of surgery 
was 4.3 years (range, nine months to eighteen years; median, 2.7 years). The 
average duration of follow-up was 5.7 years (range, two to 10.3 years; median, 
5.3 years). The average resting position of the wrist postoperatively (11° of 
flexion) was significantly different from that measured preoperatively (55° of 
flexion) (p < 0.001). The arc of wrist motion measured preoperatively (32°) did 
not differ significantly from that measured postoperatively (22°) (p = 0.4903). 
The location of the motion arc was significantly improved to a more functional 
position. The average active extension of the wrist changed from -37° of 
extension preoperatively to -11° of extension postoperatively (p < 0.001). 
Active wrist flexion also significantly changed from 69° preoperatively to 33° 
postoperatively (p < 0.001). Parent-guardian surveys indicated that the mean 
overall satisfaction score after surgery was 9.1 of 10 possible points and that 
the mean ranking for task completion in activities of daily living was 4 (easier 
following surgery).
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term outcomes reveal that surgical correction of wrist flexion 
posture in children with amyoplasia congenita results in improvement that is 
sustained over time. The surveys and questionnaires completed by parents or 
guardians indicated that they were satisfied with the results of the operation.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.L.01122
PMID: 24132365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Diabetes Ther. 2013 Dec;4(2):417-30. doi: 10.1007/s13300-013-0044-9. Epub
2013  Oct 17.

Incretin therapy for type 2 diabetes in Spain: a cost-effectiveness analysis of 
liraglutide versus sitagliptin.

Mezquita Raya P(1), Pérez A, Ramírez de Arellano A, Briones T, Hunt B, Valentine 
WJ.

Author information:
(1)Clinica San Pedro, Hospital Torrecardenas, Almería, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: Treatment with glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonists and 
dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors, which target the incretin axis, has the 
potential to improve glycemic control in type 2 diabetes patients without the 
weight gain associated with traditional therapies. To evaluate the relative 
cost-effectiveness of incretin therapies, the present study aimed to compare the 
long-term clinical and cost implications associated with liraglutide and 
sitagliptin in type 2 diabetes patients in Spain.
METHODS: Data were taken from a randomized, controlled trial (NCT00700817) in 
which adults with type 2 diabetes failing metformin monotherapy were randomly 
allocated to receive either liraglutide 1.2 mg or sitagliptin 100 mg daily in 
addition to metformin. Long-term projections of clinical outcomes and direct 
costs (2012 EUR) based on observed treatment effects were made using a published 
and validated type 2 diabetes model. Costs were taken from published sources. 
Future costs and clinical benefits were discounted at 3% annually. Sensitivity 
analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Liraglutide was associated with improved discounted life expectancy 
(14.05 versus 13.91 years) and quality-adjusted life expectancy [9.04 versus 
8.87 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs)] compared to sitagliptin. Improved 
clinical outcomes were driven by improved glycemic control, leading to reduced 
incidence of diabetes-related complications, including renal disease, 
cardiovascular disease, ophthalmic and diabetic foot complications. Liraglutide 
was associated with increased direct costs of EUR 2,297, yielding an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of EUR 13,266 per QALY gained versus sitagliptin.
CONCLUSIONS: Liraglutide was projected to improve life expectancy, 
quality-adjusted life expectancy and reduce incidence of diabetes-related 
complication. Liraglutide is likely to be cost-effective versus sitagliptin from 
a healthcare payer perspective in Spain.

DOI: 10.1007/s13300-013-0044-9
PMCID: PMC3889333
PMID: 24132613


305. Zentralbl Chir. 2014 Aug;139(4):460-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1328623. Epub
2013  Oct 16.

[Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) in the course of time - an issue only for 
the internist?].

[Article in German]

Weis S(1), John E(2), Lippmann N(3), Mössner J(1), Lübbert C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department für Innere Medizin, Neurologie und Dermatologie, Klinik für 
Gastroenterologie und Rheumatologie, Universität Leipzig, Leipzig, Deutschland.
(2)Chirurgie, Martin-Luther-Universität Halle-Wittenberg, Halle/Saale, 
Deutschland.
(3)Institut für Medizinische Mikrobiologie, Universität Leipzig, Leipzig, 
Deutschland.

BACKGROUND: Toxigenic strains of Clostridium (C.) difficile are the most 
prevalent pathogens of antibiotic associated intestinal disease and nosocomial 
diarrhoea. During the last 10 years, incidences of C. difficile infection (CDI) 
have increased worldwide.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: With clinical and microbiological original data for 
2002-2012 from the University Hospitals Leipzig and Halle (Saale), Germany, the 
authors illustrate the current situation regarding CDI in the states of Saxony 
and Saxony-Anhalt and exemplify the latest developments in terms of incidence, 
prevalence of resistance, diagnosis and treatment strategies regarding CDI with 
an emphasis on surgical options.
RESULTS: Following the general trend, at the University Hospitals of Leipzig and 
Halle (Saale) there was also an increase in incidence of CDI, especially of 
severe clinical courses. In primary and secondary care facilities, prevention of 
CDI is based on hygiene management and restricted usage of antibiotics, 
preferably as "Antibiotic Stewardship" programmes. In 2012, the new macrocyclic 
antibiotic Fidaxomicin was approved in the European Union for the treatment of 
CDI. The therapeutic armamentarium, previously based on metronidazole or 
vancomycin, has now been enriched by a substance that presumably will reduce the 
rate of recurrence of CDI. Moreover, early data from case series and controlled 
trials suggest that the re-establishment of eubiosis in the colon of patients 
with recurrent CDI by stool transplantation from healthy donors is an 
alternative to antibiotics. Standard surgical intervention for refractory CDI is 
subtotal colectomy with terminal ileostomy. In patients with adequate life 
expectancy and without organ dysfunction, a colon-saving surgical technique 
should be considered.
CONCLUSION: Taking antibiotics for most remains the main risk factor for 
suffering from symptomatic CDI. With the introduction of Fidaxomicin there is 
hope for an improvement in the conservative treatment of CDI. Stool transplants 
from healthy donors are now considered to be better than giving antibiotics for 
severe CDI, but this treatment has not found broad acceptance yet. In cases with 
a lack of early treatment success, the surgeon must be consulted. Here, the 
evidence for preferably colon-saving surgical procedures is so far unfortunately 
low.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1328623
PMID: 24132675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Cancer. 2014 Jan 1;120(1):112-25. doi: 10.1002/cncr.28339. Epub 2013 Oct 16.

Barriers to effective treatment of pediatric solid tumors in middle-income 
countries: can we make sense of the spectrum of nonbiologic factors that 
influence outcomes?

Friedrich P(1), Ortiz R, Fuentes S, Gamboa Y, Ah Chu-Sanchez MS, Arambú IC, 
Montero M, Báez F, Rodríguez-Galindo C, Antillón-Klussmann F; Central American 
Association of Pediatric Hematologists and Oncologists (AHOPCA).

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Oncology, Dana-Farber/Boston Children's Cancer and Blood Disorders 
Center, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: The delivery of effective treatment for pediatric solid tumors poses 
a particular challenge to centers in middle-income countries (MICs) that already 
are vigorously addressing pediatric cancer. The objective of this study was to 
improve the current understanding of barriers to effective treatment of 
pediatric solid tumors in MICs.
METHODS: An ecologic model centered on pediatric sarcoma and expanded to country 
as the environment was used as a benchmark for studying the delivery of solid 
tumor care in MICs. Data on resources were gathered from 7 centers that were 
members of the Central American Association of Pediatric Hematologists and 
Oncologists (AHOPCA) using an infrastructure assessment tool. Pediatric sarcoma 
outcomes data were available, were retrieved from hospital-based cancer 
registries for 6 of the 7 centers, and were analyzed by country. Patients who 
were diagnosed from January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2009 with osteosarcoma, 
Ewing sarcoma, rhabdomyosarcoma, and other soft tissue sarcomas were included in 
the analysis. To explore correlations between resources and outcomes, a pilot 
performance index was created.
RESULTS: The analyses identified specific deficits in human resources, 
communication, quality, and infrastructure. The treatment abandonment rate, the 
proportion of metastatic disease at diagnosis, the relapse rate, and the 4-year 
abandonment-sensitive overall survival (AOS) rate varied considerably by 
country, ranging from 1% to 38%, from 15% to 54%, from 24% to 52%, and from 21% 
to 51%, respectively. The treatment abandonment rate correlated inversely with 
health economic expenditure per capita (r = -0.86; P = .03) and life expectancy 
at birth (r = -0.93; P = .007). The 4-year AOS rate correlated inversely with 
the mortality rate among children aged <5 years (r = -0.80; P = 0.05) and 
correlated directly with the pilot performance index (r = 0.98; P = 0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: Initiatives to improve the effectiveness of treatment for pediatric 
solid tumors in MICs are warranted, particularly for pediatric sarcomas. 
Building capacity and infrastructure, improving supportive care and 
communication, and fostering comprehensive, multidisciplinary teams are 
identified as keystones in Central America. A measure that meaningfully 
describes performance in delivering pediatric cancer care is feasible and needed 
to advance comparative, prospective analysis of pediatric cancer care and to 
define resource clusters internationally.

© 2013 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28339
PMCID: PMC3934757
PMID: 24132910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. J Exp Zool A Ecol Genet Physiol. 2014 Jan;321(1):48-56. doi:
10.1002/jez.1836.  Epub 2013 Oct 16.

Resveratrol and food effects on lifespan and reproduction in the model 
crustacean Daphnia.

Kim E(1), Ansell CM, Dudycha JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences, University of South Carolina, Columbia, 
South Carolina.

Longevity is a highly variable life history trait and its variation is 
attributable to both genetic and environmental factors. Exploring well-known 
environmental factors in a new model system is a useful approach to explore 
taxonomic variation in plasticity of longevity. We examined responsiveness of 
the Daphnia pulex clone TCO to potentially related interventions that have been 
reported to extend lifespan: resveratrol and dietary restriction. First, we 
examined effects of resveratrol on lifespan and fecundity in TCO which were 
grown at moderate (12K cells Ankistrodesmus falcatus mL⁻¹) and high (20K cells 
A. falcatus mL⁻¹) food levels. We found no evidence for lifespan extension by 
resveratrol, but found a reduction of lifetime fecundity. The effect of 
resveratrol on fecundity was more pronounced early in life. We then conducted an 
additional life table to test the effect of dietary restriction on TCO. 
Surprisingly, reduced food level did not extend the lifespan of TCO, which 
contrasts with previous studies in D. pulex. Our results suggest that variation 
in the response to dietary restriction might be more common than previously 
thought. If resveratrol activates genes involved in the response to dietary 
restriction, genetic polymorphisms in dietary restriction will influence 
responses to resveratrol. Thus, this experiment suggests that careful 
re-examination of resveratrol effects using diverse genotypes is required.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jez.1836
PMCID: PMC4103430
PMID: 24133070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Protein Eng Des Sel. 2013 Nov;26(11):743-53. doi: 10.1093/protein/gzt048.
Epub  2013 Oct 16.

Extension of in vivo half-life of biologically active peptides via chemical 
conjugation to XTEN protein polymer.

Podust VN(1), Sim BC, Kothari D, Henthorn L, Gu C, Wang CW, McLaughlin B, 
Schellenberger V.

Author information:
(1)Amunix Operating Inc., 500 Ellis Street, Mountain View, CA 94043, USA.

XTEN, unstructured biodegradable proteins, have been used to extend the in vivo 
half-life of genetically fused therapeutic proteins and peptides. To expand the 
applications of XTEN technology to half-life extension of other classes of 
molecules, XTEN protein polymers and methods for chemical XTENylation were 
developed. Two XTEN precursors were engineered to contain enzymatically 
removable purification tags. The proteins were readily expressed in bacteria and 
purified to homogeneity by chromatography techniques. As proof-of-principle, 
GLP2-2G peptide was chemically conjugated to each of the two XTEN protein 
polymers using maleimide-thiol chemistry. The monodisperse nature of XTEN 
protein polymer enabled reaction monitoring as well as the detection of peptide 
modifications in the conjugated state using reverse phase-high performance 
liquid chromatography (RP-HPLC) and electrospray ionization mass spectrometry. 
The resulting GLP2-2G-XTEN conjugates were purified by preparative RP-HPLC to 
homogeneity. In comparison with recombinantly fused GLP2-2G-XTEN, chemically 
conjugated GLP2-2G-XTEN molecules exhibited comparable in vitro activity, in 
vitro plasma stability and pharmacokinetics in rats. These data suggest that 
chemical XTENylation could effectively extend the half-life of a wide spectrum 
of biologically active molecules, therefore broadening its applicability.

DOI: 10.1093/protein/gzt048
PMID: 24133142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Indian J Orthop. 2013 Sep;47(5):459-68. doi: 10.4103/0019-5413.118201.

Outcome of unicompartmental knee arthroplasty in octogenarians with 
tricompartmental osteoarthritis: A longer followup of previously published 
report.

Marya SK(1), Thukral R.

Author information:
(1)Max Institute of Orthopedics and Joint Replacement, Max Super Specialty 
Hospital, 1, Press Enclave Road, Saket, New Delhi, India.

BACKGROUND: Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty (UKA) has specific indications, 
producing excellent results. It, however, has a limited lifespan and needs 
eventual conversion to total knee arthroplasty (TKA). It is, therefore, a 
temporizing procedure in select active young patients with advanced 
unicompartmental osteoarthritis (UCOA). Being a less morbid procedure it is 
suggested as an alternative in the very elderly patients with tricompartmental 
osteoarthritis (TCOA). We performed UKA in a series of 45 octogenarians with 
TCOA predominant medial compartment osteoarthritis (MCOA) and analyzed the 
results.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Forty five octogenarian patients with TCOA predominant 
MCOA underwent UKA (19 bilateral) from January 2002 to January 2012. All had 
similar preoperative work-up, surgical approach, procedure, implants and 
postoperative protocol. Clinicoradiological assessment was done at 3-monthly 
intervals for the first year, then yearly till the last followup (average 72 
months, range 8-128 months). Results were evaluated using the knee society 
scores (KSS), satisfaction index [using the visual analogue scale (VAS)] and 
orthogonal radiographs (for loosening, subsidence, lysis or implant wear). 
Resurgery for any cause was considered failure.
RESULTS: Four patients (six knees) died due to medical conditions, two patients 
(three knees) were lost to followup, and these were excluded from the final 
analysis. Barring two failures, all the remaining patients were pain-free and 
performing well at the final followup. Indications for resurgery were: medial 
femoral condyle fracture needing fixation subsequent conversion to TKA at 2 
years (n=1) and progression of arthritis and pain leading to revision TKA at 6 
years (n=1).
CONCLUSION: UKA has shown successful outcomes with regards to pain relief and 
function with 96.4% implant survival and 94.9% good or excellent outcomes. Due 
to lower demands, early rehabilitation, less morbidity, and relative short life 
expectancy, UKA can successfully manage TCOA in the octogenarians.

DOI: 10.4103/0019-5413.118201
PMCID: PMC3796918
PMID: 24133305

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None.


310. Rev Bras Cir Cardiovasc. 2013 Jun;28(2):302.

About health and disease.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

Collaço J.

PMID: 24133682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Med Confl Surviv. 2013 Jul-Sep;29(3):244-66. doi:
10.1080/13623699.2013.815436.

Injured and disabled casualties of the Northern Ireland conflict: issues in 
immediate and long-term treatment, care and support.

Breen-Smyth M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Politics, University of Surrey, Guildford, UK. 
m.breen-smyth@surrey.ac.uk

Even though injury due to armed conflict is more commonly caused than death, 
research into injury due to Northern Ireland's four decades of otherwise 
exhaustively documented conflict is sparse. This article reports on a 2011 study 
based on interviews with 30 people seriously physically injured in the conflict 
and 20 of their carers and a self-administered questionnaire survey of a further 
90 people injured in political violence in Northern Ireland. All injured 
respondents reported that emergency medical emergency treatment had been 
excellent. Those injured in the 1970s reported low expectations of their life 
expectancy and rehabilitation, a lack of psychological support and lack of help 
with chronic injury-related conditions. More recently injured people had 
psychological support and were more successfully rehabilitated but those injured 
earlier often saw it as 'too late' for psychological help. Influences on 
well-being seem to be: changing professional standards and awareness; policies 
acknowledging of the effects of conflict; anti-discrimination legislation; 
development of rehabilitation services; and the reform of disability benefits. 
Inter alia, health professionals' attitudes towards victims and their treatment 
of injury appear to have a significant influence on outcomes for injured people.

DOI: 10.1080/13623699.2013.815436
PMID: 24133932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Prosthet Orthot Int. 2014 Dec;38(6):447-55. doi: 10.1177/0309364613506912.
Epub  2013 Oct 17.

Impact of a stance phase microprocessor-controlled knee prosthesis on level 
walking in lower functioning individuals with a transfemoral amputation.

Eberly VJ(1), Mulroy SJ(2), Gronley JK(2), Perry J(2), Yule WJ(3), Burnfield 
JM(4).

Author information:
(1)Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center, Downey, CA, USA 
veberly@dhs.lacounty.gov.
(2)Rancho Los Amigos National Rehabilitation Center, Downey, CA, USA.
(3)Hanger Prosthetics and Orthotics, Phoenix, AZ, USA.
(4)Madonna Rehabilitation Hospital, Lincoln, NE, USA.

BACKGROUND: For individuals with transfemoral amputation, walking with a 
prosthesis presents challenges to stability and increases the demand on the hip 
of the prosthetic limb. Increasing age or comorbidities magnify these 
challenges. Computerized prosthetic knee joints improve stability and efficiency 
of gait, but are seldom prescribed for less physically capable walkers who may 
benefit from them.
OBJECTIVE: To compare level walking function while wearing a 
microprocessor-controlled knee (C-Leg Compact) prosthesis to a traditionally 
prescribed non-microprocessor-controlled knee prosthesis for Medicare Functional 
Classification Level K-2 walkers.
STUDY DESIGN: Crossover.
METHODS: Stride characteristics, kinematics, kinetics, and electromyographic 
activity were recorded in 10 participants while walking with 
non-microprocessor-controlled knee and Compact prostheses.
RESULTS: Walking with the Compact produced significant increase in velocity, 
cadence, stride length, single-limb support, and heel-rise timing compared to 
walking with the non-microprocessor-controlled knee prosthesis. Hip and thigh 
extension during late stance improved bilaterally. Ankle dorsiflexion, knee 
extension, and hip flexion moments of the prosthetic limb were significantly 
improved.
CONCLUSIONS: Improvements in walking function and stability on the prosthetic 
limb were demonstrated by the K-2 level walkers when using the C-Leg Compact 
prosthesis.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: Understanding the impact of new prosthetic designs on gait 
mechanics is essential to improve prescription guidelines for deconditioned or 
older persons with transfemoral amputation. Prosthetic designs that improve 
stability for safety and walking function have the potential to improve 
community participation and quality of life.

© The International Society for Prosthetics and Orthotics 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0309364613506912
PMID: 24135259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Diabetes Care. 2013 Dec;36(12):3992-8. doi: 10.2337/dc13-0497. Epub 2013 Oct
17.

Cost-effectiveness of alternative thresholds of the fasting plasma glucose test 
to identify the target population for type 2 diabetes prevention in adults aged 
≥45 years.

Zhuo X(1), Zhang P, Kahn HS, Gregg EW.

Author information:
(1)Corresponding author: Xiaohui Zhuo, xzhuo@cdc.gov.

OBJECTIVE: The study objective was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
alternative fasting plasma glucose (FPG) thresholds to identify adults at high 
risk for type 2 diabetes for diabetes preventive intervention.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We used a validated simulation model to examine the 
change in lifetime quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and medical costs when 
the FPG threshold was progressively lowered in 5-mg/dL decrements from 120 to 90 
mg/dL. The study sample includes nondiabetic adults aged ≥45 years in the United 
States using 2006-2010 data from the National Health and Nutrition Examination 
Survey. High-risk individuals were assumed to receive a lifestyle intervention, 
as that used in the Diabetes Prevention Program. We calculated cost per QALY by 
dividing the incremental cost by incremental QALY when lowering the threshold to 
the next consecutive level. Medical costs were assessed from a health care 
system perspective. We conducted univariate and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses to assess the robustness of the results using different simulation 
scenarios and parameters.
RESULTS: Progressively lowering the FPG threshold would monotonically increase 
QALYs, cost, and cost per QALY. Reducing (in 5-mg/dL decrements) the threshold 
from 120 to 90 mg/dL cost $30,100, $32,900, $42,300, $60,700, $81,800, and 
$115,800 per QALY gained, respectively. The costs per QALY gained were lower for 
all thresholds under a lower-cost and less-effective intervention scenario.
CONCLUSIONS: Lowering the FPG threshold leads to a greater health benefit of 
diabetes prevention but reduces the cost-effectiveness. Using the conventional 
benchmark of $50,000 per QALY, a threshold of 105 mg/dL or higher would be cost 
effective. A lower threshold could be selected if the intervention cost could be 
lowered.

DOI: 10.2337/dc13-0497
PMCID: PMC3836092
PMID: 24135386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2013 Nov;35(8):623-7. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0000000000000040.

The efficacy of vitamin K2 and calcitriol combination on thalassemic osteopathy.

Ozdemir MA(1), Yilmaz K, Abdulrezzak U, Muhtaroglu S, Patiroglu T, Karakukcu M, 
Unal E.

Author information:
(1)Departments of *Pediatrics, Division of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology 
†Nuclear Medicine ‡Biochemistry, Faculty of Medicine, Erciyes University, 
Kayseri, Turkey.

Thalassemic osteopathy (TOSP) has emerged as a topic of interest, as the 
optimized transfusion regimens and iron chelations has markedly improved the 
survival of the patients suffering from thalassemia major (TM) and increased the 
life expectancy. The aim of this prospective monocentric pilot study was to 
investigate the effects of a dietary supplement with vitamin K2 (50 mcg 
menaquinone-7) and vitamin D (5 mcg calcitriol) on the patients with TOSP. 
Twenty children (12 girls, 8 boys; age varied from 3 to 18 y) with β TM, who 
underwent regular blood transfusion and iron chelation therapy, were enrolled in 
this study and investigated at the initial, sixth, and 12th month of the 
treatment. We detected a significant improvement in the bone mineral density and 
Z-score at the lumbar spine area of the patients at the sixth and 12th month of 
the treatment, especially in the prepubertal group. We also found a decrease in 
the ratio of undercarboxylated osteocalcin to carboxylated osteocalcin, however, 
this was not found to be significant. Although the natural course of TOSP is 
worsening or at least stabilizing, our pilot study demonstrated that vitamin K2 
and calcitriol combination clearly has a positive effect on the bone mineral 
density of the children with TM during a 1-year period. Supplementation of 
menaquinone-7 instead of drugs is an augmented physiological intake and seems a 
beneficial alternative for the treatment of TOSP. Further studies on a large 
number of participants are necessary to highlight the effect of vitamin K2 on 
TOSP.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0000000000000040
PMID: 24136015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Thromb Haemost. 2014 Jan;111(1):103-10. doi: 10.1160/TH13-07-0557. Epub 2013
Oct  17.

Universal versus platelet reactivity assay-driven use of P2Y12 inhibitors in 
acute coronary syndrome patients: cost-effectiveness analyses for six European 
perspectives.

Coleman CI(1), Limone BL.

Author information:
(1)Craig I. Coleman, PharmD, Professor, University of Connecticut, Hartford 
Hospital/University of Connecticut, Evidence-Based Practice Center, 80 Seymour 
Street, Hartford, CT 06102-5037, USA, Tel.: +1 860 545 2096, Fax: +1 860 545 
2277, E-mail: craig.colema@hhchealth.org.

Platelet reactivity assays (PRAs) can predict patients' likely response to 
clopidogrel. As ticagrelor and prasugrel are typically considered first-line 
agents for acute coronary syndrome in Europe, we assessed the cost-effectiveness 
of universal compared to PRA-driven selection of these agents. A Markov model 
was used to calculate five-year costs (2013£/€), quality-adjusted life-years and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for one-year of universal 
ticagrelor or prasugrel (given to all) compared to each agents' corresponding 
PRA-driven strategy (ticagrelor/prasugrel in those with high platelet reactivity 
[HPR, >208 on the VerifyNow P2Y12 assay], others given generic clopidogrel). We 
assumed patients had their index event at 65-70 years of age and had a 42.7% 
incidence of HPR 24-48 hours post-revascularisation. The analysis was conducted 
from the perspective of six countries (France, Germany, Italy, Spain, the 
Netherlands and United Kingdom) and used a one-year cycle length. Event data for 
P2Y12 inhibitors were taken from multinational randomised trials and adjusted 
using country-specific epidemiologic data. Neither universal ticagrelor nor 
prasugrel were found to be cost-effective (all ICERs >40,250€ or £36,600/QALY) 
compared to their corresponding PRA-driven strategies in any of the countries 
evaluated. Results were sensitive to differences in P2Y12 Inhibitors costs and 
drug-specific relative risks of major adverse cardiac events. Monte Carlo 
simulation suggested universal ticagrelor or prasugrel were cost-effective in 
only 25-44% and 11-17% of 10,000 iterations compared to their respective 
PRA-driven strategies, when applying a willingness-to-pay threshold = €30,000 or 
£20,000/QALY. In conclusion, the universal use of newer P2Y12 inhibitors is not 
likely cost-effective compared to PRA-driven strategies.

DOI: 10.1160/TH13-07-0557
PMID: 24136466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. BMJ. 2013 Oct 17;347:f6295. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f6295.

Health activists attack Indian compensation formula for deaths attributed to 
clinical trials.

Mudur G(1).

Author information:
(1)New Delhi.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f6295
PMID: 24136639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. Versicherungsmedizin. 2013 Sep 1;65(3):165-6.

[Increase in life expectancy in HIV infection].

[Article in German]

[No authors listed]

PMID: 24137903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Pflege Z. 2013 Sep;66(9):540-4.

[Incontinence--a common issue for people with Parkinson's disease. A systematic 
literature review].

[Article in German]

Siegl E(1), Lassen B, Saxer S.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Angewandte Pflegewissenschaft an der FHS St. Gallen.

Parkinson's disease is among the most common neurological diseases. About 4.1 
million people are attected worldwide. The course of Parkinson's disease is 
chronically progressive. With L-Dopa therapy the life expectancy of people being 
affected by Parkinon's disease is not shortened compared with people who are not 
affected. Therefore people with Parkinson's disease often suffer from the 
serious effects for decades which include motor symptoms as well as vegetative 
disturbance, which concerns bladder function and functions of the 
gastrointestinal tract. Urinary and fecal incontinence involve severe impairment 
of quality of life. In this review the occurence of urinary and fecal 
incontinence should be determined in order to be able to describe its extent. 
There are different measures for treatment or improvement. These are reviewed 
based on the following research question: Which effects do interventions have in 
improving urinary and fecal incontinence in persons with Parkinson's disease 
compared to usual care? In order to answer the questions a systematic review was 
conducted. The literature search occured in the electronic databases Cochrane 
database, PubMed and CINAHL. Three studies investigating the prevalence with a 
total sample size of n = 1077 and for the evaluation of interventions four 
studies with a total sample size of n = 48 have been included. 25 percent of the 
women with Parkinson's disease suffer from urgency incontinence compared to 
seven percent of the women without Parkinson's disease (p < 0.01). Among men 
with Parkison's disease 28 percent are affected and six percent among men 
without Parkinson's disease (p < 0.01). In respect to stress and fecal 
incontinence there were no significant differences between people affected and 
people not affected by Parkinson's disease. With pelvic floor muscle exercises 
and accompanying measures as well as with injections of botulinum toxin A a 
reduction of urinary incontinence seems to be possible. Due to methodological 
insufficiency of these studies, no clear recommendations can be given.

PMID: 24137917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Ter Arkh. 2013;85(7):4-9.

[Therapeutic strategy for chronic myeloid leukemia: possibilities and 
prospects].

[Article in Russian]

Turkina AG, Chelysheva EIu.

Over the past decade the clinical introduction of agents that directionally 
blocks the activity of BCR-ABL tumor tyrosine kinase (TK) has changed the 
prognosis of chronic myeloid leukemia. A significant malignant Ph'-positive 
clone inhibition and durable remissions have made it possible to increase 
overall and relapse-free survival. Due to their higher life expectancy, the 
number of patients is on the increase and their quality of life and working 
capacity remain good. According to the All-Russian Register of Chronic Myeloid 
Leukemia, there were more than 6500 cases in the Russian Federation in 2012. Of 
them, 93.1% were diagnosed with the chronic phase of the disease, 6.4 and 0.4% 
with its accelerated phase and blast crisis, respectively. Among the BCR-ABL TK 
inhibitors (TKI) registered in the Russian Federation and recommended for the 
treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia, there are 3 medications: imatinib, 
nilotinib, and dasatinib. The efficiency and safety of TKI therapy have been 
well studied. The most important principle of treatment is to permanently affect 
the Ph'-positive tumor cell clone by the long-term daily use of TKls. Regular 
cytogenetic and molecular genetic monitoring allows adequate estimation of the 
leukemic clone volume and it is essential in evaluating the therapeutic 
effectiveness. To choose a TKI for each specific patient with regard for its 
best tolerability and maximum efficiency permits individualized treatment. The 
prospect of therapy discontinuation can be discussed only in individual patients 
with a durable and stable complete molecular response and only within clinical 
trials.

PMID: 24137941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Med J Aust. 2013 Oct 21;199(8):534-5. doi: 10.5694/mja13.11064.

Removing the GST exemption for fresh fruits and vegetables could cost lives.

Veerman JL(1), Cobiac LJ.

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD, 
Australia. l.veerman@uq.edu.au.

DOI: 10.5694/mja13.11064
PMID: 24138373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2013 Oct;11(10):1321-36. doi: 
10.1586/14779072.2013.840136.

Comparative effectiveness of revascularization strategies in stable ischemic 
heart disease: current perspective and literature review.

Fanari Z(1), A Weiss S, Weintraub WS.

Author information:
(1)Christiana Care Health System, Newark, DE, USA.

Percutaneous coronary intervention (PCI) and coronary artery bypass grafting 
(CABG) are established strategies for coronary revascularization in the setting 
of ischemic heart disease. Multiple randomized controlled trials and 
observational studies have compared the impact of the two modalities on the 
patients' quality of life, mortality and morbidity, as well as the 
cost-effectiveness of these modalities in different clinical setting. CABG is 
the preferred strategy for revascularizations in patients with multi-vessel 
disease, especially in those with higher risk secondary to associated diabetes, 
left ventricular dysfunction or more complex lesions. PCI is a reasonable 
revascularization modality in patients with ischemia and single or low-risk 
multi-vessel disease and those with unprotected left main with low complexity 
anatomy. Compared with PCI, CABG is associated with less repeat 
revascularization, better quality of life and improved survival in high-risk 
patients. Although CABG is associated with higher cost, it is probably 
associated with a reasonable cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained in many 
patients. Therefore, CABG will often be a cost-effective strategy, especially in 
patients with high angiographic complexity and/or diabetes.

DOI: 10.1586/14779072.2013.840136
PMID: 24138520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. BMC Geriatr. 2013 Oct 18;13:109. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-13-109.

Fracture risk assessment in long-term care: a survey of long-term care 
physicians.

Wall M(1), Lohfeld L, Giangregorio L, Ioannidis G, Kennedy CC, Moser A, 
Papaioannou A, Morin SN.

Author information:
(1)McGill University Health Center Research Institute, Montreal, Canada. 
michelle.wall@mail.mcgill.ca.

