mechanical design.

Olivier J, Bouri M, Ortlieb A, Bleuler H, Clavel R.

With the increase of life expectancy, a higher number of elderly need assistance 
to maintain their mobility and their independance. The hip joint is crucial for 
walking and is problematic for a large number of aged people. In this paper we 
present a novel design of a motorized hip orthosis to assist elderly people 
while walking, stair climbing and during the sit-to-stand transistions. The 
kinematics was developed based on biomechanics considerations. To be able to 
achieve a large assistance rate, velocity and torques of the hip joint were 
studied from the literature. In order to fit with these requirements, an 
amplification mechanism inspired by excavators was developed and implemented. 
Comfort considerations were also taken into account and a custom interface was 
designed with the collaboration of a professional orthopaedic technician. First 
tests with the prototype showed that the workspace is sufficient for walking, 
for stair climbing as well as for sit-to-stand transitions. The assistance rate 
can go up to 30% for a 70 kg subject during walking at a cadence of 100 
steps/min. The comfort is guaranteed despite the important weight (4.3 kg) of 
this first prototype.

DOI: 10.1109/ICORR.2013.6650495
PMID: 24187310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


443. Clin Interv Aging. 2013;8:1451-9. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S48447. Epub 2013 Oct 25.

Muscular strength measurements indicate bone mineral density loss in 
postmenopausal women.

Zhou Z(1), Zheng L, Wei D, Ye M, Li X.

Author information:
(1)School of Physical Education and Coaching Science, Capital University of 
Physical Education and Sports, Beijing, People's Republic of China ; Graduate 
School, Beijing Sport University, Beijing, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: The literature is inconsistent and inconclusive on the relationship 
between bone mineral density (BMD) and muscular strength in postmenopausal 
women.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the relationship between isokinetically and isometrically 
determined muscle strength and BMD in postmenopausal women of different age 
groups.
METHODS: Healthy postmenopausal women (n = 293; mean age, 54.22 ± 3.85 years) 
were enrolled in this study. They were grouped by age according to World Health 
Organization life expectancy: 45-50 years, 51-53 years, 54-56 years, 57-59 
years, and 60-64 years. Total BMD, L2-4 BMD, and femoral neck BMD were measured 
by dual-energy X-ray bone densitometry; isokinetic and isometric muscle strength 
of the right hip and trunk muscles were measured during contractile exercise. 
Stepwise regression analysis was used to examine the relationships between BMD 
and strength measures, controlling for subject age and years since menopause.
RESULTS: Results of stepwise regression showed that hip extensor and flexor 
strength at 120°/second and back extend strength at 30°/second accounted for 26% 
total BMD variance among menopausal subjects, 19% L2-4 BMD variance, and 15% 
femoral neck BMD variance; in postmenopausal women of different age groups, hip 
extensor and flexor strength at 120°/second and back extend strength at 
30°/second accounted for 25%-35% total BMD variance.
CONCLUSION: Different optimal strength measurements were identified for 
different age groups. Age-appropriate testing mode can improve detection of 
osteoporotic fracture risk in early menopause by determining muscular strength 
reduction related to BMD loss. This may enable early initiation of preventative 
therapies.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S48447
PMCID: PMC3810326
PMID: 24187494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. Acta Cardiol. 2013 Aug;68(4):349-53. doi: 10.1080/ac.68.4.2988887.

Elective reconstruction of the ascending aorta for aneurysmal disease restores 
normal life expectancy. An analysis of risk factors for early and late 
mortality.

Van Duffel D(1), Van Gemert R, Starinieri P, Pauwels JL, Natukunda A, Rakhmawati 
TW, Chirehwa MT, Orwa J, Thys H, Deboosere P, Robic B, Mees U, Hendrikx M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Life Sciences, Hasselt University, Hasselt, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: We investigated the survival of patients who had undergone elective 
reconstruction of the ascending aorta for degenerative aneurysms. The long-term 
survival was compared to an age- and sex-matched case-control population. An 
analysis of risk factors, influencing survival was made.
METHODS AND RESULTS: From May 1998 to January 2012, 72 patients underwent 
elective reconstruction of the ascending aorta for degenerative disease at the 
department of Cardiothoracic Surgery of the Jessa Hospital, Hasselt, Belgium. 
Sixty patients were treated with Bentall procedures, whereas 12 received 
valve-sparing procedures. The average age of the patient group was 65.5 years 
(range 24-80), with 64% males. Thirty-day mortality was 9.7% (consistent with 
calculated Euroscore II: 9.2%). The long-term survival was 80.9% at 3, 5 and 10 
years. No deaths occurred between 3 and 10 years postoperatively. In an age- and 
sex case-matched Belgian population, 3-, 5- and 10-year survival were 95.7%, 
94.7% and 85.2%, respectively. Long-term survival was not significantly 
different between both groups. Poor NYHA class at the time of surgery (P = 
0.041) and COPD (P = 0.028) had a significant impact on global survival. 
Valve-sparing operations provide similar long-term survival, avoiding 
thrombo-embolic complications.
CONCLUSIONS: Reconstruction of the ascending aorta for degenerative aneurysmal 
disease restores normal life expectancy, compared with an age- and sex-matched 
case-control population. Early mortality is consistent with the Euroscore II 
risk calculation. Whereas late survival progressively declines in the average 
population, it remains constant in the treated group after 3 years. COPD and 
poor functional class significantly impair survival. Valve-sparing procedures 
confer a similar long-term survival as valve replacement.

DOI: 10.1080/ac.68.4.2988887
PMID: 24187760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Ann Vasc Surg. 2014 Jul;28(5):1123-7. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.08.010. Epub
2013  Nov 1.

Comparative study of venous arterialization and pedal bypass in a patient cohort 
with critical limb ischemia.

Schreve MA(1), Minnee RC(2), Bosma J(2), Leijdekkers VJ(2), Idu MM(3), Vahl 
AC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands. Electronic address: mschreve@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, Onze Lieve Vrouwe Gasthuis, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Vascular Surgery, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    Ann Vasc Surg. 2015 Jan;29(1):161-2.

OBJECTIVES: Patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI) have a poor life 
expectancy, and aggressive revascularization is accepted as a means to maintain 
their independence in the end stage of life. The goal of this case-control study 
was to evaluate the clinical outcome of distal venous arterialization and 
compare this with pedal bypass surgery in patients with CLI, and to identify 
potential risk factors that could be used to effectively identify patients at 
high risk of graft occlusion and amputation.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort of patients was treated for CLI using venous 
arterialization or pedal bypass between 2007 and 2012. Kaplan-Meier and Cox 
regression analyses were used to evaluate predictors for limb salvage and 
patency.
RESULTS: In 40 patients with CLI, 21 venous arterializations and 19 pedal 
bypasses were performed. In the venous arterialization group, early occlusion 
was 15%, 1-year patency was 71%, and limb salvage was 53%. In the PB group, 
early occlusion was 23%, one-year patency was 75% and limb salvage was 47%. The 
only independent risk factor for limb salvage in multivariate analysis was 
bypass occlusion (P<0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Limb salvage after venous arterialization was equal to limb salvage 
after pedal bypass surgery in this clinical comparative study.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.08.010
PMID: 24189192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Nov 4;(11):CD002309. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD002309.pub4.

Phosphodiesterase 4 inhibitors for chronic obstructive pulmonary disease.

Chong J(1), Leung B, Poole P.

Author information:
(1)Tauranga Hospital, Tauranga, New Zealand.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2017 Sep 19;9:CD002309.

BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is associated with 
cough, sputum production or dyspnoea and a reduction in lung function, quality 
of life and life expectancy. Apart from smoking cessation, there are no other 
treatments that slow lung function decline. Roflumilast and cilomilast are oral 
phosphodiesterase 4 (PDE4) inhibitors proposed to reduce the airway inflammation 
and bronchoconstriction seen in COPD.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the efficacy and safety of oral PDE4 inhibitors in the 
management of stable COPD.
SEARCH METHODS: We identified randomised controlled trials (RCTs) from the 
Cochrane Airways Group Specialised Register of trials (date of last search June 
2013). We found other trials from web-based clinical trial registers.
SELECTION CRITERIA: We included RCTs if they compared oral PDE4 inhibitors with 
placebo in people with COPD. We allowed co-administration of standard COPD 
therapy.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: One review author extracted data and a second 
review author checked the data, before entry into The Cochrane Collaboration 
software program (RevMan version 5.2). We reported pooled data as mean 
differences (MD), standardised mean differences (SMD) or odds ratios (OR).
MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-nine separate RCTs studying roflumilast (15 trials, 12,654 
patients) or cilomilast (14 trials, 6457 patients) met the inclusion criteria, 
with a duration between six weeks and one year. These included people across 
international study centres with moderate to very severe COPD (GOLD grades 
II-IV), with a mean age of 64 years.Treatment with a PDE4 inhibitor was 
associated with a significant improvement in forced expiratory volume in one 
second (FEV1) over the trial period compared with placebo (MD 45.60 mL; 95% 
confidence interval (CI) 39.45 to 51.75, 22 trials with 15,670 participants, 
moderate quality evidence due to moderate levels of heterogeneity and risk of 
reporting bias). There were small improvements in quality of life (St George's 
Respiratory Questionnaire MD -1.04; 95% CI -1.66 to -0.41, 10 trials with 7618 
participants, moderate quality evidence due to moderate levels of heterogeneity 
and risk of reporting bias) and COPD-related symptoms, but no change in exercise 
tolerance. Treatment with a PDE4 inhibitor was associated with a reduced 
likelihood of COPD exacerbation (OR 0.77; 95% CI 0.71 to 0.83, high quality 
evidence). For every 100 people treated with PDE4 inhibitors, six more remained 
exacerbation-free during the study period compared with placebo (number needed 
to treat for an additional beneficial effect (NNTB) 20; 95% CI 16 to 27). More 
participants in the treatment groups experienced non-serious adverse events 
compared with controls, particularly gastrointestinal symptoms and headache. 
Roflumilast in particular was associated with weight loss during the trial 
period and an increase in insomnia and depressive mood symptoms. Participants 
treated with PDE4 inhibitors were also more likely to withdraw from the trials 
because of adverse effects; on average 24% in the treatment groups withdrew 
compared with 19% in the control groups.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: In people with COPD, PDE4 inhibitors offered benefit over 
placebo in improving lung function and reducing the likelihood of exacerbations; 
however, they had little impact on quality of life or symptoms. Gastrointestinal 
adverse effects and weight loss were common, and safety data submitted to the US 
Food and Drug Administration (FDA) have raised concerns over psychiatric adverse 
events with roflumilast. The optimum place of PDE4 inhibitors in COPD management 
therefore remains to be defined. Longer-term trials are needed to determine 
whether or not PDE4 inhibitors modify FEV1 decline, hospitalisation or mortality 
in COPD.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD002309.pub4
PMID: 24190161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Health Aff (Millwood). 2013 Nov;32(11):1922-7. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0557.

Building a health care workforce for the future: more physicians, professional 
reforms, and technological advances.

Grover A, Niecko-Najjum LM.

Traditionally, projections of US health care demand have been based upon a 
combination of existing trends in usage and idealized or expected delivery 
system changes. For example, 1990s health care demand projections were based 
upon an expectation that delivery models would move toward closed, tightly 
managed care networks and would greatly decrease the demand for subspecialty 
care. Today, however, a different equation is needed on which to base such 
projections. Realistic workforce planning must take into account the fact that 
expanded access to health care, a growing and aging population, increased 
comorbidity, and longer life expectancy will all increase the use of health care 
services per capita over the next few decades--at a time when the number of 
physicians per capita will begin to drop. New technologies and more aggressive 
screening may also change the equation. Strategies to address these increasing 
demands on the health system must include expanded physician training.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0557
PMID: 24191081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. South Med J. 2013 Nov;106(11):631-6. doi: 10.1097/SMJ.0000000000000016.

Geriatrics: (women's health series).

Burnett A(1), Abdo AS, Geraci SA.

Author information:
(1)From the Medical Service, G.V. (Sonny) Montgomery Veterans Affairs Medical 
Center, Jackson, Mississippi and the Department of Medicine, Quillen College of 
Medicine, East Tennessee State University, Johnson City.

As women age, they face challenging health issues. Their average life expectancy 
is longer than their male counterparts, yet they often have multiple chronic, 
ongoing health problems that complicate their care, accentuate their infirmity, 
and reduce their quality of life. Often, they fail to receive the same quality 
or amount of healthcare service, sometimes because of a lack of data specific to 
their demographics, at other times for myriad unclear reasons. What data are 
available suggest that they will usually glean the same benefits as their male 
and younger female counterparts, often with little increased risk of adverse 
effects from available medical diagnostic and therapeutic options. 
Cardiovascular disease, malignancies, musculoskeletal disorders (particularly 
osteoporosis), and cognitive and psychiatric illness are the most frequent, and 
often most devastating, health issues in this growing segment of the population. 
An understanding of the differences in disease frequencies, presentations, and 
response to treatments is necessary to provide older adult women with optimal 
health care.

DOI: 10.1097/SMJ.0000000000000016
PMID: 24192595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


449. Turk J Pediatr. 2013 Mar-Apr;55(2):203-6.

Jacobsen syndrome without thrombocytopenia: a case report and review of the 
literature.

Nalbantoğlu B(1), Donma MM, Nişli K, Paketçi C, Karasu E, Ozdilek B, Mintaş NE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Namık Kemal University Faculty of Medicine, 
Tekirdağ, Turkey. bnalbantoglu@nku.edu.tr.

Jacobsen syndrome (JS), a rare disorder with multiple dysmorphic features, is 
caused by the terminal deletion of chromosome 11q. Typical features include mild 
to moderate psychomotor retardation, trigonocephaly, facial dysmorphism, cardiac 
defects, and thrombocytopenia, though none of these features are invariably 
present. The estimated occurrence of JS is about 1/100,000 births. The 
female/male ratio is 2:1. The patient admitted to our clinic at 3.5 years of age 
with a cardiac murmur and facial anomalies. Facial anomalies included 
trigonocephaly with bulging forehead, hypertelorism, telecanthus, downward 
slanting palpebral fissures, and a carp-shaped mouth. The patient also had 
strabismus. An echocardiogram demonstrated perimembranous aneurysmatic 
ventricular septal defect and a secundum atrial defect. The patient was <3rd 
percentile for height and weight and showed some developmental delay. Magnetic 
resonance imaging (MRI) showed hyperintensive gliotic signal changes in 
periventricular cerebral white matter, and leukodystrophy was suspected. 
Chromosomal analysis of the patient showed terminal deletion of chromosome 11. 
The karyotype was designated 46, XX, del(11) (q24.1). A review of published 
reports shows that the severity of the observed clinical abnormalities in 
patients with JS is not clearly correlated with the extent of the deletion. Most 
of the patients with JS had short stature, and some of them had documented 
growth hormone deficiency, or central or primary hypothyroidism. In patients 
with the classical phenotype, the diagnosis is suspected on the basis of 
clinical findings: intellectual disability, facial dysmorphic features and 
thrombocytopenia. The diagnosis must be confirmed by cytogenetic analysis. For 
patients who survive the neonatal period and infancy, the life expectancy 
remains unknown. In this report, we describe a patient with the clinical 
features of JS without thrombocytopenia. To our knowledge, this is the first 
case reported from Turkey.

PMID: 24192682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


450. Neurodegener Dis. 2014;13(2-3):58-60. doi: 10.1159/000353689. Epub 2013 Oct
30.

Sustained Alzheimer's amyloid pathology in myeloid differentiation 
protein-88-deficient APPswe/PS1 mice.

Goll Y(1), Bekenstein U, Barbash S, Greenberg DS, Zangen R, Shoham S, Soreq H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Chemistry and the Edmond and Lily Safra Center of 
Brain Science, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel.

BACKGROUND: Most Alzheimer's disease (AD) cases arise sporadically and may 
involve innate immune activation of microglial expressed Toll-like receptors 
regulated through the myeloid differentiation protein 88 (MyD88) pathway.
OBJECTIVE: It was the aim of this study to test the innate immune involvement in 
AD pathology.
METHODS: We mated APPsw/PS1ΔE9 mice with MyD88-deficient mice.
RESULTS: Progeny mice had similar levels of soluble amyloid-β peptides, amyloid 
plaque density and neuroimmune staining patterns. However, double-transgenic 
mice did show a significantly reduced life expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Our findings indicate that impaired innate immune responses may play 
a role in AD pathology.

DOI: 10.1159/000353689
PMID: 24192711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


451. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2013 Dec;19(13):2787-95. doi: 
10.1097/01.MIB.0000435850.17263.13.

Cost-effectiveness of nonmelanoma skin cancer screening in Crohn's disease 
patients.

Okafor PN(1), Stallwood CG, Nguyen L, Sahni D, Wasan SK, Farraye FA, Erim DO.

Author information:
(1)*Section of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, Boston Medical Center, 
Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, Massachusetts; †Department of 
Dermatology, Boston Medical Center, Boston University School of Medicine, 
Boston, Massachusetts; and ‡Center for Health Decision Sciences, Harvard School 
of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Several studies have demonstrated an increased risk of nonmelanoma 
skin cancer (NMSC) in patients with inflammatory bowel disease, with the 
greatest risk in patients with Crohn's disease (CD). We investigated the 
cost-effectiveness of NMSC screening in patients with CD.
METHODS: A mathematical model was used to compare lifetime costs, life 
expectancies, and benefits of NMSC screening in a hypothetical cohort of 100,000 
patients with CD. Strategies studied include: (1) Treat NMSC cases as they 
present and follow affected patients annually; (2) Screen patients with CD 
annually once they turn 50 years old, treat NMSC cases as they present and 
follow affected patients annually; (3) Screen patients with CD annually once 
they start receiving thiopurines, treat NMSC cases as they present and follow 
affected patients annually; (4) Screen patients with CD annually when they turn 
50 years old or start receiving thiopurines, treat NMSC cases as they present, 
and follow affected patients annually; (5) Screen all patients with CD annually. 
These strategies were then studied on a biennial basis, accounting for 10 
competing strategies.
RESULTS: Screening all patients with CD annually proved the most cost-effective 
strategy with an average lifetime cost of more than $333,000, a quality-adjusted 
life expectancy of about 26 QALYs (95% confidence interval: 22-29), ICER of 
$3263/QALY, and led to early detection of about 94% of incident NMSC cases. The 
next best strategy was screening all CD patients biennially with an average 
lifetime cost of more than $328,000 with 24.5 QALYs (95% confidence interval: 
21-25). Only 47% of new NMSC cases were detected early with this strategy.
CONCLUSION: At a willingness-to-pay threshold of $50,000, screening all patients 
with CD annually for NMSC proved the most cost-effective strategy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.MIB.0000435850.17263.13
PMID: 24193153 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


452. Rev Med Brux. 2013 Sep;34(4):232-5.

[Non-infectious cystalgias].

[Article in French]

Blaze V(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'Urologie, ISPPC, CHU André Vésale, Montigny-le-Tilleul. 
veronique.blaze@chu-charleroi.be

The trophicity of women's urogenital tissues depends on the hormone level and on 
the quality of the vaginal flora. Stresses of these mucous membranes, seemingly 
minor, give rise to complaints of a perceived perineal discomfort, which is 
disproportionate to the causes. Population in Occident has access to the best 
medical care and hygiene conditions ever. Yet, expenditures on treatment of 
these minor disorders are unwarranted. Cystalgia leads to a large number of 
consultations to general practitioner, gynaecologist and urologist. The aging of 
our societies is another reason. While life expectancy was 51 in 19th century, 
it is now 83. Women will now live a third of their life after menopause'. 
Complaints due to these hormonal withdrawal symptoms need to be heard as they 
are leading to specific psychological behaviours, which are disconcerting for 
the clinician. Patients will strive by all means to obtain treatments which are 
often inappropriate and which sometimes entails the risk of evolving to a 
chronicity of the pains.

PMID: 24195233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


453. Rev Med Brux. 2013 Sep;34(4):311-9.

[Focus on the screening for prostate cancer by PSA].

[Article in French]

Roumeguère T(1), Van Velthoven R.

Author information:
(1)Services d'Urologie, Hôpital Erasme, Bruxelles. 
thierry.roumeguere@erasme.ulb.ac.be

Prostate cancer detection is mainly based on PSA serum levels and digital rectal 
examination. The wide use of PSA with time led to increased prostate cancer 
incidence in the highest ressources countries worldwide with less mortality 
rates compared to less developed regions of the world. Screening for prostate 
cancer is among the most controversial topics in the field of urology. US 
Preventive Services Task Force recently finalized a crisp recommendation that 
routine PSA-based screening should be stopped. Results from the ERSPC study of 
screening for prostate cancer reported the impact of PSA testing in reducing 
cancer-specific mortality but with a higher rate of localized tumour detection 
with better prognostic factors. Scientific societies have elaborated their 
recommendations in favour of a share decision making with patients with at least 
10 to 15 years of life expectancy. In view of the unsatisfactory accuracy of the 
two diagnostic exams, strategies to reduce PSA-driven prostate cancer 
overdiagnosis and overtreatment seem to be necessary. Research has focused on 
novel markers to improve pre-biopsy prostate cancer detection, such as prostate 
health index (phi) and PCA3. In patients with a total PSA range of 2-10 ng/ml, 
phi and PCA3 seem to be the strongest predictors of prostate cancer at initial 
biopsy and are significantly more accurate than total PSA and percentage free 
PSA.

PMID: 24195246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


454. BMC Geriatr. 2013 Nov 6;13:120. doi: 10.1186/1471-2318-13-120.

Multimorbidity patterns of and use of health services by Swedish 85-year-olds: 
an exploratory study.

Dong HJ(1), Wressle E, Marcusson J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Division of Geriatrics, 
Faculty of Health Sciences, Linköping University, 581 85 Linköping, Sweden. 
huanji.dong@liu.se.

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy continues to rise, more elderly are reaching 
advanced ages (≥80 years). The increasing prevalence of multimorbidity places 
additional demands on health-care resources for the elderly. Previous studies 
noted the impact of multimorbidity on the use of health services, but the 
effects of multimorbidity patterns on health-service use have not been well 
studied, especially for very old people. This study determines patterns of 
multimorbidity associated with emergency-room visits and hospitalization in an 
85-year-old population.
METHODS: Health and living conditions were reported via postal questionnaire by 
496 Linköping residents aged 85 years (189 men and 307 women). Diagnoses of 
morbidity were reviewed in patients' case reports, and the local health-care 
register provided information on the use of health services. Hierarchical 
cluster analysis was applied to evaluate patterns of multimorbidity with gender 
stratification. Factors associated with emergency-room visits and 
hospitalization were analyzed using logistic regression models.
RESULTS: Cluster analyses revealed five clusters: vascular, cardiopulmonary, 
cardiac (only for men), somatic-mental (only for men), mental disease (only for 
women), and three other clusters related to aging (one for men and two for 
women). Heart failure in men (OR = 2.4, 95% CI = 1-5.7) and women (OR = 3, 95% 
CI = 1.3-6.9) as a single morbidity explained more variance than morbidity 
clusters in models of emergency-room visits. Men's cardiac cluster (OR = 1.6; 
95% CI = 1-2.7) and women's cardiopulmonary cluster (OR = 1.7, 95% CI = 1.2-2.4) 
were significantly associated with hospitalization. The combination of the 
cardiopulmonary cluster with the men's cardiac cluster (OR = 1.6, 95% CI = 
1-2.4) and one of the women's aging clusters (OR = 0.5, 95% CI = 0.3-0.8) showed 
interaction effects on hospitalization.
CONCLUSION: In this 85-year-old population, patterns of cardiac and pulmonary 
conditions were better than a single morbidity in explaining hospitalization. 
Heart failure was superior to multimorbidity patterns in explaining 
emergency-room visits. A holistic approach to examining the patterns of 
multimorbidity and their relationships with the use of health services will 
contribute to both local health care policy and geriatric practice.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2318-13-120
PMCID: PMC3840694
PMID: 24195643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


455. BMC Health Serv Res. 2013 Nov 6;13:467. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-467.

The psychosocial impact of home use medical devices on the lives of older 
people: a qualitative study.

Thomson R(1), Martin JL, Sharples S.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Engineering, University of Nottingham, Tower Building, University 
Park Nottingham, Nottingham NG7 2RD, UK. eexrt1@nottingham.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Increased life expectancy and the accompanying prevalence of chronic 
conditions have led to the focus and delivery of health care migrating from the 
hospital and into people's homes. While previous studies have investigated the 
integration of particular types of medical devices into the home, it was our 
intention to describe how medical devices are integrated into the lives of older 
people.
METHODS: Adopting a qualitative study design, 12 older people, who used medical 
devices in the home, took part in in-depth, semi structured interviews. In 7 of 
the interviews participants and their partners were interviewed together. These 
interviews were recorded, transcribed and analysed thematically.
RESULTS: Two themes were constructed that describe how medical devices that are 
used in the home present certain challenges to older people and their partners 
in how the device is adopted and the personal adaptations that they are required 
to make. The first theme of 'self-esteem' highlighted the psychological impact 
on users. The second theme of 'the social device' illustrated the social impact 
of these devices on the user and the people around them.
CONCLUSIONS: We found that these devices had both a positive and negative 
psychosocial impact on users' lives. An improved understanding of these 
psychological and social issues may assist both designers of medical devices and 
the professionals who issue them to better facilitate the integration of medical 
devices into the homes and lives of older people.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-467
PMCID: PMC4226280
PMID: 24195757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


456. Br J Sports Med. 2015 Oct;49(20):1343-7. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2013-092743.
Epub  2013 Nov 6.

Challenges with cost-utility analyses of behavioural interventions among older 
adults at risk for dementia.

Davis JC(1), Bryan S(2), Marra CA(3), Hsiung GY(4), Liu-Ambrose T(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluation, Vancouver Coastal Health 
Research Institute, Vancouver, Canada School of Population and Public Health, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada Aging, Mobility, and Cognitive 
Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of Physical Therapy, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(2)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluation, Vancouver Coastal Health 
Research Institute, Vancouver, Canada School of Population and Public Health, 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(3)Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, Canada Centre for Health Evaluation and Outcome Sciences, Providence 
Health Care Research Institute, Vancouver, Canada.
(4)Division of Neurology, Department of Medicine, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada Brain Research Centre, Vancouver Coastal Research 
Institute, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(5)Aging, Mobility, and Cognitive Neuroscience Laboratory, Department of 
Physical Therapy, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada Brain 
Research Centre, Vancouver Coastal Research Institute, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, Canada Centre for Hip Health and Mobility, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver Coastal Research Institute, Vancouver, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Cognitive decline is one of the most prominent healthcare issues of 
the 21st century. Within the context of combating cognitive decline through 
behavioural interventions, physical activity is a promising approach. There is a 
dearth of health economic data in the area of behavioural interventions for 
dementia prevention. Yet, economic evaluations are essential for providing 
information to policy makers for resource allocation. It is essential we first 
address population and intervention-specific methodological challenges prior to 
building a larger evidence base. We use a cost-utility analysis conducted 
alongside the exercise for cognition and everyday living (EXCEL) study to 
illustrate methodological challenges specific to assessing the 
cost-effectiveness of behavioural interventions aimed at older adults at risk of 
cognitive decline.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis conducted concurrently with a 6-month, 
three-arm randomised controlled trial (ie, the EXCEL study) was used as an 
example to identify and discuss methodological challenges.
RESULTS: Both the aerobic training and resistance training interventions were 
less costly than twice weekly balance and tone classes. In critically evaluating 
the economic evaluation of the EXCEL study we identified four category-specific 
challenges: (1) analysing costs; (2) assessing quality-adjusted life-years; (3) 
Incomplete data; and (4) 'Intervention' activities of the control group.
CONCLUSIONS: Resistance training and aerobic training resulted in healthcare 
cost saving and were equally effective to balance and tone classes after only 
6 months of intervention. To ensure this population is treated fairly in terms 
of claims on resources, we first need to identify areas for methodological 
improvement.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsports-2013-092743
PMCID: PMC4318691
PMID: 24195918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: All authors have nothing to 
declare. Conflict of Interest Statement Jennifer C. Davis is funded by a Michael 
Smith Foundation for Health Research Senior Graduate Studentship, a Canadian 
Institute for Health Research Canada Graduate Scholarship. Teresa Liu-Ambrose is 
a Canada Research Chair in Physical Activity, Mobility, and Cognitive 
Neuroscience and a Michael Smith Foundation for Health Research (MSFHR) Scholar. 
Carlo A. Marra is funded by a Canada Research Chair in Pharmaceutical Outcomes 
and a Michael Smith Foundation for Health Research Scholar Award. G-Y. R. Hsiung 
is funded by a Canadian Institute of Health Research Clinical Genetics 
Investigatorship, and has received research support as a clinical trials site 
investigator from Baxter, Bristol-Myers-Squibb, Elan, Janssen-AI, Pfizer, 
Hoffman-La Roche, and Genentech. Conflict of interest: None declared.


457. Emerg Med J. 2015 Mar;32(3):203-6. doi: 10.1136/emermed-2012-202083. Epub
2013  Nov 6.

Temporal trends in the associations between age, sex and socioeconomic status 
after death from motor vehicle collisions in England and Wales: 1960-2009.

Fogarty AW(1), Liu C(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Nottingham, City 
Hospital, Nottingham, UK.
(2)Department of Neurology and Trauma Outcomes Unit, Barts Healthcare, London, 
UK Regional Neurological Rehabilitation Unit, Homerton Hospital, London, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the trend in the associations between socioeconomic 
status and gender with median age at death in England and Wales, from 1960 to 
2009.
METHODS: Annual cross-sectional studies of all registered deaths from a motor 
vehicle collision in England and Wales, 1960-2009.
RESULTS: There were 1647 deaths from a motor vehicle collision in 1960 and 964 
deaths in 2009. The number of children aged 14 years or less who died in 1960 
was 66 and this figure had reduced to 20 deaths by 2009. Individuals in 
non-manual occupations were consistently more likely to die above the median age 
of death than those in manual occupations during 1960-1963 (OR 1.66; 95% CI 1.50 
to 1.84) and also during 1990-2000 (OR 1.54; 95% CI 1.44 to 1.65). For 
1960-1969, women had a higher risk of dying at above the annual median age of 
death (OR 1.72; 95% CI 1.62 to 1.82); for 2001-2009 the corresponding OR was 
1.80 (95% CI 1.68 to 1.94).
CONCLUSIONS: There has been a 41% decrease in annual deaths after motor vehicle 
collisions in England and Wales over the past 50 years. The number of 
individuals over the age of 74 years dying in motor vehicle collisions has 
increased slightly, while the number of children's deaths decreased by 70% over 
the same time period despite driving becoming more common. Involvement in motor 
vehicle collisions may contribute to the sex and social class gradients in life 
expectancy observed in England and Wales.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/emermed-2012-202083
PMID: 24196196 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


458. Bull Cancer. 2013 Nov;100(11):1153-62. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2013.1848.

[The surgical treatment of metastases in the appendicular skeleton].

[Article in French]

Szymanski C(1).

Author information:
(1)CHRU de Lille, service d'orthopédie A, rue Émile-Laine, 59000 Lille, France.

The orthopedic surgical treatment of metastases is very important in the 
treatment of osteophile cancers. The surgical option is always proposed after a 
multidisciplinary decision. The main risk of the metastases is the pathological 
fracture. This risk has to be evaluated and a preventive treatment can often be 
performed. The surgical options are multiple: such as preventive osteosynthesis, 
pathological fracture treatment, reconstruction with prosthesis, carcinological 
excision… The choice of the treatment is support on the life expectancy and the 
functional risk of the metastatic bone lesion.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2013.1848
PMID: 24197129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


459. Kardiol Pol. 2013;71(10):1065-72. doi: 10.5603/KP.2013.0262.

Life years lost due to cardiovascular diseases.

Maniecka-Bryła I(1), Pikala M, Bryła M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Medical University of Lodz, 
Lodz, Poland. irena.maniecka-bryla@umed.lodz.pl.

BACKGROUND: When evaluating the health status of a population, an increasingly 
important role is played by measures aiming to access premature mortality in 
lost lifetime units. There is a considerable number of life years 'to be 
recovered' provided cardiovascular disease (CVD) mortality is reduced, as CVD 
cause the highest absolute number of years lost.
AIM: To access life years lost by the inhabitants of the Lodz region due to CVD 
and to determine the rank of each disorder within this ICD-10 class, which 
causes most life years lost, as well as to identify trends in this regard.
METHODS: Our research was based on a dataset consisting of 313,144 death 
certificates, including 146,852 due to CVD, of the inhabitants of the Lodz 
region from 1999 to 2008. We applied the standard expected years of life lost 
(SEYLL) indicators per living person (SEYLLp) and per death (SEYLLd) to 
calculate life years lost. Joinpoint models were used to analyse changes in 
time. We also estimated average annual percentage changes in the SEYLL 
indicators.
RESULTS: In 2008, the number of life years lost amounted to 754 per 10,000 males 
and 595 per 10,000 females. The most important contribution to life years lost 
among males was from ischaemic heart disease (IHD) (SEYLLp = 200), particularly 
acute myocardial infarction (AMI) (SEYLLp = 128). Nearly the same number of 
years lost was due to other heart disease (SEYLLp = 199), especially heart 
failure (SEYLLp = 121). Cerebrovascular disease caused 191 life years lost per 
10,000 males, while diseases of arteries, arterioles and capillaries caused the 
loss of 98 life years per 10,000 males. In women, the highest number of life 
years lost was attributed to cerebrovascular disease (SEYLLp = 176) and other 
heart disease (SEYLLp = 152), especially heart failure (SEYLLp = 95). IHD 
contributed to the loss of 113 life years per 10,000 females (including AMI: 
SEYLLp = 62), while diseases of arteries, arterioles and capillaries led to 112 
life years lost per 10,000 females.
CONCLUSIONS: The highest number of life years lost resulted from IHD among males 
and cerebrovascular disease among females. A growing trend in the number of life 
years lost due to CVD was noted since 2002 for males and since 2003 for females. 
These unfavourable trends decelerated considerably after 2006. The highest 
decrease in life years lost for both sexes in 1999-2008 was noted for IHD.

DOI: 10.5603/KP.2013.0262
PMID: 24197588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


460. Arch Dis Child. 2014 Jan;99(1):2-3. doi: 10.1136/archdischild-2013-304674.
Epub  2013 Nov 6.

Prognostication in cystic fibrosis: another futile pastime?

Rosenthal M.

DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2013-304674
PMID: 24197871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


461. Ann Vasc Surg. 2014 Jan;28(1):123-31. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.05.007. Epub
2013  Nov 5.

Mini-invasive treatment of abdominal aortic aneurysms: current roles of 
endovascular, laparoscopic, and open techniques.

Coscas R(1), Maumias T(1), Capdevila C(1), Javerliat I(1), Goëau-Brissonnière 
O(1), Coggia M(2).

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, Hôpital Universitaire Ambroise Paré, 
Boulogne-Billancourt, et Faculté de Médecine Paris-Ile de France-Ouest, 
Université de Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, France.
(2)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, Hôpital Universitaire Ambroise Paré, 
Boulogne-Billancourt, et Faculté de Médecine Paris-Ile de France-Ouest, 
Université de Versailles Saint Quentin en Yvelines, France. Electronic address: 
mpcoggia@aol.com.

BACKGROUND: Endovascular aortic repair (EVAR), laparoscopic aortic surgery 
(LAS), and open surgery (OS) are three established treatment methods of 
abdominal aortic aneurysms (AAA). While these techniques are often percieved as 
competitive between them, they are complementary for the vascular surgeon, whose 
goal is to provide a treatment adapted to each case that is noninvasive and 
durable. The objective of this study was to report our results of AAA repair to 
better define the roles of the three techniques.
METHODS: From January 2009 to December 2011, we operated on 235 patients for 
AAAs. Patients for whom the three technical methods were discussed 
preoperatively were selected. Cases where the three techniques were not 
discussed were excluded (ruptured AAA, technique not available). One hundred 
seventy-five (75%) patients were included. Four groups were established based on 
the surgical risk and the anatomic EVAR criteria of the French Health Authority 
(Haute Autorité de Santé [HAS]), including: (1) good risk and favorable anatomy 
(GR-FA); (2) good risk and unfavorable anatomy (GR-UA); (3) high-risk and 
favorable anatomy (HR-FA); and (4) high-risk and unfavorable anatomy (HR-UA). 
Data collection was prospective. The numerical data were expressed as median and 
range.
RESULTS: There were 166 (95%) men, aged 74 years (range 38-97 years). AAA 
diameter was 51 mm (range 30-81 mm). Mini-invasive treatment (EVAR or LAS) was 
chosen in 156 (89%) cases. Mortality at 30 days was 3.4% (6 patients, 1 EVAR, 1 
LAS, and 4 OS), including 3 patients presenting with a "shaggy aorta." There 
were 58, 19, 65, and 33 patients in groups GR-FA (33%), GR-UA (11%), HR-FA 
(37%), and HR-UA (19%), respectively. The distribution of the three techniques 
(EVAR, LAS, OS) according to the groups was as follows: GR-FA (9, 46, 3); GR-UA 
(0, 13, 6); HR-FA (50, 13, 2); and HR-UA (12, 13, 8), respectively. The results 
by subgroups are presented.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on our results, we present a new algorithm for AAA treatment. 
Among GR-FA patients, EVAR and LAS should be discussed according to life 
expectancy and wish of the patient. In GR-UA patients, LAS and OS can be 
proposed. For HR-FA patients, EVAR remains the first choice, but LAS can be used 
in cases with good life expectancy. In the HR-UA patients, LAS is the best 
choice because of the late complications of EVAR, but a broader use of 
fenestrated stent grafts or the chimney technique may be beneficial. Last, the 
surgical threshold should be pushed back among AAA patients presenting with a 
shaggy aorta.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.05.007
PMID: 24200131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


462. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2013 Dec;17(12):1531-7. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.13.0423.

Cost-effectiveness of a 12-dose regimen for treating latent tuberculous 
infection in the United States.

Shepardson D(1), Marks SM, Chesson H, Kerrigan A, Holland DP, Scott N, Tian X, 
Borisov AS, Shang N, Heilig CM, Sterling TR, Villarino ME, Mac Kenzie WR.

Author information:
(1)Division of Tuberculosis Elimination, National Center for HIV/AIDS, 
Hepatitis, STD and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention 
(CDC), Atlanta, Georgia, USA; Steven M Teutsch Prevention Effectiveness 
Fellowship Program, Office of Surveillance, Epidemiology and Laboratory 
Sciences, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia, USA; Department of Mathematics and Statistics, 
Mount Holyoke College, South Hadley, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2013 Dec;17(12):1515.
    Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2014 Jun;18(6):751.

SETTING: A large randomized controlled trial recently showed that for treating 
latent tuberculous infection (LTBI) in persons at high risk of progression to 
tuberculosis (TB) disease, a 12-dose regimen of weekly rifapentine plus 
isoniazid (3HP) administered as directly observed treatment (DOT) can be as 
effective as 9 months of daily self-administered isoniazid (9H).
OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of 3HP compared to 9H.
DESIGN: A computational model was designed to simulate individuals with LTBI 
treated with 9H or 3HP. Costs and health outcomes were estimated to determine 
the incremental costs per active TB case prevented and per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) gained by 3HP compared to 9H.
RESULTS: Over a 20-year period, treatment of LTBI with 3HP rather than 9H 
resulted in 5.2 fewer cases of TB and 25 fewer lost QALYs per 1000 individuals 
treated. From the health system and societal perspectives, 3HP would cost 
respectively US$21,525 and $4294 more per TB case prevented, and respectively 
$4565 and $911 more per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: 3HP may be a cost-effective alternative to 9H, particularly if the 
cost of rifapentine decreases, the effectiveness of 3HP can be maintained 
without DOT, and 3HP treatment is limited to those with a high risk of 
progression to TB disease.

DOI: 10.5588/ijtld.13.0423
PMCID: PMC5451112
PMID: 24200264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Curr Top Med Chem. 2013;13(24):3131-64. doi: 10.2174/15680266113136660223.

Structure-activity relationships and mechanism of action of macrolides derived 
from erythromycin as antibacterial agents.

Liang JH, Han X(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Beijing Institute of Technology, Beijing 100081, 
China. ljhbit@bit.edu.cn.

Enormous efforts were focused on the 3-descladinosyl erythromycin derivatives 
which led to 3-keto (ketolides), 3-O-acyl (acylides), 3-O-carbamate 
(carbamolides), and 3-O-alkyl (alkylides) and cladinosyl-containing erythromycin 
derivatives such as 4"-O-acyl, 4"-O-carbamate, and 4"-O-alkyl derivatives as 
recently exemplified by macrolones (macrolide-quinolone hybrids). Ketolides 
acquire activity against MLSB-resistant pathogens via a featured arylalkyl 
extension suspended on the macrolide core, which interacts with a base pair 
formed by A752Ec and U2609Ec located in the nascent peptide release tunnel of 
the bacterial rRNA. A base pair formed by C2610Ec and G2505Ec probably is 
another novel binding site for 3-descladinosyl non-ketolides. It is believed 
that 4"-derived compounds perhaps interfere with the formation of polypeptide 
because the extension oriented into peptidyl transferase center (PTC) region. 
Although macrolones are hybrids of macrolides and quinolones, they do not have 
dual modes of action, and serve only as protein synthesis inhibitors.

DOI: 10.2174/15680266113136660223
PMID: 24200358 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. Int J Food Microbiol. 2013 Nov 1;167(3):369-77. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.10.002. Epub 2013 Oct 12.

Shelf life extension of whole Norway lobster Nephrops norvegicus using modified 
atmosphere packaging.

Gornik SG(1), Albalat A, Theethakaew C, Neil DM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biodiversity, Animal Health and Comparative Medicine, College of 
Medical, Veterinary & Life Science, University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

Once a nuisance by-catch, today the Norway lobster (Nephrops norvegicus) is a 
valuable UK fisheries commodity. Unfortunately, the species is very susceptible 
to quality deterioration post harvest as it quickly develops black spots and 
also spoils rapidly due to bacterial growth. Treatment with chemicals can stop 
the blackening and carefully monitored cold storage can result in a sensory 
shelf life of up to 6.5 days. The high susceptibility to spoilage greatly 
restricts the extent to which N. norvegicus can be distributed to retailers and 
displayed for sale. The application of modified atmosphere (MA) could be 
extremely beneficial, allowing the chilled product to stay fresh for a long 
period of time, thus ensuring higher sales. In the present study, we identified 
a gas mix for the MA packaging (MAP) of whole N. norvegicus lobster into 200 g 
retail packs. Our results show that a shelf life extension to 13 days can be 
achieved when retail packs are stored in MAP at 1 °C. Effectiveness of the MAP 
was evaluated by using a newly developed QIM for MA-packaged whole N. norvegicus 
and also by analyzing bacterial plate counts. Changes in the microflora and 
effects of different storage temperatures on the quality of the MA packs are 
also presented. The main specific spoilage organism (SSO) of modified atmosphere 
packaged Norway lobster is Photobacterium phosphoreum.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.10.002
PMID: 24201017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2013 Oct;163(19-20):435-41. doi:
10.1007/s10354-013-0249-6.  Epub 2013 Nov 8.

[Procedural organisation: surgical and anaesthesiological management in hip 
fractures].

[Article in German]

Müller EJ(1), Gerstorfer I, Dovjak P, Iglseder B, Pinter G, Müller W, Pils K, 
Mikosch P, Zmaritz M, Weissenberger-Leduc M, Gosch M, Thaler HW.

Author information:
(1)Abteilung für Unfallchirurgie, LKH Klagenfurt, Klagenfurt, Austria, 
ernst.mueller@kabeg.at.

In patients with hip fractures, in order to reduce the high number of general 
complications and those associated with the specific treatment, the functional 
loss and cognitive impairment, implementation of co-ordinated, multidisciplinary 
treatment pathways, and rehabilitation, is mandatory. The imminent treatment of 
proximal femoral fracture consists of major orthopaedic surgery in most cases 
(total or partial hip arthroplasty, osteosynthesis). After the diagnosis of a 
hip fracture, an adequate pain medication should be initiated. The decision 
making for the fracture treatment includes fracture type, patient's age, 
cognitive function, mobility before the fall and functional demands of the 
patient in the context of patients life expectancy and goals of care. The 
anaesthesiological evaluation focuses on risk assessment. Medical abnormalities 
should be optimized within 24 to 48 h, or an increased perioperative risk due to 
comorbidities has to be accepted. The timing and the course of further 
preoperative diagnostic examinations and therapeutic interventions should be 
co-ordinated between the involved medical disciplines. After the operation a 
structured screening for delirium should be initiated and further evaluation of 
patient's nutrition, fall-associated medication, living conditions and 
osteoporosis treatment has to be performed.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-013-0249-6
PMID: 24201598 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. BMJ Open. 2013 Nov 7;3(11):e003740. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003740.

Impact of faecal haemoglobin concentration on colorectal cancer mortality and 
all-cause death.

Chen LS(1), Yen AM, Fraser CG, Chiu SY, Fann JC, Wang PE, Lin SC, Liao CS, Lee 
YC, Chiu HM, Chen HH.

Author information:
(1)School of Oral Hygiene, College of Oral Medicine, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei, Taiwan.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the effect of an incremental increase in faecal haemoglobin 
(f-Hb) concentration on colorectal cancer (CRC) mortality and all-cause death.
DESIGN: We conducted an observational study of cohorts over time based on two 
population-based CRC screening programmes.
SETTING: Two cities of Taiwan.
PARTICIPANTS: 1233 individuals with CRC (217 prevalent cases and 1016 incident 
cases) and 2640 with colorectal adenoma (1246 prevalent cases and 1394 incident 
cases) found in the two cohorts of 59 767 and 125 976 apparently healthy 
individuals, aged 40 years and above, who had been invited to participate in 
screening since 2001 and 2003, respectively.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Death from CRC and all-cause death ascertained by 
following up from the entire two cohorts over time until 2009.
RESULTS: The effect of an incremental increase in f-Hb on the risk for CRC 
mortality was noted, increasing from a slightly increased risk for the category 
of f-Hb of 20-49 ng Hb/mL (adjusted HR (aHR)=1.09; 95% CI 0.68 to 1.75) to 11.67 
(95% CI 7.71 to 17.66) for the group with f-Hb≥450 ng Hb/mL as compared with the 
group considered baseline with f-Hb of 1-19 ng Hb/mL (p<0.001). A similar but 
less marked increasing trend was found for all-cause mortality, aHR increasing 
from 1.15 (95% CI 1.07 to 1.24) for the group with f-Hb of 20-49 ng Hb/mL to 
1.67 (95% CI 1.54 to 2.07) for the group with f-Hb≥450 ng Hb/mL.
CONCLUSIONS: We substantiated the impacts of an incremental increase in f-Hb on 
the risk for death from CRC and all-cause death, consistently showing a 
