Saving lives of patients with adrenal insufficiency: a pan-European initiative?

Quinkler M(1), Hahner S, Johannsson G, Stewart PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Charite University, Berlin, Germany.

Comment in
    Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2014 Dec;81(6):937-8.

DOI: 10.1111/cen.12378
PMID: 24299429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Neuroradiol J. 2007 Apr 30;20(2):242-5. doi: 10.1177/197140090702000221.
Epub  2007 Apr 30.

Anterior medial transoral c2 vertebroplasty. A case report.

Callari G(1), Vallone S, Boraso F.

Author information:
(1)Neuroradiology Department, Local Health Trust 1 Imperiese; Imperia, Italy - 
gcallari@hotmail.com.

We present the case of a 63-year-old man with a C2 metastasis and a life 
expectancy of a few months who was independent at the time of diagnosis. In 
accordance with oncologists and radiotherapists, under antibiotic prophylaxis 
and general anesthesia, C2 vertebroplasty with an anterior medial transoral 
approach was performed, followed by radiotherapy. A satisfactory clinical result 
was obtained consisting in pain relief and avoidance of progression to vertebral 
collapse and spinal cord compression. We suggest that vertebroplasty should be 
performed even in compromised patients with a short life expectancy with a C2 
metastasis difficult to access from a technical point of view.

DOI: 10.1177/197140090702000221
PMID: 24299653


717. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2014 Jan;108(1):49-54. doi: 10.1093/trstmh/trt108.
 Epub 2013 Dec 2.

Does a significant reduction in malaria risk make lopinavir/ritonavir-based ART 
cost-effective for children with HIV in co-endemic, low-resource settings?

Ahmed BS(1), Phelps BR, Reuben EB, Ferris RE.

Author information:
(1)United States Agency for International Development, Office of HIV/AIDS, 1300 
Pennsylvania Ave., Washington, DC 20523, USA.

BACKGROUND: HIV infection and malaria co-infection is not uncommon among 
children in co-endemic regions, and evidence suggests that HIV is a risk factor 
for severe malaria among children. HIV protease inhibitors (PIs) are highly 
effective in pediatric HIV treatment regimens, however, their effectiveness 
against malaria has been mixed, with some PIs demonstrating in vitro activity 
against Plasmodium falciparum. Recent findings suggest lopinavir/ritonavir 
(LPV/r)-based treatment regimens reduce the incidence of malaria infection by 
over 40% in pediatric HIV patients compared to non-nucleoside reverse 
transcriptase inhibitor (NNRTI)-based regimens.
METHODS: We assessed whether a significant reduction in malaria risk makes 
LPV/r-based ART regimens cost-effective compared to NNRTI-based regimens in 
co-endemic, low-resource settings. We modeled the difference in unit cost per 
disability adjusted life year (DALY) gained among two theoretical groups of HIV+ 
children under 5 years old receiving ART in a resource-limited setting 
co-endemic for malaria. The first group received standard NNRTI-based 
antiretrovirals, the second group received a standard regimen containing LPV/r. 
We used recent cohort data for the incidence reduction for malaria. Drug costs 
were taken from the 2011 Clinton Health Access Initiative Antiretroviral (ARV) 
ceiling price list. DALYs for HIV and malaria were derived from WHO estimates.
RESULTS: Our model suggests a unit cost of US$147 per DALY gained for the 
LPV/r-based group compared to US$37 per DALY gained for the NNRTI-based group.
CONCLUSION: In HIV and malaria co-endemic settings, considerations of PI cost 
effectiveness incorporating known reductions in malaria mortality suggest a 
nominal increase in DALYs gained for PIs over NNRTI-based regimens for HIV 
positive children under five on ART. Our analysis was based on several 
assumptions due to lack of sound data on malaria and HIV DALY attribution among 
pediatric populations. Further study in this area is required.

DOI: 10.1093/trstmh/trt108
PMID: 24300443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Zh Nevrol Psikhiatr Im S S Korsakova. 2013;113(10 Pt 2):8-14.

[Clinical epidemiology of multiple sclerosis in Moscow. Descriptive epidemiology 
in population of one region of Moscow].

[Article in Russian]

Boĭko AN, Kukel' TM, Lysenko MA, Vdovichenko TV, Gusev EI.

The epidemiological study of multiple sclerosis (MS) has been done in the 
population (927 400 people) of the North-Western Administrative District (SZAO) 
of Moscow for the period of 2008-2012. In average for the 5 years the prevalence 
of MS was amounted to 53.38 cases per 100 000 population, incidence was 2.16 
cases per 100 000 population and the mortality rate was 0.23 cases per 100 000 
population. Thus, the population of SZAO belongs to high-incidence area. An 
increase in the prevalence of MS as well as a reduction of incidence and 
mortality were observed during a comparative analysis with the epidemiological 
indicators of MS in Moscow in the period of 1991-1996. Such dynamics of 
epidemiological indicators is due to the accumulation of patients in population 
that, in the first place, is related with the quality improvement of diagnostic 
and therapeutic-rehabilitative measures which increased the frequency of early 
diagnosis and patient's life expectancy together with the implementation of 
disease-modifying therapy (DMT) and modern methods of symptomatic treatment.

PMID: 24300812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Int J Obes (Lond). 2014 Aug;38(8):1104-9. doi: 10.1038/ijo.2013.227. Epub
2013  Dec 4.

Cost effectiveness of primary care referral to a commercial provider for weight 
loss treatment, relative to standard care: a modelled lifetime analysis.

Fuller NR(1), Carter H(2), Schofield D(2), Hauner H(3), Jebb SA(4), Colagiuri 
S(1), Caterson ID(1).

Author information:
(1)The Boden Institute, The University of Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(2)NHMRC Clinical Trials Centre and School of Public Health, The University of 
Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Else Kroener-Fresenius-Centre for Nutritional Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, 
Technische Universität München, Munich, Germany.
(4)MRC Human Nutrition Research, Cambridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: Because of the high prevalence of overweight and obesity, there is a 
need to identify cost-effective approaches for weight loss in primary care and 
community settings.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the long-term cost effectiveness of a commercial weight 
loss programme (Weight Watchers) (CP) compared with standard care (SC), as 
defined by national guidelines.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to calculate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), expressed as the cost per quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY) over the lifetime. The probabilities and quality-of-life utilities 
of outcomes were extrapolated from trial data using estimates from the published 
literature. A health sector perspective was adopted.
RESULTS: Over a patient's lifetime, the CP resulted in an incremental cost 
saving of AUD 70 per patient, and an incremental 0.03 QALYs gained per patient. 
As such, the CP was found to be the dominant treatment, being more effective and 
less costly than SC (95% confidence interval: dominant to 6225 per QALY). 
Despite the CP delaying the onset of diabetes by ∼10 months, there was no 
significant difference in the incidence of type 2 diabetes, with the CP 
achieving <0.1% fewer cases than SC over the lifetime.
CONCLUSION: The modelled results suggest that referral to community-based 
interventions may provide a highly cost-effective approach for those at high 
risk of weight-related comorbidities.

DOI: 10.1038/ijo.2013.227
PMCID: PMC4388721
PMID: 24301133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. J Youth Adolesc. 1986 Apr;15(2):99-113. doi: 10.1007/BF02141732.

Future-time perspective in adolescence: The present of things future revisited.

Greene AL(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, West Virginia University, P.O. Box 6040, 
26506-6040, Morgantown, West Virginia.

Several theorists have suggested that the observed changes in adolescent 
future-time perspective are due to the emergence of formal-operations reasoning 
[e. g., T. J. Cottle and S. Klineberg (1974),The Present of Things Future, Free 
Press-Macmillan, New York; P. Fraisse (1963),The Psychology of Time, Harper & 
Row, New York; H. Hartmann (1958),Ego Psychology and the Problem of Adaptation, 
International Universities Press, New York; J. Piaget (1968),Six Psychological 
Studies, Vintage Book, New York]. Using a cross-sectional sample of 60 Caucasian 
adolescents, the present study was designed to examine this hypostatized 
interrelation. Data obtained through individual interviews provide only limited 
support for a cognitive hypothesis. As predicted, older students showed greater 
future extension and the more cognitively advanced students proved better able 
to project a set of events into the distant future. However, neither the older, 
nor the more cognitively advanced, students projected a greater number or a more 
consistent set of future events than did their respective counterparts. 
Moreover, analysis of the types of events projected obtained significance only 
for grade level. The findings are discussed from a contextualist perspective, 
within which consideration is given to the influence of experiential and 
life-span status factors.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02141732
PMID: 24301624721. Genet Mol Res. 2013 Nov 11;12(4):5424-32. doi: 10.4238/2013.November.11.4.

Overexpression of an alternative oxidase gene, OsAOX1a, improves cold tolerance 
in Oryza sativa L.

Li CR(1), Liang DD, Xu RF, Li H, Zhang YP, Qin RY, Li L, Wei PC, Yang JB.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Anhui University, Hefei, China.

Low temperature is a major environmental stress in rice cultivating and 
production. The alternative oxidase 1 (AOX1) gene is potentially important for 
genetic engineering to increase cold adaptation. However, previous studies 
related to this effect have mostly focused on the dicot plants Arabidopsis and 
tobacco, whereas functional research on rice is limited. In this study, we 
cloned a rice predominant cold-response AOX1 gene, OsAOX1a. Transgenic rice 
plants with overexpression of OsAOX1a were obtained. We found that OsAOX1a 
overexpression could strongly enhance the cold growth of seedlings, especially 
with respect to root extension. However, growth between transgenic and control 
plants did not differ under normal conditions. Furthermore, the lipid 
peroxidation and ion leakage rate were determined after cold treatment in 
transgenic plants. Both factors were reduced by OsAOX1a overexpression, which 
revealed that OsAOX1a could reduce oxidative damage under cold stress. Taken 
together, our results suggested that overexpressing OsAOX1a could improve growth 
performance of rice under cold stress, which might be closely related to the 
reduction of reactive oxygen species generation and oxidative damage.

DOI: 10.4238/2013.November.11.4
PMID: 24301915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. BMJ Open. 2013 Dec 2;3(12):e003710. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003710.

Life expectancy estimation in small administrative areas with non-uniform 
population sizes: application to Australian New South Wales local government 
areas.

Stephens AS(1), Purdie S, Yang B, Moore H.

Author information:
(1)NSW Biostatistical Officer Training Program, NSW Ministry of Health, Sydney, 
Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To determine a practical approach for deriving life expectancy 
estimates in Australian New South Wales local government areas which display a 
large diversity in population sizes.
DESIGN: Population-based study utilising mortality and estimated residential 
population data.
SETTING: 153 local government areas in New South Wales, Australia.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Key performance measures of Chiang II, Silcocks, adjusted 
Chiang II and Bayesian random effects model methodologies of life expectancy 
estimation including agreement analysis of life expectancy estimates and 
comparison of estimate SEs.
RESULTS: Chiang II and Silcocks methods produced almost identical life 
expectancy estimates across a large range of population sizes but calculation 
failures and excessively large SEs limited their use in small populations. A 
population of 25 000 or greater was required to estimate life expectancy with SE 
of 1 year or less using adjusted Chiang II (a composite of Chiang II and 
Silcocks methods). Data aggregation offered some remedy for extending the use of 
adjusted Chiang II in small populations but reduced estimate currency. A 
recently developed Bayesian random effects model utilising the correlation in 
mortality rates between genders, age groups and geographical areas markedly 
improved the precision of life expectancy estimates in small populations.
CONCLUSIONS: We propose a hybrid approach for the calculation of life expectancy 
using the Bayesian random effects model in populations of 25 000 or lower 
permitting the precise derivation of life expectancy in small populations. In 
populations above 25 000, we propose the use of adjusted Chiang II to guard 
against violations of spatial correlation, to benefit from a widely accepted 
method that is simpler to communicate to local health authorities and where its 
slight inferior performance compared with the Bayesian approach is of minor 
practical significance.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003710
PMCID: PMC3856616
PMID: 24302503


723. AMIA Jt Summits Transl Sci Proc. 2013 Mar 18;2013:249-53. eCollection 2013.

Identifying Abdominal Aortic Aneurysm Cases and Controls using Natural Language 
Processing of Radiology Reports.

Sohn S(1), Ye Z, Liu H, Chute CG, Kullo IJ.

Author information:
(1)Division of Biomedical Statistics and Informatics.

Prevalence of abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) is increasing due to longer life 
expectancy and implementation of screening programs. Patient-specific 
longitudinal measurements of AAA are important to understand pathophysiology of 
disease development and modifiers of abdominal aortic size. In this paper, we 
applied natural language processing (NLP) techniques to process radiology 
reports and developed a rule-based algorithm to identify AAA patients and also 
extract the corresponding aneurysm size with the examination date. AAA patient 
cohorts were determined by a hierarchical approach that: 1) selected potential 
AAA reports using keywords; 2) classified reports into AAA-case vs. non-case 
using rules; and 3) determined the AAA patient cohort based on a report-level 
classification. Our system was built in an Unstructured Information Management 
Architecture framework that allows efficient use of existing NLP components. Our 
system produced an F-score of 0.961 for AAA-case report classification with an 
accuracy of 0.984 for aneurysm size extraction.

PMCID: PMC3845740
PMID: 24303276


724. Springerplus. 2013 Nov 15;2:610. doi: 10.1186/2193-1801-2-610. eCollection
2013.

Effects of health on changing labor force participation in Pakistan.

Mushtaq A(1), Mohsin A, Zaman K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Management Sciences, COMSATS Institute of Information 
Technology, Abbottabad, Pakistan.

ABSTRACT: The objective of the study investigates the effects of health on 
changing labor force participation during Pakistan's economic transition in the 
1980s, a period of several economic liberalization and international integration 
on the health and financial sectors. The study employed the autoregressive 
distributed lag (ARDL) co-integration technique to estimate the short- and 
long-run elasticities, while the Wald coefficient restrictions tests was used to 
determine the dynamic short-run causality between the variables over a period of 
1975-2011. The study was limited to a few variables, including age dependency, 
health expenditures, trade openness, population per bed, life expectancy, gross 
capital formation, mortality rate, secondary school enrolment and labor force 
participation rate, in order to manage robust data analysis. The results suggest 
that infant mortality rate (IMR), gross capital formation (GCF) and secondary 
school enrolment (SSE) decrease the labor force participation rate in the 
long-run, as if there is one percent increase IMR, GCF and SSE, labor force 
participation decreases by 0.653 percent, 0.137 percent and 0.220 percent 
respectively, however, these results invert the relationship in short-run. The 
study also finds that health expenditures has positive and significant impact on 
labor force participation rate in the short-run, but this result disappear in 
the long-run. Trade liberalization has a positive effect in the short run, while 
a negative effect is observed in the long run upon labor force participation 
rate of Pakistan. The study confirms that Pakistan did not enjoy substantial 
growth benefits related to health care because human capital (secondary school 
enrolment), trade openness, public investment and infant mortality rate have a 
negative impact on labor force participation rate. These findings have important 
policy implications.
JEL CODES: H51, I21, J21.

DOI: 10.1186/2193-1801-2-610
PMCID: PMC3843503
PMID: 24303337


725. Anaesthesia. 2014 Jan;69 Suppl 1:17-25. doi: 10.1111/anae.12489.

Pre-operative co-morbidity and postoperative survival in the elderly: beyond one 
lunar orbit.

Carlisle JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Anaesthetic Department, Torbay Hospital, Torquay, Devon, UK.

Mortality is a good measure of killing, but it is a poor measure of cure, 
palliation or the maintenance of function. Nevertheless, it has remained the 
primary metric of hospital care for 200 years. This article discusses the 
factors that contribute to mortality risk and survival trajectories, as well as 
the increasing recognition that surgery kills for months after the last suture 
is tied. This article discusses how disparate factors can usefully combine to 
generate an 'elderly' group with a monthly mortality in excess of 1% and a 
median life expectancy less than 3.5 years. A downloadable spreadsheet is 
provided that combines risk factors to generate mortality risks and their 
associated survival curves, emphasising the importance of looking beyond one 
postoperative month.

© 2013 The Association of Anaesthetists of Great Britain and Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/anae.12489
PMID: 24303857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Am J Manag Care. 2013 Sep;19(9):709-16.

Improving BP control through electronic communications: an economic evaluation.

Fishman PA(1), Cook AJ, Anderson ML, Ralston JD, Catz SL, Carrell D, Carlson J, 
Green BB.

Author information:
(1)Group Health Cooperative, Group Health Research Institute, 1730 Minor Ave, 
Seattle, WA 98101. E-mail: fishman.p@ghc.org.

BACKGROUND: Web-based collaborative approaches to managing chronic illness show 
promise for both improving health outcomes and increasing the efficiency of the 
healthcare system.
OBJECTIVE: Analyze the cost-effectiveness of the Electronic Communications and 
Home Blood Pressure Monitoring to Improve Blood Pressure Control (e-BP) study, a 
randomized controlled trial that used a patient-shared electronic medical 
record, home blood pressure (BP) monitoring, and web-based pharmacist care to 
improve BP control (<140/90 mm Hg).
STUDY DESIGN: Incremental cost-effectiveness analysis conducted from a health 
plan perspective.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness of home BP monitoring and web-based pharmacist care 
estimated for percent change in patients with controlled BP and cost per mm Hg 
in diastolic and systolic BP relative to usual care and home BP monitoring 
alone.
RESULTS: A 1% improvement in number of patients with controlled BP using home BP 
monitoring and web-based pharmacist care-the e-BP program-costs $16.65 (95% 
confidence interval: 15.37- 17.94) relative to home BP monitoring and web 
training alone. Each mm HG reduction in systolic and diastolic BP achieved 
through the e-BP program costs $65.29 (59.91-70.67) relativeto home BP 
monitoring and web tools only. Life expectancy was increased at an incremental 
cost of $1850 (1635-2064) and $2220 (1745-2694) per year of life saved for men 
and women, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Web-based collaborative care can be used to achieve BP control at a 
relatively low cost. Future research should examine the cost impact of potential 
long-term clinical improvements.

PMCID: PMC3938103
PMID: 24304254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Author Disclosures: The authors (PAF, AJC, MLA, 
JDR, SLC, DC, JC, BBG) report no relationship or financial interest with any 
entity that would pose a conflict of interest with the subject matter of this 
article.


727. Clin Physiol Funct Imaging. 2014 Nov;34(6):463-70. doi: 10.1111/cpf.12117.
Epub  2013 Dec 4.

Effect of very low-intensity resistance training with slow movement on muscle 
size and strength in healthy older adults.

Watanabe Y(1), Madarame H, Ogasawara R, Nakazato K, Ishii N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

We previously reported that low-intensity [50% of one repetition maximum (1RM)] 
resistance training with slow movement and tonic force generation (LST) causes 
muscle hypertrophy and strength gain in older participants. The aim of this 
study was to determine whether resistance training with slow movement and much 
more reduced intensity (30%1RM) increases muscle size and strength in older 
adults. Eighteen participants (60-77 years) were randomly assigned to two 
groups. One group performed very low-intensity (30% 1RM) knee extension exercise 
with continuous muscle contraction (LST: 3-s eccentric, 3-s concentric, and 1-s 
isometric actions with no rest between each repetition) twice a week for 12 
weeks. The other group underwent intermitted muscle contraction (CON: 1-s 
concentric and 1-s eccentric actions with 1-s rest between each repetition) for 
the same time period. The 1RM, isometric and isokinetic strengths, and 
cross-sectional image of the mid-thigh obtained by magnetic resonance imaging 
were examined before and after the intervention. LST significantly increased the 
cross-sectional area of the quadriceps muscle (5.0%, P<0.001) and isometric and 
isokinetic knee extension strengths (P<0.05). CON failed to increase muscle size 
(1.1%, P = 0.12), but significantly improved its strength (P<0.05). These 
results indicate that even if the intensity is as low as 30% 1RM, LST can 
increase muscle size and strength in healthy older adults. The large total 
contraction time may be related to muscle hypertrophy and strength gain. LST 
would be useful for preventing sarcopenia in older individuals.

© 2013 Scandinavian Society of Clinical Physiology and Nuclear Medicine. 
Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cpf.12117
PMID: 24304680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Nature. 2013 Dec 5;504(7478):33. doi: 10.1038/504033e.

Fifty years: Doctor Who and the ageing enigma.

Ali FR(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Manchester, UK.

DOI: 10.1038/504033e
PMID: 24305142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Continuum (Minneap Minn). 2013 Dec;19(6 Muscle Disease):1509-34. doi: 
10.1212/01.CON.0000440658.03557.f1.

Congenital muscular dystrophies and congenital myopathies.

Iannaccone ST, Castro D.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The purpose of this review is to provide information 
regarding the diagnosis and natural history of some very rare disorders: 
congenital muscular dystrophies and congenital myopathies. Patients with these 
conditions share characteristics such as early onset of weakness and severe 
hypotonia. Other organs such as the brain, eyes, and skin may be involved. 
Diagnosis depends largely on recognition of phenotype, muscle biopsy, and 
mutation analysis.
RECENT FINDINGS: More than 30 genes have been associated with these diseases, 
most of which have only been recognized in the past decade. Increasing 
availability of DNA analysis has been important in decreasing delay in 
diagnosis.
SUMMARY: Patients with congenital muscular dystrophy or congenital myopathy are 
at high risk of complications including restrictive lung disease, orthopedic 
deformities, seizures, cardiomyopathy, and malignant hyperthermia. Life 
expectancy varies with the severity of complications. Having an accurate and 
specific diagnosis allows the neurologist to carry out anticipatory guidance and 
appropriate monitoring. New hope exists for experimental treatments for 
congenital muscular dystrophy and congenital myopathy as our understanding of 
pathogenesis evolves.

DOI: 10.1212/01.CON.0000440658.03557.f1
PMCID: PMC10564049
PMID: 24305446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Am J Epidemiol. 2014 Feb 15;179(4):507-12. doi: 10.1093/aje/kwt287. Epub
2013  Dec 3.

Epidemiologic implications of asymptomatic reinfection: a mathematical modeling 
study of norovirus.

Lopman B, Simmons K, Gambhir M, Vinjé J, Parashar U.

The pathogenicity of norovirus is definitively established. However, norovirus 
is frequently detected in the stool of healthy individuals. To gain 
understanding of the apparent high prevalence of asymptomatic infection, we 
analyzed a dynamic transmission model of norovirus infection, disease, and 
immunity. We simulated norovirus epidemiology in low- and high-transmission 
settings by varying the basic reproduction number (R0). We predicted annual 
disease incidence values in children aged 0-4 years of 25% with a low R0 and 29% 
with a high R0. However, the point prevalence of asymptomatic infection rose 
sharply from 3% to 48% from the low to high R0 settings. Among older children 
and adults, the models projected that incidence of disease would rise from 6% to 
16% from the low to high R0 settings, whereas asymptomatic infection prevalence 
was lower in this age group. Asymptomatic prevalence of norovirus can change 
dramatically with small changes in R0. The ratio of prevalence in cases to 
controls could be high in a developed country and close to or even less than 1 
in a high-exposure setting, despite similar disease incidence. These findings 
highlight an important limitation of case-control studies for pathogens for 
which there is suboptimal diagnostic specificity.

DOI: 10.1093/aje/kwt287
PMID: 24305574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. BMC Med. 2013 Dec 4;11:254. doi: 10.1186/1741-7015-11-254.

Can breastfeeding promote child health equity? A comprehensive analysis of 
breastfeeding patterns across the developing world and what we can learn from 
them.

Roberts TJ, Carnahan E, Gakidou E(1).

Author information:
(1)The Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation (IHME), University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA 98121, USA. gakidou@uw.edu.

Comment in
    BMC Med. 2013;11:261.

BACKGROUND: In 2010 more than 7.7 million children died before their fifth 
birthday. Over 98% of these deaths occurred in developing countries, and recent 
estimates have attributed hundreds of thousands of these deaths to suboptimal 
breastfeeding.
METHODS: This study estimated prevalence of suboptimal breastfeeding for 137 
developing countries from 1990 to 2010. These estimates were compared against 
WHO infant feeding recommendations and combined with effect sizes from existing 
literature to estimate associated disease burden using a standard comparative 
risk assessment approach. These prevalence estimates were disaggregated by 
wealth quintile and linked with child mortality rates to assess how improved 
rates of breastfeeding may affect child health inequalities.
RESULTS: In 2010, the prevalence of exclusive breastfeeding ranged from 3.5% in 
Djibouti to 77.3% in Rwanda. The proportion of child Disability Adjusted Life 
Years (DALYs) attributable to suboptimal breastfeeding is 7.6% at the global 
level and as high as 20.2% in Swaziland. Suboptimal breastfeeding is a leading 
childhood risk factor in all developing countries and consistently ranks higher 
than water and sanitation. Within most countries, breastfeeding prevalence rates 
do not vary considerably across wealth quintiles.
CONCLUSIONS: Breastfeeding is an effective child health intervention that does 
not require extensive health system infrastructure. Improvements in rates of 
exclusive and continued breastfeeding can contribute to the reduction of child 
mortality inequalities in developing countries.

DOI: 10.1186/1741-7015-11-254
PMCID: PMC3896843
PMID: 24305597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Fortschr Neurol Psychiatr. 2013 Dec;81(12):679-88. doi:
10.1055/s-0033-1355924.  Epub 2013 Dec 4.

[Legal ramifications of medical end-of-life decisions in dementia--orientational 
certainty through the latest decisions of the German Supreme Court?].

[Article in German]

Kratz T(1), Vogel R, Eberling J, Tröster M.

Author information:
(1)Abt. für Psychiatrie, Psychotherapie und Psychosomatik, Funktionsbereich 
Gerontopsychiatrie, Evangelisches Krankenhaus Königin Elisabeth Herzberge, 
Berlin.

Taking care of dying people is one of the most difficult obligations of the 
physician, especially if these patients are suffering from dementia and 
accordingly when their current capacity to consent is arguable. In this field, 
numerous ethical and forensic problems arise that have to be considered. Legal 
medical end-of-life decisions that potentially shorten life (Sterbehilfe) are 
divided into two categories: direct "Sterbehilfe" refers to stopping 
life-prolonging measures. Indirect "Sterbehilfe" describes the use of agents to 
alleviate symptoms of a terminally ill patient which may however, shorten life 
expectancy. A physician terminating a patient's life based on his own decision 
and authority of action always acts illegally. This paper describes the current 
discussion on this issue in Germany considering the medical and legal aspects of 
it while focussing on patients suffering from dementia and their ability to form 
and to articulate their own will.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1355924
PMID: 24307086 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Psychooncology. 2014 May;23(5):539-46. doi: 10.1002/pon.3450. Epub 2013 Dec
5.

Physicians' experiences and perspectives regarding the use of continuous 
sedation until death for cancer patients in the context of psychological and 
existential suffering at the end of life.

Anquinet L(1), Rietjens J, van der Heide A, Bruinsma S, Janssens R, Deliens L, 
Addington-Hall J, Smithson WH, Seymour J.

Author information:
(1)VUB-UGent End-of-Life Care Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 
Brussels, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: The use of continuous sedation until death for terminally ill cancer 
patients with unbearable and untreatable psychological and existential suffering 
remains controversial, and little in-depth insight exists into the circumstances 
in which physicians resort to it.
METHODS: Our study was conducted in Belgium, the Netherlands, and the UK in 
hospitals, PCUs/hospices, and at home. We held interviews with 35 physicians 
most involved in the care of cancer patients who had psychological and 
existential suffering and had been continuously sedated until death.
RESULTS: In the studied countries, three groups of patients were distinguished 
regarding the origin of their psychological and existential suffering. The first 
group had preexisting psychological problems before they became ill, the second 
developed psychological and existential suffering during their disease 
trajectory, and the third presented psychological symptoms that were 
characteristic of their disease. Before they resorted to the use of sedation, 
physicians reported that they had considered an array of pharmacological and 
psychological interventions that were ineffective or inappropriate to relieve 
this suffering. Necessary conditions for using sedation in this context were for 
most physicians the presence of refractory symptoms, a short life expectancy, 
and an explicit patient request for sedation.
CONCLUSIONS: Physicians in our study used continuous sedation until death in the 
context of psychological and existential suffering after considering several 
pharmacological and psychological interventions. Further research and debate are 
needed on how and by whom this suffering at the end of life should be best 
treated, taking into account patients' individual preferences.

© 2013 The Authors. Psycho-Oncology published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pon.3450
PMCID: PMC4282582
PMID: 24307235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Jan;32(1):87-99. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0112-z.

Treating idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis with the addition of co-trimoxazole: an 
economic evaluation alongside a randomised controlled trial.

Wilson EC(1), Shulgina L, Cahn AP, Chilvers ER, Parfrey H, Clark AB, Twentyman 
OP, Wilson AM.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Group, University of East Anglia, Norwich, NR4 7TJ, UK, 
ed.wilson@medschl.cam.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis (IPF) is a fibrotic disease of the 
lungs of unknown origin with a poor prognosis. A small trial of co-trimoxazole 
demonstrated improvements in symptoms and functional parameters over a 3-month 
period. We therefore conducted a larger trial with a concurrent economic 
evaluation to investigate this antibiotic further.
METHODS: We report an economic evaluation alongside a multi-centre, randomised, 
placebo-controlled, double-blind trial of 12 months therapy with 960 mg 
co-trimoxazole daily in 181 patients with fibrotic idiopathic interstitial 
pneumonia (IIP). Patients were recruited from 28 university and district 
hospitals in the UK and were aged over 40 years with fibrotic IIP. We report 
costs to the National Health Service (NHS) and society, change in forced vital 
capacity (primary endpoint) and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained, 
incremental cost effectiveness and cost utility ratios over 12 months.
RESULTS: From the perspective of society, mean cost per patient in the 
co-trimoxazole arm was approximately £1177 higher than in the placebo arm, but 
mean QALYs were 0.053 higher yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
£22,012 per QALY gained with a 54.44 % probability of being below £30,000. The 
cost of IPF to UK society in 2011 is tentatively estimated at £124 million, of 
which 13 % is NHS costs, 1 % social services, 2 % patient out-of-pocket costs 
and 84 % lost productivity.
CONCLUSIONS: Given commonly employed thresholds in the UK NHS, on balance 
co-trimoxazole may be a cost-effective treatment for IPF, although there is 
substantial decision uncertainty. However, recent guidance on the use of 
immunosuppressive therapy in IPF patients should be taken into account prior to 
any policy decision.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0112-z
PMID: 24307539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Aging Dis. 2013 Oct 7;4(6):381-4. doi: 10.14336/AD.2013.0400381. eCollection
 2013.

Is bilateral orchiectomy for metastatic prostate cancer treatment associated 
with high cardiovascular risk?

Stamatiou K(1), Stamatopoulou E, Christopoulos G.

Author information:
(1)General Hospital "TZANEIO", Piraeus, Greece.

Cardiovascular disease is one of the most common causes of death worldwide and 
the most usual in the western populations. Although it affects both sexes, it is 
more frequent in males in whom it shortens the average life expectancy. This 
difference has been attributed to the negative effects of testosterone; however, 
recent research showed that this hormone may have protective effects on the 
cardiovascular system. In confirmation to the above current evidence suggests 
that the low levels of testosterone could be associated with an increased CVD 
risk and with an augmentation of morbidity and mortality in males. In the 
present article, we present 2 cases of men with CVD and metastatic prostate 
cancer treated with bilateral orchiectomy who died of acute stroke during the 
perioperational period. The possible association of androgen deprivation with 
cardiovascular disease progression and the consequent risk of stroke are briefly 
discussed.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2013.0400381
PMCID: PMC3843654
PMID: 24307970


736. Biomed Res Int. 2013;2013:390714. doi: 10.1155/2013/390714. Epub 2013 Nov 6.

A combination of radiosurgery and soluble tissue factor enhances vascular 
targeting for experimental glioblastoma.

Tu J(1), Hu Z, Chen Z.

Author information:
(1)Australian School of Advanced Medicine, Macquarie University, 2 Technology 
Place, North Ryde, Sydney, NSW 2109, Australia.

Radiosurgery for glioblastoma is limited to the development of resistance, 
allowing tumor cells to survive and initiate tumor recurrence. Based on our 
previous work that coadministration of tissue factor and lipopolysaccharide 
following radiosurgery selectively induced thrombosis in cerebral arteriovenous 
malformations, achieving thrombosis of 69% of the capillaries and 39% of medium 
sized vessels, we hypothesized that a rapid and selective shutdown of the 
capillaries in glioblastoma vasculature would decrease the delivery of oxygen 
and nutrients, reducing tumor growth, preventing intracranial hypertension, and 
improving life expectancy. Glioblastoma was formed by implantation of GL261 
cells into C57Bl/6 mouse brain. Mice were intravenously injected tissue factor, 
lipopolysaccharide, a combination of both, or placebo 24 hours after 
radiosurgery. Control mice received both agents after sham irradiation. 
Coadministration of tissue factor and lipopolysaccharide led to the formation of 
thrombi in up to 87 ± 8% of the capillaries and 46 ± 4% of medium sized vessels 
within glioblastoma. The survival rate of mice in this group was 80% versus no 
survivor in placebo controls 30 days after irradiation. Animal body weight 
increased with time in this group (r = 0.88, P = 0.0001). Thus, radiosurgery 
enhanced treatment with tissue factor, and lipopolysaccharide selectively 
induces thrombosis in glioblastoma vasculature, improving life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/390714
PMCID: PMC3838847
PMID: 24307995 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Caring. 2013 Sep;32(7):52-3.

Alzheimer's in those with Down's syndrome.

Carson VB(1).

Author information:
(1)C&V Senior Care Specialists. vcars10@verizon.net

PMID: 24308164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Coll Antropol. 2013 Sep;37(3):1019-25.

Biomedical psychiatry and its concealed metaphors: an anthropological 
perspective.

Martínez-Hernáez A(1).

Author information:
(1)Rovira i Virgili University, Department of Anthropology, Tarragona, Spain. 
angel.martinez@urv.cat

The idea that power relations structure social life is self-evident to most 
anthropologists. Western medical knowledge or biomedicine, and by extension 
science or scientific knowledge, however, has until relatively recently been 
exempt from anthropological scrutiny in political terms. An understanding of 
biomedicine as a system of knowledge that is not a copy of facts but a 
representation of them has entailed a break with the traditional separation of 
folk knowledge and scientific knowledge in anthropology, making it possible to 
include biomedicine in the repertoire of ethnographic objects. The peculiarity 
of biomedicine as a cultural system, seen from this perspective, lies in a 
paradox: its self-characterization as a set of non-ideological discourses and 
practices is a representation that conceals its ideological and power-saturated 
nature. Through an analysis of DSM-IV-TR, this article explores some of the 
representational strategies through which this concealment takes place in 
biomedical psychiatry: the asocial and universal character of mental illness 
categories; the neutrality of clinical practice; and the non-moral nature of 
clinical criteria and judgment. These are concealed metaphors in the true sense, 
for not only do they speak of something without naming it but they also deny 
their own existence as metaphors.

PMID: 24308254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. BMC Cancer. 2013 Dec 5;13:579. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-579.

Estimating the lifelong health impact and financial burdens of different types 
of lung cancer.

Yang SC(1), Lai WW, Su WC, Wu SY, Chen HH, Wu YL, Hung MC, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung University Medical 
College and Hospital, 138 Sheng Li Road, Tainan 70403, Taiwan. 
jdwang121@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Owing to the high mortality and rapidly growing costs related to 
lung cancer, it is worth examining the health benefits of prevention for major 
types of lung cancer. This study attempts to quantify the quality-adjusted life 
expectancy (QALE), loss-of-QALE, and lifetime healthcare expenditures of 
patients with different pathological types of lung cancer.
METHODS: A national cohort consisting of 66,535 patients with pathologically 
verified lung cancer was followed for 13 years (1998-2010) to obtain the 
survival function, which was further extrapolated to lifetime. Between 2011 and 
2012, EuroQol 5-dimension questionnaires were used to measure the quality of 
life (QoL) for 1,314 consecutive, cross-sectional samples. After multiplying the 
lifetime survival function by the utility values of QoL, we estimated the QALE 
and loss-of-QALE. We also collected the monthly healthcare expenditures, which 
included National Health Insurance-reimbursed and out-of-pocket direct medical 
costs, for 2,456 patients from 2005 to 2012. These values were multiplied by the 
corresponding survival probabilities to calculate lifetime healthcare 
expenditures after adjustments with medical care inflation rates and annual 
discount rates.
RESULTS: The QALE for patients with small cell lung cancer, squamous cell 
carcinoma, and adenocarcinoma were 1.21, 2.37, and 3.03 quality-adjusted life 
year (QALY), with the corresponding loss-of-QALE of 13.69, 12.22, and 15.03 
QALY, respectively. The lifetime healthcare expenditures were US$ 
18,455 ± 1,137, 20,599 ± 1,787, and 36,771 ± 1,998, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The lifelong health impact and financial burdens in Taiwan are 
heavier for adenocarcinoma than for squamous cell carcinoma. The 
cost-effectiveness of prevention programs could be directly compared with that 
of treatment strategies to improve patient value. And the methodology could be 
applied to other chronic diseases for resources planning of healthcare services.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-13-579
PMCID: PMC4234193
PMID: 24308346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


740. J Med Econ. 2014 Feb;17(2):111-24. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.873044. Epub
2014  Jan 13.

Bendamustine-rituximab: a cost-utility analysis in first-line treatment of 
indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma in England and Wales.

Dewilde S(1), Woods B, Castaigne JG, Parker C, Dunlop W.

Author information:
(1)SHE , Brussels , Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of bendamustine-rituximab (B-R) 
compared with CHOP-R (cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, vincristine, prednisone, 
rituximab) and CVP-R (cyclophosphamide, vincristine, prednisone, rituximab) as 
first-line treatment for patients with advanced indolent non-Hodgkin's lymphoma 
(NHL).
METHODS: A patient-level simulation was adapted from the model used by the 
University of Sheffield School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR) in a 
health technology appraisal of rituximab for first-line treatment of follicular 
lymphoma. This approach allowed modelling of the complex treatment pathways in 
indolent NHL. Data from a Phase 3 randomized, open-label trial were used to 
compare B-R with CHOP-R. The relative efficacy of CHOP-R and CVP-R was estimated 
using an indirect treatment comparison similar to the original ScHARR approach. 
The analysis was conducted from the perspective of the National Health Service 
in England and Wales, using a lifetime time horizon. A number of one-way 
sensitivity and scenario analyses were conducted, including one using recently 
published data comparing CVP-R with CHOP-R.
RESULTS: The deterministic incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was £5249 
per quality adjusted life year (QALY) for B-R vs CHOP-R, and £8092 per QALY for 
B-R vs CVP-R. The alternative scenario using direct data comparing CVP-R with 
CHOP-R approximately halved the ICER for B-R vs CVP-R to £4733. Owing to its 
better toxicity profile, B-R reduced the cost of treating adverse events by over 
£1000 per patient vs CHOP-R.
LIMITATIONS: The main limitations were: immaturity of overall survival data from 
the Phase 3 trial; reliance on quality-of-life data from previous health 
technology appraisals (as this was not collected in the trial); and a lack of 
direct evidence or a network of connected evidence comparing B-R with CVP-R.
CONCLUSIONS: The ICERs for B-R vs CHOP-R and CVP-R were considerably below the 
thresholds normally regarded as cost-effective in England and Wales 
(£20,000-30,000 per QALY).

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.873044
PMID: 24308372 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Asian J Endosc Surg. 2013 Nov;6(4):318-21. doi: 10.1111/ases.12043.

Pure laparoscopic posterior sectionectomy for liver metastasis resulting from 
choroidal malignant melanoma: a case report.

Umemura A(1), Nitta H, Sasaki A, Takahara T, Hasegawa Y, Wakabayashi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Iwate Medical University, Morioka, Japan.

Liver metastases resulting from primary choroidal malignant melanomas occur 
frequently and have a poor prognosis. As a result of advancements in 
multidisciplinary approaches, life expectancy can be increased when R0 resection 
is possible. Herein we report the surgical outcomes of pure laparoscopic 
posterior sectionectomy (PLPS) in a patient with a solitary liver metastasis 
resulting from choroidal malignant melanoma. The subject was a 46-year-old 
Japanese man who had received radiotherapy for primary right choroidal malignant 
melanoma 2 years before presenting at our hospital; he subsequently underwent 
ophthalmectomy as a result of the relapse. During follow-up, CT revealed a 
metastatic lesion in the liver S7, and interventional treatments were performed 
sequentially. The lesion still showed a tendency to enlarge, so we performed 
PLPS. On postoperative day 7, the patient was discharged from the hospital, and 
he started to receive adjuvant chemotherapy 2 weeks after PLPS. Although PLPS is 
deemed to be difficult for lesions in the upper part or posterior segment of the 
liver, we performed this modality safely.

© 2013 Japan Society for Endoscopic Surgery, Asia Endosurgery Task Force and 
Wiley Publishing Asia Pty Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ases.12043
PMID: 24308594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Int J Food Microbiol. 2014 Feb 3;171:32-40. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.11.011. Epub 2013 Nov 18.

Antimicrobial and antioxidant effects of spice extracts on the shelf life 
extension of raw chicken meat.

Radha krishnan K(1), Babuskin S(1), Azhagu Saravana Babu P(1), Sasikala M(1), 
Sabina K(1), Archana G(1), Sivarajan M(2), Sukumar M(3).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Biotechnology, A.C.Tech., Anna University, Chennai 25, India.
(2)Chemical Engineering Division, Central Leather Research Institute, Chennai 
20, India.
(3)Centre for Biotechnology, A.C.Tech., Anna University, Chennai 25, India. 
Electronic address: sukumaractech@gmail.com.

The antimicrobial and antioxidant effects of different spice extracts in raw 
chicken meat during storage for 15 days at 4 °C were studied. Raw chicken meat 
was treated with BHT (positive control), Syzygium aromaticum (SA), Cinnmomum 
cassia (CC), Origanum vulgare (OV), and Brassica nigra (BN) extracts and the 
different combinations as well as the results were compared to raw chicken meat 
without any additive (negative control). The antioxidant and antimicrobial 
activities of spice extracts were determined. Total phenolic contents and 
flavonoid contents were ranged from 14.09 ± 0.78 to 24.65 ± 0.83 mg of GAE/g and 
7.07 ± 0.15 to 12.13 ± 0.24 mg of quercetin/g, respectively. The pH, 
instrumental color (CIE L*, a*, b*), total viable counts (TVC), Lactic Acid 
Bacteria (LAB) counts, Enterobacteriaceae counts, Pseudomonas spp. counts and 
2-thiobarbituric acid reactive substances (TBARS) were determined at a gap of 3 
days interval for a period of 15 days. The bacterial counts of 
T-W-SA+T-W-CC+T-W-OV samples were lower than control samples during storage. 
T-W-SA+T-W-CC+T-W-OV samples maintained significantly (P<0.05) higher L*, a* and 
b* values while storing. The TBARS values of T-W-SA+T-W-CC+T-W-OV samples were 
lowest among the samples. These results show that spice extracts are very 
effective against microbial growth, lipid oxidation and has potential as a 
natural antioxidant in raw chicken meats.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2013.11.011
PMID: 24308943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


743. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Dec;17(57):1-140. doi: 10.3310/hta17570.

A high-dose preparation of lactobacilli and bifidobacteria in the prevention of 
antibiotic-associated and Clostridium difficile diarrhoea in older people 
admitted to hospital: a multicentre, randomised, double-blind, 
placebo-controlled, parallel arm trial (PLACIDE).

Allen SJ(1), Wareham K, Wang D, Bradley C, Sewell B, Hutchings H, Harris W, Dhar 
A, Brown H, Foden A, Gravenor MB, Mack D, Phillips CJ.

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, Swansea University, Swansea, UK.

Comment in
    Praxis (Bern 1994). 2013 Dec 31;103(1):51-2.
    Ann Intern Med. 2014 Jun 17;160(12):JC6.

BACKGROUND: Antibiotic-associated diarrhoea (AAD) occurs most commonly in older 
people admitted to hospital and within 12 weeks of exposure to broad-spectrum 
antibiotics. Although usually a mild and self-limiting illness, the 15-39% of 
cases caused by Clostridium difficile infection [C. difficile diarrhoea (CDD)] 
may result in severe diarrhoea and death. Previous research has shown that 
probiotics, live microbial organisms that, when administered in adequate 
numbers, are beneficial to health, may be effective in preventing AAD and CDD.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of a 
high-dose, multistrain probiotic in the prevention of AAD and CDD in older 
people admitted to hospital.
DESIGN: A multicentre, randomised, double-blind, placebo-controlled, 
parallel-arm trial.
SETTING: Medical, surgical and elderly care inpatient wards in five NHS 
hospitals in the UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Eligible patients were aged ≥ 65 years, were exposed to one or 
more oral or parenteral antibiotics and were without pre-existing diarrhoeal 
disorders, recent CDD or at risk of probiotic adverse effects. Out of 17,420 
