the 2008 financial crisis. Although Estonia has managed the downturn quite 
successfully and overall satisfaction with the system remains high, it is hard 
to predict the longer-term effects of the austerity package. The latter included 
some cuts in benefits and prices, increased cost sharing for certain services, 
extended waiting times, and a reduction in specialized care. In terms of health 
outcomes, important progress was made in life expectancy, which is nearing the 
European Union (EU) average, and infant mortality. Improvements are necessary in 
smoking and alcohol consumption, which are linked to the majority of avoidable 
diseases. Although the health behaviour of the population is improving, large 
disparities between groups exist and obesity rates, particularly among young 
people, are increasing. In health care, the burden of out-of-pocket payments is 
still distributed towards vulnerable groups. Furthermore, the number of 
hospitals, hospital beds and average length of stay has decreased to the EU 
average level, yet bed occupancy rates are still below EU averages and 
efficiency advances could be made. Going forwards, a number of pre-crisis 
challenges remain. These include ensuring sustainability of health care 
financing, guaranteeing a sufficient level of human resources, prioritizing 
patient-centred health care, integrating health and social care services, 
implementing intersectoral action to promote healthy behaviour, safeguarding 
access to health care for lower socioeconomic groups, and, lastly, improving 
evaluation and monitoring tools across the health system.

World Health Organization 2013 (acting as the host organization for, and 
secretariat of, the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies).

PMID: 24334730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


815. Health Syst Transit. 2013;15(7):1-292.

Austria: health system review.

Hofmarcher MM(1), Quentin W(2).

Author information:
(1)European Centre for Social Welfare Policy and Research.
(2)Berlin University of Technology and European Observatory on Health Systems 
and Policies.

This analysis of the Austrian health system reviews recent developments in 
organization and governance, health financing, health-care provision, health 
reforms and health-system performance. The Austrian health system provides 
universal coverage for a wide range of benefits and high-quality care. Free 
choice of providers and unrestricted access to all care levels (general 
practitioners, specialist physicians and hospitals) are characteristic features 
of the system. Unsurprisingly, population satisfaction is well above EU average. 
Income-related inequality in health has increased since 2005, although it is 
still relatively low compared to other countries. The health-care system has 
been shaped by both the federal structure of the state and a tradition of 
delegating responsibilities to self-governing stakeholders. On the one hand, 
this enables decentralized planning and governance, adjusted to local norms and 
preferences. On the other hand, it also leads to fragmentation of 
responsibilities and frequently results in inadequate coordination. For this 
reason, efforts have been made for several years to achieve more joint planning, 
governance and financing of the health-care system at the federal and regional 
level. As in any health system, a number of challenges remain. The costs of the 
health-care system are well above the EU15 average, both in absolute terms and 
as a percentage of GDP. There are important structural imbalances in healthcare 
provision, with an oversized hospital sector and insufficient resources 
available for ambulatory care and preventive medicine. This is coupled with 
stark regional differences in utilization, both in curative services (hospital 
beds and specialist physicians) and preventative services such as preventive 
health check-ups, outpatient rehabilitation, psychosocial and psychotherapeutic 
care and nursing. There are clear social inequalities in the use of medical 
services, such as preventive health check-ups, immunization or dentistry. One of 
the key weaknesses of the health-care system is in the prevention of illness. 
Spending on preventive medicine, at 2% of total health spending, is 
significantly lower than the EU15 and OECD average (both 3%), and also shows a 
below-average rate of growth. It remains to be seen whether the focus on health 
promotion and prevention of the 'framework health goals' approved in 2012 will 
be translated into concrete measures, whether clear responsibilities for 
implementation can be assigned, and whether sufficient funding will be made 
available. This would be likely to improve the health of the Austrian population 
and would help to reduce costs associated with preventable diseases.

World Health Organization 2013 (acting as the host organization for, and 
secretariat of, the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies).

PMID: 24334772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


816. Am J Clin Nutr. 2014 Mar;99(3):446-53. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.113.062018. Epub
2013  Dec 11.

Potential effect of salt reduction in processed foods on health.

Hendriksen MA(1), Hoogenveen RT, Hoekstra J, Geleijnse JM, Boshuizen HC, van 
Raaij JM.

Author information:
(1)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, 
Netherlands (MAHH, RTH, JH, HCB, and JMAvR), and the Division of Human 
Nutrition, Wageningen University, Wageningen, Netherlands (JMG, HCB, and JMAvR).

Comment in
    Am J Clin Nutr. 2014 Jul;100(1):297-8.
    Am J Clin Nutr. 2014 Jul;100(1):298-9.

BACKGROUND: Excessive salt intake has been associated with hypertension and 
increased cardiovascular disease morbidity and mortality. Reducing salt intake 
is considered an important public health strategy in the Netherlands.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to evaluate the health benefits of salt-reduction 
strategies related to processed foods for the Dutch population.
DESIGN: Three salt-reduction scenarios were developed: 1) substitution of 
high-salt foods with low-salt foods, 2) a reduction in the sodium content of 
processed foods, and 3) adherence to the recommended maximum salt intake of 6 
g/d. Health outcomes were obtained in 2 steps: after salt intake was modeled 
into blood pressure levels, the Chronic Disease Model was used to translate 
modeled blood pressures into incidences of cardiovascular diseases, 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), and life expectancies. Health outcomes 
of the scenarios were compared with health outcomes obtained with current salt 
intake.
RESULTS: In total, 4.8% of acute myocardial infarction cases, 1.7% of congestive 
heart failure cases, and 5.8% of stroke cases might be prevented if salt intake 
meets the recommended maximum intake. The burden of disease might be reduced by 
56,400 DALYs, and life expectancy might increase by 0.15 y for a 40-y-old 
individual. Substitution of foods with comparable low-salt alternatives would 
lead to slightly higher salt intake reductions and thus to more health gain. The 
estimates for sodium reduction in processed foods would be slightly lower.
CONCLUSION: Substantial health benefits might be achieved when added salt is 
removed from processed foods and when consumers choose more low-salt food 
alternatives.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.113.062018
PMID: 24335058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


817. Hum Vaccin Immunother. 2014;10(3):693-9. doi: 10.4161/hv.27374. Epub 2013
Dec  11.

Long-term silencing of autoimmune diabetes and improved life expectancy by a 
soluble pHLA-DR4 chimera in a newly-humanized NOD/DR4/B7 mouse.

Pow Sang L(1), Majji S(2), Casares S(3), Brumeanu TD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine; Division of Immunology; F. Edward Herbert School of 
Medicine; Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences; Bethesda, MD 
USA.
(2)Naval Medical Research Center; Walter Reed Army Institute of Research; 
Infectious Diseases Directorate-Malaria Program; Silver Spring, MD USA.
(3)Department of Medicine; Division of Immunology; F. Edward Herbert School of 
Medicine; Uniformed Services University of the Health Sciences; Bethesda, MD 
USA; Naval Medical Research Center; Walter Reed Army Institute of Research; 
Infectious Diseases Directorate-Malaria Program; Silver Spring, MD USA.

Several human MHC class II (HLA) molecules are strongly associated with high 
incidence of autoimmune diseases including type 1 diabetes (T1D). The 
HLA-humanized mice may thus represent valuable tools to test HLA-based vaccines 
and therapeutics for human autoimmune diseases. Herein, we have tested the 
therapeutic potential of a soluble HLA-DR4-GAD65 271-280 (hu DEF-GAD65) chimera 
of human use in a newly-generated NOD/DR4/B7 double transgenic (dTg) mouse that 
develops spontaneously an accelerated T1D regardless the gender. The NOD/DR4/B7 
dTg mice generated by a two-step crossing protocol express the HLA-DR*0401 
molecules on 20% of antigen presenting cells, the human B7 molecules in 
pancreas, and HLA-DR4/GAD65-specific T-cells in the blood. Some 75% of 
pre-diabetic NOD/DR4/B7 dTg mice treated with hu DEF-GAD65 chimera remained 
euglycemic and showed a stabilized pancreatic insulitis 6 months after 
treatment. The 25% non responders developing hyperglycemia survived 3-4 months 
longer than their untreated littermates. T1D prevention by this reagent occurred 
by a Th2/TR-1 polarization in the pancreas. This study strongly suggests that 
the use of soluble pHLA reagents to suppress/stabilize the T1D progression and 
to extend the life expectancy in the absence of side effects is an efficient and 
safe therapeutic approach.

DOI: 10.4161/hv.27374
PMCID: PMC4130268
PMID: 24335553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


818. J Aging Health. 2014 Mar;26(2):207-30. doi: 10.1177/0898264313513609. Epub
2013  Dec 10.

Fifteen-year disability trends among older persons in the Beijing municipality 
of China.

Zimmer Z(1), Fang X, Tang Z.

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to examine disability trends among men and 
women aged 70+ in Beijing, China; determine whether trends are impacted upon by 
changes in population composition; and investigate whether trends are 
experienced similarly across socio-demographic subgroups.
METHOD: Fifteen-year panel data were used to model probability of reporting 
activities of daily living (ADLs) disability adjusting for age, sex, marital 
status, residence, and education. Predicted probabilities and average annual 
percent change in probabilities are reported.
RESULTS: The results showed increasing disability trends experienced by men, and 
stable or decreasing trends by women. Trends would be less favorable had 
education of older population not increased over time. Trends are much worse 
when bathing is excluded as an ADLs item. This is because trends in bathing were 
favorable whereas trends in other activities were not.
DISCUSSION: On balance, results are not overly encouraging for reductions in 
population-level disability given population aging and increasing life 
expectancy in China. But, future increasing education could mitigate some 
increases in disability rates.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264313513609
PMID: 24336232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


819. Eur J Epidemiol. 2014 Feb;29(2):111-8. doi: 10.1007/s10654-013-9867-y. Epub
2013  Dec 14.

Adult height and risk of ischemic heart disease, atrial fibrillation, stroke, 
venous thromboembolism, and premature death: a population based 36-year 
follow-up study.

Schmidt M(1), Bøtker HE, Pedersen L, Sørensen HT.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Aarhus University Hospital, Olof Palmes 
Allé 43-45, 8200, Aarhus, Denmark, morten.schmidt@dadlnet.dk.

Few studies have associated height with cardiovascular diseases other than 
myocardial infarction. We conducted a population-based 36-year cohort study of 
12,859 men born in 1955 or 1965 whose fitness for military service was assessed 
by Draft Boards in Northern Denmark. Hospital diagnoses for ischemic heart 
diseases, atrial fibrillation, stroke, and venous thromboembolism were obtained 
from the Danish National Patient Registry, covering all Danish hospitals since 
1977. Mortality data were obtained from the Danish Civil Registration System. We 
began follow-up on the 22nd birthday of each subject and continued until 
occurrence of an outcome, emigration, death, or 31 December 2012, whichever came 
first. We used Cox regression to compute hazard ratios (HRs) with 95 % 
confidence intervals (CIs). Compared with short stature, the education-adjusted 
HR among tall men was 0.67 (95 % CI 0.54-0.84) for ischemic heart disease 
(similar for myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, and heart failure), 1.60 
(95 % CI 1.11-2.33) for atrial fibrillation, 1.05 (95 % CI 0.75-1.46) for 
stroke, 1.04 (95 % CI 0.67-1.64) for venous thromboembolism, and 0.70 (95 % CI 
0.58-0.86) for death. In conclusion, short stature was a risk factor for 
ischemic heart disease and premature death, but a protective factor for atrial 
fibrillation. Stature was not substantially associated with stroke or venous 
thromboembolism.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-013-9867-y
PMID: 24337942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


820. Qual Life Res. 2014 Jun;23(5):1445-57. doi: 10.1007/s11136-013-0604-5. Epub
2013  Dec 15.

Using existing data to identify candidate items for a health state 
classification system in multiple sclerosis.

Kuspinar A(1), Finch L, Pickard S, Mayo NE.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, School of Physical and Occupational Therapy, McGill 
University, 3654 Prom Sir William Osler, Montreal, QC, H3G 1Y5, Canada, 
ayse.kuspinar@mail.mcgill.ca.

PURPOSE: In multiple sclerosis (MS), the use of preference-based measures is 
limited to generic measures such as Health Utilities Index Mark 2 and 3, the 
EQ-5D and the SF-6D. However, the challenge of using such generic 
preference-based measures in people with MS is that they may not capture all 
domains of health relevant to the disease. Therefore, the main aim of this paper 
is to describe the development of a health state classification system for MS 
patients. The specific objectives are: (1) to identify items best reflecting the 
domains of quality of life important to people with MS and (2) to provide 
evidence for the discriminative capacity of the response options by 
cross-walking onto a visual analog scale of health rating.
METHODS: The data come from an epidemiologically sampled population of people 
with MS diagnosed post-1994. The dataset consisted of 206 items relating to 
impairments, activity limitations, participation restrictions, health perception 
and quality of life. Important domains were identified from the responses to the 
Patient Generated Index, an individualized measure of quality of life. The 
extent to which the items formed a uni-dimensional, linear construct was 
estimated using Rasch analysis, and the best item was selected using the 
threshold map.
RESULTS: The sample was young (mean age 43) and predominantly female (n = 
140/189; 74%). The P-PBMSI classification system consisted of five items, with 
three response levels per item, producing a total of 243 possible health states. 
Regression coefficient values consistently decreased between response levels and 
the linear test for trend were statistically significant for all items. The 
linear test for trend indicated that for each item the response options provided 
the same discriminative ability within the magnitude of their capacity. A 
scoring algorithm was estimated using a simple additive formula. The 
classification system demonstrated convergent validity against other measures of 
similar constructs and known-groups validity between different clinical 
subgroups.
CONCLUSION: This study produced a health state classifier system based on items 
impacted upon by MS, and demonstrated the potential to discriminate the health 
impact of the disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-013-0604-5
PMID: 24338161 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


821. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Feb;32(2):159-72. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0122-x.

The cost effectiveness of dry powder antibiotics for the treatment of 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa in patients with cystic fibrosis.

Tappenden P(1), Harnan S, Uttley L, Mildred M, Walshaw M, Taylor C, Brownlee K.

Author information:
(1)ScHARR, University of Sheffield, Regent Court, 30 Regent Street, Sheffield, 
S1 4DA, England, p.tappenden@sheffield.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis (CF) affects over 9,000 people in the UK and limits 
life expectancy. CF patients are susceptible to lung infections, most commonly 
Pseudomonas aeruginosa. Once infection is established, patients require lifetime 
treatment using nebulised antibiotics. Newer dry powder formulations of 
antibiotics may reduce treatment burden and improve compliance.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to evaluate the cost effectiveness of (i) 
colistimethate sodium dry powder for inhalation (DPI) and (ii) tobramycin DPI 
versus nebulised tobramycin for the treatment of chronic P. aeruginosa lung 
infection in patients with CF from the perspective of the National Health 
Service (NHS) and Personal Social Services (PSS).
METHODS: We developed a state transition model based on transitions between 
three strata of lung function measured in terms of forced expiratory volume in 1 
second (FEV1) % predicted. Additional health states representing post-lung 
transplantation and dead are also modelled. The model structure was informed by 
systematic reviews of evidence concerning the plausibility of potential 
relationships between intermediate endpoints and final outcomes. The model 
assumes that treatment impacts on FEV1 trajectory, which manifest as changes in 
health-related quality of life. No survival benefit is assumed due to the 
absence of robust quantifiable evidence. Model parameters were informed by 
patient-level and aggregate data from two randomised controlled trials together 
with the best available evidence from the literature. Resource use and costs 
associated with drug acquisition, the management of exacerbations and reduced 
nebuliser maintenance were drawn from reference sources and expert opinion. 
Costs were valued at 2011/2012 prices. Costs and health outcomes were discounted 
at a rate of 3.5 %. Simple and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
undertaken, including additional analyses of Patient Access Scheme (PAS) price 
discounts offered by the manufacturers of both DPI products.
RESULTS: Colistimethate sodium DPI is expected to produce fewer quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) than nebulised tobramycin. Based on its list price, 
colistimethate sodium DPI is expected to be dominated by nebulised tobramycin. 
When the PAS is incorporated, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
for colistimethate sodium DPI versus nebulised tobramycin is expected to be 
approximately £288,600 saved per QALY lost. Based on its current list price, the 
ICER for tobramycin DPI versus nebulised tobramycin is expected to be 
approximately £124,000 per QALY gained. When the proposed PAS is included, 
tobramycin DPI is expected to dominate nebulised tobramycin.
CONCLUSIONS: Under their list prices, neither DPI product is likely to represent 
good value for money for the NHS given current cost-effectiveness thresholds. 
The PAS discounts have a significant impact upon the economic attractiveness of 
both DPI products compared against nebulised tobramycin. The clinical 
effectiveness and cost effectiveness of the DPIs against other nebulised 
antibiotics, such as aztreonam and inhaled colistimethate sodium, remains 
unclear.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0122-x
PMID: 24338264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


822. Front Psychol. 2013 Dec 10;4:865. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00865. eCollection
 2013.

Age does not count: resilience of quantity processing in healthy ageing.

Lambrechts A(1), Karolis V, Garcia S, Obende J, Cappelletti M.

Author information:
(1)Autism Research Group, Department of Psychology, City University London 
London, UK.

Quantity skills have been extensively studied in terms of their development and 
pathological decline. Recently, numerosity discrimination (i.e., how many items 
are in a set) has been shown to be resilient to healthy ageing despite relying 
on inhibitory skills, but whether processing continuous quantities such as time 
and space is equally well-maintained in ageing participants is not known. 
Life-long exposure to quantity-related problems may progressively refine 
proficiency in quantity tasks, or alternatively quantity skills may decline with 
age. In addition, is not known whether the tight relationship between quantity 
dimensions typically shown in their interactions is preserved in ageing. To 
address these questions, two experimental paradigms were used in 38 younger and 
32 older healthy adults who showed typical age-related decline in attention, 
executive function and memory tasks. In both groups we first assessed time and 
space discrimination independently using a two-choice task (i.e., "Which of two 
horizontal lines is longer in duration or extension?"), and found that time and 
space processing were equally accurate in younger and older participants. In a 
second paradigm, we assessed the relation between different quantity dimensions 
which were presented as a dynamic pattern of dots independently changing in 
duration, spatial extension and numerosity. Younger and older participants again 
showed a similar profile of interaction between number, cumulative area and 
duration, although older adults showed a greater sensitivity to task-irrelevant 
information than younger adults in the cumulative area task but lower 
sensitivity in the duration task. Continuous quantity processing seems therefore 
resilient to ageing similar to numerosity and to other non-quantity skills like 
vocabulary or implicit memory; however, ageing might differentially affect 
different quantity dimensions.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2013.00865
PMCID: PMC3857545
PMID: 24339818


823. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 10;8(12):e83396. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083396. 
eCollection 2013.

Economic evaluation of first-line adjuvant chemotherapies for resectable gastric 
cancer patients in China.

Tan C(1), Peng L, Zeng X, Li J, Wan X, Chen G, Yi L, Luo X, Zhao Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, The Second Xiangya Hospital of Central South 
University, Changsha, People's Republic of China ; School of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, Central South University, Changsha, Hunan, People's Republic of China.

BACKGROUND: First-line postoperative adjuvant chemotherapies with S-1 and 
capecitabine and oxaliplatin (XELOX) were first recommended for resectable 
gastric cancer patients in the 2010 and 2011 Chinese NCCN Clinical Practice 
Guidelines in Oncology: Gastric Cancer; however, their economic impact in China 
is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
adjuvant chemotherapy with XELOX, with S-1 and no treatment after a gastrectomy 
with extended (D2) lymph-node dissection among patients with stage II-IIIB 
gastric cancer.
METHODS: A Markov model, based on data from two clinical phase III trials, was 
developed to analyse the cost-effectiveness of patients in the XELOX group, S-1 
group and surgery only (SO) group. The costs were estimated from the perspective 
of Chinese healthcare system. The utilities were assumed on the basis of 
previously published reports. Costs, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER) were calculated with a lifetime 
horizon. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: For the base case, XELOX had the lowest total cost ($44,568) and 
cost-effectiveness ratio ($7,360/QALY). The relative scenario analyses showed 
that SO was dominated by XELOX and the ICERs of S-1 was $58,843/QALY compared 
with XELOX. The one-way sensitivity analysis showed that the most influential 
parameter was the utility of disease-free survival. The probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis predicted a 75.8% likelihood that the ICER for XELOX would 
be less than $13,527 compared with S-1. When ICER was more than $38,000, the 
likelihood of cost-effectiveness achieved by S-1 group was greater than 50%.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that for patients in China with resectable 
disease, first-line adjuvant chemotherapy with XELOX after a D2 gastrectomy is a 
best option comparing with S-1 and SO in view of our current study. In addition, 
S-1 might be a better choice, especially with a higher value of 
willingness-to-pay threshold.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083396
PMCID: PMC3858361
PMID: 24340099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


824. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2013 Apr-Jun;117(2):450-6.

Prenatal diagnosis of gonosomal anomalies: limitations of the FISH method and 
genetic counseling difficulties in 15 cases.

Braha E(1), Martiniuc V, Panzaru M, Caba L, Butnariu L, Onofriescu M, Socolov D, 
Grigore M, Nemescu D, Mihălceanu E, Iliev G, Gorduza EV.

Author information:
(1)Medical Genetics Department, Faculty of Medicine, University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy "Grigore T. Popa'- Iaşi.

Prenatal diagnosis (PD) by FISH or cell culture is today an important tool for 
the prevention of chromosomal anomalies. A difficult issue is prenatal detection 
of gonosomal anomalies. Most gonosomal anomalies neither affect life expectancy 
nor cause psychomotor retardation, but sexualization disorders and the lack of 
reproductive potential are a constant finding.
AIM: This study aimed at identifying the medical problems the specialists and 
the parental couple are faced with at the time of the diagnosis of fetal 
gonosomal anomalies.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This retrospective study (2004-2012) was conducted in the 
Prenatal Genetic Diagnosis Department of "CuzaVoda" Maternity by FISH technique 
in 1685 pregnancies. The AneuVysion probes were used for identifying and 
enumerating chromosomes 13, 18, 21, X, and Y via fluorescence in situ 
hybridization (FISH) in interphase nuclei obtained from amniotic fluid.
RESULTS: Fifteen fetuses were selected in which we were faced with difficulties 
interpreting the number of gonosomes: monosomy X (5 cases), pseudomosaicism 
XX/XY (3), trisomy XXY (3 cases), trisomy XYY (1 case), 45,X/46.XX mosaicism (1 
case) and triploidy XXX (2 cases). Later, by repeating the analysis, 2 cases 
with pseudomosaicism XX/XY were excluded. A case highlighting the limitations of 
the FISH test was that of a fetus in which the FISH test revealed trisomy XXY, 
while postnatal karyotyping showed a six cell line mosaicism (marker and ring X 
chromosomes).
CONCLUSIONS: All parental couples received nondirective genetic counseling, 
respecting the individuals' dignity and rights of self-determination. Parents 
received information on the natural course of the disease, treatment options, 
and psychological support and were involved in their child's recovery.

PMID: 24340530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


825. Rev Med Chir Soc Med Nat Iasi. 2013 Apr-Jun;117(2):495-502.

The third age--a current issue for the family physician.

Brujbu IC(1), Macovei LA, Murariu RV.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Family Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy, "Grigore T. Popa" - Iaşi.

Since our birth, we are programmed to experience predetermined stages of life 
whose passage is inevitable as the passage of time (childhood, youth, adulthood, 
old age). Although each of these stages of development differs in its specific 
tasks, the old age seems to be the most burdensome, resulting in significant 
changes: physical and intellectual decline, major changes in the importance of 
the professional, marital, parental and social role. One of the main indicators 
of the quality of life, the average life expectancy increased significantly in 
the last 3-4 decades and the mankind gained decades of active life in a 
relatively short period of time. Therefore, one of the goals of medicine has 
become the prolongation of life, the pursuit of old age, the wish to remain 
healthy, to be able of physical and intellectual performance and useful in the 
private and social life. The old age is conditioned by a complex combination of 
factors: the individual genetic predisposition, the lifestyle of society and the 
environment, all of which affect the opinions regarding health and subsequently 
the attitude towards health. The family physician has the social obligation to 
research and promote health, to fight diseases. The family physician achieves 
this by researching the aging field and by trying to find solutions to improve 
the quality of life in the elderly, which is a prerequisite of maintaining the 
integration of the elderly into family life and society, of preserving the 
biological and social independence of aged persons. The maintenance of an active 
private and social life is a method of fighting premature aging associated with 
infirmity and disease. This action cannot be successful without the active 
involvement of the elderly and without their acceptance in the society. Aging is 
a biological process that affects the entire body, following the period of 
development and it is considered the final stage of biomorphosis.

PMID: 24340536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


826. Przegl Epidemiol. 2013;67(3):503-7, 599-603.

Objectivity of reimbursement decisions - does it always has to pay off?

[Article in English, Polish]

Kolasa K(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical University of Warsaw, Department of Pharmacoeconomics. 
kkolasa@wum.edu.pl

Rising health care needs impose increased pressure on limited budgets of health 
care systems around the world. Not only life expectancy is improved, but also 
increases awareness of patients on modern treatments. It, as a result, leads to 
the constant search for ways to rationalize health services better attuned to 
the ability to pay.
THE PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Analysis of the pricing and reimbersement criteria 
included in the Polish law.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Based on a literature review to specify criteria for the 
allocation of resources in the health sector and to compare them to those 
included in the "Act on reimbursement of medicines, foodstuffs intended for 
particular nutritional and medical devices".
RESULTS: Economic criteria dominate the rules governing the reimbursement 
process of pharmacotherapy in Poland. Referring to the principle of equity they 
focus on the ability to improve health. Two aspects are repeated frequently: 
cost-effectiveness and impact on payer's budget.
CONCLUSION: Selection of the allocation criteria was carried out in the Polish 
law to a limited extend, which may give rise to difficulties in making objective 
reimbursement decisions.

PMID: 24340569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


827. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2013;(6):4-8. doi: 10.15690/vramn.v68i6.666.

[About the human health safety estimation of ractopamine intake together with 
the food].

[Article in Russian]

Onishchenko GG, Popova AIu, Tutel'ian VA, Zaĭtseva NV, Khotimchenko SA, 
Gmoshinskiĭ IV, Sheveleva SA, Rakitskiĭ VN, Shur PZ, Lisitsyn AB, Kir'ianov DA.

The analysis of scientific data including American and European scientific 
communities concerning use of ractopamine as a growth factor in food animal 
production and the argumentation of the maximum permitted levels of ractopamine 
and levels of ractopamine in meat and byproducts (offal) is carried out. The 
position of the Russian side stated at the Codex Alimentarius commission 35th 
session that acceptable ractopamine daily intake is insufficiently validated and 
cannot be used for the determination of maximum permitted levels of ractopamine 
in meat and byproducts (offal) is confirmed. It is represented that residual 
ractopamine intake together with food on the levels which are recommended by the 
Codex Alimentarius commission and by taking into account the levels of animal 
products consumption in Russian Federation will lead to unacceptable human 
health risk level that will promote increasing heart diseases and life 
expectancy reduction. In this connection Russia states against of acceptance of 
maximum permitted levels of ractopamine in food.

DOI: 10.15690/vramn.v68i6.666
PMID: 24340628 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


828. Gig Sanit. 2013 Sep-Oct;(5):73-5.

[Development of technologies of population health management in Kazakhstan based 
on an integrated assessment of the combined exposure to environmental factors].

[Article in Russian]

Sraubaev EN, Serik B.

At present there is overdue necessity of an integral approach to the assessment 
of health status and the impact of environmental factors on it, in the 
development of science-based management decisions and programs on improvement of 
the health status of the population of Kazakhstan and in the increase in life 
expectancy from the birth and healthy life expectancy. The purpose of the 
proposed program--improving health and increasing life expectancy from the birth 
and healthy life expectancy of the population of Kazakhstan.
OBJECTIVES: Based on a meta-analysis to justify the target age group in which an 
implementation of complex of preventive measures will increase both the life 
expectancy from the birth and healthy life expectancy, to perform a 
comprehensive health screening for the basic classes of diseases and behavioral 
characteristics of the target group in the course of a multicentre studies to 
give a comprehensive hygienic characteristics of the ecological status of the 
studied regions and to develop the Health Passport of the region, to develop a 
model of the combined effects of environmental factors on health; to create a 
theoretical model for the calculation of life expectancy from the birth and 
healthy life expectancy, taking into account the limits of modifiability of 
factors that affect them, and justify a comprehensive program of management 
decisions on modification of factors, to carry out pilot studies on the 
development and validation technological (managemental) solutions to control 
modifiable factors that affect life expectancy from the birth and healthy life 
expectancy.

PMID: 24340917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


829. Future Oncol. 2014 Apr;10(5):845-50. doi: 10.2217/fon.13.269. Epub 2013 Dec
16.

Using cumulative toxicity to identify the optimal second-line targeted therapy 
in patients with metastatic renal cell carcinoma: what's new?

Di Lorenzo G(1), De Placido S.

Author information:
(1)Genitourinary Cancer Section, Federico II University, Naples, Italy.

The life expectancy in metastatic renal cell carcinoma patients treated with 
targeted therapies can be influenced by the time spent on treatment, and the 
current focus of clinical research in this field appears to be on extending the 
time on treatment while limiting toxicities. It has been proposed that a 
strategy based on the sequential administration of two tyrosine kinase 
inhibitors could result in unacceptable cumulative toxicity for many metastatic 
renal cell carcinoma patients, while switching to a mTOR inhibitor does not. 
However, a definite consensus on this issue has not been reached. As very little 
information from head-to-head studies is available, clinicians have to base 
their treatment decisions on existing evidence, with an obvious preference for 
high-quality studies. Some recent studies have provided new insights into the 
issue of cumulative toxicity of second-line targeted therapies in metastatic 
renal cell carcinoma patients. In this article, we discuss the evidence emerging 
from the randomized AXIS and RECORD-3 trials.

DOI: 10.2217/fon.13.269
PMID: 24341421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


830. Obes Rev. 2014 Jan;15 Suppl 1(0 1):8-15. doi: 10.1111/obr.12122.

China in the period of transition from scarcity and extensive undernutrition to 
emerging nutrition-related non-communicable diseases, 1949-1992.

Du SF(1), Wang HJ, Zhang B, Zhai FY, Popkin BM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina, USA.

This study uses unique official data to document nutritional changes in the 
1949-1992 period. In 1949, widespread famine, high mortality and low life 
expectancy dominated. Economic progress was uneven; however, the longer term 
food supply changed greatly, and hunger was conquered. Diet composition shifted 
greatly over this period. Cereal consumption, already high, increased from 541.2 
g d(-1) (70.0% coarse grains) in 1952 to 645.9 g d(-1) (15.9% coarse grains) in 
1992. Consumption of animal-source foods, half of which were pork and pork 
products, tripled from 30.0 to 103.0 g d(-1). The proportion of energy intake 
from fat tripled from 7.6% to 22.5%, and that from carbohydrates decreased from 
83.0% to 65.8% over the same period. Physical activity was high in all domains, 
but shifts were beginning to occur (e.g. the initial mechanization of work and 
the expansion of biking). Nutritional improvement was uneven, including 
increased undernutrition in the 1959-1962 period and a remarkable rebound and 
continued improvement thereafter. Overweight emerged only after 1982. Shifts in 
diet, activity and body composition in 1949-1992 set the stage for major shifts 
in nutrition in the subsequent decades.

© 2014 The Authors. Obesity Reviews published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf 
of the International Association for the Study of Obesity.

DOI: 10.1111/obr.12122
PMCID: PMC3869002
PMID: 24341754 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None of the authors have 
financial disclosures or conflicts of interest.


831. Actas Urol Esp. 2014 Jun;38(5):327-33. doi: 10.1016/j.acuro.2013.10.008.
Epub  2013 Dec 15.

Pre-chemotherapy abiraterone acetate. A proposal of a treatment algorithm in 
castration resistant prostate cancer.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Arrabal-Martín M(1), Anglada-Curado F(2), Cózar-Olmo JM(3), Soler-Martínez J(4), 
Moreno-Jiménez J(5), Castiñeiras-Fernández J(6), Ledo-Cepero MJ(7), 
Beardo-Villar P(8), Requena-Tapia MJ(2), Zuluaga-Gómez A(9); Grupo AAyEU.

Collaborators: Baena-González V, Álvarez-Ossorio Fernández JL, Arrabal-Polo MÁ, 
Juárez-Soto Á, Linares-Armada R, Llorente-Abarca C, Medina-López R, Miñana-López 
B, Rodríguez-Antolín A, Unda-Urzáiz M.

Author information:
(1)UGC de Urología, Hospital Universitario San Cecilio, Instituto de 
Investigación Biosanitaria de Granada, Granada, España. Electronic address: 
arrabalp@ono.com.
(2)UGC de Urología, Hospital Universitario Reina Sofía, Córdoba, España.
(3)UGC de Urología, Hospital Universitario Virgen de las Nieves, Granada, 
España.
(4)UGC de Urología, Hospital Regional Carlos Haya, Málaga, España.
(5)UGC de Urología, Hospital Universitario Ciudad de Jaén, España.
(6)UGC de Urología, Hospital Universitario Macarena, Sevilla, España.
(7)UGC de Urología, Hospital Universitario Puerta del Mar, Cádiz, España.
(8)UGC de Urología, Hospital de Jerez de la Frontera, Cádiz, España.
(9)UGC de Urología, Hospital Universitario San Cecilio, Instituto de 
Investigación Biosanitaria de Granada, Granada, España.

CONTEXT: Prostate cancer treatment remains a challenge for the urologist. 
Medical control in locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer is usually 
performed with LHRH analogues and/or antiandrogens. Different treatments have 
been proposed when there is biochemical and clinical progression of the disease 
and other new ones have changed the patients' perspective and life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: This review has aimed to establish the current role of Abiraterone 
Acetate in the treatment of castration-resistant prostate cancer and facilitate 
decision-making by the Urologist by means of a Treatment Algorithm.
ACQUISITION OF THE EVIDENCE: A search of current evidence on Abiraterone 
treatment in patients with castration- resistant metastatic prostate cancer was 
performed in PubMed, mainly analyzing those studies designed as clinical trials. 
In addition, we reviewed and updated the role of hormone therapy and androgen 
receptors in prostate cancer.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: There are currently basically two clinical trials that 
demonstrate the effectiveness of Abiraterone in metastatic prostate cancer 
compared to placebo. The study COU-AA 302 shows a clear benefit with Abiraterone 
prior to chemotherapy in patients with castration-resistant prostate cancer, 
this making it possible to establish an algorithm for initial treatment that 
facilitates decision-making by the urologist.
CONCLUSION: Abiraterone is a pre-chemotherapy treatment option in selected 
patients with castration resistant metastatic prostate cancer, although it is 
necessary to improve the cost and to design more multicenter clinical trials to 
optimize the cost/benefit ratio.

Copyright © 2013 AEU. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acuro.2013.10.008
PMID: 24342031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


832. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2013 Dec;138(51-52):2666-70. doi:
10.1055/s-0033-1359876.  Epub 2013 Dec 16.

[Do physicians live longer?--A medico-historical view].

[Article in German]

Jütte R.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1359876
PMID: 24343184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


833. Stat Med. 2014 May 20;33(11):1900-13. doi: 10.1002/sim.6074. Epub 2013 Dec
16.

Bayesian models for cost-effectiveness analysis in the presence of structural 
zero costs.

Baio G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistical Science, University College London, London, U.K.

Bayesian modelling for cost-effectiveness data has received much attention in 
both the health economics and the statistical literature, in recent years. 
Cost-effectiveness data are characterised by a relatively complex structure of 
relationships linking a suitable measure of clinical benefit (e.g. 
quality-adjusted life years) and the associated costs. Simplifying assumptions, 
such as (bivariate) normality of the underlying distributions, are usually not 
granted, particularly for the cost variable, which is characterised by markedly 
skewed distributions. In addition, individual-level data sets are often 
characterised by the presence of structural zeros in the cost variable. Hurdle 
models can be used to account for the presence of excess zeros in a distribution 
and have been applied in the context of cost data. We extend their application 
to cost-effectiveness data, defining a full Bayesian specification, which 
consists of a model for the individual probability of null costs, a marginal 
model for the costs and a conditional model for the measure of effectiveness 
(given the observed costs). We presented the model using a working example to 
describe its main features.

© 2013 The Authors. Statistics in Medicine published by John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.6074
PMCID: PMC4285321
PMID: 24343868 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


834. J BUON. 2013 Oct-Dec;18(4):1038-44.

Cancer burden of breast and gynecological cancers in Bulgaria: epidemiology and 
clinical aspects.

Chakalova G(1), Dimitrova N, Gavrilov I, Valerianova Z.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecologic Oncology, National Oncology Hospital, Sofia, 
Bulgaria.

PURPOSE: In Bulgaria, there are over 3700 cases diagnosed with breast cancer 
annually and over 3300 with gynecological cancers. The purpose of this study was 
to estimate the burden of breast and gynecological cancers in Bulgaria, 
analyzing trends of incidence, mortality and survival for the past two decades.
METHODS: Data from the Bulgarian National Cancer Registry for women diagnosed 
with cancer of breast (C50, ICD10), cervix uteri (C53), corpus uteri (C54) and 
ovary (C56) during 1993 - 2009 were analyzed. Age-standardized incidence and 
mortality rates (ASR) per 100,000 persons were calculated using the world 
standard population. Average annual percent changes (AAPC) for 1993-2009 were 
estimated by Joinpoint regression. The observed survival was analyzed with the 
Life Table method for two periods: 1993-1997 and 2005-2009.
RESULTS: Incidence rates of the most frequent cancers among Bulgarian women are 
increasing - from 1.7% to 2.6% annually. Mortality rates are decreasing 
significantly for breast (-0.8% annually) and increasing for corpus uteri 
cancers (4.9% annually). Survival for all sites increased from 3 to 8% over the 
study period. We observed greater proportion of cases diagnosed in stage I in 
2009 than in 1993, for the 4 sites.
CONCLUSION: These results indicate some differences in trends in incidence and 
mortality of the reviewed sites compared with other European countries, 
highlighting the need for more strict adherence to integrated treatment 
standards and the necessity of introduction of population screening programs.

PMID: 24344035 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


835. Pediatrics. 2014 Jan;133(1):78-87. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-2567. Epub 2013
Dec  16.

Association between pediatric clinical trials and global burden of disease.

Bourgeois FT(1), Olson KL, Ioannidis JP, Mandl KD.

Author information:
(1)Division of Emergency Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, 300 Longwood Ave, 
Boston, MA 02115. florence.bourgeois@childrens.harvard.edu.

BACKGROUND: The allocation of research resources should favor conditions 
responsible for the greatest disease burden. This is particularly important in 
pediatric populations, which have been underrepresented in clinical research. 
Our aim was to measure the association between the focus of pediatric clinical 
trials and burden of disease and to identify neglected clinical domains.
METHODS: We performed a cross-sectional study of clinical trials by using trial 
records in ClinicalTrials.gov. All trials started in 2006 or after and studying 
patient-level interventions in pediatric populations were included. Age-specific 
measures of disease burden were obtained for 21 separate conditions for high-, 
middle-, and low-income countries. We measured the correlation between number of 
pediatric clinical trials and disease burden for each condition.
RESULTS: Neuropsychiatric conditions and infectious diseases were the most 
studied conditions globally in terms of number of trials (874 and 847 trials, 
respectively), while intentional injuries (5 trials) and maternal conditions (4 
trials) were the least studied. Clinical trials were only moderately correlated 
with global disease burden (r = 0.58, P = .006). Correlations were also moderate 
within each of the country income levels, but lowest in low-income countries (r 
= .47, P = .03). Globally, the conditions most understudied relative to disease 
burden were injuries (-260 trials for unintentional injuries and -160 trials for 
intentional injuries), nutritional deficiencies (-175 trials), and respiratory 
infections (-171 trials).
CONCLUSIONS: Pediatric clinical trial activity is only moderately associated 
with pediatric burden of disease, and least associated in low-income countries. 
The mismatch between clinical trials and disease burden identifies key clinical 
areas for focus and investment.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-2567
PMCID: PMC3876184
PMID: 24344112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


836. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2013 Sep;21(3):128-33. doi: 10.21101/cejph.a3781.

What can public endorsement for a smoking ban policy mean? Preliminary findings 
from a qualitative study.

Borowiec A(1), Lignowska I(2), Makowska M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Cardiovascular Disease Prevention and Health 
Promotion, Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński Institute of Cardiology, Warsaw, Poland. 
aborowiec@ikard.pl
(2)Department of Epidemiology, Cardiovascular Disease Prevention and Health 
Promotion, Cardinal Stefan Wyszyński Institute of Cardiology, Warsaw, Poland.
(3)Faculty of Social Science, Warsaw University of Life Sciences, Warsaw, 
Poland.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of the study is to describe attitudes which underlie Pole's 
declarations of support for a smoking ban in public places.
METHODS: The qualitative study using semi-structured individual in-depth 
interviews was conducted. The 30 IDI-s (in depth interviews) being a part of a 
larger research project entitled 'Lay meanings of health and life orientation of 
Polish society versus prevention and health promotion attitudes' were realized 
between 2007-2009. People belonging to all key socio-demographic categories 
identified by variables such as sex, age, education, and place of domicile were 
interviewed. The resulting material was subjected to content analysis. In the 
study the structural concept of 'attitude' was adopted. In order to identify the 
attitudes towards smoking bans in public places statements related to all three 
components of attitudes were analysed, but the typology of attitudes was 
constructed mainly on the basis of the emotional-evaluative component.
RESULTS: The study identified as many as four attitudes behind the declared 
support for a smoking ban in public places. Those attitudes were labelled 
'supportive', 'accepting', 'conditionally accepting', and 'ambivalent'. They 
differ as regards degree of acceptance for the ban, conviction about harmfulness 
of passive smoking, setting great store by other regulators of smoking like 
cultural norms or healthy consciousness, and propensity to observe and execute 
the smoking ban. The 'supportive' attitude can be characterized not only by 
total support for the smoking ban in public places but also by insistence on the 
need for its extension. The 'accepting' attitude means approval for the smoking 
ban, and the 'conditionally accepting' attitude is distinguished from the others 
by the stress put on the right of smokers to have an access to places where 
smoking is permitted. The 'ambivalent' attitude can be typified by underlining 
other than legal ways of influencing smoking in public places.
CONCLUSIONS: The study suggests that the attitudes underlying the Pole's 
declarations of support for a smoking ban in public places can be 
differentiated. However, because of the low number of participants in the study 
the results should be verified thus the further research is needed. Therefore, 
there is a need not only to study people's declaration of support or objection 
for the smoking ban in public places but also to examine their attitudes 
including cognitive and behavioural components using both qualitative and 
quantitative methods of social research.

DOI: 10.21101/cejph.a3781
PMID: 24344534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


837. Cent Eur J Public Health. 2013 Sep;21(3):171-3. doi: 10.21101/cejph.a3818.

Systemic lupus erythematosus--disease impact on patients.

Macejová Z(1), Záriková M(2), Oetterová M(3).

Author information:
(1)3rd Department of Internal Medicine, L. Pasteur University Hospital, Kosice, 
Slovakia. zelmira.macejova@upjs.sk
(2)3rd Department of Internal Medicine, L. Pasteur University Hospital, Kosice, 
Slovakia.
(3)1st Department of Internal Medicine, L. Pasteur University Hospital, Kosice, 
Slovakia.

AIM: Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is an inflammatory autoimmune disease 
that can affect almost all organs of the body. Lupus is a non-curable disease 
and the treatment is based on symptom control by immunosuppressive and 
anti-inflammatory treatment. The disease itself as well as treatment-related 
adverse events have a significant negative impact on life expectancy and quality 
of life of patients. The aim of this study was to identify the impact of the 
disease on life of SLE patients.
METHODS: Data were collected anonymously using a special questionnaire. The 
survey involved 76 patients with SLE, results were processed by conventional 
methods and descriptive statistic methods.
RESULTS: The survey has confirmed the impact of SLE on professional activities 
i.e. up to 63% of patients are registered disabled, of which 46% are granted 
full disability pension. SLE negatively affects patients' career--up to 39% of 
SLE patients stated that they had to change a job due to their disease. SLE has 
a strong impact on everyday life of patients. SLE symptoms are significant even 
during the period of quiescence--predominantly fatigue, reduced physical 
activity, pain. The most influenced activities of daily living included 
sunbathing and more strenuous activities or sport. The fact that limitations in 
all monitored activities are present in more than 50% of patients is a serious 
finding. Treatment-related adverse events have negative impact on the quality of 
life in almost 70% of patients. The most frequent events include 
gastrointestinal symptoms, visual disturbance and osteoporosis.
CONCLUSION: SLE has a significant impact on the quality of life of patients and 
hinders them from leading everyday life at the level comparable to healthy 
population.

DOI: 10.21101/cejph.a3818
PMID: 24344545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


838. Birth. 2013 Dec;40(4):272-80. doi: 10.1111/birt.12071.

Antenatal hypnosis training and childbirth experience: a randomized controlled 
trial.

Werner A(1), Uldbjerg N, Zachariae R, Wu CS, Nohr EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Aarhus University Hospital Skejby, 
Aarhus N, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Childbirth is a demanding event in a woman's life. The aim of this 
study was to explore whether a brief intervention in the form of an antenatal 
course in self-hypnosis to ease childbirth could improve the childbirth 
experience.
METHOD: In a randomized, controlled, single-blinded trial, 1,222 healthy 
nulliparous women were allocated to one of three groups during pregnancy: A 
hypnosis group participating in three 1-hour sessions teaching self-hypnosis to 
ease childbirth, a relaxation group receiving three 1-hour lessons in various 
relaxation methods and Mindfulness, and a usual care group receiving ordinary 
antenatal care only. Wijmas Delivery Expectancy/Experience Questionnaire (W-DEQ) 
was used to measure the childbirth experience 6 weeks postpartum.
RESULTS: The intention-to-treat analysis indicated that women in the hypnosis 
group experienced their childbirth as better compared with the other two groups 
(mean W-DEQ score of 42.9 in the Hypnosis group, 47.2 in the Relaxation group, 
