significant gradient relationship. Both discoveries suggest that f-Hb may not 
only make contribution to facilitating individually tailored screening for CRC 
but also can be used as a significant predictor for life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003740
PMCID: PMC3822305
PMID: 24202058


467. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2013 Dec;8(12):2117-22. doi: 10.2215/CJN.04110413.
Epub  2013 Nov 7.

Survival after dialysis discontinuation and hospice enrollment for ESRD.

O'Connor NR(1), Dougherty M, Harris PS, Casarett DJ.

Author information:
(1)University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia 
Pennsylvania, †Kansas City Hospice and Palliative Care, Kansas City, Missouri.

Comment in
    Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2013 Dec;8(12):2028-30.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Textbooks report that patients with ESRD survive for 
7-10 days after discontinuation of dialysis. Studies describing actual survival 
are limited, however, and research has not defined patient characteristics that 
may be associated with longer or shorter survival times. The goals of this study 
were to determine the mean life expectancy of patients admitted to hospice after 
discontinuation of dialysis, and to identify independent predictors of survival 
time.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: Data for demographics, clinical 
characteristics, and survival were obtained from 10 hospices for patients with 
ESRD who discontinued dialysis before hospice admission. Data were collected for 
patients admitted between January 1, 2008 and May 15, 2012. All hospices were 
members of the Coalition of Hospices Organized to Investigate Comparative 
Effectiveness network, which obtains de-identified data from an electronic 
medical record.
RESULTS: Of 1947 patients who discontinued dialysis, the mean survival after 
hospice enrollment was 7.4 days (range, 0-40 days). Patients who discontinued 
dialysis had significantly shorter survival compared with other patients 
(n=124,673) with nonrenal hospice diagnoses (mean survival 54.4 days; hazard 
ratio, 2.96; 95% confidence interval, 2.82 to 3.09; P<0.001). A Cox proportional 
hazards model identified seven independent predictors of earlier mortality after 
dialysis discontinuation, including male sex, referral from a hospital, lower 
functional status (Palliative Performance Scale score), and the presence of 
peripheral edema.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients who discontinue dialysis have significantly shorter 
survival than other hospice patients. Individual survival time varies greatly, 
but several variables can be used to predict survival and tailor a patient's 
care plan based on estimated prognosis.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.04110413
PMCID: PMC3848402
PMID: 24202133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


468. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2014 Jun;47(4):293-301. doi: 10.1007/s00391-013-0562-0.

[Polypharmacy and drug prescription in the elderly. Strategies for 
optimization].

[Article in German]

Eckardt R(1), Steinhagen-Thiessen E, Kämpfe S, Buchmann N.

Author information:
(1)Forschungsgruppe Geriatrie der Charité Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Ev. 
Geriatriezentrum Berlin, Reinickendorfer Str. 61, 13347, Berlin, Deutschland, 
rahel.eckardt@charite.de.

BACKGROUND: When used appropriately, drugs are an effective and efficient 
intervention in the care of patients. However, elderly, multimorbid patients are 
especially prone to adverse side effects caused by the simultaneous intake of 
many drugs--this effect is called polypharmacy. Furthermore, adverse medical 
effects occur more frequently with elderly people compared to younger patients. 
This is due to age-specific metabolic changes and issues with compliance and 
adherence. Therefore, the indication for medication should be taken carefully 
and individually especially for elderly patients, in order to develop a 
realistic risk-benefit ratio, taking into consideration questions like quality 
of life and life expectancy.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this paper, the current medical care situation of 
elderly people is presented; problems are identified and analyzed.
RESULTS: Supported by a selected literature search, recommendations for 
improving medication safety are summarized.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-013-0562-0
PMID: 24202297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


469. Ann Behav Med. 1996 Mar;18(1):40-8. doi: 10.1007/BF02903938.

Behavioral medicine interventions can improve the quality-of-life and health of 
persons with HIV disease.

Sikkema KJ(1), Kelly JA.

Author information:
(1)Center for AIDS Intervention Research (CAIR), Department of Psychiatry and 
Behavioral Medicine, Medical College of Wisconsin, 8701 Watertown Plank Road, 
53226, Milwaukee, WI.

Interventions to enhance the quality-of-life and health of persons with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) disease are becoming increasingly important as the 
number of people with HIV increases and as medical treatment regimens extend 
their life expectancy. Behavioral medicine approaches carry considerable promise 
for the treatment of disorders associated with HIV disease, including 
HIV-related nutritional disorders, pain management, sleep disorders, and 
treatment adherence. This article summarizes the literature on the prevalence of 
these disorders in HIV disease, reviews established behavioral medicine 
interventions for the disorders, and discusses how behavioral medicine 
interventions might be applied to the HIV manifestation of the disorders. 
Efforts to apply behavioral medicine approaches to improve life quality, 
alleviate sequelae of illness, and improve health outcomes in persons with HIV 
disease are urgently needed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02903938
PMID: 24203642


470. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 18;8(10):e76404. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0076404. 
eCollection 2013.

Demographic transition in India: an evolutionary interpretation of population 
and health trends using 'change-point analysis'.

Goli S(1), Arokiasamy P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Development Studies, Giri Institute of Development Studies 
(GIDS), Lucknow, Uttar Pradesh, India.

BACKGROUND AND RATIONALE: Lack of a robust analytical tool for trend analysis of 
population and health indicators is the basic rationale of this study. In an 
effort to fill this gap, this study advances 'Change-Point analyzer' as a new 
analytical tool for assessment of the progress and its pattern in population and 
health indicators.
METHODOLOGY/PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The defining feature of 'change-point analyzer' 
is that, it detects subtle changes that are often missed in simple trend line 
plots and also quantified the volume of change that is not possible in simple 
trend line plots. A long-term assessment of 'change-point analyses' of trends in 
population and health indicators such as IMR, Population size, TFR, and LEB in 
India show multiple points of critical changes. Measured change points of 
demographic and health trends helps in understanding the demographic 
transitional shifts connecting it to contextual policy shifts. Critical 
change-points in population and health indicators in India are associated with 
the evolution of structural changes in population and health policy framework.
CONCLUSIONS: This study, therefore, adds significantly to the evolutionary 
interpretation of critical change-points in long-term trajectories of population 
and health indicators vis-a-vis population and health policy shifts in India. 
The results have not only helped in reassessing the historical past and the 
current demographic transition trajectory but also advanced a new method of 
assessing the population and health trends which are necessary for robust 
monitoring of the progress in population and health policies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0076404
PMCID: PMC3799745
PMID: 24204621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


471. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 30;8(10):e77776. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077776. 
eCollection 2013.

Extension of life span by impaired glucose metabolism in Caenorhabditis elegans 
is accompanied by structural rearrangements of the transcriptomic network.

Priebe S(1), Menzel U, Zarse K, Groth M, Platzer M, Ristow M, Guthke R.

Author information:
(1)Systems Biology and Bioinformatics Group, Leibniz Institute for Natural 
Product Research and Infection Biology - Hans-Knoell-Institute, Jena, Germany.

Glucose restriction mimicked by feeding the roundworm Caenorhabditis elegans 
with 2-deoxy-D-glucose (DOG) - a glucose molecule that lacks the ability to 
undergo glycolysis - has been found to increase the life span of the nematodes 
considerably. To facilitate understanding of the molecular mechanisms behind 
this life extension, we analyzed transcriptomes of DOG-treated and untreated 
roundworms obtained by RNA-seq at different ages. We found that, depending on 
age, DOG changes the magnitude of the expression values of about 2 to 24 percent 
of the genes significantly, although our results reveal that the gross changes 
introduced by DOG are small compared to the age-induced changes. We found that 
27 genes are constantly either up- or down-regulated by DOG over the whole life 
span, among them several members of the cytochrome P450 family. The monotonic 
change with age of the temporal expression patterns of the genes was 
investigated, leading to the result that 21 genes reverse their monotonic 
behaviour under impaired glycolysis. Put simply, the DOG-treatment reduces the 
gross transcriptional activity but increases the interconnectedness of gene 
expression. However, a detailed analysis of network parameters discloses that 
the introduced changes differ remarkably between individual signalling pathways. 
We found a reorganization of the hubs of the mTOR pathway when standard diet is 
replaced by DOG feeding. By constructing correlation based difference networks, 
we identified those signalling pathways that are most vigorously changed by 
impaired glycolysis. Taken together, we have found a number of genes and 
pathways that are potentially involved in the DOG-driven extension of life span 
of C. elegans. Furthermore, our results demonstrate how the network structure of 
ageing-relevant signalling pathways is reorganised under impaired glycolysis.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0077776
PMCID: PMC3813781
PMID: 24204961 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


472. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 25;8(10):e78403. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078403. 
eCollection 2013.

Co-morbidity, ageing and predicted mortality in antiretroviral treated 
Australian men: a quantitative analysis.

Furuya-Kanamori L(1), Kelly MD, McKenzie SJ.

Author information:
(1)The University of Queensland, School of Population Health, Queensland, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy has increased in HIV-positive individuals receiving 
combination antiretroviral therapy (cART); however, they still experience 
increased mortality due to ageing-associated comorbidities compared with 
HIV-negative individuals.
METHODS: A retrospective study of 314 Queensland HIV-infected males on cART was 
conducted. The negative impact of ageing was assessed by estimating the 
probability of 5-year mortality; comparisons were made between an HIV-specific 
predictive tool (VACS index) and the Australian Bureau of Statistics (ABS) 
life-tables to examine potential differences attributed to HIV. The negative 
impact of ageing was also assessed by the prevalence of comorbidities. 
Associations between comorbidity and estimates of predicted mortality by 
regression analysis were assessed.
RESULTS: The mean predicted 5-year mortality rate was 6% using the VACS index 
compared with 2.1% using the ABS life-table (p<0.001). The proportion of 
patients at predicted high risk of mortality (>9%) using the VACS index or ABS 
life-table were 17% and 1.8% respectively. Comorbidities were also more 
prevalent in this cohort compared with rates of comorbidities in age-matched 
Australian men from the general population. Metabolic disease (38.2%) was the 
most prevalent comorbidity followed by renal (33.1%) and cardiovascular disease 
(23.9%). Multivariate analysis demonstrated that patients with a history of 
cardiovascular disease had a higher predicted risk of mortality 
(OR=1.69;95%CI:1.17-2.45) whereas ex-smokers had a lower predicted risk of 
mortality (OR=0.61;95%CI:0.41-0.92).
CONCLUSIONS: Using the VACS Index there is an increased predicted risk of 
mortality in cART-treated HIV infected Australian men compared with age-matched 
men using the ABS data. This increased predicted mortality risk is associated 
with cardiovascular disease and the number of comorbidities per subject; which 
suggests that the VACS Index may discriminate between high and low predicted 
mortality risks in this population. However, until the VACS Index is validated 
in Australia this data may suggest the VACS Index overestimates predicted 
mortality risk in this country.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078403
PMCID: PMC3808383
PMID: 24205222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


473. J Child Adolesc Psychopharmacol. 2013 Nov;23(9):605-13. doi: 
10.1089/cap.2013.0054. Epub 2013 Nov 9.

Atomoxetine improved attention in children and adolescents with 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder and dyslexia in a 16 week, acute, 
randomized, double-blind trial.

Wietecha L(1), Williams D, Shaywitz S, Shaywitz B, Hooper SR, Wigal SB, Dunn D, 
McBurnett K.

Author information:
(1)1 US Medical Neuroscience, Lilly USA, LLC , Indianapolis, Indiana.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to evaluate atomoxetine treatment 
effects in attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder (ADHD-only), 
attention-deficit/hyperactivity disorder with comorbid dyslexia (ADHD+D), or 
dyslexia only on ADHD core symptoms and on sluggish cognitive tempo (SCT), 
working memory, life performance, and self-concept.
METHODS: Children and adolescents (10-16 years of age) with ADHD+D (n=124), 
dyslexia-only (n=58), or ADHD-only (n=27) received atomoxetine (1.0-1.4 
mg/kg/day) or placebo (ADHD-only subjects received atomoxetine) in a 16 week, 
acute, randomized, double-blind trial with a 16 week, open-label extension phase 
(atomoxetine treatment only). Changes from baseline were assessed to weeks 16 
and 32 in ADHD Rating Scale-IV-Parent-Version:Investigator-Administered and 
Scored (ADHDRS-IV-Parent:Inv); ADHD Rating Scale-IV-Teacher-Version 
(ADHDRS-IV-Teacher-Version); Life Participation Scale-Child- or Parent-Rated 
Version (LPS); Kiddie-Sluggish Cognitive Tempo (K-SCT) Interview; 
Multidimensional Self Concept Scale (MSCS); and Working Memory Test Battery for 
Children (WMTB-C).
RESULTS: At week 16, atomoxetine treatment resulted in significant (p<0.05) 
improvement from baseline in subjects with ADHD+D versus placebo on 
ADHDRS-IV-Parent:Inv Total (primary outcome) and subscales, 
ADHDRS-IV-Teacher-Version Inattentive subscale, K-SCT Interview Parent and 
Teacher subscales, and WMTB-C Central Executive component scores; in subjects 
with Dyslexia-only, atomoxetine versus placebo significantly improved K-SCT 
Youth subscale scores from baseline. At Week 32, atomoxetine-treated ADHD+D 
subjects significantly improved from baseline on all measures except MSCS Family 
subscale and WMTB-C Central Executive and Visuo-spatial Sketchpad component 
scores. The atomoxetine-treated dyslexia-only subjects significantly improved 
from baseline to week 32 on ADHDRS-IV-Parent:Inv Inattentive subscale, K-SCT 
Parent and Teacher subscales, and WMTB-C Phonological Loop and Central Executive 
component scores. The atomoxetine-treated ADHD-only subjects significantly 
improved from baseline to Week 32 on ADHDRS-Parent:Inv Total and subscales, 
ADHDRS-IV-Teacher-Version Hyperactive/Impulsive subscale, LPS Self-Control and 
Total, all K-SCT subscales, and MSCS Academic and Competence subscale scores.
CONCLUSIONS: Atomoxetine treatment improved ADHD symptoms in subjects with 
ADHD+D and ADHD-only, but not in subjects with dyslexia-only without ADHD. This 
is the first study to report significant effects of any medication on SCT.
CLINICAL TRIALS REGISTRATION: This study was registered at: 
http://clinicaltrials.gov/ct2/home, NCT00607919.

DOI: 10.1089/cap.2013.0054
PMCID: PMC3842866
PMID: 24206099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. J Epidemiol Glob Health. 2013 Dec;3(4):269-77. doi:
10.1016/j.jegh.2013.05.002.  Epub 2013 Jul 5.

Conflict and diarrheal and related diseases: a global analysis.

Kerridge BT(1), Khan MR, Rehm J, Sapkota A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University of Maryland, College Park, College Park, MD 20742, United States. 
Electronic address: bkerridg@umd.edu.

The purpose of this study was to determine the association between deaths owing 
to terrorism, civil war and one-sided violence from 1994-2000 and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) attributable to diarrheal and related 
diseases, schistosomiasis, trachoma and the nematode infections (DSTN diseases) 
in 2002 among World Health Organization Member States. Deaths resulting from 
terrorism, civil war and one-sided violence were significantly related to DSTN 
DALYs across the majority of sex-age subgroups of the populace, after 
controlling for baseline levels of improved water/sanitation and a variety of 
economic measures: overall, a 1.0% increase in deaths owing to terrorism and 
related violence was associated with an increase of 0.16% in DALYs lost to DSTN 
diseases. Associations were greatest among 0-to-4-year olds. The results of the 
present study suggest that DSTN disease control efforts should target 
conflict-affected populations with particular attention to young children who 
suffer disproportionately from DSTN diseases in these settings. In view of the 
evidence that terrorism and related violence may influence DSTN DALYs in the 
longer term, control strategies should move beyond immediate responses to 
decrease the incidence and severity of DSTN diseases to seek solutions through 
bolstering health systems infrastructure development among conflict-affected 
populations.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jegh.2013.05.002
PMCID: PMC4691541
PMID: 24206798 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: None declared.


475. Surg Clin North Am. 2013 Dec;93(6):1395-406. doi: 10.1016/j.suc.2013.08.007.

The kidney allocation system.

Friedewald JJ(1), Samana CJ, Kasiske BL, Israni AK, Stewart D, Cherikh W, 
Formica RN.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Transplant Center, Department of Surgery, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Northwestern University, 676 North Saint Clair Street, Suite 1900, 
Chicago, IL 60611, USA. Electronic address: jfriedew@nmh.org.

The current kidney allocation system for transplants is outdated and has not 
evolved to reflect the changing demographics of patients on the waiting list. 
This article proposes a new system for kidney allocation, which more 
appropriately incorporates the biology of highly sensitized patients into the 
waiting-time scoring algorithm. This system will significantly reduce mismatches 
between possible donor kidney longevity and life expectancy of recipients, and 
makes incremental advances toward more geographic sharing. The proposed system 
makes significant progress toward eliminating deficiencies in the current 
system, and has the potential to increase the supply of available kidneys.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.suc.2013.08.007
PMID: 24206858 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Eur Urol. 2014 Jan;65(1):124-37. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2013.09.046. Epub
2013  Oct 6.

EAU guidelines on prostate cancer. part 1: screening, diagnosis, and local 
treatment with curative intent-update 2013.

Heidenreich A(1), Bastian PJ, Bellmunt J, Bolla M, Joniau S, van der Kwast T, 
Mason M, Matveev V, Wiegel T, Zattoni F, Mottet N; European Association of 
Urology.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, RWTH University Aachen, Aachen, Germany. Electronic 
address: aheidenreich@ukaachen.de.

Comment in
    Magn Reson Imaging. 2014 May;32(4):402-3.

CONTEXT: The most recent summary of the European Association of Urology (EAU) 
guidelines on prostate cancer (PCa) was published in 2011.
OBJECTIVE: To present a summary of the 2013 version of the EAU guidelines on 
screening, diagnosis, and local treatment with curative intent of clinically 
organ-confined PCa.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: A literature review of the new data emerging from 2011 to 
2013 has been performed by the EAU PCa guideline group. The guidelines have been 
updated, and levels of evidence and grades of recommendation have been added to 
the text based on a systematic review of the literature, which included a search 
of online databases and bibliographic reviews.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: A full version of the guidelines is available at the EAU 
office or online (www.uroweb.org). Current evidence is insufficient to warrant 
widespread population-based screening by prostate-specific antigen (PSA) for 
PCa. Systematic prostate biopsies under ultrasound guidance and local anesthesia 
are the preferred diagnostic method. Active surveillance represents a viable 
option in men with low-risk PCa and a long life expectancy. A biopsy progression 
indicates the need for active intervention, whereas the role of PSA doubling 
time is controversial. In men with locally advanced PCa for whom local therapy 
is not mandatory, watchful waiting (WW) is a treatment alternative to 
androgen-deprivation therapy (ADT), with equivalent oncologic efficacy. Active 
treatment is recommended mostly for patients with localized disease and a long 
life expectancy, with radical prostatectomy (RP) shown to be superior to WW in 
prospective randomized trials. Nerve-sparing RP is the approach of choice in 
organ-confined disease, while neoadjuvant ADT provides no improvement in outcome 
variables. Radiation therapy should be performed with ≥ 74 Gy in low-risk PCa 
and 78 Gy in intermediate- or high-risk PCa. For locally advanced disease, 
adjuvant ADT for 3 yr results in superior rates for disease-specific and overall 
survival and is the treatment of choice. Follow-up after local therapy is 
largely based on PSA and a disease-specific history, with imaging indicated only 
when symptoms occur.
CONCLUSIONS: Knowledge in the field of PCa is rapidly changing. These EAU 
guidelines on PCa summarize the most recent findings and put them into clinical 
practice.
PATIENT SUMMARY: A summary is presented of the 2013 EAU guidelines on screening, 
diagnosis, and local treatment with curative intent of clinically organ-confined 
prostate cancer (PCa). Screening continues to be done on an individual basis, in 
consultation with a physician. Diagnosis is by prostate biopsy. Active 
surveillance is an option in low-risk PCa and watchful waiting is an alternative 
to androgen-deprivation therapy in locally advanced PCa not requiring immediate 
local treatment. Radical prostatectomy is the only surgical option. Radiation 
therapy can be external or delivered by way of prostate implants. Treatment 
follow-up is based on the PSA level.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2013.09.046
PMID: 24207135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. Paediatr Respir Rev. 2013 Dec;14(4):263-9. doi: 10.1016/j.prrv.2012.08.006.
Epub  2012 Nov 4.

Physiotherapy in cystic fibrosis: optimising techniques to improve outcomes.

Rand S(1), Hill L, Prasad SA.

Author information:
(1)Cystic Fibrosis Unit, Great Ormond Street Hospital for Children NHS 
Foundation Trust, London, UK; Portex Unit, UCL Institute of Child Health, 
London, UK. Electronic address: Sarah.Rand@gosh.nhs.uk.

Optimisation of physiotherapy techniques to improve outcomes is an area of 
cystic fibrosis (CF) care, which has developed considerably over the last two 
decades. With the introduction of newborn screening and an increase in median 
life expectancy, the management of individuals with CF has needed to adapt to a 
more dynamic and individualised approach. It is essential that CF physiotherapy 
management reflects the needs of a changing cohort of paediatric CF patients and 
it is no longer justifiable to adopt a 'blanket' prescriptive approach to care. 
The areas of physiotherapy management which are reviewed and discussed in this 
paper include inhalation therapy, airway clearance techniques, the management of 
newborn screened infants, physical activity and exercise.

Copyright © 2012 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prrv.2012.08.006
PMID: 24209461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


478. Heart Lung Circ. 2014 Apr;23(4):332-8. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2013.10.055. Epub
2013  Oct 16.

Detection of serious complications by MR imaging in asymptomatic young adults 
with repaired coarctation of the aorta.

Padang R(1), Dennis M(2), Semsarian C(3), Bannon PG(4), Tanous DJ(5), Celermajer 
DS(6), Puranik R(7).

Author information:
(1)Agnes Ginges Centre for Molecular Cardiology, Centenary Institute, Australia; 
Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Australia; Department of 
Cardiology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia; The Baird Institute 
of Applied Heart and Lung Surgical Research, Sydney, Australia.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
(3)Agnes Ginges Centre for Molecular Cardiology, Centenary Institute, Australia; 
Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Australia; Department of 
Cardiology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Australia; The Baird Institute 
of Applied Heart and Lung Surgical Research, Sydney, Australia; Department of 
Cardiothoracic Surgery, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia; 
Department of Cardiology, Westmead Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
(6)Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Australia; Department of 
Cardiology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
(7)Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Australia; Department of 
Cardiology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, Australia; SMRI, RPAH Medical 
Centre, Australia. Electronic address: raj.puranik@cmrs.org.au.

BACKGROUND: Despite early repair, patients with aortic coarctation (CoA) 
continue to have a reduced life expectancy due to the development of late 
complications. We sought to define the rate of aortic abnormalities in patients 
with previous CoA repair, referred for surveillance magnetic resonance (MR) 
imaging.
METHODS: We evaluated 59 asymptomatic adults consecutively for repaired CoA with 
MR imaging between 2008 and 2012.
RESULTS: Patients were aged 29 ± 8 (16-49) years; 34 males (58%) and 34 with 
bicuspid aortic valve (58%). Median age at the time of initial repair was two 
years. Surveillance MR imaging was performed 23 ± 8 years post-procedure. The 
three most common interventions performed were subclavian-flap repair (25%), 
end-to-end repair (33%) and patch aortoplasty (33%). Re-intervention with 
balloon angioplasty or repeat surgery had been performed in 22% of subjects. 
There were 28 cases of recoarctation (48%), of which seven were at least 
moderate in severity. Repair site and ascending aortic aneurysm occurred in 
eight (14%) and four (7%) subjects, respectively. Freedom from any degree of 
recoarctation and other aortic complications was observed in eight subjects 
(14%).
CONCLUSION: MR imaging detected a high rate of aortic abnormalities in 
asymptomatic adults after CoA repair, including 27% with clinically significant 
recoarctation and/or local aneurysm formation.

Copyright © 2013 Australian and New Zealand Society of Cardiac and Thoracic 
Surgeons (ANZSCTS) and the Cardiac Society of Australia and New Zealand (CSANZ). 
Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hlc.2013.10.055
PMID: 24210077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


479. Urol Oncol. 2013 Nov;31(8):1845. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2013.08.011.

Commentary on "Androgen-deprivation therapy alone or with docetaxel in 
non-castrate metastatic prostate cancer (GETUG-AFU 15): a randomised, 
open-label, phase 3 trial." Gravis G, Fizazi K, Joly F, Oudard S, Priou F, 
Esterni B, Latorzeff I, Delva R, Krakowski I, Laguerre B, Rolland F, Théodore C, 
Deplanque G, Ferrero JM, Pouessel D, Mourey L, Beuzeboc P, Zanetta S, Habibian 
M, Berdah JF, Dauba J, Baciuchka M, Platini C, Linassier C, Labourey JL, 
Machiels JP, El Kouri C, Ravaud A, Suc E, Eymard JC, Hasbini A, Bousquet G, 
Soulie M, Medical Oncology and Biostatistics, Institut Paoli-Calmettes, 
Marseille, France. Lancet Oncol 2013;14(2):149-58 [Epub 2013 Jan 8].

Trump DL.

Comment on
    Lancet Oncol. 2013 Feb;14(2):149-58.

BACKGROUND: Early chemotherapy might improve the overall outcomes of patients 
with metastatic non-castrate (i.e., hormone-sensitive) prostate cancer. We 
investigated the effects of the addition of docetaxel to androgen-deprivation 
therapy (ADT) for patients with metastatic non-castrate prostate cancer.
METHODS: In this randomised, open-label, phase 3 study, we enrolled patients in 
29 centres in France and one in Belgium. Eligible patients were older than 18 
years and had histologically confirmed adenocarcinoma of the prostate and 
radiologically proven metastatic disease; a Karnofsky score of at least 70%; a 
life expectancy of at least 3 months; and adequate hepatic, haematological, and 
renal function. They were randomly assigned to receive to ADT (orchiectomy or 
luteinising hormone-releasing hormone agonists, alone or combined with 
non-steroidal antiandrogens) alone or in combination with docetaxel (75 mg/m(2) 
intravenously on the first day of each 21-day cycle; up to nine cycles). 
Patients were randomised in a 1:1 ratio, with dynamic minimisation to minimise 
imbalances in previous systemic treatment with ADT, chemotherapy for local 
disease or isolated rising concentration of serum prostate-specific antigen, and 
Glass risk groups. Patients, physicians, and data analysts were not masked to 
treatment allocation. The primary endpoint was overall survival. Efficacy 
analyses were done by intention to treat. This trial is registered with 
ClinicalTrials.gov, number NCT00104715.
FINDINGS: Between Oct 18, 2004, and Dec 31, 2008, 192 patients were randomly 
allocated to receive ADT plus docetaxel and 193 to receive ADT alone. Median 
follow-up was 50 months (IQR 39-63). Median overall survival was 58 9 months 
(95% CI 50 8-69 1) in the group given ADT plus docetaxel and 54 2 months (42 
2-not reached) in that given ADT alone (hazard ratio 1 01, 95% CI 0 75-1 36). 72 
serious adverse events were reported in the group given ADT plus docetaxel, of 
which the most frequent were neutropenia (40 [21%]), febrile neutropenia (six 
[3%]), abnormal liver function tests (three [2%]), and neutropenia with 
infection (two [1%]). Four treatment-related deaths occurred in the ADT plus 
docetaxel group (two of which were neutropenia-related), after which the data 
monitoring committee recommended treatment with granulocyte colony-stimulating 
factor. After this recommendation, no further treatment-related deaths occurred. 
No serious adverse events were reported in the ADT alone group.
INTERPRETATION: Docetaxel should not be used as part of first-line treatment for 
patients with non-castrate metastatic prostate cancer.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2013.08.011
PMID: 24210084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. Eur Urol. 2014 Mar;65(3):565-73. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2013.10.032. Epub
2013  Nov 1.

Cardiovascular morbidity associated with gonadotropin releasing hormone agonists 
and an antagonist.

Albertsen PC(1), Klotz L(2), Tombal B(3), Grady J(4), Olesen TK(5), Nilsson 
J(6).

Author information:
(1)University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington, CT, USA. Electronic 
address: Albertsen@nso.uchc.edu.
(2)Division of Urology, University of Toronto, ON, Canada.
(3)University Clinics Saint Luc/Catholic University of Louvain, Brussels, 
Belgium.
(4)University of Connecticut Health Center, Farmington, CT, USA.
(5)Ferring Pharmaceuticals, Copenhagen, Denmark.
(6)Department of Clinical Sciences, Lund University, Sweden.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2014 Mar;65(3):574-6.
    J Urol. 2014 Apr;191(4):985.

BACKGROUND: Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) is associated with increased 
cardiovascular morbidity.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether cardiovascular morbidity differs following 
initiation of gonadotropin-releasing hormone (GnRH) agonists compared with an 
antagonist.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Pooled data from six phase 3 prospective 
randomized trials that recruited 2328 men between 2005 and 2012 to compare the 
efficacy of GnRH agonists against an antagonist. Men recruited had 
pathologically confirmed prostate cancer, an Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
score <2, a minimum life expectancy of 12 mo, and were naïve to ADT. Men were 
excluded if they had a prolonged baseline QT/corrected QT interval, other risk 
factors for heart failure, hypokalemia or a family history of long QT syndrome, 
or had another cancer diagnosed within 5 yr.
INTERVENTION: Men were randomized to receive a GnRH agonist or an antagonist for 
either 3-7 mo (n=642) or 12 mo (n=1686). Treatment groups were balanced for 
common baseline characteristics.
OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS AND STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Event analysis was based on death 
from any cause or cardiac events. Data documenting adverse experiences were 
classified based on the Medical Dictionary for Regulatory Activities. The 
following conditions defined a cardiac event: arterial embolic or thrombotic 
events, hemorrhagic or ischemic cerebrovascular conditions, myocardial 
infarction, and other ischemic heart disease. Kaplan-Meier curves and log-rank 
tests were used to compare time to a cardiovascular event or death.
RESULTS AND LIMITATIONS: Among men with preexisting cardiovascular disease, the 
risk of cardiac events within 1 yr of initiating therapy was significantly lower 
among men treated with a GnRH antagonist compared with GnRH agonists (hazard 
ratio: 0.44; 95% confidence interval, 0.26-0.74; p=0.002). Since our analysis is 
post hoc, our findings should only be interpreted as hypothesis generating.
CONCLUSIONS: GnRH antagonists appear to halve the number of cardiac events 
experienced by men with preexisting cardiovascular disease during the first year 
of ADT when compared to GnRH agonists.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2013.10.032
PMID: 24210090 [Indexed for MEDLINE]481. J Am Coll Surg. 2014 Jan;218(1):82-91. doi:
10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2013.09.015.  Epub 2013 Sep 29.

Cost effectiveness of mesh prophylaxis to prevent parastomal hernia in patients 
undergoing permanent colostomy for rectal cancer.

Lee L(1), Saleem A(2), Landry T(3), Latimer E(4), Chaudhury P(2), Feldman LS(5).

Author information:
(1)Steinberg-Bernstein Centre for Minimally-Invasive Surgery and Innovation, 
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Department of 
Surgery, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(2)Department of Surgery, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Quebec, 
Canada.
(3)Montreal General Hospital Library, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill 
University, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.
(5)Steinberg-Bernstein Centre for Minimally-Invasive Surgery and Innovation, 
McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Quebec, Canada; Department of 
Surgery, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, Quebec, Canada. Electronic 
address: liane.feldman@mcgill.ca.

BACKGROUND: Parastomal hernia (PSH) is common after stoma formation. Studies 
have reported that mesh prophylaxis reduces PSH, but there are no 
cost-effectiveness data. Our objective was to determine the cost effectiveness 
of mesh prophylaxis vs no prophylaxis to prevent PSH in patients undergoing 
abdominoperineal resection with permanent colostomy for rectal cancer.
STUDY DESIGN: Using a cohort Markov model, we modeled the costs and 
effectiveness of mesh prophylaxis vs no prophylaxis at the index operation in a 
cohort of 60-year-old patients undergoing abdominoperineal resection for rectal 
cancer during a time horizon of 5 years. Costs were expressed in 2012 Canadian 
dollars (CAD$) and effectiveness in quality-adjusted life years. Deterministic 
and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In patients with stage I to III rectal cancer, prophylactic mesh was 
dominant (less costly and more effective) compared with no mesh. In patients 
with stage IV disease, mesh prophylaxis was associated with higher cost (CAD$495 
more) and minimally increased effectiveness (0.05 additional quality-adjusted 
life years), resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of CAD$10,818 
per quality-adjusted life year. On sensitivity analyses, the decision was 
sensitive to the probability of mesh infection and the cost of the mesh, and 
method of diagnosing PSH.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients undergoing abdominoperineal resection with permanent 
colostomy for rectal cancer, mesh prophylaxis might be the less costly and more 
effective strategy compared with no mesh to prevent PSH in patients with stage I 
to III disease, and might be cost effective in patients with stage IV disease.

Copyright © 2014 American College of Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamcollsurg.2013.09.015
PMID: 24210147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


482. Endocrinol Nutr. 2014 Jan;61(1):47-51. doi: 10.1016/j.endonu.2013.03.010.
Epub  2013 Oct 25.

Are there healthy obese?

[Article in English, Spanish]

Griera Borrás JL(1), Contreras Gilbert J(2).

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Hipertensión y Factores de Riesgo, Servicio de Medicina Interna, 
Hospital Universitario Virgen Macarena, Sevilla, España. Electronic address: 
jlgriera@us.es.
(2)Unidad de Hipertensión y Factores de Riesgo, Servicio de Medicina Interna, 
Hospital Universitario Virgen Macarena, Sevilla, España.

It is currently postulated that not all obese individuals have to be considered 
as pathological subjects. From 10% to 20% of obese people studied do not show 
the metabolic changes common in obese patients. The term "healthy obese" has 
been coined to refer to these patients and differentiate them from the larger 
and more common group of pathological obese subjects. However, the definition of 
"healthy obese" is not clear. Use of "healthy obese" as a synonym for obese 
without metabolic complications is risky. Clinical markers such as insulin 
resistance are used to identify this pathology. It is not clear that healthy 
obese subjects have lower morbidity and mortality than pathologically obese 
patients. According to some authors, healthy obese would represent an early 
stage in evolution towards pathological obesity. There is no agreement as to the 
need to treat healthy obese subjects.

Copyright © 2012 SEEN. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.endonu.2013.03.010
PMID: 24210176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Am J Kidney Dis. 2014 Mar;63(3):491-9. doi: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2013.09.011. Epub
 2013 Nov 6.

Survival trends in ESRD patients compared with the general population in the 
United States.

van Walraven C(1), Manuel DG(2), Knoll G(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada; Ottawa Hospital 
Research Institute, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada; ICES@uOttawa Health 
Services Research Facility, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada. Electronic 
address: carlv@ohri.ca.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada; Ottawa Hospital 
Research Institute, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada; ICES@uOttawa Health 
Services Research Facility, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada.
(3)Faculty of Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada; Ottawa Hospital 
Research Institute, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Canada.

Comment in
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2014 Jul;64(1):156.
    Am J Kidney Dis. 2014 Jul;64(1):156.

BACKGROUND: Health care resources expended on patients with end-stage renal 
disease (ESRD) have increased extensively, with uncertain changes in outcomes. 
In this study, we examined survival trends in the United States in patients with 
ESRD receiving renal replacement therapy with long-term dialysis or 
transplantation relative to the general population.
STUDY DESIGN: Secondary analysis of records from the US Renal Data System.
SETTING & PARTICIPANTS: American adults receiving renal replacement therapy in 
1977, 1987, 1997, and 2007.
PREDICTOR: Year.
OUTCOME: 1-year survival.
MEASUREMENTS: Abridged period life tables were created for each cross-sectional 
patient group and were compared with general US population life tables to 
measure relative survival, calculated as differences in average survival between 
the general US and the ESRD populations.
RESULTS: From 1977 to 2007, ESRD patient groups became significantly older (mean 
age increased from 47 to 58 years) and sicker (ESRD due to diabetes increased 
from 9.1% to 38.2%; patients with a high death risk increased from 36.8% to 
50.7%). Unadjusted age-specific survival improved (for 50-year-olds, average 
life expectancy increased 8% from 7.3 years in 1977 to 7.9 years in 2007), but 
age-specific survival increased more extensively in the general US population 
(from 27.5 years in 1977 to 30.9 years in 2007; 12% improvement). Accounting for 
this, age-specific relative survival in patients with ESRD decreased (for 
50-year-olds, 20.2 life-years lost in 1977 vs 23.0 life-years lost in 2007).
LIMITATIONS: Our analysis controlled for neither patient comorbid conditions nor 
initial glomerular filtration rate at the start of renal replacement therapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Over the past 4 decades, age-specific survival in patients with 
ESRD has improved, but has not kept pace with that of the general US population. 
To be complete, future survival studies in patients with ESRD should focus on 
both temporal changes in survival within this group and changes relative to the 
general population.

Copyright © 2014 National Kidney Foundation, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.ajkd.2013.09.011
PMID: 24210591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. Maturitas. 2013 Dec;76(4):303-7. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2013.09.014. Epub
2013  Oct 25.

Longevity and diet. Myth or pragmatism?

Chrysohoou C(1), Stefanadis C.

Author information:
(1)First Cardiology Clinic, Hippokration Hospital, School of Medicine, 
University of Athens, Greece. Electronic address: chrysohoou@usa.net.

Longevity is a very complex phenomenon, because many environmental, behavioral, 
socio-demographic and dietary factors influence the physiological pathways of 
aging and life-expectancy. Nutrition has been recognized to have an important 
impact on overall mortality and morbidity; and its role in extending life 
expectancy has been the object of extensive scientific research. This paper 
reviews the pathophysiological mechanisms that potentially link aging with diet 
and the scientific evidence supporting the anti-aging effect of the traditional 
Mediterranean diet, as well as of some specific foods. The diet and several of 
its components have additionally been shown to have beneficial effects on the 
co-morbidities typical of elderly populations. Furthermore, the epigenetic 
effects of diet on the aging process - through calorie restriction and the 
consumption of foods like red wine, orange juice, probiotics and prebiotics - 
have attracted scientific interest. Some, such as dark chocolate, red wine, 
nuts, beans, avocados are being promoted as anti-aging foods, due to their 
anti-oxidative and anti-inflammatory properties. Finally, an important moderator 
in the relationship between diet, longevity and human health remains the 
socio-economic status of individual, as a healthy diet, due to its higher cost, 
is closely related to higher financial and educational status.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2013.09.014
PMID: 24210636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


485. Rev Esp Cir Ortop Traumatol. 2014 Jan-Feb;58(1):31-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.recot.2013.09.008. Epub 2013 Nov 8.

[Results after internal fixation of humerus distal fractures in patients over 
than 65 years old].

[Article in Spanish]

Serrano-Mateo L(1), Lopiz Y(2), León-Serrano C(2), García-Fernández C(2), 
López-Durán-Stern L(2), Marco F(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía Ortopédica y Traumatología, Hospital Universitario 
Clínico San Carlos, Madrid. España. Electronic address: 
l.serrano.mateo@gmail.com.
(2)Servicio de Cirugía Ortopédica y Traumatología, Hospital Universitario 
Clínico San Carlos, Madrid. España.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVE: Distal humerus fractures in the elderly frequently 
associated with poor bone quality and comminution, making it harder to achieve 
proper osteosynthesis. Our aim is to evaluate the radiological and functional 
results of open reduction and internal fixation of these fractures.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Retrospective study of 26 patients treated by open 
reduction and internal fixation between the years 2005-2010. Mean follow-up was 
42 months. At final follow-up, a radiography evaluation (Knirk and Jupiter 
score) and clinical examination using Mayo Elbow Performance Score and 
Quick-Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Score was performed. Mean age 
of the group was 76.8 years (65-89), with 83% of the patients being female. 
Sixteen patients suffered type C fractures and 8 type A by AO classification. 
All underwent posterior surgical approach.
RESULTS: Mean elbow flexion reached 118.86°, with a mean extension deficit of 
25°. More than 3-quarters (79.1%) of the patients showed 0-1 grade degenerative 
changes on the X-ray films at final follow-up. Functional results reached an 
average 19.87 points on Quick-Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder and Hand Score, 
and 85 points on Mayo Elbow Performance Score scores. Non-union occurred in 2 
cases: distal humerus in one patient and olecranon osteotomy in another. Ulnar 
nerve neuropraxia was recorded in 2 cases, and radial nerve in one. All 3 
recovered uneventfully. Revision surgery was required, with 2 patients needing 
hardware removal and one a new fixation.
DISCUSSION: Treatment by open reduction and internal fixation with plating in 
elderly people for type A and C distal humerus fractures gives good functional 
results regarding this population, and thus scarcely disturbs their quality of 
life.

Copyright © 2012 SECOT. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.recot.2013.09.008
PMID: 24210637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


486. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2015 Mar;32(2):189-97. doi:
10.1177/1049909113510963.  Epub 2013 Nov 7.

Connected health: cancer symptom and quality-of-life assessment using a tablet 
computer: a pilot study.

Aktas A(1), Hullihen B(1), Shrotriya S(1), Thomas S(1), Walsh D(2), Estfan B(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Solid Tumor Oncology, Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland 
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA The Harry R. Horvitz Center for Palliative 
Medicine, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.
(2)Department of Solid Tumor Oncology, Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland 
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA The Harry R. Horvitz Center for Palliative 
Medicine, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Trinity College Dublin and University College Dublin, First Floor, Old Chemistry 
Building Extension, Trinity College, Dublin 2, Ireland walsht@ccf.org.
(3)Department of Solid Tumor Oncology, Taussig Cancer Institute, Cleveland 
Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

Incorporation of tablet computers (TCs) into patient assessment may facilitate 
safe and secure data collection. We evaluated the usefulness and acceptability 
of a TC as an electronic self-report symptom assessment instrument. Research 
Electronic Data Capture Web-based application supported data capture. 
Information was collected and disseminated in real time and a structured format. 
Completed questionnaires were printed and given to the physician before the 
patient visit. Most participants completed the survey without assistance. 
Completion rate was 100%. The median global quality of life was high for all. 
More than half reported pain. Based on Edmonton Symptom Assessment System, the 
top 3 most common symptoms were tiredness, anxiety, and decreased well-being. 
Patient and physician acceptability for these quick and useful TC-based surveys 
was excellent.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909113510963
PMID: 24212101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


487. J Biol Chem. 2014 Jan 3;289(1):28-40. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.507954. Epub
2013  Nov 8.

Cancerous inhibitor of protein phosphatase 2A (CIP2A) protein is involved in 
centrosome separation through the regulation of NIMA (never in mitosis gene 
A)-related kinase 2 (NEK2) protein activity.

Jeong AL(1), Lee S, Park JS, Han S, Jang CY, Lim JS, Lee MS, Yang Y.

Author information:
(1)From the Research Center for Women's Disease, Department of Life Systems and.

Cancerous inhibitor of protein phosphatase 2A (CIP2A) is overexpressed in most 
human cancers and has been described as being involved in the progression of 
several human malignancies via the inhibition of protein phosphatase 2A (PP2A) 
activity toward c-Myc. However, with the exception of this role, the cellular 
function of CIP2A remains poorly understood. On the basis of yeast two-hybrid 
and coimmunoprecipitation assays, we demonstrate here that NIMA (never in 
mitosis gene A)-related kinase 2 (NEK2) is a binding partner for CIP2A. CIP2A 
exhibited dynamic changes in distribution, including the cytoplasm and 
centrosome, depending on the cell cycle stage. When CIP2A was depleted, 
centrosome separation and the mitotic spindle dynamics were impaired, resulting 
in the activation of spindle assembly checkpoint signaling and, ultimately, 
extension of the cell division time. Our data imply that CIP2A strongly 
interacts with NEK2 during G2/M phase, thereby enhancing NEK2 kinase activity to 
facilitate centrosome separation in a PP1- and PP2A-independent manner. In 
conclusion, CIP2A is involved in cell cycle progression through centrosome 
separation and mitotic spindle dynamics.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.507954
PMCID: PMC3879551
PMID: 24214971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


488. Biodemography Soc Biol. 2013;59(2):101-26. doi:
10.1080/19485565.2013.833779.

Cross-national patterns of intergenerational continuities in childbearing in 
developed countries.

Murphy M(1).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Social Policy , London School of Economics , London , United 
Kingdom.

Earlier work has shown that the association between the fertility of parents and 
the fertility of children has become stronger over time in some societies. This 
article updates and broadens the geographic coverage to assess the magnitude of 
intergenerational continuities in childbearing in developed and middle-income 
societies using data for 46 populations from 28 developed countries drawn from a 
number of recent large-scale survey programs. Robust positive intergenerational 
fertility correlations are found across these countries into the most recent 
period, and although there is no indication that the strength of the 
relationship is declining, the increasing trend does not appear to be 
continuing.

DOI: 10.1080/19485565.2013.833779
PMCID: PMC4160295
PMID: 24215254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


489. Expert Opin Pharmacother. 2013 Dec;14(18):2521-32. doi: 
10.1517/14656566.2013.852183. Epub 2013 Nov 12.

Optimal use of phosphate binders in chronic kidney disease.

Sonikian M(1), Papachristou E, Goumenos DS.

Author information:
