female advantage (1900-1919), while it occurred 50 years later in Sweden, Norway 
and in the Netherlands. The rise was followed by a more simultaneous fall in 
female advantage in the studied countries towards the end of the century, with 
exceptions of Japan and Spain. The different timing regarding the increase of 
women's advantage indicates that country-specific factors may have driven the 
rise in female advantage, while factors shared by all countries may underlie the 
simultaneous fall. More comprehensive, multi-disciplinary study of the evolution 
of the gender gap in old age could provide new hypotheses concerning the 
determinants of gendered differences in mortality.

DOI: 10.1007/s10433-013-0274-8
PMCID: PMC3851807
PMID: 24319404


768. Curr Pharm Des. 2014;20(31):5010-24. doi: 10.2174/1381612819666131206111352.

The metabolic syndrome and chronic liver disease.

Rosselli M, Lotersztajn S, Vizzutti F, Arena U, Pinzani M, Marra F(1).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Sperimentale e Clinica, Largo Brambilla, 3, I-50134 
Florence, Italy. fabio.marra@unifi.it.

The prevalence of the metabolic syndrome (MetS), a cluster of cardiovascular 
risk factors associated with obesity and insulin resistance, is dramatically 
increasing in Western and developing countries. This disorder is not only 
associated with a higher risk of appearance of type 2 diabetes and 
cardiovascular events, but impacts on the liver in different ways. Nonalcoholic 
fatty liver disease (NAFLD) is considered the hepatic manifestation of MetS, and 
is characterized by triglyceride accumulation and a variable degree of hepatic 
injury, inflammation, and repair. In the presence of significant hepatocellular 
injury and inflammation, the picture is defined 'nonalcoholic steatohepatitis' 
(NASH), that has the potential to progress to advanced fibrosis and cirrhosis. 
Diagnosis of NASH is based on a liver biopsy, and active search for noninvasive 
tests is ongoing. Progression of steatohepatitis to advanced fibrosis or 
cirrhosis has been shown in at least one third of patients followed with paired 
biopsies. Presence of NASH is associated with lower life expectancy, both due to 
liver-related death and to an increase in cardiovascular events. The appearance 
of NAFLD is mainly dependent on increased flow of fatty acids derived from an 
excess of lipolysis from insulin-resistant adipose tissue. Development of NASH 
is based on lipotoxicity and is influenced by signals derived from outside the 
liver and from intrahepatic activation of inflammatory and fibrogenic pathways. 
The presence of the MetS is also associated with worse outcomes in patients with 
cirrhosis due to any causes, and has complex interactions with hepatitis C virus 
infection. Moreover, MetS poses a higher risk of development of hepatocellular 
carcinoma, not necessarily through the development of NASH-related cirrhosis. In 
conclusion, the presence of metabolic alterations has a severe and multifaceted 
impact on the liver, and is responsible for a higher risk of liver-dependent and 
-independent mortality.

DOI: 10.2174/1381612819666131206111352
PMID: 24320032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. BMC Public Health. 2013 Dec 9;13:1147. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-1147.

Contributions of major smoking-related diseases to reduction in life expectancy 
associated with smoking in Chinese adults: a cross-sectional study.

Han W, Jiang J, Li J, Zeng X, Zou X, Wu Y, Chen Y, Zhao P, Hou L, Pang H, Liu 
B(1).

Author information:
(1)The Cancer Institute/Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 17 Pan 
Jia Yuan Nan Li, Beijing 100021, China. boqiliu@163.com.

BACKGROUND: Cigarette smoking is a prominent risk factor for a wide range of 
diseases. The current study aimed to evaluate the impact of smoking on deaths 
from major smoking-related diseases (neoplasms, vascular diseases and 
respiratory diseases) in Chinese adults by estimating the potential gains in 
life expectancy (LE) that would accrue from eliminating deaths from these 
diseases, and to determine the contribution of each disease to the reduction in 
LE associated with smoking.
METHODS: Two cohorts of Chinese smokers and non-smokers were constructed from a 
retrospective national mortality survey that had been conducted in 1989-1991 and 
included one million all-cause deaths among adults during 1986-1988 in 103 
geographical regions. For each cohort, potential gains in LE by eliminating 
deaths from each major smoking-related disease were estimated. The contributions 
of each disease to smoking-associated reduction in LE were assessed using the LE 
decomposition approach.
RESULTS: Among the major smoking-related diseases, it was estimated that 
elimination of vascular diseases would provide the greatest potential gain in LE 
(years), regardless of smoking status. The gains for smokers versus non-smokers 
in populations of urban men, urban women, rural men and rural women aged 35 
years were 3.5 vs. 4.3, 3.8 vs. 4.1, 2.4 vs. 3.0, and 2.6 vs. 2.9 years, 
respectively. Respiratory diseases contributed most to smoking-associated LE 
reductions in urban women, rural men and rural women of 43.6%, 46.4%, and 62.9%, 
respectively. In urban men, neoplasms contributed most to smoking-associated LE 
reduction, their contribution being estimated as 45.8%.
CONCLUSIONS: Respiratory disease has the greatest influence on the LE reduction 
associated with smoking. Thus, smoking prevention could significantly reduce 
deaths from respiratory disease and improve LE.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-1147
PMCID: PMC3979040
PMID: 24321034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. JAMA. 2013 Dec 25;310(24):2609-10. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.282612.

Incorporating lag time to benefit into prevention decisions for older adults.

Lee SJ(1), Leipzig RM(2), Walter LC(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, University of California, San Francisco.
(2)Brookdale Department of Geriatrics and Palliative Medicine, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2014 Apr 16;311(15):1566.
    JAMA. 2014 Apr 16;311(15):1567.
    JAMA. 2014 Apr 16;311(15):1567-8.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.282612
PMCID: PMC4049260
PMID: 24322396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. BMJ. 2013 Dec 9;347:f7139. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f7139.

The burden of air pollution on years of life lost in Beijing, China, 2004-08: 
retrospective regression analysis of daily deaths.

Guo Y(1), Li S, Tian Z, Pan X, Zhang J, Williams G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Population Health, 
University of Queensland, Brisbane, QLD 4006, Australia.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2014;348:g40.

OBJECTIVES: To better understand the burden of air pollution on deaths, we 
examined the effects of air pollutants on years of life lost (YLL) in Beijing, 
China.
DESIGN: Retrospective regression analysis using daily time series.
SETTING: 8 urban districts in Beijing, China.
PARTICIPANTS: 80 515 deaths (48 802 male, 31 713 female) recorded by the Beijing 
death classification system during 2004-08.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Associations between daily YLL and ambient air pollutants 
(particulate matter with aerodynamic diameter <2.5 µm (PM2.5), PM10, SO2, and 
NO2), after adjusting for long term trends, seasonality, day of the week, and 
weather conditions. We also examined mortality risk related to air pollutants.
RESULTS: Mean concentrations of daily PM2.5, PM10, SO2 and NO2 were 105.1 
μg/m(3), 144.6 μg/m(3), 48.6 μg/m(3), and 64.2 μg/m(3), respectively. All air 
pollutants had significant effects on years of life lost when we used single 
pollutant models. An interquartile range (IQR) increase in PM2.5, PM10, SO2, and 
NO2 was related to YLL increases of 15.8, 15.8, 16.2, and 15.1 years, 
respectively. The effects of air pollutants on YLL appeared acutely and lasted 
for two days (lag 0-1); these effects associated with an IQR increase in PM2.5 
were greater in women than men (11.1 (95% confidence interval 4.7 to 17.5) v 4.7 
(-2.9 to 12.3) YLL) and in people aged up to 65 years than those older than 65 
years (12.0 (2.9 to 21) v 3.8 (-0.9 to 8.6) YLL). The mortality risk associated 
with an IQR increase in PM2.5 was greater for people older than 65 years (2.5% 
(95% confidence interval 0.6% to 4.5%) increase of mortality) than those aged up 
to 65 years (0.7% (-0.8% to 2.2%)).
CONCLUSIONS: YLL provides a complementary measure for examining the effect of 
air pollutants on mortality. Increased YLL are associated with increased air 
pollution. This study highlights the need to reduce air pollution in Beijing, 
China, to protect the health of the population.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f7139
PMCID: PMC3898659
PMID: 24322399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf and 
declare: support from the National Natural Science Foundation of China and the 
Australia National Health and Medical Research Council for the submitted work; 
YG is supported by the Centre for Air Quality and Health Research and Evaluation 
and the University of Queensland School of Population Health; no other 
relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted 
work.


772. Consult Pharm. 2013 Dec;28(12):800-3. doi: 10.4140/TCP.n.2013.800.

Donepezil 23 mg: a brief insight on efficacy and safety concerns.

Nguyen MD(1), Salbu RL.

Author information:
(1)Touro College of Pharmacy, New York, New York.

As life expectancy increases, it is imperative that health care providers 
recognize the importance of safe medication use within an aging geriatric 
population. Dealing with a cohort that has different biological and medical 
demands requires pharmacists to pay particular attention to details when 
treating this subset of individuals. In particular, this manuscript will focus 
on Alzheimer's disease (AD) and considerations when dealing with new treatment 
options. The Food and Drug Administration's recent approval of the increased 
dosage strength, donepezil 23 mg, previously only available in 5 mg and 10 mg 
strengths, has raised efficacy and safety concerns. Reservations stem from 
unproven superiority along with an increased incidence of adverse events. The 
purpose of the manuscript is to provide a brief insight into these concerns and 
provide readers the knowledge necessary to make a clinically sound decision when 
treating patients with moderate-to-severe AD.

DOI: 10.4140/TCP.n.2013.800
PMID: 24322964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Lifetime Data Anal. 2015 Jan;21(1):42-74. doi: 10.1007/s10985-013-9286-0.
Epub  2013 Dec 10.

Local linear estimation of concordance probability with application to covariate 
effects models on association for bivariate failure-time data.

Ding AA(1), Hsieh JJ, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Northeastern University, Boston, MA , 02115, USA, 
a.ding@neu.edu.

Bivariate survival analysis has wide applications. In the presence of 
covariates, most literature focuses on studying their effects on the marginal 
distributions. However covariates can also affect the association between the 
two variables. In this article we consider the latter issue by proposing a 
nonstandard local linear estimator for the concordance probability as a function 
of covariates. Under the Clayton copula, the conditional concordance probability 
has a simple one-to-one correspondence with the copula parameter for different 
data structures including those subject to independent or dependent censoring 
and dependent truncation. The proposed method can be used to study how 
covariates affect the Clayton association parameter without specifying marginal 
regression models. Asymptotic properties of the proposed estimators are derived 
and their finite-sample performances are examined via simulations. Finally, for 
illustration, we apply the proposed method to analyze a bone marrow transplant 
data set.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-013-9286-0
PMID: 24323067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 1992 Jun;1(2):101-5.

Critical nutrition events in human history.

Wahlqvist ML(1).

Author information:
(1)Professor of Medicine, Monash University, Chairman Division of Medicine, 
Monash Medical Centre, Melbourne, Australia.

Decisions we make and implement about how people should be fed or feed 
themselves can have far-reaching effects on population, health and ecosystems 
and not simply those of an individual's health or even that of a community. 
Nutritionists and food policy makers are usually preoccupied by the need to 
optimize health, well-being and life expectancy in the light of a contemporary 
analysis of food-health relationships. Past pressures to feed human populations 
in Europe were temporarily resolved by the import from the Americas of maize and 
potatoes or sugar production with slave labour in various parts of the world. In 
China, the advent of rice production allowed population growth. In turn, the 
progressive increase in size of these populations has had long-term consequences 
for indigenous food cultures and people across the globe, often with their 
destruction and the reduction of food cultural diversity. Innovations in 
agricultural practice and food technology have also had unintended consequences. 
The development of dairying and dairy technology has contributed to the 
desertification of Africa and the increased fat consumption of Western peoples 
and their changing health patterns. The present rapid changes in the production, 
transport, processing and storage of food may solve some immediate health and 
population problems, but a more sophisticated and long-range analysis is 
required if we are to minimize any adverse effects and encourage a favourable 
impact on the human species and its habitat.

PMID: 24323087


775. Eur J Pediatr. 2014 May;173(5):629-36. doi: 10.1007/s00431-013-2221-2. Epub
2013  Dec 10.

Five-year experience of clinical ethics consultations in a pediatric teaching 
hospital.

Streuli JC(1), Staubli G, Pfändler-Poletti M, Baumann-Hölzle R, Ersch J.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Pediatrics, University Children Hospital Zurich, Steinwiesstrasse 
75, 8032, Zurich, Switzerland, streuli@ethik.uzh.ch.

Our retrospective study presents and evaluates clinical ethics consultations 
(CECs) in pediatrics as a structure for implementing hospital-wide ethics. We 
performed a descriptive and statistical analysis of clinical ethics decision 
making and its implementation in pediatric CECs at Zurich University Children's 
Hospital. Ninety-five CECs were held over 5 years for 80 patients. The care team 
reached a consensus treatment recommendation after one session in 75 
consultations (89 %) and on 82 of 84 ethical issues (98 %) after two or more 
sessions (11 repeats). Fifty-seven CECs recommended limited treatment and 23 
maximal treatment. Team recommendations were agreed outright by parents and/or 
patient in 59 of 73 consultations (81 %). Initial dissensus yielded to 
explanatory discussion or repeat CEC in seven consultations (10 %). In a further 
seven families (10 %), no solution was found within the CEC framework: five 
(7 %) required involvement of the child protection service, and in two families, 
the parents took their child elsewhere. Eventual team-parent/patient consensus 
was reached in 66 of 73 families (90 %) with documented parental/patient 
decisions (missing data, n = 11). Patient preference was assessable in ten CECs. 
Patient autonomy was part of the ethical dilemma in only three CECs. The Zurich 
clinical ethics structure produced a 98 % intra-team consensus rate in 95 CECs 
and reduced initial team-parent dissensus from 21 to 10 %. Success depends 
closely on a standardized CEC protocol and an underlying institutional clinical 
ethics framework embodying a comprehensive set of transparently articulated 
values and opinions, with regular evaluation of decisions and their consequences 
for care teams and families.

DOI: 10.1007/s00431-013-2221-2
PMID: 24323344 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. Age (Dordr). 2014 Apr;36(2):949-66. doi: 10.1007/s11357-013-9604-1. Epub
2013  Dec 10.

Health status and 6 years survival of 552 90+ Italian sib-ships recruited within 
the EU Project GEHA (GEnetics of Healthy Ageing).

Cevenini E(1), Cotichini R, Stazi MA, Toccaceli V, Palmas MG, Capri M, De Rango 
F, Dato S, Passarino G, Jeune B, Franceschi C; GEHA Project Consortium.

Collaborators: Bezrukov V, Blanché H, Bolund L, Christensen K, Deiana L, Gonos 
E, Hervonen A, Kirkwood TB, Kristensen P, Leon A, Pelicci PG, Perola M, Poulain 
M, Rea IM, Remacle J, Robine JM, Schreiber S, Sikora E, Slagboom P, Spazzafumo 
L, Toussaint O, Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)C.I.G.-Interdepartmental Centre "L. Galvani", University of Bologna, Piazza 
di Porta San Donato 1, 40126, Bologna, Italy.

In a scenario of increasing life expectancy worldwide, it is mandatory to 
identify the characteristics of a healthy aging phenotype, including survival 
predictors, and to disentangle those related to environment/lifestyle versus 
those related to familiarity/genetics. To this aim we comprehensively 
characterised a cohort of 1,160 Italian subjects of 90 years and over (90+, mean 
age 93 years; age range 90-106 years) followed for 6 years survival, belonging 
to 552 sib-ships (familiar longevity) recruited (2005-2008) within the EU-funded 
GEHA project in three Italian geographic areas (Northern, Central and Southern 
Italy) different for urban/rural and socio-economical characteristics. On the 
whole, the following factors emerged as significant predictors of survival after 
90 years of age: absence of cognitive impairment and physical disability, high 
hand grip strength scores and body mass index (BMI) values, "excellent/good" 
self-reported health, high haemoglobin and total cholesterol levels and low 
creatinine levels. These parameters, excluding BMI values, were also 
significantly associated within sib-ships, suggesting a strong familial/genetic 
component. Geographical micro-heterogeneity of survival predictors emerged, such 
as functional and physical status being more important in Southern than in 
Central and Northern Italy. In conclusion, we identified modifiable survival 
predictors related to specific domains, whose role and importance vary according 
to the geographic area considered and which can help in interpreting the genetic 
results obtained by the GEHA project, whose major aim is the comprehensive 
evaluation of phenotypic and genetic data.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-013-9604-1
PMCID: PMC4039258
PMID: 24323371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. Georgian Med News. 2013 Nov;(224):7-11.

The first kidney transplant in HIV infected patient in Georgia.

Chkhotua A(1), Gabunia P, Tataradze A, Nibladze N, Tsertsvadze T, Managadze L.

Author information:
(1)National Center of Urology; Infectious Diseases, AIDS and Clinical Immunology 
Research Center, Tbilisi, Georgia.

Highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has significantly improved the life 
expectancy of patients with HIV. As a result, kidney transplantation is 
considered an viable treatment option for HIV infected patients with end stage 
renal disease. The first living-related kidney transplant in Georgia has been 
performed between non-identical twin sisters in July 2013. In this paper we give 
the detailed case report and short overview of the existing literature. This is 
the first report of the successful kidney transplant in HIV infected patient in 
East Europe and former Soviet Union Countries including the Central Asia.

PMID: 24323956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


778. Front Aging Neurosci. 2013 Nov 26;5:80. doi: 10.3389/fnagi.2013.00080. 
eCollection 2013.

Tracking the Cognitive, Social, and Neuroanatomical Profile in Early 
Neurodegeneration: Type III Cockayne Syndrome.

Baez S(1), Couto B, Herrera E, Bocanegra Y, Trujillo-Orrego N, Madrigal-Zapata 
L, Cardona JF, Manes F, Ibanez A, Villegas A.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Experimental Psychology & Neuroscience (LPEN), Institute of 
Cognitive Neurology (INECO) & Institute of Neuroscience, Favaloro University , 
Buenos Aires , Argentina . ; National Scientific and Technical Research Council 
(CONICET) , Buenos Aires , Argentina ; Pontifical Catholic University of 
Argentina , Buenos Aires , Argentina ; UDP-INECO Foundation Core on Neuroscience 
(UIFCoN), Diego Portales University , Santiago , Chile.

Cockayne syndrome (CS) is an autosomal recessive disease associated with 
premature aging, progressive multiorgan degeneration, and nervous system 
abnormalities including cerebral and cerebellar atrophy, brain calcifications, 
and white matter abnormalities. Although several clinical descriptions of CS 
patients have reported developmental delay and cognitive impairment with 
relative preservation of social skills, no previous studies have carried out a 
comprehensive neuropsychological and social cognition assessment. Furthermore, 
no previous research in individuals with CS has examined the relationship 
between brain atrophy and performance on neuropsychological and social cognition 
tests. This study describes the case of an atypical late-onset type III CS 
patient who exceeds the mean life expectancy of individuals with this pathology. 
The patient and a group of healthy controls underwent a comprehensive assessment 
that included multiple neuropsychological and social cognition (emotion 
recognition, theory of mind, and empathy) tasks. In addition, we compared the 
pattern of atrophy in the patient to controls and to its concordance with ERCC8 
gene expression in a healthy brain. The results showed memory, language, and 
executive deficits that contrast with the relative preservation of social 
cognition skills. The cognitive profile of the patient was consistent with his 
pattern of global cerebral and cerebellar loss of gray matter volume (frontal 
structures, bilateral cerebellum, basal ganglia, temporal lobe, and 
occipito-temporal/occipito-parietal regions), which in turn was anatomically 
consistent with the ERCC8 gene expression level in a healthy donor's brain. The 
study of exceptional cases, such as the one described here, is fundamental to 
elucidating the processes that affect the brain in premature aging diseases, and 
such studies provide an important source of information for understanding the 
problems associated with normal and pathological aging.

DOI: 10.3389/fnagi.2013.00080
PMCID: PMC3840614
PMID: 24324434


779. Front Microbiol. 2013 Nov 26;4:350. doi: 10.3389/fmicb.2013.00350.
eCollection  2013.

Sorbic acid stress activates the Candida glabrata high osmolarity glycerol MAP 
kinase pathway.

Jandric Z(1), Gregori C, Klopf E, Radolf M, Schüller C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Genetics and Cell Biology (DAGZ), University of Natural 
Resources and Life Sciences Vienna, Austria.

Weak organic acids such as sorbic acid are important food preservatives and 
powerful fungistatic agents. These compounds accumulate in the cytosol and 
disturb the cellular pH and energy homeostasis. Candida glabrata is in many 
aspects similar to Saccharomyces cerevisiae. However, with regard to 
confrontation to sorbic acid, two of the principal response pathways behave 
differently in C. glabrata. In yeast, sorbic acid stress causes activation of 
many genes via the transcription factors Msn2 and Msn4. The C. glabrata homologs 
CgMsn2 and CgMsn4 are apparently not activated by sorbic acid. In contrast, in 
C. glabrata the high osmolarity glycerol (HOG) pathway is activated by sorbic 
acid. Here we show that the MAP kinase of the HOG pathway, CgHog1, becomes 
phosphorylated and has a function for weak acid stress resistance. Transcript 
profiling of weak acid treated C. glabrata cells suggests a broad and very 
similar response pattern of cells lacking CgHog1 compared to wild type which is 
over lapping with but distinct from S. cerevisiae. The PDR12 gene was the 
highest induced gene in both species and it required CgHog1 for full expression. 
Our results support flexibility of the response cues for general stress 
signaling pathways, even between closely related yeasts, and functional 
extension of a specific response pathway.

DOI: 10.3389/fmicb.2013.00350
PMCID: PMC3840799
PMID: 24324463


780. Rocz Panstw Zakl Hig. 2013;64(3):205-10.

Trends of premature mortality in Swietokrzyskie Province (Poland), years 
2002-2010.

Gózdz S(1), Krzyzak M, Maślach D, Wróbel M, Bielska-Lasota M.

Author information:
(1)Holycross Cancer Centre, Kielce, Poland. stanislaw.gozdz@onkol.kielce.pl

BACKGROUND: Premature mortality in younger age groups influences the society as 
far as social and economic aspects are concerned. Therefore, it is important to 
come up with a tool which will allow to assess them, and will enable to 
implement only these health care measures that bring tangible benefits. That is 
the reason for introducing PYLL rate (PYLL - potential years of life lost), 
which is an addition to the analysis of premature mortality as it includes the 
number of deaths due to a particular cause and the age at death.
OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to analyse the level and trends of PYLL 
rate according to death causes in years 2002 -2010 in Swietokrzyskie Province.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The material for the analysis was the information from the 
Central Statistical Office on the number of deaths due to all causes registered 
among the inhabitants of Swiytokrzyskie Province in years 2002-2010. Causes of 
death were coded according to the 10th revision of the International 
Classification of Diseases. The analysis of premature mortality was carried out 
with the use of PYLL rate. PYLL rate was calculated according to the method 
proposed by Romeder, according to which the premature mortality was defined as 
death before the age of 70. The analysis of time trends of PYLL rate and the APC 
(annual percent change) of the PYLL rate were calculated using jointpoint model 
as well as the Jointpoint Regression Program (Version 4.0.1 - January 2013).
RESULTS: In men, in years 2002 - 2007 PYLL rate increased by 1.5% per year 
(p<0.05). From year 2007 the trend went downward and PYLL rate decreased on 
average by 3.1% per year till year 2010. External causes of death, 
cardiovascular diseases and cancers in years 2002 - 2010 were the reason for 
almost 74.0% PYLL in men. In year 2010 PYLL rate due to all death causes 
amounted to 8913.8/105 and was three times higher than in women (2975.5/10(5)). 
In women, however, during the analysed period PYLL rate did not change 
significantly, and was dominated by cancers, cardiovascular diseases and 
external death causes. Similarly to men, those three groups of death causes were 
responsible for an average 76.0% PYLL.
CONCLUSIONS: The analysis of the causes of premature mortality in Swietokrzyskie 
Province shows that in the majority of cases it is due to preventable deaths, 
which calls for the necessity of more intensive measures in primary and 
secondary prevention as well as the improvement in treatment standards, mainly 
of cardiovascular diseases, cancers, injuries and accidents.

PMID: 24325087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Dec;17(58):v-vi, 1-192. doi: 10.3310/hta17580.

Economic modelling of diagnostic and treatment pathways in National Institute 
for Health and Care Excellence clinical guidelines: the Modelling Algorithm 
Pathways in Guidelines (MAPGuide) project.

Lord J(1), Willis S, Eatock J, Tappenden P, Trapero-Bertran M, Miners A, Crossan 
C, Westby M, Anagnostou A, Taylor S, Mavranezouli I, Wonderling D, Alderson P, 
Ruiz F.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) clinical 
guidelines (CGs) make recommendations across large, complex care pathways for 
broad groups of patients. They rely on cost-effectiveness evidence from the 
literature and from new analyses for selected high-priority topics. An 
alternative approach would be to build a model of the full care pathway and to 
use this as a platform to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of multiple topics 
across the guideline recommendations.
OBJECTIVES: In this project we aimed to test the feasibility of building full 
guideline models for NICE guidelines and to assess if, and how, such models can 
be used as a basis for cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA).
DATA SOURCES: A 'best evidence' approach was used to inform the model 
parameters. Data were drawn from the guideline documentation, advice from 
clinical experts and rapid literature reviews on selected topics. Where possible 
we relied on good-quality, recent UK systematic reviews and meta-analyses.
REVIEW METHODS: Two published NICE guidelines were used as case studies: 
prostate cancer and atrial fibrillation (AF). Discrete event simulation (DES) 
was used to model the recommended care pathways and to estimate consequent costs 
and outcomes. For each guideline, researchers not involved in model development 
collated a shortlist of topics suggested for updating. The modelling teams then 
attempted to evaluate options related to these topics. Cost-effectiveness 
results were compared with opinions about the importance of the topics elicited 
in a survey of stakeholders.
RESULTS: The modelling teams developed simulations of the guideline pathways and 
disease processes. Development took longer and required more analytical time 
than anticipated. Estimates of cost-effectiveness were produced for six of the 
nine prostate cancer topics considered, and for five of eight AF topics. The 
other topics were not evaluated owing to lack of data or time constraints. The 
modelled results suggested 'economic priorities' for an update that differed 
from priorities expressed in the stakeholder survey.
LIMITATIONS: We did not conduct systematic reviews to inform the model 
parameters, and so the results might not reflect all current evidence. Data 
limitations and time constraints restricted the number of analyses that we could 
conduct. We were also unable to obtain feedback from guideline stakeholders 
about the usefulness of the models within project time scales.
CONCLUSIONS: Discrete event simulation can be used to model full guideline 
pathways for CEA, although this requires a substantial investment of clinical 
and analytic time and expertise. For some topics lack of data may limit the 
potential for modelling. There are also uncertainties over the accessibility and 
adaptability of full guideline models. However, full guideline modelling offers 
the potential to strengthen and extend the analytical basis of NICE's CGs. 
Further work is needed to extend the analysis of our case study models to 
estimate population-level budget and health impacts. The practical usefulness of 
our models to guideline developers and users should also be investigated, as 
should the feasibility and usefulness of whole guideline modelling alongside 
development of a new CG.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the Medical Research Council and the 
National Institute for Health Research through the Methodology Research 
Programme [grant number G0901504] and will be published in full in Health 
Technology Assessment; Vol. 17, No. 58. See the NIHR Journals Library website 
for further project information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17580
PMCID: PMC4781470
PMID: 24325843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. Value Health. 2013 Dec;16(8):1111-22. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.09.006. Epub
2013  Nov 11.

An integrated approach to evaluating alternative risk prediction strategies: a 
case study comparing alternative approaches for preventing invasive fungal 
disease.

Sadique Z(1), Grieve R, Harrison DA, Jit M, Allen E, Rowan KM; FIRE Study 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research & Policy, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK. Electronic address: Zia.Sadique@lshtm.ac.uk.

OBJECTIVES: This article proposes an integrated approach to the development, 
validation, and evaluation of new risk prediction models illustrated with the 
Fungal Infection Risk Evaluation study, which developed risk models to identify 
non-neutropenic, critically ill adult patients at high risk of invasive fungal 
disease (IFD).
METHODS: Our decision-analytical model compared alternative strategies for 
preventing IFD at up to three clinical decision time points (critical care 
admission, after 24 hours, and end of day 3), followed with antifungal 
prophylaxis for those judged "high" risk versus "no formal risk assessment." We 
developed prognostic models to predict the risk of IFD before critical care unit 
discharge, with data from 35,455 admissions to 70 UK adult, critical care units, 
and validated the models externally. The decision model was populated with 
positive predictive values and negative predictive values from the best-fitting 
risk models. We projected lifetime cost-effectiveness and expected value of 
partial perfect information for groups of parameters.
RESULTS: The risk prediction models performed well in internal and external 
validation. Risk assessment and prophylaxis at the end of day 3 was the most 
cost-effective strategy at the 2% and 1% risk threshold. Risk assessment at each 
time point was the most cost-effective strategy at a 0.5% risk threshold. 
Expected values of partial perfect information were high for positive predictive 
values or negative predictive values (£11 million-£13 million) and 
quality-adjusted life-years (£11 million).
CONCLUSIONS: It is cost-effective to formally assess the risk of IFD for 
non-neutropenic, critically ill adult patients. This integrated approach to 
developing and evaluating risk models is useful for informing clinical practice 
and future research investment.

© 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research (ISPOR) 
Published by International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes Research 
(ISPOR) All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.09.006
PMID: 24326164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Value Health. 2013 Dec;16(8):1123-32. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.08.2294. Epub
 2013 Oct 3.

Mifamurtide for high-grade, resectable, nonmetastatic osteosarcoma following 
surgical resection: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Johal S(1), Ralston S, Knight C.

Author information:
(1)RTI Health Solutions, Velocity House - Business and Conference Centre, 
Sheffield, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Mifamurtide is an immune macrophage stimulant that when added to 
standard chemotherapy has demonstrated survival benefit for newly diagnosed 
osteosarcoma. The objectives of this study were to investigate the 
cost-effectiveness of adding mifamurtide to standard three- or four-agent 
chemotherapy for high-grade, resectable, nonmetastatic osteosarcoma following 
surgical resection and the issues of obtaining robust cost-effectiveness 
estimates for ultra-orphan drugs, given the shortage of data.
METHODS: An economic evaluation was conducted from the perspective of the UK's 
National Health Service as part of the manufacturer's submission to the National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence. The disease process was simplified to 
a transition through a series of health states, modeled by using a Markov 
approach. Data to inform the model were derived from patient-level data of Study 
INT-0133, published literature, and expert opinion. The final efficacy measure 
was life-years gained (LYG), and utilities were used to obtain quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs).
RESULTS: For a 60-year time frame and a discount rate of 3.5% for outcomes, 
patients receiving mifamurtide benefited from an average additional 1.57 years 
of life and 1.34 QALYs, compared with patients receiving chemotherapy alone, 
giving an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of £58,737 per LYG and 
£68,734 per QALY. Because treatment effects were both substantial in restoring 
health and sustained over a very long period, the National Institute for Health 
and Care Excellence changed its guidance to allow a discount of 1.5% for 
outcomes to be applied in these special circumstances. By using this discount 
factor, it was found that patients receiving mifamurtide had an average 
additional 2.58 years of life and 2.20 QALYs compared with patients receiving 
chemotherapy alone, resulting in an ICER of £35,765 per LYG and £41,933 per 
QALY.
CONCLUSION: Mifamurtide's ICER is cost-effective compared with that of other 
orphan and ultra-orphan drugs, for which prices and corresponding 
cost-effectiveness estimates are high.

Copyright © 2013 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.08.2294
PMID: 24326165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. J Oncol Pract. 2014 Mar;10(2):e86-92. doi: 10.1200/JOP.2013.001142. Epub
2013  Dec 10.

Cost effectiveness of a survivorship care plan for breast cancer survivors.

Coyle D(1), Grunfeld E, Coyle K, Pond G, Julian JA, Levine MN.

Author information:
(1)University of Ottawa; Ottawa Hospital Research Institute; Applied Health 
Economics Research Unit, Ottawa; Ontario Institute for Cancer Research; 
University of Toronto, Toronto; Ontario Clinical Oncology Group; McMaster 
University; and Juravinski Regional Cancer Centre, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    J Oncol Pract. 2014 Mar;10(2):e93-4.

PURPOSE: Survivorship care plans (SCPs) are recommended for patients who have 
completed primary treatment and are transitioning to routine follow-up care. 
However, SCPs may be costly, and their effectiveness is unproven. The study 
objective was to assess the cost effectiveness of an SCP for breast cancer 
survivors transitioning to routine follow-up care with their own primary care 
physician (PCP) using data from a recent randomized controlled trial (RCT).
METHODS: Resource use and utility data for 408 patients with breast cancer 
enrolled in the RCT comparing an SCP with standard care (no SCP) were used. The 
intervention group received a 30-minute educational session with a nurse and 
their SCP, and their PCPs received the SCP plus a full guideline on follow-up. 
Analysis assessed the societal costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for 
the intervention group and the control group over the 2-year follow-up of the 
RCT. Uncertainty concerning cost effectiveness was assessed through 
nonparametric bootstrapping and deterministic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The no-SCP group had better outcomes than the SCP group: total costs 
per patient were lower for standard care (Canadian $698 v $765), and total QALYs 
were almost equivalent (1.42 for standard care v 1.41 for the SCP). The 
probability that the SCP was cost effective was 0.26 at a threshold value of a 
QALY of $50,000. A variety of sensitivity analyses did not change the 
conclusions of the analysis.
CONCLUSION: This SCP would be costly to introduce and would not be a cost 
effective use of scarce health care resources.

DOI: 10.1200/JOP.2013.001142
PMID: 24326740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. J Pediatr Hematol Oncol. 2014 Mar;36(2):134-9. doi: 
10.1097/MPH.0000000000000069.

Refractory iron-deficiency anemia and autoimmune atrophic gastritis in pediatric 
age group: analysis of 8 clinical cases.

Miguel N(1), Costa E, Santalha M Jr, Lima R, Vizcaino JR, Pereira F, Barbot J.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Pediatrics, Centro Hospitalar Trás-os-Montes e Alto Douro, 
Vila Real Departments of †Hematology §Pediatric Gastroenterology ∥Pathology, 
Centro Hospitalar do Porto, Oporto ‡Department of Pediatrics, Centro Hospitalar 
do Alto Ave, Guimarães, Portugal.

INTRODUCTION: Refractory iron-deficiency anemia with no obvious etiology in 
pediatric age can be a puzzling problem. Screening of iron malabsorption 
conditions, including autoimmune atrophic gastritis (AAG), is emerging as a 
priority in the investigational procedure.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Retrospective analysis of clinical process of 
children/adolescents with the diagnosis of AAG.
RESULTS: Eight patients (aged between 4.7 and 18 years old) were identified. The 
diagnosis was triggered on the basis of high serum gastrin levels and strong 
positivity of antiparietal cell antibodies. Upper endoscopy and biopsy revealed 
atrophic gastritis in all patients, with 2 of them with intestinal metaplasia. 
Four patients presented with Helicobacter pylori infection object of eradication 
therapy. After a medium follow-up of 36.6 months, antiparietal cell antibodies 
and hypergastrinemia did not show evidence of regression. Of the 3 patients who 
underwent endoscopic reevaluation, a similar anatomo-pathologic pattern was 
observed in 2 and intestinal metaplasia in 1 patient. Normalization of 
hematological parameters was achieved, using alternative iron formulas.
CONCLUSIONS: AAG must be recognized as a pathology affecting pediatric patients. 
Gastric autoimmune lesion is a chronic process with potential evolution to 
malignancy. Management guidelines in childhood are not available. Their 
elaboration is important considering an important risk factor in these age 
group: a long life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1097/MPH.0000000000000069
PMID: 24327126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. J Ment Health Policy Econ. 2013 Sep;16(3):131-41.

Perspectives: the mental health care gap in intellectual disabilities in Spain: 
impact analysis and knowledge-to-action plan.

Salvador-Carulla L(1), Martinez-Leal R, Poole M, Salinas-Perez JA, Tamarit J, 
Garcia-Ibanez J, Almenara-Barrios J, Alvarez-Galvez J.

Author information:
(1)Centre for disability Research and Policy Faculty of Health Sciences, 
University of Sydney , 75 East St Lidcombe, NSW 2141, Australia, 
luis.salvador-carulla@sydney.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Intellectual developmental disorder or Intellectual disability (ID) 
is a prevalent condition with a high impact along the life-span particularly 
when associated to other mental disorders (MD).
SPECIFIC AIM: To estimate the unmet needs and to design a knowledge to action 
plan to reduce the care gap in ID-MD in Spain.
METHOD: We followed a 5-step `maxi' impact assessment and a mixed 
qualitative/quantitative design including expert panels, secondary analysis of 
databases and a prospective survey in the 17 regions in Spain. Schizophrenia was 
used as comparator due to similar prevalence rates and burden.
RESULTS: Persons with ID-MD had ten times less outpatient contacts and hospital 
admissions than patients with schizophrenia. The outpatient case load was 2.31% 
in ID and 14.6% in schizophrenia. ID had the lowest hospitalization rate amongst 
all mental disorders but the highest length of stay. The expert panel estimated 
that half of persons with ID-MD are not adequately assessed and 95% do not 
receive the required care in Spain. Basic care needs include 6.5 beds and an 
ID-MD outpatient service per 1 million population. At least 134 specialized 
psychiatrists and psychologists and 277 beds are needed to reach the minimum 
standards in Spain.
CONCLUSION: This study quantifies the ID-MD care gap in Spain and the basic 
specialized services needed. In spite of the societal and health implications of 
ID-MD the knowledge-to-action plan had a modest impact limited at the regions 
where ID-MD programmes were already implemented.
IMPLICATIONS FOR HEALTH POLICY: Specific priority setting on ID-MH should be 
incorporated to mental health strategy at the Ministry of Health within a 
broader health and ID plan. National and regional policies should incorporate an 
integrative care approach through the life cycle. The development of excellence 
centers on ID-MD and a national observatory on this topic should be encouraged.

PMID: 24327483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. World J Pediatr Congenit Heart Surg. 2013 Oct;4(4):385-91. doi: 
10.1177/2150135113498785.

Aortic cusp extension for surgical correction of rheumatic aortic valve 
insufficiency in children.

Kalangos A(1), Myers PO.

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Surgery, Geneva University Hospital and Faculty of 
Medicine, Geneva, Switzerland.

Surgical management of aortic insufficiency in the young is problematic because 
of the lack of an ideal valve substitute. Potential advantages of aortic valve 
repair include low incidences of thromboembolism and endocarditis, avoiding 
conduit replacements, the maintenance of growth potential, and improved quality 
of life. Aortic valve repair is still far from fulfilling the three key factors 
that have allowed the phenomenal development of mitral valve repair 
(standardization, reproducibility, and stable long-term results); however, 
techniques of aortic valve repair have been refined, and subsets of patients 
amenable to repair have been identified. We have focused on the oldest technique 
of aortic valve repair, cusp extension, focusing on children with rheumatic 
aortic insufficiency. Among 77 children operated from 2003 to 2007, there was 
one early death from ventricular failure and one late death from sudden cardiac 
arrhythmia. During a mean follow-up of 12.8 ± 5.9 years, there were 16 (20.5%) 
reoperations on the aortic valve, at a median of 3.4 years (range, 2 months to 
18.3 years) from repair. Freedom from aortic valve reoperation was 96.2% ± 2.2% 
at 1 year, 94.9% ± 2.5% at 2 years, 88.5% ± 3.6% at 5 years, 81.7% ± 4.4% at 10 
years, 79.7% ± 4.8% at 15 years, and 76.2% ± 5.7% at 20 years. Although aortic 
cusp extension is technically more demanding, it remains particularly more 
suitable in the context of evolving rheumatic aortic insufficiency in children 
with a small aortic annulus as a bridge surgical approach to late aortic valve 
replacement with a larger valvular prosthesis.

DOI: 10.1177/2150135113498785
PMID: 24327632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Palliat Med. 2014 Apr;28(4):312-7. doi: 10.1177/0269216313514126. Epub 2013
Dec  10.

A survey of prognosis discussions held by health-care providers who request 
palliative care consultation.

Chang A(1), Datta-Barua I, McLaughlin B, Daly B.

Author information:
(1)1Previously at School of Medicine, Case Western Reserve University, 
Cleveland, OH, USA.

BACKGROUND: Patient misunderstandings about prognosis may be related to lack of 
communication.
AIM: This study aimed to examine prognosis discussions held with hospitalized 
patients for whom palliative care consultations were requested, and if prognosis 
discussions did not occur, to explore why not.
DESIGN: This was a survey conducted over the telephone from a convenience sample 
of health-care providers who requested palliative care consultations. 
Respondents were asked about whether prognosis had been discussed with the 
patient and the topics addressed.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 65 health-care providers who called to request a 
consultation from the palliative care team in a large academic medical center in 
the United States.
RESULTS: Of the 65 responses, 45 (69.2%) subjects reported that a prognosis 
discussion had occurred, while 15 (23.1%) reported that a prognosis discussion 
had not taken place. Among the surveys reporting a prognosis discussion, a 
majority of providers responded that most aspects of prognosis were discussed, 
with the exceptions of life expectancy, survival rates/statistics, and 
psychosocial concerns. When the prognosis discussion had not occurred, the most 
common reasons for omitting the prognosis discussion included difficulty in 
determining prognosis, the perception that the patient already knew his or her 
prognosis, and the belief that the prognosis discussion was better suited for a 
different specialty.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this study highlight the uncertainty that primary 
team providers in the academic hospital environment have with prognostication, 
which is a complex process for which this set of providers, composed primarily 
of medical trainees and nurses, may not have had sufficient training.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216313514126
PMID: 24327660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Am J Public Health. 2014 Nov;104(11):2163-9. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301494.
Epub  2013 Dec 12.

Analyzing whether countries are equally efficient at improving longevity for men 
and women.

Barthold D(1), Nandi A, Mendoza Rodríguez JM, Heymann J.

Author information:
(1)Douglas Barthold, Arijit Nandi, and José M. Mendoza Rodríguez are with the 
Institute for Health and Social Policy, McGill University, Montreal, Quebec. 
Douglas Barthold is also with the Department of Economics, McGill University. 
Arijit Nandi is also with the Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics, and 
Occupational Health, McGill University. Jody Heymann is with the Fielding School 
of Public Health, University of California, Los Angeles.

OBJECTIVES: We examined the efficiency of country-specific health care spending 
in improving life expectancies for men and women.
METHODS: We estimated efficiencies of health care spending for 27 Organisation 
for Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries during the period 
1991 to 2007 using multivariable regression models, including country 
fixed-effects and controlling for time-varying levels of national social 
expenditures, economic development, and health behaviors.
RESULTS: Findings indicated robust differences in health-spending efficiency. A 
1% annual increase in health expenditures was associated with percent changes in 
life expectancy ranging from 0.020 in the United States (95% confidence interval 
[CI] = 0.008, 0.032) to 0.121 in Germany (95% CI = 0.099, 0.143). 
Health-spending increases were associated with greater life expectancy 
improvements for men than for women in nearly every OECD country.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to our knowledge to estimate the effect of 
country-specific health expenditures on life expectancies of men and women. 
Future work understanding the determinants of these differences has the 
potential to improve the overall efficiency and equity of national health 
systems.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301494
PMCID: PMC4202956
PMID: 24328639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Am J Public Health. 2014 Feb;104(2):332-7. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301678.
Epub  2013 Dec 12.

Anti-gay prejudice and all-cause mortality among heterosexuals in the United 
States.

Hatzenbuehler ML(1), Bellatorre A, Muennig P.

Author information:
(1)Mark L. Hatzenbuehler is with the Department of Sociomedical Sciences and 
Peter Muennig is with the Department of Health Policy and Management, Mailman 
School of Public Health, Columbia University, New York, NY. Anna Bellatorre is 
with the Department of Sociology, University of Nebraska, Lincoln.

OBJECTIVES: We determined whether individuals who harbor antigay prejudice 
experience elevated mortality risk.
METHODS: Data on heterosexual sexual orientation (n = 20,226, aged 18-89 years), 
antigay attitudes, and mortality risk factors came from the General Social 
Survey, which was linked to mortality data from the National Death Index 
(1988-2008). We used Cox proportional hazard models to examine whether antigay 
prejudice was associated with mortality risk among heterosexuals.
RESULTS: Heterosexuals who reported higher levels of antigay prejudice had 
higher mortality risk than those who reported lower levels (hazard ratio 
[HR] = 1.25; 95% confidence interval [CI] = 1.09, 1.42), with control for 
multiple risk factors for mortality, including demographics, socioeconomic 
status, and fair or poor self-rated health. This result translates into a life 
expectancy difference of approximately 2.5 years (95% CI = 1.0, 4.0 years) 
between individuals with high versus low levels of antigay prejudice. 
Furthermore, in sensitivity analyses, antigay prejudice was specifically 
associated with increased risk of cardiovascular-related causes of death in 
fully adjusted models (HR = 1.29; 95% CI = 1.04, 1.60).
CONCLUSIONS: The findings contribute to a growing body of research suggesting 
that reducing prejudice may improve the health of both minority and majority 
populations.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301678
PMCID: PMC3935683
PMID: 24328664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. J Med Econ. 2014 Feb;17(2):132-41. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.869500. Epub
2013  Dec 12.

Cost effectiveness analysis of a next generation risk assessment score for 
cardiovascular disease.

Hytopoulos E(1), Lee ML, Beggs M, French C, Tong KB.

Author information:
(1)Aviir, Inc. , Irvine, CA , USA.

OBJECTIVES: The goal of this study is to determine the cost-effectiveness of 
MIRISK VP, a next generation coronary heart disease risk assessment score, in 
correctly reclassifying and appropriately treating asymptomatic, intermediate 
risk patients.
STUDY DESIGN: A Markov model was employed with simulated subjects based on the 
Multi-Ethnic Study of Atherosclerosis (MESA). This study evaluated three 
treatment strategies: (i) practice at MESA enrollment, (ii) current guidelines, 
and (iii) MIRISK VP in MESA.
METHODS: The model assessed patient healthcare costs and outcomes, expressed in 
terms of life years and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), over the lifetime 
of the cohort from the provider and payer perspective. A total of 50,000 
hypothetical individuals were used in the model. A sensitivity analysis was 
conducted (based on the various input parameters) for the entire cohort and also 
for individuals aged 65 and older.
RESULTS: Guiding treatment with MIRISK VP leads to the highest net monetary 
benefits when compared to the 'Practice at MESA Enrollment' or to the 'Current 
Guidelines' strategies. MIRISK VP resulted in a lower mortality rate from any 
CHD event and a modest increase in QALY of 0.12-0.17 years compared to the other 
two approaches.
LIMITATIONS: This study has limitations of not comparing performance against 
strategies other than the FRS, the results are simulated as with all models, the 
model does not incorporate indirect healthcare costs, and the impact of patient 
or physician behaviors on outcomes were not taken into account.
CONCLUSIONS: MIRISK VP has the potential to improve patient outcomes compared to 
the alternative strategies. It is marginally more costly than both the 'Practice 
