and 47.5 in the Care as usual group (p = 0.01)). The tendency toward a better 
childbirth experience in the hypnosis group was also seen in subgroup analyses 
for mode of delivery and for levels of fear.
CONCLUSION: In this large randomized controlled trial, a brief course in 
self-hypnosis improved the women's childbirth experience.

© 2013, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2013, Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/birt.12071
PMID: 24344708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


839. Int J Inj Contr Saf Promot. 2014;21(4):382-7. doi:
10.1080/17457300.2013.843569.  Epub 2013 Dec 17.

Years of life lost among Iranian people killed in the Iraq-Iran war: the 25-year 
perspective.

Mousavi B(1), Moradi-Lakeh M, Karbakhsh M, Soroush M.

Author information:
(1)a Prevention Department , Janbazan Medical and Engineering Research Center 
(JMERC) , Tehran , Iran.

To estimate the years of life lost (YLL), registered deaths due to Iraq-Iran war 
(1980-2005) were identified considering ICD10 codes of Y36.0 to Y36.9. Estimated 
YLL was calculated by taking age-weighting options and discount rates. 
Population life expectancy in each corresponding year was retrieved from the 
national health database. During 1980-2005, 178,298 Iranian men and 5325 Iranian 
women died in war. The mean death age was 22.8 ± 9 years, 96.6% occurred during 
the years of war (September 1980-August 1988). In the years after the war 
(1988-2005) 6243 (3.4%) of deaths occurred as the result of complication of the 
war-related injuries or implanted landmines/unexploded ordnances (ICD10 code: 
Y36.8). YLL in Iraq-Iran war among Iranian victims were calculated as 
10,479,405.0 years considering the age weighting and discount rate equal to 0. 
Age-adjusted YLL were estimated as 10,169,546.2 years in males. Female cases 
that comprised 2.9% of total victims lost 309,858.8 years. The mean YLL was 
calculated as 57.1 years for each Iranian victim killed in Iraq-Iran war. The 
war-related YLL was estimated more than 10 million years that comprised a 
majority of young men. This study is the first step in estimation of disability 
adjusted life year (DALY) of Iraq-Iran war on Iranian side.

DOI: 10.1080/17457300.2013.843569
PMID: 24344985 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


840. Circulation. 2014 Feb 25;129(8):837-47. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.005119.  Epub 2013 Dec 17.

Worldwide epidemiology of atrial fibrillation: a Global Burden of Disease 2010 
Study.

Chugh SS(1), Havmoeller R, Narayanan K, Singh D, Rienstra M, Benjamin EJ, Gillum 
RF, Kim YH, McAnulty JH Jr, Zheng ZJ, Forouzanfar MH, Naghavi M, Mensah GA, 
Ezzati M, Murray CJ.

Author information:
(1)Cedars-Sinai Heart Institute, Los Angeles, CA (S.S.C., R.H., K.N., D.S.); 
Karolinska Institute, Stockholm, Sweden (R.H.); University of Groningen, 
University Medical Center Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands (M.R.); 
Framingham Heart Study and Boston University School of Medicine and Public 
Health, Boston, MA (E.J.B.); Department of Medicine, Howard University College 
of Medicine, Washington, DC (R.F.G.); Korea University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Republic of Korea (Y.-H.K.); Legacy Good Samaritan Medical Center, 
Portland, OR (J.H.M.); National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Bethesda, MD 
(Z.-J.Z., G.A.M.); Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of 
Washington, Seattle (M.H.F., M.N., C.J.L.M.); and Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, MA (M.E.).

Comment in
    Circulation. 2014 Feb 25;129(8):829-30.

BACKGROUND: The global burden of atrial fibrillation (AF) is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We systematically reviewed population-based studies of AF 
published from 1980 to 2010 from the 21 Global Burden of Disease regions to 
estimate global/regional prevalence, incidence, and morbidity and mortality 
related to AF (DisModMR software). Of 377 potential studies identified, 184 met 
prespecified eligibility criteria. The estimated number of individuals with AF 
globally in 2010 was 33.5 million (20.9 million men [95% uncertainty interval 
(UI), 19.5-22.2 million] and 12.6 million women [95% UI, 12.0-13.7 million]). 
Burden associated with AF, measured as disability-adjusted life-years, increased 
by 18.8% (95% UI, 15.8-19.3) in men and 18.9% (95% UI, 15.8-23.5) in women from 
1990 to 2010. In 1990, the estimated age-adjusted prevalence rates of AF (per 
100 000 population) were 569.5 in men (95% UI, 532.8-612.7) and 359.9 in women 
(95% UI, 334.7-392.6); the estimated age-adjusted incidence rates were 60.7 per 
100 000 person-years in men (95% UI, 49.2-78.5) and 43.8 in women (95% UI, 
35.9-55.0). In 2010, the prevalence rates increased to 596.2 (95% UI, 
558.4-636.7) in men and 373.1 (95% UI, 347.9-402.2) in women; the incidence 
rates increased to 77.5 (95% UI, 65.2-95.4) in men and 59.5 (95% UI, 49.9-74.9) 
in women. Mortality associated with AF was higher in women and increased by 
2-fold (95% UI, 2.0-2.2) and 1.9-fold (95% UI, 1.8-2.0) in men and women, 
respectively, from 1990 to 2010. There was evidence of significant regional 
heterogeneity in AF estimations and availability of population-based data.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide evidence of progressive increases in overall 
burden, incidence, prevalence, and AF-associated mortality between 1990 and 
2010, with significant public health implications. Systematic, regional 
surveillance of AF is required to better direct prevention and treatment 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.005119
PMCID: PMC4151302
PMID: 24345399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures: None.841. Stat Methods Med Res. 2016 Oct;25(5):2036-2052. doi:
10.1177/0962280213511719.  Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Multilevel models for cost-effectiveness analyses that use cluster randomised 
trial data: An approach to model choice.

Ng ES(1), Diaz-Ordaz K(1), Grieve R(2), Nixon RM(3), Thompson SG(4), Carpenter 
JR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(2)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene 
and Tropical Medicine, London, UK richard.grieve@lshtm.ac.uk.
(3)Modeling and Simulation Group, Novartis Pharma AG, Basel, Switzerland.
(4)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK.
(5)Department of Medical Statistics, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK.

Multilevel models provide a flexible modelling framework for cost-effectiveness 
analyses that use cluster randomised trial data. However, there is a lack of 
guidance on how to choose the most appropriate multilevel models. This paper 
illustrates an approach for deciding what level of model complexity is 
warranted; in particular how best to accommodate complex variance-covariance 
structures, right-skewed costs and missing data. Our proposed models differ 
according to whether or not they allow individual-level variances and 
correlations to differ across treatment arms or clusters and by the assumed cost 
distribution (Normal, Gamma, Inverse Gaussian). The models are fitted by Markov 
chain Monte Carlo methods. Our approach to model choice is based on four main 
criteria: the characteristics of the data, model pre-specification informed by 
the previous literature, diagnostic plots and assessment of model 
appropriateness. This is illustrated by re-analysing a previous 
cost-effectiveness analysis that uses data from a cluster randomised trial. We 
find that the most useful criterion for model choice was the deviance 
information criterion, which distinguishes amongst models with alternative 
variance-covariance structures, as well as between those with different cost 
distributions. This strategy for model choice can help cost-effectiveness 
analyses provide reliable inferences for policy-making when using cluster 
trials, including those with missing data.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0962280213511719
PMID: 24346164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


842. Rev Saude Publica. 2013 Jun;47(3):514-22. doi:
10.1590/s0034-8910.2013047004570.

Effect of eliminating chronic diseases among elderly individuals.

Campolina AG, Adami F, Santos JL, Lebrão ML.

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the elimination of certain chronic diseases is 
capable of leading to the compression of morbidity among elderly individuals.
METHODS: A population-based, cross-sectional study was carried out with official 
data for the city of Sao Paulo, Southeastern Brazil in 2000 and data from the 
SABE (Health, Wellbeing and Ageing) study. Sullivan's method was used to 
calculate disability-free life expectancy. Cause-deleted life tables were used 
to calculate the probabilities of death and disabilities with the elimination of 
health conditions.
RESULTS: The largest gains in disability-free life expectancy, with the 
elimination of chronic illness, occurred in the female gender. Among individuals 
of a more advanced age, gains in disability-free life expectancy occurred as 
result of a relative compression of morbidity. Among men aged 75 years, all 
conditions studied, except heart disease and systemic arterial pressure, led to 
an absolute expansion of morbidity and, at the same time, to a relative 
compression of morbidity upon being eliminated.
CONCLUSIONS: The elimination of chronic diseases in the elderly could lead to 
the compression of morbidity in elderly men and women.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-8910.2013047004570
PMID: 24346564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


843. Prim Care Respir J. 2014 Mar;23(1):38-45. doi: 10.4104/pcrj.2013.00106.

Management, morbidity and mortality of COPD during an 11-year period: an 
observational retrospective epidemiological register study in Sweden (PATHOS).

Ställberg B(1), Janson C, Johansson G, Larsson K, Stratelis G, Telg G, Lisspers 
KH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Caring Sciences, Family Medicine and 
Preventive Medicine, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.

Comment in
    Prim Care Respir J. 2014 Mar;23(1):7-8.

BACKGROUND: Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is one of the most 
common causes of mortality and a major contributor to morbidity. Longitudinal 
clinical practice data yielding information on the characteristics of the 
disease, its natural course, and management are limited.
AIMS: To investigate and describe the COPD population from a nationwide 
perspective during an 11-year period (1999-2009) with a focus on management, 
co-morbidity, and mortality.
METHODS: This observational retrospective epidemiological study linked 
electronic medical records data from patients with COPD in primary care to 
mandatory Swedish hospital, drug and Cause of Death registry data from 1999 to 
2009 (PATHOS).
RESULTS: A total of 21,361 patients with a COPD diagnosis were included (mean 
age 68.0 years, 53% females). The proportion of patients diagnosed in primary 
care increased from 59% in 1999 to 81% in 2009 and the mean age at diagnosis 
decreased from 73 to 66 years. The number of exacerbations decreased from 3.0 to 
1.3 and COPD-related hospitalisations decreased from 1.02 to 0.20 per patient 
per year. Prescriptions of long-acting muscarinic antagonists and fixed 
combinations of inhaled corticosteroid/long-acting β2-agonist inhalers increased 
from 0% to 36% and 37%, respectively. The most common co-morbidities were 
hypertension, heart failure, ischaemic heart disease, and diabetes. Overall life 
expectancy was 8.3±6.8 years shorter in patients with COPD than in the general 
population, and all- cause mortality was 3.5 times higher.
CONCLUSIONS: Management of COPD in Sweden has improved during the 11-year study 
period. Despite this, patients with COPD have a substantially reduced life 
expectancy than the general population.

DOI: 10.4104/pcrj.2013.00106
PMCID: PMC6443109
PMID: 24346825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: BS has received honoraria for educational 
activities from AstraZeneca, GlaxoSmithKline, Meda, Merck Sharp and Dohme, and 
has served on an advisory board arranged by AstraZeneca, Novartis, and 
Boehringer Ingelheim. He is an Associate editor of the PCRJ, but was not 
involved in the editorial review of, nor the decision to publish, this article. 
CJ has received honoraria for educational activities from AstraZeneca, 
GlaxoSmithKline, and Merck Sharp and Dohme. GJ has served on an advisory board 
arranged by AstraZeneca and Takeda. KL has served on an advisory board and/or 
served as a speaker and/or participated in education arranged by AstraZeneca, 
Boehringer Ingelheim, GlaxoSmithKline, Meda, MSD, Nycomed, Novartis, and Pfizer. 
KL has also received unrestricted research grants from AstraZeneca, Boehringer 
Ingelheim, and GlaxoSmithKline. GS and GT are full-time employees of AstraZeneca 
Nordic. KHL has received speaking fees from AstraZeneca, Boehringer Ingelheim, 
and Merck Sharp and Dohme.


844. Neurourol Urodyn. 2015 Mar;34(3):244-50. doi: 10.1002/nau.22540. Epub 2013
Dec  17.

Cost-effectiveness of an Internet-based treatment program for stress urinary 
incontinence.

Sjöström M(1), Umefjord G, Lindholm L, Samuelsson E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Unit of Clinical Research 
Center - Östersund, Umeå University, Umeå

Comment in
    J Urol. 2016 Aug;196(2):498-9.

AIMS: To perform a deterministic cost-utility analysis, from a 1-year societal 
perspective, of two treatment programs for stress urinary incontinence (SUI) 
without face-to-face contact: one Internet-based and one sent by post. The 
treatments were compared with each other and with no treatment.
METHODS: We performed this economic evaluation alongside a randomized controlled 
trial. The study included 250 women aged 18-70, with SUI ≥ 1 time/week, who were 
randomized to 3 months of pelvic floor muscle training via either an 
Internet-based program including e-mail support from an urotherapist (n = 124) 
or a program sent by post (n = 126). Recruitment was web-based, and participants 
were self-assessed with validated questionnaires and 2-day bladder diaries, 
supplemented by a telephone interview with a urotherapist. Treatment costs were 
continuously registered. Data on participants' time for training, incontinence 
aids, and laundry were collected at baseline, 4 months, and 1 year. We also 
measured quality of life with the condition-specific questionnaire ICIQ-LUTSqol, 
and calculated the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained. Baseline data 
remained unchanged for the no treatment option. Sensitivity analysis was 
performed.
RESULTS: Compared to the postal program, the extra cost per QALY for the 
Internet-based program ranged from 200€ to 7,253€, indicating greater QALY-gains 
at similar or slightly higher costs. Compared to no treatment, the extra cost 
per QALY for the Internet-based program ranged from 10,022€ to 38,921€, 
indicating greater QALY-gains at higher, but probably acceptable costs.
CONCLUSION: An Internet-based treatment for SUI is a new, cost-effective 
treatment alternative.

© 2013 The Authors. Neurourology and Urodynamics Published by Wiley Periodicals, 
Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/nau.22540
PMCID: PMC4407951
PMID: 24347521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


845. Bull World Health Organ. 2013 Nov 1;91(11):853-63. doi:
10.2471/BLT.13.118729.

Human resources for health and universal health coverage: fostering equity and 
effective coverage.

Campbell J(1), Buchan J(2), Cometto G(3), David B(4), Dussault G(5), Fogstad 
H(6), Fronteira I(5), Lozano R(7), Nyonator F(8), Pablos-Méndez A(9), Quain 
EE(9), Starrs A(10), Tangcharoensathien V(11).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Cooperación Social Integrare, Calle Balmes 30, 3°-1, 08007 
Barcelona, Spain .
(2)Queen Margaret University, Edinburgh, Scotland .
(3)Global Health Workforce Alliance, World Health Organization, Geneva, 
Switzerland .
(4)Australian Agency for International Development, Canberra, Australia .
(5)Universidade Nova de Lisboa, Lisbon, Portugal .
(6)Norwegian Agency for Development Cooperation, Oslo, Norway .
(7)National Institute of Public Health, Cuernavaca, Mexico .
(8)Ministry of Health, Accra, Ghana .
(9)United States Agency for International Development, Washington, United States 
of America (USA).
(10)Family Care International, New York, USA .
(11)International Health Policy Programme, Ministry of Public Health, 
Nonthaburi, Thailand .

Achieving universal health coverage (UHC) involves distributing resources, 
especially human resources for health (HRH), to match population needs. This 
paper explores the policy lessons on HRH from four countries that have achieved 
sustained improvements in UHC: Brazil, Ghana, Mexico and Thailand. Its purpose 
is to inform global policy and financial commitments on HRH in support of UHC. 
The paper reports on country experiences using an analytical framework that 
examines effective coverage in relation to the availability, accessibility, 
acceptability and quality (AAAQ) of HRH. The AAAQ dimensions make it possible to 
perform tracing analysis on HRH policy actions since 1990 in the four countries 
of interest in relation to national trends in workforce numbers and population 
mortality rates. The findings inform key principles for evidence-based 
decision-making on HRH in support of UHC. First, HRH are critical to the 
expansion of health service coverage and the package of benefits; second, HRH 
strategies in each of the AAAQ dimensions collectively support achievements in 
effective coverage; and third, success is achieved through partnerships 
involving health and non-health actors. Facing the unprecedented health and 
development challenges that affect all countries and transforming HRH evidence 
into policy and practice must be at the heart of UHC and the post-2015 
development agenda. It is a political imperative requiring national commitment 
and leadership to maximize the impact of available financial and human 
resources, and improve healthy life expectancy, with the recognition that 
improvements in health care are enabled by a health workforce that is fit for 
purpose.

Publisher: Parvenir à la couverture sanitaire universelle (CSU) implique la 
répartition des ressources, et en particulier des ressources humaines pour la 
santé (RHS), afin de répondre aux besoins de la population. Cet article étudie 
les leçons politiques sur les RHS de quatre pays ayant accompli des progrès 
durables en matière de CSU: le Brésil, le Ghana, le Mexique et la Thaïlande. Son 
but est d'informer sur les politiques globales et les engagements financiers 
dans les RHS visant à promouvoir la CSU.L'article décrit les expériences des 
pays à l'aide d'un cadre analytique examinant la couverture efficace par rapport 
à la disponibilité, l'accessibilité, l'acceptabilité et la qualité (DAAQ) des 
RHS. Les dimensions DAAQ permettent de réaliser une analyse de traçage des 
actions politiques en RHS depuis 1990 dans les quatre pays étudiés, par rapport 
aux tendances nationales des statistiques de main-d'oeuvre et des taux de 
mortalité de la population. Les résultats indiquent quels sont les principes 
clés pour la prise de décisions basées sur les faits sur les RHS visant à 
promouvoir la CSU. Premièrement, les RHS sont essentielles à l'expansion de la 
couverture des services de santé et de l'ensemble des avantages; deuxièmement, 
des stratégies RHS pour chacune des dimensions DAAQ favorisent collectivement 
les progrès vers une couverture efficace; et troisièmement, le succès est 
atteint à travers des partenariats impliquant des acteurs tant médicaux que non 
médicaux.Répondre aux défis sans précédent dans les domaines de la santé et du 
développement, qui concernent tous les pays, et transformer les faits RHS en 
politiques et en pratiques doivent être à la base du programme de CSU et de 
l'agenda de développement post-2015. C'est un impératif politique qui exige un 
engagement et un leadership nationaux pour optimiser l'impact des ressources 
financières et humaines disponibles et accroître l'espérance de vie en bonne 
santé, avec la reconnaissance que les progrès dans le domaine des soins de santé 
ne sont possibles qu'avec une main-d'oeuvre de santé adéquate.

Publisher: Lograr una cobertura sanitaria universal implica una distribución de 
los recursos, en particular, de los recursos humanos para la salud (RHS), a fin 
de satisfacer las necesidades de la población. Este documento examina las 
lecciones sobre políticas relacionadas con los RHS de cuatro países que han 
conseguido avances ininterrumpidos en materia de cobertura sanitaria universal: 
Brasil, Ghana, México y Tailandia. Su objetivo consiste en exponer la política 
mundial y los compromisos financieros sobre RHS como ayuda para una cobertura 
sanitaria universal.El documento explica las experiencias de los países 
mencionados por medio de un marco de trabajo analítico que examina la eficacia 
de una cobertura en función de la disponibilidad, accesibilidad, aceptabilidad y 
calidad (DAAC) de los RHS. Los aspectos DAAC permiten llevar a cabo análisis de 
seguimiento sobre las acciones políticas relativas a los RHS desde 1990 en los 
cuatro países de interés en relación con las tendencias nacionales en el número 
de trabajadores y las tasas de mortalidad de la población.Los resultados 
muestran los principios fundamentales para la toma de decisiones basadas en 
pruebas científicas sobre los RHS como apoyo a una cobertura sanitaria 
universal. En primer lugar, los RHS son esenciales para expandir la cobertura de 
los servicios sanitarios y el conjunto de prestaciones. En segundo lugar, las 
estrategias RHS en cada uno de los aspectos DAAC respaldan de forma colectiva 
los logros en la eficacia de la cobertura y, en tercer lugar, los buenos 
resultados solo pueden conseguirse a través de la asociación de actores 
sanitarios y no sanitarios.Hacer frente a los desafíos sanitarios y de 
desarrollo sin precedentes que afectan a todos los países y traducir las pruebas 
científicas sobre RHS en políticas y prácticas deben convertirse en los puntos 
centrales de la cobertura sanitaria universal y de la agenda de desarrollo a 
partir del año 2015. Se trata de un imperativo político que requiere un 
compromiso y liderazgo nacionales para potenciar el impacto de los recursos 
financieros y humanos disponibles, y así mejorar la esperanza de vida saludable, 
sin olvidar que las mejoras en materia de asistencia sanitaria son posibles 
gracias a un personal sanitario apto para tal propósito.

Publisher: يتضمن تحقيق التغطية الصحية الشاملة توزيع الموارد، لاسيما الموارد 
البشرية الصحية، لتلبية احتياجات السكان. وتستكشف هذه الورقة الدروس السياسية 
المعنية بالموارد البشرية الصحية المستفادة من أربعة بلدان حققت تحسينات مستدامة في 
التغطية الصحية الشاملة، هي: البرازيل وغانا والمكسيك وتايلند. وتهدف هذه الورقة 
إلى توفير المعلومات اللازمة للسياسة العالمية والالتزامات المالية للموارد البشرية 
الصحية دعماً للتغطية الصحية الشاملة. تقدم هذه الورقة تقارير عن خبرات البلدان 
باستخدام إطار تحليلي يدرس التغطية الفعالة فيما يتصل بتوافر وإتاحة ومقبولية وجودة 
الموارد البشرية الصحية. وتتيح أبعاد التوافر والإتاحة والمقبولية والجودة تنفيذ 
تتبع التحليل المعني بإجراءات سياسة الموارد البشرية الصحية منذ عام 1990 في 
البلدان الأربع محل الاهتمام فيما يتصل بالاتجاهات الوطنية في أعداد القوى العاملة 
ومعدلات وفيات السكان. توفر النتائج المعلومات اللازمة حول المبادئ الرئيسية لاتخاذ 
القرار المستند على البيّنات المعني بالموارد البشرية الصحية دعماً للتغطية الصحية 
الشاملة. أولاً، الموارد البشرية الصحية بالغة الأهمية في توسيع تغطية الخدمات 
الصحية وحزمة المزايا؛ ثانياً، تدعم استراتيجيات الموارد البشرية الصحية في كل بعد 
من أبعاد التوافر والإتاحة والمقبولية والجودة في مجموعها الإنجازات في التغطية 
الفعالة؛ ثالثاً، يتحقق النجاح من خلال الشراكات التي تضم جهات فاعلة في المجال 
الصحي وغير الصحي. يجب أن تكون مواجهة التحديات الصحية والإنمائية غير المسبوقة 
التي تؤثر على كل البلدان وتحويل بينّات الموارد البشرية الصحية إلى سياسة وممارسة 
محور التغطية الصحية الشاملة وجدول أعمال التنمية بعد عام 2015. وتمثل زيادة أثر 
الموارد المالية والبشرية المتاحة إلى أقصى قدر ممكن، وتحسين متوسط العمر المأمول 
لدى الأصحاء مع الإقرار بتمكين القوى العاملة الصحية المناسبة للغرض من إدخال 
تحسينات في الرعاية الصحية واجباً سياسياً يتطلب التزاماً وقيادة على الصعيد 
الوطني.

Publisher: 
实现全民医保（UHC）涉及满足人们需求的资源分配，尤其是卫生人力资源（HRH）的分配。文本探讨了巴西、加纳、墨西哥和泰国四国HRH相关政策的经验教训，这四个国家在UHC方面取得了持续改进。本文旨在为HRH的相关全球政策和财务规划提供信息，用以支持UHC。本文使用考查HRH可用性、可及性、可接受性和质量（AAAQ）相关有效覆盖的分析框架来报告国家经验。采用AAAQ维度可以对四个受关注国家执行1990 
年以来有关劳动力数量和人口死亡率国家趋势的HRH政策行为跟踪分析。研究结果可以为基于证据的相关HRH决策的基本原则提供参考信息，对UHC加以支持。首先，HRH对于扩大卫生服务覆盖和福利制度非常关键；其次，每个AAAQ维度中的HRH战略对实现有效覆盖共同起支持作用；第三，成功通过合作关系实现，这种合作关系涉及卫生工作者，也牵涉到非卫生行动者。面对影响所有国家的前所未有的卫生和发展挑战，将HRH证据转化为政策和实践必须居于UHC和2015 
年后发展议程的核心。一个需要国家承诺和领导的政治要务就是，通过认识到专业对口的卫生劳动力能实现医疗卫生事业的改善，将可用财政和人力资源的效力最大化，并改善健康预期寿命。

Publisher: Достижение всеобщего охвата медико-санитарной помощью (ВОМСП) 
подразумевает распределение ресурсов, особенно кадровых ресурсов здравоохранения 
(КРЗ), в соответствии с потребностями населения. В данной статье исследуются 
результаты проведения политики в области КРЗ в четырех странах, добившихся 
устойчивых улучшений в области ВОМСП: Бразилии, Ганы, Мексики и Таиланда. Целью 
статьи является информирование о глобальной политике и финансовых обязательствах 
по КРЗ в целях обеспечения ВОМСП.В статье сообщается об опыте стран с 
применением аналитической основы, когда эффективность охвата медицинскими 
услугами рассматривается на основе таких параметров КРЗ, как наличие, 
доступность, приемлемость и качество (НДПК). Использование параметров НДПК дало 
возможность выполнить исторический анализ политики КРЗ в этих четырех странах с 
1990 года с учетом национальных тенденций численности рабочей силы и смертности 
населения.В результате были выделены основные принципы научно обоснованных 
решений по КРЗ для поддержки ВОМСП. Во-первых, КРЗ имеет решающее значение для 
расширения охвата медицинским обслуживанием и связанных с ним комплексных 
улучшений; во-вторых, стратегии КРЗ по каждому параметру НДПК совместно 
обеспечивают более эффективный охват услугами; и в-третьих, успех достигается 
благодаря партнерским отношениям с организациями, как связанными со 
здравоохранением, так и работающими вне этой области.Эффективное преодоление 
беспрецедентных трудностей в области здравоохранения и развития, затрагивающих 
все страны, и воплощение результатов, полученных в ходе исследования КРЗ, в 
политику и практику, должно стать основой стратегии ВОМСП и сформировать 
повестку дня в целях развития после 2015 года. Политическим императивом сегодня 
является национальная заинтересованность и обеспечение руководства развитием 
здравоохранения, что позволит оптимально использовать имеющиеся финансовые и 
людские ресурсы и увеличить ожидаемую продолжительность здоровой жизни. При этом 
необходимо признание того, что улучшения в области медицинского обслуживания 
возможны только при наличии кадров работников здравоохранения, соответствующих 
данным целям.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.13.118729
PMCID: PMC3853950
PMID: 24347710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


846. For Ecol Manage. 2011 Jul 15;262(2):71-81. doi:
10.1016/j.foreco.2010.09.013.

Ecosystem-scale biosphere-atmosphere interactions of a hemiboreal mixed forest 
stand at Järvselja, Estonia.

Noe SM(1), Kimmel V(1), Hüve K(1), Copolovici L(1), Portillo-Estrada M(1), 
Püttsepp U(1), Jõgiste K(2), Niinemets U(1), Hörtnagl L(3), Wohlfahrt G(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Agricultural and Environmental Sciences, Estonian University of 
Life Sciences, Kreutzwaldi 1, EE-51014 Tartu Estonia.
(2)Institute of Forestry and Rural Engineering, Estonian University of Life 
Sciences, Kreutzwaldi 1, EE-51014 Tartu Estonia.
(3)Institute of Ecology, University of Innsbruck, Sternwartestr. 15, A-6020 
Innsbruck, Austria.

During two measurement campaigns, from August to September 2008 and 2009, we 
quantified the major ecosystem fluxes in a hemiboreal forest ecosystem in 
Järvselja, Estonia. The main aim of this study was to separate the ecosystem 
flux components and gain insight into the performance of a multi-species 
multi-layered tree stand. Carbon dioxide and water vapor fluxes were measured 
using the eddy covariance method above and below the canopy in conjunction with 
the microclimate. Leaf and soil contributions were quantified separately by 
cuvette and chamber measurements, including fluxes of carbon dioxide, water 
vapor, nitrogen oxides, nitrous oxide, methane, ozone, sulfur dioxide, and 
biogenic volatile organic compounds (isoprene and monoterpenes). The latter have 
been as well characterized for monoterpenes in detail. Based on measured 
atmospheric trace gas concentrations, the flux tower site can be characterized 
as remote and rural with low anthropogenic disturbances. Our results presented 
here encourage future experimental efforts to be directed towards year round 
integrated biosphere-atmosphere measurements and development of process-oriented 
models of forest-atmosphere exchange taking the special case of a multi-layered 
and multi-species tree stand into account. As climate change likely leads to 
spatial extension of hemiboreal forest ecosystems a deep understanding of the 
processes and interactions therein is needed to foster management and mitigation 
strategies.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foreco.2010.09.013
PMCID: PMC3859925
PMID: 24347809


847. NBER Macroecon Annu. 2009 Apr;23:157-204. doi: 10.1086/593084.

WHEN DOES IMPROVING HEALTH RAISE GDP?

Ashraf QH(1), Lester A(2), Weil DN(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Brown University, 64 Waterman Street, Providence, RI 
02912, Quamrul_Ashraf@brown.edu.
(2)Dept. of Economics, Box B, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912, 
Ashley_Lester@brown.edu.
(3)Department of Economics, Box B, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912 and 
NBER, david_weil@brown.edu.

We assess quantitatively the effect of exogenous health improvements on output 
per capita. Our simulation model allows for a direct effect of health on worker 
productivity, as well as indirect effects that run through schooling, the size 
and age-structure of the population, capital accumulation, and crowding of fixed 
natural resources. The model is parameterized using a combination of 
microeconomic estimates, data on demographics, disease burdens, and natural 
resource income in developing countries, and standard components of quantitative 
macroeconomic theory. We consider both changes in general health, proxied by 
improvements in life expectancy, and changes in the prevalence of two particular 
diseases: malaria and tuberculosis. We find that the effects of health 
improvements on income per capita are substantially lower than those that are 
often quoted by policy-makers, and may not emerge at all for three decades or 
more after the initial improvement in health. The results suggest that 
proponents of efforts to improve health in developing countries should rely on 
humanitarian rather than economic arguments.

DOI: 10.1086/593084
PMCID: PMC3860117
PMID: 24347816


848. Indian J Palliat Care. 2013 Sep;19(3):166-9. doi: 10.4103/0973-1075.121533.

Physiological and psychosocial stressors among hemodialysis patients in 
educational hospitals of northern iran.

Gorji MA(1), Mahdavi A(1), Janati Y(1), Illayi E(1), Yazdani J(2), Setareh J(3), 
Panjaki SA(4), Gorji AM(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Member of Psychiatry and Behavioural Science Centre, 
Sari, Iran.
(2)Department of Bio Statistic, Member of Psychiatry and Behavioural Science 
Centre, Sari, Iran.
(3)Department of Neurologists, Member of Psychiatry and Behavioural Science 
Centre, Sari, Iran.
(4)Department of Employment, Ministery of Health and Medical Education, Tehran, 
Iran.
(5)Department of Education Development Centre, Medical Science University of 
Mazandaran, Iran.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The hemodialysis (HD) patients are experiencing high 
biopsychosocial stress on all levels. Therefore, this study was designed to 
survey on physiologic and psychosocial stressors among HD patients in two 
educational hospitals of Northern Iran.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This cross-sectional study included 80 HD patients who 
were referred to Khomeini and Fatemeh Zahra hospitals in Mazandaran (Northern 
Iran) during the year 2011. Data were collected using a demographic information 
record sheet and Baldree Hemodialysis Stress Scale.
FINDING: THE FOLLOWING PHYSIOLOGIC STRESSORS WERE NOTED: Fatigue (51.25%), 
limited time and places for enjoyment (46.25%), and physical activation 
limitation (32.5%). Similarly the following psychosocial stressors were 
observed: Fistula (58.75%), limitation of drinking water (47.5%), low quality of 
life (47.5%), travelling difficulties to the dialysis center (45%), treatment 
cost (41.5%), and low life expectancy. The stress level was high in women who 
were married, younger, less dialysis vintage, and belonged to a low education 
level.
CONCLUSION: This study reports that HD patients have with significant physical 
and psychosocial problems and they need education, family, and social supports.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-1075.121533
PMCID: PMC3853395
PMID: 24347907

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


849. Gastroenterol Res Pract. 2013;2013:636785. doi: 10.1155/2013/636785. Epub
2013  Nov 17.

Dominant fecal microbiota in newly diagnosed untreated inflammatory bowel 
disease patients.

Thorkildsen LT(1), Nwosu FC(1), Avershina E(2), Ricanek P(3), Perminow G(4), 
Brackmann S(5), Vatn MH(6), Rudi K(7).

Author information:
(1)Hedmark University College, 2306 Hamar, Norway.
(2)Department of Chemistry, Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University 
for Life Sciences, 1432 Ås, Norway.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, Akershus University Hospital, 1478 Lørenskog, 
Norway ; Department of Clinical Molecular Biology and Laboratory Sciences 
(EpiGen), Division of Medicine, Akershus University Hospital, University of 
Oslo, 0316 Oslo, Norway.
(4)Pediatric Department, Oslo University Hospital, Ullevål, 0450 Oslo, Norway.
(5)Department of Clinical Molecular Biology and Laboratory Sciences (EpiGen), 
Division of Medicine, Akershus University Hospital, University of Oslo, 0316 
Oslo, Norway.
(6)Department of Clinical Molecular Biology and Laboratory Sciences (EpiGen), 
Division of Medicine, Akershus University Hospital, University of Oslo, 0316 
Oslo, Norway ; Medical Clinic, Oslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet, 0372 
Oslo, Norway.
(7)Hedmark University College, 2306 Hamar, Norway ; Department of Chemistry, 
Biotechnology and Food Science, Norwegian University for Life Sciences, 1432 Ås, 
Norway.

Our knowledge about the microbiota associated with the onset of IBD is limited. 
The aim of our study was to investigate the correlation between IBD and the 
fecal microbiota for early diagnosed untreated patients. The fecal samples used 
were a part of the Inflammatory Bowel South-Eastern Norway II (IBSEN II) study 
and were collected from CD patients (n = 30), UC patients (n = 33), unclassified 
IBD (IBDU) patients (n = 3), and from a control group (n = 34). The bacteria 
associated with the fecal samples were analyzed using a direct 16S rRNA 
gene-sequencing approach combined with a multivariate curve resolution (MCR) 
analysis. In addition, a 16S rRNA gene clone library was prepared for the 
construction of bacteria-specific gene-targeted single nucleotide primer 
extension (SNuPE) probes. The MCR analysis resulted in the recovery of five pure 
components of the dominant bacteria present: Escherichia/Shigella, 
Faecalibacterium, Bacteroides, and two components of unclassified Clostridiales. 
Escherichia/Shigella was found to be significantly increased in CD patients 
compared to control subjects, and Faecalibacterium was found to be significantly 
reduced in CD patients compared to both UC patients and control subjects. 
Furthermore, a SNuPE probe specific for Escherichia/Shigella showed a 
significant overrepresentation of Escherichia/Shigella in CD patients compared 
to control subjects. In conclusion, samples from CD patients exhibited an 
increase in Escherichia/Shigella and a decrease in Faecalibacterium indicating 
that the onset of the disease is associated with an increase in proinflammatory 
and a decrease in anti-inflammatory bacteria.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/636785
PMCID: PMC3855989
PMID: 24348539


850. Case Rep Med. 2013;2013:891596. doi: 10.1155/2013/891596. Epub 2013 Nov 18.

Bisphosphonate Treatment in a Patient Affected by MPS IVA with Osteoporotic 
Phenotype.

Tummolo A(1), Gabrielli O(2), Gaeta A(3), Masciopinto M(1), Zampini L(2), Pavone 
LM(4), Di Natale P(4), Papadia F(1).

Author information:
(1)Metabolic Diseases and Clinical Genetics Unit, Children's Hospital Giovanni 
XXIII, Via Amendola 207, 70126 Bari, Italy.
(2)Department of Clinical Sciences, Polytechnic University of Marche, Azienda 
Ospedali Riuniti, Via Conca 71, 60126 Ancona, Italy.
(3)Radiology Unit, Children's Hospital Giovanni XXIII, Via Amendola 207, 70126 
Bari, Italy.
(4)Department of Molecular Medicine and Medical Biotechnologies, University of 
Naples Federico II, Zona Ospedaliera, Via Pansini 5, 80131 Naples, Italy.

Morquio A syndrome (Mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA) (MPS IVA) is a rare 
inherited metabolic disorder characterized by the defective degradation of 
keratan sulfate and chondroitin-6-sulfate. Classically, MPS IVA patients present 
with severe multisystemic involvement and have a short life expectancy. 
Attenuated forms with clinical features limited to minor skeletal abnormalities 
and short stature have also been described, sometimes associated to an 
early-onset osteoporotic phenotype. No treatment with allogenic bone marrow 
transplantation or gene therapy is currently available for Morquio A syndrome, 
and enzyme replacement therapy is under evaluation. We report a case of MPS IVA, 
who manifested tardily attenuated phenotype and significant bone mass reduction, 
which was treated with a bisphosphonate (BPN), resulting in an improvement of 
X-ray skeletal aspects and functional bone performance. We suggest that the use 
of bisphosphonates may be an interesting supportive therapeutic option for 
Morquio A patients with osteoporotic phenotype, but further studies involving 
more patients are necessary to confirm our findings.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/891596
PMCID: PMC3855944
PMID: 24348578


851. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 13;8(12):e81102. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081102. 
eCollection 2013.

Unhealthy days and quality of life in Irish patients with diabetes.

Clifford EL(1), Collins MM(2), Buckley CM(3), Fitzgerald AP(4), Perry IJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition & Dietetics, South Infirmary Victoria University 
Hospital, Cork, Ireland ; Department of Epidemiology & Public Health, University 
College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(2)University of California Co-Operative Extension, Sonora, California, United 
States of America.
(3)Department of Epidemiology & Public Health, University College Cork, Cork, 
Ireland.
(4)Department of Epidemiology & Public Health, University College Cork, Cork, 
Ireland ; Department of Statistics, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.

OBJECTIVES: To study the determinants of health-related quality of life (HRQoL) 
in Irish patients with diabetes using the Centres for Disease Controls' (CDC's) 
'Unhealthy Days' summary measure and to assesses the agreement between this 
generic HRQoL measure and the disease-specific Audit of Diabetes Dependant 
Quality of Life (ADDQoL) measure.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Data were analysed from the Diabetes Quality of 
Life Study, a cross-sectional study of 1,456 people with diabetes in Ireland 
(71% response rate). Unhealthy days were assessed using the CDC's 'Unhealthy 
days' summary measure. Quality of life (QoL) was also assessed using the ADDQoL 
measure. Analyses were conducted primarily using logistic regression. The 
agreement between the two QoL instruments was measured using the kappa 
co-efficient.
RESULTS: Participants reported a median of 2 unhealthy days per month. In 
multivariate analyses, female gender (P = 0.001), insulin use (P = 0.030), 
diabetes complications (P = <0.001) were significantly associated with more 
unhealthy days. Older patients had fewer unhealthy days per month (P = 0.003). 
Agreement between the two measures of QoL (unhealthy days measure and ADDQoL) 
was poor, Kappa = 0.234.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings highlight the determinants of HRQoL in patients with 
diabetes using a generic HRQoL summary measure. The 'Unhealthy Days' and the 
ADDQoL have poor agreement, therefore the 'Unhealthy Days' summary measure may 
be assessing a different construct. Nonetheless, this study demonstrates that 
the generic 'Unhealthy Days' summary measure can be used to detect determinants 
of HRQoL in patients with diabetes.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0081102
PMCID: PMC3862478
PMID: 24349036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


852. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 12;8(12):e83313. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083313. 
eCollection 2013.

Is sustained virological response a marker of treatment efficacy in patients 
with chronic hepatitis C viral infection with no response or relapse to previous 
antiviral intervention?

Gurusamy KS(1), Wilson E(2), Koretz RL(3), Allen VB(1), Davidson BR(1), 
Burroughs AK(4), Gluud C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Health Economics Group, University of East Anglia, Norwich, United Kingdom ; 
Cambridge Centre for Health Services Research, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(3)Cochrane Hepato Biliary Group, Granada Hills, California, United States of 
America.
(4)Sheila Sherlock Liver Centre and Institute of Liver and Digestive Health, 
Royal Free Hospital, and UCL, London, United Kingdom.
(5)Cochrane Hepato-Biliary Group, The Copenhagen Trial Unit, Centre for Clinical 
Intervention Research, Rigshospitalet,Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Randomised clinical trials (RCTs) of antiviral interventions in 
patients with chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection use sustained 
virological response (SVR) as the main outcome. There is sparse information on 
long-term mortality from RCTs.
METHODS: We created a decision tree model based on a Cochrane systematic review 
on interferon retreatment for patients who did not respond to initial therapy or 
who relapsed following SVR. Extrapolating data to 20 years, we modelled the 
outcome from three scenarios: (1) observed medium-term (5 year) annual mortality 
rates continue to the long term (20 years); (2) long-term annual mortality in 
retreatment responders falls to that of the general population while retreatment 
non-responders continue at the medium-term mortality; (3) long-term annual 
mortality in retreatment non-responders is the same as control group 
non-responders (i.e., the increased treatment-related medium mortality "wears 
off").
RESULTS: The mean differences in life expectancy over 20 years with interferon 
versus control in the first, second, and third scenarios were -0.34 years (95% 
confidence interval (CI) -0.71 to 0.03), -0.23 years (95% CI -0.69 to 0.24), and 
-0.01 (95% CI -0.3 to 0.27), respectively. The life expectancy was always lower 
in the interferon group than in the control group in scenario 1. In scenario 3, 
the interferon group had a longer life expectancy than the control group only 
when more than 7% in the interferon group achieved SVR.
CONCLUSIONS: SVR may be a good prognostic marker but does not seem to be a valid 
surrogate marker for assessing HCV treatment efficacy of interferon retreatment. 
The SVR threshold at which retreatment increases life expectancy may be 
different for different drugs depending upon the adverse event profile and 
treatment efficacy. This has to be determined for each drug by RCTs and 
appropriate modelling before SVR can be accepted as a surrogate marker.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083313
PMCID: PMC3861485
PMID: 24349487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


853. Ann Cardiothorac Surg. 2013 Nov;2(6):779-86. doi: 
10.3978/j.issn.2225-319X.2013.10.02.

How do we use imaging to aid considerations for intervention in patients with 
severe mitral regurgitation?

Martin RP(1).

Author information:
(1)Piedmont Heart Institute, Marcus Valve Center, Atlanta, Georgia 30309, USA.

Increasing life expectancy and comorbid conditions, like obesity, especially in 
industrialized countries, have led to Valvular Heart Disease (VHD) becoming a 
major epidemic. Mitral valve disease currently accounts for nearly 10% of 
Valvular Heart Disease in industrialized countries worldwide. It is a known fact 
that, left untreated, degenerative mitral valve disease not only shortens an 
individual's life, but is also associated with increased morbidity. Despite 
current guidelines, there is often marked delay in appropriately sending 
patients for consideration of surgical intervention-interventions that when 
performed well can dramatically restore patients to a more normal lifespan. The 
critical question is really not what the severity of the mitral regurgitation 
is, but what the effect of the mitral regurgitation is on the heart. Modern day 
echocardiography utilizing Transthoracic Echo, Stress Echo, and Transesophageal 
Echo, can provide the clinician and the surgeon with six key factors that when 
taken together provide clear direction as to the proper timing for consideration 
for mitral valve repair. Thinking of these in an integrative fashion, the 
clinician and the surgeon can more appropriately time proper surgical 
intervention in primary degenerative mitral regurgitation.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2225-319X.2013.10.02
PMCID: PMC3856987
PMID: 24349982


854. Trauma Mon. 2013 Spring;18(1):32-6. doi: 10.5812/traumamon.8293. Epub 2013
May  26.

Two-stage surgical treatment for non-union of a shortened osteoporotic femur.

Said GZ(1), Farouk OA(1), Said HG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, Assiut University 
Hospitals, Assiut, Egypt.

INTRODUCTION: We report a case of non-union with severe shortening of the femur 
following diaphysectomy for chronic osteomyelitis.
CASE PRESENTATION: A boy, aged 16 years presented with a dangling and 
excessively short left lower limb. He was using an elbow crutch in his right 
hand to help him walk. He had a history of diaphysectomy for chronic 
osteomyelitis at the age of 9. Examination revealed a freely mobile non-union of 
the left femur. The femur was the seat of an 18 cm shortening and a 4 cm defect 
at the non-union site; the knee joint was ankylosed in extension. The tibia and 
fibula were 10 cm short. Considering the extensive shortening in the femur and 
tibia in addition to osteoporosis, he was treated in two stages. In stage I, the 
femoral non-union was treated by open reduction, internal fixation and iliac 
bone grafting. The patient was then allowed to walk with full weight bearing in 
an extension brace for 7 months. In Stage II, equalization of leg length 
discrepancy (LLD) was achieved by simultaneous distraction of the femur and 
tibia by unilateral frames. At the 6 month follow- up, he was fully weight 
bearing without any walking aid, with a heel lift to compensate the 1.5 cm 
shortening. Three years later he reported that he was satisfied with the result 
of treatment and was leading a normal life as a university student.
CONCLUSIONS: Two-stage treatment succeeded to restore about 20 cm of the femoral 
shortening in a severely osteoporotic bone. It has also succeeded in reducing 
the treatment time of the external fixator.

DOI: 10.5812/traumamon.8293
PMCID: PMC3860648
PMID: 24350147


855. Front Public Health. 2013 Apr 18;1:11. doi: 10.3389/fpubh.2013.00011. 
eCollection 2013.

Daily walking and life expectancy of elderly people in the iowa 65+ rural health 
study.

Samawi HM(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiann-Ping Hsu College of Public Health, Georgia Southern University 
Statesboro, GA, USA.

The purpose of this paper is to investigate the hypothesis that outdoor daily 
walking, as an exercise, has an effect on the rate of mortality among those 
elderly people in the Iowa 65+ Rural Health Study (RHS). RHS is a prospective 
longitudinal cohort study of 8 years follow-up from 1981 to 1989. It consists of 
a random sample of 3,673 individuals (1,420 men and 2,253 women) aged 65 or 
older living in Washington and Iowa counties of the State of Iowa. Our analysis 
was conducted only on those non-institutional individuals who could without any 
help walk across a small room; this reduced the total number of individuals in 
the study to 2,717. Moreover, a total of 923 individuals died during the period 
of the study. The life histories of those individuals were obtained and divided 
into two cohorts; one containing 1,134 who exercise daily by walking and the 
other containing 1,583 who do not exercise daily by walking. The interviewers 
asked participants about 17 medical conditions, from which 13 are included in 
our study. We found that daily walking exercise is related inversely to total 
mortality before and after adjusting for the other factors in particular for age 
group and health conditions. We observed that hazard ratio (HR) of death was the 
highest among those individuals having a history of cancer (HR = 2.971) and 
history of stroke (HR = 2.127). However, individuals with a history of stroke in 
the "daily walking group" have HR = 0.856 and their risk of death were reduced 
by 81% compared to those in no "daily walking group."

DOI: 10.3389/fpubh.2013.00011
PMCID: PMC3854856
PMID: 24350181


856. Acta Orthop Belg. 2013 Oct;79(5):475-82.

Diagnosis and treatment of spondylodiscitis in HIV-positive patients.

Siewe J(1), Oppermann J(2), Eysel P(2), Zarghooni K(2), Sobottke R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Trauma Surgery, University Hospital of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany. jan.siewe@uk-koeln.de
(2)Department of Orthopaedics and Trauma Surgery, University Hospital of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(3)Department of Orthopaedics, Medical Center City Aachen GmBH, Wuerselen, 
Germany.

With an incidence between 1:100,000 and 1:250,000, spondylodiscitis is rare, but 
is increasingly reported due to longer life expectancy, risk factors, and 
comorbidities, with HIV+ patients being at greater risk. We reviewed the 
literature on the diagnostic tools, and on the benefits and drawbacks of 
different treatments of spondylodiscitis in HIV- positive patients. We discuss 
basic strategies and indications for surgery. Recently, the trend was toward 
early mobilization of patients after surgical treatment. Modern surgical and 
antibiotic treatment can prevent a recurrence in these patients. The decision to 
opt for conservative or surgical treatment should be made depending on the 
extent of infection and the responsible pathogen, without regard to HIV. 
However, these patients should be treated in a specialized hospital by an 
experienced interdisciplinary team of consultants.

PMID: 24350505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. BMC Health Serv Res. 2013 Dec 19;13:527. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-527.

Magnesium sulphate for fetal neuroprotection: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Bickford CD(1), Magee LA, Mitton C, Kruse M, Synnes AR, Sawchuck D, Basso M, 
Senikas VM, von Dadelszen P; MAG-CP Working Group.

Author information:
(1)School of Population and Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. celesteb@interchange.ubc.ca.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of 
administering magnesium sulphate to patients in whom preterm birth 
at < 32+0 weeks gestation is either imminent or threatened for the purpose of 
fetal neuroprotection.
METHODS: Multiple decision tree models and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were used to compare the administration of magnesium sulphate with the 
alternative of no treatment. Two separate cost perspectives were utilized in 
this series of analyses: a health system and a societal perspective. In 
addition, two separate measures of effectiveness were utilized: cases of 
cerebral palsy (CP) averted and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: From a health system and a societal perspective, respectively, a 
savings of $2,242 and $112,602 is obtained for each QALY gained and a savings of 
$30,942 and $1,554,198 is obtained for each case of CP averted when magnesium 
sulphate is administered to patients in whom preterm birth is imminent. From a 
health system perspective and a societal perspective, respectively, a cost of 
$2,083 is incurred and a savings of $108,277 is obtained for each QALY gained 
and a cost of $28,755 is incurred and a savings of $1,494,500 is obtained for 
each case of CP averted when magnesium sulphate is administered to patients in 
whom preterm birth is threatened.
CONCLUSIONS: Administration of magnesium sulphate to patients in whom preterm 
birth is imminent is a dominant (i.e. cost-effective) strategy, no matter what 
cost perspective or measure of effectiveness is used. Administration of 
magnesium sulphate to patients in whom preterm birth is threatened is a dominant 
strategy from a societal perspective and is very likely to be cost-effective 
from a health system perspective.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-13-527
PMCID: PMC3878233
PMID: 24350635 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. J Med Econ. 2014 Apr;17(4):250-8. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2013.877469. Epub
2014  Feb 20.

Cost-minimization comparison of darunavir plus ritonavir and lopinavir/ritonavir 
in HIV-1 infected treatment-naïve women of childbearing age.

Möller J(1), Desai K, Simpson K, Baran RW, Van de Steen O, Dietz B, Gooch K.

Author information:
(1)Evidera , Modeling, London , UK.

BACKGROUND: Guidelines from the Department of Health and Human Services in the 
US recommend ritonavir-boosted lopinavir (LPV/r) as a preferred protease 
inhibitor (PI) for HIV-positive antiretroviral-naїve pregnant women. These 
guidelines also cite ritonavir-boosted darunavir (DRV + RTV) as an alternative 
PI in this clinical scenario. The purpose of this analysis was to compare 
economic outcomes for regimens based on these two treatments.
STUDY DESIGN: An existing discrete event simulation (DES) model was adapted to 
conduct a cost-minimization analysis comparing the two regimens in HIV-infected 
women of childbearing age (WOCBA), from the perspective of a healthcare payer in 
the US.
METHODS: The DES model was used to represent disease states, health events, 
healthcare encounters, pregnancy, and treatment choices in HIV-infected WOCBA 
starting treatment with regimens based on either LPV/r or DRV + RTV. It also 
incorporated parameters for individual patient characteristics, and for 
