
Hansen CW(1).

Author information:
(1)Aarhus University, Department of Economics and Business, Fuglesangs Allé 4, 
8210 Aarhus V, Denmark. Electronic address: cworm@econ.au.dk.

Exploiting preintervention variation in mortality from various infectious 
diseases, together with the time variation arising from medical breakthroughs in 
the late 1940s and the 1950s, this study examines how a large positive shock to 
life expectancy influenced the formation of human capital within countries 
during the second half of the 20th century. The results establish that the rise 
in life expectancy was behind a significant part of the increase in human 
capital over this period. According to the baseline estimate, for one additional 
year of life expectancy, years of schooling increase by 0.17 year. Moreover, the 
evidence suggests that declines in pneumonia mortality are the underlying cause 
of this finding, indicating that improved childhood health increases human 
capital investments.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2013.09.011
PMID: 24157844 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Tumori. 2013 May-Jun;99(3):425-38. doi: 10.1177/030089161309900319.

Useful indicators to interpret the cancer burden in Italy.

Vercelli M, Quaglia A, Lillini R.

INTRODUCTION: In the last decades the demographics of most Western countries 
have undergone a deep transformation, which has caused a steady increase in 
degenerative chronic diseases and has made maintaining health and social support 
by the welfare system difficult. This paper aims to present a set of indicators 
pertaining to the health status of the Italian population and to the national 
economic and social systems, as an aid to a better interpretation of the cancer 
burden impact and of its future tendencies.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: All indicators were derived from the ISTAT Health for All 
database. They were presented by region or macro area, globally or by gender, 
considering the most recent regional distribution and their time trends. The 
following features of the Italian population were chosen: percent of people aged 
over 65 years; life expectancy at birth; birth rate; crude and age-standardized 
overall mortality rates; dependency ratio; percent of single persons; percent of 
people with no more than a junior high school diploma; percent of people 
attaining at least the short first university degree; percent of people employed 
in the service and tertiary sectors; unemployment rate; incidence of poverty; 
total health expenditure (THE) as an absolute value and as percent of GDP; 
percent of public THE; percent of out-of-pocket THE of households; percent of 
smokers; proportion of overweight and obese people aged ≥18 years.
RESULTS: Italy presented an unbalanced demographic situation with an 
increasingly old population, a decreasing middle-aged age group, a low birth 
rate, high crude overall mortality rates, and decreasing standardized overall 
mortality rates. The Italian population is characterized by a constant increase 
in the dependency ratio and in the percentage of people living alone, together 
with increasing expenses for health care, both at the public and households 
levels. Smoking has reduced its impact in men but not yet in women. The 
increasing proportion of overweight and obese people may explain the convergence 
in time of the mortality rates of the different Italian macro areas.
DISCUSSION AND CONCLUSION: The Italian situation seems to be not well fitted to 
face the expected growing cancer burden. Along with the aging of the population, 
the corresponding lowering of the national GDP due to the persisting global 
economic crisis will lead the public sector and families to reduce health 
expenditure, while the number of people affected by cancer is bound to increase. 
Moreover, the social support provided by family members and the advantages of 
the Mediterranean dietary habits are declining. The strategies for facing the 
challenging evolution of the future should focus on successful primary 
prevention and a wider application of evidence-based medicine to optimize the 
choice of diagnostic and therapeutic procedures offered to citizens.

DOI: 10.1177/030089161309900319
PMID: 24158073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Dent Res. 2013 Dec;92(12 Suppl):183S-8S. doi: 10.1177/0022034513504927.
Epub  2013 Oct 24.

Cost-effectiveness of anterior implants versus fixed dental prostheses.

Zitzmann NU(1), Krastl G, Weiger R, Kühl S, Sendi P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Periodontology, Endodontology, and Cariology, University of 
Basel, Hebelstrasse 3, CH-4056, Basel, Switzerland.

For the restoration of an anterior missing tooth, implant-supported single 
crowns (ISCs) or fixed dental prostheses (FDPs) are indicated, but it is not 
clear which type of restoration is more cost-effective. A self-selected trial 
was performed with 15 patients with ISCs and 11 with FDPs. Patient preferences 
were recorded with visual analog scales before treatment, 1 month following 
restoration, and then annually. Quality-adjusted tooth years (QATYs) were 
estimated by considering the type of reconstruction for replacing the missing 
tooth and its effect on the adjacent teeth. A stochastic cost-effectiveness 
model was developed using Monte Carlo simulation. The expected costs and QATYs 
were summarized in cost-effectiveness acceptability curves. ISC was the dominant 
strategy, with a QATY increase of 0.01 over 3 years and 0.04 over 10 years with 
a higher probability of being cost-effective. While both treatment options 
provided satisfactory long-term results from the patient's perspective, the 
lower initial costs, particularly laboratory fees, were responsible for the 
dominance of ISCs over FDPs.

DOI: 10.1177/0022034513504927
PMCID: PMC3860069
PMID: 24158338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the authorship and/or publication of this article.


369. Curr Neurol Neurosci Rep. 2013 Dec;13(12):404. doi:
10.1007/s11910-013-0404-x.

Neuro-ophthalmologic complications of neoplastic leptomeningeal disease.

Szatmáry G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Neuro-Ophthalmology Unit, Hattiesburg Clinic PA, 415 
South 28th Avenue, Hattiesburg, MS, 39401, USA, gszatmary@yahoo.com.

Neoplastic leptomeningeal disease (NLD), which encompasses both primary and 
secondary leptomeningeal tumors, has a devastating impact on the life of cancer 
patients. The present diagnostic technical armamentarium is insufficient for 
early diagnosis of NLD. However, NLD may present with subtle neuro-ophthalmic 
features at a time of relatively small tumor burden, which gives the provider 
first encountering these patients the window of opportunity for early diagnosis 
and consequently improved life expectancy and quality of life of these patients. 
Therefore, familiarity with early, often subtle neuro-ophthalmic features is an 
essential tool for diagnosing these patients prior to the development of fixed 
deficits, which usually portend a dismal prognosis. Future evolving laboratory 
and neuroimaging technologies are expected to advance our understanding of 
underlying pathophysiology and early detection of NLD. This paper provides an 
up-to-date review and synthesis of the current literature with focus on 
neuro-ophthalmic features and their underlying pathophysiology.

DOI: 10.1007/s11910-013-0404-x
PMID: 24158499 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Bull Cancer. 2013 Nov;100(11):1141-51. doi: 10.1684/bdc.2013.1853.

[Surgical treatment of vertebral metastases].

[Article in French]

Zairi F(1), D'Houtaud S, Assaker R.

Author information:
(1)CHRU de Lille, hôpital Roger Salengro, service de neurochirurgie, rue 
Émile-Laine, 59000 Lille, France.

The multiplicity of clinical presentations and the lack of consensus explain 
that the treatment of spine metastasis remains controversial. Optimal treatment 
requires a truly multidisciplinary approach, involving oncologists, 
interventional radiologists, radiation oncologists, rheumatologists and spine 
surgeons. Recent progress in all these areas have allowed to provide safe and 
effective therapeutic solutions tailored to each situation. We remind, in this 
work, the main progress in the surgical field, specifying the role of surgery in 
the current therapeutic arsenal.

DOI: 10.1684/bdc.2013.1853
PMID: 24158726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2014 Sep;69(9):1087-91. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glt159. Epub 2013 Oct 24.

Impact of climate change on elder health.

Carnes BA(1), Staats D(2), Willcox BJ(3).

Author information:
(1)The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, College of Medicine, 
Reynolds Department of Geriatric Medicine, Oklahoma City. 
Bruce-Carnes@ouhsc.edu.
(2)The University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, College of Medicine, 
Reynolds Department of Geriatric Medicine, Oklahoma City.
(3)Department of Geriatric Medicine, John A. Burns School of Medicine, 
University of Hawaii, Honolulu. Department of Research, Kuakini Medical Center, 
Honolulu, Hawaii.

Demographers predict human life expectancy will continue to increase over the 
coming century. These forecasts are based on two critical assumptions: advances 
in medical technology will continue apace and the environment that sustains us 
will remain unchanged. The consensus of the scientific community is that human 
activity contributes to global climate change. That change will degrade air and 
water quality, and global temperature could rise 11.5°F by 2100. If nothing is 
done to alter this climatic trajectory, humans will be confronted by a broad 
spectrum of radical environmental challenges. Historically, children and the 
elderly adults account for most of the death toll during times of severe 
environmental stress. This article makes an assessment from a geriatric 
viewpoint of the adverse health consequences that global climate change will 
bring to the older segments of future populations in the United States.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glt159
PMCID: PMC4202258
PMID: 24158763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2013 Dec;8(12):2165-73. doi: 10.2215/CJN.03350313.
Epub  2013 Oct 24.

The cost-effectiveness of using payment to increase living donor kidneys for 
transplantation.

Barnieh L(1), Gill JS, Klarenbach S, Manns BJ.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Medicine and, ‖Community Health Sciences, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada;, †Department of Nephrology, University of 
British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada;, ‡Department of Medicine, 
University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alberta, Canada, §Alberta Kidney Disease 
Network, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

Comment in
    Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2013 Dec;8(12):2031-3.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: For eligible candidates, transplantation is 
considered the optimal treatment compared with dialysis for patients with ESRD. 
The growing number of patients with ESRD requires new strategies to increase the 
pool of potential donors.
DESIGN, SETTING, PARTICIPANTS, & MEASUREMENTS: Using decision analysis modeling, 
this study compared a strategy of paying living kidney donors to waitlisted 
recipients on dialysis with the current organ donation system. In the base case 
estimate, this study assumed that the number of donors would increase by 5% with 
a payment of $10,000. Quality of life estimates, resource use, and costs (2010 
Canadian dollars) were based on the best available published data.
RESULTS: Compared with the current organ donation system, a strategy of 
increasing the number of kidneys for transplantation by 5% by paying living 
donors $10,000 has an incremental cost-savings of $340 and a gain of 0.11 
quality-adjusted life years. Increasing the number of kidneys for 
transplantation by 10% and 20% would translate into incremental cost-savings of 
$1640 and $4030 and incremental quality-adjusted life years gain of 0.21 and 
0.39, respectively.
CONCLUSION: Although the impact is uncertain, this model suggests that a 
strategy of paying living donors to increase the number of kidneys available for 
transplantation could be cost-effective, even with a transplant rate increase of 
only 5%. Future work needs to examine the feasibility, legal policy, ethics, and 
public perception of a strategy to pay living donors.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.03350313
PMCID: PMC3848395
PMID: 24158797 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Antioxid Redox Signal. 2014 Feb 1;20(4):727-31. doi: 10.1089/ars.2013.5228.
Epub  2013 Dec 4.

The free radical theory of aging is dead. Long live the damage theory!

Gladyshev VN(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital , 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.

The free radical theory of aging posits that aging is caused by accumulation of 
damage inflicted by reactive oxygen species (ROS). Although this concept has 
been very useful in defining the contribution of oxidative damage to the aging 
process, an increasing number of studies contradict it. The idea that oxidative 
damage represents only one of many causes of aging also has limitations, as it 
does not explain causal relationships and inevitability of damage accumulation. 
Here, it is discussed that infidelity, heterogeneity, and imperfectness of each 
and every biological process may be responsible for the inevitable accumulation 
of by-products and other damage forms. Although ROS are prototypical 
by-products, their contribution to aging is governed by the metabolic 
organization of the cell, its protective systems, and genotype. These factors 
are controlled by natural selection and, like dietary and genetic interventions 
that extend lifespan, change the composition of cumulative damage and the rates 
of accumulation of its various forms. Oxidative damage, like other specific 
damage types viewed in isolation or in combination, does not represent the cause 
of aging. Instead, biological imperfectness, which leads to inevitable 
accumulation of damage in the form of mildly deleterious molecular species, may 
help define the true root of aging. Free radical and other specialized damage 
theories served their purpose in the understanding of the aging process, but in 
the current form they limit further progress in this area.

DOI: 10.1089/ars.2013.5228
PMCID: PMC3901353
PMID: 24159899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. J Neurosurg. 2014 Jan;120(1):40-51. doi: 10.3171/2013.8.JNS13535. Epub 2013
Oct  25.

True petroclival meningiomas: results of surgical management.

Almefty R(1), Dunn IF, Pravdenkova S, Abolfotoh M, Al-Mefty O.

Author information:
(1)Barrow Neurological Institute, Phoenix, Arizona;

OBJECT: The relentless natural progression of petroclival meningiomas mandates 
their treatment. The management of these tumors, however, is challenging. Among 
the issues debated are goals of treatment, outcomes, and quality of life, 
appropriate extent of surgical removal, the role of skull base approaches, and 
the efficacy of combined decompressive surgery and radiosurgery. The authors 
report on the outcome in a series of patients treated with the goal of total 
removal.
METHODS: The authors conducted a retrospective analysis of 64 cases of 
petroclival meningiomas operated on by the senior author (O.A.) from 1988 to 
2012, strictly defined as those originating medial to the fifth cranial nerve on 
the upper two-thirds of the clivus. The patients' average age was 49 years; the 
average tumor size (maximum diameter) was 35.48 ± 10.09 mm (with 59 tumors > 20 
mm), and cavernous sinus extension was present in 39 patients. The mean duration 
of follow-up was 71.57 months (range 4-276 months).
RESULTS: In 42 patients, the operative reports allowed the grading of resection. 
Grade I resection (tumor, dura, and bone) was achieved in 17 patients (40.4%); 
there was no recurrence in this group (p = 0.0045). Grade II (tumor, dura) was 
achieved in 15 patients (36%). There was a statistically significant difference 
in the rate of recurrence with respect to resection grade (Grades I and II vs 
other grades, p = 0.0052). In all patients, tumor removal was classified based 
on postoperative contrast-enhanced MRI, and gross-total resection (GTR) was 
considered to be achieved if there was no enhancement present; on this basis, 
GTR was achieved in 41 (64%) of 64 patients, with a significantly lower 
recurrence rate in these patients than in the group with residual enhancement (p 
= 0.00348). One patient died from pulmonary embolism after discharge. The mean 
Karnofsky Performance Status (KPS) score was 85.31 preoperatively (median 90) 
and improved on follow-up to 88, with 30 patients (47%) having an improved KPS 
score on follow-up. Three patients suffered a permanent deficit that 
significantly affected their KPS. Cerebrospinal fluid leak occurred in 8 
patients (12.5%), with 2 of them requiring exploration. Eighty-nine percent of 
the patients had cranial nerve deficits on presentation; of the 54 patients with 
more than 2 months of follow-up, 21 (32.8%) had persisting cranial nerve 
deficits. The overall odds of permanent cranial nerve deficit of treated 
petroclival meningioma was 6.2%. There was no difference with respect to 
immediate postoperative cranial nerve deficit in patients who had GTR compared 
with those who had subtotal resection.
CONCLUSIONS: Total removal (Grade I or II resection) of petroclival meningiomas 
is achievable in 76.4% of cases and is facilitated by the use of skull base 
approaches, with good outcome and functional status. In cases in which 
circumstances prevent total removal, residual tumors can be followed until 
progression is evident, at which point further intervention can be planned.

DOI: 10.3171/2013.8.JNS13535
PMID: 24160473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. BMC Public Health. 2013 Oct 26;13:1012. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-1012.

Ethnic and gender specific life expectancies of the Singapore population, 1965 
to 2009 - converging, or diverging?

Lim RB(1), Zheng H, Yang Q, Cook AR, Chia KS, Lim WY.

Author information:
(1)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore, MD3, 
16 Medical Drive, Singapore 117597, Singapore. raymondlim1302@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The increase in life expectancy and the persistence of expectancy 
gaps between different social groups in the 20th century are well-described in 
Western developed countries, but less well documented in the newly 
industrialised countries of Asia. Singapore, a multiethnic island-state, has 
undergone a demographic and epidemiologic transition concomitant with economic 
development. We evaluate secular trends and differences in life expectancy by 
ethnicity and gender in Singapore, from independence to the present.
METHODS: Period abridged life tables were constructed to derive the life 
expectancy of the Singapore population from 1965 to 2009 using data from the 
Department of Statistics and the Registry of Births and Deaths, Singapore.
RESULTS: All 3 of Singapore's main ethnic groups, and both genders, experienced 
an increase in life expectancy at birth and at 65 years from 1965 to 2009, 
though at substantially different rates. Although there has been a convergence 
in life expectancy between Indians and Chinese, the (substantial) gap between 
Malays and the other two ethnic groups has remained. Females continued to have a 
higher life expectancy at birth and at 65 years than males throughout this 
period, with no evidence of convergence.
CONCLUSIONS: Ethnic and gender differences in life expectancy persist in 
Singapore despite its rapid economic development. Targeted chronic disease 
prevention measures and health promotion activities focusing on people of Malay 
ethnicity and the male community may be needed to remedy this inequality.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-1012
PMCID: PMC3924730
PMID: 24160733 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Leuk Lymphoma. 2014 Aug;55(8):1758-67. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2013.858149.
Epub  2014 Feb 6.

Medical decision analysis for first-line therapy of chronic myeloid leukemia.

Rochau U(1), Sroczynski G, Wolf D, Schmidt S, Conrads-Frank A, Jahn B, Saverno 
K, Brixner D, Radich J, Gastl G, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment, Department of Public Health and Health Technology Assessment, UMIT - 
University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology , Hall i.T. , 
Austria.

Several tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are approved for the treatment of 
chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Our goal was to develop a clinical 
decision-analytic model for evaluation of the long-term effectiveness of 
different therapy regimens. We developed a Markov cohort model with a lifelong 
time horizon for first-line treatment with imatinib, dasatinib or nilotinib. 
Seven strategies including combinations of TKIs, chemotherapy and stem cell 
transplant were evaluated. The model was parameterized using published trial 
data, the Austrian CML registry and practice patterns estimated by experts. 
Health outcomes evaluated were life-years (LYs) and quality-adjusted LYs 
(QALYs). Based on our decision analysis, dasatinib following nilotinib failure 
was the most effective treatment in terms of LYs (19.8 LYs) and QALYs (16.1 
QALYs). Sensitivity analyses showed that the ranking of strategies was mostly 
influenced by the duration of first- and second-line therapies. Our results may 
support decision-making regarding the sequential application of TKIs.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2013.858149
PMID: 24160847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Annu Rev Med. 2014;65:459-69. doi: 10.1146/annurev-med-060112-095857. Epub
2013  Oct 16.

New cost-effective treatment strategies for acute emergency situations.

Chandra S(1), Chong DH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary, Allergy and Critical Care, 
Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York 
10032; email: sc3328@columbia.edu , dhc5@columbia.edu.

In an era of ever-increasing healthcare costs, new treatments must not only 
improve outcomes and quality of care but also be cost-effective. This is most 
challenging for emergency and critical care. Bigger and better has been the 
mantra of Western medical care for decades, leading to costlier but not 
necessarily better care. Recent advances focused on new implementation processes 
for evidence-based best practices such as checklists and bundles have 
transformed medical care. We outline recent advances in medical practice that 
have positively affected both the quality of care and its cost-effectiveness. 
Future medical care must be smarter and more effective if we are to meet the 
increasing demands of an aging patient population in the context of ever more 
limited resources.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-med-060112-095857
PMID: 24160941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. Clin Nephrol. 2014 Jan;81(1):38-51. doi: 10.5414/CN108100.

Cost-effectiveness of antiplatelet therapy to prolong primary patency of 
hemodialysis graft.

Nee R, Parker AL, Little DJ, Yuan CM, Himmelfarb J, Lowe SR, Abbott KC.

INTRODUCTION: The Dialysis Access Consortium (DAC) study group previously 
reported that treatment with extended-release dipyridamole plus aspirin (DASA) 
resulted in a significant but clinically modest improvement in primary 
unassisted arteriovenous graft (AVG) patency. Utilizing DAC published data, the 
objective of this study is to evaluate the cost effectiveness of antiplatelet 
interventions aimed at preventing loss of primary AVG patency in hemodialysis 
(HD) patients.
METHODS: We performed a cost-utility analysis, using a decision analysis tree 
model with a 12-month time horizon and a third party payer perspective. 
Interventions included DASA with and without concurrent aspirin, aspirin alone, 
and no prophylaxis. The modeled population was defined as adult (≥ 18 years of 
age) end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients who had undergone placement of a 
new AVG in the United States. The outcomes were costs, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALY), incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, and net monetary 
benefit. Probabilities were based upon published studies performed by the DAC 
Study Group while costs of medications and procedures were drawn from public 
sources. Utilities of health states were derived from published reports and the 
Short Form 6D (SF-6D) instrument.
RESULTS: Aspirin alone is the most cost effective strategy for AVG pharmacologic 
prophylaxis, as compared to no prophylaxis or DASA with or without concurrent 
aspirin. The results are robust on multiple scenario analyses using both 
deterministic and Monte Carlo probabilistic sensitivity analyses. Accounting for 
both costs and QALY, using aspirin alone to prevent AVG thrombosis can 
potentially reduce healthcare costs by $24,679,412 per year compared to no 
aspirin use, at a willingness-to-pay of $50,000/ QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Aspirin monotherapy compared favorably to other strategies based on 
cost per QALY. Our findings support the use of aspirin prophylaxis in HD 
patients with a new AVG who do not have a contraindication to aspirin.

DOI: 10.5414/CN108100
PMID: 24161074 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Enferm Clin. 2014 Jan-Feb;24(1):18-22. doi: 10.1016/j.enfcli.2013.08.007.
Epub  2013 Oct 23.

[Social and organizational innovation to tackle the challenge of integrated care 
of the chronically ill].

[Article in Spanish]

Nuño-Solinís R(1).

Author information:
(1)Director, O+Berri, Instituto Vasco de Innovación Sanitaria, Sondika, Bizkaia, 
España. Electronic address: nuno@bioef.org.

The increase in life expectancy, coupled with other factors, has led to an 
increase in the prevalence of chronic diseases and multiple morbidity. This has 
led to the need to develop new health and social care models, which will allow 
managing these efficiently and in a sustainable manner. In particular, there 
seems to be consensus on the need to move towards integrated, patient-centered, 
and more proactive care. Thus, in recent years, chronic care models have been 
developed at international, national and regional level, as well as introducing 
strategies to tackle the challenge of chronic illness. However, the 
implementation of actions facilitating the change towards this new model of care 
does not seem to be an easy task. This paper presents some of the strategic 
lines and initiatives carried out by the Department of Health of the Basque 
Government. These actions can be described within a social and organizational 
innovation framework, as a means for effective implementation of interventions 
and strategies that shape the model required for the improved care of chronic 
illnesses within a universal and tax-funded health system.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier España, S.L. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.enfcli.2013.08.007
PMID: 24161846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Childs Nerv Syst. 2014 Mar;30(3):461-9. doi: 10.1007/s00381-013-2306-2. Epub
 2013 Oct 27.

Pediatric intracranial arachnoid cysts: comparative effectiveness of surgical 
treatment options.

Ali ZS(1), Lang SS, Bakar D, Storm PB, Stein SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Pennsylvania, 3400 Spruce Street, 
3rd Floor Silverstein Pavilion, Philadelphia, PA, 19104, USA, 
zarinasali@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: A variety of surgical approaches for the treatment of pediatric 
intracranial arachnoid cysts exist. In an effort to identify the optimal 
surgical treatment for this disorder, we developed a decision analytic model to 
evaluate outcomes of four surgical approaches in children. These included open 
craniotomy for cyst excision, open craniotomy for cyst fenestration, endoscopic 
cyst fenestration, and cystoperitoneal shunting.
METHODS: Pooled data were used to create evidence tables, from which we 
calculated incidence, relative risks, and summary outcomes in quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs) for the four surgical treatments. Our study incorporated data 
up to 5 years postsurgery.
RESULTS: We analyzed 1,324 cases from 36 case series. There were no significant 
differences in outcome among the four surgical strategies. The QALYs (maximum of 
5) for surgical approaches resulted in a range from 4.79 (for open craniotomy 
and excision) to 4.92 (for endoscopic fenestration).
CONCLUSIONS: Overall quality of life is comparable between patients undergoing 
open craniotomy for cyst excision or fenestration, endoscopic fenestration, and 
cystoperitoneal shunting up to 5 years after surgery. While each approach offers 
unique advantages and disadvantages, an individualized treatment strategy should 
be employed in the setting of surgical outcome equipoise.

DOI: 10.1007/s00381-013-2306-2
PMID: 24162618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. N Z Med J. 2013 Oct 18;126(1384):123-5.

Is public meningococcal C vaccination the preferred value for money at 
cost-neutral?

Gravatt L(1).

Author information:
(1)Te Arai BioFarma Ltd, Herne Bay, Auckland, New Zealand.

PMID: 24162638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. BMJ. 2013 Oct 25;347:f6342. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f6342.

Cost effectiveness of a manual based coping strategy programme in promoting the 
mental health of family carers of people with dementia (the START (STrAtegies 
for RelaTives) study): a pragmatic randomised controlled trial.

Knapp M(1), King D, Romeo R, Schehl B, Barber J, Griffin M, Rapaport P, 
Livingston D, Mummery C, Walker Z, Hoe J, Sampson EL, Cooper C, Livingston G.

Author information:
(1)Personal Social Services Research Unit, London School of Economics and 
Political Science, London WC2A 2AE, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To assess whether the START (STrAtegies for RelatTives) intervention 
added to treatment as usual is cost effective compared with usual treatment 
alone.
DESIGN: Cost effectiveness analysis nested within a pragmatic randomised 
controlled trial.
SETTING: Three mental health and one neurological outpatient dementia service in 
London and Essex, UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Family carers of people with dementia.
INTERVENTION: Eight session, manual based, coping intervention delivered by 
supervised psychology graduates to family carers of people with dementia added 
to usual treatment, compared with usual treatment alone.
PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Costs measured from a health and social care 
perspective were analysed alongside the Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale 
total score (HADS-T) of affective symptoms and quality adjusted life years 
(QALYs) in cost effectiveness analyses over eight months from baseline.
RESULTS: Of the 260 participants recruited to the study, 173 were randomised to 
the START intervention, and 87 to usual treatment alone. Mean HADS-T scores were 
lower in the intervention group than the usual treatment group over the 8 month 
evaluation period (mean difference -1.79 (95% CI -3.32 to -0.33)), indicating 
better outcomes associated with the START intervention. There was a small 
improvement in health related quality of life as measured by QALYs (0.03 (-0.01 
to 0.08)). Costs were no different between the intervention and usual treatment 
groups (£252 (-28 to 565) higher for START group). The cost effectiveness 
calculations suggested that START had a greater than 99% chance of being cost 
effective compared with usual treatment alone at a willingness to pay threshold 
of £30,000 per QALY gained, and a high probability of cost effectiveness on the 
HADS-T measure.
CONCLUSIONS: The manual based coping intervention START, when added to treatment 
as usual, was cost effective compared with treatment as usual alone by reference 
to both outcome measures (affective symptoms for family carers, and carer based 
QALYs).
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ISCTRN 70017938.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f6342
PMCID: PMC3808080
PMID: 24162943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the Unified Competing Interest form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf 
(available on request from the corresponding author) and declare: support from 
the Health Technology Assessment (HTA) for the submitted work; no financial 
relationships with any organisations that might have an interest in the 
submitted work in the previous 3 years; no other relationships or activities 
that could appear to have influenced the submitted work.


383. Swiss Med Wkly. 2013 Oct 25;143:w13854. doi: 10.4414/smw.2013.13854.
eCollection  2013.

Costs of current antihypertensive therapy in Switzerland: an economic evaluation 
of 3,489 patients in primary care.

Schäfer HH(1), Scheunert U.

Author information:
(1)Chris Barnard Division of Cardiothoracic Surgerry, University of Cape Town, 
SOUTH AFRICA; Hendrik.Schaefer@gmx.ch.

QUESTION UNDER STUDY: Due to greater life expectancy, costs of medication have 
increased within the last decade. This investigation assesses health care 
expenditures needed to manage the current state of blood pressure (BP) control 
in Switzerland.
OBJECTIVES: a) average day therapy costs (DTC) of substances, b) actual DTC of 
currently prescribed antihypertensive therapy, c) monetary differences of 
treatment regimens within different BP-groups and different high risk patients, 
d) estimated compliance-related financial loss/annum and adjusted costs/annum. 
Single-pill-combinations appear to be useful to increase patient's compliance, 
to reduce side effects and to bring more patients to their blood pressure goal.
METHODS: Costs were identified based on data from the Swiss department of 
health. We calculated DTC for each patient using prices of the largest available 
tablet box.
RESULTS: The average antihypertensive therapy in Switzerland currently costs CHF 
1.198 ± 0.732 per day. On average beta blockers were the cheapest substances, 
followed by angiotensin converting enzyme inhibitors (ARBs), calcium channel 
blockers and diuretics. The widest price ranges were observed within the class 
of ARBs. Most expensive were patients with impaired renal function. Throughout 
all stages, single-pill-combinations appeared to be significantly cheaper than 
dual-free-combinations. Stage-II-hypertension yielded the highest costs for dual 
free combination drug use. The actual costs for all patients observed in this 
analysis added up to CHF 1,525,962. Based on a compliance model, only treatment 
amounting to CHF 921,353 is expected to be actually taken.
CONCLUSION: A disproportionately high healthcare cost is expected due to 
compliance reasons. The prescription of mono-therapies appears to be a major 
cost factor, thus, the use of single-pill-combination therapy can be considered 
as a suitable approach to saving costs throughout all BP- stages.

DOI: 10.4414/smw.2013.13854
PMID: 24163048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. J Telemed Telecare. 2013 Jul;19(5):242-8. doi: 10.1177/1357633X13495478.
Epub  2013 Jul 9.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of telemonitoring versus usual care in patients with 
heart failure: the TEHAF-study.

Boyne JJ(1), Van Asselt AD, Gorgels AP, Steuten LM, De Weerd G, Kragten J, 
Vrijhoef HJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Patient and Care, Maastricht University Medical Centre, 
Maastricht, The Netherlands.

We examined the incremental cost-effectiveness of telemonitoring (TM) versus 
usual care (UC) in patients with congestive heart failure (CHF). In one 
university and two general hospitals, 382 patients were randomised to usual care 
or telemonitoring and followed for 1 year. Hospital-related and home costs were 
estimated, based on resource use multiplied by the appropriate unit prices. 
Effectiveness was expressed as QALYs gained. Information was gathered, using 3 
monthly costs diaries and questionnaires. The mean age of the patients was 71 
years (range 32-93), 59% were male and 64% lived with a partner. Health related 
quality of life improved by 0.07 points for the usual care and 0.1 points for 
the telemonitoring group, but the difference between groups was not significant. 
There were no significant differences in annual costs per patient between 
groups. At a threshold of €50,000 the probability of telemonitoring being 
cost-effective was 48%. The cost effectiveness analysis showed a high level of 
decision uncertainty, probably caused by the divergence between the 
participating institutions. It is therefore premature to draw an unambiguous 
conclusion regarding cost-effectiveness for the whole group.

DOI: 10.1177/1357633X13495478
PMID: 24163233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Rejuvenation Res. 2014 Apr;17(2):212-6. doi: 10.1089/rej.2013.1523. Epub
2014  Apr 11.

Association of Klotho polymorphisms with healthy aging: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Di Bona D(1), Accardi G, Virruso C, Candore G, Caruso C.

Author information:
(1)1 Immunosenescence Unit, Department of Pathobiology and Medical and Forensic 
Biotechnologies, University Hospital, University of Palermo , Palermo, Italy .

Today it is clearly evident that genetic background constitutes an integral part 
of aging and longevity. Many studies on long-lived people have been conducted 
emphasizing the role of certain genes in long life. Classic case-control 
studies, genome-wide association studies, and high-throughput sequencing have 
permitted identification of a variety of genetic variants seemingly associated 
with longevity. Over the years, aging research has focused on the 
insulin/insulin-like growth factor-1 (IGF-1) signaling pathway because of its 
evolutionarily conserved correlation with life-span extension in model animals. 
Indeed, many single-nucleotide polymorphisms (SNPs) associated with longevity 
were identified in genes encoding proteins that take part in this metabolic 
pathway. Closely related to this pathway is the Klotho gene. It encodes a type-I 
membrane protein expressed in two forms, membrane and secreted. The latter form 
suppresses oxidative stress and growth factor signaling and regulates ion 
channels and transporters. In particular, its over-expression seems to be able 
to suppress insulin/IGF-1 signaling extending life span. Thus, our aim was to 
assemble the results in the literature concerning the association between the 
functional variant of the Klotho "KL-VS" stretch, which contains six 
polymorphisms in linkage disequilibrium, and successful aging to quantify the 
possible effect of the variants. The results of our systematic review indicate 
that the Klotho KL-VS variant is associated with healthy aging.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2013.1523
PMID: 24164579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. FEMS Yeast Res. 2014 Feb;14(1):73-88. doi: 10.1111/1567-1364.12115. Epub
2013  Nov 14.

Yeast sirtuins and the regulation of aging.

Wierman MB(1), Smith JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Genetics, University of Virginia 
School of Medicine, Charlottesville, VA, USA.

The sirtuins are a phylogenetically conserved family of NAD(+) -dependent 
protein deacetylases that consume one molecule of NAD(+) for every deacetylated 
lysine side chain. Their requirement for NAD(+) potentially makes them prone to 
regulation by fluctuations in NAD(+) or biosynthesis intermediates, thus linking 
them to cellular metabolism. The Sir2 protein from Saccharomyces cerevisiae is 
the founding sirtuin family member and has been well characterized as a histone 
deacetylase that functions in transcriptional silencing of heterochromatin 
domains and as a pro-longevity factor for replicative life span (RLS), defined 
as the number of times a mother cell divides (buds) before senescing. Deleting 
SIR2 shortens RLS, while increased gene dosage causes extension. Furthermore, 
Sir2 has been implicated in mediating the beneficial effects of caloric 
restriction (CR) on life span, not only in yeast, but also in higher eukaryotes. 
While this paradigm has had its share of disagreements and debate, it has also 
helped rapidly drive the aging research field forward. S. cerevisiae has four 
additional sirtuins, Hst1, Hst2, Hst3, and Hst4. This review discusses the 
function of Sir2 and the Hst homologs in replicative aging and chronological 
aging, and also addresses how the sirtuins are regulated in response to 
environmental stresses such as CR.

© 2013 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/1567-1364.12115
PMCID: PMC4365911
PMID: 24164855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Australas J Ageing. 2013 Oct;32 Suppl 2:18-27. doi: 10.1111/ajag.12113.

The changing demographics of Australia over the last 30 years.

Hugo G(1).

Author information:
(1)The University of Adelaide, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/ajag.12113
PMID: 24164981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Trials. 2013 Oct 28;14:356. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-356.

The Multi Centre Canadian Acellular Dermal Matrix Trial (MCCAT): study protocol 
for a randomized controlled trial in implant-based breast reconstruction.

Zhong T(1), Temple-Oberle C, Hofer SO, Beber B, Semple J, Brown M, Macadam S, 
Lennox P, Panzarella T, McCarthy C, Baxter N; MCCAT Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, University Health Network, 
Toronto, ON, Canada. toni.zhong@uhn.ca.

Erratum in
    Trials. 2016;17:39. Hofer, Stefan [Corrected to Hofer, Stefan O P].

BACKGROUND: The two-stage tissue expander/implant (TE/I) reconstruction is 
currently the gold standard method of implant-based immediate breast 
reconstruction in North America. Recently, however, there have been numerous 
case series describing the use of one-stage direct to implant reconstruction 
with the aid of acellular dermal matrix (ADM). In order to rigorously 
investigate the novel application of ADM in one-stage implant reconstruction, we 
are currently conducting a multicentre randomized controlled trial (RCT) 
designed to evaluate the impact on patient satisfaction and quality of life 
(QOL) compared to the two-stage TE/I technique.
METHODS/DESIGNS: The MCCAT study is a multicenter Canadian ADM trial designed as 
a two-arm parallel superiority trial that will compare ADM-facilitated one-stage 
implant reconstruction compared to two-stage TE/I reconstruction following 
skin-sparing mastectomy (SSM) or nipple-sparing mastectomy (NSM) at 2 weeks, 6 
months, and 12 months. The source population will be members of the mastectomy 
cohort with stage T0 to TII disease, proficient in English, over the age of 18 
years, and planning to undergo SSM or NSM with immediate implant breast 
reconstruction. Stratified randomization will maintain a balanced distribution 
of important prognostic factors (study site and unilateral versus bilateral 
procedures). The primary outcome is patient satisfaction and QOL as measured by 
the validated and procedure-specific BREAST-Q. Secondary outcomes include short- 
and long-term complications, long-term aesthetic outcomes using five 
standardized photographs graded by three independent blinded observers, and a 
cost effectiveness analysis.
DISCUSSION: There is tremendous interest in using ADM in implant breast 
reconstruction, particularly in the setting of one-stage direct to implant 
reconstruction where it was previously not possible without the intermediary use 
of a temporary tissue expander (TE). This unique advantage has led many patients 
and surgeons alike to believe that one-stage ADM-assisted implant reconstruction 
should be the procedure of choice and should be offered to patients as the 
first-line treatment. We argue that it is crucial that this technique be 
scientifically evaluated in terms of patient selection, surgical technique, 
complications, aesthetic outcomes, cost-effectiveness, and most importantly 
patient-reported outcomes before it is promoted as the new gold standard in 
implant-based breast reconstruction.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov: NCT00956384.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-14-356
PMCID: PMC3842809
PMID: 24165392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Int J Clin Pract. 2013 Nov;67(11):1113-7. doi: 10.1111/ijcp.12217.

Contralateral relapse after surgery for breast cancer: evaluation of follow-up 
paradigms.

Kontos M(1), Roy P, Rizos D, Petrou A, Hamed H.

Author information:
(1)Breast Unit, Guy's and St Thomas' NHS Foundation Trust, Great maze Pond, 
London, UK.

Comment in
    Int J Clin Pract. 2013 Nov;67(11):1071-2.

BACKGROUND: Early treatment of breast cancer patients with loco-regional relapse 
or contralateral disease has been shown to improve survival. There is no current 
consensus on the optimal follow-up strategy. This study estimates the risk of 
isolated contralateral relapse (CR) after breast cancer surgery and its change 
over time, together with the efficacy of clinical examination, self-examination 
and mammography in the detection of CR.
METHODS: Data from patients treated for early breast cancer at Guy's Hospital 
between 1990 and 1997 were collected and those with isolated contralateral 
recurrences were analysed. Life table analysis was performed and CR, CR-free and 
cumulative CR rates were calculated. Correlations were evaluated using Pearson's 
correlation coefficient.
RESULTS: One thousand one hundred and forty-three women were included in the 
study and 23 patients had isolated CR. The median probability of CR was a 
constant 0.24% per year. Only one recurrence was found clinically at follow up, 
while the majority was detected through mammography and self-palpation.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk of CR is low and constant with time. Contralateral 
mammography is useful and can detect the vast majority of contralateral 
recurrences. These findings may have practical implications especially on the 
planning of postmastectomy follow up.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijcp.12217
PMID: 24165425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Int J Clin Pract. 2013 Nov;67(11):1210-1. doi: 10.1111/ijcp.12198.

Considering the affordability of ticagrelor when used according to NICE 
guidance.

Fell G(1), Reynolds B, Lindsay S, Keegan T, Lee D.

Author information:
(1)NHS Airedale, Bradford and Leeds, Douglas Mill, Bradford, UK. 
greg.fell@bradford.gov.uk.

DOI: 10.1111/ijcp.12198
PMID: 24165433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Female Pelvic Med Reconstr Surg. 2013 Nov-Dec;19(6):322-7. doi: 
10.1097/SPV.0b013e3182a5deb4.

Cost-effectiveness of test phase implantation strategies for InterStim® sacral 
neuromodulation.

Kantartzis KL(1), Shepherd JP.

Author information:
(1)From the Division of Urogynecology, Department of Obstetrics, Gynecology,and 
Reproductive Sciences, Magee Womens Hospital, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA.

OBJECTIVE: Sacral neuromodulation with InterStim can be performed with staged 
implants or peripheral nerve evaluation followed by a combined stage I/II 
procedure. In both, unilateral or bilateral leads can be placed for the testing 
phase. Our objective was to determine the cost-effectiveness of these strategies 
in patients with refractory overactive bladder.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness model compared 6 strategies, namely, unilateral 
and bilateral testing for both stage I and peripheral nerve evaluation, combined 
stage I/II, and no treatment. Costs were derived from a societal perspective 
using Medicare physician fee schedules and published studies. Quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) were assigned using utility values. Results were reported 
using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. Model robustness was assessed using 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis. Monte Carlo analysis sampled statistical 
distributions for each variable to examine the effects of varying all values 
simultaneously.
RESULTS: No InterStim treatment was the least expensive but also the least 
effective option. Unilateral and bilateral stage I were the only cost-effective 
options with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of $3533 and $7600, 
respectively. Because bilateral stage I was more effective, it is preferred. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed bilateral stage I was most likely to 
be cost-effective at willingness-to-pay thresholds greater than $6000 per QALY. 
At lower thresholds, no treatment was more economically acceptable.
CONCLUSIONS: Bilateral and unilateral stage I lead placement were the only 
cost-effective strategies. Bilateral stage I was preferred due to greater 
effectiveness. In probabilistic sensitivity analysis, bilateral stage I was the 
most likely cost-effective strategy at all willingness-to-pay thresholds greater 
than $6000 per QALY confirming model robustness.

DOI: 10.1097/SPV.0b013e3182a5deb4
PMID: 24165444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Cardiovasc Diabetol. 2013 Oct 28;12:156. doi: 10.1186/1475-2840-12-156.

Type 1 diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

Schnell O(1), Cappuccio F, Genovese S, Standl E, Valensi P, Ceriello A.

Author information:
(1)Forschergruppe Diabetes e,V,, Helmholtz Center Munich, Ingolstaedter 
Landstrasse 1, 85764 Munich-Neuherberg, Germany. 
Oliver.Schnell@lrz.uni-muenchen.de.

The presence of cardiovascular disease (CVD) in Type 1 diabetes largely impairs 
life expectancy. Hyperglycemia leading to an increase in oxidative stress is 
considered to be the key pathophysiological factor of both micro- and 
macrovascular complications. In Type 1 diabetes, the presence of coronary 
calcifications is also related to coronary artery disease. Cardiac autonomic 
neuropathy, which significantly impairs myocardial function and blood flow, also 
enhances cardiac abnormalities. Also hypoglycemic episodes are considered to 
adversely influence cardiac performance. Intensive insulin therapy has been 
demonstrated to reduce the occurrence and progression of both micro- and 
macrovascular complications. This has been evidenced by the Diabetes Control and 
Complications Trial (DCCT) / Epidemiology of Diabetes Interventions and 
Complications (EDIC) study. The concept of a metabolic memory emerged based on 
the results of the study, which established that intensified insulin therapy is 
the standard of treatment of Type 1 diabetes. Future therapies may also include 
glucagon-like peptide (GLP)-based treatment therapies. Pilot studies with 
GLP-1-analogues have been shown to reduce insulin requirements.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2840-12-156
PMCID: PMC3816572
PMID: 24165454 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. Clin Exp Nephrol. 2014 Apr;18(2):274-7. doi: 10.1007/s10157-013-0888-3. Epub
 2013 Oct 29.

Results of the 4D study: ten years of follow-up?

Wanner C(1), Schmidt KR, Krane V.

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, University Hospital of 
Würzburg and the Comprehensive Heart failure Center, Oberdürrbacherstr. 2, 
97080, Würzburg, Germany, wanner_c@medizin.uni-wuerzburg.de.

Despite the exceedingly high cardiovascular risk in hemodialysis patients, it is 
uncertain whether statin regimens lead to clinical benefit in this population. 
KDIGO (Kidney Disease Improving Global Outcomes) guidelines summarize the 
evidence, stating that initiation of statin treatment is not recommended for 
most prevalent hemodialysis patients. Since the 4D and AURORA trials did not 
cover all age and risk ranges, an individualized treatment approach is accepted. 
Thus, patients and physicians may reasonably choose statin treatment if they are 
interested in an apparent, but relatively small, uncertain reduction in 
