
Ameringer S(1), Elswick RK Jr, Smith W.

Author information:
(1)1Virginia Commonwealth University, Richmond, VA, USA.

This descriptive, correlational study examined fatigue and potential biological 
and behavioral correlates in adolescents and young adults with sickle cell 
disease. Sixty adolescents and young adults with sickle cell disease completed 
the Brief Fatigue Inventory, Multidimensional Fatigue Symptom Inventory-Short 
Form, Patient Reported Outcomes Measurement Information System (PROMIS) fatigue 
short form and measures of pain, sleep quality, anxiety, depressive mood, 
stress, disease severity, and quality of life. Blood samples were obtained for 
hemoglobin and cytokines. Fatigue scores were mostly moderate in severity. 
Fatigue interfered to a moderate degree with daily activities and correlated 
significantly with pain, sleep quality, state and trait anxiety, depressive 
mood, stress, and quality of life. Fatigue was correlated with hemoglobin on the 
PROMIS measure. Fatigue was not correlated with cytokines or age, nor differed 
by disease severity. Fatigue was common in these adolescents and young adults, 
interfered with daily activities such as school, work and exercise, and 
significantly correlated with several potentially modifiable factors. As life 
expectancy increases in sickle cell disease, research is needed to test 
interventions to reduce fatigue.

DOI: 10.1177/1043454213514632
PMCID: PMC3982311
PMID: 24378816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. JAMA Intern Med. 2014 Mar;174(3):417-24. doi:
10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.13639.

Development and evaluation of a decision aid on mammography screening for women 
75 years and older.

Schonberg MA(1), Hamel MB(1), Davis RB(1), Griggs MC(1), Wee CC(1), Fagerlin 
A(2), Marcantonio ER(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, and Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(2)Center for Bioethics and Social Sciences in Medicine, Departments of Internal 
Medicine and Psychology, University of Michigan, and Veterans Affairs Ann Arbor 
Center for Clinical Management Research, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

IMPORTANCE: Guidelines recommend that women 75 years and older should be 
informed of the benefits and risks of mammography before being screened. 
However, few are adequately informed.
OBJECTIVES: To develop and evaluate a mammography screening decision aid (DA) 
for women 75 years and older.
DESIGN: We designed the DA using international standards. Between July 14, 2010, 
and April 10, 2012, participants completed a pretest survey and read the DA 
before an appointment with their primary care physician. They completed a 
posttest survey after their appointment. Medical records were reviewed for 
follow-up information.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Boston, Massachusetts, academic primary care practice. 
Eligible women were aged 75 to 89 years, English speaking, had not had a 
mammogram in 9 months but had been screened within the past 3 years, and did not 
have a history of dementia or invasive or noninvasive breast cancer. Of 84 women 
approached, 27 declined to participate, 12 were unable to complete the study for 
logistical reasons, and 45 participated.
INTERVENTIONS: The DA includes information on breast cancer risk, life 
expectancy, competing mortality risks, possible outcomes of screening, and a 
values clarification exercise.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Knowledge of the benefits and risks of screening, 
decisional conflict, and screening intentions; documentation in the medical 
record of a discussion of the risks and benefits of mammography with a primary 
care physician within 6 months; and the receipt of screening within 15 months. 
We used the Wilcoxon signed rank test and McNemar test to compare 
pretest-posttest information.
RESULTS: The median age of participants was 79 years, 69% (31 of 45) were of 
non-Hispanic white race/ethnicity, and 60% (27 of 45) had attended at least some 
college. Comparison of posttest results with pretest results demonstrated 2 
findings. First, knowledge of the benefits and risks of screening improved (P 
< .001). Second, fewer participants intended to be screened (56% [25 of 45] 
afterward compared with 82% [37 of 45] before, P = .03). Decisional conflict 
declined but not significantly (P = .10). In the following 6 months, 53% (24 of 
45) of participants had a primary care physician note that documented the 
discussion of the risks and benefits of screening compared with 11% (5 of 45) in 
the previous 5 years (P < .001). While 84% (36 of 43) had been screened within 2 
years of participating, 60% (26 of 43) were screened within 15 months after 
participating (≥ 2 years since their last mammogram) (P = .01). Overall, 93% (42 
of 45) found the DA helpful.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: A DA may improve older women's decision making about 
mammography screening.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.13639
PMCID: PMC4017368
PMID: 24378846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: We have no conflicts of interest to report.


931. Ann Intern Med. 2014 Mar 4;160(5):330-8. doi: 10.7326/M13-2771.

Screening for lung cancer: U.S. Preventive Services Task Force recommendation 
statement.

Moyer VA; U.S. Preventive Services Task Force.

Collaborators: Moyer VA, LeFevre ML, Siu AL, Peters JJ, Baumann LC, 
Bibbins-Domingo K, Curry SJ, Ebell M, Flores G, García FA, Cantu AG, Grossman 
DC, Herzstein J, Nicholson WK, Owens DK, Phillips WR, Pignone MP.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2014 Mar 4;160(5):363-4.

Summary for patients in
    Ann Intern Med. 2014 Mar 4;160(5):I-40.

DESCRIPTION: Update of the 2004 U.S. Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) 
recommendation on screening for lung cancer.
METHODS: The USPSTF reviewed the evidence on the efficacy of low-dose computed 
tomography, chest radiography, and sputum cytologic evaluation for lung cancer 
screening in asymptomatic persons who are at average or high risk for lung 
cancer (current or former smokers) and the benefits and harms of these screening 
tests and of surgical resection of early-stage non-small cell lung cancer. The 
USPSTF also commissioned modeling studies to provide information about the 
optimum age at which to begin and end screening, the optimum screening interval, 
and the relative benefits and harms of different screening strategies.
POPULATION: This recommendation applies to asymptomatic adults aged 55 to 80 
years who have a 30 pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit 
within the past 15 years.
RECOMMENDATION: The USPSTF recommends annual screening for lung cancer with 
low-dose computed tomography in adults aged 55 to 80 years who have a 30 
pack-year smoking history and currently smoke or have quit within the past 15 
years. Screening should be discontinued once a person has not smoked for 15 
years or develops a health problem that substantially limits life expectancy or 
the ability or willingness to have curative lung surgery. (B recommendation).

DOI: 10.7326/M13-2771
PMID: 24378917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. J Hypertens. 2014 Mar;32(3):681-92. doi: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000000071.

Cost-effectiveness of Barostim therapy for the treatment of resistant 
hypertension in European settings.

Borisenko O(1), Beige J, Lovett EG, Hoppe UC, Bjessmo S.

Author information:
(1)aSynergus AB, Stockholm, Sweden bDepartment of Nephrology, Kuratorium for 
Dialysis and Transplantation (KfH), Hospital St Georg, Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany 
cCVRx Inc., Minneapolis, Minnesota, USA dDepartment of Internal Medicine II, 
Paracelsus Medical University Salzburg, Salzburg, Austria eSynergus AB and 
Department of Learning, Informatics, Management and Ethics, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to simulate the cost-effectiveness and 
the long-term clinical performance of the Barostim neo System for the treatment 
of resistant hypertension when compared to optimal medical treatment.
METHODS: A decision analytic model with a combination of a decision tree and 
Markov process was used to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of Barostim. The 
clinical effectiveness of Barostim was based on the results of the randomized, 
placebo-controlled Rheos trial and the follow-up substudy of the DEBuT-HT trial. 
The cost-effectiveness was modelled from a German societal perspective over a 
lifetime horizon. Patients with high SBP levels have an increased risk of 
myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure and end-stage renal disease.
RESULTS: In a simulated cohort of 50-year-old patients at high risk of end-organ 
damage, Barostim therapy generated 1.66 additional life-years and 2.17 
additional quality-adjusted life years with an incremental cost of 
&OV0556;16 891 when compared with continuation of medical management. Barostim 
was estimated to be cost-effective compared with optimal medical treatment with 
an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of &OV0556;7 797/QALY. In the model, 
Barostim reduced over a lifetime the rates of myocardial infarction by 19%, 
stroke by 35%, heart failure by 12% and end-stage renal disease by 23%. The 
cost-effectiveness of Barostim can be greater in younger patients with resistant 
hypertension and in patients with significant risk factors for end-organ damage.
CONCLUSION: Barostim may be a cost-effective treatment when compared with 
optimal medical management in patients with resistant hypertension.

DOI: 10.1097/HJH.0000000000000071
PMID: 24378998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Nutrients. 2013 Dec 27;6(1):163-89. doi: 10.3390/nu6010163.

A multicountry ecological study of cancer incidence rates in 2008 with respect 
to various risk-modifying factors.

Grant WB(1).

Author information:
(1)Sunlight, Nutrition, and Health Research Center, P.O. Box 641603, San 
Francisco, CA 94164-1603, USA. wbgrant@infionline.net.

Observational and ecological studies are generally used to determine the 
presence of effect of cancer risk-modifying factors. Researchers generally agree 
that environmental factors such as smoking, alcohol consumption, poor diet, lack 
of physical activity, and low serum 25-hdyroxyvitamin D levels are important 
cancer risk factors. This ecological study used age-adjusted incidence rates for 
21 cancers for 157 countries (87 with high-quality data) in 2008 with respect to 
dietary supply and other factors, including per capita gross domestic product, 
life expectancy, lung cancer incidence rate (an index for smoking), and latitude 
(an index for solar ultraviolet-B doses). The factors found to correlate 
strongly with multiple types of cancer were lung cancer (direct correlation with 
12 types of cancer), energy derived from animal products (direct correlation 
with 12 types of cancer, inverse with two), latitude (direct correlation with 
six types, inverse correlation with three), and per capita gross national 
product (five types). Life expectancy and sweeteners directly correlated with 
three cancers, animal fat with two, and alcohol with one. Consumption of animal 
products correlated with cancer incidence with a lag time of 15-25 years. Types 
of cancer which correlated strongly with animal product consumption, tended to 
correlate weakly with latitude; this occurred for 11 cancers for the entire set 
of countries. Regression results were somewhat different for the 87 high-quality 
country data set and the 157-country set. Single-country ecological studies have 
inversely correlated nearly all of these cancers with solar ultraviolet-B doses. 
These results can provide guidance for prevention of cancer.

DOI: 10.3390/nu6010163
PMCID: PMC3916854
PMID: 24379012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Dec 14;19(46):8611-8. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v19.i46.8611.

Prognosis of patients with gastric cancer and solitary lymph node metastasis.

Chen CQ(1), Wu XJ(1), Yu Z(1), Bu ZD(1), Zuo KQ(1), Li ZY(1), Ji JF(1).

Author information:
(1)Chun-Qiu Chen, Zhen Yu, Ke-Qiang Zuo, Department of General Surgery, Tenth 
People's Hospital of Shanghai, Tongji University, School of Medicine, Shanghai 
200072, China.

AIM: To investigate the relationship of solitary lymph node metastasis (SLNM) 
and age with patient survival in gastric cancer (GC).
METHODS: The medical records databases of China's Beijing Cancer Hospital at the 
Peking University School of Oncology and Shanghai Tenth People's Hospital 
affiliated to Tongji University were searched retrospectively to identify 
patients with histologically proven GC and SLNM who underwent surgical resection 
between October 2003 and December 2012. Patients with distant metastasis or 
gastric stump carcinoma following resection for benign disease were excluded 
from the analysis. In total, 936 patients with GC + SLNM were selected for 
analysis and the recorded parameters of clinicopathological disease and 
follow-up (range: 13-2925 d) were collected. The Kaplan-Meier method was used to 
stratify patients by age (≤ 50 years-old, n = 198; 50-64 years-old, n = 321; ≥ 
65 years-old, n = 446) and by metastatic lymph node ratio [MLR < 0.04 (1/25), n 
= 180; 0.04-0.06 (1/25-1/15), n = 687; ≥ 0.06 (1/15), n = 98] for 5-year 
survival analysis. The significance of intergroup differences between the 
survival curves was assessed by a log-rank test.
RESULTS: The 5-year survival rate of the entire GC + SLNM patient population was 
49.9%. Stratification analysis showed significant differences in survival time 
(post-operative days) according to age: ≤ 50 years-old: 950.7 ± 79.0 vs 50-64 
years-old: 1697.8 ± 65.9 vs ≥ 65 years-old: 1996.2 ± 57.6, all P < 0.05. In 
addition, younger age (≤ 50 years-old) correlated significantly with mean 
survival time (r = 0.367, P < 0.001). Stratification analysis also indicated an 
inverse relationship between increasing MLR and shorter survival time: < 0.04: 
52.8% and 0.04-0.06: 51.1% vs ≥ 0.06: 40.5%, P < 0.05. The patients with the 
shortest survival times and rates were younger and had a high MLR (≥ 0.06): ≤ 50 
years-old: 496.4 ± 133.0 and 0.0% vs 50-65 years-old: 1180.9 ± 201.8 and 21.4% 
vs ≥ 65 years-old: 1538.4 ± 72.4 and 37.3%, all P < 0.05. The same significant 
trend in shorter survival times and rates for younger patients was seen with the 
mid-range MLR group (0.04-0.06), but the difference between the two older groups 
was not significant. No significant differences were found between the age 
groups of patients with MLR < 0.04. Assessment of clinicopathological parameters 
identified age group, Borrmann type, histological type and tumor depth as the 
most important predictors of the survival rates and times observed for this 
study population.
CONCLUSION: GC patients below 51 years of age with MLR of SLNM above 0.06 have 
shorter life expectancy than their older counterparts.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i46.8611
PMCID: PMC3870506
PMID: 24379578 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. World J Gastroenterol. 2013 Dec 21;19(47):9012-9. doi:
10.3748/wjg.v19.i47.9012.

Clinically detected gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine tumors are on the 
rise: epidemiological changes in Germany.

Scherübl H(1), Streller B(1), Stabenow R(1), Herbst H(1), Höpfner M(1), 
Schwertner C(1), Steinberg J(1), Eick J(1), Ring W(1), Tiwari K(1), Zappe SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Hans Scherübl, Christoph Schwertner, Joachim Steinberg, Jan Eick, Wanda Ring, 
Krishna Tiwari, Klinik für Gastroenterologie, GI Onkologie und Infektiologie, 
Vivantes Klinikum Am Urban, 10967 Berlin, Germany.

AIM: To study the epidemiologic changes of gastroenteropancreatic neuroendocrine 
tumors (GEP-NET) in Germany, we analyzed two time periods 1976-1988 and 
1998-2006.
METHODS: We evaluated epidemiological data of GEP-NET from the former East 
German National Cancer Registry (DDR Krebsregister, 1976-1988) and its 
successor, the Joint Cancer Registry (GKR, 1998-2006), which was founded after 
German reunification. Due to a particularly substantial database the 
epidemiological data from the federal states of Mecklenburg-Western Pomerania, 
Saxony, Brandenburg and Thuringia, covering a population of more than 10.8 
million people, were analyzed. Survival probabilities were calculated using life 
table analysis. In addition, GEP-NET patients were evaluated for one or more 
second (non-GEP-NET) primary malignancies.
RESULTS: A total of 2821 GEP neuroendocrine neoplasms were identified in the two 
registries. The overall incidence increased significantly between 1976 and 2006 
from 0.31 (per 100.000 inhabitants per year) to 2.27 for men and from 0.57 to 
2.38 for women. In the later period studied (2004-2006), the small intestine was 
the most common site. Neuroendocrine (NE) neoplasms of the small intestine 
showed the largest absolute increase in incidence, while rectal NE neoplasms 
exhibited the greatest relative increase. Only the incidence of appendiceal NET 
in women showed little change between 1976 and 2006. Overall survival of 
patients varied for sex, tumor site and the two periods studied but improved 
significantly over time. Interestingly, about 20% of the GEP-NET patients 
developed one or more second malignancies. Their most common location was the 
gastrointestinal tract. GEP-NET patients without second malignancies fared 
better than those with one or more of them.
CONCLUSION: The number of detected GEP-NET increased about 5-fold in Germany 
between 1976 and 2006. At the same time, their anatomic distribution changed, 
and the survival of GEP-NET patients improved significantly. Second malignancies 
are common and influence the overall survival of GEP-NET patients. Thus, GEP-NET 
warrant our attention as well as intensive research on their tumorigenesis.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v19.i47.9012
PMCID: PMC3870554
PMID: 24379626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. J Palliat Care. 2013 Autumn;29(3):140-6.

External validation of a web-based prognostic tool for predicting survival for 
patients in hospice care.

Miladinovic B(1), Mhaskar R(2), Kumar A(2), Kim S(3), Schonwetter R(3), 
Djulbegovic B(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Evidence-Based Medicine and Health Outcomes Research, Morsani 
College of Medicine, University of South Florida, 3515 E. Fletcher Avenue, 
MDT1200, Mail Code MDC27, Tampa, Florida 33612, USA. bmiladin@health.usf.edu
(2)Center for Evidence-Based Medicine and Health Outcomes Research, University 
of South Florida, Tampa, Florida, USA.
(3)HPC Healthcare, Temple Terrace, Florida, USA.

Prognostat is an interactive Web-based prognostic tool for estimating hospice 
patient survival based on a patient's Palliative Performance Scale (PPS) score, 
age, gender, and cancer status. The tool was developed using data from 5,893 
palliative care patients, which was collected at the Victoria Hospice in 
Victoria, British Columbia, Canada, beginning in 1994. This study externally 
validates Prognostat with a retrospective cohort of 590 hospice patients at 
LifePath Hospice and Palliative Care in Florida, USA. The criteria used to 
evaluate the prognostic performance were the Brier score, area under the 
receiver operating curve, discrimination slope, and Hosmer-Lemeshow 
goodness-of-fit test. Though the Kaplan-Meier curves show each PPS level to be 
distinct and significantly different, the findings reveal low agreement between 
observed survival in our cohort of patients and survival predicted by the 
prognostic tool. Before developing a new prognostic model, researchers are 
encouraged to update survival estimates obtained using Prognostat with the 
information from their cohort of patients. If it is to be useful to patients and 
clinicians, Prognostat needs to explicitly report patient risk scores and 
estimates of baseline survival.

PMID: 24380212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. J Palliat Med. 2014 Apr;17(4):469-71. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2013.0263. Epub 2013
Dec  31.

Palliative care answers the challenges of transitioning serious illness of 
childhood to adult medicine.

Ajayi TA(1), Edmonds KP.

Author information:
(1)1 Division of Pediatrics and Hospital Medicine, Rady Children's Hospital and 
Division of Palliative Medicine, Scripps Health, San Diego, California.

Advances in the field of medicine have improved the overall life expectancy in 
children. Consequently, many children with previously lethal diseases now live 
into adulthood. There is an urgent need to develop approaches that assist with 
the transition of care from pediatrics to adult medicine. Palliative care, by 
virtue of its unique skills, is ideally positioned to play a part in this 
transition. This report will summarize the urgency for proper transition 
modalities and then introduce palliative care as a proposed solution for current 
challenges in transition. Along the way, it will touch on financial and 
workforce obstacles to this solution and will offer a potential funding option.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2013.0263
PMID: 24380449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2014 Mar;7(3):341-50. doi: 
10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-13-0191-T. Epub 2013 Dec 31.

Statins and aspirin for chemoprevention in Barrett's esophagus: results of a 
cost-effectiveness analysis.

Choi SE(1), Perzan KE, Tramontano AC, Kong CY, Hur C.

Author information:
(1)Massachusetts General Hospital, 101 Merrimac Street, 10th Floor, Boston, MA 
02114. chur@partners.org.

Data suggest that aspirin, statins, or a combination of the two drugs may lower 
the progression of Barrett's esophagus to esophageal adenocarcinoma. However, 
aspirin is associated with potential complications such as gastrointestinal 
bleeding and hemorrhagic stroke, and statins are associated with myopathy. We 
developed a simulation disease model to study the effectiveness and cost 
effectiveness of aspirin and statin chemoprevention against esophageal 
adenocarcinoma. A decision analytic Markov model was constructed to compare four 
strategies for Barrett's esophagus management; all regimens included standard 
endoscopic surveillance regimens: (i) endoscopic surveillance alone, (ii) 
aspirin therapy, (iii) statin therapy, and (iv) combination therapy of aspirin 
and statin. Endpoints evaluated were life expectancy, quality-adjusted life 
years (QALY), costs, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER). 
Sensitivity analysis was performed to determine the impact of model input 
uncertainty on results. Assuming an annual progression rate of 0.33% per year 
from Barrett's esophagus to esophageal adenocarcinoma, aspirin therapy was more 
effective and cost less than (dominated) endoscopic surveillance alone. When 
combination therapy was compared with aspirin therapy, the ICER was 
$158,000/QALY, which was above our willingness-to-pay threshold of 
$100,000/QALY. Statin therapy was dominated by combination therapy. When higher 
annual cancer progression rates were assumed in the model (0.5% per year), 
combination therapy was cost-effective compared with aspirin therapy, producing 
an ICER of $96,000/QALY. In conclusion, aspirin chemoprevention was both more 
effective and cost less than endoscopic surveillance alone. Combination therapy 
using both aspirin and statin is expensive but could be cost-effective in 
patients at higher risk of progression to esophageal adenocarcinoma.

DOI: 10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-13-0191-T
PMCID: PMC3951678
PMID: 24380852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Rep Pract Oncol Radiother. 2012 Aug 10;18(1):16-25. doi: 
10.1016/j.rpor.2012.07.014.

Squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck in the elderly.

Gugić J(1), Strojan P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Institute of Oncology Ljubljana, Zaloška 2, 
SI-1000 Ljubljana, Slovenia.

The incidence of head and neck squamous cell carcinoma (HNSCC) peaks between the 
fifth and seventh decades of life. With prolongation of life expectancy, 
however, the proportion of elderly HNSCC patients is also increasing, which 
makes HNSCC in this life period an important issue for healthcare providers. 
With features characteristic to the older patient groups coupled with the 
inherent complexity of the disease, HNSCC in the elderly represents a 
considerable challenge to clinicians. Indeed, to expedite the progress and 
improve the healthcare system to meet the needs of this unique population of 
patients, several essential issues related to the clinical profile, diagnostics, 
optimal treatment and support are of concern and should be addressed in properly 
conducted clinical trials. In the present review, we analyzed a literature 
series comparing different age groups with regard to their clinical 
characteristics, therapy, outcome and quality of life in an attempt to determine 
their implications on treatment-decision-making for elderly patients with HNSCC.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rpor.2012.07.014
PMCID: PMC3863160
PMID: 24381743


940. JAMA. 2014 Jan 1;311(1):17-8. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.284509.

Physicians focus on primary care for patients with HIV.

Kuehn BM.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.284509
PMID: 24381955 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2013;157(52):A6507.

[How much should a gained life-year cost? Study on the assessment of a QALY].

[Article in Dutch]

van Gils PF(1), Schoemaker CG, Polder JJ.

Author information:
(1)Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu.

Increasing healthcare costs force policy makers to make difficult choices in the 
insurance package. In order to make rational choices, there must be an 
understanding of the healthcare costs as well as the value of the health that 
the care provides. Health economists have in recent years carried out extensive 
research into the value that people attribute to health. Health is of great 
social value, and is difficult to express in concrete monetary terms. One extra 
life-year in good health ('quality-adjusted life year', QALY) seems to be valued 
on average at no less than 50,000 euros by people. Methodology needs to be 
developed in this area so that study results are more uniform and can be better 
compared. Physicians and policy makers will thus gain more insight into the 
value of health.

PMID: 24382034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. N Engl J Med. 2014 Jan 2;370(1):60-8. doi: 10.1056/NEJMra1308383.

Global effects of smoking, of quitting, and of taxing tobacco.

Jha P(1), Peto R.

Author information:
(1)From the Center for Global Health Research, St. Michael's Hospital and Dalla 
Lana School of Public Health, University of Toronto, Toronto (P.J.); and the 
Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit, Nuffield 
Department of Population Health, Richard Doll Building, University of Oxford, 
Oxford, United Kingdom (R.P.).

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2014 Jul;66(1):176-8.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMra1308383
PMID: 24382066 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Croat Med J. 2013 Dec;54(6):574-8. doi: 10.3325/cmj.2013.54.574.

A lethal course of hypertrophic cardiomyopathy in Noonan syndrome due to a novel 
germline mutation in the KRAS gene: case study.

Nosan G, Bertok S, Vesel S, Yntema HG, Paro-Panjan D(1).

Author information:
(1)Darja Paro-Panjan, Department of Neonatology, Division of Pediatrics, 
University Medical Centre Ljubljana, Bohoriceva ulica 20, 1000 Ljubljana, 
Slovenia, darja.paro@kclj.si.

Comment in
    Croat Med J. 2013 Dec;54(6):507-9.

Noonan syndrome is a relatively common and heterogeneous genetic disorder, 
including congenital heart defect in more than half of the cases. If the defect 
is not large, life expectancy is normal. Here we report on a case of an infant 
with Noonan syndrome and rapidly progressive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy with 
lethal outcome, in whom we identified a novel mutation in the KRAS gene. This 
heterozygous unclassified missense variant in exon 3: c.179G> T (p.Gly60Val) 
might be associated with a lethal form of Noonan syndrome. The malignant 
clinical course of the disease and the lethal outcome in an infant only a few 
months old might be connected to RAS-mitogen-activated protein kinase pathway 
hyperactivation, consequently promoting cell growth and proliferation, leading 
to rapidly progressive hypertrophic cardiomyopathy. Further biochemical and 
functional studies are needed to confirm this hypothesis.

DOI: 10.3325/cmj.2013.54.574
PMCID: PMC3893993
PMID: 24382853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. Case Rep Med. 2013;2013:523237. doi: 10.1155/2013/523237. Epub 2013 Dec 8.

Anaplastic carcinoma of the pancreas mimicking submucosal gastric tumor: a case 
report of a rare tumor.

Fujiogi M(1), Kobayashi T(1), Yasuno M(1), Tanaka M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Tokyo Metropolitan Hiroo Hospital, 2-34-10 Ebisu, 
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150-0013, Japan.
(2)Department of Pathology, Tokyo Metropolitan Hiroo Hospital, 2-34-10 Ebisu, 
Shibuya-ku, Tokyo 150-0013, Japan.

Anaplastic carcinoma of the pancreas (ACP) is a rare neoplasm of the pancreas. 
ACPs are aggressive neoplasms with a poorer prognosis than poorly differentiated 
ductal adenocarcinomas of the pancreas. The 3-year survival rate of patients 
with ACP is less than 3%, with a life expectancy of 10 to 20 months. We describe 
here a 64-year-old man with ACP mimicking a submucosal gastric tumor. The 
patient was found to have a giant mass mimicking a submucosal tumor. Total 
gastrectomy with splenectomy and partial resection of the tail of the pancreas 
were performed. The pathological diagnosis was ACP, with immunohistological 
findings showing pleomorphic-type ACP. Because the surgery was noncurative, the 
patient received adjuvant chemotherapy with paclitaxel but died of peritoneal 
dissemination and multiple liver metastases 4 months after surgery.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/523237
PMCID: PMC3870639
PMID: 24382965


945. Surgery. 2013 Dec;154(6):1148-55; discussion 1154-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.surg.2013.06.016.

Routine prophylactic central neck dissection for low-risk papillary thyroid 
cancer: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Zanocco K, Elaraj D, Sturgeon C.

Comment in
    Surgery. 2013 Dec;154(6):1146-7.

BACKGROUND: Routine prophylactic central neck dissection (pCND) after total 
thyroidectomy (TTX) for low-risk papillary thyroid cancer (PTC) offers the 
potential to decrease disease recurrence but may increase operative 
complications. We hypothesized that routine pCND is not cost-effective in 
low-risk PTC.
METHODS: A Markov transition-state model was constructed to compare TTX with and 
without pCND. Outcome probabilities, utilities, and costs were estimated on the 
basis of literature review. The threshold for cost-effectiveness was $100,000 
per quality-adjusted life year. Sensitivity analysis was used to examine model 
uncertainty.
RESULTS: pCND cost $10,315 and produced an effectiveness of 23.785 
quality-adjusted life years. This strategy was more costly and less effective 
than TTX without pCND and was therefore dominated. pCND became cost-effective 
when the probability of recurrence increased from 6% to 10.3%, cost of 
reoperation for recurrence increased from $8,900 to $26,120, or added 
probabilities of recurrent laryngeal nerve injury and hypoparathyroidism due to 
pCND were less than 0.20% and 0.18% during 2-way sensitivity analysis. Monte 
Carlo simulation showed that pCND was not cost-effective in 97.3% of iterations.
CONCLUSION: Routine pCND for low-risk PTC is not cost-effective unless the 
recurrence rate is greater than 10.3%. Application of pCND should be 
individualized based on risk of recurrence and added complications.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2013.06.016
PMID: 24383082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Community Pract. 2013 Dec;86(12):4.

WHO review warns of 'public health time bomb'.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 24383159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. BMC Public Health. 2014 Jan 2;14:1. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-1.

A review of life expectancy and infant mortality estimations for Australian 
Aboriginal people.

Phillips B, Morrell S, Taylor R(1), Daniels J.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, Australia. r.taylor@unsw.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Significant variation exists in published Aboriginal mortality and 
life expectancy (LE) estimates due to differing and evolving methodologies 
required to correct for inadequate recording of Aboriginality in death data, 
under-counting of Aboriginal people in population censuses, and unexplained 
growth in the Aboriginal population attributed to changes in the propensity of 
individuals to identify as Aboriginal at population censuses. The objective of 
this paper is to analyse variation in reported Australian Aboriginal mortality 
in terms of LE and infant mortality rates (IMR), compared with all Australians.
METHODS: Published data for Aboriginal LE and IMR were obtained and analysed for 
data quality and method of estimation. Trends in reported LE and IMR estimates 
were assessed and compared with those in the entire Australian population.
RESULTS: LE estimates derived from different methodologies vary by as much as 
7.2 years for the same comparison period. Indirect methods for estimating 
Aboriginal LE have produced LE estimates sensitive to small changes in 
underlying assumptions, some of which are subject to circular reasoning. Most 
indirect methods appear to under-estimate Aboriginal LE. Estimated LE gaps 
between Aboriginal people and the overall Australian population have varied 
between 11 and 20 years. Latest mortality estimates, based on linking census and 
death data, are likely to over-estimate Aboriginal LE. Temporal LE changes by 
each methodology indicate that Aboriginal LE has improved at rates similar to 
the Australian population overall. Consequently the gap in LE between Aboriginal 
people and the total Australian population appears to be unchanged since the 
early 1980s, and at the end of the first decade of the 21st century remains at 
least 11-12 years. In contrast, focussing on the 1990-2010 period Aboriginal IMR 
declined steeply over 2001-08, from more than 12 to around 8 deaths per 1,000 
live births, the same level as Australia overall in 1993-95. The IMR gap between 
Aboriginal people and the total Australian population, while still unacceptable, 
has declined considerably, from over 8 before 2000 to around 4 per 1,000 live 
births by 2008.
CONCLUSIONS: Regardless of estimation method used, mortality and LE gaps between 
Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal people are substantial, but remain difficult to 
estimate accurately.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-1
PMCID: PMC3893414
PMID: 24383435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Intern Med J. 2014 Jan;44(1):65-9. doi: 10.1111/imj.12319.

Increased cardiovascular risk in patients with severe mental illness.

Gladigau EL(1), Fazio TN, Hannam JP, Dawson LM, Jones SG.

Author information:
(1)General Practice Registrar, Westcare Medical Centre, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: People with severe mental illness (SMI) have a reduced life 
expectancy. A major cause of mortality is cardiovascular disease.
AIMS: The aims of this study were to document the prevalence of cardiovascular 
risk factors in people with SMI engaged in community psychiatric rehabilitation 
and compare prevalence rates to the general, and Aboriginal and Torres Strait 
Islander (ATSI) populations of Australia.
METHOD: A cross-sectional audit was conducted on patients receiving care from 
Melbourne's Inner-West Area Mental Health Service. Profiles were collected on: 
smoking status, body mass index, waist circumference, blood pressure, diabetic 
status and fasting lipid profiles. These were compared with the general and ATSI 
Australian populations.
RESULTS: Complete data were available for 60 patients. Most were involuntary 
patients with a diagnosis of schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder. Patients 
were more likely to smoke, be obese, have dyslipidaemia and the metabolic 
syndrome compared with the general and ATSI populations of Australia. Patients 
were more likely to have diabetes than the general population but had similar 
rates to the ATSI population. Patients had similar rates of hypertension to the 
general population but were less likely to be hypertensive compared with the 
ATSI population.
CONCLUSION: Australians living with SMI have very high rates of cardiovascular 
risk factors, far in excess of the general Australian population and comparable 
with the ATSI population.

© 2013 The Authors; Internal Medicine Journal © 2013 Royal Australasian College 
of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/imj.12319
PMID: 24383746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Qual Life Res. 2014 Aug;23(6):1721-31. doi: 10.1007/s11136-013-0615-2. Epub
2014  Jan 3.

Anchoring vignettes for health comparisons: an analysis of response consistency.

Au N(1), Lorgelly PK.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Building 75, Clayton, VIC, 
3800, Australia, nicole.au@monash.edu.

PURPOSE: Self-rated health (SRH) is widely used to measure and compare the 
health status of different groups of individuals. However, SRH can suffer from 
heterogeneity in reporting styles, making health comparisons problematic. 
Anchoring vignettes is a promising technique for improving inter-group 
comparisons of SRH. A key identifying assumption of the approach is response 
consistency-that respondents rate themselves using the same underlying response 
scale that they rate the vignettes. Despite growing research into response 
consistency, it remains unclear how respondents rate vignettes and why 
respondents may not assess vignettes and themselves consistently.
METHOD: Vignettes for the EQ-5D-5L were developed and included in an online 
survey. In-depth interviews were conducted with participants following survey 
completion. Response consistency was examined through qualitative analysis of 
the interview responses and quantitative coding of participants' thought 
processes.
RESULTS: Our analysis showed that anchoring vignettes for the EQ-5D-5L is 
feasible, but that response consistency may not hold for some participants. 
Respondents are more likely to rate their own health and vignettes in the same 
way if presented with overall health state vignettes than single health 
dimension vignettes, and if they imagined themselves in the health state of the 
hypothetical individual.
CONCLUSION: This research highlights opportunities to improve the design of 
anchoring vignettes in order to enhance response consistency. It additionally 
provides new evidence on the feasibility of employing anchoring vignettes for 
the EQ-5D-5L, which is promising for future work to address reporting 
heterogeneity in the EQ-5D-5L.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-013-0615-2
PMID: 24384738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2014 Apr;472(4):1069-79. doi:
10.1007/s11999-013-3440-6.  Epub 2014 Jan 3.

How does accounting for worker productivity affect the measured 
cost-effectiveness of lumbar discectomy?

Koenig L(1), Dall TM, Gu Q, Saavoss J, Schafer MF.

Author information:
(1)KNG Health Consulting, LLC, 15245 Shady Grove Road, Suite 305, Rockville, MD, 
20850, USA, Lane.Koenig@knghealth.com.

Comment in
    Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2014 Apr;472(4):1065-8.

BACKGROUND: Back pain attributable to lumbar disc herniation is a substantial 
cause of reduced workplace productivity. Disc herniation surgery is effective in 
reducing pain and improving function. However, few studies have examined the 
effects of surgery on worker productivity.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: We wished to determine the effect of disc herniation surgery 
on workers' earnings and missed workdays and how accounting for this effect 
influences the cost-effectiveness of surgery?
METHODS: Regression models were estimated using data from the National Health 
Interview Survey to assess the effects of lower back pain caused by disc 
herniation on earnings and missed workdays. The results were incorporated into 
Markov models to compare societal costs associated with surgical and nonsurgical 
treatments for privately insured, working patients. Clinical outcomes and 
utilities were based on results from the Spine Patient Outcomes Research Trial 
and additional clinical literature.
RESULTS: We estimate average annual earnings of $47,619 with surgery and $45,694 
with nonsurgical treatment. The increased earnings for patients receiving 
surgery as compared with nonsurgical treatment is equal to $1925 (95% CI, 
$1121-$2728). After surgery, we also estimate that workers receiving surgery 
miss, on average, 3 fewer days per year than if workers had received nonsurgical 
treatment (95% CI, 2.4-3.7 days). However, these fewer missed work days only 
partially offset the assumed 20 workdays missed to recover from surgery. More 
fully accounting for the effects of disc herniation surgery on productivity 
reduced the cost of surgery per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) from $52,416 
to $35,146 using a 4-year time horizon and from $27,359 to $4186 using an 8-year 
time horizon. According to a sensitivity analysis, the 4-year cost per QALY 
varies between $27,921 and $49,787 depending on model assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: Increased worker earnings resulting from disc herniation surgery 
may offset the increased direct medical costs associated with surgery. After 
accounting for the effects on productivity, disc herniation surgery was found to 
be a highly cost-effective surgery and may yield net societal savings if the 
benefits of outpatient and inpatient surgery persist beyond 6 and 12 years, 
respectively.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level II, economic and decision analysis. See the 
Instructions for Authors for a complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-013-3440-6
PMCID: PMC3940738
PMID: 24385039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2014 Apr;12(2):103-15. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-013-0071-8.

Systematic assessment of decision-analytic models for chronic myeloid leukemia.

Rochau U(1), Schwarzer R, Jahn B, Sroczynski G, Kluibenschaedl M, Wolf D, Radich 
J, Brixner D, Gastl G, Siebert U.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Decision Modelling, Health Technology Assessment 
and Health Economics, ONCOTYROL-Center for Personalized Cancer Medicine, 
Innsbruck, Austria, ursula.rochau@umit.at.

BACKGROUND: Several tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) are approved for the 
treatment of chronic myeloid leukemia (CML). Decision-analytic modeling can help 
to extrapolate data from short-term clinical trials and also consider quality of 
life when evaluating different treatment strategies.
OBJECTIVE: Our goal was to describe and analyze the structural and 
methodological approaches of published decision-analytic models for various 
treatment strategies in CML and to derive recommendations for the development of 
future CML models.
DATA SOURCES: We performed a systematic literature search in electronic 
databases (MEDLINE/PreMEDLINE, EconLit, EMBASE, NHS EED, and Tuft's CEA 
Registry) to identify published studies evaluating CML treatment strategies 
using mathematical models. The search was updated in August 2013.
STUDY SELECTION: The models were required to compare different treatment 
strategies in relation to relevant clinical and patient-relevant health outcomes 
[e.g., life-years gained, quality-adjusted life-years] over a defined time 
horizon and population.
STUDY APPRAISAL AND SYNTHESIS METHODS: We used standardized forms for data 
extraction, description of study design, methodological framework, and data 
sources for each model.
RESULTS: We identified 18 different decision-analytic modeling studies. Of 
these, 17 included economic evaluations. Modeling approaches included decision 
trees, Markov cohort models, state-transition models with individual (Monte 
Carlo) simulations, and mathematical equations. Analytic time horizons ranged 
from 2 years to a lifetime. Treatment strategies compared included bone marrow 
or stem cell transplantation, conventional chemotherapy, interferon-α, and TKIs. 
Only one model evaluated a second-generation TKI. Most models did not report a 
model validation. All models conducted deterministic sensitivity analyses and 
four reported a probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
LIMITATIONS: Articles that were not published in English or German were not 
included in this review. Our literature search was restricted to published 
full-text articles in certain databases. Therefore, publications that met our 
inclusion criteria but were published in different databases, different 
languages, or as abstracts only may have been missed.
CONCLUSIONS: While several well-designed models of CML treatment strategies 
exist, there remains a need for the assessment of the long-term efficacy and 
cost effectiveness of novel treatment options such as second-generation TKIs. 
Additionally, these models should be validated using independent data.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-013-0071-8
PMID: 24385259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Stroke. 2014 Feb;45(2):553-62. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.113.003216. Epub 2014
Jan  2.

Cost-effectiveness of optimizing acute stroke care services for thrombolysis.

Penaloza-Ramos MC(1), Sheppard JP, Jowett S, Barton P, Mant J, Quinn T, Mellor 
RM, Sims D, Sandler D, McManus RJ; Birmingham and Black Country Collaborations 
for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care Investigators.

Collaborators: Carr P, Greenfield S, Helliwell B, Nand C, Phillips N, Scott R, 
Singh S, Ward M.

Author information:
(1)From the Health Economics Unit (M.C.P.-R., S.J., P.B.) and Primary Care 
Clinical Sciences (J.P.S., R.M.M.), University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, 
Birmingham, UK; Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of 
Oxford, Oxford, UK (J.P.S., R.J.M.); Primary Care Unit, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge, UK (J.M.); Faculty of Health and Medical Sciences, University of 
Surrey, Guildford, UK (T.Q.); University Hospitals Birmingham NHS Foundation 
Trust, Birmingham, UK (D. Sims); and Heart of England NHS Foundation Trust, 
Birmingham, UK (D. Sandler).

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Thrombolysis in acute stroke is effective up to 4.5 
hours after symptom onset but relies on early recognition, prompt arrival in 
hospital, and timely brain scanning. This study aimed to establish the 
cost-effectiveness of increasing thrombolysis rates through a series of 
hypothetical change strategies designed to optimize the acute care pathway for 
stroke.
METHODS: A decision-tree model was constructed, which relates the acute 
management of patients with suspected stroke from symptom onset to outcome. 
Current practice was modeled and compared with 7 change strategies designed to 
facilitate wider eligibility for thrombolysis. The model basecase consisted of 
data from consenting patients following the acute stroke pathway recruited in 
participating hospitals with data on effectiveness of treatment and costs from 
published sources.
RESULTS: All change strategies were cost saving while increasing 
quality-adjusted life years gained. Using realistic estimates of effectiveness, 
the change strategy with the largest potential benefit was that of better 
recording of onset time, which resulted in 3.3 additional quality-adjusted life 
years and a cost saving of US $46,000 per 100,000 population. All strategies 
increased the number of thrombolysed patients and the number requiring urgent 
brain imaging (by 9% to 21% dependent on the scenario). Assuming a 
willingness-to-pay of US $30,000 per quality-adjusted life year gained, the 
potential budget available to deliver the interventions in each strategy ranged 
from US $50,000 to US $144,000.
CONCLUSIONS: These results suggest that any strategy that increases thrombolysis 
rates will result in cost savings and improved patient quality of life. 
Healthcare commissioners could consider this model when planning improvements in 
stroke care.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.113.003216
PMID: 24385272 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. J Phys Act Health. 2014 Nov;11(8):1556-64. doi: 10.1123/jpah.2012-0469. Epub
 2013 Dec 31.

Vancouver and the 2010 Olympic Games: physical activity for all?

Derom I(1), Lee D.

Author information:
(1)School of Kinesiology, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

BACKGROUND: The City of Vancouver, British Columbia strategically designed and 
implemented a municipal health promotion Policy--the Vancouver Active 
Communities policy--to leverage the 2010 Olympic Games. The goal of the policy 
was to increase physical activity participation among Vancouver residents by 
2010.
METHODS: In this paper, we conduct a critical policy analysis of health 
promotion policy documents that were available on the City of Vancouver's 
website.
RESULTS: We elaborate on the background to the policy and more specifically we 
examine its content: the problem definition, policy goals, and policy 
instruments.
DISCUSSION: Our analysis showed inconsistency within the policy, particularly 
because the implemented policy instruments were not designed to address needs of 
the identified target populations in need of health promotion efforts, which 
were used to legitimize the approval of funding for the policy. Inconsistency 
across municipal policies, especially in terms of promoting physical activity 
among low-income residents, was also problematic.
CONCLUSIONS: If other municipalities seek to leverage health promotion funding 
related to hosting sport mega-events, the programs and services should be 
designed to benefit the target populations used to justify the funding. 
Furthermore, municipalities should clearly indicate how funding will be 
maintained beyond the life expectancy of the mega-event.

DOI: 10.1123/jpah.2012-0469
PMID: 24385473 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Turk J Haematol. 2013 Mar;30(1):25-31. doi: 10.4274/tjh.2012.0001. Epub 2013
Mar  5.

Frequency and risk factors of endocrine complications in Turkish children and 
adolescents with sickle cell anemia.

Ozen S(1), Unal S(2), Erçetin N(3), Taşdelen B(4).

Author information:
(1)Mersin Maternity and Children's Hospital, Department of Pediatric 
Endocrinology, Mersin, Turkey.
(2)Mersin University Medical School, Department of Pediatric Hematology, Mersin, 
Turkey.
(3)Mersin Maternity and Children's Hospital, Biochemistry Laboratory, Mersin, 
Turkey.
(4)Mersin University, Department of Biostatistics, Mersin, Turkey.

OBJECTIVE: To define frequency and risk factors of abnormalities in growth, 
puberty, thyroid function, and bone and carbohydrate metabolisms in children and 
adolescents with sickle cell disease (SCD).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Endocrine problems including short stature, puberty and 
thyroid disorders, and carbohydrate and bone metabolisms in 50 Turkish children 
and adolescents with SCD were evaluated. Relationships among sex, disease type, 
blood transfusions, exchange and exacerbation frequency, ferritin levels, and 
endocrine pathologies were investigated.
RESULTS: The mean age of the study group was 13.1±2.9 years. Weights and heights 
of 12 participants (24%) were below -2 standard deviations and 4 participants 
(8%) had malnutrition. Mean difference (±standard deviation) between bone and 
chronological age of patients was -1.73±1.86 years. Fifty percent of patients 
had at least one endocrine abnormality other than vitamin D deficiency and 
insufficiency. Hypergonadotropic hypogonadism in 3 patients (6%), 
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism in 1 female patient (2%), and small testicular 
volume in respect to age in 3 male patients (8.5%) were seen. Growth hormone 
deficiency was detected in 1 (2%) female patient, and hypothyroidism was 
diagnosed in 3 patients (6%; 1 central case, 2 cases of primary hypothyroidism). 
At vertebral level, 5 patients (11.1%) had osteopenia and 1 patient (2.2%) had 
osteoporosis, while 5 patients (11.1%) had osteopenia at femur neck level. The 
most common endocrine abnormality was vitamin D deficiency. 25-Hydroxyvitamin D 
was deficient in 63.2% and insufficient in 18.4% of patients. Sex, disease type, 
blood transfusion frequency, exacerbation frequency, and ferritin levels were 
not related to endocrine pathologies. As the age was increased, standard 
deviation scores of femur neck bone mineral density was decreased (r =-0.56; 
p<0.05). Vitamin D was lower in patients whose weights and/or heights were below 
-2 standard deviations from the mean (p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Endocrine organ dysfunctions are commonly detected in children and 
adolescents with SCD, and vitamin D deficiency is the most commonly encountered 
