978. Pain Pract. 2015 Feb;15(2):107-16. doi: 10.1111/papr.12160. Epub 2014 Jan 3.

The 2-year cost-effectiveness of 3 options to treat lumbar spinal stenosis 
patients.

Udeh BL(1), Costandi S, Dalton JE, Ghosh R, Yousef H, Mekhail N.

Author information:
(1)Outcomes Research, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, U.S.A.

Comment in
    Pain Pract. 2014 Sep;14(7):e161-2.
    Pain Pract. 2014 Sep;14(7):e163-4.

Lumbar spinal stenosis (LSS) may result from degenerative changes of the spine, 
which lead to neural ischemia, neurogenic claudication, and a significant 
decrease in quality of life. Treatments for LSS range from conservative 
management including epidural steroid injections (ESI) to laminectomy surgery. 
Treatments vary greatly in cost and success. ESI is the least costly treatment 
may be successful for early stages of LSS but often must be repeated frequently. 
Laminectomy surgery is more costly and has higher complication rates. Minimally 
invasive lumbar decompression (mild(®) ) is an alternative. Using a 
decision-analytic model from the Medicare perspective, a cost-effectiveness 
analysis was performed comparing mild(®) to ESI or laminectomy surgery. The 
analysis population included patients with LSS who have moderate to severe 
symptoms and have failed conservative therapy. Costs included initial procedure, 
complications, and repeat/revision or alternate procedure after failure. Effects 
measured as change in quality-adjusted life years (QALY) from preprocedure to 2 
years postprocedure. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were determined, and 
sensitivity analysis conducted. The mild(®) strategy appears to be the most 
cost-effective ($43,760/QALY), with ESI the next best alternative at an 
additional $37,758/QALY. Laminectomy surgery was the least cost-effective 
($125,985/QALY).

© 2014 World Institute of Pain.

DOI: 10.1111/papr.12160
PMCID: PMC4786075
PMID: 24393198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: The authors have no conflict of 
interest to report.


979. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2014 Jan 6;62(7):1-63.

United States life tables, 2009.

Arias E.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents complete period life tables for the United 
States by race, Hispanic origin, and sex based on age-specific death rates in 
2009.
METHODS: Data used to prepare the 2009 life tables are 2009 final mortality 
statistics; July 1, 2009, population estimates based on the 2000 decennial 
census; and 2009 Medicare data for persons aged 66-99. The methodology used to 
estimate the 2009 life tables is the same as that used for data year 2008, which 
was revised from that used for data years 2000-2007. The methodology used to 
estimate the life tables for the Hispanic population remains unchanged from that 
developed for the publication of life tables by Hispanic origin for data year 
2006.
RESULTS: In 2009, the overall expectation of life at birth was 78.5 years. 
Between 2008 and 2009, life expectancy at birth increased for all groups 
considered. Life expectancy increased for both males (from 75.6 to 76.0) and 
females (80.6 to 80.9) and for the white population (78.5 to 78.8), the black 
population (74.0 to 74.5), the Hispanic population (81.0 to 81.2), the 
non-Hispanic white population (78.4 to 78.7), and the non-Hispanic black 
population (73.7 to 74.2).

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 24393483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 1998 Dec;7(3/4):314-9.

Food variety and biodiversity: Econutrition.

Wahlqvist ML(1), Specht RL.

Author information:
(1)Monash University, Monash Medical Centre, Melbourne, Australia.

Both annual biomass production and biodiversity at any locality on earth are 
continually under threat as the population of Homo sapiens steadily increases, 
with the resultant pollution of atmosphere, soil and water. Today, environmental 
degradation and global warming (with its effect on evaporative aerodynamics and 
cellular respiration) have increased at an alarming rate. The ABP of all 
terrestrial plant communities (natural or cultivated) is slowly declining, thus 
reducing the energy supply of component plants and resident animals; in turn, 
the biodiversity of all the world's ecosystems, plant and animal, is threatened. 
The maintenance of biodiversity is important to human health for several 
reasons: (i) a varied food supply is essential to maintain the health of the 
omnivorous human species; (ii) a range of diverse food sources is necessary to 
safe-guard against climatic and pestilent disasters which may affect one or more 
of the food sources; (iii) a diversity of plants and animals may provide a rich 
source of medicinal material, essential for the extraction of undiscovered 
therapeutic compounds; (iv) intact ecosystems of indigenous plants and animals 
appear to act as a buffer to the spread of invasive plants and animals, and of 
pathogens and toxins, thus contributing to the health of populations nearby; and 
(v) the 'spiritual' values of exploring the diversity of plants, animals and 
ecosystems in an area appear to have a beneficial effect on mental health, 
strengthening the feeling of 'belonging to the landscape'. The variety of foods, 
their energy contents and food values, consumed throughout the year is amenable 
to scientific enquiry; as is the amount of energy expended in this collection or 
production. The control and management of food production and of water supplies, 
with attention to safety issues, has led to an improvement in life expectancy 
for a proportion of the world's population. The question is at what point might 
human health be disadvantaged by the present-day food-production systems. In 
order to achieve variety in food patterns is an agreed and internationally 
asserted Dietary Guideline, but the way in which, and the extent to which, this 
is or needs to be achieved is a pressing issue for biological science in 
general. It is a field of enquiry which may be identified as 'Eco-nutrition'.

PMID: 24393691


981. Mol Ther. 2014 Mar;22(3):498-510. doi: 10.1038/mt.2013.239. Epub 2013 Oct
17.

Adeno-associated virus-mediated delivery of a recombinant single-chain antibody 
against misfolded superoxide dismutase for treatment of amyotrophic lateral 
sclerosis.

Patel P(1), Kriz J(1), Gravel M(1), Soucy G(1), Bareil C(1), Gravel C(1), Julien 
JP(2).

Author information:
(1)Research Centre of Institut universitaire en santé mentale de Québec, Québec, 
Québec, Canada; Department of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, Laval University, 
Québec, Québec, Canada.
(2)Research Centre of Institut universitaire en santé mentale de Québec, Québec, 
Québec, Canada; Department of Psychiatry and Neuroscience, Laval University, 
Québec, Québec, Canada. Electronic address: jean-pierre.julien@fmed.ulaval.ca.

There is emerging evidence that the misfolding of superoxide dismutase 1 (SOD1) 
may represent a common pathogenic event in both familial and sporadic 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS). To reduce the burden of misfolded SOD1 
species in the nervous system, we have tested a novel therapeutic approach based 
on adeno-associated virus (AAV)-mediated tonic expression of a DNA construct 
encoding a secretable single-chain fragment variable (scFv) antibody composed of 
the variable heavy and light chain regions of a monoclonal antibody (D3H5) 
binding specifically to misfolded SOD1. A single intrathecal injection of the 
AAV encoding the single-chain antibody in SOD1(G93A) mice at 45 days of age 
resulted in sustained expression of single-chain antibodies in the spinal cord, 
and it delayed disease onset and extension of life span by up to 28%, in direct 
correlation with scFv titers in the spinal cord. The treatment caused 
attenuation of neuronal stress signals and reduction in levels of misfolded SOD1 
in the spinal cord of SOD1(G93A) mice. From these results, we propose that an 
immunotherapy based on intrathecal inoculation of AAV encoding a secretable scFv 
against misfolded SOD1 should be considered as potential treatment for ALS, 
especially for individuals carrying SOD1 mutations.

DOI: 10.1038/mt.2013.239
PMCID: PMC3944333
PMID: 24394188 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Ther Umsch. 2014 Jan;71(1):23-9. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000478.

[When to start antiretroviral therapy].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Elzi L(1), Battegay M(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Infektiologie und Spitalhygiene, Universitätsspital Basel.

Combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) has improved the prognosis of 
HIV-infected individuals dramatically - which is now close to a normal life 
expectancy in a significant proportion of treated individuals. However, several 
factors, such as the presence of transmitted HIV drug resistance, adherence to 
treatment, co-morbidities, drug-drug interactions and adverse effects may 
influence the efficacy of cART. Due to newer und better tolerated drugs, a trend 
towards earlier initiation of cART has occurred over time. Since cART should be 
taken life-long, it is of paramount importance to adequately prepare and inform 
the patient, in order to optimize adherence and thus treatment efficacy.

Publisher: Die HIV-Infektion ist dank der antiretroviralen Kombinationstherapie 
(cART) zu einer chronischen, ambulant behandelbaren Krankheit mit beinahe 
normaler Lebenserwartung geworden. Voraussetzung für die drastische Senkung der 
Morbidität und Mortalität ist die lebenslange Einnahme der cART, was eine 
erhebliche Herausforderung für Patienten und Arzt darstellt. Die Wirksamkeit der 
cART ist von mehreren Faktoren abhängig, wie vorbestehende Resistenzen, 
Adhärenz, Komorbiditäten, Medikamenteninteraktionen und Nebenwirkungen. Die 
Indikationsstellung hat sich in den letzten Jahren in Richtung eines früheren 
Therapiebeginnes entwickelt, mehrere neue Medikamente mit weniger Nebenwirkungen 
sind zugelassen worden. Zum erfolgreichen Start einer cART gehört die Motivation 
und Bereitschaft des Patienten, die Therapie in seinen Alltag zu integrieren und 
die Medikamente langfristig, regelmäßig und ohne Unterbrüche einzunehmen.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000478
PMID: 24394206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 1995 Sep;4(3):287-93.

Nutrition transition in China: the growth of affluent diseases with the 
alleviation of undernutrition.

Chen XS(1), Ge KY.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Nutrition and Food Hygiene, Chinese Academy of Preventive 
Medicine, Beijing, China.

Since 1950, the annual GNP in China increased from 104 to 1401 Yuan per capita, 
while household real purchasing power quadrupled. In addition, food production 
and distribution also rose. China's improved standard of living has brought 
about several health changes: a reduction in diseases of poverty (high infant 
mortality, communicable disease, nutritional deficiency), the doubling of life 
expectancy from 35 years in the 1950s to 67 (male) and 71 (female) years, but it 
has increased diseases of affluence, such as obesity and cardiovascular disease. 
The three leading causes of death in China today are cancer, cerebrovascular 
disease, and myocardial infarction, while deaths from tuberculosis and acute 
infectious illness are markedly reduced. About 60 million of the population 
suffer from hypertension and a quarter that number has diabetes. Because China 
is a vast territory with different levels of development and types of diet, 
pockets of nutritional deficiency remain; about 35 million people are 
undernourished. While most of the population receive sufficient macronutrients 
to satisfy the Chinese RDA, they frequently lack micronutrients. Childhood 
rickets and iron deficiency anaemia are prevalent in rural regions and close to 
half of the children under three years of age in the autonomous regions and 
provinces suffer from these conditions. Chinese diets are changing. They are 
becoming more westernised and people are consuming more food of animal origin. 
This is most noticeable in cities where, in 1988, fat accounted for 30% of the 
caloric intake (up from 26% in 1981). In urban areas about 10% of woman and 5% 
of men are now obese. China is encouraging citizens to eat a variety of foods 
along more traditional lines, with plant foods constituting the bulk of intake, 
and a lesser amount of food of animal origin. In 1993, the State Council 
approved a national position paper entitled "Outlines for China's Food Structure 
Reform and Development in the 1990s". The government hopes that this will lead 
to a healthier national diet by the year 2000.

PMID: 24394353


984. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 1995 Sep;4(3):294-7.

Studies on the relationship between changes in dietary patterns and health 
status.

Zhao F(1), Guo J, Chen H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Second Military Medical University, Shanghai, 
China.

In order to study the relationship between dietary composition and health and 
disease, we investigated retrospectively the changes in diet composition, health 
status and disease specific mortality of the Shanghai population from 1950 to 
1985. The results showed that remarkable changes occurred in dietary 
composition, health status and disease mortality. The energy from grain products 
decreased from 80-83% in the 1950s to 68-72% in the 1980s, and the energy from 
animal foods increased from 6.5-8.5% in the 1950s to 17.5-18.0% in the 1980s. 
With the changes in dietary composition, notable changes also occurred in the 
nutritional composition of the diet. From the 1950s to the 1980s, energy from 
fat was increased from 16.3-20.1% to 24.0-28.0%, and the energy from 
carbohydrates decreased from 72.0-73.5% to 62.2-65.8%. Almost certainly as a 
result of the changes in diet, health status and disease mortality also changed. 
For example, the average height in males of 18-20 years old increased from 
164.89 cm in 1955 to 167.33 cm in 1974, and the average life span of males and 
females increased from 42.0 years and 45.6 years in 1950 to 72.1 years and 76.4 
years in 1985, respectively. At the same time, the rank order of mortality 
causes also changed. Before 1950, the first three causes of death were measles, 
tuberculosis and senility, but in 1985 they were malignant tumours, 
cerebrovascular disease, and ischaemic heart disease. In particular, the 
mortality from ischaemic heart disease is now higher than in Japan. The causes 
of these changes may be the changes of dietary composition and nutritional 
composition of diet, although there are other factors. Therefore, changes in 
dietary composition which maintain or improve life expectancy, yet decrease the 
burden of chronic non-communicable disease is required.

PMID: 24394354


985. Nat Rev Urol. 2014 Feb;11(2):99-109. doi: 10.1038/nrurol.2013.314. Epub 2014
Jan  7.

Male sexual dysfunction and HIV--a clinical perspective.

Santi D(1), Brigante G(1), Zona S(2), Guaraldi G(2), Rochira V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical, Metabolic and Neural Sciences, Section of 
Endocrinology, University of Modena & Reggio Emilia, Via Campi 287, 41125 
Modena, Italy.
(2)Metabolic Clinic, Infectious and Tropical Disease Unit, Department of 
Medicine and Medical Specialties, University of Modena & Reggio Emilia, Via del 
Pozzo 71, 41124 Modena, Italy.

Sexual dysfunction in men with HIV is often overlooked by clinicians owing to 
many factors, including the taboo of sexuality. The improved life expectancy of 
patients with HIV requires physicians to consider their general wellbeing and 
sexual health with a renewed interest. However, data on sexual dysfunction in 
those with HIV are scarce. Erectile dysfunction (ED) is the most common sexual 
dysfunction in men, with a prevalence of ∼30-50% and is frequent even in men <40 
years of age. HIV infection itself is the strongest predictor of ED, and many 
factors related to the infection-fear of virus transmission, changes in body 
image, HIV-related comorbidities, infection stigma, obligatory condom use-all 
impair erectile function. The diagnosis and treatment of sexual dysfunction is 
based on a multidisciplinary approach, which involves specialists in both 
infectious diseases and sexual medicine. Particular attention should be paid to 
the promotion of safer sex in these patients. This Review, describes the issues 
surrounding sexual dysfunction in men with HIV and aims to provide clinical 
advice for the physician treating these patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nrurol.2013.314
PMID: 24394405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2000 Sep;9(3):157-63. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-6047.2000.00139.x.

Historical perspectives on indigenous health in Australia.

Hetzel BS(1).

Author information:
(1)International Council for Control of Iodine Deficiency Disorders, North 
Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

In spite of much effort over the past 25 years, the life expectancy of the 
indigenous people remains nearly 20 years behind the non-Aboriginal white 
population of Australia. These figures compare unfavourably with the improved 
life expectancy over the past 25 years of other indigenous peoples, such as the 
New Zealand Maori and the American Indian populations. By 1990-94, the average 
Australian indigenous all-cause mortality rate was 1.9 times the Maori rate, 2.4 
times the US indigenous rate and 3.15 times the all-Australian rate. The 
persistence of this discrepancy in Australia is obviously a matter of great 
concern. There is clearly a gap between available knowledge and its application. 
Some indication of the possibility of reversal of the current situation is given 
by a recent report of the beneficial impact of the Homelands Movement on Health 
Outcomes in Central Australian Aborigines. The study compared the prevalence of 
obesity, hypertension and diabetes in two groups of Aboriginal adults: those 
living in homelands versus those living in centralized communities in Central 
Australia. Baseline studies revealed a lower prevalence of diabetes, 
hypertension and obesity in the homelands group, compared with those living in 
centralized communities. They were also less likely to die and less likely to be 
hospitalized for any cause, particularly infections, injury involving alcohol 
and other injury. Mean age at death was 58 and 48 years for the residents of 
homelands and centralized communities, respectively. The benefits were most 
marked in young adults. It is suggested that the homelands communities have a 
greater degree of control of their own lives than those living in the 
centralized communities and this may be an important factor in their improved 
health status. Improvement in indigenous health should be one of the key issues 
of reconciliation. Priorities include community control of Aboriginal Health 
Services under the National Aboriginal Community Controlled Health Organisation 
(NACCHO), throughout Australia, a greater priority for prevention and public 
health services (housing, water supply and environmental services) education and 
economic issues, improved training of indigenous health professionals and 
increased funding. A national professional organization including NACCHO needs 
to be established to bridge the big gap between available knowledge and its 
application for the benefit of the indigenous people of Australia.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-6047.2000.00139.x
PMID: 24394449


987. Ageing Res Rev. 2014 Jan;13:115-24. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.12.008. Epub
2014  Jan 3.

Role of translation initiation factor 4G in lifespan regulation and age-related 
health.

Howard A(1), Rogers AN(2).

Author information:
(1)Davis Center for Regenerative Biology and Medicine, Mount Desert Island 
Biological Laboratory, 159 Old Bar Harbor Road, Salisbury Cove, ME 04672, USA. 
Electronic address: ahoward@mdibl.org.
(2)Davis Center for Regenerative Biology and Medicine, Mount Desert Island 
Biological Laboratory, 159 Old Bar Harbor Road, Salisbury Cove, ME 04672, USA. 
Electronic address: arogers@mdibl.org.

Inhibiting expression of eukaryotic translation initiation factor 4G (eIF4G) 
arrests normal development but extends lifespan when suppressed during 
adulthood. In addition to reducing overall translation, inhibition alters the 
stoichiometry of mRNA translation in favor of genes important for responding to 
stress and against those associated with growth and reproduction in C. elegans. 
In humans, aberrant expression of eIF4G is associated with certain forms of 
cancer and neurodegeneration. Here we review what is known about the roles of 
eIF4G in molecular, cellular, and organismal contexts. Also discussed are the 
gaps in understanding of this factor, particularly with regard to the roles of 
specific forms of expression in individual tissues and the importance of 
understanding eIF4G for development of potential therapeutic applications.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.12.008
PMCID: PMC3966135
PMID: 24394551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 1996 Sep;5(3):132-4.

Transitions in diet and health: implication of modern lifestyles in Indonesia.

Muhilal(1).

Author information:
(1)Nutrition Research and Development Centre, Ministry of Health, Bogor, 
Indonesia.

Indonesia is in the midst of major transitions in food intake and health 
patterns. These changes are predicated on economic growth, rising levels of 
education and globalisation of culture. Somehow retaining the food-health 
advantages of traditional Indonesian lifestyle and accommodating the advances 
which the West has made, especially in life expectancy, without their increasing 
health problems and costs, is required. From 1972 to 1992, mortality ranking for 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) in Indonesia had gone from the 11th most common to 
the most common. The Jakarta Monica studies (1988 and 1993) provide prima facie 
evidence that similar cardiovascular risk factors to those in industrialised 
countries are operative for the emergent CVD problem - positive energy balance 
with obesity, increased animal fat consumption and decreased intake of 
plant-derived foods, with their many biologically active components, both 
nutrient and non-nutrient. Nutrition surveys show that the contribution of fat 
to energy intake has doubled from 1974 to 1992 (10.4% in 1974 to 20.5% in 1992). 
Effort is now required to enable consumers to overcome prejudice against plant 
foods, for whatever reason, to use low fat animal-derived food and for food 
products and their promotion to favour healthy choice.

PMID: 24394566


989. Pediatrics. 2014 Feb;133(2):243-53. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-0718. Epub 2014
Jan  6.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of the national Perinatal Hepatitis B Prevention 
Program.

Barbosa C(1), Smith EA, Hoerger TJ, Fenlon N, Schillie SF, Bradley C, Murphy TV.

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Chicago, Illinois; and.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the cost-effectiveness of the national Perinatal Hepatitis 
B Prevention Program (PHBPP) over the lifetime of the 2009 US birth cohort and 
compare the costs and outcomes of the program to a scenario without PHBPP 
support. PHBPP's goals are to ensure all infants born to hepatitis B (HepB) 
surface antigen-positive women receive timely postexposure prophylaxis, complete 
HepB vaccine series, and obtain serologic testing after series completion.
METHODS: A decision analytic tree and a long-term Markov model represented the 
risk of perinatal and childhood infections under different prevention 
alternatives, and the long-term health and economic consequences of HepB 
infection. Outcome measures were the number of perinatal infections and 
childhood infections from infants born to HepB surface antigen-positive women, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), lifetime costs, and incremental cost per 
QALY gained. The health outcomes and total costs of each strategy were compared 
incrementally. Costs were evaluated from the health care system perspective and 
expressed in US dollars at a 2010 price base.
RESULTS: In all analyses, the PHBPP increased QALYs and led to higher reductions 
in the number of perinatal and childhood infections than no PHBPP, with a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $2602 per QALY. In sensitivity analyses, the 
cost-effectiveness ratio was robust to variations in model inputs, and there 
were instances where the program was both more effective and cost saving.
CONCLUSIONS: This study indicated that the current PHBPP represents a 
cost-effective use of resources, and ensuring the program reaches all pregnant 
women could present additional public health benefits.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-0718
PMID: 24394684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Orthop Traumatol Surg Res. 2014 Feb;100(1):119-26. doi: 
10.1016/j.otsr.2013.09.008. Epub 2014 Jan 3.

Long-term quality of life after en-bloc vertebrectomy: 25 patients followed up 
for 9 years.

Mazel C(1), Owona P(2), Cogan A(2), Balabaud L(2), Grunenwald D(3).

Author information:
(1)Service de chirurgie orthopédique et traumatologique, institut mutualiste 
Montsouris, 42, boulevard Jourdan, 75014 Paris, France; Paris XIII, 
Sorbonne-Paris-Cité, 99, avenue Jean-Baptiste-Clément, 93430 Villetaneuse, 
France. Electronic address: cristian.mazel@imm.fr.
(2)Service de chirurgie orthopédique et traumatologique, institut mutualiste 
Montsouris, 42, boulevard Jourdan, 75014 Paris, France.
(3)Service de chirurgie thoracique, groupement hospitalier universitaire Est, 
AP-HP Tenon, 4, rue de la Chine, 75020 Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: Assess quality-of-life results in patients who have undergone 
extensive curative surgery for spinal tumor and compare them to the general 
population in France.
INTRODUCTION: Life expectancy is not the only criterion to assess the outcomes 
after massive tumor resections. Residual quality of life is also crucial. An 
indication for major surgery for spinal tumor should take the patient's 
long-term functional status into account, but the literature is limited on this 
question.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Twenty-five living patients from a group of 120 operated 
were assessed, all of whom were operated on by the same surgeon between 1984 and 
2007. The mean follow-up was 9 years (range, 3-25 years). The mean age at 
surgery was 49 years. The patients completed different functional and 
quality-of-life questionnaires: the Oswestry Disability Index version 2 (ODI), 
the PROLO, the Karnofsky Index of performance status (KI), the Eastern 
Cooperative Oncology Group performance status (ECOG), the Short Form-36 Health 
Survey (SF-36), and the EuroQol-5 Dimensions (EQ5D). In addition, each patient 
was clinically and radiographically evaluated. Subgroups were identified 
considering the number of levels resected and histology. Their results on the 
SF-36 were compared with the results from the general population in France.
RESULTS: The mean PCS (physical component summary of the SF-36) was 52.4, the 
MCS (mental component summary, the psychological component of the SF-36) was 
47.7, the ODI was 18.2, the PROLO was 7, the ECOG was 1, and the KI was 80%. The 
resections at three levels were associated with worse results in terms of 
quality of life, but overall, the results were similar to the French general 
population data for all categories of the SF-36.
CONCLUSION: Appropriate indications for massive spinal resection give good 
oncological and functional results. Although the expected life expectancy 
justifies this aggressive surgery, postoperative quality of life shows that it 
can also be successful on a functional level.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level IV; retrospective clinical study.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.otsr.2013.09.008
PMID: 24394919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Qual Life Res. 2014 Jun;23(5):1411-9. doi: 10.1007/s11136-013-0608-1. Epub
2014  Jan 7.

Visualization and dynamics of multidimensional health-related 
quality-of-life-adjusted overall survival: a new analytic approach.

Andrei AC(1), Grady KL.

Author information:
(1)Bluhm Carrdiovascular Institute, Northwestern University, 676 N St Clair St., 
Suite 1700, Chicago, IL, USA, aandrei@nmh.org.

BACKGROUND: Vesnarinone Trial (VesT) was a three-armed, placebo-controlled, 
randomized clinical trial designed to study the effects of 30 mg or 60 mg/day 
vesnarinone. Certain contradictory results involving patient health-related 
quality-of-life (HRQOL) and overall survival (OS) have made a definitive and 
unified conclusion difficult.
METHODS: To reconcile these findings, we have focused on the HRQOL-adjusted OS, 
commonly known as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Currently, analyses of 
QALYs incorporate a single HRQOL subscale. However, the VesT HRQOL instrument 
had two subscales: physical (PHYS) and emotional (EMOT). We have developed new 
ways to visualize and compare EMOT- and PHYS-adjusted OS.
RESULTS: In each VesT arm, there was an increased probability of superior 
EMOT-adjusted OS, compared to PHYS-adjusted OS. The magnitude of these findings 
was comparable across trial arms. Despite inferior survival and superior EMOT 
and PHYS scores, the 60-mg/day arm presents similar EMOT- and PHYS-adjusted OS 
compared to the placebo arm.
CONCLUSIONS: We have provided a fresh perspective on the complex interactions 
between multiple HRQOL dimensions and OS. These novel methods address the 
burgeoning need for robust information on the interplay between OS and HRQOL 
from a patient, clinical care and public policy perspective.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-013-0608-1
PMCID: PMC4032617
PMID: 24395525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Health Aff (Millwood). 2014 Jan;33(1):110-5. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0518.

Diabetes associated with early labor-force exit: a comparison of sixteen 
high-income countries.

Rumball-Smith J, Barthold D, Nandi A, Heymann J.

The economic burden of diabetes and the effects of the disease on the labor 
force are of substantial importance to policy makers. We examined the impact of 
diabetes on leaving the labor force across sixteen countries, using data about 
66,542 participants in the Survey of Health, Ageing and Retirement in Europe; 
the US Health and Retirement Survey; or the English Longitudinal Study of 
Ageing. After matching people with diabetes to those without the disease in 
terms of age, sex, and years of education, we used Cox proportional hazards 
analyses to estimate the effect of diabetes on time of leaving the labor force. 
Across the sixteen countries, people diagnosed with diabetes had a 30 percent 
increase in the rate of labor-force exit, compared to people without the 
disease. The costs associated with earlier labor-force exit are likely to be 
substantial. These findings further support the value of greater public- and 
private-sector investment in preventing and managing diabetes.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.0518
PMID: 24395942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. J Phys Ther Sci. 2013 Nov;25(11):1509-10. doi: 10.1589/jpts.25.1509. Epub
2013  Dec 11.

Effect of thoracic stretching, thoracic extension exercise and exercises for 
cervical and scapular posture on thoracic kyphosis angle and upper thoracic 
pain.

Yoo WG(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Biomedical Science and 
Engineering, Inje University and Elderly Life Redesign Institute, Republic of 
Korea.

[Purpose] The purpose of this study was to investigate the effect of thoracic 
stretching, a thoracic extension exercise and exercises for cervical and 
scapular posture on thoracic kyphosis angle and upper thoracic pain. [Subject] A 
36-year-old male, who complained of upper thoracic pain at the T1-4 level with 
forward head and round shoulders, was the subject. [Methods] He performed 
thoracic stretching (session 1), a thoracic extension exercise (session 2), and 
muscle exercises for cervical and scapular posture (session 3). [Results] The 
upper thoracic pressure pain threshold increased after session 1, session 2, and 
session 3. The thoracic kyphosis angle decreased after session 1, session 2, and 
session 3. [Conclusion] We suggest that intervention for thoracic pain or 
kyphotic thoracic correction should use not only an approach for extending the 
thoracic muscles, but also an approach treating muscles in the cervical and 
scapular region.

DOI: 10.1589/jpts.25.1509
PMCID: PMC3881488
PMID: 24396221


994. Nihon Rinsho. 2013 Nov;71(11):1960-4.

[Cognitive decline in elderly individuals with type 2 diabetes mellitus].

[Article in Japanese]

Sakurai T(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Comprehensive Care and Research on Memory Disorders, National 
Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology.

Cognitive decline in diabetes impairs the activity of daily living and shortens 
the healthy life expectancy. Once diabetes is accompanied by demented disorders, 
it becomes difficult to achieve good control of diabetes. Treatment for diabetes 
and demented disease should be provided concomitantly, because cognitive 
dysfunction worsens diabetic control and hyperglycemia worsens cognitive 
function vice versa, resulting in increased risks of acute metabolic failure. 
Compliance to medical treatment of diabetes is seriously impaired in the elderly 
with cognitive decline. Comprehensive approach with several medical specialists 
and care stuffs is thus needed. This manuscript briefly summaries the recent 
evidence for target of glycemic control and appropriate use of anti-diabetic 
medication in diabetic elderly with cognitive impairment.

PMID: 24397166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Nihon Rinsho. 2013 Nov;71(11):1982-6.

[Overview of drug therapy in elderly diabetic patients].

[Article in Japanese]

Kigawa Y(1), Suzuki T(2), Oba K(3).

Author information:
(1)Hanno Geriatric Center.
(2)Division of Geriatric Medicine, Nippon Medical School.
(3)Oarai Coast Core Clinic.

General treatment principles for elderly diabetic patient with type 2 diabetes 
are the same as those of adult care. However, hypoglycemia and other adverse 
effects of glucose-lowering treatment are more common in older patients. 
Understanding the advantages and disadvantages of each antihyperglycemic drug 
class helps clinicians individualize therapy for elderly patients. Especially, 
given the heterogeneity of the older adult population, the risk of hypoglycemia 
must be carefully considered before using sulfonylureas and insulin regimen. 
Less stringent goals for glycemic control are recommended for frail elderly 
diabetic patients with limited life expectancy, advanced diabetes complications, 
or extensive comorbid conditions. The aggressive management of cardiovascular 
risk factors, such as hypertension, dyslipidemia, obesity, inactivity or 
smoking, is likely to have even greater benefits.

PMID: 24397170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Feb;14(1):131-8. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.873703. Epub 2014 Jan 7.

Cost-effectiveness of sorafenib compared to best supportive care in second line 
renal cell cancer from a payer perspective in Cyprus.

Petrou PK(1), Talias MA.

Author information:
(1)Health Care Management Programme, Open University of Cyprus, Nicosia, Cyprus.

The objective of this study is to assess the cost effectiveness of sorafenib as 
a second line treatment of advanced renal cell carcinoma compared to standard 
best supportive care (BSC) in Cyprus. A probabilistic Decision analytic Markov 
Model was created to simulate disease progression and data from landmark trials 
were used. Actual local costs were set according to current guidelines in 
Cyprus. The incremental cost per quality adjusted life year of sorafenib versus 
BSC was €102,059. The probability of sorafenib to be cost effective at the 
threshold of €60,000 was 0%. Total costs were sensitive to the price of product, 
its effectiveness and to a lesser degree to the utility values. Sorafenib 
demonstrated superior clinical effectiveness compared to BSC, but it's not cost 
effective under current willingness to pay threshold. Its orphan status along 
with solidarity principle may justify reimbursement on an individual patient 
basis.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.873703
PMID: 24397606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


997. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2000 Sep;9 Suppl 1:S101-2. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-6047.2000.00172.x.

Food and health economics in the 21st century.

Ruthven PK(1).

Author information:
(1)IBISWorld.com, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

People are living longer and with more pain-free and comfortable lives as we 
begin the 21st century in 2001. Life expectancy was just 53 years (for males) in 
the beginning of the 20th century and is now 78 years. One in four children born 
in 2000 are expected to live beyond 100 years. There are many reasons for such 
advancement: fewer accidents, particularly work and travel related; better 
diets; and more and better health care. Australia's health spending is around 
8.4% of gross domestic product, ranking eighth in the Organization for Economic 
Cooperation and Development, and has arguably one of the best value-for-money 
programs in the world. However, the make-up of the $50 billion expenditure in 
2000 is reflecting changes from the past. We are moving away from institutional 
health care, embracing preventative care and 'alternative' approaches via 
fitness, diets, well-being programs and more natural remedies. Few, however, 
would suggest that pharmacology and surgery (including less invasive) are not 
important; they are. Food continues to play a vital role in our healthy lives. 
In 2000 we will expend approximately $90 billion on food and liquor prepared and 
consumed at home, or prepared and/or eaten out of the home. The latter is 
increasing as we outsource more and more of our meals (currently one in five). 
Our diet is changing. We are consuming more poultry, seafood, fruit and fruit 
products (including juices), vegetables, grain products and wine. We are 
consuming less red meat and meat products, eggs, oils and fats, sugars and beer. 
Our lifestyles are changing dramatically as we leave the Industrial Age further 
and further behind. The New Age began around 1965 (and should itself be 
displaced around 2040). Included in these changes are working wives, outsourcing 
of more and more household chores, embracing the Internet and electronic 
'guardian angels' and much more. It promises to be an exciting, healthier and 
longer living new century.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-6047.2000.00172.x
PMID: 24398268


998. Asia Pac J Clin Nutr. 2000 Sep;9 Suppl 1:S4-9. doi: 
10.1046/j.1440-6047.2000.00174.x.

Evidence-based nutrition.

Trichopoulos D(1), Lagiou P, Trichopoulou A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, 677 Huntington 
Avenue, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

What are the objectives of an ideal diet? Are they to prolong life or maximize 
quality adjusted life expectancy? Does this focus on individuals or on the 
population at large, taking equity and resources into account? What about 
externalities that should take into account cultural heritage, protection of the 
environment and macroeconomic considerations? Few people have the experience, 
expertise and knowledge to adequately address these questions. It is only 
feasible to argue that there are two approaches in order to establish the proper 
diet, with the limited objective of longevity. Contrary to the assertions of 
several influential groups, there is no such thing as a 'positive health', and 
longevity can only be defined as the inverse of mortality from all causes. The 
crucial questions are: do we need to study the proper diet to reduce incidence 
of and mortality from particular common diseases and then find the common 
elements in these various diets in order to construct de novo the ideal diet 
(bottom up approach)? Alternatively, is it better to harvest the experience of 
various cultures whose diets appear to protect against premature morbidity and 
mortality (top down approach)? The first approach would rely on associations 
between food groups, foods and nutrients on the one hand and the incidence of 
specific diseases on the other, whereas the second would evaluate and quantify 
the effects of 'natural' diets on longevity. The first approach has been largely 
followed by mainstream nutritional epidemiologists, whereas the second has been 
advocated by a few international experts.

DOI: 10.1046/j.1440-6047.2000.00174.x
PMID: 24398277


999. Molecules. 2014 Jan 6;19(1):568-80. doi: 10.3390/molecules19010568.

Hormesis of glyceollin I, an induced phytoalexin from soybean, on budding yeast 
chronological lifespan extension.

Liu Y(1), Wu Z(2), Feng S(3), Yang X(4), Huang D(5).

Author information:
(1)Hubei Key Laboratory of TCM Based Functional Food Quality and Safety, Jing 
Brand Company, Daye 435100, Hubei, China. lyc@jingpai.com.
(2)Hubei Key Laboratory of TCM Based Functional Food Quality and Safety, Jing 
Brand Company, Daye 435100, Hubei, China. wuziyun@gmail.com.
(3)Hubei Key Laboratory of TCM Based Functional Food Quality and Safety, Jing 
Brand Company, Daye 435100, Hubei, China. fsb@jingpai.com.
(4)Hubei Key Laboratory of TCM Based Functional Food Quality and Safety, Jing 
Brand Company, Daye 435100, Hubei, China. yangxna@hotmail.com.
(5)Hubei Key Laboratory of TCM Based Functional Food Quality and Safety, Jing 
Brand Company, Daye 435100, Hubei, China. chmhdj@nus.edu.sg.

Glyceollin I, an induced phytoalexin isolated from soybean, has been reported to 
have various bioactivities, including anti-bacterial, anti-nematode, 
anti-fungal, anti-estrogenic and anti-cancer, anti-oxidant, anti-inflammatory, 
insulin sensitivity enhancing, and attenuation of vascular contractions. Here we 
show that glyceollin I has hormesis and extends yeast life span at low (nM) 
doses in a calorie restriction (CR)-dependent manner, while it reduces life span 
and inhibits yeast cell proliferation at higher (μM) doses. In contrast, the 
other two isomers (glyceollin II and III) cannot extend yeast life span and only 
show life span reduction and antiproliferation at higher doses. Our results in 
anti-aging activity indicate that glyceollin I might be a promising calorie 
restriction mimetic candidate, and the high content of glyceollins could improve 
the bioactivity of soybean as functional food ingredients.

DOI: 10.3390/molecules19010568
PMCID: PMC6270785
PMID: 24399048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


1000. Arch Ital Urol Androl. 2013 Dec 31;85(4):175-9. doi:
10.4081/aiua.2013.4.175.

Renal cell carcinoma with venous neoplastic thrombosis: a ten years review.

Pirola GM(1), Saredi G, Damiano G, Marconi AM.

Author information:
(1)Urology Unit, Ospedale di Circolo e Fondazione Macchi, Varese. 
gmo.pirola@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: To review the 10-year experience of our urological unit in the surgical 
management of renal cell carcinoma (RCC) with neoplastic tumor thrombosis 
focusing on postoperative survival.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We underwent a retrospective analysis of the patients 
treated for this pathology during the last decade 2002-2012, stratifying them by 
tumor thrombus level and histological subtype. Kaplan-Meyer curves were used to 
assess survival.
RESULTS: Overall, 67 patients underwent surgery for RCC with neoplastic tumoral 
thrombosis in the period under review. 60 were clear cell RCC, 4 were urothelial 
papillary tumors of the renal pelvis and 3 were rare histotypes, as a 
nefroblastoma, a spinocellular tumor of the renal pelvis and an unclassifiable 
renal carcinoma. Thrombus level was I in 40 cases, II in 17, III in 2 and IV in 
8 patients. We report the main postoperative complications and our survival 
data, with mean follow up of 36 months. Tumor stage is the most important 
variable in predicting survival. Patients with N0M0 disease had 70% survival at 
36 months, instead of 20% for those with primitive metastatic tumor.
CONCLUSION: Our survival results fit with the main reports in literature and our 
surgical management was completely in keeping with international guidelines. We 
did not observe relevany post-operative complications, except of hemorrhagic 
ones that occurred in 6 patients (9% of total) and were always successfully 
managed. Eighteen patients (26.87% of total) underwent caval filter positioning, 
without evidence of complications during its positioning or removal. Life 
expectancy was particularly low for the cases of RCC without clear cell 
histotype (7 cases in our series, 10.4% of total) that always was less than one 
year from surgery.

DOI: 10.4081/aiua.2013.4.175
PMID: 24399117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2014 Feb;7(1):80-8. doi:
10.1161/CIRCGENETICS.113.000280.  Epub 2014 Jan 6.

Transforming growth factor-β and inflammation in vascular (type IV) 
Ehlers-Danlos syndrome.

Morissette R(1), Schoenhoff F, Xu Z, Shilane DA, Griswold BF, Chen W, Yang J, 
Zhu J, Fert-Bober J, Sloper L, Lehman J, Commins N, Van Eyk JE, McDonnell NB.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Clinical Investigation, National Institute on Aging, Baltimore, 
MD.

Comment in
    Circ Cardiovasc Genet. 2014 Feb;7(1):5-7.

BACKGROUND: Vascular Ehlers-Danlos syndrome (VEDS) causes reduced life 
expectancy because of arterial dissections/rupture and hollow organ rupture. 
Although the causative gene, COL3A1, was identified >20 years ago, there has 
been limited progress in understanding the disease mechanisms or identifying 
treatments.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We studied inflammatory and transforming growth factor-β 
(TGF-β) signaling biomarkers in plasma and from dermal fibroblasts from patients 
with VEDS. Analyses were done in terms of clinical disease severity, 
genotype-phenotype correlations, and body composition and fat deposition 
alterations. VEDS subjects had increased circulating TGF-β1, TGF-β2, monocyte 
chemotactic protein-1, C-reactive protein, intercellular adhesion molecule-1, 
vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, and leptin and decreased interleukin-8 versus 
controls. VEDS dermal fibroblasts secreted more TGF-β2, whereas downstream 
canonical/noncanonical TGF-β signaling was not different. Patients with COL3A1 
exon skipping mutations had higher plasma intercellular adhesion molecule-1 and 
vascular cell adhesion molecule-1, and VEDS probands had abnormally high plasma 
C-reactive protein versus affected patients identified through family members 
before any disease manifestations. Patients with VEDS had higher mean platelet 
volumes, suggesting increased platelet turnover because of ongoing vascular 
damage, as well as increased regional truncal adiposity.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings suggest that VEDS is a systemic disease with a major 
inflammatory component. C-reactive protein is linked to disease state and may be 
a disease activity marker. No changes in downstream TGF-β signaling and 
increased platelet turnover suggest that chronic vascular damage may partially 
explain increased plasma TGF-β1. Finally, we found a novel role for dysregulated 
TGF-β2, as well as adipocyte dysfunction, as demonstrated through reduced 
interleukin-8 and elevated leptin in VEDS.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCGENETICS.113.000280
PMID: 24399159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. JAMA. 2014 Jan 8;311(2):164-71. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.285112.

Tobacco control and the reduction in smoking-related premature deaths in the 
United States, 1964-2012.

Holford TR(1), Meza R(2), Warner KE(3), Meernik C(2), Jeon J(4), Moolgavkar 
SH(4), Levy DT(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, Yale University School of Public Health, New 
Haven, Connecticut.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, University of Michigan School of Public Health, 
Ann Arbor.
(3)Department of Health Management and Policy, University of Michigan School of 
Public Health, Ann Arbor.
(4)Program in Biostatistics and Biomathematics, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research 
Center, Seattle, Washington.
(5)Lombardi Comprehensive Cancer Center, Georgetown University, Washington, DC.

IMPORTANCE: January 2014 marks the 50th anniversary of the first surgeon 
general's report on smoking and health. This seminal document inspired efforts 
by governments, nongovernmental organizations, and the private sector to reduce 
the toll of cigarette smoking through reduced initiation and increased 
cessation.
OBJECTIVE: To model reductions in smoking-related mortality associated with 
implementation of tobacco control since 1964.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Smoking histories for individual birth 
cohorts that actually occurred and under likely scenarios had tobacco control 
never emerged were estimated. National mortality rates and mortality rate ratio 
estimates from analytical studies of the effect of smoking on mortality yielded 
death rates by smoking status. Actual smoking-related mortality from 1964 
through 2012 was compared with estimated mortality under no tobacco control that 
included a likely scenario (primary counterfactual) and upper and lower bounds 
that would capture plausible alternatives.
EXPOSURES: National Health Interview Surveys yielded cigarette smoking histories 
for the US adult population in 1964-2012.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Number of premature deaths avoided and years of life 
saved were primary outcomes. Change in life expectancy at age 40 years 
associated with change in cigarette smoking exposure constituted another measure 
of overall health outcomes.
RESULTS: In 1964-2012, an estimated 17.7 million deaths were related to smoking, 
an estimated 8.0 million (credible range [CR], 7.4-8.3 million, for the lower 
and upper tobacco control counterfactuals, respectively) fewer premature 
smoking-related deaths than what would have occurred under the alternatives and 
thus associated with tobacco control (5.3 million [CR, 4.8-5.5 million] men and 
2.7 million [CR, 2.5-2.7 million] women). This resulted in an estimated 157 
million years (CR, 139-165 million) of life saved, a mean of 19.6 years for each 
beneficiary (111 million [CR, 97-117 million] for men, 46 million [CR, 42-48 
million] for women). During this time, estimated life expectancy at age 40 years 
increased 7.8 years for men and 5.4 years for women, of which tobacco control is 
associated with 2.3 years (CR, 1.8-2.5) (30% [CR, 23%-32%]) of the increase for 
men and 1.6 years (CR, 1.4-1.7) (29% [CR, 25%-32%]) for women.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Tobacco control was estimated to be associated with 
avoidance of 8 million premature deaths and an estimated extended mean life span 
of 19 to 20 years. Although tobacco control represents an important public 
health achievement, efforts must continue to reduce the effect of smoking on the 
nation's death toll.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.285112
PMCID: PMC4056770
PMID: 24399555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. J Oncol Pract. 2014 Mar;10(2):107-12. doi: 10.1200/JOP.2013.000902. Epub 2014 
Jan 7.

Medical oncology consultation and minimization of overtreatment in men with 
low-risk prostate cancer.

Aizer AA(1), Paly JJ, Michaelson MD, Rao SK, Nguyen PL, Kaplan ID, Niemierko A, 
Olumi AF, Efstathiou JA.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Radiation Oncology Program; Massachusetts General Hospital; Brigham 
and Women's Hospital-Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; and Beth Israel Deaconess 
Medical Center, Boston, MA.

Comment in
    J Oncol Pract. 2014 Mar;10(2):113-4.

PURPOSE: Specialist bias, in which specialists recommend the therapy that they 
are capable of delivering, is thought to influence the treatment of patients 
with localized prostate cancer and to contribute to overtreatment of men with 
limited life expectancy. Consequently, rates of active surveillance, the 
preferred management modality per the National Comprehensive Cancer Network 
(NCCN) for patients with low- and very low-risk disease and a life expectancy of 
less than 10 and less than 20 years, respectively, are low. We sought to 
determine whether consultation with a medical oncologist is associated with 
increased rates of active surveillance in men with low-risk prostate cancer.
METHODS: We identified 188 patients with low-risk prostate cancer undergoing 
active surveillance at one of three referral centers in Boston, MA in 2009. 
Multivariable logistic regression was used to determine whether consultation 
with a medical oncologist was associated with selection of active surveillance. 
The data were reanalyzed for patients with low- and very low-risk disease and a 
