endocrine disorder. Regular follow- ups of patients for endocrine complications, 
starting from early ages of patients, and initiation of appropriate treatments 
will elongate expectancy and quality of life.
CONFLICT OF INTEREST: None declared.

Publisher: Amaç: Orak hücre anemili (OHA)’li çocuk ve ergenlerde büyüme, 
puberte, tiroid, kemik ve karbonhidrat metabolizmazı bozuklularının sıklığı ve 
risk faktörlerinin belirlenmesi amaçlanmıştır. Yöntemler: 50 OHA’li Türk çocuk 
ve adolesanda vücut ölçümleri yanında boy, puberte, tiroid, karbonhidrat ve 
kemik metabolizması bozuklarını içeren endokrin sorunlar değerlendirildi. 
Cinsiyet, hastalık tipi, kan transfüzyonu, exchange ve atak sıklığı, ferritin 
düzeyi ile endokrin patolojiler arasında ilişki araştırıldı. Bulgular: Yaş 
ortalaması 13,1±2,9 yıl olan hastaların 12’sinde (%24) ağırlık ve boyu -2 
standart deviasyon (SD) altında ve 4’ünde (%8) malnütrisyon bulundu. Hastaların 
ortalama (±SD) kemik yaşı-takvim yaşı farkı -1,73±1,86 yıl idi. Vitamin D 
eksikliği dışında hastaların %50’sinde en az bir endokrin bozuklukluk vardı. 3 
hastada (%6) hipergonadotropik hipogonadizm, 1 kız hastada (%2) hipogonadotropik 
hipogonadizm, 3 erkek hastada (%8,5) ise yaşa göre testis volum küçüklüğü 
saptandı. 1 kız hastada (%2) büyüme hormonu eksikliği, 3 hastada (%6) 
hipotiroidi (1 santral, 2 primer hipotiroidi) tanısı konuldu. Vertebral düzeyde 
hastaların 5’inde (%11,1) osteopeni, 1’inde (%2,2) osteoporoz, femur boynu 
düzeyinde ise 5’inde (%11,1) osteopeni saptandı. Hastalarda en sık görülen 
endorin bozukluk vitamin D eksikliği idi. 25- Hidroksivitamin D %63,2 hastada 
eksik, %18,4 hastada yetersiz bulundu. Cinsiyet, hastalık tipi, kan transfüzyonu 
sıklığı, atak sıklığı, ferritin düzeyi ile endokrin patolojiler arasında ilişki 
saptanmaz iken, yaş arttıkça femur boynu kemik mineral yoğunluğu SDS azaldığı 
(r=-0,56; p<0,05), ağırlık ve/veya boyu -2 SD altında olanlarda D vitamini 
değerinin daha düşük olduğu saptandı (p<0,05). Sonuç: OHA’li çocuk ve ergenlerde 
endokrin organ bozuklukları sık görülür ve en sık endokrin sorun D vitamini 
eksikliğidir. Hastaların erken yaşlardan itibaren endokrin komplikasyonlar 
açısından düzenli olarak takip edilmesi ve uygun tedavilerin verilmesi yaşam 
süreleri ve yaşam kalitelerini artıracaktır.

DOI: 10.4274/tjh.2012.0001
PMCID: PMC3781645
PMID: 24385749


955. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 30;8(12):e83394. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083394. 
eCollection 2013.

Probing relevant molecules in modulating the neurite outgrowth of hippocampal 
neurons on substrates of different stiffness.

Chen WH(1), Cheng SJ(2), Tzen JT(1), Cheng CM(3), Lin YW(4).

Author information:
(1)Graduate Institute of Biotechnology, National Chung Hsing University, 
Taichung, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Life Science and Institute of Zoology, National Taiwan 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Institute of Nanoengineering and Microsystems, National Tsing Hua University, 
Hsinchu, Taiwan.
(4)Graduate Institute of Acupuncture Science, China Medical University, 
Taichung, Taiwan ; Acupuncture Research Center, China Medical University, 
Taichung, Taiwan.

Hippocampal neurons play a critical role in learning and memory; however, the 
effects of environmental mechanical forces on neurite extension and associated 
underlying mechanisms are largely unexplored, possibly due to difficulties in 
maintaining central nervous system neurons. Neuron adhesion, neurite length, and 
mechanotransduction are mainly influenced by the extracellular matrix (ECM), 
which is often associated with structural scaffolding. In this study, we 
investigated the relationship between substrate stiffness and hippocampal 
neurite outgrowth by controlling the ratios of polydimethylsiloxane (PDMS) base 
to curing agent to create substrates of varying stiffness. Immunostaining 
results demonstrated that hippocampal neurons have longer neurite elongation in 
35:1 PDMS substrate compared those grown on 15:1 PDMS, indicating that soft 
substrates provide a more optimal stiffness for hippocampal neurons. 
Additionally, we discovered that pPKCα expression was higher in the 15:1 and 
35:1 PDMS groups than in the poly-L-lysine-coated glass group. However, when we 
used a fibronectin (FN) coating, we found that pFAKy397 and pFAKy925 expression 
were higher in glass group than in the 15:1 or 35: 1 PDMS groups, but pPKCα and 
pERK1/2 expression were higher in the 35:1 PDMS group than in the glass group. 
These results support the hypothesis that environmental stiffness influences 
hippocampal neurite outgrowth and underlying signaling pathways.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083394
PMCID: PMC3875460
PMID: 24386192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


956. FEBS J. 2014 Feb;281(4):1256-66. doi: 10.1111/febs.12703. Epub 2014 Jan 23.

Functional characterization of DnaB helicase and its modulation by 
single-stranded DNA binding protein in Mycobacterium tuberculosis.

Zhang H(1), Zhang Z, Yang J, He ZG.

Author information:
(1)National Key Laboratory of Agricultural Microbiology, Center for Proteomics 
Research, College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong Agricultural 
University, Wuhan, China.

DnaB is important in the initiation and extension stages of DNA replication. 
Although DnaB has been studied in many bacterial species, its function in the 
devastating human pathogen Mycobacterium tuberculosis remains unclear. In this 
study, an intein-deleted form of M. tuberculosis DnaB (MtbDnaB) was cloned, 
expressed and characterized. MtbDnaB exhibited strong 5' to 3' helicase and 
ATPase activities, suggesting that MtbDnaB is a functional homolog of 
Escherichia coli DnaB. A physical interaction between MtbSSB (single-stranded 
binding protein of M. tuberculosis) and MtbDnaB was further identified in vivo 
and in vitro. The MtbSSB C-terminal fragment was found to have a critical 
function in this interaction. Moreover, the helicase activity of MtbDnaB was 
stimulated by MtbSSB at low concentrations and inhibited at high concentrations. 
An MtbSSB mutant with decreased binding affinity for ssDNA can stimulate the 
helicase activity of MtbDnaB over a wider concentration range than wild-type 
MtbSSB. These results suggest that MtbSSB assists in the loading of MtbDnaB on 
the DNA replication fork in M. tuberculosis.

© 2014 FEBS.

DOI: 10.1111/febs.12703
PMID: 24387047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Mod Rheumatol. 2003 Jun;13(2):153-9. doi: 10.3109/s10165-002-0215-4.

Indications of total ankle arthroplasty for rheumatoid arthritis: evaluation at 
5 years or more after the operation.

Shinomiya F(1), Okada M, Hamada Y, Fujimura T, Hamada D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and Rheumatology, Tokushima Kensei (CO-OP) 
Hospital , 4-9-1 Shimosuketou, Tokushima 770-0805 , Japan.

Abstract The postoperative results of total ankle arthroplasty (TAA) were 
surveyed, and the indications of TAA for rheumatoid arthritis (RA) were 
examined. We have performed TAA in properly selected patients with indication of 
ankle joint destruction due to RA. The subjects were 18 RA patients (20 joints) 
who underwent TAA between April 1988 and April 1996. Type-ND or type-TNK 
Bioceram was used without cement for possible revision of TAA. No destruction of 
large joints was found in 8 patients, and TAA was used as part of multiple 
arthroplasty in 10 patients. After the operation, decrease in or disappearance 
of joint pain was obtained, and range of motion and improved ability to walk 
were secured. The clinical results were superior to those obtained for 17 joints 
of 17 patients who underwent ankle arthrodesis during the same period. However, 
a radiolucent zone was observed an X-ray examination in every case, after 8 
years on average (range 5-12 years) after operation. Under present conditions, 
ankle arthrodesis should be used for younger patients. When no destruction of 
the hip or knee joint is found and the patient is 65 years of age or older, we 
believe TAA is indicated. In cases of multiple arthroplasty or with bilateral 
ankle joint destruction, TAA appears to be useful if patients are young, 
considering their better life expectancy and quality of life.

DOI: 10.3109/s10165-002-0215-4
PMID: 24387175


958. BMC Fam Pract. 2014 Jan 3;15:1. doi: 10.1186/1471-2296-15-1.

Self-rated health in multimorbid older general practice patients: a 
cross-sectional study in Germany.

Nützel A(1), Dahlhaus A, Fuchs A, Gensichen J, König HH, Riedel-Heller S, Maier 
W, Schäfer I, Schön G, Weyerer S, Wiese B, Scherer M, van den Bussche H, Bickel 
H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, Technical University of Munich, 
Munich, Germany. anna.nuetzel@lrz.tu-muenchen.de.

BACKGROUND: With increasing life expectancy the number of people affected by 
multimorbidity rises. Knowledge of factors associated with health-related 
quality of life in multimorbid people is scarce. We aimed to identify the 
factors that are associated with self-rated health (SRH) in aged multimorbid 
primary care patients.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study with 3,189 multimorbid primary care patients aged 
from 65 to 85 years recruited in 158 general practices in 8 study centers in 
Germany. Information about morbidity, risk factors, resources, functional status 
and socio-economic data were collected in face-to-face interviews. Factors 
associated with SRH were identified by multivariable regression analyses.
RESULTS: Depression, somatization, pain, limitations of instrumental activities 
(iADL), age, distress and Body Mass Index (BMI) were inversely related with SRH. 
Higher levels of physical activity, income and self-efficacy expectation had a 
positive association with SRH. The only chronic diseases remaining in the final 
model were Parkinson's disease and neuropathies. The final model accounted for 
35% variance of SRH. Separate analyses for men and women detected some 
similarities; however, gender specific variation existed for several factors.
CONCLUSION: In multimorbid patients symptoms and consequences of diseases such 
as pain and activity limitations, as well as depression, seem to be far stronger 
associated with SRH than the diseases themselves. High income and self-efficacy 
expectation are independently associated with better SRH and high BMI and age 
with low SRH.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2296-15-1
PMCID: PMC3923097
PMID: 24387712 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Am J Cardiol. 2014 Feb 15;113(4):676-81. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2013.11.013.
 Epub 2013 Nov 23.

Competing cardiovascular and noncardiovascular risks and longevity in the 
systolic hypertension in the elderly program.

Kostis WJ(1), Cabrera J(2), Messerli FH(3), Cheng JQ(4), Sedjro JE(4), Cosgrove 
NM(4), Swerdel JN(4), Deng Y(4), Davis BR(5), Kostis JB(6).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Division, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Statistics, Rutgers University, Piscataway, New Jersey; The 
Cardiovascular Institute, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New 
Brunswick, New Jersey.
(3)Division of Cardiology, St. Luke's-Roosevelt Hospital Center, Columbia 
University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York.
(4)The Cardiovascular Institute, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New 
Brunswick, New Jersey.
(5)University of Texas Health Science Center, Houston, Texas.
(6)The Cardiovascular Institute, Rutgers Robert Wood Johnson Medical School, New 
Brunswick, New Jersey. Electronic address: kostis@rwjms.rutgers.edu.

We examined the effect of chlorthalidone-based stepped care on the competing 
risks of cardiovascular (CV) versus non-CV death in the Systolic Hypertension in 
the Elderly Program (SHEP). Participants were randomly assigned to 
chlorthalidone-based stepped-care therapy (n = 2,365) or placebo (n = 2,371) for 
4.5 years, and all participants were advised to take active therapy thereafter. 
At the 22-year follow-up, the gain in life expectancy free from CV death in the 
active treatment group was 145 days (95% confidence interval [CI] 23 to 260, p = 
0.012). The gain in overall life expectancy was smaller (105 days, 95% CI -39 to 
242, p = 0.073) because of a 40-day (95% CI -87 to 161) decrease in survival 
from non-CV death. Compared with an age- and gender-matched cohort, participants 
had markedly higher overall life expectancy (Wilcoxon p = 0.00001) and greater 
chance of reaching the ages of 80 (81.3% vs 57.6%), 85 (58.1% vs 37.4%), 90 
(30.5% vs 22.0%), 95 (11.9% vs 8.8%), and 100 years (3.7% vs 2.8%). In 
conclusion, Systolic Hypertension in the Elderly Program participants had higher 
overall life expectancy than actuarial controls and those randomized to active 
therapy had longer life expectancy free from CV death but had a small increase 
in the competing risk of non-CV death.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2013.11.013
PMID: 24388619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. J Prosthet Dent. 2014 Apr;111(4):310-7. doi: 10.1016/j.prosdent.2013.09.020.
 Epub 2014 Jan 3.

Fatigue resistance of CAD/CAM complete crowns with a simplified cementation 
process.

Carvalho AO(1), Bruzi G(2), Giannini M(3), Magne P(4).

Author information:
(1)Graduate student, Department of Restorative Dentistry, Piracicaba School of 
Dentistry, Campinas State University, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil. Electronic 
address: aoc1981@hotmail.com.
(2)Graduate student, Department of Operative Dentistry, Federal University of 
Santa Catarina, Florianópolis, Santa Catarina, Brazil.
(3)Associate Professor, Department of Restorative Dentistry, Piracicaba School 
of Dentistry, Campinas State University, Piracicaba, SP, Brazil.
(4)Don and Sybil Harrington Professor of Esthetic Dentistry, Restorative 
Sciences, Ostrow School of Dentistry, University of Southern California, Los 
Angeles, Calif.

STATEMENT OF PROBLEM: Various computer-aided design and computer-aided 
manufacturing (CAD/CAM) materials are available to fabricate complete crowns. 
The type of material may have an effect on the longevity of these restorations.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the fatigue resistance, load-to-failure, failure mode, and 
antagonistic wear of complete molar computer-aided design and computer-aided 
manufacturing (CAD/CAM) crowns made of resin nanoceramic (RNC), feldspathic 
glass ceramic (FEL), or lithium disilicate (LD) placed with a simplified 
cementation process.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Forty-five molars received a standardized complete crown 
preparation and were restored with CAD/CAM crowns (1.5-mm thickness, n=15) made 
of RNC, FEL, and LD. After cementation, the restorations were submitted to 
cyclic isometric loading: 200 (×5000), 400, 600, 800, 1000, 1200, and 1400 N at 
a maximum of 30 000 cycles each. Surviving specimens were axially loaded until 
failure or to a maximum load of 4500 N. The specimens were analyzed as to 
failure mode: catastrophic, possibly repairable, and repairable. The groups were 
compared by using the life table survival analysis and the t test (α=.05).
RESULTS: All the specimens survived the fatigue process until the 800-N step. 
The survival rate of RNC was 80%, LD 93.3%, and FEL 6.6%. The survival of RNC 
and LD crowns did not differ from each other but exceeded that of FEL. 
Postfatigue load-to-failure test was 2500 N (FEL), 3122 N (RNC), and 3237 N 
(LD). No catastrophic failure occurred in the fatigue test, whereas all of the 
specimens in the load-to-failure test exhibited catastrophic fractures. Crowns 
made of RNC seemed to generate the least amount of antagonistic wear.
CONCLUSIONS: Posterior crowns made of RNC and LD were not statistically 
different, and both had significantly higher fatigue resistance than FEL. All 
materials survived beyond the normal range of masticatory forces, and all 
failures were possibly re-restorable except those in the load-to-failure test. 
RNC crowns seemed to cause less wear of the antagonist.

Copyright © 2014 Editorial Council for the Journal of Prosthetic Dentistry. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prosdent.2013.09.020
PMID: 24388720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Rev Epidemiol Sante Publique. 2014 Feb;62(1):53-63. doi: 
10.1016/j.respe.2013.09.002. Epub 2014 Jan 1.

[Causal analysis approaches in epidemiology].

[Article in French]

Dumas O(1), Siroux V(2), Le Moual N(3), Varraso R(3).

Author information:
(1)Inserm U1018, équipe épidémiologie respiratoire et environnementale, CESP 
centre de recherche en épidémiologie et santé des populations, 16, avenue 
Paul-Vaillant-Couturier, 94807 Villejuif, France; UMRS 1018, université Paris 
Sud 11, 94807 Villejuif, France. Electronic address: orianne.dumas@inserm.fr.
(2)Inserm U823, centre de recherche Albert-Bonniot, 38042 La Tronche, France; 
Université Joseph-Fourier, 38041 Grenoble, France.
(3)Inserm U1018, équipe épidémiologie respiratoire et environnementale, CESP 
centre de recherche en épidémiologie et santé des populations, 16, avenue 
Paul-Vaillant-Couturier, 94807 Villejuif, France; UMRS 1018, université Paris 
Sud 11, 94807 Villejuif, France.

Epidemiological research is mostly based on observational studies. Whether such 
studies can provide evidence of causation remains discussed. Several causal 
analysis methods have been developed in epidemiology. This paper aims at 
presenting an overview of these methods: graphical models, path analysis and its 
extensions, and models based on the counterfactual approach, with a special 
emphasis on marginal structural models. Graphical approaches have been developed 
to allow synthetic representations of supposed causal relationships in a given 
problem. They serve as qualitative support in the study of causal relationships. 
The sufficient-component cause model has been developed to deal with the issue 
of multicausality raised by the emergence of chronic multifactorial diseases. 
Directed acyclic graphs are mostly used as a visual tool to identify possible 
confounding sources in a study. Structural equations models, the main extension 
of path analysis, combine a system of equations and a path diagram, representing 
a set of possible causal relationships. They allow quantifying direct and 
indirect effects in a general model in which several relationships can be tested 
simultaneously. Dynamic path analysis further takes into account the role of 
time. The counterfactual approach defines causality by comparing the observed 
event and the counterfactual event (the event that would have been observed if, 
contrary to the fact, the subject had received a different exposure than the one 
he actually received). This theoretical approach has shown limits of traditional 
methods to address some causality questions. In particular, in longitudinal 
studies, when there is time-varying confounding, classical methods (regressions) 
may be biased. Marginal structural models have been developed to address this 
issue. In conclusion, "causal models", though they were developed partly 
independently, are based on equivalent logical foundations. A crucial step in 
the application of these models is the formulation of causal hypotheses, which 
will be a basis for all methodological choices. Beyond this step, statistical 
analysis tools recently developed offer new possibilities to delineate complex 
relationships, in particular in life course epidemiology.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.respe.2013.09.002
PMID: 24388738 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Nicotine Tob Res. 2014 Jun;16(6):725-32. doi: 10.1093/ntr/ntt218. Epub 2014
Jan  4.

Tobacco control policies specified according to socioeconomic status: health 
disparities and cost-effectiveness.

Over EA(1), Feenstra TL, Hoogenveen RT, Droomers M, Uiters E, van Gelder BM.

Author information:
(1)Center for Nutrition, Prevention, and Health Services, National Institute for 
Public Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands;

Comment in
    Nicotine Tob Res. 2014 Jul;16(7):1030.
    Nicotine Tob Res. 2014 Jul;16(7):1031-2.

INTRODUCTION: Little is known about the cost-effectiveness of tobacco control 
policy for different socioeconomic status (SES) groups. We aimed to evaluate 
SES-specific cost-effectiveness ratios of policies with known favorable effect 
in low-SES groups: a tobacco tax increase and reimbursement of cessation 
support.
METHODS: A computer model of the adult population specified by smoking behavior 
(never/current/former smoker), age, gender, and SES simulated policy scenarios 
reflecting the implementation of a €0.22 tobacco tax increase or full 
reimbursement of cessation support, which were compared. Relating differences in 
costs to quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained generated cost-effectiveness 
ratios for each SES group.
RESULTS: In a cohort of 11 million people, the tobacco tax increase resulted in 
27,000 additional quitters after 5 years, who were proportionally divided among 
the SES groups. Reimbursement led to 59,000 additional quitters, with relatively 
more quitters in higher-SES groups. The number of QALYs gained were 3,400-6,200 
among the various SES groups for the tax increase and 6,300-14,000 for the 
reimbursement scenario. For both interventions, favorability of the 
cost-effectiveness ratios increased with SES: costs per QALY decreased from 
€6,100 to €4,500 for the tax increase and from €21,000 to €11,000 for 
reimbursement.
CONCLUSIONS: The reimbursement policy produced the greatest overall health gain. 
Surprisingly, neither tax increase nor reimbursement reduced health disparities. 
Differences in use were too small to compensate for improved health gains per 
quitter among higher-SES groups. Both policies qualified as cost-effective 
overall, with more favorable cost-effectiveness ratios for high-SES than for 
low-SES groups.

DOI: 10.1093/ntr/ntt218
PMID: 24388862 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. JMIR Res Protoc. 2014 Jan 3;3(1):e2. doi: 10.2196/resprot.2776.

Examining participant engagement in an information technology-based physical 
activity and nutrition intervention for men: the manup randomized controlled 
trial.

Short CE(1), Vandelanotte C, Dixon MW, Rosenkranz R, Caperchione C, Hooker C, 
Karunanithi M, Kolt GS, Maeder A, Ding H, Taylor P, Duncan MJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for Physical Activity Studies, Institute for Health and Social Science 
Research, Central Queensland University, Rockhampton, Australia. 
c.short@cqu.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Males experience a shorter life expectancy and higher rates of 
chronic diseases compared to their female counterparts. To improve health 
outcomes among males, interventions specifically developed for males that target 
their health behaviors are needed. Information technology (IT)-based 
interventions may be a promising intervention approach in this population group, 
however, little is known about how to maximize engagement and retention in 
Web-based programs.
OBJECTIVE: The current study sought to explore attributes hypothesized to 
influence user engagement among a subsample of participants from the ManUp 
study, a randomized controlled trial testing the efficacy of an interactive 
Web-based intervention for promoting physical activity and nutrition among 
middle-aged males.
METHODS: Semistructured interviews were conducted and audiotaped with 20 of the 
ManUp participants. Interview questions were based on a conceptual model of 
engagement and centered on why participants took part in the study, what they 
liked and did not like about the intervention they received, and how they think 
the intervention could be improved. Interview recordings were transcribed and 
coded into themes.
RESULTS: There were five themes that were identified in the study. These themes 
were: (1) users' motives, (2) users' desired outcomes, (3) users' positive 
experiences, (4) users' negative emotions, and (5) attributes desired by user.
CONCLUSIONS: There is little research in the field that has explored user 
experiences in human-computer interactions and how such experiences may relate 
to engagement, especially among males. Although not conclusive, the current 
study provides some insight into what personal attributes of middle-aged males 
(such as their key motives and goals for participating) and attributes of the 
intervention materials (such as usability, control, and interactivity) may 
impact on user engagement in this group. These findings will be helpful for 
informing the design and implementation of future health behavior interventions 
for males.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry: 
ACTRN12611000081910; 
https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?ACTRN=12611000081910 
(Archived by WebCite at http://www.webcitation.org/6M4lBlvCA).

DOI: 10.2196/resprot.2776
PMCID: PMC3913923
PMID: 24389361

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: None declared.


964. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 1989 Apr;4(2):143-62. doi: 10.1007/BF00116392.

Ageing and health in Japan.

Maeda D(1), Teshima K, Sugisawa H, Asakura YS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Japan.

The paper identifies several specific factors related to health in old age which 
in Japan appear to be different from other developed countries. These factors 
are explored in the context of Japanese culture and social change. In the 
context of the high Japanese level of longevity, the paper presents data on life 
span and improvements of average life expectancy and the major causes of death 
among middle-aged and older persons, emphasizing international comparisons and 
traditional culture. Attention is drawn to the high proportion of bedfast 
elderly people and the effects of filial piety. Differences in the prevalence of 
dementia and suicide in old age are also discussed.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00116392
PMID: 24389990


965. Eur J Health Econ. 2015 Mar;16(2):133-9. doi: 10.1007/s10198-013-0558-0.
Epub  2014 Jan 4.

Output correlations in probabilistic models with multiple alternatives.

Naveršnik K(1).

Author information:
(1)Lek Pharmaceuticals d.d., Sandoz Development Center, Verovskova 57, 1000, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia, klemen.naversnik@gmail.com.

A comprehensive cost-effectiveness decision model will often go beyond a 
one-to-one comparison and will include a number of competing alternatives. Only 
a simultaneous assessment of all relevant treatment alternatives avoids 
comparing average cost-effectiveness ratios and allows a truly incremental 
analysis. Two issues arise if the analysis is probabilistic, namely, the 
occurrence of output correlations and difficulty in presenting the results. I 
have examined the role of output correlations using a screening model with eight 
alternatives and have shown that specifically cost-cost and quality-adjusted 
life years (QALY)-QALY correlations between alternatives have a major impact on 
decision uncertainty, as measured by the probability of the cost-effectiveness 
and expected value of perfect information. In particular, the latter strongly 
depends on between-alternative output correlations. This analysis shows that 
both the expected value of perfect information plots and acceptability 
curves/frontiers are sensitive to output correlations and thus appropriate for 
presentation of multiple alternatives. To avoid confusing statistical 
significance and economic importance I propose that acceptability curves be 
augmented by incremental net-benefit density plots at a given willingness to pay 
threshold.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-013-0558-0
PMID: 24390145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Am J Clin Oncol. 2016 Feb;39(1):55-63. doi: 10.1097/COC.0000000000000017.

Clinical and Demographic Factors Associated With Receipt of Non 
Guideline-concordant Initial Therapy for Nonmetastatic Prostate Cancer.

Hamilton AS(1), Fleming ST, Wang D, Goodman M, Wu XC, Owen JB, Lo M, Ho A, 
Anderson RT, Thompson T.

Author information:
(1)*Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 
†University of Kentucky College of Public Health, Lexington, KY ‡Department of 
Radiation Oncology, Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, WI §Department of 
Epidemiology, Emory University School of Public Health **Division of Cancer 
Prevention and Control, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA 
∥Epidemiology Program, School of Public Health, LSU Health Sciences Center, New 
Orleans, LA ¶American College of Radiology, Clinical Research Center, 
Philadelphia #Department of Public Health Sciences, Penn State College of 
Medicine, Hershey, PA.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the extent to which initial therapy for nonmetastatic 
prostate cancer was concordant with nationally recognized guidelines using 
supplemented cancer registry data and what factors were associated with receipt 
of nonguideline-concordant care.
METHODS: Initial therapy for 8229 nonmetastatic prostate cancer cases diagnosed 
in 2004 from cancer registries in 7 states was abstracted as part of the Centers 
for Disease Control's Patterns of Care Breast and Prostate Cancer study 
conducted during 2007 to 2009. The National Comprehensive Cancer Network 
clinical practice guidelines version 1.2002 was used as the standard of care 
based on recurrence risk group and life expectancy (LE). A multivariable model 
was used to determine risk factors associated with receipt of 
nonguideline-concordant care.
RESULTS: Nearly 80% with nonmetastatic prostate cancer received 
guideline-concordant care for initial therapy. Receipt of 
nonguideline-concordant care (including receiving either less aggressive therapy 
or more aggressive therapy than indicated) was related to older age, African 
American race/ethnicity, being unmarried, rural residence, and especially to 
being in the high recurrence risk group where receiving less aggressive therapy 
than indicated occurred more often than receiving more aggressive therapy 
(adjusted OR=4.2; 95% CL, 3.5-5.2 vs. low-risk group). Compared with life table 
estimates adjusted for comorbidity, physicians tended to underestimate LE.
CONCLUSIONS: Receipt of less aggressive therapy than indicated among high-risk 
group men with >5-year LE based on life table estimates adjusted for comorbidity 
was a concern. Physicians may tend to underestimate 5-year survival among this 
group and should be alerted to the importance of recommending aggressive therapy 
when warranted. However, based on more recent guidelines, among those with 
low-risk disease, the proportion considered to be receiving less aggressive 
therapy than indicated may now be lower because active surveillance is now 
considered appropriate.

DOI: 10.1097/COC.0000000000000017
PMCID: PMC4514560
PMID: 24390274 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


967. Europace. 2014 May;16(5):652-9. doi: 10.1093/europace/eut380. Epub 2014 Jan
2.

Cost-effectiveness of cryoballoon ablation for the management of paroxysmal 
atrial fibrillation.

Reynolds MR(1), Lamotte M, Todd D, Khaykin Y, Eggington S, Tsintzos S, Klein G.

Author information:
(1)Lahey Clinic Medical Center, 41 Mall Road, Burlington, MA 01805, USA.

AIMS: Cryoballoon ablation is an established treatment option for the management 
of patients with atrial fibrillation. We sought to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of cryoablation, compared with second-line anti-arrhythmic 
drug (AAD) therapy in patients with paroxysmal atrial fibrillation (PAF), from a 
UK payer perspective.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We developed a state-transition (Markov) model to calculate 
the total costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) associated with 
cryoablation and AAD therapy in patients with PAF. A 5-year horizon was used for 
the base-case. Data from a recent study of cryoballoon ablation in patients with 
PAF were used to model short-term health outcomes and costs, together with 
longer term external evidence to populate subsequent time periods. Total 
discounted costs were £21 162 and £17 627 for the cryoballoon ablation and AAD 
arms, respectively. Total QALYs of 3.565 and 3.404 therefore led to an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £21 957 per QALY gained. Sensitivity 
analysis suggested that the key drivers of the results were the model time 
horizon, the costs of follow-up care in patients with recurrent AF, and the 
costs of the ablation procedure.
CONCLUSION: Cryoballoon ablation provides increased quality-adjusted life 
expectancy compared with AAD at reasonable additional cost, representing good 
value for money in patients with PAF.

DOI: 10.1093/europace/eut380
PMID: 24390386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. J Epidemiol. 2014;24(2):117-24. doi: 10.2188/jea.je20130059. Epub 2013 Dec
28.

Relative importance of demographic, socioeconomic and health factors on life 
expectancy in low- and lower-middle-income countries.

Mondal MN(1), Shitan M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Computational Statistics and Operations Research, Institute for 
Mathematical Research, University Putra Malaysia.

Comment in
    J Epidemiol. 2015;25(6):459.
    J Epidemiol. 2015;25(6):460.

BACKGROUND: We attempted to identify the pathways by which demographic changes, 
socioeconomic inequalities, and availability of health factors influence life 
expectancy in low- and lower-middle-income countries.
METHODS: Data for 91 countries were obtained from United Nations agencies. The 
response variable was life expectancy, and the determinant factors were 
demographic events (total fertility rate and adolescent fertility rate), 
socioeconomic status (mean years of schooling and gross national income per 
capita), and health factors (physician density and human immunodeficiency virus 
[HIV] prevalence rate). Path analysis was used to determine the direct, 
indirect, and total effects of these factors on life expectancy.
RESULTS: All determinant factors were significantly correlated with life 
expectancy. Mean years of schooling, total fertility rate, and HIV prevalence 
rate had significant direct and indirect effects on life expectancy. The total 
effect of higher physician density was to increase life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: We identified several direct and indirect pathways that predict 
life expectancy. The findings suggest that policies should concentrate on 
improving reproductive decisions, increasing education, and reducing HIV 
transmission. In addition, special attention should be paid to the emerging need 
to increase life expectancy by increasing physician density.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.je20130059
PMCID: PMC3956691
PMID: 24390415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. J Cross Cult Gerontol. 1991 Oct;6(4):413-29. doi: 10.1007/BF00120069.

Labor force participation at older ages in the Western Pacific: A microeconomic 
analysis.

Agree EM(1), Clark RL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Center for Demographic Studies, Duke University, 
2117 Campus Drive, 27706, Durham, NC, U.S.A..

Retirement has become a very important stage of life for persons in developed 
countries. Life expectancy for those over age 60 has increased markedly. Rising 
real income and the institution of broad based social security systems have 
encouraged older workers to leave the labor force at younger ages. p]Reductions 
in older age mortality have also affected the less developed regions. Increases 
in the number of older persons, coupled with continuing high fertility, have 
increased the size of the working age population through both large entry 
cohorts and longevity of current workers. The capacity of the economy to absorb 
this growth is severely limited. As a result, labor force decisions by older 
individuals will be of increasing importance.This study provides new evidence on 
labor force decisions in four developing countries in the Western Pacific: Fiji, 
the Republic of Korea, Malaysia, and the Philippines. A uniform survey sponsored 
by the World Health Organization in the four countries of persons aged 60 and 
over is employed to estimate the determinants of work decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00120069
PMID: 24390608


970. Pharmacotherapy. 2014 Jun;34(6):537-44. doi: 10.1002/phar.1393. Epub 2014
Jan 4.

Comparative cost-effectiveness of alternative empiric antimicrobial treatment 
options for suspected enterococcal bacteremia.

McComb MN(1), Collins CD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Services, University of Michigan Hospitals and Health 
Centers, Ann Arbor, Michigan.

OBJECTIVES: Enterococcus species are the fourth leading cause of bacteremia. 
Resistance rates are rising and delays in appropriate initial antimicrobial 
therapy have been associated with increased mortality. Empiric treatment of 
patients with suspected enterococcal bacteremia varies and significant cost 
differences exist between alternatives. The objective of this study was to 
determine the cost-effectiveness of various empiric treatments for patients with 
suspected enterococcal bacteremia.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was constructed from the hospital perspective 
to assess the cost-effectiveness of alternative empiric treatment options for 
enterococcal bacteremia, including antimicrobials active against 
vancomycin-resistant enterococcus (VRE). The model was populated from available 
literature sources and included resistance patterns, associated mortality with 
early versus delayed effective treatment, and the cost of treatment. Univariate 
sensitivity analyses tested the robustness of the model to determine the degree 
to which model uncertainties influenced outcomes. We also undertook a 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis varying parameters in 10,000 Monte Carlo 
simulations.
MAIN RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $791 and 
$749/quality-adjusted-life-year utilizing empiric daptomycin and linezolid, 
respectively. The model also predicted an incremental cost/life saved of $11,703 
by utilizing empiric daptomycin and $11,084 with linezolid utilization. 
Ampicillin was dominated (i.e., less effective and associated with increased 
costs) by both VRE-active agents and vancomycin. A probabilistic Monte Carlo 
sensitivity analysis showed that an agent with VRE activity had a 100% chance of 
being cost-effective at traditionally used willingness-to-pay thresholds. The 
decision-analytic model was sensitive to variations in E. faecium mortality and 
short-term postdischarge survival rates.
CONCLUSION: Results of our model showed that empiric utilization of an 
antimicrobial with activity against VRE may be a cost-effective option for the 
treatment of suspected enterococcal bacteremia when compared with vancomycin or 
β-lactam therapy.

© 2014 Pharmacotherapy Publications, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/phar.1393
PMID: 24390863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. J Transcult Nurs. 2014 Apr;25(2):122-8. doi: 10.1177/1043659613515722. Epub
2014  Jan 3.

A humanizing gaze for transcultural nursing research will tell the story of 
health disparities.

Clark L(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Utah College of Nursing, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

If we limit our gaze to epidemiologic or medicalized discourse about health 
disparities, we risk losing sight of the person living in a health disparity 
context. We may erase or make invisible the person from a health disparity 
group; pathologize difference at the population level and, by extension, 
stigmatize the individual; eliminate the upstream context or causes of 
disparities; and obscure the human story. For the continued viability of our 
ideas about health disparities, it is crucial that we maintain cognitive 
flexibility. The unconscious bedrock of trusted ideas about "culture" and 
"disparities" can be enriched through a humanized view of the person in the 
health disparities story. Transcultural nursing research complements the 
biomedical gaze, placing the patient at the center of a cultural context where 
health problems are embodied, place based, and socially constituted. Humanizing 
our practice depends on dialogues with those who experience health disparity 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1177/1043659613515722
PMID: 24391122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Mar Biol. 2011;158(3):639-648. doi: 10.1007/s00227-010-1588-0. Epub 2010 Dec
11.

Ontogenetic habitat shift, population growth, and burrowing behavior of the 
Indo-Pacific beach star, Archaster typicus (Echinodermata; Asteroidea).

Bos AR(1), Gumanao GS(2), van Katwijk MM(3), Mueller B(4), Saceda MM(2), Tejada 
RL(2).

Author information:
(1)Research, Extension and Production Office, Davao del Norte State College, New 
Visayas, 8105 Panabo City, The Philippines ; German Development Service-DED, 
11th Floor PDCP Bank Center Building, VA Rufino Corner LP Leviste Streets, 
Salcedo Village, 1227 Makati, The Philippines ; Department of Marine Zoology, 
Netherlands Centre for Biodiversity Naturalis, P.O. Box 9517, 2300 RA Leiden, 
The Netherlands.
(2)Research, Extension and Production Office, Davao del Norte State College, New 
Visayas, 8105 Panabo City, The Philippines.
(3)Department of Environmental Science, Radboud University, P.O. Box 9010, 6500 
GL Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(4)Research, Extension and Production Office, Davao del Norte State College, New 
Visayas, 8105 Panabo City, The Philippines ; German Development Service-DED, 
11th Floor PDCP Bank Center Building, VA Rufino Corner LP Leviste Streets, 
Salcedo Village, 1227 Makati, The Philippines.

Archaster typicus, a common sea star in Indo-Pacific regions, has been a target 
for the ornamental trade, even though little is known about its population 
biology. Spatial and temporal patterns of abundance and size structure of A. 
typicus were studied in the Davao Gulf, the Philippines (125°42.7'E, 7°0.6'N), 
from February 2008 to December 2009. Specimens of A. typicus were associated 
with intertidal mangrove prop roots, seagrass meadows, sandy beaches, and 
shoals. Among prop roots, specimens were significantly smaller and had highest 
densities (131 ind. m-2) between November and March. High organic matter in 
sediment and a relatively low predation rate seemed to support juvenile life 
among mangroves. Size and density analyses provided evidence that individuals 
gradually move to seagrass, sandy habitats, and shoals as they age. Specimens 
were significantly larger at a shoal (maximum radius R = 81 mm). New recruits 
were found between August and November in both 2008 and 2009. Timing of 
recruitment and population size frequencies confirmed a seasonal reproductive 
cycle. Juveniles had relatively high growth rates (2-7 mm month-1) and may reach 
an R of 20-25 mm after 1 year. Growth rates of larger specimens (R > 30 mm) were 
generally <2 mm month-1. The activity pattern of A. typicus was related to the 
tidal phase and not to time of day: Specimens moved over the sediment surface 
during low tides and were burrowed during high tides possibly avoiding 
predation. This is one of the first studies to document an ontogenetic habitat 
shift for sea stars and provides new biological information as a basis for 
management of harvested A. typicus populations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00227-010-1588-0
PMCID: PMC3873073
PMID: 24391259


973. Front Cell Neurosci. 2013 Dec 19;7:265. doi: 10.3389/fncel.2013.00265.

The involvement of microRNAs in neurodegenerative diseases.

Maciotta S(1), Meregalli M(2), Torrente Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Stem Cell Laboratory, Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, 
Centro Dino Ferrari, Università degli Studi di Milano, Fondazione IRCCS Cà 
Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico Milan, Italy ; Diabetes Research Institute, 
University of Miami Miller School of Medicine Miami, FL, USA.
(2)Stem Cell Laboratory, Department of Pathophysiology and Transplantation, 
Centro Dino Ferrari, Università degli Studi di Milano, Fondazione IRCCS Cà 
Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico Milan, Italy.

Neurodegenerative diseases (NDDs) originate from a loss of neurons in the 
central nervous system and are severely debilitating. The incidence of NDDs 
increases with age, and they are expected to become more common due to extended 
life expectancy. Because no cure is available, these diseases have become a 
major challenge in neurobiology. The increasing relevance of microRNAs (miRNAs) 
in biology has prompted investigation into their possible involvement in 
neurodegeneration in order to identify new therapeutic targets. The idea of 
using miRNAs as therapeutic targets is not far from realization, but important 
issues need to be addressed before moving into the clinics. Here, we review what 
is known about the involvement of miRNAs in the pathogenesis of NDDs. We also 
report the miRNA expression levels in peripheral tissues of patients affected by 
NDDs in order to evaluate their application as biomarkers of disease. Finally, 
discrepancies, innovations, and the effectiveness of collected data will be 
elucidated and discussed.

DOI: 10.3389/fncel.2013.00265
PMCID: PMC3867638
PMID: 24391543


974. Front Hum Neurosci. 2013 Dec 19;7:835. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00835.

Keystroke dynamics in the pre-touchscreen era.

Ahmad N(1), Szymkowiak A(2), Campbell PA(1).

Author information:
(1)CICaSS Group (Concepts & Innovation in Cavitation and Sonoptic Sciences), 
Carnegie Physics Laboratory, University of Dundee Dundee, UK ; Division of 
Molecular Medicine, College of Life Sciences, University of Dundee Dundee, UK.
(2)School of Science, Engineering and Technology, University of Abertay Dundee 
Dundee, UK.

Biometric authentication seeks to measure an individual's unique physiological 
attributes for the purpose of identity verification. Conventionally, this task 
has been realized via analyses of fingerprints or signature iris patterns. 
However, whilst such methods effectively offer a superior security protocol 
compared with password-based approaches for example, their substantial 
infrastructure costs, and intrusive nature, make them undesirable and indeed 
impractical for many scenarios. An alternative approach seeks to develop 
similarly robust screening protocols through analysis of typing patterns, 
formally known as keystroke dynamics. Here, keystroke analysis methodologies can 
utilize multiple variables, and a range of mathematical techniques, in order to 
extract individuals' typing signatures. Such variables may include measurement 
of the period between key presses, and/or releases, or even key-strike 
pressures. Statistical methods, neural networks, and fuzzy logic have often 
formed the basis for quantitative analysis on the data gathered, typically from 
conventional computer keyboards. Extension to more recent technologies such as 
numerical keypads and touch-screen devices is in its infancy, but obviously 
important as such devices grow in popularity. Here, we review the state of 
knowledge pertaining to authentication via conventional keyboards with a view 
toward indicating how this platform of knowledge can be exploited and extended 
into the newly emergent type-based technological contexts.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2013.00835
PMCID: PMC3867681
PMID: 24391568


975. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 2;9(1):e84653. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084653.
eCollection  2014.

The 3D structure of the apical complex and association with the flagellar 
apparatus revealed by serial TEM tomography in Psammosa pacifica, a distant 
relative of the Apicomplexa.

Okamoto N(1), Keeling PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)The Department of Botany, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

The apical complex is one of the defining features of apicomplexan parasites, 
including the malaria parasite Plasmodium, where it mediates host penetration 
and invasion. The apical complex is also known in a few related lineages, 
including several non-parasitic heterotrophs, where it mediates feeding 
behaviour. The origin of the apical complex is unclear, and one reason for this 
is that in apicomplexans it exists in only part of the life cycle, and never 
simultaneously with other major cytoskeletal structures like flagella and basal 
bodies. Here, we used conventional TEM and serial TEM tomography to reconstruct 
the three dimensional structure of the apical complex in Psammosa pacifica, a 
predatory relative of apicomplexans and dinoflagellates that retains the 
archetype apical complex and the flagellar apparatus simultaneously. The P. 
pacifica apical complex is associated with the gullet and consists of the 
pseudoconoid, micronemes, and electron dense vesicles. The pseudoconoid is a 
convex sheet consisting of eight short microtubules, plus a band made up of 
microtubules that originate from the flagellar apparatus. The flagellar 
apparatus consists of three microtubular roots. One of the microtubular roots 
attached to the posterior basal body is connected to bypassing microtubular 
strands, which are themselves connected to the extension of the pseudoconoid. 
These complex connections where the apical complex is an extension of the 
flagellar apparatus, reflect the ancestral state of both, dating back to the 
common ancestor of apicaomplexans and dinoflagellates.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084653
PMCID: PMC3879320
PMID: 24392150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


976. World J Transplant. 2013 Dec 24;3(4):78-90. doi: 10.5500/wjt.v3.i4.78.

Exercise after heart transplantation: An overview.

Nytrøen K(1), Gullestad L(1).

Author information:
(1)Kari Nytrøen, Lars Gullestad, Department of Cardiology, Oslo University 
Hospital, Rikshospitalet, 0424 Oslo, Norway.

While life expectancy is greatly improved after a heart transplant, survival is 
still limited, and compared to the general population, the exercise capacity and 
health-related quality of life of heart transplant recipients are reduced. 
Increased exercise capacity is associated with a better prognosis. However, 
although several studies have documented positive effects of exercise after 
heart transplantation (HTx), little is known about the type, frequency and 
intensity of exercise that provides the greatest health benefits. Moreover, the 
long-term effects of exercise on co-morbidities and survival are also unclear. 
Exercise restrictions apply to patients with a denervated heart, and for 
decades, it was believed that the transplanted heart remained denervated. This 
has since been largely disproved, but despite the new knowledge, the exercise 
restrictions have largely remained, and up-to-date guidelines on exercise 
prescription after HTx do not exist. High-intensity, interval based aerobic 
exercise has repeatedly been documented to have superior positive effects and 
health benefits compared to moderate exercise. This applies to both healthy 
subjects as well as in several patient groups, such as patients with metabolic 
syndrome, coronary artery disease or heart failure. However, whether the effects 
of this type of exercise are also applicable to heart transplant populations has 
not yet been fully established. The purpose of this article is to give an 
overview of the current knowledge about the exercise capacity and effect of 
exercise among heart transplant recipients and to discuss future exercise 
strategies.

DOI: 10.5500/wjt.v3.i4.78
PMCID: PMC3879527
PMID: 24392312


977. Eur J Cancer Care (Engl). 2014 Nov;23(6):779-85. doi: 10.1111/ecc.12173.
Epub  2014 Jan 7.

Economic evaluation of treatment for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia in childhood.

Rae C(1), Furlong W, Jankovic M, Moghrabi A, Naqvi A, Sala A, Samson Y, DePauw 
S, Feeny D, Barr R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics and Policy Analysis, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario, Canada; Department of Clinical Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada.

Berlin-Frankfurt-Munster (BFM) and Dana-Farber Cancer Institute (DFCI) 
consortia's treatment strategies for acute lymphoblastic leukaemia (ALL) in 
children are widely used. We compared the health effects and monetary costs of 
hospital treatments for these two strategies. Parents of children treated at 
seven centres in Canada, Italy and the USA completed health-related quality of 
life (HRQL) assessments during four active treatment phases and at 2 years after 
treatment. Mean HRQL scores were used to calculate quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) for a period of 5 years following diagnosis. Total costs of treatment 
were determined from variables in administrative databases in a universally 
accessible and publicly funded healthcare system. Valid HRQL assessments 
(n = 1200) were collected for 307 BFM and 317 DFCI patients, with costs measured 
for 66 BFM and 28 DFCI patients. QALYs per patient were <1.0% greater for BFM 
than DFCI. Median HRQL scores revealed no difference in QALYs. The difference in 
mean total costs for BFM (US$88 480) and DFCI (US$93 026) was not significant 
(P = 0.600). This study provides no evidence of superiority for one treatment 
strategy over the other. Current BFM or DFCI strategies should represent 
conventional management for the next economic evaluation of treatments for ALL 
in childhood.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ecc.12173
PMID: 24393150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


