PMID: 24283830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Nov;17(54):1-190. doi: 10.3310/hta17540.

Lithium or an atypical antipsychotic drug in the management of 
treatment-resistant depression: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Edwards SJ(1), Hamilton V, Nherera L, Trevor N.

Author information:
(1)BMJ Technology Assessment Group (BMJ-TAG), London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Patients with treatment-resistant depression (TRD) are those with 
major depressive disorder that has not responded adequately to treatment. The 
causes of depression are not fully understood, although there is evidence to 
suggest that depression is a complex interaction among biological, genetic, 
psychosocial and environmental factors. Strategies available for the treatment 
of patients with TRD include pharmacological, non-pharmacological, and 
psychological and psychosocial interventions. Pharmacological treatment options 
include switching to a different antidepressant, the addition of another 
antidepressant of a different class, or use of an augmenting agent, such as 
anticonvulsants, lithium or atypical antipsychotics (AAPs). However, there is 
limited evidence available on the effectiveness of these strategies in the 
treatment of TRD.
OBJECTIVES: To estimate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
augmentation of selective serotonin reuptake inhibitor (SSRI) antidepressant 
therapy with either lithium or an AAP drug in the management of people with 
treatment-resistant unipolar depression, defined as failure to respond to two or 
more antidepressant drugs in their current episode of depression.
DATA SOURCES: Databases searched were Cochrane Central Register of Controlled 
Trials (CENTRAL), EMBASE, MEDLINE, PsycINFO and NHS Economic Evaluation Database 
(NHS EED). All databases were searched from inception to August 2011. Additional 
data were obtained from manufacturers.
REVIEW METHODS: Systematic reviews of studies evaluating clinical effectiveness, 
economic analyses and quality of life (QoL) were executed. Quality assessment 
according to predefined criteria was undertaken independently by two reviewers. 
Pairwise meta-analyses and mixed-treatment comparisons (MTCs) using both fixed- 
and random-effects models were undertaken based on intention-to-treat analyses. 
A probabilistic de novo mathematical model was developed to synthesise the 
available data on costs and clinical outcomes from the UK NHS perspective over a 
1-year time horizon (8 weeks of acute treatment captured by a decision tree and 
10 months of maintenance treatment captured by a Markov model).
RESULTS: Twelve randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were identified in the 
review of clinical effectiveness literature; 10 considered SSRI  +  AAP compared 
with SSRI  +  placebo/no treatment, one considered SSRI  +  AAP compared with 
SSRI  +  lithium and one considered SSRI  +  lithium compared with 
SSRI  +  placebo. The RCTs included in the primary analyses used fluoxetine as 
the background SSRI and olanzapine as the AAP. Results of the MTC showed a 
non-significant trend in favour of lithium augmentation for response [lithium a 
priori odds ratio (OR) 1.29; 95% credible interval (CrI) 0.11 to 5.32; lithium 
post hoc OR 4.15; 95% CrI 0.25 to 20.34 (the trial informing the comparison with 
lithium reported response using two different definitions)], mean change in 
Montgomery-Åsberg Depression Rating Scale score from baseline (mean difference 
-  1.47, 95% CrI -  9.10 to 6.41) and all-cause withdrawals (OR 0.74, 95% CrI 
0.10 to 2.66). Four economic evaluations (none directly addressing the review 
question) and 17 studies that reported on QoL were identified and summarised in 
narrative reviews. The results of the de novo modelling indicate that 
augmentation of SSRI with lithium dominates augmentation of an SSRI with AAP 
(i.e. it resulted in cost savings of £905 per person per year and generated more 
health benefits, estimated to be 0.03 quality-adjusted life-years). However, 
sensitivity analyses showed that the model was highly sensitive to changes in 
acute treatment efficacy (response and remission) or discontinuation. The model 
was not sensitive to changes in other parameters.
LIMITATIONS: In patients with TRD, there is a lack of direct evidence comparing 
the clinical effectiveness of augmenting an SSRI with an AAP compared with 
augmenting with lithium. RCTs were identified which facilitated comparison of 
adding AAP with adding lithium via a MTC. However, variations in the definitions 
of response implemented in the RCTs, together with differences in patient 
baseline characteristics across RCTs, introduce bias into the analysis. The 
direction and extent of the bias is uncertain.
CONCLUSIONS: Augmentation of SSRIs with lithium or AAP is likely to be 
beneficial in people with TRD. Clinical evaluation based on the limited evidence 
identified in this research indicates no statistically significant difference 
between the two augmentation strategies. Cost-effectiveness analyses suggest 
that augmentation with lithium is less expensive and more effective than 
augmentation with AAP. However, the uncertainty in the clinical estimates of 
discontinuation and treatment response is reflected in the model results. A RCT 
comparing the two augmentation strategies, reporting relevant outcomes, 
including QoL, is needed.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42011001464.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17540
PMCID: PMC4781298
PMID: 24284258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2013 Oct 25;10(11):5266-83. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph10115266.

Automatic assessment of socioeconomic impact on cardiac rehabilitation.

Calvo M(1), Subirats L, Ceccaroni L, Maroto JM, de Pablo C, Miralles F.

Author information:
(1)Cardiac Electrophysiology Unit, Hospital Clínic Universitari de Barcelona, 
Villarroel, 170, Barcelona 08036, Spain. calvo@clinic.ub.es.

Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) and Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs), 
which capture life expectancy and quality of the remaining life-years, are 
applied in a new method to measure socioeconomic impacts related to health. A 
7-step methodology estimating the impact of health interventions based on DALYs, 
QALYs and functioning changes is presented. It relates the latter (1) to the 
EQ-5D-5L questionnaire (2) to automatically calculate the health status before 
and after the intervention (3). This change of status is represented as a change 
in quality of life when calculating QALYs gained due to the intervention (4). In 
order to make an economic assessment, QALYs gained are converted to DALYs 
averted (5). Then, by inferring the cost/DALY from the cost associated to the 
disability in terms of DALYs lost (6) and taking into account the cost of the 
action, cost savings due to the intervention are calculated (7) as an objective 
measure of socioeconomic impact. The methodology is implemented in Java. Cases 
within the framework of cardiac rehabilitation processes are analyzed and the 
calculations are based on 200 patients who underwent different 
cardiac-rehabilitation processes. Results show that these interventions result, 
on average, in a gain in QALYs of 0.6 and a cost savings of 8,000 €.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph10115266
PMCID: PMC3863845
PMID: 24284349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Int J Mol Sci. 2013 Nov 21;14(11):23203-11. doi: 10.3390/ijms141123203.

Possible role of -374T/A polymorphism of RAGE gene in longevity.

Falcone C(1), Bozzini S, Colonna A, Matrone B, Paganini EM, Falcone R, Pelissero 
G.

Author information:
(1)Interdepartimental Center for Research in Molecular Medicine (CIRMC), 
University of Pavia, Via Taramelli 24, Pavia 27100, Italy. 
colomba.falcone@unipv.it.

Demographic and social changes in the last decades have resulted in improvements 
in health and longevity. The survival of elderly people has improved 
significantly and thus centenarians are becoming the fastest growing population 
group. Environmental, genetic, and accidental factors have influenced the human 
life span. Researchers have gained substantial evidence that advanced glycation 
end products may play an important role in the processes of physiological aging. 
The aim of the present study was to investigate any differences in the 
frequencies of -374T/A polymorphism in subjects aged >90 years and in 
middle-aged individuals. We observed association between the A allele and 
genotype homozygous for this allele (AA) with a longer life expectancy in the 
male population. In particular, there was a prevalence of AA genotype and A 
allele in long-living subjects and a prevalence of the allele T in middle-aged 
subjects, indicating a possible protective role of the allele A to aging. In 
conclusion, our results support the hypothesis that longevity is the result of a 
good functioning of the immune system and a presumable hyper-expression of 
variants of anti-inflammatory genes of immunity. The differences in the genetic 
regulation of inflammatory processes may influence the presence of age-related 
disorders.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms141123203
PMCID: PMC3856114
PMID: 24284407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2015 Aug;56(4):513-8. Epub 2013 Nov 27.

Is intra-aortic balloon pump absolutely contraindicated in type A aortic 
dissection?

Jaussaud N(1), Durand M, Boignard A, Porcu P, Hacini R, Blin D, Chavanon O.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Timone University Hospital, Marseille, France 
- OChavanon@chu-grenoble.fr.

AIM: Circulatory failure following surgery for type A aortic dissection is 
frequent and associated with a high mortality rate. The intra-aortic balloon 
pump (IABP) is used to treat postcardiotomy cardiogenic shock but aortic 
dissection is traditionally a contraindication. In 10 patients we used IABP for 
severe cardiogenic shock following aortic dissection surgery, here we report on 
the short and midterm results.
METHODS: From January 2000 to April 2008, among 151 patients with type A aortic 
dissection 10 received a postoperative IABP. False lumen extension was limited 
to the ascending aorta for 3 patients, reached the arch for 1 and the descending 
aorta for 6.
RESULTS: The device was placed in the operative room (7 patients), intensive 
care unit (2) and preoperatively (1). IABP was introduced percutaneously except 
for one who required surgical placement. The mean duration of IABP therapy was 
3.8 days. Four patients died, but no death was directly related to IABP. 
Improvement in hemodynamics allowed 8 patients to be weaned off IABP. None 
suffered extension of the dissection. Two patients developed IABP-related 
complications. Six required extrarenal purification. Among the survivors, one 
died of a stroke at 38 months, 2 recovered the same quality of life and 3 had 
neurological sequelae without loss of autonomy.
CONCLUSION: IABP should only be used as a salvage option in cases of severe 
cardiogenic shock following type A aortic dissection. No patient suffered 
device-related aortic rupture or extension of the dissection. High mortality and 
morbidity underline the gravity of cardiogenic shock in this setting.

PMID: 24284938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2014 Sep;26(5):527-35. doi:
10.1177/1010539513510556.  Epub 2013 Nov 27.

Estimation of Vietnam national burden of disease 2008.

Nhung NT(1), Long TK(2), Linh BN(2), Vos T(3), Huong NT(2), Anh ND(4).

Author information:
(1)Hanoi School of Public Health, Hanoi, Vietnam ntn2@hsph.edu.vn.
(2)Hanoi School of Public Health, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(3)University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(4)University of South Australia, Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.

Burden of disease has been used to assess population health status. This article 
presents the first estimations of burden of disease in Vietnam in 2008 using 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). DALYs were calculated using the Global 
Burden of Disease (GBD) methods. Incidence, prevalence of diseases, and causes 
of death was extracted from Vietnam data. Disability weights were borrowed from 
GBD and Dutch research. In 2008, the total burden of disease in Vietnam was 12.3 
million DALYs. Noncommunicable diseases dominated the total burden of diseases 
in Vietnam, accounting for 71% of the total burden, and cardiovascular disease 
was the leading cause group of premature death. While pneumonia was an important 
cause of burden in Vietnamese children, stroke and depression were the main 
causes of disease burden among adults. The study provides a snapshot of 
Vietnamese health status and offers guidance for health policymaking in Vietnam.

© 2013 APJPH.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539513510556
PMID: 24285779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Population (Engl Ed). 2012 Oct 1;67(4):10.3917/pope.1204.0493. doi: 
10.3917/pope.1204.0493.

Recent Demographic Developments in France: Relatively Low Mortality at Advanced 
Ages.

Prioux F, Barbieri M.

France had 65.3 million inhabitants as of 1 January 2012, including 1.9 million 
in the overseas départements. The population is slightly younger than that of 
the European Union as a whole. Population growth continues at the same rate, 
mainly through natural increase. There are now more African than European 
immigrants living in France. Fertility was practically stable in 2011 (2.01 
children per woman), but the lifetime fertility of the 1971-1972 cohorts reached 
a historic low in metropolitan France (1.99 children per woman), nevertheless 
remaining among the highest in Europe. Abortion levels remained stable and rates 
among young people are no longer increasing. The marriage rate is falling and 
the divorce rate has stabilized (46.2 divorces per 100 marriages in 2011). The 
risk of divorce decreases with age, but has greatly increased among the 
under-70s over the last decade. Life expectancy at birth (78.4 years for men, 
85.0 for women) has continued to increase at the same rate, mainly thanks to 
progress at advanced ages. Among European countries, France has the lowest 
mortality in the over-65 age group, but it ranks less well for premature 
mortality.

DOI: 10.3917/pope.1204.0493
PMCID: PMC3839870
PMID: 24285939


674. J Osteoporos. 2013;2013:571418. doi: 10.1155/2013/571418. Epub 2013 Oct 27.

HIV and Bone Disease: A Perspective of the Role of microRNAs in Bone Biology 
upon HIV Infection.

Del Carpio-Cano FE(1), Dela Cadena RA, Sawaya BE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Fels Institute for Cancer Research and Molecular 
Biology, Temple University School of Medicine, 3307 North Broad Street, 
Philadelphia, PA 19140, USA.

Increased life expectancy and the need for long-term antiretroviral therapy have 
brought new challenges to the clinical management of HIV-infected individuals. 
The prevalence of osteoporosis and fractures is increased in HIV-infected 
patients; thus optimal strategies for risk management and treatment in this 
group of patients need to be defined. Prevention of bone loss is an important 
component of HIV care as the HIV population grows older. Understanding the 
mechanisms by which HIV infection affects bone biology leading to osteoporosis 
is crucial to delineate potential adjuvant treatments. This review focuses on 
HIV-induced osteoporosis within the context of microRNAs (miRNAs) by reviewing 
first basic concepts of bone biology as well as current knowledge of the role of 
miRNAs in bone development. Evidence that HIV-associated osteoporosis is in part 
independent of therapies employed to treat HIV (HAART) is supported by 
cross-sectional and longitudinal studies and is the focus of this review.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/571418
PMCID: PMC3826318
PMID: 24286015


675. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Nov;17(55):xv-xix, 1-211. doi: 10.3310/hta17550.

Faecal calprotectin testing for differentiating amongst inflammatory and 
non-inflammatory bowel diseases: systematic review and economic evaluation.

Waugh N(1), Cummins E, Royle P, Kandala NB, Shyangdan D, Arasaradnam R, Clar C, 
Johnston R.

Author information:
(1)Warwick Evidence, Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Medical School, 
Coventry, UK.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2014 Apr 15;160(8):JC13.

BACKGROUND: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is common, and causes pain, bloating 
and diarrhoea and/or constipation. It is a troublesome condition that reduces 
the quality of life but causes no permanent damage. Inflammatory bowel disease 
(IBD) comprises mainly ulcerative colitis (UC) and Crohn's disease (CD). Both 
cause serious complications and may lead to sections of the bowel having to be 
removed, although this is more common with CD. The presenting symptoms of IBS 
and IBD can be similar. Distinguishing them on clinical signs and symptoms can 
be difficult. Until recently, colonoscopy was often required to rule out IBD. In 
younger people, > 60% of colonoscopies showed no abnormality. Faecal 
calprotectin (FC) is a protein released by the white blood cells, neutrophils, 
found in inflamed areas of the bowel in IBD. Determining the level of FC in 
stool samples may help distinguish IBS from IBD.
OBJECTIVE: To review the value of FC for distinguishing between IBD and non-IBD.
DATA SOURCES: Sources included MEDLINE, EMBASE, The Cochrane Library, Web of 
Science, websites of journals and the European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation 
(conference abstracts 2012 and 2013), and contact with experts.
REVIEW METHODS: Systematic review and economic modelling. Review Manager 
(RevMan) version 5.2 (The Cochrane Collaboration, The Nordic Cochrane Centre, 
Copenhagen, Denmark) was used for most analysis, with statistical analyses done 
in Stata version 12 (StataCorp LP, College Station, TX, USA). Forest plots and 
receiver operating characteristic curves were produced. Quality Assessment of 
Diagnostic Accuracy Studies was used for quality assessment. Economic modelling 
was done in Microsoft Excel 2010 (Microsoft Corporation, Redmond, WA, USA).
LIMITATIONS: Studies were often small, most used only one calprotectin cut-off 
level, and nearly all came from secondary care populations.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight studies provided data for 2 × 2 tables and were included 
in meta-analyses, with seven in the most important comparison in adults (IBS vs. 
IBD) and eight in the key comparison in paediatrics (IBD vs. non-IBD). Most 
studies used laboratory enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) tests. For 
distinguishing between IBD and IBS in adults, these gave pooled sensitivity of 
93% and specificity of 94% at FC cut-off level of 50 µg/g. Sensitivities at that 
cut-off ranged from 83% to 100%, and specificities from 60% to 100%. For 
distinguishing between IBD and non-IBD in paediatric populations with ELISA 
tests, sensitivities ranged from 95% to 100% at cut-off of 50 µg/g and 
specificities of 44-93%. Few studies used point-of-care testing but that seemed 
as reliable as ELISA, though perhaps less specific. The evidence did not provide 
any grounds for preferring one test over others on clinical effectiveness 
grounds. FC testing in primary care could reduce the need for referral and 
colonoscopies. Any quality-adjusted life-year gains are likely to be small 
because of the low prevalence of IBD and the high sensitivities of all of the 
tests, resulting in few false negatives with IBD. However, considerable savings 
could accrue. Areas of uncertainty include the optimum management of people with 
borderline results (50-150 µg/g), most of whom do not have IBD. Repeat testing 
may be appropriate before referral.
CONCLUSIONS: Faecal calprotectin can be a highly sensitive way of detecting IBD, 
although there are inevitably trade-offs between sensitivity and specificity, 
with some false positives (IBS with positive calprotectin) if a low calprotectin 
cut-off is used. In most cases, a negative calprotectin rules out IBD, thereby 
sparing most people with IBS from having to have invasive investigations, such 
as colonoscopy.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD 42012003287.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17550
PMCID: PMC4781415
PMID: 24286461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


676. J Int AIDS Soc. 2013 Nov 27;16(1):18446. doi: 10.7448/IAS.16.1.18446.

From GRID to gridlock: the relationship between scientific biomedical 
breakthroughs and HIV/AIDS policy in the US Congress.

Platt MB(1), Platt MO.

Author information:
(1)Department of Government, Harvard University Cambridge, MA, USA.

INTRODUCTION: From the travel ban on people living with HIV (PLHIV) to 
resistance to needle exchange programmes, there are many examples where policy 
responses to HIV/AIDS in the United States seem divorced from behavioural, 
public health and sociological evidence. At its root, however, the unknowns 
about HIV/AIDS lie at biomedical science, and scientific researchers have made 
tremendous progress over the past 30 years of the epidemic by using 
antiretroviral therapy to increase the life expectancy of PLHIV almost to the 
same level as non-infected individuals; but a relationship between biomedical 
science discoveries and congressional responses to HIV/AIDS has not been 
studied. Using quantitative approaches, we directly examine the hypothesis that 
progress in HIV/AIDS biomedical science discoveries would have a correlative 
relationship with congressional response to HIV/AIDS from 1981 to 2010.
METHODS: This study used original data on every bill introduced, hearing held 
and law passed by the US Congress relating to HIV/AIDS over 30 years 
(1981-2010). We combined congressional data with the most cited and impactful 
biomedical research scientific publications over the same time period as a 
metric of biomedical science breakthroughs. Correlations between congressional 
policy and biomedical research were then analyzed at the aggregate and 
individual levels.
RESULTS: Biomedical research advancements helped shape both the level and 
content of bill sponsorship on HIV/AIDS, but they had no effect on other stages 
of the legislative process. Examination of the content of bills and biomedical 
research indicated that science helped transform HIV/AIDS bill sponsorship from 
a niche concern of liberal Democrats to a bipartisan coalition when Republicans 
became the majority party. The trade-off for that expansion has been an emphasis 
on the global epidemic to the detriment of domestic policies and programmes.
CONCLUSIONS: Breakthroughs in biomedical science did associate with the number 
and types of HIV/AIDS bills introduced in Congress, but that relationship did 
not extend to the passage of laws or to hearings. When science matters, it 
cannot be separated from political considerations. An important implication of 
our work has been the depoliticizing role that science can play. Scientific 
breakthroughs helped to transform HIV/AIDS policy from a niche of liberal 
Democrats into bipartisan support for the global fight against the disease.

DOI: 10.7448/IAS.16.1.18446
PMCID: PMC3843110
PMID: 24286556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Endocrinol Metab Clin North Am. 2013 Dec;42(4):677-95. doi: 
10.1016/j.ecl.2013.07.001.

Diabetic ketoacidosis and hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state.

Maletkovic J(1), Drexler A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, UCLA School of Medicine, Gonda Diabetes Center, 
200 UCLA Medical Plaza, Suite 530, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. Electronic 
address: jmaletkovic@mednet.ucla.edu.

Diabetic ketoacidosis (DKA) and the hyperglycemic hyperosmolar state (HHS) are 
potentially fatal hyperglycemic crises that occur as acute complications of 
uncontrolled diabetes mellitus. The authors provide a review of the current 
epidemiology, precipitating factors, pathogenesis, clinical presentation, 
evaluation, and treatment of DKA and HHS. The discovery of insulin in 1921 
changed the life expectancy of patients with diabetes mellitus dramatically. 
Today, almost a century later, DKA and HHS remain significant causes of 
morbidity and mortality across different countries, ages, races, and 
socioeconomic groups and a significant economic burden for society.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecl.2013.07.001
PMID: 24286946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Dig Dis Sci. 2014 May;59(5):1042-7. doi: 10.1007/s10620-013-2949-6. Epub
2013  Nov 28.

Comparison of endoscopic papillary balloon dilation and sphincterotomy in young 
patients with CBD stones and gallstones.

Seo YR(1), Moon JH, Choi HJ, Kim DC, Ha JS, Lee TH, Cha SW, Cho YD, Park SH, Kim 
SJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Digestive Disease Center and Research 
Institute, SoonChunHyang University School of Medicine, Bucheon and Seoul, 
Korea.

Comment in
    Dig Dis Sci. 2014 May;59(5):902-4.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Endoscopic biliary sphincterotomy (EBS) results in 
permanent loss of sphincter function and its long-term complications are 
unknown. Endoscopic papillary balloon dilation (EPBD) is an alternative 
procedure that preserves sphincter function, although it is associated with a 
higher risk of pancreatitis than is EBS. The aim of this study was to evaluate 
the safety and outcomes of EPBD with limited indications for removal of common 
bile duct (CBD) stones combined with gallstones in patients younger than 40 
years.
METHODS: Young (age < 40 years) patients who had CBD stones combined with 
gallstones on imaging studies were enrolled in this study. A total of 132 
patients were randomly divided into the EPBD group (n = 62) or the EBS group (n 
= 70) for extraction of CBD stones. The ballooning size of EPBD ranged from 6 to 
10 mm.
RESULTS: Complete bile duct clearance was achieved in 98.4 % (61/62) of the EPBD 
group and 100 % (70/70) of the EBS group. Mechanical lithotripsy was required in 
8.1 % (5/62) of the EPBD group and 8.6 % (6/70) of the EBS group. The early 
complication rates were 8.1 % (5/62) (five pancreatitis) in the EPBD group and 
11.4 % (8/70) (five [7.1 %] pancreatitis, two bleeding and one perforation) in 
the EBS group. The recurrence rates of CBD stones were 1.6 % (1/62) in the EPBD 
group and 5.7 % (4/70) in the EBS group.
CONCLUSIONS: EPBD with limited indications was safe and effective as EBS for 
removal of CBD stones combined with gallstones in young patients who had a 
longer life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s10620-013-2949-6
PMID: 24287639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Feb;32(2):135-47. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0115-9.

Cost effectiveness of a 21-gene recurrence score assay versus Canadian clinical 
practice in post-menopausal women with early-stage estrogen or 
progesterone-receptor-positive, axillary lymph-node positive breast cancer.

Hannouf MB(1), Xie B, Brackstone M, Zaric GS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Schulich School of Medicine and 
Dentistry, Western University, 1151 Richmond St, London, ON, N6A 5C1, Canada, 
mbassamh27@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: A 21-gene recurrence score (RS) assay provides a method of guiding 
treatment decisions in women with early-stage breast cancer (ESBC). We 
investigated the cost effectiveness of using the RS assay versus current 
clinical practice (CCP) in post-menopausal women with estrogen- or 
progesterone-receptor-positive, one to three positive axillary lymph-node ESBC 
from the perspective of the Canadian public healthcare system.
METHODS: We developed a decision analytic model to project the lifetime clinical 
and economic consequences of ESBC. We assumed that the RS assay would classify 
patients among risk levels (low, intermediate and high) and corresponding 
adjuvant treatment regimens. The model was parameterized using 7-year follow-up 
data from the Manitoba Cancer Registry, cost data from Manitoba Health 
administrative databases and secondary sources. Costs are presented in 2012 
Canadian dollars, and future costs and benefits were discounted at 5 %.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis, the RS assay compared with CCP led to an 
increase of 0.08 quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) and an increase in cost of 
Can$36.2 per person, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
of Can$464/QALY gained. The ICER was most sensitive to the proportion of women 
classified to intermediate risk by the RS assay who received adjuvant 
chemotherapy, and absolute risk of relapse among patients receiving the RS 
assay.
CONCLUSIONS: The RS assay is likely to be cost effective in the Canadian 
healthcare system. Field evaluations of the assay in this patient population 
will help reduce uncertainty in clinical guidelines for intermediate-range 
RS-assay values and specific disease outcomes by the RS assay, which are 
important drivers of ICER.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0115-9
PMID: 24288208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Oct 27;2013:512313. doi: 10.1155/2013/512313. 
eCollection 2013.

Immigrant health inequalities in the United States: use of eight major national 
data systems.

Singh GK(1), Rodriguez-Lainz A, Kogan MD.

Author information:
(1)US Department of Health and Human Services, Health Resources and Services 
Administration, Maternal and Child Health Bureau, 5600 Fishers Lane, Room 18-41, 
Rockville, MD 20857, USA.

Eight major federal data systems, including the National Vital Statistics System 
(NVSS), National Health Interview Survey (NHIS), National Survey of Children's 
Health, National Longitudinal Mortality Study, and American Community Survey, 
were used to examine health differentials between immigrants and the US-born 
across the life course. Survival and logistic regression, prevalence, and 
age-adjusted death rates were used to examine differentials. Although these data 
systems vary considerably in their coverage of health and behavioral 
characteristics, ethnic-immigrant groups, and time periods, they all serve as 
important research databases for understanding the health of US immigrants. The 
NVSS and NHIS, the two most important data systems, include a wide range of 
health variables and many racial/ethnic and immigrant groups. Immigrants live 
3.4 years longer than the US-born, with a life expectancy ranging from 83.0 
years for Asian/Pacific Islander immigrants to 69.2 years for US-born blacks. 
Overall, immigrants have better infant, child, and adult health and lower 
disability and mortality rates than the US-born, with immigrant health patterns 
varying across racial/ethnic groups. Immigrant children and adults, however, 
fare substantially worse than the US-born in health insurance coverage and 
access to preventive health services. Suggestions and new directions are offered 
for improvements in health monitoring and for strengthening and developing 
databases for immigrant health assessment in the USA.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/512313
PMCID: PMC3826317
PMID: 24288488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. Curr Med Res Opin. 2014 Apr;30(4):695-709. doi:
10.1185/03007995.2013.869201.  Epub 2013 Dec 16.

Switching from oral risperidone to flexibly dosed oral paliperidone 
extended-release: core symptoms, satisfaction, and quality of life in patients 
with stable but symptomatic schizophrenia: the RISPALI study.

Gattaz WF(1), Campos JA, Lacerda AL, Henna E, Ruschel SI, Bressan RA, de 
Oliveira IR, Rocha FL, Grabowski HM, Sacomani E Jr, Louzã MR, Quevedo J, Elkis 
H, Zorzetto Filho D, Périco Cde A, Lawson FL, Appolinário JC.

Author information:
(1)Department and Institute of Psychiatry, and Laboratory of Neuroscience 
(LIM27), University of São Paulo Medical School , Brazil.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this prospective study was to evaluate the effects of 
switching from oral risperidone to flexibly dosed oral paliperidone 
extended-release (ER) in Brazilian adults with schizophrenia because of lack of 
efficacy, intolerability, or nonadherence after a minimum trial of 30 days on 
adequate (labeled) doses of oral risperidone, according to individual clinical 
judgment.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Subjects with Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale 
total scores above 78, and/or intolerable adverse effects, with risperidone 
received open-label paliperidone ER 3 to 12 mg daily for 26 (main phase) to 52 
(extension phase) weeks.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinicaltrials.gov identifier: NCT01010776.
RESULTS: The intent-to-treat (efficacy) populations comprised 213 subjects in 
the main phase and 159 in the extension phase. Of 213 subjects with baseline and 
post-baseline efficacy data, 154 (72.3%) switched from risperidone to 
paliperidone ER because of a lack of efficacy and 59 (27.7%) because of 
tolerability issues, according to individual clinical judgment. Paliperidone ER 
significantly (p < 0.0500) improved a broad spectrum of efficacy endpoints from 
baseline, as early as the first post-baseline visit (Visit 2; 4 weeks) and 
persisting through 26 to 52 weeks. On most efficacy endpoints, function improved 
from baseline to the first post-baseline visit (week 4) and remained 
significantly improved compared to baseline at each visit for paliperidone ER 
treatment, at weeks 8, 13, 26, 39, 26, and 52; data are reported herein mainly 
for 26 and 52 weeks compared to baseline. Significant improvements from baseline 
were observed for the Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total score and 
subscale scores (each p < 0.0001 at 26 and 52 weeks vs. baseline); and personal 
and social functioning (p < 0.0001 at 26 and 52 weeks). Paliperidone ER also 
significantly improved health-related quality of life (Short-Form 36) from 
baseline, particularly on the Mental Component Summary (p = 0.0011 at 26 weeks 
and p = 0.0019 at 52 weeks). Treatment with paliperidone ER also significantly 
improved (vs. baseline) sleep quality (according to decreases on the Pittsburgh 
Sleep Quality Index; p < 0.0001 at each visit vs. baseline) and disease severity 
(Clinical Global Impression-Severity; p < 0.0001 at each visit vs. baseline). 
Paliperidone ER was well tolerated. Adverse events occurring in at least 10% of 
subjects in either phase were insomnia (14.9% in the main phase and 8.8% in the 
extension phase); increased body weight (10.7% and 12.6%, respectively); and 
anxiety (10.7% and 2.5%). Most of these adverse events were: 1) rated as mild or 
moderate; 2) did not prompt interventions such as paliperidone ER dose 
adjustment or interruption; and 3) decreased in frequency from the main to the 
extension phase.
CONCLUSIONS: Oral paliperidone ER is a rational treatment alternative for 
patients with schizophrenia whose antipsychotic regimens are switched because of 
unsuccessful treatment with oral risperidone according to individual clinical 
judgment. Study limitations included the open-label study design, lack of 
placebo, and use of subjective clinical judgment to determine lack of efficacy, 
intolerability, or nonadherence with oral risperidone.

DOI: 10.1185/03007995.2013.869201
PMID: 24289141 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Curr Med Res Opin. 2014 Apr;30(4):629-35. doi: 10.1185/03007995.2013.869492.
 Epub 2013 Dec 5.

A benefit-risk analysis of natalizumab in the treatment of patients with 
multiple sclerosis when considering the risk of progressive multifocal 
leukoencephalopathy.

Walker A(1), Watson C, Alexopoulos ST, Deniz B, Arnold R, Bates D.

Author information:
(1)Heron Evidence Development Ltd , London , UK.

BACKGROUND: Natalizumab is a highly effective treatment for patients with 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis (RRMS). Treatment with natalizumab has 
been associated with progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML), a rare 
yet serious disease of the brain. Published studies have quantified the PML risk 
by the presence of anti-JC virus antibodies, previous immunosuppressant use, and 
duration of natalizumab treatment.
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this analysis was to evaluate the net benefits and risks 
for patients with RRMS receiving natalizumab treatment compared with fingolimod, 
interferon-β, and no treatment across PML risk sub-groups.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Based on previously validated MS model structures, 
a Markov cohort model was developed to assess the impact of treatment on 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Natalizumab-treated patients were 
classified by PML risk sub-groups and analysed separately for short-term (2 
years) and long-term (20 years) time horizons.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Main outcome measures included total QALYs by PML risk 
sub-group and the increase in PML risk associated with natalizumab treatment 
which offsets the quality of life benefit of comparator treatments.
RESULTS: Results showed higher QALYs with natalizumab versus all other 
comparators across PML risk sub-groups over both time horizons. For the QALYs of 
natalizumab to equal the QALYs of fingolimod, interferon-β, and no treatment, 
the risk of PML would have to increase 4.6-84.2 times, 24.0-444.3 times, and 
5.7-106.1 times, respectively (short term), and 1.4-123.4 times, 1.5-138.3 
times, and 2.2-193.7 times, respectively (long term).
CONCLUSION: This study shows that natalizumab generates the most net health 
benefits in terms of quality-adjusted life years compared with fingolimod, 
interferon-β, or no treatment, even when the risk of natalizumab-associated PML 
is taken into consideration. This study is limited by the availability of 
published data around natalizumab-associated PML, as well as the constraints of 
the model used to conduct the analysis.

DOI: 10.1185/03007995.2013.869492
PMID: 24289170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. J Sports Sci. 2014;32(8):785-92. doi: 10.1080/02640414.2013.858177. Epub
2013  Nov 29.

Effects of combined exercise training on immunological, physical and biochemical 
parameters in individuals with HIV/AIDS.

Garcia A(1), Fraga GA, Vieira RC Jr, Silva CM, Trombeta JC, Navalta JW, Prestes 
J, Voltarelli FA.

Author information:
(1)a Federal University of Mato Grosso (UFMT) Cuiabá , Brazil.

The practice of exercise has shown to be beneficial to quality of life of 
individuals with HIV/AIDS. Thus, the present study analysed the effects of a 
combined exercise training in persons living with HIV/AIDS. Ten participants 
participated in the present study. The following variables were analysed: viral 
load and cell counts for TCD4+/TCD8; maximal oxygen consumption (VO2max); total 
mass, absolute fat mass, relative fat mass, absolute lean mass, relative lean 
mass and body mass index; fasting glycaemia, fasting insulinaemia, homeostatic 
model assessment (HOMA) index (insulin resistance - homeostatic model assessment 
(IR-HOMA)); total cholesterol, triglycerides, high-density lipoprotein (HDL), 
very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL), low-density lipoprotein (LDL); superoxide 
dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase activities; thiobarbituric acid 
reactive substances. The combined exercise training consisted of resistance 
exercises plus aerobic training (60 min · session(-1), three times per week, 
during 20 weeks). The number of TCD4+ cells, absolute lean mass and relative 
lean mass, muscle strength for the 45° leg press, seated row and triceps 
extension, HDL-c levels as well as VO2max increased post-training. The activity 
of superoxide dismutase, catalase, glutathione peroxidase enzymes and 
thiobarbituric acid reactive substances levels were diminished post-training. 
Finally, it can be concluded that combined exercise training is able to change 
positively several variables related to health of individuals with HIV/AIDS, 
mainly the immune system as well as antioxidant mechanisms re-establishment.

DOI: 10.1080/02640414.2013.858177
PMID: 24289219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2013 Dec 1;11:203. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-11-203.

Mapping the FACT-G cancer-specific quality of life instrument to the EQ-5D and 
SF-6D.

Teckle P(1), McTaggart-Cowan H, Van der Hoek K, Chia S, Melosky B, Gelmon K, 
Peacock S.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control, British Columbia 
Cancer Agency, Vancouver, BC, Canada. pteckle@bccrc.ca.

OBJECTIVE: To help facilitate economic evaluations of oncology treatments, we 
mapped responses on cancer-specific instrument to generic preference-based 
measures.
METHODS: Cancer patients (n = 367) completed one cancer-specific instrument, the 
FACT-G, and two preference-based measures, the EQ-5D and SF-6D. Responses were 
randomly divided to form development (n = 184) and cross-validation (n = 183) 
samples. Relationships between the instruments were estimated using ordinary 
least squares (OLS), generalized linear models (GLM), and censored least 
absolute deviations (CLAD) regression approaches. The performance of each model 
was assessed in terms of how well the responses to the cancer-specific 
instrument predicted EQ-5D and SF-6D utilities using mean absolute error (MAE) 
and root mean squared error (RMSE).
RESULTS: Physical, functional, and emotional well-being domain scores of the 
FACT-G best explained the EQ-5D and SF-6D. In terms of accuracy of prediction as 
measured in RMSE, the CLAD model performed best for the EQ-5D (RMSE = 0.095) 
whereas the GLM model performed best for the SF-6D (RMSE = 0.061). The GLM 
predicted SF-6D scores matched the observed values more closely than the CLAD 
and OLS.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that the estimation of both EQ-5D and SF-6D 
utility indices using the FACT-G responses can be achieved. The CLAD model for 
the EQ-5D and the GLM model for the SF-6D are recommended. Thus, it is possible 
to estimate quality-adjusted life years for economic evaluation from studies 
where only cancer-specific instrument have been administered.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-11-203
PMCID: PMC4220776
PMID: 24289488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. BMC Pediatr. 2013 Dec 1;13:198. doi: 10.1186/1471-2431-13-198.

Newborn care practices at home and in health facilities in 4 regions of 
Ethiopia.

Callaghan-Koru JA(1), Seifu A, Tholandi M, de Graft-Johnson J, Daniel E, Rawlins 
B, Worku B, Baqui AH.

Author information:
(1)International Center for Maternal and Newborn Health, Department of 
International Health, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, MD, USA. jcallagh@jhsph.edu.

BACKGROUND: Ethiopia is one of the ten countries with the highest number of 
neonatal deaths globally, and only 1 in 10 women deliver with a skilled 
attendant. Promotion of essential newborn care practices is one strategy for 
improving newborn health outcomes that can be delivered in communities as well 
as facilities. This article describes newborn care practices reported by 
recently-delivered women (RDWs) in four regions of Ethiopia.
METHODS: We conducted a household survey with two-stage cluster sampling to 
assess newborn care practices among women who delivered a live baby in the 
period 1 to 7 months prior to data collection.
RESULTS: The majority of women made one antenatal care (ANC) visit to a health 
facility, although less than half made four or more visits and women were most 
likely to deliver their babies at home. About one-fifth of RDWs in this survey 
had contact with Health Extension Workers (HEWS) during ANC, but nurse/midwives 
were the most common providers, and few women had postnatal contact with any 
health provider. Common beneficial newborn care practices included exclusive 
breastfeeding (87.6%), wrapping the baby before delivery of the placenta 
(82.3%), and dry cord care (65.2%). Practices contrary to WHO recommendations 
that were reported in this population of recent mothers include bathing during 
the first 24 hours of life (74.7%), application of butter and other substances 
to the cord (19.9%), and discarding of colostrum milk (44.5%). The results 
suggest that there are not large differences for most essential newborn care 
indicators between facility and home deliveries, with the exception of delayed 
bathing and skin-to-skin care.
CONCLUSIONS: Improving newborn care and newborn health outcomes in Ethiopia will 
likely require a multifaceted approach. Given low facility delivery rates, 
community-based promotion of preventive newborn care practices, which has been 
effective in other settings, is an important strategy. For this strategy to be 
successful, the coverage of counseling delivered by HEWs and other community 
volunteers should be increased.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2431-13-198
PMCID: PMC4219496
PMID: 24289501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2013;14(10):6085-8. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.10.6085.

Impact of PSA and DRE on histologic findings at prostate biopsy in Turkish men 
over 75 years of age.

Verim L(1), Yildirim A, Basok EK, Peltekoglu E, Pelit ES, Zemheri E, Tokuc R.

Author information:
(1)Haydarpasa Numune Training and Research Hospital Urology Department, 
Istanbul, Turkey E-mail : leventverim@hotmail.com.

Prostate specidic antigen (PSA) and digital rectal examination (DRE) are the 
known predictive factors for positive prostate biopsies differing according to 
the age, region and race. There have been only very limited studies about the 
impact of PSA on histological findings at prostate biopsy in Turkey. The aim of 
this study was to evaluate the impact of PSA and clinical stage on histologic 
findings of prostate biopsy in men older than 75 years of age as a first study 
in the Turkish population. A total of 1,645 consecutive prostate biopsies were 
included, with 194 men aged 75 or older. Cancer was identified in 104 patients 
(53.6%). Of the 104 positive biopsies, Gleason scores were less than 7 in 53 
(49%) patients, 7 or greater in 51 (51%) patients. Positive prostate biopsies 
were significantly correlated with advanced age (p=0.0001), abnormal DRE 
(p=0.0001) and raised PSA (p=0.0001). The prostate volume was significantly 
correlated with advanced age especially in prostate cancer patients over 75 
years, compared with those under 75 (p=0.0001). These results are useful for 
counseling men older than 75 years for prostate cancer detection. However, PCa 
screening decisions are currently based on urologist judgment and detection of 
latent asymptomatic disease is an important concern regarding costs, 
overdiagnosis, overtreatment and quality of life (QOL) for men aged 75 years and 
older. Healthy old patients with a long life expectancy need to be carefully 
evaluated for eligibility for PCa screening.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.10.6085
PMID: 24289630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. Maturitas. 2014 Feb;77(2):185-90. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2013.10.019. Epub
 2013 Nov 7.

Predictive outcomes of revision total hip replacement--a consecutive series of 
1176 patients with a minimum 10-year follow-up.

Philpott A(1), Weston-Simons JS(2), Grammatopoulos G(1), Bejon P(3), Gill HS(4), 
McLardy-Smith P(3), Gundle R(3), Murray DW(5), Pandit H(5).

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal 
Sciences, University of Oxford, Windmill Road, Headington, Oxford OX3 7LD, UK.
(2)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal 
Sciences, University of Oxford, Windmill Road, Headington, Oxford OX3 7LD, UK. 
Electronic address: samwestonsimons@yahoo.co.uk.
(3)Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, Headington, Oxford, UK.
(4)Department of Mechanical Engineering, University of Bath, UK.
(5)Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal 
Sciences, University of Oxford, Windmill Road, Headington, Oxford OX3 7LD, UK; 
Nuffield Orthopaedic Centre, Headington, Oxford, UK.

The burden of revision total hip replacement (THR) surgery is increasing. With 
an increasing life expectancy and younger age of primary surgery this trend is 
set to continue. There are few data on the long-term outcome of revision THR. 
This retrospective study of 1176 consecutive revision THRs with a minimum 
10-year follow-up from a University Teaching Hospital was undertaken to review 
implant survival and patient reported outcomes. Mean follow-up was 11 years with 
implant survival at 10 years of 82% (CI: 80-85). Implant survival varied between 
58% (unexplained pain) to 84% (aseptic loosening) depending on the indication 
for revision surgery. Positive predictors of survival were age greater than 70 
at the time of surgery (p=0.011), revision for aseptic loosening (p<0.01) and 
revision of both components or just the acetabular component (p<0.01). At the 
last review, mean Oxford Hip Score (OHS) was 34 (SD: 11.3) and 92% of the living 
patients with unrevised hips were satisfied with the outcome of revision 
surgery. This long term study has demonstrated that positive predictors of 
survival and outcome of revision THR surgery are age greater than 70 years, 
revision for aseptic loosening and component revision. This should aid surgeons 
in their counselling of patients prior to surgery.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2013.10.019
PMID: 24289896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Diabetes Metab Syndr. 2013 Oct-Dec;7(4):187-90. doi:
10.1016/j.dsx.2013.10.024.  Epub 2013 Nov 13.

Relative effect of socio-economic status on the health-related quality of life 
in type 2 diabetic patients in Iran.

Hosseini Nejhad Z(1), Molavi Vardanjani H, Abolhasani F, Hadipour M, Sheikhzadeh 
K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, School of Medicine, Kerman University of Medical 
Sciences, Kerman, Iran.

INTRODUCTION AND AIMS: Type II diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a progressing 
epidemic and a major cause of mortality and morbidity worldwide. The quality of 
life (QoL) of diabetic patients has been strongly influenced by socioeconomic 
status (SES) in developed countries. Therefore, the QoL improvement is 
considered to be a major goal in diabetes control program. In this context, 
there is no reliable evidence for developing countries. In this study, the 
relative association of SES with health-related quality of life (HRQoL) was 
assessed in patients with T2DM in Iran.
METHOD: The "Cost estimation of Type 2 Diabetes in Iran" was used for secondary 
data analysis. The socio-economic status has been assessed by Categorical 
principal component analysis (CATPCA) techniques and HRQoL, using EQ-5D Visual 
Analog Scale, modified for digit preferences. Age, gender, education, 
occupation, SES, marital status, residency, education (T2DM related), diagnostic 
methods, number of annual care, type of treatment and Duration of disease 
awareness were used as independent variables in the multivariable linear 
regression model. Statistical analysis was performed using Stata software 
version 11.2.
RESULTS: The response rate was 88.6%. Out of 3472 patients, 2128 were female and 
about 78.7% were from urban areas. All variables associated with T2DM were 
significant at the level of 0.05 except, the type of treatment, residency and 
education. Standardized regression coefficient for SES was estimated as 0.106 
(p-value<0.0001).
CONCLUSION: It seems that the SES of households in developing countries has a 
meaningful effect on the HRQoL of patients with T2DM as well as developed 
countries.

Copyright © 2013 Diabetes India. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dsx.2013.10.024
PMID: 24290081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. J Clin Epidemiol. 2014 May;67(5):596-600. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2013.07.020.  Epub 2013 Nov 28.

Tempo effects may distort the interpretation of trends in life expectancy.

Peters F(1), Nusselder WJ(2), Mackenbach JP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
f.peters@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Recently, a new interpretation problem of trends in period life 
expectancy has been discussed in the demographic literature. The so-called tempo 
effects arise if large numbers of deaths are suddenly postponed. In such 
conditions, the life table inflates longevity gains in the population because it 
weights avoided deaths with the full remaining life expectancy. This article 
explains how such effects occur and indicates their relevance using an 
illustrative example.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: Data of East and West Germany from the Human Mortality 
Database for the years 1990-2009 were used. We simulated a scenario that 
contrasts the observed life expectancy in West and East Germany with an 
alternative one based on the assumption of short-term postponements of deaths.
RESULTS: Our example demonstrates that if tempo effects have distorted changes 
in life expectancy, the pace of improvement in underlying mortality conditions 
could be over- and underestimated.
CONCLUSION: We recommend that the assumptions of the life table, in this case 
about the remaining life expectancy of avoided deaths, are carefully evaluated 
in all applications. Interdisciplinary efforts to develop models to detect and 
quantify tempo effects from life expectancy calculations should be put on the 
research agenda.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2013.07.020
PMID: 24290146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Dec;17(56):v-xvii, 1-181. doi: 10.3310/hta17560.

Colistimethate sodium powder and tobramycin powder for inhalation for the 
treatment of chronic Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in cystic fibrosis: 
systematic review and economic model.

Tappenden P(1), Harnan S, Uttley L, Mildred M, Carroll C, Cantrell A.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is an inherited condition characterised by the 
abnormal transport of chloride ions across transporting epithelia. This leads to 
the production of thick sticky mucus in the lungs, pancreas, liver, intestine 
and reproductive tract, and an increase in the salt content in sweat. Among 
other problems, people with CF experience recurrent respiratory infections and 
have difficulties digesting food. CF affects over 9000 individuals in the UK. CF 
shortens life expectancy and adversely affects quality of life. In 2010, CF was 
recorded as the cause of 103 deaths in England and Wales.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
colistimethate sodium dry powder for inhalation (DPI) (Colobreathe(®), Forest 
Laboratories) and tobramycin DPI (TOBI Podhaler(®), Novartis Pharmaceuticals) 
for the treatment of Pseudomonas aeruginosa lung infection in CF.
DATA SOURCES: Electronic databases were searched in February and March 2011 
[MEDLINE, MEDLINE In-Process & Other Non-Indexed citations, EMBASE, The Cochrane 
Library databases, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature 
(CINAHL), Web of Science, Conference Proceedings Citation Index (CPCI) and 
Bioscience Information Service (BIOSIS) Previews]. Relevant databases were 
