antiretroviral (ARV) treatment effectiveness, treatment sequencing, clinical 
progression, and resource use. Potential events included scheduled physician 
visits; viral suppression; viral rebound; AIDS-related complications; CHD 
events; treatment discontinuation and switching; ARV treatment side-effects 
(SE); and death. The primary outcomes were discounted 5-year and 10-year 
healthcare costs. Alternative scenarios considered different rates of switching 
from DRV + RTV to LPV/r upon conception.
RESULTS: Compared with DRV + RTV, LPV/r was associated with similar clinical 
outcomes while offering savings at the 5- and 10-year horizons (of $24,904 and 
$43,502 per patient, respectively), and in extensive sensitivity analyses. The 
main driver of the savings was the difference in cost between PIs.
CONCLUSIONS: Starting HIV-infected ARV-treatment-naїve WOCBA on an LPV/r-based 
regimen is cost-saving and provides similar patient outcomes compared to a 
DRV + RTV-based regimen.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.877469
PMID: 24351091 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Obes Res Clin Pract. 2007 Jan;1(1):1-78. doi: 10.1016/j.orcp.2006.12.001.

The clinical effectiveness of weight loss drugs.

Wittert G(1), Caterson I(2), Finer N(2).

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, 
UK. Electronic address:gary.wittert@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)Wellcome Trust Clinical Research Facility, Addenbrooke's Hospital, Cambridge, 
UK.

At a time when obesity is reaching epidemic proportions across the western world 
and increasing rapidly in developing countries, clinicians clearly are becoming 
more aware of the need to offer weight management advice and effective treatment 
to patients, especially those with a high risk of developing type 2 diabetes. 
For those patients with a BMI ≥ 30.0 kg/m(2) or for those with a BMI of 27.0 
kg/m(2) with an obesity-related disease such as dyslipidaemia or type 2 diabetes 
mellitus, modest weight loss in the order of 5% achieved by modification of 
dietary intake and activity behaviour can significantly improve risk factors for 
obesity-related diseases and delay progression to type 2 diabetes. 
Unfortunately, rates of adherence with dietary-based weight management 
programmes are generally low and for most patients weight regain with time is 
common. The use of weight loss medications is recognised as a positive strategy 
for helping patients adhere to lifestyle advice, and has been shown to result in 
clinically significant and meaningful improvement of symptoms, risk factors and 
quality of life. Appropriate selection and use of weight management drugs 
requires an understanding of the benefits and risks associated with each of the 
available drugs. Clinical trials are ongoing to determine whether weight 
management interventions (including anti-obesity pharmacotherapy) will impact 
upon clinical outcome and life expectancy.:

Â© 2007 Asian Oceanian Association for the Study of Obesity . Published by 
Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.orcp.2006.12.001
PMID: 24351426


860. Br J Gen Pract. 2013 Dec;63(617):659-60. doi: 10.3399/bjgp13X675584.

The challenge of providing medical care to homeless men.

Watton R(1), Gallivan C(2).

Author information:
(1)GP Partner, White House Surgery, Sheffield.
(2)Former GP Registrar, White House Surgery, Sheffield.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp13X675584
PMCID: PMC3839384
PMID: 24351491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Aust Health Rev. 2014 Feb;38(1):1-5. doi: 10.1071/AH13114.

Health in a 'post-transition' Australia: adding years to life or life to years?

Begg SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)La Trobe Rural Health School, La Trobe University, PO Box 199, Bendigo, Vic. 
3550, Australia. Email:

OBJECTIVE: To explore the likely impact of future trajectories of morbidity and 
mortality in Australia.
METHODS: Estimates of mortality and morbidity were obtained from a previous 
assessment of Australia's health from 1993 to 2003, including projections to 
2023. Outcomes of interest were the difference between life expectancy (LE0) and 
health-adjusted life expectancy (i.e. absolute lost health expectancy (ALHE0)), 
ALHE0 as a proportion of LE0 and the partitioning of changes in ALHE0 into 
additive contributions from changes in age- and cause-specific mortality and 
morbidity.
RESULTS: Actual and projected trajectories of mortality and morbidity resulted 
in an expansion of ALHE0 of 1.22 years between 1993 and 2023, which was 
equivalent to a relative expansion of 0.7% in morbidity over the life course. 
Most (93.8%) of this expansion was accounted for by cardiovascular disease, 
diabetes and cancer; of these, the only unfavourable trend of any note was 
increasing morbidity from diabetes.
CONCLUSIONS: Time spent with morbidity will most likely increase in terms of 
numbers of years lived and as a proportion of the average life span. This 
conclusion is based on the expectation that gains in LE0 will continue to exceed 
gains in ALHE0, and has important implications for public policy. WHAT IS KNOWN 
ABOUT THE TOPIC? Although the aging of Australia's population as a result of 
declining birth and death rates is well understood, its relationship with levels 
of morbidity is not always fully appreciated. This is most noticeable in the 
policy discourse on primary prevention, in which such activities are sometimes 
portrayed as having unrealised potential with respect to alleviating growth in 
health service demand. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD? This paper sheds new light on 
these relationships by exploring the likely impact of future trajectories of 
both morbidity and mortality within an additive partitioning framework. The 
results suggest a modest expansion of morbidity over the life course, most of 
which is accounted for by only three causes. In two of these (cardiovascular 
disease and cancer), the underlying trends in both mortality and morbidity have 
been favourable for some time due, at least in part, to success in primary 
prevention. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTITIONERS? Although there may be 
good arguments in favour of a greater focus on primary prevention as currently 
practiced, reducing overall demand for health services is unlikely to be one of 
them. To make such an argument valid, policy makers should consider shifting 
their attention to the effectiveness of primary prevention as it relates to 
causes other than cardiovascular disease and cancer, particularly those with a 
predominantly non-fatal impact, such as diabetes and degenerative diseases of 
old age.

DOI: 10.1071/AH13114
PMID: 24351770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2014 Apr;133(4):827-840. doi:
10.1097/PRS.0000000000000019.

Economic analysis of revision amputation and replantation treatment of finger 
amputation injuries.

Sears ED(1), Shin R, Prosser LA, Chung KC.

Author information:
(1)Ann Arbor, Mich. From the Section of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, 
and the Department of Pediatrics and Communicable Diseases, University of 
Michigan Health System; and the Veterans Administration Health System.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to perform a cost-utility analysis to 
compare revision amputation and replantation treatment of finger amputation 
injuries across a spectrum of injury scenarios.
METHODS: The study was conducted from the societal perspective. Decision tree 
models were created for the reference case (two-finger amputation injury) and 
seven additional injury scenarios for comparison. Inputs included cost, quality 
of life, and probability of each health state. A Web-based time trade-off survey 
was created to determine quality-adjusted life-years for health states; 685 
nationally representative adult community members were invited to participate in 
the survey. Overall cost and quality-adjusted life-years for revision amputation 
and replantation were calculated for each decision tree. An incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was calculated if a treatment was more costly but more 
effective.
RESULTS: The authors had a 64 percent response rate (n = 437). Replantation 
treatment had greater costs and quality-adjusted life-years compared with 
revision amputation in all injury scenarios. Replantation of single-digit 
injuries had the highest incremental cost-effectiveness ratio ($136,400 per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained). Replantation of three- and four-digit 
amputation injuries had relatively low cost-to-benefit ratios ($27,100 and 
$23,800 per quality-adjusted life-year, respectively). Replantation for distal 
thumb amputation had a relatively low incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
($26,300 per quality-adjusted life-year) compared with replantation of nonthumb 
distal amputations ($60,200 per quality-adjusted life-year).
CONCLUSIONS: The relative cost per quality-adjusted life-year gained with 
replantation treatment varied greatly among the injury scenarios. Situations in 
which indications for replantation are debated had higher cost per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained. This study highlights variability in value 
for replantation among different injury scenarios.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000000019
PMCID: PMC4154255
PMID: 24352209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Oral Health Dent Manag. 2013 Sep;12(3):132-7.

Prevalence based epidemiological cancer statistics: a brief assessment from 
different populations in India.

Sahoo S, Suvarna S, Chandra A(1), Wahi S, Kumar P, Khanna G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Shree Bankey Bihari Dental College and Research 
Centre, Ghaziabad, India, Tel: +91-9412860201; e-mail: 
drprincegupta20032007@gmail.com.

Modern civilization, urbanization, industrialization, changes in daily life, 
population growth and ageing all have contributed to epidemiological changes in 
many diseases, including cancer, in India and other countries. Tobacco has been 
identified as the most important cause of cancer followed by alcohol 
consumption, dietary practices, inadequate physical activity, infections due to 
viruses and sexual behavior. The total number of new cancer cases is increasing 
rapidly, due to growth in size of the population, and an increase in the 
proportion of elderly persons, as a result of improved life expectancy, 
following control of communicable diseases. Such changes in the age structure 
automatically alter the disease pattern associated with ageing and increase the 
burden of problems such as cancer, cardiovascular and other non-communicable 
diseases in the society. Knowledge based on epidemiological patterns and trends 
would be of great help in identifying persons at high risk for the development 
of a particular cancer. Public education on 'tobacco and its health hazards', 
recommended dietary guidelines, safe sexual practices, and lifestyle 
modifications form the scientific basis for planning and organizing prevention, 
diagnosis and treatment of cancer in a community. Moreover, incorporating 
screening for cervical, breast and oral cancers into the peripheral health 
infrastructure can have a significant effect on reducing mortality from these 
diseases. This paper highlights the incidence and prevalence based 
epidemiological cancer statistics, its early detection and prevention measures 
in India.

PMID: 24352303


864. Radiat Environ Biophys. 2014 Mar;53(1):187-202. doi:
10.1007/s00411-013-0503-8.  Epub 2013 Dec 19.

Carbon-14 dynamics in rice: an extension of the ORYZA2000 model.

Galeriu D(1), Melintescu A.

Author information:
(1)Life and Environmental Physics Department, "Horia Hulubei" National Institute 
for Physics and Nuclear Engineering, 30 Reactorului St., POB MG-6, 077125, 
Bucharest-Magurele, Romania.

Carbon-14 ((14)C) is a radionuclide of major interest in nuclear power 
production. The Fukushima accident changed the public attitude on the use of 
nuclear energy all over the world. In terms of nuclear safety, the need of 
quality-assured radiological models was emphasized by many international 
organizations, and for models used by decision-makers (i.e. regulatory 
environmental models and radiological models), a moderate conservatism, 
transparency, relative simplicity and user friendliness are required. Because 
the interaction between crops and the environment is complex and regulated by 
many feedback mechanisms, however, these requirements are difficult to 
accomplish. The present study makes a step forward regarding the development of 
a robust model dealing with food contamination after a short-term accidental 
emission and considers a single crop species, rice (Oryza sativa), one of the 
most widely used rice species. Old and more recent experimental data regarding 
the carbon dynamics in rice plants are reviewed, and a well-established crop 
growth model, ORYZA2000, is used and adapted in order to assess the dynamics of 
(14)C in rice after a short-term exposure to (14)CO(2). Here, the model is used 
to investigate the role of the genotype, management and weather on the 
concentration of radiocarbon at harvest.

DOI: 10.1007/s00411-013-0503-8
PMID: 24352528 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Br J Sports Med. 2014 Feb;48(3):202-6. doi: 10.1136/bjsports-2013-092897.
Epub  2013 Dec 18.

Is brief advice in primary care a cost-effective way to promote physical 
activity?

Anokye NK(1), Lord J, Fox-Rushby J.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group (HERG), Brunel University, , Uxbridge, 
Middlesex, UK.

AIM: This study models the cost-effectiveness of brief advice (BA) in primary 
care for physical activity (PA) addressing the limitations in the current 
limited economic literature through the use of a time-based modelling approach.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to compare the lifetime costs and outcomes of a 
cohort of 100 000 people exposed to BA versus usual care. Health outcomes were 
expressed in terms of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Costs were assessed 
from a health provider perspective (£2010/11 prices). Data to populate the model 
were derived from systematic literature reviews and the literature searches of 
economic evaluations that were conducted for national guidelines. Deterministic 
and probability sensitivity analyses explored the uncertainty in parameter 
estimates including short-term mental health gains associated with PA.
RESULTS: Compared with usual care, BA is more expensive, incurring additional 
costs of £806 809 but it is more effective leading to 466 QALYs gained in the 
total cohort, a QALY gain of 0.0047/person. The incremental cost per QALY of BA 
is £1730 (including mental health gains) and thus can be considered 
cost-effective at a threshold of £20 000/QALY. Most changes in assumptions 
resulted in the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) falling at or below 
£12 000/QALY gained. However, when short-term mental health gains were excluded 
the ICER was £27 000/QALY gained. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed 
that, at a threshold of £20 000/QALY, there was a 99.9% chance that BA would be 
cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: BA is a cost-effective way to improve PA among adults, provided 
short-term mental health gains are considered. Further research is required to 
provide more accurate evidence on factors contributing to the cost-effectiveness 
of BA.

DOI: 10.1136/bjsports-2013-092897
PMCID: PMC3913207
PMID: 24352807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Radiat Prot Dosimetry. 2014 Oct;161(1-4):357-62. doi: 10.1093/rpd/nct335.
Epub  2013 Dec 18.

Radiation burden from secondary doses to patients undergoing radiation therapy 
with photons and light ions and radiation doses from imaging modalities.

Gudowska I(1), Ardenfors O(2), Toma-Dasu I(3), Dasu A(4).

Author information:
(1)Medical Radiation Physics, Department of Physics, Stockholm University, Box 
260, Stockholm 171 76, Sweden irena.gudowska@ki.se.
(2)Medical Radiation Physics, Department of Physics, Stockholm University, Box 
260, Stockholm 171 76, Sweden Department of Medical Physics, Karolinska 
University Hospital, Stockholm 171 76, Sweden.
(3)Medical Radiation Physics, Department of Physics, Stockholm University, Box 
260, Stockholm 171 76, Sweden.
(4)Department of Radiation Physics UHL, County Council of Östergötland, 
Linköping University, Linköping 581 85, Sweden.

Ionising radiation is increasingly used for the treatment of cancer, being the 
source of a considerable fraction of the medical irradiation to patients. With 
the increasing success rate of cancer treatments and longer life expectancy of 
the treated patients, the issue of secondary cancer incidence is of growing 
concern, especially for paediatric patients who may live long after the 
treatment and be more susceptible to carcinogenesis. Also, additional imaging 
procedures like computed tomography, kilovoltage and megavoltage imaging and 
positron emission tomography, alone or in conjunction with radiation therapy, 
may add to the radiation burden associated with the risk of occurrence of 
secondary cancers. This work has been based on literature studies and is 
focussed on the assessment of secondary doses to healthy tissues that are 
delivered by the use of modern radiation therapy and diagnostic imaging 
modalities in the clinical environment.

© The Author 2013. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/rpd/nct335
PMID: 24353029 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. J Popul Econ. 2012 Jul 1;25(3):10.1007/s00148-011-0372-x. doi: 
10.1007/s00148-011-0372-x.

On the dynamics of the age structure, dependency, and consumption.

Hock H(1), Weil DN(2).

Author information:
(1)Mathematica Policy Research, 600 Maryland Avenue SW, Suite 550, Washington, 
DC 20024-2512, USA.
(2)Department of Economics, Brown University, Box B, Providence, RI 02912, USA. 
NBER, Cambridge, MA, USA.

We examine the effects of population aging due to declining fertility and rising 
elderly life expectancy on consumption possibilities in the presence of 
intergenerational transfers. Our analysis is based on a highly tractable 
continuous-time overlapping generations model in which the population is divided 
into three groups (youth dependents, workers, and elderly dependents) and 
lifecourse transitions take place in a probabilistic fashion. We show that the 
consumption-maximizing response to greater longevity in highly developed 
countries is an increase in fertility. However, with larger transfer payments, 
the actual fertility response will likely be the opposite, leading to further 
population aging.

DOI: 10.1007/s00148-011-0372-x
PMCID: PMC3864823
PMID: 24353374


868. Global Spine J. 2012 Dec;2(4):213-20. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1331460. Epub 2012
Dec  6.

Construct Rigidity after Fatigue Loading in Pedicle Subtraction Osteotomy with 
or without Adjacent Interbody Structural Cages.

Deviren V(1), Tang JA(1), Scheer JK(1), Buckley JM(2), Pekmezci M(1), McClellan 
RT(1), Ames CP(3).

Author information:
(1)Biomechanical Testing Facility, San Francisco General Hospital, San 
Francisco, California ; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of 
California, San Francisco, California.
(2)Biomechanical Testing Facility, San Francisco General Hospital, San 
Francisco, California ; Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of 
California, San Francisco, California ; Department of Neurological Surgery, 
University of California, San Francisco, California ; San Francisco Orthopaedic 
Residency Program, St. Mary's Medical Center, San Francisco, California.
(3)Biomechanical Testing Facility, San Francisco General Hospital, San 
Francisco, California ; Department of Neurological Surgery, University of 
California, San Francisco, California.

Introduction Studies document rod fracture in pedicle subtraction osteotomy 
(PSO) settings where disk spaces were preserved above or adjacent to the PSO. 
This study compares the multidirectional bending rigidity and fatigue life of 
PSO segments with or without interbody support. Methods Twelve specimens 
received bilateral T12-S1 posterior fixation and L3 PSO. Six received extreme 
lateral interbody fusion (XLIF) cages in addition to PSO at L2-L3 and L3-L4; six 
had PSO only. Flexion-extension, lateral bending, and axial rotation (AR) tests 
were conducted up to 7.5 Newton-meters (Nm) for groups: (1) posterior fixation, 
(2) L3 PSO, (3) addition of cages (six specimens). Relative motion across the 
osteotomy (L2-L4) and entire fixation site (T12-S1) was measured. All specimens 
were then fatigue tested for 35K cycles. Results Regardingmultiaxial bending, 
there was a significant 25.7% reduction in AR range of motion across L2-L4 
following addition of cages. Regarding fatigue bending, dynamic stiffness, 
though not significant (p = 0.095), was 22.2% greater in the PSO + XLIF group 
than in the PSO-only group. Conclusions Results suggest that placement of 
interbody cages in PSO settings has a potential stabilizing effect, which is 
modestly evident in the acute setting. Inserting cages in a second-stage surgery 
remains a viable option and may benefit patients in terms of recovery but 
additional clinical studies are necessary to confirm this.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1331460
PMCID: PMC3864425
PMID: 24353970

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures Vedat Deviren, Consulting: NuVasive, 
Stryker, Medtronic, Synthes, Guidepoint; Research Support: NuVasive; Fellowship 
Support, Indirect institutional support OREF Omega, AOSpine, Globus, NuVasive 
Jessica A. Tang, None Justin K. Scheer, None Jenni M. Buckley, Research Support 
- Investigator Salary: Stryker Spine; Research Support - Staff and/or Materials: 
DePuy Spine; Grants: NuVasive Murat Pekmezci, Research Support Grants: Stryker, 
NuVasive R. Trigg McClellan, Device or Biologic Distributorship (Physician-Owned 
Distributorship): PDP Holdings; Stock Ownership: Biomineral Holdings; Private 
Investments: Total Connect Spine, Anthem Orthopaedics, PDP Holdings; Consulting: 
Advanced Biologics Corporation, Skeletal Kinetics; Board of Directors: Northern 
California Chapter, Western Orthopaedic Association, PDP Holdings, Anthem 
Orthopaedics; Scientific Advisory Board: Anthem Orthopaedics; Research Support - 
Staff and/or Materials: NuVasive Christopher P. Ames, Consulting: DePuy, 
Medtronic, Stryker; Employment, UCSF; Grants/grants pending: Trans1; Patents: 
Fish & Richardson, PC; Royalties, LANX, AESCULAP; Stock/stock options: Trans1, 
Visualase, Doctors Research Group


869. Vopr Virusol. 2013 Jul-Aug;58(4):39-43.

[A comparative study of the antiviral activity of chemical compounds concerning 
the orthopoxviruses experiments in vivo].

[Article in Russian]

Kabanov AS, Sergeev AA, Shishkina LN, Bulychev LE, Skarnovich MO, Sergeev AA, 
Bormotov NI, P'iankov OV, Serova OA, Bodnev SA, Selivanov BA, Tikhonov AIa, 
Agafonov AP, Sergeev AN.

In the experiments using intranasal (i/n) infection of mice with the ectromelia 
virus (EV) in a dose 10 LD50/head (10 x 50% lethal doselhead) or with the 
monkaypox virus (MPXV) in a dose 10 ID50/head (10 x 50% infective dose/ head) it 
was demonstrated that the antiviral efficiency of chemical compounds - the 
condensed derivatives of pyrrolidin-2,5-dion, as well as their predecessors and 
the nearest analogues, synthesized in Novosibirsk Institute of Organic Chemistry 
of the Siberian Branch of the Russian Academy of Sciences (NIOCH SB RAS) was 
observed. As a positive control we used the antipoxvirus chemical preparation 
ST-246 available from SIGA Technologies Inc. (USA), synthesized in NIOCH SB RAS 
by the technique suggested by the authors. It was demonstrated that the compound 
NIOCH-14 
(7-[N'-(4-Trifluoromethylbenzoil)-hydrazidecarbonil]-tricyclo[3.2.2.02,4]non-8-en-6-carbonic 
acid) possessed comparable with ST-246 antiviral activity concerning EV and MPXV 
on all indicators used. Therefore, at infection of mice with EV (strain K-1) and 
peroral administration of NIOCH-14 and ST-246 in a dose 50 mkg/g of mouse weight 
(12-14 g) within 10 days the survival rate and average life expectancy of mice 
authentically exceeded the control levels. EV titers in lungs through 6 days 
after infection in the same groups were lower than in the control. In addition 
to that, after 7 days of infection of mice with MPXV (strain V79-1-005) and 
daily peroral administration of NIOCH-14 and ST-246 in a dose 60 mkg/g of mouse 
weight (9-11 g) authentic decrease in a part of infected animals and MPXV titers 
in lungs was observed.

PMID: 24354064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Curr Drug Targets. 2013 Dec;14(14):1651-8. doi: 
10.2174/1389450114666131217113759.

Osteoporotic fracture healing: potential use of medicinal plants from the 
tropics.

Abdul Jalil MA, Shuid AN, Muhammad N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology, Faculty of Medicine, Universiti Kebangsaan 
Malaysia, Jalan Raja Muda Abdul Aziz, 50300 Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia. 
norliza_ssp@yahoo.com.

With improvements in living standards and healthcare, life expectancy has been 
increasing dramatically in most parts of the world. These situations lead to the 
increase in the reported cases of geriatrics-related diseases such as 
hypogonadal osteoporosis with skeletal fracture being the ultimate outcome, 
which eventually causes significant morbidity and mortality. The deficient 
gonadal hormones, which are the main cause of hypogonadal osteoporosis, could be 
substituted with hormone replacement therapy to hinder bone loss. However, the 
artificial hormonal therapy has been linked to grievous conditions such as 
breast and prostate cancers. In view of the various adverse effects associated 
with conventional treatment, many researchers are now focusing on finding 
alternative remedies from nature. This article explores the possibilities of 
certain medicinal plants native to Malaysia that possess androgenic and 
antioxidant properties to potentially be used in the treatment of fracture due 
to osteoporosis in ageing people.

DOI: 10.2174/1389450114666131217113759
PMID: 24354586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Orphanet J Rare Dis. 2013 Dec 20;8:195. doi: 10.1186/1750-1172-8-195.

Specific cancer rates may differ in patients with hereditary haemorrhagic 
telangiectasia compared to controls.

Hosman AE, Devlin HL, Silva BM, Shovlin CL(1).

Author information:
(1)NHLI Cardiovascular Sciences, Imperial College London, London, UK. 
c.shovlin@imperial.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Hereditary haemorrhagic telangiectasia (HHT) is inherited as an 
autosomal dominant trait, affects ~1 in 5,000, and causes multi-systemic 
vascular lesions and life-limiting complications. Life expectancy is 
surprisingly good, particularly for patients over 60ys. We hypothesised that 
individuals with HHT may be protected against life-limiting cancers.
METHODS: To compare specific cancer rates in HHT patients and controls, we 
developed a questionnaire capturing data on multiple relatives per respondent, 
powered to detect differences in the four most common solid non skin cancers 
(breast, colorectal, lung and prostate), each associated with significant 
mortality. Blinded to cancer responses, reports of HHT-specific features allowed 
assignment of participants and relatives as HHT-subjects, unknowns, or controls. 
Logistic and quadratic regressions were used to compare rates of specific cancer 
types between HHT subjects and controls.
RESULTS: 1,307 participants completed the questionnaire including 1,007 
HHT-subjects and 142 controls. The rigorous HHT diagnostic algorithm meant that 
158 (12%) completed datasets were not assignable either to HHT or control 
status. For cancers predominantly recognised as primary cancers, the rates in 
the controls generally matched age-standardised rates for the general 
population. HHT subjects recruited through the survey had similar demographics 
to controls, although the HHT group reported a significantly greater smoking 
habit. Combining data of participants and uniquely-reported relatives resulted 
in an HHT-arm of 2,161 (58% female), and control-arm of 2,817 (52% female), with 
median ages of 66ys [IQR 53-77] and 77ys [IQR 65-82] respectively. In both crude 
and age-adjusted regression, lung cancers were significantly less frequent in 
the HHT arm than controls (age-adjusted odds ratio 0.48 [0.30, 0.70], p = 
0.0012). Breast cancer prevalence was higher in HHT than controls (age-adjusted 
OR 1.52 [1.07, 2.14], p = 0.018). Overall, prostate and colorectal cancer rates 
were equivalent, but the pattern of colorectal cancer was modified, with a 
higher prevalence in younger HHT patients than controls.
CONCLUSIONS: These preliminary survey data suggest clinically significant 
differences in the rates of lung, breast and colorectal cancer in HHT patients 
compared to controls. For rare diseases in which longitudinal studies take 
decades to recruit equivalent datasets, this type of methodology provides a good 
first-step method for data collection.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-1172-8-195
PMCID: PMC3891994
PMID: 24354965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Theor Biol. 2014 Apr 7;346:86-108. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2013.12.004. Epub
2013  Dec 16.

Modeling the morphodynamic galectin patterning network of the developing avian 
limb skeleton.

Glimm T(1), Bhat R(2), Newman SA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, Western Washington University, Bellingham, WA 
98229, USA. Electronic address: glimmt@wwu.edu.
(2)Life Sciences Division, Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA 
94720, USA. Electronic address: RBhat@lbl.gov.
(3)Department of Cell Biology & Anatomy, Basic Sciences Building, Valhalla, NY 
10595, USA. Electronic address: newman@nymc.edu.

We present a mathematical model for the morphogenesis and patterning of the 
mesenchymal condensations that serve as primordia of the avian limb skeleton. 
The model is based on the experimentally established dynamics of a multiscale 
regulatory network consisting of two glycan-binding proteins expressed early in 
limb development: CG (chicken galectin)-1A, CG-8 and their counterreceptors that 
determine the formation, size, number and spacing of the "protocondensations" 
that give rise to the condensations and subsequently the cartilaginous elements 
that serve as the templates of the bones. The model, a system of partial 
differential and integro-differential equations containing a flux term to 
represent local adhesion gradients, is simulated in a "full" and a "reduced" 
form to confirm that the system has pattern-forming capabilities and to explore 
the nature of the patterning instability. The full model recapitulates 
qualitatively and quantitatively the experimental results of network 
perturbation and leads to new predictions, which are verified by further 
experimentation. The reduced model is used to demonstrate that the patterning 
process is inherently morphodynamic, with cell motility being intrinsic to it. 
Furthermore, subtle relationships between cell movement and the positive and 
negative interactions between the morphogens produce regular patterns without 
the requirement for activators and inhibitors with widely separated diffusion 
coefficients. The described mechanism thus represents an extension of the 
category of activator-inhibitor processes capable of generating biological 
patterns with repetitive elements beyond the morphostatic mechanisms of the 
Turing/Gierer-Meinhardt type.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2013.12.004
PMID: 24355216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Gene. 2014 Feb 25;536(2):362-5. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.11.059. Epub 2013
Dec  16.

A novel homozygous no-stop mutation in G6PC gene from a Chinese patient with 
glycogen storage disease type Ia.

Gu LL(1), Li XH(1), Han Y(1), Zhang DH(1), Gong QM(2), Zhang XX(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, Institute of Infectious and Respiratory 
Diseases, Rui Jin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, China; Sino-French Laboratory of Life Science and Genomics, Rui Jin 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Infectious Diseases, Institute of Infectious and Respiratory 
Diseases, Rui Jin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, China. Electronic address: gongqm@hotmail.cm.
(3)Department of Infectious Diseases, Institute of Infectious and Respiratory 
Diseases, Rui Jin Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, 
Shanghai, China; Sino-French Laboratory of Life Science and Genomics, Rui Jin 
Hospital, Shanghai Jiaotong University School of Medicine, Shanghai, China. 
Electronic address: zhangx@shsmu.edu.cn.

Glycogen storage disease type Ia (GSD-Ia) is an autosomal recessive genetic 
disorder resulting in hypoglycemia, hepatomegaly and growth retardation. It is 
caused by mutations in the G6PC gene encoding Glucose-6-phosphatase. To date, 
over 80 mutations have been identified in the G6PC gene. Here we reported a 
novel mutation found in a Chinese patient with abnormal transaminases, 
hypoglycemia, hepatomegaly and short stature. Direct sequencing of the coding 
region and splicing-sites in the G6PC gene revealed a novel no-stop mutation, 
p.*358Yext*43, leading to a 43 amino-acid extension of G6Pase. The expression 
level of mutant G6Pase transcripts was only 7.8% relative to wild-type 
transcripts. This mutation was not found in 120 chromosomes from 60 unrelated 
healthy control subjects using direct sequencing, and was further confirmed by 
digestion with Rsa I restriction endonuclease. In conclusion, we revealed a 
novel no-stop mutation in this study which expands the spectrum of mutations in 
the G6PC gene. The molecular genetic analysis was indispensable to the diagnosis 
of GSD-Ia for the patient.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2013.11.059
PMID: 24355556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Med Clin (Barc). 2015 Feb 20;144(4):151-5. doi:
10.1016/j.medcli.2013.09.035.  Epub 2013 Dec 17.

C allele of the rs2209972 single nucleotide polymorphism of the insulin 
degrading enzyme gene and Alzheimer's disease in type 2 diabetes, a case control 
study.

Gutiérrez-Hermosillo H(1), Díaz De León-González E(2), Palacios-Corona R(3), 
Cedillo-Rodríguez JA(4), Camacho-Luis A(5), Reyes-Romero MA(5), Medina-Chávez 
JH(6), Blandón PA(7).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Geriatría, UMAE 1 CMN del Bajío, Instituto Mexicano del 
Seguro Social, Hospital Aranda de la Parra, León, Guanajuato, Mexico. Electronic 
address: hugocus@hotmail.com.
(2)Departamento de Geriatría, UMAE 21 Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, 
Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico.
(3)Centro de Investigaciones Biomédicas del Noreste, Instituto Mexicano del 
Seguro Social, León, Guanajuato, Mexico.
(4)Departamento de Medicina Interna, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, 
Monterrey, Nuevo León, Mexico.
(5)Departamento de Posgrado, Facultad de Medicina, Centro de Investigación en 
Alimentos y Nutrición-FAMEN, Universidad Juárez del Estado de Durango, Durango, 
Mexico.
(6)Departamento de Geriatría, UMAE 1 CMN del Bajío, Instituto Mexicano del 
Seguro Social, Hospital Aranda de la Parra, León, Guanajuato, Mexico.
(7)Department of Internal Medicine, Paul L. Foster School of Medicine, Texas 
Tech University, El Paso, TX, United States of America.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: In the last few decades we have witnessed an 
interesting transformation of the population pyramids throughout the world. As 
the population's life expectancy increases, there are more chronic diseases such 
as diabetes mellitus and dementias, and both of them have shown an association.
GENERAL OBJETIVE: To determine the association between Alzheimer's disease in 
diabetic patients and the insulin degrading enzyme in outpatients of a second 
level Hospital in Monterrey, Mexico.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This was a case control study in which we included 
outpatients from the Geriatrics Clinic of a Hospital in Northeastern Mexico. 
Cases were patients with a Mini Mental Score Exam (MMSE) below 24 and DSM-IV 
criteria for Dementia. Controls were patients who had MMSE scores greater than 
24.
RESULTS: Data from 97 patients were analyzed. Regarding physical examination and 
the results of laboratory tests, there were no differences between the two 
groups (p>0.05). A 98% prevalence of the insulin degrading enzyme was documented 
in the sample studied. We found an association between a homozygous status for 
the CC genotype and Dementia with an estimated Odds Ratio (OR) of 2.5 (CI 95% 
1.6-3.3) on the bivariate test, while, on the multivariate analysis, the OR was 
estimated 3.3 (CI 95% 1.3-8.2).
CONCLUSIONS: Evidence shows that cognitive impairment is more frequent among 
those exposed to the C allele of the rs2209972 SNP of the insulin degrading 
enzyme gene.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.medcli.2013.09.035
PMID: 24355596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Am J Prev Med. 2014 Jan;46(1):71-9. doi: 10.1016/j.amepre.2013.08.016.

Health and economic impact of breast cancer mortality in young women, 1970-2008.

Ekwueme DU(1), Guy GP Jr(2), Rim SH(2), White A(2), Hall IJ(2), Fairley TL(2), 
Dean HD(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic 
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Atlanta, Georgia. Electronic address: 
dce3@cdc.gov.
(2)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic 
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Atlanta, Georgia.
(3)Office of the Director, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral Hepatitis, STD, 
and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease and Control Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the second-leading cause of cancer-related deaths 
among women aged <50 years. Studies on the effects of breast cancer mortality 
among young women are limited.
PURPOSE: To assess trends in breast cancer mortality rates among women aged 
20-49 years, estimate years of potential life lost (YPLL), and the value of 
productivity losses due to premature mortality.
METHODS: Age-adjusted rates and rate ratios (RRs) were calculated using 
1970-2008 U.S. mortality data. Breast cancer mortality rates over time were 
assessed using Joinpoint regression modeling. YPLL was calculated using number 
of cancer deaths and the remaining life expectancy at the age of death. Value of 
productivity losses was estimated using the number of deaths and the present 
value of future lifetime earnings.
RESULTS: From 1970 to 2008, the age-adjusted breast cancer mortality rate among 
young women was 12.02/100,000. Rates were higher in the Northeast (RR=1.03, 95% 
CI, 1.02-1.04). The annual decline in breast cancer mortality rates among blacks 
was smaller (-0.68%) compared with whites (-2.02%). The total number of deaths 
associated with breast cancer was 225,866, which accounted for an estimated 7.98 
million YPLL. The estimated total productivity loss in 2008 was $5.49 billion 
and individual lifetime lost earnings were $1.10 million.
CONCLUSIONS: Considering the effect of breast cancer on women of working age and 
the disproportionate impact on black women, more age-appropriate interventions 
with multiple strategies are needed to help reduce these substantial health and 
economic burdens, improve survival, and in turn reduce productivity costs 
associated with premature death.

Published by American Journal of Preventive Medicine on behalf of American 
Journal of Preventive Medicine.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2013.08.016
PMCID: PMC5836720
PMID: 24355674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Arch Bronconeumol. 2014 Jan;50(1):25-33. doi: 10.1016/j.arbres.2013.11.010.
Epub  2013 Dec 17.

Comorbidities impacting on prognosis after lung transplant.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Vaquero Barrios JM(1), Redel Montero J(2), Santos Luna F(2).

Author information:
(1)Unidades de Gestión Clínica de Neumología, Cirugía Torácica y Trasplante 
Pulmonar, Hospital Universitario Reina Sofía, Córdoba, España. Electronic 
address: vaquerosenior@gmail.com.
(2)Unidades de Gestión Clínica de Neumología, Cirugía Torácica y Trasplante 
Pulmonar, Hospital Universitario Reina Sofía, Córdoba, España.

Comment in
    Arch Bronconeumol. 2013 Dec;49(12):501-2.

The aim of this review is to give an overview of the clinical circumstances 
presenting before lung transplant that may have negative repercussions on the 
long and short-term prognosis of the transplant. Methods for screening and 
diagnosis of common comorbidities with negative impact on the prognosis of the 
transplant are proposed, both for pulmonary and extrapulmonary diseases, and 
measures aimed at correcting these factors are discussed. Coordination and 
information exchange between referral centers and transplant centers would allow 
these comorbidities to be detected and corrected, with the aim of minimizing the 
risks and improving the life expectancy of transplant receivers.

Copyright © 2013 SEPAR. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arbres.2013.11.010
PMID: 24355755 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Jan;32(1):15-27. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0117-7.

Review of models used in economic analyses of new oral treatments for type 2 
diabetes mellitus.

Asche CV(1), Hippler SE, Eurich DT.

Author information:
(1)Center for Outcomes Research, University of Illinois College of Medicine at 
Peoria, One Illini Drive, Peoria, IL, 61656-1649, USA, cva@uic.edu.

BACKGROUND: Economic models are considered to be important, as they help 
evaluate the long-term impact of diabetes treatment. To date, it appears that no 
article has reviewed and critically appraised the cost-effectiveness models 
developed to evaluate new oral treatments [glucagon-like peptide-1 (GLP-1) 
receptor agonists and dipeptidyl peptidase-4 (DPP-4) inhibitors] for type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM).
OBJECTIVES: This study aimed to provide insight into the utilization of 
cost-effectiveness modelling methods. The focus of our study was aimed at the 
applicability of these models, particularly around the major assumptions related 
to the clinical parameters (glycated haemoglobin [A1c], systolic blood pressure 
[SBP], lipids and weight) used in the models, and subsequent clinical outcomes.
METHODS: MEDLINE and EMBASE were searched from 1 January 2004 to 14 February 
2013 in order to identify published cost-effectiveness evaluations for the 
treatment of T2DM by new oral treatments (GLP-1 receptor agonists and DPP-4 
inhibitors). Once identified, the articles were reviewed and grouped together 
according to the type of model. The following data were captured for each study: 
comparators; country; evaluation and key cost drivers; time horizon; 
perspective; discounting rates; currency/year; cost-effectiveness threshold, 
sensitivity analysis; and cost-effectiveness analysis curves.
RESULTS: A total of 15 studies were identified in our review. Nearly all of the 
models utilized a health care payer perspective and provided a lifetime horizon. 
The CORE Diabetes Model, UK Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Outcomes Model, 
Cardiff Diabetes Model, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) 
Diabetes Cost-Effectiveness Group Model and Diabetes Mellitus Model were cited. 
With the exception of two studies, all of the studies made significant 
assumptions surrounding the impact of GLP-1 receptor agonists or DPP-4 
inhibitors on clinical parameters and subsequent short- and long-term outcomes. 
Moreover, often the differences in the clinical parameters were relatively small 
(e.g. 1 or 2 mmHg in blood pressure) and would not be considered by many as 
clinically important. Yet, the impact of these small clinical changes often 
resulted in large lifetime changes in health outcomes in the models. In 
particular, many studies assumed that changes in weight associated with the 
therapies would equate to improved outcomes, despite limited evidence for this 
assumption. Although the new oral treatments were regarded as cost effective in 
most studies based upon the studies reviewed, the validity of these projections, 
particularly for the longer time frames, is questionable. Indeed, although most 
of these studies have been conducted in the last 5 years, recent trial evidence 
has already questioned the validity of most of these studies.
CONCLUSION: It is clear that a number of changes are required in the evaluation 
of diabetes therapies. First and foremost, the basic models need to be updated 
to include contemporary important clinical trial data assessing hard clinical 
outcomes in patients with diabetes. Second, there should be less emphasis on 
40-year or lifetime costs and consequences of the therapies and a greater focus 
on short-term (5-year) and intermediate-term (10-year) outcomes. Practice is 
continually evolving, and the probability that these models would provide any 
valid predictions beyond 10 years is remote. Third, all modellers should 
immediately remove the basic assumption that small clinically inconsequential 
changes in A1c, SBP, lipids and weight result in major clinical improvements in 
patients. Future models should aim to include all relevant treatment outcomes, 
whether these relate to effects on underlying diabetes and its complications or 
to short- or long-term side effects of treatment. We need to explore why 
cost-saving interventions could benefit further from adding patient 
characteristics, which may be able to better predict the use of lower-cost 
alternatives. Moreover, the vast array of different clinical, cost and utility 
data used in the different models reviewed makes it apparent that a uniform 
methodology should be developed for diabetes economic models. In this manner, 
future models could be run using the same data, which would allow for more 
acceptable comparability between studies.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0117-7
PMID: 24357160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Am J Med Genet A. 2014 Mar;164A(3):789-95. doi: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36348. Epub
2013  Dec 19.

Expanding the clinical phenotype of patients with a ZDHHC9 mutation.

Masurel-Paulet A(1), Kalscheuer VM, Lebrun N, Hu H, Levy F, Thauvin-Robinet C, 
Darmency-Stamboul V, El Chehadeh S, Thevenon J, Chancenotte S, Ruffier-Bourdet 
M, Bonnet M, Pinoit JM, Huet F, Desportes V, Chelly J, Faivre L.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Génétique et Centre de Référence Anomalies du développement et 
Syndromes Malformatifs, Hôpital d'Enfants, CHU, Dijon, France.

In 2007, 250 families with X-linked intellectual disability (XLID) were screened 
for mutations in genes on the X-chromosome, and in 4 of these families, 
mutations in the ZDHHC9 gene were identified. The ID was either isolated or 
associated with a marfanoid habitus. ZDHHC9 encodes a palmitoyl transferase that 
catalyzes the posttranslational modification of NRAS and HRAS. Since this first 
description, no additional patient with a ZDHHC9 mutation has been reported in 
the literature. Here, we describe a large family in which we identified a novel 
pathogenic ZDHHC9 nonsense mutation (p.Arg298*) by parallel sequencing of all 
X-chromosome exons. The mutation cosegregated with the clinical phenotype in 
this family. An 18-year-old patient and his 40-year-old maternal uncle were 
evaluated. Clinical examination showed normal growth parameters, lingual 
fasciculation, limited extension of the elbows and metacarpophalangeal joints, 
and acrocyanosis. There was neither facial dysmorphism nor marfanoid habitus. 
Brain MRI detected a dysplastic corpus callosum. Neuropsychological testing 
showed mild intellectual disability. They both displayed generalized anxiety 
disorder, and the younger patient also suffered from significant behavior 
impairment that required attention or treatment. Speech evaluation detected 
satisfactory spoken language since both were able to provide information and to 
understand conversations of everyday life. Occupational therapy examination 
showed impaired visual-spatial and visual-motor performance with poor 
drawing/graphic skills. These manifestations are not specific enough to guide 
ZDHHC9 screening in patients with ID, and emphasize the value of next generation 
sequencing for making a molecular diagnosis and genetic counseling in families 
with XLID.

© 2013 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajmg.a.36348
PMID: 24357419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. PLoS One. 2013 Dec 16;8(12):e84152. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084152. 
eCollection 2013.

Factors associated with quality of life among hemodialysis patients in Malaysia.

Md Yusop NB(1), Yoke Mun C(1), Shariff ZM(1), Beng Huat C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, Faculty of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, Universiti Putra Malaysia, Serdang, Selangor, Malaysia.
(2)Department of Medicine, Manipal Medical Collage, Melaka, Malaysia.

Although hemodialysis treatment has greatly increased the life expectancy of end 
stage renal disease patients, low quality of life among hemodialysis patients is 
frequently reported. This cross-sectional study aimed to determine the 
relationship between medical history, hemodialysis treatment and nutritional 
status with the mental and physical components of quality of life in 
hemodialysis patients. Respondents (n=90) were recruited from Hospital Kuala 
Lumpur and dialysis centres of the National Kidney Foundation of Malaysia. Data 
obtained included socio-demography, medical history, hemodialysis treatment and 
nutritional status. Mental and physical quality of life were measured using the 
Mental Composite Summary (MCS) and Physical Composite Summary (PCS) of the 
Short-Form Health Survey 36-items, a generic core of the Kidney Disease Quality 
of Life Short Form. Two summary measures and total SF-36 was scored as 0-100, 
with a higher score indicating better quality of life. Approximately 26 (30%) of 
respondents achieved the body mass index (24 kg/m(2)) and more than 80% (n=77) 
achieved serum albumin level (>35.0 mg/dL) recommended for hemodialysis 
patients. The majority of respondents did not meet the energy (n=72, 80%) and 
protein (n=68,75%) recommendations. The total score of SF-36 was 54.1 ± 19.2, 
while the score for the mental and physical components were 45.0 ± 8.6 and 39.6 
± 8.6, respectively. Factors associated with a higher MCS score were absence of 
diabetes mellitus (p=0.000) and lower serum calcium (p=0.004), while higher 
blood flow (p=0.000), higher serum creatinine (p=0.000) and lower protein intake 
(p=0.006) were associated with a higher PCS score. To improve the overall 
quality of life of hemodialysis patients, a multidisciplinary intervention that 
includes medical, dietetic and psychosocial strategies that address factors 
associated with mental and physical quality of life are warranted to reduce 
further health complications and to improve quality of life.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084152
PMCID: PMC3865310
PMID: 24358336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


880. F1000Res. 2012 Oct 19;1:32. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.1-32.v1. eCollection
 2012.

Ankylosis of the hips and knees due to sickle cell disease.

Al Elayan SS(1), Al Hamdan A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, Prince Sultan Military Medical City, Riyadh, 
11612, Saudi Arabia.

This is a case report of a 29-year-old Saudi male with sickle cell disease (SCD) 
with severe stiffness of his joints, mainly both knees and hips, secondary to 
complications of SCD. He was severely crippled: unable to sit, stand or walk, 
and was bedridden for 8 years when he was presented to us. Radiographs showed 
fusion of both knees and hips. There was no evidence of active osteomyelitis by 
Gallium scan. The patient's hemoglobin S decreased to levels below 30% by 
exchange transfusion. Bilateral total hip replacement, as well as unilateral 
total knee replacement, was carried out to improve his level of function. There 
is only one reported case of such severe and multiple joint complications in a 
single patient suffering from SCD. The increased life expectancy that medical 
advances have offered to the sickle-cell patients has led to the appearance of 
sickle-cell-related complications, which were previously only seen rarely. These 
complications were successfully managed and the patient was able to move and 
transfer using a wheel chair.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.1-32.v1
PMCID: PMC3814913
PMID: 24358837

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: No competing interests were 
disclosed.


881. Healthc Policy. 2013 Nov;9(2):36-50.

Economic evaluation of Manitoba Health Lines in the management of congestive 
heart failure.

Cui Y(1), Doupe M(2), Katz A(3), Nyhof P(4), Forget EL(5).

Author information:
(1)PhD Student, Department of Community Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB.
(2)Associate Professor, Department of Community Health Sciences, Senior Research 
Scientist, Manitoba Centre for Health Policy, University of Manitoba Winnipeg, 
MB.
(3)Professor, Departments of Family Medicine and Community Health Sciences, 
Associate Director for Research, Manitoba Centre for Health Policy, University 
of Manitoba Winnipeg, MB.
(4)Chief Executive Officer, Providence Place, Faculty of Business 
Administration, I.H. Asper School of Business, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, 
MB.
(5)Professor, Department of Community Health Sciences, Faculty of Medicine, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, MB.

OBJECTIVE: This one-year study investigated whether the Manitoba Provincial 
Health Contact program for congestive heart failure (CHF) is a cost-effective 
intervention relative to the standard treatment.
DESIGN: Individual patient-level, randomized clinical trial of cost-effective 
