65.73) after the potential confounders were considered. Female or younger 
patients with ON were associated with a significantly elevated risk of 
developing MS. This study found that Taiwanese patients with ON are at a 
substantially high relative risk of developing MS. In addition to patients with 
ON, female and younger people should also receive intensive neurological care to 
further reduce their risk of developing MS.

DOI: 10.1620/tjem.231.171
PMID: 24172640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Int J Cancer. 2014 May 1;134(9):2264-8. doi: 10.1002/ijc.28541. Epub 2013
Oct  31.

Potential cost-effectiveness of the nonavalent human papillomavirus (HPV) 
vaccine.

Drolet M(1), Laprise JF, Boily MC, Franco EL, Brisson M.

Author information:
(1)Centre de recherche du CHU de Québec, Axe Santé des populations et pratiques 
optimales en santé, Québec, Canada, G1S 4L8; Département de médecine sociale et 
préventive, Université Laval, Québec, Canada, G1V 0A6.

Randomized clinical trials are currently examining the efficacy of a nonavalent 
human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccine, including HPV-types 
6/11/16/18/31/33/45/52/58. Evidence on the cost-effectiveness of the nonavalent 
is required for timely policy-decisions. We compared the potential 
cost-effectiveness of the nonavalent and quadrivalent HPV vaccines. We used a 
multi-type individual-based transmission-dynamic model of HPV infection and 
diseases, 70-year time-horizon, 3% discount rate and healthcare payer 
perspective. We calibrated the model to Canadian sexual behavior and 
epidemiologic data, and estimated Quality-Adjusted Life-Years (QALYs) lost and 
costs ($CAN 2010) from the literature. Under base-case assumptions (vaccinating 
10-year-old girls, 80% coverage, 95$/dose, vaccine-type efficacy = 95%, 
cross-protection for the quadrivalent vaccine, duration of vaccine-type 
protection (cross-protection) = 20 (10) years), using the quadrivalent and 
nonavalent vaccines is estimated to cost $15,528 [12,056; 19,140] and $12,203 
[9,331; 17,292] per QALY-gained, respectively. At equal price, the nonavalent 
vaccine is more cost-effective than the quadrivalent vaccine, even when assuming 
both shorter duration of protection (nonavalent = 20 years vs. quadrivalent = 
lifelong) and lower vaccine-type efficacy (nonavalent = 85% vs. quadrivalent = 
95%). However, the additional cost per dose of the nonavalent vaccine should not 
exceed $11 to remain more cost-effective than the quadrivalent vaccine, and $24 
to represent a cost-effective alternative to the quadrivalent vaccine (using a 
$40,000/QALY-gained threshold). The nonavalent vaccine can be a cost-effective 
alternative to the quadrivalent vaccine, even in scenarios where nonavalent 
vaccine efficacy is 85%. However, because most cervical cancers are caused by 
HPV-16/18, it is unlikely that the nonavalent would be used if its efficacy 
against these types is lower than current HPV vaccines.

© 2013 UICC.

DOI: 10.1002/ijc.28541
PMID: 24174175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. Nucleic Acids Res. 2014 Feb;42(3):1541-52. doi: 10.1093/nar/gkt1006. Epub
2013  Oct 29.

Telomeric repeats act as nucleosome-disfavouring sequences in vivo.

Ichikawa Y(1), Morohashi N, Nishimura Y, Kurumizaka H, Shimizu M.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Structural Biology, Graduate School of Advanced Science and 
Engineering/RISE, Waseda University, 2-2 Wakamatsu-cho, Shinjuku-ku, Tokyo 
162-8640, Japan, Program in Chemistry and Life Science, School of Science and 
Engineering, Department of Chemistry, Graduate School of Science and 
Engineering, Meisei University, 2-1-1 Hodokubo, Hino, Tokyo 191-8506, Japan and 
Graduate School of Medical Life Science, Yokohama City University, 1-7-29 
Suehiro-cho, Tsurumi-ku, Yokohama 230-0045, Japan.

Telomeric DNAs consist of tandem repeats of G-clusters such as TTAGGG and TG1-3, 
which are the human and yeast repeat sequences, respectively. In the yeast 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae, the telomeric repeats are non-nucleosomal, whereas in 
humans, they are organized in tightly packaged nucleosomes. However, previous in 
vitro studies revealed that the binding affinities of human and yeast telomeric 
repeat sequences to histone octamers in vitro were similar, which is apparently 
inconsistent with the differences in the human and yeast telomeric chromatin 
structures. To further investigate the relationship between telomeric sequences 
and chromatin structure, we examined the effect of telomeric repeats on the 
formation of positioned nucleosomes in vivo by indirect end-label mapping, 
primer extension mapping and nucleosome repeat analyses, using a defined 
minichromosome in yeast cells. We found that the human and yeast telomeric 
repeat sequences both disfavour nucleosome assembly and alter nucleosome 
positioning in the yeast minichromosome. We further demonstrated that the 
G-clusters in the telomeric repeats are required for the nucleosome-disfavouring 
properties. Thus, our results suggest that this inherent structural feature of 
the telomeric repeat sequences is involved in the functional dynamics of the 
telomeric chromatin structure.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkt1006
PMCID: PMC3919577
PMID: 24174540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. J Saudi Heart Assoc. 2013 Apr;25(2):99-101. doi: 10.1016/j.jsha.2012.10.001.
 Epub 2012 Oct 26.

Simple D-transposition of great arteries operated at the age of 11 years.

Asfalou I(1), Touati Z, Amri R, Cherti M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology B, CHU Ibn Sina, Souissi 10170, Rabat, Morocco.

The simple transposition of the great arteries is a lethal congenital heart 
disease. The life expectancy of unoperated patients is about 9 months. We report 
the original observation of a girl with unoperated simple transposition of the 
great arteries, who survived until the age of 11 years. An atrial switch was 
successfully performed according to the technique of Senning-Mustard.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsha.2012.10.001
PMCID: PMC3809498
PMID: 24174855


419. World J Transplant. 2012 Feb 24;2(1):5-8. doi: 10.5500/wjt.v2.i1.5.

Long-term renal function, complications and life expectancy in living kidney 
donors.

Okamoto M(1).

Author information:
(1)Masahiko Okamoto, Department of Surgery, Akita Hospital, Chiryu 472-0056, 
Japan.

Living kidney transplantation is now a widely accepted treatment for end stage 
renal disease (ESRD) because it provides excellent outcomes for recipients. 
However, long-term outcomes of living kidney donors have not been well 
understood. Because securing the safety of the donor is essential to the 
continued success of this procedure, we reviewed articles discussing long-term 
outcomes of living kidney donors. Most studies found no decrease in long-term 
survival or progressive renal dysfunction in previous kidney donors. Moreover, 
the prevalence of hypertension was comparable to that expected in the general 
population, although some did report otherwise. Urinary protein showed small 
increases in this population and was associated with hypertension and a lower 
glomerular filtration rate. Quality of life following living kidney donation 
seems to be better than the national norm. We also encountered several reports 
of ESRD in previous living kidney donors. Regular follow-up of kidney donors is 
recommended and future controlled, prospective studies will better delineate 
risk factors which cause health problems following living kidney donation.

DOI: 10.5500/wjt.v2.i1.5
PMCID: PMC3812927
PMID: 24175190


420. Probl Sotsialnoi Gig Zdravookhranenniiai Istor Med. 2013 Jul-Aug;(4):32-4.

[The justification of the level of public financing of health care to enhance 
health of population of the Russian Federation].

[Article in Russian]

Ulumbekova GZ.

The article discusses the justification of management of public financing of 
health care in Russia. The technique of comparative analysis and evaluation of 
dependences between public health care financing and indicators of population 
health has been applied. It is demonstrated that to achieve the values of 75.6 
years of life expectancy at birth and 11 of total mortality as target indicators 
of population health up to 2018 the amount of public health care financing is to 
be increased up to 1.5 times or up to 6% of GDP per year in prices of 2011. The 
sources of additional health care financing are proposed.

PMID: 24175385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2013;14(9):5077-83. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.9.5077.

Epidemiological correlates of breast cancer in South India.

Babu GR(1), Lakshmi SB, Thiyagarajan JA.

Author information:
(1)Public Health Foundation of India E-mail : giridhar@iiphh.org.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer is the most frequent cancer in women globally and 
represents the second leading cause of cancer death among women (after lung 
cancer). India is going through epidemiologic transition. It is reported that 
the incidence of breast cancer is rising rapidly as a result of changes in 
reproductive risk factors, dietary habits and increasing life expectancy, acting 
in concert with genetic factors.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In order to understand the existing epidemiological 
correlates of breast cancer in South India, a systematic review of evidence 
available on epidemiologic correlates of breast cancer addressing incidence, 
prevalence, and associated factors like age, reproductive factors, cultural and 
religious factors was performed with specific focus on screening procedures in 
southern India.
RESULTS: An increase in breast cancer incidence due to various modifiable risk 
factors was noted, especially in women over 40 years of age, with late stage of 
presentation, lack of awareness about screening, costs, fear and stigma 
associated with the disease serving as major barriers for early presentation.
CONCLUSIONS: Educational strategies should be aimed at modifying the life style, 
early planning of pregnancy, promoting breast feeding and physical activity. It 
is very important to obtain reliable data for planning policies, decision-making 
and setting up the priorities.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.9.5077
PMID: 24175779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Oct;17(48):i-xvi, 1-141. doi: 10.3310/hta17480.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of minimally invasive techniques 
to manage varicose veins: a systematic review and economic evaluation.

Carroll C(1), Hummel S, Leaviss J, Ren S, Stevens JW, Everson-Hock E, Cantrell 
A, Stevenson M, Michaels J.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR) Technology Assessment Group, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

BACKGROUND: Varicose veins are enlarged, visibly lumpy knotted veins, usually in 
the legs. Uncomplicated varicose veins can cause major discomfort and some 
complications. They are part of chronic venous disease (CVD), which is reported 
to have a substantial negative impact on health-related quality of life (HRQoL). 
Traditional treatments for varicose veins involve surgical stripping and 
ligation and liquid sclerotherapy (LS), but can be invasive and painful. New 
minimally invasive treatments offer an alternative. These treatments typically 
involve use of laser, radiofrequency or foam sclerosant. They are increasingly 
widely used and offer potential benefits such as reduced complications, faster 
recovery, fewer physical limitations and improved quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this report is to evaluate the clinical effectiveness, 
safety and cost-effectiveness of the minimally invasive techniques of foam 
sclerotherapy (FS), endovenous laser ablation (EVLA) and radiofrequency ablation 
(RFA) in comparison with other techniques, including traditional surgical 
techniques, LS and conservative management, in the management of varicose veins.
DATA SOURCES: A systematic search was made of 11 bibliographic databases of 
published and unpublished literature from their inception to July 2011: MEDLINE; 
EMBASE; Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature; The Cochrane 
Library; Biological Abstracts; Science Citation Index (SCI); Social Sciences 
Citation Index; Conference Proceedings Citation Index-Science; UK Clinical 
Research Network; Current Controlled Trials; and ClinicalTrials.gov.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) to 
assess the clinical effectiveness of minimally invasive techniques compared with 
other treatments, principally surgical stripping, in terms of recurrence of 
varicose veins, retreatment and clinical symptoms, as measured by the Venous 
Clinical Severity Score (VCSS), pain and quality of life. Network meta-analysis 
and exploratory cost-effectiveness modelling were performed.
RESULTS: The literature search identified 1453 unique citations, of which 34 
RCTs (54 papers) satisfied the criteria for the clinical effectiveness review. 
The minimally invasive techniques reported clinical outcomes similar to surgery. 
Rates of recurrence were slightly lower for EVLA, RFA and FS, especially for 
longer follow-up periods; VCSS score was lower for EVLA and FS than for 
stripping, but slightly higher for RFA; short-term pain was less for FS and RFA 
but higher for EVLA; higher quality-of-life scores were reported for all 
evaluated interventions than for stripping. Differences between treatments were 
therefore negligible in terms of clinical outcomes, so the treatment with the 
lowest cost appears to be most cost-effective. Our central estimate is that 
total FS costs were lowest and FS is marginally more effective than stripping. 
However, this result was sensitive to the model time horizon. Threshold analysis 
indicated that EVLA and RFA might be considered cost-effective if their costs 
are equivalent to stripping. These findings are subject to uncertainty on 
account of the risk of bias present in the evidence base and the variation in 
costs.
LIMITATIONS: The relative clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of the 
techniques are principally based on rates of post-operative technical recurrence 
rather than symptomatic recurrence, as this was the reported outcome in all 
trials. The true proportion of treated individuals who are likely to present 
with symptoms of recurrence requiring retreatment is therefore not certain. A 
figure reflecting the likely proportion of treated individuals who would 
experience symptomatic recurrence requiring retreatment (with its associated 
costs), therefore, had to be calculated by the authors based on a small number 
of studies. The findings of this report also need to be verified by data from 
future trials with longer follow-up and using more standardised outcome 
measures.
CONCLUSIONS: This assessment of the currently available evidence suggests there 
is little to choose between the minimally invasive techniques in terms of 
efficacy or cost, and each offers a viable, clinically effective alternative to 
stripping. FS might offer the most cost-effective alternative to stripping, 
within certain time parameters. High-quality RCT evidence is needed. Future 
trials should aim to measure and report outcomes in a standardised manner, which 
would permit more efficient pooling of their results.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO number CRD42011001355.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17480
PMCID: PMC4780990
PMID: 24176098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. BMJ Open. 2013 Oct 30;3(10):e003834. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003834.

The effect of a glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor agonist on glucose tolerance in 
women with previous gestational diabetes mellitus: protocol for an 
investigator-initiated, randomised, placebo-controlled, double-blinded, parallel 
intervention trial.

Foghsgaard S(1), Vedtofte L, Mathiesen ER, Svare JA, Gluud LL, Holst JJ, Damm P, 
Knop FK, Vilsbøll T.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Research Division, Department of Medicine, Copenhagen University 
Hospital Gentofte, Hellerup, Denmark.

INTRODUCTION: Pregnancy is associated with decreased insulin sensitivity, which 
is usually overcome by a compensatory increase in insulin secretion. Some 
pregnant women are not able to increase their insulin secretion sufficiently, 
and consequently develop gestational diabetes mellitus (GDM). The disease 
normally disappears after delivery. Nevertheless, women with previous GDM have a 
high risk of developing type 2 diabetes (T2D) later in life. We aim to 
investigate the early development of T2D in women with previous GDM and to 
evaluate whether treatment with the glucagon-like peptide-1 receptor (GLP-1R) 
agonist, liraglutide, may modify their risk of developing T2D.
METHODS AND ANALYSES: 100 women with previous GDM will be randomised to either 
liraglutide or placebo treatment for 1 year (blinded) with an open-label 
extension for another 4 years. Additionally, 15 women without previous GDM will 
constitute a baseline control group. Women will be tested with an oral glucose 
tolerance test (primary endpoint: area under the curve for plasma glucose) and 
an isoglycaemic intravenous glucose infusion at baseline, after 1 year and after 
5 years. Additional evaluations include a glucagon test, dual-energy X-ray 
absorptiometry, imaging of the liver (ultrasound elastography and 
fibroscanning), an ad libitum meal for food intake evaluation and questionnaires 
related to appetite, quality of life and alcohol consumption habits.
ETHICS AND DISSEMINATION: The protocol has been approved by the Danish Medicines 
Agency, the Scientific-Ethical Committee of the Capital Region of Denmark, and 
the Danish Data Protection Agency and will be carried out under the surveillance 
and guidance of the GCP unit at Copenhagen University Hospital Bispebjerg in 
compliance with the ICH-GCP guidelines and in accordance with the Helsinki 
Declaration. Positive, negative and inconclusive results will be published at 
scientific conferences and as one or more scientific manuscripts in 
peer-reviewed journals.
REGISTRATIONS: The trial is registered at https://eudract.ema.europa.eu 
(2012-001371-37) and http://www.clinicaltrials.gov (NCT01795248).

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-003834
PMCID: PMC3816238
PMID: 24176797


424. Dev Biol. 2014 Feb 1;386(1):191-203. doi: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2013.10.020. Epub
2013  Oct 28.

Swap70b is required for convergent and extension cell movement during zebrafish 
gastrulation linking Wnt11 signalling and RhoA effector function.

Xu X(1), Shuen WH(1), Chen C(1), Goudevenou K(1), Jones P(1), Sablitzky F(2).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Cell and Developmental Biology, School of Life Sciences, The 
University of Nottingham, UK.
(2)Molecular Cell and Developmental Biology, School of Life Sciences, The 
University of Nottingham, UK. Electronic address: 
fred.sablitzky@nottingham.ac.uk.

Swap70 functions as a guanine nucleotide exchange factor for Rac and RhoA 
regulating F-actin cytoskeletal rearrangements and playing a crucial role in 
mammalian cell activation, migration, adhesion and invasion. Here we show that 
the zebrafish orthologue, Swap70b, is required for convergent and extension cell 
movement during gastrulation. Swap70b morphants exhibited broader and shorter 
body axis but cell fate specification appeared normal. While ectopic Swap70b 
expression robustly rescued Wnt11 morphants, RhoA overexpression was sufficient 
to rescue Swap70b morphants, establishing Swap70b as a novel member of the 
non-canonical Wnt/PCP pathway downstream of Wnt11 and upstream of RhoA. This is 
distinct from the related Def6a protein that acts downstream of Wnt5b. 
Def6a/Swap70b morphants resemble Ppt/Slb double mutant embryos suggesting that 
Swap70b and Def6a delineate Wnt11 and Wnt5b signalling pathways.

© 2013 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ydbio.2013.10.020
PMID: 24177263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. BMJ Case Rep. 2013 Oct 31;2013:bcr2013009875. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2013-009875.

Facial cutaneous metastasis of colorectal adenocarcinoma.

Hashimi Y(1), Dholakia S.

Author information:
(1)Oxford University Hospitals NHS Trust, Oxford, UK.

Facial cutaneous metastasis from carcinoma is a rare and late clinical finding 
that is associated with disseminated disease and a poor prognosis. Skin 
metastases predominantly originate from primary tumours of the lung and 
melanoma. Skin metastases from colon tumours occur in only 4-6.5% of cases of 
metastatic colorectal cancer. They are most often located on the abdominal skin. 
We present an unusual case in which a primary colorectal adenocarcinoma 
metastasised to the face. This cutaneous lesion occurred 4 years after diagnosis 
of the primary tumour. This case highlights the importance of prompt 
investigation of new or evolving skin lesions in patients with a history of 
malignancy. Early detection and initiation of treatment may prevent development 
of widespread skin metastases and extend life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2013-009875
PMCID: PMC3822271
PMID: 24177455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. Thromb Haemost. 2013 Nov;110(5):931-9. doi: 10.1160/TH13-03-0213. Epub 2013
Aug  29.

Extending the pharmacokinetic half-life of coagulation factors by fusion to 
recombinant albumin.

Metzner HJ(1), Pipe SW, Weimer T, Schulte S.

Author information:
(1)Hubert J. Metzner, CSL Behring GmbH, Emil-von-Behring-Str. 76, 35041 Marburg, 
Germany, Tel.: +49 6421 394417, Fax: +49 6421 394663, E-mail: 
hubert.metzner@cslbehring.com.

The prophylactic treatment of haemophilia B and the management of haemophilia A 
or B with inhibitors demand frequent administrations of coagulation factors due 
to the suboptimal half-lives of the products commercially available and 
currently in use, e.g. recombinant factor IX (rFIX) and recombinant factor VIIa 
(rFVIIa), respectively. The extension of the half-lives of rFIX and rFVIIa could 
allow for longer intervals between infusions and could thereby improve adherence 
and clinical outcomes and may improve quality of life. Albumin fusion is one of 
a number of different techniques currently being examined to prolong the 
half-life of rFIX and rFVIIa. Results from a phase I clinical trial demonstrated 
that the recombinant fusion protein linking FIX to albumin (rIX-FP) has a 
five-times longer half-life than rFIX, and preclinical studies with the 
recombinant fusion protein linking FVIIa to albumin (rVIIa-FP) suggest that 
rVIIa-FP possesses a significantly extended half-life versus rFVIIa. In this 
review, we describe albumin fusion technology and examine the recent progress in 
the development of rIX-FP and rVIIa-FP.

DOI: 10.1160/TH13-03-0213
PMID: 24178510 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Clin Med Insights Ear Nose Throat. 2013 Jul 23;6:21-8. doi: 
10.4137/CMENT.S10681. eCollection 2013.

Evaluation of temporal bone cholesteatoma and the correlation between high 
resolution computed tomography and surgical finding.

Gomaa MA(1), Abdel Karim AR, Abdel Ghany HS, Elhiny AA, Sadek AA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otorhinolaryngology, Faculty of Medicine, Minia University, 
Egypy.

BACKGROUND: Acquired cholesteatomas are commonly seen in patients less than 30 
years. There is a typical history of recurrent middle ear infections with 
tympanic membrane perforation. The diagnosis of cholesteatoma is usually made on 
otologic examination.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the work was to study the role of high resolution computed 
tomography (HRCT) in detecting, evaluating, and diagnosing middle ear 
cholesteatoma.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a prospective study that included 56 consecutive 
patients with chronic suppurative otitis media, unsafe type cholesteatomas. Each 
patient was subjected to full clinical evaluation, and HRCT examination. 
Intravenous contrast media was used in some patients with suspected intracranial 
complication. Preoperative radiological data were correlated with data related 
to surgical findings.
RESULTS: The study showed that a high incidence of cholesteatoma in the third 
decade of life. The scutum and lateral attic wall were the most common bony 
erosions in the middle ear bony wall (64.3%), and the incus was the most eroded 
ossicle in the middle ear (88.2%). Sclerosing of mastoid air cells were 
encountered in 60.7% of patients and the lateral semicircular canal was affected 
in 9%, while facial canal erosion was found in 21.4%. Temporal bone 
complications are more common than intracranial complications. HRCT findings 
were compared with operative features; the comparative study included the 
accuracy and sensitivity of HRCT in detecting cholesteatoma (92.8%), its 
location and extension (96.4%), ossicular chain erosion (98%), labyrinthine 
fistula and intracranial complications (100%).
CONCLUSION: The important role of HRCT scannig lies on the early detection of 
cholesteatoma, and more conservative surgical procedures can be used to 
eradicate the disease.

DOI: 10.4137/CMENT.S10681
PMCID: PMC3791954
PMID: 24179410


428. Future Cardiol. 2013 Nov;9(6):885-96. doi: 10.2217/fca.13.81.

Deactivation of implantable cardioverter-defibrillators at end of life.

Pettit SJ(1), Jackson CE, Gardner RS.

Author information:
(1)Papworth Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Papworth Everard, Cambridge, CB23 
3RE, UK. s.j.pettit@doctors.org.uk.

It is inevitable that all patients with implantable cardioverter-defibrillators 
(ICDs) will die during extended follow-up. End-of-life care planning may become 
appropriate as a patient's condition deteriorates. There is concern about 
multiple futile shocks in the final hours of life, although the incidence of 
this problem has been estimated at only 8-16%. Despite broad consensus that ICD 
deactivation should be discussed as part of end-of-life care planning, the 
effect of ICD deactivation, in particular whether life expectancy is altered, is 
uncertain. Many clinicians are reluctant to discuss ICD deactivation. Many 
patients have misconceptions regarding ICD function and value longevity above 
quality of life. As such, ICD deactivation is often discussed late or not at 
all. The management of ICDs in patients approaching death is likely to become a 
major problem in the coming years. This article will discuss directions in which 
clinical practice might develop and areas for future research.

DOI: 10.2217/fca.13.81
PMID: 24180544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Acta Obstet Gynecol Scand. 2014 Mar;93(3):225-32. doi: 10.1111/aogs.12299.
Epub  2013 Dec 18.

Cost-effectiveness of hysterectomy for benign gynecological conditions: a 
systematic review.

Pynnä K(1), Vuorela P, Lodenius L, Paavonen J, Roine RP, Räsänen P.

Author information:
(1)University of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland; Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Lohja Hospital, Lohja, Finland.

The objective of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of hysterectomy 
performed for benign indications. Hysterectomy remains the most common major 
gynecological operation in the Western world. Rates of hysterectomy have not 
declined as expected with the introduction of new treatment options. 
Furthermore, use of laparoscopic techniques varies widely within the Nordic 
countries. We designed a systematic review in a University Central Hospital. The 
sample included all published studies regarding the cost-effectiveness of 
hysterectomy performed for benign indications (n = 1666). Medline, Cochrane 
Library, PsycINFO, CINAHL, and Nursing databases were searched. Inclusion 
criteria were the availability of pre- and post-intervention health-related 
quality of life measures (HRQoL) and data on costs. HRQoL, costs, and 
cost-effectiveness of treatment were the main outcome measures. Studies (n = 24) 
focused on treatment of symptomatic fibroids (n = 8), treatment of heavy 
menstrual bleeding (n = 10), various surgical techniques (n = 5) and the effect 
of various indications for hysterectomy (n = 2). Follow-up periods varied from 
4 months to over 10 years. SF/RAND-36 or EQ-5D measures and societal cost 
perspective were most commonly used. Only 11 studies used individual patient 
data. HRQoL following hysterectomy was generally good but costs were high. The 
cost-effectiveness depended on indication, age, and duration of follow-up. The 
cost-effectiveness of hysterectomy has been surprisingly poorly studied. 
Conclusions are difficult to draw due to different study designs, indications, 
follow-up times, and HRQoL instruments used. Rates of hysterectomy have declined 
less than expected with the introduction of new treatment modalities. Costs of 
surgery are high. Laparoscopic hysterectomy seems to be the least 
cost-effective, although further data from original patient cohorts with 
long-term follow-up are needed.

© 2013 Nordic Federation of Societies of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

DOI: 10.1111/aogs.12299
PMID: 24180560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Med J Aust. 2013 Nov 4;199(9):619-22. doi: 10.5694/mja13.10605.

Estimated impacts of alternative Australian alcohol taxation structures on 
consumption, public health and government revenues.

Doran CM(1), Byrnes JM, Cobiac LJ, Vandenberg B, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)Hunter Medical Research Institute, Newcastle, NSW, Australia. 
christopher.doran@hnehealth.nsw.gov.au.

OBJECTIVE: To examine health and economic implications of modifying taxation of 
alcohol in Australia.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Economic and epidemiological modelling of four scenarios for 
changing the current taxation of alcohol products, including: replacing the wine 
equalisation tax (WET) with a volumetric tax; applying an equal tax rate to all 
beverages equivalent to a 10% increase in the current excise applicable to 
spirits and ready-to-drink products; applying an excise tax rate that increases 
exponentially by 3% for every 1% increase in alcohol content above 3.2%; and 
applying a two-tiered volumetric tax. We used annual sales data and taxation 
rates for 2010 as the base case.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Alcohol consumption, taxation revenue, 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) averted and health care costs averted.
RESULTS: In 2010, the Australian Government collected close to $8.6 billion from 
alcohol taxation. All four of the proposed variations to current rates of 
alcohol excise were shown to save money and more effectively reduce 
alcohol-related harm compared with the 2010 base case. Abolishing the WET and 
replacing it with a volumetric tax on wine would increase taxation revenue by 
$1.3 billion per year, reduce alcohol consumption by 1.3%, save $820 million in 
health care costs and avert 59 000 DALYs. The alternative scenarios would lead 
to even higher taxation receipts and greater reductions in alcohol use and harm.
CONCLUSIONS: Our research findings suggest that any of the proposed variations 
to current rates of alcohol excise would be a cost-effective health care 
intervention; they thus reinforce the evidence that taxation is a cost-effective 
strategy. Of all the scenarios, perhaps the most politically feasible policy 
option at this point in time is to abolish the WET and replace it with a 
volumetric tax on wine. This analysis supports the recommendation of the 
National Preventative Health Taskforce and the Henry Review towards taxing 
alcohol according to alcohol content.

DOI: 10.5694/mja13.10605
PMID: 24182229 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Med J Aust. 2013 Nov 4;199(9):629. doi: 10.5694/mja13.11100.

Can you tell a siren from a tocsin?

Best J(1).

Author information:
(1)Murray to the Mountains Intern Training Program, Sydney, NSW, Australia. 
jbbest@iimetro.com.au.

DOI: 10.5694/mja13.11100
PMID: 24182232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2013 Dec;27(6):845-52. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpg.2013.08.017. Epub 2013 Sep 26.

Generalizability of cost-utility analyses across countries and settings.

Ginsberg GM(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Technology Assessment Sector, Ministry of Health, Yirmiahu St 39, 
Jerusalem 944724, Israel. Electronic address: gary.ginsberg@moh.health.gov.il.

All societies have limited resources, so decisions have to be made about which 
public health interventions should be provided. A major tool used for 
prioritisation is cost-utility analysis (CUA) where the outcomes are measured in 
terms of Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) prevented. Collecting data and 
building models to calculate the ratio of net costs (i.e.: intervention costs 
less treatment costs averted due to decreases in morbidity and mortality) to 
outcomes (CUR) is complex and time consuming. Therefore, there is a great appeal 
in using CUA calculations that have already been published in other countries. 
This paper points out the many limitations and inaccuracies caused by 
generalizing results from CUAs across different countries. However, if time 
constraints are pressing then first-order estimates of results could be 
presented after adjustments for the major drivers of the CUR, such as incidence 
rates, intervention costs and averted treatment costs.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2013.08.017
PMID: 24182605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2013 Dec;27(6):949-60. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpg.2013.09.007. Epub 2013 Oct 1.

Cost-effectiveness of biological agents used in ulcerative colitis.

Lee JK(1), Tang DH, Mollon L, Armstrong EP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice & Science, University of Arizona College of 
Pharmacy, 1295 N Martin Ave., Tucson, AZ 85721-0202, USA; Section of Geriatrics, 
Internal Medicine & Palliative Medicine, University of Arizona College of 
Medicine, 1295 N Martin Ave., Tucson, AZ 85721-0202, USA. Electronic address: 
jlee@pharmacy.arizona.edu.

Ulcerative colitis (UC) produces bloody diarrhoea, severe abdominal pain, and 
need for clinic visits, hospitalizations, and surgeries. UC results in reduced 
health-related quality of life for patients and large direct medical and 
indirect costs for health systems and employers. Patients with the most severe 
disease require the most medical services, and these patients have larger costs 
than patients with mild or moderate disease. Despite biological therapies being 
quite expensive, they are indicated for patients unresponsive to initial 
standard therapies. Future hospitalizations may be reduced by starting a 
biological treatment. Cost-effectiveness results vary between countries, health 
systems, and model designs. Since restorative proctocolectomy can be curative, 
this surgery dominates biological therapy by being both less costly and more 
effective when measuring health system costs and patient quality-adjusted life 
years for 20 years. However the dose, duration, and effectiveness of biological 
treatments significantly impact estimates of their cost-effectiveness.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2013.09.007
PMID: 24182613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2013 Dec;27(6):973-85. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpg.2013.08.020. Epub 2013 Sep 27.

Cost-effectiveness of viral hepatitis B & C treatment.

Toy M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Harvard University, Boston, USA. Electronic address: mtoy@hsph.harvard.edu.

With the availability of effective antiviral therapies for chronic viral 
hepatitis B and C, cost-effectiveness studies have been performed to assess the 
outcomes and costs of these therapies to support health policy. It is now 
accepted that treatment of active CHB is cost-effective versus no treatment, 
although there are a variety of options. And with the new developments around 
CHC treatment and diagnostic tools it is of interest to both the clinician and 
policy makers to know both the costs and effects of these choices. The purpose 
of this article is to provide the reader with an insight into the recent 
treatment developments and cost-effectiveness issues related to chronic 
hepatitis B and C treatment, and an overview of recent cost-effectiveness 
studies evolving around HBV and HCV therapy.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2013.08.020
PMID: 24182615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. J Formos Med Assoc. 2013 Nov;112(11):699-706. doi:
10.1016/j.jfma.2012.12.015.  Epub 2013 Feb 12.

Estimating quality weights for EQ-5D (EuroQol-5 dimensions) health states with 
the time trade-off method in Taiwan.

Lee HY(1), Hung MC, Hu FC, Chang YY, Hsieh CL, Wang JD.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Occupational Medicine and Industrial Hygiene, College of Public 
Health, National Taiwan University, Taipei, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND/PURPOSE: EQ-5D (EuroQol-5 dimensions) is a preference-based measure 
of health, which is widely used in cost-utility analyses. It has been suggested 
that each country should develop its own value set. We therefore sought to 
develop the quality weights of the EQ-5D health states with the time trade-off 
(TTO) method in Taiwan.
METHODS: A total of 745 respondents consisting of employees and volunteers in 17 
different hospitals were recruited and interviewed. Each of them valued 13 of 73 
EQ-5D health states using the TTO method. Based on the three exclusion criteria 
for valuation data, only 456 (61.21%) respondents were considered eligible for 
data analysis. The quality weights for all EQ-5D health states were modeled by 
generalized estimating equations (GEEs).
RESULTS: Over half of the responses were given negative values, and the medical 
personnel seemed to have a significantly higher TTO value (+0.1) than others 
after controlling for other predictors. The N3 model (level 3 occurred within at 
least 1 dimension) yielded an acceptable fit for the observed OTT data [mean 
absolute error (MAE) = 0.056, R(2) = 0.35]. The magnitude of mean absolute 
differences (MADs) between Taiwan data and those from the UK, Japan, and South 
Korea ranged from 0.146 to 0.592, but the rank correlation coefficients were all 
above 0.811.
CONCLUSION: This study reaffirms the differences in health-related preference 
values across countries. The high proportion of negative values might indicate 
that we have also partially measured the intensity of fear in addition to the 
utility of different health states.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jfma.2012.12.015
PMID: 24183199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Acta Psychol (Amst). 2013 Nov;144(3):604-16. doi:
10.1016/j.actpsy.2013.09.012.  Epub 2013 Oct 27.

Egocentric framing - one way people may fail in a switch dilemma: evidence from 
excessive lane switching.

Navon D(1), Kaplan TR, Kasten R.

Author information:
(1)University of Haifa, Haifa, Israel. Electronic address: 
dnavon@psy.haifa.ac.il.

To study switching behavior, an experiment mimicking the state of a driver on 
the road was conducted. In each trial participants were given a chance to switch 
lanes. Despite the fact that lane switching had no sound rational basis, 
participants often switched lanes when the speed of driving in their lane on the 
previous trial was relatively slow. That tendency was discerned even when 
switching behavior had been sparsely reinforced, and was especially marked in 
almost a third of the participants, who manifested it consistently. The findings 
illustrate a type of behavior occurring in various contexts (e.g., stocks held 
in a portfolio, conduct pertinent for residual life expectancy, supermarket 
queues). We argue that this behavior may be due to a fallacy reminiscent of that 
arising in the well-known "envelopes problem", in which each of two players 
holds a sum of money of which she knows nothing about except that it is either 
half or twice the amount held by the other player. Players may be paradoxically 
tempted to exchange assets, since an exchange fallaciously appears to always 
yield an expected value greater than whatever is regarded as the player's 
present assets. We argue that the fallacy is due to egocentrically framing the 
problem as if the "amount I have" is definite, albeit unspecified, and shows 
that framing the paradox acentrically instead eliminates the incentive to 
exchange assets. A possible psychological source for the human disposition to 
frame problems in a way that inflates expected gain is discussed. Finally, a 
heuristic meant to avert the source of the fallacy is proposed.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actpsy.2013.09.012
PMID: 24184347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. Bone Joint Res. 2013 Nov 1;2(11):233-7. doi: 10.1302/2046-3758.211.2000199. 
Print 2013.

Non-invasive, non-radiological quantificationof anteroposterior knee joint 
ligamentous laxity: A study in cadavers.

Russell DF(1), Deakin AH, Fogg QA, Picard F.

Author information:
(1)Golden Jubilee National Hospital, OrthopaedicDepartment, Agamemnon Street, 
Clydebank, WestDunbartonshire G81 4DY, and Faculty of Biomedicaland Life 
Sciences, Thomson Building, University Avenue, GlasgowG12 8QQ, UK.

OBJECTIVES: We performed in vitro validation of a non-invasive skin-mounted 
system that could allow quantification of anteroposterior (AP) laxity in the 
outpatient setting.
METHODS: A total of 12 cadaveric lower limbs were tested with a commercial 
image-free navigation system using trackers secured by bone screws. We then 
tested a non-invasive fabric-strap system. The lower limb was secured at 10° 
intervals from 0° to 60° of knee flexion and 100 N of force was applied 
perpendicular to the tibia. Acceptable coefficient of repeatability (CR) and 
limits of agreement (LOA) of 3 mm were set based on diagnostic criteria for 
anterior cruciate ligament (ACL) insufficiency.
RESULTS: Reliability and precision within the individual invasive and 
non-invasive systems was acceptable throughout the range of flexion tested 
(intra-class correlation coefficient 0.88, CR 1.6 mm). Agreement between the two 
systems was acceptable measuring AP laxity between full extension and 40° knee 
flexion (LOA 2.9 mm). Beyond 40° of flexion, agreement between the systems was 
unacceptable (LOA > 3 mm).
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that from full knee extension to 40° 
flexion, non-invasive navigation-based quantification of AP tibial translation 
is as accurate as the standard validated commercial system, particularly in the 
clinically and functionally important range of 20° to 30° knee flexion. This 
could be useful in diagnosis and post-operative evaluation of ACL pathology. 
Cite this article: Bone Joint Res 2013;2:233-7.

DOI: 10.1302/2046-3758.211.2000199
PMCID: PMC3819608
PMID: 24184443

Conflict of interest statement: ICMJE Conflict of Interest:Professor F. Picard 
has licences and patents with BBraun Aesculap. The Department of Orthopaedics 
receives research funding from a number of companies including BBraun Aesculap.


438. Nucleic Acids Res. 2014 Jan;42(Database issue):D1200-5. doi: 
10.1093/nar/gkt1061. Epub 2013 Oct 31.

LSD 2.0: an update of the leaf senescence database.

Li Z(1), Zhao Y, Liu X, Peng J, Guo H, Luo J.

Author information:
(1)College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, People's 
Republic of China, The Key Laboratory of Protein and Plant Gene Research, Peking 
University, Beijing 100871, People's Republic of China, Center for Life 
Sciences, Peking University, Beijing 100871, People's Republic of China and 
Center for Bioinformatics, Peking University, Beijing 100871, People's Republic 
of China.

This manuscript describes an update of the leaf senescence database (LSD) 
previously featured in the 2011 NAR Database Issue. LSD provides comprehensive 
information concerning senescence-associated genes (SAGs) and their 
corresponding mutants. We have made extensive annotations for these SAGs through 
both manual and computational approaches. Recently, we updated LSD to a new 
version LSD 2.0 (http://www.eplantsenescence.org/), which contains 5356 genes 
and 322 mutants from 44 species, an extension from the previous version 
containing 1145 genes and 154 mutants from 21 species. In the current version, 
we also included several new features: (i) Primer sequences retrieved based on 
experimental evidence or designed for high-throughput analysis were added; (ii) 
More than 100 images of Arabidopsis SAG mutants were added; (iii) Arabidopsis 
seed information obtained from The Arabidopsis Information Resource (TAIR) was 
integrated; (iv) Subcellular localization information of SAGs in Arabidopsis 
mined from literature or generated from the SUBA3 program was presented; (v) 
Quantitative Trait Loci information was added with links to the original 
database and (vi) New options such as primer and miRNA search for database query 
were implemented. The updated database will be a valuable and informative 
resource for basic research of leaf senescence and for the manipulation of 
traits of agronomically important plants.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gkt1061
PMCID: PMC3965048
PMID: 24185698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Planta. 1991 Nov;185(4):527-37. doi: 10.1007/BF00202963.

Auxin induces exocytosis and the rapid synthesis of a high-turnover pool of 
plasma-membrane H(+)-ATPase.

Hager A(1), Debus G, Edel HG, Stransky H, Serrano R.

Author information:
(1)Institut für Biologie I, Universität Tübingen, Auf der Morgenstelle 1, 
W-7400, Tübingen.

Auxin causes elongation growth of plant cells by increasing the plastic 
extensibility of the cell wall. Putative cellular events involved in this 
hormone action were studied using maize (Zea mays L.) coleoptiles with the 
following results: (i) Auxin enhances membrane flow from the endoplasmic 
reticulum to the plasma membrane (PM). This effect was demonstrated by 
pulse-labeling of the endoplasmic reticulum with myo-[(3)H]inositol in 
coleoptile segments and by measuring the distribution of the label within 
isolated and separated microsomal membrane fractions, (ii) Auxin rapidly 
increases the amount of antibody-detectable H(+)-ATPase in the PM. This 
augmentation is already significant 10 min after the addition of indole-3-acetic 
acid (IAA) and reaches a new higher steady-state level after about 30 min. (iii) 
Cycloheximide, a potent inhibitor of both protein synthesis and extension 
growth, quickly diminishes the auxin-enhanced level of the PM H(+)-ATPase, 
indicating an apparent half-life of the enzyme of around 12 min. (iv) 
Cordycepin, which blocks the synthesis of mRNAs, reduces the auxin-elevated 
level of the H(+)-ATPase similar to cycloheximide. (v) Changes in the growth 
rate of coleoptile segments in response to IAA, cycloheximide, and cordycepin 
exactly reflect the changes of the H(+)-ATPase level in the PM. (vi) The 
elongation growth induced by fusicoccin, or ester compounds, or by an elevated 
CO2 concentration in the incubation medium, is not related to an increased 
number of H(+)-ATPase molecules within the PM. (vii) The necessity of H(+) for 
cell-wall-loosening processes is again demonstrated by growth experiments with 
abraded coleoptile segments. The adjustment of the cell wall to a pH of ≥6.5 
completely abolishes the auxin-induced elongation growth; no inhibition occurs 
with non-abraded segments. Buffer solutions of pH ≤6.0 induce "acid growth" of 
abraded segments for several hours. It is suggested that auxin activates a 
cluster of genes responsible (i) for the induction and acceleration of 
exocytotic processes (e.g. by the synthesis of either proteins, necessary for 
the fusion of membranes, or of other effectors); (ii) for the synthesis of PM 
H(+)-ATPases, increasing the capacity for H(+)-extrusion into the apoplast as a 
precondition for wall enlargement ("acid growth"); (iii) for a supposed 
synthesis and exocytosis of certain proteins, enzymes and wall precursors 
necessary for wall metabolism and the "repair" of the proton-loosened and 
turgor-stretched cell wall. Both, fusicoccin and auxin affect cell-wall 
plasticity according to the "acid-growth" theory. However, the mechanisms 
leading to this event are completely different; the auxinenhanced H(+)-extrusion 
is a gene-controlled process.

DOI: 10.1007/BF00202963
PMID: 24186531


440. J Rheumatol. 2013 Dec;40(12):2075-82. doi: 10.3899/jrheum.130176. Epub 2013
Nov  1.

Responsiveness of health state utility values in knee osteoarthritis.

Davis EM(1), Lynd LD, Grubisic M, Kopec JA, Sayre EC, Cibere J, Esdaile J, Marra 
CA.

Author information:
(1)From the School of Pharmacy, Memorial University, St. John's, Newfoundland 
and Labrador; Collaboration for Outcomes Research and Evaluation (CORE), and 
School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia, 
Arthritis Research Centre, and Centre for Health Evaluation and Outcome 
Sciences, Providence Health Care Research Institute, Vancouver, British 
Columbia, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: Adaptive tests are increasingly being used to assess health-related 
quality of life in patients with a variety of medical conditions, including 
osteoarthritis (OA) of the knee. This approach has recently been used to assess 
health state utility valuations (HSUV) for use in quality-adjusted life-year 
calculations. To accurately assess incremental value for money, these tools must 
be responsive. Therefore, we examined the responsiveness of the Health Utilities 
Index mark 3 (HUI3) and Paper Adaptive Test-5D (PAT-5DQOL) in a group of 
patients with knee OA.
METHODS: We used patient-level data from a randomized controlled trial 
evaluating a pharmacist-initiated multidisciplinary intervention in newly 
diagnosed patients with knee OA. The mean change for utility scores from 
baseline to 6 months was calculated, as well as effect size (ES) and 
standardized response mean (SRM) for the HUI3 and PAT-5DQOL, and generalized 
additive model plots, using the Western Ontario and McMaster Osteoarthritis 
index as a reference standard.
RESULTS: When patients were assessed based on whether their condition had 
improved, remained unchanged, or worsened over time, the PAT-5DQOL showed 
greater responsiveness in patients whose condition had either improved or 
worsened. ES and SRM were generally small for both instruments.
CONCLUSION: The PAT-5DQOL is more responsive to change over time than the HUI3 
in patients with knee OA.

DOI: 10.3899/jrheum.130176
PMID: 24187098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. IEEE Int Conf Rehabil Robot. 2013 Jun;2013:6650401. doi: 
10.1109/ICORR.2013.6650401.

SCRIPT passive orthosis: design and technical evaluation of the wrist and hand 
orthosis for rehabilitation training at home.

Ates S, Lobo-Prat J, Lammertse P, van der Kooij H, Stienen AH.

In this paper, a new hand and wrist exoskeleton design, the SCRIPT Passive 
Orthosis (SPO), for the rehabilitation after stroke is presented. The SPO is a 
wrist, hand, and finger orthosis that assists individuals after stroke that 
suffer from impairments caused by spasticity and abnormal synergies. These 
impairments are characterized in the wrist and hand by excessive involuntary 
flexion torques that make the hand unable to be used for many activities in 
daily life. The SPO can passively offset these undesired torques, but it cannot 
actively generate or control movements. The user needs to use voluntary muscle 
activation to perform movements and thus needs to have some residual muscle 
control to successfully use the SPO. The SPO offsets the excessive internal 
flexion by applying external extension torques to the joints of the wrist and 
fingers. The SPO physically interacts with the users using the forearm shell, 
the hand plate and the digit caps from the Saebo Flex, but is otherwise a 
completely novel design. It applies the external extension torques via passive 
leaf springs and elastic tension cords. The amount of this support can be 
adjusted to provide more or less offset force to wrist, finger, or thumb 
extension, manually. The SPO is equipped with sensors that can give a rough 
estimate of the joint rotations and applied torques, sufficient to make the 
orthosis interact with our interactive gaming environment. Integrated inertial 
and gyroscopic sensors provide limited information on the user's forearm 
posture. The first home-based patient experiences have already let to several 
issues being resolved, but have also made it clear that many improvement are 
still to be made.

DOI: 10.1109/ICORR.2013.6650401
PMID: 24187220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. IEEE Int Conf Rehabil Robot. 2013 Jun;2013:6650495. doi: 
10.1109/ICORR.2013.6650495.

Development of an assistive motorized hip orthosis: kinematics analysis and 
