searched for ongoing and unpublished studies, and bibliographies of relevant 
systematic reviews and the manufacturers' submissions were also hand-searched.
REVIEW METHODS: A systematic review of the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of colistimethate sodium DPI and tobramycin DPI for the 
treatment of chronic P. aeruginosa lung infection in CF was conducted. Existing 
economic evidence within the literature was reviewed and a de novo health 
economic model was also developed.
RESULTS: Three randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were included in the clinical 
effectiveness review. Both colistimethate sodium DPI and tobramycin DPI were 
reported to be non-inferior to nebulised tobramycin for the outcome forced 
expiratory volume in first second percentage predicted (FEV1%). It was not 
possible to draw any firm conclusions as to the relative efficacy of 
colistimethate sodium DPI compared with tobramycin DPI. The economic analysis 
suggests that colistimethate sodium DPI produces fewer quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) than nebulised tobramycin. Given the incremental discounted 
lifetime cost of tobramycin DPI compared with nebulised tobramycin, it highly 
unlikely that tobramycin DPI has an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio that is 
better than £30,000 per QALY gained.
LIMITATION: The uncertainty surrounding the short-term evidence base inevitably 
results in uncertainty surrounding the long-term clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of colistimethate sodium DPI.
CONCLUSIONS: Both DPI formulations have been shown to be non-inferior to 
nebulised tobramycin as measured by FEV1%. The results of these trials should be 
interpreted with caution owing to the means by which the results were analysed, 
the length of follow-up, and concerns about the ability of FEV1% to accurately 
represent changes in lung health. Although the increase in QALYs is expected to 
be lower with colistimethate sodium DPI than with nebulised tobramycin, a price 
for this intervention had not been agreed at the time of the assessment. 
Depending on the price of colistimethate sodium DPI, this results either in a 
situation whereby colistimethate sodium DPI is dominated by nebulised tobramycin 
or in one whereby the incremental cost-effectiveness of nebulised tobramycin 
compared with colistimethate sodium DPI is in the range of £24,000-277,000 per 
QALY gained. The economic analysis also suggests that, given its price, it is 
unlikely that tobramycin DPI has a cost-effectiveness ratio of < £30,000 per 
QALY gained when compared with nebulised tobramycin. A RCT to assess the 
longer-term (≥ 12 months) efficacy of colistimethate sodium DPI and tobramycin 
DPI in comparison with nebulised treatments would be beneficial. Such a study 
should include the direct assessment of HRQoL using a relevant preference-based 
instrument. Future studies should ensure that the European Medicines Agency 
guidelines are adhered to. In addition, high-quality research concerning the 
relationship between forced expiratory volume in first second % (FEV1%) 
predicted or other measures of lung function and survival/health-related quality 
of life (HRQoL) would be useful.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42011001350.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17560
PMCID: PMC4781138
PMID: 24290164 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2013 Oct;29(4):384-91. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462313000445.

Is treatment of depression cost-effective in people with diabetes? A systematic 
review of the economic evidence.

Jeeva F(1), Dickens C, Coventry P, Bundy C, Davies L.

Author information:
(1)Collaboration for Leadership in Applied Health Research and Care for Greater 
Manchester.

OBJECTIVES: Depression is common in diabetes and linked to a wide range of 
adverse outcomes. UK policy indicates that depression should be treated using 
conventional psychological treatments in a stepped care framework. This review 
aimed to identify current economic evidence of psychological treatments for 
depression among people with diabetes.
METHOD: Electronic search strategies (conducted in MEDLINE, EMBASE, PsycINFO, 
CINAHL, NHS EED) combined clinical and economic search terms to identify full 
economic evaluations of the relevant interventions. Prespecified screening and 
inclusion criteria were used. Standardized data extraction and critical 
appraisal were conducted and the results summarized qualitatively.
RESULTS: Excluding duplicates, 1,516 studies for co-morbid depression and 
diabetes were screened. Four economic evaluations were identified. The studies 
found that the interventions improved health status, reduced depression and were 
cost-effective compared with usual care. The studies were all U.S.-based and 
evaluated collaborative care programs that included psychological therapies. 
Critical appraisal indicated limitations with the study designs, analysis and 
results for all studies.
CONCLUSIONS: The review highlighted the paucity of evidence in this area. The 
four studies indicated the potential of interventions to reduce depression and 
be cost-effective compared with usual care. Two studies reported costs per QALY 
gained of USD 267 to USD 4,317, whilst two studies reported the intervention 
dominated usual care, with net savings of USD 440 to USD 612 and net gains in 
patient free days or QALYs.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462313000445
PMCID: PMC3846381
PMID: 24290331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2013 Oct;29(4):402-9. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462313000421.

Cost-utility of self-managed computer therapy for people with aphasia.

Latimer NR(1), Dixon S, Palmer R.

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to examine the potential 
cost-effectiveness of self-managed computer therapy for people with 
long-standing aphasia post stroke and to estimate the value of further research.
METHODS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of computer therapy in 
addition to usual stimulation compared with usual stimulation alone was 
considered in people with long-standing aphasia using data from the CACTUS 
trial. A model-based approach was taken. Where possible the input parameters 
required for the model were obtained from the CACTUS trial data, a United 
Kingdom-based pilot randomized controlled trial that recruited thirty-four 
people with aphasia and randomized them to computer treatment or usual care. 
Cost-effectiveness was described using an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) together with cost-effectiveness acceptability curves. A value of 
information analysis was undertaken to inform future research priorities.
RESULTS: The intervention had an ICER of £3,058 compared with usual care. The 
likelihood of the intervention being cost-effective was 75.8 percent at a 
cost-effectiveness threshold of £20,000 per QALY gained. The expected value of 
perfect information was £37 million.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that computer therapy for people with 
long-standing aphasia is likely to represent a cost-effective use of resources. 
However, our analysis is exploratory given the small size of the trial it is 
based upon and therefore our results are uncertain. Further research would be of 
high value, particularly with respect to the quality of life gain achieved by 
people who respond well to therapy.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462313000421
PMID: 24290333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. Curr Top Dev Biol. 2013;106:217-38. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-12-416021-7.00006-7.

From pancreas morphogenesis to β-cell regeneration.

Avolio F(1), Pfeifer A, Courtney M, Gjernes E, Ben-Othman N, Vieira A, Druelle 
N, Faurite B, Collombat P.

Author information:
(1)Univ. Nice Sophia Antipolis, iBV, UMR 7277, Nice, France; Inserm, iBV, U1091, 
Nice, France; CNRS, iBV, UMR 7277, Nice, France.

Type 1 diabetes is a metabolic disease resulting in the selective loss of 
pancreatic insulin-producing β-cells and affecting millions of people worldwide. 
The side effects of diabetes are varied and include cardiovascular, 
neuropathologic, and kidney diseases. Despite the most recent advances in 
diabetes care, patients suffering from type 1 diabetes still display a shortened 
life expectancy compared to their healthy counterparts. In an effort to improve 
β-cell-replacement therapies, numerous approaches are currently being pursued, 
most of these aiming at finding ways to differentiate stem/progenitor cells into 
β-like cells by mimicking embryonic development. Unfortunately, these efforts 
have hitherto not allowed the generation of fully functional β-cells. This 
chapter summarizes recent findings, allowing a better insight into the molecular 
mechanisms underlying the genesis of β-cells during the course of pancreatic 
morphogenesis. Furthermore, a focus is made on new research avenues concerning 
the conversion of pre-existing pancreatic cells into β-like cells, such 
approaches holding great promise for the development of type 1 diabetes 
therapies.

© 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-416021-7.00006-7
PMID: 24290351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


694. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2014 Mar;15(3):226.e7-226.e13. doi: 
10.1016/j.jamda.2013.10.010. Epub 2013 Nov 28.

Is dietetic treatment for undernutrition in older individuals in primary care 
cost-effective?

Schilp J(1), Bosmans JE(2), Kruizenga HM(3), Wijnhoven HAH(4), Visser M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences and EMGO Institute for Health and Research, 
Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; 
Dutch Malnutrition Steering Group, Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic 
address: jannekeschilp@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Health Sciences and EMGO Institute for Health and Research, 
Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; 
Department of Health Economics & Health Technology Assessment, Department of 
Health Sciences and EMGO Institute for Health and Research, Faculty of Earth and 
Life Sciences, VU University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Health Sciences and EMGO Institute for Health and Research, 
Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; 
Dutch Malnutrition Steering Group, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; Departments of 
Nutrition and Dietetics, Internal Medicine, and EMGO Institute for Health and 
Care Research, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Health Sciences and EMGO Institute for Health and Research, 
Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Health Sciences and EMGO Institute for Health and Research, 
Faculty of Earth and Life Sciences, VU University, Amsterdam, The Netherlands; 
Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics and the EMGO Institute for Health 
and Care Research, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: Undernutrition in older age is associated with adverse clinical 
outcomes and high health care costs. This study aimed to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of a dietetic treatment in primary care compared with usual 
care in older, undernourished, community-dwelling individuals.
DESIGN: A parallel randomized controlled trial.
SETTING: Primary care.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 146 undernourished, independently living older (≥65 
years) individuals.
INTERVENTION: Dietetic treatment.
MEASUREMENTS: Main outcomes were change in kilogram body weight compared with 
baseline and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) after 6 months. Costs were 
measured from a societal perspective. The main analysis was performed according 
to the intention-to-treat principle. Multiple imputation was used to impute 
missing data and bootstrapping was used to estimate uncertainty surrounding cost 
differences and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. Cost-effectiveness planes 
and cost-effectiveness acceptability curves were estimated.
RESULTS: The participants were randomized to receive either dietetic treatment 
(n = 72) or usual care (n = 74). After 6 months, no statistically significant 
differences were found between the dietetic treatment and usual care group in 
body weight change (mean difference 0.78 kg, 95% CI -0.26-1.82), QALYs (mean 
difference 0.001, 95% CI -0.04-0.04) and total costs (mean difference €1645, 95% 
CI -525-3547). The incremental cost-utility ratio (ICUR) for QALYs was not 
interpretable. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for body weight 
gain was 2111. The probability that dietetic treatment is cost-effective 
compared with usual care was 0.78 for a ceiling ratio of €5000 for body weight 
and 0.06 for a ceiling ratio of €20.000 for QALY.
CONCLUSION: In this study, dietetic treatment in older, undernourished, 
community-dwelling individuals was not cost-effective compared with usual care.

Copyright © 2014 American Medical Directors Association, Inc. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2013.10.010
PMID: 24290909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. Ageing Res Rev. 2014 Jan;13:38-45. doi: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.11.002. Epub 2013
Nov  27.

What are the roles of calorie restriction and diet quality in promoting healthy 
longevity?

Rizza W(1), Veronese N(2), Fontana L(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics and Nutritional Science and Center for Human 
Nutrition, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA; 
Department of Food and Human Nutrition Science, University Campus Bio-Medico, 
Rome, Italy.
(2)Division of Geriatrics and Nutritional Science and Center for Human 
Nutrition, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA; 
Division of Geriatrics, Department of Medicine, University of Padova, Italy.
(3)Division of Geriatrics and Nutritional Science and Center for Human 
Nutrition, Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA; 
Department of Medicine, University of Salerno Medical School, Salerno, Italy; 
CEINGE Biotecnologie Avanzate, Napoli, Italy. Electronic address: 
lfontana@dom.wustl.edu.

Epidemiological and experimental data indicate that diet plays a central role in 
the pathogenesis of many age-associated chronic diseases, and in the biology of 
aging itself. Data from several animal studies suggest that the degree and time 
of calorie restriction (CR) onset, the timing of food intake as well as diet 
composition, play major roles in promoting health and longevity, breaking the 
old dogma that only calorie intake is important in extending healthy lifespan. 
Data from human studies indicate that long-term CR with adequate intake of 
nutrients results in several metabolic adaptations that reduce the risk of 
developing type 2 diabetes, hypertension, cardiovascular disease and cancer. 
Moreover, CR opposes the expected age-associated alterations in myocardial 
stiffness, autonomic function, and gene expression in the human skeletal muscle. 
However, it is possible that some of the beneficial effects on metabolic health 
are not entirely due to CR, but to the high quality diets consumed by the CR 
practitioners, as suggested by data collected in individuals consuming strict 
vegan diets. More studies are needed to understand the interactions among single 
nutrient modifications (e.g. protein/aminoacid, fatty acids, vitamins, 
phytochemicals, and minerals), the degree of CR and the frequency of food 
consumption in modulating anti-aging metabolic and molecular pathways, and in 
the prevention of age-associated diseases.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arr.2013.11.002
PMID: 24291541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Environ Pollut. 2014 Feb;185:234-9. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2013.11.001. Epub
2013  Nov 27.

Evaluation of effects of long term exposure on lethal toxicity with mammals.

Verma V(1), Yu QJ(2), Connell DW(3).

Author information:
(1)Griffith School of Engineering, Griffith University, Nathan Campus, Brisbane, 
Queensland 4111, Australia. Electronic address: v.verma@griffith.edu.au.
(2)Griffith School of Engineering, Griffith University, Nathan Campus, Brisbane, 
Queensland 4111, Australia.
(3)Griffith School of Environment, Griffith University, Nathan Campus, Brisbane, 
Queensland 4111, Australia.

The relationship between exposure time (LT50) and lethal exposure concentration 
(LC50) has been evaluated over relatively long exposure times using a novel 
parameter, Normal Life Expectancy (NLT), as a long term toxicity point. The 
model equation, ln(LT50) = aLC50(ν) + b, where a, b and ν are constants, was 
evaluated by plotting lnLT50 against LC50 using available toxicity data based on 
inhalation exposure from 7 species of mammals. With each specific toxicant a 
single consistent relationship was observed for all mammals with ν always <1. 
Use of NLT as a long term toxicity point provided a valuable limiting point for 
long exposure times. With organic compounds, the Kow can be used to calculate 
the model constants a and v where these are unknown. The model can be used to 
characterise toxicity to specific mammals and then be extended to estimate 
toxicity at any exposure time with other mammals.

Crown Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2013.11.001
PMID: 24291612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. Osteoporos Int. 2014 Mar;25(3):953-64. doi: 10.1007/s00198-013-2567-3. Epub
2013  Nov 29.

Vertebral fracture assessment (VFA) by lateral DXA scanning may be 
cost-effective when used as part of fracture liaison services or primary care 
screening.

Clark EM(1), Carter L, Gould VC, Morrison L, Tobias JH.

Author information:
(1)Musculoskeletal Research Unit, Avon Orthopaedic Centre, Southmead Hospital, 
University of Bristol, Bristol, BS10 5NB, UK, Emma.Clark@bristol.ac.uk.

SUMMARY: We identified that use of VFA may be cost-effective in either selected 
women from primary care or women attending after a low trauma fracture.
INTRODUCTION: Lateral DXA scanning of the spine for vertebral fracture 
assessment (VFA) is used for research, but its wider role is unclear. We aimed 
to establish whether VFA is cost-effective in women based on two different 
scenarios: following a low-trauma fracture, and after screening of high-risk 
women identified in primary care.
METHODS: The fracture cohort (FC) consisted of 377 women and the primary care 
cohort (PCC) of 251. Vertebral fractures were identified on VFA images by 
quantitative morphometry (QM). Outcome was cost-effectiveness of VFA, based on 
predicted change in clinical management defined as the identification of a 
vertebral fracture in a patient who otherwise falls below the threshold for 
treatment. FRAX treatment thresholds assessed were (1) 20/3 % thresholds and (2) 
National Osteoporosis Guidelines Group (NOGG) thresholds.
RESULTS: As a result, 9.8 % from FC and 13.9 % from PCC were identified with 
vertebral fractures. Management was changed in 21 to 22/377 (5.6-5.8 %) in FC 
and 12 to 26/251 (4.8-10.4 %) from PCC depending on which thresholds were used. 
Sensitivity analyses identified medication adherence as the assumption which 
most influenced the model. The best-estimate cost-per-QALY for use of VFA in FC 
was £3,243 for 20/3 threshold and £2,130 for NOGG; for PCC, this was £7,831 for 
20/3 and was cost-saving for NOGG. Further analyses to adjust for potential 
false-positive vertebral fracture identification with QM showed VFA was no 
longer cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: VFA appears to be cost-effective in routine clinical practise, 
particularly when relatively inaccurate methods of identification of vertebral 
fractures are used such as QM.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-013-2567-3
PMID: 24292107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


698. Oecologia. 2014 Apr;174(4):1097-105. doi: 10.1007/s00442-013-2840-3. Epub
2013  Nov 30.

Senescence in cell oxidative status in two bird species with contrasting life 
expectancy.

Bize P(1), Cotting S, Devevey G, van Rooyen J, Lalubin F, Glaizot O, Christe P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ecology and Evolution, University of Lausanne, Biophore, 1015, 
Lausanne, Switzerland, pierre.bize@unil.ch.

Oxidative stress occurs when the production of reactive oxygen species (ROS) by 
an organism exceeds its capacity to mitigate the damaging effects of the ROS. 
Consequently, oxidative stress hypotheses of ageing argue that a decline in 
fecundity and an increase in the likelihood of death with advancing age reported 
at the organism level are driven by gradual disruption of the oxidative balance 
at the cellular level. Here, we measured erythrocyte resistance to oxidative 
stress in the same individuals over several years in two free-living bird 
species with contrasting life expectancy, the great tit (known maximum life 
expectancy is 15.4 years) and the Alpine swift (26 years). In both species, we 
found evidence for senescence in cell resistance to oxidative stress, with 
patterns of senescence becoming apparent as subjects get older. In the Alpine 
swift, there was also evidence for positive selection on cell resistance to 
oxidative stress, the more resistant subjects being longer lived. The present 
findings of inter-individual selection and intra-individual deterioration in 
cell oxidative status at old age in free-living animals support a role for 
oxidative stress in the ageing of wild animals.

DOI: 10.1007/s00442-013-2840-3
PMID: 24292795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Mol Cells. 2013 Dec;36(6):564-70. doi: 10.1007/s10059-013-0266-8. Epub 2013
Nov  29.

Structural and functional characterization of Arabidopsis GSK3-like kinase 
AtSK12.

Youn JH(1), Kim TW, Kim EJ, Bu S, Kim SK, Wang ZY, Kim TW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, College of Natural Sciences, Chungang University, 
Seoul, 156-756, Korea.

Plant GSK3-like kinases are key regulators that modulate a broad range of 
physiological processes such as cell growth, stomatal and flower development, 
responses for abiotic and biotic stress, and carbohydrate metabolism. 
Arabidopsis Shaggy/GSK3-like kinases (AtSK) consist of ten members that are 
classified into four subfamilies (I∼IV). Only one of these Arabidopsis GSK3s, 
BIN2 (also named AtSK21), has been characterized by biochemical and genetic 
studies. BIN2 acts as a negative regulator in brassinosteroid (BR) signaling 
that controls cell growth and differentiation. Recent studies suggest that at 
least seven AtSKs are involved in BR signaling. However, specificities for the 
substrates and the functional differences of each member of the family remain to 
be determined. Here we report structural characteristics and distinct function 
of AtSK12 compared with BIN2. AtSK12 has a longer N-terminal extension, which is 
absent in BIN2. Transgenic plants overexpressing the AtSK12 mutant carrying 
deletion of Nterminal region display more severe dwarf phenotypes than those of 
the wild-type AtSK12. Microscopic analysis reveals that N-terminal-deleted 
AtSK12 accumulates in the nucleus. This implies that structural difference in 
the Nterminal region of AtSK members contributes to their subcellular 
localization. In contrast to BIN2, overexpression of AtSK12 does not cause a 
stomatal cluster. Furthermore, we show that YODA MAPKKK, which controls stomatal 
development, interacts with BIN2 but not with AtSK12. Our results suggest that 
AtSK12 mediates BR-regulated cell growth but not stomatal development while BIN2 
regulates both processes. Our study provides evidence that different GSK3 
members can have overlapping but non-identical functions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10059-013-0266-8
PMCID: PMC3887958
PMID: 24292946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Health Care Manag Sci. 2014 Sep;17(3):230-44. doi:
10.1007/s10729-013-9258-7.  Epub 2013 Nov 29.

Optimal distribution of medical backpacks and health surveillance assistants in 
Malawi.

Kunkel AG(1), Van Itallie ES, Wu D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, 677 Huntington 
Ave, Boston, MA, 02215, USA, agkunkel@gmail.com.

Despite recent progress, Malawi continues to perform poorly on key health 
indicators such as child mortality and life expectancy. These problems are 
exacerbated by a severe lack of access to health care. Health Surveillance 
Assistants (HSAs) help bridge this gap by providing community-level access to 
basic health care services. However, the success of these HSAs is limited by a 
lack of supplies and long distances between HSAs and patients. To address this 
issue, we used large-scale weighted p-median and capacitated facility location 
problems to create a scalable, three-tiered plan for optimal allocation of HSAs, 
HSA designated medical backpacks, and backpack resupply centers. Our analysis 
uses real data on the location and characteristics of hospitals, health centers, 
and the general population. In addition to offering specific recommendations for 
HSA, backpack, and resupply center locations, it provides general insights into 
the scope of the proposed HSA backpack program scale-up. In particular, it 
demonstrates the importance of local health centers to the resupply network. The 
proposed assignments are robust to changes in the underlying population 
structure, and could significantly improve access to medical supplies for both 
HSAs and patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10729-013-9258-7
PMCID: PMC4038669
PMID: 24293077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


701. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Jan;32(1):75-86. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0110-1.

The value of a QALY: individual willingness to pay for health gains under risk.

Bobinac A(1), van Exel J, Rutten FF, Brouwer WB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy & Management and Institute for Medical Technology 
Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam (iBMG/iMTA), P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands, bobinac@bmg.eur.nl.

BACKGROUND: There is an increased interest in the monetary value of a 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Past studies commonly derived willingness to 
pay (WTP) for certain future QALY gains. However, obtaining valid WTP per QALY 
estimates proved to be difficult.
OBJECTIVE: We conducted a contingent valuation study and estimated the 
individual WTP per QALY under risk. We demonstrate the impact of probability 
weighting on WTP per QALY estimates in the Netherlands.
RESULTS: Our estimates of the value of a QALY are in the range of 
€80,000-110,000 when the weighting correction was applied, and €250,500 without 
correction. The validity of these estimates, applying probability weighting, 
appears to be good.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the reasonable support for their validity and practical 
meaningfulness, the estimates derived while correcting for probability weighting 
may provide valuable input for the debate on the consumption value of health. 
While decision makers should not apply these estimates without further 
consideration, since strictly individual valuations may not carry all relevant 
information and values for societal decision-making, the current estimates may 
provide a good and informed basis for further discussion and study of this 
important topic.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0110-1
PMID: 24293198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Dec;31(12):1131-54. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0107-9.

The estimation of utility weights in cost-utility analysis for mental disorders: 
a systematic review.

Sonntag M(1), König HH, Konnopka A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics and Health Services Research, Hamburg Center 
for Health Economics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Martinistr. 
52, 20246, Hamburg, Germany, mi.sonntag@uke.de.

OBJECTIVE: To systematically review approaches and instruments used to derive 
utility weights in cost-utility analyses (CUAs) within the field of mental 
disorders and to identify factors that may have influenced the choice of the 
approach.
METHODS: We searched the databases DARE (Database of Abstracts of Reviews of 
Effects), NHS EED (National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database), HTA 
(Health Technology Assessment), and PubMed for CUAs. Studies were included if 
they were full economic evaluations and reported quality-adjusted life-years as 
the health outcome. Study characteristics and instruments used to estimate 
utility weights were described and a logistic regression analysis was conducted 
to identify factors associated with the choice of either the direct (e.g. 
standard gamble) or the preference-based measure (PBM) approach (e.g. EQ-5D).
RESULTS: We identified 227 CUAs with a maximum in 2009, 2010, and 2012. Most 
CUAs were conducted in depression, dementia, or psychosis, and came from the US 
or the UK, with the EQ-5D being the most frequently used instrument. The 
application of the direct approach was significantly associated with depression, 
psychosis, and model-based studies. The PBM approach was more likely to be used 
in recent studies, dementia, Europe, and empirical studies. Utility weights used 
in model-based studies were derived from only a small number of studies.
LIMITATIONS: We only searched four databases and did not evaluate the quality of 
the included studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Direct instruments and PBMs are used to elicit utility weights in 
CUAs with different frequencies regarding study type, mental disorder, and 
country.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0107-9
PMID: 24293216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Eur Respir Rev. 2013 Dec;22(130):437-53. doi: 10.1183/09059180.00008012.

Respiratory manifestations in patients with inherited metabolic diseases.

Santamaria F(1), Montella S, Mirra V, De Stefano S, Andria G, Parenti G.

Author information:
(1)Dept of Paediatrics, Federico II University, Naples, Italy.

Growing evidence indicates that inherited metabolic diseases are increasingly 
being recognised. Life expectancy for many patients is progressively improving 
because new therapeutic strategies are available. Because most inherited 
metabolic diseases are systemic disorders, virtually all organs may be involved. 
Respiratory disease complicates the management of several inherited metabolic 
diseases, either at presentation or as late-onset features. This review will 
describe the most exemplary respiratory manifestations of inherited metabolic 
diseases in childhood and adulthood. Since airways disease worsens the morbidity 
of many inherited metabolic disorders, leading to increased hospitalisations, 
mortality and overall healthcare costs, respiratory manifestations of inherited 
metabolic diseases need to be carefully recognised and treated. All patients 
with inherited metabolic disease and suspected airway disease should undergo a 
detailed diagnostic work-up. Current treatments for several inherited metabolic 
diseases (including enzyme replacement therapy, substrate reduction, bone marrow 
transplantation, or even more innovative strategies such as pharmacological 
chaperone or gene therapies) may provide significant benefits for associated 
respiratory disease. The integration of several specialists dedicated to airway 
disease management in a multidisciplinary team is essential to provide the most 
appropriate care to children and adults with inherited metabolic disease.

DOI: 10.1183/09059180.00008012
PMCID: PMC9639176
PMID: 24293461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


704. Ther Adv Urol. 2013 Dec;5(6):330-7. doi: 10.1177/1756287213496127.

Considerations for patient selection for focal therapy.

Ward JF(1), Pisters LL.

Author information:
(1)Associate Professor, Department of Urology, The University of Texas, MD 
Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX 77030, USA.

Focal therapy for prostate cancer is a nascent and emerging field. As such, the 
patient selection criteria for this new treatment paradigm are evolving in 
parallel to both the technology on which this approach depends and to our 
unfolding understanding of the natural history of prostate cancer. Until, and 
while, prospective trials of focal therapy are being reported, patient selection 
criteria will be flexible and very dependent on the therapeutic goals. We must 
carefully define the therapeutic intentions of focal therapy before engaging in 
the actual process of determining optimal patient selection. The therapeutic 
intent will define the most appropriate candidate for such therapy. Patient 
selection encompasses multiple complex issues including the type of prostate 
biopsy (12 core transrectal versus mapping transperineal) to the type of imaging 
(multiparametric magnetic resonance imaging or enhanced ultrasound) to the 
specific anatomical location of the disease within the prostate (apex, 
mid-prostate, base) and a comprehensive assessment of the patient's overall 
health and life expectancy. It is not as simple as saying a patient with a 
certain grade or a certain number of cores is or is not appropriate for focal 
therapy. There are many more considerations for a reasonable and thoughtful 
approach to this new treatment.

DOI: 10.1177/1756287213496127
PMCID: PMC3825108
PMID: 24294291

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: All authors are 
consultants at Watermark Re-search Partners, Inc. and at Healthtronics, Inc.


705. Syst Synth Biol. 2012 Dec;6(3-4):79-83. doi: 10.1007/s11693-012-9101-3. Epub
 2012 Dec 5.

Are we doing synthetic biology?

Porcar M(1), Peretó J.

Author information:
(1)Institut Cavanilles de Biodiversitat i Biologia Evolutiva, Universitat de 
València, Apartat, Postal 22085, 46071 Valencia, Spain ; Fundació General de la 
Universitat de València, Valencia, Spain ; Departament de Genètica, Universitat 
de València, Valencia, Spain.

Synthetic Biology is a singular, revolutionary scenario with a vast range of 
practical applications but, is SB research really based on engineering 
principles? Is it contributing to the artificial synthesis of life or using 
approaches "sophisticated" enough to fall outside the scope of biotechnology or 
metabolic engineering? We have reviewed the state of the art on synthetic 
biology and we conclude that most research projects actually describe an 
extension of metabolic engineering. We draw this conclusion because the 
complexity of living organisms, their tight dependence on evolution and our 
limited knowledge of the interactions between the molecules they are made of, 
actually make life difficult to engineer. We therefore propose the term 
synthetic biology should be used more sparingly.

DOI: 10.1007/s11693-012-9101-3
PMCID: PMC3528885
PMID: 24294342


706. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2013 Oct;54(4):366-9. doi:
10.3340/jkns.2013.54.4.366.  Epub 2013 Oct 31.

Surgical Tips to Preserve the Facet Joint during Microdiscectomy.

Park MK(1), Kim KT, Cho DC, Sung JK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Kyungpook National University Hospital, Daegu, 
Korea.

Lumbar microdiscectomy (MD) is the gold standard for treatment of lumbar disc 
herniation. Generally, the surgeon attempts to protect the facet joint in hopes 
of avoiding postoperative pain/instability and secondary degenerative 
arthropathy. We believe that preserving the facet joint is especially important 
in young patients, owing to their life expectancy and activity. However, 
preserving the facet joint is not easy during lumbar MD. We propose several 
technical tips (superolateral extension of conventional laminotomy, oblique 
drilling for laminotomy, and additional foraminotomy) for facet joint 
preservation during lumbar MD.

DOI: 10.3340/jkns.2013.54.4.366
PMCID: PMC3841285
PMID: 24294466


707. J Gastrointest Oncol. 2013 Dec;4(4):E30-2. doi: 
10.3978/j.issn.2078-6891.2013.031.

Cholangiocarcinoma: treatment with sorafenib extended life expectancy to greater 
than four years.

Chakunta HR(1), Sunderkrishnan R, Kaplan MA, Mostofi R.

Author information:
(1)Associates in Hematology-Oncology, Crozer Chester Medical Center, Upland, PA, 
USA.

INTRODUCTION: Cholangiocarcinomas arise from the epithelial cells of 
intrahepatic and extrahepatic bile ducts. They generally have a very poor 
prognosis. Many studies report a dismal median survival of approximately 6 
months. In this case, we have a patient diagnosed with cholangiocarcinoma who 
has remarkably exceeded life expectancy to greater than 4 years with a fourth 
line agent Sorafenib.
CASE DESCRIPTION: This is a 51 y/o male who was diagnosed with 
cholangiocarcinoma approximately  4.5 years ago. After initial work up suggested 
locally advanced carcinoma, the patient was started on systemic chemotherapy. 
Despite multiple cycles with GEMOX, capecitabine and 5-FU, the carcinoma 
progressed. A fourth line agent, Sorafenib, was initiated. This multikinase 
inhibitor drug is FDA approved for hepatocellular carcinoma and renal cell 
carcinoma, however the potential efficacy of this agent for treating 
cholangiocarcinoma is largely unknown. Despite some latest trials suggesting a 
median survival of  4.4 months, our patient has survived on this chemotherapy 
agent for almost 4 years now.
DISCUSSION: This case illustrates the potential benefit of using Sorafenib in 
locally advanced cholangiocarcinoma. This provides hope for more trials, to 
establish selection criteria for administration of this drug.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2078-6891.2013.031
PMCID: PMC3819782
PMID: 24294517


708. Thorac Surg Clin. 2014 Feb;24(1):117-127. doi:
10.1016/j.thorsurg.2013.09.006.  Epub 2013 Nov 9.

Treatment of malignant tracheoesophageal fistula.

Hürtgen M(1), Herber SCA(2).

Author information:
(1)Thoracic Surgery Department, Catholic Clinics Koblenz-Montabaur, University 
Teaching Hospital, R. Virchow Street 7, 56073 Koblenz, Germany.
(2)Radiology Department, Catholic Clinics Koblenz-Montabaur, University Teaching 
Hospital, R. Virchow Street 7, 56073 Koblenz, Germany. Electronic address: 
s.herber@kk-km.de.

This article addresses the treatment of malignant enterorespiratory fistulas, 
especially malignant tracheoesophageal fistula (mTEF). mTEF typically occurs 
after radiochemotherapy for advanced esophageal cancer. Life expectancy is 
measured in months after successful treatment, and in days to weeks with a 
persistent fistula. To stop repeated episodes of aspiration and septic 
pneumonia, single or double stenting of the esophagus and trachea with 
self-expandable coated stents is the established palliative treatment. The 
indications, techniques, and pitfalls of esophageal and tracheal stenting are 
described. Surgical interventions are justified only in very select cases, so 
this article focuses on interventional rather than surgical treatment.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thorsurg.2013.09.006
PMID: 24295667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Nat Rev Nephrol. 2014 Feb;10(2):116-22. doi: 10.1038/nrneph.2013.256. Epub
2013  Dec 3.

Elderly patients with CKD--dilemmas in dialysis therapy and vascular access.

Vachharajani TJ(1), Moist LM(2), Glickman MH(3), Vazquez MA(4), Polkinghorne 
KR(5), Lok CE(6), Lee TC(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Nephrology, W. G. (Bill) Hefner Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
1601 Brenner Avenue, Salisbury, NC 28144, USA.
(2)Kidney Clinical Research Unit, Division of Nephrology, Schulich School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, Victoria Hospital, Canada.
(3)Department of Vascular Surgery, Eastern Virginia Medical School, USA.
(4)Division of Nephrology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center, USA.
(5)Department of Medicine and Department of Nephrology, Monash Medical Center & 
Monash University, Australia.
(6)Division of Nephrology, Department of Medicine, Toronto General Hospital and 
University of Toronto, Canada.
(7)Division of Nephrology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, USA.

The population of elderly patients with end-stage renal disease (ESRD) is 
growing rapidly worldwide. The high prevalence of comorbidities, limited life 
expectancy and complex quality of life issues associated with this population 
pose substantial challenges for clinicians in terms of clinical decision-making 
and providing optimal care. The first dilemma encountered in the management of 
an elderly patient with ESRD is deciding whether to initiate renal replacement 
therapy and, if so, selecting the most-suitable dialysis modality. Planning 
vascular access for haemodialysis is associated with additional challenges. 
Several clinical practice guidelines recommend an arteriovenous fistula, rather 
than a central venous catheter or arteriovenous graft, as the preferred access 
for maintenance haemodialysis therapy. However, whether this recommendation is 
applicable to elderly patients with ESRD and a limited life expectancy is 
unclear. Selection and planning of the most appropriate vascular access for an 
elderly patient with ESRD requires careful consideration of several factors and 
ultimately should lead to an improvement in the patient's quality of life.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneph.2013.256
PMID: 24296629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. Gerontology. 2014;60(2):143-53. doi: 10.1159/000355310. Epub 2013 Nov 28.

Do women live longer or do men die earlier? Reflections on the causes of sex 
differences in life expectancy.

Luy M(1), Gast K.

Author information:
(1)Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (IIASA, VID/OEAW, 
WU), Vienna Institute of Demography of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, 
Austria.

BACKGROUND: Although many different factors have been identified to contribute 
to excess male mortality, it is still unclear which path of the complex 
cause-effect chain is the decisive driver of the life expectancy gap between 
women and men.
OBJECTIVE: The question behind this study is whether these sex differences are 
caused primarily by factors leading to low female mortality or rather by factors 
causing high male mortality. We hypothesise that they are to a large extent 
caused by specific subpopulations of men with particularly high mortality levels 
that decrease the average life expectancy of men.
METHODS: To test this hypothesis, we investigate in a meta-analysis the 
variability in mortality (VM) in women and men - defined as the range of death 
rates prevailing among subpopulations - in empirical studies analysing specific 
phenomena of mortality differentials. We used the data of 72 empirical studies, 
including 146 total effects (TE) and 1,718 single effects (SE) for 21 different 
risk factors.
RESULTS: In 85% of TE and three quarters of SE the VM was higher in men than in 
women, taking into account men's higher overall mortality. The corresponding 
figures for the direct differences in the VM between women and men are 92 and 
82%, respectively. Cases with higher female VM are rare exceptions and appear in 
particular in the highest age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: We find support for our hypothesis that the disproportionate high 
mortality levels of specific male subpopulations are the central cause of the 
current extent of sex differences in life expectancy. Thus, public health 
programmes should be targeted toward these disadvantaged subpopulations among 
men which seem to be related primarily to socioeconomic characteristics.

DOI: 10.1159/000355310
PMID: 24296637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Rev Endocr Metab Disord. 2014 Jun;15(2):137-47. doi:
10.1007/s11154-013-9280-6.

Adiponectin signaling in the liver.

Combs TP(1), Marliss EB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel 
Hill, NC, 27516, USA, terrycombs@unc.edu.

High glucose production contributes to fed and fasted hyperglycemia in Type 1 
Diabetes (T1D) and Type 2 Diabetes (T2D). The breakdown of the adiponectin 
signaling pathway in T1D and the reduction of circulating adiponectin in T2D 
contribute to this abnormal increase in glucose production. Sufficient amounts 
of insulin could compensate for the loss of adiponectin signaling in T1D and T2D 
and reduce hyperglycemia. However, the combination of low adiponectin signaling 
and high insulin resembles an insulin resistance state associated with 
cardiovascular disease, fatty liver disease and decreased life expectancy. The 
future development of "adiponectin sensitizers", medications that correct the 
deficiency in adiponectin signaling, could restore the metabolic balance in T1D 
and T2D and reduce the need for insulin. This article reviews the adiponectin 
signaling pathway in the liver through T-cadherin, AdipoR1, AdipoR2, AMPK, 
ceramidase activity, APPL1 and the recently discovered Suppressor Of Glucose 
from Autophagy (SOGA).

DOI: 10.1007/s11154-013-9280-6
PMCID: PMC4152934
PMID: 24297186 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. BJOG. 2014 Mar;121(4):464-76. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.12460. Epub 2013 Dec 3.

Evaluating PET-CT in routine surveillance and follow-up after treatment for 
cervical cancer: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Auguste P(1), Barton P, Meads C, Davenport C, Małysiak S, Kowalska M, Zapalska 
A, Guest P, Martin-Hirsch P, Borowiack E, Khan K, Sundar S, Roberts T.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To undertake a cost-effectiveness analysis that compares positron 
emission tomography - computed tomography (PET-CT) imaging plus standard 
practice with standard practice alone in the diagnosis of recurrent or 
persistent cervical cancer during routine surveillance and follow-up of women 
who have previously been diagnosed and treated.
DESIGN: Model-based economic evaluation using data from a systematic review, 
supplemented with data from other sources, and taking a UK National Health 
Service (NHS) perspective.
SETTING: Secondary Care in England.
POPULATION: Women at least 3 months after the completion of treatment, with 
either recurrent or persistent cervical cancer.
METHODS: A state transition (Markov) model was developed using TreeAge Pro 2011. 
The structure of the model was informed by the reviews of the trials and 
clinical input. In the model, two diagnostic strategies were examined. A one-way 
sensitivity analysis, probabilistic sensitivity analysis, and a value of 
information analysis were also carried out.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost-effectiveness based on incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY).
RESULTS: Adding PET-CT to the current treatment strategy of clinical examination 
and scanning [magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and/or CT scan] during the 
routine surveillance and follow-up of women with recurrent or persistent 
cervical cancer is significantly more costly, with only a minimal increase in 
effectiveness. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for the strategy 
of PET-CT as an adjunct to the standard treatment strategy that included 
clinical examination, MRI, and/or CT scan, compared with the usual treatment 
alone, was over £1 million per QALY.
CONCLUSION: The results of the current analysis suggest that use of PET-CT in 
the diagnosis of recurrent or persistent cervical cancer is not cost-effective. 
Current guidelines recommending imaging using PET-CT as a diagnostic or 
surveillance tool need to be reconsidered in light of these results. This study 
did not specifically investigate the use of PET-CT in women with symptoms and 
radiological suspicion of recurrence where exenteration was considered. More 
research in that specific area is required.

© 2013 Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.12460
PMID: 24299112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Genes Brain Behav. 2014 Feb;13(2):152-62. doi: 10.1111/gbb.12114. Epub 2013
Dec  26.

Abnormal semantic processing in females with fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia 
syndrome.

Yang JC(1), Simon C, Schneider A, Seritan AL, Hamilton L, Hagerman PJ, Hagerman 
RJ, Olichney JM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University of California Davis School of Medicine, 
Sacramento; Center for Mind and Brain, University of California Davis, Davis.

Fragile X-associated tremor/ataxia syndrome (FXTAS), a neurodegenerative 
disorder, affects fragile X (FMR1) gene premutation carriers in late life. 
Studies have shown cognitive impairments in FXTAS including executive 
dysfunction, working memory and visuospatial deficits. However, less is known 
about cognition in females with FXTAS. Thus, we examined semantic processing and 
verbal memory in female FXTAS patients with event-related potentials (ERPs) and 
neuropsychological testing. Sixty-one females (34 FXTAS, Mage  = 62.7; 27 
controls, Mage  = 60.4) were studied with 32-channel ERPs during a category 
judgment task in which semantically congruous (50%) and incongruous items were 
repeated approximately 10-140 seconds later. N400 and P600 amplitude data were 
submitted to analysis of covariance. Neuropsychological testing demonstrated 
lower performance in verbal learning and executive function in females with 
FXTAS. Event-related potential analyses showed a significant reduction of the 
N400 congruity effect (incongruous - congruous) in the FXTAS group. The N400 
congruity effect reduction in females with FXTAS was mainly due to increased 
N400 amplitude to congruous new words. No significant abnormalities of the N400 
repetition effect or the P600 repetition effect were found, indicating preserved 
implicit memory and verbal memory, respectively, in females with FXTAS. The 
decreased N400 congruity effect suggests abnormal semantic expectancy and/or 
semantic network disorganization in female FXTAS patients. The enhanced N400 
amplitude to congruous new words may reflect decreased cognitive flexibility 
among FXTAS women, making access to less typical category exemplar words more 
difficult.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd and International Behavioural and Neural Genetics 
Society.

DOI: 10.1111/gbb.12114
PMCID: PMC3905835
PMID: 24299169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Diabet Med. 2014 Apr;31(4):477-86. doi: 10.1111/dme.12371. Epub 2014 Feb 5.

Assessing the cost-effectiveness of type 1 diabetes interventions: the Sheffield 
type 1 diabetes policy model.

Thokala P(1), Kruger J, Brennan A, Basarir H, Duenas A, Pandor A, Gillett M, 
Elliott J, Heller S.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

AIMS: To build a flexible and comprehensive long-term type 1 diabetes mellitus 
model incorporating the most up-to-date methodologies to allow a number of 
cost-effectiveness evaluations.
METHODS: This paper describes the conceptual modelling, model implementation and 
model validation of the Sheffield type 1 diabetes policy model (version 1.0), 
developed through funding by the U.K. National Institute for Health Research as 
part of the Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating research programme. The model is 
an individual patient-level simulation model of type 1 diabetes and it includes 
long-term microvascular (retinopathy, neuropathy and nephropathy) and 
macrovascular (myocardial infarction, stroke, revascularization and angina) 
diabetes-related complications and acute adverse events (severe hypoglycaemia 
and diabetic ketoacidosis). The occurrence of these diabetes-related 
complications in the model is linked to simulated individual patient-level risk 
factors, including HbA1c , age, duration of diabetes, lipids and blood pressure. 
Transition probabilities were modelled based on a combination of existing risk 
functions, published trials, epidemiological studies and individual-level data 
from the Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating research programme.
RESULTS: The model takes a lifetime perspective, estimating the impact of 
interventions on costs, clinical outcomes, survival and quality-adjusted life 
years. Validation of the model suggested that, for almost all diabetes-related 
complications predicted, event rates were within 10% of the normalized rates 
reported in the studies used to build the model.
CONCLUSIONS: The model is highly flexible and has broad potential application to 
evaluate the Dose Adjustment for Normal Eating research programme, other 
structured diabetes education programmes and other interventions for type 1 
diabetes.

© 2013 Crown copyright. Diabetic Medicine © 2013 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/dme.12371
PMID: 24299192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2014 Mar;80(3):319-21. doi: 10.1111/cen.12378. Epub
2014  Jan 12.

