initiate transcriptional changes that contribute to perturbed lipid metabolism, 
thereby fueling a pro-atherogenic milieu. It may also directly alter ionic 
channels and interfere with electrical signaling in the myocardium. Therefore 
HIV PI-induced ROS together with a dysfunctional UPS elicit detrimental effects 
on the cardiovascular system that will eventually result in the onset of heart 
diseases. Thus while HIV PIs substantially improve life expectancy and quality 
of life in HIV-positive patients, its longer-term side-effects on the 
cardiovascular system should lead to a) greater clinical awareness regarding its 
benefit-harm paradigm, and b) the development and evaluation of novel 
co-treatment strategies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbadis.2013.11.019
PMID: 24275553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. J Clin Gastroenterol. 2014 Oct;48(9):e85-8. doi:
10.1097/MCG.0000000000000034.

Early colon screening of adult patients with cystic fibrosis reveals high 
incidence of adenomatous colon polyps.

Billings JL(1), Dunitz JM, McAllister S, Herzog T, Bobr A, Khoruts A.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Medicine, Division of Pulmonary Medicine †Department of 
Medicine, Division of Gastroenterology, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, 
MN.

BACKGROUND AND GOALS: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is associated with increased 
incidence of gastrointestinal cancer. Increasing overall life expectancy of CF 
patients predicts emergence of colon cancer as a significant clinical problem in 
the adult CF population. The primary aim of this study was to estimate the 
incidence of adenomatous colon polyps in patients with CF during systematic 
screening by colonoscopy.
STUDY: This is a single-center series of 45 CF patients aged 40 years and above 
(mean age, 47 y) undergoing colonoscopic screening. A fraction of these patients 
(9/45) had history of organ transplantation. Results from transplant and 
nontransplant patients were analyzed separately.
RESULTS: Adult CF patients have a high incidence of adenomatous polyps 
identified by colonoscopy. In addition, positive examinations are characterized 
by multiple polyps and common features of advanced pathology. The incidence of 
adenomatous colon polyps is greater in male patients, although the 1 patient in 
this cohort found to have colorectal cancer was female.
CONCLUSIONS: CF has features of a hereditary colon cancer syndrome. Increasing 
life expectancy of CF patients suggests that earlier colon screening in this 
population may be warranted. Optimal criteria for initiation of screening and 
frequency of surveillance should be subject of further studies.

DOI: 10.1097/MCG.0000000000000034
PMID: 24275715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Curr Opin Organ Transplant. 2014 Feb;19(1):54-9. doi: 
10.1097/MOT.0000000000000032.

Mesenchymal stromal cells to prevent fibrosis in kidney transplantation.

Reinders ME(1), de Fijter JW, Rabelink TJ.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Nephrology bEinthoven Laboratory for Experimental Vascular 
Medicine, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Kidney transplantation has improved the life expectancy and 
quality of life for patients with end-stage renal failure. However, despite the 
impressive improvements in short-term outcome parameters because of better and 
more potent immunosuppressive drugs, the long-term survival of renal allografts 
has changed little over the last decades. Sustained inflammation in the areas of 
interstitial fibrosis and tubular atrophy (IFTA) is a strong predictor of 
allograft failure. Mesenchymal stromal cells (MSCs) have potent 
anti-inflammatory and reparative properties, and could thus play a role in 
controlling these processes.
RECENT FINDINGS: Local resident MSCs and exogenous MSCs have been implicated in 
the repair of the injured kidney, mostly by their paracrine functions. In the 
experimental models and clinical trials, first results with MSCs for the 
treatment of inflammation and IFTA suggest beneficial effects.
SUMMARY: Endogenously and exogenously administered MSCs might enhance the 
intrinsic reparative capabilities of the kidney in transplant recipients and 
maybe developed as a tool to control both inflammation and fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1097/MOT.0000000000000032
PMID: 24275894 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Ann Surg Oncol. 2014 Mar;21(3):767-77. doi: 10.1245/s10434-013-3398-3. Epub
2013  Nov 26.

A cost-utility analysis for prophylactic central neck dissection in clinically 
nodal-negative papillary thyroid carcinoma.

Wong CK(1), Lang BH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, University of Hong Kong, Ap 
Lei Chau, Hong Kong.

BACKGROUND: Although prophylactic central neck dissection (pCND) may reduce 
future locoregional recurrence after total thyroidectomy (TT) for low-risk 
papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC), it is associated with a higher initial 
morbidity. We aimed to compare the long-term cost-effectiveness between TT with 
pCND (TT+pCND) and TT alone in the institution's perspective.
METHODS: Our case definition was a hypothetical cohort of 100,000 nonpregnant 
female patients aged 50 years with a 1.5-cm cN0 PTC within one lobe. A Markov 
decision tree model was constructed to compare the estimated cost-effectiveness 
between TT+pCND and TT alone after a 20-year period. Outcome probabilities, 
utilities, and costs were estimated from the literature. The threshold for 
cost-effectiveness was set at US$50,000 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). 
Sensitivity and threshold analyses were used to examine model uncertainty.
RESULTS: Each patient who underwent TT+pCND instead of TT alone cost an extra 
US$34.52 but gained an additional 0.323 QALY. In fact, in the sensitivity 
analysis, TT+pCND became cost-effective 9 years after the initial operation. In 
the threshold analysis, none of the scenarios that could change this conclusion 
appeared clinically possible or likely. However, TT+pCND became cost-saving 
(i.e., less costly and more cost-effective) at 20 years if associated permanent 
vocal cord palsy was kept ≤ 1.37 %, permanent hypoparathyroidism was ≤ 1.20 %, 
and/or postoperative radioiodine ablation use was ≤ 73.64 %.
CONCLUSIONS: In the institution's perspective, routine pCND for low-risk PTC 
began to become cost-effective 9 years after initial surgery and became 
cost-saving at 20 years if postoperative radioiodine use and/or permanent 
surgical complications were kept to a minimum.

DOI: 10.1245/s10434-013-3398-3
PMID: 24276639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


649. Pediatrics. 2013 Dec;132(6):e1709-14. doi: 10.1542/peds.2013-0492. Epub 2013
Nov  25.

Malignant paraganglioma presenting with hemorrhagic stroke in a child.

Luiz HV(1), da Silva TN, Pereira BD, Santos JG, Gonçalves D, Manita I, Portugal 
J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology and Diabetology, Garcia de Orta Hospital, Avenida 
Torrado da Silva, 2801-951 Almada, Portugal. hvaraluiz@gmail.com.

Sympathetic paragangliomas are rare catecholamine-secreting tumors of 
extra-adrenal origin, and their diagnosis in children is even more infrequent. 
They usually manifest as hypertension, palpitations, headache, sweating, and 
pallor. Malignant paragangliomas are identified by the presence of metastasis. 
Hemorrhagic stroke in the pediatric population is a life-threatening condition 
with several etiologies. We report here the case of a 12-year-old boy with 
malignant sympathetic paraganglioma presenting with hemorrhagic stroke. Severe 
hypertension was found and the patient evolved into a coma. Brain computed 
tomography scan showed right thalamus hemorrhage with intraventricular 
extension. After clinical improvement, further investigation revealed elevated 
catecholamine and metanephrine levels, and 2 abdominal tumors were identified by 
computed tomography. Resection of both lesions was performed, and histologic 
findings were consistent with paraganglioma. Multiple metastatic involvement of 
bones and soft tissues appeared several years later. Genetic testing identified 
a mutation in succinate dehydrogenase subunit B gene, with paternal 
transmission. 131I-metaiodobenzylguanidine therapy was performed 3 times with no 
tumoral response. Our patient is alive, with adequate quality of life, 25 years 
after initial diagnosis. To our knowledge, this is the first pediatric case of 
paraganglioma presenting with hemorrhagic stroke. Intracerebral hemorrhage was 
probably caused by severe hypertension due to paraganglioma. Therefore, we 
expand the recognized clinical spectrum of the disease. Physicians evaluating 
children with hemorrhagic stroke, particularly if hypertension is a main 
symptom, should consider the possibility of catecholamine-secreting tumors. 
Metastatic disease is associated with succinate dehydrogenase subunit B 
mutations and, although some patients have poor prognosis, progression can be 
indolent.

DOI: 10.1542/peds.2013-0492
PMID: 24276837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. Support Care Cancer. 2014 Mar;22(3):783-93. doi: 10.1007/s00520-013-2034-x.
Epub  2013 Nov 26.

The Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) as a screening tool for depression 
and anxiety in non-advanced patients with solid or haematological malignancies 
on cure or follow-up.

Ripamonti CI(1), Bandieri E, Pessi MA, Maruelli A, Buonaccorso L, Miccinesi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hematology and Pediatric Onco-Hematology, Supportive Care in 
Cancer Unit, Fondazione IRCCS, Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori, Via Venezian, 1, 
20133, Milan, Italy, carla.ripamonti@istitutotumori.mi.it.

BACKGROUND: Symptoms' assessment should be considered a clinical practice 
routine in all cancer stages. The Edmonton Symptom Assessment System (ESAS) is a 
ten-item patient-rated symptom assessment developed and validated for population 
affected by cancer in different languages and cultures. The main objective of 
this study was to assess the performance of ESAS items on anxiety and depression 
when detecting Hospital Anxiety Depression Scale (HADS) 'cases'.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was carried out on 194 non-advanced patients 
with solid (108) or hematologic malignancies on cure or follow up, Karnofsky 
Performance Status ≥ 70, life expectancy > 6 months and no metastases. Patients 
were assessed by means of ESAS and by HADS. Receiving operator characteristic 
(ROC) analysis of ESAS anxiety and depression items versus cases of severe 
(cutoff 11) anxiety and depression according to HADS-specific subscales was 
performed.
RESULTS: Depression and anxiety ESAS items correlated strongly (0.707, 
Spearman). Area under the curve ranged between 0.84 and 0.96 for the two ESAS 
items when detecting severe anxiety or depression HADS cases (cutoff = 11). ESAS 
anxiety or depression scores >3 detected quite well the severe depression HADS 
cases (Sensibility = 75-Specificity = 84, Sensibility = 87-Specificity = 90, 
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Anxiety or depression ESAS items score >3 can be applied as a 
useful, easy and not time consuming screening tool for assessing anxiety and 
depression in non-advanced patients with solid or haematological malignancies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-013-2034-x
PMID: 24276952 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


651. Postepy Dermatol Alergol. 2013 Jun;30(3):152-8. doi:
10.5114/pdia.2013.35616.  Epub 2013 Jun 20.

Cost-utility analysis of Ruconest(®) (conestat alfa) compared to Berinert(®) P 
(human C1 esterase inhibitor) in the treatment of acute, life-threatening 
angioedema attacks in patients with hereditary angioedema.

Kawalec P(1), Holko P, Paszulewicz A.

Author information:
(1)Drug Management Department, Institute of Public Health, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, Jagiellonian University, Krakow, Poland. Head: Prof. Andrzej Pilc ; 
Centrum HTA, Krakow, Poland. Head: Dr. Paweł Kawalec.

INTRODUCTION: Administration of human C1 esterase inhibitor (Berinert(®) P) from 
target import is the most widespread treatment strategy for patients with 
hereditary angioedema (HAE). However, a therapeutic health program including 
Ruconest(®) (conestat alfa) could shorten a patient's expectancy for a 
life-saving treatment.
AIM: To evaluate the cost-utility of Ruconest(®) (conestat alfa) financed from 
public funds within the newly introduced therapeutic health program compared 
with Berinert(®) P (human C1 esterase inhibitor) in the treatment of acute 
angioedema attacks in adults with HAE.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The cost-utility analysis from the Polish healthcare 
payer's perspective was performed for 1 year (2012). The costs and health 
outcomes were simulated for three pairs of eligible HAE patient groups (active 
treatment and corresponding placebo). The incremental costs of each intervention 
compared with placebo were listed together (direct or indirect comparisons 
between options were impossible due to limited clinical data available).
RESULTS: The incremental cost-utility ratios (ICURs) for the evaluated 
interventions compared with placebo were as follows: EUR 15,226 per QALY 
(Ruconest(®)) and EUR 27,786 per QALY (Berinert(®) P). The probability of 
cost-utility (ICUR < EUR 24,279 per QALY) assessed for Ruconest(®) administered 
in the case of acute angioedema attack was 61% and 41% for Berinert(®) P.
CONCLUSIONS: The administration of Ruconest(®) in acute life-threatening 
angioedema attacks is economically justified from the Polish healthcare payer's 
perspective, results in lower costs and is characterized by higher cost-utility 
probability compared with Berinert(®) P.

DOI: 10.5114/pdia.2013.35616
PMCID: PMC3834719
PMID: 24278067


652. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 20;8(11):e79740. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079740. 
eCollection 2013.

The pathogen- and incidence-based DALY approach: an appropriate [corrected] 
methodology for estimating the burden of infectious diseases.

Mangen MJ(1), Plass D, Havelaar AH, Gibbons CL, Cassini A, Mühlberger N, van 
Lier A, Haagsma JA, Brooke RJ, Lai T, de Waure C, Kramarz P, Kretzschmar ME; 
BCoDE consortium.

Collaborators: Colzani E, de Wit G, Fèvre E, Franco E, Jahn B, Krämer A, Longhi 
S, Matsi A, McDonald S, Murianni L, Pinheiro P, Ricciardi W, Rüütel K, Siebert 
U.

Author information:
(1)Julius Centre for Health Sciences and Primary Care, University Medical Centre 
Utrecht, Utrecht, The Netherlands.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2013;8(12). 
doi:10.1371/annotation/caf33818-3453-4e30-b307-7526427b09b7.

In 2009, the European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control initiated the 
'Burden of Communicable Diseases in Europe (BCoDE)' project to generate 
evidence-based and comparable burden-of-disease estimates of infectious diseases 
in Europe. The burden-of-disease metric used was the Disability-Adjusted Life 
Year (DALY), composed of years of life lost due to premature death (YLL) and due 
to disability (YLD). To better represent infectious diseases, a pathogen-based 
approach was used linking incident cases to sequelae through outcome trees. 
Health outcomes were included if an evidence-based causal relationship between 
infection and outcome was established. Life expectancy and disability weights 
were taken from the Global Burden of Disease Study and alternative studies. 
Disease progression parameters were based on literature. Country-specific 
incidence was based on surveillance data corrected for underestimation. 
Non-typhoidal Salmonella spp. and Campylobacter spp. were used for illustration. 
Using the incidence- and pathogen-based DALY approach the total burden for 
Salmonella spp. and Campylobacter spp. was estimated at 730 DALYs and at 1,780 
DALYs per year in the Netherlands (average of 2005-2007). Sequelae accounted for 
56% and 82% of the total burden of Salmonella spp. and Campylobacter spp., 
respectively. The incidence- and pathogen-based DALY methodology allows in the 
case of infectious diseases a more comprehensive calculation of the disease 
burden as subsequent sequelae are fully taken into account. Not considering 
subsequent sequelae would strongly underestimate the burden of infectious 
diseases. Estimates can be used to support prioritisation and comparison of 
infectious diseases and other health conditions, both within a country and 
between countries.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079740
PMCID: PMC3835936
PMID: 24278167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


653. Zhongguo Xiu Fu Chong Jian Wai Ke Za Zhi. 2013 Sep;27(9):1025-7.

[Percutaneous retrograde cannulated screw fixation of acute stable scaphoid 
waist fracture by a transtrapezial approach].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang C(1), Xiong G, Liu K, Dai L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hand Surgery, Beijing Jishuitan Hospital, Beijing, 100035, 
P.R.China.

OBJECTIVE: To explore the technique and effectiveness of percutaneous retrograde 
cannulated screw fixation for acute stable scaphoid waist fracture by a 
transtrapezial approach.
METHODS: Between May 2010 and April 2012, 23 patients with acute stable scaphoid 
waist fracture were treated with percutaneous retrograde cannulated screw 
fixation by a transtrapezial approach. There were 18 males and 5 females, aged 
21-54 years with an average of 32 years. All fractures were caused by supporting 
with hands after falling. The locations were the left side in 10 cases and the 
right side in 13 cases. The major symptoms included the wrist swelling, 
tenderness at the anatomic snuffbox, and grip weakness. Two cases were 
accompanied by distal radius fractures. The time between injury and operation 
ranged from 1 to 5 days with an average of 3 days.
RESULTS: All incisions healed by first intention. All the cases were followed up 
4-26 months with an average of 10 months. All fractures healed 6-12 weeks 
postoperatively with an average of 8.2 weeks. The patients resumed normal life 
and work at 4-6 weeks and at 2-4 months after operation, respectively. At last 
follow-up, all the wrists were free from the pain and the tenderness. The 
postoperative grip power ranged from 30 to 51 kg (mean, 37 kg). The active 
flexion-extension range of motion was 140-165 degrees with an average of 153.7 
degrees. All patients were satisfied with the results of treatment.
CONCLUSION: Percutaneous retrograde cannulated screw fixation by a 
transtrapezial approach is a simple, safe, and reliable method to treat acute 
stable scaphoid waist fracture. By this approach, it is easier to place the 
screws into the center of the long axis of scaphoid.

PMID: 24279006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Nov;17(53):1-499, v-vi. doi: 10.3310/hta17530.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of second- and third-generation 
left ventricular assist devices as either bridge to transplant or alternative to 
transplant for adults eligible for heart transplantation: systematic review and 
cost-effectiveness model.

Sutcliffe P(1), Connock M, Pulikottil-Jacob R, Kandala NB, Suri G, Gurung T, 
Grove A, Shyangdan D, Briscoe S, Maheswaran H, Clarke A.

Author information:
(1)Warwick Evidence, Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: Advanced heart failure (HF) is a debilitating condition for which 
heart transplant (HT) offers the best treatment option. However, the supply of 
donor hearts is diminishing and demand greatly exceeds supply. Ventricular 
assist devices (VADs) are surgically implanted pumps used as an alternative to 
transplant (ATT) or as a bridge to transplant (BTT) while a patient awaits a 
donor heart. Surgery and VADs are costly. For the NHS to allocate and deliver 
such services in a cost-effective way the relative costs and benefits of these 
alternative treatments need to be estimated.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate for patients aged ≥ 16 years with advanced HF 
eligible for HT: (1) the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
second- and third-generation VADs used as BTT compared with medical management 
(MM); and (2) the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of second- and 
third-generation VADs used as an ATT in comparison with their use as BTT 
therapy.
DATA SOURCES: Searches for clinical effectiveness studies covered years from 
2003 to March 2012 and included the following data bases: MEDLINE, MEDLINE 
In-Process & Other Non-Indexed Citations, EMBASE, Cochrane Database of 
Systematic Reviews (CDSR), Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects (DARE), 
NHS Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED), HTA databases [NHS Centre for 
Reviews and Dissemination (CRD)], Science Citation Index and Conference 
Proceedings (Web of Science), UK Clinical Research Network (UKCRN) Portfolio 
Database, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health Literature (CINAHL), 
PsycINFO and National Library of Medicine (NLM) Gateway, Cochrane Central 
Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL), Current Controlled Trials and 
ClinicalTrials.gov. Reference lists of relevant articles were checked, and VAD 
manufacturers' websites interrogated. For economic analyses we made use of 
individual patient data (IPD) held in the UK Blood and Transplant Database 
(BTDB).
REVIEW METHODS: Systematic reviews of evidence on clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of second- and third-generation US Food and Drug 
Administration (FDA) and/or Conformité Européenne (CE) approved VADs. 
Publications from the last 5 years with control groups, or case series with 50 
or more patients were included. Outcomes included survival, functional capacity 
(e.g. change in New York Heart Association functional classification), quality 
of life (QoL) and adverse events. Data from the BTDB were obtained. A 
discrete-time, semi-Markov, multistate model was built. Deterministic and 
probabilistic methods with multiple sensitivity analyses varying survival, 
utilities and cost inputs to the model were used. Model outputs were incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), cost/quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
gained and cost/life-year gained (LYG). The discount rate was 3.5% and the time 
horizon varied over 3 years, 10 years and lifetime.
RESULTS: Forty publications reported clinical effectiveness of VADs and one 
study reported cost-effectiveness. We found no high-quality comparative 
empirical studies of VADs as BTT compared with MM or as ATT compared with BTT. 
Approximately 15-25% of the patients receiving a device had died by 12 months. 
Studies reported the following wide ranges for adverse events: 4-27% bleeding 
requiring transfusion; 1.5-40% stroke; 3.3-48% infection; 1-14% device failure; 
3-30% HF; 11-32% reoperation; and 3-53% renal failure. QoL and functional status 
were reported as improved in studies of two devices [HeartMate II (HMII; 
Thoratec Inc., Pleasanton, CA, USA) and HeartWare (HW; HeartWare Inc., 
Framingham, MA, USA)]. At 3 years, 10 years and lifetime, the ICERs for VADs as 
BTT compared with MM were £122,730, £68,088 and £55,173 respectively. These 
values were stable to changes in survival of the MM group. Both QoL and costs 
were reduced by VADs as ATT compared with VADs as BTT giving ICERs in south-west 
quadrant of the cost effectiveness plain (cost saving/QALY sacrificed) of 
£353,467, £31,685 and £20,637 over the 3 years, 10 years and lifetime horizons 
respectively. Probabilistic analyses yielded similar results for both research 
questions.
LIMITATIONS: Conclusions about the clinical effectiveness were limited by the 
lack of randomised controlled trials (RCTs) comparing the effectiveness of 
different VADs for BTT or comparing BTT with any alternative treatment and by 
the overlapping populations in published studies. Although IPD from the BTDB was 
used to estimate the cost-effectiveness of VADs compared with MM for BTT, the 
lack of randomisation of populations limited the interpretation of this 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: At 3 years, 10 years and lifetime the ICERs for VADs as BTT 
compared with MM are higher than generally applied willingness-to-pay thresholds 
in the UK, but at a lifetime time horizon they approximate threshold values used 
in end of life assessments. VADs as ATT have a reduced cost but cause reduced 
QALYs relative to BTT. Future research should direct attention towards two 
areas. First, how any future evaluations of second- or third-generation VADs 
might be conducted. For ethical reasons a RCT offering equal probability of HT 
for each group would not be feasible; future studies should fully assess costs, 
long-term patient survival, QoL, functional ability and adverse events, so that 
these may be incorporated into economic evaluation agreement on outcomes 
measures across future studies. Second, continuation of accurate data collection 
in the UK database to encompass QoL data and comparative assessment of 
performance with other international centres.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17530
PMCID: PMC4781283
PMID: 24280231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. Palliat Med. 2014 Jun;28(6):530-533. doi: 10.1177/0269216313512886.

The Paediatric Palliative Screening Scale: Further validity testing.

Bergstraesser E(1), Paul M(2), Rufibach K(2), Hain RD(3), Held L(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Palliative Care and Oncology, University Children's Hospital 
Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(2)2 Division of Biostatistics, Institute for Social and Preventive Medicine, 
University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.
(3)3 Paediatric Palliative Care, Children's Hospital, Cardiff, UK.

BACKGROUND: Paediatric palliative care is still often introduced late in the 
illness trajectory of children with life-limiting diseases. Translating 
palliative care into practice continues to be a challenge.
AIM: To validate the Paediatric Palliative Screening Scale further by defining 
attributes that predict the need for palliative care in children between 1 and 
18 years.
DESIGN: Proportional-odds logistic regression analysis was performed to 
investigate the relationship between the attributes of the Paediatric Palliative 
Screening Scale and the experts' assessment of case vignettes with various 
combinations of different attribute characteristics. Estimates from regression 
analysis were transformed to empirical weightings of the Paediatric Palliative 
Screening Scale attribute characteristics.
SETTING/PARTICIPANTS: Online questionnaires with case vignettes were sent to 33 
paediatric palliative care experts from Europe, the United States, Canada, 
Australia and New Zealand.
RESULTS: The highest weightings among the five previously defined attributes 
were estimated life expectancy <12 months (40% of maximum score) and preferences 
of the child/parents received (24%). Trajectory of disease and impact on daily 
activities of the child, expected outcome of treatment directed at the disease 
and burden of treatment, and symptom or problem burden were weighted less.
CONCLUSIONS: According to this second step of psychometric testing of the 
Paediatric Palliative Screening Scale, the strongest and most urgent necessity 
indicators for a palliative care approach are life expectancy and child/family 
preferences. These results are somewhat discrepant with results from the 
previous validation of the instrument as well as previous research findings.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216313512886
PMID: 24280277


656. J Vasc Surg. 2013 Dec;58(6):1709-15. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.09.017.

Debate: whether young, good-risk patients should be treated with endovascular 
abdominal aortic aneurysm repair.

Vallabhaneni R(1), Farber MA, Schneider F, Ricco JB.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, NC.

Comment in
    J Vasc Surg. 2013 Dec;58(6):1716.

As endovascular abdominal aortic aneurysm repair has become increasingly 
prominent in our vascular surgery practices, the discussion regarding long-term 
durability continues. The initial randomized trials that enrolled patients 
almost 10 years ago revealed a short-term survival advantage with endovascular 
abdominal aortic aneurysm repair at the expense of a higher reintervention rate 
and loss of that initial survival advantage in the longer term. Continuing and 
healthy debate over the practical importance of these findings has resulted in 
somewhat differing practice patterns on either side of the Atlantic. This debate 
explores the issues surrounding whether younger, good-risk patients with a long 
life expectancy should be treated with endovascular repair.

Copyright © 2013 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2013.09.017
PMID: 24280332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Praxis (Bern 1994). 2013 Nov 27;102(24):1483-8. doi:
10.1024/1661-8157/a001496.

[Marfan syndrome and related connective tissue disorders].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Steindl K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Medizinische Genetik, Universität Zürich, Schlieren.

Marfan syndrome is an autosomal dominantly inherited connective tissue disorder 
with a prevalence of approximately 1:5000 people. Typical manifestations affect 
the cardiovascular system, eyes, skeleton, lungs, skin and dura mater. Most 
patients have a so-called marfanoid habitus with tall stature, long and narrow 
limbs, a long and narrow head shape and other skeletal abnormalities. Of 
particular medical importance are the possible complications such as severe 
scoliosis or pectus excavatum, spontaneous pneumothorax, retinal detachment, or 
an acute glaucoma evoked by lens luxation. However, the most dangerous 
complication is acute dissection of the ascending aorta, which is usually the 
result of a slowly progressive aortic dilatation. With the introduction of 
therapies the average life expectancy of previously just 32 years could be 
raised to above 60 years.

Publisher: Beim Marfan-Syndrom (MFS) handelt es sich um eine autosomal-dominant 
vererbte Erkrankung des Bindegewebes mit einer Prävalenz von ca. 1:5000 
Personen. Typische Manifestationen betreffen das Herz-Kreislauf-System, Auge, 
Skelett sowie Lunge, Haut und Dura mater. Die meisten Patienten weisen einen 
sogenannten marfanoiden Habitus mit Hochwuchs, langen und schmalen Gliedmassen, 
einer langen und schmalen Kopfform und anderen skelettalen Auffälligkeiten auf. 
Von medizinischer Bedeutung sind insbesondere die möglichen Komplikationen wie 
schwerwiegende Skoliose oder Trichterbrust, Spontanpneumothorax, 
Netzhautablösung oder ein durch Linsenluxation hervorgerufenes akutes Glaukom. 
Die gefährlichste Komplikation ist jedoch die akute Dissektion der aufsteigenden 
Aorta, die in der Regel die Folge einer langsam fortschreitenden 
Aortendilatation darstellt. Mit Einführung moderner Therapieformen konnte die 
durchschnittliche Lebenserwartung von nur 32 auf über 60 Jahre gehoben werden.

Publisher: Le syndrome de Marfan est une maladie héréditaire du tissu conjonctif 
qui se transmet sur le mode autosomique dominant, avec une prévalence d'environ 
1:5000 personnes. Les manifestations typiques concernent le système 
cardiovasculaire, les yeux, le squelette, les poumons, la peau et la dure-mère. 
La plupart des patients ont un aspect appelé habitus marfanoïde, avec une grande 
taille, des membres longs et fins, une forme longue et étroite de la tête et 
d'autres anomalies du squelette. Les complications médicales importantes à 
prendre en compte sont la scoliose sévère ou le pectus excavatum, le 
pneumothorax spontané, le décollement de rétine, et le glaucome aigu engendré 
par la luxation du cristallin. Cependant, la complication la plus dangereuse est 
la dissection aiguë de l'aorte ascendante, qui est en général la conséquence 
d'une dilatation de l'aorte de progression lente. Avec l'introduction de 
traitements adaptés, l'espérance de vie moyenne est passée de 32 ans à plus de 
60 ans.

DOI: 10.1024/1661-8157/a001496
PMID: 24280605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2014 Aug;148(2):509-14. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.10.023. Epub 2013 Nov 23.

Systematic review of the cost-effectiveness of transcatheter aortic valve 
implantation.

Indraratna P(1), Ang SC(1), Gada H(2), Yan TD(3), Manganas C(4), Bannon P(3), 
Cao C(5).

Author information:
(1)Systematic Review Unit, Collaborative Research (CORE) Group, Macquarie 
University, Sydney, Australia; Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, St George 
Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
(2)Systematic Review Unit, Collaborative Research (CORE) Group, Macquarie 
University, Sydney, Australia.
(3)Systematic Review Unit, Collaborative Research (CORE) Group, Macquarie 
University, Sydney, Australia; Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Royal 
Prince Alfred Hospital, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.
(4)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, St George Hospital, Sydney, Australia.
(5)Systematic Review Unit, Collaborative Research (CORE) Group, Macquarie 
University, Sydney, Australia; Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, St George 
Hospital, Sydney, Australia. Electronic address: drchriscao@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: Transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) has emerged as an 
alternative treatment to aortic valve replacement (AVR) for selected patients 
with severe aortic stenosis. The present systematic review was conducted to 
analyze the cost-effectiveness of this novel technique within reimbursed 
healthcare systems.
METHODS: Two reviewers used 7 electronic databases from January 2000 to November 
2012 to identify relevant cost-effectiveness studies of TAVI versus AVR or 
medical therapy. The primary endpoints were the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) and the probability of cost-effectiveness. The eligible studies for 
the present systematic review included those in which the cost-effectiveness 
data were measured or projected for TAVI and either medical therapy or AVR. All 
forms of TAVI were included, and all retrieved publications were limited to the 
English language.
RESULTS: Eight studies were included for quantitative assessment. The ICER for 
TAVI compared with medical therapy for surgically inoperable patients ranged 
from US$26,302 to US$61,889 per quality-adjusted life year gained. The 
probability of TAVI being cost-effective compared with medical therapy ranged 
from 0.03 to 1.00. The ICER values for TAVI compared with AVR for high-risk 
surgical candidates ranged from US$32,000 to US$975,697 per quality-adjusted 
life year gained. The probability of TAVI being cost-effective in this cohort 
ranged from 0.116 to 0.709.
CONCLUSIONS: Depending on the ICER threshold selected, TAVI is potentially 
justified on both medical and economic grounds compared with medical therapy for 
patients deemed to be surgically inoperable. However, in the high-risk surgical 
patient cohort, the evidence is currently insufficient to economically justify 
the use of TAVI in preference to AVR.

Copyright © 2014 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.10.023
PMID: 24280719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Minerva Anestesiol. 2014 Sep;80(9):1030-45. Epub 2013 Nov 26.

Neuraxial anesthesia in patients with intracranial hypertension or cerebrospinal 
fluid shunting systems: what should the anesthetist know?

Guerci P(1), Vial F, Mcnelis U, Losser MR, Raft J, Klein O, Iohom G, Audibert G, 
Bouaziz H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Maternity Hospital, University Hospital of 
Nancy, Nancy, France - h.bouaziz@chu-nancy.fr.

The management of patients with central nervous system disorders such as brain 
tumours, hydrocephalus, intracranial hypertension, or subarachnoid hemorrhage 
has improved in recent years resulting in increased life expectancy. 
Consequently, the prevalence of patients with increased intracranial pressure or 
cerebrospinal fluid shunting devices presenting for non-neurological procedures 
has increased. These patients commonly receive a general anesthetic, as the 
safety profile of neuraxial anesthesia in this clinical setting remains 
uncertain. This article reviews literature on neuraxial anesthesia in patients 
with intracranial hypertension or cerebrospinal fluid shunting systems. It 
describes current knowledge, exposes and weighs the real benefits and risks of 
this technique in this setting. It provides several scenarios and anesthetic 
options to help the practitioner with choosing a tailored approach in this 
specific population.

PMID: 24280821 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2015 Mar;22(3):344-53. doi: 10.1177/2047487313514019.
Epub  2013 Nov 26.

Cost-effectiveness of apixaban compared to warfarin in the management of atrial 
fibrillation in Australia.

Ademi Z(1), Pasupathi K(2), Liew D(2).

Author information:
(1)Melbourne EpiCentre, Department of Medicine (Royal Melbourne Hospital), 
University of Melbourne, Australia zademi@unimelb.edu.au.
(2)Melbourne EpiCentre, Department of Medicine (Royal Melbourne Hospital), 
University of Melbourne, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the cost-effectiveness of apixaban versus warfarin in 
patients with atrial fibrillation (AF) with a moderate to severe risk of stroke, 
from an Australian government-perspective.
METHODS: A decision-analytic Markov model was constructed to assess the 
cost-effectiveness of apixaban versus warfarin, based on data from the Apixaban 
for Reduction in Stroke and Other Thromboembolic Events in AF (ARISTOTLE) trial. 
The model comprised five health states: 'Alive, no major bleeding or stroke', 
'Alive, no major bleeding, post stroke/systemic embolism', 'Alive, post major 
bleeding, no stroke', 'Alive, post-major bleeding and stroke' and 'Dead'. 
Disease cost data was derived from the North-East Melbourne Stroke Incidence 
Study and the Australian Refined Diagnose Related Groups. Costs of medications 
were based on data from the Pharmaceutical Benefit Scheme. Utility data was 
derived from published sources, and an annual discount rate of 5% was applied to 
costs and benefits. The main outcome of interest was incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios per life year gained (LYG) and quality adjusted life 
years (QALYs) gained.
RESULTS: Over 20 years, in the sample of 1000 subjects the model predicted that 
compared to warfarin, apixaban led to a (discounted) of 0.33 LYG and 0.31 QALYs 
gained, at a net cost of $4,308 per-person. These equated to ICERs of $AUD12, 
914 per LYG and $AUD13, 679 per QALY gained. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
demonstrated that apixaban was cost-effective at 99.0% probability using 
willingness to pay thresholds of $AUD45 000 per LYG and QALY.
CONCLUSION: Compared to warfarin, apixaban is likely to represent a 
cost-effective means of preventing stroke-related morbidity and mortality in 
patients with AF.

© The European Society of Cardiology 2013 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/2047487313514019
PMID: 24281250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]661. Demography. 2014 Apr;51(2):413-35. doi: 10.1007/s13524-013-0261-x.

Cumulative childhood adversity, educational attainment, and active life 
expectancy among U.S. adults.

Montez JK(1), Hayward MD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Case Western Reserve University, 223 Mather Memorial 
Building, Cleveland, OH, 44106, USA, jennifer.montez@case.edu.

Studies of the early-life origins of adult physical functioning and mortality 
have found that childhood health and socioeconomic context are important 
predictors, often irrespective of adult experiences. However, these studies have 
generally assessed functioning and mortality as distinct processes and used 
cross-sectional prevalence estimates that neglect the interplay of disability 
incidence, recovery, and mortality. Here, we examine whether early-life 
disadvantages both shorten lives and increase the number and fraction of years 
lived with functional impairment. We also examine the degree to which 
educational attainment mediates and moderates the health consequences of 
early-life disadvantages. Using the 1998-2008 Health and Retirement Study, we 
examine these questions for non-Hispanic whites and blacks aged 50-100 years 
using multistate life tables. Within levels of educational attainment, adults 
from disadvantaged childhoods lived fewer total and active years, and spent a 
greater portion of life impaired compared with adults from advantaged 
childhoods. Higher levels of education did not ameliorate the health 
consequences of disadvantaged childhoods. However, because education had a 
larger impact on health than did childhood socioeconomic context, adults from 
disadvantaged childhoods who achieved high education levels often had total and 
active life expectancies that were similar to or better than those of adults 
from advantaged childhoods who achieved low education levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-013-0261-x
PMCID: PMC4465758
PMID: 24281740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Endocrine. 2014 Sep;47(1):206-12. doi: 10.1007/s12020-013-0115-8. Epub 2013
Nov  27.

Cardiovascular events in acromegaly: distinct role of Agatston and Framingham 
score in the 5-year prediction.

Ragonese M(1), Alibrandi A, Di Bella G, Salamone I, Puglisi S, Cotta OR, Torre 
ML, Ferrau F, Ruggeri RM, Trimarchi F, Cannavo S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, University of Messina, 
Messina, Italy, ragonese_m@yahoo.it.

Comment in
    Endocrine. 2014 Sep;47(1):1-2.

Prediction of ischemic cardiovascular events (ICE) in acromegalic patients 
stratified accordingly with Framingham (FS) and Agatston score (AS). 32 patients 
with active (group A (0)) and 20 with controlled (group B (0)) acromegaly have 
been enrolled. During the 5-year follow-up, 19 out of 32 patients in group A (0) 
reached disease control. At entry, FS and AS, by an eight-slice MDCT scanner, 
were calculated in all patients. ICE were diagnosed by autopsy, if lethal, and 
by electrocardiography and/or echocardiography, if non-lethal. Overall, 9.6 % of 
patients died for lethal ICE. AS >400, but not high FS at entry, was associated 
with increased risk of lethal ICE. Lethal ICE had occurred in two patients of 
group A (0) and three of group B (0) (p NS), while a non-lethal ICE had occurred 
in two cases of the former and in other two of the latter group (p NS). Either 
FS or AS was correlated with the risk for ICE overall (p < 0.02), but only AS 
correlated with that of lethal ICE (p < 0.0003). Survival analysis demonstrated 
reduced life expectancy in patients with high FS (p < 0.02). In acromegalics, AS 
>400 is associated with increased risk of lethal ICE, while high FS is 
associated with reduced life expectancy, regardless of disease control.

DOI: 10.1007/s12020-013-0115-8
PMID: 24282038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Nov 26;(11):CD005599. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD005599.pub4.

Topical cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator gene replacement for 
cystic fibrosis-related lung disease.

Lee TW(1), Southern KW.

Author information:
(1)Leeds Regional Paediatric Cystic Fibrosis Centre, A Floor, Clarendon Wing, 
Leeds General Infirmary, Great George Street, Leeds, West Yorkshire, UK, LS1 
3EX.

Update in
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2016;(6):CD005599.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2012;10:CD005599.

BACKGROUND: Cystic fibrosis is caused by a defective gene encoding a protein 
called the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR), and is 
characterised by chronic lung infection resulting in inflammation and 
progressive lung damage that results in a reduced life expectancy.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether topical CFTR gene replacement therapy to the 
lungs in people with cystic fibrosis is associated with improvements in clinical 
outcomes, and to assess any adverse effects.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the Cochrane Cystic Fibrosis and Genetic Disorders 
Group Trials Register comprising references identified from comprehensive 
electronic database searches, handsearching relevant journals and abstract books 
of conference proceedings.Date of most recent search: 22 August 2013.An 
additional search of the National Institutes for Health (NIH) Genetic 
Modification Clinical Research Information System (GeMCRIS) was also performed 
for the years 1992 to 2013.Date of most recent search: 04 September 2013.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials comparing topical CFTR gene 
delivery to the lung, using either viral or non-viral delivery systems, with 
placebo or an alternative delivery system in people with confirmed cystic 
fibrosis.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: The authors independently extracted data and 
assessed study quality. Authors of included studies were contacted and asked for 
any available additional data. Meta-analysis was limited due to differing study 
designs.
MAIN RESULTS: Three randomised controlled trials met the inclusion criteria for 
this review, involving a total of 155 participants. Fourteen studies were 
excluded. The included studies differed in terms of CFTR gene replacement agent 
and study design, which limited the meta-analysis.Although the first Moss study 
reported a significant improvement in respiratory function (forced expiratory 
volume at one second) 30 days after participants had received their first dose 
of gene therapy agent, this finding was not confirmed in their larger second 
study or in our meta-analysis.In participants who received the CFTR gene 
transfer agents in the Alton study, "influenza-like" symptoms were found (risk 
ratio 7.00 (95% confidence interval 1.10 to 44.61)). There were no other 
significant increases in adverse events in any of the studies.Alton measured ion 
transport in the lower airways and demonstrated significant changes toward 
normal values in the participants who received gene transfer agents (P < 
0.0001), mean difference 6.86 (95% confidence interval 3.77 to 9.95). In these 
participants there was also evidence of increased salt transport in cells 
obtained by brushing the lower airway. These outcomes, whilst important, are not 
of direct clinical relevance.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is currently no evidence to support the use of CFTR 
gene transfer agents as a treatment for lung disease in people with cystic 
fibrosis. Future studies need to investigate clinically important outcome 
measures.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD005599.pub4
PMID: 24282073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Jan 7;55(1):102-9. doi:
10.1167/iovs.13-13006.

Examining visual field loss in patients in glaucoma clinics during their 
predicted remaining lifetime.

Saunders LJ(1), Russell RA, Kirwan JF, McNaught AI, Crabb DP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Optometry and Vision Science, City University London, United 
Kingdom.

Comment in
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Jul;55(7):4470-4.
    Invest Ophthalmol Vis Sci. 2014 Jul;55(7):4475.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the proportion of patients in glaucoma clinics progressing 
at rates that would result in visual disability within their expected lifetime.
METHODS: This retrospective study used visual field (VF) series of at least 3 
years' duration from 3790 UK patients in glaucoma clinics calculating rates of 
loss for each eye using linear regression of mean deviation (MD) over time. 
Residual life expectancies derived from the UK Office of National Statistics 
actuarial tables for each patient were combined with these rates to estimate 
predicted MDs at end of expected lifetime. The proportion of patients projected 
to progress to visual impairment (MD: -14 dB or worse) or statutory blindness 
(MD: -22 dB or worse) in both eyes before end of expected lifetime was 
calculated.
RESULTS: Only 3.0% (95% confidence interval [CI] 2.7%-3.4%) of patient eyes 
progressed at faster than -1.5 dB/year (n = 7149 eyes). Of those patients with 
both eyes followed, 5.2% (CI 4.5%-6.0%) were predicted to progress to statutory 
blindness, with a further 10.4% (CI 9.4%-11.4%) reaching visual impairment in 
their lifetime. More than 90% (CI 85.7%-94.3%) of patients predicted to progress 
to statutory blindness, had an MD worse than -6 dB in at least one eye at 
presentation.
CONCLUSIONS: This modeling exercise indicates that most patients in glaucoma 
clinics are not at high risk of progressing to statutory blindness. The 
likelihood of patients suffering impairment in their lifetimes is linked to VF 
loss at presentation, which illuminates the importance of reliably detecting 
significant VF defects in primary care.

DOI: 10.1167/iovs.13-13006
PMID: 24282228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Can Urol Assoc J. 2013 Nov-Dec;7(11-12):E761-3. doi: 10.5489/cuaj.503.

Complications following breast cancer therapy in the adult spina bifida 
population: A case report.

Hoy NY(1), Metcalfe P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Urology, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB.

Survival to adulthood in spina bifida has greatly increased with the advent of 
modern therapies. With this prolonging of life expectancy, patients are exposed 
to the risk of adult onset malignancies and the complications of subsequent 
treatment. We present the case of a 66-year-old woman born with a terminal 
lipomyelomeningocele, presenting with new fecal incontinence and a desire to 
undivert her ileal conduit. The deterioration was attributed to chemotherapy for 
breast cancer. We highlight the urologic challenges of breast cancer management 
in the neurogenic bowel population, as well as the utility of an adult spina 
bifida clinic. To the best of our knowledge, this is the first case report of a 
spina bifida patient presenting with fecal and urinary complications from breast 
cancer chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.5489/cuaj.503
PMCID: PMC3840510
PMID: 24282472


666. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 25;8(11):e79797. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079797. 
eCollection 2013.

Cost-effectiveness of one year dementia follow-up care by memory clinics or 
general practitioners: economic evaluation of a randomised controlled trial.

Meeuwsen E(1), Melis R, van der Aa G, Golüke-Willemse G, de Leest B, van Raak F, 
Schölzel-Dorenbos C, Verheijen D, Verhey F, Visser M, Wolfs C, Adang E, Olde 
Rikkert M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics/Radboud Alzheimer Centre, Radboud University, 
Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of post-diagnosis dementia 
treatment and coordination of care by memory clinics compared to general 
practitioners' care.
METHODS: A multicentre randomised trial with 175 community dwelling patients 
newly diagnosed with mild to moderate dementia, and their informal caregivers, 
with twelve months' follow-up. Cost-effectiveness was evaluated from a societal 
point of view and presented as incremental cost per quality adjusted life year. 
To establish cost-effectiveness, a cost-utility analysis was conducted using 
utilities based on the EQ-5D. Uncertainty surrounding the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (difference in costs divided by difference in effects) 
was calculated by bootstrapping from the original data.
RESULTS: Compared to general practitioners' care, treatment by the memory 
clinics was on average €1024 (95% CI: -€7723 to €5674) cheaper, and showed a 
non-significant decrease of 0.025 (95% CI: -0.114 to 0.064) quality adjusted 
life years. The incremental cost-effectiveness point estimate from the bootstrap 
simulation was € 41 442 per QALY lost if one would use memory clinic care 
instead of general practitioner care.
CONCLUSION: No evidence was found that memory clinics were more cost-effective 
compared to general practitioners with regard to post-diagnosis treatment and 
coordination of care of patients with dementia in the first year after 
diagnosis.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00554047.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0079797
PMCID: PMC3839971
PMID: 24282511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


667. BMC Med. 2013 Nov 27;11:251. doi: 10.1186/1741-7015-11-251.

Do people with HIV infection have a normal life expectancy in the era of 
combination antiretroviral therapy?

Sabin CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Infection and Population Health, UCL, Royal Free 
Campus, Rowland Hill Street, London NW3 2PF, UK. c.sabin@ucl.ac.uk.

There is evidence that the life expectancy (LE) of individuals infected with the 
human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) has increased since the introduction of 
combination antiretroviral therapy (cART). However, mortality rates in recent 
years in HIV-positive individuals appear to have remained higher than would be 
expected based on rates seen in the general population. A low CD4 count, whether 
due to late HIV diagnosis, late initiation of cART, or incomplete adherence to 
cART, remains the dominant predictor of LE, and thus the individual's disease 
stage at initiation of cART (or thereafter) certainly contributes to these 
higher mortality rates. However, individuals with HIV also tend to exhibit 
lifestyles and behaviors that place them at increased risk of mortality, 
particularly from non-AIDS causes. Thus, although mortality rates among the HIV 
population may indeed remain slightly higher than those seen in the general 
population, they may be no higher than those seen in a more appropriately 
matched control group. Thus, further improvements in LE may now only be possible 
if some of the other underlying issues (for example, modification of lifestyle 
or behavioral factors) are tackled.

DOI: 10.1186/1741-7015-11-251
PMCID: PMC4220799
