at MESA Enrollment' and the 'Current Guidelines' strategies, but it provides 
increased effectiveness, which leads to positive net monetary benefits over 
either strategy.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2013.869500
PMID: 24329735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Eur J Haematol. 2014 Mar;92(3):249-55. doi: 10.1111/ejh.12232. Epub 2013 Dec
12.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of preoperative transfusion in patients with sickle 
cell disease using evidence from the TAPS trial.

Spackman E(1), Sculpher M, Howard J, Malfroy M, Llewelyn C, Choo L, Hodge R, 
Johnson T, Rees DC, Fijnvandraat K, Kirby-Allen M, Davies S, Williamson L.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.

The study's objective was to assess the cost-effectiveness of preoperative 
transfusion compared with no preoperative transfusion in patients with sickle 
cell disease undergoing low- or medium-risk surgery. Seventy patients with 
sickle cell disease (HbSS/Sß(0) thal genotypes) undergoing elective surgery 
participated in a multicentre randomised trial, Transfusion Alternatives 
Preoperatively in Sickle Cell Disease (TAPS). Here, a cost-effectiveness 
analysis based on evidence from that trial is presented. A decision-analytic 
model is used to incorporate long-term consequences of transfusions and acute 
chest syndrome. Costs and health benefits, expressed as quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs), are reported from the 'within-trial' analysis and for the 
decision-analytic model. The probability of cost-effectiveness for each form of 
management is calculated taking into account the small sample size and other 
sources of uncertainty. In the range of scenarios considered in the analysis, 
preoperative transfusion was more effective, with the mean improvement in QALYs 
ranging from 0.018 to 0.206 per patient, and also less costly in all but one 
scenario, with the mean cost difference ranging from -£813 to £26. All scenarios 
suggested preoperative transfusion had a probability of cost-effectiveness >0.79 
at a cost-effectiveness threshold of £20 000 per QALY.

© 2013 The Authors. European Journal of Haematology Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejh.12232
PMCID: PMC4232881
PMID: 24329965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Addiction. 2014 Feb;109(2):314-22. doi: 10.1111/add.12404. Epub 2013 Dec 13.

Cost-effectiveness of extended cessation treatment for older smokers.

Barnett PG(1), Wong W, Jeffers A, Munoz R, Humfleet G, Hall S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, USA; Veterans Affairs Health Economics Resource Center, Stanford 
University, Palo Alto, CA, USA.

AIMS: We examined the cost-effectiveness of extended smoking cessation treatment 
in older smokers.
DESIGN: Participants who completed a 12-week smoking cessation program were 
factorial randomized to extended cognitive behavioral treatment and extended 
nicotine replacement therapy.
SETTING: A free-standing smoking cessation clinic.
PARTICIPANTS: A total of 402 smokers aged 50 years and older were recruited from 
the community.
MEASUREMENTS: The trial measured biochemically verified abstinence from 
cigarettes after 2 years and the quantity of smoking cessation services 
utilized. Trial findings were combined with literature on changes in smoking 
status and the age- and gender-adjusted effect of smoking on health-care cost, 
mortality and quality of life over the long term in a Markov model of 
cost-effectiveness over a lifetime horizon.
FINDINGS: The addition of extended cognitive behavioral therapy added $83 in 
smoking cessation services cost [P = 0.012, confidence interval (CI) = $22-212]. 
At the end of follow-up, cigarette abstinence rates were 50.0% with extended 
cognitive behavioral therapy and 37.2% without this therapy (P < 0.05, odds 
ratio 1.69, CI 1.18-2.54). The model-based incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
was $6324 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). Probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis found that the additional $947 in lifetime cost of the intervention had 
a 95% confidence interval of -$331 to 2081; the 0.15 additional QALYs had a 
confidence interval of 0.035-0.280, and that the intervention was cost-effective 
against a $50 000/QALY acceptance criterion in 99.6% of the replicates. Extended 
nicotine replacement therapy was not cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: Adding extended cognitive behavior therapy to standard cessation 
treatment was cost-effective. Further intensification of treatment may be 
warranted.

© 2013 Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/add.12404
PMCID: PMC4020783
PMID: 24329972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Acta Physiol (Oxf). 2014 Feb;210(2):277-87. doi: 10.1111/apha.12189. Epub
2013  Dec 13.

A mechanistic look at the effects of adversity early in life on cardiovascular 
disease risk during adulthood.

Loria AS(1), Ho DH, Pollock JS.

Author information:
(1)Section of Experimental Medicine, Department of Medicine, Georgia Regents 
University, Augusta, GA, USA.

Early origins of adult disease may be defined as adversity or challenges during 
early life that alter physiological responses and prime the organism to chronic 
disease in adult life. Adverse childhood experiences or early life stress (ELS) 
may be considered a silent independent risk factor capable of predicting future 
cardiovascular disease risk. Maternal separation (MatSep) provides a suitable 
model to elucidate the underlying molecular mechanisms by which ELS increases 
the risk to develop cardiovascular disease in adulthood. The aim of this review 
is to describe the links between behavioural stress early in life and chronic 
cardiovascular disease risk in adulthood. We will discuss the following: (i) 
adult cardiovascular outcomes in humans subjected to ELS, (ii) MatSep as an 
animal model of ELS as well as the limitations and advantages of this model in 
rodents and (iii) possible ELS-induced mechanisms that predispose individuals to 
greater cardiovascular risk. Overall, exposure to a behavioural stressor early 
in life sensitizes the response to a second stressor later in life, thus 
unmasking an exaggerated cardiovascular dysfunction that may influence quality 
of life and life expectancy in adulthood.

© 2013 Scandinavian Physiological Society. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apha.12189
PMCID: PMC4105322
PMID: 24330084 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest There is no conflict of 
interest to report.


795. BMC Public Health. 2013 Dec 11;13:1164. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-1164.

Design of a quasi-experiment on the effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
using the child-interview intervention during the investigation following a 
report of child abuse and/or neglect.

Snoeren F(1), Hoefnagels C, Lamers-Winkelman F, Baeten P, Evers SM.

Author information:
(1)Trimbos Institute, Netherlands Institute of Mental Health and Addiction, P,O, 
Box 725, 3500 AS, Utrecht, The Netherlands. funger@trimbos.nl.

BACKGROUND: In the Netherlands, suspected cases of child maltreatment can be 
reported to an advice and reporting center on child abuse and neglect (Advies- 
en Meldpunt Kindermishandeling or AMK). AMKs investigate these reports, screen 
for problems in the family and its surroundings and refer to child welfare. Over 
the last decades the focus of AMK investigations has changed from an adult-only 
approach to a more child-oriented approach using a Child-Interview intervention. 
The effects and cost-effectiveness of AMK involvement in the Netherlands have 
never been studied. The primary aim of this study is therefore to examine the 
effect of the participation of maltreated children aged 6-18 years in the 
Child-Interview intervention on their mental health and quality of life. As a 
second aim, this study will examine the balance between additional costs and 
effects of the Child-Interview intervention in comparison with AMK investigation 
without the Child-Interview intervention (adult-only intervention).
DESIGN/METHODS: A quasi-experiment will be performed consisting of two 
post-intervention measurements of two nonequivalent groups: an intervention 
group, in which the Child-Interview intervention has been used during the AMK 
investigation, and a control group, in which the intervention has not been used 
(adult-only intervention). Participants from an ongoing prospective study on the 
mental health and quality of life of maltreated children after a report to an 
AMK, will be contacted to complete a questionnaire twice. Multivariate 
regression analyses will be used to determine effectiveness of the 
Child-Interview intervention. The economic evaluation will involve a 
cost-effectiveness analysis and a cost-utility analysis.
RESULTS/DISCUSSION: This will be the first study to examine the effect of AMK 
involvement in the Netherlands. Using the Child-Interview intervention during 
AMK investigation may prevent or reduce negative outcomes of child maltreatment, 
which may result in a lower consumption of healthcare and other services. In 
addition, the importance of economic evaluations is increasingly recognized, and 
economic evaluations about child maltreatment are scarce. Limitations include 
the risk of potential recall bias and selection bias.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: NTR3728, funded by ZonMw, project 15700.2012.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-1164
PMCID: PMC3871026
PMID: 24330399 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. BMC Public Health. 2013 Dec 11;13:1167. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-1167.

Burden of micronutrient deficiencies by socio-economic strata in children aged 6 
months to 5 years in the Philippines.

Wieser S(1), Plessow R, Eichler K, Malek O, Capanzana MV, Agdeppa I, Bruegger U.

Author information:
(1)Winterthur Institute of Health Economics, Zurich University of Applied 
Sciences, Gertrudstrasse 15, CH-8401 Winterthur, Switzerland. 
simon.wieser@zhaw.ch.

BACKGROUND: Micronutrient deficiencies (MNDs) are a chronic lack of vitamins and 
minerals and constitute a huge public health problem. MNDs have severe health 
consequences and are particularly harmful during early childhood due to their 
impact on the physical and cognitive development. We estimate the costs of 
illness due to iron deficiency (IDA), vitamin A deficiency (VAD) and zinc 
deficiency (ZnD) in 2 age groups (6-23 and 24-59 months) of Filipino children by 
socio-economic strata in 2008.
METHODS: We build a health economic model simulating the consequences of MNDs in 
childhood over the entire lifetime. The model is based on a health survey and a 
nutrition survey carried out in 2008. The sample populations are first 
structured into 10 socio-economic strata (SES) and 2 age groups. Health 
consequences of MNDs are modelled based on information extracted from 
literature. Direct medical costs, production losses and intangible costs are 
computed and long term costs are discounted to present value.
RESULTS: Total lifetime costs of IDA, VAD and ZnD amounted to direct medical 
costs of 30 million dollars, production losses of 618 million dollars and 
intangible costs of 122,138 disability adjusted life years (DALYs). These costs 
can be interpreted as the lifetime costs of a 1-year cohort affected by MNDs 
between the age of 6-59 months. Direct medical costs are dominated by costs due 
to ZnD (89% of total), production losses by losses in future lifetime (90% of 
total) and intangible costs by premature death (47% of total DALY losses) and 
losses in future lifetime (43%). Costs of MNDs differ considerably between SES 
as costs in the poorest third of the households are 5 times higher than in the 
wealthiest third.
CONCLUSIONS: MNDs lead to substantial costs in 6-59-month-old children in the 
Philippines. Costs are highly concentrated in the lower SES and in children 6-23 
months old. These results may have important implications for the design, 
evaluation and choice of the most effective and cost-effective policies aimed at 
the reduction of MNDs.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-1167
PMCID: PMC3867423
PMID: 24330481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. Acta Ophthalmol. 2014 Sep;92(6):513-23. doi: 10.1111/aos.12328. Epub 2013
Dec  16.

The long term effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of initiating treatment for 
ocular hypertension.

van Gestel A(1), Schouten JS, Beckers HJ, Severens JL, Hendrikse F, Webers CA.

Author information:
(1)University Eye Clinic Maastricht, University Medical Center, Maastricht, the 
Netherlands.

PURPOSE: To investigate the long-term health and economic consequences of direct 
treatment initiation in ocular hypertension patients.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis with a societal perspective and a 
lifelong horizon was performed. The primary outcomes were the incremental 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and costs of direct pressure-lowering 
treatment for ocular hypertension, compared to a strategy where treatment is 
postponed until conversion to glaucoma has been observed. We used a decision 
analytic model based on individual patient simulation to forecast disease 
progression and treatment decisions in both strategies in a representative 
heterogeneous patient population and in 18 patient subgroups stratified by 
initial intraocular pressure and additional risk factors for conversion.
RESULTS: The incremental discounted health gain of direct treatment was 0.27 
QALYs, whereas the incremental discounted costs were -€ 649 during an average 
lifetime of 26 years. In the simulations of patient subgroups, the model 
outcomes moved towards higher health gains and lower incremental costs with 
increasing risk of conversion in the patient population. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of direct treatment ranged from € 15,425 per QALY 
gained in the lowest-risk subgroup to dominance in the highest-risk subgroup. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that uncertainty surrounding the 
model input parameters did not affect the conclusions.
CONCLUSION: Direct, early, pressure-lowering treatment is a dominant 
cost-effective treatment strategy over a strategy to start the same treatment 
approach later, after glaucoma has occurred for patients with ocular 
hypertension. Its implementation and consequences should be discussed with 
ophthalmologists and individual patients.

© 2013 Acta Ophthalmologica Scandinavica Foundation. Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/aos.12328
PMID: 24330516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. AIDS Res Ther. 2013 Dec 13;10(1):32. doi: 10.1186/1742-6405-10-32.

Metabolic syndrome in HIV-infected individuals: underlying mechanisms and 
epidemiological aspects.

Paula AA, Falcão MC, Pacheco AG(1).

Author information:
(1)Programa de Computação Científica, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brasil. apacheco@fiocruz.br.

The success of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) has determined a 
dramatic decline in AIDS- and immunodeficiency-related causes of death in the 
HIV-infected population. As life-expectancy increases, such individuals have 
become gradually exposed not only to the effects of aging itself, but also to 
the influence of environmental risk factors, which are known to act in the 
general population. These features can lead to obesity, diabetes mellitus and 
ultimately cardiovascular diseases (CVD). Metabolic complications and abnormal 
fat distribution were frequently observed after a few years of antiretroviral 
therapy and, as the array of antiretroviral drugs became broader, long term 
metabolic alterations are becoming far more common worldwide. Nevertheless, the 
risk of not being on HAART is overwhelmingly greater than the metabolic adverse 
events in terms of morbidity and mortality events. HIV/HAART-induced metabolic 
unbalances overlap in some extent the components of Metabolic Syndrome (MetS) 
and its high rates in the HIV population place infected individuals in an 
elevated CVD risk category. MetS can explain at least in part the emergence of 
CVD as the major morbidity and mortality conditions in the HIV population. In 
this review we convey information on the underlying aspects of MetS during HIV 
infection, highlighting some physiopathological and epidemiological features of 
this comorbidity along with the role played by HIV itself and the synergy action 
of some antiretroviral drugs. Considerations on MetS management in the HIV 
population are also depicted.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-6405-10-32
PMCID: PMC3874610
PMID: 24330597


799. Environ Entomol. 2013 Oct;42(5):1079-84. doi: 10.1603/EN13070.

Life history comparison of two green lacewing species Chrysoperla johnsoni and 
Chrysoperla carnea (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae).

Amarasekare KG(1), Shearer PW.

Author information:
(1)Oregon State University, Mid-Columbia Agricultural Research and Extension 
Center, 3005 Experiment Station Dr., Hood River, OR 97031, USA.

We investigated the life histories of two green lacewing species, Chrysoperla 
johnsoni Henry, Wells, and Pupedis from western North America, and Chrysoperla 
carnea (Stephens) (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae) from western Europe in the 
laboratory. There were both similarities and differences in their life history 
characteristics. C. johnsoni exhibited a significantly longer developmental time 
for egg, first instar, and pupal stage than C. carnea. C. carnea exhibited a 
significantly shorter egg to adult developmental time than C. johnsoni. Except 
for the pupal stage, the survival of all other life history stages was not 
species-specific. All C. carnea pupae were able to develop into adults, whereas 
only 92% of adult eclosion was observed from C. johnsoni pupae. There was no 
difference in egg to adult survival between the two species. Adult longevity was 
not species- or gender-specific. Sex ratio of emerged adults was ≈50% in both 
species. C. johnsoni had a longer preoviposition period than C. carnea, while 
the oviposition period was similar for both species. C. carnea had higher 
lifetime fecundity and fertility than C. johnsoni, as measured by total number 
of eggs laid and production of fertile eggs, respectively. Egg viability did not 
differ between the two species. Intrinsic rates of increase (rm) for C. carnea 
and C. johnsoni were 0.161 and 0.132, respectively. All lacewings used in this 
experiment were laboratory reared under environmental conditions similar to 
field as possible. This is the first available information on the life history 
parameters of C. johnsoni.

DOI: 10.1603/EN13070
PMID: 24331618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Soc Sci Med. 2013 Dec;98:149-53. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.09.016. Epub
2013  Oct 1.

An assessment of economic measures used in menorrhagia: a systematic review.

Sanghera S(1), Frew E(2), Kai J(3), Gupta J(4), Elizabeth Roberts T(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, School of Health & Population Sciences, Public Health 
Building, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK. 
Electronic address: sxs574@bham.ac.uk.
(2)Health Economics Unit, School of Health & Population Sciences, Public Health 
Building, University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK.
(3)University of Nottingham, Tower Building, University Park, Nottingham NG7 
2RD, UK.
(4)Birmingham Women's Foundation NHS Trust, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B15 2TG, UK.

'Menorrhagia', or heavy menstrual bleeding, is a common problem affecting women. 
The principal driver for treatment is women's experience of its interference in 
their lives, so a measure of quality of life (QoL) is increasingly used as the 
primary outcome to assess treatment success. QoL measures need to accurately 
reflect women's concerns as these measures are often used to inform resource 
allocation decisions within the healthcare service. Healthcare decision-makers 
often advocate the use of generic measures so as to achieve consistency when 
making decisions. Generic measures, by definition, have a broad focus on QoL in 
contrast to disease-specific measures that focus on dimensions of health 
relevant to the condition. We report a systematic review of studies that have 
either used or assessed economic outcome measures in menorrhagia, and present 
criteria for assessing which measure is the most appropriate. Studies including 
women presenting with menorrhagia, and using or assessing economic measures were 
sought by searching nine electronic databases. Fifty-six eligible studies were 
identified. A narrative synthesis was most suitable to the review question. 
Eleven studies assessed the psychometric properties of the outcome measures, 
twelve studies applied the measures in an economic evaluation, and thirty-three 
used them in effectiveness studies. Mixed results on the psychometric properties 
of the instruments were observed. Studies were often found to include both a 
disease-specific and a generic measure. We found no consensus on the most 
appropriate economic outcome measure to use when assessing the 
cost-effectiveness of treatment for menorrhagia. This is an important finding as 
QoL is the primary focus for treatment decisions. The cyclical nature of the 
condition has a large impact on the reliability and validity of outcome 
measurement. Alternative measures, such as willingness-to-pay, which embrace 
more than health and avoid standard recall periods should be explored.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.09.016
PMID: 24331893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Zhonghua Zhong Liu Za Zhi. 2013 Sep;35(9):714-9.

[Analysis of mortality and years of life lost of malignant tumors among 
inhabitants in rural area of Feicheng city from 2000 to 2010].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhao LH(1), Wei WQ, Ma HM(2), Zhao DL.

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research Center, People's Hospital of Feicheng, Feicheng 271600, 
China.
(2)Email: kuailedema1985@163.com.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the mortality trends and disease burden of malignant 
tumors in rural area of Feicheng city from 2000 to 2010, and to provide basic 
information for the prevention and treatment of malignant tumors in this area.
METHODS: The data of cancer mortality from 2000 to 2010 from Feicheng Cancer 
Registry database were checked. Mortality rate, standardized mortality rate, 
potential years of life Iost (PYLL), standardized potential years of life lost 
(SPYLL), average years of life lost (AYLL) and other indexes were calculated and 
analyzed. The trend of the standardized rates transformed by the natural 
logarithm over time was assessed by Prais-Winsten regression method in which the 
errors was assumed to follow a first-order autoregressive process. STATA 12.0 
was used to analyze the data.
RESULTS: In average, the crude mortality rate was 199.67 per 100 000 (264.69 per 
100 000 in males and 137.24 per 100 000 in females), and the standardized 
mortality rate was 157.00 per 100 000 (200.49 per 100 000 in males and 101.31 
per 100 000 in females). There were no significant changes in the trends of all 
standardized rates. For males, the mortality rates of lung and colorectal 
cancers increased significantly, and for females, the rates of lung and breast 
cancers had increased trend while the rate of esophageal cancer showed a 
downward trend. There were no statistically significant changes in other main 
malignant tumors. During 2000 to 2010, the PYLL of malignant tumors in Feicheng 
was 183 685.0 person-years, and PYLL rate was 23.3 per 1000. The SPYLL was 153 
091.0 person-years, SPYLL rate was 19.4 per 1000, and AYLL was 14.8 years.
CONCLUSIONS: There are no obvious changes in the trends of standardized 
mortality rates in rural area of Feicheng over the past 11 years. For males, the 
mortality of lung cancer and colorectal cancer is increasing, and for females, 
the rates of lung and breast cancers have an increasing trend while the rate of 
esophageal cancer shows a decreasing trend. The prevention and control of 
digestive malignant tumors, lung cancer and breast cancer are getting seriously 
important and should be the focal point in this issue.

PMID: 24332062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. J Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2014 Oct;148(4):1341-1346.e1. doi: 
10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.10.064. Epub 2013 Dec 9.

Long-term outcomes after elective isolated mechanical aortic valve replacement 
in young adults.

Bouhout I(1), Stevens LM(2), Mazine A(1), Poirier N(1), Cartier R(1), Demers 
P(1), El-Hamamsy I(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Montreal Heart Institute, Université de 
Montréal, Montreal, Canada.
(2)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Centre Hospitalier de l'Université de 
Montréal, Université de Montréal, Montreal, Canada.
(3)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Montreal Heart Institute, Université de 
Montréal, Montreal, Canada. Electronic address: i.elhamamsy@icm-mhi.org.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to determine long-term survival and 
clinical outcomes after elective isolated mechanical aortic valve replacement in 
young adults.
METHODS: A clinical observational study was conducted in a cohort of 450 
consecutive adults less than 65 years of age who had undergone elective isolated 
mechanical aortic valve replacement (AVR) between 1997 and 2006. Patients who 
had undergone previous cardiac surgery, and those undergoing concomitant 
procedures or urgent surgery were excluded. Follow-up was 93.3% complete with a 
mean follow-up of 9.1±3.5 years. The primary end point was survival. Life table 
analyses were used to determine age- and gender-matched general population 
survival. Secondary end points were reoperation and valve-related complications.
RESULTS: Overall actuarial survival at 1, 5, and 10 years was 98%±1%, 95%±1%, 
and 87%±1%, respectively, which was lower than expected in the age- and 
gender-matched general population in Quebec. Actuarial freedom from prosthetic 
valve dysfunction was 99%±0.4%, 95%±1%, and 91%±1% at 1, 5, and 10 years, 
respectively. Actuarial freedom from valve reintervention was 98%±1%, 96%±1%, 
and 94%±1% at 1, 5 and 10 years, respectively. Actuarial survival free from 
reoperation at 10 years was 82%±2%. Actuarial freedom from major hemorrhage was 
98%±1%, 96%±1%, and 90%±2% at 1, 5, and 10 years, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In young adults undergoing elective isolated mechanical AVR, 
survival remains suboptimal compared with an age- and gender-matched general 
population. Furthermore, there is a low but constant hazard of prosthetic valve 
reintervention after mechanical AVR.

Copyright © 2014 The American Association for Thoracic Surgery. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtcvs.2013.10.064
PMID: 24332113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Lancet. 2014 Mar 8;383(9920):889-95. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)62026-7.
Epub  2013 Dec 11.

The Confidential Inquiry into premature deaths of people with intellectual 
disabilities in the UK: a population-based study.

Heslop P(1), Blair PS(2), Fleming P(2), Hoghton M(3), Marriott A(2), Russ L(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Bristol, Bristol, UK. Electronic address: 
pauline.heslop@bristol.ac.uk.
(2)University of Bristol, Bristol, UK.
(3)Clevedon Riverside Group, Clevedon Medical Centre, Clevedon, UK.
(4)Bristol City Public Health Team, Bristol, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2014 Mar 8;383(9920):853-5.

BACKGROUND: The Confidential Inquiry into premature deaths of people with 
intellectual disabilities in England was commissioned to provide evidence about 
contributory factors to avoidable and premature deaths in this population.
METHODS: The population-based Confidential Inquiry reviewed the deaths of people 
with intellectual disabilities aged 4 years and older who had been registered 
with a general practitioner in one of five Primary Care Trust areas of southwest 
England, who died between June 1, 2010, and May 31, 2012. A network of health, 
social-care, and voluntary-sector services; community contacts; and statutory 
agencies notified the Confidential Inquiry of all deaths of people with 
intellectual disabilities and provided core data. The Office for National 
Statistics provided data about the coding of individual cause of death 
certificates. Deaths were described as avoidable (preventable or amenable), 
according to Office for National Statistics definitions. Contributory factors to 
deaths were identified and quantified by the case investigator, verified by a 
local review panel meeting, and agreed by the Confidential Inquiry overview 
panel. Contributory factors were grouped into four domains: intrinsic to the 
individual, within the family and environment, care provision, and service 
provision. The deaths of a comparator group of people without intellectual 
disabilities but much the same in age, sex, and cause of death and registered at 
the same general practices as those with intellectual disabilities were also 
investigated.
FINDINGS: The Confidential Inquiry reviewed the deaths of 247 people with 
intellectual disabilities. Nearly a quarter (22%, 54) of people with 
intellectual disabilities were younger than 50 years when they died, and the 
median age at death was 64 years (IQR 52-75). The median age at death of male 
individuals with intellectual disabilities was 65 years (IQR 54-76), 13 years 
younger than the median age at death of male individuals in the general 
population of England and Wales (78 years). The median age at death of female 
individuals with intellectual disabilities was 63 years (IQR 54-75), 20 years 
younger than the median age at death for female individuals in the general 
population (83 years). Avoidable deaths from causes amenable to change by good 
quality health care were more common in people with intellectual disabilities 
(37%, 90 of 244) than in the general population of England and Wales (13%). 
Contributory factors to premature deaths in a subset of people with intellectual 
disabilities compared with a comparator group of people without intellectual 
disabilities included problems in advanced care planning (p=0·0003), adherence 
to the Mental Capacity Act (p=0·0008), living in inappropriate accommodation 
(p<0·0001), adjusting care as needs changed (p=0·009), and carers not feeling 
listened to (p=0·006).
INTERPRETATION: The Confidential Inquiry provides evidence of the substantial 
contribution of factors relating to the provision of care and health services to 
the health disparities between people with and without intellectual 
disabilities. It is imperative to examine care and service provision for this 
population as potentially contributory factors to their deaths--factors that can 
largely be ameliorated.
FUNDING: Department of Health for England.

Copyright © 2014 Heslop et al. Open Access article distributed under the terms 
of CC BY. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)62026-7
PMID: 24332307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Brain Stimul. 2014 Mar-Apr;7(2):219-25. doi: 10.1016/j.brs.2013.10.008. Epub
 2013 Nov 4.

Improvement in quality of life with left prefrontal transcranial magnetic 
stimulation in patients with pharmacoresistant major depression: acute and six 
month outcomes.

Solvason HB(1), Husain M(2), Fitzgerald PB(3), Rosenquist P(4), McCall WV(4), 
Kimball J(5), Gilmer W(6), Demitrack MA(7), Lisanby SH(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Stanford University Medical Center, Stanford 
University, 401 Quarry Road, Palo Alto, CA 94305 USA. Electronic address: 
solvason@mac.com.
(2)University of Texas Southwestern Medical School, Dallas, TX, USA.
(3)The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Australia.
(4)Medical College of Georgia, Augusta, GA, USA.
(5)Wake Forest University, Winston-Salem, NC, USA.
(6)Northwestern University, Chicago, IL, USA.
(7)Neuronetics, Inc., Malvern, PA, USA.
(8)Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Transcranial magnetic stimulation (TMS) is a safe and effective 
treatment for major depression. We describe quality of life (QOL) outcomes from 
acute treatment with TMS, and describe the durability of benefit across 
24-weeks.
METHODS: Three hundred and one medication-free patients with pharmacoresistant 
major depression were randomized to active or sham TMS in a 6-week controlled 
trial. Nonresponders to the 6-week blinded phase of the study were enrolled in a 
6-week open-label study without unblinding the prior treatment assignment. 
Responders and partial responders to both the blinded (active or sham treatment) 
or open acute treatment phases were tapered off TMS over three weeks, while 
initiating maintenance antidepressant medication monotherapy. These subjects 
entered the 24-week study to examine the durability of response to TMS. The 
Medical Outcomes Study-36 Item Short Form (SF-36) and the Quality of Life 
Enjoyment and Satisfaction Questionnaire (Q-LES-Q) were used to measure overall 
function and QOL. During the 24-week durability of effect study, QOL assessments 
were done at study entry and at the end of 24-weeks.
RESULTS: Statistically significant improvement in both functional status and QOL 
outcomes was observed in patients treated with active TMS compared with sham TMS 
during the acute phase of the randomized, sham-controlled trial. Similar 
benefits were observed in patients who entered the open-label extension study. 
These improvements were sustained across the 24-week follow up study.
CONCLUSIONS: Acute treatment with TMS improved functional status and QOL 
outcomes in patients with major depression. This clinical effect was durable in 
long-term follow up.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.brs.2013.10.008
PMID: 24332384 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Clin Genitourin Cancer. 2014 Jun;12(3):178-81. doi:
10.1016/j.clgc.2013.11.011.  Epub 2013 Nov 13.

Small renal masses initially managed using active surveillance: results from a 
retrospective study with long-term follow-up.

Brunocilla E(1), Borghesi M(2), Schiavina R(1), Della Mora L(1), Dababneh H(1), 
La Manna G(3), Monti C(4), Martorana G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Bologna, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, 
Bologna, Italy.
(2)Department of Urology, University of Bologna, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, 
Bologna, Italy. Electronic address: mark.borghesi@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Nephrology, University of Bologna, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, 
Bologna, Italy.
(4)Department of Radiology, M.F. Toniolo Hospital, Bologna, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of this study was to provide outcomes of patients 
managed using active surveillance (AS) for small renal masses (SRMs).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed data of 62 patients diagnosed 
with 64 contrast enhancing SRMs suspicious for renal cell carcinoma. We 
evaluated the differences between patients who remained on AS and those who 
underwent delayed surgical intervention.
RESULTS: The mean age of patients was 75 years and the mean follow-up was 91.5 
months. The median tumor size and the median estimated tumor volume were 2.6 cm 
and 8.7 cm(3), respectively. The median linear growth rate and the median 
volumetric growth rate were 0.7 cm/y and 8.8 cm(3)/y, respectively. The mean 
linear and volumetric growth rates of the group of patients who underwent 
surgery was higher than in those who remained on surveillance (1.9 vs. 0.4 cm/y 
and 16.1 vs. 4.6 cm(3)/y, respectively; P < .001).
CONCLUSION: Most SRMs show an indolent course, with low metastatic potential. 
Faster linear and volumetric growth rates could be the expression of malignant 
disease, thus suggesting the need for a delayed surgical intervention. AS is a 
reasonable option for the management of SRMs in properly selected patients with 
low life expectancy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clgc.2013.11.011
PMID: 24332505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Urol Oncol. 2014 May;32(4):413-8. doi: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2013.10.006. Epub
2013  Dec 12.

Does increasing life expectancy affect competing mortality after radical 
prostatectomy?

Froehner M(1), Koch R(2), Wirth MP(3), Adam M(4), Schlomm T(4), Huland H(4), 
Graefen M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Dresden 
University of Technology, Dresden, Germany. Electronic address: 
Michael.Froehner@uniklinikum-dresden.de.
(2)Department of Medical Statistics and Biometry, University Hospital Carl 
Gustav Carus, Dresden University of Technology Dresden, Germany.
(3)Department of Urology, University Hospital Carl Gustav Carus, Dresden 
University of Technology, Dresden, Germany.
(4)Martini Clinic, Prostate Cancer Centre, University Medical Centre 
Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, Germany.

OBJECTIVES: In Germany, between 1991 to 1993 and 2004 to 2006, the life 
expectancy in men increased by 4.2 years with greater gains in the eastern part 
of the country. In this study, we investigated to which degree this 
life-expectancy increase was translated into lower competing mortality rates 
after radical prostatectomy.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: The study sample comprised 6,831 consecutive patients who 
underwent radical prostatectomy at the Department of Urology of the Dresden 
University of Technology and the Department of Urology of the University of 
Hamburg/Martini Clinic in the years 1992 to 2005. The median age was 63.0 years 
and the median follow-up was 8.6 years. Three time periods (1992-1995, 
1996-2001, and 2002-2005) were compared. Competing mortality was the study end 
point. Rates after 8 years were used for comparison. Comparisons of mortality 
rates were made with the 2-sided Wald test.
RESULTS: The 8-year competing mortality rates decreased from 7.6% (1992-1995) 
via 5.6% (1996-2001) to 4.7% (2002-2005 vs. 1992-1995; P = 0.0127). When deaths 
due to unknown causes (92 of 969 deaths) were considered as non-prostate cancer 
competing deaths, the corresponding figures were 9.0 % (1992-1995), 6.5% 
(1996-2001), and 5.6% (2002-2005) vs. 1992 to 1995; P = 0.0107. The effect was 
greater in men who are 65 years of age or older and those of East German origin.
CONCLUSIONS: Parallel to the increasing life expectancy in Germany, the 
competing mortality after radical prostatectomy decreased in both centers mainly 
in men who are 65 years of age or older. This information may be important for 
elderly men considering alternatives to immediate curative treatment for early 
prostate cancer.

© 2013 Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.urolonc.2013.10.006
PMID: 24332647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Structure. 2014 Feb 4;22(2):199-208. doi: 10.1016/j.str.2013.06.028. Epub
2013  Dec 12.

A structure of a collagen VI VWA domain displays N and C termini at opposite 
sides of the protein.

Becker AK(1), Mikolajek H(2), Paulsson M(1), Wagener R(3), Werner JM(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Biochemistry, Medical Faculty, Center for Molecular Medicine 
Cologne (CMMC), Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in 
Aging-Associated Diseases (CECAD), University of Cologne, Cologne 50931, 
Germany.
(2)Centre for Biological Sciences, B85 Life Sciences Building M55, University of 
Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK.
(3)Center for Biochemistry, Medical Faculty, Center for Molecular Medicine 
Cologne (CMMC), Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in 
Aging-Associated Diseases (CECAD), University of Cologne, Cologne 50931, 
Germany. Electronic address: raimund.wagener@uni-koeln.de.
(4)Centre for Biological Sciences, B85 Life Sciences Building M55, University of 
Southampton, Southampton SO17 1BJ, UK. Electronic address: 
j.m.werner@soton.ac.uk.

Von Willebrand factor A (VWA) domains are versatile protein interaction domains 
with N and C termini in close proximity placing spatial constraints on overall 
protein structure. The 1.2 Å crystal structures of a collagen VI VWA domain and 
a disease-causing point mutant show C-terminal extensions that place the N and C 
termini at opposite ends. This allows a "beads-on-a-string" arrangement of 
multiple VWA domains as observed for ten N-terminal domains of the collagen VI 
α3 chain. The extension is linked to the core domain by a salt bridge and two 
hydrophobic patches. Comparison of the wild-type and a muscular 
dystrophy-associated mutant structure identifies a potential perturbation of a 
protein interaction interface and indeed, the secretion of mutant collagen VI 
tetramers is affected. Homology modeling is used to locate a number of 
disease-associated mutations and analyze their structural impact, which will 
allow mechanistic analysis of collagen-VI-associated muscular dystrophy 
phenotypes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.str.2013.06.028
PMCID: PMC3919171
PMID: 24332716 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Theor Popul Biol. 2014 Mar;92:62-8. doi: 10.1016/j.tpb.2013.11.006. Epub
2013  Dec 10.

Age- and time-dependent model of the prevalence of non-communicable diseases and 
application to dementia in Germany.

Brinks R(1), Landwehr S(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Biometry and Epidemiology, German Diabetes Center, Auf'm 
Hennekamp 65, D-40225 Duesseldorf, Germany. Electronic address: 
ralph.brinks@ddz.uni-duesseldorf.de.
(2)Institute for Biometry and Epidemiology, German Diabetes Center, Auf'm 
Hennekamp 65, D-40225 Duesseldorf, Germany.

We derive a partial differential equation (PDE) that models the age-specific 
prevalence of a disease as a function of the incidence, remission and mortality 
rates. The main focus is on non-communicable diseases (NCDs), although the PDE 
is not restricted to NCDs. As an application of the PDE, the number of persons 
with dementia in Germany until the year 2050 is estimated based on German 
incidence data and official population projections. Uncertainty is treated by 
different scenarios about life expectancy, number of migrants, prevalence of the 
disease in migrants, and scenarios about the future incidence, and mortality of 
demented persons. Life expectancy and incidence of dementia have the strongest 
impact on the future number of persons with dementia. In nearly all scenarios, 
our estimated case numbers exceed former estimates. Furthermore, we use an 
example to show that the PDE method yields more accurate results than a common 
alternative approach.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tpb.2013.11.006
PMID: 24333220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Acta Trop. 2015 Jan;141(Pt B):150-60. doi:
10.1016/j.actatropica.2013.12.001.  Epub 2013 Dec 12.

Health metrics for helminth infections.

King CH(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Global Health and Diseases, Case Western Reserve University School 
of Medicine, 2109 Adelbert Road, BRB Room 422, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. 
Electronic address: chk@cwru.edu.

Health metrics based on health-adjusted life years have become standard units 
for comparing the disease burden and treatment benefits of individual health 
conditions. The Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY) and the Quality-Adjusted 
Life Year (QALY) are the most frequently used in cost-effect analyses in 
national and global health policy discussions for allocation of health care 
resources. While sometimes useful, both the DALY and QALY metrics have 
limitations in their ability to capture the full health impact of helminth 
infections and other 'neglected tropical diseases' (NTDs). Gaps in current 
knowledge of disease burden are identified, and interim approaches to disease 
burden assessment are discussed.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2013.12.001
PMCID: PMC4055550
PMID: 24333545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Mech Dev. 2014 Feb;131:1-14. doi: 10.1016/j.mod.2013.12.001. Epub 2013 Dec
9.

Structural and temporal requirements of Wnt/PCP protein Vangl2 function for 
convergence and extension movements and facial branchiomotor neuron migration in 
zebrafish.

Pan X(1), Sittaramane V(1), Gurung S(1), Chandrasekhar A(2).

Author information:
(1)Bond Life Sciences Center, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA.
(2)Bond Life Sciences Center, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA; 
Division of Biological Sciences, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, 
USA; Interdisciplinary Neuroscience Program, University of Missouri, Columbia, 
MO 65211, USA; Genetics Area Program, University of Missouri, Columbia, MO 
65211, USA. Electronic address: AnandC@missouri.edu.

Van gogh-like 2 (Vangl2), a core component of the Wnt/planar cell polarity (PCP) 
signaling pathway, is a four-pass transmembrane protein with N-terminal and 
C-terminal domains located in the cytosol, and is structurally conserved from 
flies to mammals. In vertebrates, Vangl2 plays an essential role in convergence 
and extension (CE) movements during gastrulation and in facial branchiomotor 
(FBM) neuron migration in the hindbrain. However, the roles of specific Vangl2 
domains, of membrane association, and of specific extracellular and 
intracellular motifs have not been examined, especially in the context of FBM 
neuron migration. Through heat shock-inducible expression of various Vangl2 
transgenes, we found that membrane associated functions of the N-terminal and 
C-terminal domains of Vangl2 are involved in regulating FBM neuron migration. 
Importantly, through temperature shift experiments, we found that the critical 
period for Vangl2 function coincides with the initial stages of FBM neuron 
migration out of rhombomere 4. Intriguingly, we have also uncovered a putative 
nuclear localization motif in the C-terminal domain that may play a role in 
regulating CE movements.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mod.2013.12.001
PMCID: PMC4116749
PMID: 24333599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Age Ageing. 2014 May;43(3):334-41. doi: 10.1093/ageing/aft185. Epub 2013 Dec
12.

The effect of telecare on the quality of life and psychological well-being of 
elderly recipients of social care over a 12-month period: the Whole Systems 
Demonstrator cluster randomised trial.

Hirani SP(1), Beynon M, Cartwright M, Rixon L, Doll H, Henderson C, Bardsley M, 
Steventon A, Knapp M, Rogers A, Bower P, Sanders C, Fitzpatrick R, Hendy J, 
Newman SP.

Author information:
(1)School of Health Sciences, City University London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: home-based telecare (TC) is utilised to manage risks of independent 
living and provide prompt emergency responses. This study examined the effect of 
TC on health-related quality of life (HRQoL), anxiety and depressive symptoms 
over 12 months in patients receiving social care.
DESIGN: a study of participant-reported outcomes [the Whole Systems Demonstrator 
(WSD) Telecare Questionnaire Study; baseline n = 1,189] was nested in a 
pragmatic cluster-randomised trial of TC (the WSD Telecare trial), held across 
three English Local Authorities. General practice (GP) was the unit of 
randomisation and TC was compared with usual care (UC).
METHODS: participant-reported outcome measures were collected at baseline, 
short-term (4 months) and long-term (12 months) follow-up, assessing generic 
HRQoL, anxiety and depressive symptoms. Primary intention-to-treat analyses 
tested treatment effectiveness and were conducted using multilevel models to 
control for GP clustering and covariates for participants who completed 
questionnaire measures at baseline assessment plus at least one other assessment 
(n = 873).
RESULTS: analyses found significant differences between TC and UC on Short 
Form-12 mental component scores (P < 0.05), with parameter estimates indicating 
being a member of the TC trial-arm increases mental component scores 
(UC-adjusted mean = 40.52; TC-adjusted mean = 43.69). Additional significant 
analyses revealed, time effects on EQ5D (decreasing over time) and depressive 
symptoms (increasing over time).
CONCLUSIONS: TC potentially contributes to the amelioration in the decline in 
users' mental HRQoL over a 12-month period. TC may not transform the lives of 
its users, but it may afford small relative benefits on some psychological and 
HRQOL outcomes relative to users who only receive UC. International Standard 
Randomised Controlled Trial Number Register: ISRCTN 43002091.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/aft185
PMID: 24333802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Health Syst Transit. 2013;15(4):1-99.

Armenia: health system review.

Richardson E(1).

Author information:
(1)European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies.

This analysis of the Armenian health system reviews the developments in 
organization and governance, health financing, healthcare provision, health 
reforms and health system performance since 2006. Armenia inherited a Semashko 
style health system on independence from the Soviet Union in 1991. Initial 
severe economic and sociopolitical difficulties during the 1990s affected the 
population health, though strong economic growth from 2000 benefited the 
populations health. Nevertheless, the Armenian health system remains unduly 
tilted towards inpatient care concentrated in the capital city despite overall 
reductions in hospital beds and concerted efforts to reform primary care 
provision. Changes in health system financing since independence have been more 
profound, as out-of-pocket (OOP) payments now account for over half of total 
health expenditure. This reduces access to essential services for the poorest 
households - particularly for inpatient care and pharmaceuticals - and many 
households face catastrophic health expenditure. Improving health system 
performance and financial equity are therefore the key challenges for health 
system reform. The scaling up of some successful recent programmes for maternal 
and child health may offer solutions, but require sustained financial resources 
that will be challenging in the context of financial austerity and the low base 
of public financing.

World Health Organization 2013 (acting as the host organization for, and 
secretariat of, the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies).

PMID: 24334656 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


813. Health Syst Transit. 2013;15(5):1-118.

Belarus: health system review.

Richardson E(1), Malakhova I(2), Novik I(2), Famenka A(3).

Author information:
(1)European Observatory on health Systems and Policies.
(2)Republican Scientific and Practical Centre for Medical Technologies, 
Informatization, Administration and Management of Health (RSPC MT).
(3)Independent researcher, Minsk.

This analysis of the Belarusian health system reviews the developments in 
organization and governance, health financing, healthcare provision, health 
reforms and health system performance since 2008. Despite considerable change 
since independence, Belarus retains a commitment to the principle of universal 
access to health care, provided free at the point of use through predominantly 
state-owned facilities, organized hierarchically on a territorial basis. 
Incremental change, rather than radical reform, has also been the hallmark of 
health-care policy, although capitation funding has been introduced in some 
areas and there have been consistent efforts to strengthen the role of primary 
care. Issues of high costs in the hospital sector and of weaknesses in public 
health demonstrate the necessity of moving forward with the reform programme. 
The focus for future reform is on strengthening preventive services and 
improving the quality and efficiency of specialist services. The key challenges 
in achieving this involve reducing excess hospital capacity, strengthening 
health-care management, use of evidence-based treatment and diagnostic 
procedures, and the development of more efficient financing mechanisms. 
Involving all stakeholders in the development of further reform planning and 
achieving consensus among them will be key to its success.

World Health Organization 2013 (acting as the host organization for, and 
secretariat of, the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies).

PMID: 24334702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


814. Health Syst Transit. 2013;15(6):1-196.

Estonia: health system review.

Lai T(1), Habicht T(2), Kahur K(3), Reinap M(4), Kiivet R(5), van Ginneken E(6).

Author information:
(1)Ministry of Social Affairs, Estonia.
(2)Estonian Health Insurance Fund, Tallinn, Estonia.
(3)HC Management Consulting Ltd, Estonia.
(4)WHO Country Office, Estonia.
(5)University of Tartu, Estonia.
(6)Berlin University of Technology and European Observatory on Health Systems 
and Policies.

This analysis of the Estonian health system reviews recent developments in 
organization and governance, health financing, health-care provision, health 
reforms and health system performance. Without doubt, the main issue has been 
