patients screened, 2981 (17.1%) were recruited. Participants were allocated 
sequentially according to a computer-generated random allocation sequence; 1493 
(50.1%) were allocated to the probiotic and 1488 (49.9%) to the placebo arm.
INTERVENTIONS: Vegetarian capsules containing two strains of lactobacilli and 
two strains of bifidobacteria (a total of 6 × 10(10) organisms per day) were 
taken daily for 21 days. The placebo was inert maltodextrin powder in identical 
capsules.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The occurrence of AAD within 8 weeks and CDD within 12 
weeks of recruitment was determined by participant follow-up and checking 
hospital laboratory records by research nurses who were blind to arm allocation.
RESULTS: Analysis based on the treatment allocated included 2941 (98.7%) 
participants. Potential risk factors for AAD at baseline were similar in the two 
study arms. Frequency of AAD (including CDD) was similar in the probiotic 
(159/1470, 10.8%) and placebo arms [153/1471, 10.4%; relative risk (RR) 1.04; 
95% confidence interval (CI) 0.84 to 1.28; p = 0.71]. CDD was an uncommon cause 
of AAD and occurred in 12/1470 (0.8%) participants in the probiotic and 17/1471 
(1.2%) in the placebo arm (RR 0.71; 95% CI 0.34 to 1.47; p = 0.35). Duration and 
severity of diarrhoea, common gastrointestinal symptoms, serious adverse events 
and quality of life measures were also similar in the two arms. Total 
health-care costs per patient did not differ significantly between the probiotic 
(£8020; 95% CI £7620 to £8420) and placebo (£8010; 95% CI £7600 to £8420) arms.
CONCLUSION: We found no evidence that probiotic administration was effective in 
preventing AAD. Although there was a trend towards reduced CDD in the probiotic 
arm, on balance, the administration of this probiotic seems unlikely to benefit 
older patients exposed to antibiotics. A better understanding of the 
pathogenesis of AAD and CDD and the strain-specific effects of probiotics is 
needed before further clinical trials of specific microbial preparations are 
undertaken. Evaluation of the effectiveness of other probiotics will be 
difficult where other measures, such as antibiotic stewardship, have reduced CDD 
rates.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial is registered as ISRCTN70017204.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment 
programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 
17, No. 57. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project 
information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17570
PMCID: PMC4781647
PMID: 24309198 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Rev Med Interne. 2014 Jun;35(6):388-92. doi: 10.1016/j.revmed.2013.11.003.
Epub  2013 Dec 3.

[Therapeutic update in cystic fibrosis].

[Article in French]

Durupt S(1), Nove Josserand R(2), Durieu I(2).

Author information:
(1)Service de médecine interne, service adulte du centre de référence national 
de Lyon, centre de ressource et de compétences de la mucoviscidose, centre 
hospitalier Lyon-Sud, 69495 Pierre-Bénite cedex, France. Electronic address: 
stephane.durupt@chu-lyon.fr.
(2)Service de médecine interne, service adulte du centre de référence national 
de Lyon, centre de ressource et de compétences de la mucoviscidose, centre 
hospitalier Lyon-Sud, 69495 Pierre-Bénite cedex, France.

We present the recent therapeutic advances in the cystic fibrosis care. It 
concerns improvements in symptomatic treatment with the development of dry 
powder inhaled antibiotics that improved quality of life, and innovative 
treatments namely the modulators of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane protein 
conductance regulator (CFTR), molecules which act specifically at the level of 
the defective mechanisms implied in the disease. The life expectancy of cystic 
fibrosis patients born after 2000, is estimated now to be about 50 years. This 
improvement of survival was obtained with the organization of the care within 
the specialized centers for cystic fibrosis (Centre de ressource et de 
compétences de la mucoviscidose) and remains still based on heavy symptomatic 
treatments. Dry powder inhaled antibiotics constitute a significant time saving 
for patients to whom all the care can achieve two hours daily. Since 2012, the 
modulators of CFTR, molecules allowing a pharmacological approach targeted 
according to the type of the mutations, allows a more specific approach of the 
disease. Ivacaftor (Kalydeco(®)) which potentialises the function of the CFTR 
protein expressed on the cellular surface is now available for patients with the 
G551D mutation. Lumacaftor is going to be tested in association with ivacaftor 
in patients with the F508del mutation, that is present in at least 75% of the 
patients. The ataluren which allows the production of a functional protein CFTR 
in patients with a no sense mutation is the third representing of this new 
therapeutic class. We presently have numerous symptomatic treatments for the 
cystic fibrosis care. The development of CFTR modulators, today available to a 
restricted number of patients treated with ivacaftor represents a very promising 
therapeutic avenue. It will represent probably the first step to a personalized 
treatment according to CFTR genotype.

Copyright © 2013 Société nationale française de médecine interne (SNFMI). 
Published by Elsevier SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.revmed.2013.11.003
PMID: 24309546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2013 Dec;6(12):1328-36. doi: 
10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-13-0056.

Cost-effectiveness of a genetic test for breast cancer risk.

Folse HJ(1), Green LE, Kress A, Allman R, Dinh TA.

Author information:
(1)Archimedes, Inc., 123 Mission St, 11th Floor, San Francisco, CA 94105. 
henri.folse@archimedesmodel.com.

Comment in
    Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2014 Apr;7(4):476.
    Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2014 Apr;7(4):475.

Genetic testing of seven single-nucleotide polymorphisms (7SNP) can improve 
estimates of risk of breast cancer relative to the Gail risk test alone, for the 
purpose of recommending MRI screening for women at high risk. A simulation of 
breast cancer and health care processes was used to conduct a virtual trial 
comparing the use of the 7SNP test with the Gail risk test to categorize 
patients by risk. Average-risk patients received annual mammogram, whereas 
high-risk patients received annual MRI. Cancer incidence was based on 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results data and validated to Cancer 
Prevention Study II Nutrition Cohort data. Risk factor values were drawn from 
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey (NHANES-4) and Prostate, Lung, 
Colorectal, and Ovarian Cancer Screening Trial data. Mammogram characteristics 
were derived from Breast Cancer Surveillance Consortium data. The test was most 
cost-effective when given to patients at an intermediate lifetime risk of breast 
cancer. For patients with a risk of 16% to 28%, it resulted in a 1.91% reduction 
in cancer deaths, saving 0.005 quality-adjusted life years per person at a cost 
of $163,264 per QALY. These results were sensitive to the age at which the test 
is given, the discount rate, and the costs of the genetic test and MRI. The cost 
effectiveness of using the 7SNP test for patients with intermediate Gail risk is 
similar to that of other recommended strategies, including annual MRI for 
patients with a lifetime risk greater than 20% or BRCA1/2 mutations.

DOI: 10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-13-0056
PMID: 24309564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Curr Opin Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2014 Feb;22(1):42-6. doi: 
10.1097/MOO.0000000000000014.

What is the optimal management of chronic rhinosinusitis in cystic fibrosis?

Crosby DL(1), Adappa ND.

Author information:
(1)Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Over the past four decades, the average life expectancy for 
patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) has increased from 13 to 37 years of age. 
With increasing survival and improved pulmonary management, otolaryngologists 
are now seeing an increasing number of CF patients with chronic rhinosinusitis 
(CRS). Although CRS is a commonly treated disease process, there are a number of 
subtleties specific to CF. As the life expectancy of CF patients increases, 
quality of life issues gain importance. It is essential for otolaryngologists to 
understand the current therapeutic modalities to treat this challenging subset 
of CRS patients.
RECENT FINDINGS: The sinonasal mucosa of CF patients has distinct differences 
including impaired mucociliary clearance and a predominantly neutrophilic polyp 
profile. Performing more aggressive surgical intervention, especially in the 
setting of revision cases may lead to improved outcomes. A recent study 
demonstrated that extensive sinus surgery with postoperative management can 
eradicate pathogenic bacteria from the sinuses of CF patients for up to 1 year.
SUMMARY: With increasing life expectancy in CF, patients will require long-term 
follow-up with an otolaryngologist. Understanding the intricacies of the 
presentation of this disease in patients with CF is important for optimizing 
management.

DOI: 10.1097/MOO.0000000000000014
PMID: 24310292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Trans R Soc Trop Med Hyg. 2014 Jan;108(1):29-36. doi: 10.1093/trstmh/trt109.
 Epub 2013 Dec 4.

Severe forms of schistosomiasis mansoni: epidemiologic and economic impact in 
Brazil, 2010.

Nascimento GL(1), de Oliveira MR.

Author information:
(1)Núcleo de Medicina Tropical, Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, Distrito 
Federal, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Schistosoma mansoni infection is generally asymptomatic at the 
initial stage. However, patients left untreated can develop severe, potentially 
fatal clinical disease. In Brazil, S. mansoni transmission occurs in 19 states 
and, despite the contribution of infection to the cycle of poverty and disease, 
the economic impact of severe cases is unclear. Our objectives were to estimate 
the epidemiological burden and the costs of severe stages of S. mansoni in 
Brazil in 2010.
METHODS: We conducted an epidemiologic descriptive study and a partial economic 
evaluation of cost-of-illness. The study population was identified from records 
of notifications, hospitalizations and deaths related to S. mansoni in the 
respective information systems.
RESULTS: The mortality rate for S. mansoni was 0.3 deaths per 100 000 
population, which represented 1.1% of the deaths in Brazil from infectious 
diseases listed in Chapter I of the International Statistical Classification of 
Disease and Related Health Problems, 10(th) revision (ICD 10), and almost 9.0% 
of deaths from infection diseases in the state of Pernambuco. We calculated 6419 
potential years of life lost (PYLL) to S. mansoni. The costs estimated within 
the public health sector totaled R$889 049.58 (US$495 016.47) and the costs of 
productivity losses reached R$ 35 725 332.72 (US$ 19 891 590.86) in terms of 
salaries lost as a result of premature death or absence from work. The 
cost-of-illness related to S. mansoni in Brazil was R$ 36 614 382.30 (US$ 20 386 
627.12).
CONCLUSION: The severe cases of S. mansoni disease still occurring in Brazil 
have an important epidemiologic and economic impact, representing a significant 
loss for society. The development of severe cases of a neglected parasitic 
disease that is preventable and responsive to primary healthcare intervention 
should be considered an expression of inequity. Our findings provide important 
evidence to support the strengthening of public health measures and investment 
to reduce poverty-related diseases in Brazil today.

DOI: 10.1093/trstmh/trt109
PMID: 24310377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. BMJ Case Rep. 2013 Dec 5;2013:bcr2013201648. doi: 10.1136/bcr-2013-201648.

The life-saving little tip: intraosseous gas.

Kivrak AS(1), Sumer S, Demir NA, Aydin BK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Selcuk University Medical Faculty, Konya, Turkey.

A case is presented of an-aerobic osteomyelitis with intraosseous gas resulting 
in the extension of gas in soft tissue structures in a patient with diabetes 
mellitus. The finding of intraosseous gas and its extension into the pubic joint 
and the left anterior abdominal wall is depicted. Intraosseous gas is a rare but 
worrying finding for osteomyelitis in the absence of a penetrative wound, recent 
surgery, biopsy or fracture.

DOI: 10.1136/bcr-2013-201648
PMCID: PMC3863080
PMID: 24311426 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Semin Cardiothorac Vasc Anesth. 2014 Sep;18(3):260-71. doi: 
10.1177/1089253213513842. Epub 2013 Dec 5.

Marfan Syndrome: Clinical, Surgical, and Anesthetic Considerations.

Castellano JM(1), Silvay G(2), Castillo JG(3).

Author information:
(1)Cardiovascular Institute, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, NY, USA 
Centro Nacional de Investigaciones Cardiovasculares (CNIC), Madrid, Spain 
jose.castellano@mountsinai.org.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(3)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Mount Sinai Medical Center, New York, 
NY, USA.

Marfan syndrome is a multisystem connective tissue disorder, with primary 
involvement of the cardiovascular, ocular, and skeletal systems. This autosomal 
heritable disease is mainly attributable to a defect in the FBN1 gene. Clinical 
diagnosis of Marfan syndrome has been based on the Ghent criteria since 1996. In 
2010, these criteria were updated, and the revised guidelines place more 
emphasis on aortic root dilation, ectopia lentis, and FBN1 mutation testing in 
the diagnostic assessment of Marfan syndrome. Among its many different clinical 
manifestations, cardiovascular involvement deserves special consideration, owing 
to its impact on prognosis. Recent molecular, surgical, and clinical research 
has yielded profound new insights into the pathological mechanisms that 
ultimately lead to tissue degradation and weakening of the aortic wall, which 
has led to exciting new treatment strategies. Furthermore, with the increasing 
life expectancy of patients with Marfan syndrome, there has been a subtle shift 
in the spectrum of medical problems. Consequently, this article focuses on 
recent advances to highlight their potential impact on future concepts of 
patient care from a clinical, surgical, and anesthetic perspective.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1089253213513842
PMID: 24311526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Ceska Gynekol. 2013 Nov;78(5):448-59.

Risk factors for endometrial cancer.

Ali AT.

Endometrial cancer is the most common malignancy of women in developed 
countries, and its incidence is rising among pre- and postmenopausal women. In 
developed and numerous developing countries endometrial cancer, as well as other 
types of female cancers are an ever-increasing threat that may be explained, 
among other reasons, by increased life expectancy and changes in lifestyle 
factors. Endometrial cancer is more common in postmenopausal women than in 
premenopausal women. Through a review of the literature it was found that the 
risk of endometrial cancer is positively correlated with older age, early 
menarche & late menopause, obesity, family history of endometrial cancer 
(especially among close relatives), radiation exposure, and infertility 
particularly in the presence of Polycystic Ovarian Syndrome. Long-term use of 
unopposed oestrogens for hormone replacement therapy also increases the risk of 
endometrial cancer. Caucasians have a higher incidence of endometrial cancer 
than African or Asian women. Obese women were found to be at high risk for 
developing endometrial cancer, while diabetes, hypertension, and geographical 
and socioeconomic factors are still inconclusive. Finally, smoking is considered 
as a protective factor against endometrial cancer due to its anti- estrogenic 
effect.

PMID: 24313431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Annu Rev Clin Psychol. 2014;10:425-48. doi: 
10.1146/annurev-clinpsy-032813-153657. Epub 2013 Dec 2.

Excess early mortality in schizophrenia.

Laursen TM(1), Nordentoft M, Mortensen PB.

Author information:
(1)National Center for Register-Based Research, Aarhus University, 8210 Aarhus 
V, Denmark; email: tml@ncrr.dk.

Schizophrenia is often referred to as one of the most severe mental disorders, 
primarily because of the very high mortality rates of those with the disorder. 
This article reviews the literature on excess early mortality in persons with 
schizophrenia and suggests reasons for the high mortality as well as possible 
ways to reduce it. Persons with schizophrenia have an exceptionally short life 
expectancy. High mortality is found in all age groups, resulting in a life 
expectancy of approximately 20 years below that of the general population. 
Evidence suggests that persons with schizophrenia may not have seen the same 
improvement in life expectancy as the general population during the past 
decades. Thus, the mortality gap not only persists but may actually have 
increased. The most urgent research agenda concerns primary candidates for 
modifiable risk factors contributing to this excess mortality, i.e., side 
effects of treatment and lifestyle factors, as well as sufficient prevention and 
treatment of physical comorbidity.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-clinpsy-032813-153657
PMID: 24313570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


752. Curr Cardiol Rev. 2013 Nov;9(4):281-94. doi:
10.2174/1573403x09666131202121750.

Beyond adding years to life: health-related quality-of-life and functional 
outcomes in patients with severe aortic valve stenosis at high surgical risk 
undergoing transcatheter aortic valve replacement.

Deutsch MA, Bleiziffer S, Elhmidi Y, Piazza N, Voss B, Lange R, Krane M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, German Heart Center Munich, Technische 
Universitat Munchen, Lazarettstrasse 36, 80636 Munich, Germany. 
deutsch@dhm.mhn.de.

Aortic valve stenosis (AVS) is the most frequent acquired valvular heart disease 
in western industrialized countries and its prevalence considerably increases 
with age. Once becoming symptomatic severe AVS has a very poor prognosis. 
Progressive and rapid symptom deterioration leads to an impairment of functional 
status and compromised healthrelated quality-of-life (HrQoL) simultaneously. 
Until recently, surgical aortic valve replacement (SAVR) has been the only 
effective treatment option for improving symptoms and prolonging survival. 
Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR) emerged as an alternative 
treatment modality for those patients with severe symptomatic AVS in whom the 
risk for SAVR is considered prohibitive or too high. TAVR has gained clinical 
acceptance with almost startling rapidity and has even quickly become the 
standard of care for the treatment of appropriately selected individuals with 
inoperable AVS during recent years. Typically, patients currently referred for 
and treated by TAVR are elderly with a concomitant variable spectrum of multiple 
comorbidities, disabilities and limited life expectancy. Beyond mortality and 
morbidity, the assessment of HrQoL is of paramount importance not only to guide 
patient-centered clinical decision-making but also to judge this new treatment 
modality. As per current evidence, TAVR significantly improves HrQoL in 
high-surgical risk patients with severe AVS with sustained effects up to two 
years when compared with optimal medical care and demonstrates comparable 
benefits relative to SAVR. Along with a provision of a detailed overview of the 
current literature regarding functional and HrQoL outcomes in patients 
undergoing TAVR, this review article addresses specific considerations of the 
HrQoL aspect in the elderly patient and finally outlines the implications of 
HrQoL outcomes for medico-economic deliberations.

DOI: 10.2174/1573403x09666131202121750
PMCID: PMC3941091
PMID: 24313648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


753. J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2014 Feb;13(2):178-88. doi: 10.3171/2013.11.PEDS1320.
Epub  2013 Dec 6.

Comparative effectiveness of treatment options for pediatric craniopharyngiomas.

Ali ZS(1), Bailey RL, Daniels LB, Vakhshori V, Lewis DJ, Hossain AT, Sitterley 
KY, Lee JY, Storm PB, Heuer GG, Stein SC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Pennsylvania; and.

OBJECT: No clear treatment guidelines for pediatric craniopharyngiomas exist. 
The authors developed a decision analytical model to evaluate outcomes of 4 
surgical approaches for craniopharyngiomas in children, including attempted 
gross-total resection (GTR), planned subtotal removal plus radiotherapy, biopsy 
plus radiotherapy, and endoscopic resections of all kinds.
METHODS: Pooled data, including the authors' own experience, were used to create 
evidence tables, from which incidence, relative risks, and summary outcomes in 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated for the 4 management 
strategies.
RESULTS: Quality-adjusted life years at the 5-year follow-up were 2.3 ± 0.1 for 
attempted GTR, 2.9 ± 0.2 for planned subtotal removal plus radiotherapy, 3.9 ± 
0.2 for biopsy plus radiotherapy, and 3.7 ± 0.2 for endoscopic resection (F = 
17,150, p < 0.001). Similarly, QALYs at 10-year follow-up were 4.5 ± 0.2 for 
attempted GTR, 5.7 ± 0.5 for planned subtotal removal plus radiotherapy, and 7.8 
± 0.5 for biopsy plus radiotherapy (F = 6,173, p < 0.001). On post hoc pairwise 
comparisons, the differences between all pairs compared were also highly 
significant (p < 0.001). Since follow-up data at 10 years are lacking for 
endoscopic cases, this category was excluded from 10-year comparisons.
CONCLUSIONS: Biopsy with subsequent radiotherapy is the preferred approach with 
respect to improved overall quality of life. While endoscopic approaches also 
show promise in preserving quality of life at five-year follow-up, there are not 
sufficient data to draw conclusions about this comparison at 10 years.

DOI: 10.3171/2013.11.PEDS1320
PMID: 24313659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


754. Clin Otolaryngol. 2014 Feb;39(1):22-31. doi: 10.1111/coa.12205.

Conservative management, surgery and radiosurgery for treatment of vestibular 
schwannomas: a model-based approach to cost-effectiveness.

Gait C(1), Frew EJ, Martin TP, Jowett S, Irving R.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Unit, School of Health and Population Sciences, University 
of Birmingham, Birmingham, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To undertake a cost-effectiveness analysis comparing conservative 
management, surgery and radiosurgery for treating small-to-medium (1-20 
mm)-sized vestibular schwannomas.
DESIGN: Model-based economic evaluation using individual-level data from a 
Birmingham-based longitudinal patient database and from published sources. Both 
a decision tree and state-transition (Markov) model were developed, from an 
National Health Service (NHS) perspective. Sensitivity analyses were also 
carried out.
SETTING: Secondary care treatment for patients with small-to-medium-sized 
vestibular schwannomas.
PARTICIPANTS: Three hypothetical cohorts of adult patients receiving 
conservative management, radiosurgery or surgery treatment, aged 58 years as 
starting age within model.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Cost-effectiveness based on cost per quality-adjusted 
life year (QALY).
RESULTS: Conservative management is the preferred strategy for the treatment of 
small-to-medium-sized vestibular schwannomas. Conservative management is both 
cheaper (-£ 722 and -£ 2764) and more effective (0.136 and 0.554 
quality-adjusted life years) than both radiosurgery and surgery, respectively. A 
conservative strategy can therefore be considered as highly cost-effective. This 
result is sensitive to the assumed quality-of-life parameters in the model. 
Sensitivity analysis suggests that the probability of a conservative strategy 
being the most cost-effective approach compared with surgery and radiosurgery at 
a willingness to pay of £ 20 000/quality-adjusted life year gained is 80% and 
55%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: A conservative approach is the preferred strategy for treatment of 
small-to-medium vestibular schwannomas. This result is sensitive to 
quality-of-life values used in the analysis. More research is required to assess 
the impact of treatment upon patients' health-related quality of life over time.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/coa.12205
PMID: 24313969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


755. Can J Ophthalmol. 2013 Dec;48(6):482-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2013.05.004.
Epub  2013 Oct 30.

Immediately sequential bilateral cataract surgery: a cost-effective procedure.

Malvankar-Mehta MS(1), Filek R, Iqbal M, Shakir A, Mao A, Si F, Malvankar MG, 
Mehta SS, Hodge WG.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Ophthalmology, Physiology and Health Sciences, Western 
University, London, Ont.. Electronic address: Monali.Malvankar@schulich.uwo.ca.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this project was to perform a cost-effectiveness 
analysis (CEA) of immediately sequential bilateral cataract surgery (ISBCS) 
versus delayed sequential bilateral cataract surgery (DSBCS) to determine 
whether ISBCS represents an appropriate, cost-effective way to rapidly 
rehabilitate a patient's visual impairment.
DESIGN: A systematic review followed by a primary economic analysis with 
computer-based econometric modeling.
PARTICIPANTS: Not applicable.
METHODS: We constructed a decision analytic model from the perspective of the 
public third-party payer (i.e., the Ministry of Health) to conduct a CEA of both 
surgeries, ISBCS and DSBCS. Cost data consisted of the costs of the surgery, 
intravitreal injections, medications, and drops, all of which were obtained from 
a comprehensive literature search and from records at St. Joseph's Hospital, 
London, Ont. The effectiveness was measured by the utility values associated 
with visual acuity in the better seeing eye.
RESULTS: ISBCS resulted in an incremental effectiveness of 0.08 utility at an 
incremental cost of $1607. Discounting the quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
gained by an annual interest rate of 3% resulted in 0.932 QALYs gained. The 
cost-effectiveness of ISBCS was calculated to be $1431 per QALY gained. A 1-way 
sensitivity analysis was performed by varying costs, utility values, 
probabilities, and discounting rates. This analysis varied the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio but did not change the conclusion.
CONCLUSIONS: Health economics assessment showed that, compared with DSBCS, ISBCS 
is a cost-effective procedure. This finding will be highly useful to 
policy-makers, decision-makers, clinicians, hospital administrators, and payers 
in making cost-efficient decisions.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jcjo.2013.05.004
PMID: 24314408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


756. Transplant Proc. 2013;45(10):3528-30. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2013.09.002.

Multivisceral transplantation for the treatment of intra-abdominal tumors.

Nikeghbalian S(1), Aliakbarian M, Shamsaeefar A, Kazemi K, Bahreini A, 
Malekhosseini SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Namazi Hospital, School of Medicine, Shiraz University 
of Medical Sciences, Shiraz, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Some intra-abdominal or retroperitoneal tumors such as low-grade 
slow-growing malignancies may seem unresectable due to major vessel encasement 
or presence of intra-abdominal dissemination, but the slow growth rate and to 
some extent long life expectancy of the patients urge us to find some strategies 
to cure the patients or at least achieve tumor remission or symptom palliation. 
En bloc resection, followed by multivisceral or liver-sparing "modified" 
multivisceral transplantation has recently been used for treatment of these 
patients.
RESULTS: Between May 2010 and October 2012, 3 multivisceral and 3 modified 
multivisceral transplantations were performed in 6 patients (aged 14 to 55 
years; mean, 32 years) with some slow growing intra-abdominal malignancies (2 
neuroendocrine tumors, 2 gastrointestinal stromal tumors, 1 desmoid tumor, and 1 
low-grade sarcoma). All patients survived the procedure. One patient died of 
pancytopenia 2 months after transplantation and another died with pulmonary 
emboli at 4 months. The remaining 4 patients are alive without any evidence of 
disease recurrence.
CONCLUSIONS: Although large intra-abdominal desmoid tumors, well-differentiated 
neuroendocrine tumors, and gastrointestinal stromal tumors are slow growing, 
they tend to invade locally, especially to the mesenteric root and/or celiac 
axis and other abdominal viscera. Complete resection followed by multivisceral 
transplantation could be a therapeutic option for these advanced tumors.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2013.09.002
PMID: 24314950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Man Ther. 2014 Apr;19(2):114-8. doi: 10.1016/j.math.2013.08.004. Epub 2013
Sep  4.

Lumbar spine side bending is reduced in end range extension compared to neutral 
and end range flexion postures.

Ebert R(1), Campbell A(2), Kemp-Smith K(3), O'Sullivan P(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Physiotherapy, Curtin Health Innovation Research Institute, Curtin 
University, GPO Box U 1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia. Electronic address: 
ryan.j.ebert@hotmail.com.
(2)School of Physiotherapy, Curtin Health Innovation Research Institute, Curtin 
University, GPO Box U 1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia. Electronic address: 
A.Campbell@curtin.edu.au.
(3)School of Physiotherapy, Curtin Health Innovation Research Institute, Curtin 
University, GPO Box U 1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia. Electronic address: 
K.Kemp-Smith@curtin.edu.au.
(4)School of Physiotherapy, Curtin Health Innovation Research Institute, Curtin 
University, GPO Box U 1987, Perth, WA 6845, Australia. Electronic address: 
P.OSullivan@curtin.edu.au.

Lumbar side bending movements coupled with extension or flexion is a known low 
back pain (LBP) risk factor in certain groups, for example, athletes 
participating in sports such as hockey, tennis, gymnastics, rowing and cricket. 
Previous research has shown that sagittal spinal postures influence the degree 
of spinal rotation, with less rotation demonstrated at end of range extension 
and flexion. To date it is unknown whether sagittal spinal postures influence 
side bending. The aim of this study was to determine whether side bend range of 
motion (ROM) of the lumbar spine is decreased in end-range flexion and extension 
postures compared to a neutral spine. Twenty subjects between 18 and 55 years of 
age [mean age = 22.8 yrs (6.8)] with no history of LBP were recruited for this 
study. Upper (L1-L3) and lower (L3-L5) lumbar side bend, were measured utilising 
a 14 camera system (Vicon, Oxford metrics, inc.) in end-range flexion, extension 
and neutral postures, in both sitting and standing positions. The results 
revealed no statistically significant difference in upper and lower lumbar side 
bend ROM in an end-range flexion posture compared to a neutral spinal posture. A 
reduction was found in the range of upper and lower lumbar side bend ROM in an 
end-range extended posture (p < 0.05), compared to neutral and end range flexion 
postures. This ROM reduction was found in sitting and standing. These findings 
allow clinicians to better interpret combined movements involving side bending 
of the lumbar spine in clinical and real life settings.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.math.2013.08.004
PMID: 24315299 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. Z Evid Fortbild Qual Gesundhwes. 2013;107(9-10):575-84. doi: 
10.1016/j.zefq.2013.10.020. Epub 2013 Nov 12.

When is enough evidence enough? - Using systematic decision analysis and 
value-of-information analysis to determine the need for further evidence.

Siebert U(1), Rochau U, Claxton K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Health Technology Assessment, UMIT - 
University for Health Sciences, Medical Informatics and Technology, Hall i.T., 
Austria; Area Health Technology Assessment and Bioinformatics, ONCOTYROL - 
Center for Personalized Cancer Medicine, Innsbruck, Austria; Center for Health 
Decision Science, Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA, USA; Institute for Technology Assessment and 
Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: public-health@umit.at.

Decision analysis (DA) and value-of-information (VOI) analysis provide a 
systematic, quantitative methodological framework that explicitly considers the 
uncertainty surrounding the currently available evidence to guide healthcare 
decisions. In medical decision making under uncertainty, there are two 
fundamental questions: 1) What decision should be made now given the best 
available evidence (and its uncertainty)?; 2) Subsequent to the current decision 
and given the magnitude of the remaining uncertainty, should we gather further 
evidence (i.e., perform additional studies), and if yes, which studies should be 
undertaken (e.g., efficacy, side effects, quality of life, costs), and what 
sample sizes are needed? Using the currently best available evidence, VoI 
analysis focuses on the likelihood of making a wrong decision if the new 
intervention is adopted. The value of performing further studies and gathering 
additional evidence is based on the extent to which the additional information 
will reduce this uncertainty. A quantitative framework allows for the valuation 
of the additional information that is generated by further research, and 
considers the decision maker's objectives and resource constraints. Claxton et 
al. summarise: "Value of information analysis can be used to inform a range of 
policy questions including whether a new technology should be approved based on 
existing evidence, whether it should be approved but additional research 
conducted or whether approval should be withheld until the additional evidence 
becomes available." [Claxton K. Value of information entry in Encyclopaedia of 
Health Economics, Elsevier, forthcoming 2014.] The purpose of this tutorial is 
to introduce the framework of systematic VoI analysis to guide further research. 
In our tutorial article, we explain the theoretical foundations and practical 
methods of decision analysis and value-of-information analysis. To illustrate, 
we use a simple case example of a foot ulcer (e.g., with diabetes) as well as 
key references from the literature, including examples for the use of the 
decision-analytic VoI framework by health technology assessment agencies to 
guide further research. These concepts may guide stakeholders involved or 
interested in how to determine whether or not and, if so, which additional 
evidence is needed to make decisions.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier GmbH.

DOI: 10.1016/j.zefq.2013.10.020
PMID: 24315327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2014 Feb;103(2):197-205. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2013.11.006. Epub 2013 Dec 1.

Diabetes in the Africa Region: an update.

Peer N(1), Kengne AP(2), Motala AA(3), Mbanya JC(4).

Author information:
(1)Chronic Diseases of Lifestyle Research Unit, South African Medical Research 
Council, Durban, South Africa.
(2)Chronic Diseases of Lifestyle Research Unit, South African Medical Research 
Council, Cape Town, South Africa.
(3)Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Nelson R Mandela School of 
Medicine, University of KwaZulu - Natal, South Africa.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine and Specialties, Faculty of Medicine and 
Biomedical Sciences, University of Yaoundé I, Cameroon. Electronic address: 
jcmbanya@hopitcam.net.

The Africa Region (AFR), where diabetes was once rare, has witnessed a surge in 
the condition. Estimates for type 1 diabetes suggest that about 39,000 people 
suffer from the disease in 2013 with 6.4 new cases occurring per year per 
100,000 people in children <14 years old. Type 2 diabetes prevalence among 
20-79-year-olds is 4.9% with the majority of people with diabetes <60 years old; 
the highest proportion (43.2%) is in those aged 40-59 years. Figures are 
projected to increase with the numbers rising from 19.8 million in 2013 to 41.5 
million in 2035, representing a 110% absolute increase. There is an apparent 
increase in diabetes prevalence with economic development in AFR with rates of 
4.4% in low-income, 5.0% in lower-middle income and 7.0% in upper-middle income 
countries. In addition to development and increases in life-expectancy, the 
likely progression of people at high risk for the development of type 2 diabetes 
will drive the expected rise of the disease. This includes those with impaired 
glucose tolerance, the prevalence of which is 7.3% among 20-79-year-olds in 
2013. Mortality attributable to diabetes in 2013 in AFR is expected to be over 
half a million with three-quarter of these deaths occurring in those <60 years 
old. The prevalence of undiagnosed diabetes remains unacceptably high at 50.7% 
and is much higher in low income (75.1%) compared to lower- and upper-middle 
income AFR countries (46.0%). This highlights the inadequate response of local 
health systems which need to provide accessible, affordable and optimal care for 
diabetes.

Copyright © 2013. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2013.11.006
PMID: 24315460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. Lancet. 2014 Mar 8;383(9920):871-9. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)62368-5. Epub
 2013 Dec 6.

Clinical and cost-effectiveness of compression hosiery versus compression 
bandages in treatment of venous leg ulcers (Venous leg Ulcer Study IV, VenUS 
IV): a randomised controlled trial.

Ashby RL(1), Gabe R(1), Ali S(1), Adderley U(2), Bland JM(1), Cullum NA(3), 
Dumville JC(4), Iglesias CP(1), Kang'ombe AR(5), Soares MO(6), Stubbs NC(7), 
Torgerson DJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, UK.
(2)School of Healthcare, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(3)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Social Work, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK.
(4)School of Nursing, Midwifery and Social Work, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK. Electronic address: jo.dumville@manchester.ac.uk.
(5)Liverpool School of Tropical Medicine, Liverpool, UK.
(6)Centre for Health Economics, University of York, York, UK.
(7)Leeds Community Healthcare Trust, Leeds, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2014 Mar 8;383(9920):850-1.

BACKGROUND: Drawbacks exist with the standard treatment (four-layer compression 
bandages) for venous leg ulcers. We have therefore compared the clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of two-layer compression hosiery with the 
four-layer bandage for the treatment of such ulcers.
METHODS: We undertook this pragmatic, open, randomised controlled trial with two 
parallel groups in 34 centres in England and Northern Ireland. The centres were 
community nurse teams or services, family doctor practices, leg ulcer clinics, 
tissue viability clinics or services, and wound clinics. Participants were aged 
18 years or older with a venous leg ulcer and an ankle brachial pressure index 
of at least 0·8, and were tolerant of high compression. We randomly allocated 
participants (1:1) to receive two-layer compression hosiery or a four-layer 
bandage, using a remote randomisation service and prevalidated computer 
randomisation program. Participants were stratified by ulcer duration and ulcer 
area with permuted blocks (block sizes four and six). The primary endpoint was 
time to ulcer healing, with a maximum follow-up of 12 months. Although 
participants and health-care providers were not masked to treatment allocation, 
the primary endpoint was measured by masked assessment of photographs. Primary 
analysis was intention to treat with Cox regression, with adjustment for ulcer 
area, ulcer duration, physical mobility, and centre. This trial is registered 
with the ISRCTN register, number ISRCTN49373072.
FINDINGS: We randomly allocated 457 participants to the two treatment groups: 
230 to two-layer hosiery and 227 to the four-layer bandage, of whom 453 (230 
hosiery and 223 bandage) contributed data for analysis. Median time to ulcer 
healing was 99 days (95% CI 84-126) in the hosiery group and 98 days (85-112) in 
the bandage group, and the proportion of ulcers healing was much the same in the 
two groups (70·9% hosiery and 70·4% bandage). More hosiery participants changed 
their allocated treatment (38·3% hosiery vs 27·0% bandage; p=0·02). 300 
participants had 895 adverse events, of which 85 (9·5%) were classed as serious 
but unrelated to trial treatment.
INTERPRETATION: Two-layer compression hosiery is a viable alternative to the 
four-layer bandage-it is equally as effective at healing venous leg ulcers. 
However, a higher rate of treatment changes in participants in the hosiery group 
than in the bandage group suggests that hosiery might not be suitable for all 
patients.
FUNDING: NIHR Health Technology Assessment programme (07/60/26).

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)62368-5
PMID: 24315520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. Exp Gerontol. 2014 Feb;50:34-9. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.11.017. Epub 2013
Dec  4.

The long-term effects of a life-prolonging heat treatment on the Drosophila 
melanogaster transcriptome suggest that heat shock proteins extend lifespan.

Sarup P(1), Sørensen P(2), Loeschcke V(3).

Author information:
(1)Aarhus Centre for Environmental Stress Research (ACES), Department of 
Bioscience, Aarhus University, Ny Munkegade 114, Building 1540, 8000 Aarhus C, 
Denmark; Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Center for Quantitative 
Genetics and Genomics, Aarhus University, Blichers Allé 20, 8830 Tjele, Denmark. 
Electronic address: pernille.sarup@biology.au.dk.
(2)Department of Molecular Biology and Genetics, Center for Quantitative 
Genetics and Genomics, Aarhus University, Blichers Allé 20, 8830 Tjele, Denmark. 
Electronic address: peter.sorensen2@agrsci.dk.
(3)Aarhus Centre for Environmental Stress Research (ACES), Department of 
Bioscience, Aarhus University, Ny Munkegade 114, Building 1540, 8000 Aarhus C, 
Denmark. Electronic address: volker.loeschcke@biology.au.dk.

Heat-induced hormesis, i.e. the beneficial effect of mild heat-induced stress, 
increases the average lifespan of many organisms. This effect, which depends on 
the heat shock factor, decreases the log mortality rate weeks after the stress 
has ceased. To identify candidate genes that mediate this lifespan-prolonging 
effect late in life, we treated flies with mild heat stress (34 °C for 2 h) 3 
times early in life and compared the transcriptomic response in these flies 
versus non-heat-treated controls 10-51 days after the last heat treatment. We 
found significant transcriptomic changes in the heat-treated flies. Several 
hsp70 probe sets were up-regulated 1.7-2-fold in the mildly stressed flies weeks 
after the last heat treatment (P<0.01). This result was unexpected as the major 
Drosophila heat shock protein, Hsp70, is reported to return to normal levels of 
expression shortly after heat stress. We conclude that the heat shock response, 
and Hsp70 in particular, may be central to the heat-induced increase in the 
average lifespan in flies that are exposed to mild heat stress early in life.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.11.017
PMID: 24316037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Exp Gerontol. 2014 Feb;50:57-63. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.11.020. Epub 2013
Dec  4.

Lifespan extension by cranberry supplementation partially requires SOD2 and is 
life stage independent.

Sun Y(1), Yolitz J(1), Alberico T(1), Sun X(1), Zou S(2).

Author information:
(1)Functional Genomics Unit, Translational Gerontology Branch, National 
Institute on Aging, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA.
(2)Functional Genomics Unit, Translational Gerontology Branch, National 
Institute on Aging, Baltimore, MD 21224, USA. Electronic address: 
zous@mail.nih.gov.

Many nutraceuticals and pharmaceuticals have been shown to promote healthspan 
and lifespan. However, the mechanisms underlying the beneficial effects of 
prolongevity interventions and the time points at which interventions should be 
implemented to achieve beneficial effects are not well characterized. We have 
previously shown that a cranberry-containing nutraceutical can promote lifespan 
in worms and flies and delay age-related functional decline of pancreatic cells 
in rats. Here we investigated the mechanism underlying lifespan extension 
induced by cranberry and the effects of short-term or life stage-specific 
interventions with cranberry on lifespan in Drosophila. We found that lifespan 
extension induced by cranberry was associated with reduced phosphorylation of 
ERK, a component of oxidative stress response MAPK signaling, and slightly 
increased phosphorylation of AKT, a component of insulin-like signaling. 
Lifespan extension was also associated with a reduced level of 4-hydroxynonenal 
protein adducts, a biomarker of lipid oxidation. Moreover, lifespan extension 
induced by cranberry was partially suppressed by knockdown of SOD2, a major 
mitochondrial superoxide scavenger. Furthermore, cranberry supplementation was 
administered in three life stages of adult flies, health span (3-30 days), 
transition span (31-60 days) and senescence span (61 days to the end when all 
flies died). Cranberry supplementation during any of these life stages extended 
the remaining lifespan relative to the non-supplemented and life stage-matched 
controls. These findings suggest that cranberry supplementation is sufficient to 
promote longevity when implemented during any life stage, likely through 
reducing oxidative damage.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.11.020
PMCID: PMC3914538
PMID: 24316039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2013 Dec 2;10(12):6630-44. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph10126630.

Indicators for healthy ageing--a debate.

Fuchs J(1), Scheidt-Nave C, Hinrichs T, Mergenthaler A, Stein J, Riedel-Heller 
SG, Grill E.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Sport and Exercise Science, University of Muenster, 48149 
Muenster, Germany. FuchsJ@rki.de.

Definitions of healthy ageing include survival to a specific age, being free of 
chronic diseases, autonomy in activities of daily living, wellbeing, good 
quality of life, high social participation, only mild cognitive or functional 
impairment, and little or no disability. The working group Epidemiology of 
Ageing of the German Association of Epidemiology organized a workshop in 2012 
with the aim to present different indicators used in German studies and to 
discuss their impact on health for an ageing middle-European population. 
Workshop presentations focused on prevalence of chronic diseases and 
multimorbidity, development of healthy life expectancy at the transition to 
oldest-age, physical activity, assessment of cognitive capability, and 
functioning and disability in old age. The communication describes the results 
regarding specific indicators for Germany, and hereby contributes to the further 
development of a set of indicators for the assessment of healthy ageing.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph10126630
PMCID: PMC3881131
PMID: 24317381 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2013;2013:30-6. doi: 
10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.30.

Molecular approaches for improved clotting factors for hemophilia.

Kaufman RJ(1), Powell JS.

Author information:
(1)1Degenerative Disease Research, Center for Neuroscience, Aging, and Stem Cell 
Research, Sanford Burnham Medical Research Institute, La Jolla, CA; and.

Hemophilia is caused by a functional deficiency of one of the coagulation 
proteins. Therapy for no other group of genetic diseases has seen the progress 
that has been made for hemophilia over the past 40 years, from a life expectancy 
in 1970 of ∼20 years for a boy born with severe hemophilia to essentially a 
normal life expectancy in 2013 with current prophylaxis therapy. However, these 
therapies are expensive and require IV infusions 3 to 4 times each week. These 
are exciting times for hemophilia because several new technologies that promise 
extended half-lives for factor products, with potential for improvements in 
quality of life for persons with hemophilia, are in late-phase clinical 
development.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.30
PMID: 24319159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


765. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2013;2013:158-67. doi: 
10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.158.

Treatment of older patients with chronic lymphocytic leukemia: key questions and 
current answers.

Shanafelt T(1).

Author information:
(1)1Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN.

Despite the advanced age at onset, chronic lymphocytic leukemia (CLL) shortens 
the life expectancy of the majority of newly diagnosed patients. The management 
of elderly patients with CLL is more complex than that of younger patients due 
to the greater frequency of comorbidities and functional impairment as well as 
reduced organ function. Many of the recent advances in the care of CLL patients 
(prognostication, more intense combination therapy regimens) are of unclear 
relevance for elderly patients. This review addresses 5 key questions in the 
management of elderly patients with CLL: (1) why is classifying the "fitness" of 
CLL patients necessary; (2) what criteria should be used to classify patient 
fitness; (3) when should elderly patients be treated; (4) how should therapy be 
selected for elderly patients; and (5) which therapy is best (for this patient)?

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.158
PMID: 24319177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Hematology Am Soc Hematol Educ Program. 2013;2013:522-8. doi: 
10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.522.

Who benefits from allogeneic transplantation for myelodysplastic syndromes?: new 
insights.

Platzbecker U(1).

Author information:
(1)1Universitätsklinikum Carl-Gustav-Carus, Medizinische Klinik I, Dresden, 
Germany.

Recently, a refined cytogenetic and molecular classification fundamentally 
changed the prognostication of patients with myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS). 
The increasingly complex heterogeneity of this disease entity is mirrored by 
life expectancy rates ranging from almost a decade for very low-risk disease 
down to several months in higher-risk patients, even with conventional 
treatments. Intensive treatment approaches are hampered by the older age of most 
of the patients, potentially leading to an unacceptable adverse event rate. This 
is especially true for allogeneic hematopoietic stem cell transplantation (HCT), 
which, albeit of curative intent, can lead to considerable morbidity and 
mortality mostly as a result of organ toxicity, infectious complications, and 
GVHD. Furthermore, innovative drug developments, including hypomethylating 
agents, have broadened the therapeutic armamentarium and, although not curative, 
can lead to durable responses in subgroups of patients with higher-risk MDS. In 
fact, there is still no prospective randomized trial available that formally 
demonstrates the benefit of allogeneic HCT compared with standard treatments in 
MDS patients. In the absence of randomized data, when considering allogeneic 
HCT, emphasis should be put on patient selection and optimization of the pre- 
and posttransplantation treatment period. In these patients, a thorough 
comorbidity evaluation is mandatory and stratification according to age, 
cytogenetics, cytopenias, disease-related quality of life, and available 
alternative treatments should be performed in deciding whether, when, and how to 
perform allogeneic HCT.

DOI: 10.1182/asheducation-2013.1.522
PMID: 24319227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. Eur J Ageing. 2013;10(4):271-277. doi: 10.1007/s10433-013-0274-8.

The rise and fall of women's advantage: a comparison of national trends in life 
expectancy at age 65 years.

Thorslund M(1), Wastesson JW(1), Agahi N(1), Lagergren M(2), Parker MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Aging Research Center, Karolinska Institutet and Stockholm University, 
Gävlegatan 16, 113 30 Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Stockholm Gerontology Research Center, Stockholm, Sweden.

The female advantage in life expectancy (LE) is found worldwide, despite 
differences in living conditions, the status of women and other factors. 
However, this advantage has decreased in recent years in low-mortality 
countries. Few researchers have looked at the gender gap in LE in old age (age 
65) in a longer historical perspective. Have women always had an advantage in LE 
at old age and do different countries share the same trends? Life expectancy 
data for 17 countries were assessed from Human Mortality Database from 1751 to 
2007. Since most of the changes in LE taking place today are driven by 
reductions of old age mortality the gender difference in LE was calculated at 
age 65. Most low-mortality countries show the same historical trend, a rise and 
fall of women's advantage in LE at age 65. Three phases that all but two 
countries passed through were discerned. After a long phase with a female 
advantage in LE at 65 of <1 year, the gender gap increased significantly during 
the twentieth century. The increase occurred in all countries but at different 
time points. Some countries such as England and France had an early rise in 
