(1)Sismanoglion - A. Fleming General Hospital, Department of Nephrology , 15232 
Athens , Greece +0030 210 6859562 ; +0030 2610 994424 ; msonikian@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: Hyperphosphatemia is one of the major factors associated with the 
development of vascular calcification in patients with chronic kidney disease 
(CKD). Since phosphate is retained in such patients, pharmacological treatment 
and other measures are necessary to control hyperphosphatemia. Several phosphate 
binders (calcium salts, magnesium salts, non-calcium-based binders and 
aluminium) are available for the treatment of hyperphosphatemia. Nevertheless, 
none of the above mentioned agents has shown an overall superiority over others, 
while potency and side effects are quite variable among them creating 
difficulties in choosing the optimal drug for each patient.
AREAS COVERED: The authors discuss the disturbed phosphate metabolism, the 
available phosphate binders, as well as the general therapeutic principles of 
treating hyperphosphatemia in CKD patients. The literature used for this review 
had been retrieved from PubMed and covers a large number of original and 
retrospective studies as well as prospective cohort studies, meta-analyses and 
international clinical guidelines.
EXPERT OPINION: Lowering serum phosphate levels in CKD patients may potentially 
have a positive impact on cardiovascular morbidity and mortality. Factors that 
should be taken into consideration when selecting a specific drug include CKD 
stage, cardiovascular disease, severity of secondary hyperparathyroidism, 
concomitant medications, life expectancy and patient compliance. Therefore, when 
selecting a specific phosphate binder, individualisation is mandatory.

DOI: 10.1517/14656566.2013.852183
PMID: 24215605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


490. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2013 Nov 8;10(11):5936-52. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph10115936.

Biomedical progress rates as new parameters for models of economic growth in 
developed countries.

Zhavoronkov A(1), Litovchenko M.

Author information:
(1)The Biogerontology Research Foundation, London W1J 5NE, UK. 
alex@biogerontology.org.

While the doubling of life expectancy in developed countries during the 20th 
century can be attributed mostly to decreases in child mortality, the trillions 
of dollars spent on biomedical research by governments, foundations and 
corporations over the past sixty years are also yielding longevity dividends in 
both working and retired population. Biomedical progress will likely increase 
the healthy productive lifespan and the number of years of government support in 
the old age. In this paper we introduce several new parameters that can be 
applied to established models of economic growth: the biomedical progress rate, 
the rate of clinical adoption and the rate of change in retirement age. The 
biomedical progress rate is comprised of the rejuvenation rate (extending the 
productive lifespan) and the non-rejuvenating rate (extending the lifespan 
beyond the age at which the net contribution to the economy becomes negative). 
While staying within the neoclassical economics framework and extending the 
overlapping generations (OLG) growth model and assumptions from the life cycle 
theory of saving behavior, we provide an example of the relations between these 
new parameters in the context of demographics, labor, households and the firm.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph10115936
PMCID: PMC3863879
PMID: 24217179 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


491. J Biol Chem. 2013 Dec 20;288(51):36302-11. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.490052.
Epub  2013 Nov 11.

Biochemical and functional characterization of the klotho-VS polymorphism 
implicated in aging and disease risk.

Tucker Zhou TB(1), King GD, Chen C, Abraham CR.

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Pharmacology and Experimental Therapeutics and.

Klotho (KL) is an age-regulating protein named after the Greek goddess who spins 
the thread of life. Mice deficient in KL are normal throughout development, but 
rapidly degenerate and display a variety of aging-associated abnormalities that 
eventually lead to decreased life expectancy. While multiple genetic association 
studies have identified KL polymorphisms linked with changes in disease risk, 
there is a paucity of concrete mechanistic data to explain how these amino acid 
substitutions alter KL protein function. The KLVS polymorphism is suggested to 
lead to changes in protein trafficking although the mechanism is unclear. Our 
studies have sought to further investigate the functional differences in the 
KLVS variant that result in increased risk of many age-related diseases. Our 
findings suggest that the F352V and C370S substitutions lead to alterations in 
processing as seen by differences in shedding and half-life. Their co-expression 
in KLVS results in a phenotype resembling wild-type, but despite this intragenic 
complementation there are still changes in homodimerization and interactions 
with FGFR1c. Taken together, these studies suggest that KLVS leads to altered 
homodimerization that indirectly leads to changes in processing and FGFR1c 
interactions. These findings help elucidate the functional differences that 
result from the VS polymorphism, which will help clarify how alterations in KL 
function can lead to human disease and affect cognition and lifespan.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.490052
PMCID: PMC3868745
PMID: 24217253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


492. Arq Bras Cardiol. 2013 Oct;101(4 Suppl 1):1-20. doi: 10.5935/abc.2013S010.

[V Brazilian Guidelines on Dyslipidemias and Prevention of Atherosclerosis].

[Article in Portuguese]

Xavier HT, Izar MC, Faria Neto JR, Assad MH, Rocha VZ, Sposito AC, Fonseca FA, 
dos Santos JE, Santos RD, Bertolami MC, Faludi AA, Martinez TL, Diament J, 
Guimarães A, Forti NA, Moriguchi E, Chagas AC, Coelho OR, Ramires JA.

DOI: 10.5935/abc.2013S010
PMID: 24217493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


493. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2013 Dec;13(6):753-65. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2013.850420.

Mapping utilities from cancer-specific health-related quality of life 
instruments: a review of the literature.

McTaggart-Cowan H(1), Teckle P, Peacock S.

Author information:
(1)Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control, 675 West 10th Avenue, 
Vancouver, BC V5Z 1L3, Canada.

Cancer-specific health-related quality of life instruments are often used to 
evaluate the patients' quality of life in clinical trials. However, these 
instruments cannot be used in economic evaluation to guide resource allocation 
decisions. Mapping is an approach that enables utilities to be predicted for use 
in cost-utility analysis. The purpose of this study was to review the literature 
on the mapping methods used to determine utilities from two cancer-specific 
instruments. Thirteen studies were identified and a total of 53 models were 
reported. Most of the studies employed an ordinary least squares method and did 
not conduct an out-of-sample validation. There is a need for more rigorous and 
robust mapping studies to be conducted to ensure appropriate funding 
recommendations are being made.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2013.850420
PMID: 24219051 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


494. Photomed Laser Surg. 2013 Dec;31(12):571-7. doi: 10.1089/pho.2013.3561. Epub
 2013 Nov 12.

Nd:YAG laser irradiation of the tooth root surface inhibits demineralization and 
root surface softening caused by minocycline application.

Watanabe T(1), Fukuda M, Mitani A, Ting CC, Osawa K, Nagahara A, Satoh S, 
Fujimura T, Takahashi S, Iwamura Y, Murakami T, Noguchi T.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Periodontology, School of Dentistry, Aichi Gakuin University 
, Chikusa-ku, Nagoya, Aichi, Japan .

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to investigate the effect of laser 
irradiation on root surface demineralization caused by local drug delivery 
systems (DDS), and to evaluate the effect of sealing on drug retention.
BACKGROUND DATA: The duration of supportive periodontal treatment (SPT) has 
increased with increasing life expectancy. Repeated root planing and DDS 
application during SPT should be reconsidered with regard to their effects on 
the root surface.
METHODS: Extracted human teeth were collected, cut into 3 × 3 × 2 mm root dentin 
specimens, and divided randomly into eight groups with various combinations of 
Nd:YAG laser power (0, 0.5, 1, and 2 W), with and without DDS (minocycline HCl). 
Specimen microhardness and calcium (Ca) solubility were measured after 
treatment. The specimens (control and laser and DDS groups) were examined by 
scanning electron microscopy. Forty SPT patients were recruited, to assess the 
effect of periodontal pocket sealing on drug retention.
RESULTS: Laser irradiation increased the microhardness of root specimens in an 
energy-dependent manner. Calcium solubilities decreased from the 0 W+DDS group 
to the 2.0 W+DDS group. The mean Ca solubilities in the 1.0 W+DDS and 2.0 W+DDS 
groups were significantly lower than in the 0 W+DDS group (p<0.01, p<0.001, 
respectively). Laser irradiation counteracted the softening effect of DDS. 
Morphologic change was observed in the 2 W+DDS group; however, no morphologic 
changes were observed in the control and the 1 W+DDS groups. The mean 
concentration of minocycline in the periodontal pocket 24 h after application 
was 252.79 ± 67.50 μg/mL.
CONCLUSIONS: Laser irradiation of the root surface inhibited the softening and 
decalcification caused by minocycline HCl. Sealing the periodontal pockets 
effectively improved drug retention. These results suggest that the combination 
of laser irradiation and DDS could benefit patients receiving repeated SPT.

DOI: 10.1089/pho.2013.3561
PMCID: PMC3868274
PMID: 24219120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


495. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2013 Nov;61(11):2027-37. doi: 10.1111/jgs.12513.

Management of cardiovascular disease risk factors in older adults with type 2 
diabetes mellitus: 2002-2012 literature review.

Moreno G(1), Mangione CM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California at Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus (DM) is one of the most common chronic conditions in 
older adults and is often accompanied by comorbidities and geriatric syndromes. 
The management of cardiovascular disease risk factors in older adults with DM is 
important to clinicians. The literature was reviewed from 2002 to 2012 to 
provide an American Geriatrics Society expert panel with an evidence base for 
updating and making new recommendations for improving the care of older adults 
with type 2 DM. This review includes only the domains of the management of blood 
pressure, lipid control, glycemic control, and use of aspirin. Over the last 10 
years, new randomized controlled trials (RCT) designed to study different blood 
pressure treatment targets did not find evidence that intensive systolic blood 
pressure control (<130 mmHg) resulted in lower rates of myocardial infarction 
and mortality than less-intensive control. There are risks of side effects with 
achieving systolic blood pressure of less than 120 mmHg. Lipid-lowering statins 
are effective in reducing cardiovascular events in middle-aged and older adults, 
but data on niacin and fibrates is limited. Trials of statins and other 
lipid-lowering agents do not evaluate the cardiovascular effects on outcomes 
from treating lipids to different low-density lipoprotein cholesterol targets. 
No RCTs of lipid-lowering drugs enrolled significant numbers of adults aged 80 
and older with or without DM. Three major RCTs that investigated intensive 
glycemic control did not find reductions in primary cardiovascular endpoints, 
and one study reported greater mortality with glycosylated hemoglobin of less 
than 6%. Two recently published RCTs were designed to study the cardiovascular 
benefits of aspirin use by individuals with DM. Neither trial found 
significantly fewer primary cardiovascular endpoints with aspirin than in 
control groups. Overall, RCTs enrolled few adults aged 80 and older or with 
significant comorbidities. More research is needed for clinicians to effectively 
customize care to older adults with DM because of heterogeneity in health 
status, comorbidities, duration of disease, frailty and functional status, and 
differences in life expectancy.

© 2013, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2013, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.12513
PMCID: PMC3978413
PMID: 24219205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


496. Expert Rev Hematol. 2013 Dec;6(6):747-58. doi: 10.1586/17474086.2013.860355.

Treatment approaches to asymptomatic follicular lymphoma.

Sarkozy C(1), Salles G.

Author information:
(1)Hospices Civils de Lyon (HCL), Université Claude Bernard Lyon 1, Service 
d'Hématologie, Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud (CHLS), Pierre Bénite, France.

Follicular lymphoma is a heterogeneous disease in which some patients present an 
indolent evolution for decades and others, a rather aggressive form of the 
disease requiring immediate therapy. While immunochemotherapy has emerged as a 
standard of care for symptomatic patients, treatment of the asymptomatic 
population remains controversial. Since the disease is still considered 
incurable, delayed initiation of therapy is an acceptable option. However, four 
single injections of rituximab can result in an acceptable clinical response and 
can improve the duration of the interval without cytotoxic therapy. With recent 
therapeutic approaches that enable substantial improvements in life expectancy 
for follicular lymphoma patients, limiting short- or long-term treatment 
toxicities appears as a new concern in the asymptomatic population. Based on 
these options, the challenge is to preserve patient quality of life and prolong 
survival: from the patient's perspective, his/her opinion is therefore of 
significant importance.

DOI: 10.1586/17474086.2013.860355
PMID: 24219551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


497. J Insect Sci. 2013;13:77. doi: 10.1673/031.013.7701.

Prolonged postdiapause: influence on some indicators of carbohydrate and lipid 
metabolism of the red mason bee, Osmia rufa.

Dmochowska K(1), Giejdasz K, Fliszkiewicz M, Zółtowska K.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Biochemistry, Faculty of Biology, University of Warmia and 
Mazury, Olsztyn, Poland.

Bees of the genus Osmia are being used in crop pollination at an increasing 
rate. However, a short life expectancy of adult individuals limits the 
feasibility of their use. Cocoons of the red mason bee, Osmia rufa L. 
(Hymenoptera: Megachilidae), can be stored at 4° C in a postdiapause state, and 
adult bees can be used for pollination outside their natural flight period. The 
period of storage in this form has an unfavorable influence on the survival 
rate, life expectancy, and fertility of the bee. It was suggested that the 
negative results are connected with exhaustion of energy reserves. To test this 
hypothesis, the present study examined the contents of protein, carbohydrates, 
lipids, and the activities of some enzymes, and their degradation in red mason 
bees that emerged in spring according to their biological clock and in summer 
after elongated diapause. It was found that postdiapause artificially elongated 
by 3 months caused significant decreases in body weight, total sugar, glycogen, 
lipids, and protein content in O. rufa. Glucose level was highest in bees that 
emerged in the summer, which was coincident with increased activities of maltase 
and trehalase. The activities of sucrase and cellobiase were not changed, while 
amylase activity was considerably decreased. The activities of triacylglycerols 
lipase and C2, C4, C10 carboxylesterases were highest in bees that emerged in 
July. Low temperatures restrict O. rufa emergence, and during prolonged 
postdiapause, metabolic processes lead to significant reductions of structural 
and energetic compounds.

DOI: 10.1673/031.013.7701
PMCID: PMC3835046
PMID: 24219557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


498. BMJ. 2013 Nov 12;347:f6721. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f6721.

Life expectancy at birth and at age 65 for local areas in England and Wales.

Majeed A(1).

Author information:
(1)Imperial College London, London W6 8RP.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f6721
PMID: 24219911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


499. JAMA. 2013 Nov 13;310(18):1935-6. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.281923.

Reliable and sustainable comprehensive care for frail elderly people.

Lynn J(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Elder Care and Advanced Illness, Altarum Institute, Washington, 
DC.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.281923
PMID: 24219945 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


500. JAMA. 2013 Nov 13;310(18):1947-63. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.281425.

The anatomy of health care in the United States.

Moses H 3rd(1), Matheson DH, Dorsey ER, George BP, Sadoff D, Yoshimura S.

Author information:
(1)Alerion Institute and Alerion Advisors LLC, North Garden, Virginia2Johns 
Hopkins School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2013 Nov 13;310(18):1945-6.
    J Urol. 2014 Jul;192(1):190.

Health care in the United States includes a vast array of complex 
interrelationships among those who receive, provide, and finance care. In this 
article, publicly available data were used to identify trends in health care, 
principally from 1980 to 2011, in the source and use of funds ("economic 
anatomy"), the people receiving and organizations providing care, and the 
resulting value created and health outcomes. In 2011, US health care employed 
15.7% of the workforce, with expenditures of $2.7 trillion, doubling since 1980 
as a percentage of US gross domestic product (GDP) to 17.9%. Yearly growth has 
decreased since 1970, especially since 2002, but, at 3% per year, exceeds any 
other industry and GDP overall. Government funding increased from 31.1% in 1980 
to 42.3% in 2011. Despite the increases in resources devoted to health care, 
multiple health metrics, including life expectancy at birth and survival with 
many diseases, shows the United States trailing peer nations. The findings from 
this analysis contradict several common assumptions. Since 2000, (1) price 
(especially of hospital charges [+4.2%/y], professional services [3.6%/y], drugs 
and devices [+4.0%/y], and administrative costs [+5.6%/y]), not demand for 
services or aging of the population, produced 91% of cost increases; (2) 
personal out-of-pocket spending on insurance premiums and co-payments have 
declined from 23% to 11%; and (3) chronic illnesses account for 84% of costs 
overall among the entire population, not only of the elderly. Three factors have 
produced the most change: (1) consolidation, with fewer general hospitals and 
more single-specialty hospitals and physician groups, producing financial 
concentration in health systems, insurers, pharmacies, and benefit managers; (2) 
information technology, in which investment has occurred but value is elusive; 
and (3) the patient as consumer, whereby influence is sought outside traditional 
channels, using social media, informal networks, new public sources of 
information, and self-management software. These forces create tension among 
patient aims for choice, personal care, and attention; physician aims for 
professionalism and autonomy; and public and private payer aims for aggregate 
economic value across large populations. Measurements of cost and outcome 
(applied to groups) are supplanting individuals' preferences. Clinicians 
increasingly are expected to substitute social and economic goals for the needs 
of a single patient. These contradictory forces are difficult to reconcile, 
creating risk of growing instability and political tensions. A national 
conversation, guided by the best data and information, aimed at explicit 
understanding of choices, tradeoffs, and expectations, using broader definitions 
of health and value, is needed.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.281425
PMID: 24219951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


501. JAMA. 2013 Nov 13;310(18):1996. doi: 10.1001/jama.2013.282122.

JAMA Patient Page. US Health compared with like countries.

Sugerman DT, Livingston EH.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2013.282122
PMID: 24219964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


502. J Craniofac Surg. 2013 Nov;24(6):2160-2. doi: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e3182a2b7bf.

Postradiation sarcoma from a free flap.

Bingol UA(1), Arslan H, Cinar C.

Author information:
(1)From the *Department of Plastic, Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery, 
Yeditepe Medical School, Yeditepe University; and †Department of Plastic, 
Reconstructive and Aesthetic Surgery, Cerrahpaşa Medical School, Istanbul 
University, Istanbul, Turkey.

INTRODUCTION: Postradiation sarcomas constitute approximately 0.5% to 5.5% of 
all sarcomas. They develop locally approximately 3 to 20 years after the 
administration of radiotherapy (RT). They are generally high-grade tumors. 
Osteosarcomas, fibrosarcomas, malignant fibrous histiocytoma, angiosarcomas, and 
leiomyosarcomas are the most frequently observed. It is rare for these tumors to 
originate from free flaps, and this patient report is one of the first in the 
literature.
PATIENT: A 59-year-old man was operated on because of ethmoid sinus cancer in 
2004, and the reconstruction was performed with a rectus abdominis free muscle 
flap. He received postoperative RT and subsequently presented to our clinic with 
a medially protruding mass on his upper jaw. A biopsy was performed. Its 
pathologic diagnosis was reported as malignant mesenchymal tumor. Computed 
tomography and magnetic resonance imaging were performed, demonstrating that the 
mass originated from the free muscle flap (m. rectus abdominis) at the front 
wall of the sphenoid sinus. A total excision of the free muscle flap and 
near-total maxillectomy were performed. The pathologic finding was reported as 
leiomyosarcoma with bone invasion.
DISCUSSION: With the advancement of medical and pharmaceutical technologies, our 
patient's life expectancy is increasing. In long-living patients who have 
received RT, tumors can develop 20 years after the RT. The close follow-up of 
patients receiving RT is of utmost importance because treatment survival is 
linked to early diagnosis and resection with negative surgical margins. We must 
not forget that, even if years have passed since receiving RT, these patients 
may present with such tumors.

DOI: 10.1097/SCS.0b013e3182a2b7bf
PMID: 24220428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


503. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2013 Nov;6(6):724-31. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.113.000661. Epub 2013 Nov 12.

Cost-effectiveness of oral anticoagulants for treatment of atrial fibrillation.

Canestaro WJ(1), Patrick AR, Avorn J, Ito K, Matlin OS, Brennan TA, Shrank WH, 
Choudhry NK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Pharmacoepidemiology and 
Pharmacoeconomics, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA.

BACKGROUND: New anticoagulants may improve health outcomes in patients with 
atrial fibrillation, but it is unclear whether their use is cost-effective.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A Markov state transition was created to compare 4 
therapies: dabigatran 150 mg BID, apixaban 5 mg BID, rivaroxaban 20 mg QD, and 
warfarin therapy. The population included those with newly diagnosed atrial 
fibrillation who were eligible for treatment with warfarin. Compared with 
warfarin, apixaban, rivaroxaban, and dabigatran, costs were $93 063, $111 465, 
and $140 557 per additional quality-adjusted life year gained, respectively. At 
a threshold of $100 000 per quality-adjusted life year, apixaban provided the 
greatest absolute benefit while still being cost-effective, although warfarin 
would be superior if apixaban was 2% less effective than expected. Although 
apixaban was the optimal strategy in our base case, in probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis, warfarin was optimal in an equal number of iterations at a 
cost-effectiveness threshold of $100 000 per quality-adjusted life year.
CONCLUSIONS: While at a standard cost-effectiveness threshold of $100 000 per 
quality-adjusted life year, apixaban seems to be the optimal anticoagulation 
strategy; this finding is sensitive to assumptions about its efficacy and cost. 
In sensitivity analysis, warfarin seems to be the optimal choice in an equal 
number of simulations. As a result, although all the novel oral anticoagulants 
produce greater quality-adjusted life expectancy than warfarin, they may not 
represent good value for money.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.113.000661
PMID: 24221832 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


504. Hum Nat. 1991 Dec;2(4):351-85. doi: 10.1007/BF02692197.

An evolutionary perspective on the patterning of maternal investment in 
pregnancy.

Peacock N(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, UCLA, 90024-1553, Los Angeles, CA.

Pregnancy is thought to be a metabolically very expensive endeavor, yet 
investigations have produced inconsistent results concerning the responsiveness 
of human birth weight to maternal nutritional stress or nutritional 
intervention. These findings have led some researchers to conclude that fetal 
growth is strongly buffered against fluctuations in maternal energy balance, 
making the fetus in effect a "nearly perfect parasite." This buffering would 
appear to be a reasonable adaptive response given the high risk of morbidity and 
mortality associated with low birth weight. However, a life-history approach 
leads to the prediction that maternal investment strategies in pregnancy should 
be geared toward maximizing lifetime reproductive success rather than simply the 
success of the current pregnancy, and by extension that maternal investment 
strategies should vary with reproductive value. The physiology of human 
pregnancy in fact appears to include a number of mechanisms that protect 
maternal energy resources from diversion to the fetus and preserve them for 
future reproductive events. These mechanisms include adjustment of blood flow to 
the uterus and perhaps minor adjustments in gestation length, although evidence 
for the latter is scant. Suggestions are made for ways of investigating these 
maternal options.

DOI: 10.1007/BF02692197
PMID: 24222340


505. Pharmacoeconomics. 2013 Dec;31(12):1155-68. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0108-8.

Cost effectiveness of medication adherence-enhancing interventions: a systematic 
review of trial-based economic evaluations.

Oberjé EJ(1), de Kinderen RJ, Evers SM, van Woerkum CM, de Bruin M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Communication Science, Amsterdam School of Communication 
Research (ASCoR), University of Amsterdam, Kloveniersburgwal 48, 1012 CX, 
Amsterdam, The Netherlands, e.j.m.oberje@uva.nl.

BACKGROUND: In light of the pressure to reduce unnecessary healthcare 
expenditure in the current economic climate, a systematic review that assesses 
evidence of cost effectiveness of adherence-enhancing interventions would be 
timely.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to examine the cost effectiveness of 
adherence-enhancing interventions compared with care as usual in randomised 
controlled trials, and to assess the methodological quality of economic 
evaluations.
METHODS: MEDLINE, PsycInfo, EconLit and the Centre for Reviews and Dissemination 
databases were searched for randomised controlled trials reporting full economic 
evaluations of adherence-enhancing interventions (published up to June 2013). 
Information was collected on study characteristics, cost effectiveness of 
treatment alternatives, and methodological quality.
RESULTS: A total of 14 randomised controlled trials were included. The quality 
of economic evaluations and the risk of bias varied considerably between trials. 
Four studies showed incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) below the 
willingness-to-pay threshold. Few studies seemed to evaluate interventions that 
successfully changed adherence.
CONCLUSIONS: Only 14 randomised controlled trials examined the cost 
effectiveness of adherence interventions. Despite that some studies showe 
favourable ICERs, the overall quality of studies was modest and the economic 
perspectives applied were frequently narrow. To demonstrate that adherence 
interventions can be cost effective, we recommend that proven-effective 
adherence programmes are subjected to comprehensive economic evaluations.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0108-8
PMID: 24222477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


506. BMJ. 2013 Nov 12;347:f6598. doi: 10.1136/bmj.f6598.

Population ageing: the timebomb that isn't?

Spijker J(1), MacInnes J.

Author information:
(1)School of Social and Political Science, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh 
EH8 9LD, UK.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.f6598
PMID: 24222481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. Mol Cancer Ther. 2013 Dec;12(12):2917-28. doi:
10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-13-0572.  Epub 2013 Nov 12.

Low levels of circulating estrogen sensitize PTEN-null endometrial tumors to 
PARP inhibition in vivo.

Janzen DM(1), Paik DY, Rosales MA, Yep B, Cheng D, Witte ON, Kayadibi H, Ryan 
CM, Jung ME, Faull K, Memarzadeh S.

Author information:
(1)Corresponding Author: Sanaz Memarzadeh, University of California, Los 
Angeles, 555 Westwood Plaza, Level B, Box 957243, 1015 Terasaki Life Sciences 
Building, Los Angeles, CA 90095. smemarzadeh@mednet.ucla.edu.

Earlier in vitro work demonstrated that PARP inhibition induces cell death in 
PTEN-null endometrial cancer cell lines, but the in vivo therapeutic efficacy of 
these agents against endometrial cancer remains unknown. Here, we test the 
efficacy of AZD2281 (olaparib), an oral PARP inhibitor, in the therapy of 
PTEN-null endometrial tumors in a preclinical endometrial cancer mouse model. 
Primary endometrial tumors were generated by epithelial loss of PTEN using an in 
vivo model. This model recapitulates epithelial-specific loss of PTEN seen in 
human tumors, and histologically resembles endometrioid carcinomas, the 
predominant subtype of human endometrial cancers. Olaparib was administered 
orally to tumor-bearing mice in two hormonal extremes: high or low estrogen. 
Olaparib treatment achieved a significant reduction in tumor size in a low 
estrogenic milieu. In striking contrast, no response to olaparib was seen in 
tumors exposed to high levels of estrogen. Two key observations were made when 
estrogen levels were dropped: (i) the serum concentration of olaparib was 
significantly increased, resulting in sustained PARP inhibition at the tumor 
bed; and (ii) the homologous recombination pathway was compromised, as evidenced 
by decreased Rad51 protein expression and function. These two mechanisms may 
account for the sensitization of PTEN-null tumors to olaparib with estrogen 
deprivation. Results of this preclinical trial suggest that orally administered 
PARP inhibitors in a low estrogenic hormonal milieu can effectively target 
PTEN-null endometrial tumors. Extension of this work to clinical trials could 
personalize the therapy of women afflicted with advanced endometrial cancer 
using well-tolerated orally administered therapeutic agents.

©2013 AACR.

DOI: 10.1158/1535-7163.MCT-13-0572
PMCID: PMC3904550
PMID: 24222661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interest: The authors declare that 
they have no competing interests.


508. PLoS Med. 2013 Nov;10(11):e1001545. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001545. Epub
2013  Nov 5.

Antenatal syphilis screening using point-of-care testing in Sub-Saharan African 
countries: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Kuznik A(1), Lamorde M, Nyabigambo A, Manabe YC.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Institute, Makerere College of Health Sciences, Kampala, 
Uganda ; Pfizer, New York, New York, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Untreated syphilis in pregnancy is associated with adverse clinical 
outcomes for the infant. Most syphilis infections occur in sub-Saharan Africa 
(SSA), where coverage of antenatal screening for syphilis is inadequate. 
Recently introduced point-of-care syphilis tests have high accuracy and 
demonstrate potential to increase coverage of antenatal screening. However, 
country-specific cost-effectiveness data for these tests are limited. The 
objective of this analysis was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness and budget 
impact of antenatal syphilis screening for 43 countries in SSA and estimate the 
impact of universal screening on stillbirths, neonatal deaths, congenital 
syphilis, and disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) averted.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: The decision analytic model reflected the perspective of 
the national health care system and was based on the sensitivity (86%) and 
specificity (99%) reported for the immunochromatographic strip (ICS) test. 
Clinical outcomes of infants born to syphilis-infected mothers on the end points 
of stillbirth, neonatal death, and congenital syphilis were obtained from 
published sources. Treatment was assumed to consist of three injections of 
benzathine penicillin. Country-specific inputs included the antenatal prevalence 
of syphilis, annual number of live births, proportion of women with at least one 
antenatal care visit, per capita gross national income, and estimated hourly 
nurse wages. In all 43 sub-Saharan African countries analyzed, syphilis 
screening is highly cost-effective, with an average cost/DALY averted of US$11 
(range: US$2-US$48). Screening remains highly cost-effective even if the average 
prevalence falls from the current rate of 3.1% (range: 0.6%-14.0%) to 0.038% 
(range: 0.002%-0.113%). Universal antenatal screening of pregnant women in 
clinics may reduce the annual number of stillbirths by up to 64,000, neonatal 
deaths by up to 25,000, and annual incidence of congenital syphilis by up to 
32,000, and avert up to 2.6 million DALYs at an estimated annual direct medical 
cost of US$20.8 million.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of ICS tests for antenatal syphilis screening is highly 
cost-effective in SSA. Substantial reduction in DALYs can be achieved at a 
relatively modest budget impact. In SSA, antenatal programs should expand access 
to syphilis screening using the ICS test. Please see later in the article for 
the Editors' Summary.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001545
PMCID: PMC3818163
PMID: 24223524 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: AK is a full-time employee of Pfizer, Inc. with 
ownership of stock in Pfizer, Inc. All other authors declare that no competing 
interests exist.


509. PLoS Med. 2013 Nov;10(11):e1001547. doi: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001547. Epub
2013  Nov 5.

Burden of depressive disorders by country, sex, age, and year: findings from the 
global burden of disease study 2010.

Ferrari AJ(1), Charlson FJ, Norman RE, Patten SB, Freedman G, Murray CJ, Vos T, 
Whiteford HA.

Author information:
(1)University of Queensland, School of Population Health, Herston, Queensland, 
Australia ; Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, Wacol, Queensland, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Depressive disorders were a leading cause of burden in the Global 
Burden of Disease (GBD) 1990 and 2000 studies. Here, we analyze the burden of 
depressive disorders in GBD 2010 and present severity proportions, burden by 
country, region, age, sex, and year, as well as burden of depressive disorders 
as a risk factor for suicide and ischemic heart disease.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Burden was calculated for major depressive disorder (MDD) 
and dysthymia. A systematic review of epidemiological data was conducted. The 
data were pooled using a Bayesian meta-regression. Disability weights from 
population survey data quantified the severity of health loss from depressive 
disorders. These weights were used to calculate years lived with disability 
(YLDs) and disability adjusted life years (DALYs). Separate DALYs were estimated 
for suicide and ischemic heart disease attributable to depressive disorders. 
Depressive disorders were the second leading cause of YLDs in 2010. MDD 
accounted for 8.2% (5.9%-10.8%) of global YLDs and dysthymia for 1.4% 
(0.9%-2.0%). Depressive disorders were a leading cause of DALYs even though no 
mortality was attributed to them as the underlying cause. MDD accounted for 2.5% 
(1.9%-3.2%) of global DALYs and dysthymia for 0.5% (0.3%-0.6%). There was more 
regional variation in burden for MDD than for dysthymia; with higher estimates 
in females, and adults of working age. Whilst burden increased by 37.5% between 
1990 and 2010, this was due to population growth and ageing. MDD explained 16 
million suicide DALYs and almost 4 million ischemic heart disease DALYs. This 
attributable burden would increase the overall burden of depressive disorders 
from 3.0% (2.2%-3.8%) to 3.8% (3.0%-4.7%) of global DALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: GBD 2010 identified depressive disorders as a leading cause of 
burden. MDD was also a contributor of burden allocated to suicide and ischemic 
heart disease. These findings emphasize the importance of including depressive 
disorders as a public-health priority and implementing cost-effective 
interventions to reduce its burden. Please see later in the article for the 
Editors' Summary.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pmed.1001547
PMCID: PMC3818162
PMID: 24223526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare that no competing interests 
exist.


510. PLoS One. 2013 Nov 4;8(11):e78509. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078509. 
eCollection 2013.

Control efficacy of annual community-wide treatment against Schistosoma 
japonicum in China: a meta-analysis.

Su J(1), Lu DB, Zhou X, Wang SR, Zhuge HX.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Statistics, School of Public Health, Soochow 
University, Suzhou, China.

BACKGROUNDS: Human schistosomiasis is caused by schistosome, with annual loss of 
over 70 million disability adjusted life years in the world. China is endemic 
with Schistosoma japonicum and large-scale chemotherapy with praziquantel has 
become the mainstay of control in China since 1990s. However, the control 
effects of mass treatment in the field have been uneven. Moreover, mass 
treatment has come into a wide use in other countries with limited health 
resources. Therefore, a better understanding of the control effect of mass 
treatment is in an urgent need.
METHODS: We performed a systematic search of the literature to investigate the 
control efficiency of annual community-wide treatment (ACWT, treatment to an 
entire community without any preliminary screening) with a single dose of PZQ 
(40 mg kg(-1) bodyweight) against schistosome in humans in China. Three Chinese 
literature databases, including China National Knowledge Infrastructure, WanFang 
and Chinese Scientific Journal Databases, and the PubMed were searched. Pooled 
prevalence ratios (prevalence after to before treatment) were used to assess 
effect. Our protocol is available on PROSPERO (No. CRD42013003628).
RESULTS: 22 articles were included. Meta-analyses on data from 18 studies on one 
round of ACWT, 17 studies on two consecutive rounds and 6 studies on three 
consecutive rounds were performed. The results showed control effects of ACWT 
plus other measures were statistically significant, with prevalence ratios being 
0.38 (0.31, 0.46) for one round, 0.28 (0.22, 0.35) for two rounds and 0.22 
(0.10, 0.46) for three rounds. When ACWT was performed alone or with health 
education only, the values for one and two rounds were 0.389 (0.307, 0.492) and 
0.348 (0.300, 0.403), respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: The control effect of ACWT alone or with other measures is 
significant and increases with the number of rounds. Such program is recommended 
in high endemic areas and the criteria yet merit further assessment.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078509
PMCID: PMC3817216
PMID: 24223819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


511. J Econ Entomol. 2013 Oct;106(5):2118-25. doi: 10.1603/ec12491.

Age-stage two-sex life tables of Panonychus ulmi (Acari: Tetranychidae), on 
different apple varieties.

Yin WD(1), Qiu GS, Yan WT, Sun LN, Zhang HJ, Ma CS, Adaobi UP.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Pomology, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Xingcheng, Liaoning 125100, China.

To understand the influence of different apple varieties on the development and 
reproduction of the European red mite, Panonychus ulmi (Koch) (Acari: 
Tetranychidae), age-stage two-sex life tables of P. ulmi on 'Fuji,' 'Starkrimson 
Delicious,' 'Golden Delicious,' and 'Granny Smith' varieties were constructed 
under laboratory conditions at 23 +/- 1 degrees C, 75 +/- 5% relative humidity, 
and a photoperiod of 16:8 (L:D) h. Results showed that total development time of 
immature females was shorter on Fuji than on the other varieties, and this was 
because of its shorter egg duration. Immature survival of P. ulmi was 
74.51-78.00% among four apple varieties, and no significant differences were 
found. The total fecundity per female was significantly higher on Golden 
Delicious (34.12 eggs per female) than that on Fuji (27.15 eggs per female), 
Starkrimson Delicious (25.15 eggs per female), and Granny Smith (20.62 eggs per 
female). Based on the intrinsic rate of population increase, Fuji and Golden 
Delicious were more suitable than Starkrimson Delicious and Granny Smith.

DOI: 10.1603/ec12491
PMID: 24224254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. J Econ Entomol. 2013 Oct;106(5):2177-82. doi: 10.1603/ec13089.

Physiological and population responses of armyworm Mythimna separata 
(Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) to a sublethal dose of cantharidin-AC.

Rashid M(1), Khan RA, Zhang Y.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Plant Protection Resources and Pest Management, Ministry of 
Education, College of Plant Protection, Northwest A&F University, Yangling, 
Shaanxi 712100, China.

The oriental armyworm Mythimna separata Walker is a serious threat to the 
production of cereals. Its control has largely relied on synthetic insecticides, 
which led to the decrease in their effectiveness. In China, cantharidin, a 
natural compound of insect origin with a mode of action different from a 
conventional insecticide, is being developed as a bio-insecticide for the 
control of lepidopteran pests. Its toxicological effects have already been 
studied in M. separata. However, its sublethal effects on physiological and 
population parameters have not yet been studied. The leaf dip bioassay results 
showed that cantharidin-AC (cantharidin acetone solution) had a high level of 
toxicity against M. separata and the 96 h LC50 value was 223 microg/ml. The 
sublethal effects of cantharidin exposure for 72 h at LC10 (77 microg/ml) on 
physiological and population parameters of M. sepatata were also investigated, 
and data were subjected to an age-stage two-sex life-table. The sublethal 
effects of cantharidin indicated reduction in survival rates of larval, pupal, 
and adult stages. In addition, both male and female moths were observed with 
crippled wings in the cantharidin-treated cohort. The mean values of the finite 
rate of increase (lambda), the intrinsic rate of increase (gamma), and the net 
reproductive rate (R(o)) were significantly lower in the treatment than in the 
control. The fecundity was also strongly affected by a sublethal cantharidin 
concentration. A sublethal concentration of cantharidin may reduce the 
population growth of M. separata by decreasing its survival and reproduction and 
by increasing its generation time.

DOI: 10.1603/ec13089
PMID: 24224262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Diabetes Technol Ther. 2014 Mar;16(3):150-5. doi: 10.1089/dia.2013.0168.
Epub  2013 Nov 13.

Hospital readmission and emergency department use based on prescribing patterns 
in patients with severely uncontrolled type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Lee PH(1), Franks AS, Barlow PB, Farland MZ.

Author information:
(1)1 Harrison School of Pharmacy, Auburn University , Auburn, Alabama.

BACKGROUND: Patients with uncontrolled diabetes are more likely to be readmitted 
to the hospital. The study objective was to determine the risk of hospital 
admission or emergency department (ED) use in patients with severely 
uncontrolled type 2 diabetes mellitus based on whether their diabetes medication 
regimen was intensified at discharge.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: A retrospective cohort study of patients admitted to the 
medicine services at an academic medical center was conducted during a 9-month 
period. Medical records were reviewed to identify patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus and hemoglobin A1c >10% who were admitted for more than 24 h. Primary 
exclusion criteria included pregnancy, age >65 or <18 years, life expectancy of 
<12 months, hypoglycemia at admission, and new diagnosis of type 2 diabetes. 
Admission medication lists for patients were compared with discharge medications 
to determine whether the diabetes regimen was intensified. Patients whose 
regimen was intensified were then compared with patients whose regimen was not 
intensified for admissions and ED visits within 3 months after discharge. The 
primary end point was 90-day all-cause hospital and ED visits.
RESULTS: Patients who had their regimens intensified had significantly fewer 
average all-cause hospital and ED visits at 90 days (0.41 vs. 0.85; P=0.044). 
Statistical differences were also found in 30-day all-cause visits, readmissions 
within 90 days, and hospital-free time.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients whose home diabetes regimen was intensified at discharge 
were less likely to return to the hospital within 90 days compared with patients 
whose regimen was not intensified.

DOI: 10.1089/dia.2013.0168
PMID: 24224752 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Expert Rev Anticancer Ther. 2014 Jan;14(1):63-73. doi: 
10.1586/14737140.2014.856270.

Economic evaluation of sipuleucel-T immunotherapy in castration-resistant 
prostate cancer.

Holko P(1), Kawalec P.

Author information:
(1)Centrum HTA, Krakow, Poland.

The objective is to examine the cost-utility of sipuleucel-T immunotherapy in 
asymptomatic or minimally symptomatic castration-resistant prostate cancer 
patients. The addition of sipuleucel-T immunotherapy to standard treatment led 
to a gain of 0.37 quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) at an additional cost of 
US$104,536. The incremental cost-utility ratio was US$283,000 per QALY saved. 
Threshold sensitivity analyses indicated that a price reduction of at least 53%, 
or application in a group of patients resulting in the relative reduction in the 
mortality rate of at least 39%, ought to augment the economic value of this 
regimen. Sipuleucel-T immunotherapy treatment at the current price with 96.5% 
certainty is not cost-effective. The specific group of patients who will benefit 
more from the treatment should be revealed and treated, or the cost of the 
vaccine should be lowered significantly to increase its economic value. 
Accounting for crossover treatment in control patients improves sipuleucel-T's 
value (US$132,000 per QALY saved) although further investigation is necessary.

DOI: 10.1586/14737140.2014.856270
PMID: 24224852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Pediatr Exerc Sci. 2014 May;26(2):127-37. doi: 10.1123/pes.2013-0126. Epub
2013  Nov 13.

Acute exercise and postprandial lipemia in young people.

Tolfrey K(1), Thackray AE, Barrett LA.

Author information:
(1)School of Sport, Exercise and Health Sciences, Loughborough University, 
Loughborough, UK.

Exaggerated postprandial triacylglycerol concentrations (TAG) independently 
predict future cardiovascular events. Acute exercise and diet interventions 
attenuate postprandial TAG in adults. This paper aims to examine the exercise 
postprandial lipemia studies published to date in young people. Nine studies 
satisfied the inclusion criteria adopted for this summary. The majority of 
studies are in boys (22% girls) and have shown a single ~60-min session of 
moderate-intensity exercise, performed 12-18 hours before a standardized meal, 
reduces postprandial TAG. Manipulations of exercise duration and intensity 
suggest an exercise energy expenditure dose-dependent response is not supported 
directly in healthy young people. Studies investigating alternative exercise 
bouts have reported lower postprandial TAG after simulated intermittent games 
activity, high-intensity interval running and cumulative 10-min blocks over 
several hours, which may appeal to the spontaneous physical activity habits of 
young people. Although extension of these initial findings is warranted, 
exercise may be an effective strategy to promote regular benefits in TAG 
metabolism in children and adolescents; this may contribute to an improved 
cardiovascular disease risk profile early in life.

DOI: 10.1123/pes.2013-0126
PMID: 24225063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2013 Nov 12;10(11):6096-105. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph10116096.

Impediments to comprehensive research on climate change and health.

McMichael AJ(1).

Author information:
(1)National Centre for Epidemiology and Population Health, Australian National 
University, Acton, ACT 0200, Australia. tony.mcmichael@anu.edu.au.

During every climatic era Life on Earth is constrained by a limited range of 
climatic conditions, outside which thriving and then surviving becomes 
difficult. This applies at both planetary and organism (species) levels. 
Further, many causal influences of climate change on human health entail 
changes-often disruptive, sometimes irreversible-in complex system functioning. 
Understanding the diverse health risks from climate change, and their influence 
pathways, presents a challenge to environmental health researchers whose prior 
work has been in a more definable, specific and quantitative milieu. Extension 
of the research agenda and conceptual framework to assess present and future 
health risks from climate change may be constrained by three factors: (i) lack 
of historically-informed understanding of population-health sensitivity to 
climatic changes; (ii) an instinctual 'epidemiologising' tendency to choose 
research topics amenable to conventional epidemiological analysis and risk 
estimation; and (iii) under-confidence in relation to interdisciplinary 
collaborative scenario-based modeling of future health risks. These constraints 
must be recognized and remedied. And environmental researchers must argue for 
heightened public attention to today's macro-environmental threats to present 
and future population health-emphasising the ecological dimension of these 
determinants of long-term health that apply to whole populations and 
communities, not just to individuals and social groupings.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph10116096
PMCID: PMC3863889
PMID: 24225646 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. J Natl Compr Canc Netw. 2013 Nov;11(11):1364-72. doi:
10.6004/jnccn.2013.0160.

Models of care and NCCN guideline adherence in very-low-risk prostate cancer.

Aizer AA(1), Paly JJ, Zietman AL, Nguyen PL, Beard CJ, Rao SK, Kaplan ID, 
Niemierko A, Hirsch MS, Wu CL, Olumi AF, Michaelson MD, D'Amico AV, Efstathiou 
JA.

Author information:
(1)From the aHarvard Radiation Oncology Program, and bDepartment of Radiation 
Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital; cDepartment of Radiation Oncology, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital/Dana-Farber Cancer Institute; dDepartment of 
Medicine, Division of General Internal Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital; 
eDepartment of Radiation Oncology, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center; 
fDepartment of Radiation Oncology, Division of Biostatistics and Biomathematics, 
Massachusetts General Hospital; gDepartment of Pathology, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital; and hDepartment of Pathology, iDepartment of Urology, and jDepartment 
of Medicine, Division of Hematology/Oncology, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, Massachusetts.

NCCN Guidelines recommend active surveillance as the primary management option 
for patients with very-low-risk prostate cancer and an expected survival of less 
than 20 years, reflecting the favorable prognosis of these men and the lack of 
perceived benefit of immediate, definitive treatment. The authors hypothesized 
