that care at a multidisciplinary clinic, where multiple physicians have an 
opportunity to simultaneously review and discuss each case, is associated with 
increased rates of active surveillance in men with very-low-risk prostate 
cancer, including those with limited life expectancy. Of 630 patients with 
low-risk prostate cancer managed at 1 of 3 tertiary care centers in Boston, 
Massachusetts in 2009, 274 (43.5%) had very-low-risk classification. Patients 
were either seen by 1 or more individual practitioners in sequential settings or 
at a multidisciplinary clinic, in which concurrent consultation with 2 or more 
of the following specialties was obtained: urology, radiation oncology, and 
medical oncology. Patients seen at a multidisciplinary prostate cancer clinic 
were more likely to select active surveillance than those seen by individual 
practitioners (64% vs 30%; P<.001), an association that remained significant on 
multivariable logistic regression (odds ratio [OR], 4.16; P<.001). When the 
analysis was limited to patients with an expected survival of less than 20 
years, this association remained highly significant (72% vs 34%, P<.001; OR, 
5.19; P<.001, respectively). Multidisciplinary care is strongly associated with 
selection of active surveillance, adherence to NCCN Guidelines and minimization 
of overtreatment in patients with very-low-risk prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.6004/jnccn.2013.0160
PMID: 24225970 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. ScientificWorldJournal. 2013 Oct 9;2013:693514. doi: 10.1155/2013/693514. 
eCollection 2013.

Prognosis of elderly Japanese patients aged ≥80 years undergoing hemodialysis.

Hatakeyama S(1), Murasawa H, Hamano I, Kusaka A, Narita T, Oikawa M, Noro D, 
Hagiwara K, Ishimura H, Yoneyama T, Hashimoto Y, Koie T, Saitoh H, Funyu T, 
Ohyama C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Hirosaki University Graduate School of Medicine, 5 
Zaifu-chou, Hirosaki 036-8562, Japan.

Although the number of elderly patients requiring dialysis has increased, data 
regarding the prognosis of elderly patients undergoing hemodialysis are limited. 
In the present study, prognosis in Japanese hemodialysis patients aged ≥80 years 
was evaluated. From January 1988 to July 2013, 1144 consecutive patients with 
end-stage renal disease required renal replacement therapy at our institution; 
of these, 141 were aged ≥80 years. These patients' charts were retrospectively 
reviewed for relevant clinical variables and survival time. The life 
expectancies table from the National Vital Statistics database was used, and 
prognostic factors were assessed by multivariate analysis. In total, 107 deaths 
(76%) were recorded during the study period. The median survival time and 
estimated life-shortening period in the patients were 2.6 years and -5.3 years, 
respectively. Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance Status and 
hemoglobin level were revealed as prognostic factors in the multivariate 
analysis. Estimates of prognosis and prognostic factors may provide useful 
information for physicians as well as elderly patients with end-stage kidney 
disease.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/693514
PMCID: PMC3817639
PMID: 24228012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Med Lav. 2013 Jul-Aug;104(4):277-88.

[Asbestos-related diseases in former asbestos-cement workers in Senigallia].

[Article in Italian]

Perticaroli P(1), Mengucci R, Carletti M, Magnini P, Marcellini M, Pettinari A, 
Durastanti M.

Author information:
(1)Servizio Prevenzione e Sicurezza Ambienti di Lavoro, Dipartimento di 
Prevenzione, ASUR Marche Area Vasta 2 Senigallia. 
patrizia.perticaroli@sanita.marche.it

BACKGROUND: A factory that produced asbestos-cement products, using chrysotile, 
amosite and crocidolite in very low percentages, cement and water, operated in 
Senigallia from 1948 to 1984. Workers and residents still living in Senigallia 
are 238.
OBJECTIVES: The need for an organic response to requests by former workers for 
protection of health and recognition of occupational diseases induced the 
Prevention and Safety at the Workplace Service in Senigallia/Area Vasta 2 to 
implement a programme of health surveillance.
METHODS: In 2010 a health surveillance programme was initiated that involved 158 
subjects, 58 women and 100 men. The average age of men was 75 years and 70 for 
women. The time elapsed between first exposure and participation in the 
programme was on average 50 years (SD 7.49). The average number of years of 
exposure to asbestos fibres was 17 (SD 10.36). The programme included 
counselling activities, especially as regards cessation of smoking, and first 
and second level health checks.
RESULTS: The health surveillance programme enabled us to diagnose pleural 
plaques and pleural thickening in 81% of the subjects and various degrees of 
interstitial abnormalities in 49.4%. The high percentage of asbestos-related 
diseases was connected mainly with the long latency of the population under 
study and the higher diagnostic sensitivity of low dose chest CT scan applied to 
these diseases.
CONCLUSIONS: In our experience, in order to optimize the benefits of a health 
surveillance programme of former workers exposed to asbestos, it will be 
advisable to define parameters of access to the programme for individual 
subjects in relation to life expectancy, clinical conditions, time elapsed since 
first exposure, time of cessation of exposure. Such parameters, together with 
any risk factors, will influence the diagnostic process.

PMID: 24228306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. World Hosp Health Serv. 2013;49(2):33-9.

Financing health care in the United Arab Emirates.

Taha NF(1), Sharif AA, Blair I.

Author information:
(1)Taha Actuaries and Consultants, Dubai, United Arab Emirates.

Newcomers to the United Arab Emirates (UAE) health care system often enquire 
about the way in which UAE health services are financed particularly when 
funding issues affect eligibility for treatment. The UAE ranks alongside many 
western counties on measures of life expectancy and child mortality but because 
of the unique population structure spends less of its national income on health. 
In the past as a wealthy country the UAE had no difficulty ensuring universal 
access to a comprehensive range of services but the health needs of the UAE 
population are becoming more complex and like many countries the UAE health 
system is facing the twin challenges of quality and cost. To meet these 
challenges new models of health care financing are being introduced. In this 
brief article we will describe the evolution of UAE health financing, its 
current state and likely future developments.

PMID: 24228347 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. Environ Sci Technol. 2013 Dec 17;47(24):14450-8. doi: 10.1021/es403987k.
Epub  2013 Nov 21.

Revision and extension of Eco-LCA metrics for sustainability assessment of the 
energy and chemical processes.

Yang S(1), Yang S, Kraslawski A, Qian Y.

Author information:
(1)School of Chemical Engineering, South China University of Technology , 
Guangzhou 510640, People's Republic of China.

Ecologically based life cycle assessment (Eco-LCA) is an appealing approach for 
the evaluation of resources utilization and environmental impacts of the process 
industries from an ecological scale. However, the aggregated metrics of Eco-LCA 
suffer from some drawbacks: the environmental impact metric has limited 
applicability; the resource utilization metric ignores indirect consumption; the 
renewability metric fails to address the quantitative distinction of resources 
availability; the productivity metric seems self-contradictory. In this paper, 
the existing Eco-LCA metrics are revised and extended for sustainability 
assessment of the energy and chemical processes. A new Eco-LCA metrics system is 
proposed, including four independent dimensions: environmental impact, resource 
utilization, resource availability, and economic effectiveness. An illustrative 
example of comparing assessment between a gas boiler and a solar boiler process 
provides insight into the features of the proposed approach.

DOI: 10.1021/es403987k
PMID: 24228888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Biochemistry (Mosc). 2013 Sep;78(9):1023-32. doi: 10.1134/S0006297913090083.

Evidence for aging theories from the study of a hunter-gatherer people (Ache of 
Paraguay).

Libertini G(1).

Author information:
(1)Independent Researcher. giacinto.libertini@tin.it.

In the late seventies, a small tribal population of Paraguay, the Ache, living 
under natural conditions, was studied. Data from this population turn out to be 
useful for considerations about evolutionary hypotheses on the aging phenomenon. 
1) Ache show an age-related increasing mortality, which strongly limits the mean 
duration of life, as observed in other studies on mammal and bird species. 2) 
According to current theories on aging, in the wild very few or no individual 
reach old age and, so, aging cannot be directly influenced by natural selection. 
However, data from our population show that a significant proportion of the 
population reaches in the wild 60 and 70 years of age. 3) Data from Ache are 
also in agreement with the observation about an inverse correlation between 
extrinsic mortality and deaths due to the age-related increasing mortality. 4) 
For many gerontologists, the age-related decline of vital functions is a 
consequence of the gradual decline of cell turnover, genetically determined and 
regulated by the declining duplication capacities of stem cells. The current 
interpretation is that these restrictions are a general defense against the 
proliferation of any tumoral mass. However, among wild Ache cancer is virtually 
unknown in non-elderly subjects, and only among older individuals are there 
deaths attributable to oncological diseases. Moreover, fitness decline begins 
long before oncological diseases have fatal effects in significant numbers. This 
completely disproves the current hypothesis, because a supposed defense against 
a deadly disease cannot exterminate a population before the disease begins to 
kill. These data are consistent with similar data from other species studied 
under natural conditions, and they bring new arguments against the non-adaptive 
interpretation of aging and in support of the adaptive interpretation.

DOI: 10.1134/S0006297913090083
PMID: 24228924 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. J Biosoc Sci. 2014 Jul;46(4):462-79. doi: 10.1017/S002193201300062X. Epub
2013  Nov 8.

Changing age patterns of morbidity vis-à-vis mortality in India.

Arokiasamy P(1), Yadav S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Development Studies,International Institute for Population 
Sciences,Mumbai,India.

The combined effects of decreased fertility and mortality coupled with 
increasing survivorship across most ages have been upsetting the levels and age 
patterns of morbidity and mortality in India. This study examined data from the 
National Sample Survey (NSS) and Sample Registration System (SRS) of India. The 
results reveal marked structural changes in the age patterns of morbidity and 
mortality. The analysis also tested whether morbidity contours are being 
compressed or expanded, connecting it with the ongoing processes of demographic 
and epidemiological transition. The Sullivan (1971) method was used to estimate 
the health ratio over three time periods to ascertain the expansion of 
morbidity. The results reveal an exceptional rise in the prevalence rate of 
chronic non-communicable diseases in ages 60 and above. The proportion of 
unhealthy years of the total life expectancy has increased more than before for 
all older age groups. Overall, the results confirm that an expansion of 
morbidity is in progress, with a heavier and cumulated concentration of 
morbidity in older ages. The expansion of morbidity hypothesis is validated for 
major categories of population: rural, urban, male and female. Older females 
bear a much heavier burden of chronic non-communicable diseases and are 
vulnerable to a higher proportion of unhealthy years. The age-structural shifts 
in morbidity and mortality signal the steady progress of epidemiological 
transition in India.

DOI: 10.1017/S002193201300062X
PMID: 24229561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. Prev Chronic Dis. 2013 Nov 14;10:E186. doi: 10.5888/pcd10.130112.

Obesity, mortality, and life years lost associated with breast cancer in 
nonsmoking US Women, National Health Interview Survey, 1997-2000.

Chang SH(1), Pollack LM, Colditz GA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Department of Surgery, Washington 
University School of Medicine, 660 S Euclid Ave, Campus Box 8100, St Louis, MO 
63110. E-mail: changsh@wudosis.wustl.edu.

INTRODUCTION: The relationship between obesity and breast cancer has been 
extensively investigated. However, how obesity and breast cancer interplay to 
affect mortality and life expectancy of women in the United States has not been 
well studied.
METHODS: We used data from the National Health Interview Survey, 1997-2000. Our 
sample included nonsmoking, nonpregnant women who reported a body mass index of 
at least 18.5 kg/m(2) and no cancer other than breast cancer at the time of the 
survey. A survival model with Gamma frailty and Gompertz baseline was used to 
estimate relative risks of total mortality and project life years lost 
associated with breast cancer by obesity status and age.
RESULTS: Breast cancer increased risk of mortality depending on degree of 
obesity and decreased life years by 1 to 12 years depending on race, age, and 
obesity status. Relative risks for death increased with degree of obesity. Obese 
women under age 50 across all racial groups were predicted to lose the most life 
years; racial groups other than whites and blacks lost the most life years (11.9 
y), followed by whites (9.8 y) and blacks (9.2 y).
CONCLUSION: The number of life years lost associated with breast cancer was more 
marked for more obese than for less obese women and for women under age 50 and 
women aged 70 or older than for women aged 50 through 69. Public health 
initiatives should put more emphasis on the prevention and control of obesity 
for these target populations.

DOI: 10.5888/pcd10.130112
PMCID: PMC3830922
PMID: 24229569 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Psychiatr Clin North Am. 2013 Dec;36(4):475-81. doi:
10.1016/j.psc.2013.07.001.  Epub 2013 Oct 6.

Late life depression: a global problem with few resources.

McCall WV(1), Kintziger KW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Health Behavior, Medical College of Georgia, 
Georgia Regents University, 997 St. Sebastian Way, Augusta, GA 30909, USA. 
Electronic address: wmccall@gru.edu.

Mental health disorders in terms of an aging population are discussed in this 
review. Statistics on depression in later life are presented with a discussion 
of physical health comorbidities. This presentation postulates that the health 
care infrastructure currently in place is inadequate to meet the present, much 
less the future, needs of this population. The care of the depressed elder will 
require the coordinated effort of psychiatrists, psychologists, social workers, 
nurse practitioners and advanced practice psychiatric nurses, internal medicine 
gerontologists, internal medicine and family medicine general physicians, 
community agencies, and volunteers.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.psc.2013.07.001
PMCID: PMC3830423
PMID: 24229651 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Exp Gerontol. 2014 Jan;49:26-34. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.10.015. Epub 2013
Nov  12.

Mechanical and non-mechanical functions of Dystrophin can prevent cardiac 
abnormalities in Drosophila.

Taghli-Lamallem O(1), Jagla K(2), Chamberlain JS(3), Bodmer R(4).

Author information:
(1)Development and Aging Program, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute, 
10901 North Torrey Pines Rd, Building 7 Room 7125, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA; 
GReD, INSERM U1103, CNRS UMR6293-Clermont University, Faculty of Medicine 28, 
Place Henri Dunant, 63000 Clermont-Ferrand, France. Electronic address: 
ouarda.taghli-lamallem@udamail.fr.
(2)GReD, INSERM U1103, CNRS UMR6293-Clermont University, Faculty of Medicine 28, 
Place Henri Dunant, 63000 Clermont-Ferrand, France.
(3)University of Washington School of Medicine, Department of Neurology, Box 
357720, Seattle, WA 98195-7720, USA.
(4)Development and Aging Program, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research Institute, 
10901 North Torrey Pines Rd, Building 7 Room 7125, La Jolla, CA 92037, USA. 
Electronic address: rolf@sanfordburnham.org.

Dystrophin-deficiency causes cardiomyopathies and shortens the life expectancy 
of Duchenne and Becker muscular dystrophy patients. Restoring Dystrophin 
expression in the heart by gene transfer is a promising avenue to explore as a 
therapy. Truncated Dystrophin gene constructs have been engineered and shown to 
alleviate dystrophic skeletal muscle disease, but their potential in preventing 
the development of cardiomyopathy is not fully understood. In the present study, 
we found that either the mechanical or the signaling functions of Dystrophin 
were able to reduce the dilated heart phenotype of Dystrophin mutants in a 
Drosophila model. Our data suggest that Dystrophin retains some function in fly 
cardiomyocytes in the absence of a predicted mechanical link to the 
cytoskeleton. Interestingly, cardiac-specific manipulation of nitric oxide 
synthase expression also modulates cardiac function, which can in part be 
reversed by loss of Dystrophin function, further implying a signaling role of 
Dystrophin in the heart. These findings suggest that the signaling functions of 
Dystrophin protein are able to ameliorate the dilated cardiomyopathy, and thus 
might help to improve heart muscle function in micro-Dystrophin-based gene 
therapy approaches.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2013.10.015
PMCID: PMC4340692
PMID: 24231130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


527. Indian J Med Sci. 2013 Mar-Apr;67(3-4):70-7.

The effect of a healthy lifestyle program on the elderly's health in Arak.

Hekmatpou D(1), Shamsi M, Zamani M.

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, Ph.D in Health Education, Arak, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Increasing life-expectancy and decreasing birth rate have led to an 
increase in the elderly population worldwide so that the aging population is 
considered one of the biggest public health concerns in the present century 
which demands more attention to this vulnerable group. Therefore, the present 
study was done to determine the effect of a healthy lifestyle program on 
elderly's health in Arak.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This quasi-experimental intervention study was carried 
out on 60 elderly citizens of Arak. The participants attended four instructional 
classes on nutrition, exercise, sleep hygiene, life skills, and personal hygiene 
over one month and they were followed for three months after the intervention. 
Data were collected through standard quality of life questionnaire (SF-36) and 
Katz standard ADLs in the elderly questionnaire before and three months after 
the completion of the study.
RESULTS: The average age of the participants was 67.61 ± 5.02 years. In terms of 
gender, the majority of the participants (60%) were male. In terms of quality of 
life before the instructional intervention, 13.3% of the participants were in 
low level, 30% in average level, 41.7% in good level, and 15% in the high level 
of quality of life. However, after the intervention, the majority of the 
participants were in good (38.3%) and high (45%) levels of quality of life which 
showed significant differences before and after the instructional intervention 
(P < 0.001). Moreover, there was a significant difference between Katz ADLs in 
the elderly before and after the intervention (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: The comparison between the quality of life and ADLs in the elderly 
before and after the intervention showed that continuing instruction for the 
elderly based on a regular healthy lifestyle program is effective and holding 
different instructional classes for this population, that is often ignored, 
seems necessary. The findings of this study can help design proper instructional 
guidelines on healthy lifestyle in the elderly.

PMID: 24231395 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Noise Health. 2013 Nov-Dec;15(67):437-45. doi: 10.4103/1463-1741.121253.

The cost of hypertension-related ill-health attributable to environmental noise.

Harding AH(1), Frost GA, Tan E, Tsuchiya A, Mason HM.

Author information:
(1)Health and Safety Laboratory, Harpur Hill, Buxton, Derbyshire, SK17 9JN, 
United Kingdom.

Hypertension (HT) is associated with environmental noise exposure and is a risk 
factor for a range of health outcomes. The study aims were to identify key HT 
related health outcomes and to quantify and monetize the impact on health 
outcomes attributable to environmental noise-related HT. A reiterative 
literature review identified key HT related health outcomes and their 
quantitative links with HT. The health impact of increases in environmental 
noise above recommended daytime noise levels (55 dB[A]) were quantified in terms 
of quality adjusted life years and then monetized. A case study evaluated the 
cost of environmental noise, using published data on health risks and the number 
of people exposed to various bands of environmental noise levels in the United 
Kingdom (UK). Three health outcomes were selected based on the strength of 
evidence linking them with HT and their current impact on society: Acute 
myocardial infarction (AMI), stroke and dementia. In the UK population, an 
additional 542 cases of HT-related AMI, 788 cases of stroke and 1169 cases of 
dementia were expected per year due to daytime noise levels ≥55 dB(A). The cost 
of these additional cases was valued at around £1.09 billion, with dementia 
accounting for 44%. The methodology is dependent on the availability and quality 
of published data and the resulting valuations reflect these limitations. The 
estimated intangible cost provides an insight into the scale of the health 
impacts and conversely the benefits that the implementation of policies to 
manage environmental noise may confer.

DOI: 10.4103/1463-1741.121253
PMID: 24231422 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. Vet J. 2013 Dec;198(3):678-83. doi: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2013.09.062. Epub 2013
Oct 1.

Causes of death and the impact of histiocytic sarcoma on the life expectancy of 
the Dutch population of Bernese mountain dogs and Flat-coated retrievers.

Erich SA(1), Rutteman GR, Teske E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Companion Animals, Faculty of Veterinary Medicine, Utrecht 
University, Yalelaan 108, 3508 TD Utrecht, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
s.a.erich@uu.nl.

Bernese mountain dogs and Flat-coated retrievers are predisposed to hereditary 
oncological diseases. Since 1986 several authors have reported a high prevalence 
of tumours in both breeds, especially malignant histiocytosis/histiocytic 
sarcoma, which has a negative influence on life expectancy. However, many 
earlier reports included relatively low numbers of dogs, distributed over a 
small number of broad categories, often using outdated disease criteria. The aim 
of this study was to provide new data on causes of death, and the relative role 
of tumours, especially histiocytic sarcoma, collected and verified in a large 
number of dogs of both breeds in co-operation with dog owners and veterinarians. 
The study demonstrates that the death of at least 55.1% of Bernese mountain dogs 
and 63.8% of Flat-coated retrievers is associated with malignant tumours. In 
addition, it appears that over 1/7 of all Bernese mountain dogs and Flat-coated 
retrievers die because of histiocytic sarcoma. This emphasises the need for 
further research on tumours, especially histiocytic sarcoma.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tvjl.2013.09.062
PMID: 24231621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


530. AJNR Am J Neuroradiol. 2014 Apr;35(4):808-14. doi: 10.3174/ajnr.A3764. Epub
2013  Nov 14.

Diffusional kurtosis imaging of the developing brain.

Paydar A(1), Fieremans E, Nwankwo JI, Lazar M, Sheth HD, Adisetiyo V, Helpern 
JA, Jensen JH, Milla SS.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Radiology (A.P., E.F., J.I.N., M.L., H.D.S., V.A., 
S.S.M.), Center for Biomedical Imaging, New York University School of Medicine, 
New York, New York.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Diffusional kurtosis imaging is an extension of DTI but 
includes non-Gaussian diffusion effects, allowing more comprehensive 
characterization of microstructural changes during brain development. Our 
purpose was to use diffusional kurtosis imaging to measure age-related 
microstructural changes in both the WM and GM of the developing human brain.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Diffusional kurtosis imaging was performed in 59 subjects 
ranging from birth to 4 years 7 months of age. Diffusion metrics, fractional 
anisotropy, and mean kurtosis were collected from VOIs within multiple WM and GM 
structures and subsequently analyzed with respect to age. Diffusional kurtosis 
tractography images at various stages of development were also generated.
RESULTS: Fractional anisotropy and mean kurtosis both showed age-related 
increases in all WM regions, reflecting progression of diffusional anisotropy 
throughout development, predominantly in the first 2 years of life (eg, 70% and 
157% increase in fractional anisotropy and mean kurtosis, respectively, from 
birth to 2 years for the splenium). However, mean kurtosis detected continued 
microstructural changes in WM past the fractional anisotropy plateau, accounting 
for more delayed isotropic changes (eg, 90% of maximum fractional anisotropy was 
reached at 5 months, whereas 90% of maximum mean kurtosis occurred at 18 months 
for the external capsule). Mean kurtosis may also provide greater 
characterization of GM maturation (eg, the putamen showed no change in 
fractional anisotropy but an 81% change in mean kurtosis from birth to 4 years 7 
months).
CONCLUSIONS: Mean kurtosis detects significant microstructural changes 
consistent with known patterns of brain maturation. In comparison with 
fractional anisotropy, mean kurtosis may offer a more comprehensive evaluation 
of age-related microstructural changes in both WM and GM and is potentially a 
valuable technique for studying brain development.

DOI: 10.3174/ajnr.A3764
PMCID: PMC7965814
PMID: 24231848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Surg Neurol Int. 2013 Oct 10;4:139. doi: 10.4103/2152-7806.119730.
eCollection  2013.

The World - Socio-economically and politically: What you need to know.

Ausman JI(1).

Author information:
(1)Editor-in-Chief, Surgical Neurology International, 69844 Highway 111 Suite C, 
Rancho Mirage, USA.

The gravest challenge facing the USA and the nations of the world is the coming 
economic crisis of the world economies, if present policies are pursued. Few are 
aware or believe that this event could happen. The spread of centralized 
government control of the economies, the growth of the welfare state worldwide, 
the expenditures on entitlements beyond what any nation or even most states can 
afford, the cost of wars, the rapidly climbing debt of the USA and other 
countries and their inability to pay for these excessive expenses, the actions 
of many countries to print "fiat" (false) money to pay for their debts, the 
raising of taxes to pay for these debts, the rise in immigration to developed 
countries from the undeveloped world, the associated costs to their societies of 
this immigration, the promises made by politicians to get elected that cannot be 
fulfilled, and the desire of the public to have what they want, now, paid for by 
credit cards (debt), are all contributing to the coming economic crisis. The 
unfunded promised benefits to the citizens of the USA in Medicare, Medicaid, 
Social Security, and pensions plus the USA debt amount to about $140 trillion. 
The total value of all the assets of all the people in the USA is $99 trillion 
dollars. So, one can see that the people of the USA do not have the resources to 
pay their expenses. Besides, these entitlements, the rest of the expenses are 
paid for with borrowed or printed (fiat) money that has little chance of being 
repaid unless perhaps by subsequent generations or by increases in taxes. 
Efforts to correct this coming economic crisis by austerity and sacrifice have 
been rejected by the public and the politicians worldwide. The Governments and 
the Press have participated in deception of the public about these issues in 
order to maintain their positions of power, for the truth would destroy them. No 
solution is in sight except more spending and valueless money printing. This 
unchecked desire for more of everything without the responsibility to work or 
pay for these entitlements, has touched many countries and people with a few 
exceptions. This problem is the result of a worldwide breakdown of ethics and 
morality in society and a desire of the few for centralized control and power 
over the people. No country has instituted a solution to these problems that 
results in reducing expenditures or the growing debts. As many have stated in 
this paper, this policy cannot be sustained. The result of this scenario will be 
a worldwide economic crisis. Fundamental to this impending economic crisis is 
the failure of centrally controlled economies and socialistic programs. Those 
selected groups, who benefit from having control, are the politicians, bankers, 
some selected industry leaders, and socialist planners, who will stop at nothing 
to maintain power and control over the people. Liberty of the people is in 
jeopardy worldwide. Read the evidence presented and decide if this summary is 
correct. The troubling question is, "What will happen if the world economy 
collapses?" Will this crisis be a time for the few to take more control of the 
people through fear, crisis decisions, misinformation, prevention of the public 
from protecting themselves with guns, and pervasive spying technology on each 
citizen or will more democratic governments arise from the failure of 
centralized control, the welfare state, and the loss of liberty? Such crises 
have been repeated throughout 4000 years of recorded history. What happened in 
those past times? Read the quotations of Vladimir Lenin, developer of 
Marxism-Leninism, the foundation of Communism and judge what you have read from 
his statements. An alternative to this dismal scenario is little discussed also 
in the Press. Why not? In the past 150 years, the alternative has happened with 
a rapid growth in democracy, communications technology, and life expectancy from 
advances in science and medicine. To unleash this huge human potential, at this 
time, will require individual freedom to create and innovate with the 
opportunity for risk and reward in an environment aided by unrestrictive 
governments even at the community and organizational levels. History records the 
success of the alternatives in the great leadership and creativity of humankind. 
The USA and the world are at the critical choice for their futures. We are 
experiencing the results of centrally controlling governments worldwide that are 
not working. Is it time for an alternative option? Read the evidence in this 
paper and decide for yourself. Reading this paper will take you time, but you 
will not read all of this information elsewhere. It is key to your future. 
Decide for yourself what you should do after reading it. The URLs of many of the 
references are included so that you can read further about the many subjects 
presented yourself.

DOI: 10.4103/2152-7806.119730
PMCID: PMC3815094
PMID: 24231906


532. Support Care Cancer. 2014 Mar;22(3):803-10. doi: 10.1007/s00520-013-2037-7.

Oral health conditions affect functional and social activities of terminally ill 
cancer patients.

Fischer DJ, Epstein JB, Yao Y, Wilkie DJ.

PURPOSE: Oral conditions are established complications in terminally ill cancer 
patients. Yet despite significant morbidity,the characteristics and impact of 
oral conditions in these patients are poorly documented. The study objective was 
to characterize oral conditions in terminally ill cancer patients to determine 
the presence, severity, and the functional and social impact of these oral 
conditions.
METHODS: This was an observational clinical study including terminally ill 
cancer patients (2.5–3-week life expectancy). Data were obtained via the Oral 
Problems Scale (OPS) that measures the presence of subjective xerostomia, 
orofacial pain, taste change, and the functional/social impact of oral 
conditions and a demographic questionnaire. A standardized oral examination was 
used to assess objective salivary hypofunction, fungal infection, mucosal 
erythema, and ulceration. Regression analysis and t test investigated the 
associations between measures.
RESULTS: Of 104 participants, most were ≥50 years of age,female, and high-school 
educated; 45 % were African American, 43 % Caucasian, and 37 % married. Oral 
conditions frequencies were: salivary hypofunction (98 %), mucosal erythema (50 
%), ulceration (20 %), fungal infection(36 %), and other oral problems (46 %). 
Xerostomia, taste change, and orofacial pain all had significant functional 
impact; p <.001, p =.042 and p <.001, respectively. Orofacial pain also had a 
significant social impact (p <.001). Patients with oral ulcerations had 
significantly more orofacial pain with a social impact than patients without 
ulcers (p =.003). Erythema was significantly associated with fungal infection 
and with mucosal ulceration (p <.001).
CONCLUSIONS: Oral conditions significantly affect functional and social 
activities in terminally ill cancer patients. Identification and management of 
oral conditions in these patients should therefore be an important clinical 
consideration.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-013-2037-7
PMCID: PMC3962694
PMID: 24232310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. Genet Med. 2014 Mar;16(3):251-7. doi: 10.1038/gim.2013.122. Epub 2013 Oct
17.

The economic value of personalized medicine tests: what we know and what we need 
to know.

Phillips KA(1), Ann Sakowski J(2), Trosman J(3), Douglas MP(4), Liang SY(5), 
Neumann P(6).

Author information:
(1)1] Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California, USA [2] UCSF Philip R. Lee Institute for Health 
Policy, San Francisco, California, USA [3] UCSF Helen Diller Family 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, San Francisco, California, USA [4] UCSF Institute 
for Human Genetics, Center for Business Models in Healthcare, Chicago, Illinois, 
USA.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California, USA.
(3)1] Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California, USA [2] UCSF Institute for Human Genetics, Center for 
Business Models in Healthcare, Chicago, Illinois, USA.
(4)1] Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California, USA [2] McKing Consulting Corporation, Fairfax, 
Virginia, USA.
(5)1] Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of California, San Francisco, 
San Francisco, California, USA [2] Palo Alto Medical Foundation Research 
Institute, Palo Alto, California, USA.
(6)Center for Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts, 
USA.

Comment in
    Genet Med. 2014 Mar;16(3):225-7.

PURPOSE: There is uncertainty about when personalized medicine tests provide 
economic value. We assessed evidence on the economic value of personalized 
medicine tests and gaps in the evidence base.
METHODS: We created a unique evidence base by linking data on published 
cost-utility analyses from the Tufts Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Registry with 
data measuring test characteristics and reflecting where value analyses may be 
most needed: (i) tests currently available or in advanced development, (ii) 
tests for drugs with Food and Drug Administration labels with genetic 
information, (iii) tests with demonstrated or likely clinical utility, (iv) 
tests for conditions with high mortality, and (v) tests for conditions with high 
expenditures.
RESULTS: We identified 59 cost-utility analyses studies that examined 
personalized medicine tests (1998-2011). A majority (72%) of the 
cost/quality-adjusted life year ratios indicate that testing provides better 
health although at higher cost, with almost half of the ratios falling below 
$50,000 per quality-adjusted life year gained. One-fifth of the results indicate 
that tests may save money.
CONCLUSION: Many personalized medicine tests have been found to be relatively 
cost-effective, although fewer have been found to be cost saving, and many 
available or emerging medicine tests have not been evaluated. More evidence on 
value will be needed to inform decision making and assessment of genomic 
priorities.

DOI: 10.1038/gim.2013.122
PMCID: PMC3949119
PMID: 24232413 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURE The authors declare no conflict of 
interest.


534. Sensors (Basel). 2013 Nov 13;13(11):15504-12. doi: 10.3390/s131115504.

Development of on-line monitoring systems for high temperature components in 
power plants.

Zhang H(1), Jia J, Wang N, Hu X, Tu ST, Zhou S, Wang Z.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Pressure Systems and Safety, Ministry of Education, East 
China University of Science and Technology, Shanghai 200237, China. 
jhjia@ecust.edu.cn.

To accurately detect deformation and extend the component life beyond the 
original design limits, structural safety monitoring techniques have attracted 
considerable attention in the power and process industries for decades. In this 
paper an on-line monitoring system for high temperature pipes in a power plant 
is developed. The extension-based sensing devices are amounted on straight 
pipes, T-Joints and elbows of a main steam pipeline. During on-site monitoring 
for more than two years, most of the sensors worked reliably and steadily. 
However, the direct strain gauge could not work for long periods because of the 
high temperature environment. Moreover, it is found that the installation and 
connection of the extensometers can have a significant influence on the 
measurement results. The on-line monitoring system has a good alarming function 
which is demonstrated by detecting a steam leakage of the header.

DOI: 10.3390/s131115504
PMCID: PMC3871136
PMID: 24233026


535. Drugs Aging. 2014 Jan;31(1):33-45. doi: 10.1007/s40266-013-0134-4.

Recommendations to prescribe in complex older adults: results of the CRIteria to 
assess appropriate Medication use among Elderly complex patients (CRIME) 
project.

Onder G, Landi F, Fusco D, Corsonello A, Tosato M, Battaglia M, Mastropaolo S, 
Settanni S, Antocicco M, Lattanzio F.

Comment in
    Drugs Aging. 2014 Apr;31(4):327-8.
    Drugs Aging. 2014 Apr;31(4):329.

The occurrence of several geriatric conditions may influence the efficacy and 
limit the use of drugs prescribed to treat chronic conditions. Functional and 
cognitive impairment, geriatric syndromes (i.e. falls or malnutrition) and 
limited life expectancy are common features of old age, which may limit the 
efficacy of pharmacological treatments and question the appropriateness of 
treatment. However, the assessment of these geriatric conditions is rarely 
incorporated into clinical trials and treatment guidelines. The CRIME (CRIteria 
to assess appropriate Medication use among Elderly complex patients) project is 
aimed at producing recommendations to guide pharmacologic prescription in older 
complex patients with a limited life expectancy, functional and cognitive 
impairment, and geriatric syndromes, and providing physicians with a tool to 
improve the quality of prescribing, independent of setting and nationality. To 
achieve these aims, we performed the following: (i) Existing disease-specific 
guidelines on pharmacological prescription for the treatment of diabetes, 
hypertension, congestive heart failure, atrial fibrillation and coronary heart 
disease were reviewed to assess whether they include specific indications for 
complex patients; (ii) a literature search was performed to identify relevant 
articles assessing the pharmacological treatment of complex patients; (iii) A 
total of 19 new recommendations were developed based on the results of the 
literature search and expert consensus. In conclusion, the new recommendations 
evaluate the appropriateness of pharmacological prescription in older complex 
patients, translating the recommendations of clinical guidelines to patients 
with a limited life expectancy, functional and cognitive impairment, and 
geriatric syndromes. These recommendations cannot represent substitutes for 
careful clinical consideration and deliberation by physicians; the 
recommendations are not meant to replace existing clinical guidelines, but they 
may be used to help physicians in the prescribing process.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-013-0134-4
PMID: 24234805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. J Comp Eff Res. 2013 Jan;2(1):7-9. doi: 10.2217/cer.12.65.

Comparative effectiveness research in liver transplantation: crossing the cost 
and quality chasm.

Jay CL(1), Skaro AI.

Author information:
(1)Comprehensive Transplant Center, Northwestern University, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, 676 St Clair Street, Suite 19-087, Chicago, IL 60611, USA.

DOI: 10.2217/cer.12.65
PMID: 24236515 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. J Comp Eff Res. 2013 May;2(3):325-34. doi: 10.2217/cer.13.15.

Is a comparative clinical trial for breast cancer tumor markers to monitor 
disease recurrence warranted? A value of information analysis.

Thariani R(1), Henry NL, Ramsey SD, Blough DK, Barlow B, Gralow JR, Veenstra DL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, University of Washington, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer tumor markers are used by some clinicians to screen 
for disease recurrence risk. Since there is limited evidence of benefit, 
additional research may be warranted.
AIM: To assess the potential value of a randomized clinical trial of breast 
tumor marker testing in routine follow-up of high-risk, stage II-III breast 
cancer survivors.
MATERIALS & METHODS: We developed a decision-analytic model of tumor marker 
testing plus standard surveillance every 3-6 months for 5 years. The expected 
value of sample information was calculated using probabilistic simulations and 
was a function of: the probability of selecting the optimal monitoring strategy 
with current versus future information; the impact of choosing the nonoptimal 
strategy; and the size of the population affected.
RESULTS: The value of information for a randomized clinical trial involving 9000 
women was US$214 million compared with a cost of US$30-60 million to conduct 
such a trial. The probability of making an alternate, nonoptimal decision and 
choosing testing versus no testing was 32% with current versus future 
information from the trial. The impact of a nonoptimal decision was US$2150 and 
size of population impacted over 10 years was 308,000. The value of improved 
information on overall survival was US$105 million, quality of life US$37 
million and test performance US$71 million.
CONCLUSION: Conducting a randomized clinical trial of breast cancer tumor 
markers appears to offer a good societal return on investment. Retrospective 
analyses to assess test performance and evaluation of patient quality of life 
using tumor markers may also offer valuable areas of research. However, 
alternative investments may offer even better returns in investments and, as 
such, the trial concept deserves further study as part of an overall 
research-portfolio evaluation.

DOI: 10.2217/cer.13.15
PMCID: PMC4018420
PMID: 24236631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Financial & competing interests disclosure The 
authors have no other relevant affiliations or financial involvement with any 
organization or entity with a financial interest in or financial conflict with 
the subject matter or materials discussed in the manuscript apart from those 
disclosed. No writing assistance was utilized in the production of this 
manuscript.


538. Diabet Med. 2014 Mar;31(3):e16-9. doi: 10.1111/dme.12359.

The effects of antipsychotic switching on diabetes in chronic schizophrenia.

Arnoldy R(1), Curtis J, Samaras K.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes and Obesity Program, Garvan Institute of Medical Research, 
Darlinghurst, NSW Australia.

BACKGROUND: People with severe mental illness have a 20-year life-expectancy 
shortfall. The majority of antipsychotic medications are associated with obesity 
and heightened diabetes risk. People with severe mental illness less frequently 
achieve benchmarked diabetes care, often attributed to poor adherence, lower 
clinical attendance and documented medical biases in treatment. This case is 
presented to highlight the profound effect medication change can have on 
diabetes control.
CASE REPORT: A 56-year-old man with a 42-year history of schizophrenia had 
required clozapine treatment for the preceding 14 years. Type 2 diabetes and 
obesity occurred within 4 years of clozapine instigation. Glycaemic control had 
been continuously poor, despite frequent contact with diabetes services and 
multiple medications, including insulin at a dose exceeding 200 IU daily. 
Request for consideration of antipsychotic review and close interaction with the 
psychiatry team was initiated at the diabetes outpatient clinic. A gradual 
medication switch from clozapine to aripiprazole was associated with a reduction 
in HbA(1c) from 80 to 50 mmol/mol (9.5 to 6.7%) over 4 months, associated with a 
weight loss of 10 kg. Over the ensuing 2 years, the improvement in HbA(1c) has 
endured, with total weight loss of 13 kg and halving of insulin requirements.
CONCLUSION: This case illustrates the benefits of engagement between 
endocrinologists and psychiatrists to achieve the shared goal of improved 
physical health in severe mental illness. Greater interdisciplinary 
collaboration will help bridge the life-expectancy gap in severe mental illness 
and may assist in preventing disabling diabetes complications in this vulnerable 
patient group.

© 2013 The Authors. Diabetic Medicine © 2013 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/dme.12359
PMID: 24236701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Pharm Pat Anal. 2012 Sep;1(4):427-35. doi: 10.4155/ppa.12.47.

Patent term extensions: issues, challenges and implications for pharmaceuticals.

Clark L(1), Beadle D.

Author information:
(1)Griffith Hack IP, Level 10, 161 Collins Street, Melbourne, VIC 3000, 
Australia.

The standard term of a patent is 20 years from the date of filing. However, the 
time required for a pharmaceutical product to pass through research and 
development, and clinical trials to obtain regulatory approval can often be more 
than 10 years. This effectively shortens the life of the patent leaving the 
patentee with little or no monopoly over the pharmaceutical product by the time 
it reaches market. The solution to this loss of patent monopoly in many 
countries is to provide an extension to compensate for loss of patent term due 
to obtaining regulatory approval of a product. This article provides a summary 
of some of the issues, challenges and implications of patent term extensions in 
various countries.

DOI: 10.4155/ppa.12.47
PMID: 24236881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Expert Rev Neurother. 2013 Dec;13(12):1371-82. doi: 
10.1586/14737175.2013.861741.

Increasing awareness of sudden unexpected death in epilepsy.

Malik GA(1), Smith PE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, University Hospital of Wales, Cardiff, Heath Park, 
Cardiff CF14 4XW, UK.

Epilepsy affects about 1 in 130 people in the UK and most have a normal life 
expectancy. Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) is a - probably 
heterogeneous - condition where patients with epilepsy die suddenly, almost 
certainly during a seizure and with no other identified cause of death. The 
mechanism(s) of SUDEP remain uncertain, but with a growing international 
scientific interest, there is reason to be optimistic that eventually most of 
the likely several causes will be identified. Increasing awareness of SUDEP has 
generated efforts to understand the underlying pathophysiology of SUDEP better 
to direct the search for effective preventative measures. This review addresses 
the epidemiology of SUDEP, its possible underlying mechanisms, risk factors, 
clinical implications and future directions for research.

DOI: 10.1586/14737175.2013.861741
PMID: 24236903 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. J Comp Eff Res. 2012 Mar;1(2):171-80. doi: 10.2217/cer.12.8.

Tying comparative effectiveness information to decision-making and the future of 
comparative effectiveness research designs: the case for antipsychotic drugs.

Basu A(1), Meltzer HY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services, PORPP, University of Washington, 1959 NE 
Pacific St, Box-357660, Seattle, WA 98195-7660, USA. basua@uw.edu.

The outcome of comparative effectiveness research on antipsychotic drugs, 
specifically the National Institute of Mental Health-funded CATIE trial, has 
raised questions regarding the value of second-generation antipsychotic drugs 
and has sparked a debate regarding their accessibility through public insurance. 
We reviewed the evidence on the impact of access restrictions for antipsychotic 
drugs in Medicaid programs and found that such restrictions resulted in 
increases in overall costs and a possible decline in the quality of care. We 
attribute this unwanted outcome to limitations in comparative effectiveness 
research designs that fail to inform either clinical or policy decision-making. 
We enumerate these limitations and illustrate the potential for more innovative 
comparative effectiveness research designs that may be in line with clinical 
decision-making using an original analysis of the CATIE trial data. The value of 
genomic information in enabling better trial design is also discussed.

DOI: 10.2217/cer.12.8
PMCID: PMC4237158
PMID: 24237376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Suicide Life Threat Behav. 2014 Apr;44(2):175-87. doi: 10.1111/sltb.12060.
Epub  2013 Nov 16.

Hope and the interpersonal-psychological theory of suicidal behavior: 
replication and extension of prior findings.

Anestis MD(1), Moberg FB, Arnau RC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, University of Southern Mississippi, Hattiesburg, 
MS, USA.

The interpersonal-psychological theory of suicidal behavior (IPTS; Joiner, 2005) 
posits that suicidal behavior occurs when an individual has a desire for death 
(due to the combination of perceived burdensomeness and thwarted belongingness) 
in addition to an acquired capacity for suicide, which is present when the 
individual has a low fear of death and high pain tolerance. Previous research 
has demonstrated an expected negative relation between trait hope and perceived 
burdensomeness and thwarted belongingness, as well as a more perplexing finding 
that hope is positively associated with the acquired capability. In a sample of 
230 college students, measures of the three components of the IPTS were 
administered, along with measures of hope, depression, and painful and/or 
provocative events. Hierarchical regression analyses replicated the previously 
found associations between hope and burdensomeness and belongingness while 
controlling for depression and demographic variables. The positive association 
between hope and acquired capacity was also replicated, but a mediation analysis 
demonstrated that the effect was statistically accounted for by distress 
tolerance. The results further support the incremental validity of hope as a 
consideration in suicide risk assessments and suggest that hope may serve as a 
protective factor with respect to suicidal desire.

© 2013 The American Association of Suicidology.

DOI: 10.1111/sltb.12060
PMID: 24237390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Telemed J E Health. 2014 Jan;20(1):18-23. doi: 10.1089/tmj.2013.0080. Epub
2013  Nov 15.

Mobile health is worth it! Economic benefit and impact on health of a 
population-based mobile screening program in new Mexico.

Brown-Connolly NE(1), Concha JB, English J.

Author information:
