cardiovascular events. Since very high low-density lipoprotein cholesterol might 
increase the likelihood of benefit from statins in a dialysis patient, patients 
who meet this criterion may be more inclined to receive a statin. Other factors 
that might influence a patient's decision to receive statins could include more 
severe comorbidity or higher current pill burden-both favoring 
non-treatment--and recent myocardial infarction or greater life expectancy-both 
favoring treatment. The latter may be especially true for dialysis patients in 
Japan.

DOI: 10.1007/s10157-013-0888-3
PMID: 24165684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. J Invest Dermatol. 2014 Jun;134(6):1527-1534. doi: 10.1038/jid.2013.446.
Epub  2013 Oct 28.

The global burden of skin disease in 2010: an analysis of the prevalence and 
impact of skin conditions.

Hay RJ(1), Johns NE(2), Williams HC(3), Bolliger IW(2), Dellavalle RP(4), 
Margolis DJ(5), Marks R(6), Naldi L(7), Weinstock MA(8), Wulf SK(2), Michaud 
C(9), J L Murray C(2), Naghavi M(2).

Author information:
(1)International Foundation for Dermatology, London, UK. Electronic address: 
roderick.hay@ifd.org.
(2)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Washington, USA.
(3)Centre of Evidence Based Dermatology, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, 
UK.
(4)Dermatology Service, Denver VA Medical Center, Denver, Colorado, USA.
(5)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology and Department of Dermatology, 
University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania, USA.
(6)Skin and Cancer Foundation, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(7)Department of Dermatology, Azienda Ospedaliera Papa Giovanni XXIII, Bergamo, 
Italy.
(8)Division of Dermatoepidemiology, Brown University, Providence, Rhode Island, 
USA.
(9)China Medical Board, Cambridge, Massachusetts, USA.

Comment in
    J Invest Dermatol. 2014 Jun;134(6):1499-501.

The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study 2010 estimated the GBD attributable to 
15 categories of skin disease from 1990 to 2010 for 187 countries. For each of 
the following diseases, we performed systematic literature reviews and analyzed 
resulting data: eczema, psoriasis, acne vulgaris, pruritus, alopecia areata, 
decubitus ulcer, urticaria, scabies, fungal skin diseases, impetigo, abscess, 
and other bacterial skin diseases, cellulitis, viral warts, molluscum 
contagiosum, and non-melanoma skin cancer. We used disability estimates to 
determine nonfatal burden. Three skin conditions, fungal skin diseases, other 
skin and subcutaneous diseases, and acne were in the top 10 most prevalent 
diseases worldwide in 2010, and eight fell into the top 50; these additional 
five skin problems were pruritus, eczema, impetigo, scabies, and molluscum 
contagiosum. Collectively, skin conditions ranged from the 2nd to 11th leading 
cause of years lived with disability at the country level. At the global level, 
skin conditions were the fourth leading cause of nonfatal disease burden. Using 
more data than has been used previously, the burden due to these diseases is 
enormous in both high- and low-income countries. These results argue strongly to 
include skin disease prevention and treatment in future global health strategies 
as a matter of urgency.

DOI: 10.1038/jid.2013.446
PMID: 24166134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


395. Nat Rev Urol. 2013 Dec;10(12):713-22. doi: 10.1038/nrurol.2013.230. Epub
2013  Oct 29.

Urological aspects of HIV and AIDS.

Heyns CF(1), Smit SG, van der Merwe A, Zarrabi AD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Stellenbosch University and Tygerberg Hospital, 
Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, PO Box 19063, Tygerberg 7505, South 
Africa.

The use of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in HIV-infected people 
has led to a dramatic decrease in the incidence of opportunistic infections and 
virus-related malignancies such as non-Hodgkin lymphoma and Kaposi sarcoma, but 
not cervical or anal cancer. Advanced-stage cervical cancer is associated with a 
high incidence of urological complications such as hydronephrosis, renal 
failure, and vesicovaginal fistula. Adult male circumcison can significantly 
reduce the risk of male HIV acquisition. Although HAART does not completely 
eradicate HIV, compliance with medication increases life expectancy. HIV 
infection or treatment can result in renal failure, which can be managed with 
dialysis and transplantation (as for HIV-negative patients). Although treatment 
for erectile dysfunction--including phosphodiesterase 5 inhibitors, 
intracavernosal injection therapy, and penile prosthesis--can increase the risk 
of HIV transmission, treatment decisions for men with erectile dysfunction 
should not be determined by HIV status. The challenges faced when administering 
chemotherapy to HIV-infected patients with cancer include late presentation, 
immunodeficiency, drug interactions, and adverse effects associated with 
compounded medications. Nonetheless, HIV-infected patients should receive the 
same cancer treatment as HIV-negative patients. The urologist is increasingly 
likely to encounter HIV-positive patients who present with the same urological 
problems as the general population, because HAART confers a prolonged life 
expectancy. Performing surgery in an HIV-infected individual raises safety 
issues for both the patient (if severely immunocompromised) and the surgeon, but 
the risk of HIV transmission from patients on fully suppressive HAART is small.

DOI: 10.1038/nrurol.2013.230
PMID: 24166342 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Trans Am Ophthalmol Soc. 2013 Sep;111:56-69.

Cost-effectiveness of bevacizumab and ranibizumab for newly diagnosed 
neovascular macular degeneration (an American Ophthalmological Society thesis).

Stein JD(1), Newman-Casey PA, Mrinalini T, Lee PP, Hutton DW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology and Visual Sciences (Dr Stein, Dr Newman-Casey, 
Dr Lee) and the Department of Health Management and Policy (Ms Mrinalini, Dr 
Hutton), University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.

PURPOSE: To determine the most cost-effective treatment for patients with newly 
diagnosed neovascular macular degeneration: monthly or as-needed bevacizumab 
injections, or monthly or as-needed ranibizumab injections.
METHODS: Using a Markov model with a 20-year time horizon, we compared the 
incremental cost-effectiveness of treating a hypothetical cohort of 80-year-old 
patients with newly diagnosed neovascular macular degeneration using monthly 
bevacizumab, as-needed bevacizumab, monthly ranibizumab, or as-needed 
ranibizumab. Data came from the Comparison of Age-Related Macular Degeneration 
Treatment Trial (CATT), the Medicare Fee Schedules, and the medical literature.
RESULTS: Compared with as-needed bevacizumab, the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of monthly bevacizumab is $242,357 per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). 
Monthly ranibizumab gains an additional 0.02 QALYs vs monthly bevacizumab at an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of more than $10 million per QALY. 
As-needed ranibizumab was dominated by monthly bevacizumab. In sensitivity 
analyses assuming a willingness to pay of $100,000 per QALY, the annual risk of 
serious vascular events would have to be at least 2.5 times higher with 
bevacizumab than that observed in the CATT trial for as-needed ranibizumab to 
have an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of <$100,000 per QALY. In another 
sensitivity analysis, even if every patient receiving bevacizumab experienced 
declining vision by one category (eg, from 20/25-20/40 to 20/50-20/80) after 2 
years but all patients receiving ranibizumab retained their vision level, 
as-needed ranibizumab would have an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$97,340 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: Even after considering the potential for differences in risks of 
serious adverse events and therapeutic effectiveness, bevacizumab confers 
considerably greater value than ranibizumab for the treatment of neovascular 
macular degeneration.

PMCID: PMC3797829
PMID: 24167325 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. PLoS One. 2013 Oct 22;8(10):e78451. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078451. 
eCollection 2013.

The interactive effects of transgenically overexpressed 1Ax1 with various HMW-GS 
combinations on dough quality by introgression of exogenous subunits into an 
elite Chinese Wheat variety.

Mao X(1), Li Y, Zhao S, Zhang J, Lei Q, Meng D, Ma F, Hu W, Chen M, Chang J, 
Wang Y, Yang G, He G.

Author information:
(1)The Genetic Engineering International Cooperation Base of Chinese Ministry of 
Science and Technology, Chinese National Center of Plant Gene Research (Wuhan) 
HUST Part, The Key Laboratory of Molecular Biophysics of Chinese Ministry of 
Education, College of Life Science and Technology, Huazhong University of 
Science & Technology (HUST), Wuhan, China.

Seed storage proteins in wheat endosperm, particularly high-molecular-weight 
glutenin subunits (HMW-GS), are primary determinants of dough properties, and 
affect both end-use quality and grain utilization of wheat (Triticum aestivum 
L). In order to investigate the interactive effects between the transgenically 
overexpressed 1Ax1 subunit with different HMW-GS on dough quality traits, we 
developed a set of 8 introgression lines (ILs) overexpressing the transgenic 
HMW-glutenin subunit 1Ax1 by introgression of this transgene from transgenic 
line B102-1-2/1 into an elite Chinese wheat variety Chuanmai107 (C107), using 
conventional crossing and backcrossing breeding technique. The donor C107 strain 
lacks 1Ax1 but contains the HMW-GS pairs 1Dx2+1Dy12 and 1Bx7+1By9. The resultant 
ILs showed robust and stable expression of 1Ax1 even after five generations of 
self-pollination, and crossing/backcrossing three times. In addition, 
overexpression of 1Ax1 was compensated by the endogenous gluten proteins. All 
ILs exhibited superior agronomic performance when compared to the transgenic 
parent line, B102-1-2/1. Mixograph results demonstrated that overexpressed 1Ax1 
significantly improved dough strength, resistance to extension and over-mixing 
tolerance, in the targeted wheat cultivar C107. Further, comparisons among the 
ILs showed the interactive effects of endogenous subunits on dough properties 
when 1Ax1 was overexpressed: subunit pair 17+18 contributed to increased 
over-mixing tolerance of the dough; expression of the Glu-D1 allele maintained 
an appropriate balance between x-type and y-type subunits and thereby improved 
dough quality. It is consistent with ILs C4 (HMW-GS are 1, 17+18, 2+12) had the 
highest gluten index and Zeleny sedimentation value. This study demonstrates 
that wheat quality could be improved by using transgenic wheat overexpressing 
HMW-GS and the feasibility of using such transgenic lines in wheat quality 
breeding programs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0078451
PMCID: PMC3805546
PMID: 24167625 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


398. Harefuah. 2013 Aug;152(8):477-80, 498.

[HIV testing: the medical laboratory role in HIV diagnosis and monitoring].

[Article in Hebrew]

Grossman Z(1), Kra-Oz Z.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Sackler Faculty of Medicine, Tel Aviv University. 
zehava.grossman@gmail.com

Diagnosis of HIV infection is performed via enzyme immunoassay (EIA), an assay 
based on screening for antibodies against HIV. Confirmation of diagnosis is 
performed by Western-Blot, a more specific assay directed at a number of viral 
proteins for which antibodies exist. Routine follow-up of HIV-infected 
individuals includes measurement of CD4 cell count to evaluate the immune 
status, of viral load to assess virus replication, and of changes in the viral 
genome to characterize resistance to drugs and tropism. In addition, absence of 
the HLA B*57:01 allele is verified before prescription of abacavir, and drug 
levels of protease-inhibitors are determined in treatment-failing individuals 
after ruling out other causes of failure. Rapid diagnosis and regular follow-up 
improve the quality of life of patients and extend their life expectancy, also 
helping to control the spread of the epidemic at the national level.

PMID: 24167934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Bioconjug Chem. 2013 Nov 20;24(11):1955-66. doi: 10.1021/bc4004102. Epub
2013  Nov 11.

Orthogonal assembly of a designed ankyrin repeat protein-cytotoxin conjugate 
with a clickable serum albumin module for half-life extension.

Simon M(1), Frey R, Zangemeister-Wittke U, Plückthun A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zurich , Winterthurerstrasse 190, 
CH-8057 Zurich, Switzerland.

The generation of drug conjugates for safe and effective tumor targeting 
requires binding proteins tolerant to functionalization by rational engineering. 
Here, we show that Designed Ankyrin Repeat Proteins (DARPins), a novel class of 
binding proteins not derived from antibodies, can be used as building blocks for 
facile orthogonal assembly of bioconjugates for tumor targeting with tailored 
properties. DARPin Ec1, which targets the Epithelial Cell Adhesion Molecule 
(EpCAM), was genetically modified with a C-terminal cysteine for conjugation of 
the small molecule cytotoxin monomethylauristatin F (MMAF). In addition, it was 
N-terminally functionalized by metabolic introduction of the non-natural amino 
acid azidohomoalanine to enable linkage of site-specifically 
dibenzocyclooctyne-modified mouse serum albumin (MSA) for half-life extension 
using Cu(I)-free click chemistry. The conjugate MSA-Ec1-MMAF was assembled to 
obtain high yields of a pure and stable drug conjugate as confirmed by various 
analytical methods and in functional assays. The orthogonality of the assembly 
led to a defined reaction product and preserved the functional properties of all 
modules, including EpCAM-specific binding and internalization, FcRn binding 
mediated by MSA, and cytotoxic potency. Linkage of MMAF to the DARPin increased 
receptor-specific uptake of the drug while decreasing nonspecific uptake, and 
further coupling of the conjugate to MSA enhanced this effect. In mice, albumin 
conjugation increased the serum half-life from 11 min to 17.4 h, resulting in a 
more than 22-fold increase in the area-under-the-curve (AUC). Our data 
demonstrate the promise of the DARPin format for facile modular assembly of drug 
conjugates with improved pharmacokinetic performance for tumor targeting.

DOI: 10.1021/bc4004102
PMID: 24168270 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Global Health. 2013 Oct 29;9:54. doi: 10.1186/1744-8603-9-54.

Diabetes in Argentina: cost and management of diabetes and its complications and 
challenges for health policy.

Caporale JE, Elgart JF, Gagliardino JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)CENEXA - Centro de Endocrinología Experimental y Aplicada (UNLP - CONICET La 
Plata, PAHO/WHO Collaborating Centre for Diabetes), Facultad de Ciencias Médicas 
UNLP, La Plata, Argentina. direccion@cenexa.org.

BACKGROUND: Diabetes is an expensive disease in Argentina as well as worldwide, 
and its prevalence is continuously rising affecting the quality of life of 
people with the disease and their life expectancy. It also imposes a heavy 
burden to the national health care budget and on the economy in the form of 
productivity losses.
AIMS: To review and discuss a) the reported evidence on diabetes prevalence, the 
degree of control, the cost of care and outcomes, b) available strategies to 
decrease the health and economic disease burden, and c) how the disease fits in 
the Argentinian health care system and policy. Finally, to propose 
evidence-based policy options to reduce the burden of diabetes, both from an 
epidemiological as well as an economic perspective, on the Argentinian society. 
The evidence presented is expected to help the local authorities to develop and 
implement effective diabetes care programmes.
METHODOLOGY: A comprehensive literature review was performed using databases 
such as MEDLINE, EMBASE and LILACS (Latin American and Caribbean Health 
Sciences). Literature published from 1980 to 2011 was included. This information 
was complemented with grey literature, including data from national and 
provincial official sources, personal communications and contacts with health 
authorities and diabetes experts in Argentina.
RESULTS: Overall diabetes prevalence increased from 8.4% in 2005 to 9.6% 2009 at 
national level. In 2009, diabetes was the seventh leading cause of death with a 
mortality rate of 19.2 per 100,000 inhabitants, and it accounted for 1,328,802 
DALYs lost in the adult population, mainly affecting women aged over fifty. The 
per capita hospitalisation cost for people with diabetes was significantly 
higher than for people without the disease, US$ 1,628 vs. US$ 833 in 2004. 
Evidence shows that implementation of combined educative interventions improved 
quality of care and outcomes, decreased treatment costs and optimised the use of 
economic resources.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the evidence reviewed, we believe that the implementation 
of structured health care programmes including diabetes education at every 
level, could improve quality of care as well as its clinical, metabolic and 
economic outcomes. If implemented across the country, these programmes could 
decrease the disease burden and optimise the use of human and economic 
resources.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-8603-9-54
PMCID: PMC3826662
PMID: 24168330 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2013 Oct 29;11:184. doi:
10.1186/1477-7525-11-184.

The CONSORT Patient-Reported Outcome (PRO) extension: implications for clinical 
trials and practice.

Calvert M, Brundage M, Jacobsen PB, Schünemann HJ, Efficace F(1).

Author information:
(1)Head, Health Outcomes Research Unit, Italian Group for Adult Hematologic 
Diseases (GIMEMA), GIMEMA Data Center, Via Benevento, 6, 00161 Rome, Italy. 
f.efficace@gimema.it.

To inform clinical guidelines and patient care we need high quality evidence on 
the relative benefits and harms of intervention. Patient reported outcome (PRO) 
data from clinical trials can "empower patients to make decisions based on their 
values" and "level the playing field between physician and patient". While 
clinicians have a good understanding of the concept of health-related quality of 
life and other PROs, evidence suggests that many do not feel comfortable in 
using the data from trials to inform discussions with patients and clinical 
practice. This may in part reflect concerns over the integrity of the data and 
difficulties in interpreting the results arising from poor reporting.The new 
CONSORT PRO extension aims to improve the reporting of PROs in trials to 
facilitate the use of results to inform clinical practice and health policy. 
While the CONSORT PRO extension is an important first step in the process, we 
need broader engagement with the guidance to facilitate optimal reporting and 
maximize use of PRO data in a clinical setting. Endorsement by journal editors, 
authors and peer reviewers are crucial steps. Improved design, implementation 
and transparent reporting of PROs in clinical trials are necessary to provide 
high quality evidence to inform evidence synthesis and clinical practice 
guidelines.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-11-184
PMCID: PMC3842645
PMID: 24168680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


402. Pharmacogenet Genomics. 2014 Jan;24(1):6-14. doi:
10.1097/FPC.0000000000000014.

Pharmacogenetic-guided selection of warfarin versus novel oral anticoagulants 
for stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

You JH(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Pharmacoeconomics Research, School of Pharmacy, Faculty of 
Medicine, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China SAR.

OBJECTIVES: To compare clinical and economic outcomes of two anticoagulation 
therapy strategies, (i) pharmacogenetic-guided selection (PG-AC) of warfarin 
versus novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs), and (ii) usual anticoagulation care 
(usual AC) in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF), from the perspective of US 
healthcare payers.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to simulate long-term outcomes in a 
hypothetical cohort of 65-year-old patients with newly diagnosed AF: (i) all 
usual AC patients received warfarin therapy, and (ii) all PG-AC patients were 
genotyped. Patients with normal warfarin sensitivity genotypes would receive 
warfarin. Patients with high or low warfarin sensitivity genotypes would receive 
NOAC. Model inputs were derived from clinical trials published in the 
literature. The outcome measure was incremental cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained (ICER).
RESULTS: PG-AC gained higher QALYs with higher cost (9.912 QALYs and USD94 396) 
when compared with usual AC (9.721 QALYs and USD93 853) in base-case analysis. 
The ICER of PG-AC was 2843 USD/QALY. The ICER of PG-AC would exceed 50 000 
USD/QALY if the monthly cost of NOAC was more than USD285 or the risk of stroke 
with NOAC versus warfarin was more than 0.93. In 10 000 Monte Carlo simulations, 
PG-AC was cost-effective 96.4% of the time and usual AC was cost-effective 3.6% 
of the time. PG-AC was more costly than usual AC with a mean cost difference of 
USD1927 (95% confidence interval 1.877-1.977, P<0.001), and gained higher QALYs 
by 0.209 (95% confidence interval 0.208-0.210, P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Compared with warfarin therapy with time in therapeutic range of 
60%, using genotype to triage AF patients to warfarin or NOAC appears to be 
highly cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1097/FPC.0000000000000014
PMID: 24168919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Actas Urol Esp. 2014 May;38(4):217-23. doi: 10.1016/j.acuro.2013.09.007.
Epub  2013 Oct 27.

Optimizing prostate cancer screening; prospective randomized controlled study of 
the role of PSA and PCA3 testing in a sequential manner in an opportunistic 
screening program.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Rubio-Briones J(1), Casanova J(2), Dumont R(2), Rubio L(3), Fernandez-Serra 
A(3), Casanova-Salas I(3), Domínguez-Escrig J(2), Ramírez-Backhaus M(2), Collado 
A(2), Gómez-Ferrer A(2), Iborra I(2), Monrós JL(2), Ricós JV(2), Solsona E(2), 
Salas D(4), Martínez F(5), Lopez-Guerrero JA(3).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Urología, Fundación Instituto Valenciano de Oncología, Valencia, 
España. Electronic address: jrubio@fivo.org.
(2)Servicio de Urología, Fundación Instituto Valenciano de Oncología, Valencia, 
España.
(3)Laboratorio de Biología Molecular, Fundación Instituto Valenciano de 
Oncología, Valencia, España.
(4)Departamento de Salud Pública, Consellería de Sanidad, Generalitat 
Valenciana, Valencia, España.
(5)Departamento de Bioestadística, Universidad de Valencia, Valencia, España.

OBJECTIVES: To reduce unnecessary biopsies (Bx) in an opportunistic screening 
programme of prostate cancer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: We perform a prospective evaluation of PCA3 as a second 
line biomarker in an opportunistic screening for prostate cancer (PCa). From 
September-2010 until September-2012, 2,366 men, aged 40-74 years and with >10 
years life expectancy, were initially screened with PSA/digital rectal 
examination (DRE). Men with previous Bx or with recent urine infections were 
excluded. Men with abnormal DRE and/or PSA >3 ng/ml were submitted for PCA3. All 
men with PCA3 ≥ 35 underwent an initial biopsy (IBx) -12cores-. Men with PCA3 < 
35 were randomized 1:1 to either IBx or observation. Re-biopsy(16-18 cores) 
criteria were PSA increase >.5 ng/ml at 4-6 months or PSAv > .75 ng/ml/year.
RESULTS: With median follow-up (FU) of 10.1 months, PCA3 was performed in 
321/2366 men (13.57%), 289 at first visit and 32 during FU. All 110 PCA3+ men 
(34.3%) were biopsied and PCa was identified in 43 men in IBx (39.1%). In the 
randomized arm, 110 were observed and 101 underwent biopsy, finding 12 PCa 
(11.9%), showing a statistically significant reduction of PCa detection rate in 
this cohort (P<.001). Global PCa detection rates were 40.9% and 9.5% for the 
PCA3+ and PCA3- branches, respectively (P<.001). Area under the curve for PSA 
and PCA3 were .601 and .74, respectively. This is an ongoing prospective study 
limited by its short follow-up period and still limited enrolment.
CONCLUSIONS: PCA3 as a second line biomarker within an opportunistic dual 
screening protocol, can potentially avoid 65.7% and 50.1% biopsies at first 
round and at median FU of 10.1 months, respectively, just missing around 3.2% of 
high grade PCa.

Copyright © 2013 AEU. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.acuro.2013.09.007
PMID: 24169211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2013 Dec 16;21(1):17-25. doi: 10.1530/ERC-13-0415.
Print  2014 Feb.

Long-term prognosis of patients with pediatric pheochromocytoma.

Bausch B(1), Wellner U, Bausch D, Schiavi F, Barontini M, Sanso G, Walz MK, 
Peczkowska M, Weryha G, Dall'igna P, Cecchetto G, Bisogno G, Moeller LC, 
Bockenhauer D, Patocs A, Rácz K, Zabolotnyi D, Yaremchuk S, Dzivite-Krisane I, 
Castinetti F, Taieb D, Malinoc A, von Dobschuetz E, Roessler J, Schmid KW, 
Opocher G, Eng C, Neumann HP.

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany 
Department of Surgery, University Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, Campus Luebeck, 
Luebeck, Germany Department of Medicine, Familial Cancer Clinic and 
Oncoendocrinology, University of Padova, Padova, Italy Center for 
Endocrinological Investigations (CEDIE), Hospital de Ninos R. Gutierrez, Buenos 
Aires, Argentina Department of Surgery, Center of Minimally Invasive Surgery, 
Kliniken Essen-Mitte, Essen, Germany Department of Hypertension, Institute of 
Cardiology, Warsaw, Poland Department of Endocrinology, University of Lorraine, 
Nancy, France Division of Pediatric Surgery, Department of Pediatrics, 
University Hospital of Padova, Padova, Italy Pediatric Oncology, Division of 
Hematology and Oncology, Department of Pediatrics, University Hospital of 
Padova, Padova, Italy Department of Endocrinology, University Medical Center, 
University of Duisburg and Essen, Essen, Germany Department of Pediatrics, 
Hospital Great Ormond Street, London, UK 2nd Department of Internal Medicine, 
Semmelweis University, Budapest, Hungary Institute of Otorhinolaryngology, NAMS 
of Ukraine, Kiev, Ukraine Department of Endocrinology, University of Riga, Riga, 
Latvia Department of Endocrinology, La Timone Hospital, Aix-Marseille 
University, Marseille, France Department of Nuclear Medicine, University 
Hospital Timone, Marseilles, France Section for Preventive Medicine, Department 
of Nephrology and General Medicine, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany 
Department of Visceral Surgery, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany 
Department of Pediatrics, University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany Department 
of Pathology, University Medical Center, University of Duisburg and Essen, 
Essen, Germany Genomic Medicine Institute, Lerner Research Institute and Taussig 
Cancer Institute, Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, Ohio, USA.

A third of patients with paraganglial tumors, pheochromocytoma, and 
paraganglioma, carry germline mutations in one of the susceptibility genes, RET, 
VHL, NF1, SDHAF2, SDHA, SDHB, SDHC, SDHD, TMEM127, and MAX. Despite increasing 
importance, data for long-term prognosis are scarce in pediatric presentations. 
The European-American-Pheochromocytoma-Paraganglioma-Registry, with a total of 
2001 patients with confirmed paraganglial tumors, was the platform for this 
study. Molecular genetic and phenotypic classification and assessment of 
gene-specific long-term outcome with second and/or malignant paraganglial tumors 
and life expectancy were performed in patients diagnosed at <18 years. Of 177 
eligible registrants, 80% had mutations, 49% VHL, 15% SDHB, 10% SDHD, 4% NF1, 
and one patient each in RET, SDHA, and SDHC. A second primary paraganglial tumor 
developed in 38% with increasing frequency over time, reaching 50% at 30 years 
after initial diagnosis. Their prevalence was associated with hereditary disease 
(P=0.001), particularly in VHL and SDHD mutation carriers (VHL vs others, 
P=0.001 and SDHD vs others, P=0.042). A total of 16 (9%) patients with 
hereditary disease had malignant tumors, ten at initial diagnosis and another 
six during follow-up. The highest prevalence was associated with SDHB (SDHB vs 
others, P<0.001). Eight patients died (5%), all of whom had germline mutations. 
Mean life expectancy was 62 years with hereditary disease. Hereditary disease 
and the underlying germline mutation define the long-term prognosis of pediatric 
patients in terms of prevalence and time of second primaries, malignant 
transformation, and survival. Based on these data, gene-adjusted, specific 
surveillance guidelines can help effective preventive medicine.

DOI: 10.1530/ERC-13-0415
PMID: 24169644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. Herz. 2013 Dec;38(8):828-37. doi: 10.1007/s00059-013-3975-z.

[ESC guidelines on the management of valvular heart disease. What has changed 
and what is new?].

[Article in German]

Mangner N(1), Schuler G.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin/ Kardiologie, Herzzentrum Leipzig - 
Universitätsklinik, Strümpellstr. 39, 04289, Leipzig, Deutschland.

In 2012 the new and collaborative "Guidelines on the management of valvular 
heart disease (version 2012)" were published by the European Society of 
Cardiology (ESC) and the European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery 
(EACTS). These guidelines emphasize that decision-making in patients with 
valvular heart disease should ideally be carried out by a"heart team" with 
particular expertise in valvular heart disease. In aortic regurgitation 
pathologies of the aortic root are frequent and in patients with Marfan 
syndrome, surgery is indicated when the maximal ascending aortic diameter is 
≥50 mm, while the threshold for intervention should be lower in patients with 
risk factors for progression. Regarding aortic stenosis, transcatheter aortic 
valve implantation (TAVI) should be performed only in hospitals with on-site 
cardiac surgery and with a"heart team" available to assess patient risks. The 
TAVI procedure is indicated in patients with severe symptomatic aortic stenosis 
who are judged by the"heart team" to be unsuitable for surgery but have 
sufficient life expectancy. It should be considered for high-risk patients with 
severe symptomatic aortic stenosis based on the individual risk profile assessed 
by the"heart team". Furthermore, low flow - low gradient aortic stenosis with 
normal ejection fraction and the difficult topic of asymptomatic severe aortic 
stenosis and the indications for aortic valve replacement are discussed. With 
respect to mitral regurgitation, valve repair should be the preferred technique 
when it is expected to be durable. The topics of asymptomatic mitral 
regurgitation as well as percutaneous mitral valve repair using the edge to edge 
technique as an alternative for high risk patients are discussed. Tricuspid 
disease should not be forgotten and during left-sided valve surgery, tricuspid 
valve surgery should be considered in the presence of mild to moderate secondary 
regurgitation if there is significant annular dilatation. Last but not least, in 
patients with aortic bioprostheses the use of low-dose aspirin is now favored 
for a 3-month postoperative period.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-013-3975-z
PMID: 24169934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Jan;99(1):126-32. doi: 10.1210/jc.2013-2502.
Epub  2013 Dec 20.

24-month use of once-weekly GH, LB03002, in prepubertal children with GH 
deficiency.

Khadilkar V(1), Radjuk KA, Bolshova E, Khadgawat R, El Kholy M, Desai M, 
Peterkova V, Mericq V, Kratzsch J, Siepl EC, Martin D, Lopez P, Ji HJ, Bae YJ, 
Lee JH, Saenger PH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Endocrinology (V.K.), Jehangir Hospital, Pune 
411004, India; Second Children's Hospital (K.A.R.), Minsk 220020, Belarus; 
Institute of Endocrinology and Metabolism (E.B.), Academy of Medical Sciences, 
Kiev 04114, Ukraine; Department of Endocrinology (R.K.), All India Institute of 
Medial Sciences, New Delhi 110029, India; Department of Pediatrics (M.E.K.), Ain 
Shams University, Cairo 12311, Egypt; Sir Hurkisondas Nurrotumdas Hospital and 
Research Centre (M.D.), Mumbai 400004, India; Endocrinological Scientific Center 
(V.P.), Russian Academy of Medical Sciences, Moscow 117036, Russia; Institute of 
Maternal and Child Research (V.M.), Santiago de Chile 8389100, Chile; Institute 
for Laboratory Medicine (J.K.), Leipzig 04103, Germany; Biopartners GmbH 
(E.C.S., D.M., P.L.), Baar 6340, Switzerland; LG Life Sciences Ltd (H.-J.J., 
Y.J.B., J.H.L.), Seoul 110-783, South Korea; and Department of Pediatrics 
(P.H.S.), Winthrop University Hospital, Mineola, New York 11501.

BACKGROUND: Sustained-release GH formulations may provide a strategy for 
improving treatment compliance and persistence in GH-deficient patients.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of the study was to examine efficacy and safety of LB03002, a 
sustained-release GH formulation for once-weekly administration.
DESIGN: We conducted a phase III, 12-month, multinational, randomized, 
open-label, comparator-controlled trial with a 12-month uncontrolled extension.
PATIENTS: Prepubertal GH treatment-naive GH-deficient children (mean age, 7.8 y) 
participated in the study.
INTERVENTION: We administered once-weekly LB03002 (n=91) or daily GH (n=87) for 
1 year, followed by once-weekly LB03002 for all patients for another year 
(LB03002 throughout, n=87; switched to LB03002, n=80).
OUTCOME MEASURES: Height, height velocity (HV), IGF-1, GH antibodies, and 
adverse events were determined throughout. Primary analysis was noninferiority 
of LB03002 vs daily GH at 1 year by analysis of covariance.
RESULTS: Mean±SD HV during year 1 was 11.63±2.60 cm/y with LB03002, and 
11.97±3.09 cm/y with daily GH, with increases from baseline of 8.94±2.91 and 
9.04±3.19 cm/y, respectively. The least square mean HV difference for LB03002 - 
daily GH was -0.43 cm/y (99% confidence interval, -1.45 to 0.60 cm/y). Mean HV 
also remained above baseline in year 2 (8.33±1.92 cm/y in the LB03002 throughout 
group, and 7.28±2.34 cm/y in the switched to LB03002 group). Injection site 
reactions occurred more frequently in LB03002-treated patients but were 
considered mild to moderate in >90% of cases.
CONCLUSIONS: Growth response with once-weekly LB03002 in GH-deficient children 
is comparable to that with daily GH, achieving expected growth rates for 24 
months. Once-weekly LB03002 is a strong candidate for long-term GH replacement 
in GH-deficient children.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2013-2502
PMID: 24170106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2013 Dec;15(12):374. doi: 10.1007/s11926-013-0374-7.

Spondyloarthritis with onset after age 45.

Olivieri I(1), D'Angelo S, Padula A, Leccese P, Palazzi C.

Author information:
(1)Rheumatology Department of Lucania, San Carlo Hospital of Potenza and Madonna 
delle Grazie Hospital of Matera, Potenza, Italy, ignazioolivieri@tiscalinet.it.

The ASAS (Assessment in SpondyloArtrhritis international Society) classification 
criteria for axial and peripheral spondyloarthritis permit to classify patients 
with age at disease onset less than 45 years. Nevertheless, these two forms of 
spondyloarthritis may begin after the age of 45. With the longer duration of the 
life expectancy, patients with this late-onset form of spondyloarthritis may be 
more frequently recognized in the near future. A small percentage (ranging from 
3.5 to 6 %) of patients with axial SpA, as defined by the modified New York 
criteria, have onset of their disease after 45 years of age. Relatively more 
frequent is the late onset form of peripheral spondyloarthritis with the 
characteristics of undifferentiated spondyloarthritis. Its clinical spectrum is 
as broad as it is in children and very young adults. Psoriatic arthritis 
frequently begins over the age of 45 and occasionally after the age of 60. Some 
old studies had suggested than elderly-onset psoriatic arthritis is more severe 
than younger-onset disease, but a recent study found no such difference, and 
further studies are needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s11926-013-0374-7
PMID: 24170254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Hepat Mon. 2013 Aug 14;13(8):e11215. doi: 10.5812/hepatmon.11215.

Liver disease in cystic fibrosis: an update.

Parisi GF(1), Di Dio G, Franzonello C, Gennaro A, Rotolo N, Lionetti E, Leonardi 
S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Pediatric Science, Bronchopneumology and Cystic 
Fibrosis Unit, University of Catania, Catania, Italy.

CONTEXT: Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most widespread autosomal recessive genetic 
disorder that limits life expectation amongst the Caucasian population. As the 
median survival has increased related to early multidisciplinary intervention, 
other manifestations of CF have emerged especially for the broad spectrum of 
hepatobiliary involvement. The present study reviews the existing literature on 
liver disease in cystic fibrosis and describes the key issues for an adequate 
clinical evaluation and management of patients, with a focus on the 
pathogenetic, clinical and diagnostic-therapeutic aspects of liver disease in 
CF.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: A literature search of electronic databases was undertaken 
for relevant studies published from 1990 about liver disease in cystic fibrosis. 
The databases searched were: EMBASE, PubMed and Cochrane Library.
RESULTS: CF is due to mutations in the gene on chromosome 7 that encodes an 
amino acidic polypeptide named CFTR (cystic fibrosis transmembrane regulator). 
The hepatic manifestations include particular changes referring to the basic 
CFTR defect, iatrogenic lesions or consequences of the multisystem disease. Even 
though hepatobiliary disease is the most common non-pulmonary cause of mortality 
in CF (the third after pulmonary disease and transplant complications), only 
about the 33%of CF patients presents clinically significant hepatobiliary 
disease.
CONCLUSIONS: Liver disease will have a growing impact on survival and quality of 
life of cystic fibrosis patients because a longer life expectancy and for this 
it is important its early recognition and a correct clinical management aimed at 
delaying the onset of complications. This review could represent an opportunity 
to encourage researchers to better investigate genotype-phenotype correlation 
associated with the development of cystic fibrosis liver disease, especially for 
non-CFTR genetic polymorphisms, and detect predisposed individuals. Therapeutic 
trials are needed to find strategies of fibrosis prevention and to avoid its 
progression prior to development its related complications.

DOI: 10.5812/hepatmon.11215
PMCID: PMC3810678
PMID: 24171010


409. Springerplus. 2013 Oct 18;2:548. doi: 10.1186/2193-1801-2-548. eCollection
2013.

Prediction of muscular architecture of the rectus femoris and vastus lateralis 
from EMG during isometric contractions in soccer players.

Chauhan B(1), Hamzeh MA, Cuesta-Vargas AI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Centre for Sport and Exercise Sciences, 
University of Roehampton, London, UK.

OBJECTIVES: The purpose of the study was to establish regression equations that 
could be used to predict muscle thickness and pennation angle at different 
intensities from electromyography (EMG) based measures of muscle activation 
during isometric contractions.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
METHODS: Simultaneous ultrasonography and EMG were used to measure pennation 
angle, muscle thickness and muscle activity of the rectus femoris and vastus 
lateralis muscles, respectively, during graded isometric knee extension 
contractions performed on a Cybex dynamometer. Data form fifteen male soccer 
players were collected in increments of approximately 25% intensity of the 
maximum voluntary contraction (MVC) ranging from rest to MVC.
RESULTS: There was a significant correlation (P < 0.05) between ultrasound 
predictors and EMG measures for the muscle thickness of rectus femoris with an 
R(2) value of 0.68. There was no significant correlation (P > 0.05) between 
ultrasound pennation angle for the vastus lateralis predictors for EMG muscle 
activity with an R(2) value of 0.40.
CONCLUSIONS: The regression equations can be used to characterise muscle 
thickness more accurately and to determine how it changes with contraction 
intensity, this provides improved estimates of muscle force when using 
musculoskeletal models.

DOI: 10.1186/2193-1801-2-548
PMCID: PMC3806983
PMID: 24171156


410. Klin Khir. 2013 Aug;(8):41-4.

[Influence of pathology-based surgical treatment on quality of life in patients 
with postthrombotyc disease of lower extremities].

[Article in Ukrainian]

Orynchak VA.

Quality of life (QOL) in patients with posttrombotyc disease (PTD) of lower 
extremity after surgical treatment due to the pathogenetic features of the 
disease was investigated. In 27 patients, combined with crosectomy and 
venexeresis the paratibial fasciotomy and closed separation perforante veins 
were performed. QOL was studied CIYIQ questionnaire before surgery and at 1 year 
after it. According to morphological studies revealed fragments leg fascia 
chronic destructive processes that cause disruption of normal functioning 
"muscle pump". The results marching samples marked venous dysfunction that 
manifested a significant increase in the volume of tibia during passive standing 
and maintaining venous stasis after walking, indicating a lack of functioning 
"muscle pump". The amplitude of movements in talocrural joint in 1.4 times less 
than the total amount of flexion and extension of the foot in patients with PTD 
than in the control group. According to electromyography during PTD average 
amplitude was reduced by 1.5 times, maximum--1.8 times than that of the control 
group, indicating a significant reduction in functional capacity and tone leg 
muscles. QOL of patients after surgery improved to 2.1 times.

PMID: 24171288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Bioconjug Chem. 2013 Dec 18;24(12):1990-7. doi: 10.1021/bc4002882. Epub 2013
Nov  20.

β-Eliminative releasable linkers adapted for bioconjugation of macromolecules to 
phenols.

Schneider EL(1), Robinson L, Reid R, Ashley GW, Santi DV.

Author information:
(1)ProLynx, 455 Mission Bay Boulevard South, Suite 145, San Francisco, 
California 94158, United States.

We recently reported a chemical approach for half-life extension that utilizes 
sets of releasable linkers to attach drugs to macromolecules via a cleavable 
carbamate group (Santi et al., Proc. Nat. Acad. Sci. U.S.A. 2012, 109, 
6211-6216). The linkers undergo a β-elimination cleavage to release the free, 
native amine-containing drug. A limitation of the technology is the requirement 
for an amino group on the drug in order to form the carbamate bond, since most 
small molecules do not have an amine functional group. Here, we describe an 
approach to adapt these same β-elimination carbamate linkers so they can be used 
to connect other acidic heteroatoms, in particular, phenolic hydroxyl groups. 
The approach utilizes a methylene adaptor to connect the drug to the carbamate 
nitrogen, and an electron-withdrawing group attached to carbamate nitrogen to 
stabilize the system against a pH-independent spontaneous cleavage. Carbamate 
cleavage is driven by β-elimination to give a carboxylated aryl amino Mannich 
base which rapidly collapses to give the free drug, an aryl amine, and 
formaldehyde.

DOI: 10.1021/bc4002882
PMID: 24171387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


412. Acta Orthop. 2013 Oct;84(5):489-94. doi: 10.3109/17453674.2013.850010. Epub
2013  Oct 31.

Conversion to below-elbow cast after 3 weeks is safe for diaphyseal both-bone 
forearm fractures in children.

Colaris JW(1), Allema JH, Biter LU, Reijman M, van de Ven CP, de Vries MR, Bloem 
RM, Kerver AJ, Verhaar JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery , Erasmus Medical Center , Rotterdam.

BACKGROUND: It is unclear whether it is safe to convert above-elbow cast (AEC) 
to below-elbow cast (BEC) in a child who has sustained a displaced diaphyseal 
both-bone forearm fracture that is stable after reduction. In this multicenter 
study, we wanted to answer the question: does early conversion to BEC cause 
similar forearm rotation to that after treatment with AEC alone?
CHILDREN AND METHODS: Children were randomly allocated to 6 weeks of AEC, or 3 
weeks of AEC followed by 3 weeks of BEC. The primary outcome was limitation of 
pronation/supination after 6 months. The secondary outcomes were re-displacement 
of the fracture, limitation of flexion/extension of the wrist and elbow, 
complication rate, cast comfort, complaints in daily life, and cosmetics of the 
fractured arm.
RESULTS: 62 children were treated with 6 weeks of AEC, and 65 children were 
treated with 3 weeks of AEC plus 3 weeks of BEC. The follow-up rate was 60/62 
and 64/65, respectively with a mean time of 6.9 (4.7-13) months. The limitation 
of pronation/supination was similar in both groups (18 degrees for the AEC group 
and 11 degrees for the AEC/BEC group). The secondary outcomes were similar in 
both groups, with the exception of cast comfort, which was in favor of the 
AEC/BEC group.
INTERPRETATION: Early conversion to BEC cast is safe and results in greater cast 
comfort.

DOI: 10.3109/17453674.2013.850010
PMCID: PMC3822135
PMID: 24171685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


413. BMC Public Health. 2013 Oct 30;13:1025. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-1025.

Cost-effectiveness and cost utility analysis of three pneumococcal conjugate 
vaccines in children of Peru.

Gomez JA(1), Tirado JC, Navarro Rojas AA, Castrejon Alba MM, Topachevskyi O.

Author information:
(1)GSK Argentina, Victoria, Buenos Aires, Argentina. Jorge.A.Gomez@gsk.com.

BACKGROUND: The clinical and economic burden associated with invasive and 
non-invasive pneumococcal and non-typeable Haemophilus influenzae (NTHi) 
diseases is substantial in the Latin America and Caribbean region, where 
pneumococcal vaccines have only been introduced to a few countries. This study 
analyzed the cost-effectiveness and cost utility of three different pneumococcal 
conjugate vaccines (PCVs) for Peru.
METHODS: A Markov model that simulated the disease processes in a birth cohort 
over a lifetime, within 1,128 month cycles was used to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of 10-valent pneumococcal NTHi protein D conjugate vaccine 
(PHiD-CV) and 7- and 13-valent PCVs (PCV-7 and PCV-13). Expected 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), cost-savings and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated.
RESULTS: Without vaccination, pneumonia was associated with the greatest health 
economic burden (90% of QALYs lost and 63% of lifetime direct medical costs); 
while acute otitis media (AOM) was responsible for 1% of QALYs lost and 25% of 
direct medical costs. All vaccines were predicted to be cost-effective for Peru, 
with PHiD-CV being most cost-effective. PHiD-CV was predicted to generate 50 
more QALYs gained and required a reduced investment (-US$ 3.4 million) versus 
PCV-13 (discounted data), and was therefore dominant and cost saving. The 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis showed that PHiD-CV generated more QALYs 
gained at a reduced cost than PCV-13 in 84% of the simulations and less QALYs 
gains at a reduced cost in 16%. Additional scenarios using different assumptions 
on vaccine efficacies based on previous evidence were explored, but no 
significant change in the overall cost-effective results were observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this modeling study predict that PCVs are likely to 
be a cost-effective strategy to help relieve the epidemiological and economic 
burden associated with pediatric pneumococcal and NTHi diseases for Peru. 
PHiD-CV is likely to be a dominant (better health gains at a reduced net cost) 
intervention compared to PCV-13 or PCV-7. The most significant drivers for these 
results are the better health and economic profile of PHiD-CV against AOM and 
its reduced cost per dose available through the PAHO Revolving Fund in the LAC 
region.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-13-1025
PMCID: PMC4228443
PMID: 24171921 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


414. Health Technol Assess. 2013 Oct;17(47):vii-xvii, 1-109. doi:
10.3310/hta17470.

A cluster randomised controlled trial to determine the clinical effectiveness 
and cost-effectiveness of classroom-based cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) in 
reducing symptoms of depression in high-risk adolescents.

Stallard P(1), Phillips R, Montgomery AA, Spears M, Anderson R, Taylor J, Araya 
R, Lewis G, Ukoumunne OC, Millings A, Georgiou L, Cook E, Sayal K.

Author information:
(1)Department for Health, University of Bath, Bath, UK.

Comment in
    Evid Based Ment Health. 2014 May;17(2):42-3.

BACKGROUND: Depression in adolescents is a significant problem that impairs 
everyday functioning and increases the risk of severe mental health disorders in 
adulthood. Although this is a major problem, relatively few adolescents with, or 
at risk of developing, depression are identified and referred for treatment. 
This suggests the need to investigate alternative approaches whereby 
preventative interventions are made widely available in schools.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of 
classroom-based cognitive-behavioural therapy (CBT) in reducing symptoms of 
depression in high-risk adolescents.
DESIGN: Cluster randomised controlled trial. Year groups ( n = 28) randomly 
allocated on a 1 : 1 : 1 basis to one of three trial arms once all schools were 
recruited and balanced for number of classes, number of students, Personal, 
Social and Health Education (PSHE) lesson frequency, and scheduling of PSHE.
SETTING: Year groups 8 to 11 (ages 12-16 years) in mixed-sex secondary schools 
in the UK. Data were collected between 2009 and 2011.
PARTICIPANTS: Young people who attended PSHE at participating schools were 
eligible ( n = 5503). Of the 5030 who agreed to participate, 1064 (21.2%) were 
classified as 'high risk': 392 in the classroom-based CBT arm, 374 in the 
attention control PSHE arm and 298 in the usual PSHE arm. Primary outcome data 
on the high-risk group at 12 months were available for classroom-based CBT ( n = 
296), attention control PSHE ( n = 308) and usual PSHE ( n = 242).
INTERVENTIONS: The Resourceful Adolescent Programme (RAP) is a focused CBT-based 
intervention adapted for the UK (RAP-UK) and delivered by two facilitators 
external to the school. Control groups were usual PSHE (usual school curriculum 
delivered by teachers) and attention control (usual school PSHE with additional 
support from two facilitators). Interventions were delivered universally to 
whole classes.
PRIMARY OUTCOMES: Clinical effectiveness: symptoms of depression [Short Mood and 
Feelings Questionnaire (SMFQ)] in adolescents at high risk of depression 12 
months from baseline. Cost-effectiveness: incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) based on SMFQ score and quality-adjusted life-years (from European 
Quality of Life-5 Dimensions scores) between baseline and 12 months. Process 
evaluation: reach, attrition and qualitative feedback from service recipients 
and providers.
RESULTS: SMFQ scores had decreased for high-risk adolescents in all trial arms 
at 12 months, but there was no difference between arms [classroom-based CBT vs. 
usual PSHE adjusted difference in means 0.97, 95% confidence interval (CI) -0.34 
to 2.28; classroom-based CBT vs. attention control PSHE -0.63, 95% CI -1.99 to 
0.73]. Costs of interventions per child were estimated at £41.96 for 
classroom-based CBT and £34.45 for attention control PSHE. Fieller's method was 
used to obtain a parametric estimate of the 95% CI for the ICERs and construct 
the cost-effectiveness acceptability curve, confirming that classroom-based CBT 
was not cost-effective relative to the controls. Reach of classroom-based CBT 
was good and attrition was low (median 80% attending ≥ 60% of sessions), but 
feedback indicated some difficulties with acceptability and sustainability.
CONCLUSIONS: Classroom-based CBT, attention control PSHE and usual PSHE produced 
similar outcomes. Classroom-based CBT may result in increased self-awareness and 
reporting of depressive symptoms. Classroom-based CBT was not shown to be 
cost-effective. While schools are a convenient way of reaching a wide range of 
young people, implementing classroom-based CBT within schools is challenging, 
particularly with regard to fitting programmes into a busy timetable, the lack 
of value placed on PSHE, and difficulties engaging with teachers and young 
people. Wider use of classroom-based depression prevention programmes should not 
be undertaken without further research. If universal preventative approaches are 
to be pursued, their clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness with younger 
children (aged 10-11 years), before the incidence of depression increases, 
should be investigated. Alternatively, the clinical effectiveness of indicated 
school-based programmes targeting those already displaying symptoms of 
depression should be investigated.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN19083628.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment 
programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 
17, No. 47. See the HTA programme website for further project information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta17470
PMCID: PMC4781207
PMID: 24172024 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


415. Tohoku J Exp Med. 2013 Nov;231(3):171-7. doi: 10.1620/tjem.231.171.

A nine-year population-based cohort study on the risk of multiple sclerosis in 
patients with optic neuritis.

Woung LC(1), Peng PH, Liu CC, Tsai CY, Wang KC, Lee WJ, Chen TS, Li CY.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Taipei City Hospital, National Taiwan 
University.

Patients with optic neuritis (ON) are at an increased risk of developing 
multiple sclerosis (MS), an illness that may result in physical dysfunction and 
short life expectancy. Information on the conversion rate to MS of patients with 
ON is essential in determining the impact of ON on the incidence of MS. Previous 
Taiwanese studies on the risk of MS in patients with ON were all hospital based, 
thereby limiting the generalizability of the findings. We aimed to estimate the 
risk of MS in patients with ON using a nationally representative sample. A 
cohort of 2,741 patients who sought outpatient care for ON in 2000 was 
identified from Taiwan's National Health Insurance claims. The control group 
consisted of 27,330 age- and sex-matched subjects randomly selected from all 
beneficiaries in 2000. The person-year approach with Poisson assumption was used 
to estimate the incidence rate of MS from 2000 to 2008. The relative risk of 
outpatient visit or hospitalization for MS was estimated using the Cox 
proportional hazard model. The incidence rates of MS in the ON and control 
groups were 25.6 and 0.4, respectively, per 10,000 person-years; these values 
represent a relative risk estimate of 30.84 (95% confidence interval: 14.48 to 
