ICD patients, and 65% of CRT-D patients, with wireless (radiofrequency) remote 
patient monitoring associated with higher patient compliance rates (74% versus 
64%, resp.). Wireless remote patient management with alerts for atrial 
tachyarrhythmias was felt to be important by 76% of respondents. When choosing 
an MR-conditional device, physicians deemed patients with prior orthopedic 
problems, a history of cancer, or neurological disorders to be more likely to 
require a future MRI. Device longevity and reliability remain the most important 
factors which influence device selection. Wireless remote patient monitoring 
with alerts is considered increasingly important when choosing a specific 
cardiac rhythm management system to implant.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/247586
PMCID: PMC3888691
PMID: 24490084


258. Mitochondrial DNA. 2015 Aug;26(4):605-12. doi: 10.3109/19401736.2014.880887.
 Epub 2014 Feb 3.

DNA barcoding revises a misidentification on musk deer.

Yang C(1), Xiao Z, Zou Y, Zhang X, Yang B, Hao Y, Moermond T, Yue B.

Author information:
(1)Chongqing Key Laboratory of Animal Biology, College of Life Sciences, 
Chongqing Normal University , Chongqing , P.R. China .

As an endangered animal group in China, musk deer (genus Moschus) have attracted 
the attention of deer biologists and wildlife conservationists. Clarifying the 
taxonomic status and distribution of musk deer species is important to determine 
the conservation status for each species and establish appropriate conservation 
strategies. There remains some uncertainty about the species determination of 
the musk deer in the Guandi Forest District of Shanxi Province, China. The musk 
deer in Shanxi would appear to represent an extension of the geographical 
distribution of either the Forest Musk Deer from the southwest or the Siberian 
Musk Deer from the northeast, or possibly both. The musk deer population in 
Shanxi Province provides an interesting and significant case to test the value 
of applying molecular methods to make a genetic species identification. In order 
to clarify the species status of the Shanxi musk deer, we sequenced 627 bp of 
the COI gene and ≈723 bp of the D-loop gene in 12 musk deer samples collected 
from the Guandi Forest District, and the two reference samples collected from 
Sichuan. Genetic analyses from the data suggest that all of the samples from the 
Guandi Forest District are M. berezovskii rather than M. moschiferus. It is most 
likely that the most previous studies had wrong species identification. And it 
is the first time we use DNA barcoding to prove that Shanxi is a new 
distribution of M. berezovskii.

DOI: 10.3109/19401736.2014.880887
PMID: 24491100 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2014 Feb;103(2):292-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2013.12.060. Epub 2014 Jan 14.

Effectiveness of combined therapy with angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors 
and statins in reducing mortality in diabetic patients with critical limb 
ischemia: an observational study.

Faglia E(1), Clerici G(2), Scatena A(1), Caminiti M(1), Curci V(1), Morabito 
A(3), Prisco V(4), Greco R(4), Edmonds M(5).

Author information:
(1)Diabetic Foot Centre, IRCCS Policlinico Multimedica, Va Milanese 300, Sesto 
San Giovanni 20099, Milan, Italy.
(2)Diabetic Foot Centre, IRCCS Policlinico Multimedica, Va Milanese 300, Sesto 
San Giovanni 20099, Milan, Italy. Electronic address: 
giacomo.clerici@multimedica.it.
(3)Medical Statistics Unit, Milan University, Milan, Italy.
(4)Fondazione Onlus DeaMedica, Pagani, SA, Italy.
(5)King's College Hospital, London, UK.

Comment in
    J Vasc Nurs. 2014 Sep;32(3):125-6.

AIMS: To investigate the effect of combined treatment with 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors (ACE) and statins on mortality in 
diabetic patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI).
METHODS: Prospective observational study of 553 consecutive diabetic patients 
admitted because of CLI followed for a mean of 2.2 years. All patients underwent 
peripheral revascularization and antithrombotic therapy was prescribed or 
continued and therapy with statin and ACE was recorded. Mortality from any cause 
was assessed and Kaplan-Meier analyses were performed to compare the 
relationship between survival and recorded variables.
RESULTS: One hundred thirty-nine patients did not have therapy with statin or an 
ACE, 78 had therapy with statin without ACE, 164 had therapy with ACE without 
statin and 172 patients had therapy with both statin and ACE. One hundred 
thirty-six patients died, 45/139 with neither statin nor ACE, 40/164 with ACE 
only, 26/78 with statin only, and 25/172 with both statin and ACE. Multivariate 
analysis confirmed the independent role of age, history of stroke, renal 
insufficiency and dialysis. Combined treatment with ACE and statin appeared to 
have a protective role.
CONCLUSIONS: In patients with diabetes and CLI mortality after two years is 
high. Life expectancy was better in patients receiving combined therapy with ACE 
and statin but not with therapy with only a statin or an ACE.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2013.12.060
PMID: 24492022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Home Healthc Nurse. 2014 Feb;32(2):73-4. doi: 10.1097/NHH.0000000000000034.

Your important role in transitions, chronic care, and the increasing complexity 
as we live longer!

Marrelli TM.

DOI: 10.1097/NHH.0000000000000034
PMID: 24492263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Transplantation. 2014 Feb 15;97(3):258-64. doi: 
10.1097/01.TP.0000437178.48174.db.

Donation after circulatory death: current practices, ongoing challenges, and 
potential improvements.

Morrissey PE(1), Monaco AP.

Author information:
(1)1 Rhode Island Hospital, Alpert Medical School of Brown University, 
Providence, RI. 2 Beth Israel-Deaconess Medical Center, Harvard Medical School, 
Boston, MA. 3 Address correspondence to: Paul E. Morrissey, M.D., Division of 
Organ Transplantation, Rhode Island Hospital, 593 Eddy St, APC 921, Providence, 
RI 02903.

Organ donation after circulatory death (DCD) has been endorsed by the World 
Health Organization and is practiced worldwide. This overview examines current 
DCD practices, identifies problems and challenges, and suggests clinical 
strategies for possible improvement. Although there is uniform agreement on DCD 
donor candidacy (ventilator-dependent individuals with nonrecoverable or 
irreversible neurologic injury not meeting brain death criteria), there are 
variations in all aspects of DCD practice. Utilization of DCD organs is limited 
by hypoxia, hypotension, reduced--then absent--organ perfusion, and 
ischemia/reperfusion syndrome. Nevertheless, DCD kidneys exhibit comparable 
function and survival to donors with brain death kidneys, although they have 
higher rates of primary graft nonfunction, delayed graft function, discard, and 
retrieval associated injury. Concern over ischemic organ injury underscores the 
reluctance to recover extrarenal DCD organs since lack of medical therapy to 
support inadequate allograft function limits their acceptability. Nevertheless, 
limited results with DCD pancreas, liver, and lung allografts (but not heart) 
are now approaching that of donors with brain death organs. Pretransplant 
machine perfusion of DCD kidneys (vs. static storage) may reduce delayed graft 
function but has no effect on long-term organ function and survival. 
Normothermic regional perfusion used during DCD abdominal organ retrieval may 
reduce ischemic organ injury and increase the number of usable organs, although 
critical confirmative studies have yet to be done. Minor increases in usable DCD 
kidneys could accrue from increased use of pediatric DCD kidneys and from 
selective use of DCD/ECD kidneys, whereas a modest increase could result through 
utilization of donors declared dead beyond 1 hr from withdrawal of life support 
therapy. A significant increase in transplantable kidneys could be achieved by 
extension of the concept of living kidney donation in relation to imminent death 
of potential DCD donors. Progress in research to identify, prevent, and repair 
DCD-associated organ retrieval injury should improve utilization of DCD organs. 
Recent results using ex situ pretransplant organ perfusion of DCD organs has 
been encouraging in this regard.

DOI: 10.1097/01.TP.0000437178.48174.db
PMID: 24492420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Eur Spine J. 2014 Apr;23(4):786-93. doi: 10.1007/s00586-014-3212-3. Epub
2014  Feb 4.

A prospective, cluster-randomized controlled trial of exercise program to 
prevent low back pain in office workers.

Sihawong R(1), Janwantanakul P, Jiamjarasrangsi W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Faculty of Allied Health Sciences, 
Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.

PURPOSE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the effects of an exercise 
program focusing on muscle stretching and endurance training on the 12-month 
incidence of low back pain (LBP) in office workers.
METHODS: A 12-month prospective cluster-randomized controlled trial was 
conducted in healthy office workers with lower-than-normal trunk extension 
flexibility or trunk muscle endurance. Healthy office workers (n = 563) were 
randomly assigned at the cluster level into either intervention (n = 282) or 
control (n = 281) groups. Participants in the intervention group received an 
exercise program that included daily stretching exercise and twice-a-week muscle 
endurance training. Those in the control group received no intervention. The 
12-month incidence of LBP was the primary outcome. Secondary outcome were pain 
intensity, disability level, and quality of life and health status. Analyses 
were performed using the Cox proportional hazard models.
RESULTS: Over the 12-month follow-up, 8.8% of participants in the intervention 
group and 19.7% in the control group developed incidence of LBP. Hazard rate 
ratios showed a protective effect of the exercise program for LBP (HR = 0.37, 
95% CI 0.22-0.64) after adjusting for biopsychosocial factors. There was no 
significant difference in pain intensity, disability, and quality of life and 
health status between those who reported incidence of LBP in the intervention 
and control groups.
CONCLUSION: An exercise program consisting of muscle stretching and endurance 
training is an effective intervention to reduce incident LBP for office workers 
with lower-than-normal trunk extension flexibility or trunk muscle endurance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-014-3212-3
PMCID: PMC3960439
PMID: 24492949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. Dermatoendocrinol. 2013 Jan 1;5(1):181-5. doi: 10.4161/derm.23773.

What is the relationship between ultraviolet B and global incidence rates of 
colorectal cancer?

Cuomo RE(1), Mohr SB(2), Gorham ED(2), Garland CF(2).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Public Health; San Diego State University; San Diego, CA 
USA.
(2)Naval Health Research Center; San Diego, CA USA ; Division of Epidemiology; 
Department of Family and Preventative Medicine; University of California; La 
Jolla, CA USA.

The purpose of this study is to examine the relationship between ultraviolet B 
and global incidence of colorectal cancer, while controlling for relevant 
covariates. Linear regression was used to assess the relationship between 
latitude and incidence rates of colon cancer in 173 countries. Multiple linear 
regression was employed to investigate the relationship between ultraviolet B 
dose and colorectal cancer rates while controlling for per capita intake of 
energy from animal sources, per capita health expenditure, pigmentation, and 
life expectancy. Data on all variables were available for 139 countries. 
Incidence of colon cancer was highest in countries distant from the equator 
(R(2) = 0.50, p < 0.0001). UV B dose (p < 0.0001) was independently, inversely 
associated with incidence rates of colorectal cancer after controlling for 
intake of energy from animal sources, per capita health expenditure, 
pigmentation, and life expectancy (R(2) for overall model = 0.76, p < 0.0001). 
Consistent with previous research, UVB was inversely associated with incidence 
of colon cancer. Further research on vitamin D and prevention of colon cancer in 
individuals should be conducted, including studies of higher serum 
25-hydroxyvitamin D concentrations than have been studied to date.

DOI: 10.4161/derm.23773
PMCID: PMC3897587
PMID: 24494052


264. R I Med J (2013). 2014 Feb 3;97(2):38-41.

Transcatheter aortic valve replacement: a review of current indications and 
outcomes.

Prabhu W(1), Gordon PC(2).

Author information:
(1)Fellow in Cardiology at The Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University.
(2)Director of the Cardiac Catheterization Laboratory at The Miriam Hospital, 
Associate Professor of Medicine (Clinical) in the Department of Medicine at The 
Warren Alpert Medical School of Brown University, affiliated with the 
Cardiovascular Institute, Providence, RI.

In patients with symptomatic severe aortic stenosis, surgical aortic valve 
replacement (SAVR) improves survival, quality of life, and functional status 
compared with medical therapy. Based on the results of the randomized PARTNER 
Trial, Transcatheter Aortic Valve Replacement (TAVR) using the Edwards Sapien 
balloon expandable valve is now available in the United States for patients who 
are either inoperable due to anatomic concerns or severe medical co-morbidities, 
or as an alternative in patients considered high risk for SAVR. Fifty-six 
patients have been treated with TAVR at Rhode Island Hospital from March 2012 
through October 2013 with similar outcomes to The PARTNER Trial and several 
large European registries. Second- generation valves and lower profile delivery 
systems designed to reduce the incidence of vascular complications, stroke, and 
perivalvular leak; and extension of TAVR to intermediate risk surgical patients, 
are under investigation.

PMID: 24494213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. J Evol Biol. 2014 Mar;27(3):541-50. doi: 10.1111/jeb.12318. Epub 2014 Feb 3.

Male mealworm beetles increase resting metabolic rate under terminal investment.

Krams IA(1)(2)(3), Krama T(1), Moore FR(4), Kivleniece I(1), Kuusik A(5), 
Freeberg TM(6), Mänd R(2), Rantala MJ(3), Daukšte J(7), Mänd M(5).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Systematic Biology, University of Daugavpils, Daugavpils, 
Latvia.
(2)Institute of Ecology and Earth Sciences, University of Tartu, Tartu, Estonia.
(3)Department of Biology, University of Turku, Turku, Finland.
(4)School of Psychology, University of Dundee, Dundee, UK.
(5)Department of Plant Protection, Institute of Agricultural and Environmental 
Sciences, Estonian University of Life Science, Tartu, Estonia.
(6)Department of Psychology and Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, 
University of Tennessee, Knoxville, TN, USA.
(7)Institute of Food Safety, Animal Health and Environment "BIOR", Riga, Latvia.

Harmful parasite infestation can cause energetically costly behavioural and 
immunological responses, with the potential to reduce host fitness and survival. 
It has been hypothesized that the energetic costs of infection cause resting 
metabolic rate (RMR) to increase. Furthermore, under terminal investment theory, 
individuals exposed to pathogens should allocate resources to current 
reproduction when life expectancy is reduced, instead of concentrating resources 
on an immune defence. In this study, we activated the immune system of Tenebrio 
molitor males via insertion of nylon monofilament, conducted female preference 
tests to estimate attractiveness of male odours and assessed RMR and mortality. 
We found that attractiveness of males coincided with significant down-regulation 
of their encapsulation response against a parasite-like intruder. Activation of 
the immune system increased RMR only in males with heightened odour 
attractiveness and that later suffered higher mortality rates. The results 
suggest a link between high RMR and mortality and support terminal investment 
theory in T. molitor.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Evolutionary Biology © 2014 European Society For 
Evolutionary Biology.

DOI: 10.1111/jeb.12318
PMID: 24494599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. J Med Econ. 2014 Mar;17(3):215-22. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2014.890936.

Cost-effectiveness of glatiramer acetate and interferon beta-1a for 
relapsing-remitting multiple sclerosis, based on the CombiRx study.

Darbà J(1), Kaskens L, Sánchez-de la Rosa R.

Author information:
(1)Universitat de Barcelona , Barcelona , Spain.

BACKGROUND: To assess the cost-effectiveness of the Disease Modifying Treatments 
(DMT), Glatiramer Acetate (GA) and Interferon beta-1a (IFN) in monotherapy alone 
and in combination for the prevention of relapses among Spanish patients aged 
between 18-60 years old with established Relapsing-Remitting Multiple Sclerosis 
(RRMS).
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to represent the transition of a cohort of 
patients over a 10 year period using the perspective of the Spanish National 
Health Service (NHS). The model considered five different health states with 
1-year cycles including without relapse, patients with suspect, non-protocol 
defined and protocol defined exacerbations, as well as a category information 
lost. Efficacy data was obtained from the 3-year CombiRx Study. Costs were 
reported in 2013 Euros and a 3% discount rate was applied for health and 
benefits. Deterministic results were presented as the annual treatment cost for 
the number of relapses. A probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed to 
test the robustness of the model.
RESULTS: Deterministic results showed that the expected annual cost per patient 
was lower when treated with GA (€13,843) compared with IFN (€15,589) and the 
combined treatment with IFN+GA (€21,539). The annual number of relapses were 
lower in the GA cohort with 3.81 vs 4.18 in the IFN cohort and 4.08 in the 
cohort treated with IFN+GA. Results from probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
showed that GA has a higher probability of being cost-effective than treatment 
with IFN or IFN+GA for threshold values from €28,000 onwards, independent of the 
maximum that the Spanish NHS is willing to pay for avoiding relapses.
CONCLUSION: GA was shown to be a cost-effective treatment option for the 
prevention of relapses in Spanish patients diagnosed with RRMS. When GA in 
monotherapy is compared with INF in monotherapy and IFN+GA combined, it may be 
concluded that the first is the dominant strategy.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2014.890936
PMID: 24494728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. J Med Chem. 2014 Mar 27;57(6):2303-14. doi: 10.1021/jm401644v. Epub 2014 Mar
6.

Macromolecular prodrug that provides the irinotecan (CPT-11) active-metabolite 
SN-38 with ultralong half-life, low C(max), and low glucuronide formation.

Santi DV(1), Schneider EL, Ashley GW.

Author information:
(1)ProLynx , 455 Mission Bay Boulevard South, Suite 145, San Francisco, 
California 94158, United States.

We have recently reported a chemical approach for half-life extension that 
utilizes β-eliminative linkers to attach amine-containing drugs or prodrugs to 
macromolecules. The linkers release free drug or prodrug over periods ranging 
from a few hours to over 1 year. We adapted these linkers for use with 
phenol-containing drugs. Here, we prepared PEG conjugates of the irinotecan 
(CPT-11) active metabolite SN-38 via a phenyl ether that release the drug with 
predictable long half-lives. Pharmacokinetic studies in the rat indicate that, 
in contrast to other SN-38 prodrugs, the slowly released SN-38 shows a very low 
C(max), is kept above target concentrations for extended periods, and forms very 
little SN-38 glucuronide (the precursor of enterotoxic SN-38). The low SN-38 
glucuronide is attributed to low hepatic uptake of SN-38. These macromolecular 
prodrugs have unique pharmacokinetic profiles that may translate to less 
intestinal toxicity and interpatient variability than the SN-38 prodrugs thus 
far studied.

DOI: 10.1021/jm401644v
PMID: 24494988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Diabetes Obes Metab. 2014 Sep;16(9):869-72. doi: 10.1111/dom.12271. Epub
2014  Feb 27.

Health status and hypoglycaemia with insulin degludec versus insulin glargine: a 
2-year trial in insulin-naïve patients with type 2 diabetes.

Rodbard HW(1), Cariou B, Zinman B, Handelsman Y, Wolden ML, Rana A, Mathieu C.

Author information:
(1)Endocrine and Metabolic Consultants, Rockville, MD, USA.

Insulin degludec (IDeg) is a new basal insulin with an ultra-long and stable 
glucose-lowering effect. We compared once-daily IDeg and insulin glargine 
(IGlar), both in combination with metformin ± dipeptidyl peptidase-4 inhibitors, 
in a 52-week, open-label, treat-to-target trial in patients with type 2 diabetes 
followed by a 52-week extension trial in which subjects [n = 725/1030 (70.4%)] 
maintained their initial randomised treatment. Health status was assessed at 
baseline and 105 weeks using the Short Form-36 (SF-36 v2) questionnaire. SF-36 
scores were analysed (ITT population) using anova, with adjustments for 
covariates. At 105 weeks, the overall physical component score was significantly 
better with IDeg versus IGlar [treatment contrast (TC): 1.1 (0.1; 2.1)95% CI , p 
< 0.05]. This was largely because of significantly better physical functioning 
[TC: 1.1 (0.0; 2.3)95% CI , p < 0.05] and bodily pain sub-domain scores [TC: 1.5 
(0.2; 2.9)95% CI , p < 0.05]. Improvements in health status with IDeg compared 
to IGlar were maintained after 2 years.

© 2014 The Authors. Diabetes, Obesity and Metabolism published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/dom.12271
PMCID: PMC4237540
PMID: 24495158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Med Hypotheses. 2014 Mar;82(3):387-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mehy.2014.01.009. Epub
2014  Jan 20.

An intermittent exhaustion of the pool of glycogen in the human organism as a 
simple universal health promoting mechanism.

Cherkas A(1), Golota S(2).

Author information:
(1)Lviv State College of Physical Culture, 1 Knyagyni Olgy St., Lviv 79044, 
Ukraine. Electronic address: cherkasandriy@yahoo.com.
(2)Private Laboratory "Eurolab", 9 Krupiarska St., Lviv 79014, Ukraine.

Glycogen storage in human organism is providing reserve source of glucose which 
is critical for normal functioning of the nervous system during periods between 
meals and is also important for many other tissues. Overwhelming excessive 
consumption of carbohydrates and decreasing physical activity among the world 
population lead to dramatic increase in incidence and mortality related to 
cardiovascular diseases, metabolic syndrome and diabetes mellitus type 2. There 
is an observation that many interventions with proved clinical efficiency like 
physical activity, intermittent fasting, caloric restriction and some 
pharmacological treatments have in common the ability to decrease content of 
glycogen in the liver and skeletal muscles. This effect leads to increased 
ability of these organs to uptake the next dose of glucose and store it in the 
form of glycogen. Moreover these interventions lead to significant life span 
extension, provide better body fitness and prevent development of multiple 
age-related diseases. In contrast excessive glucose load and saturation of 
tissues with glycogen provide a metabolic shift toward synthesis of fatty acids 
by liver. In advanced stages decreased glucose tolerance, insulin resistance, 
hyperinsulinemia, fatty liver disease, impairment of liver function and 
derangements of cholesterol metabolism are observed. It is suggested that 
noninvasive measurement of glycogen content in tissues could serve as important 
diagnostic and follow-up parameter for clinical practice and healthy lifestyle 
in wide population groups.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mehy.2014.01.009
PMID: 24495563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. Sci Eng Ethics. 2014 Sep;20(3):769-90. doi: 10.1007/s11948-014-9519-y. Epub
2014  Feb 5.

Evolution of different dual-use concepts in international and national law and 
its implications on research ethics and governance.

Rath J(1), Ischi M, Perkins D.

Author information:
(1)Department Integrative Zoologie, University of Vienna, Althanstrasse 14, 
1090, Vienna, Austria, johannes.rath@univie.ac.at.

This paper provides an overview of the various dual-use concepts applied in 
national and international non-proliferation and anti-terrorism legislation, 
such as the Biological and Toxin Weapons Convention, the Chemical Weapons 
Convention and United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540, and national 
export control legislation and in relevant codes of conduct. While there is a 
vast literature covering dual-use concepts in particular with regard to life 
sciences, this is the first paper that incorporates into such discussion the 
United Nations Security Council Resolution 1540. In addition, recent 
developments such as the extension of dual-use export control legislation in the 
area of human rights protection are also identified and reviewed. The discussion 
of dual-use concepts is hereby undertaken in the context of human- and/or 
national-security-based approaches to security. This paper discusses four main 
concepts of dual use as applied today in international and national law: 
civilian versus military, peaceful versus non-peaceful, legitimate versus 
illegitimate and benevolent versus malevolent. In addition, the usage of the 
term to describe positive technology spin-offs between civilian and military 
applications is also briefly addressed. Attention is also given to the roles 
civil society and research ethics may play in the governance of dual-use 
sciences and technologies.

DOI: 10.1007/s11948-014-9519-y
PMID: 24497004 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Cell Biol Int. 2014 Mar;38(3):283-6. doi: 10.1002/cbin.10204. Epub 2013 Nov
27.

Vinculin-p130Cas interaction is critical for focal adhesion dynamics and 
mechano-transduction.

Goldmann WH(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Medical Physics and Technology, Biophysics Group, 
Friedrich-Alexander-University of Erlangen-Nuremberg, Henkestrasse 91, 91052, 
Erlangen, Germany.

Adherent cells, when mechanically stressed, show a wide range of responses 
including large-scale changes in their mechanical behaviour and gene expression 
pattern. This is in part facilitated by activating the focal adhesion (FA) 
protein p130Cas through force-induced conformational changes that lead to the 
phosphorylation by src family kinases. Janostiak et al. [Janostiak et al. Cell 
Mol Life Sci (2013) DOI 10.1007/s00018-013-1450-x] have reported that the 
phosphorylation site Y12 on the SH3 domain of p130Cas modulates the binding with 
vinculin, a prominent mechano-coupling protein in FAs. Tension changes in FAs 
(due to the anchorage of the SH3 domain and C-terminal) bring about an extension 
of the substrate domain of p130Cas by unmasking the phosphorylation sites. These 
observations demonstrate that vinculin is an important modulator of the 
p130Cas-mediated mechano-transduction pathway in cells. The central aim should 
be now to test that vinculin is critical for p130Cas incorporation into the 
focal adhesion complex and for transmitting forces to the p130Cas molecule.

© 2013 International Federation for Cell Biology.

DOI: 10.1002/cbin.10204
PMID: 24497348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. PLoS Genet. 2014 Jan 30;10(1):e1004141. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004141. 
eCollection 2014 Jan.

Age, gender, and cancer but not neurodegenerative and cardiovascular diseases 
strongly modulate systemic effect of the Apolipoprotein E4 allele on lifespan.

Kulminski AM(1), Arbeev KG(2), Culminskaya I(2), Arbeeva L(3), Ukraintseva 
SV(4), Stallard E(2), Christensen K(5), Schupf N(6), Province MA(7), Yashin 
AI(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Population Health and Aging, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina, United States of America ; Institute for Genome Science and Policy, 
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United States of America ; Social 
Science Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United 
States of America.
(2)Center for Population Health and Aging, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina, United States of America ; Social Science Research Institute, Duke 
University, Durham, North Carolina, United States of America.
(3)Center for Population Health and Aging, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina, United States of America.
(4)Center for Population Health and Aging, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina, United States of America ; Institute for Genome Science and Policy, 
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United States of America ; Social 
Science Research Institute, Duke University, Durham, North Carolina, United 
States of America ; Duke Cancer Institute, Duke University, Durham, North 
Carolina, United States of America.
(5)The Danish Aging Research Center, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, 
Denmark ; Department of Clinical Genetics and Department of Clinical 
Biochemistry and Pharmacology, Odense University Hospital, Odense, Denmark.
(6)Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and the Aging Brain, 
Columbia University Medical Center, New York, New York, United States of 
America.
(7)Washington University School of Medicine, Division of Statistical Genomics, 
St. Louis, Missouri, United States of America.

Enduring interest in the Apolipoprotein E (ApoE) polymorphism is ensured by its 
evolutionary-driven uniqueness in humans and its prominent role in geriatrics 
and gerontology. We use large samples of longitudinally followed populations 
from the Framingham Heart Study (FHS) original and offspring cohorts and the 
Long Life Family Study (LLFS) to investigate gender-specific effects of the 
ApoE4 allele on human survival in a wide range of ages from midlife to extreme 
old ages, and the sensitivity of these effects to cardiovascular disease (CVD), 
cancer, and neurodegenerative disorders (ND). The analyses show that women's 
lifespan is more sensitive to the e4 allele than men's in all these populations. 
A highly significant adverse effect of the e4 allele is limited to women with 
moderate lifespan of about 70 to 95 years in two FHS cohorts and the LLFS with 
relative risk of death RR = 1.48 (p = 3.6 × 10(-6)) in the FHS cohorts. Major 
human diseases including CVD, ND, and cancer, whose risks can be sensitive to 
the e4 allele, do not mediate the association of this allele with lifespan in 
large FHS samples. Non-skin cancer non-additively increases mortality of the FHS 
women with moderate lifespans increasing the risks of death of the e4 carriers 
with cancer two-fold compared to the non-e4 carriers, i.e., RR = 2.07 (p = 5.0 × 
10(-7)). The results suggest a pivotal role of non-sex-specific cancer as a 
nonlinear modulator of survival in this sample that increases the risk of death 
of the ApoE4 carriers by 150% (p = 5.3 × 10(-8)) compared to the non-carriers. 
This risk explains the 4.2 year shorter life expectancy of the e4 carriers 
compared to the non-carriers in this sample. The analyses suggest the existence 
of age- and gender-sensitive systemic mechanisms linking the e4 allele to 
lifespan which can non-additively interfere with cancer-related mechanisms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004141
PMCID: PMC3907310
PMID: 24497847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


273. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 31;9(1):e87541. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087541. 
eCollection 2014.

The invisible cliff: abrupt imposition of Malthusian equilibrium in a 
natural-fertility, agrarian society.

Puleston C(1), Tuljapurkar S(2), Winterhalder B(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, University of California Davis, Davis, 
California, United States of America.
(2)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, California, United 
States of America.

Analysis of a natural fertility agrarian society with a multi-variate model of 
population ecology isolates three distinct phases of population growth following 
settlement of a new habitat: (1) a sometimes lengthy copial phase of surplus 
food production and constant vital rates; (2) a brief transition phase in which 
food shortages rapidly cause increased mortality and lessened fertility; and (3) 
a Malthusian phase of indefinite length in which vital rates and quality of life 
are depressed, sometimes strikingly so. Copial phase duration declines with 
increases in the size of the founding group, maximum life expectancy and 
fertility; it increases with habitat area and yield per hectare; and, it is 
unaffected by the sensitivity of vital rates to hunger. Transition phase 
duration is unaffected by size of founding population and area of settlement; it 
declines with yield, life expectancy, fertility and the sensitivity of vital 
rates to hunger. We characterize the transition phase as the Malthusian 
transition interval (MTI), in order to highlight how little time populations 
generally have to adjust. Under food-limited density dependence, the copial 
phase passes quickly to an equilibrium of grim Malthusian constraints, in the 
manner of a runner dashing over an invisible cliff. The three-phase pattern 
diverges from widely held intuitions based on standard Lotka-Verhulst approaches 
to population regulation, with implications for the analysis of socio-cultural 
evolution, agricultural intensification, bioarchaeological interpretation of 
food stress in prehistoric societies, and state-level collapse.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087541
PMCID: PMC3909123
PMID: 24498131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


274. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 3;9(2):e86858. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0086858.
eCollection  2014.

Cost-effectiveness and harm-benefit analyses of risk-based screening strategies 
for breast cancer.

Vilaprinyo E(1), Forné C(1), Carles M(2), Sala M(3), Pla R(4), Castells X(3), 
Domingo L(5), Rue M(6); Interval Cancer (INCA) Study Group.

Collaborators: Blanch J, Castells X, Comas M, Domingo L, Macià F, Martínez J, 
Rodríguez-Arana A, Román M, Romero A, Sala M, Alberich C, Casals M, Ibáñez J, 
Lluch A, Martínez I, Miranda J, Morales J, Salas D, Torrella A, Almazán R, Conde 
M, Corujo M, Belén Fernández A, Mosquera J, Sarandeses A, Vázquez M, Zubizarreta 
R, Barata T, de la Lastra ID, Reyes JM, Otegi A, Sarriugarte G, Baré M, Torà N, 
Ferrer J, Castanyer F, Renart G, Marcos-Gragera R, Puig-Vives M, Forné C, 
Martínez-Alonso M, Roso A, Rué M, Vilaprinyó E, Carles M, Gregori A, Pérez MJ, 
Pla R.

Author information:
(1)Basic Medical Sciences Department, Biomedical Research Institut of Lleida 
(IRBLLEIDA), Lleida, Catalonia, Spain ; Basic Medical Sciences Department, 
University of Lleida, Lleida, Catalonia, Spain.
(2)Economics Department and Research Centre on Industrial and Public Economics 
(CREIP), Rovira i Virgili University, Reus, Catalonia, Spain.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Evaluation, Institut Municipal d'Investigació 
Mèdica-Parc de Salut Mar, Mar Teaching Hospital, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain ; 
Health Services Research Network in Chronic Diseases (REDISSEC), Spain.
(4)Surgery Department, Rovira i Virgili University, Reus, Catalonia, Spain ; 
General and Digestive Surgery Department, Joan XXIII Teaching Hospital, 
Tarragona, Catalonia, Spain.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Evaluation, Institut Municipal d'Investigació 
Mèdica-Parc de Salut Mar, Mar Teaching Hospital, Barcelona, Catalonia, Spain.
(6)Basic Medical Sciences Department, Biomedical Research Institut of Lleida 
(IRBLLEIDA), Lleida, Catalonia, Spain ; Basic Medical Sciences Department, 
University of Lleida, Lleida, Catalonia, Spain ; Health Services Research 
Network in Chronic Diseases (REDISSEC), Spain.

The one-size-fits-all paradigm in organized screening of breast cancer is 
shifting towards a personalized approach. The present study has two objectives: 
1) To perform an economic evaluation and to assess the harm-benefit ratios of 
screening strategies that vary in their intensity and interval ages based on 
breast cancer risk; and 2) To estimate the gain in terms of cost and harm 
reductions using risk-based screening with respect to the usual practice. We 
used a probabilistic model and input data from Spanish population registries and 
screening programs, as well as from clinical studies, to estimate the benefit, 
harm, and costs over time of 2,624 screening strategies, uniform or risk-based. 
We defined four risk groups, low, moderate-low, moderate-high and high, based on 
breast density, family history of breast cancer and personal history of breast 
biopsy. The risk-based strategies were obtained combining the exam periodicity 
(annual, biennial, triennial and quinquennial), the starting ages (40, 45 and 50 
years) and the ending ages (69 and 74 years) in the four risk groups. 
Incremental cost-effectiveness and harm-benefit ratios were used to select the 
optimal strategies. Compared to risk-based strategies, the uniform ones result 
in a much lower benefit for a specific cost. Reductions close to 10% in costs 
and higher than 20% in false-positive results and overdiagnosed cases were 
obtained for risk-based strategies. Optimal screening is characterized by 
quinquennial or triennial periodicities for the low or moderate risk-groups and 
annual periodicity for the high-risk group. Risk-based strategies can reduce 
harm and costs. It is necessary to develop accurate measures of individual risk 
and to work on how to implement risk-based screening strategies.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0086858
PMCID: PMC3911927
PMID: 24498285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


275. PeerJ. 2014 Jan 22;2:e245. doi: 10.7717/peerj.245. eCollection 2014.

Perioperative morbidity and mortality of cardiothoracic surgery in patients with 
a do-not-resuscitate order.

Maxwell BG(1), Lobato RL(2), Cason MB(1), Wong JK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Critical Care Medicine , Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine , Baltimore , MD , USA.
(2)Department of Anesthesia , Cedars-Sinai Medical Center , Los Angeles, CA , 
USA.
(3)Department of Anesthesia , Stanford University School of Medicine , Stanford, 
CA , USA.

Background. Do-not-resuscitate (DNR) orders are often active in patients with 
multiple comorbidities and a short natural life expectancy, but limited 
information exists as to how often these patients undergo high-risk operations 
and of the perioperative outcomes in this population. Methods. Using 
comprehensive inpatient administrative data from the Public Discharge Data file 
(years 2005 through 2010) of the California Office of Statewide Health Planning 
and Development, which includes a dedicated variable recording DNR status, we 
identified cohorts of DNR patients who underwent major cardiac or thoracic 
operations and compared themto age- and procedure-matched comparison cohorts. 
The primary study outcome was in-hospital mortality. Results. DNR status was not 
uncommon in cardiac (n = 2,678, 1.1% of all admissions for cardiac surgery, age 
71.6 ± 15.9 years) and thoracic (n = 3,129, 3.7% of all admissions for thoracic 
surgery, age 73.8 ± 13.6 years) surgical patient populations. Relative to 
controls, patients who were DNR experienced significantly greater inhospital 
mortality after cardiac (37.5% vs. 11.2%, p < 0.0001 and thoracic (25.4% vs. 
6.4%) operations. DNR status remained an independent predictor of in-hospital 
mortality onmultivariate analysis after adjustment for baseline and comorbid 
conditions in both the cardiac (OR 4.78, 95% confidence interval 4.21-5.41, p < 
0.0001) and thoracic (OR 6.11, 95% confidence interval 5.37-6.94, p < 0.0001) 
cohorts. Conclusions. DNR status is associated with worse outcomes of 
cardiothoracic surgery even when controlling for age, race, insurance status, 
and serious comorbid disease. DNR status appears to be a marker of substantial 
perioperative risk, and may warrant substantial consideration when framing 
discussions of surgical risk and benefit, resource utilization, and biomedical 
ethics surrounding end-of-life care.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.245
PMCID: PMC3912447
PMID: 24498575

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no competing interests that 
would be relevant to this manuscript or subject area.


276. J Econ Entomol. 2013 Dec;106(6):2371-7. doi: 10.1603/ec13085.

Lethal and sublethal effects of fenpropathrin on the biological performance of 
Scolothrips longicornis (Thysanoptera: Thripidae).

Pakyari H(1), Enkegaard A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, Islamic Azad 
University, Takestan Branch, Iran. Pakyari@tiau.ac.ir
(2)Department of Agroecology, Research Centre Flakkebjerg, Aarhus-University, 
Science and Technology, DK-4200 Slagelse, Denmark.

Determination of negative nontarget effects of pesticides on beneficial 
organisms by measuring only lethal effects is likely to underestimate effects of 
sublethal doses. In this study, the sublethal effects of fenpropathrin on the 
predatory thrips Scolothrips longicornis Priesner (Thysanoptera: Thripidae) fed 
on Tetranychus urticae Koch (Acari: Tetranychidae) were evaluated under 
laboratory conditions. The estimated values of LC50 for female and male 
predators were 6.53 and 5.47 microg a.i./ml, respectively. Exposure to 
low-lethal concentrations (LC10, LC20, and LC30) of fenpropathrin significantly 
affected the biological characteristics of treated females of S. longicornis, 
the most noticeable effects being a shortening of female life span by > 70% 
accompanied by large reductions in oviposition period and fecundity. The 
offspring of females treated with low-lethal concentrations of fenpropathrin 
likewise had significantly reduced longevity, oviposition period, and fecundity, 
although not to the same extent as experienced by their mothers. Their juvenile 
development time was, however, not affected. These effects on the offspring were 
reflected in reduced rates of population increase and increased doubling times.

DOI: 10.1603/ec13085
PMID: 24498736 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


277. Int J Clin Pract. 2014 Apr;68(4):486-94. doi: 10.1111/ijcp.12341. Epub 2014
Feb  6.

Health-related quality of life (EQ-5D) among type 2 diabetes mellitus patients 
treated with dapagliflozin over 2 years.

Grandy S(1), Langkilde AM, Sugg JE, Parikh S, Sjöström CD.

Author information:
(1)AstraZeneca LP, Wilmington, DE, USA.

AIMS: This study evaluated health status and health-related quality of life 
(HRQOL) among patients with type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) treated with 
dapagliflozin, a highly selective sodium-glucose co-transporter 2 (SGLT2) 
inhibitor that lowers blood glucose by increasing glucose excretion, in a 
double-blind, randomised clinical trial.
METHODS: Subjects with T2DM who had inadequate glycaemic control on metformin 
alone were enrolled in a 24-week, double-blind, randomised, placebo-controlled 
study with a 78-week extension period to evaluate the effect of dapagliflozin in 
combination with metformin. Subjects treated with dapagliflozin 
10 mg + metformin (n = 89) were compared with subjects treated with 
placebo + metformin (n = 91) at baseline and at weeks 24, 50 and 102. EQ-5D 
change from baseline was derived from a repeated-measures mixed model, adjusting 
for baseline EQ-5D, treatment group, time point and use of rescue medication.
RESULTS: Mean (SD) EQ-5D index was 0.85 (0.16) and 0.82 (0.15) at baseline and 
0.85 (0.19) and 0.84 (0.19) at week 102 for dapagliflozin and placebo, 
respectively. The model indicated no change over 102 weeks in EQ-5D index scores 
in either treatment group. Mean (SD) EQ-5D visual analogue scale (VAS) was 72.5 
(19.5) and 73.7 (15.6) at baseline and 79.8 (13.3) and 78.2 (12.1) at week 102 
for dapagliflozin and placebo, respectively. The model indicated similar small 
improvements in EQ-5D VAS scores in both groups over 102 weeks.
CONCLUSION: Patients maintained high HRQOL scores from baseline through week 102 
in both treatment groups. Dapagliflozin, a novel SGLT2 inhibitor, did not 
adversely affect HRQOL over 2 years of treatment.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijcp.12341
PMID: 24499168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


278. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2014 Jan;30(1):10-19. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462313000640.

Responsiveness of the EQ-5D to clinical change: is the patient experience 
adequately represented?

Tordrup D, Mossman J, Kanavos P.

OBJECTIVES: In many economic evaluations and reimbursement decisions, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) are used as a measure of benefit to assess 
effectiveness of novel therapies, often based on the EQ-5D 3-level 
questionnaire. As only five dimensions of physical and mental well-being are 
reflected in this tool, significant aspects of the patient experience may be 
missed. We evaluate the use of the EQ-5D as a measurement of clinical change 
across a wide range of disorders from dermatological (acne) to life-threatening 
(metastatic cancers).
METHODS: We analyze published studies on the psychometric properties of the 
EQ-5D 3-level questionnaire, extracting information on the Visual Analogue Scale 
versus Index score, Standardized Response Mean, and Effect Size. These are 
compared with ranges generally accepted to represent good responsiveness in the 
psychometric literature.
RESULTS: We find that only approximately one in five study populations report 
subjective health state valuation of patients within 5 percent of the score 
attributed by the EQ-5D index, and more than 40 percent of studies report 
unacceptable ceiling effects. In the majority of studies, responsiveness of the 
EQ-5D index was found to be poor to moderate, based on Effect Size (63 percent 
poor–moderate) and Standardized Response Mean (72 percent poor–moderate).
CONCLUSIONS: We conclude that the EQ-5D index does not adequately reflect 
patient health status across a range of conditions, and it is likely that a 
significant proportion of the subjective patient experience is not accounted for 
by the index. This has implications for economic evaluations of novel drugs 
based on evidence generated with the EQ-5D.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462313000640
PMID: 24499622 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Drug Res (Stuttg). 2014 Dec;64(12):633-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1363965. Epub
2014  Feb 5.

Polypharmacy-induced drug-drug interactions; threats to patient safety.

Sharifi H(1), Hasanloei MA(2), Mahmoudi J(3).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Pharmacologist MD-PhD, Urmia University of Medical Sciences.
(2)Anesthesiologist-Fellowship of Intensive care Medicine - Assistant Professor 
of Urmia University of Medical Sciences.
(3)Neurosciences Research Center (NSRC), Tabriz University of Medical Sciences, 
Tabriz, Iran.

Patient safety is an increasingly recognized challenge and opportunity for 
stakeholders in improving health care delivery. Because of extensive use of 
medicines, life expectancy is increasing and elderly as well as comorbidities 
need polypharmacy, and therefore the risk of drug-drug interactions (DDIs) 
increases.We searched PubMed and ScienseDirect for epidemiology of articles 
describing the frequency of potential DDIs published up to 2011 in title, 
abstract, keywords and text.Studies show that the rate of DDIs both in 
outpatients and hospitalized patients is high. The elderly, <5 year-old children 
and women are at higher risks for it. Also, the rate of DDIs in patients who 
suffer from chronic kidney disease (CKD), cardiovascular disease (CVD) such as 
heart failure (HF) and hypertension (HTN) and cancers is significant.Physicians, 
for lowering the risk of DDIs, should take precise drug history, prescribe 
appropriate and lowest drugs and ultimately counsel with clinical pharmacologist 
as a key strategy in order to insure the patient safety. This article reviews 
the existing data concerning this problem to provide an aid for choosing the 
appropriate drugs and prescribe the most effective with the lowest DDIs for 
providing patient safety.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1363965
PMID: 24500732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014 Feb 6;2014(2):CD004260. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD004260.pub3.

Continuous passive motion following total knee arthroplasty in people with 
arthritis.

Harvey LA(1), Brosseau L, Herbert RD.

Author information:
(1)Rehabilitation Studies Unit, Sydney Medical School/Northern, The University 
of Sydney, PO Box 6, Ryde, NSW, Australia, 1680.

Update of
    Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2010;(3):CD004260.

BACKGROUND: Arthritis of the knee is a common problem causing pain and 
disability. If severe, knee arthritis can be surgically managed with a total 
knee arthroplasty. Rehabilitation following knee arthroplasty often includes 
continuous passive motion (CPM). CPM is applied by a machine that passively and 
repeatedly moves the knee through a specified range of motion (ROM). It is 
believed that CPM increases recovery of knee ROM and has other therapeutic 
benefits. However, it is not clear whether CPM is effective.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefits and harms of CPM and standard postoperative 
care versus similar postoperative care, with or without additional knee 
exercises, in people with knee arthroplasty. This review is an update of a 2003 
and 2010 version of the same review.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the following databases: the Cochrane Central 
Register of Controlled Trials (CENTRAL) (The Cochrane Library 2012, Issue 12), 
MEDLINE (January 1966 to 24 January 2013), EMBASE (January 1980 to 24 January 
2013), CINAHL (January 1982 to 24 January 2013), AMED (January 1985 to 24 
January 2013) and PEDro (to 24 January 2013).
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials in which the experimental group 
received CPM, and both the experimental and control groups received similar 
postoperative care and therapy following total knee arthroplasty in people with 
arthritis.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Two review authors independently selected trials 
for inclusion, extracted data and assessed risk of bias. The primary outcomes of 
interest were active knee flexion ROM, pain, quality of life, function, 
participants' global assessment of treatment effectiveness, incidence of 
manipulation under anaesthesia and adverse events. The secondary outcomes were 
passive knee flexion ROM, active knee extension ROM, passive knee extension ROM, 
length of hospital stay, swelling and quadriceps strength. We estimated effects 
for continuous data as mean differences or standardised mean differences (SMD), 
and effects for dichotomous data as risk ratios; all with 95% confidence 
intervals (CI). If appropriate, we performed meta-analyses using random-effects 
models.
MAIN RESULTS: We identified 684 papers from the electronic searches after 
removal of duplicates and retrieved the full reports of 62 potentially eligible 
trials. Twenty-four randomised controlled trials of 1445 participants met the 
inclusion criteria; four of these trials were new to this update.There was 
moderate-quality evidence to indicate that CPM does not have clinically 
important short-term effects on active knee flexion ROM: mean knee flexion was 
78 degrees in the control group, CPM increased active knee flexion ROM by 2 
degrees (95% CI 0 to 5) or absolute improvement of 2% (95% CI 0% to 4%). The 
medium- and long-term effects are similar although the quality of evidence is 
lower.There was low-quality evidence to indicate that CPM does not have 
clinically important short-term effects on pain: mean pain was 3 points in the 
control group, CPM reduced pain by 0.4 points on a 10-point scale (95% CI -0.8 
to 0.1) or absolute reduction of -4% (95% CI -8% to 1%).There was 
moderate-quality evidence to indicate that CPM does not have clinically 
important medium-term effects on function: mean function in the control group 
was 56 points, CPM decreased function by 1.6 points (95% CI -6.1 to 2.0) on a 
100-point scale or absolute reduction of -2% (95% CI -5% to 2%). The SMD was 
-0.1 standard deviations (SD) (95% CI -0.3 to 0.1).There was moderate-quality 
evidence to indicate that CPM does not have clinically important medium-term 
effects on quality of life: mean quality of life was 40 points in the control 
group, CPM improved quality of life by 1 point on a 100-point scale (95% CI -3 
to 4) or absolute improvement of 1% (95% CI -3% to 4%).There was very 
low-quality evidence to indicate that CPM reduces the risk of manipulation under 
anaesthesia; risk of manipulation in the control group was 7.2%, risk of 
manipulation in the experimental group was 1.6%, CPM decreased the risk of 
manipulation by 25 fewer manipulations per 1000 (95% CI 9 to 64) or absolute 
risk reduction of -4% (95% CI -8% to 0%). The risk ratio was 0.3 (95% CI 0.1 to 
0.9).There was low-quality evidence to indicate that CPM reduces the risk of 
adverse events; risk of adverse events in the control group was 16.3%, risk of 
adverse events in the experimental group was 17.9%, CPM decreased the risk of 
adverse event by 150 fewer adverse events per 1000 (95% CI 103 to 216) or 
absolute risk reduction of -1% (95% CI -5% to 3%). The risk ratio was 0.9 (95% 
CI 0.6 to 1.3). The estimates for risk of manipulation and adverse events are 
very imprecise and the estimate for the risk of adverse events does not 
distinguish between a clinically important increase and decrease in risk.There 
was insufficient evidence to determine the effect of CPM on participants' global 
assessment of treatment effectiveness.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: CPM does not have clinically important effects on active 
knee flexion ROM, pain, function or quality of life to justify its routine use. 
It may reduce the risk of manipulation under anaesthesia and risk of developing 
adverse events although the quality of evidence supporting these findings are 
very low and low, respectively. The effects of CPM on other outcomes are 
