
587. Curr Opin Oncol. 2014 May;26(3):265-73. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000066.

Therapeutic options and multifaceted treatment paradigms in metastatic 
castrate-resistant prostate cancer.

Vaishampayan U(1).

Author information:
(1)Karmanos Cancer Institute/Wayne State University, Detroit, Michigan, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The field of prostate cancer therapeutics has undergone a 
rapid and dramatic change in the last few years. Multiple agents with very 
distinct mechanisms of actions and unique toxicities and efficacies have become 
available for clinical use. The focus of this review is to give a summary of 
clinical perspectives of the indications, including pros and cons of the 
currently approved regimens. The next generation of novel targets and agents is 
also highlighted.
RECENT FINDINGS: Addition of docetaxel-based chemotherapy to conventional 
androgen suppression therapy in hormone sensitive advanced prostate cancer 
demonstrated overall survival benefit in recently released results of ECOG 3805. 
In castrate-resistant metastatic disease, development of novel immunotherapy 
(Sipuleucel T), chemotherapy (docetaxel and cabazitaxel), radiation (alpharadin) 
and hormone therapy (abiraterone and enzalutamide) agents has created a range of 
choices for treatment, palliation and improved life expectancy.
SUMMARY: A paradigm shift has occurred in the management of advanced prostate 
cancer, with multiple novel agents addressing distinct pathways, and 
demonstrating powerful efficacy. The judicious use of the available agents, with 
finesse of sequencing, and concomitant palliative care has prolonged survival 
and made living with the disease more reasonable and tolerable.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000066
PMCID: PMC4238025
PMID: 24626129 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


588. Rev Inst Med Trop Sao Paulo. 2014 Mar-Apr;56(2):127-32. doi: 
10.1590/S0036-46652014000200007.

Association between smoking, crack cocaine abuse and the discontinuation of 
combination antiretroviral therapy in Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.

Batista Jd(1), Albuquerque Mde F(2), Santos ML(2), Miranda-Filho Dde B(3), 
Lacerda HR(1), Maruza M(4), Moura LV(1), Coimbra I(3), Ximenes RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de Pernambuco, RecifePernambuco, Brazil, Universidade 
Federal de Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(2)Centro de Pesquisas Aggeu Magalhães/FIOCRUZ, RecifePernambuco, Brazil, Centro 
de Pesquisas Aggeu Magalhães/FIOCRUZ, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(3)Universidade de Pernambuco, RecifePernambuco, Brazil, Universidade de 
Pernambuco, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.
(4)Hospital Correia Picanço, Secretaria de Saúde, RecifePernambuco, Brazil, 
Hospital Correia Picanço, Secretaria de Saúde, Recife, Pernambuco, Brazil.

Despite the effectiveness of combination antiretroviral therapy in the treatment 
of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLWHA), nonadherence to medication has become a 
major threat to its effectiveness. This study aimed to estimate the prevalence 
of self-reported irregular use of antiretroviral therapy and the factors 
associated with such an irregularity in PLWHA. A cross-sectional study of PLWHA 
who attended two referral centers in the city of Recife, in Northeastern Brazil, 
between June 2007 and October 2009 was carried out. The study analyzed 
socioeconomic factors, social service support and personal habits associated 
with nonadherence to antiretroviral therapy, adjusted by multivariable logistic 
regression analysis. The prevalence of PLWHA who reported irregular use of 
combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) was 25.7%. In the final multivariate 
model, the irregular use of cART was associated with the following variables: 
being aged less than 40 years (OR = 1.66, 95%-CI: 1.29-2.13), current smokers 
(OR = 1.76, 95%-CI: 1.31-2.37) or former smokers (OR = 1.43, 95%-CI: 1.05-1.95), 
and crack cocaine users (OR = 2.79, 95%-CI: 1.24-6.32). Special measures should 
be directed towards each of the following groups: individuals aged less than 40 
years, smokers, former smokers and crack cocaine users. Measures for giving up 
smoking and crack cocaine should be incorporated into HIV-control programs in 
order to promote greater adherence to antiretroviral drugs and thus improve the 
quality of life and prolong life expectancy.

Apesar da eficácia da terapêutica antirretroviral combinada para o tratamento de 
pessoas vivendo com HIV/Aids, a não adesão aos medicamentos tem se tornado uma 
das maiores ameaças à efetividade dessa terapêutica. O objetivo desse estudo foi 
estimar a prevalência de uso irregular autorreferido da terapia antirretroviral 
e os fatores associados com essa irregularidade em pessoas vivendo com HIV. Foi 
realizado um estudo seccional de pessoas vivendo com HIV/Aids atendidas em dois 
centros de referência no Recife, Nordeste do Brasil, entre junho 2007 e outubro 
de 2009. Foram analisados os fatores socioeconômicos, de apoio social e de 
hábitos do indivíduo, ajustados através de análise de regressão logística 
multivariada. A prevalência de pessoas vivendo com HIV/Aids que relataram o uso 
irregular da terapia antirretroviral combinada (TARC) foi de 25,7%. No modelo 
multivariado final, o uso irregular da TARC esteve associado às seguintes 
variáveis: ter menos de 40 anos (OR = 1,66, IC95%: 1,29-2,13), fumantes (OR = 
1,76, IC95%: 1,31-2,37) ou ex-fumantes (OR = 1,43, IC95%: 1,05-1,95) e ser 
usuário de crack (OR = 2,79, IC95%: 1,24-6,32). Medidas especiais devem ser 
direcionadas para cada um dos seguintes grupos: adultos com menos de 40 anos, 
fumantes, ex-fumantes e usuários de crack. Ações voltadas para a cessação do 
tabagismo e do crack devem ser incorporadas ao programa de controle dos 
infectados pelo HIV, visando promover a maior adesão aos antirretrovirais e, 
consequentemente, aumentar a expectativa e a qualidade de vida.

DOI: 10.1590/S0036-46652014000200007
PMCID: PMC4085845
PMID: 24626414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors declared that 
there are no competing interests.


589. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2014 Jan;35(1):1-7.

[Health expenditures, income inequality, and the marginalization index in 
Mexico's health system].

[Article in Spanish]

Pinzón Florez CE(1), Reveiz L(2), Idrovo AJ(3), Reyes Morales H(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, México, cepinzon@gmail.com.
(2)Organización Panamericana de la Salud, Washington, D.C., Estados Unidos de 
América.
(3)Departamento de Salud Pública, Escuela de Medicina, Facultad de Salud, 
Universidad Industrial de Santander, Bucaramanga, Colombia.

OBJECTIVE: Evaluate the effect of the relationship among public health 
expenditures, income inequality, and the marginalization index on maternal and 
child mortality in Mexico, to determine the effect of these factors on health 
system performance from a technical efficiency perspective.
METHODS: An ecological study of 32 Mexican states. Correlations were estimated 
between maternal and infant mortality and public health expenditures in total 
per capita, federal per capita, and state per capita for the years 2000, 2005, 
and 2010 (Gini coefficient and marginalization index). Linear regressions were 
used to explore the association of these variables with health indicators in the 
state systems.
RESULTS: Negative correlations were observed for the marginalization index and 
Gini coefficient with regard to life expectancy at birth (-0.62 and -0.28 
respectively). Furthermore, there was a positive correlation of 0.59 between the 
marginalization index and infant mortality (P <0.05). Multiple linear regression 
models revealed a negative effect of the marginalization index and Gini 
coefficient on health out-comes. Federal funding had a positive effect on system 
performance in terms of health indicators.
CONCLUSIONS: Health system reform in Mexico has had a positive impact on the 
country's health indicators; federal financial investment seems to be effective 
in this regard. Social determinants have an important effect on health system 
performance, and analysis using multisectoral and multidisciplinary approaches 
are needed in addressing them.

PMID: 24626441 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


590. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 13;9(3):e91862. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091862. 
eCollection 2014.

Health and economic benefits of improved injury prevention and trauma care 
worldwide.

Kotagal M(1), Agarwal-Harding KJ(2), Mock C(3), Quansah R(4), Arreola-Risa C(5), 
Meara JG(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Washington, Program in Global Surgery 
and Social Change, Harvard Medical School, Seattle, Washington, United States of 
America.
(2)Department of Plastic and Oral Surgery, Boston Children's Hospital, Program 
in Global Surgery and Social Change, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America.
(3)Harborview Injury Prevention and Research Center, Harborview Medical Center, 
University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, United States of America.
(4)Department of Surgery, School of Medical Sciences, Kwame Nkrumah University 
of Science and Technology, Kumasi, Ghana.
(5)Department of Emergency Medicine, School of Medicine, Tecnologico de 
Monterrey, Monterrey, Mexico.

OBJECTIVES: Injury is a significant source of morbidity and mortality worldwide, 
and often disproportionately affects younger, more productive members of 
society. While many have made the case for improved injury prevention and trauma 
care, health system development in low- and middle-income countries is often 
limited by resources. This study aims to determine the economic benefit of 
improved injury prevention and trauma care in low- and middle-income countries.
METHODS: This study uses existing data on injury mortality worldwide from the 
2010 Global Burden of Disease Study to estimate the number of lives that could 
be saved if injury mortality rates in low- and middle-income countries could be 
reduced to rates in high-income countries. Using economic modeling--through the 
human capital approach and the value of a statistical life approach--the study 
then demonstrates the associated economic benefit of these lives saved.
RESULTS: 88 percent of injury-related deaths occur in low- and middle-income 
countries. If injury mortality rates in low- and middle-income countries were 
reduced to rates in high-income countries, 2,117,500 lives could be saved per 
year. This would result in between 49 million and 52 million disability adjusted 
life years averted per year, with discounting and age weighting. Using the human 
capital approach, the associated economic benefit of reducing mortality rates 
ranges from $245 to $261 billion with discounting and age weighting. Using the 
value of a statistical life approach, the benefit is between 758 and 786 billion 
dollars per year.
CONCLUSIONS: Reducing injury mortality in low- and middle-income countries could 
save over 2 million lives per year and provide significant economic benefit 
globally. Further investments in trauma care and injury prevention are needed.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091862
PMCID: PMC3953529
PMID: 24626472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Dr. Meara is on the 
editorial board of PLOS ONE. This does not alter the authors’ adherence to all 
the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. The authors otherwise have 
declared that no competing interests exist.


591. Am J Mens Health. 2014 Nov;8(6):503-9. doi: 10.1177/1557988314526750. Epub
2014  Mar 12.

Metabolic syndrome and military policemen's quality of life: an 
interdisciplinary comprehensive approach.

Braga Filho RT(1), D'Oliveira Júnior A(2).

Author information:
(1)Federal University of Bahia, Bahia, Brazil rtbfilho@uol.com.br.
(2)Federal University of Bahia, Bahia, Brazil.

Men generally have a lower life expectancy and higher mortality than women in 
nearly all age groups. Military police, whose main activity in Brazil is the 
maintenance of public order and the prevention of crimes and transgressions of 
the laws, is mostly composed of men; it is also a risky and stressful profession 
generally related to poor quality of life. Considering that risk factors for 
disease and death from cardiovascular causes--including the multiple risk factor 
metabolic syndrome-are mostly related to lifestyle and associated with impaired 
quality of life, this study aims to provide a theoretical basis for other 
studies about the prevalence of metabolic syndrome among police officers. In a 
theoretical study, the authors present an interdisciplinary review based on 
studies on the health and quality of life of men in general and policemen in 
their specificity; published studies were selected according to the key words: 
men, health, quality of life, police, metabolic syndrome; they should also have 
been published in the past 15 years and available in the Scientific Electronic 
Library Online--SciELO--and in the Public Medline--PubMed. In conclusion, 
military policemen have a risky profession, whose conditions may contribute to 
low quality of life, illness, and mortality from cardiovascular causes; these 
conditions indicate a need for the characterization of metabolic syndrome in 
this population as an important element for promotion of health. Studying these 
conditions may contribute to the adoption of comprehensive and continuing care 
for military policemen's integral health.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1557988314526750
PMID: 24626602 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Rheumatol Int. 2014 Nov;34(11):1505-11. doi: 10.1007/s00296-014-2980-8. Epub
 2014 Mar 14.

Effect of aquatic exercise on ankylosing spondylitis: a randomized controlled 
trial.

Dundar U(1), Solak O, Toktas H, Demirdal US, Subasi V, Kavuncu V, Evcik D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, Faculty of Medicine, 
Kocatepe University, 03200, Afyon, Turkey, umitftr@yahoo.com.

Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a chronic systemic inflammatory disease that 
affects mainly the axial skeleton and causes significant pain and disability. 
Aquatic (water-based) exercise may have a beneficial effect in various 
musculoskeletal conditions. The aim of this study was to compare the 
effectiveness of aquatic exercise interventions with land-based exercises 
(home-based exercise) in the treatment of AS. Patients with AS were randomly 
assigned to receive either home-based exercise or aquatic exercise treatment 
protocol. Home-based exercise program was demonstrated by a physiotherapist on 
one occasion and then, exercise manual booklet was given to all patients in this 
group. Aquatic exercise program consisted of 20 sessions, 5× per week for 4 
weeks in a swimming pool at 32-33 °C. All the patients in both groups were 
assessed for pain, spinal mobility, disease activity, disability, and quality of 
life. Evaluations were performed before treatment (week 0) and after treatment 
(week 4 and week 12). The baseline and mean values of the percentage changes 
calculated for both groups were compared using independent sample t test. Paired 
t test was used for comparison of pre- and posttreatment values within groups. A 
total of 69 patients with AS were included in this study. We observed 
significant improvements for all parameters [pain score (VAS) visual analog 
scale, lumbar flexion/extension, modified Schober test, chest expansion, bath AS 
functional index, bath AS metrology index, bath AS disease activity index, and 
short form-36 (SF-36)] in both groups after treatment at week 4 and week 12 (p < 
0.05). Comparison of the percentage changes of parameters both at week 4 and 
week 12 relative to pretreatment values showed that improvement in VAS (p < 
0.001) and bodily pain (p < 0.001), general health (p < 0.001), vitality (p < 
0.001), social functioning (p < 0.001), role limitations due to emotional 
problems (p < 0.001), and general mental health (p < 0.001) subparts of SF-36 
were better in aquatic exercise group. It is concluded that a water-based 
exercises produced better improvement in pain score and quality of life of the 
patients with AS compared with home-based exercise.

DOI: 10.1007/s00296-014-2980-8
PMID: 24626605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. An Bras Dermatol. 2014 Jan-Feb;89(1):141-3. doi:
10.1590/abd1806-4841.20142785.

Fabry disease: clinical and genotypic aspects of three cases in first degree 
relatives.

Silva LB(1), Badiz TC(2), Enokihara MM(3), Porro AM(4).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Dermatology 
Department, Graduate course in clinical dermatology, São PauloSP, Brazil, MD, 
Dermatologist - Graduate course in clinical dermatology, Dermatology Department, 
Escola Paulista de Medicina - Universidade Federal de São Paulo (EPM-UNIFESP) - 
São Paulo (SP), Brazil.
(2)Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Dermatology 
Department, Graduate course in Dermatoscopy, São PauloSP, Brazil, MD, 
Dermatologist - Graduate course in Dermatoscopy, Dermatology Department, Escola 
Paulista de Medicina - Universidade Federal de São Paulo (EPM-UNIFESP) - São 
Paulo (SP), Brazil.
(3)Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Dermatology 
and Pathology departments, São PauloSP, Brazil, MD, PhD - Dermatopathologist at 
the Dermatology and Pathology departments, Escola Paulista de Medicina - 
Universidade Federal de São Paulo (EPM-UNIFESP) - São Paulo (SP), Brazil.
(4)Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Escola Paulista de Medicina, Dermatology 
Department, São PauloSP, Brazil, MD, PhD - Adjunct Professor of the Dermatology 
Department, Escola Paulista de Medicina - Universidade Federal de São Paulo 
(EPM-UNIFESP) - São Paulo (SP), Brazil.

Fabry disease is an X-linked, lysosomal storage disease caused by the inherited 
deficiency of the enzyme α-galactosidase A. The diagnosis is usually late, with 
renal, cardiovascular and/or cerebral complications that reduce life expectancy. 
Angiokeratomas are asymptomatic lesions present as the initial manifestation and 
usually less appreciated. Their detection is important for early diagnosis and 
institution of treatment with enzyme replacement therapy, which prevents late 
complications reducing morbidity and mortality. We report a case of a male 
teenager with acroparestesias and angiokeratomas. Family medical research 
discovered that his mother and brother had similar signs and symptoms and that 
the three patients had the same mutation in the gene encoding the enzyme, 
confirming the diagnosis.

DOI: 10.1590/abd1806-4841.20142785
PMCID: PMC3938365
PMID: 24626659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interests: none


594. Stroke. 2014 Apr;45(4):1053-8. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.113.002910. Epub 2014
Mar  13.

Stroke thrombolysis: save a minute, save a day.

Meretoja A(1), Keshtkaran M, Saver JL, Tatlisumak T, Parsons MW, Kaste M, Davis 
SM, Donnan GA, Churilov L.

Author information:
(1)From the Florey Institute of Neuroscience and Mental Health, University of 
Melbourne, Melbourne, Australia (A.M., M.K., G.A.D., L.C.); Departments of 
Neurology and Medicine, Royal Melbourne Hospital, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Australia (A.M., S.M.D.); Department of Neurology, Helsinki 
University Central Hospital, Helsinki, Finland (A.M., T.T., M.K.); UCLA Stroke 
Center, Los Angeles, CA (J.L.S.); John Hunter Hospital and the Hunter Medical 
Research Institute, University of Newcastle, Newcastle, Australia (M.W.P.); and 
School of Mathematical and Geospatial Sciences, RMIT University, Melbourne, 
Australia (M.K., L.C.).

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Stroke thrombolysis is highly time-critical, but data on 
long-term effects of small reductions in treatment delays have not been 
available. Our objective was to quantify patient lifetime benefits gained from 
faster treatment.
METHODS: Observational prospective data of consecutive stroke patients treated 
with intravenous thrombolysis in Australian and Finnish centers (1998-2011; 
n=2258) provided distributions of age, sex, stroke severity, onset-to-treatment 
times, and 3-month modified Rankin Scale in daily clinical practice. Treatment 
effects derived from a pooled analysis of thrombolysis trials were used to model 
the shift in 3-month modified Rankin Scale distributions with reducing treatment 
delays, from which we derived the expected lifetime and level of long-term 
disability with faster treatment.
RESULTS: Each minute of onset-to-treatment time saved granted on average 1.8 
days of extra healthy life (95% prediction interval, 0.9-2.7). Benefit was 
observed in all groups: each minute provided 0.6 day in old severe (age, 80 
years; National Institutes of Health Stroke Scale [NIHSS] score, 20) patients, 
0.9 day in old mild (age, 80 years; NIHSS score, 4) patients, 2.7 days in young 
mild (age, 50 years; NIHSS score, 4) patients, and 3.5 days in young severe 
(age, 50 years; NIHSS score, 20) patients. Women gained slightly more than men 
over their longer lifetimes. In the whole cohort, each 15 minute decrease in 
treatment delay provided an average equivalent of 1 month of additional 
disability-free life.
CONCLUSIONS: Realistically achievable small reductions in stroke thrombolysis 
delays would result in significant and robust average health benefits over 
patients' lifetimes. The awareness of concrete importance of speed could promote 
practice change.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.113.002910
PMID: 24627114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Int J Prev Med. 2014 Feb;5(2):203-9.

Psychosocial Determinants of Health-Related Quality of Life of People Living 
with HIV/AIDS on Antiretroviral Therapy at Udupi District, Southern India.

Peter E(1), Kamath R(1), Andrews T(1), Hegde BM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Manipal University, Manipal, Karnataka, India.
(2)ART Centre, District Hospital, Udupi District, Karnataka, India.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy of people living with HIV/AIDS (PLHA) on 
antiretroviral therapy has appreciably increased. However, psychosocial 
challenges pose a great threat to their health-related quality of life (HRQOL). 
The aim of this study was to determine psychosocial factors influencing 
health-related quality of life of PLHA on antiretroviral therapy.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was conducted using convenience sampling to 
select 226 PLHA at District hospital. Demographic information was collected 
using a semistructured questionnaire. HRQOL was assessed using WHOQOL-HIV Bref. 
The Hospital Anxiety and Depression Scale, CAGE scale, and Multidimensional 
Scale of Perceived Social Support were used. One-way ANOVA was applied.
RESULTS: There was a significant difference in mean quality of life score with 
respect to level of anxiety in the physical (P < 0.001), psychological (P < 
0.001), level of independence (P < 0.001), social relationships (P = 0.047), 
environment (P < 0.001), and spirituality domain (P < 0.001). Significant 
difference in mean quality of life score was observed with respect to level of 
depression in physical (P = 0.003), psychological (P = 0.036), level of 
independence (P = 0.017), social relationships (P = 0.019), and spirituality (P 
= 0.001). Friend support was positively associated with HRQOL in physical (P < 
0.001), psychological (P < 0.001), level of independence (P = 0.013), social 
relationships (P < 0.001), environment (0.001), and spirituality domain (0.026). 
Family support was positively associated with HRQOL in physical (P = 0.001), 
psychological (P = 0.001), level of independence (P = 0.040), social 
relationships (P = 0.008), environment (0.001), and spirituality domain (0.026). 
A significant difference was observed with respect to affiliation to social 
organization in social relationships domain (P = 0.044).
CONCLUSIONS: Psychosocial challenges including anxiety, depression, and social 
support impact upon all domains of HRQOL of PLHA.

PMCID: PMC3950744
PMID: 24627748

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


596. J Dermatol. 2014 May;41(5):439-42. doi: 10.1111/1346-8138.12448. Epub 2014
Mar  15.

Case of giant basal cell carcinoma around the base of the penis in an elderly 
patient.

Suyama T(1), Teramoto Y, Yamamoto A, Kuroda I, Yoshikawa S, Kiyohara Y.

Author information:
(1)Division of Dermatology, Shizuoka Cancer Center Hospital, Shizuoka, Japan; 
Department of Dermatology, Saitama Medical University International Medical 
Center, Saitama, Japan.

We report a case of an 85-year-old man with a doughnut-shaped basal cell 
carcinoma around the base of the penis invading the cavernosum urethra. In cases 
in which curative resection is planned, the penis is resected, cystostomy is 
performed, and postoperative self-management is required. In line with the 
patient's wishes and the fact that he was an elderly person living alone without 
family support, we decided to perform penis-conserving surgery. Relapse occurred 
once, for which additional resection was conducted. Two years after the 
resection, there was no evidence of tumor recurrence. The therapeutic plan for 
elderly patients should be modified after considering the patient's social 
background, wishes, activity and life expectancy.

© 2014 Japanese Dermatological Association.

DOI: 10.1111/1346-8138.12448
PMID: 24628253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


597. J Vet Intern Med. 2014 May-Jun;28(3):749-61. doi: 10.1111/jvim.12340. Epub
2014  Mar 14.

Recommendations for management of equine athletes with cardiovascular 
abnormalities.

Reef VB(1), Bonagura J, Buhl R, McGurrin MK, Schwarzwald CC, van Loon G, Young 
LE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Studies-New Bolton Center, University of Pennsylvania 
School of Veterinary Medicine, Kennett Square, PA.

Murmurs and arrhythmias are commonly detected in equine athletes. Assessing the 
relevance of these cardiovascular abnormalities in the performance horse can be 
challenging. Determining the impact of a cardiovascular disorder on performance, 
life expectancy, horse and rider or driver safety relative to the owner's future 
expectations is paramount. A comprehensive assessment of the cardiovascular 
abnormality detected is essential to determine its severity and achieve these 
aims. This consensus statement presents a general approach to the assessment of 
cardiovascular abnormalities, followed by a discussion of the common murmurs and 
arrhythmias. The description, diagnosis, evaluation, and prognosis are 
considered for each cardiovascular abnormality. The recommendations presented 
herein are based on available literature and a consensus of the panelists. While 
the majority of horses with cardiovascular abnormalities have a useful 
performance life, periodic reexaminations are indicated for those with 
clinically relevant cardiovascular disease. Horses with pulmonary hypertension, 
CHF, or complex ventricular arrhythmias should not be ridden or driven.

Copyright © 2014 by the American College of Veterinary Internal Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jvim.12340
PMCID: PMC4895474
PMID: 24628586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. J Sex Med. 2014 May;11(5):1334-42. doi: 10.1111/jsm.12498. Epub 2014 Mar 14.

Quality of life and sexual function of patients following radical hysterectomy 
and vaginal extension.

Ye S(1), Yang J, Cao D, Zhu L, Lang J, Chuang LT, Shen K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Peking Union Medical College 
Hospital, Chinese Academy of Science, Peking Union Medical College, Beijing, 
China.

INTRODUCTION: Radical hysterectomy (RH) has negative consequences on sexual 
function due to a shortened vagina, vaginal dryness, and dyspareunia. 
Peritoneovaginoplasty aims to extend vagina by vesical peritoneum and anterior 
rectal wall to improve postoperative sexual function.
AIM: The aim of this study was to investigate whether vaginal extension can 
improve sexual function and quality of life and the problem of sexual 
dysfunction in early-stage cervical cancer survivors (CCSs) in China.
METHODS: Case-control and questionnaire-based methods were employed. Thirty-one 
patients who had undergone vaginal extension following RH and 28 patients with 
matching factors after RH alone were enrolled in the study.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Both groups were assessed retrospectively by 
questionnaires at least 6 months after treatment. The European Organization for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer Quality-of-Life questionnaire cervical cancer 
module and the Sexual Function Vaginal Changes Questionnaire are validated 
measurements for disease- and treatment-specific issues.
RESULTS: Vaginal length was 10.03 ± 1.26 cm and 5.92 ± 1.05 cm in study and 
control group, respectively (P < 0.05). In the study group, 67.7% patients and 
64.3% of control group resumed sexual activity at the time of interview, 
averaging 6 months between treatment and sexual activity. While difficulty 
emptying bladder, incomplete emptying, and constipation were the most commonly 
reported symptoms, no significant difference was observed regarding pelvic floor 
symptoms. Reduced vagina size and shortened vagina was significantly more 
prominent in the control group, whereas both group presented with hypoactive 
sexual desire (88.1%), orgasm dysfunction (71.8%), and low enjoyment or 
relaxation after sex (51.3%).
CONCLUSION: Shortened vagina was significantly less reported in study group, 
while no difference was observed in other sex-related dimensions. Vaginal 
extension does not worsen pelvic floor symptoms. Sexual rehabilitation 
interventions are of significance and should be paid more attention to the CCSs 
in China.

© 2014 International Society for Sexual Medicine.

DOI: 10.1111/jsm.12498
PMID: 24628816 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. J Ovarian Res. 2014 Mar 14;7:32. doi: 10.1186/1757-2215-7-32.

Expression and activity of Rac1 is negatively affected in the 
dehydroepiandrosterone induced polycystic ovary of mouse.

Maurya VK, Sangappa C, Kumar V, Mahfooz S, Singh A, Rajender S, Jha RK(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Life Science North 111B/101, CSIR-Central Drug 
Research Institute, B,S, 10/1, Sector-10, Jankipuram Extension, Sitapur Road, 
Lucknow 226031, India. rajesh_jha@cdri.res.in.

BACKGROUND: Polycystic ovarian syndrome (PCOS) is characterized by the presence 
of multiple follicular cysts, giving rise to infertility due to anovulation. 
This syndrome affects about 10% of women, worldwide. The exact molecular 
mechanism leading to PCOS remains obscure. RhoGTPase has been associated with 
oogenesis, but its role in PCOS remains unexplored. Therefore, we attempted to 
elucidate the Vav-Rac1 signaling in PCOS mice model.
METHODS: We generated a PCOS mice model by injecting dehydroepiandrosterone 
(DHEA) for a period of 20 days. The expression levels of Rac1, pRac1, Vav, pVav 
and Caveolin1 were analyzed by employing immuno-blotting and densitometry. The 
association between Vav and Rac1 proteins were studied by immuno-precipitation. 
Furthermore, we analyzed the activity of Rac1 and levels of inhibin B and 
17β-estradiol in ovary using biochemical assays.
RESULTS: The presence of multiple follicular cysts in ovary were confirmed by 
histology. The activity of Rac1 (GTP bound state) was significantly reduced in 
the PCOS ovary. Similarly, the expression levels of Rac1 and its phosphorylated 
form (pRac1) were decreased in PCOS in comparison to the sham ovary. The 
expression level and activity (phosphorylated form) of guanine nucleotide 
exchanger of Rac1, Vav, was moderately down-regulated. We observed comparatively 
increased expressions of Caveolin1, 17β-estradiol, and inhibin B in the 
polycystic ovary.
CONCLUSION: We conclude that hyperandrogenization (PCOS) by DHEA diminishes 
ovarian Rac1 and Vav expression and activity along with an increase in 
expression of Caveolin1. This is accompanied by an increase in the intra-ovarian 
level of '17 β-estradiol and inhibin B.

DOI: 10.1186/1757-2215-7-32
PMCID: PMC3995551
PMID: 24628852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. BMC Cancer. 2014 Mar 14;14:183. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-183.

GASTRICHIP: D2 resection and hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy in 
locally advanced gastric carcinoma: a randomized and multicenter phase III 
study.

Glehen O(1), Passot G, Villeneuve L, Vaudoyer D, Bin-Dorel S, Boschetti G, 
Piaton E, Garofalo A.

Author information:
(1)Hospices Civils de Lyon, Centre Hospitalier Lyon-Sud, Service de Chirurgie 
Viscérale et Endocrinienne, Pierre-Bénite Cedex 69495, France. 
olivier.glehen@chu-lyon.fr.

BACKGROUND: In Europe, gastric cancer remains diagnosed at advanced stage 
(serosal and/or lymph node involvement). Despite curative management combining 
perioperative systemic chemotherapy and gastrectomy with D1-D2 lymph node 
dissection, 5-year survival rates of T3 and/or N + patients remain under 30%. 
More than 50% of recurrences are peritoneal and/or locoregional. The use of 
adjuvant hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy that eliminates free cancer 
cells that can be released into peritoneal cavity during the gastrectomy and 
prevents peritoneal carcinomatosis recurrences, was extensively evaluated by 
several randomized trials conducted in Asia. Two meta-analysis reported that 
adjuvant hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy significantly reduces the 
peritoneal recurrences and significantly improves the overall survival. As it 
was previously done for the evaluation of the extension of lymph node 
dissection, it seems very important to validate on European or caucasian 
patients the results observed in trials performed in Asia.
METHODS/DESIGN: GASTRICHIP is a prospective, open, randomized multicenter phase 
III clinical study with two arms that aims to evaluate the effects of 
hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemotherapy with oxaliplatin on patients with 
gastric cancer involving the serosa and/or lymph node involvement and/or with 
positive cytology at peritoneal washing, treated with perioperative systemic 
chemotherapy and D1-D2 curative gastrectomy. Peroperatively, at the end of 
curative surgery, patients will be randomized after preoperatively written 
consent has been given for participation. Primary endpoint will be overall 
survival from the date of surgery to the date of death or to the end of 
follow-up (5 years). Secondary endpoint will be 3- and 5-year recurrence-free 
survival, site of recurrence, morbidity, and quality of life. An ancillary study 
will compare the incidence of positive peritoneal cytology pre- and 
post-gastrectomy in two arms of the study, and assess its impact on 5-year 
survival. The number of patients to be randomized was calculated to be 306.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: EudraCT number: 2012-005748-12, ClinicalTrials.gov 
identifier: NCT01882933.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-183
PMCID: PMC3995601
PMID: 24628950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Cardiol Young. 2015 Jan;25(1):149-50. doi: 10.1017/S1047951113002138. Epub
2013  Nov 21.

Slow pathway modulation in a patient with tricuspid valve atresia.

Frommeyer G(1), Milberg P(1), Eckardt L(1), Mönnig G(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Electrophysiology,Department of Cardiovascular Medicine,Division 
of Electrophysiology,University of Münster,Germany.

Owing to increased life expectancy, patients with grown-up congenital heart 
disease nowadays present various types of arrhythmias. We report treatment of a 
27-year-old patient with tricuspid and pulmonary atresia who was referred to our 
department with symptomatic tachycardia. During electrophysiologic study, a 
diagnosis of typical AV-nodal re-entrant tachycardia was made, and he was 
successfully treated despite the described anatomic malformation.

DOI: 10.1017/S1047951113002138
PMID: 24629166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Ugeskr Laeger. 2013 Nov 18;175(47):2870-3.

[The HIV population is aging].

[Article in Danish]

Hansen AB(1).

Author information:
(1)Lunge- og Infektionsmedicinsk Afdeling, Nordsjællands Hospital - Hillerød, 
Dyrehavevej 29, 3400 Hillerød. ann-brit.eg.hansen@regionh.dk.

The HIV population is aging due to increased life expectancy among HIV patients 
on antiretroviral therapy. 37% of Danish HIV patients are now older than 50 
years. Older age has implications for all stages of HIV care. Older patients are 
at higher risk of delayed HIV diagnosis and thereby less favourable prognosis. 
Factors related directly to HIV infection, lifestyle-related factors and 
co-infections contribute to increased prevalence of co-morbidity in older HIV 
patients, and medical treatments of co-morbidity together with three or more 
antiviral drugs increase the risk of polypharmacy.

PMID: 24629389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Ugeskr Laeger. 2014 Feb 3;176(3):253-7.

[HIV-positive individuals still have shorter life-expectancy than the general 
population].

[Article in Danish]

Ilett EE(1), Boysen T.

Author information:
(1)Jagtvej 120, 5-512, 2200 København N. emma.ilett@hotmail.com.

Despite more than 15 years of available highly active anti-retroviral therapy 
treatment, HIV-positive individuals still have a two-third shorter 
life-expectancy in comparison with the general population. Six studies of 
individuals with HIV (n = 235,854) were analysed with 7,898 deaths, of which 90% 
had a known cause. 42% were still due to AIDS, followed by liver-related deaths 
(12%), non-AIDS cancer (12%), cardiovascular disease (10%), 
suicide/overdose/accidents (8%), non-AIDS infection (7%) and other non-AIDS 
causes (11%). Recognising the causes of death among HIV-positive individuals may 
aid in reducing mortality.

PMID: 24629756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Fertil Steril. 2014 Jun;101(6):1565-73.e1-18. doi: 
10.1016/j.fertnstert.2014.02.008. Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Long-term treatment of uterine fibroids with ulipristal acetate ☆.

Donnez J(1), Vázquez F(2), Tomaszewski J(3), Nouri K(4), Bouchard P(5), Fauser 
BC(6), Barlow DH(7), Palacios S(8), Donnez O(9), Bestel E(10), Osterloh I(11), 
Loumaye E(12); PEARL III and PEARL III Extension Study Group.

Collaborators: Baranowski W, Barlow DH, Baró F, Barri PN, Bergeron C, Bestel E, 
Bouchard P, Brittain S, Hidalgo MJ, Carmona F, Dacquin A, Donnez J, Donnez O, 
Fauser BC, Ferenczy A, Giuliani A, Haya J, Huber J, Jakimiuk A, Jean FS, Jimenez 
JS, Kotarski J, Lemieszczuk B, Loumaye E, Nisolle M, Nouri K, Osterloh I, 
Palacios S, Pawlaczyk A, Sodowski K, Sozanski R, Suzin J, Terrill P, Tomaszewski 
J, Vázquez F, Villegas E, Williams AR.

Author information:
(1)Société de Recherche pour l'Infertilité, Brussels, Belgium. Electronic 
address: jacques.donnez@gmail.com.
(2)Centro de Estudios de Obstetricia y Ginecología Asociado, Lugo, Spain.
(3)Prywatna Klinika Polozniczo-Ginekologiczna, Bialystok, Poland.
(4)Department of Gynecological Endocrinology and Reproductive Medicine, Medical 
School of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(5)Endocrinology Unit, AP-HP Hospital Saint-Antoine, Paris, France.
(6)Department of Reproductive Medicine and Gynecology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(7)College of Medical, Veterinary, and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow, Scotland.
(8)Palacios' Institute of Women's Health, Madrid, Spain.
(9)Centre Hospitalier Universitaire Université Catholique de Louvain 
Mont-Godinne Dinant, Yvoir, Belgium.
(10)PregLem S.A., Geneva, Switzerland.
(11)OsterMed Ltd., Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(12)ObsEva S.A. Geneva, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the efficacy and safety of ulipristal acetate (UPA) 
for long-term treatment of symptomatic uterine fibroids.
DESIGN: Repeated intermittent open-label UPA courses, each followed by 
randomized double-blind norethisterone acetate (NETA) or placebo.
SETTING: European clinical gynecology centers.
PATIENT(S): Two hundred and nine women with symptomatic fibroids including heavy 
menstrual bleeding.
INTERVENTION(S): Patients received up to four 3-month courses of UPA 10 mg 
daily, immediately followed by 10-day double-blind treatment with NETA (10 mg 
daily) or placebo.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE(S): Amenorrhea, fibroid volume, endometrial histology.
RESULT(S): After the first UPA course, amenorrhea occurred in 79% of women, with 
median onset (from treatment start) of 4 days (interquartile range, 2-6 days). 
Median fibroid volume change was -45% (interquartile range, -66%; -25%). 
Amenorrhea rates were 89%, 88%, and 90% for the 131, 119, and 107 women who 
received treatment courses 2, 3, and 4, respectively. Median times to amenorrhea 
were 2, 3, and 3 days for treatment courses 2, 3, and 4, respectively. Median 
fibroid volume changes from baseline were -63%, -67%, and -72% after treatment 
courses 2, 3, and 4, respectively. All endometrial biopsies showed benign 
histology without hyperplasia; NETA did not affect fibroid volume or endometrial 
histology.
CONCLUSION(S): Repeated 3-month UPA courses effectively control bleeding and 
shrink fibroids in patients with symptomatic fibroids.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov (www.clinicaltrials.gov) 
registration numbers NCT01156857 (PEARL III) and NCT01252069 (PEARL III 
extension).

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fertnstert.2014.02.008
PMID: 24630081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Ugeskr Laeger. 2013 Oct 7;175(41):2395-8.

[More people live to be very old and with a better functioning].

[Article in Danish]

Christensen K(1), Jeune B, Andersen-Ranberg K, Vaupel JW.

Author information:
(1)Dansk Center for Aldringsforskning, Syddansk Universitet, J.B. Winsløws Vej 
9B, 5000 Odense C. kchristensen@health.sdu.dk

Death rates for 80+-year-olds are now half of what they were after WWII. The 
chance of living past 90 years has gone up by roughly 30% per decade for people 
born in Denmark in 1895, 1905, and 1915 - and the later cohorts are functioning 
better physically and cognitively. Centenarians are on average functioning 
physically and cognitively as well as 92-93-year-olds due to selective 
mortality. A steep increase in the frequency of hospitalization and surgical 
procedure among 85-100-year-olds is occurring, but there is a lack of knowledge 
about treatment effects and side effects among the oldest-old.

PMID: 24630191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Ugeskr Laeger. 2013 Oct 7;175(41):2399-401.

[Growing need for surgery as the number of elderly rises in Denmark].

[Article in Danish]

Neermark S(1), Bay-Nielsen M, Bisgaard T.

Author information:
(1)Gastroenheden, Hvidovre Hospital, Kettegård Alle 35, 2650 Hvidovre. 
soeren.neermark@hvh.regionh.dk

In Denmark, the elderly population is growing. In the article, data from the 
Danish Healthcare Registry (2005-2012) was summarized for hospital admissions 
and outpatient contacts with surgery in patients above 75 years. Also, the 
number of surgical procedures and surgical-related costs in 2020 were estimated 
based on demographic data and the rates surgery in 2012. The number of surgical 
procedures and surgical-related hospital costs will increase by 27.8% from 2012 
to 2020, corresponding to the increase in the number of elderly citizens. New 
strategies and further political prioritization is needed to meet the rising 
age-related challenges.

PMID: 24630192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Ugeskr Laeger. 2013 Oct 7;175(41):2411-3.

[Elderly in the intensive care unit].

[Article in Danish]

Liboriussen L(1), Tønnesen E, Christiansen CF.

Author information:
(1)Anæstesiologisk-intensiv Afdeling, Aarhus Universitetshospital, Nørrebrogade 
44, 8000 Aarhus C. lisblibo@rm.dk

The population is ageing and it is estimated that 25% of the population will be 
over 65 years in 2050, compared to 15% today. Therefore, the number of elderly 
patients requiring intensive care is expected to grow substantially over the 
next years. It is very difficult, but important to identify the elderly 
patients, who can benefit from intensive care. Age alone is a poor predictor 
while premorbid function, co-morbidity and the degree of critical illness are 
important predictors. The reason for admission to intensive care units has a 
major impact on the prognosis. It is shown that the prognosis after elective 
surgery is good, whereas the prognosis after admitting for acute surgery or 
medical reasons is bad.

PMID: 24630195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Cell. 2014 Mar 13;156(6):1167-1178. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2014.01.061.

Hexosamine pathway metabolites enhance protein quality control and prolong life.

Denzel MS(1), Storm NJ(1), Gutschmidt A(2), Baddi R(1), Hinze Y(1), Jarosch 
E(3), Sommer T(4), Hoppe T(2), Antebi A(5).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing, Joseph-Stelzmann-Strasse 9b, 
Cologne 50931, Germany.
(2)Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated 
Diseases (CECAD), University of Cologne, Cologne 50674, Germany; Institute for 
Genetics, University of Cologne, Zülpicher Strasse 47a, Cologne 50674, Germany.
(3)Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Strasse 10, 
Berlin-Buch 13125, Germany.
(4)Max-Delbrück-Center for Molecular Medicine, Robert-Rössle-Strasse 10, 
Berlin-Buch 13125, Germany; Humboldt-University Berlin, Institute of Biology, 
Invalidenstrasse 43, Berlin 10115, Germany.
(5)Max Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing, Joseph-Stelzmann-Strasse 9b, 
Cologne 50931, Germany; Department of Molecular and Cellular Biology, Huffington 
Center on Aging, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Houston, 
TX 77030, USA; Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in 
Aging-Associated Diseases (CECAD), University of Cologne, Cologne 50674, 
Germany. Electronic address: antebi@age.mpg.de.

Comment in
    Cell. 2014 Mar 13;156(6):1125-7.

Aging entails a progressive decline in protein homeostasis, which often leads to 
age-related diseases. The endoplasmic reticulum (ER) is the site of protein 
synthesis and maturation for secreted and membrane proteins. Correct folding of 
ER proteins requires covalent attachment of N-linked glycan oligosaccharides. 
Here, we report that increased synthesis of N-glycan precursors in the 
hexosamine pathway improves ER protein homeostasis and extends lifespan in C. 
elegans. Addition of the N-glycan precursor N-acetylglucosamine to the growth 
medium slows aging in wild-type animals and alleviates pathology of distinct 
neurotoxic disease models. Our data suggest that reduced aggregation of 
metastable proteins and lifespan extension depend on enhanced ER-associated 
protein degradation, proteasomal activity, and autophagy. Evidently, hexosamine 
pathway activation or N-acetylglucosamine supplementation induces distinct 
protein quality control mechanisms, which may allow therapeutic intervention 
against age-related and proteotoxic diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2014.01.061
PMID: 24630720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Lancet. 2014 Apr 12;383(9925):1278-1279. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60155-0.
 Epub 2014 Mar 13.

Chronic kidney disease and the ageing population.

Tonelli M(1), Riella M(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of Alberta, Alberta, T6G 2C3, Canada. 
Electronic address: sophie@worldkidneyday.org.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Catholic University of Parana, Curitiba, Brazil.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60155-0
PMID: 24630776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Int J Med Microbiol. 2014 May;304(3-4):415-21. doi:
10.1016/j.ijmm.2014.02.008.  Epub 2014 Feb 19.

Prevalence and persistence of Escherichia coli in the airways of cystic fibrosis 
patients - an unrecognized CF pathogen?

Barillova P(1), Tchesnokova V(2), Dübbers A(3), Küster P(4), Peters G(5), 
Dobrindt U(6), Sokurenko EV(2), Kahl BC(7).

Author information:
(1)Medical Microbiology, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany; 
Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(2)Department of Microbiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(3)Department of Pediatrics, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, Clemenshospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany.
(5)Medical Microbiology, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany.
(6)Institute of Hygiene, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany.
(7)Medical Microbiology, University Hospital Muenster, Muenster, Germany. 
Electronic address: kahl@uni-muenster.de.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) patients suffer from chronic recurrent bacterial airway 
infections, which eventually lead to reduced life expectancy. Escherichia coli 
has not been considered as a CF pathogen. A total of 176 patients were observed 
over 5.6 years on average from 2002 to 2009 in two CF centers in Muenster, 
Germany. Sputum and throat swab cultures were screened for E. coli. E. coli 
isolates were analyzed for clinical microbiologic characteristics as well as 
strain identity, clonal distribution and phenotypic variability. In 45 patients 
(25.6%) E. coli was cultured at least once, mostly at medium to high bacterial 
load and primarily from patients less than 5 and older than 8 years. In 19 
patients (10.8%) the same E. coli strain was isolated at least 3 times within a 
period of more than 6 months, with a mean persistence of 29 months. Multi-locus 
sequence typing revealed a distinctively strong association of CF E. coli with 
the B2 major clonal group. During persistence, long-term colonizing strains 
exhibited phenotypic variability known for typical CF pathogens such as surface 
capsule overproduction and changes in colony size or hemolytic activity. E. coli 
was occasionally or persistently isolated in a quarter of CF patients, mostly in 
very young or older patients. The relatively high bacterial load of E. coli 
colonization, the distinct association with the highly virulent extra-intestinal 
B2 clonal group and phenotypic variability in the long-term colonizing strains 
suggests a previously unrecognized clinical significance of E. coli as a CF 
pathogen.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier GmbH. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijmm.2014.02.008
PMID: 24630795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Crohns Colitis. 2014 Dec;8(12):1610-5. doi: 10.1016/j.crohns.2014.02.018.
Epub  2014 Mar 14.

Tailoring Crohn's disease treatment: the impact of small bowel capsule 
endoscopy.

Cotter J(1), Dias de Castro F(2), Moreira MJ(3), Rosa B(4).

Author information:
(1)Gastroenterology Department, Centro Hospitalar do Alto Ave, Guimarães, 
Portugal; Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Health 
Sciences, University of Minho, 4710-057 Braga, Portugal; ICVS/3B's, PT 
Government Associate Laboratory, 4710-057 Guimarães, Braga, Portugal. Electronic 
address: jcotter@chaa.min-saude.pt.
(2)Gastroenterology Department, Centro Hospitalar do Alto Ave, Guimarães, 
Portugal. Electronic address: franciscacastro@chaa.min-saude.pt.
(3)Gastroenterology Department, Centro Hospitalar do Alto Ave, Guimarães, 
Portugal. Electronic address: mj.moreira@netcabo.pt.
(4)Gastroenterology Department, Centro Hospitalar do Alto Ave, Guimarães, 
Portugal. Electronic address: brunorosa@chaa.min-saude.pt.

Comment in
    J Crohns Colitis. 2014 Dec;8(12):1598-600.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Small bowel capsule endoscopy (SBCE) may detect proximal 
small bowel lesions that have been previously missed by ileocolonoscopy and 
small bowel imaging in patients with known ileal and/or colonic Crohn's disease 
(CD). We aimed to evaluate whether the therapeutic management is influenced by 
SBCE findings.
METHODS: Retrospective single center study. Inclusion of consecutive patients 
with known non-stricturing and non-penetrating ileal and/or colonic CD, 
submitted to SBCE to evaluate disease extension and activity, with ≥ 1 year 
follow-up. Lesions were classified with the Lewis score (LS) as non-significant 
(LS<135), mild (135≤LS≤790), or moderate-to-severe (LS>790). Therapeutic changes 
were assessed three months after SBCE.
RESULTS: Fifty consecutive patients (35±13 years, 52% females) were included. At 
