medications people take while there is no shortage of human suffering to 
alleviate. It is doubtful whether big pharmaceutical firms will be able to 
pursue these goals within the old model of developing exclusive new drugs that 
can be sold further in the future. In the past, medicines for the ailments that 
were never before addressed, like anti-cholesterol or anti-depression drugs were 
developed. Currently, and in the future, it is expected that only blockbuster 
modifications will be developed. This phenomenon is expected to create market 
saturation, which will significantly reduce profits. The business model that 
drove the major drug makers' success is not working anymore. Pharmaceutical 
companies must create new ways and to bring new ideas. The survivors will be 
those that market strategies supported by innovative approaches and winning 
capabilities.

DOI: 10.5455/msm.2013.25.286-290
PMCID: PMC3914743
PMID: 24511277


303. Am J Manag Care. 2013 Dec;19(12):976-85.

Cost utility of hub-and-spoke telestroke networks from societal perspective.

Demaerschalk BM(1), Switzer JA, Xie J, Fan L, Villa KF, Wu EQ.

Author information:
(1)Divisions of Vascular, Hospital, and Critical Care Neurology, Department of 
Neurology, Mayo Clinic, 5777 E Mayo Blvd, Phoenix, AZ 85054. E-mail: 
demaerschalk.bart@mayo.edu.

BACKGROUND: A hub-and-spoke telestroke network is an effective way to extend 
quality emergency stroke care to remote hospitals and improve patient outcomes.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost utility of a telestroke network in the 
management of acute ischemic stroke from the societal perspective.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: A lifetime Markov model was developed to compare the 
incremental costs and effectiveness of a telestroke network. One-year transition 
probabilities between the 3 health states based on the modified Rankin 
scale--minimal-to-no disability, moderate-to-severe disability, and death--were 
derived from literature. Costs included telemedicine setup and maintenance, 
initial and recurrent stroke treatment, rehabilitation, long-term care, and 
caregiver costs. Effectiveness was defined as quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). Model inputs were obtained from the literature supplemented by data 
from Georgia Health Sciences University and Mayo Clinic. The base case network 
included 1 hub and 7 spokes, and assumed no survival benefits from acute 
treatment in a network. One-way sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: Compared with no network, patients treated in a telestroke network 
incurred $1436 lower costs and gained 0.02 QALYs over a lifetime. Incremental 
costs decreased from $444 for the first year to -$1436 over a lifetime; 
incremental QALYs increased from 0.002 for the first year to 0.02 over a 
lifetime. Overall, results were robust in the 1-way sensitivity analyses. A 
telestroke network became less cost-effective with increasing spoke-to-hub 
transfer rates.
CONCLUSIONS: A telestroke network is cost savingand more effective compared with 
no network from the societal perspective in most modeled scenarios.

PMID: 24512034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Am J Prev Med. 2014 Mar;46(3 Suppl 1):S7-15. doi:
10.1016/j.amepre.2013.10.029.

Age and cancer risk: a potentially modifiable relationship.

White MC(1), Holman DM(2), Boehm JE(2), Peipins LA(2), Grossman M(2), Henley 
SJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic 
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia. Electronic 
address: mxw5@cdc.gov.
(2)Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic 
Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, CDC, Atlanta, Georgia.

This article challenges the idea that cancer cannot be prevented among older 
adults by examining different aspects of the relationship between age and 
cancer. Although the sequential patterns of aging cannot be changed, several 
age-related factors that contribute to disease risk can be. For most adults, age 
is coincidentally associated with preventable chronic conditions, avoidable 
exposures, and modifiable risk behaviors that are causally associated with 
cancer. Midlife is a period of life when the prevalence of multiple cancer risk 
factors is high and incidence rates begin to increase for many types of cancer. 
However, current evidence suggests that for most adults, cancer does not have to 
be an inevitable consequence of growing older. Interventions that support 
healthy environments, help people manage chronic conditions, and promote healthy 
behaviors may help people make a healthier transition from midlife to older age 
and reduce the likelihood of developing cancer. Because the number of adults 
reaching older ages is increasing rapidly, the number of new cancer cases will 
also increase if current incidence rates remain unchanged. Thus, the need to 
translate the available research into practice to promote cancer prevention, 
especially for adults at midlife, has never been greater.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amepre.2013.10.029
PMCID: PMC4544764
PMID: 24512933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Encephale. 2015 Apr;41(2):130-6. doi: 10.1016/j.encep.2013.10.005. Epub 2014
Feb  7.

[Pseudodementia, what are we talking about? Part I: In search of Wernicke's 
pseudodementia].

[Article in French]

Vinet-Couchevellou M(1), Sauvagnat F(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinique mutualiste Bénigne-Joly, allée Roger-Renard, BP 39, 21141 Talant 
cedex, France; EA 4050, laboratoire de recherches en psychopathologie : nouveaux 
symptômes et lien social, université de Rennes 2, Rennes, France. Electronic 
address: vinet.c.m@gmail.com.
(2)EA 4050, laboratoire de recherches en psychopathologie : nouveaux symptômes 
et lien social, université de Rennes 2, Rennes, France; Unité 6053 du CNRS, 
Université Paris 7, Paris, France.

OBJECTIVE: The authors explore the history of pseudodementia in the elderly; an 
issue with growing momentum in a world where life duration expectancy has been 
constantly growing and the management and treatments of dementias has imposed an 
equally increasing burden. Although the issue is mainly therapeutic, some of the 
main tenets of the current approaches rest heavily on historical issues. The 
invention of the term pseudodementia (Pseudodemenz) is usually credited to 
Wernicke. However, the exact circumstances and the debates that have accompanied 
the emergence of the term have never been fully uncovered, and the references 
are not accurate. Most of the recent literature cites Kiloh as the key influence 
in structuring the current uses of the term, but the relationship between both 
sources is not clear.
METHODOLOGY: A research of anteriority has been conducted on the basis of 
Medline via Pubmed, PsychINFO and google book, using the following keywords: 
pseudodementia, pseudodementia, depressive pseudodementia, pseudodémence, 
Pseudodemenz. We have researched the quotations to localize the origin of the 
concept. Complementarily, we have attempted to clarify the nature of the debates 
by exploring the relevant German psychiatric literature at the end of the XIXth 
century and the beginning of the XXth.
RESULTS: We have found that the very first occurrences of the notion appeared in 
a debate between the following authors: Ganser S.J.M. 1898, 1903; Wernicke C. 
1898; Raecke J. 1901; Nissl F. 1902; Jung C.G. 1902, 1903; Stertz G. 1910; 
Bonhoeffer K. 1911; Schuppius S. 1914. We found that the term Pseudodemenz never 
appears in Wernicke's written works, although he was credited of its invention 
by his most direct students. It seems that the term was thought by the time it 
emerged to have originated in Wernicke's discussion of Ganser's syndrome.
DISCUSSION: Ganser's syndrome, often defined as carceral psychosis, is a 
specific hysterical twilight state characterized by "talking past the point" 
(Vorbeireden), amnesia and hysterical stigmas, in which some trauma was thought 
to be causative. Wernicke presented it as determined by a "restriction of the 
field of consciousness", echoing Janet's theory (École de la Salpêtrière). He 
rejected the twilight characteristic: this differential point seems to have 
initiated the introduction of the concept of pseudodementia. Raecke argued that 
such states should not be understood as forms of simulation thus contributing to 
a heated debate of the time. Referring to Janet's works and expanding the 
syndrome of "traumatic hysteria", he argued in favor of a specific inhibiting 
factor which disturbs the process of associations. Jung, refusing Nissl's 
article dismissing Ganser, Wernicke and Raecke's views, confirmed the hysterical 
hypothesis. In a new contribution to the debate, Ganser contested Wernicke's 
differential point, arguing that in Vorbeireden, there was a Benommenheit - some 
sort of giddiness - and a "superficiality of the contents of consciousness" 
rather than a limitation of consciousness. It has been rightly argued that 
Wernicke's view of the pseudodementia issues was mainly related to the debates 
on hysteria and trauma, and that no relationship with old age symptomatology was 
established by him. However, we have found that he alluded to at least one case 
in which such a relationship was hypothesized. Moreover, one should note that 
Wernicke's views on hysteria included the rather pervasive notion of "hysterical 
psychosis", exhibiting "allopsychosis", which could include what would nowadays 
be seen as schizophrenia or psychotic mood disorders.
CONCLUSIONS: First of all, the term Pseudodemenz, if it was ever used by 
Wernicke verbally, never appears in his published works. Besides, the debates 
concerning Ganser's syndrome, which served as a first paradigm to discuss 
pseudodementia, were highly influenced by the discussions on traumatic 
disorders, hysteria and simulation. Finally, although no direct connection is 
made between disorders of the senium and Pseudodemenz, the fact that Wernicke 
included both in what he termed "allopsychic disorders" seemed to indicate that 
some kind of relationship could not be absolutely excluded in Wernicke's mind.

Copyright © 2013 L’Encéphale, Paris. Published by Elsevier Masson SAS. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.encep.2013.10.005
PMID: 24513017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Acta Trop. 2014 Apr;132 Suppl:S164-9. doi:
10.1016/j.actatropica.2013.09.024.  Epub 2013 Oct 25.

Release of thiotepa sterilized males into caged populations of Aedes aegypti: 
life table analysis.

Gato R(1), Companioni A(2), Bruzón RY(2), Menéndez Z(2), González A(2), 
Rodríguez M(2).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Medicina Tropical Pedro Kourí, Cuba. Electronic address: 
rene@ipk.sld.cu.
(2)Instituto de Medicina Tropical Pedro Kourí, Cuba.

Successful SIT trials against mosquitoes in the 1960-70s were achieved by 
sterilizing male mosquitoes using chemosterilants. Their use was discontinued 
after concerns were raised about the effect of residues on non-target organisms, 
although scant evidence has been published. Irradiation is an expensive process; 
chemosterilization could be an affordable option for implementing SIT programs 
in developing countries. We compare life table parameters of three Aedes aegypti 
populations comprising different ratios of thiotepa-treated and non-treated 
males in order to identify the impact on reproductive potential of the presence 
of sterile males. No difference was observed in the survival of the treated and 
untreated males. The release of thiotepa sterilized males into caged Ae. aegypti 
populations had no effect on death or survival probability of the individuals in 
the cages but the fecundity of females was significantly reduced, as evaluated 
by hatch rate and stable age structure parameters. The significant decreases in 
net reproduction rate, finite rate of natural increase and intrinsic rate of 
natural increase in populations including sterile males are sufficient to 
indicate that such populations would not be able to proliferate in natural 
conditions. This suggests that release of Ae. aegypti thiotepa-treated males 
could be effective in reducing the reproductive capability of the target 
population and consequently contribute to vector control.

Copyright © 2013 International Atomic Energy Agency 2013. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2013.09.024
PMID: 24513037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Thromb Res. 2014 Nov;134 Suppl 1:S4-9. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2013.10.020.
Epub  2014 Feb 7.

The history of haemophilia - a short review.

Schramm W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department for Transfusion Medicine and Haemostaseology, Ludwig Maximilian's 
University Hospital, Ziemsenstrasse 1, 80338 Munich, Germany. Electronic 
address: w.schramm@med.uni-muenchen.de.

The history of haemophilia dates back to the 2nd century AD, with the first 
"modern" descriptions of the condition appearing during the 1800s. At that time, 
transfusion medicine and haemophilia became closely linked, with blood 
transfusion being the only possible treatment option. A turning point in the 
history of haemophilia came in the middle of the 20th century when researchers 
identified an "antihaemophilic globulin" that could reduce the clotting time in 
haemophilic blood, thereby paving the way for the introduction of 
cryoprecipitate and the first clotting factor concentrates for the treatment of 
haemophilia A, haemophilia B and von Willebrand disease. The availability of 
pasteurized, and therefore virus-safe, plasma-derived, clotting factor 
concentrates, such as Haemate P(®) and Beriate(®) P in Germany and other 
countries, dramatically improved the quality of life and life expectancy of 
haemophilia patients. These and other treatment advances enabled home treatment, 
with many centres introducing prophylaxis to younger patients. Today, thanks to 
the support from patient organizations, such as the German Haemophilia Society, 
which was founded by Prof. Rudolf Marx from Munich, haemophilia patients can be 
assured of good bleeding control using products with established efficacy and 
safety profiles. Work on improving factor concentrates continues, with efforts 
directed towards extending their half-lives using recombinant albumin-fused 
proteins and other modern technologies. The past 20 years has witnessed major 
improvements in almost all aspects of haemophilia treatment. It is hoped the 
next 20 years will add promising new chapters to the haemophilia book of 
history.

© 2013.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2013.10.020
PMID: 24513149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Consult Pharm. 2014 Feb;29(2):110-23. doi: 10.4140/TCP.n.2014.110.

Glycemic targets and medication limitations for type 2 diabetes mellitus in the 
older adult.

Thompson AM(1), Linnebur SA(2), Vande Griend JP(3), Saseen JJ(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Wyoming School of Pharmacy, Laramie, Wyoming.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, University of Colorado Skaggs School of 
Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Aurora, Colorado.
(3)Departments of Clinical Pharmacy and Family Medicine, University of Colorado 
Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Sciences.

OBJECTIVE: To review the optimal management of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) 
in the older adult.
DATA SOURCES: A PubMed search was completed to identify publications in the 
English language from 1947 to 2013 using combinations of the search terms: 
geriatrics, aged, diabetes mellitus, and type 2 diabetes mellitus. References of 
articles were also reviewed for inclusion if not identified in the PubMed 
search.
STUDY SELECTION AND DATA EXTRACTION: Original studies, clinical reviews, and 
guidelines were identified and evaluated for clinical relevance.
DATA SYNTHESIS: Although the number of older adults with T2DM is growing, 
evidence for the treatment of T2DM in this population is lacking. Barriers such 
as polypharmacy, comorbid conditions, economic limitations, cognitive 
impairment, and increased risk of hypoglycemia may limit optimal glycemic 
control in older adults. Several organizations provide recommendations for 
glycemic targets and recommend using standard glycemic goals in most healthy 
older adults. However, less stringent goals are necessary in certain older 
populations such as those patients with limited life expectancy and severe 
hypoglycemia. In general, glycemic goals should be individualized in older 
patients. Age-related pharmacokinetic and pharmacodynamic changes, comorbid 
conditions, adverse drug reactions, ease of medication administration, and cost 
of medications necessitate the need to individualize pharmacologic therapy.
CONCLUSION: Glycemic targets and medication use for T2DM should be 
individualized in older adults.

DOI: 10.4140/TCP.n.2014.110
PMID: 24513421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Aug;43(4):1154-62. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyu011. Epub 2014
Feb  10.

Fetuses-at-risk, to avoid paradoxical associations at early gestational ages: 
extension to preterm infant mortality.

Auger N(1), Gilbert NL(2), Naimi AI(3), Kaufman JS(3).

Author information:
(1)Institut national de sante publique du Québec, Montréal, Québec, Canada, 
Research Centre of the University of Montréal Hospital Centre, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada, Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada, Maternal and Infant Health Section, Public Health 
Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada and Department of Epidemiology, 
Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, 
CanadaInstitut national de sante publique du Québec, Montréal, Québec, Canada, 
Research Centre of the University of Montréal Hospital Centre, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada, Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada, Maternal and Infant Health Section, Public Health 
Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada and Department of Epidemiology, 
Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, 
CanadaInstitut national de sante publique du Québec, Montréal, Québec, Canada, 
Research Centre of the University of Montréal Hospital Centre, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada, Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada, Maternal and Infant Health Section, Public Health 
Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada and Department of Epidemiology, 
Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada nathalie.auger@inspq.qc.ca.
(2)Institut national de sante publique du Québec, Montréal, Québec, Canada, 
Research Centre of the University of Montréal Hospital Centre, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada, Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada, Maternal and Infant Health Section, Public Health 
Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada and Department of Epidemiology, 
Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, 
CanadaInstitut national de sante publique du Québec, Montréal, Québec, Canada, 
Research Centre of the University of Montréal Hospital Centre, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada, Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada, Maternal and Infant Health Section, Public Health 
Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada and Department of Epidemiology, 
Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada.
(3)Institut national de sante publique du Québec, Montréal, Québec, Canada, 
Research Centre of the University of Montréal Hospital Centre, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada, Department of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Montréal, 
Montréal, Québec, Canada, Maternal and Infant Health Section, Public Health 
Agency of Canada, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada and Department of Epidemiology, 
Biostatistics and Occupational Health, McGill University, Montréal, Québec, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: Fetuses-at-risk denominators are commonly used in research on 
preterm stillbirth, but applications to postnatal outcomes such as preterm 
infant mortality are controversial. We evaluated whether biased associations 
between maternal risk factors and preterm infant mortality caused by 
stratification by preterm birth could be avoided using fetuses-at-risk risk 
ratios.
METHODS: Data included 3 277 570 births drawn from the linked live birth-death 
file for Canada from 1990 through 2005. We used maternal age as the risk factor, 
and estimated the association with stillbirth, early neonatal, late neonatal and 
postneonatal mortality by gestational interval (22-24, 25-27, 28-31, 32-36, ≥37 
weeks). Models were run using (i) log-binomial regression stratified by preterm 
gestational age, and (ii) unstratified log-binomial regression using 
fetuses-at-risk denominators.
RESULTS: Extremes of maternal age were associated with higher mortality among 
term births. Among preterm births, the stratified model suggested a protective, 
null or attenuated association of extremes of maternal age with stillbirth, 
early, late and post neonatal mortality. The unstratified fetuses-at-risk model, 
however, resulted in the expected higher risk of mortality at extremes of 
maternal age for all outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Fetuses-at-risk regression can avoid paradoxical associations 
between maternal exposures and mortality of infants born early in gestation, 
caused by preterm birth stratification bias. The fetuses-at-risk approach can be 
extended through the first year of life, or potentially beyond, depending on the 
outcome and presence of unmeasured confounders associated with preterm birth.

© The Author 2014; all rights reserved. Published by Oxford University Press on 
behalf of the International Epidemiological Association.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyu011
PMCID: PMC4258766
PMID: 24513685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Eur Heart J. 2014 Jul 21;35(28):1897-906. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehu006.
Epub  2014 Feb 9.

Cost-effectiveness of apixaban vs. current standard of care for stroke 
prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation.

Dorian P(1), Kongnakorn T(2), Phatak H(3), Rublee DA(4), Kuznik A(4), Lanitis 
T(5), Liu LZ(6), Iloeje U(3), Hernandez L(7), Lip GY(8).

Author information:
(1)University of Toronto, St Michael's Hospital Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
dorianp@smh.ca.
(2)Evidera, Bangkok, Thailand.
(3)Bristol-Myers Squibb, Princeton, NJ, USA.
(4)Pfizer, New York, NY, USA.
(5)Evidera, London, UK.
(6)Pfizer, New York, NY, USA Weill Medical College of Cornell University, New 
York, NY, USA.
(7)Evidera, Lexington, MA, USA.
(8)University of Birmingham Centre for Cardiovascular Sciences, City Hospital, 
Birmingham, UK.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2014 Apr;11(4):187.

AIMS: Warfarin, a vitamin K antagonist (VKA), has been the standard of care for 
stroke prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation (AF). Aspirin is 
recommended for low-risk patients and those unsuitable for warfarin. Apixaban is 
an oral anticoagulant that has demonstrated better efficacy than warfarin and 
aspirin in the ARISTOTLE and AVERROES studies, respectively, and causes less 
bleeding than warfarin. We evaluated the potential cost-effectiveness of 
apixaban against warfarin and aspirin from the perspective of the UK payer 
perspective.
RESULTS AND METHODS: A lifetime Markov model was developed to evaluate the 
pharmacoeconomic impact of apixaban compared with warfarin and aspirin in VKA 
suitable and VKA unsuitable patients, respectively. Clinical events considered 
in the model include ischaemic stroke, haemorrhagic stroke, intracranial 
haemorrhage, other major bleed, clinically relevant non-major bleed, myocardial 
infarction, cardiovascular hospitalization and treatment discontinuations; data 
from the ARISTOTLE and AVERROES trials and published mortality rates and 
event-related utility rates were used in the model. Apixaban was projected to 
increase life expectancy and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) compared with 
warfarin and aspirin. These gains were expected to be achieved at a drug 
acquisition-related cost increase over lifetime. The estimated incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was £11 909 and £7196 per QALY gained with apixaban 
compared with warfarin and aspirin, respectively. Sensitivity analyses indicated 
that results were robust to a wide range of inputs.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on randomized trial data, apixaban is a cost-effective 
alternative to warfarin and aspirin, in VKA suitable and VKA unsuitable patients 
with AF, respectively.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Cardiology.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehu006
PMCID: PMC4104492
PMID: 24513791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. BMJ Open. 2014 Feb 10;4(2):e004120. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-004120.

Treatments for macular oedema following central retinal vein occlusion: 
systematic review.

Ford JA(1), Clar C, Lois N, Barton S, Thomas S, Court R, Shyangdan D, Waugh N.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, University of East Anglia, Norwich, 
UK.

OBJECTIVES: To review systematically the randomised controlled trial (RCT) 
evidence for treatment of macular oedema due to central retinal vein occlusion 
(CRVO).
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, EMBASE, CDSR, DARE, HTA, NHSEED, CENTRAL and meeting 
abstracts (January 2005 to March 2013).
STUDY ELIGIBILITY CRITERIA, PARTICIPANTS AND INTERVENTIONS: RCTs with at least 
12 months of follow-up assessing pharmacological treatments for CRVO were 
included with no language restrictions.
STUDY APPRAISAL AND SYNTHESIS METHODS: 2 authors screened titles and abstracts 
and conducted data extracted and Cochrane risk of bias assessment. Meta-analysis 
was not possible due to lack of comparable studies.
RESULTS: 8 studies (35 articles, 1714 eyes) were included, assessing aflibercept 
(n=2), triamcinolone (n=2), bevacizumab (n=1), pegaptanib (n=1), dexamethasone 
(n=1) and ranibizumab (n=1). In general, bevacizumab, ranibizumab, aflibercept 
and triamcinolone resulted in clinically significant increases in the proportion 
of participants with an improvement in visual acuity of ≥15 letters, with 40-60% 
gaining ≥15 letters on active drugs, compared to 12-28% with sham. Results for 
pegaptanib and dexamethasone were mixed. Steroids were associated with cataract 
formation and increased intraocular pressure. No overall increase in adverse 
events was found with bevacizumab, ranibizumab, aflibercept or pegaptanib 
compared with control. Quality of life was poorly reported. All studies had a 
low or unclear risk of bias.
LIMITATIONS: All studies evaluated a relatively short primary follow-up (1 year 
or less). Most had an unmasked extension phase. There was no head-to-head 
evidence. The majority of participants included had non-ischaemic CRVO.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS OF KEY FINDINGS: Bevacizumab, ranibizumab, 
aflibercept and triamcinolone appear to be effective in treating macular oedema 
secondary to CRVO. Long-term data on effectiveness and safety are needed. 
Head-to-head trials and research to identify 'responders' is needed to help 
clinicians make the right choices for their patients. Research aimed to improve 
sight in people with ischaemic CRVO is required.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-004120
PMCID: PMC3927713
PMID: 24513867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Eur J Pharm Sci. 2014 Jun 16;57:200-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ejps.2013.10.001. Epub
 2013 Oct 24.

Evaluation of an in vitro faecal degradation method for early assessment of the 
impact of colonic degradation on colonic absorption in humans.

Tannergren C(1), Borde A(2), Boreström C(1), Abrahamsson B(1), Lindahl A(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmaceutical Development, AstraZeneca R&D Mölndal, Sweden.
(2)Pharmaceutical Development, AstraZeneca R&D Mölndal, Sweden. Electronic 
address: Anders.Borde@AstraZeneca.com.

The objective of this study was to develop and evaluate an in vitro method to 
investigate bacterial-mediated luminal degradation of drugs in colon in humans. 
This would be a valuable tool for the assessment of drug candidates during early 
drug development, especially for compounds intended to be developed as oral 
extended release formulations. Freshly prepared faecal homogenate from healthy 
human volunteers (n=3-18), dog (n=6) and rat (colon and caecal content, n=3) was 
homogenised with 3.8 parts (w/w) physiological saline under anaerobical 
conditions. Four model compounds (almokalant, budesonide, ximelagatran and 
metoprolol) were then incubated (n=3-18) separately in the human faecal 
homogenate for up to 120min at 37°C. In addition, ximelagatran was also 
incubated in the faecal or colonic content from dog and rat. The mean (±SD) in 
vitro half-life for almokalant, budesonide and ximelagatran was 39±1, 68±21 and 
26±12min, respectively, in the human faecal homogenate. Metoprolol was found to 
be stable in the in vitro model. The in vitro degradation data was then compared 
to literature data on fraction absorbed after direct colon administration in 
humans. The percentage of drug remaining after 60min of in vitro incubation 
correlated (R(2)=0.90) with the fraction absorbed from colon in humans. The mean 
in vitro half-life of ximelagatran was similar in human faeces (26±12min) and 
rat colon content (34±31min), but significantly (p<0.05) longer in rat caecum 
content (50±11min) and dog faeces (126±17min). The in vitro method is in vivo 
relevant both qualitatively as all the model drugs that undergoes colonic 
degradation in vivo was rapidly degraded in the faecal homogenates as well as 
quantitatively since a correlation was established between percentage degraded 
in vitro at 60min and fraction absorbed in the colon for the model drugs, which 
have no other absorption limiting properties. Also, the method is easy to use 
from a technical point of view, which suggests that the method is suitable for 
use in early assessment of colonic absorption of extended release formulation 
candidates. Further improvement of the confidence in the use of the method would 
either require an extension of the correlation, which most likely will require 
more human regional absorption studies, or by including colonic degradation rate 
as an input in a physiological mechanistic absorption model and evaluate if the 
prediction of the plasma exposure after colonic administration of the present 
model drugs is improved.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejps.2013.10.001
PMID: 24514453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Scand J Public Health. 2014 May;42(3):242-4. doi: 10.1177/1403494814522555.
Epub  2014 Feb 10.

Ranking health between countries in international comparisons.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

Cross-national comparisons and ranking of summary measures of population health 
sometimes give rise to inconsistent and diverging conclusions. In order to 
minimise confusion, international comparative studies ought to be based on 
well-harmonised data with common standards of definitions and documentation. 
Calculation methods and results should be communicated clearly and exactly.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494814522555
PMID: 24516063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Jpn J Clin Oncol. 2014 Feb;44 Suppl 1:i28-31. doi: 10.1093/jjco/hyt211.

Cross-boundary cancer studies at the University of Tokyo: Food and cancer.

Hattori Y(1).

Author information:
(1)please contact Hideyuki Akaza, MD, Department of Strategic Investigation on 
Comprehensive Cancer Network, Research Center for Advanced Science and 
Technology, The University of Tokyo, 4-6-1 Komaba, Meguro-ku, Tokyo 153-8904 
Japan. akazah@med.rcast.u-tokyo.ac.jp.

DOI: 10.1093/jjco/hyt211
PMID: 24516208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 6;9(2):e88357. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088357.
eCollection  2014.

Losing ground--Swedish life expectancy in a comparative perspective.

Drefahl S(1), Ahlbom A(2), Modig K(2).

Author information:
(1)Demography Unit, Department of Sociology, Stockholm University, Stockholm, 
Sweden ; Institute of Environmental Medicine, Division of Epidemiology, 
Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Institute of Environmental Medicine, Division of Epidemiology, Karolinska 
Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: In the beginning of the 1970s, Sweden was the country where both 
women and men enjoyed the world's longest life expectancy. While life expectancy 
continues to be high and increasing, Sweden has been losing ground in relation 
to other leading countries.
METHODS: We look at life expectancy over the years 1970-2008 for men and women. 
To assess the relative contributions of age, causes of death, and smoking we 
decompose differences in life expectancy between Sweden and two leading 
countries, Japan and France. This study is the first to use this decomposition 
method to observe how smoking related deaths contribute to life expectancy 
differences between countries.
RESULTS: Sweden has maintained very low mortality at young and working ages for 
both men and women compared to France and Japan. However, mortality at ages 
above 65 has become considerably higher in Sweden than in the other leading 
countries because the decrease has been faster in those countries. Different 
trends for circulatory diseases were the largest contributor to this development 
in both sexes but for women also cancer played a role. Mortality from neoplasms 
has been considerably low for Swedish men. Smoking attributable mortality plays 
a modest role for women, whereas it is substantially lower in Swedish men than 
in French and Japanese men.
CONCLUSIONS: Sweden is losing ground in relation to other leading countries with 
respect to life expectancy because mortality at high ages improves more slowly 
than in the leading countries, especially due to trends in cardiovascular 
disease mortality. Trends in smoking rates may provide a partial explanation for 
the trends in women; however, it is not possible to isolate one single 
explanatory factor for why Sweden is losing ground.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088357
PMCID: PMC3916411
PMID: 24516639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


316. Prescrire Int. 2014 Jan;23(145):8-11.

Regorafenib. Metastatic colorectal cancer in treatment failure: may prolong 
survival by a few weeks.

[No authors listed]

Patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have exhausted their therapeutic 
options have a life expectancy of only a few months. Treatment is then based on 
tailored supportive care, without cytotoxic drugs. Regorafenib, an inhibitor of 
multiple protein kinases, has been authorised in the European Union for the 
treatment of patients with metastatic colorectal cancer who have no other 
therapeutic options. Clinical evaluation is based on a double-blind, randomised, 
placebo-controlled trial in patients who had already received multiple lines of 
cytotoxic chemotherapy but who remained in good overall condition. Adding 
regorafenib to best supportive care led to median overall survival, albeit of 
only a few weeks (6.4 months with regorafenib versus 5 months with placebo). 
Regorafenib has many adverse effects, including hepatic, cardiovascular, 
cutaneous, gastrointestinal, thyroid, neurological and haematological disorders, 
as well as infections and bleeding. These adverse effects are severe in about 
40% of patients. Some patients died from these adverse effects, notably liver 
damage and bleeding. In practice, according to the only available trial, 
regorafenib appears to prolong overall survival by a few weeks in some cases, 
but at a cost of serious adverse effects in about 40% of patients, including 
premature death. Pending further evaluation, it is preferable to recommend best 
supportive care.

PMID: 24516902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. BMC Public Health. 2014 Feb 11;14:149. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-149.

The influence of HIV disease events/stages on smoking attitudes and behaviors: 
project STATE (Study of Tobacco Attitudes and Teachable Events).

Vidrine DJ(1), Fletcher FE, Buchberg MK, Li Y, Arduino RC, Gritz ER.

Author information:
(1)Department of Behavioral Science, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, P,O, Box 301439, Unit 1330, Houston, TX 77030-1439, USA. 
dvidrine@mdanderson.org.

BACKGROUND: Given the increase in life expectancy among HIV-positive individuals 
attributable to antiretroviral therapies, cigarette smoking now represents one 
of the most salient health risks confronting the HIV-positive population. 
Despite this risk, very few efforts to date have been made to target persons 
living with HIV for smoking cessation treatment, and no efforts have been made 
to explore the role of cognitions and HIV disease events/stages on smoking 
outcomes. The purpose of the study, Project STATE (Study of Tobacco Attitudes 
and Teachable Events), is to prospectively examine the relationship between HIV 
events/stages, perceived impact of HIV disease, attitudes about cigarette 
smoking, and smoking behaviors.
METHODS/DESIGN: This study employs a prospective design. Patients are recruited 
at the time of their first physician visit at a large inner city 
HIV-clinic--Thomas Street Health Center (TSHC). Consenting participants then 
complete a baseline assessment. All participants are offered standard care 
smoking cessation treatment. Follow-up assessments are completed on four 
subsequent occasions: 3, 6, 9, and 12 months post-baseline. These follow-up 
assessments are scheduled to coincide with routine clinic appointments with 
their TSHC physicians. In addition, each participant is given a prepaid cell 
phone at the time of enrollment and asked to complete brief phone assessments 
weekly for the first three months of the study period.
DISCUSSION: By evaluating events/stages of HIV disease as potential teaching 
moments for smoking cessation, findings from this study could be used to develop 
treatments tailored to an individual's stage of HIV disease. This study design 
will enable us to carefully track changes in smoking behavior over time, and to 
link these changes to both the course of HIV disease and/or to the 
participant's' perceived impact of HIV. By identifying optimal time points for 
intervention, the findings from this study will have the potential to maximize 
the efficiency and efficacy of cessation treatments delivered in 
resource-limited settings. In addition, the findings will be instrumental in 
identifying specific constructs that should be targeted for intervention and 
will provide a strong foundation for the development of future cessation 
interventions targeting smokers living with HIV/AIDS.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-149
PMCID: PMC3929124
PMID: 24517853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Ann Vasc Surg. 2014 Jul;28(5):1329-34. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.12.031. Epub
 2014 Feb 8.

Carotid bypass: a safe and durable solution for recurrent carotid stenosis.

Spinelli F(1), Martelli E(2), Stilo F(3), Pipitò N(3), Benedetto F(3), Spinelli 
D(3), Squillaci D(3), De Caridi G(3), Barillà D(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Messina, Messina, Italy.
(2)Department of Biomedicine and Prevention, University of Rome Tor Vergata, 
Rome, Italy. Electronic address: eugenio.martelli@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Biomedicine and Prevention, University of Rome Tor Vergata, 
Rome, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The long-term results of carotid artery stenting (CAS) for 
post-carotid endarterectomy (CEA) restenosis are disappointing (4-year patency 
rates: ∼75%). Since 1988, our group has offered carotid bypass (CB) as an 
alternative to redo CEA and later also to CAS in this setting. The aim of this 
retrospective study was to investigate early and late outcomes associated with 
CB in this population.
METHODS: Data were collected from patients treated with CB in the year 2000-2012 
for significant/symptomatic post-CEA restenosis (or intra-stent restenosis [ISR] 
after CAS for post-CEA restenosis). All patients had good life expectancy. CB 
was performed under loco-regional anesthesia. With the aid of sequential vessel 
clamping, the graft (great saphenous vein [GSV] or polytetrafluoroethylene) was 
anastomosed with the common carotid artery (side-to-end) and the distal internal 
carotid artery (end-to-side). Patients were followed with clinical and duplex 
scan assessments at 1, 3, and 6 months and yearly thereafter.
RESULTS: The study population comprised 21 patients (mean age 67.3 years; 17 
men). CB was performed for post-CEA restenosis (or ISR after CAS for post-CEA 
restenosis, n=3) 51.2 months (mean) after the previous operation. GSV grafts 
were used in half of the cases (n=11; 52.4%); temporary shunting was used in 4 
(19%) patients. Intraoperative complications (none fatal) occurred in 4 (19%) 
patients (3 transient peripheral nerve injuries, 1 cervical hematoma). During 
follow-up (mean 64.8 months), there were no neurologic complications or 
restenoses. Overall mortality was 33.3% (6 deaths from acute myocardial 
infarctions, 1 from a ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm).
CONCLUSIONS: For post-CEA restenosis (or ISR after CAS for post-CEA restenosis), 
CB offers superior long-term patency rates than CAS (or redo angioplasty) and an 
acceptable risk of cranial nerve damage.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2013.12.031
PMID: 24517993 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Am J Nurs. 2014 Mar;114(3):38-47; quiz 48-9. doi: 
10.1097/01.NAJ.0000444491.93733.53.

CE: Nursing in the fourth decade of the HIV epidemic.

Starr WM(1), Springer LB.

Author information:
(1)Whitney Marie Starr is an assistant professor and Lucy Bradley-Springer is an 
associate professor in the Division of Infectious Diseases at the University of 
Colorado Denver School of Medicine in Aurora. Whitney Marie Starr has served as 
a consultant for Gilead Sciences, a manufacturer of drugs for infectious 
diseases, some of which are discussed in this article. Lucy Bradley-Springer 
received a grant from the Health Resources and Services Administration to fund 
the Mountain Plains AIDS Education and Training Center, a program initiated in 
1988 to educate health care providers in eight states about HIV infection. 
Through the Intergovernmental Personnel Act Mobility Program, she works with the 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention to teach health coaches in six 
clinics throughout the country about ways to help HIV-infected patients prevent 
HIV transmission, remain in care, and practice medication adherence. She owns 
stock in Johnson and Johnson and Merck. Products manufactured by these companies 
are discussed in this article. Contact author: Lucy Bradley-Springer, 
lucy.bradley-springer@ucdenver.edu. AJN's peer review process has determined 
this article to be objective and free of commercial bias. The planners have 
disclosed no potential conflicts of interest, financial or otherwise.

HIV has evolved over the past 30 years from a virtual death sentence to a 
chronic and manageable disease. Nurses in the United States have helped to 
change the epidemic through advocacy, education, care, and support for people 
living with HIV infection. They have contributed to the expansion of HIV 
prevention methods, provided support to this population and their families, and 
helped make HIV treatments more effective and efficient. People with HIV 
infection who access and remain in care can now enjoy both an improved quality 
of life and a greater life expectancy. Here, the authors discuss HIV 
epidemiology and policy in the United States, the concept of the HIV care 
cascade, advances in HIV testing and treatment, and how nurses can continue to 
have a positive impact on the HIV epidemic by encouraging testing, connecting 
newly diagnosed patients to specialty care, retaining these patients in 
long-term care, and providing access to combination antiretroviral therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NAJ.0000444491.93733.53
PMID: 24518048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. Endocr Pract. 2014 Jul;20(7):722-36. doi: 10.4158/EP13192.RA.

Treatment of type 2 diabetes mellitus in the older adult: a review.

Pratley RE(1), Heller SR(2), Miller MA(3).

Author information:
(1)Florida Hospital Diabetes and Translational Research Institutes, Sanford 
Burnham Medical Research Institute, Orlando, Florida.
(2)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals Foundation Trust, University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, United Kingdom.
(3)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, Indiana.

OBJECTIVE: This review summarizes the particular challenges of diabetes in older 
individuals and the evidence base guiding the selection of treatment targets and 
strategies in this population.
METHODS: An in-depth literature search was conducted to identify the evidence 
base from randomized, controlled, and population-based epidemiological studies, 
as well as guidelines derived from expert opinion.
RESULTS: Older patients are a highly heterogeneous population with respect to 
the pathogenesis and course of diabetes and, as a group, manifest significant 
comorbidities that impact treatment goals and strategies. There is a lack of 
consensus regarding "optimal" glucose targets in older patients with diabetes. 
Hypoglycemia is more common in the older patient, contributes to increased 
morbidity and reduced quality of life, and limits treatment in many cases. 
Duration of diabetes, comorbidities, life expectancy, and functional status are 
other important factors to consider when identifying appropriate glycemic goals 
and choosing an antihyperglycemic agent for older patients with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus (T2DM).
CONCLUSION: Current, limited treatment recommendations in older patients with 
T2DM are based on expert opinion due to the general lack of evidence from 
randomized controlled trials. This underscores the importance of individualizing 
pharmacologic therapy in these patients with a focus on the risk-to-benefit 
ratio. Additional trials in older patients are needed to assess drug safety, 
efficacy, and dosing.

DOI: 10.4158/EP13192.RA
PMID: 24518176 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. Minerva Anestesiol. 2014 Nov;80(11):1234-45. Epub 2014 Feb 11.

Early postoperative management of lung transplantation.

Leal S(1), Sacanell J, Riera J, Masclans JR, Rello J.

Author information:
(1)Critical Care Department, Vall d'Hebron University Hospital, Vall d'Hebron 
Research Institute (VHIR), Universitat Autonoma de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain - 
slealmur@gmail.com.

Lung transplantation is a widely accepted therapeutic option for patients with 
end-stage lung disease. However, despite the significant medical progress 
achieved since the first human lung transplant was performed in 1963, 
perioperative and long-term patient outcomes are still jeopardised by a variety 
of complications. Infection and rejection are among the most feared 
complications in the early post-transplantation period because they are 
difficult to treat and can have a long-lasting impact on the quality of life and 
overall life expectancy. Multidisciplinary management of lung transplant 
recipients focusing on the prevention or early detection of complications, 
particularly during the early postoperative phase, may improve the short and 
long-term outcomes of those patients benefiting from this life-saving 
intervention. However, in the absence of internationally recognised guidelines, 
the optimal strategies for managing lung transplant recipients remain unclear. 
This article presents a practical approach to the management of the early 
post-transplantation period aiming at standardising clinical care and improving 
patient outcome.

PMID: 24518214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2014 Feb 11;134(3):320-2. doi:
10.4045/tidsskr.13.1652.

Politics or quasi-science?

[Article in English, Norwegian]

Wyller TB.

Comment in
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2014 Mar 11;134(5):500.
    Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2014 Mar 11;134(5):500.

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.13.1652
PMID: 24518483 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. NeuroRehabilitation. 2014;34(3):409-27. doi: 10.3233/NRE-141063.

A new hand assessment instrument for severely affected stroke patients.

Broetz D(1), Del Grosso NA(1), Rea M(1), Ramos-Murguialday A(2), Soekadar SR(3), 
Birbaumer N(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology, MEG Center, 
University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany.
(2)Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology, MEG Center, 
University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany Health Technologies Department, 
TECNALIA, San Sebastian, Spain.
(3)Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology, MEG Center, 
University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany Department of Psychiatry and 
Psychotherapy, University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany.
(4)Institute of Medical Psychology and Behavioral Neurobiology, MEG Center, 
University of Tuebingen, Tuebingen, Germany Ospedale San Camillo, Istituto di 
Ricovero e Cura a Curattere Scientifico, IRCCS, Venezia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Standard assessment instruments cannot differentiate patients with 
minimal residual hand function after stroke. As a result, changes in motor 
recovery are difficult to document using currently-available tests. In a 
controlled study with chronic stroke patients without residual finger extension, 
a new hand function test has been developed. This instrument, called Broetz Hand 
Test (BzH), allows to assess small variations in hand function in severely 
paralyzed stoke patients. The instrument is easy to use, and was developed using 
principles of motor learning and behavioral assessment.
METHODS: The instrument consists of seven daily life-oriented tasks, each of 
which asks for movement of the paralyzed hand. BzH of 20 patients after stroke 
was evaluated before and after a behavioral physiotherapy treatment. 
Sensitivity, inter-observer reliability, test-retest reliability and construct 
validity was calculated.
RESULTS: Two-tailed paired-samples t-test before and after treatment 
demonstrated sufficient sensitivity. Mean agreement between the raters resulted 
in an excellent interrater-reliability. Test-retest reliability between the pre- 
and post-treatment scores was 0.9. The correlation between BzH and standard test 
scores was statistically significant and demonstrated sufficient validity.
CONCLUSION: The BzH is a valid and reliable tool to assess changes in hand 
function in severely paralyzed patients after stroke.

DOI: 10.3233/NRE-141063
PMID: 24518537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Cell J. 2014 Feb 3;16(1):73-8. Epub 2014 Feb 3.

Dental caries prevalence in human immunodeficiency virus infected patients 
receiving highly active anti-retroviral therapy in kermanshah, iran.

Rezaei-Soufi L(1), Davoodi P(2), Abdolsamadi HR(2), Jazaeri M(2), Malekzadeh 
H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Operative Dentistry, Dental Research Center, Faculty of 
Dentistry, Hamadan University of Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(2)Department of Oral Medicine, Faculty of Dentistry, Hamadan University of 
Medical Sciences, Hamadan, Iran.
(3)Department of Oral Medicine, Faculty of Dentistry, Jundishapour University of 
Medical Sciences, Ahvaz, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Introduction of new approaches for the treatment of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infection such as anti-retroviral medicines has 
resulted in an increase in the life expectancy of HIV patient. Evaluating the 
dental health status as a part of their general health care is needed in order 
to improve the quality of life in these patients. The aim of this study was to 
compare the root and crown caries rate in HIV patients receiving highly active 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART) with that rate in HIV patients without treatment 
option.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This cross sectional study consisting of 100 individuals 
of both genders with human immunodeficiency virus were divided into two groups: 
i. group 1 (treatment group) including 50 patients with acquired 
immunodeficiency syndrome (AIDS) receiving HAART and ii. group 2 (control group) 
including 50 HIV infected patients not receiving HAART. Dental examinations were 
done by a dentist under suitable light using periodontal probe. For each 
participant, numbers of decay (D), missed (M), filled (F), Decayed missed and 
filled teeth (DMFT), decay surface (Ds), missed surface (Ms), filled surface 
(Fs), Decayed missed and filled surfaces (DMFS), and tooth and root caries were 
recorded. Data were analyzed using Chi-square test and independent t test using 
SPSS 13.0, while p-value of <0.05 was considered statistically significant in 
all analysis.
RESULTS: The mean and standard deviation (SD) of decayed, missed and filled 
teeth of those who were on highly active antiretroviral therapy was 6.86 ± 3.57, 
6.39 ± 6.06 and 1.89 ± 1.93, respectively. There was no significant difference 
between these values regarding to the treatment of patients. The mean and 
standard deviation of DMFT, DMFS and the number of decayed root surfaces were 
15.14 ± 6.09, 56.79 ± 28.56, and 4.96 ± 2.89 in patients treated by 
anti-retroviral medicine which were not significantly different compared to 
those without this treatment.
CONCLUSION: According to the results of the present study, highly active 
antiretroviral therapy could not be considered as a single factor for dental 
caries prevalence in HIV-infected patients. However, more research is 
recommended to evaluate the cariogenic potential of these medicines.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Royan Institute (ACECR).The full text is avalible 
in: www.celljournal.org.

PMCID: PMC3933441
PMID: 24518976


325. Arch Sex Behav. 2015 Apr;44(3):695-703. doi: 10.1007/s10508-013-0254-2. Epub
 2014 Feb 12.

Family planning: fertility and parenting ideals in urban adolescents.

Chipman A(1), Morrison E.

Author information:
