(1)Centre for Comparative and Evolutionary Psychology, Department of Psychology, 
University of Portsmouth, Portsmouth, Hampshire, PO1 2DY, UK, 
abby.chipman@port.ac.uk.

Previous research on contemporary childbearing has identified a strong 
relationship between environmental conditions, such as economic deprivation, and 
early fertility. Less is known, however, about the social-psychological 
mechanisms that mediate these environmental predictors of early fertility at the 
individual level and the extent to which they are consistent with life history 
theory. The aim of this research was to determine how kin networks, mating and 
reproductive risk taking, discount preference, and perceptions of environmental 
risk predict individual differences in fertility preferences in a 
socioeconomically diverse sample of adolescents. Questionnaires were 
administered to 333 adolescents (245 female) between the ages of 13 and 
19 years, attending schools in urban neighborhoods in Hampshire, United Kingdom. 
Individuals' subjective life expectancy and perception of their environment 
better predicted fertility intentions than did structural measures of 
environmental quality. This suggests that by the time individuals reach 
adolescence they are monitoring the morbidity and mortality risk of their 
environment and are adjusting their reproductive ideals accordingly. Levels of 
grandparental investment also predicted parenting preferences, suggesting 
cooperative breeding may play a role in reproductive decision making. There was 
also evidence that patterns of risk taking behaviors could be adaptive to 
environmental conditions and some evidence that pro-natal attitudes, as opposed 
to knowledge of safe sexual practice, predict adolescents' reproductive 
strategies. These findings suggest that studying individuals' psychology from a 
life history perspective adds to my understanding of the persistently high rates 
of early reproduction within developed countries, such as the United Kingdom.

DOI: 10.1007/s10508-013-0254-2
PMID: 24519106 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. J Community Health. 2014 Aug;39(4):747-52. doi: 10.1007/s10900-014-9821-2.

The aging profile of the Portuguese population: a principal component analysis.

Rodrigues V(1), Mota-Pinto A, de Sousa B, Botelho A, Alves C, de Oliveira CR.

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Higiene e Medicina Social, Faculdade de Medicina da, 
Universidade de Coimbra, Rua Larga, 3004-504, Coimbra, Portugal, 
vrodrigues@netcabo.pt.

In the last 5 years the resident population of Portugal has increased 2.3%, 
along with a progressive ageing. This study aims assessing the social dependence 
and frailty, as well as social and familial support needs of the elderly. In an 
observational, cross-sectional community based study (EPEPP study), a total of 
2,672 people, aged 55 or more, were submitted to an enquiry and several 
variables were studied among three age groups: 55-64 years old (37%), 65-74 
years old (37%) and ≥ 75 years old (26%), encompassing a total of 57% women and 
43% men. A questionnaire including items such as physical autonomy, locomotion, 
falls, health/medical complaints, instrumental autonomy, physical activity, 
health self-evaluation and emotional status was applied. The strong correlations 
among the studied scores allowed the identification of people groups with common 
characteristics when a principal component analysis was used: "autonomy" (scores 
of instrumental autonomy, locomotion and physical autonomy) and "perception of 
health and emotional status" (scores of health self-evaluation and emotional 
status), were present in the three age groups. The component analysis evidences 
that a good autonomy, a good perception of health and emotional status are 
determinant to a good quality of life in elderly. Although health status and 
self-rated health have a propensity to deteriorate with aging, older Portuguese 
consider their state of health satisfactory and tend to underestimate their 
decline. In what concerns the analysis of gender with the same age and in 
contrast to what has been reported, older women alike to men, experience a good 
mobility and health self-evaluation.

DOI: 10.1007/s10900-014-9821-2
PMID: 24519178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Surg Today. 2014 Aug;44(8):1424-33. doi: 10.1007/s00595-014-0856-x. Epub
2014  Feb 12.

Early and long-term clinical outcomes of bilio-intestinal diversion in morbidly 
obese patients.

De Cesare A(1), Cangemi B, Fiori E, Bononi M, Cangemi R, Basso L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery "Pietro Valdoni", "Sapienza" University of Rome, 
Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, viale del Policlinico 155, 00161, Rome, 
Italy.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the early and long-term postoperative results of 
malabsorptive surgery in morbidly obese patients.
METHODS: Between 2000 and 2007, 102 morbidly obese patients were referred to the 
Department of Surgery "Pietro Valdoni", "Sapienza" University of Rome, 
Policlinico "Umberto I°", Rome, Italy for malabsorptive surgery. All patients 
underwent derivative biliodigestive surgery after they had been reviewed by a 
team of surgeons, physicians, dieticians, and psychologists.
RESULTS: There were no intra-operative complications, but two patients suffered 
postoperative pulmonary embolisms, which resolved with medical treatment. The 
mean postoperative hospital stay was 7 days, with no early or late mortality. 
Maximum weight loss was reached 12-24 months after surgery, while the mean 
percentage excess weight loss at 3-5 years ranged from 45 to 64 %. Specific 
postoperative complications in the first 2 years after surgery were abdominal 
abscess (n = 2), gastroduodenal reflux (n = 4), and incisional hernia (n = 6). 
Diabetes resolved in 98 % of the diabetic patients within a few weeks after 
surgery and blood pressure normalised in 86.4 % of those who had had 
hypertension preoperatively. Obstructive sleep apnoea and obesity 
hypoventilation syndrome also improved significantly in 92 % of the patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Morbidly obese patients can undergo biliodigestive surgery safely 
with good long-term weight loss and quality of life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-014-0856-x
PMID: 24519396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. Stroke. 2014 Mar;45(3):807-14. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.113.004027. Epub 2014
Feb  11.

Systematic review, critical appraisal, and analysis of the quality of economic 
evaluations in stroke imaging.

Burton KR(1), Perlis N, Aviv RI, Moody AR, Kapral MK, Krahn MD, Laupacis A.

Author information:
(1)From the Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation (K.R.B., N.P., 
M.K.K., M.D.K., A.L.), Departments of Medical Imaging (K.R.B., R.I.A., A.R.M.), 
Surgery, Division of Urology (N.P.), Institute of Medical Science (R.I.A., 
A.R.M.), Medicine (M.K.K., M.D.K., A.L.), and Toronto Health Economics and 
Technology Assessment Collaborative (M.D.K.), University of Toronto, Toronto, 
ON, Canada; Institute for Clinical and Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, ON, Canada 
(M.K.K.); and Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, 
ON, Canada (A.L.).

Comment in
    Stroke. 2014 Mar;45(3):660-1.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: This study reviews the quality of economic evaluations 
of imaging after acute stroke and identifies areas for improvement.
METHODS: We performed full-text searches of electronic databases that included 
Medline, Econlit, the National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database, and 
the Tufts Cost Effectiveness Analysis Registry through July 2012. Search 
strategy terms included the following: stroke*; cost*; or cost-benefit 
analysis*; and imag*. Inclusion criteria were empirical studies published in any 
language that reported the results of economic evaluations of imaging 
interventions for patients with stroke symptoms. Study quality was assessed by a 
commonly used checklist (with a score range of 0% to 100%).
RESULTS: Of 568 unique potential articles identified, 5 were included in the 
review. Four of 5 articles were explicit in their analysis perspectives, which 
included healthcare system payers, hospitals, and stroke services. Two studies 
reported results during a 5-year time horizon, and 3 studies reported lifetime 
results. All included the modified Rankin Scale score as an outcome measure. The 
median quality score was 84.4% (range=71.9%-93.5%). Most studies did not 
consider the possibility that patients could not tolerate contrast media or 
could incur contrast-induced nephropathy. Three studies compared perfusion 
computed tomography with unenhanced computed tomography but assumed that 
outcomes guided by the results of perfusion computed tomography were equivalent 
to outcomes guided by the results of magnetic resonance imaging or noncontrast 
computed tomography.
CONCLUSIONS: Economic evaluations of imaging modalities after acute ischemic 
stroke were generally of high methodological quality. However, important 
radiology-specific clinical components were missing from all of these analyses.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.113.004027
PMID: 24519409 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 May;32(5):495-507. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0142-1.

Valuation of EQ-5D-3L health states in Singapore: modeling of time trade-off 
values for 80 empirically observed health states.

Luo N(1), Wang P, Thumboo J, Lim YW, Vrijhoef HJ.

Author information:
(1)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore and 
National University Health System, 16 Medical Drive, Block MD3, Singapore, 
117597, Singapore, nan_luo@nuhs.edu.sg.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to establish an EQ-5D-3L value set using 
the time trade-off (TTO) method to elicit the health preferences of the general 
Singaporean population.
METHODS: The values of 80 EQ-5D-3L health states were elicited from a general 
Singaporean population sample using a TTO method. In face-to-face interviews, 
participants were asked to value a block of ten health states. Various linear 
regression models were examined to assess for goodness of fit to the data, at 
both aggregate and individual levels. Prediction precision was assessed in terms 
of mean absolute error (MAE), and numbers of prediction errors larger than 0.10 
and 0.20. Prediction consistency and bias were also assessed.
RESULTS: A total of 456 participants provided data for this study. The N3 model 
without a constant estimated using the aggregate data exhibited the best fit of 
the data, predicted values with the least bias, and generated logically 
consistent values for all 243 EQ-5D-3L health states. The MAE was 0.1137, and 35 
of 80 predicted values had errors less than 0.10 in absolute magnitude. Based on 
this model, the utility values ranged from 0.854 for state 11121 to -0.769 for 
state 33333.
CONCLUSIONS: The EQ-5D-3L value set can be estimated using the TTO method in the 
multi-cultural, multi-ethnic Singapore. Although the estimation precision is not 
optimal, the health-state preference values generated in this study are useful 
to health service researchers in the country before estimates with smaller 
errors are available.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0142-1
PMID: 24519603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Aging (Albany NY). 2014 Jan;6(1):58-69. doi: 10.18632/aging.100634.

Indy gene variation in natural populations confers fitness advantage and life 
span extension through transposon insertion.

Zhu CT(1), Chang C, Reenan RA, Helfand SL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Cell Biology and Biochemistry, Division of 
Biology and Medicine, Brown University, Providence, RI 02912.

Natural selection acts to maximize reproductive fitness. However, antagonism 
between life span and reproductive success frequently poses a dilemma pitting 
the cost of fecundity against longevity. Here, we show that natural populations 
of Drosophila melanogaster harbor a Hoppel transposon insertion variant in the 
longevity gene Indy (I'm not dead yet), which confers both increased 
reproduction and longevity through metabolic changes. Heterozygosity for this 
natural long-lived variant has been maintained in isolates despite long-term 
inbreeding under laboratory conditions and advantageously confers increased 
fecundity. DNA sequences of variant chromosome isolates show evidence of 
selective sweep acting on the advantageous allele, suggesting that natural 
selection acts to maintain this variant. The transposon insertion also regulates 
Indy expression level, which has experimentally been shown to affect life span 
and fecundity. Thus, in the wild, evolution reaffirms that the mechanism of 
heterozygote advantage has acted upon the Indy gene to assure increased 
reproductive fitness and, coincidentally, longer life span through regulatory 
transposon mutagenesis.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100634
PMCID: PMC3927810
PMID: 24519859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors of this paper declare no conflict of 
interests.


331. Front Zool. 2014 Feb 13;11(1):13. doi: 10.1186/1742-9994-11-13.

Diversity, environmental requirements, and biogeography of bivalve wood-borers 
(Teredinidae) in European coastal waters.

Borges LM(1), Merckelbach LM, Sampaio I, Cragg SM.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Marine Sciences, School of Biological Sciences, Portsmouth 
University, Portsmouth, UK. luisaborges2000@yahoo.co.uk.

BACKGROUND: Bivalve teredinids inflict great destruction to wooden maritime 
structures. Yet no comprehensive study was ever carried out on these organisms 
in European coastal waters. Thus, the aims of this study were to: investigate 
the diversity of teredinids in European coastal waters; map their past and 
recent distributions to detect range expansion or contraction; determine 
salinity-temperature (S-T) requirements of species; flag, for future monitoring, 
the species that pose the greatest hazard for wooden structures.
RESULTS: A total of nine teredinid species were found established in European 
coastal waters. Seven were considered cryptogenic, of unknown origin, and two 
were considered alien species. Teredo navalis and Nototeredo norvagica were the 
species with the widest distribution in European waters. Recently, T. navalis 
has been reported occurring further east in the Baltic Sea but it was not found 
at a number of sites on the Atlantic coast of southern Europe. The Atlantic 
lineage of Lyrodus pedicellatus was the dominant teredinid in the southern 
Atlantic coast of Europe. In the Mediterranean six teredinid species occurred in 
sympatry, whereas only three of these occurred in the Black Sea. The species 
that pose the greatest hazard to wooden maritime structures in European coastal 
areas are T. navalis and the two lineages of L. pedicellatus.
CONCLUSIONS: Combined data from field surveys and from the literature made it 
possible to determine the diversity of established teredinid species and their 
past and recent distribution in Europe. The environmental requirements of 
species, determined using climatic envelopes, produced valuable information that 
assisted on the explanation of species distribution. In addition, the observed 
trends of species range extension or contraction in Teredo navalis and in the 
two lineages of Lyrodus pedicellatus seem to emphasise the importance of 
temperature and salinity as determinants of the distribution of teredinids, 
whereas their life history strategy seems to play an important role on 
competition.Teredo navalis and pedicellatus-like Lyrodus species should be 
monitored due to their destructive capability. The two alien species may expand 
further their distribution range in Europe, becoming invasive, and should also 
be monitored.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-9994-11-13
PMCID: PMC3925441
PMID: 24520913


332. Death Stud. 2014 Jan-Jun;38(1-5):28-35. doi: 10.1080/07481187.2012.712607.
Epub  2013 Aug 1.

The acceptability of ending a patient's life: a France-Portugal-Spain 
comparison.

Mullet E(1), Neto F, Pinto C, Raich RM, Sastre MT, Sorum PC.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Ethics , Institute of Advanced Studies , Paris , France.

The views of French, Portuguese, and Spanish people on end-of-life decisions 
were compared. Two hundred seventy-seven adults from Barcelona, Oporto, and 
Toulouse judged the acceptability of life-ending procedures in 42 scenarios 
composed of all combinations of 3 factors: the patient's age (30 or 80 years), 
the patient's life expectancy (days, weeks, or months), and the type of 
procedure (suicide, suicide assisted by the physician, euthanasia by the 
physician at the request of a suffering patient, euthanasia of a comatose 
patient at the family's request, euthanasia of a comatose patient as stipulated 
in the patient's advance directives, euthanasia of a comatose patient without 
advance directions and without a request from the family, or euthanasia of a 
suffering patient without a request from the patient). In all 3 countries, the 
type of procedure had the major effect. The 4 procedures implemented by the 
patient or at the patient's request were, on average, considered acceptable. The 
2 procedures not implemented at the patient's request were considered 
unacceptable. Euthanasia of a comatose patient at the request of the family was 
judged mildly acceptable. The attitudes of the people in Toulouse, Oporto, and 
Barcelona concerning the acceptability of ending a patient's life have now 
largely converged, although Spanish participants were statistically 
significantly more accepting than French and Portuguese participants.

DOI: 10.1080/07481187.2012.712607
PMID: 24521043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. BJOG. 2014 May;121(6):714-8. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.12544. Epub 2014 Feb 13.

The dangers of the day of birth.

Walker KF(1), Cohen AL, Walker SH, Allen KM, Baines DL, Thornton JG.

Author information:
(1)Maternity Department, Nottingham City Hospital, Nottingham, UK.

Comment in
    BJOG. 2014 May;121(6):662-3.
    BJOG. 2014 Sep;121(10):1320-1.
    BJOG. 2014 Sep;121(10):1319.
    BJOG. 2014 Sep;121(10):1320.

OBJECTIVE: To compare the risk of fetal death on the day of childbirth, with the 
risk of death at other ages, and with the risks of some hazardous activities, on 
a common scale of risk per day.
DESIGN: Review of publicly available data.
SETTING UK SAMPLE: Data extracted from the Office of National Statistics and 
other sources.
METHODS: Data from the Office of National Statistics and other sources were used 
to calculate death rates at different ages expressed as rates per day of life. 
Death rates for different activities were also calculated as risks per day, or 
risks per activity, as appropriate. All risks were expressed in micromorts, the 
number of one in a million chances of dying. Figures on life expectancy (LE) 
were used to compare potential life years lost.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Daily, or unit of activity, risk of dying for different 
activities compared with the risk of dying on the day of childbirth.
RESULTS: The risk of dying on the day of birth (0.43 per 1000, or 430 
micromorts) exceeds that of any other average day of life until the 92nd year. 
It is comparable with other apparently more dangerous activities, such as 
undergoing major surgery. For comparison, the average risk of non-natural death 
per day and the increased risk from smoking one cigarette or travelling 200 
miles by car are all about 1 micromort.
CONCLUSIONS: The lifetime risk of death in childbirth is low, but is 
concentrated in a short period, making being born a high-risk activity. Parents 
considering interventions to reduce these risks should be made aware of this.

© 2014 Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.12544
PMID: 24521517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Environ Pollut. 2014 Apr;187:193-201. doi: 10.1016/j.envpol.2014.01.015.
Epub  2014 Feb 9.

Occurrence, sources, and fate of pharmaceuticals in aquatic environment and 
soil.

Li WC(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Education in Environmental Sustainability, Department of Science 
and Environmental Studies, The Hong Kong Institute of Education, Hong Kong 
Special Administrative Region. Electronic address: waichin@ied.edu.hk.

With the rapid economic development, a better living condition leads to longer 
life expectancy, which increased the total population, in particular the elderly 
group. It may result in increase in the demand of pharmaceuticals for people in 
domestic use or in hospital. Although most sewage treatment plants or waste 
water treatment plantsmet the regulatory requirement, there are still many 
pharmaceuticals removed incompletely and thus discharged to the environment. 
Therefore, the pharmaceuticals residue draws the public concern because they 
might cause adverse effects on the organism even human beings. Recently, many 
studies have published on the source and occurrence as well as the fate of 
pharmaceuticals all over the world. This paper summarized and reviewed the 
recent studies on the sources, occurrence, fate and the effects of the most 
common pharmaceuticals. Finally, it gave the suggestion and risk management for 
controlling the pharmaceuticals.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.envpol.2014.01.015
PMID: 24521932 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Lifetime Data Anal. 2015 Jan;21(1):119-37. doi: 10.1007/s10985-014-9291-y.
Epub  2014 Feb 13.

Robust methods to improve efficiency and reduce bias in estimating survival 
curves in randomized clinical trials.

Zhang M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, 
48109-2029, USA, mzhangst@umich.edu.

In randomized clinical trials, improving efficiency and reducing bias due to 
chance imbalance in covariates among groups are always of considerable interest. 
The two purposes are often achieved by some type of covariate adjustment. In 
trials involving time-to-an-event, Kaplan-Meier and Nelson-Aalen estimators are 
the most popular nonparametric estimation of survival curves. However, these 
methods do not permit direct covariate adjustment, missing the important chance 
of improving efficiency and reducing bias. In this article, we propose robust, 
covariate adjusted analogues of the Nelson-Aalen and Kaplan-Meier estimators. 
The method is robust in that it does not require any additional modeling 
assumptions and hence the resulting estimators are again nonparametric. The 
robustness is achieved by taking advantage of the study design, i.e., treatments 
are randomized. Large-sample properties of the proposed estimators are 
developed, which show that the improvement in efficiency is guaranteed 
asymptotically. Simulation studies using reasonably small sample sizes further 
demonstrate the efficiency gain and the ability to reduce or remove bias 
resulted from chance imbalance to a large degree, e.g., more than 10-fold 
reduction in bias is achieved. Efficiency improvement and bias reduction are 
also illustrated by application to a cancer clinical trial. The proposed methods 
may help to resolve the tension between the need to make best use of data and 
the unwillingness to make additional assumptions in analyzing data from clinical 
trials.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-014-9291-y
PMID: 24522498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Cancer. 2014 May 15;120(10):1491-8. doi: 10.1002/cncr.28600. Epub 2014 Feb
12.

National trends in prostate cancer screening among older American men with 
limited 9-year life expectancies: evidence of an increased need for shared 
decision making.

Drazer MW(1), Prasad SM, Huo D, Schonberg MA, Dale W, Szmulewitz RZ, Eggener SE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Chicago Medical Center, Chicago, 
Illinois.

BACKGROUND: Prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening for prostate cancer 
remains controversial. Most groups recommend informed decision making for men 
with 10 years of remaining life expectancy. The primary objective of this 
observational cohort study was to investigate the association between predicted 
9-year mortality and prostate cancer screening among American men aged ≥65 years 
in 2005 and 2010. The second objective was to analyze the proportions of men who 
discussed screening with their physicians.
METHODS: Data were extracted from the 2005 and 2010 National Health Interview 
Surveys. Men aged ≥65 years without prostate cancer were divided into predicted 
9-year mortality quartiles. The proportions of men confirming a screening PSA 
within the prior year were determined. Logistic regression was used to compare 
screening rates.
RESULTS: Screening rates for men aged ≥65 years were 48% in 2005 and 48% in 2010 
(P = .9). Men ages 65 to 74 years who had <27% predicted 9-year mortality were 
most commonly screened, with 56% screened in 2010, compared with 34% of men aged 
≥75 years with >75% predicted 9-year mortality. Approximately 55% of screened 
men aged ≥75 years who had ≥53% predicted 9-year mortality recalled discussing 
the advantages of screening, whereas 25% recalled discussing the disadvantages.
CONCLUSIONS: Prostate cancer screening with PSA did not differ significantly 
between 2005 and 2010 for men aged ≥65 years based on predicted 9-year 
mortality. Approximately 33% of older men with a high likelihood of 9-year 
mortality were screened despite minimal clinical benefit. Twice as many men 
recalled discussing the potential advantages of screening compared with the 
disadvantages. Cancer 2014;120:1491-1498. © 2014 American Cancer Society.

© 2014 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28600
PMID: 24523016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014 Jan 9;2014:843253. doi: 10.1155/2014/843253. 
eCollection 2014.

Assessment of the body composition and the loss of fat-free mass through 
bioelectric impedance analysis in patients who underwent open gastric bypass.

de Freitas Junior WR(1), Ilias EJ(1), Kassab P(1), Cordts R(1), Porto PG(1), 
Martins Rodrigues FC(1), Ali Taha MI(1), Carrara P(2), de Carvalho Aguiar I(3), 
de Oliveira LV(3), Castro O(1), Malheiros CA(1).

Author information:
(1)Gastric Surgery Division, Department of Surgery of Santa Casa of São Paulo 
Medical School, São Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(2)Department of Epidemiology of Santa Casa of São Paulo Medical School, São 
Paulo, SP, Brazil.
(3)Master's and Doctoral Programs in Rehabilitation Sciences, Nove de Julho 
University (UNINOVE), São Paulo, SP, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Bariatric surgery is considered an effective option for the 
management of morbid obesity. The incidence of obesity has been gradually 
increasing all over the world reaching epidemic proportions in some regions of 
the world. Obesity can cause a reduction of up to 22% in the life expectancy of 
morbidly obese patients.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this paper is to assess the weight loss associated 
with the first 6 months after bariatric surgery using bioelectric impedance 
analysis (BIA) for the evaluation of fat mass and fat-free mass.
METHOD: A total of 36 morbidly obese patients were subjected to open gastric 
bypass surgery. The patients weight was monitored before and after the procedure 
using the bioelectric impedance analysis.
RESULTS: Bariatric surgery resulted in an average percentage of weight loss of 
28.6% (40 kg) as determined 6 months after the procedure was performed. Analysis 
of the different components of body weight indicated an undesirable loss of 
fat-free mass along with the reduction of total body weight.
CONCLUSION: Open gastric bypass induced a significant loss of total weight and 
loss of fat-free mass in patients six months after the surgery. The use of 
bioelectric impedance analysis resulted in an appropriate estimation of the 
total weight components in individuals subjected to bariatric surgery allowing a 
more real analysis of the variation of weight after the surgery.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/843253
PMCID: PMC3913190
PMID: 24523649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. J Res Med Sci. 2013 Dec;18(12):1040-5.

Life expectancy after HIV diagnosis based on data from the counseling center for 
behavioral diseases.

Mohammadi-Moein HR(1), Maracy MR(1), Tayeri K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.
(2)Counseling Center for Behavioral Diseases, Isfahan University of Medical 
Sciences, Isfahan, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Predicting life expectancy is an important component of public 
health, in that, it may affect policy making in fields such as social security 
and medical care., To estimate the life expectancy and the average years of life 
lost (AYLL) of the human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)/acquired immunodeficiency 
syndrome (AIDS)-infected population, compared with that of the general 
population, and also to assess the impact of the CD4 count, risk factors of 
transmission, marital status, and employment status on life expectancy.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: This study is a population-based cohort study. The sample 
consisted of HIV/AIDS-infected patients receiving care from 2001-2011. The 
patients were all adults (20-64 years) who were recruited from the Counseling 
Center of Behavioral Diseases. Life expectancy was measured based on an abridged 
life table, according to age-specific mortality rates and average years of life 
lost (AYLL) during the study period.
RESULTS: Forty-three of the 205 eligible patients died during 853 person-years 
follow-up. Compared to the general population, the life expectancy for patients 
with HIV infection at age 20 is about 36 years less. We have found that out a 
total of 1597 years of life lost during 2001-2011, compared to an overall AYLL 
for all HIV/AIDS, the deaths had occurred 36 years earlier than the life 
expectancy.
CONCLUSION: Life expectancy in HIV/AIDS-infected patients is about 38 years less 
than that of the general population at the exact age of 20. The deaths caused by 
HIV/AIDS occurred about 36 years before what was expected in the general 
population at ages 20-64, and many of these years of life lost could be saved if 
the health care system was implemented against the risk factors of HIV/AIDS.

PMCID: PMC3908523
PMID: 24523793

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


339. PLoS One. 2014 Feb 11;9(2):e88487. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088487. 
eCollection 2014.

Nutrient deprivation induces property variations in spider gluey silk.

Blamires SJ(1), Sahni V(2), Dhinojwala A(2), Blackledge TA(3), Tso IM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Science, Tunghai University, Taichung, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Polymer Science, The University of Akron, Akron, Ohio, United 
States of America.
(3)Department of Biology, Integrated Bioscience Program, The University of 
Akron, Akron, Ohio, United States of America.

Understanding the mechanisms facilitating property variability in biological 
adhesives may promote biomimetic innovations. Spider gluey silks such as the 
spiral threads in orb webs and the gumfoot threads in cobwebs, both of which 
comprise of an axial thread coated by glue, are biological adhesives that have 
variable physical and chemical properties. Studies show that the physical and 
chemical properties of orb web gluey threads change when spiders are deprived of 
food. It is, however, unknown whether gumfoot threads undergo similar property 
variations when under nutritional stress. Here we tested whether protein 
deprivation induces similar variations in spiral and gumfoot thread morphology 
and stickiness. We manipulated protein intake for the orb web spider Nephila 
clavipes and the cobweb spider Latrodectus hesperus and measured the diameter, 
glue droplet volume, number of droplets per mm, axial thread width, thread 
stickiness and adhesive energy of their gluey silks. We found that the gluey 
silks of both species were stickier when the spiders were deprived of protein 
than when the spiders were fed protein. In N. clavipes a concomitant increase in 
glue droplet volume was found. Load-extension curves showed that protein 
deprivation induced glue property variations independent of the axial thread 
extensions in both species. We predicted that changes in salt composition of the 
glues were primarily responsible for the changes in stickiness of the silks, 
although changes in axial thread properties might also contribute. We, 
additionally, showed that N. clavipes' glue changes color under protein 
deprivation, probably as a consequence of changes to its biochemical 
composition.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0088487
PMCID: PMC3921163
PMID: 24523902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


340. BMC Public Health. 2014 Feb 13;14:162. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-162.

What type of rural? Assessing the variations in life expectancy at birth at 
small area-level for a small population province using classes of locally 
defined settlement types.

Terashima M(1), Read Guernsey J, Andreou P.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health & Epidemiology, Dalhousie University, 5790 
University Avenue, Halifax, Nova Scotia B3H 1V7, Canada. 
mikiko.terashima@dal.ca.

BACKGROUND: Although efforts have been made to articulate rural-urban health 
inequalities in recent years, results have been inconsistent due to different 
geographical scales used in these studies. Small-area level investigations of 
health inequalities will likely show more detailed pictures of health 
inequalities among diverse rural communities, but they are difficult to conduct, 
particularly in a small population region. The objectives of this study were: 1) 
to compare life expectancy at birth for females and males across small-areas 
classified by locally defined settlement types for a small province in Canada; 
2) to assess whether any of the settlement types explains variations in life 
expectancy over and above the extent of socioeconomic disadvantage and social 
isolation; and 3) to examine variations in life expectancies within a (larger) 
area unit used as the basis of health inequality investigations in previous 
studies.
METHODS: Seven settlement types were determined for the 'community' units based 
on population per-kilometre-road density and settlement forms. Mean life 
expectancies at birth for both genders were compared by settlement type, both 
for the entire province and within the Halifax Regional Municipality--the 
province's only census designated metropolitan area, but also contains rural 
settlements. Linear regression analyses were conducted to assess the statistical 
associations between life expectancy and the settlement types, adjusting for 
indicators of community-level deprivation.
RESULTS: While types of communities considered as 'rural' generally had lower 
life expectancy for both genders, the effects of living in any settlement type 
were attenuated once adjusted for socioeconomic deprivation and social 
isolation. An exception was the village and settlement cluster type, which had 
additionally negative effects on health for females. There were some variations 
observed within the Halifax Regional Municipality, suggesting the importance of 
further investigating a variety of health and disease outcomes at smaller 
area-levels than those employed in previous studies.
CONCLUSIONS: This paper highlighted the importance of further articulating the 
differences in the characteristics of rural at finer area-levels and the 
differential influence they may have on health. Further efforts are desirable to 
overcome various data challenges in order to extend the investigation of health 
inequalities to hard-to-study provinces.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-162
PMCID: PMC3925774
PMID: 24524307 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Rejuvenation Res. 2014 Jun;17(3):297-305. doi: 10.1089/rej.2013.1527. Epub
2014  Jun 11.

The unexpected outcomes of anti-aging, rejuvenation, and life extension studies: 
an origin of modern therapies.

Stambler I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Science, Technology and Society, Bar Ilan University , Israel .

The search for life-extending interventions has been often perceived as a purely 
academic pursuit, or as an unorthodox medical enterprise, with little or no 
practical outcome. Yet, in fact, these studies, explicitly aiming to prolong 
human life, often constituted a formidable, though hardly ever acknowledged, 
motivation for biomedical research and discovery. At least several modern 
biomedical fields have originated directly from rejuvenation and life extension 
research: (1) Hormone replacement therapy was born in Charles-Edouard 
Brown-Séquard's rejuvenation experiments with animal gland extracts (1889). (2) 
Probiotic diets originated in Elie Metchnikoff's conception of radically 
prolonged "orthobiosis" (c. 1900). (3) The development of clinical endocrinology 
owed much to Eugen Steinach's "endocrine rejuvenation" operations (c. 
1910s-1920s). (4) Tissue transplantations in humans (allografts and xenografts) 
were first widely performed in Serge Voronoff's "rejuvenation by grafting" 
experiments (c. 1910s-1920s). (5) Tissue engineering was pioneered during Alexis 
Carrel's work on cell and tissue immortalization (c. 1900-1920). (6) Cell 
therapy (and particularly human embryonic cell therapy) was first widely 
conducted by Paul Niehans for the purposes of rejuvenation as early as the 
1930s. Thus, the pursuit of life extension and rejuvenation has constituted an 
inseparable and crucial element in the history of biomedicine. Notably, the 
common principle of these studies was the proactive maintenance of stable, 
long-term homeostasis of the entire organism.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2013.1527
PMID: 24524368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Am J Public Health. 2014 Apr;104(4):696-701. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301651.
Epub  2014 Feb 13.

Cumulative risk of Guillain-Barré syndrome among vaccinated and unvaccinated 
populations during the 2009 H1N1 influenza pandemic.

Vellozzi C(1), Iqbal S, Stewart B, Tokars J, DeStefano F.

Author information:
(1)Claudia Vellozzi, Shahed Iqbal, Brock Stewart, and Frank DeStefano are with 
the Immunization Safety Office, National Center for Emerging and Zoonotic 
Infectious Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA. 
Jerome Tokars is with the Influenza Division, National Center for Immunization 
and Respiratory Diseases, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention.

OBJECTIVES: We sought to assess risk of Guillain-Barré syndrome (GBS) among 
influenza A (H1N1) 2009 monovalent (pH1N1) vaccinated and unvaccinated 
populations at the end of the 2009 pandemic.
METHODS: We applied GBS surveillance data from a US population catchment area of 
45 million from October 15, 2009, through May 31, 2010. GBS cases meeting 
Brighton Collaboration criteria were included. We calculated the incidence 
density ratio (IDR) among pH1N1 vaccinated and unvaccinated populations. We also 
estimated cumulative GBS risk using life table analysis. Additionally, we used 
vaccine coverage data and census population estimates to calculate denominators.
RESULTS: There were 392 GBS cases; 64 (16%) occurred after pH1N1vaccination. The 
vaccinated population had lower average risk (IDR = 0.83, 95% confidence 
interval = 0.63, 1.08) and lower cumulative risk (6.6 vs 9.2 cases per million 
persons, P = .012) of GBS.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that at the end of the influenza season 
cumulative GBS risk was less among the pH1N1vaccinated than the unvaccinated 
population, suggesting the benefit of vaccination as it relates to GBS. The 
observed potential protective effect on GBS attributed to vaccination warrants 
further study.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301651
PMCID: PMC4025712
PMID: 24524517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Glob Public Health. 2014;9(3):271-85. doi: 10.1080/17441692.2014.882374.
Epub  2014 Feb 14.

Old-age pensions and population health: a global and cross-national perspective.

Sjöberg O(1).

Author information:
(1)a Swedish Institute for Social Research , Stockholm University , Stockholm , 
Sweden.

Social security schemes can reduce poverty risk and increase resources available 
for individuals and families, and these schemes may therefore have an important 
role to play in population health in both high- and middle-income countries. 
This article analyses the linkage between effective coverage of old-age pension 
schemes and life expectancy in a sample of 93 high- and middle-income countries 
at the end of the twenty-first century. The analyses support the notion that 
social security schemes, and especially programmes with a universal approach, 
may have positive effects on population health, even after taking into account 
the effect of levels of economic development, income inequality and essential 
characteristics of health care systems. This article also demonstrates that 
there is no evident relationship between levels of economic development and 
social security legislation: historically, late industrialisers were often first 
in introducing major social security schemes, and today there is no clear 
cross-national relationship between levels of economic development and the 
proportion of the population covered by old-age pension schemes.

DOI: 10.1080/17441692.2014.882374
PMID: 24524644 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Health Technol Assess. 2014 Feb;18(9):1-224. doi: 10.3310/hta18090.

Use of generic and condition-specific measures of health-related quality of life 
in NICE decision-making: a systematic review, statistical modelling and survey.

Longworth L(1), Yang Y(1), Young T(2), Mulhern B(2), Hernández Alava M(2), 
Mukuria C(2), Rowen D(2), Tosh J(2), Tsuchiya A(2), Evans P(2), Devianee 
Keetharuth A(2), Brazier J(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, Middlesex, UK.
(2)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
UK.

BACKGROUND: The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence recommends the 
use of generic preference-based measures (GPBMs) of health for its Health 
Technology Assessments (HTAs). However, these data may not be available or 
appropriate for all health conditions.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether GPBMs are appropriate for some key conditions 
and to explore alternative methods of utility estimation when data from GPBMs 
are unavailable or inappropriate.
DESIGN: The project was conducted in three stages: (1) A systematic review of 
the psychometric properties of three commonly used GPBMs [EQ-5D, SF-6D and 
Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3)] in four broadly defined conditions: visual 
impairment, hearing impairment, cancer and skin conditions. (2) Potential 
modelling approaches to 'map' EQ-5D values from condition-specific and clinical 
measures of health [European Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer 
Quality-of-life Questionnaire Core 30 (EORTC QLQ-C30) and Functional Assessment 
of Cancer Therapy - General Scale (FACT-G)] are compared for predictive ability 
and goodness of fit using two separate data sets. (3) Three potential extensions 
to the EQ-5D are developed as 'bolt-on' items relating to hearing, tiredness and 
vision. They are valued using the time trade-off method. A second valuation 
study is conducted to fully value the EQ-5D with and without the vision bolt-on 
item in an additional sample of 300 people.
SETTING: The valuation surveys were conducted using face-to-face interviews in 
the respondents' homes.
PARTICIPANTS: Two representative samples of the UK general population from 
Yorkshire (n=600).
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Comparisons of EQ-5D, SF-6D and HUI3 in four conditions 
with various generic and condition-specific measures. Mapping functions were 
estimated between EORTC QLQ-C30 and FACT-G with EQ-5D. Three bolt-ons to the 
EQ-5D were developed: EQ + hearing/vision/tiredness. A full valuation study was 
conducted for the EQ + vision.
RESULTS: (1) EQ-5D was valid and responsive for skin conditions and most 
cancers; in vision, its performance varied according to aetiology; and 
performance was poor for hearing impairments. The HUI3 performed well for 
hearing and vision disorders. It also performed well in cancers although 
evidence was limited and there was no evidence in skin conditions. There were 
limited data for SF-6D in all four conditions and limited evidence on 
reliability of all instruments. (2) Mapping algorithms were estimated to predict 
EQ-5D values from alternative cancer-specific measures of health. Response 
mapping using all the domain scores was the best performing model for the EORTC 
QLQ-C30. In an exploratory analysis, a limited dependent variable mixture model 
performed better than an equivalent linear model. In the full analysis for the 
FACT-G, linear regression using ordinary least squares gave the best predictions 
followed by the tobit model. (3) The exploratory valuation study found that 
bolt-on items for vision, hearing and tiredness had a significant impact on 
values of the health states, but the direction and magnitude of differences 
depended on the severity of the health state. The vision bolt-on item had a 
statistically significant impact on EQ-5D health state values and a full 
valuation model was estimated.
CONCLUSIONS: EQ-5D performs well in studies of cancer and skin conditions. 
Mapping techniques provide a solution to predict EQ-5D values where EQ-5D has 
not been administered. For conditions where EQ-5D was found to be inappropriate, 
including some vision disorders and for hearing, bolt-ons provide a promising 
solution. More primary research into the psychometric properties of the generic 
preference-based measures is required, particularly in cancer and for the 
assessment of reliability. Further research is needed for the development and 
valuation of bolt-ons to EQ-5D.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the UK Medical Research Council (MRC) as 
part of the MRC-NIHR methodology research programme (reference G0901486) and 
will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 18, No. 9. See 
the NIHR Journals Library website for further project information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta18090
PMCID: PMC4780954
PMID: 24524660 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Int J Pharm. 2014 Apr 25;465(1-2):143-58. doi:
10.1016/j.ijpharm.2014.02.009.  Epub 2014 Feb 10.

Enhancing the intestinal absorption of low molecular weight chondroitin sulfate 
by conjugation with α-linolenic acid and the transport mechanism of the 
conjugates.

Xiao Y(1), Li P(2), Cheng Y(3), Zhang X(2), Sheng J(2), Wang D(4), Li J(2), 
Zhang Q(2), Zhong C(2), Cao R(2), Wang F(5).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology of Natural Products (Ministry of 
Education), Institute of Biochemical and Biotechnological Drugs, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shandong University, Jinan 250012, China; College of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Taishan Medical University, Taian 271000, China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology of Natural Products (Ministry of 
Education), Institute of Biochemical and Biotechnological Drugs, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shandong University, Jinan 250012, China.
(3)Department of Pharmacology, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shandong 
University, Jinan 250012, China.
(4)College of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Taishan Medical University, Taian 271000, 
China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Chemical Biology of Natural Products (Ministry of 
Education), Institute of Biochemical and Biotechnological Drugs, School of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Shandong University, Jinan 250012, China; National 
Glycoengineering Research Center, Shandong University, Jinan 250012, China. 
Electronic address: 111925wj@163.com.

The purpose of this report was to demonstrate the effect of amphiphilic 
polysaccharides-based self-assembling micelles on enhancing the oral absorption 
of low molecular weight chondroitin sulfate (LMCS) in vitro and in vivo, and 
identify the transepithelial transport mechanism of LMCS micelles across the 
intestinal barrier. α-Linolenic acid-low molecular weight chondroitin sulfate 
polymers(α-LNA-LMCS) were successfully synthesized, and characterized by FTIR, 
(1)HNMR, TGA/DSC, TEM, laser light scattering and zeta potential. The 
significant oral absorption enhancement and elimination half-life (t₁/₂) 
extension of LNA-LMCS2 in rats were evidenced by intragastric administration in 
comparison with CS and LMCS. Caco-2 transport studies demonstrated that the 
apparent permeability coefficient (Papp) of LNA-LMCS2 was significantly higher 
than that of CS and LMCS (p<0.001), and no significant effects on the overall 
integrity of the monolayer were observed during the transport process. In 
addition, α-LNA-LMCS micelles accumulated around the cell membrane and 
intercellular space observed by confocal laser scanning microscope (CLSM). 
Furthermore, evident alterations in the F-actin cytoskeleton were detected by 
CLSM observation following the treatment of the cell monolayers with α-LNA-LMCS 
micelles, which further certified the capacity of α-LNA-LMCS micelles to open 
the intercellular tight junctions rather than disrupt the overall integrity of 
the monolayer. Therefore, LNA-LMCS2 with low cytotoxicity and high 
bioavailability might be a promising substitute for CS in clinical use, such as 
treating osteoarthritis, atherosclerosis, etc.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijpharm.2014.02.009
PMID: 24524826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. NeuroRehabilitation. 1995;5(3):245-54. doi: 10.3233/NRE-1995-5307.

Agitation in the older adult with traumatic brain injury.

Cifu DX(1), Anderson JC(1), Lopez E(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of PM & R, Brain Injury Rehabilitation Programs, Rehabilitation 
and Research Center, Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, VA 23298-0661, USA.

Improvements in medical care and health have resulted in an increase in life 
expectancy and with it a steady increase in the number of older adults, which 
has resulted in an increasing number of brain-injured older adults. There is 
limited information available however, which specifically defines the incidence, 
management and outcome of behavioral sequelae, specifically agitation, in the 
older adult with TBI. The vast majority of the available literature addressing 
interventions in the agitated older adult, focuses on the individual with a 
psychiatric or dementing process who is a resident of a long-term care facility. 
Agitated behavior in the older adult with acute brain injury differs from this 
patient population and therefore management must also differ. Management 
includes behavioral strategies, environmental modifications, structured therapy 
sessions, appropriate medical management and neuropharmacologic interventions. 
There are no controlled studies which utilize standardized measures and examine 
the efficacy of these behavioral, environmental, therapeutical and 
pharmacological interventions for agitation in the older adult following TBI. In 
general, considerable care must be taken when using medications in the older 
adult. Alterations in absorption, pharmacokinetics, liver and renal metabolism, 
receptor sensitivity, side-effect tolerance, and compliance must all be 
considered. This article aims to present available information and provide a 
practical and clinically effective guide for the management of agitation in the 
older adult with brain injury.

DOI: 10.3233/NRE-1995-5307
PMID: 24525539


347. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2014 Apr;12(2):151-63. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-014-0082-0.

Cost-utility analysis comparing heavy-weight and light-weight mesh in 
laparoscopic surgery for unilateral inguinal hernias.

Achelrod D(1), Stargardt T.

Author information:
(1)Hamburg Center for Health Economics (HCHE), University of Hamburg, Esplanade 
36, 20354, Hamburg, Germany, dmitrij.achelrod@wiso.uni-hamburg.de.

BACKGROUND: Hernioplasty is one of the most frequent surgeries in the UK. 
Light-weight mesh (LWM) has the potential to reduce chronic groin pain but its 
cost-effectiveness compared with heavy-weight mesh (HWM) is unknown.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to conduct a cost-utility analysis between 
laparoscopic hernioplasty with HWM and LWM for unilateral inguinal hernias.
METHODS: A Markov model simulated costs and health outcomes over a period of 
1 year (2012) from the societal and National Health Service (NHS) perspective 
(England). The main outcome was cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
gained. Surgery results were gleaned from the randomized control trial by 
Bittner et al. Other input parameters were drawn from the literature and public 
sources of the NHS.
RESULTS: From the societal perspective, LWM induces lower incremental costs 
(-£88.85) than HWM but yields a slightly smaller incremental effect (-0.00094 
QALYs). The deterministic incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for HWM 
compared with LWM amounts to £94,899 per QALY, while the probabilistic ICER is 
£118,750 (95 % confidence interval [CI] £57,603-180,920). Owing to the 
withdrawal of productivity losses from the NHS perspective, LWM causes higher 
incremental costs (£13.09) and an inferior incremental effect (-0.00093), 
resulting in a dominance of HWM over LWM (ICER 95 % CI -£12,382 to -£21,590).
CONCLUSIONS: There is no support for the adoption of LWM as standard treatment 
from an NHS perspective. However, given the small differences between HWM and 
LWM, LWM has at least the potential of improving patient outcomes and reducing 
expenditure from the societal perspective.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-014-0082-0
PMID: 24526592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Adv Wound Care (New Rochelle). 2013 Sep;2(7):389-399. doi: 
10.1089/wound.2012.0381.

Biofilms and Inflammation in Chronic Wounds.

Zhao G(1), Usui ML(1), Lippman SI(2), James GA(3), Stewart PS(3), Fleckman P(1), 
Olerud JE(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Dermatology, University of Washington , Seattle, Washington.
(2)Department of Genome Sciences, University of Washington , Seattle, 
Washington.
(3)Center for Biofilm Engineering, Montana State University , Bozeman, Montana.

SIGNIFICANCE: The incidence, cost, morbidity, and mortality associated with 
