
Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Faculty of Medicine, Heinrich-Heine University 
Duesseldorf; German Diabetes Center, Institute of Biometrics and Epidemiology, 
Duesseldorf, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy: Klinikum rechts der 
Isar, Technical University Munich, Munich, Germany.
(3)German Diabetes Center, Institute of Biometrics and Epidemiology, 
Duesseldorf, Germany.
(4)Department of Psychosomatic Medicine, University of Düsseldorf, and Centre 
for Psychosomatic Medicine, Justus Liebig University of Giessen, Giessen, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: A brief psychodynamic interpersonal therapy (PIT) in patients with 
multisomatoform disorder has been recently shown to improve health-related 
quality of life.
AIMS: To assess cost-effectiveness of PIT compared to enhanced medical care in 
patients with multisomatoform disorder.
METHOD: An economic evaluation alongside a randomised controlled trial 
(International Standard Randomised Controlled Trial Number ISRCTN23215121) 
conducted in 6 German academic outpatient centres was performed. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was calculated from the statutory health 
insurance perspective on the basis of quality adjusted life years (QALYs) gained 
at 12 months. Uncertainty surrounding the cost-effectiveness of PIT was 
presented by means of a cost-effectiveness acceptability curve.
RESULTS: Based on the complete-case analysis ICER was 41840 Euro per QALY. The 
results did not change greatly with the use of multiple imputation 
(ICER = 44222) and last observation carried forward (LOCF) approach to missing 
data (ICER = 46663). The probability of PIT being cost-effective exceeded 50% 
for thresholds of willingness to pay over 35 thousand Euros per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness of PIT is highly uncertain for thresholds of 
willingness to pay under 35 thousand Euros per QALY.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083894
PMCID: PMC3898909
PMID: 24465387 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


193. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 22;9(1):e85197. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085197. 
eCollection 2014.

Mobile HIV screening in Cape Town, South Africa: clinical impact, cost and 
cost-effectiveness.

Bassett IV(1), Govindasamy D(2), Erlwanger AS(3), Hyle EP(4), Kranzer K(5), van 
Schaik N(2), Noubary F(6), Paltiel AD(7), Wood R(8), Walensky RP(9), Losina 
E(10), Bekker LG(2), Freedberg KA(11).

Author information:
(1)Division of Infectious Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America ; Division of General Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America 
; Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America ; Harvard University Center for AIDS 
Research (CFAR), Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(2)Desmond Tutu HIV Centre, Institute of Infectious Disease and Molecular 
Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South 
Africa.
(3)Division of General Medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America ; Medical Practice Evaluation Center, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(4)Division of Infectious Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America ; Division of General Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America 
; Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America.
(5)Department of Infectious Disease Epidemiology, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.
(6)The Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical 
Center, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America ; Tufts Clinical and 
Translational Science Institute, Tufts University, Boston, Massachusetts, United 
States of America.
(7)Department of Health Policy and Management, Yale School of Public Health, New 
Haven, Connecticut, United States of America.
(8)Desmond Tutu HIV Centre, Institute of Infectious Disease and Molecular 
Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South 
Africa ; Department of Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape 
Town, Cape Town, South Africa.
(9)Division of Infectious Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America ; Division of General Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America 
; Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America ; Harvard University Center for AIDS 
Research (CFAR), Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America ; Division of 
Infectious Disease, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United 
States of America.
(10)Division of Infectious Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America ; Division of General Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America 
; Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America ; Harvard University Center for AIDS 
Research (CFAR), Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America ; Departments 
of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America ; Department of Orthopedic 
Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of 
America.
(11)Division of Infectious Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America ; Division of General Medicine, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America 
; Medical Practice Evaluation Center, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America ; Harvard University Center for AIDS 
Research (CFAR), Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America ; Departments 
of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Boston University School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America ; Department of Health Policy 
and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United 
States of America.

BACKGROUND: Mobile HIV screening may facilitate early HIV diagnosis. Our 
objective was to examine the cost-effectiveness of adding a mobile screening 
unit to current medical facility-based HIV testing in Cape Town, South Africa.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We used the Cost Effectiveness of Preventing AIDS 
Complications International (CEPAC-I) computer simulation model to evaluate two 
HIV screening strategies in Cape Town: 1) medical facility-based testing (the 
current standard of care) and 2) addition of a mobile HIV-testing unit 
intervention in the same community. Baseline input parameters were derived from 
a Cape Town-based mobile unit that tested 18,870 individuals over 2 years: 
prevalence of previously undiagnosed HIV (6.6%), mean CD4 count at diagnosis 
(males 423/µL, females 516/µL), CD4 count-dependent linkage to care rates (males 
31%-58%, females 49%-58%), mobile unit intervention cost (includes acquisition, 
operation and HIV test costs, $29.30 per negative result and $31.30 per positive 
result). We conducted extensive sensitivity analyses to evaluate input 
uncertainty. Model outcomes included site of HIV diagnosis, life expectancy, 
medical costs, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the 
intervention compared to medical facility-based testing. We considered the 
intervention to be "very cost-effective" when the ICER was less than South 
Africa's annual per capita Gross Domestic Product (GDP) ($8,200 in 2012). We 
projected that, with medical facility-based testing, the discounted 
(undiscounted) HIV-infected population life expectancy was 132.2 (197.7) months; 
this increased to 140.7 (211.7) months with the addition of the mobile unit. The 
ICER for the mobile unit was $2,400/year of life saved (YLS). Results were most 
sensitive to the previously undiagnosed HIV prevalence, linkage to care rates, 
and frequency of HIV testing at medical facilities.
CONCLUSION: The addition of mobile HIV screening to current testing programs can 
improve survival and be very cost-effective in South Africa and other 
resource-limited settings, and should be a priority.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085197
PMCID: PMC3898963
PMID: 24465503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


194. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 17;9(1):e85319. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085319. 
eCollection 2014.

Study on the trend and disease burden of injury deaths in Chinese population, 
2004-2010.

Zhang L(1), Li Z(1), Li X(1), Zhang J(1), Zheng L(1), Jiang C(1), Li J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prevention, Tongji University School of Medicine, Shanghai, 
China.

Injuries are a growing public health concern in China, accounting for more than 
30% of all Person Years of Life Lost (PYLL) due to premature mortality. This 
study analyzes the trend and disease burden of injury deaths in Chinese 
population from 2004 to 2010, using data from the National Disease Surveillance 
Points (DSPs) system, as injury deaths are classified based on the International 
Classification of Disease-10(th) Revision (ICD-10). We observed that injury 
death accounted for nearly 10% of all deaths in China throughout the period 
2004-2010, and the injury mortality rates were higher in males than those in 
females, and higher in rural areas than in urban areas. Traffic crashes 
(33.79-38.47% of all injury deaths) and suicides (16.20-22.01%) were the two 
leading causes of injury deaths. Alarmingly, suicide surpassed traffic crashes 
as the leading cause of injury mortality in rural females, yet adults aged 65 
and older suffered the greatest number of fatal falls (20,701 deaths, 
2004-2010). The burden of injury among men (72.11%) was about three times more 
than that of women's (28.89%). This study provides indispensible evidence that 
China Authority needs to improve the surveillance and deterrence of three major 
types of injuries: Traffic-related injury deaths should be targeted for injury 
prevention activities in all population, people aged 65+ should be encouraged to 
take individual fall precautions, and prevention of suicidal behavior in rural 
females should be another key priority for the government of China.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085319
PMCID: PMC3894968
PMID: 24465534 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


195. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 21;9(1):e85963. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085963. 
eCollection 2014.

The proximate causes of sexual size dimorphism in Phrynocephalus przewalskii.

Zhao W(1), Liu NF(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou, China.

Sexual size dimorphism (SSD) is a common phenomenon and is a central topic in 
evolutionary biology. Recently, the importance of pursuing an ontogenetic 
perspective of SSD has been emphasized, to elucidate the proximate physiological 
mechanisms leading to its evolution. However, such research has seldom focused 
on the critical periods when males and females diverge. Using mark-recapture 
data, we investigated the development of SSD, sex-specific survivorship, and 
growth rates in Phrynocephalus przewalskii (Agamidae). We demonstrated that both 
male and female lizards are reproductively mature at age 10-11 months (including 
5 months hibernation). Male-biased SSD in snout-vent length (SVL) was only found 
in adults and was fully expressed at age 11 months (June of the first full 
season of activity), just after sexual maturation. However, male-biased SSD in 
tail length (TL), hind-limb length (LL), and head width (HW) were fully 
expressed at age 9-10 months, just before sexual maturation. Analysis of 
age-specific linear growth rates identified sexually dimorphic growth during the 
fifth growth month (age 10-11 months) as the proximate cause of SSD in SVL. The 
males experienced higher mortality than females in the first 2 years and only 
survived better than females after SSD was well developed. This suggests that 
the critical period of divergence in the sizes of male and female P. przewalskii 
occurs between 10 and 11 months of age (May to June during the first full season 
of activity), and that the sexual difference in growth during this period is the 
proximate cause. However, the sexual difference in survivorship cannot explain 
the male-biased SSD in SVL. Our results indicate that performance-related 
characteristics, such as TL, HW, and LL diverged earlier than SVL. The 
physiological mechanisms underlying the different growth patterns of males and 
females may reflect different energy allocations associated with their different 
reproductive statuses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0085963
PMCID: PMC3897606
PMID: 24465815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


196. Korean J Urol. 2014 Jan;55(1):9-16. doi: 10.4111/kju.2014.55.1.9. Epub 2014
Jan  15.

Hypogonadism in human immunodeficiency virus-positive men.

Ashby J(1), Goldmeier D(2), Sadeghi-Nejad H(3).

Author information:
(1)Berkshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, Slough, UK.
(2)Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, St Mary's Hospital, London, UK.
(3)Division of Urology, Department of Surgery, UMDNJ New Jersey Medical School, 
Newark, NJ, USA.

In recent years, the life expectancy for those living with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) with access to combined antiretroviral therapy 
(cART) has increased. As men live longer, the role testosterone plays in sexual 
function as well as in general well-being is becoming increasingly important. 
Here we discuss the available literature concerning androgens and HIV disease. A 
review was undertaken by using a PubMed search with the umbrella terms HIV or 
AIDS and testosterone or androgens spanning 1985 to 2011. Significant articles 
found in references in the primary search were also included. The reported 
prevalence of androgen deficiency appears to be greater in HIV-infected males 
than in the general population. Androgen deficiency is usually associated with 
low luteinizing hormone and follicle-stimulating hormone and is sensitive to the 
type of measurement of testosterone used. Rates of hypogonadism may be falling 
since the advent of cART. Causes of low testosterone levels have been attributed 
to chronic illness, HIV replication, cART, opportunistic infections, 
comorbidities and coinfections, wasting, and normal age-related declines. 
Studies of testosterone treatment in HIV-positive men are lacking in 
standardization and outcome measures.

DOI: 10.4111/kju.2014.55.1.9
PMCID: PMC3897637
PMID: 24466391

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have nothing to disclose.


197. Curr Transl Geriatr Exp Gerontol Rep. 2013 Dec 13;2(4):239-246. doi: 
10.1007/s13670-013-0062-5.

Caloric Restriction to Moderate Senescence: Mechanisms and Clinical Utility.

Anton SD(1), Karabetian C(2), Heekin K(1), Leeuwenburgh C(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Aging and Geriatric Research, Institute on Aging, 2004 E. Mowry 
Road, University of Florida, Gainesville, FL 32610, (352) 273-7514.
(2)Department of Clinical and Health Psychology, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL 32610, (352) 273-7514.

As life expectancy in the United States continues to increase, the maintenance 
of physical independence among older Americans has emerged as a major clinical 
and public health priority. Therefore, there is an urgent need to identify 
interventions that can maintain or enhance cognitive and physical function with 
the goal of preventing or delaying the onset of disability. To date, caloric 
restriction (CR) is the only method that has been consistently found to increase 
lifespan and delay the onset of age-associated diseases such as cancer and 
diabetes across multiple species. The promise of calorie restriction as an 
intervention to improve health and/or maintain function in humans, however, only 
holds if individuals are able to adhere to this intervention over the long-term. 
Unfortunately, long-term adherence to CR regimens is notoriously poor likely due 
to complex interactions between behavioral, physiological, psychological, and 
environmental variables. Thus, a current challenge for both researchers and 
clinicians is to identify methods that can assist individuals in maintaining CR 
over the long-term.

DOI: 10.1007/s13670-013-0062-5
PMCID: PMC3899841
PMID: 24466503

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Stephen D. Anton has 
received compensation from Elsevier for serving on the Scientific Advisory Board 
of Experimental Gerontology. Christy Karabetian declares that she has no 
conflict of interest. Kacey Heekin declares that she has no conflict of 
interest. Christiaan Leeuwenburgh has received financial support through a grant 
from the University of Florida.


198. J Proteome Res. 2014 Apr 4;13(4):2045-55. doi: 10.1021/pr4011926. Epub 2014
Mar  4.

Lifelong exercise training modulates cardiac mitochondrial phosphoproteome in 
rats.

Ferreira R(1), Vitorino R, Padrão AI, Espadas G, Mancuso FM, Moreira-Gonçalves 
D, Castro-Sousa G, Henriques-Coelho T, Oliveira PA, Barros AS, Duarte JA, Sabidó 
E, Amado F.

Author information:
(1)QOPNA, Department of Chemistry and ¶School of Health Sciences, University of 
Aveiro , Aveiro 3810-193, Portugal.

Moderate physical activity has traditionally been associated with the 
improvement of cardiac function and, consequently, with the extension of life 
span. Mitochondria play a key role in the adaptation of heart muscle to 
exercise-related metabolic demands. In order to disclose the molecular 
mechanisms underlying the beneficial effect of lifelong physical activity in 
cardiac function, we performed label-free quantitative mass spectrometry-based 
proteomics of Sprague-Dawley rat heart mitochondrial proteome and 
phosphoproteome. Our data revealed that 54 weeks of moderate treadmill exercise 
modulates the abundance of proteins involved in the generation of precursor 
metabolites and cellular respiration, suggesting an increase in carbohydrate 
oxidation-based metabolism. Moreover, from the 1335 phosphopeptides identified 
in this study, 6 phosphosites were exclusively assigned to heart mitochondria 
from sedentary rats and 17 to exercised animals, corresponding to 6 and 16 
proteins, respectively. Most proteins exhibiting significant alterations in 
specific phosphorylation sites were involved in metabolism. Analysis of the 
acquired data led to the identification of several kinases potentially modulated 
by exercise training, which were selected for further validation. Indeed, higher 
protein abundance levels of RAF and p38 in mitochondria were confirmed to be 
modulated by sustained exercise. Our work describes the plasticity of heart 
mitochondria in response to long exercise programs manifested by the 
reprogramming of phosphoproteome and provides evidence for the kinases involved 
in the regulation of metabolic pathways and mitochondrial maintenance.

DOI: 10.1021/pr4011926
PMID: 24467267 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


199. Curr HIV Res. 2013 Oct;11(7):570-5. doi: 10.2174/1570162x12666140128121900.

Outcomes in older versus younger patients over 96 weeks in HIV-1- infected 
patients treated with rilpivirine or efavirenz in ECHO and THRIVE.

Ryan R, Dayaram YK, Schaible D, Coate B, Anderson D(1).

Author information:
(1)Janssen Scientific Affairs, LLC, 1125 Trenton-Harbourton Road, Titusville, NJ 
08560, USA. DAnder20@its.jnj.com.

OBJECTIVES: Increasing life expectancy of HIV-1-infected patients raises 
interest in how trial results apply to older patients. This post-hoc analysis 
evaluated potential differences in efficacy and safety in older (≥50 years) 
versus younger (<50 years) patients in the ECHO and THRIVE trials over 96 weeks.
METHODS: HIV-infected, treatment-naïve adults were randomized to receive 
rilpivirine (RPV) or efavirenz (EFV), plus a background regimen. Virologic 
response rates (FDA snapshot analysis; HIV-1 RNA <50 copies/mL) were assessed at 
Week 96. Total-body bone mineral density was evaluated at baseline and Week 96 
by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry scans. Serum concentrations of 25-hydroxy 
vitamin D (ECHO trial only) were also measured at baseline, Week 24 and Week 48.
RESULTS: 1368 patients were treated. At Week 96, virologic response rates were 
similar between older (77%) and younger (76%) RPV-treated patients and 
numerically higher in older (84%) versus younger (76%) EFV-treated patients. No 
clinically relevant age-related differences were observed in immunologic 
responses. Small differences were noted in older versus younger patients in 
adverse events (higher rates of depression, insomnia, and rash in older 
EFV-treated patients), laboratory abnormalities (increased low-density 
lipoprotein cholesterol and hyperglycemia in older EFV-treated patients and 
increased amylase in older patients across treatments), bone mineral density 
(larger decreases in older patients across treatments), and progression to 
severe vitamin D deficiency (greater in older versus younger EFV-treated 
patients).
CONCLUSION: Efficacy and safety outcomes were generally similar in older versus 
younger patients in the ECHO and THRIVE trials.

DOI: 10.2174/1570162x12666140128121900
PMCID: PMC3960940
PMID: 24467642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


200. Surgery. 2014 Apr;155(4):623-32. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2013.11.009. Epub 2013
Nov  22.

Early mortality and long-term survival after abdominal surgery in patients with 
liver cirrhosis.

Neeff HP(1), Streule GC(2), Drognitz O(2), Tittelbach-Helmrich D(2), Spangenberg 
HC(3), Hopt UT(2), Makowiec F(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of General and Digestive Surgery, University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany. Electronic address: hannes.neeff@uniklinik-freiburg.de.
(2)Department of General and Digestive Surgery, University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology & Hepatology, University of Freiburg, 
Freiburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Patients with liver cirrhosis have an increased risk of 
postoperative mortality. In addition, cirrhotic patients per se have a reduced 
life expectancy. Little is known about the combined effect of these factors on 
long-term outcomes after surgery. We thus evaluated early -and long-term 
survival in patients with cirrhosis who underwent abdominal surgery.
METHODS: We evaluated 30- and 90-day mortality as well as long-term survival 
after 212 general surgical procedures performed in 194 patients with liver 
cirrhosis. Risk factors for early and late mortality were assessed by uni- and 
multivariate methods. To avoid multicollinearity of data, different models 
(Child Turcotte Pugh [CTP], model for end-stage liver disease [MELD], or 
American Society of Anesthesiologists [ASA] score) were used in multivariate 
analysis.
RESULTS: The 30- and 90-day mortality rates were 20% and 30%, respectively. CTP, 
MELD, and ASA were all independently associated with 30- and 90-day mortality. 
Although emergency operations and intraoperative transfusions independently 
influenced 30-day mortality, 90-day mortality also was influenced by the extent 
of the procedure and thrombocytopenia. Survival after surgery (n = 180) was 54% 
after one and 25% after 5 years (median survival 1.24 years). Long-term survival 
was independently influenced by CTP, MELD, ASA, hyponatremia, emergency 
operations, thrombocytopenia, and underlying malignancies. Survival in patients 
discharged after surgery (n = 140) was 69% after 1 and 33% after 5 years (median 
survival 2.8 years). Survival after discharge was independently influenced by 
MELD, CTP, hyponatremia, underlying malignant disease, and (partially) by serum 
creatinine. The inclusion of serum sodium into MELD scores did not further 
facilitate prediction of early and late mortality.
CONCLUSION: A high postoperative mortality as well as a strongly reduced 
survival even after hospital discharge contribute to the very poor life 
expectancy in patients with liver cirrhosis requiring general surgery. 
Postoperative outcome is influenced by liver function, comorbidity and 
"surgical" factors such as the need for blood transfusion and emergent or major 
operations. However, after hospital discharge, "surgical" factors did not 
influence survival.

Copyright © 2013 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2013.11.009
PMID: 24468037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Neurologia. 2015 Apr;30(3):163-8. doi: 10.1016/j.nrl.2013.11.002. Epub 2014
Jan  24.

Cost-effectiveness of 5-aminolevulinic acid-induced fluorescence in malignant 
glioma surgery.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Slof J(1), Díez Valle R(2), Galván J(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidad Autónoma de Barcelona, Bellaterra, Cerdanyola del Vallès, España. 
Electronic address: ericjohn.slof@uab.cat.
(2)Departamento de Neurocirugía, Clínica Universidad de Navarra, Pamplona, 
España.
(3)Laboratorios Gebro Pharma S.A., Barcelona, España.

OBJECTIVE: This study evaluates the cost-effectiveness of 5-aminolevulinic acid 
(5-ALA, Gliolan®) in patients undergoing surgery for malignant glioma, in 
standard clinical practice conditions in Spain.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Cost-effectiveness ratios were determined in terms of 
incremental cost per complete resection (CR) and incremental cost per additional 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY), based on data collected in the VISIONA 
observational study.
RESULTS: Incremental cost with 5-ALA versus conventional surgery using white 
light only amounts to € 4550 per additional CR achieved and € 9021 per QALY 
gained. A sensitivity analysis shows these results to be robust.
CONCLUSION: Malignant glioma surgery guided by 5-ALA fluorescence entails a 
moderate increase in hospital costs compared to current surgical practice and 
can be considered a cost-effective innovation.

Copyright © 2013 Sociedad Española de Neurología. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.nrl.2013.11.002
PMID: 24468659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. 2013 Dec;20(6):547-52. doi: 
10.1097/01.med.0000436191.87727.ec.

Cystic fibrosis-related bone disease: insights into a growing problem.

Stalvey MS(1), Clines GA.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Pediatrics bDepartment of Medicine, University of Alabama at 
Birmingham cVeterans Administration Medical Center, Birmingham, Alabama, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: This review will describe the clinical significance, 
pathogenesis and treatment of cystic fibrosis related bone disease (CFBD).
RECENT FINDINGS: CFBD continues to increase as the life expectancy of 
individuals with cystic fibrosis increases. According to clinical guidelines, 
individuals with cystic fibrosis should be initially screened at the age of 18 
years via dual-energy x-ray absorptiometry, if not done so previously. The 
underlying pathogenesis of CFBD appears to be multifactorial, but increasing 
data imply a direct impact by the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance 
regulator (CFTR). CFTR deficiency and/or dysfunction impair osteoblast activity 
and differentiation, and indirectly promote osteoclast formation. Unfortunately, 
once diagnosed with CFBD, few cystic fibrosis tested medical therapies exist.
SUMMARY: CFBD is an increasingly recognized complication that has a significant 
impact on the overall health of the individual. Recommendations to identify 
patients with cystic fibrosis who are at risk for fracture using dual-energy 
x-ray absorptiometry have been established. Therapeutic agents directly studied 
in patients with cystic fibrosis are limited to bisphosphonates, although other 
potential treatment agents exist. Finally, an improved understanding of the 
pathologic mechanisms will aid in the study and development of therapies.

DOI: 10.1097/01.med.0000436191.87727.ec
PMCID: PMC4061713
PMID: 24468756 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Br J Surg. 2014 Feb;101(3):208-15. doi: 10.1002/bjs.9356.

Cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of endovascular versus open repair of 
ruptured abdominal aortic aneurysm in the Amsterdam Acute Aneurysm Trial.

Kapma MR(1), Dijksman LM, Reimerink JJ, de Groof AJ, Zeebregts CJ, Wisselink W, 
Balm R, Dijkgraaf MG, Vahl AC.

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Minimally invasive endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR) could be a 
surgical technique that improves outcome of patients with ruptured abdominal 
aortic aneurysm (rAAA). The aim of this study was to analyse the 
cost-effectiveness and cost-utility of EVAR compared with standard open repair 
(OR) in the treatment of rAAA, with costs per 30-day and 6-month survivor as 
outcome parameters.
METHODS: Resource use was determined from the Amsterdam Acute Aneurysm (AJAX) 
trial, a multicentre randomized trial comparing EVAR with OR in patients with 
rAAA. The analysis was performed from a provider perspective. All costs were 
calculated as if all patients had been treated in the same hospital (Onze Lieve 
Vrouwe Gasthuis, teaching hospital).
RESULTS: A total of 116 patients were randomized. The 30-day mortality rate was 
21 per cent after EVAR and 25 per cent for OR: absolute risk reduction (ARR) 4·4 
(95 per cent confidence interval (c.i.) -11·0 to 19·7) per cent. At 6 months, 
the total mortality rate for EVAR was 28 per cent, compared with 31 per cent 
among those assigned to OR: ARR 2·4 (-14·2 to 19·0) per cent. The mean cost 
difference between EVAR and OR was €5306 (95 per cent c.i. -1854 to 12,659) at 
30 days and €10,189 (-2477 to 24,506) at 6 months. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio per prevented death was €120,591 at 30 days and 
€424,542 at 6 months. There was no significant difference in quality of life 
between EVAR and OR. Nor was EVAR superior regarding cost-utility.
CONCLUSION: EVAR may be more effective for rAAA, but its increased costs mean 
that it is unaffordable based on current standards of societal 
willingness-to-pay for health gains.

© 2014 BJS Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.9356
PMID: 24469619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. J Neurooncol. 2014 Mar;117(1):153-60. doi: 10.1007/s11060-014-1368-7. Epub
2014  Jan 29.

Conditional probability of survival and post-progression survival in patients 
with glioblastoma in the temozolomide treatment era.

McNamara MG(1), Lwin Z, Jiang H, Chung C, Millar BA, Sahgal A, Laperriere N, 
Mason WP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Pencer Brain Tumor Centre, Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, 610 University Avenue, Toronto, ON, M5G 2M9, Canada.

With standard treatment for glioblastoma (GBM) consisting of surgery followed by 
radiotherapy (RT) with concurrent and adjuvant temozolomide (TMZ), median 
survival is ~14.6 months. This is not as informative to patients who have 
survived for some time. Conditional probability of survival may offer more 
relevant survival estimates. Outcomes/conditional probability of survival and 
post-progression survival (PPS) estimates were retrospectively reviewed in the 
TMZ treatment era of 882 consecutive patients with a diagnosis of GBM from 
January 2004 to August 2010. Median age of entire cohort was 62 years including 
62 % males. Baseline performance status (PS) was 0-1 in 67, 23 % had frontal 
lobe tumors, 58 % received concurrent RT/TMZ ± adjuvant TMZ. Survival (OS) was 
similar for those with frontal lobe tumors versus other locations (P = 0.25). OS 
for patients receiving standard RT/TMZ ± TMZ was 14.2 months. Age, PS, extent of 
surgery, therapy post-surgery had significant effects on OS. OS for entire 
cohort at 1, 2, 3, 4, 5 years was 43.4, 17.9, 10.4, 8.4, 7.2 % respectively. 
Conditional probability of survival of an additional year given survival to 1, 
2, 3, 4, 5 years was 41.4, 58, 80.7, 85.7, 81.5 % respectively. Conditional 
probability of survival for those patients receiving concurrent RT/TMZ ± 
adjuvant TMZ was similar. Patients who progress >18 months after their initial 
treatment for GBM had significantly greater 2 and 5 year PPS as well as OS. 
Conditional probabilities of survival may provide more meaningful life 
expectancy predictions for survivors of GBM than conventional survival outcomes.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-014-1368-7
PMID: 24469855 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Arthritis Rheumatol. 2014 Jun;66(6):1616-24. doi: 10.1002/art.38381.

Derivation and validation of a prediction rule for two-year mortality in early 
diffuse cutaneous systemic sclerosis.

Domsic RT(1), Nihtyanova SI, Wisniewski SR, Fine MJ, Lucas M, Kwoh CK, Denton 
CP, Medsger TA Jr.

Author information:
(1)University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

OBJECTIVE: Systemic sclerosis (SSc) is associated with a reduction in life 
expectancy, but there are no validated prognostic models for determining 
short-term mortality. The objective of this study was to derive and validate a 
prediction rule for 2-year mortality in patients with early diffuse cutaneous 
SSc (dcSSc).
METHODS: We studied a prospectively enrolled cohort of 387 US Caucasian patients 
with early dcSSc (<2 years from the appearance of the first symptom), randomly 
divided into a derivation cohort (n = 260) and a validation cohort (n = 127). 
Predefined baseline predictor variables were analyzed in a stepwise 
multivariable logistic regression model in order to identify factors 
independently associated with 2-year all-cause mortality using a cutoff of P < 
0.05. We rounded the beta values to the nearest integer and summed the points 
assigned to each variable in order to stratify patients into low-risk, 
moderate-risk, and high-risk groups. We then applied this rule to an external 
validation cohort of 110 Caucasian patients with early dcSSc from a single UK 
center and compared stratum-specific mortality using chi-square statistics.
RESULTS: Four independent predictor variables (with assigned integer values) 
comprised the model: age at first visit (points allotted: -1, 0, or 1), skin 
thickness progression rate (points allotted: 0 or 1), gastrointestinal tract 
severity (points allotted: 0, 1, or 2), and anemia (points allotted: 0 or 2). 
The prediction model performed well, with no significant differences between the 
derivation cohort and the US or UK validation cohorts in the low-risk and 
moderate-risk groups.
CONCLUSION: We derived a 4-variable prediction rule that can be used to stratify 
patients with early dcSSc into groups by risk of 2-year mortality, and we 
validated that prediction rule in US and UK cohorts.

Copyright © 2014 by the American College of Rheumatology.

DOI: 10.1002/art.38381
PMCID: PMC4180237
PMID: 24470430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest.


206. S Afr Med J. 2013 Nov;103(11):821-3. doi: 10.7196/samj.7564.

Get off your butt- and live longer.

Bateman C.

DOI: 10.7196/samj.7564
PMID: 24471187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Acta Med Croatica. 2013 Apr;67(2):179-89.

[Anti-TNF therapy in treatment of luminal Crohn's disease].

[Article in Croatian]

Marko B(1), Prka L(2).

Author information:
(1)Klinicka bolnica Dubrava, Zavod za gastroenterologiju, Odjel za upalne 
bolesti crijeva i klinicku prehranu, Zagreb, Hrvatska. mbanic@kbd.hr
(2)Klinicka bolnica Dubrava, Zavod za gastroenterologiju, Odjel za upalne 
bolesti crijeva i klinicku prehranu, Zagreb, Hrvatska.

Biologic drugs directed against main proinflammatory mediator in inflammatory 
bowel disease (IBD)--tumor necrosis factor alpha (TNFalpha)--represent very 
effective and clinically proven therapy of IBD. Meta-analysis and daily clinical 
practice confirm efficacy of infliximab and adalimumab in induction and 
maintenance of remission without steroids in patients with luminal Crohn's 
disease. Main therapeutic goals are reduction of complications, reduction of 
number of hospitalizations and surgical interventions and improvement of quality 
of life, work capacity and reproductive ability of patients. There are few very 
important issues that one must consider before starting an anti-TNF therapy in 
patients with luminal Crohn's disease. First, it is necessary to identify 
patients who failed to respond to conventional drugs and who would benefit the 
most from early application of biologics. It is very important to exclude 
presence of strictures or other complications like intraabdominal fistulas and 
collections before starting anti-TNF therapy. Once we decide to start biologic 
therapy, it is important to apply adequate dose and regime of anti-TNF therapy 
and to change and adjust treatment to achieve and maintain remission in patients 
who lose response. In general, treatment recommendations depend on disease 
activity and severity, extension and localization of lesions, comorbidities and 
possible complications of disease and/or treatment. There are few clinical 
instruments and laboratory surrogates that help us to assess disease activity. 
Most used are Crohn's Disease Activity Index (CDAI), Harvey- Bradshaw index 
(HBI), concentration of C-reactive protein (CRP) and fecal lactoferrin and 
calprotectin. In assessment of mucosal injury we rely on two complementary 
endoscopic indices of activity--Crohn's Disease Endoscopic Index of Severity 
(CDEIS) and Simple Endoscopic Score for Crohn's Disease (CD-SES). However, in 
time of diagnosis of Crohn's disease available clinical, serological or 
laboratory markers do not have acceptably predictive value for future disease 
behavior and there are still no genetic indicator that could predict disease 
course. There are some clinical and epidemiologic factors that could be related 
to unfavorable disease course. Age less than 40 years, extended disease, need 
for steroid therapy early after diagnosis and perianal disease are considered to 
predict worse prognosis in patients with luminal Crohn's disease. According to 
available data, it seems that early intensive therapy with anti-TNF drugs as 
monotherapy or in combination with immunosuppressive drugs in this group of 
patients increases possibility of induction of remission, mucosal healing and 
maintenance of steroid-free remission. Candidates for anti-TNF therapy are also 
patients who did not respond to conventional treatment, patients with moderate 
or severe disease who are intolerant to steroids, patients in whom we expect 
severe adverse effects from steroid treatment, patients who do not accept 
steroid treatment and patients with frequent relapses and need for steroids.

PMID: 24471301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Transpl Int. 2014 Jun;27(6):533-40. doi: 10.1111/tri.12280. Epub 2014 Feb
17.

Pediatric priority in kidney allocation: challenging its acceptability.

Capitaine L(1), Van Assche K, Pennings G, Sterckx S.

Author information:
(1)Bioethics Institute Ghent, Ghent University, Ghent, Belgium.

Comment in
    Transpl Int. 2014 Jun;27(6):530-2.

Any organ which is allocated to one individual represents a missed opportunity 
for someone else. Given the important repercussions which organ allocation 
policies inevitably have for certain people, any prioritization policy should 
rest on a solid argumentative basis. In this study, we analyze the widespread 
practice of prioritizing pediatric patients in the allocation of kidneys. While 
official policy documents offer no arguments in support of pediatric priority, 
such arguments can be found in the academic literature on pediatric renal 
transplantation. Our study is the first to bring together and critically analyze 
these. We identify five commonly cited arguments and show that none of these 
succeeds in justifying pediatric priority policies. We argue that the legitimacy 
of such policies may be further undermined by their potential adverse effects on 
both adults and children.

© 2014 Steunstichting ESOT.

DOI: 10.1111/tri.12280
PMID: 24471497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. J Obstet Gynaecol Res. 2014 Feb;40(2):301-11. doi: 10.1111/jog.12344.

Role of pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy in endometrial cancer: current 
evidence.

Bogani G(1), Dowdy SC, Cliby WA, Ghezzi F, Rossetti D, Mariani A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Gynecologic Surgery, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.

The aim of the present review is to summarize the current evidence on the role 
of pelvic and para-aortic lymphadenectomy in endometrial cancer. In 1988, the 
International Federation of Obstetrics and Gynecology recommended surgical 
staging for endometrial cancer patients. However, 25 years later, the role of 
lymph node dissection remains controversial. Although the findings of two large 
independent randomized trials suggested that pelvic lymphadenectomy provides 
only adjunctive morbidity with no clear influence on survival outcomes, the 
studies have many pitfalls that limit interpretation of the results. 
Theoretically, lymphadenectomy may help identify patients with metastatic 
dissemination, who may benefit from adjuvant therapy, thus reducing 
radiation-related morbidity. Also, lymphadenectomy may eradicate metastatic 
disease. Because lymphatic spread is relatively uncommon, our main effort should 
be directed at identifying patients who may potentially benefit from lymph node 
dissection, thus reducing the rate of unnecessary treatment and associated 
morbidity. This review will discuss the role of lymphadenectomy in endometrial 
cancer, focusing on patient selection, extension of the surgical procedure, 
postoperative outcomes, quality of life and costs. The need for new surgical 
studies and efficacious systemic drugs is recommended.

© 2014 Mayo Foundation for Medical Education and Research Journal of Obstetrics 
and Gynaecology Research © 2014 Japan Society of Obstetrics and Gynecology.

DOI: 10.1111/jog.12344
PMCID: PMC4364412
PMID: 24472047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. Int J Technol Assess Health Care. 2014 Jan;30(1):44-9. doi: 
10.1017/S0266462313000676. Epub 2014 Jan 29.

Using prediction intervals from random-effects meta-analyses in an economic 
model.

Teljeur C(1), O'Neill M(1), Moran P(1), Murphy L(1), Harrington P(1), Ryan M(1), 
Flattery M(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Information and Quality Authority.
(2)Baxter Healthcare Corporation.

OBJECTIVES: When incorporating treatment effect estimates derived from a 
random-effect meta-analysis it is tempting to use the confidence bounds to 
determine the potential range of treatment effect. However, prediction intervals 
reflect the potential effect of a technology rather than the more narrowly 
defined average treatment effect. Using a case study of robot-assisted radical 
prostatectomy, this study investigates the impact on a cost-utility analysis of 
using clinical effectiveness derived from random-effects meta-analyses presented 
as confidence bounds and prediction intervals, respectively.
METHODS: To determine the cost-utility of robot-assisted prostatectomy, an 
economic model was developed. The clinical effectiveness of robot-assisted 
surgery compared with open and conventional laparoscopic surgery was estimated 
using meta-analysis of peer-reviewed publications. Assuming treatment effect 
would vary across studies due to both sampling variability and differences 
between surgical teams, random-effects meta-analysis was used to pool effect 
estimates.
RESULTS: Using the confidence bounds approach the mean and median ICER was 
€24,193 and €26,731/QALY (95%CI: €13,752 to €68,861/QALY), respectively. The 
prediction interval approach produced an equivalent mean and median ICER of 
€26,920 and €26,643/QALY (95%CI: -€135,244 to €239,166/QALY), respectively. 
Using prediction intervals, there is a probability of 0.042 that robot-assisted 
surgery will result in a net reduction in QALYs.
CONCLUSIONS: Using prediction intervals rather than confidence bounds does not 
affect the point estimate of the treatment effect. In meta-analyses with 
significant heterogeneity, the use of prediction intervals will produce wider 
ranges of treatment effect, and hence result in greater uncertainty, but a 
better reflection of the effect of the technology.

DOI: 10.1017/S0266462313000676
PMID: 24472222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Longev Healthspan. 2013 Sep 16;2(1):14. doi: 10.1186/2046-2395-2-14.

Life-long spontaneous exercise does not prolong lifespan but improves health 
span in mice.

Garcia-Valles R, Gomez-Cabrera MC, Rodriguez-Mañas L, Garcia-Garcia FJ, Diaz A, 
Noguera I, Olaso-Gonzalez G, Viña J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physiology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Valencia, 
Fundacion Investigacion Hospital Clinico Universitario/INCLIVA, Av, Blasco 
Ibañez, 15, Valencia 46010, Spain. jose.vina@uv.es.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy at birth in the first world has increased from 35 
years at the beginning of the 20th century to more than 80 years now. The 
increase in life expectancy has resulted in an increase in age-related diseases 
and larger numbers of frail and dependent people. The aim of our study was to 
determine whether life-long spontaneous aerobic exercise affects lifespan and 
healthspan in mice.
RESULTS: Male C57Bl/6J mice, individually caged, were randomly assigned to one 
of two groups: sedentary (n = 72) or spontaneous wheel-runners (n = 72). We 
evaluated longevity and several health parameters including grip strength, motor 
coordination, exercise capacity (VO2max) and skeletal muscle mitochondrial 
biogenesis. We also measured the cortical levels of the brain-derived 
neurotrophic factor (BDNF), a neurotrophin associated with brain plasticity. In 
addition, we measured systemic oxidative stress (malondialdehyde and protein 
carbonyl plasma levels) and the expression and activity of two genes involved in 
antioxidant defense in the liver (that is, glutathione peroxidase (GPx) and 
manganese superoxide dismutase (Mn-SOD)). Genes that encode antioxidant enzymes 
are considered longevity genes because their over-expression may modulate 
lifespan. Aging was associated with an increase in oxidative stress biomarkers 
and in the activity of the antioxidant enzymes, GPx and Mn-SOD, in the liver in 
mice. Life-long spontaneous exercise did not prolong longevity but prevented 
several signs of frailty (that is, decrease in strength, endurance and motor 
coordination). This improvement was accompanied by a significant increase in the 
mitochondrial biogenesis in skeletal muscle and in the cortical BDNF levels.
CONCLUSION: Life-long spontaneous exercise does not prolong lifespan but 
improves healthspan in mice. Exercise is an intervention that delays 
age-associated frailty, enhances function and can be translated into the clinic.

DOI: 10.1186/2046-2395-2-14
PMCID: PMC3922914
PMID: 24472376


212. Clin Adv Hematol Oncol. 2013 Jun;11(6):341-7.

Managing breast cancer in the older patient.

O'Connor T(1), Shinde A(2), Doan C(2), Katheria V(2), Hurria A(2).

Author information:
(1)Roswell Park Cancer Institute, Buffalo, New York.
(2)City of Hope, Duarte, California.

Breast cancer is a disease that is associated with aging, with almost one-half 
of all new breast cancer cases diagnosed annually in the United States occurring 
in women ages 65 and older. Recent data suggest that although breast cancer 
outcomes in younger women have shown substantial improvement as a result of 
advances in treatment and screening, the benefits in older women have been less 
pronounced. Although older patients have been underrepresented in cancer 
clinical trials, there is an emerging body of literature to help guide treatment 
decisions. For early-stage breast cancer, the discussion regarding treatment 
options involves balancing the reduction in risk of recurrence gained by 
specific therapies with the potential for increased treatment-related toxicity, 
potentially exacerbated by physiological decline or comorbidities that often 
co-exist in the older population. A key component of care is the recognition 
that chronologic age alone cannot guide the management of an older patient with 
breast cancer. Rather, treatment decisions must also take into account a 
patient's functional status, estimated life expectancy, the risks and benefits 
of the therapy, potential barriers to treatment, and patient preference. This 
article reviews the available evidence for therapeutic management of early-stage 
breast cancer in older patients, and highlights data from the geriatric oncology 
literature that provide a basis on which to facilitate evidence-based treatment.

PMCID: PMC3906632
PMID: 24472802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. An Bras Dermatol. 2013 Nov-Dec;88(6):913-6. doi:
10.1590/abd1806-4841.20132090.

Obesity and dyslipidemia in patients with psoriasis treated at a dermatologic 
clinic in Manaus.

Santos M(1), Fonseca HM(2), Jalkh AP(3), Gomes GP(2), Cavalcante Ade S(4).

Author information:
(1)Alfredo da Matta Foundation, MD, PhD in Tropical Medicine - Dermatologist at 
the Alfredo da Matta Foundation (Fundação Alfredo da Matta - FUAM). Professor of 
dermatology at the State University of Amazonas (Universidade do Estado do 
Amazonas - UEA) - Manaus (AM), Brazil.
(2)State University of Amazonas, ManausAM, Brazil, Medical student at the State 
University of Amazonas (Universidade do Estado do Amazonas - UEA) - Manaus (AM), 
Brazil.
(3)Fundação de Medicina Tropical Dr. Heitor Vieira Dourado, ManausAM, Brazil, 
MD, Master's degree in infectious and parasitic diseases - Dermatologist at the 
Tropical Medicine Foundation (Fundação de Medicina Tropical Dr. Heitor Vieira 
Dourado - FMTAM) - Manaus (AM), Brazil.
(4)Fundação de Medicina Tropical Dr. Heitor Vieira, AM, Brazil, MD, 
Dermatologist - Dermatologist at the Tropical Medicine Foundation (Fundação de 
Medicina Tropical Dr. Heitor Vieira - FMTAM) - Manaus (AM), Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory disease of multifactorial 
etiology, with participation of genetic, autoimmune and environmental factors. 
Recent studies have demonstrated the role of inflammatory cells and mediators in 
the pathogenesis of psoriasis, which is now defined as a systemic and autoimmune 
inflammatory disease that may be associated with other diseases of inflammatory 
nature.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the occurrence of obesity and dyslipidemia in patients 
with psoriasis treated at a dermatology clinic in Manaus.
METHODS: We performed a prospective descriptive study to assess the prevalence 
of obesity and dyslipidemia in patients with psoriasis. Besides the recommended 
dermatological care, a physical examination was performed to measure weight, 
height and waist circumference.
RESULTS: We included 72 patients, 44 (61.1%) female and 28 (38.9%) male, with a 
mean age of 51.0 years ± 15.9 years. As for body mass index (BMI), 16 (22.2%) 
were overweight and 20 (27.8%) were obese. In the analysis of waist 
circumference in relation to gender, we found that 79.5% of women surveyed had 
central obesity, a percentage statistically higher than that observed among men 
(42.9%) at the 5% level of significance (p = 0.001). Regarding the diagnosis of 
dyslipidemia, 29 (65.9%) females and 22 (78.6%) males showed alterations in 
lipid profile.
CONCLUSIONS: The occurrence of dyslipidemia and obesity in patients with 
psoriasis can affect life quality and expectancy, increasing the risk of 
systemic and metabolic diseases, which makes periodic investigation of these 
comorbidities in patients with psoriasis mandatory.

FUNDAMENTOS: A psoríase é uma doença inflamatória crônica, com etiologia 
multifatorial, com participação de fatores genéticos, auto-imunes e ambientais. 
Estudos recentes demonstram o papel de células e mediadores inflamatórios na 
patogênese da psoríase, que passou a ser definida como uma afecção inflamatória 
sistêmica e auto-imune, podendo associarse a outras doenças de natureza 
inflamatória.
OBJETIVOS: Avaliar a ocorrência de obesidade e dislipidemia em pacientes com 
psoríase atendidos num ambulatório de dermatologia de Manaus.
MÉTODOS: Foi realizado estudo descritivo e prospectivo para avaliar a ocorrência 
de obesidade e dislipidemia em pacientes com psoríase. Além do atendimento 
dermatológico preconizado, foi realizado exame físico com medida de peso, altura 
e circunferência abdominal.
RESULTADOS: Foram incluídos 72 pacientes, sendo 44 (61,1%) do sexo feminino e 28 
(38,9%) do sexo masculino, com média de idade de 51,0 anos ± 15,9 anos. Quanto 
ao índice de massa corporal, 16 (22,2%) apresentavam sobrepeso e 20 (27,8%), 
obesidade. Na análise da circunferência abdominal em relação ao gênero, 
observou-se que 79,5% das mulheres examinadas apresentavam obesidade central, 
percentual estatisticamente maior que o observado entre os homens (42,9%), ao 
nível de 5% de significância (p= 0,001). Em relação ao diagnóstico de 
dislipidemia, 29 (65,9%) do sexo feminino e 22 (78,6%) do masculino apresentaram 
alteração no lipidograma.
CONCLUSÕES: A ocorrência de dislipidemia e obesidade nos pacientes com psoríase 
pode alterar a qualidade e expectativa de vida, aumentando o risco de doenças 
sistêmicas e metabólicas, o que torna obrigatória a investigação periódica 
dessas comorbidades nos portadores de psoríase.

DOI: 10.1590/abd1806-4841.20132090
PMCID: PMC3900341
PMID: 24474099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interests: none.


214. Braz J Otorhinolaryngol. 2013 Nov-Dec;79(6):760-79. doi: 
10.5935/1808-8694.20130138.

Endoscopic endonasal technique: treatment of paranasal and anterior skull base 
malignancies.

