non-healing of chronic skin wounds are dramatic. With the increasing numbers of 
people with obesity, chronic medical conditions, and an increasing life 
expectancy, the healthcare cost of non-healing ulcers has recently been 
estimated at $25 billion annually in the United States. The role played by 
bacterial biofilm in chronic wounds has been emphasized in recent years, 
particularly in the context of the prolongation of the inflammatory phase of 
repair.
RECENT ADVANCES: Rapid high-throughput genomic approaches have revolutionized 
the ability to identify and quantify microbial organisms from wounds. Defining 
bacterial genomes and using genetic approaches to knock out specific bacterial 
functions, then studying bacterial survival on cutaneous wounds is a promising 
strategy for understanding which genes are essential for pathogenicity.
CRITICAL ISSUES: When an animal sustains a cutaneous wound, understanding 
mechanisms involved in adaptations by bacteria and adaptations by the host in 
the struggle for survival is central to development of interventions that favor 
the host.
FUTURE DIRECTIONS: Characterization of microbiomes of clinically well 
characterized chronic human wounds is now under way. The use of in vivo models 
of biofilm-infected cutaneous wounds will permit the study of the mechanisms 
needed for biofilm formation, persistence, and potential synergistic 
interactions among bacteria. A more complete understanding of bacterial survival 
mechanisms and how microbes influence host repair mechanisms are likely to 
provide targets for chronic wound therapy.

DOI: 10.1089/wound.2012.0381
PMCID: PMC3763221
PMID: 24527355


349. Asia Pac Allergy. 2014 Jan;4(1):25-31. doi: 10.5415/apallergy.2014.4.1.25.
Epub  2014 Jan 31.

Prevalence of asthma and allergic rhinitis among adult population in 
Ulaanbaatar, Mongolia.

Sonomjamts M(1), Dashdemberel S(2), Logii N(3), Nakae K(4), Chigusa Y(4), Ohhira 
S(4), Ito C(5), Sagara H(6), Makino S(5).

Author information:
(1)School of Medicine, Health Sciences University of Mongolia, Ulaanbaatar 
210648, Mongolia.
(2)Department of Physiology, School of Bio-Medicine, Health Sciences University 
of Mongolia, Ulaanbaatar 210648, Mongolia.
(3)Department of Biochemistry and Laboratory, School of Bio-Medicine, Health 
Sciences University of Mongolia, Ulaanbaatar 210648, Mongolia.
(4)Dokkyo Medical University, Tochigi 321-0293, Japan.
(5)WHO Collaborating Centre for Prevention and Control of Chronic Respiratory 
Disease, Dokkyo Medical University, Tochigi 321-0293, Japan.
(6)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Dokkyo Medical University, Koshigaya 
Hospital, Saitama 343-8555, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Mongolia is changing lifestyle, unhealthy habits, increase of air 
pollution, increasing life expectancy have led to an up rise of chronic 
respiratory diseases. Over 10 years ago, the prevalence of asthma and allergic 
rhinoconjunctivitis in Mongolia were in the lower range reported from previous 
studies.
OBJECTIVE: The main aim of the survey is to know the prevalence of asthma and 
allergic rhinitis among adult population of Ulaanbaatar city, Mongolia and their 
risk factors.
METHODS: Total of approximately 1,200 adults aged 20 years and over were planned 
to be randomly selected. The questionnaire was developed on the basis of WHO 
Protocol for Assessment of Prevalence of Major Respiratory Diseases and modified 
by local risk factors assessment and by other international survey approach 
including Global Initiative for Asthma and European Community Respiratory Health 
Survey.
RESULTS: Prevalence of current wheezer in all age group was 15.7% (95% CI: 
14.7-16.8). Age and sex segregated distribution of current wheezer were defined 
among male and female and prevalence was 14.5% (95% CI: 13.3-16.2) in male and 
female 16.6% (95% CI: 15.2-18.3) respectively. Prevalence of diagnosed asthma 
among adults was 4.7% (95% CI: 4.3-5.6) in all age group, 3% (95% CI: 2.4-3.7) 
in male and 6.8% (95% CI: 5.8-7.9) in female. Prevalence of rhinoconjunctivitis 
was 14.6% in all age group. 28.4% out of subjects with allergic rhinitis has 
current asthma, while 11.6% of subjects without allergic rhinitis has asthma (p 
< 0.01).
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of asthma increased for one decade in Ulaanbaatar. 
Prevalence of diagnosed asthma is approximately 5% and current wheezer is 
approximately 15% in adults of population, which is close to other Asia and 
European countries. Allergic rhinitis is a risk factor for asthma.

DOI: 10.5415/apallergy.2014.4.1.25
PMCID: PMC3921862
PMID: 24527407


350. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2015 Feb;22(1):13-9. doi:
10.3109/09286586.2014.884601.  Epub 2014 Feb 14.

Cost-utility analysis of rhegmatogenous retinal detachment surgery in Shanghai, 
China.

Ma Y(1), Ying X, Zou H, Xu X, Liu H, Bai L, Xu X, Zhang X.

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Shanghai First People's Hospital, Affiliated 
Shanghai Jiaotong University , Shanghai , China .

PURPOSE: To perform a short-term and a long-term cost-utility analysis of 
rhegmatogenous retinal detachment (RRD) surgery in Shanghai, China.
METHODS: A total of 117 patients who underwent RRD surgery at Shanghai First 
People's Hospital, Affiliated Shanghai Jiaotong University, and then underwent 
follow-up for at least 1 year, were included in the study. Costs associated with 
RRD surgery and time trade-off utility values before and after surgery were 
recorded. Short-term analysis was made for 1 year. Quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) gained by RRD surgery over the lifetime were calculated at a 3% discount 
rate in the long-term analysis. This study used the bootstrap method in 
statistical analysis and one-way sensitivity analyses to test robustness of the 
results.
RESULTS: Compared with no treatment, the mean incremental costs of RRD surgery 
was 11,384 Chinese yuan (CN¥) (US$1751); the mean additional QALYs gained was 
0.05 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.04-0.06) for 1 year and 0.88 (95% CI 
0.64-1.13) for life expectancy; the incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
was CN¥224,921 (US$34,603)/QALY for the short-term, and CN¥13,794 (US$2122)/QALY 
for the long-term. In short-term analysis, the ICER was CN¥150,087 
(US$23,090)/QALY for scleral buckling surgery, and CN¥507,727 (US$78,112)/QALY 
for vitreous surgery. In the long-term analysis, the ICER was CN¥6280 
(US$966)/QALY for scleral buckling, and CN¥30,756 (US$4732)/QALY for vitreous 
surgery.
CONCLUSIONS: For RRD patients, surgery increases QALYs. In a 1-year analysis, 
surgery is not a cost-effective treatment, however it is cost-effective over the 
lifetime.

DOI: 10.3109/09286586.2014.884601
PMID: 24527711 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. J Neurosurg Spine. 2014 Apr;20(4):436-42. doi: 10.3171/2014.1.SPINE1228.
Epub  2014 Feb 14.

Health impact and economic analysis of NGO-supported neurosurgery in Bolivia.

Ament JD(1), Greene KR, Flores I, Capobianco F, Salas G, Uriona MI, Weaver JP, 
Moser R.

Author information:
(1)University of Massachusetts Medical Center, Worcester, Massachusetts;

OBJECT: Bolivia, one of the poorest countries in the world, ranks 108th on the 
2013 Human Development Index. With approximately 1 neurosurgeon per 200,000 
people, access to neurosurgery in Bolivia is a growing health concern. 
Furthermore, neurosurgery in nonindustrialized countries has been considered 
both cost-prohibitive and lacking in outcomes evaluation. A non-governmental 
organization (NGO) supports spinal procedures in Bolivia (Solidarity Bridge), 
and the authors sought to determine its impact and cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: In a retrospective review of prospectively collected data, 19 patients 
were identified prior to spinal instrumentation and followed over 12 months. For 
inclusion, patients required interviewing prior to surgery and during at least 2 
follow-up visits. All causes of spinal pathology were included. Sixteen patients 
met inclusion criteria and were therefore part of the analysis. Outcomes 
measured included assessment of activities of daily living, pain, ambulation, 
return to work/school, and satisfaction. Cost-effectiveness was determined by 
cost-utility analysis. Utilities were derived using the Health Utilities Index. 
Complications were incorporated into an expected value decision tree.
RESULTS: Median (± SD) preoperative satisfaction was 2.0 ± 0.3 (on a scale of 
0-10), while 6-month postoperative satisfaction was 7 ± 1.4 (p < 0.0001). 
Ambulation, pain, and emotional disability data suggested marked improvement 
(56%, 69%, and 63%, respectively; p = 0.035, 0.003, and 0.006). Total discounted 
incremental quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gain was 0.771. The total 
discounted cost equaled $9036 (95% CI $8561-$10,740) at 2 years. Computing the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio resulted in a value of $11,720/QALY, 
ranging from $9220 to $15,473/QALY in a univariate sensitivity analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: This NGO-supported spinal instrumentation program in Bolivia 
appears to be cost-effective, especially when compared with the conventional 
$50,000/QALY benchmark and the WHO endorsed country-specific threshold of 
$16,026/QALY. However, with a gross domestic product per capita in Bolivia 
equaling $4800 per year and 30.3% of the population living on less than $2 per 
day, this cost continues to appear unrealistic. Additionally, the study has 
several significant limitations, namely its limited sample size, follow-up 
period, the assumption that patients not receiving surgical intervention would 
not make any clinical improvement, the reliance on the NGO for patient selection 
and sustainable practices such as follow-up care and ancillary services, and the 
lack of a randomized prospective design. These limitations, as well as an 
unclear understanding of Bolivian willingness-to-pay data, affect the 
generalizability of the study findings and impede widespread economic policy 
reform. Because cost-effectiveness research may inevitably direct care decisions 
and prove that an effort such as this can be cost saving, a prospective, 
properly controlled investigation is now warranted.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.1.SPINE1228
PMID: 24527825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Alzheimers Dement. 2014 Feb;10(1 Suppl):S3-11. doi:
10.1016/j.jalz.2013.12.008.

The paradox of neuronal insulin action and resistance in the development of 
aging-associated diseases.

Steculorum SM(1), Solas M(1), Brüning JC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mouse Genetics and Metabolism, Institute for Genetics, 
University of Cologne, Köln, Germany; Center for Endocrinology, Diabetes and 
Preventive Medicine, University Hospital Cologne, Köln, Germany; Center for 
Molecular Medicine Cologne, Köln, Germany; Cologne Excellence Cluster on 
Cellular Stress Responses in Ageing Associated Diseases, Köln, Germany; 
Max-Planck-Institute for Neurological Research, Köln, Germany.
(2)Department of Mouse Genetics and Metabolism, Institute for Genetics, 
University of Cologne, Köln, Germany; Center for Endocrinology, Diabetes and 
Preventive Medicine, University Hospital Cologne, Köln, Germany; Center for 
Molecular Medicine Cologne, Köln, Germany; Cologne Excellence Cluster on 
Cellular Stress Responses in Ageing Associated Diseases, Köln, Germany; 
Max-Planck-Institute for Neurological Research, Köln, Germany. Electronic 
address: bruening@nf.mpg.de.

During past decades, ever-increasing life expectancy, despite the development of 
a sedentary lifestyle and altered eating habits, has led to a dramatic parallel 
increase in the prevalence of age-related diseases such as type 2 diabetes 
mellitus (T2DM) and neurodegenerative disorders. Converging evidence from animal 
and human studies has indicated that insulin resistance in the central nervous 
system (CNS) is observed in both T2DM and neurodegenerative disorders such as 
Alzheimer's disease (AD), leading to the hypothesis that impaired neuronal 
insulin action might be a unifying pathomechanism in the development of both 
diseases. This assumption, however, is in striking contrast to the evolutionary 
conserved, protective role of impaired insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 
signaling (IIS) in aging and in protein aggregation-associated diseases, such as 
AD. Thus, this review summarizes our current understanding of the physiological 
role of insulin action in various regions of the CNS to regulate neuronal 
function, learning, and memory, and to control peripheral metabolism. We also 
discuss mechanisms and clinical outcomes of neuronal insulin resistance and 
address the seeming paradox of how impaired neuronal IIS can protect from the 
development of neurodegenerative disorders.

Copyright © 2014 The Alzheimer's Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jalz.2013.12.008
PMID: 24529522 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2014 Dec;24(12):1947-53. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2014.01.020. Epub 2014 Jan 31.

Insulin and insulin-like growth factor receptors in the brain: physiological and 
pathological aspects.

Werner H(1), LeRoith D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Human Molecular Genetics and Biochemistry, Sackler School of 
Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Tel Aviv, Israel.
(2)Diabetes and Metabolism Clinical Research Center of Excellence, Clinical 
Research Institute at Rambam (LHCRIR), Rambam-Health Care Campus, P.O. Box 9602, 
Haifa 31096, Israel. Electronic address: d_leroith@rambam.health.gov.il.

The involvement of insulin, the insulin-like growth factors (IGF1, IGF2) and 
their receptors in central nervous system development and function has been the 
focus of scientific interest for more than 30 years. The insulin-like peptides, 
both locally-produced proteins as well as those transported from the circulation 
into the brain via the blood-brain barrier, are involved in a myriad of 
biological activities. These actions include, among others, neuronal survival, 
neurogenes, angiogenesis, excitatory and inhibitory neurotransmission, 
regulation of food intake, and cognition. In recent years, a linkage between 
brain insulin/IGF1 and certain neuropathologies has been identified. 
Epidemiological studies have demonstrated a correlation between diabetes (mainly 
type 2) and Alzheimer׳s disease. In addition, an aberrant decline in IGF1 values 
was suggested to play a role in the development of Alzheimer׳s disease. The 
present review focuses on the expression and function of insulin, IGFs and their 
receptors in the brain in physiological and pathological conditions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2014.01.020
PMID: 24529663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2014 Dec;32(10):662-5. doi: 
10.1016/j.eimc.2013.12.008. Epub 2014 Feb 14.

[Iatrogenic adrenal insufficiency secondary to an interaction between ritonavir 
and inhaled fluticasone. A review of the literature].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez-Cerquera JM(1), Hernando-López E(2), Blanco-Ramos JR(3).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Interna, Hospital San Pedro, Logroño, La Rioja, España. 
Electronic address: jmgomez@riojasalud.es.
(2)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital San Pedro, Logroño, La Rioja, España.
(3)Departamento de Enfermedades Infecciosas, Hospital San Pedro, Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica de La Rioja (CIBIR), Logroño, La Rioja, España.

INTRODUCTION: Highly effective antiretroviral treatment has improved the life 
expectancy of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected patients, but has led 
to an increase in the comorbidities related to aging, such as the chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). All this implies the need for a greater 
number of drugs and an increasing risk of drugs interactions with antiretroviral 
treatment, particularly protease inhibitors.
METHODS: We report a case of iatrogenic adrenal insufficiency interaction 
secondary to ritonavir and inhaled fluticasone in an HIV-infected patient with 
COPD. A review was made of the cases reported in adults in the medical 
literature (Medline) up to December 2012.
RESULTS: A total of 34 cases were reported. The mean age was 4 years. The mean 
dose of ritonavir was 187 mg/day, while the fluticasone dose was 866 μg/day. The 
average time of the interaction between ritonavir and fluticasone was 8 months. 
In 85% of cases fluticasone was discontinued at the time of diagnosis of adrenal 
insufficiency/Cushing syndrome. Almost all (90%) patients had a complete 
resolution of the symptoms after changing the treatment.
CONCLUSION: HIV-infected patients on antiretroviral therapy with protease 
inhibitor boosted with ritonavir which requires the use of inhaled 
corticosteroids, beclomethasone would be the best treatment option.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier España, S.L.U. y Sociedad Española de Enfermedades 
Infecciosas y Microbiología Clínica. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eimc.2013.12.008
PMID: 24529679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Ann Vasc Surg. 2014 Aug;28(6):1396-401. doi: 10.1016/j.avsg.2014.02.006.
Epub  2014 Feb 13.

Results of F-EVAR in octogenarians.

Hertault A(1), Sobocinski J(1), Kristmundsson T(2), Maurel B(1), Dias NV(2), 
Azzaoui R(1), Sonesson B(2), Resch T(2), Haulon S(3).

Author information:
(1)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, Hôpital Cardiologique, CHRU Lille, Lille, 
France.
(2)Vascular Center, Skåne University Hospital, Malmö, Sweden.
(3)Service de Chirurgie Vasculaire, Hôpital Cardiologique, CHRU Lille, Lille, 
France. Electronic address: haulon@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: To evaluate the clinical outcomes after fenestrated endovascular 
aortic aneurysm repair (F-EVAR) in octogenarians.
METHODS: Between 2002 and 2012, all data from patients treated with custom-made 
fenestrated endografts for elective juxtarenal or pararenal aortic aneurysms in 
2 high-volume centers (Malmö, Sweden & Lille, France) were prospectively entered 
in a computer database. Demographics and perioperative and follow-up results of 
patients aged ≥80 years (group 1) and patients aged <80 (group 2) were compared.
RESULTS: A total of 288 patients (33 in group 1 and 255 in group 2) were treated 
with fenestrated endografts during the study period. Except for median age, 
tobacco use, and maximal transaortic diameter (P = 0.001), both groups were 
comparable. The number of fenestrations, procedure duration, contrast media 
volume, length of stay, and number of secondary interventions were comparable. 
The 30-day mortality rate was higher in the octogenarian group (9% vs. 1.6%, P = 
0.041). Median follow-up was 25 months. Two-year survival rate according to 
Kaplan-Meier method was 77.8% in group 1 (95% confidence interval, 61.8-93.9) 
and 89.0% in group 2 (P = 0.121). Overall mortality during the follow-up period 
was significantly higher in octogenarians (P < 0.006).
CONCLUSIONS: F-EVAR in octogenarians is associated with a higher 30-day 
mortality rate but has similar midterm outcomes compared with younger patients 
and should be considered as an acceptable therapeutic option in patients with 
satisfactory life expectancy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.avsg.2014.02.006
PMID: 24530722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Math Biosci. 2014 Mar;249:102-9. doi: 10.1016/j.mbs.2014.01.009. Epub 2014
Feb  11.

A multi-stage compartmental model for HIV-infected individuals: II--application 
to insurance functions and health-care costs.

Billard L(1), Dayananda PW(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Statistics, University of Georgia, Athens, GA, United States. 
Electronic address: lynne@stat.uga.edu.
(2)Department of Mathematics, University of St. Thomas, St. Paul, MN, United 
States.

Stochastic population processes have received a lot of attention over the years. 
One approach focuses on compartmental modeling. Billard and Dayananda (2012) 
developed one such multi-stage model for epidemic processes in which the 
possibility that individuals can die at any stage from non-disease related 
causes was also included. This extra feature is of particular interest to the 
insurance and health-care industries among others especially when the epidemic 
is HIV/AIDS. Rather than working with numbers of individuals in each stage, they 
obtained distributional results dealing with the waiting time any one individual 
spent in each stage given the initial stage. In this work, the impact of the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic on several functions relevant to these industries (such as 
adjustments to premiums) is investigated. Theoretical results are derived, 
followed by a numerical study.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mbs.2014.01.009
PMID: 24530895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Vaccine. 2014 Apr 1;32(16):1814-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.01.094. Epub
2014  Feb 13.

Impact of measles national vaccination coverage on burden of measles across 29 
Member States of the European Union and European Economic Area, 2006-2011.

Colzani E(1), McDonald SA(2), Carrillo-Santisteve P(3), Busana MC(4), Lopalco 
P(3), Cassini A(3).

Author information:
(1)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), Stockholm, Sweden. 
Electronic address: edoardo.colzani@ecdc.europa.eu.
(2)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, 
The Netherlands.
(3)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)London School of Hygiene and Preventive Medicine, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Challenges in reaching good vaccination coverage against measles 
emerged in several European Union/European Economic Area Member States (EU/EEA 
MS) leading to progressive accumulation of susceptible individuals and 
outbreaks. The Burden of Communicable Diseases in Europe (BCoDE) project 
developed a methodology for measuring the burden of communicable diseases 
expressed in Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) in the EU/EEA MS. The aim of 
this study was to compare national vaccination coverage and burden of measles 
across EU/EEA MS.
METHODS: Country-specific data on measles national vaccination coverage 
2006-2011 from 29 EU/EEA MS (MCV1) were retrieved from Centralized Information 
System for Infectious Diseases (CISID). DALYs were calculated for each country 
separately using a disease progression model with a single input parameter 
(annual measles incidence, adjusted for under-estimation). A software 
application was used to compute estimated DALYs according to country-specific 
and year-specific population age-distributions (data retrieved from Eurostat). 
Log-linear mixed-effect regression modeling approach was used to investigate a 
linear relation between natural logarithm-transformed DALYs and coverage.
RESULTS: The reported annual vaccination coverage ranged from 72.6% to 100%. The 
estimated national annual burden ranged from 0 to 30.6 DALYs/100,000. Adjusting 
for year, there was a significant negative relationship between coverage and 
burden. For a given country there was a decrease in log-transformed 
DALYs/100,000 of 0.025 (95% confidence interval: -0.047 to -0.003) for every 
percentage increase in vaccination coverage. The largest effect of calendar time 
on estimated burden of measles was observed for the year 2011, the smallest was 
for the year 2007.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that the degree of success of national measles 
vaccination programs, when measured by the coverage obtained, is significantly 
associated with overall impact of measles across EU/EEA MS. In EU/EEA MS each 
percentage point increase in national vaccination coverage seems to lead to 
early significant reduction of overall burden of measles.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.01.094
PMID: 24530930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Recent Results Cancer Res. 2014;202:149-69. doi:
10.1007/978-3-642-45195-9_18.

Management of low risk and low PSA prostate cancer: long term results from the 
prostate cancer intervention versus observation trial.

Wilt TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Minneapolis VA Center for Chronic Diseases Outcomes Research, 1 Veterans 
Drive (111-0), Minneapolis, MN, 55417, USA, tim.wilt@va.gov.

Management of localized prostate cancer is controversial due in part to the lack 
of randomized controlled trial information in men diagnosed with prostate 
specific antigen (PSA) testing. Men with low risk or low PSA (<10 ng/ml) 
prostate cancer comprise up to 70 % of men currently diagnosed. Evidence 
suggests an excellent long-term prognosis with observation though nearly 90 % 
are treated with surgery (radical prostatectomy), external beam radiation, or 
brachytherapy. Results from the Prostate cancer Intervention Versus Observation 
Trial (PIVOT) provide high quality Level 1 evidence that observation compared to 
surgery results in similar long-term overall and prostate cancer survival, 
prevention of bone metastases and avoidance of surgery related harms. Combined 
with emerging evidence from screening, natural history, decision analysis and 
cost-effectiveness modeling studies, these data demonstrate that observation is 
the preferred treatment option for men with low risk and possibly low PSA 
prostate cancer. Recommending against PSA testing or, in men who still desire 
testing, raising thresholds of PSA values used to define abnormal, lengthening 
intervals between PSA tests and discontinuing testing in men with a life 
expectancy less than 15 years will reduce diagnostic and treatment related harms 
without adversely impacting overall or disease specific mortality and morbidity.

DOI: 10.1007/978-3-642-45195-9_18
PMID: 24531789 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2014 Apr;12(2):191-201. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-014-0084-y.

That's what friends are for: adolescent peer social status, health-related 
quality of life and healthcare costs.

Mundt MP(1), Zakletskaia LI.

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and 
Public Health, 1100 Delaplaine Ct., Madison, WI, 53715, USA, 
marlon.mundt@fammed.wisc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Social connections at all stages of life are essential for physical 
and mental well-being. Of particular importance are social relationships during 
adolescence that shape adult health behaviors and health outcomes.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to estimate the association between 
adolescent peer status in school and later-life quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) and healthcare costs.
METHODS: This study used social network and health outcomes data from Wave I 
(ages 12-18 years) and Wave III (ages 18-24 years) of the US National 
Longitudinal Study of Adolescent Health (n = 10,578) to compare QALYs and 
healthcare costs (in 2012 US$) by adolescent peer status in US schools. 
Generalized linear models controlled for school fixed effects, individual and 
family characteristics, and US census block neighborhood effects. Non-parametric 
bootstrapping accounted for residual skewness in QALYs and healthcare costs. Net 
monetary benefit (NMB) was calculated by converting adjusted 5-year QALYs into 
US$ values and subtracting 5-year healthcare costs. NMB was then compared across 
quintiles of adolescent peer status in school at Wave I.
RESULTS: Results obtained from non-parametric bootstrapping indicate that 
adolescents with higher peer status in school experience significantly better 
health and lower healthcare costs over the next 5 years. At US$50,000 per QALY, 
adolescents with 8 or more friends achieved NMB of US$214,300 (95 % CI 
212,800-215,800) over a 5-year span, in comparison to adolescents with 0-1 
friends, who attained US$209,900 (95 % CI 207,900-211,700) NMB. This difference 
translates into approximately US$4,440 (95 % CI 2,036-6,825) per socially 
disengaged adolescent in additional health costs and/or reduced QALYs over 
5 years.
CONCLUSION: The study calls for randomized controlled trials targeting 
adolescent peer group structures in schools as a means to promote better health 
and lower healthcare costs in adulthood.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-014-0084-y
PMCID: PMC3972808
PMID: 24531987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Diabetes Metab Res Rev. 2014 Mar;30 Suppl 1:41-7. doi: 10.1002/dmrr.2517.

Benefits of caloric restriction for cardiometabolic health, including type 2 
diabetes mellitus risk.

Soare A(1), Weiss EP, Pozzilli P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics and Nutritional Sciences, Department of Medicine, 
Washington University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO, USA; Department of 
Endocrinology and Diabetes, University Campus Bio-Medico, Rome, Italy.

In the United States, life expectancy has markedly increased during the past 
century, and population ageing is expected to double within the next 25 years. 
The process of ageing in a population is associated with the development of 
chronic diseases, such as type 2 diabetes mellitus, that can be prevented, and 
even reversed, with the implementation of healthy lifestyle interventions. The 
evidence to date, consolidated by the numerous epidemiological studies and 
clinical trials conducted, suggests that caloric restriction is an effective 
nutritional intervention for preventing most of these age-related conditions. At 
a metabolic level, caloric restriction with adequate nutrition has been shown to 
improve insulin sensitivity, reduce fasting glucose and insulin concentration 
and prevent obesity, type 2 diabetes, hypertension and chronic inflammation. The 
purpose of this article is to review current knowledge of the metabolic and 
clinical implications of caloric restriction with adequate nutrition for the 
prevention of type 2 diabetes and cardiovascular disease.

Copyright © 2013 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/dmrr.2517
PMID: 24532291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2014 Apr;172(7):3402-13. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-014-0779-4. Epub 2014 Feb 15.

Control of spoilage fungi by protective lactic acid bacteria displaying 
probiotic properties.

Varsha KK(1), Priya S, Devendra L, Nampoothiri KM.

Author information:
(1)Biotechnology Division, National Institute for Interdisciplinary Science and 
Technology (NIIST), CSIR, Trivandrum, 695 019, Kerala, India.

Thirty-six lactic acid bacteria belong to Lactococcus, Lactobacillus, 
Enterococcus, and Pediococcus were isolated, and the spectrum of antifungal 
activity was verified against Fusarium oxysporum (KACC 42109), Aspergillus niger 
(KACC 42589), Fusarium moniliforme (KACC 08141), Penicillium chrysogenum (NII 
08137), and the yeast Candida albicans (MTCC 3017). Three isolates, identified 
as Pediococcus pentosaceus (TG2), Lactobacillus casei (DY2), and Lactococcus 
(BSN) were selected further, and their antifungal compounds were identified by 
ESI-MS and HPLC analysis as a range of carboxylic acids along with some 
unidentified, higher molecular weight compounds. An attempt to check out the 
shelf life extension of wheat bread without fungal spoilage was performed by 
fermenting the dough with the Lactococcus isolate. Apart from growth in low pH 
and tolerance to bile salts, probiotic potential of these three isolates was 
further substantiated by in vitro screening methods that include transit 
tolerance to the conditions in the upper human gastrointestinal tract and 
bacterial adhesion capacity to human intestinal cell lines.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-014-0779-4
PMID: 24532445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Ann Bot. 2014 Apr;113(5):789-97. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcu002. Epub 2014 Feb 15.

Fibre cables in the lacunae of Typha leaves contribute to a tensegrity 
structure.

Witztum A(1), Wayne R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer Sheva, 
Israel.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Cables composed of long, non-lignified fibre cells enclosed 
in a cover of much shorter thin-walled, crystal-containing cells traverse the 
air chambers (lacunae) in leaves of the taller species of Typha. The 
non-lignified fibre cables are anchored in diaphragms composed of stellate cells 
of aerenchyma tissue that segment the long air chambers into smaller 
compartments. Although the fibre cables are easily observed and can be pulled 
free from the porous-to-air diaphragms, their structure and function have been 
ignored or misinterpreted.
METHODS: Leaves of various species of Typha were dissected and fibre cables were 
pulled free and observed with a microscope using bright-field and polarizing 
optics. Maximal tensile strength of freshly removed cables was measured by 
hanging weights from fibre cables, and Instron analysis was used to produce 
curves of load versus extension until cables broke.
KEY RESULTS AND CONCLUSIONS: Polarized light microscopy revealed that the 
cellulose microfibrils that make up the walls of the cable fibres are oriented 
parallel to the long axis of the fibres. This orientation ensures that the fibre 
cables are mechanically stiff and strong under tension. Accordingly, the 
measured stiffness and tensile strength of the fibre cables were in the 
gigapascal range. In combination with the dorsal and ventral leaf surfaces and 
partitions that contain lignified fibre bundles and vascular strands that are 
strong in compression, the very fine fibre cables that are strong under tension 
form a tensegrity structure. The tensegrity structure creates multiple load 
paths through which stresses are redistributed throughout the 1-3 m tall upright 
leaves of Typha angustifolia, T. latifolia, T. × glauca, T. domingensis and T. 
shuttleworthii. The length of the fibre cables relative to the length of the 
leaf blades is reduced in the last-formed leaves of flowering individuals. Fibre 
cables are absent in the shorter leaves of Typha minima and, if present, only 
extend for a few centimetres from the sheath into the leaf blade of Typha 
laxmannii. The advantage of the structure of the Typha leaf blade, which enables 
stiffness to give way to flexibility under windy conditions, is discussed for 
both vegetative and flowering plants.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcu002
PMCID: PMC3962244
PMID: 24532647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. Case Rep Nephrol. 2011;2011:476038. doi: 10.1155/2011/476038. Epub 2011 Dec
19.

Noncompliance with medical regimen in haemodialysis treatment: a case study.

Theofilou P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Panteion University, Eratous 12, 14568, Athens, 
Greece.

Patients undergoing haemodialysis treatment have a high burden of disease 
(particularly cardiovascular comorbidities) affecting their quality of life and 
dramatically shortening life expectancy. Effective chronic kidney disease (CKD) 
control requires regular preventive medication and a response to that 
medication. Poor receptiveness to CKD medication can be related to individual 
variability in the dose needed to achieve a response, as well as to low-adherent 
behaviour in relation to the CKD medication regimen. Some patients, though not 
many, according to studies' findings, abuse the medical regimen as a result of 
suicidal tendencies. The present case gave us the opportunity to consider the 
causes and clinical findings and review the specific psychological interventions 
for patients with CKD.

DOI: 10.1155/2011/476038
PMCID: PMC3914123
PMID: 24533192


364. Haemophilia. 2014 Mar;20(2):276-81. doi: 10.1111/hae.12285. Epub 2013 Oct
28.

Long-term outcome of multiple joint procedures in haemophilia.

de Kleijn P(1), Sluiter D, Vogely HCh, Lindeman E, Fischer K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Nursing Science and Sports, University Medical 
Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands; Van Creveldkliniek, Department of 
Haematology, University Medical Center Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.

In elderly people with haemophilia (PWH), surgery of more than one joint of the 
lower extremities might be needed. Multiple joint procedures (MJP) were 
introduced in 1995, defined as any combination of Total Knee or Total Hip 
Arthroplasty or Ankle Arthrodesis during one in-hospital stay. The expectation 
is that by means of such procedures this specific population is able to 
physically function better for an extended period of time. Thus, they will 
participate in their society in an optimal way. In this study, we tried to 
describe an outcome after MJP, including pre- and post-operative pain and range 
of motion (ROM), and recommend measurement tools. 22 of 37 PWH who underwent MJP 
between 1995 and 2012 were available for assessment. Pain (WFH score) and range 
of motion were compared pre and postoperatively. Current outcome was described 
by VAS per joint, nocturnal and overall pain, MACTAR, Hemophilia Activity List, 
SF36, and EQ-5D. Mean age at surgery was 50, 3 years (SD 8, 3); mean follow-up 
12 years (1-18 years). Pain (VAS) decreased post-surgery (Median 1 - 1, 5), but 
moderate pain remained. Extension of knees slightly increased, but both knee 
flexion and ankle plantar and dorsal flexion decreased. PWH reported the ability 
to stand longer but also pointed at specific problems, e.g. riding a bike 
(MACTAR). The HAL showed limited activities (functional domains), especially in 
the 'complex lower extremity' (22, 8/100). The SF36 and EQ-5D showed a mix of 
physical problems of our population, while experiencing moderate pain and 
reasonable physical functioning. This led us to the conclusion that adequate 
follow-up is needed: ROM of all joints, VAS of all joints as well as nocturnal 
and overall pain, HAL, SF36 and EQ5D. Performance based activities and 
participation need further attention.

© 2013 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12285
PMID: 24533953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. J Epidemiol Glob Health. 2014 Mar;4(1):61-72. doi:
10.1016/j.jegh.2013.10.003.  Epub 2013 Dec 14.

Terrorism, civil war and related violence and substance use disorder morbidity 
and mortality: a global analysis.

Kerridge BT(1), Khan MR(2), Rehm J(3), Sapkota A(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, 
University of Maryland, College Park, College Park, MD 20740, USA. Electronic 
address: bkerridg@umd.edu.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, College of Public Health Professions, School of 
Medicine, University of Florida Health Services Center, University of Florida, 
Gainesville, FL 32610, USA.
(3)Centre for Addiction and Mental Health, 33 Russell Street, Toronto, Ontario 
M5S 2S1, Canada.
(4)Maryland Institute for Applied Environmental Health, Department of 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Maryland, 
College Park, College Park, MD 20742, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The purpose of this study is to examine associations between 
deaths owing to terrorism, civil war, and one-sided violence from 1994-2000 and 
substance use disorder disability-adjusted life years (DALYs).
METHODS: The relationship between terrorism, and related violence and substance 
use disorder morbidity and mortality among World Health Organization Member 
States in 2002, controlling for adult per capita alcohol consumption, illicit 
drug use, and economic variables at baseline in 1994.
RESULTS: Deaths as a result of terrorism and related violence were related to 
substance use disorder DALYs: a 1.0% increase in deaths as a result of 
terrorism, war and one-sided violence was associated with an increase of between 
0.10% and 0.12% in alcohol and drug use disorder DALYs. Associations were 
greater among males and 15-44 year-old.
CONCLUSION: Terrorism, war and one-sided violence may influence morbidity and 
mortality attributable to substance use disorders in the longer-term suggests 
that more attention to be given to rapid assessment and treatment of substance 
use disorders in conflict-affected populations with due consideration of gender 
and age differences that may impact treatment outcomes in these settings. 
Priorities should be established to rebuild substance abuse treatment 
infrastructures and treat the many physical and mental comorbid disorders.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jegh.2013.10.003
PMCID: PMC7320406
PMID: 24534337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Vaccine. 2014 Mar 26;32(15):1645-53. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.01.058.
Epub  2014 Feb 15.

Cost-effectiveness of vaccination against herpes zoster and postherpetic 
neuralgia: a critical review.

Kawai K(1), Preaud E(2), Baron-Papillon F(2), Largeron N(2), Acosta CJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Global Health Outcomes, Merck & Co., Inc., West Point, PA, USA. Electronic 
address: kkawai8@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Market Access and Economics, Sanofi Pasteur MSD, France.
(3)Global Health Outcomes, Merck & Co., Inc., West Point, PA, USA.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to systematically review 
cost-effectiveness studies of vaccination against herpes zoster (HZ) and 
postherpetic neuralgia (PHN).
METHODS: We searched MEDLINE and EMBASE databases for eligible studies published 
prior to November 2013. We extracted information regarding model structure, 
model input parameters, and study results. We compared the results across 
studies by projecting the health and economic impacts of vaccinating one million 
adults over their lifetimes.
RESULTS: We identified 15 cost-effectiveness studies performed in North America 
and Europe. Results ranged from approximately US$10,000 to more than US$100,000 
per quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained. Most studies in Europe concluded 
that zoster vaccination is likely to be cost-effective. Differences in results 
among studies are largely due to differing assumptions regarding duration of 
vaccine protection and a loss in quality of life associated with HZ and to a 
larger extent, PHN. Moreover, vaccine efficacy against PHN, age at vaccination, 
and vaccine cost strongly influenced the results in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: Most studies included in this review shows that vaccination against 
HZ is likely to be cost-effective. Future research addressing key model 
parameters and cost-effectiveness studies in other parts of the world are 
needed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.01.058
PMID: 24534737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Urologe A. 2014 Feb;53(2):201-5. doi: 10.1007/s00120-013-3383-2.

[Aspects of sexuality in adolescents with spinal bifida].

[Article in German]

Rehme C(1), Rübben I.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie, Sektion Kinderurologie und Neurourologie, 
Universitätsklinikum Essen, Hufelandstraße 55, 45122, Essen, Deutschland, 
christian.rehme@uk-essen.de.

In the last few decades, the life expectancy of patients with meningomyelocele 
has increased through improved medical care. Problems associated with adulthood 
like sexuality, friendship, and fertility are now more important for these young 
persons. Physical and cognitive impairment can alter the complex process of 
sexual maturation, but nevertheless patients of today are well-informed and show 
a strong interest in sexual fulfillment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-013-3383-2
PMID: 24535203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2014 Feb 18;46(1):144-8.

[Efficacy of albumin-bound paclitaxel in advanced gastric cancer patients].

[Article in Chinese]

Gong JF(1), Lu M, Li J, Li Y, Zhou J, Lu ZH, Wang XC, Li J, Zhang XT, Shen L.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Translational Research, Ministry of 
Education; Department of Gastrointestinal Oncology, Peking University Cancer 
Hospital & Institute, Beijing 100142, China.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the safety and efficacy of albumin-bound paclitaxel in 
patients with advanced gastric cancer (AGC).
METHODS: The patients with histopathologic or cytopathologic diagnosed advanced 
gastric cancer (AGC), Karnofsky performance status ≥ 60, and life expectancy >12 
weeks, and with adequate organ functions of the bone marrow, liver, kidney and 
heart were recuited in our study. albumin-bound paclitaxel was administered 
alone or combined with capecitabine, TS-1, trastuzumab or cetuxizumb. The total 
doses of albumin-bound paclitaxel were 200-400 mg (130-260 mg/m(2)), divided on 
days 1, 8 or days 1,8, and 15, given intravenously during 30 minutes of a 21-day 
cycle. Tumor response was evaluated according to the Response Evaluation 
Criteria in Solid Tumors (RECIST) 1.0. The adverse events (AE) were graded 
according to National Cancer Institute-Common Toxicity Criteria (NCI-CTC) 3.0 
version.
RESULTS: From July 2009 to Octobor 2012, the total of 25 patients were treated 
and completed 65 cycles of chemotherapy (median: 2 cycles, and range: 0.5-7). 
The median age was 57 years (range: 38-79). The majority of the patients were 
with non-gastroesophageal junction cancers and had metastasic disease with lymph 
nodes and peritoneum. Eleven patients were chemotherapy naive and the others had 
accepted previous systemic therapy for advanced disease. 16 patients were 
evaluable for clinical response. No complete response was observed and partial 
response (PR) was achieved in 5 patients. Five patients had stable disease and 6 
patients progressed. Among the chemotherapy naive patients, 8 patients were 
evaluable for response, 3 patients had partial response (37.5%) and 1 patient 
had stable disease (tumor shrink). The clinical response rate was 50%. Time to 
treatment failure (TTF)was 3.7 months(95% CI 2.32-5.08) and time to death 
(TTD)was 7.9 months (95% CI 5.17-10.63). No statistical differences in TTF and 
TTD were observed between the untreated and the retreated patients or the 
monotherapy and the combination therapy groups. All the patients were suitable 
for safety assessment. Most toxicities were mild with grades 1/2. Hematologic 
AEs were more common with leucopenia and neutropenia. Meanwhile, 
nausea/vomiting, fatigue, peripheral neuropathy were the most common 
non-hematologic AEs. No allergic reaction or treatment-related deaths were 
recorded.
CONCLUSION: AGC patients could benefit from albumin-bound paclitaxel with lower 
dose level than breast cancer patients. Additional phase I/II studies of 
albumin-bound paclitaxel in gastric cancer are warranted.

PMID: 24535367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Reconstr Microsurg. 2014 Jun;30(5):343-8. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1363774.
Epub  2014 Feb 17.

Double fascicular nerve transfer for elbow flexion and extension.

Yang PR(1), Brunworth LS(1), Gray RR(1), Cardoso R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University of Miami Miller School of Medicine, 
Miami, Florida.

Traumatic brachial plexus injuries are life changing, often leaving affected 
individuals with severe functional deficits. Recent advances in nerve transfers 
have allowed surgeons to improve elbow flexion, shoulder abduction, and 
prehension of the hand in some patients. We hypothesize that in a patient who 
lacks both biceps and triceps function, a double fascicular transfer may be the 
key to restore elbow flexion and extension. In three cadaver upper limbs, we 
transferred the expendable motor fascicle of the ulnar nerve to the biceps 
branch of the musculocutaneous nerve, and the expendable motor fascicle of the 
median nerve to the triceps (ulnar collateral) branch of the radial nerve. We 
evaluated the feasibility of this double nerve transfer via a medial approach, 
and elucidated the anatomy. The transfers were easily performed and were 
tension-free throughout full range of motion at the elbow. The triceps branch of 
the radial nerve that we utilized has a length of approximately 4.9 cm, and is 
best found between 3.5 and 6 cm from the anterior axillary line. We consistently 
identified a relatively avascular plane in the region between 7.5 and 11 cm from 
the anterior axillary line, which corresponds with the recipient sites of the 
medial head of the triceps. The distance between the triceps branch to the 
median nerve was an average of 2.5 cm. Transfer of expendable motor fascicles 
from the ulnar and median nerves to the biceps and triceps nerve branches can be 
successfully and consistently performed through a medial approach in a cadaver.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1363774
PMID: 24535677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Whats New. 1955;189:12-3.

LONGEVITY of the weaker sex.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 24543694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. Whats New. 1957 Summer;(200):7-9.

LONGER live the married.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 24544511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Proj Rep USAF Sch Aviat Med. 1960 Nov;61(8):1-12.

Ionizing radiation and aging.

UPTON AC.

PMID: 24545949 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. Prog Nucl Energy 6 Biol Sci. 1959;2:199-209.

The influence of strontium-90 upon life span and neoplasms of mice.

FINKEL MP, BISKIS BO, SCRIBNER GM.

PMID: 24546375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. Rev Sci Tech. 2013 Aug;32(2):425-31, 417-24.

Veterinary education in the area of food safety (including animal health, food 
pathogens and surveillance of foodborne diseases).

[Article in English, Spanish]

Vidal SM(1), Fajardo PI(2), González CG(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine, Universidad Mayor, Camino La Pirámide N 5750, 
Huechuraba, Santiago, Chile. macarena.vidal@umayor.cl
(2)School of Veterinary Medicine, Universidad Mayor, Camino La Pirámide N 5750, 
Huechuraba, Santiago, Chile.

The animal foodstuffs industry has changed in recent decades as a result of 
factors such as: human population growth and longer life expectancy, increasing 
urbanisation and migration, emerging zoonotic infectious diseases and foodborne 
diseases (FBDs), food security problems, technological advances in animal 
production systems, globalisation of trade and environmental changes. The 
Millennium Development Goals and the 'One Health' paradigm provide global 
guidelines on efficiently addressing the issues of consumer product safety, food 
security and risks associated with zoonoses. Professionals involved in the 
supply chain must therefore play an active role, based on knowledge and skills 
that meet current market requirements. Accordingly, it is necessary for the 
veterinary medicine curriculum, both undergraduate and postgraduate, to 
incorporate these skills. This article analyses the approach that veterinary 
education should adopt in relation to food safety, with an emphasis on animal 
health, food pathogens and FBD surveillance.

PMID: 24547647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. J Emerg Med. 2014 May;46(5):617-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jemermed.2013.11.092. Epub
 2014 Feb 16.

An unusual and rare cause of acute airway obstruction in the elderly: 
Forestier's disease.

Dagher WI(1), Nasr VG(2), Patel AK(1), Flis DW(1), Wein RO(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Tufts Medical Center, 
Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Diffuse idiopathic skeletal hyperostosis (DISH), also known as 
Forestier's disease, is an ossifying disease of unknown etiology affecting 
mainly elderly men. It is characterized by hypertrophic anterior vertebral 
osteophytes with ossification of the spinal anterior longitudinal ligament. 
Hypertrophic osteophytes can encroach on the aerodigestive tract, leading to 
significant swallowing and respiratory symptoms.
OBJECTIVE: Acute stridor and respiratory compromise requiring a surgical airway 
have rarely been reported in patients with DISH. This entity, although rare, 
should be in the differential diagnosis of acute airway obstruction, 
particularly in the elderly.
CASE REPORT: We describe a case of a 91-year-old patient who was transferred to 
the Emergency Department at Tufts Medical Center with acute stridor. A computed 
