reveal a difference. Of the 33 sessions with females, only 15 were successful 
(45%), while for the 18 sessions with males, 14 were successful (78%), resulting 
in a χ(2) statistic of 4.96, P = .026. However, given all of the χ(2) tests 
performed in this section, the results must be interpreted with caution because 
of multiple testing. Results indicate belief in whether the AK test will work 
was not significantly related to whether it actually did work. A χ(2) test of 
the relationship between time perception and correct vial choice showed no 
significant relationships. The χ(2) statistic for the relationship using the 
hand dynamometer data was 0.927, P = .629.
CONCLUSION: The data in this study, particularly when seen in the larger context 
of a review of the literature from the AK field itself by Klinkoski and Leboeuf 
(1990), which considered 50 papers published between 1981 and 1987 by the 
International College of Applied Kinesiology, and the survey by Hall, Lewith, 
Brien, and Little (2008), using standard evaluation criteria [quality assessment 
tool for studies of diagnostic accuracy included in systematic reviews (QUADAS), 
Standards for Reporting of Diagnostic Studies (STARD), JADAD, and Consolidated 
Standards of Reporting Trials (CONSORT)], for research methodology, as well as 
six prior non-clinical studies by Radin (1984), Quintanar and Hill (1988), Braud 
(1989), Arnett et al. (1999), Ludtke (2001), and Kendler and Keating (2003), all 
together suggest the following: The research published by the Applied 
Kinesiology field itself is not to be relied upon, and in the experimental 
studies that do meet accepted standards of science, Applied Kinesiology has not 
demonstrated that it is a useful or reliable diagnostic tool upon which health 
decisions can be based.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.explore.2013.12.002
PMID: 24607076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. Perspect Public Health. 2015 Mar;135(2):92-101. doi:
10.1177/1757913914522785.  Epub 2014 Mar 7.

Future initiatives to reduce lung cancer incidence in the United Kingdom: 
smoking cessation, radon remediation and the impact of social change.

Denman AR(1), Rogers S(2), Timson K(2), Phillips PS(3), Crockett RG(3), 
Groves-Kirkby CJ(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Science and Technology, The University of Northampton, UK 
tony.denman@northampton.ac.uk.
(2)Public Health Department, Northamptonshire County Council, Northampton, UK.
(3)School of Science and Technology, The University of Northampton, Northampton, 
UK.

AIMS: Smoking and radon cause lung cancer, with smoking being the more 
significant risk factor. Although programmes to identify UK houses with raised 
radon levels and to encourage remedial action started in 1990, uptake has been 
limited and those most at risk, smokers and young families, are not being 
reached. The risks from smoking and radon are multiplicative. Public health 
campaigns have reduced smoking prevalence significantly. Since most 
radon-induced lung cancers occur in smokers, reducing the number of smokers will 
reduce the number of radon-induced lung cancers. This article considers the 
impact of reducing smoking prevalence on the effectiveness of radon remediation 
programmes, combining this with demographic trends and regional variations to 
assess implications for future public health.
METHODS: Results on cost-effectiveness of smoking cessation and radon 
remediation programmes were combined with government figures for smoking 
prevalence to estimate the number of cancers averted and the cost-effectiveness 
of such programmes, taking into account demographic changes, including 
increasing life expectancy. Regional variations in smoking prevalence and 
smoking cessation programmes were reviewed, comparing these to the geographic 
variation of radon.
RESULTS: The continuing impact of smoking cessation programmes in reducing 
smoking prevalence will reduce the number of radon-induced lung cancers, but 
with a lag. Smoking cessation programmes are more cost-effective than radon 
remediation programmes, presenting an additional opportunity to reduce radon 
risk to smokers. Regional data show no correlation between smoking prevalence 
and radon levels.
CONCLUSIONS: Reduced smoking prevalence reduces the effectiveness of radon 
remediation programmes. This, coupled with limited uptake of radon remediation, 
suggests that radon remediation programmes should be targeted, and that an 
integrated public health policy for smoking and radon is appropriate. Lack of 
correlation between smoking prevalence and radon suggests that local assessment 
of relative priorities for public health strategies, such as the 'Total Place' 
initiative, is appropriate.

© Royal Society for Public Health 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1757913914522785
PMID: 24607815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


542. Scand J Public Health. 2014 Jun;42(4):393-9. doi: 10.1177/1403494814525004.
Epub  2014 Mar 7.

Bullying, cyberbullying, and mental health in young people.

Landstedt E(1), Persson S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, Mid Sweden University, Sundsvall, Sweden 
evelina.landstedt@miun.se.
(2)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Gothenburg, 
Gothenburg, Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the factors associated with exposure to in-real-life 
(IRL) bullying, cyberbullying, and both IRL and cyberbullying and to explore the 
relationship between these types of bullying and mental health among 
13-16-year-old Swedish boys and girls.
METHODS: Data was derived from a cross-sectional web-based study of 
13-16-year-old students in northern Sweden (n=1214, response rate 81.9%).
RESULTS: The combination of IRL- and cyberbullying was the most common type of 
bullying. A non-supportive school environment and poor body image were related 
to exposure to bullying for both genders but the relationship was more distinct 
in girls. All types of bullying were associated with depressive symptoms in both 
boys and girls and all forms of bullying increased the likelihood of 
psychosomatic problems in girls.
CONCLUSIONS: Cyberbullying can be seen as an extension of IRL bullying. A 
combination of IRL- and cyberbullying seems to be particularly negative for 
mental health. Interventions should focus on improved school environment and 
body image as well as anti-violence programmes. Gender aspects of bullying need 
to be acknowledged.

© 2014 the Nordic Societies of Public Health.

DOI: 10.1177/1403494814525004
PMID: 24608094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2015 Jan;272(1):175-83. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-014-2939-0. Epub 2014 Mar 8.

Outcome of transoral robotic surgery for stage I-II oropharyngeal cancer.

van Loon JW(1), Smeele LE, Hilgers FJ, van den Brekel MW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Head and Neck Oncology and Surgery, The Netherlands Cancer 
Institute, Antoni van Leeuwenhoek Hospital, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Traditionally T1-2N0 oropharyngeal carcinoma is treated with a single treatment 
modality, being either radiotherapy or surgery. Currently, minimally invasive 
surgery, such as transoral robotic surgery (TORS), is gaining popularity. The 
aim of this study is to assess whether T1-2N0 oropharyngeal cancer can be safely 
and effectively resected with TORS, and to determine the oncologic and 
functional outcomes. In addition, the long-term quality-of-life outcomes are 
reported. Between 2007 and 2012, 18 patients with early stage oropharyngeal 
cancers underwent transoral resection with the da Vinci robot system in the 
Netherlands Cancer Institute. All surviving patients filled out the self-report 
assessments of quality-of-life questionnaires. Median robot-assisted operating 
time was 115 min (range 43-186 min), while median estimated blood loss was 5 ml 
(range 0-125 ml). In three cases the exposure was insufficient to obtain clear 
tumor margins because of tumor extension and local anatomy. Fourteen patients 
had clear surgical margins. Four patients received adjuvant radiotherapy. Nine 
patients underwent an elective unilateral neck dissection. The oropharyngeal 
cancer recurred in two patients. Regarding the quality of life, patients who 
needed postoperative radiotherapy had a worse outcome and patients treated with 
transoral resection only did quite well. TORS seems to be an oncologically safe 
surgical treatment for early stage T1-2N0 oropharyngeal cancer based on this 
relatively small group of patients. Selecting patients in whom sufficient 
surgical exposure can be obtained, should be performed with the greatest care to 
avoid the need for adjuvant radiotherapy. Comparing radiotherapy and TORS or CO2 
laser should be the next step in finding the optimal treatment for patients with 
T1-2N0 oropharyngeal carcinoma.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-014-2939-0
PMID: 24609641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Bioessays. 2014 May;36(5):439-50. doi: 10.1002/bies.201300165. Epub 2014 Mar
7.

Why do the well-fed appear to die young? A new evolutionary hypothesis for the 
effect of dietary restriction on lifespan.

Adler MI(1), Bonduriansky R.

Author information:
(1)University of New South Wales, Evolution and Ecology Research Centre and 
School of BEES, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

Comment in
    Bioessays. 2014 May;36(5):436.

Dietary restriction (DR) famously extends lifespan and reduces fecundity across 
a diverse range of species. A prominent hypothesis suggests that these 
life-history responses evolved as a survival-enhancing strategy whereby 
resources are redirected from reproduction to somatic maintenance, enabling 
organisms to weather periods of resource scarcity. We argue that this hypothesis 
is inconsistent with recent evidence and at odds with the ecology of natural 
populations. We consider a wealth of molecular, medical, and evolutionary 
research, and conclude that the lifespan extension effect of DR is likely to be 
a laboratory artifact: in contrast with captivity, most animals living in 
natural environments may fail to achieve lifespan extension under DR. What, 
then, is the evolutionary significance of the suite of responses that extend 
lifespan in the laboratory? We suggest that these responses represent a highly 
conserved nutrient recycling mechanism that enables organisms to maximize 
immediate reproductive output under conditions of resource scarcity.

© 2014 WILEY Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/bies.201300165
PMID: 24609969 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Am J Cardiovasc Drugs. 2014 Jun;14(3):209-16. doi:
10.1007/s40256-014-0066-3.

Cost effectiveness of eplerenone in patients with chronic heart failure.

Ademi Z(1), Pasupathi K, Krum H, Liew D.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine (Royal Melbourne Hospital), Melbourne EpiCentre, 
University of Melbourne, 7 East, Main Building, Grattan Street, Parkville, VIC, 
3050, Australia, zademi@unimelb.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Chronic heart failure (CHF) remains an important cause of morbidity 
and mortality worldwide. Currently, there are no cost-effectiveness studies of 
eplerenone use in patients with New York Heart Association (NYHA) class II CHF.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to evaluate the cost effectiveness of eplerenone compared 
with placebo in patients with chronic systolic heart failure and NYHA class II 
symptoms.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A 10-year Markov model with yearly cycles was constructed 
to evaluate the cost effectiveness of eplerenone compared with placebo, based on 
data from the EMPHASIS-HF (Eplerenone in Mild Patients Hospitalization And 
Survival Study in Heart Failure) study. The model classified subjects into two 
health states: 'Alive with CHF' and 'Dead'. Information about the cost of 
disease was derived from Australian Refined Diagnosis-Related Groups (AR-DRG) 
data. The cost of eplerenone was taken from the Australian Pharmaceutical 
Benefit Scheme. Utility data were derived from published sources, and a 5 % 
annual discount rate was applied to future costs and benefits. Over 10 years, 
and compared with placebo, the model predicted that eplerenone would lead to a 
saving of 0.5 life-years (discounted) and 0.4 quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) per person. The net cost was (in Australian dollars [$A]) $A6,117 
(discounted) per person. These equated to incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
of $A12,024 per life-year saved and $A16,700 per QALY saved. Sensitivity 
analyses indicated that these results were robust.
CONCLUSION: Eplerenone may represent a cost-effective strategy for preventing 
morbidity and mortality among patients with chronic systolic heart failure and 
NYHA class II symptoms.

DOI: 10.1007/s40256-014-0066-3
PMID: 24610254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2014 Jun;12(3):289-97. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-014-0090-0.

Modelling cost effectiveness in neovascular age-related macular degeneration: 
the impact of using contrast sensitivity vs. visual acuity.

Butt T(1), Patel PJ, Tufail A, Rubin GS.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Ophthalmology, University College London, 11-43 Bath Street, 
London, EC1V 9EL, UK, thomas.butt.10@ucl.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: The cost utility of treatments of age-related macular degeneration 
(AMD) is commonly assessed using health state transition models defined by 
levels of visual acuity. However, there is evidence that another measure of 
visual function, contrast sensitivity, may be better associated with utility 
than visual acuity. This paper investigates the difference in cost effectiveness 
resulting from models based on visual acuity and contrast sensitivity using the 
example of bevacizumab (Avastin) for neovascular AMD. The implications of the 
choice of outcome on structural uncertainty in the model are investigated.
METHOD: Health state transition Markov models based on levels of visual acuity 
and contrast sensitivity are used to represent the costs, health utilities and 
outcomes of the Avastin for choroidal neovascular age-related macular 
degeneration (ABC) trial. Health states are associated with costs and utilities 
based on literature values. Treatment outcomes from the ABC trial are used to 
predict transitions between states in both models. Total costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) are calculated for a cohort of patients 
treated over a defined number of model cycles.
RESULTS: Over a 5-year time horizon, a contrast sensitivity model predicts a 
statistically significant (p < 0.05) 25% greater QALY gain than the visual 
acuity model based on 10,000 Monte Carlo simulations. Bevacizumab is more 
effective and less costly than the comparator in the contrast sensitivity model 
and the visual acuity model.
CONCLUSION: There is considerable structural uncertainty associated with the 
choice of outcome for modelling the cost effectiveness of AMD treatments. 
Bevacizumab has a higher incremental QALY gain and more favourable incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio when cost effectiveness is assessed using contrast 
sensitivity outcomes compared with using visual acuity outcomes. Previous 
cost-effectiveness analyses may have underestimated the cost effectiveness of 
anti-vascular endothelial growth factor (anti-VEGF) therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-014-0090-0
PMCID: PMC4026666
PMID: 24610632 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


547. J Med Econ. 2014 May;17(5):365-75. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2014.903256. Epub
2014  Mar 25.

Is transcatheter aortic valve implantation (TAVI) a cost-effective treatment in 
patients who are ineligible for surgical aortic valve replacement? A systematic 
review of economic evaluations.

Eaton J(1), Mealing S, Thompson J, Moat N, Kappetein P, Piazza N, Busca R, 
Osnabrugge R.

Author information:
(1)Oxford Outcomes Ltd , Oxford , UK.

OBJECTIVES: Health Technology Assessment (HTA) agencies often undertake a review 
of economic evaluations of an intervention during an appraisal in order to 
identify published estimates of cost-effectiveness, to elicit comparisons with 
the results of their own model, and to support local reimbursement 
decision-making. The aim of this research is to determine whether Transcatheter 
Aortic Valve Implantation (TAVI) compared to medical management (MM) is 
cost-effective in patients ineligible for surgical aortic valve replacement 
(SAVR), across different jurisdictions and country-specific evaluations.
METHODS: A systematic review of the literature from 2007-2012 was performed in 
the MEDLINE, MEDLINE in-process, EMBASE, and UK NHS EED databases according to 
standard methods, supplemented by a search of published HTA models. All 
identified publications were reviewed independently by two health economists. 
The British Medical Journal (BMJ) 35-point checklist for economic evaluations 
was used to assess study reporting. To compare results, incremental cost 
effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were converted to 2012 dollars using purchasing 
power parity (PPP) techniques.
RESULTS: Six studies were identified representing five reimbursement 
jurisdictions (England/Wales, Scotland, the US, Canada, and Belgium) and 
different modeling techniques. The identified economic evaluations represent 
different willingness-to-pay thresholds, discount rates, medical costs, and 
healthcare systems. In addition, the model structures, time horizons, and cycle 
lengths varied. When adjusting for differences in currencies, the ICERs ranged 
from $27K-$65K per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite notable differences in modeling approach, under the 
thresholds defined by using either the local threshold value or that recommended 
by the World Health Organization (WHO) threshold value, each study showed that 
TAVI was likely to be a cost-effective intervention for patients ineligible for 
SAVR.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2014.903256
PMID: 24611813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. Am J Transplant. 2014 Apr;14(4):876-85. doi: 10.1111/ajt.12643. Epub 2014
Feb  19.

Impact of HLA mismatch at first kidney transplant on lifetime with graft 
function in young recipients.

Foster BJ(1), Dahhou M, Zhang X, Platt RW, Smith JM, Hanley JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Division of Nephrology, McGill University Faculty 
of Medicine, Montreal, QC, Canada; Montreal Children's Hospital Research 
Institute, Montreal, QC, Canada; Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and 
Occupational Health, Faculty of Medicine, McGill University Faculty of Medicine, 
Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

As HLA matching has been progressively de-emphasized in the American deceased 
donor (DD) kidney allocation algorithm, concerns have been raised that poor 
matching at first transplant may lead to greater sensitization and more 
difficulty finding an acceptable donor for a second transplant should the first 
transplant fail. We compared proportion of total observed lifetime with graft 
function after first transplant, and waiting times for a second transplant 
between individuals with different levels of HLA mismatch (MM) at first 
transplant. We studied patients recorded in the United States Renal Data System 
(1988-2009) who received a first DD transplant at age ≤21 years (n = 8433), and 
the subgroup who were listed for a second DD transplant following first graft 
failure (n = 2498). Compared with recipients of 2-3 MM first grafts, 4-6 MM 
graft recipients spent 12% less of their time and 0-1 MM recipients 15% more 
time with a functioning graft after the first transplant (both p < 0.0001); 4-6 
MM recipients were significantly less likely (hazard ratio [HR] 0.87 [95% 
confidence interval 0.76, 0.98]; p = 0.03), and 0-1 MM recipients more likely 
(HR 1.26 [0.99, 1.60]; p = 0.06) to receive a second transplant after listing. 
The benefits of better HLA matching at first transplant on lifetime with graft 
function are significant, but relatively small.

© Copyright 2014 The American Society of Transplantation and the American 
Society of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.12643
PMID: 24612783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Environ Entomol. 2014 Apr;43(2):491-500. doi: 10.1603/EN13072. Epub 2014 Mar
10.

Effect of constant temperatures on the biology, life table, and thermal 
requirements of Aganaspis pelleranoi (Hymenoptera: Figitidae), a parasitoid of 
Anastrepha fraterculus (Diptera: Tephritidae).

Gonçalves RS(1), Nava DE, Andreazza F, Lisbôa H, Nunes AM, Grützmacher AD, 
Valgas RA, Maia AH, Pazianotto RA.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Fitossanidade, Universidade Federal de Pelotas, Faculdade de 
Agronomia Eliseu Maciel, 96010-900, Pelotas, Rio Grande do Sul, Brazil.

Aganaspis pelleranoi (Brèthes, 1924) (Hymenoptera: Figitidae) is a koinobiont 
endoparasitoid of larvae of species of the genus Anastrepha and of Ceratitis 
capitata. It is a candidate for use as a biological control agent, as under 
field conditions, it may reach a parasitism rate of 62%. The objective of this 
study was to determine the effect of different constant temperatures on 
biological parameters of A. pelleranoi when parasitizing the larva of Anastrepha 
fraterculus (Wiedemann, 1830) (Diptera: Tephritidae), as well as to determine 
its thermal requirements. The study was conducted in environmental chambers at 
18, 20, 22, 25, 28, and 30 ± 1°C; 70 ± 10% relative humidity; and a 12-h 
photophase. Females maintained at 18 and 20°C produced more progeny than females 
at other temperatures tested. The longevity of males and females was inversely 
proportional to temperature, ranging from 49.1 to 3.73 d for females and from 
32.1 to 3.8 d for males at temperatures of 18-30°C, respectively. The duration 
of the biological cycle (egg-to-adult) was influenced by temperature, and ranged 
from 69.1 d at 18°C to 30 d at 25°C. No preimaginal development of A. pelleranoi 
occurred at 28 and 30°C. The relationship between temperature and the 
demographic parameters of A. pelleranoi showed a linear effect over the 
temperature range of 18-25°C. The lower temperature threshold and thermal 
constant were 11.69°C and 391.70 degree days, respectively.

DOI: 10.1603/EN13072
PMID: 24612939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


550. J Vasc Surg. 2014 Jul;60(1):136-42. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2014.01.067. Epub
2014  Mar 7.

Objective measurement of lower extremity function and quality of life after 
surgical revascularization for critical lower extremity ischemia.

Landry GJ(1), Esmonde NO(2), Lewis JR(2), Azarbal AF(2), Liem TK(2), Mitchell 
EL(2), Moneta GL(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, Knight Cardiovascular Institute, Oregon Health 
& Science University, Portland, Ore. Electronic address: landryg@ohsu.edu.
(2)Division of Vascular Surgery, Knight Cardiovascular Institute, Oregon Health 
& Science University, Portland, Ore.

BACKGROUND: Outcomes of revascularization for critical limb ischemia (CLI) have 
historically been patency, limb salvage, and survival. Functional status and 
quality of life have not been well described. This study used functional and 
quality of life assessments to measure patient-centered outcomes after 
revascularization for CLI.
METHODS: The study observed 18 patients (age, 65 ± 11 years) prospectively 
before and after lower extremity bypass for CLI. Patients completed the Short 
Physical Performance Battery, which measures walking speed, leg strength, and 
balance, as well as performed a 6-minute walk, and calorie expenditure was 
measured by an accelerometer. Isometric muscle strength was assessed with the 
Muscle Function Evaluation chair (Metitur, Helsinki, Finland). Quality of life 
instruments included the 36-Item Short Form Health Survey and the Vascular 
Quality of Life questionnaire. Patients' preoperative status was compared with 
4-month postoperative status.
RESULTS: Muscle Function Evaluation chair measurements of ipsilateral leg 
strength demonstrated a significant increase in knee flexion from 64 ± 62 N to 
135 ± 133 N (P = .038) and nearly significant increase in knee extension from 
120 ± 110 N to 186 ± 85 N (P = .062) and ankle plantar flexion from 178 ± 126 N 
to 267 ± 252 N (P = .078). In the contralateral leg, knee flexion increased from 
71 ± 96 N to 149 ± 162 N (P = .028) and knee extension from 162 ± 112 N to 239 ± 
158 N (P = .036). Absolute improvements were noted in 6-minute walk distance, 
daily calorie expenditure, and individual domains and overall Short Physical 
Performance Battery scores, and upper extremity strength decreased, although 
none were significant. The Vascular Quality of Life questionnaire captured 
significant improvement in all individual domains and overall score (P < .015). 
Significant improvement was noted only for bodily pain (P = .011) on the 36-Item 
Short Form Health Survey.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite lack of statistical improvement in most functional test 
results, revascularization for CLI results in improved patient-perceived leg 
function. Significant improvements in isometric muscle strength may explain the 
measured improvement in quality of life after revascularization for CLI.

Copyright © 2014 Society for Vascular Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2014.01.067
PMCID: PMC8022890
PMID: 24613190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. J Vasc Surg. 2014 Jul;60(1):20-30. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2014.01.054. Epub 2014
Mar  7.

A clinical decision model for selecting the most appropriate therapy for 
uncomplicated chronic dissections of the descending aorta.

Hogendoorn W(1), Hunink MG(2), Schlösser FJ(3), Moll FL(4), Sumpio BE(5), Muhs 
BE(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Section of Vascular Surgery, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Conn; Department of Surgery, Section of Vascular Surgery, 
University Medical Center, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Radiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; 
Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; 
Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Mass.
(3)Department of Surgery, Section of Vascular Surgery, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Conn.
(4)Department of Surgery, Section of Vascular Surgery, University Medical 
Center, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Surgery, Section of Vascular Surgery, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Conn; Department of Radiology, Section of Interventional 
Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Conn.
(6)Department of Surgery, Section of Vascular Surgery, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Conn; Department of Radiology, Section of Interventional 
Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New Haven, Conn. Electronic 
address: bart.muhs@yale.edu.

OBJECTIVE: The optimal treatment for patients with uncomplicated chronic 
Stanford type B aortic dissections (chTBADs) is still matter of debate. The 
purpose of this study was to design a decision tool to guide the surgeon in 
determining the preferred treatment option.
METHODS: A Markov decision-analysis model compared chTBAD patients treated with 
initial open surgical repair (OSR), thoracic endovascular aortic repair (TEVAR), 
and optimal medical therapy (OMT), followed during follow-up by OSR (OMT-OSR) or 
TEVAR (OMT-TEVAR), if indicated. Procedural risks, aortic growth and rupture 
rates, outcomes, and quality of life values were derived from the best available 
evidence in the literature. A chTBAD treatment strategy decision tool was 
developed, including the four key variables of age, sex, surgical risk, and 
maximum initial aortic diameter. Primary outcome was quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs).
RESULTS: For the reference patient cohort, 55-year-old men with chTBAD with a 
maximum aortic diameter of 5.0 cm, medium risk for surgery, and a threshold for 
surgery of 6.0 cm during follow-up, OSR yielded higher QALYs, with 10.06 QALYs 
(95% credibility interval [CI], 9.52-10.56 QALYs) vs 9.92 QALYs (95% CI, 
9.23-10.58 QALYs) after TEVAR and 9.64 QALYs (95% CI, 9.38-9.88 QALYs) and 9.40 
QALYs (95% CI, 9.11-9.69 QALYs) for OMT-OSR and OMT-TEVAR. The difference 
between OSR and OMT-OSR was 0.42 QALYs (95% CI, 0.01-0.81 QALYs) and between 
TEVAR and OMT-TEVAR was 0.52 QALYs (95% CI, 0.04-0.68 QALYs). This showed that 
intervention is preferred over OMT. A change of the four variables resulted in a 
change of preferred treatment. In general, OSR was the preferred treatment in 
younger patients with a larger aortic diameter and in low-risk patients. TEVAR 
was preferred in elderly patients with large aortic diameter and if the aortic 
diameter threshold for repair decreased. OMT was the optimal therapy in 
high-risk patients, elderly patients, or in patients with small aortic 
diameters.
CONCLUSIONS: This decision-analysis model shows that there is no 
"one-size-fits-all" treatment for uncomplicated chTBADs. For the reference 
patient cohort, intervention is preferred over OMT. Age is the most important 
deciding factor, followed by initial aortic diameter. Immediate OSR is the 
preferred treatment option in younger patients with a large initial aortic 
diameter and in low-risk patients. Immediate TEVAR is preferred in elderly 
patients with a large initial aortic diameter and in patients with a lower 
threshold for OSR. OMT should be considered in high-risk patients, in patients 
with small initial aortic diameters, and in patients aged >80 years, unless 
their initial aortic diameter is >5.5 cm. However, the differences in some 
patient groups are clinically insignificant, allowing a major role for patient 
preferences and hospital-specific considerations. This clinical decision model 
may guide chTBAD treatment.

Copyright © 2014 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2014.01.054
PMID: 24613191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. Eur Neuropsychopharmacol. 2014 Jun;24(6):930-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.euroneuro.2014.02.005. Epub 2014 Feb 18.

Impact of variation in the BDNF gene on social stress sensitivity and the 
buffering impact of positive emotions: replication and extension of a 
gene-environment interaction.

van Winkel M(1), Peeters F(2), van Winkel R(3), Kenis G(2), Collip D(2), 
Geschwind N(4), Jacobs N(5), Derom C(6), Thiery E(7), van Os J(8), Myin-Germeys 
I(2), Wichers M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, South Limburg Mental Health 
Research and Teaching Network, EURON, Maastricht University, PO Box 616 (DRT 
10), Maastricht 6200 MD, The Netherlands; Riagg Maastricht, Parallelweg 45-47, 
6221 BD, Maastricht, the Netherlands. Electronic address: 
mark.vanwinkel@maastrichtuniversity.nl.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, South Limburg Mental Health 
Research and Teaching Network, EURON, Maastricht University, PO Box 616 (DRT 
10), Maastricht 6200 MD, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, South Limburg Mental Health 
Research and Teaching Network, EURON, Maastricht University, PO Box 616 (DRT 
10), Maastricht 6200 MD, The Netherlands; University Psychiatric Centre, 
Catholic University Leuven, Kortenberg, Belgium.
(4)Clinical Psychological Science, Maastricht University, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, South Limburg Mental Health 
Research and Teaching Network, EURON, Maastricht University, PO Box 616 (DRT 
10), Maastricht 6200 MD, The Netherlands; Faculty of Psychology, Open University 
of the Netherlands, Heerlen, the Netherlands.
(6)Centre of Human Genetics, University Hospitals Leuven, Department of Human 
Genetics, KU Leuven, Belgium.
(7)Dept of Neurology, Ghent University Hospital, De Pintelaan 185, 9000 Ghent, 
Belgium.
(8)Department of Psychiatry and Neuropsychology, South Limburg Mental Health 
Research and Teaching Network, EURON, Maastricht University, PO Box 616 (DRT 
10), Maastricht 6200 MD, The Netherlands; King׳s College London, King׳s Health 
Partners, Department of Psychosis Studies, Institute of Psychiatry, De Crespigny 
Park, London SE5 8AF, UK.

A previous study reported that social stress sensitivity is moderated by the 
brain-derived-neurotrophic-factor(Val66Met) (BDNF rs6265) genotype. 
Additionally, positive emotions partially neutralize this moderating effect. The 
current study aimed to: (i) replicate in a new independent sample of subjects 
with residual depressive symptoms the moderating effect of BDNF(Val66Met) 
genotype on social stress sensitivity, (ii) replicate the neutralizing impact of 
positive emotions, (iii) extend these analyses to other variations in the BDNF 
gene in the new independent sample and the original sample of non-depressed 
individuals. Previous findings were replicated in an experience sampling method 
(ESM) study. Negative Affect (NA) responses to social stress were stronger in 
"Val/Met" carriers of BDNF(Val66Met) compared to "Val/Val" carriers. Positive 
emotions neutralized the moderating effect of BDNF(Val66Met) genotype on social 
stress sensitivity in a dose-response fashion. Finally, two of four additional 
BDNF SNPs (rs11030101, rs2049046) showed similar moderating effects on social 
stress-sensitivity across both samples. The neutralizing effect of positive 
emotions on the moderating effects of these two additional SNPs was found in one 
sample. In conclusion, ESM has important advantages in gene-environment (GxE) 
research and may attribute to more consistent findings in future GxE research. 
This study shows how the impact of BDNF genetic variation on depressive symptoms 
may be explained by its impact on subtle daily life responses to social stress. 
Further, it shows that the generation of positive affect (PA) can buffer social 
stress sensitivity and partially undo the genetic susceptibility.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. and ECNP. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.euroneuro.2014.02.005
PMID: 24613654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Oncol Res Treat. 2014;37(1-2):36-41. doi: 10.1159/000358157. Epub 2014 Jan
24.

Physical performance and psychosocial status in lung cancer patients: results 
from a pilot study.

Hummler S(1), Thomas M, Hoffmann B, Gärtner P, Zoz M, Huber G, Ulrich CM, 
Wiskemann J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Clinic for Thoracic Diseases, Heidelberg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: The aim of this study was to assess the physical performance and 
psychosocial status of lung cancer patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Patients with predominantly advanced-stage non-small cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC) and small cell lung cancer (SCLC) were recruited. Muscle 
strength was assessed via hand-held dynamometry (HHD) and endurance capacity via 
the 6-minute walk test (6MWT), and results were compared to healthy reference 
values. Psychosocial status, lung cancer-specific symptoms, and quality of life 
(QoL) outcomes were evaluated.
RESULTS: 39 patients (NSCLC n = 22, SCLC n = 17) with predominantly 
advanced-stage disease and a median age of 62 years (range 44-83 years) were 
enrolled. Compared to a healthy reference population, mean muscle strength 
values of upper (elbow flexion -28.2% (±17.5), elbow extension -12.4% (±11.1)) 
and lower (knee extension -47.6% (±19.3), hip abduction -44.9% (±14.9), hip 
flexion -13% (±24.2)) extremities, and 6MWT were lower (male/female: 434/411 m 
vs. 597/514 m). Lung cancer-specific symptoms and QoL were comparable to 
published data.
CONCLUSION: Our results indicate that lung cancer patients experience muscular 
weakness, lower endurance performance, and decreased QoL compared to a healthy 
reference population. The feasibility and benefit of a structured exercise 
intervention in this specific population need to be evaluated, in particular its 
effect on psychosocial well-being.

© 2014 S. Karger GmbH, Freiburg.

DOI: 10.1159/000358157
PMID: 24613907 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Curr Opin Hematol. 2014 May;21(3):210-4. doi: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000038.

Sickle cell disease in sub-Saharan Africa: stakes and strategies for control of 
the disease.

Diallo DA(1), Guindo A.

Author information:
(1)Centre de Recherche et de Lutte contre la Drépanocytose, Bamako, Mali.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: In the late 1990s publications on cohorts of sickle cell 
disease (SCD) patients, followed since birth, showed that the life expectancy of 
SCD patients in developed countries could approach that of those without SCD, 
when managed appropriately. Between 2005 and 2008, SCD was declared as a public 
health priority issue worldwide. In 2006, the WHO recommended that African 
states should include the fight against SCD in their health policies. 
Nevertheless, there are, as of yet, no data on effective strategies to implement 
SCD control in these countries. This review discusses the stakes and proposes 
strategies for SCD management and research in sub-Saharan Africa.
RECENT FINDINGS: This work is a review of the recent literature on the burden of 
SCD in sub-Saharan Africa; on approaches that resulted in improved survival and 
comfort for SCD patients in developed countries; and, in contrast, on the 
inadequacies of most issues relating to the fight against SCD in Africa.
SUMMARY: Multiple constraints require an organization based on a network of 
health professionals working in sickle cell referral centers with specific 
missions of research, communication, teaching, establishment of guidelines for 
diagnosis, treatment, and prevention, and the centers of competence that will 
focus primarily on the screening, diagnosis, and management of SCD patients 
favoring equity in access to care.

DOI: 10.1097/MOH.0000000000000038
PMID: 24613937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Apr;11(4):223-38. doi: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2014.31.
Epub  2014 Mar 11.

Diagnosis and management of lymphomas and other cancers in HIV-infected 
patients.

Carbone A(1), Vaccher E(2), Gloghini A(3), Pantanowitz L(4), Abayomi A(5), de 
Paoli P(6), Franceschi S(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Centro di Riferimento Oncologico Aviano (CRO), 
Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Italy.
(2)Department of Medical Oncology, Centro di Riferimento Oncologico Aviano 
(CRO), Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Italy.
(3)Department of Diagnostic Pathology and Laboratory Medicine, Fondazione IRCCS 
Istituto Nazionale dei Tumori Milano, Italy.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, USA.
(5)Department of Pathology, Division of Haematology, Tygerberg Hospital, South 
Africa.
(6)Molecular Virology and Scientific Directorate, Centro di Riferimento 
Oncologico Aviano (CRO), Istituto Nazionale Tumori, Italy.
(7)Infections and Cancer Epidemiology Group, International Agency for Research 
on Cancer, France.

Despite the introduction of highly active antiretroviral therapy or combination 
antiretroviral therapy (HAART and cART, respectively) patients infected with HIV 
might develop certain types of cancer more frequently than uninfected people. 
Lymphomas represent the most frequent malignancy among patients with HIV. Other 
cancer types that have increased in these patients include Kaposi sarcoma, 
cancer of the cervix, anus, lung and liver. In the post-HAART era, however, 
patients with HIV have experienced a significant improvement in their morbidity, 
mortality and life expectancy. This Review focuses on the different types of 
lymphomas that generally occur in patients with HIV. The combination of cART and 
antineoplastic treatment has resulted in remarkable prolongation of disease-free 
survival and overall survival among patients with HIV who develop lymphoma. 
However, the survival in these patients still lags behind that of patients with 
lymphoma who are not infected with HIV. We also provide an update of 
epidemiological data, diagnostic issues, and strategies regarding the 
most-appropriate management of patients with both HIV and lymphomas.

DOI: 10.1038/nrclinonc.2014.31
PMID: 24614140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


556. Clin Neuropharmacol. 2014 Mar-Apr;37(2):45-51. doi: 
10.1097/WNF.0000000000000018.

Benefit of additional screening for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy 
in patients with multiple sclerosis taking natalizumab: a decision analysis.

Landy DC(1), Hecht EM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of Miami Miller School of 
Medicine, Miami, FL.

OBJECTIVE: Patients with multiple sclerosis (MS) taking natalizumab are at risk 
for progressive multifocal leukoencephalopathy (PML). We sought to describe the 
outcomes of discontinuing natalizumab on the basis of PML risk and those of 
obtaining additional screening across a range of scenarios using decision tree 
models.
METHODS: Health state probabilities and values, measured as the proportion of 
quality-adjusted life years (PQALY) relative to baseline health, were based on 
literature review. Probabilities of worsening MS while continuing and 
discontinuing natalizumab were set to 0.23 and 0.44. For discontinuing therapy, 
PML risk, worsening MS value, and PML value were varied. For additional 
screening, the probability of discontinuing natalizumab without screening, PML 
risk, worsening MS value, and PML value were set to 33%, 1.1%, 0.88, and 0.09, 
respectively, with test sensitivity and specificity varying from 0.50 to 1.
RESULTS: Discontinuing natalizumab provided no benefit until PML risk reached 
2.9%, assuming an MS relapse value of 0.88 and a PML value of 0.09. Additional 
screening changed the PQALY by -0.3% to 1.5%, largely influenced by specificity. 
Assuming a sensitivity of 80% and a specificity of 99%, screening increases the 
PQALY by 1.2%.
CONCLUSIONS: The highest PML risk identified by stratification is below 2.9%, 
suggesting that continuing natalizumab outweighs PML risk for most patients on 
the basis of theoretical calculations. However, decisions based on additional 
screening with high-specificity tests, including polymerase chain reaction 
cerebrospinal fluid tests for John Cunningham virus, may provide benefit and 
should be clinically tested. Increased precision of probabilities and 
quality-of-life values are also needed to improve decision making.

DOI: 10.1097/WNF.0000000000000018
PMID: 24614671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


557. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2014 May;90(5):866-872. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.13-0419. Epub
2014  Mar 10.

Cost-effectiveness of a tuberculosis active case finding program targeting 
household and neighborhood contacts in Cambodia.

Yadav RP, Nishikiori N, Satha P, Eang MT, Lubell Y.

In many high-risk populations, access to tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis and 
treatment is limited and pockets of high prevalence persist. We estimated the 
cost-effectiveness of an extensive active case finding program in areas of 
Cambodia where TB notifications and household poverty rates are highest and 
access to care is restricted. Thirty operational health districts with high TB 
incidence and household poverty were randomized into intervention and control 
groups. In intervention operational health districts, all household and 
symptomatic neighborhood contacts of registered TB patients of the past two 
years were encouraged to attend screening at mobile centers. In control 
districts, routine passive case finding activities continued. The program 
screened more than 35,000 household and neighborhood contacts and identified 810 
bacteriologically confirmed cases. The cost-effectiveness analysis estimated 
that in these cases the reduction in mortality from 14% to 2% would result in a 
cost per daily adjusted life year averted of $330, suggesting that active case 
finding was highly cost-effective.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.13-0419
PMCID: PMC4015580
PMID: 24615134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


558. Cold Spring Harb Perspect Med. 2014 Apr 1;4(4):a015610. doi: 
10.1101/cshperspect.a015610.

Pancreas transplantation: solid organ and islet.

Mittal S(1), Johnson P, Friend P.

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Surgical Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford OX3 
9DU, United Kingdom.

Transplantation of the pancreas, either as a solid organ or as isolated islets 
of Langerhans, is indicated in a small proportion of patients with 
insulin-dependent diabetes in whom severe complications develop, particularly 
severe glycemic instability and progressive secondary complications (usually 
renal failure). The potential to reverse diabetes has to be balanced against the 
morbidity of long-term immunosuppression. For a patient with renal failure, the 
treatment of choice is often a simultaneous transplant of the pancreas and 
kidney (SPK), whereas for a patient with glycemic instability, specifically 
hypoglycemic unawareness, the choice between a solid organ and an islet 
transplant has to be individual to the patient. Results of SPK transplantation 
are comparable to other solid-organ transplants (kidney, liver, heart) and there 
is evidence of improved quality of life and life expectancy, but the results of 
solitary pancreas transplantation and islets are inferior with respect to graft 
survival. There is some evidence of benefit with respect to the progression of 
secondary diabetic complications in patients with functioning transplants for 
several years.

DOI: 10.1101/cshperspect.a015610
PMCID: PMC3968790
PMID: 24616200 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


559. J Addict Res Ther. 2013 Oct 31;4(163):1000163. doi:
10.4172/2155-6105.1000163.

Coupling Genetic Addiction Risk Score (GARS) with Electrotherapy: Fighting 
Iatrogenic Opioid Dependence.

Blum K(1), Oscar-Berman M(2), Dinubile N(3), Giordano J(4), Braverman ER(5), 
Truesdell CE(6), Barh D(7), Badgaiyan R(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, 
College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL, USA ; Department of Holistic Medicine, 
National Institute for Holistic Addiction STudies, Inc. North Miami Beach, Fl, 
USA ; Department of Clinical Neurology, PATH Foundation NY, New York, NY, USA ; 
Center for Genomics and Applied Gene Technology, Institute of Integrative Omics 
and Applied Biotechnology (IIOAB), Nonakuri, Purbe Medinpur, West Bengal, India 
; Dominion Diagnostics, LLC., North Kingstown, Rhode Island, USA ; Department of 
Addiction Research & Therapy, Malibu Beach Recovery Center, Malibu Beach 
California, USA ; Department of Nutrigenomics, IGENE LLC., Austin Texas, USA.
(2)Departments of Psychiatry and Anatomy & Neurobiology, Boston University 
School of Medicine, and Boston, VA Healthcare System, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery at the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philidelphia, Pennslyvania, USA.
(4)Department of Holistic Medicine, National Institute for Holistic Addiction 
STudies, Inc. North Miami Beach, Fl, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, McKnight Brain Institute, University of Florida, 
College of Medicine, Gainesville, FL, USA ; Department of Clinical Neurology, 
PATH Foundation NY, New York, NY, USA.
(6)Department of Clinical Neurology, PATH Foundation NY, New York, NY, USA.
(7)Center for Genomics and Applied Gene Technology, Institute of Integrative 
Omics and Applied Biotechnology (IIOAB), Nonakuri, Purbe Medinpur, West Bengal, 
India.
(8)Department of Psychiatry, University at Buffalo & Harvard University, 
Psychiatrist, WNY VAMC, Buffalo, NY, USA.

The endemic of legal opioid iatrogenic induced prescription drug abuse is of 
major world-wide concern. Understanding pain pathways and the role of 
dopaminergic tone in the neurophysiology of pain relief provides potential 
therapeutic solutions. A 2011 NIDA report indicated that approximately 8.7% of 
the entire US population above the age of 12 years has used a psychoactive drug 
within the past 30 days. It has been reported that the overall genetic 
contribution to the variance of Substance Use Disorder (SUD) was approximately 
60% but each candidate gene evaluated by GWAS was relatively small. In an 
attempt to combat this global endemic we are proposing a number of alternative 
strategies. Prevention of death due to opioid overdose and attenuation of 
prescription abuse should focus on strategies that target 1) high-dosage medical 
users; 2) persons who seek care from multiple doctors; 3) persons involved in 
"drug diversion"; 4) genetic testing for addiction liability and severity 
indices; 5) non-pharmacolgical analgesic treatments such as electrotherapy.

DOI: 10.4172/2155-6105.1000163
PMCID: PMC3946872
PMID: 24616834

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Kenneth Blum, PhD is the 
holder of a number of patents involved with genetic testing and nutrigenomics 
and is currently- Managing Partner of IGENE, LLC the exclusive worldwide 
distributors of the GARS test. He is a consultant Chief Scientific officer of 
G&G Healthcare Services LLC and Genomics Healthcare, LLC. He is on the Advisory 
Board of Dominion Diagnostics, LLC, Malibu Beach Recovery Center, Path 
Foundation and NY. He receives grants from Life Extension Foundation to Path 
Foundation. Both Dr. Blum and Dr. DiNubile are paid consultants of Electronic 
Waveform Labs Huntington, Beach, California. No other conflict of interest.


560. Lancet. 2014 Mar 8;383(9920):848-50.

Ukraine: not only a matter of geopolitics.

Mackenbach JP, Murphy A, McKee M.

PMID: 24616915 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


561. Aging Cell. 2014 Aug;13(4):769-71. doi: 10.1111/acel.12213. Epub 2014 Mar
12.

Low insulin-like growth factor-1 level predicts survival in humans with 
exceptional longevity.

Milman S(1), Atzmon G, Huffman DM, Wan J, Crandall JP, Cohen P, Barzilai N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Ave, Bronx, NY, USA; Institute for Aging Research, 
Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Ave, Bronx, NY, USA.

Attenuated growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-1 (GH/IGF-1) signaling 
is associated with extended lifespan in several animal models. However, the 
effect of diminished GH/IGF-1 activity on survival in humans has not been 
confirmed. We tested the hypothesis that IGF-1 levels in nonagenarians 
(n = 184), measured at study enrollment, predict the duration of their 
incremental survival. In the Kaplan-Meier analysis, females with IGF-1 levels 
below the median (≤ 96 ng mL(-1) ) had significantly longer survival compared 
with females with levels above the median, P < 0.01. However, this survival 
advantage was not observed in males (P = 0.83). On the other hand, in both males 
and females with a history of cancer, lower IGF-1 levels predicted longer 
survival (P < 0.01). IGF-1 level remained a significant predictor of survival 
duration in linear regression models after multivariable adjustment in females 
(P = 0.01) and individuals with a history of cancer (P < 0.01). We show for the 
first time that low IGF-1 levels predict life expectancy in exceptionally 
long-lived individuals.

© 2014 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12213
PMCID: PMC4116456
PMID: 24618355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


562. Menopause. 2014 Nov;21(11):1249-53. doi: 10.1097/GME.0000000000000226.

Epistasis between polymorphisms in PCSK1 and DBH is associated with premature 
ovarian failure.

Pyun JA(1), Kim S, Cha DH, Kwack K.

Author information:
(1)From the 1Department of Biomedical Science, College of Life Science, CHA 
University, Seongnam-si, Gyeonggi-do, Republic of Korea; and 2Division of 
Genetics, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, College of Medicine, CHA 
General Hospital, CHA University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

OBJECTIVE: This study examined whether epistasis between single nucleotide 
polymorphisms (SNPs) within proprotein convertase subtilisin/kexin type 1 
(PCSK1) and dopamine β-hydroxylase (DBH) genes is associated with premature 
ovarian failure (POF).
METHODS: One hundred twenty women with POF and 222 female controls were 
recruited for this study. To genotype SNPs within PCSK1 and DBH, we used a 
GoldenGate assay with VeraCode technology, which uses an allele-specific primer 
extension method.
RESULTS: Two SNPs (rs155979 and rs3762986) within PCSK1 and one SNP (rs1611114) 
within DBH, which were located in the 5' flanking region, were involved in 
synergistic interactions. The C allele in the rs155979 SNP showed an increased 
risk of POF in a dominant model when AA genotype in the rs1611114 SNP was 
present (odds ratio, 3.60; 95% CI, 1.82-7.14; P = 0.00024), whereas the G allele 
in the rs1611114 SNP showed a reduced risk of POF in a dominant model when at 
least one C allele at the rs155979 SNP was present (odds ratio, 0.24; 95% CI, 
0.11-0.51; P = 0.00018) or one G allele at the rs3762986 SNP was present (odds 
ratio, 0.33; 95% CI, 0.19-0.60; P = 0.00023).
CONCLUSIONS: Epistases between SNPs within PCSK1 and DBH genes are significantly 
associated with susceptibility or resistance to POF.

DOI: 10.1097/GME.0000000000000226
PMID: 24618767 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


563. Neurosurgery. 2014 Jul;75(1):61-71. doi: 10.1227/NEU.0000000000000344.

Trends in fluorescence image-guided surgery for gliomas.

Liu JT(1), Meza D, Sanai N.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Biomedical Engineering, Stony Brook University, Stony Brook, 
New York; ‡Barrow Brain Tumor Research Center, Division of Neurosurgical 
Oncology, Barrow Neurological Institute, St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical 
Center, Phoenix, Arizona.

Mounting evidence suggests that a more extensive surgical resection is 
associated with an improved life expectancy for both low-grade and high-grade 
glioma patients. However, radiographically complete resections are not often 
achieved in many cases because of the lack of sensitivity and specificity of 
current neurosurgical guidance techniques at the margins of diffuse infiltrative 
gliomas. Intraoperative fluorescence imaging offers the potential to improve the 
extent of resection and to investigate the possible benefits of resecting beyond 
the radiographic margins. Here, we provide a review of wide-field and 
high-resolution fluorescence-imaging strategies that are being developed for 
neurosurgical guidance, with a focus on emerging imaging technologies and 
clinically viable contrast agents. The strengths and weaknesses of these 
