Kasemsiri P(1), Prevedello DM(2), Otto BA(3), Old M(3), Ditzel Filho L(2), 
Kassam AB(4), Carrau RL(3).

Author information:
(1)Universidade de Khon Kaen, Faculdade de Medicina, Hospital Srinagarind, 
Departamento de Otorrinolaringologia, Khon Kaen, Tailândia.
(2)The Ohio State University, Wexner Medical Center, Departamento de Cirurgia 
Neurológica, ColumbusOH, EUA.
(3)The Ohio State University, Wexner Medical Center, Departamento de 
Otorrinolaringologia e Cirurgia de Cabeça e Pescoço, ColumbusOH, EUA.
(4)Ottawa University, Departamento de Cirurgia Neurológica, Ottawa, Canadá

Technical and technological innovations have spearheaded the expansion of the 
indications for the use of endoscopic endonasal approaches to extirpate 
malignancies of the sinonasal tract and adjacent skull base.
OBJECTIVE: Critical review of the available literature regarding the use of 
endoscopic endonasal approaches including indications, limitations, surgical 
techniques, oncologic outcome, and quality of life.
METHOD: Various endoscopic endonasal techniques are reviewed according to the 
origin and local extension of sinonasal and skull base malignancies including 
anterior cranial base, nasopharynx, clivus, and infratemporal fossa. In 
addition, the available literature is reviewed to assess outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Endoscopic endonasal approaches are an integral part of the 
armamentarium for the treatment of the sinonasal tract malignancies and skull 
base. In properly selected cases, it affords similar oncologic outcomes with 
lower morbidity than traditional open approaches. Nonetheless, these minimal 
access approaches should be considered a complement to well-established open 
approaches, which are still necessary in most advanced tumors.

DOI: 10.5935/1808-8694.20130138
PMCID: PMC9442400
PMID: 24474490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. J Biol Chem. 2014 Mar 21;289(12):8493-507. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M113.519884.
Epub  2014 Jan 28.

Novel ubiquitin-derived high affinity binding proteins with tumor targeting 
properties.

Lorey S(1), Fiedler E, Kunert A, Nerkamp J, Lange C, Fiedler M, Bosse-Doenecke 
E, Meysing M, Gloser M, Rundfeldt C, Rauchhaus U, Hänssgen I, Göttler T, 
Steuernagel A, Fiedler U, Haupts U.

Author information:
(1)From Scil Proteins GmbH, Heinrich-Damerow-Strasse 1, 06120 Halle (Saale), 
Germany.

Targeting effector molecules to tumor cells is a promising mode of action for 
cancer therapy and diagnostics. Binding proteins with high affinity and 
specificity for a tumor target that carry effector molecules such as toxins, 
cytokines, or radiolabels to their intended site of action are required for 
these applications. In order to yield high tumor accumulation while maintaining 
low levels in healthy tissues and blood, the half-life of such conjugates needs 
to be in an optimal range. Scaffold-based binding molecules are small proteins 
with high affinity and short systemic circulation. Due to their low molecular 
complexity, they are well suited for combination with effector molecules as well 
as half-life extension technologies yielding therapeutics with half-lives 
adapted to the specific therapy. We have identified ubiquitin as an ideal 
scaffold protein due to its outstanding biophysical and biochemical properties. 
Based on a dimeric ubiquitin library, high affinity and specific binding 
molecules, so-called Affilin® molecules, have been selected against the 
extradomain B of fibronectin, a target almost exclusively expressed in tumor 
tissues. Extradomain B-binding molecules feature high thermal and serum 
stability as well as strong in vitro target binding and in vivo tumor 
accumulation. Application of several half-life extension technologies results in 
molecules of largely unaffected affinity but significantly prolonged in vivo 
half-life and tumor retention. Our results demonstrate the utility of ubiquitin 
as a scaffold for the generation of high affinity binders in a modular fashion, 
which can be combined with effector molecules and half-life extension 
technologies.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M113.519884
PMCID: PMC3961674
PMID: 24474690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 27;9(1):e87060. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087060. 
eCollection 2014.

Efficacy and safety of talc pleurodesis for malignant pleural effusion: a 
meta-analysis.

Xia H(1), Wang XJ(1), Zhou Q(2), Shi HZ(3), Tong ZH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Beijing Chaoyang 
Hospital, Beijing Institute of Respiratory Medicine, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China.
(2)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Union Hospital, Tongji 
Medical College, Huazhong University of Science and Technology, Wuhan, China.
(3)Department of Respiratory and Critical Care Medicine, Beijing Chaoyang 
Hospital, Beijing Institute of Respiratory Medicine, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing, China ; Center of Medical Research, Beijing Chaoyang Hospital, Capital 
Medical University, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Talc pleurodesis has been widely used to control malignant pleural 
effusion; however, it is still not clear whether talc pleurodesis is more 
effective than other local therapies. We performed a meta-analysis to evaluate 
the efficacy and safety of talc pleurodesis in the management of malignant 
pleural effusion.
METHODS: PubMed, Embase, and Web of Science were searched for English-language 
studies of clinical controlled trials comparing talc pleurodesis with control 
therapies until August 8, 2013. Success rate and incidence of adverse events 
were evaluated. Relative risks were estimated using random- or fixed- effects 
model and statistical heterogeneity was assessed using I² test.
RESULTS: Twenty trials involving 1,525 patients with malignant pleural effusion 
were included. The success rate of talc pleurodesis was significantly higher 
than that of control therapies (relative risk, 1.21; 95% confidence interval, 
1.01-1.45; p = 0.035) with similar adverse events. In addition, thoracoscopic 
talc poudrage was more effective than bedside talc slurry (relative risk, 1.12; 
95% confidence interval, 1.01-1.23; p = 0.026).
CONCLUSIONS: The current evidences suggested the benefit for talc pleurodesis in 
the treatment of malignant pleural effusion. Talc pleurodesis, especially 
thoracoscopic talc poudrage pleurodesis, should be performed in patients with 
malignant pleural effusion, especially those with life-expectancy longer than 
one month.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0087060
PMCID: PMC3903610
PMID: 24475222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


217. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2013 Sep 16;(9):ED000067. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.ED000067.

Screening for prostate cancer: shaping the debate on benefits and harms.

Dahm P(1), Neuberger M, Ilic D.

Author information:
(1)Cochrane Prostatic Diseases and Urologic Cancers Group.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.ED000067
PMID: 24475492 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. BMC Public Health. 2014 Jan 29;14:89. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-89.

Screen or not to screen for peripheral arterial disease: guidance from a 
decision model.

Vaidya A(1), Joore MA, Ten Cate-Hoek AJ, Ten Cate H, Severens JL.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment 
(KEMTA), Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, The Netherlands. 
a.vaidya@maastrichtuniversity.nl.

BACKGROUND: Asymptomatic Peripheral Arterial Disease (PAD) is associated with 
greater risk of acute cardiovascular events. This study aims to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of one time only PAD screening using Ankle Brachial Index 
(ABI) test and subsequent anti platelet preventive treatment (low dose aspirin 
or clopidogrel) in individuals at high risk for acute cardiovascular events 
compared to no screening and no treatment using decision analytic modelling.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was developed to evaluate the life time 
cost-effectiveness of the strategy of selective PAD screening and consequent 
preventive treatment compared to no screening and no preventive treatment. The 
analysis was conducted from the Dutch societal perspective and to address 
decision uncertainty, probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed. Results 
were based on average values of 1000 Monte Carlo simulations and using discount 
rates of 1.5% and 4% for effects and costs respectively. One way sensitivity 
analyses were performed to identify the two most influential model parameters 
affecting model outputs. Then, a two way sensitivity analysis was conducted for 
combinations of values tested for these two most influential parameters.
RESULTS: For the PAD screening strategy, life years and quality adjusted life 
years gained were 21.79 and 15.66 respectively at a lifetime cost of 26,548 
Euros. Compared to no screening and treatment (20.69 life years, 15.58 Quality 
Adjusted Life Years, 28,052 Euros), these results indicate that PAD screening 
and treatment is a dominant strategy. The cost effectiveness acceptability 
curves show 88% probability of PAD screening being cost effective at the 
Willingness To Pay (WTP) threshold of 40000 Euros. In a scenario analysis using 
clopidogrel as an alternative anti-platelet drug, PAD screening strategy 
remained dominant.
CONCLUSION: This decision analysis suggests that targeted ABI screening and 
consequent secondary prevention of cardiovascular events using low dose aspirin 
or clopidogrel in the identified patients is a cost-effective strategy. 
Implementation of targeted PAD screening and subsequent treatment in primary 
care practices and in public health programs is likely to improve the societal 
health and to save health care costs by reducing catastrophic cardiovascular 
events.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-89
PMCID: PMC3912926
PMID: 24476213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Ophthalmic Physiol Opt. 2014 Mar;34(2):163-85. doi: 10.1111/opo.12108. Epub
2014  Jan 29.

Binocular fusion, suppression and diplopia for blurred edges.

Georgeson MA(1), Wallis SA.

Author information:
(1)School of Life & Health Sciences, Aston University, Birmingham, UK.

PURPOSE: (1) To devise a model-based method for estimating the probabilities of 
binocular fusion, interocular suppression and diplopia from psychophysical 
judgements, (2) To map out the way fusion, suppression and diplopia vary with 
binocular disparity and blur of single edges shown to each eye, (3) To compare 
the binocular interactions found for edges of the same vs opposite contrast 
polarity.
METHODS: Test images were single, horizontal, Gaussian-blurred edges, with blur 
B = 1-32 min arc, and vertical disparity 0-8.B, shown for 200 ms. In the main 
experiment, observers reported whether they saw one central edge, one offset 
edge, or two edges. We argue that the relation between these three response 
categories and the three perceptual states (fusion, suppression, diplopia) is 
indirect and likely to be distorted by positional noise and criterion effects, 
and so we developed a descriptive, probabilistic model to estimate both the 
perceptual states and the noise/criterion parameters from the data.
RESULTS: (1) Using simulated data, we validated the model-based method by 
showing that it recovered fairly accurately the disparity ranges for fusion and 
suppression, (2) The disparity range for fusion (Panum's limit) increased 
greatly with blur, in line with previous studies. The disparity range for 
suppression was similar to the fusion limit at large blurs, but two or three 
times the fusion limit at small blurs. This meant that diplopia was much more 
prevalent at larger blurs, (3) Diplopia was much more frequent when the two 
edges had opposite contrast polarity. A formal comparison of models indicated 
that fusion occurs for same, but not opposite, polarities. Probability of 
suppression was greater for unequal contrasts, and it was always the 
lower-contrast edge that was suppressed.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model-based data analysis offers a useful tool for probing 
binocular fusion and suppression psychophysically. The disparity range for 
fusion increased with edge blur but fell short of complete scale-invariance. The 
disparity range for suppression also increased with blur but was not close to 
scale-invariance. Single vision occurs through fusion, but also beyond the 
fusion range, through suppression. Thus suppression can serve as a mechanism for 
extending single vision to larger disparities, but mainly for sharper edges 
where the fusion range is small (5-10 min arc). For large blurs the fusion range 
is so much larger that no such extension may be needed.

© 2014 The Authors Ophthalmic & Physiological Optics © 2014 The College of 
Optometrists.

DOI: 10.1111/opo.12108
PMCID: PMC4312971
PMID: 24476421 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Epidemiol Infect. 2014 Nov;142(11):2412-21. doi: 10.1017/S0950268813003531.
Epub  2014 Jan 24.

Comparing the impact of two concurrent infectious disease outbreaks on The 
Netherlands population, 2009, using disability-adjusted life years.

Brooke RJ(1), Van Lier A(2), Donker GA(3), Van Der Hoek W(2), Kretzschmar ME(1).

Author information:
(1)University Medical Center Utrecht,Utrecht,The Netherlands.
(2)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment,Bilthoven,The 
Netherlands.
(3)NIVEL,Netherlands Institute of Health Services Research, Utrecht,The 
Netherlands.

In 2009 two notable outbreaks, Q fever and the novel influenza A(H1N1)pdm09, 
occurred in The Netherlands. Using a composite health measure, 
disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), the outbreaks were quantified and 
compared. DALYs were calculated using standardized methodology incorporating 
age- and sex-stratified data in a disease progression model; years lost due to 
disability and years of life lost were computed by outcome. Nationally, 
influenza A(H1N1)pdm09 caused more DALYs (24 484) than Q fever (5797). However, 
Q fever was 8·28 times more severe [497 DALYs/1000 symptomatic cases (DP1SC)] 
than A(H1N1)pdm09 (60 DP1SC). The A(H1N1)pdm09 burden is largely due to 
mortality while the Q fever burden is due primarily to long-term sequelae. 
Intervention prioritization for influenza should support patients in a critical 
condition while for Q fever it should target immediate containment and support 
for patients with long-term sequelae. Burden estimates provide guidance for 
focusing intervention options during outbreaks of infectious diseases.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268813003531
PMCID: PMC9151298
PMID: 24476696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Med Decis Making. 2015 Feb;35(2):196-210. doi: 10.1177/0272989X13518272.
Epub  2014 Jan 29.

Modeling and calibration for exposure to time-varying, modifiable risk factors: 
the example of smoking behavior in India.

Goldhaber-Fiebert JD(1), Brandeau ML(2).

Author information:
(1)Stanford Health Policy, Centers for Health Policy and Primary Care and 
Outcomes Research, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, USA (JDG-F)
(2)Department of Management Science and Engineering, Stanford University, 
Stanford, CA, USA (MLB)

BACKGROUND: Risk factors increase the incidence and severity of chronic disease. 
To examine future trends and develop policies addressing chronic diseases, it is 
important to capture the relationship between exposure and disease development, 
which is challenging given limited data.
OBJECTIVE: To develop parsimonious risk factor models embeddable in chronic 
disease models, which are useful when longitudinal data are unavailable.
DESIGN: The model structures encode relevant features of risk factors (e.g., 
time-varying, modifiable) and can be embedded in chronic disease models. 
Calibration captures time-varying exposures for the risk factor models using 
available cross-sectional data. We illustrate feasibility with the 
policy-relevant example of smoking in India.
METHODS: The model is calibrated to the prevalence of male smoking in 12 Indian 
regions estimated from the 2009-2010 Indian Global Adult Tobacco Survey. 
Nelder-Mead searches (250,000 starting locations) identify distributions of 
starting, quitting, and restarting rates that minimize the difference between 
modeled and observed age-specific prevalence. We compare modeled life 
expectancies to estimates in the absence of time-varying risk exposures and 
consider gains from hypothetical smoking cessation programs delivered for 1 to 
30 years.
RESULTS: Calibration achieves concordance between modeled and observed outcomes. 
Probabilities of starting to smoke rise and fall with age, while quitting and 
restarting probabilities fall with age. Accounting for time-varying smoking 
exposures is important, as not doing so produces smaller estimates of life 
expectancy losses. Estimated impacts of smoking cessation programs delivered for 
different periods depend on the fact that people who have been induced to 
abstain from smoking longer are less likely to restart.
CONCLUSIONS: The approach described is feasible for important risk factors for 
numerous chronic diseases. Incorporating exposure-change rates can improve 
modeled estimates of chronic disease outcomes and of the long-term effects of 
interventions targeting risk factors.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X13518272
PMCID: PMC4115057
PMID: 24477078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Clin Interv Aging. 2014 Jan 15;9:191-9. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S39763. eCollection
 2014.

Current and emerging treatment options for the elderly patient with chronic 
kidney disease.

Fassett RG(1).

Author information:
(1)The University of Queensland, School of Human Movement Studies, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.

The objective of this article is to review the current and emerging treatments 
of CKD prior to dialysis in the elderly. Worldwide, there are increasing numbers 
of people who are aged over 65 years. In parallel, there are increasing numbers 
of elderly patients presenting with chronic kidney disease (CKD), particularly 
in the more advanced stages. The elderly have quite different health care needs 
related to their associated comorbidity, frailty, social isolation, poor 
functional status, and cognitive decline. Clinical trials assessing treatments 
for CKD have usually excluded patients older than 70-75 years; therefore, it is 
difficult to translate current therapies recommended for younger patients with 
CKD across to the elderly. Many elderly people with CKD progress to end-stage 
kidney disease and face the dilemma of whether to undertake dialysis or accept a 
conservative approach supported by palliative care. This places pressure on the 
patient, their family, and on health care resources. The clinical trajectory of 
elderly CKD patients has in the past been unclear, but recent evidence suggests 
that many patients over 75 years of age with multiple comorbidities have greatly 
reduced life expectancies and quality of life, even if they choose dialysis 
treatment. Offering a conservative pathway supported by palliative care is a 
reasonable option for some patients under these circumstances. The elderly 
person who chooses to have dialysis will frequently have different requirements 
than younger patients. Kidney transplantation can still result in improved life 
expectancy and quality of life in the elderly, in carefully selected people. 
There is a genuine need for the inclusion of the elderly in CKD clinical trials 
in the future so we can produce evidence-based therapies for this group. In 
addition, new therapies to treat and slow CKD progression are needed for all age 
groups.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S39763
PMCID: PMC3896291
PMID: 24477220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Apr;32(4):367-75. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0136-z.

Estimating QALY gains in applied studies: a review of cost-utility analyses 
published in 2010.

Wisløff T(1), Hagen G, Hamidi V, Movik E, Klemp M, Olsen JA.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Knowledge Centre for the Health Services, Postboks 7004 St. Olavs 
plass, 0130, Oslo, Norway, twisloff@gmail.com.

Reimbursement agencies in several countries now require health outcomes to be 
measured in terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), leading to an immense 
increase in publications reporting QALY gains. However, there is a growing 
concern that the various 'multi-attribute utility' (MAU) instruments designed to 
measure the Q in the QALY yield disparate values, implying that results from 
different instruments are incommensurable. By reviewing cost-utility analyses 
published in 2010, we aim to contribute to improved knowledge on how QALYs are 
currently calculated in applied analyses; how transparently QALY measurement is 
presented; and how large the expected incremental QALY gains are. We searched 
Embase, MEDLINE and NHS EED for all cost-utility analyses published in 2010. All 
analyses that had estimated QALYs gained from health interventions were 
included. Of the 370 studies included in this review, 48% were pharmacoeconomic 
evaluations. Active comparators were used in 71% of studies. The median 
incremental QALY gain was 0.06, which translates to 3 weeks in best imaginable 
health. The EQ-5D-3L is the dominant instrument used. However, reporting of how 
QALY gains are estimated is generally inadequate. In 55% of the studies there 
was no reference to which MAU instrument or direct valuation method QALY data 
came from. The methods used for estimating expected QALY gains are not 
transparently reported in published papers. Given the wide variation in utility 
scores that different methodologies may assign to an identical health state, it 
is important for journal editors to require a more transparent way of reporting 
the estimation of incremental QALY gains.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0136-z
PMCID: PMC3964297
PMID: 24477679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Am J Hematol. 2014 May;89(5):530-5. doi: 10.1002/ajh.23683. Epub 2014 Feb
21.

Factors associated with survival in a contemporary adult sickle cell disease 
cohort.

Elmariah H(1), Garrett ME, De Castro LM, Jonassaint JC, Ataga KI, Eckman JR, 
Ashley-Koch AE, Telen MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina.

In this study, the relationship of clinical differences among patients with 
sickle cell disease (SCD) was examined to understand the major contributors to 
early mortality in a contemporary cohort. Survival data were obtained for 542 
adult subjects who were enrolled since 2002 at three university hospitals in the 
southeast United States. Subjects were followed up for a median of 9.3 years. At 
enrollment, clinical parameters were collected, including hemoglobin (Hb) 
genotype, baseline laboratory values, comorbidities, and medication usage. 
Levels of soluble adhesion molecules were measured for a subset of 87 subjects. 
The relationship of clinical characteristics to survival was determined using 
regression analysis. Median age at enrollment was 32 years. Median survival was 
61 years for all subjects. Median survival for Hb SS and Sβ(0) was 58 years and 
for Hb SC and Sβ(+) was 66 years. Elevated white blood count, lower estimated 
glomerular filtration rate, proteinuria, frequency of pain crises, pulmonary 
hypertension, cerebrovascular events, seizures, stroke, sVCAM-1, and 
short-acting narcotics use were significantly associated with decreased 
survival. Forty-two percent of subjects were on hydroxyurea therapy, which was 
not associated with survival. SCD continues to reduce life expectancy for 
affected individuals, particularly those with Hb Sβ(0) and SS. Not only were 
comorbidities individually associated with decreased survival but also an 
additive effect was observed, thus, those with a greater number of negative 
endpoints had worse survival (P < 0.0001). The association of higher sVCAM-1 
levels with decreased survival suggests that targeted therapies to reduce 
endothelial damage and inflammation may also be beneficial.

Copyright © 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajh.23683
PMCID: PMC3988218
PMID: 24478166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. J Family Med Prim Care. 2012 Jan;1(1):69-73. doi: 10.4103/2249-4863.94458.

Disability and rehabilitation services in India: issues and challenges.

Kumar SG(1), Roy G(1), Kar SS(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Social Medicine, Jawaharlal Institute of 
Postgraduate Medical Education and Research, Puducherry, India.

Disability is an important public health problem especially in developing 
countries like India. The problem will increase in future because of increase in 
trend of non-communicable diseases and change in age structure with an increase 
in life expectancy. The issues are different in developed and developing 
countries, and rehabilitation measures should be targeted according the needs of 
the disabled with community participation. In India, a majority of the disabled 
resides in rural areas where accessibility, availability, and utilization of 
rehabilitation services and its cost-effectiveness are the major issues to be 
considered. Research on disability burden, appropriate intervention strategies 
and their implementation to the present context in India is a big challenge. 
Recent data was collected from Medline and various other sources and analyzed. 
The paper discusses various issues and challenges related to disability and 
rehabilitation services in India and emphasize to strengthen health care and 
service delivery to disabled in the community.

DOI: 10.4103/2249-4863.94458
PMCID: PMC3893941
PMID: 24479007

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


226. Crit Rev Clin Lab Sci. 2014 Apr;51(2):98-111. doi:
10.3109/10408363.2013.865702.  Epub 2014 Jan 30.

Role of inflammation in HIV-1 disease progression and prognosis.

Ipp H(1), Zemlin AE, Erasmus RT, Glashoff RH.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and.

Inflammation and immune activation have been thrust to center stage in the 
understanding of HIV-1 disease pathogenesis and progression. Early work 
demonstrated that heightened levels of immune activation correlated with the 
extent of CD4 + T cell death in lymphoid tissue; however, this concept was not 
incorporated into the general view of disease pathogenesis. Since these early 
studies, the extension of life for patients on combination antiretroviral 
therapies (cART) has heralded a new era of non-AIDS-related diseases and 
incomplete restoration of immune function. The common link appears to be ongoing 
inflammation and immune activation. Thus, despite good control of viral loads, 
persons living with HIV (PLWH) remain at increased risk of 
inflammatory-associated complications such as cardiovascular disease and certain 
cancers. HIV-specific mechanisms as well as non-specific generalized responses 
to infection contribute to ongoing activation of the immune system. An early 
loss of gastrointestinal (GI) tract mucosal integrity, the pro-inflammatory 
cytokine milieu, co-infections and marked destruction of lymph node architecture 
are all factors contributing to the ongoing activation of the immune system as 
well as impaired immune recovery. It is becoming increasingly evident that the 
CD4 count and viral load do not provide a complete picture of the underlying 
state of the immune system. Heightened levels of inflammatory markers have been 
shown to predict increased mortality and other adverse events. Therefore, it 
will be important to incorporate these markers into management algorithms as 
soon as possible. This is particularly relevant in resource-poor countries where 
difficulties in cART roll-out and access are still encountered and, therefore, a 
mechanism for prioritizing individuals for therapy would be of value. This 
review will focus on the closely inter-related concepts of immune activation and 
inflammation. Both are broad concepts involving the interaction of various key 
players in the immune system. Importantly, immune activation promotes 
inflammation and thrombosis and similarly, inflammation and thrombosis induce 
immune activation. These concepts are thus intricately linked. Studies 
highlighting the potentially harmful effects of ongoing inflammation/immune 
activation are reviewed and the contributions of the GI tract "damage" and other 
co-infections such as CMV are explored. The complications resulting from 
persistent immune activation include enhanced CD4 + T cell death, lymphoid 
tissue destruction, and various pathologies related to chronic inflammation. 
Ultimately, we envision that the long-term management of the disease will 
incorporate both the identification and the amelioration of the potentially 
harmful effects of ongoing immune activation and inflammation.

DOI: 10.3109/10408363.2013.865702
PMID: 24479745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Epidemiol Infect. 2014 Oct;142(10):2024-35. doi: 10.1017/S0950268813003312.
Epub  2014 Jan 2.

The disease burden of hepatitis B, influenza, measles and salmonellosis in 
Germany: first results of the burden of communicable diseases in Europe study.

Plass D(1), Mangen MJ(2), Kraemer A(1), Pinheiro P(1), Gilsdorf A(3), Krause 
G(3), Gibbons CL(4), VAN Lier A(5), McDONALD SA(5), Brooke RJ(2), Kramarz P(6), 
Cassini A(6), Kretzschmar ME(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Medicine, School of Public Health,University of 
Bielefeld,Bielefeld,Germany.
(2)University Medical Centre Utrecht (UMCU),Utrecht,The Netherlands.
(3)Robert Koch Institute,Berlin,Germany.
(4)Institute of Evolutionary Biology,University of Edinburgh,Edinburgh, 
Scotland,UK.
(5)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM),Centre for 
Infectious Disease Control, Bilthoven,The Netherlands.
(6)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), Stockholm,Sweden.

Setting priorities in the field of infectious diseases requires evidence-based 
and robust baseline estimates of disease burden. Therefore, the European Centre 
for Disease Prevention and Control initiated the Burden of Communicable Diseases 
in Europe (BCoDE) project. The project uses an incidence- and pathogen-based 
approach to measure the impact of both acute illness and sequelae of infectious 
diseases expressed in disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). This study 
presents first estimates of disease burden for four pathogens in Germany. The 
number of reported incident cases adjusted for underestimation served as model 
input. For the study period 2005-2007, the average disease burden was estimated 
at 33 116 DALYs/year for influenza virus, 19 115 DALYs/year for Salmonella spp., 
8708 DALYs/year for hepatitis B virus and 740 DALYs/year for measles virus. This 
methodology highlights the importance of sequelae, particularly for hepatitis B 
and salmonellosis, because if omitted, the burden would have been underestimated 
by 98% and 56%, respectively.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268813003312
PMCID: PMC9151280
PMID: 24480146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Pathobiology. 2014;81(2):100-11. doi: 10.1159/000357435. Epub 2014 Jan 29.

Skeletal metastatic carcinomas from the Roman period (1st to 5th Century AD) in 
Hungary.

Merczi M(1), Marcsik A, Bernert Z, Józsa L, Buczkó K, Lassányi G, Kelemen MH, 
Zádori P, Vandulek C, Biró G, Hajdu T, Molnár E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Archeology, Balassa Bálint Museum, Esztergom, Hungary.

OBJECTIVES: According to paleopathological records, tumors have a great 
antiquity. The prevalence of cancer in ancient populations might have differed 
from that in modern humans because of substantial differences in environmental 
factors, life expectancy and the availability of treatment. This study presents 
3 cases of probable skeletal metastatic carcinoma from the Roman period (1st-5th 
century AD) in Hungary, showing the development of bone metastases of cancer 
without chemo- and radiotherapy.
METHODS: All skeletons were subjected to a careful macroscopic investigation, 
which was extended by radiological, stereo- and scanning electron microscopic 
analyses.
RESULTS: In 1 case, the mixed nature and localization of the lesions, as well as 
the sex and age of the individual, suggested breast cancer as the primary focus. 
In the other 2 cases, based on the mostly osteoblastic nature and the 
localization of the lesions as well as on the sex and age of the individuals, 
the most probable diagnostic option is prostate carcinoma with skeletal 
metastases.
CONCLUSIONS: In view of the scarcity of cancer metastases that have been 
diagnosed in archeological specimens in general, identification of all examples 
of cancer in antiquity represents an important contribution both to 
paleopathology and to modern medicine.

© 2013 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000357435
PMID: 24480898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Chest. 2014 Jun;145(6):1347-1356. doi: 10.1378/chest.13-1908.

Quality-adjusted survival following treatment of malignant pleural effusions 
with indwelling pleural catheters.

Ost DE(1), Jimenez CA(2), Lei X(3), Cantor SB(4), Grosu HB(2), Lazarus DR(4), 
Faiz SA(2), Bashoura L(2), Shannon VR(2), Balachandran D(2), Noor L(2), Hashmi 
YB(2), Casal RF(4), Morice RC(2), Eapen GA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Biostatistics, Section of 
Health Services Research, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center. 
Electronic address: dost@mdanderson.org.
(2)Department of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Biostatistics, Section of 
Health Services Research, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center.
(3)Section of Pulmonary, Critical Care, and Sleep Medicine, Baylor College of 
Medicine.
(4)Michael E. DeBakey VA Medical Center, Houston, TX.

BACKGROUND: Malignant pleural effusions (MPEs) are a frequent cause of dyspnea 
in patients with cancer. Although indwelling pleural catheters (IPCs) have been 
used since 1997, there are no studies of quality-adjusted survival following IPC 
placement.
METHODS: With a standardized algorithm, this prospective observational cohort 
study of patients with MPE treated with IPCs assessed global health-related 
quality of life using the SF-6D to calculate utilities. Quality-adjusted life 
days (QALDs) were calculated by integrating utilities over time.
RESULTS: A total of 266 patients were enrolled. Median quality-adjusted survival 
was 95.1 QALDs. Dyspnea improved significantly following IPC placement (P &lt; 
.001), but utility increased only modestly. Patients who had chemotherapy or 
radiation after IPC placement (P &lt; .001) and those who were more short of 
breath at baseline (P = .005) had greater improvements in utility. In a 
competing risk model, the 1-year cumulative incidence of events was death with 
IPC in place, 35.7%; IPC removal due to decreased drainage, 51.9%; and IPC 
removal due to complications, 7.3%. Recurrent MPE requiring repeat intervention 
occurred in 14% of patients whose IPC was removed. Recurrence was more common 
when IPC removal was due to complications (P = .04) or malfunction (P &lt; .001) 
rather than to decreased drainage.
CONCLUSIONS: IPC placement has significant beneficial effects in selected 
patient populations. The determinants of quality-adjusted survival in patients 
with MPE are complex. Although dyspnea is one of them, receiving treatment after 
IPC placement is also important. Future research should use patient-centered 
outcomes in addition to time-to-event analysis.
TRIAL REGISTRY: ClinicalTrials.gov; No.: NCT01117740; URL: 
www.clinicaltrials.gov.

DOI: 10.1378/chest.13-1908
PMCID: PMC4694176
PMID: 24480929 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Viruses. 2014 Jan 29;6(2):489-506. doi: 10.3390/v6020489.

Structural analyses of Avocado sunblotch viroid reveal differences in the 
folding of plus and minus RNA strands.

Delan-Forino C(1), Deforges J(2), Benard L(3), Sargueil B(4), Maurel MC(5), 
Torchet C(6).

Author information:
(1)Sorbonne Universités, Université Pierre et Marie Curie UPMC Univ Paris 06, 
Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, FRE3207, Laboratoire ANBIOPHY, 
Fonctions et Interactions des Acides Nucléiques, 75005 Paris, France. 
clementine.delanforino@gmail.com.
(2)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Unité Mixte de Recherche 
UMR8015, Laboratoire de Cristallographie et RMN Biologiques, Université Paris 
Descartes, 4 avenue de l'Observatoire, 75270 Paris Cedex 06, France. 
jules.deforges@gmail.com.
(3)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Unité Mixte de Recherche 
UMR8226, Laboratoire de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire des Eucaryotes, 
Institut de Biologie Physico-Chimique, 75005 Paris, France. 
lionel.benard@ibpc.fr.
(4)Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, Unité Mixte de Recherche 
UMR8015, Laboratoire de Cristallographie et RMN Biologiques, Université Paris 
Descartes, 4 avenue de l'Observatoire, 75270 Paris Cedex 06, France. 
bruno.sargueil@parisdescartes.fr.
(5)Sorbonne Universités, Université Pierre et Marie Curie UPMC Univ Paris 06, 
Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, FRE3207, Laboratoire ANBIOPHY, 
Fonctions et Interactions des Acides Nucléiques, 75005 Paris, France. 
marie-christine.maurel@upmc.fr.
(6)Sorbonne Universités, Université Pierre et Marie Curie UPMC Univ Paris 06, 
Centre National de la Recherche Scientifique, FRE3207, Laboratoire ANBIOPHY, 
Fonctions et Interactions des Acides Nucléiques, 75005 Paris, France. 
claire.torchet_devaux@upmc.fr.

Viroids are small pathogenic circular single-stranded RNAs, present in two 
complementary sequences, named plus and minus, in infected plant cells. A high 
degree of complementarities between different regions of the RNAs allows them to 
adopt complex structures. Since viroids are naked non-coding RNAs, interactions 
with host factors appear to be closely related to their structural and catalytic 
characteristics. Avocado sunblotch viroid (ASBVd), a member of the family 
Avsunviroidae, replicates via a symmetric RNA-dependant rolling-circle process, 
involving self-cleavage via hammerhead ribozymes. Consequently, it is assumed 
that ASBVd plus and minus strands adopt similar structures. Moreover, by 
computer analyses, a quasi-rod-like secondary structure has been predicted. 
Nevertheless, secondary and tertiary structures of both polarities of ASBVd 
remain unsolved. In this study, we analyzed the characteristic of each strand of 
ASBVd through biophysical analyses. We report that ASBVd transcripts of plus and 
minus polarities exhibit differences in electrophoretic mobility under native 
conditions and in thermal denaturation profiles. Subsequently, the secondary 
structures of plus and minus polarities of ASBVd were probed using the 
RNA-selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension (SHAPE) method. 
The models obtained show that both polarities fold into different structures. 
Moreover, our results suggest the existence of a kissing-loop interaction within 
the minus strand that may play a role in in vivo viroid life cycle.

DOI: 10.3390/v6020489
PMCID: PMC3939467
PMID: 24481250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Cancer. 2014 May 1;120(9):1345-52. doi: 10.1002/cncr.28562. Epub 2014 Jan
30.

Annual financial impact of well-differentiated thyroid cancer care in the United 
States.

Lubitz CC(1), Kong CY, McMahon PM, Daniels GH, Chen Y, Economopoulos KP, Gazelle 
GS, Weinstein MC.

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Surgery, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; Institute for Technology 
Assessment, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Well-differentiated thyroid cancer (WDTC) is a prevalent disease, 
which is increasing in incidence faster than any other cancer. Substantial 
direct medical care costs are related to the diagnosis and treatment of newly 
diagnosed patients as well as the ongoing surveillance of patients who have a 
long life expectancy. Prior analyses of the aggregate health care costs 
attributable to WDTC in the United States have not been reported.
METHODS: A stacked cohort cost analysis was performed on the US population from 
1985 to 2013 to estimate the number of WDTC survivors in 2013. Incidence rates, 
and cancer-specific and overall survival were based on Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER) data. Current and projected direct medical 
care costs attributable to the care of patients with WDTC were then estimated. 
Health care-related costs and event probabilities were based on Medicare 
reimbursement schedules and the literature.
RESULTS: Estimated overall societal cost of WDTC care in 2013 for all US 
patients diagnosed after 1985 is $1.6 billion. Diagnosis, surgery, and adjuvant 
therapy for newly diagnosed patients (41%) constitutes the greatest proportion 
of costs, followed by surveillance of survivors (37%), and nonoperative death 
costs attributable to thyroid cancer care (22%). Projected 2030 costs (in 2013 
US dollars) based on current incidence trends exceed $3.5 billion.
CONCLUSIONS: Health care costs of WDTC are substantial. Unlike other cancers, 
the majority of the cost is incurred in the initial and continuing phases of 
care. With the projected increasing incidence, population, and survival trends, 
costs will continue to escalate.

© 2014 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28562
PMCID: PMC3999178
PMID: 24481684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. J Public Health (Oxf). 2014 Dec;36(4):674-83. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdt132.
Epub  2014 Jan 30.

Social and material deprivation and the cost-effectiveness of an intervention to 
promote physical activity: cohort study and Markov model.

Gulliford M(1), Charlton J(1), Bhattarai N(1), Rudisill C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care and Public Health Sciences, King's College London, 
London, UK.
(2)Department of Social Policy, London School of Economics and Political 
Science, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: We developed a method to model the cost-effectiveness at different 
levels of deprivation of an intervention to promote physical activity.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness of a brief intervention in primary care was 
estimated by means of a Markov model stratified by deprivation quintile. 
Estimates for disease incidence, mortality, depression prevalence and health 
service utilization were obtained from 282 887 participants in the UK Clinical 
Practice Research Datalink with linked deprivation scores. Discounted results 
were compared for least deprived and most deprived quintiles.
RESULTS: An effective intervention to promote physical activity continuing for 5 
years gave an increase in life years free from disease: least deprived 54.9 (95% 
interval 17.5-93.5) per 1000 participants entering model; most deprived 74.5 
(22.8-128.0) per 1000. The overall incremental quality adjusted life years were: 
least deprived, 3.7 per 1000 and most deprived, 6.1 per 1000 with probability 
cost-effective at £30 000 per QALY being 52.5 and 63.3%, respectively. When the 
intervention was modelled to be 30% less effective in the most deprived than the 
least deprived quintile, the probability cost-effective was least deprived 52.9% 
and most deprived 55.9%.
CONCLUSION: Physical activity interventions may generate greater health benefits 
in deprived populations. When intervention effectiveness is attenuated in 
deprived groups, cost-effectiveness may sometimes still be similar to that in 
the most affluent groups. Even with favourable assumptions, evidence was 
insufficient to support wider use of presently available brief primary care 
interventions in a universal strategy for primary prevention.

© The Author 2014, Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Faculty of 
Public Health.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdt132
PMCID: PMC4245899
PMID: 24482061 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Ann Rheum Dis. 2014 Jul;73(7):1309-15. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204431.
 Epub 2014 Jan 30.

The global burden of neck pain: estimates from the global burden of disease 2010 
study.

Hoy D(1), March L(2), Woolf A(3), Blyth F(4), Brooks P(5), Smith E(6), Vos T(7), 
Barendregt J(8), Blore J(9), Murray C(10), Burstein R(10), Buchbinder R(11).

Author information:
(1)University of Queensland, Herston, Queensland, Australia.
(2)Department of Rheumatology, University of Sydney Institute of Bone and Joint 
Research, Royal North Shore Hospital, St Leonards, New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Department of Rheumatology, Royal Cornwall Hospital, Truro, UK.
(4)School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Camperdown, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(5)Australian Health Workforce Institute, University of Melbourne, Carlton, 
Victoria, Australia.
(6)Northern Clinical School, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, Royal 
North Shore Hospital, St Leonards, New South Wales, Australia.
(7)University of Queensland, School of Population Health, and Institute for 
Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
USA.
(8)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Herston, Queensland, 
Australia.
(9)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health 
and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.
(10)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, USA.
(11)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, School of Public Health 
and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, Victoria, Australia Monash 
Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Cabrini Institute and Monash University, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the global burden of neck pain.
METHODS: Neck pain was defined as pain in the neck with or without pain referred 
into one or both upper limbs that lasts for at least 1 day. Systematic reviews 
were performed of the prevalence, incidence, remission, duration and mortality 
risk of neck pain. Four levels of severity were identified for neck pain with 
and without arm pain, each with their own disability weights. A Bayesian 
meta-regression method was used to pool prevalence and derive missing 
age/sex/region/year values. The disability weights were applied to prevalence 
values to derive the overall disability of neck pain expressed as years lived 
with disability (YLDs). YLDs have the same value as disability-adjusted life 
years as there is no evidence of mortality associated with neck pain.
RESULTS: The global point prevalence of neck pain was 4.9% (95% CI 4.6 to 5.3). 
Disability-adjusted life years increased from 23.9 million (95% CI 16.5 to 33.1) 
in 1990 to 33.6 million (95% CI 23.5 to 46.5) in 2010. Out of all 291 conditions 
studied in the Global Burden of Disease 2010 Study, neck pain ranked 4th highest 
in terms of disability as measured by YLDs, and 21st in terms of overall burden.
CONCLUSIONS: Neck pain is a common condition that causes substantial disability. 
With aging global populations, further research is urgently needed to better 
understand the predictors and clinical course of neck pain, as well as the ways 
in which neck pain can be prevented and better managed.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204431
PMID: 24482302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 15;9(1):e84832. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084832. 
eCollection 2014.

Sleep extension improves neurocognitive functions in chronically sleep-deprived 
obese individuals.

Lucassen EA(1), Piaggi P(2), Dsurney J(3), de Jonge L(4), Zhao XC(5), Mattingly 
MS(4), Ramer A(4), Gershengorn J(4), Csako G(6), Cizza G(4); Sleep Extension 
Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Center, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America ; 
Laboratory for Neurophysiology, Department of Molecular Cell Biology, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(2)Obesity Research Center, Endocrinology Unit, University Hospital of Pisa, 
Pisa, Italy.
(3)Clinical Center, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America ; Center 
for Neuroscience and Regenerative Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of 
America.
(4)Section on Neuroendocrinology of Obesity, NIDDK, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, 
United States of America.
(5)Intramural Research Program, NIDDK, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of 
America.
(6)Clinical Center, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, United States of America ; 
Department of Laboratory Medicine, Clinical Center, NIH, Bethesda, Maryland, 
United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Sleep deprivation and obesity, are associated with neurocognitive 
impairments. Effects of sleep deprivation and obesity on cognition are unknown, 
and the cognitive long-term effects of improvement of sleep have not been 
prospectively assessed in short sleeping, obese individuals.
OBJECTIVE: To characterize neurocognitive functions and assess its 
reversibility.
DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
SETTING: Tertiary Referral Research Clinical Center.
PATIENTS: A cohort of 121 short-sleeping (<6.5 h/night) obese (BMI 30-55 
kg/m(2)) men and pre-menopausal women.
INTERVENTION: Sleep extension (468±88 days) with life-style modifications.
MEASUREMENTS: Neurocognitive functions, sleep quality and sleep duration.
RESULTS: At baseline, 44% of the individuals had an impaired global deficit 
score (t-score 0-39). Impaired global deficit score was associated with worse 
subjective sleep quality (p = 0.02), and lower urinary dopamine levels 
(p = 0.001). Memory was impaired in 33%; attention in 35%; motor skills in 42%; 
and executive function in 51% of individuals. At the final evaluation (N = 74), 
subjective sleep quality improved by 24% (p<0.001), self-reported sleep duration 
increased by 11% by questionnaires (p<0.001) and by 4% by diaries (p = 0.04), 
and daytime sleepiness tended to improve (p = 0.10). Global cognitive function 
and attention improved by 7% and 10%, respectively (both p = 0.001), and memory 
and executive functions tended to improve (p = 0.07 and p = 0.06). Serum 
cortisol increased by 17% (p = 0.02). In a multivariate mixed model, subjective 
sleep quality and sleep efficiency, urinary free cortisol and dopamine and 
plasma total ghrelin accounted for 1/5 of the variability in global cognitive 
function.
LIMITATIONS: Drop-out rate.
CONCLUSIONS: Chronically sleep-deprived obese individuals exhibit substantial 
neurocognitive deficits that are partially reversible upon improvement of sleep 
in a non-pharmacological way. These findings have clinical implications for 
large segments of the US population.
TRAIL REGISTRATION: www.ClinicalTrials.gov NCT00261898. NIDDK protocol 
06-DK-0036.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084832
PMCID: PMC3903365
PMID: 24482677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


235. Ying Yong Sheng Tai Xue Bao. 2013 Oct;24(10):2814-20.

[Experiment precision and comprehensive environmental evaluation of regional 
wheat trials in rainfed regions of China].

[Article in Chinese]

Chang L(1), Han FX(2), Chai SX(3), Yue Y(4), Yang DL(2), Yang CG(3), Huang 
CX(5), Cheng HB(2).

Author information:
(1)Gansu Provincial Key Laboratory of Aridland Crop Science/College of Agronomy, 
Gansu Agricultural University, Lanzhou 730070, China. chang3258@126.com
(2)College of Life Science and Technology, Gansu Agricultural University, 
Lanzhou 730070, China.
(3)Gansu Provincial Key Laboratory of Aridland Crop Science/College of Agronomy, 
Gansu Agricultural University, Lanzhou 730070, China.
(4)Gansu Agro-technical Extension Station, Lanzhou 730020, China.
(5)College of Engineering, Gansu Agricultural University, Lanzhou 730070, China.

Based on the grain yield data of regional trials with 233 winter- and spring 
wheat cultivars (lines) in rainfed farmlands at 82 locations in four subregions 
of China in 2003-2009, this paper studied the experiment precision (EP), variety 
comparison precision (VCP), and testing-site discrimination ability and 
representativeness of national regional trials, and comprehensively evaluated 
the trial environment. The results showed that in one-location-one-year 
experiments, the average coefficient of variation (CV) and the relative least 
significant difference (RLSD) were 6.1% and 10.5%, respectively, and in 
multi-location-one-year experiments, the CV was all within 8.2%, and the CV and 
RLSD were mostly well controlled, indicating that the trials had a high 
precision. The testing-site discrimination ability was the highest in the 
northwest spring wheat subregion, but showed less difference in the other 
subregions. The testing-site representativeness was the best in the northeast 
spring wheat subregion, and the worst in the northwest spring wheat subregion. 
On the basis of the comprehensive consideration of the testing-site 
discrimination ability and representativeness, and by using the parameters of 
the environmental comprehensive assessment (r(g)h) of GGE model, it was shown 
that the proportion of the ideal trial locations for wheat in our rainfed 
farmlands was only 32.4%. Among the wheat production regions, the proportions of 
the ideal trial locations were in the order of northwest spring wheat subregion 
(40.9%) > northeast spring wheat subregion (33.3%) > Huang-Huai winter wheat 
subregion (30.4%) > north winter wheat subregion

PMID: 24483075 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. J Neurosurg Pediatr. 2014 Apr;13(4):462-70. doi: 10.3171/2013.12.PEDS13382.
