DOI: 10.1177/1941738113480936
PMCID: PMC3658408
PMID: 24427393

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no potential conflicts of 
interest in the development and publication of this manuscript.


74. Indian J Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2013 Apr;65(2):181-3. doi: 
10.1007/s12070-012-0555-0. Epub 2012 Aug 21.

The role of thyroidectomy in advanced laryngeal and pharyngolaryngeal carcinoma.

Dequanter D(1), Shahla M(2), Paulus P(2), Vercruysse N(2), Lothaire P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, CHU Charleroi, 706 Rue de Gozée, 6110 Montigny le 
Tilleul, Belgium ; Maandal 6, 1652 Alsemberg, Belgium.
(2)Department of Surgery, CHU Charleroi, 706 Rue de Gozée, 6110 Montigny le 
Tilleul, Belgium.

Total thyroidectomy or hemithyroidectomy together with a total laryngectomy (TL) 
or pharyngo laryngectomy (TPL) for (pharyngo) laryngeal cancer often renders the 
patient hypothyroid and commits them to life-long thyroid hormone replacement. 
To determine the incidence of thyroid gland invasion (TG) in patients undergoing 
TL or TPL with total thyroidectomy (TThy) or lobectomy (HThy) for advanced 
laryngeal or hypo pharyngeal cancer and to assess predicative factors. 
Retrospective analysis of 35 patients from 2007 to 2010. Specimens were examined 
to determine the incidence of TG invasion and relevant predicative factors such 
as histological grade and subglottic extension. Pre-operative imaging was 
reviewed to assess for radiological evidence of TG invasion. TL and TThy was 
performed in 13 patients. TL and HThy was performed in four patients and TPL and 
TThy was performed in 18 patients. Surgery was performed for primary and 
recurrent cancer in 29 and six patients, respectively. Histological evidence of 
invasion of the TG was found in three patients. Relationship was found between 
TG invasion and subsite of primary carcinoma and the presence of subglottic 
extension. No relationship was found between TG invasion and patient's sex, 
stage of primary disease at surgery, degree of differentiation. In addition, no 
significant relationship was found between the presence of TG invasion and 
recurrent disease. Invasion of the TG in patients undergoing a TL or TPL is a 
rare event and limits the need for a TTHy in most cases.

DOI: 10.1007/s12070-012-0555-0
PMCID: PMC3649025
PMID: 24427562


75. N Engl J Med. 2014 Feb 6;370(6):498-501. doi: 10.1056/NEJMp1315214. Epub 2014
 Jan 15.

Transforming lives, enhancing communities--innovations in global mental health.

Patel V(1), Saxena S.

Author information:
(1)From the London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London (V.P.); the 
Public Health Foundation of India, New Delhi, and the Sangath Centre, Goa - both 
in India (V.P.); and the Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse, World 
Health Organization, Geneva (S.S.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMp1315214
PMID: 24428425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


76. BMC Public Health. 2014 Jan 15;14:38. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-38.

Cost-utility analysis of a randomized controlled weight loss trial among 
lactating overweight/obese women.

Hagberg LA(1), Brekke HK, Bertz F, Winkvist A.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Care Science, Örebro University Hospital, Sweden and Örebro 
University, P,O,Box 1324, SE-701 13 Örebro, Sweden. lars.hagberg@orebroll.se.

BACKGROUND: Overweight and obesity among young, adult women are increasing 
problems in Sweden as in many other countries. The postpartum period may be a 
good opportunity to improve eating habits and lose weight in a sustainable 
manner. The aim was to make a cost-utility analysis of a dietary behavior 
modification treatment alongside usual care, compared to usual care alone, among 
lactating overweight and obese women.
METHODS: This study was a cost-utility analysis based on a randomized controlled 
and longitudinal clinical diet intervention. Between 2007-2010, 68 women living 
in Sweden were, after baseline measurement at 8-12 weeks postpartum, randomly 
assigned to a 12-week dietary behavior modification treatment or control group. 
Inclusion criteria were: self-reported pre-pregnancy body mass index (BMI) 
25-35 kg/m2, non-smoker, singleton term delivery, birth weight > 2500 g, 
intention to breastfeed for 6 mo and no diseases (mother and child). The women 
in the intervention group received 1.5 hour of individual counseling at study 
start and 1 hour at follow-up home visits after 6 weeks of intervention, with 
support through cell phone text messages every two wk. Dietary intervention 
aimed to reduce dietary intake by 500 kcal/day. The control group received usual 
care. Weight results have previously been reported. Here we report on analyses 
carried out during 2012-2013 of cost per quality adjusted life years (QALY), 
based on the changes in quality of life measured by EQ-5D-3 L and SF-6D. 
Likelihood of cost-effectiveness was calculated using Net Monetary Benefit 
method.
RESULTS: Based on conservative assumptions of no remaining effect after 1 year 
follow-up, the diet intervention was cost-effective. Costs per gained QALY were 
8 643 - 9 758 USD. The likelihood for cost-effectiveness, considering a 
willingness to pay 50 000 USD for a QALY, was 87-93%.
CONCLUSIONS: The diet intervention is cost-effective.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: NCT01343238 Registered April 
27, 2011.The regional ethics committee in Gothenburg, Sweden, approved the study 
on November 15, 2006.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-38
PMCID: PMC3910238
PMID: 24428802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


77. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2014 Feb;18(2):128-33. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.13.0360.

Chronic inactive pulmonary tuberculosis and treatment sequelae: chest 
radiographic features.

Hicks A(1), Muthukumarasamy S(2), Maxwell D(3), Howlett D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine and Allergy, Kings College London, London, 
UK.
(2)Department of Radiology, Eastbourne District General Hospital, Eastbourne, 
UK.
(3)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Eastbourne District General Hospital, 
Eastbourne, UK.

The chest radiograph (CXR) is a key initial tool in the diagnosis of many lung 
conditions, including pulmonary tuberculosis (TB). With proper use of 
anti-tuberculosis drugs, TB can be treated effectively and many CXR changes are 
limited. However, anti-tuberculosis drugs have not always been available, and in 
some cases they have not been started early in the disease process. The 
infection has then been able to take hold and cause significant radiologically 
visible damage, such as calcification and fibrosis. Before the use of 
anti-tuberculosis drugs, a variety of surgical techniques were employed to 
control pulmonary infection, including plombage, oleothorax, phrenic nerve crush 
and thoracoplasty. Each of these led to distinctive CXR features. This article 
sets out to describe the CXR features of chronic disease and surgical 
treatments, as their increasing rarity with the passage of time has meant that 
they can be misinterpreted. However, with increasing life expectancy and the 
revival of surgery due to the development of anti-tuberculosis drug resistance, 
the correct interpretation of these CXR changes is still of importance.

DOI: 10.5588/ijtld.13.0360
PMID: 24429302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


78. Biol Lett. 2014 Jan 15;10(1):20130889. doi: 10.1098/rsbl.2013.0889. Print
2014  Jan.

Migration and stress during reproduction govern telomere dynamics in a seabird.

Schultner J(1), Moe B, Chastel O, Bech C, Kitaysky AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, , 
Natural Sciences Building, Trondheim 7491, Norway.

Changes in telomere length are believed to reflect changes in physiological 
state and life expectancy in animals. However, much remains unknown about the 
determinants of telomere dynamics in wild populations, and specifically the 
influence of conditions during highly mobile life-history stages, for example 
migration. We tested whether telomere dynamics were associated with migratory 
behaviour and/or with stress during reproduction in free-living seabirds. We 
induced short-term stress during reproduction in chick-rearing, black-legged 
kittiwakes (Rissa tridactyla), tracked winter migration with geolocators and 
measured telomere length before and after winter migration. We found that time 
spent at wintering grounds correlated with reduced telomere loss, while stress 
during reproduction accelerated telomere shortening. Our results suggest that 
different life-history stages interact to influence telomere length, and that 
migratory patterns may be important determinants of variation in an individual's 
telomere dynamics.

DOI: 10.1098/rsbl.2013.0889
PMCID: PMC3917333
PMID: 24429681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


79. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2013;60(12):738-44.

[Future prediction of health expectancy considering the target of Health Japan 
21 (the second term)].

[Article in Japanese]

Hashimoto S(1), Kawado M, Yamada H, Seko R, Murakami Y, Hayakawa T, Hayashi M, 
Kato M, Noda T, Ojima T, Tomata Y, Tsuji I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene, Fujita Health University School of Medicine.

OBJECTIVES: We attempted to predict health expectancy in Japan for the period 
between 2011 and 2020, considering the target of Health Japan 21 (the second 
term) that future gains in health expectancy be larger than in life expectancy.
METHODS: We used data from Japanese national statistics. Health expectancy 
between 2011 and 2020 was predicted using the Sullivan method under the 
assumption that future mortality was equal to the estimate in Population 
Projections for Japan (January 2012), and under three scenarios of future 
prevalence of bad health status.
RESULTS: The numbers of expected years without activity limitation at birth for 
males and females in 2020 were predicted as 71.2 and 74.3, respectively, under 
the scenario that prevalence of activity limitation was constant since 2010; 
71.4 and 74.5 under the scenario that the prevalence followed the recent trend; 
and 71.7 and 74.9 under the scenario that the prevalence decreased with such a 
rate that future gains in health expectancy were equal to in life expectancy. 
The rate of decrease in the prevalence in 2010-2020 in the last scenario was 
estimated to be 0.95 in males and 0.96 in females. The numbers of expected years 
with subjective well-being at birth in 2020 predicted under above three 
scenarios were between 69.5 and 71.2 in males and between 72.9 and 74.6 in 
females. The rate of decrease in the last scenario was estimated to be 0.96 in 
males and 0.97 in females. The numbers of expected years without care needs at 
age 65 in 2020 predicted under above three scenarios were between 18.0-18.2 in 
males and between 21.2-21.5 in females. The rate of decrease in the last 
scenario was estimated to be 0.90 in males and 0.91 in females.
CONCLUSION: The health expectancy in 2011-2020 was predicted under some 
scenarios of future prevalence of bad health status. The rate of decrease in the 
future prevalence of bad health status was estimated with a view to the 
accomplishment of the target of Health Japan 21 (the second term).

PMID: 24429735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


80. Lifetime Data Anal. 2014 Oct;20(4):563-83. doi: 10.1007/s10985-013-9288-y.
Epub  2014 Jan 16.

Joint modeling approach for semicompeting risks data with missing nonterminal 
event status.

Hu C(1), Tsodikov A.

Author information:
(1)Radiation Therapy Oncology Group (RTOG) Statistical Center, 1818 Market 
Street, Suite 1600, Philadelphia, PA , 19103, USA, chu@acr.org.

Semicompeting risks data, where a subject may experience sequential non-terminal 
and terminal events, and the terminal event may censor the non-terminal event 
but not vice versa, are widely available in many biomedical studies. We consider 
the situation when a proportion of subjects' non-terminal events is missing, 
such that the observed data become a mixture of "true" semicompeting risks data 
and partially observed terminal event only data. An illness-death multistate 
model with proportional hazards assumptions is proposed to study the 
relationship between non-terminal and terminal events, and provide 
covariate-specific global and local association measures. Maximum likelihood 
estimation based on semiparametric regression analysis is used for statistical 
inference, and asymptotic properties of proposed estimators are studied using 
empirical process and martingale arguments. We illustrate the proposed method 
with simulation studies and data analysis of a follicular cell lymphoma study.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-013-9288-y
PMCID: PMC4101077
PMID: 24430204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


81. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2014 Jan 15;96(2):119-26. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.L.01736.

Economic benefit to society at large of total knee arthroplasty in younger 
patients: a Markov analysis.

Bedair H(1), Cha TD(1), Hansen VJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, Massachusetts General Hospital, 55 Fruit Street, 
Yawkey Suite 3B, Boston, MA 02114. E-mail address for H. Bedair: 
hbedair@gmail.com.
(2)Harris Orthopaedics Lab, Massachusetts General Hospital, 55 Fruit Street, GRJ 
1121, Boston, MA 02114.

BACKGROUND: To our knowledge, the economic implications of total knee 
arthroplasty to society at large have not been assessed with specific 
consideration of the young working population with osteoarthritis of the knee. 
The goal of the present study was to use a Markov analysis to estimate the 
overall average cost to society--in terms of medical expenses and lost wages--of 
delaying early total knee arthroplasty in favor of nonoperative treatment for 
end-stage knee osteoarthritis in a hypothetical fifty-year-old patient.
METHODS: A Markov state-transition decision model was constructed to compare the 
overall average cost over thirty years of total knee arthroplasty with the 
average thirty-year cost of nonoperative treatment for a fifty-year-old patient 
with end-stage osteoarthritis. Earned income, lost wages, and direct medical 
costs related to nonoperative treatment and to total knee arthroplasty, 
including revisions and complications, were considered. A sensitivity analysis 
was performed to assess the effect that variation of key model parameters had on 
the overall outcome of the model.
RESULTS: This Markov model favored early total knee arthroplasty over 
nonoperative treatment across all plausible values for most input parameters 
assessed during one-way sensitivity analysis. Total knee arthroplasty was more 
expensive during the first 3.5 years because of higher initial costs, but over 
thirty years the cost benefit of total knee arthroplasty was $69,800 (2012 U.S. 
dollars). Only when lost wages were <17.7 equivalent work days per year for 
patients treated nonoperatively or when the rate of returning to work after 
total knee arthroplasty was <81% did the model favor nonoperative treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of the current study demonstrated that the total 
economic cost to society for treatment of severe knee osteoarthritis in a 
relatively young working person is markedly lower with total knee arthroplasty 
than it is with nonoperative treatment. The increasing financial restrictions on 
health-care providers in the U.S. necessitate careful consideration of the 
economic impact of different treatment options from the societal perspective.
CLINICAL RELEVANCE: The results of this model illustrate the need to account for 
the implications of treatment choices, not only at the individual patient level, 
but also for society at large. When deciding among available treatment options, 
patients, physicians, payers, and policymakers must consider individual 
treatment cost and effectiveness but also should account for future potential 
earnings generated when a treatment may restore a patient's ability to 
contribute to society.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.L.01736
PMID: 24430411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


82. J Indian Prosthodont Soc. 2013 Sep;13(3):155-64. doi:
10.1007/s13191-012-0143-8.  Epub 2012 Jul 6.

Resilient liners: a review.

Rodrigues S(1), Shenoy V(1), Shetty T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Prosthodontics, Manipal College of Dental Sciences, Manipal 
University, Mangalore, 575001 India.

Resilient liners when used intelligently are an excellent adjunct in removable 
prosthodontics. However, currently they have to be best considered as temporary 
expedients because none of the advocated permanent liners have life expectancy 
comparable to resin denture base. This article reviews the literature regarding 
their composition, functions, gelation characteristics, bond strength and 
influence on denture bases. It also presents their drawbacks and attempts made 
to extend their longevity. A Medline search was completed for the period from 
1986 to 2007, along with a manual search, to identify pertinent English 
peer-reviewed articles and textbooks.

DOI: 10.1007/s13191-012-0143-8
PMCID: PMC3732695
PMID: 24431729


83. Am J Public Health. 2014 Nov;104(11):2156-62. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301565. 
Epub 2014 Jan 16.

Racial disparities in life expectancy in Brazil: challenges from a multiracial 
society.

Chiavegatto Filho AD(1), Beltrán-Sánchez H, Kawachi I.

Author information:
(1)Alexandre Dias Porto Chiavegatto Filho is with the Department of 
Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, 
Brazil, and the Department of Society, Human Development, and Health, Harvard 
School of Public Health, Boston, MA. Hiram Beltrán-Sánchez is with the Center 
for Population and Development Studies, Harvard School of Public Health. Ichiro 
Kawachi is with the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard School 
of Public Health.

OBJECTIVES: We calculated life expectancy at birth for Whites, Blacks, and mixed 
races in Brazil, and decomposed the differences by causes of death.
METHODS: We used Ministry of Health death records and 2010 Census population 
data (190,755,799 residents and 1,136,947 deaths). We applied the Arriaga 
methodology to calculate decomposition of life expectancy by cause of death. We 
performed sensitivity analyses for underreporting of deaths, missing data, and 
numerator-denominator bias.
RESULTS: Using standard life table methods, female life expectancy was highest 
for mixed races (78.80 years), followed by Whites (77.54 years), then Blacks 
(76.32 years). Male life expectancy was highest for Whites (71.10 years) 
followed closely by mixed races (71.08 years), and lower for Blacks (70.11 
years). Homicides contributed the most to the relative life expectancy increase 
for Whites, and cancer decreased the gap. After adjustment for underreporting, 
missing data, and numerator-denominator bias, life expectancy was higher for 
Whites than for Blacks and mixed races.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite wide socioeconomic differences between Whites and mixed 
races, standard life table methods showed that mixed races had higher life 
expectancy than Whites for women, and similar for men. With the increase of 
multiracial populations, measuring racial disparities in life expectancy will be 
a fast-growing challenge.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301565
PMCID: PMC4202938
PMID: 24432884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


84. Fungal Biol. 2014 Jan;118(1):1-11. doi: 10.1016/j.funbio.2013.10.003. Epub
2013  Oct 31.

Stipe wall extension of Flammulina velutipes could be induced by an 
expansin-like protein from Helix aspersa.

Fang H(1), Zhang W(1), Niu X(1), Liu Z(1), Lu C(1), Wei H(1), Yuan S(2).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Microbes and Microbial Functional Genomics, 
Jiangsu Engineering and Technology Research Center for Industrialization of 
Microbial Resources, College of Life Science, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 
210023, PR China.
(2)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Microbes and Microbial Functional Genomics, 
Jiangsu Engineering and Technology Research Center for Industrialization of 
Microbial Resources, College of Life Science, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 
210023, PR China. Electronic address: yuansheng@njnu.edu.cn.

Expansin proteins extend plant cell walls by a hydrolysis-free process that 
disrupts hydrogen bonding between cell wall polysaccharides. However, it is 
unknown if this mechanism is operative in mushrooms. Herein we report that the 
native wall extension activity was located exclusively in the 10 mm apical 
region of 30 mm Flammulina velutipes stipes. The elongation growth was 
restricted also to the 9 mm apical region of the stipes where the elongation 
growth of the 1st millimetre was 40-fold greater than that of the 5th 
millimetre. Therefore, the wall extension activity represents elongation growth 
of the stipe. The low concentration of expansin-like protein in F. velutipes 
stipes prevented its isolation. However, we purified an expansin-like protein 
from snail stomach juice which reconstituted heat-inactivated stipe wall 
extension without hydrolytic activity. So the previous hypotheses that stipe 
wall extension was resulted from hydrolysis of wall polymers by enzymes or 
disruption of hydrogen bonding of wall polymers exclusively by turgor pressure 
are challenged. We suggest that stipe wall extension may be mediated by 
endogenous expansin-like proteins that facilitate cell wall polymer slippage by 
disrupting noncovalent bonding between glucan chains or chitin chains.

Copyright © 2013 The British Mycological Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.funbio.2013.10.003
PMID: 24433673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


85. Glob Health Action. 2014 Jan 9;7:22803. doi: 10.3402/gha.v7.22803.
eCollection  2014.

Reorienting women's health in low- and middle-income countries: the case of 
depression and Type 2 diabetes.

Mendenhall E(1), Weaver LJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Science, Technology, and International Affairs Program, School of Foreign 
Service, Georgetown University, Washington, DC, USA; em1061@georgetown.edu.
(2)Department of Anthropology, Emory University, Atlanta, Georgia, USA.

Women's health in low- and middle-income countries (LMICs) has historically 
focused on sexual and reproductive health. However, understanding how women 
acquire, experience, and treat non-reproductive health conditions, such as 
non-communicable diseases, has become a fundamental public health concern. 
Special attention to the social determinants of LMIC women's health can provide 
socially and culturally relevant knowledge for implementation of policies and 
programs for women increasingly confronting these 'New Challenge Diseases'. This 
article uses the example of depression and Type 2 diabetes comorbidity to 
illustrate how attending to the social determinants of mental and physical 
health beyond the reproductive years contributes to a more holistic agenda for 
women's health. For instance, we must address the plurality of experiences that 
shape women's health from social determinants of depression, such as gendered 
subjugation within the home and public sphere, to the structural determinants of 
obesity and diabetes, such as poor access to healthy foods and health care. 
Attending to the complexities of health and social well-being beyond the 
reproductive years helps the women's global health agenda capture the full 
spectrum of health concerns, particularly the chronic and non-communicable 
conditions that emerge as life expectancy increases.

DOI: 10.3402/gha.v7.22803
PMCID: PMC3888885
PMID: 24433943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


86. Health Syst Transit. 2013;15(8):1-162.

Norway: health system review.

Ringard Å(1), Sagan A(2), Sperre Saunes I(1), Lindahl AK(1).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Knowledge Centre for the Health Services.
(2)European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies, LSE Health.

Norways five million inhabitants are spread over nearly four hundred thousand 
square kilometres, making it one of the most sparsely populated countries in 
Europe. It has enjoyed several decades of high growth, following the start of 
oil production in early 1970s, and is now one of the richest countries per head 
in the world. Overall, Norways population enjoys good health status; life 
expectancy of 81.53 years is above the EU average of 80.14, and the gap between 
overall life expectancy and healthy life years is around half the of EU average. 
The health care system is semi decentralized. The responsibility for specialist 
care lies with the state (administered by four Regional Health Authorities) and 
the municipalities are responsible for primary care. Although health care 
expenditure is only 9.4% of Norways GDP (placing it on the 16th place in the WHO 
European region), given Norways very high value of GDP per capita, its health 
expenditure per head is higher than in most countries. Public sources account 
for over 85% of total health expenditure; the majority of private health 
financing comes from households out-of-pocket payments.The number of 
practitioners in most health personnel groups, including physicians and nurses, 
has been increasing in the last few decades and the number of health care 
personnel per 100 000 inhabitants is high compared to other EU countries. 
However, long waiting times for elective care continue to be a problem and are 
cause of dissatisfaction among the patients. The focus of health care reforms 
has seen shifts over the past four decades. During the 1970s the focus was on 
equality and increasing geographical access to health care services; during the 
1980s reforms aimed at achieving cost containment and decentralizing health care 
services; during the 1990s the focus was on efficiency. Since the beginning of 
the millennium the emphasis has been given to structural changes in the delivery 
and organization of health care and to policies intended to empower patients and 
users. The past few years have seen efforts to improve coordination between 
health care providers, as well as an increased attention towards quality of care 
and patient safety issues. Overall, comparing mortality rates amenable to 
medical intervention suggests that Norway is among the better performing 
European countries. Despite having one of the highest densities of physicians in 
Europe, though, Norway still struggles to ensure geographical and social equity 
in access to health care.

World Health Organization 2013 (acting as the host organization for, and 
secretariat of, the European Observatory on Health Systems and Policies).

PMID: 24434287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


87. Dermatology. 2014;228(2):166-71. doi: 10.1159/000357221. Epub 2014 Jan 9.

Randomized, within-patient, clinical trial comparing fluorine-synthetic fiber 
socks with standard cotton socks in improving plantar pustulosis.

Cazzaniga S(1), Lo Scocco G, Schincaglia E, Mercuri SR, Chimenti S, Saraceno R, 
Naldi L.

Author information:
(1)Centro Studi GISED, Fondazione per la Ricerca Ospedale Maggiore, Bergamo, 
Italy.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Rubbing the skin may influence the persistence of pustulosis 
over time. The aim of this study was to assess the impact of a new fabric made 
with fluorine-synthetic fiber in improving plantar pustulosis.
METHODS: A total of 17 patients were randomized to receive on one side a sock 
made of fluorine-synthetic fiber and on the other a sock made of cotton fabric 
for 4 weeks. The main outcome was the percentage reduction of lesional area at 
week 4.
RESULTS: The median lesion reduction at week 4 was 42.6% in the 
fluorine-synthetic fiber arm and 2.7% in the cotton arm (p = 0.148). Among 
secondary outcomes, the overall reduction over time in the treated areas was 
significantly in favor of the fluorine-synthetic fiber arm (p = 0.045) as well 
as the perception of the disease by the patient (p = 0.025).
CONCLUSION: Despite the fact that the primary outcome was not reached, there was 
a tangible reduction in the extension of the treated areas and in the perception 
of the disease by the patient.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000357221
PMID: 24434748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


88. Math Biosci. 2014 Feb;248:128-39. doi: 10.1016/j.mbs.2013.12.009. Epub 2014
Jan  14.

Analysis of an asymmetric two-strain dengue model.

Kooi BW(1), Aguiar M(2), Stollenwerk N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Theoretical Biology, VU University, Faculty of Earth and Life 
Sciences, De Boelelaan 1087, NL 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic 
address: bob.kooi@vu.nl.
(2)Centro de Matemática e Aplicações Fundamentais da Universidade de Lisboa, 
Portugal.

In this paper we analyse a two-strain compartmental dengue fever model that 
allows us to study the behaviour of a Dengue fever epidemic. Dengue fever is the 
most common mosquito-borne viral disease of humans that in recent years has 
become a major international public health concern. The model is an extension of 
the classical compartmental susceptible-infected-recovered (SIR) model where the 
exchange between the compartments is described by ordinary differential 
equations (ode). Two-strains of the virus exist so that a primary infection with 
one strain and secondary infection by the other strain can occur. There is 
life-long immunity to the primary infection strain, temporary cross-immunity and 
after the secondary infection followed by life-long immunity, to the secondary 
infection strains. Newborns are assumed susceptible. Antibody Dependent 
Enhancement (ade) is a mechanism where the pre-existing antibodies to the 
previous dengue infection do not neutralize but rather enhance replication of 
the secondary strain. In the previously studied models the two strains are 
identical with respect to their epidemiological functioning: that is the 
epidemiological process parameters of the two strains were assumed equal. As a 
result the mathematical model possesses a mathematical symmetry property. In 
this manuscript we study a variant with epidemiological asymmetry between the 
strains: the force of infection rates differ while all other epidemiological 
parameters are equal. Comparison with the results for the epidemiologically 
symmetric model gives insight into its robustness. Numerical bifurcation 
analysis and simulation techniques including Lyapunov exponent calculation will 
be used to study the long-term dynamical behaviour of the model. For the single 
strain system stable endemic equilibria exist and for the two-strain system 
endemic equilibria, periodic solutions and also chaotic behaviour.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mbs.2013.12.009
PMID: 24434818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


89. Gerontology. 2014;60(3):229-38. doi: 10.1159/000356020. Epub 2014 Jan 16.

Effect of different immunosuppressive drugs on immune cells from young and old 
healthy persons.

Welzl K(1), Kern G, Mayer G, Weinberger B, Säemann MD, Sturm G, 
Grubeck-Loebenstein B, Koppelstaetter C.

Author information:
(1)Immunology Division, Research Institute of Biomedical Aging Research, 
University of Innsbruck, Innsbruck, Austria.

BACKGROUND: Life expectancy, as well as the average age of patients undergoing 
solid organ transplantation, increases constantly. Consequently, 
immunosuppressive therapy is no longer limited to young organ recipients.
OBJECTIVE: Here, we investigate how different types of immunosuppressive 
therapy, namely the calcineurin inhibitors cyclosporin A and tacrolimus, as well 
as the mTOR inhibitor rapamycin, affect the function of immune cells in young 
and elderly persons.
METHODS: Proliferation, cell viability, cytokine production (IL-2, IFN-γ), H2O2 
production and telomere length of phytohemagglutinin (PHA)-stimulated human 
peripheral blood mononuclear cells (PBMCs) of young (n = 13; median age 27 
years) and old (n = 19; median age 71 years) healthy donors were analyzed.
RESULTS: The inhibition of proliferation was dampened in PBMCs from elderly 
donors, especially after incubation with rapamycin. All three immunosuppressive 
drugs inhibited the production of IL-2 equally well, whereas the production of 
IFN-γ was less well inhibited by rapamycin. Both calcineurin inhibitors 
increased H2O2 concentrations after stimulation with PHA and led to a shortening 
of telomeres in PBMCs from young and old individuals. Rapamycin had only minor 
effects on H2O2 production and telomere length.
CONCLUSION: Our results demonstrate that the effects of immunosuppressive drugs 
on PBMCs differ between young and elderly persons. Calcineurin inhibitors 
compared to rapamycin have a more pronounced prosenescence effect. These data 
indicate that specific treatment regimens for the elderly might therefore be 
considered.

DOI: 10.1159/000356020
PMID: 24434865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


90. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2014 Mar;132(3):310-8. doi:
10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2013.7639.

Development of a preference-based index from the National Eye Institute Visual 
Function Questionnaire-25.

Rentz AM(1), Kowalski JW(2), Walt JG(2), Hays RD(3), Brazier JE(4), Yu R(1), Lee 
P(5), Bressler N(6), Revicki DA(1).

Author information:
(1)Evidera, Bethesda, Maryland.
(2)Allergan Inc, Irvine, California.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of California, Los Angeles.
(4)School of Health and Related Research, Sheffield University, Sheffield, 
England.
(5)Duke University, Durham, North Carolina6now with Department of Ophthalmology 
and Visual Sciences, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor.
(6)Retina Division, Wilmer Eye Institute, Department of Ophthalmology, Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

IMPORTANCE: Understanding how individuals value health states is central to 
patient-centered care and to health policy decision making. Generic 
preference-based measures of health may not effectively capture the impact of 
ocular diseases. Recently, 6 items from the National Eye Institute Visual 
Function Questionnaire-25 were used to develop the Visual Function 
Questionnaire-Utility Index health state classification, which defines visual 
function health states.
OBJECTIVE: To describe elicitation of preferences for health states generated 
from the Visual Function Questionnaire-Utility Index health state classification 
and development of an algorithm to estimate health preference scores for any 
health state.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Nonintervention, cross-sectional study of the 
general community in 4 countries (Australia, Canada, United Kingdom, and United 
States). A total of 607 adult participants were recruited from local newspaper 
advertisements. In the United Kingdom, an existing database of participants from 
previous studies was used for recruitment.
INTERVENTIONS: Eight of 15,625 possible health states from the Visual Function 
Questionnaire-Utility Index were valued using time trade-off technique.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: A θ severity score was calculated for Visual 
Function Questionnaire-Utility Index-defined health states using item response 
theory analysis. Regression models were then used to develop an algorithm to 
assign health state preference values for all potential health states defined by 
the Visual Function Questionnaire-Utility Index.
RESULTS: Health state preference values for the 8 states ranged from a mean (SD) 
of 0.343 (0.395) to 0.956 (0.124). As expected, preference values declined with 
worsening visual function. Results indicate that the Visual Function 
Questionnaire-Utility Index describes states that participants view as spanning 
most of the continuum from full health to dead.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Visual Function Questionnaire-Utility Index health 
state classification produces health preference scores that can be estimated in 
vision-related studies that include the National Eye Institute Visual Function 
Questionnaire-25. These preference scores may be of value for estimating 
utilities in economic and health policy analyses.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2013.7639
PMCID: PMC4357476
PMID: 24435696 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest Ms. Rentz, Ms. Yu, and Dr. 
Revicki are employed by United BioSource Corporation (UBC), which provides 
consulting and other research services to pharmaceutical, device, government and 
non-government organizations. As UBC employees, they work with a variety of 
companies and organizations and are expressly prohibited from receiving any 
payment or honoraria directly from these organizations for services rendered. 
Dr. Kowalski and Mr. Walt are employees of Allergan, Inc. Dr. Hays received 
financial support for this study from Allergan, Inc., the UCLA Resource Center 
for Minority Aging Research Center for Health Improvement in Minority Elderly 
(NIH/NIA P30AG021684), UCLA DREW Project EXPORT (NCMHD 2P20MD000182), and the 
UCLA Older Americans Independence Center (NIH/NIA P30AG028748). Dr. Brazier had 
received payment from Allergan, Inc., as a consultant for this study. Dr. Lee is 
currently a consultant for Pfizer, Genentech, Quorum Consulting, and Novartis 
and from March 2010–March 2011 for Allergan; he has in the last 3 years received 
research grants from Pfizer. He has a proprietary interest in Merck, 
GlaxoSmithKline, and Vitaspring Health Technologies. Dr. Bressler’s employer, 
the Johns Hopkins University (JHU), but not Dr. Bressler, received funding from 
Allergan for this project; the terms of this project are negotiated and 
administered by JHU’s Office of Research Administration. Under JHU’s policy, 
support for the costs of research, administered by the institution, does not 
constitute a financial conflict of interest.


91. Lifetime Data Anal. 2015 Jan;21(1):75-96. doi: 10.1007/s10985-013-9289-x.
Epub  2014 Jan 17.

Conditional quantile residual lifetime models for right censored data.

Lin C(1), Zhang L, Zhou Y.

Author information:
(1)Academy of Mathematics and Systems Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, No. 
55 Zhongguancun East Road, Haidian District, Beijing , 100190, China, 
lincunjie@amss.ac.cn.

Quantile residual lifetime function is a more comprehensive quantitative measure 
for residual lifetimes than the mean residual lifetime function. It also 
incorporates the median residual life function, which is less restrictive than 
the model based on the mean residual lifetime. In this study, we propose a 
semiparametric estimator of the conditional quantile residual lifetime under 
different covariate effects at a specified time point by the reinforcement of 
the auxiliary models. Two kind of test statistics are proposed to compare two 
quantile residual lifetimes at fixed time points. Asymptotic properties are also 
established and a revised bootstrap method is proposed to estimate the 
asymptotic variance of the estimator. Simulation studies are reported to assess 
the finite sample properties of the proposed estimator and the performance of 
test statistics in terms of type I error probabilities and powers at fixed time 
points. We also compare the proposed method with the method of Jung et al. 
(Biometrics 65:1203-1212, 2009) through simulation studies. The proposed methods 
are applied to HIV data and some interesting results are presented.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-013-9289-x
PMID: 24435818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


92. BMJ Open. 2014 Jan 15;4(1):e004105. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-004105.

Early psychosocial intervention in Alzheimer's disease: cost utility evaluation 
alongside the Danish Alzheimer's Intervention Study (DAISY).

Søgaard R(1), Sørensen J, Waldorff FB, Eckermann A, Buss DV, Phung KT, Waldemar 
G; DAISY Study Investigators.

Collaborators: Hansen AM, Christensen J, Jensen J, Refslund M, Aagaard B, Lund 
P, Petersen IL, Andersen F, Drye D, Petersen L, Froelund B, Korbo L, Holm E, 
Luedorff K, Lassen M, Laugesen L, Jensen T, Skausig OB, Joergensen LM, Sanders 
S, Moe C, Lauridsen I, Klysner R, Feilberg J, Eckermann A, Rishoej S, Buus DV, 
Soerensen LV, Johannsen P.

Author information:
(1)CAST-Centre for Applied Health Services Research, University of Southern 
Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost utility of early psychosocial intervention for 
patients with Alzheimer's disease and their primary caregivers.
DESIGN: Cost utility evaluation alongside a multicentre, randomised controlled 
trial with 3 years of follow-up.
SETTING: Primary care and memory clinics in five Danish districts.
PARTICIPANTS: 330 community-dwelling patients and their primary caregivers.
INTERVENTION: Psychosocial counselling and support lasting 8-12 months after 
diagnosis and follow-up at 3, 6, 12 and 36 months in the intervention group or 
follow-up only in the control group.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome measure was the cost of additional 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Costs were measured from a societal 
perspective, including the costs of healthcare, social care, informal care and 
production loss. QALYs were estimated separately for the patient and the 
caregiver before aggregation for the main analysis.
RESULTS: None of the observed cost and QALY measures were significantly 
different between the intervention and control groups, although a tendency was 
noted for psychosocial care leading to cost increases with informal care that 
was not outweighed by the tendency for cost savings with formal care. The 
probability of psychosocial intervention being cost-effective did not exceed 36% 
for any threshold value. The alternative scenario analysis showed that the 
probability of cost-effectiveness increased over the range of threshold values 
used if the cost perspective was restricted to formal healthcare.
CONCLUSIONS: A multifaceted, psychosocial intervention programme was found 
unlikely to be cost-effective from a societal perspective. The recommendation 
for practice in settings that are similar to the Danish setting is to provide 
follow-up with referral to available local support programmes when needed, and 
to restrict large multifaceted intervention programmes to patients and 
caregivers with special needs until further evidence for cost-effectiveness 
emerges.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: The study was registered in the Clinical Trial Database as 
ISRCTN74848736.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-004105
PMCID: PMC3902512
PMID: 24435893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


93. Med Decis Making. 2014 Apr;34(3):283-5. doi: 10.1177/0272989X13519863. Epub
2014  Jan 16.

The life table method of half cycle correction: getting it right.

Barendregt JJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Queensland, School of Population Health, Herston, Queensland, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2014 Apr;34(3):286-7.

Comment on
    Med Decis Making. 2013 Oct;33(7):961-70.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X13519863
PMID: 24436447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


94. Int J Angiol. 2013 Mar;22(1):9-12. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1333868.

Endovascular Treatment versus Open Repair for Abdominal Aortic Aneurysms: The 
Influence of Fitness in Decision Making.

Moulakakis KG(1), Dalainas I(1), Kakisis J(1), Mylonas S(1), Liapis CD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, "Attikon" University Hospital, Athens, 
Greece.

Two methods of repair are currently available for an abdominal aortic aneurysm 
(AAA), open aneurysm repair and endovascular aneurysm repair (EVAR). The 
decision making depends on the balance of risks and benefits. The treating 
physician must take into account the patient's life expectancy, the patient's 
fitness, the anatomic suitability that makes endovascular repair possible, and 
finally the patient's preference. The patient's fitness is an important variable 
predicting the outcome of AAA surgical reconstruction. The hypothesis is that 
the impact of risk factors upon perioperative mortality might differ between 
patients undergoing open repair and endovascular repair. The purpose of this 
review article is to investigate whether fitter patients with a large AAA 
benefit more from having endovascular rather than open repair. According to the 
available data, there is emerging evidence that patients at high medical risk 
for open repair may benefit from EVAR while in low risk patients with suitable 
anatomy for EVAR, both techniques have similar effects. There is rising evidence 
that a patient with ruptured AAA would benefit more from an endovascular 
procedure if eligible, and thus fitness in such emergencies is not the first 
priority but anatomical suitability for EVAR.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1333868
PMCID: PMC3699226
PMID: 24436578

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare no 
actual or potential conflict of interest in relation to this article.


95. Evid Based Spine Care J. 2013 Oct;4(2):96-104. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1357360.

Outcomes in adult scoliosis patients who undergo spinal fusion stopping at L5 
compared with extension to the sacrum.

Sardar ZM(1), Ouellet JA(1), Fischer DJ(2), Skelly AC(2).

Author information:
(1)McGill Scoliosis and Spine Centre, McGill University Health Centre, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.
(2)Spectrum Research, Inc., Tacoma, Washington, United States.

Study Design Systematic review. Study Rationale Adult scoliosis is a common 
disorder that is associated with significantly higher pain, functional 
impairment, and effect on quality of life than those without scoliosis. Surgical 
spinal fusion has led to quantifiable improvement in patient's quality of life. 
However, for patients undergoing long lumbar fusion, the decision to stop the 
fusion at L5 or to extend to S1, particularly if the L5-S1 disc is healthy, 
remains controversial. Objective The aim of the study is to evaluate if fusion 
stopping at L5 increases the comparative rates of revision, correction loss, 
and/or poor functional outcomes compared with extension to the sacrum in adult 
scoliosis patients who require spinal fusion surgery. Materials and Methods A 
systematic review of the literature was performed using PubMed, the National 
Guideline Clearinghouse Database and bibliographies of key articles that 
evaluated adult scoliosis patients who required spinal fusion surgery and 
compared outcomes for fusions to the sacrum versus stopping at L5. Articles were 
included on the basis of predetermined criteria and were appraised using a 
predefined quality-rating scheme. Results From 111 citations, 26 articles 
underwent full-text review, and 3 retrospective cohort studies met all inclusion 
and exclusion criteria. Revision rates in subjects who underwent spinal fusion 
to L5 (20.8-23.5%) were lower in two studies compared with those with fusion 
extending to the sacrum (19.0-58.3%). Studies that assessed deformity correction 
used different measures, making comparison across studies difficult. No 
significant differences were found in patient-reported functional outcomes 
across two studies that used different measures. Conclusion The limited data 
available suggest that differences in revision rates did not consistently reach 
statistical significance across studies that compared spinal fusion to L5 versus 
extension to sacrum in adult scoliosis patients.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1357360
PMCID: PMC3836950
PMID: 24436707

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures Jean Ouellet received no funding 
pertaining to this article. Funding not related to the current work includes the 
following: Consulting, Synthes; Teaching, AO Foundation; Fellowship support, AO 
Foundation; and Research grants, AO Foundation. Zeeshan Sardar has no conflicts 
of interest or funding sources to disclose.


96. J Neurol Surg B Skull Base. 2013 Oct;74(5):266-70. doi:
10.1055/s-0033-1347367.  Epub 2013 Jun 17.

Transposition of the Pterygopalatine Fossa during Endoscopic Endonasal 
Transpterygoid Approaches.

Pinheiro-Neto CD(1), Fernandez-Miranda JC(2), Prevedello DM(3), Carrau RL(4), 
Gardner PA(2), Snyderman CH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, The Ohio State University, Columbus, Ohio, USA.
(4)Department of Otolaryngology-Head & Neck Surgery, The Ohio State University 
Columbus, Ohio, United States.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA ; Department of Otolaryngology, University of 
Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, USA.

Introduction Complete or partial removal of the pterygoid process provides 
lateral extension of the endonasal corridor necessary to approach the Meckel 
cave, infrapetrous skull base, and medial infratemporal fossa. This paper 
provides the anatomical foundations for the endoscopic endonasal transpterygoid 
approach with preservation of all neurovascular structures inside the 
pterygopalatine fossa. Methods Eight endoscopic transpterygoid approaches were 
performed in fresh cadaveric specimens. In all dissections the vidian nerve and 
the periosteal sac enclosing the pterygopalatine fossa were preserved. Results 
We reliably transposed the pterygopalatine fossa to approach the Meckel cave, 
infrapetrous skull base, and medial infratemporal region, preserving the 
neurovascular structures inside the pterygopalatine fossa in all specimens. 
Conclusions The transposition of the pterygopalatine fossa neurovascular 
structures for endoscopic endonasal approaches to the skull base is an 
alternative technique that is both feasible and desirable. The transposition 
requires no additional technical skills but requires comprehensive knowledge of 
its anatomy. The anatomical preservation of the neurovascular structures is 
potentially beneficial to the quality of life of patients. Clinical studies are 
necessary to prove the real benefits of this technique.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1347367
PMCID: PMC3774828
PMID: 24436922


97. Nature. 2014 Jan 16;505(7483):283-5. doi: 10.1038/505283a.

Development: Time to leave GDP behind.

Costanza R, Kubiszewski I, Giovannini E, Lovins H, McGlade J, Pickett KE, 
Ragnarsdóttir K, Roberts D, De Vogli R, Wilkinson R.

Comment in
    Nature. 2014 Feb 20;506(7488):295.
    Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):40.
    Nature. 2014 Mar 6;507(7490):40.

DOI: 10.1038/505283a
PMID: 24436983 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


98. Soins Gerontol. 2013 Nov-Dec;(104):37-8.

[The admission of elderly people to intensive care].

[Article in French]

Garrouste-Orgeas M(1).

Author information:
(1)Service de réanimation médico-chirurgicale, Fondation Hôpital Saint Joseph, 
Paris, France. mgarrouste@hpsj.fr

The criteria for admitting elderly people to intensive care are dependent on a 
number of factors, relating to the patients, the organisation of the hospital 
and the characteristics of the intensive care staff.This article assesses the 
current situation in a context where longer life expectancy is resulting in an 
increase in the number of elderly patients.

PMID: 24437013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


99. Klin Med (Mosk). 2013;91(9):57-61.

[Autoimmune hepatitis].

[Article in Russian]

Shvarts VIa, Nogaller AM.

Autoimmune hepatitis (AH) is a chronic inflammatory immunodependent disease of 
the liver. Women are affected more frequently than men. The patients show 
clinical and morphological signs of chronic hepatitis, extrahepatic 
manifestations of immune disorders (autoimmune thyroiditis, non-specific 
ulcerative colitis, vitiligo, diabetes mellitus, etc.), readily respond to 
glucocorticoid therapy have elevated levels of ALA, gamma-globulins (especially 
IgG), serum ANA, SMA, LKM or SLA antibodies. Untreated AH promotes rapid 
development of liver cirrhosis with 90% 10-year lethality. AH is diagnosed by 
