and Control of Important Animal Infectious Diseases and Zoonoses Yangzhou, 
China.

The recent discovery of DNA methylation in the nematode T.spiralis may raise the 
possibility of using it as a potential model organism for epigenetic studies 
instead of C. elegans, which is deficient in this important epigenetic 
modification. In contrast to the free-living nematode C. elegans, T. spiralis is 
a parasitic worm that possesses a complicated life cycle and undergoes a complex 
developmental regulation of genes. We emphasize that the differential methylomes 
in the different life-history stages of T. spiralis can provide insight on how 
DNA methylation is triggered and regulated. In particular, we have demonstrated 
that DNA methylation is involved in the regulation of its parasitism-related 
genes. Further computational analyses indicated that the regulatory machinery 
for DNA methylation can also be found in the T. spiralis genome. By a logical 
extension of this point, we speculate that comprehensively addressing the 
epigenetic machinery of T. spiralis may help to understand epigenetics in 
invertebrates. Furthermore, considering the implication of epigenetics in 
metazoan parasitism, using T. spiralis as an epigenetic model organism may 
further contribute to drug development against metazoan parasites.

DOI: 10.3389/fphys.2013.00410
PMCID: PMC3887316
PMID: 24454291


169. J Geriatr Cardiol. 2013 Dec;10(4):369-76. doi: 
10.3969/j.issn.1671-5411.2013.04.011.

Heart failure with preserved ejection fraction.

Rigolli M(1), Whalley GA(2).

Author information:
(1)Awhina Health Campus, Waitakere Hospital, Waitemata District Health Board, 
Private Bag 93-503, Auckland, New Zealand ; Division of Cardiology, University 
of Verona, Ospedale Maggiore, Ple Stefani 1, 37126 Verona, Italy.
(2)Awhina Health Campus, Waitakere Hospital, Waitemata District Health Board, 
Private Bag 93-503, Auckland, New Zealand ; Faculty of Social and Health 
Sciences, Unitec Institute of Technology, Private Bag 92025, Auckland, New 
Zealand.

Progressive aging of the population and prolongation of life expectancy have led 
to the rising prevalence of heart failure (HF). Despite the improvements in 
medical therapy, the mortality rate of this condition has remained unacceptably 
high, becoming the primary cause of death in the elderly population. Almost half 
of patients with signs and symptoms of HF are found to have a nearly normal 
ejection fraction, which delineates a distinct clinical syndrome, known as HF 
with preserved ejection fraction (HF-PEF). While early research focused on the 
importance of diastolic dysfunction, more recent studies reported the 
pathophysiological complexity of the disease with multiple cardiovascular 
abnormalities contributing to its development and progression. HF-PEF is a 
challenging major health problem with yet no solution as there is no 
evidence-based treatment which improves clinical outcomes. This review 
summarizes the state of current knowledge on diagnosis, prognosis and treatment 
of HF-PEF, with particular insights on the pathological characteristics in the 
elderly population.

DOI: 10.3969/j.issn.1671-5411.2013.04.011
PMCID: PMC3888920
PMID: 24454331


170. Curr Gerontol Geriatr Res. 2013;2013:168482. doi: 10.1155/2013/168482. Epub
2013  Dec 24.

Health-related quality of life measures for physically active elderly in 
community exercise programs in catalonia: comparative analysis with sedentary 
people.

Fortuño-Godes J(1), Guerra-Balic M(2), Cabedo-Sanromà J(2).

Author information:
(1)Esport 3, 08001 Barcelona, Spain ; Facultad de Psicología, Ciencias de la 
Educación y del Deporte Blanquerna, Universidad Ramón Llull, Departamento de 
Ciencias de la Actividad Física y Deporte, 08022 Barcelona, Spain.
(2)Facultad de Psicología, Ciencias de la Educación y del Deporte Blanquerna, 
Universidad Ramón Llull, Departamento de Ciencias de la Actividad Física y 
Deporte, 08022 Barcelona, Spain.

Objective. To evaluate Health-Related Quality of Life (HRQoL), medication used, 
and Stock of Health Capital (SHC) in physically active elderly participants in 
Community Exercise Programs (CEPs) compared to a sedentary group. Methods. 
EuroQol standardized instrument was completed by physically active elderly (n = 
2,185) who participated in CEPs. Common items were compared to HRQoL data of 
1,874 sedentary elderly people, taken from the Catalan Health Survey 2006 
(CHS'06). Visual Analogue Scale (VAS) outcomes and medication used were assessed 
through parametric statistics. Dimensions of health conditions were compared, 
between sedentary people and physically active elderly participants in CEPs. SHC 
results were obtained combining the EuroQol scores and Life Expectancy (LE) 
values. An economic value of €34,858.70 was assigned to these years of LE. 
Results. Physically active subjects had better HRQoL values (75.36 in males and 
70.71 in females) than CHS'06 sedentary subjects (58.35 in males and 50.59 in 
females). Medication used was different between physically active subjects (1.89 
in males and 2.87 in females) and CHS'06 sedentary subjects (4.34 in males and 
4.21 in females). SHC data for physically active elderly (€465,988.31/QALY in 
males and €522,550.31/QALY in females) were higher than for CHS'06 sedentary 
subjects (€363,689.33/QALY in males and €346,615.91/QALY in females).

DOI: 10.1155/2013/168482
PMCID: PMC3884613
PMID: 24454357


171. Case Rep Med. 2013;2013:189796. doi: 10.1155/2013/189796. Epub 2013 Dec 19.

Primary percutaneous coronary intervention in a patient with haemophilia a.

Reddy SA(1), Hoole SP(1), Besser MW(1).

Author information:
(1)Papworth Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Papworth Everard, Cambridge CB23 3RE, 
UK.

Haemophilia A is a rare genetic condition leading to coagulation factor VIII 
deficiency and thus predisposing to bleeding diathesis. Due to advances in 
treatment, life expectancy of haemophilia A sufferers is increasing, and the 
incidence and prevalence of coronary artery disease are rising. There have been 
many reported cases of acute myocardial infarction in such patients, who 
subsequently undergo elective percutaneous coronary intervention. We present the 
case of a 55-year-old gentleman presenting with an acute anterior full-thickness 
myocardial infarction who required emergency primary percutaneous coronary 
intervention.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/189796
PMCID: PMC3880720
PMID: 24454390


172. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 15;9(1):e84156. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084156. 
eCollection 2014.

Lifespan and aggregate size variables in specifications of mortality or 
survivorship.

Epelbaum M(1).

Author information:
(1)Independent Multidisciplinary Scientist, Nashville, Tennessee, United States 
of America.

A specification of mortality or survivorship provides respective explicit 
details about mortality's or survivorship's relationships with one or more other 
variables (e.g., age, sex, etc.). Previous studies have discovered and analyzed 
diverse specifications of mortality or survivorship; these discoveries and 
analyses suggest that additional specifications of mortality or survivorship 
have yet to be discovered and analyzed. In consistency with previous research, 
multivariable limited powered polynomials regression analyses of mortality and 
survivorship of selected humans (Swedes, 1760-2008) and selected insects (caged 
medflies) show age-specific, historical-time-specific, 
environmental-context-specific, and sex-specific mortality and survivorship. 
These analyses also present discoveries of hitherto unknown lifespan-specific, 
contemporary-aggregate-size-specific, and lifespan-aggregate-size-specific 
mortality and survivorship. The results of this investigation and results of 
previous research help identify variables for inclusion in regression models of 
mortality or survivorship. Moreover, these results and results of previous 
research strengthen the suggestion that additional specifications of mortality 
or survivorship have yet to be discovered and analyzed, and they also suggest 
that specifications of mortality and survivorship indicate corresponding 
specifications of frailty and vitality. Furthermore, the present analyses reveal 
the usefulness of a multivariable limited powered polynomials regression 
model-building approach. This article shows that much has yet to be learned 
about specifications of mortality or survivorship of diverse kinds of 
individuals in diverse times and places.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0084156
PMCID: PMC3893093
PMID: 24454719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Author's patent US 8219600 
B2 and other potential patents. The author hereby confirms that these competing 
interests do not alter adherence to all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data 
and materials, as detailed online in the guide for authors.


173. ISRN Toxicol. 2013 Dec 26;2013:230763. doi: 10.1155/2013/230763. eCollection
 2013 Dec 26.

Reduced life expectancy model for effects of long term exposure on lethal 
toxicity with fish.

Verma V(1), Yu QJ(1), Connell DW(2).

Author information:
(1)Griffith School of Engineering, Griffith University, Nathan Campus, Brisbane, 
Queensland 4111, Australia.
(2)Griffith School of Environment, Griffith University, Nathan Campus, Brisbane, 
Queensland 4111, Australia.

A model based on the concept of reduction in life expectancy (RLE model) as a 
result of long term exposure to toxicant has been developed which has normal 
life expectancy (NLT) as a fixed limiting point for a species. The model is 
based on the equation (LC50 = a ln(LT50) + b) where a and b are constants. It 
was evaluated by plotting ln LT50 against LC50 with data on organic toxicants 
obtained from the scientific literature. Linear relationships between LC50 and 
ln LT50 were obtained and a Calculated NLT was derived from the plots. The 
Calculated NLT obtained was in good agreement with the Reported NLT obtained 
from the literature. Estimation of toxicity at any exposure time and 
concentration is possible using the model. The use of NLT as a reference point 
is important since it provides a data point independent of the toxicity data set 
and limits the data to the range where toxicity occurs. This novel approach, 
which represents a departure from Haber's rule, can be used to estimate long 
term toxicity from limited available acute toxicity data for fish exposed to 
organic biocides.

DOI: 10.1155/2013/230763
PMCID: PMC3888739
PMID: 24455314


174. South Asian J Cancer. 2013 Jan;2(1):50-2. doi: 10.4103/2278-330X.105897.

A physician's personal experience with breast cancer: An interview.

Lodh M(1), Das N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, Institute of Lab Medicine and Research, The 
Mission Hospital, Durgapur, West Bengal, India.
(2)Freelance Medical Writer, B12, Dronacharya Apartment, Mayur Vihar Extension, 
Delhi, India.

Dr Moushumi Lodh is a physician who was diagnosed with breast cancer in the year 
2009. In this interview, she speaks to childhood friend and freelance medical 
writer, Dr Natasha Das about her life with cancer. When she was 22, Moushumi had 
a fibroadenoma removed from her breast. She had noticed a small new lump in her 
breast 16 years later and ignored it for over a year believing that it was one 
of those benign lumps again. She believes an early diagnosis could have paved 
way for better treatment options for her. In this interview, she urges women to 
be better aware, to do regular self-exams and to go for screening. If diagnosed 
with cancer, she says, one should not lose heart but should fight it with a 
positive spirit. Cancer, after all, is only another chronic disease that needs 
lifelong treatment and care.

DOI: 10.4103/2278-330X.105897
PMCID: PMC3876627
PMID: 24455546

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


175. ACS Nano. 2014 Feb 25;8(2):1690-8. doi: 10.1021/nn4060489. Epub 2014 Jan 23.

Single-molecule analysis of Pseudomonas fluorescens footprints.

El-Kirat-Chatel S(1), Boyd CD, O'Toole GA, Dufrêne YF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Life Sciences, Université catholique de Louvain , Croix du Sud, 
1, bte L7.04.01, B-1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.

Understanding the molecular mechanisms of bacterial adhesion and biofilm 
formation is an important topic in current microbiology and a key in 
nanomedicine for developing new antibacterial strategies. There is growing 
evidence that the production of extracellular polymeric substances at the 
cell-substrate interface plays a key role in strengthening bacterial adhesion. 
Yet, because these adhesive polymers are available in small amounts and are 
localized at interfaces, they are difficult to study using traditional 
techniques. Here, we use single-molecule atomic force microscopy (AFM) to 
functionally analyze the biophysical properties (distribution, adhesion, and 
extension) of bacterial footprints, that is, adhesive macromolecules left on 
substrate surfaces after removal of the attached cells. We focus on the large 
adhesin protein LapA from Pseudomonas fluorescens, which mediates cell 
attachment to a wide diversity of surfaces. Using AFM tips functionalized with 
specific antibodies, we demonstrate that adhesion of bacteria to hydrophobic 
substrates leads to the active accumulation of the LapA protein at the 
cell-substrate interface. We show that single LapA proteins left on the 
substrate after cell detachment localize into microscale domains corresponding 
to the bacterial size and exhibit multiple adhesion peaks reflecting the 
adhesion and extension of adsorbed LapA proteins. The mechanical behavior of 
LapA-based footprints makes them ideally suited to function as multipurpose 
bridging polymers, enabling P. fluorescens to attach to various surfaces. Our 
experiments show that single-molecule AFM offers promising prospects for 
characterizing the biophysics and dynamics of the cell-substrate interface in 
the context of bacterial adhesion, on a scale that was not accessible before.

DOI: 10.1021/nn4060489
PMCID: PMC4936413
PMID: 24456070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


176. Disabil Health J. 2014 Jan;7(1 Suppl):S60-3. doi:
10.1016/j.dhjo.2013.04.009.

Research gaps in the demography of aging with disability.

Freedman VA(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Social Research, University of Michigan, 426 Thompson Street, 
Ann Arbor, MI 48106, USA. Electronic address: vfreedma@umich.edu.

The evidence base regarding the demography of aging with disabilities in the US 
is growing yet substantial gaps remain. This paper summarizes seven major 
research gaps identified during a conference held in May 2012: how many adults 
are aging with disabilities; has survival improved for individuals aging with 
disabilities; can the notion of active life expectancy help inform understanding 
of aging with disability; what is the pattern of onset of secondary conditions 
for individuals aging with disabilities and how might such conditions be 
prevented and/or their debilitating effects ameliorated; what role has obesity 
had in shaping the population of individuals aging with disability; how do 
individuals aging with disability differ from those who develop disability later 
in life; and what are the long-term consequences of developing disability before 
late life for subsequent health, functioning, and socioeconomic outcomes. 
Bridging these gaps is crucial for enhancing understanding of this understudied 
population.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2013.04.009
PMCID: PMC3901947
PMID: 24456687 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No conflicts of interest


177. J Thorac Oncol. 2013 Oct;8(10):1295-307. doi: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e31829f6c55.

Cost effectiveness of modified fractionation radiotherapy versus conventional 
radiotherapy for unresected non-small-cell lung cancer patients.

Ramaekers BL(1), Joore MA, Lueza B, Bonastre J, Mauguen A, Pignon JP, Le Pechoux 
C, De Ruysscher DK; MAR-LC Collaborative group; Grutters JP.

Collaborators: Arriagada R, Bae K, Ball D, Baumann M, Behrendt K, Belani CP, 
Beresford J, Bishop J, Bonner JA, Choy H, Dahlberg SE, De Ruysscher D, Dische S, 
Fournel P, Koch R, Le Péchoux C, Mandrekar SJ, Mauguen A, Mornex F, Nankivell M, 
Nelson G, Parmar MK, Paulus R, Pignon JP, Saunders MI, Sause W, Schild SE, 
Turrisi AT, Zajusz A.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Health Services Research, CAPHRI-School for Public Health and 
Primary Care, Maastricht University, Maastricht, The Netherlands; †Department of 
Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment (KEMTA), Maastricht 
University Medical Center, Maastricht, The Netherlands; ‡Service Biostatistique 
et Epidémiologie, and §Département d'Oncologie et de Radiothérapie, Gustave 
Roussy, Villejuif, France; ‖Department of Radiation Oncology (MAASTRO), 
GROW-School for Oncology and Developmental Biology, Maastricht University 
Medical Center, Maastricht, The Netherlands; ¶Department of Radiation Oncology, 
University Hospital Leuven/KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium; #List of the members of 
Meta-Analysis of Radiotherapy in Lung Cancer Collaborative Group is given at the 
end of the acknowledgments; and **Department of Epidemiology, Biostatistics and 
HTA, University Medical Center, St. Radboud, Nijmegen, The Netherlands. Institut 
Gustave-Roussy/Karolinska Institutet Radiation Therapy Oncology Group Peter 
MacCallum Cancer Centre and the University of Melbourne University of Dresden 
Maria Sklodowska-Curie Memorial Cancer Center and Institute of Oncology Penn 
State Hershey Cancer Institute Peter MacCallum Cancer Centre Victorian 
Comprehensive Cancer Centre University of Alabama-Birmingham The University of 
Texas Southwestern Dana-Farber Cancer Institute University Hospital Leuven and 
University Hospital Maastricht Mount Vernon Hospital Institut de Cancérologie de 
la Loire University of Dresden Institut Gustave-Roussy Mayo Clinic Institut 
Gustave-Roussy Centre Hospitalier Lyon Sud MRC Clinical Trials Unit Mayo Clinic 
MRC Clinical Trials Unit Radiation Therapy Oncology Group Institut 
Gustave-Roussy Mount Vernon Hospital Intermountain Medical Center Mayo Clinic 
Sinai Grace Hospital Maria Sklodowska -Curie Memorial Cancer Center and 
Institute of Oncology.

INTRODUCTION: Modified fractionation radiotherapy (RT), delivering multiple 
fractions per day or shortening the overall treatment time, improves overall 
survival for non -small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) patients compared with 
conventional fractionation RT (CRT). However, its cost effectiveness is unknown. 
Therefore, we aimed to examine and compare the cost effectiveness of different 
modified RT schemes and CRT in the curative treatment of unresected NSCLC 
patients.
METHODS: A probabilistic Markov model was developed based on individual patient 
data from the meta-analysis of radiotherapy in lung cancer (N = 2000). Dutch 
health care costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and net monetary 
benefits (NMBs) were compared between two accelerated schemes (very accelerated 
RT [VART] and moderately accelerated RT [MART]), two hyperfractionated schemes 
(using an identical (HRT) or higher (HRT) total treatment dose than CRT) and 
CRT.
RESULTS: All modified fractionations were more effective and costlier than CRT 
(1.12 QALYs, &OV0556;24,360). VART and MART were most effective (1.30 and 1.32 
QALYs) and cost &OV0556;25,746 and &OV0556;26,208, respectively. HRT and HRT 
yielded less QALYs than the accelerated schemes (1.27 and 1.14 QALYs), and cost 
&OV0556;26,199 and &OV0556;29,683, respectively. MART had the highest NMB 
(&OV0556;79,322; 95% confidence interval [CI], &OV0556;35,478-&OV0556;133,648) 
and was the most cost-effective treatment followed by VART (&OV0556;78,347; 95% 
CI, &OV0556;64,635-&OV0556;92,526). CRT had an NMB of &OV0556;65,125 (95% CI, 
&OV0556;54,663-&OV0556;75,537). MART had the highest probability of being cost 
effective (43%), followed by VART (31%), HRT (24%), HRT (2%), and CRT (0%).
CONCLUSION: Implementing accelerated RT is almost certainly more efficient than 
current practice CRT and should be recommended as standard RT for the curative 
treatment of unresected NSCLC patients not receiving concurrent 
chemo-radiotherapy.

DOI: 10.1097/JTO.0b013e31829f6c55
PMID: 24457241 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


178. Glob Health Promot. 2014 Mar;21(1):5-12. doi: 10.1177/1757975913508592. Epub
 2014 Jan 23.

Promoting health in Georgia.

Raminashvili D(1), Bakhturidze G, Zarnadze I, Peikrishvili N, Bull T.

Author information:
(1)1.Tbilisi State Medical University, Tbilisi, Georgia.

This paper discusses the public health situation in Georgia. In 1991 Georgia 
became an independent republic following the collapse of the Soviet Union. The 
armed conflict with Russia in 2008 and political unrest in recent years has 
presented the Georgian population and politicians with a demanding situation. As 
part of the WHO European Region, the Commonwealth of Independent States (CIS) 
including Georgia is on the unfortunate side of a European health divide, with 
low male life expectancy and high under-five mortality. There is also a high 
degree of economic inequality in the population. We first look at the main 
players and the current strategies in public health work. Next we discuss this 
on the background of health promotion principles and recent international 
developments in knowledge and policy recommendations in the field of health 
promotion. Finally we point to some of the major public health challenges that 
Georgia faces. We conclude that the Georgian focus on reducing risk behaviours 
and improving access to quality health care is worthy of praise, but that this 
is not sufficient to solve the current public health challenges. Strategies for 
working across sectors with social determinants of health should be built into 
Georgian health thinking and policies. A health promotion work force should be 
developed. International developments such as the Commission on Social 
Determinants of Health (CSDH) report, the 'Health 2020' framework and the HP 
Core Competencies project all provide useful input to future development of 
healthy public policies in Georgia.

DOI: 10.1177/1757975913508592
PMID: 24458003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


179. J Trauma Acute Care Surg. 2014 Feb;76(2):534-41. doi: 
10.1097/TA.0b013e3182aafe50.

Cost-utility analysis of prehospital spine immobilization recommendations for 
penetrating trauma.

Garcia A(1), Liu TH, Victorino GP.

Author information:
(1)From the Alameda County Medical Center, University of California, San 
Francisco-East Bay, Oakland, CA.

BACKGROUND: The American College of Surgeons' Committee on Trauma's recent 
prehospital trauma life support recommendations against prehospital spine 
immobilization (PHSI) after penetrating trauma are based on a low incidence of 
unstable spine injuries after penetrating injuries. However, given the chronic 
and costly nature of devastating spine injuries, the cost-utility of PHSI is 
unclear. Our hypothesis was that the cost-utility of PHSI in penetrating trauma 
precludes routine use of this prevention strategy.
METHODS: A Markov model based cost-utility analysis was performed from a society 
perspective of a hypothetical cohort of 20-year-old males presenting with 
penetrating trauma and transported to a US hospital. The analysis compared PHSI 
with observation alone. The probabilities of spine injuries, costs (US 2010 
dollars), and utility of the two groups were derived from published studies and 
public data. Incremental effectiveness was measured in quality-adjusted 
life-years. Subset analyses of isolated head and neck injuries as well as 
sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the strength of the 
recommendations.
RESULTS: Only 0.2% of penetrating trauma produced unstable spine injury, and 
only 7.4% of the patients with unstable spine injury who underwent spine 
stabilization had neurologic improvement. The total lifetime per-patient cost 
was $930,446 for the PHSI group versus $929,883 for the nonimmobilization group, 
with no difference in overall quality-adjusted life-years. Subset analysis 
demonstrated that PHSI for patients with isolated head or neck injuries provided 
equivocal benefit over nonimmobilization.
CONCLUSION: PHSI was not cost-effective for patients with torso or extremity 
penetrating trauma. Despite increased incidence of unstable spine injures 
produced by penetrating head or neck injuries, the cost-benefit of PHSI in these 
patients is equivocal, and further studies may be needed before omitting PHSI in 
patients with penetrating head and neck injuries.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Economic and value-based evaluation, level II.

DOI: 10.1097/TA.0b013e3182aafe50
PMID: 24458063 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


180. Patient. 2014;7(2):197-205. doi: 10.1007/s40271-014-0045-4.

Association between glycated hemoglobin and health utility for Type 1 diabetes.

McQueen RB(1), Ellis SL, Maahs DM, Anderson HD, Nair KV, Libby AM, Campbell JD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy, Skaggs School of Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Mail Stop C238, 12850 
E. Montview Blvd., Aurora, CO, 80045, USA, robert.mcqueen@ucdenver.edu.

OBJECTIVES: Cost-effectiveness models for diabetes link glycated hemoglobin 
(HbA1c) to diabetes-related complications. Independent of diabetes-related 
complications, there is little known on the association between HbA1c and health 
utility scores. This link can alter the cost effectiveness of interventions 
designed to improve HbA1c. The cross-sectional relationship between HbA1c and 
health utility scores in adult type 1 diabetes patients was estimated after 
adjusting for diabetes-related complications.
METHODS: The EuroQoL-5 dimension (EQ-5D) questionnaire and an ad hoc survey 
requesting demographic information and adherence to glucose monitoring therapies 
was administered to adult type 1 diabetes patients during a clinic visit and 
combined with clinical medical record data. Health utility scores were derived 
using the US time-tradeoff valuation of the EQ-5D. Linear regression was used to 
estimate the relationship between HbA1c and utility, adjusting for treatments, 
demographics, and diabetes-related complications.
RESULTS: Among 176 patients, mean (standard deviation [SD]) age was 38 (12.2) 
years, duration of disease was 22 (12.1) years, and number of chronic conditions 
other than type 1 diabetes was 2.7 (2.0). Unadjusted mean (SD) utility was 0.94 
(0.09) for those with HbA1c levels <7 % (n = 54), 0.89 (0.15) for those with 
HbA1c ≥ 7 % (n = 122), and 0.91 (0.14) for all patients. After adjustment, a 1 % 
absolute increase in HbA1c was associated with a disutility of -0.03 (95 % 
confidence interval [CI] -0.049, -0.006).
CONCLUSIONS: Findings suggest that, after adjusting for diabetes-related 
complications, higher HbA1c levels are associated with a significant health 
disutility. Pending additional data from longitudinal studies, these findings 
could be used in cost-effectiveness evaluations of type 1 diabetes interventions 
that impact HbA1c.

DOI: 10.1007/s40271-014-0045-4
PMID: 24458545 [Indexed for MEDLINE]181. J Endocrinol Invest. 2014 Mar;37(3):207-17. doi: 10.1007/s40618-013-0049-2.

Management of adrenal cancer: a 2013 update.

Terzolo M, Daffara F, Ardito A, Zaggia B, Basile V, Ferrari L, Berruti A.

Adrenocortical carcinoma (ACC) is a devastating tumor for either patients or 
their families because of short life expectancy and severe impact on quality of 
life. Due to the rarity of ACC, with a reported annual incidence of 0.5-2 cases 
per million population, progress in the development of treatment options beyond 
surgery has been limited. Up to now, no personalized approach of ACC therapy has 
emerged, apart from plasma level-guided mitotane therapy, and no simple 
targetable molecular event has been identified from preclinical studies. 
Complete surgical removal of ACC is the only potentially curative approach and 
has the most important impact on patient’s prognosis. Despite the limits of the 
available evidence, adjuvant mitotane therapy is currently recommended in many 
expert centers whenever the patients present an elevated risk of recurrence. The 
management of patients with recurrent and metastatic disease is challenging and 
the prognosis is often poor. Mitotane monotherapy is indicated in the management 
of patients with a low tumor burden and/or more indolent disease while patients 
whose disease show an aggressive behavior need cytotoxic chemotherapy. The 
treatment of patients with advanced ACC may include loco-regional approaches 
such as surgery and radiofrequency ablation in addition to systemic therapies. 
The present review provides an updated overview of the management of ACC 
patients following surgery and of the management of ACC patients with advanced 
disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-013-0049-2
PMID: 24458831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


182. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2013;14(12):7367-9. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.12.7367.

Efficiency and side effects of sorafenib therapy for advanced hepatocellular 
carcinoma: a retrospective study by the anatolian society of medical oncology.

Berk V(1), Kaplan MA, Tonyali O, Buyukberber S, Balakan O, Ozkan M, Demirci U, 
Ozturk T, Bilici A, Tastekin D, Ozdemir N, Unal OU, Oflazoglu U, Turkmen E, 
Erdogan B, Uyeturk U, Oksuzoglu B, Cinkir HY, Yasar N, Gumus M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Erciyes University Faculty of Medicine, 
Turkey E-mail : veliberk@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Inoperable and metastatic hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is 
associated with a poor prognosis and low chemotherapeutic efficiency. Sorafenib 
is an oral multi-kinase inhibitor exerting its effects via the RAF/ MEK/ERK 
pathway, vascular endothelial growth factor receptor (VEGFR) and platelet 
derived growth factor receptor beta (PDGFR-β) tyrosine kinases. Randomized 
studies have shown a significant contribution of sorafenib to life expectancy 
and quality of life of cancer patients. The aim of the present study is to 
evaluate the efficacy and side effects of sorafenib therapy in Turkey.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data for 103 patients (82 males, 21 females) receiving 
sorafenib therapy in 13 centers from February 2008 to December 2012 were 
evaluated. Median age was 61 years and median ECOG performance status was 1 
(range: 0-2). 60 patients (58%) had hepatitis B, 15 patients (15%) had hepatitis 
C infection and 12 patients (12%) had a history of alcohol consumption. All of 
the patients had Child scores meeting the utilization permit of the drug in our 
country (Child A).
RESULTS: A total of 571 cycles of sorafenib therapy were administered with a 
median of four per patient. Among the evaluable cases, there was partial 
response in 15 (15%), stable disease in 52 (50%), and progressive disease in 36 
(35%). Median progression-free survival was 18 weeks and median overall survival 
was 48 weeks. The dose was reduced only in 6 patients and discontinued in 2 
patients due to grade 3-4 toxicity, 18 patients (17%) suffering hand-foot 
syndrome, 7 (7%) diarrhea, and 2 (2%) vomiting.
CONCLUSIONS: This retrospective study demonstrated better efficacy of sorafenib 
therapy in patients with advanced HCC compared to the literature while 
progression-free survival and overall survival findings were comparable. The 
side effect rates indicate that the drug was tolerated well. In conclusion, 
among the available treatment options, sorafenib is an efficient and tolerable 
agent in patients with inoperable or metastatic HCC.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2013.14.12.7367
PMID: 24460304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


183. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2014 Jan 25;14:39. doi: 10.1186/1472-6882-14-39.

Cognitive interviews guide design of a new CAM patient expectations 
questionnaire.

Sherman KJ(1), Eaves ER, Ritenbaugh C, Hsu C, Cherkin DC, Turner JA.

Author information:
(1)Group Health Research Institute, 1730 Minor Avenue, Suite 1600, Seattle WA 
98101, USA. Sherman.k@ghc.org.

BACKGROUND: No consistent relationship exists between pre-treatment expectations 
and therapeutic benefit from various complementary and alternative medicine 
(CAM) therapies in clinical trials. However, many different expectancy measures 
have been used in those studies, with no validated questionnaires clearly 
focused on CAM and pain. We undertook cognitive interviews as part of a process 
to develop and validate such a questionnaire.
METHODS: We reviewed questions about expectations of benefits of acupuncture, 
chiropractic, massage, or yoga for pain. Components of the questions - verbs, 
nouns, response options, terms and phrases describing back pain - were 
identified. Using seven different cognitive interview scripts, we conducted 39 
interviews to evaluate how individuals with chronic low back pain understood 
these individual components in the context of expectancy questions for a therapy 
they had not yet received. Chosen items were those with the greatest agreement 
and least confusion among participants, and were closest to the meanings 
intended by the investigators.
RESULTS: The questionnaire drafted for psychometric evaluation had 18 items 
covering various domains of expectancy. "Back pain" was the most consistently 
interpreted descriptor for this condition. The most understandable response 
options were 0-10 scales, a structure used throughout the questionnaire, with 0 
always indicating no change, and 10 anchored with an absolute descriptor such as 
"complete relief". The use of words to describe midpoints was found to be 
confusing. The word "expect" held different and shifting meanings for 
participants. Thus paired items comparing "hope" and "realistically expect" were 
chosen to evaluate 5 different aspects of treatment expectations (back pain; 
back dysfunction and global effects; impact of back pain on specific areas of 
life; sleep, mood, and energy; coping). "Impact of back pain" on various areas 
of life was found to be a consistently meaningful concept, and more global than 
"interference".
CONCLUSIONS: Cognitive interviews identified wordings with considerable 
agreement among both participants and investigators. Some items widely used in 
clinical studies had different meanings to participants than investigators, or 
were confusing to participants. The final 18-item questionnaire is undergoing 
psychometric evaluation with goals of streamlining as well as identifying best 
items for use when questionnaire length is constrained.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6882-14-39
PMCID: PMC3906834
PMID: 24460709 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


184. Am J Transplant. 2014 Mar;14(3):629-34. doi: 10.1111/ajt.12598. Epub 2014
Jan  24.

Lamivudine compared with newer antivirals for prophylaxis of hepatitis B core 
antibody positive livers: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Wright AJ(1), Fishman JA, Chung RT.

Author information:
(1)Infectious Disease Division, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, MA.

There is concern over the development of de novo hepatitis B in patients 
receiving liver transplants from hepatitis B surface antigen negative, hepatitis 
B core antibody positive donors. Current practice is to place such patients on 
indefinite lamivudine prophylaxis; however, there is a small risk of 
breakthrough infection and newer antivirals for hepatitis B are available. The 
objective of this study was to determine the cost-effectiveness of lamivudine 
compared with the newer agents, tenofovir and entecavir, in the prophylaxis 
setting using a Markov model. Three strategies were examined which consisted of 
either lamivudine or entecavir monoprophylaxis with tenofovir add-on therapy 
after breakthrough or tenofovir monoprophylaxis with emtricitabine add-on 
therapy after breakthrough. In the base case scenario, lamivudine was the most 
cost-effective option at a threshold of $100 000 per quality-adjusted life-year 
and this remained robust despite parameter uncertainty. Tenofovir had an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $3 540 194.77 while other strategies 
were superior to entecavir therapy. Until drug costs decrease, lamivudine 
remains the most cost-effective option for hepatitis B prophylaxis in the liver 
transplant setting.

© Copyright 2014 The American Society of Transplantation and the American 
Society of Transplant Surgeons.

DOI: 10.1111/ajt.12598
PMID: 24460820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


185. Enferm Infecc Microbiol Clin. 2014 Dec;32(10):631-7. doi: 
10.1016/j.eimc.2013.11.008. Epub 2014 Jan 23.

[Psychosocial aspects in a cohort of vertically transmitted human 
immunodeficiency virus-infected adolescents].

[Article in Spanish]

García-Navarro C(1), García I(2), Medín G(3), Ramos-Amador JT(4), Navarro-Gómez 
M(3), Mellado-Peña MJ(2), Gómez MI(5), Cortés M(4), Zamora Crespo B(6), 
Muñoz-Fernandez MA(7), Gamero DB(8), González-Tomé MI(9).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Inmunodeficiencias e Infecciosas pediátricas, Hospital 
Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid, España; Sección de Neuropsicología, 
Servicio de Pediatría, Hospital Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid, España.
(2)Servicio de Pediatría, Hospital Carlos III, Madrid, España.
(3)Servicio de Infectología Pediátrica, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio 
Marañón, Madrid, España.
(4)Servicio de Pediatría, Hospital Universitario de Getafe, Getafe, España.
(5)Servicio de Infecciosas pediátricas, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, 
España.
(6)Sección de Neuropsicología, Servicio de Pediatría, Hospital Universitario 12 
de Octubre, Madrid, España.
(7)Servicio de Inmunología, Hospital General Universitario Gregorio Marañón, 
Madrid, España.
(8)Servicio de Inmunodeficiencias e Infecciosas pediátricas, Hospital 
Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid, España.
(9)Servicio de Inmunodeficiencias e Infecciosas pediátricas, Hospital 
Universitario 12 de Octubre, Madrid, España. Electronic address: 
maribelgt@hotmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: Thanks to advances in antiretroviral treatment, children with HIV 
infections through vertical transmission have improved their life expectancy. 
However, new challenges have emerged. We propose this study in order to 
determine the psychosocial aspects and knowledge of infections in a cohort of 
adolescents with vertically transmitted HIV infections.
METHODS: Patients with vertically-acquired HIV infection between 12 and 19 years 
old were included. Data were obtained through semi-structured interviews and a 
Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire for emotional and behavioral disorders 
screening.
RESULTS: We evaluated 96 patients (58% females) with a median age of 15 years 
(11-19.1) and a median age at diagnosis of 1.70 years (0-12.2). The median CD4 
count was 626cells/mm(3) (132-998), and the viral load was<50cp/ml in 72% of 
patients. Among them, 90% attended school and 60% repeated at least one course. 
Although 81% of them knew of their diagnosis, only 30% understood their disease, 
with 18.2% having discussed it with friends. Six unwanted pregnancies occurred 
during the study period. Strengths and Difficulties Questionnaire showed 
hyperactivity risk in 33%.
CONCLUSION: A high percentage of adolescents show difficulties in several areas 
(disease knowledge, peer relationship, school failure...) that can have an 
impact on their adult lives. Further studies are needed to evaluate their origin 
and development in depth, as well as interventions to modify this situation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier España, S.L.U. y Sociedad Española de Enfermedades 
Infecciosas y Microbiología Clínica. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eimc.2013.11.008
PMID: 24461249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


186. Spine J. 2014 Aug 1;14(8):1722-33. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2014.01.021. Epub
2014  Jan 21.

Spinal motor neurite outgrowth over glial scar inhibitors is enhanced by 
coculture with bone marrow stromal cells.

Wright KT(1), Uchida K(2), Bara JJ(3), Roberts S(3), El Masri W(4), Johnson 
WE(5).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Spinal Studies, Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt Orthopaedic Hospital, 
Oswestry, Shropshire SY10 7AG, UK; Institute for Science and Technology in 
Medicine, Keele University, Keele, Staffordshire ST5 5BG, UK. Electronic 
address: Karina.Wright@rjah.nhs.uk.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics and Rehabilitation Medicine, University of 
Fukuimore, 3 - 9 - 1 Bunkyo, Fukui, Fukui Prefecture 910-8507, Japan.
(3)Centre for Spinal Studies, Robert Jones and Agnes Hunt Orthopaedic Hospital, 
Oswestry, Shropshire SY10 7AG, UK; Institute for Science and Technology in 
Medicine, Keele University, Keele, Staffordshire ST5 5BG, UK.
(4)Institute for Science and Technology in Medicine, Keele University, Keele, 
Staffordshire ST5 5BG, UK; Midlands Centre for Spinal Injuries, Robert Jones and 
Agnes Hunt Orthopaedic Hospital, Oswestry, Shropshire SY10 7AG, UK.
(5)Life and Health Sciences, Aston University, Aston Triangle, Birmingham B4 
7ET, UK.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Transplantation of bone marrow cells into spinal cord 
lesions promotes functional recovery in animal models, and recent clinical 
trials suggest possible recovery also in humans. The mechanisms responsible for 
these improvements are still unclear.
PURPOSE: To characterize spinal cord motor neurite interactions with human bone 
marrow stromal cells (MSCs) in an in vitro model of spinal cord injury (SCI).
STUDY DESIGN/SETTING: Previously, we have reported that human MSCs promote the 
growth of extending sensory neurites from dorsal root ganglia (DRG), in the 
presence of some of the molecules present in the glial scar, which are 
attributed with inhibiting axonal regeneration after SCI. We have adapted and 
optimized this system replacing the DRG with a spinal cord culture to produce a 
central nervous system (CNS) model, which is more relevant to the SCI situation.
METHODS: We have developed and characterized a novel spinal cord culture system. 
Human MSCs were cocultured with spinal motor neurites in substrate choice assays 
containing glial scar-associated inhibitors of nerve growth. In separate 
experiments, MSC-conditioned media were analyzed and added to spinal motor 
neurites in substrate choice assays.
RESULTS: As has been reported previously with DRG, substrate-bound neurocan and 
Nogo-A repelled spinal neuronal adhesion and neurite outgrowth, but these 
inhibitory effects were abrogated in MSC/spinal cord cocultures. However, unlike 
DRG, spinal neuronal bodies and neurites showed no inhibition to substrates of 
myelin-associated glycoprotein. In addition, the MSC secretome contained 
numerous neurotrophic factors that stimulated spinal neurite outgrowth, but 
these were not sufficient stimuli to promote spinal neurite extension over 
inhibitory concentrations of neurocan or Nogo-A.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings provide novel insight into how MSC transplantation 
may promote regeneration and functional recovery in animal models of SCI and in 
the clinic, especially in the chronic situation in which glial scars (and 
associated neural inhibitors) are well established. In addition, we have 
confirmed that this CNS model predominantly comprises motor neurons via 
immunocytochemical characterization. We hope that this model may be used in 
future research to test various other potential interventions for spinal injury 
or disease states.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2014.01.021
PMID: 24462452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


187. Int J Food Microbiol. 2014 Mar 17;174:88-97. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2014.01.001. Epub 2014 Jan 9.

Effect of quince seed mucilage edible films incorporated with oregano or thyme 
essential oil on shelf life extension of refrigerated rainbow trout fillets.

Jouki M(1), Yazdi FT(2), Mortazavi SA(2), Koocheki A(2), Khazaei N(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, Ferdowsi 
University of Mashhad, P.O. Box 91775 1163, Mashhad, Iran. Electronic address: 
m.jouki@yahoo.com.
(2)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, Ferdowsi 
University of Mashhad, P.O. Box 91775 1163, Mashhad, Iran.
(3)Department of Food Science and Technology, Faculty of Agriculture, Urmia 
University, Urmia, Iran.

The effects of quince seed mucilage film (QSMF) containing oregano (O) or thyme 
(T) essential oil on shelf life extension of rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) 
fillets during refrigerated storage (4°C) were evaluated over a period of 
18days. Films were prepared in four different concentrations of essential oils, 
including 0, 1, 1.5 and 2%. The control and the wrapped fillet samples were 
analyzed periodically for microbiological (aerobic and psychrotrophic count, 
Pseudomonas spp., H2S-producing bacteria, lactic acid bacteria, and 
Enterobacteriaceae), chemical (TBA, TVB-N, TMA-N), and sensory characteristics. 
Bacteria grew most quickly in trout fillets stored in air, followed by those 
wrapped with QSMF and the lowest counts were in wrapped samples with QSMF+2%T. 
Pseudomonas spp., Enterobacteriaceae and LAB counts were significantly lower in 
samples wrapped with QSMF+2%T. The lowest TBA value was obtained in fillets 
wrapped QSMF containing 2% oregano essential oil. The strong antioxidant 
activity of QSMF+2%O was related to the composition of oregano essential oil. 
The GC analysis of essential oil components revealed that carvacrol (81.85%) was 
the major component of oregano essential oil. TBA value varied for all 
treatments and remained lower than 2mg MDA/kg throughout storage. The formation 
of TVB-N, TMA-N increased with time of storage. TVB-N and TMA-N correlated well 
with the microbiological data, indicating that along with TVB-N, TMA-N may serve 
as a useful index for fillets spoilage. QSMF extended the microbial shelf life 
of rainbow trout fillets by 2days, whereas the QSMF+1%O, QSMF+1.5%O, QSMF+2%O, 
QSMF+1%T, QSMF+1.5%T and QSMF+2%T resulted in a significant shelf life extension 
of the trout fillets by 3, 5, 9, 6, 10 and 11days, respectively, as compared to 
the control samples.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijfoodmicro.2014.01.001
PMID: 24463155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


188. Int J Gynecol Cancer. 2014 Mar;24(3):384-93. doi:
10.1097/IGC.0000000000000075.

Reproductive factors and the risk of endometrial cancer.

Ali AT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Pathology, Stellenbosch Medical School, Tygerberg 
Hospital, Cape Town, South Africa.

Endometrial cancer is the most common malignancy of women in developed 
countries, and its incidence is 10 times higher than in developing countries. 
Endometrial cancer is most common in the sixth and the seventh decades of life; 
thus, postmenopausal women have a higher risk of developing the disease compared 
with premenopausal women. The increased incidence and prevalence of endometrial 
cancer can be explained by the increase in life expectancy, increased caloric 
intake, increased obesity rates, and other changes in lifestyle and reproductive 
factors. Among the reproductive factors, the risk of endometrial cancer is 
positively correlated with a younger age at menarche and late age at menopause, 
infertility, null parity, age of the first child, and long-term use of unopposed 
estrogens for hormone replacement therapy. Protection against endometrial cancer 
has been detected with increase parity, the use of combined oral contraceptives, 
and increased age of women at last delivery. The relationship between 
endometrial cancer risk and miscarriage, abortion, ovulation induction drugs and 
in vitro fertilization is still controversial.

DOI: 10.1097/IGC.0000000000000075
PMID: 24463639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


189. Ann Acad Med Singap. 2013 Dec;42(12):640-5.

Cancer among end-stage renal disease patients on dialysis.

Loy EY(1), Choong HL, Chow KY.

Author information:
(1)National Registry of Diseases Office, Health Promotion Board, Singapore.

INTRODUCTION: The aim of this study is to investigate the risk of cancer among 
end-stage renal disease (ESRD) patients on dialysis in Singapore.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The study looks at a retrospective cohort of 5505 ESRD 
patients who had received dialysis between 1998 and 2007. The cancer risk of 
these patients would be compared against the risk of the general population.
RESULTS: During a median follow-up time of 3.9 years, 267 (4.9%) dialysis 
patients developed cancer. The risk of cancer (excluding non-melanoma skin 
cancer) is 1.66 times higher in dialysis patients than the general population, 
and is highest at age less than 35 years old and at first year after dialysis. 
Cancer risk was found to be significantly higher among Chinese dialysis 
patients, followed by Malays, compared to the general population. The 3 sites 
with highest elevated cancer risks among dialysis patients compared to the 
general population are kidney, tongue and multiple myeloma.
CONCLUSION: The finding of elevated cancer risk among younger dialysis patients 
is similar to other international studies. High cancer risks among specific 
cancer sites were also consistent with other studies. In view of the lack of 
screening procedures for these cancers and shortened expected survival of ESRD 
patients, cancer screening of ESRD patients should be individualised and based 
on a reasonable life expectancy and transplant candidacy, keeping in mind the 
competing risk of cardiovascular mortality.

PMID: 24463825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


190. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Apr;32(4):411-9. doi: 10.1007/s40273-013-0124-8.

Differential time preferences for money and quality of life.

Parouty MB(1), Le HH, Krooshof D, Postma MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Unit of PharmacoEpidemiology & PharmacoEconomics 
(PE2), University of Groningen, Groningen, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: This study provides an empirical investigation into differential 
time preferences between money and quality of life. Thus far, time preference 
investigations in health have mostly involved life-years gained and lives saved. 
However, the quality-adjusted life-year, which is recommended by several bodies, 
is a multiplicative measure of life duration and quality of life. To our 
knowledge, our study is the first to follow this approach specifically for 
quality of life.
METHODS: A questionnaire was developed to elicit time preferences for quality of 
life and for money, and it was distributed to a representative sample of the 
Dutch population. We also investigated the impact of population characteristics, 
such as current health state, optimistic/pessimistic future views or gender, on 
time preferences.
RESULTS: We found that discount rates for both money and quality of life 
decrease with increasing time of delay, with rates of the former being 
consistently at least two times higher than those of the latter. Similar trends 
in time preferences were observed across the subgroups, with the exception of 
the relatively high education subgroup.
CONCLUSION: In agreement with the results of other studies, our empirically 
derived discount rates are higher than the rates featured in national guidelines 
for health care economic assessment. Our empirical study adds to the evidence 
for differential discounting, both with regards to money and health, as well as 
in time.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-013-0124-8
PMID: 24464352 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


191. Int J Occup Med Environ Health. 2014 Jan;27(1):38-49. doi: 
10.2478/s13382-014-0223-6. Epub 2014 Jan 24.

Towards estimating the burden of disease attributable to second-hand smoke 
exposure in Polish children.

Jarosińska D(1), Polańska K, Wojtyniak B, Hanke W.

Author information:
(1)European Environment Agency, Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate the burden of disease attributable to second-hand smoke 
(SHS) exposure in Polish children in terms of the number of deaths and 
disability adjusted life years (DALYs) due to lower respiratory infections 
(LRI), otitis media (OM), asthma, low birth weight (LBW) and sudden infant death 
syndrome (SIDS).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Estimates of SHS exposure in children and in pregnant 
women as well as information concerning maternal smoking were derived from a 
national survey, the Global Youth Tobacco Survey, and the Global Adult Tobacco 
Survey in Poland. Mortality data (LRI, OM, asthma, and SIDS), the number of 
cases (LBW), and population data were obtained from national statistics (year 
2010), and DALYs came from the WHO (year 2004). The burden of disease due to SHS 
was calculated by multiplying the total burden of a specific health outcome 
(deaths or DALYs) by a population attributable fraction.
RESULTS: Using two estimates of SHS exposure in children: 48% and 60%, at least 
12 and 14 deaths from LRI in children aged up to 2 years were attributed to SHS, 
for the two exposure scenarios, respectively. The highest burden of DALYs was 
for asthma in children aged up to 15 years: 2412, and 2970 DALYs, for the two 
exposure scenarios, respectively. For LRI, 419 and 500 DALYs, and for OM, 61 and 
77 DALYs were attributed to SHS, for the two exposure scenarios, respectively. 
Between 13% and 27% of SIDS cases and between 3% and 16% of the cases of LBW at 
term were attributed to SHS exposure.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a conservative estimate of the public health 
impact of SHS exposure on Polish children. Lack of comprehensive, up to date 
health data concerning children, as well as lack of measures that would best 
reflect actual SHS exposure are major limitations of the study, likely to 
underestimate the burden of disease.

DOI: 10.2478/s13382-014-0223-6
PMID: 24464439 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


192. PLoS One. 2014 Jan 22;9(1):e83894. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0083894. 
eCollection 2014.

Economic evaluation of brief psychodynamic interpersonal therapy in patients 
with multisomatoform disorder.

Chernyak N(1), Sattel H(2), Scheer M(3), Baechle C(3), Kruse J(4), Henningsen 
P(2), Icks A(1).
