conflict of interest.


51. J Clin Oncol. 2014 Feb 10;32(5):444-8. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2013.50.8952. Epub
2014  Jan 13.

Assessing progress in reducing the burden of cancer mortality, 1985-2005.

Soneji S(1), Beltrán-Sánchez H, Sox HC.

Author information:
(1)Samir Soneji and Harold C. Sox, Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and 
Clinical Practice, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover; Samir 
Soneji, Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Lebanon, NH; and Hiram Beltrán-Sánchez, 
Center for Population and Development Studies, Harvard University, Cambridge, 
MA.

PURPOSE: Measuring the effect of cancer interventions must take into account 
rising cancer incidence now that people live longer because of declines in 
mortality from cardiovascular disease (CVD). Cancer mortality rates in the 
population do not accomplish this objective. We sought a measure that would 
reveal the effects of changing mortality rates from other diseases.
METHODS: We obtained annual breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate cancer 
mortality rates from the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results registries; 
we obtained noncancer mortality rates from national death certificates, 1975 to 
2005. We used life-table methods to calculate the burden of cancer mortality as 
the average person-years of life lost (PYLL) as a result of cancer 
(cancer-specific PYLL) and quantify individual-and perhaps 
offsetting-contributions of the two factors that affect cancer-specific PYLL: 
mortality rates as a result of cancer and other-cause mortality.
RESULTS: Falling cancer mortality rates reduced the burden of mortality from 
leading cancers, but increasing cancer incidence as a result of decreasing 
other-cause mortality rates partially offset this progress. Between 1985 and 
1989 and between 2000 and 2004, the burden of lung cancer in males declined by 
0.1 year of life lost. This decline reflects the sum of two effects: decreasing 
lung cancer mortality rates that reduced the average burden of lung cancer 
mortality by 0.33 years of life lost and declining other-cause mortality rates 
that raised it by 0.23 years. Other common cancers showed similar patterns.
CONCLUSION: By using a measure that accounts for increased cancer incidence as a 
result of improvements in CVD mortality, we find that prior assessments have 
underestimated the impact of cancer interventions.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2013.50.8952
PMCID: PMC3912329
PMID: 24419122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Authors' disclosures of potential conflicts of 
interest and author contributions are found at the end of this article.


52. Urologia. 2013 Sep-Dec;80(4):283-9. doi: 10.5301/RU.2013.11667. Epub 2013 Dec
9.

[Focal therapy and prostate cancer].

[Article in Italian]

Lazzeri M(1), Losa A, Buffi N, Lughezzani G, Fossati N, Abrate A, Larcher A, 
Lista G, Mistretta A, Guazzoni G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, San Raffaele Turro, Vita-Salute San Raffaele 
University, Milan - Italy.

The International Task Force on Prostate Cancer defines focal therapy (FT) for 
prostate cancer (PCa) as the therapy that "selectively ablates known disease and 
preserves existing functions, with the overall objective of minimizing lifetime 
morbidity without compromising life expectancy". FT for the treatment of PCa has 
been called the "male lumpectomy", an analogue to women's breast lumpectomy for 
the treatment of breast cancer. Radical prostatectomy continues to be the most 
frequently performed treatment for localized PCa, as anatomic knowledge and 
several technical advances, i.e. the introduction of robotic assisted surgery, 
have led to successful oncological outcome and lower rates of post-treatment 
morbidity. However, a proportion of patients still experiences a no negligible 
sexual, urinary, and bowel morbidity. Although the rationale of active 
surveillance for low-risk PCa (PSA <10 ng/mL, Gleason grade 6 or less, and 
clinical stage T1c-T2a) is sound, only few of newly diagnosed patients elect 
this approach. Thus, in the recent years the concept of a "subtotal therapy" 
gained the interest of some urological schools. The aim of this paper is to 
review the existing literature in order to provide the status of art on FT for 
PCa. The manuscript will focus on the characteristics of the target population, 
on the pre-operative evaluation to localise disease, as well as on 
perioperative, functional, and disease-control following focal therapy.

DOI: 10.5301/RU.2013.11667
PMID: 24419922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Eur J Cardiothorac Surg. 2014 Aug;46(2):267-73; discussion 273. doi: 
10.1093/ejcts/ezt603. Epub 2014 Jan 12.

Should males ever undergo wedge resection for stage 1 non-small-cell lung 
cancer? A propensity analysis.

Mediratta N(1), Shackcloth M(1), Page R(1), Woolley S(1), Asante-Siaw J(1), 
Poullis M(2).

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital, Liverpool, UK.
(2)Liverpool Heart and Chest Hospital, Liverpool, UK mpoullis@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: Wedge resections are frequently performed for small peripheral 
lesions in patients unfit for a more extensive resection. We aimed to 
investigate whether patient sex and histology type are important factors 
determining survival in patients undergoing a wedge resection for stage I lung 
cancer.
METHODS: We retrospectively analysed a prospective thoracic database of patients 
(n = 2859) who had undergone potentially curative wedge resection for stage I 
non-small-cell lung cancer. Only patients with adenocarcinoma or squamous 
carcinoma were included (n = 540). We benchmarked our 5-year survival against 
the sixth International Association for the Study of Lung Cancer results. 
Kaplan-Meier, Cox multivariate regression analysis and propensity analysis were 
utilized to assess the effect of sex and histology on survival post-wedge 
resection with regard to long-term survival.
RESULTS: Cox regression of patients who had undergone wedge resection 
demonstrated that adenocarcinoma (odds ratio [OR]: 2.16, 95% confidence interval 
[CI]: 1.11-4.19), P = 0.02 was the only significant term determining long-term 
survival. Cox regression of male patients identified adenocarcinoma (OR: 3.29, 
95% CI: 1.22-8.86), P = 0.02 as the only significant term determining long-term 
survival. Cox regression of female patients failed to identify any significant 
factors that determine long-term survival. Propensity matching based on gender 
identified that gender had no effect on survival, P = 0.46; however, histology 
was associated with a difference in survival, P = 0.02. This effect occurred in 
males, P = 0.02, but not females, P = 0.26. Propensity matching based on 
histology identified that gender had no effect on survival, P = 0.29; however, 
histology was associated with a difference in survival, P = 0.01. This effect 
occurred in males, P = 0.01, but not females, P = 0.26. Differing life 
expectancy between males and females was adjusted for by the use of the 
Framingham-predicted life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term survival of patients with stage I non-small-cell lung 
cancer who undergo a wedge resection is affected by gender and histological 
type. Male patients undergoing wedge resections for adenocarcinoma have outcomes 
inferior to those of patients with squamous carcinoma. Histology type does not 
affect survival in female patients undergoing wedge resections.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ejcts/ezt603
PMID: 24420371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Lifetime Data Anal. 2014 Oct;20(4):584-98. doi: 10.1007/s10985-013-9290-4.
Epub  2014 Jan 14.

Events per variable for risk differences and relative risks using 
pseudo-observations.

Hansen SN(1), Andersen PK, Parner ET.

Author information:
(1)Section for Biostatistics, University of Aarhus, Bartholins Allé 2, 8000 , 
Aarhus C, Denmark, stefanh@biostat.au.dk.

A method based on pseudo-observations has been proposed for direct regression 
modeling of functionals of interest with right-censored data, including the 
survival function, the restricted mean and the cumulative incidence function in 
competing risks. The models, once the pseudo-observations have been computed, 
can be fitted using standard generalized estimating equation software. 
Regression models can however yield problematic results if the number of 
covariates is large in relation to the number of events observed. Guidelines of 
events per variable are often used in practice. These rules of thumb for the 
number of events per variable have primarily been established based on 
simulation studies for the logistic regression model and Cox regression model. 
In this paper we conduct a simulation study to examine the small sample behavior 
of the pseudo-observation method to estimate risk differences and relative risks 
for right-censored data. We investigate how coverage probabilities and relative 
bias of the pseudo-observation estimator interact with sample size, number of 
variables and average number of events per variable.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-013-9290-4
PMID: 24420649 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. Z Gastroenterol. 2014 Jan;52(1):55-7. doi: 10.1055/s-0033-1356225. Epub 2014
Jan  13.

[Case report about a 35 year old patient with cystic fibrosis and metastatic 
pancreatic cancer].

[Article in German]

Meier F(1), Oltmanns A(2), Brandmaier P(3), Wittekind C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Pathologie, Universitätsklinikum AöR Leipzig.
(2)Medizinische Klinik und Poliklinik I, Abteilung für Pneumologie, 
Universitätsklinikum AöR Leipzig.
(3)Klinik und Poliklinik für Diagnostische und Interventionelle Radiologie, 
Universitätsklinikum AöR Leipzig.

Cystic fibrosis is the most common lethal genetic disease in Caucasian 
population. End-stage lung disease is the most frequent cause of death, however 
since therapeutic options have improved the life expectancy of patients with 
cystic fibrosis, increased incidences of gastrointestinal tumors including 
pancreatic carcinoma have been reported in several cohort studies from the USA 
and Europe. We report about a 35-year-old male patient who died from cystic 
fibrosis with a pancreatic carcinoma, which was histologically confirmed by 
autopsy. Additionally a low grade appendiceal mucinous neoplasm (LAMN) was 
diagnosed.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0033-1356225
PMID: 24420800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


56. Mult Scler. 2014 Jul;20(8):1123-30. doi: 10.1177/1352458513515958. Epub 2014
Jan  13.

Cost effectiveness of a pragmatic exercise intervention (EXIMS) for people with 
multiple sclerosis: economic evaluation of a randomised controlled trial.

Tosh J(1), Dixon S(1), Carter A(2), Daley A(3), Petty J(4), Roalfe A(3), 
Sharrack B(5), Saxton JM(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, UK.
(2)Centre for Sport and Exercise Science, Sheffield Hallam University, UK.
(3)Primary Care Clinical Sciences, University of Birmingham, UK.
(4)Multiple Sclerosis Society, UK.
(5)Neurology Department, Sheffield Teaching Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, UK.
(6)School of Rehabilitation Sciences, University of East Anglia, UK 
john.saxton@uea.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Exercise is a safe, non-pharmacological adjunctive treatment for 
people with multiple sclerosis but cost-effective approaches to implementing 
exercise within health care settings are needed.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this paper is to assess the cost effectiveness of a 
pragmatic exercise intervention in conjunction with usual care compared to usual 
care only in people with mild to moderate multiple sclerosis.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis of a pragmatic randomised controlled trial over 
nine months of follow-up was conducted. A total of 120 people with multiple 
sclerosis were randomised (1:1) to the intervention or usual care. Exercising 
participants received 18 supervised and 18 home exercise sessions over 12 weeks. 
The primary outcome for the cost utility analysis was the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained, calculated using utilities measured by 
the EQ-5D questionnaire.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per QALY of the intervention was £10,137 per QALY 
gained compared to usual care. The probability of being cost effective at a 
£20,000 per QALY threshold was 0.75, rising to 0.78 at a £30,000 per QALY 
threshold.
CONCLUSION: The pragmatic exercise intervention is highly likely to be cost 
effective at current established thresholds, and there is scope for it to be 
tailored to particular sub-groups of patients or services to reduce its cost 
impact.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/1352458513515958
PMID: 24421304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


57. Annu Rev Public Health. 2014;35:307-25. doi: 
10.1146/annurev-publhealth-032013-182411. Epub 2014 Jan 9.

Why do Americans have shorter life expectancy and worse health than do people in 
other high-income countries?

Avendano M(1), Kawachi I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Social Policy, LSE Health and Social Care, London School of 
Economics and Political Science, London, WC2A 2AE, United Kingdom; email: 
M.Avendano-Pabon@lse.ac.uk , mavendan@hsph.harvard.edu.

Americans lead shorter and less healthy lives than do people in other 
high-income countries. We review the evidence and explanations for these 
variations in longevity and health. Our overview suggests that the US health 
disadvantage applies to multiple mortality and morbidity outcomes. The American 
health disadvantage begins at birth and extends across the life course, and it 
is particularly marked for American women and for regions in the US South and 
Midwest. Proposed explanations include differences in health care, individual 
behaviors, socioeconomic inequalities, and the built physical environment. 
Although these factors may contribute to poorer health in America, a focus on 
proximal causes fails to adequately account for the ubiquity of the US health 
disadvantage across the life course. We discuss the role of specific public 
policies and conclude that while multiple causes are implicated, crucial 
differences in social policy might underlie an important part of the US health 
disadvantage.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-publhealth-032013-182411
PMCID: PMC4112220
PMID: 24422560 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


58. Addiction. 2014 Feb;109(2):185-6. doi: 10.1111/add.12343.

Prescription opioid deaths: we need to treat sick populations, not just sick 
individuals.

Rintoul AC(1), Dobbin M.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 3rd Floor 
Burnet Building, Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Vic., 3004, Australia. 
Angela.Rintoul@monash.edu.

Comment in
    Addiction. 2014 Feb;109(2):186-8.

DOI: 10.1111/add.12343
PMID: 24422612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


59. Evid Rep Technol Assess (Full Rep). 2013 Jun;(212):1-514.

Oral contraceptive use for the primary prevention of ovarian cancer.

Havrilesky LJ, Gierisch JM, Moorman PG, Coeytaux RR, Urrutia RP, Lowery WJ, 
Dinan M, McBroom AJ, Wing L, Musty MD, Lallinger KR, Hasselblad V, Sanders GD, 
Myers ER.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the overall balance of harms and benefits from the 
potential use of oral contraceptives (OCs) for the primary prevention of ovarian 
cancer
DATA SOURCES: We searched PubMed®, Embase®, the Cochrane Database of Systematic 
Reviews, and ClinicalTrials.gov for English-language studies published from 
January 1990 to June 2012 that evaluated the potential benefits (reduction in 
ovarian, colorectal, and endometrial cancers) and harms (increase in breast and 
cervical cancer, and vascular complications) of OC use.
REVIEW METHODS: Two investigators screened each abstract and full-text article 
for inclusion; the investigators abstracted data, and they performed quality 
ratings, applicability ratings, and evidence grading. Random-effects models were 
used to compute summary estimates of effects. A simulation model was used to 
estimate the effects of OC use on the overall balance of benefits and harms.
RESULTS: We reviewed 55 studies relevant to ovarian cancer outcomes, 66 relevant 
to other cancers, and 50 relevant to vascular events. Ovarian cancer incidence 
was significantly reduced in OC users (OR [odds ratio], 0.73; 95% CI [confidence 
interval], 0.66 to 0.81), with greater reductions seen with longer duration of 
use. Breast cancer incidence was slightly but significantly increased in OC 
users (OR, 1.08; 95% CI, 1.00 to 1.17), with a significant reduction in risk as 
time since last use increased. The risk of cervical cancer was significantly 
increased in women with persistent human papillomavirus infection who used OCs, 
but heterogeneity prevented a formal meta-analysis. Incidences of both 
colorectal cancer (OR, 0.86; 95% CI, 0.79 to 0.95) and endometrial cancer (OR, 
0.57; 95% CI, 0.43 to 0.76) were significantly reduced by OC use. The risk of 
vascular events was increased in current OC users compared with nonusers, 
although the increase in myocardial infarction was not statistically 
significant. The overall strength of evidence for ovarian cancer prevention was 
moderate to low, primarily because of the lack of randomized trials and 
inconsistent reporting of important characteristics of use, such as duration. 
The simulation model predicted that the combined increase in risk of breast and 
cervical cancers and vascular events was likely to be equivalent to or greater 
than the decreased risk in ovarian cancer, although the harm/benefit ratio was 
much more favorable when protection against endometrial and colorectal cancers 
was added, resulting in net gains in life expectancy of approximately 1 month.
CONCLUSIONS: There is insufficient evidence to recommend for or against the use 
of OCs solely for the primary prevention of ovarian cancer. Although the net 
effects of the current patterns of OC use likely result in increased life 
expectancy when other noncontraceptive benefits are included, the harm/benefit 
ratio for ovarian cancer prevention alone is uncertain, particularly when the 
potential quality-of-life impact of breast cancer and vascular events are 
considered.

PMCID: PMC4781074
PMID: 24423062 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


60. Int J Clin Pract. 2014 Oct;68(10):1227-30. doi: 10.1111/ijcp.12309. Epub 2014
 Jan 15.

Prosthetic heart valves.

Chambers J(1).

Author information:
(1)Cardiothoracic Centre, St Thomas' Hospital, London, UK.

Heart valve replacements improve symptoms and life expectancy but may have 
potential problems. Biological replacements have limited durability but do not 
require anticoagulation and are usually used for the relatively elderly. 
Mechanical valves have a virtually zero primary failure rate but require 
anticoagulation and are usually used for the relatively younger patient. 
Transcatheter valves are used for patients in whom conventional surgery is not 
technically feasible or who have significant comorbidities. This article 
discusses the management of patients after valve replacement and discusses 
future developments.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijcp.12309
PMID: 24423099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]61. BMC Struct Biol. 2014 Jan 14;14:2. doi: 10.1186/1472-6807-14-2.

Dimeric structure of p300/CBP associated factor.

Shi S, Lin J, Cai Y, Yu J, Hong H, Ji K, Downey JS, Lu X, Chen R, Han J(1), Han 
A.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Cellular Stress Biology, School of Life Sciences, 
Xiamen University, Xiamen 361102, China. jhan@xmu.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: p300/CBP associating factor (PCAF, also known as KAT2B for lysine 
acetyltransferase 2B) is a catalytic subunit of megadalton metazoan complex ATAC 
(Ada-Two-A containing complex) for acetylation of histones. However, relatively 
little is known about the regulation of the enzymatic activity of PCAF.
RESULTS: Here we present two dimeric structures of the PCAF acetyltransferase 
(HAT) domain. These dimerizations are mediated by either four-helical 
hydrophobic interactions or a ß-sheet extension. Our chemical cross-linking 
experiments in combined with site-directed mutagenesis demonstrated that the 
PCAF HAT domain mainly forms a dimer in solution through one of the observed 
interfaces. The results of maltose binding protein (MBP)-pulldown, 
co-immunoprecipitation and multiangle static light scattering experiments 
further indicated that PCAF dimeric state is detectable and may possibly exist 
in vivo.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, our structural and biochemical studies indicate 
that PCAF appears to be a dimer in its functional ATAC complex.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6807-14-2
PMCID: PMC3897949
PMID: 24423233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


62. J Clin Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Mar;99(3):791-9. doi: 10.1210/jc.2013-2480.
Epub  2014 Jan 13.

Pasireotide versus octreotide in acromegaly: a head-to-head superiority study.

Colao A(1), Bronstein MD, Freda P, Gu F, Shen CC, Gadelha M, Fleseriu M, van der 
Lely AJ, Farrall AJ, Hermosillo Reséndiz K, Ruffin M, Chen Y, Sheppard M; 
Pasireotide C2305 Study Group.

Collaborators: Akcay G, Arafat A, Arellano S, Barkan A, Bertherat J, Bex M, 
Boguszewski C, Bollerslev J, Borson-Chazot F, Bronstein M, Brue T, Bruno O, 
Casanueva F, Chang CN, Chang TC, Chanson P, Chervin A, Chik C, Colao A, 
Corvilain B, De Marinis L, Degli Uberti E, Duan L, Edén Engstrom B, Erbas T, 
Farrall A, Faria M, Fleseriu M, Freda P, Gadelha M, Ghigo E, Glaser B, Gordon M, 
Grineva E, Gu F, Guitelman M, Heaney A, Houde G, Katznelson L, Khalimov Y, Kim 
KW, Kim MS, Kim SW, Laurberg P, Lee EJ, Ludlam W, Marek J, Martino E, McPhaul M, 
Mercado M, Minuto F, Montenegro R, Naves L, Ning G, Piaditis G, Pico Alfonso A, 
Pronin V, Quinn S, Racz K, Rojas W, Rozhinskaya L, Salvatori R, Samson S, 
Sandeman D, Schopohl J, Serri O, Shen CC, Sheppard M, Shimon I, Soler Ramon J, 
Tabarin A, T'Sjoen G, Unger N, van der Lely A, Venegas Moreno E, Waguespack S, 
Zgliczyński W.

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Chirurgia (A.C.), Università Federico II 
di Napoli, 80131 Naples, Italy; Neuroendocrine Unit (M.D.B.), Division of 
Endocrinology and Metabolism, University of São Paulo Medical School, 
3858-Jardim Paulista, São Paulo, Brazil; Department of Medicine (P.F.), Columbia 
University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York 10032; 
Department of Endocrinology (F.G.), Key Laboratory of Endocrinology, Ministry of 
Health, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Chinese Academy of Medical 
Sciences, Beijing, China; Department of Neurosurgery (C.-C.S.), Taichung 
Veterans General Hospital, Taichung 40705, Taiwan; Department of Physical 
Therapy (C.-C.S.), Hungkuang University, Taichung 43302, Taiwan; Department of 
Medicine and Tri-Service General Hospital (C.-C.S.), National Defense Medical 
Center, Taipei 11490, Taiwan; Endocrine Unit (M.G.), Hospital Universitário 
Clementino Fraga Filho, Universidade Federal do Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, 
22421020, Brazil; Department of Medicine and Neurological Surgery (M.F.), 
Northwest Pituitary Center, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, 
Oregon 97239; Department of Medicine (A.J.v.d.L.), Erasmus University Medical 
Center, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands; Brain Research Imaging Centre 
(A.J.F.), University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH4 2XU, United Kingdom; Clinical 
Development (K.H.R., Y.C.), Novartis Pharmaceuticals Corporation, Florham Park, 
New Jersey 07932; Clinical Development (M.R.), Oncology Business Unit, Novartis 
Pharma AG, CH-4057 Basel, Switzerland; and Centre for Endocrinology, Diabetes, 
and Metabolism (M.S.), University of Birmingham, Edgbaston, Birmingham, B152TT.

CONTEXT: Biochemical control reduces morbidity and increases life expectancy in 
patients with acromegaly. With current medical therapies, including the gold 
standard octreotide long-acting-release (LAR), many patients do not achieve 
biochemical control.
OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to demonstrate the superiority of pasireotide LAR 
over octreotide LAR in medically naive patients with acromegaly.
DESIGN AND SETTING: We conducted a prospective, randomized, double-blind study 
at 84 sites in 27 countries.
PATIENTS: A total of 358 patients with medically naive acromegaly (GH >5 μg/L or 
GH nadir ≥1 μg/L after an oral glucose tolerance test (OGTT) and IGF-1 above the 
upper limit of normal) were enrolled. Patients either had previous pituitary 
surgery but no medical treatment or were de novo with a visible pituitary 
adenoma on magnetic resonance imaging.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients received pasireotide LAR 40 mg/28 days (n = 176) or 
octreotide LAR 20 mg/28 days (n = 182) for 12 months. At months 3 and 7, 
titration to pasireotide LAR 60 mg or octreotide LAR 30 mg was permitted, but 
not mandatory, if GH ≥2.5μg/L and/or IGF-1 was above the upper limit of normal.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURE: The main outcome measure was the proportion of patients in 
each treatment arm with biochemical control (GH <2.5 μg/L and normal IGF-1) at 
month 12.
RESULTS: Biochemical control was achieved by significantly more pasireotide LAR 
patients than octreotide LAR patients (31.3% vs 19.2%; P = .007; 35.8% vs 20.9% 
when including patients with IGF-1 below the lower normal limit). In pasireotide 
LAR and octreotide LAR patients, respectively, 38.6% and 23.6% (P = .002) 
achieved normal IGF-1, and 48.3% and 51.6% achieved GH <2.5 μg/L. 31.0% of 
pasireotide LAR and 22.2% of octreotide LAR patients who did not achieve 
biochemical control did not receive the recommended dose increase. 
Hyperglycemia-related adverse events were more common with pasireotide LAR 
(57.3% vs 21.7%).
CONCLUSIONS: Pasireotide LAR demonstrated superior efficacy over octreotide LAR 
and is a viable new treatment option for acromegaly.

DOI: 10.1210/jc.2013-2480
PMCID: PMC3965714
PMID: 24423324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


63. Georgian Med News. 2013 Dec;(225):60-7.

[Influence of treatment with olmesartan on ambulatory blood pressure monitoring 
parameters in patients with arterial hypertension].

[Article in Russian]

Bregvadze TR, Tseluĭko VI, Mishchuk NE.

Hypertension is the most common disease of the cardiovascular system. Active 
treatment of hypertension with adequate control of blood pressure (BP) can 
prevent complications, improve life quality and increase life expectancy. One of 
the interesting new antihypertensive agents, from the group of angiotensin 
receptor blockers is olmesartan. The obvious advantages of ambulatory blood 
pressure monitoring to traditional one-time measurements of BP make this method 
perspective for quality control of anti-hypertensive therapy. The aim of this 
study was to evaluate the influence of treatment with olmesartan on ambulatory 
blood pressure monitoring parameters in patients with hypertension. 38 
out-patients with hypertension at the age of 25-84 years (mean 55,3±10,6) were 
studied. Patients received olmesartan 20 mg daily as monotherapy (20 patients 
(52,6%)) or in combination with other antihypertensive agents (18 patients 
(47,4%)). Treatment continued for 6 months. The complex examination included: 
measurement of office brachial BP, electrocardiography, echocardiography and 
ambulatory blood pressure monitoring (ABPM). As a result of treatment, office BP 
and diurnal BP, according to ABPM, significantly decreased; the favorable 
circadian BP profile dynamics were found: significantly less frequently observed 
lack of reduction in BP during night (daily index - non-dipper) - 18% vs. 64% (p 
<0,001), while the number of individuals with normal daily index (dipper) 
increased significantly - 76% vs. 28% (p <0,001). Also there was determined the 
significant reduction in daytime and nighttime systolic BP variability - by 1.5 
mmHg and 2.1 mmHg, respectively, with the normalization of these parameters at 
the end of the observation period. The presented results allow conclude, that 
treatment of hypertensive patients with olmesartan provides significant decline 
not only in office BP, but also in diurnal BP, normalizes BP of active and 
passive periods, also - daily index and reduces BP variability.

PMID: 24423678 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


64. Educ Prim Care. 2014 Jan;25(1):36-42. doi: 10.1080/14739879.2014.11494239.

An evaluation of medical students' views on the introduction of a community 
placement and its impact on their understanding of patients with disabilities.

Watmough S(1), Leftwick P(2), Alexander-White S(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Liverpool, UK, Centre for Excellence in Evidence-based Learning 
and Teaching, University of Liverpool, Cedar House, Ashton Street, Liverpool L69 
3GE, UK. efcsw@liv.ac.uk.
(2)University Community Clinical Teacher, University of Liverpool, UK.
(3)Community Studies Unit, University of Liverpool, UK.

BACKGROUND: In 2011 the third-year community course at the University of 
Liverpool was reorganised to have an emphasis on disability. The aim was to 
increase students' understanding of some of the issues surrounding disability 
and what this means to individual patients. The rotation consists of six 
full-day, small-group tutorial sessions, five days at a GP placement where, 
amongst other things, they have to perform a 'long case' clerking of two 
patients with disabilities, communication skills sessions and visits to 
community disability centres.
METHODS: Five focus groups were arranged with a total of 42 students from the 
third year at the University of Liverpool asking them their views on the 
rotation and whether it had increased their understanding of this area.
RESULTS: The students had enjoyed the placement and felt it had increased their 
understanding of the issues surrounding disability. Seeing patients in the 
community, time spent being taught by a GP and seeing patients with a GP were 
particularly well received. The centre visits in particular gave them an insight 
into people's lives and the fact they had to log cases of patients with 
disabilities helped to ensure the aims of the rotation were met.
CONCLUSION: Overall the responses from the students were positive towards the 
block and the placement and they could see the value of a disability rotation 
based in the community.

DOI: 10.1080/14739879.2014.11494239
PMID: 24423799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


65. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2014 Jan;41(1):27-30.

[Problems after radiation therapy].

[Article in Japanese]

Karasawa K(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Center Hospital for Charged Particle Therapy, National Institute of 
Radiological Sciences.

The rate of severe late adverse effects has decreased with the highly accurate 
administration of radiation therapy; however, the total number of patients who 
suffer from late effects has not decreased because of the increased total number 
of patients and better survival rates. Late adverse effects, occurring more than 
a few months after irradiation, include the extension and collapse of 
capillaries, thickening of the basement membrane, and scarring of tissue due to 
loss of peripheral vessels. The main causes of these late effects are the loss 
of stromal cells and vascular injury. This is in contrast to early reactions, 
which occur mainly due to the reorganization of slow-growing non-stem cell 
renewal systems such as the lung, kidney, heart, and central nervous system. In 
addition, the patient's quality of life is impaired if acute reactions such as 
mouth or skin dryness are not alleviated. Most adverse effects are radiation 
dose dependent, and the thresholds differ according to the radiosensitivity of 
each organ. These reactions occur with a latency period of a few months to more 
than 10 years. Understanding the clinical and pathological status, through 
discussion with radiation oncologists, is the essential first step. Some of the 
late effects have no effective treatment, but others can be treated by steroids 
or hyperbaric oxygen therapy. An appropriate decision is important.

PMID: 24423950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


66. Eur J Cancer. 2014 Apr;50(6):1100-11. doi: 10.1016/j.ejca.2013.12.018. Epub
2014  Jan 11.

Oropharyngeal cancers: relationship between epidermal growth factor receptor 
alterations and human papillomavirus status.

Mirghani H(1), Amen F(2), Moreau F(3), Guigay J(4), Hartl DM(5), Lacau St Guily 
J(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Institut de Cancérologie Gustave Roussy, 
Villejuif, France. Electronic address: haitham.mirghani@gustaveroussy.fr.
(2)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Institut de Cancérologie Gustave Roussy, 
Villejuif, France. Electronic address: furratamen@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Virology, Faculty of Medicine University Pierre et Marie Curie 
Paris VI and Hospital Tenon Assistance Publique Hôpitaux de Paris, France. 
Electronic address: Frederiquemoreau@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology, Institut de Cancérologie Gustave Roussy, 
Villejuif, France. Electronic address: Guiguay.joel@gustaveroussy.fr.
(5)Department of Head and Neck Surgery, Institut de Cancérologie Gustave Roussy, 
Villejuif, France. Electronic address: Dana.hartl@gustaveroussy.fr.
(6)Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, Faculty of Medicine 
University Pierre et Marie Curie Paris VI and Hospital Tenon Assistance Publique 
Hôpitaux de Paris, France. Electronic address: jean.lacau@tnn.aphp.fr.

High-risk human papillomavirus (HR-HPV), particularly type 16, is now recognised 
as a causative agent in a subset of oropharyngeal squamous cell carcinomas 
(OPSCCs). These tumours are on the increase and generally have a better 
prognosis than their HPV negative counterparts. This raises the question of de 
escalation therapy to reduce long term consequences in a younger cohort of 
patients with a long life expectancy. Several clinical trials with 
anti-epidermal growth factor receptor (EGFR) therapies, particularly cetuximab, 
are ongoing. Few data exist on the relationship between EGFR and HPV induced 
oropharyngeal cancers. We summarise the main studies in relation to EGFR 
alterations (gene copy number, protein expression and mutations) and the impact 
on prognosis of HPV positive tumours that express high levels of EGFR. We also 
discuss the opportunity of targeting this pathway in light of recent studies.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejca.2013.12.018
PMID: 24424107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


67. Ann Surg. 2015 Mar;261(3):565-72. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000000522.

Reduced population burden of road transport-related major trauma after 
introduction of an inclusive trauma system.

Gabbe BJ(1), Lyons RA, Fitzgerald MC, Judson R, Richardson J, Cameron PA.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, 
Melbourne, Victoria, Australia †College of Medicine, Swansea University, 
Swansea, Wales, UK ‡Trauma Centre, The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia §Trauma Service, Royal Melbourne Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia ¶Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia; and ‖Emergency and Trauma Centre, The Alfred Hospital, Melbourne, 
Victoria, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the burden of road transport-related serious injury in 
Victoria, Australia, over a 10-year period, after the introduction of an 
integrated trauma system.
BACKGROUND: Road traffic injury is a leading cause of death and disability 
worldwide. Efforts to improve care of the injured are important for reducing 
burden, but the impact of trauma care systems on burden and cost of road traffic 
injury has not been evaluated.
METHODS: All road transport-related deaths and major trauma (injury severity 
score >12) cases were extracted from population-based coroner and trauma 
registry data sets for July 2001 to June 2011. Modeling was used to assess 
changes in population incidence rates and odds of in-hospital mortality. 
Disability-adjusted life years, combining years of life lost and years lived 
with disability, were calculated. Cost of health loss was calculated from 
estimates of the value of a disability-adjusted life year.
RESULTS: Incidence of road transport-related deaths decreased (incidence rate 
ratio 0.95, 95% confidence interval: 0.94-0.96), whereas the incidence of 
hospitalized major trauma increased (incidence rate ratio 1.03, 95% confidence 
interval: 1.02-1.04). Years of life lost decreased by 43%, and years lived with 
disability increased by 32%, with an overall 28% reduction in 
disability-adjusted life years over the decade. There was a cost saving per case 
of A$633,446 in 2010-2011 compared with the 2001-2002 financial year.
CONCLUSIONS: Since introduction of the trauma system in Victoria, Australia, the 
burden of road transport-related serious injury has decreased. Hospitalized 
major trauma cases increased, whereas disability burden per case declined. 
Increased survival does not necessarily result in an overall increase in 
nonfatal injury burden.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000000522
PMCID: PMC4337622
PMID: 24424142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The funders had no role in study design, data 
collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation of the manuscript. 
The authors declare no conflicts of interest.


68. JAMA Intern Med. 2014 Mar;174(3):391-7. doi:
10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.13328.

Interpreting treatment effects from clinical trials in the context of real-world 
risk information: end-stage renal disease prevention in older adults.

O'Hare AM(1), Hotchkiss JR(2), Kurella Tamura M(3), Larson EB(4), Hemmelgarn 
BR(5), Batten A(6), Do TP(7), Covinsky KE(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Department of Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Healthcare 
System, Seattle, Washington2Department of Medicine, University of Washington, 
Seattle3Group Health Research Institute, Seattle, Washington.
(2)Veterans Engineering Resource Center, Department of Veterans Affairs 
Pittsburgh Healthcare System, Pittsburgh, Pennyslvania5Department of Medicine, 
University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.
(3)Department of Medicine, Department of Veterans Affairs Palo Alto Healthcare 
System, Palo Alto, California7Department of Medicine, Stanford University 
Medical Center, Palo Alto, California.
(4)Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle3Group Health 
Research Institute, Seattle, Washington.
(5)Department of Medicine, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.
(6)Department of Medicine, Department of Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Healthcare 
System, Seattle, Washington.
(7)Department of Medicine, Department of Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Healthcare 
System, Seattle, Washington9currently with Amgen, Thousand Oaks, California.
(8)Department of Medicine, Department of Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California11Department of Medicine, University of 
California, San Francisco.

Comment in
    JAMA Intern Med. 2014 Mar;174(3):397-8.

IMPORTANCE: Older adults are often excluded from clinical trials. The benefit of 
preventive interventions tested in younger trial populations may be reduced when 
applied to older adults in the clinical setting if they are less likely to 
survive long enough to experience those outcomes targeted by the intervention.
OBJECTIVE: To extrapolate a treatment effect similar to those reported in major 
randomized clinical trials of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and 
angiotensin II receptor blockers for prevention of end-stage renal disease 
(ESRD) to a real-world population of older patients with chronic kidney disease.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Simulation study in a retrospective cohort 
conducted in Department of Veterans Affairs medical centers. We included 371 470 
patients 70 years or older with chronic kidney disease.
EXPOSURE: Level of estimated glomerular filtration rate (eGFR) and proteinuria.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Among members of this cohort, we evaluated the 
expected effect of a 30% reduction in relative risk on the number needed to 
treat (NNT) to prevent 1 case of ESRD over a 3-year period. These limits were 
selected to mimic the treatment effect achieved in major trials of 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors and angiotensin II receptor blockers 
for prevention of ESRD. These trials have reported relative risk reductions of 
23% to 56% during observation periods of 2.6 to 3.4 years, yielding NNTs to 
prevent 1 case of ESRD of 9 to 25.
RESULTS: The NNT to prevent 1 case of ESRD among members of this cohort ranged 
from 16 in patients with the highest baseline risk (eGFR of 15-29 mL/min/1.73 
m(2) with a dipstick proteinuria measurement of ≥ 2+) to 2500 for those with the 
lowest baseline risk (eGFR of 45-59 mL/min/1.73 m(2) with negative or trace 
proteinuria and eGFR of ≥ 60 mL/min/1.73 m2 with dipstick proteinuria 
measurement of 1+). Most patients belonged to groups with an NNT of more than 
100, even when the exposure time was extended over 10 years and in all 
sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Differences in baseline risk and life expectancy 
between trial subjects and real-world populations of older adults with CKD may 
reduce the marginal benefit to individual patients of interventions to prevent 
ESRD.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2013.13328
PMCID: PMC4119007
PMID: 24424348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


69. Sci Rep. 2014 Jan 15;4:3703. doi: 10.1038/srep03703.

Higher limb asymmetry in deceased human fetuses and infants with aneuploidy.

Bots J(1), ten Broek CM(2), Belien JA(3), Bugiani M(3), Galis F(4), Van Dongen 
S(5).

Author information:
(1)1] Evolutionary Ecology Group, University of Antwerp, Groenenborgerlaan 171, 
B-2020 Antwerpen, Belgium [2].
(2)1] Evolutionary Ecology Group, University of Antwerp, Groenenborgerlaan 171, 
B-2020 Antwerpen, Belgium [2] Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Einsteinweg 2, 2333 
CC Leiden, the Netherlands [3].
(3)Department of Pathology, VU University Medical Centre, Amsterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(4)Naturalis Biodiversity Center, Einsteinweg 2, 2333 CC Leiden, the 
Netherlands.
(5)Evolutionary Ecology Group, University of Antwerp, Groenenborgerlaan 171, 
B-2020 Antwerpen, Belgium.

Aneuploidies cause gene-dosage imbalances that presumably result in a 
generalized decreased developmental homeostasis, which is expected to be 
detectable through an increase in fluctuating asymmetry (FA) of bilateral 
symmetric traits. However, support for the link between aneuploidy and FA is 
currently limited and no comparisons among different aneuploidies have been 
made. Here, we study FA in deceased human fetuses and infants from a 20-year 
hospital collection. Mean FA of limb bones was compared among groups of 
aneuploidies with different prenatal and postnatal survival chances and two 
reference groups (normal karyogram or no congenital anomalies). Limb asymmetry 
was 1.5 times higher for aneuploid cases with generally very short life 
expectancies (trisomy 13, trisomy 18, monosomy X, triploidy) than for trisomy 21 
patients and both reference groups with higher life expectancies. Thus, FA 
levels are highest in groups for which developmental disturbances have been 
highest. Our results show a significant relationship between fluctuating 
asymmetry, human genetic disorders and severity of the associated abnormalities.

DOI: 10.1038/srep03703
PMCID: PMC3892436
PMID: 24424506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


70. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2014 Jan;7(1):25-32. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.113.000397. Epub 2014 Jan 14.

Who needs laboratories and who needs statins?: comparative and 
cost-effectiveness analyses of non-laboratory-based, laboratory-based, and 
staged primary cardiovascular disease screening guidelines.

Pandya A(1), Weinstein MC, Salomon JA, Cutler D, Gaziano TA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Weill Cornell Medical College, New York, NY.

BACKGROUND: Early detection and treatment of cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk 
factors produces significant clinical benefits, but no consensus exists on 
optimal screening algorithms. This study aimed to evaluate the comparative and 
cost-effectiveness of staged laboratory-based and non-laboratory-based total CVD 
risk assessment.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We used receiver operating characteristic curve and 
cost-effectiveness modeling methods to compare strategies with and without 
laboratory components and used single-stage and multistage algorithms, including 
approaches based on Framingham risk scores (laboratory-based assessments for all 
individuals). Analyses were conducted using data from 5998 adults in the Third 
National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey without history of CVD using 
10-year CVD death as the main outcome. A microsimulation model projected 
lifetime costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for 60 Framingham-based, non-laboratory-based, and 
staged screening approaches. Across strategies, the area under the receiver 
operating characteristic curve was 0.774 to 0.780 in men and 0.812 to 0.834 in 
women. There were no statistically significant differences in area under the 
receiver operating characteristic curve between multistage and Framingham-based 
approaches. In cost-effectiveness analyses, multistage strategies had 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of $52,000/QALY and $83,000/QALY for men 
and women, respectively. Single-stage/Framingham-based strategies were dominated 
(higher cost and lower QALYs) or had unattractive incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratios (>$300,000/QALY) compared with single-stage/non-laboratory-based and 
multistage approaches.
CONCLUSIONS: Non-laboratory-based CVD risk assessment can be useful in primary 
CVD prevention as a substitute for laboratory-based assessments or as the 
initial component of a multistage approach. Cost-effective multistage screening 
strategies could avoid 25% to 75% of laboratory testing used in CVD risk 
screening with predictive power comparable with Framingham risks.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.113.000397
PMCID: PMC3971865
PMID: 24425701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: Milton C. Weinstein has a 
consulting relationship with Optuminsight, a company that does economic analyses 
for the pharmaceutical and device industries. All other authors report no 
conflict of interest disclosures.


71. J Food Sci Technol. 2013 Oct;50(5):993-9. doi: 10.1007/s13197-011-0426-9.
Epub  2011 Jun 10.

Optimization of process variables for instant preparation of neyyappam like 
product and extension of shelf-life.

Yadav DN(1), Shain TK(2), Sharma GK(2).

Author information:
(1)Defence Food Research Laboratory, Siddarthanagr, Mysore, 570 011 India ; Food 
Grains and Oilseeds Processing Division, Central Institute of Post Harvest 
Engineering and Technology, Ludhiana, 141 004 India.
(2)Defence Food Research Laboratory, Siddarthanagr, Mysore, 570 011 India.

Neyyappam is a very popular traditional sweet of Kerala and Tamilnadu. It is 
prepared from soaked rice (10-12 h) and had limited shelf-life. Response surface 
methodology was adopted to optimize, the levels of variables i.e. jaggery, 
baking powder and holding time based on quantity of rice with selected responses 
i.e. hardness, bulk density and overall acceptability. All the three variables 
i.e. jaggery, baking powder and holding time had negative effect (p ≤ 0.05) on 
hardness at linear level. Bulk density was also negatively affected (p ≤ 0.05) 
by jaggery and baking powder. However, the overall acceptability was positively 
affected (p ≤ 0.05) by jaggery and baking powder. It was recommended to use 
jaggery 90 g/100 g rice flour, baking powder 1.5 g/100 g rice flour and holding 
time of 13.0 min. Optimized samples were packed in polyethylene pouches, heat 
treated in a cabinet dryer at 90°C for 2 h, stored under ambient temperature 
conditions along with control and monitored for peroxide value, free fatty acids 
and thiobarbutyric acid values as well as microbiological, sensory and textural 
changes. It was observed that control samples had visible yeast and mould growth 
at 3rd day, while the treated ones remained highly acceptable up to 30 days with 
respect to chemical, textural, sensory and microbiological changes.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-011-0426-9
PMCID: PMC3722410
PMID: 24426008


72. Front Endocrinol (Lausanne). 2013 Dec 31;4:203. doi:
10.3389/fendo.2013.00203.  eCollection 2013.

Profiling, Bioinformatic, and Functional Data on the Developing Olfactory/GnRH 
System Reveal Cellular and Molecular Pathways Essential for This Process and 
Potentially Relevant for the Kallmann Syndrome.

Garaffo G(1), Provero P(1), Molineris I(1), Pinciroli P(2), Peano C(3), 
Battaglia C(4), Tomaiuolo D(1), Etzion T(5), Gothilf Y(5), Santoro M(1), Merlo 
GR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biotechnology and Health Science, University of 
Torino , Torino , Italy.
(2)Department of Medical Biotechnology Translational Medicine (BIOMETRA), 
University of Milano , Milano , Italy.
(3)Institute of Biomedical Technology, National Research Council, ITB-CNR , 
Segrate , Italy.
(4)Department of Medical Biotechnology Translational Medicine (BIOMETRA), 
University of Milano , Milano , Italy ; Institute of Biomedical Technology, 
National Research Council, ITB-CNR , Segrate , Italy.
(5)The George S. Wise Faculty of Life Sciences, Department of Neurobiology, 
Tel-Aviv University , Tel-Aviv , Israel.

During embryonic development, immature neurons in the olfactory epithelium (OE) 
extend axons through the nasal mesenchyme, to contact projection neurons in the 
olfactory bulb. Axon navigation is accompanied by migration of the GnRH+ 
neurons, which enter the anterior forebrain and home in the septo-hypothalamic 
area. This process can be interrupted at various points and lead to the onset of 
the Kallmann syndrome (KS), a disorder characterized by anosmia and central 
hypogonadotropic hypogonadism. Several genes has been identified in human and 
mice that cause KS or a KS-like phenotype. In mice a set of transcription 
factors appears to be required for olfactory connectivity and GnRH neuron 
migration; thus we explored the transcriptional network underlying this 
developmental process by profiling the OE and the adjacent mesenchyme at three 
embryonic ages. We also profiled the OE from embryos null for Dlx5, a homeogene 
that causes a KS-like phenotype when deleted. We identified 20 interesting genes 
belonging to the following categories: (1) transmembrane adhesion/receptor, (2) 
axon-glia interaction, (3) scaffold/adapter for signaling, (4) synaptic 
proteins. We tested some of them in zebrafish embryos: the depletion of five (of 
six) Dlx5 targets affected axonal extension and targeting, while three (of 
three) affected GnRH neuron position and neurite organization. Thus, we 
confirmed the importance of cell-cell and cell-matrix interactions and 
identified new molecules needed for olfactory connection and GnRH neuron 
migration. Using available and newly generated data, we predicted/prioritized 
putative KS-disease genes, by building conserved co-expression networks with all 
known disease genes in human and mouse. The results show the overall validity of 
approaches based on high-throughput data and predictive bioinformatics to 
identify genes potentially relevant for the molecular pathogenesis of KS. A 
number of candidate will be discussed, that should be tested in future mutation 
screens.

DOI: 10.3389/fendo.2013.00203
PMCID: PMC3876029
PMID: 24427155


73. Sports Health. 2013 May;5(3):225-32. doi: 10.1177/1941738113480936.

Nonoperative treatment in lumbar spondylolysis and spondylolisthesis: a 
systematic review.

Garet M(1), Reiman MP(1), Mathers J(1), Sylvain J(1).

Author information:
(1)Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.

CONTEXT: Both spondylolysis and spondylolisthesis can be diagnosed across the 
life span of sports-participating individuals. Determining which treatments are 
effective for these conditions is imperative to the rehabilitation professional.
DATA SOURCES: A computer-assisted literature search was completed in MEDLINE, 
CINAHL, and EMBASE databases (1966-April 2012) utilizing keywords related to 
nonoperative treatment of spondylolysis and/or spondylolisthesis. Reference 
lists were also searched to find all relevant articles that fit our inclusion 
criteria: English language, human, lumbar pain with diagnosed spondylolysis 
and/or spondylolisthesis, inclusion of at least 1 nonoperative treatment method, 
and use of a comparative study design.
DATA EXTRACTION: Data were independently extracted from the selected studies by 
2 authors and cross-referenced. Any disagreement on relevant data was discussed 
and resolved by a third author.
RESULTS: Ten studies meeting the criteria were rated for quality using the GRADE 
scale. Four studies found surgical intervention more successful than 
nonoperative treatment for treating pain and functional limitation. One study 
found no difference between surgery and nonoperative treatment with regard to 
future low back pain. Improvement was found in bracing, bracing and exercises 
emphasizing lumbar extension, range of motion and strengthening exercises 
focusing on lumbar flexion, and strengthening specific abdominal and lumbar 
muscles.
CONCLUSION: No consensus can be reached on the role of nonoperative versus 
surgical care because of limited investigation and heterogeneity of studies 
reported. Studies of nonoperative care options suffered from lack of blinding 
assessors and control groups and decreased patient compliance with exercise 
programs.

