(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition, Cincinnati 
Children's Hospital Medical Center, Cincinnati, Ohio.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpeds.2013.09.053
PMID: 24560318 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. Vaccine. 2014 Apr 7;32(17):1964-74. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.01.061. Epub
 2014 Feb 20.

Cost-effectiveness of childhood rotavirus vaccination in Germany.

Aidelsburger P(1), Grabein K(2), Böhm K(2), Dietl M(2), Wasem J(3), Koch J(4), 
Ultsch B(5), Weidemann F(4), Wichmann O(4).

Author information:
(1)CAREM GmbH, Sauerlach, Germany. Electronic address: p.aidelsburger@carem.de.
(2)CAREM GmbH, Sauerlach, Germany.
(3)Institute for Healthcare Management, University of Duisburg-Essen, Essen, 
Germany.
(4)Immunization Unit, Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany.
(5)Immunization Unit, Robert Koch Institute, Berlin, Germany; Charité University 
Medicine, Berlin, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Rotavirus (RV) causes a highly contagious gastroenteritis especially 
in children under five years of age. Since 2006 two RV-vaccines are available in 
Europe (Rotarix(®) and RotaTeq(®)). To support informed decision-making within 
the German Standing Committee on Vaccination (STIKO) the cost-effectiveness of 
these two vaccines was evaluated for the German healthcare setting.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness from 
the statutory health insurance (SHI) and from the societal perspective. RV-cases 
prevented, RV-associated hospitalizations avoided, and quality-adjusted life 
years (QALY) gained were considered as health outcomes. RV-incidences were 
calculated based on data from the national mandatory disease reporting system. 
RV-vaccine efficacy was determined as pooled estimates based on data from 
randomized controlled trials. Vaccine list prices and price catalogues were used 
for cost-assessment. Effects and costs were discounted with an annual discount 
rate of 3%.
RESULTS: The base-case analysis (SHI-perspective) resulted in an incremental 
cost-effectiveness and cost-utility ratio for Rotarix(®) of € 184 per RV-case 
prevented, € 2457 per RV-associated hospitalization avoided, and € 116,973 per 
QALY gained. For RotaTeq(®), the results were € 234 per RV-case prevented, € 
2622 per RV-associated hospitalization avoided, and € 142,732 per QALY gained. 
Variation of various parameters in sensitivity analyses showed effects on the 
ICERs without changing the overall trend of base-case results. When applying 
base-case results to the 2012 birthcohort in Germany with 80% vaccination 
coverage, an estimated 206,000-242,000 RV-cases and 18,000 RV-associated 
hospitalizations can be prevented in this birthcohort over five years for an 
incremental cost of 44.5-48.2 million €.
CONCLUSION: Our analyses demonstrate that routine RV-vaccination could prevent a 
substantial number of RV-cases and hospitalizations in the German healthcare 
system, but the saved treatment costs are counteracted by costs for vaccination. 
However, with vaccine prices reduced by ∼62-66%, RV-vaccination could even 
become a cost-saving preventive measure.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.01.061
PMID: 24561052 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. Int J Biochem Cell Biol. 2014 Jul;52:192-200. doi:
10.1016/j.biocel.2014.02.008.  Epub 2014 Feb 20.

Cystic fibrosis: toward personalized therapies.

Ikpa PT(1), Bijvelds MJ(1), de Jonge HR(2).

Author information:
(1)Erasmus MC-University Medical Center Rotterdam, Department of 
Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(2)Erasmus MC-University Medical Center Rotterdam, Department of 
Gastroenterology & Hepatology, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
h.dejonge@erasmusmc.nl.

Cystic fibrosis (CF), the most common, life-threatening monogenetic disease in 
Caucasians, is caused by mutations in the CFTR gene, encoding a cAMP- and 
cGMP-regulated epithelial chloride channel. Symptomatic therapies treating 
end-organ manifestations have increased the life expectancy of CF patients 
toward a mean of 40 years. The recent development of CFTR-targeted drugs that 
emerged from high-throughput screening and are capable of correcting the basic 
defect promises to transform the therapeutic landscape from a trial-and-error 
prescription to personalized medicine. This stratified approach is tailored to a 
specific functional class of mutations in CFTR, but can be refined further to an 
individual level by exploiting recent advances in ex vivo drug testing methods. 
These tests range from CFTR functional measurements in rectal biopsies donated 
by a CF patient to the use of patient-derived intestinal or pulmonary organoids. 
Such organoids may serve as an inexhaustible source of epithelial cells that can 
be stored in biobanks and allow medium- to high-throughput screening of CFTR 
activators, correctors and potentiators on the basis of a simple microscopic 
assay monitoring organoid swelling. Thus the recent breakthrough in stem cell 
biology allowing the culturing of mini-organs from individual patients is not 
only relevant for future stem cell therapy, but may also allow the preclinical 
testing of new drugs or combinations that are optimally suited for an individual 
patient.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biocel.2014.02.008
PMID: 24561283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2014 May;80(9):2763-72. doi: 10.1128/AEM.00006-14.
Epub  2014 Feb 21.

Effects of metal ions on stability and activity of hyperthermophilic pyrolysin 
and further stabilization of this enzyme by modification of a Ca2+-binding site.

Zeng J(1), Gao X, Dai Z, Tang B, Tang XF.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Virology, College of Life Sciences, Wuhan University, 
Wuhan, China.

Pyrolysin is an extracellular subtilase produced by the marine hyperthermophilic 
archaeon Pyrococcus furiosus. This enzyme functions at high temperatures in 
seawater, but little is known about the effects of metal ions on the properties 
of pyrolysin. Here, we report that the supplementation of Na(+), Ca(2+), or 
Mg(2+) salts at concentrations similar to those in seawater destabilizes 
recombinant pyrolysin but leads to an increase in enzyme activity. The 
destabilizing effect of metal ions on pyrolysin appears to be related to the 
disturbance of surface electrostatic interactions of the enzyme. In addition, 
mutational analysis of two predicted high-affinity Ca(2+)-binding sites (Ca1 and 
Ca2) revealed that the binding of Ca(2+) is important for the stabilization of 
this enzyme. Interestingly, Asn substitutions at residues Asp818 and Asp820 of 
the Ca2 site, which is located in the C-terminal extension of pyrolysin, 
resulted in improvements in both enzyme thermostability and activity without 
affecting Ca(2+)-binding affinity. These effects were most likely due to the 
elimination of unfavorable electrostatic repulsion at the Ca2 site. Together, 
these results suggest that metal ions play important roles in modulating the 
stability and activity of pyrolysin.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.00006-14
PMCID: PMC3993279
PMID: 24561589 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. EuroIntervention. 2014 Feb;9(10):1241-3. doi: 10.4244/EIJV9I10A208.

Tools and techniques - statistics: comments on a cost-effectiveness study of 
TAVI for patients with inoperable aortic stenosis.

Redekop WK(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

DOI: 10.4244/EIJV9I10A208
PMID: 24561740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Cell Mol Life Sci. 2014 Sep;71(18):3611-26. doi: 10.1007/s00018-014-1591-6.
Epub  2014 Feb 23.

The amino terminus extension in the long dipeptidyl peptidase 9 isoform contains 
a nuclear localization signal targeting the active peptidase to the nucleus.

Justa-Schuch D(1), Möller U, Geiss-Friedlander R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biology, Faculty of Medicine, Georg-August-University 
of Goettingen, Humboldtallee 23, 37073, Goettingen, Germany.

The intracellular prolyl peptidase DPP9 is implied to be involved in various 
cellular pathways including amino acid recycling, antigen maturation, cellular 
homeostasis, and viability. Interestingly, the major RNA transcript of DPP9 
contains two possible translation initiation sites, which could potentially 
generate a longer (892 aa) and a shorter version (863 aa) of DPP9. Although the 
endogenous expression of the shorter DPP9 form has been previously verified, it 
is unknown whether the longer version is expressed, and what is its biological 
significance. By developing specific antibodies against the amino-terminal 
extension of the putative DPP9-long form, we demonstrate for the first time the 
endogenous expression of this longer isoform within cells. Furthermore, we show 
that DPP9-long represents a significant fraction of total DPP9 in cells, under 
steady-state conditions. Using biochemical cell fractionation assays in 
combination with immunofluorescence studies, we find the two isoforms localize 
to separate subcellular compartments. Whereas DPP9-short is present in the 
cytosol, DPP9-long localizes preferentially to the nucleus. This differential 
localization is attributed to a classical monopartite nuclear localization 
signal (K(K/R)X(K/R)) in the N-terminal extension of DPP9-long. Furthermore, we 
detect prolyl peptidase activity in nuclear fractions, which can be inhibited by 
specific DPP8/9 inhibitors. In conclusion, a considerable fraction of DPP9, 
which was previously considered as a purely cytosolic peptidase, localizes to 
the nucleus and is active there, raising the intriguing possibility that the 
longer DPP9 isoform may regulate the activity or stability of nuclear proteins, 
such as transcription factors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00018-014-1591-6
PMID: 24562348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Osteoporos Int. 2014 Apr;25(4):1305-11. doi: 10.1007/s00198-013-2593-1. Epub
 2014 Feb 22.

One-leg standing time and hip-fracture prediction.

Lundin H(1), Sääf M, Strender LE, Nyren S, Johansson SE, Salminen H.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Family Medicine (CeFAM), Karolinska Institutet, Alfred Nobels allé 
12, 141 83 Huddinge, Stockholm, Sweden, hans.cefam@gmail.com.

A hip fracture results in a lower quality of life and a cost of £30,000. In this 
study, one-leg standing time (OLST) had a negative linear relationship to the 
risk of a hip fracture. OLST could be a useful tool to assess the need for 
fracture-preventive interventions.
INTRODUCTION: A hip fracture immobilizes, restricts autonomy, shortens life 
expectancy, and results in a cost of £30,000 in the UK health care system. 
However, effective preventive treatments can be offered to high-risk 
individuals. Impaired postural balance is an important risk factor for hip 
fractures, and the aim of this study was to evaluate whether OLST can predict 
hip fractures in elderly women. FRAX is the most established fracture risk 
assessment tool worldwide and a secondary aim was to relate the predictive 
ability of OLST to that of FRAX in this population.
METHODS: Three hundred fifty-one women aged between 69 and 79 years were timed 
standing on one leg up to 30 s with eyes open and assessed with FRAX. Fracture 
data was obtained from registers.
RESULTS: The main outcome, a hip fracture, occurred in 40 of the 351 
participants (11.4%). The age-adjusted risk of a hip fracture was 5% lower with 
1 s longer OLST (Hazard ratio 0.95, 95% CI 0.927-0.978). The relation between 
OLST and hip fracture risk was linear. Harrell's c was 0.60 for FRAX and 0.68 
for OLST adjusted for age.
CONCLUSION: With 1 s longer OLST, the risk of a hip fracture decreased 
significantly by 5%. This risk reduction was not explained by differences in the 
classic fracture risk factors included in FRAX. OLST had a predictive ability 
similar to FRAX. OLST is an easily performed balance test which may prove to be 
valuable in the assessment of hip fracture risk.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-013-2593-1
PMID: 24562837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Circ Heart Fail. 2014 May;7(3):470-8. doi:
10.1161/CIRCHEARTFAILURE.113.000807.  Epub 2014 Feb 21.

Comparative survival and cost-effectiveness of advanced therapies for end-stage 
heart failure.

Long EF(1), Swain GW(1), Mangi AA(2).

Author information:
(1)From Decisions, Operations & Technology Management, UCLA Anderson School of 
Management, Los Angeles, CA (E.F.L.); Department of Surgery, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY (G.W.S.); and Section of Cardiac Surgery, 
Department of Surgery, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT (A.A.M.).
(2)From Decisions, Operations & Technology Management, UCLA Anderson School of 
Management, Los Angeles, CA (E.F.L.); Department of Surgery, Icahn School of 
Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, NY (G.W.S.); and Section of Cardiac Surgery, 
Department of Surgery, Yale School of Medicine, New Haven, CT (A.A.M.). 
abeel.mangi@yale.edu.

BACKGROUND: Treatment options for end-stage heart failure include 
inotrope-dependent medical therapy, orthotopic heart transplantation (OHT), left 
ventricular assist device (LVAD) as destination therapy or bridge to transplant.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We developed a state-transition model to simulate 4 
treatment options and associated morbidity and mortality. Transition 
probabilities, costs, and utilities were estimated from published sources. 
Calculated outcomes included survival, quality-adjusted life-years, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness. Sensitivity analyses were performed on model 
parameters to test robustness. Average life expectancy for OHT-eligible patients 
is estimated at 1.1 years, with 39% surviving to 1 year. OHT with a median wait 
time of 5.6 months is estimated to increase life expectancy to 8.5 years, and 
costs <$100,000/quality-adjusted life-year gained, relative to 
inotrope-dependent medical therapy. Bridge to transplant-LVAD followed by OHT 
further is estimated to increase life expectancy to 12.3 years, for 
$226,000/quality-adjusted life-year gained versus OHT. Among OHT-ineligible 
patients, mean life expectancy with inotrope-dependent medical therapy is 
estimated at 9.4 months, with 26% surviving to 1 year. Patients who instead 
received destination therapy-LVAD are estimated to live 4.4 years on average 
from extrapolation of recent constant hazard rates beyond the first year. This 
strategy costs $202,000/quality-adjusted life-year gained, relative to 
inotrope-dependent medical therapy. Patient's age, time on wait list, and costs 
associated with care influence outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: Under most scenarios, OHT prolongs life and is cost effective in 
eligible patients. Bridge to transplant-LVAD is estimated to offer >3.8 
additional life-years for patients waiting ≥6 months, but does not meet 
conventional cost-effectiveness thresholds. Destination therapy-LVAD 
significantly improves life expectancy in OHT-ineligible patients. However, 
further reductions in adverse events or improved quality of life are needed for 
destination therapy-LVAD to be cost effective.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCHEARTFAILURE.113.000807
PMID: 24563450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Aust Fam Physician. 2014 Jan-Feb;43(1):73-4.

A is for aphorism. 'A normal person is only someone who hasn't been investigated 
enough yet'.

Doust J(1).

Author information:
(1)BMBS, PhD, FRACGP, is Professor, Centre for Research in Evidence Based 
Practice, Bond University, Gold Coast, Queensland.

Every year I read many applications for research grants, mostly for the National 
Health and Medical Research Council (NHMRC). Most start in roughly the same way: 
an estimate of the number of people suffering from the disease in question and 
the cost of the disease to the economy. From reading these applications, one 
would think the health of Australians is in crisis and the economic effects of 
ill health devastating. The evidence, however, is quite the reverse. Australians 
currently enjoy one of the longest life expectancies in human history. Adult 
male mortality rates have fallen from 207 per 1000 male adults in 1970 to 81 in 
2009; female mortality rates have fallen from 117 to 47 in the same period. 
These trends continue to improve. There has been a spectacular decline in the 
prevalence of cardiovascular disease in Australia from the levels seen in the 
1960s and 1970s. In the 2011-2013 Australian health survey, over half of the 
population rated their health as very good or excellent; there had been no 
change from 5 years previously, despite the ageing of the population. Even in 
the age group of 85 years and over, 60% rate their health as good to excellent.

PMID: 24563901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Mo Med. 2013 Nov-Dec;110(6):450-1.

Interesting statistics about the U.S. health care system.

Physicians Health Foundation.

Comment in
    Mo Med. 2014 Jan-Feb;111(1):14-6.
    Mo Med. 2014 Jan-Feb;111(1):16.
    Mo Med. 2014 Jan-Feb;111(1):16.

PMCID: PMC6179808
PMID: 24563987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Mo Med. 2013 Nov-Dec;110(6):499-504.

Obesity: the 'huge' problem in cardiovascular diseases.

Ashraf MJ(1), Baweja P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Cardiology Division at the Truman Medical Center and 
the University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Medicine, USA. 
Javed.Ashraf@tmcmed.org
(2)Department of Medicine, Cardiology Division at the Truman Medical Center and 
the University of Missouri-Kansas City School of Medicine, USA.

Obesity is an epidemic in the United States. It is an independent risk factor 
for cardiovascular diseases and associated with reduced life expectancy. The 
adverse effects are related to direct impact of obesity on cardiovascular system 
and indirectly through its influence on risk factors. Excessive accumulation of 
adipose tissue in the myocardium leads to structural and functional alteration. 
In addition, numerous hormones secreted by adipose tissue create 
pro-inflammatory and prothrombotic state. This predisposes to coronary heart 
disease, heart failure, and sudden death. Even those with normal weight but 
excessive body fat are at risk. Weight reduction and exercise are the main 
therapeutic options.

PMCID: PMC6179812
PMID: 24564002 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


433. West Indian Med J. 2013 Mar;62(3):244-9.

Cuba: healthcare and the revolution.

Binns LA(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Interdisciplinary Studies, The Union Institute and 
University, Cincinnati, Ohio, USA. labenz@dr.com

This paper depicts Cuba as a relic of the Cold War Its coverage of healthcare 
demonstrates steadfastness and success in surmounting hurdles of complacency and 
disregard to socialized medicine - an extension of Soviet patronage and third 
world alliances. The literature relays a mission of inclusivity underpinned by 
political ideology and a conviction to humanity. With the aid ofendorsements, it 
speaks to contrasts and critiques in service and results by reflecting on the 
delivery offree healthcare for all Cuban citizens and its impression on the 
eradication of numerous diseases, reduced mortality rate and increased life 
expectancy. Punished by the longest trade embargo in modern history, the regime 
is in possession of limited resources to expedite remedy to its subjects. Such, 
much to the dislike of the authorities, elevates elements of distinction in 
association with the dispensation of service and drugs demonstrated by an 
evolving two-tier system for the disenfranchised and privileged clientele while 
simultaneously impacting the maintenance of facilities and equipment. 
Consequently, it recognizes harsh ramifications attributed to compliance with 
ideology and subtle adjustments to withstand external exertion. The Cuban 
replica is currently a tale of sorts awaiting a comprehensible definition for 
future generations.

PMID: 24564047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


434. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Apr;14(2):175-9. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.891444. Epub 2014 Feb 25.

The economics of abiraterone acetate for castration-resistant prostate cancer.

Dellis A(1), Papatsoris AG.

Author information:
(1)University Department of Urology, Sismanoglio General Hospital, Athens, 
Greece.

Abiraterone acetate is an oral medication that has recently been granted 
approval for the treatment of metastatic castration resistant prostate cancer 
(mCRPC) prior and/or after chemotherapy with docetaxel. In this article we 
assess the economics of abiraterone acetate in mCRPC. Relevant studies 
demonstrated that abiraterone acetate had a minimal budget impact on health 
plans. A relevant advantage was the cost savings due to the lack of 
chemotherapy-related side effects as well as the ease of administration. The 
results of cost/benefit comparative studies with other novel agents (i.e. 
cabazitaxel, enzalutamide, sipuleucel-T) are warranted as well as the close 
collaboration between urologists and medical oncologists.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.891444
PMID: 24564607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


435. Vnitr Lek. 2014 Jan;60(1):30-7.

[Familial Mediterranean fever - clinical picture, diagnosis and treatment].

[Article in Czech]

Dallos T, Ilenčíková D, Kovács L.

Comment in
    Vnitr Lek. 2014 Jan;60(1):17-9.

Familial mediterranean fever (FMF) is the most prevalent genetically determined 
autoinflammatory disease. FMF significantly decreases the quality of life and 
limits life expectancy due to the development of amyloidosis in affected 
individuals. Prevalence of FMF is highest in the south-eastern Mediterraneans. 
In other parts of the world, its occurance is often restricted to high-risk 
ethnic goups. In Central Europe, experience with FMF is scarse. As for Slovakia, 
we have reported the first cases of FMF in ethnic Slovaks only recently. Along 
with their complicated fates, this has lead us to compile a comprehensive 
overview of the clinical picture, diagnosis and treatment of this elusive 
disease. Hereby we hope to be able to promote the awareness about this disease 
and possibly aid the diagnosis in new patients.

PMID: 24564774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


436. Vnitr Lek. 2014 Jan;60(1):80-5.

[Familial Mediterranean fever - first experiences in Slovakia].

[Article in Czech]

Dallos T, Gálová LL, Macejková E, Sedlačko J, Toplak N, Debeljak M, Sargsyan H, 
Ilenčíková D, Kovács L.

Comment in
    Vnitr Lek. 2014 Jan;60(1):17-9.

Familial Mediterranean fever (FMF) is the most prevalent genetically determined 
autoinflammatory disease. FMF significantly decreases the quality of life and 
limits life expectancy due to the development of amyloidosis in affected 
individuals. Prevalence of FMF is highest in the south-eastern Mediterraneans. 
In other parts of the world, its occurance is often restricted to high-risk 
ethnic groups. In Central Europe, experience with FMF is scarse to none, as in 
the case of Slovakia, where no cases have been reported, so far. Herein we 
report the first five patients (3 adults and 2 children, 4 native Slovaks) in 
whom the diagnosis of FMF could be confirmed in Slovakia. Our experience 
demonstrates that FMF does occur in low-risk populations in Central Europe. Due 
to low prevalence and lack of experience, FMF diagnosis may be significantly 
delayed (4.5-30 years) and undiagnosed cases are to be expected in our 
population.

PMID: 24564780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


437. BMC Syst Biol. 2013;7 Suppl 2(Suppl 2):S5. doi: 10.1186/1752-0509-7-S2-S5.
Epub  2013 Oct 14.

Investigation of anti-cancer mechanisms by comparative analysis of naked mole 
rat and rat.

Yang Z, Zhang Y, Chen L.

BACKGROUND: The naked mole rats (NMRs) are small-sized underground rodents with 
plenty of unusual traits. Their life expectancy can be up to thirty years, more 
than seven times longer than laboratory rat. Furthermore, they are resistant to 
both congenital and experimentally induced cancer genesis. These peculiar 
physiological and pathological characteristics allow them to become a suitable 
model for cancer and aging research.
RESULTS: In this paper, we carried out a genome-wide comparative analysis of rat 
and NMR using the recently published genome sequence of NMR. First, we 
identified all the rat-NMR orthologous genes and specific genes within each of 
them. The expanded and contracted numbers of protein families in NMR were also 
analyzed when compared to rat. Seven cancer-related protein families appeared to 
be significantly expanded, whereas several receptor families were found to be 
contracted in NMR. We then chose those rat genes that were inexistent in NMR and 
adopted KEGG pathway database to investigate the metabolic processes in which 
their proteins may be involved. These genes were significantly enriched in two 
rat cancer pathways, "Pathway in cancer" and "Bladder cancer". In the rat 
"Pathway in cancer", 9 out of 14 paths leading to evading apoptosis appeared to 
be affected in NMR. In addition, a significant number of other NMR-missing genes 
enriched in several cancer-related pathways have been known to be related to a 
variety of cancers, implying that many of them may be also related to 
tumorigenesis in mammals. Finally, investigation of sequence variations among 
orthologous proteins between rat and NMR revealed that significant fragment 
insertions/deletions within important functional domains were present in some 
NMR proteins, which might lead to expressional and/or functional changes of 
these genes in different species.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, this study provides insights into understanding the 
possible anti-cancer mechanisms of NMR as well as searching for new 
cancer-related candidate genes.

DOI: 10.1186/1752-0509-7-S2-S5
PMCID: PMC3852044
PMID: 24565050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


438. Soc Sci Med. 2014 Feb;102:10-7. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.11.031. Epub
2013  Nov 21.

Mobilising "vulnerability" in the public health response to pandemic influenza.

Stephenson N(1), Davis M(2), Flowers P(3), MacGregor C(4), Waller E(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health & Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia. Electronic address: 
n.stephenson@unsw.edu.au.
(2)School of Political & Social Inquiry, Faculty of Arts, Monash University, VIC 
3800, Australia.
(3)School of Health and Life Sciences, Glasgow Caledonian University, 
Cowcaddens, Glasgow, Lanarkshire G4 0BA, Scotland.
(4)School of Public Health & Community Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, The 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, NSW 2052, Australia.

Analysis of public health's growing interest in "vulnerability" has largely 
focused on health policy, with little interrogation of how vulnerability is 
being actively appropriated, countered, ignored or reworked by the publics whose 
health such policy is designed to protect. Once the assemblage of public health 
is understood as comprised of different forms of expertise and actors, including 
publics, addressing this gap matters. We examine the use of vulnerability in the 
specific context of pandemic influenza preparedness. Pandemic preparedness 
raises some familiar dilemmas for public health governance: how to engage with 
publics without fuelling social divisions and disruption; and whether to invoke 
publics as passive recipients of public health advice or to recognise publics as 
collective agents responding to the threat of pandemic influenza. Thus, we ask 
how the mobilisation of vulnerability connects with these dilemmas. To examine 
vulnerability in pandemic preparedness, two forms of qualitative data are 
analysed: 1) interviews and focus groups with "vulnerable" and "healthy" people 
(conducted 2011-12) discussing seasonal and pandemic influenza and; 2) 
international, Australian national and state level pandemic plans (1999-2013). 
Vulnerability is variously used in plans as a way to identify groups at 
particular risk of infection because of pre-existing clinical conditions, and as 
a free-floating social category that could apply to a broad range of people 
potentially involved in the social disruption a pandemic might entail. Our 
interview and focus group data indicate that healthy people rework the 
free-floating extension of vulnerability, and that people designated vulnerable 
encounter an absence of any collective responsibility for the threat of pandemic 
influenza. Our analysis suggests that vulnerability's mobilisation in pandemic 
preparedness limits the connection between public health governance and its 
publics: here, the openness and unpredictability of people's collective agency 
is something to be tightly controlled by a government concerned with protecting 
people from themselves.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2013.11.031
PMID: 24565136 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


439. Vet Pathol. 2014 Nov;51(6):1143-50. doi: 10.1177/0300985813516645. Epub 2014
Feb  24.

Renal morphology in cats with diabetes mellitus.

Zini E(1), Benali S(2), Coppola L(3), Guscetti F(4), Ackermann M(5), Lutz TA(6), 
Reusch CE(7), Aresu L(2).

Author information:
(1)Clinic for Small Animal Internal Medicine, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of 
Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse, Zurich, Switzerland Department of Animal Medicine, 
Production and Health, University of Padova, Padova, Italy Istituto Veterinario 
di Novara, Novara, Italy ezini@vetclinics.uzh.ch.
(2)Department of Comparative Biomedicine and Food Sciences, University of 
Padova, Padova, Italy.
(3)Department of Animal Medicine, Production and Health, University of Padova, 
Padova, Italy.
(4)Institute of Veterinary Pathology, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Zurich, 
Zurich, Switzerland.
(5)Institute of Virology, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Zurich, Zurich, 
Switzerland.
(6)Institute of Veterinary Physiology, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of Zurich, 
Zurich, Switzerland.
(7)Clinic for Small Animal Internal Medicine, Vetsuisse Faculty, University of 
Zurich, Winterthurerstrasse, Zurich, Switzerland.

In humans, diabetes mellitus (DM) is an important cause of renal damage, with 
glomerular lesions being predominant. In cats, although diabetes is a common 
endocrinopathy, it is yet unknown whether it leads to renal damage. The aim of 
the study was to compare renal histologic features and parameters of renal 
function in diabetic cats against a control population matched for age, gender, 
breed, and body weight. Thirty-two diabetic and 20 control cats were included. 
Kidney sections from paraffin-embedded kidney samples were stained and examined 
with optical microscopy to identify glomerular, tubulointerstitial, and vascular 
lesions and to assess their frequency and severity. Serum creatinine and urea 
concentrations were also compared. Glomerular lesions were observed in 29 cats 
overall, with mesangial matrix increase being more common (19 cats). 
Tubulointerstitial lesions were observed in 42 cats, including lymphocytic 
infiltration (29), fibrosis (22), or tubular necrosis (21). Vascular lesions 
were observed in 5 cases. The frequency and severity of histologic lesions did 
not differ between diabetic and control cats; however, among diabetics, those 
that survived longer after diagnosis had more glomerular and vascular lesions. 
Serum creatinine and urea concentrations were similar between groups; in 
diabetic cats median creatinine was 109 μmol/l (range, 51-1200) and urea was 12 
mmol/l (range, 4-63), and in controls creatinine was 126 μmol/l (range, 50-875) 
and urea 11 mmol/l (range, 3-80). The results suggest that DM in cats does not 
lead to microscopically detectable kidney lesions or clinically relevant renal 
dysfunction. The authors hypothesize that the short life expectancy of diabetic 
cats may be the main reason for the difference from human diabetics.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0300985813516645
PMID: 24565829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


440. Joint Bone Spine. 2014 Oct;81(5):386-91. doi: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2014.01.014.
Epub  2014 Feb 22.

Endothelial dysfunction in joint disease.

Prati C(1), Demougeot C(2), Guillot X(3), Godfrin-Valnet M(3), Wendling D(4).

Author information:
(1)Service de Rhumatologie, CHRU de Besançon, Besançon, France; EA 4267 
Fonctions et Dysfonctions Épithéliales, Université de Franche-Comté, 
Franche-Comté, France. Electronic address: praticlement@gmail.com.
(2)EA 4267 Fonctions et Dysfonctions Épithéliales, Université de Franche-Comté, 
Franche-Comté, France.
(3)Service de Rhumatologie, CHRU de Besançon, Besançon, France.
(4)Service de Rhumatologie, CHRU de Besançon, Besançon, France; EA 4266 Agents 
Pathogènes et Inflammation, Université de Franche-Comté, Franche-Comté, France.

Inflammatory joint diseases and autoimmune diseases with joint manifestations 
are associated with premature and accelerated atherogenesis. Patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) have a 5- to 10-year decrease in life expectancy 
compared to the general population, and those exhibiting extraarticular 
manifestations have the greatest excess mortality. RA is now established as an 
independent cardiovascular risk factor. Complex interactions linking 
conventional cardiovascular risk factors, systemic inflammation, and vascular 
function may explain the increased cardiovascular risk among RA patients. 
Endothelial dysfunction is now recognized as both the key step in early 
atherogenesis and a contributor to atheroma plaque progression at later stages. 
Endothelial dysfunction is defined as impaired endothelium-dependent 
blood-vessel dilation in response to a stimulus. The underlying mechanisms 
remain speculative. Over the last decade, a role for endothelial dysfunction in 
the cardiovascular complications of inflammatory joint disease has been 
hypothesized and several maintenance drugs targeting this phenomenon have been 
tested, with promising results.

Copyright © 2014 Société française de rhumatologie. Published by Elsevier SAS. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbspin.2014.01.014
PMID: 24565889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


441. J Invertebr Pathol. 2014 Mar;117:73-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jip.2014.02.005. Epub
2014  Feb 22.

Histopathological and molecular insights into the ovicidal activities of two 
entomopathogenic fungi against two-spotted spider mite.

Zhang L(1), Shi WB(2), Feng MG(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Biological and Chemical Engineering, Zhejiang University of Science 
& Technology, Hangzhou 310023, PR China; Institute of Microbiology, College of 
Life Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou 310058, PR China.
(2)Institute of Microbiology, College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou 310058, PR China.
(3)Institute of Microbiology, College of Life Sciences, Zhejiang University, 
Hangzhou 310058, PR China. Electronic address: mgfeng@zju.edu.cn.

Entomopathogenic fungi can infect and kill spider mite eggs but their ovicidal 
activities are poorly understood. Here we gain histopathogenical and molecular 
insights into the ovicidal activities of Beauveria bassiana and Isaria 
fumosorosea against the two-spotted spider mite, Tetranychus urticae. Scanning 
electronic microscopy indicated successful adhesion and germination of fungal 
conidia on egg shell at 24h post-spray (HPS). Germ tubes of both fungi could 
penetrate into egg shell with penetration pegs at 48 HPS. Interestingly, the 
germ tubes of B. bassiana may elongate on egg surface to locate appropriate 
sites for penetration, acting as 'searching' hyphae. Aside from the normal 
penetration, the germ tubes of I. fumosorosea can be completely or partially 
embedded into egg shell for a distance of extension, forming shell humps. Light 
microscopy of ultrathin sections of infected eggs showed shrunken (affected) or 
disrupted embryos at 48-96 HPS despite little effect on egg cleavage at 24 HPS. 
However, distinguishable hyphal cells were hardly found inside the embryos 
lacking oxygen although fungal outgrowths were abundant on unhatched (killed) 
eggs. In PCR with specific probes, the 18S rDNA signals of B. bassiana (412 bp) 
and I. fumosorosea (454 bp) in the DNA extracts from surface-cleaned mite eggs 
increased at 0-96 HPS, confirming fungal colonization in the infected eggs. We 
consider that the colonization on shell surface and underside could rely upon 
extending hyphae for uptake of egg nutrition, resulting in embryo disruption. 
Our observations add knowledge to microbial control of spider mites.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jip.2014.02.005
PMID: 24566192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


442. Oncogenesis. 2014 Feb 24;2(2):e89. doi: 10.1038/oncsis.2014.2.

The essential role of TNIK gene amplification in gastric cancer growth.

Yu DH(1), Zhang X(1), Wang H(2), Zhang L(3), Chen H(4), Hu M(1), Dong Z(1), Zhu 
G(1), Qian Z(1), Fan J(1), Su X(1), Xu Y(1), Zheng L(1), Dong H(1), Yin X(1), Ji 
Q(1), Ji J(3).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Center China, AstraZeneca, Shanghai, China.
(2)1] Innovation Center China, AstraZeneca, Shanghai, China [2] School of Life 
Science, Fudan University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Carcinogenesis and Translational Research (Ministry of 
Education), Department of Surgery, Peking University Cancer Hospital and 
Institute, Beijing, China.
(4)Department of General Surgery, Renji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.

Erratum in
    Oncogenesis. 2014 Mar 17;3:e93.

Traf2- and Nck-interacting kinase (TNIK) is one of the germinal center kinase 
family members involved in cytoskeleton organization and neuronal dendrite 
extension. Emerging evidence supports that TNIK is essential for activation of 
WNT signaling pathway in colon cancer growth. To search for novel genetic 
aberrations that drive carcinogenesis, we performed microarray-based comparative 
hybridization assay for gene copy number variations in primary tumor samples. 
Our data showed that TNIK gene was amplified in 7% (8/106) of Chinese gastric 
cancer patients. Theses amplifications were confirmed by fluorescence in situ 
hybridization analysis. PAMC82 human gastric cancer and T47D human breast cancer 
cell lines with TNIK amplification were identified to further understand the 
function of TNIK gene amplification. RNA-interference-mediated silencing of TNIK 
resulted in significant inhibition of cell growth and induction of cell death in 
TNIK-amplified, but not in TNIK-non-amplified, cell lines tested. This selective 
sensitivity to the TNIK inhibition was also observed under the effect of a 
small-molecule TNIK inhibitor. Furthermore, our data indicated that TNIK's role 
in gastric cancer growth was not dependent on Wnt signaling but rather was 
involved in AKT activation and cell autophagy. Together, our results suggest 
that TNIK is a novel therapeutic target in gastric cancer and TNIK amplification 
can be potentially used for patient selection.

DOI: 10.1038/oncsis.2014.2
PMCID: PMC5424097
PMID: 24566388

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


443. Neurocrit Care. 2014 Jun;20(3):494-501. doi: 10.1007/s12028-014-9962-2.

Artery of Percheron infarction as an unusual cause of coma: three cases and 
literature review.

Zappella N(1), Merceron S, Nifle C, Hilly-Ginoux J, Bruneel F, Troché G, 
Cordoliani YS, Bedos JP, Pico F, Legriel S.

Author information:
(1)Intensive Care Unit, Centre Hospitalier de Versailles-Site André Mignot, 
78150, Le Chesnay, France, nzap@live.fr.

OBJECTIVE: Stroke due to occlusion of the artery of Percheron (AOP), an uncommon 
anatomic variant supplying the bilateral medial thalami, may raise diagnostic 
challenges and cause life-threatening symptoms. Our objective here was to detail 
the features and outcomes in three patients who required intensive care unit 
(ICU) admission and to review the relevant literature.
METHODS: Description of three cases and literature review based on a 1973-2013 
PubMed search.
RESULTS: Three patients were admitted to our ICU with sudden-onset coma and 
respiratory and cardiovascular dysfunctions requiring endotracheal mechanical 
ventilation. Focal neurological deficits, ophthalmological signs (abnormal light 
reflexes and/or ocular motility and/or ptosis), and neuropsychological 
abnormalities were variably combined. Initial CT scan was normal. Cerebral MRI 
demonstrated bilateral paramedian thalamic infarction, with extension to the 
cerebral peduncles in two patients. Consciousness improved rapidly and time to 
extubation was 1-4 days. All three patients were discharged alive from the 
hospital and two had good 1-year functional outcomes. Similar clinical features 
and outcomes were recorded in the 117 patients identified in the literature, of 
whom ten required ICU admission.
CONCLUSIONS: Bilateral paramedian thalamic stroke due to AOP occlusion can be 
life threatening. The early diagnosis relies on MRI with magnetic resonance 
angiography. Recovery of consciousness is usually rapid and mortality is low, 
warranting full-code ICU management.

DOI: 10.1007/s12028-014-9962-2
PMID: 24566980 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


444. J Mol Model. 2014 Mar;20(3):2157. doi: 10.1007/s00894-014-2157-0. Epub 2014
Feb  25.

Scytonin, a novel cyanobacterial photoprotective pigment: calculations of Raman 
spectroscopic biosignatures.

Varnali T(1), Edwards HG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, Faculty of Arts and Sciences, Bogazici University, 
Bebek, 34342, Istanbul, Turkey, varnali@boun.edu.tr.

The Raman spectrum of scytonin, a novel derivative of the parent scytonemin, is 
predicted from DFT calculations of the most stable, lowest energy, 
conformational structure. The diagnostic importance of this study relates to the 
spectral ability to discriminate between scytonemin and its derivatives alone or 
in admixture with geological matrices from identified characteristic Raman 
spectral signatures. The successful interpretation of biosignatures from a wide 
range of cyanobacterial extremophilic colonization in terrestrial and 
extraterrestrial scenarios is a fundamental requirement of the evaluation of 
robotic spectroscopic instrumentation in search for life missions. Scytonemin is 
produced exclusively by cyanobacterial colonies in environmentally stressed 
habitats and is widely recognized as a key target biomarker molecule in this 
enterprise. Here, the detailed theoretical analysis of the structure of scytonin 
enables a protocol to be established for the recognition of characteristic bands 
in its Raman spectrum and to accomplish the successful differentiation between 
scytonin and scytonemin as well as other scytonemin derivatives such as the 
dimethoxy and tetramethoxy compounds that have been isolated from cyanobacterial 
colonies but which have not yet been characterized spectroscopically. The 
results of this study will facilitate an extension of the database capability 
for miniaturized Raman spectrometers which will be carried on board search for 
life robotic missions to Mars, Europa, and Titan.

DOI: 10.1007/s00894-014-2157-0
PMID: 24567163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


445. Health Rep. 2014 Feb;25(2):13-9.

Estimating relative survival for cancer: An analysis of bias introduced by 
outdated life tables.

Ellison LF(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Statistics Division, Statistics Canada, Ottawa, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Relative survival analyses of cancer data often incorporate outdated 
information about expected survival when current information is not readily 
available. The assumption is that any bias introduced into the estimation of 
expected survival, and hence, into the estimate of relative survival, will be 
negligible. However, empirical studies of potential bias have yet to be 
published.
DATA AND METHODS: Data are from the Canadian Cancer Registry with mortality 
follow-up through record linkage to the Canadian Vital Statistics Death 
Database. Period method relative survival ratios (RSRs) for 2005-2007 were 
derived using life tables centred on the 2006 Census of Population to estimate 
expected survival. The analysis was repeated using life tables from 5 and 10 
years earlier.
RESULTS: Deriving expected survival from life tables 5 years out of date 
resulted in increases in RSRs for all cancers. These increases became greater 
with lengthening survival duration. For example, increases in 1-, 5- and 10-year 
RSRs were 0.2, 0.8 and 1.7 percentage units, respectively, for all cancers 
combined. Increases in 5-year survival were highest for prostate (2.0) and 
bladder cancer (1.6); among males (1.2); and among people aged 75 to 99 at 
diagnosis (1.9). Differences were approximately double when life tables 10 years 
out of date were used.
INTERPRETATION: The use of historical rather than current expected survival data 
in calculating RSRs for cancer may lead to consequential overestimation of 
survival.

PMID: 24567246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


446. J Clin Oncol. 2014 Apr 1;32(10):1012-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2013.53.1186. Epub
2014  Feb 24.

Cost effectiveness of EML4-ALK fusion testing and first-line crizotinib 
treatment for patients with advanced ALK-positive non-small-cell lung cancer.

Djalalov S(1), Beca J, Hoch JS, Krahn M, Tsao MS, Cutz JC, Leighl NB.

Author information:
(1)Sandjar Djalalov, Jaclyn Beca, and Jeffrey S. Hoch, Keenan Research Centre, 
Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute, St Michael's Hospital and Cancer Care Ontario; 
Sandjar Djalalov, Jaclyn Beca, Jeffrey S. Hoch, Murray Krahn, and Natasha B. 
Leighl, Canadian Centre for Applied Research in Cancer Control; Murray Krahn, 
Toronto Health Economics and Technology Assessment Collaborative; Ming-Sound 
Tsao and Natasha B. Leighl, Ontario Cancer Institute and Princess Margaret 
Cancer Centre, Toronto; and Jean-Claude Cutz, McMaster University, Hamilton, 
Ontario, Canada.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2014 Apr 1;32(10):983-5.
    J Clin Oncol. 2014 Nov 1;32(31):3576-7.
    J Clin Oncol. 2014 Nov 1;32(31):3577.
    J Clin Oncol. 2014 Nov 1;32(31):3578-9.

PURPOSE: ALK-targeted therapy with crizotinib offers significant improvement in 
clinical outcomes for the treatment of EML4-ALK fusion-positive non-small-cell 
lung cancer (NSCLC). We estimated the cost effectiveness of EML4-ALK fusion 
testing in combination with targeted first-line crizotinib treatment in Ontario.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was conducted using a Markov 
model from the Canadian Public health (Ontario) perspective and a lifetime 
horizon in patients with stage IV NSCLC with nonsquamous histology. Transition 
probabilities and mortality rates were calculated from the Ontario Cancer 
Registry and Cancer Care Ontario New Drug Funding Program (CCO NDFP). Costs were 
obtained from the Ontario Case Costing Initiative, CCO NDFP, University Health 
Network, and literature.
RESULTS: Molecular testing with first-line targeted crizotinib treatment in the 
population with advanced nonsquamous NSCLC resulted in a gain of 0.011 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) compared with standard care. The incremental 
cost was Canadian $2,725 per patient, and the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) was $255,970 per QALY gained. Among patients with known 
EML4-ALK-positive advanced NSCLC, first-line crizotinib therapy provided 0.379 
additional QALYs, cost an additional $95,043 compared with standard care, and 
produced an ICER of $250,632 per QALY gained. The major driver of cost 
effectiveness was drug price.
CONCLUSION: EML4-ALK fusion testing in stage IV nonsquamous NSCLC with 
crizotinib treatment for ALK-positive patients is not cost effective in the 
setting of high drug costs and a low biomarker frequency in the population.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2013.53.1186
PMID: 24567430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


447. Sex Transm Infect. 2014 Aug;90(5):423-9. doi: 10.1136/sextrans-2013-051219.
Epub  2014 Feb 24.

The dual impact of antiretroviral therapy and sexual behaviour changes on HIV 
epidemiologic trends in Uganda: a modelling study.

Shafer LA(1), Nsubuga RN(2), Chapman R(3), O'Brien K(3), Mayanja BN(2), White 
RG(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, 
Canada Medical Research Council Unit on AIDS/Uganda Virus Research Institute, 
Entebbe, Uganda.
(2)Medical Research Council Unit on AIDS/Uganda Virus Research Institute, 
Entebbe, Uganda.
(3)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK.

OBJECTIVES: Antiretroviral therapy (ART) availability in a population may 
influence risky sexual behaviour. We examine the potential impact of ART on the 
HIV epidemic, incorporating evidence for the impact that ART may have on risky 
sexual behaviour.
METHODS: A mathematical model, parameterised using site-specific data from 
Uganda and worldwide literature review, was used to examine the likely impact of 
ART on HIV epidemiologic trends. We varied assumptions about rates of initiating 
ART, and changes in sexual partner turnover rates.
RESULTS: Modelling suggests that ART will reduce HIV incidence over 20 years, 
and increase prevalence. Even in the optimistic scenario of ART enrollment 
beginning after just five months of infection (in HIV stage 2), prevalence is 
estimated to rise from a baseline of 10.5% and 8.3% among women and men, 
respectively, to at least 12.1% and 10.2%, respectively. It will rise further if 
sexual disinhibition occurs or infectiousness while on ART is slightly higher 
(2% female to male, rather than 0.5%). The conditions required for ART to reduce 
prevalence over this period are likely too extreme to be achievable. For 
example, if ART enrolment begins in HIV stage 1 (within the first 5 months of 
infection), and if risky sexual behaviour does not increase, then 3 of our 11 
top fitting results estimate a potential drop in HIV prevalence by 2025. If 
sexual risk taking rises, it will have a large additional impact on expected HIV 
prevalence. Prevalence will rise despite incidence falling, because ART extends 
life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: HIV prevalence will rise. Even small increases in partner turnover 
rates will lead to an additional substantial increase in HIV prevalence. Policy 
makers are urged to continue HIV prevention activities, including promoting sex 
education, and to be prepared for a higher than previously suggested number of 
HIV infected people in need of treatment.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/sextrans-2013-051219
PMCID: PMC4112492
PMID: 24567521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


448. Death Stud. 2012 Feb;36(2):182-9. doi: 10.1080/07481187.2011.553342.

Do people whose names begin with "D" really die young?

Smith G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, Pomona College, Claremont, California 91711, USA. 
gsmith@pomona.edu

It has been reported that professional baseball players whose first names begin 
with the letter "D" tend to die relatively young (E. L. Abel & M. L. Kruger, 
2010). However, the statistical evidence for this claim is based on selective 
data and a statistical test that ignores important confounding influences. A 
valid test applied to more comprehensive data from the same source does not show 
a statistically significant relationship between initials and longevity. In 
addition, data for the years 1960 through 2004 for 6.7 million White, 
non-Hispanic California decedents do not replicate the claim that D's die young.

DOI: 10.1080/07481187.2011.553342
PMID: 24567987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

