
Strabismus surgery in adults achieves satisfactory alignment with one operation 
in approximately 80% of patients, depending on the specific nature of the 
problem. Risks of adult strabismus surgery are relatively low, and serious 
complications are anecdotal and rare. Even if the strabismus has been 
long-standing, most adults will experience some improvement in binocular 
function after strabismus surgery. Consequently, adult strabismus surgery should 
not be considered merely cosmetic in most cases. In esotropic patients, this 
improvement typically takes the form of an expansion of binocular visual fields; 
however, some patients may also regain stereopsis. There are many psychosocial 
benefits to adult strabismus surgery. This is reflected in the finding that the 
majority of adults surveyed with strabismus would trade a portion of their life 
expectancy to be rid of their strabismus.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000000248
PMID: 24739461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. Med Decis Making. 2015 Feb;35(2):183-95. doi: 10.1177/0272989X14528380. Epub
 2014 Apr 16.

The influence of disease risk on the optimal time interval between screens for 
the early detection of cancer: a mathematical approach.

O'Mahony JF(1)(2), van Rosmalen J(1)(3), Mushkudiani NA(4), Goudsmit FW(1), 
Eijkemans MJ(5), Heijnsdijk EA(1), Steyerberg EW(1), Habbema JD(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands (JFO'M, JvR, FWG, EAMH, EWS, JDFH)
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, Trinity College Dublin, Dublin, 
Ireland (JFO'M)
(3)Department of Biostatistics, Erasmus MC-University Medical Centre Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, the Netherlands (JvR)
(4)Statistics Netherlands, Den Haag, the Netherlands (NAM)
(5)Department of Biostatistics, UMC-University Medical Centre Utrecht, Utrecht, 
the Netherlands (MJCE)

The intervals between screens for the early detection of diseases such as breast 
and colon cancer suggested by screening guidelines are typically based on the 
average population risk of disease. With the emergence of ever more biomarkers 
for cancer risk prediction and the development of personalized medicine, there 
is a need for risk-specific screening intervals. The interval between successive 
screens should be shorter with increasing cancer risk. A risk-dependent optimal 
interval is ideally derived from a cost-effectiveness analysis using a validated 
simulation model. However, this is time-consuming and costly. We propose a 
simplified mathematical approach for the exploratory analysis of the 
implications of risk level on optimal screening interval. We develop a 
mathematical model of the optimal screening interval for breast cancer 
screening. We verified the results by programming the simplified model in the 
MISCAN-Breast microsimulation model and comparing the results. We validated the 
results by comparing them with the results of a full, published MISCAN-Breast 
cost-effectiveness model for a number of different risk levels. The results of 
both the verification and validation were satisfactory. We conclude that the 
mathematical approach can indicate the impact of disease risk on the optimal 
screening interval.

Â© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X14528380
PMID: 24739535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Indian Soc Pedod Prev Dent. 2014 Apr-Jun;32(2):117-9. doi: 
10.4103/0970-4388.130785.

Utilization of free dental health care services provided to the perinatally 
infected human immunodeficiency virus children in Bangalore: longitudinal study.

Parvathy BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pedodontics and Preventive Dentistry, AECS Maaruti College of 
Dental Sciences and Research Centre, Bengaluru, Karnataka, India.

BACKGROUND: Use of Highly active anti-retroviral therapy have increased the life 
expectancy of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected patients and hence it 
is imperative that all efforts have to be made by Pediatric dentists to provide 
a better oral health for these children.
AIM: The aim of this study was to evaluate the rate of utilization of free 
dental treatment provided to these perinatally infected HIV positive children 
who were previously screened as a part of oral health survey.
DESIGN: Purposive sampling was used.
INCLUSION CRITERIA: Perinatally infected HIV children screened for oral health 
status.
EXCLUSION CRITERIA: Patients not screened during the oral health survey.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Attendance records of 319 perinatally HIV infected 
children consisting of 178 males and 141 females attending a specialized 
pediatric outpatient clinic at Indira Gandhi Institute of Child Health were 
examined to compare treatment compliance rates.
RESULTS: The number of patients in the severe category who completed treatment 
was significantly less compared with mild and advanced categories (P < 0.001). 
The difference in the proportion of patients who completed treatment between 
mild and advanced group was not statistically significant (P > 0.05).
CONCLUSION: The results show that children with HIV have significantly lower 
compliance. Even though all dental treatment provided to them was free of the 
cost it still had no impetus to encourage them to go through with the treatment.

DOI: 10.4103/0970-4388.130785
PMID: 24739909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2014 Jun;41(6):1017-26. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-014-1438-z. Epub 2014 Apr 17.

The novel Shewanella putrefaciens-infecting bacteriophage Spp001: genome 
sequence and lytic enzymes.

Han F(1), Li M, Lin H, Wang J, Cao L, Khan MN.

Author information:
(1)Food Safety Laboratory, Ocean University of China, Qingdao, 266003, People's 
Republic of China.

Shewanella putrefaciens has been identified as a specific spoilage organism 
commonly found in chilled fresh fish, which contributes to the spoilage of fish 
products. Limiting S. putrefaciens growth can extend the shelf-life of chilled 
fish. Endolysins, which are lytic enzymes produced by bacteriophages, have been 
considered an alternative to control bacterial growth, and have been useful in 
various applications, including food preservation. We report here, for the first 
time, the complete genome sequence of a novel phage Spp001, which lyses S. 
putrefaciens Sp225. The Spp001 genome comprises a 54,789-bp DNA molecule with 67 
open reading frames and an average total G + C content of 49.42 %. In silico 
analysis revealed that the Spp001 open reading frames encode various putative 
functional proteins, including an endolysin (ORF 62); however, no sequence for 
genes encoding the holin polypeptides, which work in concert with endolysins, 
was identified. To examine further the lytic activity of Spp001, we analyzed the 
lytic enzyme-containing fraction from phages released at the end of the phage 
lytic cycle in S. putrefaciens, using diffusion and turbidimetric assays. The 
results show that the partially purified extract contained endolysin, as 
indicated by a high hydrolytic activity towards bacterial peptidoglycan decrease 
in the OD590 value by 0.160 in 15 min. The results will allow further 
investigation of the purification of natural Spp001 endolysin, the extension of 
Spp001 host range, and the applications of the phage-encoded enzymes.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-014-1438-z
PMID: 24740748 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. J Virol. 2014 Jul;88(13):7402-11. doi: 10.1128/JVI.00443-14. Epub 2014 Apr
16.

Hepatitis delta antigen requires a flexible quasi-double-stranded RNA structure 
to bind and condense hepatitis delta virus RNA in a ribonucleoprotein complex.

Griffin BL(1), Chasovskikh S(2), Dritschilo A(2), Casey JL(3).

Author information:
(1)Global Infectious Disease Program, Georgetown University Medical Center, 
Washington, DC, USA Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Georgetown 
University Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.
(2)Radiation Medicine, Georgetown University Medical Center, Washington, DC, 
USA.
(3)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Georgetown University Medical 
Center, Washington, DC, USA caseyj@georgetown.edu.

The circular genome and antigenome RNAs of hepatitis delta virus (HDV) form 
characteristic unbranched, quasi-double-stranded RNA secondary structures in 
which short double-stranded helical segments are interspersed with internal 
loops and bulges. The ribonucleoprotein complexes (RNPs) formed by these RNAs 
with the virus-encoded protein hepatitis delta antigen (HDAg) perform essential 
roles in the viral life cycle, including viral replication and virion formation. 
Little is understood about the formation and structure of these complexes and 
how they function in these key processes. Here, the specific RNA features 
required for HDAg binding and the topology of the complexes formed were 
investigated. Selective 2'OH acylation analyzed by primer extension (SHAPE) 
applied to free and HDAg-bound HDV RNAs indicated that the characteristic 
secondary structure of the RNA is preserved when bound to HDAg. Notably, the 
analysis indicated that predicted unpaired positions in the RNA remained dynamic 
in the RNP. Analysis of the in vitro binding activity of RNAs in which internal 
loops and bulges were mutated and of synthetically designed RNAs demonstrated 
that the distinctive secondary structure, not the primary RNA sequence, is the 
major determinant of HDAg RNA binding specificity. Atomic force microscopy 
analysis of RNPs formed in vitro revealed complexes in which the HDV RNA is 
substantially condensed by bending or wrapping. Our results support a model in 
which the internal loops and bulges in HDV RNA contribute flexibility to the 
quasi-double-stranded structure that allows RNA bending and condensing by HDAg.
IMPORTANCE: RNA-protein complexes (RNPs) formed by the hepatitis delta virus 
RNAs and protein, HDAg, perform critical roles in virus replication. Neither the 
structures of these RNPs nor the RNA features required to form them have been 
characterized. HDV RNA is unusual in that it forms an unbranched 
quasi-double-stranded structure in which short base-paired segments are 
interspersed with internal loops and bulges. We analyzed the role of the HDV RNA 
sequence and secondary structure in the formation of a minimal RNP and 
visualized the structure of this RNP using atomic force microscopy. Our results 
indicate that HDAg does not recognize the primary sequence of the RNA; rather, 
the principle contribution of unpaired bases in HDV RNA to HDAg binding is to 
allow flexibility in the unbranched quasi-double-stranded RNA structure. 
Visualization of RNPs by atomic force microscopy indicated that the RNA is 
significantly bent or condensed in the complex.

Copyright Â© 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.00443-14
PMCID: PMC4054418
PMID: 24741096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Needle or Open Fasciotomy for Dupuytrenâs Contracture: A Review of the 
Comparative Efficacy, Safety, and Cost-Effectiveness â An Update [Internet].

Ottawa (ON): Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health; 2013 Nov 11.
CADTH Rapid Response Reports.

Dupuytrenâs contracture is a progressive condition in which connective cords 
form, thicken, and shorten (typically in the connective tissue of the palmar 
fascia), causing permanent flexion contractures of joints and of one or more 
fingers. The metacarpophalangeal joint (MCP) and the proximal interphalangeal 
joint (PIP) are most often affected. Eventually, the contractures lead to hand 
deformity and impaired hand function, and potentially reduced quality of life 
for the affected individual. Dupuytrenâs contracture may present as an 
unilateral or bilateral disease. The primary cause of Dupuytrenâs contracture 
has yet to be determined, although there is a strong hereditary component. There 
is no cure for Dupuytrenâs contracture and only a handful of treatment options 
exist. The most commonly used treatments are surgery (partial or total 
fasciectomy), fasciotomy, collagenase clostridium histolyticum injections, or 
corticosteroid injections. Surgery (especially open, partial fasciectomy [OPF]) 
is the mainstay treatment option, which is recommended for functionally impaired 
patients with contractures more than 30 degrees of the MCP joint. There is some 
disagreement as to when surgery is recommended when PIP joints are affected. 
There are two types of fasciotomy: open fasciotomy where the surgeon uses a 
scalpel to section the cords, and closed fasciotomy or percutaneous needle 
fasciotomy (also called aponeurotomy [PNF]), which involves a minimally invasive 
technique whereby a small needle is used to weaken and manipulate the cords. 
With percutaneous needle fasciotomy, the cords eventually break after being 
weakened by means of passive finger extension. Collagenase clostridium 
histolyticum (CCH) has recently been approved by Health Canada as treatment for 
Dupuytrenâs contracture in adults with a palpable cord. The monthly injection of 
CCH (up to three injections per Dupuytrenâs cord) hydrolyzes the collagen in the 
Dupuytrenâs cord, thereby resulting in enzymatic disruption of the cord and 
release of the contracture. The objective of this report is to conduct a review 
of the clinical evidence regarding open and closed fasciotomy for treating 
Dupuytrenâs contracture compared with fasciectomy and collagenase clostridium 
histolyticum. The cost-effectiveness of the fasciotomy techniques will also be 
reviewed. This is an update to a previous Rapid Response report.

Copyright Â© 2013 Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health.

PMID: 24741726


931. J Palliat Med. 2014 Jun;17(6):673-82. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2013.0460. Epub 2014
Apr  17.

Physicians' propensity to discuss prognosis is associated with patients' 
awareness of prognosis for metastatic cancers.

Liu PH(1), Landrum MB, Weeks JC, Huskamp HA, Kahn KL, He Y, Mack JW, Keating NL.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Health Care Policy, Harvard Medical School , Boston, 
Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Prognosis discussion is an essential component of informed 
decision-making. However, many terminally ill patients have a limited awareness 
of their prognosis and the causes are unclear.
OBJECTIVE: To explore the impact of physicians' propensity to discuss prognosis 
on advanced cancer patients' prognosis awareness.
DESIGN: Cancer Care Outcomes Research and Surveillance Consortium (CanCORS) 
study, a prospective cohort study with patient and physician surveys.
SETTING/SUBJECTS: We investigated 686 patients with metastatic lung or 
colorectal cancer at diagnosis who participated in the CanCORS study and 
reported about their life expectancy. Data were linked to the physician survey 
from 486 physicians who were identified by these patients as filling important 
roles in their cancer care.
RESULTS: Few patients with metastatic cancers (16.5%) reported an accurate 
awareness of their prognosis, defined as reporting a life expectancy of less 
than 2 years for lung cancer or less than 5 years for colorectal cancer. 
Patients whose most-important-doctor (in helping patient make decisions) 
reported discussing prognosis with terminally ill patients earlier were more 
likely than those whose doctors deferred these discussions to have an accurate 
prognosis awareness (adjusted proportion, 18.5% versus 7.6%; odds ratio, 3.23; 
95% confidence interval, 1.39-7.52; p=0.006).
CONCLUSIONS: Few patients with advanced cancer could articulate an accurate 
prognosis estimate, despite most having received chemotherapy and many 
physicians reported they would discuss prognosis early. Physicians' propensity 
to discuss prognosis earlier was associated with more accurate patient reports 
of prognosis. Enhancing the communication skills of providers with important 
roles in cancer care may help to improve cancer patients' understanding of their 
prognosis.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2013.0460
PMCID: PMC4038989
PMID: 24742212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


932. BMC Cancer. 2014 Apr 17;14:267. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-267.

Decrease social inequalities return-to-work: development and design of a 
randomised controlled trial among women with breast cancer.

Vidor C(1), Leroyer A, Christophe V, Seillier M, Foncel J, Van de MaÃ«le J, 
Bonneterre J, Fantoni S.

Author information:
(1)University Lille Nord de France-UniversitÃ© de Lille III, UnitÃ© de Recherche 
en sciences Cognitives et Affectives (URECA) EA 1059, BP 60149, F-59653 
Villeneuve-d'Ascq Cedex, France. clemence.vidor@univ-lille3.fr.

BACKGROUND: Despite the improvement in the care management, women cancer 
patients who are still in employment find themselves for the most part obliged 
to stop working while they are having treatment. Their return-to-work 
probability is impacted by numerous psychosocial factors. The objective is to 
describe the development and the content of an intervention aimed to facilitate 
the return to work of female breast cancer patients and in particular the women 
in the most precarious situations through early active individualised 
psychosocial support (APAPI).
METHODS: The intervention proposed is made up of 4 interviews with a 
psychologist at the hospital, distributed over the year according to the 
diagnosis and conducted on the same day as a conventional follow-up 
consultation, then a consultation with a specialist job retention physician. We 
expect, in the first instance, that this intervention will reduce the social 
inequalities of the return-to-work rate at 12 months. The EPICES score will 
enable the population to be broken down according to the level of social 
precariousness. The other expected results are the reduction of the social 
inequalities in the quality of the return to work at 18 and 24 months and the 
disparities between the individual and collective resources of the patients. 
This intervention is assessed in the context of a controlled and randomised 
multi-centre study. The patients eligible are women aged between 18 and 55 years 
with a unilateral breast cancer with local extension exclusively, having 
received surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy, in employment at the time of 
the diagnosis and dealt with by one of the 2 investigating centres.
DISCUSSION: It is essential to assess this type of intervention before 
envisaging its generalisation. The study set in place will enable us to measure 
the impact of this intervention aiming to facilitate the return to work of 
breast cancer patients, in particular for those who suffer from social 
fragility, compared with the standard care.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-267
PMCID: PMC4004459
PMID: 24742314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. Chirurgia (Bucur). 2014 Mar-Apr;109(2):179-84.

Parastomal hernias -- clinical study of therapeutic strategies.

TÃ¢rcoveanu E, Vasilescu A, Cotea E, Vlad N, Palaghia M, DÄnilÄ N, Variu M.

Parastomal hernias are parietal defects adjacent to the stomasite, after 
ileostomy and colostomy. Their incidence is variable and they are generally 
underestimated.
METHODS: Between 2001 and 2010 at the First Surgical Clinic Iasi, we treated 861 
incisional hernias, of which there were 31 parastomal hernias in 26 patients 
(3%), 5 of which were recurrent parastomal hernias. Parastomal hernias have been 
explored clinically, through imaging and intraoperatively.Because our experience 
and literature review have demonstrated that a mesh repair is a safe procedure 
in the treatment of parastomal hernia, in 2010 we initiated a prospective 
randomized trial on the use of prophylactic polypropylene mesh at the time of 
stoma formation to reduce the risk of parastomal hernia. We enrolled in the 
study 20 patients with mesh implanted at the primary operation and 22 patients 
without mesh. The inclusion criteria were: patients with low rectal cancer, 
stage II-III, irradiated, obese, with a history of hernias, patients who do 
physical work.
RESULTS: Most parastomal hernias were asymptomatic; only six cases with 
parastomal hernias required emergency surgical treatment. We performed local 
tissue repair in 16 cases (4 cases with recurrent parastomal hernia, stoma 
relocation in one case), sublay mesh repair in 15 cases (one case with recurrent 
parastomal hernia; stoma relocation in 5 cases). Postoperative morbidity 
registered included 4 wound infections (one case after mesh repair which 
required surgical reintervention) and stoma necrosis in one case with 
strangulation parastomal hernia with severe postoperative evolution and death. 
After local tissue repair recurrences were seen in 6 cases, after mesh repair we 
registered recurrence only in one case and no relapse after the relocation of 
the stoma. The patients with prophylactic mesh at the time of stoma formation to 
reduce the risk of parastomal hernia were followed for a median of 20 
months(range 12 to 28 months) by clinical examination and ultrasound exam every 
3 months. We registered 6 recurrences(27,2%), all in the no mesh cohort. We have 
not seen any morbidity in patients from the mesh group.
CONCLUSIONS: Parastomal hernia is a relatively rare disease compared to the 
number of incisional hernias. With increasing life expectancy stands we noted 
increased incidence of parastomal hernia as well. Prophylactic use of mesh 
during the primary operation is a safe procedure and reduces the risk of 
parastomal hernia.

Celsius.

PMID: 24742407 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Gait Posture. 2014;40(1):145-9. doi: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2014.03.017. Epub
2014  Mar 28.

The functional effect of a distal rectus femoris tenotomy in adults with 
cerebral palsy.

Drefus LC(1), Buckland MA(2), Backus SI(2), Root L(2).

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Special Surgery, 535 East 70th Street, New York, NY 10021, 
United States. Electronic address: drefusl@hss.edu.
(2)Hospital for Special Surgery, 535 East 70th Street, New York, NY 10021, 
United States.

The purpose of this study was to determine the effect of a distal rectus femoris 
tenotomy on function and gait in adults with cerebral palsy who had diminished 
knee flexion during swing. A stiff knee gait pattern is commonly seen in 
individuals with cerebral palsy and frequently leads to tripping and falling. 
Five subjects, 25-51 years, (34.6Â±10.3 years) participated in the study; each 
individual had the surgery after the age of 18. Four of the five subjects 
underwent bilateral distal rectus femoris tenotomies for a total of nine limbs 
being studied. Four of the five subjects had a single procedure of a distal 
rectus femoris tenotomy and one subject also had bilateral adductor tenotomies. 
All individuals underwent a pre-operative and post-operative, (3.28Â±1.6 years) 
three-dimensional gait analysis. Pre-operative gait revealed diminished peak 
knee flexion and out of phase rectus femoris activity with a quiet vastus 
lateralis during swing in all subjects. Significant findings after a distal 
rectus femoris tenotomy included: improved peak swing knee flexion, improved 
peak stance hip extension, and increased total knee excursion without loss in 
knee extension strength. During swing, knee flexion angle improved on average 
11Â° which correlated with subjective report of less shoe wear, tripping, and 
falling due to improved clearance. In conclusion, a distal rectus femoris 
tenotomy should be considered a surgical option for adults with cerebral palsy 
and a stiff knee gait pattern to improve mobility, function, and quality of 
life.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gaitpost.2014.03.017
PMID: 24742707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. Neuroimage. 2014 Aug 15;97:333-48. doi: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.04.018.
Epub  2014 Apr 15.

Individualized Gaussian process-based prediction and detection of local and 
global gray matter abnormalities in elderly subjects.

Ziegler G(1), Ridgway GR(2), Dahnke R(3), Gaser C(4); Alzheimer's Disease 
Neuroimaging Initiative.

Author information:
(1)Wellcome Trust Center for Neuroimaging, Institute of Neurology, London, UK; 
Department of Psychiatry, Jena University Hospital, Jena, Germany. Electronic 
address: g.ziegler@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)Wellcome Trust Center for Neuroimaging, Institute of Neurology, London, UK.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Jena University Hospital, Jena, Germany.
(4)Department of Psychiatry, Jena University Hospital, Jena, Germany; Department 
of Neurology, Jena University Hospital, Jena, Germany.

Structural imaging based on MRI is an integral component of the clinical 
assessment of patients with potential dementia. We here propose an 
individualized Gaussian process-based inference scheme for clinical decision 
support in healthy and pathological aging elderly subjects using MRI. The 
approach aims at quantitative and transparent support for clinicians who aim to 
detect structural abnormalities in patients at risk of Alzheimer's disease or 
other types of dementia. Firstly, we introduce a generative model incorporating 
our knowledge about normative decline of local and global gray matter volume 
across the brain in elderly. By supposing smooth structural trajectories the 
models account for the general course of age-related structural decline as well 
as late-life accelerated loss. Considering healthy subjects' demography and 
global brain parameters as informative about normal brain aging variability 
affords individualized predictions in single cases. Using Gaussian process 
models as a normative reference, we predict new subjects' brain scans and 
quantify the local gray matter abnormalities in terms of Normative Probability 
Maps (NPM) and global z-scores. By integrating the observed expectation error 
and the predictive uncertainty, the local maps and global scores exploit the 
advantages of Bayesian inference for clinical decisions and provide a valuable 
extension of diagnostic information about pathological aging. We validate the 
approach in simulated data and real MRI data. We train the GP framework using 
1238 healthy subjects with ages 18-94 years, and predict in 415 independent test 
subjects diagnosed as healthy controls, Mild Cognitive Impairment and 
Alzheimer's disease.

Copyright Â© 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neuroimage.2014.04.018
PMCID: PMC4077633
PMID: 24742919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. Drug Discov Today. 2014 Sep;19(9):1419-26. doi:
10.1016/j.drudis.2014.04.004.  Epub 2014 Apr 14.

Therapeutic strategies for treating osteolytic bone metastases.

Verron E(1), Schmid-Antomarchi H(2), Pascal-Mousselard H(3), Schmid-Alliana 
A(2), Scimeca JC(2), Bouler JM(4).

Author information:
(1)INSERM U791, UniversitÃ© de Nantes, FacultÃ© de Chirurgie Dentaire, 44042 
Nantes, France. Electronic address: elise.verron@univ-nantes.fr.
(2)Univ Nice Sophia Antipolis, CNRS, iBV, UMR7277, UFR MÃ©decine, 06107 Nice 
Cedex 2, France.
(3)Hopital PitiÃ©-SalpÃ©triÃ¨re, Service de Chirurgie, 75 651 Paris Cedex, France.
(4)INSERM U791, UniversitÃ© de Nantes, FacultÃ© de Chirurgie Dentaire, 44042 
Nantes, France.

The recent progress in oncologic management of patients with localized cancer or 
metastatic disease has permitted a significant improvement in life expectancy. 
Nevertheless, bone metastases and their consequent skeletal-related events 
(SREs) are still associated with unfavorable prognosis and greatly affect 
quality of life. Global management of these bone metastases includes traditional 
local approaches (surgery, radiotherapy, etc.) and systemic administration of 
chemotherapeutic agents. This review focuses on treatments specific for bone 
metastases and, in particular, on inhibitors of bone resorption that are 
effective for preventing and delaying the development of SREs.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drudis.2014.04.004
PMID: 24742971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


937. Obes Res Clin Pract. 2014 Mar-Apr;8(2):e115-22. doi:
10.1016/j.orcp.2013.03.005.

Lifetime cost effectiveness of a through-school nutrition and physical 
programme: Project Energize.

Rush E(1), Obolonkin V(1), McLennan S(1), Graham D(1), Harris JD(1), Mernagh 
P(1), Weston AR(1).

Author information:
(1)OptumInsight, NSW, Australia.

Project Energize, a multicomponent through-school physical activity and 
nutrition programme, is delivered to all primary school children in the Waikato 
region. The programme aim is to improve the overall health and reduce the rate 
of weight gain of all Waikato primary school children. An existing economic 
model was used to extrapolate the programme effects, initial costs, lifetime 
health treatment cost structures, quality-adjusted-life-years gained and 
increased life expectancy to the general and MÄori child population of New 
Zealand. In March 2011, a sample of 2474 younger (7.58 Â± 0.57 years, mean Â± SD) 
and 2330 older (10.30 Â± 0.51 years) children (36% MÄori) attending Energize 
schools had body mass index measured and compared using mixed effect modelling 
with unEnergized comparison children from 2004 and 2006 from the same region. In 
2011 the median body mass index reduction compared with the comparison younger 
children was -0.504 (90% CI -0.435 to -0.663) kg/m(2) and in the older children 
-0.551 (-0.456 to -0.789) kg/m(2). In 2010 there were 42,067 children attending 
Energize schools and in the same year NZ$1,891,175 was spent to deliver the 
programme; a cost of $44.96/child/year. Compared to the comparison children the 
increment in cost/quality-adjusted-life-year gained was $30,438 for the younger 
and $24,690 for the older children, and lower for MÄori (younger $28,241, older 
$22,151) and for the middle socioeconomic status schools ($23,211, $17,891). 
Project Energize would improve quality and length of life and when compared with 
other obesity prevention programmes previously assessed with this model, it 
would be relatively cost-effective from the health treatment payer's 
perspective.

DOI: 10.1016/j.orcp.2013.03.005
PMID: 24743006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Gan To Kagaku Ryoho. 2014 Apr;41(4):461-5.

[Effect of the administration of zoledronic acid on life expectancy in patients 
with multiple myeloma with or without renal impairment].

[Article in Japanese]

Morio K(1), Tsugane M, Mizuki M, Uejima E.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Clinical Pharmacy and Education, Graduate School of Pharmaceutical 
Science, Osaka University.

Zoledronic acid(ZA)is believed to exert anticancer effects in patients with 
multiple myeloma(MM). For patients with impaired renal function, its dosage 
should be determined according to creatinine clearance(Ccr). However, there is 
no reported difference in life expectancy improvement between those with and 
without renal impairment. Therefore, we conducted a retrospective study to 
investigate this clinical question. Seventy-eight MM patients receiving ZA 
injections were selected and divided into 2 groups: (1)normal group(n=39), 
baseline Ccrâ¥60mL/min, and(2)impaired group(n=39), baseline Ccr<60mL/min. 
Patients in the normal group received a significantly higher initial 
dose(p<0.001), were of a younger age(p<0.001), had lower 
b2-microglobulin(b2-M)levels(p<0.001), and had higher rates of prior 
hematopoietic stem cell transplantation(p<0.001)than those in the impaired 
group. We then compared the survival rate between 31 patients in the normal 
group and 27 patients in the impaired group whose treatment outcome data were 
available and found no significant difference(p=0.251). Therefore, our results 
suggest that the survival rate on ZA administration may not differ between MM 
patients with and without renal impairment.

PMID: 24743361 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Ann Surg. 2014 Aug;260(2):274-8. doi: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000000656.

Increasing access to specialty surgical care: application of a new resource 
allocation model to bariatric surgery.

Leroux EJ(1), Morton JM, Rivas H.

Author information:
(1)*Stanford University School of Medicine, Stanford, CA â Stanford Graduate 
School of Business, Stanford, CA; and â¡Section of Minimally Invasive Surgery, 
Division of General Surgery, Stanford Department of Surgery, Stanford, CA.

OBJECTIVES: To calculate the public health impact and economic benefit of using 
ancillary health care professionals for routine postoperative care.
BACKGROUND: The need for specialty surgical care far exceeds its supply, 
particularly in weight loss surgery. Bariatric surgery is cost-effective and the 
only effective long-term weight loss strategy for morbidly obese patients. 
Without clinically appropriate task shifting, surgeons, hospitals, and untreated 
patients incur a high opportunity cost.
METHODS: Visit schedules, time per visit, and revenues were obtained from 
bariatric centers of excellence. Case-specific surgeon fees were derived from 
published Current Procedural Terminology data. The novel Microsoft Excel model 
was allowed to run until a steady state was evident (status quo). This model was 
compared with one in which the surgeon participates in follow-up visits beyond 3 
months only if there is a complication (task shifting). Changes in operative 
capacity and national quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated.
RESULTS: In the status quo model, per capita surgical volume capacity 
equilibrates at 7 surgical procedures per week, with 27% of the surgeon's time 
dedicated to routine long-term follow-up visits. Task shifting increases 
operative capacity by 38%, resulting in 143,000 to 882,000 QALYs gained 
annually. Per surgeon, task shifting achieves an annual increase of 95 to 588 
QALYs, $5 million in facility revenue, 48 cases of cure of obstructive sleep 
apnea, 44 cases of remission of type 2 diabetes mellitus, and 35 cases of cure 
of hypertension.
CONCLUSIONS: Optimal resource allocation through task shifting is economically 
appealing and can achieve dramatic public health benefit by increasing access to 
specialty surgery.

DOI: 10.1097/SLA.0000000000000656
PMID: 24743608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Cell Death Dis. 2014 Apr 17;5(4):e1177. doi: 10.1038/cddis.2014.154.

Salt-inducible kinase 3 is a novel mitotic regulator and a target for enhancing 
antimitotic therapeutic-mediated cell death.

Chen H(1), Huang S(1), Han X(1), Zhang J(1), Shan C(1), Tsang YH(1), Ma HT(1), 
Poon RY(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Life Science, Center for Cancer Research, and State Key 
Laboratory of Molecular Neuroscience, Hong Kong University of Science and 
Technology, Clear Water Bay, Hong Kong.

Many mitotic kinases are both critical for maintaining genome stability and are 
important targets for anticancer therapies. We provide evidence that SIK3 
(salt-inducible kinase 3), an AMP-activated protein kinase-related kinase, is 
important for mitosis to occur properly in mammalian cells. Downregulation of 
SIK3 resulted in an extension of mitosis in both mouse and human cells but did 
not affect the DNA damage checkpoint. Time-lapse microscopy and other approaches 
indicated that mitotic exit but not mitotic entry was delayed. Although 
repression of SIK3 alone simply delayed mitotic exit, it was able to sensitize 
cells to various antimitotic chemicals. Both mitotic arrest and cell death 
caused by spindle poisons were enhanced after SIK3 depletion. Likewise, the 
antimitotic effects due to pharmacological inhibition of mitotic kinases 
including Aurora A, Aurora B, and polo-like kinase 1 were enhanced in the 
absence of SIK3. Finally, in addition to promoting the sensitivity of a 
small-molecule inhibitor of the mitotic kinesin Eg5, SIK3 depletion was able to 
overcome cells that developed drug resistance. These results establish the 
importance of SIK3 as a mitotic regulator and underscore the potential of SIK3 
as a druggable antimitotic target.

DOI: 10.1038/cddis.2014.154
PMCID: PMC4001308
PMID: 24743732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Beijing Da Xue Xue Bao Yi Xue Ban. 2014 Apr 18;46(2):226-31.

[Analysis on the disease burden and its impact factors of coal worker's 
pneumoconiosis inpatients].

[Article in Chinese]

Zhang L(1), Zhu L(2), Li ZH(2), Li JZ(2), Pan HW(2), Zhang SF(2), Qin WH(3), He 
LH(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health Sciences, Peking 
University School of Public Health,Beijing 100191,China; Research of 
Occupational Diseases Prevention and Control in Henan Province, Zhengzhou 
450052, China.
(2)Institute of Occupational Diseases Prevention and Control of China Pingmei 
Shenma Group, Henan Pingdingshan 467001, China.
(3)Research of Occupational Diseases Prevention and Control in Henan Province, 
Zhengzhou 450052, China.
(4)Department of Occupational and Environmental Health Sciences, Peking 
University School of Public Health,Beijing 100191,China.

OBJECTIVE: To obtain the baseline data and decision of quantitative analysis for 
the allocation of scarce health care resources,and for the health policymaking 
about easing the disease burden, to provide estimation of the economic costs and 
the disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) loss of the coal worker's 
pneumoconiosis (CWP) and to explore the influencing factors of the disease 
burden.
METHODS: The CWP inpatients from the Institute of Occupational Diseases 
Prevention and Control of a Coal Mining Group for 2011 were recruited in the 
study. Multiple dimensions of the disease burden were measured in the inception 
cohort of the 194 CWP inpatients: the direct economic burden, the indirect 
economic burden and the DALYs loss. The direct economic burden of the inpatients 
included hospitalization expenses and food allowances and nutritional 
supplements. The indirect economic burden was estimated using the DALYs and 
human capital approach,and the influencing factors of hospitalization expenses 
were analyzed in this study.
RESULTS: The estimated direct economic burden for the 194 CWP inpatients for 
2011 was approximately 4.68 million yuan and direct burden per capita was 24 
108.05 yuan, and their indirect burden about 6.98 million yuan and indirect 
burden per capita 35 977.36 yuan. The study discovered that 1 681.53 health 
years were lost for the CWP inpaitents and per capita health years loss 
(8.67Â±3.65) years.
CONCLUSION: The medical cost, the indirect cost and the DALYs loss of CWP are 
all sizable. Age and length of stay in the hospital are the major influencing 
factors for high hospitalization expenses. The hospitalization expenses of the 
CWP inpatients increase with their age and length of stay in the hospital. 
Taking effective measures to reduce the morbility is the key point to reduce the 
CWP burden.

PMID: 24743811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


942. Curr Cardiol Rep. 2014;16(6):487. doi: 10.1007/s11886-014-0487-2.

Genetics of valvular heart disease.

LaHaye S(1), Lincoln J, Garg V.

Author information:
(1)Center for Cardiovascular and Pulmonary Research and The Heart Center, Room 
WB4221, Nationwide Children's Hospital, Columbus, OH, 43205, USA.

Valvular heart disease is associated with significant morbidity and mortality 
and often the result of congenital malformations. However, the prevalence is 
increasing in adults not only because of the growing aging population, but also 
because of improvements in the medical and surgical care of children with 
congenital heart valve defects. The success of the Human Genome Project and 
major advances in genetic technologies, in combination with our increased 
understanding of heart valve development, has led to the discovery of numerous 
genetic contributors to heart valve disease. These have been uncovered using a 
variety of approaches including the examination of familial valve disease and 
genome-wide association studies to investigate sporadic cases. This review will 
discuss these findings and their implications in the treatment of valvular heart 
disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11886-014-0487-2
PMCID: PMC4531840
PMID: 24743897 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Stephanie LaHaye, Joy 
Lincoln, and Vidu Garg declare that they have no conflict of interest.


943. Turk J Haematol. 2012 Sep;29(3):207-16. doi: 10.5505/tjh.2012.72681. Epub
2012  Oct 5.

Fertility-preserving treatment options in patients with malignant hematological 
diseases.

KÃ¼Ã§Ã¼k M(1), Bolaman AZ(2), YavaÅoÄlu I(2), KadÄ±kÃ¶ylÃ¼ G(2).

Author information:
(1)Adnan Menderes University, School of Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, AydÄ±n, Turkey.
(2)Adnan Menderes University, School of Medicine, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Division of Hematology, AydÄ±n, Turkey.

The number of patients of reproductive age diagnosed with various malignant 
hematological diseases increases every year. These patients undergo 
chemotherapy, radiotherapy, and various other treatments that may have 
gonadotoxic effects. The life expectancy of these patients is increasing rapidly 
due to the variety of treatment options. As such, an increasing number of 
patients-as well as their parents and spouses-express their concerns about the 
patient's fertility post treatment. In the present review it was aimed to 
provide an overview of current fertility-preserving treatment options and the 
future of fertility preservation.

Publisher: Her yÄ±l Ã¼reme Ã§aÄÄ±nda Ã§eÅitli malin hematolojik hastalÄ±klara 
yakalanan hasta sayÄ±sÄ± artmaktadÄ±r. Bu hastalar gonadotoksik etkileri olabilen 
kemoterapi, radyoterapi ve Ã§eÅitli tedaviler almaktadÄ±rlar. HastalarÄ±n beklenen 
yaÅam sÃ¼releri ise Ã§eÅitli tedavi seÃ§eneklerinin yardÄ±mÄ± ile hÄ±zla artmaktadÄ±r. 
Bu nedenle giderek artan sayÄ±da hasta, ebeveynleri ve hastalarÄ±n eÅleri tedavi 
sonrasÄ± hastanÄ±n fertilite potansiyeli Ã¼zerine endiÅelerini ifade etmektedirler. 
Bu derlemede gÃ¼ncel fertilite koruyucu tedavi seÃ§enekleri ve fertilite 
prezervasyonunun geleceÄi konusunda bilgi vermek amaÃ§landÄ±.

DOI: 10.5505/tjh.2012.72681
PMCID: PMC3986744
PMID: 24744663


944. Immunol Allergy Clin North Am. 2014 May;34(2):283-95. doi: 
10.1016/j.iac.2014.01.003.

Epidemiology, prognosis, and risk factors in mastocytosis.

Brockow K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Allergy Biederstein, Technische UniversitÃ¤t 
MÃ¼nchen, Biedersteiner Strasse 29, Munich 80802, Germany. Electronic address: 
knut.brockow@lrz.tum.de.

This article updates current knowledge about epidemiology, prognosis, and risk 
factors for major complications in mastocytosis. A prevalence of mastocytosis of 
1 in 10000 inhabitants has been reported, but underdiagnosis is assumed. The 
prognosis for cutaneous and indolent systemic mastocytosis is excellent. For 
more advanced forms of disease, prognostic parameters have been identified. A 
high extent of skin involvement, increased basal serum tryptase values, and 
extensive blistering are risk factors for severe mast cell activation episodes 
in children, whereas these associations seem to be less strong or nonexistent 
for anaphylaxis and osteoporosis in adult patients with indolent systemic 
mastocytosis.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.iac.2014.01.003
PMID: 24745674 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. J Biomech. 2014 Aug 22;47(11):2779-85. doi: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2014.01.053.
Epub  2014 Mar 13.

Dynamics of wrist and forearm rotations.

Peaden AW(1), Charles SK(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Brigham Young University, 435 CTB, 
Provo, UT 84602, United States.
(2)Department of Mechanical Engineering, Brigham Young University, 435 CTB, 
Provo, UT 84602, United States; Neuroscience Center, Brigham Young University, 
435 CTB, Provo, UT 84602, United States. Electronic address: skcharles@byu.edu.

Human movement generally involves multiple degrees of freedom (DOF) coordinated 
in a graceful and seemingly effortless manner even though the underlying 
dynamics are generally complex. Understanding these dynamics is important 
because it exposes the challenges that the neuromuscular system faces in 
controlling movement. Despite the importance of wrist and forearm rotations in 
everyday life, the dynamics of movements involving wrist and forearm rotations 
are currently unknown. Here we present equations of motion describing the 
torques required to produce movements combining flexion-extension (FE) and 
radial-ulnar deviation (RUD) of the wrist and pronation-supination (PS) of the 
forearm. The total torque is comprised of components required to overcome the 
effects of inertia, damping, stiffness, and gravity. Using experimentally 
measured kinematic data and subject-specific impedance parameters (inertia, 
damping, and stiffness), we evaluated movement torques to test the following 
hypotheses: the dynamics of wrist and forearm rotations are (1) dominated by 
stiffness, not inertial or damping effects, (2) significantly coupled through 
interaction torques due to stiffness and damping (but not inertia), and (3) too 
complex to be well approximated by a simple, linear model. We found that (1) the 
dynamics of movements combining the wrist and forearm are similar to wrist 
rotations in that stiffness dominates over inertial and damping effects 
(p<0.0001) by approximately an order of magnitude, (2) the DOF of the wrist and 
forearm are significantly coupled through stiffness, while interactions due to 
inertia and damping are small, and (3) despite the complexity of the exact 
equations of motion, the dynamics of wrist and forearm rotations are well 
approximated by a simple, linear (but still coupled) model (the mean error in 
predicting torque was less than 1% of the maximum torque). The exact and 
approximate models are presented for modeling wrist and forearm rotations in 
future studies.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiomech.2014.01.053
PMID: 24745814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Oral Oncol. 2014 Jul;50(7):646-50. doi: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2014.03.011.
Epub  2014 Apr 18.

Estimation of life expectancy and quality-adjusted life expectancy in 
non-metastatic nasopharyngeal cancer patients treated by intensity-modulated 
radiotherapy with or without chemotherapy.

Lai CH(1), Chen MF(2), Fang FM(3), Chen WC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi, 
Taiwan; College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Kaohsiung, 
Taiwan.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Chang Gung Memorial Hospital, Chiayi, 
Taiwan; College of Medicine, Chang Gung University, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
danielchen@cgmh.org.tw.

PURPOSE: This study was designed to estimate the life expectancy (LE) and 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) in non-metastatic nasopharyngeal cancer 
(NPC) patients.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Patients were eligible for the present study if they were 
diagnosed with NPC and had been treated with intensity-modulated radiotherapy 
(IMRT) between January 1, 2003 and December 31, 2010. The quality of life (QOL) 
data were collected using the questionnaires of the European Organization for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 and QLQ-H&N35. The LE of NPC 
patients was obtained using linear extrapolation of a logit-transformed curve 
and was adjusted by the corresponding QOL function to calculate the QALE.
RESULTS: During the study period, 110 patients met the inclusion criteria, and 
53 of these completed questionnaires. The median follow-up was 65.2 months 
(range 4.0-117.3 months). The average LE and QALE were estimated to be 20.6 
years and 11.6 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for NPC patients and 24.4 
years and 24.4 QALYs for the reference population, respectively. Compared to the 
reference population, the loss of LE and QALE for NPC patients were 3.8 years 
and 12.8 QALYs, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study offers a quick overview of the LE and the QALE of NPC 
patients treated with IMRT. Moreover, the results appear more understandable 
than the 5 year survival outcomes when communicating with patients or the 
general population regarding cancer risk. In the future, evaluating the 
robustness of comparative assessments for the outcome of NPC patients undergoing 
different treatment protocols will be possible.

Copyright Â© 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.oraloncology.2014.03.011
PMID: 24747031 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. G3 (Bethesda). 2014 Apr 17;4(6):1113-21. doi: 10.1534/g3.114.010595.

A strategy to identify dominant point mutant modifiers of a quantitative trait.

Dove WF(1), Shedlovsky A(2), Clipson L(2), Amos-Landgraf JM(2), Halberg RB(2), 
Krentz KJ(2), Boehm FJ(3), Newton MA(4), Adams DJ(5), Keane TM(5).

Author information:
(1)McArdle Laboratory for Cancer Research, Department of Oncology, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706 Laboratory of Genetics, University 
of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706 dove@oncology.wisc.edu.
(2)McArdle Laboratory for Cancer Research, Department of Oncology, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706.
(3)Department of Statistics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 
53706.
(4)Department of Statistics, University of Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 
53706 Department of Biostatistics and Medical Informatics, University of 
Wisconsin-Madison, Madison, Wisconsin 53706.
(5)Wellcome Trust Sanger Institute, Hinxton, Cambridge, UK.

A central goal in the analysis of complex traits is to identify genes that 
modify a phenotype. Modifiers of a cancer phenotype may act either intrinsically 
or extrinsically on the salient cell lineage. Germline point mutagenesis by 
ethylnitrosourea can provide alleles for a gene of interest that include loss-, 
gain-, or alteration-of-function. Unlike strain polymorphisms, point mutations 
with heterozygous quantitative phenotypes are detectable in both essential and 
nonessential genes and are unlinked from other variants that might confound 
their identification and analysis. This report analyzes strategies seeking 
quantitative mutational modifiers of Apc(Min) in the mouse. To identify a 
quantitative modifier of a phenotype of interest, a cluster of test progeny is 
needed. The cluster size can be increased as necessary for statistical 
significance if the founder is a male whose sperm is cryopreserved. A second 
critical element in this identification is a mapping panel free of polymorphic 
modifiers of the phenotype, to enable low-resolution mapping followed by 
targeted resequencing to identify the causative mutation. Here, we describe the 
development of a panel of six "isogenic mapping partner lines" for C57BL/6J, 
carrying single-nucleotide markers introduced by mutagenesis. One such 
derivative, B6.SNVg, shown to be phenotypically neutral in combination with 
Apc(Min), is an appropriate mapping partner to locate induced mutant modifiers 
of the Apc(Min) phenotype. The evolved strategy can complement four current 
major initiatives in the genetic analysis of complex systems: the Genome-wide 
Association Study; the Collaborative Cross; the Knockout Mouse Project; and The 
Cancer Genome Atlas.

Copyright Â© 2014 Dove et al.

DOI: 10.1534/g3.114.010595
PMCID: PMC4065254
PMID: 24747760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Int J Public Health. 2014 Jun;59(3):571-4. doi: 10.1007/s00038-014-0553-y.
Epub  2014 Apr 21.

DALY calculation in practice: a stepwise approach.

Devleesschauwer B(1), Havelaar AH, Maertens de Noordhout C, Haagsma JA, Praet N, 
Dorny P, Duchateau L, Torgerson PR, Van Oyen H, Speybroeck N.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Public Health, Institute of Health and Society (IRSS), UniversitÃ© 
Catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium, Brecht.Devleesschauwer@UGent.be.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-014-0553-y
PMID: 24748107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 18;9(4):e95595. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095595. 
eCollection 2014.

The cost-effectiveness of wound-edge protection devices compared to standard 
care in reducing surgical site infection after laparotomy: an economic 
evaluation alongside the ROSSINI trial.

Gheorghe A(1), Roberts TE(2), Pinkney TD(3), Bartlett DC(4), Morton D(3), 
Calvert M(5); West Midlands Research Collaborative; ROSSINI Trial Investigators.

Collaborators: Pinkney T, Bartlett D, Mak T, Youseff H, Harrison G, Hawkins W, 
Morton D, Wilson S, Calvert M, Dowswell G, Redman V, Ryan R, Magill L, Bradbury 
J, Gill M, Berkman L, Leaper D, Dunn J, Hill J, Obichere A, Bradbury J, Dowswell 
G, Ghods-Ghorbani M, Haslop R, Redman V, Calvert M, Gheorghe A, Roberts T, 
Bartlett D, Bhangu A, Futaba K, Harrison G, Hepburn E, Macleod S, Mak T, 
Marriott P, Mistry P, Pinkney T, Youssef H, Calvert M, Dowswell G, Redman V, 
Haslop R, Warmington S, Gheorghe A, Kingsnorth A, Hardman J, Bowley D, Carlson 
G, Selvaseter S, Khan A, Hamouda A, Wegstapel H, Youssef H, Clarke S, Acheson A, 
Hurst N, Boorman P, Patel R, Cruickshank N, Siddiqui K, Pullan R, Morton D, 
Lengyel J, Church R, Francombe J, Paraoan M, Aroori S, Bowles M, Brundell S, 
Kingsnorth A, Stell D, Chapman M, Raju T, Bowley D, Hendrickse C, Karandikar S, 
Richardson M, Super P, Anderson I, Carlson G, Lees N, Speake D, Vickers J, 
Watson D, Khan AU, Slavin J, Bailey S, Andrews S, Garrett W, Gandhi P, Wegstapel 
H, Badger I, Curran F, Elgaddal S, Gardecki T, Isgar B, Manu M, Soulsby R, 
Williams GJ, Youssef H, Clarke S, Jenkins I, Kennedy R, Phillips R, Acheson A, 
Maxwell-Armstrong C, Simpson J, Willliams J, Hurst N, Iftikhar SY, Larvin M, 
Lund J, Quarmby J, Reynolds J, Speake W, Tierney G, Boorman P, Daniels I, 
Mansfield S, Jayatunga A, Kawesha A, Macleod S, Patel R, Pathak R, Rehman A, 
