essentially a systemic disease. These include duodenal and peri-ampullary 
adenomas and carcinoma, desmoid tumors, papillary-type thyroid carcinoma and 
pancreatic carcinoma among others. With improved management that reduces the 
risk of colorectal cancer, these extracolonic manifestations have become of 
increasing clinical significance. For all FAP patients, including those 
undergoing proctocolectomy, thorough surveillance is of vital importance as 
there remains a risk of developing neoplasia. Despite advances in surgical 
techniques, screening and surveillance, life expectancy in patients with FAP is 
still less than that of the general population.

PMCID: PMC3959379
PMID: 24714154

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None


850. Nat Commun. 2014 Apr 8;5:3563. doi: 10.1038/ncomms4563.

D-Glucosamine supplementation extends life span of nematodes and of ageing mice.

Weimer S(1), Priebs J(2), Kuhlow D(3), Groth M(4), Priebe S(5), Mansfeld J(6), 
Merry TL(7), Dubuis S(8), Laube B(9), Pfeiffer AF(10), Schulz TJ(10), Guthke 
R(5), Platzer M(4), Zamboni N(8), Zarse K(9), Ristow M(11).

Author information:
(1)1] Energy Metabolism Laboratory, ETH Zürich (Swiss Federal Institute of 
Technology Zurich), Zürich CH-8603, Switzerland [2] German Institute of Human 
Nutrition Potsdam-Rehbrücke, D-14558 Nuthetal, Germany [3].
(2)1] Department of Human Nutrition, Institute of Nutrition, University of Jena, 
D-07743 Jena, Germany [2].
(3)1] German Institute of Human Nutrition Potsdam-Rehbrücke, D-14558 Nuthetal, 
Germany [2] Department of Human Nutrition, Institute of Nutrition, University of 
Jena, D-07743 Jena, Germany.
(4)Genome Analysis Group, Leibniz Institute for Age Research, 
Fritz-Lipmann-Institute, D-07745 Jena, Germany.
(5)Systems Biology and Bioinformatics Group, Leibniz Institute for Natural 
Product Research and Infection Biology, Hans-Knöll-Institute, D-07745 Jena, 
Germany.
(6)1] Energy Metabolism Laboratory, ETH Zürich (Swiss Federal Institute of 
Technology Zurich), Zürich CH-8603, Switzerland [2] Department of Human 
Nutrition, Institute of Nutrition, University of Jena, D-07743 Jena, Germany [3] 
DFG Graduate School of Adaptive Stress Response #1715, D-07745 Jena, Germany.
(7)Energy Metabolism Laboratory, ETH Zürich (Swiss Federal Institute of 
Technology Zurich), Zürich CH-8603, Switzerland.
(8)Institute of Molecular Systems Biology, ETH Zürich (Swiss Federal Institute 
of Technology Zurich), Zürich CH-8093, Switzerland.
(9)1] Energy Metabolism Laboratory, ETH Zürich (Swiss Federal Institute of 
Technology Zurich), Zürich CH-8603, Switzerland [2] Department of Human 
Nutrition, Institute of Nutrition, University of Jena, D-07743 Jena, Germany.
(10)German Institute of Human Nutrition Potsdam-Rehbrücke, D-14558 Nuthetal, 
Germany.
(11)1] Energy Metabolism Laboratory, ETH Zürich (Swiss Federal Institute of 
Technology Zurich), Zürich CH-8603, Switzerland [2] German Institute of Human 
Nutrition Potsdam-Rehbrücke, D-14558 Nuthetal, Germany [3] Department of Human 
Nutrition, Institute of Nutrition, University of Jena, D-07743 Jena, Germany.

D-Glucosamine (GlcN) is a freely available and commonly used dietary supplement 
potentially promoting cartilage health in humans, which also acts as an 
inhibitor of glycolysis. Here we show that GlcN, independent of the hexosamine 
pathway, extends Caenorhabditis elegans life span by impairing glucose 
metabolism that activates AMP-activated protein kinase (AMPK/AAK-2) and 
increases mitochondrial biogenesis. Consistent with the concept of mitohormesis, 
GlcN promotes increased formation of mitochondrial reactive oxygen species (ROS) 
culminating in increased expression of the nematodal amino acid-transporter 1 
(aat-1) gene. Ameliorating mitochondrial ROS formation or impairment of 
aat-1-expression abolishes GlcN-mediated life span extension in an 
NRF2/SKN-1-dependent fashion. Unlike other calorie restriction mimetics, such as 
2-deoxyglucose, GlcN extends life span of ageing C57BL/6 mice, which show an 
induction of mitochondrial biogenesis, lowered blood glucose levels, enhanced 
expression of several murine amino-acid transporters, as well as increased 
amino-acid catabolism. Taken together, we provide evidence that GlcN extends 
life span in evolutionary distinct species by mimicking a low-carbohydrate diet.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms4563
PMCID: PMC3988823
PMID: 24714520 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


851. J Rehabil Med. 2014 Jul;46(7):642-7. doi: 10.2340/16501977-1821.

Health-related physical fitness of ambulatory adolescents and young adults with 
spastic cerebral palsy.

Nooijen C(1), Slaman J, van der Slot W, Stam H, Roebroeck M, van den Berg-Emons 
R; Learn2Move Research Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine and Physical Therapy, Erasmus Medical 
Center, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands . 
c.nooijen@erasmusmc.nl.

OBJECTIVE: To describe in detail the health-related physical fitness of 
adolescents and young adults with cerebral palsy, compared with able-bodied 
references, and to assess differences related to Gross Motor Functioning 
Classification System (GMFCS) level and distribution of cerebral palsy.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional.
SUBJECTS: Fifty ambulatory persons with spastic cerebral palsy, GMFCS level I or 
II, aged 16-24 years.
METHODS: Physical fitness measures were: (i) cardiopulmonary fitness by maximal 
cycle ergometry, (ii) muscle strength, (iii) body mass index and waist 
circumference, (iv) skin-folds, and (v) lipid profile.
RESULTS: Regression analyses, corrected for age and gender, showed that persons 
with bilateral cerebral palsy had lower cardiopulmonary fitness and lower hip 
abduction muscle strength than those with unilateral cerebral palsy. Comparisons 
between persons with GMFCS levels I and II showed a difference only in peak 
power during cycle ergometry. Cardiopulmonary fitness, hip flexion and knee 
extension strength were considerably lower (< 75%) in persons with cerebral 
palsy than reference values.
CONCLUSION: The distribution of cerebral palsy affects fitness more than GMFCS 
level does. Furthermore, adolescents and young adults with cerebral palsy have 
reduced health-related physical fitness compared with able-bodied persons. This 
stage of life has a strong influence on adult lifestyle, thus it is an important 
period for intervention.

DOI: 10.2340/16501977-1821
PMID: 24714702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


852. Salud Publica Mex. 2013 Dec;55(6):580-94.

[Burden of disease, injuries, risk factors and challenges for the health system 
in Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Lozano R(1), Gómez-Dantés H(2), Garrido-Latorre F(2), Jiménez-Corona A(2), 
Campuzano-Rincón JC(2), Franco-Marina F(3), Medina-Mora ME(4), Borges G(4), 
Naghavi M(5), Wang H(5), Vos T(5), Lopez AD(6), Murray CJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigación en Sistemas de Salud, Instituto Nacional de Salud 
Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, México, 62100, rafael.lozano@insp.mx.
(2)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, México.
(3)Instituto Nacional de Enfermedades Respiratorias, México, DF.
(4)Instituto Nacional de Psiquiatría Ramón de la Fuente Muñiz, México, DF.
(5)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Washington, DC, EUA.
(6)University of Melbourne, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To present the results of the burden of disease, injuries and risk 
factors in Mexico from 1990 to 2010 for the principal illnesses, injuries and 
risk factors by sex.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A secondary analysis of the study results published by 
the Global Burden of Disease 2010 for Mexico performed by IHME.
RESULTS: In 2010, Mexico lost 26.2 million of Disability adjusted live years 
(DALYs), 56 % were in male and 44 % in women. The main causes of DALYs in men 
are violence, ischemic heart disease and road traffic injuries. In the case of 
women the leading causes are diabetes, chronic kidney disease and ischemic heart 
diseases. The mental disorders and musculoskeletal conditions concentrate 18% of 
health lost. The risk factors that most affect men in Mexico are: alcohol 
consumption, overweight/obesity, high blood glucose levels and blood pressure 
and tobacco consumption (35.6 % of DALYs lost). In women, overweight and 
obesity, high blood sugar and blood pressure, lack of physical activity and 
consumption of alcohol are responsible for 40 % of DALYs lost. In both sexes the 
problems with diet contribute 12% of the burden.
CONCLUSIONS: The epidemiological situation in Mexico, demands an urgent 
adaptation and modernization of the health system.

PMID: 24715011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


853. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2014;55(1):91-5.

Cystic fibrosis liver disease - from diagnosis to risk factors.

Ciucă IM(1), Pop L, Tămaş L, Tăban S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics II, "Victor Babes" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Timisoara, Romania; iioanapopa@yahoo.com.

Cystic fibrosis (CF) is the most frequent monogenic genetic disease, autosomal 
recessive transmitted, characterized by an impressive clinical polymorphism and 
appreciative fatal prospective. Liver disease is the second non-pulmonary cause 
of death in cystic fibrosis, which, with increasing life expectancy, became an 
important management problem. Predisposing factors like male gender, pancreatic 
insufficiency, meconium ileus and severe mutation are incriminated to influence 
the occurrence of cystic fibrosis associated liver disease (CFLD). Our study 
included 174 patients with CF, monitored in the National Cystic Fibrosis Centre, 
Timisoara, Romania. They were routinely followed-up by clinical assessment, 
liver biochemical tests, ultrasound examinations and other methods like 
transient elastography, biopsy, in selected cases. Sixty-six patients, with 
median age at diagnosis 4.33 years, diagnosed with CFLD, without significant 
gender gap. CFLD was frequent in patients aged over eight years, with meconium 
ileus history, carriers of severe mutations (p=0.002). Pancreatic insufficiency, 
although present in 75% of patients with CFLD was not confirmed as risk factor, 
not male gender, in our study. CF children older than eight years, carriers of a 
severe genotype, with a positive history of meconium ileus, were more likely 
predisposed to CFLD.

PMID: 24715171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


854. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2014;55(1):135-9.

Immunohistochemistry in diagnosis and surgical treatment of femoral bone 
metastasis.

Bădilă A(1), Rădulescu R, Sajin M, Terinte S, Japie I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics and Traumatology, Bucharest University Hospital, 
"Carol Davila" University of Medicine and Pharmacy, Bucharest, Romania; 
radu_rdlsc@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: When the primary tumor is unknown, the biopsy and the 
histopathological examination (associated with immunohistochemistry and 
molecular profiling) will identify the type and subtype of the tumor and, if 
possible, the site of origin. The classification in type and subtype will allow 
to assess the prognosis and to indicate the most appropriate therapeutic 
approach.
AIM: Identification of the unknown primary tumor by biopsy and 
immunohistochemistry from the femoral bone metastasis, the clinical results and 
the survival rate after osteosynthesis ± cement stabilization of the lesion.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: 52 patients with femoral metastasis were included in a 
prospective study. The gender ratio was 30 women/22 men (average age - 64 years 
and six months; range: 33-82 years). Thirty-three patients had pathologic bone 
fracture, while 19 had osteolytic lesions without fracture. The mean follow-up 
for survivors was 34 months (range: 17-56 months). Surgical treatment consisted 
in hemiarthroplasty, osteosynthesis with DHS (Dynamic Hip Screw), proximal 
femoral nail, locked centromedullary nail or DCS (Dynamic Condylar Screw) ± 
cement. In 19 (36.54%) cases, the primary tumor was not known. In these cases, 
biopsy and histological examination with immunochemistry were performed. 
Twenty-three (52.27%) patients underwent chemotherapy. Clinical and radiological 
check-ups were performed every three months in the first year and every six 
months after that.
RESULTS: Pain was ameliorated in all cases. Deambulation was achieved in 45 out 
of 52 (86.54%) patients. Survival rate was 76.92% (40/52) at six months and 
59.61% (31/52) at 12 months. At the end of the follow-up period, 18 (34.61%) 
patients were alive, 24 (46.15%) were deceased and 10 (19.23%) were lost to 
follow-up. After eliminating the patients lost to follow-up, the survival rate 
was 33.33% (9/27) in the pathologic fracture group and 60% (9/15) in the 
osteolytic lesion without fracture group.
CONCLUSIONS: Most of the patients (86%) could be mobilized immediately after 
surgery. The expected survival rate one year after surgery is around 60%. The 
goals of osteosynthesis are the same, regardless the location of the lesion and 
the implant used: pain amelioration, appropriate stability for immediate full 
weight bearing, durability for patient's life expectancy. All extended 
osteolytic lesions must be reinforced at the time of the surgical procedure. The 
presence of a pathologic fracture is a negative prognosis factor for the medium 
term survival rate.

PMID: 24715178 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


855. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2014;55(1):209-13.

Plurimalformative syndrome associating trisomy 18 and omphalocele. Case report 
and review of the literature.

Ţarcă E(1), Plămădeală P, Savu B.

Author information:
(1)Discipline of Pediatric Surgery and Orthopedics, Department of Mother and 
Child, Faculty of Medicine, "Grigore T. Popa" University of Medicine and 
Pharmacy, Department of Pediatric Surgery, "Saint Mary" Children Hospital, 
Iassy, Romania; tulucelena@yahoo.com.

Trisomy 18 or Edwards syndrome is a rare chromosomal anomaly, associated with 
mild to severe intellectual disabilities and multiple congenital anomalies. 
Trisomies 18 and 13 are lethal, only 5-10% of patients surviving the first year 
of life. Although prenatal biological and ultrasound investigations are 
mandatory and free and the detection rate of chromosomal abnormalities is high, 
the birth of children with no real chance at a normal life being thus avoided by 
therapeutic abortion, the parents of the here presented child did not benefit 
from medical examination or prenatal tests, unfortunately the case of many 
families in Romania. The policy of limiting medical intervention in newborns 
with Edwards syndrome due to the broad spectrum of severe congenital 
malformations, severe mental retard and reduced life expectancy is unanimously 
accepted, but yet difficult to apply from an ethical point of view. That is why 
very important for both healthcare providers and families to have accurate and 
detailed knowledge of survival, disease course, and quality of life so that they 
can make fully informed decisions regarding care of these babies. The 
particularity of this case is the association of multiple congenital anomalies 
in a male newborn with trisomy 18, almost all apparata and systems being 
affected, with the presence of an omphalocele and complete right labiopalatine 
cleft, which are less frequent at children with trisomy 18.

PMID: 24715190 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


856. Wien Med Wochenschr. 2014 May;164(9-10):189-94. doi:
10.1007/s10354-014-0274-0.  Epub 2014 Apr 9.

[Tools for optimizing pharmacotherapy for geriatric patients with multimorbidity 
at the end of life: helpful oder just raising awareness?].

[Article in German]

Riesinger R(1), Iglseder B.

Author information:
(1)Palliativstation, Krankenhaus der Barmherzigen Schwestern, Schlossberg 1, 
4910, Ried im Innkreis, Österreich, renate.riesinger@BHS.at.

Pharmacotherapy for end-of-life patients with multimorbidity is a major 
challenge. Estimating prognosis can be much more difficult when compared to 
patients suffering from cancer alone.Nevertheless, it is crucial in order to 
prescribe in the context of the following determining factors: disease, 
co-morbidities, functional status, life expectancy and therapy goals.Since such 
patients are prone to adverse drug reactions, inappropriate prescriptions should 
be avoided, since evidence concerning the benefits or risks for various drugs 
used is as yet inadequate.Several tools can be of help to improve 
pharmacotherapy for this vulnerable group of patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s10354-014-0274-0
PMID: 24715194 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


857. Herz. 2014 May;39(3):306-11. doi: 10.1007/s00059-014-4093-2.

[Heart failure. Cardiovascular autonomic neuropathy in patients with diabetes 
mellitus].

[Article in German]

Bellmann B(1), Tschöpe C.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Kardiologie und Pulmologie, Charité Berlin, Campus Benjamin 
Franklin, Hindenburgdamm 30, 12203, Berlin, Deutschland, 
barbara.bellmann@charite.de.

In spite of new therapy options the life expectancy of patients with diabetes 
mellitus is clearly reduced compared to the average population. In addition to 
coronary heart disease and diabetic cardiomyopathy, cardiac autonomic neuropathy 
(CAN) is also a factor in patients with diabetes mellitus. The CAN is an 
impairment of cardiovascular control. A reduced variability of heart rate up to 
the point of a fixed heart rate are symptoms of CAN. In addition symptomatic 
hypotension, a reduced left ventricular ejection fraction, cardiac arrhythmia 
and sudden cardiac death are also signs of CAN. Prevalence rates of CAN increase 
with age and are approximately 38 % in patients 40-70 years old with diabetes 
mellitus type 1 and 44 % in patients with diabetes mellitus type 2. The disease 
is usually documented using miscellaneous cardiovascular autonomic tests so that 
therapy can be started as soon as possible.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-014-4093-2
PMID: 24715197 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


858. Strahlenther Onkol. 2014 Jun;190(6):521-32. doi: 10.1007/s00066-014-0648-7.
Epub  2014 Apr 9.

Stereotactic radiosurgery for treatment of brain metastases. A report of the 
DEGRO Working Group on Stereotactic Radiotherapy.

Kocher M(1), Wittig A, Piroth MD, Treuer H, Seegenschmiedt H, Ruge M, Grosu AL, 
Guckenberger M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University Hospital Cologne, 
Joseph-Stelzmann-Str. 9, 50924, Köln, Germany, martin.kocher@uk-koeln.de.

BACKGROUND: This report from the Working Group on Stereotaktische Radiotherapie 
of the German Society of Radiation Oncology (Deutsche Gesellschaft für 
Radioonkologie, DEGRO) provides recommendations for the use of stereotactic 
radiosurgery (SRS) on patients with brain metastases. It considers existing 
international guidelines and details them where appropriate.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: The main recommendations are: Patients with solid tumors 
except germ cell tumors and small-cell lung cancer with a life expectancy of 
more than 3 months suffering from a single brain metastasis of less than 3 cm in 
diameter should be considered for SRS. Especially when metastases are not 
amenable to surgery, are located in the brain stem, and have no mass effect, SRS 
should be offered to the patient. For multiple (two to four) metastases--all 
less than 2.5 cm in diameter--in patients with a life expectancy of more than 3 
months, SRS should be used rather than whole-brain radiotherapy (WBRT). Adjuvant 
WBRT after SRS for both single and multiple (two to four) metastases increases 
local control and reduces the frequency of distant brain metastases, but does 
not prolong survival when compared with SRS and salvage treatment. As WBRT 
carries the risk of inducing neurocognitive damage, it seems reasonable to 
withhold WBRT for as long as possible.
CONCLUSION: A single (marginal) dose of 20 Gy is a reasonable choice that 
balances the effect on the treated lesion (local control, partial remission) 
against the risk of late side effects (radionecrosis). Higher doses (22-25 Gy) 
may be used for smaller (< 1 cm) lesions, while a dose reduction to 18 Gy may be 
necessary for lesions greater than 2.5-3 cm. As the infiltration zone of the 
brain metastases is usually small, the GTV-CTV (gross tumor volume-clinical 
target volume) margin should be in the range of 0-1 mm. The CTV-PTV (planning 
target volume) margin depends on the treatment technique and should lie in the 
range of 0-2 mm. Distant brain recurrences fulfilling the aforementioned 
criteria can be treated with SRS irrespective of previous WBRT.

DOI: 10.1007/s00066-014-0648-7
PMID: 24715242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


859. Actas Esp Psiquiatr. 2014 Mar-Apr;42(2):74-82. Epub 2014 Mar 1.

Schizophrenia and cerebrovascular disease. A description of a series and 
bibliographic reivew.

Berrocal-Izquierdo N(1), Bernardo M(2).

Author information:
(1)Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Dèu. Servicio de Neurología. Sant Boi de 
Llobregat, Barcelona.
(2)Programa de Esquizofrenia Clínic. Hospital Clínic. Universitat de Barcelona. 
IDIBAPS. CIBERSAM.

INTRODUCTION: The state of health of patients with schizophrenia is a field of 
growing interest that has probably not received sufficient attention in the 
past. It is currently held that physical health should form a part of the 
overall therapeutic strategy in these patients since reference is made to 
certain treatable conditions that may affect the final prognosis. One example is 
cardiovascular disease and its associated reduction in life expectancy.
DEVELOPMENT: We carried out a retrospective study in which we described the 
consultations held between the psychiatric acute care service and the neurology 
service during a one-year period. We have analyzed the frequency of 
cerebrovascular complications in our sample and have included a summary of the 
most relevant published data regarding cerebrovascular disease (CVD) in patients 
with schizophrenia.
CONCLUSIONS: We have described the high frequency of CVD in both our series of 
patients with severe mental illness receiving attention as well as in those from 
the neurology service (25.7%), and in the subgroup presenting psychotic 
disorders (25%). There are several studies focusing on the possible causes of 
increased cardiovascular morbidity and mortality, especially in schizophrenia. 
However, in regards to CVD specifically, little has been found in the literature 
and that found shows contradictory results. Given the direct relation between 
cardiovascular disease and CVD, a consistent relation between CVD and 
schizophrenia is to be expected.

PMID: 24715365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


860. J Gen Intern Med. 2014 Aug;29(8):1155-61. doi: 10.1007/s11606-014-2831-z.
Epub  2014 Apr 9.

Abdominal aortic aneurysm screening: how many life years lost from underuse of 
the medicare screening benefit?

Olchanski N(1), Winn A, Cohen JT, Neumann PJ.

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA, 
nolchanski@tuftsmedicalcenter.org.

Comment in
    J Gen Intern Med. 2014 Aug;29(8):1165.

BACKGROUND: Since 2007, Medicare has provided one-time abdominal aortic aneurysm 
(AAA) screening for men with smoking history, and men and women with a family 
history of AAA as part of its Welcome to Medicare visit.
OBJECTIVE: We examined utilization of the new AAA screening benefit and 
estimated how increased utilization could influence population health as 
measured by life years gained. Additionally, we explored the impact of expanding 
screening to women with smoking history.
DESIGN: Analysis of Medicare claims and a simulation model to estimate the 
effects of screening, using published data for parameter estimates.
SETTING: AAA screening in the primary care setting.
PATIENTS: Newly-enrolled Medicare beneficiaries aged 65 years, with smoking 
history or family history of AAA.
MAIN MEASURES: Life expectancy, 10-year survival rates.
KEY RESULTS: Medicare data revealed low utilization of AAA screening, under 1% 
among those eligible. We estimate that screening could increase life expectancy 
per individual invited to screening for men with smoking history (0.11 years), 
with family history of AAA (0.17 years), and women with family history (0.08 
years), and smoking history (0.09 years). Average gains of 131 life years per 
1,000 persons screened for AAA compare favorably with the grade B United States 
Preventive Services Task Force (USPSTF) recommendation for breast cancer 
screening, which yields 95-128 life years per 1,000 women screened. These 
findings were robust over a range of scenarios.
LIMITATIONS: The simulation results reflect assumptions regarding AAA 
prevalence, treatment, and outcomes in specific populations based on published 
research and US survey data. Published data on women were limited.
CONCLUSIONS: The Welcome to Medicare and AAA screening benefits have been 
underutilized. Increasing utilization of AAA screening would yield substantial 
gains in life expectancy. Expanding screening to women with smoking history also 
has the potential for substantial health benefits.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-014-2831-z
PMCID: PMC4099445
PMID: 24715406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Jun;32(6):601-12. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0152-z.

Economic evaluation of warfarin, dabigatran, rivaroxaban, and apixaban for 
stroke prevention in atrial fibrillation.

Wisløff T(1), Hagen G, Klemp M.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Knowledge Centre for the Health Services, Postboks 7004, St. Olavs 
Plass, 0130, Oslo, Norway, twisloff@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation is a major risk factor for stroke, which causes 
thousands of deaths and sequelae. It is recommended that atrial fibrillation 
patients at medium or high risk of stroke use an oral anticoagulant to reduce 
the risk of stroke. In the past few years, three new oral anticoagulants 
(NOACs), dabigatran, rivaroxaban, and apixaban, have been introduced in 
competition to the older oral anticoagulant warfarin.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to evaluate the relative cost 
effectiveness of warfarin, dabigatran, rivaroxaban, and apixaban in a Norwegian 
setting.
METHODS: We created a probabilistic decision-analytic Markov model to simulate 
the life of patients with atrial fibrillation. We performed several scenario 
analyses, including changing the switching age for dabigatran from 80 to 75 
years old.
RESULTS: Assuming the European Society of Cardiology guidance, sequential 
dabigatran (2 × 150 mg daily until 80 years old, 2 × 110 mg thereafter) seems to 
be the most cost-effective alternative for high-risk AF patients. For 
medium-risk patients, apixaban (2 × 5 mg daily) seems to be somewhat more 
effective than dabigatran, but dabigatran is still marginally the most 
cost-effective alternative. In scenario analyses reducing dabigatran from 2 × 
150 mg to 2 × 110 mg at the age of 75 years (instead of at age 80), apixaban (2 
× 5 mg daily) becomes the most cost-effective alternative for both risk groups.
CONCLUSION: We have found apixaban or sequential dabigatran to be the 
alternatives most likely to be considered cost effective, depending on the 
switching age for dabigatran. These conclusions are highly sensitive to 
assumptions made in the analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0152-z
PMCID: PMC4031399
PMID: 24715603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. Breast Care (Basel). 2012 Dec;7(6):445-51. doi: 10.1159/000345402.

Choices in surgery for older women with breast cancer.

Swaminathan V(1), Spiliopoulos MK(2), Audisio RA(3).

Author information:
(1)FY2 Surgery, Southport and Ormskirk NHS Trust, Liverpool, England, UK.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Democritus University of Thrace, Athens, Greece.
(3)Consultant Breast Oncological Surgeon, St Helens Teaching Hospital, St 
Helens, UK.

Breast cancer is a major cause of mortality worldwide. As the population ages 
and life expectancy increases, the burden of cancer on health services will 
increase. Older patients with breast cancer are becoming more suitable for 
surgery; tailored surgical techniques and increasing healthy life expectancy 
alongside improved assessment of patients are aiding this trend. Surgery is also 
becoming a favoured treatment of personal choice for older patient with breast 
cancer. Evidence shows that surgery is almost always feasible for the older 
patient with outcomes (survival, progression, and recurrence rates) comparable 
to younger groups and superior to non-surgical treatments. We aim to describe 
the current status of surgery for the older patient with breast cancer, showing 
it is an option that should not be denied. Surgery should always be considered 
regardless of age, after evaluation of co-morbidities.

Publisher: Brustkrebs ist eine der weltweit häufigsten Sterbeursachen. Die älter 
werdende Bevölkerung und zunehmende Lebenserwartung führen dazu, dass die 
Gesundheitsversorgung stärker belastet wird. Für ältere Patientinnen mit 
Mammakarzinomen besteht zunehmend die Option der chirurgischen Versorgung, was 
durch maßgeschneiderte chirurgische Verfahren, eine höhere gesunde 
Lebenserwartung und verbesserte Patientenuntersuchungen unterstützt wird. 
Desweiteren wird die chirurgische Behandlung zunehmend zur bevorzugten 
Therapieform der persönlichen Wahl bei älteren Mammakarzinompatientinnen. 
Studien haben gezeigt, dass die chirurgische Behandlung bei fast allen älteren 
Patientinnen möglich ist und ein Outcome (Überleben, Progression und 
Rezidivrate) erzielt, das mit dem jüngerer Patientengruppen vergleichbar ist und 
dem Outcome nichtchirurgischer Therapieansätze überlegen ist. Ziel dieser 
Übersichtsarbeit ist es, den aktuellen Stand der chirurgischen Versorgung 
älterer Mammakarzinompatientinnen zu beschreiben und ihren Wert als eine nicht 
zu unterschlagende Therapieoption aufzuzeigen. Nach Einschätzung existierender 
Komorbiditäten sollte die chirurgische Versorung unabhängig vom Alter in jedem 
Fall in Erwägung gezogen werden.

DOI: 10.1159/000345402
PMCID: PMC3971807
PMID: 24715825


863. Management of Diabetes in the Long-Term Care Population: A Review of
Guidelines  [Internet].

Ottawa (ON): Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health; 2013 Nov 26.
CADTH Rapid Response Reports.

The economic, social and health burden of diabetes is significant, especially in 
the elderly population. This is a common disease that affects more than 20% of 
adults aged 65 to 75 years and 40% of adults older than 80 years. The prevalence 
of diabetes in long-term care (LTC) facilities is similar to that in the general 
population, but may be underestimated. Previous studies indicated that in a 
Canadian long-term care facility, a screening program reclassified a third of 
residents as having diabetes during a three-year period. Management of diabetes 
in LTC facilities is challenging due to the under-resourced environment and the 
nature of this specific population (e.g. age, higher rates of premature death, 
functional disability, and more co-morbidities than non-diabetics). Besides 
lifestyle modification and pharmacological therapy, blood glucose monitoring 
(levels of blood glucose or HbA1c) is also essential to ensure satisfactory 
glycemic control. Due to the metabolic differences of diabetes in the elderly 
compared with younger patients, the approaches of disease management should be 
different. The burden of rigourous near normal glycemic control (e.g. cost of 
patient discomfort) may outweigh the benefits (such as preventing long-term 
complications) in this population. Previous clinical practice guidelines have 
suggested that the glycemic target should be individualized based on the 
patient’s functional status: patients with good functional status should be 
maintained at HbA1c lower than 7%, whereas those who are frail (have multiple 
co-morbidities, increased risk of hypoglycemia or have a life expectancy of 
fewer than 5 years) should be maintained at a less stringent target of lower 
than 8%. CADTH published a report in 2010 for the purpose of summarizing 
guideline recommendations regarding the management of diabetes in a long-term 
care population, but limited evidence was found. The purpose of this review is 
to identify any evidence and recommendations noted in the evidence-based 
guidelines for blood glucose monitoring in diabetic patients in LTC setting.

Copyright © 2013 Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health.

PMID: 24716259


864. BMC Palliat Care. 2014 Apr 10;13(1):20. doi: 10.1186/1472-684X-13-20.

Motivations of physicians and nurses to practice voluntary euthanasia: a 
systematic review.

Vézina-Im LA, Lavoie M(1), Krol P, Olivier-D'Avignon M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Nursing, Laval University, Québec, Canada. 
mireille.lavoie@fsi.ulaval.ca.

BACKGROUND: While a number of reviews have explored the attitude of health 
professionals toward euthanasia, none of them documented their motivations to 
practice euthanasia. The objective of the present systematic review was to 
identify physicians' and nurses' motives for having the intention or for 
performing an act of voluntary euthanasia and compare findings from countries 
where the practice is legalized to those where it is not.
METHODS: The following databases were investigated: MEDLINE/PubMed (1950+), 
PsycINFO (1806+), CINAHL (1982+), EMBASE (1974+) and FRANCIS (1984+). Proquest 
Dissertations and Theses (1861+) was also investigated for gray literature. 
Additional studies were included by checking the references of the articles 
included in the systematic review as well as by looking at our personal 
collection of articles on euthanasia.
RESULTS: This paper reviews a total of 27 empirical quantitative studies out of 
the 1 703 articles identified at the beginning. Five studies were in countries 
where euthanasia is legal and 22 in countries where it is not. Seventeen studies 
were targeting physicians, 9 targeted nurses and 1 both health professionals. 
Six studies identified the motivations underlying the intention to practice 
euthanasia, 16 the behavior itself and 5 both intention and behavior. The 
category of variables most consistently associated with euthanasia is 
psychological variables. All categories collapsed, the four variables most 
frequently associated with euthanasia are past behavior, medical specialty, 
whether the patient is depressed and the patient's life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: The present review suggests that physicians and nurses are 
motivated to practice voluntary euthanasia especially when they are familiar 
with the act of euthanasia, when the patient does not have depressive symptoms 
and has a short life expectancy and their motivation varies according to their 
medical specialty. Additional studies among nurses and in countries where 
euthanasia is legal are needed.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-684X-13-20
PMCID: PMC4021095
PMID: 24716567


865. Ann Med. 2014 Aug;46(5):283-9. doi: 10.3109/07853890.2014.898863. Epub 2014
Apr  10.

Myelodysplastic syndromes in the United States: an update for clinicians.

Troy JD(1), Atallah E, Geyer JT, Saber W.

Author information:
(1)The EMMES Corporation , Rockville, MD , USA.

Myelodysplastic syndromes (MDS) are heterogeneous malignant bone marrow 
disorders diagnosed most often in elderly white persons. MDS have significant 
clinical consequences, including cytopenias leading to infection, bleeding, and 
death; and approximately one-third of cases progress to acute myeloid leukemia 
(AML). Only one potentially curative therapy exists-allogeneic hematopoietic 
stem cell transplant (HSCT)-but this therapy is not widely used due to 
associated morbidity and mortality in elderly patients. Recent research suggests 
MDS occurs more frequently than previously thought and may be responsible for a 
substantial proportion of unexplained anemias in elderly persons. Incidence of 
MDS is expected to increase with increases in life expectancy. Therefore, we 
offer this comprehensive narrative update of MDS to inform the medical community 
treating the population at risk for MDS, with a focus on MDS epidemiology and 
clinical management in the United States. This review includes a brief 
historical background of MDS, provides an overview of the population burden of 
disease, discusses the molecular pathology of MDS, describes the clinical 
features and management of MDS, and discusses future directions in MDS research. 
Our objective is to inform general medicine practitioners and call attention to 
the need for translational research in MDS.

DOI: 10.3109/07853890.2014.898863
PMID: 24716735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Health Educ Behav. 2014 Dec;41(6):599-604. doi: 10.1177/1090198114529591.
Epub  2014 Apr 9.

They lift my spirit up: stakeholders' perspectives on support teams for African 
Americans facing serious illness.

Jackson LC(1), Hanson LC(2), Hayes M(2), Green M(2), Peacock S(2), Corbie-Smith 
G(2).

Author information:
(1)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC, USA leroncjackson@gmail.com.
(2)University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, NC, USA.

BACKGROUND: Active social and spiritual support for persons with cancer and 
other serious illnesses has been shown to improve psychological adjustment to 
illness and quality of life.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate a community-based support team intervention within the 
African American community using stakeholder interviews.
METHODS: Support team members were recruited from African American churches, 
community organizations, and the social network of individuals with serious 
illness. Support teams provided practical, emotional, and spiritual care for 
persons with cancer and other serious illness. The intervention was evaluated 
using semistructured interviews with 47 stakeholders including those with 
serious illness, support team volunteers, clergy, and medical providers.
RESULTS: Stakeholders report multiple benefits to participation in the support 
team; themes included provision of emotional and spiritual support, extension of 
support to patients' family, and support complementary to medical care. Reported 
barriers to participation were grouped thematically as desiring to maintain a 
sense of independence and normalcy; limitations of volunteers were also 
discussed as a barrier to this model of supportive care.
CONCLUSIONS: This qualitative evaluation provides initial evidence that a 
support team intervention helped meet the emotional and spiritual needs of 
African American persons with cancer or other serious illness. Volunteer support 
teams merit further study as a way to improve quality of life for persons facing 
serious illness.

© 2014 Society for Public Health Education.

DOI: 10.1177/1090198114529591
PMCID: PMC4384047
PMID: 24717192 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Kidney Int. 2014 Oct;86(4):747-56. doi: 10.1038/ki.2014.102. Epub 2014 Apr
9.

Targeted deletion of kidney glucose-6 phosphatase leads to nephropathy.

Clar J(1), Gri B(1), Calderaro J(2), Birling MC(3), Hérault Y(3), Smit GP(4), 
Mithieux G(1), Rajas F(1).

Author information:
(1)1] Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale, U855, Lyon, 
France [2] Université de Lyon, Lyon, France [3] Université Lyon 1, Villeurbanne, 
France.
(2)Département de Pathologie, Hôpital Henri Mondor, Créteil, France.
(3)Institut Clinique de la Souris, Phenomin IGBMC, CNRS, Université de 
Strasbourg INSERM, U964, Illkirch, France.
(4)Universitair Medisch Centrum Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.

Renal failure is a major complication that arises with aging in glycogen storage 
disease type 1a and type 1b patients. In the kidneys, glucose-6 phosphatase 
catalytic subunit (encoded by G6pc) deficiency leads to the accumulation of 
glycogen, an effect resulting in marked nephromegaly and progressive glomerular 
hyperperfusion and hyperfiltration preceding the development of microalbuminuria 
and proteinuria. To better understand the end-stage nephropathy in glycogen 
storage disease type 1a, we generated a novel kidney-specific G6pc knockout 
(K-G6pc(-/-)) mouse, which exhibited normal life expectancy. After 6 months, 
K-G6pc(-/-) mice showed glycogen overload leading to nephromegaly and tubular 
dilation. Moreover, renal accumulation of lipids due to activation of de novo 
lipogenesis was observed. This led to the activation of the renin-angiotensin 
system and the development of epithelial-mesenchymal transition process and 
podocyte injury by transforming growth factor β1 signaling. The K-G6pc(-/-) mice 
developed microalbuminuria caused by the impairment of the glomerular filtration 
barrier. Thus, renal G6pc deficiency alone is sufficient to induce the 
development of the early-onset nephropathy observed in glycogen storage disease 
type 1a, independent of the liver disease. The K-G6pc(-/-) mouse model is a 
unique tool to decipher the molecular mechanisms underlying renal failure and to 
evaluate potential therapeutic strategies.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.2014.102
PMCID: PMC5678048
PMID: 24717294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: DISCLOSURE: The authors declare that there is no 
conflict of interest.


868. Nature. 2014 Apr 10;508(7495):186. doi: 10.1038/508186a.

Prizes: Growing time lag threatens Nobels.

Fortunato S(1).

Author information:
(1)Aalto University, Finland.

Comment in
    Nature. 2018 May;557(7703):31.

DOI: 10.1038/508186a
PMID: 24717507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. West J Nurs Res. 2015 Aug;37(8):1062-80. doi: 10.1177/0193945914528588. Epub
 2014 Apr 9.

A Structural Model of Health-Related Quality of Life in Parkinson's Disease 
Patients.

Lee J(1), Choi M(2), Jung D(3), Sohn YH(4), Hong J(5).

Author information:
(1)College of Nursing, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea JHL@yuhs.ac.
(2)College of Nursing, Yonsei University, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Division of Nursing Science, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Department of Neurology, College of Medicine, Yonsei University, Seoul, 
Korea.
(5)Department of Neurology, Wonju College of Medicine, Yonsei University, Wonju, 
Korea.

Disability-adjusted life expectancy is focused on more than just extending life 
span; thus, health-related quality of life (HRQOL) has emerged as an important 
issue for elderly patients with chronic disease. The number of patients with 
Parkinson's disease (PD) is predicted to grow along with the aging population, 
so it is essential to identify the predictors of HRQOL. This study utilized 
structural equation modeling (SEM) to predict the HRQOL of patients with PD. 
Participants (N = 217) were patients diagnosed with PD (M age = 66.01). 
Demographic and disease-related characteristics, sleep quality, pain, 
depression, and HRQOL were investigated via a structured questionnaire. 
Participants' functional factors were measured using physical function 
evaluations. The hypothetical model verified disease-related factors, 
depression, and pain as direct factors that significantly predicted HRQOL of 
patients with PD (Goodness of Fit Index = 0.93 and Comparative Fit Index = 
0.96). These findings are useful for developing comprehensive interventions to 
improve the HRQOL of patients with PD.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0193945914528588
PMID: 24718037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Rev Med Chil. 2013 Nov;141(11):1464-9. doi: 10.4067/S0034-98872013001100014.

[An update on diabetic foot].

[Article in Spanish]

Seguel G.

The diabetic foot is responsible for 70% of amputations in adults, entails a 
significant impact in the life of patients and it is associated with an 
excessive use of resources in our health system. The 2009-2010 National Health 
Survey indicated that in the "last year" 6.7% of subjects with diabetes 
consulted a health care professional for diabetic foot. With the permanent rise 
of worldwide and national prevalence of Diabetes Mellitus and the increased life 
expectancy in our country, the public health system needs to adapt to this new 
epidemiological situation. There are interventions, which have been tested 
abroad, that may modify substantially the natural history of diabetic foot. 
However, in our country there is little experience with them. This deficiency 
results in increased rates of amputation and possibly a deterioration of the 
quality of life of diabetic patients. The objective of this article is to 
provide an update on the knowledge about diabetic foot.

DOI: 10.4067/S0034-98872013001100014
PMID: 24718474 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. HNO. 2014 May;62(5):335-41. doi: 10.1007/s00106-014-2842-4.

[Palliative care in otolaryngology].

[Article in German]

Büntzel J(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für HNO-Erkrankungen, Kopf-Hals-Chirurgie, Interdisziplinäre 
Palliativstation, Südharz Klinikum Nordhausen gGmbH, Dr.-Robert-Koch-Straße 39, 
99734, Nordhausen, Deutschland, hno@shk-ndh.de.

The aim of palliative care is to improve the quality of life (QOL) of patients 
with a limited life expectancy in a comprehensive multidisciplinary approach. It 
encompasses consideration of medical, physical, psychosocial and spiritual 
problems, including treatment and help from a team of various professionals. 
Palliative care often extents to the patient's families and may continue after 
the death of the patient. Half of all head and neck cancer patients will die of 
their malignancy within 5 years of diagnosis. The primary medical issues 
affecting QOL at the end of life are communication problems due to laryngectomy 
or tracheostomy, disturbed eating and drinking due to surgery and radiotherapy, 
edematous changes of the face and neck with resultant functional and cosmetic 
consequences, as well as strong-smelling ulcerated wounds, which often lead to 
social isolation. General symptoms occurring at the end of life include pain, 
anxiety, different types of dyspnea and acute bleeding. All therapeutic 
approaches applied during the last phase of life must be questioned regarding 
their real efficacy and side effects. Consideration of the patient's wishes is 
of the highest priority.

DOI: 10.1007/s00106-014-2842-4
PMID: 24718562 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. JIMD Rep. 2015;15:59-66. doi: 10.1007/8904_2014_298. Epub 2014 Apr 10.

Mortality in patients with morquio syndrome a.

Lavery C(1), Hendriksz C.

Author information:
(1)Society for Mucopolysaccharide Diseases, MPS House, Repton Place, White Lion 
Road, Amersham, Buckinghamshire, HP7 9LP, UK, c.lavery@mpssociety.org.uk.

BACKGROUND: Morquio syndrome A (mucopolysaccharidosis type IVA) is an autosomal 
recessive, life-limiting lysosomal storage disease characterized by deficient 
activity of the enzyme galactosamine-6-sulfatase. The disease affects multiple 
body systems, and patients require multidisciplinary care from an early age.
METHODS: To better understand the natural progression of the disease, life 
expectancy and common causes of death, death certificates were evaluated for 27 
patients (15 male, 12 female) with Morquio syndrome A in the UK, covering the 
years 1975-2010.
RESULTS: Mean age at death (±standard deviation) was 25.30 ± 17.43 years, with 
female patients living longer than male patients (26.55 ± 12.28 years versus 
22.95 ± 17.63 years, respectively). Respiratory failure was the primary cause of 
death in nearly two-thirds of patients (63%). Other causes of death were cardiac 
failure (11%), post-traumatic organ failure (11%), complications of surgery 
(11%) and myocardial infarction (4%). Life expectancy increased gradually over 
time (R (2) = 0.0963), and mean age at death due to respiratory failure improved 
from 17.42 ± 9.54 years in the 1980s to 30.74 ± 10.84 years in the 2000s.
CONCLUSIONS: The current data suggest that survival of patients with Morquio 
syndrome A in the UK has improved in recent decades. It is possible that 
improvements in multidisciplinary care and referral of patients to specialist 
centres underlie this trend. It is hoped that novel disease-specific treatments 
such as enzyme replacement therapy and haematopoietic stem cell therapy will 
help to extend the lifespan of patients with Morquio syndrome further still.

DOI: 10.1007/8904_2014_298
PMCID: PMC4270860
PMID: 24718838


873. Adv Ther. 2014 Apr;31(4):392-409. doi: 10.1007/s12325-014-0115-y. Epub 2014
Apr  10.

Cost-effectiveness of pneumococcal vaccines for adults in the United States.

Chen J(1), O'Brien MA, Yang HK, Grabenstein JD, Dasbach EJ.

Author information:
(1)Merck Sharp & Dohme R&D, Beijing, China.

INTRODUCTION: In 2012, the Advisory Committee on Immunization Practices (ACIP) 
revised recommendations for adult pneumococcal vaccination to include a 
sequential regimen of 13-valent pneumococcal conjugate vaccine (PCV13) followed 
by 23-valent pneumococcal polysaccharide vaccine (PPSV23) for certain high-risk 
adults with immunocompromising conditions. This study, from a payer perspective, 
examined: (1) the cost-effectiveness of the new 2012 ACIP vaccine policy 
recommendation relative to the 1997 ACIP recommendation; (2) the 
cost-effectiveness of potential future pneumococcal vaccination policies; and 
(3) key assumptions that influence study results.
METHODS: A static cohort model that incorporated costs, health outcomes, and 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) losses associated with invasive pneumococcal 
disease and non-bacteremic pneumococcal pneumonia (NBPP) was developed to 
evaluate seven pneumococcal vaccination strategies for a 50-year-old adult 
cohort over a 50-year period using incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs).
RESULTS: For objective 1, the 2012 ACIP recommendation is the more economically 
efficient strategy (ICER was $25,841 per QALY gained vs. no vaccination). For 
objective 2, the most efficient vaccination policy would be to maintain the 2012 
recommendation for PPSV23 for healthy and immunocompetent adults with 
comorbidities, and to modify the recommendation for adults with 
immunocompromising conditions by replacing PPSV23 with a sequential regimen of 
PCV13 and PPSV23 at age 65 (ICER was $23,416 per QALY gained vs. no 
vaccination). For objective 3, cost-effectiveness ratios for alternative 
pneumococcal vaccine policies were highly influenced by assumptions used for 
vaccine effectiveness against NBPP and accounting for the herd protection 
effects of pediatric PCV13 vaccination on adult pneumococcal disease.
CONCLUSION: Modifying the 2012 recommendation to include an additional dose of 
PCV13 at age 65, followed by PPSV23, for adults with immunocompromising 
conditions appears to be a cost-effective vaccine policy. Given the uncertainty 
in the available data and the absence of key influential data, comprehensive 
sensitivity analyses should be conducted by policy-makers when evaluating new 
adult pneumococcal vaccine strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-014-0115-y
PMCID: PMC4003344
PMID: 24718851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Skinmed. 2014 Jan-Feb;12(1):54-6.

Palliative effect of capecitabine and cetuximab for refractory metastatic 
squamous cell carcinoma of the perineum in epidermodysplasia verruciformis.

Lynch MC, Drabick JJ, Neves RI, Fox EJ, Mackley HB, Anderson BE.

A teenage girl presented with multiple warty skin lesions and had a diagnosis of 
epidermodysplasia verruciformis made several years later. Later in life she 
presented with an extensive SCC in situ in her gluteal crease that was 
surgically resected with wide margins. Despite this treatment, the lesion 
recurred with extension onto her lower back. Biopsies at the time confirmed SCC 
in situ of the perianal tissue and invasive SCC above her gluteal cleft.

PMID: 24720087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Instr Course Lect. 2014;63:431-41.

Contemporary management of metastatic bone disease: tips and tools of the trade 
for general practitioners.

Quinn RH(1), Randall RL, Benevenia J, Berven SH, Raskin KA.

Author information:
(1)Professor and Chair, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of Texas 
Health Science Center, San Antonio, Texas.

Metastatic bone disease has a significant effect on a patient's mortality and 
