culture-negative prosthetic joint arthritis, including testing for C. burnetii 
in endemic areas.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjmed.2014.03.013
PMID: 24662624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Vaccine. 2014 May 7;32(22):2645-56. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.02.071. Epub
 2014 Mar 22.

Cost-effectiveness and equity impacts of three HPV vaccination programmes for 
school-aged girls in New Zealand.

Blakely T(1), Kvizhinadze G(2), Karvonen T(3), Pearson AL(2), Smith M(4), Wilson 
N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington, New Zealand. 
Electronic address: tony.blakely@otago.ac.nz.
(2)Department of Public Health, University of Otago, Wellington, New Zealand.
(3)MSc Programme in Health Economics, University of York, United Kingdom.
(4)Prince of Wales Clinical School, University of New South Wales, Sydney, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: As with many high-income countries, vaccination coverage against 
human papilloma virus (HPV) infection is not high in New Zealand (NZ) at 47% in 
school-aged girls for three doses. We estimate the health gains, net-cost and 
cost-effectiveness of the currently implemented HPV national vaccination 
programme of vaccination dispersed across schools and primary care, and two 
alternatives: school-based only (assumed coverage as per Australia: 73%), and 
mandatory school-based vaccination but with opt-out permitted (coverage 93%). We 
also generate estimates by social group (sex, ethnic and deprivation group).
METHODS: A Markov macro-simulation model was developed for 12-year-old girls and 
boys in 2011, with future health states of: cervical cancer, pre-cancer (CIN 
I-III), genital warts, and three other HPV-related cancers (oropharyngeal, anal, 
vulvar cancer). In each state health sector costs, including additional health 
sector costs from extra life, and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were 
accumulated.
RESULTS: The current HPV vaccination programme has an estimated 
cost-effectiveness of NZ$18,800/QALY gained (about US$9700/QALY gained using the 
OECD's purchasing power parities; 95% UI: US$6900 to $33,700) compared to the 
status quo in NZ prior to 2008 (no vaccination, screening alone). The 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of an intensive school-based only 
programme of girls, compared to the current situation, was US$33,000/QALY 
gained. Mandatory vaccination appeared least cost-effective (ICER compared to 
school-based of US$117,000/QALY gained, but with wide 95% uncertainty limits 
from $56,000 to $220,000). All interventions generated more QALYs per 
12-year-old for Māori (indigenous population) and people living in deprived 
areas (range 5-25% greater QALYs gained).
INTERPRETATION: A more intensive school-only vaccination programme seems 
warranted. Reductions in vaccine price will greatly improve cost-effectiveness 
of all options, possibly making a law for mandatory vaccination optimal from a 
health sector perspective. All interventions could reduce ethnic and 
socioeconomic disparities in HPV-related disease.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.02.071
PMID: 24662710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 24;9(3):e90203. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090203. 
eCollection 2014.

Toxoplasmosis--a global threat. Correlation of latent toxoplasmosis with 
specific disease burden in a set of 88 countries.

Flegr J(1), Prandota J(2), Sovičková M(1), Israili ZH(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Faculty of Science, Charles University in Prague, 
Prague, Czech Republic.
(2)Department of Social Pediatrics, Faculty of Health Sciences, Wroclaw Medical 
University, Wroclaw, Poland.
(3)Department of Medicine, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
Georgia, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Toxoplasmosis is becoming a global health hazard as it infects 
30-50% of the world human population. Clinically, the life-long presence of the 
parasite in tissues of a majority of infected individuals is usually considered 
asymptomatic. However, a number of studies show that this 'asymptomatic 
infection' may also lead to development of other human pathologies.
AIMS OF THE STUDY: The purpose of the study was to collect available 
geoepidemiological data on seroprevalence of toxoplasmosis and search for its 
relationship with mortality and disability rates in different countries.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Prevalence data published between 1995-2008 for women in 
child-bearing age were collected for 88 countries (29 European). The association 
between prevalence of toxoplasmosis and specific disease burden estimated with 
age-standardized Disability Adjusted Life Year (DALY) or with mortality, was 
calculated using General Linear Method with Gross Domestic Product per capita 
(GDP), geolatitude and humidity as covariates, and also using nonparametric 
partial Kendall correlation test with GDP as a covariate. The prevalence of 
toxoplasmosis correlated with specific disease burden in particular countries 
explaining 23% of variability in disease burden in Europe. The analyses revealed 
that for example, DALY of 23 of 128 analyzed diseases and disease categories on 
the WHO list showed correlations (18 positive, 5 negative) with prevalence of 
toxoplasmosis and another 12 diseases showed positive trends (p<0.1). For 
several obtained significant correlations between the seroprevalence of 
toxoplasmosis and specific diseases/clinical entities, possible 
pathophysiological, biochemical and molecular explanations are presented.
CONCLUSIONS: The seroprevalence of toxoplasmosis correlated with various disease 
burden. Statistical associations does not necessarily mean causality. The 
precautionary principle suggests however that possible role of toxoplasmosis as 
a triggering factor responsible for development of several clinical entities 
deserves much more attention and financial support both in everyday medical 
practice and future clinical research.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090203
PMCID: PMC3963851
PMID: 24662942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


711. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 24;9(3):e92842. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092842. 
eCollection 2014.

Excess burden of depression among HIV-infected persons receiving medical care in 
the united states: data from the medical monitoring project and the behavioral 
risk factor surveillance system.

Do AN(1), Rosenberg ES(2), Sullivan PS(2), Beer L(1), Strine TW(3), Schulden 
JD(4), Fagan JL(1), Freedman MS(1), Skarbinski J(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America.
(2)Emory University Rollins School of Public Health, Atlanta, Georgia, United 
States of America.
(3)Office of Public Health Preparedness and Response, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Atlanta, Georgia, United States of America.
(4)National Institute on Drug Abuse, Rockville, Maryland, United States of 
America.

BACKGROUND: With increased life expectancy for HIV-infected persons, there is 
concern regarding comorbid depression because of its common occurrence and 
association with behaviors that may facilitate HIV transmission. Our objectives 
were to estimate the prevalence of current depression among HIV-infected persons 
receiving care and assess the burden of major depression, relative to that in 
the general population.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We used data from the Medical Monitoring Project (MMP) and 
the Behavioral Risk Factors Surveillance System (BRFSS). The eight-item Patient 
Health Questionnaire was used to identify depression. To assess the burden of 
major depression among HIV-infected persons receiving care, we compared the 
prevalence of current major depression between the MMP and BRFSS populations 
using stratified analyses that simultaneously controlled for gender and, in 
turn, each of the potentially confounding demographic factors of age, 
race/ethnicity, education, and income. Each unadjusted comparison was summarized 
as a prevalence ratio (PR), and each of the adjusted comparisons was summarized 
as a standardized prevalence ratio (SPR). Among HIV-infected persons receiving 
care, the prevalence of a current episode of major depression and other 
depression, respectively, was 12.4% (95% CI: 11.2, 13.7) and 13.2% (95% CI: 
12.0%, 14.4%). Overall, the PR comparing the prevalence of current major 
depression between HIV-infected persons receiving care and the general 
population was 3.1. When controlling for gender and each of the factors age, 
race/ethnicity, and education, the SPR (3.3, 3.0, and 2.9, respectively) was 
similar to the PR. However, when controlling for gender and annual household 
income, the SPR decreased to 1.5.
CONCLUSIONS: Depression remains a common comorbidity among HIV-infected persons. 
The overall excess burden among HIV-infected persons receiving care is about 
three-times that among the general population and is associated with differences 
in annual household income between the two populations. Relevant efforts are 
needed to reduce this burden.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0092842
PMCID: PMC3963963
PMID: 24663122 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


712. Orthopade. 2014 Apr;43(4):353-64. doi: 10.1007/s00132-013-2167-0.

[Endoprosthetic treatment of osteoporosis-related coxarthrosis : aspects of safe 
patient treatment].

[Article in German]

Kirschner S(1), Hartmann A, Günther KP, Hamann C.

Author information:
(1)UniversitätsCentrum für Orthopädie und Unfallchirurgie, Universitätsklinikum 
Carl-Gustav Carus, Technische Universität Dresden AöR, Fetscherstr. 74, 01307, 
Dresden, Deutschland, Stephan.Kirschner@uniklinikum-dresden.de.

BACKGROUND: With increasing life expectancy the prevalence of osteoarthritis is 
also substantially rising. Patients aged between 65 and 75 years scheduled for 
total joint arthroplasty suffer from undetected osteoporosis in 20-25% of cases.
OBJECTIVES: How to determine osteoporosis during preoperative workup? Which 
conclusions can be drawn for the operation treatment and the postoperative 
course?
METHODS: The literature dealing with the prevalence of osteoporosis, 
perioperative complications of total hip arthroplasty, selected register 
informations, guidelines for diagnostics and treatment of osteoporosis and for 
the postoperative treatment are summarized and discussed.
RESULTS: The fracture risk is determined according to the guidelines of the 
Dachverband Osteologie (DVO, Governing Body on Osteology). The implant and the 
anchorage are selected based on the risk of suffering from osteoporosis. An 
intraoperative fracture and early aseptic loosening are the main operative risk 
factors. For the postoperative course in addition to education about 
arthroplasty, adequate support for prevention of falls is mandatory. Continuous 
physiotherapy with muscular strengthening is advisable. The long-term medication 
should be checked for risks in the PRISCUS list of potentially inappropriate 
medication in the elderly and non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drugs (NSAIDs) 
should not be prescribed in patients with cardiac comorbidities. Patients with 
confirmed osteoporosis should be treated with antiresorptive agents.

DOI: 10.1007/s00132-013-2167-0
PMID: 24664134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


713. Br J Surg. 2014 May;101(6):623-31. doi: 10.1002/bjs.9464. Epub 2014 Mar 24.

Long-term cost-effectiveness analysis of endovascular versus open repair for 
abdominal aortic aneurysm based on four randomized clinical trials.

Epstein D(1), Sculpher MJ, Powell JT, Thompson SG, Brown LC, Greenhalgh RM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Economics, University of Granada, Granada, Spain.

Comment in
    Br J Surg. 2014 May;101(6):632.

BACKGROUND: A number of published economic evaluations of elective endovascular 
aneurysm repair (EVAR) versus open repair for abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) 
have come to differing conclusions about whether EVAR is cost-effective. This 
paper reviews the current evidence base and presents up-to-date 
cost-effectiveness analyses in the light of results of four randomized clinical 
trials: EVAR-1, DREAM, OVER and ACE.
METHODS: Markov models were used to estimate lifetime costs from a UK 
perspective and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) based on the results of each 
of the four trials. The outcomes included in the model were: procedure costs, 
surveillance costs, reintervention costs, health-related quality of life, 
aneurysm-related mortality and other-cause mortality. Alternative scenarios 
about complications, reinterventions and deaths beyond the trial were explored.
RESULTS: Models based on the results of the EVAR-1, DREAM or ACE trials did not 
find EVAR to be cost-effective at thresholds used in the UK (up to £30,000 per 
QALY). EVAR seemed cost-effective according to models based on the OVER trial. 
These results seemed robust to alternative model scenarios about events beyond 
the trial intervals.
CONCLUSION: These analyses did not find that EVAR is cost-effective compared 
with open repair in the long term in trials conducted in European centres. EVAR 
did appear to be cost-effective based on the OVER trial, conducted in the USA. 
Caution must be exercised when transferring the results of economic evaluations 
from one country to another.

© 2014 BJS Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.9464
PMID: 24664537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Ann Rheum Dis. 2014 Jun;73(6):968-74. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204428.
Epub  2014 Mar 24.

The global burden of low back pain: estimates from the Global Burden of Disease 
2010 study.

Hoy D(1), March L, Brooks P, Blyth F, Woolf A, Bain C, Williams G, Smith E, Vos 
T, Barendregt J, Murray C, Burstein R, Buchbinder R.

Author information:
(1)University of Queensland, School of Population Health, , Herston, Queensland, 
Australia.

Comment in
    Ann Rheum Dis. 2014 Aug;73(8):e48.
    Ann Rheum Dis. 2014 Aug;73(8):e49.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the global burden of low back pain (LBP).
METHODS: LBP was defined as pain in the area on the posterior aspect of the body 
from the lower margin of the twelfth ribs to the lower glutaeal folds with or 
without pain referred into one or both lower limbs that lasts for at least one 
day. Systematic reviews were performed of the prevalence, incidence, remission, 
duration, and mortality risk of LBP. Four levels of severity were identified for 
LBP with and without leg pain, each with their own disability weights. The 
disability weights were applied to prevalence values to derive the overall 
disability of LBP expressed as years lived with disability (YLDs). As there is 
no mortality from LBP, YLDs are the same as disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs).
RESULTS: Out of all 291 conditions studied in the Global Burden of Disease 2010 
Study, LBP ranked highest in terms of disability (YLDs), and sixth in terms of 
overall burden (DALYs). The global point prevalence of LBP was 9.4% (95% CI 9.0 
to 9.8). DALYs increased from 58.2 million (M) (95% CI 39.9M to 78.1M) in 1990 
to 83.0M (95% CI 56.6M to 111.9M) in 2010. Prevalence and burden increased with 
age.
CONCLUSIONS: LBP causes more global disability than any other condition. With 
the ageing population, there is an urgent need for further research to better 
understand LBP across different settings.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204428
PMID: 24665116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Ann Rheum Dis. 2014 Jun;73(6):975-81. doi: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204631.
Epub  2014 Mar 24.

The global burden of occupationally related low back pain: estimates from the 
Global Burden of Disease 2010 study.

Driscoll T(1), Jacklyn G, Orchard J, Passmore E, Vos T, Freedman G, Lim S, 
Punnett L.

Author information:
(1)Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, , Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: The study was part of the Global Burden of Disease 2010 study and 
aimed to quantify the burden arising from low back pain (LBP) due to 
occupational exposure to ergonomic risk factors.
METHODS: Exposure prevalence was based on occupation distribution; estimates of 
relative risk came from a meta-analysis of relevant published literature. The 
work-related burden was estimated as disability-adjusted life years (DALYs). 
Estimates were made for each of 21 world regions and 187 countries, separately 
for 1990 and 2010 using consistent methods.
RESULTS: Worldwide, LBP arising from ergonomic exposures at work was estimated 
to cause 21.7 million DALYs in 2010. The overall population attributable 
fraction was 26%, varying considerably with age, sex and region. 62% of LBP 
DALYs were in males-the largest numbers were in persons aged 35-55 years. The 
highest relative risk (3.7) was in the agricultural sector. The largest number 
of DALYs occurred in East Asia and South Asia, but on a per capita basis the 
biggest burden was in Oceania. There was a 22% increase in overall LBP DALYs 
arising from occupational exposures between 1990 and 2010 due to population 
growth; rates dropped by 14% over the same period.
CONCLUSIONS: LBP arising from ergonomic exposures at work is an important cause 
of disability. There is a need for improved information on exposure 
distributions and relative risks, particularly in developing countries.

DOI: 10.1136/annrheumdis-2013-204631
PMID: 24665117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Feb;107(1):223-9. doi: 10.1603/ec13436.

Accumulation and excretion of cadmium in three successive generations of 
Spodoptera exigua (Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) and impact on the population 
increase.

Su HH, Hu MM, Harvey-Samuel T, Yang YZ.

Nowadays, heavy metal pollution has become more and more serious. Cadmium is one 
of the heavy metals that have caused serious pollution. Spodoptera exigua Hübner 
(Lepidoptera: Noctuidae), one of important agricultural pests, has broken out 
more frequently in recent years. In this study, accumulation at different 
developmental stages and excretion of Cd were detected, and effect of cadmium 
(Cd concentrations were 0.2, 0.8, 3.2, 12.8, and 51.2 mg/kg, respectively) on 
three successive generations of beet armyworm was also studied using life table 
in the laboratory. Results showed that Cd2+ contents were significantly 
different when S. exigua was reared under different Cd2+ concentrations in the 
same generation in a significant dose-dependent manner. The concentration of 
Cd2+ increased with extension of stress time. Cd2+ concentration at different 
developmental stages was different, that is, larvae > pupa > adult. After 
emergence, Cd2+ concentration in both females and males decreased gradually, but 
that in paired adults decreased to a greater extent than that in unpaired ones. 
Beet armyworm could excrete heavy metals by means of faeces, prepupa exuviate, 
and puparium. Life table of the laboratory population was constructed, which 
showed that low doses of cadmium promoted the increase of population, whereas 
high doses inhibited the increase, meanwhile, with the extension of exposure 
length, the index of population trend (I) declined more rapidly. The study might 
provide references for the long-term and objective assessment of heavy metal 
pollution and its effect on the populations of important agricultural pests.

DOI: 10.1603/ec13436
PMID: 24665705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Feb;107(1):432-9. doi: 10.1603/ec13222.

Inference on arthropod demographic parameters: computational advances using R.

Maia Ade H, Pazianotto RA, Luiz AJ, Marinho-Prado JS, Pervez A.

We developed a computer program for life table analysis using the open source, 
free software programming environment R. It is useful to quantify chronic 
nonlethal effects of treatments on arthropod populations by summarizing 
information on their survival and fertility in key population parameters 
referred to as fertility life table parameters. Statistical inference on 
fertility life table parameters is not trivial because it requires the use of 
computationally intensive methods for variance estimation. Our codes present 
some advantages with respect to a previous program developed in Statistical 
Analysis System. Additional multiple comparison tests were incorporated for the 
analysis of qualitative factors; a module for regression analysis was 
implemented, thus, allowing analysis of quantitative factors such as temperature 
or agrochemical doses; availability is granted for users, once it was developed 
using an open source, free software programming environment. To illustrate the 
descriptive and inferential analysis implemented in lifetable.R, we present and 
discuss two examples: 1) a study quantifying the influence of the proteinase 
inhibitor berenil on the eucalyptus defoliator Thyrinteina arnobia (Stoll) and 
2) a study investigating the influence of temperature on demographic parameters 
of a predaceous ladybird, Hippodamia variegata (Goeze).

DOI: 10.1603/ec13222
PMID: 24665730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Med Gas Res. 2014 Mar 25;4(1):6. doi: 10.1186/2045-9912-4-6.

Cognitive dysfunction following desflurane versus sevoflurane general anesthesia 
in elderly patients: a randomized controlled trial.

Meineke M, Applegate RL 2nd(1), Rasmussen T, Anderson D, Azer S, Mehdizadeh A, 
Kim A, Allard M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Loma Linda University School of Medicine, Room 
2532 LLUMC, 11234 Anderson Street, Loma Linda, CA 92354, USA. 
rapplegate@llu.edu.

As life expectancy increases, more patients ≥65 years undergo general 
anesthesia. Anesthetic agents may contribute to postoperative cognitive 
dysfunction, and incidence may differ with anesthetic agents or intraoperative 
anesthesia depth. Responses to anesthetic adjuvants vary among elderly patients. 
Processed electroencephalography guidance of anesthetic may better ensure 
equivalent cerebral suppression. This study investigates postoperative cognitive 
dysfunction differences in elderly patients given desflurane or sevoflurane 
using processed electroencephalography guidance.IRB approved, randomized trial 
enrolled consenting patients ≥65 years scheduled for elective surgery requiring 
general anesthesia ≥120 minute duration. After written informed consent, 
patients were randomly assigned to sevoflurane or desflurane. No perioperative 
benzodiazepines were administered. Cognitive impairment was measured by an 
investigator blinded to group assignment using mini-Mental Status Examination 
(MMSE) at baseline; 1, 6, and 24 hours after the end of anesthesia. Mean 
arterial pressure was maintained within 20% of baseline. Anesthetic dose was 
adjusted to maintain moderate general anesthesia per processed 
electroencephalograpy (Patient State Index 25 to 50). The primary outcome 
measure was intergroup difference in MMSE change 1 hour after anesthesia 
(median; 95% confidence interval).110 patients consented; 26 were not included 
for analysis (no general anesthesia; withdrew consent; baseline MMSE 
abnormality; inability to perform postoperative MMSE; data capture failure); 47 
sevoflurane and 37 desflurane were analyzed. There were no significant 
differences in patient characteristics; intraoperative mean blood pressure 
(desflurane 86.4; 81.3 to 89.6 versus sevoflurane 82.5; 80.2 to 86.1 mmHg; 
p = 0.42) or Patient State Index (desflurane 41.9; 39.0 to 44.0 versus 
sevoflurane 41.0; 37.5 to 44.0; p = 0.60) despite a lower MAC fraction in 
desflurane (0.82; 0.77 to 0.86) versus sevoflurane (0.96; 0.91 to 1.03; 
p < 0.001). MMSE decreased 1 hour after anesthesia (p < 0.001). The decrease at 
one hour was larger in sevoflurane (-2.5; -3.3 to -1.8) than desflurane (-1.3; 
-2.2 to -0.5; p = 0.03). MMSE returned to baseline by 6 hours after anesthesia.
CONCLUSIONS: For elderly patients in whom depth of anesthesia is maintained in 
the moderate range, both desflurane and sevoflurane are associated with 
transient decreases in cognitive function as measured by MMSE after anesthesia, 
with clinically insignificant differences between them in this setting.
TRIAL REGISTRY: ClinicalTrials.gov NCT01199913.

DOI: 10.1186/2045-9912-4-6
PMCID: PMC3976084
PMID: 24666542


719. BMC Public Health. 2014 Mar 25;14:280. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-280.

A community based prevention of weight gain intervention (Mothers In Motion) 
among young low-income overweight and obese mothers: design and rationale.

Chang MW(1), Nitzke S, Brown R, Resnicow K.

Author information:
(1)Michigan State University, College of Nursing, 1355 Bogue Street, RM C346, 
East Lansing, MI 48824, USA. changme@msu.edu.

BACKGROUND: Over 45% of American women 20-39 years old are at risk for type 2 
diabetes, cardiovascular disease, and other health conditions because they are 
overweight or obese. The prevalence of overweight and obesity is 
disproportionately high among low-income women. This paper describes the study 
design and rationale of a community based intervention (Mothers In Motion, MIM) 
aimed to prevent weight gain among low-income overweight and obese mothers 18-39 
years old by promoting stress management, healthy eating, and physical activity.
METHODS/DESIGN: Peer recruiters approach participants from 5 Special 
Supplemental Nutrition Program for Women, Infants, and Children (WIC) in 
Michigan. The MIM delivers theory-based, culturally-sensitive intervention 
messages via a combination of DVDs and peer support group teleconferences 
(PSGTs). The DVD features African American and white overweight and obese WIC 
mothers who participated in a healthy lifestyle intervention patterned after 
MIM. The PSGTs are led by paraprofessionals from Michigan State University 
Extension and WIC providers in Michigan who are trained in motivational 
interviewing and group facilitation skills. Participants are randomly assigned 
to an intervention (n=350) or comparison group (n=175). The intervention group 
receives a 16-week intervention on a weekly or bi-weekly basis. Participants are 
asked to watch 10 MIM DVD chapters at home and join 10 PSGT sessions by phone. 
The comparison group receives printed educational materials. The primary outcome 
is body weight. Secondary outcomes include dietary fat, fruit, and vegetable 
intake; physical activity; stress, and affect. Mediators are self-efficacy, 
emotional coping response, social support, and autonomous motivation. Telephone 
interviews and in-person data collection at WIC offices occur at 3 time points: 
baseline, immediately, and 3 months after the 16-week intervention.
DISCUSSION: If MIM shows effectiveness, it could have a favorable impact on 
public health and community programs. The DVDs and PSGTs will be disseminated in 
WIC, Extension, clinical practice that promote healthy lifestyles for similar 
target audiences to make a broad contribution to the prevention of weight gain 
in low-income mothers. Also, our methodology can be adapted by researchers and 
community stakeholders to help other low-income populations prevent weight gain.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Clinical Trials Number: NCT01839708.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-280
PMCID: PMC3987655
PMID: 24666633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. Int J Clin Pract. 2014 Jul;68(7):890-9. doi: 10.1111/ijcp.12395. Epub 2014
Mar  25.

Brain metastasis from gastrointestinal cancers: a systematic review.

Esmaeilzadeh M(1), Majlesara A, Faridar A, Hafezi M, Hong B, Esmaeilnia-Shirvani 
H, Neyazi B, Mehrabi A, Nakamura M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Hannover Medical School, Hannover, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Brain metastases (BM) from the gastrointestinal tract (GIT) cancers 
are relatively rare. Despite those advances in diagnostic and treatment options, 
life expectancy and quality of life in these patients are still poor. In this 
review, we present an overview of the studies which have been previously 
performed as well as a comprehensive strategy for the assessment and treatment 
of BM from the GIT cancers.
METHOD: To obtain information on brain metastases from GIT, we performed a 
systematic review of Medline, EMBASE and the Cochrane Central Register of 
Controlled Trials (CENTRAL). The collected data included patient 
characteristics, primary tumor data and brain metastases data.
RESULT: In our search of the literature, we found 74 studies between 1980 and 
2011, which included 2538 patients with brain metastases originated from 
gastrointestinal cancer. Analysis of available data showed that among 2538 
patients who had brain metastases from GIT, a total of 116 patients (4.57%) had 
esophageal cancer, 148 patients (5.83%) had gastric cancer, 233 patients (9.18%) 
had liver cancer, 13 patients had pancreas cancer (0.52%) and 2028 patients 
(79.90%) had colorectal cancer. The total median age of the patients was 58.9 
years.
CONCLUSION: Brain metastases have been considered the most common structural 
neurological complication of systemic cancer. Due to poor prognosis they 
influence the survival rate as well as the quality of life of the patients. The 
treatment of cerebral metastasis depends on the patients' situation and the 
decisions of the treating physicians. The early awareness of a probable 
metastasis from GI to the brain will have a great influence on treatment 
outcomes as well as the survival rate and the quality-of-life of the patients.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijcp.12395
PMID: 24666726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2014 Oct;14(4):858-63. doi: 10.1111/ggi.12181. Epub
2013  Nov 8.

Outcomes of surgical versus endovascular repair of unruptured brain aneurysms in 
individuals aged ≥ 75 years.

Inamasu J(1), Tanaka T, Sadato A, Hayakawa M, Adachi K, Hayashi T, Kato Y, 
Hirose Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Fujita Health University Hospital, Toyoake, 
Japan.

AIM: Therapeutic intervention to repair unruptured aneurysms (UA) has not been 
strongly recommended for the elderly, because of their limited life expectancy 
and low annual bleeding rate. However, physically and mentally healthy older 
adults with seemingly high risk of aneurysmal bleeding might benefit from having 
their UA repaired.
METHODS: A single-center retrospective study was carried out. Among 1078 
patients admitted for treatment of UA between 2007 and 2011, the number of 
patients aged ≥ 75 years who underwent surgical and endovascular repair of UA 
was 30 and 31, respectively. The operative and mid-term outcomes were compared 
between the two groups. For evaluation of the operative outcomes, frequency and 
types of adverse events that occurred within 30 days of intervention (operative 
morbidity) were described. For assessment of the mid-term outcomes, activities 
of daily living (ADL) at 24 months after intervention were evaluated with the 
modified Rankin Scale (mRS).
RESULTS: The operative morbidity rate was 6.7% in the open surgery group and 
6.5% in the endovascular surgery group, and they did not differ significantly. 
The frequency of patients with mRS 0-2 at 24 months after intervention was 85.7% 
in the open surgery group and 82.8% in the endovascular surgery group, and they 
did not differ significantly. The adverse event rate of patients with middle 
cerebral artery aneurysms treated endovascularly was high (80%).
CONCLUSIONS: The outcomes of individuals aged ≥ 75 years who underwent repair of 
UA were generally favorable in either treatment group, with more than 80% living 
an independent life at 24 months after intervention.

© 2013 Japan Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/ggi.12181
PMID: 24666763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Cancer Control. 2014 Apr;21(2):140-3. doi: 10.1177/107327481402100206.

Palliative strategies for the management of primary and metastatic spinal 
tumors.

Kaloostian PE(1), Yurter A, Etame AB, Vrionis FD, Sciubba DM, Gokaslan ZL.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD 21287, USA. zgokasl1@ jhmi.edu.

BACKGROUND: Technological advances during the last few decades have improved the 
success rate of surgery for the treatment of malignant spinal tumors. 
Nonetheless, many patients present with widespread tumor burden and minimal life 
expectancy, which excludes them from being surgical candidates. For these 
patients, palliative management is recommended.
METHODS: The authors reviewed prospective and retrospective clinical studies as 
well as case series regarding palliative treatments for primary and metastatic 
spinal tumors.
RESULTS: Analgesics, ranging from nonopioids to strong opioids, may be used 
depending on the degree of pain. Steroids may also improve pain relief, although 
they are associated with a number of adverse events. Vertebroplasty and 
kyphoplasty are conservative treatments with high rates of pain relief and 
vertebral body stabilization. Radiotherapy is the gold standard for palliative 
management, with approximately 60% of patients experiencing a decrease in 
tumor-related spinal pain and up to 35% experiencing complete relief. 
Stereotactic radiosurgery delivers high doses of radiation to patients to 
provide pain relief while also sparing delicate anatomical structures.
CONCLUSION: Palliative management of spinal tumors is diverse. Analgesics may be 
used in conjunction with radiotherapy and/or kyphoplasty or vertebroplasty to 
offer pain relief.

DOI: 10.1177/107327481402100206
PMID: 24667400 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


723. Diabetes Care. 2014 Jun;37(6):1604-12. doi: 10.2337/dc13-2533. Epub 2014 Mar
25.

The association between patient-reported self-management behavior, intermediate 
clinical outcomes, and mortality in patients with type 2 diabetes: results from 
the KORA-A study.

Laxy M(1), Mielck A(2), Hunger M(2), Schunk M(2), Meisinger C(3), Rückert IM(3), 
Rathmann W(4), Holle R(5).

Author information:
(1)Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health, 
Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Neuherberg, 
GermanyGerman Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), Germany 
michael.laxy@helmholtz-muenchen.de.
(2)Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health, 
Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Neuherberg, Germany.
(3)Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health, 
Institute of Epidemiology II, Neuherberg, Germany.
(4)German Diabetes Center, Leibniz Center for Diabetes Research at Heinrich 
Heine University, Institute of Biometrics and Epidemiology, Düsseldorf, Germany.
(5)Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health, 
Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management, Neuherberg, 
GermanyGerman Center for Diabetes Research (DZD), Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Little is known about the impact of diabetes self-management behavior 
(SMB) on long-term outcomes. We aimed to examine the association among 
patient-reported SMB, intermediate clinical outcomes, and mortality in patients 
with type 2 diabetes.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Data were collected from 340 patients with type 2 
diabetes of the KORA-A study (1997/1998) who were recruited from two previous 
population-based surveys (n = 161) and a myocardial infarction registry (n = 
179) in southern Germany. Based on previous methodological work, a high level of 
SMB was defined as being compliant with at least four of six different self-care 
dimensions, comprising physical exercise, foot care, blood glucose 
self-monitoring, weight monitoring, having a diet plan, and keeping a diabetes 
diary. The vital status of the participants was observed until 2009. 
Multivariable linear, logistic, and Cox regression models were applied to assess 
the association with intermediate clinical outcomes at baseline and to predict 
mortality over the follow-up period, adjusted for sociodemographic, behavioral, 
and disease-related factors.
RESULTS: In the cross-sectional perspective, a high level of SMB was weakly 
associated with a lower glycated hemoglobin A1c level (-0.44% [-4.8 mmol/mol] 
[95% CI -0.88 to 0.00]), but not with low-density lipoprotein cholesterol, 
systolic blood pressure, or the presence of microalbuminuria, peripheral 
arterial disease, or polyneuropathy. During a mean follow-up time of 11.6 years, 
189 patients died. SMB was a preventive factor for all-cause (hazard ratio 0.61 
[95% CI 0.40-0.91]) and cardiovascular mortality (0.65 [95% CI 0.41-1.03]).
CONCLUSIONS: Although measuring SMB is difficult and the used operationalization 
might be limited, our results give some indication that a high level of SMB is 
associated with prolonged life expectancy in patients with type 2 diabetes and 
highlight the potential impact of the patients' active contribution on the 
long-term trajectory of the disease. We assume that the used proxy for SMB is 
associated with unmeasured, but important, dimensions of health behavior.

© 2014 by the American Diabetes Association.

DOI: 10.2337/dc13-2533
PMID: 24667462 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Eur J Epidemiol. 2014 Apr;29(4):243-52. doi: 10.1007/s10654-014-9893-4. Epub
 2014 Mar 26.

Sex differences in health and mortality in Moscow and Denmark.

Oksuzyan A(1), Shkolnikova M, Vaupel JW, Christensen K, Shkolnikov VM.

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Odense Center on the Biodemography of Aging, Winsloews Vej 9B, 
5000, Odense, Denmark, aoksuzyan@health.sdu.dk.

In high income countries females outlive men, although they generally report 
worse health, the so-called male-female health-survival paradox. Russia has one 
of the world's largest sex difference in life expectancy with a male 
disadvantage of more than 10 years. We compare components of the paradox between 
Denmark and Moscow by examining sex differences in mortality and several health 
measures. The Human Mortality Database and the Russian Fertility and Mortality 
Database were used to examine sex differences in all-cause death rates in 
Denmark, Russia, and Moscow in 2007-2008. Self-reported health data were 
obtained from the Study of Middle-Aged Danish Twins (n = 4,314), the 
Longitudinal Study of Aging Danish Twins (n = 4,731), and the study of Stress, 
Aging, and Health in Russia (n = 1,800). In both Moscow and Denmark there was a 
consistent female advantage at ages 55-89 years in survival and a male advantage 
in self-rated health, physical functioning, and depression symptomatology. Only 
on cognitive tests males performed similarly to or worse than women. 
Nevertheless, Muscovite males had more than twice higher mortality at ages 55-69 
years compared to Muscovite women, almost double the ratio in Denmark. The 
present study showed that despite similar directions of sex differences in 
health and mortality in Moscow and Denmark, the male-female health-survival 
paradox is very pronounced in Moscow suggesting a stronger sex-specific 
disconnect between health indicators and mortality among middle-aged and 
young-old Muscovites.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-014-9893-4
PMCID: PMC4090601
PMID: 24668060 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest The authors declare that 
they have no conflict of interest.


725. Stroke. 2014 May;45(5):1523-30. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.114.004519. Epub 2014
Mar  25.

Multidisciplinary consensus on assessment of unruptured intracranial aneurysms: 
proposal of an international research group.

Etminan N(1), Beseoglu K, Barrow DL, Bederson J, Brown RD Jr, Connolly ES Jr, 
Derdeyn CP, Hänggi D, Hasan D, Juvela S, Kasuya H, Kirkpatrick PJ, Knuckey N, 
Koivisto T, Lanzino G, Lawton MT, LeRoux P, McDougall CG, Mee E, Mocco J, 
Molyneux A, Morgan MK, Mori K, Morita A, Murayama Y, Nagahiro S, Pasqualin A, 
Raabe A, Raymond J, Rinkel GJ, Rüfenacht D, Seifert V, Spears J, Steiger HJ, 
Steinmetz H, Torner JC, Vajkoczy P, Wanke I, Wong GK, Wong JH, Macdonald RL.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Neurosurgery (N.E., K.B., D. Hänggi, H.-J.S.), Medical 
Faculty, Heinrich-Heine-University, Düsseldorf, Germany; Department of 
Neurosurgery, Emory Stroke Center, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
GA (D.L.B.); Department of Neurosurgery, The Mount Sinai Health System, New 
York, NY (J.B.); Departments of Neurology (R.D.B.) and Neurologic Surgery 
(G.L.), Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN; Department of Neurological Surgery, Columbia 
University, New York, NY (E.S.C.); Mallinckrodt Institute of Radiology, 
Washington University School of Medicine/ Barnes Jewish Hospital, St Louis, MO 
(C.P.D.); Departments of Neurosurgery (D. Hasan) and Epidemiology (J.C.T.), 
University of Iowa, Iowa City; Department of Clinical Neurosciences, University 
of Helsinki, Helsinki, Finland (S.J.); Department of Neurosurgery, Tokyo Women's 
Medical University Medical Center East, Tokyo, Japan (H.K.); Neurosurgery Unit, 
Department of Clinical Neurosciences, Cambridge University Hospitals Trust, 
University of Cambridge, Cambridge, UK (P.J.K.); Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, 
Western Australia (N.K.); Neurosurgery/ NeuroCenter, Kuopio University Hospital, 
University of Eastern Finland, Finland (T.K.); Department of Neurological 
Surgery, University of California, San Francisco (M.T.L.); Brain and Spine 
Center, Lankenau Medical Center, Wynnewood, PA (P.L.); Division of Neurological 
Surgery, Barrow Neurological Institute, St. Joseph's Hospital and Medical 
Center, Phoenix, AZ (C.G.M.); Department of Neurosurgery, Auckland City 
Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand (E.M.); Department of Neurological Surgery, 
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, TN (J.M.); Nuffield Department 
of Surgical Sciences, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK (A.M.); Division of 
Neurosurgery, Macquarie University, Sydney, Australia (M.K.M.); Department of 
Neurosurgery, National Defense Medical College, Tokyo, Japan (K.M.); Department 
of Neurological Surgery, Nippon Medical School, Tokyo, Japan (A.M.);

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: To address the increasing need to counsel patients about 
treatment indications for unruptured intracranial aneurysms (UIA), we endeavored 
to develop a consensus on assessment of UIAs among a group of specialists from 
diverse fields involved in research and treatment of UIAs.
METHODS: After composition of the research group, a Delphi consensus was 
initiated to identify and rate all features, which may be relevant to assess 
UIAs and their treatment by using ranking scales and analysis of inter-rater 
agreement (IRA) for each factor. IRA was categorized as very high, high, 
moderate, or low.
RESULTS: Ultimately, 39 specialists from 4 specialties agreed (high or very high 
IRAs) on the following key factors for or against UIA treatment decisions: (1) 
patient age, life expectancy, and comorbid diseases; (2) previous subarachnoid 
hemorrhage from a different aneurysm, family history for UIA or subarachnoid 
hemorrhage, nicotine use; (3) UIA size, location, and lobulation; (4) UIA growth 
or de novo formation on serial imaging; (5) clinical symptoms (cranial nerve 
deficit, mass effect, and thromboembolic events from UIAs); and (6) risk factors 
for UIA treatment (patient age and life expectancy, UIA size, and estimated risk 
of treatment). However, IRAs for features rated with low relevance were also 
generally low, which underlined the existing controversy about the natural 
history of UIAs.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results highlight that neurovascular specialists currently 
consider many features as important when evaluating UIAs but also highlight that 
the appreciation of natural history of UIAs remains uncertain, even within a 
group of highly informed individuals.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.114.004519
PMID: 24668202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. J Am Acad Orthop Surg. 2014 Apr;22(4):214-22. doi: 10.5435/JAAOS-22-04-214.

Pelvic resection: current concepts.

Mayerson JL, Wooldridge AN, Scharschmidt TJ.

Pelvic resection is a technique that involves surgical resection of portions of 
the pelvic girdle. Historically, this procedure was known as internal 
hemipelvectomy. Hemipelvectomy is a resection that includes the ipsilateral 
limb. The main indication for these procedures is primary malignant tumors of 
the pelvis, but in rare cases they are indicated for metastatic lesions, 
infection, or trauma. Reconstruction is dictated by the extent of the resection 
and the remaining structures. Surgical technique is dictated by histology of the 
tumor and location of the lesion. A multidisciplinary team is required. The 
patient and family should undergo counseling preoperatively to discuss morbidity 
and mortality, the extensive rehabilitation process, and life expectancy.

DOI: 10.5435/JAAOS-22-04-214
PMID: 24668351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Ann Acad Med Stetin. 2013:76-9.

[Left-handedness--blessing or curse?].

[Article in Polish]

Kisielska A, Rusin B.

PMID: 24669420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2014;78(1):3-22. doi: 10.2190/AG.78.1.b.

Age differences in subjective well-being across adulthood: the roles of savoring 
and future time perspective.

Ramsey MA, Gentzler AL.

Prior research indicates there are age differences in subjective well-being 
during adulthood, but research on age differences in savoring (up-regulating 
positive emotion) is lacking. Using an online survey (N = 218, adults 18-77), 
this study investigated age differences in subjective well-being and savoring, 
and whether future time perspective (perceived amount of time left to live) 
mediated associations between age and savoring. Results indicated a nonlinear 
effect of age on subjective well-being. Although savoring was associated with 
subjective well-being, age was not directly associated with savoring. However, 
an indirect effect of future time perspective linking age and savoring indicated 
that younger adults reported more perceived time left in life and those 
perceiving more time left in life reported greater savoring. Overall, the 
results do not support savoring as a direct explanatory mechanism for age 
differences in subjective well-being, but future time perspective appears to 
play an important role in indirect associations between age and savoring.

DOI: 10.2190/AG.78.1.b
PMID: 24669507 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2015 Feb;22(1):20-7. doi:
10.3109/09286586.2014.885057.  Epub 2014 Mar 26.

Utility values associated with diabetic retinopathy in Chennai, India.

Polack S(1), Alavi Y, Rachapalle Reddi S, Kulothungan V, Kuper H.

Author information:
(1)International Centre for Eye Health and International Centre for Evidence in 
Disability, Clinical Research Department, London School of Hygiene & Tropical 
Medicine , London , UK and.

PURPOSE: The aim of this study was to estimate utility values associated with 
different severity stages of diabetic retinopathy (DR) in India by a direct 
elicitation method (time-trade off, TTO) and indirectly by questionnaire.
METHODS: People with diabetes aged 40 years and over were recruited from an 
on-going DR epidemiology study and a laser clinic in Chennai, India. Utility 
values were elicited using the direct TTO method and indirectly through a 
validated questionnaire (EQ-5D).
RESULTS: Of 249 participants, 30 had no DR, 73 had non-proliferative DR, 114 had 
sight-threatening DR, and 32 were blind from DR (bilateral visual acuity <6/60). 
The mean TTO utility value was 0.73 (standard deviation, SD, 0.31). TTO utility 
values decreased with increasing severity of DR (p < 0.001) and were 
significantly lower among participants with sight threatening DR (0.70, SD 0.33) 
and blindness (0.55, SD 0.24) compared to those with no DR (0.89, SD 0.25) after 
adjustment for sociodemographic and clinical factors. Blindness from DR was 
independently associated with a lower EQ-5D utility value. The utility value 
derived from EQ-5D (0.06) associated with being blind from DR was substantially 
lower than that of the TTO utility value (0.55).
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides estimates of utility values that can be used in 
economic evaluations of DR screening strategies in India. The relatively low 
utility values associated with blindness highlights the importance of screening 
programs for early detection of the sight-threatening stages to prevent vision 
loss from DR in this setting.

DOI: 10.3109/09286586.2014.885057
PMID: 24669801 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Biochemistry. 2014 Apr 22;53(15):2464-73. doi: 10.1021/bi500146d. Epub 2014
Apr  8.

The N-terminal extension of βB1-crystallin chaperones β-crystallin folding and 
cooperates with αA-crystallin.

Leng XY(1), Wang S, Cao NQ, Qi LB, Yan YB.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Biomembrane and Membrane Biotechnology, School of 
Life Sciences, Tsinghua University , Beijing 100084, China.

β/γ-Crystallins are the major structural proteins in mammalian lens. The 
N-terminal truncation of βB1-crystallin has been associated with the regulation 
of β-crystallin size distributions in human lens. Herein we studied the roles of 
βB1 N-terminal extension in protein structure and folding by constructing five 
N-terminal truncated forms. The truncations did not affect the secondary and 
tertiary structures of the main body as well as stability against denaturation. 
Truncations with more than 28 residues off the N-terminus promoted the 
dissociation of the dimeric βB1 into monomers in diluted solutions. 
Interestingly, the N-terminal extension facilitated βB1 to adopt the correct 
folding pathway, while truncated proteins were prone to undergo the 
misfolding/aggregation pathway during kinetic refolding. The N-terminal 
extension of βB1 acted as an intramolecular chaperone (IMC) to regulate the 
kinetic partitioning between folding and misfolding. The IMC function of the 
N-terminal extension was also critical to the correct refolding of β-crystallin 
heteromer and the action of the lens-specific molecular chaperone αA-crystallin. 
The cooperation between IMC and molecular chaperones produced a much stronger 
chaperoning effect than if they acted separately. To our knowledge, this is the 
first report showing the cooperation between IMC and molecular chaperones.

DOI: 10.1021/bi500146d
PMID: 24669963 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Global Health. 2014 Mar 26;10:17. doi: 10.1186/1744-8603-10-17.

mHealth and global mental health: still waiting for the mH2 wedding?

Farrington C(1), Aristidou A, Ruggeri K.

Author information:
(1)Cambridge Centre for Health Services Research, Institute of Public Health 
Forvie Site, University of Cambridge School of Clinical Medicine, Cambridge 
Biomedical Campus, Box 113, Cambridge CB2 0SR, UK. cjtf2@medschl.cam.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Two phenomena have become increasingly visible over the past decade: 
the significant global burden of disease arising from mental illness and the 
rapid acceleration of mobile phone usage in poorer countries. Mental ill-health 
accounts for a significant proportion of global disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) and years lived with disability (YLDs), especially in poorer countries 
where a number of factors combine to exacerbate issues of undertreatment. Yet 
poorer countries have also witnessed significant investments in, and dramatic 
expansions of, mobile coverage and usage over the past decade.
DEBATE: The conjunction of high levels of mental illness and high levels of 
mobile phone usage in poorer countries highlights the potential for "mH(2)" 
interventions--i.e. mHealth (mobile technology-based) mental health 
interventions--to tackle global mental health challenges. However, global mental 
health movements and initiatives have yet to engage fully with this potential, 
partly because of scepticism towards technological solutions in general and 
partly because existing mH(2) projects in mental health have often taken place 
in a fragmented, narrowly-focused, and small-scale manner. We argue for a deeper 
and more sustained engagement with mobile phone technology in the global mental 
health context, and outline the possible shape of an integrated mH(2) platform 
for the diagnosis, treatment, and monitoring of mental health.
SUMMARY: Existing and developing mH(2) technologies represent an underutilised 
resource in global mental health. If development, evaluation, and implementation 
challenges are overcome, an integrated mH2 platform would make significant 
contributions to mental healthcare in multiple settings and contexts.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-8603-10-17
PMCID: PMC3986901
PMID: 24670011 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. BMC Cancer. 2014 Mar 26;14:224. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-224.

The cost of lost productivity due to premature cancer-related mortality: an 
economic measure of the cancer burden.

Hanly PA(1), Sharp L.

Author information:
(1)National College of Ireland, Mayor Street, Dublin 1, Ireland. 
paul.hanly@ncirl.ie.

BACKGROUND: Most measures of the cancer burden take a public health perspective. 
Cancer also has a significant economic impact on society. To assess this 
economic burden, we estimated years of potential productive life lost (YPPLL) 
and costs of lost productivity due to premature cancer-related mortality in 
Ireland.
METHODS: All cancers combined and the 10 sites accounting for most deaths in men 
and in women were considered. To compute YPPLL, deaths in 5-year age-bands 
between 15 and 64 years were multiplied by average working-life expectancy. 
Valuation of costs, using the human capital approach, involved multiplying YPPLL 
by age-and-gender specific gross wages, and adjusting for unemployment and 
workforce participation. Sensitivity analyses were conducted around retirement 
age and wage growth, labour force participation, employment and discount rates, 
and to explore the impact of including household production and caring costs. 
Costs were expressed in €2009.
RESULTS: Total YPPLL was lower in men than women (men = 10,873; women = 12,119). 
Premature cancer-related mortality costs were higher in men (men: total cost = 
€332 million, cost/death = €290,172, cost/YPPLL = €30,558; women: total cost = 
€177 million, cost/death = €159,959, cost/YPPLL = €14,628). Lung cancer had the 
highest premature mortality cost (€84.0 million; 16.5% of total costs), followed 
by cancers of the colorectum (€49.6 million; 9.7%), breast (€49.4 million; 9.7%) 
and brain & CNS (€42.4 million: 8.3%). The total economic cost of premature 
cancer-related mortality in Ireland amounted to €509.5 million or 0.3% of gross 
domestic product. An increase of one year in the retirement age increased the 
total all-cancer premature mortality cost by 9.9% for men and 5.9% for women. 
