ileocolonoscopy, disease location was ileal (L1) in 60%, colonic (L2) in 10% and 
ileocolonic (L3) in 30% of the patients. In 33 patients (66%) SBCE detected 
significant proximal lesions previously missed by other modalities. The 
proportion of patients on thiopurines and/or biologics before SBCE was 2/50 
(4%); this was significantly higher three months after SBCE, 15/50 (30%), 
p=0.023. Treatment with thiopurines and/or biologics was started more often in 
patients with proximal small bowel lesions [13/33 (39%) vs. 1/17 (6%), p=0.011, 
relative risk (RR) 6.5], particularly when severe (6%, 36% and 45% of patients 
with non-significant, mild and moderate-to-severe inflammation, respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: SBCE diagnoses previously undetected lesions and it influences 
therapeutic management of CD, triggering an earlier introduction of 
immunomodulators and/or biological therapy.

Copyright © 2014 European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crohns.2014.02.018
PMID: 24631311 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Comput Med Imaging Graph. 2014 Jul;38(5):381-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.compmedimag.2014.02.003. Epub 2014 Feb 22.

Ocular fundus reference images from optical coherence tomography.

Guimarães P(1), Rodrigues P(2), Lobo C(3), Leal S(4), Figueira J(5), Serranho 
P(6), Bernardes R(7).

Author information:
(1)IBILI - Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Life Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Coimbra, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 
Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic address: pedrogsc@aibili.pt.
(2)AIBILI - Association for Innovation and Biomedical Research on Light and 
Image, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 Coimbra, Portugal. Electronic 
address: prodrigues@aibili.pt.
(3)IBILI - Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Life Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Coimbra, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 
Coimbra, Portugal; AIBILI - Association for Innovation and Biomedical Research 
on Light and Image, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 Coimbra, Portugal; 
Coimbra University Hospitals, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 Coimbra, 
Portugal. Electronic address: clobo@aibili.pt.
(4)AIBILI - Association for Innovation and Biomedical Research on Light and 
Image, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 Coimbra, Portugal; Coimbra 
University Hospitals, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 Coimbra, 
Portugal. Electronic address: sleal@aibili.pt.
(5)IBILI - Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Life Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Coimbra, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 
Coimbra, Portugal; AIBILI - Association for Innovation and Biomedical Research 
on Light and Image, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 Coimbra, Portugal; 
Coimbra University Hospitals, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 Coimbra, 
Portugal. Electronic address: joaofigueira@oftalmologia.co.pt.
(6)IBILI - Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Life Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Coimbra, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 
Coimbra, Portugal; Mathematics Section, Department of Science and Technology, 
Universidade Aberta, Campus TagusPark, Av. Dr. Jacques Delors, 2740-122 Porto 
Salvo, Oeiras, Portugal. Electronic address: pedro.serranho@uab.pt.
(7)IBILI - Institute for Biomedical Imaging and Life Sciences, Faculty of 
Medicine, University of Coimbra, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 
Coimbra, Portugal; AIBILI - Association for Innovation and Biomedical Research 
on Light and Image, Azinhaga de Santa Comba, Celas, 3000-548 Coimbra, Portugal. 
Electronic address: rcb@aibili.pt.

Two-dimensional images computed from three-dimensional optical coherence 
tomography (OCT) data are intrinsically aligned with it, allowing to accurately 
position a retinal OCT scan within the ocular fundus. In this work, we aim to 
compute an OCT fundus reference image with improved retinal vasculature 
extension and contrast over traditional approaches. Based on the shadow casted 
by hemoglobin on the outer layers of the retina, we compute three independent 
images from the OCT volumetric data (including the traditional fundus reference 
image). Combining these images, a fourth one is created that is able to 
outperform the other three, both quantitatively and qualitatively (as evaluated 
by retina specialists). The vascular network extension provided by this method 
was also compared with widely used fundus imaging modalities, showing that it is 
similar to that achieved with color fundus photography. In this way, the 
proposed method is an important starting point to the segmentation of the 
vascular tree and provides users with a detailed fundus reference image.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.compmedimag.2014.02.003
PMID: 24631317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. Mol Biochem Parasitol. 2014 Feb;193(2):82-92. doi: 
10.1016/j.molbiopara.2014.03.001. Epub 2014 Mar 12.

Analysis of U3 snoRNA and small subunit processome components in the parasitic 
protist Entamoeba histolytica.

Srivastava A(1), Ahamad J(2), Ray AK(3), Kaur D(4), Bhattacharya A(5), 
Bhattacharya S(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Environmental Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi 
110067, India. Electronic address: ankita26@gmail.com.
(2)School of Environmental Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi 
110067, India. Electronic address: j.ahamadjnu@gmail.com.
(3)School of Environmental Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi 
110067, India. Electronic address: ashwinires21@gmail.com.
(4)School of Environmental Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi 
110067, India. Electronic address: kaur.devbio@gmail.com.
(5)School of Life Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi 110067, 
India. Electronic address: alok.bhattacharya@gmail.com.
(6)School of Environmental Sciences, Jawaharlal Nehru University, New Delhi 
110067, India. Electronic address: sbjnu110@gmail.com.

In the early branching parasitic protist Entamoeba histolytica, pre-rRNA 
synthesis continues when cells are subjected to growth stress, but processing 
slows down and unprocessed pre-rRNA accumulates. To gain insight into the 
regulatory mechanisms leading to accumulation, it is necessary to define the 
pre-rRNA processing machinery in E. histolytica. We searched the E. histolytica 
genome sequence for homologs of the SSU processome, which contains the U3snoRNA, 
and 72 proteins in yeast. We could identify 57 of the proteins with high 
confidence. Of the rest, 6 were absent in human, and 4 were non-essential in 
yeast. The remaining 5 were absent in other parasite genomes as well. Analysis 
of U3snoRNA showed that the E. histolytica U3snoRNA adopted the same conserved 
secondary structure as seen in yeast and human. The predicted structure was 
verified by chemical modification followed by primer extension (SHAPE). Further 
we showed that the predicted interactions of Eh_U3snoRNA boxes A and A' with 
pre-18S rRNA were highly conserved both in position and sequence. The predicted 
interactions of 5'-hinge and 3'-hinge sequences of Eh_U3 snoRNA with the 5'-ETS 
sequences were conserved in position but not in sequence. Transcription of 
selected genes of SSU processome was tested by northern analysis, and 
transcripts of predicted sizes were obtained. During serum starvation, when 
unprocessed pre-RNA accumulated, the transcript levels of some of these genes 
declined. This is the first report on pre-rRNA processing machinery in E. 
histolytica, and shows that the components are well conserved with respect to 
yeast and human.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.molbiopara.2014.03.001
PMID: 24631428 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Orv Hetil. 2014 Mar;155 Suppl:3-24. doi: 10.1556/OH.2013.29893.

[Diagnosis, treatment, and follow-up of hepatitis C-virus related liver disease. 
Hungarian national consensus guideline].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Hunyady B(1), Gervain J(2), Horváth G(3), Makara M(4), Pár A(5), Szalay F(6), 
Telegdy L(4), Tornai I(7).

Author information:
(1)Somogy Megyei Kaposi Mór Oktató Kórház Belgyógyászati Osztály Kaposvár 
Tallián Gyula u. 20-32. 7400 Pécsi Tudományegyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar 
I. Belgyógyászati Klinika Pécs.
(2)Szent György Egyetemi Oktató Kórház I. Belgyógyászat és Molekuláris 
Diagnosztikai Laboratórium Székesfehérvár.
(3)Szent János Kórház és Észak-budai Egyesített Kórházak Hepatológiai 
Szakrendelés Budapest.
(4)Egyesített Szent István és Szent László Kórház Budapest.
(5)Pécsi Tudományegyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar I. Belgyógyászati Klinika 
Pécs.
(6)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar I. Belgyógyászati Klinika 
Budapest.
(7)Debreceni Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar, Orvos- és Egészségtudományi 
Centrum Belgyógyászati Intézet Debrecen.

Approximately 70 000 people are infected with hepatitis C virus in Hungary, more 
than half of whom are not aware of their infection. Early recognition and 
effective treatment of related liver injury may prevent consequent advanced 
liver diseases (liver cirrhosis and liver cancer) and its complications. In 
addition, it may increase work productivity and life expectancy of infected 
individual, and can prevent further viral transmission. Early recognition can 
substantially reduce the long term financial burden of related morbidity from 
socioeconomic point of view. Pegylated interferon + ribavirin dual therapy, 
which is available in Hungary since 2003, can kill the virus in 40-45% of 
previously not treated (naïve), and in 5-21% of previous treatment-failure 
patients. Addition of two direct acting first generation protease inhibitor 
drugs (boceprevir and telaprevir) to the dual therapy increased the chance of 
sustained clearance of virus to 63-75% and 59-66%, respectively. These two 
protease inhibitor drugs are available and financed for a segment of Hungarian 
patients since May 2013. Indication of therapy includes exclusion of 
contraindications to the drugs and demonstration of viral replication with 
consequent liver injury, i.e., inflammation and/or fibrosis in the liver. For 
initiation of treatment as well as for on-treatment decisions accurate and 
timely molecular biology tests are mandatory. Staging of liver damage (fibrosis) 
non-invasive methods (transient elastography and biochemical methods) are 
acceptable to avoid concerns of patients related to liver biopsy. Professional 
decision for treatment is balanced against budget limitations in Hungary, and 
priority is given to those with urgent need using a national Priority Index 
system reflecting stage of liver disease as well as additional factors (activity 
and progression of liver disease, predictive factors and other special 
circumstances). All naïve patients are given a first chance with dual therapy. 
Those with genotype 1 infection and with on-treatment or historic failure to 
dual therapy are eligible to receive protease inhibitor based triple therapy 
provided, they reach financial cutoff eligibility based on Priority Index. 
Duration of therapy is usually 48 weeks in genotype 1 with a response-guided 
potential to reduce duration for non-cirrhotic patients. Patients with non-1 
genotypes are treated with dual therapy (without protease inhibitors) for a 
genotype and response driven duration of 16, 24, 48, or 72 week. Careful 
monitoring for early recognition and management of side-effects as well as viral 
response and potential breakthrough during protease-inhibitor therapy are 
recommended.

Publisher: Magyarországon 70 000 egyén lehet fertőzött hepatitis C-vírussal, 
többségük nem tud fertőzöttségéről. A fertőzés időben történő felfedezése és 
meggyógyítása a beteg szempontjából a munkaképesség megőrzését, az életminőség 
javulását, a májzsugor és a májrák megelőzését, valamint a betegségmentes 
várható élettartam meghosszabbodását, míg a beteg környezete és a társadalom 
szempontjából a továbbfertőzés veszélyének megállítását, a későbbi súlyos 
májbetegségekből adódó egészségügyi ráfordításigény jelentős csökkenését 
jelenti. A 2003 óta alkalmazott pegilált interferon+ribavirin kettős kezeléssel 
a korábban terápiában nem részesült betegek 40–45%-a, a sikertelenül kezeltek 
5–21%-a gyógyítható meg. 2011-ben a korábbiaknál lényegesen hatékonyabb, két új, 
direkt antivirális hatású proteázgátló szer került forgalomba (boceprevir és 
telaprevir). A két új szer jelentősen növeli a fertőzés sikeres gyógyításának 
esélyét, mindkét fenti betegcsoportban (63–75%, illetve 59–66%). A készítmények 
– a legrászorultabb beteg számára – 2013. május 1. óta hazánkban is 
finanszírozottá váltak. A kezelés indikációja – az ellenjavallatok kizárása után 
– a vírusnukleinsav és a májbetegség kimutatása. Utóbbit a gyulladásos aktivitás 
és/vagy a májfibrosis mértéke (stádium) jellemzi. A kivizsgálás és a kezelés 
során fontos a virológiai vizsgálatok gyors és megbízható elvégzése. A stádium 
meghatározására az invazív májbiopszia mellett a nem invazív tranziens 
elasztográfia és validált biokémiai fibroteszt módszerek alkalmazhatók. A 
szakmailag indokolt kezelés finanszírozási korlátok figyelembevételével, a 
rászorultság sorrendjében kerül engedélyezésre. Ennek alapja az úgynevezett 
Prioritási Index, amely a májbetegség stádiuma mellett figyelembe veszi a 
betegség aktivitását, a kezelés sikerességének várható esélyét és további 
meghatározott speciális szempontokat is. Hazánkban a korábban még nem kezeltek 
terápiájában továbbra is a pegilált interferon és ribavirin kettős kombináció, 
míg a korábban sikertelenül kezelt, 1-es genotípussal fertőzött betegek 
proteázgátló alapú hármas kombinációban részesülnek. Nem 1-es genotípus esetén a 
proteázgátlók nem használhatók. A terápia időtartama 1-es genotípus esetén 
általában 48 hét, megfelelő vírusválasz mellett, cirrhosis hiányában rövidebb 
kezelés is elegendő lehet. 2-es és 3-as genotípus esetén a kezelés időtartama 
leggyakrabban 24 hét, míg 4-es vagy ismeretlen genotípus esetén a gyógyszerek 
adásának időtartama 24/48/72 hetes, a terápiás válasz függvényében. Fokozott 
figyelmet kell fordítani a mellékhatásokra, a gyógyszerkölcsönhatásokra és a 
rezisztencia lehetőségére. Orv. Hetil., 2014, 155(Szuppl. 2), 3–24.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2013.29893
PMID: 24631886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Orv Hetil. 2014 Mar;155 Suppl:25-36. doi: 10.1556/OH.2013.29894.

[Diagnosis and treatment of chronic hepatitis B and D. Hungarian national 
consensus guideline].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Horváth G(1), Hunyady B(2), Gervain J(3), Lengyel G(4), Makara M(5), Pár A(6), 
Szalay F(7), Telegdy L(5), Tornai I(8).

Author information:
(1)Budai Hepatológiai Centrum Budapest Egry József u. 1-3. 1111 Szent János 
Kórház és Észak-budai Egyesített Kórházak Hepatológiai Szakambulancia Budapest.
(2)Somogy Megyei Kaposi Mór Oktató Kórház Belgyógyászati Osztály Kaposvár Pécsi 
Tudományegyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar I. Belgyógyászati Klinika Pécs.
(3)Szent György Egyetemi Oktató Kórház I. Belgyógyászat és Molekuláris 
Diagnosztikai Laboratórium Székesfehérvár.
(4)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar II. Belgyógyászati Klinika 
Budapest.
(5)Egyesített Szent István és Szent László Kórház Budapest.
(6)Pécsi Tudományegyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar I. Belgyógyászati Klinika 
Pécs.
(7)Semmelweis Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar I. Belgyógyászati Klinika 
Budapest.
(8)Debreceni Egyetem, Általános Orvostudományi Kar, Orvos- és Egészségtudományi 
Centrum Belgyógyászati Intézet Debrecen.

Diagnosis and treatment of hepatitis B and D virus infections mean that the 
patient is able to maintain working capacity, increase quality of life, prevent 
cancer, and prolong life expectancy, while the society benefits from eliminating 
the chances of further transmission of the viruses, and decreasing the overall 
costs of serious complications. The guideline delineates the treatment 
algorithms for 2014, which is agreed on a consensus meeting of specialists 
involved in the treatment of the above diseases. The prevalence of hepatitis B 
virus infection in the Hungarian general population is 0.5-0.7%. The indications 
of treatment is based upon viral examinations (including viral nucleic acid 
determination), determinations of disease activity and stage (including 
biochemical, pathologic, and/or non-invasive methods), and excluding 
contraindications. To avoid unnecessary side effects and for cost-effective 
approach the guideline emphasizes the importance of quick and detailed virologic 
evaluations, the applicability of transient elastography as an acceptable 
alternative of liver biopsy in this regard, as well as the relevance of 
appropriate consistent follow up schedule for viral response during therapy. The 
first choice of therapy in chronic hepatitis B infection can be pegylated 
interferon for 48 weeks or continuous entecavir or tenofovir therapy. The latter 
two must be continued for at least 12 months after hepatitis B surface antigen 
seroconversion. Adefovir dipivoxil is recommended mainly in combination therapy. 
Lamivudine is no longer a first choice; patients currently taking lamivudine 
must switch if response is inadequate. Appropriate treatment of patients taking 
immunosuppressive medications is highly recommended. Pegylated interferon based 
therapy is recommended for the treatment of concomitant hepatitis D infection.

Publisher: A hepatitis B- és D-vírus-fertőzés időben történő felfedezése és 
kezelése a beteg szempontjából a munkaképesség megőrzését, az életminőség 
javulását, rákmegelőzést, valamint a betegségmentes várható élettartam 
meghosszabbodását, a beteg környezete és a társadalom szempontjából a 
továbbfertőzés veszélyének megállítását és a kezelés révén a későbbi súlyos 
májbetegségekből adódó jelentős egészségügyi ráfordításigény-csökkenést jelent. 
Az irányelv célja a 2014. évre érvényes, a kezelőorvosok konszenzusán alapuló 
kezelési rend rögzítése. A magyar lakosság 0,5–0,7%-át sújtó hepatitis 
B-vírus-fertőzés kezelésének indikációja a vírusdiagnosztikán (benne 
vírusnukleinsav kimutatása), a májbetegség aktivitásának és stádiumának 
értékelésén (beleértve biokémiai, patológiai és/vagy nem invazív 
vizsgálómódszereket), valamint az ellenjavallatok kizárásán alapul. Az ajánlás 
hangsúlyozza a kivizsgálás során a gyors és részletes virológiai vizsgálatok 
jelentőségét, a biopszia mellett a tranziens elasztográfia, illetve egyéb, 
validált, noninvazív tesztek alkalmazhatóságát csakúgy, mint a terápia 
vezetésében a vírusnukleinsav-titer követésének nélkülözhetetlenségét mind a 
mellékhatások elkerülése, mind a költséghatékonyság szempontjából. Az idült 
hepatitis B kezelésében egyaránt első választás lehet a határozott – egyéves – 
időtartamú pegilált interferon vagy a folyamatos entecavir- vagy 
tenofovirkezelés, amelyet a hepatitis B felszíni antigén szerokonverziója után 
még legalább 12 hónapig kell folytatni. Az adefovir leginkább kombinációban 
javasolható. Nem megfelelő első választás a lamivudin, az ezt már szedő 
betegeket hatástalanság esetén másik szerre kell átállítani. Fontos az 
immunszuppresszív kezelésben és/vagy biológiai terápiában részesülő betegek 
megfelelő antivirális kezelése. Egyidejű hepatitis D esetén pegilált interferon 
kezelés szükséges. Orv. Hetil., 2014, 155(Szuppl. 2), 25–35.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2013.29894
PMID: 24631887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Curr Opin Microbiol. 2014 Apr;18:61-7. doi: 10.1016/j.mib.2014.02.003. Epub
2014  Mar 12.

The mystery of aging and rejuvenation - a budding topic.

Nyström T(1), Liu B(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Gothenburg, 
Medicinaregatan 9C, S-413 90 Göteborg, Sweden. Electronic address: 
thomas.nystrom@cmb.gu.se.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Molecular Biology, University of Gothenburg, 
Medicinaregatan 9C, S-413 90 Göteborg, Sweden.

In the process of yeast budding, an aged and deteriorated mother cell gives rise 
to a youthful and pristine daughter cell. This remarkable event offers a 
tractable model system for identifying factors affecting life expectancy and it 
has been established that multiple aging factors operate in parallel. Herein, we 
will highlight the identity of such aging factors, how they are asymmetrically 
segregated, and whether the knowledge of their deteriorating effects might be 
utilized to approach cellular and tissue rejuvenation in metazoans, including 
humans.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mib.2014.02.003
PMID: 24631930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Bioresour Technol. 2014 Apr;158:321-8. doi: 10.1016/j.biortech.2014.02.063.
Epub  2014 Feb 24.

Aerobic decolorization and degradation of azo dyes by suspended growing cells 
and immobilized cells of a newly isolated yeast Magnusiomyces ingens LH-F1.

Tan L(1), Li H(2), Ning S(2), Xu B(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Science, Liaoning Normal University, Dalian 116081, China. 
Electronic address: tanliang19811210@163.com.
(2)School of Life Science, Liaoning Normal University, Dalian 116081, China.
(3)Laboratory of Aquatic Products Quality and Safety Inspection, Dalian City 
Fisherles Technical Extension Station, Dalian 116024, China.

Aerobic decolorization and degradation of azo dyes by both of suspended growing 
cells and immobilized cells of a newly isolated yeast strain LH-F1 were 
investigated in this study. A yeast strain LH-F1 capable of aerobically 
decolorizing various azo dyes (20mg/L) was identified as Magnusiomyces ingens 
basing on 26S rDNA analysis. Meanwhile, effects of different parameters on 
decolorization of Acid Red B by both of suspended growing cells and immobilized 
cells of strain LH-F1 were investigated. Furthermore, possible degradation 
pathway of the dye was proposed through analyzing metabolic intermediates using 
UV-Vis and HPLC-MS methods. As far as it is known, it is the first systematic 
research on a M. ingens strain which is capable of efficiently decolorizing azo 
dyes under aerobic condition. Additionally, this work would also provide a 
potentially useful microbial strain LH-F1 for treatment of industrial 
wastewaters containing azo dyes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biortech.2014.02.063
PMID: 24632410 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Gerontologist. 2014 Oct;54(5):733-40. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnu010. Epub 2014
Mar  14.

Spain: promoting the welfare of older adults in the context of population aging.

Serrano JP(1), Latorre JM(2), Gatz M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology and Regional Centre of Biomedical Research (IDNE), 
Health Psychology Unit, University of Castilla-La Mancha, Albacete, Spain. 
juanpedro.serrano@uclm.es.
(2)Department of Psychology and Regional Centre of Biomedical Research (IDNE), 
Health Psychology Unit, University of Castilla-La Mancha, Albacete, Spain.
(3)Department of Psychology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles.

Spain is one of the European countries with the most significant societal 
changes in the 21st century contributing to an aging population, in particular, 
high life expectancy coupled with low fertility, which will result in a doubling 
of the old-age dependency ratio. Demographic aging implies important challenges 
that affect the lives of people, families, the economy, public finances, and the 
reorganization of the health and social systems. Currently, the older population 
has become particularly vulnerable due to the economic crisis taking place in 
Spain, which has brought about the need for new policies and systems to protect 
older persons. The pension system is under the greatest threat in conjunction 
with possible changes in the national health care system. This report presents a 
general view of the main factors that surround and affect older adults in Spain, 
as well as policies developed by the government in response to the current and 
future situation. We highlight demographic predictions for the coming decades, 
quality-of-life indicators, situations of dependency, active aging policies, and 
the main research programs related to gerontology in Spain.

© Crown copyright 2014.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnu010
PMCID: PMC4229894
PMID: 24632624 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. PLoS One. 2014 Mar 14;9(3):e91004. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091004. 
eCollection 2014.

Cost-effectiveness of early infant HIV diagnosis of HIV-exposed infants and 
immediate antiretroviral therapy in HIV-infected children under 24 months in 
Thailand.

Collins IJ(1), Cairns J(2), Ngo-Giang-Huong N(3), Sirirungsi W(4), Leechanachai 
P(4), Le Coeur S(5), Samleerat T(4), Kamonpakorn N(6), Mekmullica J(7), Jourdain 
G(3), Lallemant M(3); Programme for HIV Prevention and Treatment Study Team.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Epidemiology and Population Health, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom; Institut de Recherche pour le 
Développement (IRD)-Programs for HIV Prevention and Treatment (PHPT), Chiang 
Mai, Thailand; Department of Immunology and Infectious Diseases, Harvard School 
of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(2)Faculty of Public Health and Policy, London School of Hygiene & Tropical 
Medicine, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD)-Programs for HIV Prevention 
and Treatment (PHPT), Chiang Mai, Thailand; Department of Immunology and 
Infectious Diseases, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, 
United States of America; Department of Medical Technology, Faculty of 
Associated Medical Sciences, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thailand.
(4)Department of Medical Technology, Faculty of Associated Medical Sciences, 
Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thailand.
(5)Institut de Recherche pour le Développement (IRD)-Programs for HIV Prevention 
and Treatment (PHPT), Chiang Mai, Thailand; Department of Immunology and 
Infectious Diseases, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts, 
United States of America; Department of Medical Technology, Faculty of 
Associated Medical Sciences, Chiang Mai University, Chiang Mai, Thailand; Unité 
Mixte de Recherche 196 Centre Français de la Population et du Développement 
(INED-IRD-Paris V University), Paris, France.
(6)Paediatrics Department, Somdej Prapinklao Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.
(7)Paediatrics Department, Bhumibol Adulyadej Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: HIV-infected infants have high risk of death in the first two years 
of life if untreated. WHO guidelines recommend early infant HIV diagnosis (EID) 
of all HIV-exposed infants and immediate antiretroviral therapy (ART) in 
HIV-infected children under 24-months. We assessed the cost-effectiveness of 
this strategy in HIV-exposed non-breastfed children in Thailand.
METHODS: A decision analytic model of HIV diagnosis and disease progression 
compared: EID using DNA PCR with immediate ART (Early-Early); or EID with 
deferred ART based on immune/clinical criteria (Early-Late); vs. 
clinical/serology based diagnosis and deferred ART (Reference). The model was 
populated with survival and cost data from a Thai observational cohort and the 
literature. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratio per life-year gained (LYG) was 
compared against the Reference strategy. Costs and outcomes were discounted at 
3%.
RESULTS: Mean discounted life expectancy of HIV-infected children increased from 
13.3 years in the Reference strategy to 14.3 in the Early-Late and 17.8 years in 
Early-Early strategies. The mean discounted lifetime cost was $17,335, $22,583 
and $29,108, respectively. The cost-effectiveness ratio of Early-Late and 
Early-Early strategies was $5,149 and $2,615 per LYG, respectively as compared 
to the Reference strategy. The Early-Early strategy was most cost-effective at 
approximately half the domestic product per capita per LYG ($4,420 in Thailand 
2011). The results were robust in deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses including varying perinatal transmission rates.
CONCLUSION: In Thailand, EID and immediate ART would lead to major survival 
benefits and is cost- effective. These findings strongly support the adoption of 
WHO recommendations as routine care.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0091004
PMCID: PMC3954590
PMID: 24632750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


620. Sci Rep. 2014 Mar 17;4:4391. doi: 10.1038/srep04391.

Synchronization extends the life time of the desired behavior of globally 
coupled systems.

Kapitaniak M(1), Lazarek M(2), Nielaczny M(2), Czolczynski K(2), Perlikowski 
P(2), Kapitaniak T(2).

Author information:
(1)1] Division of Dynamics, Technical University of Lodz, Stefanowskiego 1/15, 
90-924 Lodz, Poland [2] Centre for Applied Dynamics Research, School of 
Engineering, University of Aberdeen, AB24 3UE, Aberdeen, Scotland.
(2)Division of Dynamics, Technical University of Lodz, Stefanowskiego 1/15, 
90-924 Lodz, Poland.

Synchronization occurs widely in natural and technological world, but it has not 
been widely used to extend the life time of the desirable behavior of the 
coupled systems. Here we consider the globally coupled system consisting of n 
units and show that the initial synchronous state extends the lifetime of 
desired behavior of the coupled system in the case when the excitation of one or 
few units is suddenly (breakdown of energy supply) or gradually (as the effect 
of aging and fatigue) switched off. We give evidence that for the properly 
chosen coupling the energy transfer from the excited units allows unexcited 
units to operate in the desired manner. As proof of concept, we examine the 
system of coupled externally excited rotating pendula. After the partial 
excitation switch off the initial complete synchronization of all pendula is 
replaced by phase synchronization with a constant phase shift between the 
clusters of excited and unexcited pendula. Our results show that the described 
extension of the system's life time occurs for the wide range of coupling 
parameters and is robust to the external perturbations.

DOI: 10.1038/srep04391
PMCID: PMC3955919
PMID: 24633215


621. J Bone Miner Metab. 2015 Mar;33(2):180-5. doi: 10.1007/s00774-014-0572-z.
Epub  2014 Mar 16.

Factors associated with low bone mineral density in patients with cystic 
fibrosis.

Sheikh S(1), Gemma S, Patel A.

Author information:
(1)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, Nationwide 
Children's Hospital, ED 444 700 Children's Drive, Columbus, OH, 43205, USA, 
shahid.sheikh@nationwidechildrens.org.

Osteoporosis associated with cystic fibrosis is becoming more important as the 
life expectancy of patients continues to improve. This study was done to 
determine the prevalence of osteoporosis and osteopenia in CF patients and to 
identify risk factors. We reviewed the medical charts of 103 adults and 
adolescents with Cystic Fibrosis who had undergone a dual energy X-ray 
absorptiometry (DEXA) scan to measure the bone mineral content of the lumbar 
spine (L1-L4). Disease severity was assessed by lung function and body mass 
index (BMI) was calculated from weight and height at the time of the DEXA. None 
of the patients were being treated for low BMD. Random blood samples were 
analyzed for biochemical markers. The relationship between all these variables 
and BMD measurements was analyzed. Of 103 patients, ten (9.7%) patients (9 
males, 1 female) were diagnosed with osteoporosis. An additional 36 (35%) 
patients (26 males, 10 females) were identified as having osteopenia. BMI, 
gender, weight, lung functions (FVC, FEV1, and FEF 25-75), and alkaline 
phosphatase, and 25-OH vitamin D levels were significantly correlated with 
Z-scores (p < 0.05). Stepwise linear regression revealed that a low Z-score was 
best predicted with low FEV1, male gender, low weight, and low 25-OH vitamin D 
levels (p < 0.05) for each variable. Osteopenia and osteoporosis are common in 
adults with CF, especially in male patients and in patients with low lung 
function, body weight, and 25-OH vitamin D levels.

DOI: 10.1007/s00774-014-0572-z
PMID: 24633535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Arch Gynecol Obstet. 2014 Aug;290(2):329-34. doi: 10.1007/s00404-014-3202-z.
 Epub 2014 Mar 15.

Pathologic prognostic factors in stage I-III uterine carcinosarcoma treated with 
postoperative radiotherapy.

Rovirosa A(1), Ascaso C, Arenas M, Ríos I, Del Pino M, Ordi J, Morales J, Gascón 
M, Pahisa J, Biete A.

Author information:
(1)Gynecological Cancer Unit, Radiation Oncology Department, Hospital Clinic, 
ICMHO, IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, C/Villarroel 170, 08036, Barcelona, 
Spain, rovirosa@clinic.ub.es.

PURPOSE: To analyse the impact of prognostic factors on specific overall 
survival (SOS) after postoperative radiotherapy (P-RT) in carcinosarcomas.
METHODS: We retrospectively analysed 81 patients who received P-RT from 1977 to 
2010 after the diagnosis of carcinosarcomas. 2009 FIGO stage: 25-IA, 20-IB, 
6-II, 9-IIIA, 11-IIIC. Age, stage, vascular and lymphatic space invasion (VLSI), 
myometrial invasion, grade, mitotic index, sarcomatous/epithelial components, 
tumour size and necrosis were considered for the analysis.
STATISTICS: we used the Kaplan-Meier method for survival analysis and the Cox 
model for risk factor evaluation.
RESULTS: The mean follow-up of the series was 78.86 months (range 7-381). The 
median age was 72 years (range 51-89). 30 out 81 (37 %) patients relapsed and 
died (22.2 % pelvic and abdominal, 13.5 % exclusive distant metastasis). On 
univariate and multivariate analysis only stage had a significant impact on SOS. 
At 5 years, stage I-II had a SOS of 66 % in comparison with stage III with 30 %.
CONCLUSIONS: Two groups of patients showing different outcome were found after 
P-RT in uterine carcinosarcomas: stage I-II patients had a life expectancy 
2.5-fold longer compared to stage III patients. New therapeutic strategies are 
warranted in carcinosarcomas considering the high incidence of distant 
metastasis.

DOI: 10.1007/s00404-014-3202-z
PMID: 24633893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Lifetime Data Anal. 2014 Apr;20(2):159-60. doi: 10.1007/s10985-014-9294-8.
Epub  2014 Mar 18.

Competing risks.

Fine J(1), Lindqvist BH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, 
Chapel Hill, NC, 27599-7400, USA, jfine@email.unc.edu.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-014-9294-8
PMID: 24633917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Heart. 2014 Jul;100(13):1031-6. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2013-304598. Epub 2014
Mar  14.

The cost effectiveness of ivabradine in the treatment of chronic heart failure 
from the U.K. National Health Service perspective.

Griffiths A(1), Paracha N(1), Davies A(1), Branscombe N(2), Cowie MR(3), 
Sculpher M(4).

Author information:
(1)ICON Health Economics, Oxford, UK.
(2)Servier Laboratories Ltd, Suresnes, France.
(3)Imperial College London, Royal Brompton Hospital, London, UK.
(4)ICON Health Economics, Oxford, UK Centre for Health Economics, University of 
York, York, UK.

Comment in
    Heart. 2014 Jul;100(13):991-2.

OBJECTIVE: Ivabradine, a specific heart rate lowering therapy, has been shown in 
a randomised placebo-controlled study, Systolic HF Treatment with the If 
Inhibitor Ivabradine Trial (SHIfT), to significantly reduce the composite end 
point of cardiovascular death and hospitalisation for worsening heart failure 
(HF) in patients with systolic HF who are in sinus rhythm and with a heart rate 
≥70 bpm, when added to optimised medical therapy (HR: 0.82, 95% CI 0.75 to 0.90, 
p<0.0001). We assessed the cost effectiveness of ivabradine, from a UK National 
Health Service perspective, based on the results of SHIfT.
METHODS: A Markov model estimated the cost effectiveness of ivabradine compared 
with standard care for two cohorts of patients with HF (heart rate ≥75 bpm in 
line with the EU labelled indication; and heart rate ≥70 bpm in line with the 
SHIfT study population). Modelled outcomes included death, hospitalisation, 
quality of life and New York Heart Association class. Total costs and quality 
adjusted life years (QALYs) for ivabradine and standard care were estimated over 
a lifetime horizon.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per additional QALY for ivabradine plus standard 
care versus standard care has been estimated as £8498 for heart rate ≥75 bpm and 
£13 764 for heart rate ≥70 bpm. Ivabradine is expected to have a 95% chance of 
being cost-effective in the EU licensed population using the current National 
Institute for Health and Care Excellence cost effectiveness threshold of £20 000 
per QALY. These results were robust in sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: This economic evaluation suggests that the use of ivabradine is 
likely to be cost-effective in eligible patients with HF from a UK National 
Health Service perspective.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2013-304598
PMCID: PMC4078716
PMID: 24634022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Ecol Evol. 2014 Feb;4(4):417-26. doi: 10.1002/ece3.942. Epub 2014 Jan 20.

Inferences about population dynamics from count data using multistate models: a 
comparison to capture-recapture approaches.

Zipkin EF(1), Sillett TS(2), Grant EH(3), Chandler RB(4), Royle JA(1).

Author information:
(1)USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research Center 12100 Beech Forest Rd., Laurel, 
Maryland, 20708.
(2)Migratory Bird Center, Smithsonian Conservation Biology Institute, National 
Zoological Park MRC 5503, Washington, District of Columbia, 20013.
(3)USGS Patuxent Wildlife Research Center, Conte Anadromous Fish Laboratory 
Turners Falls, Massachusetts, 01376.
(4)Warnell School of Forestry and Natural Resources, University of Georgia 
Athens, Georgia.

Wildlife populations consist of individuals that contribute disproportionately 
to growth and viability. Understanding a population's spatial and temporal 
dynamics requires estimates of abundance and demographic rates that account for 
this heterogeneity. Estimating these quantities can be difficult, requiring 
years of intensive data collection. Often, this is accomplished through the 
capture and recapture of individual animals, which is generally only feasible at 
a limited number of locations. In contrast, N-mixture models allow for the 
estimation of abundance, and spatial variation in abundance, from count data 
alone. We extend recently developed multistate, open population N-mixture 
models, which can additionally estimate demographic rates based on an organism's 
life history characteristics. In our extension, we develop an approach to 
account for the case where not all individuals can be assigned to a state during 
sampling. Using only state-specific count data, we show how our model can be 
used to estimate local population abundance, as well as density-dependent 
recruitment rates and state-specific survival. We apply our model to a 
population of black-throated blue warblers (Setophaga caerulescens) that have 
been surveyed for 25 years on their breeding grounds at the Hubbard Brook 
Experimental Forest in New Hampshire, USA. The intensive data collection efforts 
allow us to compare our estimates to estimates derived from capture-recapture 
data. Our model performed well in estimating population abundance and 
density-dependent rates of annual recruitment/immigration. Estimates of local 
carrying capacity and per capita recruitment of yearlings were consistent with 
those published in other studies. However, our model moderately underestimated 
annual survival probability of yearling and adult females and severely 
underestimates survival probabilities for both of these male stages. The most 
accurate and precise estimates will necessarily require some amount of intensive 
data collection efforts (such as capture-recapture). Integrated population 
models that combine data from both intensive and extensive sources are likely to 
be the most efficient approach for estimating demographic rates at large spatial 
and temporal scales.

DOI: 10.1002/ece3.942
PMCID: PMC3936388
PMID: 24634726


626. ISRN Oncol. 2014 Jan 30;2014:736163. doi: 10.1155/2014/736163. eCollection
2014.

Prior-cancer diagnosis in men with nonmetastatic prostate cancer and the risk of 
prostate-cancer-specific and all-cause mortality.

Mirabeau-Beale K(1), Chen MH(2), D'Amico AV(3).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Radiation Oncology Program, Brigham and Woman's Hospital and 
Department of Radiation Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 75 Francis 
Street, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(2)Department of Statistics, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT 06269, USA.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Brigham and Women's Hospital and 
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, MA 02115, USA.

Purpose. We evaluated the impact a prior cancer diagnosis had on the risk of 
prostate-cancer-specific mortality (PCSM) and all-cause mortality (ACM) in men 
with PC. Methods. Using the SEER data registry, 166,104 men (median age: 66) 
diagnosed with PC between 2004 and 2007 comprised the study cohort. Competing 
risks and Cox regression were used to evaluate whether a prior cancer diagnosis 
impacted the risk of PCSM and ACM adjusting for known prognostic factors PSA 
level, age at and year of diagnosis, race, and whether PC treatment was 
curative, noncurative, or active surveillance (AS)/watchful waiting (WW). 
Results. At a median followup of 2.75 years, 12,453 men died: 3,809 (30.6%) from 
PC. Men with a prior cancer were followed longer, had GS 8 to 10 PC more often, 
and underwent WW/AS more frequently (P < 0.001). Despite these differences that 
should increase the risk of PCSM, the adjusted risk of PCSM was significantly 
decreased (AHR: 0.66 (95% CI: (0.45, 0.97); P = 0.033), while the risk of ACM 
was increased (AHR: 2.92 (95% CI: 2.64, 3.23); P < 0.001) in men with a prior 
cancer suggesting that competing risks accounted for the reduction in the risk 
of PCSM. Conclusion. An assessment of the impact that a prior cancer has on life 
expectancy is needed at the time of PC diagnosis to determine whether curative 
treatment for unfavorable-risk PC versus AS is appropriate.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/736163
PMCID: PMC3929377
PMID: 24634786


627. Ceska Gynekol. 2014 Jan;79(1):64-7.

[Ritgen maneuver and its modifications].

[Article in Czech]

Rušavý Z, Karbanová J, Bednářová B, Kališ V.

OBJECTIVE: To present the Ritgen maneuver, its original description as well as 
its most common modifications and to demonstrate the heterogenity of 
descriptions of the maneuver regarding its performance, purpose and published 
results.
DESIGN: A review article.
SETTING: Department of Gynecology and Obstetrics, Medical Faculty and University 
Hospital Pilsen, Charles University in Prague.
METHODS: A review article demonstrating the heterogeneity of Ritgen maneuver 
descriptions based on analysis of present and past obstetrical textbooks and 
journal articles.
CONCLUSION: At present there is a pursuit of finding and analysis of methods for 
obstetric perineal injury prevention, which could considerably improve quality 
of life of women after delivery. One of the possible mechanisms of perineal 
trauma reduction is to ensure that the fetal head passes with its smallest head 
circumference through the perineal structures. Already in the middle of the 19th 
century, von Ritgen devised a method allowing to facilitate and control the 
extension of the fetal head in the end of the second stage of labor. His method 
quickly spread all over the world, however, the description changed 
considerably. The Ritgen maneuver today means a variety often very different 
interventions. This review points out to the need of clarification of 
terminology, i.e. definition and classification of methods facilitating 
extension of the fetal head in the end of the second stage of labor.

PMID: 24635369 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Exp Clin Transplant. 2014 Mar;12 Suppl 1:126-8.

Hepatic angiosarcoma and liver transplant: a report of 2 cases with diagnostic 
difficulties.

Terzi A(1), Deniz EE, Haberal N, Moray G, Özdemir BH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Baskent University Faculty of Medicine, Ankara, 
Turkey.

Angiosarcoma is a rare primary malignant mesenchymal tumor of the liver. The 
prognosis of hepatic angiosarcoma is poor with an average life expectancy of 6 
months after diagnosis. Diagnosing hepatic angiosarcoma is challenging because 
of nondiagnostic liver biopsy or specious history and radiologic presentation. 
We report 2 cases with hepatic angiosarcoma which were diagnosed 
histopathologically in the native liver after liver transplant. One of 2 
patients was lost to follow-up, and another patient died of relapsing hepatic 
angiosarcoma 18 months after the liver transplant.

PMID: 24635809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Clin Ther. 2014 Apr 1;36(4):534-43. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2014.02.008.
Epub  2014 Mar 11.

Cost-utility analysis of dasatinib and nilotinib in patients with chronic 
myeloid leukemia refractory to first-line treatment with imatinib in Thailand.

Kulpeng W(1), Sompitak S(2), Jootar S(3), Chansung K(4), Teerawattananon Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Intervention and Technology Assessment Program, Ministry of Public 
Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand. Electronic address: wantanee.k@hitap.net.
(2)Health Intervention and Technology Assessment Program, Ministry of Public 
Health, Nonthaburi, Thailand.
(3)Bone Marrow Transplantation Program, Faculty of Medicine Ramathibodi 
Hospital, Mahidol University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(4)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, Khonkaen 
University, Khonkaen, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: Recently, the second-generation tyrosine kinase inhibitors dasatinib 
and nilotinib have emerged as alternative treatments in patients with chronic 
myeloid leukemia (CML) who are resistant to or intolerant of imatinib.
OBJECTIVE: This article aimed to assess the cost utility and budget impact of 
using dasatinib or nilotinib, rather than high-dose (800-mg/d) imatinib, in 
patients with chronic phase (CP) CML who are resistant to standard-dose 
(400-mg/d) imatinib in Thailand.
METHODS: A Markov simulation model was developed and used to estimate the 
lifetime costs and outcomes of treating patients aged ≥38 years with CP-CML. The 
efficacy parameters were synthesized from a systematic review. Utilities using 
the European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions tool and costs were obtained from the 
Thai CML population. Costs and outcomes were compared and presented as the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio in 2011 Thai baht (THB) per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses were performed to estimate parameter uncertainty.
RESULTS: From a societal perspective, treatment with dasatinib was found to 
yield more QALYs (2.13) at a lower cost (THB 1,631,331) per person than 
high-dose imatinib. Nilotinib treatment was also found to be more cost-effective 
than high-dose imatinib, producing an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
THB 83,328 per QALY gained. This treatment option also resulted in the highest 
number of QALYs gained of all of the treatment options. The costs of providing 
dasatinib, nilotinib, and high-dose imatinib were estimated at THB 5 billion, 
THB 6 billion, and THB 7 billion, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment with dasatinib or nilotinib is likely to be more 
cost-effective than treatment with high-dose imatinib in CP-CML patients who do 
not respond positively to standard-dose imatinib in the Thai context. Dasatinib 
was found to be more cost-effective than nilotinib.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2014.02.008
PMID: 24635968 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Value Health. 2014 Mar;17(2):183-95. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.11.012.

Core discrete event simulation model for the evaluation of health care 
technologies in major depressive disorder.

Vataire AL(1), Aballéa S(2), Antonanzas F(3), Roijen LH(4), Lam RW(5), McCrone 
P(6), Persson U(7), Toumi M(8).

Author information:
(1)Creativ-Ceutical, Paris, France. Electronic address: 
ava@creativ-ceutical.com.
(2)Creativ-Ceutical, Paris, France.
(3)University of La Rioja, Logrono, Spain.
(4)Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada.
(6)King's College, London, UK.
(7)The Swedish Institute for Health Economics, Lund, Sweden.
(8)University of Lyon, Lyon, France.

OBJECTIVE: A review of existing economic models in major depressive disorder 
(MDD) highlighted the need for models with longer time horizons that also 
account for heterogeneity in treatment pathways between patients. A core 
discrete event simulation model was developed to estimate health and cost 
outcomes associated with alternative treatment strategies.
METHODS: This model simulated short- and long-term clinical events (partial 
response, remission, relapse, recovery, and recurrence), adverse events, and 
treatment changes (titration, switch, addition, and discontinuation) over up to 
5 years. Several treatment pathways were defined on the basis of fictitious 
antidepressants with three levels of efficacy, tolerability, and price (low, 
medium, and high) from first line to third line. The model was populated with 
input data from the literature for the UK setting. Model outputs include time in 
different health states, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and costs from 
National Health Service and societal perspectives. The codes are open source.
RESULTS: Predicted costs and QALYs from this model are within the range of 
results from previous economic evaluations. The largest cost components from the 
payer perspective were physician visits and hospitalizations. Key parameters 
driving the predicted costs and QALYs were utility values, effectiveness, and 
frequency of physician visits. Differences in QALYs and costs between two 
strategies with different effectiveness increased approximately twofold when the 
time horizon increased from 1 to 5 years.
CONCLUSION: The discrete event simulation model can provide a more comprehensive 
evaluation of different therapeutic options in MDD, compared with existing 
Markov models, and can be used to compare a wide range of health care 
technologies in various groups of patients with MDD.

Copyright © 2014 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.11.012
PMID: 24636376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Value Health. 2014 Mar;17(2):205-14. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.12.007.

Long-term medical costs and life expectancy of acute myeloid leukemia: a 
probabilistic decision model.

Wang HI(1), Aas E(2), Howell D(3), Roman E(3), Patmore R(4), Jack A(5), Smith 
A(3).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology & Cancer Statistics Group, University of York, York, UK. 
Electronic address: Han-I.Wang@ecsg.york.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Health Management and Health Economics, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway.
(3)Epidemiology & Cancer Statistics Group, University of York, York, UK.
(4)Queens Centre for Oncology and Haematology, Castle Hill Hospital, Hull, UK.
(5)Haematological Malignancy Diagnostic Service, St James's University Hospital, 
Leeds, UK.

BACKGROUND: Acute myeloid leukemia (AML) can be diagnosed at any age and 
treatment, which can be given with supportive and/or curative intent, is 
considered expensive compared with that for other cancers. Despite this, no 
long-term predictive models have been developed for AML, mainly because of the 
complexities associated with this disease.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of the current study was to develop a model (based on a 
UK cohort) to predict cost and life expectancy at a population level.
METHODS: The model developed in this study combined a decision tree with several 
Markov models to reflect the complexity of the prognostic factors and treatments 
of AML. The model was simulated with a cycle length of 1 month for a time period 
of 5 years and further simulated until age 100 years or death. Results were 
compared for two age groups and five different initial treatment intents and 
responses. Transition probabilities, life expectancies, and costs were derived 
from a UK population-based specialist registry-the Haematological Malignancy 
Research Network (www.hmrn.org).
RESULTS: Overall, expected 5-year medical costs and life expectancy ranged from 
£8,170 to £81,636 and 3.03 to 34.74 months, respectively. The economic and 
health outcomes varied with initial treatment intent, age at diagnosis, trial 
participation, and study time horizon. The model was validated by using face, 
internal, and external validation methods. The results show that the model 
captured more than 90% of the empirical costs, and it demonstrated good fit with 
the empirical overall survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Costs and life expectancy of AML varied with patient 
characteristics and initial treatment intent. The robust AML model developed in 
this study could be used to evaluate new diagnostic tools/treatments, as well as 
enable policy makers to make informed decisions.

Copyright © 2014 International Society for Pharmacoeconomics and Outcomes 
Research (ISPOR). Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.12.007
PMID: 24636378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. Value Health. 2014 Mar;17(2):215-22. doi: 10.1016/j.jval.2013.12.008.

The timing and probability of treatment switch under cost uncertainty: an 
application to patients with gastrointestinal stromal tumor.

de Mello-Sampayo F(1).

Author information:
(1)ISCTE-IUL - Economics, Lisbon, Portugal. Electronic address: fdmso@iscte.pt.

BACKGROUND: Cost fluctuations render the outcome of any treatment switch 
uncertain, so that decision makers might have to wait for more information 
before optimally switching treatments, especially when the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained cannot be fully recovered later on.
OBJECTIVE: To analyze the timing of treatment switch under cost uncertainty.
METHODS: A dynamic stochastic model for the optimal timing of a treatment switch 
is developed and applied to a problem in medical decision taking, i.e. to 
patients with unresectable gastrointestinal stromal tumour (GIST).
RESULTS: The theoretical model suggests that cost uncertainty reduces expected 
net benefit. In addition, cost volatility discourages switching treatments. The 
stochastic model also illustrates that as technologies become less cost 
