Burch JB(1), Augustine AD(2), Frieden LA(3), Hadley E(4), Howcroft TK(5), 
Johnson R(6), Khalsa PS(7), Kohanski RA(8), Li XL(9), Macchiarini F(10), 
Niederehe G(11), Oh YS(12), Pawlyk AC(13), Rodriguez H(14), Rowland JH(15), Shen 
GL(16), Sierra F(17), Wise BC(18).

Author information:
(1)Center for Scientific Review, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, 
Maryland.
(2)Immunoregulation Section, Basic Immunology Branch, Division of Allergy, 
Immunology and Transplantation, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland.
(3)Research Training and Career Development Branch, National Institute of Dental 
and Craniofacial Research, Bethesda, Maryland.
(4)Division of Geriatrics and Clinical Gerontology, National Institute on Aging, 
Bethesda, Maryland.
(5)National Cancer Institute, NIH, Division of Cancer Biology, Bethesda, 
Maryland.
(6)Cancer Etiology Branch, DNA and Chromosome Aberrations Branch, Division of 
Cancer Biology, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.
(7)Division of Extramural Research, National Center for Complementary and 
Alternative Medicine, Bethesda, Maryland.
(8)Division of Aging Biology, National Institute on Aging, Bethesda, Maryland. 
kohanskir@mail.nih.gov.
(9)Laboratory of Signal Transduction, National Institute of Environmental Health 
Sciences, Research Triangle Park, North Carolina.
(10)Radiation and Nuclear Countermeasures, Program Division of Allergy, 
Immunology and Transplantation, National Institute of Allergy and Infectious 
Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland.
(11)Geriatrics and Aging Processes Research Branch, National Institute of Mental 
Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(12)Vascular Biology and Hypertension Branch, Division of Cardiovascular 
Sciences, National Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.
(13)Pharmacogenomics and Drug Discovery, National Institute of Diabetes and 
Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Division of Diabetes, Endocrinology, and 
Metabolic Diseases, Bethesda, Maryland.
(14)Office of Cancer Clinical Proteomics Research, Office of the Director and.
(15)Office of Cancer Survivorship, Division of Cancer Control and Population 
Sciences, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Maryland.
(16)Retinal Diseases Program, Division of Extramural Research, National Eye 
Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Maryland.
(17)Division of Aging Biology and.
(18)Neurobiology of Aging Branch, Division of Neuroscience, National Institute 
on Aging, Bethesda, Maryland.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1093/gerona/glu057.

Population aging is unprecedented, without parallel in human history, and the 
21st century will witness even more rapid aging than did the century just past. 
Improvements in public health and medicine are having a profound effect on 
population demographics worldwide. By 2017, there will be more people over the 
age of 65 than under age 5, and by 2050, two billion of the estimated nine 
billion people on Earth will be older than 60 (http://unfpa.org/ageingreport/). 
Although we can reasonably expect to live longer today than past generations 
did, the age-related disease burden we will have to confront has not changed. 
With the proportion of older people among the global population being now higher 
than at any time in history and still expanding, maintaining health into old age 
(or healthspan) has become a new and urgent frontier for modern medicine. 
Geroscience is a cross-disciplinary field focused on understanding the 
relationships between the processes of aging and age-related chronic diseases. 
On October 30-31, 2013, the trans-National Institutes of Health GeroScience 
Interest Group hosted a Summit to promote collaborations between the aging and 
chronic disease research communities with the goal of developing innovative 
strategies to improve healthspan and reduce the burden of chronic disease.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Gerontological Society of 
America 2014.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glu041
PMCID: PMC4036419
PMID: 24833579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Apr 14;20(14):3762-77. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v20.i14.3762.

Personalized surgical management of colorectal cancer in elderly population.

Ugolini G(1), Ghignone F(1), Zattoni D(1), Veronese G(1), Montroni I(1).

Author information:
(1)Giampaolo Ugolini, Federico Ghignone, Davide Zattoni, Giacomo Veronese, 
Isacco Montroni, Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of 
Bologna, Policlinico S. Orsola-Malpighi, 40138 Bologna, Italy.

Colorectal cancer (CRC) in the elderly is extremely common but only a few 
clinicians are familiar with the complexity of issues which present in the 
geriatric population. In this phase of the life cycle, treatment is frequently 
suboptimal. Despite the fact that, nowadays, older people tend to be healthier 
than in previous generations, surgical undertreatment is frequently encountered. 
On the other hand, surgical overtreatment in the vulnerable or frail patient can 
lead to unacceptable postoperative outcomes with high mortality or persistent 
disability. Unfortunately, due to the geriatric patient being traditionally 
excluded from randomized controlled trials for a variety of factors 
(heterogeneity, frailty, etc.), there is a dearth of evidence-based clinical 
guidelines for the management of these patients. The objective of this review 
was to summarize the most relevant clinical studies available in order to assist 
clinicians in the management of CRC in the elderly. More than in any other 
patient group, both surgical and non-surgical management strategies should be 
carefully individualized in the elderly population affected by CRC. Although 
cure and sphincter preservation are the primary goals, many other variables need 
to be taken into account, such as maintenance of cognitive status, independence, 
life expectancy and quality of life.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i14.3762
PMCID: PMC3983435
PMID: 24833841 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 May 14;20(18):5353-62. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v20.i18.5353.

Pros and cons of liver transplantation in human immunodeficiency virus infected 
recipients.

Baccarani U(1), Righi E(1), Adani GL(1), Lorenzin D(1), Pasqualucci A(1), 
Bassetti M(1), Risaliti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Umberto Baccarani, Gian Luigi Adani, Dario Lorenzin, Andrea Risaliti, Liver 
Transplant Unit, Department of Medical and Biological Sciences, University 
Hospital of Udine, 33100 Udine, Italy.

Before the introduction of combined highly active antiretroviral therapy, a 
positive human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) serological status represented an 
absolute contraindication for solid organ transplant (SOT). The advent of highly 
effective combined antiretroviral therapy in 1996 largely contributed to the 
increased demand for SOT in HIV-positive individuals due to increased patients' 
life expectancy associated with the increasing prevalence of end-stage liver 
disease (ESLD). Nowadays, liver failure represents a frequent cause of mortality 
in the HIV-infected population mainly due to coinfection with hepatitis viruses 
sharing the same way of transmission. Thus, liver transplantation (LT) 
represents a reasonable approach in HIV patients with stable infection and ESLD. 
Available data presently supports with good evidence the practice of LT in the 
HIV-positive population. Thus, the issue is no longer "whether it is correct to 
transplant HIV-infected patients", but "who are the patients who can be safely 
transplanted" and "when is the best time to perform LT". Indeed, the benefits of 
LT in HIV-infected patients, especially in terms of mid- and long-term patient 
and graft survivals, are strictly related to the patients' selection and to the 
correct timing for transplantation, especially when hepatitis C virus 
coinfection is present. Aim of this article is to review the pros and cons of LT 
in the cohort of HIV infected recipients.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i18.5353
PMCID: PMC4017050
PMID: 24833865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Cost Eff Resour Alloc. 2014 Apr 30;12:11. doi: 10.1186/1478-7547-12-11. 
eCollection 2014.

Cost-effectiveness of community vegetable gardens for people living with HIV in 
Zimbabwe.

Puett C(1), Salpéteur C(2), Lacroix E(3), Zimunya SD(4), Israël AD(2), Aït-Aïssa 
M(2).

Author information:
(1)Action Against Hunger, 247 West 37th Street, New York, NY 10018, USA.
(2)Action contre la Faim - France, 4 rue Niepce, 75 662 Paris Cedex 14, France.
(3)Action contre la Faim - France, 78-D Thanlwin Road, Bahan Township, Yangon, 
Myanmar.
(4)Action contre la Faim - France, 4356 Cnr Chibuku/Unity Road, Masvingo, 
Zimbabwe.

BACKGROUND: There is little evidence to date of the potential impact of 
vegetable gardens on people living with HIV (PLHIV), who often suffer from 
social and economic losses due to the disease. From 2008 through 2011, Action 
Contre la Faim France (ACF) implemented a project in Chipinge District, eastern 
Zimbabwe, providing low-input vegetable gardens (LIGs) to households of PLHIV. 
Program partners included Médecins du Monde, which provided medical support, and 
Zimbabwe's Agricultural Extension Service, which supported vegetable 
cultivation. A survey conducted at the end of the program found LIG participants 
to have higher Food Consumption Scores (FCS) and Household Dietary Diversity 
Scores (HDDS) relative to comparator households of PLHIV receiving other support 
programs. This study assessed the incremental cost-effectiveness of LIGs to 
improve FCS and HDDS of PLHIV compared to other support programs.
METHODS: This analysis used an activity-based cost model, and combined ACF 
accounting data with estimates of partner and beneficiary costs derived using an 
ingredients approach to build an estimate of total program resource use. A 
societal perspective was adopted to encompass costs to beneficiary households, 
including their opportunity costs and an estimate of their income earned from 
vegetable sales. Qualitative methods were used to assess program benefits to 
beneficiary households. Effectiveness data was taken from a previously-conducted 
survey.
RESULTS: Providing LIGs to PLHIV cost an additional 8,299 EUR per household with 
adequate FCS and 12,456 EUR per household with HDDS in the upper tertile, 
relative to comparator households of PLHIV receiving other support programs. 
Beneficiaries cited multiple tangible and intangible benefits from LIGs, and 
over 80% of gardens observed were still functioning more than one year after the 
program had finished.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost outcomes were 20-30 times Zimbabwe's per capita GDP, and 
unlikely to be affordable within government services. This analysis concludes 
that LIGs are not cost-effective or affordable relative to other interventions 
for improving health and nutrition status of PLHIV. Nonetheless, given the 
myriad benefits acquired by participant households, such programs hold important 
potential to improve quality of life and reduce stigma against PLHIV.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7547-12-11
PMCID: PMC4022439
PMID: 24834014


209. Nurs Times. 2014 Apr 16-22;110(16):16-7.

Management of idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis.

Duck A.

Idiopathic pulmonary fibrosis is a progressive interstitial lung disease; 
patients have a mean life expectancy of 2-4 years from diagnosis. This review 
summarises National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (2013a) guidance 
and identifies key priorities for patient care.

PMID: 24834600 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


210. J Investig Allergol Clin Immunol. 2014;24(2):72-9; quiz 2 p following 79.

Rapid drug desensitization for hypersensitivity reactions to chemotherapy and 
monoclonal antibodies in the 21st century.

Castells Guitart MC.

The frequency of hypersensitivity reactions (HSR) to drugs has risen in the last 
10 years owing to increased exposure to better and more allergenic medications 
including monoclonal antibodies. HSRs prevent patients from using their 
first-line therapy, leading to decreased quality of life and life expectancy. 
Although premedication with antihistamines, leukotriene blockers, and 
corticosteroids can protect against mild-to-moderate HSR, none of these 
medications has provided protection against anaphylaxis. Rapid drug 
desensitization is a treatment option for patients with HSR to their first-line 
medication that protects against anaphylaxis.Although the mechanisms of drug 
desensitization are not completely understood, in vitro mast cell models of IgE 
antigen desensitization have led to the design of safe and effective in vivo 
protocols aimed at protecting highly sensitized patients from hypersensitivity 
reactions and anaphylaxis. This review provides an insight into the mechanisms 
of IgE/mast cell desensitization, the principles and practice of drug 
desensitization, and an overview of the different desensitization protocols and 
their safety and efficacy profiles. Drug desensitization should only be 
performed by allergists, trained nurses, and experienced pharmacists, since this 
high-risk procedure involves reintroducing allergenic medication to highly 
sensitized patients, with the consequent potential for severe or fatal HSRs.

PMID: 24834769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Haemophilia. 2014 Nov;20(6):741-6. doi: 10.1111/hae.12450. Epub 2014 May 16.

Increased cancer risk in patients with haemophilia A: a nationwide 
population-based 14-year study in Taiwan.

Liu CJ(1), Yu YB, Teng CJ, Hung YP, Hu YW, Hong YC, Chen TJ, Chiou TJ, Tzeng CH, 
Hsu HC, Gau JP.

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology and Oncology, Department of Medicine, Taipei Veterans 
General Hospital, Taipei, Taiwan; School of Medicine, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei, Taiwan; Institute of Public Health, National Yang-Ming 
University, Taipei, Taiwan.

Haemostasis is associated with the development and dissemination of cancer. 
Whether cancer incidence is increased in haemophiliacs remains uncertain; thus, 
we aimed to further examine this issue. By using data from the National Health 
Insurance Research Database in Taiwan, we obtained a cohort of 683 patients with 
haemophilia A, and compared the incidence rate ratio (IRR) of cancer in this 
cohort with an age- and sex-matched control of 6830 patients. The log-rank test 
was used to compare Kaplan-Meier curve of the cumulative cancer incidence 
between two cohorts. Cox regressions were used to identify independent risk 
factors of cancer in the study patients. The cancer incidence of patients with 
haemophilia A was significantly higher compared to the control group (IRR 1.95, 
95% CI 1.18-3.09, P = 0.008) during the 14-year follow-up period. The 
non-lymphoma and non-liver cancer incidence in the haemophilia A cohort remained 
higher than that of the matched control (P = 0.050 by the log-rank test). The 
multivariate Cox proportional hazards analysis indicated that age (per year, HR 
1.09, 95% CI 1.06-1.12, P < 0.001) was the only significant risk factor for 
cancer development in haemophilia patients. Patients with haemophilia A had 
higher cancer incidence than the age- and sex-matched patients, especially for 
the elderly. With increasing life expectancy for haemophiliacs, physicians 
should be aware of their cancer development.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12450
PMID: 24834860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. Exp Gerontol. 2014 Sep;57:47-56. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2014.05.005. Epub 2014
May  14.

Glycerol extends lifespan of Brachionus manjavacas (Rotifera) and protects 
against stressors.

Snell TW(1), Johnston RK(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332-0230, 
USA. Electronic address: terry.snell@biology.gatech.edu.
(2)School of Biology, Georgia Institute of Technology, Atlanta, GA 30332-0230, 
USA.

Diet has profound effects on animal longevity and manipulation of nutrient 
sensing pathways is one of the primary interventions capable of lifespan 
extension. This often is done through caloric restriction (CR) and a variety of 
CR mimics have been identified that produce life extending effects without 
adhering to the rigorous CR dietary regimen. Glycerol is a dietary supplement 
capable mimicking CR by shifting metabolism away from glycolysis and towards 
oxidative phosphorylation. Glycerol supplementation has a number of beneficial 
effects, including lifespan extension, improved stress resistance, and enhanced 
locomotory and mitochondria activity in older age classes. Using rotifers as a 
model, we show that supplements of 150-300mM glycerol produced 40-50% extension 
of mean lifespan. This effect was produced by raising glycerol concentration 
only three times higher than its baseline concentration in rotifer tissues. 
Glycerol supplementation decreased rotifer reliance on glycolysis and reduced 
the pro-aging effects of glucose. Glycerol also acted as a chemical chaperone, 
mitigating damage by protein aggregation. Glycerol treatment improved rotifer 
swimming performance in older age classes and maintained more mitochondrial 
activity. Glycerol treatment provided increased resistance to starvation, heat, 
oxidation, and osmotic stress, but not UV stress. When glycerol was 
co-administered with the hexokinase inhibitor 2-deoxyglucose, the lifespan 
extending effect of glycerol was enhanced. Co-administration of glycerol with 
inhibitors like 2-deoxyglucose can lower their efficacious doses, thereby 
reducing their toxic side effects.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2014.05.005
PMCID: PMC4149915
PMID: 24835191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. IEEE J Biomed Health Inform. 2014 Nov;18(6):1788-95. doi: 
10.1109/JBHI.2014.2324293. Epub 2014 May 14.

Exploiting wearable goniometer technology for motion sensing gloves.

Carbonaro N, Dalle Mura G, Lorussi F, Paradiso R, De Rossi D, Tognetti A.

This paper presents an innovative wearable kinesthetic glove realized with 
knitted piezoresistive fabric (KPF) sensor technology. The glove is conceived to 
capture hand movement and gesture by using KPF in a double-layer configuration 
working as angular sensors (electrogoniometers). The sensing glove prototype is 
endowed by three KPF goniometers, used to track flexion and extension movement 
of metacarpophalangeal joint of thumb, index, and middle fingers. The glove is 
devoted to the continuous monitoring of patients during their daily-life 
activities, in particular for stroke survivors during their rehabilitation. The 
prototype performances have been evaluated in comparison with an optical 
tracking system considered as a gold standard both for relieving static and 
dynamic posture and gesture of the hand. The introduced prototype has shown very 
interesting figures of merit. The angular error, evaluated through the standard 
Bland Altman analysis, has been estimated in ±3° which is slightly less accurate 
than commercial electrogoniometers. Moreover, a new conceptual prototype design, 
preliminary evaluated within this study, is presented and discussed in order to 
solve actual limitations in terms of number and type of sensor connections, 
avoiding mechanical constraints given by metallic inextensible wires and 
improving user comfort.

DOI: 10.1109/JBHI.2014.2324293
PMID: 24835230 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Ophthalmology. 2014 Sep;121(9):1720-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.03.029.
Epub  2014 May 15.

Cost evaluation of surgical and pharmaceutical options in treatment for 
vitreomacular adhesions and macular holes.

Chang JS(1), Smiddy WE(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami 
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida.
(2)Department of Ophthalmology, Bascom Palmer Eye Institute, University of Miami 
Miller School of Medicine, Miami, Florida. Electronic address: 
wsmiddy@med.miami.edu.

Comment in
    Ophthalmology. 2015 May;122(5):e29-30.
    Ophthalmology. 2015 May;122(5):e29.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate cost-effectiveness and cost utilities for treatment 
options for vitreomacular adhesions (VMAs) and full-thickness macular holes 
(MHs).
DESIGN: A Markov model of cost-effectiveness and utility.
PARTICIPANTS: There were no participants.
METHODS: Outcomes of published clinical trials (index studies) of surgical 
treatment of VMAs and MHs and a prospective, multicenter clinical trial of 
pharmaceutical vitreolysis with intravitreal ocriplasmin with saline control 
were used to generate a model for costs of treatment and visual benefits. All 
techniques were assumed to result in a 2.5-line visual benefit if anatomy was 
resolved. Markov analysis, with cost data from the Centers for Medicare and 
Medicaid Services, was used to calculate imputed costs for each primary 
treatment modality in a facility setting, with surgery performed in a hospital 
serving as the highest end of the range and nonfacility setting with surgery 
performed in an ambulatory surgery center serving as the lowest end of the 
range.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Imputed costs of therapy, cost per line saved, cost per 
line-year saved, cost per quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: When pars plana vitrectomy (PPV) was selected as the primary procedure, 
the overall imputed cost ranged from $5802 to $7931. The cost per line was $2368 
to $3237, the cost per line-year saved was $163 to $233 and the cost per QALY 
was $5444 to $7442. If intravitreal injection of ocriplasmin was the primary 
procedure, the overall imputed cost was $8767 to $10 977. The cost per line 
ranged from $3549 to $4456, the cost per line-year saved was $245 to $307, and 
the cost per QALY was between $8159 and $10 244. If intravitreal saline 
injection was used as a primary procedure, the overall imputed cost was $5828 to 
$8098. The cost per line was $2374 to $3299, the cost per line-year saved was 
$164 to $227, and the cost per QALY was $5458 to $7583.
CONCLUSIONS: As a primary procedure, PPV was the most cost-effective therapy in 
this model. The other treatments had similar costs per QALY saved and compare 
favorably with costs of therapy for other retinal diseases.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.03.029
PMCID: PMC4145013
PMID: 24835758 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Aug;73:127-35. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.05.004. Epub 2014 May 15.

S-linolenoyl glutathione intake extends life-span and stress resistance via 
Sir-2.1 upregulation in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Cascella R(1), Evangelisti E(1), Zampagni M(1), Becatti M(1), D'Adamio G(2), 
Goti A(2), Liguri G(1), Fiorillo C(1), Cecchi C(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental and Clinical Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Florence, 50134 Florence, Italy.
(2)Department of Chemistry "Ugo Schiff," University of Florence, 50019 Sesto 
Fiorentino, Florence, Italy.
(3)Department of Experimental and Clinical Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Florence, 50134 Florence, Italy. Electronic address: cristina.cecchi@unifi.it.

Oxidative stress has a prominent role in life-span regulation of living 
organisms. One of the endogenous free radical scavenger systems is associated 
with glutathione (GSH), the most abundant nonprotein thiol in mammalian cells, 
acting as a major reducing agent and in antioxidant defense by maintaining a 
tight control over redox status. We have recently designed a series of novel 
S-acyl-GSH derivatives capable of preventing amyloid oxidative stress and 
cholinergic dysfunction in Alzheimer disease models, upon an increase in GSH 
intake. In this study we show that the longevity of the wild-type N2 
Caenorhabditis elegans strain was significantly enhanced by dietary 
supplementation with linolenoyl-SG (lin-SG) thioester with respect to the ethyl 
ester of GSH, linolenic acid, or vitamin E. RNA interference analysis and 
activity inhibition assay indicate that life-span extension was mediated by the 
upregulation of Sir-2.1, a NAD-dependent histone deacetylase ortholog of 
mammalian SIRT1. In particular, lin-SG-mediated overexpression of Sir-2.1 
appears to be related to the Daf-16 (FoxO) pathway. Moreover, the lin-SG 
derivative protects N2 worms from the paralysis and oxidative stress induced by 
Aβ/H2O2 exposure. Overall, our findings put forward lin-SG thioester as an 
antioxidant supplement triggering sirtuin upregulation, thus opening new future 
perspectives for healthy aging or delayed onset of oxidative-related diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.05.004
PMID: 24835770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2015 Apr;70(4):444-53. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glu059. Epub 2014 May 15.

The yeast forkhead HCM1 controls life span independent of calorie restriction.

Maoz N(1), Gabay O(1), Waldman Ben-Asher H(1), Cohen HY(2).

Author information:
(1)The Mina & Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan, Israel.
(2)The Mina & Everard Goodman Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat-Gan, Israel. Haim.Cohen@biu.ac.il.

Regulation of life span by members of the forkhead transcription factor family 
of proteins is one of the most highly investigated pathways in the field of 
aging. Nevertheless, despite the existence of forkhead family homologues in 
yeast, our knowledge of these proteins' role in yeast longevity is limited. 
Here, we show that yeast Hcm1p forkhead is the closest homologue of the worm 
PHA-4 forkhead, which regulates Caenorhabditis elegans life span. Overexpressing 
the yeast forkhead HCM1 or its deficiency resulted in a significant extension or 
reduction in yeast replicative life span, respectively. HCM1 regulates stress 
resistance, significantly increases the mRNA levels of several stress response 
genes including the catalase enzymes CTA1 and CTT1, and positively regulates 
life span independently of calorie restriction. Thus, HCM1 is a key regulator of 
life span, through a mechanism independent of calorie restriction.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glu059
PMID: 24835838 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2014 Aug;15(8):570-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jamda.2014.04.004.
Epub  2014 May 15.

Continuous sedation until death with or without the intention to hasten death--a 
nationwide study in nursing homes in Flanders, Belgium.

Rys S(1), Deschepper R(2), Mortier F(3), Deliens L(4), Bilsen J(2).

Author information:
(1)Mental Health and Wellbeing Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 
Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address: samrys@vub.ac.be.
(2)Mental Health and Wellbeing Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 
Brussels, Belgium.
(3)End-of-Life Care Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel & Ghent 
University, Brussels, Belgium; Bioethics Institute Ghent, Ghent University, 
Ghent, Belgium.
(4)End-of-Life Care Research Group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel & Ghent 
University, Brussels, Belgium; Department of Public and Occupational Health, 
EMGO Institute for Health and Care Research, Expertise Centre for Palliative 
Care, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Am Med Dir Assoc. 2014 Aug;15(8):541-3.

OBJECTIVES: Continuous sedation until death (CSD), the removal of consciousness 
of an incurably ill patient until death, has become a controversial practice. 
Some consider CSD a palliative treatment, whereas others claim that CSD is 
frequently used with the intention to hasten death. In nursing homes in 
Flanders, the rate of CSD has tripled over the past decade, whereas legal 
euthanasia remains a rare practice. This study wants to investigate to what 
extent CSD is used to hasten death (CSD+) and to identify possible associated 
factors.
DESIGN: Nationwide cross-sectional retrospective survey, conducted in 2012.
SETTING: Nursing homes in Flanders, Belgium.
PARTICIPANTS: Coordinating and advisory physicians of all nursing homes in 
Flanders (n = 660).
MEASUREMENTS: Physician reports of their most recent patient treated with CSD.
RESULTS: The response rate was 57.3%, and 159 of the 378 responding physicians 
reported a case of CSD (42.1%). According to the reported intentions involved, 
62.2% of these cases were considered CSD- cases (no life-shortening pursued), 
whereas 37.8% were labeled CSD+ (life-shortening pursued). Physician factors 
such as experience in end-of-life care, palliative care training, training in 
sedation, or knowledge of sedation guidelines did not affect the outcome 
distribution (CSD- or CSD+). In CSD+, the patient has a longer life expectancy, 
is more competent, is clearly longing for death, and requests for euthanasia 
more frequently.
CONCLUSIONS: In nursing homes in Flanders, CSD is frequently used to hasten the 
patient's death. In some cases, CSD can even be considered a substitute for 
legal euthanasia.

Copyright © 2014 AMDA – The Society for Post-Acute and Long-Term Care Medicine. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jamda.2014.04.004
PMID: 24835856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Health Policy. 2015 Feb;119(2):164-73. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2014.04.013.
 Epub 2014 Apr 30.

Value judgments for priority setting criteria in genetic testing: a discrete 
choice experiment.

Severin F(1), Hess W(2), Schmidtke J(3), Mühlbacher A(4), Rogowski W(5).

Author information:
(1)Helmholtz Zentrum München, German Research Center for Environmental Health 
(GmbH), Institute of Health Economics and Health Care Management (IGM), 
Ingolstädter Landstraße 1, 85764 Neuherberg, Germany. Electronic address: 
franziska.severin@helmholtz-muenchen.de.
(2)Lund University, Department of Economics and Centre for Economic Demography, 
P.O. Box 7082, S-220 07 Lund, Sweden. Electronic address: 
wolfgang.hess@nek.lu.se.
(3)Hannover Medical School, Institute for Human Genetics, Carl-Neuberg-Strasse 
1, 30625 Hanover, Germany. Electronic address: Schmidtke.Joerg@mh-hannover.de.
(4)Hochschule Neubrandenburg, IGM - Institut Gesundheitsökonomie und 
Medizinmanagement, Brodaer Straße 2, 17033 Neubrandenburg, Germany. Electronic 
address: muehlbacher@me.com.
(5)Ludwig Maximilians University, Institute and Outpatient Clinic for 
Occupational, Social and Environmental Medicine, Clinical Center, Ziemssenstraße 
1, 80336 Munich, Germany; Ludwig Maximilians University, Institute and 
Outpatient Clinic for Occupational, Social and Environmental Medicine, Clinical 
Center, Ziemssenstraße 1, 80336 Munich, Germany. Electronic address: 
rogowski@helmholtz-muenchen.de.

As our understanding of genetics has increased, so has the number of genetic 
tests that have entered clinical practice. Given the need of many European 
health care systems to contain costs, the question of how to prioritise genetic 
tests fairly has become an emerging concern. This study uses a discrete-choice 
experiment to assess the value judgements of clinical geneticists, patient 
representatives and other stakeholders regarding the prioritisation of genetic 
tests. The respondents chose between two hypothetical scenarios that differed in 
severity of the disease, risk of the disease, aim of the test, medical benefit 
of the test, and costs of the test. Standard logit models and mixed effects 
models were used to estimate the weights different stakeholders attached to 
attribute levels. Responses from 594 participants were analysed. The most highly 
valued attribute levels were a proven medical benefit of the test, high risk of 
having the disease and low costs of the test. Results also showed that rankings 
differ between clinical geneticists and other stakeholders. The priority weights 
determined within this study can inform the policy debate and improve the 
consistency of prioritisation in genetics. Further stakeholder deliberation is 
needed to explore their most appropriate use in decision practice.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2014.04.013
PMID: 24836022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Prog Biophys Mol Biol. 2014 Nov-Dec;116(2-3):203-11. doi: 
10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2014.04.001. Epub 2014 May 15.

An improvement to the ligand optimisation method (LOM) for measuring the 
apparent dissociation constant and ligand purity in Ca2+ and Mg2+ buffer 
solutions.

McGuigan JA(1), Kay JW(2), Elder HY(2).

Author information:
(1)Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences Faculty, University of Glasgow, G12 
8QQ, UK. Electronic address: jasmcguigan@yahoo.com.
(2)Medical, Veterinary and Life Sciences Faculty, University of Glasgow, G12 
8QQ, UK.

In Ca(2+)/Mg(2+) buffers the calculated ionised concentrations ([X(2+)]) can 
vary by up to a factor of seven. Since there are no defined standards it is 
impossible to check calculated [X(2+)], making measurement essential. The ligand 
optimisation method (LOM) is an accurate method to measure [X(2+)] in 
Ca(2+)/Mg(2+) buffers; independent estimation of ligand purity extends the 
method to pK(/) < 4. To simplify calculation, Excel programs ALE and AEC were 
compiled for LOM and its extension. This paper demonstrates that the slope of 
the electrode in the pX range 2.000-3.301 deviates from Nernstian behaviour as 
it depends on the value of the lumped interference, Σ. ALE was modified to 
include this effect; this modified program SALE, and the programs ALE and AEC 
were used on simulated data for Ca(2+)-EGTA and Mg(2+)-ATP buffers, to calculate 
electrode and buffer characteristics as a function of Σ. Ca(2+)-electrodes have 
a Σ < 10(-6) mol/l and there was no difference amongst the three methods. The Σ 
for Mg(2+)-electrodes lies between 10(-5) and 1.5 (∗) 10(-5) mol/l and 
calculated [Mg(2+)] with ALE were around 3% less than the true value. SALE and 
AEC correctly predicted [Mg(2+)]. SALE was used to recalculate K(/) and pK(/) on 
measured data for Ca(2+)-EGTA and Mg(2+)-EDTA buffers. These results 
demonstrated that it is pK(/) that is normally distributed. Until defined 
standards are available, [X(2+)] in Ca(2+)/Mg(2+) buffers have to be measured. 
The most appropriate method is to use Ca(2+)/Mg(2) electrodes combined with the 
Excel programs SALE or AEC.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pbiomolbio.2014.04.001
PMID: 24836054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Orv Hetil. 2014 May 25;155(21):817-21. doi: 10.1556/OH.2014.29838.

[Physical activity diminishes aging-related decline of physical and cognitive 
performance].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Apor P(1), Babai L(2).

Author information:
(1)Semmelweis Egyetem Testnevelés- és Sporttudományi Kar Budapest Sportkórház 
Budapest Czakó u. 9. 1016.
(2)Primamedika Budapest.

Aging-related decline of muscle force, walking speed, locomotor coordination, 
aerobic capacity and endurance exert prognostic impact on life expectancy. 
Proper use of training may diminish the aging process and it may improve the 
quality of life of elderly persons. This paper provides a brief summary on the 
impact of training on aging-related decline of physical and cognitive functions.

Publisher: A korosodással gyengülő izomerő, a járásgyorsaság, a 
mozgáskivitelezés és a kardiorespiratorikus teljesítőképesség prognosztikus 
jelentőséggel bír az életkilátásokra vonatkozóan. A jobb életminőség, az önálló 
életvitel lehetőségének fenntartása érdekében időskorban is használni, „edzeni” 
kell a testi (és szellemi) képességeket. Az összefoglaló közlemény a legfrissebb 
szakirodalmi adatokat tekinti át. Orv. Hetil., 2014, 155(21), 817–821.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2014.29838
PMID: 24836316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Epilepsy Behav. 2014 Jul;36:12-7. doi: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.04.011. Epub
2014  May 16.

Valuations of epilepsy-specific health states: a comparison of patients with 
epilepsy and the general population.

Mulhern B(1), Rowen D(2), Snape D(3), Jacoby A(3), Marson T(4), Hughes D(5), 
Baker G(4), Brazier J(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Regent Court, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. Electronic address: 
b.mulhern@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Regent Court, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK.
(3)Institute of Psychology, Health and Society, University of Liverpool, UK.
(4)Division of Neurological Sciences, University of Liverpool, UK.
(5)Centre for Health Economics and Medicines Evaluation, Bangor University, UK.

AIMS: Utility values that can be used in the economic evaluation of treatments 
for epilepsy can be elicited from the general population and the patient 
population, but it is unclear how the health state values differ. The aim of 
this study is to compare the preferences of the general population and a sample 
of people with epilepsy for health states described by the NEWQOL-6D QALY 
measure.
METHODS: The Time Trade Off preference elicitation technique was used to value 
eight NEWQOL-6D health states. The general population sample was recruited and 
interviewed in their homes, and the sample with epilepsy was recruited and 
interviewed in an epilepsy service in North West England. Descriptive analysis 
and regression modeling were used to compare health state values across the 
populations.
RESULTS: A sample of 70 people with epilepsy and a sample of 60 members of the 
general population were included. The populations differed across a range of 
background characteristics, but there were limited differences between the 
health state values. Patients provided significantly higher (better) values for 
the most severe health state described by the NEWQOL-6D (p<0.01) and 
nonsignificant higher values for states with intermediate severity. The general 
population health state value was only higher for the best health state 
described by the NEWQOL-6D.
CONCLUSIONS: The similarities in the patient and general population values for 
NEWQOL-6D health states suggest that the use of the general population utility 
weights for the estimation of QALYs in the economic evaluation of epilepsy 
interventions is appropriate and largely representative of patient preferences.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yebeh.2014.04.011
PMID: 24836527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. J Phys Act Health. 2015 Feb;12(2):224-31. doi: 10.1123/jpah.2013-0167.

Does age modify the cost-effectiveness of community-based physical activity 
interventions?

Roux L, Pratt M, Lee IM, Bazzarre T, Buchner D.

BACKGROUND: Community-based efforts to promote physical activity (PA) in adults 
have been found to be cost-effective in general, but it is unknown if this is 
true in middle-age specifically. Age group-specific economic evaluations could 
help inform the design and delivery of better and more tailored PA promotion.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to estimate the cost-effectiveness (CE) of 
7 exemplar community-level interventions to promote PA recommended by the Guide 
to Community Preventive Services, over a 20-year horizon. The CE of these 
interventions in 25- to 64-year-old adults was compared with their CE in 
middle-aged adults, aged 50 to 64 years. The robustness of the results was 
examined through sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: Cost/QALY (quality-adjusted life year) of the evaluated interventions 
in 25- to 64-year-olds ranged from $42,456/QALY to $145,868/QALY. Interventions 
were more cost-effective in middle-aged adults, with CE ratios 38% to 47% lower 
than in 25- to 64-year-old adults. Sensitivity analyses showed greater than a 
90% probability that the true CE of 4 of the 7 interventions was below 
$125,000/QALY in adults aged 50 to 64 years.
CONCLUSION: The exemplar PA promotion interventions evaluated appeared to be 
especially cost-effective for middle-aged adults. Prioritizing such efforts to 
this age group is a good use of societal resources.

DOI: 10.1123/jpah.2013-0167
PMCID: PMC6520650
PMID: 24836847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. J Clin Epidemiol. 2014 Sep;67(9):1035-43. doi:
10.1016/j.jclinepi.2014.04.005.  Epub 2014 May 15.

The agreement between proxy and self-completed EQ-5D for care home residents was 
better for index scores than individual domains.

Devine A(1), Taylor SJ(2), Spencer A(3), Diaz-Ordaz K(4), Eldridge S(2), 
Underwood M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, 15-17 Tavistock Place, London, United Kingdom WC1H 9SH. 
Electronic address: angela.devine@lshtm.ac.uk.
(2)Queen Mary University of London, 58 Turner Street, London, United Kingdom, E1 
2AB.
(3)University of Exeter Medical School, Veysey Building, Salmon Pool Lane, 
Exeter, United Kingdom, EX2 4SN.
(4)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, 15-17 Tavistock Place, London, United Kingdom WC1H 9SH.
(5)Warwick Medical School, Coventry, United Kingdom, CV4 7AL.

OBJECTIVE: Proxy measures are an alternative source of data for care home 
residents who are unable to complete the health utility measure, but the 
agreement levels between residents and care home staff for the EQ-5D have not 
been investigated previously. The objective of the present study was to examine 
the inter-rater agreement levels for the reporting of EQ-5D by care home 
residents and staff, adjusting for the impact of clustering.
STUDY DESIGN AND SETTING: The data consist of EQ-5D scores for 565 pairs of care 
home residents and proxies and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for 248 
pairs. Cluster-adjusted agreement was compared for the domains, index scores, 
and QALYs from the EQ-5D. Factors influencing index score agreement are also 
described.
RESULTS: The results show poor to fair agreement at the domain level 
(cluster-adjusted Kappa -0.03 to 0.26) and moderate agreement at the score level 
(cluster-adjusted intra-class correlation coefficient [ICC] 0.44-0.50) and for 
QALYs (cluster-adjusted ICC 0.59). A higher likelihood of depression and lower 
cognitive impairment were both associated with smaller discrepancy between proxy 
and self-completed scores.
CONCLUSION: Proxies appear to be an acceptable source of data for index scores 
and QALYs but may be less reliable if individual domains are considered.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jclinepi.2014.04.005
PMCID: PMC4126106
PMID: 24837298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Vaccine. 2014 Jun 24;32(30):3732-9. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.05.007. Epub
 2014 May 15.

Mind the gaps: what's missing from current economic evaluations of universal HPV 
vaccination?

Marsh K(1), Chapman R(1), Baggaley RF(2), Largeron N(3), Bresse X(4).

Author information:
(1)Evidera, Metro Building, 6th Floor, 1 Butterwick, London W6 8DL, United 
Kingdom.
(2)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London WC1E 
HT, United Kingdom.
(3)Sanofi Pasteur MSD, 8, rue Jonas Salk, 69367 Lyon Cedex 07, France. 
Electronic address: NLargeron@spmsd.com.
(4)Sanofi Pasteur MSD, 8, rue Jonas Salk, 69367 Lyon Cedex 07, France.

BACKGROUND: Since the original licensing of human papilloma virus (HPV) 
vaccination for women, evidence is accumulating of its effectiveness in 
preventing HPV-related conditions in men, and universal vaccination (vaccinating 
men and women) is now recommended in some countries. Several models of the 
cost-effectiveness of universal HPV vaccination have been published, but results 
have been mixed. This article assesses the extent to which economic studies have 
captured the range of values associated with universal HPV vaccination, and how 
this influences estimates of its cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: Eight published economic evaluations of universal HPV vaccination were 
reviewed to identify which of the values associated with universal HPV 
vaccination were included in each analysis.
RESULTS: Studies of the cost-effectiveness of universal HPV vaccination capture 
only a fraction of the values generated. Most studies focused on impacts on 
health and health system cost, and only captured these partially. A range of 
values is excluded from most studies, including impacts on productivity, patient 
time and costs, carers and family costs, and broader social values such as the 
right to access treatment. Further, those studies that attempted to capture 
these values only did so partially.
DISCUSSION: Decisions to invest in universal HPV vaccination need to be based on 
a complete assessment of the value that it generates. This is not provided by 
existing economic evaluations. Further work is required to understand this 
value. First, research is required to understand how HPV-related health outcomes 
impact on society including, for instance, their impact on productivity. Second, 
consideration should be given to alternative approaches to capture this broader 
set of values in a manner useful to decisions-makers, such as multi-criteria 
decision analysis.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.05.007
PMID: 24837538 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Environ Sci Pollut Res Int. 2014 Sep;21(17):10419-31. doi: 
10.1007/s11356-014-2932-6. Epub 2014 May 17.

Two organobromines trigger lifespan, growth, reproductive and transcriptional 
changes in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Saul N(1), Baberschke N, Chakrabarti S, Stürzenbaum SR, Lieke T, Menzel R, Jonáš 
A, Steinberg CE.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Freshwater and Stress Ecology, Humboldt-Universität zu 
Berlin, Späthstr. 80/81, 12437, Berlin, Germany, nadines1976@aol.com.

Organobromines of natural and artificial origin are omnipresent in aquatic and 
terrestrial environments. Although it is well established that exposure to high 
concentrations of organobromines are harmful to vertebrates, few studies have 
investigated the effect of environmentally realistic concentrations on 
invertebrates. Here, the nematode Caenorhabditis elegans was challenged with two 
organobromines, namely dibromoacetic acid (DBAA) and tetrabromobisphenol-A 
(TBBP), and monitored for changes in different life trait variables and global 
gene expression patterns. Fifty micromolar DBAA stimulated the growth and 
lifespan of the nematodes; however, the onset of reproduction was delayed. In 
contrast, TBBP changed the lifespan in a hormetic fashion, namely it was 
stimulated at 0.1 μM but impaired at 50 μM. The reproductive performance was 
even impaired at 2 μM TBBP. Moreover, DBAA could not reduce the toxic effect of 
TBBP when applied as a mixture. A whole-genome DNA microarray revealed that both 
organobromines curtailed signalling and neurological processes. Furthermore on 
the transcription level, 50 μM TBBP induced proteolysis and DBAA up-regulated 
biosynthesis and metabolism. To conclude, even naturally occurring 
concentrations of organobromines can influence the biomolecular responses and 
life cycle traits in C. elegans. The life extension is accompanied by negative 
changes in the reproductive behaviour, which is crucial for the stability of 
populations. Thus, this paper highlights that the effects of exposure to 
moderate, environmentally realistic concentrations of organobromines should not 
be ignored.

DOI: 10.1007/s11356-014-2932-6
PMID: 24838126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. BMJ. 2014 May 16;348:g3369. doi: 10.1136/bmj.g3369.

Global life expectancy has risen, reports WHO.

Gulland A(1).

Author information:
(1)London.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.g3369
PMID: 24838354 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Surg Today. 2015 May;45(5):527-36. doi: 10.1007/s00595-014-0902-8. Epub 2014
May  20.

Transcatheter aortic valve implantation.

Sawa Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, Osaka University Graduate School of 
Medicine, 2-2 Yamada-Oka, Suita, Osaka, 565-0871, Japan, 
sawa@surg1.med.osaka-u.ac.jp.

With the improvement in the overall life expectancy, the incidence of aortic 
stenosis has been increasing. Although aortic valve replacement is a standard 
therapy, many patients do not undergo surgery for various reasons, including 
advanced age or the presence of multiple comorbidities. Transcatheter aortic 
valve implantation (TAVI) has been proposed as a less invasive and equally 
effective treatment for inoperable or high-risk symptomatic aortic stenosis. 
Numerous rigorous global clinical trials, as well as a pivotal clinical trial in 
Japan, have been conducted. In this review, we provide data on the development 
of TAVI worldwide and discuss the prospects for TAVI in Japan.

DOI: 10.1007/s00595-014-0902-8
PMID: 24838694 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Hand (N Y). 2014 Jun;9(2):166-74. doi: 10.1007/s11552-013-9597-3.

Psychometric properties of health-related quality of life instruments in 
patients undergoing palmar fasciectomy for dupuytren's disease: a prospective 
study.

Thoma A(1), Kaur MN(2), Ignacy TA(3), Levis C(4), Martin S(4), Duku E(5), Haines 
T(6).

Author information:
(1)Division of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, McMaster University, 1280 
Main Street West, Hamilton, ON Canada ; Surgical Outcomes Research Centre, 
Department of Surgery, McMaster University, 1280 Main Street West, Hamilton, ON 
Canada ; Department of Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, McMaster 
University, 1280 Main Street West, Hamilton, ON Canada ; Suite 101, 206 James 
Street South, Hamilton, ON Canada L8P 3A9.
(2)Division of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, McMaster University, 1280 
Main Street West, Hamilton, ON Canada ; Surgical Outcomes Research Centre, 
Department of Surgery, McMaster University, 1280 Main Street West, Hamilton, ON 
Canada.
(3)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, 144 College St, 
Toronto, ON Canada.
(4)Division of Plastic Surgery, Department of Surgery, McMaster University, 1280 
Main Street West, Hamilton, ON Canada.
(5)Offord Centre for Child Studies, Department of Psychiatry and Behavioural 
Neurosciences, McMaster University, 1280 Main Street West, Hamilton, ON Canada.
(6)Department of Clinical Epidemiology & Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
1280 Main Street West, Hamilton, ON Canada.

BACKGROUND: The traditional outcome measured following treatment of Dupuytren's 
Disease (DD) has been digital range of motion; specifically the gain in digital 
extension. The outcomes research movement in the last three decades however has 
been advocating the measurement of outcomes from the patient's perspective using 
Health-Related Quality of Life questionnaires (HRQOL). Although several generic 
and region-specific HRQOL questionnaires exist, there is no guidance as to which 
one is the most appropriate for this population. The objective of this study is 
to evaluate the psychometric properties of three self-reported HRQOL outcome 
measures in patients with DD.
METHODS: Patients with DD were enrolled from the practices of three plastic 
surgeons. Test-retest reliability, concurrent validity and responsiveness of 
three HRQOL questionnaires were compared in a prospective study design. The 
HRQOL measures included Health Utilities Index Mark 3 (HUI3), Short Form-36 
(SF-36), and the Michigan Hand Questionnaire (MHQ).
RESULTS: All three measures demonstrated good test-retest reliability 
(ICC = 0.77-0.85). Concurrent validity was found between the HUI3 pain and 
dexterity attributes and SF-36 physical summary score. The sensitivity of the 
MHQ to detect changes in the status of the patient was found to be high (effect 
size = 1.14) whereas that of the SF-36 was trivial.
CONCLUSIONS: The HUI3 and the MHQ seem to be reliable and valid tools to assess 
the HRQOL in patients with Dupuytren's Disease.

DOI: 10.1007/s11552-013-9597-3
PMCID: PMC4022949
PMID: 24839417


229. Prim Care Diabetes. 2015 Feb;9(1):39-47. doi: 10.1016/j.pcd.2014.04.007.
Epub  2014 May 17.

Cost-effectiveness of dapagliflozin (Forxiga®) added to metformin compared with 
sulfonylurea added to metformin in type 2 diabetes in the Nordic countries.
