PMID: 24755998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. JAMA Neurol. 2014 Jun;71(6):782-4. doi: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2013.5083.

Infantile spasms and hyperekplexia associated with isolated sulfite oxidase 
deficiency.

Holder JL Jr(1), Agadi S(1), Reese W(2), Rehder C(2), Quach MM(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurology and Developmental Neuroscience, Department of 
Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, Texas Children's Hospital, Houston.
(2)Clinical Molecular Diagnostic Laboratory, Duke University Health System, 
Durham, North Carolina.

IMPORTANCE: Isolated sulfite oxidase deficiency (ISOD) causes severe 
intellectual disability, epilepsy, and shortened life expectancy. Intractable 
seizures are invariable in children with ISOD; however, to our knowledge, 
infantile spasms with a corresponding hypsarrhythmia pattern on 
electroencephalogram have never been reported. In addition, the nonepileptic 
paroxysmal movement disorder hyperekplexia has not previously been reported with 
ISOD.
OBSERVATIONS: We describe an infant with ISOD who initially presented with 
neonatal seizures, diffusion restriction noted on magnetic resonance imaging, 
and elevated serum S-sulfocysteine consistent with ISOD. A homozygous mutation 
in the SUOX gene was identified, confirming the diagnosis. Uniquely, this 
patient developed a profound accentuated startle response that did not have a 
corresponding electrographic change on electroencephalogram consistent with 
hyperekplexia. This was followed by a change in the child's electroencephalogram 
to the chaotic pattern of hypsarrhythmia and brief tonic seizures with 
attenuation of the hypsarrhythmia pattern characteristic of infantile spasms.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: The evolution of seizures associated with ISOD is 
poorly characterized because of the small number of patients. We report what we 
believe to be the first case of a child with ISOD who developed infantile spasms 
and hyperekplexia. This expands the phenotypes associated with ISOD and also 
should caution clinicians to not assume that all abnormal movements are 
seizures.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaneurol.2013.5083
PMID: 24756183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. JAMA Intern Med. 2014 Jun;174(6):888-9. doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.77.

Smart aid: a catalytic converter.

Mundel T(1).

Author information:
(1)Global Health Program, Bill & Melinda Gates Foundation, Seattle, Washington.

Comment on
    JAMA Intern Med. 2014 Jun;174(6):881-7.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.77
PMID: 24756353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Patient. 2014;7(3):329-37. doi: 10.1007/s40271-014-0059-y.

Does diabetes have an impact on health-state utility? a study of Asians in 
Singapore.

Wang P(1), Tai ES, Thumboo J, Vrijhoef HJ, Luo N.

Author information:
(1)Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, National University of Singapore, 16 
Medical Drive, Block MD3, Singapore, 117597, Singapore.

OBJECTIVE: Our objective was to compare the time trade-off (TTO) values of 
EQ-5D-3L health states elicited from Singaporeans with and without type 2 
diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and T2DM patients with and without complications.
METHODS: The TTO values of ten EQ-5D-3L health states were elicited from a 
consecutive sample of T2DM patients and a general Singaporean population sample 
using similar valuation protocols. In face-to-face interviews, T2DM patients and 
members of the general population were asked to value five and ten health 
states, respectively. The difference in TTO values between the two samples and 
between T2DM patients with and without complications was examined using multiple 
linear regression models.
RESULTS: A total of 109 T2DM patients and 46 individuals without T2DM provided 
data. All ten health states considered, the mean TTO value was -0.02 for the 
general population sample and -0.04 for T2DM patients, with the unadjusted and 
adjusted difference being -0.06 (95 % confidence interval [CI] -0.16, 0.03) and 
0.02 (95 % CI -0.12, 0.15). The general population sample had systematically 
lower TTO values for mild health states, with the adjusted difference being 
-0.13 (95 % CI -0.25, -0.02); while the two samples had similar TTO values for 
severe health states, with the adjusted difference being 0.02 (95 % CI -0.16, 
0.19). T2DM patients without complications had systematically lower TTO values 
than those with complications, with the adjusted difference being -0.10 (95 % CI 
-0.23, 0.03).
CONCLUSIONS: It appears that diabetes and its complications affect patients' 
valuation of health states. Hence, the EQ-5D-3L health-state values based on the 
general population may underestimate the utility of health interventions for 
T2DM.

DOI: 10.1007/s40271-014-0059-y
PMID: 24756482 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. JAMA Intern Med. 2014 Jun;174(6):881-7. doi: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.292.

The relationship of health aid to population health improvements.

Bendavid E(1), Bhattacharya J(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medical Disciplines, Stanford University, Stanford, 
California2Center for Health Policy and the Center for Primary Care and Outcomes 
Research, Stanford University, Stanford, California.
(2)Center for Health Policy and the Center for Primary Care and Outcomes 
Research, Stanford University, Stanford, California.

Comment in
    JAMA Intern Med. 2014 Jun;174(6):888-9.

IMPORTANCE: International aid to the health sector is an important component of 
all health spending in many developing countries. The relationship between 
health aid and changes in population health among aid recipients remains 
unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To quantify the relationship between health aid and changes in life 
expectancy and mortality in children younger than 5 years (under-5 mortality) 
among aid recipient nations.
DESIGN: Cross-country panel data analysis of the relationship between measures 
of health aid, life expectancy, and under-5 mortality. Using difference models 
for longitudinal data with fixed effects for countries and years, we estimated 
the unique relationship between health aid and changes in life expectancy and 
under-5 mortality, controlling for gross domestic product per capita, 
urbanization, and total fertility rate.
SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: A total of 140 aid-recipient countries between 1974 
and 2010.
EXPOSURE: Annual amount of development assistance directed to the health sector 
in constant 2010 US dollars.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Improvements in under-5 mortality and life 
expectancy in the period following aid receipt.
RESULTS: Between 1974 and 2010, each 1% increase in health aid was associated 
with 0.24 months greater increase in life expectancy (95% CI, 0.02-0.46) 
(P = .03) and a 0.14 per 1000 live births faster decline in the probability of 
under-5 deaths per 1000 live births (95% CI, 0.02-0.26) (P = .02). The 
association between health aid and health improvements has strengthened over 
time, with the closest association occurring between 2000 and 2010. Health 
improvements associated with health aid are measurable for 3 to 5 years after 
aid disbursement. These findings imply that an increase of $1 billion in health 
aid could be associated with 364,800 fewer under-5 deaths (95% CI, 
98,400-630,000).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: International aid to the health sector is related to 
increasing life expectancy and declining under-5 mortality. The benefits from 
aid appear to last for several years and have been greatest between 2000 and 
2010, possibly because of improving health technologies or effective targeting 
of aid.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.292
PMCID: PMC4777302
PMID: 24756557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. West Indian Med J. 2013 Jul;62(6):543-7. doi: 10.7727/wimj.2013.092.

Results from a preliminary study to develop the quality adjustments for quality 
adjusted life year values for Trinidad and Tobago.

Bailey H(1).

Author information:
(1)Arthur Lok Jack Graduate School of Business and HEU, Centre for Health 
Economics, The University of the West Indies, St Augustine, Trinidad and Tobago. 
hhbailey@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: No country can afford to provide all necessary healthcare for its 
citizens, so prioritization among interventions must feature in all health 
systems. Resources in health should be allocated among 
interventions/facilities/patients in such a way as to be in line with the 
objectives of the health system. To achieve this, resource allocation decisions 
must be informed by the relative contributions that prospective interventions 
will make to societal health and to costs. Internationally, the EQ-5D based 
quality adjusted life year (QALY) now dominates this kind of analysis. This 
paper reports on a pilot study to develop an EQ-5D-3L value set for Trinidad and 
Tobago based on a protocol that avoids some of the issues that are associated 
with other approaches to developing such value sets such as the complex 
elicitation tasks that respondents must carry out, and the large respondent 
samples required for collecting multiple valuation subset values using blocked 
designs.
METHODS: An orthogonal discrete choice experiment design was used to elicit a 
set of choices from a sample of respondents.
RESULTS: The choice data were analysed using mixed multinomial logistic 
regression to produce an internally valid model that predicts well.
CONCLUSION: This paper marks an important milestone in the development of health 
resource allocation in the Caribbean. It sets out the importance of 
incorporating the impact of health interventions to inform health resource 
allocation decisions, describes the elicitation and analysis methods used in the 
pilot and provides an illustration of the use of the EQ-5D value set.

DOI: 10.7727/wimj.2013.092
PMID: 24756742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Demography. 2014 Jun;51(3):1003-17. doi: 10.1007/s13524-014-0287-8.

Divergence in age patterns of mortality change drives international divergence 
in lifespan inequality.

Gillespie DO(1), Trotter MV, Tuljapurkar SD.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Stanford University, Stanford, CA, 94305, USA.

In the past six decades, lifespan inequality has varied greatly within and among 
countries even while life expectancy has continued to increase. How and why does 
mortality change generate this diversity? We derive a precise link between 
changes in age-specific mortality and lifespan inequality, measured as the 
variance of age at death. Key to this relationship is a young-old threshold age, 
below and above which mortality decline respectively decreases and increases 
lifespan inequality. First, we show for Sweden that shifts in the threshold's 
location have modified the correlation between changes in life expectancy and 
lifespan inequality over the last two centuries. Second, we analyze the 
post-World War II (WWII) trajectories of lifespan inequality in a set of 
developed countries-Japan, Canada, and the United States-where thresholds 
centered on retirement age. Our method reveals how divergence in the age pattern 
of mortality change drives international divergence in lifespan inequality. Most 
strikingly, early in the 1980s, mortality increases in young U.S. males led to a 
continuation of high lifespan inequality in the United States; in Canada, 
however, the decline of inequality continued. In general, our wider 
international comparisons show that mortality change varied most at young 
working ages after WWII, particularly for males. We conclude that if mortality 
continues to stagnate at young ages yet declines steadily at old ages, increases 
in lifespan inequality will become a common feature of future demographic 
change.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-014-0287-8
PMCID: PMC4067902
PMID: 24756909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Br J Surg. 2014 Jun;101(7):828-35. doi: 10.1002/bjs.9501. Epub 2014 Apr 23.

Cost-effectiveness of early laparoscopic cholecystectomy for mild acute 
gallstone pancreatitis.

Morris S(1), Gurusamy KS, Patel N, Davidson BR.

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Health Research, University College London.

BACKGROUND: A recent Cochrane review suggested that laparoscopic cholecystectomy 
carried out early following mild gallstone pancreatitis was safe. This study 
compared the cost-effectiveness of laparoscopic cholecystectomy performed within 
3 days of admission, during the same admission but after more than 3 days, or 
electively in a subsequent admission.
METHODS: A model-based cost-utility analysis was performed estimating mean costs 
and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) per patient in the UK National Health 
Service with a 1-year time horizon. A decision tree model was constructed and 
populated with probabilities, outcomes and cost data from published sources for 
mild gallstone pancreatitis, including one-way and probabilistic sensitivity 
analyses.
RESULTS: The costs of laparoscopic cholecystectomy performed within 3 days of 
admission, beyond 3 days but in the same admission, and electively in a 
subsequent admission were € 2748, € 3543 and € 3752 respectively; the QALYs were 
0.888, 0.888 and 0.884 respectively. Early laparoscopic cholecystectomy had a 91 
per cent probability of being cost-effective at the maximum willingness to pay 
for a QALY commonly used in the UK. It is acknowledged that many hospitals do 
not have access to magnetic resonance cholangiopancreatography and endoscopic 
retrograde cholangiopancreatography, especially at weekends, and that 
implementing a 3-day target is unrealistic without allocating new resources that 
could erode the cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSION: Performing laparoscopic cholecystectomy for mild gallstone 
pancreatitis within 3 days of admission is cost-effective, but may not be 
feasible without significant resource allocation. After 3 days there is little 
financial advantage to same-admission operation.

© 2014 BJS Society Ltd. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/bjs.9501
PMID: 24756933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Acta Orthop. 2014 Jun;85(3):238-43. doi: 10.3109/17453674.2014.913224. Epub
2014  Apr 23.

Projections of total hip replacement in Sweden from 2013 to 2030.

Nemes S(1), Gordon M, Rogmark C, Rolfson O.

Author information:
(1)The Swedish Hip Arthroplasty Register, Gothenburg.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: The continuously increasing demand for joint replacement 
surgery in the past decades imposes higher constraints on the budgets of 
hospitals and healthcare providers. We undertook an analysis of historical 
trends in total hip replacement performed in Sweden between 1968 and 2012 in 
order to provide projections of future demand.
DATA AND METHODS: We obtained data on total hip replacements registered every 
year and on the evolution of the Swedish population between 1968 and 2012. We 
assumed the existence of a maximum incidence. So we adopted a regression 
framework that assumes the existence of an upper limit of total hip replacement 
incidence.
RESULTS: We found that the incidence of total hip replacement will continue to 
increase until a projected upper incidence level of about 400 total hip 
replacements per 10(5) Swedish residents aged 40 years and older will be reached 
around the year 2107. In 2020, the estimated incidence of total hip replacement 
will be 341 (95% prediction interval (PI): 302-375) and in 2030 it will be 358 
(PI: 317-396). Using official forecasted population growth data, about 18,000 
operations would be expected to be performed in 2020 and 20,000 would be 
expected to be performed in 2030.
INTERPRETATION: Growing incidence, population growth, and increasing life 
expectancy will probably result in increased demand for hip replacement surgery. 
Our findings could serve as a basis for decision making.

DOI: 10.3109/17453674.2014.913224
PMCID: PMC4062789
PMID: 24758323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Acta Orthop. 2014 Jun;85(3):218-20. doi: 10.3109/17453674.2014.913227. Epub
2014  Apr 23.

Prosthetic joint infections: a need for health economy studies.

Borgquist L(1), W-Dahl A, Dale H, Lidgren L, Stefánsdóttir A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Linköping University, Sweden.

DOI: 10.3109/17453674.2014.913227
PMCID: PMC4062785
PMID: 24758324 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Jun;14(3):387-402. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.906307. Epub 2014 Apr 23.

Cost-effectiveness of protease inhibitor based regimens for chronic hepatitis C: 
a systematic review of published literature.

San Miguel R(1), Gimeno-Ballester V, Mar J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy, Complejo Hospitalario de Navarra, Pamplona, Spain.

The treatment of chronic hepatitis C has experienced a substantial progress with 
the arrival of Boceprevir and Telaprevir due to the significant increase in 
sustained viral response. Given the high cost, their approval has been followed 
by great deal of pharmacoeconomic literature analysing their efficiency. A 
systematic review of this literature was carried out, evaluating both its 
results and the methodology employed. 54 references were revised including 11 
studies, 6 on naive populations, 3 on pre-treated patients and 2 in both of 
them. As the clinical heterogeneity of patients influenced sustained viral 
response, therapy regimens were assessed conditioned to the interleukin 28B 
polymorphism, the early response to treatment and the level of fibrosis, among 
other variables. Most of the options evaluated on a naive population presented 
ICERs below the acceptability threshold. The same occurred in the pre-treated 
population, where the subgroups analysis is perceived as a methodological 
limitation.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.906307
PMID: 24758525 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2014 May;202(5):1062-8. doi: 10.2214/AJR.13.11235.

Prioritizing examination-centered over patient-centered dose reduction: a hazard 
of institutional "benchmarking".

Eisenberg JD(1), Gilmore ME, Kalra MK, Kong CY, Pandharipande PV.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital Institute for 
Technology Assessment, 101 Merrimac St, 10th Fl, Boston, MA 02114.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this article is to evaluate whether 
examination-specific radiation dose metrics reliably measure an institution's 
success in reducing cancer risks.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We projected health benefits from dose-reduction programs 
in a hypothetical institution that sought to decrease exposures from 
abdominopelvic CT. Using modeling techniques to project radiation-induced cancer 
risks and tertiary center data to inform the institution's abdominopelvic CT age 
distribution, we compared a program in which effective doses were reduced 
equally (from 10 to 7 mSv) across all scans with programs in which dose 
reduction was age dependent. For each program, we projected lethal cancers 
averted, life expectancy gained, and average institutional dose achieved. Markov 
Chain Monte Carlo methods were used to estimate uncertainty in projections.
RESULTS: The analysis's age distribution drew from 20,979 CT scans; 39% were 
from patients 65 years old and older. To illustrate trends yielded, if all 
patients in the hypothetical institution underwent 7-mSv (instead of 10-mSv) 
scans, we projected the maximum number of lethal cancers averted to be seven per 
100,000 patients, and maximum life expectancy gained to be 0.26 days per 
patient, when averaged over the institution's population. When restricting dose 
reduction (from 10 to 7 mSv) to patients younger than 65 years, benefits were 
slightly lower (five lethal cancers averted per 100,000 patients and 0.22 days 
per patient gained); however, the average institutional dose was substantially 
higher (8.2 mSv). Although dose reduction in patients 65 years old and older 
accounted for only 16% of possible institutional life expectancy gains, this 
patient group contributed disproportionately (39%) to the institution's average 
dose.
CONCLUSION: Institutional examination-specific dose metrics can be misleading, 
because the least-benefited patients may contribute disproportionately toward 
"improved" averages.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.13.11235
PMCID: PMC4174555
PMID: 24758661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Biomed Environ Sci. 2014 Apr;27(4):304-10. doi: 10.3967/bes2014.054.

The nationwide impact of injury-related deaths on average life expectancy in 
China.

Wang Y(1), Ji CR(1), Zhou MG(1), Ji YB(1), Liu YN(1), Duan LL(1).

Author information:
(1)National Center for Non-communicable Disease Control and Prevention, China 
CDC, Beijing 100050, China.

To expand the evidence base to inform future public policy aimed at accident 
prevention, we investigated the impact of different categories of injury on 
average life expectancy in China. We used data from the National Death Cause 
Registration Information System and National Maternity and Children Health 
Surveillance databases, as well as 2010 population data from the National Bureau 
of Statistics. We then calculated the average life expectancy of the Chinese 
population, in addition to life expectancy after eliminating injury-related 
mortality. The average life expectancy of the Chinese population in 2010 was 
74.93 years. After eliminating deaths due to injuries, the fourth leading cause 
of mortality in China, average life expectancy increased by 1.36 years. When 
this was broken down by population sub-groups, these gains were 1.76 and 0.79 
years in men and women, 0.94 and 1.56 years in urban and rural residents, and 
1.11, 1.30, and 1.67 years for residents in the Eastern, Central and Western 
regions respectively. After eliminating all categories of injury, the average 
life expectancy of the Chinese population was found to increase by 1.36 years. 
This figure was higher for males and residents of rural areas and Western China.

Copyright © 2014 The Editorial Board of Biomedical and Environmental Sciences. 
Published by China CDC. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.3967/bes2014.054
PMID: 24758760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. J Biol Chem. 2014 May 30;289(22):15577-87. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.558643.
Epub  2014 Apr 23.

YCL047C/POF1 is a novel nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase (NMNAT) 
in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Kato M(1), Lin SJ(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, College of 
Biological Sciences, University of California, Davis, California 95616.
(2)From the Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, College of 
Biological Sciences, University of California, Davis, California 95616 
slin@ucdavis.edu.

NAD(+) is an essential metabolic cofactor involved in various cellular 
biochemical processes. Nicotinamide riboside (NR) is an endogenously produced 
key pyridine metabolite that plays important roles in the maintenance of NAD(+) 
pool. Using a NR-specific cell-based screen, we identified mutants that exhibit 
altered NR release phenotype. Yeast cells lacking the ORF YCL047C/POF1 release 
considerably more NR compared with wild type, suggesting that POF1 plays an 
important role in NR/NAD(+) metabolism. The amino acid sequence of Pof1 
indicates that it is a putative nicotinamide mononucleotide adenylyltransferase 
(NMNAT). Unlike other yeast NMNATs, Pof1 exhibits NMN-specific 
adenylyltransferase activity. Deletion of POF1 significantly lowers NAD(+) 
levels and decreases the efficiency of NR utilization, resistance to oxidative 
stress, and NR-induced life span extension. We also show that NR is constantly 
produced by multiple nucleotidases and that the intracellular NR pools are 
likely to be compartmentalized, which contributes to the regulation of NAD(+) 
homeostasis. Our findings may contribute to the understanding of the molecular 
basis and regulation of NAD(+) metabolism in higher eukaryotes.

© 2014 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M114.558643
PMCID: PMC4140913
PMID: 24759102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Health Econ Policy Law. 2014 Jul;9(3):313-28. doi:
10.1017/S1744133114000115.  Epub 2014 Apr 23.

Framing the issue of ageing and health care spending in Canada, the United 
Kingdom and the United States.

Gusmano MK(1), Allin S(2).

Author information:
(1)1Research Scholar,The Hastings Center and Lecturer,Yale University,USA.
(2)2Assistant Professor,School of Public Policy and Governance,University of 
Toronto and the Canadian Institute for Health Information,Canada.

Political debates about the affordability of health care programmes in 
high-income countries often point to population ageing as a threat to 
sustainability. Debates in the United States, in particular, highlight concerns 
about intergenerational equity, whereby spending on older people is perceived as 
a threat to spending on the young. This paper compares how the problem of health 
spending is defined in Canada, the United Kingdom and the United States by 
presenting the results of a content analysis of print media during the period 
2005-2010. We found that population ageing was cited as an important source of 
health care cost increases in all three countries but was cited less frequently 
in Canadian newspapers than in the UK or US papers. Direct claims about 
intergenerational equity are infrequent among the articles we coded, but 
newspaper articles in the United States were more likely than those in Canada 
and the United Kingdom to claim that of high health care spending on older 
people takes resources away from younger people. In Canada a much larger 
percentage of articles in our sample either claimed that high health care 
spending is crowding out other types of government expenditure. Finally, we 
found that almost no articles in the United States challenged the view that 
population ageing causes health care spending, whereas in both Canada and the 
United Kingdom a small, but steady stream of articles challenged the idea that 
population ageing is to blame for health care spending increases.

DOI: 10.1017/S1744133114000115
PMID: 24759155 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. AIDS Rev. 2014 Apr-Jun;16(2):75-89.

Morbidity in older HIV-infected patients: impact of long-term antiretroviral 
use.

Guaraldi G(1), Prakash M(2), Moecklinghoff C(3), Stellbrink HJ(4).

Author information:
(1)Metabolic Clinic, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.
(2)Janssen, High Wycombe, Buckinghamshire, UK.
(3)Janssen, Neuss, Germany.
(4)ICH Study Center, Hamburg, Germany.

The introduction of HAART has represented a major advance in the care of people 
with HIV. By markedly increasing life expectancy, HAART has significantly 
changed the pattern of HIV infection in developed countries, the "graying" of 
the HIV-infected population being a powerful testament to its success. However, 
this has presented physicians with new challenges relating to the care of older 
patients with HIV, many of whom exhibit a "frailty syndrome" associated with 
increased comorbidity and chronic low-grade inflammation in a process which has 
recently been termed "inflammaging". This paper reviews the pattern of morbidity 
seen in older HIV-infected patients and examines the effects, both beneficial 
and deleterious, of antiretroviral therapy. The efficacy and tolerability of 
antiretroviral therapy is of particular importance in older patients, given the 
likelihood that increased frailty may magnify the consequences both of 
suboptimal viral suppression and of toxicity, and in view of the complications 
that may arise from the presence of comorbidities and resultant polypharmacy. 
The challenge is to maximize antiviral efficacy and minimize toxicity, while 
taking into account the often complex web of comorbidities that may be present 
in these patients. This challenge is being met through the refinement of 
existing antiretroviral therapy regimens, the development of new agents, and a 
growing focus on a more holistic approach to care, which acknowledges the 
importance of the overall "health picture" and of good communication and 
cooperation between treating physicians and patients.

PMID: 24759453 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Gastroenterol Rep (Oxf). 2013 Nov;1(3):198-202. doi: 10.1093/gastro/got025.
Epub  2013 Oct 11.

Changing approaches to rectal prolapse repair in the elderly.

Poylin V(1), Bensley R, Nagle D.

Author information:
(1)Colon and Rectal Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA, 
USA and Department of Surgery, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, MA 
USA.

AIM: The abdominal approach to rectal prolapse is associated with lower rates of 
recurrence but a higher chance of complications and has been traditionally 
reserved for younger patients. However, longer life expectancy and wider use of 
laparoscopic techniques necessitates another look at the abdominal approach in 
older patients.
METHODS: This was a retrospective review of data from patients undergoing 
abdominal repair of rectal prolapse between 2005 and 2011.
RESULTS: Forty-six abdominal repairs (laparoscopic or open suture rectopexy, 
sigmoidectomy and rectopexy and low anterior resection) were performed during 
the study period. Twenty-nine repairs (63%) were performed in patients under the 
age of 70 (average age 51) and 17 (37%) in patients older than 70 (average age 
76; range 71-89). Most of the cases performed during the initial 3 years of the 
study were via laparotomy. However, in the last 4 years, the laparoscopic 
approach was used in 83% of younger patients and 69% of older patients. Average 
length of stay was 2.6 days for younger and 3.8 days for older patients. Both 
groups had similar rates of re-admission: 20% vs 23%. The rate of wound 
infection was higher in the younger patients (5% vs nil). However, rates of 
urinary tract infection, two instances (10%) vs four (30%), urinary retention, 
one instance (5%) vs two (15.4%), ileus, one instance (5%) vs two (15.4%) were 
higher in the older group.
CONCLUSION: Wider use of laparoscopy has precipitated a change in the approach 
to rectal prolapse in older patients. Although associated with a slightly higher 
rate of post-operative complications, the abdominal approach to rectal prolapse 
is feasible, safe and effective in patients older than 70 years.

DOI: 10.1093/gastro/got025
PMCID: PMC3937996
PMID: 24759966


988. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 23;9(4):e96131. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096131. 
eCollection 2014.

Leg extension power is a pre-disaster modifiable risk factor for post-traumatic 
stress disorder among survivors of the Great East Japan Earthquake: a 
retrospective cohort study.

Momma H(1), Niu K(2), Kobayashi Y(3), Huang C(3), Otomo A(3), Chujo M(3), 
Tadaura H(4), Nagatomi R(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biomedical Engineering for Health and Welfare, Tohoku University 
Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, Sendai, Japan.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, Tianjin Medical 
University, Tianjin, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Medicine and Science in Sports and Exercise, Tohoku University 
Graduate School of Medicine, Sendai, Japan.
(4)School of Nursing in Miyagi University, Sendai, Japan.
(5)Division of Biomedical Engineering for Health and Welfare, Tohoku University 
Graduate School of Biomedical Engineering, Sendai, Japan; Department of Medicine 
and Science in Sports and Exercise, Tohoku University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Sendai, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Post-traumatic stress disorder (PTSD) is a common psychological 
problem following natural disasters. Although pre-disaster risk factors are 
important for early detection and proactive support, the examination of such has 
been limited to sociodemographic factors, which were largely unaffected by the 
disasters. We examined the association between pre-disaster physical functioning 
and lifestyle and PTSD symptoms five months after the earthquake in the Great 
East Japan Earthquake survivors who were participating in a pre-existing cohort 
study.
METHODS: We designed a retrospective cohort study of a cooperative association 
in Sendai from August 2010 to August 2011. In 2010, lifestyle, physical 
condition, and sociodemographic factors were examined by self-reported 
questionnaires completed by 522 employees of this organization. We also measured 
the leg extension power of all the participants. PTSD symptoms were evaluated by 
the Japanese version of the Impact of Event Scale-Revised (IES-R-J) following 
the earthquake of 2011.
RESULTS: In multivariate linear regression analysis, leg extension power 
(β = -0.128, P = 0.025), daily drinking (β  = 0.203, P = 0.006), and depressive 
symptoms (β  = 0.139, P = 0.008) were associated with total score of the IES-R-J 
among men. Moreover, for the IES-R-J subscale, leg extension power was also 
negatively associated with Intrusion (β = -0.114, P = 0.045) and Hyperarousal 
(β = -0.163, P = 0.004) after adjusting for all other significant variables. For 
women, hypertension (β  = 0.226, P = 0.032) and depressive symptoms (β  = 0.205, 
P = 0.046) were associated with the total score of the IES-R-J.
CONCLUSIONS: Leg extension power is a potentially modifiable pre-disaster risk 
factor among men for attenuating the severity of PTSD symptoms associated with 
great disasters such as the Great East Japan Earthquake among men.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096131
PMCID: PMC3997555
PMID: 24760054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


989. Eur J Health Econ. 2015 May;16(4):437-50. doi: 10.1007/s10198-014-0583-7.
Epub  2014 Apr 24.

Cost-effectiveness of integrated care in frail elderly using the ICECAP-O and 
EQ-5D: does choice of instrument matter?

Makai P(1), Looman W, Adang E, Melis R, Stolk E, Fabbricotti I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, Radboud University Medical Center, Renier Postlaan 
4, 6500 HB, Nijmegen, The Netherlands, Peter.Makai@radboudumc.nl.

Economic evaluations likely undervalue the benefits of interventions in 
populations receiving both health and social services, such as frail elderly, by 
measuring only health-related quality of life. For this reason, alternative 
preference-based instruments have been developed for economic evaluations in the 
elderly, such as the ICECAP-O. The aim of this paper is twofold: (1) to evaluate 
the cost-effectiveness using a short run time frame for an integrated care model 
for frail elderly, and (2) to investigate whether using a broader measure of 
(capability) wellbeing in an economic evaluation leads to a different outcome in 
terms of cost-effectiveness. We performed univariate and multivariate analyses 
on costs and outcomes separately. We also performed incremental net monetary 
benefit regressions using quality adjusted life years (QALYs) based on the 
ICECAP-O and EQ-5D. In terms of QALYs as measured with the EQ-5D and the 
ICECAP-O, there were small and insignificant differences between the 
instruments, due to negligible effect size. Therefore, widespread implementation 
of the Walcheren integrated care model would be premature based on these 
results. All results suggest that, using the ICECAP-O, the intervention has a 
higher probability of cost-effectiveness than with the EQ-5D at the same level 
of WTP. In case an intervention's health and wellbeing effects are not 
significant, as in this study, using the ICECAP-O will not lead to a false claim 
of cost-effectiveness of the intervention. On the other hand, if differences in 
capability QALYs are meaningful and significant, the ICECAP-O may have the 
potential to measure broader outcomes and be more sensitive to differences 
between intervention and comparators.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-014-0583-7
PMID: 24760405 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Appl Biochem Biotechnol. 2014 Jul;173(5):1108-20. doi: 
10.1007/s12010-014-0918-y. Epub 2014 Apr 24.

Characterization of a family B DNA polymerase from the hyperthermophilic 
crenarchaeon Ignicoccus hospitalis KIN4/I and its application to PCR.

Seo KJ(1), Cho SS, Ppyun HW, Youn MH, Kim SH, Seo BS, Kwon ST.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biotechnology and Bioengineering, Sungkyunkwan University, 300 
Cheoncheon-dong, Jangan-gu, Suwon, 440-746, South Korea.

A family B DNA polymerase gene from the hyperthermophilic crenarchaeon 
Ignicoccus hospitalis KIN4/I was highly expressed under the control of T7lac 
promoter of pET-28ARG in Escherichia coli BL21-CodonPlus(DE3)-RIL cells. The 
produced I. hospitalis (Iho) DNA polymerase was purified by heat treatment 
followed by HisTrap™ HP column and HiTrap™ SP column chromatographies. The 
molecular mass of the purified Iho DNA polymerase was 88 kDa as estimated by 
sodium dodecyl sulfate polyacrylamide gel electrophoresis (SDS-PAGE). The 
optimal pH for Iho DNA polymerase activity was 7.0 and the optimal temperature 
was 70 °C. Iho DNA polymerase was strongly activated by the presence of 
magnesium ion at an optimum concentration of 3 mM. The optimal concentration of 
KCl for Iho DNA polymerase activity was 60 mM. The half-life of the enzyme at 94 
°C was about 2 h. The optimal conditions for polymerase chain reaction (PCR) 
were determined. Iho DNA polymerase possesses 3'→5' exonuclease activity, and 
the fidelity of the Iho DNA polymerase was similar to that of Pfu and Vent DNA 
polymerases. However, Iho DNA polymerase provided more enhanced efficiency of 
PCR amplification than Pfu and Vent DNA polymerases. Iho DNA polymerase could 
successfully amplify a 2-kb λ DNA target with a 10-s extension time and could 
amplify a DNA fragment up to 8 kb λ DNA.

DOI: 10.1007/s12010-014-0918-y
PMID: 24760610 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. J Gynecol Oncol. 2014 Apr;25(2):97-104. doi: 10.3802/jgo.2014.25.2.97. Epub
2014  Apr 9.

Cost-utility analysis of treatments for stage IB cervical cancer.

Katanyoo K(1), Praditsitthikorn N(2), Tangjitgamol S(3), Manusirivithaya S(3), 
Supawattanabodee B(4).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Unit, Department of Radiology, Faculty of Medicine Vajira 
Hospital, Navamindradhiraj University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Health Intervention and Technology Assessment Program & Bureau of AIDS, TB 
and STIs, Department of Disease Control, Ministry of Public Health, Nonthaburi, 
Thailand.
(3)Gynecologic Oncology Unit, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty 
of Medicine Vajira Hospital, Navamindradhiraj University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(4)Clinical Epidemiology Unit, Faculty of Medicine Vajira Hospital, 
Navamindradhiraj University, Bangkok, Thailand.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the cost-utility of two common clinical practices for 
stage IB cervical cancer patients from provider and societal viewpoints.
METHODS: A DECISION TREE MODEL WAS CONDUCTED TO EXAMINE VALUE FOR EXPENDITURE 
BETWEEN THE FOLLOWING: (1) radical hysterectomy with pelvic lymph node 
dissection (RHPLND) with or without postoperative adjuvant therapy according to 
the risk of recurrence and (2) concurrent chemoradiotherapy (CCRT). The relevant 
studies were identified to extract the probability data, and meta-analysis was 
performed. Direct medical costs were estimated from hospital database and 
medical records review. Direct non-medical costs and utility parameters were 
obtained through interviews with patients to estimate quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) outcome. The time horizon was according to the life expectancy of 
Thai women.
RESULTS: From provider viewpoint, RHPLND and CCRT resulted in approximate costs 
of US $5,281 and US $5,218, respectively. The corresponding costs from societal 
viewpoint were US $6,533 and US $6,335, respectively. QALYs were 16.40 years for 
RHPLND and 15.94 years for CCRT. The estimated incremental cost effectiveness 
ratio of RHPLND in comparison to CCRT from provider and societal viewpoints were 
US $100/QALY and US $430/QALY, respectively. RHPLND had more cost-effectiveness 
than CCRT if patients did not need adjuvant therapy. The most effective 
parameter in model was a direct medical cost of CCRT. At the current ceiling 
ratio in Thailand, RHPLND provides better value for money than CCRT, with a 
probability of 75%.
CONCLUSION: RHPLND is an efficient treatment for stage IB cervical cancer. This 
advantage is only for patients who require no adjuvant treatment.

DOI: 10.3802/jgo.2014.25.2.97
PMCID: PMC3996271
PMID: 24761212

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


992. Zh Vopr Neirokhir Im N N Burdenko. 2014;78(1):83-90; discussion 90.

Brain injury: existential view to the restoration of the patient's contact with 
the self and the world.

[Article in English, Russian]

Ignatieva NS.

We present conceptual changes in psychological rehabilitation after severe brain 
injury. Traditional clinical approach reduces the person's inner life to level 
of consciousness, considers psychological processes only from the deficit point 
of view. We consider the experience of coming out of coma (non-existence) from 
the point of fundamental components of existence, i.e. anchoring with the world, 
with life, with self, with the future (Langle, 2003). In aspect of experience 
these components form the matrix of Patient-World and Patient-Self recovery 
phases. While working with BI patients, we have defined following phases: 
0-phase: experiencing existence, the feeling "I exist here". The main target of 
psychotherapy is consolidation and reinforcement of the feeling of existence 
through the feeling of one's body boundaries (and extension), and finding 
resources for surviving. 1-phase: "be-able-to-exist-in-the world". The patient 
comes across reality of external world. We mean first of all the perception of 
the factual side of the world. 2-phase: loving life. The work is concentrated on 
the recovery of patient's ability to address himself and others so as to be able 
to experience emotions and live through his own wishes. 3-phase: restoration of 
patient's self-image and substantiation of own value. It means self-perception 
and selfrespect despite all the losses and deficits because of trauma. 4-phase: 
finding the sense. It is necessary to help the patient to make the existential 
change to avoid dependent position, don't consider himself as the victim of 
circumstances. This conception is used on different stages of recovery starting 
from severe disordered consciousness to socialization stage.

PMID: 24761601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Haemophilia. 2014 May;20 Suppl 4:23-8. doi: 10.1111/hae.12428.

Novel products for haemostasis - current status.

Oldenburg J(1), Albert T.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Experimental Haematology and Transfusion Medicine, University 
Clinic Bonn, Bonn, Germany.

Currently, new clotting factor concentrates are becoming available or are in 
advanced clinical studies that will significantly improve the treatment of 
patients with Haemophilia A or Haemophilia B. Various technologies are applied 
to extend half-life and/or allow for alternative routes of administration, e.g. 
subcutaneous route. Today, the advances for recombinant factor IX are 
significantly with half-life extensions to up to 100 h, allowing substitution 
intervals of 1-2 weeks. For recombinant factor VIII (FVIII) products the effect 
so far is only moderate, as the half-life extension is limited to about 15-18 h 
by the clearance of FVIII through its binding to von Willebrand factor. However, 
novel products applying new technologies with significantly extended half-life 
are already at the horizont, as a bispecific antibody that mimics FVIII. The 
pharmacokinetic improvements of the new products will lead to a revision of our 
current treatment regimens, with regard to intended trough levels, number of 
tolerated bleeds and likely will drive a greater individualization of regimens. 
Clearly, the potential of anti drug antibody response for these modified 
proteins must not be higher than with our current products. Another challenge 
are the increasingly diverse biochemical characteristics of the new products, 
that have to be considered when determining potencies and also when monitoring 
treatment in patients with the various available assays. Despite these 
challenges, the new products will significantly improve treatment and quality of 
life for our patients with haemophilia.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12428
PMID: 24762271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Health Technol Assess. 2014 Apr;18(23):1-196. doi: 10.3310/hta18230.

The clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of primary human 
papillomavirus cervical screening in England: extended follow-up of the ARTISTIC 
randomised trial cohort through three screening rounds.

C Kitchener H(1), Canfell K(2), Gilham C(3), Sargent A(4), Roberts C(5), Desai 
M(6), Peto J(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Cancer Sciences, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(2)Lowy Cancer Research Centre, Prince of Wales Clinical School, University of 
New South Wales, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(3)Non-Communicable Disease Epidemiology Unit, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, London, UK.
(4)Department of Virology, Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.
(5)Institute of Population Health, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(6)Manchester Cytology Centre, Central Manchester University Hospitals NHS 
Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.

BACKGROUND: The ARTISTIC (A Randomised Trial In Screening To Improve Cytology) 
trial originally reported after two rounds of primary cervical screening with 
human papillomavirus (HPV). Extended follow-up of the randomised trial cohort 
through a third round could provide valuable insight into the duration of 
protection of a negative HPV test, which could allow extended screening 
intervals. If HPV primary screening is to be considered in the national 
programme, then determining its cost-effectiveness is key, and a detailed 
economic analysis using ARTISTIC data is needed.
AIMS/OBJECTIVES: (1) To determine the round 3 and cumulative rates of cervical 
intraepithelial neoplasia (CIN) grade 2 or worse (2+) and CIN grade 3 or worse 
(CIN3+) between the revealed and concealed arms of ARTISTIC after three 
screening rounds over 6 years. (2) To compare the cumulative incidence of CIN2+ 
over three screening rounds following negative screening cytology with that 
following negative baseline HPV. (3) To determine whether or not HPV screening 
could safely extend the screening interval from 3 to 6 years. (4) To study the 
potential clinical utility of an increased cut-off of 2 relative light unit/mean 
control (RLU/Co) for Hybrid Capture 2 (HC2) and HPV genotyping in primary 
cervical screening. (5) To determine the potential impact of HPV vaccination 
with Cervarix™ in terms of preventing abnormal cytology and CIN2+. (6) To 
determine the cost-effectiveness of HPV primary screening compared with current 
practice using cervical cytology in England.
DESIGN: The ARTISTIC study cohort was recalled for a third round of screening 3 
years after round 2 and 6 years following their enrolment to the study. Both 
arms of the original trial used a single protocol during round 3.
SETTING: ARTISTIC study cohort undergoing cervical screening in primary care in 
Greater Manchester, UK.
PARTICIPANTS: Between July 2007 and September 2009, 8873 women participated in 
round 3; 6337 had been screened in round 2 and 2536 had not been screened since 
round 1.
INTERVENTIONS: All women underwent liquid-based cytology and HPV testing and 
genotyping. Colposcopy was offered to women with moderate dyskaryosis or worse 
and with HPV-positive mild dyskaryosis/borderline changes. Women with negative 
cytology or HPV-negative mild dyskaryosis/borderline changes were returned to 
routine recall.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Principal outcomes were cumulative rates of CIN2+ over 
three screening rounds by cytology and HPV status at entry; HPV type specific 
rates of CIN2+; effect of age on outcomes correlated with cytology and HPV 
status; comparison of HC2 cut-off RLU/Co of both 1 and 2; and cost-effectiveness 
of HPV primary screening.
RESULTS: The median duration of follow-up was 72.7 months in round 3. Over the 
three screening rounds, there was no significant difference in CIN2+ [odds ratio 
(OR): 1.06, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.89 to 1.26, p = 0.5)] or CIN3+ (OR: 
0.90, 95% CI 0.72 to 1.14, p = 0.4) rates between the trial arms (revealed vs. 
concealed). Overall, 16% of women were HC2 positive at entry, decreasing from 
40% in women aged 20-24 years to around 7% in women aged over 50 years. Abnormal 
cytology rates at entry were 13% for borderline+ and 2% for moderate+ cytology. 
Following positive cytology at entry, the cumulative rate of CIN2+ was 20.5%, 
and was 20.1% following a HPV-positive result at baseline. The cumulative CIN2+ 
rate for women who were HPV negative at baseline was only 0.87% (95% CI 0.70% to 
1.06%) after three rounds of screening, significantly lower than that for women 
with negative cytology, which was 1.41% (95% CI 1.19% to 1.65%). Women who were 
HPV negative at baseline had similar protection from CIN2+ after 6 years as 
women who were cytology negative at baseline after 3 years. Women who were HPV 
positive/cytology negative at baseline had a cumulative CIN2+ rate at 6 years of 
7.7%, significantly higher than that for women who were cytology positive/HPV 
negative (3.2%). Women who were HPV type 16 positive at baseline had a 
cumulative CIN2+ rate over three rounds of 43.6% compared with 20.1% for any 
HPV-positive test. Using a HC2 cut-off of RLU/Co ≥ 2 would maintain acceptable 
sensitivity and result in 16% fewer HPV-positive results. Typing data suggested 
that around 55-60% of high-grade cytology and CIN2+, but less than 25% of 
low-grade cytology, would be prevented by HPV vaccine given current rates of 
coverage in the UK national programme. For the cost-effectiveness analysis, most 
of the primary HPV strategies examined where HPV was used as the sole primary 
test were cost saving in both unvaccinated and vaccinated cohorts under baseline 
cost assumptions, with a 7-18% reduction in annual screening-associated costs in 
unvaccinated cohorts and a 9-22% reduction for vaccinated cohorts. Utilising 
partial genotyping at the primary screening stage to identify women with HPV 
16/18 and referring them to colposcopy was the most effective strategy (barring 
co-testing, which is significantly more costly than any other strategies 
considered), resulting in 83 additional life-years per 100,000 women for 
unvaccinated women when compared with current practice, and similar life-years 
saved compared with current practice for vaccinated women. In unvaccinated 
cohorts, however, this genotyping strategy is predicted to result in a 20% 
increase in the number of colposcopies performed in England, although in 
vaccinated cohorts the number of colposcopy referrals was predicted to be lower 
than in current practice. For all strategies in which HPV is used as the sole 
primary screening test, decreasing the follow-up interval for intermediate-risk 
women from 24 to 12 months increased the overall effectiveness of primary HPV 
screening. In exploratory analysis, strategies for which cytology screening was 
retained until either age 30 or 35 years, and for which HPV testing was used at 
older ages, were predicted to be of higher costs and intermediate effectiveness 
than those associated with full implementation of primary HPV screening from age 
25 years. However, this finding should be interpreted with caution as it depends 
on assumptions made about screening behaviour and compliance with 
recommendations at the 'switch over' point.
CONCLUSIONS: HPV testing as an initial screen was significantly more protective 
over three rounds (6 years) than the current practice of cytology and the use of 
primary HPV screening could allow a safe lengthening of the screening interval. 
A substantial decrease in high-grade cytology and CIN2+ can be expected as a 
consequence of the HPV vaccination programme. A HC2 cut-off of 2RLU/Co instead 
of the manufacturer's recommended cut-off of 1 would be clinically beneficial in 
terms of an optimal balance between sensitivity and specificity. Modelled 
analysis predicts that primary HPV screening would be both more effective and 
cost saving compared with current practice with cervical cytology for a number 
of potential strategies in both unvaccinated and vaccinated cohorts. Compliance 
with surveillance and optimal management of HPV-positive/cytology-negative women 
after primary HPV screening is of key importance. Limitations of the economic 
investigation included the need to make assumptions around compliance with 
screening attendance and follow-up for longer screening intervals in the future, 
assumptions regarding maintenance of current uptake vaccination in the future, 
and assumptions regarding the stability of cost of HPV and cytology tests in the 
future. Detailed sensitivity analysis across a range of possible assumptions was 
conducted to address these issues. This study and the economic evaluation lend 
support to convert from cytology to HPV-based screening. Future work should 
include researching (i) the attitudes of women who test HPV positive/cytology 
negative, (ii) the value of complementary biomarkers and (iii) activities 
relevant to primary HPV screening in unvaccinated and vaccinated populations 
from the point of view of QALY assessment.
STUDY REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN25417821.

DOI: 10.3310/hta18230
PMCID: PMC4781243
PMID: 24762804 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Environ Entomol. 2014 Apr;43(2):377-83. doi: 10.1603/EN13250.

Effect of Telenomus podisi, Trissolcus urichi, and Trissolcus basalis 
(Hymenoptera: Platygastridae) age on attack of Piezodorus guildinii (Hemiptera: 
Pentatomidae) eggs.

Cingolani MF(1), Greco NM, Liljesthröm GG.

Author information:
(1)Pest Ecology and Biological Control Department, CEPAVE (CCT La Plata 
CONICET-UNLP), Calle 2 # 584, La Plata (B1902CHX), Buenos Aires, Argentina.
