health-related quality of life. An aging US population and improved survival 
rates of patients with cancer have led to an increase in the incidence of 
symptomatic bony metastatic lesions that may require orthopaedic care. 
Skeletal-related events in neoplastic disease include pain, pathologic fracture, 
hypercalcemia, and neural compression, including spinal cord compression. The 
clinical evaluation and diagnostic study of a patient with a skeletal lesion of 
unknown etiology should be approached carefully. In patients with widespread 
metastatic disease, the treatment of a skeletal-related event may be limited to 
stabilization of the pathologic fracture or local disease control. The treatment 
of metastatic bone disease is guided by the nature of the skeletal-related 
event, the responsiveness of the lesion to adjuvant care, and the overall 
condition and survival expectations of the patient. Impending pathologic 
fractures are often more easily treated, with less morbidity and easier recovery 
for patients, than completed fractures. Quality of life is the most important 
outcome measure in these patients. When surgery is indicated, the approach, 
choice of fixation, and use of adjuvant should allow for immediate and 
unrestricted weight bearing. Because metastatic lesions to the skeleton have a 
limited capacity for spontaneous healing, surgical fixation should be durable 
for the life expectancy of the patient. In the epiphyseal region of long bones, 
replacement arthroplasty is generally preferred over internal fixation. 
Metaphyseal and diaphyseal regions can generally be addressed with 
intramedullary nailing or plate fixation with adjuvant. The specific treatment 
of acetabular lesions is dictated by the anatomy and the degree of bone loss. 
Spinal stability and neural compromise are important considerations in choosing 
a strategy for managing spine tumors. Effective surgical approaches to 
metastatic disease of the spine may include vertebral augmentation or open 
decompression and realignment of the spinal column with internal fixation. 
Radiation therapy is an important adjunctive modality in the treatment of 
metastatic bone disease. Medical management consists of symptom control, 
cytotoxic chemotherapy, and targeted therapy. Emerging technologies, including 
radiofrequency ablation, cementoplasty, and advances in intraoperative imaging 
and navigation, show promise in the treatment of metastatic bone disease.

PMID: 24720328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. J Med Econ. 2014 Jun;17(6):408-14. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2014.910217. Epub
2014  Apr 16.

The cost-effectiveness of solifenacin vs. trospium in the treatment of patients 
with overactive bladder in the German National Health Service.

Nazir J(1), Hart WM.

Author information:
(1)Astellas Pharma Europe Ltd , Chertsey, Surrey , UK.

OBJECTIVE: To carry out a cost-utility analysis comparing initial treatment of 
patients with overactive bladder (OAB) with solifenacin 5 mg/day versus either 
trospium 20 mg twice a day or trospium 60 mg/day from the perspective of the 
German National Health Service.
METHODS: A decision analytic model with a 3 month cycle was developed to follow 
a cohort of OAB patients treated with either solifenacin or trospium during a 1 
year period. Costs and utilities were accumulated as patients transitioned 
through the four cycles in the model. Some of the solifenacin patients were 
titrated from 5 mg to 10 mg/day at 3 months. Utility values were obtained from 
the published literature and pad use was based on a US resource utilization 
study. Adherence rates for individual treatments were derived from a United 
Kingdom general practitioner database review. The change in the mean number of 
urgency urinary incontinence episodes/day from after 12 weeks was the main 
outcome measure. Baseline effectiveness values for solifenacin and trospium were 
calculated using the Poisson distribution. Patients who failed second-line 
therapy were referred to a specialist visit. Results were expressed in terms of 
incremental cost-utility ratios.
RESULTS: Total annual costs for solifenacin, trospium 20 mg and trospium 60 mg 
were €970.01, €860.05 and €875.05 respectively. Drug use represented 43%, 28% 
and 29% of total costs and pad use varied between 45% and 57%. Differences 
between cumulative utilities were small but favored solifenacin (0.6857 vs. 
0.6802 to 0.6800). The baseline incremental cost-effectiveness ratio ranged from 
€16,657 to €19,893 per QALY.
LIMITATIONS: The difference in cumulative utility favoring solifenacin was small 
(0.0055-0.0057 QALYs). A small absolute change in the cumulative utilities can 
have a marked impact on the overall incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) and care should be taken when interpreting the results.
CONCLUSION: Solifenacin would appear to be cost-effective with an ICER of no 
more than €20,000/QALY. However, small differences in utility between the 
alternatives means that the results are sensitive to adjustments in the values 
of the assigned utilities, effectiveness and discontinuation rates.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2014.910217
PMID: 24720775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. J Med Econ. 2014 Jul;17(7):508-19. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2014.914030. Epub
2014  Apr 30.

Cost-effectiveness of asenapine in the treatment of bipolar I disorder patients 
with mixed episodes.

Sawyer L(1), Azorin JM, Chang S, Rinciog C, Guiraud-Diawara A, Marre C, Hansen 
K.

Author information:
(1)Symmetron Limited , Borehamwood , UK.

OBJECTIVE: Around one-third of patients with bipolar I disorder (BD-I) 
experience mixed episodes, characterized by both mania and depression, which 
tend to be more difficult and costly to treat. Atypical antipsychotics are 
recommended for the treatment of mixed episodes, although evidence of their 
efficacy, tolerability, and cost in these patients is limited. This study 
evaluates, from a UK National Health Service perspective, the cost-effectiveness 
of asenapine vs olanzapine in BD-I patients with mixed episodes.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness was assessed using a Markov model. Efficacy was 
informed by a post-hoc analysis of two short-term clinical trials, with response 
measured as a composite Young Mania Rating Score and Montgomery-Åsberg 
Depression Rating Scale end-point. Probabilities of discontinuation and relapse 
to manic, mixed, and depressive episodes were sourced from published 
meta-analyses. Direct costs (2012-2013 values) included drug acquisition, 
monitoring, and resource use related to bipolar disorder as well as selected 
adverse events. Benefits were measured as quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
RESULTS: For treating mixed episodes, asenapine generated 0.0187 more QALYs for 
an additional cost of £24 compared to olanzapine over a 5-year period, 
corresponding to a £1302 incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. The higher 
acquisition cost of asenapine was roughly offset by the healthcare savings 
conferred through its greater efficacy in treating these patients. The model 
shows that benefits were driven by earlier response to asenapine during acute 
treatment and were maintained during longer-term follow-up. RESULTS were 
sensitive to changes in key parameters including short and longer-term efficacy, 
unit cost, and utilities, but conclusions remained relatively robust.
CONCLUSIONS: RESULTS suggest that asenapine is a cost-effective alternative to 
olanzapine in mixed episode BD-I patients, and may have specific advantages in 
this population, potentially leading to healthcare sector savings and improved 
outcomes. Limitations of the analysis stem from gaps in clinical and economic 
evidence for these patients and should be addressed by future clinical trials.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2014.914030
PMID: 24720805 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. BMC Neurol. 2014 Apr 11;14:83. doi: 10.1186/1471-2377-14-83.

Donepezil and life expectancy in Alzheimer's disease: a retrospective analysis 
in the Tajiri Project.

Meguro K(1), Kasai M, Akanuma K, Meguro M, Ishii H, Yamaguchi S.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatric Behavioral Neurology, CYRIC, Tohoku University, Sendai, 
Miyagi 980-8575, Japan. k-meg@umin.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: Cholinesterase inhibitors (ChEIs) such as donepezil have the effect 
of delaying progression of Alzheimer's disease (AD), but their effect on life 
expectancy is unclear. We analyzed the influence of donepezil on life expectancy 
after onset of AD, together with the effects of antipsychotic drugs and 
residency in a nursing home.
METHODS: All outpatients at the Tajiri Clinic from 1999-2012 with available 
medical records and death certificates were included in a retrospective 
analysis. The entry criteria were a dementia diagnosis based on DSM-IV criteria 
and diagnosis of AD using NINCDS-ADRDA criteria; medical treatment for more than 
3 months; and follow up until less than 1 year before death.
RESULTS: We identified 390 subjects with medical records and death certificates, 
of whom 275 had a diagnosis of dementia that met the entry criteria. Of 100 
patients diagnosed with AD, 52 had taken donepezil and 48 patients had not 
received the drug due to treatment prior to the introduction of donepezil in 
1999 in Japan. The lifetime expectancies after onset were 7.9 years in the 
donepezil group and 5.3 years in the non-donepezil group. There was a 
significant drug effect with a significant covariate effect of nursing home 
residency. Other covariates did not reach a significant level.
CONCLUSIONS: Although this report has the limitation of all retrospective 
analyses: the lack of randomization, we found a positive effect of donepezil on 
lifetime expectancy after onset of AD. This may be due to a decreased mortality 
rate caused by reduction of concomitant diseases such as pneumonia. The similar 
life expectancies in patients taking donepezil at home and those not taking 
donepezil in a nursing home indicated a positive health economic effect of the 
drug.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2377-14-83
PMCID: PMC3997195
PMID: 24720852 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. J Vasc Surg. 2014 Sep;60(3):715-25.e2. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2014.03.009. Epub
2014  Apr 8.

A comparison of open and endovascular revascularization for chronic mesenteric 
ischemia in a clinical decision model.

Hogendoorn W(1), Hunink MG(2), Schlösser FJ(3), Moll FL(4), Muhs BE(3), Sumpio 
BE(5).

Author information:
(1)Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Conn; Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, 
University Medical Center, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Radiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; 
Department of Epidemiology, Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands; 
Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, Mass.
(3)Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Conn.
(4)Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, University Medical 
Center, Utrecht, The Netherlands.
(5)Section of Vascular Surgery, Department of Surgery, Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Conn. Electronic address: bauer.sumpio@yale.edu.

OBJECTIVE: Open revascularization (OR) has been the treatment of choice for 
chronic mesenteric ischemia (CMI) for many years, but endovascular 
revascularization (EV) has been increasingly used with good short-term results. 
In this study, we evaluated the comparative effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
of EV and OR in patients with CMI refractory to conservative management.
METHODS: A Markov-state transition model was developed using TreeAge Pro 2012 
(TreeAge Inc, Williamstown, Mass) to simulate a hypothetical cohort of 10,000 
65-year-old female patients with CMI requiring treatment with either OR or EV. 
Data for the model, including perioperative and long-term overall mortality 
risks, disease-specific mortality risks, complications, and reintervention and 
patency rates, were retrieved from original studies and systematic reviews about 
CMI. Costs were analyzed with the 2013 Medicare database. Outcomes evaluated 
were quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), costs from the health care 
perspective, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio. Extensive sensitivity 
analyses were performed and different clinical scenarios evaluated. 
Probabilistic sensitivity analysis was performed to assess robustness of the 
model.
RESULTS: For a reference-case 65-year-old female patient with CMI and an average 
risk for operation, EV is preferred with 10.03 QALYs (95% credibility interval 
[CI], 9.76-10.29) vs 9.59 after OR (95% CI, 9.29-9.87). The difference is 
comparable to 5 months in perfect health: 0.44 QALY (95% CI, 0.13-0.76). For 
65-year-old men, this was 8.71 QALYs (95% CI, 8.48-8.94) for EV vs 8.42 (95% CI, 
8.14-8.63) for OR. Sensitivity analysis showed that for younger patients, EV 
results in a higher increase in QALYs compared with older patients. Total 
expected reinterventions per patient are 1.70 for EV vs 0.30 for OR. Total 
expected health care costs for the reference-case patient were $39,942 (95% CI, 
$28,509-$53,380) for OR and $38.217 (95% CI, $29,329-$48,309) for EV. For men, 
this was $39,375 (95% CI, $28,092-$52,853) for OR and $35,903 (95% CI, 
$27,685-$45,597) for EV. For patients younger than 60 years, EV is a more 
expensive treatment strategy compared with OR, but with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for EV of less than $60,000/QALY. For patients 60 years 
and older, EV dominated OR as preferential treatment because effectiveness was 
higher than for OR and costs were lower.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this decision analysis model suggest that EV is 
favored over OR for patients with CMI in all age groups. Although EV is 
associated with more expected reinterventions, EV appears to be cost-effective 
for all age groups.

Copyright © 2014 Society for Vascular Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2014.03.009
PMID: 24721175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. BMC Public Health. 2014 Apr 10;14:343. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-343.

Perceptions of quality of life among Ugandan patients living with HIV: a 
qualitative study.

Mutabazi-Mwesigire D(1), Seeley J, Martin F, Katamba A.

Author information:
(1)Makerere College of Health Sciences, Makerere University, P,O, Box 7062, 
Kampala, Uganda. dorismutabazi@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Ugandans have endured the HIV epidemic for three decades. Now, with 
the availability of antiretroviral therapy (ART) and early diagnosis, those 
living with HIV can live longer and can enjoy the same life expectancy as the 
rest of the Ugandan population. This emerging trend necessitates the assessment 
of quality of life, alongside other patient outcomes, of those undergoing 
therapy, alongside other patient outcomes. While major strides have been made in 
developing measures of quality of life in the developed world, there remains a 
paucity of evidence from resource-limited settings. This challenge is further 
complicated by the contentious definition of quality of life, which is highly 
subjective and varies between individuals. In this paper, we aim to identify the 
determinants of quality of life for people living with HIV in a Ugandan context 
to contribute to the chronic care model for persons living with HIV/AIDS.
METHODS: Twenty HIV-positive participants took part in in-depth interviews at an 
urban clinic, with follow-ups at three and six months. Ten patients were on ART 
and ten not on ART. All interviews were transcribed and translated for analysis. 
Data were analysed manually using the framework approach to content analysis.
RESULTS: Individuals reported on four aspects of quality of life: liveability of 
the environment, utility of life, life ability of a person and appreciation of 
life. Respondents described multiple expectations and expressed hope for their 
future. However, many still suffered from stigma, fears of disclosure and 
poverty, which negatively affected their quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Individuals living with HIV receiving treatment or in care 
experienced an improved quality of life in this setting, although the situation 
for many remains precarious.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-343
PMCID: PMC3990002
PMID: 24721338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. BMC Health Serv Res. 2014 Apr 10;14:163. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-163.

The cost-utility of open prostatectomy compared with active surveillance in 
early localised prostate cancer.

Koerber F(1), Waidelich R, Stollenwerk B, Rogowski W.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Economics and Health Care Management, Helmholtz Zentrum 
Munich, German Research Center for Environmental Health (GmbH), Ingolstädter 
Landstrasse 1, 85764 Neuherberg, Germany. florian.koerber@helmholtz-muenchen.de.

BACKGROUND: There is an on-going debate about whether to perform surgery on 
early stage localised prostate cancer and risk the common long term side effects 
such as urinary incontinence and erectile dysfunction. Alternatively these 
patients could be closely monitored and treated only in case of disease 
progression (active surveillance). The aim of this paper is to develop a 
decision-analytic model comparing the cost-utility of active surveillance (AS) 
and radical prostatectomy (PE) for a cohort of 65 year old men with newly 
diagnosed low risk prostate cancer.
METHODS: A Markov model comparing PE and AS over a lifetime horizon was 
programmed in TreeAge from a German societal perspective. Comparative disease 
specific mortality was obtained from the Scandinavian Prostate Cancer Group 
trial. Direct costs were identified via national treatment guidelines and expert 
interviews covering in-patient, out-patient, medication, aids and remedies as 
well as out of pocket payments. Utility values were used as factor weights for 
age specific quality of life values of the German population. Uncertainty was 
assessed deterministically and probabilistically.
RESULTS: With quality adjustment, AS was the dominant strategy compared with 
initial treatment. In the base case, it was associated with an additional 0.04 
quality adjusted life years (7.60 QALYs vs. 7.56 QALYs) and a cost reduction of 
€6,883 per patient (2011 prices). Considering only life-years gained, PE was 
more effective with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of €96,420/life year 
gained. Sensitivity analysis showed that the probability of developing 
metastases under AS and utility weights under AS are a major sources of 
uncertainty. A Monte Carlo simulation revealed that AS was more likely to be 
cost-effective even under very high willingness to pay thresholds.
CONCLUSION: AS is likely to be a cost-saving treatment strategy for some 
patients with early stage localised prostate cancer. However, cost-effectiveness 
is dependent on patients' valuation of health states. Better predictability of 
tumour progression and modified reimbursement practice would support widespread 
use of AS in the context of the German health care system. More research is 
necessary in order to reliably quantify the health benefits compared with 
initial treatment and account for patient preferences.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-163
PMCID: PMC4022451
PMID: 24721557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Biochimie. 2014 Jul;102:203-10. doi: 10.1016/j.biochi.2014.03.012. Epub 2014
Apr  8.

Characterization of hyaluronic acid specific hyaluronate lyase (HylP) from 
Streptococcus pyogenes.

Singh SK(1), Malhotra S(1), Akhtar MS(2).

Author information:
(1)CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Sector 10, Jankipuram Extension, 
Sitapur Road, Lucknow 226 031, Uttar Pradesh, India.
(2)CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Sector 10, Jankipuram Extension, 
Sitapur Road, Lucknow 226 031, Uttar Pradesh, India; Academy of Scientific and 
Innovative Research, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, Sector 10, Jankipuram 
Extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow 226 031, Uttar Pradesh, India. Electronic 
address: sohail@cdri.res.in.

Streptococcus pyogenes is associated with a wide variety of mucosal and invasive 
infections that claim human life. The conversion from non pathogenic to 
toxigenic strain of S. pyogenes are thought to be mediated by bacteriophage 
infection in several cases. The hyaluronic acid (HA) degrading enzyme 
Hyaluronate lyase (HL) is proposed to be one of the key bacteriophage-encoded 
virulence factors. In the present work, HL of S. pyogenes bacteriophage H4489A 
(HylP) was expressed in Escherichia coli, purified and their structural and 
functional properties were studied. The enzyme exists in an extended trimeric 
conformation whose function is influenced by calcium ions. The collagenous 
Gly-X-Y motif of the enzyme influences stability and interact with calcium ions 
suggesting its role in the enzyme regulation The HylP shows sequential unfolding 
through the N-terminal domain. The primary catalytic residues of the enzyme seem 
to be in the first pocket consisting of Asp170 and Tyr182; however the enzyme 
activity is considerably reduced with mutation in the second pocket consisting 
of Glu295 and Tyr298. The catalytic residues span between the regions containing 
135-308 amino acids where both the catalytic pocket has a prominent positively 
charged residue. The net positive potential of the cleft may help in recruiting 
the negatively charged polymeric HA. Interestingly, unlike other phage HLs, HylP 
is inhibited by l-ascorbic through non competitive manner.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.biochi.2014.03.012
PMID: 24721581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Waste Manag. 2014 Jul;34(7):1335-50. doi: 10.1016/j.wasman.2014.02.019. Epub
 2014 Apr 8.

Dynamic stock and end-of-life flow identification based on the internal cycle 
model and mean-age monitoring.

Tsiliyannis CA(1).

Author information:
(1)ANION Environmental Ltd., 26 Lykoudi Str., Athens GR 11141, Greece. 
Electronic address: anion@otenet.gr.

Planning of end-of-life (EoL) product take-back systems and sizing of 
dismantling and recycling centers, entails the EoL flow (EoLF) that originates 
from the product dynamic stock (DS). Several uncertain factors (economic, 
technological, health, social and environmental) render both the EoLF and the 
remaining stock uncertain. Early losses of products during use due to 
biodegradation, wear and uncertain factors such as withdrawals and exports of 
used, may diminish the stock and the EoLF. Life expectancy prediction methods 
are static, ignoring early losses and inapt under dynamic conditions. Existing 
dynamic methods, either consider a single uncertain factor (e.g. GDP) 
approximately or heuristically modelled and ignore other factors that may become 
dominant, or assume cognizance of DS and of the center axis of the EoL exit 
distribution that are unknown for most products. As a result, reliable dynamic 
EoLF prediction for both durables and consumer end-products is still 
challenging. The present work develops an identification method for estimating 
the early loss and DS and predicting the dynamic EoLF, based on available input 
data (production+net imports) and on sampled measurements of the stock mean-age 
and the EoLF mean-age. The mean ages are scaled quantities, slowly varying, even 
under dynamic conditions and can be reliably determined, even from small size 
and/or frequent samples. The method identifies the early loss sequence, as well 
as the center axis and spread of the EoL exit distribution, which are 
subsequently used to determine the DS and EoLF profiles, enabling consistent and 
reliable predictions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wasman.2014.02.019
PMID: 24721623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Hum Mol Genet. 2014 Sep 1;23(17):4559-68. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddu169. Epub 2014
Apr  9.

Defining the therapeutic window in a severe animal model of spinal muscular 
atrophy.

Robbins KL(1), Glascock JJ(2), Osman EY(2), Miller MR(3), Lorson CL(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, Christopher S. Bond Life Sciences 
Center.
(2)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, Christopher S. Bond Life Sciences 
Center, Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, University of 
Missouri School of Medicine and.
(3)Genetics Area Program, Christopher S. Bond Life Sciences Center, University 
of Missouri, Columbia, MO 65211, USA.
(4)Department of Veterinary Pathobiology, Christopher S. Bond Life Sciences 
Center, Department of Molecular Microbiology and Immunology, University of 
Missouri School of Medicine and lorsonc@missouri.edu.

Spinal muscular atrophy (SMA) is a neurodegenerative disease caused by the loss 
of a single gene, Survival Motor Neuron-1 (SMN1). Administration of a 
self-complementary Adeno-Associated Virus vector expressing full-length SMN cDNA 
(scAAV-SMN) has proven an effective means to rescue the SMA phenotype in SMA 
mice, either by intravenous (IV) or intracerebroventricular (ICV) administration 
at very early time points. We have recently shown that ICV delivery of 
scAAV9-SMN is more effective than a similar dose of vector administered via an 
IV injection, thereby providing an important mechanism to examine a timeline for 
rescuing the disease and determining the therapeutic window in a severe model of 
SMA. In this report, we utilized a relatively severe mouse model of SMA, SMNΔ7. 
Animals were injected with scAAV9-SMN vector via ICV injection on a single day, 
from P2 through P8. At each delivery point from P2 through P8, scAAV9-SMN 
decreased disease severity. A near complete rescue was obtained following P2 
injection while a P8 injection produced a ∼ 40% extension in survival. Analysis 
of the underlying neuromuscular junction (NMJ) pathology revealed that 
late-stage delivery of the vector failed to provide protection from NMJ defects 
despite robust SMN expression in the central nervous system. While our study 
demonstrates that a maximal benefit is obtained when treatment is delivered 
during pre-symptomatic stages, significant therapeutic benefit can still be 
achieved after the onset of disease symptoms.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddu169
PMCID: PMC4119406
PMID: 24722206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Lung. 2014 Jun;192(3):339-46. doi: 10.1007/s00408-014-9575-8. Epub 2014 Apr
11.

A center's experience: pulmonary function in spinal cord injury.

Schilero GJ(1), Radulovic M, Wecht JM, Spungen AM, Bauman WA, Lesser M.

Author information:
(1)The James J. Peters VA Medical Center, Bronx, NY, 10468, USA, 
greg.schilero@va.gov.

Traumatic spinal cord injury (SCI) is associated with significant psychological 
and physical challenges. A multidisciplinary approach to management is essential 
to ensure recovery during the acute phase, and comprehensive rehabilitative 
strategies are necessary to foster independence and quality of life throughout 
the chronic phase of injury. Complications that beset these individuals are 
often a unique consequence of SCI, and knowledge of the effects of SCI upon 
organ systems is essential for appropriate management. According to the National 
SCI Statistical Center (NSCISC), as of 2010 there were an estimated 265,000 
persons living with SCI in the United States, with approximately 12,000 
incidence cases annually. Although life expectancy for newly injured individuals 
with SCI is markedly reduced, persons with chronic SCI are expected to live 
about as long as individuals without SCI; however, longevity varies inversely 
with level of injury. Since 2005, 56 % of persons with SCI are tetraplegic, and 
due to paralysis of respiratory muscles, these individuals may be especially 
prone to pulmonary complications, which remain a major cause of mortality among 
persons with chronic SCI. We at the VA Rehabilitation Research and Development 
Center of Excellence for the Medical Consequences of SCI at the James J. Peters 
VA Medical Center have devoted more than 25 years to the study of secondary 
medical conditions that complicate SCI. Herein, we review pulmonary research at 
the Center, both our past and future endeavors, which form an integral part of 
our multidisciplinary approach toward achieving a greater understanding of and 
improving care for veterans with SCI.

DOI: 10.1007/s00408-014-9575-8
PMID: 24723067 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Duodecim. 2014;130(6):565-72.

[Treatment of esophageal cancer].

[Article in Finnish]

Sihvo E, Anttonen A, Huuhtanen R.

Treatment of choice for esophageal cancer requires multidisciplinary 
collaboration and requires careful assessment of the stage of the tumor and the 
patient's condition. When the cancer has extended or if the patient will not 
tolerate burdensome treatments, the possibilities of oncological therapies must 
be evaluated. The ability to eat must be secured and the quality of life 
optimized by using palliative means. Surgery still plays a central role in 
striving for curative treatment. Surgical techniques and results have improved, 
and the five-year life expectancy of patients having undergone surgery is over 
40%.

PMID: 24724455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Addict Biol. 2015 May;20(3):490-9. doi: 10.1111/adb.12146. Epub 2014 Apr 13.

Light alcohol intake during adolescence induces alcohol addiction in a 
neurodevelopmental model of schizophrenia.

Jeanblanc J(1), Balguerie K, Coune F, Legastelois R, Jeanblanc V, Naassila M.

Author information:
(1)Groupe de Recherche sur l'Alcool et les Pharmacodépendances-INSERM ERI 24, 
UFR de Pharmacie, SFR CAP Santé, Université de Picardie Jules Verne, France.

Schizophrenia is a mental disorder characterized by a series of positive, 
negative or cognitive symptoms but with also the particularity of exhibiting a 
high rate of co-morbid use of drugs of abuse. While more than 80% of 
schizophrenics are smokers, the second most consumed drug is alcohol, with 
dramatic consequences on frequency and intensity of psychotic episodes and on 
life expectancy. Here we investigated the impact of light alcohol intake during 
adolescence on the subsequent occurrence of alcohol addiction-like behavior in 
neonatal ventral hippocampal lesion (NVHL) rats, a neurodevelopmental model of 
schizophrenia. Our findings demonstrated an increased liability to addictive 
behaviors in adult NVHL rats after voluntary alcohol intake during adolescence. 
NVHL rats displayed several signs of alcohol use disorder such as a loss of 
control over alcohol intake and high motivation to consume alcohol, associated 
with a higher resistance to extinction. In addition, once NVHL rats relapsed, 
they maintained higher drinking levels than controls. We finally showed that the 
anti-addictive drug naltrexone is efficient in reducing excessive alcohol intake 
in NVHL rats. Our results are in accordance with epidemiological studies 
underlying the particular vulnerability to alcohol addiction after adolescent 
exposure to alcohol and highlight the fact that schizophrenic subjects may be 
particularly at risk even after light alcohol consumption. Based on these 
results, it seems particularly relevant to prevent early onset of alcohol use in 
at-risk subjects and thus to reduce the incidence of co-morbid alcohol abuse in 
psychotic patients.

© 2014 Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/adb.12146
PMID: 24725220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Lancet. 2014 May 31;383(9932):1921-32. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)62145-5.
Epub  2014 Apr 8.

Atrial septal defects.

Geva T(1), Martins JD(2), Wald RM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Boston Children's Hospital, and Department of 
Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA. Electronic address: 
tal.geva@cardio.chboston.org.
(2)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Hospital de Santa Marta, Centro 
Hospitalar de Lisboa Central, Lisbon, Portugal.
(3)Toronto Congenital Cardiac Centre for Adults, Peter Munk Cardiac Centre, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

Atrial septal defects are the third most common type of congenital heart 
disease. Included in this group of malformations are several types of atrial 
communications that allow shunting of blood between the systemic and the 
pulmonary circulations. Most children with isolated atrial septal defects are 
free of symptoms, but the rates of exercise intolerance, atrial 
tachyarrhythmias, right ventricular dysfunction, and pulmonary hypertension 
increase with advancing age and life expectancy is reduced in adults with 
untreated defects. The risk of development of pulmonary vascular disease, a 
potentially lethal complication, is higher in female patients and in older 
adults with untreated defects. Surgical closure is safe and effective and when 
done before age 25 years is associated with normal life expectancy. 
Transcatheter closure offers a less invasive alternative for patients with a 
secundum defect who fulfil anatomical and size criteria. In this Seminar we 
review the causes, anatomy, pathophysiology, treatment, and outcomes of atrial 
septal defects in children and adult patients in whom this defect is the primary 
cardiac anomaly.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(13)62145-5
PMID: 24725467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. Urol Clin North Am. 2014 May;41(2):237-47. doi: 10.1016/j.ucl.2014.01.009.

International perspectives on screening.

Roobol MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Erasmus University Medical Center, PO Box 2040, 
Rotterdam 3000 CA, The Netherlands. Electronic address: m.roobol@erasmusmc.nl.

The estimated population of the world in 2008 was 6.75 billion people, 
increasing by around 79 million people each year. The world population is aging. 
In 1970, the world median age was 22 years; it is projected to reach 38 years by 
2050. The number of people in the world aged 60 years and older is expected to 
almost triple to 2 billion by 2050. Because cancer, especially prostate cancer, 
is predominantly a disease of the elderly, increases in the number of older 
people will lead to more cases of cancer, even if current incidence rates remain 
the same.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ucl.2014.01.009
PMID: 24725486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Dis Mon. 2014 Apr;60(4):138-44. doi: 10.1016/j.disamonth.2014.02.001.

Gender and health disparities: the case of male gender.

Lipsky MS, Cannon M, Lutfiyya MN.

DOI: 10.1016/j.disamonth.2014.02.001
PMID: 24726080 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


891. Arch Gerontol Geriatr. 2014 Jul-Aug;59(1):175-80. doi: 
10.1016/j.archger.2014.03.005. Epub 2014 Mar 26.

Changes in the clinical features of older patients admitted from the emergency 
department.

De Brauwer I(1), D'Hoore W(2), Swine C(3), Thys F(4), Beguin C(5), Cornette 
P(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Society (IRSS), Université catholique de Louvain, 
Clos Chapelle-aux-Champs n°30 B1.30.15, 1200 Brussels, Belgium; Department of 
Geriatric Medicine, Cliniques universitaires Saint Luc, Avenue Hippocrate n°10, 
1200 Brussels, Belgium. Electronic address: isabelle.debrauwer@uclouvain.be.
(2)Institute of Health and Society (IRSS), Université catholique de Louvain, 
Clos Chapelle-aux-Champs n°30 B1.30.15, 1200 Brussels, Belgium.
(3)Institute of Health and Society (IRSS), Université catholique de Louvain, 
Clos Chapelle-aux-Champs n°30 B1.30.15, 1200 Brussels, Belgium; Department of 
Geriatric Medicine, Centre hospitalier universitaire Mont-Godinne, Avenue G. 
Therasse n°1, 5530 Yvoir, Belgium.
(4)Department of Emergency Medicine, Cliniques universitaires Saint Luc, Avenue 
Hippocrate n°10, 1200 Brussels, Belgium.
(5)Medical Information and Statistics, Cliniques universitaires Saint Luc, 
Avenue Hippocrate n°10, 1200 Brussels, Belgium.
(6)Institute of Health and Society (IRSS), Université catholique de Louvain, 
Clos Chapelle-aux-Champs n°30 B1.30.15, 1200 Brussels, Belgium; Department of 
Geriatric Medicine, Cliniques universitaires Saint Luc, Avenue Hippocrate n°10, 
1200 Brussels, Belgium.

Demographic changes and healthcare reforms may impact the profile of 
hospitalized older persons. In this study, we sought to compare the 
characteristics of two prospective cohorts recruited at a ten-year interval 
(1999, n=253-2009, n=355). They included older patients (≥75 years) admitted 
through the emergency department for at least 48 h in acute non-geriatric wards 
in the same university hospital. The exclusion criteria were patients who were 
admitted directly to the intensive care unit, who were dependent for all 6 
Activities of Daily Living (ADL), who had recently suffered from a major stroke, 
or whose with a life expectancy of less than 3 months. Median age was higher in 
2009 than in 1999 (83 vs. 81; p=0.020), with a higher proportion of those aged 
85 years and over (p=0.026). Patients in the 2009 cohort were less likely to 
live in a nursing home (p=0.018), more dependent for the basic ADL (p<0.001), 
more independent for the instrumental ADL (p<0.001). They were more likely to 
have fallen in the previous year (p<0.001). They took more medications 
(p<0.001). Their length-of-stay was shorter (p<0.001), but they were more likely 
to be discharged to a rehabilitation center (p<0.001). They underwent more early 
re-admissions (p=0.020) and similar 3-month functional decline (p=0.614). In 
conclusion, within a decade, the social, functional and medical characteristics 
of older patients admitted to hospital have changed significantly. In view of 
the high consumption of in-patient services by this population, hospitals must 
adapt to these rapid changes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.archger.2014.03.005
PMID: 24726321 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Jul 15;89(4):773-83. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.02.012. Epub 2014 Apr 9.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of intensity modulated radiation therapy versus 
3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy for anal cancer.

Hodges JC(1), Beg MS(2), Das P(3), Meyer J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas. Electronic address: joseph.hodges@utsouthwestern.edu.
(2)Division of Hematology and Oncology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, Texas.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical 
Center, Dallas, Texas.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Jul 15;89(4):784-5.
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2015 Jan 1;91(1):246.

PURPOSE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of intensity modulated radiation 
therapy (IMRT) and 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy (3D-CRT) for anal 
cancer and determine disease, patient, and treatment parameters that influence 
the result.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A Markov decision model was designed with the various 
disease states for the base case of a 65-year-old patient with anal cancer 
treated with either IMRT or 3D-CRT and concurrent chemotherapy. Health states 
accounting for rates of local failure, colostomy failure, treatment breaks, 
patient prognosis, acute and late toxicities, and the utility of toxicities were 
informed by existing literature and analyzed with deterministic and 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: In the base case, mean costs and quality-adjusted life expectancy in 
years (QALY) for IMRT and 3D-CRT were $32,291 (4.81) and $28,444 (4.78), 
respectively, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
$128,233/QALY for IMRT compared with 3D-CRT. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis 
found that IMRT was cost-effective in 22%, 47%, and 65% of iterations at 
willingness-to-pay thresholds of $50,000, $100,000, and $150,000 per QALY, 
respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: In our base model, IMRT was a cost-ineffective strategy despite the 
reduced acute treatment toxicities and their associated costs of management. The 
model outcome was sensitive to variations in local and colostomy failure rates, 
as well as patient-reported utilities relating to acute toxicities.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.02.012
PMID: 24726392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. Neurosci Biobehav Rev. 2014 Oct;46 Pt 3:345-51. doi: 
10.1016/j.neubiorev.2014.03.025. Epub 2014 Apr 13.

Lifelong opioidergic vulnerability through early life separation: a recent 
extension of the false suffocation alarm theory of panic disorder.

Preter M(1), Klein DF(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia 
University, New York, NY, USA. Electronic address: mp2285@columbia.edu.
(2)Phyllis Green and Randolph Cowen Institute for Pediatric Neuroscience, 
Department of Child and Adolescent Psychiatry, New York University Langone 
Medical Center, 550 1st Ave, New York, NY 10016, USA. Electronic address: 
donaldk737@aol.com.

The present paper is the edited version of our presentations at the "First World 
Symposium On Translational Models Of Panic Disorder", in Vitoria, E.S., Brazil, 
on November 16-18, 2012. We also review relevant work that appeared after the 
conference. Suffocation-False Alarm Theory (Klein, 1993) postulates the 
existence of an evolved physiologic suffocation alarm system that monitors 
information about potential suffocation. Panic attacks maladaptively occur when 
the alarm is erroneously triggered. The expanded Suffocation-False Alarm Theory 
(Preter and Klein, 2008) hypothesizes that endogenous opioidergic dysregulation 
may underlie the respiratory pathophysiology and suffocation sensitivity in 
panic disorder. Opioidergic dysregulation increases sensitivity to CO2, 
separation distress and panic attacks. That sudden loss, bereavement and 
childhood separation anxiety are also antecedents of "spontaneous" panic 
requires an integrative explanation. Our work unveiling the lifelong endogenous 
opioid system impairing effects of childhood parental loss (CPL) and parental 
separation in non-ill, normal adults opens a new experimental, investigatory 
area.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neubiorev.2014.03.025
PMCID: PMC4195810
PMID: 24726574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. J Vasc Surg. 2014 Aug;60(2):383-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2014.02.059. Epub 2014
Apr  14.

Predictive scoring model of mortality after surgical or endovascular 
revascularization in patients with critical limb ischemia.

Shiraki T(1), Iida O(2), Takahara M(3), Okamoto S(2), Kitano I(4), Tsuji Y(4), 
Terashi H(5), Uematsu M(2).

Author information:
(1)Kansai Rosai Hospital Cardiovascular Center, Hyogo, Japan. Electronic 
address: Shiraki.tatsuya@gmail.com.
(2)Kansai Rosai Hospital Cardiovascular Center, Hyogo, Japan.
(3)Department of Metabolic Medicine, Osaka University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Osaka, Japan.
(4)Department of Surgery, Shinsuma General Hospital, Hyogo, Japan.
(5)Department of Plastic Surgery, Kobe University of Medicine, Hyogo, Japan.

OBJECTIVE: The latest guideline points to life expectancy of <2 years as the 
main determinant in revascularization modality selection (bypass surgery [BSX] 
or endovascular therapy [EVT]) in patients with critical limb ischemia (CLI). 
This study examined predictors and a predictive scoring model of 2-year 
mortality after revascularization.
METHODS: We performed Cox proportional hazards regression analysis of data in a 
retrospective database, the Bypass and Endovascular therapy Against Critical 
limb ischemia from Hyogo (BEACH) registry, of 459 consecutive CLI patients who 
underwent revascularization (396 EVT and 63 BSX cases between January 2007 and 
December 2011) to determine predictors of 2-year mortality. The predictive 
performance of the score was assessed with the area under the time-dependent 
receiver operating characteristic curve.
RESULTS: Of 459 CLI patients (mean age, 72 ± 10 years; 64% male; 49% 
nonambulatory status, 68% diabetes mellitus, 47% on regular dialysis, and 18% 
rest pain and 82% tissue loss as treatment indication), 84 died within 2 years 
after revascularization. In a multivariate model, age >75 years (hazard ratio 
[HR], 1.77; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.10-2.85), nonambulatory status (HR, 
5.32; 95% CI, 2.96-9.56), regular dialysis (HR, 1.90; 95% CI, 1.10-3.26), and 
ejection fraction <50% (HR, 2.49; 95% CI, 1.48-4.20) were independent predictors 
of 2-year mortality. The area under the time-dependent receiver operating 
characteristic curve for the developed predictive BEACH score was 0.81 (95% CI, 
0.76-0.86).
CONCLUSIONS: Predictors of 2-year mortality after EVT or BSX in CLI patients 
included age >75 years, nonambulatory status, regular dialysis, and ejection 
fraction <50%. The BEACH score derived from these predictors allows risk 
stratification of CLI patients undergoing revascularization.

Copyright © 2014 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Mosby, Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2014.02.059
PMID: 24726827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Resuscitation. 2014 Aug;85(8):1052-8. doi:
10.1016/j.resuscitation.2014.03.312.  Epub 2014 Apr 12.

Predictors of long-term survival after out-of-hospital cardiac arrest: the 
impact of Activities of Daily Living and Cerebral Performance Category scores.

Pachys G(1), Kaufman N(2), Bdolah-Abram T(3), Kark JD(4), Einav S(5).

Author information:
(1)Hebrew University-Hadassah Faculty of Medicine, Ein Kerem, Jerusalem, Israel; 
Paramedic, Magen David Adom, Jerusalem, Israel.
(2)Intensive Care Unit, Department of Emergency Medicine, Shaare Zedek Medical 
Center, Jerusalem, Israel.
(3)Hebrew University-Hadassah Faculty of Medicine, Ein Kerem, Jerusalem, Israel.
(4)Epidemiology Unit, Hebrew University-Hadassah Braun School of Public Health 
and Community Medicine, Ein Kerem, Jerusalem, Israel.
(5)Hebrew University-Hadassah Faculty of Medicine, Ein Kerem, Jerusalem, Israel; 
Surgical Intensive Care, Shaare Zedek Medical Center, Israel. Electronic 
address: einav_s@szmc.org.il.

BACKGROUND: Current focus on immediate survival from out-of-hospital cardiac 
arrest (OHCA) has diverted attention away from the variables potentially 
affecting long-term survival.
AIM: To determine the relationship between neurological and functional status at 
hospital discharge and long-term survival after OHCA.
METHODS: Prospective data collection for all OHCA patients aged >18 years in the 
Jerusalem district (n=1043, 2008-2009).
PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURE: Length of survival after OHCA. Potential predictors: 
Activities of Daily Living (ADL) and Cerebral Performance Category (CPC) scores 
at hospital discharge, age and sex.
RESULTS: There were 52/279 (18.6%) survivors to hospital discharge. Fourteen 
were discharged on mechanical ventilation (27%). Interviews with survivors 
and/or their legal guardians were sought 2.8±0.6 years post-arrest. Eighteen 
died before long-term follow-up (median survival 126 days, IQR 94-740). Six 
improved their ADL and CPC scores between discharge and follow-up. Long-term 
survival was positively related with lower CPC scores (p=0.002) and less 
deterioration in ADL from before the arrest to hospital discharge (p=0.001). For 
each point increment in ADL at hospital discharge, the hazard ratio of death was 
1.31 (95%CI 1.12, 1.53, p=0.001); this remained unchanged after adjustment for 
age and sex (HR 1.26, 95%CI 0.07, 1.48, p=0.005).
CONCLUSIONS: One-third of the patients discharged from hospital after OHCA died 
within 30 months of the event. Long-term survival was associated both with 
better neurological and functional level at hospital discharge and a smaller 
decrease in functional limitation from before to after the arrest, yet some 
patients with a poor neurological outcome survived prolonged periods after 
hospital discharge.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.resuscitation.2014.03.312
PMID: 24727137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


896. G3 (Bethesda). 2014 Apr 11;4(6):1123-33. doi: 10.1534/g3.114.010629.

A recent global selective sweep on the age-1 phosphatidylinositol 3-OH kinase 
regulator of the insulin-like signaling pathway within Caenorhabditis remanei.

Jovelin R(1), Comstock JS(2), Cutter AD(3), Phillips PC(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Oregon, Oregon 97403 
Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto, Ontario 
M5S 3B2, Canada.
(2)Institute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Oregon, Oregon 97403.
(3)Department of Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Toronto, 
Ontario M5S 3B2, Canada.
(4)Institute of Ecology and Evolution, University of Oregon, Oregon 97403 
pphil@uoregon.edu.

The discovery that genetic pathways can be manipulated to extend lifespan has 
revolutionized our understanding of aging, yet their function within natural 
populations remains poorly characterized. In particular, evolutionary theories 
of aging predict tradeoffs in resource investment toward somatic maintenance vs. 
reproductive output that should impose strong natural selection on genetic 
components that influence this balance. To explore such selective pressure at 
the molecular level, we examine population genetic variation in the insulin-like 
signaling pathway of the nematode Caenorhabditis remanei. We document a recent 
global selective sweep on the phosphoinositide-3-kinase pathway regulator, 
age-1, the first life-extension gene to have been identified. In particular, we 
find that age-1 has 5-20 times less genetic variation than any other 
insulin-like signaling pathway components and that evolutionary signatures of 
selection center on the age-1 locus within its genomic environment. These 
results demonstrate that critical components of aging-related pathways can be 
subject to shifting patterns of strong selection, as predicted by theory. This 
highly polymorphic outcrossing species offers high-resolution, population-level 
analyses of molecular variation as a complement to functional genetic studies 
within the self-reproducing C. elegans model system.

Copyright © 2014 Jovelin et al.

DOI: 10.1534/g3.114.010629
PMCID: PMC4065255
PMID: 24727287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


897. Cornea. 2014 Jun;33(6):e3. doi: 10.1097/ICO.0000000000000126.

Keratoconus and age association: a possible age cohort effect.

Fotouhi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

Comment in
    Cornea. 2014 Jul;33(7):e5.

Comment on
    Cornea. 2013 Apr;32(4):496-502.

DOI: 10.1097/ICO.0000000000000126
PMID: 24727638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


898. Ann Intern Med. 2014 Feb 18;160(4):221-32. doi: 10.7326/M13-1999.

Cost-effectiveness of genotype-guided and dual antiplatelet therapies in acute 
coronary syndrome.

Kazi DS, Garber AM, Shah RU, Dudley RA, Mell MW, Rhee C, Moshkevich S, Boothroyd 
DB, Owens DK, Hlatky MA.

Comment in
    Ann Intern Med. 2014 Feb 18;160(4):284-5.
    Ann Intern Med. 2014 Sep 2;161(5):378.
    Ann Intern Med. 2014 Sep 2;161(5):378-9.

BACKGROUND: The choice of antiplatelet therapy after acute coronary syndrome 
(ACS) is complicated: Ticagrelor and prasugrel are novel alternatives to 
clopidogrel, patients with some genotypes may not respond to clopidogrel, and 
low-cost generic formulations of clopidogrel are available.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the most cost-effective strategy for dual antiplatelet 
therapy after percutaneous coronary intervention for ACS.
DESIGN: Decision-analytic model.
DATA SOURCES: Published literature, Medicare claims, and life tables.
TARGET POPULATION: Patients having percutaneous coronary intervention for ACS.
TIME HORIZON: Lifetime.
PERSPECTIVE: Societal.
INTERVENTION: Five strategies were examined: generic clopidogrel, prasugrel, 
ticagrelor, and genotyping for polymorphisms of CYP2C19 with carriers of 
loss-of-function alleles receiving either ticagrelor (genotyping with 
ticagrelor) or prasugrel (genotyping with prasugrel) and noncarriers receiving 
clopidogrel.
OUTCOME MEASURES: Direct medical costs, quality-adjusted life years(QALYs), and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS OF BASE-CASE ANALYSIS: The clopidogrel strategy produced$179 301 in 
costs and 9.428 QALYs. Genotyping with prasugrel was superior to prasugrel 
alone, with an ICER of $35 800 per QALY relative to clopidogrel. Genotyping with 
ticagrelor was more effective than genotyping with prasugrel ($30 200 per QALY 
relative to clopidogrel). Ticagrelor was the most effective strategy($52 600 per 
QALY relative to genotyping with ticagrelor).
RESULTS OF SENSITIVITY ANALYSIS: Stronger associations between genotype and 
thrombotic outcomes rendered ticagrelor substantially less cost-effective ($104 
800 per QALY). Genotyping with prasugrel was the preferred therapy among 
patients who could not tolerate ticagrelor.
LIMITATION: No randomized trials have directly compared genotyping strategies or 
prasugrel with ticagrelor.
CONCLUSION: Genotype-guided personalization may improve the cost-effectiveness 
of prasugrel and ticagrelor after percutaneous coronary intervention for ACS, 
but ticagrelor for all patients may bean economically reasonable alternative in 
some settings.

