(6)Ministerio de Salud, San José, Costa Rica.

This paper reports the most cost-effective policy options to support and improve 
breast cancer control in Costa Rica and Mexico. Total costs and effects of 
breast cancer interventions were estimated using the health care perspective and 
WHO-CHOICE methodology. Effects were measured in disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) averted. Costs were assessed in 2009 United States Dollars (US$). To the 
extent available, analyses were based on locally obtained data. In Costa Rica, 
the current strategy of treating breast cancer in stages I to IV at a 80% 
coverage level seems to be the most cost-effective with an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of US$4,739 per DALY averted. At a coverage 
level of 95%, biennial clinical breast examination (CBE) screening could improve 
Costa Rica's population health twofold, and can still be considered very 
cost-effective (ICER US$5,964/DALY). For Mexico, our results indicate that at 
95% coverage a mass-media awareness raising program (MAR) could be the most 
cost-effective (ICER US$5,021/DALY). If more resources are available in Mexico, 
biennial mammography screening for women 50-70 yrs (ICER US$12,718/DALY), adding 
trastuzumab (ICER US$13,994/DALY) or screening women 40-70 yrs biennially plus 
trastuzumab (ICER US$17,115/DALY) are less cost-effective options. We recommend 
both Costa Rica and Mexico to engage in MAR, CBE or mammography screening 
programs, depending on their budget. The results of this study should be 
interpreted with caution however, as the evidence on the intervention 
effectiveness is uncertain. Also, these programs require several organizational, 
budgetary and human resources, and the accessibility of breast cancer 
diagnostic, referral, treatment and palliative care facilities should be 
improved simultaneously. A gradual implementation of early detection programs 
should give the respective Ministries of Health the time to negotiate the 
required budget, train the required human resources and understand possible 
socioeconomic barriers.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095836
PMCID: PMC4000228
PMID: 24769920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


17. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2014 Jun;145(2):267-79. doi:
10.1007/s10549-014-2950-6.  Epub 2014 Apr 26.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of extended adjuvant endocrine therapy in the 
treatment of post-menopausal women with hormone receptor positive breast cancer.

Erman A(1), Nugent A, Amir E, Coyte PC.

Author information:
(1)Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada.

Five years of Tamoxifen (Standard TAM) is a common treatment option for 
early-stage, hormone receptor positive (HR+) breast cancer (BC). Extending 
Standard TAM by 5 additional years (Extended TAM) can improve survival and BC 
recurrences. In postmenopausal women, the use of extended aromatase inhibitors 
(Extended AI) after Standard TAM is an alternative to Extended TAM. This study 
examines the cost-effectiveness (CE) of extending Standard TAM with Extended TAM 
vs. Extended AI in postmenopausal HR+ early-stage BC patients. Three treatments 
were assessed: (1) Standard TAM; (2) Extended TAM; (3) Extended AI through a 
Markov model using a Canadian health system perspective, lifetime time-horizon, 
quality adjusted life years (QALYs), and a 5 % discount rate for future costs 
and utilities. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated, 
and the impact of parameter uncertainty was assessed through probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses (SA) using conventional CE thresholds. The estimated total 
per person costs in 2012 Canadian dollars [$1.00 CAD = $0.99 US 2012] were the 
least for Extended TAM ($8,623 CAD) and most for Extended AI ($9,432 CAD). 
Extended AI was the most effective regimen, while Standard TAM was the least. 
Extended AI was cost-effective at conventional thresholds vs. Extended TAM 
(ICER: $3,402 CAD/QALY) which was robust to the SA. This study suggests that 
Extended AI and Extended TAM result in improved QALYs and lower healthcare costs 
vs Standard TAM. Extended AI results in the greatest improvement in QALYs and is 
the most cost-effective treatment alternative despite its higher drug costs.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-014-2950-6
PMID: 24771048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


18. Gesundheitswesen. 2015 Mar;77(3):137-47. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1371874. Epub
2014  Apr 25.

[Are health inequalities increasing with time? Results of a literature review 
and recommendations for further research].

[Article in German]

Maron J(1), Mielck A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Gesundheitsökonomie und Management im Gesundheitswesen, 
Helmholtz Zentrum München, Neuherberg.

It has been shown that socio-economic status (SES) and health are closely linked 
to one another. Now we focus on further questions, and one of the most important 
ones is whether these "health inequalities" increase with time. In Germany, 
there is little discussion about this question and no review summarising the 
empirical evidence is available.This review focuses on 4 dimensions: time trends 
of health inequalities concerning mortality (or, respectively, life expectancy), 
self-rated health, smoking and obesity. First we included all empirical analyses 
from Germany, and all analyses from other European countries published between 
2008 and 2012. Then, step-wise, 44 studies (including 5 from Germany) were 
selected by predefined criteria for a detailed -description of empirical results 
and methods.The number of publications has strong-ly increased in recent years, 
illustrating the growing interest in time trends of health inequalities. The 
empirical results of the 44 studies could be summarised in the following way: 
All in all, 184 empirical results are reported about time trends in health 
inequalities and 112 of them show increasing inequalities; decreasing 
inequalities are shown in 13 reports. The studies from Germany point in the same 
direction (i. e., most results indicate increasing health inequalities). It is 
also important to stress that there is great -heterogeneity concerning the 
methodical approaches. Some studies analyse health inequalities by individual 
socio-economic status (e. g., educational level), others by regional 
deprivation. Sometimes changes in the extent of health inequalities over time 
are not calculated explicitly. Some papers do not include absolute and relative 
measures of inequalities, but just one of them.In Germany, there is a need for 
more empirical studies looking at time trends of health inequalities; the 
available datasets should be used more often for this type of analysis. If 
possible, further studies should include individual SES and regional 
deprivation, measures of absolute and relative inequality (stratified by sex, 
with significance tests for time trend), and they should cover as many points in 
time as possible. Also, it would be important to relate the chang-es in health 
inequalities to the other changes in the society.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1371874
PMID: 24771102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


19. Rheumatology (Oxford). 2014 Oct;53(10):1773-7. doi:
10.1093/rheumatology/keu039.  Epub 2014 Apr 25.

Cost-effectiveness of treatment strategies using combination disease-modifying 
anti-rheumatic drugs and glucocorticoids in early rheumatoid arthritis.

Wailoo A(1), Hernández Alava M(2), Scott IC(2), Ibrahim F(2), Scott DL(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
Academic Department of Rheumatology, Centre for Molecular and Cellular Biology 
of Inflammation and Department of Rheumatology, King's College Hospital, London, 
UK. a.j.wailoo@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
Academic Department of Rheumatology, Centre for Molecular and Cellular Biology 
of Inflammation and Department of Rheumatology, King's College Hospital, London, 
UK.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
combination DMARDs with short-term glucocorticoids in early active RA using data 
from the 2-year Combination of Anti-Rheumatic Drugs in Early RA (CARDERA) trial.
METHODS: CARDERA enrolled 467 patients with active RA of <24-months duration. 
All patients received MTX; half received step-down prednisolone and half 
ciclosporin in a placebo-controlled factorial design. Differences in mean costs 
and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) over 24-months follow-up were estimated 
using patient-level data from a UK health service perspective and 2011-12 costs.
RESULTS: Two-year costs for each treatment strategy showed primary care costs 
were negligible across all groups. Drug costs were lowest with MTX/ciclosporin 
and triple therapy. Hospital costs were lowest with MTX/prednisolone and triple 
therapy. Triple therapy was least costly and most effective; it dominated all 
other strategies. At positive values for a QALY in the typical UK range (£20 
000-30 000) the probability that triple therapy was the most cost-effective 
strategy was 0.9. Results were robust to methods used to impute missing data.
CONCLUSION: Intensive treatment of early RA with triple therapy (two DMARDs and 
short-term glucocorticoids) is both clinically effective and cost effective.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Society for Rheumatology. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/rheumatology/keu039
PMID: 24771112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. Geburtshilfe Frauenheilkd. 2013 Jan;73(1):47-52. doi: 10.1055/s-0032-1328172.

Hypertensive Disorders of Pregnancy - A Life-Long Risk?!

Schausberger CE(1), Jacobs VR(1), Bogner G(1), Wolfrum-Ristau P(1), Fischer 
T(1).

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinik für Frauenheilkunde und Geburtshilfe (OB/GYN) der 
Salzburger Landesklinken (SALK) , & Paracelsus Medizinische Universität (PMU).

Background: Arterial hypertension is one of the most important causes of 
cardiovascular diseases, and the latter are responsible for almost half of the 
deaths in the industrialised nations. Hypertensive disorders of pregnancy 
constitute one of the most frequent causes of feto-maternal morbidity and 
mortality; on the other hand the occurrence of a hypertensive disorder of 
pregnancy represents a risk for the later development of hypertension and the 
cardiovascular risks resulting therefrom. The aim of this article is to 
demonstrate the association of hypertensive disorders of pregnancy with 
consecutive cardiovascular diseases. Materials and Methods: Specific selective 
literature research. Results: After the occurrence of a hypertensive disorder of 
pregnancy the relative risks for hypertension are 3.7 (2.70-5.05), for ischaemic 
heart disease 2.2 (1.86-2.52), for cerebral insult 1.8 (1.45-2.27) and for 
mortality resulting from cardiovascular causes 1.5 (1.05-2.14) and are thus 
significant. According to a recent study 56 % of internal specialists and 23 % 
of gynecologists do not know about the association of preeclampsia with ischemic 
heart disease, 48 % and 38 % respectively are not aware of the link with stroke 
and 79 % and 77 % respectively are not aware of the association with a reduced 
life expectancy after preeclampsia. The presence of hypertension is not known by 
many of the patients, merely 28-38 % receive an appropriate therapy. Conclusion: 
Adequate follow-up after hypertensive disorders of pregnancy and the early 
recognition of and therapy for hypertension represent the cornerstones in the 
prevention of late cardiovascular sequelae. General practitioners, specialist 
for internal medicine and gynaecologists have a special responsibility with 
regard to the reduction of later complications.

Publisher: Hintergrund: Die arterielle Hypertonie gehört zu den wichtigsten 
Ursachen für kardiovaskuläre Erkrankungen, letztere sind für fast die Hälfte 
aller Todesfälle in Industrieländern verantwortlich. Hypertensive 
Schwangerschaftserkrankungen gehören zum einen zu den häufigsten Ursachen für 
fetomaternale Morbidität und Mortalität, zum anderen zeigt das Auftreten einer 
hypertensiven Schwangerschaftserkrankung ein Risiko für eine später auftretende 
Hypertonie und das daraus resultierende kardiovaskuläre Risiko auf. Ziel dieses 
Artikels ist es, die Assoziation von hypertensiven Schwangerschaftserkrankungen 
mit später auftretenden kardiovaskulären Erkrankungen darzustellen. Material und 
Methodik: Spezifisch selektive Literaturrecherche. Ergebnisse: Nach Auftreten 
einer hypertensiven Schwangerschaftserkrankung sind die relativen Risiken für 
eine Hypertonie 3,7 (2,70–5,05), für eine ischämische Herzerkrankung 2,2 
(1,86–2,52), für einen zerebralen Insult 1,8 (1,45–2,27) und für die 
kardiovaskulär bedingte Mortalität 1,5 (1,05–2,14) und damit signifikant. 56 % 
der Internisten und 23 % der Gynäkologen kennen laut einer aktuellen Studie die 
Assoziation mit ischämischen Herzerkrankungen nicht, 48 bzw. 38 % nicht die 
Assoziation mit späteren Insulten und 79 bzw. 77 % nicht die Assoziation mit 
einer verminderten Lebenserwartung nach Präeklampsie. Das Vorliegen einer 
Hypertonie ist vielen Betroffenen nicht bekannt, 28–38 % erhalten eine 
ausreichende Therapie. Schlussfolgerung: Adäquate Nachsorge nach hypertensiven 
Schwangerschaftserkrankungen sowie die frühzeitige Erkennung und adäquate 
Therapie einer Hypertonie stellen die Eckpfeiler in der Prävention 
kardiovaskulärer Spätfolgen dar. Hausarzt, Internist und Frauenarzt sind für die 
Reduktion späterer Komplikationen von wesentlicher Bedeutung.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0032-1328172
PMCID: PMC3859153
PMID: 24771883

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest None.


21. Curr Gerontol Geriatr Res. 2014;2014:478126. doi: 10.1155/2014/478126. Epub
2014  Mar 19.

Senescent remodeling of the innate and adaptive immune system in the elderly men 
with prostate cancer.

Taverna G(1), Seveso M(1), Giusti G(1), Hurle R(1), Graziotti P(1), Stifter 
S(2), Chiriva-Internati M(3), Grizzi F(1).

Author information:
(1)Humanitas Clinical and Research Center, Via Manzoni 56, Rozzano, Milan 20089, 
Italy.
(2)Department of Pathology, School of Medicine, University of Rijeka, 51000 
Rijeka, Croatia.
(3)Division of Oncology and Hematology, Texas Tech University Health Sciences 
Center, Lubbock, TX 79409, USA.

Despite years of intensive investigation that has been made in understanding 
prostate cancer, it remains a major cause of death in men worldwide. Prostate 
cancer emerges from multiple alterations that induce changes in expression 
patterns of genes and proteins that function in networks controlling critical 
cellular events. Based on the exponential aging of the population and the 
increasing life expectancy in industrialized Western countries, prostate cancer 
in the elderly men is becoming a disease of increasing significance. Aging is a 
progressive degenerative process strictly integrated with inflammation. Several 
theories have been proposed that attempt to define the role of chronic 
inflammation in aging including redox stress, mitochondrial damage, 
immunosenescence, and epigenetic modifications. Here, we review the innate and 
adaptive immune systems and their senescent remodeling in elderly men with 
prostate cancer.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/478126
PMCID: PMC3977481
PMID: 24772169


22. Mol Clin Oncol. 2014 May;2(3):454-460. doi: 10.3892/mco.2014.249. Epub 2014
Jan  28.

Weekly administration of paclitaxel and carboplatin with concurrent thoracic 
radiation in previously untreated elderly patients with locally advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer: A case series of 20 patients.

Takeshita J(1), Masago K(1), Fujita S(1), Hata A(1), Kaji R(1), Kawamura T(2), 
Tamai K(2), Matsumoto T(2), Nagata K(2), Otsuka K(2), Nakagawa A(2), Otsuka 
K(2), Tomii K(2), Shintani T(3), Takayama K(3), Kokubo M(4), Katakami N(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Integrated Oncology, Institute of Biomedical Research and 
Innovation, Kobe City Medical Center General Hospital, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan ;
(2)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Kobe City Medical Center General 
Hospital, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan ;
(3)Division of Radiation Oncology, Institute of Biomedical Research and 
Innovation, Kobe City Medical Center General Hospital, Kobe, Hyogo, Japan ;
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, Kobe City Medical Center General Hospital, 
Kobe, Hyogo, Japan.

Elderly patients with stage III non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC) are 
frequently underrepresented in clinical trials that evaluate chemoradiotherapy, 
due to their poor functional status, coexisting illnesses and limited life 
expectancy. The Japan Clinical Oncology Group 0301 trial (JCOG0301) was the 
first study to demonstrate that thoracic radiation therapy (TRT) with daily 
low-dose carboplatin may improve the outcome of elderly patients with stage III 
NSCLC. However, the efficacy and safety profiles of chemoradiotherapy, including 
platinum doublets, have not been clearly determined in this patient population. 
We retrospectively assessed the efficacy and toxicity of weekly paclitaxel in 
combination with carboplatin and concurrent TRT in patients aged ≥75 years with 
previously untreated locally advanced NSCLC. Between February, 2004 and July, 
2013, we collected the data of 20 patients treated with weekly paclitaxel and 
carboplatin for 6 weeks and concurrent TRT. The objective response rate was 90%, 
the disease control rate was 95%, the median progression-free survival was 8.63 
months [95% confidence interval (CI): 5.7-16.7] and the median overall survival 
(OS) was 16.1 months (95% CI: 10.7-41.6). There were no grade 4 hematological or 
non-hematological toxicities and no reported treatment-related deaths. 
Therefore, platinum doublet therapy in combination with TRT did not provide a 
clinically significant survival benefit in our population of elderly patients 
with locally advanced NSCLC. However, the present study demonstrated the good 
feasibility and safety of this regimen. Further prospective clinical trials are 
required to evaluate the efficacy and safety of platinum doublet with TRT in 
elderly patients.

DOI: 10.3892/mco.2014.249
PMCID: PMC3999130
PMID: 24772317


23. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Apr;107(2):614-22. doi: 10.1603/ec11205.

Life parameters of Tetranychus urticae (Acari: Tetranychidae) on six common bean 
cultivars.

Najafabadi SS, Shoushtari RV, Zamani AA, Arbabi M, Farazmand H.

It is well recognized that the quality of host plants affects the development 
and survival of twospotted spider mite Tetranychus urticae Koch. The life table 
parameters of T. urticae, on six cultivars of common bean (Phaseolus vulgaris 
L.) (chiti Khomein, chiti Ks21189, red Akhtar, red Ks31169, white Pak, and white 
G11867) were studied at constant laboratory conditions (27 +/- 2 degrees C, 70 
+/- 5% RH and 16:8 L:D). Total development times of immature males and females 
were significantly influenced by bean cultivar. T. urticae laid significantly 
more eggs per day on red Akhtar (16.16) than on the other cultivars. The mean 
generation time ranged from 23.37 to 34.82 d, and a significant varietal effect 
was seen. Percentage of egg hatchability oftwospotted spider mite ranged from 
88.25 to 94.20%. The highest intrinsic rate of increase, was recorded on red 
Akhtar (0.269 +/- 0.031) and the lowest value was obtained on white Pak (0.129 
+/- 0.048). In addition, net reproductive rate and finite rate of increase of 
the twospotted spider mite had the highest value on red Akhtar: 62.38 +/- 1.05 
and 1.30 +/- 1.02, respectively. The lowest values of these parameters were 
recorded on white Pak as 26.11 +/- 1.40 and 1.13 +/- 1.10, respectively. 
Doubling time varied significantly on different cultivars and the lowest and 
highest values were obtained on red Akhtar and white Pak, respectively. Our 
findings revealed that white beans (Pak and G11867) were less suitable 
cultivars, suggesting that they are more resistant to the twospotted spider mite 
than the other cultivars.

DOI: 10.1603/ec11205
PMID: 24772541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Apr;107(2):638-45. doi: 10.1603/ec13227.

Lethal and sublethal effects of azadirachtin and cypermethrin on Habrobracon 
hebetor (Hymenoptera: Braconidae).

Abedi Z, Saber M, Gharekhani G, Mehrvar A, Kamita SG.

Habrobracon hebetor Say is an ectoparasitoid of larval stage of various 
lepidopteran pests. Lethal and sublethal effects of azadirachtin and 
cypermethrin were evaluated on adult and preimaginal stages of H. hebetor under 
laboratory conditions. Contact exposure bioassays with adults indicated that the 
lethal concentration (LC50) of two commercial azadirachtin-containing 
formulations, NeemGuard and BioNeem, were 43.5 and 10.2 microg a.i./ml, 
respectively. The LC50 of cypermethrin was 5.4 microg a.i./ml. When larval stage 
of H. hebetor was exposed to these insecticides with a field recommended 
concentration of NeemGuard, BioNeem, or cypermethrin by a dip protocol, the 
emergence rate was reduced by 39.0, 36.6, and 97.6%, respectively. To assay the 
sublethal effects of these insecticides, adult wasps were exposed to an LC30 
concentration of the insecticides, and then demographic parameters of the 
surviving wasps were determined. Fecundity, fertility, and parameters including 
the intrinsic rate of increase (r(m)) were affected negatively. The r(m) values 
following exposure to NeemGuard, BioNeem, cypermethrin, or mock treatment were 
0.143, 0.149, 0.160, and 0.179, respectively, female offspring per female per 
day, respectively. The current study showed that cypermethrin had more acute 
toxicity on larval and adult stages of H. hebetor compared with azadirachin. The 
commercial formulations of azadirachtin and cypermethrin negatively affected 
most of the life table parameters of the parasitoid. Semifield and field studies 
are needed for obtaining more applicable results on combining H. hebetor and the 
tested insecticides for an integrated pest management-based strategy for crop 
protection.

DOI: 10.1603/ec13227
PMID: 24772544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Apr;107(2):806-14. doi: 10.1603/ec13456.

Chlorantraniliprole resistance in the diamondback moth (Lepidoptera: 
Plutellidae).

Gong W, Yan HH, Gao L, Guo YY, Xue CB.

The wide application of chlorantraniliprole, which selectively targets insect 
ryanodine receptors (RyR), for control of the diamondback moth, Plutella 
xylostella (L.), has led to increasingly prominent development of resistance to 
this insecticide. Although much work has been carried out on the structure and 
function of RyR, the molecular mechanisms of resistance to chlorantraniliprole 
in diamondback moth still needs further investigation. P. xylostella strains 
with medium and high resistance to chlorantraniliprole were obtained by 
laboratory selection and field collection. The biological activity of 
chlorantraniliprole against the third-instar larvae of susceptible and resistant 
strains was tested, and resistance development and biological fitness were 
investigated. The realized heritability (h2) of resistance showed the 
diamondback moth has a high risk of resistance to chlorantraniliprole. RyR 
transcript levels were lower in resistant strains than in susceptible strains, 
indicating that decreased expression of PxRyR may be associated with 
chlorantraniliprole resistance in P. xylostella. A 4,400 bp fragment of the RyR 
cDNA, which encodes most of the functional domains of RyR, was cloned and 
characterized from four strains (S, F18, BY, and ZC). A 14 amino acid 
(Q4546-S4559) deletion was found in three resistant strains (F18, BY, and ZC). A 
point mutation resulting in a glycine to glutamate substitution, as reported in 
a previously published article, was also found in the carboxyl-terminal region 
of two resistant strains (BY and ZC). These results indicated that decreased 
transcriptional level of RyR mRNA and combined with the site mutation might be 
related to chlorantraniliprole resistance in P. xylostella.

DOI: 10.1603/ec13456
PMID: 24772564 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Vopr Onkol. 2014;60(1):71-9.

[Experimental technology of chemoperfusion treatment for abdominal 
carcinomatosis in ovarian cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Beliaeva OA, Bespalov VG, Senchik KIu, Kireeva GS, Stukov AN, Aristova VA, 
Ivantsov AO, Vyshinskaia EA, Maĭdin MA, Semënov AL, Aleksandrov VA, Beliaev AM.

An experimental technology of normothermic intraperitoneal chemoperfusion and 
hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemoperfusion with cisplatin and dioxadet has been 
elaborated to treat abdominal carcinomatosis in ovarian cancer. Antitumor 
effects of the treatment were evaluated for the duration of animal life. 
Normothermic intraperitoneal chemoperfusion and hyperthermic intraperitoneal 
chemoperfusion with cisplatin and dioxadet in comparison with the standard 
intraperitoneal administration significantly increased the median life 
expectancy by 75-92%. Hyperthermic intraperitoneal chemoperfusion with dioxadet 
demonstrated potentiation of antitumor effect of hyperthermia and dioxadet. 
Experimental technology is recommended for testing new drugs and methods of 
chemoperfusion for malignant tumors affecting the peritoneum.

PMID: 24772620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. Eur J Gynaecol Oncol. 2014;35(2):180-4.

Malignant mixed Müllerian tumor with small cell neuroendocrine differentiation: 
a case report and review of the literature.

Toptas T, Tasova-Yildirim G, Karaveli S, Simsek T.

INTRODUCTION: Small cell neuroendocrine differentiation (NE) in malignant mixed 
Müllerian tumors (MMMTs) is a rare and unusual occurrence with very few 
previously reported cases. There is no consensus regarding its diagnosis, 
classification, and optimal treatment options.
CASE: The authors report a patient with endometrial MMMT and NE differentiation 
who initially received comprehensive surgery followed by adjuvant chemotherapy 
containing cisplatin and etoposide. She further underwent metastasectomy and 
received carboplatin and paclitaxel for the relapse. She is still alive 12 
months after the diagnosis. The authors performed a review of literature in 
order to characterize the clinical phenotype. These patients have a very 
aggressive disease. Median life expectancy seems to be less than a year.
CONCLUSIONS: It is reasonable to perform comprehensive staging surgery followed 
by adjuvant chemotherapy irrespective to stage of the disease.

PMID: 24772925 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. Neurol Res. 2014 Oct;36(10):915-20. doi: 10.1179/1743132814Y.0000000372. Epub
 2014 Apr 28.

The cost-effectiveness of CT-guided sacroiliac joint injections: a measure of 
QALY gained.

Bydon M, Macki M, De la Garza-Ramos R, Youssef M, Gokaslan ZL, Meleka S, Bydon 
A.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study is to estimate the total cost and the 
quality of life years (QALY) gained for computer tomography (CT)-guided 
sacroiliac joint (SIJ) injections. The cost per QALY gained for the procedure is 
the primary end-point of this study.
METHODS: In our 1-year prospective institutional study, we gathered 30 patients 
undergoing CT-guided SIJ injections for degenerative changes at the SIJ space. 
Patient-reported outcomes included both the US population-based EQ-5D (EuroQol) 
index score and the EQ-visual analog scale (VAS). The EQ-5D is based on 
mobility, self-care, usual activities, pain/discomfort, and anxiety depression. 
Utility expenditures were based on hospital charges at our institution.
RESULTS: All 30 patients had one pre-injection physician visit followed by 43 
initial injections (13 bilateral). Each patient underwent one CT scan, and three 
patients required additional plain films. In the 1 year following the 
injections, 26 physician visits were documented. Five patients required repeat 
CT-guided injections. Total 1-year cost for all 30 patients was $34 874·00. Mean 
decrease in EQ-VAS was 0·60 (P  =  0·187). The mean 1-year gain of 0·58 EQ-5D 
QALY reached statistical significance (P < 0·001). The cost per QALY gained by 
CT-guided sacroiliac injections was $2004·29.
DISCUSSION: In one of the first cost analyses of CT-guided sacroiliac 
injections, we found that the procedure improves pain and activities of daily 
living. The cost per QALY gained by CT-guided sacroiliac injections falls well 
below the threshold cost of 1 QALY, suggesting that the procedure is strongly 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1179/1743132814Y.0000000372
PMID: 24773478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Rev Esp Cardiol (Engl Ed). 2013 Nov;66(11):837-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.rec.2013.05.024. Epub 2013 Aug 30.

Strengthening primordial and primary prevention of cardiovascular disease to 
increase life expectancy.

Rodríguez-Artalejo F(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Medicina Preventiva y Salud Pública, Facultad de Medicina, 
Universidad Autónoma de Madrid/IdiPaz y CIBER de Epidemiología y Salud Pública, 
CIBERESP, Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: fernando.artalejo@uam.es.

Comment on
    Rev Esp Cardiol (Engl Ed). 2013 Nov;66(11):848-53.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rec.2013.05.024
PMID: 24773988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Rev Esp Cardiol (Engl Ed). 2013 Nov;66(11):848-53. doi: 
10.1016/j.rec.2013.05.013. Epub 2013 Sep 4.

Contributions of cardiovascular mortality to Spanish life expectancy from 1980 
to 2009.

García González JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Trabajo Social, Universidad Internacional de La Rioja, 
Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: gargonjm@gmail.com.

Comment in
    Rev Esp Cardiol (Engl Ed). 2013 Nov;66(11):837-8.

INTRODUCTION AND OBJECTIVES: This article describes the contribution of the 
decrease in cardiovascular mortality to the increase in life expectancy at birth 
in Spain from 1980 to 2009. We explain the demographic factors underlying the 
decrease in mortality from cardiovascular diseases at older ages and the effect 
of this decrease on lifespan.
METHODS: The contribution of these decreases to Spanish life expectancy at birth 
was calculated using decomposition methods for life expectancy. We calculated 
standardized mortality rates by sex and 3 causes of death (cerebrovascular 
disease, ischemic heart disease, and other heart disease) for 3 age groups: 65 
to 79 years, 80 to 89 years, and ≥ 90 years.
RESULTS: From 1980 to 2009, life expectancy at birth in Spain increased by more 
than 6 years for both sexes. The contribution of the decrease in cardiovascular 
mortality to the total increase in life expectancy at birth was 63% among women 
and 53% among men. Among the ≥ 65-year-old age group, this contribution was 93% 
among women and 87% among men.
CONCLUSIONS: The decrease in cardiovascular mortality, mainly at older ages, has 
been the main contributor to increased Spanish life expectancy at birth during 
the last 3 decades.

Copyright © 2013 Sociedad Española de Cardiología. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rec.2013.05.013
PMID: 24773991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Stem Cell Res Ther. 2014 Apr 28;5(2):60. doi: 10.1186/scrt449.

The effect of Rho kinase inhibition on long-term keratinocyte proliferation is 
rapid and conditional.

Chapman S, McDermott DH, Shen K, Jang MK, McBride AA.

INTRODUCTION: We previously demonstrated that the lifespan of primary human 
keratinocytes could be extended indefinitely by culture in the presence of the 
Rho kinase (ROCK) inhibitor Y-27632. This technique has proven to be very useful 
in diverse areas of basic and clinical research.
METHODS: In this follow-up study we determine whether the continual presence of 
Y-27632 is required for sustained proliferation. We also test whether different 
ROCK inhibitors can be used for this technique and whether it can also promote 
indefinite proliferation of animal keratinocytes. We measure keratinocyte gene 
expression, proliferation, behaviour and lifespan in the presence and absence of 
Y-27632.
RESULTS: We demonstrate that the extension of lifespan observed by culture of 
keratinocytes in the presence of fibroblast feeders and a ROCK inhibitor is 
reversible and that cells senesce gradually when the inhibitor is removed from 
the medium. Conversely, keratinocytes that are close to the end of their 
replicative life span can be revived by ROCK inhibition. We demonstrate that 
different inhibitors of ROCK can also efficiently extend the lifespan of human 
keratinocytes and that ROCK inhibition extends the lifespan of animal 
keratinocytes derived from mouse and bovine epithelia. Gene expression analysis 
of human epidermal keratinocytes cells grown in the presence of Y-27632 
demonstrates that ROCK inhibition primarily inhibits keratinocyte 
differentiation. Live-imaging of keratinocytes cultured with ROCK inhibitors 
show that the effect of ROCK inhibition on cellular proliferation is immediate 
and ROCK inhibited cells proliferate rapidly without differentiation or 
stratification.
CONCLUSIONS: ROCK inhibition rapidly and conditionally induces indefinite 
proliferation of keratinocytes. This method has far-reaching applications for 
basic research, as well as for regenerative and personalized medicine.

DOI: 10.1186/scrt449
PMCID: PMC4055106
PMID: 24774536 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. Rev Clin Esp (Barc). 2014 Oct;214(7):403-9. doi: 10.1016/j.rce.2014.03.005.
Epub  2014 Apr 26.

Patients with cancer in the intensive monitoring unit. New perspectives.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Prieto Del Portillo I(1), Polo Zarzuela M(2), Pujol Varela I(3).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Medicina Intensiva, Hospital 12 de Octubre, Madrid, España. 
Electronic address: iprieto.hrc@salud.madrid.org.
(2)Servicio de Hematología, Hospital Clínico San Carlos, Madrid, España.
(3)Servicio de Medicina Intensiva, Hospital MD Anderson, Madrid, España.

In recent years, there has been a significant improvement in the survival of 
patients with cancer in intensive care units (ICUs). Advances in medical and 
surgical treatments and better selection of patients has helped improve the life 
expectancy of this type of patient. An appropriate and early resuscitation in 
the ICU, without initial limitations on the life support techniques, has been 
shown to also decrease the mortality of patients with cancer. At present, we 
should not deny admission to the ICU based only on the underlying neoplastic 
disease. However, the mortality rate for patients with cancer in the ICU, 
especially those with hematologic disease, remains high. In some cases, an ICU 
admission test (ICU test) is required for at least 3 days to identify patients 
who can benefit from intensive treatment. We would like to propose a decision 
algorithm for ICU admission that will help in making decisions in an often 
complex situation.

Copyright © 2013 Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rce.2014.03.005
PMID: 24776089


33. Nat Rev Neurol. 2014 Jun;10(6):315-25. doi: 10.1038/nrneurol.2014.72. Epub
2014  Apr 29.

Ischaemic stroke in young adults: risk factors and long-term consequences.

Maaijwee NA(1), Rutten-Jacobs LC(1), Schaapsmeerders P(1), van Dijk EJ(1), de 
Leeuw FE(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Donders 
Institute for Brain, Cognition and Behaviour, Centre for Neuroscience, PO Box 
9101, 6500 HB, Nijmegen, Netherlands.

Erratum in
    Nat Rev Neurol. 2014 Nov;10(11):612.

Contrary to trends in most other diseases, the average age of ischaemic stroke 
onset is decreasing, owing to a rise in the incidence of stroke among 'young' 
individuals (under 50 years of age). This Review provides a critical overview of 
the risk factors and aetiology of young ischaemic stroke and addresses its 
long-term prognosis, including cardiovascular risk, functional outcome and 
psychosocial consequences. We highlight the diminishing role of 'rare' risk 
factors in the pathophysiology of young stroke in light of the rising prevalence 
of 'traditional' vascular risk factors in younger age groups. Long-term 
prognosis is of particular interest to young patients, because of their long 
life expectancy and major responsibilities during a demanding phase of life. The 
prognosis of young stroke is not as favourable as previously thought, with 
respect either to mortality or cardiovascular disease or to psychosocial 
consequences. Therefore, secondary stroke prevention is probably a life-long 
endeavour in most young stroke survivors. Due to under-representation of young 
patients in past trials, new randomized trials focusing on this age group are 
needed to confirm the benefits of long-term secondary preventive medication. The 
high prevalence of poor functional outcome and psychosocial problems warrants 
further study to optimize treatment and rehabilitation for these young patients.

DOI: 10.1038/nrneurol.2014.72
PMID: 24776923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Graefes Arch Clin Exp Ophthalmol. 2014 Dec;252(12):1911-20. doi: 
10.1007/s00417-014-2641-3. Epub 2014 Apr 29.

The cost-utility of aflibercept for the treatment of age-related macular 
degeneration compared to bevacizumab and ranibizumab and the influence of model 
parameters.

Elshout M(1), van der Reis MI, Webers CA, Schouten JS.

Author information:
(1)University Eye Clinic Maastricht, Maastricht University Medical Center, PO 
Box 5800, 6202 AZ, Maastricht, The Netherlands, m.elshout@mumc.nl.

BACKGROUND: Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a blinding disease placing 
considerable burden on society due to blindness-associated costs. Intravitreal 
anti-vascular endothelial growth factors (anti-VEGFs) are effective in reducing 
the incidence of blindness, but at potentially high costs, depending on the cost 
of the drug used. Aflibercept has been introduced as an anti-VEGF equally 
effective to ranibizumab, but less costly. For this new drug, new 
cost-effectiveness analyses are needed, and AMD models used today give biased 
results. We investigated the cost-effectiveness of aflibercept compared to 
bevacizumab, ranibizumab, and no treatment and studied the influence of commonly 
used model parameters.
METHODS: A patient-level, visual acuity-based, 2-eye model was developed. Data 
on effectiveness were derived from randomized controlled trials evaluating the 
outcomes of aflibercept, bevacizumab, and ranibizumab. Utility and resource 
utilization were assessed in interviews with AMD patients. Costs were based on 
standard health care cost prices. Time horizons were two and five years. A 
societal perspective was employed.
RESULTS: Over five years, costs associated with aflibercept treatment were 
<euro>36,030, with 2.15 QALYs. Costs associated with the bevacizumab regimens, 
ABC study as-needed (PRN); CATT study PRN; and CATT study 1×/month, were 
<euro>19,367; <euro>26,746; and <euro>30,520, with 2.16; 2.17; and 2.15 QALYs, 
respectively. Costs associated with ranibizumab PRN and 1×/month were 
<euro>45,491 and <euro>74,837 with 2.16 and 2.15 QALYs, respectively. 'No 
treatment' was associated with <euro>9530 and 1.96 QALYs. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios versus 'no treatment' were: aflibercept-<euro>140,274; 
bevacizumab-<euro>51,062 (ABC PRN), <euro>83,256 (CATT PRN) and <euro>110,361 
(1×/month); ranibizumab-<euro>181,667 (PRN) and <euro>349,773 (1×/month). 
Results were highly dependent on whether only one or both eyes were included, 
length of time horizon, and whether the costs of blindness and low-vision were 
included in the analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: Aflibercept is a cost-effective treatment for AMD over ranibizumab. 
However, aflibercept is not a cost-effective treatment when compared to 
bevacizumab. Application of inappropriate model assumptions leads to a biased 
cost-saving estimate of the cost-effectiveness of aflibercept. Therefore, 
cost-effectiveness analyses should be conducted with appropriate models.

DOI: 10.1007/s00417-014-2641-3
PMID: 24777708 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. J Ind Microbiol Biotechnol. 2014 Jul;41(7):1145-58. doi: 
10.1007/s10295-014-1443-2. Epub 2014 Apr 29.

Expression, characterization, and improvement of a newly cloned halohydrin 
dehalogenase from Agrobacterium tumefaciens and its application in production of 
epichlorohydrin.

Liu ZQ(1), Gao AC, Wang YJ, Zheng YG, Shen YC.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Bioengineering, Zhejiang University of Technology, Hangzhou, 
310014, Zhejiang, People's Republic of China.

A gene encoding halohydrin dehalogenase (HHDH) from Agrobacterium tumefaciens 
CCTCC M 87071 was cloned and expressed in Escherichia coli. To increase activity 
and stability of HHDH, 14 amino acid residues around the active site and 
substrate-binding pocket based on the structural analysis and molecular docking 
were selected as targets for site-directed mutagenesis. The studies showed that 
the mutant HHDH (Mut-HHDH) enzyme had a more accessible substrate-binding pocket 
than the wild-type HHDH (Wt-HHDH). Molecular docking revealed that the distance 
between the substrate and active site was closer in mutant which improved the 
catalytic activity. The expressed Wt-HHDH and Mut-HHDH were purified and 
characterized using 1,3-dichloro-2-propanol (1,3-DCP) as substrates. The 
specific activity of the mutant was enhanced 26-fold and the value of k cat was 
18.4-fold as compared to the Wt-HHDH, respectively. The Mut-HHDH showed 
threefold extension of half-life at 45 °C than that of Wt-HHDH. Therefore it is 
possible to add 1,3-DCP concentration up to 100 mM and epichlorohydrin (ECH) was 
produced at a relatively high conversion and yield (59.6 %) using Mut-HHDH as 
catalyst. This Mut-HHDH could be a potential candidate for the upscale 
production of ECH.

DOI: 10.1007/s10295-014-1443-2
PMID: 24777710 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2015 Mar;473(3):812-9. doi: 10.1007/s11999-014-3655-1.

What are the functional outcomes of endoprosthestic reconstructions after tumor 
resection?

Bernthal NM(1), Greenberg M, Heberer K, Eckardt JJ, Fowler EG.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, 
1250 16th Street, Suite 3142, Santa Monica, Los Angeles, CA, 90404, USA, 
nbernthal@mednet.ucla.edu.

BACKGROUND: The majority of published functional outcome data for tumor 
megaprostheses comes in the form of subjective functional outcome scores. Sparse 
objective data exist demonstrating functional results, activity levels, and 
efficiency of gait after endoprosthetic reconstruction in patients treated for 
orthopaedic tumors. Patients embarking on massive surgical operations, often in 
the setting of debilitating medical therapies, face mortality and a myriad of 
unknowns. Objective functional outcomes provide patients with reasonable 
expectations and a means to envision life after treatment. Objective outcomes 
also provide a means for surgeons to compare techniques, rehabilitation 
protocols, and implants.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: We asked the following questions: (1) What is the efficiency 
of gait (ie, oxygen consumption) at final recovery from endoprosthetic 
reconstruction for oncologic resections? (2) What is the knee strength after 
lower extremity endoprosthetic reconstruction as compared with the contralateral 
limb? (3) How active are patients with tumor megaprostheses at home and in the 
community?
METHODS: Sixty-nine patients with endoprosthetic reconstructions for primary 
lower extremity bone sarcoma met inclusion criteria and were invited by mailing 
to undergo oxygen cost study and strength testing. Twenty-four patients (seven 
proximal femoral replacements, nine distal femoral replacements, and eight 
proximal tibia replacements) underwent evaluation in the gait laboratory at a 
mean of 13.2 years after their reconstruction. All patients were then asked to 
wear step activity monitors at home and in the community for 7 consecutive days.
RESULTS: Median O2 consumption (in mL/kg/m) among the endoprothesis groups was 
not different from the control patients with the numbers available (proximal 
femoral replacement 0.17, distal femoral replacement 0.16, proximal tibia 
replacement 0.18, control 0.15, p = 0.21). With the numbers available, there was 
no difference in walking speed as compared with the control group (proximal 
femoral replacement 1.20 m/s, distal femoral replacement 1.27 m/s, proximal 
tibia replacement 1.12 m/s, control 1.27 m/s, p = 0.08). Patients with proximal 
tibia replacements had reduced knee extension and flexion strength compared with 
patients in other reconstruction groups (84% reduction in extension versus those 
with proximal femoral replacements, 35%, and distal femoral replacement, 53%, p 
= 0.001, and 43% reduction in flexion versus proximal femoral replacement, 11%, 
distal femoral replacement, 2%, p = 0.006). With the numbers available, mean 
strides per day were not different among the reconstruction groups (proximal 
femoral replacement = 4709 strides/day [3094-6696], distal femoral replacement = 
2854 [2461-6015], and proximal tibia replacement = 4411 [3093-6215], p = 0.53).
CONCLUSIONS: Although knee strength was reduced in patients with proximal tibia 
replacements compared with femoral reconstructions, all groups had an efficient 
gait and were active at home and in the community at a mean of 13.2 years after 
surgery. Despite the magnitude of these surgeries, these patients are similarly 
active as patients after standard total hip arthroplasty. These findings provide 
objective data from which patients undergoing tumor megaprosthesis 
reconstructions of the lower extremity can reasonably base expectations of 
efficient gait and active lifestyles outside of the hospital setting. These data 
may provide hope and long-term goals for patients facing the uncertainty of 
chemotherapy and surgical treatment.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level III, therapeutic study. See Instructions for Authors 
for a complete description of levels of evidence.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-014-3655-1
PMCID: PMC4317426
PMID: 24777730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Histol Histopathol. 2014 Oct;29(10):1249-62. doi: 10.14670/HH-29.1249. Epub
2014  Apr 28.

Regeneration of the periodontium for preservation of the damaged tooth.

Maeda H(1), Tomokiyo A(2), Wada N(3), Koori K(2), Kawachi G(4), Akamine A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Endodontology, Kyushu University Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan. 
hide@dent.kyushu-u.ac.jp.
(2)Department of Endodontology and Operative Dentistry, Faculty of Dental 
Science, Kyushu University, Fukuoka, Japan.
(3)Department of Endodontology, Kyushu University Hospital, Fukuoka, Japan.
(4)Department of Materials, Faculty of Dental Science, Kyushu University, 
Fukuoka, Japan.
(5)Department of Endodontology, Kyushu University Hospital, and Department of 
Endodontology and Operative Dentistry, Faculty of Dental Science, Kyushu 
University, Fukuoka, Japan.

The population of the world grows every year, and life expectancy tends to 
increase. Thus, long-term preservation of teeth in aged individuals is an urgent 
issue. The main causes of tooth loss are well known to be periodontitis, caries, 
fractures, and orthodontic conditions. Although implant placement is a widely 
accepted treatment for tooth loss, most patients desire to preserve their own 
teeth. Many clinicians and researchers are therefore challenged to treat and 
preserve teeth that are irreversibly affected by deep caries, periodontitis, 
fractures, and trauma. Tissue engineering techniques are beneficial in 
addressing this issue; stem cells, signal molecules, and scaffolds are the main 
elements of such techniques. In this review, we describe these three elements 
with respect to their validation for regeneration of the periodontium and focus 
particularly on the potency of diverse scaffolds. In addition, we provide a 
short overview of the ongoing studies of 4-methacryloxyethyl trimellitate 
anhydride/methyl methacrylate-tri-n-butyl-borane resin including calcium 
chloride or hydroxyapatite for periodontium regeneration.

DOI: 10.14670/HH-29.1249
PMID: 24777740 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Hist Philos Life Sci. 2013;35(3):319-39.

"The living picture": on the circulation of microscope-slide knowledge in 1903.

Gaycken O.

Microscope slides allowed preparations to circulate among scientific and 
educational contexts. An extension of the circulation of microscope slides was 
how they became part of lantern exhibition culture. This article considers an 
early example of the adoption of microscope lantern show conventions by another 
medium, the cinema. E Martin Duncan, who was employed by Charles Urban to 
produce a series of popular-science films beginning in 1903, brought his 
experience with microphotography to bear on the challenge of adapting cinema to 
the purpose of public instruction. Duncan's first series of films, entitled "The 
Unseen World," demonstrated both profound links to the display tradition of the 
lantern lecture as well as the transformation of that tradition by the cinema's 
representational possibilities.

PMID: 24779105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. J Heart Valve Dis. 2014 Jan;23(1):9-16.

Comparison of different surgical techniques in 112 consecutive patients with 
aortic root operations: when should the valve be spared?

Blehm A, Schurr P, Sorokin VA, Zianikal I, Kamiya H, Albert A, Lichtenberg A.

BACKGROUND AND AIM OF THE STUDY: The benefit of valve-sparing aortic root 
replacement compared to conventional aortic root replacement surgery remains 
unclear.
METHODS: Between February 2009 and November 2010, a total of 112 patients 
underwent aortic root surgery at the Department of Cardiovascular and Thoracic 
Surgery, Heinrich-Heine-University, Dusseldorf, Germany. The valve-sparing 
technique was used when leaflets were grossly normal. In cases where the valve 
could not be saved, a prosthetic or biological substitute was used for the 
aortic root, according to existing guidelines. The patients were allocated to 
three groups: (i) valve-sparing aortic root replacement group using the David 
technique (VSR-David; n = 47); (ii) valve-replacing aortic root surgery with a 
prosthetic conduit using the Bentall-Kuchucus technique (VRR-Prosthetic; n = 
31); and (iii) valve-replacing aortic root surgery with a biological stentless 
valve with the full root technique (VRR-Bio; n = 34).
RESULTS: Intraoperative data revealed that, in the VSR-David group, the 
cardiopulmonary bypass and cross-clamp times were significantly longer (207 +/- 
68 min and 140 +/- 38 min respectively; both p = 0.001). The VRR-Prosthetic 
patients were at highest risk (mean EuroSCORE 15.9%) compared to the VSR-David 
and VRR-Bio groups (10.8% and 10.4%, respectively). Postoperative analysis 
showed that patients in the VRR-Bio group had the lowest number of perioperative 
heart failures (p = 0.004). The perioperative 30-day mortality was significantly 
higher in the VRR-Prosthetic group (22.6%; p = 0.004). Transaortic flow 
velocities were significantly lower in the VSR-David group, followed by the 
VRR-Bio group and VRR-Prosthetic group (1.66 +/- 0.54, 1.98 +/- 0.45, and 2.29 
+/- 0.39 m/s, respectively; p = 0.012). The univariate and multivariate analyses 
of perioperative risk factors showed that only open distal anastomosis was 
strongly associated with negative results, but not the valve-sparing technique.
CONCLUSION: Aortic valve-sparing root replacement must be considered as an 
excellent alternative for young patients requiring aortic root replacement when 
a biological valve is clinically indicated. For patients aged >65 years, or with 
a decreased life expectancy, the full root technique with a stentless valve 
should be used, given its technical simplicity and excellent postoperative 
results.

PMID: 24779323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


40. Trop Med Int Health. 2014 Aug;19(8):894-905. doi: 10.1111/tmi.12329. Epub
2014  Apr 30.

Burden of disease from inadequate water, sanitation and hygiene in low- and 
middle-income settings: a retrospective analysis of data from 145 countries.

Prüss-Ustün A(1), Bartram J, Clasen T, Colford JM Jr, Cumming O, Curtis V, 
Bonjour S, Dangour AD, De France J, Fewtrell L, Freeman MC, Gordon B, Hunter PR, 
Johnston RB, Mathers C, Mäusezahl D, Medlicott K, Neira M, Stocks M, Wolf J, 
Cairncross S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health and Environment, World Health Organization, 
Geneva, Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate the burden of diarrhoeal diseases from exposure to 
inadequate water, sanitation and hand hygiene in low- and middle-income settings 
and provide an overview of the impact on other diseases.
METHODS: For estimating the impact of water, sanitation and hygiene on 
diarrhoea, we selected exposure levels with both sufficient global exposure data 
and a matching exposure-risk relationship. Global exposure data were estimated 
for the year 2012, and risk estimates were taken from the most recent systematic 
analyses. We estimated attributable deaths and disability-adjusted life years 
(DALYs) by country, age and sex for inadequate water, sanitation and hand 
hygiene separately, and as a cluster of risk factors. Uncertainty estimates were 
computed on the basis of uncertainty surrounding exposure estimates and relative 
risks.
RESULTS: In 2012, 502,000 diarrhoea deaths were estimated to be caused by 
inadequate drinking water and 280,000 deaths by inadequate sanitation. The most 
likely estimate of disease burden from inadequate hand hygiene amounts to 
297,000 deaths. In total, 842,000 diarrhoea deaths are estimated to be caused by 
this cluster of risk factors, which amounts to 1.5% of the total disease burden 
and 58% of diarrhoeal diseases. In children under 5 years old, 361,000 deaths 
could be prevented, representing 5.5% of deaths in that age group.
CONCLUSIONS: This estimate confirms the importance of improving water and 
sanitation in low- and middle-income settings for the prevention of diarrhoeal 
disease burden. It also underscores the need for better data on exposure and 
risk reductions that can be achieved with provision of reliable piped water, 
community sewage with treatment and hand hygiene.

© 2014 The Authors. Tropical Medicine and International Health published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tmi.12329
PMCID: PMC4255749
PMID: 24779548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


41. Ann R Coll Surg Engl. 2014 May;96(4):297-301. doi: 
10.1308/003588414X13814021680157.

Low energy fractures of the acetabulum.

