Savage A, Sellahewa C, Stonelake P, Cruickshank N, Gill K, Harper E, Joy H, 
Laloe V, Mirza M, Mobarak D, Sintler M, Thumbe V, Vairavan M, Wheatley K, 
Benhamida A, Siddiqui K, Solkar M, Pullan R, Adedeji O, Bach S, Gourevitch D, 
Ismail T, Keh C, Midwinter M, Morton D, Radley S, Suggett N, Beardsmore D, 
Cheruvu C, Crisp W, Curran F, Dawson R, Deakin M, Durkin D, Farmer M, Kirby R, 
Lengyel J, Church R, Busby K, Francombe J, Murphy P, Osborne M, Azmi A, Blower 
A, Haque M, Harland R, Loganathan S, Mackenzie N, Paraoan M, Bowles M, Brockmann 
P, Coates F, Eardley P, Gavasingha M, Hornby S, Hyam B, Meachin C, Napier M, 
Page A, Price S, Read S, Hanna L, Torrance A, Youssef H, Bowley D, Calderbank P, 
Hawkins W, Horrobin C, Munasinghe A, Nachrauthu S, Nandra R, Barker J, Barrow E, 
Downes C, Epstein J, Keen A, Shetty V, Speake D, Taylor M, Adamson V, Hough C, 
Khan A, Mansfield C, Oshin O, Bedo J, Einosas R, Hamouda A, Jones S, Tomlinson 
L, Wadoodi A, Akinola T, Casey R, Cumming T, Dent H, Evans R, Ali H, Ashraf S, 
AuYong T, Battersby N, Bonney G, Cheng H, Coop H, Cooper H, Dhanda S, Dhillon S, 
Elgaddal S, Fi Cel-S, Green M, Long J, Markam G, Mascarentros M, McArthur D, 
Mohammed J, Pickering S, Pinkney T, Quigley A, Raichura S, Rahman E, Raza N, 
Richardson C, Roy S, Roberts H, Sahdev S, Sein T, Sharples A, Soulsby R, Treece 
M, Whitehouse M, Wong A, Youssef H, Bashir G, Beaton C, Lee G, Rahbour G, 
Ramgoolam D, Rasheed S, Sakuma S, Sherman S, Thorn C, Wright S, Barnes E, Humes 
D, Lynch J, Lythgoe M, Simpson J, Walter C, Ward K, Aggrawal S, Boereboom C, 
Collins E, Elsey E, Hall A, Hamandishe S, Kimber L, Peacock O, Pyke S, Reeves D, 
Smith J, Stobbs E, Watson N, Harvey S, James R, Mansfield S, Nijs Y, Wiggins M, 
Bate J, Bhangu A, Jennson T, Marriott P, McNamara K, Royle J, Singh P, Tan M, 
Walton J, Wheeler J, Wright L, Yassin N, Baldwin T, Ballentine M, Bhangu A, Bell 
C, Beveridge A, Carter J, Chrickshank J, Colley J, Cox D, Cruickshank N, Cutmore 
N, Dasgin J, Davis K, Dixon M, Doyle J, Dudley A, Fisher G, Fletcher H, 
Fuerstenberg F, Gammon B, Garbutt C, Goonetilleke K, Harji D, Harper H, Harvey 
J, Henderson L, Jenkins I, John A, Kaur P, Marriott P, Poxon S, Parkes C, Pugh 
D, Rhodes L, Richardson K, Roper M, Rusius V, Sharip B, Smith J, Todd S, Turner 
B, Vijayan D, Wakewal M, Walker R, Wheatley K, Williams L, Cocks S, Curran E, 
Ridgway S, George B, Hall A, Mercer P, Thatcher H, Watson J, Bartlett D, Baijal 
S, Bradbury J, Coakes M, Crutch L, Edgar H, Futaba K, Guruswamy P, Leyland A, 
Mabena N, Mak T, Manan K, Manimaran N, Markarian N, Melhado R, Millington J, 
Mirza N, Mittapalli D, Munasinghe A, Naqvi M, Pandey S, Pinkney T, Ramcharan S, 
Ravikumar R, Ryder L, Sahota G, Singh M, Wearn C, White M, Wong K, Bahia S, 
Beardsmore D, Bloom C, Briscoe N, Casey P, Dawson S, Deakin M, Denning M, Dennis 
M, Durber A, El-Shaeib M, Evans J, Fellows L, Hoswell S, Jackson J, Jones T, 
Lakhan M, Lord S, Hawkins W, Monnery D, Patel P, Rafati F, Reabin M, Rylands E, 
Sharifi O, Stevenson L, Tomlins F, Church R, Kitchen A, Puligari A, Sidebotham 
J, Swan E, Tilley A, Wagstaff L, Barnes J, Clare L, Dasari K, Fallis S, 
Francombe J, Foster E, Futaba K, Leung E, McFarlane M, Rastall S, Silvey N, 
Waight G, Whisker L, Antony M, Ahmed A, Baxendale S, Chandler Y, Corfield M, 
Dunn Y, Edwardson T, Fairclough N, Hodgkins R, Hughes J, Humayun K, 
Kaliyaperumal V, Lawton S, Leary J, Loganathan S, Mackenzie N, McDermott M, 
Paraoan M, Paterson D, Pender L, Prasad P, Smith J, Spence C, Roberts L, 
Robinson A.

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Clinical Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Health Economics Unit, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(3)Academic Department of Surgery, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United 
Kingdom; West Midlands Research Collaborative, Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(4)West Midlands Research Collaborative, Birmingham, United Kingdom.
(5)Primary Care Clinical Sciences, University of Birmingham, Birmingham, United 
Kingdom; West Midlands Research Collaborative, Birmingham, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Wound-edge protection devices (WEPDs) have been used in surgery for 
more than 40 years to reduce surgical site infection (SSI). No economic 
evaluation of WEPDs against any comparator has ever been conducted. The aim of 
the paper was to assess whether WEPDs are cost-effective in reducing SSI 
compared to standard care alone in the United Kingdom.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: An economic evaluation was conducted alongside the ROSSINI 
trial. The study perspective was that of the UK National Health Service and the 
time horizon was 30 days post-operatively. The study was conducted in 21 UK 
hospitals. 760 patients undergoing laparotomy were randomised to either WEPD or 
standard care and 735 were included in the primary analysis. The main economic 
outcome was cost-effectiveness based on incremental cost (£) per quality 
adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Patients in the WEPD arm accessed health care 
worth £5,420 on average and gained 0.02131 QALYs, compared to £5,130 and 0.02133 
QALYs gained in the standard care arm. The WEPD strategy was more costly and 
equally effective compared to standard care, but there was significant 
uncertainty around incremental costs and QALYs. The findings were robust to a 
range of sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: There is no evidence to suggest that WEPDs can be considered a cost 
effective device to reduce SSI. Their continued use is a waste of limited health 
care resources.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0095595
PMCID: PMC3991705
PMID: 24748154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


950. Bull Environ Contam Toxicol. 2014 Aug;93(2):165-70. doi: 
10.1007/s00128-014-1281-y. Epub 2014 Apr 19.

The life-table demographic response of freshwater rotifer Brachionus 
calyciflorus to multi-metal (Cu, Zn, Cd, Cr, and Mn) mixture interaction.

Xu XP(1), Xi YL, Huang L, Xiang XL.

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Biotic Environment and Ecological Safety in Anhui Province, 
College of Life Sciences, Anhui Normal University, Wuhu, 241000, Anhui, China.

The effects of multi-metal mixtures on the life-table demography of rotifers are 
not well known. In this study, the freshwater rotifer Brachionus calyciflorus 
was exposed to mixture of Cu, Zn, Cd, Cr, and Mn, and the life-table demographic 
parameters including net reproductive rate, generation time, life expectancy at 
hatching, and intrinsic rate of population increase were calculated. The results 
showed that interactions between a given element concentration, except Mn, and 
the other four elements mixture concentration affected the intrinsic rate of 
population increase (p < 0.01). Interactions between Zn concentration, as well 
as Mn, and the other four elements mixture concentration affected the net 
reproductive rate and the life expectancy at hatching, respectively (p < 0.05). 
The variation of parameters with the rise of the other four elements mixture 
concentrations from 0 to high was mainly attributed to the difference of 
interaction among the five metals mixture with different ratio of 
concentrations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00128-014-1281-y
PMID: 24748220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Clin Exp Immunol. 2014 Aug;177(2):544-53. doi: 10.1111/cei.12358.

Repeat treatment of acute hereditary angioedema attacks with open-label 
icatibant in the FAST-1 trial.

Malbrán A(1), Riedl M, Ritchie B, Smith WB, Yang W, Banerji A, Hébert J, Gleich 
GJ, Hurewitz D, Jacobson KW, Bernstein JA, Khan DA, Kirkpatrick CH, Resnick D, 
Li H, Fernández Romero DS, Lumry W.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Británico de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Hereditary angioedema (HAE) is characterized by potentially life-threatening 
recurrent episodes of oedema. The open-label extension (OLE) phase of the For 
Angioedema Subcutaneous Treatment (FAST)-1 trial (NCT00097695) evaluated the 
efficacy and safety of repeated icatibant exposure in adults with multiple HAE 
attacks. Following completion of the randomized, controlled phase, patients 
could receive open-label icatibant (30 mg subcutaneously) for subsequent 
attacks. The primary end-point was time to onset of primary symptom relief, as 
assessed by visual analogue scale (VAS). Descriptive statistics were reported 
for cutaneous/abdominal attacks 1-10 treated in the OLE phase and individual 
laryngeal attacks. Post-hoc analyses were conducted in patients with ≥ 5 attacks 
across the controlled and OLE phases. Safety was evaluated throughout. During 
the OLE phase, 72 patients received icatibant for 340 attacks. For 
cutaneous/abdominal attacks 1-10, the median time to onset of primary symptom 
relief was 1·0-2·0 h. For laryngeal attacks 1-12, patient-assessed median time 
to initial symptom improvement was 0·3-1·2 h. Post-hoc analyses showed the time 
to onset of symptom relief based on composite VAS was consistent across repeated 
treatments with icatibant. One injection of icatibant was sufficient to treat 
88·2% of attacks; rescue medication was required in 5·3% of attacks. No 
icatibant-related serious adverse events were reported. Icatibant provided 
consistent efficacy and was well tolerated for repeated treatment of HAE 
attacks.

© 2014 British Society for Immunology.

DOI: 10.1111/cei.12358
PMCID: PMC4226605
PMID: 24749847 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Technol Cancer Res Treat. 2016 Feb;15(1):171-8. doi:
10.7785/tcrt.2012.500431.  Epub 2014 Nov 26.

The Technique, Resources and Costs of Stereotactic Body Radiotherapy of Prostate 
Cancer: A Comparison of Dose Regimens and Delivery Systems.

Sharieff W(1), Greenspoon JN(2), Dayes I(2), Chow T(2), Wright J(2), Lukka H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Juravinski Cancer Centre, Hamilton Health 
Sciences, Hamilton, ON, Canada Department of Oncology, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, ON, Canada Department of Medicine, Division of Oncology, Cape Breton 
Regional Cancer Centre, Sydney, NS, Canada Department of Radiation Oncology, 
Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada doc.sharieff@utoronto.ca.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, Juravinski Cancer Centre, Hamilton Health 
Sciences, Hamilton, ON, Canada Department of Oncology, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, ON, Canada.

Robotic system has been used for stereotactic body radiotherapy (SBRT) of 
prostate cancer. Arc-based and fixed-gantry systems are used for 
hypofractionated regimens (10-20 fractions) and the standard regimen (39 
fractions); they may also be used to deliver SBRT. Studies are currently 
underway to compare efficacy and safety of these systems and regimens. Thus, we 
describe the technique and required resources for the provision of robotic SBRT 
in relation to the standard regimen and other systems to guide investment 
decisions. Using administrative data of resource volumes and unit prices, we 
computed the cost per patient, cost per cure and cost per quality adjusted life 
year (QALY) of four regimens (5, 12, 20 and 39 fractions) and three delivery 
systems (robotic, arc-based and fixed-gantry) from a payer's perspective. We 
performed sensitivity analyses to examine the effects of daily hours of 
operation and in-room treatment delivery times on cost per patient. In addition, 
we estimated the budget impact when a robotic system is preferred over an 
arc-based or fixed-gantry system. Costs of SBRT were $6333/patient (robotic), 
$4368/patient (arc-based) and $4443/patient (fixed-gantry). When daily hours of 
operation were varied, the cost of robotic SBRT varied from $9324/patient (2 
hours daily) to $5250/patient (10 hours daily). This was comparable to the costs 
of 39 fraction standard regimen which were $5935/patient (arc-based) and $7992/ 
patient (fixed-gantry). In settings of moderate to high patient volume, robotic 
SBRT is cost effective compared to the standard regimen. If SBRT can be 
delivered with equivalent efficacy and safety, the arc-based system would be the 
most cost effective system.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.7785/tcrt.2012.500431
PMID: 24750007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. Diabet Med. 2014 Aug;31(8):954-62. doi: 10.1111/dme.12468. Epub 2014 May 8.

Predicting mortality in people with type 2 diabetes mellitus after major 
complications: a study using Swedish National Diabetes Register data.

Kelly PJ(1), Clarke PM, Hayes AJ, Gerdtham UG, Cederholm J, Nilsson P, Eliasson 
B, Gudbjornsdottir S.

Author information:
(1)Sydney School of Public Health, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

AIM: To predict mortality risk and life expectancy for patients with type 2 
diabetes after a major diabetes-related complication.
METHODS: The study sample, taken from the Swedish National Diabetes Register, 
consisted of 20 836 people with type 2 diabetes who had their first major 
complication (myocardial infarction, stroke, heart failure, amputation or renal 
failure) between January 2001 and December 2007. A Gompertz proportional hazards 
model was derived which determined significant risk factors associated with 
mortality and was used to estimate life expectancies.
RESULTS: Risk of death changed over time according to type of complication, with 
myocardial infarction initally having the highest initial risk of death, but 
after the first month, the risk was higher for heart failure, renal failure and 
amputation. Other factors that increased the risk of death were male gender 
(hazard ratio 1.06, 95% CI 1.02-1.12), longer duration of diabetes (hazard ratio 
1.07 per 10 years, 95% CI 1.04-1.10), smoking (hazard ratio 1.51, 95% CI 
1.40-1.63) and macroalbuminuria (hazard ratio 1.14, 95% CI 1.06-1.22). Low BMI, 
low systolic blood pressure and low estimated GFR also increased mortality risk. 
Life expectancy was highest after a stroke, myocardial infarction or heart 
failure, lower after amputation and lowest after renal failure. Smoking and poor 
renal function were the risk factors which had the largest impact on reducing 
life expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Risk of death and life expectancy differs substantially among the 
major complications of diabetes, and factors significantly increasing risk 
included smoking, low estimated GFR and albuminuria.

© 2014 The Authors. Diabetic Medicine © 2014 Diabetes UK.

DOI: 10.1111/dme.12468
PMID: 24750341 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2014 Aug;38(4):377-83. doi:
10.1111/1753-6405.12194.  Epub 2014 Apr 22.

Ageing across the Tasman Sea: the demographics and health of older adults in 
Australia and New Zealand.

Kowal P(1), Towers A, Byles J.

Author information:
(1)World Health Organization Study on global AGEing and adult health (SAGE), 
Switzerland; University of Newcastle Research Centre on Gender, Health and 
Ageing (Hunter Medical Research Institute), New South Wales.

OBJECTIVE: The demographic and health aspects of ageing populations in Australia 
and New Zealand (NZ) are described. These data are relevant to compare impacts 
of policy and context in each country.
METHODS: Secondary analysis of international (Organization for Economic 
Co-operation and Development, United Nations and World Health Organization) and 
domestic population and health data.
RESULTS: Both countries will experience a greater than 80% increase in the 
population aged 60-plus years between 2013 and 2050. The increase in the 80-plus 
population will be 200% or higher, resulting in 2.8 million Australians and more 
than 510,000 New Zealanders in this age group by 2050. The speed of ageing in 
both countries is higher than the average rate of increase in developed 
countries. Average life expectancy at birth and age 60 is higher in Australia 
than NZ, with the differences increasing slightly by 2050, and gaps between men 
and women consistently smaller in NZ than in Australia. However, a higher 
proportion of older Australians report living with a disability (53%) than older 
New Zealanders (45%).
CONCLUSIONS: Australia and NZ are well aged in the context of a youthful Oceania 
region, with more similarities than differences between the countries.
IMPLICATIONS: Both countries need to continue to monitor health trends, unravel 
the major population attributable risks, and identify preventative and other 
interventions that can stimulate and support declines in disability in older 
populations in the future, particularly for non-indigenous older persons.

© 2014 Public Health Association of Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-6405.12194
PMID: 24750537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


955. Liver Int. 2015 Mar;35(3):746-55. doi: 10.1111/liv.12569. Epub 2014 May 20.

The burden of alcoholism in fifteen years of cirrhosis hospital admissions in 
Portugal.

Marinho RT(1), Duarte H, Gíria J, Nunes J, Ferreira A, Velosa J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Hospital of Santa 
Maria, Medical School of Lisbon, Lisbon, Portugal.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Deploying a longitudinal perspective, we observe how 
cirrhosis caused mortality rates in Portugal are converging with the levels 
reported in the European Union (15 countries). However, we still lack analysis 
of the burden of alcoholic cirrhosis in terms of hospital admissions and 
associated mortality. As Portugal may be considered a paradigmatic case in 
Europe, our aim was to characterize the evolution of hospital admissions for 
alcoholic cirrhosis between 1993 and 2008 and draw conclusions for other 
countries.
METHODS: Retrospective analysis of the hepatic cirrhosis admissions in 97 
Portuguese state hospitals was carried out based on the National Registry.
RESULTS: We report a convergence in terms of mortality rates resulting from 
cirrhosis between Portugal and European Union (a differential of 6.7 deaths per 
100 000 habitants in 1994 to 0.4 in 2008). We accounted for 81 543 hospital 
admissions for cirrhosis: 84% for alcoholic cirrhosis and 16% for non-alcoholic 
cirrhosis. Hospital admissions have increased 29% in men and with no increase in 
women. In the male, alcoholic cirrhosis patient group aged between 40 and 54, 
the rise in hospital admissions was more pronounced with an increase of around 
45%. These patients underwent longer lengths of stay and reported higher 
mortality rates and passing away 20 years earlier than the average national 
expectancy of life.
CONCLUSIONS: These data draw attention to the burden of alcohol consumption not 
only in Portugal but also in other countries and its impacts on hospital systems 
and on policy making.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/liv.12569
PMID: 24750642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Jul 1;89(3):563-8. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.03.001. Epub 2014 Apr 18.

Decision analysis of stereotactic radiation surgery versus stereotactic 
radiation surgery and whole-brain radiation therapy for 1 to 3 brain metastases.

Lester-Coll NH(1), Dosoretz AP(2), Yu JB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut. Electronic address: nataniel.lester-coll@yale.edu.
(2)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut.
(3)Department of Therapeutic Radiology, Yale University School of Medicine, New 
Haven, Connecticut; Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy and Effectiveness Research 
Center, Yale Comprehensive Cancer Center, and Yale University School of 
Medicine, New Haven, Connecticut.

PURPOSE: Although whole-brain radiation therapy (WBRT) is effective for 
controlling intracranial disease, it is also associated with neurocognitive side 
effects. It is unclear whether a theoretically improved quality of life after 
stereotactic radiation surgery (SRS) alone relative to that after SRS with 
adjuvant WBRT would justify the omission of WBRT, given the higher risk of 
intracranial failure. This study compares SRS alone with SRS and WBRT, to 
evaluate the theoretical benefits of intracranial tumor control with adjuvant 
WBRT against its possible side effects, using quality-adjusted life expectancy 
(QALE) as a primary endpoint.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: A Markov decision analysis model was used to compare QALE 
in a cohort of patients with 1 to 3 brain metastases and Karnofsky performance 
status of at least 70. Patients were treated with SRS alone or with SRS 
immediately followed by WBRT. Patients treated with SRS alone underwent 
surveillance magnetic resonance imaging and received salvage WBRT if they 
developed intracranial relapse. All patients whose cancer relapsed after WBRT 
underwent simulation as dying of intracranial progression. Model parameters were 
estimated from published literature.
RESULTS: Treatment with SRS yielded 6.2 quality-adjusted life months (QALMs). 
The addition of initial WBRT reduced QALE by 1.2 QALMs. On one-way sensitivity 
analysis, the model was sensitive only to a single parameter, the utility 
associated with the state of no evidence of disease after SRS alone. At values 
greater than 0.51, SRS alone was preferred.
CONCLUSIONS: In general, SRS alone is suggested to have improved quality of life 
in patients with 1 to 3 brain metastases compared to SRS and immediate WBRT. Our 
results suggest that immediate treatment with WBRT after SRS can be reserved for 
patients who would have a poor performance status regardless of treatment. These 
findings are stable under a wide range of assumptions.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.03.001
PMID: 24751412 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. Heart Lung Circ. 2014 Sep;23(9):841-6. doi: 10.1016/j.hlc.2014.03.017. Epub
2014  Mar 26.

Aortic valve replacement in octogenarians.

Ditchfield JA(1), Granger E(2), Spratt P(2), Jansz P(2), Dhital K(2), Farnsworth 
A(2), Hayward C(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, University of New South Wales, Sydney NSW 2052, 
Australia. Electronic address: jess_ditchfield@hotmail.com.
(2)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, St Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst, 
Sydney NSW 2010, Australia.
(3)Department of Cardiology, St Vincent's Hospital, Darlinghurst, Sydney NSW 
2010, Australia.

BACKGROUND: With improved life expectancy more octogenarians now present with 
aortic valve disease. Cardiac surgery in this group of patients has previously 
been considered high risk due to co-morbidities and challenges of 
rehabilitation. This study seeks to challenge the concept of octogenarian 
cardiac surgery "unsuitability" by analysing operative outcomes and long term 
survival following aortic valve replacement.
METHODS: Eighty-seven consecutive patients undergoing aortic valve replacement 
between 2000 and 2009 at St Vincent's Hospital were retrospectively identified. 
Statistical analysis was performed using SPSS (version 15 and 19).
RESULTS: The average age was 82.7 ± 2.4 years. The mean logistic EuroSCORE was 
18.86 ± 14.11. Post-operatively, four patients required insertion of a permanent 
pacemaker (4.6%) and five patients had a myocardial infarction (5.8%). 
In-hospital mortality was 3.4%. Follow-up was 93.1% complete. One-year survival 
was 92.9%, three-year survival was 86.7% and five-year survival was 75.0%. At 
follow-up 98.1% of patients were New York Heart Association (NYHA) Class I or 
II.
CONCLUSIONS: Results were excellent despite reasonable co-morbidities and 
Euroscore risk. Survival was impressive and the NYHA class reflected the success 
of the surgery in relieving the pathological aortic valve process. Patient age 
should not be the primary exclusion for cardiac surgery for aortic valve 
disease.

Crown Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.hlc.2014.03.017
PMID: 24751512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2014 Jun;10(6):338-51. doi: 10.1038/nrendo.2014.51. Epub
 2014 Apr 22.

Geographic and ethnic disparities in osteoporotic fractures.

Cauley JA(1), Chalhoub D(1), Kassem AM(1), Fuleihan Gel-H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health, University of 
Pittsburgh, 130 DeSoto Street, Crabtree A510, Pittsburgh, PA 15261, USA.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, WHO Collaborating 
Centre for Metabolic Bone Disorders, American University of Beirut, PO Box 
11-0236, Riad El Solh, Beirut 1107 2020, Lebanon.

Osteoporotic fractures are a major worldwide epidemic. Here, we review global 
variability, ethnic differences and secular changes in osteoporotic fractures. 
Worldwide, age-standardized incidence rates of hip fracture vary >200-fold in 
women and >140-fold in men when comparing the country in which incidence rates 
are the highest with that in which they are the lowest. Median age-standardized 
rates are highest in North America and Europe, followed by Asia, Middle East, 
Oceania, Latin America and Africa. Globally, rates of hip fracture are greater 
in women than in men, with an average ratio of ∼2:1. The incidence of 
radiographic vertebral fractures is much higher than that of hip fractures, 
whereas the incidence rates of clinical vertebral fractures mirror hip fracture 
rates in most countries. Methodological challenges of defining and ascertaining 
vertebral fractures limit the interpretation of these data. Secular declines in 
hip fracture rates have been reported in populations from North America, Europe 
and Oceania. These declines are especially notable in women, suggesting that 
reproductive factors might contribute to this reduction. By contrast, hip 
fracture rates are increasing in parts of Asia and Latin America. Global 
indicators of health, education and socioeconomic status are positively 
correlated with fracture rates suggesting that lifestyles in developed countries 
might contribute to hip fracture. Improvements in fracture assessment, in 
particular for nonhip fractures, and identification of factors that contribute 
to this variability might substantially influence our understanding of 
osteoporotic fracture aetiology and provide new avenues for prevention.

DOI: 10.1038/nrendo.2014.51
PMID: 24751883 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Int J Public Health. 2014 Jun;59(3):565-9. doi: 10.1007/s00038-014-0552-z.
Epub  2014 Apr 22.

Calculating disability-adjusted life years to quantify burden of disease.

Devleesschauwer B(1), Havelaar AH, Maertens de Noordhout C, Haagsma JA, Praet N, 
Dorny P, Duchateau L, Torgerson PR, Van Oyen H, Speybroeck N.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Public Health, Institute of Health and Society (IRSS), Université 
catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium, Brecht.Devleesschauwer@UGent.be.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-014-0552-z
PMID: 24752429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Aging (Albany NY). 2014 Mar;6(3):187-206. doi: 10.18632/aging.100646.

Optimal therapy of type 2 diabetes: a controversial challenge.

Dardano A(1), Penno G, Del Prato S, Miccoli R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, Section of Diabetes and 
Metabolic Diseases, University of Pisa, Via Paradisa 2, 56124, Pisa, Italy.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is one of the most common chronic disorders in 
older adults and the number of elderly diabetic subjects is growing worldwide. 
Nonetheless, the diagnosis of T2DM in elderly population is often missed or 
delayed until an acute metabolic emergency occurs. Accumulating evidence 
suggests that both aging and environmental factors contribute to the high 
prevalence of diabetes in the elderly. Clinical management of T2DM in elderly 
subjects presents unique challenges because of the multifaceted geriatric 
scenario. Diabetes significantly lowers the chances of "successful" aging, 
notably it increases functional limitations and impairs quality of life. In this 
regard, older diabetic patients have a high burden of comorbidities, 
diabetes-related complications, physical disability, cognitive impairment and 
malnutrition, and they are more susceptible to the complications of dysglycemia 
and polypharmacy. Several national and international organizations have 
delivered guidelines to implement optimal therapy in older diabetic patients 
based on individualized treatment goals. This means appreciation of the 
heterogeneity of the disease as generated by life expectancy, functional 
reserve, social support, as well as personal preference. This paper will review 
current treatments for achieving glycemic targets in elderly diabetic patients, 
and discuss the potential role of emerging treatments in this patient 
population.

DOI: 10.18632/aging.100646
PMCID: PMC4012936
PMID: 24753144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2014 Jul;29(7):1362-8. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfu016.
Epub  2014 Apr 21.

The economic impact of acute kidney injury in England.

Kerr M(1), Bedford M(2), Matthews B(3), O'Donoghue D(4).

Author information:
(1)Insight Health Economics, London, UK.
(2)Department of Renal Medicine, East Kent Hospitals University NHS Foundation 
Trust, Canterbury, UK.
(3)NHS Improving Quality, Newcastle upon Tyne, UK.
(4)Salford Royal NHS Foundation Trust, Salford, UK.

Comment in
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2014 Jul;29(7):1270-2.

BACKGROUND: Acute kidney injury (AKI) is one of the most common complications 
affecting hospital inpatients around the world. It is associated with high 
mortality and adverse long-term outcomes, but there is uncertainty regarding its 
prevalence and cost. We estimate the prevalence of AKI in hospital inpatients in 
a universal health-care system, and the immediate and long-term impacts on 
survival, quality of life and health-care costs.
METHODS: We examined prevalence of AKI in inpatients using both routine national 
data for the National Health Service (NHS) in England, and laboratory data from 
East Kent Hospitals. We used regression analyses to estimate the impact of AKI 
on mortality and length of hospital stay, and a Markov model to estimate the 
impact on quality-adjusted life years and NHS costs.
RESULTS: AKI was recorded in 2.43% of hospital admissions in Hospital Episode 
Statistics (HES), but age- and gender-standardized estimates derived from 
laboratory data suggest the true prevalence may be more than five times as high 
(14.15%). We estimate that the annual number of excess inpatient deaths 
associated with AKI in England may be above 40,000. The annual cost of 
AKI-related inpatient care in England is estimated at £1.02 billion, just over 
1% of the NHS budget. The lifetime cost of post-discharge care for people who 
had AKI during hospital admission in 2010-11 is estimated at £179 million.
CONCLUSIONS: AKI prevalence in inpatients may be considerably higher than 
previously thought, and up to four fifths of cases may not be captured in 
routine hospital data. AKI is associated with large numbers of in-hospital 
deaths and with high NHS costs. Comparison of HES and East Kent data suggests 
that most of the cases recorded in HES may be relatively severe AKI (AKIN 2-3).

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of ERA-EDTA. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfu016
PMID: 24753459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Facts Views Vis Obgyn. 2012;4(1):30-7.

Soy consumption during menopause.

Bolca S(1), Bracke M(2), Depypere H(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Bioinformatics and Computational Genomics (Biobix), Faculty of 
Bioscience Engineering, Ghent University, Coupure links 653, B-9000 Ghent, 
Belgium.
(2)Laboratory for Experimental Cancer Research, Department of Radiotherapy and 
Experimental Cancer Research, Ghent University Hospital, De Pintelaan 185, 
B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Menopause Clinic and Breast Clinic, Ghent University Hospital, De Pintelaan 
185, B-9000 Ghent, Belgium.

In developed countries, the life expectancy of women is currently extending more 
than 30 years beyond the age of menopause. The menopausal transition is often 
associated with complaints. The conflicting results on the effectivity of 
phytoestrogens to alleviate menopausal symptoms. This discrepancy in treatment 
effect may be due to the large interindividual variation in isoflavone 
bioavailability in general and equol production in particular. Equol, a 
microbial metabolite of daidzein, has been hypothesized as a clue to the 
effectiveness of soy and its isoflavones, but only about 30-50% of the 
population harbor an intestinal microbial ecosystem supporting the conversion of 
daidzein into equol. There is much concern on breast cancer, since this 
incidence of this disease increases with age. There is indication that soy 
phytoestrogens may decrease this breast cancer incidence. In order to evaluate 
the estrogenic potential of these exposure levels, we studied the 
isoflavone-derived E2α- and E2β-equivalents (i.e. 17β-estradiol (E2)-equivalents 
towards ERα and ERβ, respectively) in human breast tissue. Total isoflavones 
showed a breast adipose/glandular tissue distribution of 40/60 and their derived 
E2β-equivalents exceeded on average 21 ± 4 and 40 ± 10 times the endogenous E2 
concentrations in corresponding adipose and glandular biopsies, respectively, 
whereas the E2α/E2 ratios were 0.4 ± 0.1 and 0.8 ± 0.2 in adipose and glandular 
breast tissue, respectively. These calculations suggest that, at least in this 
case, soy consumption could elicit partial ERβ agonistic effects in human breast 
tissue. We are currently characterizing the differential activation of 
estrogen-responsive genes between dietary isoflavones, the chemopreventive 
selective ER modulators tamoxifen and raloxifene and exogenous estrogens in a 
controlled dietary intervention trial that integrates data on the exposure to 
estrogenically active compounds, expression of isoflavone and estrogen target 
genes, and epigenetic events. During the menopause, there is a close relation 
between the drop in serum estrogen and negative metabolic changes such as the 
increase in bone resorption and negative change in the serum lipid profile. 
Randomized controlled trials measuring bone turnover markers in menopausal women 
revealed that soy isoflavone supplements significantly but moderately decrease 
the bone resorption marker urinary deoxypyridinoline without significant effects 
on the bone formation markers serum bone alkaline phosphatase and osteocalcin.

PMCID: PMC3991438
PMID: 24753886


963. Ecol Lett. 2014 Jul;17(7):811-20. doi: 10.1111/ele.12285. Epub 2014 Apr 22.

Ecological traits influence the phylogenetic structure of bird species 
co-occurrences worldwide.

Barnagaud JY(1), Daniel Kissling W, Sandel B, Eiserhardt WL, Sekercioğlu CH, 
Enquist BJ, Tsirogiannis C, Svenning JC.

Author information:
(1)Section for Ecoinformatics & Biodiversity, Department of Bioscience, Aarhus 
University, DK-8000, Aarhus C, Denmark.

The extent to which species' ecological and phylogenetic relatedness shape their 
co-occurrence patterns at large spatial scales remains poorly understood. By 
quantifying phylogenetic assemblage structure within geographic ranges of >8000 
bird species, we show that global co-occurrence patterns are linked - after 
accounting for regional effects - to key ecological traits reflecting diet, 
mobility, body size and climatic preference. We found that co-occurrences of 
carnivorous, migratory and cold-climate species are phylogenetically clustered, 
whereas nectarivores, herbivores, frugivores and invertebrate eaters tend to be 
more phylogenetically overdispersed. Preference for open or forested habitats 
appeared to be independent from the level of phylogenetic clustering. Our 
results advocate for an extension of the tropical niche conservatism hypothesis 
to incorporate ecological and life-history traits beyond the climatic niche. 
They further offer a novel species-oriented perspective on how biogeographic and 
evolutionary legacies interact with ecological traits to shape global patterns 
of species coexistence in birds.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd/CNRS.

DOI: 10.1111/ele.12285
PMID: 24754339 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. Am J Public Health. 2014 Jun;104 Suppl 3(Suppl 3):S312-9. doi: 
10.2105/AJPH.2013.301635. Epub 2014 Apr 22.

Period life tables for the non-Hispanic American Indian and Alaska Native 
population, 2007-2009.

Arias E(1), Xu J, Jim MA.

Author information:
(1)Elizabeth Arias and Jiaquan Xu are with the Mortality Statistics Branch, 
Division of Vital Statistics, National Center for Health Statistics, Centers for 
Disease Control and Prevention, Hyattsville, MD. Melissa A. Jim is with the 
Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA.

OBJECTIVES: We estimated complete period life tables for the non-Hispanic 
American Indian and Alaska Native (AI/AN) population residing in Contract Health 
Service Delivery Area (CHSDA) counties for the period 2007-2009.
METHODS: We used National Vital Statistics System mortality data files for years 
2007-2009 corrected for AI/AN misclassification on death certificates, midyear 
2008 revised census bridged race intercensal population estimates, and National 
Vital Statistics System birth data for years 2006-2009. We used the same 
methodology as that used to estimate official US annual life tables, with some 
minor modifications.
RESULTS: For the period 2007-2009, the non-Hispanic AI/AN population in CHSDA 
counties had the lowest life expectancy at birth (71.1 years) of any 
racial/ethnic group for which official US life tables are estimated. By 
comparison, in 2008, life expectancy at birth was 73.9 years for the 
non-Hispanic Black population, 78.4 years for the non-Hispanic White population, 
and 80.8 years for the Hispanic population.
CONCLUSIONS: The life tables showed a clear mortality disadvantage for the 
non-Hispanic AI/AN population in CHSDA counties relative to other national 
populations. The findings suggested that further research is necessary to 
explore the causes behind these disadvantages.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2013.301635
PMCID: PMC4035861
PMID: 24754553 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Intern Med J. 2014 Apr;44(4):315-24. doi: 10.1111/imj.12381.

Cardiovascular disease in human immunodeficiency virus.

Cheruvu S(1), Holloway CJ.

Author information:
(1)St Vincent's Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

With widespread access to high-quality medical care as in Australia, human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) is now considered a chronic, treatable condition, 
with a good life expectancy. The use of combined highly active antiretroviral 
therapy has enabled effective suppression of the virus, but has also been 
associated with increased cardiac morbidity and mortality. Over representation 
of traditional cardiac risk factors, such as hyperlipidaemia and diabetes, as 
well as an increased incidence of ischaemic and non-ischaemic heart disease is 
now considered a major concern of treatment with antiretroviral therapy. 
Therefore, a contemporary management strategy for patients with HIV must include 
active prevention and treatment of cardiovascular risk. This review will outline 
the complex interplay between HIV infection, antiretroviral drug regimens and 
accelerated cardiovascular disease, with a particular focus on screening, 
prevention and treatment options in a contemporary Australian HIV population.

© 2014 The Authors; Internal Medicine Journal © 2014 Royal Australasian College 
of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/imj.12381
PMID: 24754684 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. OMICS. 2014 Jul;18(7):472-80. doi: 10.1089/omi.2013.0167. Epub 2014 Apr 22.

A call for policy action in sub-Saharan Africa to rethink diagnostics for 
pregnancy affected by sickle cell disease: differential views of medical 
doctors, parents and adult patients predict value conflicts in Cameroon.

Wonkam A(1), Hurst S.

Author information:
(1)1 Division of Human Genetics, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Cape 
Town , Cape Town, South Africa .

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a debilitating illness that affects the life 
expectancy of patients. It is possible to test for SCD before birth, to allow 
for reproductive options to parents. However, under Cameroonian Law, voluntary 
abortion is a criminal offense and medical abortion is permitted only "…if it is 
done by an authorized professional and justified by the need to save the mother 
from grave health jeopardy." The objective of the present study was to compare 
the views of Cameroonian doctors, parents with at least one living SCD-affected 
child, and adult SCD patients, regarding prenatal genetic diagnosis and 
termination of SCD-affected pregnancy. We conducted a quantitative sociological 
survey of 110 doctors, 130 parents, and 89 adult patients. The majority accepted 
the prenatal genetic diagnosis for SCD (78.7%, 89.8%, and 89.2%, respectively). 
Parents (62.5%) were more in favor of termination of SCD-affected pregnancy, 
than doctors and adults patients (36.1% and 40.9% acceptance, respectively). 
Parents and patients who found medical abortion acceptable cited fear to have a 
SCD-affected child (98.1 and 88.9%) and the poor quality of the affected child's 
health (92.6% and 81.5%). The data underscore the urgency of policy action to 
place emphasis on: premarital screening, early detection and care of SCD, 
socio-economic measures to assist SCD-affected families, appropriateness to 
consider maternal distress due to fetal anomalies in medical abortion 
legislation. These novel findings signal potential value-based conflicts on the 
horizon, and can usefully inform the future policy actions in the African 
continent as OMICS biotechnologies are increasingly employed in global health. 
To the best of our knowledge, the present study is the first attempt in 
sub-Saharan Africa to attempt to triangulate the views of multiple stakeholders 
towards prenatal diagnosis of SCD and termination of an affected pregnancy.

DOI: 10.1089/omi.2013.0167
PMCID: PMC4086195
PMID: 24754796 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2014;81(1):33-9.

[Effect of sterilisation with formaldehyde, gamma irradiation and ethylene oxide 
on the properties of polyethylene joint replacement components].

[Article in Czech]

Fulín P(1), Pokorný D, Slouf M, Vacková T, Dybal J, Sosna A.

Author information:
(1)I. ortopedická klinika 1. LF UK a FN Motol, Praha.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Each method of sterilisation has some effect on the 
structure and properties of UHMWPE and thus also on joint replacement longevity. 
This study was designed to compare, using objective methods of measurement, 
several kinds of sterilisation and to recommend the one which has the best 
prospect for making joint replacements last longer.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: Two groups of UHMWPE samples were tested. Group 1 included 
virgin GUR 1020 polyethylene, non-modified and non-sterilised (Meditech, 
Germany). Group 2 comprised of three sets of samples sterilised with 
formaldehyde, gamma irradiation and ethylene oxide, respectively. In both 
groups, physicochemical properties were assessed by infrared spectroscopy (IR), 
and the oxidation (OI) and trans-vinyl (VI) indices, which show the degree of 
oxidation of a material, were determined. Free-radical concentrations were 
measured by the method of electron spin resonance (ESR). The mechanical 
properties of each sample were studied using small punch tests (SPT) and testing 
microhardness (MH). Any change in mechanical properties can affect, to various 
degrees, the quality and longevity of a prosthetic joint.
RESULTS: The samples sterilised by gamma irradiation showed higher values of 
both the OI (0.37) and the VI index (0.038) than the other samples (OI, 0.02 to 
0.05 and VI, 0). Also, the free-radical concentration was detectable only in the 
gamma-sterilised sample. Values obtained for mechanical properties were as 
follows: peak load in the range of 58.48 N (gamma irradiation) to 59.60 N 
(ethylene oxide); ultimate load in the range of 46.69 N (gamma irradiation) to 
57.50 N (ethylene oxide); ultimate displacement in the range of 4.29 mm (gamma 
irradiation) to 4.58 mm (virgin polyethylene and formaldehyde); and work to 
failure in the range of 185.18 mJ (gamma irradiation) to 205.89 mJ (virgin 
polyethylene). Microhardness values were obtained in the following ranges: 41.2 
to 44.6 MPa (virgin polyethylene); 40.2 to 44.1 MPa (formaldehyde); 46.1 to 49.3 
MPa (gamma irradiation); and 40.3 to 44.2 MPa (ethylene oxide).
DISCUSSION: The samples sterilised with formaldehyde and ethylene oxide have 
mechanical properties very similar to virgin polyethylene, they are not damaged 
by oxidation and do not contain free radicals. Owing to these characteristics, 
the immediate and long-term oxidation stability of the three samples is higher. 
The sample sterilised by gamma irradiation showed the presence of free radicals 
and immediate and long-term oxidative degradation. This results in the 
deterioration of mechanical properties and the growth of crystallinity due to 
enhanced oxidation and leads to higher polyethylene microhardness.
CONCLUSIONS: Sterilisation with gamma irradiation results in oxidative 
degradation and mechanical property deterioration, which is one of the potential 
risks of a shorter life span of joint replacements. The use of ethylene oxide or 
formaldehyde does not change polymer properties nor has any effect on oxidation 
of materials. Therefore, a longer life expectancy of the joint replacements 
sterilised with ethylene oxide can be expected. The life span of their joint 
replacements is a key issue for the patients. Prosthetic joint loosening is 
painful and the patient often requires re-implantation. A higher number of 
re-implantations is associated with higher costs for the institution involved 
and, consequently, for the whole health care system. Although this study 
basically deals with chemical issues, it informs the surgeon of the latest 
developments leading to the improvement of implanted materials, which can 
increase the life expectancy of joint replacements and patients' satisfaction.

PMID: 24755055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. Biomed Eng Online. 2014 Apr 23;13:49. doi: 10.1186/1475-925X-13-49.

Development and performance of a new prosthesis system using ultrasonic sensor 
for wrist movements: a preliminary study.

Abd Razak NA(1), Abu Osman NA, Gholizadeh H, Ali S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomedical Engineering, Faculty of Engineering, University of 
Malaya, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia. nas_role85@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: The design and performance of a new development prosthesis system 
known as biomechatronics wrist prosthesis is presented in this paper. The 
prosthesis system was implemented by replacing the Bowden tension cable of body 
powered prosthesis system using two ultrasonic sensors, two servo motors and 
microcontroller inside the prosthesis hand for transradial user.
METHODS: The system components and hand prototypes involve the anthropometry, 
CAD design and prototyping, biomechatronics engineering together with the 
prosthetics. The modeler construction of the system develop allows the 
ultrasonic sensors that are placed on the shoulder to generate the wrist 
movement of the prosthesis. The kinematics of wrist movement, which are the 
pronation/supination and flexion/extension were tested using the motion analysis 
and general motion of human hand were compared. The study also evaluated the 
require degree of detection for the input of the ultrasonic sensor to generate 
the wrist movements.
RESULTS: The values collected by the vicon motion analysis for biomechatronics 
prosthesis system were reliable to do the common tasks in daily life. The degree 
of the head needed to bend to give the full input wave was about 45°-55° of 
rotation or about 14 cm-16 cm. The biomechatronics wrist prosthesis gave higher 
degree of rotation to do the daily tasks but did not achieve the maximum degree 
of rotation.
CONCLUSION: The new development of using sensor and actuator in generating the 
wrist movements will be interesting for used list in medicine, robotics 
technology, rehabilitations, prosthetics and orthotics.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-925X-13-49
PMCID: PMC4014438
PMID: 24755242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Dev Comp Immunol. 2014 Oct;46(2):208-21. doi: 10.1016/j.dci.2014.04.009.
Epub  2014 Apr 19.

Gene structure, cDNA characterization and RNAi-based functional analysis of a 
myeloid differentiation factor 88 homolog in Tenebrio molitor larvae exposed to 
Staphylococcus aureus infection.

Patnaik BB(1), Patnaik HH(1), Seo GW(1), Jo YH(1), Lee YS(2), Lee BL(3), Han 
YS(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Plant Biotechnology, Institute of Environmentally-Friendly 
Agriculture (IEFA), College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Chonnam National 
University, Gwangju 500-757, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Life Science and Biotechnology, College of Natural Sciences, 
Soonchunhyang University, Asan City 336-745, Republic of Korea.
(3)National Research Laboratory of Defense Proteins, College of Pharmacy, Pusan 
National University, Jangjeon Dong, Kumjeong Ku, Busan 609-735, Republic of 
Korea.
(4)Division of Plant Biotechnology, Institute of Environmentally-Friendly 
Agriculture (IEFA), College of Agriculture and Life Sciences, Chonnam National 
University, Gwangju 500-757, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
hanys@jnu.ac.kr.

Myeloid differentiation factor 88 (MyD88), an intracellular adaptor protein 
involved in Toll/Toll-like receptor (TLR) signal processing, triggers activation 
of nuclear factor-kappaB (NF-κB) transcription factors. In the present study, we 
analyzed the gene structure and biological function of MyD88 in a coleopteran 
insect, Tenebrio molitor (TmMyD88). The TmMyD88 gene was 1380 bp in length and 
consisted of five exons and four introns. The 5'-flanking sequence revealed 
several putative transcription factor binding sites, such as STAT-4, AP-1, cJun, 
cfos, NF-1 and many heat shock factor binding elements. The cDNA contained a 
typical death domain, a conservative Toll-like interleukin-1 receptor (TIR) 
domain, and a C-terminal extension (CTE). The TmMyD88 TIR domain showed three 
significantly conserved motifs for interacting with the TIR domain of TLRs. 
TmMyD88 was grouped within the invertebrate cluster of the phylogenetic tree and 
shared 75% sequence identity with the TIR domain of Tribolium castaneum MyD88. 
Homology modeling of the TmMyD88 TIR domain revealed five parallel β-strands 
surrounded by five α-helices that adopted loop conformations to function as an 
adaptor. TmMyD88 expression was upregulated 7.3- and 4.79-fold after 12 and 6h, 
respectively, of challenge with Staphylococcus aureus and fungal β-1,3 glucan. 
Silencing of the TmMyD88 transcript by RNA interference led to reduced 
resistance of the host to infection by S. aureus. These results indicate that 
TmMyD88 is required for survival against Staphylococcus infection.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dci.2014.04.009
PMID: 24755285 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Eur J Phys Rehabil Med. 2015 Feb;51(1):23-30. Epub 2014 Apr 23.

Internet-based home training is capable to improve balance in multiple 
sclerosis: a randomized controlled trial.

Frevel D(1), Mäurer M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology Caritas‑Krankenhaus Bad Mergentheim GmbH Bad 
Mergentheim, Germany - dorothea.frevel@ckbm.de.

BACKGROUND: Balance disorders are common in multiple sclerosis.
AIM: Aim of the study is to investigate the effectiveness of an Internet-based 
home training program (e-Training) to improve balance in patients with multiple 
sclerosis.
DESIGN: A randomized, controlled study.
SETTING: Academic teaching hospital in cooperation with the therapeutic riding 
center Gut Üttingshof, Bad Mergentheim.
POPULATION: Eighteen multiple sclerosis patients (mean EDSS 3,5) took part in 
the trial. Outcome of patients using e-Training (N.=9) was compared to the 
outcome of patients receiving hippotherapy (N.=9), which can be considered as an 
advanced concept for the improvement of balance and postural control in multiple 
sclerosis.
METHODS: After simple random allocation patients received hippotherapy or 
Internet-based home training (balance, postural control and strength training) 
twice a week for 12 weeks. Assessments were done before and after the 
intervention and included static and dynamic balance (primary outcome). 
Isometric muscle strength of the knee and trunk extension/flexion (dynamometer), 
walking capacity, fatigue and quality of life served as secondary outcome 
parameters.
RESULTS: Both intervention groups showed comparable and highly significant 
improvement in static and dynamic balance capacity, no difference was seen 
between the both intervention groups. However looking at fatigue and quality of 
life only the group receiving hippotherapy improved significantly.
CONCLUSION: Since e-Training shows even comparable effects to hippotherapy to 
improve balance, we believe that the established Internet-based home training 
program, specialized on balance and postural control training, is feasible for a 
balance and strength training in persons with multiple sclerosis.
CLINICAL REHABILITATION IMPACT: We demonstrated that Internet-based home 
training is possible in patients with multiple sclerosis.

PMID: 24755773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Curr Opin Endocrinol Diabetes Obes. 2014 Jun;21(3):233-8. doi: 
10.1097/MED.0000000000000064.

Management of female-to-male transgender persons: medical and surgical 
management, life expectancy.

Gooren LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, The Netherlands.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Hormonal treatment of transgender people is becoming a normal 
part of medicine, though numbers of subjects remain small because of low 
prevalence. Information on treatment is scattered and this review brings 
together the latest information on treatment goals and potential side-effects of 
androgen treatment of female-to-male transsexual subjects.
RECENT FINDINGS: Androgen treatment of female-to-male transsexuals is usually 
uneventful, with a good patient compliance. Goals of hormonal treatment are 
elimination of secondary sex characteristics of the female sex and induction of 
those of the male sex. Completion takes approximately 2 years. Hormonal 
treatment is eventually followed by surgical ablation of breasts and removal of 
uterus and ovaries. Phalloplasty may be considered. Concerns are the sequelae of 
hypogonadism following surgery, such as loss of bone mass. Contrary to earlier 
expectations, there is no increase in cardiovascular disease. (Hormone-related) 
cancers are rare, but vaginal, cervical, endometrial carcinomas have been 
reported. Cancers of the breasts are of greater concern and have been found in 
residual mammary tissue after breast ablation. So far, androgen treatment has 
not raised major safety concerns. Regrets about changing sex have not been 
reported.
SUMMARY: Testosterone treatment of female-to-male transsexuals is effective and 
well tolerated.

DOI: 10.1097/MED.0000000000000064
