
776. J Signal Process Syst. 2014;74(3):323-339. doi: 10.1007/s11265-013-0835-2.
Epub  2013 Aug 16.

Extending the Generalised Pareto Distribution for Novelty Detection in 
High-Dimensional Spaces.

Clifton DA(1), Clifton L(1), Hugueny S(1), Tarassenko L(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biomedical Engineering, Department of Engineering Science, 
University of Oxford, Old Road Campus, Roosevelt Drive, Oxford, OX3 7DQ UK.

Novelty detection involves the construction of a "model of normality", and then 
classifies test data as being either "normal" or "abnormal" with respect to that 
model. For this reason, it is often termed one-class classification. The 
approach is suitable for cases in which examples of "normal" behaviour are 
commonly available, but in which cases of "abnormal" data are comparatively 
rare. When performing novelty detection, we are typically most interested in the 
tails of the normal model, because it is in these tails that a decision boundary 
between "normal" and "abnormal" areas of data space usually lies. Extreme value 
statistics provides an appropriate theoretical framework for modelling the tails 
of univariate (or low-dimensional) distributions, using the generalised Pareto 
distribution (GPD), which can be demonstrated to be the limiting distribution 
for data occurring within the tails of most practically-encountered probability 
distributions. This paper provides an extension of the GPD, allowing the 
modelling of probability distributions of arbitrarily high dimension, such as 
occurs when using complex, multimodel, multivariate distributions for performing 
novelty detection in most real-life cases. We demonstrate our extension to the 
GPD using examples from patient physiological monitoring, in which we have 
acquired data from hospital patients in large clinical studies of high-acuity 
wards, and in which we wish to determine "abnormal" patient data, such that 
early warning of patient physiological deterioration may be provided.

DOI: 10.1007/s11265-013-0835-2
PMCID: PMC3963457
PMID: 24683434


777. Endocrinol Diabetes Metab Case Rep. 2014;2014:130067. doi:
10.1530/EDM-13-0067.  Epub 2014 Feb 1.

A man with a worrying potassium deficiency.

Tabasum A(1), Shute C(1), Datta D(2), George L(1).

Author information:
(1)Diabetes and Endocrinology Cardiff and Vale NHS Trust Penlan Road, Penarth, 
CF64 2XX, Cardiff, CF14 4BG UK.
(2)Biochemistry Cardiff and Vale NHS Trust Penlan Road, Penarth, Cardiff CF64 
2XX UK.

Hypokalaemia may present as muscle cramps and Cardiac arrhythmias. This is a 
condition commonly encountered by endocrinologists and general physicians alike. 
Herein, we report the case of a 43-year-old gentleman admitted with 
hypokalaemia, who following subsequent investigations was found to have 
Gitelman's syndrome (GS). This rare, inherited, autosomal recessive renal 
tubular disorder is associated with genetic mutations in the thiazide-sensitive 
sodium chloride co-transporter and magnesium channels in the distal convoluted 
tubule. Patients with GS typically presents at an older age, and a spectrum of 
clinical presentations exists, from being asymptomatic to predominant muscular 
symptoms. Clinical suspicion should be raised in those with hypokalaemic 
metabolic alkalosis associated with hypomagnesaemia. Treatment of GS consists of 
long-term potassium and magnesium salt replacement. In general, the long-term 
prognosis in terms of preserved renal function and life expectancy is excellent. 
Herein, we discuss the biochemical imbalance in the aetiology of GS, and the 
case report highlights the need for further investigations in patients with 
recurrent hypokalaemic episodes.
LEARNING POINTS: Recurrent hypokalaemia with no obvious cause warrants 
investigation for hereditary renal tubulopathies.GS is the most common inherited 
renal tubulopathy with a prevalence of 25 per million people.GS typically 
presents at an older age and clinical suspicion should be raised in those with 
hypokalaemic metabolic alkalosis associated with hypomagnesaemia.Confirmation of 
diagnosis is by molecular analysis for mutation in the SLC12A3 gene.

DOI: 10.1530/EDM-13-0067
PMCID: PMC3965273
PMID: 24683481


778. Food Nutr Bull. 2007 Jun;28(2):125-34. doi: 10.1177/156482650702800201.

The human and economic cost of hidden hunger.

Stein AJ, Qaim M.

BACKGROUND: Micronutrient malnutrition is a public health problem in many 
developing countries. Its negative impact on income growth is recognized in 
principle, but there are widely varying estimates of the related economic cost.
OBJECTIVE: To discuss available studies that quantify the cost of micronutrient 
malnutrition, and to develop an alternative framework and apply it to India.
METHODS: Detailed burden of disease calculations are used to estimate the 
economic cost of micronutrient malnutrition based on disability-adjusted life 
years (DALYs) lost.
RESULTS: The short-term economic cost of micronutrient malnutrition in India 
amounts to 0.8% to 2.5% of the gross domestic product.
CONCLUSIONS: Although the results confirm that micronutrient malnutrition is a 
huge economic problem, the estimates are lower than those of most previous 
studies. The differences may be due to differences in underlying assumptions, 
quality of data, and precision of calculation, but also to dynamic interactions 
between nutrition, health, and economic productivity, which are difficult to 
capture. Clear explanation of all calculation details would be desirable for 
future studies in order to increase credibility and transparency.

DOI: 10.1177/156482650702800201
PMID: 24683671 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Food Nutr Bull. 2007 Jun;28(2):243-5.

Nutrition in public health: an unfinished story.

Bengoa JM.

PMID: 24683685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. Soins. 2014 Jan-Feb;(782):6.

[Men-women inequalities in health].

[Article in French]

Mauduit L.

PMID: 24683848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. Srp Arh Celok Lek. 2014 Jan-Feb;142(1-2):113-7. doi: 10.2298/sarh1402113p.

Renal hypertension and cardiovascular disorder in children with chronic kidney 
disease.

Peco-Antić A, Paripović D.

Renal hypertension is one of the earliest and the most prevalent complications 
of pediatric chronic kidney disease (CKD). Among renal patients, hypertension is 
frequently underdiagnosed and undertreated. For casual blood pressure 
measurement, the best method is auscultatory, while for ambulatory blood 
pressure measurement, oscillometric method is the most commonly used. Both 
casual and ambulatory blood pressure measurement provide more powerful means of 
diagnosing hypertension. Masked hypertension is a condition in which casual 
blood pressure is normal but ambulatory blood pressure is elevated. The risk of 
cardiovascular morbidity and mortality is higher with masked hypertension as 
compared to the controls. Children and adolescents with CKD are at high risk of 
cardiovascular disease that has been established as the leading cause of death 
in patients with end stage renal disease. Left ventricular hypertrophy remains 
the most thoroughly documented form of end-organ damage caused by hypertension 
in children and adolescents with CKD. Based on clear evidence on the correlation 
between blood pressure and cardiovascular morbidity, mortality, and renal 
function, renal hypertension must be aggressively treated. Target blood pressure 
for patients with renal hypertension should be at low normal values: < 75 
percentile for patients without proteinuria and <50 percentile for patients with 
proteinuria. Renin-angiotensin system antagonists are considered the first 
choice pharmacological option in hypertensive CKD 2-4 patients while the 
management of volume overload is the most important in dialysis patients. 
Successful transplantation can eliminate or significantly improve uremia-related 
cardiovascular risk factors and increase predicted life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2298/sarh1402113p
PMID: 24684043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. J Matern Fetal Neonatal Med. 2015 Jan;28(2):121-30. doi: 
10.3109/14767058.2014.909803. Epub 2014 Jul 24.

Resuscitation of neonates at 23 weeks' gestational age: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Partridge JC(1), Robertson KR, Rogers EE, Landman GO, Allen AJ, Caughey AB.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Center for Clinical and Policy Perinatal Research, 
University of California San Francisco , San Francisco, CA , USA .

OBJECTIVE: Resuscitation of infants at 23 weeks' gestation remains 
controversial; clinical practices vary. We sought to investigate the cost 
effectiveness of resuscitation of infants born 23 0/7-23 6/7 weeks' gestation.
DESIGN: Decision-analytic modeling comparing universal and selective 
resuscitation to non-resuscitation for 5176 live births at 23 weeks in a 
theoretic U.S. cohort. Estimates of death (77%) and disability (64-86%) were 
taken from the literature. Maternal and combined maternal-neonatal utilities 
were applied to discounted life expectancy to generate QALYs. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated, discounting costs and QALYs. Main 
outcomes included number of survivors, their outcome status and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios for the three strategies. A cost-effectiveness 
threshold of $100 000/QALY was utilized.
RESULTS: Universal resuscitation would save 1059 infants: 138 severely disabled, 
413 moderately impaired and 508 without significant sequelae. Selective 
resuscitation would save 717 infants: 93 severely disabled, 279 moderately 
impaired and 343 without significant sequelae. For mothers, non-resuscitation is 
less expensive ($19.9 million) and more effective (127 844 mQALYs) than 
universal resuscitation ($1.2 billion; 126 574 mQALYs) or selective 
resuscitation ($845 million; 125 966 mQALYs). For neonates, both universal and 
selective resuscitation were cost-effective, resulting in 22 256 and 15 134 
nQALYS, respectively, versus 247 nQALYs for non-resuscitation. In sensitivity 
analyses, universal resuscitation was cost-effective from a maternal perspective 
only at utilities for neonatal death <0.42. When analyzed from a 
maternal-neonatal perspective, universal resuscitation was cost-effective when 
the probability of neonatal death was <0.95.
CONCLUSIONS: Over wide ranges of probabilities for survival and disability, 
universal and selective resuscitation strategies were not cost-effective from a 
maternal perspective. Both strategies were cost-effective from a 
maternal-neonatal perspective. This study offers a metric for counseling and 
decision-making for extreme prematurity. Our results could support a more 
permissive response to parental requests for aggressive intervention at 23 
weeks' gestation.

DOI: 10.3109/14767058.2014.909803
PMID: 24684658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Breast. 2014 Jun;23(3):286-90. doi: 10.1016/j.breast.2014.02.012. Epub 2014
Mar  27.

Skeletal metastases in 301 breast cancer patients: patient survival and 
complications after surgery.

Weiss RJ(1), Tullberg E(2), Forsberg JA(2), Bauer HC(2), Wedin R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Section of Orthopaedics and 
Sports Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, Karolinska Institutet, S-171 76 
Stockholm, Sweden. Electronic address: rudiger.weiss@karolinska.se.
(2)Department of Molecular Medicine and Surgery, Section of Orthopaedics and 
Sports Medicine, Karolinska University Hospital, Karolinska Institutet, S-171 76 
Stockholm, Sweden.

The aim was to identify prognostic variables associated with survival in 301 
breast cancer patients after surgical treatment of skeletal metastases. The 
study period was 1986-2012. The median age at surgery was 61 
(interquartile-range [IQR] 52-70) years. The cumulative 1-, 2-, and 5-year 
survival after surgery was 45% (95% CI 39-51), 27% (22-32), and 8% (5-12), 
respectively. The median follow-up time was 1 (IQR 0.2-2) year. Age over 60 
years (Hazard ratio [HR] 1.9) and hemoglobin levels <110 g/L (HR 2) increased 
the risk of death after surgery. Patients with impending fractures (HR 0.4) had 
a lower death rate. The overall neurological function in patients with spinal 
metastases improved after surgery (p < 0.001). The complication rate was 25%, 
including 14% re-operations. Survival data and analysis of complications of this 
large cohort of surgically treated breast cancer patients help to set 
appropriate expectations for the patients, families, and medical staff.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.breast.2014.02.012
PMID: 24684891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. Orthop Clin North Am. 2014 Apr;45(2):257-69. doi: 10.1016/j.ocl.2013.12.008.
 Epub 2014 Feb 1.

The principles and applications of fresh frozen allografts to bone and joint 
reconstruction.

Aponte-Tinao LA(1), Ritacco LE(2), Albergo JI(3), Ayerza MA(3), Muscolo DL(3), 
Farfalli GL(3).

Author information:
(1)Orthopaedic Oncology Service, Department of Orthopedics, Italian Hospital of 
Buenos Aires, Potosí 4247 (1199), Buenos Aires, Argentina. Electronic address: 
luis.aponte@hospitalitaliano.org.ar.
(2)Department of Orthopedics, Italian Hospital of Buenos Aires, Potosí 4247 
(1199), Buenos Aires, Argentina; Virtual Planning and Navigation Unit, 
Department of Health Informatics, Italian Hospital of Buenos Aires, Buenos 
Aires, Argentina.
(3)Orthopaedic Oncology Service, Department of Orthopedics, Italian Hospital of 
Buenos Aires, Potosí 4247 (1199), Buenos Aires, Argentina.

Fresh frozen allograft reconstruction has been used for a long time in massive 
bone loss in orthopedic surgery. Allografts have the advantage of being biologic 
reconstructions, which gives them durability. Despite a greater number of 
complications in the short term, after 5 years these stabilize with high rates 
of survival after 10 years. The rate of early complications and the need for 
careful management in the first years has led the orthopedic surgeon to the use 
of other options. However, the potential durability of this reconstruction makes 
this one of the best options for younger patients with high life expectancy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ocl.2013.12.008
PMID: 24684919 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


785. Transfus Med Rev. 2014 Apr;28(2):72-83. doi: 10.1016/j.tmrv.2014.02.002.
Epub  2014 Feb 25.

Proteome changes in platelets after pathogen inactivation--an interlaboratory 
consensus.

Prudent M(1), D'Alessandro A(2), Cazenave JP(3), Devine DV(4), Gachet C(3), 
Greinacher A(5), Lion N(6), Schubert P(4), Steil L(7), Thiele T(5), Tissot 
JD(6), Völker U(7), Zolla L(2).

Author information:
(1)Service Régional Vaudois de Transfusion Sanguine, Unité de Recherche et 
Développement, Lausanne, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
michel.prudent@mavietonsang.ch.
(2)Department of Ecological and Biological Sciences, Tuscia University, Largo 
dell'Università, Viterbo, Italy.
(3)UMR_S949 INSERM, Université de Strasbourg, Etablissement Français du 
Sang-Alsace, Strasbourg, France.
(4)Centre for Innovation, Canadian Blood Services and Department of Pathology 
and Laboratory Medicine, Centre for Blood Research, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada.
(5)Institut für Immunologie und Transfusionsmedizin, Universitätsmedizin 
Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.
(6)Service Régional Vaudois de Transfusion Sanguine, Unité de Recherche et 
Développement, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(7)Interfakultäres Institut für Genetik und Funktionelle Genomforschung, 
Universitätsmedizin Greifswald, Greifswald, Germany.

Pathogen inactivation (PI) of platelet concentrates (PCs) reduces the 
proliferation/replication of a large range of bacteria, viruses, and parasites 
as well as residual leucocytes. Pathogen-inactivated PCs were evaluated in 
various clinical trials showing their efficacy and safety. Today, there is some 
debate over the hemostatic activity of treated PCs as the overall survival of PI 
platelets seems to be somewhat reduced, and in vitro measurements have 
identified some alterations in platelet function. Although the specific lesions 
resulting from PI of PCs are still not fully understood, proteomic studies have 
revealed potential damages at the protein level. This review merges the key 
findings of the proteomic analyses of PCs treated by the Mirasol Pathogen 
Reduction Technology, the Intercept Blood System, and the Theraflex UV-C system, 
respectively, and discusses the potential impact on the biological functions of 
platelets. The complementarities of the applied proteomic approaches allow the 
coverage of a wide range of proteins and provide a comprehensive overview of 
PI-mediated protein damage. It emerges that there is a relatively weak impact of 
PI on the overall proteome of platelets. However, some data show that the 
different PI treatments lead to an acceleration of platelet storage lesions, 
which is in agreement with the current model of platelet storage lesion in 
pathogen-inactivated PCs. Overall, the impact of the PI treatment on the 
proteome appears to be different among the PI systems. Mirasol impacts adhesion 
and platelet shape change, whereas Intercept seems to impact proteins of 
intracellular platelet activation pathways. Theraflex influences platelet shape 
change and aggregation, but the data reported to date are limited. This 
information provides the basis to understand the impact of different PI on the 
molecular mechanisms of platelet function. Moreover, these data may serve as 
basis for future developments of PI technologies for PCs. Further studies should 
address the impact of both the PI and the storage duration on platelets in PCs 
because PI may enable the extension of the shelf life of PCs by reducing the 
bacterial contamination risk.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tmrv.2014.02.002
PMID: 24685438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


786. Eur J Prev Cardiol. 2015 May;22(5):622-8. doi: 10.1177/2047487314527852.
Epub  2014 Mar 31.

Evaluation of oral anticoagulation therapy: rationale and design of the 
thrombEVAL study programme.

Prochaska JH(1), Coldewey M(1), Göbel S(2), Keller K(1), Hendelmeier M(3), 
Konstantinides S(3), Münzel T(4), Wild PS(5); thrombEVAL Study Group.

Collaborators: Bickel C, Kowitz C, Schmidt-Borko KM, Elsner M, Hampel C, Brako 
M, Nietsch M, Münchbach M, Schwacke H, Meier-Willersen H, Weis-Reinecke C, 
Heckmann J, Keck M, Schmidt W, Efferenn C, Kratz T, Hardt R, Wiechelt J, Jung M, 
Remplewski K, Dippold W, Mertens D, Coldewey M, Gobel S, Hendelmeier M, Keller 
K, Munzel T, Prochaska J, Wild PS, Hauptmann KE, Lauterbach M, Ulrich E, Elsner 
S, Küpper J, Inselmann G, Raedle J, Baldzhiev V, Zotz R, Hügl B, Stefan V, von 
Korn H, Schürmeyer TH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Thrombosis and Haemostasis, University Medical Centre Mainz, 
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany Department of Medicine 2, 
University Medical Centre Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany.
(2)Department of Medicine 2, University Medical Centre Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg 
University Mainz, Germany German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), 
University Medical Centre Mainz, Germany.
(3)Centre for Thrombosis and Haemostasis, University Medical Centre Mainz, 
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany.
(4)Centre for Thrombosis and Haemostasis, University Medical Centre Mainz, 
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany Department of Medicine 2, 
University Medical Centre Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany 
German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), University Medical Centre 
Mainz, Germany.
(5)Centre for Thrombosis and Haemostasis, University Medical Centre Mainz, 
Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany Department of Medicine 2, 
University Medical Centre Mainz, Johannes Gutenberg University Mainz, Germany 
German Centre for Cardiovascular Research (DZHK), University Medical Centre 
Mainz, Germany philipp.wild@unimedizin-mainz.de.

BACKGROUND: Since decades, oral anticoagulation (OAC) with vitamin K antagonists 
(VKA) is an established therapy for both prevention and treatment of 
thromboembolism in daily clinical routine. Increasing life expectancy, 
demographic changes, and novel oral anticoagulants have led to an increasing 
complexity of medical therapy. However, data on quality and management of VKA 
therapy with phenprocoumon in current medical care are limited. Our aim is to 
investigate the quality of OAC with VKA in current health care and to evaluate 
the potential for improvements.
STUDY DESIGN: The investigator-initiated thrombEVAL study programme comprises 
two cohorts of patients treated with vitamin K antagonists for oral 
anticoagulation therapy in real-life settings: a multicentre cohort of patients 
in regular medical care and a multilocal, single-centre cohort of patients in a 
telemedicine-based coagulation service. The study programme is expected to enrol 
a total number of approximately 2000 to 2500 patients. Both cohorts will build 
on a detailed clinical assessment of participants and anticoagulation therapy at 
study enrolment. Subsequently active and passive follow-up investigations are 
carried out to document and validate complications of the treatment. The primary 
short-term outcome is the distribution of time in therapeutic range; the primary 
long-term outcome comprises the composite of stroke, systemic embolism, 
myocardial infarction, major and clinically relevant bleeding, and death.
CONCLUSIONS: The thrombEVAL project will provide a large prospective 
observational cohort of patients predominantly treated with phenprocoumon. It 
will evaluate the quality of oral anticoagulation in regular medical care and a 
telemedicine-based coagulation service.

© The European Society of Cardiology 2014 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/2047487314527852
PMID: 24685605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


787. J Alzheimers Dis. 2014;41(3):819-33. doi: 10.3233/JAD-140309.

Brain region-specific monoaminergic correlates of neuropsychiatric symptoms in 
Alzheimer's disease.

Vermeiren Y(1), Van Dam D(1), Aerts T(1), Engelborghs S(2), De Deyn PP(3).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Neurochemistry and Behavior, Institute Born-Bunge, University 
of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(2)Laboratory of Neurochemistry and Behavior, Institute Born-Bunge, University 
of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium Department of Neurology and Memory Clinic, Hospital 
Network Antwerp (ZNA) Middelheim and Hoge Beuken, Antwerp, Belgium.
(3)Laboratory of Neurochemistry and Behavior, Institute Born-Bunge, University 
of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium Department of Neurology and Memory Clinic, Hospital 
Network Antwerp (ZNA) Middelheim and Hoge Beuken, Antwerp, Belgium University of 
Groningen, University Medical Center Groningen (UMCG), Department of Neurology 
and Alzheimer Research Center, Groningen, The Netherlands Biobank, Institute 
Born-Bunge, University of Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.

Neuropsychiatric symptoms (NPS) in Alzheimer's disease (AD) are present during 
the disease course of nearly all AD patients and consist of psychosis, 
agitation/aggression, and depression, among others. Given their detrimental 
consequences regarding life expectancy, cognition, and socio-economic costs, it 
is essential to elucidate their neurochemical etiology to facilitate the 
development of novel and effective pharmacotherapeutics. This study attempted to 
identify brain region-specific monoaminergic correlates of NPS by measuring the 
levels of eight monoamines and metabolites in nine relevant postmortem brain 
regions of 40 behaviorally characterized AD patients, i.e., dopamine (DA), 
serotonin (5-HT), (nor)epinephrine and their respective metabolites 
3,4-dihydroxyphenylacetic acid (DOPAC) and homovanillic acid, 
5-hydroxy-3-indoleacetic acid (5-HIAA), and 3-methoxy-4-hydroxyphenylglycol 
(MHPG), using RP-HPLC-ECD. Likewise, Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score 
correlates of monoaminergic neurotransmitter alterations were calculated. As a 
result, MMSE scores, used as a measure of dementia severity, correlated 
positively with hippocampal 5-HIAA levels as well as with 5-HT levels of the 
superior temporal gyrus and cerebellar cortex. Furthermore, hippocampal 5-HIAA 
levels inversely correlated with agitation scores, whereas thalamic MHPG levels 
comparably did with the presence of hallucinations. Finally, in the cerebellar 
cortex, DOPAC/DA ratios, indicative of DA turnover, correlated with physically 
agitated behavior while MHPG levels correlated with affective disturbances. 
These findings support the assumption that specific NPS features in AD might be 
(in)directly related to brain region-specific monoaminergic neurotransmitter 
alterations. Additionally, the effect of AD pathology on neurochemical 
alterations in the cerebellum requires further examination due to its important 
but underestimated role in the neurochemical pathophysiology of NPS in AD.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-140309
PMID: 24685637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


788. Thromb Haemost. 2014 Jun;111(6):1167-76. doi: 10.1160/TH14-03-0231. Epub
2014  Apr 1.

Feasibility and cost-effectiveness of stroke prevention through community 
screening for atrial fibrillation using iPhone ECG in pharmacies. The SEARCH-AF 
study.

Lowres N, Neubeck L, Salkeld G, Krass I, McLachlan AJ, Redfern J, Bennett AA, 
Briffa T, Bauman A, Martinez C, Wallenhorst C, Lau JK, Brieger DB, Sy RW, 
Freedman SB(1).

Author information:
(1)S. Ben Freedman, Cardiology Department, Level 3, Concord Repatriation General 
Hospital, Hospital Road, Concord NSW 2137, Australia, Tel.: +612 9767 7358, Fax: 
+612 9767 6780, E-mail: ben.freedman@sydney.edu.au.

Atrial fibrillation (AF) causes a third of all strokes, but often goes 
undetected before stroke. Identification of unknown AF in the community and 
subsequent anti-thrombotic treatment could reduce stroke burden. We investigated 
community screening for unknown AF using an iPhone electrocardiogram (iECG) in 
pharmacies, and determined the cost-effectiveness of this strategy.Pharmacists 
performedpulse palpation and iECG recordings, with cardiologist iECG 
over-reading. General practitioner review/12-lead ECG was facilitated for 
suspected new AF. An automated AF algorithm was retrospectively applied to 
collected iECGs. Cost-effectiveness analysis incorporated costs of iECG 
screening, and treatment/outcome data from a United Kingdom cohort of 5,555 
patients with incidentally detected asymptomatic AF. A total of 1,000 pharmacy 
customers aged ≥65 years (mean 76 ± 7 years; 44% male) were screened. Newly 
identified AF was found in 1.5% (95% CI, 0.8-2.5%); mean age 79 ± 6 years; all 
had CHA2DS2-VASc score ≥2. AF prevalence was 6.7% (67/1,000). The automated iECG 
algorithm showed 98.5% (CI, 92-100%) sensitivity for AF detection and 91.4% (CI, 
89-93%) specificity. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of extending iECG 
screening into the community, based on 55% warfarin prescription adherence, 
would be $AUD5,988 (€3,142; $USD4,066) per Quality Adjusted Life Year gained and 
$AUD30,481 (€15,993; $USD20,695) for preventing one stroke. Sensitivity analysis 
indicated cost-effectiveness improved with increased treatment 
adherence.Screening with iECG in pharmacies with an automated algorithm is both 
feasible and cost-effective. The high and largely preventable 
stroke/thromboembolism risk of those with newly identified AF highlights the 
likely benefits of community AF screening. Guideline recommendation of community 
iECG AF screening should be considered.

DOI: 10.1160/TH14-03-0231
PMID: 24687081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Osteoporos Int. 2014 Jun;25(6):1717-26. doi: 10.1007/s00198-014-2677-6. Epub
 2014 Apr 1.

Effects of PTH(1-84) therapy on muscle function and quality of life in 
hypoparathyroidism: results from a randomized controlled trial.

Sikjaer T(1), Rolighed L, Hess A, Fuglsang-Frederiksen A, Mosekilde L, Rejnmark 
L.

Author information:
(1)Osteoporosis Clinic, Department of Internal Medicine and Endocrinology, MEA, 
Aarhus University Hospital, Tage-Hansensgade 2, 8000, Aarhus, Denmark, 
Tanja.sikjaer@gmail.com.

The effects of treatment with 100 μg parathyroid hormone (PTH) (1-84) or an 
identical placebo on muscle function and quality of life (QoL) was studied in 
hypoparathyroid patients. At baseline, we found reduced QoL but no myopathy in 
the patients. Six months of treatment did not improve QoL, and muscle strength 
decreased slightly.
INTRODUCTION: A reduced quality of life (QoL) and myopathy that may be due to 
the absence of PTH have been reported in patients with hypoparathyroidism 
(hypoPT).
METHODS: Sixty-two patients with chronic hypoPT were randomized to 6 months of 
treatment with either PTH(1-84) 100 μg/d s.c. or placebo, given as add-on 
therapy to conventional treatment. Muscle function and postural stability were 
investigated using a dynamometer chair, a stadiometer platform, the repeated 
chair stands test, the timed up and go test, and electromyography. QoL was 
assessed using the 36-item Short Form Health Survey and the WHO-5 Well-Being 
Index.
RESULTS: The mean age of the patients was 52 ± 11 years, and 85 % were females. 
At baseline, QoL was significantly reduced in comparison with norm-based scores. 
Compared with placebo, PTH did not improve QoL or muscle function. Rather, max 
force production decreased significantly by 30 % at elbow flexion in the PTH 
group compared with the placebo group. Moreover, there was a nonsignificant 
trend for muscle strength to decrease in the upper extremities and on knee 
extension in response to PTH. Treatment did not affect postural stability. 
Electromyography showed a slight decrease in the duration of motor unit 
potentials in the PTH group, indicating a tendency toward myopathy, which, 
however was not symptomatic.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, our data do not support an immediate beneficial effect of 
PTH replacement therapy on muscle function or QoL. A high frequency of 
hypercalcemia among our patients may have compromised the potential beneficial 
effects of reversing the state of PTH insufficiency.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-014-2677-6
PMID: 24687385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. BMJ. 2014 Mar 31;348:g2471. doi: 10.1136/bmj.g2471.

Women spend more of their life with a disability than men.

Wise J(1).

Author information:
(1)London.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.g2471
PMID: 24687425 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. J Neurol. 2014 Jul;261(7):1269-88. doi: 10.1007/s00415-014-7316-9. Epub 2014
Apr  1.

Patterns of decline in upper limb function of boys and men with DMD: an 
international survey.

Janssen MM(1), Bergsma A, Geurts AC, de Groot IJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation, Radboud University Medical Center, Donders 
Centre for Neuroscience, Reinier Postlaan 4, 6525 GC, Nijmegen, The Netherlands, 
mariska.janssen@radboudumc.nl.

Erratum in
    J Neurol. 2014 Jul;261(7):1289-90.

With increasing life expectancy, upper extremity (UE) function becomes more and 
more important in boys with Duchenne muscular dystrophy (DMD). Knowledge of UE 
function in these children is, however, limited. The aim of this study was to 
gain insight into the changing patterns of UE function during the course of DMD. 
A Web-based questionnaire on UE function, covering all domains of the 
International Classification of Functioning Disability and Health, was 
distributed worldwide. Primary domains of the questionnaire were: participant 
characteristics, UE pain and stiffness, UE activities, and social participation. 
Data were described per disease stage and analyzed using descriptive analysis. A 
total of 213 boys/men with DMD (1-35 years) were included in this study. UE 
pain, stiffness, and activity limitations increased with disease stage. UE 
activity limitations already occurred in the early ambulatory stage. Compared to 
the healthy population, social participation was restricted in DMD patients and 
about 70% of the respondents experienced UE limitations when performing social 
activities. Despite the existence of UE impairments, only 9% of the respondents 
used supportive aids. Functional capacities and activities of the UE are limited 
already in the early ambulatory stage of patients with DMD affecting their 
social participation. Therefore, clinicians should pay attention to UE 
limitations before DMD patients lose their capacity to walk. Effective and 
adequate aids as well as attention for pain and stiffness in the therapeutic 
management could help to reduce UE activity limitations and related restrictions 
in social participation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-014-7316-9
PMID: 24687893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. Front Plant Sci. 2014 Mar 20;5:93. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2014.00093. eCollection
 2014.

Ring the BELL and tie the KNOX: roles for TALEs in gynoecium development.

Arnaud N(1), Pautot V(1).

Author information:
(1)UMR 1318 INRA-AgroParisTech, INRA Centre de Versailles-Grignon, Institut 
Jean-Pierre Bourgin Versailles, France.

Carpels are leaf-like structures that bear ovules, and thus play a crucial role 
in the plant life cycle. In angiosperms, carpels are the last organs produced by 
the floral meristem and they differentiate a specialized meristematic tissue 
from which ovules develop. Members of the three-amino-acid-loop-extension (TALE) 
class of homeoproteins constitute major regulators of meristematic activity. 
This family contains KNOTTED-like (KNOX) and BEL1-like (BLH or BELL) homeodomain 
proteins, which function as heterodimers. KNOX proteins can have different BELL 
partners, leading to multiple combinations with distinct activities, and thus 
regulate many aspects of plant morphogenesis, including gynoecium development. 
TALE proteins act primarily through direct regulation of hormonal pathways and 
key transcriptional regulators. This review focuses on the contribution of TALE 
proteins to gynoecium development and connects TALE transcription factors to 
carpel gene regulatory networks.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2014.00093
PMCID: PMC3960571
PMID: 24688486


793. Afr J Reprod Health. 2013 Dec;17(4 Spec No):161-70.

Sexual dysfunction among HIV patients: three case reports and review of 
literature.

Lema VM.

Global efforts in addressing the HIV/AIDS epidemic have focused on preventing 
new infections, reduction of viral loads through treatment and care and support 
for the patients. Hardly any attention has been given to their quality of life 
in particular sexual health and functioning. There is a growing body of 
literature indicating high prevalence of sexual problems amongst HIV-infected 
individuals, whose mechanisms remain unclear. This may affect individuals' 
quality of life, interpersonal relationships and HIV treatment. The sub-Saharan 
Africa (SSA) region is the epicentre of the HIV epidemic, majority of the 
patients being young (< 30 years old) and in long-term heterosexual 
relationships. With increased life expectancy due to expanded access to HAART, 
the prevalence and potential impact of sexual dysfunction are certain to be 
significant. There is urgent need for appropriate research on sexual experiences 
and functioning amongst HIV patients in SSA and appropriate interventions to 
address them. Current efforts to link HIV/AIDS and sexual and reproductive 
health and rights (SRHR) and proposals to make SRH services integrated and 
comprehensive provide are a good starting point. However SRHR policies, 
strategic plans and programmes should be reviewed to ensure inclusion of sexual 
health.

PMID: 24689328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Aging Cell. 2014 Jun;13(3):497-506. doi: 10.1111/acel.12201. Epub 2014 Feb
12.

The contribution of visceral fat to improved insulin signaling in Ames dwarf 
mice.

Menon V(1), Zhi X, Hossain T, Bartke A, Spong A, Gesing A, Masternak MM.

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine, Burnett School of Biomedical Sciences, University of 
Central Florida, Orlando, FL, 32827, USA.

Ames dwarf (Prop1(df), df/df) mice are characterized by growth hormone (GH), 
prolactin, and thyrotropin deficiency, remarkable extension of longevity and 
increased insulin sensitivity with low levels of fasting insulin and glucose. 
Plasma levels of anti-inflammatory adiponectin are increased in df/df mice, 
while pro-inflammatory IL-6 is decreased in plasma and epididymal fat. This 
represents an important shift in the balance between pro- and anti-inflammatory 
adipokines in adipose tissue, which was not exposed to GH signals during 
development or adult life. To determine the role of adipose tissue in the 
control of insulin signaling in these long-living mutants, we examined the 
effects of surgical removal of visceral (epididymal and perinephric) adipose 
tissue. Comparison of the results obtained in df/df mice and their normal (N) 
siblings indicated different effects of visceral fat removal (VFR) on insulin 
sensitivity and glucose tolerance. The analysis of the expression of genes 
related to insulin signaling indicated that VFR improved insulin action in 
skeletal muscle in N mice. Interestingly, this surgical intervention did not 
improve insulin signaling in df/df mice skeletal muscle but caused suppression 
of the signal in subcutaneous fat. We conclude that altered profile of 
adipokines secreted by visceral fat of Ames dwarf mice may act as a key 
contributor to increased insulin sensitivity and extended longevity of these 
animals.

© 2014 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12201
PMCID: PMC4032618
PMID: 24690289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Intern Med J. 2014 Jun;44(6):546-53. doi: 10.1111/imj.12440.

Disabling disease codes predict worse outcomes for acute medical admissions.

Chotirmall SH(1), Picardo S, Lyons J, D'Alton M, O'Riordan D, Silke B.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Saint James's Hospital, Dublin, Ireland.

BACKGROUND: Concurrent with an extension in longevity, a prodrome of ill-health 
('disability' identifiable by certain International Classification of Disease 
(ICD) 9/ICD10 codes) predates the acute emergency presentation. To date, no 
study has assessed the effect of such 'disability' on outcomes of emergency 
medical admissions.
AIM: To devise a new method of scoring the burden of 'disability' and assess its 
relevance to outcomes of acute hospital admissions.
METHODS: All emergency admissions (67 971 episodes in n = 37 828 patients) to St 
James' Hospital, Dublin, Ireland over an 11-year period (2002-2012) were 
studied, and 30-day in-hospital mortality and length of stay were assessed as 
objective end-points. Patients were classified according to a validated 
'disability' classification method and scored from 0 to 4+ (5 classes), 
dependent on number of ICD9/ICD10 'hits' in hospital episode codes.
RESULTS: A disabling score of zero was present in 10.6% of patients. Scores of 
1, 2, 3 and 4+ (classified by the number of organ systems involved) occurred 
with frequencies of 23.3%, 28.7%, 21.9% and 15.5% respectively. The 'disability' 
score was strongly driven by age. The 30-day mortality rates were 0.9% (no 
score), 2.6%, 4.1%, 6.3% and 10.9%. Surviving patients remained in hospital for 
medians of 1.8 (no score), 3.9, 6.1, 8.1 and 9.7 days respectively. High 
'disability' and illness severity predicted a particularly bad outcome.
CONCLUSION: Disability burden, irrespective of organ system at emergency medical 
admission, independently predicts worse outcomes and a longer in-hospital stay.

© 2014 The Authors; Internal Medicine Journal © 2014 Royal Australasian College 
of Physicians.

DOI: 10.1111/imj.12440
PMID: 24690304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Health Policy. 2014 Jun;116(2-3):281-8. doi:
10.1016/j.healthpol.2014.02.009.  Epub 2014 Feb 28.

Concerns for severity in priority setting in health care: a review of trade-off 
data in preference studies and implications for societal willingness to pay for 
a QALY.

Nord E(1), Johansen R(2).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, P.O. Box 4404, N-0403 Oslo, Norway. 
Electronic address: erik.nord@fhi.no.
(2)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, P.O. Box 4404, N-0403 Oslo, Norway.

OBJECTIVE: In a wide range of health care jurisdictions, to give priority to the 
severely ill over the less severely ill is important in decisions about resource 
allocation across patient groups. We summarise data on concerns for severity 
measured at a cardinal level in preference studies in various countries and show 
how the data may provide guidance for determining severity graded willingness to 
pay for a QALY.
METHODS: We review evidence in 15 articles published in peer reviewed journals 
in the time period 1978-2010, with reports from altogether 20 individual studies 
in 9 different countries. The studies all focus on the quality of life dimension 
of severity, i.e. utility losses on the 0-1 scale used in QALY-calculations. We 
report 116 individual observations of paired comparisons of utility improvements 
with different start levels. We argue that the strength of concerns observed on 
the quality of life dimension may be assumed to apply also to losses in length 
of life and thus to severity in terms of proportional shortfall of QALYs. By 
means of regression analyses we estimate a severity gradient in each study that 
suggests the span in societal willingness to pay for a QALY to people at high 
and low levels of severity respectively.
RESULTS: Concerns for severity show up quite strongly across countries, sample 
types and question framings, although the size of the severity gradient varies 
very much. Interested policy makers may hopefully find the central tendency in 
the results to be useful as an input to determining severity dependent 
willingness to pay for a QALY.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2014.02.009
PMID: 24690334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


797. BMJ. 2014 Apr 1;348:g2434. doi: 10.1136/bmj.g2434.

The health benefits of vegetables and fruit rise with consumption, finds study.

Wise J(1).

Author information:
(1)London.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.g2434
PMID: 24690999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2015 Mar;70(3):263-72. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glu040. Epub 2014 Apr 1.

Elevated ATF4 function in fibroblasts and liver of slow-aging mutant mice.

Li W(1), Miller RA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology and.
(2)Department of Pathology and Geriatrics Center, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor millerr@umich.edu.

Work in yeast has shown that longevity extension induced by nutrient 
deprivation, altered ribosomal function, or diminished target of rapamycin 
action requires the activity of GCN4. We hypothesized that increased activity of 
ATF4, the mammalian equivalent of yeast GCN4, might be characteristic of 
mutations that extend mouse life span. Fibroblasts from the skin of two such 
mutants (Snell dwarf and PAPP-A knockout) were found to have higher levels of 
ATF4 protein and expression of several ATF4 target genes in responses to amino 
acid withdrawal, cadmium, hydrogen peroxide, and tunicamycin. ATF4 pathways were 
also elevated in liver of both kinds of long-lived mutant mice. Thus, a 
connection between ATF4 pathways and longevity may have deep evolutionary roots, 
and further studies of ATF4 mechanisms may provide insights into the links 
between cellular stress resistance, protein translation control, and aging.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glu040
PMCID: PMC4351389
PMID: 24691093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Br J Cancer. 2014 Apr 15;110(8):2090-8. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2014.130. Epub 2014
Apr  1.

Biomarker-based prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma: validation and extension 
of the BALAD model.

Fox R(1), Berhane S(2), Teng M(3), Cox T(4), Tada T(5), Toyoda H(5), Kumada 
T(5), Kagebayashi C(6), Satomura S(6), Johnson PJ(7).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK Clinical Trials Unit, School of Cancer Sciences, 
University of Birmingham, Birmingham B15 2TT, UK.
(2)Department of Molecular and Clinical Cancer Medicine, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool L69 3GA, UK.
(3)Department of Oncology, Addenbrooke's Hospital, University of Cambridge, 
Cambridge CB2 0QQ, UK.
(4)Liverpool Cancer Research UK Centre, Liverpool Cancer Trials Unit, University 
of Liverpool, Liverpool L69 3GL, UK.
(5)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Ogaki Municipal Hospital, Gifu 
503-8052, Japan.
(6)Wako Life Sciences, Inc., Mountain View, CA 94043-1829, USA.
(7)1] Department of Molecular and Clinical Cancer Medicine, University of 
Liverpool, Liverpool L69 3GA, UK [2] The Clatterbridge Cancer Centre NHS 
Foundation Trust, Clatterbridge Road, Bebington, Wirral CH63 4JY, UK.

BACKGROUND: The Japanese 'BALAD' model offers the first objective, 
biomarker-based, tool for assessment of prognosis in hepatocellular carcinoma, 
but relies on dichotomisation of the constituent data, has not been externally 
validated, and cannot be applied to the individual patients.
METHODS: In this Japanese/UK collaboration, we replicated the original BALAD 
model on a UK cohort and then built a new model, BALAD-2, on the original raw 
Japanese data using variables in their continuous form. Regression analyses 
using flexible parametric models with fractional polynomials enabled fitting of 
appropriate baseline hazard functions and functional form of covariates. The 
resulting models were validated in the respective cohorts to measure the 
predictive performance.
RESULTS: The key prognostic features were confirmed to be Bilirubin and Albumin 
together with the serological cancer biomarkers, AFP-L3, AFP, and DCP. With 
appropriate recalibration, the model offered clinically relevant discrimination 
of prognosis in both the Japanese and UK data sets and accurately predicted 
patient-level survival.
CONCLUSIONS: The original BALAD model has been validated in an international 
setting. The refined BALAD-2 model permits estimation of patient-level survival 
in UK and Japanese cohorts.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2014.130
PMCID: PMC3992496
PMID: 24691419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. PLoS One. 2014 Apr 1;9(4):e90147. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090147.
eCollection  2014.

Attention to local health burden and the global disparity of health research.

Evans JA(1), Shim JM(2), Ioannidis JP(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Computation Institute and Center for Health and the 
Social Sciences, University of Chicago, Chicago, Illinois, United States of 
America.
(2)Department of Sociology, University of Seoul, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Departments of Medicine, Health Research and Policy, and Statistics, Stanford 
Prevention Research Center, Stanford University, Stanford, California, United 
States of America.

Most studies on global health inequality consider unequal health care and 
socio-economic conditions but neglect inequality in the production of health 
knowledge relevant to addressing disease burden. We demonstrate this inequality 
and identify likely causes. Using disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) for 111 
prominent medical conditions, assessed globally and nationally by the World 
Health Organization, we linked DALYs with MEDLINE articles for each condition to 
assess the influence of DALY-based global disease burden, compared to the global 
market for treatment, on the production of relevant MEDLINE articles, systematic 
reviews, clinical trials and research using animal models vs. humans. We then 
explored how DALYs, wealth, and the production of research within countries 
correlate with this global pattern. We show that global DALYs for each condition 
had a small, significant negative relationship with the production of each type 
of MEDLINE articles for that condition. Local processes of health research 
appear to be behind this. Clinical trials and animal studies but not systematic 
reviews produced within countries were strongly guided by local DALYs. More and 
less developed countries had very different disease profiles and rich countries 
publish much more than poor countries. Accordingly, conditions common to 
developed countries garnered more clinical research than those common to less 
developed countries. Many of the health needs in less developed countries do not 
attract attention among developed country researchers who produce the vast 
majority of global health knowledge--including clinical trials--in response to 
their own local needs. This raises concern about the amount of knowledge 
relevant to poor populations deficient in their own research infrastructure. We 
recommend measures to address this critical dimension of global health 
inequality.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0090147
PMCID: PMC3972174
PMID: 24691431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


801. J Clin Invest. 2014 Apr;124(4):1430-8. doi: 10.1172/JCI71029. Epub 2014 Apr
1.

Recent developments in the treatment of age-related macular degeneration.

Holz FG, Schmitz-Valckenberg S, Fleckenstein M.

Age-related macular degeneration (AMD) is a common cause of visual loss in the 
elderly, with increasing prevalence due to increasing life expectancy. While the 
introduction of anti-VEGF therapy has improved outcomes, there are still major 
unmet needs and gaps in the understanding of underlying biological processes. 
These include early, intermediate, and atrophic disease stages. Recent studies 
have assessed therapeutic approaches addressing various disease-associated 
pathways, including complement inhibitors. Drug-delivery aspects are also 
relevant, as many agents have to be administered repeatedly. Herein, relevant 
pathogenetic factors and underlying mechanisms as well as recent and potential 
therapeutic approaches are reviewed.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI71029
PMCID: PMC3973093
PMID: 24691477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. JAMA. 2014 Apr 2;311(13):1336-47. doi: 10.1001/jama.2014.2834.

Screening mammography in older women: a review.

Walter LC(1), Schonberg MA(2).

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco2San Francisco VA Medical Center, San 
Francisco, California.
(2)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts.

IMPORTANCE: Guidelines recommend individualizing screening mammography decisions 
for women aged 75 years and older. However, little pragmatic guidance is 
available to help counsel patients.
OBJECTIVE: To provide an evidence-based approach for individualizing 
decision-making about screening mammography in older women.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: We searched PubMed for English-language studies in 
peer-reviewed journals published from January 1, 1990, to February 1, 2014, to 
identify risk factors for late-life breast cancer in women aged 65 years and 
older and to quantify the benefits and harms of screening mammography for women 
aged 75 years and older.
FINDINGS: Age is the major risk factor for developing and dying from breast 
cancer. Breast cancer risk factors that reflect hormonal exposures in the 
distant past, such as age at first birth or age at menarche, are less predictive 
of late-life breast cancer than factors indicating recent hormonal exposures 
such as high bone mass or obesity. Randomized trials of the benefits of 
screening mammography did not include women older than 74 years. Thus it is not 
known if screening mammography benefits older women. Observational studies favor 
extending screening mammography to older women who have a life expectancy of 
more than 10 years. Modeling studies estimate 2 fewer breast cancer deaths/1000 
women who in their 70s continue biennial screening for 10 years instead of 
stopping screening at age 69. Potential harms of continued screening over 10 
