(3)University of California San Diego, United States.
(4)The World Bank and University of Otago, United States. Electronic address: 
bozler@worldbank.org.

An extensive multi-disciplinary literature examines the effects of learning 
one's HIV status on subsequent risky sexual behaviors. However, many of these 
studies rely on non-experimental designs; use self-reported outcome measures; or 
both. In this study, we investigate the effects of a randomly assigned home 
based HIV testing and counseling (HTC) intervention on risky sexual behaviors 
and schooling investments among school-age females in Malawi. We find no overall 
effects on HIV, Herpes Simplex Virus (HSV-2), or achievement test scores at 
follow-up. However, among the small group of individuals who tested positive for 
HIV, we find a large increase in the probability of HSV-2 infection, with this 
effect being stronger among those surprised by their test results. Similarly, 
those surprised by HIV-negative test results have significantly higher 
achievement test scores at follow-up, consistent with increased returns to 
investments in human capital.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2014.06.003
PMID: 24981505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


646. Clin Transl Oncol. 2015 Jan;17(1):24-33. doi: 10.1007/s12094-014-1191-9.
Epub  2014 Jul 1.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of pazopanib in second-line treatment of advanced 
soft tissue sarcoma in Spain.

Villa G(1), Hernández-Pastor LJ, Guix M, Lavernia J, Cuesta M.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics, GlaxoSmithKline, Madrid, Spain.

PURPOSE: To assess the efficiency of pazopanib compared with trabectedin in the 
treatment of adult patients with selective subtypes of advanced soft-tissue 
sarcoma (STS) after chemotherapy failure.
METHODS: The progression of STS was modeled using a partitioned survival 
analysis model. Survival curves for pazopanib and trabectedin were modeled using 
data from PALETTE phase III clinical trial and based on unadjusted indirect 
comparison. Effectiveness was measured in quality-adjusted life years (QALY). 
The Spanish National Health System perspective was considered over a 10-year 
time horizon, including direct health care costs (<euro>, 2014). A discount rate 
of 3% was applied to both costs and outcomes. The robustness of the results was 
evaluated using univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses (PSA).
RESULTS: Pazopanib was associated with better health outcomes than trabectedin 
(0.705 versus 0.686 QALY). Pazopanib also showed lower direct health care costs 
(<euro>21,861 versus <euro>45,338), mainly due to lower cost of pharmacological 
treatment (<euro>13,762 versus <euro>33,392), administration (<euro>57 versus 
<euro>2,955) and AE management (<euro>658 versus <euro>1,695) costs. PSA 
confirmed that pazopanib was a dominant option in 71% of the simulations 
performed.
CONCLUSIONS: In this analysis, and from a health economics perspective, 
pazopanib was the option of choice versus trabectedin in the treatment of adult 
patients with advanced soft-tissue sarcoma after chemotherapy failure.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-014-1191-9
PMID: 24981588 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


647. Aging Cell. 2014 Oct;13(5):773-9. doi: 10.1111/acel.12242. Epub 2014 Jul 1.

Cellular senescence and aging: the role of B-MYB.

Mowla SN(1), Lam EW, Jat PS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurodegenerative Disease and MRC Prion Unit, UCL Institute of 
Neurology, Queen Square, London, WC1N 3BG, UK.

Cellular senescence is a stable cell cycle arrest, caused by insults, such as: 
telomere erosion, oncogene activation, irradiation, DNA damage, oxidative 
stress, and viral infection. Extrinsic stimuli such as cell culture stress can 
also trigger this growth arrest. Senescence is thought to have evolved as an 
example of antagonistic pleiotropy, as it acts as a tumor suppressor mechanism 
during the reproductive age, but can promote organismal aging by disrupting 
tissue renewal, repair, and regeneration later in life. The mechanisms 
underlying the senescence growth arrest are broadly considered to involve 
p16(INK4A) -pRB and p53-p21(CIP1/WAF1/SDI1) tumor suppressor pathways; but it is 
not known what makes the senescence arrest stable and what the critical 
downstream targets are, as they are likely to be key to the establishment and 
maintenance of the senescent state. MYB-related protein B (B-MYB/MYBL2), a 
member of the myeloblastosis family of transcription factors, has recently 
emerged as a potential candidate for regulating entry into senescence. Here, we 
review the evidence which indicates that loss of B-MYB expression has an 
important role in causing senescence growth arrest. We discuss how B-MYB acts, 
as the gatekeeper, to coordinate transit through the cell cycle, in conjunction 
with the multivulval class B (MuvB) complex and FOXM1 transcription factors. We 
also evaluate the evidence connecting B-MYB to the mTOR nutrient signaling 
pathway and suggest that inhibition of this pathway leading to an extension of 
healthspan may involve activation of B-MYB.

© 2014 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12242
PMCID: PMC4331756
PMID: 24981831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


648. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jul 15;111(28):10101-6. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1404367111. Epub 2014 Jun 30.

Long and spatially variable Neolithic Demographic Transition in the North 
American Southwest.

Kohler TA(1), Reese KM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anthropology, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 
99164-4910;Santa Fe Institute, Santa Fe, NM 87501; andCrow Canyon Archaeological 
Center, Cortez, CO 81321 tako@wsu.edu.
(2)Department of Anthropology, Washington State University, Pullman, WA 
99164-4910;

In many places of the world, a Neolithic Demographic Transition (NDT) is visible 
as a several-hundred-year period of increased birth rates coupled with stable 
mortality rates, resulting in dramatic population growth that is eventually 
curtailed by increased mortality. Similar processes can be reconstructed in 
particular detail for the North American Southwest, revealing an anomalously 
long and spatially variable NDT. Irrigation-dependent societies experienced 
relatively low birth rates but were quick to achieve a high degree of 
sociopolitical complexity, whereas societies dependent on dry or rainfed farming 
experienced higher birth rates but less initial sociopolitical complexity. Low 
birth rates after A.D. 1200 mark the beginning of the decline of the Hohokam. 
Overall in the Southwest, birth rates increased slowly from 1100 B.C. to A.D. 
500, and remained at high levels with some fluctuation until decreasing rapidly 
beginning A.D. 1300. Life expectancy at 15 increased slowly from 900 B.C. to 
A.D. 700, and then increased rapidly for 200 y before fluctuating and then 
declining after A.D. 1400. Life expectancy at birth, on the other hand, 
generally declined from 1100 B.C. to A.D. 1100/1200, before rebounding. Farmers 
took two millennia (∼ 1100 B.C. to ∼ A.D. 1000) to reach the carrying capacity 
of the agricultural niche in the Southwest.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1404367111
PMCID: PMC4104847
PMID: 24982134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


649. Anticancer Res. 2014 Jul;34(7):3727-30.

Metastatic spinal cord compression from pancreatic cancer.

Rades D(1), Huttenlocher S(2), Schild SE(3), Bartscht T(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany 
Rades.Dirk@gmx.net.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, Germany.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Mayo Clinic, Scottsdale, AZ, U.S.A.
(4)Department of Medical Oncology and Hematology, University of Lübeck, Lübeck, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND/AIM: Pancreatic cancer is an extremely rare entity in patients with 
metastatic epidural spinal cord compression (MESCC). This study aimed to 
identify prognostic factors for functional outcome and survival following 
irradiation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Ten variables were investigated in 15 patients: age, 
gender, performance score, time from diagnosis of pancreatic cancer to MESCC, 
number of involved vertebrae, ambulatory status, bone metastases, organ 
metastases, time developing motor deficits, and the radiation schedule (1×8 Gy 
vs. fractionated radiotherapy schedules).
RESULTS: Better post-treatment motor function was significantly associated with 
absence of organ metastases (p=0.025). Better survival was also significantly 
associated with absence of organ metastases: 6-month survival rates were 100% 
and 9%, respectively (p=0.006). The radiation schedule had no significant impact 
on treatment outcomes.
CONCLUSION: Patients with organ metastases have a very limited life expectancy 
and are good candidates for irradiation with 1×8 Gy instead of fractionated 
schedules.

Copyright© 2014 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G. 
Delinassios), All rights reserved.

PMID: 24982394 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


650. J Gastrointest Oncol. 2014 Jun;5(3):178-89. doi: 
10.3978/j.issn.2078-6891.2014.037.

Radioembolization of hepatic tumors.

Kennedy A(1).

Author information:
(1)Radiation Oncology Research, Sarah Cannon Research Institute, 3322 West End 
Ave., Suite 800 Nashville, TN 37203, USA.

Unresectable primary and metastatic liver tumors are a leading cause of cancer 
mortality and morbidity. This remains a challenging and key task for every 
oncologist despite significant advances that have been made with selective 
targeted systemic agents and in technology advances with radiotherapy delivery. 
Radioembolization (RE) is a technique of permanently implanting microspheres 
containing Yttrium-90 ((90)Y), a beta-emitting isotope with a treatment range of 
2 mm, into hepatic tumors. This form of brachytherapy utilizes the unique dual 
vascular anatomy of the liver to preferentially deliver radioactive particles 
via the hepatic artery to tumor, sparing normal liver parenchyma. The main 
treatment inclusion criteria are patients with solid tumors, compensated liver 
functions, life expectancy of at least three months, and ECOG performance status 
0-2. Benefit of RE has been proven in patients that have low-to-moderate 
extrahepatic disease burden, prior liver radiotherapy, heavy prior chemotherapy 
and biologic agent exposure, and history of hepatic surgery or ablation. Most of 
the clinical evidence is reported in metastatic colorectal, and neuroendocrine 
tumors (NET), and primary hepatocellular cancer. A growing body of data supports 
the use of RE in hepatic metastatic breast cancer, intrahepatic 
cholangiocarinoma, and many other metastatic tumor types. Side effects are 
typically mild constitutional and GI issues limited to the first 7-14 days post 
treatment, with only 6% grade 3 toxicity reported in large series. Potentially 
serious or fatal radiation induced liver disease is extremely rare, reported in 
only 1% or fewer in major series of both metastatic and primary tumors treated 
with RE. Currently, high priority prospective clinical trials are testing RE 
combined with chemotherapy in first line therapy for colorectal hepatic 
metastases, and combined with sorafenib for hepatocellular carcinomas (HCCs). 
Fortunately, this beneficial and now widely available therapy is being 
increasingly incorporated into the standard therapy algorithms of 
multidisciplinary GI cancer teams worldwide. This form of radiotherapy differs 
significantly from daily external beam radiotherapy in many ways, particularly 
in dose rate, dosimetric coverage and duration of radiation delivery, side 
effects, and patient selection factors. A wealth of experience using RE in solid 
tumors exists and ongoing major prospective clinical trials will soon clarify 
the role of RE in the management of metastatic colorectal liver metastases.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2078-6891.2014.037
PMCID: PMC4074949
PMID: 24982766


651. For the Public’s Health: The Role of Measurement in Action and
Accountability.

Institute of Medicine (US) Committee on Public Health Strategies to Improve 
Health.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2011.

Despite having the costliest medical care delivery system in the world, 
Americans are not particularly healthy. Recent international comparisons show 
that life expectancy in the U.S. ranks 49th among all nations, and infant 
mortality rates are higher in the U.S. than in many far less affluent nations. 
While these statistics are alarming, the bigger problem is that we do not know 
how to reverse this trend. Our lack of knowledge is due in large part to 
significant inadequacies in the health system for gathering, analyzing, and 
communicating health information about the population. To inform the public 
health community and all other sectors that contribute to population health, For 
the Public's Health: The Role of Measurement in Action and Accountability 
reviews current approaches for measuring the health of individuals and 
communities and creates a roadmap for future development. This book, the first 
of three in a series, focuses on data and measurement-not as ends in themselves, 
but rather tools to inform the myriad programs, policies, and processes 
developed or undertaken by governmental public health agencies and their many 
partners in the health system. For the Public's Health seeks to reinstate the 
proper and evidence-based understanding of health as not merely the result of 
medical or clinical care but the result of the sum of what we do as a society to 
create the conditions in which people can be healthy. To achieve this goal, the 
book suggests changes in the processes, tools, and approaches used to gather 
information about health outcomes and their determinants. The book also 
recommends developing an integrated and coordinated system in which all 
parties-including governmental and private sector partners at all levels-have 
access to timely and meaningful data to help foster individual and community 
awareness and action.

Copyright 2011 by the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.17226/13005
PMID: 24983050


652. Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2014 Jul 1;190(1):19-24. doi: 
10.1164/rccm.201402-0384UP.

Update in lung transplantation 2013.

Todd JL(1), Christie JD, Palmer SM.

Author information:
(1)1 Division of Pulmonary, Allergy, and Critical Care Medicine, Department of 
Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina.

Research in pulmonary transplantation is actively evolving in quality and scope 
to meet the challenges of a growing population of lung allograft recipients. In 
2013, research groups leveraged large publicly available datasets in addition to 
multicenter research networks and single-center studies to make significant 
contributions to our knowledge and clinical care in the areas of donor use, 
clinical transplant outcomes, mechanisms of rejection, infectious complications, 
and chronic allograft dysfunction.

DOI: 10.1164/rccm.201402-0384UP
PMCID: PMC4226029
PMID: 24983218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


653. Br J Cancer. 2014 Aug 26;111(5):1014-20. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2014.364. Epub
2014  Jul 1.

Years of life lost as a measure of cancer burden on a national level.

Brustugun OT(1), Møller B(2), Helland A(1).

Author information:
(1)1] Department of Oncology, Oslo University Hospital-The Norwegian Radium 
Hospital, Oslo, Norway [2] Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, 
Oslo, Norway.
(2)Cancer Registry of Norway, Institute of Population-Based Cancer Research, 
Oslo, Norway.

BACKGROUND: The severity of cancers is often measured in number of deaths. 
However, number of years of life lost (YLL) may be a more appropriate indicator 
of impact on society. Here we have calculated the YLL of adult cancers in Norway 
for the year 2012, as well as for the previous 15-year period.
METHODS: Data on age composition, expected remaining years of life, total 
numbers of deaths and deaths due to cancer were retrieved from the National 
Census Agency Statistics Norway. YLL were calculated for both sexes aged 25-99 
years based on each individual's age at death, and the expected remaining years 
of life at that age.
RESULTS: Cancer deaths represented 25.8% of all adult deaths in 2012, with a 
lower fraction of females (28.7% in men and 23.1% in women), whereas cancer 
represented 35.2% of all YLL, with a higher fraction of females (32.8% in men 
and 37.8% in women). Females loose on average more life years to cancer than men 
(14.9 vs 12.7 years). Average YLL varied from 23.7 (cervical cancer) to 7.9 
(prostate cancer). Lung cancer caused almost as many YLL alone (22.1% of 
cancer-caused YLL) as colon, prostate and breast cancer combined (23.1%). From 
1997 to 2012, cancer-caused YLL as a fraction of all YLL increased from 32.5% to 
35.2%, but with major differences among diagnoses.
CONCLUSIONS: Cancer is a major and increasing cause of premature deaths, and YLL 
may be a more accurate measure than number of deaths. Public health efforts and 
research funding should be explicitly directed at preventing premature deaths.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2014.364
PMCID: PMC4150272
PMID: 24983370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


654. Immunol Cell Biol. 2014 Oct;92(9):791-8. doi: 10.1038/icb.2014.54. Epub 2014
Jul  1.

The human-specific invariant chain isoform Iip35 modulates Iip33 trafficking and 
function.

Sand KM(1), Landsverk OJ(1), Berg-Larsen A(1), Bakke O(1), Gregers TF(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biosciences and Centre for Immune Regulation, University of 
Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

The invariant chain (Ii) is a multifunctional protein, which has an essential 
role in the assembly and transport of major histocompatibility complex class II 
(MHC II) molecules. From a single gene, Ii is synthesized as four different 
isoforms: Iip33, Iip35, Iip41 and Iip43. Iip35 and Iip43 are specific to humans, 
and are formed due to an upstream alternative translation site, resulting in an 
N-terminal extension of 16 amino acids. This extension harbors a strong 
endoplasmic reticulum (ER) retention motif. Consequently, Iip35 or Iip43 
expressed alone are retained in the ER, whereas Iip33 and Iip41 rapidly traffic 
to the endosomal pathway. Endogenously expressed, the four isoforms form mixed 
heterotrimers in the ER; however, mainly due to the absence of the Iip35/p43 
isoforms in mice, little is known about how they influence general Ii function. 
In this study, we have co-expressed Iip33 and Iip35 in human cells with and 
without MHC II to gain a better understanding of how Iip35 isoform influences 
the cellular properties of Iip33. We find that Iip35 significantly affects the 
properties of Iip33. In the presence of Iip35, the transport of Iip33 out of the 
ER is delayed, its half-life is dramatically prolonged and its ability to induce 
enlarged endosomes and delayed endosomal maturation is abrogated.

DOI: 10.1038/icb.2014.54
PMID: 24983457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


655. AIDS Care. 2014;26(12):1568-75. doi: 10.1080/09540121.2014.923812. Epub 2014
Jul  1.

The effects of HIV/AIDS on economic growth and human capitals: a panel study 
evidence from Asian countries.

Roy S(1).

Author information:
(1)a Center for Equity and Health Systems (CEHS) , International Center for 
Diahorreal Diseases Research, Bangladesh (ICDDR, B) , Dhaka , Bangladesh.

Human immunodeficiency virus/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) 
affects economic growths by reducing the human capitals are among the most 
poorly understood aspect of the AIDS epidemic. This article analyzes the effects 
of the prevalence of HIV and full-blown AIDS on a country's human capitals and 
economic growths. Using a fixed effect model for panel data 1990-2010 from the 
Asia, I explored the dynamic relationships among HIV/AIDS, economic growths, and 
human capitals within countries over time. The econometric effects concerned 
that HIV/AIDS plays an important role in the field of economic growths and it is 
measured as a change in real gross domestic product (GDP) per capita and human 
capitals. The modeling results for the Asian countries indicates HIV/AIDS 
prevalence that has a hurtful effect on GDP per capita by reducing human 
capitals within countries over time.

DOI: 10.1080/09540121.2014.923812
PMID: 24983845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


656. Proc Nutr Soc. 2014 Nov;73(4):526-31. doi: 10.1017/S0029665114000640. Epub
2014  Jul 1.

Genomics of ageing in twins.

Mangino M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Twin Research and Genetic Epidemiology,King's College London,St 
Thomas' Hospital Campus, Lambeth Palace Rd, London SE1 7EH,UK.

Ageing is a complex multifactorial process, reflecting the progression of all 
degenerative pathways within an organism. Due to the increase of life 
expectancy, in recent years, there is a pressing need to identify early-life 
events and risk factors that determine health outcomes in later life. So far, 
genetic variation only explains ~20-25 % of the variability of human survival to 
age 80+. This clearly implies that other factors (environmental, epigenetic and 
lifestyle) contribute to lifespan and the rate of healthy ageing within an 
individual. Twin studies in the past two decades proved to be a very powerful 
tool to discriminate the genetic from the environmental component. The aim of 
this review is to describe the basic concepts of the twin study design and to 
report some of the latest studies in which high-throughput technologies (e.g. 
genome/epigenome-wide assay, next generation sequencing, MS metabolic profiling) 
combined with the classical twin design have been applied to the analysis of 
novel 'omics' to further understand the molecular mechanisms of human ageing.

DOI: 10.1017/S0029665114000640
PMID: 24984159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


657. Acta Med Croatica. 2013 Oct;67(4):319-23.

[Chronic hepatitis B treatment].

[Article in Croatian]

Morović M, Hrstić I.

Clinical practice guidelines for the management of chronic hepatitis B infection 
continue to evolve from year to year but the goal remains the same, i.e. 
long-term continued suppression of viral replication to prevent disease 
progression and development of cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma. Out of 
seven drugs approved for the treatment of chronic hepatitis B, current 
guidelines recommend entecavir and tenofovir from the nucleos(t)ide analogues 
and pegylated interferon alfa-2a for the selected group of patients as 
first-line monotherapies. Both groups showed good results in a number of 
clinical trials and are used according to the consensus criteria. The treatment 
of special populations with chronic HBV infection, i.e. those with HCV/HDV/HIV 
co-infections, immunocompromised patients, patients who have undergone 
transplantation, patients with solid tumor and cirrhosis, patients with chronic 
renal failure on dialysis, pregnant women and children, is more often required 
and more demanding than for usual chronic hepatitis B.

PMID: 24984331 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


658. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2012 Oct 10;61(6):1-51.

Deaths: preliminary data for 2011.

Hoyert DL, Xu J.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents preliminary U.S. data on deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, leading causes of death, and infant mortality for 2011 by 
selected characteristics such as age, sex, race, and Hispanic origin.
METHODS: Data in this report are based on death records comprising more than 98 
percent of the demographic and medical files for all deaths in the United States 
in 2011. The records are weighted to independent control counts for 2011. 
Comparisons are made with 2010 final data.
RESULTS: The age-adjusted death rate decreased from 747.0 deaths per 100,000 
population in 2010 to 740.6 deaths per 100,000 population in 2011. From 2010 to 
2011, age-adjusted death rates decreased significantly for 5 of the 15 leading 
causes of death: Diseases of heart, Malignant neoplasms, Cerebrovascular 
diseases, Alzheimer's disease, and Nephritis, nephrotic syndrome and nephrosis. 
The age-adjusted death rate increased for six leading causes of death: Chronic 
lower respiratory diseases, Diabetes mellitus, Influenza and pneumonia, Chronic 
liver disease and cirrhosis, Parkinson's disease, and Pneumonitis due to solids 
and liquids. Life expectancy remained the same in 2011 as it had been in 2010 at 
78.7 years.

PMID: 24984457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


659. Neonatal Netw. 2014 Jul-Aug;33(4):204-7. doi: 10.1891/0730-0832.33.4.204.

Discharge summary for medically complex infants transitioning to primary care.

Peacock JJ.

Improvements in the care of the premature infant and advancements in technology 
are increasing life expectancy of infants with medical conditions once 
considered lethal; these infants are at risk of becoming a medically complex 
infant. Complex infants have a significant existing problem list, are on several 
medications, and receive medical care by several specialists. Deficits in 
communication and information transfer at the time of discharge remain 
problematic for this population. A questionnaire was developed for primary care 
providers (PCPs) to explore the effectiveness of the current discharge summary 
because it is related to effective communication when assuming the care of a new 
patient with medical complexity. PCPs assuming the care of these infants agree 
that an evidence-based tool, in the form of a specialized summary for this 
population, would be of value.

DOI: 10.1891/0730-0832.33.4.204
PMID: 24985113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


660. Rev Sci Instrum. 2014 Jun;85(6):063304. doi: 10.1063/1.4884649.

Capacitive energy storage and recovery for synchrotron magnets.

Koseki K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Particle and Nuclear Studies, High Energy Accelerator Research 
Organization, 1-1 Oho, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 305-0801, Japan.

Feasibility studies on capacitive energy storage and recovery in the main-ring 
synchrotron of the Japan Proton Accelerator Research Complex were conducted by 
circuit simulation. The estimated load fluctuation was 96 MVA in total for 
dipole magnets, which is likely to induce a serious disturbance in the main 
grid. It was found that the energy stored in the magnets after the excitation 
period can be recovered to the storage capacitor by controlling the voltage 
across the energy-storage capacitor using a pulse-width-modulation converter and 
reused in the next operational cycle. It was also found that the power 
fluctuation in the main grid can be reduced to 12 MVA. An experimental 
evaluation of an aluminum metalized film capacitor revealed that capacitance 
loss was induced by a fluctuating voltage applied to the storage capacitor when 
applying the proposed method. The capacitance loss was induced by corona 
discharge around the edges of segmented electrodes of a self-healing capacitor. 
The use of aluminum-zinc alloy was evaluated as a countermeasure to mitigate the 
effect induced by the corona discharge. For a zinc content of 8%, which was 
optimized experimentally, a capacitor with a sufficient life time expectancy of 
20 years and a working potential gradient of 250 V/μm was developed.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4884649
PMID: 24985811661. Vnitr Lek. 2014 Apr;60(4):275-81.

[30 years heart transplantation program in Institute for Clinical and 
Experimental Medicine in Prague].

[Article in Czech]

Hošková L, Málek I, Melenovský V, Podzimková M, Hegarová M, Dorazilová Z, 
Kautzner J, Netuka I, Pirk J.

Heart transplantation has become in recent decades an established method for the 
treatment of advanced heart failure. Precisely, it was in January 2014 when 30 
years have passed since the start of clinical heart transplantation program at 
the Institute for Clinical and Experimental Medicine. 936 heart transplants were 
performed by the end of 2013. The transplant program has reached considerable 
development since its beginnings. The knowledge of whole issue has deepened, 
indication criteria have been extended, new immunosuppressives are available and 
many of them are still in research. Life expectancy of patients has been 
prolonged and quality of life has improved. Nevertheless, the care of transplant 
patient is very complicated task for medical professionals and brings a lot of 
problems to solve.

PMID: 24985984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


662. Vnitr Lek. 2014 Apr;60(4):316-21.

[The role of learning curve on the results of aortic valve implantation for 
severe aortic stenosis].

[Article in Czech]

Kala P, Němec P, Malík P, Ondrášek J, Třetina M, Pokorný P, Jarkovský J, Bláha 
M.

INTRODUCTION: Patients with serious aortic stenoses treated by conservative 
therapy have significantly worse life expectancy. Besides the surgical aortic 
valve replacement (AVR) as the gold standard of therapy, the transcatheter 
aortic valve implantation (TAVI) is indicated in patients at very high risk or 
who are contraindicated to AVR. The role of learning-curve in TAVI has to be 
established.
AIM: Assessment of the results of consecutive TAVI procedures based on the 
experience of the team.
METHODS: 58 high-risk consecutive patients with the average age of 82.2 years 
were divided into 3 groups based on the TAVI order ( 20., 21.-40., 41.-58.). 
After the Edwards SAPIEN implantation via transfemoral or transapical 
approaches, all patients were followed for minimum 30 days. Data from the 
national registry (Czech TAVI Registry) were used for the retrospective 
analysis. Comparison of the groups was done by using the Kruskal-Wallis test, 
Mann-Whitney U test and χ2 test.
RESULTS: Significantly shorter procedural time (p < 0.001), hospitalization (p = 
0.033) and a lower amount of contrast medium (p < 0.001) was observed during the 
time. There was no difference in the rate of clinical complications at 30 days.
CONCLUSIONS: Increasing experience of the TAVI implantation team is associated 
with significantly shorter procedural time, hospitalization and a lower amount 
of contrast medium. Overall very good clinical results during 30 days were not 
affected by the team experience.

PMID: 24985991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


663. Vnitr Lek. 2014 Apr;60(4):354, 356-8.

[Treatment of hypertension may affect the incidence of dementia?].

[Article in Czech]

Souček M.

High blood pressure is one of the main risk factor for developing dementia in 
high age. The connection between treatment of hypertension and reduced risk of 
cognitive impairment has been studied. Clinical trials have shown reduced risk 
of dementia after hypertension treatment. Efficacy of antihypertensive drugs 
varies in their impact on the incidence of dementia. Dementia together with 
higher life expectancy and prevalence of systolic hypertension will be real 
issue not only for health care in the near future. Primary and secondary 
prevention of dementia might be affected by hypertension treatment. Recently, it 
has been studied possible influence of subclinical damage by hypertension.

PMID: 24985998 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


664. Vnitr Lek. 2014 Apr;60(4):359-65.

[Right ventricle in severe pulmonary hypertension in congenital heart defects - 
different and specific].

[Article in Czech]

Simková I, Kaldarárová M.

Right ventricle (RV) is frequently neglected in comparison with left ventricle 
in many aspects - pathogenetic, diagnostic or therapy. In contrast with this, 
right chamber is pathologically an active part in severe pulmonary arterial 
hypertension (PAH) associated with congenital heart defects and also importantly 
influences its course and prognosis. Life expectancy and quality of life do not 
depend on pulmonary pressure. Inversely, function and status of RV is 
determining. Eisenmenger´s syndrome presents an extreme severe form of PAH. 
Unique adaptation ability of different and specific RV causes better symptomatic 
image of patients with Eisenmenger´s syndrome among all patients with PAH.

PMID: 24985999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


665. Surg Endosc. 2015 Feb;29(2):322-33. doi: 10.1007/s00464-014-3672-x. Epub
2014  Jul 2.

Laparoscopic colorectal surgery confers lower mortality in the elderly: a 
systematic review and meta-analysis of 66,483 patients.

Antoniou SA(1), Antoniou GA, Koch OO, Pointner R, Granderath FA.

Author information:
(1)Center for Minimally Invasive Surgery, Hospital Neuwerk, Mönchengladbach, 
Germany, stavros.antoniou@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Increasing life expectancy requires specific attention on geriatric 
patients. Data support a potential reduction of surgical morbidity for patients 
undergoing laparoscopic surgery as compared to conventional surgery. The aim of 
this study was to investigate the comparative effect of laparoscopic and open 
colorectal surgery on geriatric patients.
METHODS: A systematic review of electronic information sources was undertaken. 
Studies that provided outcome data on patients aged 65 years or older, subjected 
to laparoscopic or open colorectal surgery, were considered. Mortality, 
morbidity, cardiac and pulmonary complications were the outcome measures of 
treatment effect. The methodological quality of selected studies was 
independently appraised by two reviewers. Random effects model was applied to 
synthesize outcome data.
RESULTS: Twenty-seven articles providing data for 66,592 patients were included 
in the analysis. Patients undergoing laparoscopic surgery had a decreased risk 
for mortality (2.2 vs. 5.4 %; OR 0.55, 95 % CI 0.44-0.67), overall morbidity 
(19.3 vs. 26.7 %; OR 0.54, 95 % CI 0.46-0.63), cardiac (4.7 vs. 7.7 %; OR 0.60, 
95 % CI 0.39-0.92) and respiratory complications (3.9 vs. 6.3 %; OR 0.67, 95 % 
CI 0.47-0.95). Sensitivity analysis including reports with similar age, American 
Society of Anesthesiologists score and/or similar prevalence of cardiopulmonary 
morbidity between the laparoscopic and the open treatment arm validated the 
outcome estimates of the primary analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis supports a substantial benefit for elderly patients 
undergoing laparoscopic in comparison with open colorectal surgery. The 
comparative effect of either approach on geriatric patients with pulmonary and 
cardiac comorbidities is a subject of further investigation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-014-3672-x
PMID: 24986017 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


666. Pharmacoeconomics. 2015 Jul;33(7):699-706. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0182-6.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Qsymia for Weight Loss.

Finkelstein EA(1), Kruger E, Karnawat S.

Author information:
(1)Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, 8 College Road, Singapore, Singapore, 
eric.finkelstein@duke-nus.edu.sg.

BACKGROUND: Phase 3 clinical trial results reveal that Qsymia is a clinically 
effective long-term treatment for obesity, but whether this treatment is 
cost-effective compared to a diet and lifestyle intervention has yet to be 
explored.
OBJECTIVE: To quantify the incremental cost-effectiveness of Qsymia (phentermine 
and topiramate extended-release) for health-related quality of life 
improvements.
STUDY DESIGN AND METHODS: Estimates are based on cost and quality of life 
outcomes from a 56-week, multicenter, placebo-controlled, phase 3 clinical trial 
undertaken in 93 health centers in the US. Participants were overweight and 
obese adults (aged 18-70 years) with a body-mass index of 27-45 kg/m(2) and two 
or more comorbidities (hypertension, dyslipidemia, diabetes or pre-diabetes or 
abdominal obesity). The intervention was diet and lifestyle advice plus the 
recommended dose of Qsymia (phentermine 7.5 mg plus topiramate 46.0 mg) vs. 
control, which included diet and lifestyle advice plus placebo. The study was 
from the payer perspective. Costs included the prescription cost, medication 
cost offsets and physician appointment costs. Effectiveness was measured in 
terms of quality-adjusted life years gained (QALYs). The main outcome measure 
was incremental cost per QALY gained of the intervention relative to control.
RESULTS: Our base-case model, in which participants take Qsymia for 1 year with 
benefits linearly decaying over the subsequent 2 years, generates an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of $48,340 per QALY gained. Using the base-case 
assumptions, probabilistic sensitivity analyses reveal that the ICER is below 
$50,000 per QALY in 54 % of simulations. However, results are highly dependent 
on the extent to which benefits are maintained post medication cessation. If 
benefits persist for only 1 year post cessation, the ICER increases to $74,480.
CONCLUSION: Although base-case results suggest that Qsymia is cost-effective, 
this result hinges on the time on Qsymia and the extent to which benefits are 
maintained post medication cessation. This should be an area of future research.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0182-6
PMCID: PMC4486409
PMID: 24986038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


667. Can J Cardiol. 2014 Sep;30(9):962-70. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2014.03.022. Epub
2014  Mar 21.

Epidemiology of acquired valvular heart disease.

Iung B(1), Vahanian A(2).

Author information:
(1)Cardiology Department, Bichat Hospital, and Paris 7 Diderot University, 
Paris, France. Electronic address: bernard.iung@bch.aphp.fr.
(2)Cardiology Department, Bichat Hospital, and Paris 7 Diderot University, 
Paris, France.

Population-based studies including systematic echocardiographic examinations are 
required to assess the prevalence of valvular heart disease. In industrialized 
countries, the prevalence of valvular heart disease is estimated at 2.5%. 
Because of the predominance of degenerative etiologies, the prevalence of 
valvular disease increases markedly after the age of 65 years, in particular 
with regard to aortic stenosis and mitral regurgitation, which accounts for 3 in 
4 cases of valvular disease. Rheumatic heart disease still represents 22% of 
valvular heart disease in Europe. The prevalence of secondary mitral 
regurgitation cannot be assessed reliably but it seems to be a frequent disease. 
The incidence of infective endocarditis is approximately 30 cases per million 
individiuals per year. Its stability is associated with marked changes in its 
presentation. Patients are getting older and staphylococcus is now becoming the 
microorganism most frequently responsible. Heath care-associated infections are 
the most likely explanation of changes in the microbiology of infective 
endocarditis. In developing countries, rheumatic heart disease remains the 
leading cause of valvular heart disease. Its prevalence is high, between 20 and 
30 cases per 1000 subjects when using systematic echocardiographic screening. In 
conclusion, the temporal and geographical heterogeneity illustrates the effect 
of socioeconomic status and changes in life expectancy on the frequency and 
presentation of valvular heart disease. A decreased burden of valvular disease 
would require the elaboration of preventive strategies in industrialized 
countries and an improvement in the socioeconomic environment in developing 
countries.

Copyright © 2014 Canadian Cardiovascular Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2014.03.022
PMID: 24986049 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


668. Eur J Health Econ. 2014 Nov;15(8):787-90. doi: 10.1007/s10198-014-0618-0.

Considering productivity loss in cost-effectiveness analysis: a new approach.

Gandjour A(1).

Author information:
(1)Frankfurt School of Finance and Management, Sonnemannstr. 9-11, 60314, 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany, a.gandjour@fs.de.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-014-0618-0
PMID: 24986187 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


669. J Surg Oncol. 2014 Nov;110(6):666-9. doi: 10.1002/jso.23707. Epub 2014 Jul
2.

Surgical management of bowel obstruction in patients with peritoneal 
carcinomatosis.

Shariat-Madar B(1), Jayakrishnan TT, Gamblin TC, Turaga KK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgical Oncology, Department of Surgery, Medical College of 
Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin.

BACKGROUND: Due to low life expectancy, treatment strategies for malignant bowel 
obstruction (MBO) due to peritoneal carcinomatosis (PC) emphasize improved 
quality of life and symptom relief. Currently, the value of palliative surgery 
to treat obstructive PC is unclear.
METHODS: A prospectively registered search strategy (PROSPERO) was utilized to 
identify articles examining outcomes of patients undergoing surgical palliation 
for MBO from PC in PubMed (2003-2013). Primary outcomes of interest were median 
overall survival (OS) and treatment complications.
RESULTS: Of 730 articles screened, 64 were selected for full-text review and 5 
were quantitatively synthesized. This comprised 313 patients with MBO, of which 
249 (79.5%) presented with PC. The mean age was 61.4 years (range 51-67). The OS 
for surgical patients was 6.4 months (2.8-19.7, n = 190). Stratification by 
surgical technique suggested an OS of resection, ostomy, and enteral bypass as 
7.2 months (n = 174), 3.4 months (n = 9), and 2.7 months (n = 7), respectively. 
Major complications occurred in 37.0% of patients that underwent resection.
CONCLUSIONS: This study supports surgical resection over surgical bypass to 
treat obstructive PC, as it offered better OS with fewer complications. Higher 
quality studies are needed to conclusively assess the role of surgery in 
patients with obstructive PC.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jso.23707
PMID: 24986323 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


670. Int J Public Health. 2014 Oct;59(5):867-75. doi: 10.1007/s00038-014-0574-6.
Epub  2014 Jul 2.

The influence of (public) health expenditure on longevity.

Aísa R(1), Clemente J, Pueyo F.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Análisis Económico, Universidad de Zaragoza, Gran Vía 2, 
50005, Saragossa, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: We report new evidence on the contribution of health expenditure to 
increasing life expectancy in OECD countries, differentiating the effects of 
public and private health expenditures.
METHODS: A theoretical model is presented and estimated though a cross-country 
fixed effects multiple regression analysis for a sample of OECD countries over 
the period 1980-2000.
RESULTS: Although the effect of aggregate health expenditure is not conclusive, 
public health expenditure plays a significant role in enhancing longevity. 
However, its influence diminishes as the size of the public health sector on GDP 
expands, reaching a maximum around the 8 %.
CONCLUSIONS: With the influence of public health expenditure being positive, the 
ambiguous effect of the aggregate expenditure suggests that the weight of public 
and private health sectors matters, the second having a lower impact on 
longevity. This might explain the poor evolution of the life expectancy in 
countries with a high amount of private resources devoted to health. In such 
cases, an extension of public services could give rise to a better outcome from 
the overall health investment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-014-0574-6
PMID: 24986366 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


671. Eur Heart J. 2014 Jul 1;35(25):1625-7. doi: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehu186.

Progress and challenges in the fight against smoking and cardiovascular disease.

Murray CJ, Roth G.

DOI: 10.1093/eurheartj/ehu186
PMID: 24986418 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


672. Cancer Treat Rev. 2014 Sep;40(8):1005-18. doi: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2014.06.007.
Epub  2014 Jun 23.

Patients' preferences for surgical and adjuvant systemic treatment in early 
breast cancer: a systematic review.

Hamelinck VC(1), Bastiaannet E(2), Pieterse AH(3), Jannink I(4), van de Velde 
CJ(5), Liefers GJ(5), Stiggelbout AM(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands; Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(2)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands; Department of Gerontology & Geriatrics, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Surgery, HAGA Hospital, The Hague, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Surgery, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands. Electronic address: a.m.stiggelbout@lumc.nl.

PURPOSE: Treatment decisions in early breast cancer can revolve around type of 
surgery and whether or not to have adjuvant systemic therapy. This systematic 
review aims to give an overview of patient self-reported factors affecting 
preferences for breast conserving surgery (BCS) versus mastectomy (MAST), the 
minimal benefit patients require from adjuvant chemotherapy (aCT) and/or 
adjuvant hormonal therapy (aHT) to consider it worthwhile, and factors 
influencing this minimally-required benefit.
METHODS: PubMed and EMBASE were searched for relevant articles. Two reviewers 
independently selected articles and extracted data.
RESULTS: We identified 15 studies on surgical and six on adjuvant systemic 
treatment decision-making. Factors affecting patient preference for BCS most 
frequently related to body image (44%), while factors influencing preference for 
MAST most often related to survival/recurrence (46%). To make adjuvant systemic 
therapy worthwhile, the median required absolute increase in survival rate was 
0.1-10% and the median required additional life expectancy was 1 day to 5 years. 
The range of individual preferences was wide within studies. Participants in the 
aHT studies required larger median benefits than those in the aCT studies. 
Factors associated with judging smaller benefits sufficient most often (44%) 
related to quality of life (e.g., less treatment toxicity).
CONCLUSION: Decisive factors in patients' preferences for surgery type commonly 
relate to body image and survival/recurrence. Most participants judged small to 
moderate benefits sufficient to consider adjuvant systemic therapy worthwhile, 
but individual preferences varied widely. Clinicians should therefore consider 
the patient's preferences to tailor their treatment recommendations accordingly.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ctrv.2014.06.007
PMID: 24986544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


673. Heart. 2014 Oct;100(20):1571-6. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2013-305132.

Surgical management of aortic root disease in Marfan syndrome and other 
congenital disorders associated with aortic root aneurysms.

Treasure T, Takkenberg JJ, Pepper J.

Republished in
    Postgrad Med J. 2016 Feb;92(1084):112-7.

Elective root replacement in Marfan syndrome has improved life expectancy in 
affected patients. Three forms of surgery are now available: total root 
replacement (TRR) with a valved conduit, valve sparing root replacement (VSRR) 
and personalised external aortic root support (PEARS) with a macroporous mesh 
sleeve. TRR can be performed irrespective of aortic dimensions and a mechanical 
replacement valve is a secure and near certain means of correcting aortic valve 
regurgitation but has thromboembolic and bleeding risks. VSRR offers freedom 
from anticoagulation and attendant risks of bleeding but reoperation for aortic 
regurgitation runs at 1.3% per annum. A prospective multi-institutional study 
has found this to be an underestimate of the true rate of valve-related adverse 
events. PEARS conserves the aortic root anatomy and optimises the chance of 
maintaining valve function but average follow-up is under 5 years and so the 
long-term results are yet to be determined. Patients are on average in their 30s 
and so the cumulative lifetime need for reoperation, and of any valve-related 
complications, are consequently substantial. With lowering surgical risk of 
prophylactic root replacement, the threshold for intervention has reduced 
progressively over 30 years to 4.5 cm and so an increasing number of patients 
who are not destined to have a dissection are now having root replacement. In 
evaluation of these three forms of surgery, the number needed to treat to 
prevent dissection and the balance of net benefit and harm in future patients 
must be considered.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2013-305132
PMCID: PMC4215278
PMID: 24986892 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


674. J Surg Case Rep. 2014 Jul 1;2014(7):rju066. doi: 10.1093/jscr/rju066.

Synchronous tumours of the breast and bladder.

Wallace D(1), Arul D(2), Chitale S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Cancer and Diagnostic, Whittington Hospital, London, 
UK david.wallace5@nhs.net.
(2)Department of Surgery, Cancer and Diagnostic, Whittington Hospital, London, 
UK.

The presentation of synchronous primary tumours is rare and presents a difficult 
diagnostic and therapeutic challenge to primary care clinicians and hospital 
specialists. Increased life expectancy, improved radiological and biochemical 
investigation and more rigorous pre- and postoperative evaluation will lead to 
an increasing clinical trend for both metachronous and synchronous primary 
neoplasms. We report on a case of synchronous bladder and breast cancer in an 
elderly woman. We detail our investigation and management of the patient, review 
the literature and suggest the possible causative factors for the association of 
these synchronous tumours. We also highlight the extent of multiple primary 
cancers and discuss the diagnostic, treatment and preventative strategies for 
metachronous and synchronous primary tumours.

© Crown copyright 2014.

DOI: 10.1093/jscr/rju066
PMCID: PMC4077110
PMID: 24986985


675. J Clin Imaging Sci. 2014 Apr 30;4:23. doi: 10.4103/2156-7514.131740.
eCollection  2014.

Aggressive angiomyxoma with perineal herniation.

Narang S(1), Kohli S(1), Kumar V(1), Chandoke R(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, ESI Model Hospital and Post-Graduate Institute of 
Medical Sciences and Research, Basaidarapur, New Delhi, India.
(2)Department of Pathology, ESI Model Hospital and Post-Graduate Institute of 
Medical Sciences and Research, Basaidarapur, New Delhi, India.

Aggressive angiomyxoma is a rare mesenchymal tumor involving the pelvic-perineal 
