1.40 سنة على معدل توقع حياتهم عند ميلاد مقارنة بإضافة 1.85 سنة على معدل توقع 
الحياة بين الإناث.

Publisher: Tables de mortalité en l'absence de décès par néoplasme malin et 
impact sur l'espérance de vie à la naissance au Koweït. L'objectif de la 
présente étude était de mettre en évidence le taux d'incidence du cancer au 
Koweït, les tendances du taux de mortalité par néoplasme malin et l'estimation 
du nombre d'années gagnées en l'absence de décès par néoplasme malin (CIM-10). 
La présente étude a appliqué les techniques des tables de mortalité 
conventionnelles et après élimination d'une cause de décès afin de démontrer 
l'importance de la lutte contre les décès dus au cancer pour augmenter 
l'espérance de vie à la naissance. Les résultats confirment que l'élimination du 
cancer en tant que cause de décès chez les Koweïtiens allongerait de 1,80 an 
l'espérance de vie des hommes koweïtiens et de 1,94 an celle des femmes 
koweïtiennes à la naissance, par rapport à une élimination partielle. 
L'élimination du cancer pour ceux qui seraient décédés d'un néoplasme malin 
devrait ajouter 1,40 an à l'espérance de vie des hommes à la naissance et 1,85 
an à celle des femmes.

PMID: 24995759


698. Annu Rev Microbiol. 2014;68:217-35. doi:
10.1146/annurev-micro-091313-103456.  Epub 2014 Jun 2.

Effects of antibiotics on human microbiota and subsequent disease.

Keeney KM(1), Yurist-Doutsch S, Arrieta MC, Finlay BB.

Author information:
(1)Michael Smith Laboratories.

Although antibiotics have significantly improved human health and life 
expectancy, their disruption of the existing microbiota has been linked to 
significant side effects such as antibiotic-associated diarrhea, 
pseudomembranous colitis, and increased susceptibility to subsequent disease. By 
using antibiotics to break colonization resistance against Clostridium, 
Salmonella, and Citrobacter species, researchers are now exploring mechanisms 
for microbiota-mediated modulation against pathogenic infection, revealing 
potential roles for different phyla and family members as well as 
microbiota-liberated sugars, hormones, and short-chain fatty acids in regulating 
pathogenicity. Furthermore, connections are now being made between microbiota 
dysbiosis and a variety of different diseases such as rheumatoid arthritis, 
inflammatory bowel disease, type 1 diabetes, atopy, and obesity. Future advances 
in the rapidly developing field of microbial bioinformatics will enable 
researchers to further characterize the mechanisms of microbiota modulation of 
disease and potentially identify novel therapeutics against disease.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-micro-091313-103456
PMID: 24995874 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


699. Immunol Lett. 2014 Nov;162(1 Pt B):329-33. doi: 10.1016/j.imlet.2014.06.012.
 Epub 2014 Jul 1.

Aging with HIV infection: a journey to the center of inflammAIDS, 
immunosenescence and neuroHIV.

Nasi M(1), Pinti M(2), De Biasi S(1), Gibellini L(1), Ferraro D(3), Mussini 
C(4), Cossarizza A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Medicine, Dentistry and Morphological Sciences, 
University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.
(2)Department of Life Sciences, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, 
Italy.
(3)Department of Biomedical, Metabolic and Neurosciences, University of Modena 
and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy.
(4)Department of Surgery, Medicine, Dentistry and Morphological Sciences, 
University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy; Infectious Diseases 
Clinics, Azienda Ospedaliero-Universitaria Policlinico di Modena, Modena, Italy.
(5)Department of Surgery, Medicine, Dentistry and Morphological Sciences, 
University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, Modena, Italy. Electronic address: 
andrea.cossarizza@unimore.it.

In the last years, a significant improvement in life expectancy of HIV+ patients 
has been observed in Western countries. The parallel increase in the mean age of 
these patients causes a parallel increase in the frequency of non-AIDS related 
complications (i.e., neurocognitive, cardiovascular, liver and kidney diseases, 
metabolic syndrome, osteoporosis, non-HIV associated cancers, among others), 
even when antiviral treatment is successful. Immune activation and persistent 
inflammation characterizes both HIV infection and physiological aging, and both 
conditions share common detrimental pathways that lead to early 
immunosenescence. Furthermore, HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders represent 
important consequences of the infection. The persistent systemic immune 
activation, the continuous migration of activated monocytes to the central 
nervous system and progressive patients' aging contribute to develop neuronal 
injuries, that are in turn linked to HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders, 
which can persist despite successful antiretroviral treatment.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.imlet.2014.06.012
PMID: 24996041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


700. Physiother Res Int. 2015 Jun;20(2):87-99. doi: 10.1002/pri.1599. Epub 2014
Jul  3.

Effectiveness of task specific gait and balance exercise 4 months after hip 
fracture: protocol of a randomized controlled trial--the Eva-hip study.

Thingstad P(1), Taraldsen K(1), Hagen G(2), Sand S(3), Saltvedt I(1)(4), 
Sletvold O(1)(4), Helbostad JL(1)(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuroscience, Norwegian University of Science and Technology, 
Trondheim, Norway.
(2)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Norwegian University of 
Science and Technology, Trondheim, Norway.
(3)Unit for Physiotherapy Services, the Municipality of Trondheim, Trondheim, 
Norway.
(4)Department of Geriatrics, St Olav University Hospital, Trondheim, Norway.
(5)Department of Clinical Services, St. Olav University Hospital, Trondheim, 
Norway.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Regular rehabilitation is not sufficient for regaining 
function after a hip fracture, and more targeted interventions for home-dwelling 
elderly hip-fracture patients are needed. This paper describes the protocol of a 
study assessing the effectiveness and cost effectiveness of a task specific 
progressive gait and balance exercise programme for hip-fracture patients, 
performed 4 months after the fracture.
METHODS/DESIGN: A single blind two-arm pragmatic randomised controlled trial was 
conducted with 142 hip-fracture patients randomized to a 10-week home-based 
exercise programme or to practice as usual 4 months following the surgery. 
Inclusion criteria were age >70 years and being home dwelling prior to the 
fracture. Exclusion criteria are life expectancy <3 months and inability to walk 
10 m prior to the fracture. The content and organization of the programme was 
developed in collaboration between physiotherapy researchers and primary 
health-care physiotherapists. Participants were followed for 1 year 
post-surgery, evaluating short-term and long-term effects of the programme. The 
primary outcome is gait speed, and the secondary outcomes are spatial and 
temporal gait parameters, free living physical behaviour by activity monitoring, 
mobility performance, activities of daily living, fear of falling, cognitive 
function, depression and health-related quality of life. Cost-effectiveness 
analysis is planned.
DISCUSSION: This paper describes a task specific exercise programme aimed to 
improve gait and balance after a hip fracture. Inclusion started in February 
2011, and the last 1-year follow-up is performed in March 2014. Broad inclusion 
criteria and physiotherapy-guided home-based exercises may facilitate the 
participation from frail patients and thereby increase the generalizability of 
the findings. Development and completion of the intervention within routine 
clinical practice will enlighten the implementation of results into clinical 
practice. Results may add new insight into how physiotherapy can improve gait 
and thereby activity and functioning in everyday life and have implications on 
future content and organization of physiotherapy after a hip fracture.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/pri.1599
PMID: 24996117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


701. Insect Sci. 2015 Oct;22(5):688-99. doi: 10.1111/1744-7917.12153. Epub 2014
Aug  21.

Vertical stratification of ichneumonid wasp communities: the effects of forest 
structure and life-history traits.

Di Giovanni F(1)(2)(3), Cerretti P(1)(2)(3), Mason F(2), Minari E(2), Marini 
L(3).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Biologia e Biotecnologie "Charles Darwin", Università di Roma 
"La Sapienza", Piazzale A. Moro 5, 00185, Rome, Italy.
(2)Centro Nazionale per lo Studio e la Conservazione della Biodiversità 
Forestale, Corpo Forestale dello Stato, via Carlo Ederle 16/A, 37100, Verona, 
Italy.
(3)DAFNAE, Università di Padova, viale dell'Università 16, 35020, Legnaro, 
Padua, Italy.

Parasitoid wasp communities of the canopy of temperate forests are still largely 
unexplored. Very little is known about the community composition of parasitoids 
between canopy and understory and how much of this difference is related to 
forest structure or parasitoid biological strategies. In this study we 
investigated upon the difference in the community composition of the parasitic 
wasps Ichneumonidae between canopy and understory in a lowland temperate forest 
in northern Italy. We used general linear models to test whether parasitic 
strategy modifies species vertical stratification and the effect of forest 
structure. We also tested differences in β-diversity between canopy and 
understory traps and over time within single forest layers. We found that stand 
basal area was positively related to species richness, suggesting that the 
presence of mature trees can influence local wasp diversity, providing a higher 
number of microhabitats and hosts. The ichneumonid community of the canopy was 
different from that of the understory, and the β-diversity analysis showed 
higher values for the canopy, due to a higher degree of species turnover between 
traps. In our analyses, the vertical stratification was different between groups 
of ichneumonids sharing different parasitic strategies. Idiobiont parasitoids of 
weakly or deeply concealed hosts were more diverse in the understory than in the 
canopy while parasitoids of spiders were equally distributed between the two 
layers. Even though the ichneumonid community was not particularly species-rich 
in the canopy of the temperate forests, the extension of sampling to that 
habitat significantly increased the number of species recorded.

© 2014 Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences.

DOI: 10.1111/1744-7917.12153
PMID: 24996133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


702. Arch Dis Child. 2014 Nov;99(11):1033-6. doi:
10.1136/archdischild-2013-304400.  Epub 2014 Jul 4.

Recent advances in the management of cystic fibrosis.

Davies JC(1), Ebdon AM(2), Orchard C(3).

Author information:
(1)Imperial College, London, UK Royal Brompton and Harefield NHS Foundation 
Trust, London, UK.
(2)Royal Brompton and Harefield NHS Foundation Trust, London, UK.
(3)Frimley Park Hospital, Frimley, Surrey, UK.

Cystic fibrosis is a disease that still causes a reduced life expectancy. The 
treatment burden remains high for affected individuals with often a combination 
of multiple oral and inhaled medications, as well as physiotherapy, required on 
a daily basis. In this article, we look at an overview of the pathogenesis, how 
this might lead to treatment options and look at some of the available new 
therapies, all in the aim of increasing life expectancy and reducing treatment 
burden.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2013-304400
PMID: 24996790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Microbiology (Reading). 2014 Sep;160(Pt 9):1893-1902. doi: 
10.1099/mic.0.079418-0. Epub 2014 Jul 4.

Characterization of stipe elongation of the mushroom Coprinopsis cinerea.

Zhang W(1), Wu X(1), Zhou Y(1), Liu Z(1), Zhang W(1), Niu X(1), Zhao Y(1), Pei 
S(1), Zhao Y(1), Yuan S(1).

Author information:
(1)Jiangsu Key Laboratory for Microbes and Microbial Functional Genomics, 
Jiangsu Engineering and Technology Research Center for Industrialization of 
Microbial Resources, College of Life Science, Nanjing Normal University, Nanjing 
210023, PR China.

Previously, we observed an acid-induced short-term wall extension in Flammulina 
velutipes apical stipes during a 15 min period after a change from a neutral to 
an acidic pH. This acid-induced stipe wall extension was eliminated by heating 
and reconstituted by a snail expansin-like protein, although we failed to 
isolate any endogenous expansin-like protein from F. velutipes because of its 
limited 1 mm fast elongation region. In this study, we report that Coprinopsis 
cinerea stipes possess a 9 mm fast elongation apical region, which is suitable 
as a model material for wall extension studies. The elongating apical stipe 
showed two phases of acid-induced wall extension, an initial quick short-term 
wall extension during the first 15 min and a slower, gradually decaying 
long-term wall extension over the subsequent 2 h. After heating or protein 
inactivation pretreatment, apical stipes lost the long-term wall extension, 
retaining a slower short-term wall extension, which was reconstituted by an 
expansin-like snail protein. In contrast, the non-elongating basal stipes showed 
only a weaker short-term wall extension. We propose that the long-term wall 
extension is a protein-mediated process involved in stipe elongation, whereas 
the short-term wall extension is a non-protein mediated process not involved in 
stipe elongation.

© 2014 The Authors.

DOI: 10.1099/mic.0.079418-0
PMID: 24996826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. Health Policy. 2014 Sep;117(3):361-73. doi: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2014.06.002.
 Epub 2014 Jun 11.

The effect of pharmaceutical innovation on longevity, hospitalization and 
medical expenditure in Turkey, 1999-2010.

Lichtenberg FR(1), Tatar M(2), Çalışkan Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, 504 Uris Hall, 3022 
Broadway, New York, NY 10027, USA. Electronic address: frl1@columbia.edu.
(2)Department of Health Care Management, Hacettepe University, 06800, Beytepe, 
Ankara, Turkey. Electronic address: mtatar@hacettepe.edu.tr.
(3)Department of Economics, Hacettepe University, 06800, Beytepe, Ankara, 
Turkey. Electronic address: caliskan@hacettepe.edu.tr.

We investigate the impact of pharmaceutical innovation on longevity, 
hospitalization and medical expenditure in Turkey during the period 1999-2010 
using longitudinal, disease-level data. From 1999 to 2008, mean age at death 
increased by 3.6 years, from 63.0 to 66.6 years. We estimate that in the absence 
of any pharmaceutical innovation, mean age at death would have increased by only 
0.6 years. Hence, pharmaceutical innovation is estimated to have increased mean 
age at death in Turkey by 3.0 years during the period 1999-2008. We also examine 
the effect of pharmaceutical innovation on hospital utilization. We estimate 
that pharmaceutical innovation has reduced the number of hospital days by 
approximately 1% per year. We use our estimates of the effect of pharmaceutical 
innovation on age at death, hospital utilization and pharmaceutical expenditure 
to assess the incremental cost-effectiveness of pharmaceutical innovation, i.e., 
the cost per life-year gained from the introduction of new drugs. The baseline 
estimate of the cost per life-year gained from pharmaceutical innovation is 
$2776. Even the latter figure is a very small fraction of leading economists' 
estimates of the value of (or consumers' willingness to pay for) a one-year 
increase in life expectancy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.healthpol.2014.06.002
PMID: 24996837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Bull Soc Pathol Exot. 2015 Feb;108(1):41-5. doi: 10.1007/s13149-014-0376-3.
Epub  2014 Jul 5.

[Epidemiological transition of mycosis diseases in sub-Saharan Africa: from 
surface to depth].

[Article in French]

Chandenier J(1)(2), Desoubeaux G(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Parasitologie-mycologie-médecine tropicale, CHRU, 37000, Tours, France. 
chandenier@med.univ-tours.fr.
(2)Centre d'étude des pathologies respiratoires, INSERM U1100/EA6305, Tours, 
France. chandenier@med.univ-tours.fr.
(3)Parasitologie-mycologie-médecine tropicale, CHRU, 37000, Tours, France.
(4)Centre d'étude des pathologies respiratoires, INSERM U1100/EA6305, Tours, 
France.

Fungi are schematically responsible for three distinct kinds of infections: 
superficial mycoses, subcutaneous and deep ones. The current 
socio-epidemiological transition observed in sub-Saharan Africa does not 
actually lead to similar consequences regarding these three categories of fungal 
entities. For instance, it has long been known that superficial mycoses are very 
prevalent in tropical areas, since they are partly due to the warm climate and 
the promiscuity. They are mostly caused by dermatophytic fungi or Malassezia sp. 
(Pityriasis versicolor). Subcutaneous mycoses are rarer, and usually due to 
dimorphic fungi which are accidentally inoculated into the body after a skin 
injury or a trauma. Sometimes very spectacular, the clinical outcome is then 
described as chronic. Thus, chromoblastomycosis, rhinoentomophtoromycosis or 
mycetoma are some examples of subcutaneous mycoses which remain well-known by 
practitioners of endemic countries. Deep mycoses (or invasive / systemic 
mycoses) are defined by fungal infections of deep anatomical sites that should 
be normally sterile. By contrast with the other entities mentioned above, the 
outcome may be rapidly fatal for the patient. One of the most outstanding 
examples was the great increasing of cryptococcal meningitis during the HIV 
outbreak in the 80'. A few other similar mycoses may be feared in a near future, 
since they usually occur in contexts of important immunosuppression which are 
about to be definitely experienced in Africa: overall increase of chronic 
diseases like diabetes, lengthening life expectancy and its associated diseases, 
widespread medical practices which were only seen in advanced intensive care 
units, onco-haematology departments or graft centers so far. Thus, the deep 
mycoses will inevitably increase in Africa, as they did in all developed 
countries over the last two decades. The consequences will not only be limited 
to the clinical management as described above: the diagnostic approach is also 
quite particular, since the identification of the involved fungal species should 
be established in emergency, if not the outcome will be fatal. Besides, the 
antifungal drugs are expensive, and their therapeutic monitoring is quite 
challenging all along the follow up. Overall, we have to thoroughly take into 
account the emergence of invasive mycoses right now in Intertropical Africa, in 
order to successfully achieve the socio-economic development of this continent.

DOI: 10.1007/s13149-014-0376-3
PMID: 24997574 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


706. J Biotechnol. 2014 Dec 20;192 Pt B:400-9. doi:
10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.06.021.  Epub 2014 Jul 3.

Suitability of the hydrocarbon-hydroxylating molybdenum-enzyme ethylbenzene 
dehydrogenase for industrial chiral alcohol production.

Tataruch M(1), Heider J(2), Bryjak J(3), Nowak P(1), Knack D(1), Czerniak A(4), 
Liesiene J(5), Szaleniec M(6).

Author information:
(1)Jerzy Haber Institute of Catalysis and Surface Chemistry, PAS, Niezapominajek 
8, 30-239 Kraków, Poland.
(2)Laboratory for Microbial Biochemistry and Synmikro Center for Synthetic 
Microbiology, Philipps University of Marburg, 35043 Marburg, Germany.
(3)Department of Bioinorganic Chemistry, Wrocław Technical University, Wybrzeże 
Wyspiańskiego 27, 50-370 Wrocław, Poland.
(4)Department of Biotechnology and Food Microbiology, Poznan University of Life 
Sciences, Wojska Polskiego 48, Poznań 60-627, Poland.
(5)Department of Chemical Technology, Kaunas University of Technology, Radvilenu 
pl. 19, LT-50254 Kaunas, Lithuania.
(6)Jerzy Haber Institute of Catalysis and Surface Chemistry, PAS, Niezapominajek 
8, 30-239 Kraków, Poland. Electronic address: ncszalen@cyfronet.pl.

The molybdenum/iron-sulfur/heme protein ethylbenzene dehydrogenase (EbDH) was 
successfully applied to catalyze enantiospecific hydroxylation of alkylaromatic 
and alkylheterocyclic compounds. The optimization of the synthetic procedure 
involves use of the enzyme in a crude purification state that saves significant 
preparation effort and is more stable than purified EbDH without exhibiting 
unwanted side reactions. Moreover, immobilization of the enzyme on a crystalline 
cellulose support and changes in reaction conditions were introduced in order to 
increase the amounts of product formed (anaerobic atmosphere, electrochemical 
electron acceptor recycling or utilization of ferricyanide as alternative 
electron acceptor in high concentrations). We report here on an extension of 
effective enzyme activity from 4h to more than 10 days and final product yields 
of up to 0.4-0.5g/l, which represent a decent starting point for further 
optimization. Therefore, we expect that the hydrocarbon-hydroxylation 
capabilities of EbDH may be developed into a new process of industrial 
production of chiral alcohols.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jbiotec.2014.06.021
PMID: 24998764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Public Health. 2014 Jul;128(7):636-42. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2014.05.002. Epub
 2014 Jul 4.

Cost-effectiveness of Community Health Workers in controlling diabetes epidemic 
on the U.S.-Mexico border.

Ryabov I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology and Anthropology, The University of Texas-Pan 
American, 1201 W. University Drive, Edinburg, TX 78539-2999, United States. 
Electronic address: ryabovi@utpa.edu.

OBJECTIVES: This study attempted to evaluate clinical outcomes and long-term 
cost-effectiveness of an intervention involving Community Health Workers (CHW's, 
a.k.a. promotoras de salud in Spanish) in assisting Mexican-American diabetes 
type-2 patients with controlling their condition. The intervention has been 
carried out in Hidalgo County, TX which is situated on the U.S.-Mexico border.
STUDY DESIGN: The design of the study is experimental. The sample (n = 30) was 
recruited from Mexican-American diabetes patients aged 30 or above. The 
intervention group received monthly visits from CHW's, while the control group 
did not.
METHODS: Incremental lifetime health outcomes and related expenditures were 
calculated using the CDC Diabetes Cost-Effectiveness Model (DCEM) which is a 
probabilistic computer simulation model of disease progression and 
cost-effectiveness for type 2 diabetes patients. The DCEM allows projection of 
lifetime healthcare costs and Quality-Adjusted Life-Years (QALYs).
RESULTS: The intervention group showed a significant improvement in glycemic 
control and cholesterol management after two years of intervention. The 
intervention is expected to reduce long-term complications, resulting in an 
increase in residual life-years and quality-adjusted life-years. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio has been estimated to be $13,810, which is below the 
level of comparable studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Intervention has a substantial impact on the medical costs of type 
2 diabetes treatment. The estimates presented in this model may be used to 
analyse the cost-effectiveness of interventions involving CHW's for type 2 
diabetes.

Copyright © 2014 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2014.05.002
PMID: 24999158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Can J Cardiol. 2014 Sep;30(9):1058-63. doi: 10.1016/j.cjca.2014.03.005. Epub
 2014 Mar 12.

Cost-effectiveness considerations in transcatheter management of valvular heart 
disease.

Gadey G(1), Reynolds MR(2).

Author information:
(1)Lahey Hospital & Medical Center, Burlington, Massachusetts, USA.
(2)Lahey Hospital & Medical Center, Burlington, Massachusetts, USA. Electronic 
address: Matthew.R.Reynolds@lahey.org.

In 2011, health care spending in Canada accounted for 11.2% of gross domestic 
product. Increased life expectancy, combined with the fact that new medical 
technologies generally tend to improve clinical results at an increased cost, 
are leading developed nations to devote rising amounts of financial resources to 
health care. Valvular heart disease is an example of an age-related health 
problem with rising prevalence that has recently seen an emergence of new 
catheter-based technologies, which are rapidly changing the treatment landscape. 
This article reviews the current literature on the health economics of 
catheter-based valve therapies. Transcatheter aortic valve replacement (TAVR), a 
less invasive approach to valve replacement, is currently approved in the United 
States, Canada, and Europe for 2 groups of patients: those with symptomatic 
severe aortic stenosis who are unsuitable for surgery and those who are suitable 
but are at high risk for surgery. TAVR, when compared with medical therapy, 
results in significant improvement in survival for inoperable patients, with 
incremental costs that are generally considered to be acceptable in most western 
nations. However, in high-risk surgical candidates, TAVR has shown similar 
survival rates when compared with surgical aortic valve replacement, with only 
short-term advantages in quality of life. Cost-effectiveness ratios in this 
population have varied widely based on differing estimates of incremental costs. 
Information regarding the health economics of transcatheter mitral valve 
therapies is still quite preliminary and limited to the MitraClip (Abbott 
Laboratories, Abbott Park, IL). Ongoing trials should provide additional 
information about the health economics of this new technology.

Copyright © 2014 Canadian Cardiovascular Society. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cjca.2014.03.005
PMID: 24999170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. Bone. 2014 Oct;67:41-5. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2014.06.029. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

Loading dose of physical activity is related to muscle strength and bone density 
in middle-aged women.

Chahal J(1), Lee R(1), Luo J(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, University of Roehampton, London, UK.
(2)Department of Life Sciences, University of Roehampton, London, UK. Electronic 
address: Jin.Luo@roehampton.ac.uk.

The aim of the current study was to investigate the association between loading 
dose of physical activity, muscle strength and bone density in middle-aged 
women. Thirty four healthy women (mean age=49.8±7.5years) were recruited. They 
were requested to wear an accelerometer for a period of 10h (from 9am to 7pm) on 
a day to record the acceleration. On a separate day their knee extension torque 
(KET) was measured using an isokinetic dynamometer and broadband ultrasound 
attenuation (BUA) at the heel by an ultrasound bone scanner. The loading dose of 
physical activity was calculated at four intensity categories - very light, 
light, moderate, and vigorous (intensities of <5BW/s, 5-10BW/s, 10-15BW/s and 
>15BW/s) and for three frequency bands - 0.1-2Hz, 2-4Hz, and 4-6Hz. Correlation 
analysis was used to examine the association between loading dose and age, KET, 
and BUA. With the increase of age, there tended to be a decrease in the loading 
dose of vigorous activity in 2-4 and 4-6Hz frequency bands (Kendall's tau=-.22, 
p<.1). The increase of loading dose in all three frequency bands in moderate or 
vigorous activity was associated with higher BUA (Kendall's tau=.27-.41, p<.05). 
The increase of loading dose in all frequency bands in light, moderate, or 
vigorous activity was associated with higher KET (Kendall's tau=.30-.45, p<.05). 
It is concluded that physical activity, especially that at high intensity level 
and high frequency range, may have beneficial effect on muscle strength and bone 
density in middle-aged women.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2014.06.029
PMID: 24999224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


710. J Spinal Disord Tech. 2015 Apr;28(3):101-5. doi:
10.1097/BSD.0b013e318269cc4a.

Cost per quality-adjusted life year gained of revision fusion for lumbar 
pseudoarthrosis: defining the value of surgery.

Adogwa O(1), Parker SL, Shau D, Mendelhall SK, Aaronson O, Cheng J, Devin CJ, 
McGirt MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, 
TN.

STUDY DESIGN: Single cohort study of patients undergoing revision fusion for 
lumbar pseudoarthrosis.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the 2-year comprehensive costs of revision arthrodesis for 
lumbar pseudoarthrosis at our institution and determine the associated cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained in this patient population.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: The proportion of lumbar spine operations involving 
a fusion procedure has increased over the past 2 decades. Similarly, there has 
been a corresponding increase in the incidence and prevalence of 
pseudoarthrosis. However, the cost-effectiveness of revision surgery for 
pseudoarthrosis-associated back pain has yet to be examined.
METHODS: Forty-seven patients undergoing revision instrumented arthrodesis for 
pseudoarthrosis-associated back pain were included. Two-year total back-related 
medical resource utilization, missed work, and health-state values (QALYs, 
calculated from EuroQuol 5D with US valuation) were assessed. Two-year resource 
use was multiplied by unit costs based on Medicare national allowable payment 
amounts (direct cost) and patient and care-giver work-day losses were multiplied 
by the self-reported gross-of-tax wage rate (indirect cost). The mean total 
2-year cost per QALY gained after revision surgery was assessed.
RESULTS: The mean (±SD) duration of time between prior fusion and development of 
symptomatic pseudoarthrosis was 2.69±3.09 years. None of the patients developed 
symptomatic pseudoarthrosis after 2 years of revision surgery. A mean cumulative 
2-year gain of 0.35 QALYs was reported. The mean (±SD) total 2-year cost of 
revision fusion was $41,631±$9691 (surgery cost: $23,865±$270; outpatient 
resource utilization cost: $4885±$2301; indirect cost: $12,879±$8171). Revision 
instrumented arthrodesis was associated with a mean 2-year cost per QALY gained 
of $118,945.
CONCLUSIONS: Revision arthrodesis was associated with improved 2-year quality of 
life in patients with pseudoarthrosis-related back pain. Nevertheless, in our 
experience revision surgery was shown to be marginally cost-effective at 
$118,945 per QALY gained.

DOI: 10.1097/BSD.0b013e318269cc4a
PMID: 24999554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. J R Coll Physicians Edinb. 2014;44(2):103-5. doi: 10.4997/JRCPE.2014.202.

What causes health?

Burns H(1).

Author information:
(1)H Burns University of Strathclyde 18 Richmond Street Glasgow G1 1XQ. Email 
harry.burns@strath.ac.uk.

DOI: 10.4997/JRCPE.2014.202
PMID: 24999768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 7;9(7):e100979. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100979. 
eCollection 2014.

Predictors of natural and unnatural mortality among patients with personality 
disorder: evidence from a large UK case register.

Fok ML(1), Stewart R(2), Hayes RD(2), Moran P(1).

Author information:
(1)King's College London, King's Health Partners, Dept of Health Service and 
Population Research, Institute of Psychiatry, London, United Kingdom.
(2)King's College London, King's Health Partners, Dept of Psychological 
Medicine, Institute of Psychiatry, London, United Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: People with personality disorder have reduced life expectancy, yet, 
within this population, little is known about the clinical predictors of natural 
and unnatural deaths. We set out to investigate this, using a large cohort of 
secondary mental health patients with personality disorder.
METHODS: We identified patients with an ICD-10 diagnosis of personality 
disorder, aged ≥15 years in a large secondary mental healthcare case register. 
The case register was linked to national mortality tracing. Using Cox 
regression, we modelled the effect of a number of pre-specified clinical 
variables on all-cause, natural cause and unnatural cause mortality.
FINDINGS: 2,440 patients were identified. Eighty-five deaths (3.5% of cohort) 
occurred over a 5-year observation period, of which over 50% were from natural 
causes. All-cause mortality was associated with alcohol or drug use (adjusted 
Hazard Ratio [aHR] 2.3; 95% CI 1.3-4.1), physical illness (aHR 1.9; 95% CI 
1.0-3.6), and functional impairment (aHR 1.9; 95% CI 1.0-3.6). Natural cause 
mortality was associated with mild problems of alcohol or drug use (aHR 3.4; 95% 
CI 1.5-7.4), and physical illness (aHR 2.4; 95% CI 1.0-5.6). Unnatural cause 
mortality was associated only with severe alcohol or drug use (aHR 3.1; 95% CI 
1.3-7.3).
INTERPRETATION: Alcohol and drug use, physical illness, and functional 
impairment are predictors of mortality in individuals with personality disorder. 
Clinicians should be aware of the existence of problems in these domains, even 
at mild levels, when assessing the needs of patients with personality disorder.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100979
PMCID: PMC4085063
PMID: 25000503 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: One of the co-authors, RS, 
is an academic editor for PLOS ONE. This does not alter the authors' adherence 
to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


713. BMC Res Notes. 2014 Jul 8;7:438. doi: 10.1186/1756-0500-7-438.

Predicting preference-based utility values using partial proportional odds 
models.

Ara R(1), Kearns B, vanHout BA, Brazier JE.

Author information:
(1)University of Sheffield, School of Health and Related Research, 30 Regent 
Street, Regent Court, Sheffield S1 4DA, UK. r.m.ara@sheffield.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: The majority of analyses on utility data have used ordinary least 
square (OLS) regressions to explore potential relationships. The aim of this 
paper is to explore the benefits of response mapping onto health dimension 
profiles to generate preference-based utility scores using partial proportional 
odds models (PPOM).
METHODS: Models are estimated using EQ-5D data collected in the Health Survey 
for England and the predicted utility scores are compared with those obtained 
using OLS regressions. Explanatory variables include age, acute illness, 
educational level, general health, deprivation and survey year. The expected 
EQ-5D scores for the PPOMs are obtained by weighting the predicted probabilities 
of scoring one, two or three for the five health dimensions by the corresponding 
preference-weights.
RESULTS: The EQ-5D scores obtained using the probabilities from the PPOMs 
characterise the actual distribution of EQ-5D preference-based utility scores 
more accurately than those obtained from the linear model. The mean absolute and 
mean squared errors in the individual predicted values are also reduced for the 
PPOM models.
CONCLUSIONS: The PPOM models characterise the underlying distributions of the 
EQ-5D data better than models obtained using OLS regressions. Additional 
research exploring the effect of modelling conditional responses and two part 
models could potentially improve the results further.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-0500-7-438
PMCID: PMC4118278
PMID: 25000846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Hong Kong Med J. 2014 Jun;20(3 Suppl 3):5-7.

Economic burden of diabetes related to excess body weight in Hong Kong.

McGhee SM(1), Thomas GN, Schooling CM, Chau J, Wong LC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Medicine, School of Public Health, The University of 
Hong Kong.

PMID: 25001027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Eur Urol. 2014 Nov;66(5):863-71. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2014.06.037. Epub
2014  Jul 4.

Clinical and cost effectiveness of hexaminolevulinate-guided blue-light 
cystoscopy: evidence review and updated expert recommendations.

Witjes JA(1), Babjuk M(2), Gontero P(3), Jacqmin D(4), Karl A(5), Kruck S(6), 
Mariappan P(7), Palou Redorta J(8), Stenzl A(6), van Velthoven R(9), Zaak D(10).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, Nijmegen, 
The Netherlands. Electronic address: fred.witjes@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Department of Urology, Motol Hospital, 2nd Faculty of Medicine, Charles 
University, Prague, Czech Republic.
(3)Department of Urology, San Giovanni Battista Hospital, University of Turin, 
Turin, Italy.
(4)Department of Urology, Strasbourg University Hospital, Strasbourg, France.
(5)Department of Urology, Ludwig Maximilians University, Munich, Germany.
(6)Department of Urology, Eberhard Karls University, Tübingen, Germany.
(7)Department of Urology, Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, UK.
(8)Urologic Oncology Unit, Department of Urology, Puigvert Foundation, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(9)Department of Urology, Jules Bordet Institute, Brussels, Belgium.
(10)Department of Urology, Traunstein Hospital, Traunstein, Germany.

Comment in
    Eur Urol. 2014 Nov;66(5):872-3.

CONTEXT: Non-muscle-invasive bladder cancer (NMIBC) is associated with a high 
recurrence risk, partly because of the persistence of lesions following 
transurethral resection of bladder tumour (TURBT) due to the presence of 
multiple lesions and the difficulty in identifying the exact extent and location 
of tumours using standard white-light cystoscopy (WLC). Hexaminolevulinate (HAL) 
is an optical-imaging agent used with blue-light cystoscopy (BLC) in NMIBC 
diagnosis. Increasing evidence from long-term follow-up confirms the benefits of 
BLC over WLC in terms of increased detection and reduced recurrence rates.
OBJECTIVE: To provide updated expert guidance on the optimal use of HAL-guided 
cystoscopy in clinical practice to improve management of patients with NMIBC, 
based on a review of the most recent data on clinical and cost effectiveness and 
expert input.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: PubMed and conference searches, supplemented by personal 
experience.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Based on published data, it is recommended that BLC be used 
for all patients at initial TURBT to increase lesion detection and improve 
resection quality, thereby reducing recurrence and improving outcomes for 
patients. BLC is particularly useful in patients with abnormal urine cytology 
but no evidence of lesions on WLC, as it can detect carcinoma in situ that is 
difficult to visualise on WLC. In addition, personal experience of the authors 
indicates that HAL-guided BLC can be used as part of routine inpatient 
cystoscopic assessment following initial TURBT to confirm the efficacy of 
treatment and to identify any previously missed or recurrent tumours. Health 
economic modelling indicates that the use of HAL to assist primary TURBT is no 
more expensive than WLC alone and will result in improved quality-adjusted 
life-years and reduced costs over time.
CONCLUSIONS: HAL-guided BLC is a clinically effective and cost-effective tool 
for improving NMIBC detection and management, thereby reducing the burden of 
disease for patients and the health care system.
PATIENT SUMMARY: Blue-light cystoscopy (BLC) helps the urologist identify 
bladder tumours that may be difficult to see using standard white-light 
cystoscopy (WLC). As a result, the amount of tumour that is surgically removed 
is increased, and the risk of tumour recurrence is reduced. Although use of BLC 
means that the initial operation costs more than it would if only WLC were used, 
over time the total costs of managing bladder cancer are reduced because 
patients do not need as many additional operations for recurrent tumours.

Copyright © 2014 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2014.06.037
PMID: 25001887 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. World J Surg. 2015 Apr;39(4):871-8. doi: 10.1007/s00268-014-2678-9.

Innovative bridging of the rural-urban divide: comparison of scope, safety, and 
impact of collaborative rural surgery camps and an urban surgical program.

Belle JM(1), Bang RA, Kelkar D, Østbye T, Lagoo-Deenadayalan SA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Indiana University School of Medicine, 545 Barnhill 
Drive, Indianapolis, IN, 46202, USA, bellej@iupui.edu.

BACKGROUND: In medically under-resourced regions worldwide, non-permanent 
surgery programs or camps have been conducted to expand access to surgical 
services. Surgery camp programs have been reported in rural India, primarily in 
the ophthalmic and obstetric fields; however, the provision of general surgical 
services in these settings is largely unknown.
METHODS: A 12-month retrospective review of non-ambulatory procedures performed 
at a rural hospital surgery camp program and at an urban hospital in 
Maharashtra, India, was completed to characterize relative differences in 
procedural activity, frequency and severity of perioperative complications, and 
to evaluate efficacy of care.
RESULTS: A total of 449 cases performed in rural hospital surgery camps were 
compared with 344 cases performed in an urban hospital during the course of the 
study period. The majority of rural surgical cases were elective and of 
intermediate complexity. Approximately 4% of rural cases were complex-major 
compared to 17% of urban cases. Intraoperative complications occurred in 0.2% 
rural cases compared to 5.5% of urban cases; p = 0.01. Postoperative 
complications were predominantly low grade in both groups. The postoperative 
complication rate was higher among rural surgical patients (43.4%; 23.5%; p < 
0.01), though the Surgical Risk Score was significantly lower in this group (p < 
0. 01). Rural surgery camp activity over 12 months achieved diagnostic and/or 
therapeutic goals in 92.2% of procedures and rendered 1.74-2.69 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) averted per patient.
CONCLUSIONS: Rural general surgery camps can safely and effectively provide a 
wide range of surgical services under appropriate collaborative and clinical 
conditions. Surgery camps may be a safe, temporizing solution to unmet needs 
until substantial gains in rural healthcare are realized.

DOI: 10.1007/s00268-014-2678-9
PMID: 25002242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Appl Environ Microbiol. 2014 Sep;80(18):5623-35. doi: 10.1128/AEM.01268-14.
Epub  2014 Jul 7.

Molecular characterization of three Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. bulgaricus 
phages.

Casey E(1), Mahony J(1), O'Connell-Motherway M(2), Bottacini F(3), Cornelissen 
A(1), Neve H(4), Heller KJ(4), Noben JP(5), Dal Bello F(6), van Sinderen D(7).

Author information:
(1)School of Microbiology, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(2)School of Microbiology, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland Alimentary 
Pharmabiotic Centre, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(3)Alimentary Pharmabiotic Centre, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland.
(4)Department of Microbiology and Biotechnology, Max Rubner-Institut, Kiel, 
Germany.
(5)Hasselt University, Biomedical Research Institute and Transnationale 
Universiteit Limburg, School of Life Sciences, Diepenbeek, Belgium.
(6)Sacco srl, Cadorago, Italy.
(7)School of Microbiology, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland Alimentary 
Pharmabiotic Centre, University College Cork, Cork, Ireland 
d.vansinderen@ucc.ie.

In this study, three phages infecting Lactobacillus delbrueckii subsp. 
bulgaricus, named Ld3, Ld17, and Ld25A, were isolated from whey samples obtained 
from various industrial fermentations. These phages were further characterized 
in a multifaceted approach: (i) biological and physical characterization through 
host range analysis and electron microscopy; (ii) genetic assessment through 
genome analysis; (iii) mass spectrometry analysis of the structural components 
of the phages; and (iv), for one phage, transcriptional analysis by Northern 
hybridization, reverse transcription-PCR, and primer extension. The three 
obtained phage genomes display high levels of sequence identity to each other 
and to genomes of the so-called group b L. delbrueckii phages c5, LL-Ku, and 
phiLdb, where some of the observed differences are believed to be responsible 
for host range variations.

Copyright © 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/AEM.01268-14
PMCID: PMC4178594
PMID: 25002431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Iran J Ped Hematol Oncol. 2014;4(2):42-8. Epub 2014 Apr 20.

Logo therapy effect on anxiety and depression in mothers of children with 
cancer.

Delavari H(1), Nasirian M(2), Baezegar Bafrooei K(3).

Author information:
(1)Departmment of clinical psychology, college of human science, Yazd science 
and research branch, Islamic Azad university, Yazd, Iran.
(2)psychiatrist, Departmment of clinical psychology, college of human science, 
Yazd science and research branch, Islamic Azad university, Yazd, Iran.
(3)Assistant professor, Yazd University, Yazd, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Cancer diagnosis among children can cause high stress and anxiety in 
parents, and they may lose their life expectancy. The present study investigated 
the effectiveness of Logo therapy on anxiety and depression among mothers of 
children with cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This study was conducted by a semi-pilot method using 
pre-test and post-test with a control experimental group. Therapy sessions were 
held during 9 sessions of Logo therapy training for 90 minutes. The participants 
of this study were selected among 30 mothers of children with cancer and using 
sampling method in Yazd hospitals. The participants divided randomly into two 
groups: experimental and control. Participants in both experimental and control 
group completed questionnaires on Beck Anxiety Inventory and Beck Depression 
Inventory before and after training.
RESULTS: The results showed that the index of depression and anxiety in control 
and experimental groups are 32.3, 6.63, 7.4 and 6.75, respectively. So, the 
level among the experimental group has been decreased after intervention of 
Logotherapy training and a significant difference occurred in the pre-post test 
stages. The results showed that Logo Therapy has a significant effect in 
reducing anxiety and depression among mothers of children with cancer (p<0.05).
CONCLUSION: Regarding the efficiency of this approach to reduce anxiety and 
depression among mothers, this treatment is recommended to be practiced beside 
other cancer therapies, so they can practice the treatment process with a better 
mood and mentality.

PMCID: PMC4083198
PMID: 25002923


719. Rare Dis. 2013 Dec 18;1:e27475. doi: 10.4161/rdis.27475. eCollection 2013.

Alkaptonuria.

Mistry JB(1), Bukhari M(2), Taylor AM(1).

Author information:
(1)Lancaster Medical School; Faculty of Health & Medicine; Lancaster, UK.
(2)University Hospitals of Morecambe Bay NHS Foundation Trust; Royal Lancaster 
Infirmary; Lancaster, UK.

Alkaptonuria (AKU) is a rare disorder of autosomal recessive inheritance. It is 
caused by a mutation in a gene that results in the accumulation of homogentisic 
acid (HGA). Characteristically, the excess HGA means sufferers pass dark urine, 
which upon standing turns black. This is a feature present from birth. Over time 
patients develop other manifestations of AKU, due to deposition of HGA in 
collagenous tissues, namely ochronosis and ochronotic osteoarthropathy.   
Although this condition does not reduce life expectancy, it significantly 
affects quality of life. The natural history of this condition is becoming 
better understood, despite gaps in knowledge. Clinical assessment of the 
condition has also improved along with the development of a potentially 
disease-modifying therapy. Furthermore, recent developments in AKU research have 
led to new understanding of the disease, and further study of the AKU 
arthropathy has the potential to influence therapy in the management of 
osteoarthritis.

DOI: 10.4161/rdis.27475
PMCID: PMC3978898
PMID: 25003018


720. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 8;9(7):e102122. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0102122. 
eCollection 2014.

Comparing cutaneous research funded by the National Institute of Arthritis and 
Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases with 2010 Global Burden of Disease results.

Karimkhani C(1), Boyers LN(2), Margolis DJ(3), Naghavi M(4), Hay RJ(5), Williams 
HC(6), Naldi L(7), Coffeng LE(4), Weinstock MA(8), Dunnick CA(9), Pederson 
H(10), Vos T(4), Murray CJ(4), Dellavalle RP(11).

Author information:
(1)College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, New York, New York, 
United States of America.
(2)School of Medicine, Georgetown University, Washington, District of Columbia, 
United States of America.
(3)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology and Dermatology, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania, United States of America.
(4)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, United States of America.
(5)Department of Dermatology, Kings College Hospital NHS Trust, London, United 
Kingdom.
(6)Centre of Evidence Based Dermatology, University of Nottingham, Nottingham, 
United Kingdom.
(7)Department of Dermatology, Azienda Ospedaliera papa Giovanni XXIII, Bergamo, 
Italy.
(8)Dermatoepidemiology Unit, Veterans Affairs Medical Center Providence, 
Providence, Rhode Island, United States of America; Department of Dermatology, 
Rode Island Hospital, Providence, Rhode Island, United States of America; 
Departments of Dermatology and Epidemiology, Brown University, Providence, Rhode 
Island, United States of America.
(9)Department of Dermatology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Aurora, Colorado, United States of America; Dermatology Service, Unites States 
Department of Veterans Affairs, Eastern Colorado Health Care System, Denver, 
Colorado, United States of America.
(10)University of Colorado School of Medicine, Aurora, Colorado, United States 
of America.
(11)Department of Dermatology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Aurora, Colorado, United States of America; Dermatology Service, Unites States 
Department of Veterans Affairs, Eastern Colorado Health Care System, Denver, 
Colorado, United States of America; Department of Epidemiology, Colorado School 
of Public Health, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Aurora, 
Colorado, United States of America.

IMPORTANCE: Disease burden data helps guide research prioritization.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the extent to which grants issued by the National 
Institute of Arthritis and Musculoskeletal and Skin Diseases (NIAMS) reflect 
disease burden, measured by disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) from Global 
Burden of Disease (GBD) 2010 project.
DESIGN: Two investigators independently assessed 15 skin conditions studied by 
GBD 2010 in the NIAMS database for grants issued in 2013. The 15 skin diseases 
were matched to their respective DALYs from GBD 2010.
SETTING: The United States NIAMS database and GBD 2010 skin condition disability 
data.
MAIN OUTCOME(S) AND MEASURE(S): Relationship of NIAMS grant database topic 
funding with percent total GBD 2010 DALY and DALY rank for 15 skin conditions.
RESULTS: During fiscal year 2013, 1,443 NIAMS grants were issued at a total 
value of $424 million. Of these grants, 17.7% covered skin topics. Of the total 
skin disease funding, 82% (91 grants) were categorized as "general cutaneous 
research." Psoriasis, leprosy, and "other skin and subcutaneous diseases" (ie; 
immunobullous disorders, vitiligo, and hidradenitis suppurativa) were 
over-represented when funding was compared with disability. Conversely, 
cellulitis, decubitus ulcer, urticaria, acne vulgaris, viral skin diseases, 
fungal skin diseases, scabies, and melanoma were under-represented. Conditions 
for which disability and funding appeared well-matched were dermatitis, squamous 
and basal cell carcinoma, pruritus, bacterial skin diseases, and alopecia 
areata.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Degree of representation in NIAMS is partly 
correlated with DALY metrics. Grant funding was well-matched with disability 
metrics for five of the 15 studied skin diseases, while two skin diseases were 
over-represented and seven were under-represented. Global burden estimates 
provide increasingly transparent and important information for investigating and 
prioritizing national research funding allocations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0102122
PMCID: PMC4086973
