
765. J Cell Sci. 2014 Jul 15;127(Pt 14):2999-3004. doi: 10.1242/jcs.151043.

Myelination at a glance.

Snaidero N(1), Simons M(2).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute of Experimental Medicine, Cellular Neuroscience, 
Hermann-Rein-Strasse. 3, 37075, Göttingen, Germany Department of Neurology, 
University of Göttingen, Robert-Koch-Strasse. 40, 37075, Göttingen, Germany.
(2)Max Planck Institute of Experimental Medicine, Cellular Neuroscience, 
Hermann-Rein-Strasse. 3, 37075, Göttingen, Germany Department of Neurology, 
University of Göttingen, Robert-Koch-Strasse. 40, 37075, Göttingen, Germany 
msimons@gwdg.de.

The myelin sheath is a plasma membrane extension that is laid down in regularly 
spaced segments along axons of the nervous system. This process involves 
extensive changes in oligodendrocyte cell shape and membrane architecture. In 
this Cell Science at a Glance article and accompanying poster, we provide a 
model of how myelin of the central nervous system is wrapped around axons to 
form a tightly compacted, multilayered membrane structure. This model may not 
only explain how myelin is generated during brain development, but could also 
help us to understand myelin remodeling in adult life, which might serve as a 
form of plasticity for the fine-tuning of neuronal networks.

© 2014. Published by The Company of Biologists Ltd.

DOI: 10.1242/jcs.151043
PMID: 25024457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


766. Nursing. 2014 Aug;44(8):18. doi: 10.1097/01.NURSE.0000451536.40340.99.

It's about quality of life, not quantity.

Glennon R(1).

Author information:
(1)Rian Glennon is a clinical associate at Abington Memorial Hospital in 
Abington, Pa. She's currently enrolled in the hospital's Dixon School of Nursing 
to earn her BSN.

DOI: 10.1097/01.NURSE.0000451536.40340.99
PMID: 25025246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


767. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Jun;107(3):1045-54. doi: 10.1603/ec13468.

Demographic analysis of the fitness of Problepsis superans (Lepidoptera: 
Geometridae) feeding on three ligustrum (Lamiales: Oleaceae) species.

Hu LX, Chen Y, He ZS, Zou ZW, Xia B.

Using the age-stage, two-sex life table, the effects of three ligustrum species, 
Ligustrum x vicaryi Hort., Ligustrum quihoui Carrière, and Ligustrum lucidum 
Aiton, on the fitness of Problepsis superans (Butler, 1885) (Lepidoptera: 
Geometridae) were assayed by considering life table parameters of P. superans at 
27 +/- 1 degrees C, 70 +/- 5% relative humidity, and a photoperiod of 16:8 (L: 
D) h. The means and SEs of population parameters were calculated using the 
jackknife and bootstrap methods. The total developmental time of larval stage of 
P. superans on L. x vicaryi was significantly shorter than that on L. x vicaryi 
and L. quihoui, whereas higher fecundity was observed on L. x vicaryi. The 
highest value of the finite rate of increase was observed on L. x vicaryi. The 
intrinsic rate of increase of P. superans on L. x vicaryi, L. quihoui, and L. 
lucidum, was 0.147 +/- 0.004, 0.130 +/- 0.004, and 0.112 +/- 0.005, 
respectively, which differed significantly among the three ligustrum species. 
The net reproductive rate varied from 122.8 +/- 24.7 female offspring on L. 
lucidum to 242.2 +/- 36.2 female offspring on L. x vicaryi. The lowest mean 
generation time was observed on L. x vicaryi. The gross reproductive rate of P. 
superans on the three ligustrum species did not significantly differ. Based on 
growth and population parameters, the suitability of the three ligustrum species 
to P. superans is ranked from high to low in the order as L. x vicaryi, L. 
quihoui, and L. lucidum.

DOI: 10.1603/ec13468
PMID: 25026663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


768. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Jun;107(3):1069-75. doi: 10.1603/ec13263.

A comparative life-table analysis of Sipha flava (Hemiptera: Aphididae) on two 
biofuel hosts, Miscanthus x giganteus and Saccharum spp.

Pallipparambil GR, Cha G, Gray ME.

Among the insects reported in biofuel crops, the yellow sugarcane aphid, Sipha 
flava (Forbes), is a potential pest of giant miscanthus, Miscanthus x giganteus 
Greef et Deu ex Hodkinson et Renvoize (M x g) and energy cane 'L79-1002', 
Saccharum spp. L. We studied the biology of S. flava on M x g and energy cane 
and estimated the development period, fecundity, longevity, intrinsic rate of 
increase, doubling time, reproductive value, and survivorship curves. To 
demonstrate the host suitability in a susceptible species, we studied the aphid 
life table on sorghum 'PL 18200,' Sorghum bicolor (L.) Moench. Life-table 
information was recorded under greenhouse conditions on the host plants. Our 
results suggested that both M x g and energy cane are suitable hosts for S. 
flava. We observed similar aphid development period on both hosts. Life-table 
estimates including longevity and fecundity suggested that M x g is a more 
suitable host for the aphid than energy cane. The intrinsic rate of increase for 
S. flava was lower on energy cane (0.231) than on M x g (0.258).

DOI: 10.1603/ec13263
PMID: 25026666 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


769. MMW Fortschr Med. 2014 Jun 12;156 Suppl 1:12-3.

[From fatal epidemic to chronic illness. How AIDS became manageable].

[Article in German]

Bischoff A.

PMID: 25026846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


770. BMC Public Health. 2014 Jul 15;14:723. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-723.

The effect of smoking on the duration of life with and without disability, 
Belgium 1997-2011.

Van Oyen H(1), Berger N, Nusselder W, Charafeddine R, Jagger C, Cambois E, 
Robine JM, Demarest S.

Author information:
(1)Unit of Survey, Life Styles and Chronic Diseases, Directorate Public Health 
and Surveillance, Scientific Institute of Public Health, Brussels, Belgium. 
hvanoyen@wiv-isp.be.

BACKGROUND: Smoking is the single most important health threat yet there is no 
consistency as to whether non-smokers experience a compression of years lived 
with disability compared to (ex-)smokers. The objectives of the manuscript are 
(1) to assess the effect of smoking on the average years lived without 
disability (Disability Free Life Expectancy (DFLE)) and with disability 
(Disability Life Expectancy (DLE)) and (2) to estimate the extent to which these 
effects are due to better survival or reduced disability in never smokers.
METHODS: Data on disability and mortality were provided by the Belgian Health 
Interview Survey 1997 and 2001 and a 10 years mortality follow-up of the survey 
participants. Disability was defined as difficulties in activities of daily 
living (ADL), in mobility, in continence or in sensory (vision, hearing) 
functions. Poisson and multinomial logistic regression models were fitted to 
estimate the probabilities of death and the prevalence of disability by age, 
gender and smoking status adjusted for socioeconomic position. The Sullivan 
method was used to estimate DFLE and DLE at age 30. The contribution of 
mortality and of disability to smoking related differences in DFLE and DLE was 
assessed using decomposition methods.
RESULTS: Compared to never smokers, ex-smokers have a shorter life expectancy 
(LE) and DFLE but the number of years lived with disability is somewhat larger. 
For both sexes, the higher disability prevalence is the main contributing factor 
to the difference in DFLE and DLE. Smokers have a shorter LE, DFLE and DLE 
compared to never smokers. Both higher mortality and higher disability 
prevalence contribute to the difference in DFLE, but mortality is more important 
among males. Although both male and female smokers experience higher disability 
prevalence, their higher mortality outweighs their disability disadvantage 
resulting in a shorter DLE.
CONCLUSION: Smoking kills and shortens both life without and life with 
disability. Smoking related disability can however not be ignored, given its 
contribution to the excess years with disability especially in younger age 
groups.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-723
PMCID: PMC4223416
PMID: 25026981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


771. JAMA. 2014 Jul 16;312(3):221. doi: 10.1001/jama.2014.8845.

Statin use may stop when illness is terminal, study says.

Voelker R.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2014.8845
PMID: 25027124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


772. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2014;18(14):1985-9.

Evaluation of chronic rhinosinusitis management using the SNOT-22 in adult 
cystic fibrosis patients.

Savastano V(1), Bertin S, Vittori T, Tripodi C, Magliulo G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, and Organi di Senso Department; "Sapienza" 
University, Rome, Italy. giuseppemagliuloorl@yahoo.com.

OBJECTIVES: Sinonasal disease (SND) is a common finding in subjects with Cystic 
Fibrosis (CF). Even though it does not play a key role in the life expectancy of 
these patients, it increases the morbidity rate of CF, with deterioration of the 
quality of life and of general health status. The aim of this study is the 
evaluation of the impact of sinonasal disease and Extensive Endoscopic Sinus 
Surgery (eESS) on the quality of life (QOL) of CF patients by means of the 22 
item Sino-Nasal Outcome Test (SNOT-22) and define if there is a correlation 
between SNOT-22 and the Lund-Mackay score.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We performed a prospective study in 33 CF patients with 
medically refractory SND. The extent of polyposis was graded both endoscopically 
and on computed tomography images in accordance with the Lund-Mackay score. All 
patients underwent eESS. The SNOT was administered in order to assess the 
quality of life related to SND both before surgery and during follow-up at 6 
months, 1 year and 2 years postoperatively.
RESULTS: The SNOT-22 and Lund-Mackay score showed a remarkable mean improvement 
during follow-up. The differences between the initial examination and last score 
were significant (p < 0.001), but there was no statistic correlation between 
SNOT-22 and Lund-Mackay.
CONCLUSIONS: More attention should be paid to sinonasal symptoms in CF patients 
and SNOT-22 is a simple and effective tool for this purpose. This score is also 
important for indicating the outcome of the eESS procedure. In all patients SNOT 
showed a significant improvement in QoL.

PMID: 25027336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


773. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2014;18(14):2084-7.

Evaluation of genotyping methods and the relative cost of pharmacogenomics.

De Monaco A(1), Berretta M, Pugliese S, Valente D, Ciaffarafa S, Di Francia R.

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Molecular Haematology, National Cancer Institute, Fondazione 
"G. Pascale" IRCCS, Naples, Italy. raffaele.difrancia@istitutotumori.na.it.

Recently, several methods to assess the quality of cost-effectiveness, 
cost-utility and cost-benefit in the pharmacogenomic field have become 
available. A relevant example is the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence (NICE). NICE forms a diverse clinical Advisory committee, which 
stimulates Pharma and Academic communities to produce a robust set of data, 
including the design and data source, for economic models of personalized 
healthcare. Personalized medicine includes genomic tests of each patients and 
their disease into their clinical treatments, so as minimize toxicity and 
maximize benefits. It is well known that Pharmacogenomics (PG) tests, performed 
before drug treatment, lower overall medical costs and provide higher quality of 
life and longer life expectancy. In this issue relative costs of genotyping 
methods and platforms, were evaluated by "manually cured criteria" due to lack 
of specific guidelines. Finally, with the progress made in this scenario over 
the next five years, health decision-making may able to accelerating the 
translation of genetic technologies into routine clinical laboratory.

PMID: 25027351 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


774. Phys Life Rev. 2014 Sep;11(3):389-90. doi: 10.1016/j.plrev.2014.07.004. Epub
 2014 Jul 8.

Learning, epigenetics, and computation: an extension on Fitch's proposal. 
Comment on "Toward a computational framework for cognitive biology: unifying 
approaches from cognitive neuroscience and comparative cognition" by W. Tecumseh 
Fitch.

Okanoya K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo 153-8902, Japan.

Comment in
    Phys Life Rev. 2014 Sep;11(3):391-9.

Comment on
    Phys Life Rev. 2014 Sep;11(3):329-64.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plrev.2014.07.004
PMID: 25027505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


775. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2014 Oct;12(5):471-6. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-014-0112-y.

Ethical objections against including life-extension costs in cost-effectiveness 
analysis: a consistent approach.

Gandjour A(1), Müller D.

Author information:
(1)Frankfurt School of Finance and Management, Sonnemannstr. 9-11, 60314, 
Frankfurt am Main, Germany, a.gandjour@fs.de.

One of the major ethical concerns regarding cost-effectiveness analysis in 
health care has been the inclusion of life-extension costs ("it is cheaper to 
let people die"). For this reason, many analysts have opted to rule out 
life-extension costs from the analysis. However, surprisingly little has been 
written in the health economics literature regarding this ethical concern and 
the resulting practice. The purpose of this work was to present a framework and 
potential solution for ethical objections against life-extension costs. This 
work found three levels of ethical concern: (i) with respect to all 
life-extension costs (disease-related and -unrelated); (ii) with respect to 
disease-unrelated costs only; and (iii) regarding disease-unrelated costs plus 
disease-related costs not influenced by the intervention. Excluding all 
life-extension costs for ethical reasons would require-for reasons of 
consistency-a simultaneous exclusion of savings from reducing morbidity. At the 
other extreme, excluding only disease-unrelated life-extension costs for ethical 
reasons would require-again for reasons of consistency-the exclusion of health 
gains due to treatment of unrelated diseases. Therefore, addressing ethical 
concerns regarding the inclusion of life-extension costs necessitates 
fundamental changes in the calculation of cost effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-014-0112-y
PMID: 25027546 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


776. BMC Oral Health. 2014 Jul 16;14:90. doi: 10.1186/1472-6831-14-90.

The potential of the Child Health Utility 9D Index as an outcome measure for 
child dental health.

Page LA(1), Thomson WM, Marshman Z, Stevens KJ.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Dentistry, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand. 
lyndie.fosterpage@otago.ac.nz.

BACKGROUND: The Child Health Utility 9D (CHU9D) is a relatively new generic 
child health-related quality of life measure (HRQoL)-designed to be completed by 
children-which enables the calculation of utility values.The aim is to 
investigate the use of the CHU9D Index as an outcome measure for child dental 
health in New Zealand.
METHOD: A survey was conducted of children aged between 6 and 9 years attending 
for routine dental examinations in community clinics in Dunedin (New Zealand) in 
2012. The CHU9D, a HRQoL, was used, along with the Child Perceptions 
Questionnaire (CPQ), a validated oral health-related quality of life (OHRQoL) 
measure. Socio-demographic characteristics (sex, age, ethnicity and household 
deprivation) were recorded. Dental therapists undertook routine clinical 
examinations, with charting recorded for each child for decayed, missing and 
filled deciduous teeth (dmft) at the d3 level.
RESULTS: One hundred and forty 6-to-9-year-olds (50.7% female) took part in the 
study (93.3% participation rate). The mean d3mft was 2.4 (SD = 2.6; range 0 to 
9). Both CHU9D and CPQ detected differences in the impact of dental caries, with 
scores in the expected direction: children who presented with caries had higher 
scores (indicating poorer OHRQoL) than those who were free of apparent caries. 
Children with no apparent caries had a higher mean CHU9D score than those with 
caries (indicating better HRQoL). The difference for the CPQ was statistically 
significant, but for CHU9D the difference was not significant. When the two 
indices were compared, there was a significant difference in mean CHU9D scores 
by the prevalence of CPQ and subscale impacts with children experiencing no 
impacts having mean CHU9D scores closer to 1.0 (representing perfect health).
CONCLUSION: The CHU9D may be useful in dental research. Further exploration in 
samples with different caries experience is required. The use of the CHU9D in 
child oral health studies will enable the calculation of quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs) for use in economic evaluation.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6831-14-90
PMCID: PMC4118790
PMID: 25027722 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


777. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 16;9(7):e101649. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101649. 
eCollection 2014.

Seasonal variation in female mate choice and operational sex ratio in wild 
populations of an annual fish, Austrolebias reicherti.

Passos C(1), Tassino B(1), Reyes F(1), Rosenthal GG(2).

Author information:
(1)Sección Etología, Facultad de Ciencias, Universidad de la República, 
Montevideo, Uruguay.
(2)Department of Biology, Texas A&M University, College Station, Texas, United 
States of America; Centro de Investigaciones Científicas de las Huastecas 
"Aguazarca," Calnali, Hidalgo, México.

The intensity of mating competition and the potential benefits for female of 
mating with certain males can be influenced by several extrinsic factors, such 
that behavioral decisions can be highly context-dependent. Short-lived species 
with a single reproductive season are a unique model to study context-sensitive 
mating decisions. Through exhaustive sampling in the field and simultaneous 
choice tests in the laboratory, we evaluated operational sex ratio (OSR) and 
female mate choice at the beginning and end of the reproductive season in the 
annual killifish Austrolebias reicherti. We found seasonal change in both OSR 
and female mate choice. At the start of the reproductive season the OSR did not 
deviate from parity, and females preferred larger males. Later in the 
reproductive season, while the proportion of males in the ponds decreased, 
females became unselective with respect to male size. The particular biological 
cycle of annual killifish, where both life expectancy and mating opportunities 
decline sharply over a short timescale, could account for the seasonal change in 
female choice. Reduction in choosiness could arise from diminished reproductive 
prospects due to a decline in male availability. Moreover, as the end of the 
season approaches, any benefits of choosiness are presumably reduced: a female's 
fitness will be higher if she mates with any male than if she forgoes 
reproduction and dies. Future work will disentangle the mechanisms underlying 
seasonal changes in mating preferences, notably direct responses to demographic 
factors, environmental cues, or intrinsic changes during development.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0101649
PMCID: PMC4100733
PMID: 25029019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


778. Bundesgesundheitsblatt Gesundheitsforschung Gesundheitsschutz. 2014 
Sep;57(9):1022-30. doi: 10.1007/s00103-014-2011-7.

[Gender medicine. Sex- and gender-specific aspects of clinical medicine].

[Article in German]

Kautzky-Willer A(1).

Author information:
(1)Endokrinologie und Stoffwechsel, Gender Medicine Unit, Universitätsklinik für 
Innere Medizin III, Medizinische Universität Wien, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, 1090, 
Wien, Österreich, alexandra.kautzky-willer@meduniwien.ac.at.

Gender medicine studies sex- and gender-based differences in the development and 
prevention of diseases, the awareness and presentation of symptoms, and the 
effectiveness of therapy. Gender medicine is part of personalized medicine, 
considering differences in biological and psychosocial factors individually. 
There are differences in genes, chromosomes, hormones, and metabolism as well as 
differences in culture, environment, and society. Lifelong interactions between 
physical and psychosocial factors will influence the health and ill-health of 
men and women in different ways. Epigenetic modifications provide evidence of 
the impact of environment and lifestyle during vulnerable phases on biological 
processes, effecting future generations. Maternal lifestyle and environmental 
factors during pregnancy can impact the health of offspring in later life 
already in utero in a sex-specific way. Pain, stress, and coping styles differ 
between men and women. Women experience more dramatic physical changes during 
their lifetime, which are associated with specific burdens and psychosocial 
alterations. Women with multiple roles and responsibilities suffering from 
stress develop depression more frequently. However, men are often not diagnosed 
and treated appropriately in cases of depression or osteoporosis, diseases that 
are typically considered "female." There are prominent differences between men 
and women in medicine regarding the immune system, inflammation, and 
noncommunicable diseases such as obesity, type 2 diabetes, hypertension, and 
cardiovascular disease. Women experience more often autoimmune diseases and 
suffer more frequently from (chronic) pain, neurodegenerative changes, and 
functional disabilities. Men have shorter life expectancy but relatively more 
healthy years of life, which is in greater part ascribed to psychosocial 
determinants. State-of-the-art clinical medicine comprises individual risk 
factors based on sex- and gender-sensitive health programs in order to improve 
the health-related quality of life for men and women.

DOI: 10.1007/s00103-014-2011-7
PMID: 25030232 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


779. Eur J Nucl Med Mol Imaging. 2014 Dec;41(12):2281-90. doi: 
10.1007/s00259-014-2851-2. Epub 2014 Jul 17.

The number of 131I therapy courses needed to achieve complete remission is an 
indicator of prognosis in patients with differentiated thyroid carcinoma.

Thies ED(1), Tanase K, Maeder U, Luster M, Buck AK, Hänscheid H, Reiners C, 
Verburg FA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany.

PURPOSE: To assess the risk of differentiated thyroid cancer (DTC) recurrence, 
DTC-related mortality and life expectancy in relation to the number of courses 
of (131)I therapy (RIT) and cumulative (131)I activities required to achieve 
complete remission (CR).
METHODS: The study was a database review of 1,229 patients with DTC, 333 without 
and 896 with CR (negative TSH-stimulated thyroglobulin and negative (131)I 
diagnostic whole-body scintigraphy) after one or more courses of RIT.
RESULTS: The median follow-up was 9.0 years (range 0.1 - 31.8 years) after CR. 
Recurrence rates at 5 years, 10 years and the end of follow-up were 1.0 ± 0.3%, 
4.0 ± 0.7 % and 6.2 ± 1.1 %, and DTC-related mortality was 0.1 ± 0.1%, 0.5 ± 
0.3% and 3.4 ± 1.1%, respectively. Recurrence rates also increased with an 
increasing number of RIT courses required (p = 0.001). DTC-related mortality 
increased from four RIT courses. In patients with CR after one RIT course, there 
were no differences in recurrence or DTC-related mortality rates between 
low-risk and high-risk patients. In patients requiring two RIT courses these 
rates remain elevated in high-risk patients. Recurrence and DTC-related 
mortality rates were only significantly elevated in those requiring a cumulative 
activity over 22.2 GBq (600 mCi) from multiple RIT courses for CR. Regardless of 
the number of RIT courses or activity needed, life expectancy was not 
significantly lowered.
CONCLUSION: If more than one RIT course is needed to achieve CR, higher 
recurrence and DTC-related mortality rates are observed, especially in high-risk 
patients. Patients requiring >22.2 GBq (131)I for CR should be followed in the 
same way as patients in whom CR is never reached as long-term mortality rates 
are similar.

DOI: 10.1007/s00259-014-2851-2
PMID: 25030619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


780. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2014 Jul 16;106(8):dju160. doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju160.
Print  2014 Aug.

Survival outcomes after contralateral prophylactic mastectomy: a decision 
analysis.

Portschy PR(1), Kuntz KM(1), Tuttle TM(2).

Author information:
(1)Affiliations of authors: Department of Surgery (PRP, TMT) and Division of 
Health Policy and Management (KMK), University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN.
(2)Affiliations of authors: Department of Surgery (PRP, TMT) and Division of 
Health Policy and Management (KMK), University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN. 
tuttl006@umn.edu.

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2014 Aug;106(8). pii: dju175. doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju175.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015 Mar;107(3). doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju507.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015 Mar;107(3). doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju508.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015 Apr;107(4). pii: djv092. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djv092.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015 Apr;107(4). pii: djv093. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djv093.

BACKGROUND: Contralateral prophylactic mastectomy (CPM) rates have substantially 
increased in recent years and may reflect an exaggerated perceived benefit from 
the procedure. The objective of this study was to evaluate the magnitude of the 
survival benefit of CPM for women with unilateral breast cancer.
METHODS: We developed a Markov model to simulate survival outcomes after CPM and 
no CPM among women with stage I or II breast cancer without a BRCA mutation. 
Probabilities for developing contralateral breast cancer (CBC), dying from CBC, 
dying from primary breast cancer, and age-specific mortality rates were 
estimated from published studies. We estimated life expectancy (LE) gain, 
20-year overall survival, and disease-free survival with each intervention 
strategy among cohorts of women defined by age, estrogen receptor (ER) status, 
and stage of cancer.
RESULTS: Predicted LE gain from CPM ranged from 0.13 to 0.59 years for women 
with stage I breast cancer and 0.08 to 0.29 years for those with stage II breast 
cancer. Absolute 20-year survival differences ranged from 0.56% to 0.94% for 
women with stage I breast cancer and 0.36% to 0.61% for women with stage II 
breast cancer. CPM was more beneficial among younger women, stage I, and 
ER-negative breast cancer. Sensitivity analyses yielded a maximum 20-year 
survival difference with CPM of only 1.45%.
CONCLUSIONS: The absolute 20-year survival benefit from CPM was less than 1% 
among all age, ER status, and cancer stage groups. Estimates of LE gains and 
survival differences derived from decision models may provide more realistic 
expectations of CPM.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/dju160
PMID: 25031308 [Indexed for MEDLINE]781. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2014 Jul 16;106(8):dju191. doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju191.
Print  2014 Aug.

Higher mammography screening costs without appreciable clinical benefit: the 
case of digital mammography.

Kerlikowske K(1), Hubbard R(2), Tosteson AN(2).

Author information:
(1)Affiliations of authors: Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics (KK) 
and General Internal Medicine Section, Department of Veterans Affairs (KK), 
University of California, San Francisco, CA; Group Health Research Institute, 
Group Health Cooperative, Seattle, WA (RH); The Dartmouth Institute for Health 
Policy and Clinical Practice and Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Geisel School of 
Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon, NH (ANAT). Karla.Kerlikowske@ucsf.edu.
(2)Affiliations of authors: Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics (KK) 
and General Internal Medicine Section, Department of Veterans Affairs (KK), 
University of California, San Francisco, CA; Group Health Research Institute, 
Group Health Cooperative, Seattle, WA (RH); The Dartmouth Institute for Health 
Policy and Clinical Practice and Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Geisel School of 
Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon, NH (ANAT).

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/dju191
PMID: 25031310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


782. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2014 Jul 16;96(14):1185-1191. doi:
10.2106/JBJS.M.01126.

Trends in the Incidence and In-Hospital Outcomes of Elective Major Orthopaedic 
Surgery in Patients Eighty Years of Age and Older in the United States from 2000 
to 2009.

Yoshihara H(1), Yoneoka D(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, NYU Hospital for Joint Diseases, 301 East 
17th Street, New York, NY 10003. E-mail address: hiroyoshihara55@yahoo.co.jp.
(2)Department of Statistical Science, School of Advanced Sciences, The Graduate 
University for Advanced Studies, 10-3 Midori-machi, Tachikawa, Tokyo 190-8562, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: Although life expectancy continues to increase worldwide and 
advances occur in surgical techniques and medical treatment, the chronological 
age limit for patients to undergo elective major orthopaedic procedures remains 
a controversial subject. The purpose of this study was to examine the trends in 
the incidence and in-hospital outcomes of elective major orthopaedic surgery in 
patients eighty years of age and older in the United States as a whole.
METHODS: ICD-9-CM (International Classification of Diseases, 9th Revision, 
Clinical Modification) codes were used to identify patients at least eighty 
years of age in the Nationwide Inpatient Sample who underwent spinal fusion, 
total hip arthroplasty, or total knee arthroplasty from 2000 to 2009. 
Demographic data regarding the patient and health-care system were retrieved and 
analyzed.
RESULTS: From 2000 to 2009, there were increasing trends in the age-adjusted 
incidence of spinal fusion, total hip arthroplasty, and total knee arthroplasty 
in patients at least eighty years of age (rate per 100,000 per year, 40 to 102 
for spinal fusion, 181 to 257 for total hip arthroplasty, and 300 to 477 for 
total knee arthroplasty; p ≤ 0.001 for each). The overall in-hospital 
complication rate remained stable over time for spinal fusion and total knee 
arthroplasty and increased for total hip arthroplasty (9.0% to 10.3%, p = 
0.008). The in-hospital mortality rate decreased over time (1.1% to 0.6% for 
spinal fusion, 0.5% to 0.3% for total hip arthroplasty, and 0.3% to 0.2% for 
total knee arthroplasty; p < 0.05 for each). The overall in-hospital 
complication and mortality rates of patients at least eighty years of age were 
significantly higher than those of patients sixty-five to seventy-nine years of 
age (p < 0.001 for both).
CONCLUSIONS: During the previous decade, the rates of elective major orthopaedic 
surgical procedures in patients at least eighty years of age increased in the 
U.S. The in-hospital mortality rates decreased, whereas the overall in-hospital 
complication rates remained stable or increased. The overall event rates were 
low, and these elective procedures could be offered to very elderly patients.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Prognostic Level IV. See Instructions for Authors for a 
complete description of levels of evidence.

Copyright © 2014 by The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, Incorporated.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.M.01126
PMID: 25031373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


783. Med Mycol. 2014 Oct;52(7):706-14. doi: 10.1093/mmy/myu037. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

Quality of life, disability scores, and distress index in fungal rhinosinusitis.

Srivastava RM(1), Rijuneeta(2), Gupta AK(1), Patro SK(1), Avasthi A(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Post Graduate Institute 
of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology, Head and Neck Surgery, Post Graduate Institute 
of Medical Education and Research, Chandigarh, India rijuneeta@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, Post Graduate Institute of Medical Education and 
Research, Chandigarh, India.

Our goal was to determine quality of life (QOL), disability, and distress in the 
day-to-day lives of patients suffering from fungal rhinosinusitis (FRS) based on 
a prospective questionnaire. The study included 125 patients suffering from FRS, 
excluding those with acute fulminant FRS and any other comorbid illness. The 
data were compared with data for 50 age- and sex-matched controls who did not 
have any other chronic illness and obtained outpatient services from the 
Department of Otolaryngology and Head and Neck Surgery of our institute. 
Analysis showed that patients with FRS had worse QOL, with an average score of 
87.34 compared with 94.15 for the control group. QOL score further decreased to 
85.31 for patients with extensive disease that included intracranial or 
intraorbital extension and to 71.1 in those with recurrent disease. Patients 
showed significant disability and had decreased work efficiency in disability 
parameters. Distress among these patients was also greater and further increased 
in those with extensive disease or recurrence. We conclude that patients with 
FRS have worse QOL, more disability, and more distress compared with age- and 
sex-matched controls. This issue needs to be addressed while treating cases of 
FRS.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
International Society for Human and Animal Mycology. All rights reserved. For 
permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/mmy/myu037
PMID: 25031427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


784. J Hum Kinet. 2014 Apr 9;40:121-8. doi: 10.2478/hukin-2014-0014. eCollection
2014  Mar 27.

Short-term performance effects of three different low-volume strength-training 
programmes in college male soccer players.

Brito J(1), Vasconcellos F(2), Oliveira J(3), Krustrup P(4), Rebelo A(5).

Author information:
(1)National Sports Medicine Programme, Excellence in Football Project, Aspetar - 
Qatar Orthopaedic and Sports Medicine Hospital, Qatar. ; Centre of Research, 
Education, Innovation and Intervention in Sport, Faculty of Sport, University of 
Porto, Portugal.
(2)Centre of Research, Education, Innovation and Intervention in Sport, Faculty 
of Sport, University of Porto, Portugal. ; Rio de Janeiro State University, 
Brazil.
(3)Research Centre in Physical Activity, Health and Leisure, Faculty of Sport, 
University of Porto, Portugal.
(4)Sport and Health Sciences, St. Luke's Campus, College of Life and 
Environmental Sciences, University of Exeter, United Kingdom. ; Department of 
Nutrition, Exercise and Sports, Section of Human Physiology, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(5)Centre of Research, Education, Innovation and Intervention in Sport, Faculty 
of Sport, University of Porto, Portugal.

This study aimed to analyse the short-term performance effects of three 
in-season low-volume strength-training programmes in college male soccer 
players. Fifty-seven male college soccer players (age: 20.3±1.6 years) were 
randomly assigned to a resistance-training group (n=12), plyometric training 
group (n=12), complex training group (n=12), or a control group (n=21). In the 
mid-season, players underwent a 9-week strength-training programme, with two 20 
min training sessions per week. Short-term effects on strength, sprint, agility, 
and vertical jump abilities were measured. All training groups increased 1-RM 
squat (range, 17.2-24.2%), plantar flexion (29.1-39.6%), and knee extension 
(0.5-22.2%) strength compared with the control group (p<0.05). The 
resistance-training group increased concentric peak torque of the knee extensor 
muscles by 9.9-13.7%, and changes were greater compared with the control group 
(p<0.05). The complex training group presented major increments (11.7%) in 
eccentric peak torque of the knee flexor muscles on the non-dominant limb 
compared with the control group and plyometric training group (p<0.05). All 
training groups improved 20-m sprint performance by 4.6-6.2% (p<0.001) compared 
with the control group. No differences were observed in 5-m sprint and agility 
performances (p>0.05). Overall, the results suggest that in-season low-volume 
strength training is adequate for developing strength and speed in soccer 
players.

DOI: 10.2478/hukin-2014-0014
PMCID: PMC4096099
PMID: 25031680


785. Endocrinol Metab (Seoul). 2014 Jun;29(2):112-21. doi:
10.3803/EnM.2014.29.2.112.

Neurocognitive changes and their neural correlates in patients with type 2 
diabetes mellitus.

Lee JH(1), Choi Y(2), Jun C(1), Hong YS(3), Cho HB(2), Kim JE(4), Lyoo IK(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Pharmacy and Graduate School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Ewha 
Womans University, Seoul, Korea. ; Ewha Brain Institute, Ewha Womans University, 
Seoul, Korea.
(2)Ewha Brain Institute, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Korea. ; 
Interdisciplinary Program in Neuroscience, Seoul National University College of 
Natural Sciences, Seoul, Korea.
(3)Ewha Brain Institute, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Korea. ; Department of 
Internal Medicine, Ewha Womans University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(4)Ewha Brain Institute, Ewha Womans University, Seoul, Korea. ; Department of 
Brain and Cognitive Sciences, Ewha Womans University Graduate School, Seoul, 
Korea.

As the prevalence and life expectancy of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) 
continue to increase, the importance of effective detection and intervention for 
the complications of T2DM, especially neurocognitive complications including 
cognitive dysfunction and dementia, is receiving greater attention. T2DM is 
thought to influence cognitive function through an as yet unclear mechanism that 
involves multiple factors such as hyperglycemia, hypoglycemia, and vascular 
disease. Recent developments in neuroimaging methods have led to the 
identification of potential neural correlates of T2DM-related neurocognitive 
changes, which extend from structural to functional and metabolite alterations 
in the brain. The evidence indicates various changes in the T2DM brain, 
including global and regional atrophy, white matter hyperintensity, altered 
functional connectivity, and changes in neurometabolite levels. Continued 
neuroimaging research is expected to further elucidate the underpinnings of 
cognitive decline in T2DM and allow better diagnosis and treatment of the 
condition.

DOI: 10.3803/EnM.2014.29.2.112
PMCID: PMC4091490
PMID: 25031883

Conflict of interest statement: Dr. Lyoo has received research support from 
Lundbeck, AstraZeneca, GSK, and Boryung Pharmaceutical.


786. J Adv Pract Oncol. 2013 Mar;4(2):113-7.

Breast cancer and autism.

Radcliff L(1).

Author information:
(1)Oregon Health & Science University, Portland, Oregon.

Case Study Amy is a 44-year-old woman with severe autism. She lives with her 
sister Susan, who is her caregiver and guardian. Amy is ambulatory and able to 
dress and feed herself. She is a healthy individual with no other significant 
comorbidities. She walks daily and enjoys her sister's company. Amy's life 
expectancy is greater than 10 years. However, she is difficult to care for 
medically, as she will not allow a physical examination and strikes out when 
strangers try to touch her. She is nonverbal and unable to participate in 
decision-making. INITIAL DIAGNOSIS Amy has a history of breast cancer diagnosed 
2 years ago, originally presenting as a stage I lesion (T2N0) that was palpated 
by her caregiver while bathing. She underwent right simple mastectomy with 
sentinel lymph node resection. Susan recalls that the mastectomy was a very 
challenging ordeal, as Amy kept pulling out IV lines, drains, and dressings. 
Susan felt that Amy withdrew from her after the procedure as she most likely 
associated Susan with the cause of the pain, making her role as caregiver more 
difficult. Pathology confirmed an invasive ductal carcinoma, moderately 
differentiated, 2.4 cm, estrogen/progesterone receptor negative, HER2/neu 
negative, with negative surgical margins. Two right axillary sentinel lymph 
nodes were negative for disease. The standard of care for a patient with these 
tumor features is surgery plus adjuvant chemotherapy (National Comprehensive 
Cancer Network [NCCN], 2012). According to the Adjuvant Online! database (2012), 
Amy's risk for relapse was approximately 40% without adjuvant treatment; her 
risk for mortality was approximately 29%. After meeting with a medical 
oncologist, Amy did not receive adjuvant chemotherapy. According to Susan, she 
was not offered the choice, and the decision was not explained to them. She was 
simply told that it was not necessary. Aside from pathology, previous records 
were unavailable for review. Medical assessment of Amy's level of autism reveals 
marked impairments in the use of multiple nonverbal behaviors such as eye-to-eye 
gaze, facial expression, body posture, and gestures to regulate social 
interaction. She exhibits a total lack of development of spoken language, with 
no attempt to compensate through alternative modes of communication such as 
gesture. During the visit, she occupies herself with repetitive motor 
mannerisms. Susan believes that Amy struggles with overstimulation from tactile 
input. Therefore, she is combative with health-care providers and intolerant of 
invasive devices. Susan has an intimate understanding of Amy's ability to 
communicate her needs and wants through nonverbal changes. RECURRENCE 
Approximately 2 months ago, Amy began favoring her right arm and appeared to be 
in pain when participating in various activities. Susan became aware of Amy's 
pain issues by noticing that her posture was slightly altered and she was 
carrying herself differently. Further investigation with a CT scan showed 
concern for local disease recurrence involving the axillary lymph nodes. No 
distant metastases were seen. The standard of care for this diagnosis is 
surgical resection and consideration of radiation therapy, followed by adjuvant 
chemotherapy (NCCN, 2012). Susan does not want Amy to undergo further surgery 
and believes radiation would be too difficult to maneuver. The next best option 
would be a medical approach with chemotherapy as the main modality. DIFFICULT 
DECISIONS If treatment is pursued, the advanced practitioner will need to 
perform regular examinations and prescribe and monitor chemotherapy. The 
delivery of therapy, requiring frequent blood draws and IV access, will be a 
challenge for the health-care staff. The APN is apprehensive about the ability 
to accomplish these tasks safely given Amy's limited capacity to participate. 
The APN is also concerned with how treatment will affect Amy's life. The APN may 
have her own individual conflict of morals to contend with, given the limited 
understanding of the patient vs. nontreatment of a potentially curative 
malignancy. Chemotherapy is not an easy task for any patient to undertake, 
especially for a patient with challenges such as Amy has. Although Susan can 
give legal consent for her sister, Amy is unable to participate in this 
decision-making. Susan strongly believes that Amy's quality of life is much more 
important than the quantity. Withholding treatment may shorten the natural 
course of Amy's life, yet administering chemotherapy will alter the quality of 
life that she now enjoys without her understanding or consent. Should Amy 
receive chemotherapy or should Susan refuse treatment on her behalf?

PMCID: PMC4093416
PMID: 25031990


787. Local Government Actions to Prevent Childhood Obesity.

Institute of Medicine (US) and National Research Council (US) Committee on 
Childhood Obesity Prevention Actions for Local Governments; Parker L, Burns AC, 
Sanchez E, editors.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 2009.

The prevalence of childhood obesity is so high in the United States that it may 
reduce the life expectancy of today's generation of children. While parents and 
other adult caregivers play a fundamental role in teaching children about 
healthy behaviors, even the most positive efforts can be undermined by local 
environments that are poorly suited to supporting healthy behaviors. For 
example, many communities lack ready sources of healthy food choices, such as 
supermarkets and grocery stores. Or they may not provide safe places for 
children to walk or play. In such communities, even the most motivated child or 
adolescent may find it difficult to act in healthy ways. Local governments--with 
jurisdiction over many aspects of land use, food marketing, community planning, 
transportation, health and nutrition programs, and other community issues--are 
ideally positioned to promote behaviors that will help children and adolescents 
reach and maintain healthy weights. Local Government Actions to Prevent 
Childhood Obesity presents a number of recommendations that touch on the vital 
role of government actions on all levels--federal, state, and local--in 
childhood obesity prevention. The book offers healthy eating and physical 
activity strategies for local governments to consider, making it an excellent 
resource for mayors, managers, commissioners, council members, county board 
members, and administrators.

Copyright 2009 by the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.17226/12674
PMID: 25032346


788. Am J Public Health. 2015 Feb;105(2):408-13. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2014.301935.

Characterization of dementia and Alzheimer's disease in an older population: 
updated incidence and life expectancy with and without dementia.

Tom SE(1), Hubbard RA, Crane PK, Haneuse SJ, Bowen J, McCormick WC, McCurry S, 
Larson EB.

Author information:
(1)Sarah E. Tom is with the Pharmaceutical Health Services Research Department, 
School of Pharmacy, University of Maryland, Baltimore. Rebecca A. Hubbard and 
Eric B. Larson are with the Group Health Research Institute, Group Health 
Cooperative, Seattle, WA. Paul K. Crane and Eric B. Larson are with the 
Department of Medicine, University of Washington, Seattle. Sebastien J. Haneuse 
is with the Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Harvard 
University, Cambridge, MA. James Bowen is with the Swedish Neuroscience 
Institute, Seattle, WA. Wayne C. McCormick is with the Harborview Medical 
Center, Seattle, WA. Susan McCurry is with Psychosocial and Community Health, 
School of Nursing, University of Washington.

OBJECTIVES: We estimated dementia incidence rates, life expectancies with and 
without dementia, and percentage of total life expectancy without dementia.
METHODS: We studied 3605 members of Group Health (Seattle, WA) aged 65 years or 
older who did not have dementia at enrollment to the Adult Changes in Thought 
study between 1994 and 2008. We estimated incidence rates of Alzheimer's disease 
and dementia, as well as life expectancies with and without dementia, defined as 
the average number of years one is expected to live with and without dementia, 
and percentage of total life expectancy without dementia.
RESULTS: Dementia incidence increased through ages 85 to 89 years (74.2 cases 
per 1000 person-years) and 90 years or older (105 cases per 1000 person-years). 
Life expectancy without dementia and percentage of total life expectancy without 
dementia decreased with age. Life expectancy with dementia was longer in women 
and people with at least a college degree. Percentage of total life expectancy 
without dementia was greater in younger age groups, men, and those with more 
education.
CONCLUSIONS: Efforts to delay onset of dementia, if successful, would likely 
benefit older adults of all ages.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2014.301935
PMCID: PMC4318311
PMID: 25033130 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


789. Am J Public Health. 2014 Sep;104(9):1774-82. doi: 10.2105/AJPH.2014.302018.
Epub  2014 Jul 17.

The cost-effectiveness of school-based eating disorder screening.

Wright DR(1), Austin SB, LeAnn Noh H, Jiang Y, Sonneville KR.

Author information:
(1)Davene R. Wright is with the Department of Pediatrics, University of 
Washington School of Medicine, and the Center for Child Health, Behavior, and 
Development, Seattle Children's Research Institute, Seattle. S. Bryn Austin is 
with the Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard School of Public 
Health, and the Division of Adolescent and Young Adult Medicine, Boston 
Children's Hospital, Boston. Kendrin R. Sonneville is with the Department of 
Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School, and the Division of Adolescent and Young 
Adult Medicine, Boston Children's Hospital, Boston. H. LeAnn Noh is with the 
Department of Social and Behavioral Sciences, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston. Yushan Jiang is with the Department of Global Health and Population, 
Harvard School of Public Health, Boston.

OBJECTIVES: We aimed to assess the value of school-based eating disorder (ED) 
screening for a hypothetical cohort of US public school students.
METHODS: We used a decision-analytic microsimulation model to model the 
effectiveness (life-years with ED and quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]), 
total direct costs, and cost-effectiveness (cost per QALY gained) of screening 
relative to current practice.
RESULTS: The screening strategy cost $2260 (95% confidence interval 
[CI] = $1892, $2668) per student and resulted in a per capita gain of 0.25 fewer 
life-years with ED (95% CI = 0.21, 0.30) and 0.04 QALYs (95% CI = 0.03, 0.05) 
relative to current practice. The base case cost-effectiveness of the 
intervention was $9041 per life-year with ED avoided (95% CI = $6617, $12,344) 
and $56,500 per QALY gained (95% CI = $38,805, $71,250).
CONCLUSIONS: At willingness-to-pay thresholds of $50,000 and $100,000 per QALY 
gained, school-based ED screening is 41% and 100% likely to be cost-effective, 
respectively. The cost-effectiveness of ED screening is comparable to many other 
accepted pediatric health interventions, including hypertension screening.

DOI: 10.2105/AJPH.2014.302018
PMCID: PMC4151929
PMID: 25033131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


790. Dig Dis. 2014;32(5):554-63. doi: 10.1159/000360501. Epub 2014 Jul 14.

Treatment of hepatocellular carcinoma.

Liccioni A(1), Reig M, Bruix J.

Author information:
(1)Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer (BCLC) Group, Liver Unit, Hospital Clinic 
Barcelona, IDIBAPS, University of Barcelona, Centro de Investigación Biomédica 
en Red de Enfermedades Hepáticas y Digestivas (CIBEREHD), Barcelona, Spain.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is a highly prevalent and lethal neoplasia. 
Several studies have shown that HCC is the main cause of death in patients with 
cirrhosis. A better knowledge of the natural history of the tumor and the 
development of staging systems has allowed to refine the prognosis of the 
patients. The Barcelona Clinic Liver Cancer system (BCLC) has become the 
preferred staging system since it takes into account the tumor characteristics, 
the degree of liver impairment and the physical performance. It has been 
endorsed by several scientific associations and research consortia as it does 
not just define prognosis, but, more interestingly, it links staging with 
prognosis assessment and treatment recommendation. Curative therapies such as 
resection, transplantation and ablation can improve survival in patients 
diagnosed at an early HCC stage and may offer a long-term cure with overall 
survival that may exceed 70% at 5 years. Patients with intermediate stage HCC 
benefit from chemoembolization and proper selection of candidates permits a 50% 
survival at 3-4 years. Finally, patients diagnosed at an advanced stage benefit 
from sorafenib, an oral available, multikinase inhibitor with antiangiogenic and 
antiproliferative effects. Current research efforts are aimed at further 
refining prognosis prediction through molecular profiling and enhanced clinical 
characterization. At the same time, better knowledge of the molecular mechanisms 
of cancer should result in a further improvement of the current life expectancy 
of patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000360501
PMID: 25034288 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


791. Dig Dis. 2014;32(5):626-30. doi: 10.1159/000360516. Epub 2014 Jul 14.

Evidence-based treatment of primary biliary cirrhosis.

Poupon R(1).

Author information:
(1)Service d'Hépatologie et Centre de Référence des maladies inflammatoires des 
voies biliaires, Hôpital Saint-Antoine, AP-HP, and UPMC Université Paris 06, 
INSERM, UMR-S 938, Paris, France.

The natural history of primary biliary cirrhosis (PBC) has improved greatly 
during the past two decades because of its diagnosis at earlier stages and the 
widespread use of ursodeoxycholic acid as first-line treatment. As a result, far 
fewer patients require liver transplantation and patients diagnosed with 
early-stage disease appear to have a normal life expectancy. The evidence-based 
treatment of PBC is reviewed here. The challenge of designing and executing 
high-quality clinical trials as well as lessons from past clinical trials are 
discussed. The rationales for the use of budesonide and new investigational 
therapies (PPAR and FXR agonists) as well as their therapeutic potential in 
light of recent available data are also reviewed. An algorithm of the management 
of PBC patients responding or not to ursodeoxycholic acid is proposed.

DOI: 10.1159/000360516
