Why care for the severely disabled? A critique of MacIntyre's account.

Poore GS(1).

Author information:
(1)Shorter University, Rome, Georgia, USA gpoore@shorter.edu.

In Dependent Rational Animals, Alasdair MacIntyre attempts to ground the virtues 
in a biological account of humans. Drawing from this attempt, he also tries to 
answer the question of why we should care for the severely disabled. MacIntyre's 
difficulty in answering this question begins with the fact that his communities 
of practices do not naturally include the severely disabled within their 
membership and care. In response to this difficulty, he provides four reasons 
for why we should care for the severely disabled. I argue that three of these 
reasons are inadequate, and that the fourth is incomplete although it does point 
in a promising direction. I conclude that a more satisfactory answer requires a 
further extension of the central development from After Virtue to Dependent 
Rational Animals, and I draw from Wendell Berry, whose work MacIntyre admires, 
to provide an illuminating illustration of what such an answer might look like.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press, on behalf of the 
Journal of Medicine and Philosophy Inc. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jmp/jhu027
PMID: 24973249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Gen Hosp Psychiatry. 2014 Sep-Oct;36(5):453-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2014.05.012. Epub 2014 May 21.

Twelve-month cost-effectiveness of telephone-delivered collaborative care for 
treating depression following CABG surgery: a randomized controlled trial.

Donohue JM(1), Belnap BH(2), Men A(1), He F(3), Roberts MS(4), Schulberg HC(5), 
Reynolds CF 3rd(3), Rollman BL(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, University of Pittsburgh Graduate 
School of Public Health, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(2)Division of General Internal Medicine, Center for Research on Health Care, 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry, University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, 
Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(4)Department of Health Policy and Management, University of Pittsburgh Graduate 
School of Public Health, Pittsburgh, PA, USA; Division of General Internal 
Medicine, Center for Research on Health Care, University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA.
(5)Department of Psychiatry, Weill Cornell Medical College, White Plains, NY, 
USA.
(6)Division of General Internal Medicine, Center for Research on Health Care, 
University of Pittsburgh School of Medicine, Pittsburgh, PA, USA. Electronic 
address: rollmanbl@upmc.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the 12-month cost-effectiveness of a collaborative care 
(CC) program for treating depression following coronary artery bypass graft 
(CABG) surgery versus physicians' usual care (UC).
METHODS: We obtained 12 continuous months of Medicare and private medical 
insurance claims data on 189 patients who screened positive for depression 
following CABG surgery, met criteria for depression when reassessed by telephone 
2 weeks following hospitalization (nine-item Patient Health Questionnaire ≥10) 
and were randomized to either an 8-month centralized, nurse-provided and 
telephone-delivered CC intervention for depression or to their physicians' UC.
RESULTS: At 12 months following randomization, CC patients had $2068 lower but 
statistically similar estimated median costs compared to UC (P=.30) and a 
variety of sensitivity analyses produced no significant changes. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of CC was -$9889 (-$11,940 to -$7838) per additional 
quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), and there was 90% probability it would be 
cost-effective at the willingness to pay threshold of $20,000 per additional 
QALY. A bootstrapped cost-effectiveness plane also demonstrated a 68% 
probability of CC "dominating" UC (more QALYs at lower cost).
CONCLUSIONS: Centralized, nurse-provided and telephone-delivered CC for 
post-CABG depression is a quality-improving and cost-effective treatment that 
meets generally accepted criteria for high-value care.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.genhosppsych.2014.05.012
PMCID: PMC4138244
PMID: 24973911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Mol Neurobiol. 2015;51(3):1249-62. doi: 10.1007/s12035-014-8803-9. Epub 2014
Jun  29.

Causes and Consequences of MicroRNA Dysregulation in Neurodegenerative Diseases.

Tan L(1), Yu JT, Tan L.

Author information:
(1)College of Medicine and Pharmaceutics, Ocean University of China, Qingdao, 
China.

Neurodegenerative diseases, including Alzheimer's disease (AD), Parkinson's 
disease (PD), Huntington's disease (HD) and amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), 
originate from a loss of neurons in the central nervous system (CNS) and are 
severely debilitating. The incidence of neurodegenerative diseases increases 
with age, and they are expected to become more common due to extended life 
expectancy. Because of no clear mechanisms, these diseases have become a major 
challenge in neurobiology. It is well recognized that these disorders become the 
culmination of many different genetic and environmental influences. Prior 
studies have shown that microRNAs (miRNAs) are pathologically altered during the 
inexorable course of some neurodegenerative diseases, suggesting that miRNAs may 
be the contributing factor in neurodegeneration. Here, we review what is known 
about the involvement of miRNAs in the pathogenesis of neurodegenerative 
diseases. The biogenesis of miRNAs and various functions of miRNAs that act as 
the chief regulators will be discussed. We focus in particular on dysregulation 
of miRNAs which leads to several neurodegenerative diseases from three aspects: 
miRNA-generating disorders, miRNA-targeting genes and epigenetic alterations. 
Furthermore, recent evidences have shown that circulating miRNA expression 
levels are changed in patients with neurodegenerative diseases. Circulating 
miRNA expression levels are reported in patients in order to evaluate their 
application as biomarkers of these diseases. A discussion is included with a 
potential diagnostic biomarker and the possible future direction in exploring 
the nexus between miRNAs and various neurodegenerative diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-014-8803-9
PMID: 24973986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2014 Aug;12(4):447-59. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-014-0107-8.

Cost effectiveness of tiotropium in patients with asthma poorly controlled on 
inhaled glucocorticosteroids and long-acting β-agonists.

Willson J(1), Bateman ED, Pavord I, Lloyd A, Krivasi T, Esser D.

Author information:
(1)Health Economics and Outcomes Research, Real-World Evidence Solutions, IMS 
Health, 210 Pentonville Road, London, N1 9JY, UK.

Erratum in
    Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2016 Feb;14(1):119-25.

Comment in
    Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2016 Feb;14(1):117-8.

BACKGROUND: A considerable proportion of patients with asthma remain 
uncontrolled or symptomatic despite treatment with a high dose of inhaled 
glucocorticosteroids (ICSs) and long-acting β2-agonists (LABAs). Tiotropium 
Respimat(®) added to usual care improves lung function, asthma control, and the 
frequency of non-severe and severe exacerbations, in a population of adult 
asthma patients who are uncontrolled despite treatment with ICS/LABA.
OBJECTIVE: This study estimated the cost effectiveness of tiotropium therapy as 
add-on to usual care in asthma patients that are uncontrolled despite treatment 
with ICS/LABA combination from the perspective of the UK National Health Service 
(NHS).
METHODS: A Markov model was developed which considers levels of asthma control 
and exacerbations. The model analysed cost and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs); sensitivity and scenario analyses were also conducted to test the 
robustness of the base case outcomes. All costs are given at 2012 prices.
RESULTS: The model found that in this category of asthma with unmet need, add-on 
tiotropium therapy generated an incremental 0.24 QALYs and £5,238 costs over a 
lifetime horizon, resulting in an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
£21,906 per QALY gained. Sensitivity analysis suggested that findings were most 
dependent on the costs of managing uncontrolled asthma and the cost of treatment 
with tiotropium.
CONCLUSION: In this modelled analysis of two clinical trials, tiotropium was 
found to be cost effective when added to usual care in patients who remain 
uncontrolled despite treatment with high-dose ICS/LABA. Further research should 
investigate the long-term treatment effectiveness of tiotropium.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-014-0107-8
PMID: 24974107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2014 Aug;134(8):1083-91. doi: 
10.1007/s00402-014-2035-3. Epub 2014 Jun 29.

Prospective quantitative assessment of spinal range of motion before and after 
minimally invasive surgical treatment of vertebral body fractures.

Druschel C(1), Schaser KD, Rohlmann A, Pirvu T, Disch AC.

Author information:
(1)Center for Musculoskeletal Surgery, Spine Unit, Charité - University Medicine 
Berlin, Augustenburger Platz 1, 13353, Berlin, Germany.

INTRODUCTION: Randomized clinical trials have generated doubts regarding the 
therapeutic effectiveness of spinal kyphoplasty to reduce pain and improve 
quality of life in patients with vertebral fractures. There is a paucity of data 
on the influence of kyphoplasty on spinal range of motion. To quantify early 
postoperative changes following kyphoplasty in spinal motion, a noninvasive, 
radiation-free measurement method was used and results related to clinical and 
radiological parameters.
METHODS: The study group included 30 patients with an overall number of 54 
symptomatic pathological vertebral compression fractures. All patients were 
treated with balloon kyphoplasty. Clinical results were recorded using the 
visual analog scale, SF 36, Roland Morris Score and the Oswestry Disability 
Index, at three time points; preoperative, 2 days postoperative, and at 12 weeks 
postoperative. The kyphosis angle/sagittal index were determined with biplanar 
X-rays. Amplitude/velocity of motion in extension/flexion was measured at each 
time point by use of the EpionicsSPINE(©) system (Epionics Medical GmbH; 
Potsdam, Germany) using two external sensor strips.
RESULTS: Preoperative magnetic resonance imaging scans showed bone marrow edema 
in all vertebral bodies indicative of a recent, non-consolidated fracture. Pain 
and quality of life was significantly improved by kyphoplasty, both for the 
immediate postoperative period, as well as at 12 weeks postoperative. 
Radiological parameters also showed significant improvement following surgery. 
Total ROM did not significantly change 2 days after kyphoplasty, but amplitude 
and velocity were found to be increased 12 weeks postoperatively. Significant 
positive correlations were observed between increased range of motion and 
improved clinical/radiological scores.
CONCLUSION: Significant clinical and radiological improvement following 
kyphoplasty supports the rational for cement augmentation in patients with 
pathological vertebral body fractures. To the knowledge of the authors, no prior 
study has assessed the influence of preservation and improvement of spinal range 
of motion on clinical outcome following kyphoplasty.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-014-2035-3
PMID: 24974277 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. Rev Laryngol Otol Rhinol (Bord). 2013;134(3):119-24.

Cochlear implantation in older patients: outcomes and comparisons.

Rafferty A, Tapper L, Strachan D, Raine C.

OBJECTIVES: A review of adults receiving cochlear implants (Cls) at the 
Yorkshire Cochlear Implant Service (YCIS) was performed to assess whether age 
affects use or outcomes.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of all patients over the age of 50 implanted 
and habilitated at the YCIS was undertaken. Outcome measures included quality of 
life (QoL) questionnaires and speech perception tests: CUNY sentences and BKB 
sentences. Comparisons were made between patients implanted age 50 to 59 (A), 60 
to 69 (B) and 70 and over (C). Patients with English as a second language and 
those implanted for less than 9 months were excluded. Data was analysed using a 
repeated measure regression model.
RESULTS: 80 adults were included; A, 31; B, 29; C, 20. Significant improvements 
were seen in speech perception scores in all groups from pre-implant to 3 
months. No statistically significant difference was found between the 3 groups 
in any outcome measure. QoL scores overall showed increased independence and 
greater participation in social activities with all patients feeling their 
implant had been successful.
DISCUSSION: Increased life expectancy and availability of cochlear implants 
(Cls) has led to greater numbers of older patients being eligible for 
implantation. Our results show improved speech perception and QoL outcomes in 
all groups. The lack of statistically significant differences between age groups 
supports the benefits of Cls in the older population. Older age should not be a 
discriminating factor in candidacy for cochlear implantation and referral of 
older patients to implant centres should be encouraged.

PMID: 24974403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2011 Dec 29;60(3):1-116.

Deaths: final data for 2009.

Kochanek KD, Xu J, Murphy SL, Miniño AM, Kung HC.

OBJECTIVE: This report presents final 2009 data on U.S. deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, infant mortality, and trends by selected characteristics such 
as age, sex, Hispanic origin, race, state of residence, and cause of death.
METHODS: Information reported on death certificates, which is completed by 
funeral directors, attending physicians, medical examiners, and coroners, is 
presented in descriptive tabulations. The original records are filed in state 
registration offices. Statistical information is compiled in a national database 
through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Statistics. Causes of death 
are processed in accordance with the International Classification of Diseases, 
Tenth Revision.
RESULTS: In 2009, a total of 2,437,163 deaths were reported in the United 
States. The age-adjusted death rate was 741.1 deaths per 100,000 standard 
population, a decrease of 2.3% from the 2008 rate and a record low figure. Life 
expectancy at birth rose 0.4 years, from 78.1 years in 2008 to a record-high 
78.5 years in 2009. Age-specific death rates decreased for age groups: under 1 
year, 1-4, 15-24, 55-64, 65-74, and 75-84. The age-specific death rates remained 
unchanged for age groups 5-14, 25-34, 35-44, 45-54, and 85 years and over. The 
15 leading causes of death in 2009 remained the same as in 2008. The infant 
mortality rate decreased 3.3% to a historically low value of 6.39 deaths per 
1,000 live births in 2009.
CONCLUSION: The decline of the age-adjusted death rate to a record low value for 
the United States and the increase in life expectancy to a record high value of 
78.5 years are consistent with long-term trends in mortality.

PMID: 24974587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2012 Sep 24;61(3):1-63.

United States life tables, 2008.

Arias E.

OBJECTIVES: This report presents complete period life tables for the United 
States by race, Hispanic origin, and sex, based on age-specific death rates in 
2008.
METHODS: Data used to prepare the 2008 life tables are 2008 final mortality 
statistics; July 1, 2008, population estimates based on the 2000 decennial 
census; and 2008 Medicare data for persons aged 66-99. The methodology used to 
estimate the 2008 life tables has been revised from that used for data years 
2000-2007. The methodology was refined in two important ways. First, a logistic 
model rather than a nonlinear least squares model was used to smooth and 
extrapolate the vital statistics and Medicare blended death rates at the oldest 
ages. Second, the age at which smoothing is begun was raised from 66 to 85 or 
so, depending on the population. This modification applies to the life tables 
for the total population and for the white, black, non-Hispanic white, and 
non-Hispanic black populations. The methodology used to estimate the life tables 
for the Hispanic population remains unchanged from that developed for the 
publication of life tables by Hispanic origin for data year 2006.
RESULTS: In 2008, the overall expectation of life at birth was 78.1 years. 
Between 2007 and 2008, life expectancy at birth increased for all groups 
considered, although approximately 0.1 years of the increase is due to the 
change in methodology. Life expectancy increased for both males (from 75.4 to 
75.6) and females (80.4 to 80.6) and for the white population (78.4 to 78.5), 
the black population (73.6 to 74.0), the Hispanic population (80.9 to 81.0), the 
non-Hispanic white population (78.2 to 78.4), and the non-Hispanic black 
population (73.2 to 73.7).

PMID: 24974590 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


629. Free Radic Res. 2014 Sep;48(9):1109-14. doi: 10.3109/10715762.2014.936431.
Epub  2014 Jul 29.

Cisd2 mediates lifespan: is there an interconnection among Ca²⁺ homeostasis, 
autophagy, and lifespan?

Wang CH(1), Kao CH, Chen YF, Wei YH, Tsai TF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, School of Life Science, 
National Yang-Ming University , Taipei , Taiwan.

CISD2, an evolutionarily conserved novel gene, plays a crucial role in lifespan 
control and human disease. Mutations in human CISD2 cause type 2 Wolfram 
syndrome, a rare neurodegenerative and metabolic disorder associated with a 
shortened lifespan. Significantly, the CISD2 gene is located within a region on 
human chromosome 4q where a genetic component for human longevity has been 
mapped through a comparative genome analysis of centenarian siblings. We created 
Cisd2 knockout (loss-of-function) and transgenic (gain-of-function) mice to 
study the role of Cisd2 in development and pathophysiology, and demonstrated 
that Cisd2 expression affects lifespan in mammals. In the Cisd2 knockout mice, 
Cisd2 deficiency shortens lifespan and drives a panel of premature aging 
phenotypes. Additionally, an age-dependent decrease of Cisd2 expression has been 
detected during normal aging in mice. Interestingly, in the Cisd2 transgenic 
mice, we demonstrated that a persistent level of Cisd2 expression over the 
different stages of life gives the mice a long-lived phenotype that is linked to 
an extension in healthy lifespan and a delay in age-associated diseases. At the 
cellular level, Cisd2 deficiency leads to mitochondrial breakdown and 
dysfunction accompanied by cell death with autophagic features. Recent studies 
revealed that Cisd2 may function as an autophagy regulator involved in the Bcl-2 
mediated regulation of autophagy. Furthermore, Cisd2 regulates Ca(2+) 
homeostasis and Ca(2+) has been proposed to have an important regulatory role in 
autophagy. Finally, it remains to be elucidated if and how the regulation in 
Ca(2+) homeostasis, autophagy and lifespan are interconnected at the molecular, 
cellular and organism levels.

DOI: 10.3109/10715762.2014.936431
PMID: 24974737 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


630. Exp Gerontol. 2014 Oct;58:90-5. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2014.06.018. Epub 2014
Jun  27.

Leukocyte telomere length and prevalence of age-related diseases in 
semisupercentenarians, centenarians and centenarians' offspring.

Tedone E(1), Arosio B(2), Gussago C(3), Casati M(4), Ferri E(3), Ogliari G(3), 
Ronchetti F(3), Porta A(3), Massariello F(3), Nicolini P(4), Mari D(2).

Author information:
(1)Geriatric Unit, Department of Medical Sciences and Community Health, 
University of Milan, Via Pace 9, 20122 Milan, Italy. Electronic address: 
enzo.tedone@unimi.it.
(2)Geriatric Unit, Department of Medical Sciences and Community Health, 
University of Milan, Via Pace 9, 20122 Milan, Italy; Geriatric Unit, Fondazione 
CaGranda, IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Via Pace 9, 20122 Milan, Italy.
(3)Geriatric Unit, Department of Medical Sciences and Community Health, 
University of Milan, Via Pace 9, 20122 Milan, Italy.
(4)Geriatric Unit, Fondazione CaGranda, IRCCS Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, Via 
Pace 9, 20122 Milan, Italy.

Centenarians and their offspring are increasingly considered a useful model to 
study and characterize the mechanisms underlying healthy aging and longevity. 
The aim of this project is to compare the prevalence of age-related diseases and 
telomere length (TL), a marker of biological age and mortality, across five 
groups of subjects: semisupercentenarians (SSCENT) (105-109years old), 
centenarians (CENT) (100-104years old), centenarians' offspring (CO), age- and 
gender-matched offspring of parents who both died at an age in line with life 
expectancy (CT) and age- and gender-matched offspring of both non-long-lived 
parents (NLO). Information was collected on lifestyle, past and current 
diseases, medical history and medication use. SSCENT displayed a lower 
prevalence of acute myocardial infarction (p=0.027), angina (p=0.016) and 
depression (p=0.021) relative to CENT. CO appeared to be healthier compared to 
CT who, in turn, displayed a lower prevalence of both arrhythmia (p=0.034) and 
hypertension (p=0.046) than NLO, characterized by the lowest parental longevity. 
Interestingly, CO and SSCENT exhibited the longest (p<0.001) and the shortest 
(p<0.001) telomeres respectively while CENT showed no difference in TL compared 
to the younger CT and NLO. Our results strengthen the hypothesis that the 
longevity of parents may influence the health status of their offspring. 
Moreover, our data also suggest that both CENT and their offspring may be 
characterized by a better TL maintenance which, in turn, may contribute to their 
longevity and healthy aging. The observation that SSCENT showed considerable 
shorter telomeres compared to CENT may suggest a progressive impairment of TL 
maintenance mechanisms over the transition from centenarian to 
semisupercentenarian age.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2014.06.018
PMID: 24975295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


631. Arch Biochem Biophys. 2014 Nov 1;561:88-98. doi: 10.1016/j.abb.2014.06.019.
Epub  2014 Jun 27.

Cellular behavior as a dynamic field for exploring bone bioengineering: a closer 
look at cell-biomaterial interface.

Gemini-Piperni S(1), Takamori ER(2), Sartoretto SC(3), Paiva KB(4), Granjeiro 
JM(5), de Oliveira RC(6), Zambuzzi WF(7).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Bioensaios e Dinâmica Celular, Depto. Química e Bioquímica, 
Instituto de Biociência, Universidade Estadual Paulista, UNESP, Campus Botucatu, 
Botucatu, SP, Brazil; Department of Biotechnological and Applied Clinical 
Sciences, University of L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(2)Excellion Biomedical Services, Petrópolis, RJ, Brazil.
(3)Department of Oral Surgery, Fluminense Federal University, Niteroi, Brazil.
(4)Extracellular Matrix Biology and Cellular Interaction Group, Department of 
Anatomy, Institute of Biomedical Sciences, University of São Paulo, São Paulo, 
SP, Brazil.
(5)Instituto Nacional de Metrologia, Normalização e Qualidade Industrial 
(INMETRO), Diretoria de Programas (DIPRO)/Bioengenharia, Xerém, RJ, Brazil.
(6)Department of Biological Sciences, Bauru Dental School, University of São 
Paulo (USP), Alameda Dr. Octávio Pinheiro Brisolla 9-75, Bauru, São Paulo, SP 
17012-901, Brazil.
(7)Laboratório de Bioensaios e Dinâmica Celular, Depto. Química e Bioquímica, 
Instituto de Biociência, Universidade Estadual Paulista, UNESP, Campus Botucatu, 
Botucatu, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: wzambuzzi@ibb.unesp.br.

Bone is a highly dynamic and specialized tissue, capable of regenerating itself 
spontaneously when afflicted by minor injuries. Nevertheless, when major lesions 
occur, it becomes necessary to use biomaterials, which are not only able to 
endure the cellular proliferation and migration, but also to substitute the 
original tissue or integrate itself to it. With the life expectancy growth, 
regenerative medicine has been gaining constant attention in the reconstructive 
field of dentistry and orthopedy. Focusing on broadening the therapeutic 
possibilities for the regeneration of injured organs, the development of 
biomaterials allied with the applicability of gene therapy and bone 
bioengineering has been receiving vast attention over the recent years. The 
progress of cellular and molecular biology techniques gave way to new-guided 
therapy possibilities. Supported by multidisciplinary activities, tissue 
engineering combines the interaction of physicists, chemists, biologists, 
engineers, biotechnologist, dentists and physicians with common goals: the 
search for materials that could promote and lead cell activity. A well-oriented 
combining of scaffolds, promoting factors, cells, together with gene therapy 
advances may open new avenues to bone healing in the near future. In this 
review, our target was to write a report bringing overall concepts on tissue 
bioengineering, with a special attention to decisive biological parameters for 
the development of biomaterials, as well as to discuss known intracellular 
signal transduction as a new manner to be explored within this field, aiming to 
predict in vitro the quality of the host cell/material and thus contributing 
with the development of regenerative medicine.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.abb.2014.06.019
PMID: 24976174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


632. J Man Manip Ther. 2014 May;22(2):59-74. doi: 10.1179/2042618613Y.0000000041.

The efficacy of manual therapy and exercise for different stages of non-specific 
low back pain: an update of systematic reviews.

Hidalgo B(1), Detrembleur C(1), Hall T(2), Mahaudens P(3), Nielens H(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neuroscience, Faculty of Motor Sciences, University of Louvain, 
Brussels, Belgium.
(2)School of Physiotherapy, Curtin Innovation Health Research Institute, Curtin 
University of Technology, Perth, WA, Australia.
(3)Institute of Neuroscience, Faculty of Motor Sciences, University of Louvain, 
Brussels, Belgium ; Rehabilitation and Physical Medicine, Saint-Luc Hospital 
University of Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: to review and update the evidence for different forms of manual 
therapy (MT) for patients with different stages of non-specific low back pain 
(LBP).
DATA SOURCES: MEDLINE, Cochrane-Register-of-Controlled-Trials, PEDro, EMBASE.
METHOD: A systematic review of MT with a literature search covering the period 
of January 2000 to April 2013 was conducted by two independent reviewers 
according to Cochrane and PRISMA guidelines. A total of 360 studies were 
evaluated using qualitative criteria. Two stages of LBP were categorized; 
combined acute-subacute and chronic. Further sub-classification was made 
according to MT intervention: MT1 (manipulation); MT2 (mobilization and 
soft-tissue-techniques); and MT3 (MT1 combined with MT2). In each sub-category, 
MT could be combined or not with exercise or usual medical care (UMC). 
Consequently, quantitative evaluation criteria were applied to 56 eligible 
randomized controlled trials (RCTs), and hence 23 low-risk of bias RCTs were 
identified for review. Only studies providing new updated information (11/23 
RCTs) are presented here.
RESULTS: Acute-subacute LBP: STRONG-evidence in favour of MT1 when compared to 
sham for pain, function and health improvements in the short-term (1-3 months). 
MODERATE-evidence to support MT1 and MT3 combined with UMC in comparison to UMC 
alone for pain, function and health improvements in the short-term. Chronic LBP: 
MODERATE to STRONG-evidence in favour of MT1 in comparison to sham for pain, 
function and overall-health in the short-term. MODERATE-evidence in favour of 
MT3 combined with exercise or UMC in comparison to exercise and back-school was 
established for pain, function and quality-of-life in the short and long-term. 
LIMITED-evidence in favour of MT2 combined with exercise and UMC in comparison 
to UMC alone for pain and function from short to long-term. LIMITED-evidence of 
no effect for MT1 with extension-exercise compared to extension-exercise alone 
for pain in the short to long-term.
CONCLUSION: This systematic review updates the evidence for MT with exercise or 
UMC for different stages of LBP and provides recommendations for future studies.

DOI: 10.1179/2042618613Y.0000000041
PMCID: PMC4017797
PMID: 24976749


633. J Man Manip Ther. 2014 May;22(2):100-7. doi: 10.1179/2042618613Y.0000000042.

Lower extremity thrust and non-thrust joint mobilization for patellofemoral pain 
syndrome: a case report.

Simpson BG(1), Simon CB(2).

Author information:
(1)Life's Work Physical Therapy, Portland, OR, USA.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Health and Human Professions, 
University of Florida, Gainesville, FL, USA.

A 40-year old female presented to physical therapy with a one-year history of 
insidious right anteromedial and anterolateral knee pain. Additionally, the 
patient had a history of multiple lateral ankle sprains bilaterally, the last 
sprain occurring on the right ankle 1 year prior to the onset of knee pain. The 
patient was evaluated and given a physical therapy diagnosis of patellofemoral 
pain syndrome (PFPS), with associated talocrural and tibiofemoral joint 
hypomobility limiting ankle dorsiflexion and knee extension, respectively. 
Treatment included a high-velocity low amplitude thrust manipulation to the 
talocrural joint, which helped restore normal ankle dorsiflexion range of 
motion. The patient also received tibiofemoral joint non-thrust manual therapy 
to regain normal knee extension mobility prior to implementing further 
functional progression exercises to her home program (HEP). This case report 
highlights the importance of a detailed evaluation of knee and ankle joint 
mobility in patients presenting with anterior knee pain. Further, manual 
physical therapy to the lower extremity was found to be successful in restoring 
normal movement patterns and pain-free function in a patient with chronic 
anterior knee pain.

DOI: 10.1179/2042618613Y.0000000042
PMCID: PMC4017801
PMID: 24976753


634. World J Cardiol. 2014 Jun 26;6(6):405-14. doi: 10.4330/wjc.v6.i6.405.

Role of cardiovascular magnetic resonance in assessment of acute coronary 
syndrome.

Azarisman SM(1), Teo KS(1), Worthley MI(1), Worthley SG(1).

Author information:
(1)Shah M Azarisman, Department of Internal Medicine, Kulliyyah of Medicine, 
International Islamic University Malaysia, Bandar InderaMahkota, 25200 Kuantan, 
Pahang, Malaysia.

Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of death in the western world 
and is becoming more important in the developing world. Recently, advances in 
monitoring, revascularisation and pharmacotherapy have resulted in a reduction 
in mortality. However, although mortality rates have declined, the burden of 
disease remains large resulting in high direct and indirect healthcare costs 
related to CVDs. In Australia, acute coronary syndrome (ACS) accounts for more 
than 300000 years of life lost due to premature death and a total cost exceeding 
eight billion dollars annually. It is also the main contributor towards the 
discrepancy in life expectancy between indigenous and non-indigenous 
Australians. The high prevalence of CVD along with its associated cost urgently 
requires a reliable but non-invasive and cost-effective imaging modality. The 
imaging modality of choice should be able to accelerate the diagnosis of ACS, 
aid in the risk stratification of de novo coronary artery disease and avail 
incremental information of prognostic value such as viability which 
cardiovascular magnetic resonance (CMR) allows. Despite its manifold benefits, 
there are limitations to its wider use in routine clinical assessment and more 
studies are required into assessing its cost-effectiveness. It is hoped that 
with greater development in the technology and imaging protocols, CMR could be 
made less cumbersome, its imaging protocols less lengthy, the technology more 
inexpensive and easily applied in routine clinical practice.

DOI: 10.4330/wjc.v6.i6.405
PMCID: PMC4072830
PMID: 24976912


635. J Glob Health. 2014 Jun;4(1):010404. doi: 10.7189/jogh.04.010404.

Urbanization and prevalence of type 2 diabetes in Southern Asia: A systematic 
analysis.

Cheema A(1), Adeloye D(1), Sidhu S(1), Sridhar D(1), Chan KY(1).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Population Health Sciences and the World Health Organization's 
Collaboration Centre for Population Health Research and Training, The University 
of Edinburgh Medical School, Edinburgh, Scotland, UK.

BACKGROUND: Diabetes mellitus is one of the diseases considered to be the main 
constituents of the global non-communicable disease (NCD) pandemic. Despite the 
large impact that NCDs are predicted to have, particularly in developing 
countries, estimates of disease burden are sparse and inconsistent. This 
systematic review transparently estimates prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus 
in Southern Asia, its association with urbanization and provides insight into 
the policy challenges facing the region.
METHODS: The databases Medline and PubMed were searched for population-based 
studies providing estimates of diabetes prevalence in the Southern Asia region. 
Studies using WHO diagnostic criteria of fasting plasma glucose (FPG) ≥7.0mmol/L 
and/or 2h-plasma glucose (2hPG) ≥11.1mmol/L were included. Data from eligible 
studies was extracted into bubble graphs, and trend lines were applied to UNPD 
figures to estimate age-specific prevalence in the regional population. 
Estimates specific to sex, area of residency, and diagnostic method were 
compared and trends analysed.
RESULTS: A total of 151 age-specific prevalence estimates were extracted from 39 
studies. Diabetes prevalence was estimated to be 7.47% for 2005 and 7.60% for 
2010. Prevalence was strongly associated with increased age, male gender and 
urban residency (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Diabetes prevalence in Southern Asia is high and predicted to 
increase in the future as life expectancy rises and the region continues to 
urbanise. Countries in this region need to improve NCD surveillance and 
monitoring so policies can be informed with the best evidence. Programs for 
prevention need to be put in place, and health system capacity and access needs 
to be assessed and increased to deal with the predicted rise in NCD prevalence.

DOI: 10.7189/jogh.04.010404
PMCID: PMC4073245
PMID: 24976963


636. ISRN Prev Med. 2013 Mar 4;2013:824670. doi: 10.5402/2013/824670. eCollection
 2013.

A six-month study of pulmonary cancer in Albanian women.

Nikolla J(1), Nanushi M(2), Vyshka G(3), Hafizi H(2).

Author information:
(1)Internal Diseases Department, Hygeia Hospital, Tirana 1005, Albania.
(2)University Hospital of Pulmonary Diseases, Tirana 1005, Albania.
(3)Biomedical and Experimental Department, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Tirana, Tirana 1005, Albania.

Lung cancer is a potentially lethal disease, whose prevalence in Albania is 
constantly increasing, especially in women. Early diagnosis is extremely 
important with regard to life expectancy and quality. The authors conducted a 
survey on the behaviour in a sample group of Albanian women diagnosed with 
primary and secondary lung cancers. A discussion upon diagnostic methods, 
smoking habits, histological type, Karnofsky performance status (KPS), and 
treatment modalities is made. The data collected by the authors suggest that 
nonsmokers formed the main group of lung cancer female patients. The most 
frequent histological type was adenocarcinoma. Mesothelioma was the most 
frequent of the secondary pulmonary lung cancers, followed from metastasizing 
breast cancer. Despite a generally good performance of the cases, the diagnosis 
of pulmonary cancer is delayed. The data collected could not find a convincing 
etiological role of tobacco smoking, but caution is needed, regarding the short 
time length of the study and the sustained number of participants.

DOI: 10.5402/2013/824670
PMCID: PMC4062866
PMID: 24977098


637. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):91-9. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2013.12.007.

Variations in ischemic heart disease burden by age, country, and income: the 
Global Burden of Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors 2010 study.

Moran AE(1), Tzong KY, Forouzanfar MH, Rothy GA, Mensah GA, Ezzati M, Murray CJ, 
Naghavi M.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine, Department of Medicine, Columbia University 
Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.

BACKGROUND: Ischemic heart disease (IHD) was the leading cause of disease burden 
worldwide in 2010. The majority of IHD burden affected middle-income regions. We 
hypothesized IHD burden may vary among countries, even within the same broad 
geographic region.
METHODS: Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) due to IHD were estimated at the 
region level for 7 “super-regions,” 21 regions, and 187 countries using 
geographically nested models for IHD mortality and prevalent nonfatal IHD 
(nonfatal acute myocardial infarction, angina pectoris, or ischemic heart 
failure). Acute myocardial infarction, angina, and heart failure disability 
weights were applied to prevalent cases. Absolute numbers of DALYs and 
age-standardized DALYs per 100,000 persons were estimated for each region and 
country in 1990 and 2010. IHD burden for world regions was analyzed by country, 
income, and age.
RESULTS: About two-thirds of 2010 IHD DALYs affected middle-income countries. In 
the North Africa/Middle East and South Asia regions, which have high IHD burden, 
more than 29% of men and 24% of women struck by IHD were <50 years old. 
Age-standardized IHD DALYs decreased in most countries between 1990 and 2010, 
but increased in a number of countries in the Eastern Europe/Central Asia region 
(>1,000 per 100,000 increase) and South Asia region (>175 per 100,000). 
Age-standardized DALYs varied by up to 8-fold among countries, by about 9,000 
per 100,000 among middle-income countries, about 7,400 among low-income 
countries, and about 4,300 among high-income countries.
CONCLUSIONS: The majority of IHD burden in 2010 affected middle-income regions, 
where younger adults were more likely to develop IHD in regions such as South 
Asia and North Africa/Middle East. However, IHD burden varied substantially by 
country within regions, especially among middle-income countries. A global or 
regional approach to IHD prevention will not be sufficient; research and policy 
should focus on the highest burden countries within regions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2013.12.007
PMCID: PMC4071302
PMID: 24977114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: All authors have 
no conflicts of interest to report.


638. Clin Biochem. 2014 Sep;47(13-14):1297-9. doi:
10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2014.06.010.  Epub 2014 Jun 28.

Brazilian reference values for MPS II screening in dried blood spots--a 
fluorimetric assay.

Rezende MM(1), Müller KB(2), Pereira VG(3), D'Almeida V(4).

Author information:
(1)Laboratório de Erros Inatos do Metabolismo, Department of Psychobiology, 
Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Rua Napoleão de Barros, 925, 3rd Floor, 
04024-002 São Paulo, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: marina.mrez@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Rua Botucatu, 
598, 04023-062 São Paulo, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: kbmuller@gmail.com.
(3)Laboratório de Erros Inatos do Metabolismo, Department of Psychobiology, 
Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Rua Napoleão de Barros, 925, 3rd Floor, 
04024-002 São Paulo, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: nessagp@yahoo.com.br.
(4)Laboratório de Erros Inatos do Metabolismo, Department of Psychobiology, 
Universidade Federal de São Paulo, Rua Napoleão de Barros, 925, 3rd Floor, 
04024-002 São Paulo, SP, Brazil. Electronic address: vaniadalmeida@uol.com.br.

OBJECTIVES: Mucopolysaccharidosis II (MPS II), or Hunter Syndrome, is a 
lysosomal storage disorder that is caused by the deficiency or absence of 
iduronate-2-sulfatase (IDS) enzyme; in this disease, early diagnosis is 
essential to provide higher life expectancy for patients. This study validates a 
fluorimetric assay that is used to assess IDS enzyme activity using dried blood 
spot (DBS) samples and presents the reference interval for the Brazilian 
population.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Venous blood sample was collected in heparin tubes for 
leukocyte extraction and DBS preparation. IDS activity in the leukocytes was 
analyzed, and the results were considered the gold standard reference for the 
categorization of volunteers as positive or negative controls (PC and NC, 
respectively). IDS activity in the DBS was analyzed using an adapted version of 
the leukocyte assay. Statistical analyses were performed using a ROC curve to 
determine cutoff values and using a parametric Student's t test to compare 
values between genders. To verify that the assay yielded consistent results, a 
Bland-Altman plot was prepared.
RESULTS: Leukocyte IDS activity values ranged between 2.71 and 17.36 nmol/mg 
protein/h in the NC group and between 0 and 0.11 nmol/mg protein/h in the PC 
group. Based on the DBS assay, activities ranged between 1.83 and 16.86 μmol/L 
blood/h in the NC group and between 0.58 and 4.32 μmol/L blood/h in the PC 
group.
CONCLUSIONS: Reference values of IDS activity were determined in DBS with 
acceptable sensitivity and specificity. Therefore, the DBS assay described in 
this work may be a useful tool to screen MPS II patients in the Brazilian 
population.

Copyright © 2014 The Canadian Society of Clinical Chemists. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinbiochem.2014.06.010
PMID: 24979053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


639. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2014 Sep 1;39(19):1620-7. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0000000000000473.

Survival analysis of breast cancer subtypes in patients with spinal metastases.

Wang M(1), Jensen AB, Morgen SS, Wu CS, Sun M, Li H, Dahl B, Bünger CE.

Author information:
(1)Departments of *Orthopaedic E and †Oncology, Aarhus University Hospital NBG, 
Aarhus C, Denmark ‡Spine Unit, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark; and §Section for Epidemiology, Department of Public Health, 
Aarhus University, Aarhus C, Denmark.

STUDY DESIGN: We conducted a retrospective cohort study of 151 patients with 
breast cancer spinal metastases.
OBJECTIVE: To investigate the influence of breast cancer subtypes on survival 
duration of patients with breast cancer spinal metastases, and to aid spine 
surgeons in selecting treatments on a more precise basis.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: There is lack of knowledge about specific prognosis 
of patients with spinal metastases in various breast cancer subtypes. Estrogen 
receptor (ER), progesterone receptor (PgR), and human epidermal growth factor 
receptor 2 (Her-2) status are the key factors in determining breast cancer 
subtypes and predicting patients' response to adjuvant treatments.
METHODS: Until August 2013, we retrieved 151 surgically treated patients with 
breast cancer spinal metastases and followed up all the patients for at least 2 
years. Survival duration analysis and Cox proportional hazards regression model 
unadjusted and adjusted by age were used.
RESULTS: Patients with ER-negative (-) breast cancer had 11 months shorter 
median survival duration (10.6 vs. 21.5 mo) and 48% higher mortality risk 
(P=0.03) than those with ER-positive (+) breast cancer. Patients with PgR (-) 
status had 59% higher mortality risk than those with PgR (+) status (P=0.02). 
Hormone receptor (HR) status is a combination of ER and PgR status. Patients 
with HR (-) status had an 11-month shorter median survival duration and 52% 
higher mortality risk (P=0.01) than patients with HR (+) status. Human epidermal 
growth factor receptor 2 subtypes had similar median survival duration and 
mortality risk. Patients with triple-negative breast cancer had a median 
survival duration of only 9.9 months.
CONCLUSION: Patients with spinal metastases with ER/HR (-) status and 
triple-negative breast cancer could be downgraded from score "5" to "3" in 
Tokuhashi scoring system and from "slow growth" to "moderate growth" in Tomita 
scoring system. Spine surgeons should be critical before performing high-risk 
extensive surgery in patients with ER/HR (-) status, and especially, in those 
with triple-negative status.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 3.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000000473
PMID: 24979144 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


640. JAMA Intern Med. 2014 Aug;174(8):1227-34. doi:
10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.2894.

Effect of patients' risks and preferences on health gains with plasma glucose 
level lowering in type 2 diabetes mellitus.

Vijan S(1), Sussman JB(1), Yudkin JS(2), Hayward RA(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Management Research, Ann Arbor Veterans Affairs Hospital, 
Ann Arbor, Michigan2Department of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor.
(2)Department of Medicine, University College London, London, England.

Comment in
    Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2014 Oct;139(44):2224.

IMPORTANCE: Type 2 diabetes mellitus is common, and treatment to correct blood 
glucose levels is standard. However, treatment burden starts years before 
treatment benefits accrue. Because guidelines often ignore treatment burden, 
many patients with diabetes may be overtreated.
OBJECTIVE: To examine how treatment burden affects the benefits of intensive vs 
moderate glycemic control in patients with type 2 diabetes.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: We estimated the effects of hemoglobin A1c 
(HbA1c) reduction on diabetes outcomes and overall quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) using a Markov simulation model. Model probabilities were based on 
estimates from randomized trials and observational studies. Simulated patients 
were based on adult patients with type 2 diabetes drawn from the National Health 
and Nutrition Examination Study.
INTERVENTIONS: Glucose lowering with oral agents or insulin in type 2 diabetes.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Main outcomes were QALYs and reduction in risk of 
microvascular and cardiovascular diabetes complications.
RESULTS: Assuming a low treatment burden (0.001, or 0.4 lost days per year), 
treatment that lowered HbA1c level by 1 percentage point provided benefits 
ranging from 0.77 to 0.91 QALYs for simulated patients who received a diagnosis 
at age 45 years to 0.08 to 0.10 QALYs for those who received a diagnosis at age 
75 years. An increase in treatment burden (0.01, or 3.7 days lost per year) 
resulted in HbA1c level lowering being associated with more harm than benefit in 
those aged 75 years. Across all ages, patients who viewed treatment as more 
burdensome (0.025-0.05 disutility) experienced a net loss in QALYs from 
treatments to lower HbA1c level.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Improving glycemic control can provide substantial 
benefits, especially for younger patients; however, for most patients older than 
50 years with an HbA1c level less than 9% receiving metformin therapy, 
additional glycemic treatment usually offers at most modest benefits. 
Furthermore, the magnitude of benefit is sensitive to patients' views of the 
treatment burden, and even small treatment adverse effects result in net harm in 
older patients. The current approach of broadly advocating intensive glycemic 
control should be reconsidered; instead, treating patients with HbA1c levels 
less than 9% should be individualized on the basis of estimates of benefit 
weighed against the patient's views of the burdens of treatment.

DOI: 10.1001/jamainternmed.2014.2894
PMCID: PMC4299865
PMID: 24979148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures: No conflicts on interest regarding 
this work.


641. J Appl Biomech. 2014 Aug;30(4):563-73. doi: 10.1123/jab.2013-0304. Epub 2014
Jun  30.

Pelvic rotation torque during fast-pitch softball hitting under three ball 
height conditions.

Iino Y(1), Fukushima A, Kojima T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, University 
of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

The purpose of this study was to investigate the relevance of hip joint angles 
to the production of the pelvic rotation torque in fast-pitch softball hitting 
and to examine the effect of ball height on this production. Thirteen advanced 
female softball players hit stationary balls at three different heights: high, 
middle, and low. The pelvic rotation torque, defined as the torque acting on the 
pelvis through the hip joints about the pelvic superior-inferior axis, was 
determined from the kinematic and force plate data using inverse dynamics. 
Irrespective of the ball heights, the rear hip extension, rear hip external 
rotation, front hip adduction, and front hip flexion torques contributed to the 
production of pelvic rotation torque. Although the contributions of the 
adduction and external rotation torques at each hip joint were significantly 
different among the ball heights, the contributions of the front and rear hip 
joint torques were similar among the three ball heights owing to cancelation of 
the two torque components. The timings of the peaks of the hip joint torque 
components were significantly different, suggesting that softball hitters may 
need to adjust the timings of the torque exertions fairly precisely to rotate 
the upper body effectively.

DOI: 10.1123/jab.2013-0304
PMID: 24979815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


642. J Miss State Med Assoc. 2014 Apr;55(4):128-9.

Health disparities, population health, and preventive medicine.

Mansour M.

PMID: 24979941 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


643. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2012 Sep 14;60(9):1-66.

U.S. decennial life tables for 1999-2001: state life tables.

Wei R, Anderson RN, Curtin LR, Arias E.

OBJECTIVE: This report, following publication of the national life tables (1,2) 
for 1999-2001, presents state-specific life tables for the 50 states and 
District of Columbia by race (white and black) and sex. These tables are the 
most recent in a series of decennial life tables for the United States.
METHODS: Data used to prepare these state-specific life tables include 
population counts by age on the census date of April 1, 2000; deaths occurring 
in the 3-year period of 1999-2001; and counts of U.S. resident births during 
1997-2001. Methods for calculating the life tables were modified from the 
previous decennial life tables to automate the smoothing of age-specific 
mortality data and to allow for the estimation of life tables for smaller 
population subgroups, which often had insufficient data available to estimate 
reliable life tables under the previous method. The current method allows for 
the estimation of life tables for the black population in six states, which were 
never previously published due to small numbers of deaths. Standard errors for 
estimating life expectancy and probability of dying are also presented in this 
report.
RESULTS: Among the 50 states, Hawaii had the highest life expectancy at birth 
during the 1999-2001 period at 80.23 years, and Mississippi had the lowest life 
expectancy at 73.88 years. Life expectancy for the District of Columbia was even 
lower at 73.09 years. State-specific life expectancy at birth improved from the 
previous decennial period (1989-1991) for all states and the District of 
Columbia. Life expectancy at age 65 ranged from 20.42 years in Hawaii to 16.61 
years in Kentucky. Life expectancy at age 65 also improved for all states except 
Kentucky.

PMID: 24979971 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


644. Natl Vital Stat Rep. 2013 May 8;61(4):1-117.

Deaths: final data for 2010.

Murphy SL, Xu J, Kochanek KD.

OBJECTIVE: This report presents final 2010 data on U.S. deaths, death rates, 
life expectancy, infant mortality, and trends by selected characteristics such 
as age, sex, Hispanic origin, race, state of residence, and cause of death.
METHODS: Information reported on death certificates, which is completed by 
funeral directors, attending physicians, medical examiners, and coroners, is 
presented in descriptive tabulations. The original records are filed in state 
registration offices. Statistical information is compiled in a national database 
through the Vital Statistics Cooperative Program of the Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention's National Center for Health Statistics. Causes of death 
are processed in accordance with the International Classification of Diseases, 
Tenth Revision.
RESULTS: In 2010, a total of 2,468,435 deaths were reported in the United 
States. The age-adjusted death rate was 747.0 deaths per 100,000 standard 
population, lower than the 2009 rate (749.6) and a record low rate. Life 
expectancy at birth rose 0.2 year, from 78.5 years in 2009 to a record high of 
78.7 in 2010. Age-specific death rates decreased for each age group under 85, 
although the decrease for ages 1-4 was not significant. The age-specific rate 
increased for ages 85 and over. The leading causes of death in 2010 remained the 
same as in 2009 for all but one of the 15 leading causes. Pneumonitis due to 
solids and liquids replaced Assault (homicide) as the 15th leading cause of 
death in 2010. The infant mortality rate decreased 3.8% to a historically low 
value of 6.15 deaths per 1,000 live births in 2010.
CONCLUSIONS: The decline of the age-adjusted death rate to a record low value 
for the United States, and the increase in life expectancy to a record high 
value of 78.7 years, are consistent with long-term trends in mortality.

PMID: 24979972 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


645. J Health Econ. 2014 Sep;37:98-112. doi: 10.1016/j.jhealeco.2014.06.003. Epub
 2014 Jun 12.

The heterogeneous effects of HIV testing.

Baird S(1), Gong E(2), McIntosh C(3), Özler B(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Otago and George Washington University, New Zealand.
(2)Middlebury College, United States.
