region. It occurs during the third and fourth decade of life and is 
predominantly seen in females. It presents clinically as a soft tissue mass in 
variable locations such as vulva, perianal region, buttock, or pelvis. 
Assessment of extent of the tumor by radiological evaluation is crucial for 
surgical planning; however, biopsy is essential to establish diagnosis. We 
present the radiological and pathological features seen in a 43-year-old female 
diagnosed with abdominal angiomyxoma with an unusual extension to the perineum.

DOI: 10.4103/2156-7514.131740
PMCID: PMC4060406
PMID: 24987570

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


676. J Food Prot. 2014 Jul;77(7):1133-41. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-13-428.

Prolonged shelf life and reduced drip loss of chicken filets by the use of 
carbon dioxide emitters and modified atmosphere packaging.

Holck AL(1), Pettersen MK(2), Moen MH(3), Sørheim O(2).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Food, Fisheries and Aquaculture Research, P.O. Box 
210, N-1431 Ås, Norway. askild.holck@nofima.no.
(2)Norwegian Institute of Food, Fisheries and Aquaculture Research, P.O. Box 
210, N-1431 Ås, Norway.
(3)Nortura SA, P.O. Box 360 Økern, 0513 Oslo, Norway.

Modified atmosphere packaging containing CO2 is widely used for extending the 
shelf life of chicken meat. Active packaging by adding CO2 emitter sachets to 
packages of meat is an alternative to traditional modified atmosphere packaging. 
The purpose of the study was to investigate the shelf life of chicken filets 
under different CO2 concentrations at 4°C storage. The inhibition of microbial 
growth was proportional to the CO2 concentration. Storage in 100% CO2 both with 
and without a CO2 emitter sachet gave a microbiological shelf-life extension of 
7 days compared with 60% CO2. Carnobacterium divergens, Carnobacterium sp., and 
Lactococcus sp. were the dominating species at the end of the storage period. 
During storage in pure CO2, the carbon dioxide dissolved in the meat and caused 
the collapse of the packages. The resulting squeeze of the meat lead to a severe 
increase in drip loss. The drip loss was reduced profoundly by using the CO2 
emitting sachet in the packages. The addition of CO2 emitters can easily be 
implemented at industrial packaging lines without reduction in production 
efficiency.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-13-428
PMID: 24988019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


677. Inform Health Soc Care. 2014 Sep-Dec;39(3-4):294-304. doi: 
10.3109/17538157.2014.931847. Epub 2014 Jul 2.

A methodological framework for the analysis of highly intensive, multimodal and 
heterogeneous data in the context of health-enabling technologies and 
ambient-assisted living.

Kohlmann M(1), Gietzelt M, Haux R, Song B, Wolf KH, Marschollek M.

Author information:
(1)Peter L. Reichertz Institute for Medical Informatics, University of 
Braunschweig - Institute of Technology and Hannover Medical School , 
Braunschweig , Germany.

BACKGROUND: When applying health-enabling technologies (HET), researchers are 
faced with analyzing highly intensive, multimodal and heterogeneous data sets. 
Experience has shown that there is a lack of understanding concerning the 
relationship of analysis methods suitable for such data sets and their 
appropriate application.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this paper is to describe the present situation 
when analyzing data of HET and the main problems in this context, to present a 
nomenclature suitable for analysis methods in the context of HET, to present an 
example dealing with geriatric diseases that highlights the problems and the 
urgent need for results and to explain some steps for future work.
METHODS: Nomenclatures as standard tools in information processing are applied.
RESULTS: We present an open three-axial mono-hierarchical nomenclature called 
SNOCAP-HET. Moreover, we explain other ideas to overcome the lack of 
systematization within the set of analysis methods suitable for HET.
CONCLUSIONS: Our approach allows for an extension of SNOCAP-HET and will allow 
for the development and evaluation of different measures for the appropriateness 
of analysis methods given a certain highly intensive, multimodal and 
heterogeneous data set in the context of HET. Our final future aim is to obtain 
better results when analyzing medical data.

DOI: 10.3109/17538157.2014.931847
PMID: 24988070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


678. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2014;158:A7819.

[Living longer, with more disease and less disability; trends in public health 
2000-2030].

[Article in Dutch]

Hoeymans N(1), Harbers MM, Hilderink HB.

Author information:
(1)Rijksinstituut voor Volksgezondheid en Milieu, Centrum Gezondheid en 
Maatschappij, Bilthoven.

The Dutch Public Health Status and Foresight report 2014 explores the future of 
public health in the Netherlands, using a trend scenario and four future 
scenarios. The trend scenario provides projections until 2030, based on the 
trends over the last decades and assuming the policy stays the same. After many 
years the unfavourable trends in lifestyle seem to have ended: the percentage of 
smokers is decreasing and the percentage of people who are overweight is no 
longer increasing. Life expectancy will continue to increase, but the 
differences between socioeconomic groups will not become smaller. Demographic 
changes (rise in the ageing population) and improvements in health care will 
contribute to an increase in the number of chronically ill which will increase 
from 5.3 million in 2011 to 7 million in 2030. However, most people with a 
chronic disease feel healthy, have no disabilities and participate fully in 
society. Health care expenditures rose from 9.5% of the GDP in 2000 to 14% in 
2012. How this growth will continue in the next years is uncertain.

PMID: 24988173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


679. Radiology. 2014 Nov;273(2):472-82. doi: 10.1148/radiol.14132629. Epub 2014
Jul  1.

Imaging for appendicitis: should radiation-induced cancer risks affect modality 
selection?

Kiatpongsan S(1), Meng L, Eisenberg JD, Herring M, Avery LL, Kong CY, 
Pandharipande PV.

Author information:
(1)From the Massachusetts General Hospital Institute for Technology Assessment, 
101 Merrimac St, 10th Floor, Boston, MA 02114 (S.K., L.M., J.D.E., M.H., C.Y.K., 
P.V.P.); Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of Medicine, 
Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand (S.K.); Department of Radiology, 
Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass (L.L.A., C.Y.K., P.V.P.); and 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Mass (C.Y.K., P.V.P.).

PURPOSE: To compare life expectancy (LE) losses attributable to three imaging 
strategies for appendicitis in adults-computed tomography (CT), ultrasonography 
(US) followed by CT for negative or indeterminate US results, and magnetic 
resonance (MR) imaging-by using a decision-analytic model.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this model, for each imaging strategy, LE losses for 
20-, 40-, and 65-year-old men and women were computed as a function of five key 
variables: baseline cohort LE, test performance, surgical mortality, risk of 
death from delayed diagnosis (missed appendicitis), and LE loss attributable to 
radiation-induced cancer death. Appendicitis prevalence, test performance, 
mortality rates from surgery and missed appendicitis, and radiation doses from 
CT were elicited from the published literature and institutional data. LE loss 
attributable to radiation exposure was projected by using a separate 
organ-specific model that accounted for anatomic coverage during a typical 
abdominopelvic CT examination. One- and two-way sensitivity analyses were 
performed to evaluate effects of model input variability on results.
RESULTS: Outcomes across imaging strategies differed minimally-for example, for 
20-year-old men, corresponding LE losses were 5.8 days (MR imaging), 6.8 days 
(combined US and CT), and 8.2 days (CT). This order was sensitive to differences 
in test performance but was insensitive to variation in radiation-induced cancer 
deaths. For example, in the same cohort, MR imaging sensitivity had to be 91% at 
minimum (if specificity were 100%), and MR imaging specificity had to be 62% at 
minimum (if sensitivity were 100%) to incur the least LE loss. Conversely, LE 
loss attributable to radiation exposure would need to decrease by 74-fold for 
combined US and CT, instead of MR imaging, to incur the least LE loss.
CONCLUSION: The specific imaging strategy used to diagnose appendicitis 
minimally affects outcomes. Paradigm shifts to MR imaging owing to concerns over 
radiation should be considered only if MR imaging test performance is very high.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.14132629
PMCID: PMC4209005
PMID: 24988435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


680. Acta Oncol. 2015 Feb;54(2):232-42. doi: 10.3109/0284186X.2014.933873. Epub
2014  Jul 2.

Psychometric properties of the Occupational Stress and Coping Inventory (AVEM) 
in a cancer population.

Rath HM(1), Steimann M, Ullrich A, Rotsch M, Zurborn KH, Koch U, Kriston L, 
Bergelt C.

Author information:
(1)Hamburg-Eppendorf University Medical Centre, Centre of Psychosocial Medicine, 
Department of Medical Psychology , Hamburg , Germany.

BACKGROUND: Although the Occupational Stress and Coping Inventory (AVEM) 
questionnaire is used to assess work behaviour during occupation-related 
oncological rehabilitation, little is known about its psychometric 
characteristics in cancer patients. Therefore, we analysed the psychometric 
properties of the AVEM in this group.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: The AVEM was administered to 477 cancer patients at the 
beginning of rehabilitation. The AVEM consists of 11 subscales that categorise 
patients into one of four types of work behaviour. We obtained data from several 
subgroups and analysed reliability using Cronbach's α. We performed a 
confirmatory factor analysis (CFA) of the dimensional structure proposed by the 
authors of the AVEM. In addition, we analysed the AVEM's predictive validity by 
examining work-related outcomes one year after the end of rehabilitation (N = 
336).
RESULTS: Similar to a population-based reference sample, half of the patients 
exhibited work behaviours that might be problematic in stressful working 
situations. The AVEM proved to be a reliable instrument, and the CFA supported 
the factor structure of the AVEM. The analyses of predictive validity suggest 
that work behaviour and mental health characteristics, that involve the tendency 
to feel overwhelmed and less motivated at work, might lead to an increased level 
of occupational stress one year post-rehabilitation.
DISCUSSION: The AVEM can be used during rehabilitation to assess the extent to 
which patients report work behaviours associated with occupational stress and 
dissatisfaction. Patients who exhibit the tendency to feel overwhelmed and 
helpless in stressful work situations should be identified early so they can be 
offered support.

DOI: 10.3109/0284186X.2014.933873
PMID: 24988540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


681. BMC Health Serv Res. 2014 Jul 3;14:287. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-287.

Willingness to pay for a quality-adjusted life year: an evaluation of attitudes 
towards risk and preferences.

Martín-Fernández J(1), Polentinos-Castro E, del Cura-González MI, Ariza-Cardiel 
G, Abraira V, Gil-LaCruz AI, García-Pérez S.

Author information:
(1)Consultorio Local de Villamanta (C,S Navalcarnero), Gerencia de Atención 
Primaria, Servicio Madrileño de Salud, Red de Investigación en Servicios 
Sanitarios y Enfermedades Crónicas (REDISSEC), Avda de la Libertad s/n, 
Villamanta 28610, Madrid, Spain. jmfernandez@salud.madrid.org.

BACKGROUND: This paper examines the Willingness to Pay (WTP) for a 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) expressed by people who attended the 
healthcare system as well as the association of attitude towards risk and other 
personal characteristics with their response.
METHODS: Health-state preferences, measured by EuroQol (EQ-5D-3L), were combined 
with WTP for recovering a perfect health state. WTP was assessed using 
close-ended, iterative bidding, contingent valuation method. Data on demographic 
and socioeconomic characteristics, as well as usage of health services by the 
subjects were collected. The attitude towards risk was evaluated by collecting 
risky behaviors data, by the subject's self-evaluation, and through lottery 
games.
RESULTS: Six hundred and sixty two subjects participated and 449 stated a 
utility inferior to 1. WTP/QALY ratios varied significantly when payments with 
personal money (mean €10,119; median €673) or through taxes (mean €28,187; 
median €915) were suggested. Family income, area income, higher education level, 
greater use of healthcare services, and the number of co-inhabitants were 
associated with greater WTP/QALY ratios. Age and female gender were associated 
with lower WTP/QALY ratios. Risk inclination was independently associated with a 
greater WTP/QALY when "out of pocket" payments were suggested. Clear 
discrepancies were demonstrated between linearity and neutrality towards risk 
assumptions and experimental results.
CONCLUSIONS: WTP/QALY ratios vary noticeably based on demographic and 
socioeconomic characteristics of the subject, but also on their attitude towards 
risk. Knowing the expression of preferences by patients from this outcome 
measurement can be of interest for health service planning.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-287
PMCID: PMC4083040
PMID: 24989615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


682. Neurosurg Rev. 2014 Oct;37(4):685-91. doi: 10.1007/s10143-014-0557-3. Epub
2014  Jul 4.

Case report of a de novo brainstem arteriovenous malformation in an 18-year-old 
male and review of the literature.

Kilbourn KJ(1), Spiegel G, Killory BD, Kureshi I.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery Hartford Hospital, 85 Seymour Street, Hartford, 
CT, 06102, USA, kentkilbourn@yahoo.com.

De novo intracerebral arteriovenous malformations (AVMs) are exceedingly rare 
with only seven reported cases in the literature. Although generally considered 
congenital by nature, the lesions do not manifest themselves clinically until 
the third or fourth decades of life. However, with the advent of improved 
imaging modalities and more frequent surveillance, an increasing number of de 
novo cases are being found challenging the concept AVMs develop in the 
perinatal/antenatal period. Alternatively, this phenomenon could represent a 
distinct entity in which lesion development occurs after birth. A PubMed search 
of "de novo cerebral arteriovenous malformation" was performed in which seven 
reported cases were found. The mean age at diagnosis was 14.7 years with a mean 
follow-up imaging study of 5.8 years. Lesion location was supratentorial in all 
previously described cases. This case involves an 18-year-old male with 
congenital hydrocephalus and seizures diagnosed at 7 months of age. The patient 
underwent a ventriculoperitoneal shunt and was followed frequently by a 
neurologist. The last diagnostic imaging was an unremarkable MRI of the brain at 
age 12. Seven years later, the patient presented with an intracerebral 
hemorrhage. A CT angiogram demonstrated a large brainstem AVM with an 
intraparenchymal hemorrhage and intraventricular extension. This case is unique 
in that it is the first infratentorial de novo AVM. The congenital nature of 
AVMs is challenged with the increasingly described series of patients with 
previously documented normal radiographic imaging. This suggests there may be a 
subset of patients genetically predisposed to postnatal development of AVMs.

DOI: 10.1007/s10143-014-0557-3
PMID: 24989693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


683. Prev Med. 2014 Aug;65:148-52. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2014.05.023. Epub 2014
Jun 2.

The combined effect on survival of four main behavioural risk factors for 
non-communicable diseases.

Martin-Diener E(1), Meyer J(2), Braun J(3), Tarnutzer S(4), Faeh D(5), Rohrmann 
S(6), Martin BW(7).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Hirschengraben 84, Zürich CH-8001, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
eva.martin@ifspm.uzh.ch.
(2)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Hirschengraben 84, Zürich CH-8001, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
julia.meyer@ifspm.uzh.ch.
(3)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Hirschengraben 84, Zürich CH-8001, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
julia.braun@ifspm.uzh.ch.
(4)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Hirschengraben 84, Zürich CH-8001, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
silvan.tarnutzer@ifspm.uzh.ch.
(5)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Hirschengraben 84, Zürich CH-8001, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
david.faeh@uzh.ch.
(6)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Hirschengraben 84, Zürich CH-8001, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
sabine.rohrmann@ifspm.uzh.ch.
(7)Institute of Social and Preventive Medicine, University of Zurich, 
Hirschengraben 84, Zürich CH-8001, Switzerland. Electronic address: 
brian.martin@uzh.ch.

OBJECTIVE: To quantify and illustrate the combined effects of WHO's four 
behavioural risk factors for non-communicable diseases (NCDs) on mortality.
METHODS: Participants (n=16,721) were part of two Swiss population studies 
conducted between 1977 and 1993. Smoking status, alcohol consumption, physical 
activity and diet were assessed at baseline. With record linkage in 2008, up to 
31years of follow-up with 3,533 deaths could be recorded. Mortality was assessed 
with Cox proportional hazard models for each risk factor and their combinations. 
Ten-year survival probabilities for 65- and 75-year-olds were estimated with 
Weibull regression models.
RESULTS: Hazard ratios for the combination of all four risk factors compared to 
none were 2.41 (1.99-2.93) in men and 2.46 (1.88-3.22) in women. For 
65-year-olds, the probability of surviving the next 10years was 86% for men with 
no risk factors and 67% for men with four. In women, the respective numbers were 
90% and 77%. In 75-year-olds, probabilities were 67% and 35% in men, and 74% and 
47% in women.
CONCLUSIONS: The combined impact of four behavioural NCD risk factors on 
survival probability was comparable in size to a 10-year age difference and 
bigger than the gender effect.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2014.05.023
PMID: 24989976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


684. Hepatology. 2014 Jul;60(1):46-55. doi: 10.1002/hep.26934. Epub 2014 May 27.

Population health impact and cost-effectiveness of monitoring inactive chronic 
hepatitis B and treating eligible patients in Shanghai, China.

Toy M(1), Salomon JA, Jiang H, Gui H, Wang H, Wang J, Richardus JH, Xie Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Global Health and Population, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Boston, MA, USA; Department of Public Health, Erasmus Medical Centre, Rotterdam, 
the Netherlands.

Comment in
    Hepatology. 2014 Jul;60(1):19-21.

Inactive chronic hepatitis B (CHB) carriers make up the largest group of 
hepatitis B virus-infected patients, and China bears the largest total CHB 
burden of any country. We therefore assessed the population health impact and 
cost-effectiveness of a strategy of lifelong monitoring for inactive CHB and 
treatment of eligible patients in Shanghai, China. We used a computer simulation 
model to project health outcomes among a population cohort of CHB based on 
age-specific prevalence of hepatitis B surface antigen (HBsAg), hepatitis B e 
antigen (HBeAg), and cirrhosis. Using a Markov model we simulated patients' 
progression through a discrete series of health states, and compared current 
practice to a monitor and treat (M&T) strategy. We measured lifetime costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) (both discounted at 3% per year), 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs), and clinical outcomes such as 
development of hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC). We estimated that there are 1.5 
million CHB-infected persons in Shanghai. The M&T strategy costs US$20,730 per 
patient and yields a discounted QALY of 15.45, which represents incremental 
costs and health benefits of US$275 and 0.10 QALYs compared to current practice, 
and an ICER of US$2,996 per QALY gained. In the base case, we estimated that the 
M&T strategy will reduce HCC and CHB-related mortality by only around 1%. If 
variables such as adherence to monitoring and treatment could be substantially 
improved the M&T strategy could reduce HCC by 70% and CHB-related mortality by 
83%.
CONCLUSION: Lifelong monitoring of inactive CHB carriers is cost-effective in 
Shanghai according to typical benchmarks for value for money, but achieving 
substantial population-level health gains depends on identifying more 
CHB-infected cases in the population, and increasing rates of treatment, 
monitoring, and treatment adherence.

© 2014 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.26934
PMID: 24990105 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


685. Int J Psychol. 2014 Aug;49(4):313-7. doi: 10.1002/ijop.12025. Epub 2013 Nov
11.

Closing the empathy gap in college students' judgments of end-of-life tradeoffs.

Stephens JD(1), Neal DS, Overman AA.

Author information:
(1)Psychology Department, North Carolina Agricultural and Technical State 
University, Greensboro, NC, USA.

When considering hypothetical end-of-life (EOL) scenarios involving 80-year-old 
intensive-care unit patients, young adults are more likely than older adults to 
judge that shorter lifespan would be a fair trade in exchange for a more 
pleasant death. This result has been interpreted in terms of an empathy gap, in 
which individuals fail to relate to the affective states of others. If so, the 
effect should be reduced when young adults consider scenarios involving patients 
similar to themselves. The present study examined college students' willingness 
to trade healthy lifespan for better death in EOL scenarios involving 
80-year-old and 22-year-old cancer victims. Results indicated students under 30 
were less likely to trade lifespan in the 22-year-old scenarios, and were less 
likely to trade lifespan in either set of scenarios when the 22-year-old 
scenarios were presented first. The findings are consistent with an empathy gap 
account of judgments concerning EOL care.

© 2013 International Union of Psychological Science.

DOI: 10.1002/ijop.12025
PMCID: PMC4083593
PMID: 24990643 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


686. Med Decis Making. 2014 Nov;34(8):1016-29. doi: 10.1177/0272989X14539731.
Epub  2014 Jul 2.

Opportunity cost of funding drugs for rare diseases: the cost-effectiveness of 
eculizumab in paroxysmal nocturnal hemoglobinuria.

Coyle D(1), Cheung MC(2), Evans GA(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Community Medicine, University of Ottawa, 
Ottawa, Canada (DC)
(2)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Odette 
Cancer Center, University of Toronto, Toronto, ON, Canada (MCC)
(3)Division of Infectious Diseases, Department of Medicine, Kingston General 
Hospital and Queen's University, Kingston, ON, Canada (GAE).

Comment in
    Med Decis Making. 2015 Feb;35(2):145-7.
    Med Decis Making. 2015 Feb;35(2):143-4.

BACKGROUND: Both ethical and economics concerns have been raised with respect to 
the funding of drugs for rare diseases. This article reports both the 
cost-effectiveness of eculizumab for the treatment of paroxysmal nocturnal 
hemoglobinuria (PNH) and its associated opportunity costs.
METHODS: Analysis compared eculizumab plus current standard of care v. current 
standard of care from a publicly funded health care system perspective. A Markov 
model covered the major consequences of PNH and treatment. Cost-effectiveness 
was assessed in terms of the incremental cost per life year and per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Opportunity costs were assessed by the 
health gains foregone and the alternative uses for the additional resources.
RESULTS: Eculizumab is associated with greater life years (1.13), QALYs (2.45), 
and costs (CAN$5.24 million). The incremental cost per life year and per QALY 
gained is CAN$4.62 million and CAN$2.13 million, respectively. Based on 
established thresholds, the opportunity cost of funding eculizumab is 102.3 
discounted QALYs per patient funded. Sensitivity and subgroup analysis confirmed 
the robustness of the results. If the acquisition cost of eculizumab was reduced 
by 98.5%, it could be considered cost-effective.
LIMITATIONS: The nature of rare diseases means that data are often sparse for 
the conduct of economic evaluations. When data were limited, assumptions were 
made that biased results in favor of eculizumab.
CONCLUSIONS: This study demonstrates the feasibility of conducting economic 
evaluations in the context of rare diseases. Eculizumab may provide substantive 
benefits to patients with PNH in terms of life expectancy and quality of life 
but at a high incremental cost and a substantial opportunity cost. Decision 
makers should fully consider the opportunity costs before making positive 
reimbursement decisions.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X14539731
PMID: 24990825 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


687. J Theor Biol. 2014 Oct 7;358:232-45. doi: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2014.06.014. Epub
2014  Jun 30.

Evolution of lifespan.

Neill D(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Newcastle, Wear Base Unit, Monkwearmouth Hospital, Newcastle 
Road, Sunderland SR5 1NB, UK. Electronic address: david.neill@ncl.ac.uk.

Present-day evolutionary theory, modern synthesis and evo-devo, appear to 
explain evolution. There remain however several points of contention. These 
include: biological time, direction, macroevolution verses microevolution, 
ageing and the extent of internal as opposed to external mediation. A new 
theoretical model for the control of biological time in vertebrates/bilaterians 
is introduced. Rather than biological time being controlled solely by a 
molecular cascade domino effect, it is suggested there is also an intracellular 
oscillatory clock. This clock (life's timekeeper) is synchronised across all 
cells in an organism and runs at a constant frequency throughout life. Slower 
frequencies extend lifespan, increase body/brain size and advance behaviour. 
They also create a time void which could aid additional evolutionary change. 
Faster frequencies shorten lifespan, reduce body/brain size and diminish 
behaviour. They are therefore less likely to mediate evolution in 
vertebrates/mammals. It is concluded that in vertebrates, especially mammals, 
there is a direction in evolution towards longer lifespan/advanced behaviour. 
Lifespan extension could equate with macroevolution and subsequent modifications 
with microevolution. As life's timekeeper controls the rate of ageing it 
constitutes a new genetic theory of ageing. Finally, as lifespan extension is 
internally mediated, this suggests a major role for internal mediation in 
evolution.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jtbi.2014.06.014
PMID: 24992233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


688. Vaccine. 2014 Aug 20;32(37):4778-85. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.06.003.
Epub  2014 Jun 30.

Prevention of group B streptococcal disease in the first 3 months of life: would 
routine maternal immunization during pregnancy be cost-effective?

Oster G(1), Edelsberg J(2), Hennegan K(3), Lewin C(4), Narasimhan V(5), Slobod 
K(6), Edwards MS(7), Baker CJ(8).

Author information:
(1)Policy Analysis Inc. (PAI), Four Davis Court, Brookline, MA 02445, USA. 
Electronic address: goster@pai2.com.
(2)Policy Analysis Inc. (PAI), Four Davis Court, Brookline, MA 02445, USA. 
Electronic address: edelsberg@pai2.com.
(3)Policy Analysis Inc. (PAI), Four Davis Court, Brookline, MA 02445, USA. 
Electronic address: khennegan@pai2.com.
(4)Novartis Vaccines and Diagnostics, One Health Plaza, Building 431, 5(th) 
Floor, East Hanover, NJ 07936, USA. Electronic address: 
clement.lewin@novartis.com.
(5)Novartis Vaccines, 300 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. 
Electronic address: vas.narasimhan@novartis.com.
(6)Novartis Vaccines, 300 Massachusetts Avenue, Cambridge, MA 02139, USA. 
Electronic address: karen.slobod@novartis.com.
(7)Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, 
#302A, Houston, TX 77030, USA. Electronic address: morvene@bcm.edu.
(8)Department of Pediatrics, Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, 
#302A, Houston, TX 77030, USA; Department of Molecular Virology & Microbiology, 
Baylor College of Medicine, One Baylor Plaza, Mailstop BCM320, Houston, TX 
77030, USA. Electronic address: cbaker@bcm.edu.

BACKGROUND: A vaccine against group B streptococcus (GBS) that is intended for 
routine maternal immunization during pregnancy is in clinical development. 
Addition of vaccination to screening and intrapartum antibiotic prophylaxis 
(IAP) may further reduce the burden of GBS disease in infancy; its potential 
cost-effectiveness is unknown, however.
METHODS: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of routine immunization at week 28 
of pregnancy with the trivalent GBS (serotypes Ia, Ib and III) vaccine that is 
in clinical development. The vaccine was assumed to be used in addition to 
screening and IAP, and reduce the risk of invasive infection in infancy due to 
covered serotypes. We estimated the effectiveness of immunization in terms of 
additional cases of GBS disease prevented, deaths averted, life-years saved, and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained; potential reductions in prematurity 
and stillbirths were not considered. Costs considered included those of acute 
care for infants with GBS disease, and chronic care for those with long-term 
disability. The cost of immunization was assumed to be $100 per person.
RESULTS: Assuming 85% coverage, routine maternal immunization against GBS added 
to screening and IAP would prevent an additional 899 cases of GBS disease and an 
additional 35 deaths among infants in the US. The total annual cost of 
immunization would be $362.7 million; estimated cost savings from prevention of 
GBS disease in infancy would be $43.5 million. The cost-effectiveness of 
immunization was estimated to be $91,321 per QALY gained. Findings were 
sensitive to assumptions regarding vaccine efficacy and cost.
CONCLUSIONS: Addition of a trivalent GBS maternal vaccine to screening and IAP 
might further reduce the burden of GBS disease among infants in the US, and may 
be comparable in cost-effectiveness to other vaccines recently approved for use 
in children and adolescents.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.06.003
PMID: 24992717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


689. Dement Geriatr Cogn Disord. 2014;38(5-6):286-99. doi: 10.1159/000362926.
Epub  2014 Jul 3.

Risk factors that affect life expectancy in Alzheimer's disease: a 15-year 
follow-up.

Wattmo C(1), Londos E, Minthon L.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences, Malmö, Lund 
University, Malmö, Sweden.

BACKGROUNDS/AIMS: Future disease-modifying therapies might affect the expected 
life span in Alzheimer's disease (AD). Our aim was to identify factors that 
influence life expectancy in cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI)-treated patients.
METHODS: This study included 791 deceased individuals with a clinical diagnosis 
of AD and a Mini-Mental State Examination score of 10-26 at baseline who were 
recruited from a 3-year, prospective, multicenter study of ChEI therapy in 
clinical practice. The participants' date of death was recorded and their 
survival was compared with the gender- and age-matched general population.
RESULTS: The mean survival time after the start of ChEI therapy (time of AD 
diagnosis) was 5.10 years for men and 6.12 years for women. Better cognitive 
ability, less impaired basic functional capacity, and fewer medications, but not 
education level or apolipoprotein E (APOE) genotype, were independent prognostic 
factors of longer survival after diagnosis, after controlling for gender and 
age.
CONCLUSION: AD shortens life expectancy in ChEI-treated patients diagnosed 
before the age of 85 years, similar to that reported previously for untreated 
individuals. A longer life span was observed in the eldest patients (≥85 years) 
compared with untreated cohorts, which did not differ from that observed in the 
general population. Higher education or carrying two APOE ε4 alleles were risk 
factors for earlier death.

DOI: 10.1159/000362926
PMID: 24992891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


690. EMBO Mol Med. 2014 Aug;6(8):995-1002. doi: 10.15252/emmm.201403959.

TORC2-a new player in genome stability.

Weisman R(1), Cohen A(2), Gasser SM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Natural and Life Sciences, The Open University of Israel, 
Raanana, Israel ronitwe@openu.ac.il susan.gasser@fmi.ch.
(2)Department of Natural and Life Sciences, The Open University of Israel, 
Raanana, Israel.
(3)Friedrich Miescher Institute for Biomedical Research, Basel, Switzerland 
ronitwe@openu.ac.il susan.gasser@fmi.ch.

The inhibition of the central growth regulatory kinase TOR, which participates 
in two complexes, TORC1 and TORC2, has been a focus of metabolic and cancer 
studies for many years. Most studies have dealt with TORC1, the canonical target 
of rapamycin, and the role of this complex in autophagy, protein synthesis, and 
cell growth control. Recent work on TORC2 in budding and fission yeast species 
points to a conserved role of this lesser-known TOR complex in the survival of 
DNA damage. In budding yeast, TORC2 controls lipid biosynthesis and actin 
cytoskeleton through downstream AGC kinases, which are now, surprisingly, 
implicated in the survival of oxidative DNA damage. Preliminary data from mTORC2 
modulation in cancer cells suggest that an extension to human chemotherapy is 
worth exploring.

© 2014 The Authors. Published under the terms of the CC BY 4.0 license.

DOI: 10.15252/emmm.201403959
PMCID: PMC4154128
PMID: 24992933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


691. Heart. 2014 Nov;100(21):1681-7. doi: 10.1136/heartjnl-2014-305673. Epub 2014
Jul  3.

Cost-effectiveness of eplerenone in patients with systolic heart failure and 
mild symptoms.

Lee D(1), Wilson K(2), Akehurst R(1), Cowie MR(3), Zannad F(4), Krum H(5), van 
Veldhuisen DJ(6), Vincent J(7), Pitt B(8), McMurray JJ(9); Eplerenone in Mild 
Patients Hospitalization And Survival Study in Heart Failure (EMPHASIS-HF) 
Study.

Author information:
(1)BresMed, Sheffield, UK.
(2)Health Economic and Outcomes Research, Pfizer Ltd, Surrey, UK.
(3)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College (Royal Brompton Hospital) 
London, London, UK.
(4)CHU and Department of Cardiology, Inserm, Centre d'Investigation Clinique CIC 
9501 and U961, Nancy University, Nancy, France.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Centre of Cardiovascular 
Research and Education in Therapeutics, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.
(6)Department of Cardiology, Thorax Centre, University Medical Centre, 
Groningen, The Netherlands.
(7)Pfizer, Inc., New York, USA.
(8)University of Michigan School of Medicine, Ann Arbor, Michigan, USA.
(9)The British Heart Foundation Cardiovascular Research Centre, University of 
Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

AIM: In the Eplerenone in Mild Patients Hospitalization and Survival Study in 
Heart Failure (EMPHASIS-HF), aldosterone blockade with eplerenone decreased 
mortality and hospitalisation in patients with mild symptoms (New York Heart 
Association class II) and chronic systolic heart failure (HF). The present study 
evaluated the cost-effectiveness of eplerenone in the treatment of these 
patients in the UK and Spain.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Results from the EMPHASIS-HF trial were used to develop a 
discrete-event simulation model estimating lifetime direct costs and effects 
(life years and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained) of the addition of 
eplerenone to standard care among patients with chronic systolic HF and mild 
symptoms. Eplerenone plus standard care compared with standard care alone 
increased lifetime direct costs per patient by £4284 for the UK and €7358 for 
Spain, with additional quality-adjusted life expectancy of 1.22 QALYs for the UK 
and 1.33 QALYs for Spain. Mean lifetime costs were £3520 per QALY in the UK and 
€5532 per QALY in Spain. Probabilistic sensitivity analysis suggested a 100% 
likelihood of eplerenone being regarded as cost-effective at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of £20 000 per QALY (UK) or €30 000 per QALY 
(Spain).
CONCLUSIONS: By currently accepted standards of value for money, the addition of 
eplerenone to optimal medical therapy for patients with chronic systolic HF and 
mild symptoms is likely to be cost-effective.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/heartjnl-2014-305673
PMCID: PMC4215293
PMID: 24993605 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


692. J Cardiol. 2015 Mar;65(3):216-23. doi: 10.1016/j.jjcc.2014.06.001. Epub 2014
Jun  30.

Predictors of long-term (10-year) mortality postmyocardial infarction: 
age-related differences. Soroka Acute Myocardial Infarction (SAMI) Project.

Plakht Y(1), Shiyovich A(2), Gilutz H(3).

Author information:
(1)Nursing Research Unit, Soroka University Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, Israel; 
Recanati School for Community Health Professions, Faculty of Health Sciences, 
Ben-Gurion University of the Negev, Beer-Sheva, Israel. Electronic address: 
Plakht@exchange.bgu.ac.il.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine E, Rabin Medical Center, Beilinson Hospital, 
Petah-Tikva, Israel.
(3)Department of Cardiology, Soroka University Medical Center, Beer-Sheva, 
Israel.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular diseases are the leading cause of death in elderly 
people. Over the past decades medical advancements in the management of patients 
with acute myocardial infarction (AMI) led to improved survival and increased 
life expectancy. As short-term survival from AMI improves, more attention is 
being shifted toward understanding and improving long-term outcomes.
AIM: To evaluate age-associated variations in the long-term (up to 10 years) 
prognostic factors following AMI in "real world" patients, focusing on improving 
risk stratification of elderly patients.
METHODS: A retrospective analysis of 2763 consecutive AMI patients according to 
age groups: ≤65 years (n=1230) and >65 years (n=1533). Data were collected from 
the hospital's computerized systems. The primary outcome was 10-year 
postdischarge all-cause mortality.
RESULTS: Higher rates of women, non-ST-elevation AMI, and most comorbidities 
were found in elderly patients, while the rates of invasive treatment were 
lower. During the follow-up period, mortality rate was higher among the older 
versus the younger group (69.7% versus 18.6%). Some of the parameters included 
in the interaction multivariate model had stronger association with the outcome 
in the younger group (hyponatremia, anemia, alcohol abuse or drug addiction, 
malignant neoplasm, renal disease, previous myocardial infarction, and invasive 
interventions) while others were stronger predictors in the elderly group 
(higher age, left main coronary artery or three-vessel disease, and neurological 
disorders). The c-statistic values of the multivariate models were 0.75 and 0.74 
in the younger and the elder groups, respectively, and 0.86 for the interaction 
model.
CONCLUSIONS: Long-term mortality following AMI in young as well as elderly 
patients can be predicted from simple, easily accessible clinical information. 
The associations of most predictors and mortality were stronger in younger 
patients. These predictors can be used for optimizing patient care aiming at 
mortality reduction.

Copyright © 2014 Japanese College of Cardiology. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jjcc.2014.06.001
PMID: 24994020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


693. J Clin Diagn Res. 2014 May;8(5):CC05-7. doi: 10.7860/JCDR/2014/7908.4351.
Epub  2014 May 15.

Assessment of obesity, overweight and its association with the fast food 
consumption in medical students.

Shah T(1), Purohit G(2), Nair SP(3), Patel B(4), Rawal Y(5), Shah RM(6).

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, Department of Biochemistry, SBKS MI & RC, Sumandeep 
Vidyapeeth , Piparia, Vadodara, Gujarat, India .
(2)Assistant Professor, Department of Physiology, SBKS MI & RC, Sumandeep 
Vidyapeeth , Piparia, Vadodara, Gujarat, India .
(3)Assistant Professor, Department of Biochemistry, B.J.M.C , Ahmedabad, 
Gujarat, India .
(4)PhD Student, Department of Biochemistry, SBKS MI & RC, Sumandeep Vidyapeeth , 
Piparia, Vadodara, Gujarat, India .
(5)U.G Student, Department of Biochemistry, SBKS MI & RC, Sumandeep Vidyapeeth , 
Piparia, Vadodara, Gujarat, India .
(6)Professor and HOD, Department of Biochemistry, SBKS MI & RC, Sumandeep 
Vidyapeeth , Piparia, Vadodara, Gujarat, India.

INTRODUCTION: Obesity is a condition in which excess body fat accumulates, which 
leads to various adverse effects on health, particularly cardiovascular diseases 
(CVDs), which reduce life expectancy and/or increase health problems. Fast food 
consumption is one of the factors which have been reported as a cause of 
obesity. Body mass index (BMI) is used to assess obesity and overweight, which 
can be calculated by using the formula, weight in kg, divided by square of 
height in metres.
AIM: This study focused on the relationship of body mass index with fast food 
consumption, associated soft drink consumption and physical activity.
METHODS: Descriptive cross-sectional study was conducted in Department of 
Biochemistry, SBKS MI and RC, and Sumandeep Vidyapeeth. This study was approved 
by the ethical review board .One hundred and forty seven medical students from 
1(st) year MBBS course were included in this study. Self-structured 
questionnaire was used, which contained several data like information on age, 
height, weight, education level. The formula used for calculating BMI was, 
weight in kg, divided by square of height in metres (Kg/m(2)).
RESULTS: In our study, out of 147 students, a total of 138 students (more than 
90%) used to have fast food. Among these, a total of 47 students (34.05%) were 
pre-obese and obese. Out of 147 students, 87 students (59.18%) were in normal 
weight range, while 13 (8.84%) students were underweight.
STATISTICAL ANALYSIS: Data was compiled in an Excel worksheet and it was 
analyzed for percentages and proportions. Chi-square and Pearson's correlation 
test were also applied wherever they were applicable and Alpha error was set at 
a 5% level.
CONCLUSION: In our study, a significant relationship was found between BMI and 
fast food consumption, less physical activity, and intake of soft drinks.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2014/7908.4351
PMCID: PMC4079991
PMID: 24995170


694. J Dent. 2014 Aug;42(8):902-7. doi: 10.1016/j.jdent.2014.03.001. Epub 2014
Jul 1.

Cost-effectiveness of silicone and alginate impressions for complete dentures.

Hulme C(1), Yu G(1), Browne C(1), O'Dwyer J(1), Craddock H(2), Brown S(3), Gray 
J(3), Pavitt S(4), Fernandez C(3), Godfrey M(4), Dukanovic G(5), Brunton P(6), 
Hyde TP(7).

Author information:
(1)Academic Unit of Health Economics, Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, 
University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9LJ, UK.
(2)University of Aberdeen Dental School, Cornhill Road, Aberdeen AB25 2ZR, UK.
(3)Leeds Institute of Clinical Trials Research, University of Leeds, Leeds 
LS29JT, UK.
(4)Leeds Institute of Health Sciences, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9LJ, UK.
(5)Dental Translational Clinical Research Unit (DenTCRU), Leeds Dental 
Institute, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9LU, UK.
(6)Leeds Dental Institute, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9LU, UK; Faculty of 
Dentistry, University of Otago, Dunedin, New Zealand.
(7)Leeds Dental Institute, University of Leeds, Leeds LS2 9LU, UK. Electronic 
address: t.p.hyde@leeds.ac.uk.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess the cost effectiveness of 
silicone and alginate impressions for complete dentures.
METHODS: Cost effectiveness analyses were undertaken alongside a UK single 
centre, double blind, controlled, crossover clinical trial. Taking the 
perspective of the healthcare sector, effectiveness is measured using the 
EuroQol (EQ-5D-3L) which provides a single index value for health status that 
may be combined with time to produce quality adjusted life years (QALYs); and 
Oral Health Impact Profile (OHIP-EDENT). Incremental cost effectiveness ratios 
are presented representing the additional cost per one unit gained.
RESULTS: Mean cost was higher in the silicone impression group (£388.57 vs. 
£363.18). Negligible between-group differences were observed in QALY gains; the 
silicone group had greater mean OHIP-EDENT gains. The additional cost using 
silicone was £3.41 per change of one point in the OHIP-EDENT.
CONCLUSIONS: The silicone group was more costly, driven by the cost of 
materials. Changes in the EQ-5D and QALY gains over time and between arms were 
not statistically significant. Change in OHIP-EDENT score showed greater 
improvement in the silicone group and the difference between arms was 
statistically significant. Given negligible QALY gains and low level of resource 
use, results must be treated with caution. It is difficult to make robust claims 
about the comparative cost-effectiveness.
CLINICAL SIGNIFICANCE: Silicone impressions for complete dentures improve 
patients' quality of life (OHIP-EDENT score). The extra cost of silicone 
impressions is £30 per patient. Dentists, patients and health care funders need 
to consider the clinical and financial value of silicone impressions. Different 
patients, different dentists, different health funders will have individual 
perceptions and judgements. ISRCTN01528038. NIHR-RfPB grant PB-PG-0408-16300. 
This article forms part of a project for which the author (TPH) won the Senior 
Clinical Unilever Hatton Award of the International Assocation for Dental 
Research, Capetown, South Africa, June 2014.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdent.2014.03.001
PMCID: PMC4119300
PMID: 24995472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


695. J Asthma. 2015 Mar;52(2):205-10. doi: 10.3109/02770903.2014.941474. Epub
2014  Nov 24.

Cost-effectiveness of omalizumab in severe persistent asthma in Spain: a 
real-life perspective.

Levy AN(1), García A Ruiz AJ, García-Agua Soler N, Sanjuan MV.

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neumología, Hospital Universitario Virgen de la Victoria , Málaga 
, Spain and.

OBJECTIVES: To determine the cost-effectiveness of omalizumab compared with 
routine clinical practice in the treatment and control of severe persistent 
asthma.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis using pre- and post-treatment with 
omalizumab after 10 months of 47 patients diagnosed with uncontrolled severe 
persistent asthma attended by the Pneumology Service, Hospital Universitario 
Virgen de la Victoria, Malaga. Effectiveness was assessed by the number of 
emergency room (ER) visits for exacerbations and quality-adjusted life years 
(QALY) gained. The costs of treatment with omalizumab and ER visits were 
analyzed using the National Health System perspective. Results are expressed in 
cost per QALY gained and cost per ER visit avoided (costs €2012).
RESULTS: Exacerbations with ER visits decreased significantly (p < 0.001) after 
10 months of omalizumab treatment compared with the previous 10 months [7.94 
(6.52-9.37) vs 0.19 (0.03-0.35)]. Health utilities increased significantly 
(p < 0.001) during the same period [0.5967 (0.5722-0.6212) vs 0.7566 
(0.7232-0.7900)], representing 0.1333 (0.1053-0.1612) QALYs gained 
(p < 0.001).The mean cost per patient was €1850.78 (1519.46-2182.10) in the 10 
months before treatment and €5431.87 (4930.72-5933.02) after 10 months of 
omalizumab treatment. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were 
€462.08/exacerbation avoided (347.65-606.22) and €26 864.89/QALY gained 
(21 632.07-33 859.49).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results confirm that adding omalizumab to the treatment of 
patients with uncontrolled severe persistent asthma reduces the number of 
exacerbations with ER visits and increases health-related quality of life after 
10 months of treatment and produces ICERs favorable to omalizumab and acceptable 
from the health system perspective.

DOI: 10.3109/02770903.2014.941474
PMID: 24995661 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


696. Scand J Med Sci Sports. 2015 Oct;25(5):630-9. doi: 10.1111/sms.12289. Epub
2014  Jul 4.

Neuromuscular response differences to power vs strength back squat exercise in 
elite athletes.

Brandon R(1)(2), Howatson G(3)(4), Strachan F(5), Hunter AM(2).

Author information:
(1)English Institute of Sport, Marlow, UK.
(2)Health and Exercise Research Group, University of Stirling, Stirling, UK.
(3)Faculty of Health and Life Sciences, Northumbria University, Newcastle, UK.
(4)Water Research Group, School of Environmental Sciences and Development, 
Northwest University, Potchefstroom, South Africa.
(5)Institute of Aquaculture, University of Stirling, Stirling, UK.

The study's aim was to establish the neuromuscular responses in elite athletes 
during and following maximal 'explosive' regular back squat exercise at heavy, 
moderate, and light loads. Ten elite track and field athletes completed 10 sets 
of five maximal squat repetitions on three separate days. Knee extension maximal 
isometric voluntary contraction (MIVC), rate of force development (RFD) and 
evoked peak twitch force (Pt) assessments were made pre- and post-session. 
Surface electromyography [root mean square (RMS)] and mechanical measurements 
were recorded during repetitions. The heavy session resulted in the greatest 
repetition impulse in comparison to moderate and light sessions (P < 0.001), 
while the latter showed highest repetition power (P < 0.001). MIVC, RFD, and Pt 
were significantly reduced post-session (P < 0.01), with greatest reduction 
observed after the heavy, followed by the moderate and light sessions 
accordingly. Power significantly reduced during the heavy session only 
(P < 0.001), and greater increases in RMS occurred during heavy session 
(P < 0.001), followed by moderate, with no change during light session. In 
conclusion, this study has shown in elite athletes that the moderate load is 
optimal for providing a neuromuscular stimulus but with limited fatigue. This 
type of intervention could be potentially used in the development of both 
strength and power in elite athletic populations.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/sms.12289
PMID: 24995719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


697. East Mediterr Health J. 2014 Jan 9;19 Suppl 3:S45-54.

Elimination life tables of malignant neoplasm and their impact on life 
expectancy at birth in Kuwait.

Al-Ramadhan MA(1), Al-Hajji RM(1).

Author information:
(1)Kuwait Institute for Scientific Research, Techno-economic Division, Safat, 
State of Kuwait.

The aim of this study was to show the incidence rate of cancer in Kuwait, trends 
of malignant neoplasm mortality, and estimate the number of years saved as a 
consequence of eliminating deaths caused by malignant neoplasm (ICD-10). The 
study applies the techniques of conventional as well as elimination life tables 
to demonstrate the importance of controlling deaths caused by cancer to the 
increase in life expectancy at birth. The results confirm that elimination of 
cancer as a cause of death among Kuwaitis would add 1.80 years to Kuwaiti male 
and 1.94 years to Kuwaiti female life expectancy at birth. Elimination of cancer 
among those who would have died from malignant neoplasm is expected to add 1.40 
years to males' and 1.85 years to females' life expectancy at birth.

Publisher: جداول الحياة الإقصائية للأورام السرطانية وأثرها على مأمول الحياة عند 
الميلاد في الكويت محمد علي الرمضان1، ريم محمد الحجي1. تهدف هذه الدراسة إلى الكشف 
عن مستوى الإصابة بمرض السرطان في الكويت مع التعرف على تطور وفيات الأورام 
السرطانية، وتسعى بشكل أساسي إلى تحديد عدد سنوات الحياة التي يمكن إنقاذها عند 
إقصاء الوفيات الناجمة عن وفيات الأورام السرطانية (ICD-10) في الكويت. وتوظف 
الورقة منهجية جداول الحياة التقليدية وجداول الحياة الإقصائية للكشف عن مدى أهمية 
وفيات أمراض الأورام السرطانية في زيادة مأمول الحياة. وتؤكد النتائج على أن 
السيطرة الكاملة على وفيات السرطان ستؤدي إلى إضافة حوالي 1.80 سنة على مأمول 
الحياة للذكور الكويتيين، وتضيف حوالي 1.94 سنة إلى معدل توقع الحياة عند الميلاد 
للكويتيات، بينما إقصاء وفيات الأورام كسبب وفاة بين الذكور من السكان سيحقق إضافة 
