
© 2014 Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.12897
PMID: 24893978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. AIDS Res Ther. 2014 May 19;11:13. doi: 10.1186/1742-6405-11-13. eCollection 
2014.

Viral and cellular factors underlying neuropathogenesis in HIV associated 
neurocognitive disorders (HAND).

Rao VR(#)(1), Ruiz AP(#)(1), Prasad VR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, Albert Einstein College of 
Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Avenue, Bronx, NY 10461, USA.
(#)Contributed equally

As the HIV-1 epidemic enters its fourth decade, HIV-1 associated neurological 
disorders (HAND) continue to be a major concern in the infected population, 
despite the widespread use of anti-retroviral therapy. Advancing age and 
increased life expectancy of the HIV-1 infected population have been shown to 
increase the risk of cognitive dysfunction. Over the past 10 years, there has 
been a significant progress in our understanding of the mechanisms and the risk 
factors involved in the development of HAND. Key events that lead up to neuronal 
damage in HIV-1 infected individuals can be categorized based on the interaction 
of HIV-1 with the various cell types, including but not limited to macrophages, 
brain endothelial cells, microglia, astrocytes and the neurons. This review 
attempts to decipher these interactions, beginning with HIV-1 infection of 
macrophages and ultimately resulting in the release of neurotoxic viral and host 
products. These include: interaction with endothelial cells, resulting in the 
impairment of the blood brain barrier; interaction with the astrocytes, leading 
to metabolic and neurotransmitter imbalance; interactions with resident immune 
cells in the brain, leading to release of toxic cytokines and chemokines. We 
also review the mechanisms underlying neuronal damage caused by the factors 
mentioned above. We have attempted to bring together recent findings in these 
areas to help appreciate the viral and host factors that bring about 
neurological dysfunction. In addition, we review host factors and viral 
genotypic differences that affect phenotypic pathological outcomes, as well as 
recent advances in treatment options to specifically address the neurotoxic 
mechanisms in play.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-6405-11-13
PMCID: PMC4043700
PMID: 24894206


388. Recent Pat Drug Deliv Formul. 2014;8(3):163-92. doi: 
10.2174/1872211308666140602125505.

Oxidative damage impact on aging and age-related diseases: drug targeting of 
telomere attrition and dynamic telomerase activity flirting with 
imidazole-containing dipeptides.

Babizhayev MA, Vishnyakova KS, Yegorov YE(1).

Author information:
(1)Innovative Vision Products, Inc., Moscow Division, Ivanovskaya 20, Suite 74 
Moscow 127434 Russian Federation. markbabizhayev@yahoo.com.

It has been documented that telomere-associated cellular senescence may 
contribute to certain age-related disorders, including an increase in cancer 
incidence, wrinkling and diminished skin elasticity, atherosclerosis, 
osteoporosis, weight loss, age-related cataract, glaucoma and others. Shorter 
telomere length in leukocytes was associated crosssectionally with 
cardiovascular disorders and their risk factors, including pulse pressure and 
vascular aging, obesity, vascular dementia, diabetes, coronary artery disease, 
myocardial infarction (although not in all studies), cellular turnover and 
exposure to oxidative and inflammatory damage in chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease. It has been proposed that telomere length may not be a strong biomarker 
of survival in older individuals, but it may be an informative biomarker of 
healthy aging. The data reveal that telomere dynamics and changes in telomerase 
activity are consistent elements of cellular alterations associated with changes 
in proliferative state and in this article these processes are consequently 
considered as the new therapeutic drug targets for physiological control with 
advanced drug delivery and nutritional formulations. In particular, the presence 
of highly specific correlations and early causal relationships between telomere 
loss in the absence of telomerase activity and replicative senescence or crisis, 
and from the other side, telomerase reactivation and cell immortality, point to 
new and important treatment strategies or the therapeutic manipulation during 
treatment of age related disorders and cancer. Once better controls and 
therapeutic treatments for aging and age-related disorders are achieved, 
cellular rejuvenation by manipulating telomeres and enzyme telomerase activity 
may reduce some of the physiological declines that accompany aging. In this 
work, we raise and support a therapeutic concept of using non-hydrolyzed forms 
of naturally occurring imidazoledipeptide based compounds carnosine and 
carcinine, making it clinically possible that slowing down the rate of telomere 
shortening could slow down the human aging process in specific tissues where 
proliferative senescence is known to occur with the demonstrated evidence of 
telomere shortening appeared to be a hallmark of oxidative stress and disease. 
The preliminary longitudinal studies of elderly individuals suggest that longer 
telomeres are associated with better survival and an advanced oral nutritional 
support with non-hydrolyzed carnosine (or carcinine and patented compositions 
thereof) and patented N-acetylcarnosine lubricant eye drops are useful 
therapeutic tools of a critical telomere length maintenance that may 
fundamentally be applied in the treatment of age-related sight-threatening eye 
disorders, prolong life expectancy, increase survival and chronological age of 
an organism in health control, smoking behavior and disease.

DOI: 10.2174/1872211308666140602125505
PMID: 24894799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. BJU Int. 2014 Mar;113 Suppl 2:7-12. doi: 10.1111/bju.12623.

A Phase III trial to investigate the timing of radiotherapy for prostate cancer 
with high-risk features: background and rationale of the Radiotherapy -- 
Adjuvant Versus Early Salvage (RAVES) trial.

Pearse M(1), Fraser-Browne C, Davis ID, Duchesne GM, Fisher R, Frydenberg M, 
Haworth A, Jose C, Joseph DJ, Lim TS, Matthews J, Millar J, Sidhom M, Spry NA, 
Tang CI, Turner S, Williams SG, Wiltshire K, Woo HH, Kneebone A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, New 
Zealand.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2015 Feb;193(2):539.

OBJECTIVES: To test the hypothesis that observation with early salvage 
radiotherapy (SRT) is not inferior to 'standard' treatment with adjuvant RT 
(ART) with respect to biochemical failure in patients with pT3 disease and/or 
positive surgical margins (SMs) after radical prostatectomy (RP). To compare the 
following secondary endpoints between the two arms: patient-reported outcomes, 
adverse events, biochemical failure-free survival, overall survival, 
disease-specific survival, time to distant failure, time to local failure, cost 
utility analysis, quality adjusted life years and time to androgen deprivation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The Radiotherapy - Adjuvant Versus Early Salvage (RAVES) 
trial is a phase III multicentre randomised controlled trial led by the Trans 
Tasman Radiation Oncology Group (TROG), in collaboration with the Urological 
Society of Australia and New Zealand (USANZ), and the Australian and New Zealand 
Urogenital and Prostate Cancer Trials Group (ANZUP). In all, 470 patients are 
planned to be randomised 1:1 to either ART commenced at ≤4 months of RP 
(standard of care) or close observation with early SRT triggered by a PSA level 
of >0.20 ng/mL (experimental arm). Eligible patients have had a RP for 
adenocarcinoma of the prostate with at least one of the following risk factors: 
positive SMs ± extraprostatic extension ± seminal vesicle involvement. The 
postoperative PSA level must be ≤0.10 ng/mL. Rigorous investigator credentialing 
and a quality assurance programme are designed to promote consistent RT delivery 
among patients.
RESULTS: Trial is currently underway, with 258 patients randomised as of 31 
October 2013. International collaborations have developed, including a planned 
meta-analysis to be undertaken with the UK Medical Research Council/National 
Cancer Institute of Canada Clinical Trials Group RADICALS (Radiotherapy and 
Androgen Deprivation In Combination with Local Surgery) trial and an innovative 
psycho-oncology sub-study to investigate a patient decision aid resource.
CONCLUSION: On the current evidence available, it remains unclear if ART is 
equivalent or superior to observation with early SRT.

© 2014 The Authors. BJU International © 2014 BJU International.

DOI: 10.1111/bju.12623
PMID: 24894850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Herz. 2014 Jun;39(4):483-94. doi: 10.1007/s00059-014-4108-z.

[Risk factor management of coronary heart disease : what is evidence-based?].

[Article in German]

Winzer EB(1), Schuler GC.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin/Kardiologie, Universität Leipzig - Herzzentrum, 
Strümpellstr. 39, 04289, Leipzig, Deutschland, bece@med.uni-leipzig.de.

In patients with coronary heart disease the further course of the disease can be 
substantially influenced by means of a targeted treatment of risk factors. A 
reduction of hospital referrals, an improvement in quality of life and an 
extension in life expectation by secondary prophylactic measures have been well 
documented. In addition to an optimized medicinal therapy, an often drastic 
change in lifestyle with a focus on a consistent abstinence from nicotine, a 
healthy diet and regular physical exercise is necessary. Data from healthcare 
research show that these targets are only insufficiently achieved. The 
implementation of current guidelines should therefore be rigorously applied. 
There is a need for research particularly with respect to the prognostic 
significance of beta blocker therapy for patients with stable coronary heart 
disease and preserved left ventricular function, the prognostic significance of 
targeted weight loss for overweight or obese coronary heart disease patients, 
the effectiveness of psychosocial interventions in the various patient groups 
and their implementation into routine care. Research is also necessary with 
respect to optimization of structured rehabilitation programs and improvement in 
patient compliance.

DOI: 10.1007/s00059-014-4108-z
PMID: 24894947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. J Adv Nurs. 2015 Jan;71(1):42-53. doi: 10.1111/jan.12462. Epub 2014 Jun 3.

Nutritional status and its health-related factors among older adults in rural 
and urban areas.

Chen SH(1), Cheng HY, Chuang YH, Shao JH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing, Chang Gung University of Science and Technology, 
Taoyuan, Taiwan.

AIM: To compare health-related characteristics, nutrition-related factors and 
nutritional status of older adults living in rural and urban counties of Taiwan.
BACKGROUND: The older adult population of Taiwan is increasing. Furthermore, 
older people living in rural areas have shorter life expectancy and more chronic 
diseases than their urban counterparts. However, little is known about the 
health-related characteristics, nutrition-related factors and nutritional status 
of older adults living in rural and urban areas of Taiwan, limiting nurses' 
ability to identify and care for older adults at risk of poor nutritional 
health.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional, comparative.
METHODS: Older adults were randomly selected from names of residents of an 
adjacent rural and urban area of northern Taiwan and having completing the 2009 
health evaluation. From March-July 2010, older adult participants (N = 366) 
provided data on demographic and health-related information, nutritional 
self-efficacy, health locus of control and nutritional status. Data were 
analysed by descriptive statistics and compared using chi-square and t-test.
RESULTS: Older rural participants had significantly lower educational level, 
less adequate income, higher medication use, lower scores on self-rated health 
status and researcher-rated health status and lower self-rated healthy eating 
status than their urban counterparts. Moreover, rural participants had 
significantly lower nutritional self-efficacy, higher chance health locus of 
control and poorer nutritional status than their urban counterparts.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that nurses should assess older adults living 
in rural areas for nutritional health and nutrition knowledge. Based on this 
assessment, nurses should develop easy, practical and accessible nutritional 
programmes for this population.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jan.12462
PMID: 24894954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2014 Jul;7(4):581-8. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.113.000795. Epub 2014 Jun 3.

Relationship between care gaps and projected life expectancy after acute 
myocardial infarction.

Ko DT(1), Austin PC(2), Tu JV(2), Lee DS(2), Yun L(2), Alter DA(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Institute of Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
(D.T.K., P.C.A., J.V.T., D.S.L., L.Y., D.A.A.); Schulich Heart Centre, 
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (D.T.K., J.V.T.); 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (D.T.K., P.C.A., J.V.T., D.S.L., 
D.A.A.); Peter Munk Cardiac Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada (D.S.L.); The Cardiac and Secondary Prevention Program, Toronto 
Rehabilitation Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (D.A.A.); and Keenan Research 
Centre, Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute of St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada (D.A.A.). dennis.ko@ices.on.ca.
(2)From the Institute of Clinical Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, Ontario, Canada 
(D.T.K., P.C.A., J.V.T., D.S.L., L.Y., D.A.A.); Schulich Heart Centre, 
Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (D.T.K., J.V.T.); 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (D.T.K., P.C.A., J.V.T., D.S.L., 
D.A.A.); Peter Munk Cardiac Centre, University Health Network, Toronto, Ontario, 
Canada (D.S.L.); The Cardiac and Secondary Prevention Program, Toronto 
Rehabilitation Institute, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (D.A.A.); and Keenan Research 
Centre, Li Ka Shing Knowledge Institute of St. Michael's Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada (D.A.A.).

BACKGROUND: Higher-risk patients may not receive evidence-based therapy because 
of limited life expectancy, which is a composite measure that encompasses many 
patient factors, including age, frailty, and comorbidities. In this study, we 
evaluated the extent to which treatment care gaps can be explained by a 
difference in projected life expectancy.
METHODS AND RESULTS: An observational cohort study was conducted on acute 
myocardial infarction patients hospitalized in Ontario, Canada. Projected life 
expectancy was estimated using actual survival data with extrapolation using 
proportional hazard models adjusting for important covariates. The relationship 
between projected life expectancy with statins and reperfusion therapy was 
examined using generalized linear models. Among the 7001 acute myocardial 
infarction patients, 84.3% were prescribed statins and 72.9% were treated with 
reperfusion therapy. When projected life expectancy was <10 years, the 
likelihood of receiving either treatment declined progressively with reduction 
in life expectancy (P<0.001). At the 25th percentile of projected life 
expectancies, the likelihood of receiving a statin decreased by 1.4% (95% 
confidence interval, 1.0-1.8%), and acute reperfusion therapy decreased by 2.6% 
(95% confidence interval, 1.8-3.3%) for each year decline in projected life 
expectancy.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy of a patient strongly influences evidence-based 
treatment in acute myocardial infarction. It was seen not only among patients 
with limited life expectancies but also among those with many years to live. 
Treatment care gaps may reflect clinicians' synthesis about frailty and 
life-expectancy gains.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.113.000795
PMID: 24895449 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


393. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:870497. doi: 10.1155/2014/870497. Epub
2014  May 6.

A qualitative study exploring facilitators for improved health behaviors and 
health behavior programs: mental health service users' perspectives.

Graham C(1), Rollings C(2), de Leeuw S(3), Anderson L(2), Griffiths B(4), Long 
N(5).

Author information:
(1)Northern Medical Program, Department of Psychiatry, University of Northern 
British Columbia, 3333 University Way, Prince George, BC, Canada V2K 4C2 ; 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6T 1Z3.
(2)Northern Medical Program, Department of Psychiatry, University of Northern 
British Columbia, 3333 University Way, Prince George, BC, Canada V2K 4C2.
(3)Northern Medical Program, Department of Psychiatry, University of Northern 
British Columbia, 3333 University Way, Prince George, BC, Canada V2K 4C2 ; 
School of Population and Public Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, BC, Canada V6T 1Z4.
(4)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, BC, Canada V6T 1Z3.
(5)Activity Centre, BC Schizophrenia Society, Prince George Branch, Prince 
George, BC, Canada V2L 5G5.

OBJECTIVE: Mental health service users experience high rates of cardiometabolic 
disorders and have a 20-25% shorter life expectancy than the general population 
from such disorders. Clinician-led health behavior programs have shown moderate 
improvements, for mental health service users, in managing aspects of 
cardiometabolic disorders. This study sought to potentially enhance health 
initiatives by exploring (1) facilitators that help mental health service users 
engage in better health behaviors and (2) the types of health programs mental 
health service users want to develop.
METHODS: A qualitative study utilizing focus groups was conducted with 37 mental 
health service users attending a psychosocial rehabilitation center, in Northern 
British Columbia, Canada.
RESULTS: Four major facilitator themes were identified: (1) factors of 
empowerment, self-value, and personal growth; (2) the need for social support; 
(3) pragmatic aspects of motivation and planning; and (4) access. Participants 
believed that engaging with programs of physical activity, nutrition, 
creativity, and illness support would motivate them to live more healthily.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTICE: Being able to contribute to health 
behavior programs, feeling valued and able to experience personal growth are 
vital factors to engage mental health service users in health programs. 
Clinicians and health care policy makers need to account for these 
considerations to improve success of health improvement initiatives for this 
population.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/870497
PMCID: PMC4033592
PMID: 24895667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


394. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 4;9(6):e98655. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098655.
eCollection  2014.

Comprehensive secondary structure elucidation of four genera of the family 
Pospiviroidae.

Giguère T(1), Adkar-Purushothama CR(1), Perreault JP(1).

Author information:
(1)Département de biochimie, Faculté de médecine et des sciences de la santé, 
Pavillon de recherche appliquée sur le cancer, Université de Sherbrooke, 
Sherbrooke, Québec, Canada.

Viroids are small, circular, single stranded RNA molecules that infect plants. 
Since they are non-coding, their structures play a critical role in their life 
cycles. To date, little effort has been spend on elucidating viroid structures 
in solution due to both the experimental difficulties and the time-consuming 
nature of the methodologies implicated. Recently, the technique of 
high-throughput selective 2'-hydroxyl acylation analyzed by primer extension 
(SHAPE) was adapted for the probing of the members of family Avsunviroidae, all 
of whom replicate in the chloroplast and demonstrate ribozyme activity. In the 
present work, twelve viroid species belonging to four different genera of the 
family Pospiviroidae, whose members are characterized by the presence of a 
central conserved region (CCR) and who replicate in nucleus of the host, were 
probed. Given that the structures of five distinct viroid species from the 
family Pospiviroidae have been previously reported, an overview of the different 
structural characteristics for all genera and the beginning of a manual 
classification of the different viroids based on their structural features are 
presented here.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098655
PMCID: PMC4045682
PMID: 24897295 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


395. Ethn Health. 2015;20(4):341-53. doi: 10.1080/13557858.2014.921892. Epub 2014
Jun  4.

Inequalities in healthy life expectancy between ethnic groups in England and 
Wales in 2001.

Wohland P(1), Rees P, Nazroo J, Jagger C.

Author information:
(1)a Institute for Ageing and Health , Newcastle University , Newcastle upon 
Tyne , UK.

OBJECTIVES: We aim to develop robust estimates of disability-free life 
expectancy (DFLE) and healthy life expectancy (HLE) for ethnic groups in England 
and Wales in 2001 and to examine observed variations across ethnic groups.
DESIGN: DFLE and HLE by age and gender for five-year age groups were computed 
for 16 ethnic groups by combining the 2001 Census data on ethnicity, 
self-reported limiting long-term illness and self-rated health using mortality 
by ethnic group estimated by two methods: the Standardised Illness Ratio (SIR) 
method and the Geographically Weighted Method (GWM).
RESULTS: The SIR and GWM methods differed somewhat in their estimates of life 
expectancy (LE) at birth but produced very similar estimates of DFLE and HLE by 
ethnic group. For the more conservative method (GWM), the range in DFLE at birth 
was 10.5 years for men and 11.9 years for women, double that in LE. DFLE at 
birth was highest for Chinese men (64.7 years, 95% CI 64.0-65.3) and women (67.0 
years, 95% CI 66.4-67.6). Over half of the ethnic minority groups (men: 10; 
women: 9) had significantly lower DFLE at birth than White British men (61.7 
years, 95% CI 61.7-61.7) or women (64.1 years, 95% CI 64.1-64.2), mostly the 
Black, Asian and mixed ethnic groups. The lowest DFLE observed was for 
Bangladeshi men (54.3 years, 95% CI 53.7-54.8) and Pakistani women (55.1 years, 
95% CI 54.8-55.4). Notable were Indian women whose LE was similar to White 
British women but who had 4.3 years less disability-free (95% CI 4.0-4.6).
CONCLUSIONS: Inequalities in DFLE between ethnic groups are large and exceed 
those in LE. Moreover, certain ethnic groups have a larger burden of disability 
that does not seem to be associated with shorter LE. With the increasing 
population of the non-White British community, it is essential to be able to 
identify the ethnic groups at higher risk of disability, in order to target 
appropriate interventions.

DOI: 10.1080/13557858.2014.921892
PMCID: PMC4648377
PMID: 24897306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Cien Saude Colet. 2014 Jun;19(6):1803-11. doi: 
10.1590/1413-81232014196.15812013.

[Estimates of life expectancy for individuals with chronic spinal diseases in 
Brazil].

[Article in Portuguese]

Camargos MC.

Chronic spinal diseases, including deformities and muscular pain, are 
significant causes of morbidity among adults and the elderly. The scope of this 
study is to assess the life expectancy of Brazilians with chronic spinal 
diseases by sex and age between 2003 and 2008. The Sullivan method was used, 
combining the mortality/actuarial table with the prevalence of chronic spinal 
diseases. The mortality/actuarial tables published by the Brazilian Institute of 
Geography and Statistics (IBGE) were used and the prevalence of chronic spinal 
diseases was taken from the Brazilian Household Sample Survey (PNAD) for the 
years under scrutiny. The main results indicate that a man born in Brazil in 
2008 could expect to live for 69.1 years, of which 15% with chronic spinal 
diseases. However, women born in the same year had a life expectancy of 76.7 
years and could expect to live a fifth of their lives with chronic spinal 
diseases. Over the period under analysis, concurrently with gains in life 
expectancy, there was an increase in healthy life expectancy, or length of life 
lived without chronic spinal diseases, both in absolute and relative terms.

DOI: 10.1590/1413-81232014196.15812013
PMID: 24897480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Percept Mot Skills. 2014 Apr;118(2):548-62. doi: 10.2466/27.10.PMS.118k22w7.

Brazilian adolescents' body weight misperception and the Human Development Index 
of the cities where they live.

Silva DA, Gonçalves EC.

This study investigated the relationship between adolescents' body weight 
misperception and the Human Development Index (HDI) of the cities in which they 
live in Brazil. Data from a large national survey that included 60,973 boys and 
girls between 13 and 15 yr. (M = 14.2, SD = 1.1; 47.5% boys, 52.5% girls) were 
analyzed. Regression analyses were adjusted for potential confounding factors 
such as population density, income inequality, nutritional status (BMI), and 
mothers' education. In both sexes, the relationship between perceived 
underweight showed an inverse relationship with HDI. The highest prevalences of 
participants who perceived themselves as overweight for girls were found in 
cities with high HDI.

DOI: 10.2466/27.10.PMS.118k22w7
PMID: 24897886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. BMC Public Health. 2014 Jun 5;14:560. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-560.

Decomposition of educational differences in life expectancy by age and causes of 
death among South Korean adults.

Jung-Choi K, Khang YH, Cho HJ, Yun SC(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Asan Medical Center, 
University of Ulsan College of Medicine, 388-1 Pungnap2-dong, Songpa-gu, Seoul 
138-736, Korea. ysch97@amc.seoul.kr.

BACKGROUND: Decomposition of socioeconomic inequalities in life expectancy by 
ages and causes allow us to better understand the nature of socioeconomic 
mortality inequalities and to suggest priority areas for policy and 
intervention. This study aimed to quantify age- and cause-specific contributions 
to socioeconomic differences in life expectancy at age 25 by educational level 
among South Korean adult men and women.
METHODS: We used National Death Registration records in 2005 (129,940 men and 
106,188 women) and national census data in 2005 (15, 215, 523 men and 16,077,137 
women aged 25 and over). Educational attainment as the indicator of 
socioeconomic position was categorized into elementary school graduation or 
less, middle or high school graduation, and college graduation or higher. 
Differences in life expectancy at age 25 by educational level were estimated by 
age- and cause-specific mortality differences using Arriaga's decomposition 
method.
RESULTS: Differences in life expectancy at age 25 between college or higher 
education and elementary or less education were 16.23 years in men and 7.69 
years in women. Young adult groups aged 35-49 in men and aged 25-39 in women 
contributed substantially to the differences between college or higher education 
and elementary or less education in life expectancy. Suicide and liver disease 
were the most important causes of death contributing to the differences in life 
expectancy in young adult groups. For older age groups, cerebrovascular disease 
and lung cancer were important to explain educational differential in life 
expectancy at 25-29 between college or higher education and middle or higher 
education.
CONCLUSIONS: The contribution of the causes of death to socioeconomic inequality 
in life expectancy at age 25 in South Korea varied by age groups and differed by 
educational comparisons. The age specific contributions for different causes of 
death to life expectancy inequalities by educational attainment should be taken 
into account in establishing effective policy strategies to reduce socioeconomic 
inequalities in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-560
PMCID: PMC4061106
PMID: 24897953 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. Acta Biomed. 2014 May 9;85(1):8-17.

Contribution to the validation of Italian version of Fear-Avoidance Beliefs 
Questionnaire.

Pruneti C(1), Sgromo D, Bicchieri L, Fontana F, Franceschini M, Ferraro F, 
Cosentino C.

Author information:
(1)University of Parma. carlo.pruneti@unipr.it.

BACKGROUND AIM: Propose further evidence for reliability and validity of Italian 
translation and adaptation of Fear Avoidance Beliefs Questionnaire, (FABQ) 
originally built-up by Waddel et al. (1993) METHODS: 250 participants, inpatient 
and outpatient, suffering from acute or chronic back-pain have been 
consecutively recruited from various Italian physiotherapy and functional 
rehabilitation centres. All participants were administered FABQ and QUALEFFO, to 
evaluate if avoiding behaviors can provoke disability independently from 
experimented pain.
RESULTS: Varimax rotation, point out a 4 factor structure: "Prognosis", "Work as 
cause", "Damage Expectancy", "Physical activity as cause". Statistical analysis 
underlined a good internal consistency. A good criterion validity resulted from 
correlation between FABQ scoring and QUALEFFO. The sample was splitted in 
"avoiders" (A) and "confronters" (C). Group A had no significant correlation 
between FABQ-W score and pain episode lasting, remission interval lasting, 
back-pain sick leave; no significant correlation emerged between beliefs and 
perceived pain. In group C a direct relation emerged between duration of sick 
leave, FABQ-W scores and FABQTOT scores, and an association between FABQ scores 
and reported pain.
CONCLUSION: Pain-related fear and fear-avoidance beliefs are specific index 
which have to be considered in the first assessment phases, to prevent their 
effect on global functioning and on patients' quality of life. FABQ pointed out 
good reliability and validity propriety in Italian version. FABQ seems to be a 
brilliant instrument for multidisciplinary clinical practice in pain problem 
approach.

PMID: 24897965 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. Aging Dis. 2014 Jun 1;5(3):177-82. doi: 10.14336/AD.2014.0500177.
eCollection  2014 Jun.

Hip fractures in a geriatric population - rehabilitation based on patients 
needs.

Radosavljevic N(1), Nikolic D(2), Lazovic M(1), Jeremic A(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Rehabilitation, Belgrade, Serbia.
(2)Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Department, University Children's 
Hospital, Belgrade, Serbia.
(3)McMaster University, Hamilton, ON L8S 4L8, Canada.

With an increased life expectancy in humans and thus an increase in the number 
of the elderly population, the frequency of hip fractures will rise as well. 
Aside from a higher incidence, hip fractures in a geriatric population is a 
significant problem due to the possible onset of severe and in some cases 
dramatic complications and consequences. The primary purpose of treatment and 
rehabilitation in the elderly after a hip fracture is to improve an individual's 
quality of life. It is important to underline that principles and methods of 
functional restoration after hip fracture should consider careful planning of a 
rehabilitation program individually for every patient and its implementation 
with respect to decisions made by the rehabilitation team.

DOI: 10.14336/AD.2014.0500177
PMCID: PMC4037309
PMID: 24900940


401. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 5;9(6):e98950. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098950.
eCollection  2014.

Laparoscopic versus open radical cystectomy for elderly patients over 
75-year-old: a single center comparative analysis.

Zeng S(1), Zhang Z(1), Yu X(2), Song R(1), Wei R(1), Zhao J(1), Wang L(1), Hou 
J(1), Sun Y(1), Xu C(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Urology, Changhai Hospital, Second Military Medical 
University, Shanghai, P. R. China.
(2)From the Department of Geriatrics, Changhai Hospital, Second Military Medical 
University, Shanghai, P. R. China.

PURPOSE: To explore the morbidity, mortality and oncological results of 
laparoscopic radical cystectomy (LRC) in the elderly patients over 75-year-old 
in contrast with open radical cystectomy (ORC).
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We analyzed 46 radical cystectomies from January 2009 to 
December 2013 in patients over 75-year-old in our institute, 21 patients in the 
LRC group and 25 in the ORC group. Demographic parameters, operative variables 
and perioperative outcome were retrospectively collected and analyzed between 
the two groups. Perioperative morbidity and mortality were categorized as early 
(within 90 days after surgery) or late (more than 90 days) according to the time 
of occurrence.
RESULTS: Patients in both groups had comparable preoperative characteristics. A 
significant longer operative time (418 vs. 337 min, p = 0.018) and less 
estimated blood loss (400 vs. 500 ml p = 0.038) were observed in LRC group 
compared with ORC group. Infection and ileus were the most common early 
complications after surgery. Patients underwent ORC suffered from significantly 
more postoperative ileus (28.0% vs. 4.8%, P = 0.038) and infection (40% vs. 
9.5%, P = 0.019) than LRC group within 90 days after surgery. The mortality rate 
was 4.7% (1/21) and 4% (1/25) for LRC group and ORC group respectively. At a 
median follow-up of 21 months (range 2-61 months), the Kaplan-Meier survival 
curves and log-rank analysis demonstrate that there were no significant 
differences between the LRC and ORC groups in the 3-year overall, 
cancer-specific, or recurrence-free survival rates.
CONCLUSIONS: It is suggested that LRC should be recommended as the primary 
intervention to treat muscle invasive or high risk non-muscle invasive bladder 
cancer in elderly patients with a relative long life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098950
PMCID: PMC4047040
PMID: 24901359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


402. Optom Vis Sci. 2014 Jul;91(7):723-9. doi: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000000299.

Utility values among myopic patients in mainland China.

Li S(1), Wang G, Xu Y, Gray A, Chen G.

Author information:
(1)*PhD †MSc ‡BN Centre for Health Management and Policy, Shandong University, 
Jinan, China (SL); Key Lab for Health Economics and Policy Research, Ministry of 
Health, Jinan, China (SL); Affiliated Eye Hospital of Shandong University of 
Traditional Chinese Medicine, Jinan, China (GW, YX); Health Economics Research 
Centre, Nuffield Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, 
United Kingdom (AG); and Flinders Health Economics Group, School of Medicine, 
Flinders University, Adelaide, Australia (GC).

PURPOSE: To elicit utility values of adult myopic patients in mainland China.
METHODS: A valid sample of 442 myopia patients (spherical equivalent at least 
-0.5 diopters) aged 17 to 44 years who were scheduled to undergo refractive 
surgery were recruited. Information on time trade-off ([TTO] years of life 
willing to sacrifice for treatment of myopia) and standard gamble (SG) for 
blindness (risk of blindness from therapy, willing to sacrifice for treatment of 
myopia) utility values and sociodemographic and clinical data were obtained.
RESULTS: The mean utility values based on TTO and SG were 0.96 ± 0.05 (95% 
confidence interval [CI], 0.95 to 0.96; median, 0.98) and 0.93 ± 0.09 (95% CI, 
0.92 to 0.94; median, 0.97), respectively. Myopic patients using contact lens 
had significantly higher TTO utility values than those wearing glasses (p < 
0.001). There was no significant difference in the TTO and SG utility values by 
age, sex, occupation, educational levels, residence, reasons for refractive 
surgery, and severity and duration of myopia (p > 0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: The TTO and SG produce similar mean utility values, but there is 
poor agreement between results for individuals from the two methods. Utility 
values associated with myopic patients obtained in this study or reported in the 
literature seem to be higher than those obtained for other ophthalmic 
conditions.

DOI: 10.1097/OPX.0000000000000299
PMID: 24901487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. J Dev Orig Health Dis. 2014 Jun;5(3):171-7. doi: 10.1017/S2040174414000105.

Adolescent experience predicts longevity: evidence from historical epidemiology.

Falconi A(1), Gemmill A(2), Dahl RE(1), Catalano R(1).

Author information:
(1)1 School of Public Health, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(2)2 Department of Demography, University of California, Berkeley, CA, USA.

Human development reportedly includes critical and sensitive periods during 
which environmental stressors can affect traits that persist throughout life. 
Controversy remains over which of these periods provides an opportunity for such 
stressors to affect health and longevity. The elaboration of reproductive 
biology and its behavioral sequelae during adolescence suggests such a sensitive 
period, particularly among males. We test the hypothesis that life expectancy at 
age 20 among males exposed to life-threatening stressors during early 
adolescence will fall below that among other males. We apply time-series methods 
to cohort mortality data in France between 1816 and 1919, England and Wales 
between 1841 and 1919, and Sweden between 1861 and 1919. Our results indicate an 
inverse association between cohort death rates at ages 10-14 and cohort life 
expectancy at age 20. Our findings imply that better-informed and more strategic 
management of the stressors encountered by early adolescents may improve 
population health.

DOI: 10.1017/S2040174414000105
PMID: 24901655 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Acta Med Iran. 2014;52(3):210-4.

Unfavorable survival rates in Iranian patients with gastric cancers: a single 
center experience from Tehran.

Khedmat H(1), Amini M(1), Ghamar-Chehreh ME(1), Hadi R(1), Taheri S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Baqiyatallah Research Center for 
Gastroenterology & Liver Disease, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran. taherimd@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, Dr. Taheri Medical Research Group, Tehran, 
Iran. taherimd@gmail.com.

We examined the effect of potential interfering factors that play major roles in 
the outcome of our patients with stomach cancer. 100 consecutive patients 
diagnosed with gastric cancers were prospectively observed, treated and followed 
from November 2009 to January. Absence of Helicobacter pylori infection 
(P=0.027), absence of vascularisation (P<0.001), and undetermined 
histopathological type of adenocarcinoma (P=0.003) were factors significantly 
associated with higher grade of gastric lesions. Life tables were used to define 
survival of gastric cancers. Survival rates of these patients at 1st week, 1st 
month, 2nd month, 3rd month, and 6th month were 97%, 96%, 91%, 90%, and 82%, 
respectively. The only determinant of 6 months of survival was age over 68 
(P=0.039). Our study confirms our previous knowledge that gastric cancers have 
unfavorable outcome in Iran.

PMID: 24901724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. AANA J. 2014 Apr;82(2):145-52.

Anesthesia case management for endovascular aortic aneurysm repair.

Elisha S, Nagelhout J, Heiner J, Gabot M.

The incidence of angiopathology involving the aorta and microvasculature is 
expected to become more prevalent because of increased life expectancy and 
incidence of obesity. With the advent of endovascular aortic repair (EVAR), 
patients who were not considered surgical candidates for abdominal aortic 
aneurysmectomy because of their tenuous physical status can undergo corrective 
treatment and return to their activities of daily living. Because of the limited 
invasiveness of the procedure, it is unnecessary to cross-clamp the aorta, which 
minimizes hemodynamic variability and release of inflammatory mediators. As a 
result, the rate of myocardial ischemia, acute kidney injury, mesenteric 
ischemia, and blood loss is decreased. However, there are serious complications 
that can occur with EVAR, which include cerebral and myocardial ischemia, rapid 
massive hemorrhage, damage to access vessels, and endoleak. Presently, the most 
common anesthetic technique provided to patients undergoing EVAR is local 
anesthesia and monitored anesthetic care. A thorough understanding of the 
surgical procedure, perioperative process, and anesthetic considerations is 
vital to provide comprehensive care.

PMID: 24902458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Eur J Health Econ. 2015 Jun;16(5):543-59. doi: 10.1007/s10198-014-0609-1.
Epub  2014 Jun 6.

Health inequalities in the European Union: an empirical analysis of the dynamics 
of regional differences.

Maynou L(1), Saez M, Bacaria J, Lopez-Casasnovas G.

Author information:
(1)Research Group on Statistics, Econometrics and Health (GRECS), University of 
Girona, Campus de Montilivi, 17071, Girona, Spain.

In a panel setting, we analyse the speed of (beta) convergence of 
(cause-specific) mortality and life expectancy at birth in EU countries between 
1995 and 2009. Our contribution is threefold. First, in contrast to earlier 
literature, we allow the convergence rate to vary, and thereby uncover 
significant differences in the speed of convergence across time and regions. 
Second, we control for spatial correlations across regions. Third, we estimate 
convergence among regions, rather than countries, and thereby highlight 
noteworthy variations within a country. Although we find (beta) convergence on 
average, we also identify significant differences in the catching-up process 
across both time and regions. Moreover, we use the coefficient of variation to 
measure the dynamics of dispersion levels of mortality and life expectancy 
(sigma convergence) and, surprisingly, find no reduction, on average, in 
dispersion levels. Consequently, if the reduction of dispersion is the ultimate 
measure of convergence, then, to the best of our knowledge, our study is the 
first that shows a lack of convergence in health across EU regions.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-014-0609-1
PMID: 24903022 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


407. Global Health. 2014 Jun 5;10:44. doi: 10.1186/1744-8603-10-44.

The role of law and governance reform in the global response to non-communicable 
diseases.

Magnusson RS(1), Patterson D.

Author information:
(1)Sydney Law School, F10, The University of Sydney, Sydney NSW 2006 Australia. 
roger.magnusson@sydney.edu.au.

Addressing non-communicable diseases ("NCDs") and their risk-factors is one of 
the most powerful ways of improving longevity and healthy life expectancy for 
the foreseeable future - especially in low- and middle-income countries. This 
paper reviews the role of law and governance reform in that process. We 
highlight the need for a comprehensive approach that is grounded in the right to 
health and addresses three aspects: preventing NCDs and their risk factors, 
improving access to NCD treatments, and addressing the social impacts of 
illness. We highlight some of the major impediments to the passage and 
implementation of laws for the prevention and control of NCDs, and identify 
important practical steps that governments can take as they consider legal and 
governance reforms at country level.We review the emerging global architecture 
for NCDs, and emphasise the need for governance structures to harness the energy 
of civil society organisations and to create a global movement that influences 
the policy agenda at the country level. We also argue that the global monitoring 
framework would be more effective if it included key legal and policy 
indicators. The paper identifies priorities for technical legal assistance in 
implementing the WHO Global Action Plan for the Prevention and Control of NCDs 
2013-2020. These include high-quality legal resources to assist countries to 
evaluate reform options, investment in legal capacity building, and global 
leadership to respond to the likely increase in requests by countries for 
technical legal assistance. We urge development agencies and other funders to 
recognise the need for development assistance in these areas. Throughout the 
paper, we point to global experience in dealing with HIV and draw out some 
relevant lessons for NCDs.

DOI: 10.1186/1744-8603-10-44
PMCID: PMC4077679
PMID: 24903332 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


408. Trials. 2014 Jun 6;15:209. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-15-209.

The Indiana University Cognitive Health Outcomes Investigation of the 
Comparative Effectiveness of dementia screening (CHOICE) study: study protocol 
for a randomized controlled trial.

Fowler NR(1), Harrawood A, Frame A, Perkins AJ, Gao S, Callahan CM, Sachs GA, 
French DD, Boustani MA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh, 200 Meyran Avenue Suite 
300, 15215 Pittsburgh, PA, USA. fowlernr@upmc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Dementia affects over 4 million people in the US and is frequently 
unrecognized and underdiagnosed in primary care. Routine dementia screening in 
primary care is not recommended by the US Preventive Services Task Force due to 
lack of empirical data on the benefits and harms of screening. This trial seeks 
to fill this gap and contribute information about the benefits, harms, and costs 
of routine screening for dementia in primary care.
METHODS/DESIGN: Single-blinded, parallel, randomized controlled clinical trial 
with 1:1 allocation. A total of 4,000 individuals aged ≥65 years without a 
diagnosis of dementia, cognitive impairment, or serious mental illness receiving 
care at primary care practices within two cities in Indiana. Subjects will be 
randomized to either i) screening for dementia using the Memory Impairment 
Screen Telephone version or ii) no screening for dementia. Subjects who screen 
positive for dementia will be referred to the local Aging Brain Care program 
that delivers an evidence-based collaborative care model for dementia and 
depression. Research assistants will administer the 15-item Health Utility 
Index, Patient Health Questionnaire, Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale, and 
Medical Outcomes Study at baseline, 1, 6, and 12 months. Information about 
advanced care planning will be collected at baseline and 12 months. All 
enrollees' medical records will be reviewed to collect data on health care 
utilization and costs.
DISCUSSION: We have two primary hypotheses; first, in comparison to non-screened 
subjects, those who are screened and referred to a dementia collaborative care 
program will have a higher health-related quality of life as measured by the 
Health Utility Index at 12 months post-screening. Second, in comparison to 
non-screened subjects, those who are screened and referred to a dementia 
collaborative care program will not have higher depression or anxiety at one 
month post-screening as measured by the Patient Health Questionnaire and 
Generalized Anxiety Disorder Scale scales. Our secondary hypothesis is that 
screened subjects will have an Incremental Cost-Effectiveness Ratio below the 
maximum acceptable threshold of $60,000 per quality adjusted life year saved at 
12 months.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Ongoing; registered on September 19, 2012. 
ClinicalTrials.gov Identifier: 2012 NCT01699503.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-15-209
PMCID: PMC4066282
PMID: 24903469 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


409. Epilepsia. 2014 Oct;55(10):1479-85. doi: 10.1111/epi.12666. Epub 2014 Jun 5.

Sudden unexpected death in epilepsy: assessing the public health burden.

Thurman DJ(1), Hesdorffer DC, French JA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Emory University School of Medicine, Atlanta, 
Georgia, U.S.A.

OBJECTIVE: There is not yet a clear consensus on the incidence of sudden 
unexpected death in epilepsy (SUDEP) or the extent of its burden on public 
health. In this systematic review, we seek to summarize the incidence of SUDEP 
and its age distribution, as well as the years of potential life lost and 
cumulative risks of SUDEP for persons with epilepsy.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic search for epidemiologic studies of sudden 
death in epilepsy and rated their quality of evidence. We pooled data from 
comparable higher quality population-based studies of SUDEP incidence across all 
age groups, calculating the overall incidence of SUDEP per 100,000 population, 
and per 1,000 people with epilepsy. Using standard formulas, we also calculated 
the years of potential life lost and cumulative risks associated with SUDEP.
RESULTS: SUDEP has an estimated overall crude annual incidence rate of 0.81 
cases per 100,000 population, or 1.16 cases per 1,000 patients with epilepsy. 
Comparing years of potential life lost from SUDEP with selected other neurologic 
diseases, SUDEP ranks second only to stroke.
SIGNIFICANCE: Despite limitations to the data on which our analysis is based, we 
conclude that the public health burden of SUDEP, which has previously been 
underappreciated, is substantial and deserves much more attention from 
clinicians, researchers, and the public health community.

Wiley Periodicals, Inc. © 2014 International League Against Epilepsy.

DOI: 10.1111/epi.12666
PMID: 24903551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


410. J Am Heart Assoc. 2014 Jun 5;3(3):e000912. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.114.000912.

Cost-effectiveness of clopidogrel-aspirin versus aspirin alone for acute 
transient ischemic attack and minor stroke.

Pan Y(1), Wang A(1), Liu G(1), Zhao X(1), Meng X(1), Zhao K(2), Liu L(1), Wang 
C(1), Johnston SC(3), Wang Y(1), Wang Y(1); CHANCE Investigators.

Collaborators: Wang Y, Johnston SC, Wang Y, Zhao X, Wang Z, Xia H, Zhang G, Ren 
X, Ji C, Zhang G, Li J, Lu B, Wang L, Feng S, Wang D, Tang W, Li J, Zhang H, Li 
G, Wang B, Chen Y, Lian Y, Liu B, Teng J, Sui R, Li L, Yuan Z, Zang D, Lu Z, Sun 
L, Wang D, Hou L, Yuan D, Cao Y, Li H, Tan X, Wang H, Du H, Liu M, Wang S, Liu 
Q, Zhang Z, Cui Q, Wang R, Zhao J, Zhang J, Zhao J, Bi Q, Qi X, Liu J, Li C, Li 
L, Pan X, Zhang J, Jiao D, Han Z, Qian D, Xiao J, Xing Y, Du H, Huang G, Cui Y, 
Li Y, Feng L, Gao L, Xiao B, Cao Y, Wu Y, Liu J, Zhang Z, Dong Z, Wang L, He L, 
Wang X, Guo X, Wang M, Wang X, Jiang J, Zhao R, Zhou S, Hu H, He M, Yu F, Ouyang 
Q, Zhang J, Xu A, Qi X, Wang L, Shi F, Guo F, Wang J, Zhao F, Dou R, Wei D, Meng 
Q, Xia Y, Wang S, Xue Z, Xu Y, Ma L, Wang C, Wu J, Du Y, Wang Y, Xiao L, Song F, 
Hu W, Chen Z, Liu Q, Zhang J, Chen M, Yuan X, Liu Z, Li G, Li X, Tian T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, Beijing Tiantan Hospital, Capital Medical 
University, Beijing, China (Y.P., A.W., G.L., X.Z., X.M., L.L., C.W., Y.W., 
Y.W.).
(2)China National Health Development Research Center, Beijing, China (K.Z.).
(3)Departments of Neurology and Epidemiology, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA (C.J.).

BACKGROUND: Treatment with the combination of clopidogrel and aspirin taken soon 
after a transient ischemic attack (TIA) or minor stroke was shown to reduce the 
90-day risk of stroke in a large trial in China, but the cost-effectiveness is 
unknown. This study sought to estimate the cost-effectiveness of the 
clopidogrel-aspirin regimen for acute TIA or minor stroke.
METHODS AND RESULTS: A Markov model was created to determine the 
cost-effectiveness of treatment of acute TIA or minor stroke patients with 
clopidogrel-aspirin compared with aspirin alone. Inputs for the model were 
obtained from clinical trial data, claims databases, and the published 
literature. The main outcome measure was cost per quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) gained. One-way and multivariable probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
were performed to test the robustness of the findings. Compared with aspirin 
alone, clopidogrel-aspirin resulted in a lifetime gain of 0.037 QALYs at an 
additional cost of CNY 1250 (US$ 192), yielding an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of CNY 33 800 (US$ 5200) per QALY gained. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis showed that clopidogrel-aspirin therapy was more 
cost-effective in 95.7% of the simulations at a willingness-to-pay threshold 
recommended by the World Health Organization of CNY 105 000 (US$ 16 200) per 
QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Early 90-day clopidogrel-aspirin regimen for acute TIA or minor 
stroke is highly cost-effective in China. Although clopidogrel is generic, 
Plavix is brand in China. If Plavix were generic, treatment with 
clopidogrel-aspirin would have been cost saving.

© 2014 The Authors. Published on behalf of the American Heart Association, Inc., 
by Wiley Blackwell.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.114.000912
PMCID: PMC4309076
PMID: 24904018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


411. Front Neuroanat. 2014 May 20;8:39. doi: 10.3389/fnana.2014.00039.
eCollection  2014.

Adult neurogenesis and its anatomical context in the hippocampus of three 
mole-rat species.

Amrein I(1), Becker AS(1), Engler S(1), Huang SH(1), Müller J(1), Slomianka 
L(1), Oosthuizen MK(2).

