DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-267
PMCID: PMC4067520
PMID: 24942820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Eur Arch Otorhinolaryngol. 2015 Aug;272(8):2007-16. doi: 
10.1007/s00405-014-3106-3. Epub 2014 Jun 19.

Real-world cost-effectiveness of cetuximab in locally advanced squamous cell 
carcinoma of the head and neck.

van der Linden N(1), van Gils CW, Pescott CP, Buter J, Vergeer MR, Groot CA.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus University 
Rotterdam, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The Netherlands, 
vanderlinden@bmg.eur.nl.

Clinical trial EMR 62202-006 demonstrates prolonged median locoregional control 
(24.4 vs. 14.9 months), progression-free survival (17.1 vs. 12.4 months) and 
overall survival (49.0 vs. 29.3 months) for patients who receive cetuximab added 
to the comparator radiotherapy for locally advanced squamous cell carcinoma of 
the head and neck (LA SCCHN). In the Netherlands, hospitals receive 
reimbursement for cetuximab conditional on cost-effectiveness in daily practice. 
To estimate the real-world incremental cost per quality adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained for radiotherapy + cetuximab over radiotherapy alone in first line 
treatment of LA SCCHN, a Markov model is constructed with health states "alive 
without progression", "alive following progression" and "death". Transition 
probabilities per month are estimated from clinical trial data and 
retrospectively collected real-world data from two Dutch head and neck cancer 
treatment centres (2007-2010, n = 141). 5-year, 10-year and lifetime horizons 
are used, without and with discounting (4 % costs, 1.5 % effects) to calculate 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios. Two scenarios explore different 
assumptions on prognosis of real-world versus trial patients. Adding cetuximab 
to radiotherapy results in increased costs and health gains in both scenarios 
and across each of the time horizons. Incremental costs per QALY gained range 
between <euro>14,624 and <euro>38,543 in the base-case. For a willingness to pay 
of <euro>80,000 per QALY, the acceptability curves for the different scenarios 
show probabilities between 0.76 and 0.87 of radiotherapy + cetuximab being 
cost-effective compared to radiotherapy alone. Current results show the combined 
treatment of radiotherapy + cetuximab to be a cost-effective treatment option 
for patients with LA SCCHN.

DOI: 10.1007/s00405-014-3106-3
PMID: 24943191 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Front Horm Res. 2014;43:57-69. doi: 10.1159/000360559. Epub 2014 Jun 10.

Hormonal alterations in heart failure: anabolic impairment in chronic heart 
failure - diagnostic, prognostic and therapeutic issues.

Arcopinto M(1), Cittadini A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Translational Medical Sciences, Federico II University, Naples, 
Italy.

Chronic heart failure represents a leading cause of mortality and health care 
expenditure in developed countries. In the last 20 years, medical therapy of 
heart failure has dramatically changed thanks to the introduction of agents able 
to significantly reduce the neurohormonal hyperactivation that underpins the 
syndrome, and to the growing opportunities of electrical therapies. Although 
major advances in terms of improved survival and quality of life have been 
achieved, the reduction in the burden of heart failure is still the primary goal 
of cardiovascular societies. In the last decades, other research lines have also 
grown to complement the neurohormonal paradigm. It is increasingly evident that 
several hormonal systems are down-regulated or impaired in patients with heart 
failure, including growth and thyroid hormones, androgens and insulin. These 
abnormalities could be considered interrelated and linked, in turn, to the 
neurohormonal and cytokine hyperactivation. Since most of these alterations 
provide prognostic information, these new lines of evidence support the 
extension of the classical neurohormonal scheme to a more comprehensive 
pathophysiological model that includes multiple hormonal and metabolic 
deficiencies. This chapter examines the evidence in support of this concept. 
Preliminary experience concerning targeted hormonal supplementation or metabolic 
modulation is also briefly reviewed in this article.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000360559
PMID: 24943298 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Health Econ. 2014 Sep;23(9):1098-114. doi: 10.1002/hec.3066. Epub 2014 Jun
18.

Estimating health state utility values from discrete choice experiments--a QALY 
space model approach.

Gu Y(1), Norman R, Viney R.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia.

Using discrete choice experiments (DCEs) to estimate health state utility values 
has become an important alternative to the conventional methods of Time 
Trade-Off and Standard Gamble. Studies using DCEs have typically used the 
conditional logit to estimate the underlying utility function. The conditional 
logit is known for several limitations. In this paper, we propose two types of 
models based on the mixed logit: one using preference space and the other using 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) space, a concept adapted from the 
willingness-to-pay literature. These methods are applied to a dataset collected 
using the EQ-5D. The results showcase the advantages of using QALY space and 
demonstrate that the preferred QALY space model provides lower estimates of the 
utility values than the conditional logit, with the divergence increasing with 
worsening health states.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.3066
PMID: 24943827 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Curr Ther Res Clin Exp. 2003 Feb;64(2):65-80. doi: 
10.1016/S0011-393X(03)00017-1.

Risk for osteoporosis in elderly nuns: need for better recognition and 
treatment.

Elliott ME(1), Martin BA(1), Kanous NL(1), Carnes M(2), Komoroske B(3), Binkley 
NC(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin School of Pharmacy.
(2)University of Wisconsin School of Medicine, ; National Center of Excellence 
in Women's Health, University of Wisconsin, and.
(3)St. Marys Hospital Medical Center, Madison, Wisconsin, USA.
(4)University of Wisconsin School of Medicine.

BACKGROUND: The risk for osteoporosis in Catholic sisters (nuns) may be even 
higher than that of the general female population given their longer life 
expectancy (82.0 to 89.0 years vs 79.6 years for the average white woman) and 
the use of a traditional habit as a young adult, resulting in limited sun 
exposure (ie, exposure to vitamin D).
OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to determine, in a group of elderly nuns 
attending an annual health screening day (Health Forum), how many met National 
Osteoporosis Foundation (NOF) treatment criteria using peripheral bone mineral 
density (BMD) measurements and risk factors; what proportion received adequate 
vitamin D; whether BMD was related to length of time that nuns wore a habit; and 
whether BMD measurement led to medical interventions. In addition, we compared 
the usefulness of calcaneal BMD with that of BMD at central sites for 
identification of those at risk for osteoporosis.
METHODS: This cross-sectional study assessed BMD by calcaneal dual energy X-ray 
absorptiometry (DXA) and, for some participants, central DXA. A baseline 
questionnaire and follow-up mail survey also were included.
RESULTS: Of the 230 nuns attending the Health Forum, 146 (63%) (mean age, 70 
years; range, 48-90 years) participated in the study. Of these, 14% had 
calcaneal osteoporosis (T-score <-2.5) and 32% met NOF treatment criteria, 
indicating risk comparable to that of other postmenopausal American women. 
Sixty-four percent were receiving less than the recommended amount of vitamin D 
(≥400 IU/d for those aged <71 years and ≥600 IU/d for those aged ≥71 years). 
Calcaneal BMD was inversely related to the length of time nuns had worn a habit. 
Fifty-six women subsequently underwent central DXA. Using a calcaneal T-score of 
-1.2 to identify those with central osteoporosis, sensitivity and specificity of 
78% and 76%, respectively, were obtained. According to the mail survey, 11 of 42 
respondents who had met NOF treatment criteria started new medications for 
osteoporosis.
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly nuns are at substantial risk for osteoporosis. Most receive 
inadequate vitamin D. For nuns and others who may have limited access to central 
DXA measurement, peripheral measurements may help identify those in need of 
further intervention. Further efforts, in addition to BMD measurements, are 
necessary to ensure appropriate therapy for those who meet treatment criteria.

DOI: 10.1016/S0011-393X(03)00017-1
PMCID: PMC4053027
PMID: 24944357


529. World J Cardiol. 2014 May 26;6(5):283-94. doi: 10.4330/wjc.v6.i5.283.

Hypertension and chronic ethanol consumption: What do we know after a century of 
study?

Marchi KC(1), Muniz JJ(1), Tirapelli CR(1).

Author information:
(1)Katia Colombo Marchi, Programa de pós-graduação em Farmacologia, Faculdade de 
Medicina de Ribeirão Preto, Universidade de São Paulo, São Paulo, CEP 14040-900, 
Brazil.

The influences of life habits on the cardiovascular system may have important 
implications for public health, as cardiovascular diseases are among the leading 
causes of shorter life expectancy worldwide. A link between excessive ethyl 
alcohol (ethanol) consumption and arterial hypertension was first suggested 
early last century. Since then, this proposition has received considerable 
attention. Support for the concept of ethanol as a cause of hypertension derives 
from several epidemiologic studies demonstrating that in the general population, 
increased blood pressure is significantly correlated with ethanol consumption. 
Although the link between ethanol consumption and hypertension is well 
established, the mechanism through which ethanol increases blood pressure 
remains elusive. Possible mechanisms underlying ethanol-induced hypertension 
were proposed based on clinical and experimental observations. These mechanisms 
include an increase in sympathetic nervous system activity, stimulation of the 
renin-angiotensin-aldosterone system, an increase of intracellular Ca(2+) in 
vascular smooth muscle, increased oxidative stress and endothelial dysfunction. 
The present report reviews the relationship between ethanol intake and 
hypertension and highlights some mechanisms underlying this response. These 
issues are of interest for the public health, as ethanol consumption contributes 
to blood pressure elevation in the population.

DOI: 10.4330/wjc.v6.i5.283
PMCID: PMC4062120
PMID: 24944758


530. World J Clin Cases. 2014 Jun 16;2(6):211-4. doi: 10.12998/wjcc.v2.i6.211.

Abnormal electrocardiogram in a patient with amyotrophic lateral sclerosis 
mimicking myocardial ischaemia.

Martínez J(1), Ramón C(1), Morís C(1), Pascual J(1), Morís G(1).

Author information:
(1)Juana Martínez, César Ramón, Julio Pascual, Germán Morís, Neurology 
Department, Hospital Universitario Central Asturias, 33006 Oviedo, Spain.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive neurodegenerative disorder 
that almost exclusively involves motor neurons although autonomic dysfunction 
has also been reported. We present an 84-year-old female with no documented 
history of heart disease, who was admitted with negative T waves in the 
electrocardiogram precordial leads mimicking myocardial ischaemia. No other 
abnormalities were shown in the rest of the cardiologic evaluation, suggesting 
autonomic nervous system dysfunction. A neurophysiological study demonstrated 
acute and chronic denervation in multiple muscles with normal nerve conduction 
studies, confirming ALS diagnosis. Previous studies have shown that subclinical 
sympathetic hyperfunction and parasympathetic hypofunction might result in 
cardiovascular dysfunction in ALS patients. It is important to detect 
disturbances of autonomic cardiac control because this dysfunction may influence 
survival and quality of life, leading to a decrease in life expectancy in ALS 
patients. This Case Report may support the impairment of cardiac autonomic 
control in patients with ALS.

DOI: 10.12998/wjcc.v2.i6.211
PMCID: PMC4061311
PMID: 24945009


531. PLoS Genet. 2014 Jun 19;10(6):e1004385. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004385. 
eCollection 2014 Jun.

Loss of UCP2 attenuates mitochondrial dysfunction without altering ROS 
production and uncoupling activity.

Kukat A(1), Dogan SA(2), Edgar D(3), Mourier A(4), Jacoby C(5), Maiti P(2), 
Mauer J(6), Becker C(2), Senft K(2), Wibom R(3), Kudin AP(7), Hultenby K(3), 
Flögel U(5), Rosenkranz S(8), Ricquier D(9), Kunz WS(7), Trifunovic A(10).

Author information:
(1)Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated 
Diseases (CECAD) and Institute for Mitochondrial Diseases and Aging, Medical 
Faculty, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany; Department of Laboratory 
Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated 
Diseases (CECAD) and Institute for Mitochondrial Diseases and Aging, Medical 
Faculty, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(3)Department of Laboratory Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(4)Max Planck Institute for Biology of Aging, Cologne, Germany.
(5)Department of Cardiovascular Physiology, Heinrich-Heine-University, 
Düsseldorf, Germany.
(6)Max Planck Institute for Neurological Research, Cologne, Germany.
(7)Department of Epileptology, University of Bonn, Bonn, Germany.
(8)Department III of Internal Medicine, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany; 
Cologne Cardiovascular Research Center (CCRC) and Center for Molecular Medicine 
Cologne, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.
(9)University Paris Descartes, Faculty of Medicine, CNRS FRE3210, Paris, France.
(10)Cologne Excellence Cluster on Cellular Stress Responses in Aging-Associated 
Diseases (CECAD) and Institute for Mitochondrial Diseases and Aging, Medical 
Faculty, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany; Department of Laboratory 
Medicine, Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden; Cologne Cardiovascular 
Research Center (CCRC) and Center for Molecular Medicine Cologne, University of 
Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Although mitochondrial dysfunction is often accompanied by excessive reactive 
oxygen species (ROS) production, we previously showed that an increase in random 
somatic mtDNA mutations does not result in increased oxidative stress. Normal 
levels of ROS and oxidative stress could also be a result of an active 
compensatory mechanism such as a mild increase in proton leak. Uncoupling 
protein 2 (UCP2) was proposed to play such a role in many physiological 
situations. However, we show that upregulation of UCP2 in mtDNA mutator mice is 
not associated with altered proton leak kinetics or ROS production, challenging 
the current view on the role of UCP2 in energy metabolism. Instead, our results 
argue that high UCP2 levels allow better utilization of fatty acid oxidation 
resulting in a beneficial effect on mitochondrial function in heart, postponing 
systemic lactic acidosis and resulting in longer lifespan in these mice. This 
study proposes a novel mechanism for an adaptive response to mitochondrial 
cardiomyopathy that links changes in metabolism to amelioration of respiratory 
chain deficiency and longer lifespan.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004385
PMCID: PMC4063685
PMID: 24945157 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


532. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 19;9(6):e98746. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098746. 
eCollection 2014.

Unification theory of optimal life histories and linear demographic models in 
internal stochasticity.

Oizumi R(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Mathematical Science, University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

Life history of organisms is exposed to uncertainty generated by internal and 
external stochasticities. Internal stochasticity is generated by the randomness 
in each individual life history, such as randomness in food intake, genetic 
character and size growth rate, whereas external stochasticity is due to the 
environment. For instance, it is known that the external stochasticity tends to 
affect population growth rate negatively. It has been shown in a recent 
theoretical study using path-integral formulation in structured linear 
demographic models that internal stochasticity can affect population growth rate 
positively or negatively. However, internal stochasticity has not been the main 
subject of researches. Taking account of effect of internal stochasticity on the 
population growth rate, the fittest organism has the optimal control of life 
history affected by the stochasticity in the habitat. The study of this control 
is known as the optimal life schedule problems. In order to analyze the optimal 
control under internal stochasticity, we need to make use of "Stochastic Control 
Theory" in the optimal life schedule problem. There is, however, no such kind of 
theory unifying optimal life history and internal stochasticity. This study 
focuses on an extension of optimal life schedule problems to unify control 
theory of internal stochasticity into linear demographic models. First, we show 
the relationship between the general age-states linear demographic models and 
the stochastic control theory via several mathematical formulations, such as 
path-integral, integral equation, and transition matrix. Secondly, we apply our 
theory to a two-resource utilization model for two different breeding systems: 
semelparity and iteroparity. Finally, we show that the diversity of resources is 
important for species in a case. Our study shows that this unification theory 
can address risk hedges of life history in general age-states linear demographic 
models.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098746
PMCID: PMC4063715
PMID: 24945258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


533. Klin Onkol. 2014;27 Suppl 1:S137-42. doi: 10.14735/amko20141s137.

["Technetium crisis" -  causes, possible solutions and consequences for planar 
scintigraphy and SPECT diagnostics].

[Article in Czech]

Adam J, Kadeřávek J, Kužel F, Vašina J, Rehák Z.

Nuclear medicine is an important field of nuclear medicine, especially thanks to 
its role in in vivo imaging of important processes in human organism. An 
overwhelming majority of nuclear medicine examinations comprises of planar 
scintigraphy and single photon emission computed tomography, for decades relying 
on the labeling by metastable technetium nuclide (99mTc), used with a great 
diversity of ligands for various applications. Nuclear medicine departments 
utilize commercially available molybdenum technetium generators, being able to 
elute the nuclide at any time and prepare the radiopharmaceutical. The mother 
nuclide, molybdenum-99 (99Mo), is produced in just a handful of places around 
the world. The production places are without exception research nuclear reactors 
working far past their life expectancy. A concurrent temporary shutdown of two 
of them in the year 2009 caused a critical worldwide shortage of 99mTc. An 
unavoidable permanent shutdown of part of these capacities in the second decade 
of the 21st century will cause the second, and this time rather permanent 
"technetium crisis". The article focuses on history, present, potential future 
and possible solutions in regard to SPECT diagnostics.

DOI: 10.14735/amko20141s137
PMID: 24945551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Int J Psychiatry Clin Pract. 2009;13(1):16-20. doi:
10.1080/13651500802271241.

Are age-related trends in suicide rates associated with life expectancy and 
socio-economic factors?

Shah A(1).

Author information:
(1)Ageing, Ethnicity and Mental Health, University of Central Lancashire, 
Preston, UK.

Background. A recent cross-national study reported that suicide rates increased, 
decreased or remained unchanged with increasing age in individual countries. The 
relationship between age-related trends in suicide rates and child mortality 
rates, life expectancy and socio-economic factors was examined. Methods. 
Countries with an increase, decrease and no change in suicide rates with 
increasing age were ascertained from an earlier study (Shah, 2007a, 
International Psychogeriatrics, 19, 1141), which analysed data from the World 
Health Organisation (WHO). The relationship between age-related trends in 
suicide rates and (i) child mortality rates, (ii) life expectancy and (iii) 
markers of socio-economic status (per capita gross national domestic product 
(GDP) and the Gini coeffcient) was examined using data from the WHO and the 
United Nations. Results. The main findings were: (i) child mortality rates were 
significantly lower in countries with an increase in suicide rates with 
increasing age when compared to countries without a change in suicide rates with 
increasing age in males; (ii) life expectancy was significantly higher in 
countries with an increase in suicide rates with increasing age when compared to 
countries without a change in suicide rates with increasing age in males; and 
(iii) the Gini coefficient was significantly lower in countries with an increase 
in suicide rates with increasing age when compared to countries without a change 
or a decline in suicide rates with increasing age in females. Conclusions. 
Potential explanations for these findings and the interaction of life expectancy 
and socio-economic factors with other factors that differentially influence 
suicide rates in different age and sex groups requires further examination.

DOI: 10.1080/13651500802271241
PMID: 24946117


535. Int J Mol Med. 2014 Sep;34(3):796-803. doi: 10.3892/ijmm.2014.1815. Epub
2014  Jun 19.

Protective effect of porphyra-334 on UVA-induced photoaging in human skin 
fibroblasts.

Ryu J(1), Park SJ(1), Kim IH(2), Choi YH(2), Nam TJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food and Life Science, Pukyong National University, Busan 
608-737, Republic of Korea.
(2)Institute of Fisheries Sciences, Pukyong National University, Busan 619-911, 
Republic of Korea.

The significant increase in life expectancy is closely related to the growing 
interest in the impact of aging on the function and appearance of the skin. Skin 
aging is influenced by several factors, and solar ultraviolet (UV) irradiation 
is considered one of the most important causes of skin photoaging. The aim of 
this study was to examine the anti-photoaging role of porphyra-334 from 
Porphyra (P.) yezoensis, a mycosporine-like amino acid (MAA), using 
high-performance liquid chromatography (HPLC), and electrospray ionization‑mass 
spectrometry (ESI-MS). In the present study, extracted UV‑absorbing compounds 
from P. yezoensis included palythine, asterina-330 and porphyra-334. 
Porphyra-334 was the most abundant MAA in P. yezoensis, and it was therefore 
used for conducting antiphotoaging experiments. The effect of porphyra-334 on 
the prevention of photoaging was investigated by measuring reactive oxygen 
species (ROS) production and matrix metalloproteinase (MMP) levels, as well as 
extracellular matrix (ECM) components and protein expression in UVA‑irradiated 
human skin fibroblasts. Porphyra-334 suppressed ROS production and the 
expression of MMPs following UVA irradiation, while increasing levels of ECM 
components, such as procollagen, type I collagen, elastin. These results suggest 
that porphyra-334 has various applications in cosmetics and toiletries because 
of its anti‑photoaging activities and may serve as a novel anti-aging agent.

DOI: 10.3892/ijmm.2014.1815
PMCID: PMC4121349
PMID: 24946848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. Hum Mol Genet. 2014 Nov 15;23(22):5916-27. doi: 10.1093/hmg/ddu316. Epub
2014  Jun 19.

Caenorhabditis elegans dnj-14, the orthologue of the DNAJC5 gene mutated in 
adult onset neuronal ceroid lipofuscinosis, provides a new platform for 
neuroprotective drug screening and identifies a SIR-2.1-independent action of 
resveratrol.

Kashyap SS(1), Johnson JR(1), McCue HV(1), Chen X(1), Edmonds MJ(1), Ayala M(1), 
Graham ME(1), Jenn RC(1), Barclay JW(1), Burgoyne RD(1), Morgan A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Institute of Translational 
Medicine, University of Liverpool, Crown St, Liverpool L69 3BX, UK.
(2)Department of Cellular and Molecular Physiology, Institute of Translational 
Medicine, University of Liverpool, Crown St, Liverpool L69 3BX, UK 
amorgan@liverpool.ac.uk.

Adult onset neuronal lipofuscinosis (ANCL) is a human neurodegenerative disorder 
characterized by progressive neuronal dysfunction and premature death. Recently, 
the mutations that cause ANCL were mapped to the DNAJC5 gene, which encodes 
cysteine string protein alpha. We show here that mutating dnj-14, the 
Caenorhabditis elegans orthologue of DNAJC5, results in shortened lifespan and a 
small impairment of locomotion and neurotransmission. Mutant dnj-14 worms also 
exhibited age-dependent neurodegeneration of sensory neurons, which was preceded 
by severe progressive chemosensory defects. A focussed chemical screen revealed 
that resveratrol could ameliorate dnj-14 mutant phenotypes, an effect mimicked 
by the cAMP phosphodiesterase inhibitor, rolipram. In contrast to other worm 
neurodegeneration models, activation of the Sirtuin, SIR-2.1, was not required, 
as sir-2.1; dnj-14 double mutants showed full lifespan rescue by resveratrol. 
The Sirtuin-independent neuroprotective action of resveratrol revealed here 
suggests potential therapeutic applications for ANCL and possibly other human 
neurodegenerative diseases.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/hmg/ddu316
PMCID: PMC4204773
PMID: 24947438 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Haemophilia. 2014 Jul;20(4):e356-8. doi: 10.1111/hae.12475.

Life expectancy of Korean haemophiliacs, 1991-2012.

Yoo KY(1), Kim SK, Kwon SS, Park SK, Yoon HJ, Lee KS, Hwang TJ, Choi YM, Lee SY.

Author information:
(1)Korea Hemophilia Foundation, Seoul, Korea.

DOI: 10.1111/hae.12475
PMID: 24948408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Sleep Breath. 2015 Mar;19(1):61-3. doi: 10.1007/s11325-014-1021-x. Epub 2014
Jun  20.

Oral appliance to assist non-invasive ventilation in a patient with amyotrophic 
lateral sclerosis.

Veldhuis SK(1), Doff MH, Stegenga B, Nieuwenhuis JA, Wijkstra PJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Maxillofacial Surgery, University Medical Center 
Groningen, University of Groningen, Hanzeplein 1, P.O. Box 30.001, 9700 RB, 
Groningen, The Netherlands, s.k.b.veldhuis@alumnus.rug.nl.

BACKGROUND: From the moment the respiratory muscle groups are affected in 
amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS), respiratory complications will be the major 
cause of morbidity and mortality. Untreated respiratory muscle impairment leads 
to respiratory insufficiency and additionally to difficulties in airway 
secretion clearance. Non-invasive ventilation (NIV) is the first choice in 
treating respiratory insufficiency in ALS as it improves sleep-related symptoms, 
quality of life and life expectancy. Nevertheless, NIV is not always effective, 
probably due to bulbar dysfunction or anatomical abnormalities. As a result, 
tracheostomy ventilation (TV) may become necessary.
METHODS: In this case report, we present a 60-year-old female with ALS, for whom 
it was not possible to provide a sufficient tidal volume with NIV. A chin lift 
was performed while the patient was awake to see if a more anterior jaw position 
would lead to an increased tidal volume. As this was the case, a mandibular 
advancement device (MAD) was fabricated.
RESULTS: With a combination of a MAD and NIV, the upper airway obstructions were 
overcome and a good ventilation and adherence to therapy were seen.
CONCLUSIONS: When there is the presumption of airway obstructions in combination 
with an ineffective NIV, we advise to perform a chin lift to assess whether the 
obstructions can be overcome by a more anterior jaw position. If that is the 
case, NIV may be combined with MAD to establish effective ventilation and avoid 
the use of TV.

DOI: 10.1007/s11325-014-1021-x
PMID: 24948477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Ann Bot. 2014 Aug;114(2):369-76. doi: 10.1093/aob/mcu113. Epub 2014 Jun 19.

Plant traits and ecosystem effects of clonality: a new research agenda.

Cornelissen JH(1), Song YB(2), Yu FH(3), Dong M(2).

Author information:
(1)Systems Ecology, Department of Ecological Science, Faculty of Earth and Life 
Sciences, VU University, De Boelelaan 1085, 1081 HV Amsterdam, The Netherlands 
j.h.c.cornelissen@vu.nl.
(2)Key Laboratory of Hangzhou City for Ecosystem Protection and Restoration, 
College of Life and Environmental Sciences, Hangzhou Normal University, Hangzhou 
310036, China State Key Laboratory of Vegetation and Environmental Change, 
Institute of Botany, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing 100093, China.
(3)School of Nature Conservation, Beijing Forestry University, Beijing 100083, 
China.

BACKGROUND: Clonal plants spread laterally by spacers between their ramets 
(shoot-root units); these spacers can transport and store resources. While much 
is known about how clonality promotes plant fitness, we know little about how 
different clonal plants influence ecosystem functions related to carbon, 
nutrient and water cycling.
APPROACH: The response-effect trait framework is used to formulate hypotheses 
about the impact of clonality on ecosystems. Central to this framework is the 
degree of correspondence between interspecific variation in clonal 'response 
traits' that promote plant fitness and interspecific variation in 'effect 
traits', which define a plant's potential effect on ecosystem functions. The 
main example presented to illustrate this concept concerns clonal traits of 
vascular plant species that determine their lateral extension patterns. In 
combination with the different degrees of decomposability of litter derived from 
their spacers, leaves, roots and stems, these clonal traits should determine 
associated spatial and temporal patterns in soil organic matter accumulation, 
nutrient availability and water retention.
CONCLUSIONS: This review gives some concrete pointers as to how to implement 
this new research agenda through a combination of (1) standardized screening of 
predominant species in ecosystems for clonal response traits and for effect 
traits related to carbon, nutrient and water cycling; (2) analysing the overlap 
between variation in these response traits and effect traits across species; (3) 
linking spatial and temporal patterns of clonal species in the field to those 
for soil properties related to carbon, nutrient and water stocks and dynamics; 
and (4) studying the effects of biotic interactions and feedbacks between 
resource heterogeneity and clonality. Linking these to environmental changes may 
help us to better understand and predict the role of clonal plants in modulating 
impacts of climate change and human activities on ecosystem functions.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Annals 
of Botany Company.

DOI: 10.1093/aob/mcu113
PMCID: PMC4111380
PMID: 24948670 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


540. Zhongguo Fei Ai Za Zhi. 2014 Jun 20;17(6):460-4. doi: 
10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.06.04.

[Radiofrequency ablation for lung neoplasms with isolated postsurgical local 
 recurrences or metastases of non-small cell lung cancer].

[Article in Chinese; Abstract available in Chinese from the publisher]

Liu B(1), Liu L(1), Hu M(1), Qian K(1), Li Y(1), Zhi X(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Xuanwu Hospital, Capital Medical University, 
Beijing 100053, China.

BACKGROUND: Primary lung cancer is one of the most common malignancies 
worldwide. Surgical resection remains the first choice for the treatment of 
early stage non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC). Relapse after surgery sharply 
reduces the patient's life expectancy. This relapse is referred to as isolated 
postsurgical local recurrences or metastases (IPSLROM), which can be treated via 
local therapy to achieve long-term survival or cure. In recent years, 
radiofrequency ablation (RFA) has been increasingly used as a non-surgical 
treatment option for patients with primary and metastatic lung tumors. This 
study aims to evaluate the efficacy of RFA among patients with IPSLROM of NSCLC.
METHODS: A total of 20 patients underwent computerd tomograghy (CT)-guided RFA 
for lung neoplasm with IPSLROM of NSCLC (with unresectable disease because of 
poor lung reserve or multifocality) in our hospital between December 2008 and 
November 2013. These patients comprised 15 males and 5 females with a mean age 
of 69.2 years (range: 45-85). All patients exhibited pathological evidence of 
neoplastic lesion (14 tumors were adenocarcinoma, and six were squamous cell 
carcinoma). The mean size of the lesions was 3.9 cm (range: 2.0 cm to 8.0 cm). 
Treatment complications, progression-free survival (PFS), and survival 
parameters were retrospectively analyzed.
RESULTS: RFA was well tolerated by all patients with an average time of 34.3 min 
(range: 15 min to 60 min). Intraprocedural complications included eight cases of 
chest pain (40%). No procedure-related deaths occurred in all of the 20 ablation 
procedures. The median PFS was 25 months in all of the patients who received 
RFA. The median overall survival for the entire group of patients was 27.0 
months. No differences were observed in the overall survival between patients 
with IPSLROM. The overall survival rates at 1 and 2 years after RFA were 92.9% 
and 57.0%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: RFA is a safe and effective procedure in unresectable lung tumors 
with IPSLROM of NSCLC.

Publisher: 背景与目的 
肺癌是最常见的恶性肿瘤之一，外科手术仍是早期非小细胞肺癌的首选治疗手段，然而术后复发降低了患者的生存预期。但是部分患者如局部复发或孤立性肺内转移通过局部治疗可以延长生存甚至治愈。射频消融术（radio-frequency 
ablation, 
RFA）成为一种不适合手术治疗的原发性或转移性肺肿瘤的新的局部治疗手段。本研究的目的是评价非小细胞肺癌切除术后肺内孤立性复发转移灶的治疗效果。方法 
2008年12月-2013年11月对20例肺癌切除术后不能再次手术的孤立性肺内转移复发灶进行CT引导下射频消融术。男性15例，女性5例，年龄45岁-85岁，平均69.2±11.6岁。全组病例均有病理学证实（腺癌14例、鳞癌6例）。病灶直径最小2.0 
cm，最大8.0 cm，平均3.9±2.0 cm。对其并发症、无进展生存（progression-free survival, 
PFS）和总生存期进行回顾性分析。结果　全组病例均能完成射频消融术，平均消融时间为34.3 min（15 min-60 
min），术中常见的并发症是胸痛8例（40%），无围术期死亡。中位PFS为25.0个月；中位生存时间27.0个月，1年生存率为92.9%，2年生存率为57%。结论 
RFA对非小细胞肺癌术后不能耐受再次手术的肺内孤立性转移复发安全可行。

DOI: 10.3779/j.issn.1009-3419.2014.06.04
PMCID: PMC6000097
PMID: 24949685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]541. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 20;9(6):e99966. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099966. 
eCollection 2014.

Multilevel hierarchical kernel spectral clustering for real-life large scale 
complex networks.

Mall R(1), Langone R(1), Suykens JA(1).

Author information:
(1)ESAT-STADIUS, KU Leuven, Leuven, Belgium.

Kernel spectral clustering corresponds to a weighted kernel principal component 
analysis problem in a constrained optimization framework. The primal formulation 
leads to an eigen-decomposition of a centered Laplacian matrix at the dual 
level. The dual formulation allows to build a model on a representative subgraph 
of the large scale network in the training phase and the model parameters are 
estimated in the validation stage. The KSC model has a powerful out-of-sample 
extension property which allows cluster affiliation for the unseen nodes of the 
big data network. In this paper we exploit the structure of the projections in 
the eigenspace during the validation stage to automatically determine a set of 
increasing distance thresholds. We use these distance thresholds in the test 
phase to obtain multiple levels of hierarchy for the large scale network. The 
hierarchical structure in the network is determined in a bottom-up fashion. We 
empirically showcase that real-world networks have multilevel hierarchical 
organization which cannot be detected efficiently by several state-of-the-art 
large scale hierarchical community detection techniques like the Louvain, OSLOM 
and Infomap methods. We show that a major advantage of our proposed approach is 
the ability to locate good quality clusters at both the finer and coarser levels 
of hierarchy using internal cluster quality metrics on 7 real-life networks.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0099966
PMCID: PMC4065034
PMID: 24949877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: No companies are involved 
in the project and the authors declare that this does not alter their adherence 
to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


542. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 20;9(6):e100290. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100290. 
eCollection 2014.

Cell wall modifications during conidial maturation of the human pathogenic 
fungus Pseudallescheria boydii.

Ghamrawi S(1), Rénier G(2), Saulnier P(3), Cuenot S(4), Zykwinska A(4), Dutilh 
BE(5), Thornton C(6), Faure S(7), Bouchara JP(2).

Author information:
(1)L'UNAM Université, Université d'Angers, Groupe d'Etude des Interactions 
Hôte-Pathogène EA 3142, Angers, France.
(2)L'UNAM Université, Université d'Angers, Groupe d'Etude des Interactions 
Hôte-Pathogène EA 3142, Angers, France; Laboratoire de Parasitologie-Mycologie, 
Centre Hospitalier Universitaire, Angers, France.
(3)L'UNAM Université, University d'Angers, INSERM U646, Angers, France.
(4)L'UNAM Université, Université de Nantes, Institut des Matériaux Jean Rouxel, 
Nantes, France.
(5)Centre for Molecular and Biomolecular Informatics, Radboud University Medical 
Centre, Nijmegen, The Netherlands; Department of Marine Biology, Institute of 
Biology, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(6)Department of Biosciences, University of Exeter, Biosciences, Exeter, United 
Kingdom.
(7)L'UNAM Université, INSERM U1063, Angers, France.

Progress in extending the life expectancy of cystic fibrosis (CF) patients 
remains jeopardized by the increasing incidence of fungal respiratory 
infections. Pseudallescheria boydii (P. boydii), an emerging pathogen of humans, 
is a filamentous fungus frequently isolated from the respiratory secretions of 
CF patients. It is commonly believed that infection by this fungus occurs 
through inhalation of airborne conidia, but the mechanisms allowing the 
adherence of Pseudallescheria to the host epithelial cells and its escape from 
the host immune defenses remain largely unknown. Given that the cell wall 
orchestrates all these processes, we were interested in studying its dynamic 
changes in conidia as function of the age of cultures. We found that the surface 
hydrophobicity and electronegative charge of conidia increased with the age of 
culture. Melanin that can influence the cell surface properties, was extracted 
from conidia and estimated using UV-visible spectrophotometry. Cells were also 
directly examined and compared using electron paramagnetic resonance (EPR) that 
determines the production of free radicals. Consistent with the increased amount 
of melanin, the EPR signal intensity decreased suggesting polymerization of 
melanin. These results were confirmed by flow cytometry after studying the 
effect of melanin polymerization on the surface accessibility of 
mannose-containing glycoconjugates to fluorescent concanavalin A. In the absence 
of melanin, conidia showed a marked increase in fluorescence intensity as the 
age of culture increased. Using atomic force microscopy, we were unable to find 
rodlet-forming hydrophobins, molecules that can also affect conidial surface 
properties. In conclusion, the changes in surface properties and biochemical 
composition of the conidial wall with the age of culture highlight the process 
of conidial maturation. Mannose-containing glycoconjugates that are involved in 
immune recognition, are progressively masked by polymerization of melanin, an 
antioxidant that is commonly thought to allow fungal escape from the host immune 
defenses.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0100290
PMCID: PMC4065047
PMID: 24950099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


543. J Med Econ. 2014 Sep;17(9):658-69. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2014.933110. Epub
2014  Jun 26.

Cost-effectiveness of add-on treatments to metformin in a Swedish setting: 
liraglutide vs sulphonylurea or sitagplitin.

Steen Carlsson K(1), Persson U.

Author information:
(1)The Swedish Institute for Health Economics, IHE , Lund , Sweden.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate long-run cost-effectiveness in a Swedish setting for 
liraglutide compared with sulphonylureas (glimepiride) or sitagliptin, all as 
add-on to metformin for patients with type 2 diabetes insufficiently controlled 
with metformin in monotherapy.
METHODS: The IHE Cohort Model of Type 2 Diabetes was used to evaluate clinical 
and economic outcomes from a societal perspective. Model input data were 
obtained from two clinical trials, the Swedish National Diabetes Register and 
the literature. Cost data reflected year 2013 price level. The robustness of 
results was checked with one-way-sensitivity analysis and probability 
sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: The cost per QALY gained for liraglutide (1.2 mg) compared to SU 
(glimepiride 4 mg), both as add-on to metformin, ranged from SEK 226,000 to SEK 
255,000 in analyzed patient cohorts. The cost per QALY for liraglutide (1.2 mg) 
vs sitagliptin (100 mg) as second-line treatment was lower, ranging from SEK 
149,000 to SEK 161,000. Costs of preventive treatment were driving costs, but 
there was also a cost offset from reduced costs of complications of ∼ 20%. 
Notable cost differences were found for nephropathy, stroke, and heart failure. 
The predicted life expectancy with liraglutide increased the cost of net 
consumption for liraglutide.
LIMITATIONS: The analysis was an ex-ante analysis using model input data from 
clinical trials which may not reflect effectiveness in real-world clinical 
practice in broader patient populations. This limitation was explored in the 
sensitivity analysis. The lack of specific data on loss of production due to 
diabetes complications implied that these costs may be under-estimated.
CONCLUSIONS: Treatment strategies with liraglutide 1.2 mg improved the expected 
quality-of-life and increased costs when compared to SU and to sitagliptin for 
second-line add-on treatments. The cost per QALY for liraglutide was in the 
range considered medium by Swedish authorities.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2014.933110
PMID: 24950434 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Age Ageing. 2014 Nov;43(6):794-800. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afu067. Epub 2014
Jun  20.

Cost-effectiveness of telecare for people with social care needs: the Whole 
Systems Demonstrator cluster randomised trial.

Henderson C(1), Knapp M(2), Fernández JL(1), Beecham J(1), Hirani SP(3), Beynon 
M(3), Cartwright M(3), Rixon L(3), Doll H(4), Bower P(5), Steventon A(6), Rogers 
A(7), Fitzpatrick R(8), Barlow J(9), Bardsley M(6), Newman SP(3).

Author information:
(1)Personal Social Services Research Unit, London School of Economics and 
Political Science, Houghton St, London, UK.
(2)Personal Social Services Research Unit, London School of Economics and 
Political Science, Houghton St, London, UK King's College, London, UK.
(3)City University, London, UK.
(4)University of East Anglia, Norwich, UK.
(5)NIHR School for Primary Care Research, Manchester Academic Health Science 
Centre, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK.
(6)The Nuffield Trust, London, UK.
(7)University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.
(8)University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(9)Imperial College, London, UK.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: to examine the costs and cost-effectiveness of 
'second-generation' telecare, in addition to standard support and care that 
could include 'first-generation' forms of telecare, compared with standard 
support and care that could include 'first-generation' forms of telecare.
DESIGN AND METHODS: a pragmatic cluster-randomised controlled trial with nested 
economic evaluation. A total of 2,600 people with social care needs participated 
in a trial of community-based telecare in three English local authority areas. 
In the Whole Systems Demonstrator Telecare Questionnaire Study, 550 participants 
were randomised to intervention and 639 to control. Participants who were 
offered the telecare intervention received a package of equipment and monitoring 
services for 12 months, additional to their standard health and social care 
services. The control group received usual health and social care.
PRIMARY OUTCOME MEASURE: incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
gained. The analyses took a health and social care perspective.
RESULTS: cost per additional QALY was £297,000. Cost-effectiveness acceptability 
curves indicated that the probability of cost-effectiveness at a 
willingness-to-pay of £30,000 per QALY gained was only 16%. Sensitivity analyses 
combining variations in equipment price and support cost parameters yielded a 
cost-effectiveness ratio of £161,000 per QALY.
IMPLICATIONS: while QALY gain in the intervention group was similar to that for 
controls, social and health services costs were higher. Second-generation 
telecare did not appear to be a cost-effective addition to usual care, assuming 
a commonly accepted willingness to pay for QALYs.
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN 43002091.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afu067
PMCID: PMC4204660
PMID: 24950690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Lancet Oncol. 2014 Jul;15(8):894-904. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70024-5.
Epub  2014 Jun 17.

Gefitinib for oesophageal cancer progressing after chemotherapy (COG): a phase 
3, multicentre, double-blind, placebo-controlled randomised trial.

Dutton SJ(1), Ferry DR(2), Blazeby JM(3), Abbas H(4), Dahle-Smith A(5), Mansoor 
W(6), Thompson J(7), Harrison M(8), Chatterjee A(9), Falk S(10), Garcia-Alonso 
A(11), Fyfe DW(12), Hubner RA(6), Gamble T(7), Peachey L(13), Davoudianfar 
M(13), Pearson SR(13), Julier P(13), Jankowski J(14), Kerr R(13), Petty RD(5).

Author information:
(1)Oxford Clinical Trials Research Unit and Centre for Statistics in Medicine, 
Nuffield Department of Orthopaedics, Rheumatology and Musculoskeletal Sciences, 
University of Oxford, Botnar Research Centre, Oxford, UK. Electronic address: 
susan.dutton@csm.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Royal Wolverhampton Hospitals NHS Trust, Wolverhampton, UK; Lilly UK, Erl 
Wood Manor, Windlesham, UK.
(3)University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, Bristol, UK; School of 
Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol Senate House, Bristol, UK.
(4)Royal Wolverhampton Hospitals NHS Trust, Wolverhampton, UK.
(5)University of Aberdeen, Institute of Medical Sciences, Aberdeen, UK.
(6)Christie Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Manchester, UK.
(7)Birmingham Heartlands Hospital, Birmingham, UK.
(8)Mount Vernon Cancer Centre, Northwood, UK.
(9)Royal Shrewsbury Hospital, Shrewsbury, UK.
(10)University Hospitals Bristol NHS Foundation Trust, Bristol, UK.
(11)North Wales Cancer Centre, Glan Clwyd Hospital, Rhyl, UK.
(12)University Hospitals of Morecombe Bay, Furness General Hospital, 
Barrow-in-Furness, UK.
(13)Oncology Clinical Trials Office, University of Oxford, Department of 
Oncology, Old Road Campus Research Building, University of Oxford, Old Road 
Campus, Oxford, UK.
(14)Health and Life Sciences, Coventry University, Coventry, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2014 Jul;15(8):790-1.

BACKGROUND: Evidence is scarce for the effectiveness of therapies for 
oesophageal cancer progressing after chemotherapy, and no randomised trials have 
been reported. We aimed to compare gefitinib with placebo in previously treated 
advanced oesophageal cancer.
METHODS: For this phase 3, parallel, randomised, placebo-controlled trial, 
eligible patients were adults with advanced oesophageal cancer or type I/II 
Siewert junctional tumours, histologically confirmed squamous-cell carcinoma or 
adenocarcinoma, who had progressed after chemotherapy, with WHO performance 
status 0-2, and with measurable or evaluable disease on CT scan. Participants 
were recruited from 48 UK centres and randomly assigned (1:1) to gefitinib (500 
mg) or matching placebo by simple randomisation with no stratification factors. 
Patients, clinicians, and trial office staff were masked to treatment 
allocation. Treatment continued until disease progression, unacceptable 
toxicity, or patient choice. The primary outcome was overall survival, analysed 
by intention to treat. This trial is registered, number ISRCTN29580179.
FINDINGS: Between March 30, 2009, and Nov 18, 2011, 450 patients were randomly 
assigned to treatment groups (one patient withdrew consent; 224 patients 
allocated gefitinib and 225 allocated placebo included in analyses). Overall 
survival did not differ between groups (median 3·73 months, 95% CI 3·23-4·50, 
for gefitinib vs 3·67 months, 95% CI 2·97-4·37, for placebo; hazard ratio [HR] 
0·90, 95% CI 0·74-1·09, p=0·29). Among the prespecified patient-reported 
outcomes (110 patients on gefitinib and 121 on placebo completed both baseline 
and 4 week questionnaires and were included in analyses), odynophagia was 
significantly better in the gefitinib group (adjusted mean difference -8·61, 95% 
CI -14·49 to -2·73; n=227; p=0·004), whereas the other outcomes were not 
significantly improved compared with placebo: global quality of life (2·69, 95% 
CI -2·33 to 7·72, n=231, p=0·293), dysphagia (-3·18, 95% CI -8·36 to 2·00, 
n=231, p=0·228), and eating (-4·11, 95% CI -9·96 to 1·75, n=229, p=0·168). 
Median progression-free survival was marginally longer with gefitinib than it 
was with placebo (1·57 months, 95% CI 1·23-1·90 in the gefitinib group vs 1·17 
months, 95% CI 1·07-1·37 in the placebo group; HR 0·80, 95% CI 0·66-0·96, 
p=0·020). The most common toxicities were diarrhoea (36 [16%] of 224 patients on 
gefitinib vs six [3%] of 225 on placebo) and skin toxicity (46 [21%] vs two 
[1%]), both mostly grade 2. The commonest grade 3-4 toxicities were fatigue (24 
[11%] vs 13 [6%] patients) and diarrhoea (13 [6%] vs two [1%]). Serious adverse 
events were reported in 109 (49%) of 224 patients assigned to gefitinib and 101 
(45%) of 225 on placebo. 54 (24%) of patients in the gefitinib group achieved 
disease control at 8 weeks, as did 35 (16%) of patients on placebo (p=0·023).
INTERPRETATION: The use of gefitinib as a second-line treatment in oesophageal 
cancer in unselected patients does not improve overall survival, but has 
palliative benefits in a subgroup of these difficult-to-treat patients with 
short life expectancy. Future research should focus on identification of 
predictive biomarkers to identify this subgroup of benefiting patients.
FUNDING: Cancer Research UK.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70024-5
PMID: 24950987 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Oncologist. 2014 Aug;19(8):880-5. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2013-0469. Epub
 2014 Jun 20.

Measuring the population impact of introducing stereotactic ablative 
radiotherapy for stage I non-small cell lung cancer in Canada.

Louie AV(1), Rodrigues GB(2), Palma DA(2), Senan S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands; Department of Radiation Oncology, London Regional Cancer 
Program, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of 
Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA Dr.alexlouie@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, VU University Medical Center, Amsterdam, 
The Netherlands; Department of Radiation Oncology, London Regional Cancer 
Program, University of Western Ontario, London, Ontario, Canada; Department of 
Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Harvard University, Boston, 
Massachusetts, USA.

BACKGROUND: The Cancer Risk Management Model (CRMM) was used to estimate the 
health and economic impact of introducing stereotactic ablative radiotherapy 
(SABR) for stage I non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) in Canada.
METHODS: The CRMM uses Monte Carlo microsimulation representative of all 
Canadians. Lung cancer outputs were previously validated internally (Statistics 
Canada) and externally (Canadian Cancer Registry). We updated costs using the 
Ontario schedule of fees and benefits or the consumer price index to calculate 
2013 Canadian dollars, discounted at a 3% rate. The reference model assumed that 
for stage I NSCLC, 75% of patients undergo surgery (lobectomy, sublobar 
resection, or pneumonectomy), 12.5% undergo radiotherapy (RT), and 12.5% undergo 
best supportive care (BSC). SABR was introduced in 2008 as an alternative to 
sublobar resection, RT, and BSC at rates reflective of the literature. 
Incremental cost effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated; a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000 (all amounts are in Canadian dollars) 
per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) was used from the health care payer 
perspective.
RESULTS: The total cost for 25,085 new cases of lung cancer in 2013 was 
calculated to be $608,002,599. Mean upfront costs for the 4,318 stage I cases 
were $7,646.98 for RT, $8,815.55 for SABR, $12,161.17 for sublobar resection, 
$16,266.12 for lobectomy, $22,940.59 for pneumonectomy, and $14,582.87 for BSC. 
SABR dominated (higher QALY, lower cost) RT, sublobar resection, and BSC. RT had 
lower initial costs than SABR that were offset by subsequent costs associated 
with recurrence. Lobectomy was cost effective when compared with SABR, with an 
ICER of $55,909.06.
CONCLUSION: The use of SABR for NSCLC in Canada is projected to result in 
significant cost savings and survival gains.

©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2013-0469
PMCID: PMC4122471
PMID: 24951606 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of potential conflicts of interest 
may be found at the end of this article.

