505. HIV AIDS (Auckl). 2014 Jun 2;6:99-107. doi: 10.2147/HIV.S62121. eCollection 
2014.

Physiotherapy intervention as a complementary treatment for people living with 
HIV/AIDS.

Pullen SD(1), Chigbo NN(2), Nwigwe EC(2), Chukwuka CJ(3), Amah CC(4), Idu SC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, Division of Physical Therapy, Emory 
University, Atlanta, GA, USA.
(2)Department of Physiotherapy, University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, 
Nigeria.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, 
Nigeria.
(4)Paediatric Surgery Division, Department of Surgery, College of Medicine, 
University of Nigeria Teaching Hospital, Enugu, Nigeria.

BACKGROUND: The advent of highly active antiretroviral therapy has dramatically 
extended the life expectancy of people living with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV)/acquired immunodeficiency syndrome. Despite this increased longevity, HIV 
disease and its pharmacological treatment can cause long-term and acute health 
complications, many of which can be treated successfully by physiotherapy. The 
purpose of this paper is to report the effect of a 12-week rehabilitation 
program on several health-related markers in a 43-year-old woman living with 
HIV.
METHODS: This case study examined the effect of a 12-week exercise and manual 
therapy intervention on morphology, pain, cardiopulmonary fitness, strength, 
neurological balance, immune markers (CD4 cell count), and quality of life in a 
43-year-old woman living with HIV.
RESULTS: The results showed complete elimination of pain and shortness of breath 
on exertion. There was also a reduction in resting heart rate, waist 
circumference, exercise duration, muscle strength, and endurance. The patient 
showed an increase in peak expiratory flow rate, maximal heart rate attained, 
upper arm, forearm, and thigh circumference, and CD4+ cell count. The patient 
also showed improvements in the quality of life domains of general health, pain, 
energy/fatigue, social and physical functioning, and emotional well-being.
CONCLUSION: Physiotherapy interventions consisting of exercise and manual 
therapy appear beneficial in several areas as an adjunct therapy in HIV 
management.

DOI: 10.2147/HIV.S62121
PMCID: PMC4047833
PMID: 24936132


506. Cad Saude Publica. 2014 May;30(5):1093-102. doi: 10.1590/0102-311x00113813.

Average years of life lost due to breast and cervical cancer and the association 
with the marginalization index in Mexico in 2000 and 2010.

Cervantes CA(1), Botero MA(2).

Author information:
(1)Facultad Latinoamericana de Ciencias Sociales, Ciudad de México, México.
(2)Instituto Nacional de Geriatría, Ciudad de México, México.

The objective of this study was to calculate average years of life lost due to 
breast and cervical cancer in Mexico in 2000 and 2010. Data on mortality in 
women aged between 20 and 84 years was obtained from the National Institute for 
Statistics and Geography. Age-specific mortality rates and average years of life 
lost, which is an estimate of the number of years that a person would have lived 
if he or she had not died prematurely, were estimated for both diseases. Data 
was disaggregated into five-year age groups and socioeconomic status based on 
the 2010 marginalization index obtained from the National Population Council. A 
decrease in average years of life lost due to cervical cancer (37.4%) and an 
increase in average years of life lost due breast cancer (8.9%) was observed 
during the period studied. Average years of life lost due to cervical cancer was 
greater among women living in areas with a high marginalization index, while 
average years of life lost due to breast cancer was greater in women from areas 
with a low marginalization index.

DOI: 10.1590/0102-311x00113813
PMID: 24936824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


507. OMICS. 2014 Aug;18(8):499-512. doi: 10.1089/omi.2013.0159. Epub 2014 Jun 17.

Neglected tropical diseases and omics science: proteogenomics analysis of the 
promastigote stage of Leishmania major parasite.

Pawar H(1), Renuse S, Khobragade SN, Chavan S, Sathe G, Kumar P, Mahale KN, Gore 
K, Kulkarni A, Dixit T, Raju R, Prasad TS, Harsha HC, Patole MS, Pandey A.

Author information:
(1)1 Institute of Bioinformatics , International Technology Park, Bangalore, 
India .

Among the neglected tropical diseases, leishmaniasis is one of the most 
devastating, resulting in significant mortality and contributing to nearly 2 
million disability-adjusted life years. Cutaneous leishmaniasis is a 
debilitating disorder caused by the kinetoplastid protozoan parasite Leishmania 
major, which results in disfiguration and scars. L. major genome was the first 
to be sequenced within the genus Leishmania. Use of proteomic data for 
annotating genomes is a complementary approach to conventional genome annotation 
approaches and is referred to as proteogenomics. We have used a 
proteogenomics-based approach to map the proteome of L. major and also annotate 
its genome. In this study, we searched L. major promastigote proteomic data 
against the annotated L. major protein database. Additionally, we searched the 
proteomic data against six-frame translated L. major genome. In all, we 
identified 3613 proteins in L. major promastigotes, which covered 43% of its 
proteome. We also identified 26 genome search-specific peptides, which led to 
the identification of three novel genes previously not identified in L. major. 
We also corrected the annotation of N-termini of 15 genes, which resulted in 
extension of their protein products. We have validated our proteogenomics 
findings by RT-PCR and sequencing. In addition, our study resulted in 
identification of 266 N-terminally acetylated peptides in L. major, one of the 
largest acetylated peptide datasets thus far in Leishmania. This dataset should 
be a valuable resource to researchers focusing on neglected tropical diseases.

DOI: 10.1089/omi.2013.0159
PMID: 24937402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


508. MMW Fortschr Med. 2014 Feb 20;156(3):18-9.

[Not too much and not too little. How much sleep is optimal?].

[Article in German]

Stiefelhagen P.

PMID: 24938048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


509. Laryngoscope. 2015 Jan;125(1):16-24. doi: 10.1002/lary.24780. Epub 2014 Jun
17.

Cost-effectiveness of the endoscopic versus microscopic approach for pituitary 
adenoma resection.

Rudmik L(1), Starreveld YP, Vandergrift WA, Banglawala SM, Soler ZM.

Author information:
(1)Rhinology and Endoscopic Sinus Surgery, Division of Otolaryngology-Head and 
Neck Surgery, Department of Surgery, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, 
Canada.

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of an endoscopic 
versus microscopic approach to pituitary adenoma resection.
STUDY DESIGN: Markov decision tree economic evaluation.
METHODS: An economic evaluation using a Markov decision tree model was 
performed. The economic perspective was that of the healthcare third-party 
payer. Effectiveness and probability data were obtained from a single 
meta-analysis of 38 studies. Costs were obtained from the Healthcare Cost and 
Utilization Project database and wholesale pharmaceutical pricing. Multiple 
sensitivity analyses were performed including a probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis. Comparative treatment groups were: 1) endoscopic approach and 2) 
microscopic approach to pituitary adenoma resection. The primary outcome was 
cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). The time horizon was 25 years, and 
costs were discounted at a rate of 3.5%.
RESULTS: The endoscopic approach cost a total of $17,244.63 and produced a total 
of 24.30 QALYs. The microscopic approach cost a total of $23,756.60 and produced 
a total of 24.20 QALYs. In the reference case, the endoscopic approach was a 
dominant intervention (both less costly and more effective); therefore, an 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was not calculated. The sensitivity 
analysis demonstrated 79% certainty that the endoscopic approach is the 
cost-effective decision, at a willingness to pay threshold of $50,000 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: This economic evaluation suggests that the endoscopic approach is 
the more cost-effective intervention compared to the microscopic approach for 
patients requiring a pituitary adenoma resection.

© 2014 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.24780
PMID: 24938934 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Surg Endosc. 2014 Dec;28(12):3473-8. doi: 10.1007/s00464-014-3626-3. Epub
2014  Jun 18.

A population-based analysis of emergent versus elective paraesophageal hernia 
repair using the Nationwide Inpatient Sample.

Jassim H(1), Seligman JT, Frelich M, Goldblatt M, Kastenmeier A, Wallace J, Zhao 
HS, Szabo A, Gould JC.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Surgery, Department of Surgery, Medical College of 
Wisconsin, 9200 W. Wisconsin Avenue, Milwaukee, WI, 53226, USA.

BACKGROUND: As the life expectancy in the United States continues to increase, 
more elderly, sometimes frail patients present with sub-acute surgical 
conditions such as a symptomatic paraesophageal hernia (PEH). While the outcomes 
of PEH repair have improved largely due to the proliferation of laparoscopic 
surgery, there is still a defined rate of morbidity and mortality. We sought to 
characterize the outcomes of both elective and emergent PEH repair using a large 
population-based data set.
METHODS: The Nationwide Inpatient Sample was queried for primary ICD-9 codes 
associated with PEH repair (years 2006-2008). Outcomes were in-hospital 
mortality and the occurrence of a pre-identified complication. Multivariate 
analysis was performed to determine the risk factors for complications and 
mortality following both elective and emergent PEH repair.
RESULTS: A total of 8,462 records in the data, representing 41,723 patients in 
the US undergoing PEH repair in the study interval, were identified. Of these 
procedures, 74.2% was elective and 42.4% was laparoscopic. The overall 
complication and mortality rates were 20.8 and 1.1%, respectively. Emergent 
repair was associated with a higher rate of morbidity (33.4 vs. 16.5%, p < 
0.001) and mortality (3.2 vs. 0.37%, p < 0.001) than elective repair. Emergent 
repair patients were more likely to be male, were older, and more likely to be 
minority. Logistic modeling revealed that younger age, elective case status, and 
a laparoscopic approach were independently associated with a lower probability 
of complications and mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Patients undergoing emergent PEH repair in the United States tend 
to be older, more likely a racial minority, and less likely to undergo 
laparoscopic repair. Elective repair, younger age, and a laparoscopic approach 
are associated with improved outcomes. Considering all of the above, we 
recommend that patients consider elective repair with a surgeon experienced in 
the laparoscopic approach, especially when symptoms related to the hernia are 
present.

DOI: 10.1007/s00464-014-3626-3
PMCID: PMC4422062
PMID: 24939163 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2015 Dec;32(8):802-9. doi: 10.1177/1049909114540035.
 Epub 2014 Jun 16.

Understanding the views of those who care for patients with cancer on advance 
care planning and end-of-life care.

Mattes MD(1), Tung K(2), Baum R(2), Parikh K(2), Ashamalla H(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, New York Methodist Hospital, Brooklyn, NY, 
USA malcolm.mattes@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, New York Methodist Hospital, Brooklyn, NY, 
USA.

An electronic survey was used to assess the views of a diverse nationwide cohort 
of health care professionals regarding advance care planning and end-of-life 
care. A total of 645 responses were received. If diagnosed with a serious 
incurable illness with limited life expectancy, 97% would want to discuss their 
prognosis, 74% would refuse cardiopulmonary resuscitation, and 72% favored 
supportive/comfort care to more aggressive life-prolonging treatments. However, 
prognosis was thought to be discussed with only 52% of such patients, and just 
5% thought doctors were either very or extremely successful at explaining 
advanced life-sustaining treatments to patients. Greater than 90% believed these 
discussions should best occur when a patient is thought to have one or more 
years to live and 80% thought they are best initiated in the outpatient setting.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909114540035
PMID: 24939206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2014 Nov;239(11):1421-32. doi:
10.1177/1535370214538588.  Epub 2014 Jun 17.

Solving the puzzle of Parkinson's disease using induced pluripotent stem cells.

Zhao P(1), Luo Z(1), Tian W(1), Yang J(1), Ibáñez DP(1), Huang Z(1), Tortorella 
MD(2), Esteban MA(3), Fan W(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Chromatin and Human Disease, Key Laboratory of Regenerative 
Biology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Guangdong Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine, South China Institute for 
Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine 
and Health, Guangzhou 510530, China.
(2)Drug Discovery Pipeline Group, Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine and 
Health, Guangzhou 510530, China.
(3)Laboratory of Chromatin and Human Disease, Key Laboratory of Regenerative 
Biology of the Chinese Academy of Sciences and Guangdong Provincial Key 
Laboratory of Stem Cells and Regenerative Medicine, South China Institute for 
Stem Cell Biology and Regenerative Medicine, Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine 
and Health, Guangzhou 510530, China Guangdong Stem Cell and Regenerative 
Medicine Research Centre, University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong 999077, and 
Guangzhou Institutes of Biomedicine and Health, Guangzhou 510530, China 
miguel@gibh.ac.cn.

The prevalence and incidence of Parkinson's disease (PD) is increasing due to a 
prolonged life expectancy. This highlights the need for a better mechanistic 
understanding and new therapeutic approaches. However, traditional in vitro and 
in vivo experimental models to study PD are suboptimal, thus hampering the 
progress in the field. The epigenetic reprogramming of somatic cells to induced 
pluripotent stem cells (iPSCs) offers a unique way to overcome this problem, as 
these cells share many properties of embryonic stem cells (ESCs) including the 
potential to be transformed into different lineages. PD modeling with iPSCs is 
nowadays facilitated by the growing availability of high-efficiency 
neural-specific differentiation protocols and the possibility to correct or 
induce mutations as well as creating marker cell lines using designer nucleases. 
These technologies, together with steady advances in human genetics, will likely 
introduce profound changes in the way we interpret PD and develop new 
treatments. Here, we summarize the different PD iPSCs reported so far and 
discuss the challenges for disease modeling using these cell lines.

© 2014 by the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine.

DOI: 10.1177/1535370214538588
PMID: 24939824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Eur Heart J Cardiovasc Imaging. 2014 Nov;15(11):1226-30. doi: 
10.1093/ehjci/jeu110. Epub 2014 Jun 17.

Clinical significance and prevalence of valvular strands during routine echo 
examinations.

Leitman M(1), Tyomkin V(2), Peleg E(2), Shmueli R(2), Krakover R(2), Vered Z(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Assaf Harofeh Medical Center, Sackler School of 
Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Zerifin 70300, Israel marina.leitman@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Cardiology, Assaf Harofeh Medical Center, Sackler School of 
Medicine, Tel Aviv University, Zerifin 70300, Israel.

AIMS: Lambl's excrescences (valvular strands) have been associated with an 
increased embolic risk. In previous studies, valvular strands have mostly been 
detected by transoesophageal echo (TEE). The current high-resolution echo 
systems allow better detection of valvular strands often even by transthoracic 
echocardiography (TTE). We attempted to determine the incidence of valvular 
strands during routine echo exams, TTE and/or TEE, and their relation to the 
cardiovascular risk factor, co-morbidities, and outcome.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Over 21 000 echo exams were performed at our hospital 
during 2008-12 and were searched for reporting of valvular strands. One hundred 
and fifty such studies were identified and the presence of valvular strands was 
confirmed. These patients were then evaluated for clinical characteristics, 
co-morbidities, and outcome, and compared with 150 age- and gender-matched 
patients without valvular strands. Incidence of valvular strands was maximal at 
age 61-70 (0.94%), and they were found more commonly in men than in women, 92 
vs. 58, P < 0.00001. Valvular strands occurred more often on the aortic than on 
the mitral valve, 125 vs. 36, respectively, P < 0.00001, were more often 
associated with thickened or calcified aortic or mitral valve, and occupied the 
ventricular side of the aortic valve and the atrial side of the mitral valve, P 
< 0.00001. Embolic events occurred in 40 of the 150 patients with strands (27%). 
Valvular strands were not associated with increased mortality.
CONCLUSION: Valvular strands (Lambl's excrescences) appear not to affect life 
expectancy, but are often associated with embolic/cerebrovascular events, are 
more common in older patients, in men than in women, and are more commonly 
located on the aortic than on the mitral valve.

Published on behalf of the European Society of Cardiology. All rights reserved. 
© The Author 2014. For permissions please email: Journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ehjci/jeu110
PMID: 24939951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Bull World Health Organ. 2014 Jun 1;92(6):390-1. doi: 10.2471/BLT.14.010614.

Public health round-up.

[No authors listed]

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.14.010614
PMCID: PMC4047811
PMID: 24940010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Bull World Health Organ. 2014 Jun 1;92(6):396-404. doi:
10.2471/BLT.13.132480.

Relative health performance in BRICS over the past 20 years: the winners and 
losers.

Petrie D(1), Tang KK(2).

Author information:
(1)Melbourne School of Population and Global Health, University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, Australia .
(2)School of Economics, University of Queensland, St Lucia, Brisbane, QLD 4072, 
Australia .

OBJECTIVE: To determine whether the health performance of Brazil, the Russian 
Federation, India, China and South Africa--the countries known as BRICS--has 
kept in step with their economic development.
METHODS: Reductions in age- and sex-specific mortality seen in each BRICS 
country between 1990 and 2011 were measured. These results were compared with 
those of the best-performing countries in the world and the best-performing 
countries with similar income levels. We estimated each country's progress in 
reducing mortality and compared changes in that country's mortality rates 
against other countries with similar mean incomes to examine changes in 
avoidable mortality.
FINDINGS: The relative health performance of the five study countries differed 
markedly over the study period. Brazil demonstrated fairly even improvement in 
relative health performance across the different age and sex subgroups that we 
assessed. India's improvement was more modest and more varied across the 
subgroups. South Africa and the Russian Federation exhibited large declines in 
health performance as well as large sex-specific inequalities in health. 
Although China's levels of avoidable mortality decreased in absolute terms, the 
level of improvement appeared low in the context of China's economic growth.
CONCLUSION: When evaluating a country's health performance in terms of avoidable 
mortality, it is useful to compare that performance against the performance of 
other countries. Such comparison allows any country-specific improvements to be 
distinguished from general global improvements.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Déterminer si la performance en matière de santé du Brésil, 
de la Fédération de Russie, de l'Inde, de la Chine et de l'Afrique du Sud – les 
pays connus sous le nom de BRICS – est restée en phase avec leur développement 
économique.
MÉTHODES: On a mesuré les baisses de mortalité par âge et par sexe, qui ont été 
observées dans chaque pays du groupe BRICS entre 1990 et en 2011. Ces résultats 
ont été comparés à ceux des pays les plus performants dans le monde, ainsi qu'à 
ceux des pays les plus performants avec des niveaux de revenus similaires. On a 
estimé les progrès de chaque pays en matière de baisse de la mortalité, et on a 
comparé les changements dans les taux de mortalité de ces pays à ceux d'autres 
pays avec des revenus moyens similaires afin d'évaluer les changements dans la 
mortalité évitable.
RÉSULTATS: La performance relative en matière de santé dans les 5 pays étudiés a 
sensiblement différé au cours de la période de l'étude. Le Brésil a montré une 
amélioration assez régulière de la performance relative en matière de santé dans 
tous les différents sous-groupes d'âge et de sexe que nous avons évalués. 
L'amélioration de l'Inde a été plus modeste et plus variée dans tous les 
sous-groupes. L'Afrique du Sud et la Fédération de Russie ont enregistré de 
fortes baisses de performance en matière de santé, ainsi que de grandes 
inégalités en matière de santé en fonction du sexe. Bien que les niveaux de 
mortalité évitable de la Chine aient diminué en valeur absolue, le niveau 
d'amélioration semblait faible dans le contexte de la croissance économique du 
pays.
CONCLUSION: Lorsque l'on évalue la performance en matière de santé en termes de 
mortalité évitable, il est utile de comparer cette performance à la performance 
d'autres pays, afin de distinguer les améliorations spécifiques au pays par 
rapport aux améliorations mondiales générales.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Determinar si el rendimiento sanitario de Brasil, la 
Federación de Rusia, India, China y Sudáfrica, los países conocidos como BRICS, 
ha avanzado a la par que su desarrollo económico.
MÉTODOS: Se midieron las disminuciones de la mortalidad por sexo y edad 
observadas en cada uno de los países BRICS entre 1990 y 2011. Estos resultados 
se compararon con los de los países con los mejores resultados del mundo y con 
los de los mejores resultados con niveles de ingresos similares. Se calculó el 
progreso de cada país en la reducción de la mortalidad y se compararon los 
cambios en los índices de mortalidad de cada país con los de otros países con 
ingresos medios similares para estimar los cambios en la mortalidad evitable.
RESULTADOS: El rendimiento sanitario relativo de los cinco países del estudio se 
diferenció notablemente durante el período de estudio. Brasil mostró una mejora 
bastante uniforme en el rendimiento sanitario relativo en los distintos 
subgrupos por edad y sexo que se evaluaron. La mejora de India fue más modesta, 
con más variaciones entre los subgrupos. Sudáfrica y la Federación de Rusia 
mostraron grandes disminuciones en el rendimiento sanitario, así como grandes 
desigualdades sanitarias relativas al sexo. Aunque los niveles de mortalidad 
evitable de China disminuyeron en términos absolutos, el nivel de mejora resultó 
bajo en el contexto del crecimiento económico del país.
CONCLUSIÓN: Al evaluar el rendimiento sanitario de un país en términos de 
mortalidad evitable, resulta útil compararlo con el de otros países. Una 
comparación de este tipo permite distinguir las mejoras específicas de cada país 
de las mejoras globales generales.

Publisher: الغرض: تحديد ما إذا كان الأداء الصحي في البرازيل والاتحاد الروسي 
والهند والصين وجنوب أفريقيا - البلدان المعروفة بتجمع "بريك" (BRICS) - متماشياً 
مع وتيرة التنمية الاقتصادية بها.
الطريقة: تم قياس الانخفاضات في الوفيات حسب الفئات العمرية ونوع الجنس في كل بلد 
من بلدان تجمع "بريك" (BRICS) بين عامي 1990 و2011. وتم مقارنة هذه النتائج بتلك 
الخاصة بأفضل البلدان أداءً في العالم وأفضل البلدان أداءً ذات مستويات الدخل 
المماثلة. وقمنا بتقدير التقدم الذي أحرزه كل بلد في تقليل الوفيات ومقارنة 
التغيرات في معدلات الوفيات في هذا البلد مقابل البلدان الأخرى التي يتشابه فيها 
متوسط الدخل لتقدير التغيرات في الوفيات التي يمكن تفاديها.
النتائج: اختلف الأداء الصحي النسبي في بلدان الدراسة الخمسة بصورة ملحوظة على مدار 
فترة الدراسة. وأثبتت البرازيل تحسناً إلى حد ما في الأداء الصحي النسبي عبر الفئات 
الفرعية المختلفة المقسمة حسب العمر ونوع الجنس التي قمنا بتقييمها. وكان التحسن 
الذي شهدته الهند أكثر تواضعاً وأكثر تبايناً بين الفئات الفرعية. وأظهرت جنوب 
أفريقيا والاتحاد الروسي تراجعاً كبيراً في الأداء الصحي بالإضافة إلى تباينات 
كبيرة حسب نوع الجنس في القطاع الصحي. وعلى الرغم من انخفاض مستويات الوفيات التي 
يمكن تفاديها في الصين من حيث الحدود المطلقة، بدا مستوى التحسن منخفضاً في سياق 
النمو الاقتصادي للصين.
الاستنتاج: عند تقييم الأداء الصحي لأحد البلدان من حيث الوفيات التي يمكن تفاديها، 
من المفيد مقارنة ذلك الأداء بأداء البلدان الأخرى. وتسمح هذه المقارنة بتمييز أي 
تحسينات خاصة بالبلد عن التحسينات العالمية العامة.

Publisher: 目的: 确定被称为称为金砖五国（BRICS）的巴西、俄罗斯联邦、印度、中国和南非等国卫生绩效是否与其经济发展保持一致。
方法: 
衡量每个金砖国家在1990年到2011年间具体年龄和性别死亡率的减少情况。将这些结果与世界上绩效最好的国家以及同等收入水平绩效最好的国家进行比较。我们估计每个国家在降低死亡率方面的进步，并将这些国家的死亡率变化与其他同等平均收入国家进行比较，来估算可避免死亡率的变化。
结果: 
五个研究国在研究期间相对卫生绩效明显不同。在我们评估的各个年龄和性别子组中，巴西的相对卫生绩效有相当提高。印度的提高更缓和，在各子组间差异性更大。南非和俄联邦出现卫生绩效的大幅下滑，并显示出性别上明显的健康不平等。虽然中国可避免死亡率绝对水平下降，在中国经济增长的背景下改善水平仍显偏低。
结论: 在通过可避免死亡率来评估一个国家的卫生绩效时，将一国的卫生绩效和其他国家相比非常有用。这种比较可将任何具体国家的改善与一般的全球改善区别开来。

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ: Определить, соответствуют ли показатели здоровья населения 
таких стран, как Бразилия, Российская Федерация, Индия, Китай и Южная Африка 
(страны, входящие в группу БРИКС) их уровню экономического развития.
МЕТОДЫ: Были измерены темпы снижения смертности по половому и возрастному 
признакам в каждой стране БРИКС за период 1990-2011 гг. Эти результаты 
сопоставлялись с данными стран с наилучшими показателями в мире, а также стран с 
наилучшими показателями со схожим уровнем доходов. Для оценки изменений в 
показателях предотвратимой смертности был оценен прогресс каждой страны в 
снижении смертности и сопоставлены изменения в показателях смертности в данной 
стране с другими странами с аналогичным средним уровнем доходов.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Относительные показатели здоровья населения в пяти исследуемых 
странах отличались значительно в течение периода исследования. Бразилия 
продемонстрировала устойчивое улучшение относительных показателей здоровья в 
различных возрастных и половых подгруппах, включенных в исследование. Улучшение 
ситуации в Индии было более скромным, с более широким разбросом показателей по 
подгруппам. Южная Африка и Российская Федерация продемонстрировали существенное 
снижение показателей здоровья, а также большую неравномерность в состоянии 
здоровья по половому признаку. Хотя уровень предотвратимой смертности в Китае 
снизился в абсолютном выражении, темпы улучшений являются низкими, учитывая 
текущий экономический рост в Китае.
ВЫВОД: При оценке показателей здоровья населения страны с точки зрения 
предотвратимой смертности полезно сравнить эти показатели с уровнем, достигнутым 
в других странах. Такое сравнение позволяет отличить улучшения, достигнутые в 
конкретных странах, от общих глобальных улучшений.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.13.132480
PMCID: PMC4047803
PMID: 24940013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


516. Bull World Health Organ. 2014 Jun 1;92(6):405-12. doi:
10.2471/BLT.13.127977.

Socioeconomic inequalities and mortality trends in BRICS, 1990-2010.

Mújica OJ(1), Vázquez E(2), Duarte EC(3), Cortez-Escalante JJ(4), Molina J(2), 
Barbosa da Silva Junior J(4).

Author information:
(1)Pan American Health Organization, Washington, United States of America .
(2)Pan American Health Organization, Brasília, Brazil .
(3)Universidade de Brasília, Brasília, Brazil .
(4)Ministério da Saúde, Esplanada dos Ministérios, Edifício Sede, 1° Andar, Sala 
105, Brasília, DF, Brazil .

OBJECTIVE: To explore the presence and magnitude of--and change 
in--socioeconomic and health inequalities between and within Brazil, the Russian 
Federation, India, China and South Africa--the countries known as BRICS--between 
1990 and 2010.
METHODS: Comparable data on socioeconomic and health indicators, at both country 
and primary subnational levels, were obtained from publicly available sources. 
Health inequalities between and within countries were identified and summarized 
by using standard gap and gradient metrics.
FINDINGS: Four of the BRICS countries showed increases in both income level and 
income inequality between 1990 and 2010. The exception was Brazil, where income 
inequality decreased over the same period. Between-country inequalities in level 
of education and access to sanitation remained mostly unchanged but the largest 
between-country difference in mean life expectancy increased, from 9 years in 
1990 to 20 years in 2010. Throughout the study period, there was 
disproportionality in the burden of disease between BRICS. However, the national 
infant mortality rate fell substantially over the study period in all five 
countries. In Brazil and China, the magnitude of subnational income-related 
inequalities in infant mortality, both absolute and relative, also decreased 
substantially.
CONCLUSION: Despite the economic prosperity and general improvements in health 
seen since 1990, profound inequalities in health persist both within and between 
BRICS. However, the substantial reductions observed--within Brazil and China--in 
the inequalities in income-related levels of infant mortality are encouraging.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Étudier la présence et l'importance – et les variations – 
des inégalités socioéconomiques et sanitaires entre et à l'intérieur du Brésil, 
de la Fédération de Russie, de l'Inde, de la Chine et de l'Afrique du Sud – les 
pays connus sous le nom de BRICS – entre 1990 et 2010.
MÉTHODES: Des données comparables sur les indicateurs socioéconomiques et 
sanitaires, à la fois aux niveaux national et infranational primaire, ont été 
tirées de sources accessibles au public. Les inégalités sanitaires entre et à 
l'intérieur des pays ont été identifiées et synthétisées à l’aide des écarts 
types et des mesures de gradient.
RÉSULTATS: Quatre pays du groupe BRICS ont montré des augmentations à la fois du 
niveau des revenus et des inégalités des revenus entre 1990 et 2010. L'exception 
a été le Brésil, où l'inégalité des revenus a diminué sur la même période. Les 
inégalités entre les pays dans le niveau de l'éducation et l'accès aux 
installations sanitaires n'ont pratiquement pas changé, mais la différence la 
plus marquée entre les pays dans l'espérance de vie moyenne a augmenté, passant 
de 9 ans en 1990 à 20 ans en 2010. Sur toute la période de l'étude, la charge de 
morbidité était disproportionnée entre les pays du groupe BRICS. Cependant, le 
taux national de mortalité infantile a considérablement chuté pendant la période 
d'étude dans l'ensemble des 5 pays. Au Brésil et en Chine, l'importance des 
inégalités infranationales en matière de mortalité infantile, à la fois absolue 
et relative, qui sont liées aux revenus, a également considérablement diminué.
CONCLUSION: Malgré la prospérité économique et les améliorations générales en 
matière de santé observées depuis 1990, de profondes inégalités en matière de 
santé persistent à la fois entre et à l'intérieur des pays du groupe BRICS. 
Cependant, les importantes diminutions observées dans les inégalités – à 
l'intérieur du Brésil et de la Chine –en matière de taux de mortalité infantile, 
qui sont liées aux revenus, sont encourageantes.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Explorar la presencia y magnitud, así como los cambios en 
las desigualdades socioeconómicas y sanitarias entre y dentro de Brasil, la 
Federación de Rusia, India, China y Sudáfrica, los países conocidos como BRICS, 
entre 1990 y 2010.
MÉTODOS: Se analizaron fuentes accesibles al público para obtener datos 
comparables sobre los indicadores socioeconómicos y de salud tanto a nivel 
nacional como subnacional primario. Se identificaron y resumieron las 
desigualdades sanitarias entre países con ayuda de métricas de brecha estándar y 
de gradiente.
RESULTADOS: Cuatro de los países BRICS mostraron incrementos tanto a nivel de 
ingresos como de desigualdad de ingresos entre 1990 y 2010. La excepción fue 
Brasil, donde la desigualdad de ingresos se redujo en el mismo periodo. Las 
desigualdades entre los países a nivel educativo y de acceso a la sanidad 
permanecieron en su mayoría sin cambios, si bien la diferencia entre países 
relativa a la esperanza media de vida más grande aumentó de 9 años en 1990 a 20 
años en el año 2010. A lo largo del periodo de estudio se observó una 
desproporción en la carga de la enfermedad en los BRICS. Sin embargo, la tasa de 
mortalidad infantil nacional se redujo sustancialmente durante el periodo de 
estudio en los cinco países. En Brasil y China, la magnitud de las desigualdades 
relacionadas con los ingresos a nivel subnacional en la mortalidad infantil, 
tanto en términos absolutos como relativos, también se redujo sustancialmente.
CONCLUSIÓN: A pesar de la prosperidad económica y la mejora general de la salud 
que se observa desde 1990, aún persisten desigualdades muy importantes en 
materia de salud tanto dentro, como entre los países BRICS. Sin embargo, las 
reducciones sustanciales de las desigualdades a nivel de ingresos de la 
mortalidad infantil observadas en Brasil y China son alentadoras.

Publisher: الغرض: استكشاف وجود الفوارق الاجتماعية والاقتصادية والصحية بين 
البرازيل والاتحاد الروسي والهند والصين وجنوب أفريقيا – البلدان المعروفة بتجمع 
"بريك" (BRICS) – وداخلها في الفترة من 1990 إلى 2010 وحجمها والتغير الذي طرأ 
عليها.
الطريقة: تم الحصول على بيانات قابلة للمقارنة عن المؤشرات الاجتماعية والاقتصادية 
والصحية، على الصعيدين القطري ودون الوطني الأساسي من المصادر المتاحة للعامة. وتم 
تحديد الفوارق الصحية بين البلدان وداخلها وتم تلخيصها عن طريق استخدام الثغرة 
المعيارية والقياسات المتدرجة.
النتائج: أظهرت أربعة من بلدان تجمع "بريك" زيادات في كل من مستوى الدخل والتفاوت 
في الدخل بين عامي 1990 و2010. وكان الاستثناء من تلك البلدان البرازيل، حيث انخفض 
التفاوت في الدخل على مدار الفترة ذاتها. وظلت الفوارق بين البلدان في مستوى 
التعليم والوصول إلى خدمات الإصحاح في الغالب دون تغيير، ولكن أكبر اختلاف بين 
البلدان في متوسط العمر المأمول زاد من 9 سنوات في عام 1990 إلى 20 سنة في عام 
2010. وكان هناك، طوال فترة الدراسة، عدم تناسب في عبء المرض بين بلدان تجمع 
"بريك". ومع ذلك، انخفض معدل وفيات الرضع على الصعيد الوطني بشكل كبير على مدار 
فترة الدراسة في جميع البلدان الخمس. وفي البرازيل والصين، انخفض أيضاً حجم الفوارق 
ذات الصلة بالدخل على الصعيد دون الوطني في معدل وفيات الرضع، المطلق والنسبي على 
حد سواء، بشكل كبير.
الاستنتاج: على الرغم من الرخاء الاقتصادي والتحسينات العامة في الصحة التي لوحظت 
منذ عام 1990، ما زالت هناك فوارق عميقة في الصحة داخل بلدان تجمع "بريك" وفيما 
بينها. إلا أن الانخفاضات الكبيرة التي لوحظت - في البرازيل والصين - في الفوارق في 
مستويات وفيات الرضع ذات الصلة بالدخل مشجعة في هذا الصدد.

Publisher: 目的: 探讨 1990 年至 2010 
年巴西、俄罗斯联邦、印度、中国和南非（又称BRICS）等金砖国家之间和内部的社会经济和卫生不均衡的存在和量级以及变化。
方法: 从公开来源获取国家和主要地方级别上社会经济和健康指标方面的可比数据。使用标准差距和梯度指标识别和总结国家之间和内部的卫生不均衡情况。
结果: 金砖五国中有四国在 1990 和 2010 
年之间收入水平和收入不均衡情况都有所加剧。只有巴西例外，在同一时期收入不均衡情况减缓。国家之间教育水平和医疗环境可获得性不均衡情况基本上保持不变，但是国家之间平均预期寿命最大差别增加，从 
1990 年的 9 年提高到 2010 年的 20 
年。在整个研究期间，金砖五国之间的疾病负担比例失调。但是，在研究期间所有五个国家的全国婴儿死亡率显著降低。在巴西和中国，婴儿死亡率的地方级收入相关不均衡的量级（绝对和相对）也显著降低。
结论: 尽管 1990 
年以来经济繁荣发展，医疗条件普遍改善，BRICS国家内部和之间依然存在深刻的卫生不均衡状况。然而，在巴西和中国，在收入相关婴儿死亡率水平方面观察到不均衡性显著降低的情况令人振奋。

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ: Исследовать наличие, размеры и изменения в 
социально-экономическом неравенстве и неравенстве в оказании услуг 
здравоохранения в Бразилии, Российской Федерации, Индии, Китае и Южной Африке 
(странах БРИКС), как внутри стран, так и между ними, за период 1990-2010 гг.
МЕТОДЫ: Сопоставимые данные по показателям социально-экономического развития и 
здоровья как на уровне стран, так и на первичных субнациональных уровнях, были 
получены из открытых источников. Неравенство в оказании услуг здравоохранения 
между странами и внутри стран определялось и обобщалось с использованием 
стандартных методик определения социального неравенства и градиента.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: В четырех странах БРИКС наблюдалось увеличение как уровня, так и 
неравенства доходов в период с 1990-го по 2010-й годы. Исключение составила 
Бразилия, где неравенство в доходах снизилось за тот же период. Неравенство 
между странами в уровне образования и доступа к средствам санитарии в основном 
осталось неизменным, но наибольшая разница в средней продолжительности жизни 
между странами увеличилась с 9 лет в 1990 году до 20 лет в 2010 году. На 
протяжении всего периода исследования между странами БРИКС наблюдалась 
диспропорция в бремени заболеваний. Тем не менее, национальный уровень 
младенческой смертности существенно снизился за период исследования во всех пяти 
странах. В Бразилии и Китае субнациональные уровни младенческой смертности, 
связанные с неравенством в доходах, также существенно снизились как в 
абсолютных, так и относительных показателях.
ВЫВОД: Несмотря на экономическое процветание и общее улучшение здоровья 
населения, наблюдаемые с 1990 года, внутри и между странами БРИКС сохраняется 
глубокое неравенство в оказании услуг здравоохранения. Тем не менее, наблюдаемое 
в Бразилии и Китае значительное сокращение младенческой смертности, связанное с 
неравенством в уровне доходов, является обнадеживающим.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.13.127977
PMCID: PMC4047800
PMID: 24940014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Curr Oncol. 2014 Jun;21(3):e493-503. doi: 10.3747/co.21.1769.

Use of dexamethasone in patients with high-grade glioma: a clinical practice 
guideline.

Kostaras X(1), Cusano F(2), Kline GA(3), Roa W(4), Easaw J(5).

Author information:
(1)Guideline Utilization Resource Unit, Alberta Health Services, CancerControl 
Alberta, Calgary, AB.
(2)Department of Pharmacy, Tom Baker Cancer Centre, Calgary, AB.
(3)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Calgary, Calgary, AB.
(4)Department of Oncology, Cross Cancer Institute, Edmonton' AB.
(5)Department of Oncology, Tom Baker Cancer Centre, Calgary, AB.

BACKGROUND: Dexamethasone is the corticosteroid most commonly used for the 
management of vasogenic edema and increased intracranial pressure in patients 
with brain tumours. It is also used after surgery (before embarking on 
radiotherapy), particularly in patients whose tumours exert significant mass 
effect. Few prospective clinical trials have set out to determine the optimal 
dose and schedule for dexamethasone in patients with primary brain tumours, and 
subsequently, fewer clinical practice guideline recommendations have been 
formulated.
METHODS: A review of the scientific literature published to November 2012 
considered all publications that addressed dexamethasone use in adult patients 
with brain tumours. Evidence was selected and reviewed by a working group 
comprising 3 clinicians and 1 methodologist. The resulting draft guideline 
underwent internal review by members of the Alberta Provincial cns Tumour Team, 
and feedback was incorporated into the final version of the guideline.
RECOMMENDATIONS: Based on the evidence available to date, the Alberta Provincial 
cns Tumour Team makes these recommendations: Treatment with dexamethasone is 
recommended for symptom relief in adult patients with primary high-grade glioma 
and cerebral edema.After surgery, a maximum dose of 16 mg daily, administered in 
4 equal doses, is recommended for symptomatic patients. This protocol should 
ideally be started by the neurosurgeon.A rapid dexamethasone tapering schedule 
should be considered where appropriate.Patients who have high-grade tumours, are 
symptomatic, or have poor life expectancy, can be maintained on a 0.5-1.0 mg 
dose of dexamethasone daily.Side effects with dexamethasone are common, and they 
increase in frequency and severity with increased dose and duration of therapy. 
Patients should be carefully monitored for endocrine, muscular, skeletal, 
gastrointestinal, psychiatric, and hematologic complications, and for infections 
and other general side effects.

DOI: 10.3747/co.21.1769
PMCID: PMC4059813
PMID: 24940109


518. Int J Psychiatry Clin Pract. 1999;3(2):105-13. doi:
10.3109/13651509909024770.

Patient satisfaction and acceptability of long-term treatment with quetiapine.

Hellewell JS(1), Kalali AH, Langham SJ, McKellar J, Awad AG.

Author information:
(1)Trafford General Hospital, Manchester, M, 41 5SL, UK.

Satisfaction with, and subjective tolerability of, antipsychotic medication have 
emerged as important factors in determining treatment compliance and eventual 
outcome in the management of psychotic disorders. The acceptability of long-term 
treatment with quetiapine, an atypical antipsychotic agent with a lower 
incidence of extrapyramidal effects than standard therapy, was examined in this 
open-label, multicentre study of patient satisfaction. One hundred and 
twenty-nine patients with major psychiatric disorders, who had each been 
receiving quetiapine for at least 6 months in open-label extension studies, were 
asked to complete a 7-item questionnaire concerning subjective experience and 
satisfaction with treatment. Over 75% of respondents indicated that they were 
either "very" or "extremely" satisfied with their antipsychotic medication while 
73.7% indicated that, over the last month, they regarded their antipsychotic 
medication to have been "very" or "extremely" helpful. Subjectively reported 
side-effects were uncommon, with 74.4% of patients reporting no side-effects, 
23.3% mild side-effects and only 2.3% moderate side-effects. There were no 
unambiguous reports of extrapyramidal symptoms. An overwhelming majority of 
patients (114/118; 96.6%) reported that they preferred quetiapine to previous 
antipsychotic medications, the predominant reasons being their perceptions of 
better tolerability and greater efficacy. Patients also identified improvements 
in quality of life and their activities of daily living. These positive 
evaluations appeared to be reflected in the high proportion of respondents who 
indicated a readiness to continue quetiapine treatment. This study indicates 
that the combination of efficacy and a favourable tolerability profile shown by 
quetiapine may result in benefits that are evident to the patient and may be 
reflected in high levels of patient satisfaction and acceptance of treatment. By 
improving compliance with treatment, these benefits may also enhance clinical 
outcome.

DOI: 10.3109/13651509909024770
PMID: 24941092


519. G Ital Nefrol. 2013 Sep-Oct;30(5):gin/30.5.12.

[The value of the utility of estimating QALYs: an open question].

[Article in Italian]

Mennini FS.

PMID: 24941480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Free Radic Biol Med. 2014 Aug;73:366-82. doi: 
10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.05.015. Epub 2014 Jun 2.

Caloric restriction and the aging process: a critique.

Sohal RS(1), Forster MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacology and Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, CA 90089, USA. Electronic address: 
sohal@usc.edu.
(2)Department of Pharmacology and Neuroscience, University of North Texas Health 
Science Center, Fort Worth, TX 76107, USA.

The main objective of this review is to provide an appraisal of the current 
status of the relationship between energy intake and the life span of animals. 
The concept that a reduction in food intake, or caloric restriction (CR), 
retards the aging process, delays the age-associated decline in physiological 
fitness, and extends the life span of organisms of diverse phylogenetic groups 
is one of the leading paradigms in gerontology. However, emerging evidence 
disputes some of the primary tenets of this conception. One disparity is that 
the CR-related increase in longevity is not universal and may not even be shared 
among different strains of the same species. A further misgiving is that the 
control animals, fed ad libitum (AL), become overweight and prone to early onset 
of diseases and death, and thus may not be the ideal control animals for studies 
concerned with comparisons of longevity. Reexamination of body weight and 
longevity data from a study involving over 60,000 mice and rats, conducted by a 
National Institute on Aging-sponsored project, suggests that CR-related increase 
in life span of specific genotypes is directly related to the gain in body 
weight under the AL feeding regimen. Additionally, CR in mammals and "dietary 
restriction" in organisms such as Drosophila are dissimilar phenomena, albeit 
they are often presented to be the very same. The latter involves a reduction in 
yeast rather than caloric intake, which is inconsistent with the notion of a 
common, conserved mechanism of CR action in different species. Although specific 
mechanisms by which CR affects longevity are not well understood, existing 
evidence supports the view that CR increases the life span of those particular 
genotypes that develop energy imbalance owing to AL feeding. In such groups, CR 
lowers body temperature, rate of metabolism, and oxidant production and retards 
the age-related pro-oxidizing shift in the redox state.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.freeradbiomed.2014.05.015
PMCID: PMC4111977
PMID: 24941891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. BMC Infect Dis. 2014 Jun 17;14:334. doi: 10.1186/1471-2334-14-334.

Cost effectiveness of a pentavalent rotavirus vaccine in Oman.

Al Awaidy ST(1), Gebremeskel BG, Al Obeidani I, Al Baqlani S, Haddadin W, 
O'Brien MA.

Author information:
(1)Office of HE of Health Affairs, Ministry of Health, Muscat, Oman. 
Salah.awaidy@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Rotavirus gastroenteritis (RGE) is the leading cause of diarrhea in 
young children in Oman, incurring substantial healthcare and economic burden. We 
propose to formally assess the potential cost effectiveness of implementing 
universal vaccination with a pentavalent rotavirus vaccine (RV5) on reducing the 
health care burden and costs associated with rotavirus gastroenteritis (RGE) in 
Oman
METHODS: A Markov model was used to compare two birth cohorts, including 
children who were administered the RV5 vaccination versus those who were not, in 
a hypothetical group of 65,500 children followed for their first 5 years of life 
in Oman. The efficacy of the vaccine in reducing RGE-related hospitalizations, 
emergency department (ED) and office visits, and days of parental work loss for 
children receiving the vaccine was based on the results of the Rotavirus 
Efficacy and Safety Trial (REST). The outcome of interest was cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained from health care system and societal 
perspectives.
RESULTS: A universal RV5 vaccination program is projected to reduce, 
hospitalizations, ED visits, outpatient visits and parental work days lost due 
to rotavirus infections by 89%, 80%, 67% and 74%, respectively. In the absence 
of RV5 vaccination, RGE-related societal costs are projected to be 2,023,038 
Omani Rial (OMR) (5,259,899 United States dollars [USD]), including 1,338,977 
OMR (3,481,340 USD) in direct medical costs. However, with the introduction of 
RV5, direct medical costs are projected to be 216,646 OMR (563,280 USD). Costs 
per QALY saved would be 1,140 OMR (2,964 USD) from the health care payer 
perspective. An RV5 vaccination program would be considered cost saving, from 
the societal perspective.
CONCLUSIONS: Universal RV5 vaccination in Oman is likely to significantly reduce 
the health care burden and costs associated with rotavirus gastroenteritis and 
may be cost-effective from the payer perspective and cost saving from the 
societal perspective.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2334-14-334
PMCID: PMC4078940
PMID: 24941946 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Acta Paediatr. 2014 Oct;103(10):1057-65. doi: 10.1111/apa.12718. Epub 2014
Jul  6.

Consciousness without cortex: a hydranencephaly family survey.

Aleman B(1), Merker B.

Author information:
(1)Hydranencephaly Information Network, Maple Ridge, BC, Canada.

AIM: Hydranencephaly is commonly taken to exemplify the developmental vegetative 
state, based largely on the assumption that radical loss of cortical tissue is 
incompatible with consciousness. The aim of the study reported here was to 
survey primary caregivers of children born with hydranencephaly for behavioural 
evidence indirectly informative about the conscious status of these children.
METHODS: The survey recruited 108 primary caregivers through a parent support 
group and was conducted online via a commercial survey hosting facility. As part 
of a more extensive questionnaire, participants answered 106 questions bearing 
on the environmental responsiveness, emotional reactivity, mood and agency of 
the child in their care.
RESULTS: The survey elicited a many-facetted and detailed set of caregiver 
answers and written observations regarding the child's behaviour. A conservative 
measure of agreement among respondents' answers yielded a generic portrait of 
the responsiveness and expressive behaviour of a hydranencephaly child.
CONCLUSION: The generic behavioural characteristics of hydranencephaly thus 
assessed are incompatible on multiple counts with the unconsciousness 
characteristic of the vegetative state. This bears on what is included under the 
concept of quality of life for children with hydranencephaly, and hence on 
appropriate forms of treatment and care in their case.

©2014 Foundation Acta Paediatrica. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apa.12718
PMID: 24942496 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Lancet. 2014 Sep 20;384(9948):1118-27. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60418-9.
Epub  2014 Jun 16.

Efficacy and cost of video-assisted thoracoscopic partial pleurectomy versus 
talc pleurodesis in patients with malignant pleural mesothelioma (MesoVATS): an 
open-label, randomised, controlled trial.

Rintoul RC(1), Ritchie AJ(2), Edwards JG(3), Waller DA(4), Coonar AS(5), Bennett 
M(6), Lovato E(7), Hughes V(1), Fox-Rushby JA(7), Sharples LD(8); MesoVATS 
Collaborators.

Collaborators: Beckett P, Lang-Lazdunski L, Reddy R, Powrie D, Lim E, 
Martin-Ucar A, Morgan I, Chaudhuri N, Qureshi N, Tasker A, Munday H, Matthews C, 
Buttery R, Slade M, Slade G, Rassl D, Lowry E, Elliott J, Laroche C, Winter R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, UK.
(2)Essex Cardiothoracic Centre, Basildon, UK.
(3)Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Northern General Hospital, Sheffield, 
UK.
(4)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Glenfield Hospital, Leicester, UK.
(5)Department of Thoracic Surgery, Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, UK.
(6)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, UK.
(7)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK.
(8)Department of Thoracic Oncology, Papworth Hospital, Cambridge, UK; MRC 
Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, UK; Clinical Trials Research Unit, University of 
Leeds, Leeds, UK. Electronic address: l.sharples@leeds.ac.uk.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2014 Sep 20;384(9948):1080-1.

BACKGROUND: Malignant pleural mesothelioma incidence continues to rise, with few 
available evidence-based therapeutic options. Results of previous non-randomised 
studies suggested that video-assisted thoracoscopic partial pleurectomy (VAT-PP) 
might improve symptom control and survival. We aimed to compare efficacy in 
terms of overall survival, and cost, of VAT-PP and talc pleurodesis in patients 
with malignant pleural mesothelioma.
METHODS: We undertook an open-label, parallel-group, randomised, controlled 
trial in patients aged 18 years or older with any subtype of confirmed or 
suspected mesothelioma with pleural effusion, recruited from 12 hospitals in the 
UK. Eligible patients were randomly assigned (1:1) to either VAT-PP or talc 
pleurodesis by computer-generated random numbers, stratified by European 
Organisation for Research and Treatment of Cancer risk category (high vs low). 
The primary outcome was overall survival at 1 year, analysed by intention to 
treat (all patients randomly assigned to a treatment group with a final 
diagnosis of mesothelioma). This trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, 
number NCT00821860.
FINDINGS: Between Oct 24, 2003, and Jan 24, 2012, we randomly assigned 196 
patients, of whom 175 (88 assigned to talc pleurodesis, 87 assigned to VAT-PP) 
had confirmed mesothelioma. Overall survival at 1 year was 52% (95% CI 41-62) in 
the VAT-PP group and 57% (46-66) in the talc pleurodesis group (hazard ratio 
1·04 [95% CI 0·76-1·42]; p=0·81). Surgical complications were significantly more 
common after VAT-PP than after talc pleurodesis, occurring in 24 (31%) of 78 
patients who completed VAT-PP versus ten (14%) of 73 patients who completed talc 
pleurodesis (p=0·019), as were respiratory complications (19 [24%] vs 11 [15%]; 
p=0·22) and air-leak beyond 10 days (five [6%] vs one [1%]; p=0·21), although 
not significantly so. Median hospital stay was longer at 7 days (IQR 5-11) in 
patients who received VAT-PP compared with 3 days (2-5) for those who received 
talc pleurodesis (p<0·0001).
INTERPRETATION: VAT-PP is not recommended to improve overall survival in 
patients with pleural effusion due to malignant pleural mesothelioma, and talc 
pleurodesis might be preferable considering the fewer complications and shorter 
hospital stay associated with this treatment.
FUNDING: BUPA Foundation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60418-9
PMID: 24942631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. BMC Health Serv Res. 2014 Jun 19;14:267. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-267.

Health service barriers to HIV testing and counseling among pregnant women 
attending Antenatal Clinic; a cross-sectional study.

Kwapong GD, Boateng D(1), Agyei-Baffour P, Addy EA.

Author information:
(1)Department of community Health, Kwame Nkrumah University of Science and 
Technology, Kumasi, Ghana. kingdannie@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: HIV testing and counseling (HTC) remains critical in the global 
efforts to reach a goal of universal access to prevention and timely human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV) treatment and health care. Routine HIV testing has 
been shown to be cost-effective and life-saving by prolonging the life 
expectancy of HIV patients and reducing the annual HIV transmission rate. 
However, these benefits of routine HIV testing may not be seen among pregnant 
women attending antenatal clinic (ANC) due to health facility related factors. 
This paper presents the influence of health facility related factors on HTC to 
inform HTC implementation.
METHODS: The study was cross-sectional in design and used structured 
questionnaire and interview guides to gather information from 300 pregnant women 
aged 18 to 49 years and had attended ANC for more than twice at the time of the 
study. Twelve health workers were interviewed as key informants. Respondents 
were selected from the five sub metro health facilities in the Kumasi Metropolis 
through systematic random sampling from August to November 2011. Pregnant women 
who had not tested after two or more ANC visits were classified as not utilizing 
HTC. Data was analyzed with STATA 11. Logistic regression was run to assess the 
odds ratios at 95% confidence level.
RESULTS: Twenty-four percent of the pregnant women had not undergone HTC, with 
"never been told" emerging as the most cited reason as reported by 29.5% of 
respondents. Decisions by pregnant women to take up HTC were mostly influenced 
by factors such as lack of information, perceptions of privacy and 
confidentiality, waiting time, poor relationship with health staff and fear of 
being positive.
CONCLUSIONS: Access to HTC health facility alone does not translate into 
utilization of HTC service. Improving health facility related factors such as 
health education and information, confidentiality, health staff turnaround time 
and health staff-client relationship related to HTC will improve implementation.

