

251. Trop Anim Health Prod. 2014 Oct;46(7):1127-33. doi:
10.1007/s11250-014-0616-3.  Epub 2014 May 22.

Alterations in oxidant/antioxidant balance, high-mobility group box 1 protein 
and acute phase response in cross-bred suckling piglets suffering from rotaviral 
enteritis.

Kumar De U(1), Mukherjee R, Nandi S, Patel BH, Dimri U, Ravishankar C, Verma AK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medicine, Indian Veterinary Research Institute, Izzatnagar, 
243122, Uttar Pradesh, India, ujjwalde@gmail.com.

Rotaviral enteritis has emerged as a major cause of morbidity and mortality in 
piglets during their post-natal life. The present study was carried out to 
examine high-mobility group box 1 (HMGB1) protein, acute phase response and 
oxidative stress indices in the serum of suckling piglets suffering from 
enteritis with or without association of porcine group A rotavirus infection. 
The present investigation utilized 23 clinical cases with signs of acute 
enteritis and 12 more healthy piglets of a similar age group as control animals. 
Out of 23 enteritis cases, 12 cases were found to be positive for porcine group 
A rotavirus infection as confirmed by reverse transcription-polymerase chain 
reaction (RT-PCR) using specific primers for group A rotavirus, and the rest 
were found negative. The acute enteritis cases in piglets were associated with 
an elevated level of HMGB1 protein and serum haptoglobin and ceruloplasmin 
suggestive of an acute phase response. Among the oxidative stress indices, the 
concentrations of malondialdehyde (MDA) and nitric oxide (NO) in serum were 
significantly increased. A pronounced drop of total antioxidant capacity and the 
activity of antioxidant enzymes such as catalase and superoxide dismutase in the 
serum of piglets suffering from acute enteritis compared to healthy ones were 
also noticed. The alterations in HMGB1 protein, acute phase response and 
oxidative stress indices were more pronounced in cases with the involvement of 
porcine rotavirus as compared to rotavirus-negative cases. It is concluded that 
HMGB1 protein, markers of oxidative stress and acute phase proteins might play 
an important role in the aetiopathogenesis of porcine diarrhoea caused by 
rotavirus and might be true markers in diagnosing the conditions leading to the 
extension of the prompt and effective therapeutic care.

DOI: 10.1007/s11250-014-0616-3
PMID: 24848720 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Adv Ther. 2014 May;31(5):512-38. doi: 10.1007/s12325-014-0122-z. Epub 2014
May  22.

Bronchoscopic management of malignant airway obstruction.

Mitchell PD(1), Kennedy MP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Cork University Hospital, Wilton, Cork, 
Republic of Ireland.

Approximately one-third of patients with lung cancer will develop airway 
obstruction and many cancers lead to airway obstruction through meta stases. The 
treatment of malignant airway obstruction is often a multimodality approach and 
is usually performed for palliation of symptoms in advanced lung cancer. Removal 
of airway obstruction is associated with improvement in symptoms, quality of 
life, and lung function. Patient selection should exclude patients with short 
life expectancy, limited symptoms, and an inability to visualize beyond the 
obstruction. This review outlines both the immediate and delayed bronchoscopic 
effect options for the removal of airway obstruction and preservation of airway 
patency with endobronchial stenting.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-014-0122-z
PMID: 24849167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Jul;32(7):617-26. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0159-5.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of interventions for tuberculosis control: DALYs 
versus QALYs.

Diel R(1), Lampenius N.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Epidemiology, University Medical Hospital Schleswig-Holstein, 
Niemannsweg 11, 24015, Kiel, Germany, roland.diel@epi.uni-kiel.de.

The emergence of multi-drug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) in the European 
region and the high costs (nearly <euro>536 million) generated by the nearly 
72,000 notified TB cases in the EU are the factors driving the need for 
development and implementation of new tools against TB. In this context, 
cost-effectiveness analyses applying quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) or 
disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) as outcome measures for economic 
evaluation of improved approaches to TB control are increasingly important. 
While the methodology applied to derive the effectiveness data is commonly 
reported, less information is given regarding the derivation of utility weights 
in the calculation of QALYs for TB treatment. To date, despite the particular 
complexities of the disease, TB health effects have not been fully measured and 
there is no agreement on how disutility of TB disease should be accounted for. 
Consequently, disutility values in published studies vary considerably, and 
often appear to lack empirical evidence. As the need for a solid heath-economics 
rationale for investment in new tools against TB grows, adequate and 
comprehensive methods for assessing the impairments caused by different types of 
TB must be developed. Focusing on the assessment of DALYs as a measure of 
outcome in economic evaluation, we have built an exemplary model calculation 
applying the original TB data for Germany as reported to the Robert Koch 
Institute. Our work demonstrates that the use of standard equations provided in 
the scientific literature probably results in an underestimation of lost DALYs 
compared with probabilistic techniques. Providing distributions around 
epidemiological averages, coupled with Monte Carlo simulation to address 
uncertainty, may result in more realistic values. In line with a previous 
recommendation by the World Health Organization, it appears worthwhile to 
consider this more intricate approach to providing healthcare resource 
allocation decisions, particularly for TB.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0159-5
PMID: 24849396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Aug;32(8):801-13. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0171-9.

A cost-effectiveness study of intravenous immunoglobulin in childhood idiopathic 
thrombocytopenia purpura patients with life-threatening bleeding.

Sruamsiri R(1), Dilokthornsakul P, Pratoomsoot C, Chaiyakunapruk N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pharmacy Practice, Faculty of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Center 
of Pharmaceutical Outcomes Research, Naresuan University, Phitsanulok, Thailand.

BACKGROUND: Although the international guideline recommends intravenous 
immunoglobulin (IVIG) as the first-line treatment for childhood idiopathic 
thrombocytopenia purpura (ITP) with life-threatening bleeding, ITP patients may 
not be able to access IVIG because of the limitation in health benefit packages 
especially in developing countries. There remains an important policy question 
as to whether IVIG used as a first-line treatment is worth the money spent. 
Thus, the objective of this study was to perform a cost-effectiveness analysis 
of adding IVIG to the standard treatment of platelet transfusion and 
corticosteroids, for the treatment of childhood ITP with life-threatening 
bleeding in the context of Thailand.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis using a hybrid model consisting of a 
decision tree and Markov models was conducted with a societal perspective. The 
effectiveness and utility parameters were determined by systematic reviews, 
while costs and mortality parameters were determined using a retrospective 
electronic hospital database analysis. All costs were presented in 2012 US$. The 
discount rate of 3 % was applied for both costs and outcomes. One-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were also performed.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was $3,172 per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained ($/QALY) for the addition of IVIG versus 
standard treatment alone. The probability of response to corticosteroids was the 
most influential parameter on ICER. According to the willingness-to-pay of 
Thailand, of approximately $3,861/QALY, the probability of IVIG being cost 
effective was 33 %.
CONCLUSIONS: The addition of IVIG to standard treatment in the treatment of 
childhood ITP with life-threatening bleeding is possibly a cost-effective 
intervention in Thailand. However, our findings were highly sensitive. Policy 
makers may consider our findings as part of the information for their decision 
making.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0171-9
PMID: 24849397 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Curr Med Res Opin. 2014 Sep;30(9):1833-47. doi:
10.1185/03007995.2014.925865.  Epub 2014 Jun 9.

Improving outcomes in patients with adrenal insufficiency: a review of current 
and future treatments.

Johannsson G(1), Skrtic S, Lennern√§s H, Quinkler M, Stewart PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Endocrinology, Institute of Medicine, Sahlgrenska Academy, 
University of Gothenburg , Gothenburg , Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: Adrenal insufficiency is a rare but life-threatening disease. 
Conventional therapy consists of glucocorticoid replacement using hydrocortisone 
administered two or three times daily. Although such therapy extends life 
expectancy, mortality is not normalized, and quality of life remains poor. This 
failure to restore normal health is thought to be due to the inability of 
conventional glucocorticoid replacement therapy to normalize total cortisol 
exposure and to respond to the increased need for glucocorticoids during illness 
and stress. Also, current management regimens do not restore or replicate the 
intrinsic circadian rhythm of cortisol secretion.
AREAS COVERED: This narrative review was based on a PubMed and Medline search of 
all English-language articles on the safety and efficacy of glucocorticoid 
replacement therapy in patients with adrenal insufficiency. Based on this search 
we discuss current treatment strategies in terms of the failure to maintain or 
normalize metabolism and quality of life in patients with adrenal insufficiency. 
The rationale for, and technology behind, the development of modified-release 
preparations of hydrocortisone are described, together with the evidence 
suggesting that hydrocortisone preparations that mimic the physiological 
circadian pattern of cortisol release are more effective than conventional 
glucocorticoid replacement therapies.
CONCLUSIONS: Modified-release hydrocortisone treatments for patients with 
adrenal insufficiency more closely mimic the physiological circadian pattern of 
cortisol secretion than conventional twice or thrice daily treatment. The 
available evidence suggests that these modified-release preparations should 
improve metabolic outcomes and quality of life.

DOI: 10.1185/03007995.2014.925865
PMID: 24849526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. Int Clin Psychopharmacol. 2014 Nov;29(6):322-31. doi: 
10.1097/YIC.0000000000000038.

Long-term safety and efficacy of olanzapine long-acting injection in patients 
with schizophrenia or schizoaffective disorder: a 6-year, multinational, 
single-arm, open-label study.

McDonnell DP(1), Landry J, Detke HC.

Author information:
(1)Lilly Research Laboratories, Eli Lilly and Company, Lilly Corporate Center, 
Indianapolis, Indiana, USA.

The objective of this study was to assess the long-term safety and efficacy of 
olanzapine long-acting injection (LAI). A 6-year, single-arm, open-label 
extension study of olanzapine LAI was conducted at 127 sites in 25 countries. 
Patients were 18-76 years of age, were diagnosed with schizophrenia or 
schizoaffective disorder (N=931), and had been previously enrolled in one of 
three clinical trials of olanzapine LAI. Patients received flexibly dosed 
(45-405 mg) olanzapine LAI every 2-4 weeks. The mean duration of exposure was ‚àº3 
years. A total of 393 (42.2%) patients completed the study. The mean weight 
change was +2.1 kg (P<0.001), with 40.6% of patients experiencing 7% or higher 
weight gain. Treatment-emergent categorical changes occurred in fasting glucose, 
total cholesterol, and triglyceride levels. Pharmacokinetic analyses revealed no 
systemic accumulation of olanzapine after long-term treatment. There were 36 
occurrences of post-injection delirium/sedation syndrome, all resolving within 
72 h. The mean Positive and Negative Syndrome Scale total and subscale scores 
did not change significantly over the course of the study, indicating clinical 
stability. Olanzapine LAI appeared effective as a long-term maintenance 
treatment, with a safety profile generally consistent with the known profile of 
oral olanzapine, except for injection-related events (including post-injection 
delirium/sedation syndrome).

DOI: 10.1097/YIC.0000000000000038
PMCID: PMC4186735
PMID: 24850228 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Virol. 2014 Aug;88(15):8696-705. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01228-14. Epub 2014 May
21.

Enhancement of interferon induction by ORF3 product of hepatitis E virus.

Nan Y(1), Ma Z(1), Wang R(1), Yu Y(1), Kannan H(1), Fredericksen B(2), Zhang 
YJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Virology Laboratory, Virginia-Maryland Regional College of 
Veterinary Medicine and Maryland Pathogen Research Institute, University of 
Maryland, College Park, Maryland.
(2)Department of Cell Biology & Molecular Genetics, Maryland Pathogen Research 
Institute, University of Maryland, College Park, Maryland.
(3)Molecular Virology Laboratory, Virginia-Maryland Regional College of 
Veterinary Medicine and Maryland Pathogen Research Institute, University of 
Maryland, College Park, Maryland zhangyj@umd.edu.

Hepatitis E virus (HEV) causes both the endemic and epidemic spread of acute 
hepatitis in many parts of the world. HEV open reading frame 3 (ORF3) encodes a 
13-kDa multifunctional protein (vp13) that is essential for HEV infection of 
animals. The exact role of vp13 in HEV infection remains unclear. In this study, 
vp13 was found to enhance interferon (IFN) production induced by poly(I ¬∑ C), a 
synthetic analog of double-stranded RNA. Poly(I ¬∑ C) treatment induced a higher 
level of IFN-Œ≤ mRNA in HeLa cells stably expressing vp13 than in control cells. 
Using a luciferase reporter construct driven by the IFN-Œ≤ promoter, we 
demonstrated that vp13 enhanced retinoic acid-inducible gene I (RIG-I)-dependent 
luciferase expression. This enhancement was found to be due to both an increased 
level of RIG-I protein and its activation. The levels of both endogenous and 
exogenous RIG-I were increased by vp13 by extension of the half-life of RIG-I. 
Additionally, vp13 interacts with the RIG-I N-terminal domain and enhances its 
K63-linked ubiquitination, which is essential for RIG-I activation. Analysis of 
vp13 deletion constructs suggested that the C-terminal domain of vp13 was 
essential for the enhancement of RIG-I signaling. In HEV-infected hepatoma 
cells, wild-type HEV led to a higher level of RIG-I and more poly(I ¬∑ C)-induced 
IFN-Œ≤ expression than did ORF3-null mutants. Analysis of vp13 from four HEV 
genotypes showed that vp13 from genotype I and III strains boosted RIG-I 
signaling, while vp13 from genotype II and IV strains had a minimal effect. 
These results indicate that vp13 enhances RIG-I signaling, which may play a role 
in HEV invasion.
IMPORTANCE: Hepatitis E virus (HEV) is a significant pathogen causing hepatitis 
in many parts of the world, yet it is understudied compared with other viral 
hepatitis pathogens. Here we found that the HEV open reading frame 3 product, 
vp13, enhances interferon induction stimulated by a synthetic analog of 
double-stranded RNA. This enhancement may play a role in HEV invasion, as vp13 
is essential for HEV infection in vivo. The results of this study provide 
insights into virus-cell interactions during HEV infection. In addition to 
revealing its possible roles in HEV interference with cellular signaling, these 
results suggest that the second half of the vp13 sequence can be ligated into 
the genomes of attenuated live viruses to induce an innate immune response for 
better protective immunity, as well as a marker for differentiation of 
vaccinated animals from those infected with the corresponding wild-type viruses.

Copyright ¬© 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01228-14
PMCID: PMC4135948
PMID: 24850742 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. Coll Antropol. 2014 Mar;38(1):1-9.

Determinant factors of life expectancy at birth in the European union countries.

Bilas V, Franc S, Bosnjak M.

The main aim of this article is to explore determinants of life expectancy at 
birth among 28 European Union countries. Selected variables namely, gross 
domestic product (GDP) growth rate, population growth rate, level of education 
attained, education enrolment, GDP per capita and life expectancy have been 
considered for abovementioned countries in the period from 2001 to 2011 on a 
yearly basis by applying panel data analyses approach. Obtained results reveal 
that GDP per capita and attained education level together explain between 72.6% 
and 82.6% of differences in life expectancy at birth (depending on year of 
observation).

PMID: 24851591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Immigr Minor Health. 2015 Aug;17(4):1130-7. doi:
10.1007/s10903-014-0043-6.

Widening Life Expectancy Advantage of Hispanics in the United States: 1990-2010.

Fenelon A(1), Blue L.

Author information:
(1)Population Studies and Training Center, Brown University, 68 Waterman Street, 
Providence, RI, 02912, USA, andrew_fenelon@brown.edu.

We examine trends in the Hispanic longevity advantage between 1990 and 2010, 
focusing on the contribution of cigarette smoking. We calculate life expectancy 
at age 50 for Hispanics and non-Hispanic whites between 1990 and 2010. We use an 
indirect method to calculate the contribution of smoking to changes over time in 
life expectancy. Among women, the Hispanic advantage in life expectancy grows 
from 2.14¬†years in 1990 (95¬†% CI 1.99-2.30¬†years) to 3.53¬†years in 2010 
(3.42-3.64¬†years). More than 40¬†% of this increase reflects widening differences 
in smoking-attributable mortality. The advantage for Hispanic men increases from 
2.27¬†years (2.14-2.41¬†years) to 2.91¬†years (2.81-3.01¬†years), although smoking 
makes only a small contribution. Despite persistent disadvantage, US Hispanics 
have increased their longevity advantage over non-Hispanic whites since 1990, 
much of which reflects the continuing importance of cigarette smoking to the 
Hispanic advantage.

DOI: 10.1007/s10903-014-0043-6
PMCID: PMC4409572
PMID: 24851822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. Curr Aging Sci. 2014;7(1):25-31. doi: 10.2174/1874609807666140521110554.

The pursuit of longevity - the bringer of peace to the middle East.

Stambler I(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Science, Technology and Society, Bar Ilan University, Ramat Gan 
52900, Israel. ilia.stambler@gmail.com.

Despite the common apprehensions regarding the aging population, this work aims 
to argue, on both deontological and utilitarian moral grounds, that any increase 
in general life-expectancy will be beneficial for the Middle East, countering 
the common fears associated with this increase. A set of ethical arguments 
concerning increasing longevity is presented, from both the deontological and 
utilitarian perspective. A wide selection of economic, psychological, 
demographic and epidemiological literature and databases is analyzed to 
determine common correlates of extended longevity. On the deontological grounds, 
the value of extended longevity is derived from the value of life preservation, 
regardless of its term. On the utilitarian grounds, the value of extended 
longevity is demonstrated by its correlation with further human values, such as 
education level and intellectual activity, economic prosperity, equality, 
solidarity and peacefulness. With the common apprehensions of stagnation and 
scarcity due to life extension found wanting, the pursuit of longevity by the 
population can be seen as a cross-cultural and cross-generational good. Though 
the current study mainly refers to sources and data relevant to the Middle East, 
a similar pro-longevity argument can be also made for other cultural contexts. 
In view of its numerous benefits, normatively, the goal of longevity should be 
set clearly and openly by the society, and actively pursued, or at least 
discussed, in academia, the political system and broader public.

DOI: 10.2174/1874609807666140521110554
PMID: 24852012 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Curr Aging Sci. 2014;7(1):17-24. doi: 10.2174/1874609807666140521101610.

Human evolution, life history theory, and the end of biological reproduction.

Last C(1).

Author information:
(1)Global Brain Institute (GBI), Brussels, Belgium. cadell.last@gmail.com.

Throughout primate history there have been three major life history transitions 
towards increasingly delayed sexual maturation and biological reproduction, as 
well as towards extended life expectancy. Monkeys reproduce later and live 
longer than do prosimians, apes reproduce later and live longer than do monkeys, 
and humans reproduce later and live longer than do apes. These life history 
transitions are connected to increased encephalization. During the last life 
history transition from apes to humans, increased encephalization co-evolved 
with increased dependence on cultural knowledge for energy acquisition. This led 
to a dramatic pressure for more energy investment in growth over current 
biological reproduction. Since the industrial revolution socioeconomic 
development has led to even more energy being devoted to growth over current 
biological reproduction. I propose that this is the beginning of an ongoing 
fourth major primate life history transition towards completely delayed 
biological reproduction and an extension of the evolved human life expectancy. I 
argue that the only fundamental difference between this primate life history 
transition and previous life history transitions is that this transition is 
being driven solely by cultural evolution, which may suggest some deeper 
evolutionary transition away from biological evolution is already in the process 
of occurring.

DOI: 10.2174/1874609807666140521101610
PMID: 24852016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Curr Aging Sci. 2014;7(1):60-75. doi: 10.2174/1874609807666140521095925.

Cybernetic principles of aging and rejuvenation: the buffering- challenging 
strategy for life extension.

Heylighen F(1).

Author information:
(1)Evolution, Complexity and Cognition group, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, 
Brussels, Belgium. fheyligh@vub.ac.be.

Aging is analyzed as the spontaneous loss of adaptivity and increase in 
fragility that characterizes dynamic systems. Cybernetics defines the general 
regulatory mechanisms that a system can use to prevent or repair the damage 
produced by disturbances. According to the law of requisite variety, 
disturbances can be held in check by maximizing buffering capacity, range of 
compensatory actions, and knowledge about which action to apply to which 
disturbance. This suggests a general strategy for rejuvenating the organism by 
increasing its capabilities of adaptation. Buffering can be optimized by 
providing sufficient rest together with plenty of nutrients: amino acids, 
antioxidants, methyl donors, vitamins, minerals, etc. Knowledge and the range of 
action can be extended by subjecting the organism to an as large as possible 
variety of challenges. These challenges are ideally brief so as not to deplete 
resources and produce irreversible damage. However, they should be sufficiently 
intense and unpredictable to induce an overshoot in the mobilization of 
resources for damage repair, and to stimulate the organism to build stronger 
capabilities for tackling future challenges. This allows them to override the 
trade-offs and limitations that evolution has built into the organism's repair 
processes in order to conserve potentially scarce resources. Such acute, 
"hormetic" stressors strengthen the organism in part via the "order from noise" 
mechanism that destroys dysfunctional structures by subjecting them to strong, 
random variations. They include heat and cold, physical exertion, exposure, 
stretching, vibration, fasting, food toxins, micro-organisms, environmental 
enrichment and psychological challenges. The proposed buffering-challenging 
strategy may be able to extend life indefinitely, by forcing a periodic 
rebuilding and extension of capabilities, while using the Internet as an endless 
source of new knowledge about how to deal with disturbances.

DOI: 10.2174/1874609807666140521095925
PMID: 24852018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. PLoS One. 2014 May 22;9(5):e96447. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096447. 
eCollection 2014.

Modeling age-specific mortality for countries with generalized HIV epidemics.

Sharrow DJ(1), Clark SJ(2), Raftery AE(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
United States of America.
(2)Department of Sociology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
United States of America; Institute of Behavioral Science (IBS), University of 
Colorado at Boulder, Boulder, Colorado, United States of America; MRC/Wits Rural 
Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit (Agincourt), School of Public 
Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg, South Africa; ALPHA Network, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, United Kingdom; INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana.
(3)Department of Statistics, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
United States of America; Department of Sociology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: In a given population the age pattern of mortality is an important 
determinant of total number of deaths, age structure, and through effects on age 
structure, the number of births and thereby growth. Good mortality models exist 
for most populations except those experiencing generalized HIV epidemics and 
some developing country populations. The large number of deaths concentrated at 
very young and adult ages in HIV-affected populations produce a unique 'humped' 
age pattern of mortality that is not reproduced by any existing mortality 
models. Both burden of disease reporting and population projection methods 
require age-specific mortality rates to estimate numbers of deaths and produce 
plausible age structures. For countries with generalized HIV epidemics these 
estimates should take into account the future trajectory of HIV prevalence and 
its effects on age-specific mortality. In this paper we present a parsimonious 
model of age-specific mortality for countries with generalized HIV/AIDS 
epidemics.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: The model represents a vector of age-specific mortality 
rates as the weighted sum of three independent age-varying components. We derive 
the age-varying components from a Singular Value Decomposition of the matrix of 
age-specific mortality rate schedules. The weights are modeled as a function of 
HIV prevalence and one of three possible sets of inputs: life expectancy at 
birth, a measure of child mortality, or child mortality with a measure of adult 
mortality. We calibrate the model with 320 five-year life tables for each sex 
from the World Population Prospects 2010 revision that come from the 40 
countries of the world that have and are experiencing a generalized HIV 
epidemic. Cross validation shows that the model is able to outperform several 
existing model life table systems.
CONCLUSIONS: We present a flexible, parsimonious model of age-specific mortality 
for countries with generalized HIV epidemics. Combined with the outputs of 
existing epidemiological and demographic models, this model makes it possible to 
project future age-specific mortality profiles and number of deaths for 
countries with generalized HIV epidemics.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0096447
PMCID: PMC4031074
PMID: 24853081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


264. Br J Cancer. 2014 Jul 8;111(1):195-202. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2014.217. Epub 2014
May  22.

The impact of life tables adjusted for smoking on the socio-economic difference 
in net survival for laryngeal and lung cancer.

Ellis L(1), Coleman MP(1), Rachet B(1).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Research UK Cancer Survival Group, London School of Hygiene and 
Tropical Medicine, Keppel Street, London WC1E 7HT, UK.

BACKGROUND: Net survival is a key measure in cancer control, but estimates for 
cancers that are strongly associated with smoking may be biased. General 
population life tables represent background mortality in net survival, but may 
not adequately reflect the higher mortality experienced by smokers.
METHODS: Life tables adjusted for smoking were developed, and their impact on 
net survival and inequalities in net survival for laryngeal and lung cancers was 
examined.
RESULTS: The 5-year net survival estimated with smoking-adjusted life tables was 
consistently higher than the survival estimated with unadjusted life tables: 7% 
higher for laryngeal cancer and 1.5% higher for lung cancer. The impact of using 
smoking-adjusted life tables was more pronounced in affluent patients; the 
deprivation gap in 5-year net survival for laryngeal cancer widened by 3%, from 
11% to 14%.
CONCLUSIONS: Using smoking-adjusted life tables to estimate net survival has 
only a small impact on the deprivation gap in survival, even when inequalities 
are substantial. Adjusting for the higher, smoking-related background mortality 
did increase the estimates of net survival for all deprivation groups, and may 
be more important when measuring the public health impact of differences or 
changes in survival, such as avoidable deaths or crude probabilities of death.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2014.217
PMCID: PMC4090723
PMID: 24853177 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. Int J Clin Pract. 2014 Nov;68(11):1364-75. doi: 10.1111/ijcp.12468. Epub
2014  May 23.

Patient preference with respect to QoL and reduction in opioid-induced 
constipation (OIC) after treatment with prolonged-release (PR) 
oxycodone/naloxone compared with previous analgesic therapy [PREFER study].

van Dongen VC(1), Vanelderen PJ, Koopmans-Klein G, van Megen YJ, Van Zundert J, 
Huygen FJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology and Pain Medicine, Orbis Medisch Centrum, 
Sittard-Geleen, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to assess patient preference in terms of 
quality of life (QoL), analgesia and bowel function for patients with moderate 
to severe chronic non-malignant pain, when treated with oxycodone PR/naloxone PR 
compared with the previous WHO-step I and/or WHO-step II analgesic treatment .
STUDY DESIGN: This was a 3-week open-label phase 3b study conducted in Belgium 
and the Netherlands, after 3¬†weeks patients could enter an extension phase. 
Patient preference with respect to QoL for oxycodone PR/naloxone PR treatment 
compared with previous WHO-step I and/or WHO-step II analgesics was assessed. A 
patient was considered a responder with respect to QoL if this assessment was 
'better' or 'much better' compared with previous WHO-step I or II analgesics at 
any time point.
RESULTS: Response rate with respect to QoL was 59.2% (95% CI: 51.7-66.8%) for 
the Full Analysis (FA)-population, for the Per Protocol-population response rate 
was 71.7% (95% CI: 63.1-80.3%). Explorative analysis showed that response rate 
with respect to QoL was highest in constipated patients pretreated with WHO-step 
II analgesics (73.8%). Mean¬†¬±¬†SD pain score in the FA-population at start was 
74.7¬†¬±¬†16.6 decreasing to 53.9¬†¬±¬†24.3 after a median (range) treatment period of 
173.5 (31-771) days. For constipated subjects the significant reduction in 
constipation [improvement of the Bowel Function Index (BFI)], was -24.8 points 
(95% CI: -17.1 to -32.5). BFI for non-constipated subjects remained well below 
28.8. Adverse events with oxycodone PR/naloxone PR treatment were well-known 
opioid-related adverse events.
CONCLUSION: This study shows that the studied patients previously treated with 
WHO-step I and/or WHO-step II analgesics prefer treatment with oxycodone 
PR/naloxone PR with respect to QoL. Moreover, the study shows that treatment 
with oxycodone PR/naloxone PR significantly reduces OIC in constipated patients 
and that non-constipated patients do not develop OIC during treatment with 
oxycodone PR/naloxone PR.

¬© 2014 The Authors International Journal of Clinical Practice Published by John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ijcp.12468
PMID: 24853258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. Palliat Med. 2014 Sep;28(8):1046-52. doi: 10.1177/0269216314536089. Epub
2014  May 22.

Can we predict which hospitalised patients are in their last year of life? A 
prospective cross-sectional study of the Gold Standards Framework Prognostic 
Indicator Guidance as a screening tool in the acute hospital setting.

O'Callaghan A(1), Laking G(2), Frey R(3), Robinson J(4), Gott M(3).

Author information:
(1)Palliative Care, Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand Faculty of 
Medical and Health Sciences, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand 
anneo@adhb.govt.nz.
(2)Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, The University of Auckland, Auckland, 
New Zealand Oncology, Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand.
(3)Faculty of Medical and Health Sciences, The University of Auckland, Auckland, 
New Zealand.
(4)Palliative Care, Auckland City Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand Faculty of 
Medical and Health Sciences, The University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: Screening to identify hospital inpatients with a short life 
expectancy may be a way to improve care towards the end of life. The Gold 
Standards Framework Prognostic Indicator Guidance is a screening tool that has 
recently been advocated for use in the hospital setting.
AIM: To assess the clinical utility of the Gold Standards Framework Prognostic 
Indicator Guidance as a screening tool in an acute hospital setting.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Mortality at 6 and 12 months and sensitivity, specificity 
and predictive value of the Gold Standards Framework Prognostic Indicator 
Guidance at 1 year.
DESIGN, SETTING AND PARTICIPANTS: Prospective cross-sectional study of 501 adult 
inpatients in a tertiary New Zealand teaching hospital screened utilising the 
Gold Standards Framework Prognostic Indicator Guidance.
RESULTS: A total of 99 patients were identified as meeting at least one of the 
Gold Standards Framework Prognostic Indicator Guidance triggers. In this group, 
6-month mortality was 56.6% and 12-month mortality was 67.7% compared with 5.2% 
and 10%, respectively, for those not identified as meeting the criteria. The 
sensitivity and specificity of the Gold Standards Framework Prognostic Indicator 
Guidance at 1 year were 62.6% and 91.9%, respectively, with a positive 
predictive value of 67.7% and a negative predictive value of 90.0%.
CONCLUSION: The sensitivity, specificity and predictive values of the Gold 
Standards Framework Prognostic Indicator Guidance in this study are comparable 
to, or better than, results of studies identifying patients with a limited life 
expectancy in particular disease states (e.g. heart failure and renal failure). 
Screening utilising the Gold Standards Framework Prognostic Indicator Guidance 
in the acute setting could be the first step towards implementing a more 
systematic way of addressing patient need--both current unrecognised and future 
anticipated--thereby improving outcomes for this population.

¬© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0269216314536089
PMID: 24854032 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


267. Sensors (Basel). 2014 May 20;14(5):8895-925. doi: 10.3390/s140508895.

A vision-based system for intelligent monitoring: human behaviour analysis and 
privacy by context.

Chaaraoui AA(1), Padilla-L√≥pez JR(2), Ferr√°ndez-Pastor FJ(3), Nieto-Hidalgo 
M(4), Fl√≥rez-Revuelta F(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Technology, University of Alicante, P.O. Box 99, 
Alicante E-03080, Spain. alexandros@dtic.ua.es.
(2)Department of Computer Technology, University of Alicante, P.O. Box 99, 
Alicante E-03080, Spain. jpadilla@dtic.ua.es.
(3)Department of Computer Technology, University of Alicante, P.O. Box 99, 
Alicante E-03080, Spain. fjferran@dtic.ua.es.
(4)Department of Computer Technology, University of Alicante, P.O. Box 99, 
Alicante E-03080, Spain. mnieto@dtic.ua.es.
(5)Faculty of Science, Engineering and Computing, Kingston University, Penrhyn 
Road,Kingston upon Thames KT1 2EE, UK. F.Florez@kingston.ac.uk.

Due to progress and demographic change, society is facing a crucial challenge 
related to increased life expectancy and a higher number of people in situations 
of dependency. As a consequence, there exists a significant demand for support 
systems for personal autonomy. This article outlines the vision@home project, 
whose goal is to extend independent living at home for elderly and impaired 
people, providing care and safety services by means of vision-based monitoring. 
Different kinds of ambient-assisted living services are supported, from the 
detection of home accidents, to telecare services. In this contribution, the 
specification of the system is presented, and novel contributions are made 
regarding human behaviour analysis and privacy protection. By means of a 
multi-view setup of cameras, people's behaviour is recognised based on human 
action recognition. For this purpose, a weighted feature fusion scheme is 
proposed to learn from multiple views. In order to protect the right to privacy 
of the inhabitants when a remote connection occurs, a privacy-by-context method 
is proposed. The experimental results of the behaviour recognition method show 
an outstanding performance, as well as support for multi-view scenarios and 
real-time execution, which are required in order to provide the proposed 
services.

DOI: 10.3390/s140508895
PMCID: PMC4063058
PMID: 24854209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


268. Am J Nephrol. 2014;39(6):476-83. doi: 10.1159/000362846. Epub 2014 May 17.

Novel, selective vitamin D analog suppresses parathyroid hormone in uremic 
animals and postmenopausal women.

Zella JB(1), Plum LA, Plowchalk DR, Potochoiba M, Clagett-Dame M, DeLuca HF.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry, University of Wisconsin-Madison, and Deltanoid 
Pharmaceuticals, Inc.,Madison, Wisc., USA.

BACKGROUND: The use of 1Œ±-hydroxylated vitamin D therapy to control secondary 
hyperparathyroidism in renal failure patients has been a success story, 
culminating with the demonstration of increased life expectancy in patients 
treated with these compounds. However, hypercalcemic episodes have been a 
recurrent problem with these therapies and have resulted in the added use of 
calcium mimetics. Clearly there is good reason to search for improved vitamin D 
therapy. In our inventory of vitamin D compounds, 
2-methylene-19-nor-(20S)-1Œ±,25-dihydroxyvitamin D3 (2MD) surfaced as a potential 
candidate. This was based on its preferential localization in the parathyroid 
gland and a clear suppression of serum parathyroid hormone (PTH) levels without 
a change in serum calcium in a clinical trial in postmenopausal women.
METHODS: 2MD has now been tested in the rat 5/6-nephrectomy model of renal 
failure, and in postmenopausal women to determine if it can suppress serum PTH 
at doses that do not elevate serum calcium and serum phosphorus concentrations.
RESULTS: Daily oral treatment of uremic rats on 2.5 ng/bw/day of 2MD 
dramatically suppressed PTH without a change in serum calcium or serum 
phosphorus. Further, PTH was suppressed in postmenopausal women after only 3 
daily oral doses of 2MD that continued for 4 weeks with no change in serum 
calcium or serum phosphorus.
CONCLUSION: These results coupled with a pharmacokinetic half-life of ~24 h 
suggest that 2MD given either daily or at the time of dialysis may be a superior 
therapy for secondary hyperparathyroidism in chronic renal failure patients.

DOI: 10.1159/000362846
PMID: 24854296 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. Sensors (Basel). 2014 May 21;14(5):8961-83. doi: 10.3390/s140508961.

A ubiquitous and low-cost solution for movement monitoring and accident 
detection based on sensor fusion.

Felisberto F(1), Fdez-Riverola F(2), Pereira A(3).

Author information:
(1)FCT (Funda√ß√£o para a Ci√™ncia e a Tecnologia), Foundation for Science and 
Technology, Lisbon 1249-074, Portugal. fmfelisberto@uvigo.es.
(2)Higher Technical School of Computer Engineering, University of Vigo, 
Polytechnic Building, Campus Universitario As Lagoas s/n, Ourense 32004, Spain. 
riverola@uvigo.es.
(3)INOV INESC INNOVATION, Institute of New Technologies of Leiria, P-2411-901, 
Leiria, Portugal. apereira@ipleiria.pt.

The low average birth rate in developed countries and the increase in life 
expectancy have lead society to face for the first time an ageing situation. 
This situation associated with the World's economic crisis (which started in 
2008) forces the need of equating better and more efficient ways of providing 
more quality of life for the elderly. In this context, the solution presented in 
this work proposes to tackle the problem of monitoring the elderly in a way that 
is not restrictive for the life of the monitored, avoiding the need for 
premature nursing home admissions. To this end, the system uses the fusion of 
sensory data provided by a network of wireless sensors placed on the periphery 
of the user. Our approach was also designed with a low-cost deployment in mind, 
so that the target group may be as wide as possible. Regarding the detection of 
long-term problems, the tests conducted showed that the precision of the system 
in identifying and discerning body postures and body movements allows for a 
valid monitorization and rehabilitation of the user. Moreover, concerning the 
detection of accidents, while the proposed solution presented a near 100% 
precision at detecting normal falls, the detection of more complex falls (i.e., 
hampered falls) will require further study.

DOI: 10.3390/s140508961
PMCID: PMC4063039
PMID: 24854360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


270. J Vasc Surg. 2014 Oct;60(4):908-13.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jvs.2014.04.050. Epub
2014  May 20.

Limited survival in dialysis patients undergoing intact abdominal aortic 
aneurysm repair.

Yuo TH(1), Sidaoui J(1), Marone LK(1), Avgerinos ED(1), Makaroun MS(1), Chaer 
RA(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Pittsburgh, Pa.
(2)Division of Vascular Surgery, University of Pittsburgh Medical Center, 
Pittsburgh, Pa. Electronic address: chaerra@upmc.edu.

OBJECTIVE: Elective abdominal aortic aneurysm (AAA) repair in suitable 
candidates is a standard modality. The outcomes of AAA repair in patients with 
end-stage renal disease on dialysis are not well characterized, and there is 
questionable survival advantage in such patients with limited life expectancy. 
We sought to describe outcomes after AAA repair in U.S. dialysis patients.
METHODS: The United States Renal Data System was used to collect data on intact 
asymptomatic AAA repair procedures in dialysis patients in the United States 
between 2005 and 2008. Endovascular AAA repair (EVAR) and open aortic repair 
(OAR) were identified by Current Procedural Terminology codes. Primary outcomes 
were perioperative (30-day) mortality and long-term survival. Predictors of 
mortality were identified by multivariate regression models.
RESULTS: A total of 1557 patients were identified who had undergone elective AAA 
repair: 261 OAR and 1296 EVAR. The 30-day mortality was 11.3% (EVAR, 10.3%; OAR, 
16.1%; P¬†= .010), with increased age associated with increased mortality (odds 
ratio, 1.04; 95% confidence interval [CI], 1.02-1.07; P¬†= .001). Kaplan-Meier 
survival estimates were 66.5% at 1¬†year (EVAR, 66.2%; OAR, 68%) and 37.4% at 
3¬†years (EVAR, 36.8%; OAR, 40%; P¬†= .33). Median survival was 25.3¬†months after 
EVAR and 27.4¬†months after OAR. Women had a higher mortality rate at 1¬†year 
(38.7%) compared with men (32.0%) (P¬†= .015). There was no significant mortality 
difference at 1¬†year in comparing type of procedure in both men (EVAR, 31.6%; 
OAR, 34%; P¬†= .55) and women (EVAR, 39.3%; OAR, 36%; P¬†= .60). A Cox 
proportional hazards model demonstrated that male gender (hazard ratio [HR], 
0.75; 95% CI, 0.62-0.92; P¬†= .005), increased time on dialysis (HR for each year 
on dialysis, 0.79; 95% CI, 0.75-0.83; P¬†< .001), kidney transplantation history 
(HR, 0.62; 95% CI, 0.43-0.88; P¬†= .008), and diagnosis of hypertension (HR, 
0.60; 95% CI, 0.48-0.75; P¬†<¬†.001) were protective against mortality. Increased 
age (HR, 1.02; 95% CI, 1.01-1.03; P¬†< .001) and diabetes diagnosis (HR, 1.39; 
95% CI, 1.13-1.71; P¬†= .002) predicted increased mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: AAA patients on dialysis have high perioperative and 1-year 
mortality rates after EVAR or OAR, particularly diabetics, women, and the 
elderly. This raises questions about the indications for intact AAA repair in 
dialysis patients, in whom the size threshold may need to be raised. Dialysis 
patients may be best served by deferring repair of AAA until AAAs reach large 
size or become symptomatic, especially if OAR is required, given the higher 
perioperative mortality compared with EVAR.

Copyright ¬© 2014 Society for Vascular Surgery. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jvs.2014.04.050
PMID: 24854417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Science. 2014 Jun 20;344(6190):1389-92. doi: 10.1126/science.1252634. Epub
2014  May 22.

Life-span extension by a metacaspase in the yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Hill SM(1), Hao X(1), Liu B(2), Nystr√∂m T(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry and Molecular Biology (CMB), University of 
Gothenburg, Medicinaregatan 9C, S-413 90 G√∂teborg, Sweden.
(2)Department of Chemistry and Molecular Biology (CMB), University of 
Gothenburg, Medicinaregatan 9C, S-413 90 G√∂teborg, Sweden. 
thomas.nystrom@cmb.gu.se beidong.liu@cmb.gu.se.

Comment in
    Science. 2014 Jun 20;344(6190):1341-2.
    Cell Cycle. 2014;13(22):3471-2.

Single-cell species harbor ancestral structural homologs of caspase proteases, 
although the evolutionary benefit of such apoptosis-related proteins in 
unicellular organisms is unclear. Here, we found that the yeast metacaspase Mca1 
is recruited to the insoluble protein deposit (IPOD) and juxtanuclear 
quality-control compartment (JUNQ) during aging and proteostatic stress. 
Elevating MCA1 expression counteracted accumulation of unfolded proteins and 
aggregates and extended life span in a heat shock protein Hsp104 disaggregase- 
and proteasome-dependent manner. Consistent with a role in protein quality 
control, genetic interaction analysis revealed that MCA1 buffers against 
deficiencies in the Hsp40 chaperone YDJ1 in a caspase cysteine-dependent manner. 
Life-span extension and aggregate management by Mca1 was only partly dependent 
on its conserved catalytic cysteine, which suggests that Mca1 harbors both 
caspase-dependent and independent functions related to life-span control.

Copyright ¬© 2014, American Association for the Advancement of Science.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1252634
PMID: 24855027 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Gerontologist. 2014 Dec;54(6):893-900. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnu047. Epub 2014
May  22.

Aging in the Czech Republic.

Andel R(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Aging Studies, University of South Florida, Tampa. International 
Clinical Research Center, Brno, Czech Republic. randel@usf.edu.

The goal was to provide an overview of main issues relevant to aging in the 
Czech Republic. The Czech Republic is a former Eastern Bloc nation of about 10.5 
million. Older adults are overrepresented relative to those under age 15. Life 
expectancy currently hovers around 78 years (75 for men/81 for women), a number 
slightly higher than most of Eastern Europe but lower than most of Western 
Europe. Cardiovascular diseases account for about 50% of all mortality, which is 
one of the highest rates in Europe and therefore of particular concern. 
Lifestyle habits, especially high alcohol consumption, a high rate of smokers, 
and high-fat diet relative to most other European countries and the United 
States, combined with relatively low expenditures for health promotion, appear 
important in the context of high cardiovascular mortality. Long-term care is 
funded mostly by state and local governments. The country has tried to address 
issues associated with insufficient capacity and low quality in long-term care, 
a particularly prominent problem in the Czech Republic compared with other 
European countries. The recently established International Clinical Research 
Center brings new possibilities for collaborative research in the Czech 
Republic, including research specific to aging. Improving long-term care and 
establishing methodologically sound longitudinal data sets are among the most 
pressing issues, although sustaining the pension system strained by increasing 
life expectancy, low retirement age, and extensive government-sponsored benefits 
has also recently emerged as a critical issue.

¬© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnu047
PMID: 24855314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. Surgery. 2014 Jun;155(6):1081-9. doi: 10.1016/j.surg.2014.03.041.

Cost-utility analysis of repair of reducible ventral hernia.

Stey AM(1), Danzig M(1), Qiu S(1), Yin S(1), Divino CM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Hospital, New 
York, NY.
(2)Department of Surgery, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai Hospital, New 
York, NY. Electronic address: celia.divino@mountsinai.org.

BACKGROUND: Patient-reported outcomes are an important metric of the 
effectiveness of care. Ventral hernia repair is a procedure where the 
effectiveness can best be quantified using health-related quality of life. This 
study sought to quantify quality of life with respect to costs of ventral hernia 
repair.
METHODS: This observational study of patients diagnosed with a ventral hernia 
between 2004-2011 in a single center identified 3 groups of patients: (1) 
Patients diagnosed with ventral hernias managed with observation, (2) patients 
diagnosed with ventral hernias who underwent operative repair only when 
incarceration occurred, and (3) patients with ventral hernias who underwent 
herniorraphy before incarceration. The Short Form (SF)12v2 was administered to 
measure quality of life. The direct costs of care were obtained from Financial 
Services. Patients were surveyed about direct, non-health costs to obtain a 
societal perspective. A cost-utility analysis was performed.
RESULTS: The SF-12v2 was administered to 243 patients; 80 were observed, 69 
underwent repair of an incarcerated hernia, and 94 underwent repair of a 
nonincarcerated hernia. The response rates were similar among groups-59%, 55%, 
and 52%. Quality of life as measured by utility score was less at 0.68 (95% CI, 
0.65-0.71) in patients who did not undergo repair compared with those after 
repair of a nonincarcerated hernia, 0.76 (95% CI, 0.73-0.79; P < .001). The 
elective repair of a nonincarcerated hernia was cost-effective with an 
incremental cost effectiveness ratio of $8,646 per quality-adjusted life-year.
CONCLUSION: The prompt elective repair of ventral hernias is cost-effective.

Copyright ¬© 2014 Mosby, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.surg.2014.03.041
PMID: 24856128 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


274. Comput Aided Surg. 2014;19(4-6):64-70. doi: 10.3109/10929088.2014.885566.
Epub  2014 May 23.

Non-invasive quantification of lower limb mechanical alignment in flexion.

Russell D(1), Deakin A, Fogg QA, Picard F.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Biomedical and Life Sciences, University of Glasgow , Glasgow , 
and.

OBJECTIVE: Non-invasive navigation techniques have recently been developed to 
determine mechanical femorotibial alignment (MFTA) in extension. The primary aim 
of this study was to evaluate the precision and accuracy of an image-free 
navigation system with new software designed to provide multiple kinematic 
measurements of the knee. The secondary aim was to test two types of strap 
material used to attach optical trackers to the lower limb.
METHODS: Seventy-two registrations were carried out on 6 intact embalmed 
cadaveric specimens (mean age: 77.8 ¬± 12 years). A validated fabric strap, bone 
screws and novel rubber strap were used to secure the passive tracker baseplate 
for four full experiments with each knee. The MFTA angle was measured under the 
conditions of no applied stress, valgus stress, and varus stress. These 
measurements were carried out at full extension and at 30¬∞, 40¬∞, 50¬∞ and 60¬∞ of 
flexion. Intraclass correlation coefficients, repeatability coefficients, and 
limits of agreement (LOA) were used to convey precision and agreement in 
measuring MFTA with respect to each of the independent variables, i.e., degree 
of flexion, applied coronal stress, and method of tracker fixation. Based on the 
current literature, a repeatability coefficient and LOA of ‚â§ 3¬∞ were deemed 
acceptable.
RESULTS: The mean fixed flexion for the 6 specimens was 12.8¬∞ (range: 6-20¬∞). 
The mean repeatability coefficient measuring MFTA in extension with screws or 
fabric strapping of the baseplate was ‚â§ 2¬∞, compared to 2.3¬∞ using rubber 
strapping. When flexing the knee, MFTA measurements taken using screws or fabric 
straps remained precise (repeatability coefficient ‚â§ 3¬∞) throughout the tested 
range of flexion (12.8-60¬∞); however, using rubber straps, the repeatability 
coefficient was >3¬∞ beyond 50¬∞ flexion. In general, applying a varus/valgus 
stress while measuring MFTA decreased precision beyond 40¬∞ flexion. Using fabric 
strapping, excellent repeatability (coefficient ‚â§ 2¬∞) was observed until 40¬∞ 
flexion; however, beyond 50¬∞ flexion, the repeatability coefficient was >3¬∞. As 
was the case with precision, agreement between the invasive and non-invasive 
systems was satisfactory in extension and worsened with flexion. Mean limits of 
agreement between the invasive and non-invasive system using fabric strapping to 
assess MFTA were 3¬∞ (range: 2.3-3.8¬∞) with no stress applied and 3.9¬∞ (range: 
2.8-5.2¬∞) with varus and valgus stress. Using rubber strapping, the 
