PMID: 25034297 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. BMJ. 2014 Jul 16;349:g4634. doi: 10.1136/bmj.g4634.

Prophylactic mastectomy of contralateral breast only marginally improves 
survival, study shows.

Mayor S(1).

Author information:
(1)London.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.g4634
PMID: 25035184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Aug 1;89(5):989-996. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.03.040. Epub 2014 Jul 8.

Economic analyses in squamous cell carcinoma of the head and neck: a review of 
the literature from a clinical perspective.

de Souza JA(1), Santana IA(2), de Castro G Jr(2), de Lima Lopes G Jr(3), Tina 
Shih YC(4).

Author information:
(1)The University of Chicago Medicine, Chicago, Illinois. Electronic address: 
jdesouza@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu.
(2)Instituto do Câncer do Estado de São Paulo, São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Johns Hopkins Singapore International Medical Centre, Singapore.
(4)The University of Chicago Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.

The purpose of this review was to describe cost-effectiveness and cost analysis 
studies across treatment modalities for squamous cell carcinoma of the head and 
neck (SCCHN), while placing their results in context of the current clinical 
practice. We performed a literature search in PubMed for English-language 
studies addressing economic analyses of treatment modalities for SCCHN published 
from January 2000 to March 2013. We also performed an additional search for 
related studies published by the National Institute for Health and Clinical 
Excellence in the United Kingdom. Identified articles were classified into 3 
clinical approaches (organ preservation, radiation therapy modalities, and 
chemotherapy regimens) and into 2 types of economic studies (cost analysis and 
cost-effectiveness/cost-utility studies). All cost estimates were normalized to 
US dollars, year 2013 values. Our search yielded 23 articles: 13 related to 
organ preservation approaches, 5 to radiation therapy modalities, and 5 to 
chemotherapy regimens. In general, studies analyzed different questions and 
modalities, making it difficult to reach a conclusion. Even when restricted to 
comparisons of modalities within the same clinical approach, studies often 
yielded conflicting findings. The heterogeneity across economic studies of SCCHN 
should be carefully understood in light of the modeling assumptions and 
limitations of each study and placed in context with relevant settings of 
clinical practices and study perspectives. Furthermore, the scarcity of 
comparative effectiveness and quality-of-life data poses unique challenges for 
conducting economic analyses for a resource-intensive disease, such as SCCHN, 
that requires a multimodal care. Future research is needed to better understand 
how to compare the costs and cost-effectiveness of different modalities for 
SCCHN.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.03.040
PMID: 25035201 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Aug 1;89(5):1100-1105. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.04.028. Epub 2014 Jul 8.

Patterns of care among patients receiving radiation therapy for bone metastases 
at a large academic institution.

Ellsworth SG(1), Alcorn SR(2), Hales RK(1), McNutt TR(1), DeWeese TL(1), Smith 
TJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, Sidney 
Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology and Molecular Radiation Sciences, Sidney 
Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland. Electronic address: salcorn2@jhmi.edu.
(3)Department of Medical Oncology and Harry J. Duffey Family Program in 
Palliative Care, Sidney Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.

Comment in
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Dec 1;90(5):1258.
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2015 Feb 1;91(2):451-2.
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2015 Feb 1;91(2):452.
    Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2015 Feb 1;91(2):452-3.

PURPOSE: This study evaluates outcomes and patterns of care among patients 
receiving radiation therapy (RT) for bone metastases at a high-volume academic 
institution.
METHODS AND MATERIALS: Records of all patients whose final RT course was for 
bone metastases from April 2007 to July 2012 were identified from electronic 
medical records. Chart review yielded demographic and clinical data. Rates of 
complicated versus uncomplicated bone metastases were not analyzed.
RESULTS: We identified 339 patients whose final RT course was for bone 
metastases. Of these, 52.2% were male; median age was 65 years old. The most 
common primary was non-small-cell lung cancer (29%). Most patients (83%) were 
prescribed ≤10 fractions; 8% received single-fraction RT. Most patients (52%) 
had a documented goals of care (GOC) discussion with their radiation oncologist; 
hospice referral rates were higher when patients had such discussions (66% with 
vs 50% without GOC discussion, P=.004). Median life expectancy after RT was 96 
days. Median survival after RT was shorter based on inpatient as opposed to 
outpatient status at the time of consultation (35 vs 136 days, respectively, 
P<.001). Hospice referrals occurred for 56% of patients, with a median interval 
between completion of RT and hospice referral of 29 days and a median hospice 
stay of 22 days.
CONCLUSIONS: These data document excellent adherence to American Society for 
Radiation Oncolology Choosing Wisely recommendation to avoid routinely using >10 
fractions of palliative RT for bone metastasis. Nonetheless, single-fraction RT 
remains relatively uncommon. Participating in GOC discussions with a radiation 
oncologist is associated with higher rates of hospice referral. Inpatient status 
at consultation is associated with short survival.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.04.028
PMCID: PMC4332799
PMID: 25035214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. World J Orthop. 2014 Jul 18;5(3):262-71. doi: 10.5312/wjo.v5.i3.262.
eCollection  2014 Jul 18.

Scoring system for prediction of metastatic spine tumor prognosis.

Tokuhashi Y(1), Uei H(1), Oshima M(1), Ajiro Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Yasuaki Tokuhashi, Hiroshi Uei, Masashi Oshima, Department of Orthopaedic 
Surgery, Nihon University School of Medicine, Itabashi-ku, Tokyo 173-8610, 
Japan.

Assessing the prognosis before treatment for metastatic spine tumor is extremely 
important in therapy selection. Therefore, we review some prognostic scoring 
systems and their outcomes. Articles with combinations of two keywords among 
"metastatic spine tumor" and "prognosis", "score", "scoring system", 
"predicting", or "life expectancy" were searched for in PubMed. As a result, 236 
articles were extracted. Those referring to representative scoring systems about 
predicting the survival of patients with metastatic spine tumors were used. The 
significance and limits of these scoring systems, and the future perspectives 
were described. Tokuhashi score, Tomita score, Baur score, Linden score, Rades 
score, and Katagiri score were introduced. They are all scoring systems prepared 
by combining factors that affect prognosis. The primary site of cancer and 
visceral metastasis were common factors in all of these scoring systems. Other 
factors selected to influence the prognosis varied. They were useful to roughly 
predict the survival period, such as, "more than one year or not" or "more than 
six months or not". In particular, they were utilized for decision-making about 
operative indications and avoidance of excessive medical treatment. Because the 
function depended on the survival period in the patients with metastatic spine 
tumor, it was also utilized in assessing functional prognosis. However, no 
scoring system had more than 90% consistency between the predicted and actual 
survival periods. Future perspectives should adopt more oncological viewpoints 
with adjustment of the process of treatment for metastatic spine tumor.

DOI: 10.5312/wjo.v5.i3.262
PMCID: PMC4095019
PMID: 25035829


796. World J Orthop. 2014 Jul 18;5(3):304-11. doi: 10.5312/wjo.v5.i3.304.
eCollection  2014 Jul 18.

Inflammation, lipid metabolism and cardiovascular risk in rheumatoid arthritis: 
A qualitative relationship?

García-Gómez C(1), Bianchi M(1), de la Fuente D(1), Badimon L(1), Padró T(1), 
Corbella E(1), Pintó X(1).

Author information:
(1)Carmen García-Gómez, Maria Bianchi, Department of Rheumatology, Consorci 
Sanitari de Terrassa (CST), Unitat Investigació Biomèdica CST-UAB (Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona), 08227-Terrassa, Barcelona, Spain.

Life expectancy in patients with rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is reduced compared 
to the general population owing to an increase in cardiovascular diseases (CVD) 
not fully explained by traditional cardiovascular risk factors. In recent years, 
interest has been focused on the alterations in lipid metabolism in relation to 
chronic inflammation as one of the possible mechanisms involved in the 
pathogenesis of atherosclerosis of RA patients. Research regarding this issue 
has revealed quantitative alterations in lipoproteins during the acute-phase 
reaction, and has also demonstrated structural alterations in these lipoproteins 
which affect their functional abilities. Although many alterations in lipid 
metabolism have been described in this regard, these structural changes 
associated with inflammation are particularly important in high-density 
lipoproteins as they affect their cardioprotective functions. In this respect, 
excessive oxidation in low-density lipoprotein (LDL) and increased 
lipoprotein(a) with a predominance of smaller apolipoprotein(a) isoforms has 
also been reported. This article will discuss proinflammatory high-density 
lipoproteins (piHDL), oxidized LDL and lipoprotein(a). Elevated concentrations 
of these lipoproteins with marked pro-atherogenic properties have been observed 
in RA patients, which could help to explain the increased cardiovascular risk of 
these patients.

DOI: 10.5312/wjo.v5.i3.304
PMCID: PMC4095023
PMID: 25035833


797. Clin Geriatr Med. 2014 Aug;30(3):535-51. doi: 10.1016/j.cger.2014.04.005.
Epub  2014 Jun 12.

Choosing treatment for depression in older adults and evaluating response.

Arean PA(1), Niu G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, 401 
Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA. Electronic address: 
pata@lppi.ucsf.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of California, San Francisco, 401 
Parnassus Avenue, San Francisco, CA 94143, USA.

An update is provided on the current information regarding late life depression 
with regard to assessment, clinical implications, and treatment recommendations. 
Several treatments are considered evidence-based, but when deployed into field 
trials, the efficacy of these treatments falls short. It is thought that the 
lower impact in community trials is due in large part to patient, clinical, 
environmental, socio-economic, and cognitive correlates that influence treatment 
response. The aim is to assist providers in making decisions about what type of 
treatment to recommend based on a sound assessment of these clinical correlates.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cger.2014.04.005
PMID: 25037294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


798. Semin Perinatol. 2014 Aug;38(5):236-9. doi: 10.1053/j.semperi.2014.04.011.
Epub  2014 Jun 21.

Preconception considerations.

Simpson LL(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Maternal Fetal Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Columbia University Medical Center, 622 W 168th St, PH-16, New York, New York. 
Electronic address: ls731@columbia.edu.

Heart disease complicates 1-2% of pregnancies, and in preparation for pregnancy, 
these women should receive comprehensive preconception counseling. Risks to the 
mother and potential risks to the offspring secondary to the type and severity 
of maternal cardiac disease, its inheritance pattern, required medical therapy, 
and palliative or corrective procedures that may be needed must be considered. 
Life expectancy and the ability to care for a child are somber issues that must 
be addressed when serious cardiac conditions exist. Pregnancy is still 
contraindicated in women with pulmonary hypertension, severe systemic 
ventricular dysfunction, dilated aortopathy, and severe left-sided obstructive 
lesions, but advances in medical and surgical management have resulted in an 
increasing number of patients with cardiac disorders who are interested in 
pursuing pregnancy. A multidisciplinary approach can best determine whether 
acceptable outcomes can be expected and what management strategies may improve 
the prognosis for women with heart disease and their offspring.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.semperi.2014.04.011
PMID: 25037512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Osteoporos Int. 2014 Dec;25(12):2701-7. doi: 10.1007/s00198-014-2815-1. Epub
 2014 Jul 19.

Cost-effectiveness of training rural providers to identify and treat patients at 
risk for fragility fractures.

Nelson SD(1), Nelson RE, Cannon GW, Lawrence P, Battistone MJ, Grotzke M, 
Rosenblum Y, LaFleur J.

Author information:
(1)Salt Lake City Veterans Affairs Health Care System, 500 Foothill Blvd, Salt 
Lake City, UT, 84148, USA, Scott.Nelson@pharm.utah.edu.

This is a cost-effectiveness analysis of training rural providers to identify 
and treat osteoporosis. Results showed a slight cost savings, increase in life 
years, increase in treatment rates, and decrease in fracture incidence. However, 
the results were sensitive to small differences in effectiveness, being 
cost-effective in 70 % of simulations during probabilistic sensitivity analysis.
INTRODUCTION: We evaluated the cost-effectiveness of training rural providers to 
identify and treat veterans at risk for fragility fractures relative to 
referring these patients to an urban medical center for specialist care. The 
model evaluated the impact of training on patient life years, quality-adjusted 
life years (QALYs), treatment rates, fracture incidence, and costs from the 
perspective of the Department of Veterans Affairs.
METHODS: We constructed a Markov microsimulation model to compare costs and 
outcomes of a hypothetical cohort of veterans seen by rural providers. Parameter 
estimates were derived from previously published studies, and we conducted 
one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses on the parameter inputs.
RESULTS: Base-case analysis showed that training resulted in no additional costs 
and an extra 0.083 life years (0.054 QALYs). Our model projected that as a 
result of training, more patients with osteoporosis would receive treatment 
(81.3 vs. 12.2 %), and all patients would have a lower incidence of fractures 
per 1,000 patient years (hip, 1.628 vs. 1.913; clinical vertebral, 0.566 vs. 
1.037) when seen by a trained provider compared to an untrained provider. 
Results remained consistent in one-way sensitivity analysis and in probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses, training rural providers was cost-effective (less than 
$50,000/QALY) in 70 % of the simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: Training rural providers to identify and treat veterans at risk for 
fragility fractures has a potential to be cost-effective, but the results are 
sensitive to small differences in effectiveness. It appears that provider 
education alone is not enough to make a significant difference in fragility 
fracture rates among veterans.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-014-2815-1
PMID: 25037601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. Blood. 2014 Oct 16;124(16):2507-13; quiz 2615. doi: 
10.1182/blood-2014-05-579136. Epub 2014 Jul 18.

Long-term survival and blast transformation in molecularly annotated essential 
thrombocythemia, polycythemia vera, and myelofibrosis.

Tefferi A(1), Guglielmelli P(2), Larson DR(3), Finke C(1), Wassie EA(1), Pieri 
L(2), Gangat N(1), Fjerza R(2), Belachew AA(1), Lasho TL(1), Ketterling RP(4), 
Hanson CA(5), Rambaldi A(6), Finazzi G(6), Thiele J(7), Barbui T(6), Pardanani 
A(1), Vannucchi AM(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology, Department of Medicine, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, MN;
(2)Laboratorio Congiunto MMPC, Department of Experimental and Clinical Medicine, 
University of Florence, Florence, Italy;
(3)Department of Statistics and Bioinformatics.
(4)Division of Cytogenetics, Department of Laboratory Medicine, and.
(5)Division of Hematopathology, Department of Laboratory Medicine, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN;
(6)Division of Hematology and Research Foundation, Papa Giovanni XXIII Hospital, 
Bergamo, Italy; and.
(7)Institute of Pathology, University of Cologne, Cologne, Germany.

Comment in
    Blood. 2014 Oct 16;124(16):2471-2.

Janus kinase 2 (JAK2) mutations define polycythemia vera (PV). Calreticulin 
(CALR) and myeloproliferative leukemia virus oncogene (MPL) mutations are 
specific to JAK2-unmutated essential thrombocythemia (ET) and primary 
myelofibrosis (PMF). We examined the effect of these mutations on long-term 
disease outcome. One thousand five hundred eighty-one patients from the Mayo 
Clinic (n = 826) and Italy (n = 755) were studied. Fifty-eight percent of Mayo 
patients were followed until death; median survivals were 19.8 years in ET (n = 
292), 13.5 PV (n = 267; hazard ratio [HR], 1.8; 95% confidence interval [CI], 
1.4-2.2), and 5.9 PMF (n = 267; HR, 4.5; 95% CI, 3.5-5.7). The survival 
advantage of ET over PV was not affected by JAK2/CALR/MPL mutational status. 
Survival in ET was inferior to the age- and sex-matched US population (P < 
.001). In PMF (n = 428), but not in ET (n = 576), survival and blast 
transformation (BT) were significantly affected by mutational status; outcome 
was best in CALR-mutated and worst in triple-negative patients: median survival, 
16 vs 2.3 years (HR, 5.1; 95% CI, 3.2-8.0) and BT, 6.5% vs 25% (HR, 7.6; 95% CI, 
2.8-20.2), respectively. We conclude that life expectancy in morphologically 
defined ET is significantly reduced but remains superior to that of PV, 
regardless of mutational status. In PMF, JAK2/CALR/MPL mutational status is 
prognostically informative.

© 2014 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2014-05-579136
PMCID: PMC4199952
PMID: 25037629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. J Infect Public Health. 2014 Sep-Oct;7(5):420-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.jiph.2014.03.006. Epub 2014 Jul 16.

The bottom quartile for health indices in America vs Europe.

Shandera WX(1).

Author information:
(1)Baylor College of Medicine, Department of Internal Medicine, Division of 
General Medicine, 1504 Taub Loop, Houston, TX 77030, United States. Electronic 
address: shandera@bcm.edu.

The inequities in health outcomes in different parts of the developed world 
merit further analysis. An index comprising mortality and morbidity factors was 
composed for American states and European nations. Multiple factors and bottom 
quartile status were analyzed by regression methodology. The 51 American states 
(and District of Columbia) showed a "Health Index" value based on life 
expectancy at birth and morbidity determined by rates of cardiac disease and 
cancer that ranged from 63 (Mississippi and West Virginia) to 94 (Utah). The 48 
of 51 European states with assessable data showed a Health Index based on life 
expectancy at birth and quality adjusted life years that ranged from 53 (Russia) 
to 98 (San Marino). American states with the lowest quartile values were 
clustered in the American South and Appalachian areas. European states ranking 
in the bottom quartile were typically from Eastern Europe and showed a history 
of a Communism and recognized governmental corruption. Because American poor 
health rankings are the result of controllable factors (smoking, adult onset 
diabetes, obesity), Americans can improve their bottom quartile status more 
readily than Europeans whose ranking status is a function of history (Communism, 
civil conflicts) and poverty (Southeastern and Eastern nations).

Copyright © 2014 King Saud Bin Abdulaziz University for Health Sciences. 
Published by Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jiph.2014.03.006
PMID: 25037885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Clin Immunol. 2014 Oct;154(2):100-4. doi: 10.1016/j.clim.2014.07.001. Epub
2014  Jul 16.

NK and B cell deficiency in a MPS type II family with novel mutation in the IDS 
gene.

Torres LC(1), Soares DC(2), Kulikowski LD(3), Franco JF(4), Kim CA(4).

Author information:
(1)Translational Research Laboratory Prof. C. A. Hart, Instituto de Medicina 
Integral Prof. Fernando Figueira (IMIP), Recife, Brazil; Medical Investigation 
Laboratory (LIM 36), Hospital das Clínicas, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade 
de São Paulo (USP), São Paulo, Brazil. Electronic address: 
leuridan.torres@gmail.com.
(2)Translational Research Laboratory Prof. C. A. Hart, Instituto de Medicina 
Integral Prof. Fernando Figueira (IMIP), Recife, Brazil; Medical Genetics Unit, 
Hospital das Clínicas, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo (USP), 
São Paulo, Brazil.
(3)Department of Pathology, Citogenomics Laboratory (LIM 03), Universidade de 
São Paulo (USP), São Paulo, Brazil.
(4)Medical Genetics Unit, Hospital das Clínicas, Faculdade de Medicina, 
Universidade de São Paulo (USP), São Paulo, Brazil.

The mucopolysaccharidoses (MPSs) are a group of rare, inherited lysosomal 
storage disorders that are clinically characterized by abnormalities in multiple 
organ systems and reduced life expectancy. Whereas the lysosome is essential to 
the functioning of the immune system, some authors suggest that the MPS patients 
have abnormalities in the immune system similar to the patients with primary 
immunodeficiency. In this study, we evaluated 8 male MPS type II patients of the 
same family with novel mutation in the IDS gene. We found in this MPS family a 
quantitative deficiency of NK and B cells with normal values of IgG, IgM and IgA 
serum antibodies and normal response to polysaccharide antigens. Interestingly, 
abnormalities found in these patients were not observed in other MPS patients, 
suggesting that the type of mutation found in the IDS gene can be implicated in 
the immunodeficiency.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clim.2014.07.001
PMID: 25038527 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. BMC Health Serv Res. 2014 Jul 19;14:314. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-314.

Protocol for evaluation of the cost-effectiveness of ePrescribing systems and 
candidate prototype for other related health information technologies.

Lilford RJ(1), Girling AJ, Sheikh A, Coleman JJ, Chilton PJ, Burn SL, Jenkinson 
DJ, Blake L, Hemming K.

Author information:
(1)Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK. 
r.j.lilford@warwick.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: This protocol concerns the assessment of cost-effectiveness of 
hospital health information technology (HIT) in four hospitals. Two of these 
hospitals are acquiring ePrescribing systems incorporating extensive decision 
support, while the other two will implement systems incorporating more basic 
clinical algorithms. Implementation of an ePrescribing system will have diffuse 
effects over myriad clinical processes, so the protocol has to deal with a large 
amount of information collected at various 'levels' across the system.
METHODS/DESIGN: The method we propose is use of Bayesian ideas as a 
philosophical guide.Assessment of cost-effectiveness requires a number of 
parameters in order to measure incremental cost utility or benefit - the 
effectiveness of the intervention in reducing frequency of preventable adverse 
events; utilities for these adverse events; costs of HIT systems; and cost 
consequences of adverse events averted. There is no single end-point that 
adequately and unproblematically captures the effectiveness of the intervention; 
we therefore plan to observe changes in error rates and adverse events in four 
error categories (death, permanent disability, moderate disability, minimal 
effect). For each category we will elicit and pool subjective probability 
densities from experts for reductions in adverse events, resulting from 
deployment of the intervention in a hospital with extensive decision support. 
The experts will have been briefed with quantitative and qualitative data from 
the study and external data sources prior to elicitation. Following this, there 
will be a process of deliberative dialogues so that experts can "re-calibrate" 
their subjective probability estimates. The consolidated densities assembled 
from the repeat elicitation exercise will then be used to populate a health 
economic model, along with salient utilities. The credible limits from these 
densities can define thresholds for sensitivity analyses.
DISCUSSION: The protocol we present here was designed for evaluation of 
ePrescribing systems. However, the methodology we propose could be used whenever 
research cannot provide a direct and unbiased measure of comparative 
effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-314
PMCID: PMC4118257
PMID: 25038609 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Patient. 2015 Apr;8(2):155-63. doi: 10.1007/s40271-014-0077-9.

Constant-sum paired comparisons for eliciting stated preferences: a tutorial.

Skedgel C(1), Regier DA.

Author information:
(1)Maritime Strategy for Patient-Oriented Research Support Unit, Capital Health, 
Halifax, NS, Canada, chris.skedgel@cdha.nshealth.ca.

There is growing recognition of the importance of formally including public 
preferences and values in societal decision-making processes. Constant-sum 
paired comparison (CSPC), sometimes known as a 'budget pie' task, is a stated 
preference method than can be used to elicit and measure these preferences and 
values. It requires respondents to allocate resources between two alternatives, 
and the relative allocation of this resource is assumed to reflect the 
importance or priority that respondents attach to the attribute levels in each 
alternative. CSPC is useful in addressing questions over preferences for the 
distribution of resources, and allows for an explicit linkage of budget 
constraints, opportunity costs, outcomes and group characteristics. A key 
property of CSPC is the ability to allocate some resources to the less preferred 
alternative, forcing respondents to reflect on the relative value of both 
alternatives, and possibly giving it an advantage in contexts such as healthcare 
where respondents may find it ethically difficult or objectionable to make 
all-or-nothing allocations. This tutorial will outline the theory underlying 
CSPC, and will work through a detailed example of administering and interpreting 
a CSPC elicitation, including defining attributes and levels, constructing 
experimental design, task presentation, and analysis and interpretation.

DOI: 10.1007/s40271-014-0077-9
PMID: 25038741 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. J Air Waste Manag Assoc. 2014 Jun;64(6):620-60. doi: 
10.1080/10962247.2014.912692.

Public health and components of particulate matter: the changing assessment of 
black carbon.

Grahame TJ, Klemm R, Schlesinger RB.

In 2012, the WHO classified diesel emissions as carcinogenic, and its European 
branch suggested creating a public health standard for airborne black carbon 
(BC). In 2011, EU researchers found that life expectancy could be extended four 
to nine times by reducing a unit of BC, vs reducing a unit of PM2.5. Only 
recently could such determinations be made. Steady improvements in research 
methodologies now enable such judgments. In this Critical Review, we survey 
epidemiological and toxicological literature regarding carbonaceous combustion 
emissions, as research methodologies improved over time. Initially, we focus on 
studies of BC, diesel, and traffic emissions in the Western countries (where 
daily urban BC emissions are mainly from diesels). We examine effects of other 
carbonaceous emissions, e.g., residential burning of biomass and coal without 
controls, mainly in developing countries. Throughout the 1990s, air pollution 
epidemiology studies rarely included species not routinely monitored. As 
additional PM2.5. chemical species, including carbonaceous species, became more 
widely available after 1999, they were gradually included in epidemiological 
studies. Pollutant species concentrations which more accurately reflected 
subject exposure also improved models. Natural "interventions"--reductions in 
emissions concurrent with fuel changes or increased combustion efficiency; 
introduction of ventilation in highway tunnels; implementation of electronic 
toll payment systems--demonstrated health benefits of reducing specific carbon 
emissions. Toxicology studies provided plausible biological mechanisms by which 
different PM species, e.g, carbonaceous species, may cause harm, aiding 
interpretation of epidemiological studies. Our review finds that BC from various 
sources appears to be causally involved in all-cause, lung cancer and 
cardiovascular mortality, morbidity, and perhaps adverse birth and nervous 
system effects. We recommend that the US. EPA rubric for judging possible 
causality of PM25. mass concentrations, be used to assess which PM2.5. species 
are most harmful to public health.
IMPLICATIONS: Black carbon (BC) and correlated co-emissions appear causally 
related with all-cause, cardiovascular, and lung cancer mortality, and perhaps 
with adverse birth outcomes and central nervous system effects. Such findings 
are recent, since widespread monitoring for BC is also recent. Helpful 
epidemiological advances (using many health relevant PM2.5 species in models; 
using better measurements of subject exposure) have also occurred. "Natural 
intervention" studies also demonstrate harm from partly combusted carbonaceous 
emissions. Toxicology studies consistently find biological mechanisms explaining 
how such emissions can cause these adverse outcomes. A consistent mechanism for 
judging causality for different PM2.5 species is suggested.

DOI: 10.1080/10962247.2014.912692
PMID: 25039199 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. J Card Surg. 2014 Sep;29(5):600-4. doi: 10.1111/jocs.12391. Epub 2014 Jul 8.

Nonagenarians undergoing cardiac surgery.

Davis JP(1), LaPar DJ, Crosby IK, Kern JA, Lau CL, Kron IL, Ailawadi G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Virginia Health System, Charlottesville, 
Virginia.

BACKGROUND: As life expectancy continues to rise and cardiac surgical outcomes 
improve, the number of nonagenarian (age > 90 years) patients undergoing cardiac 
operations is increasing. However, little has been reported on cardiac surgical 
outcomes in this select patient population. The purpose of this study was to 
examine current cardiac surgical outcomes for nonagenarian patients and 
determine the impact of extreme age on contemporary risk calculations.
STUDY DESIGN: From 2002 to 20012, 61,303 patients underwent cardiac operations 
as reported in a statewide Society of Thoracic Surgeons (STS) Adult Cardiac 
Surgery database, including 108 nonagenarians. Patient and operative factors, 
including STS Predicted Risk of Mortality (PROM), were analyzed in order to 
compare to estimated risk measures.
RESULTS: Nonagenarian patients (median age = 92 years) had a high prevalence of 
preoperative cerebrovascular disease (23.1% [25/108]) and arrhythmia (55.6% 
[60/108]). Isolated coronary artery bypass grafting (CABG) (39.8% [43/108]) was 
the most common operation performed within this cohort, followed by aortic valve 
replacement (AVR: 35.2% [38/108], AVR + CABG 23.1% [25/108]) operations. Overall 
nonagenarian mortality was 13% [14/108] and was greatest for AVR. Among 
nonagenarians with calculated STS PROM, observed to expected (O:E) ratios for 
mortality ranged from 1.45 to 2.65 annually over the study period.
CONCLUSIONS: Nonagenarian patients represent a high-risk, elderly patient 
population with higher morbidity than predicted. Mortality is greatest following 
aortic valve operations. These results suggest that current risk calculations 
may underestimate the impact of extreme age on perioperative mortality.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/jocs.12391
PMID: 25039683 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Br J Dermatol. 2014 Dec;171(6):1443-50. doi: 10.1111/bjd.13262. Epub 2014
Nov  19.

Health-related quality of life in patients with melanoma expressed as utilities 
and disability weights.

Tromme I(1), Devleesschauwer B, Beutels P, Richez P, Leroy A, Baurain JF, 
Cornelis F, Bertrand C, Legrand N, Degueldre J, Thomas L, Legrand C, Lambert J, 
Haagsma J, Speybroeck N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, Centre du Cancer, Cliniques Universitaires St Luc, 
Université catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.

Comment in
    Br J Dermatol. 2014 Dec;171(6):1294-5.

BACKGROUND: Few studies about health-related quality of life (HRQoL) in patients 
with melanoma have expressed their results in terms of utilities or disability 
weights (DWs). Utilities are required for calculating quality-adjusted life 
years and therefore for cost-effectiveness analyses. DWs are useful to assess 
the burden of diseases through disability-adjusted life years.
OBJECTIVES: To provide utilities and DWs regarding patients with melanoma.
METHODS: The patients were classified into eight groups using four stages based 
on the 2009 American Joint Committee on Cancer stages, with each stage 
subdivided into treatment and remission phases. The EuroQoL Five Dimensions Five 
Levels (EQ-5D-5L) questionnaire was completed by the patients with melanoma to 
provide a mean utility for each group. In addition to this, the EuroQoL visual 
analogue scale (VAS) and a validated quality-of-life questionnaire dedicated to 
patients with melanoma [Functional Assessment of Cancer Therapy Melanoma 
(FACT-M)] were completed by the same patients in order to compare their results 
with the obtained utilities. DWs were obtained by calculating, for each patient, 
the difference between his/her utility and the corresponding sex- and 
age-specific population norm.
RESULTS: A total of 395 questionnaire sets were completed. Utilities and DWs 
showed significant differences between follow-up groups. Treatment groups had 
similar utilities and DWs but these results were obtained during different 
treatment durations and therefore have different weights. The VAS and the FACT-M 
were found to be less sensitive. Nevertheless, the FACT-M identified some 
problems not found by the EQ-5D-5L questionnaire.
CONCLUSIONS: The EQ-5D-5L questionnaire seems adequate to provide utilities and 
DWs in patients with melanoma. Lower HRQoL in female patients with melanoma is 
probably linked to lower HRQoL in the general population.

© 2014 British Association of Dermatologists.

DOI: 10.1111/bjd.13262
PMID: 25039853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


808. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Oct;14(5):729-40. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.940320. Epub 2014 Jul 21.

Methodological and applied concerns surrounding age-related weighting within 
health economic evaluation.

Petrou S(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Health Sciences, Warwick Clinical Trials Unit, Warwick Medical 
School, University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK.

Economic evaluations that measure the benefits of health interventions in terms 
of units of health gain inevitably require decision-makers to make judgments 
about the 'value for money' of those health gains. Decision-making bodies have 
also commonly returned to the position that a unit of health gain, such as an 
additional quality-adjusted life year, is of equal value regardless of the 
characteristics of the recipient. This paper focuses on whether and how health 
gains in economic evaluation should be differentially weighted by age of 
recipient. The paper presents a structured overview of evidence from the 
revealed preference and stated preference literature in this area. It discusses 
a number of methodological issues raised by differential weighting of health 
gains by age of recipient. These include identifying appropriate samples for the 
derivation of age-related weights, methodological issues surrounding the 
application of the quality-adjusted life year measure, the relative merits of 
alternative valuation techniques for weighting exercises, the impact of context 
and design effects on derived values and operational concerns surrounding the 
application of age-related weights within economic evaluation. The paper ends 
with pointers for potential future research in this area.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.940320
PMID: 25040009 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


809. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Nov;56(11):1034-5. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12544. Epub
2014  Jul 10.

Trends in cerebral palsy survival: are health measures really making a 
difference?

Reid SM(1).

Author information:
(1)Developmental Disability and Rehabilitation Research, Murdoch Childrens 
Research Institute, Melbourne, Vic., Australia; Department of Paediatrics, 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Vic., Australia.

Comment on
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Nov;56(11):1059-64.
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Nov;56(11):1065-71.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12544
PMID: 25040170 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Nov;56(11):1065-71. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12519. Epub
 2014 Jul 12.

Recent trends in cerebral palsy survival. Part II: individual survival 
prognosis.

Brooks JC(1), Strauss DJ, Shavelle RM, Tran LM, Rosenbloom L, Wu YW.

Author information:
(1)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, CA, USA.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2014 Nov;56(11):1034-5.

AIM: The aim of the study was to determine survival probabilities and life 
expectancies for individuals with cerebral palsy based on data collected over a 
28-year period in California.
METHOD: We identified all individuals with cerebral palsy, aged 4 years or 
older, who were clients of the California Department of Developmental Services 
between 1983 and 2010. Kaplan-Meier survival curves were constructed for 
4-year-old children, and the estimated survival probabilities were adjusted to 
reflect trends in mortality by calendar year. For persons aged 15, 30, 45, and 
60 years, separate Poisson regression models were used to estimate age-, sex-, 
and disability-specific mortality rates. These mortality rates were adjusted to 
reflect trends of improved survival, and life expectancies were obtained using 
life table methods.
RESULTS: The sample comprised 16,440, 14,609, 11,735, 7023, and 2375 persons at 
ages 4, 15, 30, 45, and 60 years, respectively. In 1983, 50% of 4-year-old 
children who did not lift their heads in the prone position and were tube fed 
lived to age 10.9 years. By 2010, the median age at death had increased to 17.1 
years. In ambulatory children the probability of survival to adulthood did not 
change by more than 1%. Life expectancies for adolescents and adults were lower 
for those with more severe limitations in motor function and feeding skills, and 
decreased with advancing age. Life expectancies for tube-fed adolescents and 
adults increased by 1 to 3 years, depending on age and pattern of disability, 
over the course of the study period.
INTERPRETATION: Over the past three decades in California there have been 
significant improvements in the survival of children with very severe 
disabilities. There have also been improvements to the life expectancy of 
tube-fed adults, though to a lesser extent than in children.

© 2014 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12519
PMID: 25041081 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


811. Addiction. 2014 Sep;109(9):1482-8. doi: 10.1111/add.12598. Epub 2014 Jul 7.

The burden of premature opioid-related mortality.

Gomes T(1), Mamdani MM, Dhalla IA, Cornish S, Paterson JM, Juurlink DN.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Clinical and Evaluative Sciences, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
Institute of Health Policy, Management and Evaluation, University of Toronto, 
Toronto, ON, Canada; Leslie Dan Faculty of Pharmacy, Toronto, ON, Canada; 
Sunnybrook Research Institute, Toronto, ON, Canada.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: The burden of premature mortality due to opioid-related 
death has not been fully characterized. We calculated temporal trends in the 
proportion of deaths attributable to opioids and estimated years of potential 
life lost (YLL) due to opioid-related mortality in Ontario, Canada.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional study.
SETTING: Ontario, Canada.
PARTICIPANTS: Individuals who died of opioid-related causes between January 1991 
and December 2010.
MEASUREMENTS: We used the Registered Persons Database and data abstracted from 
the Office of the Chief Coroner to measure annual rates of opioid-related 
mortality. The proportion of all deaths related to opioids was determined by age 
group in each of 1992, 2001 and 2010. The YLL due to opioid-related mortality 
were estimated, applying the life expectancy estimates for the Ontario 
population.
FINDINGS: We reviewed 5935 opioid-related deaths in Ontario between 1991 and 
2010. The overall rate of opioid-related mortality increased by 242% between 
1991 (12.2 per 1 000 000 Ontarians) and 2010 (41.6 per 1 000 000 Ontarians; 
P < 0.0001). Similarly, the annual YLL due to premature opioid-related death 
increased threefold, from 7006 years (1.3 years per 1000 population) in 1992 to 
21 927 years (3.3 years per 1000 population) in 2010. The proportion of deaths 
attributable to opioids increased significantly over time within each age group 
(P < 0.05). By 2010, nearly one of every eight deaths (12.1%) among individuals 
aged 25-34 years was opioid-related.
CONCLUSIONS: Rates of opioid-related deaths are increasing rapidly in Ontario, 
Canada, and are concentrated among the young, leading to a substantial burden of 
disease.

© 2014 The Authors. Addiction published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd on behalf of 
Society for the Study of Addiction.

DOI: 10.1111/add.12598
PMCID: PMC4171750
PMID: 25041316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


812. Cancer. 2014 Dec 1;120(23):3642-50. doi: 10.1002/cncr.28926. Epub 2014 Jul
17.

Variation in treatment associated with life expectancy in a population-based 
cohort of men with early-stage prostate cancer.

Daskivich TJ(1), Lai J, Dick AW, Setodji CM, Hanley JM, Litwin MS, Saigal C; 
Urologic Diseases in America Project.

Collaborators: Bavendam T, Eggers PW, Kirkali Z, Kusek J.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, David Geffen School of Medicine, University of 
California-Los Angeles, Los Angeles, California.

Comment in
    Cancer. 2014 Dec 1;120(23):3592-4.

BACKGROUND: Men with major comorbidities are at risk for overtreatment of 
prostate cancer due to uncertainty regarding their life expectancy. We sought to 
characterize life expectancy and treatment in a population-based cohort of men 
with differing ages and comorbidity burdens at diagnosis.
METHODS: We sampled 96,032 men aged ≥66 years with early-stage prostate cancer 
who had Gleason scores ≤7 and were diagnosed during 1991 to 2007 from the 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare database. We calculated 
cumulative incidence of other-cause mortality and determined treatment patterns 
among subgroups defined by age and Charlson comorbidity index scores.
RESULTS: Overall, life expectancy was <10 years (10-year other-cause mortality 
rate, >50%) for 50,049 of 96,032 men (52%). Life expectancy differed by age and 
comorbidity score and was <10 years for men ages 66 to 69 years with Charlson 
scores ≥2, for men ages 70 to 74 years with Charlson scores ≥1, and for all men 
ages 75 to 79 years and ≥80 years. Among those who had a life expectancy <10 
years, treatment was aggressive (surgery, radiation, or brachytherapy) for 68% 
of men aged 66 to 69 years, 69% of men aged 70 to 74 years, 57% of men aged 75 
to 79 years, and 24% of men aged ≥80 years. Among these men, aggressive 
treatment was predominantly radiation therapy (50%, 53%, 63%, and 69%, 
respectively) and less frequently was surgery (30%, 25%, 13%, and 9%, 
respectively). Multivariate models revealed little variation in the probability 
of aggressive treatment by comorbidity status within age subgroups despite 
substantial differences in mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: Men aged <80 years at diagnosis who have life expectancies <10 
years often receive aggressive treatment for low-risk and intermediate-risk 
prostate cancer, mostly with radiation therapy.

© 2014 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28926
PMCID: PMC4239169
PMID: 25042117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Other authors have no conflicts of interest to 
report.


813. Lancet. 2014 Jul 19;384(9939):241-8. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)60604-8.

Trends in underlying causes of death in people with HIV from 1999 to 2011 
(D:A:D): a multicohort collaboration.

Smith CJ(1), Ryom L(2), Weber R(3), Morlat P(4), Pradier C(5), Reiss P(6), 
Kowalska JD(7), de Wit S(8), Law M(9), el Sadr W(10), Kirk O(2), Friis-Moller 
N(11), Monforte Ad(12), Phillips AN(13), Sabin CA(13), Lundgren JD(2); D:A:D 
Study Group.

Collaborators: Powderly B, Shortman N, Moecklinghoff C, Reilly G, Franquet X, 
Ryom L, Sabin CA, Kamara D, Smith C, Phillips A, Mocroft A, Tverland J, Mansfeld 
M, Nielsen J, Raben D, Lundgren JD, Salbøl Brandt R, Rickenbach M, Fanti I, Krum 
E, Hillebregt M, Geffard S, Sundström A, Delforge M, Fontas E, Torres F, McManus 
H, Wright S, Kjær J, Sjøl A, Meidahl P, Helweg-Larsen J, Schmidt Iversen J, Ryom 
L, Mocroft A, Kirk O, Reiss P, Ross M, Fux CA, Morlat P, Moranne O, Kesselring 
AM, Kamara DA, Smith C, Lundgren JD, Smith C, Ryom L, Phillips A, Weber R, 
Morlat P, Pradier C, Reiss P, Friis-Møller N, Kowalska J, Lundgren JD, Sabin C, 
Law M, d'Arminio Monforte A, Dabis F, Bruyand M, Reiss P, Smith C, Kamara DA, 
Bower M, Fätkenheuer G, Donald A, Grulich A, Ryom L, Lundgren JD, Reiss P, 
Zaheri S, Hillebregt M, Gras L, Prins JM, Kuijpers TW, Scherpbier HJ, Boer K, 
van der Meer JT, Wit FW, Godfried MH, Reiss P, van der Poll T, Nellen FJ, Lange 
JM, Geerlings SE, van Vugt M, Vrouenraets SM, Pajkrt D, van der Valk M, Schreij 
G, Lowe S, Oude Lashof A, Pronk MJ, Bravenboer B, van der Ende ME, de 
Vries-Sluijs TE, Schurink CA, van der Feltz M, Nouwen JL, Gelinck LB, Verbon A, 
Rijnders BJ, Slobbe L, Hartwig NG, Driessen GJ, Branger J, Kauffmann RH, 
Schippers EF, Groeneveld PH, Alleman MA, Bouwhuis JW, ten Kate RW, Soetekouw R, 
Kroon FP, van den Broek PJ, van Dissel JT, Arend SM, van Nieuwkoop C, de Boer 
MG, Jolink H, den Hollander JG, Pogany K, van Twillert G, Kortmann W, 
Vriesendorp R, Leyten EM, ten Napel CH, Kootstra GJ, Brinkman K, Blok WL, 
Frissen PH, Schouten WE, van den Berk GE, Juttmann JR, van Kasteren ME, Brouwer 
AE, Veenstra J, Lettinga KD, Mulder JW, van Gorp EC, Smit PM, Weijer S, van 
Eeden A, Verhagen DW, Sprenger HG, Doedens R, Scholvinck EH, van Assen S, Stek 
CJ, Koopmans PP, de Groot R, Keuter M, van der Ven AJ, ter Hofstede HJ, van der 
Flier M, Brouwer AM, Dofferhoff AS, Hoepelman AI, Mudrikova T, Schneider MM, 
Jaspers CA, Ellerbroek PM, Peters EJ, Maarschalk-Ellerbroek LJ, Oosterheert JJ, 
Arends JE, Wassenberg MW, van der Hilst JC, Danner SA, van Agtmael MA, de Vocht 
J, Perenboom RM, Claessen FA, Bierman WF, de Jong EV, bij de Vaate EA, Geelen 
SP, Wolfs TF, Richter C, van der Berg JP, Gisolf EH, van den Berge M, Stegeman 
A, van Houte DP, Polée MB, van Vonderen MG, Winkel C, Duits AJ, Dabis F, Bruyand 
M, Chêne G, Dabis F, Lawson-Ayayi S, Thiébaut R, Bonnal F, Bonnet F, Bernard N, 
Caunègre L, Cazanave C, Ceccaldi J, Chambon D, Chossat I, Dauchy FA, De Witte S, 
Dupon M, Duffau P, Dutronc H, Farbos S, Gaborieau V, Gemain MC, Gerard Y, Greib 
C, Hessamfar M, Lacoste D, Lataste P, Lafarie S, Lazaro E, Malvy D, Meraud JP, 
Mercié P, Monlun E, Morlat P, Neau D, Ochoa A, Pellegrin JL, Pistone T, Ragnaud 
JM, Receveur MC, Tchamgoué S, Vandenhende MA, Viallard JF, Moreau JF, Pellegrin 
I, Fleury H, Lafon ME, Masquelier B, Trimoulet P, Breilh D, Haramburu F, 
Miremont-Salamé G, Blaizeau MJ, Decoin M, Delaune J, Delveaux S, D'Ivernois C, 
Hanapier C, Leleux O, Uwamaliya-Nziyumvira B, Sicard X, Geffard S, Palmer G, 
Touchard D, Bonnet F, Dupon M, Mercié P, Morlat P, Pellegrin JL, Ragnaud JM, 
Dabis F, Law M, Petoumenos K, McManus H, Wright S, Bendall C, Moore R, Edwards 
S, Hoy J, Watson K, Roth N, Nicholson J, Bloch M, Franic T, Baker D, Vale R, 
Carr A, Cooper D, Chuah J, Ngieng M, Nolan D, Skett J, Calvo G, Torres F, Mateu 
S, Domingo P, Sambeat MA, Gatell J, Del Cacho E, Cadafalch J, Fuster M, Codina 
C, Sirera G, Vaqué A, De Wit S, Clumeck N, Delforge M, Necsoi C, Clumeck N, De 
Wit S, Gennotte AF, Gerard M, Kabeya K, Konopnicki D, Libois A, Martin C, Payen 
MC, Semaille P, Van Laethem Y, Neaton J, Bartsch G, El-Sadr WM, Krum E, Thompson 
G, Wentworth D, Luskin-Hawk R, Telzak E, El-Sadr WM, Abrams DI, Cohn D, 
Markowitz N, Arduino R, Mushatt D, Friedland G, Perez G, Tedaldi E, Fisher E, 
Gordin F, Crane LR, Sampson J, Baxter J, Lundgren J, Kirk O, Mocroft A, 
Cozzi-Lepri A, Grint D, Podlekareva D, Kjær J, Peters L, Reekie J, Kowalska J, 
Tverland J, Fischer AH, Nielsen J, Losso M, Elias C, Vetter N, Zangerle R, 
Karpov I, Vassilenko A, Mitsura VM, Suetnov O, Clumeck N, De Wit S, Delforge M, 
Colebunders R, Vandekerckhove L, Hadziosmanovic V, Kostov K, Begovac J, Machala 
L, Jilich D, Sedlacek D, Nielsen J, Kronborg G, Benfield T, Larsen M, Gerstoft 
J, Katzenstein T, Hansen AB, Skinhøj P, Pedersen C, Ostergaard L, Zilmer K, 
Smidt J, Ristola M, Katlama C, Viard JP, Girard PM, Livrozet JM, Vanhems P, 
Pradier C, Dabis F, Neau D, Rockstroh J, Schmidt R, van Lunzen J, Degen O, 
Stellbrink HJ, Staszewski S, Bickel M, Fätkenheuer G, Kosmidis J, Gargalianos P, 
Xylomenos G, Perdios J, Panos G, Filandras A, Karabatsaki E, Sambatakou H, 
Banhegyi D, Mulcahy F, Yust I, Turner D, Burke M, Pollack S, Hassoun G, Maayan 
S, Vella S, Esposito R, Mazeu I, Mussini C, Arici C, Pristera R, Mazzotta F, 
Gabbuti A, Vullo V, Lichtner M, Chirianni A, Montesarchio E, Gargiulo M, 
Antonucci G, Testa A, Narciso P, Vlassi C, Zaccarelli M, Lazzarin A, Castagna A, 
Gianotti N, Galli M, Ridolfo A, d'Arminio Monforte A, Rozentale B, Zeltina I, 
Chaplinskas S, Hemmer R, Staub T, Reiss P, Ormaasen V, Maeland A, Bruun J, Knysz 
B, Gasiorowski J, Horban A, Bakowska E, Grzeszczuk A, Flisiak R, 
Boron-Kaczmarska A, Pynka M, Parczewski M, Beniowski M, Mularska E, Trocha H, 
Jablonowska E, Malolepsza E, Wojcik K, Antunes F, Doroana M, Caldeira L, 
Mansinho K, Maltez F, Duiculescu D, Rakhmanova A, Zakharova N, Buzunova S, 
Jevtovic D, Mokráš M, Staneková D, Tomazic J, González-Lahoz J, Soriano V, 
Labarga P, Medrano J, Moreno S, Rodriguez JM, Clotet B, Jou A, Paredes R, Tural 
C, Puig J, Bravo I, Gatell JM, Miró JM, Domingo P, Gutierrez M, Mateo G, Sambeat 
MA, Karlsson A, Flamholc L, Ledergerber B, Weber R, Francioli P, Cavassini M, 
Hirschel B, Boffi E, Furrer H, Battegay M, Elzi L, Kravchenko E, Chentsova N, 
Frolov V, Kutsyna G, Servitskiy S, Krasnov M, Barton S, Johnson AM, Mercey D, 
Phillips A, Johnson MA, Mocroft A, Murphy M, Weber J, Scullard G, Fisher M, Leen 
C, Morfeldt L, Thulin G, Sundström A, Åkerlund B, Koppel K, Karlsson A, Flamholc 
L, Håkangård C, Moroni M, Antinori A, Carosi G, Cauda R, Chiodo F, d'Arminio 
Monforte A, Di Perri G, Galli M, Ghinelli F, Iardino R, Ippolito G, Lazzarin A, 
Mazzotta F, Panebianco R, Pastore G, Perno CF, d'Arminio Monforte A, Ammassari 
A, Antinori A, Balotta C, Bonfanti P, Capobianchi MR, Castagna A, Ceccherini- 
Silberstein F, Cozzi-Lepri A, d'Arminio Monforte A, De Luca A, Gervasoni C, 
Girardi E, Lo Caputo S, Maggiolo F, Murri R, Mussini C, Puoti M, Torti C, 
Cozzi-Lepri A, Fanti I, Formenti T, Montroni M, Giacometti A, Costantini A, Riva 
A, Tirelli U, Martellotta F, Pastore G, Ladisa N, Suter F, Maggiolo F, Chiodo F, 
Verucchi G, Fiorini C, Carosi G, Cristini G, Torti C, Minardi C, Bertelli D, 
Quirino T, Abeli C, Manconi PE, Piano P, Vecchiet J, Farenga M, Carnevale G, 
Lorenzotti S, Ghinelli F, Sighinolfi L, Leoncini F, Mazzotta F, Pozzi M, Lo 
Caputo S, Pagano G, Cassola G, Viscoli G, Alessandrini A, Piscopo R, Mazzarello 
G, Soscia F, Tacconi L, Orani A, Rossotto R, Tommasi D, Congedo P, Chiodera A, 
Castelli P, Galli M, Lazzarin A, Rizzardini G, Schlacht I, d'Arminio Monforte A, 
Ridolfo AL, Foschi A, Castagna A, Salpietro S, Merli S, Melzi S, Moioli MC, 
Cicconi P, Formenti T, Esposito R, Mussini C, Gori A, Abrescia N, Chirianni A, 
Izzo CM, De Marco M, Viglietti R, Manzillo E, Ferrari C, Pizzaferri P, Baldelli 
F, Camanni G, Magnani G, Ursitti MA, Arlotti M, Ortolani P, Cauda R, Andreoni M, 
Antinori A, Antonucci G, Narciso P, Tozzi V, Vullo V, De Luca A, Zaccarelli M, 
Acinapura R, De Longis P, Trotta MP, Lichtner M, Carletti F, Mura MS, Madeddu G, 
Caramello P, Di Perri G, Orofino GC, Raise E, Ebo F, Pellizzer G, Buonfrate D, 
Pradier C, Fontas E, Caissotti C, Dellamonica P, Bernard E, Cua E, De 
Salvador-Guillouet F, Durant J, Ferrando S, Mondain-Miton V, Naqvi A, Perbost I, 
Prouvost-Keller B, Pillet S, Pugliese P, Rahelinirina V, Roger PM, Dollet K, 
Barth J, Battegay M, Bernasconi E, Böni J, Bucher HC, Burton-Jeangros C, Calmy 
A, Cavassini M, Cellerai C, Dubs R, Egger M, Elzi L, Fehr J, Flepp M, Francioli 
P, Furrer H, Fux CA, Gorgievski M, Günthard H, Hasse B, Hirsch HH, Hirschel B, 
Hösli I, Kahlert C, Kaiser L, Keiser O, Kind C, Klimkait T, Kovari H, 
Ledergerber B, Martinetti G, Martinez de Tejada B, Müller N, Nadal D, Pantaleo 
G, Rauch A, Regenass S, Rickenbach M, Rudin C, Schmid P, Schultze D, 
Schöni-Affolter F, Schüpbach J, Speck R, Taffé P, Telenti A, Trkola A, Vernazza 
P, von Wyl V, Weber R, Yerly S.

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Infection and Population Health, University College 
London, London, UK. Electronic address: c.smith@ucl.ac.uk.
(2)CHIP, Department of Infectious Diseases (2100), Rigshospitalet, University of 
Copenhagen, Denmark.
(3)Division of Infectious Diseases, University Hospital Zurich, University of 
Zurich, Zurich Switzerland.
(4)Service de Medecine Intern et Maladies Infectieuses, CHU de Bordeaux, 
Universite Bordeaux Segalen, Bordeaux, France.
(5)Department of Public Health, Nice University Hospital, Nice, France.
(6)Academic Medical Center, University of Amsterdam, and Stichting HIV 
