Author information:
(1)Division of Functional Neuroanatomy, Institute of Anatomy, University of 
Zürich Zürich, Switzerland.
(2)Department of Zoology and Entomology, University of Pretoria Pretoria, South 
Africa.

African mole-rats (family Bathyergidae) are small to medium sized, long-lived, 
and strictly subterranean rodents that became valuable animal models as a result 
of their longevity and diversity in social organization. The formation and 
integration of new hippocampal neurons in adult mammals (adult hippocampal 
neurogenesis, AHN) correlates negatively with age and positively with habitat 
complexity. Here we present quantitative data on AHN in wild-derived mole-rats 
of 1 year and older, and briefly describe its anatomical context including 
markers of neuronal function (calbindin and parvalbumin). Solitary Cape 
mole-rats (Georychus capensis), social highveld mole-rats (Cryptomys hottentotus 
pretoriae), and eusocial naked mole-rats (Heterocephalus glaber) were assessed. 
Compared to other rodents, the hippocampal formation in mole-rats is small, but 
shows a distinct cytoarchitecture in the dentate gyrus and CA1. Distributions of 
the calcium-binding proteins differ from those seen in rodents; e.g., calbindin 
in CA3 of naked mole-rats distributes similar to the pattern seen in early 
primate development, and calbindin staining extends into the stratum 
lacunosum-moleculare of Cape mole-rats. Proliferating cells and young neurons 
are found in low numbers in the hippocampus of all three mole-rat species. 
Resident granule cell numbers are low as well. Proliferating cells expressed as 
a percentage of resident granule cells are in the range of other rodents, while 
the percentage of young neurons is lower than that observed in surface dwelling 
rodents. Between mole-rat species, we observed no difference in the percentage 
of proliferating cells. The percentages of young neurons are high in social 
highveld and naked mole-rats, and low in solitary Cape mole-rats. The findings 
support that proliferation is regulated independently of average life expectancy 
and habitat. Instead, neuronal differentiation reflects species-specific 
demands, which appear lower in subterranean rodents.

DOI: 10.3389/fnana.2014.00039
PMCID: PMC4033039
PMID: 24904308


412. Front Hum Neurosci. 2014 May 21;8:330. doi: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00330. 
eCollection 2014.

Habits: bridging the gap between personhood and personal identity.

Wagner NF(1), Northoff G(2).

Author information:
(1)Royal Ottawa Health Care Group, Mind, Brain Imaging and Neuroethics, 
Institute of Mental Health Research, University of Ottawa Ottawa, ON, Canada ; 
Taipei Medical University-Shuang Ho Hospital, Brain and Consciousness Research 
Center New Taipei City, Taiwan.
(2)Royal Ottawa Health Care Group, Mind, Brain Imaging and Neuroethics, 
Institute of Mental Health Research, University of Ottawa Ottawa, ON, Canada.

In philosophy, the criteria for personhood (PH) at a specific point in time 
(synchronic), and the necessary and sufficient conditions of personal identity 
(PI) over time (diachronic) are traditionally separated. Hence, the transition 
between both timescales of a person's life remains largely unclear. Personal 
habits reflect a decision-making (DM) process that binds together synchronic and 
diachronic timescales. Despite the fact that the actualization of habits takes 
place synchronically, they presuppose, for the possibility of their generation, 
time in a diachronic sense. The acquisition of habits therefore rests upon PI 
over time; that is, the temporal extension of personal decisions is the 
necessary condition for the possible development of habits. Conceptually, habits 
can thus be seen as a bridge between synchronic and diachronic timescales of a 
person's life. In order to investigate the empirical mediation of this temporal 
linkage, we draw upon the neuronal mechanisms underlying DM; in particular on 
the distinction between internally and externally guided DM. Externally guided 
DM relies on external criteria at a specific point in time (synchronic); on a 
neural level, this has been associated with lateral frontal and parietal brain 
regions. In contrast, internally guided DM is based on the person's own 
preferences that involve a more longitudinal and thus diachronic timescale, 
which has been associated with the brain's intrinsic activity. Habits can be 
considered to reflect a balance between internally and externally guided DM, 
which implicates a particular temporal balance between diachronic and synchronic 
elements, thus linking two different timescales. Based on such evidence, we 
suggest a habit-based neurophilosophical approach of PH and PI by focusing on 
the empirically-based linkage between the synchronic and diachronic elements of 
habits. By doing so, we propose to link together what philosophically has been 
described and analyzed separately as PH and PI.

DOI: 10.3389/fnhum.2014.00330
PMCID: PMC4033202
PMID: 24904370


413. Ann Pediatr Endocrinol Metab. 2013 Dec;18(4):168-72. doi: 
10.6065/apem.2013.18.4.168. Epub 2013 Dec 31.

Reduced male fertility in childhood cancer survivors.

Lee SH(1), Shin CH(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, Incheon, 
Korea.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Seoul National University College of Medicine, 
Seoul, Korea.

With advances in cancer treatment, more pediatric cancer patients have increased 
their life expectancy. Because cancer-related therapy causes various physical 
and psychological problems, many male survivors experience later problems with 
thyroid and sexual functions, and with growth. As outcomes have improved, more 
survivors need to maintain their reproductive function to maximize their 
long-term quality of life. Cancer and cancer-related treatment can impair 
fertility by damage to the testes, to the hypothalamic-pituitary-gonadal axis, 
or to the genitourinary organs. Prior radiation therapy to the testes, the use 
of alkylating agents, and central hypogonadism further impair fertility in male 
survivors of childhood cancer. Following any course of chemotherapy, 
peripubertal maturation, any testicular volume changes, and symptoms of androgen 
deficiency should be monitored systematically. If patients request fertility 
testing, spermatogenesis status can be evaluated either directly by semen 
analysis or indirectly by determination of the levels of 
testosterone/gonadotropins and by monitoring any changes in testicular volume. 
According to the patient's condition, semen cryopreservation, hormonal therapy, 
or assisted reproduction technologies should be provided.

DOI: 10.6065/apem.2013.18.4.168
PMCID: PMC4027084
PMID: 24904872

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


414. Brain Tumor Res Treat. 2013 Apr;1(1):2-8. doi: 10.14791/btrt.2013.1.1.2.
Epub  2013 Apr 30.

Current trends in glioblastoma multiforme treatment: radiation therapy and 
immune checkpoint inhibitors.

Nicholas S(1), Mathios D(1), Ruzevick J(1), Jackson C(1), Yang I(2), Lim M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, David Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, 
University of California Los Angeles, Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(3)Department of Neurosurgery, The Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, MD, USA. ; Department of Oncology, The Johns Hopkins University 
School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most common primary brain cancer. Even with 
aggressive combination therapy, the median life expectancy for patients with GBM 
remains approximately 14 months. In order to improve the outcomes of patients 
with GBM, the development of newer treatments is critical. The concept of using 
the immune system as a therapeutic option has been suggested for several 
decades; by harnessing the body's adaptive immune mechanisms, immunotherapy 
could provide a durable and targeted treatment against cancer. However, many 
cancers, including GBM, have developed mechanisms that protect tumor cells from 
being recognized and eliminated by the immune system. For new immunotherapeutic 
regimens to be successful, overcoming immunosuppression via immune checkpoint 
signaling should be taken into consideration.

DOI: 10.14791/btrt.2013.1.1.2
PMCID: PMC4027120
PMID: 24904882

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no financial conflicts of 
interest.


415. Int J Prosthodont. 2014 May-Jun;27(3):236-44. doi: 10.11607/ijp.3633.

Accuracy of medical subject heading indexing of dental survival analyses.

Layton DM, Clarke M.

PURPOSE: To assess the Medical Subject Headings (MeSH) indexing of articles that 
employed time-to-event analyses to report outcomes of dental treatment in 
patients.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Articles published in 2008 in 50 dental journals with the 
highest impact factors were hand searched to identify articles reporting dental 
treatment outcomes over time in human subjects with time-to-event statistics 
(included, n = 95), without time-to-event statistics (active controls, n = 91), 
and all other articles (passive controls, n = 6,769). The search was systematic 
(kappa 0.92 for screening, 0.86 for eligibility). Outcome-, statistic- and 
time-related MeSH were identified, and differences in allocation between groups 
were analyzed with chi-square and Fischer exact statistics.
RESULTS: The most frequently allocated MeSH for included and active control 
articles were "dental restoration failure" (77% and 52%, respectively) and 
"treatment outcome" (54% and 48%, respectively). Outcome MeSH was similar 
between these groups (86% and 77%, respectively) and significantly greater than 
passive controls (10%, P < .001). Significantly more statistical MeSH were 
allocated to the included articles than to the active or passive controls (67%, 
15%, and 1%, respectively, P < .001). Sixty-nine included articles specifically 
used Kaplan-Meier or life table analyses, but only 42% (n = 29) were indexed as 
such. Significantly more time-related MeSH were allocated to the included than 
the active controls (92% and 79%, respectively, P = .02), or to the passive 
controls (22%, P < .001).
CONCLUSIONS: MeSH allocation within MEDLINE to time-to-event dental articles was 
inaccurate and inconsistent. Statistical MeSH were omitted from 30% of the 
included articles and incorrectly allocated to 15% of active controls. Such 
errors adversely impact search accuracy.

DOI: 10.11607/ijp.3633
PMID: 24905264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


416. Int J Prosthodont. 2014 May-Jun;27(3):250-6. doi: 10.11607/ijp.3780.

Mortality patterns in partially edentulous and edentulous elderly patients 
treated with dental implants.

Kowar J, Stenport V, Jemt T.

An association between oral health, number of teeth, and mortality has been 
reported in the literature, but limited knowledge is available on mortality in 
elderly partially edentulous and edentulous patients treated with implants.
PURPOSE: The aim of this retrospective study was to compare the mortality 
pattern in elderly patients (80 years or older) who were provided with implants 
and were partially or completely edentulous.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between 1986 and 2003, a total of 266 elderly patients 
with a mean age of 83.0 years at the time of implant placement were included. 
The patients were provided with 1,384 Brånemark System implants (Nobel Biocare) 
in 285 arches. The sample was divided into two subgroups: 108 edentulous 
patients and 158 partially edentulous patients. Information was collected for 
each individual regarding expected remaining lifetime at the time of implant 
surgery. Cumulative survival rate (CSR) was calculated and compared for the two 
subgroups covering 10 years and was also compared to expected CSR data for 
normal populations of comparable distribution.
RESULTS: Mortality was significantly decreased (P < .05) for partially 
edentulous compared with edentulous patients (-10.4%) after 10 years of 
follow-up. CSR for the elderly groups showed a significant decrease in mortality 
compared with comparable groups of normal populations (P < .05). There was no 
significant difference in morality between healthy/nonhealthy patients at first 
surgery or patients with reported/unreported implant failures (P > .05).
CONCLUSIONS: Elderly partially edentulous patients had significantly lower 
mortality compared with edentulous patients over a 10-year period of follow-up. 
Both subgroups also showed significantly lower mortality compared with normal 
populations of comparable sex and age at the time of implant surgery. The 
observation is interpreted as that these patients are healthier and more 
motivated to replace their lost teeth with implants than the normal population 
rather than that implant treatment per se reduces mortality.

DOI: 10.11607/ijp.3780
PMID: 24905266 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


417. J Neurosurg Spine. 2014 Sep;21(3):394-9. doi: 10.3171/2014.5.SPINE13570.
Epub  2014 Jun 6.

Estimating EQ-5D values from the Neck Disability Index and numeric rating scales 
for neck and arm pain.

Carreon LY(1), Bratcher KR, Das N, Nienhuis JB, Glassman SD.

Author information:
(1)Norton Leatherman Spine Center, Louisville, Kentucky.

OBJECT: The Neck Disability Index (NDI) and numeric rating scales (0 to 10) for 
neck pain and arm pain are widely used cervical spine disease-specific measures. 
Recent studies have shown that there is a strong relationship between the SF-6D 
and the NDI such that using a simple linear regression allows for the estimation 
of an SF-6D value from the NDI alone. Due to ease of administration and scoring, 
the EQ-5D is increasingly being used as a measure of utility in the clinical 
setting. The purpose of this study is to determine if the EQ-5D values can be 
estimated from commonly available cervical spine disease-specific health-related 
quality of life measures, much like the SF-6D.
METHODS: The EQ-5D, NDI, neck pain score, and arm pain score were prospectively 
collected in 3732 patients who presented to the authors' clinic with 
degenerative cervical spine disorders. Correlation coefficients for paired 
observations from multiple time points between the NDI, neck pain and arm pain 
scores, and EQ-5D were determined. Regression models were built to estimate the 
EQ-5D values from the NDI, neck pain, and arm pain scores.
RESULTS: The mean age of the 3732 patients was 53.3 ± 12.2 years, and 43% were 
male. Correlations between the EQ-5D and the NDI, neck pain score, and arm pain 
score were statistically significant (p < 0.0001), with correlation coefficients 
of -0.77, -0.62, and -0.50, respectively. The regression equation 0.98947 + 
(-0.00705 × NDI) + (-0.00875 × arm pain score) + (-0.00877 × neck pain score) to 
predict EQ-5D had an R-square of 0.62 and a root mean square error (RMSE) of 
0.146. The model using NDI alone had an R-square of 0.59 and a RMSE of 0.150. 
The model using the individual NDI items had an R-square of 0.46 and an RMSE of 
0.172. The correlation coefficient between the observed and estimated EQ-5D 
scores was 0.79. There was no statistically significant difference between the 
actual EQ-5D score (0.603 ± 0.235) and the estimated EQ-5D score (0.603 ± 0.185) 
using the NDI, neck pain score, and arm pain score regression model. However, 
rounding off the coefficients to fewer than 5 decimal places produced less 
accurate results.
CONCLUSIONS: The regression model estimating the EQ-5D from the NDI, neck pain 
score, and arm pain score accounted for 60% of the variability of the EQ-5D with 
a relatively large RMSE. This regression model may not be sufficient to 
accurately or reliably estimate actual EQ-5D values.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.5.SPINE13570
PMID: 24905392 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


418. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 6;9(6):e98761. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098761.
eCollection  2014.

Does temperature-mediated reproductive success drive the direction of species 
displacement in two invasive species of leafminer fly?

Wang H(1), Reitz SR(2), Xiang J(1), Smagghe G(3), Lei Z(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, 
Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science, Beijing, 
People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Crop and Soil Science, Malheur County Extension, Oregon State 
University, Ontario, Oregon, United States of America.
(3)Department of Crop Protection, Faculty of Bioscience Engineering, Ghent 
University, Ghent, Belgium.

Liriomyza sativae and L. trifolii (Diptera: Agromyzidae) are two highly invasive 
species of leafmining flies, which have become established as pests of 
horticultural crops throughout the world. In certain regions where both species 
have been introduced, L. sativae has displaced L. trifolii, whereas the opposite 
has occurred in other regions. These opposing outcomes suggest that neither 
species is an inherently superior competitor. The regions where these 
displacements have been observed (southern China, Japan and western USA) are 
climatically different. We determined whether temperature differentially affects 
the reproductive success of these species and therefore if climatic differences 
could affect the outcome of interspecific interactions where these species are 
sympatric. The results of life table parameters indicate that both species can 
develop successfully at all tested temperatures (20, 25, 31, 33°C). L. sativae 
had consistently higher fecundities at all temperatures, but L. trifolii 
developed to reproductive age faster. Age-stage specific survival rates were 
higher for L. sativae at low temperatures, but these were higher for L. trifolii 
at higher temperatures. We then compared the net reproductive rates (R0) for 
both species in pure and mixed cultures maintained at the same four constant 
temperatures. Both species had significantly lower net reproductive rates in 
mixed species cultures compared with their respective pure species cultures, 
indicating that both species are subject to intense interspecific competition. 
Net reproductive rates were significantly greater for L. sativae than for L. 
trifolii in mixed species groups at the lower temperatures, whereas the opposite 
occurred at the higher temperature. Therefore, interactions between the species 
are temperature dependent and small differences could shift the competitive 
balance between the species. These temperature mediated effects may contribute 
to the current ongoing displacement of L. sativae by the more recent invader L. 
trifolii in warm climatic areas of China.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098761
PMCID: PMC4048184
PMID: 24906119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Co-author Guy Smegghe is a 
PLOS ONE Editorial Board member. This does not alter the authors' adherence to 
PLOS ONE Editorial policies and criteria.


419. Eur J Health Econ. 2015 Jul;16(6):573-87. doi: 10.1007/s10198-014-0610-8.
Epub  2014 Jun 7.

A model-based cost-effectiveness analysis of a grommets-led care pathway for 
children with cleft palate affected by otitis media with effusion.

Mohiuddin S(1), Payne K, Fenwick E, O'Brien K, Bruce I.

Author information:
(1)The Healing Foundation Cleft and Craniofacial Clinical Research Centre, 
University of Manchester, Manchester, UK, syed.mohiuddin@manchester.ac.uk.

There is a paucity of evidence to guide the management of otitis media with 
effusion (OME), which is a common problem causing significant hearing impairment 
in children with cleft palate. The insertion of grommets is currently being used 
to correct hearing impairment and prevent complications of unmanaged OME, but 
there is ongoing discussion about whether the benefits of grommets outweigh the 
costs and risks. A decision-tree model was developed to assess the surgical 
insertion of grommets with two non-surgical alternatives (hearing-aids and 
do-nothing strategies) in cleft palate children with persistent bilateral OME. 
The model assumed a 2-year time horizon and a UK National Health Service 
perspective. Outcomes were valued using quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
estimated by linking utility values with potential hearing gains measured in 
decibels. Multiple data sources were used, including reviews of the clinical 
effectiveness, resource use and utility literature, and supplemented with expert 
opinion. Uncertainty in the model parameters was assessed using probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis. Expected value of perfect information analysis was used to 
calculate the potential value of future research. The results from the 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis indicated that the grommets strategy was 
associated with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £9,065 per QALY 
gained compared with the do-nothing strategy, and the hearing-aids strategy was 
extended dominated by the grommets strategy. The population expected value of 
perfect information was £5,194,030 at a willingness to pay threshold of £20,000 
per QALY, implying that future research could be potentially worthwhile. This 
study found some evidence that the insertion of grommets to manage cleft palate 
children with bilateral OME is likely to be cost-effective, but further research 
is required to inform this treatment choice.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-014-0610-8
PMID: 24906214 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


420. Health Qual Life Outcomes. 2014 Jun 6;12:88. doi: 10.1186/1477-7525-12-88.

Gender differences in healthy life expectancy among Brazilian elderly.

Belon AP(1), Lima MG, Barros MB.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada. 
ana.belon@ualberta.ca.

BACKGROUND: This study examined gender differences in healthy life expectancy 
(HLE) and unhealthy life expectancy (UHLE) among people aged 60 years or older 
living in a large Brazilian city.
METHODS: Based on Chiang method, abridged life tables were constructed for men 
and for women. To calculate HLE, the Sullivan method was applied. Estimates of 
the prevalence of self-rated health and self-reported functional disability 
(global, mild/moderate, and severe) were obtained from a population-based 
household survey carried out in 2008, which involved non-institutionalized 
individuals.
RESULTS: Findings showed that women live longer and these extra years would be 
spent in good self-rated health. For example, women aged 60 would live, on 
average, 4 more years in good health in comparison to men. In terms of global 
limitations and mild/moderate limitations, no gender differences were detected 
for HLE. However, UHLE was statistically higher among women than among men at 
all ages in the global limitations and mild/moderate limitations (except for the 
age 80). Women at age 60, for instance, could expect to live 3.1 years longer 
with mild/moderate limitations compared to men. Gender differences were 
identified for severe limitations for either HLE or UHLE. In comparison to men, 
women at age 60, for example, would expect to live 2.5 and 2.0 more years 
without and with severe limitations.
CONCLUSIONS: By showing that the advantage of longer life expectancy among women 
is not necessarily accompanied by worse health conditions, these findings add 
some evidence to the debate about male-female health-survival paradox. Policy 
efforts are necessary to reduce gender differences in the quantity and quality 
of years to be lived, providing equal opportunities to women and men live longer 
with quality of life, autonomy, and independence.

DOI: 10.1186/1477-7525-12-88
PMCID: PMC4079932
PMID: 24906547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]421. Eur J Public Health. 2015 Apr;25(2):335-9. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cku069. Epub
2014  Jun 6.

Increasing disability-free life expectancy among older adults in Palestine from 
2006 to 2010.

Brønnum-Hansen H(1), Duraidi M(2), Qalalwa K(2), Jeune B(3).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Public Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen, Øster Farimagsgade 5, Copenhagen, Denmark 
henrik.bronnum-hansen@sund.ku.dk.
(2)2 Palestinian Central Bureau of Statistics, Ramallah, Palestine.
(3)3 Epidemiology, Institute of Public Health, and Danish Ageing Research 
Centre, University of Southern Denmark, Odense, Denmark.

BACKGROUND: The population of Palestine comprises almost 200 000 Palestinians 
aged 60 or older. The purpose of the study was to estimate disability-free life 
expectancy for Palestinians living in the West Bank and Gaza Strip and to 
evaluate changes from 2006 to 2010.
METHODS: The study combined mortality data and prevalence of activity limitation 
derived from the Palestinian Family Health Surveys carried out in 2006 and 2010. 
Based on questions about the ability to perform five basic daily activities, 
disability-free life expectancy was estimated. Changes between 2006 and 2010 
were decomposed into contributions from changes in mortality and disability.
RESULTS: Life expectancy at age 60 increased from 17.1 years in 2006 to 17.3 
years in 2010 for men and from 18.7 years to 19.0 years for women. 
Disability-free life expectancy increased significantly, by 1.3 years for 
60-year-old men (from 12.8 years to 14.1 years) and 1.8 years for 60-year-old 
women (from 12.6 years to 14.4 years). This increase was seen in the Gaza Strip 
as well as in the West Bank. While the modest contribution of the mortality 
effect did not differ between gender and regions, the strong contributions from 
the disability effects varied, being greatest for women in the Gaza Strip.
CONCLUSION: The significant increase in disability-free life expectancy for both 
genders is remarkable and, to our knowledge, not seen in other low-income 
countries. This change may be due to decreasing incidence of disability and 
greater recovery from disability as a result of better prevention, care and 
rehabilitation of chronic diseases.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cku069
PMID: 24906845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


422. Integr Cancer Ther. 2014 Jul;13(4):341-50. doi: 10.1177/1534735414534730.
Epub  2014 Jun 5.

Beneficial Effects of Pranic Meditation on the Mental Health and Quality of Life 
of Breast Cancer Survivors.

Castellar JI(1), Fernandes CA(1), Tosta CE(2).

Author information:
(1)Universidade de Brasília, Brasilia, Brazil.
(2)Universidade de Brasília, Brasilia, Brazil cetosta@unb.br.

BACKGROUND: Breast cancer survivors frequently present long-lasting impairments, 
caused either by the disease or its treatment, capable of compromising their 
emotional health and quality of life. Meditation appears to be a valuable 
complementary measure for overcoming some of these impairments. The purpose of 
the present investigation was to assess the effect of pranic meditation on the 
quality of life and mental health of breast cancer survivors.
DESIGN: This study was a prospective single-arm observational study using before 
and after measurements.
METHODS: The subjects were 75 women submitted either to breast cancer therapy or 
to posttherapy control who agreed to practice pranic meditation for 20 minutes, 
twice a day, during 8 weeks, after receiving a formal training. The quality of 
life of the practitioners was assessed by the European Organization for Research 
and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30 and EORTC BR-023 questionnaires, and the 
mental health status by the Goldberg's General Health Questionnaire.
RESULTS: After 8 weeks of pranic meditation practice, the subjects showed a 
significant improvement of their quality of life scores that included physical 
(P = .0007), role (P = .01), emotional (P = .002), and social functioning (P = 
.004), as well as global health status (P = .005), fatigue (P < .0001), pain (P 
= .007), sleep disturbances (P = .01), body image (P = .001), arm symptoms (P = 
.007), and breast symptoms (P = .002). They also showed a reduction of the side 
effects of systemic therapy (P = .02) and being upset by hair loss (P = .02). 
Moreover, meditation was associated with improvement of the mental health 
parameters of the practitioners that included psychic stress (P = .001), death 
ideation (P = .02), performance diffidence (P = .001), psychosomatic disorders 
(P = .02), and severity of mental disorders (P = .0003). The extension of the 
meditation period from 8 to 15 weeks caused no substantial extra benefits in 
practitioners.
CONCLUSIONS: The results of this pilot study showed that breast cancer survivors 
presented significant benefits related to their mental health and quality of 
life scores after a short period of practice of pranic meditation, consisting of 
simple and easy-to-learn exercises. However, because of the limitations of the 
study, further research is required using a more rigorous experimental design to 
ascertain whether pranic meditation may be an acceptable adjunct therapy for 
cancer patients.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1534735414534730
PMID: 24906909 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


423. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2014 Sep;68(9):826-33. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2014-204083. Epub 2014 Jun 6.

Drivers of inequality in disability-free expectancy at birth and age 85 across 
space and time in Great Britain.

Wohland P(1), Rees P(2), Gillies C(3), Alvanides S(4), Matthews FE(5), O'Neill 
V(5), Jagger C(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK.
(2)School of Geography, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(4)Geography and Built Environment, Northumbria University, Newcastle upon Tyne, 
UK.
(5)MRC Biostatistics Unit, Institute of Public Health, Cambridge, UK.

BACKGROUND: Although mortality and health inequalities at birth have increased 
both geographically and in socioeconomic terms, little is known about 
inequalities at age 85, the fastest growing sector of the population in Great 
Britain (GB).
AIM: To determine whether trends and drivers of inequalities in life expectancy 
(LE) and disability-free life expectancy (DFLE) at age 85 between 1991 and 2001 
are the same as those at birth.
METHODS: DFLE at birth and age 85 for 1991 and 2001 by gender were calculated 
for each local authority in GB using the Sullivan method. Regression modelling 
was used to identify area characteristics (rurality, deprivation, social class 
composition, ethnicity, unemployment, retirement migration) that could explain 
inequalities in LE and DFLE.
RESULTS: Similar to values at birth, LE and DFLE at age 85 both increased 
between 1991 and 2001 (though DFLE increased less than LE) and gaps across local 
areas widened (and more for DFLE than LE). The significantly greater increases 
in LE and DFLE at birth for less-deprived compared with more-deprived areas were 
still partly present at age 85. Considering all factors, inequalities in DFLE at 
birth were largely driven by social class composition and unemployment rate, but 
these associations appear to be less influential at age 85.
CONCLUSIONS: Inequalities between areas in LE and DFLE at birth and age 85 have 
increased over time though factors explaining inequalities at birth (mainly 
social class and unemployment rates) appear less important for inequalities at 
age 85.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2014-204083
PMCID: PMC4145463
PMID: 24907279 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


424. AIDS Behav. 2015 Jan;19(1):104-19. doi: 10.1007/s10461-014-0814-z.

Determinants of HIV outpatient service utilization: a systematic review.

Brennan A(1), Morley D, O'Leary AC, Bergin CJ, Horgan M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College Cork, Cork, 
Ireland, aline.brennan@ucc.ie.

Demands on HIV services are increasing as a consequence of the increased 
life-expectancy of HIV patients in the highly active antiretroviral therapy era. 
Understanding the factors that influence utilization of ambulatory HIV services 
is useful for planning service provision. This study reviewed factors associated 
with utilization of hospital based HIV out-patient services. Studies reporting 
person-based utilization rates of HIV-specific outpatient services broken down 
by patient or healthcare characteristics were eligible for inclusion. The 
Andersen Behavioral Model was used to organize the information extracted into 
pre-disposing, enabling and need components. Ten studies were included in the 
final review. Older age, private insurance, urban residence, lower CD4 counts, a 
diagnosis of AIDS, or anti-retroviral treatment were associated with higher 
utilization rates. The results of this review are consistent with existing 
knowledge regarding HIV patients' use of health services. Little information was 
identified on the influence of health service characteristics on utilization of 
out-patient services.

DOI: 10.1007/s10461-014-0814-z
PMID: 24907780 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


425. Ophthalmology. 2014 Oct;121(10):1855-62. doi: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.04.022.
Epub  2014 Jun 5.

Cost-effectiveness of fluocinolone acetonide implant versus systemic therapy for 
noninfectious intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis.

Multicenter Uveitis Steroid Treatment (MUST) Trial Research Group; Sugar EA(1), 
Holbrook JT(2), Kempen JH(3), Burke AE(2), Drye LT(2), Thorne JE(4), Louis 
TA(5), Jabs DA(6), Altaweel MM(7), Frick KD(8).

Collaborators: Jaffe GJ, Branchaud B, Hahn P, Koreen L, Lad EN, Lin P, Martel 
JN, Serrano NS, Skalak C, Vajzovic L, Baer C, Bryant J, Chavala S, Cusick M, Day 
S, Dayani P, Ehlers J, Kesen M, Lee A, Melamud A, Qureshi JA, Williams Scott A, 
See RF, Shuler RK, Wood M, Yeh S, Fernandes A, Gibbs D, Leef D, Martin DF, 
Srivastava S, Dunn JP, Begum H, Boring J, Brotherson KL, Burkholder B, Butler 
NJ, Cain D, Cook MA, Emmert D, Graul JR, Herring M, Laing A, Leung TG, Mahon MC, 
Moradi A, Nwankwo A, Ostheimer TL, Reed T, Arnold E, Barnabie PM, Belair ML, 
Bolton SG, Brodine JB, Brown DM, Brune LM, Galor A, Gan T, Jacobowitz A, Kapoor 
M, Kedhar S, Kim S, Leder HA, Livingston AG, Morton Y, Nolan K, Peters GB, Soto 
P, Stevenson R, Tarver-Carr M, Wang Y, Foster C, Anesi SD, Bruner L, Ceron O, 
Hinkle DM, Persons N, Wentworth B, Acevedo S, Anzaar F, Cesca T, Contero A, 
Fitzpatrick K, Goronga F, Johnson J, Lebron KQ, Marvell D, Morgan C, Patel N, 
Pinto J, Siddique SS, Sprague J, Yilmaz T, Sen H, Bono M, Cunningham D, Hayes D, 
Koutsandreas D, Nussenblatt RB, Sherry PR, Short GL, Smith W, Temple A, Bamji A, 
Coleman H, Davuluri G, Faia L, Gottlieb C, Jirawuthiworavong GV, Lew JC, Mercer 
R, Obiyor D, Perry CH, Potapova N, Weichel E, Wroblewski KJ, Yeh S, Latkany PA, 
Coonan C, Honda A, Lorenzo-Latkany M, Masini R, Morell S, Nguyen A, Badamo J, 
Boyd KM, Enos M, Gallardo J, Jarczynski J, Lee JY, McGrosky M, Nour A, Sanchez 
M, Steinberg K, Stawell RJ, Breayley L, D'Sylva C, Glatz E, Hodgson L, Lim L, 
Ling C, McIntosh R, Morrison J, Newton A, Sanmugasundram S, Smallwood R, Zamir 
E, Hunt N, Jones L, Koukouras I, Williams S, Merrill PT, Carns D, Richine L, 
Voskuil-Marre DL, Woo K, Gaynes B, Giannoulis C, Hulvey P, Kernbauer E, Khan HS, 
Levine SJ, Toennessen S, Wang RC, Aguado H, Arceneaux S, Duignan K, Fish GE, 
Hesse N, Jaramillo D, Mackens M, Arnwine J, Callanan D, Cummings K, Gray K, 
Howden S, Mutz K, Sanchez B, Lightman S, Ismetova F, Prytherch A, Samy A, 
Tomkins O, Bar A, Edwards K, Joshi L, Moraji J, Stubbs T, Taylor S, Towler H, 
Tronnberg R, Holland GN, Almanzor RD, Castellanos J, Hubschman JP, Johiro AK, 
Kukuyev A, Levinson RD, McCannel CA, Ransome SS, Gonzales CR, Gupta A, Kalyani 
PS, Kapamajian MA, Kappel PJ, Arcinue C, Chuang J, Barteselli G, Currie G, 
Mendoza V, Powell D, Clark T, Cochran DE, Freeman WR, Hedaya J, Kemper T, Kozak 
I, LeMoine JM, Loughran ME, Magana L, Mojana F, Morrison V, Nguyen V, Oster SF, 
Acharya N, Clay D, Lee S, Lew M, Margolis TP, Stewart J, Wong IG, Brown D, 
Khouri CM, Goldstein DA, Birnbaum A, Castro-Malek AL, Degillio A, De la Rosa G, 
Nash K, Rozenbajgier Z, Simjanowski E, Skelly M, Crooke CE, Huntley M, Niec M, 
Pyatetsky D, Ramirez M, Tessler HH, Davis JL, Albini TA, Chin M, Castaño D, 
Elizondo A, Ho M, Kovach JL, Lin RC, Mandelcorn E, Nguyen JK, Pacini A, Pineda 
S, Pinto DA, Rebimbas J, Stepien KE, Teran C, Elner SG, Bernard H, Fournier L, 
Godsey L, Goings L, Hackel R, Hesselgrave M, Jayasundera K, Prusak R, Titus P, 
Bergeron M, Blosser R, Brown R, Chrisman-McClure C, Gothrup JR, Saxe SJ, 
Sizemore D, Kempen JH, Berger J, Drossner S, DuPont JC, Maguire AM, Petner J, 
Engelhard S, Hopkins T, McCall D, McRay M, Will D, Xu W, Lo J, Salvo R, Windsor 
E, Weeney L, Pavan PR, Albritton K, Leto J, Madow B, Mayor L, Pautler SE, Saxon 
W, Soto J, Goldstein B, Klukoff A, Lambright L, McDonald K, Ortiz M, Scymanky S, 
Szalay DD, Rao N, Davis T, Douglass J, Linton J, Padilla M, Ramos S, Rao NA, 
Aguirre A, Chong L, Cisneros L, Corona E, Eliott D, Fawzi A, Garcia J, Khurana 
R, Lim J, Mead R, Tsai JH, Vitale A, Bernstein PS, Carlstrom B, Gilman J, 
Hanseen S, Morris P, Ramirez D, Wegner K, Sheppard JD, Anthony B, Casper A, 
Felix-Kent L, Fernandez J, Johnson T, Scoper SV, Cole R, Crawford N, Franklin L, 
Hamelin K, Martin J, Marx R, Schultz G, Webb J, Yeager P, Kim RY, Benz MS, Brown 
DM, Chen E, Fish RH, Kegley E, Shawver L, Wong TP, De La Garza R, Friday Hay S, 
Mutz K, Rao P, Adcock E, Apte RS, Baladenski A, Curtis R, Gould S, Hebden A, 
Kambarian J, Meyer C, Pistorius S, Quinn M, Rathert G, Blinder KJ, Hartz A, 
Light P, Shah GK, VanGelder R, Jabs DA, Altaweel MM, Holbrook JT, Kempen JH, 
Kurinij N, Jabs DA, Almanzor RD, Altaweel MM, Brown D, Dunn JP, Holbrook JT, 
Holland GN, Kempen JH, Kim RY, Kurinij N, Prusakowski N, Thorne JE, Bolton SG, 
Brune LM, Clark T, Gilman J, Hubbard L, Martin DF, Nussenblatt RB, Wittes J, 
Barlow WE, Hochberg M, Lyon AT, Palestine AG, Simon LS, Altaweel MM, Holbrook 
JT, Jabs DA, Kurinij N, Rosenbaum JT, Smith H, Kempen JH, Dunn JP, Jaffe GJ, 
Martin DF, Thorne JE, Acharya NR, Jabs DA, Kempen JH, Latkany PA, Vitale AT, 
Nussenblatt RB, VanGelder R, Almanzor RD, Boring JA, Gibbs D, Lee S, Prusakowski 
N, Thorne JE, Alexander J, Ng WP, Friedman DS, Adler A, Alexander J, Burke A, 
Holbrook JT, Katz J, Kempen JH, Prusakowski N, Reed S, Thorne JE, Ansari H, 
Cohen N, Modak S, Ng WP, Sugar EA, Burke AE, Drye LT, Frick K, Holbrook JT, 
Louis TA, Van Natta ML, Katz J, Modak S, Shade D, Jabs DA, Allen A, Hilal Y, 
Pascual K, Slutsky-Sanon JS, Glomp C, Nieves MA, Stevens M, Holbrook JT, Abreu 
F, Adler A, Boring J, Burke A, Dodge J, Drye LT, Ewing C, Friedman DS, Jackson 
R, Jimenez C, Lears A, Meinert J, Morrison V, Nowakowski D, Prusakowski N, 
Rayapudi S, Shade DM, Smith R, Steuernagle K, Sugar EA, Thorne JE, Van Natta M, 
Venugopal V, Alexander J, Chen P, Cohen N, Collins K, Frick KD, Katz J, Landers 
A, Livingston H, Louis TA, Meinert CL, Modak S, Ng WP, Shen W, Shiflett C, 
Tieman A, Tonascia JA, Zheng R, Altaweel MM, Allan J, Benz WK, Chambers G, 
Domalpally A, Freund J, Glander KE, Goulding A, Joyce JM, Kruse CN, Myers DJ, 
Pak JW, Reed S, Reimers JL, Remm A, Shaw RA, Thayer D, Treichel E, Warren KJ, 
Watson SM, White JK, Wilhelmson T, Zhang G, Christianson DJ, Fleischli MA, Gama 
V, Gangaputra S, Hafford D, Harris SE, Hubbard LD, Johnson KA, Nagle L, 
Padden-Lechten GE, Pohlman A, Sivesind P, Webster MK.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, The Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland; Department Epidemiology, The Johns Hopkins 
University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland; Center for 
Clinical Trials, The Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
Baltimore, Maryland; Division of Biostatistics and Bioinformatics, The Sidney 
Kimmel Comprehensive Cancer Center, The Johns Hopkins University School of 
Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland. Electronic address: esugar2@jhu.edu.
(2)Department Epidemiology, The Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland; Center for Clinical Trials, The Johns 
Hopkins University Bloomberg School of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland.
(3)Ocular Inflammation Service, Department of Ophthalmology/Scheie Eye 
Institute, The University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Center 
for Preventive Ophthalmology and Biostatistics, Department of 
Ophthalmology/Scheie Eye Institute, The University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, 
Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, The University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(4)Department Epidemiology, The Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland; Department of Ophthalmology, The Johns 
Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, Maryland.
(5)Department of Biostatistics, The Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland.
(6)Department Epidemiology, The Johns Hopkins University Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland; Department of Ophthalmology, The Icahn 
School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York; Department of Medicine, 
The Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York, New York. Electronic 
address: douglas.jabs@mssm.edu.
(7)Fundus Photograph Reading Center, Department of Ophthalmology and Visual 
Sciences, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wisconsin.
(8)The Johns Hopkins University Carey Business School, Baltimore, Maryland.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the 3-year incremental cost-effectiveness of fluocinolone 
acetonide implant versus systemic therapy for the treatment of noninfectious 
intermediate, posterior, and panuveitis.
DESIGN: Randomized, controlled, clinical trial.
PARTICIPANTS: Patients with active or recently active intermediate, posterior, 
or panuveitis enrolled in the Multicenter Uveitis Steroid Treatment Trial.
METHODS: Data on cost and health utility during 3 years after randomization were 
evaluated at 6-month intervals. Analyses were stratified by disease laterality 
at randomization (31 unilateral vs 224 bilateral) because of the large upfront 
cost of the implant.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: The primary outcome was the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) over 3 years: the ratio of the difference in 
cost (in United States dollars) to the difference in quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). Costs of medications, surgeries, hospitalizations, and regular 
procedures (e.g., laboratory monitoring for systemic therapy) were included. We 
computed QALYs as a weighted average of EQ-5D scores over 3 years of follow-up.
RESULTS: The ICER at 3 years was $297,800/QALY for bilateral disease, driven by 
the high cost of implant therapy (difference implant - systemic [Δ]: $16,900; P 
< 0.001) and the modest gains in QALYs (Δ = 0.057; P = 0.22). The probability of 
the ICER being cost-effective at thresholds of $50,000/QALY and $100,000/QALY 
was 0.003 and 0.04, respectively. The ICER for unilateral disease was more 
favorable, namely, $41,200/QALY at 3 years, because of a smaller difference in 
cost between the 2 therapies (Δ = $5300; P = 0.44) and a larger benefit in QALYs 
with the implant (Δ = 0.130; P = 0.12). The probability of the ICER being 
cost-effective at thresholds of $50,000/QALY and $100,000/QALY was 0.53 and 
0.74, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Fluocinolone acetonide implant therapy was reasonably 
cost-effective compared with systemic therapy for individuals with unilateral 
intermediate, posterior, or panuveitis but not for those with bilateral disease. 
These results do not apply to the use of implant therapy when systemic therapy 
has failed or is contraindicated. Should the duration of implant effect prove to 
be substantially >3 years or should large changes in therapy pricing occur, the 
cost-effectiveness of implant versus systemic therapy would need to be 
reevaluated.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Ophthalmology. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ophtha.2014.04.022
PMCID: PMC4178167
PMID: 24908205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


426. MMW Fortschr Med. 2014 Mar 6;156(4):18-20.

[Bringing health to the man: equality in preventive screening].

[Article in German]

Starostzik C.

Comment in
    MMW Fortschr Med. 2014 Mar 27;156 Spec No 1(1):17.

PMID: 24908759 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


427. Ir Med J. 2014 May;107(5):132.

Practicing medicine thirty years on.

Murphy JF.

PMID: 24908853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


428. Rev Med Brux. 2014 Mar-Apr;35(2):87-95.

[Sickle cell disease patients, sickness and medical accompanying questioning 
related to specific adolescent period].

[Article in French]

De Pauw S, Maccioni J, Efira A.

The sickle cell disease is a genetic disease of the hemoglobin, also called 
sickle-cell anemia. It is the most common genetic disease in the world. It is 
nevertheless still enough underestimated by the general public and even 
sometimes by the medical world. The patients who are affected suffer, besides a 
chronic anemia, extremely painful vaso-occlusive crises and possibly diverse 
complications. Because of the extension of their life expectancy, due to 
important medical progress, the patients are required to go to the hospital for 
adults. The object of this article is to try to draw a portrait of these 
patients and the multiple obstacles with wich they are confronted. These 
teenagers or grown-up young people have indeed to face important physical 
problems wich have significant psychological impact. How do they reconcile 
adolescentaire crisis and management of the disease? How can the hospital 
welcome at the best these "new" patients?

PMID: 24908947 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


429. Glob Chang Biol. 2015 May;21(5):1794-808. doi: 10.1111/gcb.12654. Epub 2014
Aug  4.

Extreme temperature events alter demographic rates, relative fitness, and 
community structure.

Ma G(1), Rudolf VH, Ma CS.

Author information:
(1)Climate Change Biology Research Group, State Key Laboratory for Biology of 
Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy 
of Agricultural Sciences, No 2, Yuanmingyuan West Road, Haidian District, 
Beijing, 100193, China.

The frequency and magnitude of extreme events are predicted to increase under 
future climate change. Despite recent advancements, we still lack a detailed 
understanding of how changes in the frequency and amplitude of extreme climate 
events are linked to the temporal and spatial structure of natural communities. 
To answer this question, we used a combination of laboratory experiments, field 
experiments, and analysis of multi-year field observations to reveal the effects 
of extreme high temperature events on the demographic rates and relative 
dominance of three co-occurrence aphid species which differ in their 
transmission efficiency of different agricultural pathogens. We then linked the 
geographical shift in their relative dominance to frequent extreme high 
temperatures through a meta-analysis. We found that both frequency and amplitude 
of extreme high temperatures altered demographic rates of species. However, 
these effects were species-specific. Increasing the frequency and amplitude of 
extreme temperature events altered which species had the highest fitness. 
Importantly, this change in relative fitness of species was consistent with 
significant changes in the relative dominance of species in natural communities 
in a 1 year long field heating experiment and 6 year long field survey of 
natural populations. Finally, at a global spatial scale, we found the same 
relationship between relative abundance of species and frequency of extreme 
temperatures. Together, our results indicate that changes in frequency and 
amplitude of extreme high temperatures can alter the temporal and spatial 
structure of natural communities, and that these changes are driven by 
asymmetric effects of high temperatures on the demographic rates and fitness of 
species. They also highlight the importance of understanding how extreme events 
affect the life-history of species for predicting the impacts of climate change 
at the individual and community level, and emphasize the importance of using a 
broad range of approaches when studying climate change.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/gcb.12654
PMID: 24909842 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


430. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Aug;14(4):569-76. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.908711. Epub 2014 Jun 7.

Mapping algorithms from QLQ-C30 to EQ-5D utilities: no firm ground to stand on 
yet.

Crott R(1).

Author information:
(1)1IRSS, Université Catholique de Louvain, Clos Chapelle aux Champs 30 bte 
30.15, 1200, Brussels, Belgium.

AIM: Over the last years several mapping or cross-walking algorithms for 
deriving utilities from QLQ-C30 scores have been published. However their 
external predictive accuracy has not yet been systematically compared.
METHODS: We tested the external validity of previously published mapping 
algorithms to transform the European Organization for Research and Treatment of 
Cancer QLQ-C30 questionnaire responses to EQ-5D derived Utilities.
RESULTS: When applied to different data sets, the currently published mapping 
showed a large variation between algorithms of the values of the mapped 
utilities, a low accuracy of the mapping compared to the observed EQ-5D 
utilities and no consistent performance between competing algorithms.
DISCUSSION: Therefore direct mapping from QLQ-C30 profiles to EQ-5D utilities 
using published algorithms should be viewed cautiously.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.908711
PMID: 24910212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


431. Recent Pat Endocr Metab Immune Drug Discov. 2014;8(3):153-79. doi: 
10.2174/1872214808666140608145810.

Novel neuroendocrine and metabolic mechanism provides the patented platform for 
important rejuvenation therapies: targeted therapy of telomere attrition and 
lifestyle changes of telomerase activity with the timing of neuron-specific 
imidazole-containing dipeptide-dominant pharmaconutrition provision.

Babizhayev MA, Kasus-Jacobi A, Vishnyakova KS, Yegorov YE(1).

Author information:
(1)Innovative Vision Products, Inc., Moscow Division, Ivanovskaya 20, Suite 74 
Moscow 127434 Russian Federation. markbabizhayev@yahoo.com.

Telomere length is emerging as a biomarker for aging and survival is paternally 
inherited and associated with parental lifespan. Telomere-associated cellular 
senescence may contribute to certain age-related disorders, including an 
increase in cancer incidence, wrinkling and diminished skin elasticity, 
atherosclerosis, osteoporosis, weight loss, age-related cataract, glaucoma and 
others. Shorter telomere length in leukocytes was associated cross-sectionally 
with cardiovascular disorders and its risk factors, including pulse pressure and 
vascular aging, obesity, vascular dementia, diabetes, coronary artery disease, 
myocardial infarction (although not in all studies), cellular turnover and 
exposure to oxidative and inflammatory damage in chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease. Effective regulation of abnormal therapeutic targets of an age-related 
disease requires the alteration of either the topological structure or dynamic 
characteristics of telomeres which are DNA-protein structures at the ends of 
eukaryotic chromosomes, the DNA of which comprise noncoding repeats of 
guanine-rich sequences. Telomeric DNA plays a fundamental role in protecting the 
cell from recombination and degradation, including those as the metabolic 
super-achievers in the body, organ systems in a given target network of a 
disease and aging. In order to manage and control the complex direct and 
indirect target hubs, in this paper, a review of the recent patents is made 
analyzing techniques, new approaches developed during the last years in adaptive 
pharmacology directed at slowing and preventing the loss of telomere length that 
may slow aging using pharmaceutical and nutritional module-based designs, such 
as with regard to the timing of administration of imidazole-containing 
dipeptides. We discuss our recent identification of the role of neuron-specific 
imidazole- containing dipeptide based compounds (L-carnosine, N-acetylcarnosine, 
carcinine) that regulate and therapeutically control telomere shortening, 
telomerase activity and cellular senescence. We support a therapeutic concept of 
using nonhydrolyzed forms of naturally occurring imidazole-dipeptide based 
compounds carnosine and carcinine, making it clinically possible that slowing 
down the rate of telomere shortening could slow down the human aging process in 
specific tissues where proliferative senescence is known to occur with the 
demonstrated evidence of telomere shortening appeared to be a hallmark of 
oxidative stress and disease. The preliminary longitudinal studies of elderly 
individuals suggest that longer telomeres are associated with better survival 
and an advanced oral pharmaconutrition provision with non-hydrolyzed carnosine 
(or carcinine and patented compositions thereof) is a useful therapeutic tool of 
a critical telomere length maintenance (allowing indirectly to manipulate with 
telomerase activity) that may fundamentally be applied in the therapeutic 
treatment of agerelated sight-threatening eye disorders, Diabetes mellitus, 
sarcopenia (that is the gradual loss of muscle mass) that can affect elderly 
people and subjects under the effect of exhausting exercises and physical load, 
prolong life expectancy, increase survival and chronological age of an organism 
in health control, smoking behavior, metabolic syndrome increasing the risk of 
developing cardio-vascular diseases, age-related neurodegenerative diseases, 
including Alzheimer's disease and cognitive impairment.

DOI: 10.2174/1872214808666140608145810
PMID: 24910283 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


432. Popul Health Metr. 2014 Jun 2;12:15. doi: 10.1186/1478-7954-12-15.
eCollection  2014.

Why equal treatment is not always equitable: the impact of existing ethnic 
health inequalities in cost-effectiveness modeling.

McLeod M(1), Blakely T(1), Kvizhinadze G(1), Harris R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, University of Otago Wellington, PO Box 7343 23 
Mein Street, Newtown Wellington, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: A critical first step toward incorporating equity into 
cost-effectiveness analyses is to appropriately model interventions by 
population subgroups. In this paper we use a standardized treatment intervention 
to examine the impact of using ethnic-specific (Māori and non-Māori) data in 
cost-utility analyses for three cancers.
METHODS: We estimate gains in health-adjusted life years (HALYs) for a simple 
intervention (20% reduction in excess cancer mortality) for lung, female breast, 
and colon cancers, using Markov modeling. Base models include ethnic-specific 
cancer incidence with other parameters either turned off or set to non-Māori 
levels for both groups. Subsequent models add ethnic-specific cancer survival, 
morbidity, and life expectancy. Costs include intervention and downstream health 
system costs.
RESULTS: For the three cancers, including existing inequalities in background 
parameters (population mortality and comorbidities) for Māori attributes less 
value to a year of life saved compared to non-Māori and lowers the relative 
health gains for Māori. In contrast, ethnic inequalities in cancer parameters 
have less predictable effects. Despite Māori having higher excess mortality from 
all three cancers, modeled health gains for Māori were less from the lung cancer 
intervention than for non-Māori but higher for the breast and colon 
interventions.
CONCLUSIONS: Cost-effectiveness modeling is a useful tool in the prioritization 
of health services. But there are important (and sometimes counterintuitive) 
implications of including ethnic-specific background and disease parameters. In 
order to avoid perpetuating existing ethnic inequalities in health, such 
analyses should be undertaken with care.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-7954-12-15
PMCID: PMC4047777
PMID: 24910540


433. J Biosoc Sci. 2015 Jul;47(4):521-35. doi: 10.1017/S0021932014000224. Epub
2014  Jun 9.

