comprehensive and multidisciplinary assessment of frail older persons, to 
identify the specific causes of frailty and to design a personalized preventive 
plan of intervention against disability. In the present paper, we describe the 
G.F.C structure, organization, details of the global evaluation and preventive 
interventions against disability, and provide the main characteristics of the 
first 1,108 patients evaluated during the first two years of operation.
METHODS: Persons aged 65 years and older, considered as frail by their physician 
(general practitioner, geriatrician or specialist) in the Toulouse area, are 
invited to undergo a multidisciplinary evaluation at the G.F.C. Here, the 
individual is assessed in order to detect the potential causes for frailty 
and/or disability. At the end of the comprehensive evaluation, the team members 
propose to the patient (in agreement with the general practitioner) a 
Personalized Prevention Plan (PPP) specifically tailored to his/her needs and 
resources. The G.F.C also provides the patient's follow-up in close connection 
with family physicians.
RESULTS: Mean age of our population was 82.9 ± 6.1 years. Most patients were 
women (n=686, 61.9%). According to the Fried criteria, 423 patients (39.1%) were 
pre-frail, and 590 (54.5%) frail. Mean ADL (Activities of Daily Living) score 
was 5.5 ± 1.0. Consistently, IADL (Instrumental ADL) showed a mean score of 5.6 
± 2.4. The mean gait speed was 0.78 ± 0.27 and 25.6% (272) of patients had a 
SPPB (Short Physical Performance Battery) score equal to or higher than 10. 
Dementia was observed in 14.9% (111) of the G.F.C population according to the 
CDR scale (CDR ≥2). Eight percent (84) presented an objective state of 
protein-energy malnutrition with MNA (Mini Nutritional Assessment) score < 17 
and 39.5% (414) were at risk of malnutrition (MNA=17-23.5). Concerning PPP, for 
54.6% (603) of patients, we found at least one medical condition which needed a 
new intervention and for 32.8% (362) substantial therapeutic changes were 
recommended. A nutritional intervention was proposed for 61.8% (683) of 
patients, a physical activity intervention for 56.7% (624) and a social 
intervention for 25.7% (284). At the time of analysis, a one-year reassessment 
had been carried out for 139 (26.7%) of patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The G.F.C was developed to move geriatric medicine to frailty, an 
earlier stage of disability still reversible. Its particularity is that it is 
intended for a single target population that really needs preventive measures: 
the frail elderly screened by physicians. The screening undergone by physicians 
was really effective because 93.6% of the subjects who referred to this 
structure were frail or pre-frail according to Fried's classification and needed 
different medical interventions. The creation of units like the G.F.C, 
specialized in evaluation, management and prevention of disability in frail 
population, could be an interesting option to support general practitioners, 
promote the quality of life of older people and increase life expectancy without 
disability.

DOI: 10.1007/s12603-014-0462-z
PMID: 24886728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


363. J Nerv Ment Dis. 2014 Jun;202(6):507-12. doi: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000000151.

Community mental health care in the future: nine proposals.

Thornicroft G(1), Tansella M.

Author information:
(1)*Health Service and Population Research Department, King's College London, 
Institute of Psychiatry, London, England; and †WHO Collaborating Centre for 
Research and Training in Mental Health and Service Evaluation, Department of 
Public Health and Community Medicine, University of Verona, Verona, Italy.

The aim of this article was to put community psychiatry into a longitudinal and 
global perspective and to try to look into the future. Specifically, we set out 
the following nine proposals:1. Central and regional government should measure 
the treated percentage of people with mental illness (coverage) and set specific 
targets to increase coverage over set time periods.2. Health care services need 
to recognize the far lower life expectancy among people with mental disorders 
and develop and evaluate new methods to reduce this health disparity.3. Mental 
health services should provide specific modules to reduce stigma and 
discrimination experienced by people with mental illness.4. Mental health staff 
should provide care that service users (and their family members) find 
accessible and acceptable.5. Mental health care should consist of a careful 
balance of hospital and community care, with most care provided at or near 
people's homes.6. Mental health planners, both in times of economic growth and 
recession, should invest in treatments known to be effective and disinvest from 
treatments known to be ineffective or even harmful.7. Mental health staff and 
service users should develop and evaluate methods to improve shared decision 
making.8. Health care practitioners (of western and nonwestern traditions) 
should take practical steps to see each other as partners in an integrated 
system that increases the total amount of mental health care available, while 
ensuring that only effective and acceptable treatments are provided.9. Mental 
health services should develop dedicated programs for recovery: this implies 
that staff understand an individual's personal recovery goals and fully support 
his/her achievement.

DOI: 10.1097/NMD.0000000000000151
PMID: 24886950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. J Exp Clin Cancer Res. 2014 May 19;33(1):43. doi: 10.1186/1756-9966-33-43.

Hepatic arterial embolization in patients with neuroendocrine tumors.

Del Prete M, Fiore F, Modica R, Marotta V, Marciello F, Ramundo V, Di Sarno A, 
Carratù A, di Roseto Cde L, Tafuto S, Tatangelo F, Baldelli R, Colao A, Faggiano 
A(1); Multidisciplinary Group for NeuroEndocrine Tumors of Naples.

Author information:
(1)Divisione di Endocrinologia, Dipartimento di Medicina Clinica e Chirurgia, 
Università di Napoli Federico II, Naples, Italy. afaggian@unina.it.

Liver metastases occur in 46-93% of patients with neuroendocrine neoplasms 
(NENs). Presence and extension of liver metastases are considered important 
prognostic factors, as they may significantly impair the patient's quality of 
life, because of either tumor bulk or hormonal hypersecretion. Therapies for NEN 
liver metastases include surgical resection, liver transplantation, chemotherapy 
and biotherapy. Surgery is the gold standard for curative therapy, but in most 
of NEN patients with liver metastases, when surgery can not be applied, 
minimally invasive therapeutic approaches are adopted. They include 
trans-arterial embolization (TAE), trans-arterial chemoembolization (TACE), 
radiofrequency thermal ablation and new emerging techniques.TAE is based on 
selective infusion of particles in the branch of the hepatic artery supplying 
the tumor lesions. The goal of TAE is to occlude tumor blood vessels resulting 
in ischemia and necrosis. Many reports have shown that TAE can reduce tumor size 
and hormone output, resulting in palliation of symptoms without the use of 
cytotoxic drugs, resulting in better tolerability. This review will focus on TAE 
performance and safety in NEN patients with liver metastases.

DOI: 10.1186/1756-9966-33-43
PMCID: PMC4038067
PMID: 24887262 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Am Surg. 2014 Apr;80(4):372-6.

Prothrombin complex concentrate accelerates international normalized ratio 
reversal and diminishes the extension of intracranial hemorrhage in geriatric 
trauma patients.

Edavettal M(1), Rogers A, Rogers F, Horst M, Leng W.

Author information:
(1)Lancaster General Health, Lancaster, Pennsylvania, USA.

Warfarin therapy increases the incidence intracranial hemorrhage (ICH), 
especially in the geriatric population. Timely reversal of international 
normalized ratio (INR) is integral in the management of these patients for whom 
fresh frozen plasma (FFP) with vitamin K is the standard of treatment. We 
hypothesized that implementing a protocol that used prothrombin complex 
concentrate (PCC) would reverse INR values more swiftly and decrease the amount 
of FFP administered. In November 2011, a protocol was implemented for 
administering PCC to the geriatric population on warfarin admitted for 
life-threatening bleeds. These patients received 25 IU/kg ideal body weight of a 
three-factor PCC (Profilnine SD) if their INR was over 1.5 or greater. FFP was 
given if follow-up INR revealed an INR of 1.5 or greater. Retrospectively the 
data from 29 patients who received PCC were compared with a historical control 
group of 34 patients. Protocol use resulted in a significantly faster INR 
reversal (PCC: 151.6 ± 84.3 minutes vs control: 485.0 ± 321 minutes; P < 0.001), 
time to achieve an INR less than 1.5 (PCC: 484 ± 242 minutes vs control: 971 ± 
1208 minutes; P = 0.036), and less FFP administered (PCC: 1.3 ± 1.0 vs 
control:3.3 ± 1.5; P < 0.001). PCC patients had a decreased incidence of 
progression of their ICH (PCC: 17.2% vs control: 44.2%; P = 0.031). Rapid 
reversal of coagulopathy in geriatric patients on warfarin is vital to limit the 
extent of ICH. PCC allows a much more rapid reversal than standard treatment 
with only FFP and vitamin K. Adopting such a protocol is associated not only 
with a more rapid reversal and less FFP use, but also less patients went on to 
extend their head bleeds.

PMID: 24887668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Am Surg. 2014 Jun;80(6):604-9.

Life expectancy after curative-intent treatment of breast cancer: impact on 
long-term follow-up care.

Arrington AK(1), Goldstein L, Kruper L, Vito C, Yim J, Chen SL.

Author information:
(1)City of Hope National Medical Center, Duarte, California, USA.

Long-term survival rates after treatment for breast cancer are directly 
influenced by early deaths resulting from disease. For longer-term breast cancer 
survivors, survival rates appear deceptively low. We hypothesize that the actual 
survival curve for long-term survivors approaches the overall survival of the 
general population. The Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results database 
(1988 to 2002) was used to identify patients with nonmetastatic breast cancer 
who underwent definitive surgical treatment. The survival of the general 
population was constructed by using national life tables with an age-matched 
population. Comparisons of survivals were made for 3-, 5-, and 7-year breast 
cancer survivor cohorts. Of 237,180 patients, 92.4 per cent survived three 
years, 82.1 per cent five years, and 58.1 per cent seven years. Stage I patients 
have equivalent or better survivals compared with the age-matched general 
population in all three cohorts. Stage II patients reached equivalent 
conditional survival between eight and nine years after diagnosis regardless of 
cohort. Stage III patients required achieving nine to 10 years after diagnosis 
to achieve equivalent survival probability, except in 7-year survivors, in whom 
10 to 11 years was required. In all stages, once equivalence was reached, 
survival exceeded the general population over the remaining years. Initial 
cancer stage influences overall survival for many years after diagnosis. 
Patients with Stage I cancer return to the general population risk as early as 
three years after diagnosis, whereas higher stages can require up to nine years 
to achieve parity with a more generalized population. These findings should be 
factored into general health screening issues for long-term breast cancer 
survivors.

PMID: 24887800 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. Am J Phys Med Rehabil. 2014 Jul;93(7):615-23. doi:
10.1097/PHM.0000000000000123.

Disability predictors in chronic low back pain after aquatic exercise.

Baena-Beato PÁ(1), Delgado-Fernández M, Artero EG, Robles-Fuentes A, 
Gatto-Cardia MC, Arroyo-Morales M.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Physical Education and Sport, University of Granada, 
Granada, Spain (PÁB-B, MD-F, AR-F); Department of Exercise Science, Arnold 
School of Public Health, University of South Carolina, Columbia (EGA); 
Department of Education, University of Almería, Almería, Spain (EGA); Department 
of Physiotherapy, Universidade Federal da Paraíba, Paraiíba, Brasil (MCG-C); and 
Department of Physiotherapy, University of Granada, Granada, Spain (MA-M).

The physical and psychological factors associated with reduction of disability 
after aquatic exercise are not well understood. Sixty participants (30 men and 
30 women; age, 50.60 [9.69] yrs; body mass index, 27.21 [5.20] kg/m²) with 
chronic low back pain were prospectively recruited. The 8-wk aquatic therapy 
program was carried out in an indoor pool sized 25 × 6 m, with 140-cm water 
depth and 30°C (1°C) of water temperature, where patients exercised for 2-5 days 
a week. Each aquatic exercise session lasted 55-60 mins (10 mins of warm-up, 
20-25 mins of aerobic exercise, 15-20 mins of resistance exercise, and 10 mins 
of cooldown). Demographic information, disability (Oswestry Disability Index), 
back pain (visual analog scale), quality-of-life (Short Form 36), abdominal 
muscular endurance (curl-up), handgrip strength, trunk flexion and hamstring 
length (sit and reach), resting heart rate, and body mass index were outcomes 
variables. Significant correlations between change in disability and visual 
analog scale (at rest, flexion, and extension), curl-up and handgrip (r ranged 
between -0.353 and 0.582, all Ps < 0.01) were found. Changes in pain and 
abdominal muscular endurance were significant predictors of change in disability 
after therapy.

DOI: 10.1097/PHM.0000000000000123
PMID: 24887967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Food Sci. 2014 Jul;79(7):R1231-49. doi: 10.1111/1750-3841.12492. Epub 2014
Jun  2.

Essential oils: extraction, bioactivities, and their uses for food preservation.

Tongnuanchan P(1), Benjakul S.

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Food Technology, Faculty of Agro-Industry, Prince of Songkla Univ, 
15 Kanchanawanish Road, Hat Yai, Songkhla, 90112, Thailand.

Essential oils are concentrated liquids of complex mixtures of volatile 
compounds and can be extracted from several plant organs. Essential oils are a 
good source of several bioactive compounds, which possess antioxidative and 
antimicrobial properties. In addition, some essential oils have been used as 
medicine. Furthermore, the uses of essential oils have received increasing 
attention as the natural additives for the shelf-life extension of food 
products, due to the risk in using synthetic preservatives. Essential oils can 
be incorporated into packaging, in which they can provide multifunctions termed 
"active or smart packaging." Those essential oils are able to modify the matrix 
of packaging materials, thereby rendering the improved properties. This review 
covers up-to-date literatures on essential oils including sources, chemical 
composition, extraction methods, bioactivities, and their applications, 
particularly with the emphasis on preservation and the shelf-life extension of 
food products.

© 2014 Institute of Food Technologists®

DOI: 10.1111/1750-3841.12492
PMID: 24888440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Planta. 2014 Aug;240(2):399-408. doi: 10.1007/s00425-014-2096-0. Epub 2014
Jun  3.

Strigolactone signaling regulates rice leaf senescence in response to a 
phosphate deficiency.

Yamada Y(1), Furusawa S, Nagasaka S, Shimomura K, Yamaguchi S, Umehara M.

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Life Sciences, Toyo University, 1-1-1 Izumino, 
Itakura-machi, Ora-gun, Gunma, 374-0193, Japan.

Strigolactones (SLs) act as plant hormones that inhibit shoot branching and 
stimulate secondary growth of the stem, primary root growth, and root hair 
elongation. In the moss Physcomitrella patens, SLs regulate branching of 
chloronemata and colony extension. In addition, SL-deficient and SL-insensitive 
mutants show delayed leaf senescence. To explore the effects of SLs on leaf 
senescence in rice (Oryza sativa L.), we treated leaf segments of rice dwarf 
mutants with a synthetic SL analogue, GR24, and evaluated their chlorophyll 
contents, ion leakage, and expression levels of senescence-associated genes. 
Exogenously applied GR24 restored normal leaf senescence in SL-deficient 
mutants, but not in SL-insensitive mutants. Most plants highly produce 
endogenous SLs in response to phosphate deficiency. Thus, we evaluated effects 
of GR24 under phosphate deficiency. Chlorophyll levels did not differ of in the 
wild-type between the sufficient and deficient phosphate conditions, but 
increased in the SL-deficient mutants under phosphate deficiency, leading in the 
strong promotion of leaf senescence by GR24 treatment. These results indicate 
that the mutants exhibited increased responsiveness to GR24 under phosphate 
deficiency. In addition, GR24 accelerated leaf senescence in the intact 
SL-deficient mutants under phosphate deficiency as well as dark-induced leaf 
senescence. The effects of GR24 were stronger in d10 compared to d17. Based on 
these results, we suggest that SLs regulate leaf senescence in response to 
phosphate deficiency.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-014-2096-0
PMID: 24888863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2014 Jun 17;111(24):E2501-9. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1321776111. Epub 2014 Jun 2.

Metformin promotes lifespan through mitohormesis via the peroxiredoxin PRDX-2.

De Haes W(1), Frooninckx L(1), Van Assche R(1), Smolders A(2), Depuydt G(1), 
Billen J(3), Braeckman BP(2), Schoofs L(4), Temmerman L(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory for Functional Genomics and Proteomics and.
(2)Laboratory for Aging Physiology and Molecular Evolution, Department of 
Biology, Ghent University, 9000 Ghent, Belgium.
(3)Laboratory of Socioecology and Social Evolution, Department of Biology, KU 
Leuven, 3000 Leuven, Belgium; and.
(4)Laboratory for Functional Genomics and Proteomics and 
Liliane.Schoofs@bio.kuleuven.be.

The antiglycemic drug metformin, widely prescribed as first-line treatment of 
type II diabetes mellitus, has lifespan-extending properties. Precisely how this 
is achieved remains unclear. Via a quantitative proteomics approach using the 
model organism Caenorhabditis elegans, we gained molecular understanding of the 
physiological changes elicited by metformin exposure, including changes in 
branched-chain amino acid catabolism and cuticle maintenance. We show that 
metformin extends lifespan through the process of mitohormesis and propose a 
signaling cascade in which metformin-induced production of reactive oxygen 
species increases overall life expectancy. We further address an important issue 
in aging research, wherein so far, the key molecular link that translates the 
reactive oxygen species signal into a prolongevity cue remained elusive. We show 
that this beneficial signal of the mitohormetic pathway is propagated by the 
peroxiredoxin PRDX-2. Because of its evolutionary conservation, peroxiredoxin 
signaling might underlie a general principle of prolongevity signaling.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1321776111
PMCID: PMC4066537
PMID: 24889636 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


371. BMJ Open. 2014 Jun 2;4(6):e004711. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-004711.

Spatial inequalities in life expectancy within postindustrial regions of Europe: 
a cross-sectional observational study.

Taulbut M(1), Walsh D(2), McCartney G(1), Parcell S(2), Hartmann A(3), Poirier 
G(4), Strniskova D(5), Hanlon P(6).

Author information:
(1)NHS Health Scotland, Glasgow, UK.
(2)Glasgow Centre for Population Health, Glasgow, UK.
(3)Ruhr-Universität Bochum, Bochum, Germany.
(4)Observatoire Régional de la Santé (ORS), Nord-Pas-de-Calais, Loos, France.
(5)Regional Public Health Authority of the Olomouc Region of the Czech Republic, 
Olomouc, Czech Republic.
(6)University of Glasgow, Glasgow, UK.

OBJECTIVES: To compare spatial inequalities in life expectancy (LE) in West 
Central Scotland (WCS) with nine other postindustrial European regions.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional observational study.
SETTING: WCS and nine other postindustrial regions across Europe.
PARTICIPANTS: Data for WCS and nine other comparably deindustrialised European 
regions were analysed. Male and female LEs at birth were obtained or calculated 
for the mid-2000s for 160 districts within selected regions. Districts were 
stratified into two groups: small (populations of between 141 000 and 185 000 
people) and large (populations between 224 000 and 352 000). The range and IQR 
in LE were used to describe within-region disparities.
RESULTS: In small districts, the male LE range was widest in WCS and Merseyside, 
while the IQR was widest in WCS and Northern Ireland. For women, the LE range 
was widest in WCS, though the IQR was widest in Northern Ireland and Merseyside. 
In large districts, the range and IQR in LE was widest in WCS and Wallonia for 
both sexes.
CONCLUSIONS: Subregional spatial inequalities in LE in WCS are wide compared 
with other postindustrial mainland European regions, especially for men. Future 
research could explore the contribution of economic, social and political 
factors in reducing these inequalities.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2013-004711
PMCID: PMC4054650
PMID: 24889851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Benef Microbes. 2014 Sep;5(3):235-46. doi: 10.3920/BM2013.0079.

Understanding gut microbiota in elderly's health will enable intervention 
through probiotics.

Pérez Martínez G(1), Bäuerl C(1), Collado MC(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Lactic acid bacteria and Probiotics, Department of Food 
Biotechnology, Instituto de Agroquímica y Tecnología de Alimentos, Consejo 
Superior de Investigaciones Científicas (CSIC), Avenida Agustín Escardino 7, 
46980 Paterna (Valencia), Spain.

Today, advances in the public health system of most countries have managed to 
extend notably life expectancy, however, elderly's health remain as a very 
serious concern. The lifelong stimulation of innate and adaptive immune systems 
leads to immunosenescence and, as result, to a low ability to produce 
immunoglobulins against pathogens but also to a low-grade chronic inflammatory 
state (inflammaging) that is linked to most age-related health problems, such as 
dementia, Alzheimer or atherosclerosis. This inflammatory state could make the 
host more sensitive to intestinal microbes, or vice versa, as changes in the gut 
microbiota composition are related to the progression of diseases and frailty in 
the elderly population. It was considered that gut microbiota changed during 
aging, with an increase of Bacteroidetes vs. Firmicutes proportion and a 
reduction of bifidobacterial counts, however recent studies reported a great 
inter-individual variation among elderly and a significant relationship between 
gut microbiota, diet and institution or community living. Intervention studies 
of probiotics and prebiotics in elderly are not very abundant, but most cases 
showed that Bifidobacterium populations can efficiently be stimulated with a 
concomitant decrease of Enterobacteria. Furthermore, also some studies 
demonstrated that probiotics decreased the synthesis of pro-inflammatory 
cytokines which are upregulated in the elderly, such as interleukin (IL)-8, IL-6 
or tumour necrosis factor ?, among others, and they increased the levels of 
activated lymphocytes, natural killer cells, phagocytic activity and even showed 
a greater response to influenza vaccination. This suggests that direct 
manipulation of the gut microbiota may improve adaptive immune response and 
reduce inflammatory secretions, therefore compensating immunosenescence effects, 
however, there are no records of their effect on clinical symptoms or risk for 
disease. Those facts reveal that this is an open research field with very good 
scientific perspectives and above all they could bring likely improvements in 
the wellbeing of our seniors.

DOI: 10.3920/BM2013.0079
PMID: 24889891 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. World Psychiatry. 2014 Jun;13(2):153-60. doi: 10.1002/wps.20128.

Risks of all-cause and suicide mortality in mental disorders: a meta-review.

Chesney E(1), Goodwin GM, Fazel S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, University of Oxford, Warneford Hospital, Oxford, 
OX3 7JX, UK.

A meta-review, or review of systematic reviews, was conducted to explore the 
risks of all-cause and suicide mortality in major mental disorders. A systematic 
search generated 407 relevant reviews, of which 20 reported mortality risks in 
20 different mental disorders and included over 1.7 million patients and over a 
quarter of a million deaths. All disorders had an increased risk of all-cause 
mortality compared with the general population, and many had mortality risks 
larger than or comparable to heavy smoking. Those with the highest all-cause 
mortality ratios were substance use disorders and anorexia nervosa. These higher 
mortality risks translate into substantial (10-20 years) reductions in life 
expectancy. Borderline personality disorder, anorexia nervosa, depression and 
bipolar disorder had the highest suicide risks. Notable gaps were identified in 
the review literature, and the quality of the included reviews was typically 
low. The excess risks of mortality and suicide in all mental disorders justify a 
higher priority for the research, prevention, and treatment of the determinants 
of premature death in psychiatric patients.

Copyright © 2014 World Psychiatric Association.

DOI: 10.1002/wps.20128
PMCID: PMC4102288
PMID: 24890068


374. CA Cancer J Clin. 2014 Jul-Aug;64(4):221-2. doi: 10.3322/caac.21229. Epub
2014  May 28.

Prostate cancer screening rates remain stable despite recommendations against 
testing men with limited life expectancy.

Barton MK.

DOI: 10.3322/caac.21229
PMID: 24890093 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


375. An Pediatr (Barc). 2014 Oct;81(4):259.e1-9. doi:
10.1016/j.anpedi.2014.04.008.  Epub 2014 Jun 2.

[Respiratory treatments in neuromuscular disease].

[Article in Spanish]

Martínez Carrasco C(1), Cols Roig M(2), Salcedo Posadas A(3), Sardon Prado O(4), 
Asensio de la Cruz O(5), Torrent Vernetta A(6).

Author information:
(1)Sección de Neumología Pediátrica, Hospital Universitario La Paz, Madrid, 
España. Electronic address: cmcarrasco@salud.madrid.org.
(2)Sección de Neumología Pediátrica, Hospital Sant Joan de Déu, Barcelona, 
España.
(3)Sección de Neumología Pediátrica, Hospital Universitario Gregorio Marañón, 
Madrid, España.
(4)Sección de Neumología Pediátrica, Hospital Universitario Donostia, San 
Sebastián, Guipúzcoa, España.
(5)Sección de Neumología Pediátrica, Hospital de Sabadell, Corporació Sanitària 
i Universitària Parc Taulí, Sabadell, Barcelona, España.
(6)Sección de Neumología Pediátrica, Hospital Universitario Vall d'Hebron, 
Barcelona, España.

In a previous article, a review was presented of the respiratory pathophysiology 
of the patient with neuromuscular disease, as well as their clinical evaluation 
and the major complications causing pulmonary deterioration. This article 
presents the respiratory treatments required to preserve lung function in 
neuromuscular disease as long as possible, as well as in special situations 
(respiratory infections, spinal curvature surgery, etc.). Special emphasis is 
made on the use of non-invasive ventilation, which is changing the natural 
history of many of these diseases. The increase in survival and life expectancy 
of these children means that they can continue their clinical care in adult 
units. The transition from pediatric care must be an active, timely and 
progressive process. It may be slightly stressful for the patient before the 
adaptation to this new environment, with multidisciplinary care always being 
maintained.

Copyright © 2013 Asociación Española de Pediatría. Published by Elsevier Espana. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anpedi.2014.04.008
PMID: 24890888 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2014 Jul;62(7):1272-80. doi: 10.1111/jgs.12890. Epub 2014
Jun  2.

Cost-utility analysis of a pharmacotherapy follow-up for elderly nursing home 
residents in Spain.

Jódar-Sánchez F(1), Martín JJ, López del Amo MP, García L, Araújo-Santos JM, 
Epstein D.

Author information:
(1)Technological Innovation Group, Virgen del Rocío University Hospital, 
Seville, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: To compare the cost-effectiveness of a pharmacotherapy follow-up for 
elderly nursing home (NH) residents with that of usual care.
DESIGN: Prospective observational study with a concurrent control group 
conducted over 12 months.
SETTING: Fifteen NHs in Andalusia assigned to control (n = 6) or intervention (n 
= 9).
PARTICIPANTS: Residents aged 65 and older.
INTERVENTION: Pharmacotherapy follow-up.
MEASUREMENTS: Negative outcomes associated with medication, health-related 
quality of life, cost, quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). ICERs were estimated for three scenarios: 
unadjusted cost per QALY (first scenario), costs adjusted for baseline 
prescribed medication and QALYs adjusted for baseline utility score (second 
scenario), and costs and QALYs adjusted for a fuller set of baseline 
characteristics (third scenario).
RESULTS: Three hundred thirty-two elderly residents were enrolled: 122 in the 
control group and 210 in the intervention group. The general practitioner 
accepted 88.7% (274/309) of pharmacist recommendations. Pharmacist interventions 
reduced the average number of prescribed medication by 0.47 drugs (P < .001), 
whereas the average prescribed medication increased by 0.94 drugs in the control 
group (P < .001). Both groups reported a lower average EuroQol-5D utility score 
after 12 months (intervention, -0.0576, P = .002; control, -0.0999, P = .003). 
For the first scenario, usual care dominated pharmacotherapy follow-up (was less 
effective and more expensive). Adjusted ICERs were € 3,899/QALY ($5,002/QALY) 
for the second scenario and € 6,574/QALY ($8,433/QALY) for the third scenario. 
For a willingness to pay of € 30,000/QALY ($38,487/QALY), the probabilities of 
the pharmacotherapy follow-up being cost-effective were 35% for the first 
scenario, 78% for the second, and 76% for the third.
CONCLUSION: Pharmacotherapy follow-up is considered cost-effective for elderly 
NH residents in Spain.

© 2014, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2014, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.12890
PMID: 24891096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Rozhl Chir. 2014 May;93(5):282-6.

[Importance of interdisciplinary cooperation in multiple trauma management].

[Article in Czech]

Vyhnánek F.

Multiple trauma represents the most serious type of trauma in which the result 
of the treatment depends on the quality of pre-hospital care according to ATLS 
(Advanced Trauma Life Support) as well as on the availability of emergency 
specialized care in traumatology centres. Resuscitation in the early post-injury 
phase involves prevention of the lethal triad (hypothermia, acidosis, 
coagulopathy) development, as early as during pre-hospital care and also during 
admission to a traumatology department (damage control resuscitation). Damage 
control resuscitation involves permissive hypotension and coagulopathy 
correction with red blood cells (RBCs), fresh frozen plasma and platelets 
administration with crystalloid solutions restriction. Management in a 
traumatology centre involves : 1. Determining the sequence for treating each of 
the injuries step by step: a) control of external and intracavitary bleeding, b) 
operation for craniocerebral injuries, c) external fixation of fractures. 2. 
Phased management of intracavitary injuries (damage control surgery) and 
injuries of the extremities (damage control orthopaedics). 3. Non-operative 
management of solid organs injuries including radiointervention procedures. 4. 
Post-injury intensive care after the primary operation (treatment of the lethal 
triad). 5. Treatment regimen extension in craniocerebral injuries (stabilisation 
of cerebral perfusion pressure with sufficient oxygenation). 6. Modern 
therapeutic strategies in mechanical ventilation (protective, non-invasive 
ventilation). 7. Integration of new imaging methods such as MDCT (Multidetector 
Computed Tomography). Ensuring complex management in polytrauma treatment 
requires active cooperation of numerous clinical disciplines, already in the 
early post-injury period.

PMID: 24891246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. J Biol Chem. 2014 Aug 8;289(32):21909-25. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.561845. Epub
 2014 Jun 2.

Involvement of microRNAs in the regulation of muscle wasting during catabolic 
conditions.

Soares RJ(1), Cagnin S(2), Chemello F(2), Silvestrin M(2), Musaro A(3), De Pitta 
C(4), Lanfranchi G(5), Sandri M(6).

Author information:
(1)From the Dulbecco Telethon Institute, Venetian Institute of Molecular 
Medicine, 35129 Padova, Italy, the Ph.D. Programme in Experimental Biology and 
Biomedicine, Center for Neuroscience and Cell Biology, University of Coimbra, 
3004-517 Coimbra, Portugal.
(2)the Department of Biology and CRIBI Biotechnology Centre, University of 
Padova, 35121 Padova, Italy.
(3)the DAHFMO-Unit of Histology and Medical Embryology, Sapienza University, 
00161 Roma, Italy, and.
(4)the Department of Biology and CRIBI Biotechnology Centre, University of 
Padova, 35121 Padova, Italy, cristiano.depitta@unipd.it.
(5)the Department of Biology and CRIBI Biotechnology Centre, University of 
Padova, 35121 Padova, Italy, gerolamo.lanfranchi@unipd.it.
(6)From the Dulbecco Telethon Institute, Venetian Institute of Molecular 
Medicine, 35129 Padova, Italy, the Department of Biomedical Sciences and the 
Institute of Neuroscience, Consiglio Nazionale delle Ricerche, 35121 Padova, 
Italy, the Telethon Institute of Genetics and Medicine (TIGEM), 80131 Napoli, 
Italy marco.sandri@unipd.it.

Loss of muscle proteins and the consequent weakness has important clinical 
consequences in diseases such as cancer, diabetes, chronic heart failure, and in 
aging. In fact, excessive proteolysis causes cachexia, accelerates disease 
progression, and worsens life expectancy. Muscle atrophy involves a common 
pattern of transcriptional changes in a small subset of genes named 
atrophy-related genes or atrogenes. Whether microRNAs play a role in the atrophy 
program and muscle loss is debated. To understand the involvement of miRNAs in 
atrophy we performed miRNA expression profiling of mouse muscles under wasting 
conditions such as fasting, denervation, diabetes, and cancer cachexia. We found 
that the miRNA signature is peculiar of each catabolic condition. We then 
focused on denervation and we revealed that changes in transcripts and microRNAs 
expression did not occur simultaneously but were shifted. Indeed, whereas 
transcriptional control of the atrophy-related genes peaks at 3 days, changes of 
miRNA expression maximized at 7 days after denervation. Among the different 
miRNAs, microRNA-206 and -21 were the most induced in denervated muscles. We 
characterized their pattern of expression and defined their role in muscle 
homeostasis. Indeed, in vivo gain and loss of function experiments revealed that 
miRNA-206 and miRNA-21 were sufficient and required for atrophy program. In 
silico and in vivo approaches identified transcription factor YY1 and the 
translational initiator factor eIF4E3 as downstream targets of these miRNAs. 
Thus miRNAs are important for fine-tuning the atrophy program and their 
modulation can be a novel potential therapeutic approach to counteract muscle 
loss and weakness in catabolic conditions.

© 2014 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M114.561845
PMCID: PMC4139209
PMID: 24891504 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


379. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2013 Dec;37(6):509-15. doi:
10.1111/1753-6405.12116.

Divergent mortality trends by ethnicity in Fiji.

Taylor R, Carter K, Naidu S, Linhart C, Azim S, Rao C, Lopez AD.

OBJECTIVE: To examine trends in infant mortality rate (IMR), adult mortality and 
life expectancy (LE) in the two major Fijian ethnic groups since 1975.
METHODS: Estimates of IMR, adult mortality (15-59 years) and LE by ethnicity are 
calculated from previously unreported Fiji Ministry of Health data and extracted 
from published sources.
RESULTS: Over 1975-2008: IMR decreased from 33 to 20 deaths/1,000 live births in 
i-Taukei (Fiji Melanesians); and 38 to 18 in Fijians of Indian descent. 
Increased adult male mortality among i-Taukei and decline among Fijians of 
Indian descent led to an equal probability of dying in 2007 of 29%; while in 
female adults the probability trended upwards in i-Taukei to 25%, and declined 
in Fijians of Indian descent to 17%. Life expectancy in both ethnicities 
increased until 1985 (to 64 years for males; 68 for females) then forming a 
plateau in males of both ethnicities, and Fijian females of Indian descent, but 
declining in i-Taukei females to 66 years in 2007.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite IMR declines over 1975-2008, LE for i-Taukei and Fijians of 
Indian descent has not increased since 1985, and has actually decreased in 
i-Taukei women, consistent with trends in adult mortality (15-59 years). 
Mortality analyses in Fiji that consider the entire population mask divergent 
trends in the major ethnic groups. This situation is most likely a consequence 
of non-communicable disease mortality, requiring further assessment and a 
strengthened response.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-6405.12116
PMID: 24892148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. PLoS One. 2014 Jun 3;9(6):e98883. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098883.
eCollection  2014.

Construct and criterion validity of the Euro Qol-5D in patients with systemic 
lupus erythematosus.

Wang SL(1), Wu B(2), Zhu LA(3), Leng L(3), Bucala R(3), Lu LJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Ren Ji Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai 
Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Clinical Outcomes and Economics Group, Department of pharmacy, Ren Ji 
Hospital, School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(3)Department of Medicine, Section of Rheumatology, Yale University School of 
Medicine, The Anlyan Center, New Haven, Connecticut, United States of America.

OBJECTIVE: To investigate the construct and criterion validity of the Euro 
Qol-5D (EQ-5D), which allows quality-adjusted life-years to be calculated, in 
patients with systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE).
METHODS: Consecutive SLE patients who had been followed at the Renji Hospital, 
School of Medicine, Shanghai Jiao Tong University were recruited. 
Cross-sectional correlations of the EQ-5D with equivalent domains in 
disease-specific health-related quality of life (HRQoL), LupusQol, Systemic 
Lupus Erythematosus Disease Activity Index (SLEDAI) measures, the Systemic Lupus 
International Collaborating Clinics Damage Index (SDI), and patient 
characteristics were tested. Discriminant validity to assess the ability to 
distinguish between patients of different disease severity was assessed. There 
also were evaluations of ceiling and floor effects.
RESULTS: 240 patients were recruited in total. The EQ-5D correlated moderately 
to strongly with all domains of the LupusQoL (r: 0.44-0.7) apart from intimate 
relationships (r = 0.25) and body image (r = 0.18). There was moderate negative 
correlation between EQ-5D and clinical assessment of disease, SLEDAI (r = 
-0.589) and SDI (r = -0.509). When compared with equivalent domains on LupusQoL, 
there was good construct validity in EQ-5D (r: 0.631-0.812). EQ-5D could also 
discriminate patients with varied disease severity (according SLEDAI and SDI). 
There was no floor effect in EQ-5D but the ceiling effect remains strong (34%).
CONCLUSION: Our results provide sufficient evidence that the EQ-5D displays 
construct and criterion validity for use in SLE patients. Disease-specific 
measures of HRQoL used alongside may be a better choice.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0098883
PMCID: PMC4043925
PMID: 24892282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


381. Colomb Med (Cali). 2012 Jun 30;43(2):126-32. eCollection 2012 Apr.

Socio-demographic transformations and living conditions among two indigenous and 
black populations in Northern Cauca during the period of 1993-2005.

Urrea Giraldo F(1), Rodríguez Sánchez DA(2).

Author information:
(1)Sociologist, Full Professor, Department of Social Sciences, School of Social 
Sciences and Economics, Universidad del Valle, Cali, Colombia.
(2)Economist and sociology student in the Department of Social Sciences, School 
of Social Sciences and Economics, Universidad del Valle.

OBJECTIVES: To describe the changes that occurred in some patterns of 
socio-demographic variables and in living conditions among the Nasa, Guambiana 
and Afrocolombian populations in the northern region of the Department of Cauca, 
and those occurring in two residential communities, one white-mestizo and one 
black, in Cali during the 1993-2005 period.
METHODS: This paper presents a descriptive study that analyzes several 
socio-demographic indicators from the census of 1993 and 2005, the specific data 
include: rate of juvenile dependency; total masculinity index; average size of 
the household; specific global and local birth rates, and infant mortality 
rates; life expectancy at birth; average years of schooling; health cover age 
status; and percentage of the population with unmet basic needs (UBN). In this 
way, it is possible to note differences in the course of socio-demographic 
evolution and in the standard of living trends in the differing populations 
under study.
RESULTS: The Guambiana Indian population in the municipality of Silvia presents 
lower birth rates than the Nasa population, characterized by their seasonal 
birth rates. Differing from the pattern of the indigenous people of Northern 
Cauca, the Afro-Colombian population both from this region and from the 
population residing in the urban zones of Cali's tend to show similar 
socio-demographic patterns.
CONCLUSIONS: Although there have been profound changes recorded during this 
period among these populations under study, the ethnic-racial inequalities and 
those of social class seem to persist. From this first diagnosis, attention is 
called to the need for a more adequate reproductive health policy to attend the 
specific needs presented by the indigenous population.

Publisher: OBJETIVOS: Describir las transformaciones ocurridas en los patrones 
sociodemográficos y en las condiciones de vida de las poblaciones Nasa, 
Guambiana y afrocolombiana en el norte del departamento del Cauca, y la de dos 
sectores residenciales en Cali, uno blanco-mestizo y otro negro, durante el 
período 1993-2005.
MÉTODOS: Se trata de un estudio descriptivo a partir de los censos de población 
de 1993 y 2005, que analiza varios indicadores socio demográficos, procesando 
los microdatos censales: tasa de dependencia juvenil; índice total de 
masculinidad; tamaño promedio del hogar; tasas de fecundidad global y 
específicas, y de mortalidad infantil; esperanza de vida al nacer; promedio de 
años de estudio; cobertura en salud; y porcentaje de población con necesidades 
básicas insatisfechas. Así, es posible encontrar la existencia de diferencias 
notorias en la evolución sociodemográfica y en las condiciones de vida de las 
distintas poblaciones bajo análisis.
RESULTADOS: La población Guambiana del municipio de Silvia presenta tasas de 
fecundidad menores en comparación con la población Nasa, caracterizada por 
presentar tasas de fecundidad temprana. A diferencia de los pueblos indígenas 
norte caucanos, la población afrocolombiana de esta región y la residente en la 
zona urbana de Cali de clases populares negras tienden a presentar similares 
patrones sociodemográficos.
CONCLUSIONES: No obstante las profundas transformaciones registradas en este 
período entre estas poblaciones, las desigualdades étnico-raciales y de clase 
social parecieran persistir. A partir de este primer diagnóstico, se advierte la 
necesidad de una política de salud reproductiva más adecuada para las 
necesidades específicas que presenta la población indígena.

PMCID: PMC4001941
PMID: 24893053

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest: We declare that no 
conflict of interest exists with the supporting entity for completing this 
article.Nor is there an ethical problem involved as the empirical source of the 
study included microdata from two censuses (1993 and 2005) which lack individual 
identification and its use has been strictly academic.


382. IEEE Trans Nanobioscience. 2014 Jun;13(2):124-30. doi:
10.1109/TNB.2014.2320413.

Genealogical-based method for multiple ontology self-extension in MeSH.

Guo YW, Tang YT, Kao HY.

During the last decade, the advent of Ontologies used for biomedical annotation 
has had a deep impact on life science. MeSH is a well-known Ontology for the 
purpose of indexing journal articles in PubMed, improving literature searching 
on multi-domain topics. Since the explosion of data growth in recent years, 
there are new terms, concepts that weed through the old and bring forth the new. 
Automatically extending sets of existing terms will enable bio-curators to 
systematically improve text-based ontologies level by level. However, most of 
the related techniques which apply symbolic patterns based on a literature 
corpus tend to focus on more general but not specific parts of the ontology. 
Therefore, in this work, we present a novel method for utilizing genealogical 
information from Ontology itself to find suitable siblings for ontology 
extension. Based on the breadth and depth dimensions, the sibling generation 
stage and pruning strategy are proposed in our approach. As a result, on the 
average, the precision of the genealogical-based method achieved 0.5, with the 
best 0.83 performance of category "Organisms." We also achieve average precision 
0.69 of 229 new terms in MeSH 2013 version.

DOI: 10.1109/TNB.2014.2320413
PMID: 24893362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. S Afr Med J. 2014 Mar;104(3 Suppl 1):249-51. doi: 10.7196/samj.7700.

A brief history of South Africa's response to AIDS.

Simelela NP, Venter WD.

The story of the AIDS response in South Africa over the past 4 years is one of 
great progress after almost a decade of complex and tragic denialism that united 
the world and civil society in a way not seen since the opposition to apartheid. 
Today the country can boast > 2 million people on antiretroviral therapy, far 
and away the largest number in the world. Prevention efforts appear to be 
yielding results. The estimated number of annual new HIV infections declined by 
79 000 between 2011 and 2012. New HIV infections among adults aged 15-49 years 
are projected to decline by 48% by 2016, from 414,000 (2010) to -215,000 (2016). 
The national incidence rate has reached its lowest level since the disease was 
first declared an epidemic in 1992, translating into reductions in both infant 
and under-5 mortality and an increase in life expectancy from 56 to 60 years 
over the period 2009-2011 alone. This is largely thanks to a civil society 
movement that was prepared to pose a rights-based challenge to a governing party 
in denial, and to brave health officials, politicians and clinicians working in 
a hostile system to bring about change.

DOI: 10.7196/samj.7700
PMID: 24893502 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Health Promot Pract. 2015 Jan;16(1):101-8. doi: 10.1177/1524839914537274.
Epub  2014 Jun 3.

Cost-effectiveness of a community-based weight control intervention targeting a 
low-socioeconomic-status Mexican-origin population.

Wilson KJ(1), Brown HS 3rd(2), Bastida E(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Texas Health Science Center Houston, Austin, TX, USA 
kimberly.j.wilson@uth.tmc.edu.
(2)University of Texas Health Science Center Houston, Austin, TX, USA.
(3)Florida International University, Miami, FL, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The objective of our study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of a community-based intervention designed to improve physical activity levels 
and dietary intake and to reduce diabetes risk in a largely Hispanic population 
residing along the U.S.-Mexico border.
METHOD: We forecasted disease outcomes, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
gained, and lifetime costs associated with actual and projected attainment of 2% 
and 5% weight loss taking a societal cost perspective. We extrapolated changes 
in beverage calorie consumption between baseline and 6-month follow-up to attain 
projected weight loss measures. Outcomes were projected 5, 10, and 20 years into 
the future and discounted at a 3.0% rate.
RESULTS: The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $57,430 and $61,893, 
respectively, per QALY gained when compared with usual care for the 2% and 5% 
weight loss scenarios. The intervention was particularly cost-effective for 
morbidly obese participants. Cost-effectiveness improves when using 3-year 
weight loss projections based on changes in sugar-sweetened beverage caloric 
consumption to $49,478 and $24,092 for the 2% and 5% weight loss scenarios.
CONCLUSIONS: This analysis demonstrates that a culturally sensitive 
community-based weight loss and maintenance intervention can be cost-effective 
even when healthy weight individuals participate.

© 2014 Society for Public Health Education.

DOI: 10.1177/1524839914537274
PMID: 24893680 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. J Vis Exp. 2014 May 10;(87):51447. doi: 10.3791/51447.

Purification of the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator protein 
expressed in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Pollock N(1), Cant N(1), Rimington T(1), Ford RC(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester.
(2)Faculty of Life Sciences, University of Manchester; 
bob.ford@manchester.ac.uk.

Defects in the cystic fibrosis transmembrane conductance regulator (CFTR) 
protein cause cystic fibrosis (CF), an autosomal recessive disease that 
currently limits the average life expectancy of sufferers to <40 years of age. 
The development of novel drug molecules to restore the activity of CFTR is an 
important goal in the treatment CF, and the isolation of functionally active 
CFTR is a useful step towards achieving this goal. We describe two methods for 
the purification of CFTR from a eukaryotic heterologous expression system, S. 
cerevisiae. Like prokaryotic systems, S. cerevisiae can be rapidly grown in the 
lab at low cost, but can also traffic and posttranslationally modify large 
membrane proteins. The selection of detergents for solubilization and 
purification is a critical step in the purification of any membrane protein. 
Having screened for the solubility of CFTR in several detergents, we have chosen 
two contrasting detergents for use in the purification that allow the final CFTR 
preparation to be tailored to the subsequently planned experiments. In this 
method, we provide comparison of the purification of CFTR in 
dodecyl-β-D-maltoside (DDM) and 
1-tetradecanoyl-sn-glycero-3-phospho-(1'-rac-glycerol) (LPG-14). Protein 
purified in DDM by this method shows ATPase activity in functional assays. 
Protein purified in LPG-14 shows high purity and yield, can be employed to study 
post-translational modifications, and can be used for structural methods such as 
small-angle X-ray scattering and electron microscopy. However it displays 
significantly lower ATPase activity.

DOI: 10.3791/51447
PMCID: PMC4181556
PMID: 24893839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. BJOG. 2014 Dec;121(13):1720-8. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.12897. Epub 2014 Jun
3.

The incidence and implications of cerebral palsy following potentially avoidable 
obstetric complications: a preliminary burden of disease study.

Leigh S(1), Granby P, Turner M, Wieteska S, Haycox A, Collins B.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Health Economics, Management School, University of Liverpool, 
Liverpool, UK; Lifecode®, the Old Vicarage, Lindley, Huddersfield, UK.

OBJECTIVE: To determine the extent of cerebral palsy attributable to adverse 
obstetric events, and estimate the lifetime mortality and morbidity expectations 
of these individuals relative to age-matched members of the UK general 
population.
DESIGN: Simulation model.
SETTING UK POPULATION: All projected live births during 2014.
METHODS: Using published data regarding the incidence and aetiology of cerebral 
palsy, we simulated the outcomes of a hypothetical cohort of UK live births. 
Survival and quality of life (QoL) for those with cerebral palsy were compared 
with age-matched individuals representative of the UK general population, in 
order to estimate the number of quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) lost 
following asphyxia-related cerebral palsy.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Incidence of asphyxia-related cerebral palsy, QALYS, QoL, 
and survival.
RESULTS: A total of 207 (95% CI 169-245) cases of asphyxia-related cerebral 
palsy were projected amongst UK children born during the year 2014, with 
approximately 15.2 QALYs lost per case. If these results held true in a real 
birth cohort, 3142 (95% CI 2321-3963) QALYs would be lost as a consequence of 
asphyxia-related cerebral palsy, a loss valued by the UK National Health Service 
at £62.9 m (95% CI £46.4-79.3 m).
CONCLUSIONS: Cerebral palsy following intrapartum asphyxiation leads to 
significant reductions in QoL and survival; however, this may often be 
prevented. For those with GMFCS 1 and GMFCS 2 cerebral palsy (Gross Motor 
Function Classification System), lifetime QALYs accrued largely resemble those 
experienced by the UK general population, whereas for GMFCS 3 and GMFCS 4 QALYs 
are reduced considerably, and are negative in the case of GMFCS 5.
