agents. Optimal dosing of antifungals is one of the few factors clinicians can 
control to improve outcomes of IFD. However, dosing in children cannot be 
extrapolated from adult data because IFD pathophysiology, immune response, and 
drug disposition differ from adults. We critically examined the literature on 
pharmacokinetics (PK) and pharmacodynamics (PD) of antifungal agents and 
highlight recent developments in treating pediatric IFD. To match adult exposure 
in pediatric patients, dosing adjustment is necessary for almost all 
antifungals. In young infants, the maturation of renal and metabolic functions 
occurs rapidly and can significantly influence drug exposure. Fluconazole 
clearance doubles from birth to 28 days of life and, beyond the neonatal period, 
agents such as fluconazole, voriconazole, and micafungin require higher dosing 
than in adults because of faster clearance in children. As a result, dosing 
recommendations are specific to bracketed ranges of age. PD principles of 
antifungals mostly rely on in vitro and in vivo models but very few PD studies 
specifically address IFD in children. The exposure-response relationship may 
differ in younger children compared with adults, especially in infants with 
invasive candidiasis who are at higher risk of disseminated disease and 
meningoencephalitis, and by extension severe neurodevelopmental impairment. 
Micafungin is the only antifungal agent for which a specific target of exposure 
was proposed based on a neonatal hematogenous Candida meningoencephalitis animal 
model. In this review, we found that pediatric data on drug disposition of newer 
triazoles and echinocandins are lacking, dosing of older antifungals such as 
fluconazole and amphotericin B products still need optimization in young 
infants, and that target PK/PD indices need to be clinically validated for 
almost all antifungals in children. A better understanding of age-specific PK 
and PD of new antifungals in infants and children will help improve clinical 
outcomes of IFD by informing dosing and identifying future research areas.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-014-0227-3
PMCID: PMC4073603
PMID: 24872147 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Patient. 2014;7(4):365-86. doi: 10.1007/s40271-014-0063-2.

A systematic review of stated preference studies reporting public preferences 
for healthcare priority setting.

Whitty JA(1), Lancsar E, Rixon K, Golenko X, Ratcliffe J.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Pharmacy Australia Centre of Excellence, The University 
of Queensland, 20 Cornwall Street, Woolloongabba, Brisbane, QLD, 4102, 
Australia, j.whitty@uq.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: There is current interest in incorporating weights based on public 
preferences for health and healthcare into priority-setting decisions.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this systematic review was to explore the extent to which 
public preferences and trade-offs for priority-setting criteria have been 
quantified, and to describe the study contexts and preference elicitation 
methods employed.
METHODS: A systematic review was performed in April 2013 to identify empirical 
studies eliciting the stated preferences of the public for the provision of 
healthcare in a priority-setting context. Studies are described in terms of (i) 
the stated preference approaches used, (ii) the priority-setting levels and 
contexts, and (iii) the criteria identified as important and their relative 
importance.
RESULTS: Thirty-nine studies applying 40 elicitation methods reported in 41 
papers met the inclusion criteria. The discrete choice experiment method was 
most commonly applied (n = 18, 45.0 %), but other approaches, including 
contingent valuation and the person trade-off, were also used. Studies 
prioritised health systems (n = 4, 10.2 %), 
policies/programmes/services/interventions (n = 16, 41.0 %), or patient groups 
(n = 19, 48.7 %). Studies generally confirmed the importance of a wide range of 
process, non-health and patient-related characteristics in priority setting in 
selected contexts, alongside health outcomes. However, inconsistencies were 
observed for the relative importance of some prioritisation criteria, suggesting 
context and/or elicitation approach matter.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, findings suggest caution in directly incorporating public 
preferences as weights for priority setting unless the methods used to elicit 
the weights can be shown to be appropriate and robust in the priority-setting 
context.

DOI: 10.1007/s40271-014-0063-2
PMID: 24872225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2014 May 28;106(6):dju092. doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju092.
Print  2014 Jun.

Benefits, harms, and costs for breast cancer screening after US implementation 
of digital mammography.

Stout NK(1), Lee SJ(2), Schechter CB(2), Kerlikowske K(2), Alagoz O(2), Berry 
D(2), Buist DS(2), Cevik M(2), Chisholm G(2), de Koning HJ(2), Huang H(2), 
Hubbard RA(2), Miglioretti DL(2), Munsell MF(2), Trentham-Dietz A(2), van 
Ravesteyn NT(2), Tosteson AN(2), Mandelblatt JS(2).

Author information:
(1)Affiliations of authors: Department of Population Medicine, Harvard Medical 
School and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care Institute, Boston, MA (NKS); Department 
of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
Boston, MA (SJL, HH); Departments of Family & Social Medicine and Epidemiology & 
Population Health, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY (CBS); 
Departments of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, and General Internal Medicine 
Section, Department of Veterans Affairs, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA (KK); Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering (OA, MC) 
and Department of Population Health Sciences and Carbone Cancer Center (OA, 
AT-D), University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI; Department of Biostatistics, 
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX (DB, GC, MFM); Group 
Health Research Institute, Seattle, WA (DSMB, RAH); Department of Public Health, 
Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands (HJdK, NTvR); Department of Public Health 
Sciences, School of Medicine, University of California, Davis, California (DLM); 
Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice, Geisel School of 
Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon, NH (ANAT); Department of Oncology, Georgetown 
University Medical Center and Cancer Prevention and Control Program, Lombardi 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Washington, DC (JSM). 
natasha_stout@hms.harvard.edu.
(2)Affiliations of authors: Department of Population Medicine, Harvard Medical 
School and Harvard Pilgrim Health Care Institute, Boston, MA (NKS); Department 
of Biostatistics and Computational Biology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, 
Boston, MA (SJL, HH); Departments of Family & Social Medicine and Epidemiology & 
Population Health, Albert Einstein College of Medicine, Bronx, NY (CBS); 
Departments of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, and General Internal Medicine 
Section, Department of Veterans Affairs, University of California, San 
Francisco, CA (KK); Department of Industrial and Systems Engineering (OA, MC) 
and Department of Population Health Sciences and Carbone Cancer Center (OA, 
AT-D), University of Wisconsin, Madison, WI; Department of Biostatistics, 
University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer Center, Houston, TX (DB, GC, MFM); Group 
Health Research Institute, Seattle, WA (DSMB, RAH); Department of Public Health, 
Erasmus MC, Rotterdam, The Netherlands (HJdK, NTvR); Department of Public Health 
Sciences, School of Medicine, University of California, Davis, California (DLM); 
Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice, Geisel School of 
Medicine at Dartmouth, Lebanon, NH (ANAT); Department of Oncology, Georgetown 
University Medical Center and Cancer Prevention and Control Program, Lombardi 
Comprehensive Cancer Center, Washington, DC (JSM).

Comment in
    doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju125.

BACKGROUND: Compared with film, digital mammography has superior sensitivity but 
lower specificity for women aged 40 to 49 years and women with dense breasts. 
Digital has replaced film in virtually all US facilities, but overall population 
health and cost from use of this technology are unclear.
METHODS: Using five independent models, we compared digital screening strategies 
starting at age 40 or 50 years applied annually, biennially, or based on density 
with biennial film screening from ages 50 to 74 years and with no screening. 
Common data elements included cancer incidence and test performance, both 
modified by breast density. Lifetime outcomes included mortality, 
quality-adjusted life-years, and screening and treatment costs.
RESULTS: For every 1000 women screened biennially from age 50 to 74 years, 
switching to digital from film yielded a median within-model improvement of 2 
life-years, 0.27 additional deaths averted, 220 additional false-positive 
results, and $0.35 million more in costs. For an individual woman, this 
translates to a health gain of 0.73 days. Extending biennial digital screening 
to women ages 40 to 49 years was cost-effective, although results were sensitive 
to quality-of-life decrements related to screening and false positives. 
Targeting annual screening by density yielded similar outcomes to targeting by 
age. Annual screening approaches could increase costs to $5.26 million per 1000 
women, in part because of higher numbers of screens and false positives, and 
were not efficient or cost-effective.
CONCLUSIONS: The transition to digital breast cancer screening in the United 
States increased total costs for small added health benefits. The value of 
digital mammography screening among women aged 40 to 49 years depends on women's 
preferences regarding false positives.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/dju092
PMCID: PMC4067109
PMID: 24872543 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. J Environ Health Sci Eng. 2014 Apr 23;12:73. doi: 10.1186/2052-336X-12-73. 
eCollection 2014.

Human health risk analysis from disinfection by-products (DBPs) in drinking and 
bathing water of some Indian cities.

Mishra BK(1), Gupta SK(1), Sinha A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Indian School of Mines, 
Dhanbad 826004, India.

BACKGROUND: Human health risk assessment from exposure to disinfection 
by-products (DBPs) during drinking and bathing water vary from country to 
country as per life expectancy, body mass index, water consumption pattern and 
individual concentration of DBPs component, etc.
METHODS: Present study considered average direct water intake per person for 
adult males and females as 4 & 3 L/day, respectively as per Indian literature 
for risk evaluation from another component of pollutant. While other important 
factor like average life expectancy, body weight & body surface area for male 
and female were considered 64 & 67 years, 51.9 & 45.4 Kg and 1.54 & 1.38 m(2) 
respectively as per Indian Council of Medical Research and WHO report. The 
corresponding lifetime cancer risk of the formed THMs to human beings was 
estimated by the USEPA and IRIS method as per Indian population.
RESULTS: The total cancer risk reached 8.99 E-04 and 8.92 E-04 for males and 
females, respectively, the highest risk from THMs seems to be from the 
inhalation route followed by ingestion and dermal contacts.
CONCLUSIONS: The multipath way evaluations of lifetime cancer risks for THMs 
exposure through ingestion, dermal absorption, and inhalation exposure were 
examined at the highest degree of danger. Results reveals that water containing 
THMs of the selected water treatment plant of the eastern part of India was 
unsafe in terms of risk evaluation through inhalation and ingestion, while 
dermal route of risk was found very close to permissible limit of USEPA. 
Sensitivity analysis shows that every input parameter is sole responsible for 
total risk potential, whereas exposure duration playing important role for 
estimation of total risk.

DOI: 10.1186/2052-336X-12-73
PMCID: PMC4020354
PMID: 24872885


322. Harv Health Lett. 2014 Apr;39(6):8.

Sit more, live less, warn Harvard researchers.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 24873013 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Recenti Prog Med. 2014 May;105(5):181-3. doi: 10.1701/1493.16447.

[Access to cancer care: the cost of treatment matters].

[Article in Italian]

Tirelli U.

The approval of new antiviral agents and the wide-ranging costs of ophthalmic 
therapies with comparable efficacy have renewed the debate over the 
cost-effectiveness of novel drugs. In oncology, more expensive treatments do not 
always substantially change the outcome of the disease, but they merely prolong 
life expectancy by a few weeks even at the cost of significant side effects. 
Treatment costs are a key factor the physician should consider when sharing care 
decisions with the patient. In addition, fund allocation for purchasing high 
cost medications results in limited investment in clinical research and human 
resources - doctors, nurses and other healthcare staff - that play a central 
role in patient care. Regulatory agencies should be more demanding, reimbursing 
pharmaceutical companies on the basis of treatment outcome.

DOI: 10.1701/1493.16447
PMID: 24873939 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Recenti Prog Med. 2014 May;105(5):191-7. doi: 10.1701/1493.16453.

[Population ageing and health implication. Thinking time trends in 
Emilia-Romagna Region].

[Article in Italian]

Mazzocchetti A, Caranci N, Addis A.

Ageing is doubtless a factor characterizing population in Europe, and 
particularly in Emilia-Romagna, a north-east Italian region of about 4,5 million 
people. From 1990 to 2010 life expectancy in Emilia-Romagna has grown by about 6 
years for men and 5 for women. At the same time good health life expectancy has 
grown even more rapidly, particularly among women. While it is expected that in 
2030 the number of over-65s will have exceeded one million people, the trends in 
good health life expectancy is not granted. Strengthen actions aimed at 
increasing good health conditions promotes ageing sustainability and can feed 
the positive trend observed for the life expectancy in good health. The 
Emilia-Romagna Region takes up the demographic challenge of the coming years in 
the European context and promotes strategies for active and healthy ageing, 
working on prevention in its broadest sense and for the entire life span, with 
the aim of actively contribute to the achievement of the EU2020 target of an 
increase of two years in life expectancy in good health of European citizens.

DOI: 10.1701/1493.16453
PMID: 24873942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


325. Tumour Biol. 2014 Sep;35(9):8771-9. doi: 10.1007/s13277-014-2139-y. Epub
2014  May 30.

The addition of mifamurtide to chemotherapy improves lifetime effectiveness in 
children with osteosarcoma: a Markov model analysis.

Song HJ(1), Lee EK, Lee JA, Kim HL, Jang KW.

Author information:
(1)School of Pharmacy, Sungkyunkwan University, 2066 Seobu-ro, Jangan-gu, Suwon, 
Gyeonggi-do, 440-746, Republic of Korea.

In the absence of long-term clinical trials that compare mifamurtide plus 
chemotherapy versus chemotherapy only for treatment of osteosarcoma, decision 
analysis is a useful tool that helps to determine the optimal treatment 
strategy. We analyzed the differences between mifamurtide plus chemotherapy 
versus chemotherapy only by using modeling to determine the treatment approach 
that results in longer life expectancy among children with osteosarcoma. We used 
the Markov model to compare the expected lifetime quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) between mifamurtide plus chemotherapy versus chemotherapy only. Our 
target cohort consisted of children with osteosarcoma. The starting age of the 
cohort was 12 years and cycle length was 3 months. The transition probabilities 
for each disease state and death were calculated using overall survival or 
progression free survival data from randomized controlled trials. Utility 
weights from scenario-based survey for 303 Korean general populations were 
applied to the model. Based on the base case analysis, the incremental benefit 
analysis indicated that mifamurtide plus chemotherapy resulted in an incremental 
QALY increase of 1.57 (a relative increase of 16.3 % in QALY expectancy) 
compared to chemotherapy only. Also, the incremental life years gained (LYG) 
from mifamurtide plus chemotherapy was 1.96 on comparison with chemotherapy 
only; this is a relative increase of 15.7 % in LYG expectancy. The decision 
analysis model indicated that mifamurtide plus chemotherapy was associated with 
a substantially longer survival than chemotherapy only among children with 
osteosarcoma during their lifetime.

DOI: 10.1007/s13277-014-2139-y
PMID: 24874050 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Khirurgiia (Mosk). 2014;(5):21-7.

[Bronchopulmonary ACTH-producing tumors].

[Article in Russian]

Pikunov MIu, Kuznetsov NS, Latkina NV, Dobreva EA, Remizov OV.

Neuroendocrine tumors have the ability to produce the hormones and vasoactive 
peptides. Excess of these hormones leads to different symptoms and syndromes 
because of organs' injuries. Detection of ACTH origin by using of modern 
diagnostic methods is not always possible. Lungs and bronchi are one of the most 
frequent localization of ACTH-producing tumors. It is considered that carcinoids 
with bronchopulmonary localization like a benign tumors in the clinical course. 
But at the same time carcinoid tends to metastasize, so timely diagnostics and 
treatment improve quality of life significant and increase the life expectancy 
of patients. The modern state of diagnostics and surgical treatment problem of 
ACTH-producing tumors with bronchopulmonary localization is presented in the 
article. It was described the brief historical background, clinical symptoms, 
instrumental and biochemical methods of diagnosis. The principles of surgical 
treatment are presented in the article.

PMID: 24874220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Khirurgiia (Mosk). 2014;(5):37-41.

[Long-term results of surgical treatment of patients with cancer of 
biliopancreaticoduodenal area].

[Article in Russian]

Klimov AE, Gaboian AS, Lebedev NV, Barkhudarov AA, Persov MIu.

500 patients with cancer of biliopancreaticoduodenal area who underwent 
treatment and survey in the hospital at the period from 1986 to December 2011 
years were included in the study. There were 212 (42.4%) males and 288 (57.6%) 
females. It was analyzed the long-term results of palliative surgical 
interventions in 72 (40.2%) patients and endoscopic interventions in 107 (65.2%) 
patients. It was done a comparative analysis of palliative interventions 
results. It was concluded that both methods have high efficiency for resolution 
of obstructive jaundice. Average survival rate of patients depends on the 
biliary decompression method (8 months after surgical interventions and 7 months 
after endoscopic interventions). It was analyzed the long-term results of 
radical surgery in 55 (78.5%) patients. It was concluded that the best 5-years 
survival rate was in patients with major papilla cancer without invasion into 
mesenterical vessels (54.2%). 5-years survival rate was observed only in 2 
patients in case of pancreatic head and terminal bile duct cancer. And lifetime 
of the majority did not exceed 3 years.

PMID: 24874222 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. J Crohns Colitis. 2014 Nov;8(11):1407-16. doi: 10.1016/j.crohns.2014.04.012.
 Epub 2014 May 27.

Long-term safety and efficacy of adalimumab in Japanese patients with moderate 
to severe Crohn's disease.

Watanabe M(1), Hibi T(2), Mostafa NM(3), Chao J(3), Arora V(3), Camez A(4), 
Petersson J(5), Thakkar R(3).

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Medical and Dental University, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: 
mamoru.gast@tmd.ac.jp.
(2)Kitasato University, Kitasato Institute Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)AbbVie Inc., North Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)AbbVie Deutschland GmbH & Co. KG, Ludwigshafen, Germany.
(5)AbbVie Inc., Rungis, France.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Adalimumab has been shown to be effective and well 
tolerated in patients with Crohn's disease. This analysis reports the results of 
a cohort of Japanese patients with moderate to severe Crohn's disease who were 
evaluated for up to 3years to assess the long-term use of adalimumab.
METHODS: The study consisted of a double-blind part and an open-label part. 
Patients were included either in the 52-week double-blind, placebo-controlled 
part of the study followed by a 96-week open-label extension or in the 
open-label part from the beginning or in the event of a flare. Patients were 
treated with adalimumab and evaluated for up to 148weeks as 3 data cohorts: the 
all-adalimumab cohort (patients receiving ≥1 injection of adalimumab), the 
148-week follow-up subcohort (patients who completed 148weeks of follow-up after 
the first adalimumab dose), and the dose-escalation subcohort (patients 
receiving adalimumab doses that increased to 80mg every other week).
RESULTS: In the all-adalimumab cohort (n=79), clinical remission rates were 
approximately 30% after 36weeks of exposure to adalimumab and for the remainder 
of the study (35%, 33%, and 28% for weeks 48, 108, and 144, respectively). An 
improvement in quality of life was also maintained over the same period. In the 
dose-escalation subcohort (n=40), the clinical remission rate was 75% (6/8) 
48weeks after dose escalation. Adalimumab was tolerated, and no deaths were 
reported.
CONCLUSIONS: Adalimumab is effective for maintaining long-term clinical 
remission in Japanese patients with moderate to severe Crohn's disease 
(NCT00445432).

Copyright © 2014 European Crohn's and Colitis Organisation. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.crohns.2014.04.012
PMID: 24874893 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


329. Health Technol Assess. 2014 May;18(36):1-274, vii-viii. doi:
10.3310/hta18360.

Randomised controlled trial and health economic evaluation of the impact of 
diagnostic testing for influenza, respiratory syncytial virus and Streptococcus 
pneumoniae infection on the management of acute admissions in the elderly and 
high-risk 18- to 64-year-olds.

Nicholson KG(1), Abrams KR(2), Batham S(1), Medina MJ(1), Warren FC(3), Barer 
M(4), Bermingham A(5), Clark TW(1), Latimer N(6), Fraser M(7), Perera N(7), 
Rajakumar K(4), Zambon M(5).

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Unit, Vaccine Evaluation Centre, University Hospitals of 
Leicester NHS Trust and Department of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, 
University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester Medical 
School, Leicester, UK.
(3)Peninsula College of Medicine and Dentistry, University of Exeter, Exeter, 
UK.
(4)Department of Infection, Immunity and Inflammation, University of Leicester, 
Leicester, UK.
(5)Health Protection Agency, Centre for Infections, London, UK.
(6)Health Economics and Decision Science (HEDS), School of Health and Related 
Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(7)Department of Microbiology, University Hospitals of Leicester NHS Trust, 
Leicester, UK.

BACKGROUND: Western industrialised nations face a large increase in the number 
of older people. People over the age of 60 years account for almost half of the 
16.8 million hospital admissions in England from 2009 to 2010. During 2009-10, 
respiratory infections accounted for approximately 1 in 30 hospital admissions 
and 1 in 20 of the 51.5 million bed-days.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the diagnostic accuracy and clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of rapid molecular and near-patient diagnostic tests for 
influenza, respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) and Streptococcus pneumoniae 
infections in comparison with traditional laboratory culture.
METHODS: We carried out a randomised controlled trial (RCT) to evaluate impact 
on prescribing and clinical outcomes of point-of-care tests (POCTs) for 
influenza A and B and pneumococcal infection, reverse transcriptase-polymerase 
chain reaction (RT-PCR) tests for influenza A and B and RSV A and B, and 
conventional culture for these pathogens. We evaluated diagnostic accuracy of 
POCTs for influenza and pneumococcal infection, RT-PCR for influenza and sputum 
culture for S. pneumoniae using samples collected during the RCT. We did a 
systematic review and meta-analysis of POCTs for influenza A and B. We evaluated 
ease and speed of use of each test, process outcomes and cost-effectiveness.
RESULTS: There was no evidence of association between diagnostic group and 
prescribing or clinical outcomes. Using PCR as 'gold standard', Quidel Influenza 
A + B POCT detected 24.4% [95% confidence interval (CI) 16.0% to 34.6%] of 
influenza infections (specificity 99.7%, 95% CI 99.2% to 99.9%); viral culture 
detected 21.6% (95% CI 13.5% to 31.6%; specificity 99.8%, 95% CI 99.4% to 100%). 
Using blood culture as 'gold standard', BinaxNOW pneumococcal POCT detected 
57.1% (95% CI 18.4% to 90.1%) of pneumococcal infections (specificity 92.5%; 95% 
CI 90.6% to 94.1%); sputum culture detected 100% (95% CI 2.5% to 100%; 
specificity 97.2%, 95% CI 94.3% to 98.9%). Overall, pooled estimates of 
sensitivity and specificity of POCTs for influenza from the literature were 74% 
(95% CI 67% to 80%) and 99% (95% CI 98% to 99%), respectively. Median intervals 
from specimen collection to test result were 15 minutes [interquartile range 
(IQR) 10-23 minutes) for Quidel Influenza A + B POCT, 20 minutes (IQR 15-30 
minutes) for BinaxNOW pneumococcal POCT, 50.8 hours (IQR 44.3-92.6 hours) for 
semi-nested conventional PCR, 29.2 hours (IQR 26-46.9 hours) for real-time PCR, 
629.6 hours (IQR 262.5-846.7 hours) for culture of influenza and 84.4 hours (IQR 
70.7-137.8 hours) and 71.4 hours (IQR 69.15-84.0 hours) for culture of S. 
pneumoniae in blood and sputum, respectively. Both POCTs were rated 
straightforward and undemanding; blood culture was moderately complex and all 
other tests were complex. Costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) of each 
diagnostic strategy were similar. Incrementally, PCR was most cost-effective 
(78.3% probability at a willingness to pay of £20,000/QALY). Few patients were 
admitted within a timescale conducive to treatment with a neuraminidase 
inhibitor according to National Institute for Health and Care Excellence 
guidance.
LIMITATIONS: The accuracy study was limited by inadequate gold standards.
CONCLUSIONS: All tests had limitations. We found no evidence that POCTs for 
influenza or S. pneumoniae, or PCR for influenza or RSV influenced antimicrobial 
prescribing or clinical outcomes. The total costs and QALYs of each diagnostic 
strategy were similar, although, incrementally, PCR was the most cost-effective 
strategy. The analysis does not support routine use of POCTs for either 
influenza or pneumococcal antigen for adults presenting with acute 
cardiopulmonary conditions, but suggests that conventional viral culture for 
clinical diagnosis should be replaced by PCR.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Current Controlled Trials ISRCTN21521552.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the NIHR Health Technology Assessment 
programme and will be published in full in Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 
18, No. 36. See the NIHR Journals Library website for further project 
information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta18360
PMCID: PMC4781605
PMID: 24875092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Eye (Lond). 2014 Aug;28(8):974-9. doi: 10.1038/eye.2013.294. Epub 2014 May
30.

Portsmouth visual field database: an audit of glaucoma progression.

Kirwan JF(1), Hustler A(1), Bobat H(1), Toms L(1), Crabb DP(2), McNaught AI(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Queen Alexandra Hospital, Portsmouth, UK.
(2)Department of Optometry and Visual Science, City University London, London, 
UK.
(3)Ophthalmology Department, Gloucestershire Hospitals NHS Foundation Trust, 
Cheltenham General Hospital, Cheltenham, UK.

AIM: To explore visual field (VF) progression in a cohort of secondary 
care-treated glaucoma and ocular hypertensive (OHT) patients.
METHODS: We extracted VFs from our database drawn from our normal clinical 
practice. VF series from 4177 eyes from 2208 patients who had five or more VFs 
were obtained, the 'better' eye was selected and the rate of VF progression was 
calculated using mean deviation (MD) data.
RESULTS: The median rate of progression for the whole sample was -0.1 dB/year 
(interquartile range (IQR) -4 to 0 dB/year) over a median of 6.7 years (IQR 
4.9-8.7). Of 2208 patients, 477 (21.2%) progressed at > -0.5 dB/year; 46 (2.1%) 
progressed at >-2.0 dB/year. Of those with a 'final MD' of worse than -10 dB 
(N=244) in their better eye; 14.0% were 'fast progressors' (>-2 dB/year), 33.7% 
'moderate progressors' (-1 to -2 dB/year), and 28.8% 'slow progressors' (-0.3 dB 
to -1 dB/year). Of those with 'initial MD' better than -3 dB and those with 
worse than -3 dB, 31/1679 (1.8%) and 213/529 (40.3%) respectively, had a final 
MD of worse than -10 dB.
CONCLUSION: Fast progressors, while important, are relatively rare. Moderate and 
slow progressors make up the majority of the progressing population within this 
data set. The risk of significant visual loss is much higher in those with 
initial damage. With increasing life expectancy, moderate and slow progressors 
may become increasingly clinically important.

DOI: 10.1038/eye.2013.294
PMCID: PMC4135248
PMID: 24875227 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Nucleic Acids Res. 2014 Jun;42(11):7409-20. doi: 10.1093/nar/gku314. Epub
2014  May 29.

The strength of the template effect attracting nucleotides to naked DNA.

Kervio E(1), Claasen B(1), Steiner UE(2), Richert C(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Organic Chemistry, University of Stuttgart, 70569 Stuttgart, 
Germany.
(2)Fachbereich Chemie, Universität Konstanz, 78457 Konstanz, Germany.
(3)Institute for Organic Chemistry, University of Stuttgart, 70569 Stuttgart, 
Germany lehrstuhl-2@oc.uni-stuttgart.de.

The transmission of genetic information relies on Watson-Crick base pairing 
between nucleoside phosphates and template bases in template-primer complexes. 
Enzyme-free primer extension is the purest form of the transmission process, 
without any chaperon-like effect of polymerases. This simple form of copying of 
sequences is intimately linked to the origin of life and provides new 
opportunities for reading genetic information. Here, we report the dissociation 
constants for complexes between (deoxy)nucleotides and template-primer 
complexes, as determined by nuclear magnetic resonance and the inhibitory effect 
of unactivated nucleotides on enzyme-free primer extension. Depending on the 
sequence context, Kd's range from 280 mM for thymidine monophosphate binding to 
a terminal adenine of a hairpin to 2 mM for a deoxyguanosine monophosphate 
binding in the interior of a sequence with a neighboring strand. Combined with 
rate constants for the chemical step of extension and hydrolytic inactivation, 
our quantitative theory explains why some enzyme-free copying reactions are 
incomplete while others are not. For example, for GMP binding to ribonucleic 
acid, inhibition is a significant factor in low-yielding reactions, whereas for 
amino-terminal DNA hydrolysis of monomers is critical. Our results thus provide 
a quantitative basis for enzyme-free copying.

© The Author(s) 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gku314
PMCID: PMC4066754
PMID: 24875480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2014 Oct;134(4):908-915.e3. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaci.2014.04.009. Epub 2014 May 27.

Economic and health effect of full adherence to controller therapy in adults 
with uncontrolled asthma: a simulation study.

Zafari Z(1), Lynd LD(2), FitzGerald JM(3), Sadatsafavi M(4).

Author information:
(1)Collaboration for Outcomes Research and Evaluation, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; 
Centre for Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluation, Vancouver Coastal Health 
Institute, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(2)Collaboration for Outcomes Research and Evaluation, Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; 
Centre for Health Evaluation and Outcomes Sciences, Providence Health Research 
Institute, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada.
(3)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluation, Vancouver Coastal Health 
Institute, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Institute for Heart and Lung 
Health (IHLH), Faculty of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(4)Centre for Clinical Epidemiology and Evaluation, Vancouver Coastal Health 
Institute, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; Institute for Heart and Lung 
Health (IHLH), Faculty of Medicine, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada. Electronic address: msafavi@mail.ubc.ca.

Comment in
    J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2014 Oct;134(4):916.

BACKGROUND: Adherence to evidence-based controller treatments for asthma is 
disappointingly low in many jurisdictions. Quantifying the burden associated 
with suboptimal adherence in patients with uncontrolled asthma will help 
establish the priorities for policymakers.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to quantify the benefits in the United States of improving 
adherence to controller therapies in adults with uncontrolled asthma in terms of 
health care costs and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs).
METHODS: A Markov model of asthma was created to simulate the effect of 
treatment with controller medications on asthma control and exacerbations over a 
10-year time horizon. Health care costs and QALYs associated with the current 
level of adherence (status quo) were compared with a hypothetical scenario in 
which each patient with uncontrolled asthma at baseline will be fully adherent 
to an evidence-based controller therapy (the full-adherence scenario). We also 
evaluated the cost-effectiveness of adherence interventions as a function of 
their costs and improvement in the adherence.
RESULTS: The status quo level of asthma management was associated with $2,786 
costs and 7.55 QALYs over 10 years, whereas the corresponding values for the 
full-adherence scenario were $5,973 and 7.68, respectively. Consequently, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of the full-adherence versus the status quo 
was $24,515/QALY. To be cost-effective, a program that improves adherence by 50% 
should cost less than $130 ($450) per person annually at a willingness-to-pay 
value of $50,000/QALY ($100,000/QALY). Inclusion of productivity loss in the 
analysis resulted in the full-adherence scenario being cost-saving.
CONCLUSION: Considering the extent of suboptimal adherence, our study shows that 
attempts in improving adherence to evidence-based therapies in patients with 
uncontrolled asthma can be associated with significant return on investment.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2014.04.009
PMID: 24875619 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Disabil Rehabil Assist Technol. 2016;11(3):241-6. doi: 
10.3109/17483107.2014.921939. Epub 2014 May 29.

Measuring static seated pressure distributions and risk for skin pressure 
ulceration in ice sledge hockey players.

Darrah SD(1)(2), Dicianno BE(1)(2)(3)(4), Berthold J(1)(2), McCoy A(1)(2)(5), 
Haas M(1)(2)(6), Cooper RA(1)(2)(3)(4)(7).

Author information:
(1)a VA Pittsburgh Healthcare System, Center of Excellence in Wheelchairs and 
Related Technology , Pittsburgh , PA , USA .
(2)b Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation , University of 
Pittsburgh Medical Center , Pittsburgh , PA , USA .
(3)c Human Engineering Research Laboratories , University of Pittsburgh , 
Pittsburgh , PA , USA .
(4)d Department of Rehabilitation Science and Technology , University of 
Pittsburgh , Pittsburgh , PA , USA .
(5)e Drexel University College of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh , 
Pittsburgh , PA , USA .
(6)f School of Medicine, University of Pittsburgh , Pittsburgh , PA , USA , and.
(7)g Department of Bioengineering , Swanson School of Engineering, University of 
Pittsburgh , Pittsburgh , PA , USA.

PURPOSE: To determine whether sledge hockey players with physical disability 
have higher average seated pressures compared to non-disabled controls.
METHOD: Fifteen age-matched controls without physical disability and 15 
experimental participants with physical disability were studied using a pressure 
mapping device to determine risk for skin pressure ulceration and the impact of 
cushioning and knee angle positioning on seated pressure distributions.
RESULTS: Regardless of participant group, cushioning, or knee angle, average 
seated pressures exceeded clinically acceptable seated pressures. Controls had 
significantly higher average seated pressures than the disability group when 
knees were flexed, both with the cushion (p = 0.013) and without (p = 0.015). 
Knee extension showed significantly lower average pressures in controls, both 
with the cushion (p < 0.001) and without (p < 0.001). Placement of the cushion 
resulted in significantly lower average pressure in controls when knees were 
extended (p = 0.024) but not when flexed (p = 0.248). Placement of the cushion 
resulted in no difference in pressure (p = 0.443) in the disability group.
CONCLUSIONS: Pressures recorded indicate high risk for skin ulceration. 
Cushioning was effective only in the control group with knees extended. That 
knee extension significantly lowered average seated pressures is important, as 
many sledge hockey players utilize positioning with larger knee flexion angles. 
Implications for Rehabilitation Ice sledge hockey is a fast growing adaptive 
sport. Adaptive sports have been associated with several positive improvements 
in overall health and quality of life, though may be putting players at risk for 
skin ulceration. Measured static seated pressure in sledges greatly exceeds 
current clinically accepted clinical guidelines. With modern improvements in 
wheelchair pressure relief/cushioning there are potential methods for 
improvement of elevated seated pressure in ice hockey sledges.

DOI: 10.3109/17483107.2014.921939
PMID: 24875641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Eur Respir J. 2014 Sep;44(3):734-43. doi: 10.1183/09031936.00193213. Epub
2014  May 29.

Depression and suicidality in COPD: understandable reaction or independent 
disorders?

Hegerl U(1), Mergl R(2).

Author information:
(1)Dept of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, 
Saxonia, Germany Ulrich.Hegerl@medizin.uni-leipzig.de.
(2)Dept of Psychiatry and Psychotherapy, University of Leipzig, Leipzig, 
Saxonia, Germany.

Comment in
    Eur Respir J. 2014 Sep;44(3):570-1.

Both depression and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are prevalent, 
severe and often comorbid disorders. There is a risk of undertreatment for 
depression in patients with COPD as depressive symptoms, including suicidal 
tendencies, can erroneously be conceptualised as an understandable reaction to 
COPD and not as signs of an independent depressive disorder. In this context, 
the comorbidity rates of COPD and depression, the risk of suicidal behaviour in 
patients with COPD, and the evidence base for pharmaco- and psychotherapy in 
these patients are reviewed. Because symptoms of depression and COPD overlap it 
remains unclear how far the prevalence of major depression in COPD exceeds that 
in the general population. The suicide risk appears to be increased in COPD. 
Methodological studies providing evidence for the antidepressant efficacy of 
antidepressants or psychotherapy in patients with COPD are lacking. 
Recommendations for clinicians on how to separate depression from an 
understandable reaction to COPD are provided. Given the profound effects of 
depression on quality of life, life expectancy, COPD prognosis and suicide risk 
it is important to carefully diagnose and treat depression in patients with COPD 
according to national guidelines.

©ERS 2014.

DOI: 10.1183/09031936.00193213
PMID: 24876171 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Hum Reprod. 2014 Aug;29(8):1780-6. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deu107. Epub 2014 May
29.

Excess mortality in mothers of patients with polycystic ovary syndrome.

Louwers YV(1), Roest-Schalken ME(2), Kleefstra N(3), Roeters van Lennep J(4), 
van den Berg M(5), Fauser BC(6), Bilo HJ(3), Sijbrands EJ(4), Laven JS(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Reproductive Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Erasmus MC University Medical Center, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands y.louwers@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Division of Reproductive Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
Erasmus MC University Medical Center, PO Box 2040, 3000 CA, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Diabetes Center, Isala Clinics, PO Box 10400, 8000 GK Zwolle, The Netherlands 
Department of Internal Medicine, University Medical Center Groningen, PO Box 
30001, 9700 RB Groningen, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, Erasmus MC University Medical Center, PO Box 
2040, 3000 CA, Rotterdam, The Netherlands.
(5)Division of Reproductive Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 
University Medical Center Groningen, PO Box 30001, 9700 RB Groningen, The 
Netherlands.
(6)Department of Reproductive Medicine and Gynecology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, PO Box 85500, 3508 GA Utrecht, The Netherlands.

STUDY QUESTION: Do diabetic parents of patients with polycystic ovary syndrome 
(PCOS) encounter excess mortality compared with the mortality of men and women 
with type 2 diabetes, recruited without selection for PCOS?
SUMMARY ANSWER: Type 2 diabetes among mothers of PCOS patients results in excess 
mortality compared with women with diabetes from the general population.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: Insulin resistance is a prominent feature of PCOS. 
Because of the heritable nature of PCOS, parents of these patients are also 
prone to develop type 2 diabetes mellitus, which might influence their life 
expectancy.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: This reverse parent-offspring study included 946 
mothers and 902 fathers of patients with PCOS.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: The medical history of the parents was 
primarily obtained during the initial screening of each patient and updated via 
questionnaires. Mortality data of these parents were compared with the mortality 
rates of the general Dutch population and with mortality rates of a control 
population consisting of 1353 men and women diagnosed with type 2 diabetes 
mellitus. The standardized mortality ratio (SMR) was calculated as the ratio of 
the observed mortality of the parents to the expected mortality in the general 
Dutch population. The mortality of parents with type 2 diabetes mellitus 
relative to controls with diabetes but not related to anyone with PCOS was 
standardized for age, gender and calendar period using Poisson regression.
MAIN RESULTS AND ROLE OF CHANCE: In total, 302 parents were deceased in 62 693 
person-years. Mothers above age 60 had a significant excess mortality of 1.50 
(95% CI 1.15-1.92) compared with the general Dutch population. Moreover, mothers 
with diabetes had two-times higher mortality risk compared with control women 
with diabetes (RR 2.0, 95% CI 1.19-3.41). No excess mortality among fathers of 
PCOS patients was observed.
LIMITATIONS, REASON FOR CAUTION: Although recall bias for family history was 
previously demonstrated to be minimal for long-term chronic diseases, the 
prevalence of diabetes in the parents was based on their daughter's self-report 
and was not clinically confirmed. Also, no other additional clinical data 
regarding the parent population were available. Prospective long-term follow-up 
studies should be conducted to confirm this excess mortality.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: Our findings justify screening for type 2 
diabetes mellitus among the mothers with a daughter suffering from PCOS to 
ensure that timely preventive and therapeutic measures according to the 
appropriate guidelines can be taken.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS: No particular funding was received for this 
study. Y.V.L., M.E.R.-S., N.K., J.R.v.L., M.v.d.B., H.J.G.B. and E.J.G.S. do not 
have any conflict of interest. J.S.E.L. has received fees and grant support from 
the following companies (in alphabetic order): Ferring, Genovum, Merck-Serono, 
Organon, Schering Plough and Serono. B.C.J.M.F. has received fees and grant 
support from the following companies (in alphabetic order): Andromed, Ardana, 
Ferring, Genovum, Merck Serono, Organon, Pantharei Bioscience, PregLem, 
Schering, Schering Plough, Serono, and Wyeth. These companies had no role in 
study design, data collection and analysis, decision to publish, or preparation 
of the manuscript.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For 
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deu107
PMID: 24876175 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:542385. doi: 10.1155/2014/542385. Epub 2014 Apr
27.

Evaluation of anticonvulsant, sedative, anxiolytic, and phytochemical profile of 
the methanol extract from the aerial parts of Swertia corymbosa (Griseb.) wight 
ex C.B. Clarke.

Mahendran G(1), Thamotharan G(2), Sengottuvelu S(2), Bai VN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, School of Life Sciences, Bharathiar University, 
Coimbatore, Tamilnadu 641046, India.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, Nandha College of Pharmacy and Research 
Institute, Erode 638052, India.

The objective of the present study was to evaluate the anxiolytic, 
antidepressant, and anticonvulsant activity of the methanolic extract of Swertia 
corymbosa (SCMeOH). After acute toxicity test, oral treatment with SCMeOH at 
doses of 125, 250, and 500 mg/kg behavioral models of open field, 
elevated-plus-maze, actophotometer, rotarod, pentylenetetrazole, isoniazid, and 
maximal electroshock induced seizure models were utilized. In open field test, 
SCMeOH (125, 250, and 500 mg/kg) (P < 0.01, P < 0.001) increased the number of 
rearings. However, the number of central motor and ambulation (P < 0.01, P < 
0.001) were reduced. Likewise, the number of entries and the time spent in open 
arm were increased while the number of locomotion was decreased (P < 0.001) in 
elevated-plus-maze and actophotometer test, respectively. SCMeOH (125-500 mg/kg) 
protected the mice against the pentylenetetrazole and isoniazid induced 
convulsions; it causes significant (P < 0.01 and P < 0.001) dose dependent 
increase in latency of convulsion. Treatment with SCMeOH reduced the duration of 
the tonic hind limb extension induced by electroshock. Two major compounds such 
as gentiopicroside and swertianin were analyzed by HPLC system.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/542385
PMCID: PMC4022199
PMID: 24877112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Future Oncol. 2014 Dec;10(16):2555-60. doi: 10.2217/FON.14.107.

The prognostic role of circulating tumor cells in heavily pretreated individuals 
with a low life expectancy.

Stebbing J(1), Harding V, Urch CE, Kaier T, Schofield G, Flook M, Alifrangis C, 
Young AM, Shaw JA, Coombes RC, Krell J.

Author information:
(1)The Departments of Medical Oncology & Palliative Care, Imperial College & 
Imperial College Healthcare NHS Trust, Fulham Palace Road, London, W6 8RF, UK.

AIMS: Studies of circulating tumor cells (CTCs) have generally recruited 
individuals with newly diagnosed metastatic cancer, with recent data also 
indicating their prognostic value in the adjuvant setting. Their role in dying 
patients has not been established.
EXPERIMENTAL: CTCs were measured in 43 individuals with metastatic breast cancer 
estimated to have less than 6 months to live who had exhausted standard 
therapeutic options.
RESULTS: Those with a CTC count of ≤ 100 had a median of 182 days to live, 
compared with those with a CTC count of >100 who had a median of 17 days until 
death (p = 0.009, log rank, HR: 3.1, 95% CI: 1.4-7.3).
CONCLUSION: A CTC count of >100 is associated with imminent death. Provided 
external validity is demonstrated, such information would be useful for patients 
and their families who often request specific prognostic clarity and could 
improve the quality of end-of-life care.

DOI: 10.2217/FON.14.107
PMID: 24877667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Rev Med Inst Mex Seguro Soc. 2014 May-Jun;52(3):316-21.

[Educational status and life expectancy in patients with chronic 
non-communicable diseases].

[Article in Spanish; Abstract available in Spanish from the publisher]

Villarreal-Hernández Ldel S(1), Romo-Martínez JE.

Author information:
(1)Unidad de Medicina Familiar 3, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, 
Guadalajara, Jalisco, México. liliana.villarreal@imss.gob.mx.

BACKGROUND: Suffering a non communicable chronic disease in combination with low 
educational level and low economic income develops a synergy, which contributes 
to a poor prognostic about the expectancy of life. A better educational level 
may improve the life expectancy. The objective of this research was to explore 
this relation.
METHODS: A retrospective cohort study from January 1, 1999, to December 31, 
2011, was performed. We included 2306 patients obtained from the information 
system in mortality of Family Medicine Unit 3 of the Instituto Mexicano del 
Seguro Social in Guadalajara, Jalisco. The main measures were average 
age-at-death and educational level. We used Student's t, chi-squared test and 
relative risk (RR) calculations for statistical analysis.
RESULTS: The average age-at-death for those who had a low educational level (n = 
1936) was 73.24 ± 12.18 years, while for those who had a satisfactory level of 
education (n = 370) was 63.47 ± 14.51 years, estimating a mean difference of 
9.77 years with p < 0.001. Having a low educational level and not reaching life 
expectancy compared to the satisfactory level meant a RR = 0.24 (IC 95 % = 0.19, 
0.30). The projected linear regression for each educational grade showed that 
patients lost 2.5 years of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Diabetes accompanied by a low educational level showed a double 
probability of not reaching the expectation of life.

Publisher: INTRODUCCIÓN: una enfermedad crónica no transmisible, el nivel 
educativo bajo y los bajos ingresos económicos pueden hacer sinergia y 
contribuir a un mal pronóstico en cuanto a la expectativa de vida esperada. Se 
estima que alcanzar un mejor nivel de educación hace posible que mejore la 
expectativa de vida. El objetivo de esta investigación fue explorar esta 
relación. MÉTODOS: estudio de cohorte retrospectivo realizado del 1 de enero de 
1999 al 31 de diciembre de 2011, de individuos que fallecieron por enfermedades 
crónicas no transmisibles. Se incluyeron 2306 pacientes registrados en el 
Sistema de Información en Mortalidad de la Unidad de Medicina Familiar 3, 
Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, en Guadalajara, Jalisco. Se registró la 
edad al momento de la muerte y el nivel educativo. Las pruebas estadísticas 
aplicadas fueron t de Student y 2. Se calculó el riesgo relativo.
RESULTADOS: la edad promedio al morir en quienes tuvieron un bajo nivel 
educativo fue de 73.24 ± 12.18 años y en quienes tuvieron un nivel educativo 
satisfactorio fue de 63.47 ±14.51 años; la diferencia de medias fue de 9.77 años 
(p < 0.001). Tener un bajo nivel educativo y no alcanzar la expectativa de vida 
mostró un RR = 0.24 (IC 95 % = 0.19, 0.30). Por cada grado escolar alcanzado, 
los pacientes perdieron 2.5 años de vida. La diabetes mostró un RR = 2.02 (IC 95 
% = 1.65, 2.40), ajustado por bajo nivel educativo y sexo.
CONCLUSIONES: padecer diabetes en combinación con bajo nivel educativo mostró 
una doble probabilidad de no lograr la expectativa de vida esperada.

PMID: 24878092 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. J Comp Eff Res. 2014 Sep;3(5):503-14. doi: 10.2217/cer.14.32. Epub 2014 May
30.

Cost-effectiveness of uterine-preserving procedures for the treatment of uterine 
fibroid symptoms in the USA.

Cain-Nielsen AH(1), Moriarty JP, Stewart EA, Borah BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics, School of Public Health, University of Michigan, 
Ann Arbor, MI, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of the following three treatments 
of uterine fibroids in a population of premenopausal women who wish to preserve 
their uteri: myomectomy, magnetic resonance-guided focused ultrasound (MRgFUS) 
and uterine artery embolization (UAE).
MATERIALS & METHODS: A decision analytic Markov model was constructed. 
Cost-effectiveness was calculated in terms of US$ per quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) over 5 years. Two types of costs were calculated: direct costs only, and 
the sum of direct and indirect (productivity) costs. Women in the hypothetical 
cohort were assessed for treatment type eligibility, were treated based on 
eligibility, and experienced adequate or inadequate symptom relief. Additional 
treatment (myomectomy) occurred for inadequate symptom relief or recurrence. 
Sensitivity analysis was conducted to evaluate uncertainty in the model 
parameters.
RESULTS:  In the base case, myomectomy, MRgFUS and UAE had the following 
combinations of mean cost and mean QALYs, respectively: US$15,459, 3.957; 
US$15,274, 3.953; and US$18,653, 3.943. When incorporating productivity costs, 
MRgFUS incurred a mean cost of US$21,232; myomectomy US$22,599; and UAE 
US$22,819. Using probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) and excluding 
productivity costs, myomectomy was cost effective at almost every decision 
threshold. Using PSA and incorporating productivity costs, myomectomy was cost 
effective at decision thresholds above US$105,000/QALY; MRgFUS was cost 
effective between US$30,000 and US$105,000/QALY; and UAE was cost effective 
below US$30,000/QALY.
CONCLUSION: Myomectomy, MRgFUS, and UAE were similarly effective in terms of 
QALYs gained. Depending on assumptions about costs and willingness to pay for 
additional QALYs, all three treatments can be deemed cost effective in a 5-year 
time frame.

DOI: 10.2217/cer.14.32
PMCID: PMC4213230
PMID: 24878319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Other authors do not report any conflict of 
interests.


340. MEDICC Rev. 2014 Apr;16(2):66-71. doi: 10.37757/MR2014.V16.N2.11.

Chronic kidney disease in Central American agricultural communities: challenges 
for epidemiology and public health.

