breast cancer and three female reproductive system cancers (cervical, 
endometrial and ovarian), by summing years of life lost due to premature 
mortality and years lived with disability. Years of life lost due to premature 
mortality were determined based on age-specific estimates of life expectancy. 
Years lived with disability were calculated as the product of severities 
(provided by the 1990 Global Burden of Disease study) and incidence and average 
duration, both obtained via the DISMOD II program. Data entered in the program 
include national statistics on incidence, prevalence, and mortality. RESULTS 
Breast cancer and cervical cancer proved to have the highest rates of potential 
years of life lost due to premature mortality, with the sharpest increases in 
the period (from 139 to 206.5 and 114.7 to 215.2 per 100,000, respectively). 
Endometrial and ovarian neoplasms crept up more slowly. An increase in years 
lived with disability was seen in three of these four types of cancer; only 
cervical cancer saw a decline (from 12.7 to 9 per 100,000). Breast cancer and 
cervical cancer presented the highest levels of disability-adjusted life years 
for all four years studied, rising from 146.9 to 227.8 and 127.4 to 224.2 per 
100,000, respectively between 1990 and 2006. CONCLUSIONS An unfavorable trend in 
disability-adjusted life years was seen for breast and cervical cancer between 
1990 and 2006 in Cuban women of childbearing age.

DOI: 10.37757/MR2014.V16.N3-4.3
PMID: 25208113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


294. J Alzheimers Dis. 2015;44(1):195-204. doi: 10.3233/JAD-141632.

Cost-effectiveness of nationwide opportunistic screening program for dementia in 
South Korea.

Yu SY(1), Lee TJ(1), Jang SH(1), Han JW(2), Kim TH(2), Kim KW(3).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Public Health, Seoul National University, Seoul, South 
Korea.
(2)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Gyeonggido, South Korea.
(3)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Seoul National University Bundang Hospital, 
Gyeonggido, South Korea Department of Brain and Cognitive Science, Seoul 
National University College of Natural Sciences, Seoul, South Korea.

Although more demand for screening for dementia is envisaged, the 
cost-effectiveness of opportunistic population screening for dementia at a 
nationwide level has never been directly investigated. Since 2010, Korea has 
implemented "the National Dementia Early Detection Program" (NDEDP) for the 
aged. This study aims to investigate the cost-effectiveness of the NDEDP of 
Korea and to explore the requirements for enhancing its cost-effectiveness. A 
Markov model was developed to simulate the disease progression of dementia 
patients. Data sources for the model parameters included the NDEDP database for 
cohort characteristics and other national representative data. The model's 
estimates of the expected costs and Quality Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) for each 
strategy were used to calculate the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
screening compared to no screening, and sensitivity analysis was performed to 
assess the effect of key variables on the cost-effectiveness. Screening showed 
that the cost per QALY gained ranged from $24,150 to $35,661 depending on the 
age group. The probability of screening being cost-effective was highest in the 
group over 75 years old in a wide range of willingness to pay (WTP). The 
implementation of an opportunistic screening program for dementia can be 
cost-effective depending on disease severity, treatment effect, costs by disease 
stage, ages of the participants, and the societal WTP. Above all things, 
improving access to more effective therapies in slowing the course of the 
disease is essential since the main benefit of earlier diagnosis for dementia is 
starting early treatment and subsequent savings. Although it is too early to 
conclude the cost-effectiveness of opportunistic population screening for 
dementia, this current study may be a meaningful step toward generating 
practical evidence for implementing an effective and efficient dementia 
screening program.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-141632
PMID: 25208621 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


295. Lupus. 2014 Dec;23(14):1546-52. doi: 10.1177/0961203314551083. Epub 2014 Sep
10.

Mortality and years of potential life loss in systemic lupus erythematosus: a 
population-based cohort study.

Lerang K(1), Gilboe IM(2), Steinar Thelle D(3), Gran JT(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Oslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet, Oslo, 
Norway klerang@ous-hf.no.
(2)Department of Rheumatology, Oslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet, Oslo, 
Norway.
(3)Department of biostatistics, Institute of Basic Medical Sciences, University 
of Oslo, Oslo, Norway Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, 
Gothenburg University, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(4)Department of Rheumatology, Oslo University Hospital, Rikshospitalet, Oslo, 
Norway Institute of Clinical Medicine, University of Oslo, Oslo, Norway.

Multiple sources were used to identify 325 systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) 
patients within the city of Oslo during 1999-2009 who met ≥ 4 of the American 
College of Rheumatology (ACR) criteria. The survival, standard mortality rate 
(SMR), years of potential life loss before 60 years of age (YPLL60) and causes 
of death of these patients were examined and compared to a matched control 
population. Only inception cases (127) were studied in the calculation of 
survival. The analysis includes underlying, immediate and contributing causes of 
death. The five- and 10-year survival was 95% and 90%, respectively, which was 
significantly reduced when compared to the general population. A total of 50 SLE 
patients died during the study period. Overall SMR was 3.0 (95% confidence 
interval (CI) 2.2-3.8) with the highest SMR found for female patients aged 16-39 
years old. SLE patients had a 10 times higher rate of YPLL60 compared to the 
control group. YPLL emphasizes active disease and reduces the importance of 
cancer as a cause of death in SLE. This study demonstrates that YPLL gives 
additional and useful information for the prognosis of SLE, supplementing 
traditional methods of measuring mortality.

© The Author(s) 2014 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/0961203314551083
PMID: 25209070 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


296. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Oct;14(5):719-27. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.953933. Epub 2014 Sep 2.

Cost-effectiveness of whole-of-community obesity prevention programs: an 
overview of the evidence.

Flego A(1), Keating C, Moodie M.

Author information:
(1)Deakin University - Deakin Health Economics, 221 Burwood Highway, Burwood. 
Victoria 3125, Australia.

Whole-of-community obesity prevention programs that impact on multiple players 
and promote community capacity show promise as an important strategy in the 
fight against global obesity. This paper reviews the economic evaluation 
literature of multifaceted, community based obesity prevention programs. There 
are few cost effectiveness studies. Whilst results to date are encouraging, 
there is considerable uncertainty surrounding the long term results given the 
lack of evidence regarding sustainability of program effect and a consequent 
reliance on economic modeling to fill the gaps. More empirical studies of longer 
duration are needed to demonstrate the longer term effectiveness and cost 
effectiveness of these programs, and to facilitate identification of the 
elements necessary for their sustainability.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.953933
PMID: 25209305 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Int J Occup Med Environ Health. 2014 Oct;27(5):716-21. doi: 
10.2478/s13382-014-0305-5. Epub 2014 Sep 10.

Worldwide associations between air quality and health end-points: are they 
meaningful?

Wallner P(1), Hutter HP, Moshammer H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Environmental Health, Medical University Vienna, Vienna, 
Austria.

OBJECTIVES: The World Health Organization (WHO) provides data on national 
indices of health, environment and economy. When we were asked, why air 
pollution is negatively correlated with cancer mortality, our first response 
(presumably the mortality data are not age-adjusted) was not sufficient to 
explain the paradox.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A table including all-cause, cancer and childhood 
mortality, life expectancy, gross national product per person, smoking 
prevalence, physician density and particulate matter (PM10) per country (N = 
193) was developed. For explorative purposes weighted cross-sectional multiple 
linear regressions models were built.
RESULTS: Air pollution is positively correlated with infant and overall 
mortality and negatively with life expectancy. This might not only depict a true 
causal effect of PM10 because air quality is also an indicator of a country's 
prosperity and general state of environment. Cancer mortality is negatively 
correlated with PM10. However, this association turns positive when economic or 
health system indicators are controlled.
CONCLUSIONS: The World Health Organization's world-wide data sets demonstrate 
the large disparity of our world. A careful and professional approach is needed 
as interpretation is difficult, especially for lay persons. Therefore, with 
publicly available data WHO should also provide interpretation and guidance.

DOI: 10.2478/s13382-014-0305-5
PMID: 25209316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Patient. 2015 Jun;8(3):247-55. doi: 10.1007/s40271-014-0084-x.

Improving the Validity of Stated-Preference Data in Health Research: The 
Potential of the Time-to-Think Approach.

Ozdemir S(1).

Author information:
(1)Health Services and Systems Research and Lien Center for Palliative Care, 
Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, 8 College Road, Singapore, 169857, Singapore, 
semra.ozdemir@duke-nus.edu.sg.

The objective of this article was to discuss potential benefits and drawbacks of 
using a time-to-think (TTT) approach in healthcare research. Implementing a TTT 
approach in a stated-preference survey study gives respondents the opportunity 
to reflect on their options before answering preference-elicitation questions. 
This article offers an evaluation of circumstances that are suited for 
implementing this approach, and highlights several remaining questions and 
problems that should be explored in future research.

DOI: 10.1007/s40271-014-0084-x
PMID: 25209857 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Popul Health Manag. 2014 Oct;17(5):318-9. doi: 10.1089/pop.2014.0076.

Socioeconomic factors and health outcome metrics in Africa: cross-national 
comparisons from 1995-2011.

Aboagye E(1), Agyemang OS, Sidney K.

Author information:
(1)1 Unit of Intervention and Implementation Research, Karolinska Institute, 
Stockholm, Sweden .

DOI: 10.1089/pop.2014.0076
PMID: 25210809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


300. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 11;9(9):e106658. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0106658. 
eCollection 2014.

Extensive recombination due to heteroduplexes generates large amounts of 
artificial gene fragments during PCR.

Liu J(1), Song H(2), Liu D(3), Zuo T(3), Lu F(1), Zhuang H(1), Gao F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology, Peking University Health Science Center, Beijing, 
China.
(2)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina, United State of America.
(3)Department of Medicine, Duke University Medical Center, Durham, North 
Carolina, United State of America; National Engineering Laboratory for AIDS 
Vaccine, College of Life Science, Jilin University, Changchun, Jilin, China.

Artificial recombinants can be generated during PCR when more than two 
genetically distinct templates coexist in a single PCR reaction. These 
recombinant amplicons can lead to the false interpretation of genetic diversity 
and incorrect identification of biological phenotypes that do not exist in vivo. 
We investigated how recombination between 2 or 35 genetically distinct HIV-1 
genomes was affected by different PCR conditions using the parallel 
allele-specific sequencing (PASS) assay and the next generation sequencing 
method. In a standard PCR condition, about 40% of amplicons in a PCR reaction 
were recombinants. The high recombination frequency could be significantly 
reduced if the number of amplicons in a PCR reaction was below a threshold of 
10(13)-10(14) using low thermal cycles, fewer input templates, and longer 
extension time. Heteroduplexes (each DNA strand from a distinct template) were 
present at a large proportion in the PCR products when more thermal cycles, more 
templates, and shorter extension time were used. Importantly, the majority of 
recombinants were identified in heteroduplexes, indicating that the recombinants 
were mainly generated through heteroduplexes. Since prematurely terminated 
extension fragments can form heteroduplexes by annealing to different templates 
during PCR amplification, recombination has a better chance to occur with 
samples containing different genomes when the number of amplicons accumulate 
over the threshold. New technologies are warranted to accurately characterize 
complex quasispecies gene populations.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0106658
PMCID: PMC4161356
PMID: 25211143 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.301. Health Rep. 2014 Aug;25(8):3-9.

Health-adjusted potential years of life lost due to treatable causes of death 
and illness.

Allin S(1), Graves E(1), Grignon M(2), Ridgeway D(1), Wang L(1).

Author information:
(1)Canadian Institute for Health Information, Toronto, Ontario M2P 2B7.
(2)McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario.

BACKGROUND: Summary measures based on potential years of life lost (PYLL) to 
death and to illness would complement population health measures such as 
health-adjusted life expectancy. These measures can be applied to deaths and to 
conditions that are considered amenable to treatment by the health care system.
DATA AND METHODS: Life tables for 2007 to 2009 were used to calculate 
health-adjusted potential years of life lost (HAPYLL) for males and females from 
birth to age 75 for Canada and the provinces. Mortality rates for all causes 
were adjusted using the Health Utility Index 3 (HUI3) as a measure of the 
average value of a year in ill health. Average HUI3 was calculated for each age 
group for selected health conditions self-reported in the 2009/2010 Canadian 
Community Health Survey. HAPYLL was estimated by adding the average number of 
years lost due to treatable causes of death (treatable PYLL) to the average 
number of years lost because of ill health (HUI3 gap).
RESULTS: More years of life are lost because of ill health than are lost because 
of premature death. During the 2007-to-2009 period, age-/sex-standardized PYLL 
due to treatable causes of death was 1,257 years per 100,000 person-years, while 
the age-/sex-standardized HUI3 gap was 6,477 years. Provincial rankings change 
when information on deaths is combined with information on ill health.
INTERPRETATION: The impact of treatable conditions is greater in terms of 
quality of life lost than in life-years lost.

PMID: 25211378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2014 Jul;36(1):10-6.

[Death by homicide in Colombia and Mexico: magnitude and trends, 2000-2011].

[Article in Spanish]

Dávila-Cervantes CA(1), Pardo-Montaño AM.

Author information:
(1)Facultad Latinoamericana de Ciencias Sociales sede México, México.

OBJECTIVE: To quantify the magnitude and explain the trends and impact of death 
by homicide in Colombia and Mexico between 2000 and 2011 at the national level 
and by sex.
METHODS: Data were obtained from national homicide statistics (Departamento 
Administrativo Nacional de Estadística [DANE], Colombia; and Instituto Nacional 
de Estadística y Geografía [INEGI], Mexico). Standardized death rates and years 
of life lost (YLL) were calculated (the latter assuming zero mortality) in 
people 15–49 years old.
RESULTS: In Colombia, between 2000 and 2002, deaths by homicide increased from 
71.3 to 76.7 per 100 000 (7.5%); by 2011 this figure had fallen to 36.1. YLL in 
the same period increased to 0.58 years overall, reducing temporary life 
expectancy by one year in men and 0.1 years in women. Between 2002 and 2011, YLL 
was 0.45 years in both sexes: 0.83 in men and 0.07 in women. This decline 
occurred mainly in persons over 45 years of age. In Mexico, between 2000 and 
2007, homicide rates fell from 10.8 to 8.2 per 100,000 and YLL dropped by 24%. 
Between 2008 and 2011, mortality and YLL increased significantly in both sexes 
(191.2% and 164.5%, respectively), reducing life expectancy by 0.39 years in men 
and 0.04 years in women.
CONCLUSIONS: It was corroborated that there has been a decline in deaths by 
homicide in Colombia and a significant rise in Mexico after a period of 
continuous reduction. Numerous actions should be taken to continue reducing 
homicides in Colombia and to reverse the current trend in Mexico.

PMID: 25211672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


303. Urologiia. 2014 May-Jun;(3):54-8.

[Prognostic value of ki-67 and vimentin markers in patients with metastatic 
kidney cancer].

[Article in Russian]

Gorelov AI, Narimanian ZN, Gorelov DS.

The study was aimed to determine the role of ki- 67 and vimentin markers in 
choosing the tactics of surgical treatment of patients with metastatic kidney 
cancer. The analysis of the results of treatment of 71 patients with metastatic 
renal cell carcinoma was performed. The first group included 16 (22.5%) 
patients, who underwent complete removal of distant metastases after 
nephrectomy. The second group consisted of 55 (77.5 %) patients who underwent 
cytoreductive nephrectomy only. Immunohistochemical analyses of tissues removed 
were performed in all patients for the evaluation of ki-67 and vimentin 
expression levels. When comparing the outcomes of patients after complete 
removal of metastases depending on the vimentin and ki-67 expression levels (< 
10% and > 10%), a significant increase in the cumulative survival in the case of 
absence of vimentin and ki-67 expression of <10 % (log - rank test, P = 0.0001) 
was revealed. The same pattern was noted in the group of patients who underwent 
nephrectomy only. In the absence of expression of vimentin and ki-67 < 10%, 
survival rate in patients who underwent metastasectomy after nephrectomy was 
significantly higher compared with patients who underwent nephrectomy only (P = 
0.001). In the case of positive expression of vimentin and ki-67 > 10%, 
differences in survival rate in these groups were not observed (P > 0.082). 
Thus, an association between the vimentin and ki-67 expression levels and the 
degree of spread of metastatic renal cell carcinoma was identified: the high 
level of expression of these markers precludes the increase of life expectancy 
of patients after removal of all metastases.

PMID: 25211928 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Curr Alzheimer Res. 2014;11(8):806-16. doi:
10.2174/156720501108140910123112.

Trajectories of age-related cognitive decline and potential associated factors 
of cognitive function in senior citizens of Beijing.

Li H, Lv C, Zhang T, Chen K, Chen C, Gai G, Hu L, Wang Y, Zhang Z(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Cognitive Neuroscience and Learning, Beijing Normal 
University, No.19 Xinjiekouwai Street, Beijing 100875, China. 
zhang_rzs@bnu.edu.cn.

With a longer life expectancy and an increased prevalence of neurodegenerative 
diseases, investigations on trajectories of cognitive aging have become exciting 
and promising. This study aimed to estimate the patterns of age-related 
cognitive decline and the potential associated factors of cognitive function in 
community-dwelling residents of Beijing, China. In this study, 1248 older adults 
aged 52-88 years [including 175 mild cognitive impairment (MCI) subjects] 
completed a battery of neuropsychological scales. The personal information, 
including demographic information, medical history, eating habits, lifestyle 
regularity and leisure activities, was also collected. All cognitive function 
exhibited an agerelated decline in normal volunteers. Piece-wise linear fitting 
results suggested that performance on the Auditory Verbal Learning Test remained 
stable until 58 years of age and continued to decline thereafter. The decline in 
processing speed and executive function began during the early 50's. Scores on 
visual-spatial and language tests declined after 66 years of age. The decline 
stage of the general mental status ranged from 63 to 70 years of age. However, 
the MCI group did not exhibit an obvious age-related decline in most cognitive 
tests. Multivariate linear regression analyses indicated that education, gender, 
leisure activities, diabetes and eating habits were associated with cognitive 
abilities. These results indicated various trajectories of age-related decline 
across multiple cognitive domains. We also found different patterns of 
agerelated cognitive decline between MCI and normal elderly. These findings 
could help improve the guidance of cognitive intervention program and have 
implications for public policy issues.

DOI: 10.2174/156720501108140910123112
PMID: 25212920 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Pharmacoeconomics. 2015 Feb;33(2):137-48. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0214-2.

Eribulin for the treatment of advanced or metastatic breast cancer: a NICE 
single technology appraisal.

Greenhalgh J(1), Bagust A, Boland A, Oyee J, Trevor N, Beale S, Dundar Y, 
Hockenhull J, Proudlove C, O'Reilly S.

Author information:
(1)Liverpool Reviews and Implementation Group, University of Liverpool, Whelan 
Building, Liverpool, L69 3GB, UK, janette.greenhalgh@liverpool.ac.uk.

The National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) invited the 
manufacturer of eribulin (Eisai Ltd) to submit evidence for the clinical and 
cost effectiveness of eribulin as treatment for patients with locally advanced 
or metastatic breast cancer (LABC/MBC) pre-treated with at least two 
chemotherapy regimens. This article summarizes the review of evidence by the 
Evidence Review Group (ERG) and provides a summary of the NICE Appraisal 
Committee's (AC's) decision. The clinical evidence was derived from a 
multi-centred, open-label, randomized, phase III study comparing eribulin with 
treatment of physician's choice (TPC) in 762 patients with LABC/MBC. Clinical 
effectiveness results were submitted for two populations: the overall 
intention-to-treat (ITT) population and a subset (n = 488) that included only 
patients from North America, Western Europe and Australia (Region 1). For the 
primary endpoint of overall survival (OS), a primary analysis (after 55 % of 
patients had died) and an updated analysis (after 77 % of patients had died) 
were conducted. In the ITT population, treatment with eribulin was associated 
with a significant improvement in median OS compared with TPC in both primary 
[difference in median OS 2.5 months; hazard ratio (HR) 0.81, 95 % confidence 
interval (CI) 0.66-0.99] and updated analyses (2.7 months; HR 0.81, 95 % CI 
0.67-0.96). A statistically significant improvement in progression-free survival 
(PFS) was reported for eribulin compared with TPC when assessed by the 
investigator (difference in median PFS 1.48 months; HR 0.76, 95 % CI 0.64-0.90), 
but not when assessed by the ERG (1.44 months; HR 0.87, 95 % CI 0.71-1.05). 
Gains in OS were greater for Region 1 patients than for the ITT population (3.1 
vs. 2.7 months). Health-related quality of life (HRQoL) data suggested a benefit 
for eribulin responders, but was based on phase II studies. In the eribulin arm, 
serious adverse events included febrile neutropenia (4.2 %) and neutropenia (1.8 
%), with peripheral neuropathy being the most common reason for treatment 
discontinuation. The manufacturer's economic evaluation using Patient Access 
Scheme costs reported a base-case incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) 
for eribulin versus TPC (Region 1) of £46,050 per quality-adjusted life year 
gained (corrected to £45,106 when an erroneous data entry was removed). The 
ERG's revised ICERs were £61,804 for Region 1 and £76,110 for the overall 
population. The AC concluded that the evidence had not demonstrated sufficient 
benefit in OS, cost effectiveness or HRQoL and that eribulin was not recommended 
for use in this patient group.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0214-2
PMID: 25213036 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Global Health. 2014 Sep 12;10:66. doi: 10.1186/s12992-014-0066-8.

Trade and investment liberalization and Asia's noncommunicable disease epidemic: 
a synthesis of data and existing literature.

Baker P, Kay A, Walls H.

BACKGROUND: Trade and investment liberalization (trade liberalization) can 
promote or harm health. Undoubtedly it has contributed, although unevenly, to 
Asia's social and economic development over recent decades with resultant gains 
in life expectancy and living standards. In the absence of public health 
protections, however, it is also a significant upstream driver of 
non-communicable diseases (NCDs) including cardiovascular disease, cancer and 
diabetes through facilitating increased consumption of the 'risk commodities' 
tobacco, alcohol and ultra-processed foods, and by constraining access to NCD 
medicines. In this paper we describe the NCD burden in Asian countries, trends 
in risk commodity consumption and the processes by which trade liberalization 
has occurred in the region and contributed to these trends. We further establish 
pressing questions for future research on strengthening regulatory capacity to 
address trade liberalization impacts on risk commodity consumption and health.
METHODS: A semi-structured search of scholarly databases, institutional websites 
and internet sources for academic and grey literature. Data for descriptive 
statistics were sourced from Euromonitor International, the World Bank, the 
World Health Organization, and the World Trade Organization.
RESULTS: Consumption of tobacco, alcohol and ultra-processed foods was prevalent 
in the region and increasing in many countries. We find that trade 
liberalization can facilitate increased trade in goods, services and investments 
in ways that can promote risk commodity consumption, as well as constrain the 
available resources and capacities of governments to enact policies and 
programmes to mitigate such consumption. Intellectual property provisions of 
trade agreements may also constrain access to NCD medicines. Successive layers 
of the evolving global and regional trade regimes including structural 
adjustment, multilateral trade agreements, and preferential trade agreements 
have enabled transnational corporations that manufacture, market and distribute 
risk commodities to increasingly penetrate and promote consumption in Asian 
markets.
CONCLUSIONS: Trade liberalization is a significant driver of the NCD epidemic in 
Asia. Increased participation in trade agreements requires countries to 
strengthen regulatory capacity to ensure adequate protections for public health. 
How best to achieve this through multilateral, regional and unilateral actions 
is a pressing question for ongoing research.

DOI: 10.1186/s12992-014-0066-8
PMCID: PMC4180923
PMID: 25213212 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Dec;14(6):889-99. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.957185. Epub 2014 Sep 12.

Genomic profile of breast cancer: cost-effectiveness analysis from the Spanish 
National Healthcare System perspective.

Seguí MÁ(1), Crespo C, Cortés J, Lluch A, Brosa M, Becerra V, Chiavenna SM, 
Gracia A.

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncology Department, Corporació Sanitaria Parc Taulí, Sabadell, 
Spain.

Comment in
    Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2015 Jun;15(3):395-7.
    Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2015 Jun;15(3):393-4.

BACKGROUND: Cost-effectiveness analysis of MammaPrint(®) (70-gene signature) in 
the diagnosis of early breast cancer as a prognosis assay to study the risk of 
tumor recurrence to administer adjuvant chemotherapy.
METHODS: Markov model assuming a cohort of 60-year-old women with breast cancer. 
Treatment costs and effects were assessed by comparing the 5-year, 10-year and 
lifetime risk of recurrence using Adjuvant! Online(®) (online algorithm), 
70-gene signature or Oncotype DX(®) (21-gene assay).
RESULTS: 70-gene signature showed a life expectancy of 23.55 years at lifetime. 
Life expectancy was lower for 21-gene assay and online algorithm, with 
associated quality-adjusted life year gains up to 0.23 and 0.75, respectively, 
with 70-gene signature. At year 5, the mean cost of 21-gene assay, 70-gene 
signature and online algorithm was €7100, €6380 and €4580, respectively. 70-gene 
signature was dominant versus 21-gene assay at any time horizon and would be 
cost-effective from year 7 versus online algorithm (lifetime: €1457 per 
quality-adjusted life years gained).
CONCLUSIONS: 70-gene signature was a dominant strategy over 21-gene assay and 
was highly cost-effective versus online algorithm.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.957185
PMID: 25213317 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


308. Gerontologist. 2015 Feb;55(1):107-19. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnu089. Epub 2014
Sep  11.

Using a micro-level model to generate a macro-level model of productive 
successful aging.

Johnson JK(1), Sarkisian N(2), Williamson JB(2).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Social Work, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts. 
jesskmjohnson@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Sociology, Boston College, Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY: Aging successfully entails good physical and cognitive 
health, as well as ongoing participation in social and productive activity. This 
study hones in on participation in productive activity, a factor that makes an 
important contribution to successful aging. One conceptual model of productive 
activity in later life specifies the antecedents and consequences of 
productivity. This study draws on that micro-level model to develop a 
corresponding macro-level model and assesses its utility for examining the 
predictors of and explaining the relationships between one form of productivity 
(labor force participation rates) and one aspect of well-being (average life 
expectancy) among males and females.
DESIGN AND METHODS: Random effects regression models and path analysis were used 
to analyze cross-national longitudinal data for 24 high-income Organization for 
Economic Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries at seven time points 
(1980-2010; 168 observations total).
RESULTS: OECD countries with higher labor force participation rates among older 
workers have higher life expectancies. Labor force participation mediates the 
effects of gross domestic product per capita on male and female life expectancy, 
and it mediates the effect of self-employment rate for men, but it acts as a 
suppressor with regard to the effect of public spending on male and female life 
expectancy.
IMPLICATIONS: A well-known micro-level model of productive activity can be 
fruitfully adapted to account for macro-level cross-national variation in 
productivity and well-being.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnu089
PMCID: PMC5994884
PMID: 25213484 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. BMC Neurol. 2014 Sep 10;14:173. doi: 10.1186/s12883-014-0173-4.

Response to cholinesterase inhibitors affects lifespan in Alzheimer's disease.

Wattmo C, Londos E, Minthon L.

BACKGROUND: A varying response to cholinesterase inhibitor (ChEI) treatment has 
been reported among patients with Alzheimer's disease (AD). Whether the 
individual-specific response, specific ChEI agent or dose affects mortality is 
unclear. We aimed to examine the relationship between the 6-month response to 
ChEI and lifespan.
METHODS: Six hundred and eighty-one deceased patients with a clinical AD 
diagnosis and a Mini-Mental State Examination (MMSE) score of 10-26 at the start 
of ChEI therapy (baseline) were included in a prospective, observational, 
multicentre study in clinical practice. At baseline and after 6 months of 
treatment, the participants were assessed using the MMSE, the Alzheimer's 
Disease Assessment Scale-cognitive subscale (ADAS-cog), the Clinician's 
Interview-Based Impression of Change (CIBIC), the Instrumental Activities of 
Daily Living (IADL) scale, and the Physical Self-Maintenance Scale (PSMS). The 
individuals' socio-demographic characteristics, ChEI dose, and date of death 
were recorded. Responses to ChEI and the association of possible risk factors 
with survival were analysed using general linear models.
RESULTS: A longer lifespan (mean of 0.5 years) was observed among the 
improved/unchanged patients, as measured by MMSE or CIBIC score, but not by 
ADAS-cog score, after 6 months of ChEI therapy. In the multivariate models, 
increased survival time was independently related to a better 6-month response 
in MMSE, CIBIC, IADL, and PSMS scores, female sex, no antihypertensive/cardiac 
or antidiabetic therapy, younger age, lower education, milder disease stage at 
baseline, and higher ChEI dose. Apolipoprotein E genotype did not affect 
mortality significantly. The patients who received a higher ChEI dose during the 
first 6 months had a mean lifespan after baseline that was 15 months longer than 
that of those who received a lower dose.
CONCLUSIONS: A better short-term response to ChEI might prolong survival in 
naturalistic AD patients. In individuals who received and tolerated higher ChEI 
doses, a longer lifespan can be expected.

DOI: 10.1186/s12883-014-0173-4
PMCID: PMC4172846
PMID: 25213579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


310. Maturitas. 2014 Nov;79(3):256-64. doi: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2014.08.005. Epub
 2014 Aug 18.

Skin health in older age.

Al-Nuaimi Y(1), Sherratt MJ(2), Griffiths CE(3).

Author information:
(1)Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester M13 9PT, UK; The Dermatology Centre, Barnes Building, Salford Royal 
NHS Foundation Trust M6 8HD, UK. Electronic address: yusur@doctors.net.uk.
(2)Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester M13 9PT, UK; School of Biomedicine, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester M13 9PT, UK.
(3)Manchester Academic Health Sciences Centre, The University of Manchester, 
Manchester M13 9PT, UK; The Dermatology Centre, Barnes Building, Salford Royal 
NHS Foundation Trust M6 8HD, UK.

As people age, their skin undergoes changes which result in reduced elasticity, 
increased fragility and an altered immune response; in essence it becomes frail. 
As life expectancy is increasing the health of older skin is becoming a 
progressively more important facet of overall care. In addition to the 
consequences of ageing for otherwise healthy skin, the relative incidence of 
some dermatological conditions is age-dependent. In particular, xerosis (dry 
skin), cutaneous malignancies and skin injuries are more common in older people. 
In this review we describe the functional consequences of skin ageing and 
discuss the current evidence on how skin health may be maintained and 
dermatological conditions prevented in an ageing population. The future of 
dermatological health-care provision in the older population relies on the 
development of coordinated pathways of care, which start from a young age. 
Better quality research coordinated by the establishment of institutions dealing 
with skin health and ageing would be a method of addressing these needs.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.maturitas.2014.08.005
PMID: 25213594 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


311. Food Chem. 2011 Jun 15;126(4):1812-6. doi: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2010.12.032.
Epub  2010 Dec 10.

Shelf-life extension of highbush blueberry using 1-methylcyclopropene stored 
under air and controlled atmosphere.

Chiabrando V(1), Giacalone G(2).

Author information:
(1)Dipartimento di Colture Arboree, Facoltà di Agraria, Università degli Studi 
di Torino, Via Leonardo da Vinci 44, 10095 Grugliasco, TO, Italy. Electronic 
address: valentina.chiabrando@unito.it.
(2)Dipartimento di Colture Arboree, Facoltà di Agraria, Università degli Studi 
di Torino, Via Leonardo da Vinci 44, 10095 Grugliasco, TO, Italy.

The potential of 1-methylcyclopropene for controlling ripening in 'Lateblue' 
blueberry fruit was explored. After harvest, blueberry fruits were exposed to 
1-MCP (0.3 and 0.6μll(-1)). After treatment, samples were stored in air at 0°C 
for 35days and in a controlled atmosphere (3kPa O2+11kPa CO2) for 60days. 
Quality parameters were monitored (weight loss, total soluble solids content, 
titratable acidity, firmness, anthocyanin content, phenolic content, total 
antioxidant capacity). Blueberries treated with 1-MCP showed a reduced weight 
loss during storage and a lower total soluble solid content compared to 
untreated fruit. High titratable acidity values were observed after controlled 
atmosphere storage, but no significant effect of 1-MCP on this parameter was 
observed. 1-MCP had no significant effects on anthocyanins, phenolics or 
antioxidant activities.

Copyright © 2010 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.foodchem.2010.12.032
PMID: 25213961


312. Pharm Pract (Granada). 2006 Oct;4(4):195-203. doi: 
10.4321/s1885-642x2006000400008.

Community pharmacy-based intervention to improve self-monitoring of blood 
glucose in type 2 diabetic patients.

Müller U(1), Hämmerlein A(2), Casper A(3), Schulz M(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Drug Information and Pharmacy Practice, ABDA - Federal Union of 
German Associations of Pharmacists. Berlin ( Germany ).
(2)Center for Drug Information and Pharmacy Practice, ABDA, Berlin ( Germany ).
(3)Bayer Vital GmbH Diabetes Care, Leverkusen ( Germany ).
(4)Adjunct Professor University of Frankfurt , Frankfurt (Germany), and Head, 
Center for Drug Information and Pharmacy Practice, ABDA, Berlin ( Germany ).

Self-monitoring of blood glucose (SMBG) is clearly correlated with increased 
life expectancy and quality of life in type 2 diabetic patients.
OBJECTIVE: The objective of our study was to record and assess the errors 
patients make in preparing, performing, and processing self-monitoring of blood 
glucose (SMBG). Furthermore, the study aimed to determine to what extent a 
single standardized SMBG instruction session in a community pharmacy might 
reduce the number of patients making errors or the number of errors per patient.
METHODS: Between May and October 2005, SMBG of 462 randomly selected patients 
with type 2 diabetes was monitored in 32 pharmacies specialized in diabetes 
care. The patients performed blood glucose self-tests using their own blood 
glucose meters. Self-testing was monitored using a standardized documentation 
sheet on which any error made during the performance of the test was recorded. 
If necessary, patients were instructed in the accurate operation of their meter 
and the use of the necessary equipment. Additionally, patients obtained written 
instructions. Six weeks later, assessment of the quality of patient's SMBG was 
repeated.
RESULTS: During the first observation, 383 patients (83%) made at least one 
mistake performing SMBG. By the time of the second observation, this frequency 
had fallen to 189 (41%) (p<0.001). The average number of mistakes fell from 3.1 
to 0.8 per patient. Mistakes that may potentially have led to inaccurate 
readings were initially recorded for 283 (61%) and at study end for 110 (24%) 
patients (p<0.001).
CONCLUSION: It is important to periodically instruct type 2 diabetic patients in 
the proper SMBG technique in order to ensure accurate measurements. In this 
study it was shown that community pharmacies specialized in diabetes care can 
provide this service effectively.

DOI: 10.4321/s1885-642x2006000400008
PMCID: PMC4155622
PMID: 25214909


313. Prim Dent J. 2014 May;3(2):73-6. doi: 10.1308/205016814812144049.

Periodontal health--challenges in restorative dentistry.

Reeves J.

As the population ages and life expectancy increases, clinicians today find 
themselves in the wake of an ever-growing demand for high-quality aesthetic 
dental treatment, by increasingly informed patients. The long-term success of 
both cosmetic and restorative dentistry is dependent on well designed 
restorations and the health of the periodontal tissues. Overhanging 
restorations, full crown restorations with poor marginal fit, and 
implant-supported prosthetics with inadequate hygiene access all increase the 
risk for periodontal sequelae and interproximal caries. When planning 
restorative treatment, consideration should be given to the restorative design, 
the need for hygiene access and the location of intended implants. In addition, 
the patient's manual dexterity and ability to manipulate oral hygiene aids is a 
crucial consideration, as is adequate access for the hygienist to manually 
debride and maintain the restorations.

DOI: 10.1308/205016814812144049
PMID: 25215346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. Curr Opin Rheumatol. 2014 Nov;26(6):690-6. doi:
10.1097/BOR.0000000000000116.

Inclusion body myositis: update.

Lahouti AH(1), Amato AA, Christopher-Stine L.

Author information:
(1)aDivision of Rheumatology, Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, 
Baltimore, Maryland bDepartment of Neurology, Brigham and Women's Hospital, 
Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To examine new developments in sporadic inclusion body 
myositis (IBM), including updated clinical and prognostic factors, novel 
autoantibody associations, unique histopathologic findings, proposed new 
clinical diagnostic criteria, and novel therapeutic agents.
RECENT FINDINGS: IBM is a slowly progressive disease, leading to wheelchair use, 
on average, 12-20 years after onset of symptoms; however, it does not appear to 
interfere with life expectancy. Older age at the onset of first symptoms as well 
as immunosuppressive therapy are likely associated with more rapid disease 
progression. Quantitative muscle strength of knee extensor and the IBM 
functional rating scale seem to be sensitive disease progression markers and may 
be useful clinical trial outcome measures. Newly proposed diagnostic criteria 
utilize data-driven approaches with very high sensitivity and specificity. A 
novel autoantibody, as well as unique proteins seen histopathlogically, may help 
hone in on diagnosis as well as to deepen our understanding of IBM 
pathophysiology. Novel treatments, including follistatin and bimagrumab, are 
directed at potential therapeutic targets.
SUMMARY: We have observed an explosion of knowledge in IBM in the recent past, 
which challenges traditional dogma and ushers in a new era of understanding with 
potential clinical implications for those who suffer with IBM.

DOI: 10.1097/BOR.0000000000000116
PMID: 25215417 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Head Neck. 2016 Jan;38(1):85-8. doi: 10.1002/hed.23857. Epub 2015 Jan 27.

Management of the compromised airway and role of tracheotomy in anaplastic 
thyroid carcinoma.

Mani N(1), McNamara K(2), Lowe N(1), Loughran S(3), Yap BK(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, The Christie Hospital, 
Manchester, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of Otolaryngology, University Hospital of South Manchester, 
Manchester, United Kingdom.
(3)Department of Otolaryngology - Head and Neck Surgery, Central Manchester 
University Hospitals, Manchester, United Kingdom.
(4)Department of Clinical Oncology, The Christie Hospital, Manchester, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Anaplastic thyroid carcinoma (ATC) is an uncommon thyroid malignancy 
with a poor prognosis. American Thyroid Association (ATA) guidelines acknowledge 
the complexity of airway management in these patients. We studied our local 
experience with the aim of providing guidance in airway management in ATC.
METHODS: Patients with histologically confirmed ATC from January 2004 to 
December 2011 were identified from our institutional database. The data were 
retrospectively analyzed using hospital case notes.
RESULTS: Twenty-six patients were identified with ATC, 25 of who died from the 
disease. Five of 26 patients (19%) had stridor at presentation. A further 6 of 
26 patients (23%) developed stridor during or soon after radiotherapy. Nine 
patients (36%) died of airway obstruction.
CONCLUSION: Tracheotomy can facilitate completion of palliative treatment in 
those patients with ATC and stridor. Given the short life expectancy of these 
patients, a balanced decision must be made regarding the role and timing of 
tracheotomy.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hed.23857
PMID: 25215461 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. J Cardiovasc Surg (Torino). 2014 Dec;55(6):813-25. Epub 2014 Sep 12.

Contemporary management of critical lower limb ischemia in TASC D lesions with 
subintimal angioplasty in femoro-popliteal lesions, tibial angioplasty and 
sequential compression biomechanical device for infra-inguinal arterial 
occlusion. Experience and quality of life outcome learned over 25 years.

Sultan S(1), Hynes N.

Author information:
(1)Western Vascular Institute Department of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery 
Galway University Hospital, Galway, Ireland - sherif.sultan@hse.ie.

AIM: Patients with end-stage critical limb ischemia (CLI) survive on borrowed 
time and amputation is inevitable if an aggressive management stratagem is not 
instigated. Our primary aim was to equate effectiveness of subintimal 
angioplasty (SIA) and tibial balloon angioplasty (TBA) in sustaining clinical 
improvement and amputation free survival (AFS) in patients with CLI TASD II D. 
Moreover, patients with severe CLI, who were not suitable for revascularization 
and who were offered therapy with a sequential compression biomechanical device 
(SCBD) were scrutinised as part of a comprehensive lower limb salvage program.
METHODS: From 2002-2012, 5876 patients were referred with peripheral vascular 
disease (PVD); 987 presented with CLI and 798 had intervention; 189 patients 
presenting with CLI were not candidates for revascularisation, out of which 171 
were offered SCBD. We formed a prospective observational group study of 441 
patient who had TASC D disease. All of these patients presented as emergencies 
and were allocated to the next available treatment list. Duplex ultrasound 
arterial mapping (DUAM) was the sole preoperative investigation tool in 92% of 
all cases. Of the 441 patients studied, 190 patients (206 procedures) has SIA 
for TASC D femero-popliteal occlusions, 80 patients (89 procedures) had TBA and 
cool eximer laser angioplasty (CELA) for tibial artery occlusions and 171 
patients with severe CLI were not suitable for revascularization and joined the 
SCBD program. Mean age (SIA 73±13 years vs. TBA/CELA 74±8 years vs. SCBD 75±13 
years), and comorbidity severity scores (P>0.05) were similar between groups.
RESULTS: Perioperative mortality within the SIA group was 1.6% vs. 0% within the 
TBA group and 0.6% in SCBD. Length of hospital stay within the TBA group was 
3.8±2 days vs. SIA 14±16 days, P<0.0001. The 5-year freedom from major adverse 
events (MAE) for the SIA group was 68% that was comparable to the results 
obtained for both the TBA group; 59%, and SCBD group: 62.5% (P=0.1935). 
Five-year freedom from target lesion revascularization was 85.9% within the SIA 
group and 79% within the TBA group. A sustained clinical improvement was seen in 
82.8% of primary SIA and 68% of TBA, which mimics the outcome of SCBD at 68% at 
one year. A total of 83% SCBD patients had no rest pain within one week of 
starting the program and gangrene remained dry and non-progressive. Ulceration 
healed in all but 12 patients. There were no device-related complications. Limb 
salvage was 94% at 5 years. All-cause survival was 69%. Quality time spent 
without symptoms of disease or toxicity of treatment (Q-TWiST) was 24.7 months 
for SIA and 8.5 months for TBA and was 38.13 for SCBD for a total of 708 months 
of usage. Cost per quality adjusted-life years (QALY) for SIA was € 5662.79, € 
12,935.18 for TBA and € 2943.56 for SCBD.
CONCLUSION: All treatment pathways augmented patient-specific Q-TWiST with 
substantial cost reduction. SIA, TBA and SCBD expand AFS and symptom-free 
survival. All treatment modalities are minimally invasive and allow for a high 
patient turnover without compromising limb salvage, once they are performed by 
experienced vascular surgeons in high deliberate practice volume centers.

PMID: 25216216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. J Neurosurg Spine. 2014 Nov;21(5):833-6. doi: 10.3171/2014.8.SPINE148. Epub
2014  Sep 12.

Pelvic pain from a giant presacral Tarlov cyst successfully obliterated using 
aneurysm clips in a patient with Marfan syndrome.

Wang B(1), Moon SJ, Olivero WC, Wang H.

Author information:
(1)Departments of 1 Internal Medicine and.

Patients with Marfan syndrome used to succumb early in life from cardiovascular 
complications. With the current rapid advance in medical and surgical care, such 
patients may now have near-normal longevities. Consequently, rare late-life 
complications are emerging in these patients and represent challenges to 
clinicians for their diagnoses and treatments. The authors report a rare case of 
pelvic pain and genital prolapse from a giant presacral Tarlov cyst in a 
67-year-old patient with Marfan syndrome. This 67-year-old Caucasian female 
presented with progressively severe pelvic pain, intermittent explosive 
diarrhea, and dysuria. Physical and bimanual examination demonstrated genital 
prolapse and a nontender, cyst-like mass fixed in the midline. She underwent 
ultrasound, CT, and eventually MRI evaluations that led to the diagnosis of a 
giant (6.7 × 6.4 × 6.6 cm) Tarlov cyst originating from the right S-2 nerve root 
sleeve/sacral foramen with intrapelvic extension. She underwent S1-S2 and S2-S3 
laminectomy with obliteration of the Tarlov cyst using aneurysm clips. 
Postoperatively, her pelvic pain and bowel symptoms resolved and the bladder 
symptoms improved. The 3-month follow-up CT of abdomen/pelvis demonstrated 
resolution of the cyst. The present case illustrates that clinicians caring for 
elderly patients with Marfan syndrome need to increasingly recognize such 
unusual late-life complications. Also, these large Tarlov cysts can be simply 
and effectively obliterated with aneurysm clips.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.8.SPINE148
PMID: 25216402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Int Surg. 2014 Sep-Oct;99(5):523-7. doi: 10.9738/INTSURG-D-14-00030.1.

Thyroid surgery in the elderly: a comparative experience of 400 patients from an 
Italian university hospital.

Canonico S(1), Pellino G, Pameggiani D, Sciaudone G, Candilio G, De Fatico GS, 
Landino I, Marcellinaro R, Rocco F, Selvaggi L, Parmeggiani U, Selvaggi F.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical, Surgical, Neurological, Metabolic and Ageing Sciences, 
Second University of Naples, Italy.

The aim of this study was to compare disease features and surgical complications 
of patients undergoing surgery under or over 65 years of age. We performed a 
retrospective review of patients undergoing thyroidectomy or lobectomy from 
January 1990 through January 2012 in our Institution. Patients aged over 65 
years of age were compared with younger patients on a 1:1 ratio. A total of 2012 
patients were operated on during the study period. Two-hundred patients aged > 
65 years were compared with 200 patients < 65 years old. In this series, no 
significant differences were observed concerning surgical complications between 
groups. At multivariate analysis, masses causing compression, extended 
approaches and malignant lesions were significant predictors of complications, 
irrespective of age. Due to longer life expectancy, elderly patients are being 
operated on more frequently. Safety of thyroid surgery in this population is 
still debated. We observed no difference in surgical outcomes between elderly 
and younger patients; however, some features of the diseases impair survival in 
the former. Age did not increase likeliness of worse outcomes in patients 
receiving thyroid surgery.

DOI: 10.9738/INTSURG-D-14-00030.1
PMCID: PMC4253918
PMID: 25216415 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Eur J Obstet Gynecol Reprod Biol. 2014 Nov;182:22-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.ejogrb.2014.08.024. Epub 2014 Aug 27.

Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) in general population with pelvic organ 
prolapse: a study based on the prolapse quality-of-life questionnaire (P-QOL).

Svihrova V(1), Svihra J(2), Luptak J(3), Swift S(4), Digesu GA(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Jessenius Faculty of Medicine, Comenius 
University, Martin, Slovakia.
(2)Department of Urology, Jessenius School of Medicine, Comenius University, 
Martin, Slovakia. Electronic address: svihra@jfmed.uniba.sk.
(3)Department of Urology, Jessenius School of Medicine, Comenius University, 
Martin, Slovakia.
(4)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Medical University of South 
