the Cayo Santiago demographic database to construct comparative life tables 12 
years before, and 12 years after, TTI. Life tables and matrix projection models 
are used to test for differences in: (i) survival among all individuals as well 
as among social groups, (ii) long-term fitness of the population, (iii) age 
distribution, (iv) reproductive value, and (v) life expectancy. A retrospective 
life table response experiment (LTRE) was performed to determine which life 
cycle transition contributed most to observed changes in long-term fitness of 
the population post-TTI. Elimination of clinical tetanus infections through mass 
inoculation improved the health and well-being of the monkeys. It also 
profoundly affected the population by increasing survivorship and long-term 
fitness, decreasing the differences in survival rates among social groups, 
shifting the population's age distribution towards older individuals, and 
increasing reproductive value and life expectancy. These findings are 
significant because they demonstrate the long-term effects of eradicating a 
major cause of mortality at a single point in time on survival, reproduction, 
and overall demography of a naturalistic population of primates.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/ajp.22323
PMCID: PMC4308566
PMID: 25230585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: None


366. Pharmacoeconomics. 2015 Jan;33(1):61-9. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0216-0.

Validation of the underlying assumptions of the quality-adjusted life-years 
outcome: results from the ECHOUTCOME European project.

Beresniak A(1), Medina-Lara A, Auray JP, De Wever A, Praet JC, Tarricone R, 
Torbica A, Dupont D, Lamure M, Duru G.

Author information:
(1)Data Mining International, Route de l'Aéroport, 29-31, CP 221, 1215, Geneva 
15, Switzerland, aberesniak@datamining-international.com.

BACKGROUND: Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) have been used since the 1980s 
as a standard health outcome measure for conducting cost-utility analyses, which 
are often inadequately labeled as 'cost-effectiveness analyses'. This synthetic 
outcome, which combines the quantity of life lived with its quality expressed as 
a preference score, is currently recommended as reference case by some health 
technology assessment (HTA) agencies. While critics of the QALY approach have 
expressed concerns about equity and ethical issues, surprisingly, very few have 
tested the basic methodological assumptions supporting the QALY equation so as 
to establish its scientific validity.
OBJECTIVES: The main objective of the ECHOUTCOME European project was to test 
the validity of the underlying assumptions of the QALY outcome and its relevance 
in health decision making.
METHODS: An experiment has been conducted with 1,361 subjects from Belgium, 
France, Italy, and the UK. The subjects were asked to express their preferences 
regarding various hypothetical health states derived from combining different 
health states with time durations in order to compare observed utility values of 
the couples (health state, time) and calculated utility values using the QALY 
formula.
RESULTS: Observed and calculated utility values of the couples (health state, 
time) were significantly different, confirming that preferences expressed by the 
respondents were not consistent with the QALY theoretical assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: This European study contributes to establishing that the QALY 
multiplicative model is an invalid measure. This explains why costs/QALY 
estimates may vary greatly, leading to inconsistent recommendations relevant to 
providing access to innovative medicines and health technologies. HTA agencies 
should consider other more robust methodological approaches to guide 
reimbursement decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0216-0
PMID: 25230587 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. J Math Biol. 2015 Sep;71(3):583-94. doi: 10.1007/s00285-014-0831-6. Epub
2014  Sep 18.

Generalization of Carey's equality and a theorem on stationary population.

Srinivasa Rao AS(1), Carey JR.

Author information:
(1)Georgia Regents University, 1120 15th Street, Augusta, GA, 30912, USA, 
arrao@gru.edu.

Carey's Equality pertaining to stationary models is well known. In this paper, 
we have stated and proved a fundamental theorem related to the formation of this 
Equality. This theorem will provide an in-depth understanding of the role of 
each captive subject, and their corresponding follow-up duration in a stationary 
population. We have demonstrated a numerical example of a captive cohort and the 
survival pattern of medfly populations. These results can be adopted to 
understand age-structure and aging process in stationary and non-stationary 
population models.

DOI: 10.1007/s00285-014-0831-6
PMCID: PMC4842314
PMID: 25230675 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. Ann Hum Biol. 2015;42(5):447-54. doi: 10.3109/03014460.2014.955057. Epub
2014  Sep 18.

Secular trends of growth and pubertal maturation of school children in Southern 
Thailand.

Jaruratanasirikul S(1), Sriplung H(2).

Author information:
(1)a Department of Pediatrics and.
(2)b Epidemiology Unit, Faculty of Medicine , Prince of Songkla University , Hat 
Yai, Songkhla , Thailand.

BACKGROUND: In Thailand, studies of growth date back to 1975, but there have 
been no studies examining any trends in increasing/decreasing growth.
AIM: To determine if there have been any secular trends of increasing/decreasing 
growth and/or ages at puberty in Thai children.
METHODS: In 2012, a cross-sectional study of growth was conducted in 3460 
children. The median heights and weights and the ages of pubertal maturation 
were compared with previous studies. Correlations between the secular trends and 
the health statistics indicators were calculated.
RESULTS: From 1975-2012, the median final height of boys and girls had increased 
by 1.32 and 0.86 cm/decade and weight by 2.49 and 1.76 kg/decade, respectively. 
In girls, the age at thelarche and menarche had declined by 0.39 and 0.12 
years/decade, respectively. In boys, the age at testicular enlargement Tanner II 
had declined by 0.15 years/decade. Increased physical growth was positively 
correlated to life expectancy, per capita income and prevalence of 
overweight/obesity was negatively correlated to prevalence of malnutrition and 
under-five mortality rate.
CONCLUSION: The positive secular trend towards an increase in growth and a 
decline in the age at onset of puberty of Thai children is correlated with 
improvements in overall living conditions in Thailand.

DOI: 10.3109/03014460.2014.955057
PMID: 25230717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. J Biosoc Sci. 2015 Nov;47(6):707-17. doi: 10.1017/S0021932014000388. Epub
2014  Sep 18.

SURVIVAL OF CENTENARIANS IN JAPAN.

Murotani K(1), Zhou B(1), Kaneda H(1), Nakatani E(1), Kojima S(1), Nagai Y(1), 
Fukushima M(1).

Author information:
(1)*Translational Research Informatics Center, Foundation for Biomedical 
Research and Innovation,Kobe,Japan.

The objective of the study was to explore the survival trends of centenarians in 
Japan. A cohort of centenarians born between 1881 and 1900 was analysed based on 
national census data, and the average life expectancy at 100 years of age, risk 
of death and maximum age were estimated. An analysis of covariance and a Cox 
regression analysis were performed to explore the factors associated with life 
expectancy and risk of death. The death rates in centenarians tended to decrease 
with birth year, and the average life expectancy from the age of 100 slightly 
increased at a rate of 0.013 years (95% CI: 0.007-0.019) by birth year in men 
and 0.026 in women. Women had a longer life expectancy than men, with a 
difference of 0.174 years (95% CI: 0.071-0.277) at birth year 1881 and 
increasing by 0.013 years per year thereafter. The risk of death in both sexes 
decreased significantly by birth year over the course of the period analysed, 
and the risk of death in men was 1.16 (95% CI: 1.14-1.19) times that of women. 
In women, death rates at every age significantly decreased with birth year over 
the course of the period analysed until age 104. However, this trend did not 
hold true for ages 105 and older. The average life expectancy of centenarians at 
the age of 100 in Japan increased by birth year in the 1881-1900 birth cohort. 
In addition, Japanese centenarians had the lowest death rates among several 
countries.

DOI: 10.1017/S0021932014000388
PMID: 25230942 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


370. J Neuroimaging. 2015 May-Jun;25(3):505-6. doi: 10.1111/jon.12160. Epub 2014
Sep  18.

Neurofibromatosis type 1 associated with vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia and 
pontine ischemic stroke.

Giannantoni NM(1), Broccolini A, Frisullo G, Pilato F, Profice P, Morosetti R, 
Di Lella G, Zampino G, Della Marca G.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Neurology, Catholic University, Rome, Italy.

Neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1) is a heterogeneous, common, neurocutaneous 
disorder presenting different complications during a life span, including 
cerebrovascular dysplasia. To our knowledge this is the first reported case of 
NF1 associated with vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia and pontine ischemic stroke. 
We describe a 57-year-old man with NF1 who presented an acute onset right-sided 
facial palsy and hemiplegia, dysarthria, and gait imbalance. Magnetic resonance 
imaging showed an acute left paramedian pontine infarct and a hypoplastic right 
vertebral artery. Brain Computed Tomography Angiography revealed the occurrence 
of vertebrobasilar dolichoectasia. Co-occurrence of VBD and NF1 might not be 
merely casual and it may significantly heighten the mortality rate in this 
multisystem disorder. We suggest a possible role of VBD in the genesis of our 
patient's clinical-radiological features and prompt the early detection of 
asymptomatic arteriopathy in individuals with NF1 in order to ameliorate 
patients' quality of life and life expectancy.

Copyright © 2014 by the American Society of Neuroimaging.

DOI: 10.1111/jon.12160
PMID: 25230986 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


371. J Virol. 2014 Dec;88(23):13678-88. doi: 10.1128/JVI.01906-14. Epub 2014 Sep
17.

Crystal structure of herpes simplex virus 2 gD bound to nectin-1 reveals a 
conserved mode of receptor recognition.

Lu G(1), Zhang N(1), Qi J(1), Li Y(1), Chen Z(1), Zheng C(2), Gao GF(3), Yan 
J(4).

Author information:
(1)CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of 
Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(2)Soochow University, Institutes of Biology and Medical Sciences, Suzhou, 
China.
(3)CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of 
Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China Laboratory of Protein 
Engineering and Vaccines, Tianjin Institute of Industrial Biotechnology, Chinese 
Academy of Sciences, Tianjin, China Research Network of Immunity and Health 
(RNIH), Beijing Institutes of Life Science, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Beijing, China Office of Director-General, Chinese Center for Disease Control 
and Prevention (China CDC), Beijing, China.
(4)CAS Key Laboratory of Pathogenic Microbiology and Immunology, Institute of 
Microbiology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China yanjh@im.ac.cn.

Herpes simplex virus 1 (HSV-1) and HSV-2 are among the most prevalent human 
pathogens. Both viruses can recognize, via the surface envelope glycoprotein D 
(gD), human nectin-1 as a functional receptor. Previous studies have 
successfully elucidated the molecular basis of the binding between HSV-1 gD and 
nectin-1 by cocrystallography. Despite a high sequence identity between HSV-1 
and HSV-2 gDs, the atomic intermolecule details for the HSV-2-gD/nectin-1 
interaction remain elusive. Here, we report the crystal structures of both the 
unbound and the nectin-1-bound HSV-2 gDs. The free-gD structure expectedly 
comprises an IgV-like core and the surface-exposed terminal extensions as 
observed in its HSV-1 counterpart but lacks traceable electron densities for a 
large portion of the terminal elements. These terminal residues were clearly 
traced in the complex structure as a definitive loop in the N terminus and an 
α-helix in the C terminus, thereby showing a conserved nectin-1-binding mode as 
reported for HSV-1 gD. The interface residues in nectin-1 were further mutated 
and tested for the gD interaction by surface plasmon resonance. The resultant 
binding patterns were similar for HSV-1 and HSV-2 gDs, further supporting a 
homologous receptor-binding basis by the two viruses for nectin-1. These data, 
together with a cell-based fusion assay showing a cross-inhibition of the 
gD/nectin-1-mediated cell-cell fusion by soluble HSV-1 and HSV-2 gDs, provided 
solid structural and functional evidence that HSV-1 and HSV-2 recognize nectin-1 
via the same binding mode. Finally, we also demonstrated that nectin-1 I80 is an 
important residue involved in gD interaction.
IMPORTANCE: Despite intensified studies, a detailed picture of the molecular 
features in the HSV-2-gD/nectin-1 interaction remains unavailable. Previous work 
focused on HSV-1 gD, which folds into an IgV-like core with large terminal 
extensions and utilizes the extension elements to engage nectin-1. Here, we 
report the crystal structures of HSV-2 gD in both the free and the 
nectin-1-bound forms. The atomic intermolecule details for HSV-2-gD/nectin-1 
interaction are clearly presented. The observed binding mode is identical to 
that reported for its HSV-1 counterpart. This structural observation was further 
supported by our comparative functional assays showing that nectin-1 mutations 
similarly affect the ligand-receptor interaction of both virus gDs. Taken 
together, we provide comprehensive structural and functional data demonstrating 
a conserved receptor-binding mode between HSV-1 and HSV-2 for nectin-1. Our 
results also indicate that the tropism difference between the two viruses likely 
arises from aspects other than the gD/nectin-1 binding features.

Copyright © 2014, American Society for Microbiology. All Rights Reserved.

DOI: 10.1128/JVI.01906-14
PMCID: PMC4248990
PMID: 25231300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


372. Int J Stroke. 2014 Oct;9(7):856-7. doi: 10.1111/ijs.12317.

Stroke in Asia: a global disaster.

Kim JS.

Although stroke is a world-wide problem, the burden of stroke is particularly 
serious in Asia; its mortality is higher than in Europe or North America. The 
situation in Asia is dichotomized. Stroke mortality and case fatality has been 
declining in northern-eastern countries such as Korea, Japan, Taiwan, and 
urbanized areas of China. This is attributed to both the risk factor control and 
stroke care improvement. However, declining stroke incidence is rarely observed, 
which is in part due to rapidly aging population. As a result, there is an 
increase in the number of stroke survivors who require long-term, costly care. 
The extremely low birth rate and relatively insecure social health system 
markedly increases the caregiver burden. The problem in southern Asian 
countries, such as India, Pakistan, Bangladesh, and Indonesia is more 
fundamental. With the improving control of infectious diseases, life expectancy 
is prolonged. However, risk factors such as hypertension, diabetes, obesity and 
cigarette smoking become prevalent, and are poorly controlled. Stroke 
neurologists, organized stroke centers, and diagnostic tools are insufficient, 
which has resulted in high stroke fatality and mortality. Throughout Asia, the 
most urgent priority should be the primary stroke prevention through promoting a 
healthy lifestyle, e.g. low salt intake, regular physical exercise, stopping 
smoking, government sectors should take a stronger initiative to accomplish 
this. The rapidly aging populations and stroke burden will shrink the economy 
and destabilize the society, not only in Asia but also globally unless 
appropriate efforts are promptly initiated, this may result in a global 
disaster.

© 2014 World Stroke Organization.

DOI: 10.1111/ijs.12317
PMID: 25231579 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


373. J Appl Gerontol. 2014 Oct;33(7):787-90. doi: 10.1177/0733464814549286.

Activity and its importance in aging.

Gaugler JE.

DOI: 10.1177/0733464814549286
PMID: 25231753 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


374. PLoS Genet. 2014 Sep 18;10(9):e1004619. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004619. 
eCollection 2014 Sep.

Interplay of dFOXO and two ETS-family transcription factors determines lifespan 
in Drosophila melanogaster.

Alic N(1), Giannakou ME(1), Papatheodorou I(2), Hoddinott MP(3), Andrews TD(4), 
Bolukbasi E(3), Partridge L(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Healthy Ageing, and GEE, University College London, London, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Institute of Healthy Ageing, and GEE, University College London, London, 
United Kingdom; EMBL - European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome 
Campus, Hinxton, Cambridge, United Kingdom.
(3)Institute of Healthy Ageing, and GEE, University College London, London, 
United Kingdom; Max Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing, Cologne, Germany.
(4)EMBL - European Bioinformatics Institute, Wellcome Trust Genome Campus, 
Hinxton, Cambridge, United Kingdom.

Forkhead box O (FoxO) transcription factors (TFs) are key drivers of complex 
transcriptional programmes that determine animal lifespan. FoxOs regulate a 
number of other TFs, but how these TFs in turn might mediate the anti-ageing 
programmes orchestrated by FoxOs in vivo is unclear. Here, we identify an 
E-twenty six (ETS)-family transcriptional repressor, Anterior open (Aop), as 
regulated by the single Drosophila melanogaster FoxO (dFOXO) in the adult gut. 
AOP, the functional orthologue of the human Etv6/Tel protein, binds numerous 
genomic sites also occupied by dFOXO and counteracts the activity of an ETS 
activator, Pointed (Pnt), to prevent the lifespan-shortening effects of 
co-activation of dFOXO and PNT. This detrimental synergistic effect of dFOXO and 
PNT appears to stem from a mis-regulation of lipid metabolism. At the same time, 
AOP activity in another fly organ, the fat body, has further beneficial roles, 
regulating genes in common with dfoxo, such as the secreted, non-sensory, 
odorant binding protein (Obp99b), and robustly extending lifespan. Our study 
reveals a complex interplay between evolutionarily conserved ETS factors and 
dFOXO, the functional significance of which may extend well beyond animal 
lifespan.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004619
PMCID: PMC4169242
PMID: 25232726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


375. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2015 Jan;133(1):25-31. doi:
10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2014.3527.

Global burden of eye and vision disease as reflected in the Cochrane Database of 
Systematic Reviews.

Boyers LN(1), Karimkhani C(2), Hilton J(3), Richheimer W(4), Dellavalle RP(5).

Author information:
(1)Georgetown University School of Medicine, Washington, DC.
(2)Columbia University College of Physicians and Surgeons, New York, New York.
(3)Cochrane Editorial Unit, The Cochrane Collaboration, London, England.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Denver.
(5)Department of Dermatology, University of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, 
Denver6Department of Epidemiology, Colorado School of Public Health, University 
of Colorado Anschutz Medical Campus, Denver7Department of Dermatology, Denver 
Veterans Administratio.

IMPORTANCE: Eye and vision disease burden should help guide ophthalmologic 
research prioritization. The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) Study 2010 compiled 
data from 1990 to 2010 on 291 diseases and injuries, 1160 disease and injury 
sequelae, and 67 risk factors in 187 countries. The Cochrane Database of 
Systematic Reviews (CDSR) is a resource for systematic reviews in health care, 
with peer-reviewed systematic reviews that are published by Cochrane Review 
Groups.
OBJECTIVE: To determine whether systematic review and protocol topics in the 
CDSR reflect disease burden, measured by disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs), 
from the GBD 2010 project. This is one of a series of projects mapping GBD 2010 
medical field disease burdens to corresponding systematic reviews in the CDSR.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Two investigators independently assessed 8 ophthalmologic 
conditions in the CDSR for systematic review and protocol representation 
according to subject content. The 8 diseases were matched to their respective 
DALYs from the GBD 2010 project.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews systematic 
review and protocol representation and percentage of total 2010 DALYs.
RESULTS: All 8 ophthalmologic conditions were represented by at least 1 
systematic review in the CDSR. A total of 91.4% of systematic reviews and 
protocols focused on these conditions were from the Cochrane Eyes and Vision 
Group. Comparing the number of reviews and protocols with disability, only 
cataract was well matched; glaucoma, macular degeneration, and other vision loss 
were overrepresented. In comparison, trachoma, onchocerciasis, vitamin A 
deficiency, and refraction and accommodation disorders were underrepresented.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: These results prompt further investigation into why 
certain diseases are overrepresented or underrepresented in the CDSR relative to 
their DALY. With regard to ophthalmologic conditions, this study encourages that 
certain conditions get more focus to create a better representation of what is 
causing the most disability and mortality within this research database. These 
results provide high-quality and transparent data to inform future 
prioritization decisions.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2014.3527
PMID: 25232930 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


376. Curr Opin Oncol. 2014 Nov;26(6):590-9. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000132.

An update on the risk prediction and prevention of anticancer therapy-induced 
cardiotoxicity.

Bhave M(1), Shah AN, Akhter N, Rosen ST.

Author information:
(1)aInternal Medicine Residents bMedicine-Cardiology, Feinberg School of 
Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, Illinois cComprehensive Cancer 
Center, City of Hope, Duarte, California, USA *Manali Bhave and Ami N. Shah 
contributed equally to the writing of this article.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Cardiotoxicity is a well established complication of 
anticancer therapy. As cancer survivorship and life expectancy for cancer 
patients improves, the morbidity and mortality of anticancer therapy-related 
cardiotoxicity has become more problematic. It is of utmost importance to 
identify patients at the highest risk for the development of cardiotoxicity and 
to determine strategies for prevention, early detection and treatment.
RECENT FINDINGS: Clinical risk factors, biomarkers, advanced cardiac imaging and 
pharmacogenomics may be used to classify patients at risk for therapy-induced 
cardiotoxicity. A much broader armamentarium of imaging modalities for risk 
prediction, in addition to simple two-dimensional echocardiogram and 
radionucleotide angiography, has also shown clinical utility in identifying 
early-onset cardiotoxicity and areas of reversible myocardial injury. Exciting 
new research aimed at predicting cardiotoxicity and developing cardioprotective 
strategies may lead to changes in the administration of cardiotoxic 
chemotherapies.
SUMMARY: Personalized assessments of the risks and benefits of therapy should be 
used as opposed to standardized dosing and schedules. Patients at higher risk 
for cardiotoxicity should receive closer monitoring, cardioprotective agents, 
dose adjustment or alternative regimens in an effort to reduce cardiovascular 
morbidity and mortality. Future research will hopefully define specific risk 
prediction tools and clinical protocols to prevent irreversible cardiotoxicity.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000132
PMID: 25233068 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


377. Respir Care. 2014 Nov;59(11):1731-46. doi: 10.4187/respcare.02990. Epub 2014
Jul  15.

Adherence of subjects with cystic fibrosis to their home program: a systematic 
review.

O'Donohoe R(1), Fullen BM(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Population Science, Health Science 
Centre, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)School of Public Health, Physiotherapy and Population Science, Health Science 
Centre, University College Dublin, Dublin, Ireland. brona.fullen@ucd.ie.

BACKGROUND: The management of cystic fibrosis (CF) includes adherence to a home 
management program (airway clearance, medication, nutritional advice, and 
exercise). This has led to an increase in life expectancy, although the benefits 
depend greatly on a patient's level of adherence to daily treatments at home. To 
date, no systematic review has established adherence rates to all World Health 
Organization guidelines in the home setting; hence, this review was undertaken.
METHODS: The review comprised 3 phases. A methodological assessment of databases 
(Embase, CINAHL, PsychINFO, PEDro, PubMed, Cochrane Central Register of 
Controlled Trials) identified potentially relevant papers. These papers were 
screened for inclusion criteria by 2 independent reviewers, data were extracted, 
and the internal validity was rated using a valid and reliable scale. Results 
were categorized into 4 themes: medication, nutrition, airway clearance 
techniques, and exercise.
RESULTS: The search generated a total of 26 papers, 24 of which were rated as 
being poor quality. Adherence to a treatment program for CF patients is 
generally low (from 22% for nutritional guidelines to 130% for oral 
antibiotics), and it varies greatly depending on the type of treatment and the 
method of assessment employed (objective tool vs self-reported questionnaires).
CONCLUSIONS: Consensus on how to measure adherence is lacking, and the quality 
of studies addressing adherence in this population is generally poor. Overall, 
studies using self-reported measures yielded higher adherence scores than those 
that used objective measures, suggesting that current efforts to improve methods 
of adherence are appropriate. The prevalence of non-adherence remains unclear 
due to these limitations.

Copyright © 2014 by Daedalus Enterprises.

DOI: 10.4187/respcare.02990
PMID: 25233386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


378. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 18;9(9):e108061. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108061. 
eCollection 2014.

A universal approach to prepare reagents for DNA-assisted protein analysis.

Yan J(1), Gu GJ(2), Jost C(3), Hammond M(1), Plückthun A(3), Landegren U(1), 
Kamali-Moghaddam M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden.
(2)Department of Immunology, Genetics and Pathology, Science for Life 
Laboratory, Uppsala University, Uppsala, Sweden; Department of Genetics, 
Stanford University, Palo Alto, California, United States of America.
(3)Department of Biochemistry, University of Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

The quality of DNA-labeled affinity probes is critical in DNA-assisted protein 
analyses, such as proximity ligation and extension assays, immuno-PCR, and 
immuno-rolling circle amplification reactions. Efficient, high-performance 
methods are therefore required for isolation of pure conjugates from reactions 
where DNA strands have been coupled to antibodies or recombinant affinity 
reagents. Here we describe a universal, scalable approach for preparing 
high-quality oligonucleotide-protein conjugates by sequentially removing any 
unconjugated affinity reagents and remaining free oligonucleotides from 
conjugation reactions. We applied the approach to generate high-quality probes 
using either antibodies or recombinant affinity reagents. The purified 
high-grade probes were used in proximity ligation assays in solution and in 
situ, demonstrating both augmented assay sensitivity and improved 
signal-to-noise ratios.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108061
PMCID: PMC4169473
PMID: 25233463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: U. Landegren is co-founder 
and stockholder of the Olink Bioscience that commercializes the PLA technology. 
A. Plückthun is a co-founder and stockholder of Molecular Partners AG, having 
rights to the DARPin technology. This does not alter the authors’ adherence to 
all the PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


379. Hist Sci Med. 2014 Apr-Jun;48(2):189-97.

[Aging in the Amazon rainforest: challenges and prospects].

[Article in French]

Ribeiror EE.

PMID: 25233530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


380. Med Econ. 2014 May 25;91(10):16.

Value now a component in development of guidelines and performance measures.

Krader CG.

PMID: 25233745 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


381. J Surg Res. 2015 Feb;193(2):754-63. doi: 10.1016/j.jss.2014.08.021. Epub
2014  Aug 20.

Invasive procedures in the elderly after stage IV cancer diagnosis.

Kwok AC(1), Hu YY(2), Dodgion CM(3), Jiang W(4), Ting GV(5), Taback N(5), 
Lipsitz SR(4), Weeks JC(5), Greenberg CC(6).

Author information:
(1)Center for Surgery and Public Health, Department of Surgery, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Health Policy and 
Management, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, Massachusetts; Department 
of Plastic & Reconstructive Surgery, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt 
Lake City, Utah.
(2)Center for Surgery and Public Health, Department of Surgery, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; Department of Surgery, Beth Israel 
Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts. Electronic address: 
yhu@bidmc.harvard.edu.
(3)Center for Surgery and Public Health, Department of Surgery, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; Wisconsin Surgical Outcomes Research 
(WiSOR) Program, Department of Surgery, University of Wisconsin Hospitals & 
Clinics, Madison, Wisconsin.
(4)Center for Surgery and Public Health, Department of Surgery, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)Center for Outcomes and Policy Research, Department of Medical Oncology, 
Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.
(6)Center for Surgery and Public Health, Department of Surgery, Brigham and 
Women's Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts; Wisconsin Surgical Outcomes Research 
(WiSOR) Program, Department of Surgery, University of Wisconsin Hospitals & 
Clinics, Madison, Wisconsin; Center for Outcomes and Policy Research, Department 
of Medical Oncology, Dana-Farber Cancer Institute, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Invasive procedures are resource intense and may be associated with 
substantial morbidity. These harms must be carefully balanced with the benefits 
gained in life expectancy and quality of life. Prior research has demonstrated 
an increasing aggressiveness of care in cancer patients at the end-of-life. To 
better characterize surgical care in this setting, we sought to examine trends 
in the use of invasive procedures in patients diagnosed with metastatic cancer 
on presentation.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Using Surveillance Epidemiology and End Results -Medicare 
data, we identified invasive procedure claims from 1994-2009 for patients 
diagnosed with incident stage IV breast, colorectal, lung, and prostate cancer 
patients in 1995-2006. We grouped procedures into surgically relevant 
categories, using an adaptation of the Clinical Classifications Software, and 
measured utilization and relative changes over time.
RESULTS: Of stage IV patients diagnosed in 2002-2006, 96% underwent a procedure 
during the course of their cancer care including 63% after the diagnostic 
period, and 25% in the last month of life. Between 1996 and 2006, minimal change 
was observed in utilization during the diagnostic period (+1.5%). However, there 
were significant increases during continuing care (+20.7%) and the last month of 
life (+21.5%). Procedures consistent with primary tumor resection decreased, 
whereas those with probable palliative intent and those unrelated to cancer 
increased.
CONCLUSIONS: Nearly all patients who present with metastatic cancer undergo 
invasive procedures. Although overall utilization is increasing, the specific 
procedure types indicate that it may be appropriate, enhancing the quality of 
life in this vulnerable population.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jss.2014.08.021
PMCID: PMC4791166
PMID: 25234747 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


382. Chem Biol Interact. 2014 Nov 5;223:45-50. doi: 10.1016/j.cbi.2014.09.005.
Epub  2014 Sep 16.

Anti-neurotoxicity effects of oxoisoaporphine-lipoic acid hybrids.

Chen W(1), Wu Y(2), Zhong S(2), Cheng L(1), Li Q(3), Tang H(4).

Author information:
(1)Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medicine University, Guilin City, Guangxi, 
China.
(2)State Key Laboratory Cultivation Base for the Chemistry and Molecular 
Engineering of Medicinal Resources, School of Chemistry and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences of Guangxi Normal University, Guilin City, Guangxi, China.
(3)Affiliated Hospital of Guilin Medicine University, Guilin City, Guangxi, 
China. Electronic address: qhli1999@163.com.
(4)State Key Laboratory Cultivation Base for the Chemistry and Molecular 
Engineering of Medicinal Resources, School of Chemistry and Pharmaceutical 
Sciences of Guangxi Normal University, Guilin City, Guangxi, China. Electronic 
address: hyhth@163.com.

Four oxoisoaporphine-lipoic acid hybrids were designed, synthesized, and 
investigated in this study. To develop the hybrids, the oxoisoaporphine fragment 
was used for its inhibition of cholinesterases and β-amyloid (Aβ) aggregation, 
while the unit of lipoic acid was used for its radical-capturing and 
neuroprotective effects. The hybrids exhibited moderate inhibitory effects on 
the activity of acetylcholinesterase (AChE), with IC50 values in the micromolar 
range and low toxicity in SH-SY5Y cells. Moreover, the learning and memory 
abilities, climbing capability, and average life expectancy of the Aβ42 
transgenic Drosophila were all significantly improved by the hybrids. They also 
enhanced the intracephalic antioxidant activity, the metabolism, and the 
activity cholinesterase in the flies. More strikingly, Aβ42 aggregation in the 
hybrids-treated Drosophila was attenuated with effective neuroprotection. Our 
results indicate the potential of using these oxoisoaporphine-lipoic acid 
hybrids in AD treatments.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cbi.2014.09.005
PMID: 25234849 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


383. Mol Neurobiol. 2014 Aug;50(1):1-5. doi: 10.1007/s12035-014-8897-0. Epub 2014
Sep  19.

Is there a molecular logic that sustains neuronal functional integrity and 
survival? Lipid signaling is necessary for neuroprotective neuronal 
transcriptional programs.

Bazan NG(1).

Author information:
(1)Neuroscience Center of Excellence, Louisiana State University Health Sciences 
Center, 2020 Gravier Street, Suite D, New Orleans, LA, 70112, USA, 
NBazan@lsuhsc.edu.

A challenge to civilization is the growing incidence in the loss of sight and 
cognition due to increased life expectancy. Therefore, we are confronted with a 
rise in the occurrence of photoreceptor- and neuronal-survival failure, as 
reflected mainly by age-related macular degeneration (AMD) and Alzheimer's 
disease (AD). Nervous system development is driven by neuronal apoptotic cell 
death, and thereafter, for the entire lifespan of an organism, neurons are 
postmitotic cells. In neurodegenerative diseases, apoptosis and other forms of 
cells death lead to selective neuronal loss. Although age is the main risk 
factor, not everyone develops these diseases during aging. Despite decades of 
important findings about neuronal cell death, the specific mechanisms that 
regulate neuronal survival remain incompletely understood.

DOI: 10.1007/s12035-014-8897-0
PMCID: PMC4381928
PMID: 25236258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


384. Clin J Am Soc Nephrol. 2014 Nov 7;9(11):1988-92. doi: 10.2215/CJN.02250314.
Epub  2014 Sep 18.

Routine screening for CKD should be done in asymptomatic adults... selectively.

Berns JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Renal, Electrolyte, and Hypertension Division, Perelman School of Medicine of 
the University of Pennsylvania, Hospital of the University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania bernsj@uphs.upenn.edu.

CKD is an important public health problem associated with substantial morbidity, 
impaired quality of life, shortened life expectancy, and excessive health care 
costs. Given its long preclinical latency, screening of asymptomatic individuals 
for CKD has been considered as a potentially useful means of early detection, 
with a goal of reducing CKD progression and its complications. A recent clinical 
practice guideline from the American College of Physicians that recommended 
against screening for CKD in asymptomatic adults without risk factors has 
reignited debate regarding CKD screening. Despite the lack of randomized 
controlled trial evidence showing benefits of CKD screening, even among 
individuals at increased risk for CKD, such as those with diabetes or 
hypertension or who are of certain high-risk racial or ethnic groups, a 
thoughtful and selective approach to CKD screening seems to be cost-effective 
and clinically valuable. CKD screening is recommended by several nephrology 
professional societies and appropriate in at-risk asymptomatic individuals with 
the intent of identifying and managing CKD, diagnosing the etiology of CKD, 
limiting or preventing CKD progression and its associated cardiovascular disease 
risk, and minimizing risk of AKI, inappropriate drug dosing, and nephrotoxic 
injury.

Copyright © 2014 by the American Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.2215/CJN.02250314
PMCID: PMC4220752
PMID: 25237073 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


385. Am Health Drug Benefits. 2014 Aug;7(5):272-82.

Offering lung cancer screening to high-risk medicare beneficiaries saves lives 
and is cost-effective: an actuarial analysis.

Pyenson BS(1), Henschke CI(2), Yankelevitz DF(3), Yip R(4), Dec E(5).

Author information:
(1)Principal & Consulting Actuary, Milliman, Inc, New York.
(2)Clinical Professor, Radiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.
(3)Professor, Radiology, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai.
(4)Senior Biostatistician, Icahn School of Medicine at Mount Sinai, New York.
(5)Actuary, Milliman, Inc, New York.

BACKGROUND: By a wide margin, lung cancer is the most significant cause of 
cancer death in the United States and worldwide. The incidence of lung cancer 
increases with age, and Medicare beneficiaries are often at increased risk. 
Because of its demonstrated effectiveness in reducing mortality, lung cancer 
screening with low-dose computed tomography (LDCT) imaging will be covered 
without cost-sharing starting January 1, 2015, by nongrandfathered commercial 
plans. Medicare is considering coverage for lung cancer screening.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost and cost-effectiveness (ie, cost per life-year 
saved) of LDCT lung cancer screening of the Medicare population at high risk for 
lung cancer.
METHODS: Medicare costs, enrollment, and demographics were used for this study; 
they were derived from the 2012 Centers for Medicare & Medicaid Services (CMS) 
beneficiary files and were forecast to 2014 based on CMS and US Census Bureau 
projections. Standard life and health actuarial techniques were used to 
calculate the cost and cost-effectiveness of lung cancer screening. The cost, 
incidence rates, mortality rates, and other parameters chosen by the authors 
were taken from actual Medicare data, and the modeled screenings are consistent 
with Medicare processes and procedures.
RESULTS: Approximately 4.9 million high-risk Medicare beneficiaries would meet 
criteria for lung cancer screening in 2014. Without screening, Medicare patients 
newly diagnosed with lung cancer have an average life expectancy of 
approximately 3 years. Based on our analysis, the average annual cost of LDCT 
lung cancer screening in Medicare is estimated to be $241 per person screened. 
LDCT screening for lung cancer in Medicare beneficiaries aged 55 to 80 years 
with a history of ≥30 pack-years of smoking and who had smoked within 15 years 
is low cost, at approximately $1 per member per month. This assumes that 50% of 
these patients were screened. Such screening is also highly cost-effective, at 
<$19,000 per life-year saved.
CONCLUSION: If all eligible Medicare beneficiaries had been screened and treated 
consistently from age 55 years, approximately 358,134 additional individuals 
with current or past lung cancer would be alive in 2014. LDCT screening is a 
low-cost and cost-effective strategy that fits well within the standard Medicare 
benefit, including its claims payment and quality monitoring.

PMCID: PMC4163779
PMID: 25237423


386. FEMS Yeast Res. 2014 Dec;14(8):1147-59. doi: 10.1111/1567-1364.12214. Epub
2014  Oct 21.

Protection against cisplatin in calorie-restricted Saccharomyces cerevisiae is 
mediated by the nutrient-sensor proteins Ras2, Tor1, or Sch9 through its target 
glutathione.

Mariani D(1), Castro FA, Almeida LG, Fonseca FL, Pereira MD.

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Bioquímica, Instituto de Química, Universidade Federal do Rio 
de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, RJ, Brazil.

There is substantial interest in developing alternative strategies for cancer 
chemotherapy aiming to increase drug specificity and prevent tumor resistance. 
Calorie restriction (CR) has been shown to render human cancer cells more 
susceptible to drugs than normal cells. Indeed, deficiency of nutrient signaling 
proteins mimics CR, which is sufficient to improve oxidative stress response and 
life expectancy only in healthy cells. Thus, although CR and reduction of 
nutrient signaling may play an important role in cellular response to 
chemotherapy, the full underlying mechanisms are still not completely 
understood. Here, we investigate the relationship between the nutrient sensor 
proteins Ras2, Sch9, or Tor1 and the response of calorie-restricted 
Saccharomyces cerevisiae cells to cisplatin. Using wild-type and 
nutrient-sensing mutant strains, we show that deletion of any of these proteins 
mimics CR and is sufficient to increase cell protection. Moreover, we show that 
glutathione (GSH) is essential for proper CR protection of yeast cells under 
cisplatin chemotherapy. By measuring the survival rates and GSH levels, we found 
that cisplatin cytotoxicity leads to a decrease in GSH content reflecting in an 
increase of oxidative damage. Finally, investigating DNA fragmentation and 
apoptosis, we conclude that GSH contributes to CR-mediated cell survival.

© 2014 Federation of European Microbiological Societies. Published by John Wiley 
& Sons Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1111/1567-1364.12214
PMID: 25238629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Eur Spine J. 2014 Nov;23(11):2375-84. doi: 10.1007/s00586-014-3588-0. Epub
2014  Sep 20.

Measurement of the number of lumbar spinal movements in the sagittal plane in a 
24-hour period.

Rohlmann A(1), Consmüller T, Dreischarf M, Bashkuev M, Disch A, Pries E, Duda 
GN, Schmidt H.

Author information:
(1)Julius Wolff Institute, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, Augustenburger 
Platz 1, 13353, Berlin, Germany, antonius.rohlmann@charite.de.

PURPOSE: Little is known about the number of spinal movements in the sagittal 
plane in daily life, mainly due to the lack of adequate techniques to assess 
these movements. Our aim was to measure these movements in asymptomatic 
volunteers.
METHODS: Two sensor strips based on strain gauge technology (Epionics SPINE 
system) were fixed on the skin surface of the back parallel to the spine on a 
total of 208 volunteers without back pain. First, the lordosis angle was 
determined during relaxed standing. The volunteers were then released to daily 
life. The increases and decreases in the back lumbar lordosis angle over a 
period of 24 h were determined and classified into 5° increments. Changes in the 
lordosis angle greater than 5° were considered.
RESULTS: The median number of spinal movements performed within 24 h was 
approximately 4,400. Of these movements, 66 % were between 5° and 10°. The 
proportions of higher-magnitude lordosis angle changes were much lower (e.g., 3 
% for the 20-25° movement bin). Surprisingly, the median total number of 
movements was significantly higher (29 %) in women than in men. Large 
inter-individual differences were observed in the number of movements performed. 
The volunteers spent a median of 4.9 h with the lumbar spine flexed between 20° 
and 30° and only 24 min with the spine extended relative to the reference 
standing position. A median of 50 movements reached or exceeded full-flexion 
angle and zero movements full-extension angle.
CONCLUSIONS: These data illustrate the predominantly small range of movement of 
the spine during daily activities and the small amount of time spent in 
extension. These unique data strongly contribute to the understanding of 
patients' everyday behavior, which might affect the development and testing of 
spinal implants and the evaluation of surgical and nonsurgical treatments.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-014-3588-0
PMID: 25238799 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. Vaccine. 2014 Oct 21;32(46):6075-83. doi: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.08.085.
Epub  2014 Sep 18.

Cost-effectiveness of seasonal influenza vaccination in pregnant women, health 
care workers and persons with underlying illnesses in Belgium.

Blommaert A(1), Bilcke J(2), Vandendijck Y(3), Hanquet G(4), Hens N(5), Beutels 
P(6).

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics Research and Modelling Infectious Diseases 
(CHERMID), Vaccine & Infectious Disease Institute (VAXINFECTIO), University of 
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium; Interuniversity Institute for Biostatistics and 
statistical Bioinformatics (I-BIOSTAT), Hasselt University, Hasselt, Belgium. 
Electronic address: adriaan.blommaert@uantwerp.be.
(2)Centre for Health Economics Research and Modelling Infectious Diseases 
(CHERMID), Vaccine & Infectious Disease Institute (VAXINFECTIO), University of 
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium.
(3)Interuniversity Institute for Biostatistics and statistical Bioinformatics 
(I-BIOSTAT), Hasselt University, Hasselt, Belgium.
(4)Belgian Health Care Knowledge Centre (KCE), Brussels, Belgium.
(5)Centre for Health Economics Research and Modelling Infectious Diseases 
(CHERMID), Vaccine & Infectious Disease Institute (VAXINFECTIO), University of 
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium; Interuniversity Institute for Biostatistics and 
statistical Bioinformatics (I-BIOSTAT), Hasselt University, Hasselt, Belgium.
(6)Centre for Health Economics Research and Modelling Infectious Diseases 
(CHERMID), Vaccine & Infectious Disease Institute (VAXINFECTIO), University of 
Antwerp, Antwerp, Belgium; School of Public Health and Community Medicine, The 
University of New South Wales, Sydney, Australia.

Risk groups with increased vulnerability for influenza complications such as 
pregnant women, persons with underlying illnesses as well as persons who come 
into contact with them, such as health care workers, are currently given 
priority (along with other classic target groups) to receive seasonal influenza 
vaccination in Belgium. We aimed to evaluate this policy from a health care 
payer perspective by cost-effectiveness analysis in the three specific target 
groups above, while accounting for effects beyond the target group. Increasing 
the coverage of influenza vaccination is likely to be cost-effective for 
pregnant women (median €6589 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained 
[€4073-€10,249]) and health care workers (median €24,096/QALY gained 
[€16,442-€36,342]), if this can be achieved without incurring additional 
administration costs. Assuming an additional physician's consult is charged to 
administer each additional vaccine dose, the cost-effectiveness of vaccinating 
pregnant women depends strongly on the extent of its impact on the neonate's 
health. For health care workers, the assumed number of preventable secondary 
infections has a strong influence on the cost-effectiveness. Vaccinating people 
with underlying illnesses is likely highly cost-effective above 50 years of age 
and borderline cost-effective for younger persons, depending on relative life 
expectancy and vaccine efficacy in this risk group compared to the general 
population. The case-fatality ratios of the target group, of the secondary 
affected groups and vaccine efficacy are key sources of uncertainty.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.vaccine.2014.08.085
PMID: 25239481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. Life Sci. 2014 Nov 24;118(2):97-109. doi: 10.1016/j.lfs.2014.09.009. Epub
2014  Sep 18.

Aging and endothelin: determinants of disease.

Barton M(1).

Author information:
(1)Molecular Internal Medicine, University of Zurich, Zürich, Switzerland. 
Electronic address: barton@access.uzh.ch.

Since the beginning of the 20th century human life expectancy has doubled to 
more than 80 years, and growth and aging of the world population now represent 
major challenges for healthcare providers, political decision makers, and 
societies. Cellular senescence is associated with a general, pro-inflammatory 
state, which represents the common denominator between aging and chronic 
diseases and their progression. Approaches to interfere with these changes and 
to allow healthy aging involve modulation of the cellular activity of modifiable 
molecular mediators (MMMs), such as signaling molecules and growth factors. ET-1 
- the biologically predominant member of the endothelin peptide family - is an 
endothelial cell-derived peptide with a wide variety of developmental and 
physiological functions, which include embryogenesis, nociception, and 
natriuresis. In addition, ET-1 is a cytokine-like, multifunctional peptide with 
pro-inflammatory, mitogenic, and vasoconstrictor properties. If produced in 
excess amounts ET-1 promotes disease - mainly via activation of its ETA 
receptor. Because of its multiple disease-promoting functions ET-1 represents an 
ideal target MMM. Preclinical studies targeting either activity or production of 
ET-1 - utilizing ERAs, ARBs, or ACEIs, respectively - have demonstrated that 
partial regression of aging-associated changes in vasculature and kidney is 
possible. In this article I will review the molecular regulation of ET-1 and its 
role in the physiology of vascular homeostasis, aging, and cellular senescence. 
The clinical implications of activators of ET-1 overproduction, modalities for 
delaying or reversing aging-related cellular changes, as well as interventions 
to promote healthy aging and early disease prevention - particularly physical 
activity - are discussed.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lfs.2014.09.009
PMID: 25239727 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. Arch Dis Child. 2015 Jan;100(1):48-53. doi:
10.1136/archdischild-2013-303773.  Epub 2014 Sep 19.

Sickle cell disease: a neglected chronic disease of increasing global health 
importance.

Chakravorty S(1), Williams TN(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Imperial College, London, UK.
(2)Department of Medicine, Imperial College, London, UK KEMRI-Wellcome Trust 
Research Programme, Kilifi, Kenya.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) is a single gene disorder causing a debilitating 
systemic syndrome characterised by chronic anaemia, acute painful episodes, 
organ infarction and chronic organ damage and by a significant reduction in life 
expectancy. The origin of SCD lies in the malarial regions of the tropics where 
carriers are protected against death from malaria and hence enjoy an 
evolutionary advantage. More recently, population migration has meant that SCD 
now has a worldwide distribution and that a substantial number of children are 
born with the condition in higher-income areas, including large parts of Europe 
and North and South America. Newborn screening, systematic clinical follow-up 
and prevention of sepsis and organ damage have led to an increased life 
expectancy among people with SCD in many such countries; however, in 
resource-limited settings where the majority continue to be born, most affected 
children continue to die in early childhood, usually undiagnosed, due to the 
lack of effective programmes for its early detection and treatment. As new 
therapies emerge, potentially leading to disease amelioration or cure, it is of 
paramount importance that the significant burden of SCD in resource-poor 
