Grootjans-van Kampen I(1), Engelfriet PM(2), van Baal PH(3).

Author information:
(1)Education and Student Affairs, Technical University, Delft, The Netherlands.
(2)Centre for Prevention and Health Services Research, Institute for Public 
Health and the Environment, Bilthoven, The Netherlands.
(3)Institute of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Disease prevention has been claimed to reduce health care costs. 
However, preventing lethal diseases increases life expectancy and, thereby, 
indirectly increases the demand for health care. Previous studies have argued 
that on balance preventing diseases that reduce longevity increases health care 
costs while preventing non-fatal diseases could lead to health care savings. The 
objective of this research is to investigate if disease prevention could result 
in both increased longevity and lower lifetime health care costs.
METHODS: Mortality rates for Netherlands in 2009 were used to construct 
cause-deleted life tables. Data originating from the Dutch Costs of Illness 
study was incorporated in order to estimate lifetime health care costs in the 
absence of selected disease categories. We took into account that for most 
diseases health care expenditures are concentrated in the last year of life.
RESULTS: Elimination of diseases that reduce life expectancy considerably 
increase lifetime health care costs. Exemplary are neoplasms that, when 
eliminated would increase both life expectancy and lifetime health care spending 
with roughly 5% for men and women. Costs savings are incurred when prevention 
has only a small effect on longevity such as in the case of mental and 
behavioural disorders. Diseases of the circulatory system stand out as their 
elimination would increase life expectancy while reducing health care spending.
CONCLUSION: The stronger the negative impact of a disease on longevity, the 
higher health care costs would be after elimination. Successful treatment of 
fatal diseases leaves less room for longevity gains due to effective prevention 
but more room for health care savings.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104469
PMCID: PMC4130534
PMID: 25116681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Pieter van Baal is an AE 
for PLOS One. This does not alter the authors' adherence to PLOS ONE Editorial 
policies and criteria.


20. Br J Pharmacol. 2014 Dec;171(24):5757-73. doi: 10.1111/bph.12875.

Neuroprotective effects of the anti-cancer drug sunitinib in models of HIV 
neurotoxicity suggests potential for the treatment of neurodegenerative 
disorders.

Wrasidlo W(1), Crews LA, Tsigelny IF, Stocking E, Kouznetsova VL, Price D, 
Paulino A, Gonzales T, Overk CR, Patrick C, Rockenstein E, Masliah E.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA.

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Anti-retrovirals have improved and extended the life 
expectancy of patients with HIV. However, as this population ages, the 
prevalence of cognitive changes is increasing. Aberrant activation of kinases, 
such as receptor tyrosine kinases (RTKs) and cyclin-dependent kinase 5 (CDK5), 
play a role in the mechanisms of HIV neurotoxicity. Inhibitors of CDK5, such as 
roscovitine, have neuroprotective effects; however, CNS penetration is low. 
Interestingly, tyrosine kinase inhibitors (TKIs) display some CDK inhibitory 
activity and ability to cross the blood-brain barrier.
EXPERIMENTAL APPROACH: We screened a small group of known TKIs for a candidate 
with additional CDK5 inhibitory activity and tested the efficacy of the 
candidate in in vitro and in vivo models of HIV-gp120 neurotoxicity.
KEY RESULTS: Among 12 different compounds, sunitinib inhibited CDK5 with an IC50 
of 4.2 μM. In silico analysis revealed that, similarly to roscovitine, sunitinib 
fitted 6 of 10 features of the CDK5 pharmacophore. In a cell-based model, 
sunitinib reduced CDK5 phosphorylation (pCDK5), calpain-dependent p35/p25 
conversion and protected neuronal cells from the toxic effects of gp120. In 
glial fibrillary acidic protein-gp120 transgenic (tg) mice, sunitinib reduced 
levels of pCDK5, p35/p25 and phosphorylated tau protein, along with amelioration 
of the neurodegenerative pathology.
CONCLUSIONS AND IMPLICATIONS: Compounds such as sunitinib with dual kinase 
inhibitory activity could ameliorate the cognitive impairment associated with 
chronic HIV infection of the CNS. Moreover, repositioning existing low MW 
compounds holds promise for the treatment of patients with neurodegenerative 
disorders.

© 2014 The British Pharmacological Society.

DOI: 10.1111/bph.12875
PMCID: PMC4290715
PMID: 25117211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. Prev Med. 2014 Oct;67:295-302. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2014.08.007. Epub 2014
Aug  9.

The status of men's health in Asia.

Ng CJ(1), Teo CH(2), Ho CC(3), Tan WP(4), Tan HM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary Care Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Malaya, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia. Electronic address: ngcj@um.edu.my.
(2)Department of Primary Care Medicine, Faculty of Medicine, University of 
Malaya, Kuala Lumpur 50603, Malaysia.
(3)Department of Surgery, Faculty of Medicine, National University of Malaysia, 
Bangi 43600, Selangor, Malaysia.
(4)Department of Surgery, Thomas Jefferson University Hospital, 111 S 11th St, 
Philadelphia, PA, United States.

Erratum in
    Prev Med. 2015 Feb;71:49.

OBJECTIVES: This study aims to compare health status and its risk factors 
between men and women who are from countries of different income status in Asia.
METHOD: We have included 47 Asian countries and 2 regions in this study. Life 
expectancy, mortality rate from communicable disease, non-communicable disease 
and injuries, the prevalence of non-communicable diseases risk factors and their 
trends were extracted from the WHO and respective governmental database. 
Subgroup analysis was performed based on country income groups.
RESULTS: Overall, men have shorter life expectancy and higher mortality rates 
compared to women. Men from higher-income countries lived longer compared to men 
from lower-income countries. There is a wide variation of male life expectancy 
in upper and lower middle income countries. The mean systolic blood pressure, 
fasting blood glucose and body mass index in Asia have also increased over the 
years.
CONCLUSION: This study confirms that Asian men have poorer health compared to 
women besides the growing concerns on NCD risk factors. The findings from this 
study calls for a concerted effort to find solutions in addressing men's health 
problems in Asia.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2014.08.007
PMID: 25117523 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. J Math Biol. 2014 Oct;69(4):1027-56. doi: 10.1007/s00285-014-0821-8. Epub
2014  Aug 13.

State-dependent neutral delay equations from population dynamics.

Barbarossa MV(1), Hadeler KP, Kuttler C.

Author information:
(1)Bolyai Institute, University of Szeged, Aradi vértanúk tere 1, Szeged, 6720, 
Hungary, barbarossamv@gmail.com.

A novel class of state-dependent delay equations is derived from the balance 
laws of age-structured population dynamics, assuming that birth rates and death 
rates, as functions of age, are piece-wise constant and that the length of the 
juvenile phase depends on the total adult population size. The resulting class 
of equations includes also neutral delay equations. All these equations are very 
different from the standard delay equations with state-dependent delay since the 
balance laws require non-linear correction factors. These equations can be 
written as systems for two variables consisting of an ordinary differential 
equation (ODE) and a generalized shift, a form suitable for numerical 
calculations. It is shown that the neutral equation (and the corresponding 
ODE--shift system) is a limiting case of a system of two standard delay 
equations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00285-014-0821-8
PMID: 25117688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. Clin Gastroenterol Hepatol. 2015 Feb;13(2):302-309.e11. doi: 
10.1016/j.cgh.2014.07.058. Epub 2014 Aug 10.

The benefit-to-risk balance of combining infliximab with azathioprine varies 
with age: a markov model.

Scott FI(1), Vajravelu RK(2), Bewtra M(3), Mamtani R(3), Lee D(4), Goldberg 
DS(3), Lewis JD(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Center for Clinical Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania. Electronic address: frankis@mail.med.upenn.edu.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Center for Clinical Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, Perelman School of Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, 
Philadelphia, Pennsylvania.
(4)Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Perelman School of 
Medicine, University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, Pennsylvania; Division of 
Gastroenterology, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Combination therapy with infliximab and azathioprine has 
demonstrated benefit over monotherapy for moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease. 
Clinical trials and models have not accounted for age-specific risks associated 
with these therapies, including the risk of immunosuppression-related cancer and 
infection. After accounting for these risks, the strategy yielding the greatest 
benefit may vary with age.
METHODS: We assessed age-specific risks and benefits of combination therapy 
compared with infliximab monotherapy by using Markov modeling. The base case was 
a 35-year-old male patient with a 1-year time horizon. We assumed the incidence 
of lymphoma to be 5.28-fold higher with combination therapy. Secondary analyses 
accounted for life expectancy, therapy beyond 1 year, and age-specific surgical 
and infection risks. Quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were calculated for 25- 
to 75-year old individuals.
RESULTS: Combination therapy was found to be of greater benefit in the base case 
(0.7522 QALYs for combination therapy vs 0.7426 QALYs for monotherapy). 
Accounting for life years lost, monotherapy was the best approach if the hazard 
ratio for lymphoma with combination therapy was >8.1 patients who were 75 years 
old. Monotherapy provided greater net benefit to patients 55, 65, or 75 years 
old if therapy was extended for 9, 7, or 5 years, respectively. For 25-year-old 
men, monotherapy resulted in fewer deaths but only yielded greater QALYs if the 
annual incidence of hepatosplenic T-cell lymphoma exceeded 36/100,000 persons.
CONCLUSIONS: After accounting for age-specific risks of lymphoma, infection, and 
surgical complications, benefits of combination therapy outweighed the risks as 
a short-term and intermediate-term strategy for most patients with 
moderate-to-severe Crohn's disease who were younger than 65 years. For young 
male patients, combination therapy yields greater QALYs but at cost of an 
increased risk of death from lymphoma.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cgh.2014.07.058
PMCID: PMC4324381
PMID: 25117775 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. BMC Cancer. 2014 Aug 12;14:586. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-586.

Real world costs and cost-effectiveness of Rituximab for diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma patients: a population-based analysis.

Khor S, Beca J, Krahn M, Hodgson D, Lee L, Crump M, Bremner KE, Luo J, Mamdani 
M, Bell CM, Sawka C, Gavura S, Sullivan T, Trudeau M, Peacock S, Hoch JS(1).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacoeconomics Research Unit, Cancer Care Ontario, Toronto, Canada. 
Jeffrey.hoch@utoronto.ca.

BACKGROUND: Current treatment of diffuse-large-B-cell lymphoma (DLBCL) includes 
rituximab, an expensive drug, combined with cyclophosphamide, doxorubicin, 
vincristine, and prednisone (CHOP) chemotherapy. Economic models have predicted 
rituximab plus CHOP (RCHOP) to be a cost-effective alternative to CHOP alone as 
first-line treatment of DLBCL, but it remains unclear what its real-world costs 
and cost-effectiveness are in routine clinical practice.
METHODS: We performed a population-based retrospective cohort study from 1997 to 
2007, using linked administrative databases in Ontario, Canada, to evaluate the 
costs and cost-effectiveness of RCHOP compared to CHOP alone. A historical 
control cohort (n = 1,099) with DLBCL who received CHOP before rituximab 
approval was hard-matched on age and treatment intensity and then 
propensity-score matched on sex, comorbidity, and histology to 1,099 RCHOP 
patients. All costs and outcomes were adjusted for censoring using the inverse 
probability weighting method. The main outcome measure was incremental cost per 
life-year gained (LYG).
RESULTS: Rituximab was associated with a life expectancy increase of 3.2 months 
over 5 years at an additional cost of $16,298, corresponding to an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of $61,984 (95% CI $34,087-$135,890) per LYG. The 
probability of being cost-effective was 90% if the willingness-to-pay threshold 
was $100,000/LYG. The cost-effectiveness ratio was most favourable for patients 
less than 60 years old ($31,800/LYG) but increased to $80,600/LYG for patients 
60-79 years old and $110,100/LYG for patients ≥ 80 years old. We found that 
post-market survival benefits of rituximab are similar to or lower than those 
reported in clinical trials, while the costs, incremental costs and 
cost-effectiveness ratios are higher than in published economic models and 
differ by age.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results showed that the addition of rituximab to standard CHOP 
chemotherapy was associated with improvement in survival but at a higher cost, 
and was potentially cost-effective by standard thresholds for patients <60 years 
old. However, cost-effectiveness decreased significantly with age, suggesting 
that rituximab may be not as economically attractive in the very elderly on 
average. This has important clinical implications regarding age-related use and 
funding decisions on this drug.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-586
PMCID: PMC4148552
PMID: 25117912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2014 Sep 1;67 Suppl 1:S27-39. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0000000000000256.

HIV and metabolic, body, and bone disorders: what we know from low- and 
middle-income countries.

Ali MK(1), Magee MJ, Dave JA, Ofotokun I, Tungsiripat M, Jones TK, Levitt NS, 
Rimland D, Armstrong WS.

Author information:
(1)*Rollins School of Public Health, Emory University, Atlanta, GA; †Medical 
School, University of Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa; ‡School of Medicine, 
Emory University, Atlanta, GA; §The Cleveland Clinic, Cleveland, OH; and 
‖Veterans Affairs Medical Center, Atlanta, GA.

Globally, the HIV epidemic is evolving. Life expectancy for HIV-infected 
individuals has been extended because of more effective and more widely 
available antiretroviral therapy. As a result, chronic noncommunicable diseases 
(NCDs) have become important comorbid conditions. In particular, HIV-infected 
persons are increasingly at risk of developing metabolic (diabetes, 
dyslipidemias), body composition (lipodystrophy, overweight/obesity) and bone 
mineral density abnormalities. We have summarized the published epidemiological 
and clinical literature regarding these HIV-NCD comorbidities in low- and 
middle-income countries (LMICs). We found important gaps in knowledge. 
Specifically, there are few studies that use standardized methods and metrics; 
consequently, prevalence or incidence data are not comparable. There are very 
little or no data regarding the effectiveness or cost-effectiveness of clinical 
monitoring or therapeutic interventions for metabolic disorders in HIV-infected 
individuals. Also, although NCDs continue to grow in the HIV-negative population 
of most LMICs, there are few data comparing the incidence of NCD comorbidities 
between HIV-infected and HIV-negative populations. To address these gaps, we 
describe potential research and capacity development priorities for the future.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0000000000000256
PMID: 25117959 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2014 Sep 1;67 Suppl 1:S96-8. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0000000000000261.

HIV and noncommunicable diseases (NCDs) in Latin America: a call for an 
integrated and comprehensive response.

Crabtree-Ramírez B(1), Del Río C, Grinsztejn B, Sierra-Madero J.

Author information:
(1)*Department of Infectious Diseases, Instituto Nacional de Ciencias Médicas y 
Nutrición, Salvador Zubirán, Mexico City, Mexico; †Hubert Department of Global 
Health, Rollins School of Public Health of Emory University, Atlanta, GA; ‡Emory 
University Center for AIDS Research, Atlanta, GA; and §Instituto de Pesquisa 
Clinica Evandro Chagas-Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

The life expectancy of people living with HIV has dramatically improved with the 
much increased access to antiretroviral therapy. Consequently, a larger number 
of people living with HIV are living longer and facing the increased burden of 
noncommunicable diseases (NCDs). NCDs and HIV infection share common 
epidemiologic and sociodemographic characteristics that influence their 
outcomes, which may be difficult to address in the relatively weak health 
systems of the region. Data on the prevalence and interactions of NCDs and HIV 
in Latin American countries remain very limited, which hinders their 
governments' ability to make informed decisions about health care policies. 
Therefore, there is an urgent need to develop a research agenda that will be the 
basis for an integrated and comprehensive health care approach to HIV and NCD 
comorbidities in Latin America.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0000000000000261
PMID: 25117966 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


27. BMC Public Health. 2014 Aug 12;14:837. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-837.

A national Programme Budgeting and Marginal Analysis (PBMA) of health 
improvement spending across Wales: disinvestment and reinvestment across the 
life course.

Edwards RT(1), Charles JM, Thomas S, Bishop J, Cohen D, Groves S, Humphreys C, 
Howson H, Bradley P; Public Health Wales Health Improvement PBMA team.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics & Medicines Evaluation, Ardudwy, Normal Site, 
Bangor University, Bangor, Gwynedd, UK. r.t.edwards@bangor.ac.uk.

BACKGROUND: Wales faces serious public health challenges, with relatively low 
life expectancies and wide inequalities in life expectancy with associated 
pressures on the National Health Service (NHS) at a time of financial recession. 
This has led to growing recognition of the need to better understand the range 
of health improvement and prevention programmes across Welsh Government, NHS, 
local government and voluntary sector agencies.
METHODS: The Minister for Health and Social Care commissioned Public Health 
Wales, the single national public health organisation, to establish a Health 
Improvement Advisory Group, to oversee a Programme Budgeting and Marginal 
Analysis (PBMA) expert panel. The panel drew on evidence from a range of sources 
to explore potential alternative modes of health improvement initiative delivery 
across Wales. Electronic voting was used to agree an appropriate time horizon 
for health improvement programme outcomes, main objective of the health 
improvement review and criteria for evaluating candidate services for 
disinvestment and investment. The panel also used electronic voting to state 
whether they wished to disinvest or invest in a candidate service.
RESULTS: The review identified a budget of £15.1 million, spanning 10 Welsh 
Government priority areas, and 6 life course stages. Due to lack of evidence the 
panel recommended total disinvestment in 7 out of 25 initiatives releasing £1.5 
million of resources, and partial disinvestment in a further 3 interventions 
releasing £7.3 million of resources. The panel did not recommend increasing 
investment in any of the 25 initiatives under review. Marginal analyses 
prioritised child health, mental health and wellbeing and tobacco control as key 
areas for investment.
CONCLUSIONS: Wales is championing a concept of "prudent healthcare". The PBMA 
exercise undertaken here was a transparent evidence-based tool to reach 
decisions about potential for disinvestment and reinvestment in health 
improvement strategies. It also demonstrates the potential wider application at 
a national level across government public health functions, to ensure resources 
are most cost-effectively deployed, with due consideration for equity.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-837
PMCID: PMC4246570
PMID: 25118054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


28. BMC Public Health. 2014 Aug 13;14:840. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-840.

The rise of mortality from mental and neurological diseases in Europe, 
1979-2009: observational study.

Mackenbach JP(1), Karanikolos M, Looman CW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, P,O, Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, 
Netherlands. j.mackenbach@erasmusmc.nl.

BACKGROUND: We studied recent trends in mortality from seven mental and 
neurological conditions and their determinants in 41 European countries.
METHODS: Age-standardized mortality rates were analysed using standard methods 
of descriptive epidemiology, and were related to cultural, economic and health 
care indicators using regression analysis.
RESULTS: Rising mortality from mental and neurological conditions is seen in 
most European countries, and is mainly due to rising mortality from dementias. 
Mortality from psychoactive substance use and Parkinson's disease has also risen 
in several countries. Mortality from dementias has risen particularly strongly 
in Finland, Iceland, Malta, Netherlands, Spain, Sweden and the United Kingdom, 
and is positively associated with self-expression values, average income, health 
care expenditure and life expectancy, but only the first has an independent 
effect.
CONCLUSIONS: Although trends in mortality from dementias have probably been 
affected by changes in cause-of-death classification, the high level of 
mortality from these conditions in a number of vanguard countries suggests that 
it is now among the most frequent causes of death in high-income countries. 
Recognition of dementias as a cause of death, and/or refraining from life-saving 
treatment for patients with dementia, appear to be strongly dependent on 
cultural values.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-840
PMCID: PMC4139616
PMID: 25118099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. Bipolar Disord. 2015 May;17(3):257-68. doi: 10.1111/bdi.12245. Epub 2014 Aug
13.

Elevated levels of urinary markers of oxidatively generated DNA and RNA damage 
in bipolar disorder.

Munkholm K(1), Poulsen HE, Kessing LV, Vinberg M.

Author information:
(1)Psychiatric Center Copenhagen, Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVES: The pathophysiological mechanisms underlying bipolar disorder and 
its multi-system nature are unclear. Oxidatively generated damage to nucleosides 
has been demonstrated in metabolic disorders; however, the extent to which this 
occurs in bipolar disorder in vivo is unknown. We investigated oxidatively 
generated damage to DNA and RNA in patients with bipolar disorder and its 
relationship with the affective phase compared with healthy control subjects.
METHODS: Urinary excretion of 8-oxo-7,8-dihydro-2'-deoxyguanosine (8-oxodG) and 
8-oxo-7,8-dihydroguanosine (8-oxoGuo), markers of oxidatively generated DNA and 
RNA damage, respectively, was measured in 37 rapid cycling patients with bipolar 
disorder and in 40 age- and gender-matched healthy control subjects. Employing a 
longitudinal design, repeated measurements of both markers were evaluated in 
various affective phases in patients with bipolar disorder during a six- to 
12-month period and compared with repeated measurements in healthy control 
subjects.
RESULTS: In linear mixed models, adjusting for demographical, metabolic, and 
lifestyle factors, the excretion of 8-oxodG and 8-oxoGuo was significantly 
elevated in euthymic patients with bipolar disorder compared with healthy 
control subjects, with increases of 40% (p < 0.0005) and 43% (p < 0.0005), 
respectively. The increased oxidatively generated nucleoside damage was present 
through all affective phases of the illness, with no significant difference 
between affective states.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results indicate that bipolar disorder is associated with 
increased oxidatively generated damage to nucleosides. The findings could 
suggest a role for oxidatively generated damage to DNA and RNA as a molecular 
mechanism contributing to the increased risk of medical disorders, shortened 
life expectancy, and the progressive course of illness observed in bipolar 
disorder.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bdi.12245
PMID: 25118140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


30. Care Manag J. 2014;15(2):76-82. doi: 10.1891/1521-0987.15.2.76.

Increased longevity in HIV: caring for older HIV-infected adults.

Ball SC.

The demographics of the HIV-infected population in the United States have 
shifted in a way that few would have predicted 30 years ago when the tide of 
sick and dying patients largely consisted of young men. Effective ART has 
allowed those infected to live long, productive lives and to grow old with their 
disease. With the increase in life expectancy afforded by HIV treatment, the 
cause of death among HIV-infected individuals is far more likely to be from an 
HIV-associated non-AIDS condition. Nonetheless, HIV seems to accelerate the 
aging process, and care providers involved in the treatment of older patients 
with HIV need to be aware that their patients are at increased risk of 
developing various common disorders, compared to uninfected same-age patients. 
Clinicians need to remain vigilant to the possibility of a new diagnosis of HIV 
among their older patients. Awareness of current or distant risk, frank 
discussions of sexual practices, and willingness to offer routine testing are 
crucial to making this diagnosis, with the recognition that longevity for 
patients with HIV is directly linked to how soon they enter care. HIV infection 
adds another challenge to the management of older patients; geriatricians and 
HIV specialists need to coordinate their efforts to provide patients with 
comprehensive multidisciplinary care. Older patients with HIV also have social 
and psychological needs that extend beyond the medical office. Maintaining 
independence, acknowledging limitations, reducing risk of adverse events such as 
falls or medication errors, and supporting self-acceptance and awareness are 
only a few of the many areas where care providers outside the medical office can 
be important for patients' ongoing well-being. Accessing family support, 
community outreach, church affiliation, or other outpatient support networks can 
be useful for patients. The remarkable change in prognosis brought about by 
effective ART in the mid-1990s has meant that HIV is now, for many, a manageable 
chronic illness. Clinicians and other care providers are changing their approach 
and goals of care as patients with HIV grow old.

DOI: 10.1891/1521-0987.15.2.76
PMID: 25118513 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. Am J Surg Pathol. 2014 Nov;38(11):1510-5. doi: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000000302.

Protuberant fibro-osseous lesions of the temporal bone: two additional case 
reports.

Lee M(1), Song JS, Chun SM, Lee JH, Hong SH, Cho KJ.

Author information:
(1)Departments of *Pathology ‡Radiology §Neuro-surgery †Asan Center for Cancer 
Genome Discovery, ASAN Institute for Life Sciences, University of Ulsan College 
of Medicine, Asan Medical Center, Seoul, Republic of Korea.

The most commonly encountered fibro-osseous lesions of the skull bone are 
fibrous dysplasia and ossifying fibroma. Two cases of a unique "protuberant 
fibro-osseous lesion of the temporal bone" were first described by Selesnick and 
colleagues in 1999, and 2 further cases were reported in 2010 under the name 
"Bullough lesion". We recently found 2 new cases of this rare entity. Two Korean 
female patients aged 70 and 54 years presented with slow growing postauricular 
masses without pain or tenderness for 6 and 7 years, respectively. Computed 
tomography revealed a 2.9 cm calcified mass in the temporal bone of the first 
patient, and a 5.5 cm enhancing mass with internal cartilaginous matrix in the 
temporal bone of the second patient. Intramedullary or intracranial extension 
was not found in either case, and en bloc removals were performed. 
Microscopically, multiple round to oval osseous islands were scattered 
throughout the bland fibrous stroma in both cases. The osseous islands varied in 
size and were lamellar or woven, without osteoblastic rimming, and surrounded by 
fibroblastic bands. Neither patient has shown evidence of postoperative 
recurrence for 18 months. The location, histology, and clinical course of these 
2 cases were identical to the 4 cases previously reported, although age and sex 
varied. The lesions were tested for the R201H mutation in the GNAS gene, which 
is present in fibrous dysplasia. No mutations were found, suggesting a different 
genetic background for these lesions.

DOI: 10.1097/PAS.0000000000000302
PMID: 25118809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


32. J Neurooncol. 2014 Sep;119(3):513-29. doi: 10.1007/s11060-014-1501-7. Epub
2014  Aug 14.

Unyielding progress: recent advances in the treatment of central nervous system 
neoplasms with radiosurgery and radiation therapy.

Ding D(1), Yen CP, Starke RM, Lee CC, Sheehan JP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, University of Virginia, P.O. Box 800212, 
Charlottesville, VA, 22908, USA.

In the past decade, our understanding of the roles of external beam radiotherapy 
(EBRT) and stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) in the management of brain tumors has 
dramatically improved. To highlight the changes and contemporary treatment 
approaches, we review the indications and outcomes of ionizing radiation for 
benign intracranial tumors and brain metastases. For nonfunctioning pituitary 
adenomas, SRS is able to achieve radiographic tumor control in at least 90 % of 
cases. The rate of SRS-induced endocrine remission for functioning pituitary 
adenomas depends on the tumor subtype, but it is generally lower than the rate 
of radiographic tumor control. The most common complications from pituitary 
adenoma SRS treatment are hypopituitarism and cranial neuropathies. SRS has 
become the preferred treatment modality for vestibular schwannomas and skull 
base meningiomas less than 3 cm in size. Large vestibular schwannomas and 
meningiomas remain best managed with initial surgical resection or EBRT for 
surgically ineligible patients. For small to moderately sized brain metastases, 
there has been a shift toward treatment of newly diagnosed patients with SRS 
alone due to similar local control rates compared with surgical resection. RCTs 
have shown combined SRS and whole brain radiation therapy (WBRT) for brain 
metastases to decrease rates of local and distant intracranial recurrence 
compared to SRS alone. However, the improved intracranial control comes at the 
expense of poorer neurocognitive outcomes and without prolonging overall 
survival. Therefore, WBRT is generally reserved for salvage therapy. While EBRT 
has been frequently supplanted by SRS for the treatment pituitary adenomas and 
brain metastases, it still proves useful in selected cases of large lesions 
which are not amenable to surgical debulking or for those with widespread 
disease, poor performance status, and short life expectancy. In recent years, 
the scope of SRS has extended beyond the intracranial space to include 
extradural and intradural spinal tumors.

DOI: 10.1007/s11060-014-1501-7
PMID: 25119001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Cien Saude Colet. 2014 Aug;19(8):3327-34. doi: 
10.1590/1413-81232014198.06952013.

Effect of the elimination of chronic diseases on disability-free life expectancy 
among elderly individuals in Sao Paulo, Brazil, 2010.

Campolina AG(1), Adami F(2), Santos JL(3), Lebrão ML(4).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigação Translacional em Oncologia, Instituto do Câncer do 
Estado de São Paulo, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, SP, Brazil, alecampolina@gmail.com.
(2)Departamento de Saúde da Coletividade, Faculdade de Medicina do ABC.
(3)Departamento de Medicina Social, Faculdade de Medicina de Ribeirão Preto, 
Universidade de São Paulo.
(4)Departamento de Epidemiologia, Faculdade de Saúde Pública, Universidade de 
São Paulo.

The scope of this study was to establish whether the elimination of certain 
chronic diseases is capable of leading to the compression of morbidity among 
elderly individuals in Sao Paulo (Brazil), 2010. A population-based, 
cross-sectional study was carried out with official data for the city of Sao 
Paulo (Brazil) in 2010 and data from the SABE (Health, Wellbeing and Ageing) 
study. A total of 907 elderly individuals were evaluated, 640 of whom were women 
(64.6%). Sullivan's method was used for the calculation of disability-free life 
expectancy (DFLE). Life tables for cause elimination were used to calculate the 
probabilities of death with the elimination of health conditions. In absolute 
terms, the gains in LE and DFLE were greater in the younger age group (60 to 74 
years) in both genders. In relative terms (%DFLE in LE), the gains were higher 
among women aged 75 years or older and among men aged 60 years. If eliminated, 
heart disease was the condition that would most lead to the compression of 
morbidity in both genders. The elimination of chronic diseases from the elderly 
population could lead to a compression of morbidity in men and women at both 60 
years of age and 75 years of age or older.

DOI: 10.1590/1413-81232014198.06952013
PMID: 25119072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 13;9(8):e104945. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104945. 
eCollection 2014.

Comorbidities among the HIV-infected patients aged 40 years or older in Taiwan.

Wu PY(1), Chen MY(2), Hsieh SM(2), Sun HY(2), Tsai MS(3), Lee KY(4), Liu WC(2), 
Yang SP(1), Luo YZ(1), Zhang JY(1), Sheng WH(5), Hung CC(6).

Author information:
(1)Center of Infection Control, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital and 
National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Far Eastern Memorial Hospital, New Taipei 
City, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital Hsin-Chu 
Branch, Hsin-Chu, Taiwan.
(5)Center of Infection Control, National Taiwan University Hospital, Taipei, 
Taiwan; Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital and 
National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan.
(6)Department of Internal Medicine, National Taiwan University Hospital and 
National Taiwan University College of Medicine, Taipei, Taiwan; Department of 
Medical Research, China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan; China 
Medical University, Taichung, Taiwan.

BACKGROUND: With the widespread use of combination antiretroviral therapy 
(cART), life expectancy of HIV-infected patients has significantly prolonged. An 
increasing number of HIV-infected patients are aging and concurrent use of 
medications are not uncommon for management of metabolic complications and 
cardiovascular diseases related to aging and prolonged exposure to cART.
METHODS: We reviewed medical records of all HIV-infected patients aged 40 years 
or older who had been followed at a university hospital for HIV care in Taiwan 
between January and December 2013. A standardized case record form was used to 
collect information on demographics and clinical characteristics, comorbidity, 
cART, and concurrent medications.
RESULTS: During the study period, 610 patients aged 40 to 49 years (mean, 44.1) 
and 310 aged 50 years or older (mean, 58.8) sought HIV care at this hospital. 
Compared with patients aged 40 to 49 years, those aged 50 years or older were 
significantly more likely to be female (15.9% vs 3.8%); to have received cART 
(97.7% vs 94.8%) and a lower plasma HIV RNA load (1.6 vs 1.7 log10 copies/ml); 
and to have diabetes mellitus (18.4% vs 4.6%), hypertension (31.0% vs 10.8%), 
hyperlipidemia (29.4% vs 11.6%), coronary artery disease (6.8% vs 0.5%), and an 
estimated glomerular filtration rate <60 ml/min/1.73 m2 (11.5% vs 2.7%); and 
were significantly less likely to have syphilis. Other than HIV infection, 
patients aged 50 years or older were more likely to have been receiving two or 
more concurrent medications than those aged 40 to 49 years (22.9% vs 6.4%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings show a significant proportion of the HIV-infected 
patients aged 50 years or older have multiple comorbidities that may increase 
the risk for cardiovascular and renal complications. Issues of poly-pharmacy 
among the HIV-infected patients who are aging should be addressed to ensure 
adherence and minimize drug-drug interactions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104945
PMCID: PMC4132082
PMID: 25119532 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


35. AIDS. 2013 Nov 28;27(18):2883-92. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000008.

Cost-effectiveness of novel algorithms for rapid diagnosis of tuberculosis in 
HIV-infected individuals in Uganda.

Shah M(1), Dowdy D, Joloba M, Ssengooba W, Manabe YC, Ellner J, Dorman SE.

Author information:
(1)aJohns Hopkins University School of Medicine bJohns Hopkins Bloomberg School 
of Public Health, Baltimore, Maryland, USA cDepartment of Microbiology 
dInfectious Diseases Institute, Makerere University College of Health Sciences, 
Kampala, Uganda.

OBJECTIVE: Xpert MTB/RIF ('Xpert') and urinary lateral-flow lipoarabinomannan 
(LF-LAM) assays offer rapid tuberculosis (TB) diagnosis. This study evaluated 
the cost-effectiveness of novel diagnostic algorithms utilizing combinations of 
Xpert and LF-LAM for the detection of active TB among people living with HIV.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis using data from a comparative study of 
LF-LAM and Xpert, with a target population of HIV-infected individuals with 
signs/symptoms of TB in Uganda.
METHODS: A decision-analysis model compared multiple strategies for rapid TB 
diagnosis:sputum smear-microscopy; sputum Xpert; smear-microscopy combined with 
LF-LAM; and Xpert combined with LF-LAM. Primary outcomes were the costs and 
DALY's averted for each algorithm. Cost-effectiveness was represented using 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICER).
RESULTS: Compared with an algorithm of Xpert testing alone, the combination of 
Xpert with LF-LAM was considered highly cost-effective (ICER $57/DALY-averted) 
at a willingness to pay threshold of Ugandan GDP per capita. Addition of urine 
LF-LAM testing to smear-microscopy was a less effective strategy than Xpert 
replacement of smear-microscopy, but was less costly and also considered highly 
cost-effective (ICER $33 per DALY-averted) compared with continued usage of 
smear-microscopy alone. Cost-effectiveness of the Xpert plus LF-LAM algorithm 
was most influenced by HIV/ART costs and life-expectancy of patients after TB 
treatment.
CONCLUSION: The addition of urinary LF-LAM to TB diagnostic algorithms for 
HIV-infected individuals is highly cost-effective compared with usage of either 
sputum smear-microscopy or Xpert alone.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000008
PMCID: PMC4133735
PMID: 25119690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest There are no conflicts of 
interest.


36. Z Gerontol Geriatr. 2014 Aug;47(6):490-4. doi: 10.1007/s00391-014-0675-0.

Comprehension of climate change and environmental attitudes across the lifespan.

Degen C(1), Kettner SE, Fischer H, Lohse J, Funke J, Schwieren C, Goeschl T, 
Schröder J.

Author information:
(1)Universitätsklinikum Heidelberg, Voßstr. 4, 69115, Heidelberg, Germany, 
Christina.Degen@med.uni-heidelberg.de.

Given the coincidence of the demographic change and climate change in the 
upcoming decades the aging voter gains increasing importance in climate change 
mitigation and adaptation processes. It is generally assumed that information 
status and comprehension of complex processes underlying climate change are 
prerequisites for adopting pro-environmental attitudes and taking 
pro-environmental actions. In a cross-sectional study, we investigated in how 
far (1) environmental knowledge and comprehension of feedback processes 
underlying climate change and (2) pro-environmental attitudes change as a 
function of age. Our sample consisted of 92 participants aged 25-75 years (mean 
age 49.4 years, SD 17.0). Age was negatively related to comprehension of system 
structures inherent to climate change, but positively associated with level of 
fear of consequences and anxiousness towards climate change. No significant 
relations were found between environmental knowledge and pro-environmental 
attitude. These results indicate that, albeit understanding of relevant 
structures of the climate system is less present in older age, age is not a 
limiting factor for being engaged in the complex dilemma of climate change. 
Results bear implications for the communication of climate change and 
pro-environmental actions in aging societies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00391-014-0675-0
PMID: 25119704 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Front Psychiatry. 2014 Jul 28;5:89. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2014.00089.
eCollection  2014.

Can exercise increase fitness and reduce weight in patients with schizophrenia 
and depression?

Krogh J(1), Speyer H(2), Nørgaard HC(3), Moltke A(4), Nordentoft M(2).

Author information:
(1)Mental Health Centre Copenhagen, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen , Copenhagen , Denmark ; Department of Endocrinology, Herlev 
University Hospital , Copenhagen , Denmark.
(2)Mental Health Centre Copenhagen, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen , Copenhagen , Denmark.
(3)Research Unit Department P, Aarhus University Hospital , Risskov , Denmark.
(4)Mental Health Centre Copenhagen, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of 
Copenhagen , Copenhagen , Denmark ; Research Center for Health Promotion, 
University of Roskilde , Roskilde , Denmark.

BACKGROUND: Psychiatric patients have a reduced life expectancy of 15-20 years 
compared with the general population. Most years of lost life are due to the 
excess mortality from somatic diseases. Sedentary lifestyle and medication is 
partly responsible for the high frequency of metabolic syndrome in this patient 
group and low levels of physical activity is associated with increased risk of 
cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and all-cause mortality. This study aimed to 
review trials allocating patients with either schizophrenia or depression to 
exercise interventions for effect on cardiovascular fitness, strength, and 
weight.
METHODS: We searched PubMed, Embase, and PsycINFO including randomized clinical 
trial allocating patients with either schizophrenia or depression to isolated 
exercise interventions.
RESULTS: We identified five trials including patients with schizophrenia 
(n = 94) and found little evidence that exercise could increase cardiovascular 
fitness or decrease weight. Nine exercise trials for patients with depression 
(n = 892) were identified increasing cardiovascular fitness by 11-30% and 
strength by 33-37%. No evidence in favor of exercise for weight reduction was 
found.
CONCLUSION: Based on the current evidence isolated exercise interventions are 
unlikely to improve cardiovascular fitness or induce weight loss in patients 
with schizophrenia. In patients with depression, exercise interventions are 
likely to induce clinically relevant short term effects, however, due to lack of 
reporting, little is known about the effect on weight reduction and 
cardiovascular fitness. Future exercise trials regarding patients with mental 
illness should preferably measure changes in cardiovascular strength, repetition 
maximum, and anthropometric outcomes. Ideally, participants should be assessed 
beyond the intervention to identify long lasting effects.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2014.00089
PMCID: PMC4112783
PMID: 25120495


38. Lancet Oncol. 2014 Jul;15(8):e314. doi: 10.1016/s1470-2045(14)70286-4.

Study estimates economic returns from UK cancer research.

Fricker J.

DOI: 10.1016/s1470-2045(14)70286-4
PMID: 25121183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


39. From Death to Birth: Mortality Decline and Reproductive Change.

National Research Council (US) Committee on Population; Montgomery MR, Cohen B, 
editors.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 1998.

The last 35 years or so have witnessed a dramatic shift in the demography of 
many developing countries. Before 1960, there were substantial improvements in 
life expectancy, but fertility declines were very rare. Few people used modern 
contraceptives, and couples had large families. Since 1960, however, fertility 
rates have fallen in virtually every major geographic region of the world, for 
almost all political, social, and economic groups. What factors are responsible 
for the sharp decline in fertility? What role do child survival programs or 
family programs play in fertility declines? Casual observation suggests that a 
decline in infant and child mortality is the most important cause, but there is 
surprisingly little hard evidence for this conclusion. The papers in this volume 
explore the theoretical, methodological, and empirical dimensions of the 
fertility-mortality relationship. It includes several detailed case studies 
based on contemporary data from developing countries and on historical data from 
Europe and the United States.

Copyright 1998 by the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved. Printed 
in the United States of America.

DOI: 10.17226/5842
PMID: 25121235


40. Premature Death in the New Independent States.

National Research Council (US) Committee on Population; Bobadilla JL, Costello 
CA, Mitchell F, editors.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 1997.

In recent years there have been alarming reports of rapid decreases in life 
expectancy in the New Independent States (former members of the Soviet Union). 
To help assess priorities for health policy, the Committee on Population 
organized two workshops--the first on adult mortality and disability, the second 
on adult health priorities and policies. Participants included demographers, 
epidemiologists, public health specialists, economists, and policymakers from 
the NIS countries, the United States, and Western Europe. This volume consists 
of selected papers presented at the workshops. They assess the reliability of 
data on mortality, morbidity, and disability; analyze regional patterns and 
trends in mortality rates and causes of death; review evidence about major 
determinants of adult mortality; and discuss implications for health policy.

Copyright 1997 by the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.17226/5530
PMID: 25121275


41. Preventing and Mitigating AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa: Research and Data 
Priorities for the Social and Behavioral Sciences.

National Research Council (US) Panel on Data and Research Priorities for 
Arresting AIDS in Sub-Saharan Africa; Cohen B, Trussell J, editors.

Washington (DC): National Academies Press (US); 1996.

The AIDS epidemic in Sub-Saharan Africa continues to affect all facets of life 
throughout the subcontinent. Deaths related to AIDS have driven down the life 
expectancy rate of residents in Zambia, Kenya, and Uganda with far-reaching 
implications. This book details the current state of the AIDS epidemic in Africa 
and what is known about the behaviors that contribute to the transmission of the 
HIV infection. It lays out what research is needed and what is necessary to 
design more effective prevention programs.

Copyright 1996 by the National Academy of Sciences. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.17226/5177
PMID: 25121289


42. Fam Pract. 2014 Oct;31(5):578-84. doi: 10.1093/fampra/cmu043. Epub 2014 Aug
13.

Cost-utility analysis of a treatment advice to discontinue inappropriate 
long-term antidepressant use in primary care.

Eveleigh R(1), Grutters J(2), Muskens E(3), Oude Voshaar R(4), van Weel C(5), 
Speckens A(6), Lucassen P(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Primary and Community Care, rhona.eveleigh@radboudumc.nl.
(2)Department for Health Evidence and Department of Operating Rooms, Radboud 
University Nijmegen Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Primary and Community Care.
(4)University Center for Psychiatry & Interdisciplinary Center for 
Psychopathology of Emotion regulation (ICPE), University Medical Center 
Groningen, Groningen, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Primary and Community Care, Australian Primary Health Care 
Research Institute, Australian National University, Canberra, Australia, and.
(6)Department of Psychiatry, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Antidepressant prescriptions have increased exponentially, burdening 
health care costs.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the costs and effects of an antidepressant cessation 
advice in case of inappropriate long-term use in primary care, i.e. long-term 
usage without a (current) indication.
METHODS: A economic evaluation during 1-year follow-up was performed, from a 
societal perspective, as part of a cluster-randomised controlled clinical trial 
(PANDA). Costs were assessed using the Trimbos/iMTA questionnaire for costs 
associated with psychiatric illness. Health-related quality of life was measured 
using the EuroQol 5D. Outcome was costs per quality adjusted life year (QALY). 
Missing values were estimated using multiple imputation, bootstrap simulations 
were performed to address the uncertainty surrounding the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs).
RESULTS: There was no difference in average QALYs between the intervention 
(0.70) and control group (0.72) [difference -0.02 (95% CI -0.05 to 0.10)]. The 
intervention group, however, was less expensive than the control group (total 
costs €3636 versus €5267, respectively). Most cost-effectiveness pairs were 
located in the south-west quadrant of the cost-effectiveness plane, implying the 
intervention was less effective but also less costly. The ICER of the pooled 
data was €70,180, meaning that for one QALY lost, €70,180 is saved.
CONCLUSIONS: This study shows that an antidepressant cessation advice given to 
patients (and their FPs) with inappropriate long-term antidepressant usage, 
albeit not effective, does seem to result in a reduction of societal costs. This 
reduction in costs is mostly due to reduction of productivity losses, possibly 
due to patient empowerment and loss of stigma.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/fampra/cmu043
PMID: 25121977 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


43. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 14;9(8):e104225. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104225. 
eCollection 2014.

Cost-effectiveness of collaborative care for depression in UK primary care: 
economic evaluation of a randomised controlled trial (CADET).

Green C(1), Richards DA(1), Hill JJ(2), Gask L(3), Lovell K(4), Chew-Graham 
C(5), Bower P(3), Cape J(6), Pilling S(6), Araya R(7), Kessler D(7), Bland 
JM(8), Gilbody S(9), Lewis G(10), Manning C(11), Hughes-Morley A(3), Barkham 
M(12).

Author information:
(1)University of Exeter Medical School, University of Exeter, Exeter, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Mood Disorders Centre, University of Exeter, Exeter, United Kingdom.
(3)Centre for Primary Care at the Institute of Population Health, University of 
Manchester, Manchester, United Kingdom.
(4)School of Nursing, Midwifery, and Social Work, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, United Kingdom.
(5)Primary Care and Health Sciences, Keele University, Keele, United Kingdom.
(6)Research Department of Clinical, Educational, and Health Psychology, 
University College London, London, United Kingdom.
(7)School of Social and Community Medicine, University of Bristol, Bristol, 
United Kingdom.
(8)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, United Kingdom.
(9)Department of Health Sciences at Hull York Medical School, University of 
York, York, United Kingdom.
(10)Mental Health Sciences Unit, University College London, London, United 
Kingdom.
(11)Upstream Healthcare, Teddington, United Kingdom.
(12)Department of Psychology, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: Collaborative care is an effective treatment for the management of 
depression but evidence on its cost-effectiveness in the UK is lacking.
AIMS: To assess the cost-effectiveness of collaborative care in a UK primary 
care setting.
METHODS: An economic evaluation alongside a multi-centre cluster randomised 
