cardiovascular mortality, respectively, compared with never-runners.
CONCLUSIONS: Running, even 5 to 10 min/day and at slow speeds <6 miles/h, is 
associated with markedly reduced risks of death from all causes and 
cardiovascular disease. This study may motivate healthy but sedentary 
individuals to begin and continue running for substantial and attainable 
mortality benefits.

Copyright © 2014 American College of Cardiology Foundation. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2014.04.058
PMCID: PMC4131752
PMID: 25082581 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


933. J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014 Aug 5;64(5):482-4. doi: 10.1016/j.jacc.2014.05.026.

Minimal amount of exercise to prolong life: to walk, to run, or just mix it up?

Wen CP(1), Wai JP(2), Tsai MK(3), Chen CH(4).

Author information:
(1)Institutes of Population Health Sciences, National Health Research 
Institutes, Zhunan, Taiwan; China Medical University Hospital, Taichung, Taiwan. 
Electronic address: cwengood@nhri.org.tw.
(2)Institute of Sport Science, National Taiwan Sport University, Taoyuan, 
Taiwan.
(3)Institutes of Population Health Sciences, National Health Research 
Institutes, Zhunan, Taiwan.
(4)Digestive Disease Center, Show-Chwan Memorial Hospital, Changhua, Taiwan; 
Hungkuang University, Taichung, Taiwan.

Comment in
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2015 Mar 24;65(11):1153-4.
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2015 Mar 24;65(11):1155-6.

Comment on
    J Am Coll Cardiol. 2014 Aug 5;64(5):472-81.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jacc.2014.05.026
PMID: 25082582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


934. Eur Spine J. 2015 Oct;24(10):2133-41. doi: 10.1007/s00586-014-3482-9. Epub
2014  Aug 1.

Evaluation of prognostic scoring systems for spinal metastases in 196 patients 
treated during 2005-2010.

Dardic M(1), Wibmer C(2), Berghold A(3), Stadlmueller L(3), Froehlich EV(1), 
Leithner A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical University of 
Graz, Auenbruggerplatz 5, 8036, Graz, Austria.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics and Orthopaedic Surgery, Medical University of 
Graz, Auenbruggerplatz 5, 8036, Graz, Austria. christine.wibmer@medunigraz.at.
(3)Institute for Medical Informatics, Statistics and Documentation, Medical 
University of Graz, Graz, Austria.

PURPOSE: Estimating the survival time of patients with spinal metastases based 
on pre-treatment parameters is important for the best choice of therapy. 
Following two previous studies, this sequel analyzes possible changes in the 
impact of various parameters and scoring systems and includes a comparison to 
the previous dataset for the purpose to find the most predictive parameters and 
scores for this patient group.
METHODS: Included were 196 patients retrospectively with confirmed spinal 
metastases treated between 2005 and 2010 (35% surgery, 65% conservative). 
Possible prognostic factors [primary tumor, Karnofsky Performance Scale (KPS), 
visceral metastases, number of bone metastases, pathological fracture and 
neurologic status] and six scoring systems (Tokuhashi original/revised, Tomita, 
van der Linden, Bauer original and modified) were analyzed using Kaplan-Meier 
curves and Cox-regression models.
RESULTS: Median overall survival was 7 months with 9% of all patients alive at 
the time of analysis. Stepwise multivariate analysis showed significant 
influence on survival for visceral metastases (p<0.0001), primary tumor 
(p<0.0001), KPS (p<0.0001) and number of spinal metastases (p=0.0271). All 
scoring systems significantly predicted longer survival at a better score 
(absolute scores, p<0.001) in this dataset. Significant differentiation between 
the prognostic groups was seen only for the Tokuhashi original, the Bauer 
original and modified scores (p<0.001). In comparison to the previous dataset 
with varying age, gender and primary tumor distribution, the Bauer original and 
modified scores were the least influenced by the different patient collectives.
CONCLUSIONS: The Bauer modified score has shown consistent impact on predicting 
the remaining survival in patients with spinal metastases and is simultaneously 
simple in clinical use.

DOI: 10.1007/s00586-014-3482-9
PMID: 25082760 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


935. J Med Ethics. 2015 Aug;41(8):635-8. doi: 10.1136/medethics-2014-102060. Epub
 2014 Jul 31.

QALYs, euthanasia and the puzzle of death.

Barrie S(1).

Author information:
(1)The Anscombe Bioethics Centre, Oxford, UK Department of Philosophy, King's 
College London, London, UK.

This paper considers the problems that arise when death, which is a 
philosophically difficult concept, is incorporated into healthcare metrics, such 
as the quality-adjusted life year (QALY). These problems relate closely to the 
debate over euthanasia and assisted suicide because negative QALY scores can be 
taken to mean that patients would be 'better off dead'. There is confusion in 
the literature about the meaning of 0 QALY, which is supposed to act as an 
'anchor' for the surveyed preferences on which QALYs are based. In the context 
of the debate over euthanasia, the QALY assumes an ability to make meaningful 
comparisons between life-states and death. Not only is this assumption 
questionable, but the ethical debate is much more broad than the question of 
whether death is preferable to a state of living. QALYs are derived from 
preferences about health states, so do not necessarily reflect preferences about 
events (eg, dying) or actions (eg, killing). This paper presents a new kind of 
problem for the QALY. As it stands, the QALY provides confused and unreliable 
information when it reports zero or negative values, and faces further problems 
when it appears to recommend death. This should preclude its use in the debate 
over euthanasia and assisted suicide. These problems only apply where the QALY 
involves or seems to involve a comparison between life-states and death, and are 
not relevant to the more general discussion of the use of QALYs as a tool for 
comparing the benefits derived from treatment options.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/medethics-2014-102060
PMID: 25082901 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


936. IMA Fungus. 2014 Jun;5(1):31-7. doi: 10.5598/imafungus.2014.05.01.04. Epub
2014  Apr 1.

Possible house-keeping and other draft proposals to clarify or enhance the 
naming of fungi within the International Code of Nomenclature for algae, fungi, 
and plants (ICN).

Hawksworth DL(1).

Author information:
(1)Departamento de Biología Vegetal II, Facultad de Farmacia, Universidad 
Complutense de Madrid, Plaza Ramón y Cajal, Madrid 28040, Spain; Department of 
Life Sciences, The Natural History Museum, Cromwell Road, London SW7 5BD, UK; 
and Mycology Section, Royal Botanic Gardens, Kew, Surrey TW9 3DS, UK;

The 10th International Mycological Congress (IMC10), to be held in August 2014, 
will be the last before the 19th International Botanical Congress (IBC) 
scheduled for July 2017 at which changes in the ICN will be adopted. IMC10 will 
therefore be the last opportunity for mycologists as a whole to debate and 
propose clarifications and other changes they would like to see made in the ICN 
which was adopted in Melbourne in 2011. In order to stimulate debate, draft 
proposals are presented here on ten topics: terminology of the new lists; 
protection against unlisted names; priority for sexual morph typified names; 
removal of exemptions for lichen-forming fungi; extension of sanctioning to 
additional works; extending conservation to additional ranks; names with the 
same epithet; registration of typifications subsequent to valid publication; 
sequenced epitypes; and generic homonyms in other kingdoms. It is anticipated 
that the draft proposals presented here will be abandoned, refined, or 
supplemented by debates at the Genera and Genomes symposium in Amsterdam in 
April 2014 and during IMC10, and also by other comments received from individual 
mycologists or other bodies. Formal proposals will then be prepared for 
presentation and decision at the IBC in 2017.

DOI: 10.5598/imafungus.2014.05.01.04
PMCID: PMC4107894
PMID: 25083404


937. J Cardiovasc Med (Hagerstown). 2016 Dec;17 Suppl 2:e138-e140. doi: 
10.2459/JCM.0000000000000175.

Chronic Stanford type A aortic dissection.

Raffa GM(1), Pilato M, Armaro A, Ruperto C, Gentile G, Follis F.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment for the Treatment and Study of Cardiothoracic Diseases and 
Cardiothoracic Transplantation, Cardiac Surgery and Heart Transplantation Unit 
bDepartment of Diagnostic and Therapeutic Services, Radiology Service, 
Mediterranean Institute for Transplantation and Advanced Specialized Therapies 
(IsMeTT), Palermo, Italy.

: Chronic evolution of type A acute aortic dissection is not frequently observed 
in untreated patients because of the high mortality rate. Chronic aortic 
dissection is usually asymptomatic and may be incidentally discovered following 
an asymptomatic acute dissection. The life expectancy in these patients is 
prolonged by graft replacement therapy when the aortic diameter exceeds 55 mm. 
We report a case of a paucisymptomatic 78-year-old woman in whom chest X-ray 
revealed a right calcified mass.

DOI: 10.2459/JCM.0000000000000175
PMID: 25083724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


938. Scand J Clin Lab Invest Suppl. 2014;244:2-7. doi:
10.3109/00365513.2014.936672.

Women's health.

Gronowski AM(1), Schindler EI.

Author information:
(1)Division of Laboratory and Genomic Medicine, Washington University School of 
Medicine , St Louis, MO , USA.

Many of the unique health issues facing women are related to reproductive health 
and pregnancy. However, several conditions that affect both sexes have distinct 
manifestations in women including cardiovascular disease, osteoporosis, and 
anemia. The extent of the effect that the physiological differences between men 
and women have on the natural course of these diseases and the validity of 
applying a standard treatment to both genders has not been fully explored. 
Historically, medical research has largely excluded women, rendering the 
application of evidence-based medicine to women's health issues somewhat of a 
misnomer. While most research in women's health originates from developed 
nations, consideration must be given to women in all regions of the world. 
Compared to women in developed nations, women in resource-poor countries are 
burdened with increased morbidity and mortality from gender-related health 
issues. In order to globally advance women's health, the physiologic and social 
differences between men and women must be more clearly characterized and these 
differences must be taken into consideration when designing research endeavors 
and developing health policy.

DOI: 10.3109/00365513.2014.936672
PMID: 25083885 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


939. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Dec;32(12):1201-12. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0198-y.

A review of the economic burden of glioblastoma and the cost effectiveness of 
pharmacologic treatments.

Messali A(1), Villacorta R, Hay JW.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Pharmacy and Pharmaceutical Economics and Policy, 
Leonard D. Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics, University of 
Southern California, 3335 S. Figueroa St., Unit A, University Park Campus, 
UGW-Unit A, Los Angeles, CA, 90089-7273, USA, messali@usc.edu.

Grade IV glioma (glioblastoma) is one of the most common brain/central nervous 
system cancers. In 2005, the standard of care for adjuvant treatment was 
significantly changed with the approval of temozolomide. Carmustine wafers have 
also gained some popularity. Phase III trials are currently evaluating 
bevacizumab in conjunction with the standard temozolomide regimen. Despite these 
recent advances in pharmacotherapy, roughly two-thirds of patients do not 
survive longer than 2 years after diagnosis. Meanwhile, the costs of treatment 
are substantial. The goal of this study is to review the clinical, 
cost-of-illness, and cost-effectiveness literature relevant to treating 
glioblastoma. Estimates of the economic burden of glioblastoma within different 
healthcare systems were converted to 2013 US dollars. Temozolomide has 
demonstrated a 2.5-month increase in overall survival and a 1.9-month increase 
in progression-free survival, relative to radiotherapy alone. Carmustine wafers 
have also been shown to increase overall survival by 2.3 months, compared with 
placebo wafers. Cost-effectiveness studies of temozolomide have produced 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios, adjusted to 2013 US dollars, with a range 
from US$73,586 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) (UK National Health Service 
perspective) to US$105,234 per QALY (US societal perspective). More research is 
needed to quantify the full societal burden of illness.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0198-y
PMID: 25085219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


940. Hum Reprod. 2014 Oct 10;29(10):2163-70. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deu191. Epub
2014  Aug 1.

Estimated disability-adjusted life years averted by long-term provision of long 
acting contraceptive methods in a Brazilian clinic.

Bahamondes L(1), Bottura BF(2), Bahamondes MV(2), Gonçalves MP(2), Correia 
VM(2), Espejo-Arce X(2), Sousa MH(2), Monteiro I(2), Fernandes A(2).

Author information:
(1)Human Reproduction Unit, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, School of 
Medical Sciences and the National Institute of Hormones and Women's Health, 
University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, SP, Brazil 
bahamond@caism.unicamp.br.
(2)Human Reproduction Unit, Department of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, School of 
Medical Sciences and the National Institute of Hormones and Women's Health, 
University of Campinas (UNICAMP), Campinas, SP, Brazil.

STUDY QUESTION: What is the contribution of the provision, at no cost for users, 
of long acting reversible contraceptive methods (LARC; copper intrauterine 
device [IUD], the levonorgestrel-releasing intrauterine system [LNG-IUS], 
contraceptive implants and depot-medroxyprogesterone [DMPA] injection) towards 
the disability-adjusted life years (DALY) averted through a Brazilian 
university-based clinic established over 30 years ago.
SUMMARY ANSWER: Over the last 10 years of evaluation, provision of LARC methods 
and DMPA by the clinic are estimated to have contributed to DALY averted by 
between 37 and 60 maternal deaths, 315-424 child mortalities, 634-853 combined 
maternal morbidity and mortality and child mortality, and 1056-1412 unsafe 
abortions averted.
WHAT IS KNOWN ALREADY: LARC methods are associated with a high contraceptive 
effectiveness when compared with contraceptive methods which need frequent 
attention; perhaps because LARC methods are independent of individual or couple 
compliance. However, in general previous studies have evaluated contraceptive 
methods during clinical studies over a short period of time, or not more than 10 
years. Furthermore, information regarding the estimation of the DALY averted is 
scarce.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE AND DURATION: We reviewed 50 004 medical charts from women 
who consulted for the first time looking for a contraceptive method over the 
period from 2 January 1980 through 31 December 2012.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Women who consulted at the Department 
of Obstetrics and Gynaecology, University of Campinas, Brazil were new users and 
users switching contraceptive, including the copper IUD (n = 13 826), the 
LNG-IUS (n = 1525), implants (n = 277) and DMPA (n = 9387). Estimation of the 
DALY averted included maternal morbidity and mortality, child mortality and 
unsafe abortions averted.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: We obtained 29 416 contraceptive segments 
of use including 25 009 contraceptive segments of use from 20 821 new users or 
switchers to any LARC method or DMPA with at least 1 year of follow-up. The mean 
(± SD) age of the women at first consultation ranged from 25.3 ± 5.7 (range 
12-47) years in the 1980s, to 31.9 ± 7.4 (range 16-50) years in 2010-2011. The 
most common contraceptive chosen at the first consultation was copper IUD (48.3, 
74.5 and 64.7% in the 1980s, 1990s and 2000s, respectively). For an evaluation 
over 20 years, the cumulative pregnancy rates (SEM) were 0.4 (0.2), 2.8 (2.1), 
4.0 (0.4) and 1.3 (0.4) for the LNG-IUS, the implants, copper IUD and DMPA, 
respectively and cumulative continuation rates (SEM) were 15.1 (3.7), 3.9 (1.4), 
14.1 (0.6) and 7.3 (1.7) for the LNG-IUS, implants, copper IUD and DMPA, 
respectively (P < 0.001). Over the last 10 years of evaluation, the estimation 
of the contribution of the clinic through the provision of LARC methods and DMPA 
to DALY averted was 37-60 maternal deaths; between 315 and 424 child 
mortalities; combined maternal morbidity and mortality and child mortality of 
between 634 and 853, and 1056-1412 unsafe abortions averted.
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: The main limitations are the number of women 
who never returned to the clinic (overall 14% among the four methods under 
evaluation); consequently the pregnancy rate could be different. Other 
limitations include the analysis of two kinds of copper IUD and two kinds of 
contraceptive implants as the same IUD or implant, and the low number of users 
of implants. In addition, the DALY calculation relies on a number of estimates, 
which may vary in different parts of the world.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: LARC methods and DMPA are highly effective 
and women who were well-counselled used these methods for a long time. The 
benefit of averting maternal morbidity and mortality, child mortality, and 
unsafe abortions is an example to health policy makers to implement more family 
planning programmes and to offer contraceptive methods, mainly LARC and DMPA, at 
no cost or at affordable cost for the underprivileged population.
STUDY FUNDING/COMPETING INTERESTS: This study received partial financial support 
from the Fundação de Amparo à Pesquisa do Estado de São Paulo (FAPESP), grant # 
2012/12810-4 and from the National Research Council (CNPq), grant 
#573747/2008-3. B.F.B., M.P.G., and V.M.C. were fellows from the scientific 
initiation programme from FAPESP. Since the year 2001, all the TCu380A IUD were 
donated by Injeflex, São Paulo, Brazil, and from the year 2006 all the LNG-IUS 
were donated by the International Contraceptive Access Foundation (ICA), Turku, 
Finland. Both donations are as unrestricted grants. The authors declare that 
there are no conflicts of interest associated with this study.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For 
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deu191
PMID: 25085802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


941. Oncologist. 2014 Aug;19(8):892-9. doi: 10.1634/theoncologist.2013-0209. Epub
 2014 Aug 1.

Survival and lifetime costs associated with first-line bevacizumab use in older 
patients with metastatic colorectal cancer.

Shankaran V(1), Mummy D(2), Koepl L(2), Bansal A(2), Mirick DK(2), Yu E(2), 
Morlock R(2), Ogale S(2), Ramsey SD(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington, USA; School of Medicine and Pharmaceutical Outcomes, 
Research, and Policy Program School of Pharmacy, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, USA; Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA 
vshank@uw.edu.
(2)Division of Public Health Sciences, Fred Hutchinson Cancer Research Center, 
Seattle, Washington, USA; School of Medicine and Pharmaceutical Outcomes, 
Research, and Policy Program School of Pharmacy, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington, USA; Genentech, Inc., South San Francisco, California, USA.

INTRODUCTION: The objective of this study was to investigate clinical 
effectiveness and incremental lifetime costs associated with first-line 
bevacizumab in older patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (mCRC).
METHODS: Patients diagnosed with mCRC in 2004-2007 were identified from the 
Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare database and stratified by 
first-line treatment (no chemotherapy [CTx], CTx alone, CTx plus bevacizumab). 
The impact of first-line bevacizumab on survival was investigated using a 
propensity score adjusted multivariate Cox proportional hazards model. Mean 
lifetime costs for each cohort were calculated using Medicare claims for all 
services rendered between diagnosis and end of follow-up, adjusting for death 
and censoring.
RESULTS: A total of 4,414 patients (mean age: 77.3 years) were identified, of 
whom 15% received first-line bevacizumab. Among first-line-treated patients, 
bevacizumab receipt was associated with improved overall survival (hazard ratio: 
0.85 [95% confidence interval: 0.75-0.97]; p = .013), and this benefit was 
limited to patients who received >1 month of bevacizumab therapy. Median and 
mean survival were greatest in patients treated with CTx plus bevacizumab 
relative to CTx alone (CTx plus bevacizumab median 19.4 months [mean 28.0 
months] vs. CTx alone median 15.1 months [mean 22.9 months]; p < .001), as were 
mean lifetime costs (mean per patient cost $143,284 vs. $111,280). Compared with 
CTx alone, CTx plus bevacizumab was associated with a 5.1-month increase in mean 
survival and a $32,004 increase in mean lifetime treatment costs, with an 
incremental cost of $75,303 per life-year gained.
CONCLUSION: Bevacizumab use is associated with longer survival than CTx alone in 
older patients treated in real-world clinical settings, at an incremental cost 
of $75,303 per life-year gained.

摘要 简介。这项研究的目的是评估在转移性结直肠癌 (mCRC) 老年患者中应用贝伐单抗一线疗法相关的临床疗效和寿命成本增量值。 
方法。从监测、流行病学和最终结果医保数据库中，筛选出了 2004～2007 年间被诊断患有 mCRC 的患者，并按照一线疗法 [无化疗（ CTx）、单纯 
CTx、CTx 与贝伐单抗联用]进行了分层。借助倾向性评分校正后多变量 Cox 
比例风险模型，评估了贝伐单抗一线疗法对生存期的影响。利用诊断与随访结束之间所提供的所有服务的医保费用报销申请，并对死亡和删失例数作校正后计算出每组群的平均寿命成本。 
结果。总共筛选出 4 414 名 患者（平均年龄：77.3 岁），其中 15% 
接受了贝伐单抗一线疗法。在接受一线疗法的患者中，接受贝伐单抗治疗与总生存期改善存在关联［风险比：0.85（95% 置信区间：0.75–0.97）；p = 
.013］，这种益处限于接受贝伐单抗治疗 >1 个月的患者。相对于单用 CTx 的患者，接受 CTx 与贝伐单抗联合治疗的患者之中位和平均生存期最大 [CTx 
与贝伐单抗联用之中位值为 19.4 个月（平均值 28.0 个月），而单用 CTx 之中位值为 15.1 个月（平均值 22.9 个月］；p < 
.001］，平均寿命成本亦如此（ 平均每名患者的成本分别为 143 284 美元及 111 280 美元）。与单用 CTx 相比，CTx 
与贝伐单抗联用与平均生存期增加 5.1 个月以及平均寿命治疗成本增加 32 004 美元存在关联，每增加一个寿命年，增量成本为 75 303 美元。 
结论。在现实世界临床环境下接受治疗的老年患者中，贝伐单抗的使用比单用 CTx 时生存期的延长存在关联，每增加一个寿命年，增量成本为 75 303 美元。 
(The Oncologist) 2014;19:892–899

©AlphaMed Press.

DOI: 10.1634/theoncologist.2013-0209
PMCID: PMC4122470
PMID: 25085899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures of potential conflicts of interest 
may be found at the end of this article.


942. Circulation. 2014 Sep 30;130(14):1146-57. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.114.009985. Epub 2014 Aug 1.

Cost-effectiveness of percutaneous coronary intervention with drug-eluting 
stents versus bypass surgery for patients with 3-vessel or left main coronary 
artery disease: final results from the Synergy Between Percutaneous Coronary 
Intervention With TAXUS and Cardiac Surgery (SYNTAX) trial.

Cohen DJ(1), Osnabrugge RL(2), Magnuson EA(2), Wang K(2), Li H(2), 
Chinnakondepalli K(2), Pinto D(2), Abdallah MS(2), Vilain KA(2), Morice MC(2), 
Dawkins KD(2), Kappetein AP(2), Mohr FW(2), Serruys PW(2); SYNTAX Trial 
Investigators.

Author information:
(1)From Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, University of Missouri-Kansas 
City, Kansas City (D.J.C., R.L.O., E.A.M., K.W., H.L., K.C.); Erasmus University 
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands (R.L.O., A.P.K., P.W.S.); Harvard 
School of Public Health, Boston, MA (D.P.); Institut Jacques Cartier, Massy, 
France (M.-C.M.); Boston Scientific, Natick, MA (K.D.D.); and Herzzentrum 
Universität Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany (F.W.M.). dcohen@saint-lukes.org.
(2)From Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, University of Missouri-Kansas 
City, Kansas City (D.J.C., R.L.O., E.A.M., K.W., H.L., K.C.); Erasmus University 
Medical Center, Rotterdam, The Netherlands (R.L.O., A.P.K., P.W.S.); Harvard 
School of Public Health, Boston, MA (D.P.); Institut Jacques Cartier, Massy, 
France (M.-C.M.); Boston Scientific, Natick, MA (K.D.D.); and Herzzentrum 
Universität Leipzig, Leipzig, Germany (F.W.M.).

Comment in
    Nat Rev Cardiol. 2014 Oct;11(10):557.
    Evid Based Med. 2015 Apr;20(2):77.
    Circulation. 2015 Jul 7;132(1):e10.

BACKGROUND: The Synergy Between Percutaneous Coronary Intervention With TAXUS 
and Cardiac Surgery (SYNTAX) trial demonstrated that in patients with 3-vessel 
or left main coronary artery disease, coronary artery bypass graft surgery 
(CABG) was associated with a lower rate of cardiovascular death, myocardial 
infarction, stroke, or repeat revascularization compared with percutaneous 
coronary revascularization with drug-eluting stents (DES-PCI)). The long-term 
cost-effectiveness of these strategies is unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Between 2005 and 2007, 1800 patients with left main or 
3-vessel coronary artery disease were randomized to CABG (n=897) or DES-PCI 
(n=903). Costs were assessed from a US perspective, and health state utilities 
were evaluated with the EuroQOL questionnaire. A patient-level microsimulation 
model based on the 5-year in-trial data was used to extrapolate costs, life 
expectancy, and quality-adjusted life expectancy over a lifetime horizon. 
Although initial procedural costs were $3415 per patient lower with CABG, total 
hospitalization costs were $10 036 per patient higher. Over the next 5 years, 
follow-up costs were higher with DES-PCI as a result of more frequent 
hospitalizations, revascularization procedures, and higher medication costs. 
Over a lifetime horizon, CABG remained more costly than DES-PCI, but the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was favorable ($16 537 per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained) and remained <$20 000 per quality-adjusted life-year in most 
bootstrap replicates. Results were consistent across a wide range of assumptions 
about the long-term effect of CABG versus DES-PCI on events and costs. In 
patients with left main disease or a SYNTAX score ≤22, however, DES-PCI was 
economically dominant compared with CABG, although these findings were less 
certain.
CONCLUSIONS: For most patients with 3-vessel or left main coronary artery 
disease, CABG is a clinically and economically attractive revascularization 
strategy compared with DES-PCI. However, among patients with less complex 
disease, DES-PCI may be preferred on both clinical and economic grounds.
CLINICAL TRIAL REGISTRATION URL: www.clinicaltrials.gov. Unique identifier: 
NCT00114972.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.114.009985
PMID: 25085960 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


943. Soc Sci Med. 2014 Oct;118:27-32. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.07.022. Epub
2014  Jul 15.

Evidence of accelerated aging among African Americans and its implications for 
mortality.

Levine ME(1), Crimmins EM(2).

Author information:
(1)Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
CA 90089, USA. Electronic address: canon@usc.edu.
(2)Davis School of Gerontology, University of Southern California, Los Angeles, 
CA 90089, USA.

Blacks experience morbidity and mortality earlier in the life course compared to 
whites. Such premature declines in health may be indicative of an acceleration 
of the aging process. The current study uses data on 7644 black and white 
participants, ages 30 and above, from the third National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey, to compare the biological ages of blacks and whites as 
indicated from a combination of ten biomarkers and to determine if such 
differences in biological age relative to chronological age account for racial 
disparities in mortality. At a specified chronological age, blacks are 
approximately 3 years older biologically than whites. Differences in biological 
age between blacks and whites appear to increase up until ages 60-65 and then 
decline, presumably due to mortality selection. Finally, differences in 
biological age were found to completely account for higher levels of all-cause, 
cardiovascular and cancer mortality among blacks. Overall, these results suggest 
that being black is associated with significantly higher biological age at a 
given chronological age and that this is a pathway to early death both overall 
and from the major age-related diseases.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.07.022
PMCID: PMC4197001
PMID: 25086423 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


944. BMC Health Serv Res. 2014 Aug 3;14:332. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-332.

Using QALYs in telehealth evaluations: a systematic review of methodology and 
transparency.

Bergmo TS(1).

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Centre for Telemedicine and Integrated Care, University Hospital of 
North Norway, N-9038 Tromsø Norway. trine.bergmo@telemed.no.

BACKGROUND: The quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) is a recognised outcome 
measure in health economic evaluations. QALY incorporates individual preferences 
and identifies health gains by combining mortality and morbidity into one single 
index number. A literature review was conducted to examine and discuss the use 
of QALYs to measure outcomes in telehealth evaluations.
METHODS: Evaluations were identified via a literature search in all relevant 
databases. Only economic evaluations measuring both costs and QALYs using 
primary patient level data of two or more alternatives were included.
RESULTS: A total of 17 economic evaluations estimating QALYs were identified. 
All evaluations used validated generic health related-quality of life (HRQoL) 
instruments to describe health states. They used accepted methods for 
transforming the quality scores into utility values. The methodology used varied 
between the evaluations. The evaluations used four different preference measures 
(EQ-5D, SF-6D, QWB and HUI3), and utility scores were elicited from the general 
population. Most studies reported the methodology used in calculating QALYs. The 
evaluations were less transparent in reporting utility weights at different time 
points and variability around utilities and QALYs. Few made adjustments for 
differences in baseline utilities. The QALYs gained in the reviewed evaluations 
varied from 0.001 to 0.118 in implying a small but positive effect of telehealth 
intervention on patient's health. The evaluations reported mixed 
cost-effectiveness results.
CONCLUSION: The use of QALYs in telehealth evaluations has increased over the 
last few years. Different methodologies and utility measures have been used to 
calculate QALYs. A more harmonised methodology and utility measure is needed to 
ensure comparability across telehealth evaluations.

DOI: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-332
PMCID: PMC4132195
PMID: 25086443 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


945. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2014 Dec;12(6):611-22. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-014-0116-7.

Cost effectiveness of renal denervation therapy for the treatment of resistant 
hypertension in the UK.

Gladwell D(1), Henry T, Cook M, Akehurst R.

Author information:
(1)BresMed Health Solutions, North Church House, Queen Street, Sheffield, S1 
2DW, England.

BACKGROUND: Patients with resistant hypertension are at a high risk for 
developing serious cardiovascular events and renal complications. Catheter-based 
renal denervation (RDN) is a procedure with the potential to normalize systolic 
blood pressure (SBP).
OBJECTIVE: The overall objective of the study was to estimate the cost 
effectiveness of RDN in the UK for patients with diagnosed resistant 
hypertension, expressed as a standard cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) 
ratio.
METHODS: A patient lifetime, economic, Markov heath-state model was developed, 
linking expected changes in SBP to reductions in risks for cardiovascular events 
and renal complications, using the Framingham, PROCAM, and other published risk 
equations. The model was developed from the perspective of the healthcare payer 
in the UK using relevant cost data from 2012. Clinical effectiveness for RDN (a 
mean reduction of 32 mmHg in SBP) was taken from the phase III Symplicity HTN-2 
trial, in patients with a mean baseline SBP of 178 mmHg. HTN-2 was the largest, 
multicenter randomized controlled trial on the effectiveness of RDN therapy at 
the time of the model development. A systematic review identified UK-specific 
sources for utility, mortality, and cost parameter values, and included recently 
published UK guidelines for the clinical management of hypertension.
RESULTS: RDN therapy resulted in an increase in health benefit over a patient's 
lifetime compared with anti-hypertensive pharmacological treatment alone (12.77 
vs. 12.16 QALYs; discounted). Additional lifetime costs per patient were modeled 
at £2,961; equivalent to an incremental cost per additional QALY of £4,805. This 
result was robust to full probabilistic sensitivity and scenario analyses.
CONCLUSION: RDN is an effective clinical procedure that offers patients a 
meaningful and cost-effective alternative for achieving SBP control, where 
traditional combination, anti-hypertensive pharmacologic strategies have been 
proven to be ineffective.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-014-0116-7
PMID: 25086585 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


946. Ann Thorac Surg. 2014 Oct;98(4):1214-22. doi:
10.1016/j.athoracsur.2014.05.025.  Epub 2014 Jul 31.

Cost-effectiveness of initial diagnostic strategies for pulmonary nodules 
presenting to thoracic surgeons.

Deppen SA(1), Davis WT(2), Green EA(3), Rickman O(3), Aldrich MC(3), Fletcher 
S(3), Putnam JB Jr(1), Grogan EL(4).

Author information:
(1)Tennessee Valley Health System Veterans Affairs, Nashville, Tennessee; 
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(2)Tennessee Valley Health System Veterans Affairs, Nashville, Tennessee.
(3)Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee.
(4)Tennessee Valley Health System Veterans Affairs, Nashville, Tennessee; 
Vanderbilt University Medical Center, Nashville, Tennessee. Electronic address: 
eric.grogan@vanderbilt.edu.

BACKGROUND: Patients presenting to thoracic surgeons with pulmonary nodules 
suggestive of lung cancer have varied diagnostic options including navigation 
bronchoscopy (NB), computed tomography-guided fine-needle aspiration (CT-FNA), 
(18)F-fluoro-deoxyglucose positron emission tomography (FDG-PET) and 
video-assisted thoracoscopic surgery (VATS). We studied the relative 
cost-effective initial diagnostic strategy for a 1.5- to 2-cm nodule suggestive 
of cancer.
METHODS: A decision analysis model was developed to assess the costs and 
outcomes of four initial diagnostic strategies for diagnosis of a 1.5- to 2-cm 
nodule with either a 50% or 65% pretest probability of cancer. Medicare 
reimbursement rates were used for costs. Quality-adjusted life years were 
estimated using patient survival based on pathologic staging and utilities 
derived from the literature.
RESULTS: When cancer prevalence was 65%, tissue acquisition strategies of NB and 
CT-FNA had higher quality-adjusted life years compared with either FDG-PET or 
VATS, and VATS was the most costly strategy. In sensitivity analyses, NB and 
CT-FNA were more cost-effective than FDG-PET when FDG-PET specificity was less 
than 72%. When cancer prevalence was 50%, NB, CT-FNA, and FDG-PET had similar 
cost-effectiveness.
CONCLUSIONS: Both NB and CT-FNA diagnostic strategies are more cost-effective 
than either VATS biopsy or FDG-PET scan to diagnose lung cancer in moderate- to 
high-risk nodules and resulted in fewer nontherapeutic operations when FDG-PET 
specificity was less than 72%. An FDG-PET scan for diagnosis of lung cancer may 
not be cost-effective in regions of the country where specificity is low.

Copyright © 2014 The Society of Thoracic Surgeons. Published by Elsevier Inc. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.athoracsur.2014.05.025
PMCID: PMC4186897
PMID: 25087933 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


947. Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2015 Mar-Apr;11(2):296-301. doi: 
10.1016/j.soard.2014.05.021. Epub 2014 Jun 2.

Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy in patients over 60 years: impact of age on 
weight loss and co-morbidity improvement.

Luppi CR(1), Balagué C(2), Targarona EM(2), Mocanu S(2), Bollo J(2), Martínez 
C(2), Trias M(2).

Author information:
(1)General and Digestive Surgery Unit, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, 
Sant Antoni Maria Claret, 167, 08025 Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: 
crodriguezlu@santpau.cat.
(2)General and Digestive Surgery Unit, Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, 
Sant Antoni Maria Claret, 167, 08025 Barcelona, Spain.

Comment in
    Surg Obes Relat Dis. 2015 Mar-Apr;11(2):301-2.

BACKGROUND: Advanced age has traditionally been considered a relative 
contraindication to bariatric surgery due to increased perioperative risk and 
less weight loss. However, it is now being reconsidered in older patients after 
encouraging results in recent series and the increasing life expectancy. We 
compared operative and postoperative outcomes of laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy 
in patients over 60 years with outcomes in younger patients. We also, analyzed 
the effect of bariatric surgery on improvement and resolution of co-morbidities 
in the older group.
METHODS: From November 2008 to November 2013, 130 patients underwent 
laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy. Of these, 28 patients (21.5%) were 60 years or 
older. Outcomes in terms of perioperative complications, short-term and 
medium-term weight loss, remission or improvement of co-morbidities and 
medication requirements were extracted from our prospective database.
RESULTS: Short-term mortality was 0% and 30-day complication rate was similar in 
both groups (17.9% versus 17.6% according to Clavien-Dindo classification). At 
12 months postsurgery, older patients had lost 49% percent of excess weight 
compared to 60% in the younger group (P = 0.012). At 2 years, the results were 
45% versus 60%, respectively, with P = 0.015. At least 1 major co-morbidity 
improved in 65.2% of older patients. Before surgery, the older group took an 
average of 4.3 medications compared to 2.7 at 1 year after surgery (P<0.001).
CONCLUSION: Laparoscopic sleeve gastrectomy is a safe and effective treatment 
for morbid obesity in people over 60 years, although younger patients show 
greater weight loss. Daily medication requirements and co-morbidities decrease 
significantly in older patients after this procedure.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Bariatric Surgery. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.soard.2014.05.021
PMID: 25088486 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


948. Gastrointest Endosc. 2014 Nov;80(5):842-8. doi: 10.1016/j.gie.2014.02.1031.
Epub  2014 Aug 1.

A risk-profiling approach for surveillance of inflammatory bowel 
disease-colorectal carcinoma is more cost-effective: a comparative 
cost-effectiveness analysis between international guidelines.

Lutgens M(1), van Oijen M(2), Mooiweer E(3), van der Valk M(3), Vleggaar F(3), 
Siersema P(3), Oldenburg B(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands; UCLA/VA Center for Outcomes Research and 
Education, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands; UCLA/VA Center for Outcomes Research and 
Education, Los Angeles, California, USA; Division of Digestive Diseases, David 
Geffen School of Medicine at UCLA, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands.
(4)Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, University Medical Center 
Utrecht, Utrecht, the Netherlands; Dutch Initiative on Crohn and Colitis.

Comment in
    Gastrointest Endosc. 2014 Nov;80(5):849-51.

BACKGROUND: Colonoscopic surveillance for neoplasia is recommended for patients 
with inflammatory bowel disease (IBD)-related colitis. However, data on 
cost-effectiveness predate current international guidelines.
OBJECTIVE: To compare cost-effectiveness based on contemporary data between the 
surveillance strategies of the American Gastroenterological Association (AGA) 
and British Society of Gastroenterology (BSG).
DESIGN: We constructed a Markov decision model to simulate the clinical course 
of IBD patients.
SETTING: We compared the 2 surveillance strategies for a base case of a 
40-year-old colitis patient who was followed for 40 years.
PATIENTS: AGA surveillance distinguishes 2 groups: a high-risk group with annual 
surveillance and an average-risk group with biannual surveillance. BSG 
surveillance distinguishes 3 risk groups with yearly, 3-year, or 5-year 
surveillance.
INTERVENTIONS: Patients could move from a no-dysplasia state with colonoscopic 
surveillance to 1 of 3 states for which proctocolectomy was indicated: (1) 
dysplasia/local cancer, (2) regional/metastasized cancer, or (3) refractory 
disease. After proctocolectomy, a patient moved to a no-colon state without 
surveillance.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASUREMENTS: Direct costs of medical care, quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios.
RESULTS: BSG surveillance dominated AGA surveillance with $9846 per QALY. Both 
strategies were equally effective with 24.16 QALYs, but BSG surveillance was 
associated with lower costs because of fewer colonoscopies performed. Costs 
related to IBD, surgery, or cancer did not affect cost-effectiveness.
LIMITATIONS: The model depends on the accuracy of derived data, and the 
assumptions that were made to reflect real-life situations. Study conclusions 
may only apply to the U.S. health care system.
CONCLUSION: The updated risk-profiling approach for surveillance of IBD 
colorectal carcinoma by the BSG guideline appears to be more cost-effective.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gie.2014.02.1031
PMID: 25088918 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


949. Lancet Oncol. 2014 Sep;15(10):1065-75. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70330-4.
Epub  2014 Jul 31.

FOLFIRI plus cetuximab versus FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab as first-line treatment 
for patients with metastatic colorectal cancer (FIRE-3): a randomised, 
open-label, phase 3 trial.

Heinemann V(1), von Weikersthal LF(2), Decker T(3), Kiani A(4), Vehling-Kaiser 
U(5), Al-Batran SE(6), Heintges T(7), Lerchenmüller C(8), Kahl C(9), Seipelt 
G(10), Kullmann F(11), Stauch M(12), Scheithauer W(13), Hielscher J(14), Scholz 
M(15), Müller S(16), Link H(17), Niederle N(18), Rost A(19), Höffkes HG(20), 
Moehler M(21), Lindig RU(22), Modest DP(23), Rossius L(24), Kirchner T(25), Jung 
A(25), Stintzing S(23).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology & Comprehensive Cancer Center, University 
Hospital Grosshadern, Munich, Germany. Electronic address: 
volker.heinemann@med.uni-muenchen.de.
(2)Gesundheitszentrum St Marien, Amberg, Germany.
(3)Oncological Practice, Ravensburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Medicine IV, Klinikum Bayreuth GmbH, Bayreuth, Germany.
(5)Oncological Practice, Landshut, Germany.
(6)Department of Hematology and Oncology, Krankenhaus Nordwest, Frankfurt/Main, 
Germany.
(7)Department of Medicine II, Städtisches Klinikum Neuss, Neuss, Germany.
(8)Oncological Practice, Münster, Germany.
(9)Haematology and Oncology, Städtisches Klinikum Magdeburg, Magdeburg, Germany.
(10)Oncological Practice, Bad Soden, Germany.
(11)Department of Medicine I, Klinikum Weiden, Germany.
(12)Oncological Practice, Kronach, Germany.
(13)Department of Internal Medicine I and Comprehensive Cancer Center, Medical 
University of Vienna, Vienna, Austria.
(14)Department of Surgery, Klinikum Chemnitz gGmbH, Chirurgische Onkologie, 
Chemnitz, Germany.
(15)Department of Medicine, Klinikum Stuttgart Krankenhaus Bad Cannstatt, 
Stuttgart, Germany.
(16)Oncological Practice, Ansbach, Germany.
(17)Department of Medicine I, Westpfalz-Klinikum GmbH, Kaiserslautern, Germany.
(18)Department of Oncology, Haematology and Palliative Care, Klinikum Leverkusen 
gGmbH, Leverkusen, Germany.
(19)Medical Clinic V (Haematology and Oncology), Klinikum Darmstadt, Darmstadt, 
Germany.
(20)Klinikum Fulda, Tumorklinik, Fulda, Germany.
(21)Medical Department 1, Johannes-Gutenberg Universität Mainz, Mainz, Germany.
(22)Klinik für Innere Medizin II, Abteilung Hämatologie/Onkologie, 
Universitätsklinikum Jena, Jena, Germany.
(23)Department of Medical Oncology & Comprehensive Cancer Center, University 
Hospital Grosshadern, Munich, Germany.
(24)Department of Medical Oncology & Comprehensive Cancer Center, University 
Hospital Grosshadern, Munich, Germany; Institute of Pathology, University of 
Munich, Munich, Germany.
(25)Institute of Pathology, University of Munich, Munich, Germany.

Comment in
    Lancet Oncol. 2014 Sep;15(10):1040-1.
    Nat Rev Clin Oncol. 2014 Oct;11(10):560.
    Lancet Oncol. 2014 Dec;15(13):e581.
    Lancet Oncol. 2014 Dec;15(13):e581-2.
    Lancet Oncol. 2014 Dec;15(13):e582-3.
    Lancet Oncol. 2014 Dec;15(13):e583-4.

BACKGROUND: Cetuximab and bevacizumab have both been shown to improve outcomes 
in patients with metastatic colorectal cancer when added to chemotherapy 
regimens; however, their comparative effectiveness when partnered with 
first-line fluorouracil, folinic acid, and irinotecan (FOLFIRI) is unknown. We 
aimed to compare these agents in patients with KRAS (exon 2) codon 12/13 
wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer.
METHODS: In this open-label, randomised, phase 3 trial, we recruited patients 
aged 18-75 years with stage IV, histologically confirmed colorectal cancer, an 
Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group (ECOG) performance status of 0-2, an 
estimated life expectancy of greater than 3 months, and adequate organ function, 
from centres in Germany and Austria. Patients were centrally randomised by fax 
(1:1) to FOLFIRI plus cetuximab or FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab (using permuted 
blocks of randomly varying size), stratified according to ECOG performance 
status, number of metastatic sites, white blood cell count, and alkaline 
phosphatase concentration. The primary endpoint was objective response analysed 
by intention to treat. The study has completed recruitment, but follow-up of 
participants is ongoing. The trial is registered with ClinicalTrials.gov, number 
NCT00433927.
FINDINGS: Between Jan 23, 2007, and Sept 19, 2012, 592 patients with KRAS exon 2 
wild-type tumours were randomly assigned and received treatment (297 in the 
FOLFIRI plus cetuximab group and 295 in the FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab group). 184 
(62·0%, 95% CI 56·2-67·5) patients in the cetuximab group achieved an objective 
response compared with 171 (58·0%, 52·1-63·7) in the bevacizumab group (odds 
ratio 1·18, 95% CI 0·85-1·64; p=0·18). Median progression-free survival was 10·0 
months (95% CI 8·8-10·8) in the cetuximab group and 10·3 months (9·8-11·3) in 
the bevacizumab group (hazard ratio [HR] 1·06, 95% CI 0·88-1·26; p=0·55); 
however, median overall survival was 28·7 months (95% CI 24·0-36·6) in the 
cetuximab group compared with 25·0 months (22·7-27·6) in the bevacizumab group 
(HR 0·77, 95% CI 0·62-0·96; p=0·017). Safety profiles were consistent with the 
known side-effects of the study drugs. The most common grade 3 or worse adverse 
events in both treatment groups were haematotoxicity (73 [25%] of 297 patients 
in the cetuximab group vs 62 [21%] of 295 patients in the bevacizumab group), 
skin reactions (77 [26%] vs six [2%]), and diarrhoea (34 [11%] vs 40 [14%]).
INTERPRETATION: Although the proportion of patients who achieved an objective 
response did not significantly differ between the FOLFIRI plus cetuximab and 
FOLFIRI plus bevacizumab groups, the association with longer overall survival 
suggests that FOLFIRI plus cetuximab could be the preferred first-line regimen 
for patients with KRAS exon 2 wild-type metastatic colorectal cancer.
FUNDING: Merck KGaA.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70330-4
PMID: 25088940 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


950. Am J Transplant. 2014 Jul;14(7):1470.

What you need to know about the new Kidney Allocation System.

Pondrom S.

PMID: 25089319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


951. Eur J Cancer Prev. 2015 Mar;24(2):141-9. doi: 10.1097/CEJ.0000000000000056.

Health system costs of skin cancer and cost-effectiveness of skin cancer 
prevention and screening: a systematic review.

Gordon LG(1), Rowell D.

Author information:
(1)aSchool of Medicine, Centre for Applied Health Economics bPopulation and 
Social Health Research Program, Griffith Health Institute, Griffith University, 
Logan Campus, Queensland, Australia.

The objective of this study was to review the literature for malignant melanoma, 
basal and squamous cell carcinomas to understand: (a) national estimates of the 
direct health system costs of skin cancer and (b) the cost-effectiveness of 
interventions for skin cancer prevention or early detection. A systematic review 
was performed using Medline, Cochrane Library and the National Health Service 
Economic Evaluation Databases as well as a manual search of reference lists to 
identify relevant studies up to 31 August 2013. A narrative synthesis approach 
was used to summarize the data. National cost estimates were adjusted for 
country-specific inflation and presented in 2013 euros. The CHEERS statement was 
used to assess the quality of the economic evaluation studies. Sixteen studies 
reporting national estimates of skin cancer costs and 11 cost-effectiveness 
studies on skin cancer prevention or early detection were identified. Relative 
to the size of their respective populations, the annual direct health system 
costs for skin cancer were highest for Australia, New Zealand, Sweden and 
Denmark (2013 euros). Skin cancer prevention initiatives are highly 
cost-effective and may also be cost-saving. Melanoma early detection programmes 
aimed at high-risk individuals may also be cost-effective; however, updated 
analyses are needed. There is a significant cost burden of skin cancer for many 
countries and health expenditure for this disease will grow as incidence 
increases. Public investment in skin cancer prevention and early detection 
programmes show strong potential for health and economic benefits.

DOI: 10.1097/CEJ.0000000000000056
PMID: 25089375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


952. Curr Opin Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2014 Oct;22(5):344-8. doi: 
10.1097/MOO.0000000000000091.

Cost effectiveness of cochlear implants.

McKinnon BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Shea Ear Clinic & Department of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery, 
University of Tennessee Health Sciences Center, Memphis, Tennessee, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Health professionals would be well served to have as good an 
understanding of cost effectiveness as clinical effectiveness, as both are 
critical to their patients having access to better health care and achieving 
better health outcomes. Cost-effectiveness evaluations allow decision makers a 
means of comparing different interventions when deciding resource allocation. It 
is a powerful tool, but like any analysis, not understanding the processes and 
assumptions involved leads to misinterpretation.
RECENT FINDINGS: Cost effectiveness is an economic evaluation of cost and 
benefit. The threshold at which an intervention is considered cost effective is 
reflected by the payer's "willingness to pay", which can vary considerably from 
country to country. These evaluations are complex and can involve the use of 
incomplete financial data, and subjective impressions of benefit, while 
excluding broader social and economic benefits.
SUMMARY: Pediatric unilateral and simultaneous bilateral cochlear implantation, 
and adult unilateral cochlear implantation are felt to be cost effective in the 
United States. Pediatric sequential cochlear implantation, adult bilateral 
cochlear implantation, implantation in the aged and the long deaf are not. 
However, cost-effectiveness economic evaluations are only part of broader 
assessment of social and economic benefit when determining resource allocation.

DOI: 10.1097/MOO.0000000000000091
PMID: 25089664 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


953. J Pers Soc Psychol. 2014 Aug;107(2):352-68. doi: 10.1037/a0036719.

Treating personality-relationship transactions with respect: narrow facets, 
advanced models, and extended time frames.

Mund M(1), Neyer FJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Institut für Psychologie, Friedrich-Schiller-Universität Jena.

Contrary to premises of dynamic transactionism, most studies investigating 
personality-relationship transaction only found personality effects on 
relationships but failed to find effects of relationship experiences on 
personality development. The current study reconsiders this issue in 3 ways. 
First, alongside the broad Big Five characteristics (Neuroticism, Extraversion, 
Openness, Agreeableness, and Conscientiousness), specific personality facets 
were considered to make comparisons with relationships more symmetric. Second, a 
recent extension of latent change modeling was applied allowing for a 
theoretically more appropriate model that compensates for the shortcomings of 
traditionally used cross-lagged panel or growth curve models. Third, 
personality-relationship transaction was studied from young adulthood to midlife 
using a 15-year longitudinal study with 654 German adults. Results showed 
patterns of personality-relationship transaction with the romantic partner, 
friends, kin, and other interaction partners. Specifically, the development of 
Neuroticism, Agreeableness, and Conscientiousness and their facets was closely 
