interacting with partner and friend relationships, underlining the importance of 
these relationships for personality maturation during the adult years. We 
conclude that relationship effects have often been underestimated in previous 
studies. They are not bound to specific developmental periods, such as emerging 
adulthood, but their detection depends on the modeling approach and the analysis 
level (broad dimensions vs. facets). Relationship effects are most likely to 
occur in relationships that reflect self-selected life styles and circumstances.

DOI: 10.1037/a0036719
PMID: 25090133 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


954. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 4;9(8):e103480. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103480. 
eCollection 2014.

Body size, growth and life span: implications for the polewards range shift of 
Octopus tetricus in south-eastern Australia.

Ramos JE(1), Pecl GT(1), Moltschaniwskyj NA(2), Strugnell JM(3), León RI(1), 
Semmens JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Marine and Antarctic Studies, University of Tasmania, Hobart, 
Tasmania, Australia.
(2)School of Environmental and Life Sciences, University of Newcastle, Ourimbah, 
New South Wales, Australia.
(3)Department of Genetics, La Trobe Institute for Molecular Science, La Trobe 
University, Bundoora, Victoria, Australia.

Understanding the response of any species to climate change can be challenging. 
However, in short-lived species the faster turnover of generations may 
facilitate the examination of responses associated with longer-term 
environmental change. Octopus tetricus, a commercially important species, has 
undergone a recent polewards range shift in the coastal waters of south-eastern 
Australia, thought to be associated with the southerly extension of the warm 
East Australian Current. At the cooler temperatures of a polewards distribution 
limit, growth of a species could be slower, potentially leading to a bigger body 
size and resulting in a slower population turnover, affecting population 
viability at the extreme of the distribution. Growth rates, body size, and life 
span of O. tetricus were examined at the leading edge of a polewards range shift 
in Tasmanian waters (40°S and 147°E) throughout 2011. Octopus tetricus had a 
relatively small body size and short lifespan of approximately 11 months that, 
despite cooler temperatures, would allow a high rate of population turnover and 
may facilitate the population increase necessary for successful establishment in 
the new extended area of the range. Temperature, food availability and gender 
appear to influence growth rate. Individuals that hatched during cooler and more 
productive conditions, but grew during warming conditions, exhibited faster 
growth rates and reached smaller body sizes than individuals that hatched into 
warmer waters but grew during cooling conditions. This study suggests that fast 
growth, small body size and associated rapid population turnover may facilitate 
the range shift of O. tetricus into Tasmanian waters.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103480
PMCID: PMC4121162
PMID: 25090250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


955. Curr Opin Support Palliat Care. 2014 Sep;8(3):250-7. doi: 
10.1097/SPC.0000000000000078.

The role of palliative surgery in castration-resistant prostate cancer.

Piper C(1), Porres D, Pfister D, Heidenreich A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, RWTH Uniklinik Aachen, Aachen, Germany.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: Androgen deprivation therapy with luteinising hormone 
releasing hormone (LHRH) analogues or antagonists represents the treatment of 
choice in men metastatic prostate cancer (PCA). Depending on the serum 
concentration of the prostate-specific antigen (PSA) nadir, the survival might 
vary between 11 and 78 months. About one-third of all patients without local 
treatment of the primary will develop significant complications of the lower and 
upper urinary tract because of local progression of PCA. It is the purpose of 
the review to inform the treating physician about palliative surgical options in 
men with castration-resistant prostate cancer (CRPC).
RECENT FINDINGS: In men with CRPC and lower urinary tract symptoms, palliative 
transurethral resection of the prostate (TUR-P) can be performed with a 60-70% 
success rate. Infiltration of the pelvic floor, the bladder neck and trigone and 
the external urethral sphincter can make palliative radical surgery necessary. 
Bladder neck closure with continent vesicostomy, radical cystoprostatectomy with 
an incontinent urinary diversion, and anterior and posterior exenteration are 
individual therapeutic options in men with a good performance status and a 
considerable life expectancy. Symptomatic involvement of the upper urinary tract 
can be managed by placement of endoluminal stents or a percutaneous nephrostomy 
in men with a poor performance. In men with a good response to androgen 
deprivation therapy (ADT) and a good performance status reconstructive ureteral 
surgery might be considered and the options of ureteral reimplantation, ureter 
ileal replacement and a subcutaneous pyelovesical bypass have to be discussed.
SUMMARY: There are various palliative surgical treatment options in the 
management of men with CRPC and symptomatic deterioration of the lower or the 
upper urinary tract, which should be considered in well selected patients. The 
indication to perform one of the above-mentioned surgical approaches needs to be 
discussed in a multidisciplinary tumour board.

DOI: 10.1097/SPC.0000000000000078
PMID: 25090289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


956. Acta Gastroenterol Belg. 2014 Jun;77(2):285-90.

Current and future health and economic impact of hepatitis C in Belgium.

Vandijck D, Moreno C, Stärkel P, Van Damme P, Van Vlierberghe H, Hindman SJ, 
Razavi H, Laleman W.

BACKGROUND AND STUDY AIMS: Chronic hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection is a 
serious global health problem affecting 150 million individuals worldwide. 
Although infection rates are decreasing, an aging population with progressing 
disease is expected to result in increased burden of advanced stage disease with 
high associated costs. This analysis describes the current and projected future 
economic impact of HCV sequelae in Belgium.
METHODS: A previously described and validated model was populated with Belgian 
inputs and calibrated to project the current and future health and economic 
burden of HCV. Monte Carlo and sensitivity analyses were run to quantify 
uncertainty. All estimates exclude the cost of antiviral therapy.
RESULTS: Costs associated with HCV were projected to peak in 2026 at Euro126M 
(Euro30M-Euro257M), while decompensated cirrhosis and hepatocellular carcinoma 
costs were projected to increase until 2031 and 2034. The projected 2014-2030 
cumulative cost of HCV under current conditions was Euro1,850M. Scenarios to 
reduce the burden of HCV could result in Euro70M-Euro400M in cumulative cost 
savings. Starting treatment (1,000 patients) in 2015 could result in Euro150M 
cost savings. The lifetime cost of HCV increases with life expectancy, with 
highest future costs projected among young females with early stage disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The economic burden of HCV and advanced stage disease were 
projected to further increase. Cost reductions are possible with timely 
interventions aimed at minimizing the health burden of advanced stage disease.

PMID: 25090835 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Feb;86(2):159-67. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2014-308107. Epub 2014 Aug 4.

CNS involvement in V30M transthyretin amyloidosis: clinical, neuropathological 
and biochemical findings.

Maia LF(1), Magalhães R(2), Freitas J(3), Taipa R(4), Pires MM(4), Osório H(5), 
Dias D(6), Pessegueiro H(7), Correia M(3), Coelho T(8).

Author information:
(1)Unidade Corino de Andrade, Hospital de Santo António, Centro Hospitalar do 
Porto, Porto, Portugal Serviço de Neurologia, Hospital de Santo António, Centro 
Hospitalar do Porto, Porto, Portugal Department of Cellular Neurology, Hertie 
Institute for Clinical Brain Research, Tübingen, Germany.
(2)Departamento de Estudos Populacionais, Instituto de Ciências Biomédicas Abel 
Salazar, Universidade do Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(3)Serviço de Neurologia, Hospital de Santo António, Centro Hospitalar do Porto, 
Porto, Portugal.
(4)Unidade de Neuropatologia, Hospital de Santo António, Centro Hospitalar do 
Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(5)Instituto de Patologia e Imunologia Molecular da Universidade do Porto, 
IPATIMUP, Porto, Portugal.
(6)Serviço de Neuroradiologia, Hospital de Santo António, Centro Hospitalar do 
Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(7)Departamento de Medicina, Hospital de Santo António, Centro Hospitalar do 
Porto, Porto, Portugal.
(8)Unidade Corino de Andrade, Hospital de Santo António, Centro Hospitalar do 
Porto, Porto, Portugal Serviço de Neurofisiologia, Hospital de Santo António, 
Centro Hospitalar do Porto, Porto, Portugal.

Comment in
    J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 Feb;86(2):124.

OBJECTIVES: Since liver transplant (LT) was introduced to treat patients with 
familial amyloid polyneuropathy carrying the V30M mutation (ATTR-V30M), ocular 
and cardiac complications have developed. Long-term central nervous system (CNS) 
involvement was not investigated. Our goals were to: (1) identify and 
characterise focal neurological episodes (FNEs) due to CNS dysfunction in 
ATTR-V30M patients; (2) characterise neuropathological features and temporal 
profile of CNS transthyretin amyloidosis.
METHODS: We monitored the presence and type of FNEs in 87 consecutive ATTR-V30M 
and 35 non-ATTR LT patients. FNEs were investigated with CT scan, EEG and 
extensive neurovascular workup. MRI studies were not performed because all 
patients had cardiac pacemakers as part of the LT protocol. We characterised 
transthyretin amyloid deposition in the brains of seven ATTR-V30M patients, dead 
3-13 years after polyneuropathy onset.
RESULTS: FNEs occurred in 31% (27/87) of ATTR-V30M and in 5.7% (2/35) of the 
non-ATTR transplanted patients (OR=7.0, 95% CI 1.5 to 33.5). FNEs occurred on 
average 14.6 years after disease onset (95% CI 13.3 to 16.0) in ATTR-V30M 
patients, which is beyond the life expectancy of non-transplanted ATTR-V30M 
patients (10.9, 95% CI 10.5 to 11.3). ATTR-V30M patients with FNEs had longer 
disease duration (OR=1.24; 95% CI 1.07 to 1.43), renal dysfunction (OR=4.65; 95% 
CI 1.20 to 18.05) and were men (OR=3.57; 95% CI 1.02 to 12.30). CNS 
transthyretin amyloidosis was already present 3 years after polyneuropathy onset 
and progressed from the meninges and its vessels towards meningocortical vessels 
and the superficial brain parenchyma, as disease duration increased.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings indicate that CNS clinical involvement occurs in 
ATTR-V30M patients regardless of LT. Longer disease duration after LT can 
provide the necessary time for transthyretin amyloidosis to progress until it 
becomes clinically relevant. Highly sensitive imaging methods are needed to 
identify and monitor brain ATTR. Disease modifying therapies should consider 
brain TTR as a target.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2014-308107
PMID: 25091367 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. Health Aff (Millwood). 2014 Aug;33(8):1375-82. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2013.1273.

Trends in the black-white life expectancy gap among US states, 1990-2009.

Harper S(1), MacLehose RF(2), Kaufman JS(3).

Author information:
(1)Sam Harper (sam.harper@mcgill.ca) is an assistant professor of epidemiology, 
biostatistics, and occupational health at McGill University, in Montreal, 
Quebec.
(2)Richard F. MacLehose is an associate professor of epidemiology and community 
health at the University of Minnesota, in Minneapolis.
(3)Jay S. Kaufman is a professor of epidemiology, biostatistics, and 
occupational health at McGill University.

Nationwide differences in US life expectancy trends for blacks and whites may 
mask considerable differences by state that are relevant to policies aimed at 
reducing health inequalities. We calculated annual state-specific life 
expectancies for blacks and whites from 1990 to 2009 using age-specific 
mortality counts and census-based denominators. Nationally, the black-white 
difference in life expectancy at birth shrank during the period by 2.7 years for 
males (from 8.1 to 5.4 years) and by 1.7 years for females (from 5.5 to 
3.8 years). We found considerable variation across states in both the magnitude 
of the life expectancy gap (approximately fifteen years) and the change during 
the past two decades (about six years). Decomposition analysis showed that New 
York made the most profound contribution to reducing the gap, but less favorable 
trends in a number of states, notably California and Texas, kept the gap from 
shrinking further. Large state variations in the pace of change in the racial 
gap in life expectancy suggest that state-specific determinants merit further 
investigation.

Project HOPE—The People-to-People Health Foundation, Inc.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2013.1273
PMID: 25092839 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. Ther Umsch. 2014 Aug;71(8):461-8. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000538.

[Antiretroviral therapy].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

von Braun A(1), Furrer H(2), Battegay M(3), Calmy A(4), Cavassini M(5), Vernazza 
P(6), Bernasconi E(7), Weber R(1), Günthard HF(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Infektionskrankheiten und Spitalhygiene, Universitätsspital Zürich 
(USZ), Universität Zürich.
(2)Universitätsklinik für Infektiologie, Inselspital Bern.
(3)Klinik für Infektiologie und Spitalhygiene, Universitätsspital Basel.
(4)Klinik für Infektiologie und Spitalhygiene, Universitätsspital Genf (HUG).
(5)Klinik für Infektiologie und Spitalhygiene, Universitätsspital Lausanne 
(CHUV).
(6)Fachbereich Infektiologie, Kantonsspital St. Gallen.
(7)Abteilung für Infektionskrankheiten, Ospedale Regionale di Lugano.

Antiretroviral therapy to treat HIV, as we know it today, is nothing less than a 
huge success story in modern medical history. What used to be an almost certain 
death-sentence was transformed into a very manageable chronic disease by means 
of highly efficient und mostly well tolerated drugs. Today, HIV-infected 
patients treated according to international recommendations have a very good 
chance to outgo the negative effects of HIV-1 and are therefore able to reach an 
almost normal life expectancy. Furthermore, patients successfully treated with 
antiretroviral drugs are no longer infectious, which is an essential aspect of 
global strategies to overcome the pandemic. Nevertheless, due to the complexity 
of HIV, physicians treating patients with antiretroviral therapy require 
profound knowledge of aspects such as viral resistance mechanisms and immune 
reconstitution, as well as drug-toxicity und drug-drug-interactions. Many other 
aspects such as long-term side-effects of antiretroviral drugs are still 
unknown. Strict adherence to treatment is of utmost importance.

Publisher: Der Erfolg der antiretroviralen Therapie gegen HIV-1 ist einzigartig 
in der modernen Medizingeschichte. Eine zuvor fast 100 % letale Erkrankung 
konnte in eine chronisch behandelbare Krankheit umgewandelt werden. Wird heute 
gemäß internationaler Empfehlungen früh mit einer antiretroviralen Therapie 
begonnen, können die negativen Effekte des HIV-1 Virus auf den menschlichen 
Organismus minimiert werden. Dies führt bei sonst gesunden HIV-infizierten 
Menschen zu einer nahezu normalen Lebenserwartung. Zusätzlich sind Patienten 
unter erfolgreicher Therapie nicht mehr infektiös, was für die Eindämmung der 
Pandemie von entscheidender Bedeutung ist. Die antiretrovirale Therapie ist 
jedoch nach wie vor komplex. Viele Aspekte, insbesondere die langfristigen 
Nebenwirkungen und Medikamenteninteraktionen betreffend, sind noch offen. 
Behandelnde Ärzte benötigen sehr gute Kenntnisse im Bereich der HIV-Resistenz, 
der Immunrekonstitution sowie der Medikamententoxizität und Interaktionen. Von 
absoluter Wichtigkeit ist die Therapieadhärenz.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000538
PMID: 25093310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Ther Umsch. 2014 Aug;71(8):483-9. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000541.

[HIV-associated non-AIDS conditions].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Hasse B(1), Bernasconi E(2), Furrer H(3), Eyer MM(3), Kovari H(1).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Infektionskrankheiten und Spitalhygiene, Universität und 
Universitätsspital Zürich.
(2)Ospedale Regionale Lugano.
(3)Universitätsklinik für Infektiologie, Inselspital und Universität Bern.

Antiretroviral therapy (ART) has improved quality of life and increased life 
expectancy of HIV-infected individuals. Opportunistic diseases are less common, 
and mortality has declined. Consequently, patterns of mortality and morbidity 
are changing among the HIV-positive population. The focus of care has shifted to 
ART-related problems and to various non-AIDS diseases. Such comorbidities, often 
occurring sequentially or concurrently, may be the consequences of long term ART 
toxicity, a state of chronic inflammation due to HIV infection, 
lifestyle-related risks for disease, and aging. The emergence of non-AIDS 
related conditions highlights the important role of primary care physicians, 
especially of those with extensive experience in HIV management.

Publisher: Dank der antiretroviralen Therapie hat die Lebenserwartung 
HIV-positiver Personen deutlich zugenommen. Während bei behandelten 
HIV-Infizierten opportunistische Erkrankungen nur noch selten gesehen werden, 
rücken altersbezogene Komorbiditäten mit vorzeitigem Auftreten in den 
Vordergrund. Als Ursache werden die HIV-Infektion selber, Nebenwirkungen der 
antiretroviralen Therapie, Begleiterkrankungen (z. B. chronische Hepatitis C 
Virus-Infektion) und erhöhte Prävalenz traditioneller Risikofaktoren (wie 
Nikotinkonsum) diskutiert. In der Langzeitbetreuung HIV-positiver Patienten ist 
die Rolle der Hausärzte sowie der Fachspezialisten von zunehmender Bedeutung.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000541
PMID: 25093313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 5;9(8):e104327. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104327. 
eCollection 2014.

Effects of fluoridated milk on root dentin remineralization.

Arnold WH(1), Heidt BA(1), Kuntz S(1), Naumova EA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological and Material Sciences in Dentistry, School of 
Dentistry, Faculty of Health, University of Witten/Herdecke, Witten, Germany.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2014;9(9):e108199.

BACKGROUND: The prevalence of root caries is increasing with greater life 
expectancy and number of retained teeth. Therefore, new preventive strategies 
should be developed to reduce the prevalence of root caries. The aim of this 
study was to investigate the effects of fluoridated milk on the remineralization 
of root dentin and to compare these effects to those of sodium fluoride (NaF) 
application without milk.
METHODS: Thirty extracted human molars were divided into 6 groups, and the root 
cementum was removed from each tooth. The dentin surface was demineralized and 
then incubated with one of the following six solutions: Sodium chloride NaCl, 
artificial saliva, milk, milk+2.5 ppm fluoride, milk+10 ppm fluoride and 
artificial saliva+10 ppm fluoride. Serial sections were cut through the lesions 
and investigated with polarized light microscopy and quantitative morphometry, 
scanning electron microscopy (SEM) and energy-dispersive X-ray spectroscopy 
(EDS). The data were statistically evaluated using a one-way ANOVA for multiple 
comparisons.
RESULTS: The depth of the lesion decreased with increasing fluoride 
concentration and was the smallest after incubation with artificial saliva+10 
ppm fluoride. SEM analysis revealed a clearly demarcated superficial 
remineralized zone after incubation with milk+2.5 ppm fluoride, milk+10 ppm 
fluoride and artificial saliva+10 ppm fluoride. Ca content in this zone 
increased with increasing fluoride content and was highest after artificial 
saliva+10 ppm fluoride incubation. In the artificial saliva+10 ppm fluoride 
group, an additional crystalline layer was present on top of the lesion that 
contained elevated levels of F and Ca.
CONCLUSION: Incubation of root dentin with fluoridated milk showed a clear 
effect on root dentin remineralization, and incubation with NaF dissolved in 
artificial saliva demonstrated a stronger effect.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104327
PMCID: PMC4122458
PMID: 25093506 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


962. Vital Health Stat 2. 2008 May;(146):1-24.

Estimating healthy life expectancies using longitudinal survey data: methods and 
techniques in population health measures.

Molla MT, Madans JH.

Objective-Summary measures of population health are statistics that combine 
mortality and morbidity to represent overall population health in a single 
index. Such measures include healthy life expectancy, also called 
disability-free life expectancy and active life expectancy. Healthy life 
expectancy can be calculated using cross-sectional or longitudinal survey data. 
This report presents a comprehensive discussion of a method for calculating 
healthy life expectancy using data from longitudinal surveys. Methods-Healthy 
life expectancies are calculated using the multistate life table model. Expected 
life in various states of health is estimated using data from the Second 
Longitudinal Study of Aging and the Medicare Current Beneficiary Survey to 
illustrate the calculation of the statistics and the discussion of data and 
methodology related issues. Results-The study shows that estimating summary 
measures of population health using longitudinal survey data provides the 
opportunity of using incidence rather than prevalence rates. Health measures 
estimated based on incidence reflect the most recent health status of the 
population. Models that use longitudinal survey data measure transitions from 
good to poor health as well as poor to good health. That is, the models account 
for recovery from morbidity or illness. Longitudinal survey data 
canalsobeusedtocalculate healthy or active life expectancies by initial health 
states.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 25093608


963. Vital Health Stat 2. 2010 May;(151):1-21.

Education reporting and classification on death certificates in the United 
States.

Rostron BL, Boies JL, Arias E.

Objectives-This report analyzes education reporting and classification on the 
death certificate and their effect on estimates of mortality and life expectancy 
by education level in the United States. Methods-The National Longitudinal 
Mortality Study (NLMS) was used to analyze education information on the death 
certificate for participants in the Current Population Survey (CPS) from 1992 
through 1998 who died by the end of 1998. Educational attainment reported on the 
death certificate for these persons was compared to their educational attainment 
reported in the CPS. NLMS wasalsousedtocalculate classification ratios 
consisting of the number of deaths by education level in the CPS compared to the 
number of deaths by education level on the death certificate. These 
classification ratios were then used to produce estimates of life expectancy by 
education level for the United States in 2005, adjusted for probable education 
misreporting on the death certificate. Results-Comparison of educational 
attainment from the death certificate and CPS shows differences due to the 
different classification systems used in the two sources and probable 
misreporting on the death certificate. The difference is most pronounced 
regarding graduation from high school. Black and Hispanic persons at the high 
school graduate level appear to be more likely than other racial or ethnic 
groups to have their educational attainment underreported on the death 
certificate as less than 4 years of high school completed. Adjusted estimates 
for the U.S. population show a large disparity in life expectancy by education 
level, on the order of 10-12 years for females and 11-16 years for males.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 25093685


964. Radiology. 2014 Dec;273(3):686-94. doi: 10.1148/radiol.14140209. Epub 2014
Aug  5.

Improved prognosis of women aged 75 and older with mammography-detected breast 
cancer.

Malmgren JA(1), Parikh J, Atwood MK, Kaplan HG.

Author information:
(1)From HealthStat Consulting, 12025 9th Ave NW, Seattle, WA 98177 (J.A.M.); 
School of Public Health,Department of Epidemiology, University of Washington, 
Seattle, Wash (J.A.M.); and Swedish Cancer Institute at Swedish Medical Center, 
Seattle, Wash (J.P., M.K.A., H.G.K.).

Comment in
    Strahlenther Onkol. 2016 Feb;192(2):130-2.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the characteristics and outcomes of women aged 75 years and 
older with mammography-detected breast cancer, an age group not represented in 
mammography screening effectiveness studies.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted a HIPAA-compliant, prospective cohort study 
with waiver of informed consent in patients with primary breast cancer, aged 75 
years and older, with stage 0-IV disease from 1990 to 2011, identified and 
tracked with our registry database (n = 1162). Details including stage, 
treatment, outcomes, and method of detection (by patient, physician, or 
mammography) were noted from the chart at the time of diagnosis. Kaplan-Meier 
estimation was used to compare invasive disease-specific survival rates.
RESULTS: Among patients with breast cancer aged 75 years and older, mammography 
detection of cancers increased over time, from 49% to 70% (P < .001). 
Mammography-detected cases were more often stage I (62%), whereas patient- and 
physician-detected cases were more likely stage II and III (59%). Over time, 
from 1990 to 2011, the incidence of stage II cancers decreased by 8%, the 
incidence of stage III cancers decreased by 8%, and the incidence of stage 0 
cancers increased by 15% (P < .001). Patients with mammography-detected invasive 
breast cancer were more often treated with lumpectomy and radiation and 
underwent fewer mastectomies and less chemotherapy than patients with cancer 
detected by patients and physicians (P < .001). Mammography detection was 
associated with significantly better 5-year disease-specific survival for 
invasive breast cancer (97% vs 87% for patient- and physician-detected cancer [P 
< .001], respectively).
CONCLUSION: Mammography-detected breast cancer in women 75 years and older was 
diagnosed at an earlier stage, required less treatment, and had better 
disease-specific survival than patient- or physician-detected breast cancer. 
These findings indicate that the same benefits of mammography detection observed 
in younger women extend to older women.

© RSNA, 2014 Online supplemental material is available for this article.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.14140209
PMID: 25093690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Int J Mol Sci. 2014 Aug 4;15(8):13529-49. doi: 10.3390/ijms150813529.

Cystic fibrosis related liver disease--another black box in hepatology.

Staufer K(1), Halilbasic E(2), Trauner M(3), Kazemi-Shirazi L(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Transplantation, Department of Surgery, Medical University of 
Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, Austria. 
Katharina.Staufer@meduniwien.ac.at.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine 
III, Medical University of Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, 
Austria. Emina.Halilbasic@meduniwien.ac.at.
(3)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine 
III, Medical University of Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, 
Austria. Michael.Trauner@meduniwien.ac.at.
(4)Division of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Department of Internal Medicine 
III, Medical University of Vienna, Währinger Gürtel 18-20, A-1090 Vienna, 
Austria. Lili.Kazemi-Shirazi@meduniwien.ac.at.

Due to improved medical care, life expectancy in patients with cystic fibrosis 
(CF) has veritably improved over the last decades. Importantly, cystic fibrosis 
related liver disease (CFLD) has become one of the leading causes of morbidity 
and mortality in CF patients. However, CFLD might be largely underdiagnosed and 
diagnostic criteria need to be refined. The underlying pathomechanisms are 
largely unknown, and treatment strategies with proven efficacy are lacking. This 
review focuses on current invasive and non-invasive diagnostic standards, the 
current knowledge on the pathophysiology of CFLD, treatment strategies, and 
possible future developments.

DOI: 10.3390/ijms150813529
PMCID: PMC4159809
PMID: 25093717 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 5;9(8):e103936. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103936. 
eCollection 2014.

Conformational dynamics of Escherichia coli flavodoxins in apo- and holo-states 
by solution NMR spectroscopy.

Ye Q(1), Hu Y(2), Jin C(3).

Author information:
(1)Beijing Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Center, Peking University, Beijing, China; 
College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China.
(2)Beijing Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Center, Peking University, Beijing, China; 
College of Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, 
China.
(3)Beijing Nuclear Magnetic Resonance Center, Peking University, Beijing, China; 
College of Life Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China; College of 
Chemistry and Molecular Engineering, Peking University, Beijing, China; Beijing 
National Laboratory for Molecular Sciences, Peking University, Beijing, China.

Flavodoxins are a family of small FMN-binding proteins that commonly exist in 
prokaryotes. They utilize a non-covalently bound FMN molecule to act as the 
redox center during the electron transfer processes in various important 
biological pathways. Although extensive investigations were performed, detailed 
molecular mechanisms of cofactor binding and electron transfer remain elusive. 
Herein we report the solution NMR studies on Escherichia coli flavodoxins FldA 
and YqcA, belonging to the long-chain and short-chain flavodoxin subfamilies 
respectively. Our structural studies demonstrate that both proteins show the 
typical flavodoxin fold, with extensive conformational exchanges observed near 
the FMN binding pocket in their apo-forms. Cofactor binding significantly 
stabilizes both proteins as revealed by the extension of secondary structures in 
the holo-forms, and the overall rigidity shown by the backbone dynamics data. 
However, the 50 s loops of both proteins in the holo-form still show 
conformational exchanges on the µs-ms timescales, which appears to be a common 
feature in the flavodoxin family, and might play an important role in structural 
fine-tuning during the electron transfer reactions.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103936
PMCID: PMC4122359
PMID: 25093851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


967. Mol Genet Metab. 2015 Feb;114(2):226-32. doi: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2014.07.004.
Epub  2014 Jul 15.

Health economic evaluation of plasma oxysterol screening in the diagnosis of 
Niemann-Pick Type C disease among intellectually disabled using discrete event 
simulation.

van Karnebeek CD(1), Mohammadi T(2), Tsao N(3), Sinclair G(4), Sirrs S(5), 
Stockler S(6), Marra C(7).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biochemical Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, B.C. Children's 
Hospital, Canada; Treatable Intellectual Disability Endeavour in British 
Columbia(1), Canada; Child and Family Research Institute, Centre for Molecular 
Medicine & Therapeutics, Canada; University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
Canada. Electronic address: cvankarnebeek@cw.bc.ca.
(2)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada; Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. Electronic address: 
timamoh@mail.ubc.ca.
(3)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada; Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. Electronic address: 
nicole_t@mail.ubc.ca.
(4)Treatable Intellectual Disability Endeavour in British Columbia(1), Canada; 
University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada; Department of Pathology & 
Laboratory Medicine, BC Children's & Women's Hospital, Canada. Electronic 
address: gsinclair@cw.bc.ca.
(5)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada; Adult Metabolic Diseases 
Clinic, Vancouver General Hospital, Canada. Electronic address: 
sandra.sirrs@vch.ca.
(6)Division of Biochemical Diseases, Department of Pediatrics, B.C. Children's 
Hospital, Canada; Treatable Intellectual Disability Endeavour in British 
Columbia(1), Canada; University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. 
Electronic address: sstockler@cw.bc.ca.
(7)University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada; Faculty of Pharmaceutical 
Sciences, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, Canada. Electronic address: 
carlo.marra@ubc.ca.

BACKGROUND: Recently a less invasive method of screening and diagnosing 
Niemann-Pick C (NP-C) disease has emerged. This approach involves the use of a 
metabolic screening test (oxysterol assay) instead of the current practice of 
clinical assessment of patients suspected of NP-C (review of medical history, 
family history and clinical examination for the signs and symptoms). Our 
objective is to compare costs and outcomes of plasma oxysterol screening versus 
current practice in diagnosis of NP-C disease among intellectually disabled (ID) 
patients using decision-analytic methods.
METHODS: A discrete event simulation model was conducted to follow ID patients 
through the diagnosis and treatment of NP-C, forecast the costs and 
effectiveness for a cohort of ID patients and compare the outcomes and costs in 
two different arms of the model: plasma oxysterol screening and routine 
diagnosis procedure (anno 2013) over 5 years of follow up. Data from published 
sources and clinical trials were used in simulation model. Unit costs and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) were discounted at a 3% annual rate in the 
base case analysis. Deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were 
conducted.
RESULTS: The outcomes of the base case model showed that using plasma oxysterol 
screening for diagnosis of NP-C disease among ID patients is a dominant 
strategy. It would result in lower total cost and would slightly improve 
patients' quality of life. The average amount of cost saving was $3642 CAD and 
the incremental QALYs per each individual ID patient in oxysterol screening arm 
versus current practice of diagnosis NP-C was 0.0022 QALYs. Results of 
sensitivity analysis demonstrated robustness of the outcomes over the wide range 
of changes in model inputs.
CONCLUSION: Whilst acknowledging the limitations of this study, we conclude that 
screening ID children and adolescents with oxysterol tests compared to current 
practice for the diagnosis of NP-C is a dominant strategy with clinical and 
economic benefits. The less costly, more sensitive and specific oxysterol test 
has potential to save costs to the healthcare system while improving patients' 
quality of life and may be considered as a routine tool in the NP-C diagnosis 
armamentarium for ID. Further research is needed to elucidate its effectiveness 
in patients presenting characteristics other than ID in childhood and 
adolescence.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ymgme.2014.07.004
PMID: 25095726 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


968. BMJ Open. 2014 Aug 5;4(8):e005386. doi: 10.1136/bmjopen-2014-005386.

Age and sex patterns of premature mortality in India.

Dubey M(1), Mohanty SK(2).

Author information:
(1)International Institute for Population Sciences, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.
(2)Department of Fertility Studies, International Institute for Population 
Sciences, Mumbai, Maharashtra, India.

OBJECTIVES: To estimate premature mortality by age, sex and cause of death in 
India.
BACKGROUND: Studies on premature mortality in India are limited. Although 
evidence suggests recent reductions in infant and child mortality, little is 
known about the age and sex patterns of premature deaths in India.
METHODS: Secondary data from the Sample Registration System and, census of India 
and report on cause of death. A set of indices are used to estimate the 
premature mortality were analysed.
PRIMARY AND SECONDARY OUTCOME MEASURES: Standardised years of potential life 
lost (YPLL), premature years of potential life lost (PYPLL) and working years of 
potential life lost (WYPLL) for broad age groups and by selected causes of 
death.
RESULTS: From 1991 to 2011, the age-standardised rate of YPLL (per 1000 
population) declined from 310 to 235 for males and from 307 to 206 for females. 
The estimated YPLL (in millions) declined from 134 to 147 for males and from 123 
to 108 for females, the YPLL for adults (aged 15-65) increased by 32% for males 
and 28% for females, the standardised PYPLL (per 1000 population) declined from 
259 to 137 for males and from 258 to 115 for females, the estimated PYPLL 
increased by 13% for all adult males and by 32% for 30-45-year-old adult males, 
and the standardised rate of WYPLL declined from 274 to 131 for males and from 
295 to 91 for females. These findings suggest a significant improvement in early 
childhood mortality and increasing mortality trends in 30-45-year-old adult 
males. The YPLL and WYPLL standardised rates for males and females were highest 
for cardiovascular disease.
CONCLUSIONS: The increasing share of premature deaths among adults and high 
levels of premature mortality suggest an improvement in child survival increased 
attention should be given to prevention and treatment of non-communicable 
diseases in order to avoid premature deaths in India.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/bmjopen-2014-005386
PMCID: PMC4127933
PMID: 25095877 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2014;158:A7745.

[Adults with an inherited metabolic disorder: a rapidly growing population with 
unique challenges].

[Article in Dutch]

Werkgroep INVEST.

Collaborators: Brouwers MC, Linthorst GE, Karstens FP, Rennings A, Alkemade G, 
Meersseman W, Cassiman D, Thijs A, Wolffenbuttel BH, Hollak CE, Janssen MC, 
Langendonk JG.

Inherited metabolic disorders consist of a diverse group of more than 800 rare 
disorders. Metabolic disorders used to be principally the clinical domain of 
paediatricians, because of their inherited character and the frequently limited 
life expectancy. Not all metabolic disorders are revealed during childhood; a 
significant proportion will first appear in adulthood. The number of adult 
patients with an inherited metabolic disorder is increasing due to improved 
clinical care and extended diagnostic modalities. This increase means that more 
medical specialties will be confronted with this patient population. Adult 
clinical care has its own specific challenges, such as the care of patients with 
an inherited metabolic disorder during pregnancy. Prolonged fasting, for 
instance around a surgical procedure, can lead to life-threatening metabolic 
disruption, especially when the appropriate precautions have not been taken. The 
INVEST group is an initiative founded by Dutch and Belgian internists with the 
purpose of improving the care of adults patients with a metabolic disorder.

PMID: 25096043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


970. Eur J Public Health. 2015 Feb;25(1):20-5. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cku119. Epub
2014  Aug 5.

Cost-effectiveness of vitamin D and calcium supplementation in the treatment of 
elderly women and men with osteoporosis.

Hiligsmann M(1), Ben Sedrine W(2), Bruyère O(2), Evers SM(3), Rabenda V(2), 
Reginster JY(2).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Health Services Research, CAPHRI School for Primary Care and 
Public Health, Maastricht University, The Netherlands 
m.hiligsmann@maastrichtuniversity.nl.
(2)2 Department of Public Health, Epidemiology and Health Economics, University 
of Liège, Liège, Belgium.
(3)1 Department of Health Services Research, CAPHRI School for Primary Care and 
Public Health, Maastricht University, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: The supplementation with vitamin D and calcium has been recommended 
for elderly, specifically those with increased risk of fractures older than 65 
years. This study aims to assess the cost-effectiveness of vitamin D and calcium 
supplementation in elderly women and men with osteoporosis and therefore to 
assess if this recommendation is justified in terms of cost-effectiveness.
METHODS: A validated model for economic evaluations in osteoporosis was used to 
estimate the cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained of vitamin 
D/calcium supplementation compared with no treatment. The model was populated 
with cost and epidemiological data from a Belgian health-care perspective. 
Analyses were conducted in women and men with a diagnosis of osteoporosis (i.e. 
bone mineral density T-score ≤-2.5). A literature search was conducted to 
describe the efficacy of vitamin D and calcium in terms of fracture risk 
reduction.
RESULTS: The cost per QALY gained of vitamin D/calcium supplementation was 
estimated at €40 578 and €23 477 in women and men aged 60 years, respectively. 
These values decreased to €7912 and €10 250 at the age of 70 years and vitamin D 
and calcium supplementation was cost-saving at the age of 80 years, meaning that 
treatment cost was less than the costs of treating osteoporotic fractures of the 
no-treatment group.
CONCLUSION: This study suggests that vitamin D and calcium supplementation is 
cost-effective for women and men with osteoporosis aged over 60 years. From an 
economic perspective, vitamin D and calcium should therefore be administrated in 
these populations including those also taking other osteoporotic treatments.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cku119
PMID: 25096255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Tidsskr Nor Laegeforen. 2014 Aug 5;134(14):1361-4. doi:
10.4045/tidsskr.13.0836.  eCollection 2014 Aug 5.

Duchenne muscular dystrophy.

[Article in English, Norwegian]

Annexstad EJ(1), Lund-Petersen I(2), Rasmussen M(3).

Author information:
(1)Kompetansesenter for medfødte muskelsykdommer Oslo universitetssykehus og 
Barneavdelingen Sykehuset Østfold Fredrikstad.
(2)Kompetansesenter for medfødte muskelsykdommer Oslo universitetssykehus.
(3)Barneavdeling for nevrofag og Kompetansesenter for medfødte muskelsykdommer 
Oslo universitetssykehus.

BACKGROUND: Duchenne muscular dystrophy is one of the most severe muscle 
diseases to affect children. In the last twenty years, treatments have been 
established that have significantly improved patients' quality of life and life 
expectancy. The purpose of this article is to outline the main features of the 
disease and its treatment, and to examine possible future treatment options.
METHOD: The article is based on a literature search in PubMed, current 
international guidelines and our own clinical experience.
RESULTS: Close monitoring by an interdisciplinary rehabilitation team forms the 
basis of treatment. Treatment with glucocorticoids can slow disease progression 
and improve motor function in the short term. The treatment may cause side 
effects, which must be monitored and which may require intervention. A not 
insignificant proportion of patients have cognitive and neuropsychiatric 
problems that must be addressed. Active intervention in response to signs of 
respiratory or cardiac failure is important. More causal treatment of Duchenne 
muscular dystrophy is under testing and offers cautious hope for future 
patients.
INTERPRETATION: With improved treatment and increased life expectancy come new 
challenges for patients with Duchenne muscular dystrophy and their families, as 
well as new demands on the support services. This patient group requires close 
and comprehensive follow-up, also in the transition from child to adult.

DOI: 10.4045/tidsskr.13.0836
PMID: 25096430 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Disabil Health J. 2014 Oct;7(4):472-7. doi: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2014.06.005. Epub
 2014 Jul 1.

Stroke and active life expectancy in the United States, 1999-2009.

Laditka JN(1), Laditka SB(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of North Carolina at 
Charlotte, 9201 University City Boulevard, Charlotte, NC 28223, USA.
(2)Department of Public Health Sciences, University of North Carolina at 
Charlotte, 9201 University City Boulevard, Charlotte, NC 28223, USA. Electronic 
address: sladitka@uncc.edu.

BACKGROUND: Stroke reduces active life expectancy, both years lived and their 
proportion without disability. However, active life expectancy studies have 
provided limited information about strokes in the United States, those occurring 
throughout older life, or those affecting African Americans.
OBJECTIVE: To measure associations between strokes throughout older life and 
active life expectancy for African American and White women and men.
METHODS: Using data from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics, 1999-2009 (n = 
1862, 13,603 person-years), we estimated monthly probabilities of death and 
disability in activities of daily living with multinomial logistic Markov models 
adjusted for age, sex, ethnicity, stroke in the past two years, earlier stroke, 
and education. A random effect accounted for the panel data repeated measures. 
Microsimulation created large populations with stroke incidence throughout older 
life, identifying life expectancy and the proportions of remaining life with and 
without disability. We matched individuals with strokes with randomly selected 
persons without strokes by age at first stroke, sex, ethnicity, and previous 
disability.
RESULTS: Average age at first stroke was higher for women, lower for African 
Americans. African American and White women were disabled for about two-thirds 
of life after stroke; results for men were 61.8% for African Americans and 37.2% 
for Whites. Compared to matched participants, those with strokes lived 33% fewer 
remaining years (95% confidence interval, CI 30.9%-34.7%) with a 31.6% greater 
proportion of remaining life with disability (CI 14.4%-55.6%).
CONCLUSIONS: Stroke greatly reduces both life expectancy and the proportion of 
life without disability, particularly for women and African Americans.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.dhjo.2014.06.005
PMID: 25096630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Lifetime Data Anal. 2015 Jan;21(1):1-19. doi: 10.1007/s10985-014-9306-8.
Epub  2014 Aug 6.

Ornstein-Uhlenbeck threshold regression for time-to-event data with and without 
a cure fraction.

Erich R(1), Pennell ML.

Author information:
(1)U.S. Air Force Institute of Technology, Wright-Patterson Air Force Base, OH, 
45433, USA.

In this paper we propose a threshold regression (TR) model for time to event 
data related to subject health using a latent Ornstein-Uhlenbeck (OU) process 
that fails once it hits a boundary value for the first time. Baseline covariates 
are incorporated into the analysis using a log-link function for the initial 
state of the health process. The model provides clinically meaningful covariate 
effects and does not require the proportional hazards assumption of the commonly 
used Cox model. Unlike TR models based on the Wiener process, the OU model 
allows increments in the health process to depend on previous values and drifts 
toward a state of equilibrium or homeostasis, which are present in many 
biological applications. We also extend our model to incorporate a cure rate for 
applications with improper survival functions, such as time to tumor recurrence 
in a cancer clinical trial. Our models are applied to overall and relapse-free 
survival data of melanoma patients undergoing definitive surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s10985-014-9306-8
PMID: 25097158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Int J Epidemiol. 2014 Aug;43(4):983-8. doi: 10.1093/ije/dyu120.

Is life expectancy really falling for groups of low socio-economic status? 
Lagged selection bias and artefactual trends in mortality.

Dowd JB(1), Hamoudi A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, CUNY School of Public Health, 
Hunter College, 10010 NY, USA. E-mail: jdowd@hunter.cuny.edu, and.
(2)Sanford School of Public Policy, Duke University, Durham, NC, USA.

DOI: 10.1093/ije/dyu120
PMID: 25097224 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Prz Gastroenterol. 2014;9(3):136-41. doi: 10.5114/pg.2014.43574. Epub 2014
Jun  26.

Liver disease in cystic fibrosis.

Kobelska-Dubiel N(1), Klincewicz B(1), Cichy W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Paediatric Gastroenterology and Metabolic Diseases, Poznan 
University of Medical Sciences, Poland.

Cystic fibrosis-associated liver disease (CFLD) affects ca. 30% of patients. The 
CFLD is now considered the third cause of death, after lung disease and 
transplantation complications, in CF patients. Diagnostics, clinical assessment 
and treatment of CFLD have become a real challenge since a striking increase of 
life expectancy in CF patients has recently been observed. There is no 
elaborated "gold standard" in the diagnostic process of CFLD; clinical 
evaluation, laboratory tests, ultrasonography and liver biopsy are used. 
Clinical forms of CFLD are elevation of serum liver enzymes, hepatic steatosis, 
focal biliary cirrhosis, multilobular biliary cirrhosis, neonatal cholestasis, 
cholelithiasis, cholecystitis and micro-gallbladder. In children, CFLD symptoms 
mostly occur in puberty. Clinical symptoms appear late, when damage of the 
hepatobiliary system is already advanced. The CFLD is more common in patients 
with severe mutations of CFTR gene, in whom a complete loss of CFTR protein 
function is observed. CFLD, together with exocrine pancreatic insufficiency and 
meconium ileus, is considered a component of the severe CF phenotype. Treatment 
of CFLD should be complex and conducted by a multispecialist team 
(gastroenterologist, hepatologist, dietician, radiologist, surgeon). The main 
aim of the treatment is to prevent liver damage and complications associated 
with portal hypertension and liver cirrhosis. Ursodeoxycholic acid is used in 
the treatment of CFLD. There is no treatment of proven long-term efficacy in 
CFLD. Liver transplantation is a treatment of choice in end-stage liver disease.

DOI: 10.5114/pg.2014.43574
PMCID: PMC4110359
PMID: 25097709


976. Vestn Oftalmol. 2014 May-Jun;130(3):42-4.

[Retinal detachment in HIV-infected patients with cytomegalovirus retinitis].

[Article in Russian]

Onishchenko AL, Kolbasko AV, Tatarnikova GN, Grebenchuk OS.

The authors present their own clinical experience in three HIV-infected patients 
with cytomegalovirus retinitis aged from 8 to 36 years. Detailed analysis of the 
results of physical and laboratory examinations is provided. Given short life 
expectancy for these patients, the authors pose a deontological question as to 
whether or not active treatment of retinal detachment in patients with AIDS and 
CMV retinitis is reasonable.

PMID: 25098121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2014;61(6):286-98.

[A 10-year community intervention for disability prevention and changes in 
physical, nutritional, psychological and social functions among 
community-dwelling older adults in Kusatsu, Gunma Prefecture, Japan].

[Article in Japanese]

Seino S(1), Taniguchi Y, Yoshida H, Fujiwara Y, Amano H, Fukaya T, Nishi M, 
Murayama H, Nofuji Y, Matsuo E, Hoshikawa N, Tsuchiya Y, Shinkai S.

Author information:
(1)Research Team for Social Participation and Community Health, Tokyo 
Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology.

OBJECTIVES: We reported previously that a 10-year community intervention for 
disability prevention successfully extended healthy life expectancy at 70 years 
and decreased the enrollment rate of the Long-Term Care Insurance in Kusatsu, 
Gunma Prefecture, Japan. In order to clarify functional factors that contributed 
