∼2.9 years greater than that for males at 44.4 years. HLE for non-Hispanic white 
adults was 2.6 years greater than that for Hispanic adults and 7.8 years greater 
than that for non-Hispanic black adults. By region, the Northeast had the 
longest HLE and the South had the shortest.
CONCLUSIONS: The HLE estimates in this report can be used to monitor trends in 
the health of populations, compare estimates across populations and identify 
health inequalities that require attention.

Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Faculty of Public Health 2014. 
This work is written by (a) US Government employee(s) and is in the public 
domain in the US.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdu059
PMID: 25174043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


201. Zhong Yao Cai. 2014 Mar;37(3):379-83.

[Study on artificial compound feed for Buthus martensii].

[Article in Chinese]

Xu SC, Shen XJ, Wang Q, Han XK.

OBJECTIVE: To solve the problem that the single feed causing malnutrition, 
extension of the life cycle and low survival rates of Buthus martensii.
METHODS: By using Minitab (R) 15.1.1.0.0., 7 different kinds of compound feed 
were designed, including minced meat mud (pork,chicken and rabbit), bran (fried 
yellow), sugar, milk, vegetable paste and multivitamin as raw material.
RESULTS: Different proportions of compound feed that taking the yellow mealworm 
as main component had a significant effect on the growth, mortality and birth 
number of Buthus martensii. Compound feed 5 significantly reduced mortality of 
youth scorpion. The compound feed 4 was the best in improving the weight of 
scorpion larvae and youth scorpion, and the farrowing number of mother scorpion. 
Other indicators were also good. Proportions in meatmud (pork, chicken and 
rabbit), bran (fried yellow), sugar, milk, vegetable paste and multivitamin was 
30.00%, 25.00%, 20.08%, 15.58%, 8.08% and 1.25%, respectively.
CONCLUSION: The growth of Buthus martensii is significantly influenced by the 
type of feed. In the production of compound feed, the yellow mealworm with 
compound feed 4 can be popularized.

PMID: 25174098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


202. Malar J. 2014 Sep 1;13:344. doi: 10.1186/1475-2875-13-344.

Monitoring long-lasting insecticidal net (LLIN) durability to validate net 
serviceable life assumptions, in Rwanda.

Hakizimana E, Cyubahiro B, Rukundo A, Kabayiza A, Mutabazi A, Beach R(1), Patel 
R, Tongren JE, Karema C.

Author information:
(1)Entomology Branch, Division of Parasitic Diseases and Malaria, Center for 
Global Health, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA, USA. 
rfb1@cdc.gov.

BACKGROUND: To validate assumptions about the length of the 
distribution-replacement cycle for long-lasting insecticidal nets (LLINs) in 
Rwanda, the Malaria and other Parasitic Diseases Division, Rwanda Ministry of 
Health, used World Health Organization methods to independently confirm the 
three-year LLIN serviceable life span recommendation of WHO.
METHODS: Approximately 3,000 coded LLINs, distributed as part of a national 
campaign, were monitored in six sites, by means of six-monthly visits to 
selected houses. Two indicators, survivorship/attrition, a measure of the number 
of nets remaining, and fabric integrity, the proportion of remaining nets in 
either 'good', 'serviceable' or 'needs replacement' condition, based on holes in 
the net material, were tracked. To validate the assumption that the intervention 
would remain effective for three years, LLIN coverage, calculated using either 
survivorship, or integrity, by removing nets in the 'needs replacement' category 
from the survivorship total, was compared with the predicted proportion of nets 
remaining, derived from a net loss model, that assumes an LLIN serviceable life 
of three years.
RESULTS: After two years, there was close agreement between estimated LLIN 
survivorship at all sites, 75% (range 64-84%), and the predicted proportion of 
nets remaining, 75%. However, when integrity was considered, observed 
survivorship at all sites, declined to 42% (range 10-54%).
CONCLUSIONS: More than half, 58%, of the LLINs fell into the 'needs replacement' 
category after two years. While these nets were counted for survivorship, they 
were judged to be of little-to-no benefit to a user. Therefore, when integrity 
was taken into account, survivorship was significantly lower than predicted, 
suggesting that net serviceable life was actually closer to two, rather than 
three years, and, by extension, that the impact of the intervention during year 
three of the LLIN distribution-replacement cycle could be well below that seen 
in years one and two.

DOI: 10.1186/1475-2875-13-344
PMCID: PMC4161833
PMID: 25174414 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


203. Afr J AIDS Res. 2014;13(1):13-20. doi: 10.2989/16085906.2014.886605.

Youth mortality due to HIV/AIDS in South Africa, 2001-2009: an analysis of the 
levels of mortality using life table techniques.

De Wet N(1), Oluwaseyi S, Odimegwu C.

Author information:
(1)a Demography and Population Studies , University of the Witwatersrand , 1 Jan 
Smuts Avenue, Braamfontein , Johannesburg , Gauteng 2050 , South Africa.

South Africa has one of the highest HIV/AIDS prevalence rates in the world. It 
is estimated that 5.38 million South Africans are living with HIV/AIDS. In 
addition, new infections among adults aged 15+ were reportedly 316 900 in 2011. 
New infections among children (0-14 years old) was also high in 2011 at 63 600. 
This paper examines South Africa's mortality due to HIV/AIDS among the youth 
(15-34 years old). This age group is of fundamental importance to the economic 
and social development of the country. However, the challenges of youth 
development remain vast and incomparable. One of these challenges is the impact 
of HIV/AIDS on mortality. Life table techniques are used to estimate among 
others, sex differentials in death rates for the youth population, probability 
of dying from HIV/AIDS before the age of 35 and life expectancy should HIV/AIDS 
be eradicated from the population. The study used data from the National 
Registry of Deaths, as collated by Statistics South Africa from 2001 to 2009. 
Results show that youth mortality due to HIV/AIDS has remained consistently 
higher among older youths than in younger ones. By sex, mortality due to this 
cause has also remained consistent over the period, with mortality due to 
HIV/AIDS being higher among females than males. Cause-specific mortality rates 
and proportional mortality ratios reflect the increased mortality of older youth 
(especially 30-34 years old) and females within the South African population. 
Probability of dying from HIV/AIDS shows that over the period, fluctuations in 
likelihood of mortality have occurred, but for both males and females (of all 
age groups) the chances of dying from this cause decreased in 2007-2009.

DOI: 10.2989/16085906.2014.886605
PMID: 25174511 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


204. J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2015 Mar;135(3):682-8.e11. doi: 
10.1016/j.jaci.2014.07.016. Epub 2014 Aug 28.

Symptom- and fraction of exhaled nitric oxide-driven strategies for asthma 
control: A cluster-randomized trial in primary care.

Honkoop PJ(1), Loijmans RJ(2), Termeer EH(3), Snoeck-Stroband JB(4), van den 
Hout WB(4), Bakker MJ(4), Assendelft WJ(5), ter Riet G(2), Sterk PJ(6), Schermer 
TR(3), Sont JK(4); Asthma Control Cost-Utility Randomized Trial Evaluation 
(ACCURATE) Study Group.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands; Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Leiden 
University Medical Center, Leiden, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
P.J.Honkoop@lumc.nl.
(2)Department of General Practice, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Department of Primary and Community Care, Radboud University Medical Center, 
Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(4)Department of Medical Decision Making, Leiden University Medical Center, 
Leiden, The Netherlands.
(5)Department of Public Health and Primary Care, Leiden University Medical 
Center, Leiden, The Netherlands; Department of Primary and Community Care, 
Radboud University Medical Center, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(6)Department of Pulmonology, Academic Medical Center, Amsterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Comment in
    J Allergy Clin Immunol. 2015 Mar;135(3):689-90.e1.

BACKGROUND: Aiming at partly controlled asthma (PCa) instead of controlled 
asthma (Ca) might decrease asthma medication use. Biomarkers, such as the 
fraction of exhaled nitric oxide (Feno), allow further tailoring of treatment.
OBJECTIVE: We sought to assess the cost-effectiveness and clinical effectiveness 
of pursuing PCa, Ca, or Feno-driven controlled asthma (FCa).
METHODS: In a nonblind, pragmatic, cluster-randomized trial in primary care, 
adults (18-50 years of age) with a doctor's diagnosis of asthma who were 
prescribed inhaled corticosteroids were allocated to one of 3 treatment 
strategies: (1) aiming at PCa (Asthma Control Questionnaire [ACQ] score <1.50); 
(2) aiming at Ca (ACQ score <0.75); and (3) aiming at FCa (ACQ score <0.75 and 
Feno value <25 ppb). During 12 months' follow-up, treatment was adjusted every 3 
months by using an online decision support tool. Outcomes were incremental cost 
per quality-adjusted life year gained, asthma control (ACQ score), quality of 
life (Asthma Quality of Life Questionnaire score), asthma medication use, and 
severe exacerbation rate.
RESULTS: Six hundred eleven participants were allocated to the PCa (n = 219), Ca 
(n = 203), or FCa (n = 189) strategies. The FCa strategy improved asthma control 
compared with the PCa strategy (P < .02). There were no differences in quality 
of life (P ≥ .36). Asthma medication use was significantly lower for the PCa and 
FCa strategies compared with the Ca strategy (medication costs: PCa, $452; Ca, 
$551; and FCa, $456; P ≤ .04). The FCa strategy had the highest probability of 
cost-effectiveness at a willingness to pay of $50,000/quality-adjusted life year 
(86%; PCa, 2%; Ca, 12%). There were no differences in severe exacerbation rate.
CONCLUSION: A symptom- plus Feno-driven strategy reduces asthma medication use 
while sustaining asthma control and quality of life and is the preferred 
strategy for adult asthmatic patients in primary care.

Copyright © 2014 American Academy of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jaci.2014.07.016
PMID: 25174865 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


205. Lancet Oncol. 2014 Sep;15(10):1168-76. doi: 10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70343-2.
Epub  2014 Aug 27.

Integrated collaborative care for major depression comorbid with a poor 
prognosis cancer (SMaRT Oncology-3): a multicentre randomised controlled trial 
in patients with lung cancer.

Walker J(1), Hansen CH(2), Martin P(3), Symeonides S(4), Gourley C(4), Wall 
L(4), Weller D(5), Murray G(5), Sharpe M(6); SMaRT (Symptom Management Research 
Trials) Oncology-3 Team.

Collaborators: Sharpe M, Murray G, Weller D, Walker J, Hansen CH, Martin P, 
McElhinney K, Stratton S, Gourley C, Wall L, Symeonides S, Wigglesworth A, 
Currie E, Hodges L, Steen C, Harpin L, Cassidy J, Sharpe M, Harrand R, Wall L, 
Steele N, Lord H, West D, Kirk A, Sharpe M, Walker J, Thekkumpurath P, O'Connor 
M, Sharma N, Beale C, Byrne A, Sawhney A, Hamilton G, Russell L, Murdoch F, 
Russell M, Petrie L, Loynd M, Hunter S, Veitch L, McCulloch A, Symeonides S, 
Macnab M, Ruddell S, Dickson L, Dewar S, Cowie J, Witt E, Sculpher M, Richardson 
G, Walker S, Duarte A, Katon W, Kroenke K, Breslin M, Randell K, Russell L, 
Watson P, Macdougall A, Petrie J, Cumming V, Chan T, Russell M, Lindsay D, 
Geddes E, Cooney S, McCusker A, Smillie H, Cunningham K, White M, Coventry H, 
Wallace J, Stephen L, Brennan N, Brookmann F, Perratt A, Colquhoun L, Maybury K, 
Shek A, Williamson K, Kennedy N, Wynne P, Ramirez A, Bennett M, Cameron D, Dunn 
G, Gilbody S, Rainey P, Richardson A, Velikova G, Geddes J, Juszczak E, Stark D.

Author information:
(1)Psychological Medicine Research, University of Oxford Department of 
Psychiatry, Warneford Hospital, Oxford, UK. Electronic address: 
jane.walker@psych.ox.ac.uk.
(2)MRC Tropical Epidemiology Group, London School of Hygiene and Tropical 
Medicine, London, UK.
(3)Psychological Medicine Research, University of Edinburgh Department of 
Psychiatry, Edinburgh, UK.
(4)University of Edinburgh Cancer Research UK Centre, Western General Hospital, 
Edinburgh, UK.
(5)University of Edinburgh Centre for Population Health Sciences, Edinburgh, UK.
(6)Psychological Medicine Research, University of Oxford Department of 
Psychiatry, Warneford Hospital, Oxford, UK.

Comment in
    Lancet. 2014 Sep 20;384(9948):1076-8.

BACKGROUND: The management of depression in patients with poor prognosis 
cancers, such as lung cancer, creates specific challenges. We aimed to assess 
the efficacy of an integrated treatment programme for major depression in 
patients with lung cancer compared with usual care.
METHODS: Symptom Management Research Trials (SMaRT) Oncology-3 is a 
parallel-group, multicentre, randomised controlled trial. We enrolled patients 
with lung cancer and major depression from three cancer centres and their 
associated clinics in Scotland, UK. Participants were randomly assigned in a 1:1 
ratio to the depression care for people with lung cancer treatment programme or 
usual care by a database software algorithm that used stratification (by trial 
centre) and minimisation (by age, sex, and cancer type) with allocation 
concealment. Depression care for people with lung cancer is a manualised, 
multicomponent collaborative care treatment that is systematically delivered by 
a team of cancer nurses and psychiatrists in collaboration with primary care 
physicians. Usual care is provided by primary care physicians. The primary 
outcome was depression severity (on the Symptom Checklist Depression Scale 
[SCL-20], range 0-4) averaged over the patient's time in the trial (up to a 
maximum of 32 weeks). Trial statisticians and data collection staff were masked 
to treatment allocation, but patients and clinicians could not be masked to the 
allocations. Analyses were by intention to treat. This trial is registered with 
Current Controlled Trials, number ISRCTN75905964.
FINDINGS: 142 participants were recruited between Jan 5, 2009, and Sept 9, 2011; 
68 were randomly allocated to depression care for people with lung cancer and 74 
to usual care. 43 (30%) of 142 patients had died by 32 weeks, all of which were 
cancer-related deaths. No intervention-related serious adverse events occurred. 
131 (92%) of 142 patients provided outcome data (59 in the depression care for 
people with lung cancer group and 72 in the usual care group) and were included 
in the intention-to-treat primary analysis. Average depression severity was 
significantly lower in patients allocated to depression care for people with 
lung cancer (mean score on the SCL-20 1·24 [SD 0·64]) than in those allocated to 
usual care (mean score 1·61 [SD 0·58]); difference -0·38 (95% CI -0·58 to 
-0·18); standardised mean difference -0·62 (95% CI -0·94 to -0·29). Self-rated 
depression improvement, anxiety, quality of life, role functioning, perceived 
quality of care, and proportion of patients achieving a 12-week treatment 
response were also significantly better in the depression care for people with 
lung cancer group than in the usual care group.
INTERPRETATION: Our findings suggest that major depression can be treated 
effectively in patients with a poor prognosis cancer; integrated depression care 
for people with lung cancer was substantially more efficacious than was usual 
care. Larger trials are now needed to estimate the effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of this care programme in this patient population, and 
further adaptation of the treatment will be necessary to address the unmet needs 
of patients with major depression and even shorter life expectancy.
FUNDING: Cancer Research UK and Chief Scientist Office of the Scottish 
Government.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1470-2045(14)70343-2
PMID: 25175097 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


206. Trends Endocrinol Metab. 2014 Nov;25(11):555-7. doi:
10.1016/j.tem.2014.08.003.  Epub 2014 Aug 29.

Intervening in ageing to prevent the diseases of ageing.

Partridge L(1).

Author information:
(1)Max Planck Institute for Biology of Ageing, Joseph-Stelzmann-Str. 9b, D-50931 
Cologne, Germany; Institute of Healthy Ageing, and Department of Genetics, 
Environment, and Evolution, University College London, Darwin Building, Gower 
Street, London WC1E 6BT, UK. Electronic address: linda.partridge@age.mpg.de.

Increases in human lifespan worldwide have revealed that advancing age is the 
predominant risk factor for major life-threatening diseases. Recent work has 
shown that ageing in diverse animals, including humans, is malleable to specific 
types of genetic mutation, diet, and drugs that can extend lifespan and improve 
health during ageing. These findings point to the prospect of broad-spectrum 
preventive medicine for the diseases of ageing based on intervention in relevant 
aspects of the ageing process itself.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tem.2014.08.003
PMID: 25175302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


207. Gene. 2014 Nov 10;551(2):201-5. doi: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.08.057. Epub 2014
Aug  28.

The functional VNTR of IGH enhancer HS1.2 associates with human longevity and 
interacts with TNFA promoter diplotype in a population of Central Italy.

Napolioni V(1), Serone E(2), Iacoacci V(3), Carpi FM(4), Giambra V(5), Frezza 
D(3).

Author information:
(1)Innovation Pole for Genomics, Genetics and Biology, Perugia, Italy. 
Electronic address: napvale@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Life, Health and Environmental Sciences, University of 
L'Aquila, L'Aquila, Italy.
(3)Department of Biology "E Calef", University of Tor Vergata, Rome, Italy.
(4)Innovation Pole for Genomics, Genetics and Biology, Perugia, Italy.
(5)Terry Fox Laboratory, British Columbia Cancer Research Centre, Vancouver, BC, 
Canada.

The dysregulation of both immune and inflammatory responses occurring with aging 
is believed to substantially contribute to morbidity and mortality in humans. We 
have already reported the association of the functional Variable Number of 
Tandem Repeat (VNTR) at the Immunoglobulin heavy chain (IGH) enhancer HS1.2 with 
Immunoglobulin levels and with several autoimmune diseases. Herein we tested the 
association of the VNTR at the HS1.2 enhancer with human longevity, also 
evaluating the possible modulatory effect of TNFA promoter diplotype 
(rs361525/rs1800629). HS1.2 enhancer genotypes have been determined for 193 
unrelated healthy individuals from Central Italy divided into two groups: Group 
1 (18-84 yrs, mean age 56.8 ± 19.4) and Group 2 (85-100 yrs, mean age 93.0 ± 
3.5). Homozygous subjects for 2 allele were significantly disadvantaged in 
reaching higher life-expectancy (OR=0.457, p=0.021). A significant interaction 
between TNFA promoter diplotype status, HS1.2 2/2 genotype and the two Groups 
was found (p=0.014). Of note, TNFA -308A allele seems to exert a protective 
effect in HS1.2 2/2 carriers. These results support the hypothesis of an 
important role of HS1.2 VNTR in the puzzle of the immune-system regulation, 
evidenced also by the potential interaction with TNFA. Moreover, the previous 
results showing the association of HS1.2 2 allele with inflammatory phenomena 
are consistent with the hypothesis that this allele is a detrimental factor in 
reaching advanced age.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gene.2014.08.057
PMID: 25175451 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Respir Med. 2014 Sep;108(9):1292-302. doi: 10.1016/j.rmed.2014.06.005. Epub
2014  Jun 25.

COST-effectiveness of salmeterol/fluticasone propionate combination (Advair(®)) 
in uncontrolled asthma in Canada.

Ismaila AS(1), Risebrough N(2), Li C(2), Corriveau D(3), Hawkins N(2), 
FitzGerald JM(4), Su Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Medical Affairs, GlaxoSmithKline, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 6L4, Canada; 
Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, 
Hamilton, Ontario L8S 4K1, Canada. Electronic address: Afisi.S.Ismaila@gsk.com.
(2)ICON plc (Formerly Oxford Outcomes Ltd)., Toronto, Ontario M2J 4Y8, Canada.
(3)Medical Affairs, GlaxoSmithKline, Mississauga, Ontario L5N 6L4, Canada.
(4)Institute for Heart and Lung Health, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, British Columbia V5Z 1M9, Canada.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-utility of the treatment with a long acting 
beta-agonist (LABA) and inhaled corticosteroid (ICS) combination inhaler 
[salmeterol xinafoate (SAL)/fluticasone propionate (FP) combination inhaler 
(SFC) (Advair(®))] to continuing on current ICS dose (no ICS dose change) or 
increased ICS dose [fluticasone propionate (FP)] in patients with uncontrolled 
asthma in Canada.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis was conducted from a Canadian public healthcare 
perspective with a one year time horizon. In the no FP dose change scenarios, 
remaining on daily low (FP 100 ug BID) or medium (FP 200-250 ug BID) or high 
dose (FP 500 ug BID) was considered. In the increased FP dose scenarios, 
doubling the FP dose from low to medium dose and from medium to high dose 
regimens were considered. A decision model was developed with two health states: 
"symptom free" or "with symptoms". Clinical efficacy was based on a 
meta-analysis of relevant randomized controlled trials. Over the one year time 
horizon the percentage with symptom free days (SFD) was used as the measure of 
differential treatment scenario effectiveness. Drug costs and non-drug costs 
were incorporated into the analysis. Utilities, derived from EQ5D scores and 
health services resource use based on patient diaries for 'symptom free' and 
'with symptoms' were based on regression analyses of individual patient data 
from the Gaining Optimal Asthma controL (GOAL) trial. Costs were assessed by 
assigning unit cost for each health services resource use for each patient. The 
incremental cost-utility ratios (ICUR) for SFC vs no FP dose change or increased 
FP dose were estimated using descriptive statistics. Uncertainty was assessed by 
deterministic and probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA).
RESULTS: Over one year, SFC resulted in an incremental cost per patient of 
$544-$655 compared to no FP dose change and $47-$380 per year compared to 
increased FP dose. SFC results in incremental QALYs per patient of 0.0100-0.0149 
compared to no FP dose change and 0.0136-0.0152 compared to increased FP dose. 
The one year ICURs were $43,000 to $54,400 per QALY gained for SFC compared to 
no FP dose change and $25,000 to $3500 per QALY gained compared to increased FP 
dose scenarios. The probability of SFC being cost-effective at $50,000 per QALY 
gained was greater than 75% compared to increased FP dose scenarios and compared 
to no dose change for patients on low or medium dose FP. The results were robust 
to changes in assumptions within the model.
CONCLUSION: In Canadian patients with inadequately controlled asthma on FP, it 
is cost-effective to use SFC for patients 12 years and over compared to doubling 
their FP dose. It is also cost-effective to use SFC for patients on low or 
medium dose FP compared to remaining on the current FP dose in patients with 
uncontrolled asthma.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rmed.2014.06.005
PMID: 25175480 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Biochim Biophys Acta. 2014 Dec;1840(12):3335-44. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbagen.2014.08.011. Epub 2014 Aug 28.

SH2B1 increases the numbers of IRSp53-induced filopodia.

Hong SJ(1), Liu ST(1), Chen CJ(1), Chen L(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Molecular Medicine, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 
30013, Taiwan, ROC.
(2)Institute of Molecular Medicine, National Tsing Hua University, Hsinchu 
30013, Taiwan, ROC; Department of Medical Science, National Tsing Hua 
University, Hsinchu 30013, Taiwan, ROC. Electronic address: 
lchen@life.nthu.edu.tw.

BACKGROUND: Filopodia are actin-rich membrane protrusions that play instrumental 
roles in development, cell migration, pathogen detection, and wound healing. 
During neurogenesis, filopodium formation precedes the formation of dendrites 
and spines. The insulin receptor substrate protein of 53kDa (IRSp53) has been 
implicated in regulating the formation of filopodia. Our previous results 
suggest that a signaling adaptor protein SH2B1β is required for neurite 
outgrowth of hippocampal neurons and neurite initiation of PC12 cells. Thus, we 
hypothesize that IRSp53 and SH2B1β may act together to regulate filopodium 
formation.
METHODS: To determine the contribution of IRSp53 and SH2B1β in the formation of 
filopodia, we transiently transfect IRSp53 and/or SH2B1β to 293T cells. Cell 
morphology and protein distribution are assessed via confocal microscopy and 
subcellular fractionation. Total numbers of filopodia and filopodium numbers per 
perimeter are calculated to show the relative contribution of IRSp53 and SH2B1β.
RESULTS: In this study, we show that SH2B1β interacts with IRSp53 and increases 
the number of IRSp53-induced filopodia. One mechanism for this enhancement is 
that IRSp53 recruits SH2B1β to the plasma membrane to actively promote membrane 
protrusion. The increased numbers of filopodia likely result from SH2B1-mediated 
cytoplasmic extension and thus increased cell perimeter as well as 
IRSp53-mediated filopodium formation.
CONCLUSIONS: Taken together, this study provides a novel finding that SH2B1β 
interacts with IRSp53-containing complexes to increase the number of filopodia.
GENERAL SIGNIFICANCE: A better understanding of how SH2B1β and IRSp53 promote 
filopodium formation may have clinical implication in neurogenesis and 
regeneration.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbagen.2014.08.011
PMID: 25175559


210. Int Rev Neurobiol. 2014;118:403-40. doi: 10.1016/B978-0-12-801284-0.00013-0.

NeuroHIV and use of addictive substances.

Chang SL(1), Connaghan KP(2), Wei Y(2), Li MD(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of NeuroImmune Pharmacology, Seton Hall University, South Orange, 
New Jersey, USA; Department of Biological Sciences, Seton Hall University, South 
Orange, New Jersey, USA. Electronic address: sulie.chang@shu.edu.
(2)Institute of NeuroImmune Pharmacology, Seton Hall University, South Orange, 
New Jersey, USA.
(3)Department of Psychiatry and Neurobehavioral Sciences, University of 
Virginia, Charlottesville, Virginia, USA.

In the past three decades, substance abuse has been identified as a key 
comorbidity of human immunodeficiency virus-1 (HIV-1) infection. Many studies 
have found that the use and abuse of addictive substances hastens the 
progression of HIV-1 infection and HIV-associated neurocognitive disorders. 
Advances in highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in the mid-1990s have 
been successful in limiting the HIV-1 viral load and maintaining a relatively 
healthy immune response, allowing the life expectancy of patients infected with 
HIV to approach that of the general population. However, even with HAART, HIV-1 
viral proteins are still expressed and eradication of the virus, particularly in 
the brain, the key reservoir organ, does not occur. In the post-HAART era, the 
clinical challenge in the treatment of HIV infection is inflammation of the 
central nervous system (CNS) and its subsequent neurological disorders. To date, 
various explicit and implicit connections have been identified between the 
neuronal circuitry involved in immune responses and brain regions affected by 
and implicated in substance abuse. This chapter discusses past and current 
medical uses of prototypical substances of abuse, including morphine, alcohol, 
cocaine, methamphetamine, marijuana, and nicotine, and the evidence that 
systemic infections, particularly HIV-1 infection, cause neurological 
dysfunction as a result of inflammation in the CNS, which can increase the risk 
of substance abuse.

© 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/B978-0-12-801284-0.00013-0
PMID: 25175871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. PeerJ. 2014 Aug 19;2:e520. doi: 10.7717/peerj.520. eCollection 2014.

Sequencing at sea: challenges and experiences in Ion Torrent PGM sequencing 
during the 2013 Southern Line Islands Research Expedition.

Lim YW(1), Cuevas DA(2), Silva GG(2), Aguinaldo K(3), Dinsdale EA(1), Haas 
AF(1), Hatay M(1), Sanchez SE(1), Wegley-Kelly L(1), Dutilh BE(4), Harkins 
TT(5), Lee CC(6), Tom W(5), Sandin SA(7), Smith JE(7), Zgliczynski B(7), Vermeij 
MJ(8), Rohwer F(1), Edwards RA(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, San Diego State University , San Diego, CA , USA.
(2)Computational Sciences Research Center, San Diego State University , San 
Diego, CA , USA.
(3)Department of Biology, San Diego State University , San Diego, CA , USA ; Ion 
Torrent Research & Development Group, Thermo Fisher Scientific , Carlsbad, CA , 
USA.
(4)Centre for Molecular and Biomolecular Informatics, Radboud Institute for 
Molecular Life Sciences, Radboud University Medical Centre , Geert Grooteplein, 
GA, Nijmegen , The Netherlands ; Department of Marine Biology, Institute of 
Biology, Federal University of Rio de Janeiro , Brazil.
(5)Advanced Applications Group, Life Technologies, Inc. , Beverly, MA , USA.
(6)Advanced Applications Group, Life Technologies, Inc. , Beverly, MA , USA ; 
Life Sciences Group, Thermo Fisher Scientific , South San Francisco, CA , USA.
(7)Center for Marine Biodiversity and Conservation, Scripps Institution of 
Oceanography, University of California San Diego , La Jolla, CA , USA.
(8)Caribbean Research and Management of Biodiversity (CARMABI) , Willemstad , 
Curacao ; Aquatic Microbiology, Institute for Biodiversity and Ecosystem 
Dynamics, University of Amsterdam , Amsterdam , The Netherlands.
(9)Department of Biology, San Diego State University , San Diego, CA , USA ; 
Department of Marine Biology, Institute of Biology, Federal University of Rio de 
Janeiro , Brazil ; Division of Mathematics and Computer Science, Argonne 
National Laboratory , Argonne, IL , USA.

Genomics and metagenomics have revolutionized our understanding of marine 
microbial ecology and the importance of microbes in global geochemical cycles. 
However, the process of DNA sequencing has always been an abstract extension of 
the research expedition, completed once the samples were returned to the 
laboratory. During the 2013 Southern Line Islands Research Expedition, we 
started the first effort to bring next generation sequencing to some of the most 
remote locations on our planet. We successfully sequenced twenty six marine 
microbial genomes, and two marine microbial metagenomes using the Ion Torrent 
PGM platform on the Merchant Yacht Hanse Explorer. Onboard sequence assembly, 
annotation, and analysis enabled us to investigate the role of the microbes in 
the coral reef ecology of these islands and atolls. This analysis identified 
phosphonate as an important phosphorous source for microbes growing in the Line 
Islands and reinforced the importance of L-serine in marine microbial 
ecosystems. Sequencing in the field allowed us to propose hypotheses and conduct 
experiments and further sampling based on the sequences generated. By 
eliminating the delay between sampling and sequencing, we enhanced the 
productivity of the research expedition. By overcoming the hurdles associated 
with sequencing on a boat in the middle of the Pacific Ocean we proved the 
flexibility of the sequencing, annotation, and analysis pipelines.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.520
PMCID: PMC4145072
PMID: 25177534


212. Kardiologiia. 2014;54(4):4-9.

[Dynamics of cardiovascular mortality among men and women in subjects of Russian 
Federation (2002 to 2011)].

[Article in Russian]

Boĭtsov SA, Samorodskaia IV.

OBJECTIVE: to study the dynamics of CVD mortality in men and women in the 
Russian Federation (RF) for the period from 2002 to 2011.
METHODS: The study was performed on the basis of official statistics "Rosstat". 
Results. In 2011 the average death rate from CVD for the regions of the Russian 
Federation among men and women was significantly lower than in 2002 (p<0.0001). 
Average mortality from CVD among women was lower than among men (p<0.0001). 
Factors of time and gender were statistically significant (p<0.0001 ) for 
changes CVD mortality in the subjects of the Russian Federation. The mean 
absolute decrease in CVD mortality among men in Russia amounted to -39.7; among 
women - 24.9. In regions with 2002 CVD mortality in men above 1000 the mean 
absolute decrease was -41.1+/-15.1 while in regions with 2002 CVD mortality 
below 1000 mean absolute decrease was -22.1+/-11.8 (p=0.001). At the same time, 
in 39 subjects the downward trend in performance was unstable, between-year 
differences were substantial, especially among male population.
CONCLUSION: During the period 2002-2011 decline of CVD mortality of men and 
women was recorded in all regions of Russia. At the same time, given the 
significant variation of figures and high probability of inadequate coding of 
causes of death additional research is needed in one-year age groups using the 
RF subjects uniform criteria of causes of death.

PMID: 25177779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Kardiologiia. 2014;54(7):43-52. doi: 10.18565/cardio.2014.7.43-52.

[Cost-effectiveness of apixaban compared to other new oral anticoagulants in 
patients with non-valvular atrial fibrillation].

[Article in Russian]

Rudakova AV, Tatarskiĭ BA.

BACKGROUND: Atrial fibrillation is associated with development of thromboembolic 
events. New oral anticoagulants (apixaban, rivaroxaban and dabigatran) are 
recommended for antithrombotic therapy in patients with non-valvular atrial 
fibrillation (NVAF) with moderate and high risk of stroke.
OBJECTIVES: The objective of this study was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
ratio of apixaban compared to dabigatran and rivaroxaban in patients with NVAF 
from the Russian Federation national health care system perspective.
METHODS: This analysis used a Markov model that allowed estimation of the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) for apixaban compared to rivaroxaban 
and dabigatran 110 mg and 150 mg over lifetime horizon for patients with NVAF. 
The model enclosed cardiovascular event rates based on the results of the 
indirect treatment comparison that combined data from the randomized clinical 
trials comparing clinical effectiveness and safety of apixaban, rivaroxaban and 
dabigatran with warfarin (ARISTOTLE, ROCKET-AF, RE-LY). The following 
cardiovascular events were considered: ischemic and hemorrhagic stroke, systemic 
embolism, intracranial hemorrhage, other major bleeds, clinically relevant 
non-major bleeds and myocardial infarction. Direct medical costs were determined 
based on the rates of the compulsory national medical insurance system. The 
price of the new oral anticoagulants was taken as a weighted average tender 
price for the year 2013. In the model both costs and benefits (quality-adjusted 
life years and life-years) were discounted at 3.5%. Cost-effectiveness threshold 
was set at 1.4 million rubles per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained and 
corresponded to the three times GDP per capita in 2013 in the Russian 
Federation.
RESULTS: In the base case analysis it was demonstrated that apixaban compared to 
dabigatran 110 mg and 150 mg and rivaroxaban provided additional 0.101, 0.060 
and 0.072 life years as well as additional 0.063; 0.038 and 0.041 QALYs 
respectively. Over lifetime horizon apixaban compared to dabigatran 110 mg and 
150 mg and rivaroxaban required additional treatment costs equal to 22.78; 31.18 
and 6.70 thousands rubles, respectively. With that estimated incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for apixaban compared to dabigatran 110 mg and 150 mg 
and rivaroxaban was 362.60, 805.54 and 162.45 thousands rubles per QALY 
correspondingly.
CONCLUSION: Apixaban provided increased life expectancy compared to other new 
anticoagulants and may be considered as a cost-effective alternative to 
dabigatran 110 mg and 150 mg and rivaroxaban from the Russian Federation 
national health care system perspective.

DOI: 10.18565/cardio.2014.7.43-52
PMID: 25177813 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Lung Cancer. 2014 Oct;86(1):96-101. doi: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2014.08.006. Epub
 2014 Aug 18.

Estimation of loss of quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) for patients with 
operable versus inoperable lung cancer: adjusting quality-of-life and lead-time 
bias for utility of surgery.

Yang SC(1), Lai WW(2), Chang HY(3), Su WC(3), Chen HH(4), Wang JD(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung University College of 
Medicine and Hospital, No. 138, Sheng Li Road, Tainan 704, Taiwan; Department of 
Public Health, National Cheng Kung University College of Medicine and Hospital, 
No. 138, Sheng Li Road, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Surgery, National Cheng Kung University College of Medicine and 
Hospital, No. 138, Sheng Li Road, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung University College of 
Medicine and Hospital, No. 138, Sheng Li Road, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Radiation Oncology, National Cheng Kung University College of 
Medicine and Hospital, No. 138, Sheng Li Road, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung University College of 
Medicine and Hospital, No. 138, Sheng Li Road, Tainan 704, Taiwan; Department of 
Public Health, National Cheng Kung University College of Medicine and Hospital, 
No. 138, Sheng Li Road, Tainan 704, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
jdwang121@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVES: This study attempts to quantify the difference in loss of 
quality-adjusted life expectancy (QALE) for patients with operable and 
inoperable non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: A cohort consisting of 1652 pathologically verified NSCLC 
patients with performance status 0-1 was monitored for 7 years (2005-2011) to 
obtain the survival function. This was further extrapolated to lifetime, based 
on the survival ratios between patients and age- and sex-matched referents 
simulated from the life tables of the National Vital Statistics of Taiwan. 
Between 2011 and 2012, EuroQol 5-dimension questionnaires were used to 
prospectively measure the quality-of-life (QoL) of a 518 consecutive, 
cross-sectional subsample. We adjusted the lifetime survival function by the 
utility values of QoL for the cancer cohort to obtain the QALE, while that for 
the age and sex-matched referents were adjusted to the values collected from the 
2009 National Health Interview Survey, and the difference between them was the 
loss-of-QALE.
RESULTS: The QALE for patients with operable and inoperable NSCLC were 
11.66±0.18 and 1.43±0.05 quality-adjusted life year (QALY), with the 
corresponding loss-of-QALE of 5.25±0.18 and 14.24±0.05 QALY, respectively. The 
lifetime utility difference for patients with operable and inoperable NSCLC was 
9.00±0.18 QALY, after adjustment for QoL and lead-time bias.
CONCLUSION: The utility gained from surgical operation for operable lung cancer 
is substantial, even after adjustment for lead-time bias. Future studies should 
compare screening programs with treatment strategies when carrying out 
cost-utility assessments to improve patients' values.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.. All rights 
reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.lungcan.2014.08.006
PMID: 25178685 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. Br J Gen Pract. 2014 Sep;64(626):e576-83. doi: 10.3399/bjgp14X681397.

Living in uncertain times: trajectories to death in residential care homes.

Barclay S(1), Froggatt K(2), Crang C(1), Mathie E(3), Handley M(3), Iliffe S(4), 
Manthorpe J(5), Gage H(6), Goodman C(3).

Author information:
(1)Primary Care Unit, Department of Public Health and Primary Care, University 
of Cambridge, Cambridge.
(2)International Observatory on End of Life Care, Faculty of Health and 
Medicine, Lancaster University, Lancaster.
(3)Centre for Research in Primary and Community Care, University of 
Hertfordshire, Hatfield.
(4)Department of Primary Care and Population Health, University College London, 
London.
(5)Social Care Workforce Research Unit, King's College London, London.
(6)Department of Economics, University of Surrey, Guildford.

BACKGROUND: Older people living in care homes often have limited life 
expectancy. Practitioners and policymakers are increasingly questioning the 
appropriateness of many acute hospital admissions and the quality of end-of-life 
care provided in care homes.
AIM: To describe care home residents' trajectories to death and care provision 
in their final weeks of life.
DESIGN AND SETTING: Prospective study of residents in six residential care homes 
in three sociodemographically varied English localities: Hertfordshire, Essex, 
and Cambridgeshire.
METHOD: Case note reviews and interviews with residents, care home staff, and 
healthcare professionals.
RESULTS: Twenty-three out of 121 recruited residents died during the study 
period. Four trajectories to death were identified: 'anticipated dying' with an 
identifiable end-of-life care period and death in the care home (n = 9); 
'unexpected dying' with death in the care home that was not anticipated and 
often sudden (n = 3); 'uncertain dying' with a period of diagnostic uncertainty 
or difficult symptom management leading to hospital admission and inpatient 
death (n = 7); and 'unpredictable dying' with an unexpected event leading to 
hospital admission and inpatient death (n = 4). End-of-life care tools were 
rarely used. Most residents who had had one or more acute hospital admission 
were still alive at the end of the study.
CONCLUSION: For some care home residents there was an identifiable period when 
they were approaching the end-of-life and planned care was put in place. For 
others, death came unexpectedly or during a period of considerable uncertainty, 
with care largely unplanned and reactive to events.

© British Journal of General Practice 2014.

DOI: 10.3399/bjgp14X681397
PMCID: PMC4141615
PMID: 25179072 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


216. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Dec;14(6):843-56. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.953934. Epub 2014 Sep 2.

Methodological developments in randomized controlled trial-based economic 
evaluations.

Thorn JC(1), Noble SM, Hollingworth W.

Author information:
(1)MRC ConDuCT Hub, School of Social and Community Medicine, University of 
Bristol, Canynge Hall, 39 Whatley Road, Bristol, BS8 2PS, UK.

Economic evaluation is a key contributor to decision making in health care, and 
it is important that it is carried out as effectively and reliably as possible. 
Studies carried out alongside randomised controlled trials are required to 
contribute real-world evidence to the decision-making process. However, the 
requirement that resource use be measured as well as effectiveness data within a 
trial results in additional complexity for trialists, and there are a number of 
methodological areas in which improvement is needed. This article reviews the 
literature in methodological work carried out to inform economic evaluation 
studies conducted alongside randomised controlled trials. Recent advances in 
areas including overall trial design, measuring resource use, measuring outcomes 
and reporting economic evaluations are discussed.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.953934
PMID: 25179207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


217. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2014 Jan;62(1):111-6. doi: 10.1111/jgs.12595.

Cost-effectiveness of cranberry capsules to prevent urinary tract infection in 
long-term care facilities: economic evaluation with a randomized controlled 
trial.

van den Hout WB, Caljouw MA, Putter H, Cools HJ, Gussekloo J.

Comment in
    J Urol. 2015 Jan;193(1):152-3.

OBJECTIVES: To investigate whether the preventive use of cranberry capsules in 
long-term care facility (LTCF) residents is cost-effective depending on urinary 
tract infection (UTI) risk.
DESIGN: Economic evaluation with a randomized controlled trial.
SETTING: Long-term care facilities.
PARTICIPANTS: LTCF residents (N = 928, 703 female, median age 84), stratified 
according to UTI risk.
MEASUREMENTS: UTI incidence (clinically or strictly defined), survival, quality 
of life, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and costs.
RESULTS: In the weeks after a clinical UTI, participants showed a significant 
but moderate deterioration in quality of life, survival, care dependency, and 
costs. In high-UTI-risk participants, cranberry costs were estimated at €439 per 
year (1.00 euro = 1.37 U.S. dollar), which is €3,800 per prevented clinically 
defined UTI (95% confidence interval = €1,300-infinity). Using the strict UTI 
definition, the use of cranberry increased costs without preventing UTIs. Taking 
cranberry capsules had a 22% probability of being cost-effective compared with 
placebo (at a willingness to pay of €40,000 per QALY). In low-UTI-risk 
participants, use of cranberry capsules was only 3% likely to be cost-effective.
CONCLUSION: In high-UTI-risk residents, taking cranberry capsules may be 
effective in preventing UTIs but is not likely to be cost-effective in the 
investigated dosage, frequency, and setting. In low-UTI-risk LTCF residents, 
taking cranberry capsules twice daily is neither effective nor cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.12595
PMCID: PMC4233962
PMID: 25180379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Am J Manag Care. 2014 May;20(7 Suppl):S145-52.

Managed care implications in managing rheumatoid arthritis.

Owens GM(1).

Author information:
(1)gowens99@comcast.net.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic inflammatory form of arthritis 
characterized by joint inflammation, pain, swelling, and stiffness. While 
contemporary treatment strategies based on early diagnosis, aggressive 
treatment, and regular monitoring have helped a significant number of patients 
achieve evidence-based treatment goals, RA still presents substantial management 
challenges to both clinicians and patients, and has the potential to lead to 
severe disability over time. In addition to its significant clinical 
consequences, RA has important economic implications. Both direct and indirect 
medical costs associated with RA are significant, including costs of 
medications, ambulatory and office-based care, and quality-of-life and 
productivity costs. In addition, a significant proportion of patients with 
prevalent RA have associated cardiovascular disease and other comorbidities, 
further compounding healthcare costs and complicating management of this 
disorder. Clinically favorable and cost-effective management must focus on 
prevention of disease progression and the improved patient health status and 
productivity than can result from optimal disease control. With the myriad of 
treatment options both available and emerging, managed care organizations are 
faced with difficult decisions surrounding the most clinically and 
cost-effective allocation of treatments designed to improve disease outcomes for 
patients with RA. It is vital that managed care clinicians and providers analyze 
both the overall burden and the specific costs of RA. This will allow a better 
understanding of how costs and issues relating to healthcare utilization affect 
the treatment of patients with RA and impact individualized therapy, care 
coordination, and outcomes.

PMID: 25180623 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Am J Manag Care. 2014 Jun;20(8 Suppl):S160-5.

Balancing therapeutic safety and efficacy to improve clinical and economic 
outcomes in schizophrenia: a clinical overview.

Javitt DC(1).

Author information:
(1)dcj2113@columbia.edu.

Affecting up to 1% of the global population, schizophrenia is a chronic, 
disabling psychiatric disorder that has profound effects on patients, families, 
and caretakers due to its tremendous personal, social, and economic burdens. 
Schizophrenia commonly presents during late adolescence and early adulthood, and 
although its onset may be abrupt, the majority of patients experience a slow and 
gradual development of various clinical signs and symptoms. In addition to 
psychotic symptoms that may alter one's perception, thoughts, affect, and 
behavior, schizophrenia is associated with increased morbidity and mortality, 
reduced life expectancy, and higher risks of homelessness and unemployment. 
Although much research has been conducted on schizophrenia, the exact etiology 
of the disease remains unclear and is likely multifactorial, and evidence has 
suggested that neuroanatomical alterations and neurotransmitter abnormalities 
contribute to the disease's pathophysiology. It is essential to remember that 
schizophrenia is a chronic disease that requires long-term treatment. While 
there are currently no definitive diagnostic tests for schizophrenia, the 
Diagnostic and Statistical Manual of Mental Disorders, Fifth Edition criteria 
should be used to guide proper diagnosis and identification. Further research 
and an improved understanding of the pathophysiological basis of schizophrenia 
may drive more effective treatment options and improved patient outcomes for 
this complex and challenging disease.

PMID: 25180705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. Am J Manag Care. 2014 Jun;20(8 Suppl):S174-83.

Balancing therapeutic safety and efficacy to improve clinical and economic 
outcomes in schizophrenia: a managed care perspective.

Liu J(1).

Author information:
(1)liu@ncqa.org.

Schizophrenia is a serious mental disorder associated with high morbidity and 
mortality, reduced life expectancy, and increased economic burden. Antipsychotic 
agents used for the management of schizophrenia are often associated with 
undesirable adverse effects, such as weight gain and metabolic abnormalities, 
contributing to elevated risk of cardiovascular disease, diabetes, and 
mortality. Contributors to the growing economic burden of schizophrenia include 
direct (eg, medical care and hospitalization) and indirect costs (eg, lost 
productivity and mortality). Strategies to reduce these expenditures include the 
use of generic medications, improving treatment adherence, avoidance of 
switching antipsychotic therapies, reducing disease relapses, and appropriate 
management of cardiometabolic disease. Arguably, while pharmacy benefit and 
managed care strategies (eg, prior authorization, prescription caps, copayments 
and patient cost-sharing strategies, tiered formulary pricing, and gap coverage) 
are designed and implemented to reduce healthcare costs, they may have the 
unintended result of creating barriers to treatment access and thereby 
contribute to further adverse patient outcomes. Managed care professionals 
should be cognizant of the drivers of cost and the need for cardiometabolic 
monitoring to individualize care for patients with schizophrenia. Further, 
comprehensive disease management plans should be developed that include the 
monitoring of disease progression and treatment adherence, while factoring in 
medication and healthcare administration costs.

PMID: 25180707 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Ann Plast Surg. 2015 Nov;75(5):552-5. doi: 10.1097/SAP.0000000000000199.

Expanded Flaps in Surgical Treatment of Pressure Sores: Our Experience for 25 
Years.

Di Caprio G(1), Serra-Mestre JM, Ziccardi P, Scioli M, Larocca F, Nunziata V, 
Grella R, D'Andrea F.

Author information:
(1)From the *Department of Morphofunctional Rehabilitation in Plastic Surgery, 
Salvatore Maugeri Foundation (IRCCS), Telese, Italy; and †Plastic and 
Reconstructive Surgery Department, Second University of Naples, Naples, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Because the ischial region is the main weight-bearing area in 
sitting, it is one of the areas most frequently affected by pressure ulcers in 
paraplegic patients resuming the sitting position during the subacute and 
chronic stages. The techniques described to date have not been able to reduce 
the high rates of recurrence and flap dehiscence. Other groups have described 
successful tissue expansion in the treatment of pressure ulcers, but to date, 
the long-term results of the procedure have not been reported.
METHODS: The long-term follow-up of 138 reconstructions of the ischial region in 
patients with pressure ulcers types III to IV treated with posterior thigh 
expanded rotation flaps is reported.
RESULTS: All patients achieved complete resolution, with adequate coverage of 
deeper layers, although 15.94% presented minor complications. None of these 
complications impeded full repair of the lesion. The 28 lesions that recurred 
were all reconstructed with the re-expansion of the same flap. There were no 
cases of flap dehiscence.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of tissue expanders to treat ischial pressure ulcers, 
especially in patients with long life expectancy, offers important advantages 
over other approaches. The procedure provides abundant, high-quality tissue and 
may be repeated many times without creating new scars. With the use of tissue 
expanders, other reconstructive options can be reserved for the future.

DOI: 10.1097/SAP.0000000000000199
PMID: 25180954 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


222. Dtsch Med Wochenschr. 2014 Sep;139(37):1811-2. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1370290.
Epub  2014 Sep 2.

[Rheumatism: normal life is the aim for all patients].

[Article in German]

Schneider M(1).

Author information:
(1)Poliklinik für Rheumatologie, Heinrich-Heine Universität Düsseldorf.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1370290
PMID: 25180994 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


223. Hematology. 2015 Jun;20(5):297-303. doi: 10.1179/1607845414Y.0000000197.
Epub  2014 Sep 2.

Impact of educational programme regarding chelation therapy on the quality of 
life for B-thalassemia major children.

Abu Samra O, Auda W, Kamhawy H, Al-Tonbary Y.
