
Comment in
    Kidney Int. 2015 Nov;88(5):1199.

Deterioration in renal function has been described after endovascular repair of 
abdominal aortic aneurysms (EVRs). The etiology is multifactorial and represents 
an important therapeutic target. A need exists to quantitatively summarize 
incidence and severity of renal dysfunction after EVR to allow better-informed 
attempts to preserve renal function and improve life expectancy. Here a 
systematic search was performed using Medline and Embase for renal function 
after EVR applying PRISMA statements. Univariate and multivariate random-effects 
meta-analyses were performed to estimate pooled postoperative changes in serum 
creatinine and creatinine clearance at four time points after EVR. Clinically 
relevant deterioration in renal function was also estimated at 1 year or more 
after EVR. Pooled probability of clinically relevant deterioration in renal 
function at 1 year or more was 18% (95% confidence interval of 14-23%, I2 of 
82.5%). Serum creatinine increased after EVR by 0.05 mg/dl at 30 days/1 month, 
0.09 mg/dl at 1 month to 1 year, and 0.11 mg/dl at 1 year or more (all 
significant). Creatinine clearance decreased after EVR by 5.65 ml/min at 1 
month-1 year and by 6.58 ml/min at 1 year or more (both significant). Thus, 
renal dysfunction after EVR is common and merits attention.

DOI: 10.1038/ki.2014.272
PMCID: PMC5590709
PMID: 25140912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


111. J Med Assoc Thai. 2014 Jul;97 Suppl 7:S101-6.

Physical therapy workforce shortage for aging and aged societies in Thailand.

Kraiwong R, Vongsirinavarat M, Soonthorndhada K.

According to demographic changes, the size of the aging population has rapidly 
increased. Thailand has been facing the "aging society" since 2005 and the "aged 
society" has been projected to appear by the year 2025. Increased life 
expectancy is associated with health problems and risks, specifically chronic 
diseases and disability. Aging and aged societies and related specific 
conditions as stroke require the provision of services from health 
professionals. The shortage of the physical therapy workforce in Thailand has 
been reported. This study investigated the size of physical therapy workforce 
required for the approaching aging society of Thailand and estimated the number 
of needed physical therapists, specifically regarding stroke condition. 
Evidently, the issue of the physical therapy workforce to serve aging and aged 
societies in Thailand requires advocating and careful arranging.

PMID: 25141537 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


112. J Dev Orig Health Dis. 2010 Jun;1(3):174-83. doi: 10.1017/S2040174410000218.

Birth cohort patterns suggest that infant survival predicts adult mortality 
rates.

Meza R(1), Pourbohloul B(1), Brunham RC(1).

Author information:
(1)British Columbia Centre for Disease Control, University of British Columbia, 
Vancouver, Canada.

Dramatic improvements in life expectancy during the 20th century are commonly 
attributed to improvements in either health care services or the social and 
economic environment. We evaluated the hypothesis that improving infant survival 
produces improvements in adult (⩾40 years) mortality rates. We used 
generalizations of age-period-cohort models of mortality that explicitly account 
for the exponential increase of adult mortality rates with age (Gompertz model) 
to determine whether year of birth or year of death better correlate with 
observed patterns of adult mortality. We used data from Canada and nine other 
countries obtained from the Human Mortality Database. Five-year birth cohorts 
between 1900 and 1944 showed consistent improvements in age-specific mortality 
rates. According to the akaike information criteria, Gompertz-Cohort models 
significantly better predicted the observed patterns of adult mortality than 
Gompertz-Period models, demonstrating that year of birth correlates better with 
adult mortality than year of death. Infant mortality strongly correlated with 
the initial set point of adult mortality in a Gompertz-period-cohort. Selected 
countries exhibited elevated adult mortality rates for the 1920 and 1944 birth 
cohorts, suggesting that the period before the first year of life may be 
uniquely vulnerable to environmental influences. These findings suggest that 
public health investments in the health of mothers and children can be a broad 
primary prevention strategy to prevent the chronic diseases of the adult years.

DOI: 10.1017/S2040174410000218
PMID: 25141785


113. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2014 Dec;12(6):623-33. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-014-0121-x.

The importance of proximity to death in modelling community medication 
expenditures for older people: evidence from New Zealand.

Moore PV(1), Bennett K, Normand C.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Policy and Management, Trinity College Dublin, 3/4 Foster 
Place, College Green, Dublin 2, Ireland, moorepv@tcd.ie.

BACKGROUND: Concerns about the long-term sustainability of health care 
expenditures (HCEs), particularly prescribing expenditures, has become an 
important policy issue in most developed countries. Previous studies suggest 
that proximity to death (PTD) has a significant effect on total HCEs, with its 
exclusion leading to an overestimation of likely growth. There are limited 
studies of pharmaceutical expenditures in which PTD is taken into account.
OBJECTIVE: This study presents an empirical analysis of public medication 
expenditure on older individuals in New Zealand (NZ). The aim of the study was 
to examine the individual effects of age and PTD using individual-level data.
METHODS: This study uses individual-level dispensing data from 2008/2009 
covering the whole population of medication users aged 70 years or older and 
resident in NZ. A case-control methodology was used to examine individual cost 
and medication use for a 12-month period for decedents (cases) and survivors 
(controls). A random effects two-part model, with a Probit and generalized 
linear model (GLM) was used to explore the effect of age and PTD on 
expenditures.
RESULTS: The impact of PTD on prescription expenditure is not as dramatic as 
studies reporting on acute and/or long-term care. The 12-month 
decedent-to-survivor mean expenditure ratio was 1.95; 2.09 for males and 1.82 
for females. The additional cost of dying in terms of prescription drugs 
decreases with age, with those who die at 90 years of age or older consuming 
fewer drugs on average and having a lower mean expenditure than those who died 
in their 70s and 80s. The following variables were found to have a decreasing 
effect on the mean monthly prescription expenditures: a reduction of 2.2 % for 
each additional year of age, 4.2 % being in the Maori ethnic group, and 7.8 % 
for Pacific Islanders. Increases in monthly expenditure were associated with 
being a decedent 32.1-62.6 % (depending on month), being of Asian origin 16.2 %, 
or being a male 12.6 %.
CONCLUSIONS: Given the variance reported between survivors and decedents, future 
projections should include PTD in their models to improve accuracy. Policies 
targeted at reducing expenditures should not focus on age but on ensuring 
appropriate and cost-effective prescribing, particularly towards the end of 
life.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-014-0121-x
PMID: 25141830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


114. Urologe A. 2014 Sep;53(9):1329-43. doi: 10.1007/s00120-014-3558-5.

[Organ and kidney function preservation in renal cell carcinoma].

[Article in German]

Schenck M(1), Eder R, Rübben H, Niedworok C, Tschirdewahn S.

Author information:
(1)Urologische Universitätsklinik Essen, Hufelandstraße 55, 45122, Essen, 
Deutschland, marcus.schenck@uk-essen.de.

BACKGROUND: The organ-preserving partial nephrectomy has increasingly 
established itself in small unilateral renal tumours (<4 cm) with contralateral 
healthy kidney and counter gained in recent years in importance. There was found 
a significantly increased cardiovascular mortality rate and deteriorated quality 
of life, the more intact kidney tissue has been removed.
OBJECTIVES: In the present study, the influence of pre- and perioperative 
factors on direct postoperative course was examined, including 5-year survival 
rate and relapse behaviour after open organ-preserving partial nephrectomy in 
our own collective.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: In this retrospective study of 1657 patients were 
collected, who underwent surgery between 2007 and 2013 in the Department of 
Urology at the University Hospital Essen because of a renal tumour. 38 % of 
these operations (n = 636) were performed organ-preserving. In this trial there 
are factors identified that have an impact on need of blood transfusion and 
length of hospitalization in organ-preserving operation method.
RESULTS: No independent parameter can be determined for the need of blood 
transfusion. Tumour size and thus time of resection procedure does not affect 
the need of erythrocytes administration. In addition, the tumour size influences 
neither the postoperative serum-haemoglobin nor serum-creatinine. Increased 
patient age and female gender are identified as non-modifiable factors, which 
cause a longer hospitalisation. Postoperative pain therapy can be considered as 
a variable size, which does not affect the length of hospital stay. Modifiable 
factors that increase the overall length of stay, however, are the type of 
direct postoperative monitoring (ICU vs. anaesthetic recovery room) and the 
administration of blood transfusions.
CONCLUSIONS: There are constant factors, which can be associated with a longer 
residence time in the framework of an organ-preserving partial nephrectomy. 
Further there is shown evidence of the independence of the tumour size - in 
addition to proven good oncological results - of an extension of indication of 
organ-preserving nephrectomy of tumours > 4 cm.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-014-3558-5
PMID: 25142788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


115. Clin Res Cardiol. 2015 Jan;104(1):51-8. doi: 10.1007/s00392-014-0756-5. Epub
 2014 Aug 21.

Acute coronary syndromes in octogenarians referred for invasive evaluation: 
treatment profile and outcomes.

Jaguszewski M(1), Ghadri JR, Diekmann J, Bataiosu RD, Hellermann JP, Sarcon A, 
Siddique A, Baumann L, Stähli BE, Lüscher TF, Maier W, Templin C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, University Heart Center, University Hospital 
Zurich, Raemistrasse 100, 8091, Zurich, Switzerland, milosz.jaguszewski@usz.ch.

BACKGROUND: With increasing life expectancy in the western world, the aging 
population will compose a significant portion of the demographic. Notably, 
cardiovascular disease is particularly prevalent in the elderly population. The 
aim of the present study is to investigate the outcomes of octogenarians 
referred for urgent coronary angiography in the setting of acute coronary 
syndromes (ACS).
METHODS: Between June 2007 and June 2012, consecutive patients with ACS were 
referred for evaluation and percutaneous intervention. Subsequently, the 
in-hospital death and major adverse cardiovascular events (MACE) at 30 days were 
analyzed. Multivariate analysis was performed to identify the predictors for 
death and MACE.
RESULTS: In patients ≥80 years (n = 296) ST-segment elevation myocardial 
infarction (STEMI) occurred in 46.6%, non-ST-segment elevation myocardial 
infarction (NSTEMI) in 45.9%, and 7.4% had unstable angina. On the other hand, 
in patients <80 years (n = 2,316) STEMI was observed in 53.4%, NSTEMI in 37.8% 
and unstable angina in 9.0%. The primary end-point of total mortality was 
significantly higher in octogenarians (7.4 vs. 4.5%, p = 0.026). Similarly, the 
secondary end-point comprising overall MACE rate was significantly higher among 
the elderly (12.5 vs. 7.3%, p = 0.002). Within the group of octogenarians, no 
relation between age and outcomes was noted (for death: OR 0.99, 95% CI 
0.84-1.16, p = 0.915; and for MACE: OR 1.10, 95% CI 0.88-1.36, p = 0.412); 
however, in patients <80 years, age was related to outcomes (for death: OR 1.05, 
95% CI, 1.02-1.08, p = 0.003; and for MACE: OR 1.03, 95% CI, 1.01-1.05, p = 
0.011). In a multivariate analysis, systolic blood pressure (OR 0.97 95% CI 
0.94-0.99, p = 0.0058), maximal value of creatine kinase (OR 1.00, 95% CI 
1.00-1.00, p = 0.033), and maximal value of NT-proBNP (OR 1.00, 95% CI 
1.00-1.00, p = 0.0225) were independent predictors for death, while systolic 
blood pressure (OR 0.98, 95% CI 0.96-0.99, p = 0.0384) and maximal value of 
C-reactive protein (OR 1.01, 95% CI 1.00-1.01, p = 0.0265) were associated with 
overall MACE.
CONCLUSIONS: Here we confirm that in-hospital death and MACE rate remain 
significantly elevated in octogenarians in spite of implementation of modern 
therapies. However, our real-world registry strongly suggests that early 
revascularization appears safe and effective in elderly patients. Furthermore, 
we have identified that systolic blood pressure, creatine kinase, NT-proBNP, and 
C-reactive protein are strong predictors for outcomes in octogenarians.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-014-0756-5
PMID: 25142902 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


116. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2015 Aug;70(8):944-9. doi:
10.1093/gerona/glu130.  Epub 2014 Aug 20.

Learning From Leaders: Life-span Trends in Olympians and Supercentenarians.

Antero-Jacquemin Jda S(1), Berthelot G(2), Marck A(2), Noirez P(2), Latouche 
A(3), Toussaint JF(4).

Author information:
(1)Institut de Recherche bioMédicale et d'Epidemiologie du Sport, Institut 
National du Sport de l'Expertise et de la Performance, Paris, France. Université 
Paris Descartes, EA 7329, Sorbonne Paris Cité, France. juliana.antero@insep.fr.
(2)Institut de Recherche bioMédicale et d'Epidemiologie du Sport, Institut 
National du Sport de l'Expertise et de la Performance, Paris, France. Université 
Paris Descartes, EA 7329, Sorbonne Paris Cité, France.
(3)Conservatoire National des Arts et Métiers, Paris, France.
(4)Institut de Recherche bioMédicale et d'Epidemiologie du Sport, Institut 
National du Sport de l'Expertise et de la Performance, Paris, France. Université 
Paris Descartes, EA 7329, Sorbonne Paris Cité, France. Centre d'Investigations 
en Médecine du Sport, Hôtel-Dieu, AP-HP, Paris, France.

Life-span trends progression has worldwide practical implications as it may 
affect the sustainability of modern societies. We aimed to describe the secular 
life-span trends of populations with a propensity to live longer-Olympians and 
supercentenarians-under two hypotheses: an ongoing life-span extension versus a 
biologic "probabilistic barrier" limiting further progression. In a study of 
life-span densities (total number of life durations per birth date), we analyzed 
19,012 Olympians and 1,205 supercentenarians deceased between 1900 and 2013. 
Among most Olympians, we observed a trend toward increased life duration. This 
trend, however, decelerates at advanced ages leveling off with the upper values 
with a perennial gap between Olympians and supercentenarians during the whole 
observation period. Similar tendencies are observed among supercentenarians, and 
over the last years, a plateau attests to a stable longevity pattern among the 
longest-lived humans. The common trends between Olympians and supercentenarians 
indicate similar mortality pressures over both populations that increase with 
age, scenario better explained by a biologic "barrier" forecast.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glu130
PMCID: PMC4493315
PMID: 25143003 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


117. EXOSC3 Pontocerebellar Hypoplasia.

Baas F(1), van Dijk T(1).

In: Adam MP, Feldman J, Mirzaa GM, Pagon RA, Wallace SE, Bean LJH, Gripp KW, 
Amemiya A, editors. GeneReviews(®) [Internet]. Seattle (WA): University of 
Washington, Seattle; 1993–2023.
2014 Aug 21 [updated 2020 Sep 24].

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Genetics, Leiden University Medical Center, Leiden, 
the Netherlands

CLINICAL CHARACTERISTICS: EXOSC3 pontocerebellar hypoplasia (EXOSC3-PCH) is 
characterized by abnormalities in the posterior fossa and degeneration of the 
anterior horn cells. At birth, skeletal muscle weakness manifests as hypotonia 
(sometimes with congenital joint contractures) and poor feeding. In persons with 
prolonged survival, spasticity, dystonia, and seizures become evident. Within 
the first year of life respiratory insufficiency and swallowing difficulties are 
common. Intellectual disability is severe. Life expectancy ranges from a few 
weeks to adolescence. To date, 82 individuals (from 58 families) with EXOSC3-PCH 
have been described.
DIAGNOSIS/TESTING: The diagnosis of EXOSC3-PCH is suspected in children with 
characteristic neuroradiologic and neurologic findings, and is confirmed by the 
presence of biallelic EXOSC3 pathogenic variants identified by molecular genetic 
testing.
MANAGEMENT: Treatment of manifestations: No specific therapy is available. 
Treatment is symptomatic. Contractures and scoliosis are managed by passive or 
active movement and bracing as needed. Aspiration risk and seizures are managed 
in a routine manner. Education is adapted to the level of cognitive abilities. 
Surveillance: Regular examinations to address: growth and nutritional status 
(including problems with feeding and risk of aspiration); respiratory function; 
joint contractures and scoliosis. Observation for and management of epileptic 
seizures.
GENETIC COUNSELING: EXOSC3-PCH is inherited in an autosomal recessive manner. If 
both parents are known to be heterozygous for an EXOSC3 pathogenic variant, each 
sib of an affected individual has at conception a 25% chance of inheriting both 
pathogenic variants and being affected, a 50% chance of inheriting one 
pathogenic variant and being an unaffected carrier, and a 25% chance of 
inheriting both normal alleles. Once the EXOSC3 pathogenic variants have been 
identified in an affected family member, prenatal and preimplantation genetic 
testing are possible.

Copyright © 1993-2023, University of Washington, Seattle. GeneReviews is a 
registered trademark of the University of Washington, Seattle. All rights 
reserved.

PMID: 25144110


118. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 21;9(8):e104811. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104811. 
eCollection 2014.

GlnR negatively regulates the transcription of the alanine dehydrogenase 
encoding gene ald in Amycolatopsis mediterranei U32 under nitrogen limited 
conditions via specific binding to its major transcription initiation site.

Wang Y(1), Li C(2), Duan N(3), Li B(3), Ding XM(2), Yao YF(4), Hu J(3), Zhao 
GP(5), Wang J(6).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, 
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shanghai, China; Department of Microbiology, School of Life Science, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China.
(2)Department of Microbiology, School of Life Science, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, China.
(3)Laboratory of Physical Biology, Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai, China.
(4)Department of Medical Microbiology and Parasitology, School of Medicine, 
Shanghai Jiao Tong University, Shanghai, China.
(5)Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, 
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shanghai, China; Department of Microbiology, School of Life Science, Fudan 
University, Shanghai, China; Department of Microbiology and Li Ka Shing 
Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of Hong Kong, Prince of 
Wales Hospital, Shatin, New Territories, Hong Kong SAR, China.
(6)Laboratory of Synthetic Biology, Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, 
Shanghai Institutes for Biological Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 
Shanghai, China.

Ammonium assimilation is catalyzed by two enzymatic pathways, i.e., glutamine 
synthetase/glutamate synthase (GS/GOGAT) and alanine dehydrogenase (AlaDH) in 
Amycolatopsis mediterranei U32. Under nitrogen-rich conditions, the AlaDH 
pathway is the major route for ammonium assimilation, while the GS/GOGAT pathway 
takes over when the extracellular nitrogen supply is limited. The global 
nitrogen regulator GlnR was previously characterized to activate the 
transcription of the GS encoding gene glnA in response to nitrogen limitation 
and is demonstrated in this study as a repressor for the transcription of the 
AlaDH encoding gene ald, whose regulation is consistent with the switch of the 
ammonium assimilation pathways from AlaDH to GS/GOGAT responding to nitrogen 
limitation. Three transcription initiation sites (TISs) of ald were determined 
with primer extension assay, among which transcription from aldP2 contributed 
the major transcripts under nitrogen-rich conditions but was repressed to an 
undetectable level in response to nitrogen limitation. Through DNase I 
footprinting assay, two separate regions were found to be protected by GlnR 
within ald promoter, within which three GlnR binding sites (a1, b1 sites in 
region I and a2 site in region II) were defined. Interestingly, the major TIS 
aldP2 is located in the middle of a2 site within region II. Therefore, one may 
easily conclude that GlnR represses the transcription of ald via specific 
binding to the GlnR binding sites, which obviously blocks the transcription 
initiation from aldP2 and therefore reduces ald transcripts.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0104811
PMCID: PMC4140684
PMID: 25144373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


119. Inflamm Bowel Dis. 2014 Oct;20(10):1784-93. doi:
10.1097/MIB.0000000000000179.

Two-stage genome-wide methylation profiling in childhood-onset Crohn's Disease 
implicates epigenetic alterations at the VMP1/MIR21 and HLA loci.

Adams AT(1), Kennedy NA, Hansen R, Ventham NT, OʼLeary KR, Drummond HE, Noble 
CL, El-Omar E, Russell RK, Wilson DC, Nimmo ER, Hold GL, Satsangi J.

Author information:
(1)*Gastrointestinal Unit, Centre for Genetics and Experimental Medicine, 
Institute of Genetics and Molecular Medicine, Western General Hospital, 
Edinburgh, United Kingdom; †Gastrointestinal Research Group, Division of Applied 
Medicine, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, United Kingdom; ‡Department of 
Paediatric Gastroenterology, Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Glasgow, United 
Kingdom; and §Paediatric Gastroenterology and Nutrition, Child Life and Health, 
University of Edinburgh, Royal Hospital for Sick Children, Edinburgh, United 
Kingdom.

BACKGROUND: As a result of technological and analytical advances, genome-wide 
characterization of key epigenetic alterations is now feasible in complex 
diseases. We hypothesized that this may provide important insights into 
gene-environmental interactions in Crohn's disease (CD) and is especially 
pertinent to early onset disease.
METHODS: The Illumina 450K platform was applied to assess epigenome-wide 
methylation profiles in circulating leukocyte DNA in discovery and replication 
pediatric CD cohorts and controls. Data were corrected for differential 
leukocyte proportions. Targeted replication was performed in adults using 
pyrosequencing. Methylation changes were correlated with gene expression in 
blood and intestinal mucosa.
RESULTS: We identified 65 individual CpG sites with methylation alterations 
achieving epigenome-wide significance after Bonferroni correction (P < 1.1 × 
10(-7)), and 19 differently methylated regions displaying unidirectional 
methylation change. There was a highly significant enrichment of methylation 
changes around GWAS single nucleotide polymorphisms (P = 3.7 × 10(-7)), notably 
the HLA region and MIR21. Two-locus discriminant analysis in the discovery 
cohort predicted disease in the pediatric replication cohort with high accuracy 
(area under the curve, 0.98). The findings strongly implicate the 
transcriptional start site of MIR21 as a region of extended epigenetic 
alteration, containing the most significant individual probes (P = 1.97 × 
10(-15)) within a GWAS risk locus. In extension studies, we confirmed 
hypomethylation of MIR21 in adults (P = 6.6 × 10(-5), n = 172) and show 
increased mRNA expression in leukocytes (P < 0.005, n = 66) and in the inflamed 
intestine (P = 1.4 × 10(-6), n = 99).
CONCLUSIONS: We demonstrate highly significant and replicable differences in DNA 
methylation in CD, defining the disease-associated epigenome. The data strongly 
implicate known GWAS loci, with compelling evidence implicating MIR21 and the 
HLA region.

DOI: 10.1097/MIB.0000000000000179
PMCID: PMC4736293
PMID: 25144570 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


120. Z Orthop Unfall. 2014 Aug;152(4):358-65. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1382868. Epub
2014  Aug 21.

[The clinical outcome after occipitocervical fusion due to metastases of the 
upper cervical spine: a consecutive case series and a systematic review of the 
literature].

[Article in German]

Kirchner R(1), Himpe B(1), Schweder B(1), Jürgens C(2), Gille JJ(3), 
Faschingbauer M(2).

Author information:
(1)Sektion für Orthopädie, Universitätsklinikum Schleswig-Holstein, Lübeck.
(2)Abteilung für Unfallchirurgie, Orthopädie und Sporttraumatologie, 
Berufsgenossenschaftliches Unfallkrankenhaus Hamburg.
(3)Unfall- und Wiederherstellungschirurgie, BG-Unfallkrankenhaus Hamburg.

BACKGROUND: Increasing incidences of osseous metastatic malignancies and higher 
life expectancy in patients are resulting in a raise of occipitocervical 
metastases. Those patients with infaust prognosis have a significantly reduced 
quality of life. In Germany, between 800 and 1680 new cases per year are 
expected. Treatment algorithms include the evaluation of the general condition, 
the operability of visceral metastases, the tumor localization, the sensitivity 
to chemo-/radiotherapy, the fracture risk and the extent of neurological 
deficits and myelopathies.
MATERIAL/METHODS: A systematic review on clinical studies or case series in 
posterior occipitocervical fusions due to metastases to the craniocervical 
transition yielded nine publications with 48 patients without neurological 
deficit. The mean survival time in the given follow-up was 6.44 months (n = 26; 
SD: 5,28; 95 % CI: 4.3-8.57). When measured, the clinical outcome was improved 
towards the VAS, the DENIS Pain Scale and the quality of life through the 
activities of daily living (ADL). We searched our clinical database for 
occipitocervical stabilizations in patients with craniocervical metastases. The 
prospectively collected data included the preoperative Tokuhashi score, SIN 
score, neurological status, length of hospitalization, perioperative course/loss 
of blood/complication rate, as well as the Karnofsky- index and pain measured by 
VAS preoperatively and in follow-up.
RESULTS: Six patients were treated in this consecutive case series. The median 
age was 72 years (min./max.: 65/82), the average BMI 31.75 (min./max.: 
19.3/38.1). The mean preoperative Karnofsky-index was 35 % (min./max.: 
23.99/46.01; 95 % CI: 8.39) the mean preoperative Tokuhashi-score 7 (min./max.: 
4/10), the mean preoperative VAS7 (min./max.: 4.8/9.2; 95 % CI: 1.68). There 
were no perioperative complications. In the follow-up, one patient showed a 
loosening of the screws in the osteolytic massae laterales and one patient 
suffered from a construct failure after fall.
DISCUSSION: Metastases of the craniocervical transition are rare. The initial 
treatment of instability includes the application of a rigid Miami-J-collar or a 
Halo fixator. The decision for an operative procedure must accurately assess the 
individual patient characteristics to provide him a balanced concept between 
operational risk and clinical benefit. The assessment should be based on the 
life expectation and the expected quality of life in dependency of the 
respective therapeutic concept and its risks. The sole posterior stabilization 
of craniocervical instability through occipitocervical fusion leads to a 
reduction of pain, has a low perioperative risk, and may prevent a 
hospitalization. It is justified for selected patients to receive this treatment 
to help alleviate pain and to improve their quality of life. From our 
experience, rare cases of pain without instability should undergo conservative 
treatment in the first line. Due to the low availability of data on the 
manifestation and the clinical course of craniocervical metastases, there is a 
need for the collection of both the descriptive patient data include the 
radiographic findings as well as the clinical outcome and socio-economic factors 
using appropriate scoring systems.

Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1382868
PMID: 25144845 [Indexed for MEDLINE]121. Oftalmologia. 2014;58(1):15-7.

[When and how we start the treatment in patients with ocular hypertension or in 
glaucoma suspects?].

[Article in Romanian]

Stefan C, Ene L, Coravu CO.

The therapeutic decision should be a collaboration between us the doctor and the 
patient. Patients have different tolerance and education levels, ranging from 
the highly cautious to the careless one. Treatment initiation in glaucoma is 
based on intraocular pressure levels, age, race, life expectancy, family 
history, progression risk, associated pathology. The therapeutic effort is 
aiming to maintain both quality of life and sight, through sustainable costs. 
Now we have the proof that intraocular pressure is just another risk factor 
among many others, lowering-pressure treatment being able to reduce the 
individual risk of progression. Still, only the high-risk ocular hypertension 
will be treated, considering other risk factors. There is a fine line between 
early glaucoma and ocular hypertension, the therapeutic decision and monitoring 
algorithm varying with the individual risk of progression.

PMID: 25145118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


122. Med Decis Making. 2015 Jan;35(1):94-105. doi: 10.1177/0272989X14547915. Epub
 2014 Aug 21.

Societal preferences for distributive justice in the allocation of health care 
resources: a latent class discrete choice experiment.

Skedgel C(1)(2)(3), Wailoo A(1), Akehurst R(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health & Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK 
(CS, AW, RK)
(2)Atlantic Clinical Cancer Research Unit, Capital Health, Halifax, Canada (CS)
(3)Maritime Strategy for Patient-Oriented Research Support Unit, Capital Health, 
Halifax, Canada (CS)

Economic theory suggests that resources should be allocated in a way that 
produces the greatest outputs, on the grounds that maximizing output allows for 
a redistribution that could benefit everyone. In health care, this is known as 
QALY (quality-adjusted life-year) maximization. This justification for QALY 
maximization may not hold, though, as it is difficult to reallocate health. 
Therefore, the allocation of health care should be seen as a matter of 
distributive justice as well as efficiency. A discrete choice experiment was 
undertaken to test consistency with the principles of QALY maximization and to 
quantify the willingness to trade life-year gains for distributive justice. An 
empirical ethics process was used to identify attributes that appeared relevant 
and ethically justified: patient age, severity (decomposed into initial quality 
and life expectancy), final health state, duration of benefit, and 
distributional concerns. Only 3% of respondents maximized QALYs with every 
choice, but scenarios with larger aggregate QALY gains were chosen more often 
and a majority of respondents maximized QALYs in a majority of their choices. 
However, respondents also appeared willing to prioritize smaller gains to 
preferred groups over larger gains to less preferred groups. Marginal analyses 
found a statistically significant preference for younger patients and a wider 
distribution of gains, as well as an aversion to patients with the shortest life 
expectancy or a poor final health state. These results support the existence of 
an equity-efficiency tradeoff and suggest that well-being could be enhanced by 
giving priority to programs that best satisfy societal preferences. Societal 
preferences could be incorporated through the use of explicit equity weights, 
although more research is required before such weights can be used in priority 
setting.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X14547915
PMID: 25145575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


123. BMJ. 2014 Aug 21;349:g5277. doi: 10.1136/bmj.g5277.

Cancer screening in elderly people with limited life expectancy is common in US, 
study finds.

McCarthy M(1).

Author information:
(1)Seattle.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.g5277
PMID: 25145702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Nov;32(11):1043-53. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0204-4.

Some inconsistencies in NICE's consideration of social values.

Paulden M(1), O'Mahony JF, Culyer AJ, McCabe C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Emergency Medicine, University of Alberta, 736 University 
Terrace, 8303 112 St, Edmonton, AB, T6G 2T4, Canada, paulden@ualberta.ca.

Comment in
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Nov;32(11):1039-41.
    Pharmacoeconomics. 2014 Dec;32(12):1249-50.

The UK's National Institute for Health and Care Excellence (NICE) recently 
proposed amendments to its methods for the appraisal of health technologies. 
Previous amendments in 2009 and 2011 placed a greater value on the health of 
patients at the "end of life" and in cases where "treatment effects are both 
substantial in restoring health and sustained over a very long period". Drawing 
lessons from these previous amendments, we critically appraise NICE's proposals. 
The proposals repeal "end of life" considerations but add consideration of the 
"proportional" and "absolute" quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) loss from 
illness. NICE's cost-effectiveness threshold may increase from £20,000 to 
£50,000 per QALY on the basis of these and four other considerations: the 
"certainty of the ICER [incremental cost-effectiveness ratio]"; whether 
health-related quality of life is "inadequately captured"; the "innovative 
nature" of the technology; and "non-health objectives of the NHS". We 
demonstrate that NICE's previous amendments are flawed; they contain logical 
inconsistencies which can result in different values being placed on health 
gains for identical patients, and they do not apply value weights to patients 
bearing the opportunity cost of NICE's recommendations. The proposals retain 
both flaws and are also poorly justified. Applying value weights to patients 
bearing the opportunity cost would lower NICE's threshold, in some cases to 
below £20,000 per QALY. Furthermore, this baseline threshold is higher than 
current estimates of the opportunity cost. NICE's proposed threshold range is 
too high, for empirical and methodological reasons. NICE's proposals will harm 
the health of unidentifiable patients, whilst privileging the identifiable 
beneficiaries of new health technologies.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0204-4
PMID: 25145802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Plant Cell Physiol. 2014 Oct;55(10):1779-92. doi: 10.1093/pcp/pcu110. Epub
2014  Aug 20.

The N-terminal cleavable pre-sequence encoded in the first exon of cystathionine 
γ-synthase contains two different functional domains for chloroplast targeting 
and regulation of gene expression.

Hagiwara-Komoda Y(1), Sugiyama T(2), Yamashita Y(3), Onouchi H(4), Naito S(5).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 060-8589 Japan 
These authors contributed equally to this work. Present address: Graduate School 
of Agricultural and Life Sciences, The University of Tokyo, Tokyo, 113-8657 
Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 060-8589 Japan 
These authors contributed equally to this work. Present address: Chugai 
Pharmaceutical Co., Ltd., API Process Development Department, Tokyo, 115-8543 
Japan.
(3)Graduate School of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 060-8589 Japan 
Graduate School of Life Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 060-0810 Japan.
(4)Graduate School of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 060-8589 Japan.
(5)Graduate School of Agriculture, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 060-8589 Japan 
Graduate School of Life Science, Hokkaido University, Sapporo, 060-0810 Japan 
naito@abs.agr.hokudai.ac.jp.

Chloroplast transit peptide sequences (cTPs) located in the N-terminal region of 
nuclear-encoded chloroplast proteins are essential for their sorting, and are 
generally cleaved from the proteins after their import into the chloroplasts. 
The Arabidopsis thaliana cystathionine γ-synthase (CGS), the first committed 
enzyme of methionine biosynthesis, is a nuclear-encoded chloroplast protein. 
Arabidopsis CGS possesses an N-terminal extension region that is dispensable for 
enzymatic activity. This N-terminal extension contains the cTP and several 
functional domains including an MTO1 region, the cis-element for 
post-transcriptional feedback regulation of CGS1 that codes for CGS. A previous 
report suggested that the cTP cleavage site of CGS is located upstream of the 
MTO1 region. However, the region required for protein sorting has not been 
analyzed. In this study, we carried out functional analyses to elucidate the 
region required for chloroplast targeting by using a chimeric protein, Ex1:GFP, 
in which the CGS1 exon 1 coding region containing the N-terminal extension was 
tagged with green fluorescent protein. The sequence upstream of the MTO1 region 
was responsible for efficient chloroplast targeting and for avoidance of 
missorting to the mitochondria. Our data also showed that the major N-terminus 
of Ex1:GFP is Ala91, which is located immediately downstream of the MTO1 region, 
and the MTO1 region is not retained in the mature Ex1:GFP accumulated in the 
chloroplast. These findings suggest that the N-terminal cleavable pre-sequence 
harbors dual functions in protein sorting and in regulating gene expression. Our 
study highlights the unique properties of Arabidopsis CGS cTP among 
chloroplast-targeted proteins.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Japanese 
Society of Plant Physiologists. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/pcp/pcu110
PMID: 25146485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Sci Total Environ. 2014 Nov 1;497-498:420-429. doi: 
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.07.110. Epub 2014 Aug 19.

Willingness to pay to avoid health risks from road-traffic-related air pollution 
and noise across five countries.

Istamto T(1), Houthuijs D(2), Lebret E(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences (IRAS), Utrecht University, Utrecht, 
Netherlands; National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), 
Bilthoven, Netherlands. Electronic address: tifanny.istamto@rivm.nl.
(2)National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), Bilthoven, 
Netherlands.
(3)Institute for Risk Assessment Sciences (IRAS), Utrecht University, Utrecht, 
Netherlands; National Institute for Public Health and the Environment (RIVM), 
Bilthoven, Netherlands.

We conducted a multi-country study to estimate the perceived economic values of 
traffic-related air pollution and noise health risks within the framework of a 
large European project. We used contingent valuation as a method to assess the 
willingness-to-pay (WTP) for both types of pollutants simultaneously. We asked 
respondents how much they would be willing to pay annually to avoid certain 
health risks from specific pollutants. Three sets of vignettes with different 
levels of information were provided prior to the WTP questions. These vignettes 
described qualitative general health risks, a quantitative single health risk 
related to a pollutant, and a quantitative scenario of combined health risks 
related to a pollutant. The mean WTP estimates to avoid road-traffic air 
pollution effects for the three vignettes were: €130 per person per year (pp/y) 
for general health risks, €80 pp/y for a half year shorter in life expectancy, 
and €330 pp/y to a 50% decrease in road-traffic air pollution. Their medians 
were €40 pp/y, €10 pp/y and €50 pp/y, respectively. The mean WTP estimates to 
avoid road-traffic noise effects for the three vignettes were: €90 pp/y for 
general health risks, €100 pp/y for a 13% increase in severe annoyance, and €320 
pp/y for a combined-risk scenario related to an increase of a noise level from 
50 dB to 65 dB. Their medians were €20 pp/y, €20 pp/y and €50 pp/y, 
respectively. Risk perceptions and attitudes as well as environmental and 
pollutant concerns significantly affected WTP estimates. The observed 
differences in crude WTP estimates between countries changed considerably when 
perception-related variables were included in the WTP regression models. For 
this reason, great care should be taken when performing benefit transfer from 
studies in one country to another.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.07.110
PMID: 25146911 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Diabetes Care. 2014 Sep;37(9):2557-64. doi: 10.2337/dc13-2484.

The lifetime cost of diabetes and its implications for diabetes prevention.

Zhuo X(1), Zhang P(2), Barker L(2), Albright A(2), Thompson TJ(2), Gregg E(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA xzhuo@cdc.gov.
(2)Division of Diabetes Translation, National Center for Chronic Disease 
Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Atlanta, GA.

OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost implications of diabetes prevention, it is 
important to know the lifetime medical cost of people with diabetes relative to 
those without. We derived such estimates using data representative of the U.S. 
national population.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: We aggregated annual medical expenditures from the 
age of diabetes diagnosis to death to determine lifetime medical expenditure. 
Annual medical expenditures were estimated by sex, age at diagnosis, and 
diabetes duration using data from 2006-2009 Medical Expenditure Panel Surveys, 
which were linked to data from 2005-2008 National Health Interview Surveys. We 
combined survival data from published studies with the estimated annual 
expenditures to calculate lifetime spending. We then compared lifetime spending 
for people with diabetes with that for those without diabetes. Future spending 
was discounted at 3% annually.
RESULTS: The discounted excess lifetime medical spending for people with 
diabetes was $124,600 ($211,400 if not discounted), $91,200 ($135,600), $53,800 
($70,200), and $35,900 ($43,900) when diagnosed with diabetes at ages 40, 50, 
60, and 65 years, respectively. Younger age at diagnosis and female sex were 
associated with higher levels of lifetime excess medical spending attributed to 
diabetes.
CONCLUSIONS: Having diabetes is associated with substantially higher lifetime 
medical expenditures despite being associated with reduced life expectancy. If 
prevention costs can be kept sufficiently low, diabetes prevention may lead to a 
reduction in long-term medical costs.

© 2014 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this article as 
long as the work is properly cited, the use is educational and not for profit, 
and the work is not altered.

DOI: 10.2337/dc13-2484
PMID: 25147254 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. PLoS One. 2014 Aug 22;9(8):e105549. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0105549. 
eCollection 2014.

Purification and characterization of Plantaricin ZJ5, a new bacteriocin produced 
by Lactobacillus plantarum ZJ5.

Song DF(1), Zhu MY(2), Gu Q(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory for Food Microbial Technology of Zhejiang Province, Department 
of Biotechnology, Zhejiang Gongshang University, Hangzhou, China; State Key 
Laboratory of Plant Physiology and Biochemistry, College of Life Sciences, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Plant Physiology and Biochemistry, College of Life 
Sciences, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Key Laboratory for Food Microbial Technology of Zhejiang Province, Department 
of Biotechnology, Zhejiang Gongshang University, Hangzhou, China.

The aim of this study is to investigate the antimicrobial potential of 
Lactobacillus plantarum ZJ5, a strain isolated from fermented mustard with a 
broad range of inhibitory activity against both Gram-positive and Gram-negative 
bacteria. Here we present the peptide plantaricin ZJ5 (PZJ5), which is an 
extreme pH and heat-stable. However, it can be digested by pepsin and proteinase 
K. This peptide has strong activity against Staphylococcus aureus. PZJ5 has been 
purified using a multi-step process, including ammonium sulfate precipitation, 
cation-exchange chromatography, hydrophobic interactions and reverse-phase 
chromatography. The molecular mass of the peptide was found to be 2572.9 Da 
using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time-of-flight mass 
spectrometry (MALDI-TOF MS). The primary structure of this peptide was 
determined using amino acid sequencing and DNA sequencing, and these analyses 
revealed that the DNA sequence translated as a 44-residue precursor containing a 
22-amino-acid N-terminal extension that was of the double-glycine type. The 
bacteriocin sequence exhibited no homology with known bacteriocins when compared 
with those available in the database, indicating that it was a new class IId 
bacteriocin. PZJ5 from a food-borne strain may be useful as a promising 
probiotic candidate.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0105549
PMCID: PMC4141769
PMID: 25147943 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


129. J Neurosurg Spine. 2014 Nov;21(5):698-703. doi: 10.3171/2014.7.SPINE131007.
Epub  2014 Aug 22.

Adverse events in emergency oncological spine surgery: a prospective analysis.

Dea N(1), Versteeg A, Fisher C, Kelly A, Hartig D, Boyd M, Paquette S, Kwon BK, 
Dvorak M, Street J.

Author information:
(1)Combined Neurosurgical and Orthopaedic Spine Program, University of British 
Columbia, Vancouver General Hospital, Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada; and.

OBJECT: Most descriptions of spine surgery morbidity and mortality in the 
literature are retrospective. Emerging prospective analyses of adverse events 
(AEs) demonstrate significantly higher rates, suggesting underreporting in 
retrospective and prospective studies that do not include AEs as a targeted 
outcome. Emergency oncological spine surgeries are generally palliative to 
reduce pain and improve patients' neurology and health-related quality of life. 
In individuals with limited life expectancy, AEs can have catastrophic 
implications; therefore, an accurate AE incidence must be considered in the 
surgical decision-making process. The purpose of this study was to determine the 
true incidence of AEs associated with emergency oncological spine surgery.
METHODS: The authors carried out a prospective cohort study in a quaternary care 
referral center that included consecutive patients admitted between January 1, 
2009, and December 31, 2012. Inclusion criteria were all patients undergoing 
emergency surgery for metastatic spine disease. AE data were reported and 
collected on standardized AE forms (Spine AdVerse Events Severity System, 
version 2 [SAVES V2] forms) at weekly dedicated morbidity and mortality rounds 
attended by attending surgeons, residents, fellows, and nursing staff.
RESULTS: A total of 101 patients (50 males, 51 females) met the inclusion 
criteria and had complete data. Seventy-six patients (76.2%) had at least 1 AE, 
and 11 patients (10.9%) died during their admission. Intraoperative surgical AEs 
were observed in 32% of patients (9.9% incidental durotomy, 16.8% blood loss > 2 
L). Transient neurological deterioration occurred in 6 patients (5.9%). 
Infectious complications in this patient population were significant (surgical 
site 6%, other 50.5%). Delirium complicated the postoperative period in 20.8% of 
cases.
CONCLUSIONS: When evaluated in a rigorous prospective manner, metastatic spine 
surgery is associated with a higher morbidity rate than previously reported. 
This AE incidence must be considered by the patient, oncologist, and surgeon to 
determine appropriate management and preventative strategies to reduce AEs in 
this fragile patient population.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.7.SPINE131007
PMID: 25147976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Inform Health Soc Care. 2014 Sep-Dec;39(3-4):166-87. doi: 
10.3109/17538157.2014.931849.

Information and communication technologies for promoting and sustaining quality 
of life, health and self-sufficiency in ageing societies--outcomes of the Lower 
Saxony Research Network Design of Environments for Ageing (GAL).

Haux R(1), Hein A, Kolb G, Künemund H, Eichelberg M, Appell JE, Appelrath HJ, 
Bartsch C, Bauer JM, Becker M, Bente P, Bitzer J, Boll S, Büsching F, Dasenbrock 
L, Deparade R, Depner D, Elbers K, Fachinger U, Felber J, Feldwieser F, Forberg 
A, Gietzelt M, Goetze S, Gövercin M, Helmer A, Herzke T, Hesselmann T, Heuten W, 
Huber R, Hülsken-Giesler M, Jacobs G, Kalbe E, Kerling A, Klingeberg T, Költzsch 
Y, Lammel-Polchau C, Ludwig W, Marschollek M, Martens B, Meis M, Meyer EM, Meyer 
J, Meyer Zu Schwabedissen H, Moritz N, Müller H, Nebel W, Neyer FJ, Okken PK, 
Rahe J, Remmers H, Rölker-Denker L, Schilling M, Schöpke B, Schröder J, Schulze 
GC, Schulze M, Siltmann S, Song B, Spehr J, Steen EE, Steinhagen-Thiessen E, 
Tanschus NM, Tegtbur U, Thiel A, Thoben W, van Hengel P, Wabnik S, Wegel S, 
Wilken O, Winkelbach S, Wist T, Wolf KH, Wolf L, Zokoll-van der Laan M; Lower 
Saxony Research Network GAL.

Collaborators: Kruse A, Handels H, Heinze R, Seitz J, von Renteln-Kruse W, 
Sieber C, Vogel W.

Author information:
(1)Peter L. Reichertz Institute for Medical Informatics, University of 
Braunschweig - Institute of Technology and Hannover Medical School , 
Braunschweig , Germany .

Many societies across the world are confronted with demographic changes, usually 
related to increased life expectancy and, often, relatively low birth rates. 
Information and communication technologies (ICT) may contribute to adequately 
support senior citizens in aging societies with respect to quality of life and 
quality and efficiency of health care processes. For investigating and for 
providing answers on whether new information and communication technologies can 
contribute to keeping, or even improving quality of life, health and 
self-sufficiency in ageing societies through new ways of living and new forms of 
care, the Lower Saxony Research Network Design of Environments for Ageing (GAL) 
had been established as a five years research project, running from 2008 to 
2013. Ambient-assisted living (AAL) technologies in personal and home 
environments were especially important. In this article we report on the GAL 
project, and present some of its major outcomes after five years of research. We 
report on major challenges and lessons learned in running and organizing such a 
large, inter- and multidisciplinary project and discuss GAL in the context of 
related research projects. With respect to research outcomes, we have, for 
example, learned new knowledge about multimodal and speech-based 
human-machine-interaction mechanisms for persons with functional restrictions, 
and identified new methods and developed new algorithms for identifying 
activities of daily life and detecting acute events, particularly falls. A total 
of 79 apartments of senior citizens had been equipped with specific "GAL 
technology", providing new insights into the use of sensor data for smart homes. 
Major challenges we had to face were to deal constructively with GAL's highly 
inter- and multidisciplinary aspects, with respect to research into GAL's 
application scenarios, shifting from theory and lab experimentation to field 
tests, and the complexity of organizing and, in our view, successfully managing 
such a large project. Overall it can be stated that, from our point of view, the 
GAL research network has been run successfully and has achieved its major 
research objectives. Since we now know much more on how and where to use AAL 
technologies for new environments of living and new forms of care, a future 
focus for research can now be outlined for systematically planned studies, 
scientifically exploring the benefits of AAL technologies for senior citizens, 
in particular with respect to quality of life and the quality and efficiency of 
health care.

DOI: 10.3109/17538157.2014.931849
PMID: 25148556 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. Inflammopharmacology. 2014 Oct;22(5):279-93. doi: 10.1007/s10787-014-0215-y.
 Epub 2014 Aug 23.

Rodent animal models: from mild to advanced stages of diabetic nephropathy.

Kaur M(1), Bedi O, Sachdeva S, Reddy BV, Kumar P.

Author information:
(1)Pharmacology Division, Department of Pharmacology, ISF College of Pharmacy, 
Moga, 142001, Punjab, India.

Diabetic nephropathy (DN) is a secondary complication of both type 1 and type 2 
diabetes, resulting from uncontrolled high blood sugar. 30-40% of diabetic 
patients develop DN associated with a poor life expectancy and end-stage renal 
disease, causing serious socioeconomic problems. Although an exact pathogenesis 
of DN is still unknown, several factors such as hyperglycemia, hyperlipidemia, 
hypertension and proteinuria may contribute to the progression of renal damage 
in diabetic nephropathy. DN is confirmed by measuring blood urea nitrogen, serum 
creatinine, creatinine clearance and proteinuria. Clinical studies show that 
intensive control of hyperglycemia and blood pressure could successfully reduce 
proteinuria, which is the main sign of glomerular lesions in DN, and improve the 
renal prognosis in patients with DN. Diabetic rodent models have traditionally 
been used for doing research on pathogenesis and developing novel therapeutic 
strategies, but have limitations for translational research. Diabetes in animal 
models such as rodents are induced either spontaneously or by using chemical, 
surgical, genetic, or other techniques and depicts many clinical features or 
related phenotypes of the disease. This review discusses the merits and demerits 
of the models, which are used for many reasons in the research of diabetes and 
diabetic complications.

DOI: 10.1007/s10787-014-0215-y
PMCID: PMC7101706
PMID: 25149089 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. Prog Mol Biol Transl Sci. 2014;127:29-62. doi: 
10.1016/B978-0-12-394625-6.00002-7.

Mitochondrial DNA mutations in aging.

Khrapko K(1), Turnbull D(2).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
