(2)From the Department of Cardiac Surgery (Y.d., A.J.I.) and Department of 
Cardiology (R.G.W.), Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; 
Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (Y.d., 
A.J.I, J.C.G.); Department of Paediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, The University 
of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (A.J.I., R.G.W.); Department of 
Mathematics & Statistics, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia 
(J.C.G.); Heart Centre for Children, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia (R.G.W., G.F.S., D.S.W.); Department of 
Cardiology, Women's and Children's Hospital, Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia (G.R.W.); Children's Cardiac Centre, Princess Margaret Hospital for 
Children, Perth, Western Australia, Australia (A.B); Paediatric Cardiology, 
Queensland Paediatric Cardiac Service, Mater Children's Hospital, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia (R.N.J.); Department of Cardiology, The Royal Melbourne 
Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (L.E.G.); Paediatric Cardiology 
Services, Monash Heart, Monash Health, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (S.H.); 
Department of Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia (S.H.); Adult 
Congenital Heart Disease Unit, The Prince Charles Hospital, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia (D.J.R.); Green Lane Paediatric and Congenital Cardiac 
Service, Starship Children's Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand (T.L.G.); 
Department of Cardiology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia (D.S.C.); Department of Medicine, The University of Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia (D.S.C.); The University of Notre Dame, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia (V.F.); on behalf of the Australia and New Zealand Fontan 
Registry.

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of patients undergoing a Fontan procedure is 
unknown.
METHODS AND RESULTS: Follow-up of all 1006 survivors of the 1089 patients who 
underwent a Fontan procedure in Australia and New Zealand was obtained from a 
binational population-based registry including all pediatric and adult cardiac 
centers. There were 203 atriopulmonary connections (AP; 1975-1995), 271 lateral 
tunnels (1988-2006), and 532 extracardiac conduits (1997-2010). The proportion 
with hypoplastic left heart syndrome increased from 1/173 (1%) before 1990 to 
80/500 (16%) after 2000. Survival at 10 years was 89% (84%-93%) for AP and 97% 
(95% confidence interval [CI], 94%-99%) for lateral tunnels and extracardiac 
conduits. The longest survival estimate was 76% (95% CI, 67%-82%) at 25 years 
for AP. AP independently predicted worse survival compared with extracardiac 
conduits (hazard ratio, 6.2; P<0.001; 95% CI, 2.4-16.0). Freedom from failure 
(death, transplantation, takedown, conversion to extracardiac conduits, New York 
Heart Association III/IV, or protein-losing enteropathy/plastic bronchitis) 20 
years after Fontan was 70% (95% CI, 63%-76%). Hypoplastic left heart syndrome 
was the primary predictor of Fontan failure (hazard ratio, 3.8; P<0.001; 95% CI, 
2.0-7.1). Ten-year freedom from failure was 79% (95% CI, 61%-89%) for 
hypoplastic left heart syndrome versus 92% (95% CI, 87%-95%) for other 
morphologies.
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term survival of the Australia and New Zealand Fontan 
population is excellent. Patients with an AP Fontan experience survival of 76% 
at 25 years. Technical modifications have further improved survival. Patients 
with hypoplastic left heart syndrome are at higher risk of failure. Large, 
comprehensive registries such as this will further improve our understanding of 
late outcomes after the Fontan procedure.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.007764
PMID: 25200053 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


273. BMJ. 2014 Sep 8;349:g5309. doi: 10.1136/bmj.g5309.

Variation in patients' perceptions of elective percutaneous coronary 
intervention in stable coronary artery disease: cross sectional study.

Kureshi F(1), Jones PG(2), Buchanan DM(3), Abdallah MS(3), Spertus JA(3).

Author information:
(1)Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, Kansas City, MO 64111, USA 
University of Missouri- Kansas City, Kansas City, MO, USA kureshif@umkc.edu.
(2)Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, Kansas City, MO 64111, USA.
(3)Saint Luke's Mid America Heart Institute, Kansas City, MO 64111, USA 
University of Missouri- Kansas City, Kansas City, MO, USA.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2014;349:g6624.
    BMJ. 2014;349:g6629.

OBJECTIVES: To assess the perceptions of patients with stable coronary artery 
disease of the urgency and benefits of elective percutaneous coronary 
intervention and to examine how they vary across centers and by providers.
DESIGN: Cross sectional study.
SETTING: 10 US academic and community hospitals performing percutaneous coronary 
interventions between 2009 and 2011.
PARTICIPANTS: 991 patients with stable coronary artery disease undergoing 
elective percutaneous coronary intervention.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Patients' perceptions of the urgency and benefits of 
percutaneous coronary intervention, assessed by interview. Multilevel 
hierarchical logistic regression models examined the variation in patients' 
understanding across centers and operators after adjusting for patient 
characteristics, using median odds ratios.
RESULTS: The most common reported benefits from percutaneous coronary 
intervention were to extend life (90%, n=892; site range 80-97%) and to prevent 
future heart attacks (88%, n=872; site range 79-97%). Although nearly two thirds 
of patients (n=661) reported improvement of symptoms as a benefit of 
percutaneous coronary intervention (site range 52-87%), only 1% (n=9) identified 
this as the only benefit. Substantial variability was noted in the ways informed 
consent was obtained at each site. After adjusting for patient and operator 
characteristics, the median odds ratios showed significant variation in 
patients' perceptions of percutaneous coronary intervention across sites (range 
1.4-3.1) but not across operators within a site.
CONCLUSION: Patients have a poor understanding of the benefits of elective 
percutaneous coronary intervention, with significant variation across sites. No 
sites had a high proportion of patients accurately understanding the benefits. 
Coupled with the wide variability in the ways in which hospitals obtain informed 
consent, these findings suggest that hospital level interventions into the 
structure and processes of obtaining informed consent for percutaneous coronary 
intervention might improve patient comprehension and understanding.

© Kureshi et al 2014.

DOI: 10.1136/bmj.g5309
PMCID: PMC4157615
PMID: 25200209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: All authors have completed 
the ICMJE uniform disclosure form at www.icmje.org/coi_disclosure.pdf (available 
on request from the corresponding author) and declare: the study was supported 
by an American Heart Association Outcomes Research Center grant (0875149N) and 
the National Heart Lung and Blood Institute (R01-HL096624) (although the grants 
supported different aims, they employed the same patient population, study 
design, and data collection, and were combined for the purpose of these 
analyses); no financial relationships with any organizations that might have an 
interest in the submitted work in the previous three years; no other 
relationships or activities that could appear to have influenced the submitted 
work.


274. Aust Health Rev. 2014 Nov;38(5):552-6. doi: 10.1071/AH13211.

Implementing a working together model for Aboriginal patients with acute 
coronary syndrome: an Aboriginal Hospital Liaison Officer and a specialist 
cardiac nurse working together to improve hospital care.

Daws K(1), Punch A(1), Winters M(1), Posenelli S(1), Willis J(1), MacIsaac A(1), 
Rahman MA(2), Worrall-Carter L(2).

Author information:
(1)St Vincent's Hospital, Melbourne, Vic., Australia. Email: ; ; ; ;
(2)St Vincent's Centre for Nursing Research (SVCNR), Australian Catholic 
University, Melbourne, Vic., Australia. Email: ;

Acute coronary syndrome (ACS) contributes to the disparity in life expectancy 
between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians. Improving hospital care for 
Aboriginal patients has been identified as a means of addressing this disparity. 
This project developed and implemented a working together model of care, 
comprising an Aboriginal Hospital Liaison Officer and a specialist cardiac 
nurse, providing care coordination specifically directed at improving attendance 
at cardiac rehabilitation services for Aboriginal Australians in a large 
metropolitan hospital in Melbourne. A quality improvement framework using a 
retrospective case notes audit evaluated Aboriginal patients' admissions to 
hospital and identified low attendance rates at cardiac rehabilitation services. 
A working together model of care coordination by an Aboriginal Hospital Liaison 
Officer and a specialist cardiac nurse was implemented to improve cardiac 
rehabilitation attendance in Aboriginal patients admitted with ACS to the 
cardiac wards of the hospital. A retrospective medical records audit showed that 
there were 68 Aboriginal patients admitted to the cardiac wards with ACS from 1 
July 2008 to 30 June 2011. A referral to cardiac rehabilitation was recorded for 
42% of these. During the implementation of the model of care, 13 of 15 patients 
(86%) received a referral to cardiac rehabilitation and eight of the 13 (62%) 
attended. Implementation of the working together model demonstrated improved 
referral to and attendance at cardiac rehabilitation services, thereby, has 
potential to prevent complications and mortality. WHAT IS KNOWN ABOUT THE 
TOPIC?: Aboriginal Australians experience disparities in access to recommended 
care for acute coronary syndrome. This may contribute to the life expectancy gap 
between Aboriginal and non-Aboriginal Australians. WHAT DOES THIS PAPER ADD?: 
This paper describes a model of care involving an Aboriginal Hospital Liaisons 
Officer and a specialist cardiac nurse working together to improve hospital care 
and attendance at cardiac rehabilitation services for Aboriginal Australians 
with acute coronary syndrome. WHAT ARE THE IMPLICATIONS FOR PRACTITIONERS?: The 
working together model of care could be implemented across mainstream health 
services where Aboriginal people attend for specialist care.

DOI: 10.1071/AH13211
PMID: 25200319 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


275. Health Aff (Millwood). 2014 Sep;33(9):1620-6. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2014.0383.

Antimicrobial resistance: addressing the global threat through greater awareness 
and transformative action.

Keown OP(1), Warburton W(2), Davies SC(3), Darzi A(4).

Author information:
(1)Oliver P. Keown (o.keown@imperial.ac.uk) is a clinical adviser and policy 
fellow at the Centre for Health Policy, Institute of Global Health Innovation, 
Imperial College London, in the United Kingdom.
(2)Will Warburton is forum director, World Innovation Summit for Health, Qatar 
Foundation, and a senior policy fellow at the Centre for Health Policy, 
Institute of Global Health Innovation, Imperial College London.
(3)Sally C. Davies is chair of the Forum on Antimicrobial Resistance at the 
World Innovation Summit for Health, Qatar Foundation, and chief medical officer 
for England and chief medical adviser and chief scientific adviser for 
the Department of Health, in London.
(4)Ara Darzi is executive chair of the World Innovation Summit for Health, Qatar 
Foundation, and director of the Institute of Global Health Innovation, Imperial 
College London.

Antimicrobial therapies have played an unquestionably important role in 
advancing modern medical and surgical care, treating animals, reducing the 
global burden of communicable disease, and prolonging human life expectancy. 
These transformational benefits are threatened because of the rapidly advancing 
phenomenon of antimicrobial resistance. As a result of complex factors across 
many sectors and international actors, the global impact of antimicrobial 
resistance is an escalating economic and health crisis. This article draws on 
the collective expertise and summit report of the Antimicrobial Resistance 
Working Group from the 2013 World Innovation Summit for Health, in Doha, Qatar. 
It defines a framework of principles and tasks for key policy makers to raise 
international awareness of antimicrobial resistance and lead transformative 
action through policy-driven improvements in sanitation, antimicrobial 
conservation, agricultural practices, and research and development.

Project HOPE—The People-to-People Health Foundation, Inc.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2014.0383
PMID: 25201667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


276. Front Psychiatry. 2014 Aug 25;5:98. doi: 10.3389/fpsyt.2014.00098.
eCollection  2014.

Integrated neurobiology of bipolar disorder.

Maletic V(1), Raison C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neuropsychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of South 
Carolina School of Medicine , Columbia, SC , USA.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, University of Arizona , Tucson, AZ , USA ; Norton 
School of Family and Consumer Sciences, College of Agriculture and Life 
Sciences, University of Arizona , Tucson, AZ , USA.

From a neurobiological perspective there is no such thing as bipolar disorder. 
Rather, it is almost certainly the case that many somewhat similar, but subtly 
different, pathological conditions produce a disease state that we currently 
diagnose as bipolarity. This heterogeneity - reflected in the lack of synergy 
between our current diagnostic schema and our rapidly advancing scientific 
understanding of the condition - limits attempts to articulate an integrated 
perspective on bipolar disorder. However, despite these challenges, scientific 
findings in recent years are beginning to offer a provisional "unified field 
theory" of the disease. This theory sees bipolar disorder as a suite of related 
neurodevelopmental conditions with interconnected functional abnormalities that 
often appear early in life and worsen over time. In addition to accelerated loss 
of volume in brain areas known to be essential for mood regulation and cognitive 
function, consistent findings have emerged at a cellular level, providing 
evidence that bipolar disorder is reliably associated with dysregulation of 
glial-neuronal interactions. Among these glial elements are microglia - the 
brain's primary immune elements, which appear to be overactive in the context of 
bipolarity. Multiple studies now indicate that inflammation is also increased in 
the periphery of the body in both the depressive and manic phases of the 
illness, with at least some return to normality in the euthymic state. These 
findings are consistent with changes in the hypothalamic-pituitary-adrenal axis, 
which are known to drive inflammatory activation. In summary, the very fact that 
no single gene, pathway, or brain abnormality is likely to ever account for the 
condition is itself an extremely important first step in better articulating an 
integrated perspective on both its ontological status and pathogenesis. Whether 
this perspective will translate into the discovery of innumerable more 
homogeneous forms of bipolarity is one of the great questions facing the field 
and one that is likely to have profound treatment implications, given that fact 
that such a discovery would greatly increase our ability to individualize - and 
by extension, enhance - treatment.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyt.2014.00098
PMCID: PMC4142322
PMID: 25202283


277. Oncol Lett. 2014 Oct;8(4):1447-1454. doi: 10.3892/ol.2014.2392. Epub 2014
Jul  30.

Phospho-mTOR in non-tumour and tumour bladder urothelium: Pattern of expression 
and impact on urothelial bladder cancer patients.

Afonso J(1), Longatto-Filho A(2), DA Silva VM(3), Amaro T(4), Santos LL(5).

Author information:
(1)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Healh Sciences 
(ECS) University of Minho, Braga 4710-057, Portugal ; ICVS/3B's, PT Government 
Associate Laboratory, Braga 4710-057/Guimarães 4806-909, Portugal.
(2)Life and Health Sciences Research Institute (ICVS), School of Healh Sciences 
(ECS) University of Minho, Braga 4710-057, Portugal ; ICVS/3B's, PT Government 
Associate Laboratory, Braga 4710-057/Guimarães 4806-909, Portugal ; Laboratory 
of Medical Investigation (LIM 14), Faculty of Medicine, São Paulo State 
University, São Paulo 01246-000, Brazil ; Molecular Oncology Research Center, 
Barretos Cancer Hospital, Barretos, São Paulo 14784-400, Brazil.
(3)Department of Urology, Portuguese Institute of Oncology (IPO), Porto 
4200-072, Portugal.
(4)Experimental Pathology and Therapeutics Research Center, Portuguese Institute 
of Oncology (IPO), Porto 4200-072, Portugal.
(5)Department of Surgical Oncology, Portuguese Institute of Oncology (IPO), 
Porto 4200-072, Portugal ; Faculty of Health Sciences, University Fernando 
Pessoa, Porto 4200-150, Portugal.

Urothelial bladder carcinoma (UBC) is heterogeneous in its pathology and 
clinical behaviour. Evaluation of prognostic and predictive biomarkers is 
necessary, in order to produce personalised treatment options. The present study 
used immunohistochemistry to evaluate UBC sections containing tumour and 
non-tumour areas from 76 patients, for the detection of p-mTOR, CD31 and D2-40 
(blood and lymphatic vessels identification, respectively). Of the non-tumour 
and tumour sections, 36 and 20% were scored positive for p-mTOR expression, 
respectively. Immunoexpression was observed in umbrella cells from non-tumour 
urothelium, in all cell layers from non-muscle-invasive (NMI) tumours (including 
expression in superficial cells), and in spots of cells from muscle-invasive 
(MI) tumours. Positive expression decreased from non-tumour to tumour 
urothelium, and from pT1/pTis to pT3/pT4 tumours; however, the few pT3/pT4 
positive cases had worse survival rates, with 5-year disease-free survival being 
significantly lower. Angiogenesis occurrence was impaired in pT3/pT4 tumours 
that did not express p-mTOR. In conclusion, p-mTOR expression in non-tumour 
umbrella cells is likely a reflection of their metabolic plasticity, and 
extension to the inner layers of the urothelium in NMI tumours is consistent 
with an enhanced malignant potential. The expression in cell spots in a few MI 
tumours and absence of expression in the remaining tumours is intriguing and 
requires further research. Additional studies regarding the up- and downstream 
effectors of the mTOR pathway should be conducted.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2014.2392
PMCID: PMC4156165
PMID: 25202348


278. JAMA. 2014 Sep 10;312(10):997-8. doi: 10.1001/jama.2014.9655.

Potential overdiagnosis of basal cell carcinoma in older patients with limited 
life expectancy.

Linos E(1), Schroeder SA(2), Chren MM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology, University of California, San Francisco.
(2)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University of California, San 
Francisco3Dermatology Service, San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, 
San Francisco, California.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2014.9655
PMID: 25203077 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


279. Radiology. 2015 Jan;274(1):181-91. doi: 10.1148/radiol.14122681. Epub 2014
Sep  8.

MR-guided prostate biopsy for planning of focal salvage after radiation therapy.

Ménard C(1), Iupati D, Publicover J, Lee J, Abed J, O'Leary G, Simeonov A, Foltz 
WD, Milosevic M, Catton C, Morton G, Bristow R, Bayley A, Atenafu EG, Evans AJ, 
Jaffray DA, Chung P, Brock KK, Haider MA.

Author information:
(1)From the Radiation Medicine Program (C.M., D.I., J.P., J.L., J.A., A.S., 
W.D.F., M.M., C.C., R.B., A.B., D.A.J., P.C., K.K.B.) and Department of 
Biostatistics (E.G.A.), Princess Margaret Cancer Centre, 610 University Ave, 
Room 5-809, Toronto, ON, Canada M4X 1C3; Department of Radiation Oncology, 
University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (C.M., D.I., A.S., M.M., C.C., 
G.M., R.B., A.B., D.A.J., P.C., K.K.B.); Department of Radiation Oncology, 
Wellington Cancer Centre, Wellington, New Zealand (D.I.), Departments of 
Anesthesia (G.O.) and Pathology (A.J.E.), University Health Network, University 
of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada; Department of Radiation Oncology, Odette 
Cancer Center, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (G.M.); Department of Radiation 
Oncology, Wellington Cancer Centre, Wellington, New Zealand (D.I.); and Joint 
Department of Medical Imaging, University Health Network and Mount Sinai 
Hospital, University of Toronto, Toronto, Ontario, Canada (M.A.H.).

PURPOSE: To determine if the integration of diagnostic magnetic resonance (MR) 
imaging and MR-guided biopsy would improve target delineation for focal salvage 
therapy in men with prostate cancer.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Between September 2008 and March 2011, 30 men with 
biochemical failure after radiation therapy for prostate cancer provided written 
informed consent and were enrolled in a prospective clinical trial approved by 
the institutional research ethics board. An integrated diagnostic MR imaging and 
interventional biopsy procedure was performed with a 1.5-T MR imager by using a 
prototype table and stereotactic transperineal template. Multiparametric MR 
imaging (T2-weighted, dynamic contrast material-enhanced, and diffusion-weighted 
sequences) was followed by targeted biopsy of suspicious regions and systematic 
sextant sampling. Biopsy needle locations were imaged and registered to 
diagnostic images. Two observers blinded to clinical data and the results of 
prior imaging studies delineated tumor boundaries. Area under the receiver 
operating characteristic curve (Az) was calculated based on generalized linear 
models by using biopsy as the reference standard to distinguish benign from 
malignant lesions.
RESULTS: Twenty-eight patients were analyzed. Most patients (n = 22) had local 
recurrence, with 82% (18 of 22) having unifocal disease. When multiparametric 
volumes from two observers were combined, it increased the apparent overall 
tumor volume by 30%; however, volumes remained small (mean, 2.9 mL; range, 
0.5-8.3 mL). Tumor target boundaries differed between T2-weighted, dynamic 
contrast-enhanced, and diffusion-weighted sequences (mean Dice coefficient, 
0.13-0.35). Diagnostic accuracy in the identification of tumors improved with a 
multiparametric approach versus a strictly T2-weighted or dynamic 
contrast-enhanced approach through an improvement in sensitivity (observer 1, 
0.65 vs 0.35 and 0.44, respectively; observer 2, 0.82 vs 0.64 and 0.53, 
respectively; P < .05) and improved further with a 5-mm expansion margin (Az = 
0.85 vs 0.91 for observer 2). After excluding three patients with fewer than six 
informative biopsy cores and six patients with inadequately stained margins, 
MR-guided biopsy enabled more accurate delineation of the tumor target volume be 
means of exclusion of false-positive results in 26% (five of 19 patients), 
false-negative results in 11% (two of 19 patients) and by guiding extension of 
tumor boundaries in 16% (three of 19 patients).
CONCLUSION: The integration of guided biopsy with diagnostic MR imaging is 
feasible and alters delineation of the tumor target boundary in a substantial 
proportion of patients considering focal salvage.

DOI: 10.1148/radiol.14122681
PMID: 25203127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


280. Curr Opin Urol. 2014 Nov;24(6):578-85. doi: 10.1097/MOU.0000000000000116.

Management of the incontinent patient with a sphincteric stricture following 
radical prostatectomy.

Cox A(1), Herschorn S.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Urology, Dalhousie University, Victoria General Hospital, 
Halifax, Nova Scotia bDivision of Urology, Department of Surgery, University of 
Toronto, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: The 5-year and 15-year life expectancy following the 
treatment of localized prostate cancer is excellent. Patients may develop rare 
but devastating complications following the surgery for prostate cancer. The 
purpose of this review is to summarize the available literature to date 
surrounding the management of the incontinent patient with a concomitant bladder 
neck contracture (BNC), or sphincteric stricture, following radical 
prostatectomy.
RECENT FINDINGS: The literature consists of several case series, but no clinical 
trials exist to provide an evidence-based approach to the incontinent patient 
with concomitant BNC. Fortunately, this is a relatively rare clinical scenario 
and most cases are successfully managed with urethral dilatation or endoscopic 
techniques. Multiple endoscopic techniques are available. In addition, some 
authors include injectable agents in their armamentarium for the treatment of 
BNC. Open reconstructive techniques or permanent urinary diversion may be 
necessary in rare cases. Both male slings and artificial urinary sphincter may 
be considered for the management of concomitant urinary incontinence. Some 
authors suggest it is safe to proceed with simultaneous artificial urinary 
sphincter implantation at the time of endoscopic management of the BNC.
SUMMARY: Management of the incontinent patient with concomitant BNC represents a 
challenging situation for the urologist. Several techniques are available to 
stabilize the BNC before safely proceeding with surgery for urinary 
incontinence. For the rare, complex case that has failed endoscopic management, 
referral to a surgeon experienced in reconstructive techniques is warranted.

DOI: 10.1097/MOU.0000000000000116
PMID: 25203243 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


281. Micron. 2015 Jan;68:8-16. doi: 10.1016/j.micron.2014.08.004. Epub 2014 Aug
20.

Mitochondrial and peroxisomal population in post-pharyngeal glands of 
leaf-cutting ants after lipid supplementation.

Vieira AS(1), Bueno OC(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biosciences, UNESP - Sao Paulo State Univerisity, Campus Rio 
Claro -SP, Brazil, Center for the Studies of Social Insects. Electronic address: 
alexsvieira@yahoo.com.br.
(2)Institute of Biosciences, UNESP - Sao Paulo State Univerisity, Campus Rio 
Claro -SP, Brazil, Center for the Studies of Social Insects.

The post-pharyngeal gland (PPG) occurs in ants and some Sphecidae wasps. Among 
its several roles is the storage of lipids from food. In order to investigate 
the effect of lipids on the cell, especially on mitochondria and peroxisomes, 
the present study was aimed at examining the peroxisomal and mitochondrial 
population in the PPG of Atta sexdens rubropilosa after lipid supplementation by 
confocal laser scanning microscopy and transmission electron microscopy. Soybean 
oil provided as lipid supplement was not toxic for A. sexdens rubropilosa 
workers for the first 48 h and 120 h. However, the ultrastructural cytochemical 
analysis revealed an accumulation of lipid droplets in the PPGs of ants after 
lipid supplementation at 48 h and 120 h, and smaller lipid droplets in the basal 
membrane of the PPG epithelium, showing lipid mobilization from the PPG to the 
hemolymph. The lipid supplementation reduces the life expectancy of medium 
workers, probably due to the high lipid metabolism. Most importantly, the PPGs 
of medium workers of leaf-cutting A. sexdens rubropilosa is probably a 
specialized gland in the lipid metabolism, due to the increased mitochondrial 
and peroxisomal population inside cells after lipid supplementation; 
participation of peroxisomal population in the β-oxidation of long chain fatty 
acids into smaller chains and participation of mitochondrial population in the 
β-oxidation of fatty acids for energy, or mobilization of lipid derivatives from 
the PPG to hemolymph, a process that requires energy. However, the hypothesis 
that the PPGs convert lipids from food in aldehydes and/or hydrocarbons must be 
better investigated.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.micron.2014.08.004
PMID: 25203360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


282. Int J Sports Physiol Perform. 2015 Apr;10(3):325-31. doi: 
10.1123/ijspp.2014-0088. Epub 2014 Sep 5.

Angle-specific eccentric hamstring fatigue after simulated soccer.

Cohen DD(1), Zhao B, Okwera B, Matthews MJ, Delextrat A.

Author information:
(1)Masira Institute, Faculty of Life Sciences, Universidad de Santander (UDES), 
Bucaramanga, Colombia.

PURPOSE: To evaluate the effect of simulated soccer on the hamstrings eccentric 
torque-angle profile and angle of peak torque (APTeccH), and on the 
hamstrings:quadriceps torque ratio at specific joint angles (ASHecc:Qcon).
METHODS: The authors assessed dominant-limb isokinetic concentric and eccentric 
knee flexion and concentric knee extension at 120°/s in 9 semiprofessional male 
soccer players immediately before and after they completed the Loughborough 
Intermittent Shuttle Test (LIST).
RESULTS: The LIST resulted in significant decreases in eccentric hamstrings 
torque at 60°, 50°, and 10° and a significant (21.8%) decrease in ASHecc:Qcon at 
10° (P < .05). APTeccH increased from 7.1° ± 1.0° to 18.8° ± 4.2° (P < .05). 
Eccentric hamstrings peak torque significantly declined from 185.1 ± 70.4 N·m 
pre-LIST to 150.9 ± 58.5 N·m post-LIST (P = .002), but there were no significant 
changes in hamstrings or quadriceps concentric peak torque (P = .312, .169, 
respectively).
CONCLUSIONS: Simulated soccer results in a selective loss of eccentric 
hamstrings torque and hamstrings-to-quadriceps muscle balance at an extended 
joint position and a shift in the eccentric hamstrings APT to a shorter length, 
changes that could increase vulnerability to hamstrings injury. These findings 
suggest that injury-risk screening could be improved by evaluating the eccentric 
hamstrings torque-angle profile and hamstrings strength-endurance and that the 
development of hamstrings fatigue resistance and long-length eccentric strength 
may reduce injury incidence.

DOI: 10.1123/ijspp.2014-0088
PMID: 25203540 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


283. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 9;9(9):e107225. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107225. 
eCollection 2014.

Evaluating the cost-effectiveness of lifestyle modification versus metformin 
therapy for the prevention of diabetes in Singapore.

Png ME(1), Yoong JS(1).

Author information:
(1)National University of Singapore, Saw Swee Hock School of Public Health, 
Singapore, Singapore.

Erratum in
    PLoS One. 2015;10(3):e0120831.

BACKGROUND: In Singapore, as diabetes is an increasingly important public health 
issue, the cost-effectiveness of pursuing lifestyle modification programs and/or 
alternative prevention strategies is of critical importance for policymakers. 
While the US Diabetes Prevention Program (DPP) compared weight loss through 
lifestyle modification with oral treatment of diabetes drug metformin to 
prevent/delay the onset of type 2 diabetes in pre-diabetic subjects, no data on 
either the actual or potential cost effectiveness of such a program is available 
for East or South-east Asian populations. This study estimates the 3-year 
cost-effectiveness of lifestyle modification and metformin among pre-diabetic 
subjects from a Singapore health system and societal perspective.
METHODOLOGY: Cost effectiveness was analysed from 2010-2012 using a 
decision-based model to estimate the rates of getting diabetes, healthcare costs 
and health-related quality of life. Cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) 
was estimated using costs relevant to the time horizon of the study from 
Singapore. All costs are expressed in 2012 US dollars.
PRINCIPAL FINDINGS: The total economic cost for non-diabetic subjects from the 
societal perspective was US$25,867, US$28,108 and US$26,177 for placebo, 
lifestyle modification and metformin intervention respectively. For diabetic 
patients, the total economic cost from the societal perspective was US$32,921, 
US$35,163 and US$33,232 for placebo, lifestyle modification and metformin 
intervention respectively. Lifestyle modification relative to placebo is likely 
to be associated with an incremental cost per QALY gained at US$36,663 while 
that of metformin intervention is likely to be US$6,367 from a societal 
perspective.
CONCLUSION: Based on adaptation of the DPP data to local conditions, both 
lifestyle modification and metformin intervention are likely to be 
cost-effective and worth implementing in Singapore to prevent or delay the onset 
of type 2 diabetes. However, the cost of lifestyle modification from the 
societal perspective would have to be reduced in order to match the 
cost-effectiveness of metformin intervention.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107225
PMCID: PMC4159303
PMID: 25203633 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


284. Bull Soc Pathol Exot. 2014 Oct;107(4):222-9. doi: 10.1007/s13149-014-0392-3.
 Epub 2014 Sep 9.

[Long-term impact of antiretroviral therapy in Africa: current knowledge].

[Article in French]

Taverne B(1), Desclaux A, Delaporte E, Ndoye I.

Author information:
(1)UMI 233 de l'Institut de recherche pour le développement (IRD)/Université 
Montpellier 1, Montpellier, France, Bernard.Taverne@ird.fr.

By the end of 2013, 11 million PLHIV were taking ARVs in Africa; application of 
the WHO recommendation to initiate treatment earlier (at CD4 count of 500 
cells/mm3 or less) should further increase this number. Currently, twothirds of 
patients in Africa have been on treatment for less than five years, and less 
than 10% have received treatment for eight years or more. Given the historical 
perspective is in its early stages, the long-term impact of ARV therapy is still 
unclear. This article reviews the knowledge gained over the period marking the 
first ten years of implementation of the universal access strategy (2003-2013) 
in Africa, through a review of the literature documenting the long-term 
consequence of ARV treatment, focusing on medical care for adults with an 
emphasis on the patient-centered approach. The goal is to understand the 
interrelationships between biological and social factors and individual and 
collective aspects that affect the lives of PLHIV and determine the impacts of 
ARV treatment over the long term. The biomedical and social factors are 
addressed successively, based on the most significant results. Key knowledge on 
the long-term outcomes for PLHIVon ARV treatment offers vital information on the 
necessary conditions and adaptations for care systems needed to ensure the 
benefits of treatment endure over time.

DOI: 10.1007/s13149-014-0392-3
PMID: 25204573 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


285. Nat Commun. 2014 Sep 10;5:4868. doi: 10.1038/ncomms5868.

Duplication of a promiscuous transcription factor drives the emergence of a new 
regulatory network.

Pougach K(1), Voet A(2), Kondrashov FA(3), Voordeckers K(1), Christiaens JF(1), 
Baying B(4), Benes V(4), Sakai R(5), Aerts J(5), Zhu B(1), Van Dijck P(6), 
Verstrepen KJ(1).

Author information:
(1)1] Laboratory for Genetics and Genomics, Department M2S, Centre of Microbial 
and Plant Genetics (CMPG), KU Leuven, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium [2] Laboratory for 
Systems biology, Vlaams Instituut voor Biotechnologie (VIB), B-3001 Leuven, 
Belgium.
(2)Structural Bioinformatics, Center for Life Science Technologies (CLST), 
RIKEN, 230-0045 Yokohama, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Evolutionary Genomics, Centre for genomic regulation (CRG), 
08003 Barcelona, Spain.
(4)Genomics Core Facility, European Molecular Biology Laboratory Heidelberg 
(EMBL), 69117 Heidelberg, Germany.
(5)1] Department of Electrical Engineering, STADIUS Center for Dynamical 
Systems, Signal Processing and Data Analytics, KU Leuven, B-3001 Leuven, Belgium 
[2] iMinds Medical Information Technologies Department, KU Leuven, B-3001 
Leuven, Belgium.
(6)1] Molecular Microbiology and Biotechnology Section, KU Leuven, B-3001 
Leuven, Belgium [2] Department of Molecular Microbiology, VIB, B-3001 Leuven, 
Belgium.

Erratum in
    Nat Commun. 2015;6:6543.

The emergence of new genes throughout evolution requires rewiring and extension 
of regulatory networks. However, the molecular details of how the 
transcriptional regulation of new gene copies evolves remain largely unexplored. 
Here we show how duplication of a transcription factor gene allowed the 
emergence of two independent regulatory circuits. Interestingly, the ancestral 
transcription factor was promiscuous and could bind different motifs in its 
target promoters. After duplication, one paralogue evolved increased binding 
specificity so that it only binds one type of motif, whereas the other copy 
evolved a decreased activity so that it only activates promoters that contain 
multiple binding sites. Interestingly, only a few mutations in both the 
DNA-binding domains and in the promoter binding sites were required to gradually 
disentangle the two networks. These results reveal how duplication of a 
promiscuous transcription factor followed by concerted cis and trans mutations 
allows expansion of a regulatory network.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms5868
PMCID: PMC4172970
PMID: 25204769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


286. Psychiatry Clin Neurosci. 2015 Jun;69(6):335-43. doi: 10.1111/pcn.12237.
Epub  2014 Oct 17.

Cost-effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia comorbid with 
depression: Analysis of a randomized controlled trial.

Watanabe N(1)(2), Furukawa TA(3), Shimodera S(4), Katsuki F(5), Fujita H(4), 
Sasaki M(6), Sado M(7), Perlis ML(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Epidemiology, Translational Medical Center, National 
Center of Neurology and Psychiatry, Tokyo, Japan.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Cognitive-Behavioral Medicine, Nagoya City 
University Graduate School of Medical Sciences, Aichi, Japan.
(3)Departments of Health Promotion and Human Behavior and of Clinical 
Epidemiology, Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine/School of Public 
Health, Kyoto, Japan.
(4)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Kochi Medical School, Kochi University, Kochi, 
Japan.
(5)Department of Psychiatric and Mental Health Nursing, Nagoya City University 
School of Nursing, Aichi, Japan.
(6)Health Care Center, Japan Advanced Institute of Science and Technology, 
Ishikawa, Japan.
(7)Department of Neuropsychiatry, Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, 
Japan.
(8)Behavioral Sleep Medicine Program, Department of Psychiatry, University of 
Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, USA.

AIM: Although the efficacy of cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia has been 
confirmed, dissemination depends on the balance of benefits and costs. This 
study aimed to examine the cost-effectiveness of cognitive behavioral therapy 
for insomnia consisting of four weekly individual sessions.
METHODS: We conducted a 4-week randomized controlled trial with a 4-week follow 
up in outpatient clinics in Japan. Thirty-seven patients diagnosed as having 
major depressive disorder according to DSM-IV and suffering from chronic 
insomnia were randomized to receive either treatment as usual (TAU) alone or TAU 
plus cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia. Effectiveness was evaluated as 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) over 8 weeks' time, estimated by 
bootstrapping of the observed total scores of the Hamilton Depression Rating 
Scale. Direct medical costs for cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia and 
TAU were also evaluated. We calculated the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio.
RESULTS: Over the 8 weeks of the study, the group receiving cognitive behavioral 
therapy for insomnia plus TAU had significantly higher QALY (P = 0.002) than the 
TAU-alone group with an incremental value of 0.019 (SD 0.006), and had 
non-significantly higher costs with an incremental value of 254 (SD 203) USD in 
direct costs. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was 13 678 USD (95% 
confidence interval: -5691 to 71 316). Adding cognitive behavioral therapy for 
insomnia demonstrated an approximately 95% chance of gaining one more QALY if a 
decision-maker was willing to pay 60 000 USD, and approximately 90% for 40 000 
USD.
CONCLUSION: Adding cognitive behavioral therapy for insomnia is highly likely to 
be cost-effective for patients with residual insomnia and concomitant 
depression.

© 2014 The Authors. Psychiatry and Clinical Neurosciences © 2014 Japanese 
Society of Psychiatry and Neurology.

DOI: 10.1111/pcn.12237
PMID: 25205008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


287. J Cell Physiol. 2015 Feb;230(2):272-7. doi: 10.1002/jcp.24806.

Review: Cell Dynamics in Malignant Pleural Effusions.

Giarnieri E(1), Bellipanni G(2), Macaluso M(2), Mancini R(1), Holstein AC(2), 
Milanese C(2), Giovagnoli MR(1), Giordano A(2)(3)(4), Russo G(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical and Molecular Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and 
Psychology, University La Sapienza, Rome, Italy.
(2)Sbarro Institute for Cancer Research and Molecular Medicine, College of 
Science and Technology, Temple University, BioLife Science Bldg., Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.
(3)INT-CROM, "Pascale Foundation" National Cancer Institute-Cancer Research 
Center, Mercogliano (AV), Italy.
(4)Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences and Neurosciences, University of 
Siena, Siena, Italy.

Malignant pleural effusions (MPEs) are a common manifestation found in patients 
with lung cancer. After cytological and histological confirmation of malignancy, 
talc pleurodesis still remains the treatment of choice in patients with MPEs 
resistant to chemotherapy. Despite this, primary challenges include reduced 
quality of life and life expectancy in general. Therefore, a better 
understanding of the cell biology of MPEs, along with improvements in treatment 
is greatly needed. It has recently been demonstrated that MPEs may represent an 
excellent source for identification of molecular mechanisms within the tumor and 
its environment. The present review summarizes the current understanding of MPEs 
cells and tumor microenvironment, and particularly focuses on dissecting the 
cross-talk between MPEs and epithelial to mesenchymal transition (EMT), 
inflammation and cancer stem cells.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jcp.24806
PMID: 25205557 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


288. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2014 Sep;7(5):680-6. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.114.001163. Epub 2014 Sep 9.

Integrating real-time clinical information to provide estimates of net clinical 
benefit of antithrombotic therapy for patients with atrial fibrillation.

Eckman MH(1), Wise RE(2), Speer B(2), Sullivan M(2), Walker N(2), Lip GY(2), 
Kissela B(2), Flaherty ML(2), Kleindorfer D(2), Khan F(2), Kues J(2), Baker 
P(2), Ireton R(2), Hoskins D(2), Harnett BM(2), Aguilar C(2), Leonard A(2), 
Prakash R(2), Arduser L(2), Costea A(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Division of General Internal Medicine and Center for Clinical 
Effectiveness (M.H.E., R.E.W., N.W., R.P.), Center for Health Informatics 
(M.H.E., P.B., R.I., C.A., B.H., D.H.), Department of Neurology (B.K., M.F., 
D.K.), Division of Cardiology (F.K., A.C.), Department of Family and Community 
Medicine (J.K., B.S., A.L.), and Department of English (L.A.), University of 
Cincinnati, OH; University of Birmingham Centre for Cardiovascular Sciences, 
Birmingham, United Kingdom (G.Y.H.L.) mark.eckman@uc.edu.
(2)From the Division of General Internal Medicine and Center for Clinical 
Effectiveness (M.H.E., R.E.W., N.W., R.P.), Center for Health Informatics 
(M.H.E., P.B., R.I., C.A., B.H., D.H.), Department of Neurology (B.K., M.F., 
D.K.), Division of Cardiology (F.K., A.C.), Department of Family and Community 
Medicine (J.K., B.S., A.L.), and Department of English (L.A.), University of 
Cincinnati, OH; University of Birmingham Centre for Cardiovascular Sciences, 
Birmingham, United Kingdom (G.Y.H.L.).

BACKGROUND: Guidelines for anticoagulant therapy in patients with atrial 
fibrillation are based on stroke risk as calculated by either the CHADS2 or the 
CHA2DS2VASc scores and do not integrate bleeding risk in an explicit, 
quantitative manner. Our objective was to quantify the net clinical benefit 
resulting from improved decision making about antithrombotic therapy.
METHODS AND RESULTS: This study is a retrospective cohort study of 1876 adults 
with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation or flutter seen in primary care settings of 
an integrated healthcare delivery system between December 2012 and January 2014. 
Projections for quality-adjusted life expectancy reported as quality-adjusted 
life-years were calculated by a decision analytic model that integrates 
patient-specific risk factors for stroke and hemorrhage and examines strategies 
of no antithrombotic therapy, aspirin, or oral anticoagulation with warfarin. 
Net clinical benefit was defined by the gain or loss in quality-adjusted life 
expectancy between current treatment and treatment recommended by an Atrial 
Fibrillation Decision Support Tool. Current treatment was discordant from 
treatment recommended by the Atrial Fibrillation Decision Support Tool in 931 
patients. A clinically significant gain in quality-adjusted life expectancy 
(defined as ≥0.1 quality-adjusted life-years) was projected in 832 patients. 
Subgroups were examined. For example, oral anticoagulant therapy was recommended 
for 188 who currently were receiving no antithrombotic therapy. For the entire 
cohort, a total of 736 quality-adjusted life-years could be gained were 
treatment changed to that recommended by the Atrial Fibrillation Decision 
Support Tool.
CONCLUSIONS: Use of a decision support tool that integrates patient-specific 
stroke and bleeding risk could result in significant gains in quality-adjusted 
life expectancy for a primary care population of patients with atrial 
fibrillation.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.114.001163
PMID: 25205788 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


289. Ann Neurosci. 2013 Jan;20(1):13-6. doi: 10.5214/ans.0972.7531.200106.

Withania somnifera root extract extends lifespan of Caenorhabditis elegans.

Kumar R(1), Gupta K(1), Saharia K(1), Pradhan D(2), Subramaniam JR(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biological Sciences and Bioengineering, Indian Institute of 
Technology, Kanpur, INDIA.
(2)IXOREAL Biomed Pvt. Ltd., Hyderabad, INDIA.

BACKGROUND: In the ancient Indian herbal medicine system several ayurvedic 
preparations are claimed to have longevity enhancing effects. But, so far, no 
clear scientific evidence has been provided. One among them, is the roots of the 
plant, commonly known as Ashwagandha (Withania somnifera Dunal- WSD), which is 
supposed to have myriad of beneficial effects including long life.
PURPOSE: Here, we evaluated both the root extract (RE) and its purified 
ingredients (PI-RE) with a similar composition as in RE obtained from the roots 
of WSD for lifespan extension in the well established model system, C. elegans. 
PI-RE could extend the lifespan of C. elegans.
METHODS: We used wild type C. elegans (N2) or RB918: acr-16 (ok789); andNL2099: 
rrf-3 (pk1426) mutant worms and analysed their lifespan assay in Ashwagandha 
extract spreaded on plates containing Bacterial Lawns.
RESULTS: Strangely, while there was no effect on the wild type worms, the mutant 
for the human nicotinic acetylcholine receptor, nAchR, α7 equivalent, acr-16, 
showed around ~20% lifespan extension when treated with PI-RE.
CONCLUSION: Thus, we are able to show that one of the age old healthy longlife 
supplements, Ashwagandha does extend lifespan of C. elegans.

DOI: 10.5214/ans.0972.7531.200106
PMCID: PMC4117092
PMID: 25206003

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: None.


290. Balkan Med J. 2012 Jun;29(2):118-23. doi: 10.5152/balkanmedj.2012.004. Epub
2012  Jun 1.

Transcatheter aortic valve implantation: our experience and review of the 
literature.

Burgazlı KM(1), Chasan R(1), Kavukçu E(2), Neuhof C(1), Bilgin M(1), Soydan 
N(1), Erdoğan A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Division of Cardiology, Giessen University, 
Giessen, Germany.
(2)Department of Internal Medicine, Medical Center Wuppertal, Wuppertal, 
Germany.

Transcatheter Aortic Valve Implantation [TAVI] is widespread worldwide as an 
alternative therapy procedure to the patients suffering from severe aortic valve 
stenosis. However, we shouldn't forget that the conventional surgical aortic 
valve replacement is still the gold standard therapy for severe aortic valve 
stenosis. For the patients who cannot be treated conventionally because of high 
risk comorbid diseases and older age, TAVI is an effective alternative therapy 
method. The indications should be limited, concerning the high mortality rate, 
10% within 30 days of intervention. Long term efficacy data are still 
inadequate. Although the indications are restricted to older patients with a STS 
score >10 or log-Euro Score >20, age is not a definite indication for this 
treatment. The patients should be assessed by a heart team including a 
non-interventional cardiologist, interventional cardiologist, cardiac 
anesthesiologist and cardiac surgeon according to their general status, frailty 
and STS- Euro score. In other words, assessment and treatment of the patient by 
a heart team is the main factor besides the limited power of the scoring 
systems. The treatment should be applied to the patients with an aortic annulus 
diameter between 18-27 mm and a life expectancy of at least over 1 year. The 
currently ongoing investigations are focused on parameters like safety, 
efficiency and long term reliability of TAVI. The scientific and technical 
developments lead to new definitions and parameters regarding the treatment 
indications of severe aortic valve stenosis. In this review, we present the 
actual data about TAVI and also our own experiences.

DOI: 10.5152/balkanmedj.2012.004
PMCID: PMC4115866
PMID: 25206979


291. Brain Inj. 2014;28(13-14):1675-81. doi: 10.3109/02699052.2014.947625. Epub
2014  Sep 10.

Ten-year mortality after severe traumatic brain injury in western Sweden: a case 
control study.

Ulfarsson T(1), Lundgren-Nilsson Å, Blomstrand C, Jakobsson KE, Odén A, Nilsson 
M, Rosén T.

Author information:
(1)Center for Brain Repair and Rehabilitation, Department of Clinical 
Neuroscience and Rehabilitation, Institute of Neuroscience and Physiology, 
University of Gothenburg , Gothenburg , Sweden .

PRIMARY OBJECTIVE: Life expectancy may be substantially reduced for many years 
after severe traumatic brain injury (TBI). This study investigated the patterns 
of the short- and long-term all-cause mortality and the rates of primary causes 
of death in patients with severe TBI.
SUBJECTS: This study was of 166 consecutive patients (6-82 years) with severe 
TBI admitted to Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden, from 
1999-2002. The control group consisted of 809 subjects from the community, 
matched to the TBI cohort for age, gender and postcode area at the time of the 
injury.
METHODS: Survival outcome and cause of death were ascertained 10 years after the 
injury from the Swedish National Board of Health and Welfare register. The 
cumulative death rates and causes of death in cases and controls were compared.
RESULTS: The risk of death was increased for at least 10 years after severe TBI. 
The distribution of the causes of deaths differed between cases and controls in 
the first year of follow-up, but not between 1-year survivors and controls.
CONCLUSION: Further research will be required to determine how to improve 
treatment so as to lower late mortality among survivors of severe TBI.

DOI: 10.3109/02699052.2014.947625
PMID: 25207641 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


292. Food Funct. 2014 Nov;5(11):2806-32. doi: 10.1039/c4fo00317a.

Melatonin and metabolic regulation: a review.

Navarro-Alarcón M(1), Ruiz-Ojeda FJ, Blanca-Herrera RM, A-Serrano MM, 
Acuña-Castroviejo D, Fernández-Vázquez G, Agil A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition and Food Chemistry, Faculty of Pharmacy, University 
of Granada, E-18071 Granada, Spain. nalarcon@ugr.es aagil@ugr.es.

Human life expectancy has increased over the past 50 years due to scientific and 
medical advances and higher food availability. However, overweight and obesity 
affect more than 50% of adults and 15% of infants and adolescents. There has 
also been a marked increase in the prevalence of metabolic syndrome in recent 
decades, which has been associated with a reduction in nocturnal pineal 
production of melatonin with aging and an increased risk of coronary diseases, 
type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) and death. Melatonin is currently under 
intensive investigation in experimental animal models of diabetes, obesity and 
MS at pharmacological doses (between 5 and 20 mg kg(-1) body weight), 
demonstrating its capacity to ameliorate the total metabolic profile and its 
potential as an alternative to conventional drug therapies for the disorders 
associated with the MS, i.e. elevated systolic blood pressure, and impairment of 
glucose homeostasis, plasma lipid profile, inflammation, oxidative stress, and 
increased body weight. An especially significant finding is the induction by 
melatonin of white adipose tissue browning, which may be related to its effects 
against oxidative stress, uncoupling the mitochondrial bioenergetic process by 
enhancing the expression of uncoupled-protein-1 (UCP-1), which has been related 
to body weight reduction in experimental animals. Further research is required 
to improve knowledge of this mechanism. Clinical studies are needed with the 
administration of pharmacological melatonin doses, because the dose has ranged 
between 0.050 and 0.16 mg kg(-1) bw in most studies to date. Melatonin is a 
natural phytochemical, and it is also important to test its beneficial metabolic 
effects when consumed in functional foods.

DOI: 10.1039/c4fo00317a
PMID: 25207999 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


293. MEDICC Rev. 2014 Jul-Oct;16(3-4):8-13. doi: 10.37757/MR2014.V16.N3-4.3.

Disability-adjusted life years for breast and reproductive system cancers in 
Cuban women of child bearing age.

Domínguez E(1), Santana F, Seuc AH.

Author information:
(1)National Endocrinology Institute (INEN), Havana, Cuba. emmada@infomed.sld.cu.

INTRODUCTION Disability-adjusted life years is a composite measure that 
integrates the components of mortality and morbidity. It is a useful indicator 
of overall disease burden and is particularly useful for evaluating health 
intervention outcomes. In the cases of breast and reproductive system cancers, 
these can also negatively affect childbearing opportunities for young women. 
OBJECTIVE Determine disability-adjusted life years for breast and reproductive 
system cancers in Cuban women aged 15-44 years during the period 1990-2006. 
METHODS A national epidemiological study was conducted using Cuba's disease and 
vital statistics registry data for 1990, 1995, 2000 and 2006. 
Disability-adjusted life years in women aged 15-44 years were calculated for 
