
DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2014.07.005
PMID: 25192882 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Dec;14(6):857-72. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.957679. Epub 2014 Sep 5.

Health-related quality of life in patients with ankylosing spondylitis: a 
comprehensive review.

Kotsis K(1), Voulgari PV, Drosos AA, Carvalho AF, Hyphantis T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Division of Medicine, School of Health Sciences, 
University of Ioannina, Ioannina 45110, Greece.

Ankylosing spondylitis (AS) is a complex systemic rheumatological disease which 
often causes severe disability and impaired quality of life (QoL). We searched 
the PubMed/MEDLINE electronic database for available literature on QoL and its 
predictors in patients with AS. Recent evidence indicates that AS patients have 
poorer QoL compared to the general population, but similar to that of patients 
with other rheumatological disorders. Disease activity is one of the most 
powerful predictors of QoL, however latest advances in pharmacological treatment 
(namely, anti-TNF-α) along with physical exercise can minimize the effects of AS 
on QoL. Psychological distress symptoms contribute to impaired QoL both directly 
and indirectly by influencing disease activity. The impact of other psychosocial 
variables, however, is less studied and more prospective investigations are 
necessary, which could eventually lead to the development of psychosocial 
interventions that are personalized to this patient population.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.957679
PMID: 25193010 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. Eur J Health Econ. 2015 May;16(4):347-56. doi: 10.1007/s10198-014-0627-z.
Epub  2014 Sep 6.

Using the SF-6D to measure the impact of alcohol dependence on health-related 
quality of life.

Nogueira JM(1), Rodríguez-Míguez E.

Author information:
(1)Galician Health Service, Centro de Salud de Bembrive, Ctra. de Bembrive, 
259-Bembrive, 36214, Vigo, Spain.

Alcohol dependence not only reduces life expectancy, but also causes 
considerable loss of quality of life of the dependents of and persons around 
those with alcohol dependence. This article presents new evidence on the impact 
of alcohol dependence on health-related quality of life in Spain. Three samples 
were recruited: 150 alcoholics and 64 family members of alcoholics, with both 
samples taken from an alcoholism treatment unit, and 600 persons from the 
general population. We used the short form 6D, a preference-based generic 
instrument, applying the utility scores estimated for Spain. It was found that 
the annual mean loss of quality-adjusted life years associated with alcohol 
dependence was 0.144 and 0.083 for the alcoholics and their close family 
members, respectively. This impact becomes more notable after controlling for 
socio economic variables and was higher than that estimated in similar studies. 
Possible explanations for these differences are discussed. The results from this 
work can be applied to economic evaluation studies measuring benefits from 
policies targeted at reducing the prevalence of alcohol dependence.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-014-0627-z
PMID: 25193526 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Curr Treat Options Cardiovasc Med. 2014 Nov;16(11):346. doi: 
10.1007/s11936-014-0346-x.

Cardiovascular disease associated with the human immunodeficiency virus: an 
update.

Metkus TS Jr(1), Brown TT, Post WS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD, USA.

With the advent of increasingly available antiretroviral therapy (ART), the life 
expectancy of HIV-infected persons is increasing. As they age, HIV-infected 
persons have increased propensity to typical diseases of aging including 
cardiovascular disease and accelerated atherosclerosis. The pathogenesis of 
HIV-associated atherosclerosis is complex and involves a state of chronic 
inflammation, exposure to traditional risk factors, and metabolic side effects 
of ART. Treatment of HIV-associated atherosclerosis should include special 
attention to drug-drug interactions and is best accomplished by a 
multidisciplinary team experienced in the care of HIV-infected persons.

DOI: 10.1007/s11936-014-0346-x
PMID: 25193559


250. Drugs. 2014 Sep;74(14):1673-91. doi: 10.1007/s40265-014-0283-8.

Lanreotide autogel(®): a review of its use in the treatment of patients with 
acromegaly.

Burness CB(1), Dhillon S, Keam SJ.

Author information:
(1)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay, 0754, Auckland, New Zealand, 
demail@springer.com.

Lanreotide Autogel(®) (ATG) [Somatuline(®) Autogel(®), Somatuline(®) Depot(®)] 
is a prolonged-release, supersaturated aqueous gel formulation of the 
somatostatin analogue lanreotide acetate that acts via somatostatin receptors to 
reduce both growth hormone and insulin-like growth factor-I levels. It is 
indicated for the treatment of patients with acromegaly who have had an 
inadequate response to or cannot be treated with surgery and/or radiotherapy. 
This article reviews the clinical efficacy and tolerability of lanreotide ATG in 
the treatment of acromegaly, as well as summarizing its pharmacological 
properties. Results of clinical trials and extension studies of up to 4 years 
duration showed that deep subcutaneous lanreotide ATG was a generally effective 
treatment in treatment-naive and treatment-experienced adults with acromegaly. 
Lanreotide ATG provided hormonal control and improved both health-related 
quality of life and acromegaly symptoms in most patients; it also reduced tumour 
volume to a clinically significant extent in studies of primary therapy. 
Moreover, lanreotide ATG was generally no less effective than intramuscular 
lanreotide long-acting microparticles and was as effective as intramuscular 
octreotide long-acting release in switching or crossover studies, including 
those with standard or extended dosing intervals. Lanreotide ATG is generally 
well tolerated; the most frequently reported adverse events were mild or 
moderate transient gastrointestinal symptoms. Lanreotide ATG also has the 
advantage of being available in a convenient pre-filled syringe and is given 
subcutaneously rather than intramuscularly. Thus, lanreotide ATG continues to be 
a valuable option in the treatment of acromegaly, with potential advantages 
being ease of administration and longer dosing intervals in patients who have an 
adequate response to initial therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-014-0283-8
PMID: 25193626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Best Pract Res Clin Gastroenterol. 2014 Aug;28(4):703-25. doi: 
10.1016/j.bpg.2014.07.011. Epub 2014 Jul 17.

The cooperation between endoscopists and surgeons in treating complications of 
bariatric surgery.

Mathus-Vliegen EM(1).

Author information:
(1)Academic Medical Centre, University of Amsterdam, Amsterdam, Meibergdreef 9, 
1105 AZ Amsterdam, The Netherlands. Electronic address: 
e.mathus-vliegen@amc.uva.nl.

The results of lifestyle interventions and pharmacotherapy are disappointing in 
severe obesity which is characterised by premature death and many 
obesity-associated co-morbidities. Only surgery may achieve significant and 
durable weight losses associated with increased life expectancy and improvement 
of co-morbidities. Bariatric surgery involves the gastrointestinal tract and may 
therefore increase gastrointestinal complaints. Bariatric surgery may also 
result in complications which in many cases can be solved by endoscopic 
interventions. This requires a close cooperation between surgeons and 
endoscopists. This chapter will concentrate on the most commonly performed 
operations such as the Roux-en-Y gastric bypass, the adjustable gastric banding 
and the sleeve gastrectomy, in the majority of cases performed by laparoscopy. 
Operations such as the vertical banded gastroplasty and the biliopancreatic 
diversion with or without duodenal switch will not be discussed at length as 
patients with these operations will not be encountered frequently and their 
management can be found under the headings of the other operations.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bpg.2014.07.011
PMID: 25194185 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Biosens Bioelectron. 2015 May 15;67:364-9. doi: 10.1016/j.bios.2014.08.056.
Epub  2014 Aug 27.

Analysis of telomerase activity based on a spired DNA tetrahedron TS primer.

Li Y(1), Wen Y(1), Wang L(2), Liang W(1), Xu L(1), Ren S(1), Zou Z(1), Zuo X(3), 
Fan C(3), Huang Q(3), Liu G(4), Jia N(2).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Biometrology, Division of Chemistry and Ionizing Radiation 
Measurement Technology, Shanghai Institute of Measurement and Testing 
Technology, Shanghai 201203, P.R. China.
(2)Department of Chemistry, College of Life and Environmental Sciences, Shanghai 
Normal University, 100 Guilin Road, Shanghai 200234, P.R. China.
(3)Laboratory of Physical Biology, Shanghai Institute of Applied Physics, 
Chinese Academy of Sciences, Shanghai 201800, P.R. China.
(4)Laboratory of Biometrology, Division of Chemistry and Ionizing Radiation 
Measurement Technology, Shanghai Institute of Measurement and Testing 
Technology, Shanghai 201203, P.R. China. Electronic address: liug@simt.com.cn.

The development of sensitive telomerase biosensors is hindered by the restricted 
accessibility of telomere strand (TS) primer and the limited enzyme reaction 
space, which is mainly confined by the vertical distance. In this work, we 
designed an electrochemical telomerase biosensor based on a spired DNA 
tetrahedron TS primer (STTS). By adding a rigid dsDNA spire onto the top of the 
DNA tetrahedron, we successfully regulated the distance between the TS primer 
and the surface, and thus greatly facilitated the telomerase elongation on 
surface. The signal-to-noise ratio was 2 times higher than TSP without the spire 
structure. The limit of detection was calculated to be lower than 10 HeLa cells, 
which is at least 2 magnitudes lower than other surface extension-based 
electrochemical telomerase sensors without amplification. The practicability of 
STTS sensor was also demonstrated by analysing various other cell lines 
including cancer cells, stem cells of high telomerase activity and somatic cells 
of low telomerase activity.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bios.2014.08.056
PMID: 25194236 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. Soc Sci Med. 2014 Nov;120:12-20. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.08.026. Epub
2014  Aug 20.

Measuring quality of life in mental health: are we asking the right questions?

Connell J(1), O'Cathain A(2), Brazier J(3).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research, School of Health and Related Research, University 
of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK. Electronic address: j.connell@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)Health Services Research, School of Health and Related Research, University 
of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(3)Health Economics, School of Health and Related Research, University of 
Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.

Measuring quality-adjusted-life years using generic preference-based quality of 
life measures is common practice when evaluating health interventions. However, 
there are concerns that measures in common use, such as the EQ-5D and SF-6D, 
focus overly on physical health and therefore may not be appropriate for 
measuring quality of life for people with mental health problems. The aim of 
this research was to identify the domains of quality of life that are important 
to people with mental health problems in order to assess the content validity of 
these generic measures. Qualitative semi-structured interviews were conducted 
with 19 people, recruited from UK mental health services, with a broad range of 
mental health problems at varying levels of severity. This complemented a 
previous systematic review and thematic synthesis of qualitative studies on the 
same topic. Seven domains important to quality of life for people with mental 
health problems were identified: well-being and ill-being; relationships and a 
sense of belonging; activity; self-perception; autonomy, hope and hopelessness; 
and physical health. These were consistent with the systematic review, with the 
addition of physical health as a domain, and revealed a differing emphasis on 
the positive and negative aspects of quality of life according to the severity 
of the mental health problems. We conclude that the content of existing generic 
preference-based measures of health do not cover this domain space well. 
Additionally, because people may experience substantial improvements in their 
quality of life without registering on the positive end of a quality of life 
scale, it is important that the full spectrum of negative through to positive 
aspects of each domain are included in any quality of life measure.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.08.026
PMCID: PMC4224500
PMID: 25194472 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


254. World Neurosurg. 2014 Dec;82(6):1331-6. doi: 10.1016/j.wneu.2014.08.061.
Epub  2014 Sep 3.

Radiosurgery for metastatic disease at the craniocervical junction.

Tuchman A(1), Yu C(2), Chang EL(3), Kim PE(4), Rusch MC(2), Apuzzo ML(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA. Electronic address: 
alexandertuchman@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Neurological Surgery, Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Keck School of Medicine, University of 
Southern California, Los Angeles, California, USA.
(4)Department of Neuroradiology, Keck School of Medicine, University of Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Metastatic disease of the craniovertebral junction (CVJ) can cause 
pain, cranial nerve deficits, occipitocervical instability, or brainstem/spinal 
cord compression if left untreated. Many patients with metastasis in this region 
have a high burden of systemic disease and short life expectancy, making them 
poor candidates for aggressive surgical resections and fusion procedures. 
Traditionally, symptom palliation and local disease control in these patients 
has been achieved through conventional radiation therapy. Stereotactic 
radiosurgery (SRS) has the advantage of precisely delivering radiation to a 
target in fewer fractions. To our knowledge, we report the results of the 
largest series of patients with CVJ metastasis treated with stereotactic 
radiosurgery.
METHODS: We performed a retrospective review of 9 consecutive patients with 10 
tumors of the CVJ treated with SRS at the Keck Medical Center of the University 
of Southern California. Two tumors were treated with Gamma Knife, whereas the 
other 8 received CyberKnife.
RESULTS: The median marginal dose was 20 Gy (16-24 Gy) over 1-5 fractions. Point 
maximal dose to the brainstem or spinal cord ranged between 8 and 18.9 Gy. 
Median survival was 4 months (1-51 months). Five of six patients presenting with 
pain had at least partial symptom resolution. No patient went on to require 
surgical decompression or fusion, and there were no complications directly 
related to SRS.
CONCLUSIONS: In well-selected patients, SRS for metastatic lesions of the CVJ 
has a low risk for complications or treatment failure, while achieving a high 
rate of palliation of pain symptoms.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.wneu.2014.08.061
PMID: 25195109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


255. Duke Med Health News. 2014 Apr;20(4):3.

It's never too late to get fit. The old adage still has merit: even if you start 
late in life, exercise can boost your potential to age well--as much as 
sevenfold.

[No authors listed]

PMID: 25195207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


256. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Aug;107(4):1392-8. doi: 10.1603/ec13504.

Development, reproductive output and population growth of the fruit fly pest 
Drosophila suzukii (Diptera: Drosophilidae) on artificial diet.

Emiljanowicz LM, Ryan GD, Langille A, Newman J.

Drosophila suzukii (Matsumura) (Diptera: Drosophilidae) is a fruit pest of Asian 
origin that invaded North America in 2008. Despite the widespread economic 
impact of this species, much of the biology and general life history of this 
pest remains largely unknown. Under optimal laboratory conditions (22 degrees C, 
approximately 25% relative humidity), we measured development, survival, 
fecundity, hatch rate, and sex ratio of a North American ecotype of D. suzukii. 
Life history traits were used to construct a life table and reproductive 
schedule, and to calculate the intrinsic rate of population increase. The mean 
(+/- SE) total lifespan (egg to adult mortality) was 86.1 +/- 4.25 d, with a 
maximum value of 153.7 d. On average, females produced 5.7 +/- 0.24 eggs per 
day, with a mean total lifetime production of 635.6 eggs. The gross reproductive 
rate was 317.8 daughter eggs per female and the net reproductive rate was 240.4 
daughter eggs per female. The intrinsic rate of natural increase was 0.179. The 
stable age distribution (c(x)) was comprised of 51% larvae, 25% eggs, 16% pupae, 
and 8% adults. The sex ratio over time was approximately 1:1. We conclude with a 
comparison of our data with previous work on D. suzukii and other Drosophila, 
and discuss the implications for control and monitoring of this pest.

DOI: 10.1603/ec13504
PMID: 25195427 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


257. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Aug;107(4):1411-8. doi: 10.1603/ec13302.

Changes in life history parameters of Rhopalosiphum maidis (Homoptera: 
Aphididae) under four different elevated temperature and CO2 combinations.

Xie H, Zhao L, Wang W, Wang Z, Ni X, Cai W, He K.

Biological characteristics of corn leaf aphid, Rhopalosiphum maidis (Fitch), on 
barley, Hordeum vulgare L., were examined for two generations under four 
different elevated temperature and CO2 combinations. The developmental duration 
for each life stage was significantly reduced under the elevated temperature (+4 
degrees C). The elevated CO2 (700-750 microl/liter) reduced only the development 
time of fourth-instar nymph. The overall duration of nymphal stage was reduced 
in the second generation. Thus, the temperature was the dominant factor to 
development duration of corn leaf aphid. The fecundity of corn leaf aphid was 
significantly increased under the elevated temperature and CO2, as well as in 
the later generation. Elevated temperature and CO2 increased the number of alate 
production, which may enhance the aphid migration or dispersal and the spread of 
plant viruses. Corn leaf aphid had the highest intrinsic rate of increase under 
the elevated temperature and CO2 combination in the second generation. These 
results indicate that the combined effects of both elevated temperature and CO2 
on aphid biology may exacerbate aphid damage on barley under the climate change 
in accompany with elevated temperature and CO2 level.

DOI: 10.1603/ec13302
PMID: 25195429 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


258. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Aug;107(4):1486-95. doi: 10.1603/ec14119.

Study on life parameters of the invasive species Octodonta nipae (Coleoptera: 
Chrysomelidae) on different palm species, under laboratory conditions.

Hou Y, Miao Y, Zhang Z.

In southeastern China, the invasion of the nipa palm hispid Octodonta nipae 
(Maulik) (Coleoptera: Chrysomelidae) results in devastating damage to palms. 
Host plants play an important role in the population increases and outbreaks of 
O. nipae. O. nipae could not complete its development on the Majestic palm 
(Ravenea rivularis Jumelle & Perrier), and females did not lay eggs on Chinese 
fan palm (Livistona chinensis R. Brown). However, this insect species both 
completed development and laid eggs on Chinese windmill palm (Trachycarpus 
fortunei (Hooker) H. Wendland), Canary Island date palm (Phoenix canariensis 
Chabaud), and pygmy date palm (Phoenix roebelenii O' Brien). The demographic 
characteristics of O. nipae reared on Chinese windmill palm, Canary Island date 
palm, and pygmy date palm were compared with an age-stage, two-sex life table. 
In this study, the developmental periods from egg to adult varied from 42.1 d on 
Chinese windmill palm to 49.8 d on pygmy date palm. The survivorship from egg to 
adult on Chinese windmill palm, Canary Island date palm, and pygmy date palm was 
77.5, 79.4, and 66.7%, respectively. Although the adult longevity and the mean 
fecundity for individuals reared on Chinese windmill palm, Canary Island date 
palm, and pygmy date palm were not significantly different, there were 
significant differences in the intrinsic rate of increase, the finite rate, and 
the mean generation time among palm species, and the values of intrinsic rate of 
increase and finite rate were higher for populations reared on Chinese windmill 
palm and Canary Island date palm (0.0313 and 1.0318 d(-1) and 0.0278 and 1.0282 
d(-1), respectively) and lower for populations reared on pygmy date palm (0.0192 
and 1.0194 d(-1)). However, mean generation time was shorter on Chinese windmill 
palm (124.11 d) and Canary Island date palm (129.62 d) and longer on pygmy date 
palm (166.03 d). Our study indicated that different hosts affected life 
parameters of O. nipae, with the most preferred hosts being the Chinese windmill 
palm and Canary Island date palm. These results may be useful for the design of 
culture management strategies for O. nipae.

DOI: 10.1603/ec14119
PMID: 25195440 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


259. J Econ Entomol. 2014 Aug;107(4):1526-34. doi: 10.1603/ec14070.

Performance of arrhenotokous and thelytokous Thrips tabaci (Thysanoptera: 
Thripidae) on onion and cabbage and its implications on evolution and pest 
management.

Li XW, Fail J, Wang P, Feng JN, Shelton AM.

Onion thrips, Thrips tabaci Lindeman (Thysanoptera: Thripidae), is an important 
pest on onion and cabbage. Two reproductive modes--arrhenotoky and 
thelytoky--are found in this species and co-occur in the field. We compared life 
table traits between arrhenotokous and thelytokous T. tabaci on cabbage and 
onion. Experiments were conducted in cages to determine which reproductive mode 
is more competitive. Additionally, host adaption of the arrhenotokous and 
thelytokous T. tabaci between onion and cabbage was investigated. On onion, 
arrhenotokous T. tabaci performed better than thelytokous T. tabaci, while on 
cabbage the opposite occurred. When comparing life table and demographic growth 
parameters (net reproductive rates R(o), mean generation time T, the intrinsic 
rate of natural increase r(m), finite rate of increase A, and population 
doubling time T(d)) on different host plants, we found that arrhenotokous T. 
tabaci performed better on onion than on cabbage, whereas thelytokous T. tabaci 
performed better on cabbage than on onion. Host-related performance differences 
in this species suggest that the divergence between two reproductive modes might 
be associated with host adaption. Pest management strategies for this global 
pest should recognize that the two reproductive modes can impact population 
dynamics on different crops.

DOI: 10.1603/ec14070
PMID: 25195445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


260. J Oral Rehabil. 2014 Dec;41(12):928-40. doi: 10.1111/joor.12217. Epub 2014
Sep  5.

Quality of reporting of dental survival analyses.

Layton DM(1), Clarke M.

Author information:
(1)Prosthodontic Private Practice, Brisbane, Qld, Australia.

To explore the quality of reporting (writing and graphics) of articles that used 
time-to-event analyses to report dental treatment outcomes. A systematic search 
of the top 50 dental journals in 2008 produced the sample of articles for this 
analysis. Articles reporting treatment outcomes with (n = 95) and without (n = 
91) time-to-event statistics were reviewed. Survival descriptive words used in 
the two groups were analysed (Pearson's chi-square). The quality of life tables, 
survival curves and time-to-event statistics were assessed (Kappa analysed 
agreement) and explored. Words describing dental outcomes 'over time' were more 
common in time-to-event compared with control articles (77%, 3%, P < 0.001). 
Non-specific use of 'rate' was common across both groups. Life tables and 
survival curves were used by 39% and 48% of the time-to-event articles, with at 
least one used by 82%. Construction quality was poor: 21% of life tables and 28% 
of survival curves achieved an acceptable standard. Time-to-event statistical 
reporting was poor: 3% achieved a high and 59% achieved an acceptable standard. 
The survival statistic, summary figure and standard error were reported in 76%, 
95% and 20% of time-to-event articles. Individual statistical terms and graphic 
aids were common within and unique to time-to-event articles. Unfortunately, 
important details were regularly omitted from statistical descriptions and 
survival figures making the overall quality poor. It is likely this will mean 
such articles will be incorrectly indexed in databases, missed by searchers and 
unable to be understood completely if identified.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/joor.12217
PMID: 25195784 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


261. Stat Med. 2014 Dec 20;33(29):5138-50. doi: 10.1002/sim.6298. Epub 2014 Sep
4.

Modelling changes in small area disability free life expectancy: trends in 
London wards between 2001 and 2011.

Congdon P(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Geography and Life Sciences Institute, Queen Mary University of 
London.

Existing analyses of trends in disability free life expectancy (DFLE) are mainly 
at aggregate level (national or broad regional). However, major differences in 
DFLE, and trends in these expectancies, exist between different neighbourhoods 
within regions, so supporting a small area perspective. However, this raises 
issues regarding the stability of conventional life table estimation methods at 
small area scales. This paper advocates a Bayesian borrowing strength technique 
to model trends in mortality and disability differences across 625 small areas 
in London, using illness data from the 2001 and 2011 population Censuses, and 
deaths data for two periods centred on the Census years. From this analysis, 
estimates of total life expectancy and DFLE are obtained. The spatio-temporal 
modelling perspective allows assessment of whether significant compression or 
expansion of morbidity has occurred in each small area. Appropriate models 
involve random effects that recognise correlation and interaction effects over 
relevant dimensions of the observed deaths and illness data (areas, ages), as 
well as major spatial trends (e.g. gradients in health and mortality according 
to area deprivation category). Whilst borrowing strength is a primary 
consideration (and demonstrated by raised precision for estimated life 
expectancies), so also is model parsimony. Therefore, pure borrowing strength 
models are compared with models allowing selection of random age-area 
interaction effects using a spike-slab prior, and in fact borrowing strength 
combined with random effects selection provides better fit.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.6298
PMID: 25196376 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


262. Nephrology (Carlton). 2014 Nov;19(11):708-13. doi: 10.1111/nep.12323.

Spiritual care and kidney disease in NZ: a qualitative study with New Zealand 
renal specialists.

Egan R(1), Macleod R, Tiatia R, Wood S, Mountier J, Walker R.

Author information:
(1)Preventive and Social Medicine Department, University of Otago, Dunedin, New 
Zealand.

AIM: People with chronic kidney disease have a shortened life expectancy and 
carry a high symptom burden. Research suggests that attending to renal patients' 
spiritual needs may contribute to an improvement in their quality of life. The 
aim of this qualitative study was to investigate the provision of spiritual care 
in New Zealand renal units from the perspective of specialists.
METHODS: The study followed a generic qualitative approach and included 
semi-structured interviews with specialists recruited from New Zealand's ten 
renal centres.
RESULTS: Five specialist doctors and nine specialist nurses were recruited for 
interviews. Understandings of spirituality were broad, with most participants 
having an inclusive understanding. Patients' spiritual needs were generally 
acknowledged and respected though formal spiritual assessments were not done. 
Consideration of death was discussed as an often-unexamined need. The dominant 
position was that the specialists did not provide explicit spiritual care of 
patients but there was some ad hoc provision offered through pre-dialysis 
educators, family meetings, Māori liaison staff members and the efforts of 
individuals. Chaplains were well used in some services. Participants had 
received no pre and little in-service training or education in spiritual care. 
Suggestions for improvements included in-service training, better utilization of 
chaplaincy services and training in advance care planning.
CONCLUSION: Most participants indicated they would attempt to provide some form 
of spiritual care, either directly or by referring the patient to appropriate 
services. However, participants generally demonstrated a lack of confidence in 
addressing a patient's spiritual needs.

© 2014 Asian Pacific Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1111/nep.12323
PMID: 25196561 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


263. J Urol. 2015 Mar;193(3):812-9. doi: 10.1016/j.juro.2014.08.101. Epub 2014
Sep 6.

Practice patterns and individual variability of surgeons performing radical 
prostatectomy at a high volume academic center.

Patel HD(1), Humphreys E(2), Trock BJ(2), Han M(2), Carter HB(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for Surgical Trials and Outcomes Research, Department of Surgery, 
Johns Hopkins Medical Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland. Electronic address: 
hitenpatel@jhmi.edu.
(2)The James Buchanan Brady Urological Institute, Johns Hopkins Medical 
Institutions, Baltimore, Maryland.

PURPOSE: Regional and local variation in radical prostatectomy rates contribute 
to overtreatment of low risk prostate cancer. We hypothesized that individual 
practice variability would be minimal among urologists practicing at a high 
volume academic center.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We assessed the percent of patients at low risk treated 
with radical prostatectomy in a given year and comorbidity adjusted life 
expectancy in an institutional database accounting for temporal trends and 
disease characteristics. Multivariable linear, spline and logistic models were 
applied with a hierarchical random effects model to estimate the proportion of 
variance due to surgeon and temporal effects.
RESULTS: Of the 20,655 men included in study 11,873 (57.5%) had low risk 
disease. The Gleason score leading to radical prostatectomy increased with time. 
Overall the percent of patients at low risk treated with prostatectomy in a 
given year increased 3.49% yearly from 1991 to 2001 and then decreased by 1.73% 
yearly from 2001 to 2013. Greater surgeon experience was associated with a 
higher percent of patients at low risk treated with prostatectomy in a given 
year from 1991 to 2001 (0.46% per year of experience). High volume surgeons 
(total more than 1,000 radical prostatectomies) operated on a slightly greater 
percent of patients at low risk (3.54%). Substantial practice variation existed 
among surgeons for operating on men 65 years old or older at low risk (OR 3.15, 
95% CI 1.62-6.11). There was similar variation when operating on older patients 
with a life expectancy of less than 15 years. Surgeon level and temporal effects 
explained 24% and 70%, respectively, of the variance in the percent of patients 
at low risk treated with radical prostatectomy in a given year.
CONCLUSIONS: At a high volume academic center substantial practice variation 
exists among surgeons when selecting patients with prostate cancer to undergo 
radical prostatectomy based on risk and life expectancy even among older 
patients. In addition to patient decision support tools, publicly reporting 
individual practice patterns at the provider level could decrease the 
overtreatment of low risk prostate cancer.

Copyright © 2015 American Urological Association Education and Research, Inc. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.juro.2014.08.101
PMID: 25196659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


264. Pacing Clin Electrophysiol. 2015 Jan;38(1):48-53. doi: 10.1111/pace.12499.
Epub  2014 Sep 5.

Permanent pacing in nonagenarians over 20-year period.

Antonelli D(1), Freedberg NA, Bushari LI, Feldman A, Turgeman Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiology, Ha Emek Medical Center, Afula, Israel.

INTRODUCTION: Life expectancy increases progressively and nonagenarians are a 
growing population. We report trends in pacing and long-term outcome in 
nonagenarians over a 20-year period in a single center compared with those of 
younger patients.
METHODS: We retrospectively reviewed all the patients who underwent their first 
pacemaker implantation from January 1, 1991 to December 31, 2010 and were 
followed through December 31, 2013.
RESULTS: During the study period, 1,009 patients underwent first pacemaker 
implantation: 45 patients were older than 90 years (mean age 92.5 ± 2.6) (4.5%); 
21 were men. Battery replacement was performed in four patients in whom first 
implant was made at age ≥ 90 years (8.9%) and in 231 patients aged <90 (24%; P < 
0.01). Syncope was the most common symptom leading to pacing, followed by 
dizziness and fatigue in all age groups; no significant difference of symptoms 
was found between patient age groups. In patients aged ≥ 90 atrioventricular 
block and atrial fibrillation with slow ventricular response were more frequent, 
while sick sinus syndrome and carotid sinus hypersensitivity were less frequent 
than in younger patients. Ventricular chamber pacemakers were implanted with 
significant growing frequency, according to the older patients' age. Neither the 
indication for pacemaker implantation nor pacing mode influenced survival.
CONCLUSIONS: Nonagenarians are a growing population. Symptoms leading to pacing 
in patients aged ≥ 90 were similar to those of younger patients, but different 
frequency was found in the electrocardiographic indications. Ventricular chamber 
pacemakers were significantly more implanted than dual-chamber pacemakers but 
without negative survival influence.

©2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/pace.12499
PMID: 25196677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


265. J Bone Miner Res. 2015 Feb;30(2):257-63. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.2349.

Clinical characteristics and evolution of giant cell tumor occurring in Paget's 
disease of bone.

Rendina D(1), De Filippo G, Ralston SH, Merlotti D, Gianfrancesco F, Esposito T, 
Muscariello R, Nuti R, Strazzullo P, Gennari L.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Surgery, Federico II University, Naples, Italy.

Patients with Paget's bone disease (PDB) have an increased risk of developing 
giant cell tumor (GCT). This study was performed to evaluate the clinical 
characteristics and evolution of GCT complicating PDB and to compare these 
clinical characteristics to those observed in two large PDB cohorts, the PDB 
Italian Registry and the United Kingdom's Multi-Centre Randomised Controlled 
Trial of Symptomatic Versus Intensive Bisphosphonate Therapy for Paget's Disease 
(PRISM) study. A systematic literature review identified 117 cases of PDB 
complicated by GCT (PDB-GCT), which involved the skeletal sites affected by PDB 
(110 patients) or the extraskeletal tissues adjacent to affected bones (7 
patients). In contrast to what previously reported for GCT patients without GCT 
patients (83.2%) were white and one-fourth of them (24.8%) had multifocal GCTs. 
Compared to PDB patients without GCT, PDB-GCT patients showed a higher 
male/female ratio (2.1 versus 1.2) and more severe disease (age at PDB onset 
52.1 ± 12.1 versus 63.3 ± 10.6 years; number of affected sites 6.1 ± 2.9 versus 
2.34 ± 1.6; prevalence of polyostotic PDB 93.3% versus 60.6%). The mortality 
rate of PDB-GCT patients was higher than those occurring in GCT patients without 
PDB (about 50% versus 0% to 5% at 5 years) or in PDB patients without GCT (log 
rank = 29.002). Moreover, up to 98% of PDB-GCT cases had elevated total alkaline 
phosphatase levels at neoplasm diagnosis, suggestive of active PDB. Importantly, 
PDB-GCT patients from Southern Italy (45.6% of all GCT patients) showed a higher 
prevalence of multifocal GCT (51.7%) and of positive familial history for PDB 
(70.8%) and GCT (65.0%). Finally, indirect evidence suggests a decline in the 
incidence of GCT in PDB patients. The occurrence of GCT in PDB patients is 
associated with severe disease and reduced life expectancy of affected patients. 
The increased prevalence of familial diseases in PDB-GCT patients from Southern 
Italy suggests a founder effect. The observed changes over time in the incidence 
of GCT in PDB patients could be related to improved clinical management and/or 
living conditions of patients.

© 2014 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.2349
PMID: 25196811 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


266. J Aging Stud. 1987 Spring;1(1):65-76. doi: 10.1016/S0890-4065(87)80023-3.
Epub  2007 Apr 13.

Individual autonomy, cooperative empowerment, and planning for long-term care 
decision making.

Clark PG.

Advance planning by the elederly for long-term care decisions promises to 
enhance personal responsibility and autonomy while improving their quality of 
life. Such planning becomes an extension of the concepts of client empowerment 
and self-care and is based on the ethical principles of individual autonomy and 
freedom of choice. These have clear implications for the content and process of 
advance planning, including the activities of "effective deliberation" and 
"moral reflection." A sense of self-respect and the provision of care-provider 
support and social resources become key ingredients in this process, leading to 
the development of the concept of "cooperative empowerment." Broader risk 
assessment methodologies are proposed to encourage the planning process, which 
can be given direction by the development of a personal planning guide and 
workshops. Attention must be drawn particularly to the importance of human 
values at the core of personal decisions and life plans.

Copyright © 1987. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/S0890-4065(87)80023-3
PMID: 25196927


267. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 8;9(9):e106836. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0106836. 
eCollection 2014.

Costs and cost-effectiveness of 9-valent human papillomavirus (HPV) vaccination 
in two East African countries.

Kiatpongsan S(1), Kim JJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Harvard Interfaculty Initiative in Health Policy, Cambridge, Massachusetts, 
United States of America; Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Faculty of 
Medicine, Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand; Sasin Graduate Institute 
of Business Administration of Chulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Center for Health Decision Science, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Current prophylactic vaccines against human papillomavirus (HPV) 
target two of the most oncogenic types, HPV-16 and -18, which contribute to 
roughly 70% of cervical cancers worldwide. Second-generation HPV vaccines 
include a 9-valent vaccine, which targets five additional oncogenic HPV types 
(i.e., 31, 33, 45, 52, and 58) that contribute to another 15-30% of cervical 
cancer cases. The objective of this study was to determine a range of vaccine 
costs for which the 9-valent vaccine would be cost-effective in comparison to 
the current vaccines in two less developed countries (i.e., Kenya and Uganda).
METHODS AND FINDINGS: The analysis was performed using a natural history disease 
simulation model of HPV and cervical cancer. The mathematical model simulates 
individual women from an early age and tracks health events and resource use as 
they transition through clinically-relevant health states over their lifetime. 
Epidemiological data on HPV prevalence and cancer incidence were used to adapt 
the model to Kenya and Uganda. Health benefit, or effectiveness, from HPV 
vaccination was measured in terms of life expectancy, and costs were measured in 
international dollars (I$). The incremental cost of the 9-valent vaccine 
included the added cost of the vaccine counterbalanced by costs averted from 
additional cancer cases prevented. All future costs and health benefits were 
discounted at an annual rate of 3% in the base case analysis. We conducted 
sensitivity analyses to investigate how infection with multiple HPV types, 
unidentifiable HPV types in cancer cases, and cross-protection against 
non-vaccine types could affect the potential cost range of the 9-valent vaccine. 
In the base case analysis in Kenya, we found that vaccination with the 9-valent 
vaccine was very cost-effective (i.e., had an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio below per-capita GDP), compared to the current vaccines provided the added 
cost of the 9-valent vaccine did not exceed I$9.7 per vaccinated girl. To be 
considered very cost-effective, the added cost per vaccinated girl could go up 
to I$5.2 and I$16.2 in the worst-case and best-case scenarios, respectively. At 
a willingness-to-pay threshold of three times per-capita GDP where the 9-valent 
vaccine would be considered cost-effective, the thresholds of added costs 
associated with the 9-valent vaccine were I$27.3, I$14.5 and I$45.3 per 
vaccinated girl for the base case, worst-case and best-case scenarios, 
respectively. In Uganda, vaccination with the 9-valent vaccine was very 
cost-effective when the added cost of the 9-valent vaccine did not exceed I$8.3 
per vaccinated girl. To be considered very cost-effective, the added cost per 
vaccinated girl could go up to I$4.5 and I$13.7 in the worst-case and best-case 
scenarios, respectively. At a willingness-to-pay threshold of three times 
per-capita GDP, the thresholds of added costs associated with the 9-valent 
vaccine were I$23.4, I$12.6 and I$38.4 per vaccinated girl for the base case, 
worst-case and best-case scenarios, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: This study provides a threshold range of incremental costs 
associated with the 9-valent HPV vaccine that would make it a cost-effective 
intervention in comparison to currently available HPV vaccines in Kenya and 
Uganda. These prices represent a 71% and 61% increase over the price offered to 
the GAVI Alliance ($5 per dose) for the currently available 2- and 4-valent 
vaccines in Kenya and Uganda, respectively. Despite evidence of 
cost-effectiveness, critical challenges around affordability and feasibility of 
HPV vaccination and other competing needs in low-resource settings such as Kenya 
and Uganda remain.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0106836
PMCID: PMC4157790
PMID: 25198104 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


268. J Food Prot. 2014 Aug;77(8):1308-16. doi: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-13-458.

Formulation of a nasogastric liquid feed and shelf-life extension using gamma 
radiation.

Hajare SN(1), Gautam S(1), Nair AB(2), Sharma A(3).

Author information:
(1)Food Technology Division, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai 400 085, 
India.
(2)Tata Memorial Hospital, Parel, Mumbai 400 012, India.
(3)Food Technology Division, Bhabha Atomic Research Centre, Mumbai 400 085, 
India. ksarun@barc.gov.in.

Nasogastric liquid feed formulation (NGLF) was developed for immunocompromised 
patients who are vulnerable targets of pathogenic assault. NGLF consisted of 
cereals, pulses, vegetables, and milk powder to provide balanced nutrients; 
however, the shelf life was only a few hours because this product was highly 
prone to microbial contamination and proliferation due to its high water content 
and rich nutrients. Postpreparation storage and distribution was very difficult, 
even at chilled temperatures. To overcome this problem, the NGLF was irradiated 
at various doses (2.5 to 10 kGy). Gamma irradiation at 10 kGy reduced the 
microbial load to nondetectable levels, and the product could be stored up to 1 
month without any detectable increase in microbial load. The sensory evaluation 
did not indicate differences between the nonirradiated fresh, irradiated fresh, 
and stored samples. Nutritional quality in terms of total carbohydrates, dietary 
fiber, proteins, calories, vitamins A and C, and the micronutrients calcium, 
iron, and zinc was not affected by irradiation. NGLF also possessed 
antimutagenic potential against ethylmethanesulphonate-induced mutagenesis in 
Escherichia coli cells as evaluated by the rifampin resistance assay. This 
property of NGLF remained unchanged even after exposure to a 10-kGy dose of 
gamma radiation. Thus, irradiated NGLF seemed to be a safe and wholesome food 
for immunocompromised patients.

DOI: 10.4315/0362-028X.JFP-13-458
PMID: 25198591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


269. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 8;9(9):e103483. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103483. 
eCollection 2014.

Waist-to-height ratio is more predictive of years of life lost than body mass 
index.

Ashwell M(1), Mayhew L(2), Richardson J(2), Rickayzen B(2).

Author information:
(1)Ashwell Associates, Ashwell, UK and Visiting Research Fellow, Oxford Brookes 
University, Oxfordshire, United Kingdom.
(2)Cass Business School, City University London, Faculty of Actuarial Science 
and Insurance, London, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: Our aim was to compare the effect of central obesity (measured by 
waist-to-height ratio, WHtR) and total obesity (measured by body mass index, 
BMI) on life expectancy expressed as years of life lost (YLL), using data on 
British adults.
METHODS: A Cox proportional hazards model was applied to data from the 
prospective Health and Lifestyle Survey (HALS) and the cross sectional Health 
Survey for England (HSE). The number of years of life lost (YLL) at three ages 
(30, 50, 70 years) was found by comparing the life expectancies of obese lives 
with those of lives at optimum levels of BMI and WHtR.
RESULTS: Mortality risk associated with BMI in the British HALS survey was 
similar to that found in US studies. However, WHtR was a better predictor of 
mortality risk. For the first time, YLL have been quantified for different 
values of WHtR. This has been done for both sexes separately and for three 
representative ages.
CONCLUSION: This study supports the simple message "Keep your waist 
circumference to less than half your height". The use of WHtR in public health 
screening, with appropriate action, could help add years to life.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103483
PMCID: PMC4157748
PMID: 25198730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Author Margaret Ashwell is 
employed by Ashwell Associates. There are no patents, products in development or 
marketed products to declare. This does not alter the authors’ adherence to all 
the PLoS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


270. Int J Tuberc Lung Dis. 2014 Aug;18(8):939-45. doi: 10.5588/ijtld.13.0131.

Cost-effectiveness of the Health X Project for tuberculosis control in China.

Wang WB(1), Zhang H(2), Petzold M(3), Zhao Q(1), Xu B(1), Zhao GM(1).

Author information:
(1)<label>*</label>Department of Epidemiology, and Key Laboratory of Public 
Health Safety, Ministry of Education, Fudan University, Shanghai.
(2)<label><sup>†</sup></label>Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, 
Beijing, China;
(3)<label><sup>‡</sup></label>Centre for Applied Biostatistics, Occupational and 
Environmental Medicine, University of Gothenburg, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Between 2002 and 2008, China's National Tuberculosis Control 
Programme created the Health X Project, financed in part by a World Bank loan, 
with additional funding from the UK Department for International Development.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the cost-effectiveness of the Project and its impact from 
a financial point of view on tuberculosis (TB) control in China.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was used to evaluate the cost-effectiveness 
of the Project. Sensitivity analysis was used to assess the impact of different 
scenarios and assumptions on results. The primary outcome of the study was cost 
per disability-adjusted life-year (DALY) saved and incremental DALYs saved.
RESULTS: In comparison with alternative scenario 1, the Project detected 1.6 
million additional cases, 44 000 deaths were prevented and a total of 18.4 
million DALYs saved. The Project strategies cost approximately Chinese yuan 
(CNY) 953 per DALY saved (vs. CNY1140 in the control areas), and saved an 
estimated CNY17.5 billion in comparison with the unchanged alternative scenario 
(scenario 1) or CNY10.8 billion with the control scenario (scenario 2).
CONCLUSION: The Project strategies were affordable and of comparable 
cost-effectiveness to those of other developing countries. The results also 
provide strong support for the existing policy of scaling up DOTS in China.

DOI: 10.5588/ijtld.13.0131
PMID: 25199008 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


271. Aliment Pharmacol Ther. 2014 Nov;40(9):1023-34. doi: 10.1111/apt.12938. Epub
 2014 Sep 9.

Review article: the economic impact of the irritable bowel syndrome.

Canavan C(1), West J, Card T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology and Public Health, University of Nottingham, 
Nottingham, UK.

BACKGROUND: Irritable bowel syndrome (IBS) is a chronic functional disorder of 
the gastrointestinal system affecting a large number of people worldwide. Whilst 
it has no attributable mortality, it has substantial impact on patients' quality 
of life (QoL) and is associated with considerable healthcare resource use.
AIM: To review the economic impact of IBS, firstly on the individual, secondly 
on healthcare systems internationally and thirdly to society.
METHODS: Appropriate databases were searched for relevant papers using the 
terms: Irritable Bowel Syndrome; IBS; irritable colon; functional bowel/colonic 
disease; economics; health care/service costs; health expenditure/resources; 
health care/service utilisation; productivity.
RESULTS: Irritable bowel syndrome impacts most substantially on patients' work 
and social life. Reduction in QoL is such that on average patients would 
sacrifice between 10 and 15 years of their remaining life expectancy for an 
immediate cure. Between 15% and 43% of patients pay for remedies. No studies 
quantify loss of earnings related to IBS. Direct care costs are substantial; 48% 
of patients incur some costs in any year with annual international estimates per 
patient of: USA $742-$7547, UK £90-£316, France €567-€862, Canada $259, Germany 
€791, Norway NOK 2098 (€262) and Iran $92. Minimising extensive diagnostic 
investigations could generate savings and has been shown as not detrimental to 
patients. Cost to industry internationally through absenteeism and presenteeism 
related to IBS is estimated between £400 and £900 per patient annually.
CONCLUSIONS: Irritable bowel syndrome is associated with substantial costs to 
patients, healthcare systems and society. Considerable benefit could be obtained 
from effective interventions.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/apt.12938
PMID: 25199904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


272. Circulation. 2014 Sep 9;130(11 Suppl 1):S32-8. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.113.007764.

Redefining expectations of long-term survival after the Fontan procedure: 
twenty-five years of follow-up from the entire population of Australia and New 
Zealand.

d'Udekem Y(1), Iyengar AJ(2), Galati JC(2), Forsdick V(2), Weintraub RG(2), 
Wheaton GR(2), Bullock A(2), Justo RN(2), Grigg LE(2), Sholler GF(2), Hope S(2), 
Radford DJ(2), Gentles TL(2), Celermajer DS(2), Winlaw DS(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Cardiac Surgery (Y.d., A.J.I.) and Department of 
Cardiology (R.G.W.), Royal Children's Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia; 
Murdoch Childrens Research Institute, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (Y.d., 
A.J.I, J.C.G.); Department of Paediatrics, Faculty of Medicine, The University 
of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (A.J.I., R.G.W.); Department of 
Mathematics & Statistics, La Trobe University, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia 
(J.C.G.); Heart Centre for Children, The Children's Hospital at Westmead, 
Sydney, New South Wales, Australia (R.G.W., G.F.S., D.S.W.); Department of 
Cardiology, Women's and Children's Hospital, Adelaide, South Australia, 
Australia (G.R.W.); Children's Cardiac Centre, Princess Margaret Hospital for 
Children, Perth, Western Australia, Australia (A.B); Paediatric Cardiology, 
Queensland Paediatric Cardiac Service, Mater Children's Hospital, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia (R.N.J.); Department of Cardiology, The Royal Melbourne 
Hospital, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (L.E.G.); Paediatric Cardiology 
Services, Monash Heart, Monash Health, Melbourne, Victoria, Australia (S.H.); 
Department of Medicine, Monash University, Melbourne, Australia (S.H.); Adult 
Congenital Heart Disease Unit, The Prince Charles Hospital, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia (D.J.R.); Green Lane Paediatric and Congenital Cardiac 
Service, Starship Children's Hospital, Auckland, New Zealand (T.L.G.); 
Department of Cardiology, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia (D.S.C.); Department of Medicine, The University of Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia (D.S.C.); The University of Notre Dame, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia (V.F.); on behalf of the Australia and New Zealand Fontan 
Registry. yves.dudekem@rch.org.au.
