the local inflammatory reaction was slower and the rise was only observed 24 h 
after talc application. A decrease in lymphocyte count and an increase in 
granulocyte count 2 h after talcage were found. After an initial drop in 
monocyte level, a rise occurred within 24 h after talcage. Changes in the 
expression of TLR-2 and CD-64 receptors in relation to their cell carriers were 
observed depending on time after talcage.
CONCLUSION: The differences in the serum and pleural effusion CRP levels suggest 
that the surgical stress manifests itself locally in the pleural space with a 
lower intensity and time delay. The TLR-2 and CD-64 receptors exhibit different 
behaviour depending on the type of cell membrane where they are found. The 
inverse relation between the granulocyte increase and TLR-2 receptor decrease in 
the membrane immediately after talcage is a new finding. The dynamics of TLR-2 
expression on the monocytes demonstrates a direct proportion between the 
increasing expression of the TLR-2 receptor and increasing percent fraction of 
the cell carrier.

DOI: 10.5507/bp.2014.038
PMID: 25059234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


861. J Diabetes Complications. 2014 Nov-Dec;28(6):904-11. doi: 
10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2014.06.012. Epub 2014 Jun 21.

Cystic fibrosis related diabetes--a new perspective on the optimal management of 
postprandial glycemia.

Perano S(1), Rayner CK(2), Couper J(3), Martin J(4), Horowitz M(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Women's and Children's Hospital, 
South Australia, Australia; Discipline of Paediatrics and Medicine, University 
of Adelaide, South Australia, Australia. Electronic address: 
shiree.perano@adelaide.edu.au.
(2)Discipline of Paediatrics and Medicine, University of Adelaide, South 
Australia, Australia; Department of Gastroenterology and Hepatology, Royal 
Adelaide Hospital, South Australia, Australia.
(3)Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Women's and Children's Hospital, 
South Australia, Australia; Discipline of Paediatrics and Medicine, University 
of Adelaide, South Australia, Australia.
(4)Department of Respiratory Medicine, Women's and Children's Hospital, South 
Australia, Australia.
(5)Discipline of Paediatrics and Medicine, University of Adelaide, South 
Australia, Australia; Endocrine and Metabolic Unit, Royal Adelaide Hospital, 
South Australia, Australia.

As the average life expectancy of patients with cystic fibrosis (CF) improves, 
the long term co-morbidities assume increasing importance. CF related diabetes 
(CFRD) has adverse effects on both nutrition and pulmonary function, and is 
associated with increased mortality. Abnormalities of glucose metabolism in CF 
represent a continuum; however the predominant abnormality is postprandial, not 
pre-prandial, glycemia. Insulin is currently recommended as the treatment of 
choice for CFRD, but its use is associated with a number of limitations, 
including hypoglycemia. Both the rate of gastric emptying and the consequent 
release of the 'incretin' hormones, glucose-dependent insulinotropic polypeptide 
(GIP) and glucagon-like-peptide-1 (GLP-1), from the gut are important 
determinants of overall glycemic control, particularly postprandial glycemia. 
Both are abnormal in conditions associated with exocrine pancreatic 
insufficiency. Incretin based therapies that have the capacity to slow gastric 
emptying and/or modulate the release of 'incretin' hormones, are now used widely 
in type 2 diabetes (T2D). This paper explores the determinants of glycemic 
control in CF, with a particular focus on the roles of gastric emptying and 
'incretin' hormones, providing a rationale for the use of therapies that delay 
gastric emptying, including incretin mimetics, to minimize postprandial glycemia 
and improve nutritional status.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2014.06.012
PMID: 25060530 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


862. J Sci Food Agric. 2015 Apr;95(6):1373-8. doi: 10.1002/jsfa.6838. Epub 2014
Aug  22.

Chitosan coating incorporated with the lactoperoxidase system: an active edible 
coating for fish preservation.

Jasour MS(1), Ehsani A, Mehryar L, Naghibi SS.

Author information:
(1)Artemia and Aquatic Animal's Research Institute, Urmia University, Urmia, 
Iran.

BACKGROUND: As a result of consumers' concerns about chemicals there is a 
particular interest in the food industry to use natural bio-preservatives such 
as antimicrobial enzymes for antimicrobial packaging. Based on the antimicrobial 
activity of the lactoperoxidase system (LPOS), the present study evaluated the 
coating effect of LPOS incorporated into chitosan solution (CH) on the quality 
and shelf life extension of rainbow trout during refrigerated storage 
(4 ± 1 °C), for a period of 16 days.
RESULTS: The results indicated that samples of the CH+LPOS group had 
significantly lower numbers of Shewanella putrefaciens, Pseudomonas fluorescens, 
and psychrotrophic and mesophilic bacteria than did the CH and control group 
during the entire storage period. Total volatile basic nitrogen (TVB-N) levels 
for the CH+LPOS samples (22.07 mg 100 g(-1)) did not exceed the limit of 
consumption (30-35 mg N 100 g(-1)), while the CH (31.03 mg 100 g(-1) ) and 
control groups (37.78 mg 100 g(-1) ) reached this level at days 12 and 16, 
respectively. Thiobarbituric acid values of the CH and CH+LPOS samples, ranged 
between 0.49 and 0.51 on day 0 and 4.59-4.66 mg kg(-1) on day 16, were 
significantly lower (P < 0.05) than the corresponding values of the control 
samples (0.47 on day 0 to 4.78 mg kg(-1) on day 16 of storage) during the 
chilled storage period.
CONCLUSION: The coating treatments (CH and CH+LPOS) extended the shelf life of 
trout fillets by at least 4 days as compared to the control samples, so that 
they showed moderate to high acceptability in all investigated sensory 
attributes even on the 16th day of storage.

© 2014 Society of Chemical Industry.

DOI: 10.1002/jsfa.6838
PMID: 25060563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Cancer. 2014 Dec 1;120(23):3738-43. doi: 10.1002/cncr.28923. Epub 2014 Jul
24.

Radiotherapy for benign head and neck paragangliomas: a 45-year experience.

Gilbo P(1), Morris CG, Amdur RJ, Werning JW, Dziegielewski PT, Kirwan J, 
Mendenhall WM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, University of Florida, Gainesville, 
Florida.

BACKGROUND: Paragangliomas of the head and neck are rare, slow-growing, 
generally benign tumors of neuroendocrine cells associated with the peripheral 
nervous system that commonly involve the carotid body, jugular bulb, vagal 
ganglia, and temporal bone. Treatment options include surgery, radiotherapy 
(RT), stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS), and observation. This article briefly 
reviews our 45-year institutional experience treating this neoplasm with RT.
METHODS: From January 1968 through March 2011, 131 patients with 156 benign 
paragangliomas of the temporal bone, carotid body, jugular bulb, or glomus 
vagale were treated with RT at a median dose of 45 Gy in 25 fractions. The mean 
and median follow-up times were 11.5 years and 8.7 years, respectively.
RESULTS: Five tumors (3.2%) recurred locally after RT, all within 10 years of 
treatment. The overall local control rates at 5 and 10 years were 99% and 96%, 
respectively. The cause-specific survival rates at 5 and 10 years were 98% and 
97%, respectively. The distant-metastasis free survival rates at 5 and 10 years 
were 99% and 99%, respectively. The overall survival rates at 5 and 10 years 
were 91% and 72%, respectively. There were no severe complications.
CONCLUSION: RT for benign head and neck paragangliomas is a safe and efficacious 
treatment associated with minimal morbidity. Surgery is reserved for patients in 
good health whose risk of associated morbidity is low. SRS may be suitable for 
patients with skull base tumors <3 cm where RT is logistically unsuitable. 
Observation is a reasonable option for asymptomatic patients with a limited life 
expectancy.

© 2014 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.28923
PMID: 25060724 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2014 Oct;12(5):497-510. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-014-0115-8.

What is the quality of economic evaluations of non-drug therapies? A systematic 
review and critical appraisal of economic evaluations of radiotherapy for 
cancer.

Barbieri M(1), Weatherly HL, Ara R, Basarir H, Sculpher M, Adams R, Ahmed H, 
Coles C, Guerrero-Urbano T, Nutting C, Powell M.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Economics (CHE), University of York, Heslington, York, YO10 
5DD, UK, mc.barbier@libero.it.

BACKGROUND: Breast, cervical and colorectal cancers are the three most frequent 
cancers in women, while lung, prostate and colorectal cancers are the most 
frequent in men. Much attention has been given to the economic evaluation of 
pharmaceuticals for treatment of cancer by the National Institute for Health and 
Care Excellence (NICE) in the UK and similar authorities internationally, while 
economic analysis developed for other types of anti-cancer interventions, 
including radiotherapy and surgery, are less common.
OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to review methods used in published 
cost-effectiveness studies evaluating radiotherapy for breast, cervical, 
colorectal, head and neck and prostate cancer, and to compare the economic 
evaluation methods applied with those defined in the guidelines used by the NICE 
technology appraisal programme.
METHODS: A systematic search of seven databases (MEDLINE, EMBASE, CDSR, NHSEED, 
HTA, DARE, EconLit) as well as research registers, the NICE website and 
conference proceedings was conducted in July 2012. Only economic evaluations of 
radiotherapy interventions in individuals diagnosed with cancer that included 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) or life-years (LYs) were included. Included 
studies were appraised on the basis of satisfying essential, preferred and 
UK-specific methods requirements, building on the NICE Reference Case for 
economic evaluations and on other methods guidelines.
RESULTS: A total of 29 studies satisfied the inclusion criteria (breast 14, 
colorectal 2, prostate 10, cervical 0, head and neck 3). Only two studies were 
conducted in the UK (13 in the USA). Among essential methods criteria, the main 
issue was that only three (10%) of the studies used clinical-effectiveness 
estimates identified through systematic review of the literature. Similarly, 
only eight (28%) studies sourced health-related quality-of-life data directly 
from patients with the condition of interest. Other essential criteria (e.g. 
clear description of comparators, patient group indication and appropriate time 
horizon) were generally fulfilled, while most of the UK-specific requirements 
were not met.
CONCLUSION: Based on this review there is a dearth of up-to-date, robust 
evidence on the cost effectiveness of radiotherapy in cancer suitable to support 
decision making in the UK. Studies selected did not fully satisfy essential 
method standards currently recommended by NICE.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-014-0115-8
PMCID: PMC4175431
PMID: 25060829 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
declare


865. Drugs. 2014 Sep;74(14):1659-72. doi: 10.1007/s40265-014-0271-z.

OnabotulinumtoxinA (Botox(®)): a review of its use in the treatment of urinary 
incontinence in patients with multiple sclerosis or subcervical spinal cord 
injury.

Sanford M(1).

Author information:
(1)Springer, Private Bag 65901, Mairangi Bay 0754, Auckland, New Zealand, 
demail@springer.com.

OnabotulinumtoxinA (BOTOX(®)) is a type A neurotoxin derived from Clostridium 
botulinum bacteria that is approved as treatment for urinary incontinence (UI) 
in patients with neurogenic detrusor overactivity resulting from multiple 
sclerosis (MS) or subcervical spinal cord injury (SCI) who are not adequately 
treated by antimuscarinics. This article reviews the pharmacology of 
intradetrusor onabotulinumtoxinA in this indication. The presumed mode of action 
of onabotulinumtoxinA in bladder disorders is by interfering with efferent 
innervation of the detrusor muscle and afferent pathways involved in the 
micturition reflex. In phase III trials in adult patients with MS or SCI with UI 
who were not adequately treated with antimuscarinics, intradetrusor 
onabotulinumtoxinA 200 U produced significantly greater mean changes 
(reductions) from baseline in UI episodes/week at week 6 than placebo (primary 
endpoint). Similar significant benefits of intradetrusor onabotulinumtoxinA 
200 U over placebo were observed on other UI, urodynamic, health-related quality 
of life and treatment satisfaction endpoints. Intradetrusor onabotulinumtoxinA 
200 U was generally well tolerated, with the most frequent adverse events being 
urinary tract infections and urinary retention. Few patients discontinued 
treatment because of adverse events. Based on interim analyses of an extension 
study of the phase III trials, repeat injections of onabotulinumtoxinA 200 U 
were similarly efficacious and well tolerated. Intradetrusor onabotulinumtoxinA 
represents a clinically important advance in the therapy of UI in patients with 
MS or SCI who have not responded to antimuscarinics or who are unable to 
tolerate antimuscarinics.

DOI: 10.1007/s40265-014-0271-z
PMID: 25060982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Biomed Res Int. 2014;2014:590281. doi: 10.1155/2014/590281. Epub 2014 Jul 1.

Cofactor independent phosphoglycerate mutase of Brugia malayi induces a mixed 
Th1/Th2 type immune response and inhibits larval development in the host.

Singh PK(1), Kushwaha S(1), Rana AK(1), Misra-Bhattacharya S(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Parasitology, CSIR-Central Drug Research Institute, B.S. 10/1, 
Sector 10, P.O. Box 173, Jankipuram Extension, Sitapur Road, Lucknow, Uttar 
Pradesh 226031, India.

Lymphatic filariasis is a major debilitating disease, endemic in 72 countries 
putting more than 1.39 billion people at risk and 120 million are already 
infected. Despite the significant progress in chemotherapeutic advancements, 
there is still need for other measures like development of an effective vaccine 
or discovery of novel drug targets. In this study, structural and immunological 
characterization of independent phosphoglycerate mutase of filarial parasite 
Brugia malayi was carried out. Protein was found to be expressed in all major 
parasite life stages and as an excretory secretory product of adult parasites. 
Bm-iPGM also reacted to all the categories of human bancroftian patient's sera 
including endemic normals. In vivo immunological behaviour of protein was 
determined in immunized BALB/c mice followed by prophylactic analysis in BALB/c 
mice and Mastomys coucha. Immunization with Bm-iPGM led to generation of a mixed 
Th1/Th2 type immune response offering 58.2% protection against larval challenge 
in BALB/c and 65-68% protection in M. coucha. In vitro studies confirmed 
participation of anti-Bm-iPGM antibodies in killing of B. malayi infective 
larvae and microfilariae through ADCC mechanism. The present findings reveal 
potential immunoprotective nature of Bm-iPGM advocating its worth as an 
antifilarial vaccine candidate.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/590281
PMCID: PMC4100390
PMID: 25061608 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. PLoS One. 2014 Jul 25;9(7):e103597. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103597. 
eCollection 2014.

Location matters: trends in inequalities in child mortality in Indonesia. 
Evidence from repeated cross-sectional surveys.

Hodge A(1), Firth S(1), Marthias T(2), Jimenez-Soto E(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Population Health, The University of Queensland, Brisbane, 
Queensland, Australia.
(2)Center for Health Policy and Management, Faculty of Medicine, Gadjah Mada 
University, Yogyakarta, Indonesia.

BACKGROUND: Considerable improvements in life expectancy and other human 
development indicators in Indonesia are thought to mask considerable disparities 
between populations in the country. We examine the existence and extent of these 
disparities by measuring trends and inequalities in the under-five mortality 
rate and neonatal mortality rate across wealth, education and geography.
METHODOLOGY: Using data from seven waves of the Indonesian Demographic and 
Health Surveys, direct estimates of under-five and neonatal mortality rates were 
generated for 1980-2011. Absolute and relative inequalities were measured by 
rate differences and ratios, and where possible, slope and relative indices of 
inequality. Disparities were assessed by levels of rural/urban location, island 
groups, maternal education and household wealth.
FINDINGS: Declines in national rates of under-five and neonatal mortality have 
accorded with reductions of absolute inequalities in clusters stratified by 
wealth, maternal education and rural/urban location. Across these groups, 
relative inequalities have generally stabilised, with possible increases with 
respect to mortality across wealth subpopulations. Both relative and absolute 
inequalities in rates of under-five and neonatal mortality stratified by island 
divisions have widened.
CONCLUSION: Indonesia has made considerable gains in reducing under-five and 
neonatal mortality at a national level, with the largest reductions happening 
before the Asian financial crisis (1997-98) and decentralisation (2000). Hasty 
implementation of decentralisation reforms may have contributed to a slowdown in 
mortality rate reduction thereafter. Widening inequities between the most 
developed provinces of Java-Bali and those of other island groupings should be 
of particular concern for a country embarking on an ambitious plan for universal 
health coverage by 2019. A focus on addressing the key supply side barriers to 
accessing health care and on the social determinants of health in remote and 
disadvantaged regions will be essential for this plan to be realised.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0103597
PMCID: PMC4111602
PMID: 25061950 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: EJS is on the Editorial 
Board of PLOS ONE. This does not alter the authors' adherence to PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials.


868. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2014 Aug;20(8):844-50. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2014.20.8.844.

Concurrent use of comedications reduces adherence to antiretroviral therapy 
among HIV-infected patients.

Cantudo-Cuenca MR(1), Jiménez-Galán R, Almeida-Gonzalez CV, Morillo-Verdugo R.

Author information:
(1)Área de Gestión Sanitaria Sur Sevilla, Avenida de Bellavista s/n 41014, 
Seville, Spain. rosa_cantudo@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The use of highly active antiretroviral therapy has significantly 
reduced morbidity and mortality, thus increasing life expectancy of human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-infected individuals, transforming HIV into a 
chronic disease. Accordingly, there has been an increase in the number of 
comorbidities concomitantly present in these individuals and also an increased 
use of comedications, which may negatively impact antiretroviral therapy 
adherence. These factors can affect adherence to antiretroviral therapy. The 
role of the HIV clinical pharmacist is essential to achieve therapeutic 
objectives and enhance adherence.
OBJECTIVE: To determine the influence of the comorbidities and comedications on 
antiretroviral therapy adherence among HIV-infected patients receiving services 
from a clinical pharmacist.
METHODS: We conducted a prospective observational study that included 
HIV-infected outpatients who attended the pharmaceutical care office of a 
hospital pharmacy service, which initiated antiretroviral treatment between 
January 2002, and December 2011. The variables analyzed in the study were 
demographics (sex and age), HIV transmission mode, and the following variables 
at the time of comedication collection: hepatitis C virus or hepatitis B virus 
coinfection, HIV plasma viral load (copies/mL) and CD4+ T-cell count (cells/µL), 
Centers for Disease Control and Prevention HIV classification, number of 
hospital admissions and emergency room visits, and antiretroviral 
therapy-related features (type at baseline, treatment-naïve status, and number 
of changes since starting antiretroviral therapy). For follow-up at 12 months, 
antiretroviral therapy adherence was measured through pharmacy dispensing 
records and the Morisky Medication Adherence Scale (MMAS). Patients were 
considered adherent if antiretroviral therapy adherence through dispensing 
records was greater than 90%, and the MMAS score was 4. Other variables were 
number of comorbidities and number of comedications for other chronic diseases 
(non-HIV drugs). According to the number of comorbidities, patients were 
categorized as having multiple chronic conditions (polypathology) if they had 2 
or more chronic diseases. Polypharmacy was defined specifically as the use of 5 
or more prescription medications in a medication regimen. In addition, a 
complexity therapeutic index of antiretroviral therapy was calculated for each 
patient. We determined the risk of drug-related problems using the tool 
Predictor Index. To identify independent predictors of adherence to 
antiretroviral therapy, we performed a univariate logistic regression. 
Afterward, those variables that showed statistical significance in the 
univariate analysis and those with P  less than  0.25 were included in a 
multivariate model. The sample size was estimated by the Freeman equation.
RESULTS: We included 594 patients in the study (80.1% men, median age 47 years). 
In the univariate analysis, the variables that showed statistically significant 
relationships with antiretroviral therapy adherence were HIV transmission mode, 
detectable viral load, CD4+ T-cell count, AIDS-defining condition, hospital 
admission, antiretroviral therapy-naïve treatment, type of antiretroviral 
therapy, high risk of drug-related problems, polypathology, and polypharmacy. 
Multivariate analysis showed that independent predictors of nonadherence to 
antiretroviral therapy were HIV transmission by intravenous drug use (OR = 0.56, 
95% CI = 0.35-0.90), previous treatment with antiretroviral therapy (OR = 0.09, 
CI = 0.04-0.24), nontreatment changes (OR = 0.12, CI = 0.05-0.31), high risk of 
drug-related problems (OR = 0.38, CI = 0.23-0.63), and polypharmacy (OR = 0.36, 
CI = 0.21-0.61). The value of the Hosmer and Lemeshow test confirmed the 
validity of this model (P = 0.378).
CONCLUSIONS: Recently, the number of HIV-infected patients with polypharmacy has 
been higher, increasing the risk of nonadherence. Furthermore, previous 
treatment with antiretroviral therapy, HIV transmission by intravenous drug use, 
and high risk of drug-related problems are also associated with lower adherence.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2014.20.8.844
PMCID: PMC10438056
PMID: 25062078 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. Ann Rev Mar Sci. 2015;7:1-20. doi: 10.1146/annurev-marine-010814-015946.
Epub  2014 Jul 25.

Reflections on my career as a marine physical chemist, and tales of the deep.

Millero FJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Rosenstiel School of Marine and Atmospheric Science, University of Miami, 
Miami, Florida 33149; email: fmillero@rsmas.miami.edu.

This is a personal review of how one can apply the principles of physical 
chemistry to study the ocean and other natural waters. Physical chemistry is the 
study of chemical thermodynamics, kinetics, and molecular structure. My 
long-term interest in the chemistry of seawater is an extension of my early work 
on water and the interactions that occur in aqueous electrolyte solutions, which 
I began as part of my PhD research on the thermodynamics of organic acids in 
water. Over the years, I have attempted to apply the tools of physical chemistry 
to elucidate the structures of seawater, brines, lakes, and rivers. I have 
developed and continue to work on ionic interaction models that can be applied 
to all natural waters. Here, I reflect on how my students, postdocs, research 
assistants, and scientific colleagues have influenced my life, my career, and 
the field of marine physical chemistry. My hope was and is to use these tools to 
understand the molecular structures of natural waters.

DOI: 10.1146/annurev-marine-010814-015946
PMID: 25062406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


870. Ecotoxicol Environ Saf. 2014 Oct;108:135-41. doi:
10.1016/j.ecoenv.2014.06.023.  Epub 2014 Jul 23.

Cloning and expression of ophB gene encoding organophosphorus hydrolase from 
endophytic Pseudomonas sp. BF1-3 degrades organophosphorus pesticide 
chlorpyrifos.

Barman DN(1), Haque MA(1), Islam SM(2), Yun HD(3), Kim MK(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Plus Program), Gyeongsang National 
University, Chinju 660-701, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Plant Pathology, Patuakhali Science and Technology University, 
Dumki, Patuakhali 8602, Bangladesh.
(3)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Plus Program), Gyeongsang National 
University, Chinju 660-701, Republic of Korea; Research Institute of Agriculture 
and Life Science, Gyeongsang National University, Chinju 660-701, Republic of 
Korea.
(4)Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research and Extension Service, Chinju 660-360, 
Republic of Korea. Electronic address: goguma99@korea.kr.

Chlorpyrifos is an organophosphate pesticide that has adverse effect on animals 
and plants. We isolated endophytic bacterial strain, Pseudomonas sp. BF1-3, from 
balloon flower root which can hydrolyze chlorpyrifos. A gene (ophB) encoding a 
protein involved in chlorpyrifos degradation from this strain was cloned into 
Escherichia coli DH5α for confirming enzyme activity. After sequencing, total 
1024bp nucleotide sequences were found in the open reading frame of ophB. The 
chlorpyrifos degradation patterns by E. coli DH5α (ophB) were observed. During 
incubation in minimal salt (M9) medium supplemented with chlorpyrifos 
(100mgL(-1)), the E. coli DH5α harboring ophB degraded about 97% initial 
chlorpyrifos (100mgL(-1)) and accumulated 86mgL(-1) 3,5,6-trichloro-2-pyridinol 
(TCP) within 9 days. In addition, optical density (OD) of E. coli DH5α (ophB) 
culture at 600nm was increased from 0.172 to 1.118 within 2 days of inoculation 
in the chlorpyrifos supplemented M9 medium. The estimated molecular weight of 
purified OphB protein was determined to be 31.4kDa by SDS-PAGE. The OphB enzyme 
was most active at pH 8 and an optimal temperature around 35°C. These results 
indicate that endophytic bacteria are supposed to be useful for biological 
control of environments contaminated with pesticides.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ecoenv.2014.06.023
PMID: 25062445 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Qual Life Res. 2015 Feb;24(2):305-14. doi: 10.1007/s11136-014-0759-8. Epub
2014  Jul 26.

Developing a utility index for the Aberrant Behavior Checklist (ABC-C) for 
fragile X syndrome.

Kerr C(1), Breheny K, Lloyd A, Brazier J, Bailey DB Jr, Berry-Kravis E, Cohen J, 
Petrillo J.

Author information:
(1)ICON Patient Reported Outcomes, Seacourt Tower, West Way, Oxford, OX2 0JJ, 
UK, cicely.kerr@iconplc.com.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to develop a utility index (the ABC-UI) from the 
Aberrant Behavior Checklist-Community (ABC-C), for use in quantifying the 
benefit of emerging treatments for fragile X syndrome (FXS).
METHODS: The ABC-C is a proxy-completed assessment of behaviour and is a widely 
used measure in FXS. A subset of ABC-C items across seven dimensions was 
identified to include in health state descriptions. This item reduction process 
was based on item performance, factor analysis and Rasch analysis performed on 
an observational study dataset, and consultation with five clinical experts and 
a methodological expert. Dimensions were combined into health states using an 
orthogonal design and valued using time trade-off (TTO), with lead-time TTO 
methods used where TTO indicated a state valued as worse than dead. Preference 
weights were estimated using mean, individual level, ordinary least squares and 
random-effects maximum likelihood estimation [RE (MLE)] regression models.
RESULTS: A representative sample of the UK general public (n = 349; mean age 
35.8 years, 58.2% female) each valued 12 health states. Mean observed values 
ranged from 0.92 to 0.16 for best to worst health states. The RE (MLE) model 
performed best based on number of significant coefficients and mean absolute 
error of 0.018. Mean utilities predicted by the model covered a similar range to 
that observed.
CONCLUSIONS: The ABC-UI estimates a wide range of utilities from patient-level 
FXS ABC-C data, allowing estimation of FXS health-related quality of life impact 
for economic evaluation from an established FXS clinical trial instrument.

DOI: 10.1007/s11136-014-0759-8
PMCID: PMC4317522
PMID: 25063082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. J Am Soc Nephrol. 2015 Jan;26(1):183-91. doi: 10.1681/ASN.2013111236. Epub
2014  Jul 25.

Vascular access choice in incident hemodialysis patients: a decision analysis.

Drew DA(1), Lok CE(2), Cohen JT(3), Wagner M(4), Tangri N(5), Weiner DE(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology and.
(2)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, Toronto General Hospital, 
Toronto, Ontario, Canada;
(3)Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical 
Center, Boston, Massachusetts;
(4)Institute of Clinical Epidemiology and Biometry and Department of Medicine I, 
Division of Nephrology, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany; and.
(5)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology, Seven Oaks General Hospital, 
University of Manitoba, Winnipeg, Manitoba, Canada.
(6)Department of Medicine, Division of Nephrology and 
dweiner@tuftsmedicalcenter.org.

Comment in
    J Am Soc Nephrol. 2015 Jan;26(1):5-7.

Hemodialysis vascular access recommendations promote arteriovenous (AV) fistulas 
first; however, it may not be the best approach for all hemodialysis patients, 
because likelihood of successful fistula placement, procedure-related and 
subsequent costs, and patient survival modify the optimal access choice. We 
performed a decision analysis evaluating AV fistula, AV graft, and central 
venous catheter (CVC) strategies for patients initiating hemodialysis with a 
CVC, a scenario occurring in over 70% of United States dialysis patients. A 
decision tree model was constructed to reflect progression from hemodialysis 
initiation. Patients were classified into one of three vascular access choices: 
maintain CVC, attempt fistula, or attempt graft. We explicitly modeled 
probabilities of primary and secondary patency for each access type, with 
success modified by age, sex, and diabetes. Access-specific mortality was 
incorporated using preexisting cohort data, including terms for age, sex, and 
diabetes. Costs were ascertained from the 2010 USRDS report and Medicare for 
procedure costs. An AV fistula attempt strategy was found to be superior to AV 
grafts and CVCs in regard to mortality and cost for the majority of patient 
characteristic combinations, especially younger men without diabetes. Women with 
diabetes and elderly men with diabetes had similar outcomes, regardless of 
access type. Overall, the advantages of an AV fistula attempt strategy lessened 
considerably among older patients, particularly women with diabetes, reflecting 
the effect of lower AV fistula success rates and lower life expectancy. These 
results suggest that vascular access-related outcomes may be optimized by 
considering individual patient characteristics.

Copyright © 2015 by the American Society of Nephrology.

DOI: 10.1681/ASN.2013111236
PMCID: PMC4279737
PMID: 25063436 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Eur J Epidemiol. 2014 Sep;29(9):605-12. doi: 10.1007/s10654-014-9932-1. Epub
 2014 Jul 26.

Quantifying the health benefits of chronic disease prevention: a fresh approach 
using cardiovascular disease as an example.

Wald NJ(1), Morris JK.

Author information:
(1)Wolfson Institute of Preventive Medicine, Barts and The London School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, Queen Mary University of London, Charterhouse Square, 
London, EC1M 6BQ, UK, n.j.wald@qmul.ac.uk.

Erratum in
    Eur J Epidemiol. 2015 Jun;30(6):521-3.

Current methods of determining the proportion of people who benefit from a 
preventive intervention and the years of life gained can underestimate the 
former and overestimate the latter. We describe how to overcome these errors, 
using two examples relating to the prevention of myocardial infarction (MI) and 
stroke, one using a specified polypill daily from age 50 and another reducing 
salt intake in the population. Standard life table analysis was used to 
calculate the person-years of life gained without an MI or stroke, based on 
estimates of the incidence of these disorders in England and Wales. The 
proportion of individuals who benefit was taken as everyone who would, without 
treatment, have an MI or stroke (holistic model), rather than limiting the 
benefit to the proportion calculated from the relative risk reduction 
(reductionist model), as is current practice. Under the holistic model, 33% of 
people who take the polypill from age 50 benefit, gaining, on average, 8 years 
of life without an MI or stroke (19% and 14 years under the reductionist model). 
Estimates for reducing salt intake by 6 g/day are 33% and 2.8 years respectively 
under the holistic model (6% and 16 years under the reductionist model). In the 
prevention of disorders such as stroke by reducing exposure to causal factors 
such as blood pressure, the use of a holistic model corrects the underestimation 
of the proportion of people who benefit and the overestimation of their years of 
life gained associated with current methods.

DOI: 10.1007/s10654-014-9932-1
PMCID: PMC4160564
PMID: 25063437 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Cancer Epidemiol Biomarkers Prev. 2014 Oct;23(10):2009-2018. doi: 
10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-14-0614. Epub 2014 Jul 25.

Are HIV-infected men vulnerable to prostate cancer treatment disparities?

Murphy AB(#)(1), Bhatia R(#)(2), Martin IK(3), Klein DA(4), Hollowell CMP(5), 
Nyame Y(6), Dielubanza E(1), Achenbach C(7), Kittles RA(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.
(2)Institute for Public Health and Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, 
IL.
(3)Neuropsychiatry Section, Department of Psychiatry, University of Pennsylvania 
Medical Center, Philadelphia, PA.
(4)Feinberg School of Medicine, Northwestern University, Chicago, IL.
(5)Department of Surgery, Division of Urology, Cook County Health and Hospitals 
System, Chicago, IL.
(6)Glickman Urologic and Kidney Institute, Cleveland Clinic Foundation, 
Cleveland, OH.
(7)Department of Medicine, Division of Infectious Diseases, Northwestern 
University, Chicago, IL.
(8)Institute of Human Genetics, University of Illinois at Chicago, Chicago, IL.
(#)Contributed equally

BACKGROUND: HIV-infected (HIV(+)) men face cancer treatment disparities that 
impact outcome. Prostate cancer treatment and treatment appropriateness in 
HIV(+) men are unknown.
METHODS: We used electronic chart review to conduct a retrospective cohort study 
of 43 HIV(+) cases with prostate cancer and 86 age- and race-matched 
HIV-uninfected (HIV(-)) controls with prostate cancer, ages 40 to 79 years, from 
2001 to 2012. We defined treatment appropriateness using National Comprehensive 
Cancer Network guidelines and the Charlson comorbidity index (CCI) to estimate 
life expectancy.
RESULTS: Median age was 59.5 years at prostate cancer diagnosis. Median CD4(+) 
T-cell count was 459.5 cells/mm(3), 95.3% received antiretroviral therapy, and 
87.1% were virally suppressed. Radical prostatectomy was the primary treatment 
for 39.5% of HIV(+) and 71.0% of HIV(-) men (P = 0.004). Only 16.3% of HIV(+) 
versus 57.0% of HIV(-) men received open radical prostatectomy (P < 0.001). 
HIV(+) men received more radiotherapy (25.6% vs. 16.3%, P = 0.13). HIV was 
negatively associated with open radical prostatectomy (OR = 0.03, P = 0.007), 
adjusting for insurance and CCI. No men were undertreated. Fewer HIV(+) men 
received appropriate treatment (89.2% vs. 100%, P = 0.003), due to four 
overtreated HIV(+) men. Excluding AIDS from the CCI still resulted in fewer 
HIV(+) men receiving appropriate treatment (94.6% vs. 100%, P = 0.03).
CONCLUSION: Prostate cancer in HIV(+) men is largely appropriately treated. 
Under- or overtreatment may occur from difficulties in life expectancy 
estimation. HIV(+) men may receive more radiotherapy and fewer radical 
prostatectomies, specifically open radical prostatectomies.
IMPACT: Research on HIV/AIDS survival indices and etiologies and outcomes of 
this prostate cancer treatment disparity in HIV(+) men are needed.

©2014 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1055-9965.EPI-14-0614
PMCID: PMC4184974
PMID: 25063519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Expert Opin Drug Discov. 2014 Oct;9(10):1151-65. doi: 
10.1517/17460441.2014.941350. Epub 2014 Jul 25.

Designing drugs that encourage spinal cord injury healing.

Festoff BW(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Kansas Medical Center, Departments of Neurology, Physiology and 
Pharmacology , Kansas City, KS 66170 , USA.

INTRODUCTION: Spinal cord injury (SCI) occurs within seconds, but host responses 
may take years. Although life expectancy has increased, half of the survivors 
end up as paraplegics, with many indeed as quadriplegics. Host responses may 
have multiple effects ranging from inhibiting inflammation to preventing repair 
and regeneration. Efforts seek to translate exciting results from unsatisfactory 
animal models to humans.
AREAS COVERED: The author reviews the current basic and translational research 
for SCI treatment that: i) limits secondary injury; and ii) enhances endogenous 
repair and regeneration. The article provides an emphasis on pro-inflammatory 
factors (TNF-α, high-mobility group B protein 1) that are targeted to encourage 
healing.
EXPERT OPINION: Research in the coming years needs to be directed at therapeutic 
agents - whether drugs, biologics or biomaterials - that encourage repair and 
regeneration and, at the same time, limit cell death and axonal lesions. The 
author believes that the process of harnessing the power of these innate 
responses will remain the challenge for the future in the quest for effective 
therapeutic options.

DOI: 10.1517/17460441.2014.941350
PMID: 25063571 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Gerontologist. 2015 Dec;55(6):912-9. doi: 10.1093/geront/gnu072. Epub 2014
Jul  25.

Native Hawaiian and Pacific Islander Elders: What Gerontologists Should Know.

Braun KL(1), Kim BJ(2), Ka'opua LS(2), Mokuau N(2), Browne CV(2).

Author information:
(1)Public Health and 'Imi Hale Native Hawaiian Cancer Network, University of 
Hawai'i at Mānoa, Honolulu, Hawaii. Myron B. Thompson School of Social Work, 
University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, Honolulu, Hawaii. kbraun@hawaii.edu.
(2)Myron B. Thompson School of Social Work, University of Hawai'i at Mānoa, 
Honolulu, Hawaii.

Native Hawaiian and other Pacific Islanders (NHOPI) experience significant 
health disparities compared with other racial groups in the United States. Lower 
life expectancy has resulted in small proportions of elders in the population 
distribution of NHOPI, yet the number of NHOPI elders is growing. This article 
presents data on NHOPI elders and discusses possible reasons for continuing 
health disparities, including historical trauma, discrimination, changing 
lifestyle, and cultural values. We outline promising interventions with NHOPI 
and make suggestions for future research.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geront/gnu072
PMCID: PMC4668766
PMID: 25063936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. BMC Psychiatry. 2014 Jul 26;14:212. doi: 10.1186/s12888-014-0212-0.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of psychosocial intervention for early stage 
schizophrenia in China: a randomized, one-year study.

Zhang Z, Zhai J, Wei Q, Qi J, Guo X(1), Zhao J.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Mental Health, the Second Xiangya Hospital, Central South 
University, Key Laboratory of Psychiatry and Mental Health of Hunan Province, 
National Technology Institute of Psychiatry, No, 139 Renmin Middle Road, 
Changsha 410011, China. xfguocsu@163.com.

BACKGROUND: A combination of psychosocial interventions and medications has been 
highly recommended as a successful treatment package for schizophrenia. Its 
cost-effectiveness has not been fully explored yet. The aim of the present 
analysis was to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of antipsychotics combined with 
psychosocial treatment and treatment as usual for patients with early-stage 
schizophrenia.
METHOD: Patients with schizophrenia (N = 1, 268) were assigned to the 
combination of medication and psychosocial intervention or treatment as usual 
for up to 12 months. Cost analysis included direct medical costs, direct 
nonmedical costs and indirect costs. Quality-adjusted life year (QALY) ratings 
were assessed with Short- Form 6D.
RESULTS: Average monthly psychosocial intervention costs for combined treatment 
were higher than treatment as usual (p = 0.005), but no significant differences 
were found in direct costs, indirect costs, and total costs between two groups 
(all p-values ≥ 0.556). Combined treatment was associated with significant 
higher QALY ratings than treatment as usual (p = 0.039). Compared with treatment 
as usual, combined treatment resulted in a gain of 0.031 QALY ratings at an 
additional cost of US$ 56.4, yielding an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
US$ 1819.4 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite some limitations, our results supported that medication 
combined with psychosocial treatment was more cost-effective than treatment as 
usual for patients with early-stage schizophrenia.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: clinicaltrials.gov Identifier: NCT00654576.

DOI: 10.1186/s12888-014-0212-0
PMCID: PMC4149262
PMID: 25064681 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Rev Med Liege. 2014 May-Jun;69(5-6):318-22.

[Is there still an actual place for cardiovascular prevention in the elderly? 
Focus on antiplatelet and lipid lowering agents].

[Article in French]

Radermecker RR, Lancellotti P.

The increase in life expectancy raises the difficult question of the most 
appropriate preventive medical therapy in the elderly. Indeed, beyond 
physiological age, comorbidities, contraindications and life expectancy should 
be considered before starting any treatment. Cardiovascular disease remains the 
leading cause of death in our country, especially in the elderly. A preventive 
treatment aiming at controlling cardiovascular risk factors should be initiated 
based on the currently available evidence. We shall briefly discuss the value of 
cardiovascular prevention in the elderly and specifically focus on the use (or 
not) of antiplatelet agents and lipid-lowering drugs (i.e. statins).

PMID: 25065239 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Rev Med Liege. 2014 May-Jun;69(5-6):323-8.

[Diabetes mellitus in the elderly: from the epidemiological challenge to a 
personalized approach].

[Article in French]

Scheen AJ, Paquot N, Bauduceau B.

Diabetes mellitus is a common chronic disease in the elderly, being either a 
known disease with a long history (type 1 or even more often type 2 diabetes) 
and then frequently associated with various diabetic complications, or a 
recently diagnosed diabetes that may, however, have been ignored for a rather 
long time. In this latter case, diabetes may present as the occurrence or 
aggravation of one or several geriatric syndromes that overall result in a loss 
of autonomy. The global geriatric assessment, the estimation of life expectancy 
and the justification of glucose-lowering treatments should be performed at 
regular intervals in elderly diabetic people as they determine the right choice 
of glucose target levels and the best selection of glucose-lowering agents. 
Medications that can induce hypoglycaemia should ideally be avoided, especially 
in the frailty older population. The benefit-risk ratio of the proposed 
therapies should be analyzed first, and then regularly reassessed because of a 
potentially rapidly progressing condition. The recommended approach is a 
tailored management of diabetes that should integrate the clinical, functional 
and psycho-social aspects of elderly individuals.

PMID: 25065240 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. Rev Med Liege. 2014 May-Jun;69(5-6):377-81.

[Management of the elderly in the emergency department: a suitable solution or a 
second best choice?].

[Article in French]

Warzée F, Wotquenne P, D'Orio V, Ghuysen A.

The prolongation of life expectancy can only increase the proportion of elderly 
people in the future. The Emergency Departments being the main gateway to our 
hospitals, they will often have to admit such patients with their distinct 
characteristics. These individuals present with a more or less marked geriatric 
profile; it will be essential to determine their degree of frailty, a factor 
allowing to predict their survival and future level of autonomy. Evaluation 
tools have been developed to improve the management of these patients at 
important moments of their stay in the Emergency Department.

PMID: 25065249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. Rev Med Liege. 2014 May-Jun;69(5-6):402-6.

[End of life care in the elderly].

[Article in French]

Rorive G, Damas F, Petermans J.

The increase in life expectancy is associated with a good quality of life until 
a very old age. However, the unavoidable aging process eventually affects the 
autonomy of the patient and may force the individual to live in a nursing home. 
The alteration of sensorial functions and the increased number of degenerative 
diseases may finally induce a physical and psychological burden that might lead 
to resort to palliative care, end of life sedation, and in some cases, 
euthanasia.

PMID: 25065253 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


882. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2014 Jul;14(3):728-9. doi: 10.1111/ggi.12170.

Associated factors with gender gap in life expectancy: recommendation for the 
use of healthy life expectancy.

Kawada T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Hygiene and Public Health, Nippon Medical School, Tokyo, Japan.

Comment on
    Eur J Public Health. 2013 Aug;23(4):563-8.

DOI: 10.1111/ggi.12170
PMID: 25065403 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


883. Exp Cell Res. 2015 Jan 1;330(1):81-90. doi: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2014.07.013.
Epub  2014 Jul 24.

Sirtuin 6 protects the heart from hypoxic damage.

Maksin-Matveev A(1), Kanfi Y(1), Hochhauser E(2), Isak A(1), Cohen HY(1), 
Shainberg A(3).

Author information:
(1)The Mina and Everard Goodman, Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat Gan 52900, Israel.
(2)The Laboratory of the Department of Cardiothoracic Surgery, Felsenstein 
Medical Research Center, Rabin Medical Center, Petach Tikva, Israel.
(3)The Mina and Everard Goodman, Faculty of Life Sciences, Bar-Ilan University, 
Ramat Gan 52900, Israel. Electronic address: asher.shainberg@gmail.com.

Sirtuin 6 (SIRT6) is a protein associated with prolonged life expectancy. We 
investigated whether life extension is associated with cardioprotection against 
hypoxia. The proposed study is to develop approaches to reduce hypoxic damage 
through the use of the sirtuin pathway and to elucidate the mechanism involved. 
For that purpose we subjected cardiomyocytes from transgenic mice (TG) with 
over-expression of SIRT6, to hypoxic stress in cell cultures. We hypothesized 
that cardiomyocytes from transgenic mice subjected to prolonged hypoxia may 
release survival factors or fewer damage markers to protect them from hypoxic 
stress compared with wild type (WT) mice. Lactate dehydrogenase (LDH) and 
creatine kinase (CK) released to the medium and propidium iodide (PI) binding, 
were markedly decreased following hypoxia in TG cardiomyocytes. The protective 
mechanism of SIRT6 over-expression includes the activation of pAMPKα pathway, 
the increased protein level of B-cell lymphoma 2 (Bcl2), the inhibition of 
nuclear factor kappa-light-chain-enhancer of activated B cells (NFκB), the 
decrease of reactive oxygen species (ROS) and the reduction in the protein level 
of phospho-protein kinase B (pAkt) during hypoxia. Together, all these processes 
impede the necrosis/apoptosis pathways leading to the improved survival of 
cardiomyocytes following hypoxia, which might explain life extension.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.yexcr.2014.07.013
PMID: 25066211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


884. Exp Gerontol. 2014 Oct;58:96-103. doi: 10.1016/j.exger.2014.07.015. Epub
2014  Jul 25.

Lifespan regulation under axenic dietary restriction: a close look at the usual 
suspects.

Castelein N(1), Cai H(1), Rasulova M(1), Braeckman BP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biology, Ghent University, Proeftuinstraat 86 N1, 9000 Gent, 
Belgium.
(2)Department of Biology, Ghent University, Proeftuinstraat 86 N1, 9000 Gent, 
Belgium. Electronic address: Bart.Braeckman@UGent.be.

In Caenorhabditis elegans, there are several ways to impose dietary restriction 
(DR) all of which extend lifespan to a different degree. Until recently, the 
molecular mechanisms underlying the DR-mediated lifespan extension were 
completely unknown but extensive efforts led to the identification of several 
key players in this process. Culture in sterile axenic medium is a method of DR 
(ADR), leading to an impressive doubling of lifespan. Earlier, we established 
that ADR-mediated longevity is independent of Ins/IGF signaling and eat-2. The 
only gene reported to be indispensable for the ADR lifespan effect is cbp-1 
(Zhang et al., 2009) which was confirmed in this study. In an attempt to 
identify more genes involved in ADR-mediated longevity, we tested several 
candidate genes known to regulate lifespan extension in other DR regimens. We 
found that cup-4 is equally important as cbp-1 in ADR-mediated longevity and we 
identified some genes that may contribute to ADR-induced longevity, but are not 
required for the full lifespan effect.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.exger.2014.07.015
PMID: 25066271 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Physiotherapy. 2015 Mar;101(1):69-74. doi: 10.1016/j.physio.2014.04.010.
Epub  2014 Jun 19.

Preliminary evaluation of dorsal muscle activity during resisted cervical 
extension in patients with longstanding pain and disability following anterior 
cervical decompression and fusion surgery.

Peolsson A(1), Peolsson M(2), Jull G(3), Löfstedt T(2), Trygg J(2), O'Leary 
S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical and Health Sciences, Division of Physiotherapy, Faculty 
of Health Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, Sweden; NHMRC CCRE (Spinal 
Pain, Injury and Health), The University of Queensland, Brisbane, Australia. 
Electronic address: Anneli.Peolsson@liu.se.
(2)Computational Life Science Cluster, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden; Department 
of Chemistry, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.
(3)NHMRC CCRE (Spinal Pain, Injury and Health), The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Australia.
(4)NHMRC CCRE (Spinal Pain, Injury and Health), The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Australia; Physiotherapy Department, Royal Brisbane and Women's 
Hospital, Queensland Health, Queensland, Australia.

OBJECTIVES: To compare mechanical activity (deformation and deformation rate) of 
the dorsal neck muscles between individuals with longstanding symptoms after 
anterior cervical decompression and fusion (ACDF) surgery and healthy controls.
DESIGN: Preliminary cross-sectional study.
