leukocytes is always present as in any severe trauma, even if there are no 
immediate signs of infection of the electrocution lesions. Taking into account 
that the electrocution lesion as well as the one caused by burning destroys the 
natural defense barrier represented by the skin, the infection risk is major and 
that is why the therapeutic protocol stipulates the immediate establishment of a 
treatment with broad-spectrum antibiotics or with an association of antibiotics. 
The increase of the leukocytes level under antibiotics treatment involves either 
the contamination with a germ that is not sensitive to the respective antibiotic 
or the persistence of necrosis areas which secondarily infect, and where 
antibiotic penetration is very low. Therefore, the excision of the compromised 
tissues is an absolute necessity. In terms of prognostic, the increase of the 
leukocytes number signified an insufficient excision and indicated the resuming 
and deepening of the excisions. Taking into account that the patient has been 
admitted through the ICU service, the risk of contracting severe infections with 
selected germs is real. Another risk is that of infection with Clostridium 
difficile following the prolonged utilization of broad-spectrum antibiotics, 
especially in patients with associated diseases and reduced immunity per primam. 
The existence of completely separate circuits should solve the problem of 
contamination with bacteria of selected species; unfortunately, in our cases, we 
have faced this problem and the utilization of last choice antibiotics 
(Imipenem, Vancomycin, Targocid, etc.) as well as the association of 
immunoglobulins was necessary. All the patients admitted in the study received 
anti-thromboxane drugs in order to limit the ischemic process at tissue level. 
Despite the efforts we have made, the lack of blood and its derivatives or 
simply the negligence in patient monitoring, allowed the decrease, even 
transient of the Hb level, sometimes only for a few hours, but enough to allow 
the deepening of the ischemic lesions. Excisions were carried out in all the 
patients in emergency or even amputations of the extremities, with the wish to 
limit the extension of the ischemic lesions and the resorption of cell 
degradation products. The amputations performed in emergency did not always 
represent a saving solution; however, they remained the most effective measures 
when they were carried out immediately after the accident and obviously in 
viable tissue. The increase of CK is not an indicative factor itself in making 
re-excisions but orients the therapeutic approach, the utilization of the 
dialysis when the values do not decrease by treatment for renal support and the 
forcing of diuresis is required. The normalization of CK indicates the time when 
we can start the covering of the defects resulted as a consequence of the 
excisions. The level of the leukocytes represents both a prognostic factor and 
an indicative factor for the re-excision of the ischemic areas. An increased 
level under antibiotic therapy signifies either an incomplete excision or the 
contamination with flora resisting to the antibiotic that has been used. In the 
light of findings in the caring of the patients with electrocutions, I propose 
several caring/assessment protocols for the severe electrically injured patient.

PMCID: PMC4197509
PMID: 25408731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures and Conflicts of Interest: None


907. J Med Life. 2014 Sep 15;7(3):421-7. Epub 2014 Sep 25.

Self-ingested intraduodenal foreign bodies--expectancy or surgical sanction?

Petrea S(1), Brezean I(1).

Author information:
(1)"I. Juvara" Surgery Clinic, "Dr. I. Cantacuzino" Hospital, Bucharest.

Self-harm is a frequent pathology amongst psychiatric patients and in the 
penitentiary environment. Multiple self-aggression types are described, but, by 
far, the practice most frequently met inside the Romanian penitentiary 
environment is foreign body (FB) ingestion. The paper aims to show aspects 
pertaining to the presence of intraduodenal foreign bodies, both in simple cases 
and in cases that ended with a perforation, using a number of 47 cases 
registered between 2003 and 2010 in "Rahova" Penitentiary Hospital. The paper 
also focused on particular aspects linked to intraduodenal foreign body surgical 
accessibility.

PMCID: PMC4233453
PMID: 25408769 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosures and Conflicts of Interest: None


908. Acta Med Port. 2014 Sep-Oct;27(5):615-24. doi: 10.20344/amp.5257. Epub 2014
Oct  31.

Economic analysis of rivaroxaban for the treatment and long-term prevention of 
venous thromboembolism in Portugal.

Santos IF(1), Pereira S(1), McLeod E(2), Guillermin AL(2), Chatzitheofilou I(2).

Author information:
(1)Bayer Portugal, S.A. Carnaxide. Portugal.
(2)IMS Health. London. United Kingdom.

INTRODUCTION: Venous thromboembolism is a burden on healthcare systems. The aim 
of this analysis was to project the long-term costs and outcomes for rivaroxaban 
compared to standard of care (enoxaparin/warfarin) in Portugal for the treatment 
and secondary prevention of venous thromboembolism.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A Markov model was developed using event rates extracted 
from the EINSTEIN trials supplemented with literature-based estimates of 
longer-term outcomes. Core outcomes included per patient costs and 
quality-adjusted life years reported separately per treatment arm and 
incrementally, as well as cost per quality-adjusted life years gained. The deep 
vein thrombosis and pulmonary embolism indications were analysed separately. The 
analyses were conducted from the Portuguese societal perspective and over a 
5-year time horizon. Costs and outcomes were discounted at a 5% annual rate. 
Several scenario analyses were undertaken to explore the impact on results of 
varying key modeling assumptions.
RESULTS: Rivaroxaban treatment was associated with cost-savings for the 
treatment of deep vein thrombosis and was both cost-saving and more effective 
for the treatment of pulmonary embolism, compared with enoxaparin/warfarin.
DISCUSSION: The results of the sensitivity and scenario analyses further 
supported that rivaroxaban is a cost-effective alternative to standard of care 
treatment. The use of an expert panel to derive some input values and the lack 
of Portuguese specific utilities were the main limitations.
CONCLUSION: Rivaroxaban represents an efficient alternative to using 
enoxaparin/warfarin in Portugal, as it's associated with lower costs (for both 
indications) and greater quality adjusted life years (for the pulmonary embolism 
indication).

Publisher: Introdução: O tromboembolismo venoso representa uma carga substancial 
para os sistemas de saúde. O objectivo foi estimar os resultados clínicos e 
económicos a longo-prazo associados a rivaroxabano relativamente à prática 
clínica (enoxaparina/varfarina) no tratamento e prevenção secundária de 
tromboembolismo venoso em Portugal.Material e Métodos: Foi desenvolvido um 
modelo de Markov baseado nos ensaios clínicos EINSTEIN e dados da literatura 
para complicações a longo-prazo. Foram avaliados custos e anos de vida ajustados 
pela qualidade de vida totais e incrementais e rácio custo-efectividade 
incremental. As indicações trombose venosa profunda e embolismo pulmonar foram 
analisados separadamente. Adoptou-se a perspectiva da sociedade portuguesa e um 
horizonte temporal de cinco anos. Aplicou-se uma taxa de actualização de cinco 
por cento para custos e consequências. Foram desenvolvidas análises de 
sensibilidade e diversas análises de cenário para avaliação da variação dos 
resultados em função de determinados pressupostos.Resultados: Rivaroxabano está 
associado a menores custos na trombose venosa profunda e constitui uma 
alternativa associada a menores custos e a maior eficácia no tratamento de 
embolismo pulmonar, relativamente a enoxaparina/varfarina.Discussão: O recurso a 
um painel de peritos para identificação de alguns recursos e a ausência de 
utilidades específicas para Portugal constituem as principais 
limitações.Conclusão: Rivaroxabano constitui uma alternativa eficaz, estando 
associado a menores custos (para ambas as indicações) e a mais anos de vida 
ajustados pela qualidade de vida (para embolismo pulmonar) relativamente a 
enoxaparina/varfarina em Portugal.

DOI: 10.20344/amp.5257
PMID: 25409218 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


909. Expert Rev Hematol. 2015 Feb;8(1):9-18. doi: 10.1586/17474086.2015.983065.
Epub  2014 Nov 20.

Panobinostat: a review of trial results and future prospects in multiple 
myeloma.

Libby EN(1), Becker PS, Burwick N, Green DJ, Holmberg L, Bensinger WI.

Author information:
(1)University of Washington School of Medicine - Medical Oncology, 825 Eastlake 
Ave E, Seattle, WA 98109, USA.

Multiple myeloma is an incurable often devastating disease that is responsible 
for 1-2% of all cancers. Multiple myeloma is the second most common hematologic 
malignancy. Over the past two decades, advances in therapy have doubled life 
expectancy. Unfortunately, all patients ultimately relapse. Novel agents 
(immunomodulatory drugs and proteasome inhibitors) have changed the outlook for 
patients, but further breakthroughs are needed. Epigenetic treatments offer 
potential for advancing therapy by modifying oncogene responses. The acetylation 
status of various proteins can affect the availability of chromatin for 
transcription. This response may be modulated epigenetically to advantage using 
histone deacetylase inhibitors like panobinostat.

DOI: 10.1586/17474086.2015.983065
PMID: 25410127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


910. Cancer. 2014 Dec 1;120(23):3591. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29128.

Extreme obesity may shorten life expectancy up to 14 years.

Printz C.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.29128
PMID: 25410488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


911. Mem Inst Oswaldo Cruz. 2014 Nov;109(7):879-86. doi: 10.1590/0074-0276140136.
 Epub 2014 Aug 22.

Estimation of Aedes aegypti (Diptera: Culicidae) population size and adult male 
survival in an urban area in Panama.

Neira M(1), Lacroix R(1), Cáceres L(2), Kaiser PE(1), Young J(2), Pineda L(2), 
Black I(1), Sosa N(2), Nimmo D(1), Alphey L(1), McKemey A(1).

Author information:
(1)Oxitec Ltd, Oxford, UK.
(2)Gorgas Memorial Institute for Health Studies, Panama City, Panama.

Traditional mosquito control strategies rely heavily on the use of chemical 
insecticides. However, concerns about the efficiency of traditional control 
methods, environmental impact and emerging pesticide resistance have highlighted 
the necessity for developing innovative tools for mosquito control. Some novel 
strategies, including release of insects carrying a dominant lethal gene 
(RIDL®), rely on the sustained release of modified male mosquitoes and therefore 
benefit from a thorough understanding of the biology of the male of the species. 
In this report we present the results of a mark-release-recapture study aimed 
at: (i) establishing the survival in the field of laboratory-reared, wild-type 
male Aedes aegypti and (b) estimating the size of the local adult Ae. aegypti 
population. The study took place in Panama, a country where recent increases in 
the incidence and severity of dengue cases have prompted health authorities to 
evaluate alternative strategies for vector control. Results suggest a life 
expectancy of 2.3 days for released male mosquitoes (confidence interval: 
1.78-2.86). Overall, the male mosquito population was estimated at 58 males/ha 
(range 12-81 males/ha), which can be extrapolated to an average of 0.64 
pupae/person for the study area. The practical implications of these results are 
discussed.

DOI: 10.1590/0074-0276140136
PMCID: PMC4296492
PMID: 25410991 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


912. Rev Biol Trop. 2014 Sep;62(3):869-76. doi: 10.15517/rbt.v62i3.14058.

Incidence and risk factors for cognitive impairment in rural elderly populations 
in Costa Rica.

Nadel JL, Ulate D.

Risk factors for the onset of cognitive impairment in Costa Rica are not well 
understood, despite a substantial elderly population stemming from a higher than 
average life expectancy for the western hemisphere. To investigate the risk 
factors that predict the onset of cognitive impairment in the rural elderly of 
Costa Rica, a modified version of the Mini Mental State Exam-designed for 
illiterate populations-was administered to 90 elderly inhabitants of San Carlos, 
Alajuela, Costa Rica between April and May of 2011. Subsequently, each 
participant took a structured interview assessing viability of risk factors and 
behaviors potentially contributing to a diagnosis of cognitive impairment. 
Results showed strong dependencies between age (p = 0.0001), education level (p 
= 0.0095), the ability to read (p = 0.0001) and write (p = 0.0153), frequency of 
reading (p = 0.0011), use of puzzles and mind games (p < 0.0001), vocation (p = 
0.0225), area of residence (p < 0.0001), comorbid mental dis- eases (p = 
0.0005), history of stroke or brain trauma (p = 0.0104), urinary or renal 
problems (p = 0.0443), consistent cooking practices (p = 0.0262) and number of 
living companions (p = 0.0299) in susceptibility for developing cognitive 
impairment. The study concluded that high intellectual use, or lack thereof, 
during the lifetime of a person was a predictor for cognitive status later in 
life. In addition, comorbid mental disorders, including neu- rological trauma 
due to stroke, impeded normal cognitive function. Future research should examine 
incidence and risk factors of cognitive impairment in urban, more educated 
populations.

DOI: 10.15517/rbt.v62i3.14058
PMID: 25412519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


913. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2015 Aug;127(15-16):645-8. doi:
10.1007/s00508-014-0651-0.  Epub 2014 Nov 21.

Thigh abscess as an extension of psoas abscess: the first manifestation of 
perforated appendiceal adenocarcinoma: case report.

Petrovic I(1), Pecin I, Prutki M, Augustin G, Nedic A, Gojevic A, Potocki K, 
Reiner Z.

Author information:
(1)Division of Abdominal Surgery, Clinical University Hospital Centre "Zagreb", 
Kispaticeva 12, 10000, Zagreb, Croatia.

A 65-year-old woman presented with a painful, swollen, red right thigh and the 
mild pain in the right abdomen without nausea, vomiting or diarrhoea that lasted 
for 1 week. Laboratory findings revealed elevated inflammatory markers. Computed 
tomography of the right thigh, abdomen and pelvis showed an abscess formation in 
the adductor muscles draining from the abscess that completely occupied the 
right retroperitoneum up to the diaphragm, dissecting downward through the 
inguinal canal. Appendix was enlarged with an appendicolith. Emergent 
exploratory laparotomy revealed a perforated appendix with psoas abscess. 
Pathohistological diagnosis revealed adenocarcinoma of the appendix. Thigh 
abscess is an uncommon condition with insidious clinical presentation. 
Therefore, early recognition and setting of the correct diagnosis enables 
adequate treatment avoiding additional complications and in some cases potential 
life-threatening conditions. When upper leg abscess is suspected or proven 
abdominal examination is mandatory.

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-014-0651-0
PMID: 25412593 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


914. J Gerontol B Psychol Sci Soc Sci. 2015 Jul;70(4):639-49. doi: 
10.1093/geronb/gbu158. Epub 2014 Nov 20.

Longer lives, sicker lives? Increased longevity and extended disability among 
Mexican-origin elders.

Angel RJ(1), Angel JL(2), Hill TD(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, The University of Texas at Austin.
(2)Department of Sociology, The University of Texas at Austin. Lyndon B. Johnson 
School of Public Affairs, The University of Texas at Austin. 
jangel@austin.utexas.edu.
(3)Department of Sociology, University of Arizona.

OBJECTIVES: (a) To identify factors associated with different patterns of 
functional decline in a longitudinal sample of older Mexican-origin individuals, 
and (b) to determine the proportions of life after age 65 characterized by 
serious functional impairment.
METHODOLOGY: We use the Hispanic Established Populations for Epidemiologic 
Studies of the Elderly to examine changes in objective Performance Oriented 
Mobility Assessments in a cohort of 3,050 Mexican-origin elders initially 
interviewed in 1993/1994 and recontacted 6 times over 17 years. This sample 
combined with an additional cohort of 902 individuals 75 and older added at wave 
4 in 2004/2005 (combined sample = 3,952) is used in life table analyses to 
estimate the number of years after 65 characterized by serious functional 
impairment.
RESULTS: Three distinct patterns of functional decline emerge: (a) high initial 
functioning followed by decline, but not to the level of disability (48%); (b) 
moderate initial functioning followed by decline to the level of disability 
(37.5%); and (c) initial disability followed by continued poor functioning 
(14.5%). Life table analyses reveal that subjects spent over half of the period 
after 65 with serious functional limitations. Significant gender and nativity 
differentials emerge.
DISCUSSION: Protracted morbidity that accompanies increases in life expectancy 
has serious implications for the physical, social, and economic well-being of 
older individuals and their families, as well as for health and long-term care 
policy.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/geronb/gbu158
PMCID: PMC4542889
PMID: 25412615 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


915. Immunol Res. 2015 Feb;61(1-2):63-9. doi: 10.1007/s12026-014-8583-3.

Epidermolysis bullosa and the partnership with autoimmunity: what should we 
assimilate?

Esposito S(1), Guez S, Manzoni F, Bosco A, Rigante D.

Author information:
(1)Pediatric Highly Intensive Care Unit, Department of Pathophysiology and 
Transplantation, Fondazione IRCCS Ca' Granda Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 
Università degli Studi di Milano, Via Commenda 9, 20122, Milan, Italy, 
susanna.esposito@unimi.it.

Bullous skin diseases are characterized by genetic abnormalities related to 
structural epidermal proteins or organ-specific autoantibodies against the same 
proteins and are revealed by blister formation on skin or mucous membranes, with 
differences in blister depth, morphology, and topography. Both inherited and 
autoimmune forms of these disorders can be framed in the context of 
epidermolysis bullosa. Their clinical spectrum varies from early lethal to mild 
variants with normal life expectancy, and several distinct phenotypes differ for 
age of onset, extent, location and depth of skin and mucous lesions, or scarring 
severity. Recently, different inflammatory processes blended with autoimmune 
phenomena have been demonstrated in both inherited and acquired epidermolysis 
bullosa, revealing that this overlapping might cause substantial implications in 
terms of disease course and outcome. Although several associations between 
epidermolysis bullosa in its different variants and autoimmune diseases have 
been reported, it is not yet completely clear how it happens and why this 
association occurs in only some patients. Autoantibodies are the primary cause 
of the disease in acquired epidermolysis bullosa, whereas they can be produced 
as a secondary event due to genetically determined skin damage in inherited 
epidermolysis bullosa, contributing significantly to the worsening of the 
disease. The awareness of this overlap may help in identifying new therapeutic 
approaches with immunosuppressive drugs that could have a significant impact in 
terms of prognosis.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-014-8583-3
PMID: 25412732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


916. Clin Transl Oncol. 2015 Jan;17(1):85-6. doi: 10.1007/s12094-014-1256-9. Epub
 2014 Nov 21.

Indirect comparisons in cost-effectiveness analysis: are we being naïve?

Martin-Broto J(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical Oncologist, Universitary Hospital Virgen del Rocío, Sevilla, Spain, 
jmartin@mustbesevilla.org.

DOI: 10.1007/s12094-014-1256-9
PMID: 25413140 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


917. Am J Case Rep. 2014 Nov 21;15:508-13. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.891301.

Resolution of an acute aortic syndrome with aortic valve insufficiency post-PCI.

de Barros e Silva PG(1), Aquino T(1), Resende MV(1), Richter I(1), Barros CM(1), 
Andrioli VG(1), Baruzzi AC(1), Medeiros CC(1), Furlan V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Research, Hospital Totalcor, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Acute aortic syndrome is the modern term that includes aortic 
dissection, intramural hematoma, and symptomatic aortic ulcer. Iatrogenic 
coronary artery dissection extending to the aorta during percutaneous coronary 
intervention is a very rare but life-threatening complication. Despite some 
reports of spontaneous recovery, most of these patients are treated surgically 
as a spontaneous aortic dissection, especially if there is a complication of the 
aortic lesion.
CASE REPORT: A 52-year-old white female was submitted to an angioplasty in the 
right coronary without success and the procedure was complicated by a dissection 
in aortic root with progressive extension to the ascending aorta. This lesion 
deformed the aortic valve, leaving it with an acute moderate regurgitation. 
Because of current use of clopidogrel and clinical stability of the patient, the 
local Heart Team decided to withdrawn this antiplatelet for 5 days before 
surgery despite the risk related to the aortic syndrome. A new echocardiogram 3 
days later showed that the hematoma was reabsorbed with improvement of the 
aortic insufficiency. An angiotomography confirmed the reabsorption of the 
hematoma. The surgery was canceled and the patient was maintained in a 
conservative treatment and discharged. Seventeen months later, she was 
re-evaluated and was still asymptomatic without aortic regurgitation in the 
echocardiogram and showing progressive regression of the aortic hematoma in the 
tomography.
CONCLUSIONS: Despite the conservative treatment, this case of iatrogenic aortic 
dissection complicated by an acute aortic regurgitation had a good evolution in 
a follow-up of 17 months.

DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.891301
PMCID: PMC4243591
PMID: 25413612 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


918. BMC Public Health. 2014 Nov 20;14:1193. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-1193.

The impact of the major causes of death on life expectancy in China: a 60-year 
longitudinal study.

Liu P, Li C, Wang Y, Zeng W, Wang H, Wu H, Lu J, Sun M, Li X, Chang F, Hao M(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Health Development Strategies, Fudan University, 
Shanghai 200032, China. haomo03@fudan.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: In the 12th Five-Year Plan, the Chinese government set the goal of 
increasing life expectancy by one year. The purpose of this study is to examine 
the impact of major causes of death on the life expectancy of the Chinese people 
between 1950 and 2010 and predict changing trends to identify major issues 
requiring future attention.
METHODS: A continuous database organised by population and death data on 
diseases by age group between 1950 and 2010 were created from A Province in 
Eastern China. The diseases were classified into four categories by the 
International Classification of Diseases-10 (ICD-10): infectious and parasitic 
diseases, chronic diseases, accidental injuries, and maternal diseases. 
Potential gains in life expectancy (PGLEs) were applied to reflect the impact on 
life expectancy caused by deaths from various diseases, by using the 
cause-eliminated life table.
RESULTS: The PGLEs of infectious and parasitic diseases decreased from 15.59 
years in 1950, to 0.07 year in 2010, and have remained low since 2000. However, 
the PGLEs of chronic diseases increased from 8.70 years in 1950, to 13.36 years 
in 2010, and indicated an increasing future trend. The two opposite trends 
exhibited a 'scissors-like difference'. The proportion of accidental injuries 
and maternal diseases in the death spectrum was low. The PGLEs of accidental 
injuries decreased from 2.95 years in 1950, to 0.86 year in 2010, maintaining a 
low level, while the PGLEs of maternal diseases dropped from 0.56 to 0.002 year 
during the same period, approaching zero.
CONCLUSIONS: The findings of this study provide useful information, which could 
contribute to a more effective allocation of public health programmes. In recent 
years, chronic diseases and accidental injuries have emerged as major factors 
influencing life expectancy. Primary and secondary prevention actions, such as 
public education, modification of behaviours, and introduction of safety 
measures should be emphasised in efforts to promote life expectancy. The 
morbidity and mortality rates of infectious, parasitic, and maternal diseases 
should be maintained at low levels.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-1193
PMCID: PMC4246474
PMID: 25413667 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


919. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 21;9(11):e113030. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113030. 
eCollection 2014.

Streamlining DNA barcoding protocols: automated DNA extraction and a new cox1 
primer in arachnid systematics.

Vidergar N(1), Toplak N(2), Kuntner M(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Biology, Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of 
Sciences and Arts, Ljubljana, Slovenia; Molecular Virology lab, International 
Centre for Genetic Engineering and Biotechnology-ICGEB, Trieste, Italy.
(2)Omega d.o.o., Ljubljana, Slovenia.
(3)Institute of Biology, Scientific Research Centre of the Slovenian Academy of 
Sciences and Arts, Ljubljana, Slovenia; Centre for Behavioural Ecology & 
Evolution, College of Life Sciences, Hubei University, Wuhan, China; National 
Museum of Natural History, Smithsonian Institution, Washington, DC, United 
States of America.

BACKGROUND: DNA barcoding is a popular tool in taxonomic and phylogenetic 
studies, but for most animal lineages protocols for obtaining the barcoding 
sequences--mitochondrial cytochrome C oxidase subunit I (cox1 AKA CO1)--are not 
standardized. Our aim was to explore an optimal strategy for arachnids, focusing 
on the species-richest lineage, spiders by (1) improving an automated DNA 
extraction protocol, (2) testing the performance of commonly used primer 
combinations, and (3) developing a new cox1 primer suitable for more efficient 
alignment and phylogenetic analyses.
METHODOLOGY: We used exemplars of 15 species from all major spider clades, 
processed a range of spider tissues of varying size and quality, optimized 
genomic DNA extraction using the MagMAX Express magnetic particle processor-an 
automated high throughput DNA extraction system-and tested cox1 amplification 
protocols emphasizing the standard barcoding region using ten routinely employed 
primer pairs.
RESULTS: The best results were obtained with the commonly used Folmer primers 
(LCO1490/HCO2198) that capture the standard barcode region, and with the 
C1-J-2183/C1-N-2776 primer pair that amplifies its extension. However, C1-J-2183 
is designed too close to HCO2198 for well-interpreted, continuous sequence data, 
and in practice the resulting sequences from the two primer pairs rarely 
overlap. We therefore designed a new forward primer C1-J-2123 60 base pairs 
upstream of the C1-J-2183 binding site. The success rate of this new primer 
(93%) matched that of C1-J-2183.
CONCLUSIONS: The use of C1-J-2123 allows full, indel-free overlap of sequences 
obtained with the standard Folmer primers and with C1-J-2123 primer pair. Our 
preliminary tests suggest that in addition to spiders, C1-J-2123 will also 
perform in other arachnids and several other invertebrates. We provide optimal 
PCR protocols for these primer sets, and recommend using them for systematic 
efforts beyond DNA barcoding.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113030
PMCID: PMC4240537
PMID: 25415202 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: One of the authors (N.T.) 
is employed by a commercial and research company, Omega d.o.o., Slovenia, in its 
research department. The company supported this research by making available 
reagents and this researcher's time, and by contributing towards covering the 
PLOS ONE open access fee for this article's publication. This does not alter the 
authors' adherence to PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


920. Br J Nutr. 2015 Jan;113 Suppl:S18-22. doi: 10.1017/S0007114514003237. Epub
2014  Nov 21.

Impact of nutrition on the ageing process.

Mathers JC(1).

Author information:
(1)Human Nutrition Research Centre, Institute for Ageing and Health, Newcastle 
University, Campus for Ageing and Vitality,Newcastle upon TyneNE4 5PL,UK.

Human life expectancy has been increasing steadily for almost two centuries and 
is now approximately double what it was at the beginning of the Victorian era. 
This remarkable demographic change has been accompanied by a shift in disease 
prevalence so that age is now the major determinant of most common diseases. The 
challenge is to enhance healthy ageing and to reduce the financial and social 
burdens associated with chronic ill health in later life. Studies in model 
organisms have demonstrated that the ageing phenotype arises because of the 
accumulation of macromolecular damage within the cell and that the ageing 
process is plastic. Nutritional interventions that reduce such damage, or which 
enhance the organism's capacity to repair damage, lead to greater longevity and 
to reduced risk of age-related diseases. Dietary (energy) restriction increases 
lifespan in several model organisms, but it is uncertain whether it is effective 
in primates, including humans. However, excess energy storage leading to 
increased adiposity is a risk factor for premature mortality and for age-related 
diseases so that obesity prevention is likely to be a major public health route 
to healthy ageing. In addition, adherence to healthy eating patterns, such as 
the Mediterranean dietary pattern, is associated with longevity and reduced risk 
of age-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1017/S0007114514003237
PMID: 25415221 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


921. J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2015 Feb 1;68(2):152-61. doi: 
10.1097/QAI.0000000000000426.

Cost-effectiveness of genotype testing for primary resistance in Brazil.

Luz PM(1), Morris BL, Grinsztejn B, Freedberg KA, Veloso VG, Walensky RP, Losina 
E, Nakamura YM, Girouard MP, Sax PE, Struchiner CJ, Paltiel AD.

Author information:
(1)*Instituto de Pesquisa Clinica Evandro Chagas, Fundação Oswaldo Cruz, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil; †Division of General Medicine, ‡The Medical Practice Evaluation 
Center, and the §Division of Infectious Disease, Massachusetts General Hospital, 
Boston, MA; ‖Harvard University Center for AIDS Research, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, MA; ¶Department of Epidemiology, Boston University School of 
Public Health, Boston, MA; #Department of Health Policy and Management, Harvard 
School of Public Health, Boston, MA; **Division of Infectious Disease, 
Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA; ††Department 
of Orthopedic Surgery, Brigham and Women's Hospital, Boston, MA; ‡‡Department of 
Biostatistics, Boston University School of Public Health, Boston, MA; and §§Yale 
School of Public Health, New Haven, CT.

Comment in
    J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2016 Feb 1;71(2):e54-6.
    J Acquir Immune Defic Syndr. 2016 Feb 1;71(2):e56.

OBJECTIVE: HIV genotype-resistance testing can help identify more effective 
antiretroviral treatment (ART) regimens for patients, substantially increasing 
the likelihood of viral suppression and immune recovery. We sought to evaluate 
the cost-effectiveness of genotype-resistance testing before first-line ART 
initiation in Brazil.
DESIGN: We used a previously published microsimulation model of HIV disease 
(CEPAC-International) and data from Brazil to compare the clinical impact, 
costs, and cost-effectiveness of initial genotype testing (Genotype) with no 
initial genotype testing (No genotype).
METHODS: Model parameters were derived from the HIV Clinical Cohort at the 
Evandro Chagas Clinical Research Institute and from published data, using 
Brazilian sources whenever possible. Baseline patient characteristics included 
69% male, mean age of 36 years (SD, 10 years), mean CD4 count of 347 per 
microliter (SD, 300/µL) at ART initiation, annual ART costs from 2012 US $1400 
to US $13,400, genotype test cost of US $230, and primary resistance prevalence 
of 4.4%. Life expectancy and costs were discounted 3% per year. Genotype was 
defined as "cost-effective" compared with No Genotype if its incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was less than 3 times the 2012 Brazilian per capita GDP 
of US $12,300.
RESULTS: Compared with No genotype, Genotype increased life expectancy from 
18.45 to 18.47 years and reduced lifetime cost from US $45,000 to $44,770; thus, 
in the base case, Genotype was cost saving. Genotype was cost-effective at 
primary resistance prevalence as low as 1.4% and remained cost-effective when 
subsequent-line ART costs decreased to 30% of baseline value. Cost-inefficient 
results were observed only when simultaneously holding multiple parameters to 
extremes of their plausible ranges.
CONCLUSIONS: Genotype-resistance testing in ART-naive individuals in Brazil will 
improve survival and decrease costs and should be incorporated into HIV 
treatment guidelines in Brazil.

DOI: 10.1097/QAI.0000000000000426
PMCID: PMC4294967
PMID: 25415289 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: P.M.L., B.G., and C.J.S. acknowledge funding 
from the National Council of Technological and Scientific Development (CNPq) and 
the Research Funding Agency of the State of Rio de Janeiro (FAPERJ). P.E.S. is a 
consultant to Abbott, BMS, Gilead, GSK, Merck, and Janssen and receives grant 
support from BMS, Gilead, and GSK. The remaining authors have no conflicts of 
interest to disclose.


922. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2014 Dec;203(6):1379-81. doi: 10.2214/AJR.14.12646.

Implications of CISNET modeling on number needed to screen and mortality 
reduction with digital mammography in women 40-49 years old.

Hendrick RE(1), Helvie MA, Hardesty LA.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Radiology, University of Colorado - Denver, School of 
Medicine, 12700 E. 19th Ave, Mail Stop C278, Aurora, CO 80045.

OBJECTIVE: In this article, we evaluate the implications of recent Cancer 
Intervention and Surveillance Modeling Network (CISNET) modeling of benefits and 
harms of screening to women 40-49 years old using annual digital mammography.
CONCLUSION: We show that adding annual digital mammography of women 40-49 years 
old to biennial screening of women 50-74 years old increases lives saved by 27% 
and life-years gained by 47%. Annual digital mammography in women 40-49 years 
old saves 42% more lives and life-years than biennial digital mammography. The 
number needed to screen to save one life (NNS) with annual digital mammography 
in women 40-49 years old is 588.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.14.12646
PMID: 25415718 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


923. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2014 Dec;203(6):W629-36. doi: 10.2214/AJR.14.12550.

Microsimulation model of CT versus MRI surveillance of Bosniak IIF renal cystic 
lesions: should effects of radiation exposure affect selection of imaging 
strategy?

Kang SK(1), Turan EA, Eisenberg JD, Lee PA, Kong CY, Pandharipande PV.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Radiology, NYU Langone Medical Center, 550 First Ave, New 
York, NY 10016.

OBJECTIVE: The objective of this study was to quantify the effects of 
radiation-induced cancer risks in patients with Bosniak category IIF lesions 
undergoing CT versus MRI surveillance.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We developed a Markov-Monte Carlo model to determine life 
expectancy losses attributable to radiation-induced cancers in hypothetical 
patients undergoing CT versus MRI surveillance of Bosniak IIF lesions. Our model 
tracked hypothetical patients as they underwent imaging surveillance for up to 5 
years, accounting for potential lesion progression and treatment. Estimates of 
radiation-induced cancer mortality were generated using a published 
organ-specific radiation-risk model based on Biological Effects of Ionizing 
Radiation VII methods. The model also incorporated surgical mortality and renal 
cancer-specific mortality. Our primary outcome was life expectancy loss 
attributable to radiation-induced cancers. A sensitivity analysis was performed 
to assess the stability of the results with variability in key parameters.
RESULTS: The mean number of examinations per patient was 6.3. In the base case, 
assuming 13 mSv per multiphase CT examination, 64-year-old men experienced an 
average life expectancy decrease of 5.5 days attributable to radiation-induced 
cancers from CT; 64-year-old women experienced a corresponding life expectancy 
loss of 6.9 days. The results were most sensitive to patient age: Life 
expectancy loss attributable to radiation-induced cancers increased to 21.6 days 
in 20-year-old women and 20.0 days in 20-year-old men. Varied assumptions of 
each modality's (CT vs MRI) depiction of lesion complexity also impacted life 
expectancy losses.
CONCLUSION: Microsimulation modeling shows that radiation-induced cancer risks 
from CT surveillance for Bosniak IIF lesions minimally affect life expectancy. 
However, as progressively younger patients are considered, increasing radiation 
risks merit stronger consideration of MRI surveillance.

DOI: 10.2214/AJR.14.12550
PMID: 25415728 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


924. Gen Thorac Cardiovasc Surg. 2015 May;63(5):260-6. doi: 
10.1007/s11748-014-0499-2. Epub 2014 Nov 22.

Influence of the characteristics of Japanese patients on the long-term outcomes 
after aortic valve replacement: results of a microsimulation.

Abe T(1), Oshima H, Narita Y, Araki Y, Mutsuga M, Fujimoto K, Tokuda Y, Terazawa 
S, Yagami K, Usui A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Surgery, Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, 
65 Tsurumaicho, Showa-ku, Nagoya, 466-8550, Japan, 
tomonobuabe@med.nagoya-u.ac.jp.

OBJECTIVES: The aim of this study was to explore the influence of the 
characteristics of Japanese patients on the long-term outcomes after aortic 
valve replacement with either mechanical or biological prostheses by means of a 
microsimulation.
METHODS: A microsimulation model was used to simulate the lives of patients 
living in Japan and in the United States after aortic valve replacement. The 
background mortality data taken from the 21st complete life table of Japan and 
the bleeding hazard determined from a meta-analysis of long-term results in 
Japanese institutions were used to simulate Japanese patients. The life 
expectancy, event-free life expectancy, and lifetime risk of structural valve 
degeneration were calculated. A sensitivity analysis for various bleeding 
hazards was performed.
RESULTS: Regarding the event-free life expectancy, the age crossover points 
between the two valve types were 64-65 and 57-58 years for Japanese and American 
patients, respectively. Regarding the life expectancy, the age crossover points 
were 88-89 and 64-65 years, respectively, for Japanese and American patients. 
The lifetime risk of structural valve degeneration was higher in Japanese 
patients than in American patients. The sensitivity analysis showed that the age 
crossover points were sensitive to the hazard of bleeding complications.
CONCLUSIONS: The long-term clinical outcomes after aortic valve replacement were 
simulated with a microsimulation model. The results indicated that the age 
crossover points in the advantages and disadvantages between mechanical valves 
and bioprostheses may be higher in Japanese patients than in American subjects.

DOI: 10.1007/s11748-014-0499-2
PMCID: PMC4412834
PMID: 25416165 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


925. BMC Public Health. 2014 Nov 21;14:1196. doi: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-1196.

Quantifying burden of disease to support public health policy in Belgium: 
opportunities and constraints.

Devleesschauwer B(1), Maertens de Noordhout C, Smit GS, Duchateau L, Dorny P, 
Stein C, Van Oyen H, Speybroeck N.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health and Society (IRSS), Faculty of Public Health, Université 
catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium. brecht.devleesschauwer@UGent.be.

BACKGROUND: To support public health policy, information on the burden of 
disease is essential. In recent years, the Disability-Adjusted Life Year (DALY) 
has emerged as the most important summary measure of public health. DALYs 
quantify the number of healthy life years lost due to morbidity and mortality, 
and thereby facilitate the comparison of the relative impact of diseases and 
risk factors and the monitoring of public health over time.
DISCUSSION: Evidence on the disease burden in Belgium, expressed as DALYs, is 
available from international and national efforts. Non-communicable diseases and 
injuries dominate the overall disease burden, while dietary risks, tobacco 
smoking, and high body-mass index are the major risk factors for ill health. 
Notwithstanding these efforts, if DALYs were to be used for guiding health 
policy, a more systematic approach is required. By integrating DALYs in the 
current data generating systems, comparable estimates, rooted in recent local 
data, can be produced. This might however be hampered by several restrictions, 
such as limited harmonization, timeliness, inclusiveness and accessibility of 
current databases.
SUMMARY: Routine quantification of disease burden in terms of DALYs would 
provide a significant added value to evidence-based public health policy in 
Belgium, although some hurdles need to be cleared.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2458-14-1196
PMCID: PMC4246467
PMID: 25416547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


926. J Biol Chem. 2015 Jan 16;290(3):1664-78. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.599886. Epub
2014  Nov 21.

Identification of lethal mutations in yeast threonyl-tRNA synthetase revealing 
critical residues in its human homolog.

Ruan ZR(1), Fang ZP(1), Ye Q(1), Lei HY(1), Eriani G(2), Zhou XL(3), Wang ED(4).

Author information:
(1)From the Center for RNA Research, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, 
Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 320 Yue Yang Road, Shanghai 200031, 
China.
(2)Architecture et Réactivité de l'ARN, Université de Strasbourg, CNRS, Institut 
de Biologie Moléculaire et Cellulaire, 15 Rue René Descartes, 67084 Strasbourg, 
France.
(3)From the Center for RNA Research, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, 
Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 320 Yue Yang Road, Shanghai 200031, 
China, xlzhou@sibcb.ac.cn.
(4)From the Center for RNA Research, State Key Laboratory of Molecular Biology, 
Institute of Biochemistry and Cell Biology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 320 Yue Yang Road, Shanghai 200031, 
China, the School of Life Science and Technology, ShanghaiTech University, 320 
Yue Yang Road, Shanghai 200031, China, and edwang@sibcb.ac.cn.

Aminoacyl-tRNA synthetases (aaRSs) are a group of ancient enzymes catalyzing 
aminoacylation and editing reactions for protein biosynthesis. Increasing 
evidence suggests that these critical enzymes are often associated with 
mammalian disorders. Therefore, complete determination of the enzymes functions 
is essential for informed diagnosis and treatment. Here, we show that a yeast 
knock-out strain for the threonyl-tRNA synthetase (ThrRS) gene is an excellent 
platform for such an investigation. Saccharomyces cerevisiae ThrRS has a unique 
modular structure containing four structural domains and a eukaryote-specific 
N-terminal extension. Using randomly mutated libraries of the ThrRS gene (thrS) 
and a genetic screen, a set of loss-of-function mutants were identified. The 
mutations affected the synthetic and editing activities and influenced the dimer 
interface. The results also highlighted the role of the N-terminal extension for 
enzymatic activity and protein stability. To gain insights into the pathological 
mechanisms induced by mutated aaRSs, we systematically introduced the 
loss-of-function mutations into the human cytoplasmic ThrRS gene. All mutations 
induced similar detrimental effects, showing that the yeast model could be used 
to study pathology-associated point mutations in mammalian aaRSs.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M114.599886
PMCID: PMC4340410
PMID: 25416776 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


927. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 2014 Nov;2014(49):145-86. doi: 
10.1093/jncimonographs/lgu024.

Cancer survival: an overview of measures, uses, and interpretation.

Mariotto AB(1), Noone AM(2), Howlader N(2), Cho H(2), Keel GE(2), Garshell J(2), 
Woloshin S(2), Schwartz LM(2).

Author information:
(1)Surveillance Research Program, Division of Cancer Control and Population 
Sciences, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD (AM, AN, NH, HC); Division of 
Cancer Registration and Surveillance, National Cancer Center, Goyang-si 
Gyeonggi-do, Korea (HC); Information Management Services, Inc., Calverton MD 
(GEK, JG); Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice, Lebanon, 
NH, Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, 
NH, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Veterans Affairs Outcomes Group, White River Junction, 
VT (SW, LMS). mariotta@mail.nih.gov.
(2)Surveillance Research Program, Division of Cancer Control and Population 
Sciences, National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD (AM, AN, NH, HC); Division of 
Cancer Registration and Surveillance, National Cancer Center, Goyang-si 
Gyeonggi-do, Korea (HC); Information Management Services, Inc., Calverton MD 
(GEK, JG); Dartmouth Institute for Health Policy and Clinical Practice, Lebanon, 
NH, Norris Cotton Cancer Center, Dartmouth Hitchcock Medical Center, Lebanon, 
NH, Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Hanover, NH, Department of Veterans 
Affairs Medical Center, Veterans Affairs Outcomes Group, White River Junction, 
VT (SW, LMS).

Erratum in
    J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 2015 May;2015(51):97.

Survival statistics are of great interest to patients, clinicians, researchers, 
and policy makers. Although seemingly simple, survival can be confusing: there 
are many different survival measures with a plethora of names and statistical 
methods developed to answer different questions. This paper aims to describe and 
disseminate different survival measures and their interpretation in less 
technical language. In addition, we introduce templates to summarize cancer 
survival statistic organized by their specific purpose: research and policy 
versus prognosis and clinical decision making.

Published by Oxford University Press 2014.

DOI: 10.1093/jncimonographs/lgu024
PMCID: PMC4829054
PMID: 25417231 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


928. J Natl Cancer Inst Monogr. 2014 Nov;2014(49):218-27. doi: 
10.1093/jncimonographs/lgu017.

The impact of state-specific life tables on relative survival.

Stroup AM(1), Cho H(2), Scoppa SM(2), Weir HK(2), Mariotto AB(2).

Author information:
(1)Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ, Division of Cancer 
Epidemiology, Department of Epidemiology, Rutgers School of Public Health, 
Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, Piscataway, NJ (AMS); Data Modeling 
Branch, Surveillance Research Program, Division of Cancer Control and Population 
Sciences, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health Bethesda, MD 
(HC, AM); Division of Cancer Registration and Surveillance, National Cancer 
Center, Goyang-si Gyeonggi-do, Korea (HC); Information Management Services, 
Inc., Calverton, MD (SS); Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National 
Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA (HKW). nan.stroup@rutgers.edu.
(2)Rutgers Cancer Institute of New Jersey, New Brunswick, NJ, Division of Cancer 
Epidemiology, Department of Epidemiology, Rutgers School of Public Health, 
Rutgers, the State University of New Jersey, Piscataway, NJ (AMS); Data Modeling 
Branch, Surveillance Research Program, Division of Cancer Control and Population 
Sciences, National Cancer Institute, National Institutes of Health Bethesda, MD 
(HC, AM); Division of Cancer Registration and Surveillance, National Cancer 
Center, Goyang-si Gyeonggi-do, Korea (HC); Information Management Services, 
Inc., Calverton, MD (SS); Division of Cancer Prevention and Control, National 
Center for Chronic Disease Prevention and Health Promotion, Centers for Disease 
Control and Prevention, Atlanta, GA (HKW).

BACKGROUND: Relative survival is based on estimating excess cancer mortality in 
a study population compared to expected mortality of a comparable population 
without cancer. In the United States, expected mortality is estimated from 
national life tables matched by age, sex, race, and calendar year to each 
individual in the study population. We compared five-year relative survival 
using state life tables to five-year relative survival using US decennial life 
tables. We assessed variations by age, race, and cancer site for all cancers 
combined, lung, colorectal, prostate, and female breast cancers.
METHODS: We used data from 17 National Cancer Institute Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results Program registries, including diagnoses from 
January 1, 2000 to December 31, 2009 with follow-up through December 31, 2010. 
Five-year relative survival was calculated using US-based life tables (USLT) and 
state-specific life tables (SLT).
RESULTS: Differences in SLT- and USLT-based survival were generally small (SLT < 
4 survival percentage points lower than USLT). Differences were higher for 
states with high SES and low mortality and for prostate cancer. Differences were 
largest for all cancers combined, colon and rectum, and prostate cancer among 
males aged 85+ ranging from -10 to -17 survival points for whites and +9 to +17 
for blacks.
CONCLUSION: Differences between relative survival based on USLT and SLT were 
small and state-based estimates were less reliable than US-based estimates for 
older populations aged 85+. Our findings underscore the need to develop more 
appropriate life tables that better represent the varying mortality patterns in 
different populations in order to obtain accurate estimates of relative 
survival.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jncimonographs/lgu017
PMCID: PMC4558894
PMID: 25417235 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


929. Rev Panam Salud Publica. 2014 Sep;36(3):143-9.

[Population mobility and HIV/AIDS in Central America and Mexico].

[Article in Spanish]

Leyva-Flores R(1), Aracena-Genao B(1), Serván-Mori E(1).

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, Morelos, México, 
belkis.aracena@insp.mx.

OBJECTIVE: Estimate the magnitude of the association between population 
mobility, measured by net migration rate (NMR), and HIV prevalence in Central 
America and Mexico.
METHODS: Using time series models, based on public information from UNAIDS, 
UNDP, ECLAC, and the World Bank for the period 1990-2009, this association was 
studied in individuals aged 15-49 years, and adjusted for socioeconomic factors 
(education, unemployment, life expectancy, and income).
RESULTS: NMR was negative in all countries except Costa Rica and Panama. 
Unadjusted results of the model show a positive association and that NMR can 
explain 6% of recorded HIV prevalence. When socioeconomic cofactors are included 
by country (education, health, and income), the magnitude increases to 9% 
(P<0.05). NMR, even when adjusted for socioeconomic factors, explains some of 
recorded HIV prevalence. All socioeconomic indicators show improvements in 
Central America and Mexico, although large gaps persist among countries.
CONCLUSIONS: The modest association observed between population mobility and HIV 
prevalence is conditioned by the socioeconomic status of the countries studied. 
Information availability limited the study's ability to establish the existence 
of this association with greater certainty. Accordingly, based on available 
information, it is not possible to affirm that migration plays a key role in the 
spread of HIV.

PMID: 25418763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


930. Pan Afr Med J. 2014 Jun 17;18:143. doi: 10.11604/pamj.2014.18.143.3496. 
eCollection 2014.

Complementary feeding practice of mothers and associated factors in Hiwot Fana 
Specialized Hospital, Eastern Ethiopia.

Semahegn A(1), Tesfaye G(1), Bogale A(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Health and Medical Sciences, Haramaya University, Harar, Ethiopia.

INTRODUCTION: Malnutrition remains one of the main public health problems. Over 
one third of under-five mortality is caused by under nutrition related to 
inadequate complementary feeding. This study was aimed to assess of 
complementary feeding practice and associated factors.
METHODS: Cross sectional study design was conducted to assess complementary 
feeding practice of mothers to their young children in Hiwot Fana specialized 
hospital in January 2013. Systematic sampling method was used to select 200 
mothers to child pair to assess their timely initiation of complementary feeding 
and associated factors. Data were collected by using semi-structured 
questionnaire for face to face interview method. Descriptive statistics, binary 
and multiple logistic regressions were used for data analysis.
RESULTS: The prevalence of timely initiate of complementary feeding was 60.5%. 
