Sampson UK(1), Fowkes FG(2), McDermott MM(3), Criqui MH(4), Aboyans V(5), Norman 
PE(6), Forouzanfar MH(7), Naghavi M(7), Song Y(8), Harrell FE Jr(8), Denenberg 
JO(4), Mensah GA(9), Ezzati M(10), Murray C(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Vanderbilt University Medical Center (VUMC), 
Nashville, TN, USA. Electronic address: u.sampson@vanderbilt.edu.
(2)Centre for Population Health Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
UK.
(3)Department of Medicine and Preventive Medicine, Northwestern University 
Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Department of Family and Preventive Medicine, University of California, San 
Diego, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Cardiology, Dupuytren University Hospital, Limoges, France; 
Institut National de la Santé et de la Recherche Médicale U1094, Tropical 
Neuroepidemiology, Limoges, France.
(6)School of Surgery, University of Western Australia, Fremantle, Australia.
(7)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle, WA, USA.
(8)Department of Biostatistics, VUMC, Nashville, TN, USA.
(9)Center for Translation Research and Implementation Science (CTRIS), National 
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.
(10)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle, WA, USA; School of 
Public Health, Imperial College London, London, UK.

A comprehensive and systematic assessment of disability and mortality due to 
lower extremity peripheral artery disease (PAD) is lacking. Therefore, we 
estimated PAD deaths, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), and years of life 
lost in 21 regions worldwide for 1990 and 2010. We used the GBD (Global Burden 
of Diseases 2010) study causes of death database, and the cause of death 
ensemble modeling approach to assess levels and trends of PAD deaths and years 
of life lost over time, by age, sex, and region. Assessment of DALYs employed 
estimates of PAD prevalence from systematic reviews of epidemiologic data using 
a Bayesian meta-regression method. In 1990, the age-specific PAD death rate per 
100,000 population ranged from 0.05 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 0.03 to 0.09) 
among those 40 to 44 years old to 16.63 (95% CI: 10.47 to 25.31) among the 80+ 
years group. In 2010, the corresponding estimates were 0.07 (95% CI: 0.04 to 
0.13) and 28.71 (95% CI: 18.3 to 43.06). Death rates increased consistently with 
age in 1990 and 2010, and the rates in 2010 were higher than they were in 1990 
in all age categories. The largest relative change in median death rate of +6.03 
per 100,000 (95% CI: 1.50 to 11.85) was noted in the Asia Pacific-High Income 
region and was largely driven by higher rates in women: +17.36 (95% CI: 1.79 to 
32.01) versus +1.25 (95% CI: 0.13 to 2.39) in men. The overall relative change 
in median DALYs was larger in developing nations than in developed nations: 1.15 
(95% CI: 0.80 to 1.66) versus 0.77 (95% CI: 0.55 to 1.08). Of note, the overall 
relative change in median DALYs was higher among both men and women in 
developing versus developed countries: men: 1.18 (95% CI: 0.82 to 1.65) versus 
0.51 (95% CI: 0.30 to 0.81), and women: 1.11 (95% CI: 0.58 to 2.02) versus 1 
(95% CI: 0.67 to 1.47). Within developed nations, the overall relative change in 
median DALY rates was larger in women than in men: +1.00 (95% CI: 0.67 to 1.47) 
versus +0.51 (95% CI: 0.3 to 0.81). Similarly, the overall relative change in 
median years of life lost rate in developed countries was larger in women than 
in men: +1.64 (95% CI: 1.17 to 2.34) versus +0.53 (95% CI: 0.24 to 0.94). The 
relative increases in median years lived with nonfatal disease disability (YLD) 
rates in men and women were larger in developing versus developed nations: men: 
0.87 (95% CI: 0.59 to 1.2) versus 0.49 (95% CI: 0.29 to 0.73), and women: 0.75 
(95% CI: 0.46 to 1.09) versus 0.49 (95% CI: 0.29 to 0.73). Disability and 
mortality associated with PAD has increased over the last 20 years, and this 
increase in burden has been greater among women than among men. In addition, the 
burden of PAD is no longer confined to the elderly population, but now involves 
young adults. Furthermore, the relative increase in PAD burden in developing 
regions of the world is striking and exceeds the increases in developed nations.

Copyright © 2014 World Heart Federation (Geneva). Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2013.12.008
PMID: 25432124 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


987. Bioinformatics. 2015 Apr 15;31(8):1183-90. doi:
10.1093/bioinformatics/btu780.  Epub 2014 Nov 27.

Faster sequence homology searches by clustering subsequences.

Suzuki S(1), Kakuta M(2), Ishida T(2), Akiyama Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Graduate School of Information Science and Engineering, Tokyo Institute of 
Technology and Education Academy of Computational Life Sciences (ACLS), Tokyo 
Institute of Technology, Tokyo 152-8550, Japan Graduate School of Information 
Science and Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology and Education Academy of 
Computational Life Sciences (ACLS), Tokyo Institute of Technology, Tokyo 
152-8550, Japan.
(2)Graduate School of Information Science and Engineering, Tokyo Institute of 
Technology and Education Academy of Computational Life Sciences (ACLS), Tokyo 
Institute of Technology, Tokyo 152-8550, Japan.

MOTIVATION: Sequence homology searches are used in various fields. New 
sequencing technologies produce huge amounts of sequence data, which 
continuously increase the size of sequence databases. As a result, homology 
searches require large amounts of computational time, especially for metagenomic 
analysis.
RESULTS: We developed a fast homology search method based on database 
subsequence clustering, and implemented it as GHOSTZ. This method clusters 
similar subsequences from a database to perform an efficient seed search and 
ungapped extension by reducing alignment candidates based on triangle 
inequality. The database subsequence clustering technique achieved an ∼2-fold 
increase in speed without a large decrease in search sensitivity. When we 
measured with metagenomic data, GHOSTZ is ∼2.2-2.8 times faster than RAPSearch 
and is ∼185-261 times faster than BLASTX.
AVAILABILITY AND IMPLEMENTATION: The source code is freely available for 
download at http://www.bi.cs.titech.ac.jp/ghostz/
CONTACT: akiyama@cs.titech.ac.jp
SUPPLEMENTARY INFORMATION: Supplementary data are available at Bioinformatics 
online.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/bioinformatics/btu780
PMCID: PMC4393512
PMID: 25432166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


988. Virology. 2015 Mar;477:125-132. doi: 10.1016/j.virol.2014.11.003. Epub 2014
Nov  26.

Quantitative analysis of the thermal stability of the gamma phage endolysin 
PlyG: a biophysical and kinetic approach to assaying therapeutic potential.

Heselpoth RD(1), Owens JM(2), Nelson DC(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Bioscience and Biotechnology Research, Rockville, MD 20850, 
USA.
(2)Institute for Bioscience and Biotechnology Research, Rockville, MD 20850, 
USA; Biotechnology Program, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, MD 21218, USA.
(3)Institute for Bioscience and Biotechnology Research, Rockville, MD 20850, 
USA; Department of Veterinary Medicine, University of Maryland, College Park, MD 
20742, USA. Electronic address: nelsond@umd.edu.

Endolysins are lytic enzymes encoded by bacteriophage that represent an emerging 
class of protein therapeutics. Considering macromolecular thermoresistance 
correlates with shelf life, PlyG, a Bacillus anthracis endolysin, was thermally 
characterized to further evaluate its therapeutic potential. Results from a 
biophysical thermal analysis revealed full-length PlyG and its isolated domains 
comprised thermal denaturation temperatures exceeding 63°C. In the absence of 
reducing agent, PlyG was determined to be kinetically unstable, a finding 
hypothesized to be attributable to the chemical oxidation of cysteine and/or 
methionine residues. The presence of reducing agent kinetically stabilized the 
endolysin, with PlyG retaining at least ~50% residual lytic activity after being 
heated at temperatures up to 80°C and remaining enzymatically functional after 
being boiled. Furthermore, the endolysin had a kinetic half-life at 50°C and 
55°C of 35 and 5.5h, respectively. PlyG represents a thermostable proteinaceous 
antibacterial with subsequent prolonged therapeutic shelf life expectancy.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.virol.2014.11.003
PMID: 25432575 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


989. Hum Reprod. 2015 Feb;30(2):315-22. doi: 10.1093/humrep/deu319. Epub 2014 Nov
28.

A retrospective evaluation of prognosis and cost-effectiveness of IVF in poor 
responders according to the Bologna criteria.

Busnelli A(1), Papaleo E(2), Del Prato D(2), La Vecchia I(3), Iachini E(2), 
Paffoni A(4), Candiani M(2), Somigliana E(4).

Author information:
(1)Infertility Unit, Fondazione Ca' Granda, Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 
Milan, Italy Università degli Studi, Milan, Italy andreabusnelli@live.it.
(2)Obstetrics and Gynecology Unit, San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Milan, 
Italy.
(3)Infertility Unit, Fondazione Ca' Granda, Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 
Milan, Italy Università degli Studi, Milan, Italy.
(4)Infertility Unit, Fondazione Ca' Granda, Ospedale Maggiore Policlinico, 
Milan, Italy.

STUDY QUESTION: Do the Bologna criteria for poor responders successfully 
identify women with poor IVF outcome?
SUMMARY ANSWER: The Bologna criteria effectively identify a population with a 
uniformly low chance of success.
WHAT IS ALREADY KNOWN: Women undergoing IVF who respond poorly to ovarian 
hyper-stimulation have a low chance of success. Even if improving IVF outcome in 
this population represents a main priority, the lack of a unique definition of 
the condition has hampered research in this area. To overcome this impediment, a 
recent expert meeting in Bologna proposed a new definition of poor responders 
('Bologna criteria'). However, data supporting the relevance of this definition 
in clinical practice are scanty.
STUDY DESIGN, SIZE, DURATION: Retrospective study of women undergoing IVF-ICSI 
between January 2010 and December 2012 in two independent infertility units. 
Women could be included if they fulfilled the definition of poor ovarian 
response (POR) according to Bologna criteria prior to initiation of the cycle. 
Women were included only for one cycle. The main outcome was the live birth rate 
per started cycle. The perspective of the cost analysis was the one of the 
health provider.
PARTICIPANTS/MATERIALS, SETTING, METHODS: Three-hundred sixty-two women from two 
independent Infertility Units were selected. A binomial distribution model was 
used to calculate the 95% CI of the rate of success. Characteristics of women 
who did and did not obtain a live birth were compared. A logistic regression 
model was used to adjust for confounders. The economic analysis included costs 
for pharmacological compounds and for the IVF procedure. The benefits were 
estimated on quality-adjusted life years (QALY). To develop the model, we used 
the local life-expectancy tables, we applied a 3% discount of life years gained 
and we used a 0.07 improvement in quality of life associated with parenthood. 
Sensitivity analyses were performed varying the improvement of the quality of 
life and including/excluding the male partner. The reference values for 
cost-effectiveness were the Italian and the local (Lombardy) gross domestic 
product (GDP) pro capita per year in the studied period and the upper and lower 
limits suggested by NICE.
MAIN RESULTS AND THE ROLE OF CHANCE: Overall, 23 women had a live birth (6%, 95% 
CI: 4-9%), in line with the previous evidence. This proportion did not 
significantly differ in the different subgroups of poor responders. Positive 
predictive factors of success were previous deliveries (adjusted OR = 3.0, 95% 
CI: 1.1-8.7, P = 0.039) and previous chemotherapy (adjusted OR = 13.9, 95% CI: 
2.5-77.2, P = 0.003). Age, serum AMH, serum FSH and antral follicle count were 
not significantly associated with live birth. The total cost per live birth was 
87 748 Euros, corresponding to 49 919 Euros per QALY. This is above both the 
limits suggested by NICE for cost-effectiveness and the Italian and local GDP 
pro capita. Sensitivity analyses mainly support the robustness of the 
conclusion.
LIMITATIONS, REASONS FOR CAUTION: We lack a control group and we cannot thus 
exclude that an alternative definition of poor responders may be equally if not 
more valid. Moreover, independent validations are warranted prior to concluding 
that IVF is not cost-effective. Women should thus not be denied treatment based 
on our findings. Noteworthy, there is also not yet a consensus on the most 
appropriate economic model to be used.
WIDER IMPLICATIONS OF THE FINDINGS: We recommend the use of the Bologna criteria 
when designing future studies on poor responders. Large multi-centred 
international studies are now required to draw definite conclusions on the 
economic profile of IVF in this situation.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society of Human Reproduction and Embryology. All rights reserved. For 
Permissions, please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/humrep/deu319
PMID: 25432927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


990. Exp Biol Med (Maywood). 2015 Mar;240(3):315-23. doi:
10.1177/1535370214561588.  Epub 2014 Nov 27.

Role of WW domain proteins WWOX in development, prognosis, and treatment 
response of glioma.

Liu SY(1), Chiang MF(2), Chen YJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Research, Mackay Memorial Hospital, Taipei 104, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Neurosurgery, Mackay Memorial Hospital, Taipei 104, Taiwan 
Graduate Institute of Injury Prevention and Control, Taipei Medical University, 
Taipei 110, Taiwan chiang66@gmail.com chenmdphd@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Mackay Memorial Hospital, Taipei 104, 
Taiwan Graduate Institute of Pharmacology, Taipei Medical University, Taipei 
110, Taiwan.

Glioblastoma multiforme (GBM) is the most aggressive and malignant brain tumor. 
Delicate microenvironment and lineage heterogeneity of GBM cells including 
infiltration, hypoxia, angiogenesis, and stemness make them highly resistant to 
current conventional therapies, with an average life expectancy for GBM patients 
of less than 15 months. Poor response to cytotoxic agents of GBM cells remains 
the major challenge of GBM treatment. Resistance of GBM to clinical treatment is 
a result of genomic alternation and deregulated signaling pathways, such as p53 
mutation and apoptosis signaling blockage, providing cancer cells more 
opportunities for survival rather than cell death. WW domain-containing 
oxidoreductase (WWOX) is a tumor suppressor gene, commonly downregulated in 
various types of tumors, including GBM. It has been found that the 
reintroduction of WWOX induced p53-mutant GBM cells to undergo apoptosis, but 
not in p53 wild-type GBM cells, indicating WWOX is likely to reopen apoptosis 
pathways in a p53-independent manner in GBM. Identifying the crucial target 
modulated by WWOX deficiency provides a potential therapeutic target for GBM 
treatment. Here, we have reviewed the literatures about the role of WWOX in 
development, signaling pathway, prognosis, and treatment response in malignant 
glioma.

© 2014 by the Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine.

DOI: 10.1177/1535370214561588
PMCID: PMC4935226
PMID: 25432984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


991. Monash Bioeth Rev. 2014 Mar-Jun;32(1-2):43-62. doi:
10.1007/s40592-014-0002-y.

Disability, discrimination and death: is it justified to ration life saving 
treatment for disabled newborn infants?

Wilkinson D, Savulescu J.

Disability might be relevant to decisions about life support in intensive care 
in several ways. It might affect the chance of treatment being successful, or a 
patient's life expectancy with treatment. It may affect whether treatment is in 
a patient's best interests. However, even if treatment would be of overall 
benefit it may be unaffordable and consequently unable to be provided. In this 
paper we will draw on the example of neonatal intensive care, and ask whether or 
when it is justified to ration life-saving treatment on the basis of disability. 
We argue that predicted disability is relevant both indirectly and directly to 
rationing decisions.

DOI: 10.1007/s40592-014-0002-y
PMCID: PMC4210721
PMID: 25434064 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


992. Radiats Biol Radioecol. 2013 Sep-Oct;53(5):468-74.

[The experimental evaluation of antiradiation effectiveness of genistein by 
survival rates and bone marrow hemopoiesis of mice irradiated by X-rays].

[Article in Russian]

Grebeniuk AN, Basharin VA, Tarumov RA, Aksenova NV, Nazarov VB, Kovtun VIu, 
Chekunov IE.

The study was aimed at evaluating the radioprotective effectiveness of genistein 
administered at different times before or after acute irradiation. Evaluation 
ofradioprotective efficiency was performed by studying the 30-day survival rate, 
life expectancy, bone marrow hemapoiesis using the method of endogenous and 
exogenous colony formation. We have established that genistein at a dose of 200 
mg/kg when administered 1 hour prior to irradiation has the highest 
radioprotective efficiency. In this case, genistein protects mice against death 
due to X-ray radiation at doses LD(50-90/30), increasing their survival rate by 
30-44%, and reduces expression of post radiation disorders of bone marrow 
hematopoiesis.

PMID: 25434166 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


993. Radiats Biol Radioecol. 2013 Sep-Oct;53(5):487-94.

[Search problems of human radiation protection in the world of genetics of 
aging].

[Article in Russian]

Koterov AN.

Currently, the urgency for protection from negative effects of radiation in the 
range of low and medium dose where classic radioprotectors are ineffective is 
increased. In this respect it seems promising to study the molecular pathways 
that increase, on the one hand, the stability of the genome against radiation 
damage (inducers of carcinogenesis), and, on the other hand, elevate the 
radiation sensitivity of cell populations in order to eliminate potentially 
carcinogenic cells. This approach requires modification of cascade mechanisms of 
signal transduction to apoptosis and responses to DNA damage. Research plan is 
similar to the Genetics of Aging, where a number of hypotheses about the 
mechanism of aging have been proposed, including a decrease in the stability of 
the genome to external influences. Proceedings of the 2nd International 
Conference "The genetics of aging and longevity" (Moscow, April 2012) 
demonstrated, however, that patterns of aging mechanisms identified in model 
animals (nematodes, drosophila and mice) are far from the possibility of their 
practical application. Discovered genes that may be responsible for life 
expectancy (stress-inducible protein and other components of the signal 
transduction cascade, as well as suppressors and inducers) rarely find 
significance in the study of the genomes of centenarian cohorts. This may be due 
to the difficulty in transferring molecular genetic patterns from model objects 
to large mammals, including humans, with respect to systems of signal 
transduction. This point must be taken into account during the search for a new 
generation of radioprotective agents that promote anti-carcinogenic potential of 
human cells exposed to radiation at low and moderate doses. It may be necessary 
to search for such tools in large laboratory animals and in human tissue 
cultures obtained through genetic engineering or cloning.

PMID: 25434169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


994. Neurosurg Focus. 2014 Dec;37(6):E10. doi: 10.3171/2014.9.FOCUS14520.

Targeting MET for glioma therapy.

Awad AJ(1), Burns TC, Zhang Y, Abounader R.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Neurosurgery and.

Glioblastoma multiforme is the most common and most lethal of all primary brain 
tumors. Even with the standard therapy, life expectancy is still poor, with an 
average survival of approximately 14 months following initial diagnosis. Hence, 
there is an urgent need for novel treatment strategies that inhibit 
proliferation and angiogenesis in high-grade gliomas. One such strategy consists 
of inhibiting receptor tyrosine kinases, including MET and/or its ligand 
hepatocyte growth factor (HGF). Because of their widespread involvement in human 
cancer, HGF and MET have emerged as promising therapeutic targets, and some 
inhibitory agents that target them have already entered clinical trials. In this 
paper, the authors highlight recent evidence implicating HGF/MET pathway 
deregulation in glioblastoma multiforme, discuss therapeutic approaches to 
inhibit HGF/MET signaling, and summarize ongoing clinical trials targeting this 
pathway.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.9.FOCUS14520
PMID: 25434379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


995. Orv Hetil. 2014 Dec 7;155(49):1960-6. doi: 10.1556/OH.2014.30046.

[Current approaches for early detection and treatment of medication-related 
osteonecrosis of jaw].

[Article in Hungarian; Abstract available in Hungarian from the publisher]

Janovszky Á(1), Vereb T(1), Szabó A(2), Piffkó J(1).

Author information:
(1)Szegedi Tudományegyetem, Szent-Györgyi Albert Klinikai Központ, Általános 
Orvostudományi Kar Arc-, Állcsont- és Szájsebészeti Klinika Szeged Kálvária sgt. 
57. 6725.
(2)Szegedi Tudományegyetem, Szent-Györgyi Albert Klinikai Központ, Általános 
Orvostudományi Kar Sebészeti Műtéttani Intézet Szeged.

Owing to the increased life expectancy, the incidence of rheumatoid disorders 
and oncologic cases with bone metastasis has dramatically increased. Despite the 
beneficial effects of the applied antiresorptive and antiangiogenic drugs (e.g. 
bisphosphonates), serious side effects such as jaw osteonecrosis may also 
develop. The aim of the authors was to summarize present knowledge about the 
possibilities of prevention and treatment in medication-related osteonecrosis of 
the jaw. Based on literature data, currently used detection methods for 
medication-related osteonecrosis of the jaw (including their advantages and 
limitations) are summarized. In addition, novel trends of surgical and adjuvant 
therapeutic approaches are also reviewed. The authors conclude that 
possibilities of prevention and efficacy of therapeutic interventions in this 
disorder are still limited possibly due to an incomplete knowledge of the 
underlying pathomechanism. An interdisciplinary cooperation for prevention and 
attentive monitoring in order to decrease the incidence of iatrogenic oral and 
maxillofacial complications seems to be particularly important.

Publisher: A várható élettartam hosszabbodásával egyre gyakoribbak a különféle 
reumatológiai és onkológiai megbetegedések, amelyek csontszövődményeinek 
csökkentésére széles körben alkalmaznak különböző per os és intravénás 
antireszorptív hatású készítményeket (például biszfoszfonátok). Ezek a szerek 
jótékony hatásuk mellett súlyos szövődményeket is okozhatnak, ilyen például a ma 
még nem teljesen tisztázott patomechanizmusú állcsontnecrosis. A szerzők célja 
egy átfogó szakmai tájékoztatás nyújtása a gyógyszer indukálta állcsontnecrosis 
lehetséges megelőzéséről és terápiájáról. A szakirodalmi áttekintés alapján 
készült dolgozat azokat a szűrőmódszereket ismerteti (előnyeikkel és 
limitációikkal együtt), amelyek segítségünkre lehetnek a gyógyszer indukálta 
állcsontnecrosis korai detektálásában. A szerzők a legújabb sebészi és adjuváns 
terápiás irányvonalakat is ismertetik. Megállapítják, hogy a patomechanizmus 
ismeretének hiányában jelenleg még hatékony terápiás modalitás nem áll 
rendelkezésre, és hangsúlyozzák mind a prevenció, mind a terápia során az 
interdiszciplináris együttműködés szükségességét és annak fontosságát. Jelenleg 
ez tűnik a gyógyszer indukálta állcsontnecrosis elleni leghatékonyabb eszköznek. 
Or. Hetil., 2014, 155(49), 1960–1966.

DOI: 10.1556/OH.2014.30046
PMID: 25434516 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


996. Prev Med. 2015 Jan;70:69-75. doi: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2014.11.013. Epub 2014 Nov
28.

Climate change, human health, and epidemiological transition.

Barrett B(1), Charles JW(2), Temte JL(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Department of 
Family Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1100 Delaplaine Street, 
Madison, WI 53715, United States.. Electronic address: 
bruce.barrett@fammed.wisc.edu.
(2)University of Wisconsin School of Medicine and Public Health, Department of 
Family Medicine, University of Wisconsin-Madison, 1100 Delaplaine Street, 
Madison, WI 53715, United States.

The health of populations depends on the availability of clean air, water, food, 
and sanitation, exposure to pathogens, toxins and environmental hazards, and 
numerous genetic, behavioral and social factors. For many thousands of years, 
human life expectancy was low, and population growth was slow. The development 
of technology-based civilizations facilitated what Abdel Omran called 
"epidemiological transition," with increasing life expectancy and rapid 
population growth. To a large extent, the spectacular growth of human 
populations during the past two centuries was made possible by the energy 
extracted from fossil fuels. We have now learned, however, that greenhouse gases 
from fossil fuel combustion are warming the planet's surface, causing changes in 
oceanic and atmospheric systems, and disrupting weather and hydrological 
patterns. Climate change poses unprecedented threats to human health by impacts 
on food and water security, heat waves and droughts, violent storms, infectious 
disease, and rising sea levels. Whether or not humanity can reduce greenhouse 
gas emissions quickly enough to slow climate change to a rate that will allow 
societies to successfully adapt is not yet known. This essay reviews the current 
state of relevant knowledge, and points in a few directions that those 
interested in human health may wish to consider.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ypmed.2014.11.013
PMCID: PMC4342988
PMID: 25434735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement The authors 
declare that there are no conflicts of interests.


997. J Neurosurg. 2014 Dec;121 Suppl:35-43. doi: 10.3171/2014.7.GKS14980.

A new grading system focusing on neurological outcomes for brain metastases 
treated with stereotactic radiosurgery: the modified Basic Score for Brain 
Metastases.

Serizawa T(1), Higuchi Y, Nagano O, Matsuda S, Ono J, Saeki N, Hirai T, Miyakawa 
A, Shibamoto Y.

Author information:
(1)Tokyo Gamma Unit Center, Tsukiji Neurological Clinic, Tokyo;

OBJECT: The Basic Score for Brain Metastases (BSBM) proposed by Lorenzoni and 
colleagues is one of the best grading systems for predicting survival periods 
after stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) for brain metastases. However, it includes 
no brain factors and cannot predict neurological outcomes, such as preservation 
of neurological function and prevention of neurological death. Herein, the 
authors propose a modified BSBM, adding 4 brain factors to the original BSBM, 
enabling prediction of neurological outcomes, as well as of overall survival, in 
patients undergoing SRS.
METHODS: To serve as neurological prognostic scores (NPSs), the authors scored 4 
significant brain factors for both preservation of neurological function 
(qualitative survival) and prevention of neurological death (neurological 
survival) as 0 or 1 as described in the following: > 10 brain tumors = 0 or ≤ 10 
= 1, total tumor volume > 15 cm(3) = 0 or ≤ 15 cm(3) = 1, MRI findings of 
localized meningeal dissemination (yes = 0 or no = 1), and neurological symptoms 
(yes = 0 or no = 1). According to the sum of NPSs, patients were classified into 
2 subgroups: Subgroup A with a total NPS of 3 or 4 and Subgroup B with an NPS of 
0, 1, or 2. The authors defined the modified BSBM according to the NPS subgroup 
classification applied to the original BSBM groups. The validity of this 
modified BSBM in 2838 consecutive patients with brain metastases treated with 
SRS was verified.
RESULTS: Patients included 1868 with cancer of the lung (including 1604 with 
non-small cell lung cancer), 355 of the gastrointestinal tract, 305 of the 
breast, 176 of the urogenital tract, and 134 with other cancers. Subgroup A had 
2089 patients and Subgroup B 749. Median overall survival times were 2.6 months 
in BSBM 0 (382 patients), 5.7 in BSBM 1 (1143), 11.4 in BSBM 2 (1011) and 21.7 
in BSBM 3 (302), and pairwise differences between the BSBM groups were 
statistically significant (all p < 0.0001). One-year qualitative survival rates 
were 64.6% (modified BSBM 0A, 204 patients), 45.0% (0B, 178), 82.5% (1A, 825), 
63.3% (1B, 318), 86.4% (2A, 792), 73.7% (2B, 219), 91.4% (3A, 268), and 73.5% 
(3B, 34). One-year neurological survival rates were 82.6% (0A), 52.4% (0B), 
90.5% (1A), 78.1% (1B), 91.1% (2A), 83.2% (2B), 93.9% (3A), and 76.3% (3B), 
where A and B identify the subgroup. Statistically significant differences in 
both qualitative and neurological survivals between Subgroups A and B were 
detected in all BSBM groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The authors' new index, the modified BSBM, was found to be 
excellent for predicting neurological outcomes, independently of life 
expectancy, in SRS-treated patients with brain metastases.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.7.GKS14980
PMID: 25434935 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


998. Structure. 2014 Dec 2;22(12):1844-1854. doi: 10.1016/j.str.2014.10.008.

Molecular mechanisms of phospholipase C β3 autoinhibition.

Lyon AM(1), Begley JA(1), Manett TD(1), Tesmer JJG(2).

Author information:
(1)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, 210 Washtenaw Avenue, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-2216, USA; Department of Pharmacology, University of Michigan, 
1150 W. Medical Center Drive, 1301 MSRB III, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA; 
Department of Biological Chemistry, University of Michigan, 1150 W. Medical 
Center Drive, RM 5301 MSRB III, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-0600, USA.
(2)Life Sciences Institute, University of Michigan, 210 Washtenaw Avenue, Ann 
Arbor, MI 48109-2216, USA; Department of Pharmacology, University of Michigan, 
1150 W. Medical Center Drive, 1301 MSRB III, Ann Arbor, MI 48109, USA; 
Department of Biological Chemistry, University of Michigan, 1150 W. Medical 
Center Drive, RM 5301 MSRB III, Ann Arbor, MI 48109-0600, USA. Electronic 
address: tesmerjj@umich.edu.

Phospholipase C β (PLCβ) enzymes are dramatically activated by heterotrimeric G 
proteins. Central to this response is the robust autoinhibition of PLCβ by the 
X-Y linker region within its catalytic core and by the Hα2' helix in the 
C-terminal extension of the enzyme. The molecular mechanism of each and their 
mutual dependence are poorly understood. Herein, it is shown that distinct 
regions within the X-Y linker have specific roles in regulating activity. Most 
important,an acidic stretch within the linker stabilizes a lid that occludes the 
active site, consistent with crystal structures of variants lacking this region. 
Inhibition by the Hα2' helix is independent of the X-Y linker and likely 
regulates activity by limiting membrane interaction of the catalytic core. Full 
activation of PLCβ thus requires multiple independent molecular events induced 
by membrane association of the catalytic core and by the binding of regulatory 
proteins.

DOI: 10.1016/j.str.2014.10.008
PMCID: PMC4308481
PMID: 25435326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors report no conflicts of interest.


999. Rev Psiquiatr Salud Ment. 2015 Oct-Dec;8(4):207-17. doi: 
10.1016/j.rpsm.2014.09.001. Epub 2014 Nov 27.

The Spanish Burden of Disease 2010: Neurological, mental and substance use 
disorders.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Lara E(1), Garin N(1), Ferrari AJ(2), Tyrovolas S(1), Olaya B(1), Sànchez-Riera 
L(3), Whiteford HA(2), Haro JM(4).

Author information:
(1)Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Universitat de Barcelona, Sant Boi de 
Llobregat, Barcelona, España; Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental, CIBERSAM, Madrid, España.
(2)School of Population Health, University of Queensland, Herston, Queensland, 
Australia; Queensland Centre for Mental Health Research, Wacol, Queensland, 
Australia; University of Washington, Institute for Health Metrics and 
Evaluation, Seattle, Washington, EE. UU.
(3)Institut d'Investigació Biomèdica de Bellvitge, Universitat de Barcelona, 
L'Hospitalet de Llobregat, Barcelona, España.
(4)Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Universitat de Barcelona, Sant Boi de 
Llobregat, Barcelona, España; Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Centro de 
Investigación Biomédica en Red de Salud Mental, CIBERSAM, Madrid, España. 
Electronic address: jmharo@pssjd.org.

INTRODUCTION: We used data from the Global Burden of Disease, Injuries, and Risk 
Factors Study 2010 to report on the burden of neuropsychiatric disorders in 
Spain.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The summary measure of burden used in the study was the 
disability-adjusted life-year (DALY), which sums of the years of life lost due 
to premature mortality (YLLs) and the years lived with disability (YLDs). DALYs 
were adjusted for comorbidity and estimated with 95% uncertainty intervals.
RESULTS: The burden of neuropsychiatric disorders accounted for 18.4% of total 
all-cause DALYs generated in Spain for 2010. Within this group, the top five 
leading causes of DALYs were: depressive disorders, Alzheimer's disease, 
migraine, substance-use disorders, and anxiety disorder, which accounted for 
70.9% of all DALYs due to neuropsychiatric disorders. Neurological disorders 
represented 5.03% of total all cause YLLs, whereas mental and substance-use 
disorders accounted for 0.8%. Mental and substance-use disorders accounted for 
22.4% of total YLDs, with depression being the most disabling disorder. 
Neurological disorders represented 8.3% of total YLDs.
CONCLUSIONS: Neuropsychiatric disorders were one of the leading causes of 
disability in 2010. This finding contributes to our understanding of the burden 
of neuropsychiatric disorders in the Spanish population and highlights the 
importance of prioritising neuropsychiatric disorders in the Spanish public 
health system.

Copyright © 2014 SEP y SEPB. Published by Elsevier España. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.rpsm.2014.09.001
PMID: 25435363 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


1000. Cancer Epidemiol. 2015 Feb;39(1):118-25. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2014.11.002.
Epub  2014 Nov 28.

Understanding the impact of socioeconomic differences in breast cancer survival 
in England and Wales: avoidable deaths and potential gain in expectation of 
life.

Rutherford MJ(1), Andersson TM(2), Møller H(3), Lambert PC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, LE1 7RH, UK. 
Electronic address: mark.rutherford@le.ac.uk.
(2)Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm SE-171 77, Sweden.
(3)King's College London, Section of Cancer Epidemiology and Population Health, 
London SE1 9RT, UK.
(4)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, LE1 7RH, UK; 
Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm SE-171 77, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Socioeconomic differences in cancer patient survival are known to 
exist for women diagnosed with breast cancer. Standard metrics tend not to place 
great emphasis on evaluating the actual impact of these differences.
METHODS: We used two alternative, but related, methods of reporting the impact 
of socioeconomic differences for breast cancer patients in England and Wales. We 
calculated the average gain in life years for each patient should socioeconomic 
differences in relative survival be removed and show how this is related to the 
number of all-cause deaths that could be postponed by removing socioeconomic 
differences in cancer patient survival.
RESULTS: Our results indicate that deprivation differences for women with breast 
cancer exist and result in women from more deprived areas losing a larger 
proportion of their life due to a diagnosis of cancer. We also estimate that on 
average 1.1 years could be gained for a 60 year old breast cancer patient in the 
most deprived group by improving their relative survival to match the least 
deprived group. However, our results also show that deprivation differences in 
general survival have a large impact on life expectancy; showing that over 
two-thirds of the gap in differential life expectancy is explained by 
differences in other-cause survival.
CONCLUSION: Socioeconomic differences in relative survival have an impact on 
life expectancy for patients and result in higher early mortality for more 
deprived patients. However, differences in general survival across socioeconomic 
groups explain a larger proportion of the deprivation gap in life expectancy for 
breast cancer patients.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2014.11.002
PMID: 25435402 [Indexed for MEDLINE]
1. Lancet. 2014 Nov 29;384(9958):1927. doi: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62278-9.

Ageing in iran.

Danial Z(1), Motamedi MH(2), Mirhashemi S(2), Kazemi A(3), Mirhashemi AH(4).

Author information:
(1)Trauma Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran. Electronic address: z.danial88@gmail.com.
(2)Trauma Research Center, Baqiyatallah University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, 
Iran.
(3)Shaheed Beheshti University of Medical Sciences Tehran, Iran.
(4)School of Dental Medicine, University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.

DOI: 10.1016/S0140-6736(14)62278-9
PMID: 25435450 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


2. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2014 Nov 30;107(1):380. doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju380. Print
2015  Jan.

Cost-effectiveness of population screening for BRCA mutations in Ashkenazi 
jewish women compared with family history-based testing.

Manchanda R(1), Legood R(1), Burnell M(1), McGuire A(1), Raikou M(1), Loggenberg 
K(1), Wardle J(1), Sanderson S(1), Gessler S(1), Side L(1), Balogun N(1), Desai 
R(1), Kumar A(1), Dorkins H(1), Wallis Y(1), Chapman C(1), Taylor R(1), Jacobs 
C(1), Tomlinson I(1), Beller U(1), Menon U(1), Jacobs I(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynaecological Oncology, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, West 
Smithfield, London, UK, (RM); Department of Women's Cancer, EGA Institute for 
Women's Health, University College London, London, UK (RM, MB, KL, SG, LS, NB, 
RD, UM, IJ); Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK (RL); Department of Health Economics, 
London School of Economics, Houghton Street, London, UK (AM, MR); Behavioural 
Sciences Unit, Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College 
London, London, UK (JW); Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine, New York, NY (SS); Department of Clinical Genetics, North East Thames 
Regional Genetics Unit, Great Ormond Street Hospital, London, UK (AK); NW Thames 
Regional Genetics Service, Kennedy Galton Centre, Middlesex, UK (HD); West 
Midlands Regional Genetics Laboratory, Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation Trust, 
Birmingham, UK (YW); Department of Clinical Genetics, West Midlands Regional 
Genetics Service, Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK (CC); 
South West Thames Molecular Genetics Diagnostic Laboratory, St George's 
University of London, London, UK (RT); Department of Clinical Genetics, Guy's 
Hospital, London, UK (CJ); Welcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Roosevelt 
Drive, Headington Oxford, UK (IT); Department Gynaecology, Shaare Zedek Medical 
Centre, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel (UB); School of 
Medicine, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences & Manchester Academic Health 
Science Center, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK (IJ).
(2)Department of Gynaecological Oncology, St. Bartholomew's Hospital, West 
Smithfield, London, UK, (RM); Department of Women's Cancer, EGA Institute for 
Women's Health, University College London, London, UK (RM, MB, KL, SG, LS, NB, 
RD, UM, IJ); Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of 
Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, UK (RL); Department of Health Economics, 
London School of Economics, Houghton Street, London, UK (AM, MR); Behavioural 
Sciences Unit, Department of Epidemiology and Public Health, University College 
London, London, UK (JW); Genetics and Genomic Sciences, Mount Sinai School of 
Medicine, New York, NY (SS); Department of Clinical Genetics, North East Thames 
Regional Genetics Unit, Great Ormond Street Hospital, London, UK (AK); NW Thames 
Regional Genetics Service, Kennedy Galton Centre, Middlesex, UK (HD); West 
Midlands Regional Genetics Laboratory, Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation Trust, 
Birmingham, UK (YW); Department of Clinical Genetics, West Midlands Regional 
Genetics Service, Birmingham Women's NHS Foundation Trust, Birmingham, UK (CC); 
South West Thames Molecular Genetics Diagnostic Laboratory, St George's 
University of London, London, UK (RT); Department of Clinical Genetics, Guy's 
Hospital, London, UK (CJ); Welcome Trust Centre for Human Genetics, Roosevelt 
Drive, Headington Oxford, UK (IT); Department Gynaecology, Shaare Zedek Medical 
Centre, The Hebrew University of Jerusalem, Jerusalem, Israel (UB); School of 
Medicine, Faculty of Medical and Human Sciences & Manchester Academic Health 
Science Center, University of Manchester, Manchester, UK (IJ). 
ian.jacobs@manchester.ac.uk.

Comment in
    doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju379.
    doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju420.

BACKGROUND: Population-based testing for BRCA1/2 mutations detects the high 
proportion of carriers not identified by cancer family history (FH)-based 
testing. We compared the cost-effectiveness of population-based BRCA testing 
with the standard FH-based approach in Ashkenazi Jewish (AJ) women.
METHODS: A decision-analytic model was developed to compare lifetime costs and 
effects amongst AJ women in the UK of BRCA founder-mutation testing amongst: 1) 
all women in the population age 30 years or older and 2) just those with a 
strong FH (≥10% mutation risk). The model assumes that BRCA carriers are offered 
risk-reducing salpingo-oophorectomy and annual MRI/mammography screening or 
risk-reducing mastectomy. Model probabilities utilize the Genetic Cancer 
Prediction through Population Screening trial/published literature to estimate 
total costs, effects in terms of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), cancer 
incidence, incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), and population impact. 
Costs are reported at 2010 prices. Costs/outcomes were discounted at 3.5%. We 
used deterministic/probabilistic sensitivity analysis (PSA) to evaluate model 
uncertainty.
RESULTS: Compared with FH-based testing, population-screening saved 0.090 more 
life-years and 0.101 more QALYs resulting in 33 days' gain in life expectancy. 
Population screening was found to be cost saving with a baseline-discounted ICER 
of -£2079/QALY. Population-based screening lowered ovarian and breast cancer 
incidence by 0.34% and 0.62%. Assuming 71% testing uptake, this leads to 276 
fewer ovarian and 508 fewer breast cancer cases. Overall, reduction in treatment 
costs led to a discounted cost savings of £3.7 million. Deterministic 
sensitivity analysis and 94% of simulations on PSA (threshold £20000) indicated 
that population screening is cost-effective, compared with current NHS policy.
CONCLUSION: Population-based screening for BRCA mutations is highly 
cost-effective compared with an FH-based approach in AJ women age 30 years and 
older.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/dju380
PMCID: PMC4301704
PMID: 25435542 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


3. Alzheimers Res Ther. 2014 Jul 7;6(4):41. doi: 10.1186/alzrt271. eCollection 
2014.

Cerebral inflammation is an underlying mechanism of early death in Alzheimer's 
disease: a 13-year cause-specific multivariate mortality study.

Nägga K(1), Wattmo C(1), Zhang Y(2), Wahlund LO(2), Palmqvist S(3).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Malmö, Sweden.
(2)Department of Neuroradiology, Karolinska University Hospital, Stockholm, 
Sweden ; Department of Neurobiology, Care Sciences and Society, Section of 
Clinical Geriatrics, Karolinska Institutet, Karolinska University Hospital, 
Stockholm, Sweden.
(3)Clinical Memory Research Unit, Department of Clinical Sciences Malmö, Lund 
University, Malmö, Sweden ; Department of Neurology, Skåne University Hospital, 
Lund SE-221 85, Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: Although Alzheimer's disease (AD) is associated with early death, 
its life expectancy differs greatly between patients. A better understanding of 
this heterogeneity may reveal important disease mechanisms underlying the 
malignancy of AD. The aim of this study was to examine the relation between AD 
pathologies and early death in AD caused by dementia.
METHODS: At a memory clinic, 247 referred consecutive patients with AD were 
monitored during 12.6 ± 1.6 years. Multivariate Cox regression analyses were 
performed with baseline measures of amyloid beta (Aβ) pathology (APOE genotype, 
cerebrospinal fluid (CSF) Aβ42) tau pathology (CSF phosphorylated tau and total 
tau), cerebrovascular pathology (white-matter lesions and CSF/serum albumin 
ratio), neuroinflammatory pathology (CSF soluble vascular cell adhesion 
molecule-1, sVCAM-1), frontal, temporal, and central brain atrophies, global 
cognition, sex, and age. Comorbidities and medications also were analyzed. All 
continuous variables were transformed to z scores to compare hazard ratios (HRs) 
and 95% confidence intervals (CIs).
RESULTS: At follow-up, 89% of the patients had died. The mean survival time was 
6.4 ± 3.0 years. The AD pathology that independently predicted an early death 
caused by dementia was cerebral inflammation (sVCAM-1; HR, 1.32; 95% CI, 
1.07-1.64). Other independent predictors were lower global cognition (HR, 0.51; 
95% CI, 0.43-0.61), frontal atrophy (HR, 1.38; 95% CI, 1.12-1.70), and medial 
temporal atrophy (HR, 1.23; 95% CI, 1.02-1.49). When examining death caused by 
dementia and related causes (vascular diseases and infections), age (HR, 1.23; 
95% CI, 1.04-1.46) and cerebrovascular pathology (white-matter lesions: HR, 
1.17; 95% CI, 1.01-1.36; and CSF/serum albumin ratio: HR, 1.16; 95% CI, 
1.001-1.34) were also significant risk factors in addition to the previous 
variables. No comorbidity or medication was significant in the specific-cause 
models.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first study to link neuroinflammation independently to 
early death in AD and, hence, a rapidly progressing disease. Frontal and medial 
temporal atrophies and low cognition were also significant predictors. These are 
probably downstream biomarkers that reflect neuronal degeneration and late-stage 
disease. Our results suggest that inflammation, and not amyloid or tau 
pathology, is an independent underlying mechanism in the malignancy of AD.

DOI: 10.1186/alzrt271
PMCID: PMC4246671
PMID: 25435921


4. J Clin Med Res. 2015 Feb;7(2):129-33. doi: 10.14740/jocmr2005w. Epub 2014 Nov 
19.

Vertical open patella fracture, treatment, rehabilitation and the moment to 
fixation.

Larangeira JA(1), Bellenzier L(1), Rigo Vda S(1), Ramos Neto EJ(1), Krum FF(1), 
Ribeiro TA(2).

Author information:
(1)Servico de Ortopedia e Traumatologia do Hospital Universitario de Santa Maria 
(SOT - HUSM), Universidade Federal de Santa Maria (UFSM), Santa Maria, Rio 
Grande do Sul (RS), Brazil.
(2)Servico de Ortopedia e Traumatologia do Hospital Universitario de Santa Maria 
(SOT - HUSM), Universidade Federal de Santa Maria (UFSM), Santa Maria, Rio 
Grande do Sul (RS), Brazil ; Departamento de Cirurgia, Centro de Ciencias da 
Saude (CCS), Universidade Federal de Santa Maria (UFSM), Santa Maria, Rio Grande 
do Sul (RS), Brazil.

Patella fracture is relatively uncommon and the vertical trace fracture 
represents almost 12-17%. The open patella fracture expresses 6-30%. The 
association of these two uncommon conditions was the aim of this case report 
even as the treatment and the moment of fixation (definitive surgical 
treatment). A 27-year-old man after a motorcycle accident showed an open patella 
fracture classified as a Gustilo and Anderson type IIIA lesion. The patient was 
immediately treated with precocious surgery fixation with a modified tension 
band which consists of two parallel K-wires positioned orthogonal to the 
fracture line and a cerclage wire shaped anteriorly at patella as an eight. The 
premature fixation benefited the infection prevention and provided earlier joint 
motion, which increased the nutrition of articular cartilage. Six months 
postoperatively, the patient had a satisfactory joint motion with full extension 
and 116° of joint flexion and returned to his daily life activities without 
restriction. Twelve months postoperatively, the patient had full extension and 
120° of knee flexion without pain, joint effusion and instability. Muscle 
strength force was considered normal at grade V. In conclusion, early chirurgic 
treatment and precocious articular mobilization improve prognosis, suggesting 
that the employment of these practices should be adopted whenever possible in 
most of the open fractures.

DOI: 10.14740/jocmr2005w
PMCID: PMC4245067
PMID: 25436033


5. J Thyroid Res. 2014;2014:685425. doi: 10.1155/2014/685425. Epub 2014 Nov 11.

Parathyroid gland involvement by thyroid cancer: results from a large series of 
thyroidectomies performed in two italian university hospitals and review of the 
literature.

Papi G(1), Corrado S(2), Fadda G(3), Maiorana A(2), Maccio L(2), Corsello SM(1), 
Pontecorvi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Endocrinology, Catholic University of Rome, 00168 Rome, Italy.
(2)Institute of Anatomic Pathology, University of Modena and Reggio Emilia, 
41100 Modena, Italy.
(3)Institute of Anatomic Pathology, Catholic University of Rome, 00168 Rome, 
Italy.

Objectives.Parathyroid involvement by thyroid cancer (TC) has not been 
frequently investigated in thyroidectomy-based studies. We aimed to detect cases 
of parathyroid invasion by TC in a large series of thyroidectomies and to review 
the literature on this topic. Study Design. A 10-yr period database research was 
made from the files of the Section of Pathology of two Italian University 
Hospitals. Out of 22,310 thyroidectomies, 10 patients with parathyroid 
involvement by TC were found. Results. The 10 patients, 7 females and 3 males, 
aged 55 ± 14 years (range 34-76, median 56) had papillary thyroid carcinoma and 
accounted for 0.4% of subjects affected by all TCs and submitted to 
thyroidectomy. The tumor invaded perithyroid soft tissues in 6 patients and 
central neck (level VI) lymph nodes in 3. Parathyroid involvement by TC occurred 
by infiltration in 6 cases, extension through an intervening pseudocapsule in 1, 
and both patterns in 3. All patients are alive and disease free at 5.6 ± 3-yr 
follow-up. Conclusion. Limited to thyroidectomy series, our results and 
literature data suggest that parathyroid involvement by TC has a 0.4-3.9% 
incidence rate; mainly affects women in their sixth-seventh decade of life; is 
associated to a good prognosis, unless massive extrathyroid extension of TC 
occurs.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/685425
PMCID: PMC4243597
PMID: 25436171


6. Hepatogastroenterology. 2014 Jul-Aug;61(133):1175-81.

Cost utility analysis of endoscopic biliary stent in unresectable hilar 
cholangiocarcinoma: decision analytic modeling approach.

Sangchan A, Chaiyakunapruk N, Supakankunti S, Pugkhem A, Mairiang P.

BACKGROUND/AIMS: Endoscopic biliary drainage using metal and plastic stent in 
unresectable hilar cholangiocarcinoma (HCA) is widely used but little is known 
about their cost-effectiveness. This study evaluated the cost-utility of 
endoscopic metal and plastic stent drainage in unresectable complex, Bismuth 
type II-IV, HCA patients.
METHODOLOGY: Decision analytic model, Markov model, was used to evaluate cost 
and quality-adjusted life year (QALY) of endoscopic biliary drainage in 
unresectable HCA. Costs of treatment and utilities of each Markov state were 
retrieved from hospital charges and unresectable HCA patients from tertiary care 
hospital in Thailand, respectively. Transition probabilities were derived from 
international literature. Base case analyses and sensitivity analyses were 
performed.
RESULTS: Under the base-case analysis, metal stent is more effective but more 
expensive than plastic stent. An incremental cost per additional QALY gained is 
192,650 baht (US$ 6,318). From probabilistic sensitivity analysis, at the 
willingness to pay threshold of one and three times GDP per capita or 158,000 
baht (US$ 5,182) and 474,000 baht (US$ 15,546), the probability of metal stent 
being cost-effective is 26.4% and 99.8%, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Based on the WHO recommendation regarding the cost-effectiveness 
threshold criteria, endoscopic metal stent drainage is cost-effective compared 
to plastic stent in unresectable complex HCA.

PMID: 25436278 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


7. Health Technol Assess. 2014 Dec;18(69):1-254. doi: 10.3310/hta18690.

Optical coherence tomography for the diagnosis, monitoring and guiding of 
treatment for neovascular age-related macular degeneration: a systematic review 
and economic evaluation.

Mowatt G(1), Hernández R(1), Castillo M(1), Lois N(2), Elders A(1), Fraser C(1), 
Aremu O(3), Amoaku W(4), Burr J(5), Lotery A(6), Ramsay C(1), Azuara-Blanco 
A(2).

Author information:
(1)Health Services Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(2)Centre for Experimental Medicine, Queen's University Belfast, Belfast, UK.
(3)Health Economics Research Unit, University of Aberdeen, Aberdeen, UK.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, Faculty of Medicine and Health Sciences, 
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK.
(5)Medical and Biosocial Sciences, School of Medicine, University of St Andrews, 
St Andrews, UK.
(6)Clinical Neurosciences Research Group, Clinical and Experimental Sciences, 
Faculty of Medicine, University of Southampton, Southampton, UK.

BACKGROUND: Age-related macular degeneration is the most common cause of sight 
impairment in the UK. In neovascular age-related macular degeneration (nAMD), 
vision worsens rapidly (over weeks) due to abnormal blood vessels developing 
that leak fluid and blood at the macula.
OBJECTIVES: To determine the optimal role of optical coherence tomography (OCT) 
in diagnosing people newly presenting with suspected nAMD and monitoring those 
previously diagnosed with the disease.
DATA SOURCES: Databases searched: MEDLINE (1946 to March 2013), MEDLINE 
