
Effect of dilution rate on feline urethral sperm motility, viability, and DNA 
integrity.

Prochowska S(1), Niżański W(2), Ochota M(1), Partyka A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Reproduction and Clinic of Farm Animals, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Wrocław University of Environmental and Life Sciences, Wrocław, 
Poland.
(2)Department of Reproduction and Clinic of Farm Animals, Faculty of Veterinary 
Medicine, Wrocław University of Environmental and Life Sciences, Wrocław, 
Poland. Electronic address: wojciech.nizanski@up.wroc.pl.

This study was designed to investigate if the characteristics of feline urethral 
sperm can be affected by high dilution in an artificial medium. The semen 
collected by urethral catheterization from eight male cats was evaluated for 
sperm concentration and motility and subsequently diluted with a TRIS-based 
extender to the concentration of spermatozoa 10 × 10(6)/mL, 5 × 10(6)/mL, and 1 
× 10(6)/mL. Immediately after the extension samples were assessed for motility, 
cell viability using SYBR-14 and propidium iodide, acrosome integrity using 
lectin from Arachis hypogaea Alexa Fluor 488 Conjugate, and propidium iodide and 
chromatin status by acridine orange. Compared with 10 × 10(6)/mL dilution rate, 
spermatozoa diluted to 1 × 10(6) sperm/mL had a significantly lower proportion 
of motile (31.1% ± 19.8 and 0.7% ± 1.6, respectively, P < 0.05) and viable 
spermatozoa (88.3% ± 3.1 and 69.1% ± 12.8, respectively, P < 0.01). There was no 
dilution-related difference in the acrosome integrity (76.7% ± 11.9 vs. 75.9% ± 
10.6) and chromatin status (defragmentation index, 3.3% ± 0.97 vs. 3.4% ± 1.7). 
These results indicate that feline urethral semen is susceptible to high 
dilution rate, and some sperm characteristics can be artifactually changed by 
semen dilution. It also suggests the potential role of seminal plasma in 
maintaining sperm motility and viability in high dilution rates.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.theriogenology.2014.08.012
PMID: 25262548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


463. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Dec;14(6):815-24. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.957682. Epub 2014 Sep 27.

Biological therapies in Crohn's disease: are they cost-effective? A critical 
appraisal of model-based analyses.

Marchetti M(1), Liberato NL.

Author information:
(1)Hematology Unit, Azienda Sanitaria Locale, Ospedale "Cardinal Massaia", Asti, 
Italy.

In refractory Crohn's disease, anti-TNF and anti-α 4 integrin agents are used 
for ameliorating disease activity but impose high costs to health-care systems. 
The authors systematically reviewed cost-effectiveness analyses based on 
decision models: most of the studies were judged to have a good quality, but a 
large portion assessed health and costs in a short time horizon, usually 
disregarding fistulizing disease and not considering safety. Infliximab 
induction followed by on-demand retreatment consistently proved to have a good 
cost per quality-adjusted life year, while maintenance treatment never satisfied 
commonly accepted cost-utility thresholds. Challenges in cost-effectiveness 
analysis include the lack of a standard model structure, a large variability in 
the costs of surgery and poor data on indirect costs. As clinical practice is 
moving to mucosal healing as a robust response marker, personalized schedules of 
anti-TNF therapies might prove cost-effective even in the perspective of the 
health-care system in the near future.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.957682
PMID: 25262931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


464. HPB (Oxford). 2015 Mar;17(3):222-5. doi: 10.1111/hpb.12339. Epub 2014 Sep
28.

What determines ageing of the transplanted liver?

Hodgson R(1), Christophi C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, University of Melbourne, Melbourne, Victoria, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Liver transplantation is used to treat patients with irreversible 
liver failure from a variety of causes. Long-term survival has been reported, 
particularly in the paediatric population, with graft survival longer than 20 
years now possible. The goal for paediatric liver transplantation is to increase 
the longevity of grafts to match the normal life expectancy of the child. This 
paper reviews the literature on the current understanding of ageing of the liver 
and biomarkers that may predict long-term survival or aid in utilization of 
organs.
METHODS: Scientific papers published from 1950 to 2013 were sought and extracted 
from the MEDLINE, PubMed and University of Melbourne databases.
RESULTS: Hepatocytes appear resistant to the ageing process, but are affected by 
both replicative senescence and stress-related senescence. These processes may 
be exacerbated by the act of transplantation. The most studied biomarkers are 
telomeres and SMP-30.
CONCLUSION: There are many factors that play a role in the ageing of the liver. 
Further studies into biomarkers of ageing and their relationship to the 
chronological age of the liver are required to aid in predicting long-term graft 
survival and utilization of organs.

© 2014 International Hepato-Pancreato-Biliary Association.

DOI: 10.1111/hpb.12339
PMCID: PMC4333782
PMID: 25263287 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


465. Semergen. 2014 May;40 Suppl 1:10-6. doi: 10.1016/S1138-3593(14)74382-5.

[Treatment of older persons with diabetes].

[Article in Spanish]

Fernández MA(1).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Salud de La Eria, Oviedo, España. Electronic address: 
margaovi@gmail.com.

The prevalence of diabetes increases with age. In Spain, almost a third of 
persons older than 75 years have diabetes, and 10% of cases are undiagnosed. The 
approach in this age group is influenced by the coexistence of comorbidities and 
geriatric syndromes, as well as by the polypharmacy found in these patients. All 
the clinical practice guidelines recommend that glycemic control be individually 
tailored according to such factors as disease duration, the presence of 
complications, functional status, life expectancy, and the patient's 
environment, among other elements. In general, the therapeutic approach in older 
persons does not differ from that recommended in the younger population: it 
should be multifactorial, considering lifestyle modifications and control of 
hyperglycemia and the remaining cardiovascular risk factors. The main limitation 
is hypoglycemia, which is the most common and severe factor in this age group. 
Therapeutic recommendations in elderly persons with diabetes are based on expert 
opinion, since these patients are usually excluded from clinical trials. 
Consequently, clinical judgment is required to optimize the treatment of 
diabetes, with an emphasis on interventions to prevent symptoms and improve 
quality of life. DPP-4 inhibitors can be used, due to their low risk of 
hypoglycemias and safety. Before any treatment is started, its risk/benefit 
ratio should be evaluated, along with the patient's functional and cognitive 
status.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier España, S.L. y Sociedad Española de Medicina Rural y 
Generalista (SEMERGEN). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1138-3593(14)74382-5
PMID: 25263638 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


466. J Epidemiol. 2015;25(1):57-65. doi: 10.2188/jea.JE20140017. Epub 2014 Sep
27.

The relationship between disability-adjusted life years of cataracts and ambient 
erythemal ultraviolet radiation in China.

Zhu M(1), Yu J, Gao Q, Wang Y, Hu L, Zheng Y, Wang F, Liu Y.

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, China Medical University.

Erratum in
    J Epidemiol. 2015;25(2):178.

BACKGROUND: Cataracts are one of the major public health problems worldwide. 
Ultraviolet radiation (UVR) is one of the risk factors for cataract development. 
We analyzed the relationship between disability-adjusted life year (DALY) rates 
of cataracts and UVR exposure in China.
METHODS: DALY rates of cataracts and UVR exposure in 31 regions of China were 
calculated based on data from the Second China National Sample Survey on 
Disability and the United States' National Aeronautics and Space Administration 
database. The relationship between the DALY rates of cataracts and UVR was 
estimated by Spearman rank correlation analysis and linear regression analysis.
RESULTS: The elderly (≥ 65 years) had higher DALY rates of cataracts than the 
whole population. The DALY rate of cataracts in the agricultural population was 
higher than that observed in the non-agricultural population. The DALY rates of 
cataracts were positively associated with UVR The DALY rates of cataracts in 
regions with higher UVR were higher than those in regions with lower UVR. An 
increase in the daily ambient erythemal UVR of 1000 J/m(2) was associated with 
an increase in the DALY rates of cataracts by 92 DALYs/100 000 (R(2) = 0.676) 
among the whole population, 34 DALYs/100 000 among the population < 65 years old 
(R(2) = 0.423), 607 DALYs/100 000 among the population aged 65-74 years (R(2) = 
0.617), and by 1342 DALYs/100 000 among the population ≥ 75 years old (R(2) = 
0.758).
CONCLUSIONS: DALY rates of cataracts increased with increases in UVR exposure in 
31 regions of China. Greater exposure to UVR increases the disease burden of 
cataracts in the whole population, especially in the elderly and among the 
agricultural population.

DOI: 10.2188/jea.JE20140017
PMCID: PMC4275439
PMID: 25263793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


467. Schizophr Res. 2014 Nov;159(2-3):303-8. doi: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.09.014.
Epub  2014 Sep 26.

Risk of schizophrenia and minority status: a comparison of the Swedish-speaking 
minority and the Finnish-speaking majority in Finland.

Suvisaari J(1), Opler M(2), Lindbohm ML(3), Sallmén M(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mental Health and Substance Abuse Services, National Institute 
for Health and Welfare, P.O.BOX 30, FI-00271 Helsinki, Finland; Tampere School 
of Public Health, University of Tampere, FI-33014 Tampere, Finland. Electronic 
address: jaana.suvisaari@thl.fi.
(2)NYU School of Medicine, Department of Psychiatry,1 Park Avenue, New York, NY 
10016, USA. Electronic address: mark.opler@prophase.com.
(3)Centre of Expertise for Health and Work Ability, Finnish Institute of 
Occupational Health, Topeliuksenkatu 41 aA, FI-00250 Helsinki, Finland. 
Electronic address: marja-liisa.lindbohm@ttl.fi.
(4)Centre of Expertise for Health and Work Ability, Finnish Institute of 
Occupational Health, Topeliuksenkatu 41 aA, FI-00250 Helsinki, Finland. 
Electronic address: markku.sallmen@ttl.fi.

Approximately five percent of the Finnish population are Swedish-speaking and 
have higher socioeconomic position and longer life expectancy than the 
Finnish-speaking majority. Previous studies have not investigated whether 
Swedish-speaking Finns have lower risk of schizophrenia spectrum disorders (SSD) 
than Finnish-speaking Finns. We investigated this in a representative sample of 
47 445 Finns born in 1972-1984. Hazard ratios of SSD between language groups 
were assessed with conditional proportional hazards regression. Sex, parental 
ages at birth, paternal employment around conception, parental psychosis and 
place and residence in the capital area were used as other explanatory 
variables. The prevalence of SSD was 0.7% in the Swedish-speaking minority and 
1.5% in the Finnish-speaking majority. In the adjusted regression model, 
belonging to the Swedish-speaking minority was associated with lower risk of SSD 
(hazard ratio (HR) 0.41, 95% confidence interval (CI) 0.24-0.69). In a subset 
analysis by gender, the protective effect was evident among Swedish-speaking 
males (HR 0.32, 95% CI 0.15-0.68) but marginal in females (HR 0.75, 95% CI 
0.41-1.37). Parental psychosis and place of birth in the capital area were 
associated with higher risk of SSD, whereas paternal employment at the time of 
conception was associated with lower risk of SSD. Our results support the role 
of social factors in the etiology of schizophrenia. Belonging to a minority with 
high socioeconomic status and social capital may be protective against 
schizophrenia, especially for males.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.schres.2014.09.014
PMCID: PMC4253724
PMID: 25263996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest Jaana Suvisaari has served 
as a consultant for Janssen Cilag in a study that is not related to this 
manuscript and has received a lecturing fee from AstraZeneca. The other authors 
report no conflicts of interest.


468. Persoonia. 2014 Jun;32:127-40. doi: 10.3767/003158514X680261. Epub 2014 Mar
20.

Phylogeny and taxonomy of the genus Gliocephalotrichum.

Lombard L(1), Serrato-Diaz LM(2), Cheewangkoon R(3), French-Monar RD(2), Decock 
C(4), Crous PW(5).

Author information:
(1)CBS-KNAW Fungal Biodiversity Centre, Uppsalalaan 8, 3584 CT Utrecht, The 
Netherlands;
(2)Department of Plant Pathology and Microbiology, Texas A&M AgriLife Extension 
Service, 6500 Amarillo Blvd W. Amarillo, Texas 79106, USA.
(3)Department of Entomology and Plant Pathology, Faculty of Agriculture, Chiang 
Mai University, Chiang Mai 50200, Thailand.
(4)Mycothèque de l'Université catholique de Louvain (BCCM/MUCL), Earth and Life 
Institute, Université catholique de Louvain, Place Croix du Sud 2 bte L07.05.06, 
1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.
(5)CBS-KNAW Fungal Biodiversity Centre, Uppsalalaan 8, 3584 CT Utrecht, The 
Netherlands; ; Microbiology, Department of Biology, Utrecht University, 
Padualaan 8, 3584 CH Utrecht, The Netherlands. ; Laboratory of Phytopathology, 
Wageningen University and Research Centre (WUR), Doevendaalsesteeg 1, 6708 PD 
Wageningen, The Netherlands.

Species in the genus Gliocephalotrichum (= Leuconectria) (Hypocreales, 
Nectriaceae) are soilborne fungi, associated with post-harvest fruit spoilage of 
several important tropical fruit crops. Contemporary taxonomic studies of these 
fungi have relied on morphology and DNA sequence comparisons of the internal 
transcribed spacer region of the nuclear rDNA (ITS) and the β-tubulin gene 
regions. Employing DNA sequence data from four loci (β-tubulin, histone H3, ITS, 
and translation elongation factor 1-alpha) and morphological comparisons, the 
taxonomic status of the genus Gliocephalotrichum was re-evaluated. As a result 
five species are newly described, namely G. humicola (Taiwan, soil), G. 
mexicanum (rambutan fruit from Mexico), G. nephelii (rambutan fruit from 
Guatemala), G. queenslandicum (Australia, endophytic isolations) and G. 
simmonsii (rambutan fruit from Guatemala). Although species of 
Gliocephalotrichum are generally not regarded as important plant pathogens, 
their ability to cause post-harvest fruit rot could have an impact on fruit 
export and storage.

DOI: 10.3767/003158514X680261
PMCID: PMC4150073
PMID: 25264387


469. Rev Invest Clin. 2014 Jul;66 Suppl 1:S32-8.

Finite-element analysis of the effect of basic hip movements on the mechanical 
stimulus within a proximal femur.

Tovar-López FJ, Domínguez-Hernández VM(1), Diez-García Mdel P, Araujo-Monsalvo 
VM.

Author information:
(1)Laboratorio de Biomecánica. Instituto Nacional de Rehabilitación.

Osteoporosis is a serious and multifactorial disease. The number of people 
affected with osteoporosis is increasing due to the lengthening of life 
expectancy. Currently, unlike the genetic, nutritional and hormonal factors that 
have been the focus of most studies of osteoporosis, mechanical stimuli that 
potentially can produce an increase in bone strength have not been well studied. 
Studies suggest that the relationship between the health of the bone and 
mechanical stimuli occurs through bone adaptive remodeling, which is activated 
by means of the shear stress transmitted by the interstitial fluid flow. The 
present work consists of a finite element analysis of a femur to simulate the 
basic movements of the hip (flexion, extension, abduction, and adduction) to 
compare the shear stresses in a common zone of fracture and in the critical 
mechanical strength zones of the femoral head. A comparison of the distribution 
and magnitude of the shear stresses was performed to estimate the movement that 
could induce a more rapid adaptive bone remodeling. This study is the first step 
in the development of a physical therapy for a preventive rehabilitation that 
helps to prevent patients with low bone mineral density to avoid suffering 
osteoporosis hip fractures. The finite element model was constructed using a 
free-access three-dimensional standardized femur obtained from the Instituti 
Ortopedici Rizzoli, Bologna, Italy. The mechanical properties and the muscular 
forces were obtained from a specialized bibliography. We conclude that the 
movements that exhibit a higher mean value and a good shear stress distribution 
in the femoral neck are hip extension and abduction.

PMID: 25264795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


470. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 29;9(9):e107671. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107671. 
eCollection 2014.

Prohibitin-mediated lifespan and mitochondrial stress implicate SGK-1, 
insulin/IGF and mTORC2 in C. elegans.

Gatsi R(1), Schulze B(2), Rodríguez-Palero MJ(1), Hernando-Rodríguez B(1), 
Baumeister R(3), Artal-Sanz M(4).

Author information:
(1)CABD, Centro Andaluz de Biología del Desarrollo, CSIC-Universidad Pablo de 
Olavide-Junta de Andalucía, Sevilla, Spain.
(2)Centre for Biological Signalling Studies (BIOSS), Albert-Ludwigs-University 
of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany; Laboratory for Bioinformatics and Molecular 
Genetics, Faculty of Biology, Albert-Ludwigs-University of Freiburg, Freiburg, 
Germany.
(3)Centre for Biological Signalling Studies (BIOSS), Albert-Ludwigs-University 
of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany; Laboratory for Bioinformatics and Molecular 
Genetics, Faculty of Biology, Albert-Ludwigs-University of Freiburg, Freiburg, 
Germany; Center for Biochemistry and Molecular Cell Research, Faculty of 
Medicine, Albert-Ludwigs-University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.
(4)CABD, Centro Andaluz de Biología del Desarrollo, CSIC-Universidad Pablo de 
Olavide-Junta de Andalucía, Sevilla, Spain; Centre for Biological Signalling 
Studies (BIOSS), Albert-Ludwigs-University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany; 
Laboratory for Bioinformatics and Molecular Genetics, Faculty of Biology, 
Albert-Ludwigs-University of Freiburg, Freiburg, Germany.

Lifespan regulation by mitochondrial proteins has been well described, however, 
the mechanism of this regulation is not fully understood. Amongst the 
mitochondrial proteins profoundly affecting ageing are prohibitins (PHB-1 and 
PHB-2). Paradoxically, in C. elegans prohibitin depletion shortens the lifespan 
of wild type animals while dramatically extending that of metabolically 
compromised animals, such as daf-2-insulin-receptor mutants. Here we show that 
amongst the three kinases known to act downstream of daf-2, only loss of 
function of sgk-1 recapitulates the ageing phenotype observed in daf-2 mutants 
upon prohibitin depletion. Interestingly, signalling through SGK-1 receives 
input from an additional pathway, parallel to DAF-2, for the prohibitin-mediated 
lifespan phenotype. We investigated the effect of prohibitin depletion on the 
mitochondrial unfolded protein response (UPRmt). Remarkably, the lifespan 
extension upon prohibitin elimination, of both daf-2 and sgk-1 mutants, is 
accompanied by suppression of the UPRmt induced by lack of prohibitin. On the 
contrary, gain of function of SGK-1 results in further shortening of lifespan 
and a further increase of the UPRmt in prohibitin depleted animals. Moreover, 
SGK-1 interacts with RICT-1 for the regulation of the UPRmt in a parallel 
pathway to DAF-2. Interestingly, prohibitin depletion in rict-1 loss of function 
mutant animals also causes lifespan extension. Finally, we reveal an 
unprecedented role for mTORC2-SGK-1 in the regulation of mitochodrial 
homeostasis. Together, these results give further insight into the mechanism of 
lifespan regulation by mitochondrial function and reveal a cross-talk of 
mitochondria with two key pathways, Insulin/IGF and mTORC2, for the regulation 
of ageing and stress response.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0107671
PMCID: PMC4180437
PMID: 25265021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


471. Health Technol Assess. 2014 Sep;18(59):1-120. doi: 10.3310/hta18590.

Systematic review and modelling of the cost-effectiveness of cardiac magnetic 
resonance imaging compared with current existing testing pathways in ischaemic 
cardiomyopathy.

Campbell F(1), Thokala P(1), Uttley LC(1), Sutton A(1), Sutton AJ(2), 
Al-Mohammad A(3), Thomas SM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.
(2)Department of Health Sciences, University of Leicester, Leicester, UK.
(3)Sheffield Teaching Hospitals, Sheffield, UK.

BACKGROUND: Cardiac magnetic resonance imaging (CMR) is increasingly used to 
assess patients for myocardial viability prior to revascularisation. This is 
important to ensure that only those likely to benefit are subjected to the risk 
of revascularisation.
OBJECTIVES: To assess current evidence on the accuracy and cost-effectiveness of 
CMR to test patients prior to revascularisation in ischaemic cardiomyopathy; to 
develop an economic model to assess cost-effectiveness for different imaging 
strategies; and to identify areas for further primary research.
DATA SOURCES: Databases searched were: MEDLINE including MEDLINE In-Process & 
Other Non-Indexed Citations Initial searches were conducted in March 2011 in the 
following databases with dates: MEDLINE including MEDLINE In-Process & Other 
Non-Indexed Citations via Ovid (1946 to March 2011); Bioscience Information 
Service (BIOSIS) Previews via Web of Science (1969 to March 2011); EMBASE via 
Ovid (1974 to March 2011); Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews via The 
Cochrane Library (1996 to March 2011); Cochrane Central Register of Controlled 
Trials via The Cochrane Library 1998 to March 2011; Database of Abstracts of 
Reviews of Effects via The Cochrane Library (1994 to March 2011); NHS Economic 
Evaluation Database via The Cochrane Library (1968 to March 2011); Health 
Technology Assessment Database via The Cochrane Library (1989 to March 2011); 
and the Science Citation Index via Web of Science (1900 to March 2011). 
Additional searches were conducted from October to November 2011 in the 
following databases with dates: MEDLINE including MEDLINE In-Process & Other 
Non-Indexed Citations via Ovid (1946 to November 2011); BIOSIS Previews via Web 
of Science (1969 to October 2011); EMBASE via Ovid (1974 to November 2011); 
Cochrane Database of Systematic Reviews via The Cochrane Library (1996 to 
November 2011); Cochrane Central Register of Controlled Trials via The Cochrane 
Library (1998 to November 2011); Database of Abstracts of Reviews of Effects via 
The Cochrane Library (1994 to November 2011); NHS Economic Evaluation Database 
via The Cochrane Library (1968 to November 2011); Health Technology Assessment 
Database via The Cochrane Library (1989 to November 2011); and the Science 
Citation Index via Web of Science (1900 to October 2011). Electronic databases 
were searched March-November 2011.
REVIEW METHODS: The systematic review selected studies that assessed the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of CMR to establish the role of 
CMR in viability assessment compared with other imaging techniques: stress 
echocardiography, single-photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and 
positron emission tomography (PET). Studies had to have an appropriate reference 
standard and contain accuracy data or sufficient details so that accuracy data 
could be calculated. Data were extracted by two reviewers and discrepancies 
resolved by discussion. Quality of studies was assessed using the QUADAS II tool 
(University of Bristol, Bristol, UK). A rigorous diagnostic accuracy systematic 
review assessed clinical and cost-effectiveness of CMR in viability assessment. 
A health economic model estimated costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
accrued by diagnostic pathways for identifying patients with viable myocardium 
in ischaemic cardiomyopathy with a view to revascularisation. The pathways 
involved CMR, stress echocardiography, SPECT, PET alone or in combination. 
Strategies of no testing and revascularisation were included to determine the 
most cost-effective strategy.
RESULTS: Twenty-four studies met the inclusion criteria. All were prospective. 
Participant numbers ranged from 8 to 52. The mean left ventricular ejection 
fraction in studies reporting this outcome was 24-62%. CMR approaches included 
stress CMR and late gadolinium-enhanced cardiovascular magnetic resonance 
imaging (CE CMR). Recovery following revascularisation was the reference 
standard. Twelve studies assessed diagnostic accuracy of stress CMR and 14 
studies assessed CE CMR. A bivariate regression model was used to calculate the 
sensitivity and specificity of CMR. Summary sensitivity and specificity for 
stress CMR was 82.2% [95% confidence interval (CI) 73.2% to 88.7%] and 87.1% 
(95% CI 80.4% to 91.7%) and for CE CMR was 95.5% (95% CI 94.1% to 96.7%) and 53% 
(95% CI 40.4% to 65.2%) respectively. The sensitivity and specificity of PET, 
SPECT and stress echocardiography were calculated using data from 10 studies and 
systematic reviews. The sensitivity of PET was 94.7% (95% CI 90.3% to 97.2%), of 
SPECT was 85.1% (95% CI 78.1% to 90.2%) and of stress echocardiography was 77.6% 
(95% CI 70.7% to 83.3%). The specificity of PET was 68.8% (95% CI 50% to 82.9%), 
of SPECT was 62.1% (95% CI 52.7% to 70.7%) and of stress echocardiography was 
69.6% (95% CI 62.4% to 75.9%). All currently used diagnostic strategies were 
cost-effective compared with no testing at current National Institute for Health 
and Care Excellence thresholds. If the annual mortality rates for non-viable 
patients were assumed to be higher for revascularised patients, then testing 
with CE CMR was most cost-effective at a threshold of £20,000/QALY. The 
proportion of model runs in which each strategy was most cost-effective, at a 
threshold of £20,000/QALY, was 40% for CE CMR, 42% for PET and 16.5% for 
revascularising everyone. The expected value of perfect information at 
£20,000/QALY was £620 per patient. If all patients (viable or not) gained 
benefit from revascularisation, then it was most cost-effective to revascularise 
all patients.
LIMITATIONS: Definitions and techniques assessing viability were highly 
variable, making data extraction and comparisons difficult. Lack of evidence 
meant assumptions were made in the model leading to uncertainty; differing 
scenarios were generated around key assumptions.
CONCLUSIONS: All the diagnostic pathways are a cost-effective use of NHS 
resources. Given the uncertainty in the mortality rates, the cost-effectiveness 
analysis was performed using a set of scenarios. The cost-effectiveness analyses 
suggest that CE CMR and revascularising everyone were the optimal strategies. 
Future research should look at implementation costs for this type of imaging 
service, provide guidance on consistent reporting of diagnostic testing data for 
viability assessment, and focus on the impact of revascularisation or best 
medical therapy in this group of high-risk patients.
FUNDING: The National Institute of Health Technology Assessment programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta18590
PMCID: PMC4781084
PMID: 25265259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


472. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 29;9(9):e108540. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108540. 
eCollection 2014.

Individualizing life expectancy estimates for older adults using the Gompertz 
Law of Human Mortality.

Lee SJ(1), Boscardin WJ(1), Kirby KA(1), Covinsky KE(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, University of California San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA, United States of America.

BACKGROUND: Guidelines recommend incorporating life expectancy (LE) into 
clinical decision-making for preventive interventions such as cancer screening. 
Previous research focused on mortality risk (e.g. 28% at 4 years) which is more 
difficult to interpret than LE (e.g. 7.3 years) for both patients and 
clinicians. Our objective was to utilize the Gompertz Law of Human Mortality 
which states that mortality risk doubles in a fixed time interval to transform 
the Lee mortality index into a LE calculator.
METHODS: We examined community-dwelling older adults age 50 and over enrolled in 
the nationally representative 1998 wave of the Health and Retirement Study or 
HRS (response rate 81%), dividing study respondents into development (n = 11701) 
and validation (n = 8009) cohorts. In the development cohort, we fit 
proportional hazards Gompertz survival functions for each of the risk groups 
defined by the Lee mortality index. We validated our LE estimates by comparing 
our predicted LE with observed survival in the HRS validation cohort and an 
external validation cohort from the 2004 wave of the English Longitudinal Study 
on Ageing or ELSA (n = 7042).
RESULTS: The ELSA cohort had a lower 8-year mortality risk (14%) compared to our 
HRS development (23%) and validation cohorts (25%). Our model had good 
discrimination in the validation cohorts (Harrell's c 0.78 in HRS and 0.80 in 
the ELSA). Our predicted LE's were similar to observed survival in the HRS 
validation cohort without evidence of miscalibration (Hosmer-Lemeshow, p = 0.2 
at 8 years). However, our predicted LE's were longer than observed survival in 
the ELSA cohort with evidence of miscalibration (Hosmer-Lemeshow, p<0.001 at 8 
years) reflecting the lower mortality rate in ELSA.
CONCLUSION: We transformed a previously validated mortality index into a LE 
calculator that incorporated patient-level risk factors. Our LE calculator may 
help clinicians determine which preventive interventions are most appropriate 
for older US adults.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108540
PMCID: PMC4180452
PMID: 25265291 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


473. N Engl J Med. 2014 Oct 2;371(14):1344-53. doi: 10.1056/NEJMsr1405012. Epub
2014  Sep 29.

Health and health care in South Africa--20 years after Mandela.

Mayosi BM(1), Benatar SR.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Medicine, Groote Schuur Hospital and University of 
Cape Town, Cape Town, South Africa.

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2015 Jan 1;372(1):96.
    N Engl J Med. 2015 Jan 1;372(1):95.

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMsr1405012
PMID: 25265493 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


474. Can J Neurosci Nurs. 2014;36(2):8-14.

Challenges in providing culturally-competent care to patients with metastatic 
brain tumours and their families.

Longo L, Slater S.

Erratum in
    Can J Neurosci Nurs. 2014;36(3):9.

Being diagnosed with a metastatic brain tumour can be devastating as it is 
characterized by very low cure rates, as well as significant morbidity and 
mortality. Given the poor life expectancy and progressive disability that 
ensues, patients and family members experience much turmoil, which includes 
losses that bring about changes to family roles, routines and relationships. 
Crisis and conflict are common during such major disruptions to a family system, 
as individual members attempt to make sense of the illness experience based on 
cultural and spiritual beliefs, past experiences and personal philosophies. It 
is imperative health care providers strive towards increased awareness and 
knowledge of how culture affects the overall experience of illness and death in 
order to help create a mutually satisfactory care plan. Providing 
culturally-competent care entails the use of proper communication skills to 
facilitate the exploration of patient and family perspectives and allows for 
mutual decision making. A case study will illustrate the challenges encountered 
in providing culturally-competent care to a woman with brain cancer and her 
family. As the patient's health declined, the family entered into a state of 
crisis where communication between family members and health care professionals 
was strained; leading to conflict and sub-optimal outcomes. This paper will 
address the ethical dilemma of providing culturally-competent care when a 
patient's safety is at risk, and the nursing implications of upholding best 
practices in the context of differing beliefs and priorities.

PMID: 25265763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


475. Eur J Health Econ. 2015 Dec;16(9):917-25. doi: 10.1007/s10198-014-0634-0.
Epub  2014 Sep 30.

Values for health states with different life durations.

Scalone L(1), Stalmeier PF(2), Milani S(3), Krabbe PF(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Medicine and Prevention, Faculty of Medicine, Research 
Centre on Public Health, University of Milano-Bicocca, Villa Serena, Via 
Pergolesi 33, 20052, Monza, Italy. luciana.scalone@unimib.it.
(2)Department for Health Evidence, Radboud University Medical Centre, P.O. Box 
9101, 6500 HB, Nijmegen, The Netherlands.
(3)Department of Occupational Medicine, Institute of Medical Statistics and 
Biometrics "GA Maccacaro", Faculty of Medicine, University of Milano, Cascina 
Rosa, Via Vanzetti 5, 20133, Milano, Italy.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, University Medical Center Groningen, University 
of Groningen, P.O. Box 30.001, 9700 RB, Groningen, The Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Recent research suggests that the value of health states may depend 
on their duration, implying a more complex relationship between quality and 
quantity of life than the standard linear relationship assumed in the 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) model.
OBJECTIVE: This study models how duration affects the value of health states, 
using discrete choice data.
METHODS: A study was conducted comprising health profiles including various 
durations. Health states were described with the EQ-5D. Duration was introduced 
as a sixth domain with six levels (1, 5, 10, 15, 30, 50 years). Sixty pairs of 
health profiles were selected, applying a Bayesian approach. Two hundred eight 
university students self-completed the computerized response tasks. Data were 
analyzed with a conditional logistic regression model.
RESULTS: There is clear evidence for non-linear values for duration, that is, 
preferences for duration are more accurately described by a logarithmic 
function.
CONCLUSIONS: In discrete choice experiments using health states with different 
durations, these data present the first evidence for decreasing marginal utility 
for duration. Our results suggest that refinement of the standard QALY framework 
may be needed for states with a long duration.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-014-0634-0
PMID: 25266301 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


476. Endocr Relat Cancer. 2014;21(6):891-902. doi: 10.1530/ERC-14-0147. Epub 2014
Sep  29.

Quantification of BRAF V600E alleles predicts papillary thyroid cancer 
progression.

Kim MH(1), Bae JS(1), Lim DJ(1), Lee H(1), Jeon SR(2), Park GS(1), Jung CK(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and MetabolismDepartment of Internal 
MedicineDepartment of SurgeryDepartment of Hospital PathologyMedical Life 
SciencesCollege of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, 222 Banpodaero, 
Seocho-gu, Seoul 137-701, Republic of Korea.
(2)Division of Endocrinology and MetabolismDepartment of Internal 
MedicineDepartment of SurgeryDepartment of Hospital PathologyMedical Life 
SciencesCollege of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, 222 Banpodaero, 
Seocho-gu, Seoul 137-701, Republic of Korea Division of Endocrinology and 
MetabolismDepartment of Internal MedicineDepartment of SurgeryDepartment of 
Hospital PathologyMedical Life SciencesCollege of Medicine, The Catholic 
University of Korea, 222 Banpodaero, Seocho-gu, Seoul 137-701, Republic of 
Korea.
(3)Division of Endocrinology and MetabolismDepartment of Internal 
MedicineDepartment of SurgeryDepartment of Hospital PathologyMedical Life 
SciencesCollege of Medicine, The Catholic University of Korea, 222 Banpodaero, 
Seocho-gu, Seoul 137-701, Republic of Korea ckjung@catholic.ac.kr.

The BRAF V600E mutation is the most common genetic alteration in thyroid cancer. 
However, its clinicopathological significance and clonal mutation frequency 
remain unclear. To clarify the inconsistent results, we investigated the 
association between the allelic frequency of BRAF V600E and the 
clinicopathological features of classic papillary thyroid carcinoma (PTC). 
Tumour tissues from two independent sets of patients with classic PTC were 
manually microdissected and analysed for the presence or absence of the BRAF 
mutation and the mutant allelic frequency using quantitative pyrosequencing. For 
external validation, the Cancer Genome Atlas (TCGA) data were analysed. The BRAF 
V600E mutation was found in 264 (82.2%) out of 321 classic PTCs in the training 
set. The presence of BRAF V600E was only associated with extrathyroidal 
extension and the absence of thyroiditis. In BRAF V600E-positive tumours, the 
mutant allelic frequency varied from 8 to 41% of the total BRAF alleles (median, 
20%) and directly correlated with tumour size and the number of metastatic lymph 
nodes. Lymph node metastases were more frequent in PTCs with a high (≥20%) 
abundance of mutant alleles than in those with a low abundance of mutant alleles 
(P=0.010). These results were reinforced by validation dataset (n=348) analysis 
but were not reproduced in the TCGA dataset. In a population with prevalent BRAF 
mutations, quantitative analysis of the BRAF mutation could provide additional 
information regarding tumour behaviour, which is not reflected by qualitative 
analysis. Nonetheless, prospective studies are needed before the mutated allele 
percentage can be considered as a prognostic factor.

© 2014 Society for Endocrinology.

DOI: 10.1530/ERC-14-0147
PMID: 25266729 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


477. J Paediatr Child Health. 2015 May;51(5):524-528. doi: 10.1111/jpc.12742.
Epub  2014 Sep 30.

Comparing CRIB-II and SNAPPE-II as mortality predictors for very preterm 
infants.

Reid S(1)(2), Bajuk B(3), Lui K(4), Sullivan EA(5); NSW and ACT Neonatal 
Intensive Care Units Audit Group, PSN(3).

Author information:
(1)RPA Newborn Care, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(2)Faculty of Nursing and Midwifery, University of Sydney, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(3)NSW Pregnancy and Newborn Services Network (PSN), Sydney, New South Wales, 
Australia.
(4)Department of Newborn Care, Royal Hospital for Women, Sydney, New South 
Wales, Australia.
(5)University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, New South Wales, Australia.

AIMS: This article compares the severity of illness scoring systems clinical 
risk index for babies (CRIB)-II and score for neonatal acute physiology with 
perinatal extension (SNAPPE)-II for discriminatory ability and goodness of fit 
in the same cohort of babies of less than 32 weeks gestation and aims to provide 
validation in the Australian population.
METHODS: CRIB-II and SNAPPE-II scores were collected on the same cohort of 
preterm infants born within a 2-year period, 2003 and 2004. The discriminatory 
ability of each score was assessed by the area under the receiver operator 
characteristic curve, and goodness of fit was assessed by the Hosmer-Lemeshow 
(HL) test. The outcome measure was in-hospital mortality. A multivariate 
logistic regression model was tested for perinatal variables that might add to 
the risk of in-hospital mortality.
RESULTS: Data for both scores were available for 1607 infants. Both scores had 
good discriminatory ability (CRIB-II area under the curve 0.913, standard error 
(SE) 0.014; SNAPPE-II area under the curve 0.907, SE 0.012) and adequate 
goodness of fit (HL χ2  = 11.384, 8 degrees of freedom, P = 0.183 for CRIB-II; 
HL χ2  = 4.319, 7 degrees of freedom, P = 0.742 for SNAPPE-II). The multivariate 
model did not reveal other significant variables.
CONCLUSIONS: Both severity of illness scores are ascertained during the first 
12 h of life and perform similarly. Both can facilitate risk-adjusted 
comparisons of mortality and quality of care after the first post-natal 12 h. 
CRIB-II scores have the advantage of being simpler to collect and calculate.

© 2014 The Authors. Journal of Paediatrics and Child Health © 2014 Paediatrics 
and Child Health Division (Royal Australasian College of Physicians).

DOI: 10.1111/jpc.12742
PMID: 25266790


478. Circulation. 2014 Sep 30;130(14):e124-6. doi:
10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.114.008556.

Cardiology patient page. Neurodevelopmental outcomes in congenital heart 
disease.

Rollins CK(1), Newburger JW(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Neurology (C.K.R.) and Cardiology (J.W.N.), Boston 
Children's Hospital, and the Departments of Neurology (C.K.R.) and Pediatrics 
(J.W.N.), Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA. 
caitlin.rollins@childrens.harvard.edu.
(2)From the Departments of Neurology (C.K.R.) and Cardiology (J.W.N.), Boston 
Children's Hospital, and the Departments of Neurology (C.K.R.) and Pediatrics 
(J.W.N.), Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA.

As improved treatments for congenital heart disease (CHD) have increased life 
expectancy, neurodevelopmental impairments have been observed in many survivors. 
These impairments include developmental delays, difficulty in school, and 
challenges living independently. Understanding the causes of these impairments 
and minimizing their impact are important goals to allow survivors to have the 
best possible quality of life.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCULATIONAHA.114.008556
PMCID: PMC6277140
PMID: 25266864 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest Disclosures None.


479. Clin Ther. 2014 Oct 1;36(10):1389-94.e4. doi:
10.1016/j.clinthera.2014.08.016.  Epub 2014 Sep 27.

Cost-utility analysis of oral anticoagulants for nonvalvular atrial fibrillation 
patients at the police general hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.

Jarungsuccess S(1), Taerakun S(2).

Author information:
(1)Pharmacy Department, Police General Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand.
(2)Pharmacy Department, Police General Hospital, Bangkok, Thailand. Electronic 
address: pitsanu.kung@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: The genetic polymorphism was one of the major considerations for 
adjusting doses of warfarin in Thai individuals. As a result, new oral 
anticoagulants (NOACs) were introduced to achieve therapeutic goals in stroke 
prevention in atrial fibrillation (SPAF) patients. However, a cost-utility 
analysis in a population-specific model was lacking in Thailand. This study was 
performed to determine which NOACs yielded population-specific, cost-effective 
results for SPAF compared with warfarin from both governmental and societal 
perspectives in Thailand.
METHODS: A simplified Markov health state model was constructed to calculate the 
lifetime cost, life-years saved, and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained. 
Asia-specific clinical event parameters were defined from systematic searches of 
PubMed. Cost and utility input was obtained from hospital based data collection.
FINDINGS: Although NOACs produced more life-years saved and QALYs gained 
resulting from the base-case versus warfarin, the lifetime costs of new 
alternatives increased to >1.4 times the comparative cost of warfarin. This 
caused an incremental cost-effective ratio that exceeded Thailand's 
cost-effectiveness threshold. The probabilistic sensitivity analysis denoted the 
robustness of our model and revealed that dose-adjusted warfarin was the most 
cost-effective option in >99% of iterations. NOACs produced cost-effective 
results when the medication unit cost was decreased by at least 85%.
IMPLICATIONS: According to the results of this first cost-utility analysis in 
Thailand, warfarin is still the most cost-effective medication for SPAF from any 
perspective in Thailand at the threshold recommended by our health technology 
assessment guidelines.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2014.08.016
PMID: 25267360 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


480. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 30;9(9):e108690. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108690. 
eCollection 2014.

Effects of home-based interval walking training on thigh muscle strength and 
aerobic capacity in female total hip arthroplasty patients: a randomized, 
controlled pilot study.

Morishima Y(1), Mizushima T(2), Yamauchi K(2), Morikawa M(3), Masuki S(4), Nose 
H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sports Medical Sciences, Shinshu University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Matsumoto, Japan; Department of Rehabilitation, Hamamatsu University 
School of Medicine, Hamamatsu, Japan.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation, Hamamatsu University School of Medicine, 
Hamamatsu, Japan.
(3)Department of Sports Medical Sciences, Shinshu University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Matsumoto, Japan; Jukunen Taiikudaigaku Research Center, Matsumoto, 
Japan.
(4)Department of Sports Medical Sciences, Shinshu University Graduate School of 
Medicine, Matsumoto, Japan.

Due to the reduced physical activity of patients who have undergone total hip 
arthroplasty (THA), there are no home-based exercise training regimens for 
preventing muscle atrophy and aerobic capacity impairment in these patients. We 
examined whether interval walking training (IWT) could prevented these issues. 
Twenty-eight female patients (∼60 years of age) who had undergone THA more than 
2 months prior were randomly divided into IWT (n = 14) and control (CNT, n = 14) 
groups. The IWT subjects trained at a target of 60 min of fast walking at >70% 
peak aerobic capacity for walking (VO₂peak) per wk for 12 wk, while those in the 
CNT maintained their previous sedentary life during the same period. We measured 
the energy expenditure of the daily physical activity, except during sleeping 
and bathing, every minute and every day during the intervention. We also 
measured the isometric knee extension (FEXT) and flexion (FFLX) forces, VO₂peak, 
and anaerobic threshold during the graded cycling exercise (VO₂AT) before and 
after the intervention. All subjects, except for one in IWT, completed the 
protocol. FFLX increased by 23% on the operated side (P = 0.003) and 14% on the 
non-operated side of IWT (P = 0.006), while it only increased on the operated 
side of CNT (P = 0.03). The VO₂peak and VO₂AT in IWT increased by 8% (P = 0.08) 
and 13% (P = 0.002), respectively, and these changes were significantly higher 
in the IWT than in CNT group (both, P<0.05). In conclusion, IWT might be an 
effective home-based training regimen for preventing the muscle atrophy from 
reduced daily physical activity in THA patients.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: UMIN-CTR UMIN000013172.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0108690
PMCID: PMC4182539
PMID: 25268505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.481. PLoS One. 2014 Sep 30;9(9):e109141. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0109141. 
eCollection 2014.

Clinical effectiveness of protein and amino acid supplementation on building 
muscle mass in elderly people: a meta-analysis.

Xu ZR(1), Tan ZJ(1), Zhang Q(1), Gui QF(1), Yang YM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Geriatrics, First Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory for Diagnosis and Treatment of Infectious Diseases, 
Department of Geriatrics, First Affiliated Hospital, School of Medicine, 
Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.

OBJECTIVE: A major reason for the loss of mobility in elderly people is the 
gradual loss of lean body mass known as sarcopenia. Sarcopenia is associated 
with a lower quality of life and higher healthcare costs. The benefit of 
strategies that include nutritional intervention, timing of intervention, and 
physical exercise to improve muscle loss unclear as finding from studies 
investigating this issue have been inconsistent. We have performed a systematic 
review and meta-analysis to assess the ability of protein or amino acid 
supplementation to augment lean body mass or strength of leg muscles in elderly 
patients.
METHODS: Nine studies met the inclusion criteria of being a prospective 
comparative study or randomized controlled trial (RCT) that compared the 
efficacy of an amino acid or protein supplement intervention with that of a 
placebo in elderly people (≥ 65 years) for the improvement of lean body mass 
(LBM), leg muscle strength or reduction associated with sarcopenia.
RESULTS: The overall difference in mean change from baseline to the end of study 
in LBM between the treatment and placebo groups was 0.34 kg which was not 
significant (P = 0.386). The overall differences in mean change from baseline in 
double leg press and leg extension were 2.14 kg (P = 0.748) and 2.28 kg (P = 
0.265), respectively, between the treatment group and the placebo group.
CONCLUSIONS: These results indicate that amino acid/protein supplements did not 
increase lean body mass gain and muscle strength significantly more than placebo 
in a diverse elderly population.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0109141
PMCID: PMC4182521
PMID: 25268791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


482. Prog Cardiovasc Dis. 2014 Nov-Dec;57(3):227-9. doi:
10.1016/j.pcad.2014.09.007.  Epub 2014 Sep 28.

Hispanics and cardiovascular health and the "Hispanic Paradox": what is known 
and what needs to be discovered?

Lopez-Jimenez F(1), Lavie CJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Cardiovascular Diseases, Rochester, MN 55905.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Diseases, John Ochsner Heart and Vascular 
Institute, Ochsner Clinic School, the University of Queensland School of 
Medicine, New Orleans, LA.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcad.2014.09.007
PMID: 25269065 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


483. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2014 Dec;14(6):805-13. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2014.957681. Epub 2014 Oct 1.

The cost-effectiveness of strategies in coronary artery disease.

Scudeler TL(1), Rezende PC, Hueb W.

Author information:
(1)Heart Institute (InCor) University of São Paulo, São Paulo 05403-000, Brazil.

Coronary artery disease has significant social and economic implications. Health 
expenditures have increased in recent decades, more than the economy itself, 
with significant consequences, either reducing spending in other areas or 
increasing the budget deficit. It is necessary to create tools to identify the 
most cost-effective treatments, which can assist clinicians in their therapeutic 
decisions so that the maximum possible benefit is reached with the lowest 
possible cost. Efficiency must be measured by final treatment goals in which the 
most effective interventions are those with the lowest costs. We analyzed the 
cost-effectiveness of coronary artery disease treatment strategies, medical 
treatment, percutaneous coronary intervention and coronary artery bypass 
surgery, with a focus on comparative analyses between these treatment 
modalities.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2014.957681
PMID: 25269456 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


484. BMC Health Serv Res. 2014 Sep 30;14:446. doi: 10.1186/1472-6963-14-446.

Quality of care and health status in Ukraine.

Peabody JW(1), Luck J, DeMaria L, Menon R.

Author information:
(1)QURE Healthcare, 1000 Fourth Street, Ste 300, San Rafael, CA 94901, USA. 
jpeabody@qurehealthcare.com.

BACKGROUND: We conducted a national level assessment of the quality of clinical 
care practice in the Ukrainian healthcare system for two important causes of 
death and chronic disease conditions. We tested two hypotheses: a) quality of 
care is predicted by physician and facility characteristics and b) health status 
is predicted by quality of care.
METHODS: During 2009-2010 in Ukraine, we collected nationally-representative 
data from clinical facilities, physicians, Clinical Performance and Value (CPV®) 
vignettes, patient surveys from the facilities, and from the general population. 
Each physician completed a written CPV® vignette-a simulated case scenario of a 
typical patient visit-for each of two clinical cases, congestive heart failure 
(CHF) and chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD). CPV® vignette scores, 
calculated as a percentage of all care criteria completed by the physician, were 
used as the measure of clinical quality of care. Self-reported health measures 
were collected from exit and household survey respondents. Regression models 
were developed to test the two study hypotheses.
RESULTS: 136 hospitals and 125 polyclinics were surveyed; 1,044 physicians were 
interviewed and completed CPV® vignettes. On average physicians scored 47.4% on 
the vignettes. Younger, female physicians provide a higher quality of care-as 
well as those that have had recent continuing medical education (CME) in chronic 
disease or health behaviors. Higher quality was associated with better health 
outcomes.
CONCLUSIONS: As low- and middle-income countries around the world are challenged 
by non-communicable diseases, higher quality of care provided to these 
populations may result in better outcomes, such as improved health status and 
life expectancy, and overcome regional shortfalls. Policy efforts that serially 
