typically describe excessive exposures in the remote past, yet excessive 
exposures can occur today, most likely related to careless asbestos abatement 
procedures. The intent is to address unanswered questions associated with 
asbestos exposure.
METHODS: The author summarizes clinical information addressing the case 
definition of asbestosis, the world-wide rate of mesothelioma, and clinical 
follow-up for those with exposure.
RESULTS: The author describes information relevant to issues which remain 
unresolved.
CONCLUSION: Perhaps somewhat surprisingly, even though there have been a great 
number of manuscripts reporting on the health risks of asbestos exposure, there 
remain unanswered questions regarding the pathogenesis of this disease.

DOI: 10.1097/JOM.0000000000000242
PMID: 25285978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


533. ACS Nano. 2014 Oct 28;8(10):10723-33. doi: 10.1021/nn5044383. Epub 2014 Oct
6.

Nanoscale adhesion forces of Pseudomonas aeruginosa type IV Pili.

Beaussart A(1), Baker AE, Kuchma SL, El-Kirat-Chatel S, O'Toole GA, Dufrêne YF.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Life Sciences, Université catholique de Louvain , Croix du Sud, 
1, bte L7.04.01., B-1348 Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium.

A variety of bacterial pathogens use nanoscale protein fibers called type IV 
pili to mediate cell adhesion, a primary step leading to infection. Currently, 
how these nanofibers respond to mechanical stimuli and how this response is used 
to control adhesion is poorly understood. Here, we use atomic force microscopy 
techniques to quantify the forces guiding the adhesion of Pseudomonas aeruginosa 
type IV pili to surfaces. Using chemical force microscopy and single-cell force 
spectroscopy, we show that pili strongly bind to hydrophobic surfaces in a 
time-dependent manner, while they weakly bind to hydrophilic surfaces. 
Individual nanofibers are capable of withstanding forces up to 250 pN, thereby 
explaining how they can resist mechanical stress. Pulling on individual pili 
yields constant force plateaus, presumably reflecting conformational changes, as 
well as nanospring properties that may help bacteria to withstand physiological 
shear forces. Analysis of mutant strains demonstrates that these mechanical 
responses originate solely from type IV pili, while flagella and the cell 
surface localized and proposed pili-associated adhesin PilY1 play no direct 
role. We also demonstrate that bacterial-host interactions involve constant 
force plateaus, the extension of bacterial pili, and the formation of membrane 
tethers from host cells. We postulate that the unique mechanical responses of 
type IV pili unravelled here enable the bacteria to firmly attach to biotic and 
abiotic surfaces and thus maintain attachment when subjected to high shear 
forces under physiological conditions, helping to explain why pili play a 
critical role in colonization of the host.

DOI: 10.1021/nn5044383
PMCID: PMC4212785
PMID: 25286300 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


534. Harefuah. 2014 Aug;153(8):453-7, 499, 498.

[Prenatal diagnosis of trisomy 13 and trisomy 18: the experience of Assaf-Harofe 
Medical Center].

[Article in Hebrew]

Naor Dovev M, Maymon R, Keidar R, Reish O, Melcer Y, Vaknin Z.

Erratum in
    Harefuah. 2014 Dec;153(12):751. Meltzer, Y [corrected to Melcer, Y].

INTRODUCTION: Trisomy 18 and 13 are the most common autosomal trisomies, after 
trisomy 21, and their frequency is rising due to the increased maternal age of 
pregnant women. The fetuses suffer from multi-organ damage that may lead to many 
gestational complications as well as short life expectancy.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the indications for prenatal karyotyping of trisomy 13 
(T-13, Patau syndrome) and trisomy 18 (T-18, Edwards syndrome) during pregnancy 
in our medical center.
METHODS: This retrospective cohort study involved all singleton pregnancies 
locally diagnosed or referred to our Institute because of T-13 and T-18, during 
the years 1998-2011.
RESULTS: There were 1879 cases of termination of pregnancies (TOPs) because of 
fetal indications, of them 53 cases of T-18 and 10 cases of T-13. The main 
indications for prenatal karyotyping in our study group were abnormal 
sonographic findings during anomaLy scans. In addition, 7 newborns with T-18 and 
3 infants with T-13 were born in our hospital during the same period of time. We 
examined all cases that led to the Live birth of newborns with chromosomal 
anomalies, stemming from the Lack of extraction of the tests mentioned above 
and/or ignoring findings that raise suspicion that requires performing prenatal 
karyotyping during pregnancy.
DISCUSSION: Our findings corresponded with other studies and showed that 
prenatal diagnosis of T-13/T-18 due to abnormal sonographic finding is rising.
CONCLUSIONS: Our study shows that it was possible to identify the vast majority 
of T-13/T-18 among the pregnant women who had an increased risk based on a 
combination of the routine screening tests applied in Israel.

PMID: 25286634 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


535. Stress. 2015 Jan;18(1):57-66. doi: 10.3109/10253890.2014.974030. Epub 2014
Dec  29.

Impact of a mindfulness stress management program on stress, anxiety, depression 
and quality of life in women with polycystic ovary syndrome: a randomized 
controlled trial.

Stefanaki C(1), Bacopoulou F, Livadas S, Kandaraki A, Karachalios A, Chrousos 
GP, Diamanti-Kandarakis E.

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology, Metabolism and Diabetes, Evgenideion Hospital, 
Athens University Medical School , Athens , Greece .

Polycystic ovary syndrome (PCOS) is a common endocrine disorder with a 
significant psychological burden throughout the life course of affected women. 
Thus, use of mindful awareness may be beneficial as an adjunct to conventional 
medical management of women with PCOS. A randomized, controlled trial was 
conducted at the Evgenideion Hospital of the Athens University Medical School to 
explore the impact of an 8-week mindfulness stress management program on 
measures of depression, anxiety and stress as well as on the quality of life in 
reproductive age women with PCOS. The study was approved by the Research Ethics 
Committee. Twenty-three and 15 women with PCOS were randomly allocated to the 
intervention or control group, respectively. All participants were administered 
DASS21, PSS-14, PCOSQ, Daily Life and General Life Satisfaction Questionnaires 
and provided three-timed daily samples of salivary cortisol, before and after 
the intervention. Intervention group participants were provided with the 
Credibility/Expectancy Questionnaire at the day of enrolment, to check for 
possible placebo effect on the outcome. Post-intervention, between-group results 
revealed statistically significant reductions in stress, depressive and anxiety 
symptoms, as well as in salivary cortisol concentrations, along with an increase 
in Life Satisfaction and Quality of Life scores in the intervention group only. 
There was no significant "placebo" effect on the outcome measures. Mindfulness 
techniques seem promising in ameliorating stress, anxiety, depression and the 
quality of life in women with PCOS and could be used as an adjunct method to the 
conventional management of these women.

DOI: 10.3109/10253890.2014.974030
PMID: 25287137 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


536. J Clin Oncol. 2014 Nov 1;32(31):3513-9. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2013.54.9931. Epub
2014  Oct 6.

Cost effectiveness of molecular profiling for adjuvant decision making in 
patients with node-negative breast cancer.

Bonastre J(1), Marguet S(2), Lueza B(2), Michiels S(2), Delaloge S(2), 
Saghatchian M(2).

Author information:
(1)All authors: Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France. 
julia.bonastre@gustaveroussy.fr.
(2)All authors: Gustave Roussy, Villejuif, France.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2015 May 10;33(14):1626-7.
    J Clin Oncol. 2015 May 10;33(14):1629-30.
    J Clin Oncol. 2015 May 10;33(14):1628-9.
    J Clin Oncol. 2015 May 10;33(14):1627.

PURPOSE: To conduct an economic evaluation of the 70-gene signature used to 
guide adjuvant chemotherapy decision making both in patients with node-negative 
breast cancer (NNBC) and in the subgroup of estrogen receptor (ER) -positive 
patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: We used a mixed approach combining patient-level data from 
a multicenter validation study of the 70-gene signature (untreated patients) and 
secondary sources for chemotherapy efficacy, unit costs, and utility values. 
Three strategies on which to base the decision to administer adjuvant 
chemotherapy were compared: the 70-gene signature, Adjuvant! Online, and 
chemotherapy in all patients. In the base-case analysis, costs from the French 
National Insurance Scheme, life-years (LYs), and quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs) were computed for the three strategies over a 10-year period. 
Cost-effectiveness acceptability curves using the net monetary benefit were 
computed, combining bootstrap and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The mean differences in LYs and QALYs were similar between the three 
strategies. The 70-gene signature strategy was associated with a higher cost, 
with a mean difference of €2,037 (range, €1,472 to €2,515) compared with 
Adjuvant! Online and of €657 (95% CI, -€642 to €3,130) compared with systematic 
chemotherapy. For a €50,000 per QALY willingness-to-pay threshold, the 
probability of being the most cost-effective strategy was 92% (76% in 
ER-positive patients) for the Adjuvant! Online strategy, 6% (4% in ER-positive 
patients) for the systematic chemotherapy strategy, and 2% (20% in ER-positive 
patients) for the 70-gene strategy.
CONCLUSION: Optimizing adjuvant chemotherapy decision making based on the 
70-gene signature is unlikely to be cost effective in patients with NNBC.

© 2014 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2013.54.9931
PMID: 25287824 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


537. Health Aff (Millwood). 2014 Oct;33(10):1751-60. doi:
10.1377/hlthaff.2014.0574.

Despite high costs, specialty drugs may offer value for money comparable to that 
of traditional drugs.

Chambers JD(1), Thorat T(2), Pyo J(3), Chenoweth M(4), Neumann PJ(5).

Author information:
(1)James D. Chambers (jchambers@tuftsmedicalcenter.org) is an investigator at 
the Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for 
Clinical Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, and an 
assistant professor of medicine in the School of Medicine, Tufts University, in 
Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Teja Thorat is a research associate at the Center for the Evaluation of Value 
and Risk in Health, Tufts Medical Center.
(3)Junhee Pyo was a research associate at the Center for the Evaluation of Value 
and Risk in Health, Tufts Medical Center, when she worked on this article. She 
is currently preparing to enroll in a Ph.D. program to earn a doctorate in 
health economics.
(4)Matthew Chenoweth is a research associate at the Center for the Evaluation of 
Value and Risk in Health, Tufts Medical Center.
(5)Peter J. Neumann is director of the Center for the Evaluation of Value and 
Risk in Health, Tufts Medical Center, and a professor of medicine in the School 
of Medicine at Tufts University.

Specialty drugs are often many times more expensive than traditional drugs, 
which raises questions of affordability and value. We compared the value of 
specialty and traditional drugs approved by the Food and Drug Administration 
(FDA) in the period 1999-2011. To do this, we identified published estimates of 
additional health gains (measured in quality-adjusted life-years, or QALYs) and 
increased costs of drug and health care resource use that were associated with 
fifty-eight specialty drugs and forty-four traditional drugs, compared to 
preexisting care. We found that specialty drugs offered greater QALY gains 
(0.183 versus 0.002 QALYs) but were associated with greater additional costs 
($12,238 versus $784), compared to traditional drugs. The two types of drugs had 
comparable cost-effectiveness. However, the distributions across the two types 
differed, with 26 percent of specialty drugs--but only 9 percent of traditional 
drugs--associated with incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of greater than 
$150,000 per QALY. Our study suggests that although specialty drugs often have 
higher costs than traditional drugs, they also tend to confer greater benefits 
and hence may still offer reasonable value for money.

Project HOPE—The People-to-People Health Foundation, Inc.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2014.0574
PMID: 25288419 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


538. Clin Nutr. 2015 Oct;34(5):825-37. doi: 10.1016/j.clnu.2014.09.010. Epub 2014
Sep  27.

A systematic review with meta-analysis of survival, quality of life and 
cost-effectiveness of home parenteral nutrition in patients with inoperable 
malignant bowel obstruction.

Naghibi M(1), Smith TR(2), Elia M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital Southampton, Southampton, 
UK; National Institute of Health Research Biomedical Research Centre 
(Nutrition), Southampton, UK; Faculty of Medicine, University Hospital 
Southampton NHS Foundation Trust, Southampton, England, UK. Electronic address: 
m.naghibi@nhs.net.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, University Hospital Southampton, Southampton, 
UK.
(3)National Institute of Health Research Biomedical Research Centre (Nutrition), 
Southampton, UK; Faculty of Medicine, University Hospital Southampton NHS 
Foundation Trust, Southampton, England, UK.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Inoperable bowel obstruction is the most common and 
judicious indication for long term parenteral nutrition in patients with 
palliative malignancy. Considerable uncertainty exists about the survival 
length, quality of life (QOL) and associated health economics of home parenteral 
nutrition (HPN) for this patient group.
METHODS: A systematic review was carried out for survival length and QOL of 
adult patients treated with HPN due to malignancy causing inoperable bowel 
obstruction in the palliative phase. Whenever possible, individual patient data 
were extracted to allow meta-analyses. Health economic evaluation was undertaken 
to calculate cost and incremental cost effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Twelve studies involving 437 patients, met the inclusion criteria. 
Meta-analyses of extracted survival length data, representing the largest 
published cohort of HPN patients with palliative malignancy and inoperable bowel 
obstruction (n = 244 patients), revealed a mean survival of 116 days, median 83 
days, with 45% and 24% still alive at 3 and 6 months, and only 2% survival at 
one year. Limited evidence suggests QOL deteriorated before death in a highly 
symptomatic group. The ICER is £176,587 per quality adjusted life year.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first health economic evaluation and systematic review 
of survival and QOL for patients with inoperable bowel obstruction receiving HPN 
during the palliative phase of malignancy. Meta-analyses reveal a short survival 
and health economic analysis demonstrates high associated costs. This 
information can be used by clinicians to inform and guide selection of patients 
in this cohort for HPN treatment.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd and European Society for Clinical Nutrition and 
Metabolism. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clnu.2014.09.010
PMID: 25288565 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


539. Plant Pathol J. 2013 Jun;29(2):209-20. doi: 10.5423/PPJ.SI.07.2012.0103.

Transcriptome Analysis of Induced Systemic Drought Tolerance Elicited by 
Pseudomonas chlororaphis O6 in Arabidopsis thaliana.

Cho SM(1), Kang BR(2), Kim YC(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Floriculture, Chunnam Techno University, Jeonnam 516-911, 
Korea.
(2)Environment-Friendly Agricultural Research Institute, Jeollanamdo 
Agricultural Research and Extension Services, Naju 520-715, Korea.
(3)Institute of Environmentally-Friendly Agriculture, College of Agriculture and 
Life Sciences, Chonnam National University, Gwangju 500-757, Korea.

Root colonization by Pseudomonas chlororaphis O6 induces systemic drought 
tolerance in Arabidopsis thaliana. Microarray analysis was performed using the 
22,800-gene Affymetrix GeneChips to identify differentially-expressed genes from 
plants colonized with or without P. chlororaphis O6 under drought stressed 
conditions or normal growth conditions. Root colonization in plants grown under 
regular irrigation condition increased transcript accumulation from genes 
associated with defense, response to reactive oxygen species, and auxin- and 
jasmonic acid-responsive genes, but decreased transcription factors associated 
with ethylene and abscisic acid signaling. The cluster of genes involved in 
plant disease resistance were up-regulated, but the set of drought signaling 
response genes were down-regulated in the P. chlororaphis O6-colonized under 
drought stress plants compared to those of the drought stressed plants without 
bacterial treatment. Transcripts of the jasmonic acid-marker genes, VSP1 and 
pdf-1.2, the salicylic acid regulated gene, PR-1, and the ethylene-response 
gene, HEL, also were up-regulated in plants colonized by P. chlororaphis O6, but 
differed in their responsiveness to drought stress. These data show how gene 
expression in plants lacking adequate water can be remarkably influenced by 
microbial colonization leading to plant protection, and the activation of the 
plant defense signal pathway induced by root colonization of P. chlororaphis O6 
might be a key element for induced systemic tolerance by microbes.

DOI: 10.5423/PPJ.SI.07.2012.0103
PMCID: PMC4174771
PMID: 25288948


540. PeerJ. 2014 Oct 2;2:e615. doi: 10.7717/peerj.615. eCollection 2014.

Computed tomography analysis of guinea pig bone: architecture, bone thickness 
and dimensions throughout development.

Witkowska A(1), Alibhai A(1), Hughes C(1), Price J(1), Klisch K(1), Sturrock 
CJ(2), Rutland CS(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Veterinary Medicine and Science, University of Nottingham , Sutton 
Bonington, Leicestershire , UK.
(2)School of Biosciences, University of Nottingham , Sutton Bonington, 
Leicestershire , UK.

The domestic guinea pig, Cavia aperea f. porcellus, belongs to the Caviidae 
family of rodents. It is an important species as a pet, a source of food and in 
medical research. Adult weight is achieved at 8-12 months and life expectancy is 
∼5-6 years. Our aim was to map bone local thickness, structure and dimensions 
across developmental stages in the normal animal. Guinea pigs (n = 23) that had 
died of natural causes were collected and the bones manually extracted and 
cleaned. Institutional ethical permission was given under the UK Home Office 
guidelines and the Veterinary Surgeons Act. X-ray Micro Computed Tomography 
(microCT) was undertaken on the left and right scapula, humerus and femur from 
each animal to ascertain bone local thickness. Images were also used to 
undertake manual and automated bone measurements, volumes and surface areas, 
identify and describe nutrient, supratrochlear and supracondylar foramina. 
Statistical analysis between groups was carried out using ANOVA with post-hoc 
testing. Our data mapped a number of dimensions, and mean and maximum bone 
thickness of the scapula, humerus and femur in guinea pigs aged 0-1 month, 1-3 
months, 3-6 months, 6 months-1 year and 1-4 years. Bone dimensions, growth rates 
and local bone thicknesses differed between ages and between the scapula, 
humerus and femur. The microCT and imaging software technology showed very 
distinct differences between the relative local bone thickness across the 
structure of the bones. Only one bone showed a singular nutrient foramen, every 
other bone had between 2 and 5, and every nutrient canal ran in an oblique 
direction. In contrast to other species, a supratrochlear foramen was observed 
in every humerus whereas the supracondylar foramen was always absent. Our data 
showed the bone local thickness, bone structure and measurements of guinea pig 
bones from birth to 4 years old. Importantly it showed that bone development 
continued after 1 year, the point at which most guinea pigs have reached full 
weight. This study is the first to show the high abundance (100% in this study) 
of the supratrochlear foramen within the guinea pig humerus and the complete 
absence of a supracondylar foramen, which is different to many other species and 
may also affect potential fracture points and frequencies. Understanding bone 
morphology and growth is essential in not only understanding the requirements of 
the healthy guinea pig, but also necessary in order to investigate disease 
states.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.615
PMCID: PMC4185290
PMID: 25289194541. Plast Reconstr Surg Glob Open. 2013 Nov 7;1(7):e61. doi: 
10.1097/GOX.0000000000000004. eCollection 2013 Oct.

Objective integrated assessment of functional outcomes in reduction mammaplasty.

Nicoletti G(1), Passaro I(1), Malovini A(1), Faga A(1), Toffola ED(1).

Author information:
(1)Plastic Surgery Unit, University of Pavia, Salvatore Maugeri Research and 
Care Institute, Pavia, Italy; Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation Unit, 
University of Pavia, San Matteo Research and Care Institute, Pavia, Italy; and 
Department of Computer Engineering and Systems Science, University of Pavia, 
Salvatore Maugeri Research and Care Institute, Pavia, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The aim of our study was an objective integrated assessment of the 
functional outcomes of reduction mammaplasty.
METHODS: The study involved 17 women undergoing reduction mammaplasty from March 
2009 to June 2011. Each patient was assessed before surgery and 2 months 
postoperatively with the original association of 4 subjective and objective 
assessment methods: a physiatric clinical examination, the Roland Morris 
Disability Questionnaire, the Berg Balance Scale, and a static force platform 
analysis.
RESULTS: All of the tests proved multiple statistically significant associated 
outcomes demonstrating a significant improvement in the functional status 
following reduction mammaplasty. Surgical correction of breast hypertrophy could 
achieve both spinal pain relief and recovery of performance status in everyday 
life tasks, owing to a muscular postural functional rearrangement with a 
consistent antigravity muscle activity sparing. Pain reduction in turn could 
reduce the antalgic stiffness and improved the spinal range of motion. In our 
sample, the improvement of the spinal range of motion in flexion matched a 
similar improvement in extension. Recovery of a more favorable postural pattern 
with reduction of the anterior imbalance was demonstrated by the static force 
stabilometry. Therefore, postoperatively, all of our patients narrowed the gap 
between the actual body barycenter and the ideal one. The static force platform 
assessment also consistently confirmed the effectiveness of an accurate clinical 
examination of functional impairment from breast hypertrophy.
CONCLUSIONS: The static force platform assessment might help the clinician to 
support the diagnosis of functional impairment from a breast hypertrophy with 
objectively based data.

DOI: 10.1097/GOX.0000000000000004
PMCID: PMC4174063
PMID: 25289256

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure: The authors have no financial 
interest to declare in relation to the content of this article. The Article 
Processing Charge was paid for by the authors.


542. Ugeskr Laeger. 2014 Sep 8;176(37):V01140053.

[Duodenal-jejunal bypass sleeve - a potential alternative to bariatric 
surgery?].

[Article in Danish]

Rohde U, Gylvin S, Vilmann P, Friis SU, Langholz E, Vilsbøll T, Knop FK(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Diabetesforskning, Medicinsk -Afdeling F, Gentofte Hospital, Niels 
Andersens Vej 65, 2900 Hellerup. E-mail: filipknop@dadlnet.dk.

Overweight and obesity are risk factors for several co-morbidities reducing life 
expectancy. Conservative treatment of obesity is generally ineffective in the 
long-term. Bariatric surgery has proven effective, but is associated with 
potential complications. Duodenal-jejunal bypass sleeve is a novel minimal 
invasive and fully reversible endoscopic treatment modality approved for 
treatment of obesity with or without concomitant type 2 diabetes. Here we review 
present data for the efficacy and safety of this treatment modality.

PMID: 25294038 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


543. Ugeskr Laeger. 2014 Sep 22;176(39):V01140021.

[Two cases of severe variceal haemorrhage from an ileal conduit].

[Article in Danish]

Lunden D(1), Poulsen J, Kloster BO.

Author information:
(1)Ny Kastetvej 30, st., lejl. 3, 9000 Aalborg. E-mail: 
dagmar_lunden@hotmail.com.

Variceal haemorrhage from an ileal conduit is a rare but well-known complication 
to portal hypertension. Many treatments are described and a transjugular 
intrahepatic portosystemic shunt (TIPS) is the treatment of choice if possible, 
because this addresses the underlying portal hypertension. We report two cases 
of haemorrhage from an ileal conduit, which illustrates that treatment must be 
individualized with attention to life expectancy, co-morbidities and degree of 
the portosystemic pressure gradient, but TIPS treatment has to be considered 
even if there is no history of liver disease.

PMID: 25294334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


544. Obesity (Silver Spring). 2015 Jan;23(1):213-9. doi: 10.1002/oby.20913. Epub
2014  Oct 8.

Coming unmoored: disproportionate increases in obesity prevalence among young, 
disadvantaged white women.

Robinson WR(1), Kershaw KN, Mezuk B, Rafferty J, Lee H, Johnson-Lawrence V, 
Seamans MJ, Jackson JS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina, USA; Carolina Population Center, University of North Carolina, Chapel 
Hill, North Carolina, USA.

OBJECTIVES: Since the 1980s, older, low-educated White women experienced an 
unprecedented decrease in life expectancy. We investigated whether a similar 
phenomenon was evident among younger women for obesity.
METHODS: Using the National Health and Nutrition Examination Survey, 
age-adjusted changes were estimated in the prevalence of overall and abdominal 
obesity (BMI ≥ 30 kg/m(2) , waist circumference > 88 cm) between 1988-1994 and 
2003-2010 among non-Hispanic White women aged 25-44 years, stratified by 
educational attainment (<high school (HS), HS, some college, college degree). To 
address bias from secular increases in educational attainment, White women's 
changes in obesity prevalence were compared to changes among similarly educated 
Black women.
RESULTS: Relative increases in overall obesity were disproportionately larger 
for low-educated (<HS) compared to college-educated White women: 12.3 (95% CI: 
3.1, 21.5) percentage points (ppts). For overall and abdominal obesity, general 
trends indicated dissimilar racial differences by educational attainment. For 
instance, overall obesity increased more in Blacks than Whites among 
college-educated (9.9 ppts) but not low-educated (-2.5 ppts) women.
CONCLUSIONS: Contemporary young, low-educated White women showed indications of 
disproportionate worsening of overall obesity prevalence compared to more 
educated White and similarly educated Black women. Low education levels are more 
powerful indicators of obesity risk among contemporary White women than 30 years 
ago.

© 2014 The Obesity Society.

DOI: 10.1002/oby.20913
PMCID: PMC4276490
PMID: 25294582 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


545. Support Care Cancer. 2015 Apr;23(4):1091-7. doi: 10.1007/s00520-014-2439-1.
Epub  2014 Oct 8.

Effect of endurance for adverse drug reactions on the preference for aggressive 
treatments in cancer patients.

Iihara N(1), Nishio T, Goda T, Anzai H, Kagawa M, Houchi H, Kirino Y.

Author information:
(1)Kagawa School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Tokushima Bunri University, 1314-1 
Shido, Sanuki, Kagawa, 769-2193, Japan, iiharan@kph.bunri-u.ac.jp.

PURPOSE: Cancer patients receiving chemotherapy will sometimes conceal their 
discomfort, but an excessive endurance for adverse drug reactions (ADRs) can 
lead to a poorer prognosis. The aim of this study was to clarify the association 
between ADR endurance and a preference of cancer patients for aggressive 
treatments.
METHODS: A cross-sectional study was undertaken of inpatients under 75 years of 
age receiving injectable systemic chemotherapy or oral chronic medications at 
hospitals in Japan. Subjects were asked to respond to a validated questionnaire 
to assess the extent of their ADR endurance and whether they would choose a 
novel, more aggressive therapy if their life expectancy was estimated at 2 
years.
RESULTS: Study participants were separated into the chemotherapy group (n = 36) 
and the non-chemotherapy group (n = 78). In the chemotherapy group, patients who 
had moderate ADR endurance scores were more likely to choose the new therapy 
(0-33, 34-67, and 68-100 points: 0.0, 54.5, and 27.3 %; χ (2) test, p = 0.15). 
Additionally, every patient on long-term chemotherapy (≥3 years) had high ADR 
endurance scores but did not choose the new, riskier treatment. In the 
non-chemotherapy group, the proportion of those choosing the new therapy was 
linearly associated with higher ADR endurance scores (25.9, 38.2, and 64.7 %; 
p = 0.04).
CONCLUSION: Cancer patients may prefer aggressive therapies, even when 
self-estimations of ADR endurance are not very high, especially if they have 
been receiving chemotherapy for a short period of time. These patients should be 
observed with great caution.

DOI: 10.1007/s00520-014-2439-1
PMID: 25294657 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


546. Vnitr Lek. 2014 Sep;60(9):765-71.

[Life expectancy of people with type 1 diabetes in the past and today].

[Article in Czech]

Rušavý Z, Lacigová S.

The life expectancy of Type 1 diabetes mellitus (T1DM) dramatically improved 
after the discovery of insulin in 1922, but was still 25 years shorter than that 
of non-diabetic population. Some people with T1DM, however, lived to the same 
age as a non-diabetic population and had no late complications of diabetes. They 
began to be awarded medals in appreciation of their long life with diabetes. 
They also became the subject of a research examining why they lived so long and 
what was the difference between them and those patients with T1DM, whose lives 
were much shorter. The paper deals with the differences observed in the 
´medallists´ and discusses various hypotheses that might account for them. It 
seems that reliable control of diabetes within the first 20 years following the 
diagnosis is very important, in relation to the existence of "glycemic memory" 
which may significantly affect life expectancy in the following years. Human 
lifespan in general has been linearly extended since the early 19th century and 
the same holds for lifespans of people with T1DM. This is due to the higher 
quality control of glycemia on the one hand, and a better prevention and 
treatment of complications. It is observed that the incidence of terminal stages 
of diabetic nephropathy has been dropping, the primary as well as secondary 
prevention of cardiovascular complications, cardiological treatment and heart 
surgery have been improving. Manifest proteinuria, diabetic neuropathy and 
hypertension appear to be major prognostic factors of increased mortality. If 
these indicators are not present, the life expectancy of patients with T1DM does 
not significantly differ from that of the non-diabetic population.Key words: 
diabetic nephropathy - glycemia - glycemic memory - ICHS - late complications of 
diabetes - mortality - prognosis - type1 diabetes mellitus.

PMID: 25294766


547. Interact Cardiovasc Thorac Surg. 2015 Jan;20(1):143-5. doi: 
10.1093/icvts/ivu325. Epub 2014 Oct 7.

Left ventricular external buttress technique for repair of ventricular septal 
perforation†.

Hayashi I(1), Kasahara H(2), Abe K(2), Haijima N(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, National Hospital Organization Saitama 
National Hospital, Wako City, Saitama, Japan hyshhime@me.point.ne.jp.
(2)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, National Hospital Organization Saitama 
National Hospital, Wako City, Saitama, Japan.

Because of the difficulty in placing a suture-supporting extension to a 
non-infarcted area, ventricular septal perforation repair in the presence of 
large myocardial infarctions can give rise to life-threatening tears or ruptures 
of the left ventricular free wall. We report a case of successful reinforcement 
of an infarction area from outside of the left ventricle using a large, thick 
polytetrafluoroethylene felt patch. After surgery, the patient was weaned from 
cardiopulmonary bypass without difficulty. Postoperative echocardiography 
revealed no residual shunting and he was alive without complications 3 years 
after surgery.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Association for Cardio-Thoracic Surgery. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/icvts/ivu325
PMID: 25294774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


548. ScientificWorldJournal. 2014;2014:492387. doi: 10.1155/2014/492387. Epub
2014  Sep 8.

Robust framework to combine diverse classifiers assigning distributed confidence 
to individual classifiers at class level.

Khalid S(1), Arshad S(1), Jabbar S(2), Rho S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Computer Engineering, Bahria University, Islamabad 44000, 
Pakistan.
(2)Department of Computer Science, COMSATS Institute of Information Technology, 
Sahiwal, Pakistan ; Department of Computer Science, Bahria University, Islamabad 
44000, Pakistan.
(3)Department of Multimedia, Sungkyul University, Anyang-si, Republic of Korea.

We have presented a classification framework that combines multiple 
heterogeneous classifiers in the presence of class label noise. An extension of 
m-Mediods based modeling is presented that generates model of various classes 
whilst identifying and filtering noisy training data. This noise free data is 
further used to learn model for other classifiers such as GMM and SVM. A weight 
learning method is then introduced to learn weights on each class for different 
classifiers to construct an ensemble. For this purpose, we applied genetic 
algorithm to search for an optimal weight vector on which classifier ensemble is 
expected to give the best accuracy. The proposed approach is evaluated on 
variety of real life datasets. It is also compared with existing standard 
ensemble techniques such as Adaboost, Bagging, and Random Subspace Methods. 
Experimental results show the superiority of proposed ensemble method as 
compared to its competitors, especially in the presence of class label noise and 
imbalance classes.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/492387
PMCID: PMC4177094
PMID: 25295302 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


549. Rev Bras Ter Intensiva. 2014 Jul-Sep;26(3):253-62. doi: 
10.5935/0103-507x.20140036.

The economic effect of extracorporeal membrane oxygenation to support adults 
with severe respiratory failure in Brazil: a hypothetical analysis.

Park M(1), Mendes PV(1), Zampieri FG(1), Azevedo LC(1), Costa EL(2), Antoniali 
F(3), Ribeiro GC(3), Caneo LF(1), da Cruz Neto LM(1), Carvalho CR(4), Trindade 
EM(4); ERICC research group; ECMO group Hospital Sírio Libanês and Hospital das 
Clínicas de São Paulo.

Collaborators: Hirota AS, Maciel AT, Carvalho CR, Machtans CC, Costa EL, Barbosa 
EV, da Silva EM, Schettino GP, Taniguchi LU, Azevedo LC, Amato MB, Park M, Tucci 
M, de Nardi Ignácio M, Mendes PV, Nardi RO, Romano TG, Alves Neves W, Colombo 
AS, Cavalcanti AB, de Carvalho AG, Réa-Neto Á, Martinez A, de Oliveira AM, 
Japiassu A, Nunes AL, Torelly AP, Nogueira AC, Pereira AJ, Junior AP, Martins 
Bdo C, Caser B, Gomes BC, Mazza BF, Barboza CE, Righy C, Teixeira C, Eliana CP, 
Moreira CL, Ritter C, Damiani CT, Amendola CP, de Souza Barros D, Aragão D, 
Ribeiro Dda C, Cristovao D, Mannarino D, Dalcomune DM, Moraes E, Ferreira E, 
Silva E, Lopes EA, Rego Ê, Suzumura ÉA, Pacheco ED, Giannini FP, Dal-Pizzol F, 
Saddy F, Fernandes FE, Rodriguez FB, Machado FR, Soriano F, Carvalho FB, 
Schettino G, de Oliveira GA, de Melo HK, Salluh J, Neto JA, dos Anjos JC, 
Maccari JG, Fernandes JB, Ferreira JC, de Almeida JP, Meira KL, de Assis Simões 
L, Nunes LB, Tanaka L, Leal L, Reis LM, Gondim LA, Tannous L, Oliveira L, 
Sanches LC, Azevedo LC, Hajjar L, Malbouisson LM, Osório LA, Neto ML, de 
Oliveira Maia M, Lugarinho ME, Romano ML, Park M, Soares M, Knibel MF, Tavares 
ME, Kehdi MG, Ponte M, de Oliveira MC, Assunção MS, Gusman PB, Schwarz P, Berto 
P, Luciano PM, Tierno PF, Caruso P, de Azambuja Rodrigues PM, Varaschin P, 
Abelha P, Castro PS, Morsch RD, Campos RS, Costa RT, Nóbrega RS, Carbonell RC, 
Espinoza R, dos Santos RB, Almeida RD, de Oliveira RP, Alves RA, Filho RC, 
Moulin S, Silva SA, Castellões TF, Lisboa T, Silva UV, Rezende VM, de Souza 
Dantas VC.

Author information:
(1)Faculdade de Medicina, Hospital das Clínicas, Universidade de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, SP, Brasil.
(2)Unidade de Terapia Intensiva, Hospital Sírio Libanês, São Paulo, SP, Brasil.
(3)Pontifícia Universidade Católica de Campinas, Campinas, SP, Brasil.
(4)Hospital das Clínicas, Faculdade de Medicina, Universidade de São Paulo, São 
Paulo, SP, Brasil.

Comment in
    Rev Bras Ter Intensiva. 2015 Jan-Mar;27(1):86-8.
    Rev Bras Ter Intensiva. 2015 Jan-Mar;27(1):85-6.

OBJECTIVE: To analyze the cost-utility of using extracorporeal oxygenation for 
patients with severe acute respiratory distress syndrome in Brazil.
METHODS: A decision tree was constructed using databases from previously 
published studies. Costs were taken from the average price paid by the Brazilian 
Unified Health System (Sistema Único de Saúde; SUS) over three months in 2011. 
Using the data of 10,000,000 simulated patients with predetermined outcomes and 
costs, an analysis was performed of the ratio between cost increase and years of 
life gained, adjusted for quality (cost-utility), with survival rates of 40 and 
60% for patients using extracorporeal membrane oxygenation.
RESULTS: The decision tree resulted in 16 outcomes with different life support 
techniques. With survival rates of 40 and 60%, respectively, the increased costs 
were R$=-301.00/-14.00, with a cost of R$=-30,913.00/-1,752.00 paid per 
six-month quality-adjusted life-year gained and R$=-2,386.00/-90.00 per 
quality-adjusted life-year gained until the end of life, when all patients with 
severe ARDS were analyzed. Analyzing only patients with severe hypoxemia (i.e., 
a ratio of partial oxygen pressure in the blood to the fraction of inspired 
oxygen <100 mmHg), the increased cost was R$=-5,714.00/272.00, with a cost per 
six-month quality-adjusted life-year gained of R$=-9,521.00/293.00 and a cost of 
R$=-280.00/7.00 per quality-adjusted life-year gained.
CONCLUSION: The cost-utility ratio associated with the use of extracorporeal 
membrane oxygenation in Brazil is potentially acceptable according to this 
hypothetical study.

OBJETIVO: Analisar o custo-utilidade do uso da oxigenação extracorpórea para 
pacientes com síndrome da angústia respiratória aguda grave no Brasil.
MÉTODOS: Com bancos de dados de estudos previamente publicados, foi construída 
uma árvore encadeada de decisões. Os custos foram extraídos da média de 3 meses 
do preço pago pelo Sistema Único de Saúde em 2011. Com 10 milhões de pacientes 
simulados com desfechos e custos predeterminados, uma análise da relação de 
incremento de custo e de anos de vida ganhos ajustados pela qualidade 
(custo-utilidade) foi realizada com sobrevida de 40 e 60% dos pacientes que 
usaram oxigenação extracorpórea.
RESULTADOS: A árvore de decisões resultou em 16 desfechos com técnicas 
diferentes de suporte à vida. Com a sobrevida de 40/60%, respectivamente, o 
incremento de custos foi de R$ -301,00/-14,00, com o preço pago de R$ 
-30.913,00/-1.752,00 por ano de vida ganho ajustado pela qualidade para 6 meses 
e de R$ -2.386,00/-90,00 por ano de vida ganho ajustado pela qualidade até o fim 
de vida, quando se analisaram todos os pacientes com síndrome da angústia 
respiratória aguda grave. Analisando somente os pacientes com hipoxemia grave 
(relação da pressão parcial de oxigênio no sangue sobre a fração inspirada de 
oxigênio <100mmHg), o incremento de custos foi de R$ -5.714,00/272,00, com preço 
por ano de vida ganho ajustado pela qualidade em 6 meses de R$ -9.521,00/293,00, 
e com o custo de R$ -280,00/7,00 por ano de vida ganho ajustado pela qualidade.
CONCLUSÃO: A relação de custo-utilidade do uso da oxigenação extracorpórea no 
Brasil foi potencialmente aceitável neste estudo hipotético.

DOI: 10.5935/0103-507x.20140036
PMCID: PMC4188461
PMID: 25295819 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of interest: The ECMO group of the 
Hospital Sírio Libanês and Hospital das Clínicas de São Paulo received a grant 
from MAQUET Cardiovascular (PLS systems) of Brazil in 2010 for equipment and 
patient support. M Park, LCP Azevedo, ELV Costa, LF Caneo and CRR Carvalho 
taught courses on respiratory distress that were funded by MAQUET Cardiovascular 
of Brazil and NIPRO of Brazil.


550. J Agric Food Chem. 2014 Nov 5;62(44):10701-7. doi: 10.1021/jf503192x. Epub
2014  Oct 22.

Antioxidant activity, delayed aging, and reduced amyloid-β toxicity of methanol 
extracts of tea seed pomace from Camellia tenuifolia.

Wei CC(1), Yu CW, Yen PL, Lin HY, Chang ST, Hsu FL, Liao VH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Bioenvironmental Systems Engineering and ‡Department of 
Forestry and Resource Conservation, National Taiwan University , No. 1, Sec. 4, 
Roosevelt Road, Taipei 106, Taiwan.

There is a growing interest in the exploitation of the residues generated by 
plants. This study explored the potential beneficial health effects from the 
main biowaste, tea seed pomace, produced when tea seed is processed. DPPH 
radical scavenging and total phenolic content assays were performed to evaluate 
the in vitro activities of the extracts. Caenorhabditis elegans was used as in 
vivo model to evaluate the beneficial health effects, including antioxidant 
activity, delayed aging, and reduced amyloid-β toxicity. Among all soluble 
fractions obtained from the extracts of tea seed pomace from Camellia 
tenuifolia, the methanol (MeOH)-soluble fraction has the best in vivo 
antioxidant activities. The MeOH-soluble extraction was further divided into six 
fractions by chromatography with a Diaion HP-20 column eluted with water/MeOH, 
and fraction 3 showed the best in vitro and in vivo antioxidant activities. 
Further analysis in C. elegans showed that the MeOH extract (fraction 3) of tea 
seed pomace significantly decreased intracellular reactive oxygen species, 
prolonged C. elegans lifespan, and reduced amyloid-β (Aβ) toxicity in transgenic 
C. elegans expressing human Aβ. Moreover, bioactivity-guided fractionation 
yielded two potent constituents from fraction 3 of the MeOH extract, namely, 
kaempferol 3-O-(2″-glucopyranosyl)-rutinoside and kaempferol 
3-O-(2″-xylopyranosyl)-rutinoside, and both compounds exhibited excellent in 
vivo antioxidant activity. Taken together, MeOH extracts of tea seed pomace from 
C. tenuifolia have multiple beneficial health effects, suggesting that biowaste 
might be valuable to be explored for further development as nutraceutical 
products. Furthermore, the reuse of agricultural byproduct tea seed pomace also 
fulfills the environmental perspective.

DOI: 10.1021/jf503192x
PMID: 25295856 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


551. NCHS Data Brief. 2014 Oct;(168):1-8.

Mortality in the United States, 2012.

Xu J, Kochanek KD, Murphy SL, Arias E.

Data from the National Vital Statistics System, Mortality. Life expectancy at 
birth for the U.S. population reached a record high of 78.8 years in 2012. The 
age-adjusted death rate for the United States decreased 1.1% from 2011 to 2012 
to a record low of 732.8 per 100,000 standard population. The 10 leading causes 
of death in 2012 remained the same as in 2011. Age-adjusted death rates 
decreased significantly from 2011 to 2012 for 8 of the 10 leading causes and 
increased significantly for one leading cause (suicide). The infant mortality 
rate decreased 1.5% from 2011 to 2012 to a historic low of 597.8 infant deaths 
per 100,000 live births. The 10 leading causes of infant death in 2012 remained 
the same as in 2011. This report presents 2012 U.S. final mortality data on 
deaths and death rates by demographic and medical characteristics. These data 
provide information on mortality patterns among residents of the United States 
by such variables as sex, race and ethnicity, and cause of death. Information on 
mortality patterns is key to understanding changes in the health and well-being 
of the U.S. population (1). Life expectancy estimates, age-adjusted death rates 
by race and ethnicity and sex, 10 leading causes of death, and 10 leading causes 
of infant death were analyzed by comparing 2012 final data with 2011 final data.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 25296181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


552. J Gastrointest Surg. 2014 Dec;18(12):2074-9. doi: 10.1007/s11605-014-2653-7.
 Epub 2014 Oct 9.

Re-examining the BMI threshold for bariatric surgery in the USA.

Choudhury RA(1), Murayama KM, Neylan CJ, Savulionyte G, Glick HA, Williams NN, 
Dempsey DT, Dumon KR.

Author information:
(1)Johns Hopkins Hospital, Baltimore, MD, USA, rashikhc@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The optimal BMI threshold above which gastric bypass surgery should 
be offered to obese patients is controversial. The objective of this study was 
to compare the impact of Roux-en-Y gastric bypass (RYGB) vs. diet and exercise 
(D&E) on life expectancy to find the BMI at which patients experience an 
improvement in their life expectancy by undergoing surgery.
METHODS: A Markov state transition model was designed to implement a decision 
tree that simulated the lives of obese patients. Life expectancies following 
RYGB and 2 years of D&E were estimated and compared. Ten thousand patients' 
lives were simulated in each weight-loss intervention group in the model. In 
addition to base case analysis (45 kg/m(2) BMI pre-intervention), sensitivity 
analysis of initial BMI at the start of the study was completed. Markov model 
parameters were extracted from the literature.
RESULTS: The impact of RYGB on survival relative to D&E depended on the 
patient's initial BMI. Compared to patients who underwent 2 years of "optimal" 
diet and exercise (7 % total body weight loss/year), RYGB improved long-term 
survival for patients above a BMI of 31.3 kg/m(2).
CONCLUSIONS: Roux-en-Y gastric bypass can improve long-term survival for 
patients with class I obesity. This study suggests that RYGB should not be 
reserved solely for patients with class II or III obesity.

DOI: 10.1007/s11605-014-2653-7
PMID: 25297444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


553. Rejuvenation Res. 2014 Dec;17(6):507-17. doi: 10.1089/rej.2014.1581.

Late-onset temperature reduction can retard the aging process in aged fish via a 
combined action of an anti-oxidant system and the insulin/insulin-like growth 
factor 1 signaling pathway.

Wang X(1), Chang Q, Wang Y, Su F, Zhang S.

Author information:
(1)1 Laboratory for Evolution & Development, Institute of Evolution & Marine 
Biodiversity and Department of Marine Biology, Ocean University of China , 
Qingdao, China .

Two different mechanisms are considered to be related to aging. Cumulative 
molecular damage caused by reactive oxygen species (ROS), the by-products of 
oxidative phosphorylation, is one of these mechanisms (ROS concept). Deregulated 
nutrient sensing by the insulin/insulin-like growth factor 1 (IGF-1) signaling 
(IIS) pathway is the second mechanism (IIS concept). Temperature reduction (TR) 
is known to modulate aging and prolong life span in a variety of organisms, but 
the mechanisms remain poorly defined. Here we first demonstrate that late-onset 
TR from 26 °C to 22 °C extends mean life span and maximum life span by 
approximately 5.2 and 3 weeks, respectively, in the annual fish Nothobranchius 
guentheri. We then show that TR is able to decrease the accumulation of the 
histological aging markers senescence-associated β-galactosidase (SA-β-Gal) in 
the epithelium and lipofuscin (LF) in the liver and to reduce protein oxidation 
and lipid peroxidation levels in the muscle. We also show that TR can enhance 
the activities of catalase, glutathione peroxidase, and superoxide dismutase, 
and stimulate the synthesis of SirT1 and FOXO3A/FOXO1A, both of which are the 
downstream regulators of the IIS pathway. Taken together, our findings suggest 
that late-onset TR, a simple non-intrusion intervention, can retard the aging 
process in aged fish, resulting in their life span extension, via a synergistic 
action of an anti-oxidant system and the IIS pathway. This also suggests that 
combined assessment of the ROS and IIS concepts will contribute to providing a 
more comprehensive view of the anti-aging process.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2014.1581
PMCID: PMC4270139
PMID: 25298234 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


554. Int J Syst Evol Microbiol. 2015 Jan;65(Pt 1):122-128. doi: 
10.1099/ijs.0.065466-0. Epub 2014 Oct 8.

Epilithonimonas ginsengisoli sp. nov., isolated from soil of a ginseng field.

Hoang VA(1), Kim YJ(1), Ponnuraj SP(2), Nguyen NL(1), Hwang KH(3), Yang DC(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oriental Medicinal Material and Processing, College of Life 
Science, Kyung-Hee University, Seocheon-dong, Giheung-gu, Yongin-si, Gyeonggi-do 
446-701, Republic of Korea.
(2)Graduate school of Biotechnology, Ginseng Genetic Resource Bank, College of 
life science, Kyung Hee University, Yongin, 446-701, Republic of Korea.
(3)GuyeonggiDo Agricultural Research & Extension Services, Yeoncheon-gun, 
Gyeonggi-do, 486-833, Republic of Korea.

A novel Gram-staining-negative, rod-shaped bacterium, designated DCY78(T), was 
isolated from soil of a ginseng field in Yeon-cheon province (38° 04' 00″ N 126° 
57' 00″ E), Republic of Korea. The phylogenetic analysis based on 16S rRNA gene 
sequences showed that strain DCY78(T) belonged to the genus Epilithonimonas and 
was most closely related to Epilithonimonas lactis DSM 19921(T) (98.5 % sequence 
similarity) and Epilithonimonas tenax DSM 16811(T) (97.8 %). Growth occurred at 
10-30 °C with an optimum temperature of 28 °C. The pH range for growth was pH 
5.5-8.0. The major polar lipids were found to be phosphatidylethanolamine three 
unidentified amino lipids and one unidentified polar lipid. The only predominant 
quinone was MK-6. The major polyamines were sym-homospermidine and spermidine. 
The major fatty acids were summed feature 3 (comprising C16 : 1ω6c and/or 
C16 : 1ω7c), iso-C15 : 0 and iso-C17 : 0 3-OH. The DNA G+C content was 37.9 
mol%. On the basis of the phenotypic and genotypic analysis, the isolate is 
classified as representative of a novel species in the genus Epilithonimonas, 
for which the name Epilithonimonas ginsengisoli is proposed. The type strain is 
DCY78(T) ( = KCTC 32174(T) = JCM 19896(T)).

© 2015 IUMS.

DOI: 10.1099/ijs.0.065466-0
PMID: 25298379 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


555. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2014 Oct 15;39(22 Suppl 1):S16-42. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0000000000000567.

The role of decision analytic modeling in the health economic assessment of 
spinal intervention.

Edwards NC(1), Skelly AC, Ziewacz JE, Cahill K, McGirt MJ.

Author information:
(1)*Health Services Consulting Corporation, Boxborough, MA †Spectrum Research, 
Inc., Tacoma, WA ‡Carolina Neurosurgery & Spine Associates, Charlotte, NC; and 
§The University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC.

STUDY DESIGN: Narrative review.
OBJECTIVE: To review the common tenets, strengths, and weaknesses of decision 
modeling for health economic assessment and to review the use of decision 
modeling in the spine literature to date.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: For the majority of spinal interventions, 
well-designed prospective, randomized, pragmatic cost-effectiveness studies that 
address the specific decision-in-need are lacking. Decision analytic modeling 
allows for the estimation of cost-effectiveness based on data available to date. 
Given the rising demands for proven value in spine care, the use of decision 
analytic modeling is rapidly increasing by clinicians and policy makers.
METHODS: This narrative review discusses the general components of decision 
analytic models, how decision analytic models are populated and the trade-offs 
entailed, makes recommendations for how users of spine intervention decision 
models might go about appraising the models, and presents an overview of 
published spine economic models.
RESULTS: A proper, integrated, clinical, and economic critical appraisal is 
necessary in the evaluation of the strength of evidence provided by a modeling 
evaluation. As is the case with clinical research, all options for collecting 
health economic or value data are not without their limitations and flaws. There 
is substantial heterogeneity across the 20 spine intervention health economic 
modeling studies summarized with respect to study design, models used, 
reporting, and general quality. There is sparse evidence for populating spine 
intervention models. Results mostly showed that interventions were 
cost-effective based on $100,000/quality-adjusted life-year threshold. Spine 
care providers, as partners with their health economic colleagues, have unique 
clinical expertise and perspectives that are critical to interpret the strengths 
and weaknesses of health economic models.
CONCLUSION: Health economic models must be critically appraised for both 
clinical validity and economic quality before altering health care policy, 
payment strategies, or patient care decisions.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 4.
