complications and 5 year survival. Secondly, information from forensic 
toxicology reports regarding deaths amongst known injecting drug abusers were 
gathered for the same period.
RESULTS: A total of 57 patients with a history of active injecting drug use were 
admitted to intensive care or approximately 1% of admissions, most often for 
overdose (52%) or life threatening infections (39%). Median age was 26, males 
were 66%. The most common substances used were prescription drugs. Hospital 
mortality was 16% and five year survival 65%. Average time from hospital 
discharge to death was 916±858 days. During the study period 38 deaths of 
individuals with a history of injecting drugs were identified by forensic 
toxicology reports or 4.1/10(5) population/year (age 15-59). Cause of death was 
most often overdose (53%), usually from prescription opiates but multiple drug 
use was common.
DISCUSSION: The life expectancy of injecting drug abusers after intensive care 
admission is substantially decreased, with 35% death rate within five years. A 
widespread use of prescription drugs is of concern. Injecting drug abuse seems 
to be a similar health problem in magnitude in Iceland as in other Scandinavian 
countries.

DOI: 10.17992/lbl.2014.10.561
PMID: 25310040 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. Antivir Ther. 2014;19 Suppl 3:3-4. doi: 10.3851/IMP2894. Epub 2014 Oct 13.

The AIDS response catalysing economic and social transformation: the importance 
of local pharmaceutical production.

Sidibé M(1).

Author information:
(1)Executive Director, UNAIDS, Geneva, Switzerland. sidibem@unaids.org.

DOI: 10.3851/IMP2894
PMID: 25310132 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Antivir Ther. 2014;19 Suppl 3:105-16. doi: 10.3851/IMP2905. Epub 2014 Oct
13.

Provision of antiretroviral therapy in South Africa: the nuts and bolts.

Bekker LG(1), Venter F, Cohen K, Goemare E, Van Cutsem G, Boulle A, Wood R.

Author information:
(1)The Desmond Tutu HIV Centre, IDM and Medicine, University of Cape Town, Cape 
Town, South Africa. Linda-gail.bekker@hiv-research.org.za.

Public sector antiretroviral provision had a slow start in South Africa despite 
a raging epidemic and a World AIDS conference that shed significant public light 
on the disparities of therapy access globally. This was largely due to political 
prevarication in the midst of AIDS denialism. There has been an unprecedented 
expansion in the HIV treatment programme since 2008. As a result, South Africa 
now has the largest number of patients on antiretroviral drugs in the world, and 
South African life expectancy has increased by more than a decade. However, this 
has led to a number of fiscal, logistic and operational challenges that the 
country must face as the treatment programme continues to expand. Challenges 
include increasing detection within communities, linkage and retention in care, 
while strengthening operational support functions such as consistent drug 
supply, health staffing and infrastructure, diagnostic services, programme 
monitoring and sustainable financing. As a middle-income country, albeit with 
marked income inequality, and the heaviest HIV burden in the world, South Africa 
is a test case of whether a large-scale public health programme can boast of 
success in the face of numerous other health-system challenges.

DOI: 10.3851/IMP2905
PMID: 25310359 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Rev Bras Ter Intensiva. 2006 Sep;18(3):282-91.

[Renal protection in a surgical intensive care unit].

[Article in Portuguese]

Santos LM(1), Hajjar LA(1), Galas FR(1), Fernandes Júnior CJ(2), Auler Júnior 
JO(1).

Author information:
(1)InCor, HCFMUSP.
(2)Hospital Israelita Albert Einstein.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVES: Perioperative renal dysfunction is an important cause 
of morbidity and mortality. With increase of life expectancy, older patients 
with more co-morbidity are being submitted to high risk surgical procedures, 
what make clinical practice related to organ protection possible modifier of 
short and long term survival. This review about renal protection in surgical 
intensive care unit points risk factors and discusses scientific evidence 
related to reduction of renal dysfunction in perioperative.
CONTENTS: Although low extraction and adequate renal reserve of oxygen, the 
kidney is extremely sensible to hypoperfusion being renal acute insufficiency a 
frequent complication of hemodynamic instability. This apparent paradox, high 
oxygen content and reduced extraction with high incidence of renal damage to 
hypotension reflects the intra-renal gradient of oxygen, what makes renal 
medulla highly susceptible to ischemia. Factors associated with renal lesion are 
observed in all fases of perioperative period: fasting, contrast use, 
hypovolemia, hypotension, catecholamine and cytokine release, extracorporeal 
circulation, trauma, rabdomiolisys and aortic clamp.
CONCLUSIONS: Management of renal damage is based in principals of perioperative 
renal physiology and glomerular hemodynamic. Clinical practice directed to 
organic protection should be implemented to minimize the impact this 
dysfunction.

PMID: 25310443


606. Antivir Ther. 2014;19 Suppl 3:117-23. doi: 10.3851/IMP2906. Epub 2014 Oct
13.

Scaling-up the use of generic antiretrovirals in resource-limited countries: 
generic drugs for health.

Beck EJ(1), Passarelli C, Lui I, Guichard AC, Simao M, De Lay P, Loures L.

Author information:
(1)Office of the Deputy Executive Director, UNAIDS, Geneva, Switzerland. 
becke@unaids.org.

The number of people living with HIV (PLHIV) continues to increase around the 
world because of the increasing number on antiretroviral therapy (ART) and their 
associated increase of life expectancy, in addition to the number of people 
newly infected with HIV each year. Unless a 'cure' can be found for HIV 
infection, PLHIV can anticipate the need to take antiretroviral drugs (ARVs) for 
the rest of their lives. Because ARVs are now being used for HIV prevention, as 
well as for therapeutic purposes, the need for effective, affordable ARVs with 
few adverse effects will continue to rise. It is important to note that the 
dramatic growth in treatment coverage of PLHIV seen during the past decade has 
been primarily due to the increased use of generic ARVs. Thus, there will be a 
need to scale-up the research and development, production, distribution and 
access to generic ARVs and ART regimens. However, these processes must occur 
within national and international regulated free-market economic systems and 
must deal with increasingly multifaceted patent issues affecting the price while 
ensuring the quality of the ARVs. National and international regulatory 
mechanisms will have to evolve, which will affect broader national and 
international economic and trade issues. Because of the complexity of these 
issues, the Editors of this Supplement conceived of asking experts in their 
fields to describe the various steps from relevant research and development, to 
production of generic ARVs, their delivery to countries and subsequently to 
PLHIV in low- and middle-income countries. A main objective was to highlight how 
these steps are interrelated, how the production and delivery of these drugs to 
PLHIV in resource-limited countries can be made more effective and efficient, 
and what the lessons are for the production and delivery of a broader set of 
drugs to people in low- and middle-income countries.

DOI: 10.3851/IMP2906
PMID: 25310477 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. Curr Opin Oncol. 2015 Jan;27(1):8-14. doi: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000147.

What to do with incidental thyroid nodules identified on imaging studies? Review 
of current evidence and recommendations.

Hoang JK(1), Grady AT, Nguyen XV.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Radiology bDepartment of Radiation Oncology, Duke University 
Medical Center, Durham, North Carolina cDepartment of Radiology, The Ohio State 
University Wexner Medical Center, Columbus, Ohio, USA.

PURPOSE OF REVIEW: To discuss the problem of incidental thyroid nodules (ITN) 
detected on imaging; summarize the literature for workup methods; and provide 
recommendations based on current evidence.
RECENT FINDINGS: ITN are a common problem, seen in 40-50% of ultrasound and 16% 
of computed tomography (CT) and MRI studies that include the thyroid. The 
personal and financial costs of workup frequently outweigh the benefits when 
considering that the majority of ITN are benign; 25-41% of patients undergo 
surgery after biopsy, of which more than half ultimately result in a benign 
diagnosis, and small thyroid cancers have an indolent course. Workup should 
consider reduction in unnecessary workup in addition to cancer diagnosis. The 
Society of Radiologists in Ultrasound recommendations have been proposed for ITN 
detected on ultrasound and found to reduce workup by 30%. For ITN detected on 
CT, MRI, or PET/CT, a three-tiered system categorization method reduces workup 
of ITN by 35-46%.
SUMMARY: The ideal approach to selecting ITN detected on imaging for workup 
would not be to diagnose all cancers, but to diagnose cancers that have reached 
clinical significance, while avoiding unnecessary tests and surgery in patients 
with benign nodules, especially those who have limited life expectancy. The 
three-tiered system and the Society of Radiologists in Ultrasound 
recommendations are supported by existing studies and focus on reducing 
unnecessary biopsy.

DOI: 10.1097/CCO.0000000000000147
PMID: 25310642 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. Adv Exp Med Biol. 2015;834:15-20. doi: 10.1007/5584_2014_11.

Disability-adjusted life years in the assessment of health effects of 
traffic-related air pollution.

Adamkiewicz Ł(1), Badyda AJ, Gayer A, Mucha D.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Environmental Engineering, Warsaw University of Technology, 20 
Nowowiejska St., 00-653, Warsaw, Poland, lukasz.adamkiewicz@gmail.coma.

Traffic-related air pollutants have an impact on human health and have been 
recognized as one of the main stressors that cause mortality and morbidity in 
urban areas. Research confirms that citizens living in the vicinity of main 
roads are strongly exposed to high concentrations of numerous air pollutants. In 
the present study the measurements of traffic-related parameters such as 
density, velocity, and structure were performed for cross-sections of selected 
street canyons in Warsaw, the capital city of Poland. In addition, the results 
of the general traffic measurements were used to describe the number of cars 
crossing the border of the city. Vehicle emissions of PM10 were calculated for 
the whole city area and changes of the PM10 concentration were modeled to 
present the exposure to this pollutant that could be attributable to traffic. 
The principles of the environmental burden of disease (EBD) were used. The 
assessment of the impact of traffic-related air pollutants on human health was 
made. The results, presented in disability-adjusted life years (DALY), were 
based on the outcomes of the study conducted in 2008-2012 in Warsaw, one the 
most congested agglomerations in Europe, and included the health damage effect 
of the exposure to high concentrations of air pollutants. DALY calculations were 
performed in accordance to the methodologies used in renowned international 
scientific research on EBD.

DOI: 10.1007/5584_2014_11
PMID: 25310938 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Genomics. 2014 Dec;104(6 Pt B):472-6. doi: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2014.10.002. Epub
 2014 Oct 12.

Cox regression model for dissecting genetic architecture of survival time.

Jiang D(1), Wang H(2), Li J(3), Wu Y(4), Fang M(1), Yang R(5).

Author information:
(1)Life Science College Heilongjiang Bayi Agricultural University, Daqing 
163319, People's Republic of China.
(2)Fishery Technical Extension Station, Beijing Daxing Animal Health Supervisory 
Commission, Beijing 102600, People's Republic of China.
(3)Applied and Computational Mathematics and Statistics, University of Notre 
Dame, IN 46637, USA.
(4)Institute of Animal Science, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Science, Beijing 
100193, People's Republic of China.
(5)Research Centre for Aquatic Biotechnology, Chinese Academy of Fishery 
Sciences, Beijing 100141, People's Republic of China. Electronic address: 
runqingyang@sjtu.edu.cn.

Common quantitative trait locus (QTL) mapping methods fail to analyze survival 
traits of skewed normal distributions. As a result, some mapping methods for 
survival traits have been proposed based on survival analysis. Under a single 
QTL model, however, those methods perform poorly in detecting multiple QTLs and 
provide biased estimates of QTL parameters. For sparse oversaturated model used 
to map survival time loci, the least absolute shrinkage and selection operator 
(LASSO) for Cox regression model can be employed to efficiently shrink most of 
genetic effects to zero. Then, a few non-zero genetic effects are re-estimated 
and statistically tested using the standard maximum Cox partial likelihood 
method. Simulation shows that the proposed method has higher statistic power for 
QTL detection than that of the LASSO for logarithmic linear model or the 
interval mapping based on Cox model, although it somewhat underestimates QTL 
effects. Especially, computational speed of the method is very fast. An 
application of this method illustrates mapping main effect and interacting QTLs 
for heading time in the North American Barley Genome Mapping Project.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygeno.2014.10.002
PMID: 25311647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Semergen. 2014 Jul;40 Suppl 2:9-15. doi: 10.1016/S1138-3593(14)74385-0.

[Role of classical oral glucose-lowering medications in current treatment].

[Article in Spanish]

Carramiñana Barrera FC(1).

Author information:
(1)Medicina de Familia, Centro de Salud San Roque, Badajoz, España; Gerencia del 
Área de Salud de Badajoz-Zafra Llerena, Badajoz, España; Grupo de Trabajo de 
Diabetes de SEMERGEN. Electronic address: fcbzafra@gmail.com.

Classical oral glucose were discovered in the mid twentieth century. Despite the 
time elapsed since then and the lack of large studies to support the use of some 
of these drugs, they continue to be employed, are indicated in all clinical 
practice guidelines and consensus documents and, overall, remain among the most 
widely prescribed drugs in the national health system. The main arguments for 
their continued use are their widespread and prolonged prescription, their 
effectiveness, and cost. Their main disadvantages have always been and continue 
to be their adverse gastrointestinal effects, weight gain, the risk of 
hypoglycemia and other adverse effects, which have encouraged the development of 
new glucose-lowering drugs with an improved pharmacological profile that would 
cover the various mechanisms of hyperglycemia. Currently, deep knowledge of 
glucose-lowering drugs is required in the patient-centered management of 
diabetes. Furthermore, this knowledge should be adapted to each individual 
patient to acquire the experience necessary to achieve effective metabolic 
control, delay the development of chronic complications, and improve the quality 
of life and life expectancy of patients with diabetes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier España, S.L.U. y Sociedad Española de Medicina Rural y 
Generalista (SEMERGEN). All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S1138-3593(14)74385-0
PMID: 25311715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. Curr Med Chem. 2015;22(7):891-901. doi: 10.2174/0929867321666141012173520.

P2X receptors and diabetes.

Fotino C, Vergani A, Fiorina P, Pileggi A(1).

Author information:
(1)Cell Transplant Center, Diabetes Research Institute, University of Miami, 
1450 NW 10th Avenue (R- 134) - Miami, FL 33136 - USA. apileggi@med.miami.edu.

Diabetes is a metabolic disorder characterized by elevation of glucose levels in 
the blood that develops in humans as a result of genetic predisposition and 
environmental factors. Unbalanced glycemic control has been associated with the 
development of progressive and debilitating complications that dramatically 
affect the quality of life and life expectancy of people with diabetes. The 
purinergic system represents a widely diffused signaling pathway in mammalian 
cells of different tissues where it plays critical roles in both physiological 
and pathological conditions. Herein we review the increasing evidence supporting 
that the purinergic system plays an important role in the multiple facets of 
diabetes, including its physiopathology and complications. We also discuss the 
potential relevance of the purinergic pathway for diagnosis and treatment of 
diabetes.

DOI: 10.2174/0929867321666141012173520
PMID: 25312216 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Thromb Res. 2014 Nov;134(5):931-8. doi: 10.1016/j.thromres.2014.08.014. Epub
 2014 Oct 10.

Thrombosis: a major contributor to global disease burden.

ISTH Steering Committee for World Thrombosis Day.

Collaborators: Raskob GE(1), Angchaisuksiri P(2), Blanco AN(3), Buller H(4), 
Gallus A(5), Hunt BJ(6), Hylek EM(7), Kakkar A(8), Konstantinides SV(9), 
McCumber M(10), Ozaki Y(11), Wendelboe A(10), Weitz JI(12).

Author information:
(1)College of Public Health, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 801 
NE 13th Street Oklahoma City, OK 73104 United States. Electronic address: 
Gary-Raskob@ouhsc.edu.
(2)Faculty of Medicine, Ramathibodi Hospital, Mahidol University, Rama VI Rd. 
Bangkok 10400 Thailand.
(3)División Hemostasia, Academia Nacional de Medicina, Av. Scalabrini Ortiz 2894 
Buenos Aires Argentina.
(4)Academic Medical Center, Department of Vascular Medicine, Meibergdreef 9 
Amsterdam 1105 Netherlands.
(5)SA Pathology - Department of Hematology, Flinders Medical Center, Flinders 
Drive, Bedford Park, South Australia, 5042 Australia.
(6)Thrombosis & Thrombophilia Centre, Guy
(7)Boston University School of Medicine, 801 Massachusetts Ave. Boston 02118 
United States.
(8)Thrombosis Research Institute, Manresa Road London SW3 6LR England.
(9)Center for Thrombosis and Hemostasis, Johannes Gutenberg University, 
Langenbeckstr. 1 Mainz, 55131 Germany.
(10)College of Public Health, University of Oklahoma Health Sciences Center, 801 
NE 13th Street Oklahoma City, OK 73104 United States.
(11)Department of Laboratory Medicine, University of Yamanashi, 1110 Shimokato, 
Chuo Yamanashi, 409-3898 Japan.
(12)McMaster University and the Thrombosis and Atherosclerosis Research 
Institute, 237 Barton Street E Hamilton, Ontario, L8L 2X2 Canada.

Thrombosis is a common pathology underlying ischemic heart disease, ischemic 
stroke, and venous thromboembolism (VTE). The Global Burden of Disease Study 
2010 (GBD 2010) documented that ischemic heart disease and stroke collectively 
caused one in four deaths worldwide. GBD 2010 did not report data for VTE as a 
cause of death and disability. We performed a systematic review of the 
literature on the global disease burden due to VTE in low, middle and high 
income countries. Studies from Western Europe, North America, Australia, and 
Southern Latin America (Argentina) yielded consistent results with annual 
incidences ranging from 0.75 to 2.69 per 1,000 individuals in the population. 
The incidence increased to between 2 and 7 per 1,000 among those 70 years of age 
or more. Although the incidence is lower in individuals of Chinese and Korean 
ethnicity, their disease burden is not low because of population aging. VTE 
associated with hospitalization was the leading cause of 
disability-adjusted-life-years (DALYs) lost in low and middle income countries, 
and second in high income countries, responsible for more DALYs lost than 
nosocomial pneumonia, catheter-related blood stream infections, and adverse drug 
events. VTE causes a major burden of disease across low, middle, and high income 
countries. More detailed data on the global burden of VTE should be obtained to 
inform policy and resource allocation in health systems, and to evaluate if 
improved utilization of preventive measures will reduce the burden.

Copyright © 2014 The Author. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.thromres.2014.08.014
PMID: 25312343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2015 Oct;70(10):1181-8. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glu177. Epub 2014 Oct 13.

The Influence of Dietary Fat Source on Life Span in Calorie Restricted Mice.

López-Domínguez JA(1), Ramsey JJ(2), Tran D(1), Imai DM(3), Koehne A(3), Laing 
ST(3), Griffey SM(3), Kim K(4), Taylor SL(4), Hagopian K(1), Villalba JM(5), 
López-Lluch G(6), Navas P(6), McDonald RB(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Biosciences.
(2)Department of Molecular Biosciences, jjramsey@ucdavis.edu.
(3)Comparative Pathology Laboratory, School of Veterinary Medicine, and.
(4)Department of Public Health Sciences, School of Medicine, University of 
California, Davis.
(5)Departamento de Biología Celular, Fisiología e Inmunología, Universidad de 
Córdoba, Campus de Excelencia Internacional Agroalimentario, ceiA3, Córdoba, 
Spain.
(6)Centro Andaluz de Biología del Desarrollo (CABD), Universidad Pablo de 
Olavide-CSIC, CIBERER, Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Sevilla, Spain.
(7)Department of Nutrition, University of California, Davis.

Calorie restriction (CR) without malnutrition extends life span in several 
animal models. It has been proposed that a decrease in the amount of 
polyunsaturated fatty acids (PUFAs), and especially n-3 fatty acids, in membrane 
phospholipids may contribute to life span extension with CR. Phospholipid PUFAs 
are sensitive to dietary fatty acid composition, and thus, the purpose of this 
study was to determine the influence of dietary lipids on life span in CR mice. 
C57BL/6J mice were assigned to four groups (a 5% CR control group and three 40% 
CR groups) and fed diets with soybean oil (high in n-6 PUFAs), fish oil (high in 
n-3 PUFAs), or lard (high in saturated and monounsaturated fatty acids) as the 
primary lipid source. Life span was increased (p < .05) in all CR groups 
compared to the Control mice. Life span was also increased (p < .05) in the CR 
lard mice compared to animals consuming either the CR fish or soybean oil diets. 
These results indicate that dietary lipid composition can influence life span in 
mice on CR, and suggest that a diet containing a low proportion of PUFAs and 
high proportion of monounsaturated and saturated fats may maximize life span in 
animals maintained on CR.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glu177
PMCID: PMC4612357
PMID: 25313149 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Curr Opin Chem Eng. 2014 Nov 1;6:18-24. doi: 10.1016/j.coche.2014.08.002.

Multiscale Models of Antibiotic Probiotics.

Kaznessis YN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemical Engineering and Materials Science University of 
Minnesota, Minneapolis, MN 55455, USA yiannis@umn.edu.

The discovery of antibiotics is one of the most important advances in the 
history of humankind. For eighty years human life expectancy and standards of 
living improved greatly thanks to antibiotics. But bacteria have been fighting 
back, developing resistance to our most potent molecules. New, alternative 
strategies must be explored as antibiotic therapies become obsolete because of 
bacterial resistance. Mathematical models and simulations guide the development 
of complex technologies, such as aircrafts, bridges, communication systems and 
transportation systems. Herein, models are discussed that guide the development 
of new antibiotic technologies. These models span multiple molecular and 
cellular scales, and facilitate the development of a technology that addresses a 
significant societal challenge. We argue that simulations can be a creative 
source of knowledge.

DOI: 10.1016/j.coche.2014.08.002
PMCID: PMC4192654
PMID: 25313349


615. J Infect Dev Ctries. 2014 Oct 15;8(10):1272-6. doi: 10.3855/jidc.4522.

Spondylodiscitis: evaluation of patients in a tertiary hospital.

Kaya S(1), Ercan S, Kaya S, Aktas U, Kamasak K, Ozalp H, Cinar K, Duymus R, 
Boyaci MG, Akkoyun N, Eskazan AE, Temiz H.

Author information:
(1)Diyarbakir Training and Research Hospital, Diyarbakir, Turkey. 
ksafak76@gmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: Spondylodiscitis (SD) is an uncommon but important infection. The 
aim of this work was to study the risk factors, bacteriological features, 
clinical, laboratory and radiological findings of SD, and to shed light on the 
initial treatment.
METHODOLOGY: A total of 107 patients who underwent treatment for SD were 
evaluated. The diagnosis of SD was defined by clinical findings, complete blood 
count, C-reactive protein (CRP), erythrocyte sedimentation rate (ESR), serum 
tube agglutination (STA) test, Ziehl-Neelsen staining, culture, histopathology, 
and radiological methods such as magnetic resonance imaging (MRI) and computed 
tomography (CT) scans.
RESULTS: Of the 107 cases, ranging between 17 to 83 years of age, 64 (59.8%) 
were male. Twenty-seven (25.2%) patients had diabetes mellitus. Laboratory 
investigations revealed elevated CRP in 70 (65%) patients, elevated ESR in 65 
(61%) patients, and elevated white blood cell (WBC) counts in 41 (38.3%) 
patients. Thirty-six (33.6%) patients were identified as having brucellar SD, 
and 5 (4.7%) patients were identified as having tuberculous SD. A total of 66 
(61.6%) patients were determined to have pyogenic SD. The most frequently 
isolated microorganism was Staphylococcus aureus. Antibiotic therapy was given 
intravenously to all pyogenic SD patients.
CONCLUSIONS: The incidence of SD has increased as a result of the higher life 
expectancy of older patients with chronic debilitating diseases and the increase 
of spinal surgical procedures. In patients with low back pain, SD should be 
considered as a diagnosis. For effective treatment, it is important to determine 
the etiology of the disease.

DOI: 10.3855/jidc.4522
PMID: 25313603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Adv Neonatal Care. 2014 Dec;14(6):392-7. doi: 10.1097/ANC.0000000000000137.

Congenital hyperinsulinemia with grade 4 intraventricular hemorrhage: a case 
report with a 2-year follow-up.

Begum-Hasan J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Carilion Clinic Children's Hospital, and Virginia 
Tech Carilion School of Medicine, Roanoke, Virginia.

Massive intraventricular hemorrhage associated with hypoglycemia has rarely been 
reported. We present a late preterm baby girl with severe hypoglycemia after 
birth. Despite high glucose infusion rates, her glucose levels remained in the 
30s to 50s (mg/dL) during the first week of life with a brief period of 
normoglycemia. On day 2, her computed tomography scan of head showed extensive 
intraventricular hemorrhage with intraparenchymal extension, which was reported 
as unexpected for an infant born close to term. She was diagnosed with 
congenital hyperinsulinemia. Her glucose levels normalized on diazoxide therapy 
started on day 6. In the absence of any other clear cause, the massive brain 
hemorrhage was thought to be secondary to prolonged severe hypoglycemia the 
infant suffered. She remains in global developmental delay at her age at 26 
months. This case highlights the importance of early referral of neonatal 
hypoglycemia for prompt diagnosis and management to avoid the consequences of 
prolonged low blood glucose.

DOI: 10.1097/ANC.0000000000000137
PMID: 25313802 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Vital Health Stat 20. 1994 May;(23):1-40.

Causes of death contributing to changes in life expectancy: United States, 
1984-89.

Kochanek KD, Maurer JD, Rosenberg HM.

During 1984-89, life expectancy increased for the total population (0.6 year), 
white males (0.9 year), and white females (0.5 year), while it decreased for 
black males (-0.8year) and black females (-0.2 year). These changes in life 
expectancy are the result of changes in mortality for specific age-ram-sex 
groups and identifiable causes of death. Using a technique developed by Eduardo 
E. Arriaga (1,2), this report identifies major causes of death contributing to 
the change in life expectancy between 1984 and 1989. Refer to Technical notes 
for a brief description of this methodology. The tectique partitions changes in 
life expectancy into positive contributions (which are those causes of death and 
age groups that contribute to an increase in life expectancy) and negative 
contributions (which are those that contribute to a decrease). The report 
includes separate analyses by age and causes of death. For the total population, 
positive contributions occurred for the age groups under 15 years and age groups 
45 years and over while negative contributions occurred for the age groups 15-44 
years. The report also examines the combined contributions of age and causes of 
death for the total population and the four race-sex groups. For the total 
population, positive contributions to the increase in life expectancy were due 
to changes in mortality for Diseases of heart under 1 and 35 years and over; 
Cerebrovascular diseases, 40 years and over; and Malignant neoplasms, including 
neoplasms of lymphatic and hematopoietic tissues, 30-59 years. Negative 
contributions were largely due to HIV infection, 20-59 years; Malignant 
neoplasma, including neoplasm of lymphatic and hematopoietic tissues, 65 years 
and oveq and Pneumonia and influenza, 75 years and over.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 25313837


618. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 14;9(10):e109919. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0109919. 
eCollection 2014.

TALEs from a spring--superelasticity of Tal effector protein structures.

Flechsig H(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematical and Life Sciences, Graduate School of Science, 
Hiroshima University, Higashi-Hiroshima, Japan.

Transcription activator-like effectors (TALEs) are DNA-related proteins that 
recognise and bind specific target sequences to manipulate gene expression. 
Recently determined crystal structures show that their common architecture 
reveals a superhelical overall structure that may undergo drastic conformational 
changes. To establish a link between structure and dynamics in TALE proteins we 
have employed coarse-grained elastic-network modelling of currently available 
structural data and implemented a force-probe setup that allowed us to 
investigate their mechanical behaviour in computer experiments. Based on the 
measured force-extension curves we conclude that TALEs exhibit superelastic 
dynamical properties allowing for large-scale global conformational changes 
along their helical axis, which represents the soft direction in such proteins. 
For moderate external forcing the TALE models behave like linear springs, 
obeying Hooke's law, and the investigated structures can be characterised and 
compared by a corresponding spring constant. We show that conformational 
flexibility underlying the large-scale motions is not homogeneously distributed 
over the TALE structure, but instead soft spot residues around which strain is 
accumulated and which turn out to represent key agents in the transmission of 
conformational motions are identified. They correspond to the RVD loop residues 
that have been experimentally determined to play an eminent role in the binding 
process of target DNA.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0109919
PMCID: PMC4196931
PMID: 25313859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The author has declared 
that no competing interests exist.


619. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 14;9(10):e109826. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0109826. 
eCollection 2014.

Effects of insufficient physical activity on mortality and life expectancy in 
Jiangxi province of China, 2007-2010.

Xu G(1), Sui X(2), Liu S(3), Liu J(4), Liu J(5), Li Y(3), Huang S(6), Wang Z(7), 
Blair SN(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive Medicine, School of Basic Medicine, Jiangxi 
University of Traditional Chinese Medicine, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China.
(2)Department of Exercise Science, Arnold School of Public Health, University of 
South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, United States of America.
(3)National Center for Chronic and Noncommunicable Disease Control and 
Prevention, Chinese Center for Disease Control and Prevention, Beijing, China.
(4)Division of Chronic Disease Control and Prevention, Jiangxi Province Center 
for Disease Control and Prevention, Nanchang, Jiangxi, China.
(5)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatisitcs, Arnold School of Public Health, 
University of South Carolina, Columbia, South Carolina, United States of 
America.
(6)The Second People's Hospital Affiliated to Fujian University of Traditional 
Chinese Medicine, Fuzhou, Fujian, China.
(7)Division of Exercise Rehabilitation, Beijing Sport University Sport 
Rehabilitation College, Beijing, China.

BACKGROUND: Physical inactivity remains an under-researched field in terms of 
studying burden of disease at provincial level, and no studies have examined the 
effects of inactivity on life expectancy (LE) in China. The purpose of this 
study was to estimate mortality risk and LE effects associated with insufficient 
levels of physical activity in Jiangxi province.
METHODS/FINDINGS: Prevalence of risk factors and mortality counts were extracted 
from Chronic Diseases and Risk Factors Surveillance Survey (CDRFSS) and Disease 
Surveillance Points system (DSP), respectively. Insufficient physical activity 
(IPA) was defined as less than 150 minutes of moderate-intensity physical 
activity or 60 minutes of vigorous-intensity physical activity per week, 
accumulated across work, home, transport and discretionary domains. 
Population-attributable fractions (PAF) were used to calculate the mortality 
attributable to risk factors, and life table methods were used to estimate the 
LE gains and LE shifts. Monte Carlo simulation techniques were used for 
uncertainty analysis. Overall, 5 885 (95% uncertainly interval (UI), 5 047-6 
506) and 8 578 (95% UI, 8 227-9 789) deaths in Jiangxi province were 
attributable to IPA in 2007 and 2010, respectively. The LE gains for elimination 
of attributable deaths were 0.68 (95% UI, 0.61-076) in 2007, and increased to 
0.91 (95% UI, 0.81-1.10) in 2010. If the prevalence of IPA in 2010 had been 
decreased by 50% or 30%, 3 678 (95% UI, 3 220-4 229) or 2 090 (95% UI, 1 771-2 
533) deaths would be avoided, and 0.40 (95% UI, 0.34-0.53) or 0.23 (95% UI, 
0.16-0.31) years of LE gained, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Adults in Jiangxi province of China have a high and increasing 
prevalence of IPA. Due to the deaths and potential LE gains associated with IPA, 
there is an urgent need to promote physical activity, one of the most modifiable 
risk factors, within China's health care reform agenda.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0109826
PMCID: PMC4197026
PMID: 25314595 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


620. Health Technol Assess. 2014 Oct;18(62):1-132. doi: 10.3310/hta18620.

KRAS mutation testing of tumours in adults with metastatic colorectal cancer: a 
systematic review and cost-effectiveness analysis.

Westwood M(1), van Asselt T(2), Ramaekers B(2), Whiting P(1), Joore M(2), 
Armstrong N(1), Noake C(1), Ross J(1), Severens J(3), Kleijnen J(4).

Author information:
(1)Kleijnen Systematic Reviews Ltd, York, UK.
(2)Department of Clinical Epidemiology and Medical Technology Assessment, 
Maastricht University Medical Centre, Maastricht, the Netherlands.
(3)Institute of Health Policy and Management, Erasmus University, Rotterdam, the 
Netherlands.
(4)School for Public Health and Primary Care (CAPHRI), Maastricht University, 
Maastricht, the Netherlands.

BACKGROUND: Bowel cancer is the third most common cancer in the UK. Most bowel 
cancers are initially treated with surgery, but around 17% spread to the liver. 
When this happens, sometimes the liver tumour can be treated surgically, or 
chemotherapy may be used to shrink the tumour to make surgery possible. Kirsten 
rat sarcoma viral oncogene (KRAS) mutations make some tumours less responsive to 
treatment with biological therapies such as cetuximab. There are a variety of 
tests available to detect these mutations. These vary in the specific mutations 
that they detect, the amount of mutation they detect, the amount of tumour cells 
needed, the time to give a result, the error rate and cost.
OBJECTIVES: To compare the performance and cost-effectiveness of KRAS mutation 
tests in differentiating adults with metastatic colorectal cancer whose 
metastases are confined to the liver and are unresectable and who may benefit 
from first-line treatment with cetuximab in combination with standard 
chemotherapy from those who should receive standard chemotherapy alone.
DATA SOURCES: Thirteen databases, including MEDLINE and EMBASE, research 
registers and conference proceedings were searched to January 2013. Additional 
data were obtained from an online survey of laboratories participating in the UK 
National External Quality Assurance Scheme pilot for KRAS mutation testing.
METHODS: A systematic review of the evidence was carried out using standard 
methods. Randomised controlled trials were assessed for quality using the 
Cochrane risk of bias tool. Diagnostic accuracy studies were assessed using the 
QUADAS-2 tool. There were insufficient data for meta-analysis. For accuracy 
studies we calculated sensitivity and specificity together with 95% confidence 
intervals (CIs). Survival data were summarised as hazard ratios and tumour 
response data were summarised as relative risks, with 95% CIs. The health 
economic analysis considered the long-term costs and quality-adjusted life-years 
associated with different tests followed by treatment with standard chemotherapy 
or cetuximab plus standard chemotherapy. The analysis took a 'no comparator' 
approach, which implies that the cost-effectiveness of each strategy will be 
presented only compared with the next most cost-effective strategy. The de novo 
model consisted of a decision tree and Markov model.
RESULTS: The online survey indicated no differences between tests in batch size, 
turnaround time, number of failed samples or cost. The literature searches 
identified 7903 references, of which seven publications of five studies were 
included in the review. Two studies provided data on the accuracy of KRAS 
mutation testing for predicting response to treatment in patients treated with 
cetuximab plus standard chemotherapy. Four RCTs provided data on the clinical 
effectiveness of cetuximab plus standard chemotherapy compared with that of 
standard chemotherapy in patients with KRAS wild-type tumours. There were no 
clear differences in the treatment effects reported by different studies, 
regardless of which KRAS mutation test was used to select patients. In the 
'linked evidence' analysis the Therascreen KRAS RGQ PCR Kit (QIAGEN) was more 
expensive but also more effective than pyrosequencing or direct sequencing, with 
an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £17,019 per quality-adjusted 
life-year gained. In the 'assumption of equal prognostic value' analysis the 
total costs associated with the various testing strategies were similar.
LIMITATIONS: The results assume that the differences in outcomes between the 
trials were solely the result of the different mutation tests used to 
distinguish between patients; this assumption ignores other factors that might 
explain this variation.
CONCLUSIONS: There was no strong evidence that any one KRAS mutation test was 
more effective or cost-effective than any other test.
STUDY REGISTRATION: PROSPERO CRD42013003663.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta18620
PMCID: PMC4781273
PMID: 25314637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Ned Tijdschr Geneeskd. 2014;158:A8180.

[Long live the kidney donor].

[Article in Dutch]

de Fijter JW(1), Meinders A.

Author information:
(1)Leids Universitair Medisch Centrum, afd. Interne geneeskunde en Nefrologie, 
Leiden.

Kidney transplantation offers longer life expectancy and improves quality of 
life in selected patients with end-stage renal failure. The availability of 
living donors is critical, particularly to meet the increasing demand and 
potentially pre-emptive transplantation. In addition, living donor 
transplantation is associated with better outcomes on comparison with dialysis 
or transplants from deceased donors. The major disadvantage of living donation 
is that complications may occur both directly perioperatively and in the 
long-term. Two recent studies confirmed that the risk of renal failure among 
selected living donors is extremely low. This implies that there is no need to 
alter the existing positive attitude towards living donation. Finding a 
comparable long-term control group with relevant genetic and non-genetic risk 
factors remains a challenge to studies looking at long-term effects.

PMID: 25315333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Biogerontology. 2015 Feb;16(1):63-9. doi: 10.1007/s10522-014-9535-y. Epub
2014  Oct 15.

Comparison of captive lifespan, age-associated liver neoplasias and 
age-dependent gene expression between two annual fish species: Nothobranchius 
furzeri and Nothobranchius korthause.

Baumgart M(1), Di Cicco E, Rossi G, Cellerino A, Tozzini ET.

Author information:
(1)Biology of Aging, Leibniz Institute for Age Research, Fritz Lipmann 
Institute, Jena, Germany.

Nothobranchius is a genus of annual fish broadly distributed in South-Eastern 
Africa and found into temporary ponds generated during the rain seasons and 
their lifespan is limited by the duration of their habitats. Here we compared 
two Nothobranchius species from radically different environments: N. furzeri and 
N. korthausae. We found a large difference in life expectancy (29- against 
71-weeks of median life span, 40- against 80-weeks of maximum lifespan, 
respectively), which correlates with a diverse timing in the onset of several 
age dependent processes: our data show that N. korthause longer lifespan is 
associated to retarded onset of age-dependent liver-neoplasia and slower 
down-regulation of collagen 1 alpha 2 (COL1A2) expression in the skin. On the 
other hand, the expression of cyclin B1 (CCNB1) in the brain was strongly 
age-regulated, but with similar profiles in N. furzeri and N. korthausae. In 
conclusion, our data suggest that the different ageing rate of two species of 
the same genus could be used as novel tool to investigate and better understand 
the genetic bases of some general mechanism leading to the complex ageing 
process, providing a strategy to unravel some of the genetic mechanisms 
regulating longevity and age-associate pathologies including neoplasias.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-014-9535-y
PMID: 25315356 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. J Anesth. 2015 Jun;29(3):442-445. doi: 10.1007/s00540-014-1925-4. Epub 2014
Oct  15.

Detection and diagnosis of iatrogenic inadvertent diversion of partial inferior 
vena cava into the left atrium by transesophageal echocardiography during large 
posteroinferior surgical atrial septal defect closure.

Zhang Y(1), Song H(1), Qiao X(2), Xiao X(3), Liu J(1), Wang X(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, 610041, Sichuan, People's Republic of China.
(2)Department of Anesthesiology, Chongqing Zhongshan Hospital, Chongqing, 
404100, People's Republic of China.
(3)Department of Cardiac Surgery, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, 610041, Sichuan, People's Republic of China.
(4)Department of Anesthesiology, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, 
Chengdu, 610041, Sichuan, People's Republic of China. 1490829116@qq.com.

Comment in
    J Anesth. 2017 Apr;31(2):296.

Iatrogenic diversion of the inferior vena cava (IVC) into the left atrium (LA) 
is usually reported as a rare complication following large posteroinferior 
atrial septal defect (ASD) surgery. It may cause acute or chronic hypoxemia, and 
other potentially life-threatening complications such as stroke. We present a 
case in which the ASD patch straddled the IVC entrance diagnosed immediately by 
transesophageal echocardiography (TEE) during the period of patient separated 
from cardiopulmonary bypass, avoiding the related complications. Our report 
further underlines the important role of TEE to monitor and guide ASD surgical 
management, especially secundum ASD with inferior extension or inferior sinus 
venosus defects, for the early diagnosis of iatrogenic surgical errors.

DOI: 10.1007/s00540-014-1925-4
PMID: 25315455 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2014 Sep 19;111(38):627-8. doi:
10.3238/arztebl.2014.0627.

The disease burden on our shoulders.

Berger K(1).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Epidemiology and Social Medicine, University of Münster, 
Germany.

Comment on
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2014 Sep 19;111(38):629-38.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2014.0627
PMCID: PMC4199247
PMID: 25316517 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2014 Sep 19;111(38):629-38. doi:
10.3238/arztebl.2014.0629.

Trends in disease burden in Germany: results, implications and limitations of 
the Global Burden of Disease study.

Plass D(1), Vos T, Hornberg C, Scheidt-Nave C, Zeeb H, Krämer A.

Author information:
(1)Bielefeld University, Working Group 2, Department of Public Health Medicine, 
Bielefeld, Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, Seattle, USA, Bielefeld 
University, Working Group 7, Department of Environment and Health, Bielefeld, 
Department of Epidemiology and Health Monitoring of the Robert Koch Institute, 
Berlin, Leibniz Institute for Prevention Research and Epidemiology - BIPS GmbH, 
The Department of Prevention and Evaluation, Bremen.

Comment in
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2014 Sep 19;111(38):627-8.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2015 Mar 20;112(12):211.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2015 Mar 20;112(12):211.
    Dtsch Arztebl Int. 2015 Mar 20;112(12):212.

BACKGROUND: The Global Burden of Disease (GBD) study is designed to give a 
comprehensive and standardized assessment of the health of populations around 
the world. It measures the burden of disease by considering years of life lost 
due to premature death as well as years lived with disability. The findings 
enable the identification of secular trends and disparities between countries 
and can serve as a basis for decision-making in health policy.
METHOD: In cooperation with the authors of the GBD study, we summarize the key 
methods used to assess the burden of disease in terms of disability-adjusted 
life years (DALYs). We present findings that specifically pertain to Germany, 
drawn from freely available data of the most recent round of analysis for the 
years 1990 and 2010.
RESULTS: According to the GBD study, life expectancy in Germany rose from 75.4 
years in 1990 to 80.2 years in 2010. Ischemic heart disease and back pain caused 
the largest number of DALYs lost (2.5 million and 2.1 million, respectively). 
Over the period of the study, the absolute number of DALYs due to ischemic heart 
disease dropped by 33%, while the number of DALYs due to low back pain rose by 
11%. Nutrition-related risks ranked first among all risk factors considered, 
accounting for 13.8% of total DALYs, followed by high blood pressure and high 
body-mass index, accounting for 10.9% each.
CONCLUSION: In Germany, important changes have been seen over time in the burden 
of disease attributable to different chronic diseases. Some of these changes 
reflect the successful interventions of the past, while others indicate a need 
for new action. The data from Germany that went into the GBD study must be 
systematically assessed and supplemented by further data relating to questions 
of specific relevance in this country.

DOI: 10.3238/arztebl.2014.0629
PMCID: PMC4199248
PMID: 25316518 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. J Bras Nefrol. 2014 Jul-Sep;36(3):367-74.

Clinical and epidemiological profile of chronic hemodialysis patients in João 
Pessoa--PB.

[Article in English, Portuguese]

de Oliveira HM Jr(1), Formiga FF(1), Alexandre Cda S(1).

Author information:
(1)Universidade Federal da Paraíba.

INTRODUCTION: Chronic kidney disease (CKD), considered by some authors as an 
epidemic of this century, relates directly to chronic diseases such diabetes 
(DM) and high blood pressure (HBP) and increase the life expectancy of the 
population.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to delineate epidemiological profile of 
patients on hemodialysis (HD) in a Brazilian capital.
METHODS: We conducted a cross-sectional study of a random sample of convenience, 
using a questionnaire in 245 patients between August 2011 and March 2012. All 
patients interviewed were in HD program in three Nephrology services at the 
Unified Health System (UHS) in João Pessoa.
RESULTS: Of the respondents, 61% were male, 66% were married and 44.5% were 
white. Approximately 50% were aged 40-59 years and 51% were living out of João 
Pessoa. The main etiologies were HBP (38%) and DM (13%). Main comorbidities were 
diabetic retinopathy (15.5%) and peripheral neuropathy (13.5%). Ninety-two 
percent reported an episode of hospitalization. Temporary vascular access was 
used in 100% of patients in first dialysis.
CONCLUSION: Results of this study indicate the importance of better monitoring 
of these pre-dialysis patients, which could reduce morbimortality.

PMID: 25317620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. J Palliat Med. 2015 Jan;18(1):11-7. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2014.9395.

ACR Appropriateness Criteria(®) non-spine bone metastases.

Kim EY(1), Chapman TR, Ryu S, Chang EL, Galanopoulos N, Jones J, Kubicky CD, Lee 
CP, Teh BS, Traughber BJ, Van Poznak C, Vassil AD, Weber K, Lo SS.

Author information:
(1)1 University of Washington , Seattle, Washington.

Bone metastases are a common clinical problem, affecting many types of cancer 
patients. The presence of tumor in bone can cause significant morbidity 
including pain, neurological dysfunction, hypercalcemia, and pathological 
fracture leading to functional loss. The optimal treatment of a patient with 
bone metastases depends on many factors, including evaluation of the patient's 
goals of care, performance status, mechanical stability of the affected bone, 
life expectancy, and overall extent of disease. Treatment options may include 
radiotherapy, systemic therapies, surgical stabilization, medical pain 
management, and radiopharmaceuticals. Ideal management of bone metastases 
requires a coordinated multidisciplinary approach among diagnostic radiologists, 
radiation oncologists, medical oncologists, orthopedic surgeons, pain 
specialists, physiatrists, and palliative care specialists. The American College 
of Radiology Appropriateness Criteria(®) are evidence-based guidelines for 
specific clinical conditions that are reviewed every 3 years by a 
multidisciplinary expert panel. The guidelines development and review include an 
extensive analysis of current medical literature from peer-reviewed journals and 
the application of a well-established consensus methodology (modified Delphi) to 
rate the appropriateness of imaging and treatment procedures by the panel. In 
those instances where evidence is lacking or not definitive, expert opinion may 
be used to recommend imaging or treatment.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2014.9395
PMID: 25317672 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Environ Sci Technol. 2014 Nov 18;48(22):13093-101. doi: 10.1021/es5036333.
Epub  2014 Oct 31.

Inhalable constituents of thirdhand tobacco smoke: chemical characterization and 
health impact considerations.

