
Author information:
(1)D.F. Chebotarev State Institute of Gerontology NAMS , Lab Pathophysiology and 
Immunology, Kyiv, Ukraine .
(2)Heales (Healthy Life Extension Society) , Paris, France .
(3)National University , Department of Mathematics and Natural Sciences, Los 
Angeles, California.

It was reported using various biological models that the administration of blood 
factors from young animals to old animals could rejuvenate certain functions. To 
assess the anti-aging effect of young blood we tested the influence of repeated 
injections of plasma from young mice on the lifespan of aged mice. One group of 
36 CBA/Ca female mice aged 10-12 months was treated by repeated injections of 
plasma from 2- to 4-month-old females (averaging 75-150 μL per injection, once 
intravenously and once intraperitoneally per week for 16 months). Their lifespan 
was compared to a control group that received saline injections. The median 
lifespan of mice from the control group was 27 months versus 26.4 months in 
plasma-treated group; the repeated injections of young plasma did not 
significantly impact either median or maximal lifespan.

DOI: 10.1089/biores.2014.0043
PMCID: PMC4215333
PMID: 25371859


790. N Engl J Med. 2014 Nov 6;371(19):1793-802. doi: 10.1056/NEJMoa1312547.

Cost-effectiveness of CT screening in the National Lung Screening Trial.

Black WC(1), Gareen IF, Soneji SS, Sicks JD, Keeler EB, Aberle DR, Naeim A, 
Church TR, Silvestri GA, Gorelick J, Gatsonis C; National Lung Screening Trial 
Research Team.

Collaborators: Abbott G, Aberle DR, Amorosa JK, Barr RG, Black WC, Boiselle PM, 
Chiles C, Clark R, Coppage L, Falk R, Fishman EK, Gemmel D, Goldin JG, Goodman 
E, Hart EM, Hazelton T, Judy PF, Kazerooni E, McComb BL, McLennan G, Munden RF, 
Ravenel J, Sullivan MA, Swensen SJ, Torigian DA, Tung G, Vydareny KH, Worrell 
JA.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Radiology (W.C.B.), Dartmouth Institute for Health 
Policy and Clinical Practice (S.S.S.), and Norris Cotton Cancer Center (S.S.S.), 
Geisel School of Medicine at Dartmouth, Dartmouth-Hitchcock Medical Center, 
Lebanon, NH; Center for Statistical Sciences (I.F.G., J.D.S., J.G., C.G.), 
Department of Epidemiology (I.F.G.), and Department of Biostatistics (C.G.), 
Brown University School of Public Health, Providence, RI; Pardee RAND Graduate 
School, Santa Monica, CA (E.B.K.); Department of Radiological Sciences (D.R.A.) 
and Divisions of Hematology-Oncology and Geriatric Medicine, Department of 
Medicine (A.N.), David Geffen School of Medicine, University of California at 
Los Angeles, Los Angeles; Division of Environmental Health Sciences, University 
of Minnesota School of Public Health, Minneapolis (T.R.C.); and Division of 
Pulmonary and Critical Care Medicine, Medical University of South Carolina, 
Charleston (G.A.S.).

Comment in
    N Engl J Med. 2015 Jan 22;372(4):388.
    N Engl J Med. 2015 Jan 22;372(4):387.
    N Engl J Med. 2015 Jan 22;372(4):387-8.
    Evid Based Med. 2015 Apr;20(2):78.
    Am J Respir Crit Care Med. 2015 Oct 15;192(8):1009-11.

BACKGROUND: The National Lung Screening Trial (NLST) showed that screening with 
low-dose computed tomography (CT) as compared with chest radiography reduced 
lung-cancer mortality. We examined the cost-effectiveness of screening with 
low-dose CT in the NLST.
METHODS: We estimated mean life-years, quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), 
costs per person, and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for three 
alternative strategies: screening with low-dose CT, screening with radiography, 
and no screening. Estimations of life-years were based on the number of observed 
deaths that occurred during the trial and the projected survival of persons who 
were alive at the end of the trial. Quality adjustments were derived from a 
subgroup of participants who were selected to complete quality-of-life surveys. 
Costs were based on utilization rates and Medicare reimbursements. We also 
performed analyses of subgroups defined according to age, sex, smoking history, 
and risk of lung cancer and performed sensitivity analyses based on several 
assumptions.
RESULTS: As compared with no screening, screening with low-dose CT cost an 
additional $1,631 per person (95% confidence interval [CI], 1,557 to 1,709) and 
provided an additional 0.0316 life-years per person (95% CI, 0.0154 to 0.0478) 
and 0.0201 QALYs per person (95% CI, 0.0088 to 0.0314). The corresponding ICERs 
were $52,000 per life-year gained (95% CI, 34,000 to 106,000) and $81,000 per 
QALY gained (95% CI, 52,000 to 186,000). However, the ICERs varied widely in 
subgroup and sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: We estimated that screening for lung cancer with low-dose CT would 
cost $81,000 per QALY gained, but we also determined that modest changes in our 
assumptions would greatly alter this figure. The determination of whether 
screening outside the trial will be cost-effective will depend on how screening 
is implemented. (Funded by the National Cancer Institute; NLST 
ClinicalTrials.gov number, NCT00047385.).

DOI: 10.1056/NEJMoa1312547
PMCID: PMC4335305
PMID: 25372087 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: No potential conflict of interest relevant to 
this article was reported.


791. Acta Crystallogr D Biol Crystallogr. 2014 Nov;70(Pt 11):3013-22. doi: 
10.1107/S1399004714021312. Epub 2014 Oct 29.

Structure of the gas vesicle protein GvpF from the cyanobacterium Microcystis 
aeruginosa.

Xu BY(1), Dai YN(1), Zhou K(1), Liu YT(1), Sun Q(1), Ren YM(1), Chen Y(1), Zhou 
CZ(1).

Author information:
(1)Hefei National Laboratory for Physical Sciences at the Microscale and School 
of Life Sciences, University of Science and Technology of China, Heifei, Anhui 
230027, People's Republic of China.

Gas vesicles are gas-filled proteinaceous organelles that provide buoyancy for 
bacteria and archaea. A gene cluster that is highly conserved in various species 
encodes about 8-14 proteins (Gvp proteins) that are involved in the formation of 
gas vesicles. Here, the first crystal structure of the gas vesicle protein GvpF 
from Microcystis aeruginosa PCC 7806 is reported at 2.7 Å resolution. GvpF is 
composed of two structurally distinct domains (the N-domain and C-domain), both 
of which display an α+β class overall structure. The N-domain adopts a novel 
fold, whereas the C-domain has a modified ferredoxin fold with an apparent 
variation owing to an extension region consisting of three sequential helices. 
The two domains pack against each other via interactions with a C-terminal tail 
that is conserved among cyanobacteria. Taken together, it is concluded that the 
overall architecture of GvpF presents a novel fold. Moreover, it is shown that 
GvpF is most likely to be a structural protein that is localized at the 
gas-facing surface of the gas vesicle by immunoblotting and immunogold 
labelling-based tomography.

DOI: 10.1107/S1399004714021312
PMID: 25372690 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


792. J Insect Sci. 2014 Mar 1;14:34. doi: 10.1093/jis/14.1.34.

Life table and consumption capacity of corn earworm, Helicoverpa armigera, fed 
asparagus, Asparagus officinalis.

Jha RK(1), Tuan SJ(2), Chi H(3), Tang LC(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Entomology, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, 
Taiwan, Republic of China Plant Protection Directorate, Department of 
Agriculture, Hariharbhawan, Lalitpur, Nepal jharatna@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Entomology, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, 
Taiwan, Republic of China sjtuan@dragon.nchu.edu.tw.
(3)Department of Entomology, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, 
Taiwan, Republic of China hsinchi@dragon.nchu.edu.tw.
(4)Department of Entomology, National Chung Hsing University, Taichung 402, 
Taiwan, Republic of China lctang@dragon.nchu.edu.tw.

The life table and consumption rate of Helicoverpa armigera (Hübner) 
(Lepidoptera: Noctuidae) reared on asparagus, Asparagus officinalis L. 
(Asparagales: Asparagaceae) were studied under laboratory conditions to assess 
their interaction. Development, survival, fecundity, and consumption data were 
analyzed by the age-stage, twosex life table. This study indicated that 
asparagus is a natural host of H. armigera. However, the poor nutritional 
content in asparagus foliage and the poor fitness of H. armigera that fed on 
asparagus indicated that asparagus is a suboptimal host in comparison to hybrid 
sweet corn. The uncertainty associated with life table parameters was estimated 
by using jackknife and bootstrap techniques, and the results were compared for 
statistical inference. The intrinsic rate of increase (r), finite rate of 
increase (λ), net reproductive rate (R0), and mean generation time (T) were 
estimated by the jackknife technique to be 0.0780 day(-1), 1.0811 day(-1), 67.4 
offspring, and 54.8 days, respectively, while those estimated by the bootstrap 
technique were 0.0752 day(-1), 1.0781 day(-1), 68.0 offspring, and 55.3 days, 
respectively. The net consumption rate of H. armigera, as estimated by the 
jackknife and bootstrap technique, was 1183.02 and 1132.9 mg per individual, 
respectively. The frequency distribution of sample means obtained by the 
jackknife technique failed the normality test, while the bootstrap results fit 
the normal distribution well. By contrast, the relationship between the mean 
fecundity and the net reproductive rate, as estimated by the bootstrap 
technique, was slightly inconsistent with the relationship found by mathematical 
proof. The application of the jackknife and bootstrap techniques in estimating 
population parameters requires further examination.

This is an open access paper. We use the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 
license that permits unrestricted use, provided that the paper is properly 
attributed.

DOI: 10.1093/jis/14.1.34
PMCID: PMC4206235
PMID: 25373181 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


793. J Insect Sci. 2014 Mar 20;14:42. doi: 10.1093/jis/14.1.42.

Comparative life tables of the potato tuberworm, Phthorimaea operculella, on 
leaves and tubers of different potato cultivars.

Golizadeh A(1), Esmaeili N(2), Razmjou J(3), Rafiee-Dastjerdi H(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of 
Mohaghegh Ardabili, P.O.Box 179, Ardabil,Iran golizadeh@uma.ac.ir.
(2)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of 
Mohaghegh Ardabili, P.O.Box 179, Ardabil,Iran naderesmaeili60@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of 
Mohaghegh Ardabili, P.O.Box 179, Ardabil,Iran razmjou@uma.ac.ir.
(4)Department of Plant Protection, Faculty of Agriculture, University of 
Mohaghegh Ardabili, P.O.Box 179, Ardabil,Iran hooshangra@yahoo.com.

The potato tuberworm, Phthorimaea operculella Zeller (Lepidoptera: Gelechiidae), 
is a serious pest of the potato, Solanum tuberosum L. (Solanales: Solanaceae), 
in both fields and stores in tropical and subtropical regions. In the present 
study, the susceptibility of different potato cultivars to P. operculella was 
evaluated by measuring life table parameters. Tests were undertaken with leaves 
and tubers of 10 potato cultivars in the laboratory: Agria, Agata, Almera, 
Arinda, Baneba, Fiana, Marfona, Ramus, Satina, and Volvox. All parameters showed 
significant differences among tested cultivars. The longest mean generation 
times were observed on Marfona and Satina cultivars in the experiments on potato 
leaves and tubers, respectively. The lowest reproductive rate was observed on 
leaves and tubers of Marfona cultivar. Correspondingly, the lowest values of 
intrinsic rate of increase and the lowest finite rate of increase were also 
obtained on Marfona cultivar in tests on potato leaves and tubers. The highest 
intrinsic rate of incrase values were observed on Arinda and Baneba in the tests 
on leaves and tubers, respectively. The intrinsic rates of increase were 
significantly higher on potato leaves than on potato tubers. The lower 
performance of P. operculella on Marfona cultivar indicated that this cultivar 
is relatively less susceptible this pest and could be used in integrated pest 
management programs of P. operculella.

This is an open access paper. We use the Creative Commons Attribution 3.0 
license that permits unrestricted use, provided that the paper is properly 
attributed.

DOI: 10.1093/jis/14.1.42
PMCID: PMC4206232
PMID: 25373189 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


794. Planta. 2015 Feb;241(2):475-88. doi: 10.1007/s00425-014-2196-x. Epub 2014
Nov 6.

Differential protein expression profiling of Arabidopsis thaliana callus under 
microgravity on board the Chinese SZ-8 spacecraft.

Zhang Y(1), Wang L, Xie J, Zheng H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Plant Physiology and Ecology, Shanghai Institutes for Biological 
Sciences, Chinese Academy of Sciences, 300 Fenglin Road, Shanghai, 200032, 
China.

Exposure of Arabidopsis callus to microgravity has a significant impact on the 
expression of proteins involved in stress responses, carbohydrate metabolism, 
protein synthesis, intracellular trafficking, signaling, and cell wall 
biosynthesis. Microgravity is among the main environmental stress factors that 
affect plant growth and development in space. Understanding how plants acclimate 
to space microgravity is important to develop bioregenerative life-support 
systems for long-term space missions. To evaluate the spaceflight-associated 
stress and identify molecular events important for acquired microgravity 
tolerance, we compared proteomic profiles of Arabidopsis thaliana callus grown 
under microgravity on board the Chinese spacecraft SZ-8 with callus grown under 
1g centrifugation (1g control) in space. Alterations in the proteome induced by 
microgravity were analyzed by high performance liquid 
chromatography-electrospray ionization-tandem mass spectrometry with isobaric 
tags for relative and absolute quantitation labeling. Forty-five proteins showed 
significant (p < 0.05) and reproducible quantitative differences in expression 
between the microgravity and 1g control conditions. Of these proteins, the 
expression level of 24 proteins was significantly up-regulated and that of 21 
proteins was significantly down-regulated. The functions of these proteins were 
involved in a wide range of cellular processes, including general stress 
responses, carbohydrate metabolism, protein synthesis/degradation, intracellular 
trafficking/transportation, signaling, and cell wall biosynthesis. Several 
proteins not previously known to be involved in the response to microgravity or 
gravitational stimuli, such as pathogenesis-related thaumatin-like protein, 
leucine-rich repeat extension-like protein, and temperature-induce lipocalin, 
were significantly up- or down-regulated by microgravity. The results imply that 
either the normal gravity-response signaling is affected by microgravity 
exposure or that microgravity might inappropriately induce altered responses to 
other environmental stresses.

DOI: 10.1007/s00425-014-2196-x
PMID: 25374148 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


795. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2014;15(20):8993-9004. doi: 
10.7314/apjcp.2014.15.20.8993.

Economic evaluation and budget impact analysis of the surveillance program for 
hepatocellular carcinoma in Thai chronic hepatitis B patients.

Sangmala P(1), Chaikledkaew U, Tanwandee T, Pongchareonsuk P.

Author information:
(1)Social and Administrative Pharmacy Excellence Research (SAPER) Unit, 
Department of Pharmacy, Faculty of Pharmacy, Mahidol University, Bangkok, 
Thailand E-mail : usa.chi@mahidol.ac.th.

BACKGROUND: The incidence rate and the treatment costs of hepatocellular 
carcinoma (HCC) are high, especially in Thailand. Previous studies indicated 
that early detection by a surveillance program could help by down-staging. This 
study aimed to compare the costs and health outcomes associated with the 
introduction of a HCC surveillance program with no program and to estimate the 
budget impact if the HCC surveillance program were implemented.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A cost utility analysis using a decision tree and Markov 
models was used to compare costs and outcomes during the lifetime period based 
on a societal perspective between alternative HCC surveillance strategies with 
no program. Costs included direct medical, direct non-medical, and indirect 
costs. Health outcomes were measured as life years (LYs), and quality adjusted 
life years (QALYs). The results were presented in terms of the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) in Thai THB per QALY gained. One- way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were applied to investigate parameter 
uncertainties. Budget impact analysis (BIA) was performed based on the 
governmental perspective.
RESULTS: Semi-annual ultrasonography (US) and semi-annual ultrasonography plus 
alpha-fetoprotein (US plus AFP) as the first screening for HCC surveillance 
would be cost-effective options at the willingness to pay (WTP) threshold of 
160,000 THB per QALY gained compared with no surveillance program (ICER=118,796 
and ICER=123,451 THB/QALY), respectively. The semi-annual US plus AFP yielded 
more net monetary benefit, but caused a substantially higher budget (237 to 502 
million THB) than semi-annual US (81 to 201 million THB) during the next ten 
fiscal years.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggested that a semi-annual US program should be used 
as the first screening for HCC surveillance and included in the benefit package 
of Thai health insurance schemes for both chronic hepatitis B males and females 
aged between 40-50 years. In addition, policy makers considered the program 
could be feasible, but additional evidence is needed to support the whole 
prevention system before the implementation of a strategic plan.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2014.15.20.8993
PMID: 25374242 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


796. Intest Res. 2014 Oct;12(4):275-80. doi: 10.5217/ir.2014.12.4.275. Epub 2014
Oct  27.

Would you recommend screening colonoscopy for the very elderly?

Cha JM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Kyung Hee University Hospital at Gang Dong, 
Kyung Hee University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

Life expectancy in Korea has increased, and the number of screening 
colonoscopies in the elderly has also dramatically increased. The net benefit of 
colonoscopy in the very elderly (≥80 years of age as defined by the World Health 
Organization) may be reduced because of the competing risk of mortality due to 
other diseases. Therefore, the decision to perform screening colonoscopy may be 
more complex in this age group. As the potential increase in life expectancy due 
to screening colonoscopy is significantly reduced in the very elderly, this 
procedure should be limited to those among the very elderly who have substantial 
life expectancies. Furthermore, considering the common major complications 
associated with colonoscopy, poor bowel preparation, and the possibility of 
incomplete colonoscopies in the very elderly, the performance of screening 
colonoscopy in the very elderly may not be an ideal recommendation. In terms of 
providing the greatest benefit to the most number of people, patients with the 
highest potential gain in terms of life expectancy, relative to the diagnostic 
yield, should be targeted for colonoscopy screening. This review addresses the 
unique considerations regarding screening colonoscopy in the very elderly and 
the individualized approach, which involves the weighing of the risks and 
benefits for each individual with consideration of their overall health status.

DOI: 10.5217/ir.2014.12.4.275
PMCID: PMC4214953
PMID: 25374492

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None.


797. Case Reports Hepatol. 2014;2014:131708. doi: 10.1155/2014/131708. Epub 2014
Jul  20.

Liver metastases of unknown primary: malignant melanoma.

Bostanci O(1), Kartal K(1), Battal M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Surgery, Sisli Etfal Training and Research Hospital, 
Istanbul 34371, Turkey.

According to the National Cancer Institute's (NCI) data, the increase in the 
number of patients diagnosed with malignant melanoma was found to be at a higher 
rate than the current increase in all other types of cancer (Jemal et al., 
2008). Early diagnosis, appropriate surgical treatment, and chemotherapy have 
positive impacts on the course of the disease but despite these developments on 
the treatment, current prognosis of metastatic malignant melanoma prognosis is 
still extremely poor. Life expectancy in patients with metastatic disease is 
between 2 and 8 months. The 5-year disease-free survival rate is identified in 
only 5% of the patients (Leong, 2003) (Kirkwood et al., 1996). In this study, we 
try to report a patient with metastatic malignant melanoma and give recent 
informations about the liver metastases of malignant melanoma.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/131708
PMCID: PMC4207601
PMID: 25374724


798. Phys Rev E Stat Nonlin Soft Matter Phys. 2014 Oct;90(4):042301. doi: 
10.1103/PhysRevE.90.042301. Epub 2014 Oct 1.

Collective excitations in soft-sphere fluids.

Bryk T(1), Gorelli F(2), Ruocco G(3), Santoro M(2), Scopigno T(3).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Condensed Matter Physics of the National Academy of Sciences of 
Ukraine, 1 Svientsitskii Street, UA-79011 Lviv, Ukraine and Institute of Applied 
Mathematics and Fundamental Sciences, Lviv Polytechnic National University, 
79013 Lviv, Ukraine.
(2)Istituto Nazionale di Ottica INO-CNR, I-50019 Sesto Fiorentino, Italy and 
European Laboratory for Non Linear Spectroscopy, LENS, I-50019 Sesto Fiorentino, 
Italy.
(3)Dipartimento di Fisica, Universita di Roma La Sapienza, I-00185, Roma, Italy 
and Center for Life Nano Science @Sapienza, Istituto Italiano di Tecnologia, 295 
Viale Regina Elena, I-00161, Roma, Italy.

Despite that the thermodynamic distinction between a liquid and the 
corresponding gas ceases to exist at the critical point, it has been recently 
shown that reminiscence of gaslike and liquidlike behavior can be identified in 
the supercritical fluid region, encoded in the behavior of hypersonic waves 
dispersion. By using a combination of molecular dynamics simulations and 
calculations within the approach of generalized collective modes, we provide an 
accurate determination of the dispersion of longitudinal and transverse 
collective excitations in soft-sphere fluids. Specifically, we address the 
decreasing rigidity upon density reduction along an isothermal line, showing 
that the positive sound dispersion, an excess of sound velocity over the 
hydrodynamic limit typical for dense liquids, displays a nonmonotonic density 
dependence strictly correlated to that of thermal diffusivity and kinematic 
viscosity. This allows rationalizing recent observation parting the 
supercritical state based on the Widom line, i.e., the extension of the 
coexistence line. Remarkably, we show here that the extremals of transport 
properties such as thermal diffusivity and kinematic viscosity provide a robust 
definition for the boundary between liquidlike and gaslike regions, even in 
those systems without a liquid-gas binodal line. Finally, we discuss these 
findings in comparison with recent results for Lennard-Jones model fluid and 
with the notion of the "rigid-nonrigid" fluid separation lines.

DOI: 10.1103/PhysRevE.90.042301
PMID: 25375488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


799. Exp Clin Transplant. 2016 Apr;14(2):227-9. doi: 10.6002/ect.2014.0100. Epub
2014  Nov 5.

Anesthesia Management in Aortic Dissection in Patients Undergoing Kidney 
Transplant.

Ucar M(1), Erdil F, Sanlı M, Aydogan MS, Durmus M.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Anesthesiology and Reanimation, Inonu University, 
Faculty of Medicine, Malatya, Turkey.

Kidney transplant is a last resort to increase the life expectancy and quality 
of life in patients with renal failure. Aortic dissection is a disease that 
requires emergency intervention; it is characterized by sudden life-threatening 
back or abdominal pain. In the case described, constant chest pain that 
increased with respiration was present on examination of a 28-year-old man (85 
kg, 173 cm) who presented at our emergency department complaining of severe back 
pain. He had undergone a kidney transplant in 2004 from his mother (live donor). 
He was diagnosed with acute Type II aortic dissection and was scheduled for 
emergent surgery. Because there were no surgical or anesthetic complications, 
the patient with 79 and 89 minutes aortic cross-clamping and cardiopulmonary 
bypass durations was sent, intubated, to intensive care unit. When nephrotoxic 
agents are avoided and blood flow is stabilized, cardiovascular surgery with 
cardio-pulmonary bypass may be performed seamlessly in patients who have 
undergone a kidney transplant.

DOI: 10.6002/ect.2014.0100
PMID: 25375956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


800. J Psychiatr Ment Health Nurs. 2015 Feb;22(1):15-9. doi: 10.1111/jpm.12166.
Epub  2014 Nov 7.

Metabolic syndrome in mental health and addiction treatment: a quantitative 
study.

Flynn M(1), Houtjes W, Merks A, van Mierlo A, van de Wetering B.

Author information:
(1)Community Care Team FACT Feijenoord, Bouman GGZ, Institute for Addictions and 
Mental Health Care, Rotterdam, Netherlands.

Patients with mental illnesses have been found to shorter life expectancy due to 
an increased risk of heart disease. Some medication used to treat mental 
illnesses have been linked to weight gain and other physical change that make 
patients susceptible to heart disease. In order to reduce this risk it is 
important that health professionals regularly measure and monitor signs of these 
physical changes. This research has found that measuring both waist 
circumference and blood pressure of patients is a safe and reliable way to way 
to monitor patients. To identify if combined blood pressure and waist 
circumference measurements are reliable predictor of metabolic syndrome, a 
descriptive correlational design was used to examine the sensitivity and 
specificity of screening techniques used to detect metabolic syndrome. Data were 
collected regarding waist circumference, body mass index, blood pressure, 
fasting blood glucose, triglycerides and high-density lipoproteins. Blood 
pressure and waist circumference measurements demonstrated high significance, 
sensitivity and specificity as screening instruments for metabolic syndrome. 
Combined waist circumference and blood pressure measurements may be clinically 
useful for a quick and reliable detection of metabolic syndrome in patients with 
addiction and comorbid mental health problems.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jpm.12166
PMID: 25376964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


801. Crit Care Med. 2015 Feb;43(2):382-93. doi: 10.1097/CCM.0000000000000711.

Methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus prevention strategies in the ICU: a 
clinical decision analysis*.

Ziakas PD(1), Zacharioudakis IM, Zervou FN, Mylonakis E.

Author information:
(1)1Infectious Diseases Division, Rhode Island Hospital, Providence, RI. 2Warren 
Alpert Medical School of Brown University, Providence, RI.

Comment in
    Crit Care Med. 2015 Feb;43(2):496-7.

OBJECTIVES: ICUs are a major reservoir of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus 
aureus. Our aim was to estimate costs and effectiveness of methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus prevention policies.
DESIGN AND INTERVENTIONS: We evaluated three up-to-date methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus prevention policies, namely, 1) nasal screening and 
contact precautions of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus-positive 
patients; 2) nasal screening, contact precautions, and decolonization (targeted 
decolonization) of methicillin-resistant Staphylococcus aureus carriers; and 3) 
universal decolonization without screening. We implemented a decision-analytic 
model with deterministic and probabilistic analyses. Methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus infections averted, quality-adjusted life years gained, 
and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated. Cost-effectiveness 
planes and acceptability curves were plotted for various willingness-to-pay 
thresholds to address uncertainty.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: At base-case scenario, universal decolonization 
was the dominant strategy; it averted 1.31% and 1.59% of methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus infections over targeted decolonization and screening and 
contact precautions, respectively, and saved $16,203/quality-adjusted life year 
over targeted decolonization and 14,562/quality-adjusted life year over 
screening and contact precautions. Results were robust in sensitivity analysis 
for a wide range of input variables. In probabilistic analysis, universal 
decolonization increased quality-adjusted life years by 1.06% (95% CI, 
1.02-1.09) over targeted decolonization and by 1.29% (95% CI, 1.24-1.33) over 
screening and contact precautions; universal decolonization resulted in average 
savings of $172 (95% CI, $168-$175) and $189 (95% CI, $185-$193) over targeted 
decolonization and screening and contact precautions, respectively. With 
willingness-to-pay threshold per quality-adjusted life year gained ranging from 
$0 to $50,000, universal decolonization was dominant over targeted 
decolonization in 67.5-75.4% and dominant over screening and contact precautions 
in 66.0-75.4%.
CONCLUSIONS: In the ICU setting, universal decolonization outperforms the other 
two strategies and is likely to be cost-effective even at low willingness-to-pay 
thresholds. Assuming 700 annual ICU admissions in an average 12-bed ICU, the 
projected annual savings reach $129,500 to $135,100.

DOI: 10.1097/CCM.0000000000000711
PMID: 25377019 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


802. Glob Health Action. 2014 Oct 29;7:25365. doi: 10.3402/gha.v7.25365.
eCollection  2014.

Adult non-communicable disease mortality in Africa and Asia: evidence from 
INDEPTH Health and Demographic Surveillance System sites.

Streatfield PK(1), Khan WA(2), Bhuiya A(3), Hanifi SM(3), Alam N(4), Bagagnan 
CH(5), Sié A(5), Zabré P(5), Lankoandé B(6), Rossier C(6), Soura AB(6), Bonfoh 
B(7), Kone S(7), Ngoran EK(8), Utzinger J(9), Haile F(10), Melaku YA(10), 
Weldearegawi B(10), Gomez P(11), Jasseh M(11), Ansah P(12), Debpuur C(12), Oduro 
A(12), Wak G(12), Adjei A(13), Gyapong M(14), Sarpong D(14), Kant S(15), Misra 
P(15), Rai SK(15), Juvekar S(16), Lele P(16), Bauni E(17), Mochamah G(17), Ndila 
C(17), Williams TN(18), Laserson KF(19), Nyaguara A(19), Odhiambo FO(19), 
Phillips-Howard P(19), Ezeh A(20), Kyobutungi C(20), Oti S(20), Crampin A(21), 
Nyirenda M(22), Price A(21), Delaunay V(23), Diallo A(23), Douillot L(23), 
Sokhna C(23), Gómez-Olivé FX(24), Kahn K(25), Tollman SM(25), Herbst K(26), 
Mossong J(27), Chuc NT(28), Bangha M(29), Sankoh OA(30), Byass P(31).

Author information:
(1)Matlab HDSS, Bangladesh; International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease 
Research, Bangladesh; INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana.
(2)International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, Bangladesh; INDEPTH 
Network, Accra, Ghana; Bandarban HDSS, Bangladesh.
(3)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Chakaria HDSS, Bangladesh; Centre for Equity 
and Health Systems, International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease Research, 
Bangladesh.
(4)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; AMK HDSS, Bangladesh; Centre for Population, 
Urbanisation and Climate Change, International Centre for Diarrhoeal Disease 
Research, Bangladesh.
(5)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Nouna HDSS, Burkina Faso; Nouna Health 
Research Centre, Nouna, Burkina Faso.
(6)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Ouagadougou HDSS, Burkina Faso; Institut 
Supérieur des Sciences de la Population, Université de Ouagadougou, Burkina Faso 
and Institut d'Études Démographique et du parcours de vie, Université de Genève, 
Geneva, Switzerland.
(7)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Taabo HDSS, Côte d'Ivoire; , Centre Suisse de 
Recherches Scientifiques en Côte d'Ivoire, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(8)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Taabo HDSS, Côte d'Ivoire; , Université Félix 
Houphoët-Boigny, Abidjan, Côte d'Ivoire.
(9)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Taabo HDSS, Côte d'Ivoire; , Swiss Tropical 
and Public Health Institute, Basel, Switzerland.
(10)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Kilite-Awlaelo HDSS, Ethiopia; Department of 
Public Health, College of Health Sciences, Mekelle University, Mekelle, 
Ethiopia.
(11)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Farafenni HDSS, The Gambia; Medical Research 
Council, The Gambia Unit, Fajara, The Gambia.
(12)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Navrongo HDSS, Ghana; Navrongo Health 
Research Centre, Navrongo, Ghana.
(13)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Dodowa HDSS, Ghana; Dodowa Health Research 
Centre, Dodowa, Ghana.
(14)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Dodowa HDSS, Ghana; Ballabgarh HDSS, India.
(15)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Ballabgarh HDSS, India; All India Institute 
of Medical Sciences, New Delhi, India.
(16)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Vadu HDSS, India; Vadu Rural Health Program, 
KEM Hospital Research Centre, Pune, India.
(17)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Kilifi HDSS, Kenya; KEMRI-Wellcome Trust 
Research Programme, Kilifi, Kenya.
(18)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Kilifi HDSS, Kenya; KEMRI-Wellcome Trust 
Research Programme, Kilifi, Kenya; Department of Medicine, Imperial College, St. 
Mary's Hospital, London, United Kingdom.
(19)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Kisumu HDSS, Kenya; KEMRI/CDC Research and 
Public Health Collaboration and KEMRI Center for Global Health Research, Kisumu, 
Kenya.
(20)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Nairobi HDSS, Kenya; African Population and 
Health Research Center, Nairobi, Kenya.
(21)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Karonga HDSS, Malawi; Karonga Prevention 
Study, Chilumba, Malawi; London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, London, 
United Kingdom.
(22)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Karonga HDSS, Malawi; Karonga Prevention 
Study, Chilumba, Malawi.
(23)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Niakhar HDSS, Senegal; Institut de Recherche 
pour le Developpement (IRD), Dakar, Sénégal.
(24)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Agincourt HDSS, South Africa; MRC/Wits Rural 
Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit (Agincourt), School of Public 
Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg, South Africa.
(25)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Agincourt HDSS, South Africa; MRC/Wits Rural 
Public Health and Health Transitions Research Unit (Agincourt), School of Public 
Health, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg, South Africa; Umeå Centre for Global Health Research, Umeå 
University, Umeå, Sweden.
(26)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Africa Centre HDSS, South Africa; Africa 
Centre for Health and Population Studies, University of KwaZulu-Natal, Somkhele, 
KwaZulu-Natal, South Africa.
(27)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; Africa Centre HDSS, South Africa; National 
Health Laboratory, Surveillance & Epidemiology of Infectious Diseases, 
Dudelange, Luxembourg.
(28)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; FilaBavi HDSS, Vietnam; Health System 
Research, Hanoi Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam.
(29)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana.
(30)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; School of Public Health, Faculty of Health 
Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa; Hanoi 
Medical University, Hanoi, Vietnam; osman.sankoh@indepth-network.org.
(31)INDEPTH Network, Accra, Ghana; MRC/Wits Rural Public Health and Health 
Transitions Research Unit (Agincourt), School of Public Health, Faculty of 
Health Sciences, University of the Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa; 
WHO Collaborating Centre for Verbal Autopsy, Umeå Centre for Global Health 
Research, Umeå University, Umeå, Sweden.

BACKGROUND: Mortality from non-communicable diseases (NCDs) is a major global 
issue, as other categories of mortality have diminished and life expectancy has 
increased. The World Health Organization's Member States have called for a 25% 
reduction in premature NCD mortality by 2025, which can only be achieved by 
substantial reductions in risk factors and improvements in the management of 
chronic conditions. A high burden of NCD mortality among much older people, who 
have survived other hazards, is inevitable. The INDEPTH Network collects 
detailed individual data within defined Health and Demographic Surveillance 
sites. By registering deaths and carrying out verbal autopsies to determine 
cause of death across many such sites, using standardised methods, the Network 
seeks to generate population-based mortality statistics that are not otherwise 
available.
OBJECTIVE: To describe patterns of adult NCD mortality from INDEPTH Network 
sites across Africa and Asia, according to the WHO 2012 verbal autopsy (VA) 
cause categories, with separate consideration of premature (15-64 years) and 
older (65+ years) NCD mortality.
DESIGN: All adult deaths at INDEPTH sites are routinely registered and followed 
up with VA interviews. For this study, VA archives were transformed into the WHO 
2012 VA standard format and processed using the InterVA-4 model to assign cause 
of death. Routine surveillance data also provide person-time denominators for 
mortality rates.
RESULTS: A total of 80,726 adult (over 15 years) deaths were documented over 
7,423,497 person-years of observation. NCDs were attributed as the cause for 
35.6% of these deaths. Slightly less than half of adult NCD deaths occurred in 
the 15-64 age group. Detailed results are presented by age and sex for leading 
causes of NCD mortality. Per-site rates of NCD mortality were significantly 
correlated with rates of HIV/AIDS-related mortality.
CONCLUSIONS: These findings present important evidence on the distribution of 
NCD mortality across a wide range of African and Asian settings. This comes 
against a background of global concern about the burden of NCD mortality, 
especially among adults aged under 70, and provides an important baseline for 
future work.

DOI: 10.3402/gha.v7.25365
PMCID: PMC4220128
PMID: 25377326 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


803. Age Ageing. 2015 May;44(3):428-34. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afu177. Epub 2014 Nov
6.

Body mass index and health service utilisation in the older population: results 
from The Irish Longitudinal Study on Ageing.

Mc Hugh S(1), O'Neill C(2), Browne J(1), Kearney PM(1).

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Public Health, University College Cork, 4th Floor, Western 
Gateway Building Western Road, Cork, Ireland.
(2)School of Business and Economics, National University of Ireland Galway, 
Galway, Ireland.

BACKGROUND: obesity is associated with higher healthcare costs in older people; 
however, estimates are predominantly based on the use of primary and secondary 
services. Our objective was to estimate the effect of overweight and obesity on 
the use and cost of allied health services among middle-aged and older people.
METHODS: the study used data from The Irish Longitudinal Study of Ageing 
(TILDA), a nationally representative study of adults aged ≥50 sampled using 
multistage stratified clustered sampling, which included objective measures of 
height and weight. Body mass index was categorised as normal (18.5-24.99 
kg/m(2)), overweight (25.00-29.99 kg/m(2)), moderate obesity (30.00-34.99 
kg/m(2)), severe obesity (35.00-39.99 kg/m(2)) or morbid obesity (≥40 kg/m(2)). 
Participants were asked about a range of allied health services including 
dietetic services, public health nurse visits, chiropody and home help. Adjusted 
seemingly unrelated biprobit models were used to account for unobserved 
heterogeneity associated with the use of services.
RESULTS: among 5,841 participants, 77.6% (95% CI = 76-79%) were overweight or 
obese (n = 4,534). All classes of obesity were significantly associated with 
higher general practitioner service use (P < 0.05). Moderate and severe obesity 
were associated with increased use of out-patient services, while only moderate 
obesity was associated with increased hospital admissions (P < 0.05). Moderate 
and severe obesity were significantly associated with chiropody service use (P < 
0.05) with an estimated annual cost of €919,662. Morbid obesity was associated 
with dietetic service use (P < 0.001) with an annual cost of €580,013.
CONCLUSION: given these costs and improvements in life expectancy, an 
increasingly obese older population presents new challenges for healthcare 
delivery.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afu177
PMID: 25377743 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


804. Chirality. 2015 Feb;27(2):137-41. doi: 10.1002/chir.22402. Epub 2014 Nov 6.

Enantioselective degradation of chiral insecticide dinotefuran in greenhouse 
cucumber and soil.

Chen X(1), Dong F, Xu J, Liu X, Wang Y, Zheng Y.

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, 
Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing, P.R. China; Shanghai Agriculture Technology Extension and Service 
Center, Shanghai, P.R. China.

The enantioselective degradation behavior of the chiral insecticide dinotefuran 
in cucumber and soil was investigated under greenhouse conditions based on the 
method established with a normal-phase high-performance chromatography (HPLC) on 
a ChromegaChiral CCA column (250 × 4.6 mm, 5 µm, ES Industries). The linearity 
range, matrix effect, precision, and accuracy of the method were evaluated and 
the method was then successfully applied for the enantioselective analysis of 
dinotefuran in cucumber and soil. Significant enantioselectivity of degradation 
was observed in soil according to the results. The (+)-dinotefuran was more 
persistent in soil with half-life of 21.7 d, which is much longer than that of 
(-)-dinotefuran (16.5 d). In cucumber, the (-)-dinotefuran also tended to be 
preferentially degraded both in foliar and douche treatment. However, the 
statistical analysis indicated the enantioselectivity of degradation in cucumber 
was not significant. The research provides the first report concerning the 
enantioselective degradation of dinotefuran enantiomers and the results can be 
used for understanding the insect-controlling effect and food safety evaluation.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/chir.22402
PMID: 25378099 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


805. Pediatr Radiol. 2015 Apr;45(4):570-81. doi: 10.1007/s00247-014-3197-4. Epub
2014  Nov 7.

Use of PET/CT instead of CT-only when planning for radiation therapy does not 
notably increase life years lost in children being treated for cancer.

Kornerup JS(1), Brodin P, Birk Christensen C, Björk-Eriksson T, Kiil-Berthelsen 
A, Borgwardt L, Munck Af Rosenschöld P.

Author information:
(1)Section of Radiotherapy, Department of Oncology, Rigshospitalet, Blegdamsvej 
9, 2100, Copenhagen, Denmark, josefine.staahl.kornerup@regionh.dk.

BACKGROUND: PET/CT may be more helpful than CT alone for radiation therapy 
planning, but the added risk due to higher doses of ionizing radiation is 
unknown.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the risk of cancer induction and mortality attributable 
to the [F-18]2-fluoro-2-deoxyglucose (FDG) PET and CT scans used for radiation 
therapy planning in children with cancer, and compare to the risks attributable 
to the cancer treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Organ doses and effective doses were estimated for 40 
children (2-18 years old) who had been scanned using PET/CT as part of radiation 
therapy planning. The risk of inducing secondary cancer was estimated using the 
models in BEIR VII. The prognosis of an induced cancer was taken into account 
and the reduction in life expectancy, in terms of life years lost, was estimated 
for the diagnostics and compared to the life years lost attributable to the 
therapy. Multivariate linear regression was performed to find predictors for a 
high contribution to life years lost from the radiation therapy planning 
diagnostics.
RESULTS: The mean contribution from PET to the effective dose from one PET/CT 
scan was 24% (range: 7-64%). The average proportion of life years lost 
attributable to the nuclear medicine dose component from one PET/CT scan was 15% 
(range: 3-41%). The ratio of life years lost from the radiation therapy planning 
PET/CT scans and that of the cancer treatment was on average 0.02 (range: 
0.01-0.09). Female gender was associated with increased life years lost from the 
scans (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSION: Using FDG-PET/CT instead of CT only when defining the target volumes 
for radiation therapy of children with cancer does not notably increase the 
number of life years lost attributable to diagnostic examinations.

DOI: 10.1007/s00247-014-3197-4
PMID: 25378209 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


806. Nucleic Acids Res. 2015 Jan;43(Database issue):D92-6. doi:
10.1093/nar/gku1111.  Epub 2014 Nov 6.

The Eukaryotic Promoter Database: expansion of EPDnew and new promoter analysis 
tools.

Dreos R(1), Ambrosini G(2), Périer RC(3), Bucher P(4).

Author information:
(1)Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (SIB), CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(2)Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (SIB), CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland Swiss 
Institute for Experimental Cancer Research (ISREC), School of Life Sciences, 
Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (EPFL), CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland.
(3)Swiss Institute for Experimental Cancer Research (ISREC), School of Life 
Sciences, Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (EPFL), CH-1015 Lausanne, 
Switzerland.
(4)Swiss Institute of Bioinformatics (SIB), CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland Swiss 
Institute for Experimental Cancer Research (ISREC), School of Life Sciences, 
Swiss Federal Institute of Technology (EPFL), CH-1015 Lausanne, Switzerland 
philipp.bucher@epfl.ch.

We present an update of EPDNew (http://epd.vital-it.ch), a recently introduced 
new part of the Eukaryotic Promoter Database (EPD) which has been described in 
more detail in a previous NAR Database Issue. EPD is an old database of 
experimentally characterized eukaryotic POL II promoters, which are conceptually 
defined as transcription initiation sites or regions. EPDnew is a collection of 
automatically compiled, organism-specific promoter lists complementing the old 
corpus of manually compiled promoter entries of EPD. This new part is 
exclusively derived from next generation sequencing data from high-throughput 
promoter mapping experiments. We report on the recent growth of EPDnew, its 
extension to additional model organisms and its improved integration with other 
bioinformatics resources developed by our group, in particular the Signal Search 
Analysis and ChIP-Seq web servers.

© The Author(s) 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gku1111
PMCID: PMC4383928
PMID: 25378343 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


807. Behav Sci (Basel). 2014 Jan 8;4(1):14-30. doi: 10.3390/bs4010014.
eCollection  2014 Mar.

Gender legacies of jung and freud as epistemology in emergent feminist research 
on late motherhood.

Barone-Chapman M(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Social Sciences, Cardiff University, Glamorgan Building, King 
Edward VII Avenue, Cardiff CF10 3WT, UK.

While conducting doctoral research in social science on late motherhood, two 
analytical engagements with the feminine came to my attention as evidence of a 
patriarchal bias toward the realm of womanhood. Jung's mythopoetic tension 
between symbolism and enactments with the feminine and Freud's supposition that 
a denial of the feminine was necessary for psychological and emotional 
development appeared to be perpetuating a social problem continuing in current 
times. Across affective behavior and narrative within stories of late 
procreative desire, dream journals and Word Association Tests of eight 
participants was the memory of a male sibling who had enjoyed primacy of place 
in the parental home over the daughter. The female body with a voice was missing 
in the one-sided perspectives of Analytical Psychology and Psychoanalysis on the 
subject of the feminine, until a whole view of psyche's discontents in Feminist 
inspired Psychoanalytic theories from both schools on the female body were 
included. Freud and Jung's views became evidence of patriarchy as background 
while extension of Feminist inspired psychoanalytical thinking, Queer theories 
and Creation Myth allowed new meanings of the embodied feminine to emerge 
through a recapitulation of a union of opposites as a union of epistemology and 
ethos. The essence of Jung's mid-life theories, altered by modernity and 
eclipsed by female advancement, remains replicatable and paradigmatic outside of 
essentialist gender performance.

DOI: 10.3390/bs4010014
PMCID: PMC4219252
PMID: 25379265


808. PLoS One. 2014 Nov 7;9(11):e112389. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112389. 
eCollection 2014.

A comparison between the EQ-5D and the SF-6D in patients with chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD).

Chen J(1), Wong CK(2), McGhee SM(1), Pang PK(3), Yu WC(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.
(2)Department of Family Medicine and Primary Care, The University of Hong Kong, 
Hong Kong, China.
(3)Department of Medicine and Geriatrics, Princess Margaret Hospital, Hong Kong, 
China.

BACKGROUND: The appropriate use of generic preference-based measures determines 
the accuracy of disease assessment and further decision on healthcare policy 
using quality adjusted life years. The discriminative capacity of different 
instruments would differ across disease groups. Our study was to examine the 
difference in utility scores for COPD patients measured by EQ-5D and SF-6D and 
to assist the choice of a proper instrument in this disease group.
METHODS: Differences of mean utility scores of EQ-5D and SF-6D in groups defined 
by socio-demographic characteristics, comorbidities, health service utilisation 
and severity of illness were tested using Mann-Whitney test, t-test, 
Kruskal-Wallis test, Pearson's correlation coefficient and ANOVA, as 
appropriate. The discriminative properties of the two instruments were compared 
against indicators of quality of life using receiver operating characteristic 
curves. The statistical significance of the area under the curves (AUC) was 
tested by ANOVA and F-statistics used to compare the efficiency with which each 
instrument discriminated between disease severity groups.
RESULTS: Mean utility scores of EQ-5D and SF-6D were 0.644 and 0.629 
respectively in the 154 subjects included in the analysis. EQ-5D scores were 
significantly higher than SF-6D in groups less severe and these differences 
corresponded to a minimally important difference of greater than 0.03 (p<0.001). 
EQ-5D and SF-6D scores were strongly correlated across the whole sample 
(r = 0.677, p<0.001) and in pre-defined groups (r>0.5 and p<0.05 for all 
correlation coefficients). AUCs were above 0.5 against the indicators of 
health-related quality of life for both instruments. F-ratios suggested SF-6D 
was more efficient in discriminating cases of different disease severity than 
EQ-5D.
CONCLUSIONS: Both EQ-5D and SF-6D appeared to be valid preference-based measures 
in Chinese COPD patients. SF-6D was more efficient in detecting differences 
among subgroups with differing health status. EQ-5D and SF-6D measured different 
things and might not be used interchangeably in COPD patients.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0112389
PMCID: PMC4224433
PMID: 25379673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


809. J Palliat Med. 2015 Feb;18(2):100-6. doi: 10.1089/jpm.2014.0130. Epub 2014
Nov  7.

Predictors of six-month mortality among nursing home residents: diagnoses may be 
more predictive than functional disability.

Levy C(1), Kheirbek R, Alemi F, Wojtusiak J, Sutton B, Williams AR, Williams A.

Author information:
(1)1 Denver Veteran Administration Medical Center , Denver, Colorado.

OBJECTIVE: Loss of daily living functions can be a marker for end of life and 
possible hospice eligibility. Unfortunately, data on patient's functional 
abilities is not available in all settings. In this study we compare predictive 
accuracy of two indices designed to predict 6-month mortality among nursing home 
residents. One is based on traditional measures of functional deterioration and 
the other on patients' diagnoses and demography.
METHODS: We created the Hospice ELigibility Prediction (HELP) Index by examining 
mortality of 140,699 Veterans Administration (VA) nursing home residents. For 
these nursing home residents, the available data on history of hospital 
admissions were divided into training (112,897 cases) and validation (27,832 
cases) sets. The training data were used to estimate the parameters of the HELP 
Index based on (1) diagnoses, (2) age on admission, and (3) number of diagnoses 
at admission. The validation data were used to assess the accuracy of 
predictions of the HELP Index. The cross-validated accuracy of the HELP Index 
was compared with the Barthel Index (BI) of functional ability obtained from 
296,052 VA nursing home residents. A receiver operating characteristic curve was 
used to examine sensitivity and specificity of the predicted odds of mortality.
RESULTS: The area under the curve (AUC) for the HELP Index was 0.838. This was 
significantly (α <0.01) higher than the AUC for the BI of 0.692.
CONCLUSIONS: For nursing home residents, comorbid diagnoses predict 6-month 
mortality more accurately than functional status. The HELP Index can be used to 
estimate 6-month mortality from hospital data and can guide prognostic 
discussions prior to and following nursing home admission.

DOI: 10.1089/jpm.2014.0130
PMID: 25380219 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


810. Transplant Proc. 2014 Oct;46(8):2592-7. doi:
10.1016/j.transproceed.2014.09.055.

Glomerular filtration rate estimation in prospective living kidney donors: 
preliminary study.

Gozdowska J(1), Urbanowicz A(2), Sadowska A(2), Bieniasz M(3), Wszoła M(3), 
Kieszek R(3), Domagała P(3), Kwiatkowski A(3), Chmura A(3), Durlik M(2).

Author information:
