telephone calls and telephone calls only in transitional discharge support.
DESIGN: cost-effectiveness analysis conducted alongside a randomised controlled 
trial (RCT).
PARTICIPANTS: patients discharged from medical units randomly assigned to 
control (control, N = 210), home visits with calls (home, N = 196) and calls 
only (call, N = 204).
METHODS: cost-effectiveness analyses were conducted from the societal 
perspective comparing monetary benefits and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) 
gained.
RESULTS: the home arm was less costly but less effective at 28 days and was 
dominating (less costly and more effective) at 84 days. The call arm was 
dominating at both 28 and 84 days. The incremental QALY for the home arm was 
-0.0002/0.0008 (28/84 days), and the call arm was 0.0022/0.0104 (28/84 days). 
When the three groups were compared, the call arm had a higher probability being 
cost-effective at 84 days but not at 28 days (home: 53%, call: 35% (28 days) 
versus home: 22%, call: 73% (84 days)) measuring against the NICE threshold of 
£20,000.
CONCLUSION: the original RCT showed that the bundled intervention involving home 
visits and calls was more effective than calls only in the reduction of hospital 
readmissions. This study adds a cost perspective to inform policymakers that 
both home visits and calls only are cost-effective for transitional care 
support, but calls only have a higher chance of being cost-effective for a 
sustained period after intervention.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afu166
PMCID: PMC4255617
PMID: 25355620 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. MMWR Suppl. 2014 Oct 31;63(4):3-27.

CDC National Health Report: leading causes of morbidity and mortality and 
associated behavioral risk and protective factors--United States, 2005-2013.

Johnson NB, Hayes LD, Brown K, Hoo EC, Ethier KA; Centers for Disease Control 
and Prevention (CDC).

PROBLEM: Although substantial progress has been made in improving the health of 
persons in the United States, serious problems remain to be solved. Life 
expectancy is increasing, and the rates of the leading causes of death are 
improving in many cases; however, numerous indicators (i.e., measures of 
observed or calculated data on the status of a condition) of the health and 
safety of the U.S. population remain poor. This report reviews population health 
in the United States and provides an assessment of recent progress in meeting 
high-priority health objectives. The health status indicators described in this 
report were selected because of their direct relation to the leading causes of 
death and other substantial sources of morbidity and mortality and should be the 
focus of prevention efforts.
REPORTING PERIOD COVERED: Data are reported starting in 2005 (or the earliest 
available year since 2005) through the current data year. Because data sources 
and specific indicators vary regarding when data are available, the most recent 
year for which data are available might range from 2010 to 2013.
DESCRIPTION OF THE SYSTEM: Data were obtained from 17 CDC surveys or 
surveillance systems and three non-CDC sources to provide a view of this 
particular point of time in the nation's health and trends in recent years. Data 
from the following CDC surveillance systems and surveys were used: Behavioral 
Risk Factor Surveillance System (BRFSS); Emerging Infections Program/Active 
Bacterial Core surveillance (EIP/ABCs); Foodborne Diseases Active Surveillance 
Network (FoodNet); Internet Panel Surveys: Influenza Vaccination Coverage Among 
Health-Care Personnel and Influenza Vaccination Coverage Among Pregnant Women; 
National Ambulatory Medical Care Survey (NAMCS); National Health and Nutrition 
Examination Survey (NHANES); National Health Interview Survey (NHIS); National 
Healthcare Safety Network (NHSN); National HIV Surveillance System; National 
Hospital Discharge Survey (NHDS); National Immunization Survey (NIS); National 
Immunization Survey-Teen (NIS-Teen); National Notifiable Disease Surveillance 
System (NNDSS); Nationally Notifiable STD Surveillance; National Vital 
Statistics System (NVSS); and Youth Risk Behavior Surveillance System (YRBSS). 
Three non-CDC sources were used: the Alcohol and Tobacco Tax and Trade Bureau 
Monthly Statistical Releases; the National Highway Traffic Safety Administration 
Fatality Analysis Reporting System (FARS); and the Substance Abuse and Mental 
Health Services Administration's National Survey on Drug Use and Health (NSDUH).
RESULTS: Since 2005, life expectancy at birth in the U.S. has increased by 1 
year; however, the number of persons who died prematurely was relatively 
constant. The years of potential life lost declined for eight of the 10 leading 
causes of death. Age-adjusted rates declined among all leading causes except 
deaths attributable to Alzheimer's disease and suicide, although the numbers of 
deaths increased for most causes. Heart disease, stroke, and deaths attributed 
to motor-vehicle injuries demonstrated notable declines since 2005. Numbers and 
rates increased for both Alzheimer's disease and suicide. The number of deaths 
from drug poisoning increased by approximately 11,000, and the number of deaths 
among older adults caused by falls increased by approximately 7,000. Risk and 
protective factors for these leading causes of death also showed mixed progress. 
Current smoking among adults remained stable at approximately 25% while smoking 
among youths declined to a record low of 15.7%. Obesity rates remained level at 
approximately 35% for adults and approximately 17% for youths. Approximately 21% 
of adults met recommended levels of physical activity, consistent with results 
recorded in the 3 previous years. Control of blood pressure and cholesterol 
increased to 46.3% and 29.5%, respectively. During the 2012-13 influenza season, 
vaccination rates reached highs of 72.0% for health-care personnel, 56.6% for 
children aged <17 years, 50.5% for pregnant women, and 41.5% for persons aged 
>18 years. Other important measures of the health of the U.S. population also 
varied. Rates of foodborne illness varied from year to year, with average annual 
increases for Salmonella and Salmonella serotype Enteritidis. Listeria rates 
were stable in recent years at 0.26 cases per 100,000 population. Shiga 
toxin-producing E. coli (STEC) O157 increased during the past 3 years to a rate 
of 1.15 cases per 100,000 population, even though the annual change for the 
study period noted an average decline overall. Health-care-associated infections 
declined, on average, for central-line associated bloodstream infections 
(CLABSI), surgical site infections (SSI), and Methicillin-resistant 
Staphylococcus aureus (MRSA) infection. The percentage of persons living with 
HIV who know their serostatus increased to 84.2%, but trends fluctuated for the 
number of new HIV infections and the rate of HIV transmission among adolescents 
and adults. Chlamydia rates increased by an average of 3.3% per year for persons 
aged 15-19 years and by 4.9% per year for women aged 20-24 years. The number of 
new cases of hepatitis C and hepatitis C-associated deaths increased by an 
average of 6.4% and 6.0% per year. Indictors of maternal and child health all 
improved, including historically low rates of infant mortality (6.1 per 1,000 
live births) and teen births (26.6 per 1,000 female population). The percentage 
of infants breastfed at 6 months increased to 49.4%. Among children aged 19-35 
months, 70.4% received the set of universally recommended vaccines, an increase 
of 2.9% from the previous year.
INTERPRETATION: The findings in this report indicate that progress has been 
steady but slow for many of the priority health issues in the United States. The 
age-adjusted rates for most of the leading causes of death are declining, but in 
some cases, the number of deaths is increasing, in part reflecting the growing 
U.S. population. Several protective factors that have registered substantial 
average increases (e.g., physical activity among adults, high blood pressure 
control, and human papillomavirus vaccination among adolescent females) have 
stalled in recent years. Many protective factors, even those with impressive 
relative gains, still represent only a minority of the U.S. population (e.g., 
control of high cholesterol at 29.5%). More data are needed to properly 
interpret fluctuating trends, such as those observed with the number of HIV 
infections and HIV transmission rates. Finally, some indicators of disease that 
appear to be increasing, such as chlamydia and hepatitis C, reflect increased 
efforts to engage in targeted screening but also suggest that the actual burden 
of infection is much greater than the reported data alone indicate.
PUBLIC HEALTH ACTION: Although not all-inclusive, this compilation highlights 
important health concerns, points to areas in which important success has been 
achieved, and highlights areas in which more effort is needed. By tracking 
progress, public health officials, program managers, and decision makers can 
better identify areas for improvement and institute policies and programs to 
improve health and the quality of life.

PMID: 25356673 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Eur J Health Econ. 2015 Dec;16(9):927-39. doi: 10.1007/s10198-014-0638-9.
Epub  2014 Oct 31.

EQ-5D in skin conditions: an assessment of validity and responsiveness.

Yang Y(1), Brazier J(2), Longworth L(3).

Author information:
(1)Nuffield Department of Primary Care Health Sciences, University of Oxford, 
New Radcliffe House, Walton Street, Oxford, OX2 6NW, UK. 
yaling.yang@phc.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Health Economics and Decision Science, School of Health and Related Research, 
University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(3)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University, Middlesex, UK.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: This systematic literature review aims to assess the 
reliability, validity and responsiveness of three widely used generic 
preference-based measures of health-related quality of life (HRQL), i.e., EQ-5D, 
Health Utility Index 3 (HUI3) and SF-6D in patients with skin conditions.
METHODS: A systematic search was conducted to identify studies reporting health 
state utility values obtained using EQ-5D, SF-6D, or HUI3 alongside other HRQL 
measures or clinical indices for patients with skin conditions. Data on 
test-retest analysis for reliability, known group differences or correlation and 
regression analyses for validity, and change over time or responsiveness indices 
analysis were extracted and reviewed.
RESULTS: A total of 16 papers reporting EQ-5D utilities in people with skin 
conditions were included in the final review. No papers for SF-6D and HUI3 were 
found. Evidence of reliability was not found for any of these measures. The 
majority of studies included in the review (12 out of 16) examined patients with 
plaque psoriasis or psoriatic arthritis and the remaining four studies examined 
patients with either acne, hidradenitis suppurativa, hand eczema, or venous leg 
ulcers. The findings were generally positive in terms of performance of EQ-5D. 
Six studies showed that EQ-5D was able to reflect differences between severity 
groups and only one reported differences that were not statistically 
significant. Four studies found that EQ-5D detected differences between patients 
and the general population, and differences were statistically different for 
three of them. Further, moderate-to-strong correlation coefficients were found 
between EQ-5D and other skin-specific HRQL measures in four studies. Eight 
studies showed that EQ-5D was able to detect change in HRQL appropriately over 
time and the changes were statistically significant in seven studies.
CONCLUSIONS: Overall, the validity and responsiveness of the EQ-5D was found to 
be good in people with skin diseases, especially plaque psoriasis or psoriatic 
arthritis. No evidence on SF-6D and HUI3 was available to enable any judgments 
to be made on their performance.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-014-0638-9
PMCID: PMC4646948
PMID: 25358263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. BMC Med. 2014 Oct 30;12:216. doi: 10.1186/s12916-014-0216-0.

How much is tuberculosis screening worth? Estimating the value of active case 
finding for tuberculosis in South Africa, China, and India.

Azman AS(1), Golub JE(2), Dowdy DW(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
615 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA. azman@jhu.edu.
(2)Center for Tuberculosis Research, Department of Medicine, Division of 
Infectious Diseases, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 1550 Orleans St., 
Baltimore, MD, 21231, USA. jgolub@jhmi.edu.
(3)Department of Epidemiology, Johns Hopkins Bloomberg School of Public Health, 
615 North Wolfe Street, Baltimore, MD, 21205, USA. ddowdy1@jhmi.edu.

BACKGROUND: Current approaches are unlikely to achieve the aggressive global 
tuberculosis (TB) control targets set for 2035 and beyond. Active case finding 
(ACF) may be an important tool for augmenting existing strategies, but the 
cost-effectiveness of ACF remains uncertain. Program evaluators can often 
measure the cost of ACF per TB case detected, but how this accessible measure 
translates into traditional metrics of cost-effectiveness, such as the cost per 
disability-adjusted life year (DALY), remains unclear.
METHODS: We constructed dynamic models of TB in India, China, and South Africa 
to explore the medium-term impact and cost-effectiveness of generic ACF 
activities, conceptualized separately as discrete (2-year) campaigns and as 
continuous activities integrated into ongoing TB control programs. Our primary 
outcome was the cost per DALY, measured in relationship to the cost per TB case 
actively detected and started on treatment.
RESULTS: Discrete campaigns costing up to $1,200 (95% uncertainty range [UR] 
850-2,043) per case actively detected and started on treatment in India, $3,800 
(95% UR 2,706-6,392) in China, and $9,400 (95% UR 6,957-13,221) in South Africa 
were all highly cost-effective (cost per DALY averted less than per capita gross 
domestic product). Prolonged integration was even more effective and 
cost-effective. Short-term assessments of ACF dramatically underestimated 
potential longer term gains; for example, an assessment of an ACF program at 
2 years might find a non-significant 11% reduction in prevalence, but a 10-year 
evaluation of that same intervention would show a 33% reduction.
CONCLUSIONS: ACF can be a powerful and highly cost-effective tool in the fight 
against TB. Given that short-term assessments may dramatically underestimate 
medium-term effectiveness, current willingness to pay may be too low. ACF should 
receive strong consideration as a basic tool for TB control in most high-burden 
settings, even when it may cost over $1,000 to detect and initiate treatment for 
each extra case of active TB.

DOI: 10.1186/s12916-014-0216-0
PMCID: PMC4224697
PMID: 25358459 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. J Clin Psychol Med Settings. 2014 Dec;21(4):297-312. doi: 
10.1007/s10880-014-9414-3.

Cognitive-behavioural therapy targeting fear of progression in an 
interdisciplinary care program: a case study in systemic sclerosis.

Kwakkenbos L(1), Willems LM, van den Hoogen FH, van Lankveld WG, Beenackers H, 
van Helmond TF, Becker ES, van den Ende CH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Rheumatology, Sint Maartenskliniek, Nijmegen, The Netherlands, 
kwakkenbosl@gmail.com.

People living with chronic illness often report uncertainty about the future, 
fear of disease progression, fear of becoming physically disabled, and a reduced 
life expectancy as important sources of stress. However, little is known about 
psychological interventions targeting these concerns. The aim of this study is 
to illustrate an intervention to reduce emotional distress and concerns about 
the future in a patient with systemic sclerosis (SSc), a rare chronic rheumatic 
disease with serious consequences for most patients, and to present a 
preliminary report on its effectiveness using a single-case study design. 
Because of the complexity of symptoms and complaints due to SSc, the 
psychological intervention was embedded in an interdisciplinary care program 
also consisting of physical therapy, occupational therapy, and specialized nurse 
care.

DOI: 10.1007/s10880-014-9414-3
PMID: 25358547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Health Promot Pract. 2014 Nov;15(2 Suppl):92S-102S. doi: 
10.1177/1524839914545168.

Cross-site evaluation of the Alliance to Reduce Disparities in Diabetes: 
clinical and patient-reported outcomes.

Lewis MA(1), Bann CM(2), Karns SA(2), Hobbs CL(2), Holt S(2), Brenner J(3), 
Fleming N(4), Johnson P(5), Langwell K(6), Peek ME(7), Burton JA(2), Hoerger 
TJ(2), Clark NM(8), Kamerow DB(9).

Author information:
(1)RTI International, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA melewis@rti.org.
(2)RTI International, Research Triangle Park, NC, USA.
(3)Cooper University Healthcare, Camden, NJ, USA.
(4)Baylor Scott & White Health, Dallas, TX, USA.
(5)Memphis Healthy Churches, Memphis, TN, USA.
(6)Sundance Research Institute, Sundance, WY, USA.
(7)University of Chicago, Chicago, IL, USA.
(8)University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, MI, USA.
(9)RTI International, Washington, DC, USA.

Alliance programs implemented multilevel, multicomponent programs inspired by 
the chronic care model and aimed at reducing health and health care disparities 
for program participants. A unique characteristic of the Alliance programs is 
that they did not use a fixed implementation strategy common to programs using 
the chronic care model but instead focused on strategies that met local 
community needs. Using data provided by the five programs involved in the 
Alliance, this evaluation shows that of the 1,827 participants for which 
baseline and follow-up data were available, the program participants experienced 
significant decreases in hemoglobin A1c and blood pressure compared with a 
comparison group. A significant time by study group interaction was observed for 
hemoglobin A1c as well. Over time, more program participants met quality 
indicators for hemoglobin A1c and blood pressure. Those participants who 
attended self-management classes and experienced more resources and support for 
self-management attained more benefit. In addition, program participants 
experienced more diabetes competence, increased quality of life, and 
improvements in diabetes self-care behaviors. The cost-effectiveness of programs 
ranged from $23,161 to $61,011 per quality-adjusted life year. In sum, the 
Alliance programs reduced disparities and health care disparities for program 
participants.

© 2014 Society for Public Health Education.

DOI: 10.1177/1524839914545168
PMCID: PMC4550084
PMID: 25359255 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. Health Technol Assess. 2014 Oct;18(67):1-296. doi: 10.3310/hta18670.

Clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness results from the randomised 
controlled Trial of Oral Mandibular Advancement Devices for Obstructive sleep 
apnoea-hypopnoea (TOMADO) and long-term economic analysis of oral devices and 
continuous positive airway pressure.

Sharples L(1), Glover M(2), Clutterbuck-James A(3), Bennett M(4), Jordan J(2), 
Chadwick R(3), Pittman M(3), East C(3), Cameron M(5), Davies M(3), Oscroft N(3), 
Smith I(3), Morrell M(6), Fox-Rushby J(2), Quinnell T(3).

Author information:
(1)University of Leeds Clinical Trials Research Unit, Leeds, UK.
(2)Health Economics Research Unit, Brunel University, Uxbridge, UK.
(3)Papworth Hospital NHS Foundation Trust, Papworth Everard, Cambridge, UK.
(4)Medical Research Council Biostatistics Unit, Cambridge, UK.
(5)Maxillofacial Unit, Addenbrooke's NHS Foundation Trust, Cambridge, UK.
(6)National Heart and Lung Institute, Imperial College London, London, UK.

BACKGROUND: Obstructive sleep apnoea-hypopnoea (OSAH) causes excessive daytime 
sleepiness (EDS), impairs quality of life (QoL) and increases cardiovascular 
disease and road traffic accident risks. Continuous positive airway pressure 
(CPAP) treatment is clinically effective but undermined by intolerance, and its 
cost-effectiveness is borderline in milder cases. Mandibular advancement devices 
(MADs) are another option, but evidence is lacking regarding their clinical 
effectiveness and cost-effectiveness in milder disease.
OBJECTIVES: (1) Conduct a randomised controlled trial (RCT) examining the 
clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness of MADs against no treatment in 
mild to moderate OSAH. (2) Update systematic reviews and an existing health 
economic decision model with data from the Trial of Oral Mandibular Advancement 
Devices for Obstructive sleep apnoea-hypopnoea (TOMADO) and newly published 
results to better inform long-term clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
of MADs and CPAP in mild to moderate OSAH.
TOMADO: A crossover RCT comparing clinical effectiveness and cost-effectiveness 
of three MADs: self-moulded [SleepPro 1™ (SP1); Meditas Ltd, Winchester, UK]; 
semibespoke [SleepPro 2™ (SP2); Meditas Ltd, Winchester, UK]; and fully bespoke 
[bespoke MAD (bMAD); NHS Oral-Maxillofacial Laboratory, Addenbrooke's Hospital, 
Cambridge, UK] against no treatment, in 90 adults with mild to moderate OSAH. 
All devices improved primary outcome [apnoea-hypopnoea index (AHI)] compared 
with no treatment: relative risk 0.74 [95% confidence interval (CI) 0.62 to 
0.89] for SP1; relative risk 0.67 (95% CI 0.59 to 0.76) for SP2; and relative 
risk 0.64 (95% CI 0.55 to 0.76) for bMAD (p < 0.001). Differences between MADs 
were not significant. Sleepiness [as measured by the Epworth Sleepiness Scale 
(ESS)] was scored 1.51 [95% CI 0.73 to 2.29 (SP1)] to 2.37 [95% CI 1.53 to 3.22 
(bMAD)] lower than no treatment (p < 0.001), with SP2 and bMAD significantly 
better than SP1. All MADs improved disease-specific QoL. Compliance was lower 
for SP1, which was unpopular at trial exit. At 4 weeks, all devices were 
cost-effective at £20,000/quality-adjusted life-year (QALY), with SP2 the best 
value below £39,800/QALY.
META-ANALYSIS: A MEDLINE, EMBASE and Science Citation Index search updating two 
existing systematic reviews (one from November 2006 and the other from June 
2008) to August 2013 identified 77 RCTs in adult OSAH patients comparing MAD 
with conservative management (CM), MADs with CPAP or CPAP with CM. MADs and CPAP 
significantly improved AHI [MAD -9.3/hour (p < 0.001); CPAP -25.4/hour 
(p < 0.001)]. Effect difference between CPAP and MADs was 7.0/hour (p < 0.001), 
favouring CPAP. No trials compared CPAP with MADs in mild OSAH. MAD and CPAP 
reduced the ESS score similarly [MAD 1.6 (p < 0.001); CPAP 1.6 (p < 0.001)].
LONG-TERM COST-EFFECTIVENESS: An existing model assessed lifetime cost-utility 
of MAD and CPAP in mild to moderate OSAH, using the revised meta-analysis to 
update input values. The TOMADO provided utility estimates, mapping ESS score to 
European Quality of Life-5 Dimensions three-level version for device 
cost-utility. Using SP2 as the standard device, MADs produced higher mean costs 
and mean QALYs than CM [incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) £6687/QALY]. 
From a willingness to pay (WTP) of £15,367/QALY, CPAP is cost-effective, 
although the likelihood of MADs (p = 0.48) and CPAP (p = 0.49) being 
cost-effective is very similar. Both were better than CM, but there was much 
uncertainty in the choice between CPAP and MAD (at a WTP £20,000/QALY, the 
probability of being the most cost-effective was 47% for MAD and 52% for CPAP). 
When SP2 lifespan increased to 18 months, the ICER for CPAP compared with MAD 
became £44,066. The ICER for SP1 compared with CM was £1552, and for bMAD 
compared with CM the ICER was £13,836. The ICER for CPAP compared with SP1 was 
£89,182, but CPAP produced lower mean costs and higher mean QALYs than bMAD. 
Differential compliance rates for CPAP reduces cost-effectiveness so MADs become 
less costly and more clinically effective with CPAP compliance 90% of SP2.
CONCLUSIONS: Mandibular advancement devices are clinically effective and 
cost-effective in mild to moderate OSAH. A semi-bespoke MAD is the appropriate 
first choice in most patients in the short term. Future work should explore 
whether or not adjustable MADs give additional clinical and cost benefits. 
Further data on longer-term cardiovascular risk and its risk factors would 
reduce uncertainty in the health economic model and improve precision of 
effectiveness estimates.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: This trial is registered as ISRCTN02309506.
FUNDING: This project was funded by the National Institute for Health Research 
(NIHR) Health Technology Assessment programme and will be published in full in 
Health Technology Assessment; Vol. 18, No. 67. See the NIHR Journals Library 
website for further project information.

DOI: 10.3310/hta18670
PMCID: PMC4781121
PMID: 25359435 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


750. Science. 2014 Oct 31;346(6209):587-91. doi: 10.1126/science.1254405.

Economic and social implications of aging societies.

Harper S(1).

Author information:
(1)Oxford Institute of Population Ageing, University of Oxford, Oxford OX2 6PR, 
UK.

The challenge of global population aging has been brought into sharper focus by 
the financial crisis of 2008. In particular, growing national debt has drawn 
government attention to two apparently conflicting priorities: the need to 
sustain public spending on pensions and health care versus the need to reduce 
budget deficits. A number of countries are consequently reconsidering their 
pension and health care provisions, which account for up to 40% of all 
government spending in advanced economies. Yet population aging is a global 
phenomenon that will continue to affect all regions of the world. By 2050 there 
will be the same number of old as young in the world, with 2 billion people aged 
60 or over and another 2 billion under age 15, each group accounting for 21% of 
the world's population.

Copyright © 2014, American Association for the Advancement of Science.

DOI: 10.1126/science.1254405
PMID: 25359967 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


751. Ther Adv Drug Saf. 2014 Oct;5(5):201-13. doi: 10.1177/2042098614548857.

Combined hormonal contraceptives: prescribing patterns, compliance, and benefits 
versus risks.

Brynhildsen J(1).

Author information:
(1)Obstetrics and Gynaecology, Department of Clinical and Experimental Medicine, 
Faculty of Health Sciences, Linköping University, Linköping, SE-58185, Sweden.

Combined hormonal contraceptives [combined oral contraceptives (COCs)] have been 
available for over 50 years and the impact of this invention may not be 
overestimated. Today over 100 million women are current users and in Western 
Europe and the United States approximately 80% of women of fertile ages can be 
considered as ever-users. Over the years several drawbacks have been identified 
and media alarms on risks are frequently presented, resulting in suboptimal 
compliance and low compliance and continuation rates. Poor compliance and 
discontinuation is a big problem and is not generally identified by prescribers. 
During ideal use COCs offer very good protection against unwanted pregnancies, 
however there is a big problem with compliance and continuation and thus the 
'real-life' efficacy is much lower. Reasons for poor compliance include side 
effects and fear of side effects and it is crucial that the prescriber gives the 
individual woman thorough and balanced information on the benefits and risks. 
Most well known is the increased risk of venous thromboembolism, but also an 
elevated risk of arterial thrombosis and several types of cancer has been 
reported. The risk estimates are low but according to the large number of users 
a substantial number of extra cases will occur. However, use of COCs also offers 
several additional health benefits with significant impact on morbidity and 
quality of life. COC use is associated with a substantial decrease in the risk 
of ovarian cancer, endometrial cancer and colorectal cancer. Moreover, COCs are 
a major option of treatment for women suffering from heavy menstrual bleeding 
and dysmenorrhea as well as hirsutism and acne vulgaris. The net effect of the 
additional health effects of COC- use may very well be positive, i.e. a slight 
increase in life expectancy.

DOI: 10.1177/2042098614548857
PMCID: PMC4212440
PMID: 25360241

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: The author has 
no conflicts of interest to declare.


752. United European Gastroenterol J. 2014 Oct;2(5):345-54. doi: 
10.1177/2050640614548208.

Epidemiology of chronic pancreatitis: burden of the disease and consequences.

Lévy P(1), Domínguez-Muñoz E(2), Imrie C(3), Löhr M(4), Maisonneuve P(5).

Author information:
(1)Service de Pancréatologie-Gastroentérologie, Pôle des Maladies de l'Appareil 
Digestif, DHU UNITY, Hôpital Beaujon, Faculté Denis Diderot, Clichy Cedex, 
France.
(2)University Hospital of Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(3)University of Glasgow, Glasgow, United Kingdom.
(4)Karolinska University Hospital & Karolinska Institutet, Stockholm, Sweden.
(5)European Institute of Oncology, Milan, Italy.

The epidemiology of chronic pancreatitis (CP) is incompletely understood. A 
number of difficulties exist in estimating the prevalence and incidence of CP. 
Long-term follow-up is often problematic, especially in chronic alcoholics, and 
obtaining a formal and standardised diagnosis can take years. The available 
studies are reasonably consistent in their estimation of the incidence of CP but 
few studies have attempted to estimate prevalence. Although life expectancy in 
CP is diminished compared with control populations, median survival lies in the 
range of 15-20 years. Such a survival would suggest a prevalence of CP rather 
higher than that determined from the survey studies. A recent epidemiological 
study in France found an annual incidence of 7.8 per 100,000. Assuming a 
survival of 15-20 years, the annual prevalence should be between 120 to 143 per 
100,000. Overall, our understanding of the epidemiology of CP is poor compared 
with other illnesses. We consider that both prevalence and the rate of 
pancreatic insufficiency and of CP are currently underestimated. There is a 
distinct need for more studies to remedy this lack of knowledge.

DOI: 10.1177/2050640614548208
PMCID: PMC4212500
PMID: 25360312


753. Geriatr Orthop Surg Rehabil. 2014 Sep;5(3):109-15. doi: 
10.1177/2151458514537272.

Assessing preoperative frailty utilizing validated geriatric mortality 
calculators and their association with postoperative hip fracture mortality 
risk.

Dwyer JG(1), Reynoso JF(1), Seevers GA(2), Schmid KK(3), Muralidhar P(1), 
Konigsberg B(4), Lynch TG(2), Johanning JM(2).

Author information:
(1)University of Nebraska Medical Center, Department of Surgery, Omaha, NE, USA.
(2)NWI VA Medical Center, Department of Surgery, Omaha, NE, USA.
(3)University of Nebraska Medical Center, Department of Biostatistics, Omaha, 
NE, USA.
(4)The Nebraska Medical Center, Department of Orthopaedic Surgery and 
Rehabilitation.

INTRODUCTION: End-of-life surgical care is a major concern with a significant 
number of operations performed within the last year of life; surgery for hip 
fractures is a prime example. Unfortunately, no simple objective tool exists to 
assess life expectancy in the postoperative period. The goal of our study was to 
analyze 2 simple geriatric life expectancy calculators to compare with the 
current Veterans Affairs Surgical Quality Improvement Program (VASQIP) 
postoperative 30-day mortality calculator.
METHODS: This retrospective study assessed the utility of 3 validated 
calculators in 47 hip fracture repairs from July 2009 to May 2011. The tools 
included: 30-day VASQIP mortality calculator, 6-month Minimum Data Set Mortality 
Risk Index-Revised (MMRI-R), and Four-Year Mortality Index. The VASQIP 
calculator requires chart review, Current Procedural Terminology (CPT) codes, 
and laboratory analysis, whereas the mortality risk indices require simple 
patient questioning if prospective or simple chart review if retrospective. 
Scoring was performed and mortality risk was compared between survivors and 
nonsurvivors.
RESULTS: A total of 47 hip fractures were repaired during the study period with 
37 survivors and 10 nonsurvivors. In all, 7 died within 30 days, 2 died within 6 
months, and 1 died greater than 6 months after surgery. The mean age (standard 
deviation [SD]) of all patients undergoing hip fracture repair was 73.6 (13.3) 
years. The VASQIP calculator mean (SD) 30-day mortality risk was 10.4% (5.4) for 
nonsurvivors compared to survivors 4.3% (5.5), P < .003; the MMRI-R mean (SD) 
mortality risk was 35.8% (15.4) for nonsurvivors compared to survivors 14.7% 
(9.5), P < .001; the Four-Year Mortality Index mean (SD) mortality risk was 
60.9% (16.9) for nonsurvivors compared to survivors 48.9% (24.4), P < .09.
CONCLUSION: Overall, the VASQIP 30-day and MMRI-R 6-month mortality calculators 
showed significant differences in mortality risk between survivors versus 
nonsurvivors in a population with hip fracture. In contrast, the Four-Year 
Mortality calculator may not sufficiently discriminate operative risk. The 
easily obtained MMRI-R has the potential to provide information on short-term 
postoperative mortality risk.

DOI: 10.1177/2151458514537272
PMCID: PMC4212426
PMID: 25360340

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests: The 
author(s) declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the 
research, authorship, and/or publication of this article.


754. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 31;9(10):e111882. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111882. 
eCollection 2014.

Mortality among people with severe mental disorders who reach old age: a 
longitudinal study of a community-representative sample of 37,892 men.

Almeida OP(1), Hankey GJ(2), Yeap BB(3), Golledge J(4), Norman PE(5), Flicker 
L(6).

Author information:
(1)School of Psychiatry & Clinical Neurosciences, University of Western 
Australia, Perth, Australia; WA Centre for Health & Ageing, Centre for Medical 
Research, Perth, Australia; Department of Psychiatry, Royal Perth Hospital, 
Perth, Australia.
(2)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Australia; Department of Neurology, Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Perth, 
Australia.
(3)School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Australia; Department of Endocrinology, Fremantle Hospital, Fremantle, 
Australia.
(4)Queensland Research Centre for Peripheral Vascular Disease, School of 
Medicine and Dentistry, James Cook University, Townsville, Australia; Department 
of Vascular and Endovascular Surgery, The Townsville Hospital, Townsville, 
Australia.
(5)School of Surgery, University of Western Australia, Perth, Australia.
(6)WA Centre for Health & Ageing, Centre for Medical Research, Perth, Australia; 
School of Medicine and Pharmacology, University of Western Australia, Perth, 
Australia; Department of Geriatric Medicine, Royal Perth Hospital, Perth, 
Australia.

BACKGROUND: Severe mental illnesses are leading causes of disability worldwide. 
Their prevalence declines with age, possibly due to premature death. It is 
unclear, however, if people with severe mental disorders who reach older age 
still have lower life expectancy compared with their peers and if their causes 
of death differ.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: Cohort study of a community-representative sample of 37892 
Australian men aged 65-85 years in 1996-1998. Follow up was censored on the 31st 
December 2010. Lifetime prevalence of schizophrenia spectrum, bipolar, 
depressive and alcohol-induced disorder was established through record linkage. 
A subsample of 12136 consented to a face-to-face assessment of sociodemographic, 
lifestyle and clinical variables. Information about causes of death was 
retrieved from the Australian Death Registry. The prevalence of schizophrenia 
spectrum, bipolar, depressive and alcohol-induced disorders was 1.2%, 0.3%, 2.5% 
and 1.8%. The mortality hazard for men with a severe mental disorder was 2.3 and 
their life expectancy was reduced by 3 years. Mortality rates increased with 
age, but the gap between men with and without severe mental disorders was not 
attenuated by age. Cardiovascular diseases and cancer were the most frequent 
causes of death. The excess mortality associated with severe mental disorders 
could not be explained by measured sociodemographic, lifestyle or clinical 
variables.
CONCLUSIONS: The excess mortality associated with severe mental disorders 
persists in later life, and the causes of death of younger and older people with 
severe mental disorders are similar. Hazardous lifestyle choices, suboptimal 
access to health care, poor compliance with treatments, and greater severity of 
medical comorbidities may all contribute to this increased mortality. Unlike 
young adults, most older people will visit their primary care physician at least 
once a year, offering health professionals an opportunity to intervene in order 
to minimise the harms associated with severe mental disorders.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0111882
PMCID: PMC4216120
PMID: 25360781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


755. PLoS One. 2014 Oct 31;9(10):e110940. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110940. 
eCollection 2014.

The orthopaedic trauma patient experience: a qualitative case study of 
orthopaedic trauma patients in Uganda.

O'Hara NN(1), Mugarura R(2), Slobogean GP(1), Bouchard M(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics, University of British Columbia, Vancouver, 
British Columbia, Canada.
(2)Department of Orthopaedics, Makerere University, Kampala, Uganda.
(3)Department of Orthopaedics, Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, Washington, 
United States of America.

The disability adjusted life years (DALYs) associated with injuries have 
increased by 34% from 1990 to 2010, making it the 10th leading cause of 
disability worldwide, with most of the burden affecting low-income countries. 
Although disability from injuries is often preventable, limited access to 
essential surgical services contributes to these increasing DALY rates. Similar 
to many other low- and middle-income countries (LMIC), Uganda is plagued by a 
growing volume of traumatic injuries. The aim of this study is to explore the 
orthopaedic trauma patient's experience in accessing medical care in Uganda and 
what affects the injury might have on the socioeconomic status for the patient 
and their dependents. We also evaluate the factors that impact an individual's 
ability to access an appropriate treatment facility for their traumatic injury. 
Semi-structured interviews were conducted with patients 18 year of age or older 
admitted with a fractured tibia or femur at Mulago National Referral Hospital in 
Kampala, Uganda. As limited literature exists on the socioeconomic impacts of 
disability from trauma, we designed a descriptive qualitative case study, using 
thematic analysis, to extract unique information for which little has been 
previously been documented. This methodology is subject to less bias than other 
qualitative methods as it imposes fewer preconceptions. Data analysis of the 
patient interviews (n = 35) produced over one hundred codes, nine sub-themes and 
three overarching themes. The three overarching categories revealed by the data 
were: 1) the importance of social supports; 2) the impact of and on economic 
resources; and 3) navigating the healthcare system. Limited resources to fund 
the treatment of orthopaedic trauma patients in Uganda leads to reliance of 
patients on their friends, family, and hospital connections, and a tremendous 
economic burden that falls on the patient and their dependents.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0110940
PMCID: PMC4215992
PMID: 25360815 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


756. Expert Opin Investig Drugs. 2015 Apr;24(4):585-94. doi: 
10.1517/13543784.2014.979283. Epub 2014 Oct 31.

Pregabalin for the treatment of social anxiety disorder.

Kawalec P(1), Cierniak A, Pilc A, Nowak G.

Author information:
(1)Jagiellonian University Medical College, Department of Drug Management, 
Faculty of Health Sciences , Grzegórzecka 20, PL 31-531 Kraków , Poland 
pawel.kawalec@uj.edu.pl.

INTRODUCTION: Social anxiety disorder (SAD) is one of the most common 
psychiatric disorders, causing a reduction of in the quality of life by 
impairing functioning in social situations. The lifetime prevalence of SAD is 
estimated to be 12%. Selective serotonin reuptake inhibitors (SSRIs) and 
serotonin-norepinephrine reuptake inhibitors (SNRIs) are considered first-line 
drugs for SAD. However, new effective therapeutic options are still needed. 
Pregabalin is a novel anxiolytic, which seems to be a promising therapy for SAD.
AREAS COVERED: This review presents the results of three randomized controlled 
trials (RCTs) comparing the efficacy and safety of pregabalin with placebo in 
patients with generalized SAD. The authors also discuss the long-term safety and 
tolerability data from an extension study.
EXPERT OPINION: The results of the RCTs have demonstrated efficacy and safety 
with pregabalin at doses of 600 mg or 450 mg/d for treating generalized SAD. 
Thus, pregabalin may be an effective therapeutic option, especially for patients 
who cannot tolerate the adverse effects or who demonstrate a lack of efficacy 
with SSRIs or SNRIs. In addition to being an alternative therapy to SSRIs or 
SNRIs, it may also have value as an add-on therapy, either to augment 
pharmacotherapy or in addition to cognitive-behavioral therapy.

DOI: 10.1517/13543784.2014.979283
PMID: 25361817 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


757. Pediatr Rev. 2014 Nov;35(11):e53-6. doi: 10.1542/pir.35-11-e53.

Visual diagnosis: 8-day-old hypotonic newborn with sparse hair.

Marques JS(1), Mateus M(1), Torres T(1), Santos H(1), Real MV(1), Santos F(1).

Author information:
(1)Serviço Pediatria, Centro Hospitalar Vila Nova de Gaia, Portugal.

A hypotonic newborn or infant with pale skin and sparse, friable, hypopigmented, 
or depigmented hair should have his copper and ceruloplasmin plasma levels 
evaluated because this is the usual clinical presentation of Menkes disease. 
Menkes disease is an X-linked recessive disease caused by a defect in the ATP7A 
gene, identified in 95% to 98% of the cases. Identifying the mutation confirms 
the diagnosis and allows for prenatal counseling and diagnosis in a future 
pregnancy. When administered within the first few months of life, copper 
histidinate, given subcutaneously in a dose of 50 to 150 mg/kg per day, appears 
to be effective not only by increasing life expectancy from 3 to 13 years but 
also by improving neurologic symptoms and neurodevelopmental outcomes in 
approximately 30% of the patients.

DOI: 10.1542/pir.35-11-e53
PMID: 25361912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


758. J Vasc Access. 2015 Mar-Apr;16(2):130-6. doi: 10.5301/jva.5000314. Epub 2014
Oct  14.

Central venous access devices in pediatric malignancies: a position paper of 
Italian Association of Pediatric Hematology and Oncology.

Crocoli A(1), Tornesello A, Pittiruti M, Barone A, Muggeo P, Inserra A, Molinari 
AC, Grillenzoni V, Durante V, Cicalese MP, Zanazzo GA, Cesaro S.

Author information:
(1)1 General and Thoracic Surgery Unit, Department of Surgery, Bambino Gesù 
Children's Hospital, IRCCS, Rome - Italy.

INTRODUCTION: Treatment of pediatric malignancies is becoming progressively more 
complex, implying the adoption of multimodal therapies. A reliable, long-lasting 
venous access represents one of the critical requirements for the success of 
those treatments. Recent technical innovations-such as minimally invasive 
procedures for placement, new devices and novel materials-have rapidly spread 
for clinical use in adult patients, but are still not consistently used in the 
pediatric population.
METHODS: The Supportive Therapy Working Group of Italian Association of 
Hematology and Oncology (AIEOP) reviewed medical literature focusing on new 
aspects of central venous access devices (VADs) in pediatric patients affected 
by oncohematological diseases.
RESULTS: Appropriate recommendations for clinical use in these patients have 
been discussed and formulated.
CONCLUSIONS: The importance of the correct choice, management and use of VADs in 
pediatric oncohematological patients is a necessary prerequisite for an adequate 
standard of care, also considering the increased chances of cure and the longer 
life expectancy of those patients with modern therapies.

DOI: 10.5301/jva.5000314
PMID: 25362978 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


759. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2015 Apr;15(2):357-64. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2015.978292. Epub 2014 Nov 1.

Cost-effectiveness of bronchial thermoplasty in commercially-insured patients 
with poorly controlled, severe, persistent asthma.

Cangelosi MJ(1), Ortendahl JD, Meckley LM, Bentley TG, Anene AM, Shriner KM, Fox 
J.

Author information:
(1)Boston Scientific Corporation, Marlborough, MA, USA.

OBJECTIVES: We examined the cost-effectiveness of treating poorly controlled, 
severe, persistent asthma patients with bronchial thermoplasty (BT), a novel 
technology that uses thermal energy to reduce airway smooth muscle mass, with 
5-year outcome data demonstrating a durable reduction in asthma exacerbations.
STUDY DESIGN: We conducted a model-based cost-effectiveness analysis assessing 
5-year healthcare utilization, patient quality of life and adverse events.
METHODS: We utilized Markov modeling to estimate the costs and quality-of-life 
impact of BT compared with high-dose combination therapy among poorly 
controlled, severe, persistent asthma patients: those requiring high-dose 
combination therapy and having experienced an asthma exacerbation-related ER 
visit in the past year.
RESULTS: The cost-effectiveness of BT was US$5495 per quality-adjusted life 
year; and approximately 22% of sensitivity analysis iterations estimated BT to 
reduce costs and increase quality of life.
CONCLUSIONS: BT is a cost-effective treatment option for patients with poorly 
controlled, severe, persistent asthma.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2015.978292
PMID: 25363000 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


760. S Afr Med J. 2014 Aug 13;104(10):680-7. doi: 10.7196/samj.7868.

Monitoring of non-communicable diseases such as hypertension in South Africa: 
challenges for the post-2015 global development agenda.

Day C(1), Groenewald P, Laubscher R, Chaudhry S, Van Schaik N, Bradshaw D.

Author information:
(1)Health Systems Trust, Durban, South Africa. candy.day@hst.org.za.

BACKGROUND: Examining the non-communicable disease (NCD) profile for South 
Africa (SA) is crucial when developing health interventions that aim to reduce 
the burden of NCDs.
OBJECTIVE: To review NCD indicators in national data sources in order to 
describe the burden of NCDs in SA, using hypertension as an example.
METHODS: Age, gender, district of death and underlying cause of death data were 
obtained for 2008 and 2009 mortality unit records from Statistics SA and 
adjusted using STATA 11. Data for raised blood pressure were obtained from four 
national household surveys: the South African Demographic and Health Survey 
1998, the Study on Global Ageing and Adult Health 2007, and the National Income 
Dynamics Study 2008 and 2010.
RESULTS: The proportion of years of life lost due to NCDs was highest in the 
metros and least-deprived districts, with all metros (especially Mangaung) 
showing high age-standardised mortality rates for ischaemic heart disease, 
cerebrovascular disease and hypertensive disease. The prevalence of hypertension 
has increased since 1998. National household surveys showed a measured 
hypertension prevalence of over 40% in adults aged ≥25 years in 2010. Treatment 
coverage was 35.7%. Only 36.4% of hypertensive cases (on treatment) were 
controlled.
CONCLUSION: Further work is needed if NCD monitoring is to be enhanced. Priority 
targets for NCDs must be integrated into national health planning processes. 
Surveillance requires integration into national health information systems. 
Within primary healthcare, a larger focus on integrated chronic care is 
essential.

DOI: 10.7196/samj.7868
PMID: 25363054 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


761. J Hist Behav Sci. 2012 Spring;48(2):115-33. doi: 10.1002/jhbs.21532.

Interpreting "Mind-Cure": William James and the "chief task…of the science of 
human nature".

Sutton EK(1).

Author information:
(1)University College London.

The private papers of the philosopher-psychologist, William James, indicate that 
he frequented several mental healers during his life, undertaking 100-200 
therapeutic sessions concerning a range of symptoms from angina to insomnia. The 
success of the mind-cure movement constituted for James both a corroboration, 
and an extension, of the new research into the subconscious self and the 
psychogenesis of disease. Epistemologically, the experiences of those converts 
to the "mind-cure religion" exemplified his conviction that positivistic 
scientific enquiry can only reveal only one part of a wider reality. 
Metaphysically their reports comprised a powerful body of support for the 
existence of a "higher consciousness," a supernatural world of some description. 
The positing of such a source of "supernormal" healing power was, for James, the 
best way to reconcile the accounts of those who had been regenerated, via their 
faith, despite having exhausted all natural reserves of energy and will.

© 2012 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jhbs.21532
PMID: 25363442 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


762. Genesis. 2014 Dec;52(12):967-75. doi: 10.1002/dvg.22833. Epub 2014 Nov 11.

Two new targeted alleles for the comprehensive analysis of Meis1 functions in 
the mouse.

González-Lázaro M(1), Roselló-Díez A, Delgado I, Carramolino L, Sanguino MA, 
Giovinazzo G, Torres M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiovascular Development and Repair, Centro Nacional de 
Investigaciones Cardiovasculares, CNIC, Madrid, Spain.

Meis1 is a highly conserved transcription factor that is activated in a 
regionally restricted manner from early stages of development. Meis1 belongs to 
the three amino acid loop extension (TALE) homeodomain family. Together with 
Pbx1, Meis1 plays a major role as a Hox cofactor, and therefore, plays an 
essential role in the development of several embryonic organs and systems, 
including limbs, heart, blood, and vasculature. In addition, Meis1 is required 
for the development of Hox-free embryonic regions and interacts with non-Hox 
homeodomain and non-homeodomain transcription factors. During post-natal life 
Meis1 is involved in adult cardiomyocyte homeostasis and has been associated 
with pre-disposition to human neural and cardiac pathologies. Given the 
relevance of this transcription factor, we have developed two new Meis1 gene 
knockin models; a direct ECFP knockin insertion that allows the direct 
identification of Meis1-expressing cells in living tissues, and a CreERT2 
insertion that allows the inducible genetic tracing of Meis1-expressing cells in 
a time-controlled manner. Importantly, these two alleles represent the first 
Meis1 mutations in which Meis1 protein production is completely eliminated. 
These newly targeted Meis1 alleles will be valuable tools to further our 
understanding of the role of this critical transcription factor during 
development and disease.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/dvg.22833
PMID: 25363539 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


763. Stat Med. 2015 Jan 30;34(2):265-80. doi: 10.1002/sim.6353. Epub 2014 Nov 3.

Assessing treatment benefit with competing risks not affected by the randomized 
treatment.

Korn EL(1), Dignam JJ, Freidlin B.

Author information:
(1)Biometric Research Branch, Division of Cancer Treatment and Diagnosis, 
National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, MD, 20892, U.S.A.

The comparison of overall survival curves between treatment arms will always be 
of interest in a randomized clinical trial involving a life-shortening disease. 
In some settings, the experimental treatment is only expected to affect the 
deaths caused by the disease, and the proportion of deaths caused by the disease 
is relatively low. In these settings, the ability to assess treatment-effect 
differences between Kaplan-Meier survival curves can be hampered by the large 
proportion of deaths in both arms that are unrelated to the disease. To address 
this problem, frequently displayed are cause-specific survival curves or 
cumulative incidence curves, which respectively censor and immortalize events 
(deaths) not caused by the disease. However, the differences between the 
experimental and control treatment arms for these curves overestimate the 
difference between the overall survival curves for the treatment arms and thus 
could result in overestimation of the benefit of the experimental treatment for 
the patients. To address this issue, we propose new estimators of overall 
survival for the treatment arms that are appropriate when the treatment does not 
affect the non-disease-related deaths. These new estimators give a more precise 
estimate of the treatment benefit, potentially enabling future patients to make 
a more informed decision concerning treatment choice. We also consider the case 
where an exponential assumption allows the simple presentation of mortality 
rates as the outcome measures. Applications are given for estimating overall 
survival in a prostate-cancer treatment randomized clinical trial, and for 
estimating the overall mortality rates in a prostate-cancer screening trial.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/sim.6353
PMCID: PMC4268278
PMID: 25363739 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


764. Oncol Lett. 2014 Dec;8(6):2517-2522. doi: 10.3892/ol.2014.2566. Epub 2014
Sep  26.

Clinicopathological characteristics of pulmonary epithelioid 
hemangioendothelioma: A report of four cases and review of the literature.

Shao J(1), Zhang J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, Shanghai Chest Hospital, Shanghai Jiao Tong 
University, Shanghai 200030, P.R. China.

This study aimed to investigate the clinicopathological characteristics, 
differential diagnosis and prognosis of pulmonary epithelioid 
hemangioendothelioma (PEH). PEH is a rare low-grade malignant vascular tumor. 
The cause of PEH remains unclear. Patient prognosis is unpredictable, with life 
expectancy ranging from 1 to 15 years due to the fact that estrogenic receptors 
behave inconsistently within the tumor and the occurence of the disease in male 
patients does not support the usual hormonal hypothesis. The clinical 
manifestations, imaging findings, histopathological characteristics and 
immunohistochemical phenotypes of four cases of epithelioid hemangioendothelioma 
occurring in the lung were retrospectively analyzed, and a review of the 
associated literature was conducted. The age of onset for the four PEH cases was 
25-54 years, and the disease manifested as multiple nodules in the lungs or 
pleura. All of the patients underwent lobectomy or pulmonary wedge resection. 
The morphology of the tumor cells was epithelioid or spindle-shaped with 
abundant eosinophilic cytoplasm in which lumina or vacuoles containing 
erythrocytes were observed. The cells were arranged in nests and cords with 
degenerated interstitial mucoid. The morphology of the majority of the tumor 
cells was moderate, including mild atypia and little mitosis or necrosis. 
Immunohistochemical staining showed positive results for CD31, CD34 and F8. PEH 
