acupuncture is unavailable or perhaps inappropriate, counselling has an ICER 
less than most cost-effectiveness thresholds. However, further research is 
needed to determine the most cost-effective treatment pathways for depressed 
patients when the full range of available interventions is considered.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113726
PMCID: PMC4245224
PMID: 25426637 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


956. MMWR Morb Mortal Wkly Rep. 2014 Nov 28;63(47):1113-7.

Vital Signs: HIV diagnosis, care, and treatment among persons living with 
HIV--United States, 2011.

Bradley H, Hall HI, Wolitski RJ, Van Handel MM, Stone AE, LaFlam M, Skarbinski 
J, Higa DH, Prejean J, Frazier EL, Patel R, Huang P, An Q, Song R, Tang T, 
Valleroy LA.

In the United States, an estimated 1.2 million persons are living with human 
immunodeficiency virus (HIV), a serious infection that, if untreated, leads to 
illness and premature death. Persons living with HIV who use antiretroviral 
therapy (ART) and achieve very low levels of the virus (suppressed viral load) 
can have a nearly normal life expectancy and have very low risk for transmitting 
HIV to others. However, each year in the United States, nearly 50,000 persons 
become infected with HIV. Each step along the HIV care continuum (HIV diagnosis, 
prompt and sustained HIV medical care, and ART) is essential for achieving a 
suppressed viral load.

PMCID: PMC5779517
PMID: 25426654 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


957. J Med Econ. 2015 Apr;18(4):263-72. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2014.991791. Epub
2015  Jan 2.

An analysis of the cost-effectiveness of switching from biphasic human insulin 
30, insulin glargine, or neutral protamine Hagedorn to biphasic insulin aspart 
30 in people with type 2 diabetes.

Gupta V(1), Baabbad R, Hammerby E, Nikolajsen A, Shafie AA.

Author information:
(1)Jaslok Hospital and Research Centre , Mumbai , India.

AIMS: The aim of this analysis was to assess the cost-effectiveness of switching 
from biphasic human insulin 30 (BHI), insulin glargine (IGlar), or neutral 
protamine Hagedorn (NPH) insulin (all ± oral glucose-lowering drugs [OGLDs]) to 
biphasic insulin aspart 30 (BIAsp 30) in people with type 2 diabetes in India, 
Indonesia, and Saudi Arabia.
METHODS: The IMS CORE Diabetes Model was used to determine the clinical outcome, 
costs, and cost-effectiveness of switching from treatment with BHI, IGlar, or 
NPH to BIAsp 30 over a 30-year time horizon. A 1-year analysis was also 
performed based on quality-of-life data and treatment costs. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were expressed as a fraction of gross domestic 
product (GDP) per capita, and cost-effectiveness was defined as ICER <3-times 
GDP per capita.
RESULTS: Switching treatment from BHI, IGlar, or NPH to BIAsp 30 was associated 
with an increase in life expectancy of >0.7 years, reduction in all 
diabetes-related complications, and was considered as cost-effective or highly 
cost-effective in India, Indonesia, and Saudi Arabia (BHI to BIAsp 30, 0.26 in 
India, 1.25 in Indonesia, 0.01 in Saudi Arabia; IGlar to BIAsp 30, -0.68 in 
India, -0.21 in Saudi Arabia; NPH to BIAsp 30, 0.15 in India, -0.07 in Saudi 
Arabia; GDP per head per annum/quality-adjusted life-year). Cost-effectiveness 
was maintained in the 1-year analyses.
CONCLUSIONS: Switching from treatment with BHI, IGlar, or NPH to BIAsp 30 
(all ± OGLDs) was found to be cost-effective in India, Indonesia, and Saudi 
Arabia, both in the long and short term.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2014.991791
PMID: 25426701 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


958. AIDS. 2015 Jan 14;29(2):221-9. doi: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000540.

Smoking and life expectancy among HIV-infected individuals on antiretroviral 
therapy in Europe and North America.

Helleberg M(1), May MT, Ingle SM, Dabis F, Reiss P, Fätkenheuer G, Costagliola 
D, d'Arminio A, Cavassini M, Smith C, Justice AC, Gill J, Sterne JA, Obel N.

Author information:
(1)aDepartment of Infectious Diseases, Copenhagen University Hospital, 
Rigshospitalet bFaculty of Health Sciences, University of Copenhagen, 
Copenhagen, Denmark cSchool of Social and Community Medicine, University of 
Bristol, Bristol, UK dUniversité Bordeaux, ISPED, Centre INSERM 
U897-Epidémiologie-Biostatistique, Bordeaux, France eDepartment of Global 
Health, Academisch Medisch Centrum bij de Universiteit van Amsterdam, and 
Stichting HIV Monitoring, Amsterdam, The Netherlands fDepartment of Internal 
Medicine, University of Cologne and German Centre for Infection Research (DZIF), 
Cologne, Germany gSorbonne Universités, UPMC Univ Paris 06 hINSERM, UMR_S 1136, 
Institut Pierre Louis d'Epidémiologie et de Santé Publique, Paris, France 
iClinic of Infectious Diseases & Tropical Medicine, San Paolo Hospital, 
University of Milan, Milan, Italy jService des maladies infectieuses, CHUV, 
Lausanne, Switzerland kResearch Department of Infection and Population Health, 
University College London, London, UK lYale University, New Haven mVA 
Connecticut Healthcare System, West Haven, Connecticut, USA nDivision of 
Infectious Diseases, University of Calgary, Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

Erratum in
    AIDS. 2015 Sep 10;29(14):1909.

BACKGROUND: Cardiovascular disease and non-AIDS malignancies have become major 
causes of death among HIV-infected individuals. The relative impact of lifestyle 
and HIV-related factors are debated.
METHODS: We estimated associations of smoking with mortality more than 1 year 
after antiretroviral therapy (ART) initiation among HIV-infected individuals 
enrolled in European and North American cohorts. IDUs were excluded. Causes of 
death were assigned using standardized procedures. We used abridged life tables 
to estimate life expectancies. Life-years lost to HIV were estimated by 
comparison with the French background population.
RESULTS: Among 17,995 HIV-infected individuals followed for 79,760 person-years, 
the proportion of smokers was 60%. The mortality rate ratio (MRR) comparing 
smokers with nonsmokers was 1.94 [95% confidence interval (95% CI) 1.56-2.41]. 
The MRRs comparing current and previous smokers with never smokers were 1.70 
(95% CI 1.23-2.34) and 0.92 (95% CI 0.64-1.34), respectively. Smokers had 
substantially higher mortality from cardiovascular disease, non-AIDS 
malignancies than nonsmokers [MRR 6.28 (95% CI 2.19-18.0) and 3.31 (95% CI 
1.80-5.45), respectively]. [corrected]. Among 35-year-old HIV-infected men, the 
loss of life-years associated with smoking and HIV was 7.9 (95% CI 7.1-8.7) and 
5.9 (95% CI 4.9-6.9), respectively. The life expectancy of virally suppressed, 
never-smokers was 43.5 years (95% CI 41.7-45.3), compared with 44.4 years among 
35-year-old men in the background population. Excess MRRs/1000 person-years 
associated with smoking increased from 0.6 (95% CI -1.3 to 2.6) at age 35 to 
43.6 (95% CI 37.9-49.3) at age at least 65 years.
CONCLUSION: Well treated HIV-infected individuals may lose more life years 
through smoking than through HIV. Excess mortality associated with smoking 
increases markedly with age. Therefore, increases in smoking-related mortality 
can be expected as the treated HIV-infected population ages. Interventions for 
smoking cessation should be prioritized.

DOI: 10.1097/QAD.0000000000000540
PMCID: PMC4284008
PMID: 25426809 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


959. AIDS Rev. 2015 Jan-Mar;17(1):47-55.

Effects of tobacco smoking on HIV-infected individuals.

Calvo M(1), Laguno M(1), Martínez M(1), Martínez E(1).

Author information:
(1)Infectious Diseases Unit, Hospital Clínic, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.

A longer life expectancy and a high prevalence of tobacco smoking among HIV 
patients have led to an increasing cumulative exposure to tobacco in this 
community. Clinical recommendations for smoking cessation in HIV patients are 
mainly based on the body of evidence from the general population plus few 
available data from HIV cohort studies. The assumption that the pathophysiology 
of tobacco-related diseases in HIV-infected patients is similar to that in the 
general population may be questionable. This article reviews the 
pathophysiological mechanisms underlying health problems attributable to tobacco 
in HIV patients, and how these mechanisms may interact with those of HIV 
infection. Tobacco smoking exerts a greater health impact on HIV-infected 
patients than on uninfected smokers. Components of tobacco smoke and HIV 
infection induce complex interrelated pathophysiological changes through 
different pathways, affecting various organ systems with a cumulative or 
synergistic effect. This review supports the contention that HIV infection may 
confer an increased susceptibility to the harmful effects of smoking. 
Tobacco-related harm in the setting of HIV infection is still underestimated. A 
better understanding of the pathophysiological interaction between tobacco 
smoking and HIV will help to promote smoking cessation in this specific 
population.

PMID: 25427101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


960. Health Res Policy Syst. 2014 Nov 27;12:64. doi: 10.1186/1478-4505-12-64.

Are the Norwegian health research investments in line with the disease burden?

Kinge JM(1), Roxrud I, Vollset SE, Skirbekk V, Røttingen JA.

Author information:
(1)Norwegian Institute of Public Health, Postboks 4404, Nydalen, 0403 Oslo, 
Norway. jonas.minet.kinge@fhi.no.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between research funding across therapeutic areas 
and the burden of disease in Norway has not been investigated. Further, few 
studies have looked at the association between national research investments and 
the global disease burden. The aim of the present study was to analyze the 
correlation between a significant part of Norwegian investment in health 
research and the burden of disease across therapeutic areas, using both 
Norwegian and global burden of disease estimates.
METHODS: We used research investment records for 2012 from the Research Council 
of Norway, and the investment records distributed through liaison committees 
between regional health authorities and universities. Both were classified by 
the Health Research Classification System (HRCS). Furthermore, we used the years 
of life lost and Disability Adjusted Life Years (DALYs) for Norway and globally 
from the Global Burden of Disease 2010 project. We created a matrix to match the 
expenditures by HRCS with the values from the Global Burden of Disease project.
RESULTS: Disease-specific research funding increased with the Norwegian burden 
of disease measured as years of life lost (correlation coefficient = 0.73). 
Similar findings were done when the Norwegian disease burden was measured as 
DALYs (correlation coefficient = 0.62). The correlation between research funding 
and the global disease burden was low both when years of life lost (correlation 
coefficient = 0.11) and DALYs (correlation coefficient = 0.12) were used. 
Generally, when the disease burden was relatively high in Norway compared with 
the rest of the world, research investments were also high.
CONCLUSIONS: Across therapeutic areas, the Norwegian research investments 
appeared aligned with the Norwegian disease burden. The correlation between the 
Norwegian research investments and the global disease burden was much lower.

DOI: 10.1186/1478-4505-12-64
PMCID: PMC4256793
PMID: 25427859 [Indexed for MEDLINE]961. Immunol Res. 2014 Dec;60(2-3):226-35. doi: 10.1007/s12026-014-8597-x.

Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) associated with vaccinations: a review of 
reported cases.

Perricone C(1), Ceccarelli F, Nesher G, Borella E, Odeh Q, Conti F, Shoenfeld Y, 
Valesini G.

Author information:
(1)Reumatologia, Dipartimento di Medicina Interna e Specialità Mediche, Sapienza 
Università di Roma, Rome, Italy.

Immune thrombocytopenic purpura (ITP) is an autoimmune condition characterized 
by low platelet count with mucocutaneous and other bleedings. Clinical 
manifestations may range from spontaneous formation of purpura and petechiae, 
especially on the extremities, to epistaxis, bleeding at the gums or 
menorrhagia, any of which occur usually if the platelet count is below 20,000 
per μl. A very low count may result in the spontaneous formation of hematomas in 
the mouth or on other mucous membranes. Fatal complications, including 
subarachnoid or intracerebral, lower gastrointestinal or other internal bleeding 
can arise due to an extremely low count. Vaccines may induce ITP by several 
mechanisms. Vaccine-associated autoimmunity may stem not only from the 
antigen-mediated responses but also from other constituents of the vaccine, such 
as yeast proteins, adjuvants, and preservatives diluents. The most likely is 
through virally induced molecular mimicry. The binding of pathogenic 
autoantibodies to platelet and megakaryocytes may cause thrombocytopenia by 
different mechanisms, such as opsonization, direct activation of complement, or 
apoptotic pathways. The autoantibodies hypothesis is not sufficient to explain 
all ITP cases: In the anti-platelet antibody-negative cases, a complementary 
mechanism based on T cell immune-mediated mechanism has been suggested. In 
particular, T cell subsets seem dysregulated with an increased production of 
pro-inflammatory cytokines, as IFN-γ and TNF, and chemokines, as CXCL10. 
Vaccines are one of the most striking discoveries in human history that changed 
dramatically life expectancy. Nonetheless, the occurrence of adverse events and 
autoimmune phenomena has been described following vaccination, and ITP may 
represent one of this.

DOI: 10.1007/s12026-014-8597-x
PMID: 25427992 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


962. Trials. 2014 Nov 26;15:462. doi: 10.1186/1745-6215-15-462.

Evaluation of lightweight fibreglass heel casts in the management of ulcers of 
the heel in diabetes: study protocol for a randomised controlled trial.

Jeffcoate W(1), Game F, Price P, Phillips C, Turtle-Savage V.

Author information:
(1)Foot Ulcer Trials Unit, Department of Diabetes and Endocrinology, Nottingham 
University Hospitals NHS Trust, City Hospital Campus, Hucknall Road, Nottingham, 
NG5 1 PB, UK. wjeffcoate@futu.co.uk.

BACKGROUND: Ulcers of the heel in diabetes are the source of considerable 
suffering and cost. In the absence of specific treatments, it has been suggested 
that removable, lightweight fibreglass heel casts may both promote healing and 
reduce discomfort and pain. The aim of the study is to assess the effectiveness 
and cost-effectiveness of fibreglass heel casts in the management of heel 
ulcers.
METHODS/DESIGN: This is an observer-blind, randomised controlled trial in which 
participants with diabetes and heel ulcers (NPUAP/EPUAP grades 2, 3 or 4 and 
present for 2 or more weeks) are randomised to receive either usual care plus 
lightweight fibreglass heel casts or usual care alone. Randomisation is 
undertaken by random number sequence generation incorporated as part of the 
electronic case record form, and is stratified by both ulcer area (less than 
versus equal to or greater than 1 cm(2)) and NPUAP/EPUAP grade. Participants are 
followed every two weeks until healing or for 24 weeks. The primary outcome 
measure is healing at or before 24 weeks and maintained for 4 weeks. Secondary 
outcomes include (i) ulcer-related outcomes: time to healing, change in ulcer 
area, minor and major amputation, secondary infection and (ii) patient-related 
outcomes: local pain, mood and function (EQ-5D), impact of the ulcer (Cardiff 
Wound Impact Schedule) and survival. Cost-effectiveness will be assessed using a 
decision analytic model to estimate costs from the perspective of the UK NHS and 
personal social services and health outcomes, including percent healing and 
Quality Adjusted Life Years gained.Safety will be documented as adverse and 
serious adverse device effects.
DISCUSSION: If it is possible to confirm significant clinical benefit and/or 
cost-effectiveness, this would have direct implications for the management of 
this distressing and costly complication of diabetes
TRIAL REGISTRATION NUMBER: ISRCTN62524796 Registered 29 March 2011.

DOI: 10.1186/1745-6215-15-462
PMCID: PMC4289201
PMID: 25428268 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


963. Kardiol Pol. 2015;73(5):344-51. doi: 10.5603/KP.a2014.0231. Epub 2014 Nov
27.

Evaluation of endothelial function and arterial stiffness in HIV-infected 
patients: a pilot study.

Balsam P, Mikuła T, Peller M(1), Suchacz M, Puchalski B, Kołtowski Ł, 
Główczyńska R, Wiercińska-Drapalo A, Opolski G, Filipiak KJ.

Author information:
(1)I Katedra i Klinika Kardiologii Warszawski Uniwersytet Medyczny. 
michalpeller@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: In the era of combination antiretroviral therapy (cART), life 
expectancy of HIV-infected patients is the same as that of the general 
population, resulting in increasing prevalence of cardiovascular disease in this 
patient group.
AIM: To assess the prevalence of endothelial dysfunction in HIV-infected 
patients and to identify factors which affect endothelial function and arterial 
stiffness.
METHODS: Thirty-seven adult HIV-infected patients, regardless of the fact and 
the type of cART, were enrolled into the study. In patient, reactive hyperaemia 
peripheral arterial tonometry assessment was performed using the Endo-PAT2000 
device (ITAMAR®). This method allows evaluation of endothelial function ant 
arterial stiffness.
RESULTS: Final analysis included 37 patients (median age 38 years, range 32-45 
years), including 89.2% men. Endothelial dysfunction was found in 13 (35.1%) 
HIV-infected patients. We found no differences in demographic and clinical 
characteristics, laboratory data, and cardiovascular drug therapy between 
patients with or without endothelial dysfunction, except for platelet count 
which was higher in patients with endothelial dysfunction (174 [119-193] × 
10³/mm3 vs. 222 [168-266] × 10³/mm³, p = 0.03). No demographic or clinical 
variables were identified as predictors of endothelial dysfunction in 
HIV-infected patients. In addition, no association was found between factors 
related to HIV infection, chronic drug therapy and the risk of endothelial 
dysfunction. Statistically significant correlations were found between arterial 
stiffness and age (rs = 0.53, p < 0.001), red blood cell count (rs = -0.39, p = 
0.018), and platelet count (rs = 0.42, p = 0.009). CD4+ and CD8+ lymphocyte 
count and viral load were similar in patients with or without endothelial 
dysfunction. Arterial stiffness was significantly higher in patients with higher 
viral load (rs = -0.39, p = 0.0018) and in those with established AIDS (9.5 
[1.0-16.0] vs. -5 [-10-5], p = 0.009). cART had no effect on endothelial 
dysfunction, while arterial stiffness was higher in patients treated with cART 
(10 [0-15] vs. -5 [-10-3], p = 0.014).
CONCLUSIONS: Endothelial dysfunction is common in HIV-infected patients. In 
general, none of the analysed factors had an effect on endothelial function but 
cART had a negative effect on arterial stiffness.

DOI: 10.5603/KP.a2014.0231
PMID: 25428814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


964. J Bone Miner Res. 2015 May;30(5):824-36. doi: 10.1002/jbmr.2420.

Pathophysiological role of vascular smooth muscle alkaline phosphatase in medial 
artery calcification.

Sheen CR(1), Kuss P, Narisawa S, Yadav MC, Nigro J, Wang W, Chhea TN, Sergienko 
EA, Kapoor K, Jackson MR, Hoylaerts MF, Pinkerton AB, O'Neill WC, Millán JL.

Author information:
(1)Sanford Children's Health Research Center, Sanford-Burnham Medical Research 
Institute, La Jolla, CA, USA.

Medial vascular calcification (MVC) is a pathological phenomenon that causes 
vascular stiffening and can lead to heart failure; it is common to a variety of 
conditions, including aging, chronic kidney disease, diabetes, obesity, and a 
variety of rare genetic diseases. These conditions share the common feature of 
tissue-nonspecific alkaline phosphatase (TNAP) upregulation in the vasculature. 
To evaluate the role of TNAP in MVC, we developed a mouse model that 
overexpresses human TNAP in vascular smooth muscle cells in an X-linked manner. 
Hemizygous overexpressor male mice (Tagln-Cre(+/-) ; Hprt(ALPL) (/Y) or TNAP-OE) 
show extensive vascular calcification, high blood pressure, and cardiac 
hypertrophy, and have a median age of death of 44 days, whereas the 
cardiovascular phenotype is much less pronounced and life expectancy is longer 
in heterozygous (Tagln-Cre(+/-) ; Hprt(ALPL) (/-) ) female TNAP-OE mice. Gene 
expression analysis showed upregulation of osteoblast and chondrocyte markers 
and decreased expression of vascular smooth muscle markers in the aortas of 
TNAP-OE mice. Through medicinal chemistry efforts, we developed inhibitors of 
TNAP with drug-like pharmacokinetic characteristics. TNAP-OE mice were treated 
with the prototypical TNAP inhibitor SBI-425 or vehicle to evaluate the 
feasibility of TNAP inhibition in vivo. Treatment with this inhibitor 
significantly reduced aortic calcification and cardiac hypertrophy, and extended 
lifespan over vehicle-treated controls, in the absence of secondary effects on 
the skeleton. This study shows that TNAP in the vasculature contributes to the 
pathology of MVC and that it is a druggable target.

© 2014 American Society for Bone and Mineral Research.

DOI: 10.1002/jbmr.2420
PMCID: PMC4406354
PMID: 25428889 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


965. Clin Interv Aging. 2014 Nov 18;9:1963-80. doi: 10.2147/CIA.S53482.
eCollection  2014.

Achieving glycemic control in elderly patients with type 2 diabetes: a critical 
comparison of current options.

Du YF(1), Ou HY(1), Beverly EA(2), Chiu CJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Endocrinology and Metabolism, Department of Internal Medicine, 
National Cheng Kung University Hospital, Tainan, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Social Medicine, Ohio University Heritage College of 
Osteopathic Medicine, Athens, OH, USA.
(3)Institute of Gerontology, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung 
University, Tainan, Taiwan.

The prevalence of type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is increasing in the elderly. 
Because of the unique characteristics of elderly people with T2DM, therapeutic 
strategy and focus should be tailored to suit this population. This article 
reviews the guidelines and studies related to older people with T2DM worldwide. 
A few important themes are generalized: 1) the functional and cognitive status 
is critical for older people with T2DM considering their life expectancy 
compared to younger counterparts; 2) both severe hypoglycemia and persistent 
hyperglycemia are deleterious to older adults with T2DM, and both conditions 
should be avoided when determining therapeutic goals; 3) recently developed 
guidelines emphasize the avoidance of hypoglycemic episodes in older people, 
even in the absence of symptoms. In addition, we raise the concern of glycemic 
variability, and discuss the rationale for the selection of current options in 
managing this patient population.

DOI: 10.2147/CIA.S53482
PMCID: PMC4241951
PMID: 25429208 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


966. Health Soc Care Community. 2015 May;23(3):292-303. doi: 10.1111/hsc.12146.
Epub  2014 Nov 28.

Unmet health and rehabilitation needs of people with long-term neurological 
conditions in Queensland, Australia.

Foster M(1), Allen S, Fleming J.

Author information:
(1)School of Social Work and Human Services, The University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Queensland, Australia.

The survival and life expectancy rates of people with traumatic and degenerative 
neurological conditions are increasing, sometimes up to several decades. Yet 
compared to the general population, people with a disability continue to 
experience poorer health and are at greater risk of developing secondary health 
problems and facing barriers to services they require. These trends have 
significant implications for provision of health and rehabilitation services. In 
this study, the adequacy of health and rehabilitation services provided to 
people with long-term neurological conditions and their unmet needs were 
explored from the perspectives of individual users, their nominated family 
members and key service providers. A qualitative research design with maximum 
variation sampling was used. Data were collected from semi-structured interviews 
with 65 participants comprising 25 long-term care service users, nominated 
family members or friends (n = 22) and care service providers (n = 18) in 
Queensland, Australia. All service users needed assistance with usual daily 
activities, and 22 were wheelchair dependent. The hours of funded personal care 
ranged from 2 to 201 hours per week. Data were analysed using framework 
analysis. Participants generally perceived that specialist medical and hospital 
services were adequate and satisfactory. They valued supportive health and 
rehabilitation professionals and receiving client-centred physical 
rehabilitation. However, the majority of participants (n = 17) had perceived 
unmet needs for physical rehabilitation (n = 14), other health or rehabilitation 
services (n = 10) or counselling (n = 6). Community-based physical maintenance 
rehabilitation was often perceived as inadequate, costly or inconveniently 
located. Participants highlighted the importance of personal and family 
counselling and information provision at time points such as diagnosis. The 
findings contribute to the limited international evidence on the gaps in health 
and rehabilitation services for people with neurological conditions receiving 
lifetime care services in the community. A continuum of integrated 
rehabilitation services to minimise avoidable impairments, optimise independence 
and functioning, and sustain quality of life is warranted.

© 2014 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/hsc.12146
PMID: 25429895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


967. Anatol J Cardiol. 2015 May;15(5):404-8. doi: 10.5152/akd.2014.5413. Epub
2014  Apr 16.

Different clinical presentations of Naxos disease and Carvajal syndrome: Case 
series from a single tertiary center and review of the literature.

Baykan A(1), Olgar Ş, Argun M, Özyurt A, Pamukçu Ö, Üzüm K, Narin N.

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Faculty of Medicine, Erciyes University; 
Kayseri-Turkey. dr.margun@hotmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: Naxos disease is an autosomal recessive, inherited, cardiocutaneous 
disorder, characterized by arrhythmogenic right ventricular cardiomyopathy, 
woolly hair, and palmoplantar keratoderma. Carvajal syndrome is characterized by 
palmoplantar keratoderma, curly hair, dilated cardiomyopathy, especially on the 
left ventricle side, and early morbidity. The aim of this study was to evaluate 
the cutaneous and cardiac findings and genotype-phenotype relationship of six 
patients diagnosed with Naxos/Carvajal syndrome.
METHODS: A retrospective review of six cases diagnosed with Naxos/Carvajal 
syndrome at our institution from 2002 to 2012 was performed. Demographic data; 
presenting complaints; cutaneous and cardiac findings; electrocardiography, 
echocardiography, and genetic analysis results; and treatment data were obtained 
from patient files.
RESULTS: The patient group was composed of 4 males and 2 females, ranging from 
1.5 to 13 years, with a mean age 6.4 years. Typical cutaneous and hair findings 
were present in all patients. Two cases presented with ventricular tachycardia 
attack, and 2 cases presented with severe heart failure. Two cases had only 
cutaneous findings without cardiac involvement at diagnosis. An implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillator was implanted in one case due to ongoing recurrent 
ventricular tachycardia attacks despite various antiarrhythmic treatments. Three 
of the 6 patients died during the follow-up.
CONCLUSION: For cases with woolly hair and palmoplantar keratoderma, the 
physician should provide a cardiac assessment, considering Naxos/Carvajal 
disease associated with cardiomyopathy. When an early diagnosis is made, the 
life expectancy may be increased by treatment of heart failure and arrhythmias; 
also, genetic counseling should be performed.

DOI: 10.5152/akd.2014.5413
PMCID: PMC5779178
PMID: 25430408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


968. Sports Med. 2015 Jun;45(6):775-800. doi: 10.1007/s40279-014-0286-3.

An Updated Review of Interventions that Include Promotion of Physical Activity 
for Adult Men.

Bottorff JL(1), Seaton CL, Johnson ST, Caperchione CM, Oliffe JL, More K, 
Jaffer-Hirji H, Tillotson SM.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Healthy Living and Chronic Disease Prevention, and School of 
Nursing, University of British Columbia, ART223, 3333 University Way, Kelowna, 
BC, V1V 1V7, Canada, joan.bottorff@ubc.ca.

The marked disparity in life expectancy between men and women suggests men are a 
vulnerable group requiring targeted health promotion programs. As such, there is 
an increasing need for health promotion strategies that effectively engage men 
with their health and/or illness management. Programs that promote physical 
activity could significantly improve the health of men. Although George et al. 
(Sports Med 42(3):281, 30) reviewed physical activity programs involving adult 
males published between 1990 and 2010, developments in men's health have 
prompted the emergence of new sex- and gender-specific approaches targeting men. 
The purpose of this review was to: (1) extend and update the review undertaken 
by George et al. (Sports Med 42(3):281, 30) concerning the effectiveness of 
physical activity programs in males, and (2) evaluate the integration of 
gender-specific influences in the content, design, and delivery of men's health 
promotion programs. A search of MEDLINE, CINAHL, ScienceDirect, Web of Science, 
PsycINFO, the Cochrane Library, and the SPORTDiscus databases for articles 
published between January 2010 and August 2014 was conducted. In total, 35 
studies, involving evaluations of 31 programs, were identified. Findings 
revealed that a variety of techniques and modes of delivery could effectively 
promote physical activity among men. Though the majority of programs were 
offered exclusively to men, 12 programs explicitly integrated gender-related 
influences in male-specific programs in ways that recognized men's interests and 
preferences. Innovations in male-only programs that focus on masculine ideals 
and gender influences to engage men in increasing their physical activity hold 
potential for informing strategies to promote other areas of men's health.

DOI: 10.1007/s40279-014-0286-3
PMCID: PMC4440891
PMID: 25430599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


969. Endocr Connect. 2015 Mar;4(1):9-17. doi: 10.1530/EC-14-0119. Epub 2014 Nov
27.

Bone metastases and skeletal-related events from neuroendocrine tumors.

Van Loon K(1), Zhang L(2), Keiser J(2), Carrasco C(2), Glass K(2), Ramirez 
MT(2), Bobiak S(2), Nakakura EK(2), Venook AP(2), Shah MH(2), Bergsland EK(2).

Author information:
(1)The UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer CenterUniversity of 
California, San Francisco, 1600 Divisadero Street, UCSF Box 1770, San Francisco, 
California 94143, USAThe Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer 
CenterColumbus, Ohio 43210, USANational Comprehensive Cancer NetworkFort 
Washington, Pennsylvania 19034, USA katherine.vanloon@ucsf.edu.
(2)The UCSF Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer CenterUniversity of 
California, San Francisco, 1600 Divisadero Street, UCSF Box 1770, San Francisco, 
California 94143, USAThe Ohio State University Comprehensive Cancer 
CenterColumbus, Ohio 43210, USANational Comprehensive Cancer NetworkFort 
Washington, Pennsylvania 19034, USA.

Neuroendocrine tumors (NETs) metastasize to bone; however, a multi-institution 
evaluation of the natural history and complications of bone metastases across 
multiple NET subtypes has not, to our knowledge, previously been conducted. At 
two tertiary academic centers, we identified patients with bone metastases from 
databases of patients with a diagnosis of NET between 2004 and 2008. Detection 
of bone metastases, occurrence of skeletal-related events (SREs), and 
interventions were analyzed using summary statistics and categorical methods. 
Time-to-event data were assessed using Kaplan-Meier estimates and log-rank 
tests. Between 2004 and 2008, 82 out of 691 NET patients (12%) were reported to 
have bone metastases. Of the 82 patients with bone metastases, 55% were men and 
their median age was 49. Bone metastases occurred in 25% of pheochromocytomas 
and paragangliomas, 20% of high-grade neuroendocrine carcinomas, 9% of carcinoid 
tumors, and 8% of pancreatic NETs. At time of detection of bone metastases, 60% 
reported symptoms, including pain; 10% developed cord compression, 9% suffered a 
pathological fracture, and 4% developed hypercalcemia. Occurrence of SREs did 
not differ significantly with regard to tumor histology. Of patients with bone 
metastases, 67 (82%) received at least one form of bone-directed treatment, 50% 
received radiation, 45% received a bisphosphonate, 18% underwent surgery, 11% 
received (131)I-MIBG, 5% received denosumab, and 46% were treated with more than 
one treatment modality. Bone metastases occur in a substantial number of 
patients diagnosed with NETs. Patients are often symptomatic and many develop 
SREs. Given the recent therapeutic advances and increasing life expectancy of 
patients with NETs, development of guidelines for surveillance and clinical care 
of bone metastases from NETs is needed.

© 2015 The authors.

DOI: 10.1530/EC-14-0119
PMCID: PMC4285767
PMID: 25430999


970. Laryngoscope. 2015 May;125(5):1056-61. doi: 10.1002/lary.25054. Epub 2014
Nov  28.

EQ-5D-derived health utility values in patients undergoing surgery for chronic 
rhinosinusitis.

Remenschneider AK(1), Scangas G, Meier JC, Gray ST, Holbrook EH, Gliklich RE, 
Metson R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Otolaryngology, Massachusetts Eye and Ear Infirmary, Department 
of Otology and Laryngology, Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, 
U.S.A.

OBJECTIVES/HYPOTHESIS: Health utility value (HUV) is an index used to measure 
health-related quality of life for the valuation and comparison of treatments. 
The Euroqol 5-Dimension (EQ-5D) questionnaire is a widely used method for 
determining HUV, but it has not been applied for this purpose in patients with 
chronic rhinosinusitis (CRS) who undergo sinus surgery.
STUDY DESIGN: Prospective cohort study.
METHODS: Patients with CRS, who were recruited from 11 different otolaryngologic 
practices, completed the EQ-5D questionnaire at baseline, as well as 3, 12, and 
24 months after surgery. HUVs calculated from the results of this questionnaire 
were compared to those reported in the general U.S. population and to patients 
suffering from other chronic diseases.
RESULTS: Baseline EQ-5D surveys were completed by 242 patients. Mean baseline 
HUV (standard deviation) was 0.81 (0.13). Female gender, revision surgery, and 
the use of intraoperative image guidance were associated was significantly lower 
baseline values. HUV rose at 3 months to 0.89 (0.12) and remained improved at 12 
months 0.88 (0.10) and 24 months 0.89 (0.10) (P < 0.001). Baseline HUV in CRS 
(0.81[0.13]) is lower than the general U.S. population (0.85 [0.18]) and appears 
appropriately positioned among other common chronic conditions including asthma 
(0.82-0.92), migraine (0.81-0.91), and seasonal allergies (0.94).
CONCLUSIONS: Sinus surgery provides improvement in HUV in patients with CRS. 
These values may be paired with costs of care to perform cost-utility analysis 
on this group of patients.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 2c.

© 2014 The American Laryngological, Rhinological and Otological Society, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/lary.25054
PMID: 25431320 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


971. Biochem J. 2015 Feb 15;466(1):123-35. doi: 10.1042/BJ20140935.

Raptor ablation in skeletal muscle decreases Cav1.1 expression and affects the 
function of the excitation-contraction coupling supramolecular complex.

Lopez RJ(1), Mosca B(1), Treves S(1), Maj M(1), Bergamelli L(2), Calderon JC(3), 
Bentzinger CF(4), Romanino K(4), Hall MN(4), Rüegg MA(4), Delbono O(5), Caputo 
C(3), Zorzato F(1).

Author information:
(1)*Departments of Anesthesia and of Biomedicine, Basel University Hospital, 
Hebelstrasse 20, 4031 Basel, Switzerland.
(2)†Department of Life Sciences, General Pathology section, University of 
Ferrara, Via Borsari 46, 44100 Ferrara, Italy.
(3)‡Laboratorio de Fisiología Celular, Centro de Biofísica y Bioquímica, 
Instituto Venezolano de Investigaciones Científicas (IVIC), Apartado 20632, 
1020A Caracas, Venezuela.
(4)§Biozentrum, University of Basel, CH-4056 Basel, Switzerland.
(5)║Department of Internal Medicine, Section on Gerontology and Geriatric 
Medicine, Wake Forest University School of Medicine, Winston-Salem, NC 27157, 
U.S.A.

The protein mammalian target of rapamycin (mTOR) is a serine/threonine kinase 
regulating a number of biochemical pathways controlling cell growth. mTOR exists 
in two complexes termed mTORC1 and mTORC2. Regulatory associated protein of mTOR 
(raptor) is associated with mTORC1 and is essential for its function. Ablation 
of raptor in skeletal muscle results in several phenotypic changes including 
decreased life expectancy, increased glycogen deposits and alterations of the 
twitch kinetics of slow fibres. In the present paper, we show that in 
muscle-specific raptor knockout (RamKO), the bulk of glycogen phosphorylase (GP) 
is mainly associated in its cAMP-non-stimulated form with sarcoplasmic reticulum 
(SR) membranes. In addition, 3[H]-ryanodine and 3[H]-PN200-110 equilibrium 
binding show a ryanodine to dihydropyridine receptors (DHPRs) ratio of 0.79 and 
1.35 for wild-type (WT) and raptor KO skeletal muscle membranes respectively. 
Peak amplitude and time to peak of the global calcium transients evoked by 
supramaximal field stimulation were not different between WT and raptor KO. 
However, the increase in the voltage sensor-uncoupled RyRs leads to an increase 
of both frequency and mass of elementary calcium release events (ECRE) induced 
by hyper-osmotic shock in flexor digitorum brevis (FDB) fibres from raptor KO. 
The present study shows that the protein composition and function of the 
molecular machinery involved in skeletal muscle excitation-contraction (E-C) 
coupling is affected by mTORC1 signalling.

DOI: 10.1042/BJ20140935
PMCID: PMC4843809
PMID: 25431931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


972. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):17-22. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2439.

North Africa & Middle East.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2439
PMID: 25432107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


973. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):23-8. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2442.

Sub-Saharan Africa.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2442
PMID: 25432108 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


974. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):29-34. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2443.

North America.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2443
PMID: 25432109 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


975. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):35-40. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2444.

Latin America & Caribbean.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2444
PMID: 25432110 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


976. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):41-6. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2445.

Asia Pacific high income.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2445
PMID: 25432111 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


977. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):47-52. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2446.

Australasia.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2446
PMID: 25432112 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


978. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):53-8. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2447.

East Asia.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2447
PMID: 25432113 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


979. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):59-64. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2448.

Southeast Asia.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2448
PMID: 25432114 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


980. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):65-70. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2449.

South Asia.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2449
PMID: 25432115 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


981. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):71-6. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2450.

Central Europe.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2450
PMID: 25432116 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


982. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):77-82. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2451.

Eastern Europe & Central Asia.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2451
PMID: 25432117 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


983. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):83-8. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2452.

Western Europe.

Moran A.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.03.2452
PMID: 25432118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


984. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):101-6. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.01.003.

The global burden of hemorrhagic stroke: a summary of findings from the GBD 2010 
study.

Krishnamurthi RV(1), Moran AE(2), Forouzanfar MH(3), Bennett DA(4), Mensah 
GA(5), Lawes CM(6), Barker-Collo S(7), Connor M(8), Roth GA(9), Sacco R(10), 
Ezzati M(11), Naghavi M(3), Murray CJ(3), Feigin VL(12); Global Burden of 
Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors 2010 Study Stroke Expert Group.

Collaborators: Anderson LM, Barker-Collo S, Bennett DA, Connor M, Ezzati M, 
Feigin VL, Forouzanfar MH, Krishnamurthi RV, Lawes CM, Mensah GA, Moran AE, 
O'Donnell M, Pandian JD, Parag V, Sacco R, Shinohara Y, Truelsen T, 
Venketasubramanian N, Witt E, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health and Environmental Studies, National Institute for Stroke 
and Applied Neurosciences, Auckland University of Technology, Auckland, New 
Zealand. Electronic address: rita.krishnamurthi@ut.ac.nz.
(2)Division of General Medicine, Columbia University Medical Centre, New York, 
NY, USA.
(3)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(4)Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit, Nuffield 
Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(5)Center for Translation Research and Implementation Science (CTRIS), National 
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.
(6)National Institute for Health Innovation, University of Auckland, Auckland, 
New Zealand.
(7)School of Psychology, the University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(8)NHS Borders, Melrose, UK; Division of Clinical Neurosciences, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; Bute Medical School, University of St. Andrews, St. 
Andrews, UK; School of Public Health, University of the Witwatersrand, 
Johannesburg, South Africa.
(9)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA; Division of Cardiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
USA.
(10)Miller School of Medicine, University of Miami, Miami, FL, USA.
(11)MRC-HPA Centre for Environment and Health, Department of Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Imperial College London, London, UK.
(12)Faculty of Health and Environmental Studies, National Institute for Stroke 
and Applied Neurosciences, Auckland University of Technology, Auckland, New 
Zealand.

This report summarizes the findings of the GBD 2010 (Global Burden of Diseases, 
Injuries, and Risk Factors) study for hemorrhagic stroke (HS). Multiple 
databases were searched for relevant studies published between 1990 and 2010. 
The GBD 2010 study provided standardized estimates of the incidence, mortality, 
mortality-to-incidence ratios (MIR), and disability-adjusted life years (DALY) 
lost for HS (including intracerebral hemorrhage and subarachnoid hemorrhage) by 
age, sex, and income level (high-income countries [HIC]; low- and middle-income 
countries [LMIC]) for 21 GBD 2010 regions in 1990, 2005, and 2010. In 2010, 
there were 5.3 million cases of HS and over 3.0 million deaths due to HS. There 
was a 47% increase worldwide in the absolute number of HS cases. The largest 
proportion of HS incident cases (80%) and deaths (63%) occurred in LMIC 
countries. There were 62.8 million DALY lost (86% in LMIC) due to HS. The 
overall age-standardized incidence rate of HS per 100,000 person-years in 2010 
was 48.41 (95% confidence interval [CI]: 45.44 to 52.13) in HIC and 99.43 (95% 
CI: 85.37 to 116.28) in LMIC, and 81.52 (95% CI: 72.27 to 92.82) globally. The 
age-standardized incidence of HS increased by 18.5% worldwide between 1990 and 
2010. In HIC, there was a reduction in incidence of HS by 8% (95% CI: 1% to 
15%), mortality by 38% (95% CI: 32% to 43%), DALY by 39% (95% CI: 32% to 44%), 
and MIR by 27% (95% CI: 19% to 35%) in the last 2 decades. In LMIC countries, 
there was a significant increase in the incidence of HS by 22% (95% CI: 5% to 
30%), whereas there was a significant reduction in mortality rates of 23% (95% 
CI: -3% to 36%), DALY lost of 25% (95% CI: 7% to 38%), and MIR by 36% (95% CI: 
16% to 49%). There were significant regional differences in incidence rates of 
HS, with the highest rates in LMIC regions such as sub-Saharan Africa and East 
Asia, and lowest rates in High Income North America and Western Europe. The 
worldwide burden of HS has increased over the last 2 decades in terms of 
absolute numbers of HS incident events. The majority of the burden of HS is 
borne by LMIC. Rates for HS incidence, mortality, and DALY lost, as well as MIR 
decreased in the past 2 decades in HIC, but increased significantly in LMIC 
countries, particularly in those patients ≤75 years. HS affected people at a 
younger age in LMIC than in HIC. The lowest incidence and mortality rates in 
2010 were in High Income North America, Australasia, and Western Europe, whereas 
the highest rates were in Central Asia, Southeast Asia, and sub-Saharan Africa. 
These results suggest that reducing the burden of HS is a priority particularly 
in LMIC. The GBD 2010 findings may be a useful resource for planning strategies 
to reduce the global burden of HS.

Copyright © 2014 World Heart Federation (Geneva). Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.01.003
PMID: 25432119 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


985. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):107-12. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.01.001.

The global burden of ischemic stroke: findings of the GBD 2010 study.

Bennett DA(1), Krishnamurthi RV(2), Barker-Collo S(3), Forouzanfar MH(4), 
Naghavi M(4), Connor M(5), Lawes CM(6), Moran AE(7), Anderson LM(8), Roth GA(9), 
Mensah GA(10), Ezzati M(11), Murray CJ(4), Feigin VL(2); Global Burden of 
Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors 2010 Study Stroke Expert Group.

Collaborators: Anderson LM, Barker-Collo S, Bennett DA, Connor M, Ezzati M, 
Feigin VL, Forouzanfar MH, Krishnamurthi RV, Lawes CM, Mensah GA, Moran AE, 
O'Donnell M, Pandian JD, Parag V, Sacco R, Shinohara Y, Truelsen T, 
Venketasubramanian N, Witt E, Wang W.

Author information:
(1)Clinical Trial Service Unit and Epidemiological Studies Unit, Nuffield 
Department of Population Health, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK. Electronic 
address: derrick.bennett@ctsu.ox.ac.uk.
(2)Faculty of Health and Environmental Studies, National Institute for Stroke 
and Applied Neurosciences, AUT University, Auckland, New Zealand.
(3)Department of Psychology, the University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(4)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA.
(5)NHS Borders, Melrose, UK; Division of Clinical Neurosciences, University of 
Edinburgh, Edinburgh, UK; School of Public Health, University of the 
Witwatersrand, Johannesburg, South Africa.
(6)National Institute for Health Innovation, University of Auckland, Auckland, 
New Zealand.
(7)Division of General Medicine, Columbia University Medical Center, New York, 
NY, USA.
(8)Department of Epidemiology, School of Public Health, University of 
Washington, Seattle, WA, USA.
(9)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA; Division of Cardiology, University of Washington, Seattle, WA, 
USA.
(10)Center for Translation Research and Implementation Science (CTRIS), National 
Heart, Lung, and Blood Institute, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, MD, 
USA.
(11)MRC-HPA Centre for Environment and Health, Department of Epidemiology and 
Biostatistics, School of Public Health, Imperial College London, Medical Faculty 
Building, Norfolk Place, London, UK.

This study sought to summarize the findings of the GBD 2010 (Global Burden of 
Diseases, Injuries, and Risk Factors) study for ischemic stroke (IS) and to 
report the impact of tobacco smoking on IS burden in specific countries. The GBD 
2010 searched multiple databases to identify relevant studies published between 
1990 and 2010. The GBD 2010 analytical tools were used to calculate 
region-specific IS incidence, mortality, mortality-to-incidence ratio, and 
disability-adjusted life years (DALY) lost, including 95% uncertainty intervals 
(UI). In 2010, there were approximately 11,569,000 incident IS events (63% in 
low- and middle-income countries [LMIC]), approximately 2,835,000 deaths from IS 
(57% in LMIC), and approximately 39,389,000 DALY lost due to IS (64% in LMIC). 
From 1990 to 2010, there was a significant increase in global IS burden in terms 
of absolute number of people with incident IS (37% increase), deaths from IS 
(21% increase), and DALY lost due to IS (18% increase). Age-standardized IS 
incidence, DALY lost, mortality, and mortality-to-incidence ratios in 
high-income countries declined by about 13% (95% UI: 6% to 18%), 34% (95% UI: 
16% to 36%), and 37% (95% UI: 19% to 39%), 21% (95% UI: 10% to 27%), 
respectively. However, in LMIC there was a modest 6% increase in the 
age-standardized incidence of IS (95% UI: -7% to 18%) despite modest reductions 
in mortality rates, DALY lost, and mortality-to-incidence ratios. There was 
considerable variability among country-specific estimates within broad GBD 
regions. China, Russia, and India were ranked highest in both 1990 and 2010 for 
IS deaths attributable to tobacco consumption. Although age-standardized IS 
mortality rates have declined over the last 2 decades, the absolute global 
burden of IS is increasing, with the bulk of DALY lost in LMIC. Tobacco 
consumption is an important modifiable risk factor for IS, and in both 1990 and 
2010, the top ranked countries for IS deaths that could be attributed to tobacco 
consumption were China, Russia, and India. Tobacco control policies that target 
both smoking initiation and smoking cessation can play an important role in the 
prevention of IS. In China, Russia, and India, even modest reductions in the 
number of current smokers could see millions of lives saved due to prevention of 
IS alone.

Copyright © 2014 World Heart Federation (Geneva). Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gheart.2014.01.001
PMID: 25432120 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


986. Glob Heart. 2014 Mar;9(1):145-158.e21. doi: 10.1016/j.gheart.2013.12.008.

Global and regional burden of death and disability from peripheral artery 
disease: 21 world regions, 1990 to 2010.

