RESULTS: EBV therapy led to clinically meaningful disease restaging at 12 months 
(37.8% of the cohort improved staging, compared to 0% in the controls). Over 5 
years, EBV therapy was projected to increase survival from 66.4 to 70.7%, and to 
add 0.22 QALYs. Costs were estimated to increase by EUR 10,299, resulting in an 
ICER of EUR 46,322 per QALY. Over 10 years, 0.41 QALYs were gained at an 
additional cost of EUR 10,425, yielding an ICER of EUR 25,142 per QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: Our model-based analysis suggests that EBV therapy leads to 
clinically meaningful changes in disease staging and progression when compared 
to medical management, with resulting gains in unadjusted and quality-adjusted 
life expectancy. Our results indicate that EBV therapy is cost-effective in the 
German health-care system.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000368088
PMID: 25277549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


510. Pediatr Nephrol. 2015 Mar;30(3):459-68. doi: 10.1007/s00467-014-2955-8. Epub
 2014 Oct 3.

Morbidity in children with frequently relapsing nephrosis: 10-year follow-up of 
a randomized controlled trial.

Ishikura K(1), Yoshikawa N, Nakazato H, Sasaki S, Nakanishi K, Matsuyama T, Ito 
S, Hamasaki Y, Yata N, Ando T, Iijima K, Honda M; Japanese Study Group of Renal 
Disease in Children.

Collaborators: Araki Y, Awazu M, Furuse A, Goto M, Hamada R, Hashimoto J, Hatae 
K, Hataya H, Hiramatsu M, Hiramoto R, Izumi I, Kaku Y, Kameda A, Kamezaki K, 
Kamei K, Kamitsuji H, Kitagawa K, Matayoshi Y, Matsumoto S, Minato T, Miyamoto 
H, Nishino M, Nomura A, Nozu K, Ohwada Y, Okamoto S, Sakai T, Sako M, Sato T, 
Tamura K, Tanaka R, Tanaka Y, Tsutsumi Y, Yoneda K, Yoshimura-Furuhata M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Tokyo Metropolitan Children's Medical Center, 
2-8-29 Musashidai, Fuchu, Tokyo, 183-8561, Japan, kenzo@ii.e-mansion.com.

Comment in
    Pediatr Nephrol. 2015 Nov;30(11):2051-2.

BACKGROUND: To investigate the long-term outcome in children with frequently 
relapsing nephrotic syndrome (FRNS) we conducted a follow-up of a previous 
randomized controlled trial (RCT) 10 years after the initiation of the treatment 
protocol.
METHODS: We previously conducted an RCT on the efficacy of cyclosporine for 
treating children with FRNS. After 2 years of treatment, a recommended a 
management protocol of steroids, and immunosuppressants was provided.
RESULTS: Valid information was available for 46 of the 56 patients (82.1 %) 
enrolled in the original RCT. The median follow-up period was 10.3 years from 
the start of protocol treatment with cyclosporine. At last follow-up (mean age 
18.7 years), only ten patients (21.7 %) showed disease-free remission (no 
relapse for at least 2 years). In contrast, 23 (50.0 %) continued to relapse 
frequently or were on immunosuppressants, eight patients (17.4 %) had infrequent 
relapses without immunosuppressants. Adverse effects attributable to treatment 
included short stature (6 patients), osteoporosis (six patients), obesity (4 
patients), cataracts (3 patients) and hypertension (3 patients). No lethal event 
or renal dysfunction occurred during follow-up.
CONCLUSIONS: This 10-year follow-up study shows that most children with FRNS 
experience relapses after 2 years of cyclosporine treatment, in adolescence and 
into adulthood. Outcomes in terms of life expectancy and renal function are 
favorable.

DOI: 10.1007/s00467-014-2955-8
PMID: 25277597 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


511. J Am Heart Assoc. 2014 Oct 2;3(5):e001117. doi: 10.1161/JAHA.114.001117.

Association of 10-year and lifetime predicted cardiovascular disease risk with 
subclinical atherosclerosis in South Asians: findings from the Mediators of 
Atherosclerosis in South Asians Living in America (MASALA) study.

Kandula NR(1), Kanaya AM(2), Liu K(1), Lee JY(1), Herrington D(3), Hulley SB(2), 
Persell SD(1), Lloyd-Jones DM(1), Huffman MD(1).

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University, Chicago, IL (N.R.K., K.L., J.Y.L., S.D.P., D.M.L.J., 
M.D.H.).
(2)University of California, San Francisco, CA (A.M.K., S.B.H.).
(3)Wake Forest University Medical Center, Winston-Salem, NC (D.H.).

BACKGROUND: Ten-year and lifetime cardiovascular risk assessment algorithms have 
been adopted into atherosclerotic cardiovascular disease (ASCVD) prevention 
guidelines, but these prediction models are not based on South Asian populations 
and may underestimate the risk in Indians, Pakistanis, Bangladeshis, Nepali, and 
Sri Lankans in the United States. Little is known about ASCVD risk prediction 
and intermediate endpoints such as subclinical atherosclerosis in US individuals 
of South Asian ancestry.
METHODS AND RESULTS: South Asians (n=893) from the Mediators of Atherosclerosis 
in South Asians Living in America (MASALA) study who were 40 to 79 years and 
free of ASCVD were included. Ten-year ASCVD predicted risk was calculated using 
the 2013 Pooled Cohort Equations. Lifetime predicted risk was based on risk 
factor burden. Baseline levels of subclinical atherosclerosis (coronary artery 
calcium [CAC] and carotid intima media thickness [CIMT]) were compared across 
10-year and lifetime risk strata: (1) high (≥7.5%) 10-year and low (<7.5%) 
10-year risk; (2) high (≥39%) lifetime and low (<39%) lifetime risk. South Asian 
men and women with high 10-year predicted risk had a significantly greater CAC 
burden than those with low 10-year risk. South Asians with high lifetime 
predicted risk had a significantly increased odds for CAC higher than 0 (odds 
ratio: men 1.97; 95% CI, 1.2 to 3.2; women 3.14; 95% CI, 1.5, 6.6). Associations 
between risk strata and CIMT were also present.
CONCLUSION: This study is the first to provide evidence that contemporary ASCVD 
risk assessment algorithms derived from non-Hispanic white and African-American 
samples can successfully identify substantial differences in atherosclerotic 
burden in US South Asians.

© 2014 The Authors. Published on behalf of the American Heart Association, Inc., 
by Wiley Blackwell.

DOI: 10.1161/JAHA.114.001117
PMCID: PMC4323809
PMID: 25277669 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


512. Demography. 2014 Oct;51(5):1755-73. doi: 10.1007/s13524-014-0328-3.

Trends in mortality decrease and economic growth.

Niu G(1), Melenberg B.

Author information:
(1)Research Institute of Economics and Management (RIEM), Southwestern 
University of Finance and Economics, Chengdu, People's Republic of China, 
610074, g.niu@uvt.nl.

The vast literature on extrapolative stochastic mortality models focuses mainly 
on the extrapolation of past mortality trends and summarizes the trends by one 
or more latent factors. However, the interpretation of these trends is typically 
not very clear. On the other hand, explanation methods are trying to link 
mortality dynamics with observable factors. This serves as an intermediate step 
between the two methods. We perform a comprehensive analysis on the relationship 
between the latent trend in mortality dynamics and the trend in economic growth 
represented by gross domestic product (GDP). Subsequently, the Lee-Carter 
framework is extended through the introduction of GDP as an additional factor 
next to the latent factor, which provides a better fit and better interpretable 
forecasts.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-014-0328-3
PMID: 25277750 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


513. Sci Total Environ. 2015 Jan 1;502:434-47. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.09.016.  Epub 2014 Sep 29.

Reliability analysis of nutrient removal from stormwater runoff with green 
sorption media under varying influent conditions.

Jones J(1), Chang NB(2), Wanielista MP(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Civil, Environmental, and Construction Engineering, University 
of Central Florida, Orlando, FL, United States. Electronic address: 
jamielee243@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Civil, Environmental, and Construction Engineering, University 
of Central Florida, Orlando, FL, United States. Electronic address: 
nchang@ucf.edu.
(3)Department of Civil, Environmental, and Construction Engineering, University 
of Central Florida, Orlando, FL, United States. Electronic address: 
Martin.Wanielista@ucf.edu.

To support nutrient removal, various stormwater treatment technologies have been 
developed via the use of green materials, such as sawdust, tire crumbs, sand, 
clay, sulfur, and limestone, as typical constituents of filter media mixes. 
These materials aid in the physiochemical sorption and precipitation of 
orthophosphates as well as in the biological transformation of ammonia, nitrates 
and nitrites. However, these processes are dependent upon influent conditions 
such as hydraulic residence time, influent orthophosphate concentrations, and 
other chemical species present in the inflow. This study aims to compare the 
physiochemical removal of orthophosphate by isotherm and column tests under 
differing influent conditions to realize the reliability of orthophosphate 
removal process with the aid of green sorption media. The green sorption media 
of interest in this study is composed of a 5:2:2:1 (by volume) mixture of cement 
sand, tire crumb, fine expanded clay, and limestone. Scenarios of manipulating 
the hydraulic residence time of the water from 18 min and 60 min, the influent 
dissolved phosphorus concentrations of 1.0 mg·L(-1) and 0.5 mg·L(-1), and 
influent water types of distilled and pond water, were all investigated in the 
column tests. Experimental data were compared with the outputs from the Thomas 
Model based on orthophosphate removal to shed light on the equilibrium condition 
versus kinetic situation. With ANOVA tests, significant differences were 
confirmed between the experimental data sets of the breakthrough curves in the 
column tests. SEM imaging analysis helps to deepen the understanding of pore 
structures and pore networks of meta-materials being used in the green sorption 
media. Life expectancy curves derived from the output of Thomas Model may be 
applicable for future system design of engineering processes.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.09.016
PMID: 25278294 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


514. Am J Infect Control. 2014 Oct;42(10):1044-8. doi:
10.1016/j.ajic.2014.06.029.

National HIV/AIDS mortality, prevalence, and incidence rates are associated with 
the Human Development Index.

Lou LX(1), Chen Y(2), Yu CH(2), Li YM(3), Ye J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, College of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(2)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China.
(3)Department of Gastroenterology, The First Affiliated Hospital, College of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
zlym@zju.edu.cn.
(4)Department of Ophthalmology, The Second Affiliated Hospital, College of 
Medicine, Zhejiang University, Hangzhou, China. Electronic address: 
yejuan@zju.edu.cn.

BACKGROUND: HIV/AIDS is a worldwide threat to human health with mortality, 
prevalence, and incidence rates varying widely. We evaluated the association 
between the global HIV/AIDS epidemic and national socioeconomic development.
METHODS: We obtained global age-standardized HIV/AIDS mortality, prevalence, and 
incidence rates from World Health Statistics Report of the World Health 
Organization. The human development indexes (HDIs) of 141 countries were 
obtained from a Human Development Report. Countries were divided into 4 groups 
according to the HDI distribution. We explored the association between HIV/AIDS 
epidemic and HDI information using Spearman correlation analysis, regression 
analysis, and the Kruskal-Wallis test.
RESULTS: HIV/AIDS mortality, prevalence, and incidence rates were inversely 
correlated with national HDI (r = -0.675, -0.519, and -0.398, respectively; P < 
.001), as well as the 4 indicators of HDI (ie, life expectancy at birth, mean 
years of schooling, expected years of schooling, and gross national income per 
capita). Low HDI countries had higher HIV/AIDS mortality, prevalence, and 
incidence rates than that of medium, high, and very high HDI countries. Quantile 
regression results indicated that HDI had a greater negative effect on the 
HIV/AIDS epidemic in countries with more severe HIV/AIDS epidemic.
CONCLUSIONS: Less-developed countries are likely to have more severe HIV/AIDS 
epidemic. There is a need to pay more attention to HIV/AIDS control in 
less-developed countries, where lower socioeconomic status might have 
accelerated the HIV/AIDS epidemic more rapidly.

Copyright © 2014 Association for Professionals in Infection Control and 
Epidemiology, Inc. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ajic.2014.06.029
PMID: 25278391 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


515. Clin Epidemiol. 2014 Sep 23;6:309-31. doi: 10.2147/CLEP.S68889. eCollection 
2014.

Global prevalence and incidence of traumatic spinal cord injury.

Singh A(1), Tetreault L(1), Kalsi-Ryan S(1), Nouri A(1), Fehlings MG(1).

Author information:
(1)Toronto Western Research Institute, Toronto Western Hospital, Toronto, 
Ontario, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Spinal cord injury (SCI) is a traumatic event that impacts a 
patient's physical, psychological, and social well-being and places substantial 
financial burden on health care systems. To determine the true impact of SCI, 
this systematic review aims to summarize literature reporting on either the 
incidence or prevalence of SCI.
METHODS: A systematic search was conducted using PubMed, MEDLINE, MEDLINE in 
process, EMBASE, Cochrane Controlled Trial Register, and Cochrane Database of 
Systematic Reviews to identify relevant literature published through June 2013. 
We sought studies that provided regional, provincial/state, or national data on 
the incidence of SCI or reported estimates of disease prevalence. The level of 
evidence of each study was rated using a scale that evaluated study design, 
methodology, sampling bias, and precision of estimates.
RESULTS: The initial search yielded 5,874 articles, 48 of which met the 
inclusion criteria. Forty-four studies estimated the incidence of SCI and nine 
reported the prevalence, with five discussing both. Of the incidence studies, 14 
provided figures at a regional, ten at a state or provincial level and 21 at a 
national level. The prevalence of SCI was highest in the United States of 
America (906 per million) and lowest in the Rhone-Alpes region, France (250 per 
million) and Helsinki, Finland (280 per million). With respect to states and 
provinces in North America, the crude annual incidence of SCI was highest in 
Alaska (83 per million) and Mississippi (77 per million) and lowest in Alabama 
(29.4 per million), despite a large percentage of violence injuries (21.2%). 
Annual incidences were above 50 per million in the Hualien County in Taiwan 
(56.1 per million), the central Portugal region (58 per million), and Olmsted 
County in Minnesota (54.8 per million) and were lower than 20 per million in 
Taipei, Taiwan (14.6 per million), the Rhone-Alpes region in France (12.7 per 
million), Aragon, Spain (12.1 per million), Southeast Turkey (16.9 per million), 
and Stockholm, Sweden (19.5 per million). The highest national incidence was 
49.1 per million in New Zealand, and the lowest incidences were in Fiji (10.0 
per million) and Spain (8.0 per million). The majority of studies showed a high 
male-to-female ratio and an age of peak incidence of younger than 30 years old. 
Traffic accidents were typically the most common cause of SCI, followed by falls 
in the elderly population.
CONCLUSION: This review demonstrates that the incidence, prevalence, and 
causation of SCI differs between developing and developed countries and suggests 
that management and preventative strategies need to be tailored to regional 
trends. The rising aging population in westernized countries also indicates that 
traumatic SCI secondary to falls may become an increasing public health 
challenge and that incidence among the elderly may rise with increasing life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.2147/CLEP.S68889
PMCID: PMC4179833
PMID: 25278785


516. Semin Thromb Hemost. 2014 Oct;40(7):736-40. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1390002.
Epub  2014 Oct 3.

Venous thromboembolism in tropical Australia and in Indigenous Australians.

Szabo F(1), Marshall C(2), Huynh DK(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Royal Darwin Hospital, Darwin, NT, Australia.
(2)Medical Department and Hospital In The Home, Royal Darwin Hospital, Darwin, 
NT, Australia.
(3)Medical Department, Royal Darwin Hospital, Darwin, NT, Australia.

There is a paucity of data on the incidence of venous thromboembolism (VTE) in 
Australia, particularly amongst Indigenous Australians. We have therefore 
conducted a retrospective review of all cases of deep vein thrombosis and 
pulmonary embolism over a 24 months' period in two major hospitals of the 
Northern Territory (NT). A total of 429 VTE diagnoses were recorded over a 
2-year period and 71 of 429 (17%) patients were Indigenous Australians. The 
overall incidence rate was 0.9 per 1,000 person-year for the population of the 
NT with a rate of 0.5 per 1,000 person-year for Indigenous Australians versus 1 
per 1,000 person-year for non-Indigenous Australians. Of the 71, 39 (55%) of the 
VTE cases in the Indigenous group occurred in patients younger than 50 years and 
almost half of these (n = 18) were younger than 29 years. Hospitalization was 
found to be a major risk factor for VTE in 20 (38%) of the 54 Indigenous 
Australians of whom 10 (26%) patients were younger than 50 years. Although the 
rate of VTE in Indigenous Australians was low, its onset was significantly 
earlier in life and it was often triggered by prolonged hospitalization. VTE 
therefore should be added to the list of adverse outcomes of poor health and 
chronic diseases, which cause disproportional high rates of hospitalization 
amongst Indigenous Australians. The low number of VTE observed in older 
Indigenous patients in our study possibly reflects on the lower life expectancy 
and ongoing wide gap in life expectancy between Indigenous and non-Indigenous 
Australians.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1390002
PMID: 25280015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


517. Ann Allergy Asthma Immunol. 2014 Dec;113(6):630-4. doi: 
10.1016/j.anai.2014.09.003. Epub 2014 Oct 3.

Angioedema deaths in the United States, 1979-2010.

Kim SJ(1), Brooks JC(2), Sheikh J(3), Kaplan MS(3), Goldberg BJ(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Kaiser Permanente Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California. Electronic address: susan.kim@kp.org.
(2)Life Expectancy Project, San Francisco, California.
(3)Department of Allergy and Clinical Immunology, Kaiser Permanente Southern 
California, Los Angeles, California.

BACKGROUND: Hospital admission data indicate that the angioedema incidence has 
increased during the past several decades. Little is known about mortality 
trends.
OBJECTIVES: To count the number of deaths associated with angioedema in the 
United States, investigate correlations with age, sex, race, and other 
contributory causes, and analyze trends from 1979 to 2010.
METHODS: All US death certificates in which angioedema was listed as an 
underlying or contributing cause of death during 1979 to 2010 were analyzed. 
Age-adjusted mortality rates were analyzed by age, sex, and race. Other 
conditions designated as the underlying cause of death were investigated.
RESULTS: From 1979 to 2010, there were 5,758 deaths in which angioedema was 
listed as a contributing cause. The age-adjusted death rate for hereditary 
angioedema decreased from 0.28 (95% confidence interval [CI] 0.25-0.32) to 0.06 
(95% CI 0.05-0.08) per million persons per year. Conversely, mortality for 
angioedema increased from 0.24 (95% CI 0.21-0.27) to 0.34 (95% CI 0.31-0.37) per 
million. Blacks constituted 55% of angioedema deaths that were associated with 
use of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitors. On death certificates that 
listed hereditary angioedema as the underlying cause of death, cancer 
(frequently lymphoma or leukemia) was the second most commonly listed cause.
CONCLUSION: Angioedema-associated deaths were very rare from 1979 to 2010. 
Hereditary angioedema deaths became even more so, whereas nonhereditary 
angioedema deaths increased. Risks associated with angiotensin-converting enzyme 
inhibitors were higher in blacks. Lack of specific coding for acquired 
angioedema most likely explains the observed association between cancer and 
hereditary angioedema. In the future, more granular coding systems may help 
distinguish hereditary from acquired angioedema.

Copyright © 2014 American College of Allergy, Asthma & Immunology. Published by 
Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.anai.2014.09.003
PMID: 25280464 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


518. J Neurol. 2015 Jan;262(1):41-53. doi: 10.1007/s00415-014-7514-5. Epub 2014
Oct  4.

The dopaminergic system in upper limb motor blocks (ULMB) investigated during 
bimanual coordination in Parkinson's disease (PD).

Brown MJ(1), Almeida QJ, Rahimi F.

Author information:
(1)Sun Life Financial Movement Disorders Research and Rehabilitation Centre 
(MDRC), Wilfrid Laurier University, 75 University Avenue West, Waterloo, ON, N2L 
3C5, Canada.

Upper limb motor blocks (ULMB) (inability to initiate or sudden discontinue in 
voluntary movements) have been identified in both unimanual and bimanual tasks 
in individuals with Parkinson's disease (PD). In particular, ULMB have been 
observed during rhythmic bimanual coordination when switching between phase 
patterns which is required (e.g. between in-phase and anti-phase). While 
sensory-perceptual mechanisms have recently been suggested to be involved in 
lower limb freezing, there has been no consensus on the mechanism that evokes 
ULMB or whether motor blocks respond to dopamine replacement like other motor 
symptoms of PD. The current study investigated the occurrence of ULMB in PD 
participants without ('off') and with ('on') dopamine replacement using bimanual 
wrist flexion-extension with external auditory cues. In Experiment 1, 
coordination was performed in either in-phase (simultaneous flexion and 
extension) or anti-phase (asymmetrical flexion and extension between the limbs) 
in one of three sensory conditions: no vision, normal vision or augmented 
vision. Cycle frequency was increased within each trial across seven cycle 
frequencies (0.75-2 Hz). In Experiment 2, coordination was initiated in either 
phase pattern and participants were cued to make an intentional switch between 
phases in the middle of trials. Trials were performed at one of two cycle 
frequencies (1 or 2 Hz) and one of two sensory conditions: no vision or normal 
vision. Healthy age-matched control participants were also investigated in both 
experiments for the occurrence of motor blocks that were measured using 
automated detection from a computer algorithm. The results from Experiment 1 
indicated that increasing cycle frequency resulted in more ULMB in individuals 
with PD during continuous coordinated movement, regardless of dopaminergic 
status, phase pattern or sensory condition. Experiment 2 also confirmed an 
increased occurrence of ULMB with increased cycle frequency. Furthermore, a 
large amount of ULMB were observed when initiating anti-phase coordination at 2 
Hz, as well as after both externally-cued switches and in 'catch trials' with 
distracting auditory cues when no switch was required. Dopamine replacement was 
not found to influence the frequency of ULMB in either experiment. Therefore, 
ULMB likely result from non-hypodopaminergic impairments associated with PD. 
Specifically, ULMB may be caused by an inability to shift attentional control 
under increased cognitive demand that could be associated with hypoactivation in 
motor and prefrontal areas.

DOI: 10.1007/s00415-014-7514-5
PMID: 25280861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


519. Integr Psychol Behav Sci. 2015 Sep;49(3):398-458. doi: 
10.1007/s12124-014-9283-1.

Conceiving "personality": Psychologist's challenges and basic fundamentals of 
the Transdisciplinary Philosophy-of-Science Paradigm for Research on 
Individuals.

Uher J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, London School of Economics and Political Science, 
Houghton Street, London, WC2A 2AE, UK, mail@janauher.com.

Scientists exploring individuals, as such scientists are individuals themselves 
and thus not independent from their objects of research, encounter profound 
challenges; in particular, high risks for anthropo-, ethno- and ego-centric 
biases and various fallacies in reasoning. The Transdisciplinary 
Philosophy-of-Science Paradigm for Research on Individuals (TPS-Paradigm) aims 
to tackle these challenges by exploring and making explicit the philosophical 
presuppositions that are being made and the metatheories and methodologies that 
are used in the field. This article introduces basic fundamentals of the 
TPS-Paradigm including the epistemological principle of complementarity and 
metatheoretical concepts for exploring individuals as living organisms. 
Centrally, the TPS-Paradigm considers three metatheoretical properties (spatial 
location in relation to individuals' bodies, temporal extension, and physicality 
versus "non-physicality") that can be conceived in different forms for various 
kinds of phenomena explored in individuals (morphology, physiology, behaviour, 
the psyche, semiotic representations, artificially modified outer appearances 
and contexts). These properties, as they determine the phenomena's accessibility 
in everyday life and research, are used to elaborate philosophy-of-science 
foundations and to derive general methodological implications for the elementary 
problem of phenomenon-methodology matching and for scientific quantification of 
the various kinds of phenomena studied. On the basis of these foundations, the 
article explores the metatheories and methodologies that are used or needed to 
empirically study each given kind of phenomenon in individuals in general. 
Building on these general implications, the article derives special implications 
for exploring individuals' "personality", which the TPS-Paradigm conceives of as 
individual-specificity in all of the various kinds of phenomena studied in 
individuals.

DOI: 10.1007/s12124-014-9283-1
PMID: 25281293 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


520. Int J Infect Dis. 2014 Nov;28:176-85. doi: 10.1016/j.ijid.2014.08.006. Epub
2014  Oct 2.

Disease burden of selected gastrointestinal pathogens in Australia, 2010.

Gibney KB(1), O'Toole J(2), Sinclair M(2), Leder K(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, The 
Alfred Centre, 99 Commercial Road, Melbourne 3004, Victoria, Australia. 
Electronic address: Katherine.Gibney@monash.edu.
(2)Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash University, The 
Alfred Centre, 99 Commercial Road, Melbourne 3004, Victoria, Australia.

OBJECTIVE: To estimate and compare disease burden attributable to six 
gastrointestinal pathogens (norovirus, rotavirus, Campylobacter, non-typhoidal 
Salmonella, Giardia, and Cryptosporidium) in Australia, 2010.
METHODS: We estimated the number of acute gastroenteritis (AGE) cases and 
deaths, disability-adjusted life years (DALYs), and DALY/case for each pathogen. 
We included AGE cases that did not require medical care. Sequelae were included 
for Campylobacter (Guillain-Barré syndrome, reactive arthritis (ReA), irritable 
bowel syndrome (IBS)) and Salmonella (ReA, IBS).
RESULTS: We estimated 16626069 AGE cases in Australia in 2010 (population 22 
million). Of the pathogens studied, most AGE cases were attributed to norovirus 
(2180145), Campylobacter (774003), and Giardia (614740). Salmonella caused the 
fewest AGE cases (71255) but the most AGE deaths (90). The DALY burden was 
greatest for Campylobacter (18222 DALYs) and Salmonella (3856 DALYs), followed 
by the viral and protozoal pathogens. The average DALY/case was greatest for 
Salmonella (54.1 DALY/1000 cases), followed by Campylobacter (23.5 DALY/1000 
cases).
CONCLUSIONS: The pathogen causing the greatest disease burden varied according 
to the metric used, however DALYs are considered most useful given the 
incorporation of morbidity, mortality, and sequelae. These results can be used 
to prioritize public health interventions toward Salmonella and Campylobacter 
infections and to measure the impact of these interventions.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijid.2014.08.006
PMID: 25281904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


521. J Electromyogr Kinesiol. 2015 Feb;25(1):47-52. doi: 
10.1016/j.jelekin.2014.09.001. Epub 2014 Sep 16.

Comparison of isometric exercises for activating latissimus dorsi against the 
upper body weight.

Park SY(1), Yoo WG(2), An DH(3), Oh JS(3), Lee JH(4), Choi BR(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Therapy, Graduate School, Inje University, Republic of 
Korea.
(2)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Biomedical Science and 
Engineering, Inje University, Republic of Korea, 607 Obangdong, Gimhae, 
Gyeongsangnam-do 621-749, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
won7y@inje.ac.kr.
(3)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Biomedical Science and 
Engineering, Inje University, Republic of Korea, 607 Obangdong, Gimhae, 
Gyeongsangnam-do 621-749, Republic of Korea.
(4)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Nursing and Healthcare Sciences, 
Dong-eui University, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Physical Therapy, College of Medical and Life Sciences, Silla 
University, Republic of Korea.

Because there is little agreement as to which exercise is the most effective for 
activating the latissimus dorsi, and its intramuscular components are rarely 
compared, we investigated the intramuscular components of the latissimus dorsi 
during both trunk and shoulder exercises. Sixteen male subjects performed four 
isometric exercises: inverted row, body lifting, trunk extension, and trunk 
lateral bending. Surface electromyography (sEMG) was used to collect data from 
the medial and lateral components of the latissimus dorsi, lower trapezius, and 
the erector spinae at the 12th thoracic level during the isometric exercises. 
Two-way repeated analysis of variance with two within-subject factors (muscles 
and exercise conditions) was used to determine the significance of differences 
between the muscles and differences between exercise variations. The inverted 
row showed the highest values for the medial latissimus dorsi, which were 
significantly higher than those of the body lifting or trunk extension 
exercises. For the lateral latissimus dorsi, lateral bending showed 
significantly higher muscle activity than the inverted row or trunk extension. 
During body lifting, the % maximum voluntary isometric contraction (MVIC) of the 
erector spinae showed the lowest value, significantly lower than those of the 
other isometric exercises. The inverted row exercise was effective for 
activating the medial latissimus dorsi versus the shoulder depression and trunk 
exertion exercises. The lateral bending and body lifting exercises were 
favorable for activating the lateral component of the latissimus dorsi. 
Evaluating trunk lateral bending is essential for examining the function of the 
latissimus dorsi.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jelekin.2014.09.001
PMID: 25282576 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


522. Forensic Sci Int Genet. 2015 Jan;14:50-60. doi:
10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.08.013.  Epub 2014 Aug 30.

A SNaPshot of next generation sequencing for forensic SNP analysis.

Daniel R(1), Santos C(2), Phillips C(2), Fondevila M(2), van Oorschot RA(3), 
Carracedo A(4), Lareu MV(2), McNevin D(5).

Author information:
(1)Office of the Chief Forensic Scientist, Forensic Services Department, 
Victoria Police, Australia. Electronic address: runa.daniel@police.vic.gov.au.
(2)Forensic Genetics Unit, Institute of Forensic Science "Luis Concheiro", 
University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain.
(3)Office of the Chief Forensic Scientist, Forensic Services Department, 
Victoria Police, Australia.
(4)Forensic Genetics Unit, Institute of Forensic Science "Luis Concheiro", 
University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain; CIBERER, Genomic Medicine Group, 
University of Santiago de Compostela, Spain; Center of Excellence in Genomic 
Medicine Research, King Abdulaziz University, Jeddah, Saudi Arabia.
(5)National Centre for Forensic Studies, University of Canberra, Australia.

Forensic phenotyping can provide useful intelligence regarding the 
biogeographical ancestry (BGA) and externally visible characteristics (EVCs) of 
the donor of an evidentiary sample. Currently, single nucleotide polymorphism 
(SNP) based inference of BGA and EVCs is performed most commonly using 
SNaPshot(®), a single base extension (SBE) assay. However, a single SNaPshot 
multiplex PCR is limited to 30-40 SNPs. Next generation sequencing (NGS) offers 
the potential to genotype hundreds to thousands of SNPs from multiple samples in 
a single experimental run. The PCR multiplexes from five SNaPshot assays 
(SNPforID 52plex, SNPforID 34plex, Eurasiaplex, IrisPlex and an unpublished BGA 
assay) were applied to three different DNA template amounts (0.1, 0.2 and 0.3 
ng) in three samples (9947A and 007 control DNAs and a male donor). The pooled 
PCR amplicons containing 136 unique SNPs were sequenced using Life Technologies' 
Ion Torrent™ PGM system. Approximately 72 Mb of sequence was generated from two 
10 Mb Ion 314™ v1 chips. Accurate genotypes were readily obtained from all three 
template amounts. Of a total of 408 genotypes, 395 (97%) were fully concordant 
with SNaPshot across all three template amounts. Of those genotypes discordant 
with SNaPshot, six Ion Torrent sequences (1.5%) were fully concordant with 
Sanger sequencing across the three template amounts. Seven SNPs (1.7%) were 
either discordant between template amounts or discordant with Sanger sequencing. 
Sequence coverage observed in the negative control, and, allele coverage 
variation for heterozygous genotypes highlights the need to establish a 
threshold for background levels of sequence output and heterozygous balance. 
This preliminary study of the Ion Torrent PGM system has demonstrated 
considerable potential for use in forensic DNA analyses as a low to medium 
throughput NGS platform using established SNaPshot assays.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.fsigen.2014.08.013
PMID: 25282603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


523. Arch Bronconeumol. 2015 May;51(5):219-22. doi: 10.1016/j.arbres.2014.07.008.
 Epub 2014 Oct 1.

Morbidity and mortality in octogenarians with lung cancer undergoing 
pneumonectomy.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Rodríguez M(1), Gómez Hernández MT(1), Novoa NM(1), Aranda JL(1), Jiménez MF(1), 
Varela G(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Cirugía Torácica, Hospital Universitario de Salamanca, Salamanca, 
España.
(2)Servicio de Cirugía Torácica, Hospital Universitario de Salamanca, Salamanca, 
España. Electronic address: gvs.@usal.es.

Comment in
    Arch Bronconeumol. 2015 May;51(5):211-2.

OBJECTIVE: Evaluate the restrictiveness of selection criteria for lung resection 
in lung cancer patients over 80 years of age compared to those applied in 
younger patients. Compare and analyze 30-day mortality and postoperative 
complications in both groups of patients.
METHODS: Case-controlled retrospective analysis.
STUDY POPULATION: Consecutive patients undergoing elective anatomical lung 
resection. Population was divided into octogenarians (cases) and younger 
patients (controls). Variables determining surgical risk (BMI, FEV1%, 
postoperative FEV1%, FEV1/FVC, DLCO and pneumonectomy rate) were compared using 
either Wilcoxon or Chi-squared tests. Thirty-day mortality and morbidity odds 
ratio were calculated. A logistic regression model with bootstrap resampling was 
constructed, including postoperative complications as dependent variable and age 
and post-operative FEV1% as independent variables. Data were retrieved from a 
prospective database.
RESULTS: No statistically significant differences were found in BMI (P=.40), 
FEV1% (P=.41), postoperative FEV1% (P=.23), FEV1/FVC (P=.23), DLCO (P=.76) and 
pneumonectomy rate (P=.90). Case mortality was 1.85% and control mortality was 
1.26% (OR: 1.48). Cardiorespiratory complications occurred in 12.80% of younger 
subjects and in 13.21% of patients aged 80 years or older. (OR: 1.03). In the 
logistic regression, only FEV1% was related to postoperative complications 
(P<.005).
CONCLUSION: Selection criteria for octogenarians are similar to those applied in 
the rest of the population. Advanced age is not a factor for increased 30-day 
mortality or postoperative morbidity.

Copyright © 2014 SEPAR. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arbres.2014.07.008
PMID: 25282713 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


524. J Diabetes Complications. 2015 Jan-Feb;29(1):134-41. doi: 
10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2014.08.007. Epub 2014 Aug 27.

Triple combination of insulin glargine, sitagliptin and metformin in type 2 
diabetes: the EASIE post-hoc analysis and extension trial.

Chan JC(1), Aschner P(2), Owens DR(3), Picard S(4), Vincent M(5), Dain MP(5), 
Pilorget V(5), Loizeau V(6), Echtay A(7), Fonseca V(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine and Therapeutics, Hong Kong Institute of Diabetes and 
Obesity, Li Ka Shing Institute of Health Sciences, The Chinese University of 
Hong Kong, Prince of Wales Hospital, Hong Kong, China. Electronic address: 
jchan@cuhk.edu.hk.
(2)Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, Hospital Universitario San Ignacio, Bogotá, 
Colombia.
(3)Diabetes Research Group, Institute of Life Science, Swansea University, 
Swansea, Wales, United Kingdom.
(4)Point Medical Rond Point de la Nation, Dijon, France.
(5)Sanofi, Paris, France.
(6)Lincoln, Chilly-Mazarin, France.
(7)Rafic Hariri University Hospital, Beirut, Lebanon.
(8)Tulane University Medical Center, New Orleans, LA, USA.

AIM: We examined the effects of adding glargine to metformin-sitagliptin (MS+G) 
or sitagliptin to metformin-glargine (MG+S) therapy in type 2 diabetic persons 
uncontrolled after 24-week MS or MG dual therapy.
METHODS: Subjects with A1c≥7% on MS or MG treatment were respectively given 
glargine (0.2U/kg starting dose) or sitagliptin (100mg daily) for 12weeks. The 
primary endpoint was number of subjects attaining A1c goal defined as <7%.
RESULTS: After receiving 24-week MS or MG dual therapy in the original EASIE 
Study, 42% (104/248) on MS and 68% (152/224) on MG attained A1c<7% (p<0.0001). 
The reduction in A1c was negatively associated with baseline fasting blood 
glucose (FBG) only in the MG group. Reduction in A1c was not related to baseline 
postprandial blood glucose (PPBG) in either the MG or MS group. Amongst 194 
eligible patients, 57.7% (n=111) entered the 12-week extension trial 
[MS+G:74/131, 57.3%; MG+S:37/63, 58.7%) with 55 (51.9%) subjects attaining goal 
[MS+G:59.2%; MG+S:37.1%] at week 12. The final insulin dosage was similar in 
both groups [MS+G: 0.46U/kg; MG+S: 0.45U/kg] with a higher rate of hypoglycemia 
in the MG+S (6.5 events/patient-year) than the MS+G group (3.2 
events/patient-year), although neither group had severe hypoglycemia.
CONCLUSION: In metformin-treated type 2 diabetes patients, high fasting BG 
predicted greater A1c reductions with the addition of glargine, but not with 
sitagliptin. In subjects uncontrolled with 6-month dual therapy of MS or MG, 50% 
attained A1c<7% with triple therapy of MS+G or MG+S in 12weeks. The increased 
rate of hypoglycemia with MG+S (but not with MS+G) underlines the need to take 
measures to avoid the hypoglycemia.

Copyright © 2015 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jdiacomp.2014.08.007
PMID: 25283485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


525. Acta Virol. 2014;58(3):253-60. doi: 10.4149/av_2014_03_253.

Enhanced oxidative damage to DNA, lipids, and proteins and levels of some 
antioxidant enzymes, cytokines, and heat shock proteins in patients infected 
with influenza H1N1 virus.

Lim JY, Oh E, Kim Y, Jung WW, Kim HS, Lee J, Sul D.

Overweight and obesity is becoming widespread enough to generate an acceptable 
and misleading social status. By 2030, in the USA up to 86 % of adults will be 
overweight or obese. Some selected statistical data based on the body mass index 
(BMI) indicated that overweight was not associated with increased mortality, 
this provoked a conceivable interest. Added to this is the observation that 
while the prevalence of obesity is dramatically increasing, the cardiovascular 
mortality and life expectancy in the European Union and USA has improved. When 
more sensitive indicators of body adiposity and its distribution than the BMI, 
like the waist-thigh ratio in both sexes and the waist-hip ratio in women are 
projected on mortality, it becomes obvious that even overweight is associated 
with an increased health risk. Gaining excessive body fat is a continuous, 
frequently progressive process. Present obesity epidemic in childhood will 
manifest with deleterious consequences only in future years when adolescents 
reach adulthood. Prevention is thus essential even before the overweight sets 
in. Improved life expectancy observed in large populations despite obesity 
epidemic, is a favourable medical success in the management of hypertension, of 
serum lipid disorders and diabetes. While encouraging, when it is observed in 
large population, it does not take away the potential health risk of a metabolic 
disorder in an individual who is overweight (Fig. 7, Ref. 25).

DOI: 10.4149/av_2014_03_253
PMID: 25283860 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


526. Eur J Health Econ. 2015 Nov;16(8):865-77. doi: 10.1007/s10198-014-0636-y.
Epub  2014 Oct 5.

Differences in EQ-5D-3L health state valuations among patients with 
musculoskeletal diseases, health care professionals and healthy volunteers.

Schwalm A(1), Feng YS(2), Moock J(3), Kohlmann T(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute for Community Medicine, Section Methods in Community Medicine, 
University of Greifswald, Walther-Rathenau-Strasse 48, 17475, Greifswald, 
Germany. anja.schwalm@uni-greifswald.de.
(2)Institute for Community Medicine, Section Methods in Community Medicine, 
University of Greifswald, Walther-Rathenau-Strasse 48, 17475, Greifswald, 
Germany.
(3)Competence Tandem PsychNetwork, Innovation Incubator, Leuphana University 
Lüneburg, Lüneburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Results from existing studies indicate that different respondent 
groups' health state valuations in cost-utility analyses are not equivalent.
OBJECTIVES: The objectives in our study were to analyse differences in health 
state valuations among three respondent groups in the context of medical 
rehabilitation in Germany.
METHODS: Using the time trade-off (TTO) technique, valuations of EQ-5D-3L health 
states were obtained from patients with musculoskeletal diseases, healthy 
volunteers and health care professionals. We used linear mixed models to predict 
TTO utilities and specified and tested interaction effects.
RESULTS: We identified statistically significant (p < 0.05) differences among 
the three groups in six out of 42 health states. On average, patients' TTO 
values were somewhat higher compared with other respondent groups. Most of these 
differences occurred in severe health states. Mean differences and mean absolute 
differences were 0.02 and 0.14 for patients vs healthy volunteers and 0.06 and 
0.14 for patients vs health care professionals. Furthermore, significant effects 
among respondents were observed for seven of the 22 possible interactions 
describing differences between respondent groups. Coefficients associated with 
significant interaction effects ranged from 0.08 to 0.18 (absolute values).
CONCLUSION: The results of our study suggest that TTO valuations of health 
states differ depending on the specific respondent group from which valuations 
are obtained. On average, these differences were small. However, researchers and 
decision makers should remain aware of these differences when interpreting 
incremental cost-utility assessments.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-014-0636-y
PMID: 25283996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


527. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2014 Nov;12(11):1369-78. doi: 
10.1586/14779072.2014.967216. Epub 2014 Oct 4.

Incremental cost-effectiveness of percutaneous versus surgical closure of atrial 
septal defects in children under a public health system perspective in Brazil.

Costa R(1), Pedra CA, Ribeiro M, Pedra S, Ferreira-Da-Silva AL, Polanczyk C, 
Berwanger O, Biasi A, Ribeiro R.

Author information:
(1)Hospital do Coração da Associação do Sanatório Sírio, Sao Paulo, Brazil.

INTRODUCTION: Cost-effectiveness (CE) studies of percutaneous (PC) versus 
surgical (SC) atrial septal defect closure are lacking.
METHODS: A systematic literature review in children and a CE analysis based on a 
model of long-term outcomes were performed. Direct costs of PC and SC were 
US$8700 (defined arbitrarily) and US$5700 (actually paid), respectively. 
Three-times the Brazilian GDI (US$28,700) per year of life saved (with a 
discount rate of 5%) was used as a limit for willingness-to-pay.
DISCUSSION: PC had a high (US$104,500) incremental CE ratio despite lower 
complication rates, shorter hospital stay and better (nonsignificant) adjusted 
life expectancy. PC would be cost-effective if it cost US$6400 or SC had an 8% 
loss of utility or its indirect costs were US$2250. Costs of PC should be 
reduced to be cost-effective in the Brazilian public health system. Indirect 
costs and impact on quality of life should be further assessed.

DOI: 10.1586/14779072.2014.967216
PMID: 25284446 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


528. Leuk Lymphoma. 2015 Jun;56(6):1839-45. doi: 10.3109/10428194.2014.970542.
Epub  2014 Nov 3.

Health utilities in relation to treatment response and adverse events in 
relapsed/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma and systemic anaplastic large cell 
lymphoma.

Swinburn P(1), Shingler S, Acaster S, Lloyd A, Bonthapally V.

Author information:
(1)ICON, Patient Reported Outcomes , Oxford , UK.

New therapies for relapsing/refractory Hodgkin lymphoma (R/R HL) and R/R 
systemic anaplastic large-cell lymphoma (sALCL) have emerged. This study 
captured utility values for R/R HL and sALCL to support economic evaluation. 
Health state "vignettes" were developed describing states associated with R/R HL 
and sALCL: treatment response (complete or partial response), stable and 
progressive disease and treatment-related adverse events (B-symptoms, 
acute/chronic graft-versus-host disease [GVHD] and peripheral neuropathy). 
Vignettes were evaluated by members of the public in the UK, Australia, Taiwan, 
Thailand, South Korea, Brazil and Mexico using the time trade-off method. Mean 
utilities varied substantially. Complete response utility scores were UK: 0.906, 
Australia: 0.889, Taiwan: 0.597, Thailand: 0.728, South Korea: 0.827, Brazil: 
0.764, Mexico: 0.728. Adverse events were associated with disutility: acute 
GVHD, lowest mean utility value: Thailand 0.124; highest value: Mexico 0.467. 
Societal evaluation of health states for R/R HL and sALCL revealed a marked 
perceived benefit of a treatment response.

DOI: 10.3109/10428194.2014.970542
PMID: 25284490 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


529. J Life Care Plan. 2010 Jun;9(2):15.

Life Expectancy Estimates in the Life Care Plan: Accounting for Economic 
Factors.

Krause JS(1), Saunders LL(1).

Author information:
(1)Medical University of South Carolina.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to summarize the existing scientific 
literature on the relationship between economic factors and life expectancy (LE) 
after spinal cord injury (SCI), present new data on the relationship between 
household income and LE, and present a revised theoretical risk model to account 
for the observed relationships.
RESEARCH DESIGN: Data were from a prospective cohort study of 1386 participants 
with SCI which began in 1997. Mortality status was determined 10 years later. 
Person year logistic regression was used to evaluate predictors of mortality and 
to generate LE estimates, as each year of follow-up was treated as a separate 
observation (rather than a single observation per person).
RESULTS: Results indicated significant relationships between age, injury 
severity, household income and LE, which suggest the need for more refined 
models of economic factors and LE.
CONCLUSIONS: LE estimates in life care plans need to account for economic 
factors in order to improve accuracy. It is important to allocate resources to 
meet all healthcare needs throughout the lifecycle to ensure that LE is not 
compromised.

PMCID: PMC4181946
PMID: 25285312


530. Pediatr Emerg Care. 2015 Sep;31(9):627-32. doi:
10.1097/PEC.0000000000000245.

Cervical Spine Motion During Airway Management Using Two Manual In-line 
Immobilization Techniques: A Human Simulator Model Study.

De Jesus CR(1), García Peña BM, Lozano JM, Maniaci V.

Author information:
(1)From the *Department of Pediatric Emergency Medicine, Miami Children's 
Hospital, 3100 SW 62nd Avenue, Miami, FL; and †Division of Research and 
Information/Data Coordinating Center, Florida International University, Herbert 
Wertheim College of Medicine, Miami, FL.

OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study is to evaluate cervical spine motion using 2 
manual inline immobilization techniques with the use of a human simulator model.
METHODS: Medical students, pediatric and family practice residents, and 
pediatric emergency medicine fellows were recruited to maintain cervical manual 
in line immobilization above the head of the bed and across the chest of a human 
simulator while orotracheal intubation was performed. Participants were then 
instructed on appropriate holding techniques after the initial session took 
place. Orotracheal intubation followed. A tilt sensor measured time to 
intubation and cervical extension and rotation angle.
RESULTS: Seventy-one subjects participated in a total of 284 successful 
orotracheal intubations. No change in cervical spine movement or time to 
intubation was observed when using 2 different inline manual immobilization 
techniques with no training. However, a statistically significant difference 
with assistants above the head versus across the chest was observed after 
training in: extension 2.1° (95% confidence interval [95% CI], 1.15 to 3.00; P < 
0.0001); rotation 0.7° (95% CI, 0.26 to 1.19; P = 0.003) and intubation time of 
-1.9 seconds (95% CI, -3.45 to -0.13; P = 0.035) after training.
CONCLUSIONS: Cervical spine movement did not change when maintaining cervical 
spine immobilization from above the head versus across the chest before 
training. There was a statistically significant change in extension and rotation 
when assistants were above the head and in time to intubation when assistants 
were across the chest after training. The clinical significance of these results 
is unclear.

DOI: 10.1097/PEC.0000000000000245
PMID: 25285390 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


531. Int J Sports Med. 2015 Feb;36(2):150-6. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1385885. Epub
2014  Oct 6.

Muscular adaptations to short-term low-frequency downhill walking training.

Maeo S(1), Yamamoto M(1), Kanehisa H(1).

Author information:
(1)Sports and Life Science, National Institute of Fitness and Sports in Kanoya, 
Kagoshima, Japan.

This study examined muscular adaptations of knee extensors following short-term 
low-frequency downhill walking training. 22 young males (training group: TG, 
n=12; control group: CG, n=10) participated. TG conducted 40-min downhill 
treadmill walking (load: 10% of body mass, gradient: 28%, velocity: 5 km/h) 1 
session/week for 4 weeks. Before and after the intervention, muscle thickness of 
knee extensors and maximal knee extension torques in eccentric (- 120, - 60, 
- 30°/s), isometric (0°/s), and concentric (30, 60, 120, 240°/s) conditions were 
measured. For TG, muscle damage markers were also measured before and up to 72 h 
following each session. After the intervention, CG did not show any changes in 
all variables. TG had significant increases in maximal knee extension torques at 
all angular velocities, with higher relative gains in eccentric torques (+ 24% 
on average) than isometric (+ 13%) and concentric (+ 12% on average) torques. No 
changes were found in the muscle thickness. Although considerable muscle damage 
was observed after the first training session in TG, the magnitudes of changes 
in all markers following the second to fourth sessions were minimal. These 
results indicate that even with relatively short-term and low-frequency, 
downhill walking training can increase the strength capacity of knee extensors, 
especially in eccentric strength.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1385885
PMID: 25285470 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


532. J Occup Environ Med. 2014 Oct;56 Suppl 10:S8-S12. doi: 
10.1097/JOM.0000000000000242.

Clinical aspects of asbestos-related diseases--what are the unresolved topics?

Banks DE(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Medicine, Uniformed Services University of the health 
Sciences, and Department of Medicine, Brooke Army Medical Center, Fort Sam 
Houston, Tex.

OBJECTIVE: Despite awareness of the health risks associated with asbestos fiber 
inhalation and the decline in U.S. utilization (about 0.1% of the yearly peak 
amount), illnesses associated with exposure persist. Those with disease 
