of Health and Human Services, USA.
(3)Agency for Healthcare Research and Quality (AHRQ), US Department of Health 
and Human Services, USA.

The NIH Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (OBSSR) furthers the 
mission of the NIH by stimulating behavioral and social sciences research 
throughout NIH and integrating these areas of research more fully into the NIH 
health research enterprise, thereby improving our understanding, treatment, and 
prevention of disease. OBSSR accomplishes this mission through several strategic 
priorities: (1) supporting the next generation of basic behavioral and social 
sciences research, (2) facilitating interdisciplinary research, (3) promoting a 
multi-level systems perspective of health and behavior, and (4) encouraging a 
problem-focused perspective on population health.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.11.017
PMID: 25511259 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


232. Clin Drug Investig. 2015 Feb;35(2):109-19. doi: 10.1007/s40261-014-0253-7.

Stroke and systemic embolism prevention in patients with atrial fibrillation in 
Belgium: comparative cost effectiveness of new oral anticoagulants and warfarin.

Kongnakorn T(1), Lanitis T, Annemans L, Thijs V, Goethals M, Marbaix S, 
Wautrecht JC.

Author information:
(1)Evidera, Metro Building, 6th Floor, 1 Butterwick, London, W6 8DL, UK, 
thitima.kongnakorn@evidera.com.

BACKGROUND AND OBJECTIVE: Management of non-valvular atrial fibrillation (NVAF) 
focuses on the use of anticoagulation to mitigate the risk of stroke. Until 
recently, vitamin K antagonist (VKA) treatment was considered the standard of 
care, with the emergence of non-VKA oral anticoagulants (NOACs) shifting 
treatment practice. The objective of this study was therefore to assess the use 
of warfarin and the NOACs for stroke prevention in patients with NVAF from the 
perspective of a Belgian healthcare payer using a cost-effectiveness analysis 
and the efficiency frontier approach.
METHODS: A previously published Markov model was adapted to the Belgian 
healthcare setting. Clinical events modelled include ischaemic and haemorrhagic 
stroke, systemic embolism, intracranial haemorrhage, other major bleeding, 
clinically relevant non-major bleeding, myocardial infarction, cardiovascular 
hospitalisation and treatment discontinuations. Efficacy and bleeding data for 
warfarin and apixaban 5 mg twice daily were obtained from the ARISTOTLE trial, 
whilst those for other NOACs (rivaroxaban 20 mg once daily, dabigatran 110 mg 
twice daily, dabigatran 150 mg twice daily) were from published indirect 
comparisons. Acute medical costs were obtained from reimbursement payments made 
to Belgian hospitals, whilst long-term medical costs and utility data were 
derived from the literature. The efficiency frontier was calculated using total 
costs and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) as outcomes. Univariate and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Warfarin and apixaban were the two optimal treatment choices, as the 
other three treatment alternatives including dabigatran 110 mg, dabigatran 
150 mg switching to dabigatran 110 mg at the age of 80 years and rivaroxaban 
were extendedly or strictly dominated on the efficiency frontier. Apixaban was a 
cost-effective alternative vs warfarin at an incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio of <euro>7,212/QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Amongst NOACs, apixaban may be the most economically efficient 
alternative to warfarin in NVAF patients who are suitable for VKA treatment and 
eligible for stroke prevention in Belgium.

DOI: 10.1007/s40261-014-0253-7
PMID: 25511639 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


233. Bone. 2015 Apr;73:176-80. doi: 10.1016/j.bone.2014.12.006. Epub 2014 Dec 13.

Areal bone mineral density in children and adolescents with Marfan syndrome: 
evidence of an evolving problem.

Trifirò G(1), Marelli S(2), Viecca M(2), Mora S(3), Pini A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, AO Salvini, Corso Europa 250, 20017 Rho, Italy.
(2)Marfan Clinic®, Department of Cardiology, L. Sacco Hospital, Via G.B. Grassi 
74, 20157 Milan, Italy.
(3)Laboratory of Pediatric Endocrinology, Division of Genetics and Cell Biology, 
IRCCS San Raffaele Scientific Institute, Via Olgettina 60, 20132 Milan, Italy. 
Electronic address: mora.stefano@hsr.it.

Marfan syndrome (MFS), an autosomal dominant disorder of connective tissue, is 
due to defective fibrillin-1. Defects involve the cardiovascular system, the 
eye, the lungs, and the skeleton. The aim of the current study was to 
characterize the bone mineral status in children and adolescents with MFS. We 
performed an observational cross-sectional study and a longitudinal follow-up of 
two years. We enrolled 73 young patients with MFS (3-17years). A subset of 44 
patients participated in the longitudinal study. Healthy children were studied 
as controls for biochemical analyses. Bone mineral density (BMD) was measured at 
lumbar spine, femoral neck and total femur by dual-energy X-ray absorptiometry. 
BMD values were expressed as Z-scores adjusted for height using height-for-age 
Z-scores. BMD measurements corrected for height were significantly lower than 
reference at all skeletal sites (P<0.0001). Patient on cardiac treatment with 
losartan had lower BMD measurements corrected for height compared to non-treated 
patients. Total femur BMD decreased significantly over time (P=0.027). BMD at 
the other two skeletal sites did not change significantly during follow-up, but 
remained significantly low compared to reference (P<0.0001). In conclusion, 
young patients with MFS have markedly low BMD at the lumbar spine and femur, and 
values show a tendency to decrease over time in the peripheral skeleton. Because 
increased life expectancy of MFS patients, the reduced BMD during childhood may 
lead to a low peak bone mass, increasing the fracture risk during adult life.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bone.2014.12.006
PMID: 25511867 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


234. BMC Cancer. 2014 Dec 15;14:953. doi: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-953.

Cost-utility analysis of maintenance therapy with gemcitabine or erlotinib vs 
observation with predefined second-line treatment after cisplatin-gemcitabine 
induction chemotherapy for advanced NSCLC: IFCT-GFPC 0502-Eco phase III study.

Borget I(1), Pérol M, Pérol D, Lavolé A, Greillier L, Dô P, Westeel V, Crequit 
J, Léna H, Monnet I, Le Caer H, Fournel P, Falchero L, Poudenx M, Vaylet F, 
Chabaud S, Vergnenegre A, Zalcman G, Chouaïd C; IFCT-GFPC investigators.

Author information:
(1)Études et Recherche en Économie de la Santé, Service de Biostatistique et 
d'Epidémiologie, Institut Gustave Roussy, 114, rue Edouard-Vaillant, 94805 
Villejuif, Cedex, France. isabelle.borget@igr.fr.

BACKGROUND: The IFCT-GFPC 0502 phase III study reported prolongation of 
progression-free survival with gemcitabine or erlotinib maintenance vs. 
observation after cisplatin-gemcitabine induction chemotherapy for advanced 
non-small-cell lung cancer (NSCLC). This analysis was undertaken to assess the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of these strategies for the global 
population and pre-specified subgroups.
METHODS: A cost-utility analysis evaluated the ICER of gemcitabine or erlotinib 
maintenance therapy vs. observation, from randomization until the end of 
follow-up. Direct medical costs (including drugs, hospitalization, follow-up 
examinations, second-line treatments and palliative care) were prospectively 
collected per patient during the trial, until death, from the primary 
health-insurance provider's perspective. Utility data were extracted from 
literature. Sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: The ICERs for gemcitabine or erlotinib maintenance therapy were 
respectively 76,625 and 184,733 euros per quality-adjusted life year (QALY). 
Gemcitabine continuation maintenance therapy had a favourable ICER in patients 
with PS = 0 (52,213 €/QALY), in responders to induction chemotherapy (64,296 
€/QALY), regardless of histology (adenocarcinoma, 62,292 €/QALY, non 
adenocarcinoma, 83,291 €/QALY). Erlotinib maintenance showed a favourable ICER 
in patients with PS = 0 (94,908 €/QALY), in patients with adenocarcinoma (97,160 
€/QALY) and in patient with objective response to induction (101,186 €/QALY), 
but it is not cost-effective in patients with PS =1, in patients with 
non-adenocarcinoma or with stable disease after induction chemotherapy.
CONCLUSION: Gemcitabine- or erlotinib-maintenance therapy had ICERs that varied 
as a function of histology, PS and response to first-line chemotherapy.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2407-14-953
PMCID: PMC4302067
PMID: 25511923 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


235. Pharmacoeconomics. 2015 Apr;33(4):395-408. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0246-7.

Cost effectiveness of novel oral anticoagulants for stroke prevention in atrial 
fibrillation depending on the quality of warfarin anticoagulation control.

Janzic A(1), Kos M.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Pharmacy, University of Ljubljana, Aškerčeva cesta 7, 1000, 
Ljubljana, Slovenia.

BACKGROUND: Vitamin K antagonists, such as warfarin, are standard treatments for 
stroke prophylaxis in patients with atrial fibrillation. Patient outcomes depend 
on quality of warfarin management, which includes regular monitoring and dose 
adjustments. Recently, novel oral anticoagulants (NOACs) that do not require 
regular monitoring offer an alternative to warfarin. The aim of this study was 
to evaluate whether cost effectiveness of NOACs for stroke prevention in atrial 
fibrillation depends on the quality of warfarin control.
METHODS: We developed a Markov decision model to simulate warfarin treatment 
outcomes in relation to the quality of anticoagulation control, expressed as 
percentage of time in the therapeutic range (TTR). Standard treatment with 
adjusted-dose warfarin and improved anticoagulation control by genotype-guided 
dosing were compared with dabigatran, rivaroxaban, apixaban and edoxaban. The 
analysis was performed from the Slovenian healthcare payer perspective using 
2014 costs.
RESULTS: In the base case, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for 
apixaban, dabigatran and edoxaban was below the threshold of €25,000 per 
quality-adjusted life-years compared with adjusted-dose warfarin with a TTR of 
60%. The probability that warfarin was a cost-effective option was around 1%. 
This percentage rises as the quality of anticoagulation control improves. At a 
TTR of 70%, warfarin was the preferred treatment in half the iterations.
CONCLUSION: The cost effectiveness of NOACs for stroke prevention in patients 
with nonvalvular atrial fibrillation who are at increased risk for stroke is 
highly sensitive to warfarin anticoagulation control. NOACs are more likely to 
be cost-effective options in settings with poor warfarin management than in 
settings with better anticoagulation control, where they may not represent good 
value for money.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0246-7
PMID: 25512096 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


236. Immun Ageing. 2014 Nov 1;11:16. doi: 10.1186/1742-4933-11-16. eCollection
2014.

Possible role of ABO system in age-related diseases and longevity: a narrative 
review.

Rizzo C(1), Caruso C(1), Vasto S(2).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Transfusion Medicine, University Hospital "Paolo Giaccone", Palermo, 
Italy ; Department of Pathobiology and Medical and Forensic Biotechnologies, 
University of Palermo, Palermo, Italy.
(2)National Center for Research, Institute of Biomedicine and Molecular 
Immunology, Palermo, Italy ; Department of Science and Biological, Chemical and 
Pharmaceutical Technologies, Institute of Biomedicine and Molecular Immunology, 
Palermo, Italy.

ABO blood group antigens are expressed either on the surface of red blood cells 
either on a variety of other cells. Based on the available knowledge of the 
genes involved in their biosynthesis and their tissue distribution, their 
polymorphism has been suggested to provide intraspecies diversity allowing to 
cope with diverse and rapidly evolving pathogens. Accordingly, the different 
prevalence of ABO group genotypes among the populations has been demonstrated to 
be driven by malaria selection. In the similar manner, a particular ABO blood 
group may contribute to favour life-extension via biological mechanisms 
important for surviving or eluding serious disease. In this review, we will 
suggest the possible association of ABO group with age-related diseases and 
longevity taking into account the biological role of the ABO 
glycosyltransferases on some inflammatory mediators as adhesion molecules.

DOI: 10.1186/1742-4933-11-16
PMCID: PMC4265994
PMID: 25512760


237. Politics Life Sci. 2014 Spring;33(1):2-32. doi: 10.2990/33_1_2.

No end to caring?

Robison S(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Political Science, Idaho State University, Graveley Hall, 
Pocatello, ID 83209, robishea@isu.edu.

In a recent issue of Politics and the Life Sciences Mark Walker presented a 
compelling proposition for reducing evil in the world via an interdisciplinary 
program he calls the "Genetic Virtue Project" (GVP). As Walker explains, the 
purpose of the GVP is "to discover and enhance human ethics using biotechnology 
genetic correlates of virtuous behavior." PLS subsequently published several 
critiques of this proposal. While most of these critiques focused on 
conventional doubts about the technical feasibility or the ethics of such 
interventions, the more fundamental concern revealed by both Walker's proposal 
and its critiques is in the largely unquestioned assumption that more morality 
is necessarily better. Human history is marked by a gradual if uneven extension 
of moral concern to increasingly distant others, which many take as evidence of 
the rationality of morality. There is substantial evidence, though, that this 
expansion is fundamentally biological in origin and therefore not ultimately 
limited by rationality. Because these expanding moral feelings feel so good to 
us, we are incapable of perceiving the danger from their ever-expanding focus, 
in particular from the sincere but increasingly maladaptive collective policies 
they will engender. Utilizing the philosophy of Friedrich Nietzsche as a 
platform, the feasibility of different natural and cultural responses to this 
impending crisis of caring are examined, none of which are found capable of 
counteracting this expanding morality. Instead, the best hope for a successful 
response to this dangerous expansion of caring is actually a sort of reverse 
GVP, in which the biological mechanisms for this unchecked moral expansion are 
manipulated via genetic engineering to dial back this expansion. However, the 
likelihood of actually implementing such an admittedly counterintuitive and 
controversial program within an increasingly democratized world is doubtful. 
Ultimately, if we are unable to overcome this betrayal by our best intentions, 
where does that leave us as a species?

DOI: 10.2990/33_1_2
PMID: 25514521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


238. Nanoscale. 2015 Feb 7;7(5):1760-7. doi: 10.1039/c4nr06315e.

Forces in yeast flocculation.

El-Kirat-Chatel S(1), Beaussart A, Vincent SP, Abellán Flos M, Hols P, Lipke PN, 
Dufrêne YF.

Author information:
(1)Université catholique de Louvain, Institute of Life Sciences, B-1348 
Louvain-la-Neuve, Belgium. Yves.Dufrene@uclouvain.be.

In the baker's yeast Saccharomyces cerevisiae, cell-cell adhesion 
("flocculation") is conferred by a family of lectin-like proteins known as the 
flocculin (Flo) proteins. Knowledge of the adhesive and mechanical properties of 
flocculins is important for understanding the mechanisms of yeast adhesion, and 
may help controlling yeast behaviour in biotechnology. We use single-molecule 
and single-cell atomic force microscopy (AFM) to explore the nanoscale forces 
engaged in yeast flocculation, focusing on the role of Flo1 as a prototype of 
flocculins. Using AFM tips labelled with mannose, we detect single flocculins on 
Flo1-expressing cells, showing they are widely exposed on the cell surface. When 
subjected to force, individual Flo1 proteins display two distinct force 
responses, i.e. weak lectin binding forces and strong unfolding forces 
reflecting the force-induced extension of hydrophobic tandem repeats. We 
demonstrate that cell-cell adhesion bonds also involve multiple weak lectin 
interactions together with strong unfolding forces, both associated with Flo1 
molecules. Single-molecule and single-cell data correlate with microscale cell 
adhesion behaviour, suggesting strongly that Flo1 mechanics is critical for 
yeast flocculation. These results favour a model in which not only weak 
lectin-sugar interactions are involved in yeast flocculation but also strong 
hydrophobic interactions resulting from protein unfolding.

DOI: 10.1039/c4nr06315e
PMCID: PMC4304900
PMID: 25515338 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


239. Sci Rep. 2014 Dec 17;4:7518. doi: 10.1038/srep07518.

Simultaneous targeting of two ligand-binding sites on VEGFR2 using biparatopic 
Affibody molecules results in dramatically improved affinity.

Fleetwood F(1), Klint S(2), Hanze M(1), Gunneriusson E(2), Frejd FY(3), Ståhl 
S(1), Löfblom J(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Protein Technology, School of Biotechnology, KTH - Royal 
Institute of Technology, AlbaNova University Center, 106 91 Stockholm, Sweden.
(2)Affibody AB, Gunnar Asplunds Allé 24, 171 63 Solna, Sweden.
(3)1] Affibody AB, Gunnar Asplunds Allé 24, 171 63 Solna, Sweden [2] Unit of 
Biomedical Radiation Sciences, Uppsala University.

Angiogenesis plays an important role in cancer and ophthalmic disorders such as 
age-related macular degeneration and diabetic retinopathy. The vascular 
endothelial growth factor (VEGF) family and corresponding receptors are 
regulators of angiogenesis and have been much investigated as therapeutic 
targets. The aim of this work was to generate antagonistic VEGFR2-specific 
affinity proteins having adjustable pharmacokinetic properties allowing for 
either therapy or molecular imaging. Two antagonistic Affibody molecules that 
were cross-reactive for human and murine VEGFR2 were selected by phage and 
bacterial display. Surprisingly, although both binders independently blocked 
VEGF-A binding, competition assays revealed interaction with non-overlapping 
epitopes on the receptor. Biparatopic molecules, comprising the two Affibody 
domains, were hence engineered to potentially increase affinity even further 
through avidity. Moreover, an albumin-binding domain was included for half-life 
extension in future in vivo experiments. The best-performing of the biparatopic 
constructs demonstrated up to 180-fold slower dissociation than the monomers. 
The new Affibody constructs were also able to specifically target VEGFR2 on 
human cells, while simultaneously binding to albumin, as well as inhibit 
VEGF-induced signaling. In summary, we have generated small antagonistic 
biparatopic Affibody molecules with high affinity for VEGFR2, which have 
potential for both future therapeutic and diagnostic purposes in 
angiogenesis-related diseases.

DOI: 10.1038/srep07518
PMCID: PMC4268634
PMID: 25515662 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: SK, EG and FYF are employees at Affibody AB, 
Solna, Sweden. SS and JL are members of the Technical Advisory Board at Affibody 
AB. Other authors declare no financial or commercial conflict of interest.


240. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2014 Dec;62(12):2288-95. doi: 10.1111/jgs.13146.

Cost-effectiveness of a community-integrated home-based depression intervention 
in older African Americans.

Pizzi LT(1), Jutkowitz E, Frick KD, Suh DC, Prioli KM, Gitlin LN.

Author information:
(1)Jefferson School of Pharmacy, Thomas Jefferson University, Philadelphia, 
Pennsylvania.

OBJECTIVES: To test the cost-effectiveness of a home-based depression program: 
Beat the Blues (BTB).
DESIGN: A cost-effectiveness analysis as part of a previously reported 
randomized controlled trial that compared BTB with a wait-list control group.
SETTING: Community.
PARTICIPANTS: English-speaking, cognitively intact (Mini-Mental State 
Examination score ≥24), African Americans aged 55 and older with depressive 
symptoms (Patient Health Questionnaire score ≥5) (N = 129).
INTERVENTION: Participants randomly assigned to BTB received up to 10 home 
visits over 4 months from licensed social workers who provided care management, 
referral and linkage, stress reduction, depression education, and behavioral 
activation to help participants achieve self-identified goals.
MEASUREMENTS: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) of BTB versus 
wait-list controls during the 4-month study period. The primary ICER was defined 
as cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) using the Euro Quality of Life 5D 
(EQ-5D) and secondarily using the Health Utilities Index-3 (HUI-3). Additional 
ICERs were calculated using clinical measures (cost per depression improvement, 
cost per depression remission). Costs included BTB intervention, 
depression-related healthcare visits and medications, caregiver time, and social 
services.
RESULTS: BTB cost per participant per month was $146. Base case ICERs were 
$64,896 per QALY (EQ-5D) and $36,875 per QALY (HUI-3). Incremental cost was 
$2,906 per depression improvement and $3,507 per remission. Univariate and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses yielded a cost/QALY range of $20,500 to 
$76,500.
CONCLUSION: Based on the range of cost-effectiveness values resulting from this 
study, BTB is a cost-effective treatment for managing depressive symptoms in 
older African Americans that compares favorably with the cost-effectiveness of 
previously tested approaches.

© 2014, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2014, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.13146
PMCID: PMC4270093
PMID: 25516025 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: Pizzi, Frick, Suh, and 
Prioli have no conflicts of interest to disclose. Mr. Jutkowitz is supported by 
a grant from the Agency for Health Research & Quality National Research Service 
Award Traineeship and the Hearst Foundation. Dr. Gitlin is an employee of Johns 
Hopkins University and receives honoraria for various speaking engagements. Dr. 
Gitlin also consults with a few agencies concerning best practices with Phillips 
Life Line Falls Advisory Board and receives royalties for two books. The 
findings reported in this manuscript were funded by NIMH.241. World J Gastrointest Oncol. 2014 Dec 15;6(12):450-3. doi: 
10.4251/wjgo.v6.i12.450.

Carcinomatous meningitis due to gastric adenocarcinoma: A rare presentation of 
relapse.

Saad N(1), Alsibai A(1), Hadid TH(1).

Author information:
(1)Nibal Saad, Ahmad Alsibai, Department of Internal Medicine, St. John Hospital 
and Medical Center, Detroit, MI 48236, United States.

While solid tumors are less commonly associated with meningeal involvement; 
lung, breast and melanoma are the ones most often reported. A few case reports 
have included gastric carcinoma but these are rare and most often associated 
with systemic disease at the time of diagnosis. Here we report a unique 
presentation of gastric carcinoma relapse with leptomeningeal carcinomatosis. An 
81-year-old female was diagnosed with gastric cancer approximately one year 
before presentation. Following neoadjuvant chemotherapy, she had gastrectomy. 
Her periodic surveillance was stable. Thereafter she presented with a one week 
history of progressive fatigue lightheadedness, syncope. During hospitalization 
her mental status deteriorated. A repeat computed axial tomography scan of the 
head showed no changes to suggest an etiology. A lumbar puncture was performed 
and cerebral spinal fluid (CSF) cytopathology confirmed gastric signet cell 
adenocarcinoma. Encephalopathy was likely caused by increased intracranial 
pressure from communicating hydrocephalus. Leptomeningeal carcinomatosis is 
associated with short life expectancy. Therapeutic lumbar punctures and best 
supportive care or systemic therapy can be applied with guarded prognosis. 
Survival, however, may improve with cytologic negative conversion of the CSF if 
patient performance status allows treatment.

DOI: 10.4251/wjgo.v6.i12.450
PMCID: PMC4266818
PMID: 25516779


242. Plast Reconstr Surg. 2015 Apr;135(4):937-946. doi:
10.1097/PRS.0000000000001134.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of implants versus autologous perforator flaps using 
the BREAST-Q.

Matros E(1), Albornoz CR, Razdan SN, Mehrara BJ, Macadam SA, Ro T, McCarthy CM, 
Disa JJ, Cordeiro PG, Pusic AL.

Author information:
(1)New York, N.Y.; and Vancouver, British Columbia, Canada From the Plastic and 
Reconstructive Surgical Service, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center; and the 
Department of Surgery, University of British Columbia.

BACKGROUND: Reimbursement has been recognized as a physician barrier to 
autologous reconstruction. Autologous reconstructions are more expensive than 
prosthetic reconstructions, but provide greater health-related quality of life. 
The authors' hypothesis is that autologous tissue reconstructions are 
cost-effective compared with prosthetic techniques when considering 
health-related quality of life and patient satisfaction.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis from the payer perspective, including 
patient input, was performed for unilateral and bilateral reconstructions with 
deep inferior epigastric perforator (DIEP) flaps and implants. The effectiveness 
measure was derived using the BREAST-Q and interpreted as the cost for obtaining 
1 year of perfect breast health-related quality-adjusted life-year. Costs were 
obtained from the 2010 Nationwide Inpatient Sample. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was generated. A sensitivity analysis for age and stage 
at diagnosis was performed.
RESULTS: BREAST-Q scores from 309 patients with implants and 217 DIEP flap 
reconstructions were included. The additional cost for obtaining 1 year of 
perfect breast-related health for a unilateral DIEP flap compared with implant 
reconstruction was $11,941. For bilateral DIEP flaps compared with implant 
reconstructions, the cost for an additional breast health-related 
quality-adjusted life-year was $28,017. The sensitivity analysis demonstrated 
that the cost for an additional breast health-related quality-adjusted life-year 
for DIEP flaps compared with implants was less for younger patients and earlier 
stage breast cancer.
CONCLUSIONS: DIEP flaps are cost-effective compared with implants, especially 
for unilateral reconstructions. Cost-effectiveness of autologous techniques is 
maximized in women with longer life expectancy. Patient-reported outcomes 
findings can be incorporated into cost-effectiveness analyses to demonstrate the 
relative value of reconstructive procedures.

DOI: 10.1097/PRS.0000000000001134
PMID: 25517411 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


243. Ophthalmic Epidemiol. 2015 Feb;22(1):4-12. doi:
10.3109/09286586.2014.988876.  Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Cost-utility analysis of screening for diabetic retinopathy in Japan: a 
probabilistic Markov modeling study.

Kawasaki R(1), Akune Y, Hiratsuka Y, Fukuhara S, Yamada M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Yamagata University , Yamagata , Japan .

PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness for a screening interval longer than 
1 year detecting diabetic retinopathy (DR) through the estimation of incremental 
costs per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) based on the best available clinical 
data in Japan.
METHODS: A Markov model with a probabilistic cohort analysis was framed to 
calculate incremental costs per QALY gained by implementing a screening program 
detecting DR in Japan. A 1-year cycle length and population size of 50,000 with 
a 50-year time horizon (age 40-90 years) was used. Best available clinical data 
from publications and national surveillance data was used, and a model was 
designed including current diagnosis and management of DR with corresponding 
visual outcomes. One-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed 
considering uncertainties in the parameters.
RESULTS: In the base-case analysis, the strategy with a screening program 
resulted in an incremental cost of 5,147 Japanese yen (¥; US$64.6) and 
incremental effectiveness of 0.0054 QALYs per person screened. The incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio was ¥944,981 (US$11,857) per QALY. The simulation 
suggested that screening would result in a significant reduction in blindness in 
people aged 40 years or over (-16%). Sensitivity analyses suggested that in 
order to achieve both reductions in blindness and cost-effectiveness in Japan, 
the screening program should screen those aged 53-84 years, at intervals of 3 
years or less.
CONCLUSIONS: An eye screening program in Japan would be cost-effective in 
detecting DR and preventing blindness from DR, even allowing for the 
uncertainties in estimates of costs, utility, and current management of DR.

DOI: 10.3109/09286586.2014.988876
PMID: 25517603 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


244. Health Rep. 2014 Dec;25(12):12-9.

Gender gaps--Life expectancy and proportion of life in poor health.

Luy M(1), Minagawa Y(2).

Author information:
(1)Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (IIASA, ÖAW/VID, 
WU), Vienna Institute of Demography of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, 
Austria.
(2)Faculty of Liberal Arts, Sophia University, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The literature suggests that women report worse health but live 
longer than men--a phenomenon known as the gender paradox in health and 
mortality. Although studies examining the paradox abound, relatively little is 
known about mechanisms underlying the gap.
DATA AND METHODS: With data on healthy life expectancy from the Global Burden of 
Disease Study 2010, this article analyses the relationship between length of 
life and health among men and women in 45 more-developed countries. The 
proportion of life spent in poor health is used as an indicator of health. This 
approach accounts for gender differences in longevity and illustrates the female 
health disadvantage pattern more clearly.
RESULTS: Life expectancy at birth and the proportion of life in poor health are 
closely related for both genders. Furthermore, the larger the female excess in 
longevity, the larger the female excess in the proportion of life in poor 
health.
INTERPRETATION: By focusing on the proportion of life in poor health, this 
analysis suggests that women's longevity advantage translates into a health 
disadvantages relative to men. The results indicate that women suffer from poor 
health not in spite of living longer, but because they live longer.

PMID: 25517936 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


245. Bull Acad Natl Med. 2013 Apr-May;197(4-5):925-33; discussion 933-4.

[End of life in France].

[Article in French]

Vacheron A.

Two major changes in end-of-life management have occured in recent decades: 
first, because of the increase in life expectancy and the resulting aging of the 
population, most deaths now involve old or very old people; second, more than 
two-thirds of deaths occur in a hospital or an institution. Our fellow citizens 
are afraid of suffering and death. They wish for a peaceful death, as rapid as 
possible and, in recent surveys, say they favour euthanasia. Yet euthanasia is 
illegal in France and in most other Western countries (with the exception of the 
Benelux nations). Palliative care ensures dignity in death, without anxiety of 
suffering, and is expanding rapidly in France. Léonetti's law of 22 April 2005 
ensures the protection of the weakest, who should never be considered unworthy 
of life, yet is poorly known to the public and even to physicians. It now needs 
to be applied in practice.

PMID: 25518160 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


246. Eksp Klin Gastroenterol. 2014;(3):81-7.

[The experience of biliary self-expendable nitinol stents for malignant 
jaundice].

[Article in Russian]

Alekseev KI, Maady AS, Osipov AS, Vasil'ev IV.

THE AIM: to analyze the effectiveness and possible complications of endoscopic 
biliary drainage (BD) using self-expanding metal stent (SEMS) in patients with 
malignant jaundice (MJ).
METHODS: From January 2010 to January 2014 in endoscopy department of Pirogov 
National medical and surgical Center were operated 64 patients with MJ, 38 of 
them with SEMS. The average patient's age was 65.4 ± 14.5 years. The mean 
duration of jaundice was 13 ± 5.4 days before drainage. The remaining 6 patients 
(15.8%) were operated with preliminary PTBD. In all 38 patients were diagnosed 
unresectable tumors.
RESULTS: successful endoscopic BD were achieved in all 38 patients. 35 patients 
were drained with transpapillary SEMS and 3 patients with EUS-guided 
choledochoduodenoanastomoses (EUS-CDA). Early postoperative complications were 
observed in 3 (7.8%) patients with no lethality.
CONCLUSION: endoscopic BD with SEMS is an effective method of internal drainage 
for inoperable pancreatobiliary tumors, providing adequate BD for the entire 
duration of life expectancy. In case of failed transpapillary drainage 
EUS-guided biliodigestive anastomoses were performed. The complication rate of 
endoscopic BD in patients with malignant pancreatobiliary tumors in our study 
was 7.8% and comparable with complication level due to ERCP/EST for benign 
pathology.

PMID: 25518487 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


247. Implement Sci. 2014 Dec 18;9:168. doi: 10.1186/s13012-014-0168-y.

Economic evaluation of implementation strategies in health care.

Hoomans T(1)(2), Severens JL(3)(4).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Policy & Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. thoomans@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu.
(2)Section of Hospital Medicine, Department of Medicine, University of Chicago, 
Chicago, USA. thoomans@medicine.bsd.uchicago.edu.
(3)Institute of Health Policy & Management, Erasmus University Rotterdam, 
Rotterdam, The Netherlands. severens@bmg.eur.nl.
(4)Institute of Medical Technology Assessment (iMTA), Erasmus University 
Rotterdam, Rotterdam, The Netherlands. severens@bmg.eur.nl.

Economic evaluations can inform decisions about the efficiency and allocation of 
resources to implementation strategies-strategies explicitly designed to inform 
care providers and patients about the best available research evidence and to 
enhance its use in their practices. These strategies are increasingly popular in 
health care, especially in light of growing concerns about quality of care and 
limits on resources. But such concerns have hardly motivated health authorities 
and other decision-makers to spend on some form of economic evaluation in their 
assessments of implementation strategies. This editorial addresses the 
importance of economic evaluation in the context of implementation 
science-particularly, how these analyses can be most efficiently incorporated 
into decision-making processes about implementation strategies.

DOI: 10.1186/s13012-014-0168-y
PMCID: PMC4279808
PMID: 25518730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


248. J Neurotrauma. 2015 Dec 1;32(23):1883-92. doi: 10.1089/neu.2014.3454. Epub
2015  Mar 25.

Mortality following Traumatic Brain Injury among Individuals Unable to Follow 
Commands at the Time of Rehabilitation Admission: A National Institute on 
Disability and Rehabilitation Research Traumatic Brain Injury Model Systems 
Study.

Greenwald BD(1), Hammond FM(2), Harrison-Felix C(3)(4), Nakase-Richardson R(5), 
Howe LL(6), Kreider S(7).

Author information:
(1)1 JFK Johnson Rehabilitation Center for Head Injuries, Rutgers Robert Wood 
Johnson Medical School , Edison, New Jersey.
(2)2 Indiana University School of Medicine , Indianapolis, Indiana.
(3)3 Craig Hospital , Englewood, Colorado.
(4)4 Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Colorado 
Denver , Aurora, Colorado.
(5)5 Department of Mental Health and Behavioral Sciences, James A. Haley 
Veterans Hospital , Tampa, Florida.
(6)6 Psychology Services, VA Palo Alto Health Care System , Palo Alto, 
California.
(7)7 Department of Education and Behavioral Sciences, University of Northern 
Colorado , Greely, Colorado.

Severe traumatic brain injury (TBI) has been associated with increased 
mortality. This study characterizes long-term mortality, life expectancy, causes 
of death, and risk factors for death among patients admitted within the National 
Institute on Disability and Rehabilitation Research (NIDRR) TBI Model Systems 
Programs (TBIMS) who lack command following at the time of admission for 
inpatient TBI rehabilitation. Of the 8084 persons enrolled from 1988 and 2009, 
387 from 20 centers met study criteria. Individuals with moderate to severe TBI 
who received inpatient rehabilitation were 2.2 times more likely to die than 
individuals in the U.S. general population of similar age, gender, and race, 
with an average life expectancy (LE) reduction of 6.6 years. The subset of 
individuals who were unable to follow commands on admission to rehabilitation 
was 6.9 times more likely to die, with an average LE reduction of 12.2 years. 
Relative to the U.S. general population matched for age, gender, and 
race/ethnicity, these non-command following individuals were more than four 
times more likely to die of circulatory conditions, 44 times more likely to die 
of pneumonia, and 38 times more likely to die of aspiration pneumonia. The 
subset of individuals with TBI who are unable to follow commands upon admission 
to inpatient rehabilitation are at a significantly increased risk of death when 
compared with the U.S. general population and compared with all individuals with 
moderate to severe TBI receiving inpatient rehabilitation. Respiratory causes of 
death predominate, compared with the general population.

DOI: 10.1089/neu.2014.3454
PMID: 25518731 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


249. Oper Orthop Traumatol. 2015 Jun;27(3):270-80. doi:
10.1007/s00064-014-0321-4.  Epub 2014 Dec 19.

Vertebral body replacement by posterior approach for metastatic disease in the 
thoracic spine--modified technique using an expandable cage.

Trobisch PD(1), Verma K.

Author information:
(1)Zentrum für Orthopädische Chirurgie, Eifelklinik St. Brigida, Kammerbruchstr. 
8, 52152, Simmerath, Germany, pertrobisch@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: To describe the technique of all-posterior vertebral body replacement 
using an expandable cage and angled instruments. This method facilitates implant 
seating with limited posterior decompression useful in the setting of metastatic 
disease.
INDICATIONS: Patients with metastatic disease of the thoracic spine with or 
without spinal cord compression.
CONTRAINDICATIONS: Patients with a limited life expectancy of less than 6 
months. Multiple foci of metastatic disease in the spine.
SURGICAL TECHNIQUE: A hemilaminectomy was performed followed by nerve root 
sacrifice. The pleura was mobilized away from the vertebral body, after which 
decompression and tumor resection was performed from an all-posterior approach. 
An expandable vertebral body cage was inserted with a rotational manoeuvre and 
expanded in situ.
POSTOPERATIVE MANAGEMENT: The patient was mobilized on postoperative day 1. A 
chest X-ray is also recommended to exclude incidental pneumothorax.
RESULTS: Four patients were operated by an all-posterior vertebral body 
replacement during a 6-month period. The average length of surgical procedure 
was 187 min (range 165-220 min). No patient required a transthoracic approach. 
There were no intra- or postoperative complications and all patients could be 
discharged to home self-ambulating.

DOI: 10.1007/s00064-014-0321-4
PMID: 25519037 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


250. BMC Cardiovasc Disord. 2014 Dec 18;14:193. doi: 10.1186/1471-2261-14-193.

Unanswered clinical questions in the management of cardiometabolic risk in the 
elderly: a statement of the Spanish Society of Internal Medicine.

Gómez-Huelgas R(1), Giner-Galvañ V, Mostaza JM, Cuende JI, de Miguel-Yanes JM, 
Rovira E, Sánchez-Fuentes D, Suárez Fernández C, Román Sánchez P; SEMI Working 
Group.

Author information:
(1)Hospital Regional Universitario, IBIMA, Málaga, Spain. 
ricardogomezhuelgas@hotmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Despite the progressive increase in life expectancy and the 
relationship between aging with multi-morbidities and the increased use of 
healthcare resources, current clinical practice guidelines (CPG) on 
cardiometabolic risk cannot be adequately applied to elderly subjects with 
multiple chronic conditions. Its management frequently becomes complicated by 
both, an excessive use of medications that may lead to overtreatment, drug 
interactions and increased toxicity, and errors in dosage and non-compliance. 
Concerned by this gap, the Spanish Society of Internal Medicine created a group 
of independent experts on cardiometabolic risk who discussed what they 
considered to be unanswered questions in the management of elderly patients.
DISCUSSION: Current guidelines do not specifically address the problem of 
elderly with multiple chronic conditions. For this reason, the combined use of 
the limited available evidence, clinical experience and common sense, could all 
help us to address this unmet need. In very old people, life expectancy and 
functionality are the most important factors for guiding potential treatments. 
Their higher propensity to develop serious adverse events and their shorter 
lifespan could prevent them from obtaining the potential benefits of the 
interventions administered.
SUMMARY: In this document, experts on cardiometabolic risk factors have 
established a number of consensual recommendations that have taken into account 
international guidelines and clinical experience, and have also considered the 
more effective use of healthcare resources. This document is intended to provide 
general recommendations for clinicians and to promote the effective use of 
procedures and medications.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2261-14-193
PMCID: PMC4289584
PMID: 25519433 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


251. Urologe A. 2015 Jan;54(1):14-21. doi: 10.1007/s00120-014-3697-8.

[Cytoreductive radical prostatectomy for prostate cancer with minimal osseous 
metastases: results of a first feasibility and case control study].

[Article in German]

Heidenreich A(1), Pfister D, Brehmer B, Porres D.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Urologie, Uniklinik RWTH Aachen, Pauwelsstraße 30, 52074, Aachen, 
Deutschland, aheidenreich@ukaachen.de.

BACKGROUND: Androgen deprivation therapy (ADT) represents the standard treatment 
for patients with prostate cancer (PCA) and osseous metastases. We explored the 
role of cytoreductive radical prostatectomy in PCA with low volume skeletal 
metastases in terms of a feasibility study.
MATERIAL AND METHODS: A total of 23 patients with biopsy proven PCA, minimal 
osseous metastases (≤3 hot spots on bone scan), absence of visceral or extensive 
lymph node metastases and a decrease in prostate-specific antigen (PSA) to <1.0 
ng/ml after neoadjuvant ADT were included in the feasibility study (group A). 
The control group (group B) consisted of 38 men with metastatic PCA who were 
treated by ADT alone. Surgery-related complications, time to castration 
resistance, symptom-free, cancer-specific and overall survival were analyzed 
using descriptive statistical analyses.
RESULTS: The mean age was 61 years (range 42-69 years) and 64 years (47-83) in 
groups A and B, respectively, with similar patient characteristics in terms of 
initial PSA level, biopsy Gleason score, clinical stage and extent of metastatic 
disease. The median follow-up was 34.5 months (7-75 months) and 47 months (28-96 
months) in groups A and B, respectively. Median time to castration resistance 
was 40 months (9-65 months) and 29 months (16-59 months) in groups A and B, 
respectively (p=0.04). Patients in group A experienced significantly better 
clinical symptom-free (38.6 versus 26.5 months, p=0.032) and cancer-specific 
survival rates (95.6% versus 84.2%, p=0.043) whereas the overall survival was 
similar. In group A none of the men underwent palliative surgical procedures for 
locally progressing PCA compared to 29% in group B.
CONCLUSIONS: Cytoreductive radical prostatectomy is feasible in well-selected 
men with metastatic PCA who responded well to neoadjuvant ADT. These men have a 
long life expectancy and the risk of locally recurrent PCA and local 
complications are reduced. Cytoreductive radical prostatectomy might be a 
treatment option in the multimodal management of PCA with minimal osseous 
metastases.

DOI: 10.1007/s00120-014-3697-8
PMID: 25519996 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


252. Health Econ. 2016 Feb;25(2):212-24. doi: 10.1002/hec.3134. Epub 2014 Dec 17.

Response Patterns in Health State Valuation Using Endogenous Attribute 
Attendance and Latent Class Analysis.

Hole AR(1), Norman R(2), Viney R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, UK.
(2)School of Public Health, Curtin University, Perth, Australia.
(3)CHERE, University of Technology Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

Not accounting for simplifying decision-making heuristics when modelling data 
from discrete choice experiments has been shown potentially to lead to biased 
inferences. This study considers two ways of exploring the presence of attribute 
non-attendance (that is, respondents considering only a subset of the attributes 
that define the choice options) in a health state valuation discrete choice 
experiment. The methods used include the latent class (LC) and endogenous 
attribute attendance (EAA) models, which both required adjustment to reflect the 
structure of the quality-adjusted life year (QALY) framework for valuing health 
outcomes. We find that explicit consideration of attendance patterns 
substantially improves model fit. The impact of allowing for non-attendance on 
the estimated QALY weights is dependent on the assumed source of non-attendance. 
If non-attendance is interpreted as a form of preference heterogeneity, then the 
inferences from the LC and EAA models are similar to those from standard models, 
while if respondents ignore attributes to simplify the choice task, the QALY 
weights differ from those using the standard approach. Because the cause of 
non-attendance is unknown in the absence of additional data, a policymaker may 
use the range of weights implied by the two approaches to conduct a sensitivity 
analysis.

Copyright © 2014 John Wiley & Sons, Ltd.

DOI: 10.1002/hec.3134
PMID: 25521533 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


253. PLoS Genet. 2014 Dec 18;10(12):e1004860. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004860. 
eCollection 2014 Dec.

Enhanced longevity by ibuprofen, conserved in multiple species, occurs in yeast 
through inhibition of tryptophan import.

He C(1), Tsuchiyama SK(1), Nguyen QT(2), Plyusnina EN(3), Terrill SR(2), 
Sahibzada S(2), Patel B(1), Faulkner AR(1), Shaposhnikov MV(3), Tian R(1), 
Tsuchiya M(1), Kaeberlein M(4), Moskalev AA(5), Kennedy BK(1), Polymenis M(2).

Author information:
(1)Buck Institute for Research on Aging, Novato, California, United States of 
America.
(2)Department of Biochemistry and Biophysics, Texas A&M University, College 
Station, Texas, United States of America.
(3)Institute of Biology of Komi Science Center of Ural Branch of RAS, Syktyvkar, 
Russia; Syktyvkar State University, Syktyvkar, Russia.
(4)Department of Pathology, University of Washington, Seattle, Washington, 
United States of America.
(5)Institute of Biology of Komi Science Center of Ural Branch of RAS, Syktyvkar, 
Russia; Syktyvkar State University, Syktyvkar, Russia; Moscow Institute of 
Physics and Technology (State University), Dolgoprudny, Russia.

The common non-steroidal anti-inflammatory drug ibuprofen has been associated 
with a reduced risk of some age-related pathologies. However, a general 
pro-longevity role for ibuprofen and its mechanistic basis remains unclear. Here 
we show that ibuprofen increased the lifespan of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, 
Caenorhabditis elegans and Drosophila melanogaster, indicative of conserved 
eukaryotic longevity effects. Studies in yeast indicate that ibuprofen 
destabilizes the Tat2p permease and inhibits tryptophan uptake. Loss of Tat2p 
increased replicative lifespan (RLS), but ibuprofen did not increase RLS when 
Tat2p was stabilized or in an already long-lived strain background impaired for 
aromatic amino acid uptake. Concomitant with lifespan extension, ibuprofen 
moderately reduced cell size at birth, leading to a delay in the G1 phase of the 
cell cycle. Similar changes in cell cycle progression were evident in a large 
dataset of replicatively long-lived yeast deletion strains. These results point 
to fundamental cell cycle signatures linked with longevity, implicate aromatic 
amino acid import in aging and identify a largely safe drug that extends 
lifespan across different kingdoms of life.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004860
PMCID: PMC4270464
PMID: 25521617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


254. Cochrane Database Syst Rev. 2014;2014(12):CD010729. doi: 
10.1002/14651858.CD010729.pub2. Epub 2014 Dec 18.

Biologics, colchicine, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants and interferon-alpha 
for Neuro-Behçet's Syndrome.

Nava F(1), Ghilotti F, Maggi L, Hatemi G, Del Bianco A, Merlo C, Filippini G, 
Tramacere I.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Statistical Science, University of Milano-Bicocca, via Bicocca 
degli Arcimboldi 8, Milan, Italy.

Update of
    doi: 10.1002/14651858.CD010729.

BACKGROUND: Neuro-Behçet Syndrome (NBS) is a severe chronic inflammatory 
vascular disease involving the Central Nervous System (CNS), and it is an 
invalidating condition with disability and a huge impact on quality of life. 
Recommendations on treatments for NBS include the use of disease-modifying 
therapies in general, although they are not supported by a systematic review of 
the evidence.
OBJECTIVES: To assess the benefit and harms of available treatments for NBS, 
including biologics, colchicine, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants and 
interferon-alpha.
SEARCH METHODS: We searched the following databases up to 30 September 2014: 
Trials Specialised Register of The Cochrane Multiple Sclerosis and Rare Diseases 
of the Central Nervous System Group, CENTRAL, MEDLINE, EMBASE, CINAHL, LILACS, 
ORPHANET, Clinicaltrials.gov and World Health Organization (WHO) International 
Clinical Trials Registry Portal.
SELECTION CRITERIA: Randomised controlled trials (RCTs), controlled clinical 
trials (CCTs), prospective and retrospective controlled cohort studies were 
eligible to assess the benefit. Patients over 13 years of age with a diagnosis 
of NBS. For assessment of harms, open-label extension (OLE), case-control 
studies, population-based registries, case-series and case-reports were 
additionally planned to be evaluated.
DATA COLLECTION AND ANALYSIS: Selection of studies, data extraction and 
assessment of risk of bias were planned to be carried out independently by two 
review authors. Standard methodological procedures expected by The Cochrane 
Collaboration were followed. We planned to perform standard pair-wise 
meta-analyses for RCTs, and meta-analyses based on the adjusted estimates using 
the inverse-variance weighted average method for non-randomised studies (NRSs). 
We planned to present the main results of the review in a 'Summary of Findings' 
table using the GRADE approach.
MAIN RESULTS: No RCTs, CCTs or controlled cohort studies on the benefit of the 
treatments for NBS met the inclusion criteria of the review. Only one 
potentially eligible study was identified, but it did not report sufficient 
details on the patient characteristics. The author of this study did not provide 
additional data on request, and therefore it was excluded. Hence, no studies 
were included in the present review. Since no studies were included in the 
assessment of benefit, no further search was performed in order to collect data 
on harms.
AUTHORS' CONCLUSIONS: There is no evidence to support or refute the benefit of 
biologics, colchicine, corticosteroids, immunosuppressants and interferon-alpha 
for the treatment of patients with NBS. Thus, well-designed multicentre RCTs are 
needed in order to inform and guide clinical practice.

DOI: 10.1002/14651858.CD010729.pub2
PMCID: PMC10594584
PMID: 25521793 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: FN ‐ none FG ‐ none LM ‐ none GH ‐ none ADB ‐ 
none CM ‐ none GF ‐ none IT ‐ none


255. Int Orthop. 2015 Mar;39(3):521-5. doi: 10.1007/s00264-014-2629-y. Epub 2014
Dec  20.

Long-term functional outcome and quality of life after successful surgical 
treatment of tibial nonunions.

Wichlas F(1), Tsitsilonis S, Disch AC, Haas NP, Hartmann C, Graef F, Schwabe P.

Author information:
(1)Center for Musculoskeletal Surgery, Charité - Universitätsmedizin Berlin, 
Augustenburger Platz 1, 13353, Berlin, Germany.

PURPOSE: Our aim was to evaluate quality of life (QoL) and functional outcome of 
patients with tibial nonunions after completion of surgical treatment with an 
