formy zlojakisnyh novoutvoren' perevyshhuje nacional'ni pokaznyky til'ky v grupi 
ULNA 1986–1987 rr. uchasti. U meshkanciv radioaktyvno zabrudnenyh terytorij v 
ostanni roky vidmicheno znyzhennja rivnja zahvorjuvanosti, shho mozhe buty 
pov’jazano zi skorochennjam seredn'oi' ochikuvanoi' tryvalosti zhyttja, osoblyvo 
cholovikiv. Takozh bulo zarejestrovano zrostannja ryzyku zahvorjuvanosti na 
lejkemiju sered ULNA. Krim togo, v usih tr'oh osnovnyh grupah postrazhdalyh 
vyjavleno znachnyj eksces zahvorjuvanosti na rak shhytopodibnoi' zalozy. 
Oprominennja shhytopodibnoi' zalozy vnaslidok dii' opadiv radioaktyvnogo jodu 
mozhe buty golovnoju prychynoju vstanovlenogo ekscesu cijei' patologii'. 
Zrostannja zahvorjuvanosti na rak shhytopodibnoi' zalozy zarejestrovano ne 
til'ky u ditej, ale takozh u pidlitkiv ta doroslyh. Kil'kist' nadlyshkovyh 
vypadkiv raku shhytopodibnoi' zalozy, jak naslidku radiacijnogo oprominennja, 
maje tendenciju do zrostannja z plynom chasu. Suttjeve pidvyshhennja 
zahvorjuvanosti na rak molochnoi' zalozy bulo vyjavleno u zhinok ULNA 1986–1987 
rr. uchasti. Oskil'ky latentnyj period dlja riznyh nozologichnyh form radiacijno 
indukovanyh puhlyn vidriznjajet'sja, u podal'shyh doslidzhennjah slid prydiljaty 
uvagu ne til'ky zaznachenym formam zlojakisnyh puhlyn, ale j novoutvorennjam z 
bil'sh tryvalym latentnym periodom: legeniv, shlunku, prjamoi' kyshky, 
jajeshnyka, sechovogo mihura, nyrky ta mnozhynnij mijelomi.

A. Ye. Prysyazhnyuk, D. A. Bazyka, A. Yu. Romanenko, N. A. Gudzenko, M. M. 
Fuzik, N. K. Trotsyuk, Z. P. Fedorenko, L. O. Gulak, K. M. Slipenyuk, N. G. 
Babkina, O. M. Khukhrianska, Ye. L. Goroh, Zh. M. Berestyana.

PMID: 25536554


296. Int J Aging Hum Dev. 2014;79(2):109-29. doi: 10.2190/AG.79.2.b.

Baby Boomers' subjective life course and its physical health effects: how 
distinctive is the "forever young" cohort?

Barrett AE, Toothman EL.

We consider members of the "forever young" cohort's negotiation of aging by 
examining how shifts in their views of the life course and their location in it 
influence their physical health. Using OLS regression (Midlife in the United 
States, 1995-1996 and 2004-2006; n = 1,257), we compare Early and Late Baby 
Boomers' subjective life course, measured as age identity and timing of middle 
age, and its physical health effects with those of an earlier cohort, the Lucky 
Few. Contrary to expectations, the earlier cohort not only held more elongated 
conceptions of the life course at Wave 1 but also lengthened them more between 
waves than did Baby Boomers. Results also failed to support the notion of 
youthful conceptions having stronger health consequences for Baby Boomers. 
Examining more cohorts over longer timespans would illuminate how developmental 
aging processes intersect with sociohistorical contexts to shape the subjective 
life course and its health consequences.

DOI: 10.2190/AG.79.2.b
PMID: 25536702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


297. Head Neck. 2016 Apr;38 Suppl 1:E214-20. doi: 10.1002/hed.23972. Epub 2015
Jun  16.

Endoscopic transnasal approaches to pterygopalatine fossa tumors.

Battaglia P(1), Turri-Zanoni M(1), Lepera D(1), Sica E(1), Karligkiotis A(1), 
Dallan I(1), Castelnuovo P(1).

Author information:
(1)Unit of Otorhinolaryngology, Department of Biotechnology and Life Sciences, 
University of Insubria, Varese, Italy.

BACKGROUND: The pterygopalatine fossa (PPF) is a difficult area to access, as it 
has been traditionally treated by external approaches. The development of 
endoscopic transnasal approaches enables surgeons to reach this region through a 
minimally invasive route, reducing the associated morbidity.
METHODS: We conducted a retrospective review of patients with benign and 
malignant tumors arising in or extending to the PPF, treated from 2000 to 2013 
at a single institute, using endoscopic transnasal transmaxillary approaches.
RESULTS: Thirty-seven consecutive patients with benign (27 cases) and malignant 
(10 cases) tumors were treated with curative intent. Radical resection was 
achieved in 36 of 37 patients. No major complications were observed. No local 
recurrences were observed, with a median follow-up of 38.5 months for 
malignancies and 60 months for benign tumors.
CONCLUSION: The endoscopic transnasal approaches are safe and feasible 
techniques for the radical resection of selected tumors involving the PPF and 
should be tailored according to the biology and extension of the lesion. © 2015 
Wiley Periodicals, Inc. Head Neck 38: E214-E220, 2016.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/hed.23972
PMID: 25536922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


298. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2015 Apr;13(2):149-56. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-014-0142-5.

A systematic review on cost effectiveness of HIV prevention interventions in the 
United States.

Huang YL(1), Lasry A, Hutchinson AB, Sansom SL.

Author information:
(1)Division of HIV/AIDS Prevention, National Center for HIV/AIDS, Viral 
Hepatitis, STD, and TB Prevention, Centers for Disease Control and Prevention, 
1600 Clifton Rd. NE, Mailstop E-48, Atlanta, GA, 30329, USA, yhuang@cdc.gov.

Comment in
    Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2015 Apr;13(2):129-33.

BACKGROUND: The Centers for Disease Control and Prevention (CDC) focus on 
funding HIV prevention interventions likely to have high impact on the HIV 
epidemic. In its most recent funding announcement to state and local health 
department grantees, CDC required that health departments allocate the majority 
of funds to four HIV prevention interventions: HIV testing, prevention with 
HIV-positives and their partners, condom distribution and policy initiatives.
OBJECTIVE: We conducted a systematic review of the published literature to 
determine the extent of the cost-effectiveness evidence for each of those 
interventions.
METHODOLOGY: We searched for US-based studies published through October 2012. 
The studies that qualified for inclusion contained original analyses that 
reported costs per quality-adjusted life-year saved, life-year saved, HIV 
infection averted, or new HIV diagnosis. For each study, paired reviewers 
performed a detailed review and data extraction. We reported the number of 
studies related to each intervention and summarized key cost-effectiveness 
findings according to intervention type. Costs were converted to 2011 US 
dollars.
RESULTS: Of the 50 articles that met the inclusion criteria, 33 related to HIV 
testing, 15 assessed prevention with HIV-positives and partners, three reported 
on condom distribution, and one reported on policy initiatives. Methodologies 
and cost-effectiveness metrics varied across studies and interventions, making 
them difficult to compare.
CONCLUSION: Our review provides an updated summary of the published evidence of 
cost effectiveness of four key HIV prevention interventions recommended by CDC. 
With the exception of testing-related interventions, including partner services, 
where economic evaluations suggest that testing often can be cost effective, 
more cost-effectiveness research is needed to help guide the most efficient use 
of HIV prevention funds.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-014-0142-5
PMID: 25536927 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


299. Cancer. 2015 May 1;121(9):1379-86. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29214. Epub 2014 Dec
23.

Performance of digital screening mammography among older women in the United 
States.

Henderson LM(1), O'Meara ES, Braithwaite D, Onega T; Breast Cancer Surveillance 
Consortium.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North 
Carolina.

BACKGROUND: Although healthy women aged 65 years have a life expectancy of 20 
years, there is a paucity of data on the performance of digital screening 
mammography among these women. The authors examined the performance and outcomes 
of digital screening mammography among a national group of women aged ≥65 years.
METHODS: From Breast Cancer Surveillance Consortium data for the years 2005 to 
2011, the authors included 296,496 full-field digital screening mammograms among 
133,042 women ages ≥65 years without a history of breast cancer. Sensitivity, 
specificity, positive predictive value (PPV1 ), recall rates, and 95% confidence 
intervals (95% CIs) were calculated across the spectrum of age and breast 
density. Multivariate logistic regression was used to compare mammography 
accuracy, cancer-detection rates (CDRs), and tumor characteristics by age and 
breast density.
RESULTS: Multivariate analyses revealed a significant decrease in the recall 
rate with age (P for linear trend [Ptrend ] < .001) and significant increases in 
specificity, PPV1 , and CDR with age (Ptrend  < .001, Ptrend  < .001, and Ptrend 
 = .01, respectively). Sensitivity did not vary significantly with age. Among 
women with cancer, the proportion with invasive disease increased with age from 
76% at ages 65 to 74 years to 81% at ages ≥80 years. There was a higher 
proportion of late stage cancers and positive lymph nodes among women ages 65 to 
74 years compared with women in the older age groups.
CONCLUSIONS: The specificity, PPV1 , recall rate, and CDR of digital screening 
mammography improved with increased age. In addition, as age increased, the 
proportion of women with invasive versus ductal carcinoma in situ rose, whereas 
the proportion of women with positive lymph nodes decreased.

© 2014 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.29214
PMCID: PMC4409463
PMID: 25537958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflicts of Interest None


300. Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2015 Jan;30(1):23-7. doi: 10.1093/ndt/gfu382. Epub
2014  Dec 23.

Con: Frequent haemodialysis for all chronic haemodialysis patients.

Labriola L(1), Morelle J(1), Jadoul M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Cliniques universitaires Saint-Luc, Université 
catholique de Louvain, Brussels, Belgium.

Comment in
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2015 Jan;30(1):29-32.
    Nephrol Dial Transplant. 2015 Jan;30(1):27-8.

Frequent haemodialysis (HD) regimens have been proposed with the aim to improve 
survival and other important patient outcomes. They indeed avoid the long 
interdialytic interval and have been associated with some proven benefits, i.e. 
an improvement in blood pressure and phosphataemia control, a reduction in left 
ventricular mass and lower ultrafiltration rates. However, the actual impact of 
frequent HD regimens on survival is, at best, inconclusive and, at worse, 
harmful, and remains uncertain regarding nutritional status and anaemia control. 
Moreover, the higher rates of vascular access complications and more rapid 
development of anuria with frequent HD regimens are worrying. Frequent HD also 
considerably increases the burden for patients and their caregivers, logistics 
and costs, especially with in-centre frequent schedules. In our opinion, before 
increasing HD frequency, a number of underused strategies summarized in our 
review and able to improve patient tolerance and/or HD dose should be tested 
first, taking into account patient's characteristics and life expectancy. 
Frequent HD schedules should be reserved for selected cases, only after all 
other available options have failed.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of ERA-EDTA. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1093/ndt/gfu382
PMID: 25538159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]301. J Biol Chem. 2015 Feb 13;290(7):4282-90. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.603712. Epub
2014  Dec 23.

pH-dependent binding engineering reveals an FcRn affinity threshold that governs 
IgG recycling.

Borrok MJ(1), Wu Y(1), Beyaz N(1), Yu XQ(2), Oganesyan V(1), Dall'Acqua WF(3), 
Tsui P(4).

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Antibody Discovery and Protein Engineering and.
(2)Clinical Pharmacology and Drug Metabolism and Pharmacokinetics, MedImmune, 
Inc., Gaithersburg, Maryland 20878.
(3)From the Departments of Antibody Discovery and Protein Engineering and 
dallacquaw@medimmune.com.
(4)From the Departments of Antibody Discovery and Protein Engineering and 
tsuip@medimmune.com.

The Fc domain of IgG has been the target of multiple mutational studies aimed at 
altering the pH-dependent IgG/FcRn interaction to modulate IgG pharmacokinetics. 
These studies have yielded antibody variants with disparate pharmacokinetic 
characteristics, ranging from extended in vivo half-life to those exhibiting 
extremely rapid clearance. To better understand pH-dependent binding parameters 
that govern these outcomes and limit FcRn-mediated half-life extension, we 
generated a panel of novel Fc variants with high affinity binding at acidic pH 
that vary in pH 7.4 affinities and assessed pharmacokinetic outcomes. 
Pharmacokinetic studies in human FcRn transgenic mice and cynomolgus monkeys 
showed that multiple variants with increased FcRn affinities at acidic pH 
exhibited extended serum half-lives relative to the parental IgG. Importantly, 
the results reveal an underappreciated affinity threshold of neutral pH binding 
that determines IgG recycling efficiency. Variants with pH 7.4 FcRn affinities 
below this threshold recycle efficiently and can exhibit increased serum 
persistence. Increasing neutral pH FcRn affinity beyond this threshold reduced 
serum persistence by offsetting the benefits of increased pH 6.0 binding. 
Ultra-high affinity binding to FcRn at both acidic and neutral pH leads to rapid 
serum clearance.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M114.603712
PMCID: PMC4326836
PMID: 25538249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


302. Indian J Crit Care Med. 2014 Dec;18(12):825-7. doi:
10.4103/0972-5229.146324.

Acute airway obstruction due to spontaneous intrathyroid hemorrhage precipitated 
by anticoagulation therapy.

Kokatnur L(1), Rudrappa M(2), Mittadodla P(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, University of Arkansas for Medical Science, 
Arkansas, USA.
(2)Department of Pulmonary and Critical Care, University of Arkansas for Medical 
Science, Arkansas, USA.

Acute airway compromise due to hemorrhage in of thyroid gland is a rare 
life-hreating condition. The increasing use of anticoagulants for various 
reasons is likely increased the occurrence of this this complication. We 
describe an elderly patient on anticoagulation for atrial fibrillation, which 
developed swelling on the right side of neck causing acute airway obstruction 
requiring emergency intubation for airway protection. Computed tomographic scan 
showed massive intrathyroid hemorrhage along with substernal extension. She had 
supratherapeutic INR which was appropriately corrected emergently. She underwent 
resection of the thyroid gland which showed multinodular goiter without any 
evidence of malignancy. Our case illustrates the rare but lethal bleeding 
complication of anticoagulants in critical anatomical area and we request 
physicians should be wary of similar conditions.

DOI: 10.4103/0972-5229.146324
PMCID: PMC4271284
PMID: 25538419

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


303. J Asthma. 2015;52(6):529-37. doi: 10.3109/02770903.2014.999283. Epub 2015
Jul  25.

Cost-effectiveness of asthma therapy: a comprehensive review.

Domínguez-Ortega J(1), Phillips-Anglés E, Barranco P, Quirce S.

Author information:
(1)a Department of Allergy , Hospital La Paz Institute for Health Research 
(IdiPAZ) , Madrid , Spain.

BACKGROUND: Asthma has an important impact in terms of both direct and indirect 
costs. In Europe, the disease costs € 19 000 million a year. Moreover, the cost 
is greater among patients with severe uncontrolled asthma and is even higher 
when the work productivity is also taken into account. Improved control of the 
disease results in cost savings. In this context, cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility studies offer important information for clinicians in deciding the 
best treatment options for asthmatic patients and contribute to ensure an 
efficient use of the available healthcare resources.
METHODS: An English and Spanish literature search using electronic search 
engines (PubMed and EMBASE) was conducted in peer-review journals, from 2009 to 
June 2014. In order to perform the search for the most suitable and 
representative articles, key words were selected ("asthma", 
"cost-effectiveness", "cost-utility", "QALY", "cost-benefit", "economic impact 
of asthma" "healthcare cost", "asthma treatment" and "work productivity with 
asthma").
RESULTS: Two-hundred forty-three titles and abstracts were identified by the 
primary literature search. The full text of the potentially 76 eligible papers 
was reviewed, and 22 articles were qualified to be finally included.
CONCLUSIONS: This article provides a comprehensive review on the evidence of 
cost-effectiveness of asthma treatments derived from the published literature 
and offers an overall summary of the socioeconomic burden of asthma and its 
relationship with the degree of disease control. Management alternatives, such 
as the use of combination therapy with ICS/LABA or omalizumab, when administered 
according to their current therapeutic indications, have been shown to be 
cost-effective.

DOI: 10.3109/02770903.2014.999283
PMID: 25539023 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


304. Int J Radiat Oncol Biol Phys. 2014 Dec 1;90(5):1126-35. doi: 
10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.06.069.

A decade of comparative dose planning studies for early-stage Hodgkin lymphoma: 
what can we learn?

Maraldo MV(1), Specht L(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oncology, Section of Radiotherapy, Rigshospitalet, University 
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark. Electronic address: dra.maraldo@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Oncology, Section of Radiotherapy, Rigshospitalet, University 
of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark; Department of Hematology, Rigshospitalet, 
University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

During the past 4 decades, the treatment of Hodgkin lymphoma has changed 
dramatically, and combined modality treatment is now considered the standard of 
care for patients with early-stage disease. However, the risk of late effects 
has led to concerns regarding the use of radiation therapy, especially in young 
patients with a long life expectancy. In this study, we review the current 
evidence for modern radiation therapy planning and delivery techniques in the 
treatment of early-stage Hodgkin lymphoma with a focus on a reduced delivered 
dose, a reduced irradiated volume, and a more conformal dose distribution. 
Although studies are difficult to compare because of differences in field 
technique, prescribed dose, target volumes, patient population, and reported 
dosimetric and plan evaluation parameters, modern radiation therapy 
significantly reduces exposure to normal tissues and thereby the estimated risk 
of late effects. However, there is no such thing as a single best modern 
delivery technique when multiple organs at risk are considered simultaneously 
because of the heterogeneity in patient anatomy and disease location, and the 
choice of radiation therapy technique should be made individually for each 
patient.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ijrobp.2014.06.069
PMID: 25539371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


305. Turk J Med Sci. 2014;44(5):799-803. doi: 10.3906/sag-1304-6.

Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index scores and their relationship with body 
measurements in late menopause patients.

Ayrim A, Aktepe Keskın E, Özol D.

BACKGROUND/AIM: With an increase in life expectancy, women live about one-third 
of their lives in the postmenopausal period. Our aim was to investigate the 
findings regarding quality of sleep and sleep apnea in postmenopausal women and 
research the relationship between sleep complaints and body measurements.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The Pittsburgh Sleep Quality Index (PSQI) was 
administered to all participants and their height, weight, and neck 
circumferences were measured.
RESULTS: A total of 206 patients (mean age: 61.4 ± 8.8 years) were included. 
Their mean weight gain after menopause was 8.1 ± 12.8 kg, and their mean neck 
circumference and body mass index was 39.7 ± 2.6 cm and 33.4 ± 2.1, 
respectively. The rate of patients who snored each night increased from 3.4% to 
13.2% (P = 0.000) after menopause. The rate of self-reported poor sleep quality 
was found in 57.8% of patients according to the PSQI global score (≥5). The 
prevalence of sleep medication usage increased from 5.8% to 11.2% with 
menopause. Although body measurements were a little lower in patients with a 
total PSQI score of less than 5, this difference was insignificant.
CONCLUSION: The prevalence of self-reported poor sleep quality was high in the 
postmenopausal period and the prevalence of snoring increased significantly with 
weight gain after menopause.

DOI: 10.3906/sag-1304-6
PMID: 25539548 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


306. Demography. 2015 Feb;52(1):39-60. doi: 10.1007/s13524-014-0363-0.

On the beginning of mortality acceleration.

Salinari G(1), De Santis G.

Author information:
(1)Department of Economics and Business, University of Sassari, Sassari, Italy, 
gsalinari@uniss.it.

Physiological senescence is characterized by the increasing limitation of 
capabilities of an organism resulting from the progressive accumulation of 
molecular damage, which at group (cohort) level translates into, among other 
things, an increase in mortality risks with age. Physiological senescence is 
generally thought to begin at birth, if not earlier, but models of demographic 
aging (i.e., an increase in mortality risks) normally start at considerably 
later ages. This apparent inconsistency can be solved by assuming the existence 
of two mortality regimes: "latent" and "manifest" aging. Up to a certain age, 
there is only latent aging: physiological senescence occurs, but its low level 
does not trigger any measurable increase in mortality. Past a certain level (and 
age), molecular damage is such that mortality risks start to increase. We first 
discuss why this transition from latent to manifest aging should exist at all, 
and then we turn to the empirical estimation of the corresponding threshold age 
by applying Bai's approach to the estimation of breakpoints in time series. Our 
analysis, which covers several cohorts born between 1850 and 1938 in 14 of the 
countries included in the Human Mortality Database, indicates that an age at the 
onset of manifest aging can be identified. However, it has not remained 
constant: it has declined from about 43 and 47 years, respectively, for males 
and females at the beginning of the period (cohorts born in 1850-1869) to about 
31 for both males and females toward its end (cohorts born in 1920-1938). A 
discussion of why this may have happened ensues.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-014-0363-0
PMID: 25539596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


307. J Midlife Health. 2014 Oct;5(4):168-75. doi: 10.4103/0976-7800.145152.

Dermatosis associated with menopause.

Nair PA(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Dermatology and Venereology, Pramukhswami Medical College, 
Karamsad, Gujarat, India.

Menopause is defined as permanent irreversible cessation of menses brought by 
decline in ovarian follicular activity. Hormonal alteration results in various 
physical, psychological, and sexual changes in menopausal women. Associated 
dermatological problems can be classified as physiological changes, age-related 
changes, changes due to estrogen deficiency and due to hormone replacement 
therapy. Dermatosis seen due to estrogen deficiency includes Atrophic 
Vulvovaginitis, Vulvar Lichen Sclerosus, Dyaesthetic Vulvodynia, Hirsutism, 
Alopecia, Menopausal Flushing, Keratoderma Climactericum, Vulvovaginal 
Candidiasis. Dermatologists and gynecologists need to be familiar with the 
problems of menopausal women, as with increase in life expectancy, women passing 
through this phase is rising.

DOI: 10.4103/0976-7800.145152
PMCID: PMC4264279
PMID: 25540566

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


308. FEBS Lett. 2015 Jan 30;589(3):349-57. doi: 10.1016/j.febslet.2014.12.020.
Epub  2014 Dec 23.

Disruption of Snf3/Rgt2 glucose sensors decreases lifespan and caloric 
restriction effectiveness through Mth1/Std1 by adjusting mitochondrial 
efficiency in yeast.

Choi KM(1), Kwon YY(1), Lee CK(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea 
University, Seoul 136-701, Republic of Korea.
(2)Division of Biotechnology, College of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, Korea 
University, Seoul 136-701, Republic of Korea. Electronic address: 
cklee2005@korea.ac.kr.

Down-regulation of intracellular nutrient signal pathways was proposed to be a 
primary mechanism of caloric restriction (CR)-mediated lifespan extension. 
However, the link between lifespan and glucose sensors in the plasma membrane 
was poorly understood in yeast. Herein, a mutant that lacked glucose sensors 
(snf3Δrgt2Δ) had impaired glucose fermentation, showed decreased chronological 
lifespan (CLS), and reduced CLS extension by CR. The mutant also had reduced 
mitochondrial efficiency, as inferred by increased mitochondrial superoxide and 
decreased ATP levels. Mth1 and Std1, which are downstream effectors of the 
Snf3/Rgt2 pathway, were required for viability through mitochondrial function 
but not fermentative metabolism.

Copyright © 2015 Federation of European Biochemical Societies. Published by 
Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.febslet.2014.12.020
PMID: 25541485 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


309. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 26;9(12):e115878. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115878. 
eCollection 2014.

Life table parameters of three Mirid Bug (Adelphocoris) species (Hemiptera: 
Miridae) under contrasted relative humidity regimes.

Pan H(1), Liu B(1), Lu Y(1), Desneux N(2).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory for Biology of Plant Diseases and Insect Pests, 
Institute of Plant Protection, Chinese Academy of Agricultural Sciences, 
Beijing, China.
(2)French National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), Sophia-Antipolis, 
France.

The genus Adelphocoris (Hemiptera: Miridae) is a group of important insect pests 
of Bt cotton in China. The three dominant species are A. lineolatus, A. 
suturalis, and A. fasciaticollis, and these species have different population 
dynamics. The causal factors for the differences in population dynamics have not 
been determined; one hypothesis is that humidity may be important for the growth 
of Adelphocoris populations. In the laboratory, the demographic parameters of 
the three Adelphocoris species were compared when the mirid bugs were subjected 
to various levels of relative humidity (40, 50, 60, 70 and 80% RH). Middle to 
high levels of RH (60, 70 and 80%) were associated with higher egg and nymph 
survival rates and increased adult longevity and female fecundity. Lower 
humidity levels (40 and 50% RH) had negative effects on the survival of nymphs, 
adult longevity and fecundity. The intrinsic rate of increase (rm), the net 
reproductive rate (R0) and the finite rate of increase (λ) for each Adelphocoris 
species increased with increasing RH. Significant positive relationships were 
found between RH and the life table parameters, rm, R0 and λ for the three 
Adelphocoris species. These results will help to better understand the phenology 
of the three Adelphocoris species, and the information can be used in population 
growth models to optimize pest forecasting and management strategies for these 
key pests.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115878
PMCID: PMC4277414
PMID: 25541705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: Nicolas Desneux (coauthor 
of this study) is a PLOS ONE editorial board member, but this does not alter the 
authors' adherence to PLOS ONE editorial policies and criteria.


310. Cell. 2015 Jan 15;160(1-2):132-44. doi: 10.1016/j.cell.2014.11.048. Epub
2014  Dec 23.

Endogenous hydrogen sulfide production is essential for dietary restriction 
benefits.

Hine C(1), Harputlugil E(1), Zhang Y(1), Ruckenstuhl C(2), Lee BC(3), Brace 
L(1), Longchamp A(4), Treviño-Villarreal JH(1), Mejia P(1), Ozaki CK(5), Wang 
R(6), Gladyshev VN(3), Madeo F(7), Mair WB(1), Mitchell JR(8).

Author information:
(1)Department of Genetics and Complex Diseases, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(2)Institute for Molecular Biosciences, NAWI Graz, University of Graz, Graz 
8010, Austria.
(3)Division of Genetics, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital 
and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(4)Department of Genetics and Complex Diseases, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA; 
Department of Surgery and the Heart and Vascular Center, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(5)Department of Surgery and the Heart and Vascular Center, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA.
(6)Department of Biology, Lakehead University, Thunder Bay, ON P7B 5E1, Canada.
(7)Institute for Molecular Biosciences, NAWI Graz, University of Graz, Graz 
8010, Austria; BioTechMed Graz, Humboldtstrasse 50, Graz 8010, Austria.
(8)Department of Genetics and Complex Diseases, Harvard School of Public Health, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA 02115, USA. 
Electronic address: jmitchel@hsph.harvard.edu.

Comment in
    Cell. 2015 Jan 15;160(1-2):15-7.

Dietary restriction (DR) without malnutrition encompasses numerous regimens with 
overlapping benefits including longevity and stress resistance, but unifying 
nutritional and molecular mechanisms remain elusive. In a mouse model of 
DR-mediated stress resistance, we found that sulfur amino acid (SAA) restriction 
increased expression of the transsulfuration pathway (TSP) enzyme cystathionine 
γ-lyase (CGL), resulting in increased hydrogen sulfide (H2S) production and 
protection from hepatic ischemia reperfusion injury. SAA supplementation, mTORC1 
activation, or chemical/genetic CGL inhibition reduced H2S production and 
blocked DR-mediated stress resistance. In vitro, the mitochondrial protein SQR 
was required for H2S-mediated protection during nutrient/oxygen deprivation. 
Finally, TSP-dependent H2S production was observed in yeast, worm, fruit fly, 
and rodent models of DR-mediated longevity. Together, these data are consistent 
with evolutionary conservation of TSP-mediated H2S as a mediator of DR benefits 
with broad implications for clinical translation. PAPERFLICK:

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.cell.2014.11.048
PMCID: PMC4297538
PMID: 25542313 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors claim no conflicts of interest.


311. MMW Fortschr Med. 2014 Nov 20;156(20):68-9. doi: 10.1007/s15006-014-3737-8.

[Smoking cessation improves quality of life].

[Article in German]

Hering T.

DOI: 10.1007/s15006-014-3737-8
PMID: 25543377 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


312. Expert Rev Pharmacoecon Outcomes Res. 2015 Apr;15(2):223-8. doi: 
10.1586/14737167.2015.995170. Epub 2014 Dec 29.

Incorporating sign-dependence in health-related social welfare functions.

Attema AE(1).

Author information:
(1)iBMG, Erasmus University, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

It is important to measure people's preferences regarding the trade-off between 
efficiency and equity in health to make public decisions that are in a society's 
best interests. This article demonstrates the usefulness of social welfare 
functions to obtain these measurements. Insights from individual decision 
making, in particular, prospect theory, turn out to be helpful to estimate 
societal preferences more accurately. The author shows how one can disentangle 
the effects of loss aversion in this estimation. The presented approach also 
allows for sign-dependent societal utility and equity weighting functions. 
Recent empirical studies that used this approach with choices concerning quality 
of life of other people reported the presence of substantial inequity aversion 
both for gains and for losses, as well as loss aversion. Several examples 
demonstrate the relevance of these insights for preference elicitations and 
health economic evaluations.

DOI: 10.1586/14737167.2015.995170
PMID: 25543906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


313. Cardiovasc Hematol Agents Med Chem. 2015;13(1):14-20. doi: 
10.2174/1871525713666141219112841.

New Anti-Anginal Drugs: Ranolazine.

Cavallino C, Facchini M, Veia A, Bacchni S, Rosso R, Rognoni A(1), Rametta F, 
Lupi A, Bongo AS.

Author information:
(1)Catheterization Laboratory, Maggiore della Carità Hospital, Corso Mazzini 18, 
28100 Novara, Italy. arognoni@hotmail.com.

Chronic angina represents a condition that impairs quality of life and is 
associated with decreased life expectancy in the industrialized countries. 
Current therapies that reduce angina frequency include old drugs such as 
nitrates, β -blockers and calcium antagonists. Several new investigational drugs 
are being tested for the treatment of chronic angina. This review will focus on 
ranolazine, a drug approved by the US Food and Drug Administration (FDA) in 2006 
for patients with chronic angina who continue to be symptomatic despite 
optimized therapies. The main molecular mechanism underlying ranolazine-mediated 
beneficial effects has been identified as inhibition of the late Na+ current 
during the action potential, which potentially improves oxygen consumption, 
diastolic dysfunction and coronary blood flow. The aim of this review is to 
update the evidence for ranolazine treatment in chronic angina and discuss its 
therapeutic perspectives based on the most recent clinical and experimental 
studies.

DOI: 10.2174/1871525713666141219112841
PMID: 25544118 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


314. J Geriatr Oncol. 2015 Mar;6(2):93-100. doi: 10.1016/j.jgo.2014.12.001. Epub
2014  Dec 17.

Decision-making and cancer screening: a qualitative study of older adults with 
multiple chronic conditions.

Gross CP(1), Fried TR(2), Tinetti ME(3), Ross JS(4), Genao I(5), Hossain S(6), 
Wolf E(7), Lewis CL(8).

Author information:
(1)Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, 
Yale Cancer Center, USA; Sections of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, USA. 
Electronic address: cary.gross@yale.edu.
(2)Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, 
Yale Cancer Center, USA; Sections of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, USA. 
Electronic address: terri.fried@yale.edu.
(3)Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, 
Yale Cancer Center, USA; Sections of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, USA. 
Electronic address: mary.tinetti@yale.edu.
(4)Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, 
Yale Cancer Center, USA; Sections of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, USA. 
Electronic address: joseph.ross@yale.edu.
(5)Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, 
Yale Cancer Center, USA; Sections of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, USA. 
Electronic address: inginia.genao@yale.edu.
(6)Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, 
Yale Cancer Center, USA; Sections of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, USA. 
Electronic address: sabinahossainyale@gmail.com.
(7)Cancer Outcomes, Public Policy, and Effectiveness Research (COPPER) Center, 
Yale Cancer Center, USA; Sections of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, 
Department of Internal Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, USA. 
Electronic address: elizabeth.a.wolf@gmail.com.
(8)Sections of General Internal Medicine and Geriatrics, Department of Internal 
Medicine, Yale University School of Medicine, USA; Division of General Medicine, 
University of Colorado School of Medicine, USA. Electronic address: 
Carmen.L.Lewis@undenver.edu.

OBJECTIVE: To understand how older persons with multiple chronic conditions 
(MCC) approach decisions about cancer screening.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We conducted interviews with adults >65 years old with at 
least two chronic conditions who were taking ≥five medications daily. Patients 
were first asked how age and multimorbidity influence their cancer screening 
decisions. After showing them an educational prompt that explained the 
relationship between life expectancy and the benefits of cancer screening, 
respondents were then asked about screening in the context of specific health 
scenarios. Using grounded theory, three independent readers coded responses for 
salient themes. Sample size was determined by thematic saturation.
RESULTS: Most respondents (26 of 28) initially indicated that their overall 
health or medical conditions do not influence their cancer screening decisions. 
After viewing the educational prompt, respondents described two broad approaches 
to cancer screening in the setting of increasing age or multi-morbidity. The 
first was a "benefits versus harms" approach in which participants weighed 
direct health benefits (e.g. reducing cancer incidence or mortality) and harms 
(e.g. complications or inconvenience). The second was a heuristic approach. Some 
heuristics favored screening, such as a persistent belief in unspecified 
benefits from screening, value of knowledge about cancer status, and not wanting 
to "give up", whereas other heuristics discouraged screening, such as fatalism 
or a reluctance to learn about their cancer status.
CONCLUSIONS: When considering cancer screening, some older persons with MCC 
employ heuristics which circumvent the traditional quantitative comparison of 
risks and benefits, providing an important challenge to informed decision 
making.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jgo.2014.12.001
PMID: 25544380 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


315. Blood Transfus. 2015 Jul;13(3):351-3. doi: 10.2450/2014.0279-14. Epub 2014
Dec  17.

More or less living according to your blood type.

Pasalic L(1)(2), Favaloro EJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Haematology, Institute of Clinical Pathology and Medical 
Research, Pathology West, Westmead Hospital, Westmead, Australia.
(2)Prince of Wales Clinical School, Faculty of Medicine, University of New South 
Wales, Sydney, Australia.

Comment on
    Blood Transfus. 2015 Apr;13(2):313-7.

DOI: 10.2450/2014.0279-14
PMCID: PMC4614285
PMID: 25545871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


316. BJOG. 2015 Jan;122(2):228-36. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.13198.

Surgically avertable burden of obstetric conditions in low- and middle-income 
regions: a modelled analysis.

Higashi H(1), Barendregt JJ, Kassebaum NJ, Weiser TG, Bickler SW, Vos T.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Health Metrics and Evaluation, University of Washington, 
Seattle, WA, USA; School of Population Health, University of Queensland, 
Brisbane, Qld, Australia.

Comment in
    BJOG. 2015 Jan;122(2):237.

OBJECTIVE: To quantify the burden of maternal and neonatal conditions in low- 
and middle-income countries (LMICs) that could be averted by full access to 
quality first-level obstetric surgical procedures.
DESIGN: Burden of disease and epidemiological modelling.
SETTING: LMICs from all global regions.
POPULATION: The entire population in 2010.
METHODS: We included five conditions in our analysis: maternal haemorrhage; 
obstructed labour; obstetric fistula; abortion(1) ; and neonatal encephalopathy. 
Demographic and epidemiological data were obtained from the Global Burden of 
Disease 2010 study. We split the disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) of these 
conditions into surgically 'avertable' and 'non-avertable' burdens. We applied 
the lowest age-specific fatality rates from all global regions to each LMIC 
region to estimate the avertable deaths, assuming that the differences of death 
rates between each region and the lowest rates reflect the gap in surgical care.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Deaths and DALYs avertable.
RESULTS: Of the estimated 56.6 million DALYs (i.e. 56.6 million years of healthy 
life lost) of the selected five conditions, 21.1 million DALYs (37%) are 
avertable by full coverage of quality obstetric surgery in LMICs. The avertable 
burden in absolute term is substantial given the size of burden of these 
conditions in LMICs. Neonatal encephalopathy constitutes the largest portion of 
avertable burden (16.2 million DALYs) among the five conditions, followed by 
abortion (2.1 million DALYs).
CONCLUSIONS: Improving access to quality surgical care at first-level hospitals 
could reduce a tremendous burden of maternal and neonatal conditions in LMICs.

© 2014 Royal College of Obstetricians and Gynaecologists.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.13198
PMID: 25546047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


317. BJOG. 2015 Jan;122(2):237. doi: 10.1111/1471-0528.13215.

Is the enabling environment ready to address the surgically avertable burden of 
obstetric conditions in low- and middle-income regions?

McCaw-Binns A(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Community Health and Psychiatry, University of the West Indies, 
Mona, Jamaica.

Comment on
    BJOG. 2015 Jan;122(2):228-36.

DOI: 10.1111/1471-0528.13215
PMID: 25546048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


318. Mod Rheumatol. 2015 Jul;25(4):503-13. doi: 10.3109/14397595.2014.1001475.
Epub  2015 Feb 11.

Cost-effectiveness of tocilizumab, a humanized anti-interleukin-6 receptor 
monoclonal antibody, versus methotrexate in patients with rheumatoid arthritis 
using real-world data from the IORRA observational cohort study.

Tanaka E(1), Inoue E, Hoshi D, Shimizu Y, Kobayashi A, Sugimoto N, Shidara K, 
Sato E, Seto Y, Nakajima A, Momohara S, Taniguchi A, Yamanaka H.

Author information:
(1)Institute of Rheumatology, Tokyo Women's Medical University , Tokyo , Japan.

OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of tocilizumab in patients with 
rheumatoid arthritis (RA) in a real-world setting in Japan.
METHODS: The cost-effectiveness was determined using a Markov model-based 
probabilistic simulation. Data from RA patients registered in the Institute of 
Rheumatology, Rheumatoid Arthritis (IORRA) cohort study between April 2007 and 
April 2011 were extracted using a pair-matching method: tocilizumab group (n = 
104), patients who used at least 1 disease-modifying anti- rheumatic drug and in 
whom tocilizumab treatment was initiated; methotrexate group (n = 104), patients 
in whom methotrexate treatment was initiated for the first time or after an 
interruption of 6 or more months. Assuming a 6-month cycle length, health 
benefits and costs were measured over a lifetime and discounted at an annual 
rate of 3%.
RESULTS: Compared with methotrexate treatment, lifetime costs and 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) for tocilizumab treatment were approximately 
1.5- and 1.3-times higher, respectively. Incremental cost per QALY gained with 
tocilizumab was $49,359, which was below the assumed cost-effectiveness 
threshold of $50,000 per QALY. The probability of tocilizumab being cost- 
effective was 62.2%.
CONCLUSION: The simulation model using real-world data from Japan showed that 
tocilizumab (at a certain price) may improve treatment cost-effectiveness in 
patients with moderate-to-severe RA by enhancing quality-adjusted life 
expectancy.

DOI: 10.3109/14397595.2014.1001475
PMID: 25547018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


319. Psychother Psychosom. 2015;84(1):6-21. doi: 10.1159/000365150. Epub 2014 Dec
24.

Cost-utility analyses of cognitive-behavioural therapy of depression: a 
systematic review.

Brettschneider C(1), Djadran H, Härter M, Löwe B, Riedel-Heller S, König HH.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics and Health Services Research, Hamburg Center 
for Health Economics, University Medical Center Hamburg-Eppendorf, Hamburg, 
Germany.

BACKGROUND: Major depressive disorder (MDD) causes a massive disease burden 
worldwide. Cognitive behavioural therapy (CBT) is an important treatment 
approach for depression. Cost-utility analysis (CUA) is a method to support 
decisions on efficient allocation of resources in health policy. The objective 
of our study was to systematically review CUA of CBT in the treatment of 
patients suffering from MDD.
METHODS: We conducted a systematic literature search in Medline, Embase, 
PsycINFO and National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database (NHS EED) to 
identify CUA of CBT for MDD. Cost data were inflated to the year 2011 and 
converted into USD using purchasing power parities (USD PPP) to ensure 
comparability of the data. Quality assessment of CUA was performed.
RESULTS: Twenty-two studies were included in this systematic review. No study 
employed a time horizon of more than 5 years. In most studies, individual and 
group CBT as well as CBT for maintenance showed acceptable incremental 
cost-utility ratios (<50,000 USD PPP/quality-adjusted life year). The CUA 
results of CBT for children and adolescents and of computerized CBT were 
inconsistent.
DISCUSSION: We found consistent evidence that individualized CBT is 
cost-effective from the perspective of a third-party payer for short-term 
treatment and for relapse prevention of MDD in the adult population.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000365150
PMID: 25547334 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


320. World J Gastroenterol. 2014 Dec 21;20(47):17976-84. doi: 
10.3748/wjg.v20.i47.17976.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of colon cancer treatments from MOSIAC and No. 16968 
trials.

Wen F(1), Yao K(1), Du ZD(1), He XF(1), Zhang PF(1), Tang RL(1), Li Q(1).

Author information:
(1)Feng Wen, Peng-Fei Zhang, Rui-Lei Tang, Qiu Li, Department of Medical 
Oncology, Cancer Center, State Key Laboratory of Biotherapy, West China 
Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu 610041, Sichuan Province, China.

AIM: To compare XELOX and FOLFOX4 as colon cancer adjuvant chemotherapy based on 
MOSAIC and No. 16968 trails from Chinese cost-effectiveness perspective.
METHODS: A decision-analytic Markov model was developed to compare the FOLFOX4 
and XELOX regimens based MOSAIC and No. 16968 trial. Five states were included 
in our Markov model: well (state 1), minor toxicity (state 2), major toxicity 
(state 3), quitting adjuvant chemotherapy (state 4), and death due to adjuvant 
chemotherapy (state 5). Transitions among the 5 states were assumed to be 
Markovian. Costs were calculated from the perspective of the Chinese health-care 
payer. The utility data were taken from published studies. Sensitivity analyses 
were used to explore the impact of uncertainty factors in this 
cost-effectiveness analysis.
RESULTS: Total direct costs of FOLFOX4 and XELOX per patient were $19884.96 ± 
4280.30 and $18113.25 ± 3122.20, respectively. The total fees related to adverse 
events per patient during the entire treatment were $204.75 ± 16.80 for the 
XELOX group, and $873.72 ± 27.60 for the FOLFOX4 group, and the costs for travel 
and absenteeism per patient were $18495.00 for the XELOX group and $21,352.68 
for the FOLFOX4 group. The base-case analysis showed that FOLFOX4 was estimated 
to produce an additional 0.06 in quality adjusted life years (QALYs) at an 
additional cost of $3950.47 when compared to the XELOX regimen over the model 
time horizon. The cost per QALY gained was $8047.30 in the XELOX group, which 
was $900.98 less than in the FOLFOX4 group ($8948.28). The one way sensitivity 
analysis demonstrated that the utility for the well state and minor toxicity 
state greatly influenced the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of FOLFOX4.
CONCLUSION: In term of cost-comparison, XELOX is expected to dominate FOLFOX4 
regimes; Therefore, XELOX provides a more cost-effective adjuvant chemotherapy 
for colon cancer patients in China.

DOI: 10.3748/wjg.v20.i47.17976
PMCID: PMC4273149
PMID: 25548497 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


321. NCHS Data Brief. 2014 Dec;(178):1-8.

Mortality in the United States, 2013.

Kochanek KD, Murphy SL, Xu J, Arias E.

This report presents 2013 U.S. final mortality data on deaths and death rates by 
demographic and medical characteristics. These data provide information on 
mortality patterns among U.S. residents by such variables as sex, race and 
ethnicity, and cause of death. Information on mortality patterns is key to 
understanding changes in the health and well-being of the U.S. population (1). 
Life expectancy estimates, age-adjusted death rates by race and ethnicity and 
sex, 10 leading causes of death, and 10 leading causes of infant death were 
analyzed by comparing 2013 final data with 2012 final data. In 2013, a total of 
2,596,993 resident deaths were registered in the United States.

All material appearing in this report is in the public domain and may be 
reproduced or copied without permission; citation as to source, however, is 
appreciated.

PMID: 25549183 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


322. Sci Total Environ. 2015 Apr 1;511:268-87. doi:
10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.11.048.  Epub 2014 Dec 27.

Disability adjusted life year (DALY): a useful tool for quantitative assessment 
of environmental pollution.

Gao T(1), Wang XC(2), Chen R(1), Ngo HH(3), Guo W(4).

Author information:
(1)Key Lab of Northwest Water Resources, Environment and Ecology, Ministry of 
Education, Xi'an University of Architecture and Technology, Xi'an 710055, China.
(2)Key Lab of Northwest Water Resources, Environment and Ecology, Ministry of 
Education, Xi'an University of Architecture and Technology, Xi'an 710055, China. 
