
Author information:
(1)Center for Joint Preservation and Replacement, Rubin Institute for Advanced 
Orthopedics, Sinai Hospital of Baltimore, Baltimore, Maryland.

Pneumatic unloader bracing with extension assists have been proposed as a 
non-operative modality that may delay the need for knee surgery by reducing pain 
and improving function. This prospective, randomized trial evaluated 52 patients 
who had knee osteoarthritis for changes in: (1) muscle strength; (2) objective 
functional improvements; (3); subjective functional improvements; (4) pain; (5) 
quality of life; and (6) conversion to total knee arthroplasty (TKA) compared to 
standard of care. Patient outcomes were evaluated at a minimum 3 months. Braced 
patient's demonstrated significant improvements in muscle strength, several 
functional tests, and patient reported outcomes when compared to the matched 
cohort. These results are encouraging and suggest that this device may represent 
a promising alternative to standard treatment methods for knee osteoarthritis.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2014.11.036
PMID: 25499679 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


208. Adv Drug Deliv Rev. 2015 Apr;84:257-77. doi: 10.1016/j.addr.2014.11.022.
Epub  2014 Dec 10.

The past, present and future in scaffold-based tendon treatments.

Lomas AJ(1), Ryan CN(1), Sorushanova A(1), Shologu N(1), Sideri AI(2), Tsioli 
V(2), Fthenakis GC(2), Tzora A(3), Skoufos I(3), Quinlan LR(4), O'Laighin G(5), 
Mullen AM(6), Kelly JL(7), Kearns S(8), Biggs M(1), Pandit A(1), Zeugolis DI(9).

Author information:
(1)Network of Excellence for Functional Biomaterials (NFB), Biosciences Research 
Building, National University of Ireland Galway (NUI Galway), Galway, Ireland.
(2)Veterinary Faculty, University of Thessaly, Karditsa, Greece.
(3)Animal Production Division, Department of Agriculture Technology, TEI of 
Epirus, Arta, Greece.
(4)Department of Physiology, NUI Galway, Ireland.
(5)College of Engineering and Informatics, NUI Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(6)Teagasc Research Centre, Ashtown, Ireland.
(7)Network of Excellence for Functional Biomaterials (NFB), Biosciences Research 
Building, National University of Ireland Galway (NUI Galway), Galway, Ireland; 
Department of Surgery, NUI Galway, Galway, Ireland.
(8)Network of Excellence for Functional Biomaterials (NFB), Biosciences Research 
Building, National University of Ireland Galway (NUI Galway), Galway, Ireland; 
University College Hospitals Galway (UCHG), Galway, Ireland.
(9)Network of Excellence for Functional Biomaterials (NFB), Biosciences Research 
Building, National University of Ireland Galway (NUI Galway), Galway, Ireland. 
Electronic address: dimitrios.zeugolis@nuigalway.ie.

Tendon injuries represent a significant clinical burden on healthcare systems 
worldwide. As the human population ages and the life expectancy increases, 
tendon injuries will become more prevalent, especially among young individuals 
with long life ahead of them. Advancements in engineering, chemistry and biology 
have made available an array of three-dimensional scaffold-based intervention 
strategies, natural or synthetic in origin. Further, functionalisation 
strategies, based on biophysical, biochemical and biological cues, offer control 
over cellular functions; localisation and sustained release of 
therapeutics/biologics; and the ability to positively interact with the host to 
promote repair and regeneration. Herein, we critically discuss current therapies 
and emerging technologies that aim to transform tendon treatments in the years 
to come.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addr.2014.11.022
PMID: 25499820 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


209. Epidemiol Infect. 2015 Jul;143(9):1791-802. doi: 10.1017/S0950268814001940.
Epub  2014 Dec 12.

Use of DALYs in economic analyses on interventions for infectious diseases: a 
systematic review.

Oostvogels AJ(1), De Wit GA(1), Jahn B(2), Cassini A(3), Colzani E(3), De Waure 
C(4), Kretzschmar ME(1), Siebert U(2), Mühlberger N(2), Mangen MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)University Medical Centre Utrecht (UMCU),Utrecht,The Netherlands.
(2)Institute of Public Health, Medical Decision Making and Health Technology 
Assessment,Department of Public Health and Health Technology Assessment,UMIT - 
University for Health Sciences,Medical Informatics and Technology,Hall 
i.T.,Austria.
(3)European Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC),Stockholm,Sweden.
(4)Institute of Public Health, Catholic University of the Sacred 
Heart,Rome,Italy.

A systematic literature review was performed on full economic evaluations of 
infectious disease interventions using disability-adjusted life years (DALY) as 
outcome measure. The search was limited to the period between 1994 and September 
2011 and conducted in Medline, SciSearch and EMBASE databases. We included 154 
studies, mostly targeting HIV/AIDS and malaria with most conducted for African 
countries (40%) and <10% in high-income countries. Third-payer perspective was 
applied in 29% of the studies, 25% used the societal perspective and 12% used 
both. Only 16% of the studies took indirect effects (i.e. herd immunity) of 
interventions into account. Intervention, direct healthcare and indirect 
non-healthcare costs were taken into account in respectively 100%, 81% and 36% 
of the studies. The majority of the studies followed the Global Burden of 
Disease method for DALY estimations, but most studies deviated from WHO 
cost-effectiveness guidelines. Better adherence to freely accessible guidelines 
will improve generalizability between full economic evaluations.

DOI: 10.1017/S0950268814001940
PMCID: PMC4456769
PMID: 25499823 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: E.C. and A.C. are employed by the European 
Centre for Disease Prevention and Control (ECDC), the institution funding this 
research.


210. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2016 Apr;33(3):281-5. doi: 10.1177/1049909114563065.
 Epub 2014 Dec 14.

Random Serum Cortisol as a Predictor for Survival of Terminally Ill Patients 
With Cancer: A Preliminary Study.

Kim HM(1), Ha KS(2), Hwang IC(3), Ahn HY(4), Youn CH(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family Medicine, Kyungpook National University Medical Center, 
Daegu, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, Incheon, 
Republic of Korea.
(3)Department of Family Medicine, Gachon University Gil Medical Center, Incheon, 
Republic of Korea spfe0211@gmail.com.
(4)Department of Statistics, Dongguk University, Seoul, Republic of Korea.
(5)Department of Family Medicine, Kyungpook National University School of 
Medicine, Daegu, Republic of Korea.

Although previous research found that serum cortisol levels were associated with 
cancer prognosis, it is unclear whether this association remains robust even at 
the very end of life of patients with cancer. We conducted a retrospective chart 
review of 125 patients with terminal cancer to investigate the role of random 
serum cortisol levels in predicting the remaining life expectancy. The high 
random cortisol group had a significantly shorter survival time than the low 
random cortisol group (7.5 vs 26 days). After adjusting for potential 
confounders, key factors such as poor performance status, hypoalbuminemia, and 
high random cortisol level are associated with poor survival. Our results 
suggest that the random serum cortisol level is an independent predictor of 
survival time of patients with terminally ill cancer.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909114563065
PMID: 25500431 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


211. Nihon Koshu Eisei Zasshi. 2014;61(11):679-85.

[Prediction of future cost savings in long-term care and medical care if Japan 
achieves the health expectancy target of Health Japan 21 (second term)].

[Article in Japanese]

Tomata Y(1), Tsuji I, Sugiyama K, Hashimoto S, Kawado M, Yamada H, Seko R, 
Murakami Y, Hayakawa T, Hayashi M, Kato M, Noda T, Ojima T.

Author information:
(1)Division of Epidemiology, Department of Public Health and Forensic Medicine, 
Tohoku University Graduate School of Medicine.

OBJECTIVES: An earlier study using the data from the Japanese Long-term Care 
Insurance (LTCI) system reported a scenario for achieving the target of Health 
Japan 21 (the second term): future gains in health expectancy from 2011 to 2020 
must be larger than gains in expectancy. According to this scenario (the Healthy 
Life Expectancy Extension Scenario), the proportion of disability (cases≥Care 
Level 2 in LTCI disability certification) will gradually decrease by 1% per year 
from 2011. The purpose of this study was to estimate the cost savings in 
long-term care and medical care if the Healthy Life Expectancy Extension 
Scenario is achieved.
METHODS: We used data from Japanese national statistics and a survey conducted 
in Osaki city, Miyagi. The natural course of disability cases (≥Care Level 2) 
was estimated under the assumption that the future population composition would 
be equal to the population projections for Japan and the future proportion of 
disabilities for each age grade would be equal to that of 2010. Then, the 
decrease in the number of disabilities based on the Healthy Life Expectancy 
Extension Scenario was calculated. Finally, the cost savings in long-term care 
and medical care associated with the assumed decrease in the number of 
disability cases was calculated.
RESULTS: When the disability cases (≥Care Level 2) were shifted to "no 
disability certification (not requiring care)," a total estimated cost reduction 
of 5,291 billion yen was achieved from 2011 to 2020. Furthermore, a total 
estimated reduction of 2,491 billion yen was achieved for the same period when 
all disability shifts to "Care Level 1" were accounted for.
CONCLUSION: As a rough calculation, if the Health Japan 21 (second term) target 
is achieved, approximately 2,500-5,300 billion yen will be saved in the cost of 
long-term care and medical care.

PMID: 25501586 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


212. South Med J. 2014 Dec;107(12):780-7. doi: 10.14423/SMJ.0000000000000198.

Can α-lipoic acid mitigate progression of aging-related decline caused by 
oxidative stress?

Patel MK(1), Riley MA(1), Hobbs S(1), Cortez-Cooper M(1), Robinson VJ(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Medical College of Georgia at Georgia Regents University, and 
Georgia Regents University, Augusta.

Aging is progressively deteriorating physiological function that leads to 
increasing risks of illness and death. Increases in life expectancy and the 
aging of a large segment of the population have made age-related disability and 
morbidity increasingly important issues. Supplements such as α-lipoic acid may 
have antiaging effects by positively affecting oxidative stress, cognitive 
function, and cardiovascular function.

DOI: 10.14423/SMJ.0000000000000198
PMID: 25502159 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


213. Nephron Clin Pract. 2014;128(3-4):319-22. doi: 10.1159/000362458. Epub 2014
Dec  9.

Chronic kidney disease and the ageing population.

Tonelli M(1), Riella M.

Author information:
(1)University of Alberta, Edmonton, Alta., Canada.

Due to improvements in socioeconomic development and increased life expectancy, 
the proportion of older people in the general population is increasing 
worldwide. While this trend is something to celebrate, it also brings with it 
challenges for health care systems. One particular challenge is an increase in 
chronic kidney disease, the prevalence of which is higher in older people. This 
article reviews the key links between kidney function, age, health and illness, 
and discusses the implications of the ageing population for the care of people 
with chronic kidney disease.

© 2014 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000362458
PMID: 25502337 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


214. Biogerontology. 2015 Feb;16(1):125-9. doi: 10.1007/s10522-014-9544-x. Epub
2014  Dec 12.

Longevity and aging: role of genes and of the extracellular matrix.

Robert L(1), Labat-Robert J.

Author information:
(1)Faculté de médecine Paris Descartes, université Sorbonne Paris Cité, 15, rue 
de l'ecole de medecine, 75006, Paris, France, lrobert5@orange.fr.

Longevity is different for every animal species as well as their genome, 
suggesting a correlation between genes and life-span. Estimates put the genetic 
effect from 5 to 35% approximately, suggesting that even genetic effects are 
dependent on environmental conditions. This contention is largely confirmed by 
the study of identical twins raised apart. They do not die at the same age and 
also for different reasons. Aging is not "genetically programmed", it is outside 
evolutionary constraint. Evolution favors early and efficient reproduction, but 
does not care for longevity. A number of mechanisms were shown to be involved in 
the age-dependent decline of vital functions, among them the Maillard reaction 
(non-enzymatic glycosylation) and the age-dependent upregulation of proteolytic 
activity. Aging of ECM is a complex process, comprising progressive modification 
of its macromolecular components and of cell-matrix interactions. An important 
process is the uncoupling with age of the elastin-receptor from its "young" 
transmission pathway loosing all physiological effects, but enhancing free 
radical and elastase release. These processes contribute to age-related ECM 
degradation, production of matrikins (ECM degradation products with biological 
activity) aggravating functional loss with age. Both genetic and post-genetic 
mechanisms are susceptible to be influenced by medical, pharmacological and 
dietary interventions. Among the genetic mechanisms, those attributed to 
Sirtuins (7 orthologs identified in the human genome) are especially important. 
Among the environmental effects, nutrition, hygiene and weather conditions play 
a role. These data justify some predictions on the evolution of life expectancy 
taking in account also socio-economic factors. Biological constraints become 
evident by the comparison of centenarians and supercentenarians (less than 1% of 
the centenarians) putting an upper limit to the attainable human lifespan.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-014-9544-x
PMID: 25502365 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


215. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 12;9(12):e115495. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115495. 
eCollection 2014.

Mutual stabilization of rhythmic vocalization and whole-body movement.

Miyata K(1), Kudo K(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, The 
University of Tokyo, Tokyo, Japan.

The current study investigated the rhythmic coordination between vocalization 
and whole-body movement. Previous studies have reported that spatiotemporal 
stability in rhythmic movement increases when coordinated with a rhythmic 
auditory stimulus or other effector in a stable coordination pattern. Therefore, 
the present study conducted two experiments to investigate (1) whether there is 
a stable coordination pattern between vocalization and whole-body movement and 
(2) whether a stable coordination pattern reduces variability in whole-body 
movement and vocalization. In Experiment 1, two coordination patterns between 
vocalizations and whole-body movement (hip, knee, and ankle joint 
flexion-on-the-voice vs. joint extension-on-the-voice) in a standing posture 
were explored at movement frequencies of 80, 130, and 180 beats per minute. At 
higher movement frequencies, the phase angle in the extension-on-the-voice 
condition deviated from the intended phase angle. However, the angle of the 
flexion-on-the-voice was maintained even when movement frequency increased. 
These results suggest that there was a stable coordination pattern in the 
flexion-on-the-voice condition. In Experiment 2, variability in whole-body 
movement and voice-onset intervals was compared between two conditions: one 
related to tasks performed in the flexion-on-the-voice coordination 
(coordination condition) that was a stable coordination pattern, and the other 
related to tasks performed independently (control condition). The results showed 
that variability in whole-body movement and voice-onset intervals was smaller in 
the coordination condition than in the control condition. Overall, the present 
study revealed mutual stabilization between rhythmic vocalization and whole-body 
movement via coordination within a stable pattern, suggesting that coupled 
action systems can act as a single functional unit or coordinative structure.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0115495
PMCID: PMC4264888
PMID: 25502730 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


216. J Dent Res. 2015 Feb;94(2):272-80. doi: 10.1177/0022034514561260. Epub 2014
Dec  10.

Detecting and treating occlusal caries lesions: a cost-effectiveness analysis.

Schwendicke F(1), Stolpe M(2), Meyer-Lueckel H(3), Paris S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Operative and Preventive Dentistry, Charité-Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany falk.schwendicke@charite.de.
(2)Kiel Institute for the World Economy, Kiel, Germany.
(3)Department of Operative Dentistry, Periodontology and Preventive Dentistry, 
RWTH Aachen University, Aachen, Germany.
(4)Department of Operative and Preventive Dentistry, Charité-Universitätsmedizin 
Berlin, Berlin, Germany.

The health gains and costs resulting from using different caries detection 
strategies might not only depend on the accuracy of the used method but also the 
treatment emanating from its use in different populations. We compared 
combinations of visual-tactile, radiographic, or laser-fluorescence-based 
detection methods with 1 of 3 treatments (non-, micro-, and invasive treatment) 
initiated at different cutoffs (treating all or only dentinal lesions) in 
populations with low or high caries prevalence. A Markov model was constructed 
to follow an occlusal surface in a permanent molar in an initially 12-y-old male 
German patient over his lifetime. Prevalence data and transition probabilities 
were extracted from the literature, while validity parameters of different 
methods were synthesized or obtained from systematic reviews. Microsimulations 
were performed to analyze the model, assuming a German health care setting and a 
mixed public-private payer perspective. Radiographic and fluorescence-based 
methods led to more overtreatments, especially in populations with low 
prevalence. For the latter, combining visual-tactile or radiographic detection 
with microinvasive treatment retained teeth longest (mean 66 y) at lowest costs 
(329 and 332 Euro, respectively), while combining radiographic or 
fluorescence-based detections with invasive treatment was the least 
cost-effective (<60 y, >700 Euro). In populations with high prevalence, 
combining radiographic detection with microinvasive treatment was most 
cost-effective (63 y, 528 Euro), while sensitive detection methods combined with 
invasive treatments were again the least cost-effective (<59 y, >690 Euro). The 
suitability of detection methods differed significantly between populations, and 
the cost-effectiveness was greatly influenced by the treatment initiated after 
lesion detection. The accuracy of a detection method relative to a "gold 
standard" did not automatically convey into better health or reduced costs. 
Detection methods should be evaluated not only against their criterion validity 
but also the long-term effects resulting from their use in different 
populations.

© International & American Associations for Dental Research 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0022034514561260
PMCID: PMC4438735
PMID: 25503613 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no potential conflicts of 
interest with respect to the authorship and/or publication of this article.


217. Zoo Biol. 2015 Mar-Apr;34(2):139-52. doi: 10.1002/zoo.21195. Epub 2014 Dec
11.

Life expectancy and longevity of varanid lizards (Reptilia:Squamata:Varanidae) 
in North American zoos.

Mendyk RW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Herpetology, Smithsonian National Zoological Park, Washington, 
District of Columbia; Department of Herpetology, Jacksonville Zoo and Gardens, 
Jacksonville, Florida.

In zoos, life expectancy-the average lifespan of individuals within a 
population, and longevity-the maximum lifespan within a population, can be 
useful parameters for evaluating captive husbandry and animal welfare. Using 
life history and demographic data derived from regional studbooks, this study 
examined life expectancy and longevity in a total of 782 wild-caught (WC) and 
captive-bred (CB) varanid lizards of seven species maintained in North American 
zoos since 1926. The average lifespans for WC and CB animals were 6.3 ± 0.3 and 
9.3 ± 0.4 years, respectively, with CB males living significantly longer than 
females (P = 0.009). A total of 26.4% of WC and 22.5% of CB animals experienced 
mortality during their first 2 years in captivity, with mortality during this 
period greatest among Varanus rudicollis and V. prasinus. A positive correlation 
was observed between life expectancy and adult body mass in captive-bred 
individuals (r = 0.981; P = 0.002). Wild-caught females with a history of 
successful reproduction had a significantly greater average lifespan than 
non-reproducing females (P < 0.0001). Results from this study suggest that 
varanids have not been reaching their lifespan capacities in North American 
zoos. In light of these findings, several husbandry-related factors which may be 
affecting the welfare and lifespans of varanids in zoos are identified and 
discussed. This study also highlights the utility of demographic and life 
history data in captive animal management, and offers a general framework for 
future herpetological studies of a similar nature.

© 2014 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/zoo.21195
PMID: 25503984 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


218. Biomedica. 2014 Oct-Dec;34(4):574-9. doi: 10.1590/S0120-41572014000400010.

[Hearing disorders in elderly people, associated factors and quality of life: 
SABE Study, Bogotá, Colombia].

[Article in Spanish]

Cano CA(1), Borda MG(2), Arciniegas AJ(2), Parra JS(2).

Author information:
(1)Intellectus, Hospital Universitario San Ignacio, Bogotá, D.C, Colombia.
(2)Instituto de Envejecimiento, Pontificia Universidad Javeriana, Bogotá, D.C, 
Colombia.

INTRODUCTION: The aging of the population is a universal epidemiological 
phenomenon which is not unfamiliar to us and is accompanied by a marked increase 
of life expectancy. Age-dependent comorbidities, such as hearing disorders, are 
more prevalent and affect the quality of life in a noticeable manner.
OBJECTIVE: To estimate the prevalence of hearing disorders, of the associated 
factors and their impact on the quality of life of older adults in Bogota.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data was taken from the Bogotá SABE Study, which included 
2,000 individuals aged =60 years in a probabilistic cross-sectional study 
sampled by clusters (with 81.9% coverage). We used the "hearing disorders" 
variable relating it to socio-demographic variables, as well as to the use of 
hearing aids, the self-perceived health, the comorbidities, the functionality, 
the cognition and the quality of life as measured with the Visual Analog Scale 
of the EuroQol Group (EQ-VAS).
RESULTS: We found a prevalence of hearing disorders in 267 individuals (13.5%), 
of whom 15% used hearing aids. The frequency was higher in individuals aged =75 
years (46.1%), in the low socioeconomic level (20.2%) and among illiterate 
people (19.3%, p<0.05). Regarding comorbidities, we found a higher prevalence in 
individuals suffering from depression (20.2%, p<0.001), and high blood pressure 
(15%, p<0.01). The quality of life was worse in individuals with hearing 
disorders, as measured with the EuroQol EQ-VAS (60.93 ± 1.38 vs. 71.75 ± 0.45, 
p< 0.0001), but it improved among those who used hearing aids as compared to 
those who did not use them (59.59 ± 1.52, p<0.01).
CONCLUSIONS: Hearing disorders are relevant in elderly individuals and they 
affect their perceived quality of life in a noticeable manner. In addition, they 
are associated with other clinical, functional and cognitive problems. 
Nevertheless, the intervention with hearing aids reverses that perception.

DOI: 10.1590/S0120-41572014000400010
PMID: 25504246 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


219. Eur J Public Health. 2015 Aug;25(4):706-10. doi: 10.1093/eurpub/cku211. Epub
 2014 Dec 10.

The impact of smoking on gender differences in life expectancy: more 
heterogeneous than often stated.

Luy M(1), Wegner-Siegmundt C(2).

Author information:
(1)Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (IIASA, VID/ÖAW, 
WU), Vienna Institute of Demography/Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, 
Austria mail@marcluy.eu.
(2)Wittgenstein Centre for Demography and Global Human Capital (IIASA, VID/ÖAW, 
WU), Vienna Institute of Demography/Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, 
Austria.

BACKGROUND: Throughout industrialized countries, tobacco consumption is seen as 
the predominant driver of both the trend and the extent of gender differences in 
life expectancy. However, several factors raise doubts to this generalization. 
We hypothesize that the impact of smoking on the gender gap is context-specific 
and differs between populations.
METHODS: We decompose the gender differences in life expectancy into fractions 
caused by smoking and other non-biological factors for 53 industrialized 
countries and the period 1955-2009 to assess the significance of smoking among 
the causes that can be influenced by direct or indirect interference.
RESULTS: The trend of the gender gap can indeed be attributed to smoking in most 
populations of the western world. However, with regard to the overall extent of 
male excess mortality, smoking is the main driver only in the minority of the 
studied populations. While the impact of smoking to gender differences in life 
expectancy declines in all populations, the contribution of other non-biological 
factors is in most cases higher at the end than at the beginning of the 
observation period.
CONCLUSIONS: Over-generalized statements suggesting that smoking is the main 
driver of the gender gap in all populations can be misleading. The results of 
this study demonstrate that-regardless of the prevailing effect of smoking-many 
populations have still remarkable potentials to further narrow their gender gaps 
in life expectancy. Although measures to further reduce the prevalence of 
tobacco consumption must be continued, more attention should be directed to the 
growing importance of other non-biological factors.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Public Health Association.

DOI: 10.1093/eurpub/cku211
PMCID: PMC4512955
PMID: 25505018 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


220. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2014 Dec 13;107(1):366. doi: 10.1093/jnci/dju366. Print
2015  Jan.

Cost-effectiveness of prostate cancer screening: a simulation study based on 
ERSPC data.

Heijnsdijk EA(1), de Carvalho TM(2), Auvinen A(2), Zappa M(2), Nelen V(2), 
Kwiatkowski M(2), Villers A(2), Páez A(2), Moss SM(2), Tammela TL(2), Recker 
F(2), Denis L(2), Carlsson SV(2), Wever EM(2), Bangma CH(2), Schröder FH(2), 
Roobol MJ(2), Hugosson J(2), de Koning HJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health (EAMH, TMdC, EMW, HJdK) and Department of Urology 
(CHB, FHS, MJR), Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Tampere 
School of Health Sciences, University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland (AA); Unit of 
Epidemiology, Institute for Cancer Prevention, Florence, Italy (MZ); Provinciaal 
Instituut voor Hygiëne, Antwerp, Belgium (VN, LD); Department of Urology, 
Kantonsspital Aarau, Aarau, Switzerland (MK, FR); Department of Urology, Centre 
Hospitalier Regional Universitaire, Lille, France (AV); Department of Urology, 
Hospital de Fuenlabrada, Madrid, Spain (AP); Centre for Cancer Prevention, Queen 
Mary University of London, UK (SMM); Department of Urology, Tampere University 
Hospital and University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland (TLJT); Oncology Center, 
Antwerp, Belgium (LD); Department of Urology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden (SVC, JH); Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Department 
of Surgery (Urology), New York, NY (SVC). e.heijnsdijk@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Public Health (EAMH, TMdC, EMW, HJdK) and Department of Urology 
(CHB, FHS, MJR), Erasmus Medical Center, Rotterdam, the Netherlands; Tampere 
School of Health Sciences, University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland (AA); Unit of 
Epidemiology, Institute for Cancer Prevention, Florence, Italy (MZ); Provinciaal 
Instituut voor Hygiëne, Antwerp, Belgium (VN, LD); Department of Urology, 
Kantonsspital Aarau, Aarau, Switzerland (MK, FR); Department of Urology, Centre 
Hospitalier Regional Universitaire, Lille, France (AV); Department of Urology, 
Hospital de Fuenlabrada, Madrid, Spain (AP); Centre for Cancer Prevention, Queen 
Mary University of London, UK (SMM); Department of Urology, Tampere University 
Hospital and University of Tampere, Tampere, Finland (TLJT); Oncology Center, 
Antwerp, Belgium (LD); Department of Urology, Sahlgrenska University Hospital, 
Gothenburg, Sweden (SVC, JH); Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, Department 
of Surgery (Urology), New York, NY (SVC).

Comment in
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015 Jun;107(6):djv110.
    J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015 Jun;107(6):djv111.
    J Urol. 2015 Jul;194(1):113-4.

BACKGROUND: The results of the European Randomized Study of Screening for 
Prostate Cancer (ERSPC) trial showed a statistically significant 29% prostate 
cancer mortality reduction for the men screened in the intervention arm and a 
23% negative impact on the life-years gained because of quality of life. 
However, alternative prostate-specific antigen (PSA) screening strategies for 
the population may exist, optimizing the effects on mortality reduction, quality 
of life, overdiagnosis, and costs.
METHODS: Based on data of the ERSPC trial, we predicted the numbers of prostate 
cancers diagnosed, prostate cancer deaths averted, life-years and 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALY) gained, and cost-effectiveness of 68 
screening strategies starting at age 55 years, with a PSA threshold of 3, using 
microsimulation modeling. The screening strategies varied by age to stop 
screening and screening interval (one to 14 years or once in a lifetime 
screens), and therefore number of tests.
RESULTS: Screening at short intervals of three years or less was more 
cost-effective than using longer intervals. Screening at ages 55 to 59 years 
with two-year intervals had an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of $73000 
per QALY gained and was considered optimal. With this strategy, lifetime 
prostate cancer mortality reduction was predicted as 13%, and 33% of the 
screen-detected cancers were overdiagnosed. When better quality of life for the 
post-treatment period could be achieved, an older age of 65 to 72 years for 
ending screening was obtained.
CONCLUSION: Prostate cancer screening can be cost-effective when it is limited 
to two or three screens between ages 55 to 59 years. Screening above age 63 
years is less cost-effective because of loss of QALYs because of overdiagnosis.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/dju366
PMCID: PMC4296196
PMID: 25505238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


221. Pharmacol Res Perspect. 2014 Oct;2(5):e00064. doi: 10.1002/prp2.64. Epub
2014  Aug 24.

Survival benefit of ghrelin in the heart failure due to dilated cardiomyopathy.

Du CK(1), Zhan DY(1), Morimoto S(2), Akiyama T(1), Schwenke DO(3), Hosoda H(4), 
Kangawa K(5), Shirai M(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Cardiac Physiology, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center 
Research Institute Osaka, Japan.
(2)Department of Clinical Pharmacology, Graduate School of Medical Sciences, 
Kyushu University Fukuoka, Japan.
(3)Department of Physiology, University of Otago Otago, New Zealand.
(4)Department of Regenerative Medicine and Tissue Engineering, National Cerebral 
and Cardiovascular Center Research Institute Osaka, Japan.
(5)Department of Biochemistry, National Cerebral and Cardiovascular Center 
Research Institute Osaka, Japan.

Although ghrelin has been demonstrated to improve cardiac function in heart 
failure, its therapeutic efficacy on the life expectancy remains unknown. We aim 
to examine whether ghrelin can improve the life survival in heart failure using 
a mouse model of inherited dilated cardiomyopathy (DCM) caused by a deletion 
mutation ΔK210 in cardiac troponin T (cTnT). From 30 days of age, ghrelin (150 
μg/kg) was administered subcutaneously to DCM mice once daily, control mice 
received saline only. The survival rates were compared between the two groups 
for 30 days. After 30-day treatment, functional and morphological measurements 
were conducted. Ghrelin-treated DCM mice had significantly prolonged life spans 
compared with saline-treated control DCM mice. Echocardiography showed that 
ghrelin reduced left ventricular (LV) end-diastolic dimensions and increased LV 
ejection fraction. Moreover, histoanatomical data revealed that ghrelin 
decreased the heart-to-body weight ratio, prevented cardiac remodeling and 
fibrosis, and markedly decreased the expression of brain natriuretic peptide. 
Telemetry recording and heart rate variability analysis showed that ghrelin 
suppressed the excessive cardiac sympathetic nerve activity (CSNA) and recovered 
the cardiac parasympathetic nerve activity. These results suggest that ghrelin 
has therapeutic benefits for survival as well as for the cardiac function and 
remodeling in heart failure probably through suppression of CSNA and recovery of 
cardiac parasympathetic nerve activity.

DOI: 10.1002/prp2.64
PMCID: PMC4186424
PMID: 25505608


222. Soc Sci Q. 2013 Jun;94(2):445-461. doi: 10.1111/j.1540-6237.2012.00930.x.

Stagnating Life Expectancies and Future Prospects in an Age of Uncertainty*.

Denney JT(1), McNown R(2), Rogers RG(3), Doubilet S(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Rice University.
(2)Department of Economics, International Affairs Program, and Population 
Program University of Colorado at Boulder.
(3)Department of Sociology and Population Program, University of Colorado at 
Boulder.

OBJECTIVE: This article provides a timely assessment of U.S. life expectancy 
given recent stalls in the growth of length of life, the continuing drop in 
international rankings of life expectancy for the U.S., and during a period of 
growing social and economic insecurity.
METHODS: Time series analysis is used on over 70 years of data from the Human 
Mortality Database to forecast future life expectancy to the year 2055.
RESULTS: The results show limited improvements in U.S. life expectancy at birth, 
less than 3 years on average, for both men and women.
CONCLUSIONS: Even in uncertain times, it is important to look forward in 
preparing for the needs of future populations. The results presented here 
underscore the relevance of policy and health initiatives aimed at improving the 
nation's health and reveal important insight into possible limits to mortality 
improvement over the next five decades.

DOI: 10.1111/j.1540-6237.2012.00930.x
PMCID: PMC4264628
PMID: 25506092


223. Nihon Rinsho. 2014 Oct;72(10):1849-54.

[The approach to bone and joint disease for extending the healthy life 
expectancy].

[Article in Japanese]

Deie M, Asaeda M, Kono Y, Terai C.

In Japan, the super-aged society, the difference between the healthy life 
expectancy and life expectancy is large, it has become a social problem. For the 
extension of healthy life expectancy, measures to bone and joint disease are 
important. Lower limb muscle strengthening is useful to decrease in pain and 
improvement of walking ability. Further, in order to maintain a balance 
function, improvement in range of motion is important. On the other hand, for 
patients who had joint destruction, decreased ability of exercise, muscle 
weakness, balance dysfunction has already occurred, it is necessary for 
extension of healthy life expectancy including surgical treatment. We believe 
that by performing the appropriate therapeutic intervention, extending healthy 
life expectancy would be possible.

PMID: 25509814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


224. Rev Prat. 2014 Oct;64(8):1086-90.

[Comorbidities in HIV infection and aging with HIV ].

[Article in French]

Viard JP.

HIV infection has become a chronic condition with a life-long treatment. As 
AIDS-related mortality is decreasing, persons living with HIV are aging, their 
life expectancy tending to reach that of the general population. Aging with the 
virus and on antiretroviral drugs is raising new challenges: "non AIDS-defining" 
cancers, cardiovascular diseases, osteoporosis, and maybe neurocognitive 
disorders represent a new set of comorbidities in this setting, and some of them 
are now becoming significant causes of death. It is now clear that risk factors 
for these conditions include the classical risk factors known in the general 
population, but also risk factors specifically related to the history of HIV 
infection and its treatment. As a consequence, treating persons with HIV 
infection now follows two main objectives: controlling the virus and taking 
long-term comorbidities into account (prevention, testing and treatment). 
Specificitiesare linked to the existence of HIV-specific risk factors and to the 
problem of drug-drug interactions with antiretrovirals.

PMID: 25510131 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


225. Rev Prat. 2014 Oct;64(8):1099-102.

[HIV infection and social condition: a disease which remains singular].

[Article in French]

Celse M, Geffroy L, Yeni P.

Increased efficacy of HIV therapy has resulted in a dramatic improvement in 
patient's health condition regarding life expectancy and life quality. However, 
such favorable evolution had no significant impact on the social condition of 
the population living with HIV, which remains more exposed to socio-economical 
difficulties and to different forms of stigmatization and discrimination. Public 
policies do address these issues. The national HIV/AIDS and STI strategic plan 
2010-2014 provides a range of actions aimed at fighting against discriminations 
and improving social care for the most vulnerable people living with HIV. It 
notably tries to achieve equal access to programs and services developed for 
patients with chronic diseases and to improve their condition regarding access 
to care, employment, housing and income. Implementation of these measures, 
however, proves difficult. Addressing social and societal concerns that HIV 
infection still raises is part of the care and support that should be offered to 
patients. Providing this comprehensive approach remains critical for ensuring 
optimized individual therapeutic outcomes as well as an efficient collective 
response to the epidemic.

PMID: 25510134 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


226. J Hand Surg Am. 2015 Feb;40(2):224-228.e1. doi: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2014.10.032.
Epub  2014 Dec 13.

Long-term functional outcomes after bilateral total wrist arthrodesis.

Wagner ER(1), Elhassan BT(1), Kakar S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Division of Hand Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Division of Hand Surgery, Mayo Clinic, 
Rochester, MN. Electronic address: kakar.sanjeev@mayo.edu.

PURPOSE: To report on the long-term outcomes of bilateral total wrist 
arthrodeses.
METHODS: We conducted a review of all living patients who underwent bilateral 
wrist arthrodeses from 1980 to 2010 within a single institution. Outcome 
measures included pain, Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand 
questionnaire, Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation, Michigan Hand Questionnaire, 
satisfaction scores, complications, and revision surgeries.
RESULTS: Thirteen patients (26 wrists) were treated with an average follow-up of 
14 years (range, 3-28 y). Average time for contralateral wrist arthrodesis was 
16 months after initial wrist arthrodesis. Eleven wrists had undergone prior 
surgery. Eleven patients had a primary diagnosis of inflammatory arthritis. 
Wrists were fused from 5° flexion to 30° extension, with all but one patient's 
wrist fused within 10° of the contralateral wrist. There was a significant 
improvement in postoperative grip strength and pain levels. Postoperative 
Disabilities of the Arm, Shoulder, and Hand, Patient-Rated Wrist Evaluation, and 
Michigan Hand Questionnaire scores were 21, 29, and 73, respectively. Increasing 
age, preoperative steroid usage, and concomitant shoulder or elbow disorders 
were associated with worse outcomes. Twelve patients (93%) were satisfied and 
would repeat the surgery and 9 returned to full-time work. The major functional 
limitation was turning a doorknob or tight jar lid. Seven patients underwent 
additional surgery including 5 revision arthrodeses and 2 plate removals. 
Revision surgeries were more common in patients with prior surgeries or 
preoperative steroid usage, women, smokers, those with ipsilateral elbow 
dysfunction, and those with fixation with a dorsal locking plate.
CONCLUSIONS: Bilateral total wrist arthrodesis improved pain while enabling 
patients with severe carpal arthrosis to maintain a satisfactory level of 
extremity function and quality of life. In general, patients adapted and were 
satisfied with functional capabilities. This is a viable salvage option for 
patients with severe bilateral disease.
TYPE OF STUDY/LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Therapeutic III.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Surgery of the Hand. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhsa.2014.10.032
PMID: 25510154 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


227. Alzheimers Dement. 2015 Jun;11(6):700-9. doi: 10.1016/j.jalz.2014.10.007.
Epub  2014 Dec 12.

Down syndrome and Alzheimer's disease: Common pathways, common goals.

Hartley D(1), Blumenthal T(2), Carrillo M(3), DiPaolo G(4), Esralew L(5), 
Gardiner K(6), Granholm AC(7), Iqbal K(8), Krams M(9), Lemere C(10), Lott I(11), 
Mobley W(12), Ness S(9), Nixon R(13), Potter H(14), Reeves R(15), Sabbagh M(16), 
Silverman W(17), Tycko B(4), Whitten M(18), Wisniewski T(19).

Author information:
(1)Medical and Scientific Relations, Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, IL, USA. 
Electronic address: dhartley@alz.org.
(2)Linda Crnic Institute for Down Syndrome, University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, 
USA; Department of Molecular, Cellular and Developmental Biology, University of 
Colorado, Boulder, CO, USA.
(3)Medical and Scientific Relations, Alzheimer's Association, Chicago, IL, USA.
(4)Department of Pathology and Cell Biology, Columbia University Medical Center 
and The Taub Institute for Research on Alzheimer's Disease and The Aging Brain, 
New York, NY, USA.
(5)Department of Behavioral Health, Trinitas Regional Medical Center, Elizabeth, 
NJ, USA.
(6)Linda Crnic Institute for Down Syndrome, University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, 
USA; Department of Pediatrics, University of Colorado, Denver, CO, USA.
(7)Department of Neuroscience and the Center on Aging, Medical University of 
South Carolina, Columbia, SC, USA.
(8)Department of Neurochemistry, New York State Institute for Basic Research in 
Developmental Disabilities, New York, NY, USA.
(9)Janssen Research & Development, Raritan, NJ, USA.
(10)Department of Neurology and the Anne Romney Center for Neurologic Diseases, 
Brigham and Women's Hospital, Harvard Medical School, Boston, MA, USA.
(11)Department of Pediatrics, University of California, Irvine, CA, USA.
(12)Department of Neurosciences, University of California, San Diego, CA, USA.
(13)Department of Psychiatry and Cell Biology, New York University, Langone 
Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.
(14)Linda Crnic Institute for Down Syndrome, University of Colorado, Aurora, CO, 
USA; Department of Neurology, University of Colorado, Denver, CO, USA.
(15)Department of Physiology, McKusick-Nathans Institute for Genetic Medicine, 
Johns Hopkins University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(16)Banner Sun Health Research Institute, Banner Health, Sun City, AZ, USA.
(17)Department of Behavioral Psychology, Kennedy Krieger Institute, Baltimore, 
MD, USA; Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, Johns Hopkins 
University School of Medicine, Baltimore, MD, USA.
(18)Global Down Syndrome Foundation, Denver, CO, USA.
(19)Department of Neurology, Pathology, and Psychiatry, New York University, 
Langone Medical Center, New York, NY, USA.

In the United States, estimates indicate there are between 250,000 and 400,000 
individuals with Down syndrome (DS), and nearly all will develop Alzheimer's 
disease (AD) pathology starting in their 30s. With the current lifespan being 55 
to 60 years, approximately 70% will develop dementia, and if their life 
expectancy continues to increase, the number of individuals developing AD will 
concomitantly increase. Pathogenic and mechanistic links between DS and 
Alzheimer's prompted the Alzheimer's Association to partner with the Linda Crnic 
Institute for Down Syndrome and the Global Down Syndrome Foundation at a 
workshop of AD and DS experts to discuss similarities and differences, 
challenges, and future directions for this field. The workshop articulated a set 
of research priorities: (1) target identification and drug development, (2) 
clinical and pathological staging, (3) cognitive assessment and clinical trials, 
and (4) partnerships and collaborations with the ultimate goal to deliver 
effective disease-modifying treatments.

Copyright © 2015 The Alzheimer's Association. Published by Elsevier Inc. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jalz.2014.10.007
PMCID: PMC4817997
PMID: 25510383 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


228. Colorectal Dis. 2015 May;17(5):390-6. doi: 10.1111/codi.12871.

Gender aspects of survival after surgical treatment for rectal cancer.

Lydrup ML(1), Höglund P.

Author information:
(1)Division of Surgery, Department of Clinical Sciences, Skåne University 
Hospital, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.

AIM: Longer survival in women than men after rectal cancer surgery has been 
reported. Our hypothesis was that after correction for their longer life 
expectancy a survival benefit for women would still remain.
METHOD: We studied 2792 patients diagnosed with rectal cancer in the southern 
part of Sweden between 1996 and 2006. The following parameters were included in 
a prespecified multivariable Cox regression analysis: age at diagnosis, gender, 
preoperative radiotherapy, stage, year and type of surgery. In addition to 
overall survival, relative survival was calculated using the Hakulinen approach 
utilizing an age-, gender- and calendar year-matched Swedish control cohort.
RESULTS: Female patients were significantly older, received neoadjuvant 
treatment less often and were more often operated on by local excision. Overall 
survival was significantly longer in women. In the multivariable analysis of 
relative survival, controlling for neoadjuvant treatment, Dukes stage and year 
and type of surgery, no significant effect of gender [hazard ratio (HR) 1.10 for 
men, P = 0.114] was found, whereas an improved relative survival with increased 
age (HR 0.96 per year, P < 0.001) was seen. In contrast, using the same 
multivariable model with no correction for underlying mortality in the 
population, male gender (HR 1.38, P < 0.001) and greater age (HR 1.05 per year, 
P < 0.001) increased the risk of death.
CONCLUSION: The results show that after correction for the underlying longer 
survival in women and some known confounders, survival after surgical treatment 
for rectal cancer appears to be gender neutral.

Colorectal Disease © 2014 The Association of Coloproctology of Great Britain and 
Ireland.

DOI: 10.1111/codi.12871
PMID: 25510408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


229. Taiwan J Obstet Gynecol. 2014 Dec;53(4):452-8. doi:
10.1016/j.tjog.2014.08.001.

Pelvic floor dysfunction, and effects of pregnancy and mode of delivery on 
pelvic floor.

Bozkurt M(1), Yumru AE(2), Şahin L(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Urogynecology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Kafkas 
University Medical School, Kars, Turkey. Electronic address: jindrmb@yahoo.com.
(2)Division of Urogynecology, Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Taksim 
Education and Research Hospital, İstanbul, Turkey.
(3)Kafkas University School of Medicine, Department of Obstetrics and 
Gynecology, Kars, Turkey.

Pelvic floor dysfunction (PFD), although seems to be simple, is a complex 
process that develops secondary to multifactorial factors. The incidence of PFD 
is increasing with increasing life expectancy. PFD is a term that refers to a 
broad range of clinical scenarios, including lower urinary tract excretory and 
defecation disorders, such as urinary and anal incontinence, overactive bladder, 
and pelvic organ prolapse, as well as sexual disorders. It is a financial burden 
on the health care system and disrupts women's quality of life. Strategies 
applied to decrease PFD are focused on the course of pregnancy, mode and 
management of delivery, and pelvic exercise methods. Many studies in the 
literature define traumatic birth, usage of forceps, length of the second stage 
of delivery, and sphincter damage as modifiable risk factors for PFD. Maternal 
age, fetal position, and fetal head circumference are nonmodifiable risk 
factors. Although numerous studies show that vaginal delivery affects pelvic 
floor structures and their functions in a negative way, there is not enough 
scientific evidence to recommend elective cesarean delivery in order to prevent 
development of PFD. PFD is a heterogeneous pathological condition, and the 
effects of pregnancy, vaginal delivery, cesarean delivery, and possible risk 
factors of PFD may be different from each other. Observational studies have 
identified certain obstetrical exposures as risk factors for pelvic floor 
disorders. These factors often coexist; therefore, the isolated effects of these 
variables on the pelvic floor are difficult to study. The routine use of 
episiotomy for many years in order to prevent PFD is not recommended anymore; 
episiotomy should be used in selected cases, and the mediolateral procedures 
should be used if needed.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier B.V.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tjog.2014.08.001
PMID: 25510682 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


230. Am J Trop Med Hyg. 2015 Feb;92(2):360-366. doi: 10.4269/ajtmh.14-0139. Epub
2014  Dec 15.

Economic cost and burden of dengue in the Philippines.

Edillo FE, Halasa YA, Largo FM, Erasmo JNV, Amoin NB, Alera MTP, Yoon IK, 
Alcantara AC, Shepard DS.

Dengue, the world's most important mosquito-borne viral disease, is endemic in 
the Philippines. During 2008-2012, the country's Department of Health reported 
an annual average of 117,065 dengue cases, placing the country fourth in dengue 
burden in southeast Asia. This study estimates the country's annual number of 
dengue episodes and their economic cost. Our comparison of cases between active 
and passive surveillance in Punta Princesa, Cebu City yielded an expansion 
factor of 7.2, close to the predicted value (7.0) based on the country's health 
system. We estimated an annual average of 842,867 clinically diagnosed dengue 
cases, with direct medical costs (in 2012 US dollars) of $345 million ($3.26 per 
capita). This is 54% higher than an earlier estimate without 
Philippines-specific costs. Ambulatory settings treated 35% of cases 
(representing 10% of direct costs), whereas inpatient hospitals served 65% of 
cases (representing 90% of direct costs). The economic burden of dengue in the 
Philippines is substantial.

© The American Society of Tropical Medicine and Hygiene.

DOI: 10.4269/ajtmh.14-0139
PMCID: PMC4347342
PMID: 25510723 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


231. Soc Sci Med. 2015 Feb;127:203-5. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.11.017. Epub
2014  Nov 12.

Educational attainment and life expectancy: a perspective from the NIH Office of 
Behavioral and Social Sciences Research.

Spittel ML(1), Riley WT(2), Kaplan RM(3).

Author information:
(1)Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (OBSSR/NIH), US Department 
of Health and Human Services, USA. Electronic address: Michael.Spittel@nih.gov.
(2)Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research (OBSSR/NIH), US Department 
