Electronic address: xcwang@xauat.edu.cn.
(3)School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Faculty of Engineering and 
Information Technology, University of Technology Sydney, Broadway, NSW 2007, 
Australia. Electronic address: h.ngo@uts.edu.au.
(4)School of Civil and Environmental Engineering, Faculty of Engineering and 
Information Technology, University of Technology Sydney, Broadway, NSW 2007, 
Australia.

Disability adjusted life year (DALY) has been widely used since 1990s for 
evaluating global and/or regional burden of diseases. As many environmental 
pollutants are hazardous to human health, DALY is also recognized as an 
indicator to quantify the health impact of environmental pollution related to 
disease burden. Based on literature reviews, this article aims to give an 
overview of the applicable methodologies and research directions for using DALY 
as a tool for quantitative assessment of environmental pollution. With an 
introduction of the methodological framework of DALY, the requirements on data 
collection and manipulation for quantifying disease burdens are summarized. 
Regarding environmental pollutants hazardous to human beings, health effect/risk 
evaluation is indispensable for transforming pollution data into disease data 
through exposure and dose-response analyses which need careful selection of 
models and determination of parameters. Following the methodological 
discussions, real cases are analyzed with attention paid to chemical pollutants 
and pathogens usually encountered in environmental pollution. It can be seen 
from existing studies that DALY is advantageous over conventional environmental 
impact assessment for quantification and comparison of the risks resulted from 
environmental pollution. However, further studies are still required to 
standardize the methods of health effect evaluation regarding varied pollutants 
under varied circumstances before DALY calculation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.scitotenv.2014.11.048
PMID: 25549348 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


323. Demography. 2015 Feb;52(1):1-14. doi: 10.1007/s13524-014-0357-y.

Hispanic older adult mortality in the United States: new estimates and an 
assessment of factors shaping the Hispanic paradox.

Lariscy JT(1), Hummer RA, Hayward MD.

Author information:
(1)Population Research Institute and Department of Sociology, Duke University, 
271 Soc-Psyc Building, Campus Box 90088, Durham, NC, 27708, USA, 
joseph.lariscy@duke.edu.

Hispanics make up a rapidly growing proportion of the U.S. older adult 
population, so a firm grasp of their mortality patterns is paramount for 
identifying racial/ethnic differences in life chances in the population as a 
whole. Documentation of Hispanic mortality is also essential for assessing 
whether the Hispanic paradox--the similarity in death rates between Hispanics 
and non-Hispanic whites despite Hispanics' socioeconomic 
disadvantage--characterizes all adult Hispanics or just some age, gender, 
nativity, or national-origin subgroups. We estimate age-/sex- and cause-specific 
mortality rate ratios and life expectancy for foreign-born and U.S.-born 
Hispanics, foreign-born and U.S.-born Mexican Americans, non-Hispanic blacks, 
and non-Hispanic whites ages 65 and older using the 1989-2006 National Health 
Interview Survey Linked Mortality Files. Results affirm that Hispanic mortality 
estimates are favorable relative to those of blacks and whites, but particularly 
so for foreign-born Hispanics and smoking-related causes. However, if not for 
Hispanics' socioeconomic disadvantage, their mortality levels would be even more 
favorable.

DOI: 10.1007/s13524-014-0357-y
PMCID: PMC4318748
PMID: 25550142 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


324. Anatol J Cardiol. 2015 Jan;15(1):63-8. doi: 10.5152/akd.2014.5731. Epub 2014
Aug  19.

Mortality in heart failure patients.

Bytyçi I(1), Bajraktari G.

Author information:
(1)Clinic of Cardiology and Angiology, University Clinical Centre of Kosova; 
Prishtina-Republic of Kosovo. gani.bajraktari@uni-pr.edu.

Heart failure (HF) is a clinical syndrome, which is becoming a major public 
health problem in recent decades, due to its increasing prevalence, especially 
in the developed countries, mostly due to prolonged lifespan of the general 
population as well as the increased of HF patients. The HF treatment, 
particularly, new pharmacological and non-pharmacological agents, has markedly 
improved clinical outcomes of patients with HF including increased life 
expectancy and improved quality of life. However, despite the facts that 
mortality in HF patients has decreased, it still remains unacceptably high. This 
review of summarizes the evidence to date about the mortality of HF patients. 
Despite the impressive achievements in the pharmacological and 
non-pharmacological treatment of HF patients which has undeniably improved the 
survival of these patients, the mortality still remains high particularly among 
elderly, male and African-American patients. Patients with HF and reduced 
ejection fraction have higher mortality rates, most commonly due to 
cardiovascular causes, compared with patients HF and preserved ejection 
fraction.

DOI: 10.5152/akd.2014.5731
PMCID: PMC5336901
PMID: 25550250 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest: None declared.


325. J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 May;86(5):496-501. doi: 
10.1136/jnnp-2014-309601. Epub 2014 Dec 30.

A multidisciplinary clinic approach improves survival in ALS: a comparative 
study of ALS in Ireland and Northern Ireland.

Rooney J(1), Byrne S(1), Heverin M(1), Tobin K(1), Dick A(2), Donaghy C(2), 
Hardiman O(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Academic Neurology, Trinity Biomedical Sciences Institute 
Trinity College, Dublin, Ireland.
(2)Department of Neurology, Royal Victoria Hospital, Belfast, UK.

Comment in
    J Neurol Neurosurg Psychiatry. 2015 May;86(5):481-2.

BACKGROUND: Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a progressive debilitating 
neurodegenerative disease, with a life expectancy of 3-5 years from first 
symptom. There is compelling evidence that those who attend a multidisciplinary 
clinic experience improved survival. The purpose of the study was to explore the 
survival of patients with ALS ascertained through population-based Registers in 
the Republic of Ireland (RoI) and Northern Ireland (NI), and to determine 
whether centralisation of services confers advantage compared with 
community-based care supported by a specialist care worker.
METHODS: The island of Ireland is divided into two countries, RoI and NI, each 
with an independent healthcare system. Both countries have population-based ALS 
Registers with full ascertainment. Data from all 719 incident ALS cases from 
Ireland and NI, diagnosed between 1 January 2005 and 31 December 2010, were used 
in the analysis.
RESULTS: A survival benefit was identified for patients who attended the 
multidisciplinary ALS clinic in the RoI. (HR 0.59, 95% CI 0.49 to 0.71, 
p<0.001). This difference was preserved following multivariate analysis. A trend 
towards improved survival was noted for patients with ALS from NI when compared 
with RoI patients who did not attend a multidisciplinary clinic.
CONCLUSIONS: Centralised multidisciplinary care confers a survival advantage for 
patients with ALS and is superior to devolved community-based care. We propose 
that multiple decision-making processes within a multidisciplinary setting lead 
to an enriched set of clinical encounters for the patient and carer that 
enhances clinical outcome.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/jnnp-2014-309601
PMID: 25550416 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


326. Anticancer Res. 2015 Jan;35(1):137-44.

Vascular endothelial growth factor, basic fibroblast growth factor and 
epithelial growth factor receptor in peripheral nerve sheath tumors of 
neurofibromatosis type 1.

Friedrich RE(1), Beer C(2), Glatzel M(2), Hagel C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Oral and Craniomaxillofacial Surgery, Eppendorf University 
Hospital, University of Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany r.friedrich@uke.de.
(2)Institute of Neuropathology, Eppendorf University Hospital, University of 
Hamburg, Hamburg, Germany.

BACKGROUND/AIM: Neurofibromas, benign tumors of the nerve sheaths, are the 
hallmark of neurofibromatosis type 1 (NF1), an autosomal-dominant inherited 
tumor predisposition syndrome. Malignant tumors arising from nerve sheath cells 
are an important factor influencing the life expectancy of NF1 patients. 
Expression of growth factors and growth factor receptors play a key role in the 
development of tumors. Therapy of peripheral nerve sheath (PNS) tumors is 
predominantly surgical. The outcome in malignant entities of NF1-affected 
patients remains poor, despite many efforts to implement pharmacological therapy 
into the treatment modalities. Growth of peripheral nerve sheath tumors is 
finely-adjusted by growth factors and PNS tumors express growth factor 
receptors. However, quantification of receptor expression and comparison to the 
expression of other related factors are not available. The aim of the present 
study was to determine growth factor expression relevant for growth control in 
neurofibromas of NF1.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Fifty-eight dermal, dermal/diffuse and plexiform 
neurofibromas and malignant peripheral nerve sheath tumors (MPNST) of 
NF1-affected patients were analyzed immunohistochemically for the expression of 
growth factors relevant for angiogenesis: vascular endothelial growth factor 
(VEGF), basic fibroblast growth factor (bFGF) and epithelial growth factor 
receptor (EGFR). The vessel density was also determined quantitatively by light 
microscopy.
RESULTS: Plexiform neurofibroma revealed a higher expression level for VEGF 
compared to dermal/diffuse neurofibroma. However, statistical significant 
differences for VEGF expression and of all other proteins investigated were 
found in comparison to MPNST only. EGFR expression was remarkably high in NF1 
patients in their first decade of life. However, this result has to be 
interpreted with caution in view of the high number of young patients with MPNST 
in this age group. Vessel density correlated with tumor type. Vessel density 
increased significantly comparing benign nerve sheath tumors and MPNST (p<0.05).
DISCUSSION/CONCLUSION: This study revealed the presence of factors and receptors 
involved in angiogenesis as a prerequisite for tumor development and maintenance 
of PNS in NF1. These factors are highly expressed in all tumors of this study. 
This study reveals these relevant factors in nerve sheath tumors and also 
described the significant increase of vessel density in MPNST compared to benign 
counterparts. Anti-angiogenic drugs are presently investigated for application 
in NF1 tumor treatment, in particular for patients with a surgically-intractable 
high tumor burden. Drugs capable of blocking the EGFR receptor-mediated pathway 
are promising tools within the pharmacological repertoires to treat these 
patients.

Copyright© 2015 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G. 
Delinassios), All rights reserved.

PMID: 25550544 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


327. Anticancer Res. 2015 Jan;35(1):427-32.

Surgical treatment of metastatic femoral fractures: achieving an improved 
quality of life for cancer patients.

Morishige M(1), Muramatsu K(2), Tominaga Y(1), Hashimoto T(1), Taguchi T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Yamaguchi University School of Medicine, 
Ube, Yamaguchi, Japan.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Yamaguchi University School of Medicine, 
Ube, Yamaguchi, Japan muramatu@yamaguchi-u.ac.jp.

BACKGROUND: The femur is the most common long bone affected by metastatic 
carcinoma. We report our experience regarding treatment of metastatic femoral 
fracture using femoral head prosthesis (FHP) or intramedullary nailing (IM nail) 
with augmentation by polymethylmethacrylate (PMMA).
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Thirty-five complete fractures in 33 patients were treated 
surgically. Metastatic lesions were present in the femoral head to neck region 
(n=9), trochanteric to shaft region (n=23) and supracondular region (n=3).
RESULTS: Eight out of 9 patients with proximal femoral metastasis reconstructed 
by FHP were later able to walk outdoors. For the 11 patients with trochanteric 
metastasis, the short type of gamma nail was used for bony fixation. In two 
patients the inserted IM nails were broken. All other cases showed excellent 
clinical outcomes. For the 12 patients with femoral shaft metastasis, the long 
type of gamma nail was inserted. Nine cases showed excellent clinical outcomes 
without any serious complications.
CONCLUSION: FHP is indicated for metastases in the femoral head to neck region. 
IM nailing is best indicated when the lesion is located in the proximal to mid 
shaft and the patient's life expectancy is <6 month.

Copyright© 2015 International Institute of Anticancer Research (Dr. John G. 
Delinassios), All rights reserved.

PMID: 25550583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


328. PeerJ. 2014 Dec 23;2:e712. doi: 10.7717/peerj.712. eCollection 2014.

Quantifying the effect of intervertebral cartilage on neutral posture in the 
necks of sauropod dinosaurs.

Taylor MP(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Earth Sciences, University of Bristol , Bristol , England, 
United Kingdom.

Attempts to reconstruct the neutral neck posture of sauropod dinosaurs, or 
indeed any tetrapod, are doomed to failure when based only on the geometry of 
the bony cervical vertebrae. The thickness of the articular cartilage between 
the centra of adjacent vertebrae affects posture. It extends (raises) the neck 
by an amount roughly proportional to the thickness of the cartilage. It is 
possible to quantify the angle of extension at an intervertebral joint: it is 
roughly equal, in radians, to the cartilage thickness divided by the height of 
the zygapophyseal facets over the centre of rotation. Applying this formula to 
published measurements of well-known sauropod specimens suggests that if the 
thickness of cartilage were equal to 4.5%, 10% or 18% of centrum length, the 
neutral pose of the Apatosaurus louisae holotype CM 3018 would be extended by an 
average of 5.5, 11.8 or 21.2 degrees, respectively, at each intervertebral 
joint. For the Diplodocus carnegii holotype CM 84, the corresponding angles of 
additional extension are even greater: 8.4, 18.6 or 33.3 degrees. The 
cartilaginous neutral postures (CNPs) calculated for 10% cartilage-the most 
reasonable estimate-appear outlandish. But it must be remembered that these 
would not have been the habitual life postures, because tetrapods habitually 
extend the base of their neck and flex the anterior part, yielding the 
distinctive S-curve most easily seen in birds.

DOI: 10.7717/peerj.712
PMCID: PMC4277489
PMID: 25551027


329. MMW Fortschr Med. 2014 Nov 13;156 Spec no 2:1.

[More fractures, increased mortality. Is drinking milk not so good after all?].

[Article in German]

Moreano B(1).

Author information:
(1)brigitte.moreano@springer.com

PMID: 25551988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


330. Vopr Onkol. 2014;60(4):486-8.

[The results of chemoradiotherapy for locally advanced laryngeal cancer with 
hyperfractionated radiotherapy].

[Article in Russian]

Kurpeshev OK, Gulidov VA, Andreev VG, Pankratov IA, Orlova AV.

Single chemoradiotherapy (CRT) was performed in 27 patients with laryngeal 
cancer (T3-4N0-3M0). Radiotherapy (RT) was carried out in hyperfractionated mode 
1+1 Gy (every 4-5 hours), 5 times a week to CFD 60 Gy with a 2-week break after 
CFD 30-40 Gy. Courses of polychemotherapy (PCT) were performed simultaneously 
with RT at each stage of treatment. Overall 5-year survival of patients in the 
whole by the group (T3-4N0-3) was 44.6%, for patients with T3N0--72.7%, 
T3N1-20--42.9%, T4N1-2--40.0% with an average life expectancy 38.1; 50.8; 39.0 
and 39.8 months respectively. During a 5-year follow-up the local control of the 
primary tumor at T3 was equal to 61%, T4--25% with a median remission of 40.6 
and 13.5 months respectively. During this period the regional control at 
metastases N1 was 50%, with a median remission of 32.7 months. In 4 patients of 
5 with N2 and in all 3 patients with N3 during the first year after CRT 
continued growth or tumor recurrence was diagnosed. Thus, conservative CRT 
provides relatively satisfactory 5-year outcomes in patients with tumors T3N0-1.

PMID: 25552069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


331. Am J Hosp Palliat Care. 2016 Jun;33(5):471-6. doi: 10.1177/1049909114566226.
 Epub 2014 Dec 31.

Sequential Assessments of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group Performance 
Scale Enhance Prognostic Value in Patients With Terminally Ill Cancer Receiving 
Palliative Care.

Peng MT(1), Liu CT(2), Hung YS(1), Kao CY(1), Chang PH(3), Yeh KY(3), Wang 
HM(1), Lin YC(1), Chou WC(4).

Author information:
(1)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung 
Memorial Hospital Linkou Branch, School of Medicine, Chang Gung University, 
Taoyuan, Taiwan.
(2)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung 
Memorial Hospital Kaohsiung Branch, Kaohsiung, Taiwan.
(3)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung 
Memorial Hospital Keelung Branch, Keelung, Taiwan.
(4)Division of Hematology-Oncology, Department of Internal Medicine, Chang Gung 
Memorial Hospital Linkou Branch, School of Medicine, Chang Gung University, 
Taoyuan, Taiwan wenchi3992@yahoo.com.tw.

This study aimed to assess the utility of the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
(ECOG) performance scale assessments on days 1 and 8 of palliative care, as well 
as scale change between these assessments, as prognostic tools for patients with 
terminally ill cancer. A total of 2392 patients with terminally ill cancer who 
received palliative care between January 2006 and December 2011 at a single 
medical center were analyzed. Our study showed that the ECOG scale is a useful 
prognostic tool to predict life expectancy in patients with terminally ill 
cancer. The ECOG scale assessments at different time points under palliative 
care were independent predictors for overall survival. The combined ECOG scale 
assessments on days 1 and 8 predicted survival more precisely than using day 1 
ECOG scale assessment alone.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1049909114566226
PMID: 25552306 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


332. Diabetes Care. 2015 Mar;38(3):460-8. doi: 10.2337/dc14-1453. Epub 2014 Dec
31.

Life years lost and lifetime health care expenditures associated with diabetes 
in the U.S., National Health Interview Survey, 1997-2000.

Leung MY(1), Pollack LM(2), Colditz GA(1), Chang SH(3).

Author information:
(1)Division of Public Health Sciences, Department of Surgery, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO.
(2)George Warren Brown School of Social Work, Washington University in St. 
Louis, St. Louis, MO.
(3)Division of Public Health Sciences, Department of Surgery, Washington 
University School of Medicine, St. Louis, MO changsh@wudosis.wustl.edu.

OBJECTIVE: This study analyzed the lifetime health care expenditures and life 
years lost associated with diabetes in the U.S.
RESEARCH DESIGN AND METHODS: Data from the National Health Interview Survey 
(NHIS), the Medical Expenditure Panel Survey from 1997 to 2000, and the NHIS 
Linked Mortality Public-use Files with a mortality follow-up to 2006 were used 
to estimate age-, race-, sex-, and BMI-specific risk of diabetes, mortality, and 
annual health care expenditures for both patients with diabetes and those 
without diabetes. A Markov model populated by the risk and cost estimates was 
used to compute life years and total lifetime health care expenditures by age, 
race, sex, and BMI classifications for patients with diabetes and without 
diabetes.
RESULTS: Predicted life expectancy for patients with diabetes and without 
diabetes demonstrated an inverted U shape across most BMI classifications, with 
highest life expectancy being for the overweight. Lifetime health care 
expenditures were higher for whites than blacks and for females than males. 
Using U.S. adults aged 50 years as an example, we found that diabetic white 
females with a BMI >40 kg/m(2) had 17.9 remaining life years and lifetime health 
expenditures of $185,609, whereas diabetic white females with normal weight had 
22.2 remaining life years and lifetime health expenditures of $183,704.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that diabetes is associated with large decreases 
in life expectancy and large increases in lifetime health care expenditures. In 
addition to decreasing life expectancy by 3.3 to 18.7 years, diabetes increased 
lifetime health care expenditures by $8,946 to $159,380 depending on 
age-race-sex-BMI classification groups.

© 2015 by the American Diabetes Association. Readers may use this article as 
long as the work is properly cited, the use is educational and not for profit, 
and the work is not altered.

DOI: 10.2337/dc14-1453
PMCID: PMC4338508
PMID: 25552420 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


333. Health Informatics J. 2016 Jun;22(2):397-405. doi: 10.1177/1460458214562287.
 Epub 2014 Dec 31.

Interprofessional, simulation-based technology-enhanced learning to improve 
physical healthcare in psychiatry: The RAMPPS course.

Akroyd M(1), Jordan G(2), Rowlands P(3).

Author information:
(1)Derbyshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, UK mike.akroyd@derbyshcft.nhs.uk.
(2)Leeds Metropolitan University, UK; Leeds Beckett University, UK.
(3)Derbyshire Healthcare NHS Foundation Trust, UK.

People with serious mental illness have reduced life expectancy compared with a 
control population, much of which is accounted for by significant physical 
comorbidity. Frontline clinical staff in mental health often lack confidence in 
recognition, assessment and management of such 'medical' problems. Simulation 
provides one way for staff to practise these skills in a safe setting. We 
produced a multidisciplinary simulation course around recognition and assessment 
of medical problems in psychiatric settings. We describe an audit of strategic 
and design aspects of the recognition and assessment of medical problems in 
psychiatric settings, using the Department of Health's 'Framework for Technology 
Enhanced Learning' as our audit standards. At the same time, as highlighting 
areas where recognition and assessment of medical problems in psychiatric 
settings adheres to these identified principles, such as the strategic 
underpinning of the approach, and the means by which information is collected, 
reviewed and shared, it also helps us to identify areas where we can improve.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/1460458214562287
PMID: 25552481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


334. Public Health Rep. 2015 Jan-Feb;130(1):71-80. doi:
10.1177/003335491513000109.

Disparities in life expectancy of pacific northwest American Indians and Alaska 
natives: analysis of linkage-corrected life tables.

Dankovchik J(1), Hoopes MJ(1), Warren-Mears V(2), Knaster E(3).

Author information:
(1)Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board, Improving Data & Enhancing 
Access Project, Portland, OR.
(2)Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board, Improving Data & Enhancing 
Access Project, Portland, OR ; Northwest Portland Area Indian Health Board, 
Northwest Tribal Epidemiology Center, Portland, OR.
(3)Seattle Indian Health Board, Urban Indian Health Institute, Seattle, WA.

OBJECTIVES: American Indians and Alaska Natives (AI/ANs) experience a high 
burden of mortality and other disparities compared with the general population. 
Life tables are an important population health indicator; however, federal 
agencies have not produced life tables for AI/ANs, largely due to racial 
misclassification on death certificates. Our objective was to correct this 
misclassification and create life tables for AI/ANs who resided in the Pacific 
Northwest region of the U.S., making comparisons with the general population.
METHODS: To correct racial misclassification, we conducted probabilistic record 
linkages between death certificates from three Northwest states-Idaho, Oregon, 
and Washington State-issued during 2008-2010, and AI/AN patient registration 
records. We calculated mortality rates and generated period life tables for 
AI/ANs and non-Hispanic white (NHW) Americans.
RESULTS: Overall life expectancy at birth for Northwest AI/ANs was 72.8 years, 
which was 6.9 years lower than that of NHW Americans. Male AI/ANs had a lower 
life expectancy (70.9 years) than female AI/ANs (74.6 years). The disparity in 
life expectancy between AI/ANs and their NHW counterparts was higher for females 
(with AI/ANs living 7.3 years fewer than NHW females) than for males (with 
AI/ANs living 6.7 years fewer than NHW males). The greatest disparity in 
mortality rates was seen among young adults.
CONCLUSION: Data linkage with a registry of known AI/ANs allowed us to generate 
accurate life tables that had not previously been available for this population 
and revealed disparities in both life expectancy at birth and survival across 
the life span. These results represent an important tool to help AI/AN 
communities as they monitor their health and promote efforts to eliminate health 
disparities.

DOI: 10.1177/003335491513000109
PMCID: PMC4245288
PMID: 25552757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


335. Bull World Health Organ. 2014 Dec 1;92(12):858-67. doi:
10.2471/BLT.14.137315.  Epub 2014 Sep 24.

Peri-operative pulse oximetry in low-income countries: a cost-effectiveness 
analysis.

Burn SL(1), Chilton PJ(1), Gawande AA(2), Lilford RJ(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Population Sciences, University of Birmingham, 
Edgbaston, Birmingham B15 2TT, England .
(2)Ariadne Labs at Brigham and Women's Hospital and the Harvard School of Public 
Health, Boston, United States of America .
(3)Warwick Medical School, University of Warwick, Coventry, England .

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of pulse oximetry--compared with 
no peri-operative monitoring--during surgery in low-income countries.
METHODS: We considered the use of tabletop and portable, hand-held pulse 
oximeters among patients of any age undergoing major surgery in low-income 
countries. From earlier studies we obtained baseline mortality and the 
effectiveness of pulse oximeters to reduce mortality. We considered the direct 
costs of purchasing and maintaining pulse oximeters as well as the cost of 
supplementary oxygen used to treat hypoxic episodes identified by oximetry. 
Health benefits were measured in disability-adjusted life-years (DALYs) averted 
and benefits and costs were both discounted at 3% per year. We used recommended 
cost-effectiveness thresholds--both absolute and relative to gross domestic 
product (GDP) per capita--to assess if pulse oximetry is a cost-effective health 
intervention. To test the robustness of our results we performed sensitivity 
analyses.
FINDINGS: In 2013 prices, tabletop and hand-held oximeters were found to have 
annual costs of 310 and 95 United States dollars (US$), respectively. Assuming 
the two types of oximeter have identical effectiveness, a single oximeter used 
for 22 procedures per week averted 0.83 DALYs per annum. The tabletop and 
hand-held oximeters cost US$ 374 and US$ 115 per DALY averted, respectively. For 
any country with a GDP per capita above US$ 677 the hand-held oximeter was found 
to be cost-effective if it prevented just 1.7% of anaesthetic-related deaths or 
0.3% of peri-operative mortality.
CONCLUSION: Pulse oximetry is a cost-effective intervention for low-income 
settings.

Publisher: OBJECTIF: Évaluer la rentabilité de l'oxymétrie de pouls par rapport 
à l'absence de surveillance périopératoire lors d'une chirurgie dans les pays à 
revenu faible.
MÉTHODES: Nous avons considéré l'utilisation d'oxymètres de pouls à poser et 
d'oxymètres de pouls portatifs chez des patients de tous âges ayant subi une 
opération chirurgicale importante dans des pays à revenu faible. À partir 
d'études antérieures, nous avons obtenu la mortalité de référence et 
l'efficacité des oxymètres de pouls pour réduire la mortalité. Nous avons 
considéré les coûts directs de l'achat et de l'entretien des oxymètres de pouls, 
ainsi que le coût de l'oxygène supplémentaire utilisé pour traiter les épisodes 
hypoxiques identifiés par oxymétrie. Les avantages pour la santé ont été mesurés 
en espérance de vie corrigée de l'incapacité (EVCI) évitée, et les avantages et 
les coûts ont été actualisés à 3% par an. Nous avons utilisé les seuils de 
rentabilité recommandés – à la fois de manière absolue et relative par rapport 
au produit intérieur brut (PIB) par habitant – afin d'évaluer si l'oxymétrie de 
pouls était une intervention de santé rentable. Pour tester la solidité de nos 
résultats, nous avons effectué des analyses de sensibilité.
RÉSULTATS: Avec les prix de 2013, les oxymètres à poser et les oxymètres 
portatifs présentaient des coûts annuels de 310 et 95 dollars, respectivement. 
En supposant que les deux types d'oxymètre ont une efficacité identique, un seul 
oxymètre utilisé pour 22 interventions par semaine permettait d'éviter 0,83 EVCI 
par an. Les oxymètres à poser et les oxymètres portatifs coûtaient 374 $ et 
115 $ par EVCI évitée, respectivement. Pour tous les pays avec un PIB par 
habitant supérieur à 677 $, l'oxymètre portatif s'est avéré rentable s'il 
évitait seulement 1,7% des décès liés à l'anesthésie ou 0,3% de mortalité 
périopératoire.
CONCLUSION: L'oxymétrie de pouls est une intervention rentable pour les pays à 
faible revenu.

Publisher: OBJETIVO: Evaluar la rentabilidad de la oximetría de pulso en 
comparación con la ausencia de vigilancia perioperatoria durante la cirugía en 
países de ingresos bajos.
MÉTODOS: Se tuvieron en cuenta oxímetros de pulso manuales, tanto de mesa como 
portátiles, entre los pacientes de todas las edades sometidos a una intervención 
quirúrgica importante en países de ingresos bajos. A partir de los estudios 
anteriores se obtuvo la mortalidad inicial y la eficacia de los oxímetros de 
pulso para reducir la mortalidad. Se consideraron los costes directos de la 
adquisición y del mantenimiento de los oxímetros de pulso, así como el coste del 
oxígeno complementario que se utiliza para tratar los episodios de hipoxia 
identificados mediante la oximetría. Se midieron los beneficios para la salud en 
años de vida con discapacidad (AVAD) evitados, mientras que los beneficios y los 
costes se descontaron al 3% por año. Utilizamos los umbrales de rentabilidad 
recomendados, tanto absolutos como relativos, respecto al producto interno bruto 
(PIB) per cápita para evaluar si la oximetría de pulso es una intervención de 
salud rentable. Por último, se realizó un análisis de sensibilidad para poner a 
prueba la solidez de los resultados.
RESULTADOS: En 2013, se halló que los precios de los oxímetros de mesa y 
portátiles suponían unos costes anuales de 310 y 95 dólares estadounidenses 
(US$), respectivamente. En el supuesto de que ambos tipos de oxímetro tengan la 
misma eficacia, el uso de un único oxímetro para 22 procedimientos por semana 
evitó 0,83 AVAD por año. Los oxímetros de mesa y manuales cuestan 374 US$ y 115 
US$ por AVAD evitado, respectivamente. Para cualquier país con un PIB per cápita 
superior a 677 US$ el oxímetro manual resultó ser rentable con tan solo impedir 
un 1,7% de las muertes relacionadas con la anestesia o el 0,3% de la mortalidad 
perioperatoria.
CONCLUSIÓN: La oximetría de pulso es una intervención rentable para entornos de 
ingresos bajos.

Publisher: الغرض: تقدير مردودية قياس التأكسج النبضي - مقارنة بعدم الرصد في 
الفترة المحيطة بالعملية - أثناء الجراحة في البلدان المنخفضة الدخل.
الطريقة: قمنا بدراسة استخدام أجهزة قياس التأكسج النبضي التي توضع على أسطح 
الطاولات والقابلة للنقل والمحمولة باليد بين المرضى الذين ينتمون إلى أي فئة عمرية 
وخضعوا لجراحة كبرى في البلدان المنخفضة الدخل. وحصلنا من الدراسات السابقة على 
معدل الوفيات عند خط الأساس وفعالية أجهزة قياس التأكسج النبضي في تقليل معدل 
الوفيات. ودرسنا التكاليف المباشرة لشراء أجهزة قياس التأكسج النبضي وصيانتها 
بالإضافة إلى تكلفة الأوكسجين التكميلي الذي يستخدم لعلاج نوبات نقص الأوكسجين التي 
يحددها قياس التأكسج. وتم قياس الفوائد الصحية بسنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد 
العجز التي تم تفاديها والفوائد وتم خفض التكاليف في كل منها بنسبة 3 % سنوياً. 
واستخدمنا عتبات المردودية الموصى بها - المطلقة والنسبية للناتج الإجمالي المحلي 
للفرد - لتقييم ما إذا كان قياس التأكسج النبضي تدخلاً صحياً ذا مردودية. ولاختبار 
قوة نتائجنا، نفذنا تحليلات الحساسية.
النتائج: تبين وفق أسعار 2013 أن التكاليف السنوية لأجهزة قياس التأكسج التي توضع 
على أسطح الطاولات والمحمولة باليد تبلغ 310 و95 دولاراً أمريكياً، على التوالي. 
وبافتراض تطابق المردودية لنوعي أجهزة قياس التأكسج، يؤدي جهاز قياس التأكسج الواحد 
الذي يستخدم في 22 عملية أسبوعياً إلى تفادي 0.83 سنة من سنوات العمر المصححة 
باحتساب مدد العجز سنوياً. وتبلغ تكلفة أجهزة قياس التأكسج التي توضع على أسطح 
الطاولات والمحمولة باليد 374 دولاراً أمريكياً و115 دولاراً أمريكياً لكل سنة تم 
تفاديها من سنوات العمر المصححة باحتساب مدد العجز، على التوالي. وبالنسبة لأي بلد 
يزيد الناتج الإجمالي المحلي للفرد فيه عن 677 دولاراً أمريكياً، تبين أن جهاز قياس 
التأكسج المحمول باليد يكون ذا مردودية في حالة توقي 1.7 % فقط من حالات الوفاة ذات 
الصلة بالتخدير أو 0.3 % من معدل الوفيات في الفترة المحيطة بالعملية.
الاستنتاج: يعتبر قياس التأكسج النبضي تدخلاً ذا مردودية في المناطق منخفضة الدخل.

Publisher: 目的: 评估低收入国家中手术过程脉搏血氧测量与无围术期监测相比的成本效益。
方法: 
我们考虑低收入国家在任何年龄病人接受大手术中对台式和便携式手持脉搏血氧测量仪的使用情况。我们从早期的研究中得到基线死亡率和脉搏血氧测量仪降低死亡率的有效性。我们考虑购买和维护脉搏血氧测量仪的直接成本以及用于治疗由血氧测量确定的间歇低氧发作的补充氧气的成本。以避免的伤残调整生命年(DALY)测量健康益处,收益和成本每年都折减3%。我们使用推荐的成本效益阈值(绝对值以及与人均国内生产总值(GDP)对比的相对值)评估脉搏血氧测量仪是否是具有成本效益的健康干预。我们执行敏感性分析来测试结果的稳健性。
结果: 
以2013年的价格计算,台式和手持血氧测量仪年度成本分别为310和95美元。假设这两种类型的血氧测量仪具有相同的效果,单个血氧测量仪每周用于22台手术过程,每年可避免0.83个DALY。台式和手持血氧测量仪避免一个DALY的成本分别为374和115美元。研究发现,对于任何人均国内生产总值超过677美元的国家,手持血氧测量仪仅避免1.7%的麻醉相关死亡或0.3%的围手术期死亡率就具有成本效益。
结论: 低收入的环境中,脉搏血氧测量是一种经济有效的干预措施。

Publisher: ЦЕЛЬ: Оценить экономическую эффективность пульсоксиметрии — в 
сравнении с отсутствием периоперационного мониторинга — при проведении операций 
в странах с низким уровнем доходов.
МЕТОДЫ: Было рассмотрено использование как настольных, так и портативных ручных 
пульсоксиметров среди пациентов любого возраста, перенесших обширное опреативное 
вмешательство, в странах с низким уровнем доходов. Данные об исходном уровне 
смертности и эффективности пульсоксиметров для снижения смертности были получены 
из предыдущих исследований. Учитывались прямые затраты на приобретение и 
обслуживание пульсоксиметров, а также стоимость дополнительного кислорода, 
используемого для устранения эпизодов гипоксии, выявленных с помощью оксиметрии. 
Полезность для здоровья определялась спасенными годами жизни, скорректированными 
на инвалидность (индекс DALY), при этом полученные значения полезности и затрат 
снижались на 3% в год. Были использованы рекомендованные пороговые значения 
показателя «затраты-эффективность» — как абсолютные, так и относительные, с 
учетом валового внутреннего продукта (ВВП) на душу населения — для оценки того, 
является ли пульсоксиметрия экономически эффективной лечебной мерой. Чтобы 
проверить надежность полученных результатов, был проведен анализ 
чувствительности.
РЕЗУЛЬТАТЫ: Было установлено, что в ценах 2013 года годовые затраты на 
использование настольных и ручных оксиметров составили 310 и 95 долларов США 
соответственно. Если предположить, что два типа оксиметров имеют одинаковую 
эффективность, то один оксиметр, применяемый для 22 процедур в неделю, спас 0,83 
DALY за год. Стоимость настольного и ручного оксиметра на спасенный DALY 
составила 374 и 115 долларов США соответственно. Для любой страны с ВВП на душу 
населения свыше 677 долларов США использование ручного оксиметра оказалось 
экономически эффективным, если он позволял предотвращать как минимум 1,7% 
анестезиологических или 0,3% периоперационных смертей.
ВЫВОД: Пульсоксиметрия является экономически эффективной лечебной мерой для 
стран с низким уровнем доходов.

DOI: 10.2471/BLT.14.137315
PMCID: PMC4264392
PMID: 25552770 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


336. Front Biosci (Landmark Ed). 2015 Jan 1;20(2):198-228. doi: 10.2741/4305.

Mitochondrial bioenergetics and disease in Caenorhabditis elegans.

Dancy BM(1), Sedensky MM(1), Morgan PG(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for Developmental Therapeutics, Seattle Children's Research Institute, 
1900 Ninth Ave, Seattle, WA, USA,2 Department of Anesthesiology and Pain 
Medicine, University of Washington, 1959 NE Pacific St, Seattle, WA, USA.

Simple multicellular animal model systems are central to studying the complex 
mechanisms underlying a bewildering array of diseases involving dysfunctional 
mitochondria. Mutant nuclear- and mitochondrial-encoded subunits of the 
Caenorhabditis elegans mitochondrial respiratory chain (MRC) have been 
investigated, including GAS-1, NUO-1, NUO-6, MEV-1, SDHB-1, CLK-1, ISP-1, CTB-1, 
and ATP-2. These, as well as proteins that modify the MRC indirectly, have been 
studied on the molecular, cellular, and organismal levels through the variety of 
experimental approaches that are readily achievable in C. elegans. In C. 
elegans, MRC dysfunction can mimic signs and symptoms observed in human patients 
with primary mitochondrial disorders, such as neuromuscular deficits, 
developmental delay, altered anesthetic sensitivity, and increased lactate 
levels. Antioxidant dietary supplements, coenzyme Q substitutes, and flavin 
cofactors have been explored as potential therapeutic strategies. Furthermore, 
mutants with altered longevity have proved useful for probing the contributions 
of bioenergetics, reactive oxygen species, and stress responses to the process 
of aging. C. elegans will undoubtedly continue to provide a useful system in 
which to explore unanswered questions in mitochondrial biology and disease.

DOI: 10.2741/4305
PMID: 25553447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


337. Int Rev Psychiatry. 2014 Dec;26(6):638-47. doi:
10.3109/09540261.2014.969689.

Treating complexity: collaborative care for multiple chronic conditions.

Chwastiak L(1), Vanderlip E, Katon W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington 
School of Medicine , Seattle, Washington , USA.

Individuals with co-morbid chronic medical illness and psychiatric illness are a 
costly and complex patient population, at high risk for poor outcomes. 
Health-risk behaviours (e.g. smoking, poor diet, and sedentary lifestyle), side 
effects from psychiatric medications, and poor quality medical care all 
contribute to poor outcomes. Individuals with major depression die, on average, 
5 to 10 years before their age-matched counterparts. For individuals with severe 
mental illness such as bipolar disorder or schizophrenia, life expectancy may be 
up to 20 years shorter. As the majority of this premature mortality is due to 
cardiovascular disease, there is a critical need to engage these individuals 
around the care of chronic medical illness.

DOI: 10.3109/09540261.2014.969689
PMID: 25553781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


338. Cancer Epidemiol. 2015 Feb;39(1):126-32. doi: 10.1016/j.canep.2014.12.004.
Epub  2014 Dec 30.

Comparison of expected health impacts for major cancers: integration of 
incidence rate and loss of quality-adjusted life expectancy.

Hung MC(1), Lai WW(2), Chen HH(3), Su WC(4), Wang JD(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, National Cheng Kung University College of 
Medicine, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(2)Department of Surgery, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, College of 
Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(4)Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng Kung University Hospital, 
College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, Tainan 704, Taiwan.
(5)Department of Public Health, National Cheng Kung University College of 
Medicine, Tainan 704, Taiwan; Department of Internal Medicine, National Cheng 
Kung University Hospital, College of Medicine, National Cheng Kung University, 
Tainan 704, Taiwan; Department of Occupational and Environmental Medicine, 
National Cheng Kung University Hospital, Tainan 704, Taiwan. Electronic address: 
jdwang121@gmail.com.

PURPOSE: The study aims to quantify the expected impacts of different cancers 
through multiplying the incidence rate by loss-of-QALE (quality-adjusted life 
expectancy), with QALY (quality-adjusted life year) as the common unit, to aid 
prevention policy decisions.
METHODS: 464,722 patients with pathologically verified cancer registered in the 
Taiwan Cancer Registry during 1998-2009 were used to estimate lifetime survival 
through Kaplan-Meier estimation combined with a semi-parametric method. A 
convenience sample for measuring the utility value with EQ-5D was conducted with 
11,453 cancer patients, with the results then multiplied by the survival 
functions to estimate QALE. The loss-of-QALE was calculated by subtracting the 
QALE of each cancer cohort from the life expectancy of the corresponding age- 
and gender-matched reference population. The cumulative incidence rates from age 
20 to 79 (CIR₂₀₋₇₉) were calculated to estimate the lifetime risk of cancer for 
each organ-system.
RESULTS: Liver and lung cancer were found the highest expected lifetime health 
impacts in males and females, or expected lifetime losses of 0.97 and 0.41 QALYs 
that could be averted, respectively. While the priority changes for prevention 
based on expected health impacts were slightly different for females based on 
standardized mortality rates, those of males involve a broader spectrum, 
including oral, colorectal, esophageal and stomach cancer.
CONCLUSION: The integration of incidence rate with loss-of-QALE could be used to 
represent the expected losses that could be averted by prevention, which may be 
useful in prioritizing strategies for cancer control.

Copyright © 2014 The Authors. Published by Elsevier Ltd.. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.canep.2014.12.004
PMID: 25553846 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


339. Arch Bronconeumol. 2015 Aug;51(8):396-402. doi:
10.1016/j.arbres.2014.10.007.  Epub 2014 Dec 29.

The role of pulmonology in the National Health System Chronicity Strategy.

[Article in English, Spanish]

Soler-Cataluña JJ(1), Sánchez Toril F(2), Aguar Benito MC(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de neumología, Hospital Arnau de Vilanova, Valencia, España; CIBER 
de Enfermedades Respiratorias (CIBERES), España. Electronic address: 
jjsoler@telefonica.net.
(2)Servicio de neumología, Hospital Arnau de Vilanova, Valencia, España.

Comment in
    Arch Bronconeumol. 2015 Aug;51(8):369-70.

Longer life expectancy and the progressive aging of the population is changing 
the epidemiological pattern of healthcare, with a reduction in the incidence of 
acute diseases and a marked increase in chronic diseases. This change brings 
important social, healthcare and economic consequences that call for a 
reorganization of patient care. In this respect, the Spanish National Health 
System has developed a Chronicity strategy that proposes a substantial change in 
focus from traditional rescue medicine to patient- and environment-centered 
care, with a planned, proactive, participative and multidisciplinary approach. 
Some of the more common chronic diseases are respiratory. In COPD, this 
integrated approach has been effective in reducing exacerbations, improving 
quality of life, and even reducing costs. However, the wide variety of 
management strategies, not only in COPD but also in asthma and other respiratory 
diseases, makes it difficult to draw definitive conclusions. Pulmonologists can 
and must participate in the new chronicity models and contribute their 
knowledge, experience, innovation, research, and special expertise to the 
development of these new paradigms.

Copyright © 2014 SEPAR. Published by Elsevier Espana. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arbres.2014.10.007
PMID: 25554457 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


340. BMC Med Res Methodol. 2015 Jan 2;15:1. doi: 10.1186/1471-2288-15-1.

Assessing the validity of the Global Activity Limitation Indicator in fourteen 
European countries.

Berger N, Van Oyen H(1), Cambois E, Fouweather T, Jagger C, Nusselder W, Robine 
JM.

Author information:
(1)Public Health and Surveillance, Scientific Institute of Public Health, Rue 
Juliette Wytsmanstraat 14, 1050 Brussels, Belgium. hvanoyen@wiv-isp.be.

BACKGROUND: The Global Activity Limitation Indicator (GALI), the measure 
underlying the European indicator Healthy Life Years (HLY), is widely used to 
compare population health across countries. However, the comparability of the 
item has been questioned. This study aims to further validate the GALI in the 
adult European population.
METHODS: Data from the European Health Interview Survey (EHIS), covering 14 
European countries and 152,787 individuals, were used to explore how the GALI 
was associated with other measures of disability and whether the GALI was 
consistent or reflected different disability situations in different countries.
RESULTS: When considering each country separately or all combined, we found that 
the GALI was significantly associated with measures of activities of daily 
living, instrumental activity of daily living, and functional limitations 
(P < 0.001 in all cases). Associations were largest for activity of daily living 
and lowest though still high for functional limitations. For each measure, the 
magnitude of the association was similar across most countries. Overall, 
however, the GALI differed significantly between countries in terms of how it 
reflected each of the three disability measures (P < 0.001 in all cases). We 
suspect cross-country differences in the results may be due to variations in: 
the implementation of the EHIS, the perception of functioning and limitations, 
and the understanding of the GALI question.
CONCLUSION: The study both confirms the relevance of this indicator to measure 
general activity limitations in the European population and the need for caution 
when comparing the level of the GALI from one country to another.

DOI: 10.1186/1471-2288-15-1
PMCID: PMC4298058
PMID: 25555466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


341. Reprod Health Matters. 2014 Nov;22(44):202-12. doi: 
10.1016/S0968-8080(14)44806-7.

Gender inequality in Russia: the perspective of participatory gender budgeting.

Zakirova V(1).

Author information:
(1)Partnership Development Officer, Food and Agriculture Organization of the 
United Nations, Budapest, Hungary. Electronic address: venera1108@yahoo.com.

Gender-based discrimination is found in all economies in the world. Women's 
unpaid work accounts for about half of the world GDP, yet women remain 
under-valued and under-represented in national policies worldwide. The question 
of gender budgeting and citizens' participation in budgeting and governance 
processes has gained attention in recent years, but Russia is far from 
implementing these. Instead, blindness to gender issues dominates in national 
strategies and budgets. This paper explores these issues and looks in-depth at 
them in the decentralisation process in Bashkortostan, a central Russian 
republic. Civil society institutions whose role is to strengthen the links 
between government, civil society and the community in Bashkortostan, such as 
Public Chambers and Municipalities, lack the capacity to introduce participatory 
gender budgeting. As a result, no systematic participatory planning, let alone 
planning that is gender-sensitive, has taken place there.

Copyright © 2014 Reproductive Health Matters. Published by Elsevier Ltd. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0968-8080(14)44806-7
PMID: 25555777 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


342. Eur Rev Med Pharmacol Sci. 2014;18(24):3810-8.

Thrombosis and risk factors in female patients with a rare acquired 
thrombophilia: chronic myeloproliferative disorder - polycythaemia vera and 
essential thrombocythaemia.

Pósfai É(1), Marton I, Kiss-László Z, Kotosz B, Széll M, Borbényi Z.

Author information:
(1)2nd Department of Internal Medicine, Albert Szent-Györgyi Clinical Centre, 
University of Szeged, Hungary. evaposfay@gmail.com.

OBJECTIVE: In polycythaemia vera (PV) and essential thrombocythaemia (ET), the 
life expectancy of the patients is greatly affected by thrombotic events. An 
investigation was performed of the potential association of PV/ET, and 
thrombotic complications with cardiovascular (CV) risk factors, a leukocyte 
count at the haematological diagnosis > 11.1 G/L, and the JAK2V617F mutation.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: In the period 1998-2011, 128 women with a median age of 62 
years were enrolled.
RESULTS: The risk of thrombotic events before the diagnosis was 32.8% (42/128), 
while in the follow-up period it was 10.2% (13/128). The difference in the 
probability of thrombosis-free survival between those with at most one CV risk 
factor and those with two or more CV risk factors was significant (p = 0.005). 
The presence of two or more CV risk factors (univariate: p = 0.011; 
multivariate: relative risk: 4.728, 95% CI 1.312-17.040; p = 0.018) 
significantly increased the risk of thrombosis. Univariate analyses revealed 
that high blood pressure (p = 0.001), hyperlipidaemia (p = 0.005) and cigarette 
smoking (p = 0.051) were associated with a significantly higher risk of 
thrombosis. Analyses of the influence of the leukocyte count (univariate: p = 
0.424; multivariate: relative risk: 1.407, 95% CI 0.359-5.507; p = 0.624) and 
the JAK2V617F mutation (univariate: p = 0.367; multivariate: relative risk: 
1.428, 95% CI 0.316-6.460; p = 0.643) on subsequent thrombotic complications 
resulted in a non-signicant tendency.
CONCLUSIONS: Female patients who display CV risk factors (high blood pressure, 
hyperlipidaemia and/or cigarette smoking) and PV or ET may well be at a higher 
risk of thrombotic events and require special consideration as concerns as the 
prevention and management of thrombotic events.

PMID: 25555871 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


343. Ceylon Med J. 2014 Dec;59(4):124-7. doi: 10.4038/cmj.v59i4.7864.

Outcome of retrograde ureteric stenting as a urinary drainage procedure in 
ureteric obstruction related to malignant lesions.

Wijayarathna S(1), Suvendran S, Ishak M, Weligamage A, Epa A, Munasinghe S, 
Abeygunaskera AM.

Author information:
(1)Departments of Urology,Colombo South Teaching Hospital, Colombo, Sri Lanka. 
ksuranganuwan@yahoo.com.

Comment in
    Ceylon Med J. 2015 Jun;60(2):75-6.
    Ceylon Med J. 2015 Jun;60(2):76.

OBJECTIVES: We investigated the outcome of endoscopic retrograde ureteric 
stenting (RUS) in patients with ureteric obstruction related to malignant 
lesions.
METHODS: Data were prospectively collected from patients with ureteric 
obstruction related to malignant lesions treated at a single urology unit from 1 
January 2011 to 30 April 2014. All patients had radiologically significant 
hydronephrosis by ultrasonography and CT scanning. First choice of urinary 
drainage was placing a retrograde ureteric stent cystoscopically. Outcome of 
patients who had stenting were recorded after following them until death or 
removal of stents.
RESULTS: Eighty two patients with ureteric obstruction related to malignant 
lesions had complete data. In 33 (25%) patients, retrograde ureteric stenting 
was possible. Fifteen of them had recurrent tumour in the pelvis at the time of 
stenting and 13 (87%) were dead within 3 months of stenting. Four of the five 
patients who did not have pelvic tumour recurrence were alive at the end of the 
study. All eight patients who underwent stenting before surgery as a 
prophylactic measure and three of the five patients who had retroperitoneal 
tumour mass and underwent RUS were alive. Stenting was not possible in 42 
patients. Thirty eight of them had pelvic tumour recurrences and two were having 
retroperitoneal tumour masses. Only one did not have tumour in the pelvis.CT 
evidence of tumour recurrence in the pelvis (OR 12.7; 95% CI 1.3-117.6; p=0.026) 
and high serum creatinine (OR 4.3; 95% CI 1.6-11.7; p=0.004) were associated 
with failure to ureteric stenting.
CONCLUSIONS: Chances of successful RUS were low in patients with ureteric 
obstruction in the presence of tumour recurrences or elevated serum creatinine. 
Even if ureteric stenting was successful, their life expectancy was short.

DOI: 10.4038/cmj.v59i4.7864
PMID: 25556408 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


344. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2014;15(23):10313-7. doi: 
10.7314/apjcp.2014.15.23.10313.

Years of potential life lost due to breast and cervical cancer: a challenge for 
Brazilian public policy.

Gravena AA(1), Brischiliari SC, Gil LM, Lopes TC, Demitto Mde O, Agnolo CM, 
Borghesan DH, Carvalho MD, Pelloso SM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Science, Faculty Post Graduate in Health Science, State 
University Maringa, Parana, Brazil E-mail : angela.gravena@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: The purpose of the article was to analyze the years of potential 
life lost (YPLL) of women who died from breast and cervical cancer in the State 
of Parana, Southern Brazil. This was a temporal trend study (2000 to 2010) about 
the coefficients of mortality and the years of potential life lost in women aged 
20 to 70 years.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Data were obtained through the database of the Department 
of the Unified Health System (DATASUS) and the National Mortality Information 
System.
RESULTS: There was a loss of 125.075 YPLL due to breast cancer, with an average 
