Treatment of Alzheimer's Disease.

Wright JW(1), Harding JW(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychology, Washington State University, Pullman, WA, USA 
Department of Integrative Physiology and Neuroscience, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA, USA Program in Biotechnology, Washington State 
University, Pullman, WA, USA M3 Biotechnology, Inc., Seattle, WA, USA.

Alzheimer's disease (AD) is a progressive neurodegenerative disease increasing 
in frequency as life expectancy of the world's population increases. There are 
an estimated 5 million diagnosed AD patients in the U.S. and 16 million 
worldwide with no adequate treatment presently available. New therapeutic 
approaches are needed to slow, and hopefully reverse, disease progression. This 
review summarizes available information regarding an overlooked therapeutic 
target that may offer a treatment to slow and hopefully halt AD, namely the 
hepatocyte growth factor (HGF)/c-Met receptor system. Activation of the c-Met 
receptor stimulates mitogenesis, motogenesis, morphogenesis, the ability to 
mediate stem cell differentiation and neurogenesis, and protects against tissue 
insults in a wide range of cells including neurons. This growth factor system 
has recently been shown to induce dendritic arborization and synaptogenesis when 
stimulated by a newly developed angiotensin-based analogue, 
N-hexanoic-Tyr-Ile-(6) amino hexanoic amide (Dihexa). This small molecule was 
derived from the pre-prototype molecule Nle1-angiotensin IV and has shown 
promise in facilitating the formation of new functional synaptic connections and 
augmenting memory consolidation in animal models of AD. Dihexa is a 
first-in-class compound that is orally active, penetrates the blood-brain 
barrier, and facilitates memory consolidation and retrieval. This 
angiotensin-based small molecule may be efficacious as a treatment for AD.

DOI: 10.3233/JAD-142814
PMID: 25649658 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


612. Plant J. 2015 Apr;82(1):25-40. doi: 10.1111/tpj.12786.

Mechanisms of growth and patterns of gene expression in oxygen-deprived rice 
coleoptiles.

Narsai R(1), Edwards JM, Roberts TH, Whelan J, Joss GH, Atwell BJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Botany, School of Life Science, La Trobe University, Melbourne, 
Victoria, 3086, Australia.

Coleoptiles of rice (Oryza sativa) seedlings grown under water commonly elongate 
by up to 1 mm h(-1) to reach the atmosphere. We initially analysed this highly 
specialized phenomenon by measuring epidermal cell lengths along the coleoptile 
axis to determine elongation rates. This revealed a cohort of cells in the basal 
zone that elongated rapidly following emergence from the embryo, reaching 200 μm 
within 12 h. After filming coleoptiles in vivo for a day, kinematic analysis was 
applied. Eight time-sliced 'segments' were defined by their emergence from the 
embryo at four-hourly intervals, revealing a mathematically simple growth model. 
Each segment entering the coleoptile from the embryo elongated at a constant 
velocity, resulting in accelerating growth for the entire organ. Consistent with 
the epidermal cell lengths, relative rates of elongation (mm mm(-1) h(-1)) were 
tenfold greater in the small, newly emerged basal segments than the older distal 
tip segments. This steep axial gradient defined two contrasting growth zones 
(bases versus tips) in which we measured ATP production and protein, RNA and DNA 
content, and analysed the global transcriptome under steady-state normoxia, 
hypoxia (3% O2) and anoxia. Determination of the transcriptome revealed 
tip-specific induction of genes encoding TCP [Teosinte Branched1 (Tb1) of maize, 
Cycloidea (Cyc), and Proliferating Cell Factor (Pcf)] transcription factors, RNA 
helicases, ribosomal proteins and proteins involved in protein folding, whilst 
expression of F-box domain-containing proteins in the ubiquitin E3-SCF complex 
(Skp, Cullin, F-box containing complex) was induced specifically in bases under 
low oxygen conditions. We ascribed the sustained elongation under hypoxia to 
hypoxia-specific responses such as controlled suppression of photosystem 
components and induction of RNA binding/splicing functions, indicating 
preferential allocation of energy to cell extension.

© 2015 The Authors The Plant Journal © 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/tpj.12786
PMID: 25650041 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


613. J Gen Intern Med. 2015 Mar;30(3):267-8. doi: 10.1007/s11606-014-3167-4.

When life span exceeds health span.

Srinivasan M(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California Davis School of Medicine, 4150 V. Street, Suite 
2400, Sacramento, CA, 95833, USA, malathi@ucdavis.edu.

DOI: 10.1007/s11606-014-3167-4
PMCID: PMC4351270
PMID: 25650258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


614. Biogerontology. 2015 Jun;16(3):375-81. doi: 10.1007/s10522-015-9555-2. Epub
2015  Feb 4.

A solution to debates over the behavior of mortality at old ages.

Weon BM(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Advanced Materials Science and Engineering, SKKU Advanced Institute 
of Nanotechnology (SAINT), Sungkyunkwan University, Suwon, 440-746, Korea, 
bmweon@skku.edu.

As humans live longer, the precise modeling of mortality curves in very old age 
is becoming more important in aging research and public health. Here, we address 
a methodology that utilizes a modified stretched exponential survival function 
where a stretched exponent is relevant to heterogeneity in human populations. 
This function allows better estimation of the maximum human lifespan by 
providing a good description of the mortality curves in very old age. 
Demographic analysis of Swedish females over three recent decades revealed an 
important trend: the maximum human lifespan (existing around 125 years) 
gradually decreased at a constant rate of ~1.6 years per decade, while the 
characteristic life gradually increased at a constant rate of ~1.2 years per 
decade. This trend indicates that the number of aging people is increasingly 
concentrated at very old age, which is consistent with the definition of 
population aging. Importantly analyzing the stretched exponents would help in 
evaluating the heterogeneity trends in human populations.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-015-9555-2
PMID: 25650286 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


615. Int J Public Health. 2015 Mar;60(3):363-73. doi: 10.1007/s00038-015-0658-y.
Epub  2015 Feb 4.

Longitudinal trends in good self-rated health: effects of age and birth cohort 
in a 25-year follow-up study in Sweden.

Johansson SE(1), Midlöv P, Sundquist J, Sundquist K, Calling S.

Author information:
(1)Department of Clinical Sciences in Malmö, Center for Primary Health Care 
Research, Lund University, Malmö, Sweden.

OBJECTIVES: Although average life expectancy has increased considerably in 
Sweden, there is less evidence for improved self-rated health (SRH). We analyzed 
longitudinal trends in SRH between 1980/1981 and 2004/2005 in age and birth 
cohort subgroups.
METHODS: 2,728 males and 2,770 females, aged 16-71 years, were interviewed every 
eighth year. Mixed models with random intercepts were used to estimate changes 
in SRH within different age groups and birth cohorts, adjusting for potential 
confounders.
RESULTS: During the 25-year follow-up, SRH improved in individuals aged ≥48 
years, but became poorer or was unchanged in those aged 16-47 years. All birth 
cohorts showed poorer SRH with increasing age, with an adjusted odds ratio (95% 
confidence interval) of 0.94 (0.93-0.95) in males and 0.92 (0.91-0.93) in 
females.
CONCLUSIONS: While SRH in the older age groups improved, SRH became poorer in 
the youngest. Poorer SRH is deeply worrying for the affected individuals, and 
may also have a negative impact on the health care system. Although mental 
illness, socioeconomic factors, and lifestyle may be potential mechanisms, 
future studies are needed to investigate the reasons behind this trend.

DOI: 10.1007/s00038-015-0658-y
PMID: 25650292 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


616. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2015 Apr;13(2):167-79. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-015-0152-y.

Cost-effectiveness and value of information analysis of nutritional support for 
preventing pressure ulcers in high-risk patients: implement now, research later.

Tuffaha HW(1), Roberts S, Chaboyer W, Gordon LG, Scuffham PA.

Author information:
(1)Griffith Health Institute, Griffith University, Gold Coast, QLD, Australia, 
haitham.tuffaha@griffith.edu.au.

BACKGROUND: Pressure ulcers are a major cause of mortality, morbidity, and 
increased healthcare cost. Nutritional support may reduce the incidence of 
pressure ulcers in hospitalised patients who are at risk of pressure ulcer and 
malnutrition.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of nutritional support in 
preventing pressure ulcers in high-risk hospitalised patients, and to assess the 
value of further research to inform the decision to implement this intervention 
using value of information analysis (VOI).
METHODS: The analysis was from the perspective of Queensland Health, Australia 
using a decision model with evidence derived from a systematic review and 
meta-analysis. Resources were valued using 2014 prices and the time horizon of 
the analysis was one year. Monte Carlo simulation was used to estimate net 
monetary benefits (NB) and to calculate VOI measures.
RESULTS: Compared with standard hospital diet, nutritional support was cost 
saving at AU$425 per patient, and more effective with an average 0.005 
quality-adjusted life years (QALY) gained. At a willingness-to-pay of AU$50,000 
per QALY, the incremental NB was AU$675 per patient, with a probability of 87 % 
that nutritional support is cost-effective. The expected value of perfect 
information was AU$5 million and the expected value of perfect parameter 
information was highest for the relative risk of developing a pressure ulcer at 
AU$2.5 million. For a future trial investigating the relative effectiveness of 
the interventions, the expected net benefit of research would be maximised at 
AU$100,000 with 1,200 patients in each arm if nutritional support was perfectly 
implemented. The opportunity cost of withholding the decision to implement the 
intervention until the results of the future study are available would be AU$14 
million.
CONCLUSIONS: Nutritional support is cost-effective in preventing pressure ulcers 
in high-risk hospitalised patients compared with standard diet. Future research 
to reduce decision uncertainty is worthwhile; however, given the opportunity 
losses associated with delaying the implementation, "implement and research" is 
the approach recommended for this intervention.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-015-0152-y
PMID: 25650349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


617. Res Aging. 2014 Mar;36(2):244-66. doi: 10.1177/0164027513482948. Epub 2013
Mar  29.

Family, frailty, and fatal futures? Own-health and family-health predictors of 
subjective life expectancy.

Zick CD(1), Smith KR(2), Mayer RN(3), Taylor LB(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Consumer Studies, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, UT, USA zick@fcs.utah.edu.
(2)Department of Family and Consumer Studies, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, UT, USA Huntsman Cancer Institute, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, 
USA.
(3)Department of Family and Consumer Studies, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, UT, USA.

Subjective life expectancy is a powerful predictor of a variety of health and 
economic behaviors. This research expands upon the life expectancy literature by 
examining the influence of familial health histories. Using a 
genetic/environmental model, we hypothesize that individuals' assessments of 
their life expectancies will be linked to the health of first-degree and 
second-degree relatives, with same-sex relatives' health exercising a stronger 
effect than that of opposite-sex relatives. Multivariate analyses based on data 
from a 2009 survey merged with familial health records (N = 1,019) confirm that 
the health experiences of same-sex, first-degree relatives are linked to 
respondents' subjective life expectancy. The relationship between the health 
experiences of second-degree relatives and subjective life expectancy is much 
less pronounced. These findings have the potential not only to inform our 
understanding of health behaviors but also to encourage communication between 
patients and health professionals aimed at promoting preventative behaviors.

© The Author(s) 2013.

DOI: 10.1177/0164027513482948
PMID: 25650691 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


618. Acta Chir Orthop Traumatol Cech. 2014;81(6):365-70.

Surgical management and outcome of skeletal metastatic disease of the humerus.

Schwabe P(1), Ruppert M, Tsitsilonis S, Melcher I, Schaser KD, Märdian S.

Author information:
(1)Center for Musculoskeletal Surgery, Charité - University Medicine Berlin, 
Germany.

PURPOSE OF THE STUDY Evaluation of outcome after surgical treatment of humerus 
metastases with a focus on tumour and patient derived factors, timing and 
strategy of intervention, surgical outcome and complications. MATERIAL AND 
METHODS Sixty-fie patients with a mean age of 64.3 years (range 25-89) with 66 
metastases of the humerus were surgically treated in a 7-year time-period and 
retrospectively reviewed. RESULTS Renal cell carcinoma and breast cancer were 
the most abundant types of primary tumour. The mean time from diagnosis of 
primary tumour to fist metastasis was 14.5 months (range 0-173). The mean time 
from diagnosis of metastasis to surgery was 21.4 months (range 0-173). 38/28 
intramedullary nails/locking plates were used for 58/8 manifest/impending 
pathological fractures. Mean cumulative survival was 16.3 months and implant 
failure rate was 6.1% with a mean time from initial surgery to revision of 
22.2-20.6 months. CONCLUSIONS Our data indicate that treatment with 
intramedullary fiation or cement augmented plate osteosynthesis is successful 
for the vast majority of patients, but thorough clinical evaluation and precise 
decision making adapted to the patient's estimated life expectancy must be 
applied to avoid overtreatment or risk of implant failure. Key words: bone 
metastases, skeletal metastatic disease, humerus metastasis, pathologic 
fracture, impending fracture.

PMID: 25651290 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


619. Res Aging. 2014 Nov;36(6):753-77. doi: 10.1177/0164027513519449. Epub 2014
Jan  17.

To stop or not to stop: an empirical assessment of the determinants of early 
retirement among active and retired senior teachers.

Van Droogenbroeck F(1), Spruyt B(2).

Author information:
(1)Sociology Department, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussel, Belgium 
filip.van.droogenbroeck@vub.ac.be.
(2)Sociology Department, Vrije Universiteit Brussel, Brussel, Belgium.

While the official retirement age for most Organization for Economic 
Co-operation and Development (OECD) countries is 65 years, the average employee 
in the majority of OECD countries retires considerably earlier. With the coming 
retirement of the baby boom generation, increasing life expectancy, and budget 
restrictions due to the financial crisis, most countries want to motivate 
employees to work longer. For these reasons, studying early retirement is highly 
relevant. In this article, we examine the determinants of early retirement among 
working and retired senior teachers between 45 and 65 years old in Flanders, 
Belgium. Although a widespread early exit culture exists among teachers and 
teacher shortages are expected in several countries, little attention has been 
given to the specific determinants of early retirement among teachers. Using 
multivariate linear regression analysis, we study the preferred retirement age 
of working teachers (n = 1,878) and the actual retirement age of retired 
teachers (n = 1,246). Financial factors, feelings of emotional exhaustion, and 
dissatisfaction with nonteaching-related workload (such as meetings and 
paperwork) have an important influence on the retirement decision. Results show 
that the majority of teachers make use of early exit schemes. This illustrates 
the existence of a widespread early exit culture among senior teachers in 
Flanders.

© The Author(s) 2014.

DOI: 10.1177/0164027513519449
PMID: 25651547 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


620. Glob J Health Sci. 2015;7(1):107-14. doi: 10.5539/gjhs.v7n1p107.

Risk factors for cardiovascular disease mortality among 86866 members of the 
Thai Cohort Study, 2005-2010.

Zhao J, Kelly M, Bain C, Seubsman SA, Sleigh A; Thai Cohort Study Team.

Thailand is experiencing a development-associated health-risk transition with 
increasing prominence of chronic diseases. We aim to determine the risk factors 
for cardiovascular disease (CVD) deaths in Thailand. We conducted longitudinal 
analyses of deaths in the nationwide Thai Cohort Study from 2005 to 2010 
(n=86866)using national vital registration data. Multivariate logistic 
regression models were used to calculate mutually adjusted estimates of 
association between dying from CVD and various risk factors measured at baseline 
in 2005.For three important risks, population attributable fractions were 
calculated. There were 78 CVD deaths. The probability of dying from CVD for 
males was 0.15% and for females was 0.04%. Multivariate modelling showed that 
current smoking (OR=4.01, CI=2.02-7.93), hypertension (OR=l.91, CI=0.95-3.85), 
and diabetes (OR=2.51,CI=l.Ol-6.25) are major risk factors of CVD deaths. For 
males, 54% of CVD deaths can be attributed to smoking. Females are protected by 
very low rates of smoking. Ischaemic heart disease (OR=6.85, CI=2.47-19.01)is 
also a strong predictor of CVD deaths. As CVD is a top cause of death, reducing 
CVD mortality by controlling smoking, hypertension, and hyperglycaemia will 
substantially improve life expectancy in Thailand today. The low smoking rates 
among females need to be actively maintained and confer great benefit.

DOI: 10.5539/gjhs.v7n1p107
PMCID: PMC4796435
PMID: 25651607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


621. Epidemiol Prev. 2014 Nov-Dec;38(6):394-7.

[Healthy Life Years: a very promising indicator to be handled with caution].

[Article in Italian]

Zauli Sajani S(1), Battista A, Frova L, Lauriola P.

Author information:
(1)Centro ambiente e salute, Agenzia regionale per la prevenzione e l'ambiente 
(ARPA) dell'Emilia-Romagna, Modena. szauli@arpa.emr.it.

In several public debates, scientific conferences and, recently, also in the 
scientific literature, some figures from EUROSTAT have been presented; they show 
a relevant decrease in the healthy life expectancy in Italy. This idea is based 
on the analysis of the trend of Healthy Life Years (HLY), an indicator 
synthesizing the grade of functional limitation of individuals based on the 
answers to a self-completed questionnaire. In particular, the dramatic decrease 
of HLY in Italy from 2005 to 2007 raised concerns. This paper analyses the 
reasons suggesting caution in interpreting these data considering first and 
foremost the changes across years in the formulation of questions and answers. 
Even though HLY and the other indicators selected by the European Union have a 
great potential in terms of communication and synthetic view, caution is needed 
in using these data and in drawing conclusions from figures and instruments of 
recent application that are still evolving.

PMID: 25651773 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


622. Age (Dordr). 2015 Feb;37(1):9740. doi: 10.1007/s11357-014-9740-2. Epub 2015
Feb  5.

Genetic analysis of a murine QTL for diet restriction on chromosome 15.

Newell BL(1), Kechris K, McQueen MB, Johnson TE.

Author information:
(1)Institute for Behavioral Genetics, University of Colorado, 1480 30th St., 
Boulder, CO, 80303, USA, Breanne.Newell@colorado.edu.

Diet restriction (DR), the implementation of a reduced calorie diet, without 
starvation, increases lifespan in a number of model organisms including mammals. 
How DR extends lifespan remains unclear. Genetic studies have shown that life 
extension is not a universal response to DR; instead, the effects of DR are 
strain dependent. We previously mapped a quantitative trait locus (QTL) 
specifying differential response to DR to chromosome 15 in the inbred long-sleep 
(ILS) × inbred short-sleep (ISS) recombinant inbred panel of mice. This QTL 
named Fedr2 (fuel efficiency response to DR)-2 modifies body weight (BW) and 
hair growth (HG) in response to DR. The QTL has been previously mapped using the 
ISS.Lore5(LA) (5LA) congenic strain. Here, we have used the reciprocal congenic 
strain ILS.Lore5(SA) (5SA) to further investigate Fedr2. The 5LA congenic showed 
increased ability to maintain BW and HG under DR. For the reciprocal congenic, 
5SA, we expected the reciprocal response that the 5SA congenic would have a 
lesser ability to maintain BW and HG under DR. This expectation was mostly met. 
The Fedr2 (S) allele conferred lower BW maintenance under DR in both females and 
males. For females, the difference in BW was significant for the entirety of DR, 
and for males, the difference became significant at week 17 of DR. For HG, the 
Fedr2 (S) allele conferred decreased HG ability under DR in males, but not for 
females. These results highlight the genetic basis for variation in DR response 
and support the previous observations that Fedr2 mediates BW and HG during DR.

DOI: 10.1007/s11357-014-9740-2
PMCID: PMC4317404
PMID: 25651884 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


623. Age Ageing. 2015 May;44(3):497-501. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afu206. Epub 2015
Feb 3.

Progress towards predicting 1-year mortality in older people living in 
residential long-term care.

Heppenstall CP(1), Broad JB(2), Boyd M(3), Gott M(4), Connolly MJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of Otago, Christchurch, 1st Floor, 
Princess Margaret Hopital, PO Box 800, Christchurch 8140, New Zealand.
(2)Freemasons Department of Geriatric Medicine, University of Auckland, Auckland 
0740, New Zealand.
(3)Freemasons Department of Geriatric Medicine, University of Auckland, Auckland 
0740, New Zealand Waitemata District Health Board, Auckland, New Zealand 
Department of Nursing, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(4)Department of Health Sciences, University of Auckland, Auckland, New Zealand.
(5)Freemasons Department of Geriatric Medicine, University of Auckland, Auckland 
0740, New Zealand Waitemata District Health Board, Auckland, New Zealand.

BACKGROUND: frail older people living in residential long-term care (LTC) have 
limited life expectancy. Identifying those with poor prognosis may improve 
management and facilitate transition to a palliative approach to care.
OBJECTIVE: to develop methods for predicting mortality in LTC.
DESIGN: a population-based cohort study.
SETTING: LTC facilities, Auckland, New Zealand.
SUBJECTS: five hundred randomly selected older people in a census-type survey of 
those living in LTC in 2008.
METHODS: mortality data were obtained from New Zealand Ministry of Health. Two 
methods for assessing mortality risk were developed using demographic, 
functional and health service information: (i) two geriatricians blinded to 
identifying data and to mortality, independently reviewed survey, medications 
and pre-survey hospitalisations data, and grouped residents according to 
perceived risk of death within 12 months; (ii) multivariate logistic regression 
model used the same survey and medication items as the geriatricians.
RESULTS: for the geriatricians' assessment, each quintile of perceived risk was 
associated with a significant increase in mortality (P < 0.001). Area under the 
curve (AUC) for both physicians was 0.64. The logistic regression model included 
age, gender, assistance with feeding and requiring night attention, all 
variables which are easily available from LTC records. AUC for the model was 
0.70, but when validated against the entire OPAL cohort, it was 0.65. When 
either or both geriatrician and the model together predicted high risk of death, 
1-year mortality was >50%.
CONCLUSION: two methods with the potential to identify older people with limited 
prognosis are described. Use of these methods allowed identification of over 
half of those who died within 12 months.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afu206
PMID: 25652076 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


624. Cancer. 2015 May 15;121(10):1556-62. doi: 10.1002/cncr.29225. Epub 2015 Feb
3.

Personalizing annual lung cancer screening for patients with chronic obstructive 
pulmonary disease: A decision analysis.

Lowry KP(1), Gazelle GS, Gilmore ME, Johanson C, Munshi V, Choi SE, Tramontano 
AC, Kong CY, McMahon PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts; Massachusetts General Hospital, Institute for Technology 
Assessment, Boston, Massachusetts.

BACKGROUND: Lung cancer screening with annual chest computed tomography (CT) is 
recommended for current and former smokers with a ≥30-pack-year smoking history. 
Patients with chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) are at increased risk 
of developing lung cancer and may benefit from screening at lower pack-year 
thresholds.
METHODS: We used a previously validated simulation model to compare the health 
benefits of lung cancer screening in current and former smokers ages 55-80 with 
≥30 pack-years with hypothetical programs using lower pack-year thresholds for 
individuals with COPD (≥20, ≥10, and ≥1 pack-years). Calibration targets for 
COPD prevalence and associated lung cancer risk were derived using the 
Framingham Offspring Study limited data set. We performed sensitivity analyses 
to evaluate the stability of results across different rates of adherence to 
screening, increased competing mortality risk from COPD, and increased surgical 
ineligibility in individuals with COPD. The primary outcome was projected life 
expectancy.
RESULTS: Programs using lower pack-year thresholds for individuals with COPD 
yielded the highest life expectancy gains for a given number of screens. Highest 
life expectancy was achieved when lowering the pack-year threshold to ≥1 
pack-year for individuals with COPD, which dominated all other screening 
strategies. These results were stable across different adherence rates to 
screening and increases in competing mortality risk for COPD and surgical 
ineligibility.
CONCLUSIONS: Current and former smokers with COPD may disproportionately benefit 
from lung cancer screening. A lower pack-year threshold for screening 
eligibility may benefit this high-risk patient population.

© 2015 American Cancer Society.

DOI: 10.1002/cncr.29225
PMCID: PMC4492436
PMID: 25652107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


625. Appl Health Econ Health Policy. 2015 Apr;13(2):233-42. doi: 
10.1007/s40258-015-0153-x.

Economic analysis of thrombo inCode, a clinical-genetic function for assessing 
the risk of venous thromboembolism.

Rubio-Terrés C(1), Soria JM, Morange PE, Souto JC, Suchon P, Mateo J, Saut N, 
Rubio-Rodríguez D, Sala J, Gracia A, Pich S, Salas E.

Author information:
(1)Health Value, C/-Virgen de Aránzazu, 21, 5°B, 28034, Madrid, Spain.

BACKGROUND: Patients with venous thromboembolism (VTE) commonly have an 
underlying genetic predisposition. However, genetic tests nowadays in use have 
very low sensitivity for identifying subjects at risk of VTE. Thrombo inCode(®) 
is a new genetic tool that has demonstrated very good sensitivity, thanks to 
very good coverage of the genetic variants that modify the function of the 
coagulation pathway.
OBJECTIVE: To conduct an economic analysis of risk assessment of VTE from the 
perspective of the Spanish National Health System with Thrombo inCode(®) (a 
clinical-genetic function for assessing the risk of VTE) versus the 
conventional/standard method used to date (factor V Leiden and prothrombin 
G20210A).
METHODS: An economic model was created from the National Health System 
perspective, using a decision tree in patients aged 45 years with a life 
expectancy of 81 years. The predictive capacity of VTE, based on identification 
of thrombophilia using Thrombo inCode(®) and using the standard method, was 
obtained from two case-control studies conducted in two different populations 
(S. PAU and MARTHA; 1,451 patients in all). Although this is not always the 
case, patients who were identified as suffering from thrombophilia were subject 
to preventive treatment of VTE with warfarin, leading to a reduction in the 
number of VTE events and an increased risk of severe bleeding. The health state 
utilities (quality-adjusted life-years [QALYs]) and costs (in 2013 EUR values) 
were obtained from the literature and Spanish sources.
RESULTS: On the basis of a price of EUR 180 for Thrombo inCode(®), this would be 
the dominant option (more effective and with lower costs than the standard 
method) in both populations. The Monte Carlo probabilistic analyses indicate 
that the dominance would occur in 100 % of the simulations in both populations. 
The threshold price of Thrombo inCode(®) needed to reach the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) generally accepted in Spain (EUR 30,000 per QALY 
gained) would be between EUR 3,950 (in the MARTHA population) and EUR 11,993 (in 
the S. PAU population).
CONCLUSION: According to the economic model, Thrombo inCode(®) is the dominant 
option in assessing the risk of VTE, compared with the standard method currently 
used.

DOI: 10.1007/s40258-015-0153-x
PMCID: PMC4376955
PMID: 25652150 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


626. BMC Complement Altern Med. 2015 Feb 5;15:12. doi: 10.1186/s12906-015-0531-9.

A qualitative study of changes in expectations over time among patients with 
chronic low back pain seeking four CAM therapies.

Eaves ER(1), Sherman KJ(2), Ritenbaugh C(3), Hsu C(4), Nichter M(5), Turner 
JA(6), Cherkin DC(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Family and Community Medicine & School of Anthropology, 
University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA. emerye@email.arizona.edu.
(2)Group Health Research Institute, Seattle, USA. sherman.k@ghc.org.
(3)Department of Family and Community Medicine & School of Anthropology, 
University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA. ritenbau@email.arizona.edu.
(4)Group Health Research Institute, Seattle, USA. hsu.c@ghc.org.
(5)Department of Family and Community Medicine & School of Anthropology, 
University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ, USA. mnichter@email.arizona.edu.
(6)Department of Psychiatry & Behavioral Sciences and Department of 
Rehabilitation Medicine, University of Washington School of Medicine, Seattle, 
WA, USA. jturner@u.washington.edu.
(7)Group Health Research Institute, Seattle, USA. cherkin.d@ghc.org.

BACKGROUND: The relationship between patient expectations about a treatment and 
the treatment outcomes, particularly for Complementary and Alternative Medicine 
(CAM) therapies, is not well understood. Using qualitative data from a larger 
study to develop a valid expectancy questionnaire for use with participants 
starting new CAM therapies, we examined how participants' expectations of 
treatment changed over the course of a therapy.
METHODS: We conducted semi-structured qualitative interviews with 64 
participants initiating one of four CAM therapies (yoga, chiropractic, 
acupuncture, massage) for chronic low back pain. Participants just starting 
treatment were interviewed up to three times over a period of 3 months. 
Interviews were transcribed verbatim and analyzed using a qualitative mixed 
methods approach incorporating immersion/crystallization and matrix analysis for 
a decontexualization and recontextualization approach to understand changes in 
thematic emphasis over time.
RESULTS: Pre-treatment expectations consisted of conjecture about whether or not 
the CAM therapy could relieve pain and improve participation in meaningful 
activities. Expectations tended to shift over the course of treatment to be more 
inclusive of broader lifestyle factors, the need for long-term pain management 
strategies and attention to long-term quality of life and wellness. Although a 
shift toward greater acceptance of chronic pain and the need for strategies to 
keep pain from flaring was observed across participants regardless of therapy, 
participants varied in their assessments of whether increased awareness of the 
need for ongoing self-care and maintenance strategies was considered a "positive 
outcome". Regardless of how participants evaluated the outcome of treatment, 
participants from all four therapies reported increased awareness, acceptance of 
the chronic nature of pain, and attention to the need to take responsibility for 
their own health.
CONCLUSIONS: The shift in treatment expectations to greater acceptance of pain 
and the need for continued self-care suggests that future research should 
explore how CAM practitioners can capitalize on these shifts to encourage 
feelings of empowerment rather than disappointment surrounding realizations of 
the need for continued engagement with self-care.

DOI: 10.1186/s12906-015-0531-9
PMCID: PMC4322442
PMID: 25652396 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


627. Drug Des Devel Ther. 2015 Jan 19;9:625-9. doi: 10.2147/DDDT.S70852.
eCollection  2015.

Design of a new therapy for patients with chronic kidney disease: use of 
microarrays for selective hemoadsorption of uremic wastes and toxins to improve 
homeostasis.

Shahidi Bonjar MR(1), Shahidi Bonjar L(2).

Author information:
(1)School of Dentistry, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(2)Department of Pharmacology, College of Pharmacy, Kerman University of Medical 
Sciences, Kerman, Iran.

The hypothesis proposed here would provide near to optimum homeostasis for 
patients with chronic kidney disease (CKD) without the need for hemodialysis. 
This strategy has not been described previously in the scientific literature. It 
involves a targeted therapy that may prevent progression of the disease and help 
to improve the well-being of CKD patients. It proposes a nanotechnological 
device, ie, a microarray-oriented homeostasis provider (MOHP), to improve 
homeostasis in CKD patients. MOHP would be an auxiliary kidney aid, and would 
improve the filtration functions that impaired kidneys cannot perform by their 
own. MOHP is composed of two main computer-oriented components, ie, a 
quantitative microarray detector (QMD) and a homeostasis-oriented microarray 
column (HOMC). QMD detects and HOMC selectively removes defined quantities of 
uremic wastes, toxins and any other metabolites which is programmed for. The QMD 
and HOMC would accomplish this with the help of a peristaltic blood pump that 
would circulate blood aseptically in an extracorporeal closed circuit. During 
the passage of blood through the QMD, this microarray detector would 
quantitatively monitor all of the blood compounds that accumulate in the blood 
of a patient with impaired glomerular filtration, including small-sized, 
middle-sized and large-sized molecules. The electronic information collected by 
QMD would be electronically transmitted to the HOMC, which would adjust the 
molecules to the concentrations they are electronically programmed for and/or 
receive from QMD. This process of monitoring and removal of waste continues 
until the programmed homeostasis criteria are reached. Like a conventional 
kidney machine, MOHP can be used in hospitals and homes under the supervision of 
a trained technician. The main advantages of this treatment would include 
improved homeostasis, a reduced likelihood of side effects and of the morbidity 
resulting from CKD, slower progression of kidney impairment, prevention of 
end-stage renal failure, a decreased need for hemodialysis therapy, avoidance of 
dialysis-related side effects later on in the patient's life, improved quality 
of life and increased life expectancy.

DOI: 10.2147/DDDT.S70852
PMCID: PMC4307649
PMID: 25653500 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


628. Psychol Res Behav Manag. 2015 Jan 20;8:27-39. doi: 10.2147/PRBM.S75440. 
eCollection 2015.

Longevity expectations in the pension fund, insurance, and employee benefits 
industries.

Zhavoronkov A(1).

Author information:
(1)Biogerontology Research Foundation, London, United Kingdom.

Considerable progress has been made in many areas of biomedical science since 
the 1960s, suggesting likely increases in life expectancy and decreases in 
morbidity and mortality in the adult population. These changes may pose 
substantial risks to the pensions and benefits industries. While there is no 
significant statistical evidence demonstrating rapid decreases in mortality 
rates, there are conflicting opinions among demographers and biogerontologists 
on the biological limits of the human lifespan and trends in life expectancy. We 
administered a survey of the International Employee Benefits Association (IEBA), 
a large, international industry group. Industry professionals employed by 
consulting (35%), insurance (24%), pension (14%), and other (27%) companies 
responded to 32 questions. Respondents showed reasonably conservative views on 
the future of longevity and retirement, including that for women. The 
respondents formed their personal longevity expectations based on their family 
history and, to a lesser degree, on the actuarial life tables. Most of the 
sample expressed no desire to life past age 100 years, even if the enabling 
technologies required to maintain a healthy youthful state were available, and 
only a few respondents in the sample expressed a desire to live for the maximum 
period (at least) offered by the survey question. The majority of the 
respondents would not undergo any invasive procedures, and only 56% of the 
respondents would opt for noninvasive therapies to extend their healthy 
lifespans to 150 years of age if these were available.

DOI: 10.2147/PRBM.S75440
PMCID: PMC4309776
PMID: 25653568


629. Front Psychol. 2015 Jan 21;5:1551. doi: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01551.
eCollection  2014.

Forever Young(er): potential age-defying effects of long-term meditation on gray 
matter atrophy.

Luders E(1), Cherbuin N(2), Kurth F(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurology, School of Medicine, University of California, Los 
Angeles Los Angeles, CA, USA.
(2)Centre for Research on Ageing Health and Wellbeing, Australian National 
University Canberra, ACT, Australia.

While overall life expectancy has been increasing, the human brain still begins 
deteriorating after the first two decades of life and continues degrading 
further with increasing age. Thus, techniques that diminish the negative impact 
of aging on the brain are desirable. Existing research, although scarce, 
suggests meditation to be an attractive candidate in the quest for an accessible 
and inexpensive, efficacious remedy. Here, we examined the link between age and 
cerebral gray matter re-analyzing a large sample (n = 100) of long-term 
meditators and control subjects aged between 24 and 77 years. When correlating 
global and local gray matter with age, we detected negative correlations within 
both controls and meditators, suggesting a decline over time. However, the 
slopes of the regression lines were steeper and the correlation coefficients 
were stronger in controls than in meditators. Moreover, the age-affected brain 
regions were much more extended in controls than in meditators, with significant 
group-by-age interactions in numerous clusters throughout the brain. Altogether, 
these findings seem to suggest less age-related gray matter atrophy in long-term 
meditation practitioners.

DOI: 10.3389/fpsyg.2014.01551
PMCID: PMC4300906
PMID: 25653628


630. J Clin Diagn Res. 2014 Dec;8(12):ZE22-4. doi: 10.7860/JCDR/2014/10393.5304.
Epub  2014 Dec 5.

Growing Old is Mandatory But Growing Up is Optional: An Explanation to 
Geriatrics.

Priyadarshini SR(1), Sahoo PK(2), Bhuyan SK(3), Misra SR(4), Pati AR(1).

Author information:
(1)Assistant Professor, Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, Institute of 
Dental Sciences Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India .
(2)Assistant Professor, Department of Prosthodontics, Institute of Dental 
Sciences Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India .
(3)Professor, Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, Institute of Dental 
Sciences Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India .
(4)Associate Professor, Department of Oral Medicine and Radiology, Institute of 
Dental Sciences Bhubaneswar, Odisha, India .

Growing old is an inevitable process and aging graciously requires a healthy 
body where oral cavity occupies an important place. Geriatric dentistry is a 
specialized multidisciplinary branch of general dentistry designed to provide 
dental services to elderly patients. The rise in life expectancy has attributed 
to the substantial reduction in mortality which brought about by improved health 
care facilities, sanitation, environmental and public health reforms coupled 
with better hygiene and living conditions. The goal of geriatric treatment is to 
achieve optimal oral health, thus enhancing overall health. This begins with a 
concerted effort between the patient and the healthcare and dental teams. When 
medical problems exist, the physician and other involved healthcare 
professionals should be consulted, as these diseases can affect the safety and 
efficacy of various dental treatments. Thus a unified approach should be 
followed to assist geriatric patients to maintain optimal oral health and a high 
quality of life. Here in, this article we have reviewed the categories geriatric 
patients are divided to, various aging theories, changes occurring in various 
systems with their effects on system along with the various dental effects and 
age changes in them and treatment needs and strategies' concerning the elderly 
population.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2014/10393.5304
PMCID: PMC4316363
PMID: 25654057


631. J Am Chem Soc. 2015 Feb 25;137(7):2769-75. doi: 10.1021/jacs.5b00445. Epub
2015  Feb 16.

Replacing uridine with 2-thiouridine enhances the rate and fidelity of 
nonenzymatic RNA primer extension.

Heuberger BD(1), Pal A, Del Frate F, Topkar VV, Szostak JW.

Author information:
(1)Howard Hughes Medical Institute, Center for Computational and Integrative 
Biology, and Department of Molecular Biology, Simches Research Center, 
Massachusetts General Hospital , Boston, Massachusetts 02114, United States.

The nonenzymatic replication of RNA oligonucleotides is thought to have played a 
key role in the origin of life prior to the evolution of ribozyme-catalyzed RNA 
replication. Although the copying of oligo-C templates by 
2-methylimidazole-activated G monomers can be quite efficient, the copying of 
mixed sequence templates, especially those containing A and U, is particularly 
slow and error-prone. The greater thermodynamic stability of the 
2-thio-U(s(2)U):A base pair, relative to the canonical U:A base pair, suggests 
that replacing U with s(2)U might enhance the rate and fidelity of the 
nonenzymatic copying of RNA templates. Here we report that this single atom 
substitution in the activated monomer improves both the kinetics and the 
fidelity of nonenzymatic primer extension on mixed-sequence RNA templates. In 
addition, the mean lengths of primer extension products obtained with s(2)U is 
greater than those obtained with U, augmenting the potential for nonenzymatic 
replication of heritable function-rich sequences. We suggest that noncanonical 
nucleotides such as s(2)U may have played a role during the infancy of the RNA 
world by facilitating the nonenzymatic replication of genomic RNA 
oligonucleotides.

DOI: 10.1021/jacs.5b00445
PMCID: PMC4985000
PMID: 25654265 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interest.


632. J Clin Invest. 2015 Jan;125(1):85-93. doi: 10.1172/JCI73946. Epub 2015 Jan
2.

Essential role for autophagy in life span extension.

Madeo F, Zimmermann A, Maiuri MC, Kroemer G.

Life and health span can be prolonged by calorie limitation or by pharmacologic 
agents that mimic the effects of caloric restriction. Both starvation and the 
genetic inactivation of nutrient signaling converge on the induction of 
autophagy, a cytoplasmic recycling process that counteracts the age-associated 
accumulation of damaged organelles and proteins as it improves the metabolic 
fitness of cells. Here we review experimental findings indicating that 
inhibition of the major nutrient and growth-related signaling pathways as well 
as the upregulation of anti-aging pathways mediate life span extension via the 
induction of autophagy. Furthermore, we discuss mounting evidence suggesting 
that autophagy is not only necessary but, at least in some cases, also 
sufficient for increasing longevity.

DOI: 10.1172/JCI73946
PMCID: PMC4382258
PMID: 25654554 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


633. Harefuah. 2014 Dec;153(12):718-22, 753.

[Short-term prognostication of recently admitted patients to internal medicine 
wards by the staff].

[Article in Hebrew]

Helviz Y, Nesherz G, Breuer GS.

BACKGROUND: The "dying patient" law in Israel deals with end- of-life decisions.
AIM: This prospective study evaluates the ability of internal medicine staff to 
assess the short-term prognosis of recently admitted patients.
METHODS: During the period November 1st 2008 until January 6th 2009, the staff 
of the internal medicine wards received questionnaires regarding their recently 
admitted patients (up to 72 hours from the time of admission). The 
questionnaires included thestaff member's role assessment of each patient's 
prognosis for the next two weeks. Later, charts of the patients were examined 
for demographic data and outcome.
RESULTS: Questionnaires regarding 599 patients were completed. The outcome was 
validated in 466 of these patients. Nurse's filled in 259 questionnaires, 
residents at early stage (before the first residency exam) completed 437, senior 
residents (after this exam] filled in 75 and senior/attending physicians filled 
in 329 patients' questionnaires. Overall, 69, patients died within 14 days. The 
sensitivity of assessment of short-term prognosis was low (0.38) but the 
specificity was very high (0.95). The positive predictive value was 0.61. Among 
physicians, the positive predictive value increased with seniority, but nurses 
had the highest positive predictive value scores (0.73). The negative predictive 
value was 0.89 without significant differences among the 4 studied groups.
CONCLUSIONS: Internal medicine staff has limited capacity to accurately assess 
short-term prognosis of recently admitted patients.

PMID: 25654912 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


634. Water Environ Res. 2014 Dec;86(12):2294-300. doi: 
10.2175/106143014x13896437493580.

The impact of Eskoba, a glyphosate formulation, on the freshwater plankton 
community.

Reno U, Gutierrez MF, Regaldo L, Gagneten AM.

This study analyzed the acute effects of a glyphosate-based herbicide (Eskoba) 
on the microalgae Chlorella vulgaris, the cladoceran Simocephalus vetulus, and 
the copepod Notodiaptomus conifer, and evaluated the recovery ability of the 
surviving micro-crustaceans. Survival, age of first reproduction, and fecundity 
were used as endpoints for S. vetulus, while survival and time to reach the 
adult stage were used as endpoints for N. conifer. The registered order of 
sensitivity was S. vetulus (48-hour effective concentration [EC50]: 21 mg/L) > 
C. vulgaris (72-hour EC50: 58.59 mg/ L) > N. conifer (48-hour EC50: 95 mg/L). 
Despite the growth of C. vulgaris stimulated after 24 hours of exposure to the 
commercial formulation of glyphosate Eskoba, it was inhibited after 48 hours by 
all the concentrations tested. In postexposure experiments, microcrustaceans 
reduced their life expectancy, S. vetulus decreased its fertility, and N. 
conifer inhibited its sexual maturity. In summary, it was demonstrated that 
these species lost their recovery ability.

DOI: 10.2175/106143014x13896437493580
PMID: 25654931 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


635. Blood. 2015 Mar 19;125(12):1866-9. doi: 10.1182/blood-2014-07-592832. Epub
2015  Feb 5.

Value of innovation in hematologic malignancies: a systematic review of 
published cost-effectiveness analyses.

Saret CJ(1), Winn AN(2), Shah G(3), Parsons SK(3), Lin PJ(1), Cohen JT(1), 
Neumann PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA;
(2)Department of Health Policy and Management, Gillings School of Global Public 
Health, University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, NC; and.
(3)Center for Health Solutions, Institute for Clinical Research and Health 
Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA.

Comment in
    Blood. 2015 Oct 8;126(15):1860-1.

We analyzed cost-effectiveness studies related to hematologic malignancies from 
the Tufts Medical Center Cost-Effectiveness Analysis Registry 
(www.cearegistry.org), focusing on studies of innovative therapies. Studies that 
met inclusion criteria were categorized by 4 cancer types (chronic myeloid 
leukemia, chronic lymphocytic leukemia, non-Hodgkin lymphoma, and multiple 
myeloma) and 9 treatment agents (interferon-α, alemtuzumab, bendamustine, 
bortezomib, dasatinib, imatinib, lenalidomide, rituximab alone or in 
combination, and thalidomide). We examined study characteristics and stratified 
cost-effectiveness ratios by type of cancer, treatment, funder, and year of 
study publication. Twenty-nine studies published in the years 1996-2012 
(including 44 cost-effectiveness ratios) met inclusion criteria, 22 (76%) of 
which were industry funded. Most ratios fell below $50,000 per quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALY) (73%) and $100,000/QALY (86%). Industry-funded studies (n = 
22) reported a lower median ratio ($26,000/QALY) than others (n = 7; 
$33,000/QALY), although the difference was not statistically significant. 
Published data suggest that innovative treatments for hematologic malignancies 
may provide reasonable value for money.

© 2015 by The American Society of Hematology.

DOI: 10.1182/blood-2014-07-592832
PMCID: PMC4366623
PMID: 25655601 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


636. Geriatr Gerontol Int. 2015 Jun;15(6):673-87. doi: 10.1111/ggi.12450. Epub
2015  Feb 5.

Japan as the front-runner of super-aged societies: Perspectives from medicine 
and medical care in Japan.

Arai H(1), Ouchi Y(2), Toba K(3), Endo T(4), Shimokado K(5), Tsubota K(6), 
Matsuo S(7), Mori H(8), Yumura W(9), Yokode M(1), Rakugi H(10), Ohshima S(3).

Author information:
(1)Kyoto University Graduate School of Medicine, Kyoto, Japan.
(2)Toranomon Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)National Center for Geriatrics and Gerontology, Obu, Japan.
(4)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Tokyo, Japan.
(5)Tokyo Medical and Dental University Graduate School, Tokyo, Japan.
(6)Keio University School of Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(7)Nagoya University Graduate School of Medicine, Nagoya, Japan.
(8)Tokai University, Isehara, Japan.
(9)International University of Health and Welfare Hospital, Tochigi, Japan.
(10)Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan.

BACKGROUND: The demographic structure of a country changes dramatically with 
increasing trends toward general population aging and declining birth rates. In 
Japan, the percentage of the elderly population (aged ≥65 years) reached 25% in 
2013; it is expected to exceed 30% in 2025 and reach 39.9% in 2060. The national 
total population has been decreasing steadily since its peak reached in 2008, 
and it is expected to fall to the order of 80 million in 2060. Of the total 
population, those aged ≥75 years accounted for 12.3% as of 2013, and this is 
expected to reach 26.9% in 2060. As the demographic structure changes, the 
disease structure changes, and therefore the medical care demand changes. To 
accommodate the medical care demand changes, it is necessary to secure a system 
for providing medical care. Japan has thus far attained remarkable achievements 
in medical care, seeking a better prognosis for survival; however, its medical 
care demand is anticipated to change both qualitatively and quantitatively. As 
diseases in the elderly, particularly in the old-old population, are often 
intractable, conventional medical care must be upgraded to one suitable for an 
aged society. What is required to this end is a shift from "cure-seeking medical 
care" focusing on disease treatment on an organ-specific basis to "cure and 
support-seeking medical care" with treatments reprioritized to maximize the 
