continuous BP-C1 treatment, of whom 68.4% were classified as responders. The sum 
CTC-NCI toxicity score increased nonsignificantly in the BP-C1 group but 
significantly in the placebo group (P=0.05). The difference in increase between 
groups did not meet the level of significance (P=0.12). The sum toxicity score 
was reduced in the patients receiving 64 days of BP-C1 from 9.2 at screening to 
8.9 at Day 48, but it increased again to 10.1 by Day 64 and 10.6 during the 
28-day follow-up. "Breast cancer-related pain and discomfort" and "Breast cancer 
treatment problem last week" were significantly reduced (P=0.02) in the BP-C1 
group but increased slightly in the placebo group; between-group differences 
were significant in favor of BP-C1 (P=0.05). "Breast cancer related pain and 
discomfort", "Breast cancer treatment problem last week," and "Physical activity 
problem" were significantly reduced during the 64 days of BP-C1 treatment 
(P≤0.05).
CONCLUSION: For patients suffering from stage IV metastatic breast cancer, 
treatment with BP-C1 reduces cancer growth, is well tolerated, improves quality 
of life, and produces few adverse events, which were mainly mild and manageable.

DOI: 10.2147/BCTT.S71781
PMCID: PMC4251531
PMID: 25473312


117. Infect Agent Cancer. 2014 Nov 17;9(1):38. doi: 10.1186/1750-9378-9-38. 
eCollection 2014.

Global burden of deaths from Epstein-Barr virus attributable malignancies 
1990-2010.

Khan G(1), Hashim MJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Microbiology and Immunology, College of Medicine and Health 
Sciences, United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, United Arab Emirates.
(2)Department of Family Medicine, College of Medicine and Health Sciences (Tawam 
Hospital Campus), United Arab Emirates University, Al Ain, P.O. Box 17666, 
United Arab Emirates.

BACKGROUND: Epstein-Barr virus (EBV) is an oncogenic virus implicated in the 
pathogenesis of a number of human malignancies of both lymphoid and epithelial 
origin. Thus, a comprehensive and up-to-date analysis focused on the global 
burden of EBV-attributable malignancies is of significant interest.
METHODS: Based on published studies, we estimated the proportion of Burkitt's 
lymphoma (BL), Hodgkin's lymphoma (HL), nasopharyngeal carcinoma NPC), gastric 
carcinoma (GC) and post-transplant lymphoproliferative disease (PTLD) 
attributable to EBV, taking into consideration age, sex and geographical 
variations. This proportion was then imputed into the Global Burden of Disease 
2010 dataset to determine the global burden of each EBV-attributable malignancy 
in males and females in 20 different age groups and 21 world regions from 1990 
to 2010.
RESULTS: The analysis showed that the combined global burden of deaths in 2010 
from all EBV-attributable malignancies was 142,979, representing 1.8% of all 
cancer deaths. This burden has increased by 14.6% over a period of 20 years. All 
5 EBV-attributable malignancies were more common in males in all geographical 
regions (ratio of 2.6:1). Gastric cancer and NPC accounted for 92% of all 
EBV-attributable cancer deaths. Almost 50% of EBV-attributed malignancies 
occurred in East Asia. This region also had the highest age-standardized death 
rates for both NPC and GC.
CONCLUSIONS: Approximately 143,000 deaths in 2010 were attributed to 
EBV-associated malignancies. This figure is likely to be an underestimate since 
some of the less prevalent EBV-associated malignancies have not been included. 
Moreover, the global increase in population and life-expectancy will further 
increase the overall burden of EBV-associated cancer deaths. Development of a 
suitable vaccine could have a substantial impact on reducing this burden.

DOI: 10.1186/1750-9378-9-38
PMCID: PMC4253616
PMID: 25473414


118. Obesity Management Interventions Delivered in Primary Care for Patients with
 Osteoarthritis: A Review of the Clinical Effectiveness [Internet].

Ottawa (ON): Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health; 2014 Jul 23.
CADTH Rapid Response Reports.

Osteoarthritis (OA) is the most common joint disorder, affecting more than 10% 
of Canadian adults with symptoms in the hands, knees, hips, back, and neck. In 
Canada, joint damage from osteoarthritis accounts for over 80% of hip and over 
90% of knee replacements. Obesity is recognized as the strongest modifiable risk 
factor in osteoarthritis. It has been reported that obese women and men have 
nearly four times and greater than five times, respectively, the risk of knee 
arthritis compared to their non-obese counterparts. The association between 
being overweight or obese and increased stress on weight-bearing joints like the 
knees and hips seem intuitive, but the exact manner in which excess weight 
influences OA is unclear. However, being overweight has been associated with 
higher rates of hand OA in some studies. Thus, osteoarthritis is considered an 
active disease process with joint destruction driven by both biomechanical and 
pro-inflammatory factors. While effective weight management is a laudable health 
goal for all, it is especially important for obese patients with knee OA because 
being only 10 pounds overweight increases the force on the knee by 30 to 60 
pounds with each step which exacerbates the OA and elevates the risk for future 
total knee replacement. In addition to alleviating sheer pain, stiffness and 
risk of mobility disability, weight loss reduces the risk of vascular events 
which is reported to be higher in people with OA compared to people without OA. 
Substantial improvements in physical function in obese patients with OA have 
been reported with even modest weight loss (≥ 5% of baseline weight). Some 
researchers have concluded that in elderly persons (mean age 70.5 years), if 
obese men lost enough weight to fall into the overweight category and men in the 
overweight category lost enough weight to move into the normal weight category, 
the risk of developing knee OA would decrease by 21.5%. Similar changes in 
weight category by women would result in a 33% decrease. Even so, weight loss 
could potentially result in undesirable reductions in lean muscle and bone mass 
with the potential to aggravate age-related risk of disability and osteoporotic 
fractures which compromise quality of life and life expectancy. The objective of 
this report is to review the evidence for clinical effectiveness of long-term 
primary care weight management interventions to halt or minimize the progression 
of osteoarthritis in obese patients.

Copyright © 2014 Canadian Agency for Drugs and Technologies in Health.

PMID: 25473700


119. Camb Q Healthc Ethics. 2015 Jan;24(1):3-6. doi: 10.1017/S0963180114000267.

Reflections on moral enhancement: can we? Should we?

Rakić V, Hughes J.

DOI: 10.1017/S0963180114000267
PMID: 25473853 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


120. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 4;9(12):e113432. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113432. 
eCollection 2014.

Clinical management and burden of prostate cancer: a Markov Monte Carlo model.

Sanyal C(1), Aprikian A(2), Cury F(3), Chevalier S(2), Dragomir A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgery, Division of Urology, McGill University, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.
(2)Department of Surgery, Division of Urology, McGill University, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada; Research Institute of McGill University Health Center, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada.
(3)Department of Surgery, Division of Urology, McGill University, Montreal, 
Quebec, Canada; Department of Radiation Oncology, McGill University Health 
Center, Montreal, Quebec, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Prostate cancer (PCa) is the most common non-skin cancer among men 
in developed countries. Several novel treatments have been adopted by healthcare 
systems to manage PCa. Most of the observational studies and randomized trials 
on PCa have concurrently evaluated fewer treatments over short follow-up. 
Further, preceding decision analytic models on PCa management have not evaluated 
various contemporary management options. Therefore, a contemporary decision 
analytic model was necessary to address limitations to the literature by 
synthesizing the evidence on novel treatments thereby forecasting short and 
long-term clinical outcomes.
OBJECTIVES: To develop and validate a Markov Monte Carlo model for the 
contemporary clinical management of PCa, and to assess the clinical burden of 
the disease from diagnosis to end-of-life.
METHODS: A Markov Monte Carlo model was developed to simulate the management of 
PCa in men 65 years and older from diagnosis to end-of-life. Health states 
modeled were: risk at diagnosis, active surveillance, active treatment, PCa 
recurrence, PCa recurrence free, metastatic castrate resistant prostate cancer, 
overall and PCa death. Treatment trajectories were based on state transition 
probabilities derived from the literature. Validation and sensitivity analyses 
assessed the accuracy and robustness of model predicted outcomes.
RESULTS: Validation indicated model predicted rates were comparable to observed 
rates in the published literature. The simulated distribution of clinical 
outcomes for the base case was consistent with sensitivity analyses. Predicted 
rate of clinical outcomes and mortality varied across risk groups. Life 
expectancy and health adjusted life expectancy predicted for the simulated 
cohort was 20.9 years (95%CI 20.5-21.3) and 18.2 years (95% CI 17.9-18.5), 
respectively.
CONCLUSION: Study findings indicated contemporary management strategies improved 
survival and quality of life in patients with PCa. This model could be used to 
compare long-term outcomes and life expectancy conferred of PCa management 
paradigms.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0113432
PMCID: PMC4256380
PMID: 25474006 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.121. PLoS Genet. 2014 Dec 4;10(12):e1004752. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004752. 
eCollection 2014 Dec.

Gene pathways that delay Caenorhabditis elegans reproductive senescence.

Wang MC(1), Oakley HD(2), Carr CE(3), Sowa JN(2), Ruvkun G(4).

Author information:
(1)Huffington Center on Aging, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, 
United States of America; Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, United States of America; Department of 
Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Massachusetts, United 
States of America; Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America.
(2)Huffington Center on Aging, Baylor College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, 
United States of America; Department of Molecular and Human Genetics, Baylor 
College of Medicine, Houston, Texas, United States of America.
(3)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America; Department of Earth, Atmospheric and 
Planetary Sciences, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, Cambridge, 
Massachusetts, United States of America.
(4)Department of Molecular Biology, Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, 
Massachusetts, United States of America; Department of Genetics, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts, United States of America.

Comment in
    PLoS Genet. 2014 Dec;10(12):e1004808.

Reproductive senescence is a hallmark of aging. The molecular mechanisms 
regulating reproductive senescence and its association with the aging of somatic 
cells remain poorly understood. From a full genome RNA interference (RNAi) 
screen, we identified 32 Caenorhabditis elegans gene inactivations that delay 
reproductive senescence and extend reproductive lifespan. We found that many of 
these gene inactivations interact with insulin/IGF-1 and/or TGF-β endocrine 
signaling pathways to regulate reproductive senescence, except nhx-2 and sgk-1 
that modulate sodium reabsorption. Of these 32 gene inactivations, we also found 
that 19 increase reproductive lifespan through their effects on oocyte 
activities, 8 of them coordinate oocyte and sperm functions to extend 
reproductive lifespan, and 5 of them can induce sperm humoral response to 
promote reproductive longevity. Furthermore, we examined the effects of these 
reproductive aging regulators on somatic aging. We found that 5 of these gene 
inactivations prolong organismal lifespan, and 20 of them increase healthy life 
expectancy of an organism without altering total life span. These studies 
provide a systemic view on the genetic regulation of reproductive senescence and 
its intersection with organism longevity. The majority of these newly identified 
genes are conserved, and may provide new insights into age-associated 
reproductive senescence during human aging.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004752
PMCID: PMC4256158
PMID: 25474471 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


122. PLoS One. 2014 Dec 4;9(12):e114339. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114339. 
eCollection 2014.

Modeling test and treatment strategies for presymptomatic Alzheimer disease.

Burke JF(1), Langa KM(2), Hayward RA(3), Albin RL(4).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United 
States of America; Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program, University of 
Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States of America; Center for Clinical 
Management Research, VAAAHS, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States of America.
(2)Dept. of Internal Medicine, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 
United States of America; Center for Clinical Management Research, VAAAHS, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, United States of America; Institute for Social Research, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States of America.
(3)Robert Wood Johnson Clinical Scholars Program, University of Michigan, Ann 
Arbor, Michigan, United States of America; Dept. of Internal Medicine, 
University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States of America; Center 
for Clinical Management Research, VAAAHS, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States of 
America.
(4)Dept. of Neurology, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United 
States of America; Geriatric Research, Education, and Clinical Center, and 
Neurology Service, VAAAHS, Ann Arbor, Michigan, United States of America; 
Michigan Alzheimer Disease Center, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 
United States of America.

OBJECTIVES: In this study, we developed a model of presymptomatic treatment of 
Alzheimer disease (AD) after a screening diagnostic evaluation and explored the 
circumstances required for an AD prevention treatment to produce aggregate net 
population benefit.
METHODS: Monte Carlo simulation methods were used to estimate outcomes in a 
simulated population derived from data on AD incidence and mortality. A wide 
variety of treatment parameters were explored. Net population benefit was 
estimated in aggregated QALYs. Sensitivity analyses were performed by 
individually varying the primary parameters.
FINDINGS: In the base-case scenario, treatment effects were uniformly positive, 
and net benefits increased with increasing age at screening. A highly 
efficacious treatment (i.e. relative risk 0.6) modeled in the base-case is 
estimated to save 20 QALYs per 1000 patients screened and 221 QALYs per 1000 
patients treated.
CONCLUSIONS: Highly efficacious presymptomatic screen and treat strategies for 
AD are likely to produce substantial aggregate population benefits that are 
likely greater than the benefits of aspirin in primary prevention of moderate 
risk cardiovascular disease (28 QALYS per 1000 patients treated), even in the 
context of an imperfect treatment delivery environment.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0114339
PMCID: PMC4256252
PMID: 25474698 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


123. Asia Pac J Public Health. 2015 Jan;27(1):29-32. doi:
10.1177/1010539514561085.  Epub 2014 Dec 3.

Progress in island health in the Asia-Pacific region.

Hokama T(1), Binns C(2).

Author information:
(1)University of the Ryukyus, Nishihara, Okinawa, Japan 
b987390@med.u-ryukyu.ac.jp.
(2)Curtin University, Perth, Western Australia, Australia.

The Asia-Pacific region contains many islands, perhaps up to 100 000. The 
provision of public health and health care to small isolated groups poses 
particular challenges in the 21st century. The health of island populations has 
improved over the past 3 decades, but maintaining and improving current levels 
of health is made more difficult by emigration and the difficulty of maintaining 
communications.

© 2014 APJPH.

DOI: 10.1177/1010539514561085
PMID: 25475082 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


124. Int Urol Nephrol. 2015 Apr;47(4):647-54. doi: 10.1007/s11255-014-0886-8.
Epub  2014 Dec 5.

Therapeutic alternatives and palliative care for advanced renal disease in the 
very elderly: a review of the literature.

Musso CG(1), Trigka K, Dousdampanis P, Jauregui J.

Author information:
(1)Ageing Biology Unit, Hospital Italiano de Buenos Aires, Buenos Aires, 
Argentina, carlos.musso@hospitalitaliano.org.ar.

The overall number of very elderly patients (>79 years of age) requiring renal 
replacement therapy is rising in the Western societies, with a choice for 
managing advanced chronic renal disease among hemodialysis, peritoneal dialysis, 
kidney transplant, conservative, or palliative care. The selection of the most 
adequate alternatives should be tailored to meet individual needs, considering 
variables such as patient's choice, clinical status, and social context, 
analyzed from a geriatric perspective, aiming not only to prolong patient's life 
expectancy, but also to improve the patient's quality of life. Frailty and 
sarcopenia are highly prevalent comorbidities found in very elderly population, 
particularly in the end-stage chronic renal disease population. Both 
comorbidities have a strong negative impact on health general status, and 
specific treatment should be provided in conjunction with the selected 
management for renal replacement, except when a palliative care has been 
implemented. Moreover, the detected degree of frailty in a renal patient can 
have an important influence on the decision about which modality of renal 
replacement treatment will be selected. All these alternatives and 
considerations are discussed in the present review article.

DOI: 10.1007/s11255-014-0886-8
PMID: 25475195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


125. Pharmacoeconomics. 2015 Apr;33(4):327-40. doi: 10.1007/s40273-014-0244-9.

Systematic review of cost-effectiveness analyses of treatments for psoriasis.

Zhang W(1), Islam N, Ma C, Anis AH.

Author information:
(1)Centre for Health Evaluation and Outcome Sciences, St. Paul's Hospital, 
588-1081 Burrard Street, Vancouver, BC, V6Z 1Y6, Canada.

BACKGROUND: Psoriasis is a chronic inflammatory disease of the skin that has a 
major effect on an individual's physical and mental function. The disease is 
associated with increased healthcare resource use and costs, therefore 
cost-effectiveness analysis (CEA) can be used to assist decision makers with 
determining which treatments are optimal within a constrained healthcare system 
budget.
OBJECTIVES: Our aim was to systematically review the current literature on the 
CEA of existing treatment options for psoriasis, assess the quality of these 
studies, and summarize the evidence on the drivers of cost effectiveness.
METHODS: A literature search using Medical Subject Headings and keywords was 
performed in the MEDLINE, EMBASE and Health Technology Assessment databases, as 
well as the National Health Service Economic Evaluation Database; the CEA 
Registry was searched using keywords only. All references within the relevant 
review articles were examined manually. Two researchers independently determined 
the final articles and a third researcher resolved any discrepancies. We 
evaluated study quality in terms of the study perspective, effectiveness 
measures, cost measures, economic model, and time horizon. Any sensitivity 
analyses conducted in the studies were examined to identify the drivers of cost 
effectiveness, which included any variables leading to changes in the study 
conclusions.
RESULTS: Fifty-three articles were included in our final review: 70% did not 
explicitly include costs related to adverse events; approximately one-quarter 
used quality-adjusted life-years; and 34% applied a time horizon under 1 year. 
In 18 of the 38 studies that conducted a sensitivity analysis, the 
cost-effectiveness results were impacted by uncertainty. The main key drivers of 
cost effectiveness were the costs related to the treatment, values and choice of 
efficacy, utility values, hospitalization for non-responders, time horizon, 
model structure, and utility mapping method.
CONCLUSIONS: High-quality cost-effectiveness studies are required to facilitate 
resource allocation decision making. To improve study quality, future research 
should provide evidence on the long-term experience with psoriasis treatments, 
and resolve the uncertainty associated with key drivers of cost effectiveness.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-014-0244-9
PMID: 25475964 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


126. Scott Med J. 2015 Feb;60(1):32-6. doi: 10.1177/0036933014563238. Epub 2014
Dec  4.

Long-term outcomes of patients on the 1988 West of Scotland renal transplant 
waiting list.

Murray EC(1), McMillan M(2).

Author information:
(1)Renal ST4 (LAT), Glasgow Renal and Transplant Unit, Western Infirmary, UK 
eleanormurray@doctors.org.uk.
(2)Consultant Renal Physician, Glasgow Renal and Transplant Unit, Western 
Infirmary, UK.

BACKGROUND: The prevalent population with established renal failure continues to 
grow.
METHOD: Using the Renal Electronic Patient Record, we assess the long-term 
outcomes of the adult population in the West of Scotland who were awaiting 
kidney transplantation in 1988 (n = 219), and compare the demographics to the 
2011 transplant waiting list (n = 409).
RESULTS: Comparing the 2011 transplant waiting list, there are now more 
patients, but they are older, more likely to be female, and are more likely to 
have diabetes as a cause of renal failure. Seventy-four percent received a 
transplant; of these, 41% of the transplants ultimately failed and the patient 
returned to dialysis; 39% of patients died with a functioning graft and 20% 
remain alive with continuing transplant function. Life expectancy for those with 
renal failure was less than 60 years, significantly lower than the general 
population, though 29% survived for 20 years, half of these with a functioning 
kidney transplant and half having returned to dialysis.
CONCLUSION: As survival with a transplant improves, attention is required to 
reduce the causes of mortality, in particular cardiovascular disease, and 
malignancy and infection associated with immunosuppression.

© The Author(s) 2014 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/0036933014563238
PMID: 25475974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2015 Jan;107(1):37-45. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2014.10.008. Epub 2014 Oct 23.

Active life expectancy of Americans with diabetes: risks of heart disease, 
obesity, and inactivity.

Laditka SB(1), Laditka JN(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health Sciences, and Associate Professor of Public 
Policy, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, 9201 University City 
Boulevard, Charlotte, NC 28223, United States of America. Electronic address: 
sladitka@uncc.edu.
(2)Department of Public Health Sciences, and Associate Professor of Public 
Policy, University of North Carolina at Charlotte, 9201 University City 
Boulevard, Charlotte, NC 28223, United States of America. Electronic address: 
jladitka@uncc.edu.

AIMS: Few researchers have studied whether diabetes itself is responsible for 
high rates of disability or mortality, or if factors associated with diabetes 
contribute importantly. We estimated associations of diabetes, heart disease, 
obesity, and physical inactivity with life expectancy (LE), the proportion of 
life with disability (DLE), and disability in the last year of life.
METHODS: Data were from the Panel Study of Income Dynamics (1999-2011 and 1986, 
African American and white women and men ages 55+, n=1,980, 17,352 
person-years). Activities of daily living defined disability. Multinomial 
logistic Markov models estimated disability transition probabilities adjusted 
for age, sex, race/ethnicity, education, and the health factors. Microsimulation 
measured outcomes.
RESULTS: White women and men exemplify results. LE was, for women: 3.5 years 
less with diabetes than without (95% confidence interval, 3.1-4.0), 11.1 less 
(10.3-12.0) adding heart disease, 21.9 less with all factors (15.3-28.5), all 
p<0.001. Corresponding results for men: 1.7 years (0.9-2.3, not significant), 
8.2 (6.8-9.5) and 18.1 (15.6-20.6), both p<0.001. DLE was, for women: 23.5% 
(21.7-25.4) with no risk factors, 27.1% (25.7-28.6) with diabetes alone, 34.6% 
(33.1-36.1) adding heart disease, 52.9% (38.9-66.8) with all factors, all 
p<0.001; for men: 13.2% (11.7-14.6), 16.3% (14.8-17.8, p<0.01); and 22.1% 
(20.5-23.7), 36.4% (25.0-47.8), both p<.001. Among people with diabetes, those 
with other conditions were much less likely to have no disability in the final 
year of life.
CONCLUSIONS: Much of the disability and mortality with diabetes was due to heart 
disease, obesity, and inactivity, risks that can be modified by health behaviors 
and medical care.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2014.10.008
PMID: 25476207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


128. Stroke. 2015 Jan;46(1):58-64. doi: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.114.006653. Epub 2014
Dec  4.

Cost-effectiveness of transfers to centers with neurological intensive care 
units after intracerebral hemorrhage.

Fletcher JJ(1), Kotagal V(2), Mammoser A(2), Peterson M(2), Morgenstern LB(2), 
Burke JF(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Departments of Neurosurgery (J.J.F., L.B.M.), Neurology (V.K., 
A.M.), Biostatistics (L.B.M.), Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (M.P.), and 
the Stroke Program (L.B.M., J.F.B.), University of Michigan, Ann Arbor; and 
Department of Neurology, Bronson Methodist Hospital, Kalamazoo, MI (J.J.F.). 
fletchje@bronsonhg.org.
(2)From the Departments of Neurosurgery (J.J.F., L.B.M.), Neurology (V.K., 
A.M.), Biostatistics (L.B.M.), Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation (M.P.), and 
the Stroke Program (L.B.M., J.F.B.), University of Michigan, Ann Arbor; and 
Department of Neurology, Bronson Methodist Hospital, Kalamazoo, MI (J.J.F.).

BACKGROUND AND PURPOSE: Our aim was to estimate the cost-effectiveness of 
transferring patients with intracerebral hemorrhage from centers without 
specialized neurological intensive care units (neuro-ICUs) to centers with 
neuro-ICUs.
METHODS: Decision analytic models were developed for the lifetime horizons. 
Model inputs were derived from the best available data, informed by a variety of 
previous cost-effectiveness models of stroke. The effect of neuro-ICU care on 
functional outcomes was modeled in 3 scenarios. A favorable outcomes scenario 
was modeled based on the best observational data and compared with moderately 
favorable and least-favorable outcomes scenarios. Health benefits were measured 
in quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and costs were estimated from a societal 
perspective. Costs were combined with QALYs gained to generate incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios. One-way sensitivity analysis and Monte Carlo 
simulations were performed to test robustness of the model assumptions.
RESULTS: Transferring patients to centers with neuro-ICUs yielded an incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio for the lifetime horizon of $47,431 per QALY, $91,674 
per QALY, and $380,358 per QALY for favorable, moderately favorable, and 
least-favorable scenarios, respectively. Models were robust at a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of $100,000 per QALY, with 95.5%, 75.0%, and 2.1% 
of simulations below the threshold for favorable, moderately favorable, and 
least-favorable scenarios, respectively.
CONCLUSIONS: Transferring patients with intracerebral hemorrhage to centers with 
specialized neuro-ICUs is cost-effective if observational estimates of the 
neuro-ICU-based functional outcome distribution are accurate. If future work 
confirms these functional outcome distributions, then a strong societal 
rationale exists to build systems of care designed to transfer intracerebral 
hemorrhage patients to specialized neuro-ICUs.

© 2014 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/STROKEAHA.114.006653
PMCID: PMC4276522
PMID: 25477220 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure The authors have no conflicts of 
interest to report pertaining to the materials or methods used in this study or 
the findings specified in this paper.


129. Arch Dis Child. 2015 Apr;100(4):334-40. doi:
10.1136/archdischild-2014-306701.  Epub 2014 Dec 4.

Potential economic impacts from improving breastfeeding rates in the UK.

Pokhrel S(1), Quigley MA(2), Fox-Rushby J(1), McCormick F(3), Williams A(4), 
Trueman P(1), Dodds R(5), Renfrew MJ(6).

Author information:
(1)Health Economics Research Group, Brunel University London, Uxbridge, UK.
(2)National Perinatal Epidemiology Unit, University of Oxford, Oxford, UK.
(3)Department of Health Sciences, University of York, York, UK.
(4)Department of Child Health, St. George's, University of London, London, UK.
(5)NCT (formerly National Childbirth Trust), London, UK.
(6)Mother and Infant Research Unit, School of Nursing and Midwifery, University 
of Dundee, Dundee, UK.

RATIONALE: Studies suggest that increased breastfeeding rates can provide 
substantial financial savings, but the scale of such savings in the UK is not 
known.
OBJECTIVE: To calculate potential cost savings attributable to increases in 
breastfeeding rates from the National Health Service perspective.
DESIGN AND SETTINGS: Cost savings focussed on where evidence of health benefit 
is strongest: reductions in gastrointestinal and lower respiratory tract 
infections, acute otitis media in infants, necrotising enterocolitis in preterm 
babies and breast cancer (BC) in women. Savings were estimated using a 
seven-step framework in which an incidence-based disease model determined the 
number of cases that could have been avoided if breastfeeding rates were 
increased. Point estimates of cost savings were subject to a deterministic 
sensitivity analysis.
RESULTS: Treating the four acute diseases in children costs the UK at least £89 
million annually. The 2009-2010 value of lifetime costs of treating maternal BC 
is estimated at £959 million. Supporting mothers who are exclusively breast 
feeding at 1 week to continue breast feeding until 4 months can be expected to 
reduce the incidence of three childhood infectious diseases and save at least 
£11 million annually. Doubling the proportion of mothers currently breast 
feeding for 7-18 months in their lifetime is likely to reduce the incidence of 
maternal BC and save at least £31 million at 2009-2010 value.
CONCLUSIONS: The economic impact of low breastfeeding rates is substantial. 
Investing in services that support women who want to breast feed for longer is 
potentially cost saving.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/archdischild-2014-306701
PMID: 25477310 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


130. Nucleic Acids Res. 2015 Jan;43(1):385-95. doi: 10.1093/nar/gku1277. Epub
2014  Dec 3.

Human cells lacking coilin and Cajal bodies are proficient in telomerase 
assembly, trafficking and telomere maintenance.

Chen Y(1), Deng Z(2), Jiang S(1), Hu Q(1), Liu H(1), Songyang Z(1), Ma W(1), 
Chen S(2), Zhao Y(3).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Gene Engineering of the Ministry of Education, Cooperative 
Innovation Center for High Performance Computing, School of Life Sciences, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, P.R. China.
(2)Key Laboratory of Combinatorial Biosynthesis and Drug Discovery, Ministry of 
Education, School of Pharmaceutical Sciences, Wuhan University, Wuhan 430071, 
P.R. China.
(3)Key Laboratory of Gene Engineering of the Ministry of Education, Cooperative 
Innovation Center for High Performance Computing, School of Life Sciences, Sun 
Yat-sen University, Guangzhou 510006, P.R. China zhaoy82@mail.sysu.edu.cn.

The RNA component of human telomerase (hTR) localizes to Cajal bodies, and it 
has been proposed that Cajal bodies play a role in the assembly of telomerase 
holoenzyme and telomerase trafficking. Here, the role of Cajal bodies was 
examined in Human cells deficient of coilin (i.e. coilin-knockout (KO) cells), 
in which no Cajal bodies are detected. In coilin-KO cells, a normal level of 
telomerase activity is detected and interactions between core factors of 
holoenzyme are preserved, indicating that telomerase assembly occurs in the 
absence of Cajal bodies. Moreover, dispersed hTR aggregates and forms foci 
specifically during S and G2 phase in coilin-KO cells. Colocalization of these 
hTR foci with telomeres implies proper telomerase trafficking, independent of 
Cajal bodies. Therefore, telomerase adds similar numbers of TTAGGG repeats to 
telomeres in coilin-KO and controls cells. Overexpression of TPP1-OB-fold blocks 
cell cycle-dependent formation of hTR foci and inhibits telomere extension. 
These findings suggest that telomerase assembly, trafficking and extension occur 
with normal efficiency in Cajal bodies deficient human cells. Thus, Cajal 
bodies, as such, are not essential in these processes, although it remains 
possible that non-coilin components of Cajal bodies and/or telomere binding 
proteins (e.g. TPP1) do play roles in telomerase biogenesis and telomere 
homeostasis.

© The Author(s) 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Nucleic 
Acids Research.

DOI: 10.1093/nar/gku1277
PMCID: PMC4288172
PMID: 25477378 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. J Food Sci Technol. 2014 Dec;51(12):3963-9. doi: 10.1007/s13197-012-0898-2.
Epub  2012 Nov 27.

Enhancing shelf life of minimally processed multiplier onion using silicone 
membrane.

Naik R(1), Ambrose DC(1), Raghavan GS(2), Annamalai SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Central Institute of Agricultural Engineering, Industrial Extension Project, 
TNAU campus, Coimbatore, 641 003 Tamil Nadu India.
(2)Department of Bioresources Engineering, Macdonald Campus, McGill University, 
21,111 Lakeshore, Ste. Anne -de-Bellevue, QC Canada H9x 3V9.

The aim of storage of minimal processed product is to increase the shelf life 
and thereby extend the period of availability of minimally processed produce. 
The silicone membrane makes use of the ability of polymer to permit selective 
passage of gases at different rates according to their physical and chemical 
properties. Here, the product stored maintains its own atmosphere by the 
combined effects of respiration process of the commodity and the diffusion rate 
through the membrane. A study was undertaken to enhance the shelf life of 
minimally processed multiplier onion with silicone membrane. The respiration 
activity was recorded at a temperature of 30 ± 2 °C (RH = 60 %) and 5 ± 1 °C 
(RH = 90 %). The respiration was found to be 23.4, 15.6, 10 mg CO2kg(-1)h(-1) at 
5 ± 1 °C and 140, 110, 60 mg CO2kg(-1) h(-1) at 30 ± 2° for the peeled, sliced 
and diced multiplier onion, respectively. The respiration rate for the fresh 
multiplier onion was recorded to be 5, 10 mg CO2kg(-1) h(-1) at 5 ± 1 °C and 
30 ± 1 ° C, respectively. Based on the shelf life studies and on the sensory 
evaluation, it was found that only the peeled multiplier onion could be stored. 
The sliced and diced multiplier onion did not have the required shelf life. The 
shelf life of the multiplier onion in the peel form could be increased from 
4-5 days to 14 days by using the combined effect of silicone membrane 
(6 cm(2)/kg) and low temperature (5 ± 1 °C).

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-012-0898-2
PMCID: PMC4252407
PMID: 25477667


132. Case Rep Med. 2014;2014:583282. doi: 10.1155/2014/583282. Epub 2014 Nov 13.

Spinal intramedullary metastasis of breast cancer.

Basaran R(1), Tiryaki M(1), Yavuzer D(2), Efendioglu M(1), Balkuv E(3), Sav 
A(4).

Author information:
(1)Dr. Lutfi Kirdar Kartal Education and Research Hospital, Department of 
Neurosurgery, Kartal, 34890 Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Dr. Lutfi Kirdar Kartal Education and Research Hospital, Department of 
Pathology, 34890 Istanbul, Turkey.
(3)Istanbul Medeniyet University Goztepe Education and Research Hospital, 
Department of Neurology, 34890 Istanbul, Turkey.
(4)Acibadem University School of Medicine, Department of Pathology, 34890 
Istanbul, Turkey.

Objective. Breast cancer accounts for approximately one-third of all cancers in 
females. Approximately 8.5 % of all central nervous system metastases are 
located in the spinal cord. These patients have rapidly progressing neurological 
deficits and require immediate examination. The aim of surgery is decompression 
of neural tissue and histological evaluation of the tumor. In this paper, we 
present a case of breast cancer metastasis in thoracic spinal intramedullary 
area which had been partially excised and then given adjuvant radiotherapy. 
Case. A 43-year-old female patient with breast cancer for 8 years was admitted 
to our hospital with complaints of weakness in both legs. Eight years ago, she 
received chemotherapy and radiotherapy. On her neurological examination, she had 
paraparesis (left lower extremity: 2/5, right lower extremity: 3/5) and urinary 
incontinence. Spinal MRI revealed a gadolinium enhancing intramedullary lesion. 
Pathologic examination of the lesion was consistent with breast carcinoma 
metastasis. The patient has been taken into radiotherapy. Conclusion. Spinal 
intramedullary metastasis of breast cancer is an extremely rare situation, but 
it has a high morbidity and mortality rate. Microsurgical resection is necessary 
for preservation or amelioration of neurological state and also for increased 
life expectancy and quality.

DOI: 10.1155/2014/583282
PMCID: PMC4247914
PMID: 25477971


133. J Thorac Dis. 2014 Nov;6(11):1632-9. doi:
10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2014.10.23.

Oxygen therapy for COPD.

McDonald CF(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Respiratory and Sleep Medicine, Austin Health, Heidelberg, 
Australia ; 2 Institute for Breathing and Sleep, Melbourne, VIC, Australia ; 3 
University of Melbourne, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.

Chronic obstructive pulmonary disease (COPD) is a leading cause of disability 
and death globally, characterised by progressive breathlessness, loss of 
function and, in its later stages, chronic hypoxaemia. Long-term continuous 
oxygen therapy increases life expectancy in patients with severe resting 
hypoxaemia. However, there are few data to support the use of oxygen in patients 
with only mild hypoxaemia and more research is required to determine any 
benefits of oxygen supplementation in COPD in such individuals.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2072-1439.2014.10.23
PMCID: PMC4255164
PMID: 25478203


134. J Neurosurg Spine. 2015 Feb;22(2):173-8. doi: 10.3171/2014.10.SPINE14359.
Epub  2014 Dec 5.

Quality of life outcomes after revision lumbar discectomy.

Lubelski D(1), Senol N, Silverstein MP, Alvin MD, Benzel EC, Mroz TE, Schlenk R.

Author information:
(1)Cleveland Clinic Lerner College of Medicine.

OBJECT: The authors investigated quality of life (QOL) outcomes after primary 
versus revision discectomy.
METHODS: A retrospective review was performed for all patients who had undergone 
a primary or revision discectomy at the Cleveland Clinic Center for Spine Health 
from January 2008 through December 2011. Among patients in the revision cohort, 
they identified those who needed a second revision discectomy. Patient QOL 
measures were recorded before and after surgery. These measures included 
responses to the EQ-5D health questionnaire, Patient Health Questionnaire-9, 
Pain and Disability Questionnaire, and quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). 
Cohorts were compared by using independent-sample t-tests and Fisher exact tests 
for continuous and categorical variables, respectively. Multivariable logistic 
regression was performed to adjust for confounding.
RESULTS: A total of 196 patients were identified (116 who underwent primary 
discectomy and 80 who underwent revision discectomy); average follow-up time was 
150 days. There were no preoperative QOL differences between groups. 
Postoperatively, both groups improved significantly in all QOL measures. For 
QALYs, the primary cohort improved by 0.25 points (p<0.001) and the revision 
cohort improved by 0.18 points (p<0.001). QALYs improved for significantly more 
patients in the primary than in the revision cohort (76% vs 59%, respectively; 
p=0.02), and improvement exceeded the minimum clinically important difference 
for more patients in the primary cohort (62% vs 45%, respectively; p=0.03). Of 
the 80 patients who underwent revision discectomy, yet another recurrent 
herniation (third herniation) occurred in 14 (17.5%). Of these, 4 patients 
(28.6%) chose to undergo a second revision discectomy and the other 10 (71.4%) 
underwent conservative management. For those who underwent a second revision 
discectomy, QOL worsened according to all questionnaire scores.
CONCLUSIONS: QOL, pain and disability, and psychosocial outcomes improved after 
primary and revision discectomy, but the improvement diminished after revision 
discectomy.

DOI: 10.3171/2014.10.SPINE14359
PMID: 25478822 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. Am J Case Rep. 2014 Dec 6;15:543-9. doi: 10.12659/AJCR.892313.

Plasmablastic lymphoma of the anal canal in an HIV-infected patient.

Chagas LA(1), Camilo GB(2), Machado DC(2), Vidal DR(3), de Oliveira CE(1), 
Toledo GC(4), Oria GP(5), Silva Mde F(6), Oliveira RV(1), Lopes AJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiology, State University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil.
(2)Postgraduate Programe in Medical Sciences, State University of Rio de 
Janeiro, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(3)Department of Clinical Medicine, State University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Therezinha de Jesus Hospital and Maternity, Faculty of Medical and Health 
Sciences of Juiz de Fora, Juiz de Fora, Brazil.
(5)University Hospital Dr. Miguel Riet Corrêa Jr., Federal University of Rio 
Grande, Rio Grande, Brazil.
(6)Department of Anatomic Pathology, State University of Rio de Janeiro, Rio de 
Janeiro, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: The advent of antiretroviral therapy increased the life expectancy 
of human immunodeficiency virus (HIV)-positive patients and, consequently, the 
morbidity and mortality due to neoplasms. Plasmablastic lymphoma is one such 
neoplasm that generally presents with involvement of the oral cavity; cases of 
extra-oral involvement are rare.
CASE REPORT: We report a case of plasmablastic lymphoma in a 46-year-old woman 
for whom the initial clinical manifestation was a painless perineal tumor 
accompanied by fecal incontinence.
CONCLUSIONS: The possibility of this neoplasm should be considered in patients 
with HIV/acquired immune deficiency syndrome (HIV/AIDS) because its early 
diagnosis is essential so that the start of the treatment is not delayed.

DOI: 10.12659/AJCR.892313
PMCID: PMC4260690
PMID: 25479715 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Clin Res Cardiol. 2015 Mar;104(3):197-207. doi: 10.1007/s00392-014-0765-4.
Epub  2014 Dec 6.

Pulmonary hypertension 2015: current definitions, terminology, and novel 
treatment options.

Rosenkranz S(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinic III for Internal Medicine, Center for Molecular Medicine Cologne 
(CMMC), Cologne Cardiovascular Research Center (CCRC), Heart Center at the 
University of Cologne, Kerpener Str. 62, 50937, Cologne, Germany, 
Stephan.Rosenkranz@uk-koeln.de.

Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is a common phenomenon that may occur as a 
consequence of various diseases (e.g., heart failure, chronic lung diseases, and 
pulmonary embolism), as a distinct disease of the small pulmonary arterioles, or 
a combination of both. Independently from the origin, PH has important impact on 
patient´s symptoms and life expectancy. The establishment of an exact diagnosis 
and classification, as well as the understanding of the hemodynamic 
interrelations, provides the basis for often challenging treatment decisions. 
Recently, the 5th World Symposium on PH took place in Nice, France, where 
important standards and definitions were specified. Furthermore, the results of 
recent phase III trials have led to the approval of new targeted therapies. The 
most relevant developments including the rating of novel treatment options are 
summarized in this article.

DOI: 10.1007/s00392-014-0765-4
PMID: 25479818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


137. J Cardiothorac Vasc Anesth. 2014 Dec;28(6):1660-6. doi: 
10.1053/j.jvca.2014.07.009.

Cost-effectiveness in goal-directed therapy: are the dollars spent worth the 
value?

Ebm CC(1), Sutton L(1), Rhodes A(1), Cecconi M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of General Intensive Care, St. Georges Healthcare Trust, Blackshaw 
Road, London, United Kingdom.
(2)Department of General Intensive Care, St. Georges Healthcare Trust, Blackshaw 
Road, London, United Kingdom. Electronic address: m.cecconi@nhs.net.

DOI: 10.1053/j.jvca.2014.07.009
PMID: 25479922 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


138. Eur J Health Econ. 2016 Mar;17(2):117-27. doi: 10.1007/s10198-014-0657-6.
Epub  2014 Dec 6.

Are some QALYs more equal than others?

van de Wetering EJ(1), van Exel NJ(2), Rose JM(3), Hoefman RJ(2), Brouwer WB(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Health Policy and Management and Institute for Medical 
Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, DR, 3000, The 
Netherlands. vandewetering@bmg.eur.nl.
(2)Institute of Health Policy and Management and Institute for Medical 
Technology Assessment, Erasmus University Rotterdam, Rotterdam, DR, 3000, The 
Netherlands.
(3)Institute of Transport and Logistics Studies, The University of Sydney, 
Sydney, Australia.

Including societal preferences in allocation decisions is an important challenge 
for the health care sector. Here, we present results of a phased discrete choice 
experiment investigating the impact of various attributes on respondents' 
preferences for distribution of health and health care. In addition to the 
renowned equity principles severity of illness (operationalized as initial 
health) and fair innings (operationalized as age), some characteristics of 
beneficiaries (culpability and having dependents) and the disease (rarity) were 
included in the choice experiment. We used a nested logit model to analyse the 
data. We found that all selected attributes significantly influenced 
respondents' choices. The phased inclusion showed that additional attributes 
affected respondents' preferences for previously-included attributes and reduced 
unobserved variance. Although not all these attributes may be considered 
relevant for decision making from a normative perspective, including them in 
choice experiments contributes to our understanding of societal preferences for 
each single attribute.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-014-0657-6
PMID: 25479937 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Am J Physiol Lung Cell Mol Physiol. 2015 Feb 1;308(3):L287-300. doi: 
10.1152/ajplung.00229.2014. Epub 2014 Dec 5.

Hypoxia-induced glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase overexpression and -activation 
in pulmonary artery smooth muscle cells: implication in pulmonary hypertension.

Chettimada S(1), Gupte R(1), Rawat D(1), Gebb SA(2), McMurtry IF(3), Gupte 
SA(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Medicine, 
University of South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama;
(2)Department of Cell Biology and Neurosciences, College of Medicine, University 
of South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama;
(3)Department of Pharmacology, College of Medicine, University of South Alabama, 
Mobile, Alabama; Department of Medicine, College of Medicine, University of 
South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama; and Center for Lung Biology, College of 
Medicine, University of South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama.
(4)Department of Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, College of Medicine, 
University of South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama; Center for Lung Biology, College 
of Medicine, University of South Alabama, Mobile, Alabama s_gupte@nymc.edu.

Severe pulmonary hypertension is a debilitating disease with an alarmingly low 
5-yr life expectancy. Hypoxia, one of the causes of pulmonary hypertension, 
elicits constriction and remodeling of the pulmonary arteries. We now know that 
pulmonary arterial remodeling is a consequence of hyperplasia and hypertrophy of 
pulmonary artery smooth muscle (PASM), endothelial, myofibroblast, and stem 
cells. However, our knowledge about the mechanisms that cause these cells to 
proliferate and hypertrophy in response to hypoxic stimuli is still incomplete, 
and, hence, the treatment for severe pulmonary arterial hypertension is 
inadequate. Here we demonstrate that the activity and expression of 
glucose-6-phosphate dehydrogenase (G6PD), the rate-limiting enzyme of the 
pentose phosphate pathway, are increased in hypoxic PASM cells and in lungs of 
chronic hypoxic rats. G6PD overexpression and -activation is stimulated by H2O2. 
Increased G6PD activity contributes to PASM cell proliferation by increasing Sp1 
and hypoxia-inducible factor 1α (HIF-1α), which directs the cells to synthesize 
less contractile (myocardin and SM22α) and more proliferative (cyclin A and 
phospho-histone H3) proteins. G6PD inhibition with dehydroepiandrosterone 
increased myocardin expression in remodeled pulmonary arteries of moderate and 
severe pulmonary hypertensive rats. These observations suggest that altered 
glucose metabolism and G6PD overactivation play a key role in switching the PASM 
cells from the contractile to synthetic phenotype by increasing Sp1 and HIF-1α, 
which suppresses myocardin, a key cofactor that maintains smooth muscle cell in 
contractile state, and increasing hypoxia-induced PASM cell growth, and hence 
contribute to pulmonary arterial remodeling and pathogenesis of pulmonary 
hypertension.

Copyright © 2015 the American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/ajplung.00229.2014
PMCID: PMC4338932
PMID: 25480333 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. BMC Med. 2014 Dec 5;12:236. doi: 10.1186/s12916-014-0236-9.

The burden of disease in Spain: results from the global burden of disease study 
2010.

Haro JM(1)(2), Tyrovolas S(3)(4), Garin N(5)(6), Diaz-Torne C(7), Carmona L(8), 
Sanchez-Riera L(9)(10), Perez-Ruiz F(11), Murray CJ(12).

Author information:
(1)Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Universitat de Barcelona, Fundació Sant Joan 
de Déu. Dr Antoni Pujades, 42, 08830 Sant Boi de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. 
jmharo@pssjd.org.
(2)Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de 
Salud Mental CIBERSAM, Dr. Esquerdo 46, 28007, Madrid, Spain. jmharo@pssjd.org.
(3)Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Universitat de Barcelona, Fundació Sant Joan 
de Déu. Dr Antoni Pujades, 42, 08830 Sant Boi de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. 
s.tyrovolas@pssjd.org.
(4)Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de 
Salud Mental CIBERSAM, Dr. Esquerdo 46, 28007, Madrid, Spain. 
s.tyrovolas@pssjd.org.
(5)Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Universitat de Barcelona, Fundació Sant Joan 
de Déu. Dr Antoni Pujades, 42, 08830 Sant Boi de Llobregat, Barcelona, Spain. 
noe.garin@pssjd.org.
(6)Instituto de Salud Carlos III, Centro de Investigación Biomédica en Red de 
Salud Mental CIBERSAM, Dr. Esquerdo 46, 28007, Madrid, Spain. 
noe.garin@pssjd.org.
(7)Unitat de Reumatologia. Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Universitat 
Autònoma de Barcelona, Carrer de Sant Quintí, 89, 08026, Barcelona, Spain. 
cesardiaztorne@gmail.com.
(8)Instituto de Salud Musculoesquelética (InMusc), Calle Hilarión, Eslava 2, 
28015, , Madrid, Spain. loreto.carmona@inmusc.eu.
(9)Institute of Bone and Joint Research, Royal North Shore Hospital, University 
of Sydney, Pacific Hwy, St Leonards, New South Wales, 2065, Australia. 
