of 11.370 YPLL. Regarding cervical cancer, the figure obtained was 91.625 YPLL 
from 2000 to 2010, with an average of 8.329 YPLL. Increased risk of death from 
breast cancer was observed for women aged 50 to 59 years, with a significant 
increase among those in the age group from 40 to 49 years. There was an 
increased rate of cervical cancer among women 40 to 69 years.
CONCLUSIONS: The risk of death grows with increasing age, being higher from 40 
years. Prevention is paramount for both cancers. Thus, preventive measures are 
required and a reassessment of political strategies should be adopted.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2014.15.23.10313
PMID: 25556467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


345. Expert Rev Cardiovasc Ther. 2015 Feb;13(2):121-3. doi: 
10.1586/14779072.2015.1000305. Epub 2015 Jan 5.

Percutaneous closure of patent foramen ovale: safe and effective but 
underutilized.

Nietlispach F(1), Meier B.

Author information:
(1)University Heart Center Zurich, Zurich, Switzerland.

With three recently published randomized trials on patent foramen ovale (PFO) 
closure, the concept of PFO closure to reduce recurrent strokes has been proven; 
however, PFO closure is currently only considered for secondary prevention. 
Given the potential devastating consequences of a PFO-related event, we advocate 
screening for and closure of a PFO for primary prevention in high-risk 
populations. Such populations include patients who are suffering from a disease 
that is associated with PFO (e.g., migraine) or patients with high-risk 
hobbies/professions (e.g., weight-lifters, frequent-flyers, and deep sea 
divers). Looking at young people with a remaining average life expectancy of 50 
years, we have to close 2.4 PFOs to prevent one stroke. This should support a 
more proactive attitude toward PFO screening and closure.

DOI: 10.1586/14779072.2015.1000305
PMID: 25556896 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


346. Eur J Health Econ. 2018 Mar;19(2):177-187. doi: 10.1007/s10198-014-0662-9.
Epub  2015 Jan 4.

A cost-benefit analysis of the immunisation of children against respiratory 
syncytial virus (RSV) using the English Hospital Episode Statistics (HES) data 
set.

Thomas G(1).

Author information:
(1)Hertfordshire Business School, University of Hertfordshire, Hatfield, 
Hertfordshire, AL10 9AB, UK. d.g.thomas@herts.ac.uk.

Respiratory syncytial virus (RSV) is a common cause of respiratory infection 
that is highly prevalent in infants, particularly those with underlying medical 
conditions. Severe cases of RSV require hospitalisation as well as admission to 
intensive care and may even result in death. The objective of the study was to 
measure the net benefits that could arise from an immunisation programme of 
infants that may well eradicate RSV to a high degree and save the direct and 
indirect medical care costs from hospitalisation, morbidity and the gain from 
potential life-time earnings by reducing the probability of mortality. In this 
context, the majority of existing empirical investigations are based on data 
from clinical trials, and where relevant facts are not available, a series of 
strong assumptions is derived from the published literature, whereas in this 
study, for the first time, the hospital episode statistics database is used to 
calculate the cost-benefit ratios. The methodology of the analysis adopts a 
cost-benefit approach to assess the impact of the immunisation and whether it is 
beneficial to society. The underlying assumptions of the basic model are 
assessed by adopting a sensitivity analysis. The results show that a number of 
categories are cost-effective with the use of the passive drug, which means 
benefits by raising the life expectancy and quality as well as reducing the 
resource burden on society.

DOI: 10.1007/s10198-014-0662-9
PMID: 25557555 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


347. Soc Sci Med. 2015 Feb;127:1-7. doi: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.12.029. Epub
2014  Dec 24.

Educational attainment and adult health: under what conditions is the 
association causal?

Montez JK(1), Friedman EM(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Case Western Reserve University, Mather Memorial 
Building 223D, Cleveland, OH 44106, USA. Electronic address: 
jennifer.montez@case.edu.
(2)RAND Corporation, 1776 Main Street, Santa Monica, CA 90401, USA. Electronic 
address: friedman@rand.org.

DOI: 10.1016/j.socscimed.2014.12.029
PMID: 25557617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


348. Hepatology. 2015 May;61(5):1485-94. doi: 10.1002/hep.27681. Epub 2015 Mar
20.

Sofosbuvir compassionate use program for patients with severe recurrent 
hepatitis C after liver transplantation.

Forns X(1), Charlton M, Denning J, McHutchison JG, Symonds WT, Brainard D, 
Brandt-Sarif T, Chang P, Kivett V, Castells L, Prieto M, Fontana RJ, Baumert TF, 
Coilly A, Londoño MC, Habersetzer F.

Author information:
(1)Liver Unit, IDIBAPS, CIBEREHD, Hospital Clinic, University of Barcelona, 
Barcelona, Spain.

Recurrent hepatitis C virus (HCV) infection after liver transplantation (LT) is 
associated with accelerated progression of liver disease, frequently leading to 
graft loss and early death. Existing treatment options for severe recurrent HCV 
infection are limited by suboptimal efficacy, poor tolerability, and numerous 
drug interactions. We provided sofosbuvir (SOF) and ribavirin (RBV) on a 
compassionate-use basis to patients with severe recurrent hepatitis C, including 
those with fibrosing cholestatic hepatitis (FCH) and decompensated cirrhosis who 
had a life expectancy of 1 year or less. All patients were to receive 24-48 
weeks of SOF plus RBV. Investigators could add pegylated interferon to the 
regimen at their discretion. Data from the first 104 patients who completed or 
prematurely discontinued treatment by January 1, 2014 are presented. Of the 104 
patients analyzed, 52 had an early severe recurrence (diagnosed <12 months after 
LT) and 52 had cirrhosis (diagnosed >12 months after LT). Twelve patients who 
underwent retransplantation were excluded from our efficacy analysis. Of the 92 
patients assessed, 54 (59%) achieved sustained virological response (SVR) at 12 
weeks after the end of treatment, with a higher rate (73%; 35 of 48) in patients 
with early severe recurrence. Of the 103 patients assessed for clinical outcome, 
59 (57%) reported clinical improvement at the last study visit, 23 (22%) were 
unchanged, 3 (3%) had a worsened clinical status, and 13 (13%) died. Overall, 
123 serious adverse events (SAEs) occurred in 49 patients (47%). SAEs associated 
with hepatic decompensation were the most frequent, with 26 SAEs occurring in 19 
patients (18%).
CONCLUSION: SOF and RBV provide high rates of SVR in patients with severe 
recurrent HCV, including patients with early severe recurrence, FCH, and 
cirrhosis.

© 2015 by the American Association for the Study of Liver Diseases.

DOI: 10.1002/hep.27681
PMID: 25557906 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


349. Int J Yoga. 2015 Jan;8(1):54-61. doi: 10.4103/0973-6131.146063.

Yoga for correction of lymphedema's impairment of gait as an adjunct to 
lymphatic drainage: A pilot observational study.

Aggithaya MG(1), Narahari SR(1), Ryan TJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Applied Dermatology, IAD Junction, Uliyathadka, Kasaragod, 
Kerala, India.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Churchill Hospital, Oxford, UK.

INTRODUCTION: Yoga used as a major component of integrative treatment protocol 
in 14 Indian village camps improved quality-of-life in 425 lymphatic filariasis 
patients. They experienced better mobility and reduced disability. This paper 
documents the gait abnormalities observed in lower limb lymphedema patients and 
the locomotor changes following integrative treatment.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Yoga postures were performed as explained by traditional 
yoga practice in two sessions: Before ayurvedic oil massage without compression 
bandages and after the massage with compression bandages. Each yoga posture 
lasted for 5 min and the whole session ended in 45 min. Throughout each session, 
we advised patients to do long, diaphragmatic breathing, concentrating on each 
breath. The flexion of joints was coordinated with exhalation and extension with 
inhalation. We educated the patients to do longer expiration than inspiration.
RESULTS AND DISCUSSION: A total of 98 patients (133 limbs) attending the 6(th) 
month follow-up were evaluated. The most common gait abnormality was antalgic 
gait. Structural and functional abnormalities were observed in hip, knee and 
ankle joints. We found that yoga as an adjunct to other components in 
integrative treatment improved the gait problems. Long standing lymphedema 
caused altered gait and joint deformities. This was mostly due to inactivity 
causing muscle weakness and edema within and around the muscles. Both large and 
small limbs have shown significant volume reduction (P < 0.01) during follow-up 
after 6 months.
CONCLUSION: There can be a mixed etiology for gait related problems in 
lymphedema patients. Further studies are recommended to understand the causes of 
deformities in lymphedema patients and an exact role of yoga.

DOI: 10.4103/0973-6131.146063
PMCID: PMC4278136
PMID: 25558134

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest: None declared.


350. Duodecim. 2014;130(18):1843-50.

[Inevitable senile death].

[Article in Finnish]

Saksela E(1).

Author information:
(1)Espoo.

Many systems essential to ontogenesis become inappropriate in later life, 
leading to the ageing of cells and loss of regenerative capacity. Ageing tissues 
are thus increasingly susceptible to chronic diseases associated with ageing. 
Upon statistical analysis, the elimination of these diseases would bring about 
only approximately 15 additional years to the life expectancy. With developing 
therapies, the making of a precise disease diagnosis upon the eventual death 
will become increasingly difficult, whereby the term frailty syndrome is 
utilized.

PMID: 25558626 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


351. Vestn Ross Akad Med Nauk. 2014;(5-6):124-8. doi:
10.15690/vramn.v69i5-6.1056.

[Informatization of personalized adaptation medicine programs].

[Article in Russian]

Ushakov IB, Bogomolov AV.

State of art of personalized monitoring programs informatization and improvement 
of human adaptation abilities as one of the preferred direction of personalized 
(individualized, personalized) medicine which is focused on disclosure of 
potential and adaptive capabilities of human body and increase of life 
expectancy by means of directed patient-associated diagnostic and treatment 
effects on the basis of genetic influences of exogenous and regional factors are 
described. Biomedical concepts which are the background of monitoring and 
improvement of the implementation of human adaptation abilities that are 
designed by experts in the field of aerospace medicine and are the foundation of 
personalized non-drug medicine are defined: occupational health, preventive 
health changes cascade concept, concept of similar conditions, biological age, 
health-related quality of life concept, software risk-metric health information 
concept and telecommunication technologies for monitoring of human health 
information technology certification. The characteristics of the present stage 
of development of personalized non-drug medicine are issued.

DOI: 10.15690/vramn.v69i5-6.1056
PMID: 25558693 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


352. Aust N Z J Public Health. 2015 Feb;39(1):26-31. doi:
10.1111/1753-6405.12300.  Epub 2015 Jan 5.

Higher prevalence of left ventricular hypertrophy in two Māori cohorts: findings 
from the Hauora Manawa/Community Heart Study.

Whalley GA(1), Pitama S, Troughton RW, Doughty RN, Gamble GD, Gillies T, Wells 
JE, Faatoese A, Huria T, Richards M, Cameron VA.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Social and Health Sciences, Unitec, New Zealand.

OBJECTIVES: Cardiovascular disease (CVD) is the leading cause of mortality in 
New Zealand with a disproportionate burden of disease in the Māori population. 
The Hauora Manawa Project investigated the prevalence of cardiovascular risk 
factors and CVD in randomly selected Māori and non-Māori participants. This 
paper reports the prevalence of structural changes in the heart.
METHODS: A total of 252 rural Māori, 243 urban Māori; and 256 urban non-Māori 
underwent echocardiography to assess cardiac structure and function. 
Multivariable logistic regression was used to determine variables associated 
with heart size.
RESULTS: Left ventricular (LV) mass measurements were largest in the rural Māori 
cohort (183.5,sd 61.4), intermediate in the urban Māori cohort (169.7,sd 57.1) 
and smallest in the non-Māori cohort (152.6,sd 46.7; p<0.001). Similar patterns 
were observed for other measurements and indexation had no impact. One-third 
(32.3%) met the gender-based ASE criteria for LV hypertrophy (LVH) with higher 
prevalence in both Maori cohorts (highest in the rural cohort). There were three 
significant predictors of LVH: rural Māori (p=0.0001); age (p<0.0001); and 
gender (p=0.0048).
CONCLUSION: Structural and functional heart abnormalities are more prevalent in 
Māori compared to non-Māori, and especially rural Māori. Early identification 
should lead to better management, ultimately improving life expectancy and 
quality of life.

© 2014 Public Health Association of Australia.

DOI: 10.1111/1753-6405.12300
PMID: 25558958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


353. J Hosp Infect. 2015 Feb;89(2):99-108. doi: 10.1016/j.jhin.2014.10.002. Epub
2014  Oct 24.

Cost-effectiveness of interferon-gamma release assay for systematic tuberculosis 
screening of healthcare workers in low-incidence countries.

Kowada A(1), Takasaki J(2), Kobayashi N(3).

Author information:
(1)General Affairs Department, Ota City, Tokyo, Japan. Electronic address: 
kowadaa@gmail.com.
(2)Division of Pulmonary Medicine, National Centre for Global Health and 
Medicine, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)National Hospital Organization, Tokyo National Hospital, Tokyo, Japan.

BACKGROUND: Tuberculosis (TB) is one of the important occupationally acquired 
infectious diseases in low-incidence countries. Delays in TB diagnosis and 
treatment among healthcare workers (HCWs) result in costly large-scale TB 
contact screening among patients and other HCWs.
AIM: To assess the cost-effectiveness of TB screening for HCWs using 
interferon-gamma release assays (IGRAs) compared with tuberculin skin test (TST) 
and chest x ray (CXR).
METHODS: Markov models were constructed using a hospital payer perspective. The 
target populations were a hypothetical cohort of 30-year-old HCWs at the time of 
employment, and a hypothetical cohort of HCWs working on a high-risk ward until 
60 years of age. Six strategies were modelled: TST, QuantiFERON-TB Gold In-Tube 
(QFT), T-SPOT.TB (T-SPOT), TST followed by QFT, TST followed by T-SPOT, and CXR. 
The main outcome measure of effectiveness was quality-adjusted life-years 
(QALYs). Costs and QALYs gained per person screened were calculated.
FINDINGS: QFT was the most cost-effective strategy at the 'willingness to pay' 
level of US$ 50,000/QALYs gained (at the time of employment: US$ 334.91, 21.071 
QALYs; on a high-risk ward: US$ 1050.32, 20.968 QALYs; values for 2012). 
Cost-effectiveness was sensitive to latent TB infection (LTBI) rate and bacillus 
Calmette-Guérin vaccination rate. TST followed by QFT was more cost-effective 
than QFT when the LTBI rate was <0.026 at the time of employment and <0.08 on a 
high-risk ward.
CONCLUSION: Systematic TB screening using QFT is cost-effective for screening 
HCWs, and is recommended in low-incidence countries.

Copyright © 2014 The Healthcare Infection Society. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jhin.2014.10.002
PMID: 25559158 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


354. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2015 Mar;135(3):345-9. doi:
10.1007/s00402-014-2143-0.  Epub 2015 Jan 6.

Bilateral nonunion of the sacrum in a long-term paraplegic patient treated with 
trans-sacral bar and spinopelvic fixation.

Kanezaki S(1), Rommens PM.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedics and Traumatology, University Medical Center, 
Johannes Gutenberg-University, Langenbeckstrasse 1, 55131, Mainz, Germany, 
kanezaki@oita-u.ac.jp.

The incidence of fragility fractures of the pelvis is sharply increasing in 
accordance with growing life expectancy in developed countries. Numerous 
conditions may compromise bone density and quality, and paraplegia due to spinal 
cord injury is one of them. As screw anchorage is often problematic in poor bone 
stock, spinopelvic dissociation demands a type of osteosynthesis, which is less 
dependent on the density of trabecular bone. We present a case of a paraplegic 
45-year-old man, with non-displaced bilateral nonunion of the sacrum. The 
patient was treated with trans-sacral bar and spinopelvic fixation. Rapid relief 
from pain and functional recovery was achieved with complete bone healing 1 year 
after the operation.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-014-2143-0
PMID: 25559304 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


355. Obstet Gynecol. 2015 Jan;125(1):212-226. doi: 10.1097/AOG.0000000000000581.

Vaccinations for pregnant women.

Swamy GK(1), Heine RP.

Author information:
(1)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Division of Maternal-Fetal Medicine, 
Duke University, Durham, North Carolina.

In the United States, eradication and reduction of vaccine-preventable diseases 
through immunization has directly increased life expectancy by reducing 
mortality. Although immunization is a public priority, vaccine coverage among 
adult Americans is inadequate. The Institute of Medicine, the Community 
Preventive Services Task Force, and other public health entities have called for 
the development of innovative programs to incorporate adult vaccination into 
routine clinical practice. Obstetrician-gynecologists are well suited to serve 
as vaccinators of women in general and more specifically pregnant women. 
Pregnant women are at risk for vaccine-preventable disease-related morbidity and 
mortality and adverse pregnancy outcomes, including congenital anomalies, 
spontaneous abortion, preterm birth, and low birth weight. In addition to 
providing direct maternal benefit, vaccination during pregnancy likely provides 
direct fetal and neonatal benefit through passive immunity (transplacental 
transfer of maternal vaccine-induced antibodies). This article reviews: 1) types 
of vaccines; 2) vaccines specifically recommended during pregnancy and 
postpartum; 3) vaccines recommended during pregnancy and postpartum based on 
risk factors and special circumstances; 4) vaccines currently under research and 
development for licensure for maternal-fetal immunization; and 5) barriers to 
maternal immunization and available patient and health care provider resources.

DOI: 10.1097/AOG.0000000000000581
PMCID: PMC4286306
PMID: 25560127 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


356. Glob J Health Sci. 2014 Aug 14;7(1):98-106. doi: 10.5539/gjhs.v7n1p98.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of trastuzumab in the adjuvant treatment for early 
breast cancer.

Aboutorabi A(1), Hadian M, Ghaderi H, Salehi M, Ghiasipour M.

Author information:
(1)Department. of Health Economics, School of Health management and information 
science, Iran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
a.abutorabi@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: Evidence from randomized controlled trials (RCTs) has shown a 
significant survival advantage of trastuzumab. Although extant work in developed 
countries examined economic evaluation of trastuzumab in adjuvant treatment for 
early breast cancer based on the 1-year treatment, there is uncertainty about 
cost-effectiveness of trastuzumab in the Adjuvant Treatment of early breast 
cancer in developing countries. This study aimed to estimate cost-effectiveness 
of adjuvant trastuzumab therapy compared to AC-T regimen in early breast cancer 
in Iran.
METHODS: A cost-effectiveness analysis was performed using a Markov model to 
estimate outcomes and costs over a 20-year time period using a cohort of women 
with HER2 positive early breast cancer, treated with or without 12 months 
trastuzumab adjuvant chemotherapy. Transition probabilities were derived mainly 
from the BCIRG006 trial. Costs were estimated from the perspective of the 
Iranian health care system. Both costs and outcomes were discounted by 3%. 
One-way sensitivity analysis was undertaken to assess the associated 
uncertainties in the expected output measures.
RESULTS: On the basis of BCIRG006 trial, our model showed that adjuvant 
trastuzumab treatment in early breast cancer, yield 0.87 quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALY) compared with AC-T regimen. Adjuvant trastuzumab treatment 
yielded an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of US$ 51302 per QALY.
CONCLUSION: By using threshold of 3 times GDP per capita, as per World Health 
Organization (WHO) recommendation, 12 months trastuzumab adjuvant chemotherapy 
is not a cost-effective therapy for patients with HER2-positive breast cancer in 
Iran.

DOI: 10.5539/gjhs.v7n1p98
PMCID: PMC4796396
PMID: 25560346 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


357. Chirurgia (Bucur). 2014 Nov-Dec;109(6):806-11.

Involvement of reactive oxygen species in the mechanisms associated with 
cervical cancer specific treatment.

Marinescu S, Anghel R, Gruia MI, Beuran M.

Cervical cancer represents a genuine health issue in Romania.The courses of 
treatment applied are complex, and the accompanying biochemical mechanisms are 
yet to be fully understood. Thus, radiotherapy, which induces reactive oxygen 
species, can lead to failure of treatment in hypoxic tissues,tissues which are 
difficult to identify due to the small quantity in which these cytotoxic species 
are produced. As a result, the aim of this paper is to identify the production 
and role of reactive oxygen species, as well as the manner of activation of 
endogenous antioxidant defense mechanisms in cervical cancer patients admitted 
to the Oncologic Institute of Bucharest. To this purpose the biochemical 
parameters of oxidative stress were identified in 30 patients with cervical 
tumour localization, prior to surgery. The results obtained have showed that a 
production of reactive oxygen species is identifiable in these patients, having 
lipids as a primary target and leading to their peroxidation. The extension of 
protein oxidative degradation takes place at a much lower value, as well as the 
activation of endogenous antioxidant defence systems, comparing to our 
expectations. To conclude,we consider that when the production of active oxygen 
metabolites takes place in small concentrations, associated with hypoxia, the 
signals transmitted are towards modifying the phenotype under anaerobic 
conditions into one activating neo vascularization, angiogenesis initiation, new 
cell growth and proliferation. The moment that this phase is overcome anew 
oxidative stress is installed, one potentially destructive for biomolecules 
essential to life, but also useful for further treatment, such as radiotherapy.

Celsius.

PMID: 25560505 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


358. Eur J Haematol. 2015 Feb;94 Suppl 77:23-9. doi: 10.1111/ejh.12498.

Prevention and treatment of atherosclerosis in haemophilia - how to balance risk 
of bleeding with risk of ischaemic events.

de Raucourt E(1), Roussel-Robert V, Zetterberg E.

Author information:
(1)HUPVNS, Hôpital Beaujon, Service d'Hematologie Biologique, Clichy and Centre 
d'Hémophilie Hopital Mignot, Le Chesnay, France.

Life expectancy for patients with haemophilia (PWH) has significantly increased 
in the last decades, due to improvement of clotting factor replacement therapy. 
However, despite a lower cardiovascular mortality rate and contrasting 
prevalence for non-fatal ischaemic heart disease (IHD), cardiovascular diseases 
are increasing in PWH. The prevalence of cardiovascular risk factors in PWH is 
as prevalent as in the general population, whereas an increased risk of 
hypertension has been observed in some studies. Furthermore, PWH are not 
protected against atherosclerosis. Coronary artery disease treatment is 
extremely challenging in PWH. Two 'institutional' guidelines for the management 
of IHD in PWH have been published. Since these recommendations, the use of new 
drugs such as prasugrel, ticagrelor, bivalirudin, new oral anticoagulants and 
new drug-eluting stents have been recommended in the general population but 
should be evaluated in PWH. Some questions arise: which trough level during 
long-term single or dual antiplatelet treatment (DAT) is really needed? The 
clinical role of platelet testing remains ill defined but may be considered in 
selected patients. A multidisciplinary approach is necessary for the management 
of IHD in PWH in order to treat the patient as any patient according to the 
cardiological guidelines during the acute phase, and long-term management should 
be discussed.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons A/S. Published by John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/ejh.12498
PMID: 25560791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


359. Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2015 May;473(5):1702-8. doi:
10.1007/s11999-014-4110-z.  Epub 2015 Jan 6.

Short-term complications have more effect on cost-effectiveness of THA than 
implant longevity.

Shearer DW(1), Youm J, Bozic KJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopaedic Surgery, University of California, San Francisco, 
500 Parnassus Avenue, MU 320-W, San Francisco, CA, 94143, USA.

Comment in
    Clin Orthop Relat Res. 2015 May;473(5):1709-11.

BACKGROUND: Outcomes research in THA has focused largely on long-term implant 
survivorship as a primary outcome and emphasized the development of new implant 
technologies. In contrast, strategies to improve short-term outcomes, such as 
the frequencies of periprosthetic joint infections and unplanned readmissions, 
have received less attention.
QUESTIONS/PURPOSES: We asked whether reductions in periprosthetic joint 
infections and early readmissions would have greater influence on the net 
monetary benefit (a summation of lifetime cost and quality of life) for THA 
compared with equivalent reductions in aseptic loosening.
METHODS: A Markov model was created using decision-analysis software with six 
health states and death to represent seven major potential outcomes of THA. We 
compared the effect of a 10% reduction in each of the following outcomes: (1) 
periprosthetic joint infection, (2) hospital readmission, and (3) aseptic 
loosening. Procedure costs (not charges) were derived from our hospital 
cost-accounting system. Probabilities were derived primarily from the Australian 
Orthopaedic Association National Joint Replacement Registry, and utilities were 
estimated from a previous study at our institution using the time trade-off 
method. The primary outcome of the study is the net monetary benefit, which 
combines the reductions in cost and improvement in health-related quality of 
life in a single metric. Quality of life is expressed in quality-adjusted life 
years (QALYs), which are calculated by multiplying the utility of a health state 
(ranging from 0 to 1) by the duration of time in the health state. The cost and 
QALYs are reported separately as secondary outcomes. One-way and multivariate 
sensitivity analyses were performed including a probabilistic sensitivity 
analysis to account for uncertainty in model inputs.
RESULTS: The net monetary benefit for a 10% reduction in periprosthetic joint 
infections was USD 278 (95% CI, USD 239-295) per index procedure compared with 
USD 174 (95% CI, USD 150-185) and USD 113 (95% CI, USD 94-129) for reductions in 
aseptic loosening and early readmission, respectively. Compared with the base 
case, reductions in cost associated with a 10% reduction in periprosthetic joint 
infections, early readmissions, and aseptic loosening were USD 98, USD 93, and 
USD 75 per index procedure, respectively. The increase in QALYs for an 
equivalent reduction in periprosthetic joint infections, aseptic loosening, and 
early readmissions were 0.0036, 0.002, and 0.0004 QALYs, respectively. Results 
were most sensitive to age, baseline rate of readmission, periprosthetic joint 
infection, aseptic loosening, and the costs of readmission and revision THA.
CONCLUSIONS: Strategies to reduce periprosthetic joint infections may have a 
greater effect on the cost and long-term effectiveness of THA than further 
enhancements in implant longevity. Reductions in the rate of readmission 
resulted in greater reductions in cost but not quality-of-life, and therefore 
had smaller effect on the net monetary benefit compared with aseptic loosening. 
Surgeons preferentially should engage in strategies focusing on periprosthetic 
joint infections to improve the value of THA care.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: Level II, economic and decision analysis.

DOI: 10.1007/s11999-014-4110-z
PMCID: PMC4385367
PMID: 25560958 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


360. Trends Cardiovasc Med. 2015 Apr;25(3):228-39. doi:
10.1016/j.tcm.2014.10.010.  Epub 2014 Oct 18.

Primary prevention: do the very elderly require a different approach?

Schwartz JB(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, University of California, San Francisco, San 
Francisco, CA; Jewish Home of San Francisco, San Francisco, CA; Department of 
Bioengineering and Therapeutic Sciences, University of California San Francisco, 
San Francisco, CA. Electronic address: Janice.schwartz@ucsf.edu.

Comment in
    Trends Cardiovasc Med. 2015 Apr;25(3):240-2.

Recent cardiovascular prevention guidelines place a greater emphasis on 
randomized placebo-controlled trial data as the basis for recommendations. While 
such trial data are sparse for people over the age of 75 or 80 years, data 
demonstrate altered risk-benefit relationships in these older patients. Primary 
prevention strategy decisions should consider estimated life expectancy and 
overall function as well as cardiovascular event risks, magnitude and time to 
benefit or harm, potentially altered adverse effect profiles, and informed 
patient preferences. Data support treatment of systolic hypertension to reduce 
stroke, cardiovascular events, and dementia in older patients with at least a 
2-year estimated lifespan with modifications in systolic blood pressure goals 
and a need for greater attention to non-cardiovascular side effects such as 
falls in the very old. Lowering of elevated cholesterol levels with HMG-CoA 
reductase inhibitors for primary prevention in people over the age of 75 years 
requires greater individual considerations, as benefits may not accrue for 3-5 
years and there is the potential impact of adverse effects. There is a rationale 
for lipid-lowering treatment in the more highly functional older patient with 
cardiovascular (especially stroke) risk higher than side effect risks in the 
near term and with an estimated lifespan longer than the time to benefit. 
Aspirin has higher side effect risks and requires a longer time to achieve 
benefit. Trial data are lacking on exercise interventions, but multi-system 
benefits have been shown in older patients such that exercise should be part of 
a preventive regimen. Preventive therapy in the very old means considering not 
only medical issues of co-morbidities, polypharmacy, and altered risk-benefit 
relationship of medications but also adjusting goals and approaches across the 
older agespan in keeping with informed patient preferences.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.tcm.2014.10.010
PMCID: PMC4374025
PMID: 25560975 [Indexed for MEDLINE]361. Health Aff (Millwood). 2015 Jan;34(1):188. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2014.1373.

Cost-effectiveness and health care costs.

Chaufan C(1), Harris G(1).

Author information:
(1)University of California, San Francisco San Francisco, California.

Comment in
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2015 Jan;34(1):188.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2014.1373
PMID: 25561659 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


362. Iran J Psychiatry. 2014 Mar;9(1):8-13.

Patients' preference to hear cancer diagnosis.

Arbabi M(1), Rozdar A(2), Taher M(2), Shirzad M(2), Arjmand M(3), Ansari S(2), 
Mohammadi MR(1).

Author information:
(1)Psychiatry and Psychology research center, Department of psychiatry,Tehran 
University of Medical sciences. Tehran, Iran.
(2)Psychiatry and psychology research center, Teheran. Iran.
(3)Psychiatrist, Tehran, Iran.

OBJECTIVE: Bad news disclosure is one of the complex communication tasks of the 
physicians. Bad news is defined as:" any news that adversely and seriously 
affects an individual's view of his or her future". Recent studies indicate that 
the patients' and physicians' attitudes toward disclosure of bad news have been 
changed since few years ago. The evidence of breaking bad news is also different 
across different cultures. In the present study, we aimed to evaluate the 
patients' prospect about breaking bad news and to provide a clinical guidance 
for Iranian patients and those patients in countries with a similar cultural 
background.
METHODS: A cross sectional descriptive study was conducted on a sample of 200 
cancer patients at a cancer institute in Tehran. The patients' demographic 
characteristics and their attitudes toward the manner of disclosing the 
diagnosis were registered in a research based questionnaire.
RESULTS: In this study, 165 patients (82.5%) claimed to be aware of the 
diagnosis; however, only 121 patients (73%) were aware of the actual diagnosis 
of their disease. Most patients tended to know the diagnosis (n = 186, 93%) and 
accepted patient as the first person to be informed (n = 151, 75.5%) by their 
physician (n = 174, 87%). The preference of being alone or with a family member 
when exposed to bad news was almost the same. Most patients (n = 169, 84.5%) 
believed that physicians should consult the patients to make treatment 
decisions. Treatment options (n = 140, 70%) and life expectancy (n = 121, 60.5%) 
were the most desirable topics to be discussed. Most patients (n = 144, 72%) 
agreed upon allowing them to express their emotional feelings.
CONCLUSION: According to the patients' preferences about being fully informed 
about the diagnosis, it is suggested that the disclosure of cancer diagnosis be 
done by a physician and in the presence of a family member. It is also 
recommended that physicians consult the patients about treatment options.

PMCID: PMC4277609
PMID: 25561942


363. JAMA. 2015 Jan 6;313(1):35-6. doi: 10.1001/jama.2014.16327.

Mortality in type 1 diabetes in the current era: two steps forward, one step 
backward.

Katz M(1), Laffel L(2).

Author information:
(1)Young Adult Diabetes and Section of Genetics and Epidemiology, Joslin 
Diabetes Center, Boston, Massachusetts3Department of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical 
School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(2)Young Adult Diabetes and Section of Genetics and Epidemiology, Joslin 
Diabetes Center, Boston, Massachusetts2Pediatric Endocrinology Unit, 
Massachusetts General Hospital for Children, Boston, Massachusetts 3Department 
of Pediatrics, Harvard Medical School.

Comment on
    JAMA. 2015 Jan 6;313(1):37-44.
    JAMA. 2015 Jan 6;313(1):45-53.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2014.16327
PMID: 25562263 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


364. JAMA. 2015 Jan 6;313(1):37-44. doi: 10.1001/jama.2014.16425.

Estimated life expectancy in a Scottish cohort with type 1 diabetes, 2008-2010.

Livingstone SJ(1), Levin D(1), Looker HC(1), Lindsay RS(2), Wild SH(3), Joss 
N(4), Leese G(5), Leslie P(6), McCrimmon RJ(5), Metcalfe W(7), McKnight JA(8), 
Morris AD(3), Pearson DW(9), Petrie JR(2), Philip S(9), Sattar NA(2), Traynor 
JP(7), Colhoun HM(1); Scottish Diabetes Research Network epidemiology group; 
Scottish Renal Registry.

Author information:
(1)Diabetes Epidemiology Unit, University of Dundee, Dundee, Scotland.
(2)Institute of Cardiovascular & Medical Sciences, University of Glasgow, 
Glasgow, Scotland.
(3)Centre for Population Health Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
Scotland.
(4)Raigmore Hospital, National Health Services Highland, Inverness, Scotland.
(5)Medical Research Institute, University of Dundee, Dundee, Scotland.
(6)Borders General Hospital, National Health Services Borders, Scotland.
(7)Scottish Renal Registry, Paisley, Scotland.
(8)Centre for Population Health Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh, 
Scotland8Western General Hospital, Edinburgh, Scotland.
(9)Grampian Diabetes Research Unit, Aberdeen, Scotland.

Comment in
    JAMA. 2015 Jan 6;313(1):35-6.
    BMJ. 2015;350:h59.

IMPORTANCE: Type 1 diabetes has historically been associated with a significant 
reduction in life expectancy. Major advances in treatment of type 1 diabetes 
have occurred in the past 3 decades. Contemporary estimates of the effect of 
type 1 diabetes on life expectancy are needed.
OBJECTIVE: To examine current life expectancy in people with and without type 1 
diabetes in Scotland. We also examined whether any loss of life expectancy in 
patients with type 1 diabetes is confined to those who develop kidney disease.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: Prospective cohort of all individuals alive 
in Scotland with type 1 diabetes who were aged 20 years or older from 2008 
through 2010 and were in a nationwide register (n=24,691 contributing 67,712 
person-years and 1043 deaths).
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Differences in life expectancy between those with 
and those without type 1 diabetes and the percentage of the difference due to 
various causes.
RESULTS: Life expectancy at an attained age of 20 years was an additional 46.2 
years among men with type 1 diabetes and 57.3 years among men without it, an 
estimated loss in life expectancy with diabetes of 11.1 years (95% CI, 
10.1-12.1). Life expectancy from age 20 years was an additional 48.1 years among 
women with type 1 diabetes and 61.0 years among women without it, an estimated 
loss with diabetes of 12.9 years (95% CI, 11.7-14.1). Even among those with type 
1 diabetes with an estimated glomerular filtration rate of 90 mL/min/1.73 m2 or 
higher, life expectancy was reduced (49.0 years in men, 53.1 years in women) 
giving an estimated loss from age 20 years of 8.3 years (95% CI, 6.5-10.1) for 
men and 7.9 years (95% CI, 5.5-10.3) for women. Overall, the largest percentage 
of the estimated loss in life expectancy was related to ischemic heart disease 
(36% in men, 31% in women) but death from diabetic coma or ketoacidosis was 
associated with the largest percentage of the estimated loss occurring before 
age 50 years (29.4% in men, 21.7% in women).
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Estimated life expectancy for patients with type 1 
diabetes in Scotland based on data from 2008 through 2010 indicated an estimated 
loss of life expectancy at age 20 years of approximately 11 years for men and 13 
years for women compared with the general population without type 1 diabetes.

DOI: 10.1001/jama.2014.16425
PMCID: PMC4426486
PMID: 25562264 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


365. Gynecol Oncol. 2015 Mar;136(3):521-8. doi: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2014.12.039. Epub
 2015 Jan 3.

Toxicity and cost-effectiveness analysis of intensity modulated radiation 
therapy versus 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy for postoperative 
treatment of gynecologic cancers.

Chen LA(1), Kim J(2), Boucher K(3), Terakedis B(1), Williams B(4), Nickman 
NA(5), Gaffney DK(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Huntsman Cancer Hospital, University of 
Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(2)Department of Family & Preventive Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake 
City, UT, USA.
(3)Study Design and Biostatistics Center, Division of Epidemiology and Public 
Health, Department of Internal Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, 
USA.
(4)School of Medicine, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.
(5)Department of Pharmacotherapy, University of Utah, Salt Lake City, UT, USA.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate toxicity and cost-effectiveness of intensity modulated 
radiation therapy (IMRT) versus 3-dimensional conformal radiation therapy 
(3DCRT) in the postoperative treatment of uterine and cervical cancer.
METHODS: Between 2000 and 2012, eighty patients at our institution received 
post-hysterectomy 3DCRT (46) or IMRT (34) for uterine or cervical cancer. 
Baseline characteristics, outcome, and ≥CTCAE grade 2 toxicities were compared 
between the two groups. Predictors of toxicity-free survival were identified. A 
decision analysis model was designed to capture individual health states at 1, 
2, and 3 years after treatment. Micro-costing technique and estimated 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) were used to calculate incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Utilization of IMRT increased from 25% (2005-2007) to 75% (2008-2012). 
Recurrence-free and overall survival rates were not different between the two 
groups. Toxicity rates were reduced with IMRT versus 3DCRT (HR 0.42, p=0.04). 
Women who received IMRT had numerically lower rates of late gastrointestinal and 
genitourinary toxicity and significantly lower rates of late overall toxicity at 
3 years (16% vs. 45%, p=0.04). On univariate analysis, IMRT was associated with 
decreased late toxicity (HR 0.43, p=0.04). Treatment costs were higher and 
toxicity costs were lower with IMRT. IMRT had an ICER of $235,233 (year 1), 
$114,270 (year 2), and $75,555 (year 3) per QALY gained.
CONCLUSION: IMRT is associated with reduced late overall toxicity compared to 
3DCRT without compromising clinical outcome. IMRT is not cost-effective during 
the early chronic toxicity phase, but it becomes more cost-effective over time.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ygyno.2014.12.039
PMID: 25562668 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


366. Plant Physiol Biochem. 2015 Feb;87:92-101. doi:
10.1016/j.plaphy.2014.12.010.  Epub 2014 Dec 19.

A comparative study of proteomic differences between pencil and storage roots of 
sweetpotato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.).

Lee JJ(1), Kim YH(2), Kwak YS(1), An JY(1), Kim PJ(3), Lee BH(4), Kumar V(5), 
Park KW(6), Chang ES(7), Jeong JC(8), Lee HS(8), Kwak SS(9).

Author information:
(1)Department of Applied Biology, IALS, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 
660-701, Republic of Korea.
(2)Department of Biology Education, College of Education, IALS, PMBBRC, 
Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 660-701, Republic of Korea.
(3)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Program), IALS, College of Agriculture 
and Life Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 660-701, Republic of 
Korea.
(4)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Program), IALS, PMBBRC, College of 
Agriculture and Life Sciences, Gyeongsang National University, Jinju 660-701, 
Republic of Korea.
(5)Division of Applied Life Science (BK21 Program), PMBBRC, Gyeongsang National 
University, Jinju 660-701, Republic of Korea.
(6)Department of Crop Science, Chungnam National University, Daejeon 305-764, 
Republic of Korea.
(7)Gyeongsangnam-do Agricultural Research & Extension Services, Jinju 660-985, 
Republic of Korea.
(8)Plant Systems Engineering Research Center, Korea Research Institute of 
Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Daejeon 305-806, Republic of Korea.
(9)Plant Systems Engineering Research Center, Korea Research Institute of 
Bioscience and Biotechnology (KRIBB), Daejeon 305-806, Republic of Korea. 
Electronic address: sskwak@kribb.re.kr.

Fibrous roots of sweetpotato (Ipomoea batatas (L.) Lam.) usually develop into 
both pencil and storage roots. To understand protein function in root 
development, a proteomic analysis was conducted on the pencil and storage roots 
of the light orange-fleshed sweetpotato cultivar, Yulmi. Two-dimensional gel 
electrophoresis showed that expression of 30 protein spots differed between 
pencil and storage roots: 15 proteins were up-regulated or expressed in pencil 
roots and 15 in storage roots. Differentially expressed proteins spots were 
investigated using matrix-assisted laser desorption/ionization time of flight 
mass spectrometry, and 10 proteins from pencil roots were identified as binding 
protein isoform A, catechol oxidase, peroxidases, ascorbate peroxidase, 
endochitinase, flavanone 3-hydroxylase and unknown proteins. Of the proteins 
up-regulated in, or restricted to, storage roots, 13 proteins were identified as 
protein disulfide isomerase, anionic peroxidase, putative ripening protein, 
sporamin B, sporamin A and sporamin A precursor. An analysis of enzyme activity 
revealed that catechol oxidase and peroxidase as the first and last enzymes of 
the lignin biosynthesis pathway, and ascorbate peroxidase had higher activities 
in pencil than in storage roots. The total concentration of phenolic compounds 
was also far higher in pencil than in storage roots, and lignin accumulated only 
in pencil roots. These results provide important insight into sweetpotato 
proteomics, and imply that lignin biosynthesis and stress-related proteins are 
up-regulated or uniquely expressed in pencil roots. The results indicate that 
the reduction of carbon flow toward phenylpropanoid biosynthesis and its 
delivery to carbohydrate metabolism is a major event in storage root formation.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier Masson SAS. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plaphy.2014.12.010
PMID: 25562766 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


367. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2015 Jan;21(1):46-54, 54a-b. doi: 
10.18553/jmcp.2015.21.1.46.

Cost-effectiveness of pazopanib versus sunitinib for renal cancer in the United 
States.

Delea TE(1), Amdahl J, Diaz J, Nakhaipour HR, Hackshaw MD.

Author information:
(1)olicy Analysis Inc., Four Davis Ct., Brookline, MA 02445. tdelea@pai2.com.

Comment in
    J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2015 Sep;21(9):834-40.
    J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2015 Sep;21(9):836-40.

BACKGROUND: Current first-line treatments for metastatic renal cell carcinoma 
(mRCC) include the multityrosine kinase inhibitors pazopanib and sunitinib. Both 
agents had similar progression-free survival (PFS) and overall survival (OS) in 
the COMPARZ trial (Comparing the Efficacy, Safety and Tolerability of Pazopanib 
versus Sunitinib); however, the adverse event profiles of the 2 agents are 
different. In the PISCES trial (Patient Preference Study of Pazopanib versus 
Sunitinib in Advanced or Metastatic Kidney Cancer), patients and physicians 
preferred pazopanib primarily because it offered better health-related quality 
of life (HRQoL) and caused less fatigue.
OBJECTIVE: To compare the cost-effectiveness of pazopanib versus sunitinib from 
a U.S. health care system perspective in the first-line treatment of patients 
with mRCC.
METHODS: A partitioned-survival analysis model with 3 health states 
(preprogression, postprogression, and dead), data from 2 randomized controlled 
trials of pazopanib versus sunitinib (COMPARZ and PISCES), and secondary sources 
were used to calculate the incremental cost per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained for pazopanib versus sunitinib. A time horizon of 37.5 months was 
used in the base case, consistent with the duration of follow-up used in the 
COMPARZ trial. The proportion of patients in each health state over time was 
based on Kaplan-Meier survival distributions for PFS and OS from the COMPARZ 
trial. Utility values were obtained from the PISCES trial. Costs were based on 
medical resource utilization data from the COMPARZ trial and unit costs from 
secondary sources. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses and deterministic 
sensitivity analyses were conducted.
RESULTS: In the base case, pazopanib was estimated to provide more QALYs at a 
lower cost compared with sunitinib (pazopanib dominant). In probabilistic 
sensitivity analyses, pazopanib was projected to be dominant in 69% of the 
simulations. The probability that pazopanib was more cost-effective than 
sunitinib was ≥ 90% for threshold values of cost-effectiveness between the range 
of $10,000-$160,000 per QALY gained. In deterministic sensitivity analyses, 
pazopanib was dominant in all scenarios examined.
CONCLUSION: Results of this study suggest that pazopanib is cost-effective 
compared with sunitinib as the first-line treatment of patients with mRCC in the 
United States.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2015.21.1.46
PMCID: PMC10397968
PMID: 25562772 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


368. J Manag Care Spec Pharm. 2015 Jan;21(1):66-75. doi:
10.18553/jmcp.2015.21.1.66.

Economic evaluation of a pharmaceutical care program for elderly diabetic and 
hypertensive patients in primary health care: a 36-month randomized controlled 
clinical trial.

Obreli-Neto PR(1), Marusic S, Guidoni CM, Baldoni Ade O, Renovato RD, Pilger D, 
Cuman RK, Pereira LR.

Author information:
(1)University of Sao Paulo (USP), Ribeirao Preto, Sao Paulo, Brazil 14096-380. 
paulorobreli@yahoo.com.br.

BACKGROUND: Most diabetic and hypertensive patients, principally the elderly, do 
not achieve adequate disease control and consume 5%-15% of annual health care 
budgets. Previous studies verified that pharmaceutical care is useful for 
achieving adequate disease control in diabetes and hypertension.
OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the economic cost and the incremental cost-effectiveness 
ratio (ICER) per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) of pharmaceutical care in the 
management of diabetes and hypertension in elderly patients in a primary public 
health care system in a developing country.
METHODS: A 36-month randomized controlled clinical trial was performed with 200 
patients who were divided into a control group (n = 100) and an intervention 
group (n = 100). The control group received the usual care offered by the 
Primary Health Care Unit (medical and nurse consultations). The intervention 
group received the usual care plus a pharmaceutical care intervention. The 
intervention and control groups were compared with regard to the direct costs of 
health services (i.e., general practitioner, specialist, nurse, and pharmacist 
appointments; emergency room visits; and drug therapy costs) and the ICER per 
QALY. These evaluations used the health system perspective.
RESULTS: No statistically significant difference was found between the 
intervention and control groups in total direct health care costs ($281.97 ± 
$49.73 per patient vs. $212.28 ± $43.49 per patient, respectively; P = 0.089); 
pharmaceutical care added incremental costs of $69.60 (± $7.90) per patient. The 
ICER per QALY was $53.50 (95% CI = $51.60-$54.00; monetary amounts are given in 
U.S. dollars). Every clinical parameter evaluated improved for the 
pharmaceutical care group, whereas these clinical parameters remained unchanged 
in the usual care group. The difference in differences (DID) tests indicated 
that for each clinical parameter, the patients in the intervention group 
improved more from pre to post than the control group (P < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: While pharmaceutical care did not significantly increase total 
direct health care costs, significantly improved health outcomes were seen. The 
mean ICER per QALY gained suggests a favorable cost-effectiveness.

DOI: 10.18553/jmcp.2015.21.1.66
PMCID: PMC10398185
PMID: 25562774 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


369. Diabetologia. 2015 Apr;58(4):819-27. doi: 10.1007/s00125-014-3485-4. Epub
2015  Jan 7.

SIRT1 activation ameliorates hyperglycaemia by inducing a torpor-like state in 
an obese mouse model of type 2 diabetes.

Gilbert RE(1), Thai K, Advani SL, Cummins CL, Kepecs DM, Schroer SA, Woo M, 
Zhang Y.

Author information:
(1)Keenan Research Centre for Biomedical Science and Li Ka Shing Knowledge 
Institute of St Michael's Hospital, 61 Queen Street East, Toronto, ON, Canada, 
M5C 2T2, richard.gilbert@utoronto.ca.

AIMS/HYPOTHESIS: Nutrient overabundance and diminished physical activity 
underlie the epidemic of obesity and its consequences of insulin resistance and 
type 2 diabetes. These same phenomena, obesity and insulin resistance, are also 
observed in mammals as they ready themselves for the nutrient deprivation of 
winter, yet their plasma glucose does not rise. Given the role of silent 
