such that life expectancy is expected to approximate that of patients without 
CP-CML. Randomized controlled trials (RCTs) and observational studies provide 
valuable insights into the management of chronic diseases such as CP-CML. RCTs 
are undoubtedly the backbone of clinical research, and the 'gold standard' for 
evaluating the efficacy and safety of new therapies. However, many questions 
surrounding the optimal management of patients with CML remain unanswered, and 
it is widely accepted that these questions will be best answered by evaluating 
the use of available therapies in clinical practice. Observational studies can 
extend the knowledge base beyond the clinical trial setting and thus capture a 
more accurate picture of everyday clinical practice, particularly patients' 
experiences of long-term CML treatment. There is therefore growing interest in 
and appreciation of the value of observational research. This review article 
will examine the relative merits of RCTs and observational studies in the 
setting of CML, highlighting those factors - such as the advancing age of the 
CML patient population and growing importance of patient-reported outcomes - 
that mean that observational studies should play an important role in shaping 
clinical practice. This article also provides an overview of what observational 
studies have told us thus far about the optimal management of patients with CML, 
outlines some of the key remaining unanswered clinical questions in CML, and 
summarizes ongoing observational studies designed to provide answers to these 
key questions.

DOI: 10.1177/2040620714560305
PMCID: PMC4298489
PMID: 25642311

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: MM has acted as 
a consultant for BMS, Novartis Oncology, Ariad and Pfizer. HJK has acted as a 
consultant for BMS and has received honoraria from BMS, Pfizer, Ariad and Teva. 
Both MM and HJK act as consultants on the SIMPLICITY study. TZ and CD are both 
employees of BMS.


590. J Gastrointest Oncol. 2015 Feb;6(1):75-8. doi: 
10.3978/j.issn.2078-6891.2014.093.

Systemic treatment of gastric and esophageal adenocarcinoma in elderly patients.

Balducci L(1).

Author information:
(1)Senior Adult Oncology Program, Moffitt Cancer Center, Tampa, FL 33618, USA.

This article explores the treatment of cancer of the stomach and of the lower 
esophagus in older individuals. The incidence of both malignancies increases 
with age and, at present, the biology of the diseases, including sensitivity to 
chemotherapy, does not seem to change with age. The treatment of these cancers 
in patients 70 and over includes assessment of life expectancy secondary to 
physiologic age and evaluation of the individual's tolerance to stress. For this 
purpose a comprehensive geriatric assessment (CGA) is the best validated 
instrument. For individuals whose life expectancy without cancer exceeds that 
with cancer, the estimate of the risk of chemotherapy complications may reveal 
those patients in need of additional care and those patients in whom the risk of 
treatment may exceed the potential benefits. All older individuals receiving 
chemotherapy may need adjustment of the doses to the glomerular filtration rate, 
support with myelopoietic growth factors, and special care to prevent severe and 
irreversible neurotoxicity.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2078-6891.2014.093
PMCID: PMC4294826
PMID: 25642340


591. Ann Am Thorac Soc. 2015 Mar;12(3):420-8. doi:
10.1513/AnnalsATS.201408-393OC.

A systematic review of factors associated with health-related quality of life in 
adolescents and adults with cystic fibrosis.

Habib AR(1), Manji J, Wilcox PG, Javer AR, Buxton JA, Quon BS.

Author information:
(1)1 School of Population and Public Health.

RATIONALE: As the life expectancy for individuals with cystic fibrosis (CF) 
continues to improve, an emphasis on optimizing health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) has become increasingly important. The Cystic Fibrosis 
Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R 14+) is the most widely accepted method to quantify 
HRQoL in this patient population.
OBJECTIVES: Our objective was to systematically review the literature to 
identify sociodemographic and clinical factors associated with HRQoL among 
adolescents and adults with CF.
METHODS: Five major literature databases were searched (MEDLINE, EMBASE, 
CENTRAL, CINAHL, psychINFO) to identify studies published from January 1989 to 
April 2014 (n=1,921). We included all full-text studies that: (1) focused on 
individuals 14 years of age or older, and (2) examined the relationship between 
sociodemographic (age, sex, body-mass index [BMI], socioeconomic status, and 
employment) and clinical (FEV1 % predicted, pulmonary exacerbation, 
comorbidities) factors with the CFQ-R 14+. Effect estimates and levels of 
statistical significance in the association between sociodemographic and 
clinical factors with each of the 12 CFQ-R 14+ domains were analyzed, if 
examined in at least two studies.
MEASUREMENTS AND MAIN RESULTS: Twenty-eight articles met our inclusion/exclusion 
criteria, but 5 studies were excluded at the data synthesis stage, leaving 23 
articles for analysis. In relation to the CFQ-R 14+, 10 candidate factors were 
examined in at least two studies. The five most commonly studied factors were 
FEV1 % predicted (57.1% of 28 studies), sex (32.1%), BMI (28.6%), age (17.6%), 
and pulmonary exacerbations (13%). In studies incorporating multivariable 
methods, FEV1 % predicted was positively associated with all CFQ-R 14+ domains 
with the exception of Digestion, Social Functioning, and Emotional Functioning. 
Male subjects reported higher Physical Functioning and lower Body Image scores 
than female subjects, BMI was positively correlated with Body Image and Weight, 
and age was negatively correlated with Treatment Burden. Pulmonary exacerbations 
were negatively associated with multiple domains, including Respiratory 
Symptoms, Physical, and Role Functioning.
CONCLUSIONS: Although several factors have been found to be associated with the 
CFQ-R in adolescents and adults with CF, FEV1 % predicted and pulmonary 
exacerbations have the broadest impact on HRQoL. Further research is required to 
investigate the impact of age-related comorbidities, psychosocial factors, and 
treatment-related factors on HRQoL in adolescents/adults with cystic fibrosis.

DOI: 10.1513/AnnalsATS.201408-393OC
PMID: 25642976 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


592. Curr Aging Sci. 2014;7(3):187-213. doi: 10.2174/1874609808666150201214955.

Vitamins in the prevention or delay of cognitive disability of aging.

Dror Y, Stern F, Gomori MJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Nutrition, Faculty of Agriculture, The Hebrew University of 
Jerusalem, Rehovot, Israel. dror@huji.ac.il.

During the 20th century, the average lifespan in the industrialized societies 
has enormously increased and it is still rising. With the increase in the number 
of old people, a parallel increase in the number of the disabled elderly is 
postulated. Thus, the whole society might suffer from an imbalance between the 
productive segment of the society and a huge segment of helpless people. 
Moderation of the physiological processes, which enhance disability in aging, 
turns out to be a major concern in health research and clinical practice. 
Preservation of brain integrity, which is partly influenced by nutrition, 
presumably is the main target in the attempt to delay the development of 
disability of aging. Optimal micronutrient status would moderate the 
deterioration in brain integrity. The human brain is probably the most 
vulnerable tissue affected by a long-term unbalanced nutrition and is 
particularly vulnerable to reactive oxygen species and to oxidative stress, 
because of its high oxygen requirement, its iron storage capacity and its 
elevated polyunsaturated fatty acid content, and because of its low synthesis 
capacity of endogenous antioxidants. The capability of central nervous system 
(CNS) cells to regenerate is most limited, because their repair is inhibited by 
anti-apoptotic molecules. Efficient autophagy is the major mechanism that 
moderates accumulation of aggregating compounds. Autophagy is probably a crucial 
and a major process in the preservation of brain integrity. Micronutrients 
(vitamins, trace-elements and also antioxidants) most likely affect brain 
integrity by normalizing efficient autophagy. Brain sensitivity to metabolic 
disorders is demonstrated by the effect of homocysteine on metabolic pathways, 
on brain integrity and on the cognitive capacity. Brain imaging might be used as 
a surrogate for detecting long-lasting low status of micronutrients. 
Comprehensive evaluation of brain scans concomitantly with blood micronutrient 
examinations may provide reliable criteria for the estimation of the optimal 
micronutrient intakes or blood concentrations. Recommended dietary intakes for 
micronutrients are based on a list of biomarkers, but have not been suggested a 
safe range for their intake or blood concentration. According to many studies, a 
U-shaped curve prevails for the effect of serum calcidiol concentration on the 
relative risk of morbidity and mortality. An increased relative risk of 
morbidity and mortality with lower serum calcidiol has been shown in almost all 
the studies. A safe range of 20-40 ng/mL was identified for serum calcidiol. A 
significant detrimental effect of serum calcidiol on the hazard ratio for the 
combined data of all-cause mortality and acute coronary syndrome morbidity was 
shown at a concentration higher than 36 ng/ml. Most of the tolerable upper 
intake levels for the micronutrients, published by authorized institutions, were 
set without considering the long-term effects of overdosing. Excessive intake of 
almost all the micromutrients, particularly for a long period of time, produces 
adverse effects. In most of the elderly people prevail an insufficient intake of 
one or more micronutruients. Therefore, until an efficient laboratory system for 
evaluating blood levels is established, a moderate 'multivitamin' 
supplementation at an amount of about half the American RDA for most of the 
micronutrients is suggested.

DOI: 10.2174/1874609808666150201214955
PMID: 25643069 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


593. Gac Med Mex. 2014 Dec;150 Suppl 1:48-59.

[The Mexican Registry of Atrial Fibrillation (ReMeFa)].

[Article in Spanish]

Lara-Vaca S(1), Cordero-Cabra A(2), Martínez-Flores E(3), Iturralde-Torres P(4).

Author information:
(1)Unidad Médica de Alta Especialidad T-1, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, 
León, Gto.
(2)Centro Médico Nacional de Occidente, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, 
Guadalajara, Jal.
(3)Centro Médico Nacional Siglo XXI, Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social, 
México, D.F.
(4)Departamento de Electrocardiología, Instituto Nacional de Cardiología Ignacio 
Chávez, México, D.F.

INTRODUCTION: The Mexican Registry of Atrial Fibrillation (ReMeFa) is the first 
national multicenter registry with one-year clinical follow-up on the treatment 
of atrial fibrillation (AF) in newly diagnosed patients.
OBJECTIVE: To describe the demographics and treatment modalities for rhythm 
control (RC) strategy or heart rate (HR) control in patients with AF treated by 
cardiologists. A secondary objective was to prospectively evaluate the status of 
AF according to the chosen strategy; sinus rhythm in RC and mean ventricular 
rate at rest ≤ 80 bpm in HR, as well as the incidence of clinical outcomes at 12 
month follow-up.
METHODS: ReMeFa was a multicenter, prospective, descriptive study. We included 
adults with documented AF. We excluded those with AF secondary to reversible 
causes, undergoing pulmonary vein ablation, pacemaker or defibrillator users, 
with a life expectancy of less than one year, or with physical or mental 
impediments to meet the protocol objectives. Data were collected at baseline and 
at 6 and 12 months.
RESULTS: We registered 1,201 subjects and 1,193 were eligible for evaluation: 
40% were on RC strategy and 60% on HR control. In the RC strategy, the drugs 
most commonly used were class III antiarrhythmics (64%), beta-blockers (25%), 
and digoxin (24%). In HR control strategy, the drugs used were digoxin (69%), 
class III antiarrhythmics (59%), and beta-blockers (56%). Compared with those on 
HR control, patients in RC strategy were younger (64 ± 14 years), in sinus 
rhythm (55%) and with paroxysmal AF (60%) at baseline. Patients in HR control 
were older (68 ± 13 years), with non-paroxysmal AF (91%), valvular disease 
(42%), heart failure (35%), left ventricular dysfunction (33%), and diabetes 
(25%). At one year follow-up, a 3% incidence of ischemic stroke was observed in 
the HR control group, significantly higher than the 1% observed in the RC 
strategy (p = 0.041).
CONCLUSIONS: ReMeFa registry results offer a current and comprehensive 
perspective on management strategies in Mexican patients with AF. The RC 
strategy provided better control of the arrhythmia as compared with the HR 
control strategy and it was associated with a lower rate of ischemic stroke. 
Nonetheless, current strategies of treatment of AF are not satisfactory.

PMID: 25643677


594. Sleep Breath. 2015 Sep;19(3):1081-92. doi: 10.1007/s11325-015-1134-x. Epub
2015  Feb 3.

Cost-effectiveness of obstructive sleep apnea screening for patients with 
diabetes or chronic kidney disease.

Okubo R(1), Kondo M, Hoshi SL, Yamagata K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Nephrology, Faculty of Medicine, University of Tsukuba, 1-1-1 
Tennoudai, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, 305-8577, Japan.

PURPOSE: Obstructive sleep apnea (OSA) is a common disorder with a high 
prevalence among patients with cardiovascular disease (CVD), diabetes, and 
chronic kidney disease (CKD). Routine evaluation of OSA for patients with CVD 
including hypertension has been performed according to the clinical guidelines 
for both OSA and CVD. However, most patients with diabetes and CKD who could 
benefit from treatment remain undiagnosed because routine screening of OSA is 
not recognized as part of standard practice. This study aims to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of OSA screening for patients with diabetes and CKD.
METHODS: Cost-effectiveness analysis by a decision tree and Markov modeling from 
the societal perspective in Japan was carried out to provide evidence based on 
the economic evaluation of current clinical practice concerning diabetes and 
CKD.
RESULTS: Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios of OSA screening compared with 
do-nothing were calculated as ¥3,516,976 to 4,514,813/quality-adjusted life year 
(QALY) (US$35,170 to 45,148/QALY) for diabetes patients and ¥3,666,946 to 
4,006,866/QALY (US$36,669 to 40,069/QALY) for CKD patients.
CONCLUSIONS: Taking the threshold to judge cost-effectiveness according to a 
suggested value of social willingness to pay for one QALY gain in Japan as ¥5 
million/QALY (US$50,000QALY), OSA screening is cost-effective. Our results 
suggest that active case screening and treatment of OSA for untreated 
middle-aged male patients with diabetes or CKD could be justifiable as an 
efficient use of finite health-care resources in the world with high prevalence 
of these diseases.

DOI: 10.1007/s11325-015-1134-x
PMID: 25643768 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


595. Pharmacoeconomics. 2015 Jun;33(6):551-60. doi: 10.1007/s40273-015-0260-4.

A practical guide for using registry data to inform decisions about the cost 
effectiveness of new cancer drugs: lessons learned from the PHAROS registry.

Blommestein HM(1), Franken MG, Uyl-de Groot CA.

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Policy and Management, institute for Medical Technology 
Assessment, Erasmus University, P.O. Box 1738, 3000 DR, Rotterdam, The 
Netherlands.

Decision makers increasingly request evidence on the real-world cost 
effectiveness of a new treatment. There is, however, a lack of practical 
guidance on how to conduct an economic evaluation based on registry data and how 
this evidence can be used in actual decision making. This paper explains the 
required steps on how to perform a sound economic evaluation using examples from 
an economic evaluation conducted with real-world data from the Dutch Population 
based HAematological Registry for Observational Studies. There are three main 
issues related to using registry data: confounding by indication, missing data, 
and insufficient numbers of (comparable) patients. If encountered, it is crucial 
to accurately deal with these issues to maximize the internal validity and 
generalizability of the outcomes and their value to decision makers. 
Multivariate regression modeling, propensity score matching, and data synthesis 
are well-established methods to deal with confounding. Multiple imputation 
methods should be used in cases where data are missing at random. Furthermore, 
it is important to base the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of a new 
treatment compared with its alternative on comparable groups of (matched) 
patients, even if matching results in a small analytical population. Unmatched 
real-world data provide insights into the costs and effects of a treatment in a 
real-world setting. Decision makers should realize that real-world evidence 
provides extremely valuable and relevant policy information, but needs to be 
assessed differently compared with evidence derived from a randomized clinical 
trial.

DOI: 10.1007/s40273-015-0260-4
PMCID: PMC4445765
PMID: 25644460 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


596. Addict Behav. 2015 Jun;45:79-86. doi: 10.1016/j.addbeh.2015.01.004. Epub
2015  Jan 14.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of smoking-cessation counseling training for 
physicians and pharmacists.

Cantor SB(1), Deshmukh AA(2), Luca NS(3), Nogueras-González GM(4), Rajan T(2), 
Prokhorov AV(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Services Research, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA. Electronic address: sbcantor@mdanderson.org.
(2)Department of Health Services Research, The University of Texas MD Anderson 
Cancer Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(3)Office of Research, Texas Woman's University, Houston, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA.
(5)Department of Behavioral Science, The University of Texas MD Anderson Cancer 
Center, Houston, TX, USA.

BACKGROUND: Although smoking-cessation interventions typically focus directly on 
patients, this paper conducts an economic evaluation of a novel 
smoking-cessation intervention focused on training physicians and/or pharmacists 
to use counseling techniques that would decrease smoking rates at a reasonable 
cost.
PURPOSE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of interventions that train 
physicians and/or pharmacists to counsel their patients on smoking-cessation 
techniques.
METHODS: Using decision-analytic modeling, we compared four strategies for 
smoking-cessation counseling education: training only physicians, training only 
pharmacists, training both physicians and pharmacists (synergy strategy), and 
training neither physicians nor pharmacists (i.e., no specialized training, 
which is the usual practice). Short-term outcomes were based on results from a 
clinical trial conducted in 16 communities across the Houston area; long-term 
outcomes were calculated from epidemiological data. Short-term outcomes were 
measured using the cost per quit, and long-term outcomes were measured using the 
cost per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY). Cost data were taken from 
institutional sources; both costs and QALYs were discounted at 3%.
RESULTS: Training both physicians and pharmacists added 0.09 QALY for 
45-year-old men. However, for 45-year-old women, the discounted quality-adjusted 
life expectancy only increased by 0.01 QALY when comparing the synergy strategy 
to no intervention. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of the 
synergy strategy with respect to the non-intervention strategy was US$868/QALY 
for 45-year-old men and US$8953/QALY for 45-year-old women. The results were 
highly sensitive to the quit rates and community size.
CONCLUSION: Synergistic educational training for physicians and pharmacists 
could be a cost-effective method for smoking cessation in the community.

Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.addbeh.2015.01.004
PMCID: PMC4373998
PMID: 25644592 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of Interest The authors declare no 
conflicts of interest.


597. Arch Iran Med. 2015 Feb;18(2):85-8.

Gastroesophageal reflux disease burden in Iran.

Delavari A(1), Moradi G(2), Elahi E(3), Moradi-Lakeh M(4).

Author information:
(1)Associated Professor of Internal Medicine, Digestive Disease Research center, 
Shariati Hospital, Tehran university Of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran. 
moradi_gh@yahoo.com.
(2)Assistant Professor of Epidemiology, Kurdistan Research Center for Social 
Determinants of Health (KRCSDH), Kurdistan University of Medical Sciences, 
Sanandaj, Iran.
(3)Department of Observatory on Health and Health System, National Institute of 
Health Research, Tehran University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran.
(4)Associated Professor, Gastrointestinal and Liver Disease Research Center 
(GILDRC), Department of Community Medicine, Iran University of Medical Sciences, 
Tehran, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Gastroesophageal reflux disease is one of the most common disorders 
of the gastrointestinal tract. The prevalence of this disease ranges from 5% to 
20% in Asia, Europe, and North America. The aim of this study was to estimate 
the burden of gastroesophageal reflux disease in Iran.
METHODS: Burden of gastroesophageal reflux disease in Iran was estimated for one 
year from 21 March 2006 to 20 March 2007. The definition was adjusted with 
ICD-code of K21. Incident-based disability-adjusted life year (DALY) was used as 
the unit of analysis to quantify disease burden. A simplified disease model and 
DisMod II software were used for modeling.
RESULTS: The annual incidence for total population of males and females in Iran 
was estimated 17.72 and 28.06 per 1000, respectively. The average duration of 
gastroesophageal reflux disease as a chronic condition was estimated around 10 
years in both sexes. Total DALYs for an average of 59 symptomatic days per year 
was estimated 153,554.3 (60,330.8 for males and 93,223.5 for females).  
CONCLUSION: The results of this study showed that reflux imposes high burden and 
high financial costs on the Iranian population. The burden of this disease in 
Iran is more similar to that of European countries rather than Asian countries. 
It is recommended to consider the disease as a public health problem and make 
decisions and public health plans to reduce the burden and financial costs of 
the disease in Iran.

PMID: 25644795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


598. Behav Ther. 2015 Mar;46(2):193-205. doi: 10.1016/j.beth.2014.09.008. Epub
2014  Oct 22.

Clinical and cost-effectiveness of therapist-guided internet-delivered cognitive 
behavior therapy for older adults with symptoms of depression: a randomized 
controlled trial.

Titov N(1), Dear BF(2), Ali S(3), Zou JB(1), Lorian CN(1), Johnston L(1), 
Terides MD(1), Kayrouz R(1), Klein B(4), Gandy M(1), Fogliati VJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Macquarie University.
(2)Macquarie University. Electronic address: blake.dear@mq.edu.au.
(3)University of York.
(4)Federation University Australia, The Australian National University, and 
Swinburne University of Technology.

Depression is a common and significant health problem among older adults. 
Unfortunately, while effective psychological treatments exist, few older adults 
access treatment. The aim of the present randomized controlled trial (RCT) was 
to examine the efficacy, long-term outcomes, and cost-effectiveness of a 
therapist-guided internet-delivered cognitive behavior therapy (iCBT) 
intervention for Australian adults over 60 years of age with symptoms of 
depression. Participants were randomly allocated to either a treatment group 
(n=29) or a delayed-treatment waitlist control group (n=25). Twenty-seven 
treatment group participants started the iCBT treatment and 70% completed the 
treatment within the 8-week course, with 85% of participants providing data at 
posttreatment. Treatment comprised an online 5-lesson iCBT course with brief 
weekly contact with a clinical psychologist, delivered over 8 weeks. The primary 
outcome measure was the Patient Health Questionnaire-9 Item (PHQ-9), a measure 
of symptoms and severity of depression. Significantly lower scores on the PHQ-9 
(Cohen's d=2.08; 95% CI: 1.38 - 2.72) and on a measure of anxiety (Generalized 
Anxiety Disorder-7 Item) (Cohen's d=1.22; 95% CI: 0.61 - 1.79) were observed in 
the treatment group compared to the control group at posttreatment. The 
treatment group maintained these lower scores at the 3-month and 12-month 
follow-up time points and the iCBT treatment was rated as acceptable by 
participants. The treatment group had slightly higher Quality-Adjusted 
Life-Years (QALYs) than the control group at posttreatment (estimate: 0.012; 95% 
CI: 0.004 to 0.020) and, while being a higher cost (estimate $52.9l 95% CI: 
-23.8 to 128.2), the intervention was cost-effective according to commonly used 
willingness-to-pay thresholds in Australia. The results support the potential 
efficacy and cost-effectiveness of therapist-guided iCBT as a treatment for 
older adults with symptoms of depression.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry: 
ACTRN12611000927921; 
https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?id=343384.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2014.09.008
PMID: 25645168 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


599. Behav Ther. 2015 Mar;46(2):206-17. doi: 10.1016/j.beth.2014.09.007. Epub
2014  Oct 17.

Clinical and cost-effectiveness of therapist-guided internet-delivered cognitive 
behavior therapy for older adults with symptoms of anxiety: a randomized 
controlled trial.

Dear BF(1), Zou JB(2), Ali S(3), Lorian CN(2), Johnston L(2), Sheehan J(2), 
Staples LG(2), Gandy M(2), Fogliati VJ(2), Klein B(4), Titov N(2).

Author information:
(1)Macquarie University. Electronic address: blake.dear@mq.edu.au.
(2)Macquarie University.
(3)University of York.
(4)Federation University Australia, National Institute for Mental Health 
Research, The Australian National University, and Swinburne University of 
Technology.

There is preliminary support for internet-delivered cognitive behaviour therapy 
(iCBT) as a way of improving access to treatment among older adults with 
anxiety. The aim of this randomized controlled trial (RCT) was to examine the 
efficacy, long-term outcomes, and cost-effectiveness of an iCBT program for 
adults over 60 years of age with anxiety. Successful applicants were randomly 
allocated to either the treatment group (n=35) or the waitlist control group 
(n=37). The online treatment course was delivered over 8 weeks and provided with 
brief weekly contact with a clinical psychologist via telephone or secure email. 
Eighty-four percent of participants completed the iCBT course within the 8 weeks 
and 90% provided data at posttreatment. Significantly lower scores on measures 
of anxiety (Cohen's d=1.43; 95% CI: 0.89 - 1.93) and depression (Cohen's d=1.79; 
95% CI: 1.21 - 2.32) were found among the treatment group compared to the 
control group at posttreatment. These lower scores were maintained at 3-month 
and 12-month follow-up and the treatment group rated the iCBT treatment as 
acceptable. The treatment group had slightly higher costs ($92.2; 95% CI: $38.7 
to $149.2) and Quality-Adjusted Life-Years (QALYs=0.010; 95% CI: 0.003 to 0.018) 
than the control group at posttreatment and the intervention was found to have a 
greater than 95% probability of being cost-effective. The results support iCBT 
as an efficacious and cost-effective treatment option for older adults with 
symptoms of anxiety.
TRIAL REGISTRATION: Australian and New Zealand Clinical Trials Registry: 
ACTRN12611000929909; 
https://www.anzctr.org.au/Trial/Registration/TrialReview.aspx?ACTRN=12611000929909.

Copyright © 2014. Published by Elsevier Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.beth.2014.09.007
PMID: 25645169 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


600. Aging Cell. 2015 Apr;14(2):153-61. doi: 10.1111/acel.12306. Epub 2015 Feb 2.

Aging and radiation: bad companions.

Hernández L(1), Terradas M, Camps J, Martín M, Tusell L, Genescà A.

Author information:
(1)Department of Cell Biology, Physiology and Immunology, Universitat Autònoma 
de Barcelona, 08193, Bellaterra, Spain.

Aging involves a deterioration of cell functions and changes that may predispose 
the cell to undergo an oncogenic transformation. The carcinogenic risks 
following radiation exposure rise with age among adults. Increasing inflammatory 
response, loss of oxidant/antioxidant equilibrium, ongoing telomere attrition, 
decline in the DNA damage response efficiency, and deleterious nuclear 
organization are age-related cellular changes that trigger a serious threat to 
genomic integrity. In this review, we discuss the mechanistic interplay between 
all these factors, providing an integrated view of how they contribute to the 
observed age-related increase in radiation sensitivity. As life expectancy 
increases and so it does the medical intervention, it is important to highlight 
the benefits of radiation protection in the elderly. Thus, a deep understanding 
of the mechanistic processes confining the threat of aging-related 
radiosensitivity is currently of foremost relevance.

© 2015 The Authors. Aging Cell published by the Anatomical Society and John 
Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acel.12306
PMCID: PMC4364827
PMID: 25645467 [Indexed for MEDLINE]601. Transplant Proc. 2015 Jan-Feb;47(1):30-3. doi: 
10.1016/j.transproceed.2014.12.005.

Economic analysis of the treatment of end-stage renal disease treatment: 
living-donor kidney transplantation versus hemodialysis.

Sánchez-Escuredo A(1), Alsina A(2), Diekmann F(3), Revuelta I(3), Esforzado 
N(3), Ricart MJ(3), Cofán F(3), Torregrosa JV(3), Campistol JM(3), Oppenheimer 
F(3), Fernandez E(2).

Author information:
(1)Nephrology and Renal Transplant Department, Hospital Clinic, Universitat de 
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain. Electronic address: asanchee@clinic.ub.es.
(2)Economic Nephrology Department, Hospital Clinic, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Nephrology and Renal Transplant Department, Hospital Clinic, Universitat de 
Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.

INTRODUCTION: End-stage renal disease (ESRD) is a major public health problem in 
the Spanish health system. Kidney transplantation is the treatment of choice, 
offering better survival and cost-effectiveness than other alternatives. This 
study aimed to compare the cost of living-donor kidney transplantation (LDKT) 
during the first year after transplantation with that of hemodialysis (HD).
METHOD: A prospective, descriptive study of cost and efficacy was performed in 
the Hospital Clinic in Barcelona from January to December 2011. We included 106 
patients (57 undergoing HD and 49 receiving a LDKT). The costs of LDKT (donor 
and recipient) and HD were calculated based on our economic database program.
RESULTS: The mean age of recipients and donors was 46 ± 15 and 52 ± 10 years, 
respectively, and 67% of the recipients were men. In HD patients, the mean age 
was 67 ± 11 years and 62% were men. The total cost of LDKT was €29,897.91 
(€8,128.44 for donors and €21,769.47 for recipients). The total cost of HD was 
€43,000.88 (€37,917 for HD and related procedures plus €5,082 for transport). 
LDKT represented a savings of €13,102.97 per patient/year and the payback period 
was less than 1 year. Quality-adjusted life years were higher in LDKT than in HD 
patients.
CONCLUSION: LDKT is cost effective during the first year after transplantation 
and is associated with enhanced quality of life. From both the medical and 
economic points of view, pre-emptive LDKD should be encouraged in Spain to 
reduce the health budget for ESRD.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.transproceed.2014.12.005
PMID: 25645763 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


602. Health Aff (Millwood). 2015 Feb;34(2):220-8. doi: 10.1377/hlthaff.2014.0986.

Robot-assisted surgery for kidney cancer increased access to a procedure that 
can reduce mortality and renal failure.

Chandra A(1), Snider JT(2), Wu Y(3), Jena A(4), Goldman DP(5).

Author information:
(1)Amitabh Chandra (amitabh_chandra@harvard.edu) is a professor of public policy 
at the John F. Kennedy School of Government, Harvard University, in Cambridge, 
Massachusetts.
(2)Julia Thornton Snider is a senior research economist at Precision Health 
Economics in Los Angeles, California.
(3)Yanyu Wu is an associate research economist, health analytics, at Precision 
Health Economics in Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)Anupam Jena is an assistant professor of health care policy and medicine at 
Harvard Medical School and a physician at Massachusetts General Hospital, both 
in Boston; and a faculty research fellow at the National Bureau of Economic 
Research in Cambridge, Massachusetts.
(5)Dana P. Goldman is the Leonard D. Schaeffer Chair and director of the 
Schaeffer Center for Health Policy and Economics at the University of Southern 
California, in Los Angeles.

Comment in
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2015 May;34(5):881.
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2015 May;34(5):881.
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2015 May;34(5):881-2.
    Health Aff (Millwood). 2015 May;34(5):882.
    J Urol. 2015 Aug;194(2):333.

Surgeons increasingly use robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery for a 
variety of medical conditions. For hospitals, the acquisition and maintenance of 
a robot requires a significant investment, but financial returns are not linked 
to any improvement in long-term patient outcomes in the current reimbursement 
environment. Kidney cancer provides a useful case study for evaluating the 
long-term value that this innovation can provide. Kidney cancer is generally 
treated through partial or radical nephrectomy, with evidence favoring the 
former procedure for appropriate patients. We found that robot-assisted surgery 
increased access to partial nephrectomy and that partial nephrectomy reduced 
mortality and renal failure. The value of the benefits of robot-assisted 
minimally invasive surgery to patients, in terms of quality-adjusted life-years 
gained, outweighed the health care and surgical costs to patients and payers by 
a ratio of five to one. In addition, we found no evidence that the availability 
of robot-assisted minimally invasive surgery increased the likelihood that 
inappropriate patients received partial nephrectomy.

Project HOPE—The People-to-People Health Foundation, Inc.

DOI: 10.1377/hlthaff.2014.0986
PMID: 25646101 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


603. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2015 Apr;69(4):316-21. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2014-204655. Epub 2015 Feb 2.

Cohort differences in the levels and trajectories of frailty among older people 
in England.

Marshall A(1), Nazroo J(1), Tampubolon G(1), Vanhoutte B(1).

Author information:
(1)Cathie Marsh Institute for Social Research, University of Manchester, 
Manchester, UK.

BACKGROUND: The level of frailty in the older population across age cohorts and 
how this changes is a factor in determining future care costs and may also 
influence the extent of socioeconomic and gender inequalities in frailty.
METHODS: We model cohort-specific trajectories in frailty among the community 
dwelling population older than 50 years, using five waves (2002-2010) of the 
English Longitudinal Study of Ageing. We stratify our analysis by wealth and 
gender and use a frailty index, based on accumulation of 'deficits'.
RESULTS: For males and females between the ages of 50 and 70 in 2002, frailty 
trajectories for adjacent age cohorts converge. However, levels of frailty are 
higher in recent compared with earlier cohorts at the older ages (for cohorts 
aged over 70 in 2002). These cohort differences are largest in the poorest 
wealth group, while for the most affluent, frailty trajectories overlap across 
all adjacent cohorts suggesting no change across cohorts.
CONCLUSIONS: A key driver of the cohort differences in frailty that we observe 
is likely to be increased survival of frail individuals. Importantly, this paper 
illustrates that the social conditions experienced across the wealth 
distribution impacts on the rate of deficit accumulation in older populations. 
Our results on trajectories of frailty between 2002 and 2010 are pessimistic 
and, in the context of rising life expectancies, suggest that poorer older 
people in particular spend additional years of life in a frail state.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/jech-2014-204655
PMCID: PMC4392235
PMID: 25646207 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


604. Ann Oncol. 2015 May;26(5):1005-1011. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdv031. Epub 2015
Feb  2.

Debio0932, a second-generation oral heat shock protein (HSP) inhibitor, in 
patients with advanced cancer-results of a first-in-man dose-escalation study 
with a fixed-dose extension phase.

Isambert N(1), Delord JP(2), Soria JC(3), Hollebecque A(3), Gomez-Roca C(2), 
Purcea D(4), Rouits E(4), Belli R(4), Fumoleau P(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Georges François Leclerc, Dijon.
(2)Oncology and Clinical Research Unit, Institut Claudius Regaud, Toulouse.
(3)Drug Development Department (DITEP), Gustave Roussy Cancer Campus and 
University Paris-Sud, Paris, France.
(4)Debiopharm International SA, Lausanne, Switzerland.
(5)Department of Medical Oncology, Centre Georges François Leclerc, Dijon. 
Electronic address: pfumoleau@cgfl.fr.

BACKGROUND: Objective was to determine maximum tolerated dose (MTD), recommended 
dose (RD) and schedule, safety, pharmacokinetic (PK) profile, pharmacodynamic 
(PD) effects, and antitumor activity of Debio0932, a new second-generation oral 
heat shock protein (HSP) inhibitor.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a multicenter, uncontrolled, open-label, 
nonrandomized, dose-escalation study in adults with treatment-resistant advanced 
cancer. Groups of three patients received oral Debio0932 either daily or every 
other day. The starting dose of 50 mg was escalated until the MTD was reached, 
i.e. dose-limiting toxicity (DLT) occurred in ≥2 patients. Further 9 patients 
and an extension cohort of 30 patients were treated at the next lower dose 
(=RD). Adverse events (AEs), tumor response, PK, and HSP70 levels in peripheral 
blood mononuclear cells were recorded over 30 days.
RESULTS: Fifty patients were treated with doses up to 1600 mg, at which level 
three DLT occurred (febrile neutropenia, diarrhea, asthenia). In total, 39 
patients were then treated at the RD of 1000 mg daily. Most common drug-related 
AEs were asthenia and gastrointestinal events. No ocular toxicities were 
observed. Debio0932 was rapidly absorbed and metabolized. Plasma steady state 
was reached within 9 days. Volume of distribution was high and elimination 
half-life was 9-11 h. Food had no effect on PK. PD showed large interpatient 
variability, but no dose-effect relationship. Partial tumor response was 
observed in 2 patients (NSCLC and breast cancer), stable disease (SD) in 12 
patients (5 of 8 NSCLC patients). In the extension cohort, 9 patients had SD, 
and 1 patient a partial metabolic tumor response.
CONCLUSION: Debio0932 has limited clinical activity, together with manageable 
toxicity. Further development as adjunct treatment of NSCLC at daily doses of 
1000 mg is warranted.
CLINICAL TRIAL: NCT01168752.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdv031
PMID: 25646368 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


605. Eur J Endocrinol. 2015 May;172(5):609-17. doi: 10.1530/EJE-14-0940. Epub
2015  Feb 2.

No beneficial effects of vitamin D supplementation on muscle function or quality 
of life in primary hyperparathyroidism: results from a randomized controlled 
trial.

Rolighed L(1), Rejnmark L(2), Sikjaer T(2), Heickendorff L(2), Vestergaard P(3), 
Mosekilde L(2), Christiansen P(2).

Author information:
(1)Breast and Endocrine SectionDepartment of Surgery PDepartment of 
Endocrinology and Internal MedicineAarhus University Hospital, Tage Hansens Gade 
2, 8000 Aarhus C, DenmarkDepartment of Clinical BiochemistryAarhus University 
Hospital, NBG, Aarhus, DenmarkDepartment of Endocrinology and Clinical 
InstituteAalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark larsrolighed@gmail.com.
(2)Breast and Endocrine SectionDepartment of Surgery PDepartment of 
Endocrinology and Internal MedicineAarhus University Hospital, Tage Hansens Gade 
2, 8000 Aarhus C, DenmarkDepartment of Clinical BiochemistryAarhus University 
Hospital, NBG, Aarhus, DenmarkDepartment of Endocrinology and Clinical 
InstituteAalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.
(3)Breast and Endocrine SectionDepartment of Surgery PDepartment of 
Endocrinology and Internal MedicineAarhus University Hospital, Tage Hansens Gade 
2, 8000 Aarhus C, DenmarkDepartment of Clinical BiochemistryAarhus University 
Hospital, NBG, Aarhus, DenmarkDepartment of Endocrinology and Clinical 
InstituteAalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark Breast and Endocrine 
SectionDepartment of Surgery PDepartment of Endocrinology and Internal 
MedicineAarhus University Hospital, Tage Hansens Gade 2, 8000 Aarhus C, 
DenmarkDepartment of Clinical BiochemistryAarhus University Hospital, NBG, 
Aarhus, DenmarkDepartment of Endocrinology and Clinical InstituteAalborg 
University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark.

CONTEXT: Impairments of muscle function and strength in patients with primary 
hyperparathyroidism (PHPT) are rarely addressed, although decreased muscle 
function may contribute to increased fracture risk.
OBJECTIVE: We aimed to assess the changes in muscle strength, muscle function, 
postural stability, quality of life (QoL), and well-being during treatment with 
vitamin D or placebo before and after parathyroidectomy (PTX) in PHPT patients.
DESIGN: A randomized placebo-controlled trial.
PATIENTS: We included 46 PHPT patients, mean age 58 (range 29-77) years and 35 
(76%) were women.
INTERVENTIONS: Daily treatment with 70 μg (2800 IU) cholecalciferol or placebo 
for 52 weeks. Treatment was administered 26 weeks before PTX and continued for 
26 weeks after PTX.
MAIN OUTCOME MEASURES: Changes in QoL and measures of muscle strength and 
function.
RESULTS: Preoperatively, 25-hydroxyvitamin D (25OHD) increased significantly 
(50-94 nmol/l) compared with placebo (57-52 nmol/l). We did not measure any 
beneficial effects of supplementation with vitamin D compared with placebo 
regarding well-being, QoL, postural stability, muscle strength, or function. In 
all patients, we measured marked improvements in QoL, well-being (P<0.01), 
muscle strength in the knee flexion and extension (P<0.001), and muscle function 
tests (P<0.01) after surgical cure. Postural stability improved during standing 
with eyes closed (P<0.05), but decreased with eyes open (P<0.05).
CONCLUSIONS: Patients with PHPT and 25OHD levels around 50 nmol/l did not 
benefit from vitamin D supplementation concerning muscle strength, muscle 
function, postural stability, well-being, or QoL. Independent of preoperative 
25OHD levels, PTX improved these parameters.

© 2015 European Society of Endocrinology.

DOI: 10.1530/EJE-14-0940
PMID: 25646406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


606. Hong Kong Med J. 2014 Dec;20 Suppl 7:13-5.

Cost-effectiveness of Helicobacter pylori screening and treatment for gastric 
cancer in Hong Kong: a decision analytic approach.

Wong IO(1), Schooling CM(1), Cowling BJ(1).

Author information:
(1)School of Public Health, The University of Hong Kong.

PMID: 25647818 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


607. J Med Virol. 2015 Apr;87(4):569-74. doi: 10.1002/jmv.24137. Epub 2015 Feb 3.

Hepatitis A virus age-specific sero-prevalence and risk factors among Jordanian 
children.

Hayajneh WA(1), Balbeesi A, Faouri S.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Medicine, Department of Pediatrics, Jordan University of Science 
and Technology, Irbid, Jordan.

Hepatitis A Virus (HAV) has been a significant cause of infections among the 
children and adolescents of Jordan. Availability of safe vaccines made it 
necessary to identify the ill-defined temporal immunity trends for HAV and 
possible age-specific prevalence transitions. This community-based cross 
sectional study was conducted during the period July-August 2008 on 3,066 
recruited subjects from the 12 governorates of Jordan, with pre-defined 
criteria. Several households were chosen at random within each selected block to 
enroll the subjects. They were interviewed and data were collected. Their sera 
were tested for total antibodies against HAV. A multivariate model was then 
performed to identify the possible risk factors. The HAV sero-prevalence rates 
among the age categories-second year, 2-4 years, 5-9 years, 10-14 years, 15-19 
years, and those above 20 years were 26%, 32%, 44%, 63%, 78%, and 94%, 
respectively. The model revealed the association of several risk factors for 
higher HAV sero-prevalence rates: (i) older age groups; (ii) lower maternal 
education levels; (iii) residing in certain governorates; (iv) using public net 
drinking water; and (v) avoiding use of public net sewage system. This study 
provided strong evidence for continuous transition of HAV epidemiology towards 
intermediate endemicity in Jordan, with more susceptible adolescents and adults. 
Following the World Health Organization (WHO) recommendations for countries with 
intermediate endemicity, large-scale hepatitis A vaccination is recommended for 
children in Jordan. This is strengthened by the availability of effective and 
safe HAV vaccines, improving the socio-economic status of the Jordanians, and 
increasing life expectancy among Jordanians.

© 2015 Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1002/jmv.24137
PMID: 25648328 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


608. J Subst Abuse Treat. 2015 Jun;53:1-8. doi: 10.1016/j.jsat.2015.01.003. Epub
2015  Jan 15.

The Cost-effectiveness of Alcohol Screening, Brief Intervention, and Referral to 
Treatment (SBIRT) in Emergency and Outpatient Medical Settings.

Barbosa C(1), Cowell A(2), Bray J(3), Aldridge A(2).

Author information:
(1)RTI International, 230 West Monroe St., Suite 2100, Chicago, IL, USA 
60606-4901. Electronic address: cbarbosa@rti.org.
(2)RTI International, 3040 E. Cornwallis Road, P.O. Box 12194, Research Triangle 
Park, NC 27709.
(3)Bryan School of Business and Economics, 462 Bryan Building, P.O. Box 26170, 
UNC Greensboro, Greensboro, NC 27402-6170.

OBJECTIVE: This study analyzed the cost-effectiveness of delivering alcohol 
screening, brief intervention, and referral to treatment (SBIRT) in emergency 
departments (ED) when compared to outpatient medical settings.
METHODS: A probabilistic decision analytic tree categorized patients into health 
states. Utility weights and social costs were assigned to each health state. 
Health outcome measures were the proportion of patients not drinking above 
threshold levels at follow-up, the proportion of patients transitioning from 
above threshold levels at baseline to abstinent or below threshold levels at 
follow-up, and the quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) gained. Expected costs 
under a provider perspective were the marginal costs of SBIRT, and under a 
societal perspective were the sum of SBIRT cost per patient and the change in 
social costs. Incremental cost-effectiveness ratios were computed.
RESULTS: When considering provider costs only, compared to outpatient, SBIRT in 
ED cost $8.63 less, generated 0.005 more QALYs per patient, and resulted in 
13.8% more patients drinking below threshold levels. Sensitivity analyses in 
which patients were assumed to receive a fixed number of treatment sessions that 
met clinical sites' guidelines made SBIRT more expensive in ED than outpatient; 
the ED remained more effective. In this sensitivity analysis, the ED was the 
most cost-effective setting if decision makers were willing to pay more than 
$1500 per QALY gained.
CONCLUSIONS: Alcohol SBIRT generates costs savings and improves health in both 
ED and outpatient settings. EDs provide better effectiveness at a lower cost and 
greater social cost reductions than outpatient.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jsat.2015.01.003
PMID: 25648375 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


609. Circ Cardiovasc Qual Outcomes. 2015 Mar;8(2):155-63. doi: 
10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.114.001240. Epub 2015 Feb 3.

Quantifying the utility of taking pills for cardiovascular prevention.

Hutchins R(1), Viera AJ(2), Sheridan SL(2), Pignone MP(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Medicine, Division of General Internal Medicine, 
University of California San Francisco (R.H.); Health Care and Prevention MD-MPH 
Program (A.J.V., S.L.S.) and Gillings School of Global Public Health (A.J.V., 
S.L.S.), University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine; and 
Department of Family Medicine (A.J.V.) and Department of Medicine, Division of 
General Internal Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology (S.L.S., M.P.P.), University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill. rphutchins84@gmail.com.
(2)From the Department of Medicine, Division of General Internal Medicine, 
University of California San Francisco (R.H.); Health Care and Prevention MD-MPH 
Program (A.J.V., S.L.S.) and Gillings School of Global Public Health (A.J.V., 
S.L.S.), University of North Carolina at Chapel Hill School of Medicine; and 
Department of Family Medicine (A.J.V.) and Department of Medicine, Division of 
General Internal Medicine and Clinical Epidemiology (S.L.S., M.P.P.), University 
of North Carolina at Chapel Hill.

Comment in
    BMJ. 2015;350:h584.

BACKGROUND: The decrease in utility attributed to taking pills for 
cardiovascular prevention can have major effects on the cost-effectiveness of 
interventions but has not been well studied. We sought to measure the utility of 
daily pill-taking for cardiovascular prevention.
METHODS AND RESULTS: We conducted a cross-sectional Internet-based survey of 
1000 US residents aged ≥30 in March 2014. We calculated utility values, using 
time trade-off as our primary method and standard gamble and willingness-to-pay 
techniques as secondary analyses. Mean age of respondents was 50 years. Most 
were female (59%) and white (63%); 28% had less than a college degree; and 79% 
took ≥1 pills daily. Mean utility using the time trade-off method was 0.990 (95% 
confidence interval, 0.988-0.992), including ≈70% not willing to trade any 
amount of time to avoid taking a preventive pill daily. Using the standard 
gamble method, mean utility was 0.991 (0.989-0.993), with 62% not willing to 
risk any chance of death. Respondents were willing to pay an average of $1445 to 
avoid taking a pill daily, which translated to a mean utility of 0.994 
(0.940-0.997), including 41% unwilling to pay any amount. Time trade-off-based 
utility varied by age (decreasing utility as age increased), sex, race, 
numeracy, difficulty with obtaining pills, and number of pills taken per day but 
did not vary by education level, literacy, or income.
CONCLUSIONS: Mean utility for taking a pill daily for cardiovascular prevention 
is ≈0.990 to 0.994.

© 2015 American Heart Association, Inc.

DOI: 10.1161/CIRCOUTCOMES.114.001240
PMID: 25648463 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


610. Environ Monit Assess. 2015 Mar;187(3):76. doi: 10.1007/s10661-015-4270-7.
Epub  2015 Feb 4.

Extrapolation of in situ data from 1-km squares to adjacent squares using remote 
sensed imagery and airborne lidar data for the assessment of habitat diversity 
and extent.

Lang M(1), Vain A, Bunce RG, Jongman RH, Raet J, Sepp K, Kuusemets V, Kikas T, 
Liba N.

Author information:
(1)Estonian University of Life Sciences, Institute of Forestry and Rural 
Engineering, Kreutzwaldi 5, 51014, Tartu, Estonia, lang@to.ee.

Habitat surveillance and subsequent monitoring at a national level is usually 
carried out by recording data from in situ sample sites located according to 
predefined strata. This paper describes the application of remote sensing to the 
extension of such field data recorded in 1-km squares to adjacent squares, in 
order to increase sample number without further field visits. Habitats were 
mapped in eight central squares in northeast Estonia in 2010 using a 
standardized recording procedure. Around one of the squares, a special study 
site was established which consisted of the central square and eight surrounding 
squares. A Landsat-7 Enhanced Thematic Mapper Plus (ETM+) image was used for 
correlation with in situ data. An airborne light detection and ranging (lidar) 
vegetation height map was also included in the classification. A series of tests 
were carried out by including the lidar data and contrasting analytical 
techniques, which are described in detail in the paper. Training accuracy in the 
central square varied from 75 to 100 %. In the extrapolation procedure to the 
surrounding squares, accuracy varied from 53.1 to 63.1 %, which improved by 10 % 
with the inclusion of lidar data. The reasons for this relatively low 
classification accuracy were mainly inherent variability in the spectral 
signatures of habitats but also differences between the dates of imagery 
acquisition and field sampling. Improvements could therefore be made by better 
synchronization of the field survey and image acquisition as well as by dividing 
general habitat categories (GHCs) into units which are more likely to have 
similar spectral signatures. However, the increase in the number of sample 
kilometre squares compensates for the loss of accuracy in the measurements of 
individual squares. The methodology can be applied in other studies as the 
procedures used are readily available.

DOI: 10.1007/s10661-015-4270-7
PMID: 25648761 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


611. J Alzheimers Dis. 2015;45(4):985-1000. doi: 10.3233/JAD-142814.

The Brain Hepatocyte Growth Factor/c-Met Receptor System: A New Target for the 
