infected and naïve cattle are comingled. Knowledge of infection prevalence and 
spatial distribution is important in disease management. The objective of this 
study was to assess A. marginale infection in-herd prevalence in Texas cattle 
using both molecular and serological methods. Blood samples from 11 cattle herds 
within Texas were collected and analyzed by reverse transcription quantitative 
real-time PCR (RT-qPCR) and a commercial competitive enzyme-linked immunosorbent 
assay (cELISA). Samples from experimentally infected animals were also analyzed 
and RT-qPCR detected A. marginale infection up to 15 days before cELISA, 
providing empirical data to support the interpretation of herd prevalence 
results. Herds with high prevalence were located in the north Texas Rolling 
Plains and west Trans-Pecos Desert, with RT-qPCR prevalence as high as 82% and 
cELISA prevalence as high as 88%. Overall prevalence was significantly higher in 
cattle in north and west Texas compared to cattle in east Texas (p<0.0001 for 
prevalence based on both RT-qPCR and cELISA). The overall RT-qPCR and cELISA 
results exhibited 90% agreement (kappa=0.79) and provide the first A. marginale 
infection prevalence study for Texas cattle using two diagnostic methods. Since 
cattle are the most important reservoir host for A. marginale and can serve as a 
source of infection for tick and mechanical transmission, information on 
infection prevalence is beneficial in the development of prevention and control 
strategies.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.prevetmed.2015.02.006
PMID: 25732914 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


863. Wien Klin Wochenschr. 2015 Apr;127(7-8):308-13. doi:
10.1007/s00508-015-0729-3.  Epub 2015 Mar 3.

Epidemiology of suicide in Austria during 2000-2010: potential years of life 
lost: time for the national suicide prevention program.

Etzersdorfer E(1), Klein J, Baus N, Sonneck G, Kapusta ND.

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Psychiatrie und Psychotherapie, Furtbachkrankenhaus, 
Furtbachstrasse 6, 70178, Stuttgart, Germany, etzersdorfer@fbkh.org.

BACKGROUND: This article investigates suicide rates from 2000 to 2010 in 
Austria, a country with now average rates that had started to decline in the 
mid-80s.
RESULTS: Rates declined in the observed period, to an average of 26.1 per 
100,000 persons for men, 8.2 for women, and 16.9 in the general population. The 
decrease was found in all age-groups, but more marked in women, with a reduction 
by 26.3 % compared with the previous decade than in men (20.0 % reduction). 
Hanging still is the most common method, 49.1 % for men and 35.0 % for women, 
although also on the decline. Furthermore, person years of lost life were 
calculated, also reflecting a decrease from 40,702 years in 2000 to 29,883 in 
2010. Altogether, 372,551 years of life were lost by suicide in Austria in the 
period 2000-2010, 277,998 years among men and 94,553 years among women.
CONCLUSIONS: Concerning the still observed increase in old age-groups and the 
huge amount of lost life years, it is argued that implementation of the National 
Suicide Prevention Programme for Austria is strongly needed.

DOI: 10.1007/s00508-015-0729-3
PMID: 25732917 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


864. Med Clin (Barc). 2014 Dec;143 Suppl 3:13-8. doi:
10.1016/S0025-7753(15)30004-X.

[Cormorbidity in multiple sclerosis and its therapeutic approach].

[Article in Spanish]

Estruch BC(1).

Author information:
(1)Unitat d'Esclerosi Múltiple, Hospital Universitari i Politècnic La Fe, 
València, España. Electronic address: casanova.bonaventura@gmail.com.

Multiple sclerosis (MS) is a long-term chronic disease, in which intercurrent 
processes develop three times more frequently in affected individuals than in 
persons without MS. Knowledge of the comorbidity of MS, its definition and 
measurement (Charlson index) improves patient management. Acting on comorbid 
conditions delays the progression of disability, which is intimately linked to 
the number of concurrent processes and with health states and habits. Moreover, 
the presence of comorbidities delays the diagnosis of MS, which in turn delays 
the start of treatment. The main comorbidity found in MS includes other 
autoimmune diseases (thyroiditis, systemic lupus erythematosus, or pemphigus) 
but can also include general diseases, such as asthma or osteomuscular 
alterations, and, in particular, psychiatric disturbances. All these alterations 
should be evaluated with multidimensional scales (Disability Expectancy Table, 
DET), which allow more accurate determination of the patient's real clinical 
course and quality of life. These scales also allow identification of how MS, 
concurrent and intercurrent processes occurring during the clinical course, and 
the treatment provided affect patients with MS. An overall approach to patients' 
health status helps to improve quality of life.

Copyright © 2014 Elsevier España, S.L.U. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/S0025-7753(15)30004-X
PMID: 25732944 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


865. Arch Orthop Trauma Surg. 2015 May;135(5):595-600. doi: 
10.1007/s00402-015-2191-0. Epub 2015 Mar 4.

Semiconstrained total elbow arthroplasty for rheumatoid arthritis patients: 
clinical and radiological results of 1-8 years follow-up.

Mukka S(1), Berg G, Hassany HR, Koye AK, Sjödén G, Sayed-Noor AS.

Author information:
(1)Department of Surgical and Perioperative Sciences (Orthopaedics, Sundsvall), 
Umeå University, 901 87, Umeå, Sweden.

INTRODUCTION: We investigated whether the Discovery total elbow arthroplasty 
(TEA) system had good results and survival in rheumatoid arthritis (RA) 
patients.
METHODS: In a prospective cohort study, one elbow surgeon performed TEA on 25 
consecutive RA patients (31 elbows) between December 2004 and November 2012 
using the Discovery system. We evaluated the preoperative elbow range of motion 
(ROM), functional outcome with QuickDash and quality of life with EQ-5D. An 
independent colleague evaluated the same parameters 1-8 years (mean 4.5) 
postoperatively. The medical records of the follow-up visits for the study 
period were available for review.
RESULTS: A complete set of results was available for 19 patients (25 elbows). 
The mean ROM improved in flexion/extension from 88° (SD 27) to 113° (SD 19) and 
in pronation/supination from 55° (SD 28) to 68° (SD 22) (p < 0.05). The mean 
QuickDash also improved from 66.5 (SD 25.7) to 40.2 (SD 24) (p < 0.01). The mean 
EQ-5D improved from 0.68 (SD 0.2) to 0.75 (SD 0.13) but was not statistically 
significant (p = 0.09). Three patients were revised because of loosening, 2 more 
patients were re-operated. This resulted in a Kaplan-Meier survival of 90 % (CI 
72-97) for the study period.
CONCLUSION: The Discovery system has shown satisfactory results in RA patients 
even if the rate of complication remained relatively high. Further follow-up is 
required to investigate the radiological changes observed in some of our 
patients.

DOI: 10.1007/s00402-015-2191-0
PMID: 25733382 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


866. Acta Trop. 2015 Jun;146:1-6. doi: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.02.010. Epub
2015  Feb 27.

Effect of temperature on life history traits during immature development of 
Aedes aegypti and Culex quinquefasciatus (Diptera: Culicidae) from Córdoba city, 
Argentina.

Grech MG(1), Sartor PD(2), Almirón WR(3), Ludueña-Almeida FF(3).

Author information:
(1)Centro de Investigaciones Esquel de Montaña y Estepa Patagónicas (CIEMEP), 
CONICET and Universidad Nacional de la Patagonia San Juan Bosco, Laboratorio de 
Investigaciones en Ecología y Sistemática Animal (LIESA), Facultad de Ciencias 
Naturales, Sede Esquel, Sarmiento 849 (9200), Esquel, Chubut, Argentina. 
Electronic address: grechmarta@gmail.com.
(2)Agencia de Extensión Rural (AER), Agencia de Extensión y Desarrollo 
Territorial (AEyDT) Colonia 25 de mayo, Instituto Nacional de Tecnología 
Agropecuaria (INTA), General Pico 720 (8201), Colonia 25 de mayo, La Pampa, 
Argentina.
(3)Instituto de Investigaciones Biológicas y Tecnológicas (IIBYT), CONICET and 
Universidad Nacional de Córdoba, Centro de Investigaciones Entomológicas de 
Córdoba (CIEC), Facultad de Ciencias Exactas, Físicas y Naturales, Av. Vélez 
Sarsfield 1611 (5016), Ciudad Universitaria, Córdoba, Argentina.

We investigated how ambient temperature under fluctuating conditions affects the 
larval-pupal immature traits of Aedes aegypti and Culex quinquefasciatus 
mosquitoes from Córdoba city, Argentina, and established each species 
development threshold and physiological time. Based on life tables, three 
cohorts of each mosquito species were reared in the laboratory under small 
fluctuating temperatures conditions of 15.2±1.7°C, 17.9±1.6°C, 21.6±0.7°C and 
25.3±0.4°C for Ae. aegypti, and 16.6±1.7°C, 18.7±1.7°C and 25.2±0.3°C for Cx. 
quinquefasciatus. Immature development time and survival values, and also 
thermal development threshold and physiological time were estimated. Development 
times of all larval and pupal stages of Ae. aegypti and Cx. quinquefasciatus 
were significantly affected by the rearing temperatures, decreasing when 
temperature increased. Mean Ae. aegypti total (larva+pupa) development time 
ranged from 21.9 to 8.6 days, at 15.2 and 25.3°C, whereas, for Cx. 
quinquefasciatus varied between 23.5 to 9.2 days at 16.6 and 25.2°C, 
respectively. Larval and pupal survival of both species was affected by 
different rearing temperatures, increasing in general as temperature increased. 
For Ae. aegypti the total immature survival ranged from 26% at 15.2°C to 92% at 
21.6°C; however, temperature did not have significant effect on this variable. 
The total immature survival of Cx. quinquefasciatus was significantly and 
positively affected by temperatures, ranging from 32 to 88%, at 16.6 and 25.2°C. 
The temperature development threshold and the physiological time estimated for 
Ae. aegypti and Cx. quinquefasciatus were 11.11°C and 93.74 degree-days, and 
10.96°C and 136.87 degree-days, respectively. The results of the present study 
showed that temperature significantly affects the larval-pupal immature traits 
of these mosquito species of sanitary importance, from the central region of 
Argentina. All the parameters recorded are useful for the development of 
mosquito management models.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.actatropica.2015.02.010
PMID: 25733491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


867. Am J Clin Nutr. 2015 Mar;101(3):613-21. doi: 10.3945/ajcn.114.100065. Epub
2015  Jan 14.

Physical activity and all-cause mortality across levels of overall and abdominal 
adiposity in European men and women: the European Prospective Investigation into 
Cancer and Nutrition Study (EPIC).

Ekelund U(1), Ward HA(1), Norat T(1), Luan J(1), May AM(1), Weiderpass E(1), 
Sharp SJ(1), Overvad K(1), Østergaard JN(1), Tjønneland A(1), Johnsen NF(1), 
Mesrine S(1), Fournier A(1), Fagherazzi G(1), Trichopoulou A(1), Lagiou P(1), 
Trichopoulos D(1), Li K(1), Kaaks R(1), Ferrari P(1), Licaj I(1), Jenab M(1), 
Bergmann M(1), Boeing H(1), Palli D(1), Sieri S(1), Panico S(1), Tumino R(1), 
Vineis P(1), Peeters PH(1), Monnikhof E(1), Bueno-de-Mesquita HB(1), Quirós 
JR(1), Agudo A(1), Sánchez MJ(1), Huerta JM(1), Ardanaz E(1), Arriola L(1), 
Hedblad B(1), Wirfält E(1), Sund M(1), Johansson M(1), Key TJ(1), Travis RC(1), 
Khaw KT(1), Brage S(1), Wareham NJ(1), Riboli E(1).

Author information:
(1)From the Medical Research Council (MRC) Epidemiology Unit, University of 
Cambridge, United Kingdom (UE, JL, SJS, SB, and NJW); the Department of Sport 
Medicine, Norwegian School of Sport Sciences, Oslo, Norway (UE); Imperial 
College, London, United Kingdom (HAW, TN, PV, HBB-d-M, and ER; University 
Medical Centre Utrecht, Julius Centre for Health Sciences and Primary Care, 
Utrecht, The Netherlands (AMM, PHP, and EM); the Department of Community 
Medicine, Faculty of Health Sciences, University of Tromsø, Tromsø, Norway (EW); 
the Department of Research, Cancer Registry of Norway, Oslo, Norway (EW); the 
Department of Medical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, Karolinska Institutet, 
Stockholm, Sweden (EW); Samfundet Folkhälsan, Helsinki, Finland (EW); the 
Section for Epidemiology, Department of Public Health, Aarhus University, 
Aarhus, Denmark (KO and JNØ); the Department of Cardiology, Center for 
Cardiovascular Research, Aalborg University Hospital, Aalborg, Denmark (KO and 
JNØ); Danish Cancer Society, Copenhagen, Denmark (A Tjønneland and NFJ); Inserm, 
Centre for Research in Epidemiology and Population Health, Nutrition, Hormones 
and Women's Health team, Villejuif, France (SM, AF, and GF); the Univeristy of 
Paris Sud, UMRS 1018, Villejuif, France (SM, AF, and GF); IGR, Villejuif, France 
(SM, AF, and GF); WHO Collaborating Center for Food and Nutrition Policies, 
Department of Hygiene, Epidemiology and Medical Statistics, University of Athens 
Medical School, Athens, Greece (A Trichopoulou and PL); Hellenic Health 
Foundation, Athens Greece (A Trichopoulou and DT); the Department of 
Epidemiology, Harvard School of Public Health, Boston, MA (PL and DT); the 
Bureau of Epidemiologic Research, Academy of Athens, Athens, Greece (PL and DT); 
the Division of Cancer Epidemiology, German Cancer Research Centre, Heidelberg, 
Germany (KL and RK); International Agency for Research on Cancer (IARC), Lyon, 
France (PF, IL, and MJ); the Department of Epidemiology, Deutsches Institut fü

Comment in
    Am J Clin Nutr. 2015 May;101(5):1099-101.
    Am J Clin Nutr. 2015 May;101(5):1101.

BACKGROUND: The higher risk of death resulting from excess adiposity may be 
attenuated by physical activity (PA). However, the theoretical number of deaths 
reduced by eliminating physical inactivity compared with overall and abdominal 
obesity remains unclear.
OBJECTIVE: We examined whether overall and abdominal adiposity modified the 
association between PA and all-cause mortality and estimated the population 
attributable fraction (PAF) and the years of life gained for these exposures.
DESIGN: This was a cohort study in 334,161 European men and women. The mean 
follow-up time was 12.4 y, corresponding to 4,154,915 person-years. Height, 
weight, and waist circumference (WC) were measured in the clinic. PA was 
assessed with a validated self-report instrument. The combined associations 
between PA, BMI, and WC with mortality were examined with Cox proportional 
hazards models, stratified by center and age group, and adjusted for sex, 
education, smoking, and alcohol intake. Center-specific PAF associated with 
inactivity, body mass index (BMI; in kg/m²) (>30), and WC (≥102 cm for men, ≥88 
cm for women) were calculated and combined in random-effects meta-analysis. 
Life-tables analyses were used to estimate gains in life expectancy for the 
exposures.
RESULTS: Significant interactions (PA × BMI and PA × WC) were observed, so HRs 
were estimated within BMI and WC strata. The hazards of all-cause mortality were 
reduced by 16-30% in moderately inactive individuals compared with those 
categorized as inactive in different strata of BMI and WC. Avoiding all 
inactivity would theoretically reduce all-cause mortality by 7.35% (95% CI: 
5.88%, 8.83%). Corresponding estimates for avoiding obesity (BMI >30) were 3.66% 
(95% CI: 2.30%, 5.01%). The estimates for avoiding high WC were similar to those 
for physical inactivity.
CONCLUSION: The greatest reductions in mortality risk were observed between the 
2 lowest activity groups across levels of general and abdominal adiposity, which 
suggests that efforts to encourage even small increases in activity in inactive 
individuals may be beneficial to public health.

DOI: 10.3945/ajcn.114.100065
PMCID: PMC4340064
PMID: 25733647 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


868. Int J Chron Obstruct Pulmon Dis. 2015 Feb 16;10:367-77. doi: 
10.2147/COPD.S76397. eCollection 2015.

Clinical variables impacting on the estimation of utilities in chronic 
obstructive pulmonary disease.

Miravitlles M(1), Huerta A(2), Valle M(3), García-Sidro P(4), Forné C(5), Crespo 
C(6), López-Campos JL(7).

Author information:
(1)Pneumology Department, Hospital Universitari Vall d'Hebron, Barcelona, Spain 
; CIBER de Enfermedades Respiratorias (CIBERES), Tres Cantos, Madrid, Spain.
(2)Market Access Department, GlaxoSmithKline, Tres Cantos, Madrid, Spain.
(3)Pneumology Department, Hospital Universitario Puerta de Hierro, Majadahonda, 
Madrid, Spain.
(4)Pneumology Department, Hospital Universitario de la Plana, Vila-real, 
Castellón, Spain.
(5)Health Economics and Outcome Strategies Department, Oblikue Consulting, 
Barcelona, Spain.
(6)Health Economics and Outcome Strategies Department, Oblikue Consulting, 
Barcelona, Spain ; Statistics Department, University of Barcelona, Barcelona, 
Spain.
(7)CIBER de Enfermedades Respiratorias (CIBERES), Tres Cantos, Madrid, Spain ; 
Unidad Médico Quirúrgica de Enfermedades Respiratorias, Instituto de Biomedicina 
de Sevilla, Hospital Universitario Virgen del Rocío, Universidad de Sevilla, 
Sevilla, Spain.

PURPOSE: Health utilities are widely used in health economics as a measurement 
of an individual's preference and show the value placed on different health 
states over a specific period. Thus, health utilities are used as a measure of 
the benefits of health interventions in terms of quality-adjusted life years. 
This study aimed to determine the demographic and clinical variables 
significantly associated with health utilities for chronic obstructive pulmonary 
disease (COPD) patients.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: This was a multicenter, observational, cross-sectional 
study conducted between October 2012 and April 2013. Patients were aged ≥40 
years, with spirometrically confirmed COPD. Utility values were derived from the 
preference-based generic questionnaire EQ-5D-3L applying weighted Spanish 
societal preferences. Demographic and clinical variables associated with 
utilities were assessed by univariate and multivariate linear regression models.
RESULTS: Three hundred and forty-six patients were included, of whom 85.5% were 
male. The mean age was 67.9 (standard deviation [SD] =9.7) years and the mean 
forced expiratory volume in 1 second (%) was 46.2% (SD =15.5%); 80.3% were 
former smokers, and the mean smoking history was 54.2 (SD =33.2) pack-years. 
Median utilities (interquartile range) were 0.81 (0.26) with a mean value of 
0.73 (SD =0.29); 22% of patients had a utility value of 1 (ceiling effect) and 
3.2% had a utility value lower than 0. The factors associated with utilities in 
the multivariate analysis were sex (beta =-0.084, 95% confidence interval [CI]: 
-0.154; -0.013 for females), number of exacerbations the previous year (-0.027, 
95% CI: -0.044; -0.010), and modified Medical Research Council Dyspnea Scale 
(mMRC) score (-0.123 [95% CI: -0.185; -0.061], -0.231 [95% CI: -0.301; -0.161], 
and -0.559 [95% CI: -0.660; -0.458] for mMRC scores 2, 3, and 4 versus 1), all 
P<0.05.
CONCLUSION: Multivariate analysis showed that female sex, frequent 
exacerbations, and an increased level of dyspnea were the main factors 
associated with reduced utility values in patients with COPD.

DOI: 10.2147/COPD.S76397
PMCID: PMC4337593
PMID: 25733826 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


869. J Korean Neurosurg Soc. 2015 Feb;57(2):100-7. doi:
10.3340/jkns.2015.57.2.100.  Epub 2015 Feb 26.

Minimally invasive option using percutaneous pedicle screw for instability of 
metastasis involving thoracolumbar and lumbar spine : a case series in a single 
center.

Park HY(1), Lee SH(1), Park SJ(2), Kim ES(1), Lee CS(1), Eoh W(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan University 
School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.
(2)Department of Orthopedic Surgery, Samsung Medical Center, Sungkyunkwan 
University School of Medicine, Seoul, Korea.

OBJECTIVE: To report a minimally invasive treatment option using percutaneous 
pedicle screw fixation with adjuvant treatment for metastatic thoraco-lumbar and 
lumbar spinal tumors.
METHODS: This is a retrospective study of charts of patients with spinal 
metastases. All were older than 18 years of age and were considered to have more 
than 3 months of life expectancy. The patients had single or two level lesions, 
and compression fracture or impending fracture. Exclusion criterion was 
metastasis showing severe epidural compression with definite neurological 
symptoms. Usually spinal segments from one level above to below pathology were 
stabilized. Visual analog scale (VAS) score for pain assessment and Frankel 
scale for neurological deficit were used, while pre- and post-operative 
performance status was evaluated using the Eastern Cooperative Oncology Group 
(ECOG).
RESULTS: Twelve patients (nine men, three women; median age 54.29 years) 
underwent surgery. All patients presented with back pain with/without radicular 
pain. There were no early complications and perioperative mortalities. Following 
surgery, a significant difference between average pre- and post-operative VAS 
scores was found (p=0.003). Overall, 91.8% of patients (11/12) experienced 
improvement in their ECOG score post-operatively. The mean ambulation time was 
196.9 days [95% confidence interval (CI), 86.2-307.6 days; median, 97 days]. 
During follow-up, nine patients died and the mean overall survival time in 
enrolled twelve patients was 249.9 days (95% CI, 145.3-354.4 days; median, 176 
days).
CONCLUSION: Minimally invasive treatment using percutaneous pedicle screw 
fixation with adjuvant treatment is a good alternative treatment option for 
potential instability of the thoraco-lumbar and lumbar spinal metastasis.

DOI: 10.3340/jkns.2015.57.2.100
PMCID: PMC4345186
PMID: 25733990


870. Am J Manag Care. 2015 Jan;21(4 Suppl):S63-72.

Economic evaluation of a fluocinolone acetonide intravitreal implant for 
patients with DME based on the FAME study.

Cutino A, Green K, Kendall R, Moore PT, Zachary C(1).

Author information:
(1)Alimera Sciences, 6120 Windward Parkway, Ste 290, Alpharetta, GA 30005. 
E-mail: Christopher.Zachary@alimerasciences.com.

INTRODUCTION: Diabetic macular edema (DME) is the most common cause of visual 
impairment in patients with diabetes. DME is a complex disease characterized by 
the deposition of fluid and proteins within the intraretinal layers, and the 
disease is recognized as being mediated by multiple cytokines, requiring a 
multifactorial therapeutic approach. Iluvien (fluocinolone acetonide 
intravitreal implant) 0.19 mg contains a corticosteroid, fluocinolone acetonide 
[FAc], and is indicated for the treatment of DME in patients who have been 
previously treated with a course of corticosteroids and did not have a 
clinically significant rise in intraocular pressure.
METHODS: A Markov model was constructed in Microsoft Excel with a 15-year time 
horizon comparing the healthcare and productivity costs with health outcomes 
from treatment. The model was structured around 13 best corrected visual acuity 
states using Early Treatment Diabetic Retinopathy Study scores. Observations and 
extrapolations from the Fluocinolone Acetonide for Diabetic Macular Edema study 
were applied to determine observed and ongoing treatment effects.
RESULTS: The expected incremental cost-effectiveness ratio for treatment with an 
FAc implant is $38,763, assuming 40% of patients are treated unilaterally; when 
100% of patients receive unilateral treatment with an FAc implant, it is 
cost-saving.
CONCLUSION: Administering an FAc implant to patients with DME previously treated 
with a corticosteroid is a cost-effective treatment option for ophthalmologists.

PMID: 25734663 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


871. Bioconjug Chem. 2015 Apr 15;26(4):746-54. doi:
10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.5b00076.  Epub 2015 Mar 10.

Potential electron mediators to extract electron energies of RBC glycolysis for 
prolonged in vivo functional lifetime of hemoglobin vesicles.

Kettisen K(1)(2), Bülow L(2), Sakai H(1).

Author information:
(1)†Department of Chemistry, Nara Medical University, Kashihara 634-8521, Japan.
(2)‡Department of Pure and Applied Biochemistry, Lund University, 221 00 Lund, 
Sweden.

Developing a functional blood substitute as an alternative to donated blood for 
clinical use is believed to relieve present and future blood shortages, and to 
reduce the risks of infection and blood type mismatching. Hemoglobin vesicle 
(HbV) encapsulates a purified and concentrated human-derived Hb solution in a 
phospholipid vesicle (liposome). The in vivo safety and efficacy of HbV as a 
transfusion alternative have been clarified. Auto-oxidation of ferrous Hb in HbV 
gradually increases the level of ferric methemoglobin (metHb) and impairs the 
oxygen transport capabilities. The extension of the functional half-life of HbV 
has recently been proposed using an electron mediator, methylene blue (MB), 
which acts as a shuttle between red blood cells (RBC) and HbV. MB transfers 
electron energies of NAD(P)H, produced by RBC glycolysis, to metHb in HbV. Work 
presented here focuses on screening of 15 potential electron mediators, with 
appropriate redox potential and water solubility, for electron transfer from RBC 
to HbV. The results are assessed with regard to the chemical properties of the 
candidates. The compounds examined in this study were dimethyl methylene blue 
(DMB), methylene green, azure A, azure B, azure C, toluidine blue (TDB), thionin 
acetate, phenazine methosulfate, brilliant cresyl blue, cresyl violet, 
gallocyanine, toluylene blue, indigo carmine, indigotetrasulfonate, and MB. Six 
candidates were found to be unsuitable because of their insufficient diffusion 
across membranes, or overly high or nonexistent reactivity with relevant 
biomolecules. However, 9 displayed favorable metHb reduction. Among the suitable 
candidates, phenothiazines DMB and TDB exhibited effectiveness like MB did. In 
comparison to MB, they showed faster reduction by electron-donating NAD(P)H, 
coupled with showing a lower rate of reoxidation in the presence of molecular 
oxygen. Ascertaining the best electron mediator can provide a pathway for 
extending the lifetime and efficiency of potential blood substitutes.

DOI: 10.1021/acs.bioconjchem.5b00076
PMID: 25734688 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


872. Mil Med. 2015 Mar;180(3):259-62. doi: 10.7205/MILMED-D-14-00419.

The strategic genius of Jonathan Letterman: the relevancy of the American Civil 
War to current health care policy makers.

Place RJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Office of the Surgeon General, 800 Army Pentagon, Room 3E585, Washington, DC 
20310-0800.

With expanding health insurance coverage, innovative technologies, improved 
diagnostic acumen, and pharmaceutical additions combining to increase life 
expectancy, quality of life, and concomitant costs, the American health care 
system is under significant stress. However, it pales in comparison to the 
challenges faced by health care leaders during the American Civil War. As we 
approach the 150th anniversary of the conclusion of that war, it is appropriate 
to review key strategic health care decisions faced by military leaders during 
the Civil War and how their resultant outcomes may provide an appropriate 
perspective for today's leaders.

Reprint & Copyright © 2015 Association of Military Surgeons of the U.S.

DOI: 10.7205/MILMED-D-14-00419
PMID: 25735014 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


873. Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2015 Jun;131(6):417-25. doi: 10.1111/acps.12408. Epub
2015  Mar 3.

A systematic review and meta-analysis of premature mortality in bipolar 
affective disorder.

Hayes JF(1)(2), Miles J(2), Walters K(3), King M(1), Osborn DP(1)(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Psychiatry, UCL, London, UK.
(2)Camden & Islington NHS Foundation Trust, NHS, London, UK.
(3)Department of Primary Care and Population Health, UCL, London, UK.

Comment in
    Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2015 Oct;132(4):315.
    Acta Psychiatr Scand. 2015 Oct;132(4):315-6.

OBJECTIVE: To review and complete meta-analysis of studies estimating 
standardised mortality ratios (SMRs) in bipolar affective disorder (BPAD) for 
all-cause and cause-specific mortalities.
METHOD: Cause-specific mortality was grouped into natural and unnatural causes. 
These subgroups were further divided into circulatory, respiratory, neoplastic 
and infectious causes, and suicide and other violent deaths. Summary SMRs were 
calculated using random-effects meta-analysis. Heterogeneity was examined via 
subgroup analysis and meta-regression.
RESULTS: Systematic searching found 31 studies meeting inclusion criteria. 
Summary SMR for all-cause mortality = 2.05 (95% CI 1.89-2.23), but heterogeneity 
was high (I(2) = 96.2%). This heterogeneity could not be accounted for by date 
of publication, cohort size, mid-decade of data collection, population type or 
geographical region. Unnatural death summary SMR = 7.42 (95% CI 6.43-8.55) and 
natural death = 1.64 (95% CI 1.47-1.83). Specifically, suicide SMR = 14.44 (95% 
CI 12.43-16.78), other violent death SMR = 3.68 (95% CI 2.77-4.90), deaths from 
circulatory disease = 1.73 (95% CI 1.54-1.94), respiratory disease = 2.92 (95% 
CI 2.00-4.23), infection = 2.25 (95% CI 1.70-3.00) and neoplasm = 1.14 (95% CI 
1.10-1.21).
CONCLUSION: Despite considerable heterogeneity, all summary SMR estimates and a 
large majority of individual studies showed elevated mortality in BPAD compared 
to the general population. This was true for all causes of mortality studied.

© 2015 The Authors. Acta Psychiatrica Scandinavica Published by John Wiley & 
Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/acps.12408
PMCID: PMC4939858
PMID: 25735195 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


874. Sci Rep. 2015 Mar 4;5:8742. doi: 10.1038/srep08742.

Analysis of accumulation patterns and preliminary study on the condensation 
mechanism of proanthocyanidins in the tea plant [Camellia sinensis].

Jiang X(1), Liu Y(2), Wu Y(1), Tan H(3), Meng F(1), Wang YS(2), Li M(1), Zhao 
L(4), Liu L(1), Qian Y(1), Gao L(2), Xia T(1).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Tea Plant Biology and Utilization, Anhui Agricultural 
University, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(2)School of Life Science, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(3)Biotechnology Center, Anhui Agricultural University, Hefei, Anhui, China.
(4)College of Horticulture, Qingdao Agricultural University, Qingdao, Shandong, 
China.

In the present study, proanthocyanidins were qualitatively and quantitatively 
identified using hydrolysis and thiolysis assays, NP-HPLC, HPLC-ESI-MS, 
MALDI-TOF-MS, (1)H-NMR, and (13)C-NMR techniques in different organs of tea 
plants. The results showed that in leaves, the tri-hydroxyl, cis- and 
galloylated flavan-3-ols were the main monomeric catechins units, and 
(epi)catechin was found to be the major unit of polymeric flavan-3-ols when the 
degree of polymerization was greater than five. In roots, the PAs were found to 
be abundant, and epicatechin formed the predominant extension unit of oligomeric 
and polymeric PAs. In order to understand the mechanism of proanthocyanidins 
polymerization, auto-condensation of the flavan-3-ols was investigated. The 
results showed that the same trimers (m/z 865) were detected in the extracts of 
tea plants and in the non-enzymatic in vitro assay, in weak acid as well as weak 
alkaline solutions at room temperature, when the substrates used were either 
procyanidin B2 and monomeric flavan-3-ols (epicatechin or catechin), or only 
procyanidin B2. This suggested that procyanidin B2 not only released carbocation 
as electrophilic upper units, but also could be used as nucleophilic lower units 
directly itself, to form the procyanidin trimer in vitro or in vivo.

DOI: 10.1038/srep08742
PMCID: PMC4348662
PMID: 25735226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


875. Ann Oncol. 2015 Jun;26(6):1263-1268. doi: 10.1093/annonc/mdv131. Epub 2015
Mar  3.

Life expectancy of colon, breast, and testicular cancer patients: an analysis of 
US-SEER population-based data.

Capocaccia R(1), Gatta G(2), Dal Maso L(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Preventive and Predictive Medicine, Evaluative Epidemiology 
Unit, Foundation National Cancer Institute, Milan; National Center of 
Epidemiology, Cancer Epidemiology Unit, National Institute of Health, Rome. 
Electronic address: riccardo.capocaccia@istitutotumori.mi.it.
(2)Department of Preventive and Predictive Medicine, Evaluative Epidemiology 
Unit, Foundation National Cancer Institute, Milan.
(3)Epidemiology and Biostatistics Unit, CRO Aviano National Cancer Institute 
IRCCS, Aviano, Italy.

BACKGROUND: Cancer survivorship is an increasingly important issue in cancer 
control. Life expectancy of patients diagnosed with breast, colon, and 
testicular cancers, stratified by age at diagnosis and time since diagnosis, is 
provided as an indicator to evaluate future mortality risks and health care 
needs of cancer survivors.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: The standard period life table methodology was applied to 
estimate excess mortality risk for cancer patients diagnosed in 1985-2011 from 
SEER registries and mortality data of the general US population. The sensitivity 
of life expectancy estimates on different assumptions was evaluated.
RESULTS: Younger patients with colon cancer showed wider differences in life 
expectancy compared with that of the general population (11.2 years in women and 
10.7 in men at age 45-49 years) than older patients (6.3 and 5.8 at age 60-64 
years, respectively). Life expectancy progressively increases in patients 
surviving the first years, up to 4 years from diagnosis, and then starts to 
decrease again, approaching that of the general population. For breast cancer, 
the initial drop in life expectancy is less marked, and again with wider 
differences in younger patients, varying from 8.7 at age 40-44 years to 2.4 at 
ages 70-74 years. After diagnosis, life expectancy still decreases with time, 
but less than that in the general population, slowly approaching that of 
cancer-free women. Life expectancy of men diagnosed with testicular cancer at 
age 30 years is estimated as 45.2 years, 2 years less than cancer-free men of 
the same age. The difference becomes 1.3 years for patients surviving the first 
year, and then slowly approaches zero with increasing survival time.
CONCLUSIONS: Life expectancy provides meaningful information on cancer patients, 
and can help in assessing when a cancer survivor can be considered as cured.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the 
European Society for Medical Oncology. All rights reserved. For permissions, 
please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/annonc/mdv131
PMID: 25735314 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


876. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2015;16(3):1295-301. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.3.1295.

The economic burden of cancer in Korea in 2009.

Kim SY(1), Park JH, Kang KH, Hwang I, Yang HK, Won YJ, Seo HG, Lee D, Yoon SJ.

Author information:
(1)Office for Public Healthcare, Chungbuk National University Hospital, Chungbuk 
National University, Cheong- ju, Korea E-mail : jonghyock@chungbuk.ac.kr, 
jonghyock@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Cancer imposes a significant economic burden on individuals, 
families and society. The purpose of this study was to estimate the economic 
burden of cancer using the healthcare claims and cancer registry data in Korea 
in 2009.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: The economic burden of cancer was estimated using the 
prevalence data where patients were identified in the Korean Central Cancer 
Registry. We estimated the medical, non-medical, morbidity and mortality cost 
due to lost productivity. Medical costs were calculated using the healthcare 
claims data obtained from the Korean National Health Insurance (KNHI) 
Corporation. Non-medical costs included the cost of transportation to visit 
health providers, costs associated with caregiving for cancer patients, and 
costs for complementary and alternative medicine (CAM). Data acquired from the 
Korean National Statistics Office and Ministry of Labor were used to calculate 
the life expectancy at the time of death, age- and gender-specific wages on 
average, adjusted for unemployment and labor force participation rate. 
Sensitivity analysis was performed to derive the current value of foregone 
future earnings due to premature death, discounted at 3% and 5%.
RESULTS: In 2009, estimated total economic cost of cancer amounted to $17.3 
billion at a 3% discount rate. Medical care accounted for 28.3% of total costs, 
followed by non-medical (17.2%), morbidity (24.2%) and mortality (30.3%) costs.
CONCLUSIONS: Given that the direct medical cost sharply increased over the last 
decade, we must strive to construct a sustainable health care system that 
provides better care while lowering the cost. In addition, a comprehensive 
cancer survivorship policy aimed at lower caregiving cost and higher rate of 
return to work has become more important than previously considered.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.3.1295
PMID: 25735370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


877. Echocardiography. 2015 Aug;32(8):1318-21. doi: 10.1111/echo.12919. Epub 2015
Mar  3.

Giant Purulent Pericarditis with Cardiac Tamponade Due to Streptococcus 
intermedius Rapidly Progressing to Constriction.

Tigen ET(1), Sari I(2), Ak K(3), Sert S(2), Tigen K(2), Korten V(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Infectious Diseases, School of Medicine, Marmara University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.
(2)Department of Cardiology, School of Medicine, Marmara University, Istanbul, 
Turkey.
(3)Department of Cardiovascular Surgery, School of Medicine, Marmara University, 
Istanbul, Turkey.

Purulent pericardial effusion, although rare, is a life-threatening condition 
usually produced by the extension of a nearby bacterial infection locus or by 
blood dissemination in the immune-suppressed subjects or in the course of 
cardiothoracic surgery. Because clinical features of purulent pericardial 
effusion are often nonspecific, it can cause delay in diagnosis. Therefore, a 
high index of suspicion is required for timely diagnosis and management. Herein, 
we describe a case of giant purulent pericardial effusion due to Streptococcus 
intermedius with the history of bronchiectasis and pneumonia, which was 
successfully treated with pericardiocentesis via parasternal approach, 
appropriate antibiotics, and pericardiectomy.

© 2015, Wiley Periodicals, Inc.

DOI: 10.1111/echo.12919
PMID: 25735951 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


878. Eur Urol. 2015 Aug;68(2):175-8. doi: 10.1016/j.eururo.2015.02.020. Epub 2015
Feb  27.

Changing Trends in Surgical Management of Prostate Cancer: The End of 
Overtreatment?

Huland H(1), Graefen M(2).

Author information:
(1)Martini-Clinic Prostate Cancer Center, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany.
(2)Martini-Clinic Prostate Cancer Center, University Hospital Hamburg-Eppendorf, 
Hamburg, Germany. Electronic address: graefen@uke.uni-hamburg.de.

The use of prostate-specific antigen (PSA) for screening or early detection of 
prostate cancer (PCa) results in significant stage migration toward more 
favorable stages and a proven decrease in PCa mortality but is accompanied by 
substantial rates of overdiagnosis and overtreatment. Acknowledgement of these 
downsides and endeavors to avoid them have led to substantial changes in 
treatment patterns. Many centers have reported dramatic changes, with increases 
in active surveillance (AS) of early cancers and local treatment of advanced 
disease. To estimate the impact of this development on our radical prostatectomy 
(RP) series, we analyzed changes in cancer and patient selection over the past 
15 yr. Despite a trend toward decreased utilization of RP in Germany, the annual 
caseload at our institution increased due to regionalization, from 382 RPs in 
2000 to 2145 in 2011, and has been stable for the past 3 yr (2106 RPs in 2014). 
The rate of RPs performed in patients with low-risk PCa, AS candidates, or men 
with a pure Gleason 6 pattern in the RP specimen dropped from 60%, 38.2%, and 
56.2%, respectively, in 2004 to 27%, 14.7%, and 10%, respectively, in 2011-2013. 
Patients undergoing RP with solely Gleason 6 cancer were younger on average 
(aged 61 yr) than patients in higher risk groups (aged 65 yr). The rate of 
histologically insignificant PCa was low, ranging from 1% to 8.8% depending on 
the definition used. Patient selection is the other important tool used to avoid 
overtreatment. Long-term other-cause mortality (OCM) should be low in adequately 
selected RP candidates, and after a minimum follow-up of 15 yr, overall OCM was 
14.8%. The OCM rate was 10.2% in men aged <65 yr and 24.3% in men aged ≥65 yr. 
The current analysis documents a clear shift in utilization of RP toward 
significant PCa in men with long life expectancy. Based on patient and cancer 
selection as described, the long-standing discussion of overtreatment with RP 
might become invalid.
PATIENT SUMMARY: Discussion of possible overtreatment has led to dramatic 
changes in indication for radical prostatectomy (RP). We analyzed a large 
European patient cohort and found that RP is rarely done in early cancers but is 
used more for aggressive tumors. Those who underwent RP had long life expectancy 
and benefit from surgery. With this change in application, overtreatment with RP 
is unlikely.

Copyright © 2015 European Association of Urology. Published by Elsevier B.V. All 
rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.eururo.2015.02.020
PMID: 25736732 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


879. Ann Emerg Med. 2015 May;65(5):556-563.e6. doi: 
10.1016/j.annemergmed.2014.12.028. Epub 2015 Feb 27.

Cost-effectiveness of Out-of-Hospital Continuous Positive Airway Pressure for 
Acute Respiratory Failure.

Thokala P(1), Goodacre S(2), Ward M(3), Penn-Ashman J(3), Perkins GD(4).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
United Kingdom. Electronic address: p.thokala@sheffield.ac.uk.
(2)School of Health and Related Research, University of Sheffield, Sheffield, 
United Kingdom.
(3)West Midlands Ambulance Service National Health Service Foundation Trust, 
Brierley Hill, West Midlands, United Kingdom.
(4)Warwick Medical School and Heart of England National Health Service 
Foundation Trust, Coventry, United Kingdom.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: We determine the cost-effectiveness of out-of-hospital 
continuous positive airway pressure (CPAP) compared with standard care for 
adults presenting to emergency medical services with acute respiratory failure.
METHODS: We developed an economic model using a United Kingdom health care 
system perspective to compare the costs and health outcomes of out-of-hospital 
CPAP to standard care (inhospital noninvasive ventilation) when applied to a 
hypothetical cohort of patients with acute respiratory failure. The model 
assigned each patient a probability of intubation or death, depending on the 
patient's characteristics and whether he or she had out-of-hospital CPAP or 
standard care. The patients who survived accrued lifetime quality-adjusted 
life-years (QALYs) and health care costs according to their age and sex. Costs 
were accrued through intervention and hospital treatment costs, which depended 
on patient outcomes. All results were converted into US dollars, using the 
Organisation for Economic Co-operation and Development purchasing power parities 
rates.
RESULTS: Out-of-hospital CPAP was more effective than standard care but was also 
more expensive, with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of £20,514 per QALY 
($29,720/QALY) and a 49.5% probability of being cost-effective at the £20,000 
per QALY ($29,000/QALY) threshold. The probability of out-of-hospital CPAP's 
being cost-effective at the £20,000 per QALY ($29,000/QALY) threshold depended 
on the incidence of eligible patients and varied from 35.4% when a low estimate 
of incidence was used to 93.8% with a high estimate. Variation in the incidence 
of eligible patients also had a marked influence on the expected value of sample 
information for a future randomized trial.
CONCLUSION: The cost-effectiveness of out-of-hospital CPAP is uncertain. The 
incidence of patients eligible for out-of-hospital CPAP appears to be the key 
determinant of cost-effectiveness.

Copyright © 2015 American College of Emergency Physicians. Published by Elsevier 
Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annemergmed.2014.12.028
PMCID: PMC4414542
PMID: 25737210 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


880. J Arthroplasty. 2015 Jul;30(7):1118-20. doi: 10.1016/j.arth.2015.02.017.
Epub  2015 Feb 19.

Updating Cost Effectiveness Analyses in Orthopedic Surgery: Resilience of the 
$50,000 per QALY Threshold.

Nwachukwu BU(1), Bozic KJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, New York. Electronic address: 
nwachukwub@hss.edu.
(2)University of California at San Francisco, San Francisco, California.

Attention is being paid in the United States (U.S.) to defining and measuring 
the value of interventions in healthcare. Traditionally, $50,000 per QALY gained 
has been the accepted "cost-effectiveness threshold" with which cost 
effectiveness is defined. The validity of this threshold has been called into 
question largely due to inexact origins; absence of inflationary adjustments and 
lack of consideration for high gross domestic product of the U.S.
POPULATION: There is an opportunity to reassess how we interpret cost utility 
analyses and the ratios published therein. Orthopedic surgery has typically 
lagged behind other fields of medicine in self-advocacy and the 
adoption/implementation of health economic theory. We argue for tiered QALY 
thresholds of $50,000, $100,000 and $150,000 corresponding respectively to 
Governmental, Societal and Health systems analysis perspectives.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.arth.2015.02.017
PMID: 25737385 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


881. PLoS Curr. 2015 Feb
19;7:ecurrents.outbreaks.01a99f8342b42a58d806d7d1749574ea.  doi:
10.1371/currents.outbreaks.01a99f8342b42a58d806d7d1749574ea.

Assessing the direct effects of the ebola outbreak on life expectancy in 
liberia, sierra leone and Guinea.

Helleringer S(1), Noymer A(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of population, family and reproductive health, Bloomberg School of 
Public Health, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore, Maryland, USA.
(2)Population Health and Disease Prevention, Program in Public Health, 
University of California, Irvine, California, USA.

BACKGROUND: An EVD outbreak may reduce life expectancy directly (due to high 
mortality among EVD cases) and indirectly (e.g., due to lower utilization of 
healthcare and subsequent increases in non-EVD mortality). In this paper, we 
investigated the direct effects of EVD on life expectancy in Liberia, Sierra 
Leone and Guinea (LSLG thereafter).
METHODS: We used data on EVD cases and deaths published in situation reports by 
the World Health Organization (WHO), as well as data on the age of EVD cases 
reported from patient datasets. We used data on non-EVD mortality from the most 
recent life tables published prior to the EVD outbreak. We then formulated three 
scenarios based on hypotheses about a) the extent of under-reporting of EVD 
cases and b) the EVD case fatality ratio. For each scenario, we re-estimated the 
number of EVD deaths in LSLG and we applied standard life table techniques to 
calculate life expectancy.
RESULTS: In Liberia, possible reductions in life expectancy resulting from EVD 
deaths ranged from 1.63 year (low EVD scenario) to 5.56 years (high EVD 
scenario), whereas in Sierra Leone, possible life expectancy declines ranged 
from 1.38 to 5.10 years. In Guinea, the direct effects of EVD on life expectancy 
were more limited (<1.20 year).
CONCLUSIONS: Our high EVD scenario suggests that, due to EVD deaths, life 
expectancy may have declined in Liberia and Sierra Leone to levels these two 
countries had not experienced since 2001-2003, i.e., approximately the end of 
their civil wars. The total effects of EVD on life expectancy may however be 
larger due to possible concomitant increases in non-EVD mortality during the 
outbreak.

DOI: 10.1371/currents.outbreaks.01a99f8342b42a58d806d7d1749574ea
PMCID: PMC4339316
PMID: 25737805


882. J Clin Diagn Res. 2015 Jan;9(1):XE01-XE03. doi: 10.7860/JCDR/2015/9375.5391.
 Epub 2015 Jan 1.

Can Aspirin and Cancer Prevention be Ageless Companions?

Farag M(1).

Author information:
(1)Senior Research Fellow, Department of Cardiology, East & North Herts NHS 
Trust, Lister Hospital Cardiac Centre, Coreys Mill Lane , Stevenage, 
Hertfordshire, SG1 4AB .

Over the past few decades, the rate of cancer diagnosis has increased worldwide 
due to the increase in population and average life expectancy, and also, due to 
the advances in diagnostic medical technology that facilitate early cancer 
detection and recognition. Nonetheless, the treatment options have not been 
developed proportional to this increase, with a huge number of patients 
frequently being diagnosed with different types of fatal cancer. This has 
prompted different health organizations to search for novel strategies to 
prevent cancer, or even halt its progression. Having failed to provide optimum 
vascular protection benefits, especially with the introduction of relatively 
superior antiplatelets, such as adenosine diphosphate (ADP) receptor inhibitors; 
clopidogrel and ticagrelor, regular aspirin use was proposed to reduce the risk 
of common cancers like colorectal cancer, gastric cancer, breast cancer, lung 
cancer, prostate cancer and haematological malignancies, as suggested by 
epidemiological studies. However, it is difficult to draw any firm conclusions 
on such weak data, as this could raise false hopes among patients and physicians 
and could potentially mislead scientific research. Clearly, current evidence 
highlights a gap in medical research and emphasizes the need to carry out 
interventional studies in high risk for cancer patients using specific aspirin 
doses in order to validate the data. This should also shed some light on the 
risk-benefit profile in view of the potential for bleeding complications, 
especially with the higher doses.

DOI: 10.7860/JCDR/2015/9375.5391
PMCID: PMC4347165
PMID: 25738074


883. Ann Transl Med. 2015 Feb;3(2):25. doi: 10.3978/j.issn.2305-5839.2015.01.06.

Surgery or stereotactic ablative radiation therapy: how will be treated operable 
patients with early stage not small cell lung cancer in the next future?

Bertolaccini L(1), Terzi A(1), Ricchetti F(1), Alongi F(1).

Author information:
(1)1 Thoracic Surgery Unit, 2 Radiation Oncology Department, Sacro Cuore-Don 
Calabria Hospital, 37024 Negrar Verona, Italy.

Lung neoplasm is the most influent cause of death for cancer. With the 
increasing of life expectancy in elderly patients and with the intensification 
of lung cancer screening by low-dose computed tomography, a further rise of the 
number of new non-small cell lung cancer (NSCLC) cases has been shown. Standard 
of care of early stage NSCLC patients is lobectomy but approximately 20% of them 
are not fit for surgery for comorbidities. Due to the high local control rates 
and the little adverse effects, stereotactic body radiation therapy (SBRT) also 
called stereotactic ablative radiation therapy (SABR), has rapidly replaced the 
conventional radiotherapy in not operable patients with stage I NSCLC. We review 
the evidence for use of SABR in medically inoperable patients with stage I 
NSCLC, and its possible extension of use to operable patients, from the 
perspectives of radiation oncologists and thoracic surgeons. Until the results 
of large randomized trials will be available, the multidisciplinary management, 
balancing during discussion the advantages/disadvantages of each treatment 
modality, could be the coming soon best approach for medically operable 
early-stage NSCLC. As a result, the minimally invasive thoracic surgery 
advantages and the SABR innovations will be translated into real clinical 
benefits.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2305-5839.2015.01.06
PMCID: PMC4322166
PMID: 25738145


884. Medicine (Baltimore). 2015 Mar;94(9):e590. doi: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000590.

Cost-utility of angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor-based treatment compared 
with thiazide diuretic-based treatment for hypertension in elderly Australians 
considering diabetes as comorbidity.

Chowdhury EK(1), Ademi Z, Moss JR, Wing LMH, Reid CM; Second Australian National 
Blood Pressure Study Management Committee.

Author information:
(1)From the Centre of Cardiovascular Research and Education in Therapeutics 
(EKC, ZA, CMR), Department of Epidemiology and Preventive Medicine, Monash 
University, Melbourne, Australia; Institute of Pharmaceutical Medicine (ZA), 
University of Basel, Basel, Switzerland; School of Population Health (JM), The 
University of Adelaide; and Department of Clinical Pharmacology (LMHW), School 
of Medicine, Flinders University, Adelaide, Australia.

The objective of this study was to examine the cost-effectiveness of 
angiotensin-converting enzyme inhibitor (ACEI)-based treatment compared with 
thiazide diuretic-based treatment for hypertension in elderly Australians 
considering diabetes as an outcome along with cardiovascular outcomes from the 
Australian government's perspective.We used a cost-utility analysis to estimate 
the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) per quality-adjusted life-year 
(QALY) gained. Data on cardiovascular events and new onset of diabetes were used 
from the Second Australian National Blood Pressure Study, a randomized clinical 
trial comparing diuretic-based (hydrochlorothiazide) versus ACEI-based 
(enalapril) treatment in 6083 elderly (age ≥65 years) hypertensive patients over 
a median 4.1-year period. For this economic analysis, the total study population 
was stratified into 2 groups. Group A was restricted to participants diabetes 
free at baseline (n = 5642); group B was restricted to participants with 
preexisting diabetes mellitus (type 1 or type 2) at baseline (n = 441). Data on 
utility scores for different events were used from available published 
literatures; whereas, treatment and adverse event management costs were 
calculated from direct health care costs available from Australian government 
