risk) using the combination of eGFR and albuminuria levels.
RESULTS: Among men aged 50 years and with eGFR ≥60 mL/min/1.73 m(2), estimated 
life expectancy was 24.8 (95% CI: 24.6-25.0), 17.5 (95% CI: 17.1-17.9), and 13.5 
(95% CI: 12.6-14.3) years for participants with normal, mild and heavy 
albuminuria respectively. Life expectancy for men with mild and heavy 
albuminuria was 7.3 (95% CI: 6.9-7.8) and 11.3 (95% CI: 10.5-12.2) years shorter 
than men with normal proteinuria, respectively. A reduction in life expectancy 
was associated with an increasing severity of kidney disease; 24.8 years for low 
risk (95% CI: 24.6-25.0), 19.1 years for moderately increased risk (95% CI: 
18.7-19.5), 14.2 years for high risk (95% CI: 13.5-15.0), and 9.6 years for very 
high risk (95% CI: 8.4-10.8). Among women of similar age and kidney function, 
estimated life expectancy was 28.9 (95% CI: 28.7-29.1), 19.8 (95% CI: 
19.2-20.3), and 14.8 (95% CI: 13.5-16.0) years for participants with normal, 
mild and heavy albuminuria respectively. Life expectancy for women with mild and 
heavy albuminuria was 9.1 (95% CI: 8.5-9.7) and 14.2 (95% CI: 12.9-15.4) years 
shorter than the women with normal proteinuria, respectively. For women also a 
graded reduction in life expectancy was observed across the increasing severity 
of kidney disease; 28.9 years for low risk (95% CI: 28.7-29.1), 22.5 years for 
moderately increased risk (95% CI: 22.0-22.9), 16.5 years for high risk (95% CI: 
15.4-17.5), and 9.2 years for very high risk (95% CI: 7.8-10.7).
LIMITATIONS: Possible misclassification of long-term kidney function categories 
cannot be eliminated. Possibility of confounding due to concomitant 
comorbidities cannot be ruled out.
CONCLUSION: The presence and degree of albuminuria was associated with lower 
estimated life expectancy for both gender and was especially notable in those 
with eGFR ≥30 mL/min/1.73 m(2). Life expectancy associated with a given level of 
eGFR differs substantially based on the presence and severity of albuminuria.

Publisher: CONTEXTE: La diminution du débit de la filtration glomérulaire est 
associée à la réduction de l’espérance de vie. Par contre, le rôle que joue un 
autre facteur important de la néphropathie chronique dans ce lien, soit la 
présence ou l’absence d’albuminurie, reste inconnu.
OBJECTIFS: Notre objectif était d’estimer l’espérance de vie d’hommes et de 
femmes d’âge moyen avec des mesures du débit de filtration glomérulaire estimé 
(eDFG) et de dosages d’albuminuries concomitantes.
TYPE D’ÉTUDE: Étude rétrospective de cohortes.
CONTEXTE: Une vaste cohorte de population provenant du registre du laboratoire 
provincial de l’Alberta, au Canada.
PARTICIPANTS: Adultes âgés ≥ 30 ans ayant fait mesurer leurs concentrations de 
créatinine sérique et d’albumine urinaire en clinique externe entre le 1er mai 
2002 et le 31 mars 2008.
MESURES: Variable prédictive: État de la fonction rénale à l’entrée de l’étude, 
telle qu’évaluée en fonction des dosages de créatinémie et d’albuminurie. 
Résultat: toute mortalité, quelle qu’en soit la cause, pendant le suivi.
MÉTHODES: Les patients ont été classés en fonction de leur évaluation du débit 
de filtration glomérulaire estimé (eDFG) (60, 45–59, 30–44, et 
15–29 mL/min/1,73 m2) et de leur concentration d’albumine urinaire (normale, 
basse, élevée): mesures prises soit par rapport albumine/créatinine, ou par 
analyse au moyen d’une bandelette réactive. La méthodologie des tables abrégées 
de mortalité a été utilisée pour calculer l’espérance de vie des hommes et des 
femmes âgés de 40 à 80 ans à l’intérieur des deux catégories combinées. Nous 
avons également catégorisé les participants par degré de sévérité de 
néphropathie (faible risque, risques modéré et élevé, et très haut risque) en 
combinant les résultats des évaluations du eDFG et des dosages d’albuminurie.
RÉSULTATS: Parmi les hommes âgés de 50 ans qui avaient un eDFG 
≥60 mL/min/1,73 m2, l’espérance de vie était estimée à 24,8 (95% CI: 24,6-25,0), 
17,5 (95% CI: 17,1-17,9), et 13,5 (95% CI: 12,6-14,3) années pour les 
participants ayant des concentrations d’albuminurie normales, basses et élevées, 
respectivement. L’espérance de vie pour les hommes avec des concentrations 
d’albuminurie basses et élevées était écourtée de 7,3 (95% CI: 6,9-7,8) et de 
11,3 (95% CI: 10,5-12,2) années, comparativement aux hommes ayant obtenu des 
concentrations de protéinurie normales. Une diminution de l’espérance de vie a 
été associée avec le degré de sévérité de la néphropathie: 24,8 ans pour un 
risque faible (95% CI: 24,6-25,0), 19,1 ans pour un risque modéré (95% CI: 
18,7-19,5), 14,2 ans pour un risque élevé (95% CI: 13,5-15,0), et 9,6 ans pour 
un très haut risque (95% CI: 8,4-10,8). Parmi les femmes d’âge et d’état de la 
fonction rénale similaires, l’espérance de vie était estimée à 28,9 (95% CI: 
28,7-29,1), 19,8 (95% CI: 19,2-20,3), et 14,8 (95% CI: 13,5-16,0) années pour 
les participantes ayant des concentrations d’albumine urinaire normales, basses 
et élevées, respectivement. L’espérance de vie pour les femmes avec des 
concentrations d’albuminurie basses et élevées était écourtée de 9,1 (95% CI: 
8,5-9,7) et de 14,2 (95% CI: 12,9-15,4) années comparativement aux femmes 
obtenant des concentrations normales de protéinurie, respectivement. Pour les 
femmes, également, l’espérance de vie diminuait au fur et à mesure que le degré 
de sévérité de la néphropathie augmentait: de 28,9 ans pour celles à faible 
risque (95% CI: 28,7-29,1), de 22,5 ans pour celles à risque modéré (95% CI: 
22,0-22,9), de 16,5 ans pour celles à risque élevé (95% CI: 15,4-17,5), et de 
9,2 ans pour celles à très haut risque (95% CI: 7,8-10,7).
LIMITES DE L’ÉTUDE: Nous ne pouvons éliminer la possibilité d’une erreur lors du 
classement à partir de l’état de la fonction rénale. Les facteurs de confusion 
causés par une comorbidité concomitante ne peuvent, également, être complètement 
éliminés.
CONCLUSION: La présence et la sévérité de l’albuminurie ont été associées avec 
une espérance de vie diminuée chez les participants des deux sexes et était 
particulièrement appréciable chez les sujets avec un DFG de ≥30 mL/min/1.73 m2. 
L’espérance de vie associée à un DFG donné variait considérablement selon la 
présence d’albuminurie et sa sévérité.

DOI: 10.1186/s40697-014-0033-6
PMCID: PMC4349777
PMID: 25780622


15. Zootaxa. 2015 Feb 11;3918(2):194-208. doi: 10.11646/zootaxa.3918.2.2.

A new East-Asian species in the Chrysoperla carnea-group of cryptic lacewing 
species (Neuroptera: Chrysopidae) based on distinct larval morphology and a 
unique courtship song.

Henry CS(1), Brooks SJ(2), Johnson JB(3), Haruyama N(4), Duelli P(5), Mochizuki 
A(6).

Author information:
(1)Ecology and Evolutionary Biology, University of Connecticut, Storrs, CT 
06269, USA.; Email: charles.henry@uconn.edu.
(2)Life Sciences Department, Natural History Museum, London SW7 5BD, ENGLAND.; 
Email: s.brooks@nhm.ac.uk.
(3)Division of Entomology, University of Idaho, Moscow, ID 83844, USA.; Email: 
djohnson@uidaho.edu.
(4)Plant Protection Section, Tochigi Prefectural Sustainable Agriculture 
Extension Center, Utsunomiya, Tochigi 321-0974, JAPAN.; Email: fzzzf91v@msn.com.
(5)WSL Swiss Federal Research Institute, CH-8903 Birmensdorf, Switzerland.; 
Email: peter.duelli@wsl.ch.
(6)National Institute for Agro-Environmental Sciences, Tsukuba, Ibaraki 
305-8604, JAPAN.; Email: lepi@affrc.go.jp.

Larval morphology and substrate-borne vibrational courtship songs have been 
hypothesized to distinguish and isolate Chrysoperla 'nipponensis-B' from true 
'Type A' Chrysoperla nipponensis (Okamoto), both of which occur sympatrically in 
eastern Asia. Here, we formally describe C. 'nipponensis-B' as Chrysoperla 
nigrocapitata sp.n., based on populations sampled throughout Japan and at two 
sites in South Korea. Behavioral playback experiments show that males and 
females of each species reject the duetting songs of non-conspecifics, 
supporting the existence in nature of strong premating reproductive isolation 
between the two species. Detailed morphological analysis substantiates that the 
adults of the two species are nearly identical. However, the dorsum of the 
larval head of C. nigrocapitata is usually darkly and heavily pigmented, in 
striking contrast to the condition seen in C. nipponensis; if available, it is 
probably the best trait for distinguishing the two species morphologically. 
Other aspects of life history, ecology, geographic distribution, and molecular 
systematics of the new species are briefly considered.

DOI: 10.11646/zootaxa.3918.2.2
PMID: 25781088 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


16. Int J Urol. 2015 May;22(5):432-8. doi: 10.1111/iju.12734. Epub 2015 Mar 17.

Active surveillance for clinically localized renal tumors: An updated review of 
current indications and clinical outcomes.

Borghesi M(1), Brunocilla E, Volpe A, Dababneh H, Pultrone CV, Vagnoni V, La 
Manna G, Porreca A, Martorana G, Schiavina R.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, University of Bologna, S. Orsola-Malpighi Hospital, 
Bologna, Italy; Department of Medical and Surgical Sciences, University of 
Bologna, Bologna, Italy.

The widespread use of abdominal imaging has led to an increasing detection of 
small renal masses, and approximately 20-30% of those tumors will prove to be 
benign, with low metastatic potential if not immediately treated. In elderly or 
comorbid patients diagnosed with small renal masses, competing cause mortality 
seems to exceed cancer-specific mortality at short- and intermediate-term follow 
up. In these cases, surgery might represent an overtreatment, and an expectant 
management, such as active surveillance, might be proposed. According to the 
current available evidence, active surveillance is a safe and reasonable option 
for patients with renal tumors ≤4 cm (cT1a) and short life expectancy. A few 
studies with short-term follow up reported the preliminary results of active 
surveillance even in cT1b-cT2 tumors, with acceptable risk of disease 
progression and mortality, even if this approach should be considered in this 
setting only for highly-selected and well-informed patients. Furthermore, 
surveillance protocols can be proposed in selected patients with uncomplicated 
benign tumors, such as angiomyolipomas, in which active surveillance should be 
considered the initial standard management. At present, reliable clinical 
predictors of a tumor's growth rate and aggressiveness are not available. Renal 
tumor biopsy is useful in the clinical work-up of patients who are candidates 
for active surveillance, in order to improve patient selection based on tumor 
histological characterization. Despite the proof of safety offered by expectant 
management for small renal masses in selected patients, further prospective 
studies with longer follow up are required in order to confirm the indications 
and long-term oncological outcomes of active surveillance protocols for renal 
tumors.

© 2015 The Japanese Urological Association.

DOI: 10.1111/iju.12734
PMID: 25781204 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


17. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 17;10(3):e0120668. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120668. 
eCollection 2015.

A deletion in FOXN1 is associated with a syndrome characterized by congenital 
hypotrichosis and short life expectancy in Birman cats.

Abitbol M(1), Bossé P(1), Thomas A(2), Tiret L(1).

Author information:
(1)U955 IMRB, INSERM, Équipe 10, Créteil, France; BNMS-Génétique Médicale 
Comparée des Affections Neuromusculaires, École nationale vétérinaire d'Alfort, 
Maisons-Alfort, France.
(2)Antagene, La Tour de Salvagny, France.

An autosomal recessive syndrome characterized by congenital hypotrichosis and 
short life expectancy has been described in the Birman cat breed (Felis 
silvestris catus). We hypothesized that a FOXN1 (forkhead box N1) 
loss-of-function allele, associated with the nude phenotype in humans, mice and 
rats, may account for the syndrome observed in Birman cats. To the best of our 
knowledge, spontaneous mutations in FOXN1 have never been described in 
non-human, non-rodent mammalian species. We identified a recessive 
c.1030_1033delCTGT deletion in FOXN1 in Birman cats. This 4-bp deletion was 
associated with the syndrome when present in two copies. Percentage of healthy 
carriers in our French panel of genotyped Birman cats was estimated to be 3.2%. 
The deletion led to a frameshift and a premature stop codon at position 547 in 
the protein. In silico, the truncated FOXN1 protein was predicted to lack the 
activation domain and critical parts of the forkhead DNA binding domain, both 
involved in the interaction between FOXN1 and its targets, a mandatory step to 
promote normal hair and thymic epithelial development. Our results enlarge the 
panel of recessive FOXN1 loss-of-function alleles described in mammals. A DNA 
test is available; it will help owners avoid matings at risk and should prevent 
the dissemination of this morbid mutation in domestic felines.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120668
PMCID: PMC4363148
PMID: 25781316 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: I have read the journal's 
policy and one of the authors of this manuscript has the following competing 
interests: AT is an employee of Antagene, a for-profit company selling 
diagnostic tests in cats. This does not alter the authors' adherence to PLOS ONE 
policies on sharing data and materials. The three other authors (MA, PB and LT) 
declare that they have no competing interests.


18. J Midwifery Womens Health. 2015 Mar-Apr;60(2):146-57; quiz 225. doi: 
10.1111/jmwh.12236.

Primary care of women aging with HIV.

Womack JA, Brandt CA, Justice AC.

Women are living longer with HIV infection, but their life expectancy remains 
shorter than for women in the general population. How best to manage the 
multiple comorbidities and polypharmacy that are common in individuals wtih HIV 
has not been studied. This article explores areas where the primary care of 
women with HIV may differ from that of aging women in the general population. We 
also discuss aspects of care that may not commonly be considered in those under 
the age of 65, specifically multimorbidity and polypharmacy. Incorporating a 
gerontologic approach in the care of these women may optimize outcomes until 
research provides more definitive answers for how best to collaborate with women 
with HIV in order to provide them with optimal care.

© 2015 by the American College of Nurse-Midwives.

DOI: 10.1111/jmwh.12236
PMCID: PMC5031409
PMID: 25782848 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have no conflicts of interest to 
disclose.


19. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2015 Apr;36(4):438-44. doi:
10.1017/ice.2014.80.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of fecal microbiota transplantation for recurrent 
Clostridium difficile infection.

Varier RU(1), Biltaji E(2), Smith KJ(3), Roberts MS(4), Kyle Jensen M(1), 
LaFleur J(2), Nelson RE(5).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Pediatrics,University of Utah,Salt Lake City,Utah.
(2)2Department of Pharmacotherapy,University of Utah,Salt Lake City,Utah.
(3)3Department of Medicine,University of Pittsburgh School of 
Medicine,Pittsburgh,Pennsylvania.
(4)4Department of Health Policy and Management,University of Pittsburgh Graduate 
School of Public Health,Pittsburgh,Pennsylvania.
(5)5Department of Internal Medicine,University of Utah,Salt Lake City,Utah.

OBJECTIVE: Clostridium difficile infection (CDI) places a high burden on the US 
healthcare system. Recurrent CDI (RCDI) occurs frequently. Recently proposed 
guidelines from the American College of Gastroenterology (ACG) and the American 
Gastroenterology Association (AGA) include fecal microbiota transplantation 
(FMT) as a therapeutic option for RCDI. The purpose of this study was to 
estimate the cost-effectiveness of FMT compared with vancomycin for the 
treatment of RCDI in adults, specifically following guidelines proposed by the 
ACG and AGA.
DESIGN: We constructed a decision-analytic computer simulation using inputs from 
the published literature to compare the standard approach using tapered 
vancomycin to FMT for RCDI from the third-party payer perspective. Our 
effectiveness measure was quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Because simulated 
patients were followed for 90 days, discounting was not necessary. One-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: Base-case analysis showed that FMT was less costly ($1,669 vs $3,788) 
and more effective (0.242 QALYs vs 0.235 QALYs) than vancomycin for RCDI. 
One-way sensitivity analyses showed that FMT was the dominant strategy (both 
less expensive and more effective) if cure rates for FMT and vancomycin were 
≥70% and <91%, respectively, and if the cost of FMT was <$3,206. Probabilistic 
sensitivity analysis, varying all parameters simultaneously, showed that FMT was 
the dominant strategy over 10, 000 second-order Monte Carlo simulations.
CONCLUSIONS: Our results suggest that FMT may be a cost-saving intervention in 
managing RCDI. Implementation of FMT for RCDI may help decrease the economic 
burden to the healthcare system.

DOI: 10.1017/ice.2014.80
PMID: 25782899 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


20. J Pediatr Surg. 2015 May;50(5):765-70. doi: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2015.02.033.
Epub  2015 Feb 20.

The burden of waiting: DALYs accrued from delayed access to pediatric surgery in 
Kenya and Canada.

Poenaru D(1), Pemberton J(2), Cameron BH(3).

Author information:
(1)McMaster Pediatric Surgery Research Collaborative, Department of Surgery, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada L8S 4K1; BethanyKids at Myung 
Sung Christian Medical Center, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia. Electronic address: 
dpoenaru@gmail.com.
(2)McMaster Pediatric Surgery Research Collaborative, Department of Surgery, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada L8S 4K1; Department of Clinical 
Epidemiology and Biostatistics, McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada 
L8S 4K1.
(3)McMaster Pediatric Surgery Research Collaborative, Department of Surgery, 
McMaster University, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada L8S 4K1; McMaster Children's 
Hospital, Hamilton Health Sciences, Hamilton, Ontario, Canada L8N 3Z5.

BACKGROUND: Disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) have become the standard 
metric for estimating burden of disease (BoD), but have not yet been applied to 
delayed access to surgical procedures. This study estimates the DALYs accrued 
from delayed access to surgical care in two pediatric surgical units in Kenya 
and Canada.
METHODS: Records of operations for 13 congenital health states in a Kenyan and a 
Canadian hospital were prospectively collected for 2012. DALYs caused by delayed 
presentation were estimated using disability weights and ideal and actual age at 
surgery.
RESULTS: 1208 first-time procedures in general surgery, neurosurgery, plastic 
surgery, and urology were included. Delays were longest in general surgery and 
longer in Kenya than in Canada in all specialties. The longest delays in Kenya 
were for orchidopexy (72 months) and anorectoplasty (PSARP) (74 months), and in 
Canada for orchidopexy (40 months). Corresponding total delayed BoD was highest 
in general surgery and neurosurgery and higher again in Kenya than in Canada 
(484 cf. 84 DALYs).
CONCLUSIONS: Estimating BoD resulting from delayed surgery is feasible and 
reflects both late presentation and limited access to care. Further exploration 
of these factors can make delayed DALYs a useful measure of health care coverage 
and waitlist prioritization.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpedsurg.2015.02.033
PMID: 25783371 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


21. J Endocrinol Invest. 2015 Jul;38(7):717-23. doi: 10.1007/s40618-015-0242-6.
Epub  2015 Mar 18.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of two therapeutic schemes in the treatment of 
acromegaly: a retrospective study of 168 cases.

Duan L(1), Huang M(2), Yan H(3), Zhang Y(4), Gu F(5).

Author information:
(1)Key Laboratory of Endocrinology, Ministry of Health, Department of 
Endocrinology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Peking Union Medical 
College and Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 100730, Beijing, China.
(2)The Cardiology Department, Nanfang Hospital, 510515, Guangzhou, China.
(3)Orthopedic Department, The Third Affiliated Hospital of Southern Medical 
University, 510630, Guangzhou, China.
(4)Department of National Health Accounts and Policy Studies, China National 
Health Development Research Center, 100191, Beijing, China.
(5)Key Laboratory of Endocrinology, Ministry of Health, Department of 
Endocrinology, Peking Union Medical College Hospital, Peking Union Medical 
College and Chinese Academy of Medical Sciences, 100730, Beijing, China. 
shisimedsci@163.com.

PURPOSE: This study aimed to estimate the cost effectiveness of two therapeutic 
schemes, including preoperative medical therapy and surgery as primary therapy.
METHODS: A total of 168 acromegaly cases were retrospectively investigated for a 
comparative evaluation of surgery and preoperative medical therapy. A Markov 
model was developed to simulate treatment cost-effectiveness and progression of 
acromegaly.
RESULTS: Overall effectiveness of preoperative medical therapy was significantly 
higher than surgery in acromegalic patients with macroadenoma. In addition, life 
expectancy, and cost per life-year gained were slightly higher in the 
preoperative medical therapy group than in the initial surgery group when 
patients received surgery as a secondary treatment. Interestingly, preoperative 
medical therapy achieved a significant increase in life expectancy and reduced 
cost for patients who received long-term medical therapy as secondary treatment.
CONCLUSIONS: In acromegalic patients with macroadenoma, the cost-effectiveness 
analysis revealed more satisfactory outcomes in preoperative therapy, compared 
with primary surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s40618-015-0242-6
PMID: 25783618 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


22. Psychol Health Med. 2016;21(1):102-12. doi: 10.1080/13548506.2015.1020317.
Epub  2015 Mar 18.

Coping styles in adults with cystic fibrosis: implications for emotional and 
social quality of life.

Mc Hugh R(1), Mc Feeters D(1), Boyda D(1), O'Neill S(1).

Author information:
(1)a School of Psychology, Faculty of Health and Life Sciences , Ulster 
University, Magee Campus , Northern Ireland, Londonderry, Co. Derry , BT48 7JL , 
United Kingdom.

As life expectancy increases, interest has grown surrounding the factors that 
may influence quality of life (QOL) for people with cystic fibrosis (CF). The 
aim of the current study was to examine which specific coping styles were 
positively or negatively associated with social and emotional QOL in a CF 
sample. One hundred and twenty-two respondents aged 18 and over were recruited 
through an online support group. Respondents completed the 'CF 
Questionnaire-Revised (CFQ-R)' and the 'Brief COPE'. The CFQ-R is a 
disease-specific instrument designed to measure the impact of CF on nine QOL 
domains and the Brief COPE is a 28 item questionnaire which assesses 14 coping 
scales. A multivariate regression model revealed that higher substance abuse and 
disengagement was associated with lower emotional QOL whereas greater use of 
religion, instrumental coping and acceptance was positively associated with 
emotional QOL. Active coping was linked to better social QOL and a negative 
association was reported between distraction coping with both emotional and 
social domains. Given the burden of CF, ascertaining which factors enhance or 
diminish emotion and social well-being is now an integral component of QOL 
research. The current findings may therefore have value in informing clinical 
interventions which aim to cater for the psychological needs of individuals with 
CF.

DOI: 10.1080/13548506.2015.1020317
PMID: 25783850 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


23. J Biol Chem. 2015 Apr 24;290(17):11130-43. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M114.622852. Epub
 2015 Mar 16.

Structural Basis for Action of the External Chaperone for a Propeptide-deficient 
Serine Protease from Aeromonas sobria.

Kobayashi H(1), Yoshida T(2), Miyakawa T(3), Tashiro M(4), Okamoto K(5), 
Yamanaka H(1), Tanokura M(3), Tsuge H(6).

Author information:
(1)From the Laboratory of Molecular Microbiological Science, Faculty of 
Pharmaceutical Sciences, Hiroshima International University, Kure, Hiroshima 
737-0112, Japan.
(2)the Department of Bioresource and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Life 
Sciences, Kyoto Sangyo University, Kamigamo-Motoyama, Kyoto 603-8555, Japan.
(3)the Department of Applied Biological Chemistry, Graduate School of 
Agricultural and Life Sciences, University of Tokyo, 1-1-1 Yayoi, Bunkyo-ku, 
Tokyo 113-8657, Japan.
(4)the Department of Chemistry, College of Science and Technology, Meisei 
University, Hodokubo, Hino, Tokyo 191-0042, Japan, and.
(5)the Department of Pharmacogenetics, Graduate School of Medicine, Dentistry 
and Pharmaceutical Sciences, Okayama University, Okayama 700-8530, Japan.
(6)the Department of Bioresource and Environmental Sciences, Faculty of Life 
Sciences, Kyoto Sangyo University, Kamigamo-Motoyama, Kyoto 603-8555, Japan, 
tsuge@cc.kyoto-su.ac.jp.

Subtilisin-like proteases are broadly expressed in organisms ranging from 
bacteria to mammals. During maturation of these enzymes, N-terminal propeptides 
function as intramolecular chaperones, assisting the folding of their catalytic 
domains. However, we have identified an exceptional case, the serine protease 
from Aeromonas sobria (ASP), that lacks a propeptide. Instead, ORF2, a protein 
encoded just downstream of asp, appears essential for proper ASP folding. The 
mechanism by which ORF2 functions remains an open question, because it shares no 
sequence homology with any known intramolecular propeptide or other protein. 
Here we report the crystal structure of the ORF2-ASP complex and the solution 
structure of free ORF2. ORF2 consists of three regions: an N-terminal extension, 
a central body, and a C-terminal tail. Together, the structure of the central 
body and the C-terminal tail is similar to that of the intramolecular 
propeptide. The N-terminal extension, which is not seen in other subtilisin-like 
enzymes, is intrinsically disordered but forms some degree of secondary 
structure upon binding ASP. We also show that C-terminal (ΔC1 and ΔC5) or 
N-terminal (ΔN43 and ΔN64) deletion eliminates the ability of ORF2 to function 
as a chaperone. Characterization of the maturation of ASP with ORF2 showed that 
folding occurs in the periplasmic space and is followed by translocation into 
extracellular space and dissociation from ORF2, generating active ASP. Finally, 
a PSI-BLAST search revealed that operons encoding subtilases and their external 
chaperones are widely distributed among Gram-negative bacteria, suggesting that 
ASP and its homologs form a novel family of subtilases having an external 
chaperone.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M114.622852
PMCID: PMC4409271
PMID: 25784551 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


24. Insect Biochem Mol Biol. 2015 May;60:39-46. doi: 10.1016/j.ibmb.2015.03.002. 
Epub 2015 Mar 14.

A gustatory receptor tuned to D-fructose in antennal sensilla chaetica of 
Helicoverpa armigera.

Jiang XJ(1), Ning C(2), Guo H(2), Jia YY(3), Huang LQ(2), Qu MJ(4), Wang CZ(5).

Author information:
(1)State Key Laboratory of Integrated Management of Pest Insects and Rodents, 
Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China; Shandong 
Peanut Research Institute, Qingdao, China.
(2)State Key Laboratory of Integrated Management of Pest Insects and Rodents, 
Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China.
(3)State Key Laboratory of Integrated Management of Pest Insects and Rodents, 
Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China; School of 
Life Sciences, Anhui University, Hefei, China.
(4)Shandong Peanut Research Institute, Qingdao, China.
(5)State Key Laboratory of Integrated Management of Pest Insects and Rodents, 
Institute of Zoology, Chinese Academy of Sciences, Beijing, China. Electronic 
address: czwang@ioz.ac.cn.

Insect gustatory systems play important roles in food selection and feeding 
behaviors. In spite of the enormous progress in understanding gustation in 
Drosophila, for other insects one of the key elements in gustatory signaling, 
the gustatory receptor (GR), is still elusive. In this study, we report that 
fructose elicits behavioral and physiological responses in Helicoverpa armigera 
(Harm) to fructose and identify the gustatory receptor for this sugar. Using the 
proboscis extension reflex (PER) assays we found that females respond to 
fructose following stimulation of the distal part of the antenna, where we have 
identified contact chemosensilla tuned to fructose in tip recording experiments. 
We isolated three full-length cDNAs encoding candidate HarmGRs based on 
comparison with orthologous GR sequences in Heliothis virescens and functionally 
characterized the responses of HarmGR4 to 15 chemicals when this receptor was 
expressed in Xenopus oocytes with two-electrode voltage-clamp recording. Among 
the tastants tested, the oocytes dose-dependently responded only to D-fructose 
(EC50 = 0.045 M). By combining behavioral, electrophysiological and molecular 
approaches, these results provide basic knowledge for further research on the 
molecular mechanisms of gustatory reception.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ibmb.2015.03.002
PMID: 25784630 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


25. Med Decis Making. 2015 Apr;35(3):351-60. doi: 10.1177/0272989X15575285.

Use of Bayesian Markov chain Monte Carlo methods to estimate EQ-5D utility 
scores from EORTC QLQ data in myeloma for use in cost-effectiveness analysis.

Kharroubi SA(1), Edlin R(2), Meads D(3), Browne C(3), Brown J(4), McCabe C(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Mathematics, University of York, York, UK (SAK)
(2)School of Population Health, University of Auckland, New Zealand (RE)
(3)Academic Unit of Health Economics, University of Leeds, Leeds, UK (DM, CB)
(4)University of Leeds Faculty of Medicine and Health, Leeds, UK (JB)
(5)Department of Emergency Medicine, Faculty of Medicine and Dentistry, 
University of Alberta, Edmonton, AB, Canada (CM)

BACKGROUND: Patient-reported outcome measures are an important component of the 
evidence for health technology appraisal. Their incorporation into 
cost-effectiveness analyses (CEAs) requires conversion of descriptive 
information into utilities. This can be done by using bespoke utility 
algorithms. Otherwise, investigators will often estimate indirect utility models 
for the patient-reported outcome measures using off-the-shelf utility data such 
as the EQ-5D or SF-6D. Numerous modeling strategies are reported; however, to 
date, there has been limited utilization of Bayesian methods in this context. In 
this article, we examine the relative advantage of the Bayesian methods in 
relation to dealing with missing data, relaxing the assumption of equal 
variances and characterizing the uncertainty in the model predictions.
METHODS: Data from a large myeloma trial were used to examine the relationship 
between scores in each of the 19 domains of the European Organisation for 
Research and Treatment of Cancer (EORTC) QLQ-C30/QLQ-MY20 and the EQ-5D utility. 
Data from 1839 patients were divided 75%/25% between derivation and validation 
sets. A conventional ordinary least squares model assuming equal variance and a 
Bayesian model allowing unequal variance were estimated on complete cases. Two 
further models were estimated using conventional and Bayesian multiple 
imputation, respectively, using the full data set. Models were compared in terms 
of data fit, accuracy in model prediction, and characterization of uncertainty 
in model predictions.
CONCLUSIONS: Mean EQ-5D utility weights can be estimated from the EORTC 
QLQ-C30/QLQ-MY20 for use in CEAs. Frequentist and Bayesian methods produced 
effectively identical models. However, the Bayesian models provide distributions 
describing the uncertainty surrounding the estimated utility values and are thus 
more suited informing analyses for probabilistic CEAs.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0272989X15575285
PMID: 25784746 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


26. Clin Ophthalmol. 2015 Mar 3;9:423-7. doi: 10.2147/OPTH.S79754. eCollection
2015.

Ocular myiasis caused by Chrysomya bezziana - a case report.

Nene AS(1), Mishra A(1), Dhand P(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Assam Medical College and Hospital, Dibrugarh, 
Assam, India.

Ophthalmomyiasis can have variable presentation depending on the type of fly, 
structures involved, and level of penetration. A 42-year-old female presented 
with extensive myiasis of the right eye. A lesion of 3×2 cm was noted at the 
medial canthus and was infested with maggots. The larvae were removed 
meticulously and the wound debrided. The larva isolated was that of Chrysomya 
bezziana (Old World screwworm). Computed tomography (CT) scan was normal. The 
wound was dressed regularly and healed by secondary intention. Ocular myiasis is 
a rare disease that can lead to life threatening consequences, such as 
intracranial extension. Prompt management with debridement and radical 
antibiotic therapy is essential.

DOI: 10.2147/OPTH.S79754
PMCID: PMC4356694
PMID: 25784787


27. Int J Clin Exp Med. 2015 Jan 15;8(1):27-36. eCollection 2015.

Total hip arthroplasty: areview of advances, advantages and limitations.

Liu XW(1), Zi Y(2), Xiang LB(1), Wang Y(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Orthopedics, General Hospital of Shenyang Military Area Command 
of Chinese PLA, Rescue Center of Severe Wound and Trauma of Chinese PLA Shenyang 
110016, Liaoning, China.
(2)Department of Emergency, 463rd Hospital of Chinese PLA Shenyang 110042, 
Liaoning, China.

The therapeutic outcomes of Osteoarthritis (OA) has been unsatisfactory and 
often surgeries such as total hip arthroplasty (THA) is required. THA is an 
effective treatment for patients with end-stage arthritic hip conditions. 
Cemented THA has been the treatment of choice for elderly patients with OA. An 
improvement in Timed "Up and Go" (TUG) before surgery might contribute to a 
decrease in the occurrence of DVT after THA, though post-thrombotic syndrome 
(PTS), a chronic condition in the lower extremity does not appear to be a major 
complication after DVT in patients undergoing THA. For OA, four domains to be 
evaluated: pain, physical function, joint imaging, and patient global 
assessment. Thus, THA can be cost saving or, at least cost- effective in 
improving quality-adjusted life expectancy. The purpose of this review is to 
discuss the recent advances as well as advantages and limitations of THA.

PMCID: PMC4358426
PMID: 25784971


28. Spine (Phila Pa 1976). 2015 Jun 1;40(11):E618-26. doi: 
10.1097/BRS.0000000000000885.

Has a Mono- or Bisegmental Lumbar Spinal Fusion Surgery an Influence on 
Self-Assessed Quality of Life, Trunk Range of Motion, and Gait Performance?

Stief F(1), Meurer A, Wienand J, Rauschmann M, Rickert M.

Author information:
(1)From the Orthopedic University Hospital Friedrichsheim gGmbH, Frankfurt/Main, 
Germany.

STUDY DESIGN: This investigation prospectively compared self-assessed quality of 
life and biomechanical measures of physical function before and after spinal 
fusion surgery in 26 adult patients with symptomatic lumbar degenerative 
disease.
OBJECTIVE: The objective was to demonstrate that (1) due to a reduction of low 
back pain, quality of life as well as gait parameters would improve after a 
spinal fusion surgery and (2) gait performance is more similar to that observed 
in healthy controls at the same age, whereas trunk range of motion remains 
unchanged after surgery.
SUMMARY OF BACKGROUND DATA: Current outcome evaluations of spinal fusion surgery 
are based on radiological changes and self-report questionnaires. However, these 
traditional measures do not sufficiently assess the functionality.
METHODS: Twenty-six patients with a mean age of 59.3 (SD: 10.1) years and 20 
healthy subjects at the same age were evaluated. Before and approximately 6 
months after a mono- or bisegmental spinal fusion surgery, patients completed 
self-report questionnaires and biomechanical assessments of gait analysis and 
trunk range of motion in the 3 principal planes of the body.
RESULTS: Results indicated an improvement in quality of life as well as an 
increased pain-free walking distance, walking speed, step length, and maximum 
hip extension during the stance phase of gait. Anterior pelvis and thorax tilt 
were significantly reduced after the surgery without significant differences 
compared with the control group. Regarding the trunk range of motion, we 
observed a decrease in maximum forward flexion and an increase in the 
fingertip-floor distance after surgery.
CONCLUSION: The study results show that lumbar spinal fusion is a useful 
procedure to improve patient's quality of life and gait performance. Although we 
performed only mono- and 2-level fusions, the sagittal alignment of the pelvis 
and thorax during walking was normalized. Clinical gait analysis contributes to 
the advancement of our knowledge regarding the functional changes after a spinal 
fusion surgery.
LEVEL OF EVIDENCE: 2.

DOI: 10.1097/BRS.0000000000000885
PMID: 25785956 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


29. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 18;10(3):e0120339. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120339. 
eCollection 2015.

Mechanical properties of the compass depressors of the sea-urchin Paracentrotus 
lividus (Echinodermata, Echinoidea) and the effects of enzymes, 
neurotransmitters and synthetic tensilin-like protein.

Wilkie IC(1), Fassini D(2), Cullorà E(2), Barbaglio A(2), Tricarico S(2), Sugni 
M(2), Del Giacco L(2), Candia Carnevali MD(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Life Sciences, Glasgow Caledonian University, Glasgow, 
Scotland, United Kingdom.
(2)Dipartimento di Bioscienze, Università degli Studi di Milano, Milano, Italy.

The compass depressors (CDs) of the sea-urchin lantern are ligaments consisting 
mainly of discontinuous collagen fibrils associated with a small population of 
myocytes. They are mutable collagenous structures, which can change their 
mechanical properties rapidly and reversibly under nervous control. The aims of 
this investigation were to characterise the baseline (i.e. unmanipulated) static 
mechanical properties of the CDs of Paracentrotus lividus by means of creep 
tests and incremental force-extension tests, and to determine the effects on 
their mechanical behaviour of a range of agents. Under constant load the CDs 
exhibited a three-phase creep curve, the mean coefficient of viscosity being 
561±365 MPa.s. The stress-strain curve showed toe, linear and yield regions; the 
mean strain at the toe-linear inflection was 0.86±0.61; the mean Young's modulus 
was 18.62±10.30 MPa; and the mean tensile strength was 8.14±5.73 MPa. 
Hyaluronidase from Streptomyces hyalurolyticus had no effect on creep behaviour, 
whilst chondroitinase ABC prolonged primary creep but had no effect on secondary 
creep or on any force-extension parameters; it thus appears that neither 
hyaluronic acid nor sulphated glycosaminoglycans have an interfibrillar load 
transfer function in the CD. Acetylcholine, the muscarinic agonists arecoline 
and methacholine, and the nicotinic agonists nicotine and 
1-[1-(3,4-dimethyl-phenyl)-ethyl]-piperazine produced an abrupt increase in CD 
viscosity; the CDs were not differentially sensitive to muscarinic or nicotinic 
agonists. CDs showed either no, or no consistent, response to adrenaline, 
L-glutamic acid, 5-hydroxytryptamine and γ-aminobutyric acid. Synthetic echinoid 
tensilin-like protein had a weak and inconsistent stiffening effect, indicating 
that, in contrast to holothurian tensilins, the echinoid molecule may not be 
involved in the regulation of collagenous tissue tensility. We compare in detail 
the mechanical behaviour of the CD with that of mammalian tendon and highlight 
its potential as a model system for investigating poorly understood aspects of 
the ontogeny and phylogeny of vertebrate collagenous tissues.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120339
PMCID: PMC4365025
PMID: 25786033 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


30. Biomolecules. 2015 Mar 16;5(1):194-222. doi: 10.3390/biom5010194.

Advanced glycation end products and oxidative stress in type 2 diabetes 
mellitus.

Nowotny K(1), Jung T(2), Höhn A(3), Weber D(4), Grune T(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Molecular Toxicology, German Institute of Human Nutrition 
Potsdam-Rehbruecke, Arthur-Scheunert-Allee 114-116, 14558 Nuthetal, Germany. 
Kerstin.Nowotny@dife.de.
(2)Department of Molecular Toxicology, German Institute of Human Nutrition 
Potsdam-Rehbruecke, Arthur-Scheunert-Allee 114-116, 14558 Nuthetal, Germany. 
Tobias.Jung@dife.de.
(3)Department of Molecular Toxicology, German Institute of Human Nutrition 
Potsdam-Rehbruecke, Arthur-Scheunert-Allee 114-116, 14558 Nuthetal, Germany. 
Annika.Hoehn@dife.de.
(4)Department of Molecular Toxicology, German Institute of Human Nutrition 
Potsdam-Rehbruecke, Arthur-Scheunert-Allee 114-116, 14558 Nuthetal, Germany. 
Daniela.Weber@dife.de.
(5)Department of Molecular Toxicology, German Institute of Human Nutrition 
Potsdam-Rehbruecke, Arthur-Scheunert-Allee 114-116, 14558 Nuthetal, Germany. 
scientific.director@dife.de.

Type 2 diabetes mellitus (T2DM) is a very complex and multifactorial metabolic 
disease characterized by insulin resistance and β cell failure leading to 
elevated blood glucose levels. Hyperglycemia is suggested to be the main cause 
of diabetic complications, which not only decrease life quality and expectancy, 
but are also becoming a problem regarding the financial burden for health care 
systems. Therefore, and to counteract the continually increasing prevalence of 
diabetes, understanding the pathogenesis, the main risk factors, and the 
underlying molecular mechanisms may establish a basis for prevention and 
therapy. In this regard, research was performed revealing further evidence that 
oxidative stress has an important role in hyperglycemia-induced tissue injury as 
well as in early events relevant for the development of T2DM. The formation of 
advanced glycation end products (AGEs), a group of modified proteins and/or 
lipids with damaging potential, is one contributing factor. On the one hand it 
has been reported that AGEs increase reactive oxygen species formation and 
impair antioxidant systems, on the other hand the formation of some AGEs is 
induced per se under oxidative conditions. Thus, AGEs contribute at least partly 
to chronic stress conditions in diabetes. As AGEs are not only formed 
endogenously, but also derive from exogenous sources, i.e., food, they have been 
assumed as risk factors for T2DM. However, the role of AGEs in the pathogenesis 
of T2DM and diabetic complications-if they are causal or simply an effect-is 
only partly understood. This review will highlight the involvement of AGEs in 
the development and progression of T2DM and their role in diabetic 
complications.

DOI: 10.3390/biom5010194
PMCID: PMC4384119
PMID: 25786107 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


31. PLoS Negl Trop Dis. 2015 Mar 18;9(3):e0003547. doi: 
10.1371/journal.pntd.0003547. eCollection 2015 Mar.

Economic and disease burden of dengue in Mexico.

Undurraga EA(1), Betancourt-Cravioto M(2), Ramos-Castañeda J(3), Martínez-Vega 
R(4), Méndez-Galván J(5), Gubler DJ(6), Guzmán MG(7), Halstead SB(8), Harris 
E(9), Kuri-Morales P(10), Tapia-Conyer R(2), Shepard DS(1).

Author information:
(1)Schneider Institutes for Health Policy, Heller School, Brandeis University, 
Waltham, Massachusetts, United States of America.
(2)Carlos Slim Health Institute, Mexico City, Mexico.
(3)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, Mexico; Center for Tropical 
Diseases, University of Texas-Medical Branch, Galveston, Texas, United States of 
America.
(4)Instituto Nacional de Salud Pública, Cuernavaca, Mexico; Organización 
Latinoamericana para el Fomento de la Investigación en Salud, Bucaramanga, 
Colombia.
(5)Hospital Infantil de México Federico Gómez, Mexico City, Mexico.
(6)Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore.
(7)Pedro Kourí Tropical Medicine Institute, Havana, Cuba.
(8)Pediatric Dengue Vaccine Initiative, Rockville, Maryland, United States of 
America.
(9)University of California, Berkeley, Berkeley, California, United States of 
America.
(10)Ministry of Health, Mexico City, Mexico.

BACKGROUND: Dengue imposes a substantial economic and disease burden in most 
tropical and subtropical countries. Dengue incidence and severity have 
dramatically increased in Mexico during the past decades. Having objective and 
comparable estimates of the economic burden of dengue is essential to inform 
health policy, increase disease awareness, and assess the impact of dengue 
prevention and control technologies.
METHODS AND FINDINGS: We estimated the annual economic and disease burden of 
dengue in Mexico for the years 2010-2011. We merged multiple data sources, 
including a prospective cohort study; patient interviews and macro-costing from 
major hospitals; surveillance, budget, and health data from the Ministry of 
Health; WHO cost estimates; and available literature. We conducted a 
probabilistic sensitivity analysis using Monte Carlo simulations to derive 95% 
certainty levels (CL) for our estimates. Results suggest that Mexico had about 
139,000 (95%CL: 128,000-253,000) symptomatic and 119 (95%CL: 75-171) fatal 
dengue episodes annually on average (2010-2011), compared to an average of 
30,941 symptomatic and 59 fatal dengue episodes reported. The annual cost, 
including surveillance and vector control, was US$170 (95%CL: 151-292) million, 
or $1.56 (95%CL: 1.38-2.68) per capita, comparable to other countries in the 
region. Of this, $87 (95%CL: 87-209) million or $0.80 per capita (95%CL: 
0.62-1.12) corresponds to illness. Annual disease burden averaged 65 (95%CL: 
36-99) disability-adjusted life years (DALYs) per million population. Inclusion 
of long-term sequelae, co-morbidities, impact on tourism, and health system 
disruption during outbreaks would further increase estimated economic and 
disease burden.
CONCLUSION: With this study, Mexico joins Panama, Puerto Rico, Nicaragua, and 
Thailand as the only countries or areas worldwide with comprehensive (illness 
and preventive) empirical estimates of dengue burden. Burden varies annually; 
during an outbreak, dengue burden may be significantly higher than that of the 
pre-vaccine level of rotavirus diarrhea. In sum, Mexico's potential economic 
benefits from dengue control would be substantial.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pntd.0003547
PMCID: PMC4364886
PMID: 25786225 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: I have read the journal’s policy and the authors 
of this manuscript have the following competing interests: This study was 
partially funded by a research agreement from Sanofi Pasteur to Brandeis 
University. This does not alter our adherence to all PLOS NTDs policies on 
sharing data and materials.


32. Ugeskr Laeger. 2015 Mar 16;177(12):V09140492.

[Teminal care in a nursing home].

[Article in Danish]

Andersen JH(1), Hansen J, Rosholm JU.

Author information:
(1)Geriatrisk Afdeling, Odense Universitetshospital, Sdr. Boulevard 29, 5000 
Odense C. jens-ulrik.rosholm@rsyd.dk.

This article focuses on patients with limited life expectancy who no longer 
benefit from preventive medication but not yet qualify for palliative care - a 
time frame often referred to as End-of-Life (EOL). The purpose of this article 
is to identify and assess international guidelines for prescribing in EOL. No 
relevant clinical trials were available, but we found advice mainly based on 
logic assumptions and thoughts. Optimal prescribing for EOL patients remains 
mostly unexplored. Our study revealed two pivotal questions: How do we identify 
EOL patients, and what specific drugs should be removed?

PMID: 25786837 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


33. Int Heart J. 2015;56 Suppl:S1-3. doi: 10.1536/ihj.15-064.

Pulmonary arterial hypertension associated with congenital heart disease. 
Personal perspectives.

Nakanishi T(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatric Cardiology, Heart Institute, Tokyo Women's Medical 
University.

The management of patients with congenital heart disease (CHD) and pulmonary 
arterial hypertension (PAH) has changed dramatically with the development of 
targeted therapy with selective pulmonary vasodilators. The number of adult 
Japanese patients with PAH associated with CHD is increasing. It is important to 
develop evidence-based guidelines for the management of these patients, and to 
achieve this, a register of adult Japanese patients with PAH associated with CHD 
should be established. At the World Symposium in Nice, France, in 2013, the 
consensus was reached that patients with a pulmonary resistance of < 4 Wood 
Units (WU)·m(2) have operable disease, and patients with a pulmonary resistance 
of > 8 WU·m(2) have inoperable disease. However, these criteria are 
conservative. Some patients with a pulmonary resistance of > 8 WU·m(2) and a 
good response to a pulmonary vasodilator test have operable disease and a 
favorable clinical course long after repair of CHD. The criteria determining 
operability in patients with PAH associated with CHD in the era of pulmonary 
vasodilators should be established using data obtained from patient registers 
and/or multicenter studies. The optimal management of Eisenmenger syndrome 
should also be established using data obtained from patient registers. 
Prospective studies should be conducted to determine the life expectancy of 
patients with Eisenmenger syndrome in the era of targeted therapy. A relatively 
mild increase in pulmonary resistance may result in failure of a Fontan 
circulation. The effects of pulmonary vasodilators on the long-term prognosis of 
patients who have undergone the Fontan operation are still unclear.

DOI: 10.1536/ihj.15-064
PMID: 25787791 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


34. Biol Pharm Bull. 2015;38(6):827-35. doi: 10.1248/bpb.b14-00518. Epub 2015 Mar
 17.

Survivin and PSMA Loaded Dendritic Cell Vaccine for the Treatment of Prostate 
Cancer.

Xi HB(1), Wang GX, Fu B, Liu WP, Li Y.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, The First Affiliated Hospital of Nanchang University.

Dendritic cell (DC)-based vaccines are a promising therapeutic modality for 
cancer. Results from recent trials and approval of the first DC vaccine by the 
U.S. Food and Drugs Administration for prostate cancer have paved the way for 
DC-based vaccines. A total of 21 hormone refractory prostate cancer (HRPC) 
patients with a life expectancy >3 months were randomised into two groups. DC 
loaded with recombinant Prostate Specific Membrane Antigen (rPSMA) and 
recombinant Survivin (rSurvivin) peptides was administered as an subcutaneous 
(s.c.) injection (5×10(6) cells). Docetaxel (75 mg/m(2) intravenous (i.v.)) and 
prednisone (5 mg, bis in die (b.i.d.)) served as control. Clinical and 
immunological responses were evaluated. Primary endpoints were safety and 
feasibility; secondary endpoint was overall survival. Responses were evaluated 
on day 15, day 30, day 60, and day 90. DC vaccination was well tolerated with no 
signs of grade 2 toxicity. DC vaccination induced delayed-type hypersensitivity 
reactivity and an immune response in all patients. Objective Response Rate (ORR) 
by Response Evaluation Criteria in Solid Tumours (RECIST) was 72.7% (8/11) 
versus 45.4 (5/11) in the docetaxel arm and immune related response criteria 
(irRC) was 54.5% (6/11) compared with 27.2% (3/11) in the control arm. The DC 
arm showed stable disease (SD) in 6 patients, progressive disease (PD) in 3 
patients, and partial remission (PR) in two patients compared to SD in 5 
patients, PD in 6 patients, and PR in none in the docetaxel arm. There was a 
cellular response, disease stabilization, no adverse events, and partial 
remission with the rPSMA and rSurvivin primed DC vaccine.

DOI: 10.1248/bpb.b14-00518
PMID: 25787895 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


35. Med Oncol. 2015 Apr;32(4):121. doi: 10.1007/s12032-015-0580-4. Epub 2015 Mar
19.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of gemcitabine, S-1 and gemcitabine plus S-1 for 
treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer based on GEST study.

Zhou J(1), Zhao R, Wen F, Zhang P, Tang R, Du Z, He X, Zhang J, Li Q.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medical Oncology, Cancer Center, State Key Laboratory of 
Biotherapy, West China Hospital, Sichuan University, Chengdu, People's Republic 
of China.

Gemcitabine (GEM) alone, S-1 alone and gemcitabine plus S-1 (GS) have shown a 
marginal clinical benefit for the treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer. 
However, there is no clearly defined optimal cost-effectiveness treatment. The 
objective of this study was to assess the cost-effectiveness of GEM alone, S-1 
alone and GS for the treatment of advanced pancreatic cancer based on GEST study 
for public payers. A decision model compared GEM alone, S-1 alone and GS. 
Primary base case data were identified using the GEST study and the literatures. 
Costs were estimated from West China Hospital, Sichuan University, China, and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated. Survival benefits 
were reported in quality-adjusted life-months (QALMs). Sensitive analyses were 
performed by varying potentially modifiable parameters of the model. The base 
case analysis showed that the GEM cost $21,912 and yielded survival of 6.93 
QALMs, S-1 cost $19,371 and yielded survival of 7.90 QALMs and GS cost $22,943 
and yielded survival of 7.46 QALMs in the entire treatment. The one-way 
sensitivity analyses showed that the ICER of S-1 was driven mostly by the S-1 
group utility score of stable state compared with GEM, and the GEM group utility 
score of progressed state played a key role on the ICER of GS compared with GEM. 
S-1 represents an attractive cost-effective treatment for advanced pancreatic 
cancer, given the favorable cost per QALM and improvement in clinical efficacy, 
especially the limited available treatment options.

DOI: 10.1007/s12032-015-0580-4
PMID: 25788034 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


36. J Med Econ. 2015;18(8):565-72. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1031794. Epub 2015
Apr  10.

