
126. Bone Joint J. 2015 Apr;97-B(4):449-57. doi: 10.1302/0301-620X.97B4.34242.

Cost effectiveness of total hip arthroplasty in osteoarthritis: comparison of 
devices with differing bearing surfaces and modes of fixation.

Pulikottil-Jacob R(1), Connock M(1), Kandala NB(1), Mistry H(1), Grove A(1), 
Freeman K(1), Costa M(1), Sutcliffe P(1), Clarke A(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Warwick, Coventry CV4 7AL, UK.

Many different designs of total hip arthroplasty (THA) with varying performance 
and cost are available. The identification of those which are the most 
cost-effective could allow significant cost-savings. We used an established 
Markov model to examine the cost effectiveness of five frequently used 
categories of THA which differed according to bearing surface and mode of 
fixation, using data from the National Joint Registry for England and Wales. 
Kaplan-Meier analyses of rates of revision for men and women were modelled with 
parametric distributions. Costs of devices were provided by the NHS Supply Chain 
and associated costs were taken from existing studies. Lifetime costs, lifetime 
quality-adjusted-life-years (QALYs) and the probability of a device being cost 
effective at a willingness to pay £20 000/QALY were included in the models. The 
differences in QALYs between different categories of implant were extremely 
small (< 0.0039 QALYs for men or women over the patient's lifetime) and 
differences in cost were also marginal (£2500 to £3000 in the same time period). 
As a result, the probability of any particular device being the most cost 
effective was very sensitive to small, plausible changes in quality of life 
estimates and cost. Our results suggest that available evidence does not support 
recommending a particular device on cost effectiveness grounds alone. We would 
recommend that the choice of prosthesis should be determined by the rate of 
revision, local costs and the preferences of the surgeon and patient.

©2015 The British Editorial Society of Bone & Joint Surgery.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.97B4.34242
PMID: 25820881 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


127. Popul Res Policy Rev. 2014 Feb 1;33(1):81-96. doi:
10.1007/s11113-013-9312-7.

Does the Hispanic Paradox in U.S. Adult Mortality Extend to Disability?

Hayward MD(1), Hummer RA(2), Chiu CT(3), González-González C(4), Wong R(5).

Author information:
(1)Population Research Center and Department of Sociology, University of Texas 
at Austin, Austin, TX 78712, USA, mhayward@prc.utexas.edu.
(2)Population Research Center and Department of Sociology, University of Texas 
at Austin, Austin, TX 78712, USA.
(3)Duke-NUS Graduate Medical School, Singapore, Singapore.
(4)National Institute of Geriatrics, Mexico, Mexico.
(5)University of Texas Medical Branch, Galveston, TX, USA.

Studies consistently document a Hispanic paradox in U.S. adult mortality, 
whereby Hispanics have similar or lower mortality rates than non-Hispanic whites 
despite lower socioeconomic status. This study extends this line of inquiry to 
disability, especially among foreign-born Hispanics, since their advantaged 
mortality seemingly should be paired with health advantages more generally. We 
also assess whether the paradox extends to U.S.-born Hispanics to evaluate the 
effect of nativity. We calculate multistate life tables of life expectancy with 
disability to assess whether racial/ethnic and nativity differences in the 
length of disability-free life parallel differences in overall life expectancy. 
Our results document a Hispanic paradox in mortality for foreign-born and 
U.S.-born Hispanics. However, Hispanics' low mortality rates are not matched by 
low disability rates. Their disability rates are substantially higher than those 
of non-Hispanic whites and generally similar to those of non-Hispanic blacks. 
The result is a protracted period of disabled life expectancy for Hispanics, 
both foreign- and U.S.-born.

DOI: 10.1007/s11113-013-9312-7
PMCID: PMC4376250
PMID: 25821283


128. J Diabetes Res. 2015;2015:758564. doi: 10.1155/2015/758564. Epub 2015 Mar 2.

Use of Drosophila as an evaluation method reveals imp as a candidate gene for 
type 2 diabetes in rat locus Niddm22.

Kawasaki K(1), Yamada S(1), Ogata K(1), Saito Y(1), Takahama A(1), Yamada T(2), 
Matsumoto K(3), Kose H(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Natural Sciences, Department of Life Science, International 
Christian University, Mitaka, Tokyo 181-8585, Japan.
(2)Laboratory of Animal Genetics, Graduate School of Science and Technology, 
Niigata University, Niigata 950-2181, Japan.
(3)Department of Animal Medical Sciences, Faculty of Life Sciences, Kyoto Sangyo 
University, Kyoto 603-8555, Japan.

Type 2 diabetes (T2D) is one of the most common human diseases. QTL analysis of 
the diabetic Otsuka Long-Evans Tokushima Fatty (OLETF) rats has identified 
numerous hyperglycemic loci. However, molecular characterization and/or gene 
identification largely remains to be elucidated due mostly to the weak genetic 
variances contributed by each locus. Here we utilized Drosophila melanogaster as 
a secondary model organism for functional evaluation of the candidate gene. We 
demonstrate that the tissue specific knockdown of a homologue of igf2bp2 RNA 
binding protein leads to increased sugar levels similar to that found in the 
OLETF rat. In the mutant, the expression of two of the insulin-like peptides 
encoded in the fly genome, dilp2 and dilp3, were found to be downregulated. 
Consistent with previous reports of dilp mutants, the imp mutant flies exhibited 
an extension of life span; in contrast, starvation tolerance was reduced. These 
results further reinforce the possibility that imp is involved in sugar 
metabolism by modulating insulin expression.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/758564
PMCID: PMC4363715
PMID: 25821834 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


129. Sci Rep. 2015 Mar 30;5:9470. doi: 10.1038/srep09470.

Pyrosequencing reveals a shift in symbiotic bacteria populations across life 
stages of Bactrocera dorsalis.

Andongma AA(1), Wan L(1), Dong YC(1), Li P(2), Desneux N(3), White JA(4), Niu 
CY(1).

Author information:
(1)College of Plant Science &Technology, Huazhong Agricultural University, Wuhan 
430070, China.
(2)Pest Control Division, National Agricultural Technology Extension and Service 
Center, Ministry of Agriculture, Beijing 100125, China.
(3)French National Institute for Agricultural Research (INRA), UMR1355-ISA, 
06903 Sophia-Antipolis, France.
(4)Department of Entomology, University of Kentucky, Lexington, KY 40546-0091, 
USA.

Bactrocera dorsalis is one of the most economically important fruit flies around 
the world. In this study, 454 pyrosequencing was used to identify the bacteria 
associated with different developmental stages of B. dorsalis. At ≥ 97% 
nucleotide similarity, total reads could be assigned to 172 Operational 
Taxonomic Units belonging to six phyla. Proteobacteria dominated in immature 
stages while Firmicutes dominated in adult stages. The most abundant families 
were Enterococcaceae and Comamondaceae. The genus Comamonas was most abundant in 
pupae whereas completely absent in adults. Some identified species had low 
sequence similarity to reported species indicating the possibility of novel 
taxa. However, a majority sequence reads were similar to sequences previously 
identified to be associated with Bactrocera correcta, suggesting a 
characteristic microbial fauna for this insect genus. The type and abundance of 
different bacterial groups varied across the life stages of B. dorsalis. 
Selection pressure exerted by the host insect as a result of its habitat and 
diet choices could be the reason for the observed shift in the bacteria groups. 
These findings increase our understanding of the intricate symbiotic 
relationships between bacteria and B. dorsalis and provide clues to develop 
potential biocontrol techniques against this fruit fly.

DOI: 10.1038/srep09470
PMCID: PMC5380164
PMID: 25822599 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no competing financial 
interests.


130. Ugeskr Laeger. 2015 Mar 23;177(13):V10140556.

[Excess mortality of schizophrenia].

[Article in Danish]

Wernlund AG(1), Aagaard J.

Author information:
(1)Regionspsykiatrien Silkeborg, Region Midtjylland, Falkevej 5, 8600 Silkeborg. 
andreas.wernlund@ps.rm.dk.

Comment in
    Ugeskr Laeger. 2015 Apr 27;177(18):895-6.

Patients with schizophrenia have a diminished life expectancy of 15-20 years 
compared to the general population. Over the last decades excess mortality of 
suicide has decreased, whereas excess mortality of physical illness, especially 
cardiovascular disease has increased. Focus attends current somatic 
co-morbidity, side effects to medication and poor lifestyle. Further actions to 
prevent excess mortality of physical illness are needed.

PMID: 25822814 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


131. IEEE J Biomed Health Inform. 2016 Mar;20(2):521-6. doi: 
10.1109/JBHI.2015.2412656. Epub 2015 Mar 24.

Instrumental Assessment of Bradykinesia: A Comparison Between Motor Tasks.

Mentzel TQ, Mentzel CL, Mentzel SV, Lieverse R, Daanen HA, van Harten PN.

Bradykinesia, a common symptom in psychiatry, is characterized by reduced 
movement speed and amplitude. Monitoring for bradykinesia is important, as it 
has been associated with reductions in quality of life and medication 
compliance. Subtle forms of bradykinesia have been associated with treatment 
response in antipsychotic-naïve first episode patients. Therefore, accurate and 
reliable assessment is of clinical importance. Several mechanical and electronic 
instruments have been developed for this purpose. However, their content 
validity is limited. This study investigated which tasks, or combinations 
thereof, are most suitable for assessing bradykinesia instrumentally. Eleven 
motor tasks were assessed using inertial sensors. Their capability of 
distinguishing bradykinetic patients with schizophrenia ( n = 6) from healthy 
controls ( n = 5) was investigated. Seven tasks significantly discriminated 
patients from controls. The combination of tasks considered most feasible for 
the instrumental assessment of bradykinesia was the gait, pronation/supination, 
leg agility and flexion/extension of elbow tasks (effect size = 2.9).

DOI: 10.1109/JBHI.2015.2412656
PMID: 25823047 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


132. J Clin Oncol. 2015 May 1;33(13):1467-74. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2014.58.5729. Epub
 2015 Mar 30.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of routine surveillance imaging of patients with 
diffuse large B-cell lymphoma in first remission.

Huntington SF(1), Svoboda J(2), Doshi JA(2).

Author information:
(1)All authors: University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA. 
scott.huntington@uphs.upenn.edu.
(2)All authors: University of Pennsylvania, Philadelphia, PA.

Comment in
    J Clin Oncol. 2015 May 1;33(13):1427-9.

PURPOSE: Surveillance imaging of asymptomatic patients with diffuse large B-cell 
lymphoma (DLBCL) in first remission remains controversial. A decision-analytic 
Markov model was developed to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of follow-up 
strategies following first-line immunochemotherapy.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: Three strategies were compared in 55-year-old patient 
cohorts: routine clinical follow-up without serial imaging, routine follow-up 
with biannual computed tomography (CT) scans for 2 years, or routine follow-up 
with biannual [(18)F]-fluorodeoxyglucose positron emission tomography-computed 
tomography (PET/CT) for 2 years. The baseline model favored imaging-based 
strategies by associating asymptomatic imaging-detected relapses with improved 
clinical outcomes. Lifetime costs, quality-adjusted life years (QALYs), and 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated for each 
surveillance strategy.
RESULTS: Surveillance strategies utilizing 2 years of routine CT or PET/CT scans 
were associated with minimal survival benefit when compared with clinical 
follow-up without routine imaging (life-years gained: CT, 0.03 years; PET/CT, 
0.04 years). The benefit of imaging-based follow-up remained small after 
quality-of-life adjustments (CT, 0.020 QALYs; PET/CT, 0.025 QALYs). Costs 
associated with imaging-based surveillance strategies are considerable; ICERs 
for imaging strategies compared with clinical follow-up were $164,960/QALY (95% 
CI, $116,510 to $766,930/QALY) and $168,750/QALY (95% CI, $117,440 to 
853,550/QALY) for CT and PET/CT, respectively. Model conclusions were robust and 
remained stable on one-way and probabilistic sensitivity analyses.
CONCLUSION: Our cost-effectiveness analysis suggests surveillance imaging of 
asymptomatic DLBCL patients in remission offers little clinical benefit at 
substantial economic costs.

© 2015 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2014.58.5729
PMID: 25823735 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


133. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2015;16(6):2317-22. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.6.2317.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of cervical cancer screening strategies based on the 
Papanicolaou smear test in Korea.

Ko MJ(1), Kim J, Kim Y, Lee YJ, Hong SR, Lee JK.

Author information:
(1)Division for Healthcare Technology Assessment Research, National 
Evidence-based Healthcare Collaborating Agency, Seoul, Republic of Korea E-mail 
: jklee38@korea.ac.kr, jklee38@gmail.com.

BACKGROUND: Despite the increasing number of screening examinations performed 
for cervical cancer utilizing the Papanicolaou smear test (Pap test), few 
studies have examined whether this strategy is cost-effective in Korea.
OBJECTIVE: This study was conducted to evaluate the cost-effectiveness of 
cervical cancer screening strategies incorporating the Pap test based on age at 
the start and end of screening as well as screening interval.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: We designed four alternative screening strategies based 
on patient age when screening was started (20 or 30 years) and discontinued 
(lifetime, 79 years). Each strategy was assessed at screening intervals of 1, 2, 
3, or 5 years. A Markov model was developed to determine the cost-effectiveness 
of the 16 possible cervical cancer screening strategies, and this was evaluated 
from a societal perspective. The main outcome measures were average lifetime 
cost, incremental quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER).
RESULTS: Compared with various strategies comprising younger starting age, 
discontinuation age, and longer screening intervals, strategies employing annual 
screening for cervical cancer starting at a target age of 30 years and above 
were the most cost-effective, with an ICER of 21,012.98 dollars per QALY gained 
(with a Korean threshold of 30,000,000 KRW or US$27,272).
CONCLUSIONS: We found that annual screening for cervical cancer beginning at a 
target age of 30 years and above is most cost-effective screening strategy. 
Considering the potential economic advantages, more intense screening policies 
for cervical cancer might be favorable among countries with high rates of 
cervical cancer and relatively low screening costs.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.6.2317
PMID: 25824757 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


134. Drugs Aging. 2015 Apr;32(4):305-14. doi: 10.1007/s40266-015-0251-3.

Sedative-hypnotic medicines and falls in community-dwelling older adults: a 
cost-effectiveness (decision-tree) analysis from a US Medicare perspective.

Tannenbaum C(1), Diaby V, Singh D, Perreault S, Luc M, Vasiliadis HM.

Author information:
(1)Faculties of Medicine and Pharmacy, Université de Montréal, Montreal, QC, 
Canada, cara.tannenbaum@umontreal.ca.

BACKGROUND: Both the 2012 Beers list and the American Geriatric Society 
'Choosing Wisely' campaign suggest restraint in the use of sedative-hypnotics 
for the treatment of insomnia in older people. Sedative hypnotic agents continue 
to be widely prescribed even though their use in the elderly is associated with 
an increased risk of falls, fractures, and emergency hospitalizations.
OBJECTIVE: The aim of this study was to estimate the cost effectiveness of 
cognitive behavioral therapy (CBT) compared with sedative-hypnotics and no 
treatment for insomnia in the US Medicare population, adjusting for the risk of 
falls and related consequences.
METHODS: A model-based economic evaluation (decision tree) using the US Medicare 
perspective and a conservative annual temporal framework was conducted. 
Simulations were performed in a hypothetical cohort of Medicare beneficiaries 
suffering from insomnia. The main outcome measure was the incremental cost per 
quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained. Sensitivity analyses assessed the 
robustness of the base-case analysis.
RESULTS: On an annual basis, CBT showed a dominance (cost: US$19,442; QALYs: 
0.594) over sedative hypnotics (cost: US$32,452; QALYs: 0.552) and no treatment 
(cost: US$33,853; QALYs: 0.517). Assuming a willingness to pay of US$50,000, the 
net monetary benefit was positive for CBT (US$10,287) and negative for sedative 
hypnotics (-US$4,851) and no treatment (-US$7,993). CBT had a 95% chance of 
being the dominant strategy, with results most sensitive to an older adult's 
baseline risk of falling.
CONCLUSION: Failure to consider drug harms such as drug-induced falls and 
hospitalization represents a growing public health concern, significantly 
underestimating the cost of sedative-hypnotic therapy and loss in quality of 
life for the elderly. Public payers should reconsider reimbursement of 
sedative-hypnotic drugs as first-line treatment for insomnia in older adults.

DOI: 10.1007/s40266-015-0251-3
PMID: 25825121 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


135. J Biol Chem. 2015 May 15;290(20):12753-64. doi: 10.1074/jbc.M115.644534.
Epub  2015 Mar 30.

Reduced Ssy1-Ptr3-Ssy5 (SPS) signaling extends replicative life span by 
enhancing NAD+ homeostasis in Saccharomyces cerevisiae.

Tsang F(1), James C(1), Kato M(1), Myers V(1), Ilyas I(1), Tsang M(1), Lin 
SJ(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, College of 
Biological Sciences, University of California, Davis, California 95616.
(2)From the Department of Microbiology and Molecular Genetics, College of 
Biological Sciences, University of California, Davis, California 95616 
slin@ucdavis.edu.

Attenuated nutrient signaling extends the life span in yeast and higher 
eukaryotes; however, the mechanisms are not completely understood. Here we 
identify the Ssy1-Ptr3-Ssy5 (SPS) amino acid sensing pathway as a novel 
longevity factor. A null mutation of SSY5 (ssy5Δ) increases replicative life 
span (RLS) by ∼50%. Our results demonstrate that several NAD(+) homeostasis 
factors play key roles in this life span extension. First, expression of the 
putative malate-pyruvate NADH shuttle increases in ssy5Δ cells, and deleting 
components of this shuttle, MAE1 and OAC1, largely abolishes RLS extension. 
Next, we show that Stp1, a transcription factor of the SPS pathway, directly 
binds to the promoter of MAE1 and OAC1 to regulate their expression. 
Additionally, deletion of SSY5 increases nicotinamide riboside (NR) levels and 
phosphate-responsive (PHO) signaling activity, suggesting that ssy5Δ increases 
NR salvaging. This increase contributes to NAD(+) homeostasis, partially 
ameliorating the NAD(+) deficiency and rescuing the short life span of the npt1Δ 
mutant. Moreover, we observed that vacuolar phosphatase, Pho8, is partially 
required for ssy5Δ-mediated NR increase and RLS extension. Together, our studies 
present evidence that supports SPS signaling is a novel NAD(+) homeostasis 
factor and ssy5Δ-mediated life span extension is likely due to concomitantly 
increased mitochondrial and vacuolar function. Our findings may contribute to 
understanding the molecular basis of NAD(+) metabolism, cellular life span, and 
diseases associated with NAD(+) deficiency and aging.

© 2015 by The American Society for Biochemistry and Molecular Biology, Inc.

DOI: 10.1074/jbc.M115.644534
PMCID: PMC4432292
PMID: 25825491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


136. Theranostics. 2015 Feb 15;5(6):545-58. doi: 10.7150/thno.10900. eCollection 
2015.

Radionuclide imaging of neurohormonal system of the heart.

Chen X(1), Werner RA(1), Javadi MS(2), Maya Y(3), Decker M(4), Lapa C(3), 
Herrmann K(3), Higuchi T(1).

Author information:
(1)1. Devision of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, 
Germany. ; 2. Comprehensive Heart Failure Center, University Hospital of 
Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, Germany.
(2)3. Devision of Nuclear Medicine, Johns Hopkins Bayview Medical Center, 
Baltimore, MD, USA.
(3)1. Devision of Nuclear Medicine, University Hospital of Wuerzburg, Wuerzburg, 
Germany.
(4)4. Institute of Pharmacy and Food Chemistry, University of Wuerzburg, 
Wuerzburg, Germany.

Heart failure is one of the growing causes of death especially in developed 
countries due to longer life expectancy. Although many pharmacological and 
instrumental therapeutic approaches have been introduced for prevention and 
treatment of heart failure, there are still limitations and challenges. Nuclear 
cardiology has experienced rapid growth in the last few decades, in particular 
the application of single photon emission computed tomography (SPECT) and 
positron emission tomography (PET), which allow non-invasive functional 
assessment of cardiac condition including neurohormonal systems involved in 
heart failure; its application has dramatically improved the capacity for 
fundamental research and clinical diagnosis. In this article, we review the 
current status of applying radionuclide technology in non-invasive imaging of 
neurohormonal system in the heart, especially focusing on the tracers that are 
currently available. A short discussion about disadvantages and perspectives is 
also included.

DOI: 10.7150/thno.10900
PMCID: PMC4377725
PMID: 25825596 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interest exists.


137. Proc Natl Acad Sci U S A. 2015 Apr 14;112(15):4803-8. doi: 
10.1073/pnas.1419300112. Epub 2015 Mar 30.

Dido mutations trigger perinatal death and generate brain abnormalities and 
behavioral alterations in surviving adult mice.

Villares R(1), Gutiérrez J(1), Fütterer A(1), Trachana V(1), Gutiérrez del Burgo 
F(1), Martínez-A C(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Immunology and Oncology, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología, 
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 
28049 Madrid, Spain.
(2)Department of Immunology and Oncology, Centro Nacional de Biotecnología, 
Consejo Superior de Investigaciones Científicas, Universidad Autónoma de Madrid, 
28049 Madrid, Spain cmartineza@cnb.csic.es.

Nearly all vertebrate cells have a single cilium protruding from their surface. 
This threadlike organelle, once considered vestigial, is now seen as a pivotal 
element for detection of extracellular signals that trigger crucial 
morphogenetic pathways. We recently proposed a role for Dido3, the main product 
of the death inducer-obliterator (dido) gene, in histone deacetylase 6 delivery 
to the primary cilium [Sánchez de Diego A, et al. (2014) Nat Commun 5:3500]. 
Here we used mice that express truncated forms of Dido proteins to determine the 
link with cilium-associated disorders. We describe dido mutant mice with high 
incidence of perinatal lethality and distinct neurodevelopmental, morphogenetic, 
and metabolic alterations. The anatomical abnormalities were related to brain 
and orofacial development, consistent with the known roles of primary cilia in 
brain patterning, hydrocephalus incidence, and cleft palate. Mutant mice that 
reached adulthood showed reduced life expectancy, brain malformations including 
hippocampus hypoplasia and agenesis of corpus callosum, as well as neuromuscular 
and behavioral alterations. These mice can be considered a model for the study 
of ciliopathies and provide information for assessing diagnosis and therapy of 
genetic disorders linked to the deregulation of primary cilia.

DOI: 10.1073/pnas.1419300112
PMCID: PMC4403199
PMID: 25825751 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


138. Rom J Morphol Embryol. 2015;56(1):163-8.

Macrophage response in patients diagnosed with aseptic necrosis of the femoral 
head presenting different risk factors.

Kamal D(1), Trăistaru R, Kamal CK, Alexandru DO, Ion DA, Grecu DC.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physical Medicine and Rehabilitation, University of Medicine 
and Pharmacy of Craiova, Romania; rodicatraistru@hotmail.com.

Aseptic necrosis of the femoral head is a condition caused by partial or total 
interruption of blood supply to the femoral head. The diminished blood supply 
causes necrosis of the cellular elements and of the bone marrow, followed by the 
collapse of the bone structure, events that ultimately lead to the destruction 
of the bone tissue, the appearance of local pain and loss of function in the 
affected coxofemoral joint. The importance of this condition is that it mainly 
affects young adults aged 30-50 years, active from a socio-professional 
standpoint, and increased life expectancy. The material studied to achieve CD68 
immunostaining was represented by bone fragments from the area of necrosis and 
from the adjacent areas of the femoral heads, harvested from 39 patients when 
performing hip arthroplasty surgery. The patients were diagnosed with aseptic 
necrosis of the femoral head and hospitalized in the Clinic of Orthopedics and 
Traumatology, Emergency County Hospital of Craiova, Romania, from June 2014 to 
January 2015. The 39 patients included in the study were divided into four 
categories according to presented risk factors (alcohol, alcohol and smoking, 
trauma, corticosteroids). All the 39 cases had positive immunostaining for CD68, 
macrophage being highlighted both in the area of necrosis and in the adjacent 
areas. We noted significant differences in the number and arrangement of 
macrophages in patients presenting different risk factors. The highest number of 
macrophages was present in patients presenting a risk factor corticosteroids, 
and the lowest number of macrophages was found in patients who had trauma as the 
main risk factor.

PMID: 25826501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


139. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2015 Apr;36(2):236-50. doi:
10.1055/s-0035-1547319.  Epub 2015 Mar 31.

Clinical updates in cystic fibrosis-related diabetes.

Brennan AL(1), Beynon J(1).

Author information:
(1)Manchester Adult Cystic Fibrosis Center, University Hospital South 
Manchester, Wythenshawe, Manchester, United Kingdom.

Improved clinical care has led to a dramatic increase in life expectancy for 
people with cystic fibrosis (CF). As they live longer, people with CF are 
therefore developing secondary complications. Cystic fibrosis-related diabetes 
(CFRD) is the commonest extrapulmonary complication of CF. Insulin deficiency is 
the primary defect in CFRD, but insulin resistance and impairment of the 
enteroinsular axis play contributory roles. CFRD affects 9% of people with CF 
aged 5 to 9 years, 26% aged 10 to 20 years, and up to 50% by the age of 30. The 
presence of CFRD is associated with accelerated decline in pulmonary function, 
poorer growth and nutritional status, and increased mortality. The need for 
early detection of abnormal glucose handling in CF is clear since it is linked 
with clinical decline. Patients with CFRD may be asymptomatic for many years, so 
it is recommended that screening be commenced at 10 years of age. Although oral 
glucose tolerance test is recommended, it is well recognized that early glucose 
handling abnormalities will not be detected and the chance to intervene early 
may be missed. Many centers are therefore using continuous glucose monitoring to 
refine the diagnosis and investigate real-life glycemic control. Future research 
will hopefully widen our understanding of the pathophysiology of CFRD and 
therefore the treatment options available. There are clearly some promising 
results suggesting the use of oral agents may prove beneficial in treating CFRD 
but insulin should remain the mainstay of treatment until these are further 
evaluated.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1547319
PMID: 25826591 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


140. Rejuvenation Res. 2015 Oct;18(5):422-36. doi: 10.1089/rej.2014.1656. Epub
2015  Sep 22.

Cryoprotectant Toxicity: Facts, Issues, and Questions.

Best BP(1).

Author information:
(1)Life Extension Foundation , Coconut Creek, Florida.

Erratum in
    Rejuvenation Res. 2018 Feb;21(1):87.

High levels of penetrating cryoprotectants (CPAs) can eliminate ice formation 
during cryopreservation of cells, tissues, and organs to cryogenic temperatures. 
But CPAs become increasingly toxic as concentration increases. Many strategies 
have been attempted to overcome the problem of eliminating ice while minimizing 
toxicity, such as attempting to optimize cooling and warming rates, or 
attempting to optimize time of adding individual CPAs during cooling. Because 
strategies currently used are not adequate, CPA toxicity remains the greatest 
obstacle to cryopreservation. CPA toxicity stands in the way of cryogenic 
cryopreservation of human organs, a procedure that has the potential to save 
many lives. This review attempts to describe what is known about CPA toxicity, 
theories of CPA toxicity, and strategies to reduce CPA toxicity. Critical 
analysis and suggestions are also included.

DOI: 10.1089/rej.2014.1656
PMCID: PMC4620521
PMID: 25826677 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


141. Adv Gerontol. 2014;27(3):432-46.

[Special mechanisms for reducing life span of cells and organisms, initiated by 
some weak external signals].

[Article in Russian]

Bychkovskaia IB, Fedortseva RF.

The study presents the results of many-years research conducted using biological 
objects of different organization level. It demonstrates special 
species-nonspecific form of weak external signals negative effect to cells life 
expectancy reduction caused by program damage of cells populations. This effect 
is detected after weak radiation, radio-chemical and thermal influences. It 
leads to faster extinction of postmitotic populations which can be a reason for 
life expectancy reduction of multicellular organisms. A possibility of such 
effect inheritance in the asexual and sexual reproduction is shown. Epigenetic 
mechanisms of this phenomenon are assumed.

PMID: 25826988 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


142. Adv Gerontol. 2014;27(3):519-30.

How to approach to the therapy of diabetes in the elderly.

Weber P, Weberova D, Meluzinova H.

In gerontology diabetes mellitus (DM) is clinically the most frequent and 
extremely serious metabolic disorder. DM is an important health issue across the 
globe. With increasing life expectancy physicians are called upon to manage 
diabetes in the elderly more often. Senior patients suffer predominantly from 
the type 2 DM--T2DM (70+ up to 90-95%). Apart from genetic predisposition and an 
environmental influence, nutritional habits, modern lifestyle, stress and minor 
physical activity are of particular importance. Treatment options for T2DM in 
the elderly are diet, physical activity, various oral anti-diabetic drugs and 
insulin. At the start of treatment should primarily take into account: patient's 
age; self-sufficiency; late micro- and macro-vascular complications; social 
status; nutritional assessment (incl. dental status); other handicaps--psychic, 
motoric, visual and aural. Especially in frail, elderly patients, there should 
be less emphasis on strict glycaemic control than on avoiding malnutrition and 
hypoglycemia and achieving the best possible quality of life. Therapy of DM in 
this population is tightly connected with significant risks of micro- and 
macrovascular complications on one hand, and possible problems of the treatment 
(e.g. hypoglycemia) with intensive control on the other hand. To realize a 
comprehensive approach to therapy of diabetes in the old age a holistic approach 
with main aim improving quality of life is necessary.

PMID: 25827001 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


143. J Minim Invasive Gynecol. 2015 Jul-Aug;22(5):820-6. doi: 
10.1016/j.jmig.2015.03.015. Epub 2015 Mar 28.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Morcellation Hysterectomy for Myomas.

Bortoletto P(1), Einerson BD(2), Miller ES(2), Milad MP(3).

Author information:
(1)Northwestern University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.
(2)Department of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Northwestern University Feinberg 
School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois.
(3)Division of Reproductive Endocrinology and Infertility, Northwestern 
University Feinberg School of Medicine, Chicago, Illinois. Electronic address: 
mmilad@nmh.org.

STUDY OBJECTIVE: To estimate the cost-effectiveness of eliminating morcellation 
in the surgical treatment of leiomyomas from a societal perspective.
DESIGN: Cost-effectiveness analysis.
DESIGN CLASSIFICATION: Not applicable.
SETTING: A theoretical cohort of women undergoing hysterectomy for myoma disease 
large enough to require morcellation.
PATIENTS: None.
INTERVENTIONS: None.
MEASUREMENTS: A decision analysis model was constructed using probabilities, 
costs, and utility data from published sources. A cost-effectiveness analysis 
analyzing both quality-adjusted life years (QALYs) and cases of disseminated 
cancer was performed to determine the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio 
(ICER) of eliminating morcellation as a tool in the surgical treatment of 
leiomyomas. Costs and utilities were discounted using standard methodology. The 
base case included health care system costs and costs incurred by the patient 
for surgery-related disability. One-way sensitivity analyses were performed to 
assess the effect of various assumptions.
MAIN RESULTS: The cost to prevent 1 case of disseminated cancer was $10 540 832. 
A strategy of nonmorcellation hysterectomy via laparotomy costed more ($30 
359.92 vs $20 853.15) and yielded more QALYs (21.284 vs 21.280) relative to 
morcellation hysterectomy. The ICER for nonmorcellation hysterectomy compared 
with morcellation hysterectomy was $2 184 172 per QALY. Health care costs 
(prolonged hospitalizations) and costs to patients of prolonged time away from 
work were the primary drivers of cost differential between the 2 strategies. 
Even when the incidence of occult sarcoma in leiomyoma surgery was ranged to 
twice that reported in the literature (.98%), the ICER for nonmorcellation 
hysterectomy was $644 393.30.
CONCLUSIONS: Eliminating morcellation hysterectomy as a treatment for myomas is 
not cost-effective under a wide variety of probability and cost assumptions. 
Performing laparotomy for all patients who might otherwise be candidates for 
morcellation hysterectomy is a costly policy from a societal perspective.

Copyright © 2015 AAGL. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jmig.2015.03.015
PMID: 25827327 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


144. J Travel Med. 2015 Jul-Aug;22(4):237-41. doi: 10.1111/jtm.12200. Epub 2015
Apr  1.

Establishment of Health Utility Indices for Post-Infectious Functional 
Gastrointestinal Disorders in Active Duty US Military.

Porter CK(1), Thura N(1), Schlett CD(2), Sanders JW(1), Tribble DR(2), 
Monteville MR(3), Riddle MS(1).

Author information:
(1)Enteric Diseases Department, Naval Medical Research Center, Silver Spring, 
MD, USA.
(2)Department of Preventive Medicine and Biometrics, Infectious Disease Clinical 
Research Program, Uniformed Services University, Rockville, MD, USA.
(3)Naval Medical Research Center-Asia, Khan Toul Kork, Phnom Penh, Cambodia.

INTRODUCTION: Knowledge of disease burden attributable to functional 
gastrointestinal disorders (FGD) in travelers is lacking, despite the high 
incidence of travelers' diarrhea (TD) associated with increased FGD risk. One 
tool for assessing the impact of disease on health-related quality of life is 
the health utility index (HUI), which values health states based on preferential 
health outcomes. Health utilities can be used as preference weights in the 
estimation of quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs).
METHODS: Six months following travel to Egypt or Turkey, 120 US military 
personnel completed a survey on TD during deployment, health-related quality of 
life (SF-36), and the onset of functional bowel disorders (Rome II). Elements 
from the SF-36 were used to develop SF-6D values, which were combined with 
health state valuations to enable calculation of HUI scores for each subject. 
Mean index scores were compared across functional outcomes, specific symptoms, 
and demographic profiles.
RESULTS: The presence of FGD significantly reduced index scores, with irritable 
bowel syndrome (IBS) and dyspepsia showing the greatest impact (-0.17 and -0.19, 
respectively) compared with those with no FGD (p < 0.05). Importantly, however, 
several individuals met multiple FGD outcome definitions. Additionally, a number 
of symptoms associated with abnormal bowel habits and abdominal pain were 
associated with reduced index scores regardless of outcome.
CONCLUSION: FGD are associated with significant morbidity as assessed by HUIs. 
Given the strong link between TD and FGD as well as the large number of 
travelers from the developed to the developing world, additional study is needed 
to further understand this association and efforts aimed at primary disease 
prevention are warranted.

Published 2015. This article has been contributed to by US Government employees 
and their work is in the public domain in the USA.

DOI: 10.1111/jtm.12200
PMID: 25827629 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


145. Ann Saudi Med. 2014 Sep-Oct;34(5):447-9. doi: 10.5144/0256-4947.2014.447.

Pulmonary epitheloid hemangioendothelioma PET CT findings and review of 
literature.

Nizami I(1), Mohammed S, Abouzied Mel D.

Author information:
(1)Dr. Imran Yaqoob Nizami, Organ Transplant Center, MBC 96, King Faisal 
Specialist Hospital and Research Centre, PO Box 3354 Riyadh 11211, Saudi Arabia, 
T: 966-11-4647272 loc 76164, F: 966-11-4647272 loc 76167, 
imranyaqoob@kfshrc.edu.sa.

We describe a case of pulmonary epitheloid hemangioendothelioma (PEH) in a 13 
years old girl, the aggressive nature of the tumor in this particular case and 
the PET CT findings. PEH are rare tumors of vascular origin, first described by 
Dial and Liebow in 1975. This is an uncommon pulmonary neoplasm, 4 times more 
common in young women. This tumor can affect multiple organs (lung, liver, bones 
and soft tissue, skin, heart, central nervous system). However lung and liver 
represent 2 main locations. Clinical manifestations are variable; typically 
patients are asymptomatic, and PEH is detected on routine chest radiographs as 
bilateral small (1 cm or less) nodules in the lungs Diagnosis usually requires a 
surgical lung biopsy. The prognosis is very unpredictable, with life expectancy 
ranging from 1 to 15 years. The tumor is usually considered as low to 
intermediate grade sarcoma. There is no single effective treatment however 
spontaneous remissions and aggressive behavior has been described.

DOI: 10.5144/0256-4947.2014.447
PMCID: PMC6074559
PMID: 25827705 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


146. Spine J. 2015 Jul 1;15(7):1609-17. doi: 10.1016/j.spinee.2015.03.037. Epub
2015  Mar 28.

Short-segment percutaneous pedicle screw fixation with cement augmentation for 
tumor-induced spinal instability.

Moussazadeh N(1), Rubin DG(2), McLaughlin L(3), Lis E(4), Bilsky MH(1), Laufer 
I(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 
1275 York Ave., New York, NY 10065, USA; Department of Neurological Surgery, 
Weill Cornell Medical College, New York Presbyterian Hospital, 525 E. 68th St, 
New York, NY 10065, USA.
(2)Legacy Spine & Neurological Associates, 5800 W. 10th St, Little Rock, AR, 
USA.
(3)Department of Neurological Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 
1275 York Ave., New York, NY 10065, USA.
(4)Department of Radiology, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 1275 York 
Ave., New York, NY 10065, USA.
(5)Department of Neurological Surgery, Memorial Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, 
1275 York Ave., New York, NY 10065, USA; Department of Neurological Surgery, 
Weill Cornell Medical College, New York Presbyterian Hospital, 525 E. 68th St, 
New York, NY 10065, USA. Electronic address: lauferi@mskcc.org.

BACKGROUND CONTEXT: Pathologic vertebral compression fractures (VCFs) represent 
a major source of morbidity and diminished quality of life in the spinal 
oncology population. Procedures with low morbidity that effectively treat 
patients with pathologic fractures are especially important in the cancer 
population where life expectancy is limited. Vertebroplasty and kyphoplasty are 
often not effective for mechanically unstable pathologic fractures extending 
into the pedicle and facet joints. Combination of cement augmentation and 
percutaneous instrumented stabilization represents a minimally invasive 
treatment option that does not delay radiation and systemic therapy.
PURPOSE: The objective of the study was to evaluate the safety and efficacy of 
cement-augmented short-segment percutaneous posterolateral instrumentation for 
tumor-associated VCF with pedicle and joint involvement.
METHODS: Forty-four consecutive patients underwent cement-augmented percutaneous 
spinal fixation for unstable tumors between 2011 and 2014. Retrospective 
analysis of prospectively collected data, including visual analog pain scale 
(VAS) response score and procedural complications, was performed.
RESULTS: Patients with a median composite Spinal Instability Neoplastic Scale 
score of 10 (range=8-15) were treated with constructs spanning one to four disk 
spaces (median of two spaces, constituting 84% of all cases). The proportion of 
patients with severe pain decreased from 86% preoperatively to 0%; 65% of 
patients reported no referable instability pain postoperatively. There was one 
adjacent-level fracture responsive to kyphoplasty, and one case of asymptomatic 
screw pullout. Two patients subsequently required decompression in the setting 
of disease progression despite radiation; there was no perioperative morbidity.
CONCLUSIONS: Percutaneous cement-augmented posterolateral spinal fixation is a 
safe and effective option for palliation of appropriately selected mechanically 
unstable VCF that extends into pedicle and/or joint.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.spinee.2015.03.037
PMID: 25828478 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


147. Neurosurg Focus. 2015 Apr;38(4):E7. doi: 10.3171/2015.1.FOCUS14791.

Bow hunter's syndrome revisited: 2 new cases and literature review of 124 cases.

Jost GF(1), Dailey AT.

Author information:
(1)Spine Surgery, University Hospital Basel, Switzerland; and.

Comment in
    Neurosurg Focus. 2015 Nov;39(5):E6.

Rotational occlusion of the vertebral artery (VA), or bow hunter's syndrome, is 
a rare yet surgically treatable cause of vertebrobasilar insufficiency. The 
underlying pathology is dynamic stenosis of the VA by osteophytes, fibrous 
bands, or lateral disc herniation with neck rotation or extension. The authors 
present 2 previously unreported cases of bow hunter's syndrome and summarize 124 
cases identified in a literature review. Both patients in the new cases were 
treated by VA decompression and fusion of the subaxial spine. Each had > 50% 
occlusion of the left VA at the point of entry into the transverse foramen with 
a contralateral VA that ended in the posterior inferior cerebellar artery. 
Analyzing data from 126 cases (the 2 new cases in addition to the previously 
published 124), the authors report that stenosis was noted within V1 in 4% of 
cases, in V2 in 58%, in V3 in 36%, and distal to C-1 in 2%. Patients presented 
in the 5th to 7th decade of life and were more often male than female. The 
stenotic area was decompressed in 85 (73%) of the 116 patients for whom the type 
of treatment was reported (V1, 4 [80%] of 5; V2, 52 [83%] of 63; V3/V4, 29 [60%] 
of 48). Less commonly, fusion or combined decompression and fusion was used (V2, 
7 [11%] of 63; V3/V4, 14 [29%] of 48). Most patients reported complete 
resolution of symptoms. The authors conclude that patients with bow hunter's 
syndrome classically have an impaired collateral blood flow to the brainstem. 
This condition carries an excellent prognosis with decompression, fusion, or 
combined surgery, and individual patient characteristics should guide the choice 
of therapy.

DOI: 10.3171/2015.1.FOCUS14791
PMID: 25828501 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


148. Otolaryngol Head Neck Surg. 2015 May;152(5):948-53. doi: 
10.1177/0194599815577602. Epub 2015 Mar 31.

Standardized outcome and reporting measures in pediatric head and neck lymphatic 
malformations.

Balakrishnan K(1), Bauman N(2), Chun RH(3), Darrow DH(4), Grimmer JF(5), Perkins 
JA(6), Richter GT(7), Shin JJ(8), Shivaram GM(6), Sidell DR(9), Elluru RG(10).

Author information:
(1)Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota, USA.
(2)Children's National Medical Center, Washington, DC, USA.
(3)Medical College of Wisconsin, Milwaukee, Wisconsin, USA.
(4)Eastern Virginia Medical School, Norfolk, Virginia, USA.
(5)University of Utah, Salt Lake City, Utah, USA.
(6)Seattle Children's Hospital, Seattle, Washington, USA.
(7)University of Arkansas for Medical Sciences, Little Rock, Arkansas, USA.
(8)Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts, USA.
(9)Stanford University, Palo Alto, California, USA.
(10)Dayton Children's Hospital, Dayton, Ohio, USA ellurur@childrensdayton.org.

OBJECTIVE: To develop general and site-specific treatment effect and outcome 
measures to standardize the reporting of head and neck lymphatic malformation 
(HNLM) treatments.
STUDY DESIGN: Consensus statement/expert opinion.
SETTING: Multiple tertiary academic institutions.
SUBJECTS AND METHODS: The modified Delphi method is an iterative process of 
collecting expert opinions, refining opinions through discussion and feedback, 
statistically aggregating opinions, and using these aggregates to generate 
consensus opinion in the absence of other data. The modified Delphi method was 
used by a multi-institutional group of otolaryngology and interventional 
radiology experts in the field of vascular anomalies to formulate a list of 
recommended reporting outcomes for the study and treatment of head and neck 
lymphatic malformations.
RESULTS: Through 3 rounds of iteration, 10 expert panelists refined 98 proposed 
outcome measures and 9 outcome categories to a final consensus set of 50 
recommended outcome measures in 3 global categories (general, demographics, and 
treatment complications) and 5 site-specific categories (orbit, oral cavity, 
pharynx, larynx, and neck).
CONCLUSIONS: We propose the first consensus set of standardized reporting 
measures for clinical and treatment outcomes in studies of HNLMs. Consistent 
outcome measures across future studies will facilitate comparison of treatment 
options and allow systematic review. We hope that these guidelines facilitate 
the design and reporting of subsequent HNLM studies.

© American Academy of Otolaryngology-Head and Neck Surgery Foundation 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0194599815577602
PMID: 25829389 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


149. Glob Health Promot. 2016 Dec;23(4):70-72. doi: 10.1177/1757975915574255.
Epub  2015 Mar 31.

Should the governments of 'developed' countries be held responsible for 
equalizing the indigenous health gap?

Abdolhosseini P(1), Bonner C(1), Montano A(1), Young YY(1), Wadsworth D(2), 
Williams M(1), Stoner L(3).

Author information:
(1)Harvard School of Public Health-Multidisciplinary International Research 
Training Program, Boston, MA, United States.
(2)Massey University-Institute of Food Nutrition and Human Health, Wellington, 
New Zealand.
(3)Massey University-School of Sport and Exercise, Wellington, New Zealand 
dr.l.stoner@gmail.com.

Across the globe there is significant variation between and within indigenous 
populations in terms of world view, culture, and socio-political forces. 
However, many indigenous groups do share a striking commonality: greater rates 
of non-communicable diseases and shorter life expectancies than non-indigenous 
compatriots. Notably, this health gap persists for 'developed' countries, 
including Australia, Canada, New Zealand and the United States. The question of 
who is responsible for equalizing the gap is complicated. Using Australia as an 
exemplar context, this commentary will present arguments 'for' and 'against' the 
governments of developed nations being held liable for closing the indigenous 
health gap. We will discuss the history and nature of the health gap, actions 
needed to 'close the gap', and which party has the necessary resources to do so.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/1757975915574255
PMID: 25829406 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


150. J Food Sci Technol. 2015 Apr;52(4):2184-92. doi: 10.1007/s13197-013-1241-2.
Epub  2013 Dec 28.

Effect of nisin as a biopreservative agent on quality and shelf life of vacuum 
packaged rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) stored at 4 °C.

Behnam S(1), Anvari M(1), Rezaei M(1), Soltanian S(2), Safari R(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Fisheries, Faculty of Fisheries and Natural Resources, Tarbiat 
Modares University, Noor, Mazandaran Iran.
(2)Aquatic Animal Health Diseases Department, School of Veterinary Medicine, 
Shiraz University, Shiraz, Iran.
(3)Caspian Sea Ecology Research Institute, Sari, 4847153948 Iran.

Effect of nisin on biochemical and microbial quality and shelf life of vacuum 
packaged rainbow trout (Oncorhynchus mykiss) during 16 days storage at 4 °C was 
investigated. According to the obtained results, nisin treated fish showed lower 
(p < 0.05) and acceptable biochemical (Peroxide value, thiobarbituric 
acid-index, pH, and total volatile base nitrogen) and bacteriological (total 
viable counts, psychrotrophic viable counts, and lactic acid bacteria) 
attributes up to 16 days storage at 4 °C compared with those treated without 
nisin. Furthermore, FAs composition analysis indicated that presence of the 
nisin preserved nutritional quality of fish lipid, so that nisin treated samples 
contained higher percentage (p > 0.05) of essential FAs such as eicosapentaenoic 
acid and docosahexaenoic acid. This study concluded that treatment of the vacuum 
packaged rainbow trout with nisin resulted in improvement of quality and 
extension of shelf life of the fish from 12 to 16 days at 4 °C.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-013-1241-2
PMCID: PMC4375236
PMID: 25829599


151. Qual Manag Health Care. 2015 Apr-Jun;24(2):96-101. doi: 
10.1097/QMH.0000000000000058.

Senior alert: a quality registry to support a standardized, structured, and 
systematic preventive care process for older adults.

Edvinsson J(1), Rahm M, Trinks A, Höglund PJ.

Author information:
(1)Qulturum, Center for Development, Jönköping County Council, Jönköping, Sweden 
(Mr Edvinsson and Drs Rahm and Trinks); and The Jönköping Academy for 
Improvement of Health and Welfare, Jönköping University, Jönköping, Sweden (Dr 
Höglund).

The average life expectancy and the proportion of the elderly in the Western 
countries are increasing. The care processes used for the elderly are known to 
differ between the care providers in Sweden. Accordingly, the need to develop a 
system to support the processes in order to attain a standardized, structured, 
