at each stage based on the analysis that made the best use of available 
information, whether or not the assumptions required appeared more reasonable 
than the other alternatives available, and which provided a more complete 
picture of the likely health effects of a change in expenditure. However, the 
limitation of currently available data means that there is substantial 
uncertainty associated with the estimate of the overall threshold.
CONCLUSIONS: The methods go some way to providing an empirical estimate of the 
scale of opportunity costs the NHS faces when considering whether or not the 
health benefits associated with new technologies are greater than the health 
that is likely to be lost elsewhere in the NHS. Priorities for future research 
include estimating the threshold for subsequent waves of expenditure and outcome 
data, for example by utilising expenditure and outcomes available at the level 
of Clinical Commissioning Groups as well as additional data collected on QoL and 
updated estimates of incidence (by age and gender) and duration of disease. 
Nonetheless, the study also starts to make the other NHS patients, who 
ultimately bear the opportunity costs of such decisions, less abstract and more 
'known' in social decisions.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research-Medical Research Council 
Methodology Research Programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta19140
PMCID: PMC4781395
PMID: 25692211 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Neurosurgery. 2015 Mar;76 Suppl 1:S64-70. doi: 
10.1227/01.neu.0000462079.96571.dc.

Determination of the minimum improvement in pain, disability, and health state 
associated with cost-effectiveness: introduction of the concept of minimum 
cost-effective difference.

Parker SL(1), McGirt MJ.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurosurgery, Vanderbilt University Medical Center, and 
Vanderbilt Spinal Column Surgical Quality and Outcomes Research Laboratory, 
Nashville, Tennessee.

BACKGROUND: Minimum clinical important difference (MCID) has been adopted as the 
smallest improvement in patient-reported outcome needed to achieve a level of 
improvement thought to be meaningful to patients.
OBJECTIVE: To use a common MCID calculation method with a cost-utility threshold 
anchor to introduce the concept of minimum cost-effective difference (MCED).
METHODS: Forty-five patients undergoing transforaminal lumbar interbody fusion 
for degenerative spondylolisthesis were included. Outcome questionnaires were 
administered before and 2 years after surgery. Total cost per quality-adjusted 
life-year (QALY) gained was calculated for each patient. MCED was determined 
from receiver-operating characteristic curve analysis with a cost-effective 
anchor of < $50,000/QALY and < $75,000/QALY. MCID was determined with the health 
transition item as the anchor.
RESULTS: Significant improvement was observed 2 years after transforaminal 
lumbar interbody fusion for all outcome measures. Mean total cost per QALY 
gained at 2 years was $42,854. MCED was greater than MCID for each outcome 
measure, meaning that a greater improvement was required to represent 
cost-effectiveness than a clinically meaningful improvement to patients. The 
area under the receiver-operating characteristic curve was consistently ≥ 0.70 
with both cost-effective anchors, suggesting that outcome change scores were 
accurate predictors of cost-effectiveness. Mean cost per QALY gained was 
significantly lower for patients achieving compared with those not achieving an 
MCED in visual analog scale for leg pain ($43,560 vs $112,087), visual analog 
scale for back pain ($41,280 vs $129440), Oswestry Disability Index ($30,954 vs 
$121,750), and EuroQol 5D ($35800 vs $189412).
CONCLUSION: MCED serves as the smallest improvement in an outcome instrument 
that is associated with a cost-effective response to surgery. With the use of 
cost-effective anchor of < $50,000/QALY, MCED after transforaminal lumbar 
interbody fusion was 4 points for visual analog scale for low back pain, 3 
points for visual analog scale for leg pain, 22 points for Oswestry Disability 
Index, and 0.31 QALYs for EuroQol 5D.

DOI: 10.1227/01.neu.0000462079.96571.dc
PMID: 25692370 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Blood Coagul Fibrinolysis. 2015 Jun;26(4):403-7. doi: 
10.1097/MBC.0000000000000280.

Cost-utility analysis of an adjunctive recombinant activated factor VIIa for 
on-demand treatment of bleeding episodes in dengue haemorrhagic fever.

Naing C(1), Poovorawan Y, Mak JW, Aung K, Kamolratankul P.

Author information:
(1)aInstitute for Research, Development and Innovation, International Medical 
University, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia bChulalongkorn University, Bangkok, Thailand 
cSchool of Medicine, International Medical University, Kuala Lumpur, Malaysia 
*Cho Naing and Yong Poovorawan contributed equally to the writing of this 
article.

The present study aimed to assess the cost-utility analysis of using an 
adjunctive recombinant activated factor VIIa (rFVIIa) in children for 
controlling life-threatening bleeding in dengue haemorrhagic fever (DHF)/dengue 
shock syndrome (DSS). We constructed a decision-tree model, comparing a standard 
care and the use of an additional adjuvant rFVIIa for controlling 
life-threatening bleeding in children with DHF/DSS. Cost and utility benefit 
were estimated from the societal perspective. The outcome measure was cost per 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Overall, treatment with adjuvant rFVIIa 
gained QALYs, but the total cost was higher. The incremental cost-utility ratio 
for the introduction of adjuvant rFVIIa was $4241.27 per additional QALY. 
Sensitivity analyses showed the utility value assigned for calculation of QALY 
was the most sensitive parameter. We concluded that despite high cost, there is 
a role for rFVIIa in the treatment of life-threatening bleeding in patients with 
DHF/DSS.

DOI: 10.1097/MBC.0000000000000280
PMID: 25692521 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. PLoS One. 2015 Feb 18;10(2):e0117461. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0117461. 
eCollection 2015.

Traditional risk factors are more relevant than HIV-specific ones for carotid 
intima-media thickness (cIMT) in a Brazilian cohort of HIV-infected patients.

Pacheco AG(1), Grinsztejn B(2), da Fonseca Mde J(3), Moreira RI(2), Veloso 
VG(2), Friedman RK(2), Santini-Oliveira M(2), Cardoso SW(2), Falcão M(1), Mill 
JG(4), Bensenor I(5), Lotufo P(5), Chor D(3).

Author information:
(1)FIOCRUZ, Programa de Computação Científica, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.
(2)FIOCRUZ, Instituto de Pesquisa Clínica Evandro Chagas, Rio de Janeiro, 
Brazil.
(3)FIOCRUZ, Departamento de Epidemiologia e Métodos Quantitativos em Saúde, Rio 
de Janeiro, Brazil.
(4)Federal University of Espírito Santo, Departamento de Ciências Fisiológicas, 
Vitória, Brazil.
(5)University of São Paulo, School of Medicine, São Paulo, Brazil.

BACKGROUND: Combination antiretroviral therapy (cART) had a dramatic impact on 
the mortality profile in human immunodeficiency virus (HIV) infected individuals 
and increased their life-expectancy. Conditions associated with the aging 
process have been diagnosed more frequently among HIV-infected patients, 
particularly, cardiovascular diseases.
METHODS: Patients followed in the Instituto de Pesquisa Clínica Evandro Chagas 
(IPEC) prospective cohort in Rio de Janeiro were submitted to the general 
procedures from the Brazilian Longitudinal Study of Adult Health, comprising 
several anthropometric, laboratory and imaging data. Carotid intima-media 
thickness (cIMT) was measured by ultrasonography, following the Mannheim 
protocol. Linear regression and proportional odds models were used to compare 
groups and covariables in respect to cIMT. The best model was chosen with the 
adaptive lasso procedure.
RESULTS: A valid cIMT exam was available for 591 patients. Median cIMT was 
significantly larger for men than women (0.56mm vs. 0.53mm; p = 0.002; overall = 
0.54mm). In univariable linear regression analysis, both traditional risk 
factors for cardiovascular diseases (CVD) and HIV-specific characteristics were 
significantly associated with cIMT values, but the best multivariable model 
chosen included only traditional characteristics. Hypertension presented the 
strongest association with higher cIMT terciles (OR = 2.51; 95%CI = 1.69-3.73), 
followed by current smoking (OR = 1,82; 95%CI = 1.19-2.79), family history of 
acute myocardial infarction or stroke (OR = 1.60; 95%CI = 1.10-2.32) and age (OR 
per year = 1.12; 95%CI = 1.10-1.14).
CONCLUSIONS: Our results show that traditional cardiovascular disease (CVD) risk 
factors are the major players in determining increased cIMT among HIV infected 
patients in Brazil. This finding reinforces the need for thorough assessment of 
those risk factors in these patients to guarantee the incidence of CVD events 
remain under control.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0117461
PMCID: PMC4333203
PMID: 25692764 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: AGP and BG are PLOS ONE 
Editorial Board members. This does not alter the authors’ adherence to all the 
PLOS ONE policies on sharing data and materials. All other authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


729. PLoS Genet. 2015 Feb 18;11(2):e1004873. doi: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004873. 
eCollection 2015 Feb.

Systemic delivery of microRNA-101 potently inhibits hepatocellular carcinoma in 
vivo by repressing multiple targets.

Zheng F(1), Liao YJ(2), Cai MY(3), Liu TH(1), Chen SP(2), Wu PH(4), Wu L(5), 
Bian XW(6), Guan XY(7), Zeng YX(2), Yuan YF(8), Kung HF(9), Xie D(3).

Author information:
(1)The State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Sun Yat-Sen University 
Cancer Center, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, 
China; Medical Research Center, Sun Yat-Sen Memorial Hospital, Guangzhou, China.
(2)The State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Sun Yat-Sen University 
Cancer Center, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, 
China.
(3)The State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Sun Yat-Sen University 
Cancer Center, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, 
China; Department of Pathology, Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, 
China.
(4)The State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Sun Yat-Sen University 
Cancer Center, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, 
China; Tumor Interventional Therapy, Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Center, 
Guangzhou, China; Hepatobiliary Oncology, Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Center, 
Guangzhou, China.
(5)Department of Clinical Oncology, People's Hospital, Wuhan University, Wuhan, 
China.
(6)Institute of Pathology and Southwest Cancer Center, Southwest Hospital, Third 
Military Medical University, Chongqing, China.
(7)The State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Sun Yat-Sen University 
Cancer Center, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, 
China; Department of Clinical Oncology, the University of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, 
China.
(8)The State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Sun Yat-Sen University 
Cancer Center, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, 
China; Hepatobiliary Oncology, Sun Yat-Sen University Cancer Center, Guangzhou, 
China.
(9)The State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, Sun Yat-Sen University 
Cancer Center, Collaborative Innovation Center for Cancer Medicine, Guangzhou, 
China; State Key Laboratory of Oncology in South China, the Chinese University 
of Hong Kong, Hong Kong, China.

Erratum in
    PLoS Genet. 2021 Dec 8;17(12):e1009960.

Targeted therapy based on adjustment of microRNA (miRNA)s activity takes great 
promise due to the ability of these small RNAs to modulate cellular behavior. 
However, the efficacy of miR-101 replacement therapy to hepatocellular carcinoma 
(HCC) remains unclear. In the current study, we first observed that plasma 
levels of miR-101 were significantly lower in distant metastatic HCC patients 
than in HCCs without distant metastasis, and down-regulation of plasma miR-101 
predicted a worse disease-free survival (DFS, P<0.05). In an animal model of 
HCC, we demonstrated that systemic delivery of lentivirus-mediated miR-101 
abrogated HCC growth in the liver, intrahepatic metastasis and distant 
metastasis to the lung and to the mediastinum, resulting in a dramatic 
suppression of HCC development and metastasis in mice without toxicity and 
extending life expectancy. Furthermore, enforced overexpression of miR-101 in 
HCC cells not only decreased EZH2, COX2 and STMN1, but also directly 
down-regulated a novel target ROCK2, inhibited Rho/Rac GTPase activation, and 
blocked HCC cells epithelial-mesenchymal transition (EMT) and angiogenesis, 
inducing a strong abrogation of HCC tumorigenesis and aggressiveness both in 
vitro and in vivo. These results provide proof-of-concept support for systemic 
delivery of lentivirus-mediated miR-101 as a powerful anti-HCC therapeutic 
modality by repressing multiple molecular targets.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pgen.1004873
PMCID: PMC4334495
PMID: 25693145 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors have declared that no competing 
interests exist.


730. J Eur Acad Dermatol Venereol. 2015 Sep;29(9):1763-70. doi:
10.1111/jdv.12996.  Epub 2015 Feb 18.

Improvement of scalp and nail lesions with ixekizumab in a phase 2 trial in 
patients with chronic plaque psoriasis.

Langley RG(1), Rich P(2), Menter A(3), Krueger G(4), Goldblum O(5), Dutronc 
Y(5), Zhu B(5), Wei H(5), Cameron GS(5), Heffernan MP(5).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Dermatology and Cutaneous Science, Department of 
Medicine, Dalhousie University, Halifax, NS, Canada.
(2)Department of Dermatology, Oregon Health & Science University School of 
Medicine, Portland, OR, USA.
(3)Department of Dermatology, University of Texas Southwestern Medical Center 
Southwestern Medical School, Dallas, TX, USA.
(4)Department of Dermatology, University of Utah School of Medicine, Salt Lake 
City, UT, USA.
(5)Eli Lilly and Company, Indianapolis, IN, USA.

BACKGROUND: Scalp and nail psoriasis have a major impact on quality of life and 
are traditionally resistant to therapy. Ixekizumab is a monoclonal antibody that 
targets IL-17A, a key cytokine in psoriasis pathogenesis.
OBJECTIVE: Changes in nail and scalp psoriasis associated with ixekizumab 
treatment were evaluated in a post hoc analysis of a phase 2 study comprising a 
20-week randomized, placebo-controlled (RCT) period and 48 weeks of an 
open-label extension (OLE) period.
METHODS: There were 142 patients with moderate-to-severe plaque psoriasis at 
baseline of the RCT. Patients were randomized to receive placebo, 10, 25, 75 or 
150 mg of ixekizumab injected subcutaneously at weeks 0, 2, 4, 8, 12 and 16. In 
the OLE, all patients received 120 mg ixekizumab every 4 weeks. Nail Psoriasis 
Severity Index (NAPSI) and Psoriasis Scalp Severity Index (PSSI) were used to 
evaluate nail and scalp psoriasis respectively. Fifty-eight (41.0%) patients had 
nail psoriasis (NAPSI > 0) and 105 (74.0%) had scalp psoriasis (PSSI > 0) at 
baseline; these cases were evaluated for the present analyses.
RESULTS: At RCT week 20, patients with scalp psoriasis in the 25-, 75- and 
150-mg groups had significant mean change and percent improvement from baseline 
PSSI of -16.3 (75.3%; P = 0.001), -11.6 (83.7%; P = 0.001) and -18.2 (82.2%; P < 
0.001) respectively compared to -6.0 (18.8%) in placebo. Patients with nail 
psoriasis in the 75- and 150-mg groups had significant improvements from 
baseline NAPSI of -26.3 (63.8%; P = 0.003) and -23.1 (52.6%; P = 0.009) 
respectively compared to 0.4 (-1.7%) in placebo. By OLE week 48, 78.0% of 
patients with scalp psoriasis and 51.0% of patients with nail psoriasis 
experienced complete resolution of lesions (PSSI = 0 or NAPSI = 0).
CONCLUSIONS: Ixekizumab monotherapy improved scalp psoriasis quickly with 
maintenance of clinical response and complete resolution of plaques in the 
majority of patients. Additionally, over 50.0% of patients with nail psoriasis 
experienced complete resolution of nail lesions by OLE week 48.

© 2015 European Academy of Dermatology and Venereology.

DOI: 10.1111/jdv.12996
PMID: 25693783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Appl Physiol Nutr Metab. 2015 Mar;40(3):274-9. doi: 10.1139/apnm-2014-0390.
Epub  2014 Nov 19.

Effect of a prior bout of preconditioning exercise on muscle damage from 
downhill walking.

Maeo S(1), Ochi Y, Yamamoto M, Kanehisa H, Nosaka K.

Author information:
(1)Sports and Life Science, National Institute of Fitness and Sports in Kanoya, 
1 Shiromizu, Kanoya, Kagoshima 891-2393, Japan., Japan Society for the Promotion 
of Science, Kouji, Tokyo 102-0088, Japan., School of Exercise and Health 
Sciences, Centre for Exercise and Sports Science Research, Edith Cowan 
University, Joondalup, WA 6027, Australia.

This study investigated whether reduced-duration downhill walking (DW) would 
confer a protective effect against muscle damage induced by a subsequent bout of 
longer duration DW performed 1 week or 4 weeks later. Healthy young adults were 
allocated to a control or one of the preconditioning exercise (PRE-1wk or 
PRE-4wk) groups (10 men and 4 women per group). PRE-1wk and PRE-4wk groups 
performed 20-min DW (-28% slope, 5 km/h, 10% body mass added to a backpack) 1 
week and 4 weeks before 40-min DW, respectively, and the control group performed 
40-min DW only. Maximal voluntary contraction (MVC) knee extension torque, 
plasma creatine kinase (CK) activity, and muscle soreness (100-mm visual analog 
scale) were measured before, immediately after, and 24, 48, and 72 h after DW, 
and the changes in these variables were compared among groups. The control group 
showed symptoms of muscle damage (e.g., prolonged decrease in MVC: -14% ± 10% at 
48 h post-DW) after 40-min DW. Changes in all variables after 40-min DW of 
PRE-1wk and PRE-4wk groups were 54%-61% smaller (P < 0.05) than the control 
group, without significant differences between PRE-1wk and PRE-4wk groups for 
MVC and plasma CK activity. Importantly, changes after the preconditioning 
exercise (20-min DW) were 67%-69% smaller (P < 0.05) than those after the 40-min 
DW of the control group. These findings suggest that 20-min DW resulting in 
minor muscle damage conferred a protective effect against subsequent 40-min DW, 
and its effect could last for more than 4 weeks.

DOI: 10.1139/apnm-2014-0390
PMID: 25693898 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Dev Med Child Neurol. 2015 Aug;57(8):762-7. doi: 10.1111/dmcn.12718. Epub
2015  Feb 19.

Survival with cerebral palsy over five decades in western Sweden.

Himmelmann K(1)(2), Sundh V(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pediatrics, Institute for Clinical Sciences at the Sahlgrenska 
Academy, University of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(2)Regional Rehabilitation Centre, Queen Silvia's Children's Hospital, 
Sahlgrenska University Hospital, Gothenburg, Sweden.
(3)Department of Geriatric Medicine, Institute of Community Medicine, University 
of Gothenburg, Gothenburg, Sweden.

Comment in
    Dev Med Child Neurol. 2015 Aug;57(8):703-4.

AIM: The life expectancy of individuals with cerebral palsy (CP) is often 
reduced compared with the general population. Long-term survival with CP is 
rarely reported. The aim of this study was to investigate survival and the 
causes of death in relation to CP type and motor and accompanying impairments 
documented in the CP register of western Sweden over five decades.
METHOD: All individuals born between 1959 and 2002 were included in the study. 
CP was classified according to Hagberg and the Surveillance of Cerebral Palsy in 
Europe (SCPE). Motor and accompanying impairments were documented. Causes of 
death were derived from the National Board of Health and Welfare, and population 
data were obtained from Statistics Sweden. Log-rank tests with Kaplan-Meier 
plots were used for statistical analyses.
RESULTS: Of the 1856 individuals (1033 males, 823 females) with CP included in 
the study, 180 (9.6%) had died by 31 December 2009. Tetraplegia, dyskinetic CP, 
severe cognitive impairment, and epilepsy were associated with decreased 
survival rates. At Gross Motor Function Classification System (GMFCS) level V, 
survival rates among individuals with spastic CP were lower than among those 
with dyskinetic CP. However, compared with the general population, there was an 
elevated death rate among individuals with CP for all age groups and CP types. 
At all ages, females with CP had a larger excess risk of death than males. 
Respiratory failure caused 53% of deaths. For individuals with hemiplegia, as in 
the general population, 20% of deaths were accidental.
INTERPRETATION: Survival rates are influenced by CP type but there is an 
elevated risk of death for individuals with any type of CP, compared with those 
without CP.

© 2015 Mac Keith Press.

DOI: 10.1111/dmcn.12718
PMID: 25694102 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Breast Cancer Res Treat. 2015 Feb;150(1):169-80. doi:
10.1007/s10549-015-3309-3.  Epub 2015 Feb 19.

Cost-effectiveness of prophylactic granulocyte colony-stimulating factor for 
febrile neutropenia in breast cancer patients receiving FEC-D.

Lee EK(1), Wong WW, Trudeau ME, Chan KK.

Author information:
(1)Division of Medical Oncology, Odette Cancer Centre, Sunnybrook Health 
Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview Avenue, Toronto, ON, M4N 3M5, Canada.

5-fluorouracil, epirubicin, cyclophosphamide → docetaxel (FEC-D) has been 
associated with higher-than-expected rates of febrile neutropenia (FN) that meet 
the current guideline threshold of 20 % for primary prophylaxis (PP) with 
granulocyte colony-stimulating factor (G-CSF). We examined the 
cost-effectiveness of FEC-D with varying strategies of G-CSF prophylaxis from 
the perspective of the public payer in Ontario, Canada. A state-transition model 
was developed to compare three strategies: FEC-D with secondary prophylaxis (SP) 
only, PP starting with the first cycle of D, and PP starting with the first 
cycle of FEC. Analysis was conducted for a hypothetical cohort of 50-year-old 
early-stage breast cancer patients undergoing adjuvant chemotherapy, at a 
10-year horizon. Results were expressed in quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) 
and 2013 Canadian dollars. Costs and benefits were discounted at 5 %. Event 
rates, costs, and utilities were derived from the literature. One-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were conducted. Using filgrastim, the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) for starting PP with the first 
cycle of D and starting PP with the first cycle of FEC, compared to using SP 
only, were $57,886/QALY and $116,186/QALY, respectively. With pegfilgrastim, the 
ICERs for the same strategies were $90,735/QALY and $149,483/QALY. Compared to 
using filgrastim SP only, starting PP with D had a 24 % chance of being 
cost-effective at a willingness-to-pay (WTP) threshold of $50,000/QALY, and a 
99 % chance at a WTP threshold of $100,000/QALY. Results were sensitive to 
FN-related parameters, such as the risk of FN per cycle with D and the 
associated mortality, but were robust to uncertainty in parameters related to 
breast cancer, such as the utilities and hazard of relapse. FEC-D with PP 
starting with the first cycle of D is most likely to be cost-effective, 
especially with increased risk of FN and mortality from FN.

DOI: 10.1007/s10549-015-3309-3
PMID: 25694355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Mol Biol Cell. 2015 Apr 15;26(8):1491-508. doi: 10.1091/mbc.E14-06-1083.
Epub  2015 Feb 18.

Drosophila CLIP-190 and mammalian CLIP-170 display reduced microtubule plus end 
association in the nervous system.

Beaven R(1), Dzhindzhev NS(2), Qu Y(1), Hahn I(1), Dajas-Bailador F(1), Ohkura 
H(2), Prokop A(3).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Life Sciences, The University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PT, 
United Kingdom.
(2)Wellcome Trust Centre for Cell Biology, Institute of Cell Biology, School of 
Biological Sciences, University of Edinburgh, Edinburgh EH9 3JR, United Kingdom.
(3)Faculty of Life Sciences, The University of Manchester, Manchester M13 9PT, 
United Kingdom Andreas.Prokop@manchester.ac.uk.

Axons act like cables, electrically wiring the nervous system. Polar bundles of 
microtubules (MTs) form their backbones and drive their growth. Plus 
end-tracking proteins (+TIPs) regulate MT growth dynamics and directionality at 
their plus ends. However, current knowledge about +TIP functions, mostly derived 
from work in vitro and in nonneuronal cells, may not necessarily apply to the 
very different context of axonal MTs. For example, the CLIP family of +TIPs are 
known MT polymerization promoters in nonneuronal cells. However, we show here 
that neither Drosophila CLIP-190 nor mammalian CLIP-170 is a prominent MT plus 
end tracker in neurons, which we propose is due to low plus end affinity of the 
CAP-Gly domain-containing N-terminus and intramolecular inhibition through the 
C-terminus. Instead, both CLIP-190 and CLIP-170 form F-actin-dependent patches 
in growth cones, mediated by binding of the coiled-coil domain to myosin-VI. 
Because our loss-of-function analyses in vivo and in culture failed to reveal 
axonal roles for CLIP-190, even in double-mutant combinations with four other 
+TIPs, we propose that CLIP-190 and -170 are not essential axon extension 
regulators. Our findings demonstrate that +TIP functions known from nonneuronal 
cells do not necessarily apply to the regulation of the very distinct MT 
networks in axons.

© 2015 Beaven et al. This article is distributed by The American Society for 
Cell Biology under license from the author(s). Two months after publication it 
is available to the public under an Attribution–Noncommercial–Share Alike 3.0 
Unported Creative Commons License 
(http://creativecommons.org/licenses/by-nc-sa/3.0).

DOI: 10.1091/mbc.E14-06-1083
PMCID: PMC4395129
PMID: 25694447 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. J Food Sci Technol. 2015 Feb;52(2):936-43. doi: 10.1007/s13197-013-1055-2.
Epub  2013 Jun 18.

Effect of microGARD on keeping quality of direct acidified Cottage cheese.

Makhal S(1), Kanawjia SK(1), Giri A(1).

Author information:
(1)Cheese and Fermented Foods Lab., Dairy Technology Division, National Dairy 
Research Institute, Karnal, 132001 Haryana India.

Direct acidified Cottage cheese could be kept well for only 10 to 12 days under 
refrigeration on account of its high moisture (~74 %) content and relatively 
high pH (~5.0). The study was, therefore, undertaken to improve the keeping 
quality of direct acidified Cottage cheese using MicroGARD. The effects of three 
different levels of MicroGARD 400 viz. 0.20, 0.35 and 0.50 % on the 
physico-chemical, microbiological and organoleptic properties were studied at 
four-day interval during storage under refrigeration (4-5 °C). Promising results 
were found using 0.50 % MicroGARD 400 for inhibiting psychrotrophs, yeasts and 
molds as well as retard the acidity development and proteolysis in Cottage 
cheese, thus extending its keeping quality. It was observed that addition of 
MicroGARD 400 at the level of 0.50 % considerably improved the flavour as well 
as the aesthetic quality of the product during storage and extended the shelf 
life of Cottage cheese from 12 to 26 days.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-013-1055-2
PMCID: PMC4325048
PMID: 25694703


736. J Food Sci Technol. 2015 Feb;52(2):1000-7. doi: 10.1007/s13197-013-1095-7.
Epub  2013 Jul 10.

The impact of UV-C irradiation on spoilage microorganisms and colour of orange 
juice.

Hakguder Taze B(1), Unluturk S(1), Buzrul S(2), Alpas H(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Engineering, Izmir Institute of Technology, Gulbahce 
Campus, 35430 Izmir, Turkey.
(2)Tobacco and Alcohol Market Regulatory Authority, (TAPDK), Ankara, Turkey.
(3)Department of Food Engineering, Middle East Technical University, Ankara, 
Turkey.

The effect of UV-C irradiation on inactivation of spoilage microorganisms and 
colour of freshly squeezed orange juice were investigated. Orange juice samples 
were intentionally fermented in order to increase the natural microflora which 
were mostly composed of yeasts and then exposed to UV-C irradiation at an 
intensity level of 1.32 mW/cm(2) and sample depth of 0.153 cm for several 
exposure times by using a collimated beam apparatus. Applied UV dose was in the 
range of 0 and 108.42 mJ/cm(2). Resistance of yeast to UV light and existence of 
suspended particles limited the effectiveness of the process. Survival data 
obtained for yeasts was either described by the Weibull or traditional 
first-order model and goodness-of-fit of these models was investigated. Weibull 
model produced a better fit to the data with higher adjusted determination 
coefficient (R(2) adj) and lower mean square error (MSE) values which were 0.99 
and 0.003, respectively. Time and UV dose of first decimal reduction were 
obtained as 5.7 min and 31 mJ/cm(2), respectively. The data suggests that 
biodosimetric studies performed by using inoculated microorganisms for assesment 
of the efficiency of UV irradiation treatment in the shelf life extension of 
juices must be carefully evaluated. UV-C irradiation had no influence on the 
colour of orange juice.

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-013-1095-7
PMCID: PMC4325051
PMID: 25694711


737. J Food Sci Technol. 2015 Feb;52(2):1200-5. doi: 10.1007/s13197-013-1035-6.
Epub  2013 Jul 12.

Shellac and Aloe vera gel based surface coating for shelf life extension of 
tomatoes.

Chauhan OP(1), Nanjappa C(1), Ashok N(1), Ravi N(1), Roopa N(1), Raju PS(1).

Author information:
(1)Defence Food Research Laboratory, Siddarthanagar, Mysore, 570 011 India.

Shellac (S) and Aloe vera gel (AG) were used to develop edible surface coatings 
for shelf-life extension of tomato fruits. The coating was prepared by 
dissolving de-waxed and bleached shellac in an alkaline aqueous medium as such 
as well as in combination with AG. Incorporation of AG in shellac coating 
improved permeability characteristics of the coating film towards oxygen and 
carbon dioxide and water vapours. The coatings when applied to tomatoes delayed 
senescence which was characterized by restricted changes in respiration and 
ethylene synthesis rates during storage. Texture of the fruits when measured in 
terms of firmness showed restricted changes as compared to untreated control. 
Similar observations were also recorded in the case of instrumental colour (L*, 
a* and b* values). The developed coatings extended shelf-life of tomatoes by 10, 
8 and 12 days in case of shellac (S), AG and composite coating (S + AG) coated 
fruits, respectively; when kept at ambient storage conditions (28 ± 2 °C).

DOI: 10.1007/s13197-013-1035-6
PMCID: PMC4325027
PMID: 25694740


738. Prostate Cancer. 2015;2015:978194. doi: 10.1155/2015/978194. Epub 2015 Jan
28.

Triptorelin in the Relief of Lower Urinary Tract Symptoms in Advanced Prostate 
Cancer Patients: The RESULT Study.

Peltier A(1), Aoun F(1), De Ruyter V(2), Cabri P(2), Van Velthoven R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Jules Bordet Institute, 1000 Brussels, Belgium.
(2)Ipsen NV, Guldensporenpark 87, 9820 Merelbeke, Belgium.

This prospective, noninterventional, open-label, multicentre, Belgian study 
assessed the prevalence of moderate to severe lower urinary tract symptoms 
(LUTS) in patients with locally advanced or metastatic prostate cancer scheduled 
to receive triptorelin therapy and its effects on LUTS were evaluated focusing 
on symptom relief and changes in quality of life (QOL) related to urinary 
symptoms (November 2006 to May 2010). Inclusion criteria were age >18 years, 
histologically confirmed advanced or metastatic prostate cancer, and life 
expectancy ≥12 months. Exclusion criteria were treatment with any LHRH analogue 
within the last 6 months or any other investigational agent within the last 3 
months before study entry. Patients who received one or more triptorelin doses 
and had one or more efficacy assessments were evaluated. In total, 325 patients 
were included with a median age of 74 years (50 to 95 years). Mean age at first 
diagnosis was 73 ± 8 years. Moderate (IPSS 8-19) to severe (IPSS ≥ 20) LUTS were 
observed in 62% of patients. Triptorelin reduced LUTS severity. This improvement 
was perceived within the first 24 weeks of treatment and was maintained after 48 
weeks. A decrease in PSA level was also observed.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/978194
PMCID: PMC4324912
PMID: 25694830


739. Ann Cardiothorac Surg. 2015 Jan;4(1):15-25. doi: 
10.3978/j.issn.2225-319X.2014.08.02.

Minimally invasive reoperative aortic valve replacement: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Phan K(1), Zhou JJ(1), Niranjan N(1), Di Eusanio M(1), Yan TD(1).

Author information:
(1)1 The Collaborative Research (CORE) Group, Macquarie University, Sydney, 
Australia ; 2 Westmead Hospital, Sydney Medical School, University of Sydney, 
Sydney, Australia ; 3 Cardiovascular Surgery Department, Sant'Orsola-Malpighi 
Hospital, Bologna University, Bologna, Italy ; 4 Department of Cardiothoracic 
Surgery, Royal Prince Alfred Hospital, University of Sydney, Sydney, Australia.

BACKGROUND: With prolonged life expectancy and more frequent use of biological 
prostheses, an increasingly higher proportion of patients are undergoing aortic 
valve replacement (AVR) after previous sternotomy. We critically appraised the 
quantity and quality of evidence to demonstrate the efficacy and safety of the 
minimally invasive (MIrAVR) versus conventional (CrAVR) approaches for 
reoperative AVR.
METHODS: Electronic searches were performed using six databases from their 
inception to April 2014. Relevant studies utilizing a MIrAVR were identified. 
Data were extracted and analyzed according to predefined clinical endpoints.
RESULTS: Four single-arm and seven comparative observational studies including a 
total of 441 MIrAVR patients were included for quality assessment, data 
extraction and analysis. In-hospital mortality ranged from 0-9.5%, and was 
similar between the MIrAVR and CrAVR groups (RR, 0.77; 95% CI, 0.39-1.54; 
P=0.46). Stroke rates ranged from 2.6-8% and were also similar between the two 
cohorts. The rates of pacemaker implantation, renal failure and reoperation for 
bleeding were not significantly different between the two groups. There were no 
reports of myocardial infarctions in the included studies. No significant 
difference in hospital stay was observed for the MIrAVR versus CrAVR group.
CONCLUSIONS: The current literature suggests that MIrAVR has similar efficacy 
and mortality outcomes compared to CrAVR without compromise to myocardial 
protection or hospitalization duration. It appears to be a valid alternative 
option for patients requiring reoperative AVR.

DOI: 10.3978/j.issn.2225-319X.2014.08.02
PMCID: PMC4311170
PMID: 25694972


740. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2015 Mar;36(3):265-72. doi:
10.1017/ice.2014.60.

Is procalcitonin-guided antimicrobial use cost-effective in adult patients with 
suspected bacterial infection and sepsis?

Harrison M(1), Collins CD(1).

Author information:
(1)1Department of Pharmacy Services,St. Joseph Mercy Health System,Ann 
Arbor,Michigan.

OBJECTIVE: Procalcitonin has emerged as a promising biomarker of bacterial 
infection. Published literature demonstrates that use of procalcitonin testing 
and an associated treatment pathway reduces duration of antibiotic therapy 
without impacting mortality. The objective of this study was to determine the 
financial impact of utilizing a procalcitonin-guided treatment algorithm in 
hospitalized patients with sepsis.
DESIGN: Cost-minimization and cost-utility analysis.
PATIENTS: Hypothetical cohort of adult ICU patients with suspected bacterial 
infection and sepsis.
METHODS: Utilizing published clinical and economic data, a decision analytic 
model was developed from the U.S. hospital perspective. Effectiveness and 
utility measures were defined using cost-per-clinical episode and cost per 
quality-adjusted life years (QALYs). Upper and lower sensitivity ranges were 
determined for all inputs. Univariate and probabilistic sensitivity analyses 
assessed the robustness of our model and variables. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios (ICERs) were calculated and compared to predetermined 
willingness-to-pay thresholds.
RESULTS: Base-case results predicted the use of a procalcitonin-guided treatment 
algorithm dominated standard care with improved quality (0.0002 QALYs) and 
decreased overall treatment costs ($65). The model was sensitive to a number of 
key variables that had the potential to impact results, including algorithm 
adherence (<42.3%), number and cost of procalcitonin tests ordered (≥9 and 
>$46), days of antimicrobial reduction (<1.6 d), incidence of nephrotoxicity and 
rate of nephrotoxicity reduction.
CONCLUSION: The combination of procalcitonin testing with an evidence-based 
treatment algorithm may improve patients' quality of life while decreasing costs 
in ICU patients with suspected bacterial infection and sepsis; however, results 
were highly dependent on a number of variables and assumptions.

DOI: 10.1017/ice.2014.60
PMID: 25695167 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. Infect Control Hosp Epidemiol. 2015 Mar;36(3):320-8. doi:
10.1017/ice.2014.69.

In-hospital transfer is a risk factor for invasive filamentous fungal infection 
among hospitalized patients with hematological malignancies: a matched 
case-control study.

Gayet-Ageron A(1), Iten A(1), van Delden C(2), Farquet N(1), Masouridi-Levrat 
S(3), Von Dach E(1), Chalandon Y(3), Pittet D(1).

Author information:
(1)1Infection Control Program and WHO Collaborating Centre on Patient Safety, 
University of Geneva Hospitals and Faculty of Medicine,Geneva,Switzerland.
(2)3Division of Infectious Diseases, University of Geneva Hospitals and Faculty 
of Medicine,Geneva,Switzerland.
(3)4Division of Hematology,University of Geneva Hospitals and Faculty of 
Medicine,Geneva,Switzerland.

OBJECTIVE: Immunocompromised patients now benefit from a longer life expectancy 
due to advanced medical techniques, but they are also weakened by aggressive 
treatment approaches and are at high risk for invasive fungal disease. We 
determined risk factors associated with an outbreak of invasive filamentous 
fungal infection (IFFI) among hospitalized hemato-oncological patients.
METHODS: A retrospective, matched, case-control study was conducted between 
January 1, 2009, and April 31, 2011, including 29 cases (6 proven, 8 probable, 
and 15 possible) of IFFI and 102 matched control patients hospitalized during 
the same time period. Control patients were identified from the hospital 
electronic database. Conditional logistic regression was performed to identify 
independent risk factors for IFFI.
RESULTS: Overall mortality associated with IFFI was 20.7% (8.0%-39.7%). 
Myelodysplastic syndrome was associated with a higher risk for IFFI compared to 
chronic hematological malignancies. After adjustment for major risk factors and 
confounders, >5 patient transfers outside the protected environment of the 
hematology ward increased the IFFI risk by 6.1-fold. The risk increased by 
6.7-fold when transfers were performed during neutropenia.
CONCLUSION: This IFFI outbreak was characterized by a strong association with 
exposure to the unprotected environment outside the hematology ward during 
patient transfer. The independent associations of a high number of transfers 
with the presence of neutropenia suggest that affected patients were probably 
not sufficiently protected during transport in the corridors. Our study 
highlights that a heightened awareness of the need for preventive measures 
during the entire care process of at-risk patients should be promoted among 
healthcare workers.

DOI: 10.1017/ice.2014.69
PMID: 25695174 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. Neth Heart J. 2003 Jan;11(1):5-10.

Decision-making in aortic valve replacement: bileaflet mechanical valves versus 
stented bioprostheses.

Takkenberg JJ, Puvimanasinghe JP, van Herwerden LA, Eijkemans MJ, Steyerberg EW, 
Habbema JD, Bogers AJ.

BACKGROUND: Valve prosthesis selection for patients who require aortic valve 
replacement is dependent on several interrelated factors. Often, more than one 
valve type seems suitable for the individual patient and selection of a valve 
type may be difficult.
METHODS: The application of an evidence-based microsimulation model as an 
objective tool to support the choice between a bileaflet mechanical prosthesis 
and a stented bioprosthesis in the individual patient is described. In addition, 
a pilot study investigating the effect of knowledge gained by this 
microsimulation model on prosthetic valve choice by cardiothoracic surgeons and 
cardiologists is presented for two hypothetical patients.
RESULTS: After implantation of a mechanical valve, bleeding and thromboembolism 
are common, especially in the elderly. After implantation of a bioprosthesis, 
reoperation for structural failure is the most important valve-related 
complication, especially in younger patients. Life expectancy after aortic valve 
replacement is markedly reduced compared with the general Dutch age-matched 
population, regardless of the type of valve implanted. In the pilot study 
knowledge gained by the microsimulation model caused a shift in the preference 
towards a mechanical prosthesis in clinical experts.
CONCLUSION: Microsimulation incorporating current epidemiological data provides 
an objective tool to estimate prognosis for individual patients after aortic 
valve replacement with different valve prostheses. It may develop towards a 
useful clinical decision support system for valve prosthesis selection.

PMCID: PMC2499837
PMID: 25696138


743. Neth Heart J. 2003 Dec;11(12):514-518.

Aortic coarctation: the need for lifelong surveillance.

Vriend JW, Mulder BJ.

Survival of patients with aortic coarctation improved dramatically after 
surgical repair became available and the number of patients who undergo surgery 
and reach adulthood is steadily increasing. However, life expectancy is still 
not as normal as in unaffected peers. Cardiovascular complications are frequent 
and require indefinite follow-up. Concern falls chiefly into five categories: 
recoarctation, endocarditis, stenotic and/or incompetent coexisting bicuspid 
aortic valve, aortic aneurysm formation and systemic hypertension. In this 
review, these complications, with particular reference to late hypertension, are 
discussed and strategies for the clinical management of postcoarctectomy 
patients are described.

PMCID: PMC2499963
PMID: 25696173


744. Neth Heart J. 2005 Nov;13(11):393-400.

Cost-effectiveness of eplerenone plus standard treatment compared with standard 
treatment in patients with myocardial infarction complicated by left ventricular 
systolic dysfunction and heart failure in the Netherlands.

van Genugten ML, Weintraub WS, Zhang Z, Voors AA.

AIMS: Following the results of the EPHESUS study in patients with heart failure 
after myocardial infarction, a cost-effectiveness analysis was undertaken from a 
Dutch societal perspective to evaluate the lifetime benefits and costs of 
eplerenone as add-on to standard treatment.
METHODS: Life-years gained in the eplerenone arm during the trial period were 
extrapolated to lifetime life-years gained using three sources of life 
expectancy data (Framingham Heart Study, Saskatchewan Health Database and 
Worcester Heart Attack Registry). Resource use measured included direct medical 
costs of hospitalisation, medications including eplerenone, outpatient 
diagnostic tests and procedures, and emergency room visits. Incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios were calculated for life-years gained and 
quality-adjusted life-years gained.
RESULTS: Eplerenone prolonged lifetime survival by five weeks at an additional 
cost of €803. The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was about €8000 per 
life-year gained, well below the only published Dutch benchmark for 
cost-effectiveness of €18,000. Probabilistic sensitivity analyses showed the 
results to be robust when varying the discount rate applied to benefits and 
costs, the hospitalisation costs, and the source of life expectancy data used.
CONCLUSION: Treatment with adjunctive eplerenone is effective in preventing 
deaths and prolonging life.

PMCID: PMC2497358
PMID: 25696430


745. Neth Heart J. 2006 Mar;14(3):100-105.

Unexplained left ventricular hypertrophy: consider a diagnosis of Fabry's 
disease.

Linthorst GE, Vedder AC, Bouma BJ, Dekker LR, Hollak CE.

Lysosomal storage disorders are a group of disorders characterised by the 
deficiency of a specific lysosomal hydrolase. These diseases are rare, with only 
a few hundred patients in the Netherlands. Fabry's disease, an X-linked 
lysosomal storage disorder, is caused by a deficiency of the lysosomal enzyme 
α-galactosidase A which results in, among other things, left ventricular 
hypertrophy, renal failure and cerebrovascular events. Patients with Fabry's 
disease, especially males, have a decreased life expectancy. Recent studies have 
shown that Fabry's disease may be much more common among patients with left 
ventricular hypertrophy (LVH) than previously thought. Up to 7% of male patients 
with left ventricular hypertrophy and up to 12% of female patients with 
unexplained LVH were found to suffer from Fabry's disease. Thus, Fabry's disease 
should be considered in patients with unexplained LVH. This case report 
summarises the main features of the disease. In addition recent developments 
concerning prevalence, diagnosis and the current available treatments are 
discussed and an algorithm on who and how to screen for Fabry's disease is 
presented.

PMCID: PMC2557271
PMID: 25696603


746. J Pediatr Urol. 2015 Feb;11(1):34.e1-5. doi: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2014.11.010.
Epub  2015 Feb 3.

Treatment alternatives for urinary system stone disease in preschool aged 
children: results of 616 cases.

Sen H(1), Seckiner I(2), Bayrak O(3), Erturhan S(4), Demirbağ A(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Gaziantep University, Gaziantep, Turkey. Electronic 
address: drhaluksen@gmail.com.
(2)Department of Urology, Gaziantep University, Gaziantep, Turkey. Electronic 
address: iseckiner@yahoo.com.
(3)Department of Urology, Gaziantep University, Gaziantep, Turkey. Electronic 
address: Dromerbayrak@yahoo.com.
(4)Department of Urology, Gaziantep University, Gaziantep, Turkey. Electronic 
address: mserturhan@yahoo.com.
(5)Department of Urology, Gaziantep University, Gaziantep, Turkey. Electronic 
address: asafdemirbag@hotmail.com.

INTRODUCTION: The treatment of stone disease is mostly similar in those adult 
and children. The standard treatment procedures are as follows: extracorporeal 
shock wave lithotripsy (ESWL), ureterorenoscopy (URS), percutaneous 
nephrolithotomy (PCNL), and laparoscopic surgery in selected cases. Open surgery 
(OS) is another option particularly in such cases with anatomic abnormalities of 
urinary tract.
OBJECTIVE: The present study aims to provide comparative results of stone 
removal procedures in preschool aged patients who were diagnosed with urinary 
system stone disease.
STUDY DESIGN: The retrospective data of 616 pediatric preschool patients 
consulted with urinary system stone disease between January 2009 and July 2013 
were evaluated. All patients were evaluated with Kidney-Ureter-Bladder (KUB) 
Xray and abdomino-pelvic ultrasound. Intravenous pyelography, unenhanced 
computed tomography (CT), and renal scintigraphy were performed when needed. 
Patients were categorized according to the procedures as: Group ESWL, Group URS, 
Group PNL, Group micro-PNL and Group OS. Following the procedures, opaque 
residual stones were evaluated with KUB Xray, and non-opaque residual stones 
were evaluated with unenhanced CT.
RESULTS: In groups (ESWL, URS, PNL, micro-PNL, OS), the stone-free rate was 68%, 
66%, 85%, 100% and 94 %, respectively. The stone analysis were observed as, 
calcium oxalate in 377 patients (61.2%), uric acid in 106 patients (17.2%), 
infection stone in 73 patients (11.8 %), and cysteine in 60 patients (9.7%). 
There was no significant difference in stone analysis between the groups (p > 
0.05) (Table).
DISCUSSION: Minimally invasive procedures are frequently preferred in the 
pediatric age urinary system stone disease. These procedures are ESWL, PCNL, and 
ureteroscopy [10,11]. Open surgery is reserved only for rare cases [12]. 
Similarly the current literature, 18 (2.9%) patients had anatomical anomaly and 
had high complex stone burden were treated with open surgery in our study. ESWL 
is a preferred treatment method for pediatric urolithiasis patients with a stone 
size <20 mm, and the rate of stone-free after ESWL ranges between 57 and 92% 
[13]. In a study showed the effect of stone size on the success rate in ESWL, 
the success rate was 91% for stones <10 mm, and 75% for stones >10 mm [15]. In 
the present study, stone-free rate was noted as 68% on 15 mm or lower stone 
size. PNL is commonly used to treat stone disease in preschool children [18-20]. 
In the beginning, urologists hesitated to use instruments suited for adults in 
case of pediatric kidneys. While some authors accept a cut-off value of 24 F for 
tract dilatation in the pediatric age, Desai et al. recommended a threshold 
value <22 F [19,21]. In our study, we used adult PNL instruments in the early 
period, whereas mini-PERC was performed in the later years. The success rate in 
PNL group was found as 85%. In recent years, the micro-PNL procedure has been 
developed to reduce/prevent the complications of standard PNL. In our study, the 
success rate was calculated as 100% with micro-PNL. This study has certain 
limitations. The major limitation of our study is its retrospective nature. In 
addition, sample size of micro-PNL group is fewer than other groups.
CONCLUSION: The goal of kidney stone treatment is to achieve minimal kidney 
damage and a high success rate. Thus, the procedures are important in the 
pediatric age group where life expectancy is high, and particularly in the 
preschool age group.

Copyright © 2015 Journal of Pediatric Urology Company. Published by Elsevier 
Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.jpurol.2014.11.010
PMID: 25697981 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


747. Ambio. 2015 Nov;44(7):647-52. doi: 10.1007/s13280-015-0639-7. Epub 2015 Feb
20.

Practices, perceptions, and implications of fertilizer use in East-Central 
China.

Yang X(1), Fang S(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Environmental Science and Engineering, Fudan University, 
Shanghai, 200433, China. xiaoying@fudan.edu.cn.
(2)College of Fisheries and Life Science, Shanghai Ocean University, Shanghai, 
201306, China. bsfang@fudan.edu.cn.

Face-to-face interviews (n = 553) were conducted in five counties in 
East-Central China to study farmers' fertilizer application behaviors, 
decision-making processes, attitudes towards adopting better fertilizer 
application technologies, and environmental consciousness. The survey results 
revealed widespread fertilizer misapplication and highly variable application 
behaviors in the study regions. The lack of scientific knowledge on fertilizers 
and the absence of guidance from agricultural extension services have forced the 
farmers to rely on personal judgment and advice from fertilizer dealers and 
friends to make decisions in fertilizer application. Overall, farmers have been 
idiosyncratic in fertilizer application with limited adoption of better 
fertilizer application technologies. There are great potentials for reducing 
pollutant load from agricultural runoff through promoting scientific fertilizer 
application in the regions. However, farmers' diverse preferences over 
agricultural extension programs necessitate an integrated approach emphasizing 
farmer involvement throughout the development of such programs for promoting 
better fertilizer application practices.

DOI: 10.1007/s13280-015-0639-7
PMCID: PMC4591225
PMID: 25698058 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2015 Apr;49(4):420-5. doi:
10.1016/j.ejvs.2014.12.027.  Epub 2015 Feb 16.

The benefit of revascularization in nonagenarians with lower limb ischemia is 
limited by high mortality.

Saarinen E(1), Vuorisalo S(2), Kauhanen P(2), Albäck A(2), Venermo M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Helsinki and Helsinki 
University Hospital, Finland. Electronic address: eva.saarinen@hus.fi.
(2)Department of Vascular Surgery, University of Helsinki and Helsinki 
University Hospital, Finland.

Comment in
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2015 Oct;50(4):539.
    Eur J Vasc Endovasc Surg. 2015 Oct;50(4):538-9.

OBJECTIVE/BACKGROUND: Owing to the increased life expectancy of the population 
the number of very old patients referred to vascular surgical units has 
increased. Advanced age is a well known risk factor in patients undergoing 
surgical interventions for lower limb ischemia. However, amputation performed on 
an elderly person living independently will lead to permanent institutional 
care. The aim of this study was to evaluate the outcome of patients aged 90 
years and older with lower limb ischemia undergoing surgical or endovascular 
revascularization.
METHODS: Two hundred and thirty-three nonagenarians with either chronic critical 
