Cost-effectiveness of adding ezetimibe to atorvastatin vs switching to 
rosuvastatin therapy in Portugal.

Laires PA(1), Ejzykowicz F(2), Hsu TY(2), Ambegaonkar B(2), Davies G(2).

Author information:
(1)a a Merck, Sharp & Dohme , Oeiras , Portugal.
(2)b b Merck & Co. Inc. , Whitehouse Station , NJ , USA.

BACKGROUND: Statin monotherapy is the mainstay of low-density lipoprotein 
cholesterol (LDL-C) management for high cardiovascular risk patients in 
Portugal; however, several therapeutic options are available and predicted to 
have different clinical and economic impacts. The aim of this study was to 
evaluate the cost-effectiveness of adding ezetimibe 10 mg (EZ10) to atorvastatin 
10 or 20 mg (A10/20) vs switching to rosuvastatin 10 or 20 mg (R10/20) in 
Portuguese patients with coronary heart disease (CHD) and/or diabetes who are 
currently above the LDL-C goal.
METHODS: A Markov model was used to describe CHD disease progression and the 
lifetime costs and utilities associated with each disease state were used to 
estimate the gains in life-years and quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), as 
well as the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER), of the two treatment 
regimens. Model inputs, such as age, gender, and prevalence of cardiovascular 
risk factors of the dyslipidemic Portuguese patients were obtained from the 
Portuguese cohort of the Dyslipidemia International Study (DYSIS). The efficacy 
of each treatment regimen, the cost of drugs and of treating CHD events, and the 
utilities for each disease state were derived from published sources.
RESULTS: The estimated lifetime discounted number of QALYs gained by patients 
treated with A10/20 was 8.70, while in those switching to R10/20 it was 8.81 and 
in those adding EZ10 it was 8.93. Discounted total health costs were estimated 
to be €11,131 for A10/20, but €14,511 and €16,571 for R10/20 and A10/20 + EZ10, 
respectively. The ICER of adding ezetimibe vs switching to rosuvastatin was 
€16,465/QALY. Based on the Portuguese cost-effectiveness willingness-to-pay 
threshold of €30,000/QALY, adding ezetimibe vs switching to rosuvastatin would 
be a cost-effective use of resources in Portugal. Sensitivity analyses in 
patients with differing clinical histories (CHD or diabetes or both) yielded 
similar values, with no ICER over €30,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: From the perspective of the National Health Service, prescribing 
ezetimibe to high cardiovascular risk patients being treated with atorvastatin 
vs switching them to rosuvastatin is projected to be a cost-effective use of 
resources in Portugal.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1031794
PMID: 25788039 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


37. Eur Arch Paediatr Dent. 2015 Oct;16(5):391-6. doi: 10.1007/s40368-015-0183-y.
 Epub 2015 Mar 19.

Clinical success and longevity of band and loop compared to crown and loop space 
maintainers.

Qudeimat MA(1), Sasa IS(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental and Preventive Sciences, Faculty of Dentistry, 
Kuwait University, P.O. Box 24923, Safat, 13110, Kuwait, Kuwait. 
mqudeimat@hsc.edu.kw.
(2)Department of Developmental Dentistry, University of Texas Health Science 
Centre, San Antonio, TX, USA.

AIM: To prospectively evaluate the success and survival rates of band and loop 
(B&L) compared to crown and loop (C&L) space maintainers.
METHODS: Thirty-six children were divided into two groups (18 B&Ls and 18 C&Ls) 
matched for gender, age and the extracted tooth. For the study group, all 
clinical procedures were performed by the same paediatric dentist. Regular 
follow-up appointments were scheduled at 4-6 months. Comparisons in survival 
time and variables which might have affected the mean survival time were tested 
using Log rank and Chi-square tests.
RESULTS: A total of 16 girls and 20 boys (3.4-6.3 years old) were included. The 
overall failure rate was 53 %. For B&Ls, the failure rate was 83 % compared to 
22 % for C&Ls. The main reason for failure of B&Ls was decementation (87 %), 
while for C&Ls, it was solder breakage (75 %). The mean survival time for B&Ls 
was 18.8 months, and for C&L, it was 40.4 months (p < 0.001).
CONCLUSIONS: The failure rate and mean survival time for C&Ls were clinically 
and statistically significantly better than those for B&Ls. Depending on the 
clinical presentation of the abutment tooth and the intended life expectancy of 
the space maintainer among other factors, it is recommended that, where a space 
maintainer is indicated in the primary dentition, preference is given to C&L 
over B&L space maintainers.

DOI: 10.1007/s40368-015-0183-y
PMID: 25788173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


38. Oncol Lett. 2015 Apr;9(4):1851-1856. doi: 10.3892/ol.2015.2911. Epub 2015 Jan
 28.

Immunization with mutant HPV16 E7 protein inhibits the growth of TC-1 cells in 
tumor-bearing mice.

Li YL(1), Ma ZL(2), Zhao Y(3), Zhang J(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200444, P.R. China ; 
Institute of Molecular Medicine, Nanjing University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210093, 
P.R. China.
(2)School of Life Sciences, Shanghai University, Shanghai 200444, P.R. China.
(3)Institute of Molecular Medicine, Nanjing University, Nanjing, Jiangsu 210093, 
P.R. China.

Two human papillomavirus (HPV) 16 oncogenic proteins, E6 and E7, are 
co-expressed in the majority of HPV16-induced cervical cancer cells. Thus, the 
E6 and E7 proteins are good targets for developing therapeutic vaccines for 
cervical cancer. In the present study, immunization with the mutant 
non-transforming HPV16 E7 (mE7) protein was demonstrated to inhibit the growth 
of TC-1 cells in the TC-1 mouse model. The HPV16 mE7 gene was amplified by 
splicing overlap extension polymerase chain reaction using pET-28a(+)-E7 as a 
template, and the gene was cloned into pET-28a(+) to form pET-28a(+)-mE7. 
Compared with the E7 protein, mE7 lacks amino acid residues 94-98, and at 
residue 24, there is a Cys to Gly substitution. pET-28a(+)-mE7 was then 
introduced into Escherichia coli Rosetta. The expression of mE7 was induced by 
isopropyl β-D-1-thiogalactopyranoside. The mE7 protein was purified using Ni-NTA 
agarose and detected by SDS-PAGE and western blot analysis. In the tumor 
prevention model, no tumor was detected in the mice vaccinated with the mE7 
protein. After 40 days, the tumor-free mice and control mice were challenged 
with 2×105 TC-1 cells. All control mice developed tumors six days later, but mE7 
immunized mice were tumor free until 90 days. In the tumor therapy model, the 
TC-1 cells were initially injected subcutaneously, and the mice were 
subsequently vaccinated. Vaccination against the mE7 protein may significantly 
inhibit TC-1 cell growth compared to the control. These results demonstrated 
that immunization with the HPV16 mE7 protein elicited a long-term protective 
immunity against TC-1 tumor growth and generated a significant inhibition of 
TC-1 growth in a TC-1 mouse model.

DOI: 10.3892/ol.2015.2911
PMCID: PMC4356387
PMID: 25789055


39. World J Diabetes. 2015 Mar 15;6(2):304-11. doi: 10.4239/wjd.v6.i2.304.

Economic development and diabetes prevalence in MENA countries: Egypt and Saudi 
Arabia comparison.

Sherif S(1), Sumpio BE(1).

Author information:
(1)Shalaby Sherif, Bauer E Sumpio, Section of Vascular Surgery, Yale School of 
Medicine, New Haven, CT 06510, United States.

Diabetes is increasing in epidemic proportions globally, exhibiting the most 
striking increase in third world countries with emerging economies. This 
phenomena is particularly evident in the Middle East and North Africa (MENA) 
region, which has the highest prevalence of diabetes in adults. The most 
concerning indirect cost of diabetes is the missed work by the adult population 
coupled with the economic burden of loss of productivity. The major drivers of 
this epidemic are the demographic changes with increased life expectancy and 
lifestyle changes due to rapid urbanization and industrialization. Our focus is 
to compare MENA region countries, particularly Egypt and Saudi Arabia, in terms 
of their economic development, labor force diversity and the prevalence of 
diabetes.

DOI: 10.4239/wjd.v6.i2.304
PMCID: PMC4360423
PMID: 25789111


40. Surg Neurol Int. 2015 Mar 5;6:35. doi: 10.4103/2152-7806.152733. eCollection 
2015.

Bioethics and why I hope to live beyond age 75 attaining wisdom!: A rebuttal to 
Dr. Ezekiel Emanuel's 75 age limit.

Faria MA Jr(1).

Author information:
(1)Clinical Professor of Neurosurgery (ret.) and Adjunct Professor of Medical 
History (ret.), Mercer University School of Medicine; President, 
www.haciendapub.com , Macon, Georgia, USA.

American bioethicists have been providing persuasive arguments for rationing 
medical care via the theory of the necessary "rational allocation of finite 
health care resources." Anticipating the need for the drastic rationing of 
medical care in the U.S. with the implementation of ObamaCare and assisted by 
various sectors of organized medicine in league with the State, bioethicists 
have deduced that more ingenious approaches are necessary to convince Americans 
who have been accustomed to receiving the best medical care that third-party 
payers are willing to pay for. It is in this context that the individual-based, 
patient-oriented ethics of Hippocrates, including his fundamental dictum, "First 
Do No Harm," have to be supplanted by the utilitarian approach promoted by the 
bioethicists. And today's foremost proponent of the bioethics movement is Dr. 
Ezekiel Emanuel. This editorial proposes a rational rebuttal to Dr. Emanuel's 
proposal to limit life expectancy to age 75 as a rational paradigm to a better 
life.

DOI: 10.4103/2152-7806.152733
PMCID: PMC4360549
PMID: 25789197


41. Phys Med Biol. 2015 Apr 7;60(7):3003-11. doi: 10.1088/0031-9155/60/7/3003.
Epub  2015 Mar 19.

Demeclocycline as a contrast agent for detecting brain neoplasms using confocal 
microscopy.

Wirth D(1), Smith TW, Moser R, Yaroslavsky AN.

Author information:
(1)Department of Physics and Applied Physics, University of Massachusetts, 
Lowell 1 University Ave. Lowell, MA 01854, USA.

Complete resection of brain tumors improves life expectancy and quality. Thus, 
there is a strong need for high-resolution detection and microscopically 
controlled removal of brain neoplasms. The goal of this study was to test 
demeclocycline as a contrast enhancer for the intraoperative detection of brain 
tumors. We have imaged benign and cancerous brain tumors using multimodal 
confocal microscopy. The tumors investigated included pituitary adenoma, 
meningiomas, glioblastomas, and metastatic brain cancers. Freshly excised brain 
tissues were stained in 0.75 mg ml(-1) aqueous solution of demeclocyline. 
Reflectance images were acquired at 402 nm. Fluorescence signals were excited at 
402 nm and registered between 500 and 540 nm. After imaging, histological 
sections were processed from the imaged specimens and compared to the optical 
images. Fluorescence images highlighted normal and cancerous brain cells, while 
reflectance images emphasized the morphology of connective tissue. The optical 
and histological images were in accordance with each other for all types of 
tumors investigated. Demeclocyline shows promise as a contrast agent for 
intraoperative detection of brain tumors.

DOI: 10.1088/0031-9155/60/7/3003
PMID: 25790138 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


42. Cancers (Basel). 2015 Mar 17;7(1):450-9. doi: 10.3390/cancers7010450.

Cancer in Women over 50 Years of Age: A Focus on Smoking.

Baccaro LF(1), Conde DM(2), Costa-Paiva L(3), de Souza Santos Machado V(4), 
Pinto-Neto AM(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Gynecology, State University of Campinas, Rua Alexander 
Fleming, 101, Cidade Universitária Zeferino Vaz, Campinas, São Paulo 13.083-881, 
Brazil. luiz.baccaro@gmail.com.
(2)Breast Clinic, Hospital for Maternal and Child Healthcare, Goiânia, Goiás 
74.125-120, Brazil. delioconde@gmail.com.
(3)Department of Gynecology, State University of Campinas, Campinas, São Paulo 
13.083-881, Brazil.
(4)Department of Gynecology, State University of Campinas, Campinas, São Paulo 
13.083-881, Brazil. vssm80@gmail.com.

The increase in life expectancy worldwide has resulted in a greater prevalence 
of chronic non-communicable diseases. This study aims to evaluate the prevalence 
and factors associated with the occurrence of cancer among Brazilian women over 
the age of 50. A cross-sectional study with 622 women over the age of 50 was 
performed using a population survey. The outcome variable was the occurrence of 
a malignant tumor in any location. The independent variables were 
sociodemographic characteristics, self-perception of health, health-related 
habits and morbidities. Statistical analysis was carried out using the 
chi-square test and Poisson regression. The mean age of the women was 64.1 
years. The prevalence of cancer was 6.8%. The main sites of occurrence of 
malignant tumors were the breast (31.9%), colorectal (12.7%) and skin (12.7%). 
In the final statistical model, the only factor associated with cancer was 
smoking > 15 cigarettes/day either currently or in the past: PR 2.03 (95% CI 
1.06-3.89). The results have improved understanding of the prevalence and 
factors associated with cancer in Brazilian women aged 50 years or more. They 
should be encouraged to maintain a healthy lifestyle and pay particular 
attention to modifiable risk factors such as smoking.

DOI: 10.3390/cancers7010450
PMCID: PMC4381268
PMID: 25790469


43. FEMS Microbiol Lett. 2015 Jan;362(1):1-5. doi: 10.1093/femsle/fnu020. Epub
2014  Dec 4.

The flagellar adenylate kinases of Trypanosoma cruzi.

Camara Mde L(1), Bouvier LA(1), Miranda MR(2), Pereira CA(3).

Author information:
(1)Instituto de Investigaciones Biotecnológicas (IIB-INTECH-UNSAM), (1650) 
Buenos Aires, Argentina.
(2)Laboratorio de Biología Molecular de Trypanosoma cruzi (LBMTC), Instituto de 
Investigaciones Médicas Alfredo Lanari, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones 
Científicas y Técnicas and Universidad de Buenos Aires, (1427) Buenos Aires, 
Argentina.
(3)Laboratorio de Biología Molecular de Trypanosoma cruzi (LBMTC), Instituto de 
Investigaciones Médicas Alfredo Lanari, Consejo Nacional de Investigaciones 
Científicas y Técnicas and Universidad de Buenos Aires, (1427) Buenos Aires, 
Argentina cpereira@retina.ar.

Adenylate kinases (ADK) are key enzymes involved in cell energy management. 
Trypanosomatids present the highest number of variants in a single cell in 
comparison with the rest of the living organisms. In this work, we characterized 
two flagellar ADKs from Trypanosoma cruzi, called TcADK1 and TcADK4, which are 
also located in the cell cytosol. Interestingly, TcADK1 presents a 
stage-specific expression. This variant was detected in epimastigotes cells, and 
was completely absent in trypomastigotes and amastigotes, while TcADK4 is 
present in the major life cycle stages of T. cruzi. Both variants are also 
regulated, in opposite ways, along the parasite growth curve suggesting that 
their expression depends on the intra- and extracellular conditions. Both, 
TcADK1 and TcADK4 present N-terminal extension that could be responsible for 
their subcellular localization. The presence of ADK variants in the flagellum 
would be critical for the provision of energy in a process of high ATP 
consumption such as cell motility.

© The Author 2014. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of FEMS. All 
rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/femsle/fnu020
PMID: 25790498 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


44. Klin Med (Mosk). 2014;92(8):46-9.

[The level of neurospecific proteins in patients with type 1 diabetes mellitus 
and cognitive disorders].

[Article in Russian]

Novoselova MV, Samoilova IuG, Zhukova NG.

Type I diabetes mellitus (DM1) is a widespread metabolic disease ofsocial 
significance due to early disability in youngpatients and reduced life 
expectancy. One of the DMI complications is CNS lesions resulting in cognitive 
dysfunction mediated through metabolic disorders. This condition can be partly 
or completely reversed if diagnosed and treated'at an early stage. The aim of 
this study was to determine the level ofneurospecific proteins in 58 patients 
aged 16-30years with type I diabetes mellitus and cognitive disorders in 
comparison with 29 healthy controls of simnilar age. All the participants 
underwent neuropsychological testing based on the Montreal scale for rapid 
screening of cognitive disorders (MoCA-test). Protein S100, glial fibrillary 
acidic protein, and myelin basic protein served as early markers of cognitive 
dysfunction. The study revealed an enhanced level of neurospecific proteins that 
correlated with hyperglycemia and cognitive deficit (MoCA score 26).

PMID: 25790697 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


45. Ann Epidemiol. 2015 May;25(5):323-8. doi: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2015.01.017.
Epub  2015 Feb 7.

Educational attainment and longevity: results from the REGARDS U.S. national 
cohort study of blacks and whites.

Kaplan RM(1), Howard VJ(2), Safford MM(3), Howard G(4).

Author information:
(1)Office of Behavioral and Social Sciences Research, National Institutes of 
Health, Bethesda, MD. Electronic address: rmkaplan@ucla.edu.
(2)Department of Epidemiology, University of Alabama at Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL.
(3)Department of Medicine, University of Alabama Birmingham, Birmingham, AL.
(4)Department of Biostatistics, University of Alabama Birmingham, Birmingham, 
AL.

BACKGROUND: Educational attainment may be an important determinant of life 
expectancy. However, few studies have prospectively evaluated the relationship 
between educational attainment and life expectancy using adjustments for other 
social, behavioral, and biological factors.
METHOD: The data were from the REasons for Geographic and Racial Differences in 
Stroke study that enrolled 30,239 black and white adults (≥45 years) between 
2003 and 2007. Demographic and cardiovascular risk information was collected and 
participants were followed for health outcomes. Educational attainment was 
categorized as less than high school education, high school graduate, some 
college, or college graduate. Proportional hazards analysis was used to 
characterize survival by level of education.
RESULTS: Educational attainment and follow-up data were available on 29,657 
(98%) of the participants. Over 6.3 years of follow-up, 3673 participants died. 
There was a monotonically increasing risk of death with lower levels of 
educational attainment. The same monotonic relationship held with adjustments 
for age, race, sex, cardiovascular risk factors, and health behaviors. The 
unadjusted hazard ratio for those without a high school education in comparison 
with college graduates was 2.89 (95% CI = 2.64-3.18). Although adjustment for 
income, health behaviors, and cardiovascular risk factors attenuated the 
relationship, the same consistent pattern was observed after adjustment. The 
relationship between educational attainment and longevity was similar for black 
and white participants. The monotonic relationship between educational 
attainment and longevity was observed for all age groups, except for those aged 
85 years or more.
CONCLUSIONS: Educational attainment is a significant predictor of longevity. 
Other factors including age, race, income, health behaviors, and cardiovascular 
risk factors only partially explain the relationship.

Published by Elsevier Inc.

DOI: 10.1016/j.annepidem.2015.01.017
PMCID: PMC4631606
PMID: 25791026 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


46. Ther Umsch. 2015 Apr;72(4):247-53. doi: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000672.

[Judgment capacity from the legal viewpoint - especially the evaluation by a 
notary public].

[Article in German; Abstract available in German from the publisher]

Wolf S(1), Nuspliger I(1).

Author information:
(1)Zivilistisches Seminar der Universität Bern.

The issue of the capacity of judgement or the lack thereof and the validity of 
legal actions performed in such conditions will become more and more important 
considering the longer life expectancy and the increasing number of people with 
diseases like dementia. This paper will discuss the capacity of judgement from a 
legal point of view. According to article 16 of the swiss civil code a person is 
capable of judgement within the meaning of the law if he or she does not lack 
the capacity to act rationally by virtue of being under age or because of a 
mental disability, mental disorder, intoxication or similar circumstances. 
Therefore, the incapacity of judgement requires the existence of one of the 
aforementioned conditions (objective aspect) which have to result in the lack of 
capacity to act rationally (subjective aspect). The capacity of judgement is 
relative and must always be evaluated within a given context, i. e. the capacity 
of judgement has to be confirmed or refuted for a specific transaction at a 
specific time. By law, the capacity of judgement is assumed (statutory 
presumption) and the opposite has to be proven. As part of a notarial procedure 
the capacity of judgement has to be verified by the notary public, although only 
in a brief and limited manner. If the capacity of judgement is disputed, only 
the competent civil judge has the power to render a legally binding judgement.

Publisher: Das Problem der Urteilsfähigkeit bzw. Urteilsunfähigkeit und der in 
diesem Zustand abgeschlossenen Rechtsgeschäfte nimmt angesichts der erhöhten 
Lebenserwartung und der steigenden Zahl von Demenzerkrankungen zu. Im 
vorliegenden Beitrag wird die Urteilsfähigkeit aus rechtlicher Sicht erläutert. 
Gemäß Art. 16 ZGB ist urteilsfähig jede Person, der nicht wegen ihres 
Kindesalters, infolge geistiger Behinderung, psychischer Störung, Rausch oder 
ähnlicher Zustände die Fähigkeit mangelt, vernunftgemäß zu handeln. 
Urteilsunfähigkeit setzt demnach objektiv das Vorliegen eines der umschriebenen 
Zustände voraus, der in subjektiver Hinsicht zur Folge hat, dass die Fähigkeit 
zu vernunftgemäßem Handeln nicht gegeben ist. Die Urteilsfähigkeit ist dabei 
immer relativ zu verstehen, d. h. sie ist rechtlich mit Blick auf ein konkretes 
Geschäft und für einen konkreten Zeitpunkt zu beurteilen. Beweismäßig wird 
grundsätzlich die Urteilsfähigkeit vermutet. Im Rahmen eines 
Beurkundungsverfahrens hat der Notar die Urteilsfähigkeit der Parteien zu 
prüfen, wobei es sich indessen um eine bloß summarische, beschränkte Prüfung 
handelt. Ist die Urteilsfähigkeit umstritten, so ist zur abschließenden, 
autoritativen Beurteilung allein der Zivilrichter zuständig.

DOI: 10.1024/0040-5930/a000672
PMID: 25791048 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


47. Curr Treat Options Gastroenterol. 2015 Jun;13(2):219-34. doi: 
10.1007/s11938-015-0049-8.

Therapeutic strategies for hepatocellular carcinoma: new advances and 
challenges.

Vilarinho S(1), Taddei T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Internal Medicine, Section of Digestive Diseases, Yale 
University School of Medicine, 333 Cedar Street, 1080 LMP, PO Box 208019, New 
Haven, CT, 06520-8019, USA, silvia.vilarinho@yale.edu.

Hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) is the fastest growing malignancy in the USA, and 
its prognosis remains poor with a 5-year survival around 12 %. Clinical data 
demonstrate that 85 % of cases occur in individuals with underlying cirrhosis 
and only 15 % develop in non-cirrhotic livers. Therefore, American and European 
guidelines recommend routine HCC screening for high-risk individuals (patients 
with cirrhosis) with abdominal ultrasound every 6 months. Once a lesion is 
identified or suspected on ultrasound, dynamic imaging is then indicated. The 
diagnosis of HCC is established in a patient with cirrhosis when a lesion 
measures at least 1 cm in diameter and demonstrates arterial enhancement and 
portal venous washout on contrast-enhanced computerized tomography or magnetic 
resonance imaging. Indeterminate lesions should be followed with surveillance 
imaging or further investigated with biopsy according to the level of suspicion 
for malignancy. Given the clinical, pathological, and molecular heterogeneity of 
HCC, there are multiple therapeutic modalities available. These may be curative, 
such as surgical resection, liver transplantation, and local ablation, or 
palliative, such as catheter-directed therapies (transarterial chemo, radio, or 
bland embolization), and systemic therapy (sorafenib). Patients with a single 
lesion, good performance status, and preserved liver synthetic function should 
be offered curative surgical resection or ablation therapy. Patients with HCC 
and decompensated liver disease should be evaluated and listed for liver 
transplantation. For unresectable disease or tumor burden precluding 
transplantation or curative ablation, palliative therapeutic modalities should 
be offered. Sorafenib is indicated for patients with vascular invasion and/or 
extra-hepatic metastasis if the estimated life expectancy is more than 3 months. 
Systemic internal radiation therapy using yttrium-90 microspheres in cases of 
multifocal bi-lobar disease and/or portal vein occlusion is an emerging therapy. 
Best supportive care is recommended for patients who lack the hepatic reserve to 
tolerate therapy.

DOI: 10.1007/s11938-015-0049-8
PMID: 25791207


48. Am J Cardiol. 2015 May 1;115(9):1287-92. doi: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2015.02.014. 
Epub 2015 Feb 12.

Age-dependency of cardiac and neuromuscular findings in adults with left 
ventricular hypertrabeculation/noncompaction.

Stöllberger C(1), Blazek G(2), Gessner M(2), Bichler K(3), Wegner C(4), 
Finsterer J(5).

Author information:
(1)Krankenanstalt Rudolfstiftung, Vienna, Austria. Electronic address: 
claudia.stoellberger@chello.at.
(2)Hanusch Krankenhaus, Vienna, Austria.
(3)Landesklinikum Mödling, Mödling, Austria.
(4)Vienna Institute of Demography of the Austrian Academy of Sciences, Vienna, 
Austria.
(5)Krankenanstalt Rudolfstiftung, Vienna, Austria.

Left ventricular hypertrabeculation/noncompaction (LVHT) is diagnosed in all 
ages and is frequently associated with neuromuscular disorders (NMDs). The aim 
of the study was to compare patients with LVHT depending on age at diagnosis. 
Included were 232 patients with LVHT (72 women, mean age 52±17 years) diagnosed 
from 1995 to 2014 at 1 echocardiographic laboratory. In 2014, their survival was 
assessed. Seventy-six percent of the patients were neurologically investigated, 
revealing specific NMDs in 18%, unspecific NMDs in 60%, and normal findings in 
22%. Forty-five patients (19%) received electronic devices: implantable 
cardioverter-defibrillators in 26 patients, combined with cardiac 
resynchronization systems (n=14) or an antibradycardic pacemaker (n=1); 
antibradycardic pacemakers (n=8); cardiac resynchronization systems (n=4); 
implantable loop recorders (n=4); life vests (n=2); and a left ventricular 
assist device as a bridge to transplantation (n=1). During 72-month follow-up, 
mortality was 4.9% per year. In younger age groups, more patients were referred 
for syncope or palpitations, whereas in older age groups, more patients were 
referred for heart failure. Classic cardiovascular risk factors such as 
hypertension and diabetes, as well as coronary artery stenosis, were rare in the 
young age groups but were more prevalent in older age groups. Differences 
between age groups were found regarding cardiac symptoms, NMDs, 
electrocardiographic findings, rate of device implantation, and mortality but 
not in location and extension of LVHT. None of the neurologically investigated 
patients≥70 years of age was neurologically normal. Prevalence of heart failure, 
electrocardiographic abnormalities, and mortality were highest in the oldest age 
group. In conclusion, LVHT must be considered as an echocardiographic diagnosis 
in all age groups. The morphologic pattern of LVHT is similar, whereas clinical 
manifestations and prognosis are variable among age groups.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.amjcard.2015.02.014
PMID: 25791238 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


49. Cell Physiol Biochem. 2015;35(4):1437-53. doi: 10.1159/000373964. Epub 2015
Mar  12.

Plasma phosphatidylcholine alterations in cystic fibrosis patients: impaired 
metabolism and correlation with lung function and inflammation.

Grothe J(1), Riethmüller J, Tschürtz SM, Raith M, Pynn CJ, Stoll D, Bernhard W.

Author information:
(1)Department of Neonatology, Faculty of Medicine, Eberhard-Karls-University, 
Tübingen, Germany.

BACKGROUND: Liver impairment, ranging from steatosis to cirrhosis, is frequent 
in cystic fibrosis (CF) patients and is becoming increasingly significant due to 
their improved life expectancy. One aspect of hepatic alterations is caused by 
increased fecal loss of the essential nutrient choline, following enterohepatic 
bile phosphatidylcholine (PC) cycle impairment. Hepatic PC synthesis, both de 
novo and via phosphatidylethanolamine-N-methyl-transferase (PEMT), is essential 
for very low-density lipoprotein (VLDL) secretion. VLDL-PC in particular 
contributes to the organism's supply with polyunsaturated fatty acids (LC-PUFA), 
namely arachidonic (C20:4) and docosahexaenoic acid (C22:6). Consequently, 
choline deprivation and altered hepatic PC metabolism may affect plasma PC 
homeostasis and extrahepatic organ function.
OBJECTIVES: To investigate relationships between altered plasma choline and PC 
homeostasis and markers of lung function and inflammation in CF. To assess 
alterations in hepatic choline and PC metabolism of CF patients.
DESIGN: Quantification of plasma/serum choline and PC species in adult CF 
patients compared to controls. Correlation of PC with forced expiratory vital 
capacity (FEV1) and interleukin 6 (IL-6) concentrations. Analysis of choline and 
PC metabolism in CF compared to controls, using deuterated choline 
([D₉-methyl]-choline) labeling in vivo.
RESULTS: Mean choline and PC concentrations in CF patients were lower than in 
controls. Choline and PC concentrations as well as fractions of C22:6-PC and 
C20:4-PC correlated directly with FEV1, but inversely with IL-6. Plasma 
concentrations of deuterated PC were decreased for both pathways, whereas only 
in PC synthesized via PEMT precursor enrichment was decreased.
CONCLUSION: In CF patients, hepatic and plasma homeostasis of choline and PC 
correlate with lung function and inflammation. Impaired hepatic PC metabolism, 
exemplarily shown in three CF patients, provides an explanation for such 
correlations. Larger studies are required to understand the link between hepatic 
PC metabolism and overall clinical performance of CF patients, and the 
perspective of choline substitution of these patients.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000373964
PMID: 25791258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


50. Gerontology. 2015;61(3):241-50. doi: 10.1159/000369800. Epub 2015 Mar 19.

Subjective Beliefs, Memory and Functional Health: Change and Associations over 
12 Years in the Australian Longitudinal Study of Ageing.

Luszcz MA(1), Anstey KJ, Ghisletta P.

Author information:
(1)Flinders Centre for Ageing Studies, School of Psychology, Flinders 
University, Adelaide, S.A., Australia.

BACKGROUND: Neither subjective memory beliefs, nor remembering itself, can be 
isolated from the overall context in which one is aging, nor are the drivers of 
memory complaints well specified. Sense of control is an important 
self-regulatory resource that drives cognitive and physical health over the 
lifespan. Existing findings are equivocal concerning both the extent of 
stability or change in control beliefs over time as well as their contribution 
to changes in behavior.
OBJECTIVE: Subjective beliefs may play a role when engaging memory processes or 
identifying memory complaints, and it has been argued that self-regulatory 
potential in general may be limited by age-related changes in the domains of 
health and cognition. We aimed to examine trajectories of change and shed light 
on relationships among subjective beliefs and indicators of memory and 
functional health.
METHODS: Participants' data were drawn from four measurement occasions over up 
to a 12-year period (1992-2004) from the Australian Longitudinal Study of Ageing 
(ALSA), a population-based study of older adults [age 65-100 years; mean age(SD) 
at the first and final occasion 78.2 (6.7) and 84.9 (4.9) years, respectively]. 
Participants completed three questionnaires assessing subjective beliefs 
concerning (1) memory knowledge and control, (2) health control, and (3) 
expectancy of control over a range of lifestyle situations. Memory comprised a 
recall composite. Functional health tapped mobility and disability. Latent 
growth curve models incorporated informative covariates (baseline age, gender, 
self-rated health, education, and chronic conditions).
RESULTS: While subjective memory control beliefs, but not subjective knowledge 
of memory tasks, improved over 12 years, neither was associated with level of 
memory performance. Knowledge of memory tasks was linked to a significant memory 
decline. Beliefs about memory, health, and lifestyle were interrelated. Declines 
in remembering and health were also coupled; moreover, changes in both were 
coupled with change in lifestyle control beliefs.
CONCLUSIONS: This is the first examination of individual differences in changes 
in, and relationships among, psychological domains of subjective beliefs about 
memory, health, and lifestyle, and objective remembering and functional health 
in very late life. Findings point to a system of coupled changes in memory and 
health in late life that is related to underlying beliefs about control over 
lifestyle.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel

DOI: 10.1159/000369800
PMID: 25791512 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


51. JOP. 2015 Mar 20;16(2):159-66. doi: 10.6092/1590-8577/2958.

Long-term outcomes after acute necrotizing pancreatitis: what happens to the 
pancreas and to the patient?

Winter Gasparoto RC(1), Racy Mde C, De Campos T.

Author information:
(1)Department of Gastroenterology, Santa Casa School of Medicine. São Paulo, 
Brazil. terciodecampos@gmail.com.

CONTEXT: Late consequences of acute pancreatitis have received little attention. 
It is controversial whether the pancreas fully recovers after an episode of 
acute pancreatitis, especially in the presence of necrosis. Therefore, the 
presence of late pancreatic dysfunction following acute necrotizing pancreatitis 
is uncertain and there are controversies about how it may affect long-term 
quality of life.
OBJECTIVES: To evaluate pancreatic function and morphology, besides quality of 
life, in patients with prior acute necrotizing pancreatitis.
PATIENTS: Patients who were admitted to our hospital with acute necrotizing 
pancreatitis in a ten-year interval were identified and thirty-eight survivors 
were contacted to enroll in the study out of which sixteen patients were 
included.
METHODS: Exocrine function was studied by qualitative fecal fat excretion. 
Endocrine function was evaluated by oral glucose tolerance test, HOMA-beta and 
C-peptide. Pancreatic morphology was examined by computed tomography. Quality of 
life was measured by 36-item short-form health survey. Tests were performed at 
least twelve months after the index episode of acute necrotizing pancreatitis.
RESULTS: The prevalence of pancreatic exocrine insufficiency was 6.2%. Endocrine 
dysfunction was observed in half the cases, and no association with the 
extension of necrosis was found. Morphological changes were frequent (62.5%) and 
more prevalent in those who faced extensive necrosis. Quality of life was 
considered good, and its impairment was found exclusively in mental health 
domain, markedly in patients who had alcoholic pancreatitis. There was no 
correlation between quality of life and prognostic indicators.
CONCLUSIONS: Exocrine function and quality of life were preserved in this group 
of patients. However, endocrine dysfunction and morphological abnormalities were 
frequent after acute necrotizing pancreatitis. These findings justify a 
long-term follow-up in order to initiate specific treatment promptly.

DOI: 10.6092/1590-8577/2958
PMID: 25791549


52. Br J Cancer. 2015 Apr 14;112(8):1301-5. doi: 10.1038/bjc.2015.65. Epub 2015
Mar  19.

Economic evaluation for the UK of nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine in the 
treatment of metastatic pancreas cancer.

Gharaibeh M(1), McBride A(2), Bootman JL(1), Abraham I(3).

Author information:
(1)Center for Health Outcomes and PharmacoEconomic Research, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA.
(2)Arizona Cancer Center, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA.
(3)1] Center for Health Outcomes and PharmacoEconomic Research, College of 
Pharmacy, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA [2] Arizona Cancer 
Center, University of Arizona, Tucson, AZ 85721, USA.

BACKGROUND: The combination of nab-paclitaxel plus gemcitabine (NAB-P+GEM) has 
shown superior efficacy over GEM monotherapy in metastatic pancreas cancer 
(MPC). Independent cost-effectiveness/utility analyses of NAB-P+GEM from the 
payer perspective have not been conducted for the UK.
METHODS: A Markov model simulating the health outcomes and total costs was 
developed to estimate the life years gained (LYG) and quality-adjusted life 
years gained (QALY) and incremental cost-effectiveness (ICER) and cost-utility 
ratios (ICUR) for patients with MPC in a base case and in a probabilistic (PSA) 
sensitivity analysis. Total cost included the cost of supportive care 
medications, administration, chemotherapy, disease monitoring, and adverse 
reactions; and was discounted at 3.5% per year. A full lifetime horizon and 
third party payer perspective was chosen.
RESULTS: The total cost of NAB-P+GEM was £5466 higher than the cost for GEM. 
Respectively, LYGs were 0.97 vs 0.79 and QALYs were 0.52 vs 0.45, with ICER of 
£30 367/LYG and ICUR of £78 086/QALY, confirmed by PSA.
CONCLUSIONS: The superior survival efficacy of NAB-P+GEM over GEM in the 
management of MPC is associated with positive cost-effectiveness and 
cost-utility.

DOI: 10.1038/bjc.2015.65
PMCID: PMC4402455
PMID: 25791875 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


53. Biogerontology. 2015 Aug;16(4):473-84. doi: 10.1007/s10522-015-9569-9. Epub
2015  Mar 20.

Effects of ageing and experimental diabetes on insulin-degrading 
enzyme expression in male rat tissues.

Kochkina EG(1), Plesneva SA, Vasilev DS, Zhuravin IA, Turner AJ, Nalivaeva NN.

Author information:
(1)I.M. Sechenov Institute of Evolutionary Physiology and Biochemistry, Russian 
Academy of Sciences, 44 Thorez av., St. Petersburg, 194223, Russia.

Due to an increasing life expectancy in developing countries, cases of type 2 
diabetes and Alzheimer's disease (AD) in the elderly are growing exponentially. 
Despite a causative link between diabetes and AD, general molecular mechanisms 
underlying pathogenesis of these disorders are still far from being understood. 
One of the factors leading to cell death and cognitive impairment characteristic 
of AD is accumulation in the brain of toxic aggregates of amyloid-β peptide 
(Aβ). In the normally functioning brain Aβ catabolism is regulated by a cohort 
of proteolytic enzymes including insulin-degrading enzyme (IDE) and their 
deficit with ageing can result in Aβ accumulation and increased risk of AD. The 
aim of this study was a comparative analysis of IDE expression in the brain 
structures involved in AD, as well as in peripheral organs (the liver and 
kidney) of rats, during natural ageing and after experimentally-induced 
diabetes. It was found that ageing is accompanied by a significant decrease of 
IDE mRNA and protein content in the liver (by 32 and 81%) and brain structures 
(in the cortex by 58 and 47% and in the striatum by 53 and 68%, respectively). 
In diabetic animals, IDE protein level was increased in the liver (by 36%) and 
in the striatum (by 42%) while in the brain cortex and hippocampus it was 20-30% 
lower than in control animals. No significant IDE protein changes were observed 
in the kidney of diabetic rats. These data testify that ageing and diabetes are 
accompanied by a deficit of IDE in the brain structures where accumulation of Aβ 
was reported in AD patients, which might be one of the factors predisposing to 
development of the sporadic form of AD in the elderly, and especially in 
diabetics.

DOI: 10.1007/s10522-015-9569-9
PMID: 25792373 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


54. Osteoporos Int. 2015 Jun;26(6):1781-90. doi: 10.1007/s00198-015-3088-z. Epub 
2015 Mar 20.

Changes in quality of life associated with fragility fractures: Australian arm 
of the International Cost and Utility Related to Osteoporotic Fractures Study 
(AusICUROS).

Abimanyi-Ochom J(1), Watts JJ(2), Borgström F(3), Nicholson GC(4)(5), 
Shore-Lorenti C(4), Stuart AL(6), Zhang Y(4)(6), Iuliano S(7), Seeman E(7), 
Prince R(8), March L(9), Cross M(9), Winzenberg T(10), Laslett LL(10), Duque 
G(11), Ebeling PR(4)(12), Sanders KM(4)(13).

Author information:
(1)Deakin Health Economics, Population Health Strategic Research Centre, Deakin 
University, Burwood, VIC, Australia. j.abimanyiochom@deakin.edu.au.
(2)Deakin Health Economics, Population Health Strategic Research Centre, Deakin 
University, Burwood, VIC, Australia.
(3)LIME/MMC, Karolinska Institutet, Solna, Sweden.
(4)Australian Institute of Musculoskeletal Science, Department of Medicine, The 
University of Melbourne-Western Health, Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(5)Rural Clinical School, The University of Queensland, Toowoomba, QLD, 
Australia.
(6)School of Medicine, Deakin University, Geelong, VIC, Australia.
(7)Department of Medicine, Austin Health, The University of Melbourne, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(8)Sir Charles Gairdner Hospital, Perth, WA, Australia.
(9)Institute of Bone and Joint Research, University of Sydney-Royal North Shore 
Hospital, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(10)Menzies Research Institute Tasmania, University of Tasmania, Tasmania, TAS, 
Australia.
(11)Ageing Bone Research Program, Sydney Medical School, Nepean Hospital, 
University of Sydney, Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(12)Department of Medicine, School of Clinical Sciences, Monash University, 
Melbourne, VIC, Australia.
(13)Institute for Health and Ageing, Australian Catholic University, Melbourne, 
VIC, Australia.

We investigated change in health-related quality of life due to fracture in 
Australian adults aged over 50 years. Fractures reduce quality of life with the 
loss sustained at least over 12 months. At a population level, the loss was 
equivalent to 65 days in full health per fracture.
PURPOSE: We aimed to quantify the change in health-related quality of life 
(HRQoL) that occurred as a consequence of a fracture using the EQ-5D-3 L 
questionnaire.
METHODS: Adults aged ≥50 years with a low to moderate energy fracture were 
recruited from eight study centres across Australia. This prospective study 
included an 18-month follow-up of participants recruited within 2 weeks of a 
fracture (hip, wrist, humerus, vertebral and ankle). Information collected at 
baseline and 4, 12 and 18 months included characteristics of participants such 
as income level, education and prior fracture status. At 12 months 
post-fracture, the cumulative loss of quality of life was estimated using 
multivariate regression analysis to identify the predictors of HRQoL loss.
RESULTS: Mean HRQoL for all participants before fracture was 0.86, with wrist 
fracture having the highest pre-fracture HRQoL (0.90), while vertebral fracture 
had the lowest (0.80). HRQoL declined to 0.42 in the immediate post-fracture 
period. Only participants with a wrist, humerus or ankle fracture returned to 
their pre-fracture HRQoL after 18 months. An increased loss of HRQoL over 12 
months was associated with HRQoL prior to the fracture, hospitalisation, 
education and fracture site. The multiple regression explained 30 % of the 
variation in the cumulative HRQoL loss at 12 months post-fracture for all 
fractures.
CONCLUSION: Low to moderate energy fractures reduce HRQoL, and this loss is 
sustained for at least 12 months or, in the case of hip and spine fractures, at 
least 18 months. At a population level, this represents an average loss of 65 
days in full health per fragility fracture. This significant burden reinforces 
the need for cost-effective fracture prevention strategies.

DOI: 10.1007/s00198-015-3088-z
PMCID: PMC4468793
PMID: 25792491 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


55. J Jpn Phys Ther Assoc. 2005;8(1):21-8. doi: 10.1298/jjpta.8.21.

Physiological and health-related quality of life outcomes following cardiac 
rehabilitation after cardiac surgery.

Hirano Y(1), Izawa K(2), Watanabe S(2), Yamada S(3), Oka K(4), Kasahara Y(1), 
Omiya K(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, St. Marianna University School of 
Medicine, Yokohama City Seibu Hospital, Yokohama 241-0811, Japan.
(2)Department of Rehabilitation Medicine, St. Marianna University School of 
Medicine Hospital, Kawasaki 216-8511, Japan.
(3)Institute of Medical Sciences, University of Nagoya, Nagoya 461-8673, Japan.
(4)Tokyo Metropolitan Institute of Gerontology, Tokyo 173-0015, Japan.
(5)Division of Cardiology, Department of Internal Medicine, St. Marianna 
University School of Medicine, Kawasaki 216-8511, Japan.

We investigated the changes of an 8-week cardiac rehabilitation (CR) program on 
physiological outcomes and health-related quality of life (HRQL) in Japanese 
cardiac surgery patients. Subjects were 47 consecutive outpatients (32 men, 15 
women; mean age 59.4 ± 12.6 years) recovering from cardiac surgery. Patients 
performed both aerobic exercise on a treadmill at anaerobic threshold intensity 
and moderate resistance training 2 days per week, 60 min per session, from 1 to 
3 months after cardiac surgery. Differences in the eight SF-36 subscale scores 
and physiological outcomes within the patient group at 1 month and at 3 months 
after cardiac surgery were analyzed. Peak oxygen uptake, handgrip strength, and 
knee extension strength were used as physiological outcome measures. HRQL was 
assessed with the Japanese version Medical Outcome Study Short Form 36 (SF-36). 
Significant change in overall physiological outcome from 1 month to 3 months was 
observed. There was also significant change in seven of the eight SF-36 health 
status subscale scores (physical functioning, role-physical, bodily pain, 
general health, vitality, role-emotional, and mental health). However, with the 
exception of physical functioning and mental health scores, values did not reach 
those of the average healthy Japanese. In conclusion, we found that CR exercise 
training for Japanese cardiac surgery patients during the recovery phase changes 
not only physiological outcomes but also HRQL as assessed by the SF-36.

DOI: 10.1298/jjpta.8.21
PMCID: PMC4316505
PMID: 25792940


56. Evid Based Complement Alternat Med. 2015;2015:535237. doi:
10.1155/2015/535237.  Epub 2015 Feb 22.

Tai chi chuan exercise for patients with breast cancer: a systematic review and 
meta-analysis.

Pan Y(1), Yang K(2), Shi X(3), Liang H(4), Zhang F(5), Lv Q(6).

Author information:
(1)Institute of Medical Psychology, Evidence-Based Medicine Center, Key 
Laboratory of Evidence Based Medicine and Knowledge Translation of Gansu 
Province, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, 
China.
(2)Dean of Evidence-Based Medicine Center, Evidence-Based Medicine Center, Key 
Laboratory of Evidence Based Medicine and Knowledge Translation of Gansu 
Province, School of Basic Medical Sciences, Lanzhou University, Lanzhou 730000, 
China.
(3)Department of Internal Medicine, Gansu Rehabilitaition Center Hospital, 
Lanzhou, Gansu 730000, China.
(4)Department of Neurosurgery, The Affiliated Hospital of Logistics University 
of CAPF, Tianjin 300162, China.
(5)The Second Department of Gynaecology, Gansu Province People's Hospital, 
Lanzhou, Gansu 730000, China.
(6)Department of Radiology, The Tumor Hospital of Gansu Province, Lanzhou, Gansu 
730050, China.

Objective. Tai Chi Chuan (TCC) is a form of aerobic exercise that may be an 
effective therapy for improving psychosomatic capacity among breast cancer 
survivors. This meta-analysis analyzed the available randomized controlled 
trials (RCTs) on the effects of TCC in relieving treatment-related side effects 
and quality of life in women with breast cancer. Methods. RCTs were searched in 
PubMed, Embase, Web of Science, and Cochrane Library through April 2014. Data 
were analyzed on pathology (pain, interleukin-6, and insulin-like growth factor 
1), physical capacity (handgrip, limb physical fitness, and BMI), and well-being 
(physical, social, emotional, and general quality of life). Results. Nine RCTs, 
including a total of 322 breast cancer patients, were examined. Compared with 
control therapies, the pooled results suggested that TCC showed significant 
effects in improving handgrip dynamometer strength, limb elbow flexion (elbow 
extension, abduction, and horizontal adduction). No significant differences were 
observed in pain, interleukin-6, insulin-like growth factor, BMI, physical 
well-being, social or emotional well-being, or general health-related quality of 
life. Conclusion. The short-term effects of TCC may have potential benefits in 
upper limb functional mobility in patients with breast cancer. Additional 
randomized controlled trials with longer follow-up are needed to provide more 
reliable evidence.

DOI: 10.1155/2015/535237
PMCID: PMC4352428
PMID: 25793000


57. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 20;10(3):e0120763. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120763. 
eCollection 2015.

Cost-effectiveness of adding bedaquiline to drug regimens for the treatment of 
multidrug-resistant tuberculosis in the UK.

Wolfson LJ(1), Walker A(2), Hettle R(2), Lu X(1), Kambili C(3), Murungi A(4), 
Knerer G(4).

Author information:
(1)Janssen Pharmaceutica NV, Beerse, Belgium.
(2)HERON Commercialization, London, United Kingdom.
(3)Janssen Global Services LLC, Raritan, New Jersey, United States of America.
(4)Janssen (Janssen-Cilag), High Wycombe, United Kingdom.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of adding bedaquiline to a 
background regimen (BR) of drugs for multidrug-resistant tuberculosis (MDR-TB) 
in the United Kingdom (UK).
METHODS: A cohort-based Markov model was developed to estimate the incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratio of bedaquiline plus BR (BBR) versus BR alone (BR) in 
the treatment of MDR-TB, over a 10-year time horizon. A National Health Service 
(NHS) and personal social services perspective was considered. 
Cost-effectiveness was evaluated in terms of Quality-Adjusted Life Years (QALYs) 
and Disability-Adjusted Life Years (DALYs). Data were sourced from a phase II, 
placebo-controlled trial, NHS reference costs, and the literature; the US list 
price of bedaquiline was used and converted to pounds (£18,800). Costs and 
effectiveness were discounted at a rate of 3.5% per annum. Probabilistic and 
deterministic sensitivity analysis was conducted.
RESULTS: The total discounted cost per patient (pp) on BBR was £106,487, 
compared with £117,922 for BR. The total discounted QALYs pp were 5.16 for BBR 
and 4.01 for BR. The addition of bedaquiline to a BR resulted in a cost-saving 
of £11,434 and an additional 1.14 QALYs pp over a 10-year period, and is 
therefore considered to be the dominant (less costly and more effective) 
strategy over BR. BBR remained dominant in the majority of sensitivity analyses, 
with a 81% probability of being dominant versus BR in the probabilistic 
analysis.
CONCLUSIONS: In the UK, bedaquiline is likely to be cost-effective and 
cost-saving, compared with the current MDR-TB standard of care under a range of 
scenarios. Cost-savings over a 10-year period were realized from reductions in 
length of hospitalization, which offset the bedaquiline drug costs. The 
cost-benefit conclusions held after several sensitivity analyses, thus 
validating assumptions made, and suggesting that the results would hold even if 
the actual price of bedaquiline in the UK were higher than in the US.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0120763
PMCID: PMC4368676
PMID: 25794045 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have the 
following interests: L.J. Wolfson and X. Lu were employed by Janssen 
Pharmaceutica N.V. at the time of writing this manuscript; C. Kambili was 
employed by Janssen Global Services LLC; and G. Knerer and A. Murungi were 
employed by Janssen-Cilag. R. Hettle and A. Walker were commissioned by Janssen 
Pharmaceutica N.V. to prepare the cost-effectiveness model that this manuscript 
is based on. Anna Walker and Robert Hettle are employed by HERON™ 
Commercialization. There are no patents, products in development or marketed 
products to declare. This does not alter the authors' adherence to all the PLoS 
ONE policies on sharing data and materials.


58. AJR Am J Roentgenol. 2015 Apr;204(4):W475-82. doi: 10.2214/AJR.14.12802.

Radiographic screening of infants and young children with genetic predisposition 
for rare malignancies: DICER1 mutations and pleuropulmonary blastoma.

Sabapathy DG(1), Guillerman RP, Orth RC, Zhang W, Messinger Y, Foulkes W, Priest 
JR, Annapragada AV.

Author information:
(1)1 Department of Pediatric Radiology, Texas Children's Hospital, 1102 Bates 
Ave, Ste 850, Feigin Center, Houston, TX 77030.

OBJECTIVE: The purpose of this study was to compare the risks of radiation in 
screening strategies using chest radiographs and CT to detect a rare cancer in a 
genetically predisposed population against the risks of undetected disease.
