reimbursement data. Costs and QALYs were discounted at 5% per annum. One-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed to assess the uncertainty 
around utilities and cost data.After a treatment period of 5 years, for group A, 
the ICER was Australian dollars (AUD) 27,698 (&OV0556; 18,004; AUD 1-&OV0556; 
0.65) per QALY gained comparing ACEI-based treatment with diuretic-based 
treatment (sensitive to the utility value for new-onset diabetes). In group B, 
ACEI-based treatment was a dominant strategy (both more effective and 
cost-saving). On probabilistic sensitivity analysis, the ICERs per QALY gained 
were always below AUD 50,000 for group B; whereas for group A, the probability 
of being below AUD 50,000 was 85%.Although the dispensed price of diuretic-based 
treatment of hypertension in the elderly is lower, upon considering the 
potential enhanced likelihood of the development of diabetes in addition to the 
costs of treating cardiovascular disease, ACEI-based treatment may be a more 
cost-effective strategy in this population.

DOI: 10.1097/MD.0000000000000590
PMCID: PMC4553958
PMID: 25738481 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


885. Int J Environ Res Public Health. 2015 Mar 2;12(3):2735-48. doi: 
10.3390/ijerph120302735.

Temperature variation and heat wave and cold spell impacts on years of life lost 
among the urban poor population of Nairobi, Kenya.

Egondi T(1)(2), Kyobutungi C(3), Rocklöv J(4).

Author information:
(1)African Population and Health Research Center, Nairobi, P.O. Box 10787-00100, 
Kenya. tegondi@aphrc.org.
(2)Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Epidemiology and Global 
Health, Umeå University, Umeå, SE-901-87, Sweden. tegondi@aphrc.org.
(3)African Population and Health Research Center, Nairobi, P.O. Box 10787-00100, 
Kenya. ckyobutungi@aphrc.org.
(4)Department of Public Health and Clinical Medicine, Epidemiology and Global 
Health, Umeå University, Umeå, SE-901-87, Sweden. joacim.rocklov@umu.se.

Weather extremes are associated with adverse health outcomes, including 
mortality. Studies have investigated the mortality risk of temperature in terms 
of excess mortality, however, this risk estimate may not be appealing to policy 
makers assessing the benefits expected for any interventions to be adopted. To 
provide further evidence of the burden of extreme temperatures, we analyzed the 
effect of temperature on years of life lost (YLL) due to all-cause mortality 
among the population in two urban informal settlements. YLL was generated based 
on the life expectancy of the population during the study period by applying a 
survival analysis approach. Association between daily maximum temperature and 
YLL was assessed using a distributed lag nonlinear model. In addition, cold 
spell and heat wave effects, as defined according to different percentiles, were 
investigated. The exposure-response curve between temperature and YLL was 
J-shaped, with the minimum mortality temperature (MMT) of 26 °C. An average 
temperature of 21 °C compared to the MMT was associated with an increase of 27.4 
YLL per day (95% CI, 2.7-52.0 years). However, there was no additional effect 
for extended periods of cold spells, nor did we find significant associations 
between YLL to heat or heat waves. Overall, increased YLL from all-causes were 
associated with cold spells indicating the need for initiating measure for 
reducing health burdens.

DOI: 10.3390/ijerph120302735
PMCID: PMC4377929
PMID: 25739007 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


886. Health Technol Assess. 2015 Mar;19(18):1-120, v-vi. doi: 10.3310/hta19180.

Systematic review and economic modelling of the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of art therapy among people with non-psychotic mental health 
disorders.

Uttley L(1), Scope A(1), Stevenson M(1), Rawdin A(1), Taylor Buck E(1), Sutton 
A(1), Stevens J(1), Kaltenthaler E(1), Dent-Brown K(2), Wood C(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Health and Related Research (ScHARR), University of Sheffield, 
Sheffield, UK.
(2)Department of Psychology, University of Hull, Hull, UK.
(3)Sheffield Health and Social Care NHS Foundation Trust, Netherthorpe House, 
Sheffield, UK.

BACKGROUND: Mental health problems account for almost half of all ill health in 
people under 65 years. The majority are non-psychotic (e.g. depression, anxiety 
and phobias). For some people, art therapy may provide more profound and 
long-lasting healing than more standard forms of treatment, perhaps because it 
can provide an alternative means of expression and release from trauma. As yet, 
no formal evaluation of art therapy for non-psychotic mental health disorders 
has been conducted.
AIM: This review aimed to evaluate evidence for the clinical effectiveness and 
cost-effectiveness of art therapy for non-psychotic mental health disorders.
METHODS: Comprehensive literature searches for studies examining art therapy in 
populations with non-psychotic mental health disorders were performed in major 
health-related and social science bibliographic databases including MEDLINE, 
EMBASE, The Cochrane Library, Cumulative Index to Nursing and Allied Health 
Literature (CINAHL), PsycINFO, Allied and Complementary Medicine Database (AMED) 
and Applied Social Sciences Index and Abstracts (ASSIA) from inception up to May 
2013. A quantitative systematic review of clinical effectiveness, a qualitative 
review to explore the acceptability, relative benefits and potential harms, and 
a cost-utility analysis of studies evaluating cost-effectiveness of art therapy 
were conducted.
RESULTS: In the quantitative review, 15 randomised controlled trials (RCTs) were 
included (n = 777). Meta-analysis was not possible because of clinical 
heterogeneity and insufficient comparable data on outcome measures across 
studies. A narrative synthesis reports that art therapy was associated with 
significant positive changes relative to the control group in mental health 
symptoms in 10 out of the 15 studies. The control groups varied between studies 
but included wait-list/no treatment, attention placebo controls and 
psychological therapy comparators. Four studies reported improvement from 
baseline but no significant difference between groups. One study reported that 
outcomes were more favourable in the control group. The quality of included RCTs 
was generally low. In the qualitative review, 12 cohort studies were included 
(n = 188 service users; n = 16 service providers). Themes relating to benefits 
of art therapy for service users included the relationship with the therapist, 
personal achievement and distraction. Areas of potential harms were related to 
the activation of emotions that were then unresolved, lack of skill of the art 
therapist and sudden termination of art therapy. The quality of included 
qualitative studies was generally low to moderate. In the cost-effectiveness 
review, a de novo model was constructed and populated with data identified from 
the clinical review. Scenario analyses were conducted allowing comparisons of 
group art therapy with wait-list control, group art therapy with group verbal 
therapy, and individual art therapy versus control. Art therapy appeared 
cost-effective compared with wait-list control with high certainty, although 
generalisability to the target population was unclear. Verbal therapy appeared 
more cost-effective than art therapy but there was considerable uncertainty and 
a sizeable probability that art therapy was more clinically effective. The 
cost-effectiveness of individual art therapy was uncertain and dependent on 
assumptions regarding clinical benefit and duration of benefit.
CONCLUSIONS: From the limited available evidence, art therapy was associated 
with positive effects when compared with a control in a number of studies in 
patients with different clinical profiles, and it was reported to be an 
acceptable treatment and was associated with a number of benefits. Art therapy 
appeared to be cost-effective compared with wait-list but further studies are 
needed to confirm this finding as well as evidence to inform future 
cost-effective analyses of art therapy versus other treatments.
STUDY REGISTRATION: The study is registered as PROSPERO CRD42013003957.
FUNDING: The National Institute for Health Research Health Technology Assessment 
programme.

DOI: 10.3310/hta19180
PMCID: PMC4781197
PMID: 25739466 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


887. Thorax. 2015 May;70(5):482-9. doi: 10.1136/thoraxjnl-2014-206084. Epub 2015
Mar  4.

Accelerated ageing of the lung in COPD: new concepts.

Mercado N(1), Ito K(1), Barnes PJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Airway Disease Section, National Heart & Lung Institute, Imperial College 
London, London, UK.

The rise in life expectancy worldwide has been accompanied by an increased 
incidence of age-related diseases, representing an enormous burden on healthcare 
services and society. All vital organs lose function with age, and this is well 
described in the lung, with a progressive decline in pulmonary function after 
the age of about 25 years. The lung ages, like any other organ, with progressive 
functional impairment and reduced capacity to respond to environmental stresses 
and injury. Normal physiological ageing results in enlarged alveolar spaces and 
loss of lung elasticity in the elderly known as 'senile emphysema', whereas in 
COPD there is destruction of the alveolar walls and fibrosis of peripheral 
airways. However, COPD shows striking age-associated features, such as an 
increase in cellular senescence, stem cell exhaustion, increased oxidative 
stress, alteration in the extracellular matrix and a reduction in endogenous 
antiageing molecules and protective pathways such as autophagy. In this review 
we discuss the evidence showing how oxidative stress induces accelerated ageing 
by upregulating the phosphatidylinositol-4,5-bisphosphate 
3-kinase/AKT/mechanistic target of rapamycin signalling pathway resulting in 
depletion of stem cells, defective autophagy, reduced antioxidant responses and 
defective mitochondrial function thus generating further oxidative stress. 
Understanding the mechanisms of accelerated ageing in COPD may identify novel 
therapeutic approaches.

Published by the BMJ Publishing Group Limited. For permission to use (where not 
already granted under a licence) please go to 
http://group.bmj.com/group/rights-licensing/permissions.

DOI: 10.1136/thoraxjnl-2014-206084
PMID: 25739910 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


888. Asian Cardiovasc Thorac Ann. 2015 Jun;23(5):623-30. doi: 
10.1177/0218492315574197. Epub 2015 Mar 3.

Primary cardiac leiomyosarcoma: an analysis of clinical characteristics and 
outcome patterns.

Wang JG(1), Cui L(2), Jiang T(3), Li YJ(1), Wei ZM(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Pathology, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, 
Qingdao, China.
(2)Department of Nephrology, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, 
Qingdao, China.
(3)Department of Oncology, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, 
Qingdao, China.
(4)Department of Pathology, The Affiliated Hospital of Qingdao University, 
Qingdao, China weizmqyfy@126.com.

BACKGROUND: Primary cardiac leiomyosarcoma is an extremely rare entity. There is 
no accumulated knowledge about the clinical characteristics and therapeutic 
strategies for this tumor. This study aimed to systematically review the 
available literature to investigate the clinicoradiologic and clinicopathologic 
characteristics, treatment, and outcomes in patients with primary cardiac 
leiomyosarcoma.
METHODS: We identified 79 instances derived from 72 unique reports and carefully 
analyzed all clinical presentations, imaging, pathology, treatments, and 
outcomes.
RESULTS: The mean age at onset was 48 years. A symptom of obstruction was the 
most frequent complaint at diagnosis. Routine imaging methods such as 
echocardiography, computed tomography, and magnetic resonance imaging had high 
sensitivity in diagnosis. The tumor has a poorer life expectancy than its 
counterparts in other sites. The 5-year overall survival and recurrence-free 
survival rates were 25.4% and 14.7%, respectively. Overall survival was affected 
by age, surgery, and adjunctive chemotherapy or radiotherapy.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that primary cardiac leiomyosarcomas tend to 
be biologically more aggressive compared to their counterparts in other sites. 
However, complete resection and adjunctive chemotherapy or radiotherapy may help 
to increase the life expectancy.

© The Author(s) 2015 Reprints and permissions: 
sagepub.co.uk/journalsPermissions.nav.

DOI: 10.1177/0218492315574197
PMID: 25740020 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


889. J Bone Joint Surg Am. 2015 Mar 4;97(5):396-402. doi: 10.2106/JBJS.N.00169.

Effect of age on cost-effectiveness of unicompartmental knee arthroplasty 
compared with total knee arthroplasty in the U.S.

Ghomrawi HM(1), Eggman AA(1), Pearle AD(2).

Author information:
(1)Division of Comparative Effectiveness and Outcomes Research, Department of 
Healthcare Policy and Research, Weill Cornell Medical College, 425 East 61st 
Street, Suite 301, New York, NY 10065. E-mail address for H.M. Ghomrawi: 
hag2008@med.cornell.edu. E-mail address for A.A. Eggman: 
ase2005@med.cornell.edu.
(2)Hospital for Special Surgery, 523 East 72nd Street, 7th Floor, New York, NY 
10021. E-mail address: pearlea@hss.edu.

BACKGROUND: Trade-offs between upfront benefits and later risk of revision of 
unicompartmental knee arthroplasty compared with those of total knee 
arthroplasty are poorly understood. The purpose of our study was to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of unicompartmental knee arthroplasty with that of total knee 
arthroplasty across the age spectrum of patients undergoing knee replacement.
METHODS: Using a Markov decision analytic model, we compared unicompartmental 
knee arthroplasty with total knee arthroplasty with regard to lifetime costs, 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs), and incremental cost-effectiveness ratios 
(ICERs) from a societal perspective for patients undergoing surgery at 
forty-five, fifty-five, sixty-five, seventy-five, or eighty-five years of age. 
Transition probabilities were estimated from the literature; survival, from the 
Swedish Knee Arthroplasty Register; and costs, from the literature and the 
Healthcare Cost and Utilization Project (HCUP) database. Costs and QALYs were 
discounted at 3.0% annually. We conducted sensitivity analyses to test the 
robustness of model estimates and threshold analyses.
RESULTS: For patients sixty-five years of age and older, unicompartmental knee 
arthroplasty dominated total knee arthroplasty, with lower lifetime costs and 
higher QALYs. Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty was no longer cost-effective at 
a $100,000/QALY threshold when total knee arthroplasty rehabilitation costs were 
reduced by two-thirds or more for these older patients. Lifetime societal 
savings from utilizing unicompartmental knee arthroplasty in all older patients 
(sixty-five or older) in 2015 and 2020 were $56 to $336 million and $84 to $544 
million, respectively. In the forty-five and fifty-five-year-old age cohorts, 
total knee arthroplasty had an ICER of $30,300/QALY and $63,000/QALY, 
respectively. Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty became cost-effective when its 
twenty-year revision rate dropped from 27.8% to 25.7% for the forty-five-year 
age group and from 27.9% to 26.7% for the fifty-five-year age group.
CONCLUSIONS: Unicompartmental knee arthroplasty is an economically attractive 
alternative in patients sixty-five years of age or older, and modest 
improvements in implant survivorship could make it a cost-effective alternative 
in younger patients.

Copyright © 2015 by The Journal of Bone and Joint Surgery, Incorporated.

DOI: 10.2106/JBJS.N.00169
PMCID: PMC4344593
PMID: 25740030 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


890. Clin Endocrinol (Oxf). 2016 Feb;84(2):284-291. doi: 10.1111/cen.12765. Epub
2015  Mar 30.

The TNM system (version 7) is the most accurate staging system for the 
prediction of loss of life expectancy in differentiated thyroid cancer.

Tanase K(1), Thies ED(1)(2), Mäder U(3), Reiners C(1), Verburg FA(1)(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nuclear Medicine, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(2)Department of Psychiatry, Psychosomatic Medicine and Psychotherapy, 
University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(3)Comprehensive Cancer Center, University of Würzburg, Würzburg, Germany.
(4)Department of Nuclear Medicine, RWTH University Hospital Aachen, Aachen, 
Germany.

OBJECTIVE: Many prognostic systems have been developed for differentiated 
thyroid cancer. It is unclear which one of these performs 'best'. Our aim was to 
compare staging systems applicable to our patient database to identify which 
best predicts DTC-related loss of life expectancy and DTC-specific mortality.
DESIGN: Database study of patients with DTC treated in our centre between 1978 
(earliest available data) up to and including 1 July 2014. All were staged in 
accordance with the AMES, Clinical Class, Memorial Sloan Kettering, Ohio State 
University, TNM versions 5 and 6/7, University of Alabama, University of Münster 
and qTNM systems.
PATIENTS: A total of 2257 patients with differentiated thyroid cancer.
MEASUREMENTS: Loss of life expectancy expressed as relative survival and thyroid 
cancer-specific mortality. Comparison was based on P values of univariate Cox 
regression analyses as well as analysis of the proportion of variance explained 
(PVE).
RESULTS: Median available follow-up time was 7·2 years (range: 0-35·1 years). 
Three hundred and twenty-seven patients died, 149 of whom died of DTC. Version 7 
of the TNM system was best for predicting DTC-related mortality (P = 7·1 × 10-52 
; PVE = 0·296), followed by TNM version 5 (P = 6·7 × 10-44 ; PVE = 0·255). For 
prediction of loss of life expectancy, version 7 of the TNM system was also 
best, closely followed by the Clinical Class system (P both < 2 × 10-16 ).
CONCLUSIONS: The UICC/AJCC TNM system version 7 outperforms other prognostic 
classification systems based on extent of disease at the start of treatment both 
for prediction of differentiated thyroid cancer-related death and for prediction 
of loss life expectancy.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/cen.12765
PMID: 25740466


891. Adv Ther. 2015 Mar;32(3):239-53. doi: 10.1007/s12325-015-0190-8. Epub 2015
Mar  5.

Cost-effectiveness of the 21-gene breast cancer assay in Mexico.

Bargalló-Rocha JE(1), Lara-Medina F, Pérez-Sánchez V, Vázquez-Romo R, 
Villarreal-Garza C, Martínez-Said H, Shaw-Dulin RJ, Mohar-Betancourt A, Hunt B, 
Plun-Favreau J, Valentine WJ.

Author information:
(1)Instituto Nacional de Cancerologia, Mexico City, Mexico.

INTRODUCTION: The 21-gene breast cancer assay (Oncotype DX(®); Genomic Health, 
Inc.) is a validated diagnostic test that predicts the likelihood of adjuvant 
chemotherapy benefit and 10-year risk of distant recurrence in patients with 
hormone-receptor-positive, human epidermal growth receptor 2-negative, 
early-stage breast cancer. The aim of this analysis was to evaluate the 
cost-effectiveness of using the assay to inform adjuvant chemotherapy decisions 
in Mexico.
METHODS: A Markov model was developed to make long-term projections of distant 
recurrence, survival, and direct costs in scenarios using conventional 
diagnostic procedures or the 21-gene assay to inform adjuvant chemotherapy 
recommendations. Transition probabilities and risk adjustment were taken from 
published landmark trials. Costs [2011 Mexican Pesos (MXN)] were estimated from 
an Instituto Mexicano del Seguro Social perspective. Costs and clinical benefits 
were discounted at 5% annually.
RESULTS: Following assay testing, approximately 66% of patients previously 
receiving chemotherapy were recommended to receive hormone therapy only after 
consideration of assay results. Furthermore, approximately 10% of those 
previously allocated hormone therapy alone had their recommendation changed to 
add chemotherapy. This optimized therapy allocation led to improved mean life 
expectancy by 0.068 years per patient and increased direct costs by MXN 1707 
[2011 United States Dollars (USD) 129] per patient versus usual care. This is 
equated to an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) of MXN 25,244 (USD 
1914) per life-year gained.
CONCLUSION: In early-stage breast cancer patients in Mexico, guiding decision 
making on adjuvant therapy using the 21-gene assay was projected to improve life 
expectancy in comparison with the current standard of care, with an ICER of MXN 
25,244 (USD 1914) per life-year gained, which is within the range generally 
considered cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s12325-015-0190-8
PMID: 25740550 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


892. Curr Rheumatol Rep. 2015 Mar;17(3):15. doi: 10.1007/s11926-014-0490-z.

Perioperative management of patients with pulmonary hypertension for non-cardiac 
surgery.

Yang EI(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, Hospital for Special Surgery, New York, NY, 
USA, YangE@HSS.EDU.

Pulmonary hypertension (PH) is associated with significant morbidity and 
mortality. While the advent of disease-modifying therapies in the treatment of 
PH has dramatically increased the life expectancy of these patients, they remain 
at high risk for perioperative complications. Outcome studies suggest that 
patients with PH undergoing non-cardiac surgery have higher morbidity and 
mortality than those without, independent of severity. Despite these risks, more 
and more of these patients are presenting for non-cardiac surgery. Patients with 
rheumatologic disorders in particular often have pulmonary arterial hypertension 
(PAH), a group that is associated with a poorer prognosis. Yet, these patients 
invariably develop debilitating joint diseases and not uncommonly present for 
elective surgery. Preoperatively, patients with PH should be appropriately risk 
stratified based on functional class, etiology, exercise capacity, pulmonary 
hemodynamics, and the risk of surgery. If the risks and benefits assessment 
proves favorable, they should undergo optimization prior to surgery, with any 
chronic therapy continuing without cessation through the perioperative period. A 
multidisciplinary approach involving all intraoperative physicians is imperative 
to forming a safe intraoperative plan based on the inherent physiology 
underlying the patient's disease. Finally, because complications in this patient 
population often occur postoperatively, patients should be monitored in an 
appropriate setting with a goal of preventing right ventricular dysfunction. In 
this review article, we focus on the evaluation, risk stratification, and 
optimization of patients with PH undergoing non-cardiac surgery.

DOI: 10.1007/s11926-014-0490-z
PMID: 25740702 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


893. J Crohns Colitis. 2015 May;9(5):390-7. doi: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjv041. Epub
2015  Mar 4.

Patient-relevant endpoints in inflammatory bowel diseases--have changes occurred 
in Germany over the past twelve years?

Stallmach A(1), Dennler U(2), Marschall U(3), Schmidt C(4).

Author information:
(1)Klinik für Innere Medizin IV, Universitätsklinikum Jena, Jena, Germany 
andreas.stallmach@med.uni-jena.de.
(2)Geschäftsbereich Medizincontrolling, Universitätsklinikum Jena, Jena, 
Germany.
(3)BARMER GEK Hauptverwaltung1100 - Kompetenzzentrum Medizin und 
Versorgungsforschung, Berlin, Germany.
(4)Klinik für Innere Medizin IV, Universitätsklinikum Jena, Jena, Germany.

BACKGROUND AND AIMS: Inflammatory bowel diseases (IBDs) are gaining increasing 
medical as well as economic significance. Improving medical treatment options 
can have a positive effect on number of hospitalized patients, necessary 
operations and the inability to work.
METHODS: To understand patient-relevant endpoints in IBDs, the data for 2000-12 
published by the Federal Statistical Office and the data for 2012 according to 
Article 21 of the Hospital Reimbursement Act in Germany were assessed. In 
addition, data records held by a public health insurance company on the 
medication of IBD patients were evaluated.
RESULTS: During 2000-12, the number of hospitalized IBD patients (ICD 10 K50, 
K51) rose from 38533 to 43452 (+12.7%). The necessity of surgical intervention 
increased during the period under review. The number of people unable to work 
increased differently for Crohn's disease (CD) and ulcerative colitis (UC), by 
2.1 and 9.5%, respectively. Entry of persons into the statutory pension 
insurance system did not decline from 2000 to 2012. The number of potential 
years of life lost (PYLL) in patients with IBD also remained constant during the 
period under review (2017 in 2000-02 versus 2011 in 2010-012). From 2009 to 2013 
the percentage of patients treated with an anti-TNF-antibodies rose (2009, 4.3% 
for CD and 1.4% for UC; 2013, 8.4% for CD and 3.2% for UC).
CONCLUSIONS: An improvement in patient-relevant endpoints was not observed 
between 2000 and 2012 in IBD patients in Germany. Improvements can only be 
achieved through structured and interdisciplinary treatment concepts involving 
all healthcare providers.

Copyright © 2015 European Crohn’s and Colitis Organisation (ECCO). Published by 
Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. For permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ecco-jcc/jjv041
PMID: 25740812 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


894. J Public Health (Oxf). 2016 Mar;38(1):71-5. doi: 10.1093/pubmed/fdv018. Epub
 2015 Mar 3.

Differences in survival and cause-specific mortality in a culturally diverse 
Greek population, 1999-2008.

Nikolaidis C(1), Nena E(1), Agorastakis M(2), Constantinidis TC(1).

Author information:
(1)Laboratory of Hygiene and Environmental Protection, Medical Department, 
Democritus University of Thrace, Alexandroupolis 68100, Greece.
(2)Laboratory of Demographic Analysis, Department of Planning and Regional 
Development, University of Thessaly, Volos 38334, Greece.

BACKGROUND: Modern urban populations exhibit considerable internal 
heterogeneity. Several social groups, such as ethnic minorities or immigrants, 
constitute individual clusters with different demographic and epidemiological 
characteristics.
METHODS: Death records were collected from the Municipality Registry between 
1999 and 2008. Kaplan-Meier survival analysis was conducted for (i) natively 
born Greeks, (ii) former USSR-repatriated Greeks and (iii) Roma. Further 
evaluation was conducted by log-rank (Mantel-Cox) test. Relative mortality rates 
were assessed by means of cross-tabulation (Pearson's χ(2)).
RESULTS: Statistically significant differences in median survival were observed 
among the three social groups (P < 0.001). The relative mortality from 
infectious diseases was higher in the Roma population compared with natively 
born Greeks, odds ratio (OR) = 8.31 [confidence interval (CI) 95% 3.19-21.61]. 
More than 70% of these deaths were attributed to respiratory tract infections 
and were associated with children under the age of 5. Excess mortality due to 
external causes, injuries and substance abuse was observed in repatriated males 
compared with their natively born counterparts, OR = 2.27 (CI 95% 1.35-3.81).
CONCLUSIONS: Specific public health interventions are required, to improve the 
survival of different cultural groups. For example, improvement of immunization 
status and increase in overall hygiene awareness can ameliorate high 
infant/childhood mortality in Roma population, while social integration can help 
reduce acculturation-related mortality among repatriated Greeks.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of Faculty of 
Public Health. All rights reserved. For permissions, please e-mail: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/pubmed/fdv018
PMID: 25740904 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


895. Front Plant Sci. 2015 Feb 17;6:74. doi: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00074. eCollection
 2015.

Characterization of the serine acetyltransferase gene family of Vitis vinifera 
uncovers differences in regulation of OAS synthesis in woody plants.

Tavares S(1), Wirtz M(2), Beier MP(2), Bogs J(3), Hell R(2), Amâncio S(4).

Author information:
(1)Linking Landscape, Environment, Agriculture and Food (LEAF), Instituto 
Superior de Agronomia, Universidade de Lisboa Lisbon, Portugal ; Plant Cell 
Biology Laboratory, Instituto de Tecnologia Química e Biológica, Universidade 
Nova de Lisboa Oeiras, Portugal.
(2)Centre for Organismal Studies Heidelberg, University of Heidelberg 
Heidelberg, Germany.
(3)Centre for Organismal Studies Heidelberg, University of Heidelberg 
Heidelberg, Germany ; Studiengang Weinbau und Oenologie, Dienstleistungszentrum 
Laendlicher Raum Rheinpfalz Neustadt, Germany ; Fachbereich 1, Life Sciences and 
Engineering, Fachhochschule Bingen Bingen am Rhein, Germany.
(4)Linking Landscape, Environment, Agriculture and Food (LEAF), Instituto 
Superior de Agronomia, Universidade de Lisboa Lisbon, Portugal.

In higher plants cysteine biosynthesis is catalyzed by 
O-acetylserine(thiol)lyase (OASTL) and represents the last step of the 
assimilatory sulfate reduction pathway. It is mainly regulated by provision of 
O-acetylserine (OAS), the nitrogen/carbon containing backbone for fixation of 
reduced sulfur. OAS is synthesized by Serine acetyltransferase (SERAT), which 
reversibly interacts with OASTL in the cysteine synthase complex (CSC). In this 
study we identify and characterize the SERAT gene family of the crop plant Vitis 
vinifera. The identified four members of the VvSERAT protein family are assigned 
to three distinct groups upon their sequence similarities to Arabidopsis SERATs. 
Expression of fluorescently labeled VvSERAT proteins uncover that the 
sub-cellular localization of VvSERAT1;1 and VvSERAT3;1 is the cytosol and that 
VvSERAT2;1 and VvSERAT2;2 localize in addition in plastids and mitochondria, 
respectively. The purified VvSERATs of group 1 and 2 have higher enzymatic 
activity than VvSERAT3;1, which display a characteristic C-terminal extension 
also present in AtSERAT3;1. VvSERAT1;1 and VvSERAT2;2 are evidenced to form the 
CSC. CSC formation activates VvSERAT2;2, by releasing CSC-associated VvSERAT2;2 
from cysteine inhibition. Thus, subcellular distribution of SERAT isoforms and 
CSC formation in cytosol and mitochondria is conserved between Arabidopsis and 
grapevine. Surprisingly, VvSERAT2;1 lack the canonical C-terminal tail of plant 
SERATs, does not form the CSC and is almost insensitive to cysteine inhibition 
(IC50 = 1.9 mM cysteine). Upon sulfate depletion VvSERAT2;1 is strongly induced 
at the transcriptional level, while transcription of other VvSERATs is almost 
unaffected in sulfate deprived grapevine cell suspension cultures. Application 
of abiotic stresses to soil grown grapevine plants revealed isoform-specific 
induction of VvSERAT2;1 in leaves upon drought, whereas high light- or 
temperature- stress hardly trigger VvSERAT2;1 transcription.

DOI: 10.3389/fpls.2015.00074
PMCID: PMC4330696
PMID: 25741355


896. Rev Saude Publica. 2015;49:13. doi: 10.1590/s0034-8910.2015049005430. Epub
2015  Feb 27.

Cyclosporine versus tacrolimus: cost-effectiveness analysis for renal 
transplantation in Brazil.

Guerra Júnior AA, Silva GD, Andrade EI, Cherchiglia ML, Costa Jde O, Almeida AM, 
Acurcio Fde A.

Erratum in
    Rev Saude Publica. 2015;49. pii: S0034-89102015000100209. doi: 
10.1590/S0034-8910.2015049005430err.

OBJECTIVE To analyze the cost-effectiveness of treatment regimens with 
cyclosporine or tacrolimus, five years after renal transplantation. METHODS This 
cost-effectiveness analysis was based on historical cohort data obtained between 
2000 and 2004 and involved 2,022 patients treated with cyclosporine or 
tacrolimus, matched 1:1 for gender, age, and type and year of transplantation. 
Graft survival and the direct costs of medical care obtained from the National 
Health System (SUS) databases were used as outcome results. RESULTS Most of the 
patients were women, with a mean age of 36.6 years. The most frequent diagnosis 
of chronic renal failure was glomerulonephritis/nephritis (27.7%). In five 
years, the tacrolimus group had an average life expectancy gain of 3.96 years at 
an annual cost of R$78,360.57 compared with the cyclosporine group with a gain 
of 4.05 years and an annual cost of R$61,350.44. CONCLUSIONS After matching, the 
study indicated better survival of patients treated with regimens using 
tacrolimus. Moreover, regimens containing cyclosporine were more cost-effective 
[corrected].

OBJETIVO: Analisar custo-efetividade de regimes terapêuticos com ciclosporina ou 
tacrolimo cinco anos após transplante renal.
MÉTODOS: Análise de custo-efetividade com base em dados de coorte histórica 
2000-2004, com 2.022 pacientes tratados com ciclosporina ou tacrolimo e pareados 
1:1 segundo sexo, idade, tipo e ano de transplante. A sobrevida do enxerto e os 
custos diretos de cuidados médicos a partir das bases de dados do Sistema Único 
de Saúde foram utilizados como medida de resultado.
RESULTADOS: A maioria dos pacientes era do sexo feminino e média de idade de 
36,6 anos. O diagnóstico mais frequente de insuficiência renal crônica foi a 
glomerulonefrite/nefrite (27,7%). Em cinco anos, o grupo tacrolimo obteve uma 
expectativa de vida média de 3,96 anos de vida ganhos ao custo anual de 
R$78.360,57 ante 4,05 anos de vida ganhos e de R$61.350,44 para ciclosporina.
CONCLUSÕES: Após o pareamento, o estudo não mostrou melhor sobrevida dos 
pacientes com regimes que usam tacrolimo. Além disso, regimes contendo 
ciclosporina foram mais custo-efetivos.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-8910.2015049005430
PMCID: PMC4386555
PMID: 25741648 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


897. Rev Saude Publica. 2015;49:1. doi: 10.1590/s0034-8910.2015049005472. Epub
2015  Feb 27.

Trends in healthy life expectancy among older Brazilian women between 1998 and 
2008.

Nepomuceno MR, Turra CM.

OBJECTIVE To analyze conditional and unconditional healthy life expectancy among 
older Brazilian women. METHODS This cross-sectional study used the intercensal 
technique to estimate, in the absence of longitudinal data, healthy life 
expectancy that is conditional and unconditional on the individual's current 
health status. The data used were obtained from the Pesquisa Nacional por 
Amostra de Domicílios (National Household Sample Survey) of 1998, 2003, and 
2008. This sample comprised 11,171; 13,694; and 16,259 women aged 65 years or 
more, respectively. Complete mortality tables from the Brazilian Institute of 
Geography and Statistics for the years 2001 and 2006 were also used. The 
definition of health status was based on the difficulty in performing activities 
of daily living. RESULTS The remaining lifetime was strongly dependent on the 
current health status of the older women. Between 1998 and 2003, the amount of 
time lived with disability for healthy women at age 65 was 9.8%. This percentage 
increased to 66.2% when the women already presented some disability at age 65. 
Temporal analysis showed that the active life expectancy of the women at age 65 
increased between 1998-2003 (19.3 years) and 2003-2008 (19.4 years). However, 
life years gained have been mainly focused on the unhealthy state. CONCLUSIONS 
Analysis of conditional and unconditional life expectancy indicated that live 
years gained are a result of the decline of mortality in unhealthy states. This 
pattern suggests that there has been no reduction in morbidity among older women 
in Brazil between 1998 and 2008.

OBJETIVO: Analisar a expectativa de vida saudável condicional e não condicional 
de idosas brasileiras.
MÉTODOS: Estudo transversal, utilizando a técnica intercensitária, para estimar, 
na ausência de dados longitudinais, a expectativa de vida saudável não 
condicional e condicional ao estado de saúde corrente do indivíduo. Os dados 
utilizados foram obtidos da Pesquisa Nacional por Amostra de Domicílios de 1998, 
2003 e 2008, cuja amostra foi composta, respectivamente, por 11.171, 13.694 e 
16.259 mulheres com idade igual ou superior a 65 anos. Foram utilizadas, também, 
tábuas completas de mortalidade do Instituto Brasileiro de Geografia e 
Estatística, para os anos de 2001 e 2006. A definição dos estados de saúde 
baseou-se na dificuldade em realizar as atividades de vida diária.
RESULTADOS: O tempo de vida remanescente apresentou forte dependência com o 
estado de saúde corrente das idosas. No período 1998-2003, a proporção do tempo 
a ser vivido com incapacidade por mulheres saudáveis aos 65 anos era de 9,8%. 
Esse percentual aumentou para 66,2% quando as mulheres aos 65 anos já 
apresentavam alguma incapacidade. A análise temporal mostrou que a expectativa 
de vida ativa das mulheres aos 65 anos aumentou entre 1998-2003 (19,3 anos) e 
2003-2008 (19,4 anos). No entanto, ganhos de vida se concentraram, sobretudo, no 
estado não saudável.
CONCLUSÕES: A análise da expectativa de vida condicional e não condicional 
indica concentração dos ganhos de vida, provenientes do declínio da mortalidade, 
em estados não saudáveis. Esse padrão sugere que não houve redução da morbidade 
entre as idosas brasileiras entre 1998 e 2008.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-8910.2015049005472
PMCID: PMC4386550
PMID: 25741653 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


898. J Occup Environ Med. 2015 Jun;57(6):666-75. doi:
10.1097/JOM.0000000000000423.

Economic Evaluation of a Web-Based Guided Self-Help Intervention for Employees 
With Depressive Symptoms: Results of a Randomized Controlled Trial.

Geraedts AS(1), van Dongen JM, Kleiboer AM, Wiezer NM, van Mechelen W, Cuijpers 
P, Bosmans JE.

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Clinical Psychology and EMGO Institute for Health and 
Care Research (Drs Geraedts, Kleiboer, and Cuijpers), VU University Amsterdam; 
Body@Work Research Center Physical Activity, Work and Health (Drs Geraedts, 
Kleiboer, Wiezer, van Mechelen, and Cuijpers), TNO-VU-VUmc, Amsterdam; 
Department of Health Sciences and EMGO Institute for Health and Care Research 
(Drs van Dongen and Bosmans), VU University Amsterdam; TNO (Dr Wiezer), 
Hoofddorp; and Department of Public and Occupational Health Psychology and EMGO 
Institute for Health and Care Research (Dr van Mechelen), VU University Medical 
Center, Amsterdam, the Netherlands.

OBJECTIVE: To evaluate the cost-effectiveness of a Web-based guided intervention 
compared with care as usual for employees with depressive symptoms.
METHODS: A total of 231 employees with depressive symptoms were randomized. Data 
were collected at baseline, 8 weeks, 6 months, and 12 months. Analyses were 
conducted from the societal and employer's perspective.
RESULTS: At 12 months, a significant intervention effect on depressive symptoms 
was found. At a willingness to pay of 0 (€/unit of effect), the intervention's 
probabilities of cost-effectiveness were 0.62 (societal perspective) and 0.55 
(employer's perspective). There was a 0.63 probability that the intervention 
resulted in a positive financial return for the employer.
CONCLUSIONS: The intervention's cost-effectiveness with regard to depressive 
symptoms depends on the willingness to pay of societal and company decision 
makers as well as the probability of cost-effectiveness that they consider 
acceptable. The intervention is not cost-saving to the employer.

DOI: 10.1097/JOM.0000000000000423
PMID: 25741795 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


899. JAMA Ophthalmol. 2015 May;133(5):560-7. doi: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2015.44.

Comparative Cost-effectiveness of the Baerveldt Implant, Trabeculectomy With 
Mitomycin, and Medical Treatment.

Kaplan RI(1), De Moraes CG(1), Cioffi GA(1), Al-Aswad LA(1), Blumberg DM(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, Edward Harkness Eye Institute, Columbia 
University, New York, New York.

IMPORTANCE: The Tube vs Trabeculectomy Trial (TVT) found that the 350-mm2 
Baerveldt implant (tube) and trabeculectomy with mitomycin may be similarly 
effective in lowering intraocular pressure in primary open-angle glaucoma. 
However, to date, there are no published long-term clinical data on the 
cost-effectiveness of trabeculectomy with mitomycin vs tube insertion.
OBJECTIVE: To assess the cost-effectiveness of these procedures compared with 
maximal medical treatment.
DESIGN, SETTING, AND PARTICIPANTS: We used the Markov cohort model with a 5-year 
time horizon to study a hypothetical cohort of 100 000 patients who required 
glaucoma surgery.
MAIN OUTCOMES AND MEASURES: Quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) gained, costs 
from the societal perspective, and the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of 
medical treatment, trabeculectomy, and tube insertion. Costs were identified 
from Medicare Current Procedural Terminology and Ambulatory Payment 
Classification reimbursement codes and Red Book medication costs. The QALYs were 
based on visual field and visual acuity outcomes. The hypothetical societal 
limit to resources was included using a willingness-to-pay threshold of $50 000 
per QALY. Costs and utilities were discounted at 3% per year. Uncertainty was 
assessed using deterministic sensitivity analyses.
RESULTS: The mean costs for medical treatment, trabeculectomy, and tube 
insertion were $6172, $7872 and $10 075, respectively; these amounts resulted in 
a cost difference of $1700 (95% CI, $1644-$1770) for medical treatment vs 
trabeculectomy, $3904 (95% CI, $3858-$3953) for medical treatment vs tube 
insertion, and $2203 (95% CI, $2121-$2261) for trabeculectomy vs tube insertion. 
The mean 5-year probability of blindness was 4% for both surgical procedures and 
15% for medical treatment. The utility gained after medical treatment, 
trabeculectomy, and tube insertion was 3.10, 3.30, and 3.38 QALYs, respectively. 
The incremental cost-effectiveness ratio was $8289 per QALY for trabeculectomy 
vs medical treatment, $13 896 per QALY for tube insertion vs medical treatment, 
and $29 055 per QALY for tube insertion vs trabeculectomy. The 
cost-effectiveness of each surgical procedure was most sensitive to early and 
late surgical failure rates and was minimally affected by adverse events, rates 
of visual field progression, or medication costs.
CONCLUSIONS AND RELEVANCE: Assuming a willingness to pay of $50 000 per QALY, 
trabeculectomy and tube insertion are cost-effective compared with medical 
treatment alone. Trabeculectomy, however, is cost-effective at a substantially 
lower cost per QALY compared with tube insertion. More research is necessary to 
reliably account for patient preferences between the 2 operations.

DOI: 10.1001/jamaophthalmol.2015.44
PMID: 25741886 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


900. PLoS One. 2015 Mar 5;10(3):e0119429. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0119429. 
eCollection 2015.

Two adenine nucleotide translocase paralogues involved in cell proliferation and 
spermatogenesis in the silkworm Bombyx mori.

Sugahara R(1), Jouraku A(2), Nakakura T(1), Kusakabe T(3), Yamamoto T(4), 
Shinohara Y(4), Miyoshi H(5), Shiotsuki T(1).

Author information:
(1)Insect Growth Regulation Research Unit, National Institute of Agrobiological 
Sciences, Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(2)Insect Genome Research Unit, National Institute of Agrobiological Sciences, 
Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(3)Laboratory of Silkworm Science, Kyushu University Graduate School of 
Bioresource and Bioenvironmental Sciences, Fukuoka, Japan.
(4)Institute for Genome Research, University of Tokushima, Tokushima, Japan.
(5)Division of Applied Life Sciences, Graduate School of Agriculture, Kyoto 
University, Kyoto, Japan.

Mitochondrial adenine nucleotide translocase (ANT) specifically acts in ADP/ATP 
exchange through the mitochondrial inner membrane. This transporter protein 
thereby plays a significant role in energy metabolism in eukaryotic cells. Most 
mammals have four paralogous ANT genes (ANT1-4) and utilize these paralogues in 
different types of cells. The fourth paralogue of ANT (ANT4) is present only in 
mammals and reptiles and is exclusively expressed in testicular germ cells where 
it is required for meiotic progression in the spermatocytes. Here, we report 
that silkworms harbor two ANT paralogues, the homeostatic paralogue (BmANTI1) 
and the testis-specific paralogue (BmANTI2). The BmANTI2 protein has an 
N-terminal extension in which the positions of lysine residues in the amino acid 
sequence are distributed as in human ANT4. An expression analysis showed that 
BmANTI2 transcripts were restricted to the testis, suggesting the protein has a 
role in the progression of spermatogenesis. By contrast, BmANTI1 was expressed 
in all tissues tested, suggesting it has an important role in homeostasis. We 
also observed that cultured silkworm cells required BmANTI1 for proliferation. 
The ANTI1 protein of the lepidopteran Plutella xylostella (PxANTI1), but not 
those of other insect species (or PxANTI2), restored cell proliferation in 
BmANTI1-knockdown cells suggesting that ANTI1 has similar energy metabolism 
functions across the Lepidoptera. Our results suggest that BmANTI2 is 
evolutionarily divergent from BmANTI1 and has developed a specific role in 
spermatogenesis similar to that of mammalian ANT4.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0119429
PMCID: PMC4351007
PMID: 25742135 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.901. J Clin Psychiatry. 2015 Feb;76(2):163-9. doi: 10.4088/JCP.14m09300.

Excessive and premature new-onset cardiovascular disease among adults with 
bipolar disorder in the US NESARC cohort.

Goldstein BI(1), Schaffer A, Wang S, Blanco C.

Author information:
(1)Department of Psychiatry, Sunnybrook Health Sciences Centre, 2075 Bayview 
Ave, Toronto, Ontario, M4N-3M5 benjamin.goldstein@sunnybrook.ca.

BACKGROUND: Cross-sectional studies demonstrate increased prevalence of 
cardiovascular disease (CVD) among adults with bipolar disorder. However, there 
is a paucity of prospective data regarding new-onset CVD among adults with 
bipolar disorder.
METHOD: Analyses compared the 3-year incidence of CVD (via participant-reported 
physician diagnoses) among participants with DSM-IV diagnoses of bipolar I 
disorder (n = 1,047), bipolar II disorder (n = 392), major depressive disorder 
(MDD; n = 4,396), or controls (n = 26,266), who completed Wave 1 (2001-2002) and 
Wave 2 (2004-2005) of the National Epidemiologic Survey on Alcohol and Related 
Conditions (NESARC). Analyses also compared the age of participants with 
new-onset CVD across groups. Multivariable analyses controlled for age, sex, 
race, cigarette smoking, hypertension, obesity, and alcohol and drug use 
disorders.
RESULTS: The 3-year incidence of CVD among adults with bipolar I disorder, 
bipolar II disorder, MDD, and among controls was 6.30%, 5.74%, 3.98%, and 3.70%, 
respectively. The covariate-adjusted incidence of CVD was significantly greater 
among participants with bipolar I and II disorders versus controls and versus 
participants with MDD. Adjusted odds ratios (95% CI) were 2.58 (1.84-3.61; P < 
.0001) for bipolar I disorder vs controls; 2.76 (1.60-4.74; P = .0004) for 
bipolar II disorder vs controls; 2.11 (1.46-3.04; P = .0001) for bipolar I 
disorder vs MDD; 2.25 (1.26-4.01; P = .007) for bipolar II disorder vs MDD; and 
1.22 (0.99-1.51; P = .06) for MDD vs controls. Bipolar I disorder participants 
with new-onset CVD were 10.70 ± 2.77 years younger than MDD participants with 
new-onset CVD and 16.78 ± 2.51 years younger than controls. Bipolar II disorder 
participants with new-onset CVD were 7.92 ± 3.27 years younger than MDD 
participants with new-onset CVD and 13.99 ± 2.79 years younger than controls.
DISCUSSION: Adults with bipolar disorder are at significantly and meaningfully 
increased risk to develop CVD over the course of 3 years, even as compared to 
adults with MDD, and despite controlling for multiple potential confounds. 
Combined with very early age of CVD onset, this finding underscores the need for 
early and assertive CVD prevention strategies for people with bipolar disorder.

© Copyright 2015 Physicians Postgraduate Press, Inc.

DOI: 10.4088/JCP.14m09300
PMID: 25742203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


902. Diabetes Ther. 2015 Mar;6(1):61-74. doi: 10.1007/s13300-015-0103-5. Epub
2015  Mar 6.

Cost-Effectiveness Analysis of Incretin Therapy for Type 2 Diabetes in Spain: 
1.8 mg Liraglutide Versus Sitagliptin.

Pérez A(1), Mezquita Raya P, Ramírez de Arellano A, Briones T, Hunt B, Valentine 
WJ.

Author information:
(1)Hospital de la Santa Creu i Sant Pau, Barcelona, Spain.

OBJECTIVES: Metformin is the first-line therapy for most patients with type 2 
diabetes, but the majority require treatment intensification at some stage due 
to the progressive nature of the disease. The 1860-LIRA-DPP-4 trial showed that 
liraglutide exhibited greater improvements compared with sitagliptin in glycated 
hemoglobin and body mass index in patients with type 2 diabetes inadequately 
controlled on metformin monotherapy. As a follow-up to a previously published 
cost-effectiveness analysis of 1.2 mg liraglutide versus sitagliptin in Spain, 
the aim of this analysis was to compare long-term projections of the clinical 
and cost implications associated with 1.8 mg liraglutide and sitagliptin.
METHODS: For the modeling analysis, 52-week treatment effect data (as opposed to 
26-week data in the previous analysis) were taken from the 1860-LIRA-DPP-4 
trial, for adults with type 2 diabetes receiving 1.8 mg liraglutide or 100 mg 
sitagliptin daily in addition to metformin. Long-term (patient lifetime) 
projections of clinical outcomes and direct costs (2012 EUR) were made using a 
published and validated model of type 2 diabetes, with modeling assumptions as 
per the 1.2 mg liraglutide analysis.
RESULTS: Liraglutide was associated with increased life expectancy (14.24 versus 
13.87 years) and quality-adjusted life expectancy [9.24 versus 
8.84 quality-adjusted life years (QALYs)] over sitagliptin. Improved clinical 
outcomes were attributable to the improvement in glycemic control, leading to a 
reduced incidence of diabetes-related complications, including renal disease, 
cardiovascular disease, ophthalmic and diabetic foot complications. Liraglutide 
was associated with increased direct costs (EUR 56,628 versus EUR 52,450), 
driven by increased pharmacy costs. Based on these estimates, liraglutide was 
associated with an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of EUR 10,436 per QALY 
gained versus sitagliptin.
CONCLUSIONS: A previous analysis has suggested that 1.2 mg liraglutide is 
cost-effective from a healthcare payer perspective in Spain, and the present 
analysis suggests that the 1.8 mg dose is also likely to be cost-effective.

DOI: 10.1007/s13300-015-0103-5
PMCID: PMC4374077
PMID: 25742705


903. Asian Pac J Cancer Prev. 2015;16(4):1409-13. doi:
10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.4.1409.

Epidemiology and trend of cancers in the province of Kerman: southeast of Iran.

Keyghobadi N(1), Rafiemanesh H, Mohammadian-Hafshejani A, Enayatrad M, 
Salehiniya H.

Author information:
(1)Department of Biostatistics and Epidemiology, Faculty of Health, Sahib 
Sadoughi University of Medical Sciences, Yazd, Iran E-mail : 
alesaleh70@yahoo.com.

BACKGROUND: According to increase in elderly populations, and change in 
lifestyle and cancer-causing behavior, the global burden of cancer is 
increasing. For prevention and control of disease, knowledge of population 
statistics of cancers and their trends is essential. This study aimed to 
investigate the epidemiology and trends of cancer in the province of Kerman: 
southeast of Iran.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: This analytical and cross-sectional study was carried out 
based on cancer registry data at the Disease Management Center of the Health 
Ministry from 2004 to 2009 in the province of Kerman in Iran. Common cancers 
were defined as the number of reported cases and standardized incidence rates. 
To compute the annual percentage change (APC), joinpoint 4.1.1.1 software was 
applied.
RESULTS: Of 10,595 registered cases, 45.3% (4802 cases) were in women and 56.7% 
(5,793 cases) occurred in men. The standardized incidence rates for both females 
and males were increasing during the six years studied. The most common cancers 
in both sexes during six years of studied were skin (13.4%), breast (9.35%), 
bladder (7.8%), stomach (7.45%), leukemia (7.05%), colorectal(5.57%), 
lung(4.92%), trachea(3.51%) and prostate(2.48%).
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings revealed that the cancer incidence is demonstrating 
increasing trends in both sexes in the province of Kerman. This may be because 
of changes in lifestyle, increasing exposure to risk factors for cancer and 
increase of life expectancy. If this is the case, increasing public awareness of 
cancer risk factors is a high priority, together with introduction of 
large-scale screening techniques.

DOI: 10.7314/apjcp.2015.16.4.1409
PMID: 25743807 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


904. Nat Commun. 2015 Mar 6;6:6457. doi: 10.1038/ncomms7457.

Visually induced initiation of Drosophila innate courtship-like following 
pursuit is mediated by central excitatory state.

Kohatsu S(1), Yamamoto D(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Neurogenetics, Tohoku University Graduate School of Life 
Sciences, 2-1-1 Katahira, Sendai 980-8577, Japan.

The courtship ritual of male Drosophila represents an innate behaviour that is 
initiated by female-derived sensory stimuli. Here we report that moving light 
spots can induce courtship-like following pursuit in tethered wild-type male 
flies provided the fly is primed by optogenetic stimulation of specific 
dsx-expressing neuronal clusters in the lateral protocerebrum (LPR). Namely, 
stimulation of the pC1 neuronal cluster initiates unilateral wing extension and 
vibration of both sides, whereas stimulation of the pC2l cluster initiates only 
contralateral wing displays. In addition, stimulation of pC2l but not pC1 
neurons induced abdominal bending and proboscis extension. Ca(2+) imaging of the 
pC1 cluster revealed periodic Ca(2+) rises, each corresponding to a turn of the 
male fly during courtship. In contrast, group-reared fru mutant males exhibit 
light spot-induced courtship pursuit without optogenetic priming. Ca(2+) imaging 
revealed enhanced responses of LPR neurons to visual stimuli in the mutants, 
suggesting a neural correlate of the light spot-induced courtship behaviour.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms7457
PMID: 25743851 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


905. Ann Indian Acad Neurol. 2015 Jan-Mar;18(1):96-8. doi:
10.4103/0972-2327.144299.

Subacute sclerosing panencephalitis in a child with human immunodeficiency virus 
(HIV) infection on antiretroviral therapy.

Muthusamy K(1), Yoganathan S(1), Thomas MM(1), Alexander M(1), Verghese VP(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurological Sciences, Christian Medical College, Vellore, 
Tamil Nadu, India.
(2)Department of Child Health, Christian Medical College, Vellore, Tamil Nadu, 
India.

Subacute Sclerosing Panencephalitis (SSPE) in HIV-infected children is a 
scarcely reported entity with previous reports describing fulminant course. The 
impact of highly active antiretroviral therapy (HAART) in altering its course 
remains unknown. We describe a child with HIV infection, who developed measles 
at 5 months of age and later developed SSPE at 14 years of age, remaining stable 
