into long-term clinical benefit. The treatment course (three infusions at weeks 
0, 2, and 4) is associated with manageable side effects. Short-term markers of 
future benefit would be clinically useful, and information on effective 
treatment combinations or sequences is awaited. Sipuleucel-T treatment directs 
the patient's own immune system to target and remove prostate cancer cells and 
increases life expectancy. Patients whose cancer is less advanced generally have 
a more 'active' immune system and may benefit the most from this treatment.

DOI: 10.1007/s00262-015-1707-3
PMCID: PMC4456994
PMID: 26025563 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


727. Chemosphere. 2015 Nov;139:9-17. doi: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2015.05.041. Epub
 2015 May 27.

A high throughput passive dosing format for the Fish Embryo Acute Toxicity test.

Vergauwen L(1), Schmidt SN(2), Stinckens E(3), Maho W(4), Blust R(5), Mayer 
P(2), Covaci A(4), Knapen D(3).

Author information:
(1)Zebrafishlab, Veterinary Physiology and Biochemistry, Department of 
Veterinary Sciences, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Wilrijk, 
Belgium. Electronic address: lucia.vergauwen@uantwerpen.be.
(2)Department of Environmental Engineering, Technical University of Denmark, 
Miljoevej 113, 2800 Kgs. Lyngby, Denmark.
(3)Zebrafishlab, Veterinary Physiology and Biochemistry, Department of 
Veterinary Sciences, University of Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Wilrijk, 
Belgium.
(4)Toxicological Centre, Department of Pharmaceutical Sciences, University of 
Antwerp, Universiteitsplein 1, 2610 Wilrijk, Belgium.
(5)Systemic Physiological and Ecotoxicological Research (SPHERE), Department of 
Biology, University of Antwerp, Groenenborgerlaan 171, 2020 Antwerpen, Belgium.

High throughput testing according to the Fish Embryo Acute Toxicity (FET) test 
(OECD Testing Guideline 236) is usually conducted in well plates. In the case of 
hydrophobic test substances, sorptive and evaporative losses often result in 
declining and poorly controlled exposure conditions. Therefore, our objective 
was to improve exposure conditions in FET tests by evaluating a passive dosing 
format using silicone O-rings in standard 24-well polystyrene plates. We exposed 
zebrafish embryos to a series of phenanthrene concentrations until 120h post 
fertilization (hpf), and obtained a linear dilution series. We report effect 
values for both mortality and sublethal morphological effects based on (1) 
measured exposure concentrations, (2) (lipid normalized) body residues and (3) 
chemical activity. The LC50 for 120hpf was 310μg/L, CBR50 (critical body 
residue) was 2.72mmol/kg fresh wt and La50 (lethal chemical activity) was 0.047. 
All values were within ranges expected for baseline toxicity. Impaired swim 
bladder inflation was the most pronounced morphological effect and swimming 
activity was reduced in all exposure concentrations. Further analysis showed 
that the effect on swimming activity was not attributed to impaired swim bladder 
inflation, but rather to baseline toxicity. We conclude that silicone O-rings 
(1) produce a linear dilution series of phenanthrene in the 120hpf FET test, (2) 
generate and maintain aqueous concentrations for reliable determination of 
effect concentrations, and allow for obtaining mechanistic toxicity information, 
and (3) cause no toxicity, demonstrating its potential as an extension of the 
FET test when testing hydrophobic chemicals.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.chemosphere.2015.05.041
PMID: 26026258 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


728. Drug Alcohol Depend. 2015 Aug 1;153:293-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2015.05.004. Epub 2015 May 14.

An economic evaluation of a contingency-management intervention for stimulant 
use among community mental health patients with serious mental illness.

Murphy SM(1), McDonell MG(2), McPherson S(3), Srebnik D(4), Angelo F(2), Roll 
JM(3), Ries RK(2).

Author information:
(1)Program of Excellence in Addictions Research, Washington State University, 
Spokane, WA 99210, USA. Electronic address: sean.murphy@wsu.edu.
(2)Department of Psychiatry and Behavioral Sciences, University of Washington 
School of Medicine, Seattle, WA 98195, USA.
(3)Program of Excellence in Addictions Research, Washington State University, 
Spokane, WA 99210, USA.
(4)King County Mental Health, Chemical Abuse and Dependency Services Division, 
Seattle, WA 98104, USA.

BACKGROUND: This study examines the cost-effectiveness of contingency-management 
(CM) for stimulant dependence among community mental health patients with 
serious mental illness (SMI) METHODS: Economic evaluation of a 12-week 
randomized controlled trial investigating the efficacy of CM added to 
treatment-as-usual (CM+TAU), relative to TAU without CM, for treating stimulant 
dependence among patients with a SMI. The trial included 176 participants 
diagnosed with SMI and stimulant dependency who were receiving community mental 
health and addiction treatment at one community mental health center in Seattle, 
Washington. Participants were also assessed during a 12-week follow-up period. 
Positive and negative syndrome scale (PANSS) scores were used to calculate 
quality-adjusted life-years (QALYs) for the primary economic outcome. The 
primary clinical outcome, the stimulant-free year (SFY) is a weighted measure of 
time free from stimulants. Two perspectives were adopted, those of the provider 
and the payer.
RESULTS: At 12-weeks neither the provider ($2652, p=0.74) nor the payer ($2611, 
p=0.99) cost differentials were statistically significant. This was also true 
for the payer at 24-weeks (-$125, p=1.00). QALYs gained were similar across 
groups, resulting in small, insignificant differences (0.04, p=0.23 at 12-weeks; 
0.01, p=0.70 at 24 weeks). CM+TAU experienced significantly more SFYs, 0.24 
(p<0.001) at 12 weeks and 0.20 (p=0.002) at 24 weeks, resulting in at least an 
85% chance of being considered cost-effective at a threshold of $200,000/SFY.
CONCLUSION: Contingency management appears to be a wise investment for both the 
provider and the payer with regard to the clinical outcome of time free from 
stimulants.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.drugalcdep.2015.05.004
PMCID: PMC4509830
PMID: 26026494 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


729. Mol Cell Biochem. 2015 Sep;407(1-2):29-40. doi: 10.1007/s11010-015-2451-x.
Epub  2015 May 31.

Response of endothelial cells and pericytes to hypoxia and erythropoietin in a 
co-culture assay dedicated to soft tissue repair.

Schneider G(1), Bubel M, Pohlemann T, Oberringer M.

Author information:
(1)Department of Trauma-, Hand- and Reconstructive Surgery, Saarland University, 
Kirrberger Strasse, Bldng. 57, 66421, Homburg, Germany.

The increasing mean life expectancy of the citizens of the western world 
countries leads to an increase of the age-related diseases, among them soft 
tissue defects exhibiting inadequate healing. In order to develop new 
therapeutic strategies to support disturbed soft tissue repair, there is a 
strong need of sophisticated in vitro assays. A new assay combining scratch 
wounding with co-cultures of primary human microvascular endothelial cells 
(HDMEC) and pericytes (HPC) focuses on basic characteristics of cell interaction 
against the background of soft tissue repair. The cell parameters proliferation, 
migration and differentiation, and the release of monocyte chemoattractant 
protein-1 (MCP-1) were analysed in response to hypoxia (pO2 < 5 mmHg) and to 
erythropoietin (EPO; 50 IU/ml), a glycoprotein hormone having shown promising 
effects in soft tissue repair. As basic characteristics of the assay, direct 
cell contact in co-culture led to a weakened proliferation of both cell types, 
an increase of the percentage of myofibroblast-like pericytes and to a higher 
release of MCP-1. Hypoxia caused a proliferation decrease of HPC in co-culture, 
which was slightly attenuated by EPO. Hypoxia also reduced the MCP-1 release of 
co-cultured cells, when EPO had been added. In addition, EPO had a rather 
positive effect on HPC migration under hypoxia. These in vitro results allow new 
insights into the interaction of pericytes with endothelial cells in the context 
of soft tissue repair.

DOI: 10.1007/s11010-015-2451-x
PMID: 26026617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


730. Diabetes Res Clin Pract. 2015 Aug;109(2):319-25. doi: 
10.1016/j.diabres.2015.05.012. Epub 2015 May 14.

Using computer modelled life expectancy to evaluate the impact of Australian 
Primary Care Incentive programs for patients with type 2 diabetes.

Staff M(1), Chen JS(2), March L(3).

Author information:
(1)Public Health Unit, Northern Sydney Local Health District c/- Hornsby 
Hospital, Palmerston Rd, Hornsby, Sydney, NSW 2077, Australia. Electronic 
address: Michael.Staff@health.nsw.gov.au.
(2)Institute of Bone and Joint Research, University of Sydney, Sydney, 
Australia.
(3)Institute of Bone and Joint Research, University of Sydney, Sydney, 
Australia; Department of Rheumatology, Royal North Shore Hospital, St Leonards, 
Sydney, Australia.

AIMS: To evaluate the impact of enhanced primary care and practice incentive 
programs on the care of patients with type 2 diabetes in the Australian primary 
care setting using routinely collected data and computer modelling software.
METHODS: Primary care patient data were electronically extracted from practices 
and inputted into the United Kingdom Prospective Diabetes Study (UKPDS) Outcomes 
model. A retrospective cohort study design was employed with predicted life 
expectancies compared between patients who had a recorded diabetes cycle of care 
(DCoC) and those who did not. Changes in glycated haemoglobin (HbA1c) were also 
analysed using a mixed-effects regression model. Potential life expectancy gains 
were estimated by inputting theoretical risk factors data consistent with 
current guidelines.
RESULTS: Twelve primary care practices were recruited and suitable data were 
available for 559 people with type 2 diabetes. Two hundred and twenty five 
patients (40%) were identified as having completed at least one DCoC and as a 
group had a predicted additional life expectancy of 0.65 years (95% CI, -0.22 to 
1.5). However, once this was adjusted for comorbidities the difference reduced 
to 0.03 years. There was no significant difference in HbA1c levels attributable 
to the intervention. An estimated 0.5 year of additional life expectancy was 
predicted should all patients have complied with current risk factor guideline 
recommendations.
CONCLUSIONS: Computer modelling using routinely collected primary care data can 
be used to evaluate the effectiveness of primary care programs. However, there 
are some data availability and linkage limitations in the Australian setting.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.diabres.2015.05.012
PMID: 26026781 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


731. Rev Med Suisse. 2015 Mar 25;11(467):735-9.

[Roma populations and health].

[Article in French]

Jackson Y, Tabin JP, Hourton G, Bodenmann P.

The health status of the so-called "Roma" is usually much poorer than that of 
neighbouring non-Roma populations with a life expectancy gap of 5-15 years. This 
results from prolonged exposure to adverse determinants of health and to 
persistent exclusion from social and political arenas. Scientific and social 
research has only poorly addressed the health issues of Roma and evidences are 
scarce. Insufficient access to public services, including to health care and non 
optimal clinical practices are modifiable factors. If correctly addressed, this 
could contribute to reduce health disparities, including in Switzerland.

PMID: 26027205 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


732. Public Health. 2015 Jul;129(7):849-53. doi: 10.1016/j.puhe.2015.03.026. Epub
 2015 May 29.

Health inequalities - why so little progress?

Burns H(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Strathclyde, 161 Cathedral Street, Glasgow G4 0RE, UK. 
Electronic address: harry.burns@strath.ac.uk.

Studies of the health of the population of Scotland over many years have 
provided new insights to the basis of inequalities in life expectancy across the 
Scottish population. Conventional descriptions of health inequalities as being 
due predominantly to smoking, obesity and alcohol do not fully account for the 
situation in Scotland. The deeper insights obtained from comprehensive analysis 
have prompted new approaches to narrowing the gap. Opportunities for well-being 
are created within the complex system of a well functioning society and novel 
methods are required if the outcomes of such a complex system are to improve.

Copyright © 2015 The Royal Society for Public Health. Published by Elsevier Ltd. 
All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.puhe.2015.03.026
PMID: 26027452 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


733. Nat Commun. 2015 Jun 1;6:7271. doi: 10.1038/ncomms8271.

Cooperative folding of intrinsically disordered domains drives assembly of a 
strong elongated protein.

Gruszka DT(1), Whelan F(2), Farrance OE(3), Fung HK(2), Paci E(3), Jeffries 
CM(4), Svergun DI(4), Baldock C(5), Baumann CG(2), Brockwell DJ(3), Potts JR(2), 
Clarke J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Chemistry, University of Cambridge, Lensfield Road, Cambridge 
CB2 1EW, UK.
(2)Department of Biology, University of York, Wentworth Way, York YO10 5DD, UK.
(3)Astbury Centre for Structural Molecular Biology, University of Leeds, Leeds 
LS2 9JT, UK.
(4)European Molecular Biology Laboratory, Hamburg Unit, Notkestrasse 85, 22603 
Hamburg, Germany.
(5)Faculty of Life Sciences, Wellcome Trust Centre for Cell-Matrix Research, 
University of Manchester, Michael Smith Building, Greater Manchester M13 9PT, 
UK.

Bacteria exploit surface proteins to adhere to other bacteria, surfaces and host 
cells. Such proteins need to project away from the bacterial surface and resist 
significant mechanical forces. SasG is a protein that forms extended fibrils on 
the surface of Staphylococcus aureus and promotes host adherence and biofilm 
formation. Here we show that although monomeric and lacking covalent 
cross-links, SasG maintains a highly extended conformation in solution. This 
extension is mediated through obligate folding cooperativity of the 
intrinsically disordered E domains that couple non-adjacent G5 domains 
thermodynamically, forming interfaces that are more stable than the domains 
themselves. Thus, counterintuitively, the elongation of the protein appears to 
be dependent on the inherent instability of its domains. The remarkable 
mechanical strength of SasG arises from tandemly arrayed 'clamp' motifs within 
the folded domains. Our findings reveal an elegant minimal solution for the 
assembly of monomeric mechano-resistant tethers of variable length.

DOI: 10.1038/ncomms8271
PMCID: PMC4458895
PMID: 26027519 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


734. Neurocirugia (Astur). 2016 Jan-Feb;27(1):2-9. doi:
10.1016/j.neucir.2015.04.003.  Epub 2015 May 29.

[Comparison of intracranial meningioma outcome scales in operated patients older 
than 65 years old. Our experience between 2002-2012 and a literature review].

[Article in Spanish]

Díaz J(1), Carballares J(2), Zabalo G(2), Bermejo B(3), Zazpe I(2), Portillo 
E(2).

Author information:
(1)Servicio de Neurocirugía, Complejo Hospitalario de Navarra, Pamplona, España. 
Electronic address: jdiazmolina1@gmail.com.
(2)Servicio de Neurocirugía, Complejo Hospitalario de Navarra, Pamplona, España.
(3)Servicio de Medicina Preventiva, Complejo Hospitalario de Navarra, Pamplona, 
España.

OBJECTIVE: Meningioma is the most common intracranial tumor in the elderly. Its 
incidence rate increases with age; so as life expectancy increases, meningiomas 
are diagnosed more frequently. A comparison is made between 4 outcome scales in 
this study: Clinical-Radiological Grading System, Geriatric Scoring Scale, SKALE 
(Sex, Karnofsky, ASA, localization and edema), and the Charlson score, to 
analyze which patients could benefit from surgery.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: A total of 52 patients of 65 years and older operated in 
our hospital between 2002 and 2012 were identified, and a retrospective analysis 
was performed. All individual variables were collected and applied the scales to 
see their relationship with 3 month and annual mortality. The critical values of 
each scale were applied and their positive and negative predictive values were 
calculated.
RESULTS: From the four scales, only the Clinical-Radiological Grading System and 
the SKALE had a significant statistical result when annual mortality was 
analyzed. None of them were associated with 3 month mortality. There was no 
statistically significant association between mortality and sex, edema, previous 
clinical history, and tumor location. But there was an association with age, 
tumor size and previous Karnofsky.
CONCLUSION: The SKALE and the Clinical-Radiological Grading System are easy 
tools that can give an insight as regards patients who can benefit from a 
surgical treatment. Nevertheless, individualized patient analysis and 
neurosurgeon experience still have great importance.

Copyright © 2014 Sociedad Española de Neurocirugía. Published by Elsevier 
España. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.neucir.2015.04.003
PMID: 26028583 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


735. Front Oncol. 2015 May 11;5:110. doi: 10.3389/fonc.2015.00110. eCollection
2015.

Predictors for long-term survival free from whole brain radiation therapy in 
patients treated with radiosurgery for limited brain metastases.

Gorovets D(1), Rava P(2), Ebner DK(3), Tybor DJ(4), Cielo D(5), Puthawala Y(3), 
Kinsella TJ(3), DiPetrillo TA(1), Wazer DE(1), Hepel JT(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Radiation Oncology, Tufts Medical Center , Boston, MA , USA ; 
Department of Radiation Oncology, Rhode Island Hospital , Providence, RI , USA.
(2)Department of Radiation Oncology, UMass Memorial Medical Center , Worcester, 
MA , USA.
(3)Department of Radiation Oncology, Rhode Island Hospital , Providence, RI , 
USA.
(4)Department of Public Health and Community Medicine, Tufts University School 
of Medicine , Boston, MA , USA.
(5)Department of Neurosurgery, Rhode Island Hospital , Providence, RI , USA.

PURPOSE: To identify predictors for prolonged survival free from salvage whole 
brain radiation therapy (WBRT) in patients with brain metastases treated with 
stereotactic radiosurgery (SRS) as their initial radiotherapy approach.
MATERIALS AND METHODS: Patients with brain metastases treated with SRS from 2001 
to 2013 at our institution were identified. SRS without WBRT was typically 
offered to patients with 1-4 brain metastases, Karnofsky performance status ≥70, 
and life expectancy ≥3 months. Three hundred and eight patients met inclusion 
criteria for analysis. Medical records were reviewed for patient, disease, and 
treatment information. Two comparison groups were identified: those with ≥1-year 
WBRT-free survival (N = 104), and those who died or required salvage WBRT within 
3 months of SRS (N = 56). Differences between these groups were assessed by 
univariate and multivariate analyses.
RESULTS: Median survival for all patients was 11 months. Among patients with 
≥1-year WBRT-free survival, median survival was 33 months (12-107 months) with 
only 21% requiring salvage WBRT. Factors significantly associated with prolonged 
WBRT-free survival on univariate analysis (p < 0.05) included younger age, 
asymptomatic presentation, RTOG RPA class I, fewer brain metastases, surgical 
resection, breast primary, new or controlled primary, absence of extracranial 
metastatic disease, and oligometastatic disease burden (≤5 metastatic lesions). 
After controlling for covariates, asymptomatic presentation, breast primary, 
single brain metastasis, absence of extracranial metastases, and oligometastatic 
disease burden remained independent predictors for favorable WBRT-free survival.
CONCLUSION: A subset of patients with brain metastases can achieve long-term 
survival after upfront SRS without the need for salvage WBRT. Predictors 
identified in this study can help select patients that might benefit most from a 
treatment strategy of SRS alone.

DOI: 10.3389/fonc.2015.00110
PMCID: PMC4426730
PMID: 26029666


736. Cuad Bioet. 2015 Jan-Apr;26(86):69-109.

[Abortifacient effect of hormonal contraceptives: a review].

[Article in Spanish]

Agulles Simó P(1).

Author information:
(1)Pontificia Università della Santa Croce. Piazza di Sant'Apollinare, 49 - 
00186 Roma - Italia agulles@pusc.it.

Most of the scientific community, as well as in a sector of international Law, 
when referring to the unborn embryo, pregnancy must be defined as the period 
extending from implantation to natural birth. This implies some novelty, such as 
the redefinition of abortion as the elimination of the embryo only within this 
period, and the extension of contraception to any means that impedes the union 
of the gametes as a consequence of a sexual intercourse, or also that which 
eliminates the product of conception prior to its implantation. Therefore, the 
pharmaceutical industry markets, under the name of contraceptives, products that 
act also by means of an anti-implantation mechanism. This fact has great ethical 
implications regarding the respect for the embryo which require a reflection on 
the moral valuation of the prescription, dispensation and use of these means. 
One may ask: which of the contraceptive means actually present in the market 
include an anti-implantation effect? What mechanisms contribute to their 
pharmacological action and in what measure do they do this? This is what we have 
studied in this article, based on the available scientific bibliography. We have 
basically fulfilled a double objective: updating and completing the studies 
-few, partial or distant in time- that had this same subject matter; and 
offering a moral valuation on the use of hormonal contraceptives that may have 
an anti-implantation effect, from the point of view of the respect due to the 
embryonic life.

PMID: 26030015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


737. Klin Med (Mosk). 2015;93(1):29-34.

[Do we need new approaches to evaluate obesity?].

[Article in Russian]

Samorodskaya IV.

The data on the influence of BMI on life expectancy are still contradictory 
despite the proved relationship between obesity and a number of chronic 
diseases. Many publications are devoted to an obesity paradox, i.e. improved 
survival of patients with elevated BMI and mild obesity compared with that of 
the patients having normal or reduced BMI. In 2013, the American Association of 
Endocrinologists proposed a new paradigm of assessment of BMI and obesity. A 
consensus of Russian specialists is needed as regards the desirability of 
acception and application of the proposed approaches in clinical practice.

PMID: 26031146 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


738. Clin Ther. 2015 Jul 1;37(7):1529-40. doi: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.05.003.
Epub  2015 May 29.

Boceprevir for Chronic Genotype 1 Hepatitis C Virus in the Current Health Care 
Setting in Greece: A Cost-effectiveness Analysis.

Athanasakis K(1), Ferrante SA(2), Kyriopoulos II(3), Petrakis I(1), Hill M(4), 
Retsa MP(4), Kyriopoulos J(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Health Economics, National School of Public Health, Athens, 
Greece.
(2)Merck Sharp & Dohme Corporation, Whitehouse Station, New Jersey.
(3)Department of Health Economics, National School of Public Health, Athens, 
Greece. Electronic address: ilias.kyriopoulos@gmail.com.
(4)MSD Hellas, Athens, Greece.

PURPOSE: Boceprevir, as an add-on to the standard of care (SOC) for chronic 
genotype 1 hepatitis C virus (G1 HCV), pegylated interferon + ribavirin for 48 
weeks (PEG + RBV), has been reported to have a clinical profile superior to that 
of SOC alone. The objective of the present study was to compare the 
cost-effectiveness of triple therapy with PEG + RBV + boceprevir to that of SOC 
in treatment-naive and treatment-experienced patients with G1 HCV in Greece.
METHODS: A Markov model that simulated the quality-adjusted life expectancy and 
corresponding costs of treating G1 HCV infection provided the basis of the 
analysis. Treatment strategies under consideration were those in the Phase III 
boceprevir trials: (1) boceprevir response-guided therapy (shortened treatment 
duration for early responders); (2) fixed-duration (4-week) SOC plus 44 weeks of 
triple therapy; and (3) 48-week SOC. Efficacy data and the baseline 
characteristics of the study population were based on data from the SPRINT-2 
(Serine Protease Inhibitor Therapy 2) and RESPOND-2 (Retreatment with HCV Serine 
Protease Inhibitor Boceprevir and PegIntron/Rebetol 2) clinical trials. Health 
care resource utilization and costs reflect the local clinical setting, with a 
3% discount per annum, and were assessed from a third-party payer perspective.
FINDINGS: Triple therapy was projected to reduce liver complications (eg, 
decompensated cirrhosis, hepatocellular carcinoma, need for liver 
transplantation, and liver-related death) by 44% to 45% and 49% to 53% in 
treatment-naive and treatment-experienced patients, respectively, over a 
lifetime horizon, leading to corresponding gains of 0.87 and 1.25 
quality-adjusted life-years gained per patient. Taking into account the costs of 
medications, treatment, and outcomes management, the estimated incremental 
cost-effectiveness ratios of triple therapy versus SOC were €10,003 and €10,852 
per quality-adjusted life-years gained in treatment-naïve and 
treatment-experienced patients. Extensive sensitivity analyses suggested that 
the findings were robust over a wide range of inputs.
IMPLICATIONS: Based on the findings from the present analysis, the addition of 
boceprevir to PEG + RBV for the treatment of patients with G1 HCV may be a 
cost-effective alternative in the health care setting in Greece.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier HS Journals, Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.clinthera.2015.05.003
PMID: 26031617 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


739. Cancer Prev Res (Phila). 2015 Jun;8(6):545-51. doi: 
10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-14-0442.

Dietary patterns after prostate cancer diagnosis in relation to disease-specific 
and total mortality.

Yang M(1), Kenfield SA(2), Van Blarigan EL(3), Batista JL(4), Sesso HD(5), Ma 
J(4), Stampfer MJ(6), Chavarro JE(7).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nutrition, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts. meyang@hsph.harvard.edu jchavarr@hsph.harvard.edu.
(2)Department of Urology, University of California San Francisco, San Francisco, 
California.
(3)Department of Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of California San 
Francisco, San Francisco, California.
(4)Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, 
Boston, Massachusetts. Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department of 
Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(5)Division of Preventive Medicine, Department of Medicine, Brigham and Women's 
Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, Massachusetts.
(6)Department of Nutrition, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts. Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts. Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department 
of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts.
(7)Department of Nutrition, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public Health, Boston, 
Massachusetts. Department of Epidemiology, Harvard T.H. Chan School of Public 
Health, Boston, Massachusetts. Channing Division of Network Medicine, Department 
of Medicine, Brigham and Women's Hospital and Harvard Medical School, Boston, 
Massachusetts. meyang@hsph.harvard.edu jchavarr@hsph.harvard.edu.

Men diagnosed with nonmetastatic prostate cancer have a long life expectancy, 
and many die of unrelated causes. It is therefore important to know to what 
extent post-diagnostic diet may affect disease-specific and overall mortality. A 
total of 926 men participating in the Physicians' Health Study diagnosed with 
nonmetastatic prostate cancer completed diet questionnaires for a median of 5.1 
years after diagnosis, and were followed thereafter to assess mortality for a 
median of 9.9 years since questionnaire completion. Two post-diagnostic dietary 
patterns were identified: a Prudent pattern, characterized by higher intake of 
vegetables, fruits, fish, legumes, and whole grains; and a Western pattern, 
characterized by higher intake of processed and red meats, high-fat dairy and 
refined grains. Cox regression was used to estimate multivariable-adjusted 
hazard ratios (HR) and 95% confidence intervals (CI). During 8,093 person-years 
of follow-up, 333 men died, 56 (17%) of prostate cancer. The Western pattern was 
significantly related to a higher risk of prostate cancer-specific and all-cause 
mortality. Comparing men in the highest versus the lowest quartile of the 
Western pattern, the HRs were 2.53 (95% CI, 1.00-6.42; Ptrend = 0.02) for 
prostate cancer-specific mortality and 1.67 (95% CI, 1.16-2.42; Ptrend = 0.01) 
for all-cause mortality. The Prudent pattern was associated with a significantly 
lower all-cause mortality (HRQuartile 4 vs. Quartile 1: 0.64; 95% CI, 0.44-0.93; 
Ptrend = 0.02); the relationship with prostate cancer-specific mortality was 
inverse but not statistically significant. A post-diagnostic Western dietary 
pattern was associated with higher prostate cancer-specific and all-cause 
mortality, whereas a Prudent dietary pattern was related to lower all-cause 
mortality after prostate cancer diagnosis.

©2015 American Association for Cancer Research.

DOI: 10.1158/1940-6207.CAPR-14-0442
PMCID: PMC4452958
PMID: 26031631 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Disclosure of potential conflicts of interest: 
No potential conflicts of interest were disclosed.


740. Adv Physiol Educ. 2015 Jun;39(2):55-62. doi: 10.1152/advan.00101.2014.

Exercise, cognitive function, and aging.

Barnes JN(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Anesthesiology, and Department of Physiology and Biomedical 
Engineering, Mayo Clinic, Rochester, Minnesota jnbarnes@wisc.edu.

Increasing the lifespan of a population is often a marker of a country's 
success. With the percentage of the population over 65 yr of age expanding, 
managing the health and independence of this population is an ongoing concern. 
Advancing age is associated with a decrease in cognitive function that 
ultimately affects quality of life. Understanding potential adverse effects of 
aging on brain blood flow and cognition may help to determine effective 
strategies to mitigate these effects on the population. Exercise may be one 
strategy to prevent or delay cognitive decline. This review describes how aging 
is associated with cardiovascular disease risks, vascular dysfunction, and 
increasing Alzheimer's disease pathology. It will also discuss the possible 
effects of aging on cerebral vascular physiology, cerebral perfusion, and brain 
atrophy rates. Clinically, these changes will present as reduced cognitive 
function, neurodegeneration, and the onset of dementia. Regular exercise has 
been shown to improve cognitive function, and we hypothesize that this occurs 
through beneficial adaptations in vascular physiology and improved neurovascular 
coupling. This review highlights the potential interactions and ideas of how the 
age-associated variables may affect cognition and may be moderated by regular 
exercise.

Copyright © 2015 The American Physiological Society.

DOI: 10.1152/advan.00101.2014
PMCID: PMC4587595
PMID: 26031719 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


741. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2015 Jun;63(6):1170-4. doi: 10.1111/jgs.13433. Epub 2015
Jun  1.

Attenuated Age-Related Increases in Arterial Stiffness in Japanese and American 
Women.

Tanaka H(1), Miyachi M(2), Murakami H(2), Maeda S(3), Sugawara J(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Kinesiology and Health Education, University of Texas at 
Austin, Austin, Texas.
(2)Department of Health Promotion and Exercise, National Institute of Health and 
Nutrition, Tokyo, Japan.
(3)Faculty of Health and Sport Sciences, University of Tsukuba, Ibaraki, Japan.
(4)National Institute of Advanced Industrial Science and Technology, Ibaraki, 
Japan.

BACKGROUND: The United States and Japan have similar standards of living, 
healthcare systems, and industrializations but exhibit markedly divergent life 
expectancies both at birth and at later ages (50 or 65 years old). Arterial 
stiffness has been widely regarded as a barometer of biological or physiological 
aging and could provide insight into the inter-country differences.
OBJECTIVES: To determine whether the increases in arterial stiffness across the 
adult age range are greater in U.S. than Japanese adults.
DESIGN: Cross-sectional analyses.
SETTING: Laboratory-based study.
PARTICIPANTS: Healthy, nonsmoking Japanese (n = 400) and U.S. (n = 400) adults 
without cardiovascular and other chronic diseases.
MEASUREMENTS: Indices of arterial stiffness, including carotid-femoral (cfPWV) 
and brachial-ankle pulse wave velocity (baPWV) were measured, along with a 
variety of ancillary measures. The recruitment method, measurement technique, 
and protocol were standardized and identical between U.S. and Japanese 
facilities.
RESULTS: cfPWV and baPWV increased progressively with advancing age in all 
subgroups (stratified according to sex and country). The rates of age-related 
increases in arterial stiffness were not different between U.S. and Japanese 
men, but age-associated increases in cfPWV were significantly greater in U.S. 
than Japanese women, widening the intercountry differences at older age ranges.
CONCLUSION: Japanese women had smaller increases in central arterial stiffness 
with advancing age than U.S. women.

© 2015, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2015, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.13433
PMID: 26031783 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


742. J Musculoskelet Neuronal Interact. 2015 Jun;15(2):145-53.

The impact of vitamin D3 supplementation on muscle function among HIV-infected 
children and young adults: a randomized controlled trial.

Brown JC(1), Schall JI(2), Rutstein RM(3)(4), Leonard MB(5), Zemel BS(2), 
Stallings VA(2)(4).

Author information:
(1)Center for Clinical Epidemiology and Biostatistics, University of 
Pennsylvania Perelman School of Medicine.
(2)Division of Gastroenterology, Hepatology, and Nutrition.
(3)Division of General Pediatrics, Children's Hospital of Philadelphia.
(4)Department of Pediatrics, University of Pennsylvania Perelman School of 
Medicine Philadelphia, PA.
(5)Division of Nephrology, Department of Pediatrics, Stanford School of 
Medicine, Stanford, CA.

OBJECTIVES: We tested the hypothesis that daily vitD3 supplementation increases 
neuromuscular motor skills, jump power, jump energy, muscular force, and 
muscular strength.
METHODS: This was a secondary analysis of a randomized controlled trial of 
12-months of oral 7,000 IU/day vitD3 supplementation or placebo among 56 persons 
living with HIV aged 9-25 years. Neuromuscular motor skills were quantified 
using the Bruininks-Oseretsky Test of Motor Proficiency. Power was quantified 
using peak jump power, and energy was quantified using peak jump height. 
Muscular force was quantified using isometric ankle plantar- and dorsiflexion, 
isokinetic knee flexion and extension. Muscular strength was quantified using 
isometric handgrip strength.
RESULTS: After 12-months, serum 25-hydroxyvitamin D [25(OH)D] was higher with 
supplementation versus placebo (β=12.1 ng/mL; P<0.001). In intention-to-treat 
analyses, supplementation improved neuromuscular motor skills versus placebo 
(β=1.14; P=0.041). We observed no effect of supplementation on jump power, jump 
energy, muscular force, or muscular strength outcomes versus placebo.
CONCLUSIONS: Among HIV-infected children and young adults supplementation with 
daily high-dose vitD3 increased concentration of serum 25(OH)D and improved 
neuromuscular motor skills versus placebo.

PMCID: PMC4533987
PMID: 26032206 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: This work was supported by the NIH/National 
Center for Complementary and Alternative Medicine, Grant R01AT005531, 
NIH/National Institute of Diabetes and Digestive and Kidney Diseases, Grant 
K24DK076808, the National Center for Research Resources, Grant UL1RR024134, and 
is now at the National Center for Advancing Translational Sciences, Grant 
UL1TR000003. The content is solely the responsibility of the authors and does 
not necessarily represent the official views of the NIH. Life Extension (Ft. 
Lauderdale, FL) and J.R. Carlson Laboratories, Inc. (Arlington Heights, IL) 
donated the vitamin D3 supplements and placebo capsules and drops, respectively. 
The authors have no funding or conflicts of interest to disclose. Clinical Trial 
Registration Number: NCT01475890.


743. J Microbiol Biotechnol. 2015 Sep;25(9):1502-9. doi: 10.4014/jmb.1505.05021.

Synergistic Effect of Slightly Acidic Electrolyzed Water and Ultrasound at Mild 
Heat Temperature in Microbial Reduction and Shelf-Life Extension of Fresh-Cut 
Bell Pepper.

Luo K(1), Oh DH(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Food Science and Biotechnology and Institute of Bioscience and 
Biotechnology, Kangwon National University, Chuncheon 200-701, Republic of 
Korea.

The objectives of this study were to evaluate the effect of combined treatments 
(slightly acidic electrolyzed water (SAEW), ultrasound (US), or mild heat 
(60°C)) on the growth of Listeria monocytogenes and Salmonella enterica serovar 
Typhimurium in fresh-cut bell pepper, and the shelf-life and sensory quality 
(color and texture) were followed during storage at 4°C and 25°C. An additional 
0.65, 1.72, and 2.70 log CFU/g reduction was achieved by heat treatments at 60°C 
for 1 min for DW, SAEW, and SAEW+US, respectively. Regardless of the type of 
pathogen, the combined treatment (SAEW+US+60°C) achieved a significantly (p < 
0.05) longer lag time in all treatment groups. This combined treatment also 
prolonged the shelf-life of bell pepper up to 8 days and 30 h for the storage at 
4°C and 25°C, respectively. There was also no significant difference in the 
color and hardness of treated (SAEW+US+60°C) bell pepper from that of control 
during the storage. This new hurdle approach is thus expected to improve the 
microbial safety of bell peppers during storage and distribution.

DOI: 10.4014/jmb.1505.05021
PMID: 26032362 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


744. Bone Joint J. 2015 Jun;97-B(6):762-70. doi: 10.1302/0301-620X.97B6.34806.

Lifetime cost effectiveness of different brands of prosthesis used for total hip 
arthroplasty: a study using the NJR dataset.

Pennington MW(1), Grieve R(1), van der Meulen JH(1).

Author information:
(1)London School of Hygiene and Tropical Medicine, 15-17 Tavistock Place, 
London, WC1H 9SH, UK.

There is little evidence on the cost effectiveness of different brands of hip 
prostheses. We compared lifetime cost effectiveness of frequently used brands 
within types of prosthesis including cemented (Exeter V40 Contemporary, Exeter 
V40 Duration and Exeter V40 Elite Plus Ogee), cementless (Corail Pinnacle, 
Accolade Trident, and Taperloc Exceed) and hybrid (Exeter V40 Trilogy, Exeter 
V40 Trident, and CPT Trilogy). We used data from three linked English national 
databases to estimate the lifetime risk of revision, quality-adjusted life years 
(QALYs) and cost. For women with osteoarthritis aged 70 years, the Exeter V40 
Elite Plus Ogee had the lowest risk of revision (5.9% revision risk, 9.0 QALYs) 
and the CPT Trilogy had the highest QALYs (10.9% revision risk, 9.3 QALYs). 
Compared with the Corail Pinnacle (9.3% revision risk, 9.22 QALYs), the most 
commonly used brand, and assuming a willingness-to-pay of £20,000 per QALY gain, 
the CPT Trilogy is most cost effective, with an incremental net monetary benefit 
of £876. Differences in cost effectiveness between the hybrid CPT Trilogy and 
Exeter V40 Trident and the cementless Corail Pinnacle and Taperloc Exceed were 
small, and a cautious interpretation is required, given the limitations of the 
available information. However, it is unlikely that cemented brands are among 
the most cost effective. Similar patterns of results were observed for men and 
other ages. The gain in quality of life after total hip arthroplasty, rather 
than the risk of revision, was the main driver of cost effectiveness. Cite this 
article: Bone Joint J 2015;97-B:762-70.

©2015 The British Editorial Society of Bone & Joint Surgery.

DOI: 10.1302/0301-620X.97B6.34806
PMID: 26033055 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


745. Mol Cell Endocrinol. 2015 Dec 15;418 Pt 3(Pt 3):306-21. doi: 
10.1016/j.mce.2015.05.020. Epub 2015 May 29.

Impaired estrogen receptor action in the pathogenesis of the metabolic syndrome.

Hevener AL(1), Clegg DJ(2), Mauvais-Jarvis F(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine, Division of Endocrinology, Diabetes, and 
Hypertension, David Geffen School of Medicine, Iris Cantor-UCLA Women's Health 
Center, University of California, Los Angeles, CA 90095, USA. Electronic 
address: ahevener@mednet.ucla.edu.
(2)Department of Biomedical Sciences, Diabetes and Obesity Research Institute 
Cedars-Sinai Medical Center, Los Angeles, CA 90048, USA.
(3)Section of Endocrinology, Department of Medicine Tulane University, Health 
Science Center New Orleans, New Orleans, LA 70112, USA.

Considering the current trends in life expectancy, women in the modern era are 
challenged with facing menopausal symptoms as well as heightened disease risk 
associated with increasing adiposity and metabolic dysfunction for up to three 
decades of life. Treatment strategies to combat metabolic dysfunction and 
associated pathologies have been hampered by our lack of understanding regarding 
the biological underpinnings of these clinical conditions and our incomplete 
understanding of the effects of estrogens and the tissue-specific functions and 
molecular actions of its receptors. In this review we provide evidence 
supporting a critical and protective role for the estrogen receptor α specific 
form in the maintenance of metabolic homeostasis and insulin sensitivity. 
Studies identifying the ER-regulated pathways required for disease prevention 
will lay the important foundation for the rational design of targeted 
therapeutics to improve women's health while limiting complications that have 
plagued traditional hormone replacement interventions.

Copyright © 2015. Published by Elsevier Ireland Ltd.

DOI: 10.1016/j.mce.2015.05.020
PMCID: PMC5965692
PMID: 26033249 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


746. Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2015 Oct;21(10):1823-9. doi: 
10.1016/j.bbmt.2015.05.013. Epub 2015 May 30.

Cost-Effectiveness of Autologous Hematopoietic Stem Cell Transplantation for 
Elderly Patients with Multiple Myeloma using the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and 
End Results-Medicare Database.

Shah GL(1), Winn AN(2), Lin PJ(3), Klein A(4), Sprague KA(4), Smith HP(4), 
Buchsbaum R(4), Cohen JT(3), Miller KB(4), Comenzo R(4), Parsons SK(5).

Author information:
(1)Adult Bone Marrow Transplantation Service, Department of Medicine, Memorial 
Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York, New York. Electronic address: 
shahg@mskcc.org.
(2)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts; 
Department of Health Policy and Management, University of North Carolina at 
Chapel Hill, Chapel Hill, North Carolina.
(3)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health, Institute for Clinical 
Research and Health Policy Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.
(4)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.
(5)Division of Hematology/Oncology, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts; 
Center for Health Solutions, Institute for Clinical Research and Health Policy 
Studies, Tufts Medical Center, Boston, Massachusetts.

Comment in
    Biol Blood Marrow Transplant. 2015 Oct;21(10):1705-6.

In the past decade, the number of autologous hematopoietic stem cell transplants 
(Auto HSCT) for older patients with multiple myeloma (MM) has increased 
dramatically, as has the cost of transplantation. The cost-effectiveness of this 
modality in patients over age 65 is unclear. Using the Surveillance, 
Epidemiology, and End Results-Medicare database to create a propensity-score 
matched sample of patients over age 65 between 2000 and 2007, we compared the 
survival and cost for those who received Auto HSCT to those who did not undergo 
transplantation but survived at least 6 months after diagnosis, and we 
calculated an incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). Two hundred seventy 
patients underwent transplantation. Median overall survival from diagnosis in 
those who underwent transplantation was significantly longer than in patients 
who did not (58 months versus 37 months, P < .001). For patients living longer 
than 2 years, the median monthly cost during the first year was significantly 
different, but the middle and last year of life costs were similar. The median 
cost of the first 100 days after transplantation was $60,000 (range, $37,000 to 
$85,000). The resultant ICER was $72,852 per life-year gained. Survival after 
transplantation was comparable to that in those who underwent transplantation 
patients under 65 years and significantly longer than older patients who did not 
undergo transplantation. With an ICER less than $100,000/life-year gained, Auto 
HSCT is cost-effective when compared with nontransplantation care in the era of 
novel agents and should be considered, where clinically indicated, for patients 
over the age of 65.

Copyright © 2015 American Society for Blood and Marrow Transplantation. 
Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.bbmt.2015.05.013
PMCID: PMC4933291
PMID: 26033281 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Conflict of interest statement: There are no 
conflicts of interest to report.


747. Curr Diabetes Rev. 2015;12(2):156-62. doi:
10.2174/1573399811666150602150325.

Effect of Systemic Inflammation on the Function of Insulin and Glucose 
Metabolism in Rheumatoid Arthritis.

Herlitz-Cifuentes HS(1), Garces PC, Fernandez LI, Guzman-Gutierrez EA.

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Health Sciences, Universidad San Sebastian, Concepcion, Chile. 
herbert.herlitz@uss.cl.

Rheumatoid arthritis (RA) is a systemic autoimmune disease of unknown etiology 
characterized by chronic inflammation of the synovial membranes and articular 
structures of the joints. The concomitant comorbidities are important in the 
management and treatment of patients with RA, because they decrease their life 
quality and expectancy - with cardiovascular diseases being the most common 
comorbidities and primary cause of death in RA. Traditional cardiovascular risk 
factors, such as diabetes mellitus (DM) and insulin resistance (IR) are 
prevalent in these patients. The prevalence of DM in RA patients has not been 
well established and the association between these diseases is controversial. On 
the other hand, several epidemiological studies support the association between 
RA and IR, with the latter being linked to systemic inflammatory markers, 
including C reactive protein and erythrocyte sedimentation rate. Patients with 
RA who underwent glucocorticoid therapy were also determined to have a defective 
insulin sensitivity and pancreatic β-cell dysfunction. It has been proposed that 
systemic inflammation due to RA may result in insulin resistance - moreover, 
studies have examined the effect of inflammatory cytokines such as TNF-α, IL-6 
and IL-1 on insulin sensitivity and glucose metabolism. Likewise, the 
association between RA and IR, and its role on the different characteristics of 
the disease, such as duration, activity, and treatment with glucocorticoids has 
not been well defined. A gap in the current understanding regarding the role 
that the systemic inflammation and the different RA characteristics have on the 
insulin function and glucose metabolism of RA patients suggest that more studies 
are required to elucidate these mechanisms.

DOI: 10.2174/1573399811666150602150325
PMID: 26033386 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


748. J Clin Oncol. 2015 Jul 10;33(20):2288-95. doi: 10.1200/JCO.2014.57.6652.
Epub  2015 Jun 1.

Risk and Cause of Death in Patients Diagnosed With Myeloproliferative Neoplasms 
in Sweden Between 1973 and 2005: A Population-Based Study.

Hultcrantz M(1), Wilkes SR(2), Kristinsson SY(2), Andersson TM(2), Derolf ÅR(2), 
Eloranta S(2), Samuelsson J(2), Landgren O(2), Dickman PW(2), Lambert PC(2), 
Björkholm M(2).

Author information:
(1)Malin Hultcrantz, Sigurdur Y. Kristinsson, Åsa R. Derolf, and Magnus 
Björkholm, Karolinska University Hospital; Malin Hultcrantz, Sigurdur Y. 
Kristinsson, Therese M.-L. Andersson, Åsa R. Derolf, Sandra Eloranta, Paul W. 
Dickman, Paul C. Lambert, and Magnus Björkholm, Karolinska Institutet; Jan 
Samuelsson, South Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden; Sally R. Wilkes, University of 
Nottingham, Nottingham; Paul C. Lambert, University of Leicester, Leicester, 
United Kingdom; Sigurdur Y. Kristinsson, University of Iceland and Landspitali 
National University Hospital, Reykjavik, Iceland; and Ola Landgren, Memorial 
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY. malin.hultcrantz@ki.se.
(2)Malin Hultcrantz, Sigurdur Y. Kristinsson, Åsa R. Derolf, and Magnus 
Björkholm, Karolinska University Hospital; Malin Hultcrantz, Sigurdur Y. 
Kristinsson, Therese M.-L. Andersson, Åsa R. Derolf, Sandra Eloranta, Paul W. 
Dickman, Paul C. Lambert, and Magnus Björkholm, Karolinska Institutet; Jan 
Samuelsson, South Hospital, Stockholm, Sweden; Sally R. Wilkes, University of 
Nottingham, Nottingham; Paul C. Lambert, University of Leicester, Leicester, 
United Kingdom; Sigurdur Y. Kristinsson, University of Iceland and Landspitali 
National University Hospital, Reykjavik, Iceland; and Ola Landgren, Memorial 
Sloan Kettering Cancer Center, New York, NY.

PURPOSE: Myeloproliferative neoplasms (MPNs) are associated with a shortened 
life expectancy. We assessed causes of death in patients with MPN and matched 
controls using both relative risks and absolute probabilities in the presence of 
competing risks.
PATIENTS AND METHODS: From Swedish registries, we identified 9,285 patients with 
MPN and 35,769 matched controls. A flexible parametric model was used to 
estimate cause-specific hazard ratios (HRs) of death and cumulative incidence 
functions, each with 95% CIs.
RESULTS: In patients with MPN, the HRs of death from hematologic malignancies 
and infections were 92.8 (95% CI, 70.0 to 123.1) and 2.7 (95% CI, 2.4 to 3.1), 
respectively. In patients age 70 to 79 years at diagnosis (the largest patient 
group), the HRs of death from cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease were 
1.5 (95% CI, 1.4 to 1.7) and 1.5 (95% CI, 1.3 to 1.8), respectively; all were 
statistically significantly elevated compared with those of controls. In the 
same age group, no difference was observed in the 10-year probability of death 
resulting from cardiovascular disease in patients with MPN versus controls 
(16.8% v 15.2%) or cerebrovascular disease (5.6% v 5.2%). In patients age 50 to 
59 years at diagnosis, the 10-year probability of death resulting from 
cardiovascular and cerebrovascular disease was elevated, 4.2% versus 2.1% and 
1.9% versus 0.4%, respectively. Survival in patients with MPN increased over 
time, mainly because of decreased probabilities of dying as a result of 
hematologic malignancies, infections, and, in young patients, cardiovascular 
disease.
CONCLUSION: Patients with MPN had an overall higher mortality rate than that of 
matched controls, primarily because of hematologic malignancy, infections, and 
vascular events in younger patients. Evidently, there is still a need for 
effective disease-modifying agents to improve patient outcomes.

© 2015 by American Society of Clinical Oncology.

DOI: 10.1200/JCO.2014.57.6652
PMID: 26033810 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


749. J Epidemiol Community Health. 2015 Oct;69(10):1006-11. doi: 
10.1136/jech-2015-205623. Epub 2015 Jun 1.

Pinpointing the sources of the Asian mortality advantage in the USA.

Acciai F(1), Noah AJ(1), Firebaugh G(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Sociology, Pennsylvania State University, University Park, 
Pennsylvania, USA.

BACKGROUND: Asian-Americans outlive whites by an average of nearly 8 years. By 
determining the sources of the Asian mortality advantage, we can pinpoint where 
there is the greatest potential for raising the life expectancy of whites and 
other groups in the USA.
METHODS: Our analyses include all Asian and white deaths in the USA between 2006 
and 2010, from the Center for Disease Control. Using the International 
Classification of Diseases (V.10), we code causes of deaths into 19 categories, 
based on the most common causes as well as causes particularly relevant to 
