
Using the plant survivorship theory, the age structure, and the relationship 
between tree height and diameter (DBH) of Quercus wutaishanica population in 
Lingkong Mountain were analyzed, and the static life table was compiled and the 
survival curve plotted. The shuttle shape in age structure of Q. wutaishanica 
population suggested its temporal stability. The linear regression significantly 
fitted the positive correlation between tree height and DBH. The maximal life 
expectancy was observed among the trees beyond the age of the highest mortality 
and coincided with the lowest point of mortality density, suggesting the strong 
vitality of the seedlings and young trees that survived in the natural selection 
and intraspecific competition. The population stability of the Q. wutaishanica 
population was characterized by the Deevey-II of the survival curve. The dynamic 
pattern was characterized by the recession in the early phase, growth in the 
intermediate phase, and stability in the latter phase.

PMID: 25898607 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


386. J Cosmet Sci. 2014 Nov-Dec;65(6):389-401.

Trophic effect of a methanol yeast extract on 3T3 fibroblast cells.

Gallo D, Dillemans M, Allardin D, Priem F, Van Nedervelde L.

With regard to the increase of human life expectancy, interest for topical 
treatments aimed to counteract skin aging is still growing. Hence, research for 
bioactive compounds able to stimulate skin fibroblast activity is an attractive 
topic. Having previously described the effects of a new methanol yeast extract 
on growth and metabolic activity of Saccharomyces cerevisiae, we studied its 
effects on 3T3 fibroblasts to evaluate its potential antiaging property. This 
investigation demonstrates that this extract increases proliferation as well as 
migration of 3T3 cells and decreases their entrance in senescence and apoptosis 
phases. Altogether, these results open new perspectives for the formulation of 
innovative antiaging topical treatments.

PMID: 25898765 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


387. Integr Comp Biol. 2015 Oct;55(4):719-27. doi: 10.1093/icb/icv017. Epub 2015
Apr  21.

Not So Fast: Swimming Behavior of Sailfish during Predator-Prey Interactions 
using High-Speed Video and Accelerometry.

Marras S(1), Noda T(2), Steffensen JF(1), Svendsen MB(1), Krause J(2), Wilson 
AD(2), Kurvers RH(1), Herbert-Read J(1), Boswell KM(1), Domenici P(3).

Author information:
(1)*IAMC-CNR, Istituto per l'Ambiente Marino Costiero, Consiglio Nazionale delle 
Ricerche, Località Sa Mardini, Torregrande, 09170 Oristano, Italy; Department of 
Social Informatics, Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, 
Yoshidahonmachi, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan; Marine Biological Section, University of 
Copenhagen Strandpromenaden 5, DK-3000 Helsingør, Denmark; Leibniz Institute of 
Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Mueggelseedamm 310, 12587 Berlin, 
Germany; Faculty of Life Sciences, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 
Invalidenstrasse 42, 10115 Berlin, Germany; Fish Ecology and Conservation 
Physiology Laboratory, Department of Biology, Carleton University, 1125 Colonel 
By Drive, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1S 5B6; **Department of Mathematics, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, 75106, Sweden; Department of Biological Sciences, Marine 
Sciences Program, Florida International University, North Miami, FL 33181, USA.
(2)*IAMC-CNR, Istituto per l'Ambiente Marino Costiero, Consiglio Nazionale delle 
Ricerche, Località Sa Mardini, Torregrande, 09170 Oristano, Italy; Department of 
Social Informatics, Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, 
Yoshidahonmachi, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan; Marine Biological Section, University of 
Copenhagen Strandpromenaden 5, DK-3000 Helsingør, Denmark; Leibniz Institute of 
Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Mueggelseedamm 310, 12587 Berlin, 
Germany; Faculty of Life Sciences, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 
Invalidenstrasse 42, 10115 Berlin, Germany; Fish Ecology and Conservation 
Physiology Laboratory, Department of Biology, Carleton University, 1125 Colonel 
By Drive, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1S 5B6; **Department of Mathematics, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, 75106, Sweden; Department of Biological Sciences, Marine 
Sciences Program, Florida International University, North Miami, FL 33181, USA 
*IAMC-CNR, Istituto per l'Ambiente Marino Costiero, Consiglio Nazionale delle 
Ricerche, Località Sa Mardini, Torregrande, 09170 Oristano, Italy; Department of 
Social Informatics, Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, 
Yoshidahonmachi, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan; Marine Biological Section, University of 
Copenhagen Strandpromenaden 5, DK-3000 Helsingør, Denmark; Leibniz Institute of 
Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Mueggelseedamm 310, 12587 Berlin, 
Germany; Faculty of Life Sciences, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 
Invalidenstrasse 42, 10115 Berlin, Germany; Fish Ecology and Conservation 
Physiology Laboratory, Department of Biology, Carleton University, 1125 Colonel 
By Drive, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1S 5B6; **Department of Mathematics, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, 75106, Sweden; Department of Biological Sciences, Marine 
Sciences Program, Florida International University, North Miami, FL 33181, USA.
(3)*IAMC-CNR, Istituto per l'Ambiente Marino Costiero, Consiglio Nazionale delle 
Ricerche, Località Sa Mardini, Torregrande, 09170 Oristano, Italy; Department of 
Social Informatics, Graduate School of Informatics, Kyoto University, 
Yoshidahonmachi, Kyoto 606-8501, Japan; Marine Biological Section, University of 
Copenhagen Strandpromenaden 5, DK-3000 Helsingør, Denmark; Leibniz Institute of 
Freshwater Ecology and Inland Fisheries, Mueggelseedamm 310, 12587 Berlin, 
Germany; Faculty of Life Sciences, Humboldt-Universität zu Berlin, 
Invalidenstrasse 42, 10115 Berlin, Germany; Fish Ecology and Conservation 
Physiology Laboratory, Department of Biology, Carleton University, 1125 Colonel 
By Drive, Ottawa, Ontario, Canada K1S 5B6; **Department of Mathematics, Uppsala 
University, Uppsala, 75106, Sweden; Department of Biological Sciences, Marine 
Sciences Program, Florida International University, North Miami, FL 33181, USA 
paolo.domenici@cnr.it.

Billfishes are considered among the fastest swimmers in the oceans. Despite 
early estimates of extremely high speeds, more recent work showed that these 
predators (e.g., blue marlin) spend most of their time swimming slowly, rarely 
exceeding 2 m s(-1). Predator-prey interactions provide a context within which 
one may expect maximal speeds both by predators and prey. Beyond speed, however, 
an important component determining the outcome of predator-prey encounters is 
unsteady swimming (i.e., turning and accelerating). Although large predators are 
faster than their small prey, the latter show higher performance in unsteady 
swimming. To contrast the evading behaviors of their highly maneuverable prey, 
sailfish and other large aquatic predators possess morphological adaptations, 
such as elongated bills, which can be moved more rapidly than the whole body 
itself, facilitating capture of the prey. Therefore, it is an open question 
whether such supposedly very fast swimmers do use high-speed bursts when feeding 
on evasive prey, in addition to using their bill for slashing prey. Here, we 
measured the swimming behavior of sailfish by using high-frequency accelerometry 
and high-speed video observations during predator-prey interactions. These 
measurements allowed analyses of tail beat frequencies to estimate swimming 
speeds. Our results suggest that sailfish burst at speeds of about 7 m s(-1) and 
do not exceed swimming speeds of 10 m s(-1) during predator-prey interactions. 
These speeds are much lower than previous estimates. In addition, the 
oscillations of the bill during swimming with, and without, extension of the 
dorsal fin (i.e., the sail) were measured. We suggest that extension of the 
dorsal fin may allow sailfish to improve the control of the bill and minimize 
its yaw, hence preventing disturbance of the prey. Therefore, sailfish, like 
other large predators, may rely mainly on accuracy of movement and the use of 
the extensions of their bodies, rather than resorting to top speeds when hunting 
evasive prey.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the Society 
for Integrative and Comparative Biology. All rights reserved. For permissions 
please email: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/icb/icv017
PMID: 25898843 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


388. J Clin Nurs. 2015 Sep;24(17-18):2514-21. doi: 10.1111/jocn.12842. Epub 2015
Apr  20.

Health needs of older Aboriginal people in Taiwan: a community-based assessment 
using a multidimensional instrument.

Lee LL(1), Lin SH(2), Philp I(3).

Author information:
(1)Department of Nursing and Research Centre for Environment and Physical 
Activity, Tzu Chi College of Technology, Hualien, Taiwan.
(2)Community Health Centre, Department of Community Medicine, Buddhist Tzu Chi 
General Hospital, Hualien, Taiwan.
(3)Hull and East Yorkshire NHS Hospitals Trust, UK.

AIMS AND OBJECTIVES: To explore the health needs of older Aboriginal people, 
using a multidimensional instrument. The gender differences related to their 
health needs were also addressed.
BACKGROUND: Health status and life expectancy between Aborigines and 
non-Aborigines have been shown to differ. The investigation of the health needs 
of Aboriginal people is however scarce, particularly among the older adult 
population. There is a need to address unmet health needs and improve 
information on the health needs assessment of the older Aboriginal population.
DESIGN: A cross-sectional design was used.
METHODS: Aboriginal people aged 65 and over were randomly sampled to take part 
in the present study. A multidimensional instrument consisting of eight domains 
and three cross-domain categories was used to assess their health needs.
RESULTS: A group of older Aboriginal people was recruited (n = 90, mean age = 
73·5). The top three identified needs were 'mental health and well-being', 
'staying healthy' and 'social participation'. The female participants had 
statistically significant higher scores for the 'mental health and well-being', 
'getting around' domains and in the 'risk of falls' than the male ones. A 
regression model demonstrated that the health need of 'looking after oneself' 
was associated with all cross-domain categories of health need, which are 
'independence', 'risk of breakdown in care' and 'risk of falls'.
CONCLUSIONS: The present study has revealed major health needs among older 
Aboriginal people and found that older female Aborigines have more health needs 
than older male Aborigines. Further study to identify effective approaches to 
address these needs among this group is warranted.
RELEVANCE TO CLINICAL PRACTICE: The findings can be used to identify effective 
approaches to addressing health needs among older Aboriginal people with a 
consideration of gender. Only then can resources be allocated and prioritised in 
a culturally sensitive and gender-specific manner nationally and globally.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/jocn.12842
PMID: 25899876 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


389. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2015 Apr;63(4):750-6. doi: 10.1111/jgs.13335.

Colon cancer screening in U.S. adults aged 65 and older according to life 
expectancy and age.

Schonberg MA(1), Breslau ES, Hamel MB, Bellizzi KM, McCarthy EP.

Author information:
(1)Division of General Medicine and Primary Care, Department of Medicine, 
Harvard Medical School, Beth Israel Deaconess Medical Center, Boston, 
Massachusetts.

OBJECTIVES: To examine receipt of colorectal cancer (CRC) screening according to 
age and life expectancy (LE) in adults aged 65 and older.
DESIGN: Population-based survey.
SETTING: United States.
PARTICIPANTS: Community dwelling adults aged 65 and older who participated in 
the 2008 or 2010 National Health Interview Survey (N = 7,747).
MEASUREMENTS: Receipt of CRC screening (e.g., colonoscopy within 10 years) was 
examined according to age and LE (≥10 and <10 years), adjusting for 
sociodemographic characteristics and survey year. Frequency of CRC screening was 
also examined according to age and LE at time of screening (e.g., age at 
colonoscopy rather than at interview). Participants screened when they were aged 
75 and older or had less than a 10-year LE were considered to have received 
screening inconsistent with guidelines.
RESULTS: Overall, 38.5% of participants had less than a 10-year LE; 40.2% were 
aged 75 and older, and 56.3% had received recent CRC screening (90.1% by 
colonoscopy). CRC screening was higher in 2010 (58.9%) than 2008 (53.7%, P 
<.001) and was associated with longer LE and younger age, although 51.1% of 
adults aged 75 and older reported receiving CRC screening, as did 50.9% of 
adults with less than a 10-year LE. Based on age and LE at time of screening 
(rather than at interview), 28.4% of CRC screening of adults aged 65 and older 
was targeted to those aged 75 and older and those with less than a 10-year LE. 
Of adults aged 65 to 75 with a 10-year LE or more (adults recommended for 
screening by guidelines), 39.2% had not recently been screened.
CONCLUSION: Older adults with little chance of benefit because of limited LE 
commonly undergo CRC screening, whereas many adults aged 65 to 75 with a 10-year 
LE or greater are not screened.

© 2015, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2015, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.13335
PMID: 25900488 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


390. J Am Geriatr Soc. 2015 Apr;63(4):757-62. doi: 10.1111/jgs.13340.

Predicting 5- and 10-year survival in older women with early-stage breast 
cancer: self-rated health and walking ability.

Eng JA(1), Clough-Gorr K, Cabral HJ, Silliman RA.

Author information:
(1)Division of Geriatrics, University of California at San Francisco, San 
Francisco, California; San Francisco Veterans Affairs Medical Center, San 
Francisco, California.

OBJECTIVES: To determine life expectancy for older women with breast cancer.
DESIGN: Prospective longitudinal study with 10 years of follow-up data.
SETTING: Hospitals or collaborating tumor registries in four geographic regions 
(Los Angeles, California; Minnesota; North Carolina; Rhode Island).
PARTICIPANTS: Women aged 65 and older at time of breast cancer diagnosis with 
Stage I to IIIA disease with measures of self-rated health (SRH) and walking 
ability at baseline (N = 615; 17% aged ≥80, 52% Stage I, 58% with ≥2 
comorbidities).
MEASUREMENTS: Baseline SRH, baseline self-reported walking ability, all-cause 
and breast cancer-specific estimated probability of 5- and 10-year survival.
RESULTS: At the time of breast cancer diagnosis, 39% of women reported poor SRH, 
and 28% reported limited ability to walk several blocks. The all-cause survival 
curves appear to separate after approximately 3 years, and the difference in 
survival probability between those with low SRH and limited walking ability and 
those with high SRH and no walking ability limitation was significant (0.708 vs 
0.855 at 5 years, P ≤ .001; 0.300 vs 0.648 at 10 years, P < .001). There were no 
differences between the groups in breast cancer-specific survival at 5 and 10 
years (P = .66 at 5 years, P = .16 at 10 years).
CONCLUSION: The combination of low SRH and limited ability to walk several 
blocks at diagnosis is an important predictor of worse all-cause survival at 5 
and 10 years. These self-report measures easily assessed in clinical practice 
may be an effective strategy to improve treatment decision-making in older 
adults with cancer.

© 2015, Copyright the Authors Journal compilation © 2015, The American 
Geriatrics Society.

DOI: 10.1111/jgs.13340
PMCID: PMC4407370
PMID: 25900489 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


391. Eur J Pharm Biopharm. 2015 Jun;93:254-9. doi: 10.1016/j.ejpb.2015.04.003.
Epub  2015 Apr 18.

Half-life extension of the HIV-fusion inhibitor peptide TRI-1144 using a novel 
linker technology.

Schneider EL(1), Ashley GW(1), Dillen L(2), Stoops B(2), Austin NE(2), Malcolm 
BA(2), Santi DV(3).

Author information:
(1)ProLynx LLC, 455 Mission Bay Blvd. South, Suite 145, San Francisco, CA 94158, 
USA.
(2)Janssen Pharmaceutical Research, Turnhoutseweg 30, 2340 Beerse, Belgium.
(3)ProLynx LLC, 455 Mission Bay Blvd. South, Suite 145, San Francisco, CA 94158, 
USA. Electronic address: Daniel.V.Santi@prolynxllc.com.

We have previously developed a linker technology for half-life extension of 
peptides, proteins and small molecule drugs (1). The linkers undergo 
β-elimination reactions with predictable cleavage rates to release the native 
drug. Here we utilize this technology for half-life extension of the 38 amino 
acid HIV-1 fusion inhibitor TRI-1144. Conjugation of TRI-1144 to 40 kDa PEG by 
an appropriate β-eliminative linker and i.v. administration of the conjugate 
increased the in vivo half-life of the released peptide from 4 to 34 h in the 
rat, and the pharmacokinetic parameters were in excellent accord with a 
one-compartment model. From these data we simulated the pharmacokinetics of the 
PEG-TRI-1144 conjugate in humans, predicting a t1/2,β of 70 h for the released 
peptide, and that a serum concentration of 25 nM could be maintained by weekly 
doses of 8 μmol of the conjugate. Using a non-circulating carrier (2) similar 
simulations indicated a t1/2,β of 150 h for the peptide released from the 
conjugate and that dosing of only 1.8 μmol/week could maintain serum 
concentrations of TRI-1144 above 25 nM. Hence, releasable β-eliminative linkers 
provide significant half-life extension to TRI-1144 and would be expected to do 
likewise for related peptides.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejpb.2015.04.003
PMID: 25900863 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


392. F1000Res. 2015 Jan 26;4:24. doi: 10.12688/f1000research.6075.2. eCollection 
2015.

The endothelial deprotection hypothesis for lupus pathogenesis: the dual role of 
C1q as a mediator of clearance and regulator of endothelial permeability.

Prechl J(1), Czirják L(2).

Author information:
(1)Diagnosticum Zrt, Budapest, 1047, Hungary ; MTA-ELTE Immunology Research 
Group, Budapest, 1117, Hungary.
(2)Department of Rheumatology and Immunology, Clinic Center, University of Pécs, 
Pécs, 7632, Hungary.

Systemic lupus erythematosus (SLE) is a heterogeneous multifactorial systemic 
autoimmune disease affecting several organs. SLE can start relatively early in 
life and results in impaired quality of life and shortened life expectancy 
because of a gradual disease progression leading to cardiovascular, renal and 
neoplastic disease. The basic mechanisms of the pathogenesis of the disease 
still remain to be clarified. It is clear that complement proteins play a key 
and complex role in the development of SLE. Complement component C1q has been 
known to be a fundamental component of lupus development, but most explanations 
focus on its role in apoptotic debris removal. Importantly, C1q was recently 
found to play a key role in the maintenance of vascular endothelial integrity. 
We suggest that apoptotic products, endothelial cells and extracellular matrix 
components, which display negatively charged moieties, compete for binding to 
molecules of the innate humoral immune response, like C1q. Genetic or acquired 
factors leading to an increased load of apoptotic cell debris and decrease or 
absence of C1q therefore interfere with the regulation of endothelial 
permeability and integrity. Furthermore, we suggest that lupus is the net result 
of an imbalance between the two functions of immune clearance and vascular 
endothelial integrity maintenance, an imbalance triggered and sustained by 
autoimmunity, which skews C1q consumption by IgG-mediated complement classical 
pathway activation on autoantigens. In this triangle of innate clearance, 
autoimmunity and endothelial integrity, C1q plays a central role. Hence, we 
interpret the pathogenesis of lupus by identifying three key components, namely 
innate immune clearance, autoimmunity and endothelial integrity and we establish 
a link between these components based on the protective role that innate 
clearance molecules play in endothelial renewal. By including the vasoprotective 
role of C1q in the interpretation of SLE development we attempt to provide novel 
explanations for the symptoms, organ damage, diagnostic and therapeutic 
difficulties of the disease.

DOI: 10.12688/f1000research.6075.2
PMCID: PMC4392829
PMID: 25901277

Conflict of interest statement: Competing interests: Diagnosticum and MTA-TKI, 
the employers of JP, are the licenser/owner of a patent on measuring complement 
activation on microarrays and owners of a patent application on the assessment 
of immunological reactivity using cell-based functional assays.


393. PLoS One. 2015 Apr 22;10(4):e0121607. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0121607. 
eCollection 2015.

Disentangling multidimensional spatio-temporal data into their common and 
aberrant responses.

Chang YH(1), Korkola J(2), Amin DN(3), Moasser MM(3), Carmena JM(4), Gray JW(2), 
Tomlin CJ(5).

Author information:
(1)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of 
California, Berkeley, CA, USA.
(2)Department of Biomedical Engineering and the Center for Spatial Systems 
Biomedicine, Oregon Health and Science University, Portland, OR, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Helen Diller Family Comprehensive Cancer Center, 
University of California, San Francisco, CA, USA.
(4)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, Helen Wills 
Neuroscience Institute, University of California, Berkeley and UCB/UCSF Graduate 
Program in Bioengineering, CA, USA.
(5)Department of Electrical Engineering and Computer Sciences, University of 
California, Berkeley, CA, USA; Faculty Scientist, Life Sciences Division, 
Lawrence Berkeley National Laboratory, Berkeley, CA, USA.

With the advent of high-throughput measurement techniques, scientists and 
engineers are starting to grapple with massive data sets and encountering 
challenges with how to organize, process and extract information into meaningful 
structures. Multidimensional spatio-temporal biological data sets such as time 
series gene expression with various perturbations over different cell lines, or 
neural spike trains across many experimental trials, have the potential to 
acquire insight about the dynamic behavior of the system. For this potential to 
be realized, we need a suitable representation to understand the data. A general 
question is how to organize the observed data into meaningful structures and how 
to find an appropriate similarity measure. A natural way of viewing these 
complex high dimensional data sets is to examine and analyze the large-scale 
features and then to focus on the interesting details. Since the wide range of 
experiments and unknown complexity of the underlying system contribute to the 
heterogeneity of biological data, we develop a new method by proposing an 
extension of Robust Principal Component Analysis (RPCA), which models common 
variations across multiple experiments as the lowrank component and anomalies 
across these experiments as the sparse component. We show that the proposed 
method is able to find distinct subtypes and classify data sets in a robust way 
without any prior knowledge by separating these common responses and abnormal 
responses. Thus, the proposed method provides us a new representation of these 
data sets which has the potential to help users acquire new insight from data.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0121607
PMCID: PMC4406848
PMID: 25901353 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


394. PLoS One. 2015 Apr 22;10(4):e0125018. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0125018. 
eCollection 2015.

Projected Lifetime Healthcare Costs Associated with HIV Infection.

Nakagawa F(1), Miners A(2), Smith CJ(1), Simmons R(3), Lodwick RK(4), Cambiano 
V(1), Lundgren JD(5), Delpech V(3), Phillips AN(1).

Author information:
(1)Research Department of Infection and Population Health, UCL, London, United 
Kingdom.
(2)Department of Health Services Research and Policy, London School of Hygiene & 
Tropical Medicine, London, United Kingdom.
(3)HIV and STI Department, Public Health England, London, United Kingdom.
(4)Research Department of Primary Care and Population Health, UCL, London, 
United Kingdom.
(5)Copenhagen HIV Programme (CHIP), Department of Infectious Diseases (8632), 
Rigshospitalet, University of Copenhagen, Copenhagen, Denmark.

OBJECTIVE: Estimates of healthcare costs associated with HIV infection would 
provide valuable insight for evaluating the cost-effectiveness of possible 
prevention interventions. We evaluate the additional lifetime healthcare cost 
incurred due to living with HIV.
METHODS: We used a stochastic computer simulation model to project the 
distribution of lifetime outcomes and costs of men-who-have-sex-with-men (MSM) 
infected with HIV in 2013 aged 30, over 10,000 simulations. We assumed a 
resource-rich setting with no loss to follow-up, and that standards and costs of 
healthcare management remain as now.
RESULTS: Based on a median (interquartile range) life expectancy of 71.5 
(45.0-81.5) years for MSM in such a setting, the estimated mean lifetime cost of 
treating one person was £ 360,800 ($567,000 or € 480,000). With 3.5% 
discounting, it was £ 185,200 ($291,000 or € 246,000). The largest proportion 
(68%) of these costs was attributed to antiretroviral drugs. If patented drugs 
are replaced by generic versions (at 20% cost of patented prices), estimated 
mean lifetime costs reduced to £ 179,000 ($ 281,000 or € 238,000) and £ 101,200 
($ 158,900 or € 134,600) discounted.
CONCLUSIONS: If 3,000 MSM had been infected in 2013, then future lifetime costs 
relating to HIV care is likely to be in excess of £ 1 billion. It is imperative 
for investment into prevention programmes to be continued or scaled-up in 
settings with good access to HIV care services. Costs would be reduced 
considerably with use of generic antiretroviral drugs.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0125018
PMCID: PMC4406522
PMID: 25901355 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


395. Klin Monbl Augenheilkd. 2015 Apr;232(4):570-2. doi: 10.1055/s-0034-1396332.
Epub  2015 Apr 22.

Ranibizumab treatment for retinal angiomatous proliferation lesions: a case 
report with life-long expectancy (seven years) follow-up.

Donati G(1), Pournaras CJ(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Ophthalmology, University Hospitals of Geneva, Geneva, 
Switzerland.
(2)Centre Ophtalmologique de Rive, Geneva, Switzerland.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0034-1396332
PMID: 25902126 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


396. Curr Aging Sci. 2015;8(1):24-33. doi: 10.2174/1874609808666150421131304.

Do we have genes that exist to hasten aging? New data, new arguments, but the 
answer is still no.

de Grey AD(1).

Author information:
(1)SENS Research Foundation, Mountain View, USA. aubrey@sens.org.

In the 60 years since Medawar questioned the assumption that aging is a selected 
trait with a fitness benefit, mainstream biogerontology has overwhelmingly 
adopted the view that aging is a product of evolutionary neglect rather than 
evolutionary intent. Recently, however, this question has come to merit further 
scrutiny, for three reasons: a variety of new ways in which aging could indeed 
be "programmed" have been proposed, several phenomena with superficial 
similarities to programmed aging have been suggested to offer evidence for it 
and against the mainstream consensus, and above all it has become appreciated 
that the existence or otherwise of "pro-aging genes" has enormous implications 
for determining our optimal strategy for the medical postponement of age-related 
ill-health. Accordingly, it is timely to revisit the arguments and data on this 
topic. In this article I discuss difficulties in reconciling the 
programmed-aging concept with existing data, flaws in various arguments given by 
others that existing data prove aging to be programmed, and extensions of these 
considerations to various phenomena that in one or another way resemble 
programmed aging. I conclude that, however much we might wish that aging were 
programmed and thus that the ill-health of old age could be greatly postponed 
just by disabling some aspect of our genetic makeup, the unfortunate truth is 
that no such program exists, and thus that our only option for substantial 
extension of healthspan is a divide-and-conquer panel of interventions to repair 
the damage that the body inflicts upon itself throughout life as side-effects of 
its normal operation. I explicitly avoid arguments that rely on unnecessarily 
abstruse evolutionary theory, in order to render my line of reasoning accessible 
to the broadest possible audience.

DOI: 10.2174/1874609808666150421131304
PMID: 25902458 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


397. Ann Hematol. 2015 Aug;94(8):1261-5. doi: 10.1007/s00277-015-2378-z. Epub
2015  Apr 24.

Neurological complications of beta-thalassemia.

Nemtsas P(1), Arnaoutoglou M, Perifanis V, Koutsouraki E, Orologas A.

Author information:
(1)First Department of Neurology, University General Hospital of Thessaloniki 
AHEPA, St.Kiriakidis 1, 546 36, Thessaloniki, Greece, pnemtsas@med.auth.gr.

The thalassemias are the most common single gene disorder in the world. Over the 
last years, several reports have demonstrated neurological complications in 
beta-thalassemia patients. In most cases, these complications remained 
subclinical and were detected only during neuropsychological, 
neurophysiological, or neuroimaging evaluation. Cognitive impairment, abnormal 
findings on evoked potentials, complications due to extramedullary 
hematopoiesis, cerebrovascular disease, and peripheral neuropathy comprise the 
broad spectrum of neurological involvement. Chronic hypoxia, iron overload, 
desferrioxamine neurotoxicity, and bone marrow expansion are implicated, but 
sufficient explanatory evidence is lacking and development of biomarkers is 
needed. This review summarizes current knowledge of the neurological 
complications. As life expectancy for beta-thalassemia patients increases, we 
support the use of neurophysiological, neuropsychological, or neuroimaging 
monitoring, enabling the evaluation of neural pathway impairment, to achieve 
appropriate management and as a result a better quality of life for this patient 
group.

DOI: 10.1007/s00277-015-2378-z
PMID: 25903043 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


398. J Med Econ. 2015;18(10):838-49. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1044457. Epub
2015  Jul 6.

A cost utility analysis of simeprevir used with peginterferon + ribavirin in the 
management of genotype 1 hepatitis C virus infection, from the perspective of 
the UK National Health Service.

Westerhout K(1), Treur M(1), Mehnert A(2), Pascoe K(3), Ladha I(3), Belsey J(4).

Author information:
(1)a a Pharmerit , Rotterdam , The Netherlands.
(2)b b Janssen EMEA , Beerse Belgium.
(3)c c Janssen , High Wycombe UK.
(4)d d JB Medical , Sudbury , UK.

INTRODUCTION: Triple therapy using a protease inhibitor (PI) with peginterferon 
and ribavirin (PR) is increasingly used in patients with chronic hepatitis C 
virus (HCV) infection. The most recently introduced PI, simeprevir (SMV), offers 
high levels of viral eradication combined with a reduced overall duration of 
therapy. The objective of this study was to compare the cost-effectiveness of 
SMV + PR vs PR alone or in combination with telaprevir (TVR) or boceprevir (BOC) 
in patients infected with genotype 1 HCV Method: A cost-utility model was 
constructed, incorporating two phases, capturing the efficacy of therapy in an 
initial treatment phase, followed by a long-term post-treatment Markov phase, 
capturing lifetime outcomes according to whether a sustained viral response 
(SVR) had been achieved on treatment. Dosage regimens were based on the EMA 
approved label for each treatment. SVR estimates and adverse event rates were 
derived from a mixed treatment comparison. Baseline characteristics were drawn 
from an analysis of a UK HCV data-set and clinician opinion. Health state 
transition probabilities, utilities, and health state costs were drawn from 
previously published economic analyses. The model considered direct health costs 
only, and the perspective was that of the UK National Health Service.
RESULTS: The model yielded an ICER for SMV + PR vs PR alone of £9725/QALY for 
treatment-naïve and £7819/QALY for treatment-experienced. Benefit was driven by 
increased likelihood of achieving SVR, with consequent long-term utility gains. 
SMV + PR dominated TVR + PR and BOC + PR in both patient groups. This 
principally reflected the QALY benefit of an increased likelihood of SVR with 
SMV, combined with lower overall drug costs, due to reduced mean treatment 
duration.
CONCLUSION: Compared to other currently licensed treatment options, SMV + PR 
represents a cost effective treatment option for patients with chronic genotype 
1 HCV infection.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1044457
PMID: 25903830 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


399. J Med Econ. 2015;18(9):746-61. doi: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1044456. Epub 2015
Jun  8.

Cost-effectiveness analysis of quadrivalent influenza vaccination in at-risk 
adults and the elderly: an updated analysis in the U.K.

Meier G(1), Gregg M, Poulsen Nautrup B.

Author information:
(1)a a Health Economics, GSK Vaccines , Wavre , Belgium.

OBJECTIVE: To update an earlier evaluation estimating the cost-effectiveness of 
quadrivalent influenza vaccination (QIV) compared with trivalent influenza 
vaccination (TIV) in the adult population currently recommended for influenza 
vaccination in the UK (all people aged ≥65 years and people aged 18-64 years 
with clinical risk conditions).
METHODS: This analysis takes into account updated vaccine prices, reference 
costs, influenza strain circulation, and burden of illness data. A lifetime, 
multi-cohort, static Markov model was constructed with seven age groups. The 
model was run in 1-year cycles for a lifetime, i.e., until the youngest patients 
at entry reached the age of 100 years. The base-case analysis was from the 
perspective of the UK National Health Service, with a secondary analysis from 
the societal perspective. Costs and benefits were discounted at 3.5%. Herd 
effects were not included. Inputs were derived from systematic reviews, 
peer-reviewed articles, and government publications and databases. One-way and 
probabilistic sensitivity analyses were performed.
RESULTS: In the base-case, QIV would be expected to avoid 1,413,392 influenza 
cases, 41,780 hospitalizations, and 19,906 deaths over the lifetime horizon, 
compared with TIV. The estimated incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER) was 
£14,645 per quality-adjusted life-year (QALY) gained. From the societal 
perspective, the estimated ICER was £13,497/QALY. A strategy of vaccinating only 
people aged ≥65 years had an estimated ICER of £11,998/QALY. Sensitivity 
analysis indicated that only two parameters, seasonal variation in influenza B 
matching and influenza A circulation, had a substantial effect on the ICER. QIV 
would be likely to be cost-effective compared with TIV in 68% of simulations 
with a willingness-to-pay threshold of <£20,000/QALY and 87% with a 
willingness-to-pay threshold of <£30,000/QALY.
CONCLUSIONS: In this updated analysis, QIV was estimated to be cost-effective 
compared with TIV in the U.K.

DOI: 10.3111/13696998.2015.1044456
PMID: 25903831 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


400. J Chem Phys. 2015 Apr 21;142(15):154102. doi: 10.1063/1.4917174.

Anisotropic elliptical dichroism and influence of imperfection of circular 
polarization upon anisotropic circular dichroism.

Wakabayashi M(1), Yokojima S(2), Fukaminato T(3), Ohtani H(1), Nakamura S(4).

Author information:
(1)Department of Biomolecular Engineering, Tokyo Institute of Technology, 4259 
Nagatsuta-cho, Midori-ku, Yokohama, Kanagawa 226-8501, Japan.
(2)Tokyo University of Pharmacy and Life Sciences, 1432-1 Horinouchi, 
Hachiouji-shi, Tokyo 192-0392, Japan.
(3)Research Institute for Electronic Science, Hokkaido University, N20, W10, 
Kita-ku, Sapporo 001-0020, Japan.
(4)RIKEN, Research Cluster for Innovation, Nakamura Lab, 2-1 Hirosawa, Wako, 
Saitama 351-0198, Japan.

In spite of the importance of anisotropic circular dichroism, in practice, it is 
difficult to get rid of the artifacts that arise from the imperfection of the 
circular polarization. Undesirable linear dichroism, interference of two 
orthogonal polarization states, and linear birefringence prevent us from making 
accurate measurements. We propose a theoretical method for evaluating the 
contributions of the first two, which are thought to be the main artifacts when 
specimens are not thick enough. Using the time-dependent perturbation theory and 
taking into account the direction of light propagation toward an orientationally 
fixed molecule, we formulated the transition probability of systems perturbed by 
arbitrarily polarized light and the absorption difference associated with two 
kinds of polarized light. We also formulated, as an extension of the dissymmetry 
factor of circular dichroism, a newly defined dissymmetry factor associated with 
two arbitrary polarization states. Furthermore, we considered a mixed-state of 
photon ensemble in which polarization states distribute at a certain width 
around a certain average. Although the purity of polarization and ellipticity 
does not correspond immediately, by considering the mixed state it is possible 
to treat them consistently. We used quantum statistical mechanics to describe 
the absorption difference for two kinds of photon ensembles and applied the 
consequent formula to examine the reported experimental results of 
single-molecule chiroptical responses under discussion in the recent past. The 
artifacts are theoretically suggested to be sensitive to the incident direction 
of elliptically polarized light and to the oriented systems, the ellipticity, 
and the orientation of ellipse. The mixed state has little, if any, effect when 
the polarization state distribution is narrow.

DOI: 10.1063/1.4917174
PMID: 25903861 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


401. J Aging Health. 2015 Oct;27(7):1247-65. doi: 10.1177/0898264315577880. Epub
2015  Apr 22.

Acculturation, Gender, and Active Life Expectancy in the Mexican-Origin 
Population.

Garcia MA(1), Angel JL(2), Angel RJ(2), Chiu CT(3), Melvin J(4).

Author information:
(1)University of Texas at Austin, USA mgarcia@prc.utexas.edu.
(2)University of Texas at Austin, USA.
(3)Academia Sinica, Taipei, Taiwan.
(4)Flagler College, St. Augustine, Florida, USA.

OBJECTIVE: This study examines the potential effects of nativity and 
acculturation on active life expectancy (ALE) among Mexican-origin elders.
METHOD: We employ 17 years of data from the Hispanic Established Population for 
the Epidemiologic Study of the Elderly to calculate ALE at age 65 with and 
without disabilities.
RESULTS: Native-born males and foreign-born females spend a larger fraction of 
their elderly years with activities of daily living (ADL) disability. 
Conversely, both foreign-born males and females spend a larger fraction of their 
remaining years with instrumental activities of daily life (IADL) disability 
than the native-born. In descriptive analysis, women with low acculturation 
report higher ADL and IADL disability. Men manifest similar patterns for IADLs.
DISCUSSION: Although foreign-born elders live slightly longer lives, they do so 
with more years spent in a disabled state. Given the rapid aging of the 
Mexican-origin population, the prevention and treatment of disabilities, 
particularly among the foreign born, should be a major public health priority.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264315577880
PMCID: PMC5523862
PMID: 25903974 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Declaration of Conflicting Interests The authors 
declared no potential conflicts of interest with respect to the research, 
authorship, and/or publication of this article.


402. J Aging Health. 2015 Dec;27(8):1375-91. doi: 10.1177/0898264315583053. Epub
2015  Apr 22.

The Role of Energy Balance in Successful Aging Among Elderly Individuals: The 
Multinational MEDIS Study.

Tyrovolas S(1), Haro JM(2), Mariolis A(3), Piscopo S(4), Valacchi G(5), Makri 
K(6), Zeimbekis A(7), Tyrovola D(8), Bountziouka V(8), Gotsis E(8), Metallinos 
G(8), Tur JA(9), Matalas A(8), Lionis C(6), Polychronopoulos E(8), Panagiotakos 
D(10).

Author information:
(1)Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Fundació Sant Joan de Déu, CIBERSAM, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain Department of Nutrition and 
Dietetics, School of Health Science and Education, Harokopio University, Athens, 
Greece.
(2)Parc Sanitari Sant Joan de Déu, Fundació Sant Joan de Déu, CIBERSAM, 
Universitat de Barcelona, Barcelona, Spain.
(3)Health Center of Aeropolis, General Hospital of Sparta, Aeropolis, Greece.
(4)University of Malta, Nutrition, Family and Consumer Studies Office, Msida, 
Republic of Malta.
(5)Department of Life Sciences and Biotechnology, University of Ferrara, 
Ferrara, Italy.
(6)Clinic of Social and Family Medicine, School of Medicine, University of 
Crete, Heraklion, Greece.
(7)Health Center of Kalloni, General Hospital of Mitilini, Mitilini, Greece.
(8)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, School of Health Science and 
Education, Harokopio University, Athens, Greece.
(9)Research Group on Community Nutrition and Oxidative Stress, Universitat de 
les Illes Balears & CIBERobn, Guillem Colom Bldg, Campus, E-07122 Palma de 
Mallorca, Spain.
(10)Department of Nutrition and Dietetics, School of Health Science and 
Education, Harokopio University, Athens, Greece dbpanag@hua.gr.

OBJECTIVE: The determinants that promote living beyond life expectancy and 
successful aging still remain unknown. The aim of the present work was to 
evaluate the role of energy balance in successful aging, in a random sample of 
older adults living in the Mediterranean basin.
METHOD: During 2005 to 2011, 2,663 older (aged 65-100 years) adults from 21 
Mediterranean islands and the rural Mani region (Peloponnesus) of Greece were 
voluntarily enrolled in the study. Dietary habits, energy intake, expenditure, 
and energy balance were derived throughout standard procedures. A successful 
aging index (range = 0-10) was used.
RESULTS: After adjusting for several confounders, high energy intake (i.e., 
>1,700 kcal/day), b-coefficient [95% CI] = -0.21[-0.37, -0.05], as well as 
positive energy balance, b-coefficient [95% CI] = -0.21 [-0.37, -0.05], were 
inversely associated with successful aging.
CONCLUSION: A diet with excessive energy intake and a positive energy balance 
seems to be associated with lower quality of life, as measured through 
successful aging.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0898264315583053
PMID: 25903982 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


403. Age Ageing. 2015 Jul;44(4):610-5. doi: 10.1093/ageing/afv052. Epub 2015 Apr
22.

Inflammatory markers and physical performance in middle-aged and older people in 
Indonesia.

Sujarwoto S(1), Tampubolon G(2).

Author information:
(1)Faculty of Public Administration, University of Brawijaya, Malang, Indonesia.
(2)Cathie Marsh Institute for Social Research, Manchester, Lancashire, UK.

BACKGROUND: although recent studies have suggested that inflammation may play an 
important role in the process of ageing and in the development of disabilities, 
knowledge about the role of inflammation in physical performance decline among 
middle-aged and older people in the context of developing countries is limited.
OBJECTIVES: to examine the association between C-reactive protein (CRP) and the 
activities of daily living (ADL) among middle-aged (40-54 years old) and older 
(55-96 years old) people in Indonesia.
DATA: data from a population-based sample, the Indonesia Family Life Survey 
(IFLS) 2007, were analysed. The data consist of 1,702 respondents of middle age 
(40-54 years old) and 2,017 older respondents who had completed information on 
ADL and CRP.
METHODS: CRP concentrations in Dried Blood Spot (DBS) specimens were measured, 
using the validated enzyme-linked immunosorbent assay (ELISA) method. Thirteen 
items of ADL were used to measure physical performance. A three-level linear 
model was applied to take advantage of the nested structure of data at the 
individual level within the household and community levels.
RESULTS: high levels of CRP were significantly associated with lower ADL for 
middle-aged and older people (P < 0.001). The model was adjusted for co-morbid 
conditions, health risk factors, medications, depressive symptoms and 
sociodemographic characteristics.
CONCLUSION: the significant association between the high level of CRP and lower 
ADL among older people in Indonesia is in line with earlier studies in the 
context of developed countries. This study provides an extension in which the 
significant association was also found in middle-aged people (40-54 years old).

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of the British 
Geriatrics Society. All rights reserved. For Permissions, please email: 
journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/ageing/afv052
PMID: 25904444 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


404. Neurology. 2015 May 19;84(20):2062-9. doi: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001582.
Epub  2015 Apr 22.

White matter hyperintensities in middle-aged adults with childhood-onset type 1 
diabetes.

Nunley KA(1), Ryan CM(1), Orchard TJ(1), Aizenstein HJ(1), Jennings JR(1), Ryan 
J(1), Zgibor JC(1), Boudreau RM(1), Costacou T(1), Maynard JD(1), Miller RG(1), 
Rosano C(2).

Author information:
(1)From the Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health 
(K.A.N., T.J.O., J.C.Z., R.M.B., T.C., R.G.M., C.R.) and Department of 
Psychiatry, School of Medicine (C.M.R., H.J.A., J.R.J., J.R.), University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA; and VeraLight Inc. (J.D.M.), Albuquerque, NM.
(2)From the Department of Epidemiology, Graduate School of Public Health 
(K.A.N., T.J.O., J.C.Z., R.M.B., T.C., R.G.M., C.R.) and Department of 
Psychiatry, School of Medicine (C.M.R., H.J.A., J.R.J., J.R.), University of 
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, PA; and VeraLight Inc. (J.D.M.), Albuquerque, NM. 
rosanoc@edc.pitt.edu.

Comment in
    Nat Rev Endocrinol. 2015 Aug;11(8):447-8.

OBJECTIVE: Although microvascular complications are common in type 1 diabetes 
mellitus (T1DM), few studies have quantified the severity, risk factors, and 
implications of cerebral microvascular damage in these patients. As life 
expectancy in patients with T1DM increases, patients are exposed to age- and 
disease-related factors that may contribute to cerebral microvascular disease.
METHODS: Severity and volume of white matter hyperintensities (WMH) and infarcts 
were quantified in 97 middle-aged patients with childhood-onset T1DM (mean age 
and duration: 50 and 41 years, respectively) and 81 non-T1DM adults (mean age: 
48 years), concurrent with cognitive and health-related measures.
RESULTS: Compared with non-T1DM participants, patients had more severe WMH 
(Fazekas scores 2 and 3 compared with Fazekas score 1, p < 0.0001) and slower 
information processing (digit symbol substitution, number correct: 65.7 ± 10.9 
and 54.9 ± 13.6; pegboard, seconds: 66.0 ± 9.9 and 88.5 ± 34.2; both p < 0.0001) 
independent of age, education, or other factors. WMH were associated with slower 
information processing; adjusting for WMH attenuated the group differences in 
processing speed (13% for digit symbol, 11% for pegboard, both p ≤ 0.05). Among 
patients, prevalent neuropathies and smoking tripled the odds of high WMH 
burden, independent of age or disease duration. Associations between measures of 
blood pressure or hyperglycemia and WMH were not significant.
CONCLUSIONS: Clinically relevant WMH are evident earlier among middle-aged 
patients with childhood-onset T1DM and are related to the slower information 
processing frequently observed in T1DM. Brain imaging in patients with T1DM who 
have cognitive difficulties, especially those with neuropathies, may help 
uncover cerebral microvascular damage. Longitudinal studies are warranted to 
fully characterize WMH development, risk factors, and long-term effects on 
cognition.

© 2015 American Academy of Neurology.

DOI: 10.1212/WNL.0000000000001582
PMCID: PMC4442104
PMID: 25904692 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


405. J Neurosci. 2015 Apr 22;35(16):6381-93. doi: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3644-14.2015.

Immunization with a Myelin-Derived Antigen Activates the Brain's Choroid Plexus 
for Recruitment of Immunoregulatory Cells to the CNS and Attenuates Disease 
Progression in a Mouse Model of ALS.

Kunis G(1), Baruch K(1), Miller O(1), Schwartz M(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, 
Israel.
(2)Department of Neurobiology, Weizmann Institute of Science, Rehovot 76100, 
Israel Michal.Schwartz@weizmann.ac.il.

Amyotrophic lateral sclerosis (ALS) is a devastating fatal motor neuron disease, 
for which there is currently no cure or effective treatment. In this disease, 
local neuroinflammation develops along the disease course and contributes to its 
rapid progression. In several models of CNS pathologies, circulating immune 
cells were shown to display an indispensable role in the resolution of the 
neuroinflammatory response. The recruitment of such cells to the CNS involves 
activation of the choroid plexus (CP) of the brain for leukocyte trafficking, 
through a mechanism that requires IFN-γ signaling. Here, we found that in the 
mutant SOD1(G93A) (mSOD1) mouse model of ALS, the CP does not support leukocyte 
trafficking during disease progression, due to a local reduction in IFN-γ 
levels. Therapeutic immunization of mSOD1 mice with a myelin-derived peptide led 
to CP activation, and was followed by the accumulation of immunoregulatory 
cells, including IL-10-producing monocyte-derived macrophages and Foxp3(+) 
regulatory T cells, and elevation of the neurotrophic factors IGF-1 and GDNF in 
the diseased spinal cord parenchyma. The immunization resulted in the 
attenuation of disease progression and an increased life expectancy of the mSOD1 
mice. Collectively, our results demonstrate that recruitment of immunoregulatory 
cells to the diseased spinal cord in ALS, needed for fighting off the pathology, 
can be enhanced by transiently boosting peripheral immunity to myelin antigens.

Copyright © 2015 the authors 0270-6474/15/356381-13$15.00/0.

DOI: 10.1523/JNEUROSCI.3644-14.2015
PMCID: PMC6605216
PMID: 25904790 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


406. Iran J Public Health. 2015 Mar;44(3):341-51.

The Association between Peace and Life Expectancy: An Empirical Study of the 
World Countries.

Yazdi Feyzabadi V(1), Haghdoost A(2), Mehrolhassani MH(3), Aminian Z(3).

Author information:
(1)Dept. of Health Management and Economics, School of Public Health, Tehran 
University of Medical Sciences, Tehran, Iran ; Research Center for Health 
Services Management, Institute for Futures Studies in Health, Kerman University 
of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(2)Research Center for Modeling in Health, Institute for Futures Studies in 
Health, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.
(3)Research Center for Social Determinants of Health, Institute for Futures 
Studies in Health, Kerman University of Medical Sciences, Kerman, Iran.

BACKGROUND: Although theoretically peace affects health, few published evidence 
for such an association was empirically available. This study aimed to explore 
the association between peace and life expectancy (LE) among the world 
countries.
METHODS: In an ecological study and using random effects regression model, we 
examined the association between peace and LE among world countries between 2007 
and 2012. The LE at birth and global peace index (GPI: a score between 1 and 5, 
higher score means lower peace) were selected as outcome and main predictor 
variables, respectively. We adjusted their association for the gross national 
income (GNI) per capita and education index (EI). Data were obtained from the 
Institute for Economics and Peace (IEP) and UNDP (United Nations Development 
Programme (UNDP). Numbers of included countries were 158 based on the available 
data.
RESULTS: GPI had a negative, considerable, and statistically significant effect 
on LE (standardized coefficient -0.039; 95% CI: -0.058, -0.019). This 
association was also significant even after the adjustment for EI (-0.019; 95% 
CI: -0.035, -0.003), GNI (-0.035; 95% CI: -0.055, -0.015), and both EI and GNI 
(-0.017; 95% CI: -0.033, -0.001). The full model showed that around 0.61 of the 
variation of LE among countries may be explained by the GPI, EI and GNI per 
capita.
CONCLUSION: The contribution of peace as a global determinant of LE was 
empirically considerable even after the adjustment for the economic and 
education levels of countries. This implies that governments should make efforts 
to settle peace through implementing good governance based on interactions with 
both public and other countries.

PMCID: PMC4402412
PMID: 25905077


407. Growth Hormone in Aging.

Garcia JM(1), Merriam GR(2), Kargi AY(3).

In: Feingold KR(4), Anawalt B(5), Blackman MR(6), Boyce A(7), Chrousos G(8), 
Corpas E(9), de Herder WW(10), Dhatariya K(11), Dungan K(12), Hofland J(13), 
Kalra S(14), Kaltsas G(15), Kapoor N(16), Koch C(17), Kopp P(18), Korbonits 
M(19), Kovacs CS(20), Kuohung W(21), Laferrère B(22), Levy M(23), McGee EA(24), 
McLachlan R(25), New M(26), Purnell J(27), Sahay R(28), Shah AS(29), Singer 
F(30), Sperling MA(31), Stratakis CA(32), Trence DL(33), Wilson DP(34), editors. 
Endotext [Internet]. South Dartmouth (MA): MDText.com, Inc.; 2000–.
2019 Oct 7.

Author information:
(1)Associate Professor, Department of Medicine, University of Washington School 
of Medicine
