consolidated in the Cooperation for Sustainable Prevention Research (KNP) 
meta-project. In annual strategy meetings, researchers and practitioners from 
the field and other experts developed 3 memoranda providing recommendations for 
the further development of research and practice in the field of prevention and 
health promotion. Memorandum III is primarily aimed at decision-makers in 
politics and administration at the federal, state and local level, in civil 
society and in the workplace. Its recommendations show that structuring efforts 
are urgently needed to achieve sustainable policy, particularly in the fields of 
health, education, employment and social affairs. Memorandum III brings together 
the knowledge extracted and problems identified in research projects. More so 
than its 2 predecessors, Memorandum III abstracts knowledge from the individual 
projects and attempts to derive guidance for action and decision-making, as 
shown by the 7 recommendations that appear to useful for consensus-building in 
practice and research. Value judgments are inevitable. Prevention and health 
promotion are an investment in the future: of social health, social capital and 
social peace. Improvement of the framework conditions is needed to achieve the 
harmonized awareness and the sustained effectiveness of these structure-building 
efforts in different policy areas, spheres of life, fields of action, and groups 
of actors. This includes the implementation of an overall national strategy as 
well as the expansion of sources of funding, extension of the legal framework, 
overarching coordination, and the establishment of a National Center of 
Excellence to develop and safeguard prevention and health promotion. The 
memorandum is intended to stimulate a discourse resulting in structure-building 
and stabilizing measures designed to ensure the sustainability of prevention and 
health promotion.

© Georg Thieme Verlag KG Stuttgart · New York.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1549949
PMID: 26018541 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


703. Br J Haematol. 2015 Sep;170(6):757-67. doi: 10.1111/bjh.13526. Epub 2015 May
27.

How we prevent and manage infection in sickle cell disease.

Sobota A(1)(2), Sabharwal V(1)(2), Fonebi G(1)(3), Steinberg M(1)(3).

Author information:
(1)Boston University School of Medicine, Boston, MA, USA.
(2)Department of Pediatrics, Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.
(3)Department of Medicine, Boston Medical Center, Boston, MA, USA.

Sickle cell disease (SCD) affects approximately 100,000 people in the US, 12,500 
in the UK, and millions worldwide. SCD is typified by painful vaso-occlusive 
episodes, haemolytic anaemia and organ damage. A secondary complication is 
infection, which can be bacterial, fungal or viral. Universal newborn screening, 
routine use of penicillin prophylaxis, availability of conjugated vaccines 
against S. pneumoniae and comprehensive care programmes instituted during the 
past few decades in industrialized countries have dramatically reduced childhood 
mortality and improved life expectancy. Yet patients with SCD remain at 
increased risk of infection. Unfortunately, the treatment of most bacterial 
infections that are common in SCD is not based on the results of randomized 
controlled clinical trials. In their absence, treatment decisions are based on 
consensus guidelines, clinical experience or adapting treatment applied in other 
diseases. This leads to wide variation in treatment among institutions and even 
between treating physicians in a single institution. Prevention of infection, 
when possible, is most important and we focus on prevention through targeted 
prophylaxis and vaccination. We will share our management strategies for 
managing the more common infections in SCD and provide the rationale for our 
recommendations.

© 2015 John Wiley & Sons Ltd.

DOI: 10.1111/bjh.13526
PMID: 26018640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


704. J Med Screen. 2015 Dec;22(4):201-6. doi: 10.1177/0969141315586639. Epub 2015
May  27.

Swiss Medical Board Mammography screening predictions for Switzerland: 
importance of time-periods.

de Koning HJ(1), Heijnsdijk EA(2).

Author information:
(1)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands h.dekoning@erasmusmc.nl.
(2)Department of Public Health, Erasmus MC, University Medical Center Rotterdam, 
PO Box 2040, 3000 CA Rotterdam, The Netherlands.

OBJECTIVES: In 2013, the Swiss Medical Board (SMB) concluded that for three 
breast cancer screens over 13 years in Switzerland, cost-effectiveness was 
negative, with no additional benefits in quality-adjusted life-years gained. We 
compared these suggested predicted effects with other estimates.
METHODS: We used an extensively validated model on the natural history of breast 
cancer in Switzerland, comparing a 13-year time frame, a life-time perspective, 
and a continuous screening programme, per 10,000 Swiss women. Both approaches 
used the Swedish randomized controlled trials for the theoretical effect.
RESULTS: Over 13 years, both approaches yield comparable life-years gained (56 
versus 67), but in expectation in 10,000 women's lifetimes 444 life-years are 
gained, and in a continuous screening programme (instead of three screens) 839 
years. The SMB estimate of 56 life-years gained is counterweighted by 57 
negative quality of life adjusted years, primarily resulting from a 5% annual 
loss for 10% of women, being false-positive results. International literature is 
consistent with more than four times lower losses on false-positives. The 
estimate of overdiagnosed cases in the 13-year time frame was four times higher 
than in the long-term perspective.
CONCLUSIONS: By restricting life-years gained to a 13-year time frame the SMB 
prediction on benefits of mammography screening is unrealistically low. 
Predicting long-term harms and benefits, specifically tailored to observations, 
regarding the clinical situation before screening commences, and possible data 
during a screening programme, are crucial for women, professionals, and 
policymakers.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0969141315586639
PMID: 26018779 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


705. Rev Saude Publica. 2015;49:29. doi: 10.1590/s0034-8910.2015049005571. Epub
2015  May 19.

Diabetes burden in Brazil: fraction attributable to overweight, obesity, and 
excess weight.

Flor LS, Campos MR, Oliveira AF, Schramm JM.

OBJECTIVE To estimate the burden of type 2 diabetes mellitus and its percentage 
attributable to overweight and obesity in Brazil. METHODS The burden of diabetes 
mellitus was described in terms of disability-adjusted life years, which is the 
sum of two components: years of life lost and years lived with disability. To 
calculate the fraction of diabetes mellitus attributable to overweight, obesity, 
and excess weight, we used the prevalence of these risk factors according to sex 
and age groups (> 20 years) obtained from the 2008 Pesquisa Dimensões Sociais 
das Desigualdades (Social Dimensions of Inequality Survey) and the relative 
risks derived from the international literature. RESULTS Diabetes mellitus 
accounted for 5.4% of Brazilian disability-adjusted life years in 2008, with the 
largest fraction attributed to the morbidity component (years lived with 
disability). Women exhibited higher values for disability-adjusted life years. 
In Brazil, 49.2%, 58.3%, and 70.6% of diabetes mellitus in women was 
attributable to overweight, obesity, and excess weight, respectively. Among men, 
these percentages were 40.5%, 45.4%, and 60.3%, respectively. Differences were 
observed with respect to Brazilian regions and age groups. CONCLUSIONS A large 
fraction of diabetes mellitus was attributable to preventable individual risk 
factors and, in about six years, the contribution of these factors significant 
increased, particularly among men. Policies aimed at promoting healthy lifestyle 
habits, such as a balanced diet and physical activity, can have a significant 
impact on reducing the burden of diabetes mellitus in Brazil.

OBJETIVO: Estimar a carga do diabetes mellitus tipo 2 e sua fração atribuível ao 
sobrepeso e obesidade no Brasil.
MÉTODOS: A carga de diabetes mellitus foi descrita por meio dos anos de vida 
perdidos ajustados por incapacidade, a partir da soma de dois componentes: anos 
de vida perdidos por morte prematura e anos de vida perdidos devido à 
incapacidade. Para o cálculo da fração do diabetes mellitus devida ao sobrepeso, 
à obesidade e ao excesso de peso, foram utilizadas as prevalências desses 
fatores de risco por sexo e faixa etária (> 20 anos), obtidas na Pesquisa 
Dimensões Sociais das Desigualdades, do ano de 2008, e os riscos relativos 
obtidos na literatura internacional.
RESULTADOS: Diabetes mellitus respondeu por 5,4% dos anos de vida perdidos 
ajustados por incapacidade em 2008, sendo a maior parcela atribuída ao 
componente de morbidade (anos de vida perdidos devido à incapacidade). As 
mulheres apresentaram maiores valores de anos de vida ajustados para 
incapacidade. No Brasil, 49,2%, 58,3% e 70,6% do diabetes mellitus no sexo 
feminino foram atribuíveis ao sobrepeso, à obesidade e ao excesso de peso, 
respectivamente. Entre os homens, esses percentuais foram 40,5%, 45,4% e 60,3%, 
respectivamente. Diferenças foram observadas no que tange às grandes regiões 
brasileiras e às faixas etárias.
CONCLUSÕES: Grande parte da carga do diabetes foi atribuível a fatores de risco 
modificáveis e, em aproximadamente seis anos, a contribuição desses fatores 
aumentou expressivamente, sobretudo entre os homens. Políticas voltadas à 
promoção de hábitos saudáveis de vida, como alimentação balanceada e prática de 
atividade física, podem ter um impacto significativo na redução da carga de 
diabetes mellitus no Brasil.

DOI: 10.1590/s0034-8910.2015049005571
PMCID: PMC4544418
PMID: 26018787 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare no conflict of interest.


706. J Gerontol A Biol Sci Med Sci. 2016 May;71(5):578-85. doi: 
10.1093/gerona/glv074. Epub 2015 May 26.

Human Aging Is a Metabolome-related Matter of Gender.

Jové M(1), Maté I(2), Naudí A(1), Mota-Martorell N(1), Portero-Otín M(1), De la 
Fuente M(3), Pamplona R(1).

Author information:
(1)Department of Experimental Medicine, University of Lleida-Biomedical Research 
Institute of Lleida (IRBLleida), Spain.
(2)Department of Animal Physiology II, Complutense University of Madrid, Spain.
(3)Department of Animal Physiology II, Complutense University of Madrid, Spain. 
mondelaf@bio.ucm.es.

A molecular description of the mechanisms by which aging is produced is still 
very limited. Here, we have determined the plasma metabolite profile by using 
high-throughput metabolome profiling technologies of 150 healthy humans ranging 
from 30 to 100 years of age. Using a nontargeted approach, we detected 2,678 
metabolite species in plasma, and the multivariate analyses separated perfectly 
two groups indicating a specific signature for each gender. In addition, there 
is a set of gender-shared metabolites, which change significantly during aging 
with a similar tendency. Among the identified molecules, we found vitamin 
D2-related compound, phosphoserine (40:5), monoacylglyceride (22:1), 
diacylglyceride (33:2), and resolvin D6, all of them decreasing with the aging 
process. Finally, we found three molecules that directly correlate with age and 
seven that inversely correlate with age, independently of gender. Among the 
identified molecules (6 of 10 according to exact mass and retention time), we 
found a proteolytic product (l-γ-glutamyl-l-leucine), which increased with age. 
On the contrary, a hydroxyl fatty acid (25-hydroxy-hexacosanoic), a 
polyunsaturated fatty acid (eicosapentaenoic acid), two phospholipids 
(phosphocholine [42:9]and phosphoserine [42:3]) and a prostaglandin 
(15-keto-prostaglandin F2α) decreased with aging. These results suggest that 
lipid species and their metabolism are closely linked to the aging process.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press on behalf of The 
Gerontological Society of America. All rights reserved. For permissions, please 
e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/gerona/glv074
PMID: 26019184 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


707. Aust N Z J Psychiatry. 2016 Apr;50(4):352-62. doi: 10.1177/0004867415587951.
 Epub 2015 May 27.

Central nervous system medication use in older adults with intellectual 
disability: Results from the successful ageing in intellectual disability study.

Chitty KM(1), Evans E(1), Torr JJ(2), Iacono T(3), Brodaty H(4), Sachdev P(5), 
Trollor JN(6).

Author information:
(1)Department of Developmental Disability Neuropsychiatry, UNSW Australia, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia.
(2)Centre for Developmental Disability Health, Monash University, Notting Hill, 
VIC, Australia.
(3)La Trobe Rural Health School, La Trobe University, Bendigo, VIC, Australia.
(4)Centre for Healthy Brain Ageing, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia 
Dementia Collaborative Research Centre, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia 
Academic Department for Old Age Psychiatry, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, 
NSW, Australia.
(5)Centre for Healthy Brain Ageing, UNSW Australia, Sydney, NSW, Australia 
Neuropsychiatric Institute, Prince of Wales Hospital, Randwick, NSW, Australia.
(6)Department of Developmental Disability Neuropsychiatry, UNSW Australia, 
Sydney, NSW, Australia Centre for Healthy Brain Ageing, UNSW Australia, Sydney, 
NSW, Australia j.trollor@unsw.edu.au.

OBJECTIVE: Information on the rates and predictors of polypharmacy of central 
nervous system medication in older people with intellectual disability is 
limited, despite the increased life expectancy of this group. This study 
examined central nervous system medication use in an older sample of people with 
intellectual disability.
METHODS: Data regarding demographics, psychiatric diagnoses and current 
medications were collected as part of a larger survey completed by carers of 
people with intellectual disability over the age of 40 years. Recruitment 
occurred predominantly via disability services across different urban and rural 
locations in New South Wales and Victoria. Medications were coded according to 
the Monthly Index of Medical Specialties central nervous system medication 
categories, including sedatives/hypnotics, anti-anxiety agents, antipsychotics, 
antidepressants, central nervous system stimulants, movement disorder 
medications and anticonvulsants. The Developmental Behaviour Checklist for 
Adults was used to assess behaviour.
RESULTS: Data were available for 114 people with intellectual disability. In 
all, 62.3% of the sample was prescribed a central nervous system medication, 
with 47.4% taking more than one. Of those who were medicated, 46.5% had a 
neurological diagnosis (a seizure disorder or Parkinson's disease) and 45.1% had 
a psychiatric diagnosis (an affective or psychotic disorder). Linear regression 
revealed that polypharmacy was predicted by the presence of neurological and 
psychiatric diagnosis, higher Developmental Behaviour Checklist for Adults 
scores and male gender.
CONCLUSION: This study is the first to focus on central nervous system 
medication in an older sample with intellectual disability. The findings are in 
line with the wider literature in younger people, showing a high degree of 
prescription and polypharmacy. Within the sample, there seems to be adequate 
rationale for central nervous system medication prescription. Although these 
data do not indicate non-adherence to guidelines for prescribing in intellectual 
disability, the high rate of polypharmacy and its relationship to Developmental 
Behaviour Checklist for Adults scores reiterate the importance of continued 
medication review in older people with intellectual disability.

© The Royal Australian and New Zealand College of Psychiatrists 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0004867415587951
PMID: 26019276 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


708. Ann Otol Rhinol Laryngol. 2015 Oct;124(10):834-40. doi: 
10.1177/0003489415588128. Epub 2015 May 27.

The Solid Component of Radiographically Non-Growing, Post-Radiated Vestibular 
Schwannoma Retains Proliferative Capacity: Implications for Patient Counseling.

Jacob A(1), Igarashi S(2), Platto T(3), Khan R(4), Jain R(5).

Author information:
(1)University of Arizona Ear Institute, University of Arizona Department of 
Otolaryngology, University of Arizona Cancer Center, The University of Arizona 
Bio5 Institute, Tucson, Arizona, USA ajacob@oto.arizona.edu.
(2)University of Arizona Ear Institute, University of Arizona Department of 
Otolaryngology, University of Arizona Cancer Center, Tucson, Arizona, USA.
(3)University of Arizona Ear Institute and University of Arizona College of 
Medicine, Tucson, Arizona, USA.
(4)University of Arizona Department of Medical Imaging, Tucson, Arizona, USA.
(5)University of Arizona Department of Pathology, Tucson, Arizona, USA.

OBJECTIVE: Nearly all radiated vestibular schwannomas (VS) have solid tissue 
remaining at the radiation bed. The viability and proliferation capacity of this 
tissue has never been objectively assessed. The goals of our study were to (1) 
determine whether this tissue retains the morphological and immunohistochemical 
features of VS and (2) evaluate whether the tissue is capable of proliferation 
in cell culture.
METHODS: Case history, magnetic resonance imaging (MRI), cell culture, 
histology, and immunohistochemistry.
RESULTS: We report the first case of a post-radiated, sporadic VS patient whose 
non-growing, residual MR-enhancing solid tissue was examined histologically and 
in cell culture. These cells were architecturally identical to non-radiated VS, 
had a Ki67 proliferative index similar to non-radiated sporadic and 
NF2-associated VS, were S100 positive, and grew in culture with kinetics 
comparable to non-radiated VS.
CONCLUSION: The long-term risk for delayed tumor growth and/or secondary 
malignancy in radiated VS patients is unknown. Because the average life span in 
the United States is nearly 80 years, patients should be informed that (1) 
residual VS cells are viable even when tumors appear to be non-growing on MRI, 
(2) post-radiation surveillance imaging is required indefinitely, and (3) 
radiation may incur more risk in those patients with life expectancy>20-25 
years.

© The Author(s) 2015.

DOI: 10.1177/0003489415588128
PMID: 26019282 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


709. World J Hepatol. 2015 May 28;7(9):1251-7. doi: 10.4254/wjh.v7.i9.1251.

Valproic acid and nonalcoholic fatty liver disease: A possible association?

Farinelli E(1), Giampaoli D(1), Cenciarini A(1), Cercado E(1), Verrotti A(1).

Author information:
(1)Edoardo Farinelli, David Giampaoli, Anja Cenciarini, Alberto Verrotti, 
Department of Pediatrics, University of Perugia, 06100 Perugia, Italy.

Valproic acid (VPA) is one of the most prescribed drugs in children with newly 
diagnosed epilepsy. Weight gain and obesity have been observed as side effects 
of VPA. These are often linked with other metabolic disturbances such as 
development of insulin resistance, dyslipidemia, metabolic syndrome (MetS) and 
non-alcoholic fatty liver disease or nonalcoholic fatty liver disease (NAFLD). 
NAFLD refers to a group of liver disorders with marked hepatic steatosis. It is 
associated with an increased incidence of cardiovascular diseases and overall 
reduced life expectancy. NAFLD occurs in 20%-25% of the general population and 
it is known to be the most common cause of chronic liver disease. NAFLD 
therefore represents a major public health issue worldwide. This study reviews 
and summarizes relevant literature that supports the existence of an association 
between VPA therapy and the development of NAFLD in children. Long-term 
VPA-therapy appears to be associated with an increased risk of developing NAFLD. 
Further studies are needed to clarify the pathogenic mechanisms that lie behind 
this association and to standardize the options for the use of this drug in 
overweight patients and in those with risks for developing MetS and NAFLD.

DOI: 10.4254/wjh.v7.i9.1251
PMCID: PMC4438499
PMID: 26019740


710. Hawaii J Med Public Health. 2015 May;74(5):179-84.

Insights in public health: a tale of two polities: health in Independent and 
American Samoa.

Fan VY(1), Le'au RF(1).

Author information:
(1)University of Hawai'i at Manoa, Office of Public Health Studies, Honolulu, 
HI.

Independent and American Samoa have a shared cultural, genetic, ethnolinguistic, 
and historical background but have been politically separated since 1899. In 
this essay, we examine the health of these two polities and identify two key 
health patterns that have emerged even as American Samoa has achieved a higher 
per capita income than Independent Samoa. Whereas the gender gap in life 
expectancy at birth has narrowed in Independent Samoa, this gap has not narrowed 
in American Samoa and its male life expectancy now lags behind that of 
Independent Samoa. Neonatal mortality rates in American Samoa are slightly 
higher than in Independent Samoa. These patterns may be linked to the higher 
rates of obesity and urbanization observed in American Samoa compared to 
Independent Samoa, as well as the differing political and institutional 
arrangements of the two polities. Limited data remains a persistent challenge to 
conducting analysis of public health in the Pacific islands, particularly in 
American Samoa.

PMCID: PMC4443619
PMID: 26019989 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


711. Prev Chronic Dis. 2015 May 28;12:E85. doi: 10.5888/pcd12.140488.

Self-reported sitting time in New York City adults, the Physical Activity and 
Transit Survey, 2010-2011.

Yi SS(1), Bartley KF(2), Firestone MJ(2), Lee KK(2), Eisenhower DL(2).

Author information:
(1)New York University School of Medicine, Department of Population Health, 550 
First Ave, VZN Suite No. 844, 8th Floor, New York, NY 10016. Email: 
stella.yi@nyumc.org.
(2)New York City Department of Health and Mental Hygiene, New York, New York.

INTRODUCTION: Recent studies have demonstrated the negative health consequences 
associated with extended sitting time, including metabolic disturbances and 
decreased life expectancy. The objectives of this study were to characterize 
sitting time in an urban adult population and assess the validity of a 
2-question method of self-reported sitting time.
METHODS: The New York City Health Department conducted the 2010-2011 Physical 
Activity and Transit Survey (N = 3,597); a subset of participants wore 
accelerometers for 1 week (n = 667). Self-reported sitting time was assessed 
from 2 questions on time spent sitting (daytime and evening hours). Sedentary 
time was defined as accelerometer minutes with less than 100 counts on valid 
days. Descriptive statistics were used to estimate the prevalence of sitting 
time by demographic characteristics. Validity of sitting time with 
accelerometer-measured sedentary time was assessed using Spearman's correlation 
and Bland-Altman techniques. All data were weighted to be representative of the 
New York City adult population based on the 2006-2008 American Community Survey.
RESULTS: Mean daily self-reported sitting time was 423 minutes; mean 
accelerometer-measured sedentary time was 490 minutes per day (r = 0.32, P < 
.001). The mean difference was 49 minutes per day (limits of agreement: -441 to 
343). Sitting time was higher in respondents at lower poverty and higher 
education levels and lower in Hispanics and people who were foreign-born.
CONCLUSION: Participants of higher socioeconomic status, who are not typically 
the focus of health disparities-related research, had the highest sitting times; 
Hispanics had the lowest levels. Sitting time may be accurately assessed by 
self-report with the 2-question method for population surveillance but may be 
limited in accurately characterizing individual-level behavior.

DOI: 10.5888/pcd12.140488
PMCID: PMC4454414
PMID: 26020549 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


712. PLoS One. 2015 May 28;10(5):e0125312. doi: 10.1371/journal.pone.0125312. 
eCollection 2015.

The Drosophila insulin receptor independently modulates lifespan and locomotor 
senescence.

Ismail MZ(1), Hodges MD(1), Boylan M(1), Achall R(1), Shirras A(1), Broughton 
SJ(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Biomedical and Life Sciences, Faculty of Health and Medicine, 
Lancaster University, Lancaster, LA1 4YQ, United Kingdom.

The Insulin/IGF-like signalling (IIS) pathway plays an evolutionarily conserved 
role in ageing. In model organisms reduced IIS extends lifespan and ameliorates 
some forms of functional senescence. However, little is known about IIS in 
nervous system ageing and behavioural senescence. To investigate this role in 
Drosophila melanogaster, we measured the effect of reduced IIS on senescence of 
two locomotor behaviours, negative geotaxis and exploratory walking. Two 
long-lived fly models with systemic IIS reductions (daGAL4/UAS-InRDN (ubiquitous 
expression of a dominant negative insulin receptor) and d2GAL/UAS-rpr (ablation 
of insulin-like peptide producing cells)) showed an amelioration of negative 
geotaxis senescence similar to that previously reported for the long-lived IIS 
mutant chico. In contrast, exploratory walking in daGAL4/UAS-InRDN and 
d2GAL/UAS-rpr flies declined with age similarly to controls. To determine the 
contribution of IIS in the nervous system to these altered senescence patterns 
and lifespan, the InRDN was targeted to neurons (elavGAL4/UAS-InRDN), which 
resulted in extension of lifespan in females, normal negative geotaxis 
senescence in males and females, and detrimental effects on age-specific 
exploratory walking behaviour in males and females. These data indicate that the 
Drosophila insulin receptor independently modulates lifespan and age-specific 
function of different types of locomotor behaviour. The data suggest that 
ameliorated negative geotaxis senescence of long-lived flies with systemic IIS 
reductions is due to ageing related effects of reduced IIS outside the nervous 
system. The lifespan extension and coincident detrimental or neutral effects on 
locomotor function with a neuron specific reduction (elavGAL4/UAS-InRDN) 
indicates that reduced IIS is not beneficial to the neural circuitry underlying 
the behaviours despite increasing lifespan.

DOI: 10.1371/journal.pone.0125312
PMCID: PMC4447345
PMID: 26020640 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: Competing Interests: The authors have declared 
that no competing interests exist.


713. Acta Ortop Mex. 2014 Sep-Oct;28(5):319-35.

[Modern tribology in total hip arthroplasty: pros and cons].

[Article in Spanish]

Gómez-García F.

The wear products and adverse reactions that occur on bearing surfaces represent 
one of the greatest challenges in prosthetic replacements, as the latter 
experience increasing demands due to the large number of young and older adult 
patients that have a long life expectancy and remarkable activity. The purpose 
of this review is to analyze the pros and cons of the new advances in the 
bearing components of the articular surfaces of current total hip 
arthroplasties. We also discuss the strategies used historically, their 
problems, results and the surgeon's role in prescribing the tribologic couple 
that best fits each patient's needs. We conclude with practical recommendations 
for the prescription and management of the latest articular couples for total 
hip arthroplasty.

PMID: 26021098 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


714. Gastroenterol Clin North Am. 2015 Jun;44(2):425-38. doi: 
10.1016/j.gtc.2015.02.011. Epub 2015 Mar 29.

Cost-Analyses Studies in Barrett's Esophagus: What Is Their Utility?

Gerson LB(1).

Author information:
(1)California Pacific Medical Center, 2340 Clay Street, 6th Floor, San 
Francisco, CA 94115, USA. Electronic address: GersonL@sutterhealth.org.

Approximately 10% to 15% of the chronic gastroesophageal reflux disease 
population is at risk for the development of Barrett's esophagus, particularly 
in the setting of other risk factors, including male gender, Caucasian race, age 
more than 50, and central obesity. The risk of cancer progression for patients 
with nondysplastic BE has been estimated to be approximately 0.2% to 0.5% per 
year. Given these low progression rates and the high cost of endoscopic 
surveillance, cost-effectiveness analyses in this area are useful to determine 
appropriate resource allocation.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.gtc.2015.02.011
PMID: 26021203 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


715. Gastroenterology. 2015 Sep;149(3):669-80; quiz e15-6. doi: 
10.1053/j.gastro.2015.05.025. Epub 2015 May 27.

Comparison of Liver Transplant-Related Survival Benefit in Patients With Versus 
Without Hepatocellular Carcinoma in the United States.

Berry K(1), Ioannou GN(2).

Author information:
(1)Research and Development, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, 
Seattle, Washington.
(2)Research and Development, Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System, 
Seattle, Washington; Division of Gastroenterology, Department of Medicine, 
Veterans Affairs Puget Sound Health Care System and University of Washington, 
Seattle, Washington. Electronic address: georgei@medicine.washington.edu.

Comment in
    Gastroenterology. 2015 Sep;149(3):531-4.
    Gastroenterology. 2016 Feb;150(2):533-4.
    Gastroenterology. 2016 Feb;150(2):534-5.
    Gastroenterology. 2016 Feb;150(2):535-7.

BACKGROUND & AIMS: Patients with T2 hepatocellular carcinoma (HCC) can obtain an 
exception that allows them to undergo liver transplantation with much lower 
actual Model for End-Stage Liver Disease (MELD) scores than patients without 
HCC. We compared patients who received liver transplants, with and without HCC, 
with regard to transplantation-related survival benefit.
METHODS: We modeled the post-transplantation survival of adult, first-time liver 
transplant recipients with HCC (n = 9135) or without (n = 25,890) from 2002 
through 2013 using Cox proportional hazards regression. We modeled waitlist 
survival of patients listed for transplantation with HCC (n = 15,605) or without 
(n = 85,229) using competing risks analysis and combined outcomes of death or 
liver failure (defined as MELD score ≥30). We used these survival models to 
calculate monthly transition probabilities and 5-year life expectancies. 
Survival benefit was calculated as the difference between post-transplantation 
and waitlist life expectancy.
RESULTS: The 5-year survival benefit increased with actual MELD score for 
patients with and without HCC, ranging from just a few months in patients with 
low MELD scores (ie, 6-8) to 4 years in patients with the highest MELD scores 
(ie, 36-40). The survival benefit of patients with HCC was similar to that of 
patients without HCC who had the same actual MELD score, irrespective of tumor 
burden or serum level of α-fetoprotein. However, because patients with HCC 
received liver transplants when they had a lower mean MELD score (13.3 ± 6.2) 
than patients without HCC (21.8 ± 8.0), a much lower mean 5-year survival 
benefit was achieved by providing liver transplants to patients with HCC (0.12 
years/patient) than patients without HCC (1.47 years/patient).
CONCLUSIONS: The HCC MELD exception policy has unintentionally resulted in a 
large reduction in transplantation-related survival benefit.

Copyright © 2015 AGA Institute. Published by Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1053/j.gastro.2015.05.025
PMID: 26021233 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


716. Hellenic J Cardiol. 2015;56 Suppl A:1-3.

The era of transcatheter valve therapy. Where are we?

Spargias K(1).

Author information:
(1)Transdermal Valve Department, Hygeia Hospital, Athens, Greece.

PMID: 26021336 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


717. Pediatr Clin North Am. 2015 Jun;62(3):743-66. doi:
10.1016/j.pcl.2015.03.010.  Epub 2015 Apr 11.

Spinal muscular atrophies.

Darras BT(1).

Author information:
(1)Division of Clinical Neurology, Department of Neurology, Boston Children's 
Hospital, 300 Longwood Avenue, Fegan 11, Boston, MA 02115, USA. Electronic 
address: basil.darras@childrens.harvard.edu.

Spinal muscular atrophies (SMAs) are hereditary degenerative disorders of lower 
motor neurons associated with progressive muscle weakness and atrophy. Proximal 
5q SMA is caused by decreased levels of the survival of motor neuron (SMN) 
protein and is the most common genetic cause of infant mortality. Its 
inheritance pattern is autosomal recessive, resulting from mutations involving 
the SMN1 gene on chromosome 5q13. Unlike other autosomal recessive diseases, the 
SMN gene has a unique structure (an inverted duplication) that presents 
potential therapeutic targets. Although there is currently no effective 
treatment of SMA, the field of translational research in this disorder is active 
and clinical trials are ongoing. Advances in the multidisciplinary supportive 
care of children with SMA also offer hope for improved life expectancy and 
quality of life.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Inc. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.pcl.2015.03.010
PMID: 26022173 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


718. Contrib Nephrol. 2015;185:56-65. doi: 10.1159/000380970. Epub 2015 May 19.

Klotho/FGF23 Axis in CKD.

Tsuchiya K(1), Nagano N, Nitta K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Medicine IV, Tokyo Women's Medical University, Tokyo, Japan.

The sequential bone disorders, serum parameter abnormalities and vascular 
calcification that are associated with chronic kidney disease (CKD) have come to 
be generally known as CKD-mineral bone disorder (MBD). Klotho, a causative 
protein of aging, and fibroblast growth factor 23 (FGF23), a bone-derived 
phosphaturic factor, have been reported to be involved in CKD-MBD, and their 
relationship to the pathophysiology of this disease is gradually being 
elucidated. Klotho functions as a cofactor of FGF receptors and has been 
reported to cause FGF23 action and specificity in the kidney. In addition, the 
presence of secreted Klotho in membrane protein fractions has been determined, 
and its specific actions are now garnering attention. FGF23, in cooperation with 
Klotho, inhibits phosphate reabsorption and vitamin D production at the kidney. 
Blood Klotho and FGF23 levels have been reported to increase beginning at the 
early stages of CKD, and these factors are receiving attention as new surrogate 
markers that are reported to be related to life expectancy. In this chapter, we 
summarize and outline the pathophysiology of Klotho and FGF23 in CKD-MBD as well 
as important points that are starting to influence clinical practice.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000380970
PMID: 26023015 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


719. Contrib Nephrol. 2015;185:124-31. doi: 10.1159/000380976. Epub 2015 May 19.

Cost-effectiveness of hemodialysis in Japan.

Takura T(1).

Author information:
(1)Osaka University Graduate School of Medicine, Osaka, Japan.

Evaluation of the socioeconomic value of medical intervention and establishment 
of the resources necessary for clinical practice are important for continued 
development of the medical system. The purpose of this study was to investigate 
the cost-effectiveness of maintenance hemodialysis (MHD) for end-stage kidney 
disease in Japan. There were two aims: a socioeconomic evaluation of online 
hemodiafiltration (HDF) in the medical system and an analysis of MHD with 
respect to the primary diseases of chronic kidney disease. We performed a 
cost-effectiveness analysis based on quality-adjusted life years (QALY) and the 
incremental cost-effectiveness ratio (ICER). QALY were estimated using the 
EuroQOL-5 dimension. Reimbursement for medical fees in the national health 
insurance system was used as an indicator of costs. In a comparative analysis of 
hemodialysis and online HDF, a total of 288 dialysis interventions were observed 
for 4 weeks in 3 clinics. Among the subjects, nine patients were assigned to the 
HDF group. Consequently, the incremental cost-effectiveness ratio of HDF to 
hemodialysis was 20,589 ΔUSD/ΔQALY. In a comparative analysis of diabetic 
nephropathy and glomerulonephritis, seventeen patients (with a total of 243 
dialysis sessions and a mean age of 63.2 ± 11.7 years) who underwent MHD for 
end-stage kidney disease (primary diseases: chronic glomerulonephritis [64.7%], 
diabetic nephropathy [35.3%]) were enrolled. After stratification for primary 
disease, the cost-effectiveness values for diabetic nephropathy were 88,774 ± 
27,801 USD/QALY for 1 month and 97,416 ± 36,156 USD/QALY for 36 months. These 
results suggest that HDF is a cost-effective therapy. Additionally, the 
cost-effectiveness after 36 months of observation increased mainly among 
diabetic nephropathy patients.

© 2015 S. Karger AG, Basel.

DOI: 10.1159/000380976
PMID: 26023021 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


720. J Natl Cancer Inst. 2015 May 28;107(8):djv139. doi: 10.1093/jnci/djv139.
Print  2015 Aug.

The real world effectiveness of hematopoietic transplant among elderly 
individuals with multiple myeloma.

Winn AN(1), Shah GL(2), Cohen JT(2), Lin PJ(2), Parsons SK(2).

Author information:
(1)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health (ANW, JTC, PJL) and 
Center for Health Solutions (SKP), Institute for Clinical Research and Health 
Policy Studies (ICRHPS), Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA; University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Department of Health Policy and Management, Chapel 
Hill, NC (ANW); Adult Bone Marrow Transplantation Service, Department of 
Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York NY (GS); Division of 
Hematology/Oncology, Tufts Medical Center, Boston MA (SKP). 
aaron.n.winn@gmail.com.
(2)Center for the Evaluation of Value and Risk in Health (ANW, JTC, PJL) and 
Center for Health Solutions (SKP), Institute for Clinical Research and Health 
Policy Studies (ICRHPS), Tufts Medical Center, Boston, MA; University of North 
Carolina at Chapel Hill, Department of Health Policy and Management, Chapel 
Hill, NC (ANW); Adult Bone Marrow Transplantation Service, Department of 
Medicine, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Cancer Center, New York NY (GS); Division of 
Hematology/Oncology, Tufts Medical Center, Boston MA (SKP).

BACKGROUND: Hematopoietic stem cell transplant (HSCT) is the preferred treatment 
for young patients with multiple myeloma (MM), but for older adults there is 
limited evidence on its effectiveness from clinical trials.
METHODS: We used the Surveillance, Epidemiology, and End Results (SEER)-Medicare 
database to identify individuals age 66 years and older with multiple myeloma 
(MM) who were diagnosed between 2000 and 2007. We used traditional multivariable 
analysis, propensity score-based analysis, coarsened exact matching, and an 
instrumental variable analysis to compare survival for individuals who did or 
did not receive an hematopoietic stem cell transplant. Survival was measured by 
Cox proportional hazard models. All statistical tests were two-sided.
RESULTS: Patients with MM receiving an HSCT were more likely to be white, 
married, younger, and have fewer comorbidities. Results from all analytic 
techniques consistently showed that HSCT statistically significantly improved 
survival, with hazard ratios (HRs) ranging from 0.531 to 0.608 (traditional 
multivariable analysis: HR = 0.582, 95% confidence interval [CI] = 0.49 to 0.69; 
propensity score analysis: HR = 0.572, 95% CI = 0.46 to 0.72; coarsened exact 
matching: HR = 0.608, 95% CI = 0.49 to 0.76; instrumental variable analysis: HR 
= 0.531, 95% CI = 0.36 to 0.78, all P values ≤ .001).
CONCLUSIONS: Overall survival has increased among patients with MM receiving 
HSCT. This finding was consistent across statistical methods, indicating 
robustness of our findings.

© The Author 2015. Published by Oxford University Press. All rights reserved. 
For Permissions, please e-mail: journals.permissions@oup.com.

DOI: 10.1093/jnci/djv139
PMCID: PMC4554189
PMID: 26023094 [Indexed for MEDLINE]721. Sci Rep. 2015 May 29;5:10652. doi: 10.1038/srep10652.

Polyphyly of nuclear lamin genes indicates an early eukaryotic origin of the 
metazoan-type intermediate filament proteins.

Kollmar M(1).

Author information:
(1)Group Systems Biology of Motor Proteins, Department of NMR-based Structural 
Biology, Max-Planck-Institute for Biophysical Chemistry, Göttingen, Germany.

The nuclear lamina is a protein meshwork associated with the inner side of the 
nuclear envelope contributing structural, signalling and regulatory functions. 
Here, I report on the evolution of an important component of the lamina, the 
lamin intermediate filament proteins, across the eukaryotic tree of life. The 
lamins show a variety of protein domain and sequence motif architectures beyond 
the classical α-helical rod, nuclear localisation signal, immunoglobulin domain 
and CaaX motif organisation, suggesting extension and adaptation of functions in 
many species. I identified lamin genes not only in metazoa and Amoebozoa as 
previously described, but also in other opisthokonts including Ichthyosporea and 
choanoflagellates, in oomycetes, a sub-family of Stramenopiles, and in Rhizaria, 
implying that they must have been present very early in eukaryotic evolution if 
not even the last common ancestor of all extant eukaryotes. These data 
considerably extend the current perception of lamin evolution and have important 
implications with regard to the evolution of the nuclear envelope.

DOI: 10.1038/srep10652
PMCID: PMC4448529
PMID: 26024016 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


722. Environ Health Perspect. 2015 Dec;123(12):1337-44. doi: 10.1289/ehp.1409034.
 Epub 2015 May 29.

Reducing Periconceptional Methylmercury Exposure: Cost-Utility Analysis for a 
Proposed Screening Program for Women Planning a Pregnancy in Ontario, Canada.

Gaskin J(1), Rennie C, Coyle D.

Author information:
(1)Epidemiology and Community Medicine, University of Ottawa, Ottawa, Ontario, 
Canada.

BACKGROUND: The assessment of neurodevelopmental effects in children associated 
with prenatal methylmercury exposure, from contaminated fish and seafood in the 
maternal diet, has recently been strengthened by adjustment for the negative 
confounding resulting from co-exposure to beneficial polyunsaturated fatty acids 
(PUFAs).
OBJECTIVES: We aimed to determine the cost-effectiveness of a periconceptional 
screening program of blood mercury concentration for women planning to become 
pregnant in Ontario, Canada. Fish intake recommendations would be provided for 
those found to have blood mercury levels above the intervention threshold.
METHODS: Analysis was conducted using a combined decision tree/Markov model to 
compare the proposed screening intervention with standard care from a societal 
perspective over a lifetime horizon. We used the national blood mercury 
distributions of women 20-49 years of age reported in the Canadian Health 
Measures Survey from 2009 through 2011 to determine the cognitive deficits 
associated with prenatal methylmercury exposure for successful planned 
pregnancies. Outcomes modeled included the loss in quality of life and the 
remedial education costs. Value of information analysis was conducted to assess 
the underlying uncertainty around the model results and to identify which 
parameters contribute most to this uncertainty.
RESULTS: The incremental cost per quality-adjusted life year (QALY) gained for 
the proposed screening intervention was estimated to be Can$18,051, and the 
expected value for a willingness to pay of Can$50,000/QALY to be Can$0.61.
CONCLUSIONS: Our findings suggest that the proposed periconceptional blood 
mercury screening program for women planning a pregnancy would be highly 
cost-effective from a societal perspective. The results of a value of 
information analysis confirm the robustness of the study's conclusions.

DOI: 10.1289/ehp.1409034
PMCID: PMC4671232
PMID: 26024213 [Indexed for MEDLINE]

Conflict of interest statement: The authors declare they have no actual or 
potential competing financial interests.


723. Semin Respir Crit Care Med. 2015 Jun;36(3):422-32. doi:
10.1055/s-0035-1549455.  Epub 2015 May 29.

Ambient particulate matter air pollution and cardiopulmonary diseases.

Thurston G(1), Lippmann M(1).

Author information:
(1)Nelson Institute of Environmental Medicine, New York University School of 
Medicine, Tuxedo, New York.

Population exposures to ambient outdoor particulate matter (PM) air pollution 
have been assessed to represent a major burden on global health. Ambient PM is a 
diverse class of air pollution, with characteristics and health implications 
that can vary depending on a host of factors, including a particle's original 
source of emission or formation. The penetration of inhaled particles into the 
thorax is dependent on their deposition in the upper respiratory tract during 
inspiration, which varies with particle size, flow rate and tidal volume, and in 
vivo airway dimensions. All of these factors can be quite variable from person 
to person, depending on age, transient illness, cigarette smoke and other 
short-term toxicant exposures that cause transient bronchoconstriction, and 
occupational history associated with loss of lung function or cumulative injury. 
The adverse effects of inhaled PM can result from both short-term (acute) and 
long-term (chronic) exposures to PM, and can range from relatively minor, such 
as increased symptoms, to very severe effects, including increased risk of 
premature mortality and decreased life expectancy from long-term exposure. 
Control of the most toxic PM components can therefore provide major health 
benefits, and can help guide the selection of the most human health optimal air 
quality control and climate change mitigation policy measures. As such, a 
continued improvement in our understanding of the nature and types of PM that 
are most dangerous to health, and the mechanism(s) of their respective health 
effects, is an important public health goal.

Thieme Medical Publishers 333 Seventh Avenue, New York, NY 10001, USA.

DOI: 10.1055/s-0035-1549455
PMID: 26024349 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


724. Eur J Intern Med. 2015 Jul;26(6):385-91. doi: 10.1016/j.ejim.2015.05.003.
Epub  2015 May 27.

Clinical profile and main comorbidities of Spanish adults with Down syndrome.

Real de Asua D(1), Quero M(2), Moldenhauer F(3), Suarez C(4).

Author information:
(1)Adult Down Syndrome Outpatient Clinic, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Fundación de Investigación Biomédica, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, 
C/Diego de León 62, 28006 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
diego.realdeasua@gmail.com.
(2)Adult Down Syndrome Outpatient Clinic, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Fundación de Investigación Biomédica, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, 
C/Diego de León 62, 28006 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
miriam.quero@hotmail.com.
(3)Adult Down Syndrome Outpatient Clinic, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Fundación de Investigación Biomédica, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, 
C/Diego de León 62, 28006 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
fernando.moldenhauer@salud.madrid.org.
(4)Adult Down Syndrome Outpatient Clinic, Department of Internal Medicine, 
Fundación de Investigación Biomédica, Hospital Universitario de La Princesa, 
C/Diego de León 62, 28006 Madrid, Spain. Electronic address: 
carmen.suarez@salud.madrid.org.

Comment in
    Eur J Intern Med. 2015 Jul;26(6):375-6.

BACKGROUND: The life expectancy of adults with Down syndrome (DS) has 
significantly increased in the last decades. We aim to describe the main 
demographic and clinical characteristics of a cohort of adults with DS, and 
analyse their differences according to age and gender groups.
METHODS: Cross-sectional study of 144 adults with DS from the outpatient clinic 
of a tertiary care hospital in Madrid, Spain, recruited between February 2012 
and March 2013. Demographic data (age, gender, living situation, caregivers, and 
working situation), clinical conditions, prior medications, and laboratory data 
were measured and compared between groups.
RESULTS: Adults with DS were 35±12 years old (range 17-65), and 51% were males. 
Most subjects lived with their families (112, 78%), and parents were the main 
caregivers in 73% of cases. However, older adults with DS lived more frequently 
in residential facilities. Each subject presented an average of 5±2 clinical 
problems. Eye (117 adults, 81%), skin (86, 60%), thyroid (81, 56%), 
gastrointestinal (73, 51%), and psychopathological disorders (58, 40%) were 
amongst the most frequent clinical conditions of adults with DS. Cataracts (14, 
61%), keratoconus (4, 17%), dementia (11, 48%), and seizures (6, 26%) were more 
frequent amongst individuals with DS over 50 years (p<0.001 for the 
comparisons). No relevant differences were found between genders. The 
medications most frequently prescribed were levothyroxine (70 subjects, 48.6%), 
vitamin D (50, 34.7%), antidepressants (32, 22%), and antipsychotics (31, 
21.5%).
CONCLUSIONS: Adults with DS present a wide spectrum of potentially treatable 
medical conditions, making specially-trained multidisciplinary teams a dire need 
for this population.

Copyright © 2015 European Federation of Internal Medicine. Published by Elsevier 
B.V. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.ejim.2015.05.003
PMID: 26025226 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


725. Plant Sci. 2015 Jul;236:214-22. doi: 10.1016/j.plantsci.2015.04.014. Epub
2015  Apr 24.

Three WRKY transcription factors additively repress abscisic acid and 
gibberellin signaling in aleurone cells.

Zhang L(1), Gu L(1), Ringler P(1), Smith S(1), Rushton PJ(2), Shen QJ(3).

Author information:
(1)School of Life Sciences, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, NV 89154, USA.
(2)Texas A&M AgriLife Research and Extension Center, Dallas, TX 75252, USA.
(3)School of Life Sciences, University of Nevada, Las Vegas, NV 89154, USA. 
Electronic address: jeffery.shen@unlv.edu.

Members of the WRKY transcription factor superfamily are essential for the 
regulation of many plant pathways. Functional redundancy due to duplications of 
WRKY transcription factors, however, complicates genetic analysis by allowing 
single-mutant plants to maintain wild-type phenotypes. Our analyses indicate 
that three group I WRKY genes, OsWRKY24, -53, and -70, act in a partially 
redundant manner. All three showed characteristics of typical WRKY transcription 
factors: each localized to nuclei and yeast one-hybrid assays indicated that 
they all bind to W-boxes, including those present in their own promoters. 
Quantitative real time-PCR (qRT-PCR) analyses indicated that the expression 
levels of the three WRKY genes varied in the different tissues tested. Particle 
bombardment-mediated transient expression analyses indicated that all three 
genes repress the GA and ABA signaling in a dosage-dependent manner. Combination 
of all three WRKY genes showed additive antagonism of ABA and GA signaling. 
These results suggest that these WRKY proteins function as negative 
transcriptional regulators of GA and ABA signaling. However, different 
combinations of these WRKY genes can lead to varied strengths in suppression of 
their targets.

Copyright © 2015 Elsevier Ireland Ltd. All rights reserved.

DOI: 10.1016/j.plantsci.2015.04.014
PMID: 26025535 [Indexed for MEDLINE]


726. Cancer Immunol Immunother. 2015 Jun;64(6):655-63. doi: 
10.1007/s00262-015-1707-3. Epub 2015 May 30.

Targeted treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer with 
sipuleucel-T immunotherapy.

Mulders PF(1), De Santis M, Powles T, Fizazi K.

Author information:
(1)Department of Urology, Radboud University Nijmegen Medical Centre, P.O. Box 
9101, 6500HB, Nijmegen, The Netherlands, p.mulders@uro.umcn.nl.

CONTEXT: Prostate cancer remains highly prevalent and has a poor clinical 
outcome once metastatic. Sipuleucel-T is an autologous cellular immunotherapy 
approved for the treatment of metastatic castration-resistant prostate cancer 
(mCRPC). Sipuleucel-T treatment extends survival but is independent of 
traditional short-term markers of treatment response observed with chemotherapy 
and contemporary hormonal treatments. Therefore, it is essential that clinicians 
understand the mechanism of action of sipuleucel-T and how this can translate in 
the clinic.
OBJECTIVE: This article aims to summarize the current knowledge of sipuleucel-T 
therapy and its effects in mCRPC.
EVIDENCE ACQUISITION: Relevant publications describing sipuleucel-T clinical 
data and information relating to immunotherapies were identified.
EVIDENCE SYNTHESIS: Treatment with sipuleucel-T extends survival, with side 
effects being usually mild or moderate and manageable within the outpatient 
setting. The long-term immune responses generated by sipuleucel-T correlate with 
a survival benefit. Sipuleucel-T shows a greater magnitude of clinical benefit 
when used in patients earlier in the mCRPC setting.
CONCLUSIONS: Sipuleucel-T stimulates long-lived immune responses that translate 
